- the alumni magazine of washington and lee university JULY 1972

>

2

a ee.

9
RO TIT

y
wer pager

POR TR

»

 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 47, Number 5, July 1972

William C. Washburn 740.000.000.000. ccc eseeeteeneees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68............0..cccee Contributing Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter... cece Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Whe Leyiiarr, Baa .5...-o wesc iccisch clay creel ]
Commencement 1972 ...0....ccc cece seestceedieeeutaenses 4
The Seventh Deadly Sim 200.00... ce eeeeee eens 6
wo RetivrGmenty o..i5.......esecseceseeeteyete oe 7
Compton Heads Alumni ........0..00.00c cece 8
The Richmond Trophy ..............0...0cceeeeeee 10
Graduating Sons of Alumni «0.0.0.0... eee. 12
Largest Freshman Class ...0...00.00..0..0:cccceeeeeeeees 13
Coy DWT TI anions ae ceeeesgutelsinttabevenescercsneees ss 19
NY WE IVs eo cies eater apes A ae scss yr diens 23
Dr. Thomas Retires 20.0000... cceececeeeeeteetteeeee 25
AMHR SW WS io noes... esl Seep gece pcedee ae tues 26
I TN i penn ecns pe uveav pein dates diedia aera 27
DH AGRON IOI ig. isan ss acl ca cesgcebevadedetet losis tussvbees 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

A. CHRISTIAN ComPTON, ’50, Richmond, Va.
President

Urton BEALL, ’51, Tyler, Texas
Vice President

T. Ha Crarkg, ’38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WAsHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

RicHARD D. Haynes, ’58, Dallas, Texas
WituiaM H. Hitter, ’38, Chicago, Ill.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, JR., 58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce Houeu, III, 59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
"THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. ALVIN PuivpoTt, ’45, Lexington, N.C.
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, 755, New Orleans, La.
EVERETT ‘TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the cover: Our cover portrait is of Dr. James
Graham Leyburn, who retired in June from formal
academic life at Washington and Lee. Dr. Leyburn
came to Washington and Lee in 1947 as dean of the
University, but, finding the classroom irresistable,
he chose full-time teaching in 1955. His beneficial
impact on Washington and Lee was far-reaching
and permanent. For an account of his contributions
to this University, to scholarship, and to the art of

teaching, see the opposite page.

1

 

 

 

by Robert S. Keefe

-

Dr. Leyburn descends the slopes

+ of Mount Olympus-an inch or two

~ >

rr. 4
#. »
bite ~
a.- »
a ~
@ >
*
|
' -
boas ae.
vy” >
s/

Dr. Leyburn at his final commencement.

oie’ July, 1972

 

A liberal education, James Graham Leyburn once
said, is not one in which ‘quality credits and quantity
credits’ are accumulated for their own sake, thrust
upon students in a cafeteria-style serving line, and dis-
tributed according to some arbitrary pattern, with
copies for all the filing cabinets that clutter administra-
tive offices.

Rather, he said, it is a process whose single goal must
be to encourage the student to learn for himself, on his
Own initiative, “to satisfy his own consuming curiosity’ ’—
in short, “to stir the minds of our men to consider
ideas.”’

And if rules are to be useful at all, he said, “they
should be directed toward reflective—and, if possible,
toward creative—thinking in a field.”

That was a quarter of a century ago. Dr. Leyburn
offered those bold challenges—which were a part of what
became known as the Leyburn Plan—when he was the
brand-new dean at Washington and Lee University,
coming to Lexington after 22 years in the sociology
department at Yale University.

At 70, Dr. Leyburn retired in June from formal
academic life to his ancestral farm “Spring Hill,” near
Martinsburg, W. Va.

When in 1955, he found he had to choose between
continuing to teach and continuing to serve as dean,
he chose the former, and became chairman of the
sociology and anthropology department—with those
goals, outlined in that 10-point Leyburn Plan, only
partly accomplished.

“The subsequent history of Washington and Lee
has been, in large measure, the history of implementing
the Leyburn Plan,” said President Robert E. R. Huntley
—who was a sophomore in 1947 when Leyburn arrived.

Dr. Leyburn’s goal was, as he put it, that “everyone
by common consent would name us first in the list of
ereat teaching universities, as everyone tends to name
Harvard first in any list of great research universities.”
The best outside measure of his success came in 1956,
when a national poll of educators, conducted by the
Chicago Tribune, listed Washington and Lee as the
sixth-best liberal arts men’s institution in the United
States.

“I think many aspiring students mistakenly go to

]

certain universities because they have heard the names
of certain great research men and because they assume
these men will be great teachers,’ he wrote in his
explanation of the Leyburn Plan. “They might have
done better to go to a smaller college where the em-
phasis is upon teaching.”

The standards he set for the faculty as dean were
no less demanding than those he set for his students
as teacher. “I think we have a right,” he said in 1947,
“to ask every member of our (faculty) to achieve pre-
eminence.” And for his part, he promised to “leave no
stone unturned” in striving to make Washington and
Lee “the one institution in this country which no faculty
member would think of leaving.”

As dean, he saw a crying need for more emphasis on
the fine arts (Washington and Lee offered just two
courses in the field at the time); there are now a depart-
ment of art and a department of music and drama, with
a total of 57 courses taught by eight faculty members.
Similarly a department of philosophy, envisioned in the
Leyburn Plan not merely “another discipline” but rather
as “the integrating factor of the whole curriculum,’ was
established.

So too have comprehensive examinations been im-
plemented, requiring each student in particular fields
to think out for himself the realtionships and implica-
tions of all his undergraduate work in that field. So
too has a prestigious plan for undertaking independent
honors work requiring a substantial original thesis. But
perhaps the dramatic climax came in 1968, when the
University’s faculty completely redesigned the curricu-
lum, the distribution requirments, and the academic
calendar—much along the lines of the Leyburn Plan,
then 21 years old.

For Dean Leyburn, the 1955 decision to return full-
time to scholarship and teaching meant simply a change
in direction, not in intensity. He was already the author
of two important books written while he was at Yale—
Handbook of Ethnography and the classic Haitian
People, still used in colleges throughout the world,
revised in 1966 and republished by Yale, winner of the
Anisfield-Wolf Award as the best book in race relations
when originally published.

In 1962 his delightful and definitive social history,

The Scotch-Irish, was published. Other books and articles
continue to come regularly, and he plans to research
and write a new social history in retirement.

He is a widely respected concert pianist, and in fact
one of his principal worries about leaving for West
Virginia is whether his Steinway grand will make it
unscathed. He most admires Beethoven, Mozart and
Bach; but he is known as an aficionado of Gilbert and
Sullivan as well.

Dr. Leyburn may be one of the few Americans today
who has chosen not to admit a television set into his
home. “There is not enough time,” he explains: If he
had a ‘TV set, something else—playing the piano, read-
ing good and important books—would have to be sacri-
ficed, and he is simply unwilling.

Books. When he moved from New Haven to Lex-
ington 25 years ago, he had three tons of them—literally.
And now, he has given 2,000 volumes to friends and to
Washington and Lee’s library, hundreds more to stu-
dents and the sociology department—and still had to
arrange to take four tons to Spring Hill Farm.

What does he read? History, classical literature, fiction;
in French, German, Latin and Greek, not to mention
English. Which books and authors have influenced him
most, have changed his mind? Henry Adams (Education;
Mont-Saint Michel); Toynbee’s Study of History;
Dostoyevsky; Shakespeare... ‘My tastes,” he acknowl-
edges, ‘are fairly catholic.”

His love of the language is legendary, and so is his
rare talent for creating beautifully formed and evocative
prose. Students often keep papers he has returned to
them for the comments he has written, always in pointed
good humor.

Most of all, he says, he will miss teaching—‘“‘my life’s
joy, the great fun of sharpening one’s mind against
those of students.”

First, after settling on the farm—which produces, in
addition to cattle and supporting crops, a significant
portion of the watercress consumed in the East—he plans
to travel to New York and Washington for concerts and
the theatre, catching up on cultural currents in those
cities, and researching his planned new book.

Obviously, he is looking forward immensely to that
farm; he acquired it 35 years ago from an uncle and

WeL

 

Dr. Leyburn, never missing a chance to teach, lectures on African culture in the Bookstore.

has summered there; it has been passed down through
the family since his mother’s ancestors originally pur-
chased it from Lord Fairfax in 1732.

The old cliche has it that the best measure of a man
is the response from those he challenges most severely.
If that is so, then James Leyburn is perhaps unique;
he has been revered by his students from the day he
arrived.

When he taught ancient history, his final lecture each
semester included a moving recital of Socrates’ death
speech. And every semester, almost by unwritten tradi-
tion, his students gave him a standing ovation.

His bearing and features, startingly classical, and his
full head of white, white hair generated affectionate
comment, and one Christmas some student admirers

July, 1972

gave him a door plaque which he immediately put up
outside his stately antebellum home at 30 University
Place. It read “Mount Olympus.”

Three years ago, some of his graduates honored him
with the “Lynchburg Citation,” the major award given
independently by Washington and Lee’s alumni. Perhaps
as effectively as an average Leyburn lecture would sum
up a knotty problem in sociology or history or literature,
it illuminates the man’s career.

“With enthusiasm, dignity, humor, and wisdom,” the
citation reads, “he personifies the great teacher, the
compleat scholar, wholly committed to the mind’s noblest
adventures—finding his pleasure and taking his reward
in leading others to know the exhilaration of truth,
knowledge, and understanding.”

,

University confers 322 degrees;
three alumni, Miss Welty honored

Degrees were conferred on 322 men
June 1 in graduation ceremonies held
on Washington and Lee’s historic front
campus. By custom the principal speaker
was the President of the University, Ro-
bert E. R. Huntley.

Honorary degrees were awarded to
three distinguished alumni — John Bell
Towill, ’29L, Augusta, Ga., attorney and
civic leader; Robert M. White II, ’38, edi-
tor and publisher of the Mexico, Mo.,
Ledger, and Dr. Lloyd E. Worner, ’40,
president of Colorado College—and on
Eudora Welty, the prominent Southern
author, whose The Optimist’s Daughter
has just been published to near-unani-
mous raves.

Juris doctor degrees, the equivalent of
the outmoded LL.B., were conferred on
60 students in the University’s School of
Law.

From the School of Commerce, Econo-
mics and Politics, 29 students were pre-
sented the Bachelor of Science degree and
53 the Bachelor of Arts in economics or
politics.

The College awarded two Bachelor of
Science degrees with special attainments
in chemistry, 34 general Bachelor of Sci-
ence degrees, and 145 Bachelor of Arts
degrees.

In his remarks, President Huntley
spoke of mutual  expectations—those
Washington and Lee had (and has) for

her students and those her students
maintain for Washington and Lee.

“A major part of our expectation about
you,” he told the graduates and their
families and friends under the brilliantly
clear and cool blue skies, “has been that
you would be apt students, that you
would find joy in this hard work of
learning, and that in that joy and in that

learning would occur a kind of quiet ex-

4

citement”’ which itself would lead to con-
tinuing development of intellectual dis-
cipline.

“And I believe we have expected of
each other that we be gentlemen,” Presi-
dent Huntley continued.

“These expectations have been lofty;
of course they have not all been fulfilled.

“But I think we should make a seri-
ous mistake if, in regret over disappoint-
ment, we fail to celebrate the countless
ways in which you and all of us have suc-
ceeded—and we would make an even
more serious mistake if we now, or ever,
lower the quality of our expectations.

‘Indeed it is well to note failures, and
essential to profit from experience—but
it is even more essential to Washington
and Lee and to you in your lives from
this day on that you retain and enhance
the nobility of your own purposes, and
that you have the kind of faith in your
fellow man which is characterized by a
trust that is not dissipiated into cynicism
by disappointment.”

In his remarks as president of the
student body, Stephen W. Robinson, a
European history graduate from Alexan-
dria, charged some of his fellow students
with a “frightening fear of responsibil-

= 9?

ity’ that, he said, endangers ‘the at--

mosphere and quality” of the Washington
and Lee education.

In too many instances students have
“failed to accept their responsibilities as
members of a community governed by
principles of honor,” he declared. Equally
dangerous, he warned, is the current
tendency toward “fragmentation” among
students, geographical and spiritual.

Far from pessimistic about the Univer-
sity’s strengths or its future, however, Mr.
Robinson said “W&L is, and always has
been, a place for men to obtain an excel-

lent education, and I feel this tradition
will be continued. The University has a
dedicated faculty, many talented students,
and fine physical facilities. There is no
reason that academic excellence cannot
be perpetuated at Washington and Lee.”

The challenge to current students and
those who will enter Washington and
Lee in years ahead, Mr. Robinson said,
is to strengthen once again the Univer-
sity’s historical “atmosphere of mutual
trust, its feeling of cooperation, and its
spirit of union.”

Valedictorian of the undergraduate
class was Lloyd M. Goodman of Norfolk,
a B.A. graduate in French. With a 3.8
grade-point ratio on a 4.0 scale, Goodman
received his diploma summa cum laude.
Other summa cum laude graduates were
David D. Collins of Front Royal, Va.,
B.A., and H. Lockhart Handley of Ar-
cadia, Calif., and James A. Philpott of
Lexington, N.C., both J.D.

Robert E. Munson of Hagerstown, Md.,
who died of leukemia the week he was to
have been graduated last December, was
voted the Algernon Sydney Sullivan
award by the faculty. His B.A. degree was
conferred posthumously as well. The Sul-
livan award, the most distinguished honor
of its type at Washington and Lee, is
given the student with an exceptional re-
cord of unselfish public service.

The citation read with Miss Welty’s
honorary degree described The Optimist’s
Daughter and Losing Batiles, her most
recent novels, as “her finest and most
generous gifts. . . . Their clearest tones
celebrate the mystery and uncertain joy
of man’s existence. Her long, full career,
marked by a dedication rare in any age,
is one that has grown steadily, and in
recent years has blossomed wondrously.”

Mr. White, a vigorous champion of

Wel

——,

<i

 

 

President Huntley (center) with honorary degree recipients, Mr. White, Mr. Towill,

Dr. Worner, Miss Welty.

freedom of information, was cited for his
“demonstrated versatility, talent, and
prodigious capacity for hard work.
He has enhanced immeasurably the stan-
dards of journalistic practice and helped
protect the public’s right to know.”

Mr. Towill’s citation noted that he has
been “instrumental in inaugurating rep-
resentative government in his community
and in leading Augusta and its metropoli-
tan area to greater growth economically,
socially and educationally.”

Dr. Worner was cited for his “truly
remarkable commitments of energy, tal-
ent and leadership. . For eight years
[at Colorado] he charted sound educa-
tional innovation as academic dean. [His
selection as president in 1963] was greeted
by most enthusiastic acclaim among fac-
ulty, students, alumni and fellow educa-

July, 1972

 

tors. The applause has not subsided.”

Miss Welty was born in Jackson, Miss.,
which is still her home. In May the Na-
tional Institute of Arts and Letters award-
ed her its Gold Medal for Optimist’s
Daughter.

Three years ago Shenandoah, Washing-
ton and Lee’s literary quarterly, published
a tribute to Miss Welty, which included
contributions from such writers as Robert
Penn Warren, Joyce Carol Oates and
Reynolds Price, with a short essay by
Miss Welty on Jane Austen.

Mr. White, a 1938 graduate of the
University, has been national president
of Sigma Delta Chi, the professional jour-
nalists’ society, and has twice received its
Distinguished Service to Journalism
award. He was editor and president of
the New York Herald Tribune from 1959

until 1961, during which time the paper
won a number of distinguished journa-
lism awards including a Pulitzer Prize
for the quality of its local reporting.

Under his ownership the Mexico Ledger
has won 57 awards from the Missouri
Press Association, 16 in the National
Better Newspaper Contest, and 15 from
the Inland Daily Press Association.

Mr. Towill is a 1929 graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee and is a partner in the
Augusta law firm of Hull, Towill, Nor-
man, Barrett & Johnson. He was founder
and president of the Home Federal Sav-
ings and Loan Association of Augusta
and is active in civic and charitable acti-
vities there. He helped organize a reform
slate which defeated the powerful ‘“‘Crack-
er Machine” in Augusta and Richmond
County after a hard campaign in 1946.

Dr. Worner entered Washington and
Lee in 1936, but after recovering from a
serious injury sustained in a varsity la-
crosse game he transferred to Colorado
College, where he was elected president
of the student body. He earned graduate
degrees from the University of Missouri
in American history, and began teaching
at Colorado in 1946.

As a professor he helped establish an
honor code at the college modeled on the
century-old honor system at Washington
and Lee. He served as dean of the college
from 1955 until he was named ninth
president of the institution in 1963, the
first Colorado alumnus to be elected.

Maj. Gen. Richard L. Irby, the newly
inaugurated superintendent of Virginia
Military Institute, was the speaker at Re-
serve Officer Training Corps commission-
ing exercises, held graduation morning in
the Lee Chapel. Thirty men were awarded
commissions as second lieutenants in the
United States Army and Army Reserve.

 

 

 

 

 

The
Seventh
Deadly

Sin

Commencement exercises began with the traditional
Baccalaureate Sermon, delivered this year by Dr. James
G. Leyburn, who retired in June after 25 years at Wash-
ington and Lee as dean of the University (from 1946 to
1955) and professor of sociology.

In his “final remarks,” Dr. Leyburn challenged those
who are “not unmindful of the future’ to reject what
he termed “the comfortable lethargy of sloth’ and
instead to “‘assume the cares of public responsibility”
with humanity and spiritual kindliness.

In his sermon he defined sloth as “not merely the
sin of doing nothing. It is,” he said, “the worse fault
of treating people as impersonal statistics.’ And _ al-
though no generation “has been so vividly aware of
the demonic forces at work in the world—war, racial
prejudice, cruelty and injustice, for example’’—the temp-
tation is great, he said, to commit the sin of sloth by
“merely denouncing the evils in restraining oneself from
practicing them, but then of accommodating oneself
to their persistence in society.”

“One reason many of us yield to sloth,” he declared,
“is that too many problems are constantly presented to
us by the media. [This can lead to] another variety of
sloth: a moral weariness which leads us to the ration-
alization that since we cannot alter the enormous evils
we need do nothing at all... Perhaps, we need as
an antidote to our spiritual sloth less tolerance and
more righteous indignation at wrong and injustice.”

But, Dr. Leyburn concluded, “‘it is appropriate that
Washington and Lee have as its motto words that state
an attitude toward life and a moral imperative. Non
incautus futuri—not unmindful of the future. That 1s
the proper antidote to sloth.”

Dr. Leyburn’s retirement—and his farewell address—
generated considerable editorial comment in the Vir-
ginia press. In a tribute titled “Leyburn: Educator’s
Educator,” the Lynchburg Advance declared he “may
well have been the most powerful and salutary influence
at Washington and Lee University in this century.”
The Norfolk Virginian-Pilot stated: “ “The Leyburn
Spirit’ inspired a generation of students and brought
W&L to the front rank of small men’s schools.... At
70, he is retiring from teaching. But not, one may be
sure, to inertia. Washington and Lee is stronger for

6

 

his contribution; it will miss his talents.’”’ The Roanoke
World-News commented: “Rarely have a man and an
institution been so synonymous. For hundreds of W&L
students Dr. Leyburn provided the first embodiment of
excitement over ideas. He was a delicious contagion.
[His Baccalaureate remarks are characterized by] an
orderliness and high purpose that is vintage Leyburn.
They will be old-fashioned only if and when people
cease to live by them.”

Copies of “The Seventh Deadly Sin” are available
without charge to alumni who write the Office of Public
Information.

"

Dr. Leyburn delivers baccalaureate sermon.

or“:

Two other unusually dedicated mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee com-
munity retired at the end of the academic
year—Dr. R. Winter Royston, professor
of mathematics, and Miss Martha Cullip-
her, reference librarian in Cyrus Hall
McCormick Library.

Dr. Royston was described by President
Huntley in a short tribute at graduation
as having “brought to this University
special qualities of service and dedication
which have blessed Washington and Lee
beyond measure.”

Washington and Lee is not, however,
losing Dr. Royston’s devotion—or his serv-
ices. He has been named special consul-
tant in the Office of the Dean of the
College. In his new capacity Dr. Royston
will continue to direct and coordinate the
University’s class-scheduling operations—
a formidable challenge: there are almost
750 sections of 623 individual courses at
the University.

As he has for years past, he will also
design computer programs to aid in stu-
dent registration and other administrative
services, and will continue to perform
complex and extremely valuable data
analysis for a number of administrative
officers at Washington and Lee. Among
the innovations Dr. Royston has intro-
duced at the University is a series of
programs to compile projections useful
to the admissions office and the under-
graduate deans. He was among the first
to design programs to construct in-depth
profiles of individual men based on the
records of thousands of current and past
W&L students. Beyond that, Dr. Royston
continues to prepare and execute pro-
grams to analyze the factors which stu-
dents indicate influence them in their
choice of college—a valuable device in re-
cruiting.

July, 1972

Dr. Royston became involved in the
complex process of class scheduling—then
done entirely by hand—43 years ago, as
soon as he was appointed to the faculty,
and has been a member of the Faculty
Committee on Registration and Class
Schedules ever since it was formed.

He became a member of the Faculty
Committee on Student Financial Aid in
1952, and on his retirement this year the
Committee presented him with a cita-
tion of gratitude for his immeasurable
contributions to it. ““To a greater extent
than many know,” one administrator who
has worked with Dr. Royston for many
years has observed, “it is to him that we
owe much of the progress Washington
and Lee had made in providing efficient
record-keeping and extraordinarily useful
data analysis.”

A native of Clarke County, Va., Dr.
Royston is a Washington and Lee gra-
duate, holding both the A.B. (1923) and
the M.A. (1931). He holds an additional
master’s degree and his doctorate from
the University of Michigan. He joined
the W&L mathematics faculty in 1929
and was promoted to full professor in
1956. A Navy veteran, Dr. Royston has
been married to the former Miss Virginia
Fritts 38 years.

As reference librarian, Miss Cullipher’s
“skillful and tireless devotion to the needs
of others endeared her forever as a belov-
ed member of the Washington and Lee
family,” President Huntley said in recog-
nizing her at graduation. For 24 years,
students relied on her limitless knowledge
of McCormick’s resources—and on that
good smile and faithful, genuine humor
(which, it is said, carried many, many stu-
dents through exams and term papers in
“her room” in the library).

Born in Elwood, Ind., she earned her

» Dr. Royston becomes special consultant;
+ Miss Cullipher retires from library

 

Dr. Royston recognized at commencement.

degrees at Illinois, Indiana and Colum-
bia, and began her college library career
at Kansas State. After moving for a short
while to Goucher, she came to Washing-
ton and Lee in 1948. “Many of our de-
velopments and much of our progress
since then,’ Head Librarian Maurice D.
Leach said on her retirement, “can be
traced to her thoughtful and human ap-
proach, her open outlook, her receptive-
ness to change, her imagination, and—not
least—to her considerateness.”’

Spring Reunions

 

Compton is named president

of W&L Alumni Association

The Anniversary Spring Reunions were
combined this year with a number of
other activities including a meeting of
the Alumni Board of Directors, the an-
nual meeting of the Alumni Association,
the John Randolph Tucker Lecture, the
meeting of the Law School Alumni As-
sociation, the W&L-Virginia lacrosse game,
and a golf tournament and _ testimonial
dinner honoring Cy Twombly.

The reunion weekend brought together
the academic and law classes of 1922,
1932, 1947, 1957, and 1962, as well as the
Old Guard, those who were at Washing-
ton and Lee more than 50 years ago.

These classes participated in a full
round of reunion banquets, cocktail par-
ties, campus tours, and a dance. They
also heard a talk on the University’s
future by Farris Hotchkiss, 58, director
of development, and remarks, which they
enthusiastically received, by President
Robert E. R. Huntley at a luncheon be-
fore the lacrosse game, a thriller which
W&L lost by only one point.

It was one of the largest group of
alumni ever to attend spring reunions,
with the Class of 1962 leading the way.
The weather was excellent except for
showers during the golf tournament on
Sunday morning.

Judge A. Christian Compton, ’50, of
Richmond was elected president of the
Alumni Board of Directors at its annual
meeting. He succeeded Richard H. Tur-
rell, °49, of Short Hills, N. J.

Judge Compton, who also holds a W&L
law degree, was alumni vice president last
year. Elected to succeed him in that post
was Upton Beall, ’51, of ‘Tyler, Tex. Re-
elected treasurer was IT. Hal Clarke, ’38,
of Washington, D. C.

At the Alumni Association meeting,
three men were named to four-year terms

8

of
a ae
ee ad
Ce ae
Re a

Outgoing Alumni President Richard H. Turrell and incoming President

A

C

. Christian Compton.

 

. Royce Hough

Vernon W. Holleman, Jr.

 

WeL

———— co

on the alumni board: Vernon W. Hol-
leman, Jr., 58, of Washington, D. C., an
agent with the Home Life Insurance Co.;
C. Royce Hough, III, ’59, of Winston-
Salem, N. C., senior vice president of
Wachovia Bank and ‘Trust Co.; and
‘Theodore M. Kerr, ’57, of Midland, Tex.,
an attorney.

‘They replaced retiring members Rich-
ard ‘Turrell, S. L. Kopald, 43, of Mem-
phis, Tenn.; and Emil C. Rassman, III,
"41, of Midland, Tex.

Named to the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics was Rodger
W. Fauber, ’63, of Lynchburg, Va., an
ofhcer of the Fidelity National Bank. He
succeeds Gilbert S. Meem, 738, of Blue-
field, W.Va.

Members of the nominating commit-
tee were Robert E. Lee, IV, ’49, of Mc-
Lean, Va., chairman; William E. Smith,
Jr., ’63, of Birmingham, Ala.; and R.
Gregory McNeer, ‘56, of Huntington,
W. Va.

Alumni weekend coincided with Law
Day activities, including the John Ran-
dolph Tucker Lecture delivered by Louis
B. Sohn, Bemis professor of international
law at Harvard Law School. His lecture
on “New Directions in International
Law” will be published in the Washing-
ton and Lee Law Review. The finals in
the Burks Moot Court Competition had
three outstanding law alumni as judges:
Martin B. Burks, ’32, of Roanoke; Ross
L. Malone, Jr., ’32, of New York City;
and Fred M. Vinson, Jr., ’51, of Washing-
ton, D. C.

At the luncheon recognition was ex-
tended to the oldest alumnus attending a
reunion, James B. Noell, ’11, of Lynch-
burg, and to the alumnus who came the
fartherest to attend, Terry Fohs, ’62, of
Los Gatos, Calif.

July, 1972

 

 

Theodore M. Kerr Rodger W. Fauber

 

Members of the Old Guard and the Class of 1922, (seated) N. Brown, ’19, E. W.
Poindexter, ’20, W. H. Barrett, ’22, V. E. Kemp, ’22, B. W. Partlow, ’21 (standing)
W. F. Portlock, ’22, E. Jackson, ’22, R. B. James, ’22, R. N. Latture, ’15, R. M. Bear,
22, S. L. Sanderson, ’22.

 

 

 

 

 

Richmond Trophy is established
to spur alumni fund competition

The importance of annual giving to
Washington and Lee in support of edu-
cational and general expenditures re-
ceived new emphasis with the unveiling
of the Richmond Trophy at the annual
meeting of the Alumni Association on
May 13.

The Richmond Trophy, a sterling sil-
ver Revere bowl with cover and _ finial
top, was given to the University by the
Richmond Chapter of the Alumni As-
sociation. John J. Fox, ’57, chapter presi-
dent, made the presentation. It was re-
ceived on behalf of the Alumni Associa-
tion by Richard H. Turrell, ’49, outgoing
president of the Alumni Association.

The Trophy will be awarded annually
to the academic class, graduated within
the last 50 years, which achieves the
highest participation in the Alumni Fund.
The bowl bears the inscription: ‘“The
Richmond Trophy for Participation in
the Alumni Fund of Washington and
Lee University.”

Each year, after presentation of the
trophy to the class with the highest per-
centage of participation in the Alumni
Fund, the following information will be
engraved in a single line on the silver
band that circles the base of the trophy:
1. The year in which the trophy is pre-
sented. 2. The name of the class agent
for the winning class. 3. The numerals
of the winning class. 4. The percentage
achieved by the winning class.

The trophy will remain on permanent
display in the Alumni House, accom-
panied by a small printed sign explain-
ing the significance of the trophy.

The first presentation of the trophy,
1971-72
Alumni Fund, is tentatively scheduled to

covering participation in the

take place during Homecoming this fall.
Noting that class agents do an outstand-

10

ing job for Washington and Lee, Mr. Fox
explained that the purpose of the trophy
is to encourage even greater competition
among class agents to increase the num-
ber of their classmates who contribute to
the Alumni Fund every year.

The trophy is thus tangible recognition
—provided by alumni themselves—that an-
nual gifts to Washington and Lee are an
ideal means by which alumni may express

 

John J. Fox with Richmond Trophy.

their esteem for Washington and Lee and
demonstrate their faith in its importance
as a private institution.

Annual giving through the Alumni
Fund, Parents’ Fund,
sources has been termed “the heart” of
Washington and Lee’s decade-long devel-
opment program to raise $56-million by
1970, with $36-million to be sought by
1976. The current-gifts portion of the
overall goal amounts to $7,850,000.

President Robert E. R. Huntley has
pointed out that meeting the annual giv-

and from other

ing goal is essential to the success of the
overall program. This is because the Uni-
versity, regardless of the amount it re-
ceives for construction and other capital
purposes, must have substantial annual
contributions to close the gap between
income from tuition and endowment and
educational and general expenses.

Students at W&L now pay only about
55 per cent of the cost of their education
through tuition, and the Board of Trus-
tees has determined in planning for the
future that the students’ share of the cost
of a Washington and Lee education shall
not be allowed to grow larger.

Incidentally, the handsome Richmond
Trophy was made by The Stieff Co. of
Baltimore under the supervision of
Charles C. Stieff, II, a 1945 graduate of
Washington and Lee.

Law classes are not eligible to com-
pete for the Richmond Trophy. The rea-
son is that the great disparity in size be-
tween most law and academic classes
makes comparison of performance in an-
nual giving difficult.

University development officials are
hopeful that an individual, an alumni
chapter, a family, or a class will present
a trophy of some kind to encourage simi-
lar competition among law class agents.

WeL

Wy

i
Oo
oe

a
_

A

rod

Jie

aes
PS ears

So
S$

ae

SS =

SS

SAS
SS

SK

:

- _

Se 7 _ .
oo a a
Oo a ge

a
—

 

 

—
ee

oe

Graduating
Sons

O
Alumni

= - | ~aaem s :

p al bee

 

Mt

Sons of alumni who graduated in June are shown above and below. The fathers are seated in front of their sons. They are Carter

Glass, III, ’*42 LLB, Carter Glass, IV; Thomas B. Tolley, ’37, George A. Tolley; Bernard Pirog, ’43, John B. Pirog; Lawrence E. Carson,
‘40, James W. M. Carson; M. G. Heatwole, ‘41, Mark M. Heatwole, (’72-L); Robert C. Walker, Sr., 38, Robert C. Walker, Jr.; Dr.
Thomas L. Martin, ’41, William R. Martin; William A. Garrett, Sr.,’50 LLB, William A. Garrett, Jr.; Edward E. Brown, Jr., ’40,
Allen C. Brown; J. Withers Davis, Jr., ’44, James W. Davis, III; Harvey Pride, ’34, Charles W. Pride; John G. Fox, 44, John G. Fox,
Jr.; Earl M. Vickers, ’°49 LLB, Henry B. Vickers; C. Tom Garten, 42, Joseph A. Garten; William R. Schildknecht, ’34 (deceased),
William Schildknecht, Jr.

bly 8%,

Evans A. Chriss, ’*42, Timothy D. A. Chriss; Dr. Richard H. Shepard, ’43, Richard H. Shepard, Jr.; L. W. Shroyer, III, ’43, Louis W.
Shroyer, IV; Everett Tucker, Jr., ’34, Everett Tucker, II; Gilbert S. Meem, ’38, Gilbert S. Meem, Jr.; Frank M. Hankins, Jr., ’39,
Brent G. Hankins, Bruce R. Hankins (brothers); Alan B. Hobbes, ’°39, Thomas B. Hobbes; Simon M. Painter, ’33, Samuel Franklin
Painter, (72-L); Dr. Randolph T. Shields, Jr., ’32, Randolph T. Shields, Il; Dr. Alexander M. Forrester, Jr., 732, Robert M. Forrester;
H. L. Handley, Jr., ?39, H. L. Handley, II (°72-L); Dr. John A. Parkins, ’39, John A. Parkins, Jr. (72-L); Dr. Paul H. Darsie, ’38,
John S. Darsie; James M. Ballengee, ’48 LLB, J. M. Ballengee, Jr.; Raymond D. Coates, ’50, Bryan R. Coates; Dr. William H. Pifer, 47,
Richard W. Pifer. Not shown in picture are Cecil B. Burns, ’20 (deceased), Robert L. Burns; Matthews A. Griffith, ’40, Robert S.
Griffith; John F. Watlington, Jr., 33, John F. Watlington, III.

12 Wel

 

_ nat a

y:

 

Campus News

 

Applications for admission are up again,
entering class is largest in history

For the fifth successive year, the num-
ber of applications for admission to Wash-
ington and Lee was up in 1972—by 5
per cent, matching almost exactly the rise
each year since 1968.

In addition, the University turned
away a greater proportion of applicants
than it has in any year since 1968, accord-

ing to a report by James D. Farrar, ad-

‘missions director.

And the result: This September’s en-
tering class is the largest in W&L’s his-
tory, 393 men. Of that total, 379 will be
resident students.

The confirmation rate among men
who were offered admission by W&L
“has far exceeded our best estimates,”
Dean Farrar reported.

The 1,320 applications processed rep-
resent the fifth-highest number ever re-
ceived at Washington and Lee. Accep-
tances were sent to just 57 per cent of
these—and of the group offered admis-
sion, 52 per cent confirmed their accep-
tances and will enroll in September.

Dean Farrar observed that applications
to W&L appear to have risen in quality
even more dramatically than in num-
bers—largely, he said, because of better
guidance from secondary-school counsel-
ors. More effective guidance tends to dis-
courage the mediocre student from ap-
plying to colleges such as Washington
and Lee where he has no real chance for
admission. The result is that the Uni-
versity has a better “pool” of applicants
from which to choose each year.

Another primary influence in Washing-
ton and Lee’s admissions picture, Dean
Farrar said, is its broad financial aid pro-
gram, which has awarded more than
$140,000 to entering freshmen this year
(and a total considerably in excess of
$500,000 in all for the coming academic

July, 1972

year). Though the University uses only
specifically designated gifts and endow-
ment income for financial assistance and
refuses to divert the tuition of other stu-
dents, it is generally able to offer full
aid to each admitted student according
to the nationally accepted College Scholar-
ship Service formula.

Still other factors of significance in
Washington and Lee’s favorable admis-
sions situation are the quality and diver-
sity of its curriculum and academic pro-
grams, its tranquil location, efforts to re-
cruit good students by alumni and cur-
rent students, and the distinctions its gra-
duates have attained both in community
and national life.

On the other hand, Washington and

Admissions Director James D. Farrar.

Lee’s location and its men-only admis-
sions policy were listed as the principal

,

“negative” characteristics in a survey the
University itself conducted among  stu-
dents who were offered admission, but
who decided in the end to go elsewhere.

Washington and Lee outpaced other
small, private liberal-arts institutions in
the above-S2,000 tuition category in ap-
plications, according to a survey by the
College Entrance Examination Board
service. That study indicated the net
rise in applications was 2 per cent in

1972. (W&L’s tuition for 1972-73 is
$2,300.)
Paradoxically, while applications to

public institutions rose about 7 per cent,
and to private institutions with $2,000-

 

13

 

Campus News

 

or-more tuition levels by about 2 per
cent, the totals were down by 5 per cent
at private colleges whose tuition is less
than $2,000, the College Board Survey
showed.

Washington and Lee was_ proportion-
ately more selective in offering admission
Duke, Johns
Vanderbilt,
others, according to another survey, con-
ducted by the Chronicle of Higher Edu-
cation,

than Cornell, Hopkins,

Pennsylvania and among

the principal education news-
paper.

More selective than W&L, according
to the same survey, were Bowdoin, Brown,
Chicago, Columbia, Dartmouth, Harvard,
Notre Dame, Princeton, Stanford, Rice,

Tulane and Yale, among others.

 

Gilliam-Phi Awards

Robert G. (Bo)
Brookby of Bartlesville, Okla., was the
winner of the 1972 Frank J. Gilliam
Award, presented annually to the stu-

 

Graduating senior

dent who has made the most valuable con-

tribution to University affairs. The
award is named for Dean Emeritus Frank
Gilliam as a tribute to his long and de-
voted service to Washington and Lee.
The recipient is chosen by the Student
Body Executive Committee.

At the same time, Ring-tum Phi Awards
for distinguished service to the Univer-
sity were presented to Roger Munsick,
graduating senior from Summit, N. J.; A.
Michael Philipps, University photograph-
er and associate director of publications;
Dr. James G. Leyburn, retiring professor
of sociology and former dean of the Uni-
versity; Dick Szlasa, coach of lacrosse,
and Dr. Sydney M. B. Coulling, professor
of English.

‘The awards were presented at the

i4

Gilliam Award winner Brookby.

annual banquet for the senior class spon-
sored by the Washington and Lee Alum-
ni Association. The principal speakers at
the banquet were A. Christian Compton
of Richmond, newly elected president of
the Alumni Association, and Bill Wash-
burn, alumni secretary.

President Robert E. R. Huntley pre-
sented the Gilliam Award and Skip Pau-
kert, editor-elect of the Ring-tum Phi,
presented the Phi awards.

 

Mr. Brookby was president of the senior
Delta ‘Tau
Delta, during his senior year. He was a
consistent Dean’s List student and was

class and his fraternity,

treasurer of the Interfraternity Council,
president of the Fellowship of Christian
Athletes, an active participant in the ac-
tivities of the Lexington Boy’s Club, a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron
Delta Kappa, and Phi Eta Sigma. Last
winter, he was one of two Washington
and Lee seniors nominated for a Rhodes
Scholarship. In athletics, he was a four-
year letterman in baseball and also par-
ticipated in varsity basketball for two
years.

Mr. Munsick, a history major, was co-
chairman of Contact, the student organiz-
ed symposium, a dormitory counselor, and
managing editor of the Ring-tum Phi.

Mr. Philipps is a former director of
sports information at Washington and
Lee and had been University photo-
grapher and associate director of publi-
cations since 1968. He was a teacher of a
popular course in photojournalism in the
journalism department and made out-
standing photographic and design con-
tributions to University publications. He
resigned his post this spring to join Paine
Webber Jackson & Curtis, brokerage firm
in Washington, D.C.

Coach Szlasa has guided Washington
and Lee to the top ranks of lacrosse play
and carried his team this year to a 12-2
record and a berth in the NCAA na-
tional lacrosse championship. He was
college division “Coach of the Year’ in
1971.

Dr. Leyburn retired from the faculty
this year after a W&L career dating to
1947. He was dean of the University and
head of the sociology department. He was
cited as “one of the most inspiring lec-

WeL

 

Ring-tum Phi Award recipients: Dr. Leyburn, Coach Szlasa, Mr. Philipps,
Dr. Coulling, and Mr. Munsick.

July, 1972

turers around” with a “constant concern
for his individual students.”

Dr. Coulling has been a member of the
English faculty for 16 years and was
honored for “devotion to his students’
and his stature in academics. He is an
authority in Victorian literature and is
currently engaged in research on Mat-
thew Arnold, for which he has received
several grants.

 

New Mathematics Head

 

Robert A. Roberts, professor of mathe-
matics at Denison University, has been
named professor of mathematics and head
of the department at Washington and
Lee, effective Sept. 1. Dr. Roberts will re-
place Dr. Felix P. Welch as head of
W&L’s mathematics department. Dr.
Welch has reached the mandatory retire-
ment age of 65 for administrative heads,
but will continue to teach full-time.

Dr. Roberts studied at West Virginia
Wesleyan College, West Virginia and
Harvard Universities, and the University
of Michigan, where he received the Ph.D.
degree in 1953. He taught at West Vir-
ginia, the University of Miami, and Ohio
Wesleyan before going to Denison in
1961. He has served as chairman of Deni-
son’s mathematics department and as
chairman of the university’s admissions
committee. He is chairman-elect of the
Ohio section of the Mathematics Associa-
tion and was the first head of a Small-
College Computer Interest Group he
helped form in cooperation with other
Ohio institutions. A U. S. Navy veteran,
Dr. Roberts is married to the former Miss
Patricia Jane McPhee, and they have
three children, William, 20, John, 17, and
Harriet, 13.

Dr. Welch has been a member of Wash-

15

Campus News

 

ington and Lee’s faculty since 1947, and
holds degrees from Mississippi State Col-
lege, the University of Texas, and the
University of Illinois. He taught pre-
viously at Mississippi State. He is the
co-author of Calculus, a new basic text
he wrote with Dr. Robert S. Johnson,
also on Washington and Lee's faculty.

 

John Birch Speaker

 

Bill MclIlhany, a rising senior from
Roanoke, Va., was a guest speaker at the
annual Council Dinner of the John
Birch Society in Los Angeles on March
3. He is a life member of the society and
the leader of its chapter on the W&L
campus.

Mr. MclIlhany was one of six young
leaders from across the country to be in-
vited to address the dinner, attended by
more than 2,000 members and_ guests.
The dinner was held on the eve of one
of several yearly meetings of the Nation
Council with its president and founder,
Robert Welch.

Mr. MclIlhany’s address was entitled
“There is a Conspiracy.” In it, he high-
lighted
topics of research he has encountered

some of the more interesting
while working on the history he is writ-
ing for the society at such places as the
Departments of Printed Books and Manu-
scripts in the British Museum, the Li-
brary of Congress, and at Washington
and Lee. His book is planned to be a de-
tailed presentation of the historical view
held by most members of the society.
Radically opposed to the  behavioristic
and sociological interpretations so popu-
lar in contemporary historiography, Mr.
MclIlhany holds that many of the events
of the past 200 years, from the French
Revolution to the Cold War, are attri-

16

butable to the existence and growth of a

secret society called the IJlumninati,
which began in Bavaria in 1776 and
which, according to his thesis, manifests
itself most prominently today in the

forms of the worldwide Communist
movement and the “elite political estab-
lishment” in New York and Washing-
ton. He has invested several thousand
dollars in this research, writing sum-
maries of portions of it in papers for
European history courses at W&L.

He is also writing an account of the
crimes committed by the White Knights

of the Ku Klux Klan in Mississippi from

 

Bill McIlhany as Mock Convention delegate.

 

1964 to 1967, based on the work of a
member of the John Birch Society, Del-
mar Dennis, who was the FBI under-
cover operative who gathered the evi-
dence which finally convicted the Klans-

men guility of those crimes.

 

Visiting Teacher

 

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of
economics, taught a special course in
public utilities regulation at a_ special
program for executives, held by the Uni-
versity of Michigan, through June 29.

The course is the second taught this
summer by Dr. Phillips, a recognized au-
thority in the field of governmental regu-
lation of utilities. He taught the course
the first two weeks in June to a similar

executives’ group at Michigan.

 

Coulling Heads Project

 

 

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of
English, has been named coordinator of
an innovative program designed to in-
crease student and faculty familiarity with
the resources of the University library
system. He succeeds the late Dr. Linton
Lomas Barrett, coordinator of the pro-
gram since its inception last July 1 until
his death March 8.

The first five-year program, partly fund-
ed by a grant of $50,000 from the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities
and the Council on Library Resources,
emphasizes the uses—and the limitations
—of reference services and the special
collections in the main Cyrus Hall Mc-
Cormick Library and the six undergra-
duate divisional libraries on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus.

Included in the program is a course
during the Spring Term in bibliographic

WeL

 

 

Ao >
a be
ae
f t “
‘5
‘% r
))
i
I.
4,

l
vw

Dewy

  

resources and research methods. The pro-
ject, involving professors and students in
the humanities and social sciences, seeks
to incorporate into the education of every
undergraduate a systematic method for
acquiring familiarity with the library’s
resources.

 

Gift Honors Mrs. Partlow

A scholarship has been established at

 

the University in memory of the late
Jane McCauley Partlow by her husband,
Benjamin W. Partlow, a 1921 graduate.
Income from the fund will be used to as-
sist needy Washington and Lee students
with unusual academic and personal pro-
mise.

With Mr. Partlow’s gift in memory of
his wife, Washington and Lee has estab-
lished a new category of scholarship fund
through which wives of alumni may be
memorialized. Gifts to the special me-
morial fund will remain as separate en-
dowments, but the income will be pooled
and awarded to deserving students.

Mrs. Partlow died in 1971. For 21 years
she was sponsor of the Madison College
YWCA. Mr. Partlow was a chemistry pro-
fessor at Madison College until his re-
tirement in 1968. Mrs. Partlow was a na-
tive of Bedford and a graduate of Black-
stone College.

 

A Gift of $200,000

 

Dr. Aubrey A. Houser, Sr., of Rich-
mond has given $200,000 to the Univer-
sity. Income from the gift will be used
to help meet the University’s annual
general and educational expenditures.

Dr. Houser’s gift is the first endow-
fund made to

ment the University

through the Robert E. Lee Associates, a

July, 1972

group of Washington and Lee’s most
generous supporters. Dr. Houser is a
charter member of the Lee Associates.
The group, which now has more than
300 members, consists of alumni, parents,
and other friends of Washington and Lee
whose gifts in support of current opera-
tions amount to $1,000 or more. Mem-
bership in the group is perpetual.

Dr. Houser, a 1909 alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee, is president of William
P. Poythress & Co., Inc., a Richmond
firm.

pharmaceutical manufacturing

After receiving his M. D. degree from
the Medical College of Virginia, he prac-
ticed medicine in Richmond until assum-
ing direction of the Poythress Co. He es-
tablished it quickly as a profitable con-
cern and expanded its area of operations
to 25 states. At 91 he remains active in
the firm’s affairs.

In 1959, he received an honorary Sc.D.
degree from Bridgewater College, and in
1963 he was inducted as an honorary
member of Beta Gamma Sigma, honorary
administration

business fraternity, at

Washington and Lee.

 

Annual Art Awards

 

A total of 15 awards in five categories
was presented in May by the University
to students in W&L’s annual springtime
Student Art Exhibition.

The award-winning artwork, as well as
other paintings, drawings and sculpture
by undergraduates at the University, were
displayed in the duPont Gallery on cam-
pus.

First-place awards were won by Tho-
mas J. Driscoll of Newtown, Pa., black-
and-white drawing; Charles L. Henry III
Del.,
James M. Martinez Jr. of Dover, Mass.,

of Wilmington, color drawing;

sculpture; James H. Fuller Jr. of Lexing-
ton, watercolor, and Drayton N. Smith
of Summerville, S.C., painting.

Second-place awards were presented to
Drayton Smith, black-and-white drawing;
Thomas E. Addison III of Atlanta, color
drawing; Ronald W. Abrams of Roslyn,
L.I., sculpture; K. B. Gebhardt of Scars-
dale, N.Y., watercolor, and Michael D.
Kopald of Memphis, painting.

Third-place awards were presented to
Larry Alexander of Norfolk, black-and-
white drawing; Robert K. Storey of East
Longmeadow, Mass., and James H. Ful-
ler Jr., color drawing (tie); William S.
Todd Jr. of Kingsport, Tenn., sculpture;
Samuel S. Kenworthy, of Chester Springs,
Pa., watercolor, and Davic E. Sands of
Winter Haven, Fla., painting.

Judge for the show was Raymond
Twiddy, assistant professor of art at Sweet
Briar College.

 

Faculty Promotions

 

Promotions of six faculty members have
been announced, effective Sept. 1.

Promoted from assistant to associate
professor of physics was Dr. James J.
Donaghy. Receiving promotions from in-
structor to assistant professor were Dr.
Scott B. Cummings, sociology; “Thomas
J. Davies, physical education; Dr. Philip
M. Keith, English; Dr. Halford Ryan,
English, and Thomas O. Vinson, mathe-
matics.

Dr. Donaghy, newly promoted associ-
ate physics professor, is a graduate of the
University of Florida and received the
Ph.D. degree in 1965 from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.
He taught one year at Virginia Military
Institute and carried out research with
the U.S. government one year prior to

17

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

 

 

 

eo ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

*
Me

]
WS ES be, >
i. ae. #
— ns —— —z +
a
’

a

‘

i

=~

a
6 i, J

—  —_ oor oor
,
’

x
oe es
»

—.

 

»

4
‘ ‘ 5

‘

t

L

"sais

Athletics

Twombly is honored on SOth anniversary;
scholarship is established in his name

The many friends of Cy Twombly, in-
cluding a number who were coached by
him, honored Cy in Lexington on May
14 with a golf tournament and a testi-
monial dinner at which a scholarship in
his name was announced.

The occasion marked the completion
of Cy’s 50th year at Washington and Lee.
He first came to Lexington for the 1921-
22 academic year and served for many
years as golf and swimming coach and
athletic director from 1954-70. Although
now retired, he remains as the W&L
golf coach.

The Edwin Parker (Cy) Iwombly Schol-
arship was established by several of his
former students to honor his “unusually
high achievements and to recognize his
unswerving loyalty, devotion, and contri-
bution to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity.”

At the time of the announcement the
scholarship fund amounted to approxi-
mately $13,000, rose to $18,000 by the end
of June,
$25,000.

The scholarship is to be awarded by

and will ultimately reach

special action of the Committee on Stu-
dent Financial Aid to an entering fresh-
man based on his demonstration of mark-
ed attainments in sportsmanship and
academic pursuits during his high school
years and is to be held by the recipient
during his Washington and Lee under-
graduate career for as long as he con-
tinues to evidence those same qualities
during his University life.

Members of the Twombly scholarship
committee are J. Tyler Bowie, ’43; John
L. Crist, Jr., 45; S. L. Kopald, Jr., °43;
William J. Noonan, Jr., °43; Jack W.
Warner, ’41; C. Thomas Fuller, ’42; and
W. A. Chipley, ’49.

A number of gifts were bestowed on Cy

July, 1972

 

Mayor Phillips presents framed proclamation to Cy Twombly at “Cy Twombly Day”
banquet. Mrs. Twombly is at left.

during the testimonial dinner. They in-
cluded engraved watches for him and his
wife Velma, a bound book of over 150
testimonial letters from Cy’s former ath-
letes, and a monogram ring, a gift from
the athletic department.

In addition, he was presented with a
framed copy of a proclamation declaring
May 14 as “Cy ‘Twombly Day” in the
City of Lexington. The proclamation was
signed by Lexington Mayor Charles F.
Phillips, Jr., who also is a professor of
economics at W&L.

Approximately 140 persons attended
the testimonial dinner in Evans Dining
Hall. Over 50 of them had participated
earlier in the day in the Cy Twombly In-
vitational Golf Tournament. Cy, together
with longtime friend and fellow athletic
great Cy Young, toured the course in
Cy’s personal golf cart, greeting their

many friends (and giving some coaching
advice and tips where needed).

Ned Baber of Roanoke apparently
benefited the most from Cy’s coaching
as he shot a 71 to win low gross honors.
Other prizes went to Wesley Brown of
Chattanooga as runner-up and closest-to-
hole no. 8; Harry McCarthy of Rich-
mond, low net; William J. Noonan of
Fla.,
no. 2; and Jim Sheridan of Lexington,

Pensacola, closest-to-the hole on

booby prize.

 

Two in Hall of Fame

 

The Virginia Sports Hall of Fame was
formally organized recently, and of the
first six athletes installed, two were Wash-
ington and Lee men.

Harry K. (Cy) Young, ’17, and Robert
W. Spessard, ’39, were installed in the

19

Athletics

Hall of Fame during ceremonies on May
19 at Portsmouth’s Suburban Country
Club. The Hall of Fame, housed in Ports-
mouth’s new $6.6-million Civic Center,
honors persons from Virginia who made
notable achievements in sports.

Spessard now practices law in his na-
tive Roanoke, while Young, retired W&L
alumni executive secretary, has recently
moved from Irvington to Richmond.

Young already is a member of the Na-
tional Footbail Hall of Fame, having star-
red and captained the W&L teams of
1913, °14, ’15 and ’16, which won 29 of 36
games, 23 of them shutouts, and was un-
1914.
four years and captained the basketball,

defeated in He also starred for

baseball, and track squads, altogether
winning 16 letters in athletics.
1937,

the Southern

Spessard was All-America in

when the Generals won

moment ata WeL alumni reunion.

20

Virginia Hall of Famers Cy Young and Bob Spessard enjoy a light

Conference basketball championship, and
played on the teams which went to the
conference finals in 1936 and 1938. At
6-7 and 235 pounds, he was one of the

,

first really ‘“‘big’”” men to dominate on the
basketball court, long before men of his
size learned to play the game. He also
starred on W&L football and track teams.
basketball

coach during those years was Cy Young,

Incidentally, Spessard’s
whose teams posted an overall mark of
87-50 between 1932 and 1939, with only
one losing season in seven.

Other initial inductees into the Vir-
ginia Hall of Fame are the University of
Virginia’s “Bullet Bill’ Dudley of Lynch-
burg, Duke’s Clarence (Ace) Parker of
Portsmouth, Virginia’s Eppa Rixey Jr.
(now deceased) of Culpeper, who set
numerous major league baseball pitching

records, and Lynchburg’s Dr. R. Walter

 

 

Johnson (also deceased), a former AlI-
America football player at Lincoln Uni-
versity, who later won national tennis
titles and trained many national sports
stars such as Arthur Ashe and Althea
Gibson.
Attending the installation ceremony
and banquet from W&L were Athletic
Director William D. McHenry, a member
of the Virginia Hall of Fame Board of
Directors; Alumni Secretary William C.
Washburn, Jr., and a number of alumni

from the Portsmouth Chapter.

 

1972-73 Team Captains

 

Captains for 11 varsity sports for the
1972-73
Don Eavenson of Abington, Pa., a foot-

season have been announced.
ball tri-captain, will also be a co-captain
of next year’s lacrosse team. wo other
W&L athletes will also serve as captain
of two sports: Brandon Herbert of Sao
Paulo, Brazil, in soccer and track, and
Bob Sherwood of Upper Saddle River,
N. J., in track and cross-country. The
1972-73 team captains are:

Baseball—Doug Clelan, Harrisburg, Pa.,
and Ellie Gutshall, Elkins, W.Va.

Basketball—Paul McClure, Memphis,
‘Tenn.
Cross-country—Bill  Kalal, Garfield

Heights, Ohio, and Bob Sherwood, Upper
Saddle River, N.J.

Football—Steve Fluharty, St. Petersburg,
Fla.; Tim Haley, Winchester, Va.; and
Don Eavenson, Abington, Pa.

Golf—Jack Marquess, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Lacrosse—Don Eavenson, Abington,
Pa., and Sam Englehart, Baltimore, Md.

Soccer—John Buckley, Clearwater, Fla.;
Brandon Herbert, Sao Paulo, Brazil; and
Meade

‘Tenn.

Kampfmueller, Germantown,

WeL

 

»->

STE Es

Sol eenenentitiie ee
i

~
— . ~

“a,

 

i es q

 

 

 

Swimming—Alan Corwith, Miami, Fla.;
and Aven Sharp, Haddonfield, N.J.

Tennis—Marshall Washburn, Lexing-
ton, Va.
Track—Brandon Herbert, Sao Paulo,

Brazil; and Bob Sherwood, Upper Saddle
River, N. J.

Wrestling—Jim Stieff, Baltimore, Md.;
and Duncan DeGraff, Scarsdale, N.Y.

 

Top Athletic Awards

Basketball standout Mike Daniel of
Cincinnati and football star Al McWhor-
ter of Montgomery, Ala., have been nam-

 

ed Washington and Lee’s top athletes for
the 1971-72 season. Daniel was named
W&L’s most valuable athlete, and Mc-
the Wink Glasgow
Award for spirit and sportsmanship.

Stu Nibley of Westgate, Md., who led
the freshmen basketball team with a 19.7

Whorter' received

scoring average and who broke school
track records in the mile and three-mile
run, was named the outstanding fresh-
man athlete.

The awards were presented at the Uni-
versity’s annual Spring Sports Barbecue,
which closes the athletic year. In all, 199
monograms and 112 numerals for partici-
pation were presented to 327 students
who took part in intercollegiate athletics
during the year. This represents nearly 25
per cent of the undergraduate student
body.

During the year, W&L’s varsity teams
posted an overall record of 93 victories
against 71 defeats and one tie. Winning
seasons were posted in basketball (17-9),
golf (7-2), lacrosse (12-3), tennis (13-7),
track (4-3), and baseball (11-10). The
wrestling team was even at 6-6-1. Con-
ference championships were won in bas-
ketball, swimming, baseball, golf, and

July, 1972

tennis. The lacrosse team won the South
Atlantic Division title. Washington and
Lee won the overall College Athletic
Conference championship.

‘The top awards in each sport were:

Baseball—Ellie Gutshall, Elkins, W.Va.,
two awards for outstanding contributions
and as the leading hitter with a_ .403
average; Doug Clelan, Harrisburg, Pa.,
outstanding contributions; Rod Ferran-
dino, McLean, Va., outstanding pitcher.

Basketball—Mike Daniel,
Ohio, two awards for leadership and for

Cincinnati,

outstanding contributions; Hatton Smith,

Birmingham, Ala., for best defensive
player.

Cross-country—Carter Glass IV, Lynch-
burg, Va., for overall contributions.

Football—Ed Kowal, Wayne, N.J., for
outstanding contributions; Dave Brooks,
Jenkintown, Pa., outstanding defensive
play; Jim Farrar, Jr., Lexington, Va.,
leadership and sportsmanship; JoJo Mar-
tin, Midland, Tex., roughest and toughest;
Lat Purser, Charlotte, N.C., and David
Turk, Roanoke, Va., outstanding players,
offensively and defensively, in the 1971
Homecoming Game; Chappy Conrad,
Richmond, Va., most improved.

Golf—Jack Marquess, Jr., Cincinnati,
Ohio,

Birmingham, Ala., most improved.

outstanding golfer; Nim Long,

Lacrosse—Don Eavenson, Abington,
Pa., leadership, sportsmanship and _ abil-
ity; Jim McCane, Swarthmore, Pa., for
team spirit, desire and dedication; Ted
Md.,

most ground balls; Scott Neese, Rochester,

Bauer, Baltimore, for recovering
N.Y., for selflessness, courage and team-
work.

Soccer—Rolf Piranian, Oreland, Pa.,
outstanding player; Meade Kampfmuel-
ler, outstanding contributions.

Swimming—Beach Clark, Atlanta, Ga.,

outstanding swimmer; John Lawlor, Jack-
sonville, Fla., outstanding effort and team-
work; Richard Koch, St. Joseph, Mo.,
most improved; Bert Meem, Jr., Bluefield,
W.Va., outstanding contributions.

Tennis—Jeff Driscoll, Narberth,
outstanding player.

Pa.,
Track—Brandon Herbert, Sao Paulo,
Brazil, for most team points, leadership
and sportsmanship; John Darsie, Ithaca,
N.Y., most improved; Dave Stone, Chic-
ago, Ill., for team dedication, loyalty and
leadership.

Wrestling—Bill West, Jeffrey, N.H., for
performance, leadership and sportsman-
ship; Doug Ford, San Francisco, Calif.,
outstanding freshman.

 

1972 Football Schedule

 

Sept. 23 Westminster Home

Sept. 30 Centre Away

Oct. 7 Hampden-Sydney Home

Oct. 14 ‘Towson State Home

Oct. 21 Western Maryland Away

Oct. 28 Sewanee Home
(Homecoming)

Nov. 4 Southwestern Away
Nov. 11 Denison Home
(Parents’ Weekend)

Nov. 18 Washington University Home

 

Champion Lacrosse Team

 

The Washington and Lee lacrosse team,
which had a 12-2 record in regular sea-
son play, faced No. 2 Johns Hopkins in
the first round of the NCAA post-season
tournament and lost in a_ hard-fought
game.

Washington and Lee jumped into a
2-1 lead, but a letdown in the second and
third quarters enabled Hopkins to move
From there the Blue

21

into a 10-2 lead.

Athletics

Jays ran it out to a 11-5 victory over the
Generals at Homewood Field in Balti-
more.

W&L was one of eight top-ranked teams
to get bids for the tournament. The
others besides Hopkins were Rutgers,
Maryland, Army, Virginia, Cortland, and
Navy. Virginia finally won the NCAA
title by defeating Maryland 13-12.

In posting its best record since start-
ing the lacrosse program in 1947, W&L
won the South Atlantic Division cham-
pionship with an 8-0 record. The Gen-
erals’ only losses during the regular sea-
son were to Navy, 19-8, and Virginia,
10-9.

Coach Dick Szlasa was chosen to coach
the South squad in the annual North-
South College All-Star Game, and two
W&L players were selected to play on his
squad: Scott Neese and Jim McCane.

fe
Ps
ne

ee ee } a sea
Seieeateceiien a Se od
fe the = oe

 
 

: a sphte a
i , eae

Presale.

22

 

Varsity Whips Alumni

 

The Washington and Lee football team
wound up its spring practice on May 20
by trouncing the Wolfmen 18-0.

The Wolfmen?

Yes, that was the W&L alumni team
recruited by player-coach John Wolf, a
‘72 law graduate who made quite a name
for himself at linebacker during his var-
sity playing days. The old grads provid-
ed formidable opposition for the regu-
lars. The lineup included former all-
conference performer Jack Baizley at
quarterback and _pass-receiving great
Bruce Green at end. Joining Wolf on
defense were such former stars as Dean
Kumpuris, Logan Bullit, Starke Sydnor,
and Rudd Smith. On offense were such
former standouts as Thunder Thornton,

get

4 i i ss ages seaeadiinadite tee
a tian ee ~eltng

POO ONES Es

  
 
 

Dave Warfield scores W&L’s first goal against Johns Hopkins in first round of NCAA lacrosse tournament.

Tom McJunkin, and Skip Chase. The
alumni had the help of nine graduating
seniors.

The regulars set up their three touch-
downs through the air, with senior quar-
terback Steve Fluharty running the ball
for two scores and quarterback Lewis
Powell going over for the other.

The varsity’s victory over the tough
alumni team enhanced the optimism that
crept into the Generals’ prospects for
1972. Coach Graham (Buck) Leslie has
several reasons to look ahead to next
year:

—Only nine seniors graduated from
last year’s team, which won four of its
last five games to post an overall 4-5
record.

—Thirty-one lettermen, 23 of them
starters, return.

—The entire starting offensive line,

Bd

 

 

 

Athletics

 

Rugby combines traditions of on-the-field ruggedness and off-the-field camaraderie.

and learned. The team relies on self-dis-
cipline to insure attendance at practice.

Rugby is one of the last remnants of
truly “amateur” athletics. There are no
varsity letters, no athletic awards, and
little publicity. A young man plays be-
cause he loves the sport. And despite the
rugby club’s well deserved reputation for
beer-drinking, the nature of the sport de-
mands a great emphasis on conditioning.
A typical afternoon practice would be
run like this: it opens with calesthentics,
followed by a one-and one-half-mile run
on the cross-country course to get loose,
followed by sprints and passing drills,
then the team scrimmages for an hour or
more and ends practice with more sprints.

Another important part of rugby is
there are no team cuts. If a young man
wants to play the sport, regardless of his
athletic ability or size, he will play. This
does not mean he will be substituted into
an easy game during the last few minutes.

24

There is no substitution allowed in rugby,
and in case of serious injury, the team
must play short-handed. The rugby club
succeeds in playing all its members by
fielding two and if necessary three separ-
ate teams each weekend: A, B, and C.
More than 60 students participate during
the course of a year. The A team is the
strongest, but the B team has beaten
schools that the A team lost to.

The sport of rugby combines traditions
of on-the-field ruggedness and off-the-field
camaraderie which set it apart from all
other collegiate sports. The game itself is
a cross between football and a street fight.
The 40-minute halves are filled with high
speed runs and crushing tackles. The
sport is not encumbered by body pads,
forward passes, substitutions, or too many
rules of any sort. After the brawls, Op-
posing teams do some serious singing and
drinking together in the long tradition
of the sport. One Australian rugger after

a recent victory over a U.S.A. all-star
team was quoted in Sports Illustrated as
saying, “Tell me another game where you
can beat the stuffin’ out of a bloke for 80
minutes, then put your arm around him
at the end, drink with him, and think
he’s a hell of a bloke.”

Support us and come see us this fall.
You'll be in for a fascinating afternoon.

The 1972 tentative fall rugby schedule

follows:
Sept. 23. VMI (Scrimmage) Away
Sept. 30 Old Dominion Away
Oct. 1 Norfolk RFC Away
Oct. 8 North Carolina Home
Oct. 15 Virginia Home
Oct. 21 North Carolina State Home
or
William and Mary Away
Oct. 29 Hampden-Sydney Away
Nov. 5 Duke Home
Nov. 12.) American U. Home

WeL

 

 

pocon 7 —_ pleased to “have
t Old Guard. members, Dr. Bio
Coffey, "13, and Jonah Larrick, ’15.

 

 

 
  

April 27 at. tthe Martha Washington nn
in Abingdon. Special guests from Lexing-
ton were Farris Hotchkiss, '58, director of
development, and Mrs. Hotchkiss; | and
Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary,
Mrs. Washburn. Hotchkiss reported
| s of Richmond _ the University’s: development plans and
7 Ss of an innovative gave a synopsis of what had been accom-
ter / Arrangements were made_ by 7 plished toward the goals. Outgoing presi-
upter ( dent A. C. Smeltzer, ’29, presided at the
meeting. The ‘nominating: commi tee
headed by Frank Gc odpasture, ’48, rec-
ommended Jimmy D. Bowie, 65, a law-
yer in 1 Bristol as ot pre dent, and

 

    

 

 

 
 
  
  
 
  
 

 

 

 

   

 

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_

>

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

          

 

    
  
  
   

se.

re

OS

.

tg ck eee *. deemliliaait

 

Ne

     
   

    
 

— tained as a merly with the
_ Corp. at its W University of N

. 7

     

      
  

-
|

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 
    

   

  
  

 

 

 

 

i

—

-

-

+

> a

a

a

-

7 . | ey in At-
i lanta, Ga., irector of

 

 

7
-
oan

¥

 

f

<

ee
by
¥ A
' -
}

o
">

 

 

John J. Fox, Jr., ?57

tory dating back to the 14th century and was
also the boyhood home of the Duke of Edin-
burgh. The home is owned by Robert Mac-
Neil, a reporter for the British Broadcast-
ing Corp., who is on assignment in the
United States. The Owens hope to live in
Lynden Manor for their two-year stay in
England.

S. MAYNARD TuRK has been named director
of the patent department of Hercules Inc.
Formerly a senior patent counsel, Turk
joined Hercules in 1954, as an attorney at
the Hercules-operated, government-owned
Army Ammunition Plant in Radford, Va. In
1959, he was named an administrative as-
sistant at that facility. In August of 1959,
Turk was transferred to the legal depart-
ment in Wilmington as counsel. His profes-
sional memberships include the American
Bar Association, the Virginia and Delaware
Bar Associations, and he is vice rector of
the Board of Visitors (Regents) of Radford

College.
1953

Robert H. WARREN is senior project man-
ager with Daniel Construction Co. in Albany,

Ga.
1954

RoBert L. ANDERSON, JR., is senior vice presi-
dent and a member of the board of direc-
tors of Cargill, Wilson and Acree, one of the
largest advertising agencies in the South-
east, based in Richmond. He joined the
Richmond agency in 1963. In April, Anderson
was speaker in a Marketing Series sponsored
by Tri-City businessmen in Petersburg, Va.

1955

HARRY K. Cocuran of Little Rock, Ark., has
joined Metropolitan Trust Co. in a “gen-
eral administrative capacity.” Metropolitan
fits as well as training and development.

WILLIAM H. Forrest, JR., is a partner in
Pompei Tile Co. and is president of Econe-
tel, Inc. with motels in Newport News, Va.,
and Greensboro, N. C.

1956
James H. Harve t, III, has been appointed
judge of the Newport News Traffic and
Civil Courts.

JoHN R. Hearst, Jr., has been elected a
testamentary trustee of the estate of Wil-
liam Randolph Hearst, Sr., his grandfather.
Hearst writes sport features and motor rac-

July, 1972

 

A. W. Kehlhem, ’59

ing for the Hearst newspapers. He started
his newspaper career in 1952 as a sports re-
porter and photographer for the New York
Daily Mirror. In 1963, Hearst joined the
New York Journal-American.

DONALD F. STINF, supervisor of personnel at
Pittsburgh Plate Glass Industries in Cum-
berland, Md., has been promoted to super-
visor of labor relations at the PPG plant in
Creighton, Pa. Stine joined PPG Industries
in 1967 and became training director that
year. In 1970, he was promoted to supervisor
of personnel and assumed the overall respon-
sibility for employment and employee bene-
fits as well as training and development.

1957

Eric C. Curry, formerly with C & O and
B & O railroads, is now controller-treasurer
for the Loudon Park-David Ridge Cemetary
Cos. of Baltimore.

Joun J. Fox, Jr., formerly with First and
Merchants Bank in Richmond, recently join-
ed the Central National Bank as vice presi-
dent for trust operations. Before his associa-
tion with First and Merchants, Fox was with
the American National Bank in_ Silver
Springs, Md., and the Union Trust Com-
pany in Washington, D. C. He is a gradu-
ate of the School of Bank Management spon-
sored by the Virginia-Maryland Bankers As-

sociation.
1958

After more than 10 years as a banker, JOHN
H. Croker, JR., has opened an office as a
private financial consultant in Fort Wayne,
Ind.

RICHARD A. DAvis, assistant history professor
at Queens College in Charlotte, N. C., has
received the Queen’s Faculty Teaching
Award. The 1972 college yearbook was dedi-

cated to him.
1959

After completing a residency in ophthalmo-
logy at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear In-
firmary, Dr. ARTHUR S. Grove, Jr., will
spend the next year on a plastic surgery fel-
lowship in San Francisco and in New York
City.

Ropert R. KANE is the administrative officer
of General Service Administration, Public
Buildings, Region 3. In November, 1970, he
received an American Political Science As-
sociation Congressional Fellowship and _ is

currently beginning an = assignment with

New York congressman, Peter Peyser.

ARTHUR W. KEHLHEM has been promoted to
the position of senior technical sales repre-
sentative in the solvents division of Enjay
Chemical Co. He is located in the firm’s
Boston office. Kehlhem has been with the
Enjay organization since 1956. Enjay, the
U. S. affiliate of Esso Chemical Co., manu-
facturers and markets plastics, synthetic
rubbers, films, additives, and industrial and
specialty chemicals.

JOHN G. RussELL, JR., widely known in fi-
nancial circles in Nashville, Tenn., has joined
Hilliard-Lyons, a _ securities firm. Russell
has been with the Third National Bank in
Nashville since 1960.

1960

Dr. RicHARD W. COHEN has begun the prac-
tice of orthopaedic surgery in the Atlanta,
Ga., area. After completing his residency at
the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in
Philadelphia, Dr. Cohen practiced for a
while in Norristown, Pa.

CHRISTOPHER HUTCHINS, vice president of the
Dead River Co. of Bangor, Maine, graduated
in May from the program for management
development of the Harvard University Gra-
duate School of Business Administration. He
had been studying there since February,
1972. The three-month program for man-
agement development prepares middle-eche-
lon managers for greater responsibility.

DANIEL B. LEONARD was recently elected vice
president of William Hutchinson Co., Inc., a
member of the New York Stock Exchange.

KARL (SkIP) ROHNKE is associated with the
Hamilton-Wendham High School in Ipswich,
Mass., and is working on Outward Bound
projects.

Dr. JAMES B. THRELKEL, effective July 1,
1972, has joined the Gessler Clinic in Winter
Haven, Fla., as thoracic-cardiovascular sur-

gcon.

MARRIED: Winston E. Kock, Jr., to El-
vira Beatriz Calvo La fuente of Buenos
Aires, Argentina on November 14, 1971, at
the United Nations Chapel.

Robert J. O'BRIEN has won three writing

awards in national competitions during
1972. He was second in the news writing

 

 

 

 

 

 

- category, in the national, interfaith competi-
tion of the Religious Public Relations Coun-
_ cil. He was also first in news writing and sec-
ond in feature writing” in the nai

awards oe eon a ‘the Baptist

ee A . ehiaast is”

 
   
   
    
  

1 oan joins two older brothers.

I FL ‘DuckwortTH has been named
‘ounsel | for the Planned Communities Group
of M McCulloch | Properties, Inc. He has served
7 he Oat department of Trans-

      
 
   
  
 
 

  
 
 
 

1 ently Couch also
~_ investments

 

oa vith William Pitt, |
James L. Srorr, Jn h has as
sistant vice pres ent ¢
Hey Bank

   

: fe, “7 ave one a ‘Laura,
“and the family lives in New Canaan, ‘Conn. ,

7 De Witram: B "JorDan, ‘director of the 5
- Meadows biaecietsa: at Southern” Methodist .

      
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
  
    

have” tt

Te vice ea of U. S. Fic

of admissions and associate dean of
at Washington and Lee, ranked

 
 

. am in May. Schildt will prac ‘ic

law ; in n Baltimore, beginning in August. a
: ia ie Wheton € College, a

| ‘School of Art in Washing ston, 1965

   
 
  

ment of Invertebrate Zook at the
sonian Institution. 7 a

  
 

“ALLAN HL _ Jouxsros has joined R. J. Rey. mot
nolds nae. eS: ‘Ss s marketing, deparn | |

Johnston will be active in ‘all phases of ad- ;
vertising | and Faas activities for a

- firm - in , June, 1971, RENE H.
) cal
i eee? Beach. -

trust field. Also he is doing some

iain, in January, 1972. “Mich. |

7 McC. Sonn, a 1968, pada of |

Lighest among those taking the Mary: /

 

Dr. KENNETH E. CHANDLER is beginni
general surgery residency at John Gaston
City of Memphis * Hos p ital. “i

 

 

The Rev. THOMAS CRENSHAW i is pastor of the
Pompey United Church in ompey, N.Y.

“Maj. Ronatp J. Kaye was recently promoted

to head of the review branch, Military Jus-
tice Division, Office of Judge Advocate Gen-
eral of the Navy. He is the only combina-
tion lawyer-pilot on ac ve duty in the U. S.
Marine eae a | recently,

    
 
    
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
  
     
  
    
 
  
  

und #. SAMUEL H. Trane a
arah Mary, on Feb. 22, 1972. Re-
ive Army duty in May, 1971,
second year of law school

ne Uni f Alabama. are
. - graduation from Harvard Law School
REIXACH, ‘JR, is now
a practicing attorney with Kaye, Sch oler,
Fierman, Hays and Handler in New York
City. He is engaged largely in the -anti-
- poverty
law work with the Community Law, Office in

 

  

  

Harlem as well as work with a dance com-

pany through: Volunteer Lawyers: for the

Arts. 7
| ] 967

Ropert SCHEELEN is secking | a master’ s degree

in psychology at the Institute for Behavioral |

   

Hn
tg

xper mental College. He is also
doing a work research project in the Mont-

-gomery County Public Schools | and lives in

Rockville, Md. |

(1968 | |

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Guy M. TownLey, a
daughter, Katherine Elizabeth, on Dec. 22,
A971. ‘Townley scrve .
ice in Vietnam. He is now with Townley’

 

 

m ilitary se serv.

 

a year of

   
 

MERRI Bra D, Te, is ‘practicing: faye
in Bangor, Me. nd the former Marlo

Garrett —_ f 7 arr

 

 

-
|
-

 

 

ford is a communications officer with a1
gincer ‘Battalion’ of the “Maine Nat

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Joun M. QUINN, De ee MARRIEi
daughter, Laura Elizabeth, on ‘April 24, ee a, Se ee ner on leg ‘24, 1972, ins “Austin,
1972. Loe is with the FBI in New aven, oe ee ee oe is, in his. first,

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

n Youngstown, Ohio, in 1919. He
past president of the National
tion of Retail Ice Cream Manufac-
id of the Southern Association of
) Manufacturers, and a member 7
a Dairy Technology Society.

   
  

      
        
 
    
    
 
    
     
 
    
 

tabula, where re mother ar a ne

7 - Civil War. rE BELKNAP Wairine, at eading

 

_ farmer, euche: and

  

1972. He was a former presi-
lvin- Jones Canah ery

1996 |

  

    

 
 

a “tal yf latter oe pe man time of. his
a death. He entered the > candy: and ice crear

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Cunningham >
tion awards for

‘ing: of, the A
among his. publ

Confederacy, ab
Ashby, and Confed

an in Silver City, N.M.,

: — Lestir: Read, Sate

e . fraternity. eae
a : | SrePHEN Tr Lupe, of

 
  
    
    
 
 
    
  
 
  

in. Roanoke, Va ay

 
 
  

Coast in 1936. A.

| | vice S resident of
Fremont College a

uoia University,

  

 

  

of General, a :

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANOTHER

 

SPECIAL
ALUMNI
CONFERENCE

NOVEMBER 16-18, 1972

THE TOPIC:
Washington and Lee Today...
Its Plans... Its Future

Much about your University is changing. It now has
exciting plans for continued development. The
Special Alumni Conference to be held November
16-18, 1972, is the fifth in a series of such confer-
ences designed to give a relatively small group of
alumni a three-day, in-depth look at every facet of
Washington and Lee. The conference will feature
small-group discussions that bring all points of
interest into sharp focus.

Past conferences have been highly successful, enjoy-
able, and worthwhile.

If you are interested in attending the November
conference, please write to William C. Washburn,
Alumni Secretary, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Directory — 1749-1970

 

WASHING TON AND. LEE
UNIVERSITY

It’s a Directory

ALUMNI DIRECTORY
Curb

 

It’s a Document

 

It’s an Answer Book

 

 

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni
Directory is now available at only $5.00 per copy, in-
cluding postage.

Question: Have you ever wondered whether the
father, the grandfather, an uncle of one of your
classmates also attended Washington and Lee?
You'll find this answer and much more in the new
Alumni Directory. Every person who attended W&L
from 1749 on is listed alphabetically, together with
his class, his degree, his address, and his occupation.

Question: Have you ever wanted a full list of the

members of your class or any class? You'll find it in
the Class Listing section of the Alumni Directory.

Question: Have you ever wondered how many W&L
alumni live in Cleveland, in Philadelphia, in Cairo
—anywhere? The Geographical List in the Alumni
Directory will tell you. If you’re passing through,
you can look them up.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be
without this valuable reference book in his home or
office. Use the form below to order your copy today.

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send mMe€..................05. copy(ies) of the Washington
and Lee University Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, in-
cluding postage.

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

Use Order Form Below:

ROCKBRIDGE CHAPTER—W&L
P.O. Box 948
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me the items checked below. Make
checks payable to Rockbridge Chapter—WeL.

[ ] Large ice bucket, $45.00 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Small ice bucket, $37.50 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Big tray, $15.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.
[ ] Round tray, $9.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.

City anid Stale oon isc intent cee PAD is pec ccdeivccrest
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

Payment of $ ...........000... is enclosed.

WASHINGTON
AND LEE

ICE BUCKETS
AND TRAYS

The Rockbridge Chapter of the Washington _
and Lee Alumni Association, by authority of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is offering these
handsome ice buckets and trays for sale to raise
funds for the University.

Manufactured by the Bacova Guild, they are made
of durable fiber glass and bear the Washington
and Lee crest in full color. The ice buckets have
hand-rubbed mahogany tops. They are a welcome
addition to any home.

All profit from sale of these items goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.
Income from the fund helps worthy students
attend Washington and Lee.

THE PRICES:

Large ice bucket (three gallons) $45.00 plus $2
handling and postage.

Small ice bucket (five quarts) $37.50 plus $2
handling and postage.

Big tray, (16x21) $15.00 plus $1 handling and
postage.

Round tray (14 inches) $9 plus $1 handling and
postage.

Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

>
~~) ee oan OC ae

i

——
vw — on

 

 

~

—_

-—_ — —— < . Am ee  i

 *{*§ ai

