, the alumni magazine of washington and lee university JULY 1978

rh
.

i es

pte
a eo
tt Ss ib 4 \
a Wf 4, 4 so 4 coat
si] Bee Ss j ws

     
 
  

   
  

.2
— -

its . 4 |! N
; Wh it, ; A rs ~ 4 Oy )
“if >4 ¥ x iyatn (7-- = )\

     

 

 

 

 

 

oh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 48, Number 5, July 1973

William C, Washburn 740.000.0000... Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68.............0.0000000ooccceccceeee Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter... ccc. Editorial Assistant
Robert Lockhart... ccc Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Four Professors Retire ........... veseesssersutesssiscuieacvascnatecs 1
Commencement 1973 .0000..cocccccceeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee. 6
Reunion Weekend ..........0000...ccccccccccceccceeeeeeeeseeeeees 10
Leggett Named ‘Trustee .0..00.00.0 cece 13
Lewis Hall Groundbreaking ......00000000000ce. 14
Graduating Sons of Alumni ooo... 19
A Case of Lacrosse Fever. o00000.00.00000cccccceececeeceeees 20
Lacrosse—The Friendly Game ..........000000000cccc. 26
Chapter News oo......0.cccccccccecceeccceeceeeseeerstestesersseees 29
Class Notes ....00occcccccccccceececccececsseeveseeveeecrseeeee. 30
Tr Memoriam 2.0... elec cccsnlicesactocsecseenadeens 35

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM H. HI tier, ’38, Chicago, Ill.
President

T. HA Ciarke, 38, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

‘THOMAS B. BRANCH, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
RIcHARD D. HAyngEs, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce Houcu, 59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
"THEODORE M. Kerr, 57, Midland, Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.

J. Tuomas ‘ToucnutTon, 60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

On the Cover: Four professors retired from the
classroom this year: Charles P. Light, Jr., O. W.
Riegel, Marion Junkin, and L. K. Johnson. To-
gether they had compiled 154 teaching years at
Washington and Lee. They have earned their rest,
but will be greatly missed. The sketches of the four
on our cover were executed by Jim Stanley, staff
artist for the Winston-Salem, N.C. Journal and
Sentinel.

<a

 

 

 

(
b
i:
~

~

 

ee
*

 

 

 

 

Aye, Charlie, Tom, Junk, and L.K..,
‘Parting is such sweet sorrow

Four of Washington and Lee’s
best-known professors—Charles P.
Light, Jr.,O. W. (Tom) Riegel, L. K.
Johnson, and Marion Junkin—retired
from the classroom this year after a
total of 154 teaching years at
WL. Riegel, Johnson, and Junkin
were named professors emeritus by
the Board of Trustees this spring;
Light was designated dean emeritus.
Robert S. Keefe, ’68, contributed
the following stories on them:

been. Not many other law teachers
have had as widespread and enduring
an influence at the bar and in the
judiciary.

The Chief Justice of the United
States sent a letter of appreciation.
So did an old friend and former stu-
dent, Lewis F. Powell, Jr. At a brief
ceremony on Law Day in May,
still another former student, Alex
M. Harman, now a Justice on
Virginia’s Supreme Court, came to
present a tribute in person. ‘The
spring issue of the W&L law school’s
student magazine carries reminis-
cences of Dean Light by Powell and
by still another former student,
Robert E. R. Huntley.

“Charlie Light moved the [law]

CHARLES LIGHT

When Charles Porterfield Light,
Jr., retired, the occasion was noted
by lawyers and judges throughout
the nation’s legal establishment. And
it was natural that it should have

 

     

*

Law student Jody Kline presents letters from Justices Burger and Powell to Dean Light.
July 1973

 

school forward in various ways,
Powell wrote. “He enlarged and
strengthened the faculty, made
significant changes in the curriculum,
and took an increasingly active role
in bringing Washington and Lee to
the attention of the profession na-
tionally.

“But most of all, those of us
privileged to have been his pupils
and friends ever since have felt and
appreciated the warmth and sincerity
of his personality. We have admired
the depth and dedication of his
scholarship.

“Our University has been blessed
to have had Charlie Light for so
many years.”

And President Huntley wrote:
“I’ve been his student, his faculty
colleague; he has been my dean, and
for a short while I was even his
dean. And most important ot all,
he has come to be my friend, a
friendship I treasure deeply. ...

“I remember when I entered law
school,’”’ Huntley continued, ‘Pro-
fessor Light taught me torts. His
boundless vitality and enthusiasm
for the subject rubbed off on even
the dullest of us students. He would
move constantly around the raised
platform, answering our unimagina-
tive questions just as if he’d never
heard them before, hammering home
his points with force — always with
a sure sense of where the edges of
the platform were. ...

“I bet he never taught the same
course the same way twice, never
thinking that he’d found quite the
right way to do it, and probably
never expecting that he would. He is
a great teacher, always getting better
instead of slowly sliding downhill,

  
 

, 0 WY

\ ee aT |
Sew ie.)
ee 4

   

to do....

“People have trouble being
pompous around him, even lawyers
and judges....

“And if this younger generation
is as smart as it thinks it is, they'll
get to know him — and be better
lawyers for it, and better people,
too.”

Light is a graduate of Virginia
Military Institute and of Harvard
University, and his field of teaching
specialization is constitutional law.
Significantly, more than 100 of his
alumni (the “Light Brigade’’) cur-
rently hold judgeships. Two of his
students were elected president of
the American Bar Association,
Powell and Ross L. Malone (both
of whom are now W&L Trustees).
Many of America’s largest corpora-
tions have Dean Light’s men as
their general counsel.

Like all deans, it seems, Light is
an amateur poet. When two of his
former students, H. Emory Widener,
Jr., and James C. Turk, took their
oaths as federal judges, having been
nominated to the bench by Presi-
dent Nixon last October, he was
moved to compose a verse (read
at the ceremony) that concluded:

‘Now, from their old teacher
of what’s called ‘Fed Jur,’
Pray accept this prediction:
They will judge fair and
sure.”

If dubious poetry is Dean Light’s
public avocation, then his “‘secret
love” (as Mr. Powell termed it in
his reminiscence) is the military. He
retired just 10 years ago as a Colonel
in the U.S. Army Reserves. While
on active duty in World War II, he

2

LIGHT: ‘People have trouble
being pompous around him.’

earned the Legion of Merit for
service with the War Department
and the Army Commendation Medal
for his service as Staff Judge Advo-
cate in Bermuda.

TOM RIEGEL
It was in 1930 that Tom Riegel

For 34 of the next 43 years he was
head of the Department of Jour-
nalism and Communications and is
generally credited with developing
it from a modest infancy into an
important center for educating

 

joined Washington and Lee’s faculty.

 

 

Tom Riegel gives joyful hug to former student Philippe Labro, French
journalist and film director, as Mrs. Riegel expresses happiness.

young journalists. ‘The W&L journa-
lism program as he built it reflects
both the smallness and the quality
which the University prizes: it is the
smallest accredited journalism pro-
gram in America and the only one in
Virginia.

Outside the classroom, his own
career has been remarkable. Before
coming to W&L he worked on news-
papers here and abroad, including
the Paris edition of the Chicago
Tribune. When he entered academic
journalism he turned quickly to
propaganda as an important kind

WeL

as
. tea
.

. -
wt eee

 

 

9

. clu ded. in m any ime

 

 

 

JUNKIN: For years at W&L,

he has been ‘Mr. Art.’

Among the most notable Junkin
frescoes is ““The Struggle for In-
tellectual Freedom,” completed in
1952, in the University’s McCormick
Library.

Since retiring as head of the art
department in 1968, he has devoted
much of his time to developing,
cataloguing and evaluating Wash-
ington and Lee’s permanent art
collection, and he has done much
restoration work himself.

Perhaps the most striking measure
of his impact on Washington and
Lee can be provided by a com-
parison of course offerings in art
then and now. As the University’s
first professor of art, Junkin taught
four courses—history of art; Re-
naissance art; ancient, Medieval and
Oriental art, and techniques of
painting and drawing. (One music
and one drama course were taught
by faculty members in other de-
partments.)

As he retires from teaching, the
department he founded offers more
than two dozen courses—13 survey
courses, 10 studio courses, and two
internship programs. ‘The faculty
numbers five full-time, two part-time.
(Music and drama are now a
separate department with five faculty
members and 40 course offerings.)
The scope of art at Washington and
Lee now extends from medieval
European studies and ancient
Chinese brush-painting to contem-
porary sculpture and American archi-
tecture.

In the early Junkin years, fine
arts students and teachers were
relegated to leftover rooms in Mc-
Cormick Library and the physics
building. In 1954, however, duPont

4

 

 

Hall was constructed primarly as an
art facility, and it has several
studios, an auditorium-classroom, a
gallery, office space, and special ac-
commodations for viewing the de-
partment’s collection of color slides
of representative art, begun by
Junkin—now 30,000 strong.

When he left Vanderbilt to return
to W&L, his alma mater greeted
him with an honorary degree, de-
scribing him in a way that is still
apt: Marion Junkin, the citation
read, is an artist “whose discerning
eye has perceived beauty and whose
knowing hand has created it, [and a]
teacher with a zeal to share the
satisfaction of the world of art.”

 

L. K. JOHNSON

Lewis Kerr Johnson used to tell
his students in personnel manage-
ment that an important distinction
between a well-managed company
and a poorly managed one is the
way employees view retirement. In
the poorly managed business, he said,
a career is looked on as nothing
more than “forty years and a god-
damned watch.”

So it was probably inevitable that
when he retired this year—after
exactly 40 years at Washington and
Lee—his students presented him with
a perfectly useless, handless watch.

But that wasn’t all. Behind his
back, his former students created a

 

Marion Junkin receives a handshake of best wishes at a reception for
him in duPont Hall, home of the department he founded.

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

JOHNSON: His ideals inspired the

scholarly fund to be awarded in his
name to W&L men who share his
ideals, and by Graduation Day they
had raised more than $20,000 toward
it. All in all, much more practical
than a goddamned broken watch.

The “forty years...” story is
just one of countless “L.K.” tales and
maxims that his alumni swap when-
ever they meet. Just as fraternity
members can exchange secret phrases
for recognition, so can L.K.’s men:
“Don’t just tell ‘em; tell ’em why”;
‘The seven reasons this is not a list
course are....”

The fondness with which his men
regard him has, if anything, in-
creased over the years. On the surface
it seems perhaps paradoxical, for
his values are supposed to be out of
vogue on campuses now. But L.K.’s
overriding quality has always been
a deep and personal interest in
his students, an interest he does not
abandon when they leave W&L—
an interest that remains cherished
by thousands of men who took his
courses and remember them, and
him, with enthusiasm.

At a testimonial dinner in May,
the comment was made several times,
usually with a degree of astonish-
ment, that students who had earned
D’s and F’s under L.K. revere him
no less than those who earned A’s
and B’s. (“He didn’t even discover
the B until after I’d graduated,”
one L.K. man said.)

An alumnus who attended the
dinner, Jack W. Warner of ‘T'usca-
loosa, Ala., president and board
chairman of Gulf States Paper Co.
(and a W&L trustee), recalled a re-
port on which L.K. had awarded a
grade that Warner thought was too

July 1973

 

gift of a scholarly fund.

L. K. Johnson displays a silver tray inscribed with the signatures of his

 

 

colleagues in the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

low. To prove that he really can
write successful reports, Warner told
L.K. that a Gulf States document

he had personally drafted had won
First- Place not long ago in a nation-
wide competition.

‘Their standards just aren’t as
high as mine,” L.K. retorted with a
laugh.

A graduate of Virginia and Ohio
State, he taught five years at Mercer
before joining the W&L faculty.
Professional regard for L.K. is hardly
limited to W&L men. He is nation-

 

ally known in the fields of market-
ing and personnel; his publications
include a major text, Sales and
Marketing Management (Allyn &
Bacon, 1957) and many articles in
personnel journals. He researched
and wrote Marketing In Virginia,
published in 1950 by the Advisory
Council on the Virginia Economy. In
1971 two monographs were pub-
lished: Administering Promotions,
Transfers and Seniority Rights and
New Perspectives on Employer-
Employee Communications.

by Robert S. Keefe

Class of ’73, largest and smartest;
Cook, Keller, Miss Penick honored

The largest graduating class in Wash-
ington and Lee’s history — 416 men —
received diplomas this spring as the Uni-
versity concluded its 224th academic year.

Three honorary degrees were confer-
red as well — on Fielder Cook, the televi-
sion and motion picture director whose
credits include The Homecoming, Harvey,
and Teacher, Teacher; the Right Rev.
Christoph Keller, Jr., Episcopal Bishop
of the Diocese of Arkansas, and Miss
Mary Monroe Penick, Lexington’s dis-
tinguished cultural and civic leader who
is the daughter of Paul McNeel Penick,
the long-time treasurer and trustee of
Washington and Lee.

Cook is a 1947 Washington and Lee
graduate, and Bishop Keller is a 1939
graduate. Miss Penick is an alumna of
Hollins College and the Julliard School
of Music.

Juris Doctor degrees, the successor to
the outdated LL.B., were conferred on 91
students in the University’s School of
Law. From the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics, 22 students re-
ceived the Bachelor of Science degree
with Special Attainments in Commerce
and 51 received the Bachelor of Arts de-
gree in economics or politics.

As usual, the College awarded the
largest number of degrees: the Bachelor
of Arts to 212, the Bachelor of Science to
39, and the B.S. with Special Attainments
in Chemistry to one man.

It was a commencement of many rec-
ords. In addition to being the largest
class ever, it was, by measurement of
grade-point averages, the smartest. More
students were graduated with honors
than ever before — 10 summa cum laude,
30 magna cum laude, and 80 cum laude.

Preserving Washington and Lee’s re-
markable record of good fortune, the
sun shone brightly on the Front Campus

6

ee

pe oe

ee
ew

-
co a
ee

*
$. +
Pd at
eer, fl
ek

s

¢ .
Y ;

‘ i

9 a

Pr *
* *
. ae

‘tee fF
x f 4

 

With President Huntley (second from right) are honorary degree recipients
Fielder Cook, Miss Mary Monroe Penick, and the Rt. Rev. Christoph Keller.

for all of Graduation Day, and it was
comfortably cool in the shade of the trees
General Lee planted. Almost nobody can
remember how many decades ago it was
when last a W&L graduation was spoiled
by rain.

PRESIDENT HUNTLEY’S REMARKS

By tradition, the commencement ad-
dress was delivered by the University’s
President, Robert E. R. Huntley. “We
look
stars and too little to ourselves for the

— you and I — too much to our

sources of misfortune, inequity and injus-
tice,’ the President told seniors and their
families. ‘““Even as we perceive that man’s
realm is not unlimited,” he said, ‘“‘still
circumstances remains our whipping boy.”

He noted that the once-fashionable
“mechanistic” view of events, described
as long ago as 1829 in an essay by Tho-
mas Carlyle, seems now to be on the
wane.

“Now, at least,” President Huntley

observed, ‘“‘many dimly perceive that the
world is not entirely man’s oyster, and
that there may be real limits to his capa-
city to control intelligently the physical
world around him. One hopes,” the Presi-
dent added, “that this may presage a
new-found humility.”

But “as might have been predicted,”
he continued, “one can begin to perceive
the signs of excess in our reaction against
mechanism. There may be a new tend-
ency to dethrone the province of the in-
tellect entirely, on the erroneous assump-
tion that its only domain is mechanism —
and to replace it with a misplaced rever-
ence for emotion and instinct.

‘ We exhaust ourselves,” the
President commented, “in vain searches
for the sources of authority so that we
may know whom to trust or whom to
blame, or perhaps so that we can share
some of it ourselves, or maybe merely so
that we can derive some passive comfort
from knowing that someone is running

WeL

0 ll, Calis, Mi see >.

a

+
8

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-
soos
OS
7 ee

 

 

 

7 oe —
SO
to

as

Rc

7

S
=
©
=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae

 

a

 

re - -
Oo

 

 

 

 

in both the amount contributed and the

percentage of Farris
Hotchkiss,

made a report on the University’s com-

participation.
director of development,
prehensive Development Program for
the ’70’s, which seeks to raise $36 million
by 1976 and $56 million by the end of
the decade.

At a luncheon following the meeting,
President Huntley brought greetings to
alumni and assured them that the Uni-
versity, despite changes to meet the de-
mands of a dynamic society, is unwaver-
ing in its dedication to its long-standing
educational ideals.

One of the highlights of Law Day
activities which coincided with the re-
union program was a ceremony honor-
ing Prof. Charles P. Light, Jr., upon
his retirement from
School of Law.

The ceremony was followed by the
John Randolph Tucker Lecture, deliver-
ed by Edward H. Levi, president of the
University of Chicago, a professor of

teaching in the

law and former dean of the University
of Chicago School of Law. His topic was
“The Collective Morality of a Maturing
Society.” The lecture will be published in
the Washington and Lee Law Review.

 

Albert Darby
Cumberland (Md.) News
Term Expires, 1975

Attorney

July 1973

 

Thomas B. Branch

Term Expires, 1977

 

At the ceremony for Dean Light, who
has taught law at W&L since 1926 and
was dean of the School of Law from 1960
to 1967 and in the spring of 1968, he was
presented greetings in letter form from
U. S. Chief Justice Warren E. Burger
and from Associate Justice Lewis F.
Powell, Jr., who studied under Light.
Also bringing greetings in person were
Virginia Supreme Court Justice Alexan-
der M. Harman, Jr., of Pulaski, a 1944
graduate of the W&L Law School, and
President Huntley.

Also a portrait of Dean Light, show-
ing him in academic attire, was unveiled.
It was painted by Scaisbrook Abbot, the
noted American artist, and will hang in
the law building. The portrait was com-
missioned by the W&L Law School As-
sociation and was presented by Richard
D. Haynes of Dallas, Tex., a 1958 law
graduate.

Another important event of Law Day
Weekend was the finals in the Burks
Moot Court Competition. Finalists in the
competition were Ray V. Hartwell of
Lexington, Caroline Watts of Brightwood,
Va., Charles J. Brown of Grundy, Va.,
and James M. Sturgeon, Jr. of Charles-
ton, W.Va.

 

Tom Touchton
Investments Partner
Term Expires, 1977

 

Charles C. Stieff
The Stieff Co.
Term Expires, 1977

The thrilling climax of the weekend
came on Sunday afternoon, when W&L’s
lacrosse team, then ranked sixth nation-
ally, defeated the 1972 national cham-
pions from the University of Virginia,
15 to 11. The victory gave W&L a third-
place national ranking and put it into
the university division of the NCAA la-
crosse playoffs.

 

A Tribute to Chris

Bill Hillier, upon assuming the presi-

 

dency of the Alumni Association, paid
the following tribute to Chris Compton,
the outgoing president:

“I have tried to think of how best
to describe Chris, and it is very simple,
but yet very profound. Chris is a gentle-
man in the best tradition of George
Washington and Robert E. Lee. I say it
is simple, but yet when you stop to think
of it, it isn’t simple, in a sense. Just what
does this mean? Well, with Chris, we see
first personal integrity, calm self-confi-
dence that comes from a long period of
careful study and careful self-discipline.
We see the highest moral standards and
the highest personal standards of con-
duct. In his relations with others we see

  

b

 

David L. Waters
Insurance Agent
Term Expires, 1975

ns

1]

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

eee aes

a

ee eee
Dee ee

TO ene

at

eee eee

 

 

- Leggett is elected a Trustee,

-

 

brings Board to full

H. Gordon Leggett, Jr. of Lynchburg, board mem-
ber and manager of personnel and public relations of
Leggett Department Stores, Inc., has been elected
to the Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee
University.

Leggett’s election came at the Board’s regular
spring meeting on May 26 in Lexington and was an-
nounced by Dr. John Newton Thomas, Board rector.

Leggett graduated from Washington and Lee in
1954 with a major in economics. After service with the
U.S. Navy, he joined Leggett Stores as a management
trainee, working in sales and store management posi-
tions for several years. In 1960, he worked in store
planning and construction for the Leggett group, and
in 1962 he was a trainee in accounting for 25 regional
Leggett stores. In 1967, he became assistant to the
secretary-treasurer of the group, and in 1968 was ap-
pointed personnel and public relations manager, the
position he now holds.

He has managed Leggett stores in Lynchburg and
Newport News.

In 1961, he was elected a director of Leggett De-
partment Stores Inc. He is also a member of the Man-
agement Committee and several other committees of
both the 67-unit Leggett group and Belk Stores
Services, Inc.

He is also a director of the National Retail Mer-
chants Assn., of United Virginia Bank/First National,
of Central Virginia Resources Inc., a division of the
Greater Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce, and of Miller
Home, the Lynchburg Female Orphan Asylum.

He is married to the former Miss Patricia Reid
Webb, and they have four children, Reid, 17, Susan, 15,
Jane, 12, and Carey, 6.

Leggett is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Harold Leggett,
and his father was one of the founders of the Leggett
group, which operates retail stores throughout Virginia,
West Virginia, North Carolina, Delaware, and Maryland.

The election of Leggett to W&L’s Board brings its
membership to 22, its maximum authorized strength.
Leggett will serve an initial six-year term and will
then be eligible for re-election to one additional term.

In addition to Leggett, five other W&L ‘Trustees
reside in Virginia: Dr. Thomas, the Board rector; W&L
President Robert E. R. Huntley; Supreme Court Justice

July 1973

 

strength

 

H. Gordon Leggett

Lewis F. Powell, Jr. of Richmond; E. Waller Dudley,
an Alexandria attorney, and Sydney Lewis of Rich-
mond, president of Best Products, Inc.

Other members of the Board are ‘Thomas D. An-
derson, a Houston lawyer; Joseph E. Birnie, an Atlanta
bank executive; Frank C. Brooks, a Baltimore business-
man; J. Stewart Buxton, a retired investment counselor
of Memphis; John L. Crist, Jr., a Charlotte, N. C., in-
vestor; Thomas C. Frost, Jr., a San Antonio bank
executive; Joseph L. Lanier, a retired industrialist of
West Point, Ga.; Joseph T. Lykes, Jr., a New Orleans
industrialist; Ross L. Malone of New York, General
Motors Corp. vice president and general counsel; E.
Marshall Nuckols, Jr., of Camden, N. J., Campbell soup
senior vice president; J. Alvin Philpott, a Lexington,
N. C., furniture manufacturer; Isadore M. Scott of
Philadelphia, chairman of the Tri-Institutional Facilities
Program; John M. Stemmons, a Dallas industrial pro-
perties developer; Jack W. Warner of ‘Tuscaloosa, Ala.,
a paper manufacturer; John W. Warner of Washing-
ton, D. C., Secretary of the Navy; and District Court
Judge John Minor Wisdom of New Orleans.

13

Campus News

 

Frances and Sydney Lewis dig in
to give new building official start

A groundbreaking ceremony on May
26, following the spring meeting of the
Board of Trustees, marked the formal
start of construction on Lewis Hall, the
new home of the W&L School of Law.

Frances and Sydney Lewis of Rich-
mond, whose gift of $9 million last year
assured construction of the new facility,
were present with members of their fam-
ily. They were presented special spades
with small inscribed plates which they
used to turn some of the earth on the
occasion.

Others turning a few bits of sod were
University President Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley; Ross L. Malone, chairman of the
Achievement Council committee concern-
ed with the law portion of the Univer-
sity’s decade-long $56-million Develop-
ment Program; Roy L. Steinheimer, Jr.,
dean of the School of Law; Dr. John
Newton Thomas, rector of the Board of
Trustees; and John M. Stemmons, chair-
man of the Achievement Council, the
group of committees which are carrying
out the Development Program.

Grading and landscaping for the new
building named for the Lewises has been
under way for several months. George W.
Kane, Inc., general contracting firm based
in Durham, N. C., has been awarded the
$5.7-million contract for Lewis Hall. Costs
of designing and furnishing the building
are expected to bring the total cost above
the $7-million mark.

The building, which will permit an
expansion of W&L’s law enrollment from
250 to 350, will be completed in 1975.
Its location is on previously undevelop-
ed land owned by W&L just to the north
of Wilson Field.

The new facility will be almost six
times as large as the existing law build-
ing, Tucker Hall, long outgrown by
W&L’s law program. Lewis Hall will con-

14

President Huntley (right) gives directions as groundbreaking participants look over
plans for Lewis Hall. They are (left to right) Mrs. Lewis, Dean Steinheimer, Mr. Lewis,
Mr. Stemmons, Projects Supervisor D. E. Brady, Dr. Thomas, and Mr. Malone.

Frances and Sydney take a turn...

 

 

WeL

 

——-. SSE
ww

a
|

 

 

tain five classrooms, a number of seminar
rooms, offices for 22 professors, and com-
plete facilities for activities such as Law
Review, legal aid, and legal research pro-
grams.

It will also house the Wilbur C. Hall
Memorial Law Library, with a capacity
of a quarter-million volumes and private
study carrels for each of the 350 students.
Lewis Hall will also have an innovative
175-seat auditorium for legal argumenta-
tion, designed to resemble an actual
courtrom and equipped with closed-cir-
cuit television and videotape facilities.

To date, Malone’s
raised $11.2 million against a goal of
$16.5 million for the law program alone.

committee has

In addition to constructing and equip-
ping Lewis Hall, the program calls for de-
velopment of a center for innovative
legal studies — to be known as the
Frances Lewis Law Center — as well as
added funds for student scholarships,
support for faculty salaries, and two en-
dowed professorships.

 

Gilliam-Phi Awards

 

Robert B. Brennan of East Williston,
N. Y., 1972-73 president of the Student
Body, was the winner of the 1973 Frank
J. Gilliam Award, presented annually to
the student who has made the most valu-
able contribution to University life. The
award, the most distinguished honor for
student service, is named for Dean Emeri-
tus Frank J. Gilliam in recognition of
his long and devoted service to Wash-
ington and Lee.

At the
Awards for distinguished service to the

same time Ring-tum Phi
University were presented to Dr. Lewis
Johnson, retiring professor of admini-
stration; Robert H. Yevich, superinten-
dent of the Journalism Laboratory Press;

July 1973

 

Award winners with President Huntley (second from left) are,Gerald Darrell,
Mrs. Betty Munger, Bob Brennan, Robert Yevich, and Frank Porter. (L. K. Johnson
was absent for the picture.)

Mrs. Betty Munger, manager of the
Washington and Lee Bookstore; Gerald
J. Darrell, manager of the University
dining hall; and Francis A. Porter, a
senior from Villanova, Pa., and president
Federation, W&L’s
community-service The
Phi awards are designed to recognize

significant contributions to the Univer-

of the University
organization.

sity community that generally go un-
recognized.

Yevich, who has been in charge of
the print shop since 1970, left that post
in June to join the stock brokerage firm
of Paine, Webber, Jackson, and Curtis
in Richmond, his hometown.

The awards were presented at the
annual Senior Banquet sponsored by the
Washington and Lee Alumni Associa-
tion. The principal speakers were Ross
V. Hersey, ’40, head of personnel for the
duPont Co. in Waynesboro, Va., who
spoke in a humorous vein, and Bill
Washburn, who ex-

alumni secretary,

plained the services of the Alumni As-
sociation and welcomed the graduates
into membership.

University President Robert E. R.
Huntley presented the Gilliam Award,
and Paul J. Lancaster, ’75, editor-elect of
the campus newspaper, presented the Phz
awards.

Brennan, a senior who majored in
English, is a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa leadership fraternity and Delta
Tau Delta social fraternity. He was also
a resident counselor in the freshman
dormitory.

 

Sloan Grant for Sciences

 

The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation has
awarded $40,000 to Washington and Lee
for development of a summer research
program in the natural sciences and
mathematics. The grant, which will sup-
port the program for a two-year period,
will permit W&L students to work in-

15

 

7 _ Winston-Salem, N Cy Washington
; Lee University will support the develop-

 

 

 

 

 

 

a Aided ay a Ber pa om tf
7 “Mary ‘Reynolds E Babcock Foundation | of

 

 

‘in _ Chinese

 

_ ment of a new ‘Prog ram
| ee - |

 
 

10 rogral sram—which may “eventually
; ndergraduate major in the
field—will focus on Chinese language,
cu ture, heritage, and “political and eco-

1omic characteristics. A number of
use in “Ghanese studies and einai

 

 

 

 

 
 

 
   

| he new } progr: d
tial, expansion of them as well as a

or cm 9 will a La direct

 

and |

studies, as oe as” advanced individua

 
 
 
 
 
    
     

   

e embers _ and: students ins

   
 
 
 

7 in oS with an
1inese ee us-

 

| The University also owns one of ‘the
most extensive collections of 18th and
/ 19th century Chinese — export. porcelain,

 

the 2,000 piece Reeves Collection, be-
queathed to it in 1967 by Mr. and Mrs.

‘Euchlin D. Reeves of Providence, RI.
‘In addition to_ ‘Chinese language,

courses taught at Washington and Lee
which are wholly or partly concerned
with China’ s culture and. heritage include
political, — social and econ

 

   
 

tion, and
eli ions. ‘Under, the

 

interest, paoqeap ‘courses in . Chinese e poli /

tics, economics and culture could be
added. An honors program in Chinese

 

 

 

am. oo in the reece wi will be

support faculty development enabling
the University to offer the additional
coursework. In addition, the Babcock
grant will support development of library
resources and language tapes and could

 

| enable WL to >: ibatiperate a series of

and visits by distinguished schol-

 

 

oe students f Oe the Gull ¢ on Corp.

ly y on Chinese

| by the co

SOC om ic history, .
‘Chinese Jiterature. in ‘trai ns]

    

. :

One of the functi

   

ns of the Student

 

Recruitment Committee is to raise funds
for financial aid for underprivileged stu-

dents. Gary Aver) of Atlanta, Ga., who
led the fund-raising project, said that it

 

had sent out nearly 70 requests to phil-
anthropic foundations but had not

mi nediate | Fesponse from

  

“Larry Evans of Pasadena, Tex., who
heads the committee, got in touch with
Gulf Oil over spring break, and the

 

_ company responded immediately.

Avery said that this grant: was the
first Gulf Oil has given to an eastern
college other than to those having size-
able constituencies of alumni employed
rporation. — | a
This proj ct, y said,
going on for four years, and achi

 

 

    
  
   
  
   
    
 
 

ter r subst sequent request,
Although the” “Student Recruitment
Committee is a student in ‘tion, Farris
P. Hotchkiss, Was

 

 

 

 

shington and Lee’s di-
Wel

 

 

 

 

 

rector of development, has been invalu-
able in an advisory capacity, Avery said.
Other students in the fund-
raising project were Jerry Godin of Brook-
haven, Pa., Reed Morgan of Norfolk, Va.,
and Bill Wallace of Harrisburg, Pa.

involved

 

A Tribute to Billy

This past academic year brought the
retirement of Dr. William M. Hinton,

 

professor of psychology, from the Uni-
versity Committee on _ Intercollegiate
Athletics. He served on the committee
for 25 years and was chairman most of
that time.

He was honored at a testimonal din-
ner in December at which he was pre-
sented a framed W&L monogram, a
monogrammed athletic sweater, a framed
certificate, and a bit of poetry. He was
lauded for his leadership of the commit-
tee and for his unswerving devotion to
W&L athletics, particularly for the re-
conciling influence he exerted during

 

W&L’s_ tradition to a _ nonsubsidized
athletic program.

Many alumni and friends were present
for the occasion, including All-America
football player Gil Bocetti, who led the
Generals to the Gator Bowl in 1951.

Dr. George Ray, associate professor of
English, succeeded Dr. Hinton as com-
mittee chairman.

Dr. William W. Pusey, III, professor
of German and former dean of the Col-
lege, composed a poem of tribute:

Now the time has come to tell

Billy Hinton just how well

He’s done his job, year in year out;

Of this indeed there is no doubt.

Of athletics a staunch friend,

On whom it’s known we all depend.

Dr. Hinton now gives up

His chairmanship; so drink a cup

In gratitude for his support

Of football, tennis, every sport;

Lacrosse and soccer, basketball,

Wrestling, swimming—name them all!

No need for sorrow of any kind;

Billy Hinton unwraps framed W&L monogram at dinner in his honor.
Prof. George Ray and Athletic Director Bill McHenry approve.

July 1973

He'll help us still with all his mind,
And heart, and soul, for thus it is
That Billy Hinton his service gives.

 

Faculty Promotions

 

Nine members of Washington and
Lee’s faculty—eight in the undergradu-
ate College and one in the School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics—have
received promotions in rank, effective
September 1.

Promoted from associate to full pro-
fessor were Drs. George H. Gilmer and
W. Barlow Newbolt of the physics de-
partment, Dr. George S. Whitney of the
chemistry department, and Delos D.
Hughes of the politics department.

Promoted from assistant to associate
professor was Dr. Ramsey Martin of the
philosophy department, and promoted
from instructor to assistant professor
were Norris T. Aldridge, John S. Emmer,
and Thomas H. Jones, all of the depart-
ment of physical education, and O. Ken-
neth Barnes, III of the drama faculty.

Dr. Edward C. Atwood Jr., dean of
the School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics, announced the promotion of
Hughes. The promotions of the others
were announced by Dr. William J. Watt,
dean of the College, W&L’s arts and
sciences division.

Dr. Gilmer holds the Ph.D. degree
from the University of Virginia; Dr.
Hughes, from the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill; Newbolt, from
Vanderbilt; Whitney, from Northwestern,
and Martin, from Virginia. Newbolt and
Whitney joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1962; Hughes, in 1963; Gil-
mer, in 1964, and Martin, 1968.

Two of the newly promoted assistant
professors, Aldridge and Barnes, joined
the W&L teaching staff in 1969. Jones

17

i Campus News

 

 

er’s format and content.
1 a Mat would be-

1e stu dent show ‘was , followed by a
man exhibit May 21. thra ugh 31, pre:
ig the works of senior art majc

 

 

 

 

7 —— sing

 

Boatwright i is Pa

> English Professor ome Boutwright
: was a Sasa at a Hiterary maga

 

 

 

 

he Ring-tum oo the University 5 a

 

 

} _ to suspend the newspaper
Board primarily be-
: “to ) student ques-

 

 

 

:
y

~~,
t

_

Graduating
Sons

 

da Ms Zs wht j i: halle! Te dee pein ie tes Sere ee So ae 8, , tae’ i: PM re OE LS Ee

Wo

Sons of alumni who graduated on May 31 are shown above and below. The fathers are seated in front of their sons. They are William
P. Ballard, ’31 (deceased), William P. Ballard, Jr.; Clarence N. Frierson, 46, G. Archer Frierson; T. Haller Jackson, Jr., 48 LLB, T.
Haller Jackson, III; James W. Priest, 43, Stephen G. Priest; Richard Lee Corbin, ’45, Stephen L. Corbin; George M. Spaulding, ’34, James
F. Spaulding; Ralph E. Lehr, ’41, Ralph E. Lehr, Jr.; Edwin H. W. Harlan, 45, Edwin H. W. Harlan, Jr.; Philip H. Milner, ’36, Philip H.
Milner, Jr.; E. Angus Powell, ’36, E. Bryson Powell; B. Elliott Brennan, ’35, Robert O. Brennan; Walter J. Wilkins, Jr., 41, Walter J.
Wilkins, III; Wilfred J. Ritz, ’38, Bruce S. Ritz; Garland S. Daniel, Jr., 46, Garland H. Daniel; G. Edward Calvert, 44, George E. Cal-
vert, Jr.; Frank Bell Lewis, ’32 (deceased), Frank Bell Lewis, Jr.; W. Harry Baugher, Jr., 44, Jeff K. Baugher.

: ; / i ge rs : j ,
A F ji A ? A i Pm) be . z og iz 7 ‘
P a ‘ S oe Ps J _ ti KE - © >
| ee Pe | ‘ S| ' a nxt Cae
rs * ’ 2 oy 4 pi i Pas
EA 3 E
a i * : é ;
‘ ba * * 3
Py 4 was ~ Be:
Py > A - ‘
' E
7 Ps _ _—
” a < = P 4% ae :
La 4 : “4 ‘ 3 A P

¢
eo r

ok a a (Bg hs
2 g e" wt 4 a oe

 

Lk ae

Henry J. Blackford, Jr., 45 (deceased), L. Price Blackford; William P. Peak, ’44, (absent), William P. Peak, Jr.; Everett W. Newcomb, Jr.,
45, Everett W. Newcomb, III; T. Hal Clarke, 38 LLB, T. Hal Clarke, Jr.; Roy Steele Thompson, Jr., 39, Gregory S. Thompson; Robert
E. Clapp, Jr., ’30, James H. Clapp; B. Lamar Winegeart, Jr., 52 LLB, B. Lamar Winegeart, III; G. Murray Smith, Jr., ’39, G. Murray
Smith, III; J. Gordon Kincheloe, 46, John T. Kincheloe; W. C. Washburn, ’40, Marshall P. Washburn. Not shown in picture are W. C.
Crittenden, 44, Richard C. Crittenden; James L. Dow, 49 LLB, Mark C. Dow; Edward J. McCarty, ’42, Patrick J. McCarty; Melvin R.
McCaskill, 40, Lee S. Thalheimer (stepson); Richard C. Vierbuchen, 50, Richard C. Vierbuchen, Jr.

July 1973 19

   

  

Athletics

W&L ends a great athletic year
with a happy case of lacrosse fever

es

W&L’s lacrosse season—the best in his-
tory—crowned one of the University’s
most successful years ever in intercollegi-
ate athletics.

The lacrosse team posted a 14-1 rec-
ord (16-2 counting the Hero’s Tourna-
ment exhibition games), defeated No. 3
the final
game, defeated Navy in the quarterfinal

Virginia in regular season
of the NCAA championship tournament,
and lost to Maryland, the eventual na-
tional champion and No. l-ranked team,
in the semifinals at College Park, Md.

Nationally, W&L was ranked fourth
behind Maryland, Johns Hopkins, and
Virginia. Among the top 20 teams, W&L
defeated No. 3 Virginia, No. 6 Navy, No.
10 Cornell, No. 12 Washington College,
No. 14 Towson State, No. 17 North Caro-
lina, and No. 20 C. W. Post. The only
losses were to No. 1 Maryland (in the
Hero’s Tournament and in the NCAA
semifinals).

20

 

During the year, overall, nine of the
11 W&L varsity teams had winning sea-
sons. In spring sports, W&L captured
the College Athletic Conference cham-
pionship for the fourth time in the last
five years. The tennis, golf, track, and
baseball teams all did well.

But it was lacrosse fever that really
hit Lexington. Both students and many
townspeople were caught up in the en-
thusiasm. Before the Virginia and Navy
games there was more old-time rah-rah
college spirit than the campus has seen
in many years. The students had a pep
rally, hung dozens of bedsheet banners
out of dorm and fraternity windows. ‘The
mayor of Lexington issued a proclama-

’

tion, declaring ‘Lacrosse Day,” and Gov-
ernor Holton sent a telegram of encour-
agement to the team.

A crowd of 6,500 turned out for the
Virginia game, which W&L won by the

surprising score of 15-10, and another

 

4,000 saw W&L defeat Navy 13-12 in a
second sudden-death overtime. This vic-
tory put W&L into the NCAA semifinals
against Maryland.

Responding to a student petition, the
faculty altered the final exam schedule
so that students could attend the semi-
finals game at College Park. And an en-
thusiastic crowd of students, Lexington
townspeople, alumni, and parents from
the Baltimore area cheered every move
by the W&L team. W&L was the under-
dog, but played valiantly, losing 18-7.
The crowd gave the W&L team a stand-
ing ovation when it was obvious the
game was out of reach and another stand-
ing ovation to goalie Skeet Chadwick,
when he left the game. He had 28 saves
in that game.

W&L placed five men on the first-team
All-America list—Sam Englehart at at-
tack, Ted Bauer and Skip Lichtfuss at
midfield, Don Eavenson on defense and

WeL

The lacrosse season came to a glorious
finish. At opposite left, Chip Tompkins
scores winning goal against Navy in
sudden-death overtime. And, at upper
right, the crowd went wild with a cele-
bration on the field as the Navy goalie
walks off in dejection. Below left,
Lacrosse Coach Jack Emmer receives a
congratulatory hug from his wife, Joan.
At below right, Wilson Field was filled
with cheering fans for the Virginia game.

 

July 1973

 

 

 

 

—

SS

Ss:

 

 

 

 

 

 

~e
are

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ton, Ww. Va, and Steve

s. C, and Bill Kalal, Garfield He

 

- Athletics

 

 
  
  
   
  
    
  

ey Ja — —- from
7 "J, Russell spoke at more

 

 

 

 

Captains in in WEL’ Ss other 10 varsity

= sports are:

"Baseball Jerry “Costello, Northamp-

t ton, Mass. ane Don Hathway, | Bethesda,

“Basketball-Skip Licnttuss, ‘Towson,

crosecountry Bill Kalal, | - Garfield

/ Heights, Ohio, and Stu Nibley, Westgate,
| ‘Mad.

" Football—Bob_ Brand, ‘Bethesda, Md.,
and, Bill Wallace, Roanoke, Va.

a _ Golf—Herb Rubenstein, Shreveport,

   

 

ington ‘Valley, Pa.
Tenn is—Sandy Lawrence,
phia, Pa. - aes
‘Track—Phifer — Helms, Spar anburg

 

 

| Ohio.

“ Wrestling—Doug Ford, East Islip,

UN. Ys Jim Stieff, Salamores Md.

 

, Philadel

ed WeL's Top Athletes

 

" Two-sport stars Don. Eavenson and

Brandon Herbert received the top athle-
tic avands 2 at i Wartanseen and Lee for
; fa otball and lacrosse

 
 

 
 

OL ney ‘received | their awards duri

tion certificates were presented to the
369 students who took part in the inter-

collegiate athletics during the year. That
| represents over 26 per cent of the over-
all undergr

aduate: male student boey of

 

1 402.

The 1972-7 3 athletic year was one
of the most successful in WkL’s history,
with the 1 varsity sports posting an
overall record of 106 victories, losses
and two ties. Nine of the 1] had winning
seasons, led by lacrosse (41), tennis (16.

 

   

Ds wrestling (18-5), swimming (10-2),

cross-country (9-1),

basketball (13-12),
SOCC track (5-2).

cer (6-2-2), golf (6-1) and

   

| ‘State championships were won in swim-
ming wrestling: and tennis; while con-

 

ns were captured in cross-

 

‘The top awards i in 1 each sport were:

- Baseball—Rod

 

-Ferrandino, McLe

  
 
 
 

  

\ N&L" s annual Spring Sports — Barbecue,
which winds up the athletic year. In_
all, 183 monograms and 186 participa-

- outstanding» golfer;

_ ton, W. acaaniaie awards fot

tions and for teamwor

Va., outstanding pitcher; Doug Clelan,
Harrisburg, Pa., outstanding contribu-
tions; Ellie Gutshall, Elkins, W. Va.,
leading hitter; Dave Traylor, Athens,
Ga., outstanding contributions. |

Basketball—Paul McClure, Memphis,

-Tenn., leadership and outstanding con-

tributions; Doug Clelan, Harrisburg, Pa.,
best — defensive player; — John Runge,
Davenport, Iowa, outstanding contribu-
tions; Skip Lichtfuss, Towson, Md., out-

standing | contributions. —

— Cross-country—Bob “Sherwood, Upper

‘Saddle River, N.J., overall contributions.

- Football—Marshall Washburn, Lexing-

se ton, ~Va., outstanding contribution on
- defense; :
leadership and sportsmanship; Jim Far-

 

Don Eavenson, Abington, Pa.,

ra, Lexington, Va., roughest and tough-

est; Mike Brittin, Great Falls, Va., most

improved; Steve Fluharty, St. Petersburg, |
Fla., outstanding contributions; Tom
Van Amburgh, Dallas, Tex., and Tim
Haley, Winchester, Va. outstanding

players, offensively and defensively, in

the 1972 Homecoming Game. _

- Golf—Alan Dozier, Virginia Beach, Va,
Bob Storey, Lexing- |
ton, Va., most improved. : |

 Lacrosse—Tim Winfield, Towson, Mad,
team spirit, desire and dedication; Ted
Bauer, Baltimore, Md., two awards for
leadership, sportsmanship and ability and
for recovering the most ground balls;
John Rogers, Baltimore, Md., selflessness

 

 

-and_ teamwork; Bob Brumback, Balti-

more, Md., most improved.

Soccer—Mike Shaeffer, Bethesda, Md. |
outstanding player; Barclay Armstrong,
Armstrong, Tex., outstanding contribu-
tions. 7
‘Swimming—Will Brotherton, | ‘Charles. a
‘the out

 
 
 
 

standing swimme

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- =O oe

Olean, N.Y., most improved.

Tennis—John Embree, Hinsdale, Ill.,
outstanding player.

Track—Paul Suthern, Fairfield, Conn.,
most team points, leadership and sports-
manship; Dave Estes, McLean, Va., most
improved; Frank Porter, Villanova, Pa.,
team dedication, loyalty and leadership.

Wrestling—Dave Powers, Williamsburg,
Va., performance, leadership and sports-
manship and Don Overdorff, Johnstown,
Pa., outstanding freshman.

 

Varsity Edges Alumni

 

In what turned out to be a defensive
struggle, Washington and Lee’s Varsity
football team edged the Alumni, 13-8, on
May 19.

The game was played Saturday morn-
ing on W&L’s Wilson Field, preceding
the NCAA championship quarterfinal la-
crosse game with Navy.

The Varsity scored a pair of touch-
downs, one on a two-yard run by Rob

Konwinski and the other on a 30-yard
pass-run from quarterback Jack Berry to
running back Mercer West, to build up
a 13-0 early lead.

But the Alumni fought back and
scored on a three-yard run by Phil Jones,
set up by a 25-yard pass from a familiar
combination: quarterback Steve Fluharty
to flanker Chappy Conrad. Fluharty hit
Jones with a two-point conversion to
end the scoring for the day. The second
half was a fierce defensive struggle, with
neither team threatening seriously.

Conrad and former basketball-track
star Mike Neer stood out as pass-receivers
for the Alumni. Neer, now a Navy ensign
and assistant basketball coach at the
Naval Academy, had returned to Lex-
ington for the W&L-Navy lacrosse game
(“I figured I couldn’t lose, no matter
who won”) and only then learned of the
football game. (Although he never play-
ed football for W&L, he had been All-
Metropolitan in the Washington, D. C.,
area in high school).

 

Alumni receiver Mike Neer hauls in a Fluharty pass in narrow loss to the

Varsity as alumni wives photograph the events.

July 1973

Unable to find any size 15 football
shoes, the indomitable Neer played the
game in basketball sneakers.

New W&L head coach Bill McHenry
was especially pleased with his defense,
citing sophomore linebacker Jamie Mc-
Inerny and secondary men Mike Brittin
and Jeff Opp, along with defensive line-
men Rick Kulp and Jon Markley and
linebacker Steve Van Amburgh.

On offense, McHenry was pleased
with the running of Jimmy Nolan, con-
verted from linebacker, and the quarter-
backing of senior Lewis Powell and
sophomore Jack Berry. “Our young, in-
experienced receivers hurt us some with
several dropped passes.”

Alumni Coach John Wolf, former star
linebacker, ‘commented, “It’s a tribute to
the W&L football program that so many
alumni would return, some from as far
back as the Class of 1964 and some from
as far away as Texas and Alabama, prac-
tice for only 15 minutes before the game,
and play as well.as they did.”

Wolf said the Varsity “has the nu-
cleus of a fine defensive team. They have
great spirit and are well-disciplined.
They looked good for only five days’ prac-
tice.”

 

1973 Football Schedule

 

Sept. 22 Hamilton Home

Sept. 29 Centre Home

Oct. 6 Hampden-Sydney Away
(Lynchburg Stadium)

Oct. 13 Randolph-Macon Away

Oct. 20 Western Maryland Home
(Homecoming)

Oct. 27 Sewanee Away
Nov. 3 Southwestern Home
(Parents’ Weekend)

Nov. 10 Denison Away
Nov. 17. Washington U. Away

25

by Richard Graham

If it’s friendly, fatiguing, fast,
and fun-it has to be lacrosse

 

* MaRS ERS SER SEE
Lacrosse team crosses Footbridge in pre-season campus romp
that helps keep them in top condition.

26

 

There are always plenty of things to do on sunny Saturday
afternoons in the spring. People picnic or wash cars or
cut grass, they watch baseball in stadiums or on television.
But in upstate New York or on Long Island or around
Baltimore, and increasingly in Lexington, they go to lacrosse
games.

The Indians who invented the game are long since dead
and may soon be forgotten if the current plastic and nylon
lacrosse sticks continue to prove better than hand-crafted
hickory and gut models, but no one is likely to forget
the smash lacrosse has made at Washington and Lee. Even
faculty members who don’t usually associate with athletics
turned out this year to see the Generals defeat the University
of Virginia for the first time since nobody knows when,
and the quad jocks who three years ago might have passed
their time throwing a baseball now play lacrosse instead.

Perhaps the sudden popularity of lacrosse is due to the
team’s success. The filling of Wilson Field two weekends
in a row may just be proof that, even here, fans will support
a winner. But more probably the game has flourished
because it presents on a interscholastic basis some of the
very things the University itself claims to be about.

For lacrosse is an amazingly friendly game, the speed
and the body contact notwithstanding. Since there just
aren’t that many places in the country where anyone is
interested, members of different college teams tend to come
from the same cities, the same high schools, and often from
the same neighborhoods. This means that the players
follow each others’ exploits with a real interest and that
games are more like reunions or contests to see who’s
improved than like confrontations with nameless numbered
opponents. One of the highlights of the W&L-Virginia game
was the rivalry between Washington and Lee midfielder
Ted Bauer and prep-school friend Owen Daly. Bauer had
six goals, so this round must have been his. A series of
summer leagues in which last season’s foe is this season’s
teammate adds to the camaraderie on the field. There is
passion in the play, but there are few arguments and few

 

Richard Graham is a 1973 graduate in English who
sat next to outstanding WeL lacrosse player Sam Englehart
in math class at Towson High School outside Baltimore.
He was also WeL Valedictorian, winner of the Algernon
Sydney Sullivan Medallion, and a recipient of a Fulbright
Scholarship.

Wel

ay

=
in ee

eo

w

 

 

 

x
e

Sux ge? ~

ESOS ees ABD rae aed ee
Attackman Dave Warfield (right) has friendly talk
with Virginia rival.
intentional fouls; it makes no sense to throw an elbow at
the guy who might turn up beside you at the first hometown
party you attend.

And lacrosse is a true amateur’s game, perhaps one of
the last. There are no pro leagues to get into, and, because
play covers so much ground so quickly, television contract’s
are impossible. There is only the joy of competition and
the exultation that comes to each player as he discovers the
power and grace of his own body. The game’s consistent
sprinting involves incredible physical demands, and Wash-
ington and Lee coaches past and present have made con-
ditioning a matter of great importance in their programs.
W&L teams can run with anybody, and the fact that they
seem to enjoy themselves so intensely adds to the image of
the game as pure sport.

The sheer fun of the thing carries to the fans, especially
those who feel they really understand the game. There are
few set plays on the field, and the pattern of endless variation
on the same themes holds the interest as other games seldom
do. Since few have a first-hand knowledge of the rules, it
may be well to note several things here. The action begins

with a face-off which resembles the tip-off in basketball or

July 1973

 

 

 

Skip Lichtfuss digs for ball in important faceoff

against Virginia.

the dropping of the puck in a hockey game. An official places
the ball on the ground at midfield between the backs of

the sticks of one player from each team. After his whistle,
these two players try to kick or shove the ball loose and
obtain possession. Two more players from each team join

in the initial scramble, but the other 14 men on the field
must remain out of the way until the signal is given that
one side has won control. Face-offs are the most brutal part
of the game, since there are few other chances for one player
to run half-way across the field into another player who

is completely occupied with something else. But they are
important because the team which controls them con-
sistently can set the tempo of play, running hard or waiting
a little as it will. When Washington and Lee has dominated
this aspect of the game this year, as it did against Virginia, it
has won handily. When it has had faceoff trouble, as it did
at Towson State and later against Navy, lesser opponents
have had W&L in a bind.

Body contact can be a greater or lesser part of lacrosse.
Some teams check frequently and hard and take pride in it.
Others tend to lean and push. In any case, any player who
has the ball and any player near a loose ball may be hit

27

Richard Graham,
the author

 

from the front and no player may be hit from the rear.
Though officials try to interpret this rule strictly, they are
more flexible with the rules that govern poking and slashing
with the sticks themselves. The spectator’s judgment will
almost always agree with the official’s if he allows for the
thick gloves and armpads the players wear and if he
remembers that a blow is legal if it does not touch the head,
if it comes reasonably close to an opponent’s stick or the
ball, and if the bruise it leaves doesn’t seem likely to be
noticed before the afternoon is over. Penalized players are
sent out, usually for 30 seconds or a minute, and their
teams play, as in hockey, a man down for that interval.

The game’s only intricate rule is that when a shot is
wide of the goal and goes out of bounds, the ball is put in
play again by the team closest to it when it crossed the line.
This explains the mad rush after a ball no one can reach
that so intrigues neophyte observers, and it explains too
why so many calls which no basketball referee would have
the heart to make are accepted without complaint by the
players. Packing up the goal in this way is equivalent to
controlling the boards in basketball. It has meant this year
that Washington and Lee’s fast attackmen have been able to
assure themselves lots of shots at the opposing goal, and
because General goalie Skeet Chadwick is quick enough to
turn and chase, it has also meant that the opposition has
had a minimum number of chances to score.

It is perhaps Chadwick’s play that has most determined the
rhythm of the game in Lexington this year. He and his

 

defensemen have worked so well that the rest of the squad
has been liberated to play a little more freely, to press for
a shot and move on offense without looking over its
shoulder.

Lacrosse teams have many different styles. Johns Hopkins
plays ball with finesse, and in the past couple of years fine
University of Virginia teams have done the same. Army and
Navy run hard all day and love to hit. The University of
Maryland, the joke always went, fielded 10 men who were
so big that it didn’t matter at all if they played as 10
separate teams. Be that as it may, Maryland was on top
this year.

But Washington and Lee was close all along, and the
team’s place in the national rankings climbed steadily.
Against Virginia, on a day so pretty and so festive that the
crowd would have cheered an oatmeal-mixing contest, the
Generals showed what they could do when everything goes
well. Against Navy a week later they showed they had the
poise to survive when everything goes badly. They won both
games, and in doing so they gave the college community
something new and exciting to watch. They gave it a bright
game, one it could understand quickly and one where all the
moves were in plain sight. They gave it a quick game,
one in which being big counted for little, but in which good
physical conditioning counted for everything. Lacrosse
is a game at which Washington and Lee ought to excell, and
it’s been on its way here for several years. This season it
came big to stay.

 

Goalie Skeet Chadwick makes one of his 28 saves in semifinals game with Maryland.

28

Wel

                       

 

.

 

chap

the

for

1S.

ture

fu

 

Jr.

 

Nuckols,

 

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
      
  
 

 

 

 

   
    
       
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
     
     

 

 

 

wane wet
- NASHINGTON AND LEE

 
 
  

 

 

192]
ELmMer A. Stuck is still very active in the
general practice of architecture which he

 

Jonesboro, Ark., and have celebrated their
50th wedding anniversary. He is an avid
fisherman and is active in community af-

fairs.
1924 |

Stuart A. MacCorKte ba Ss Tex., is

 

 

CHAIR

a Wi th Crest an Five Colors

| fr co 29

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

  

Bow | Ww. (CHitruM bas b bee

‘oe a he” e.

in 1926. He and his wife live in >

 

a 197 . :

  

| Joun SHC AE co

she apeake Public School F co:
ith col “Guatemala. as the “export development and

cutive | four-

/ temala, and in. June, 1973,

Huon P. Avery, president of the

  

L

ginia in 1957. In 1971 he was the recipient
of the Masonic Award as outstanding educa-
tor in Virginia. Chittum has served on the
State Board Advisory Committee for School
Construction, Plans and Specifications and
on the State Board Committee for ‘Distri-
bution of, State School Funds.

FRANK E. CALHOUN, after 32 years with the
US. Army Corps of Engineers, has retired
and is now in private engineering practice.

| Corps of Engineers he designed
and ‘constructed military and rocket facili-

 

  

a aed His: Bopbics are > restoring antiques and

of antique furniture.

1937

on R. Rca is now retired after 2

 
 
  

ud cable at Ha

 

npleted t his asignment in
tourism advisor to the government of Gua-

 

1 ment in Ecuador.

1939

  

he — and University Personnel Assn. and d i

 

of pers
| Technology, au assume duties of Director

onnel relations at Stevens Institute of

 

 

TI he new veh will in-
Y ersonnel , physical

 

: sans — ncn a3 ~ other related
functions. Before joining ‘Stevens Institute,
- Avery was with the Leslie Co. of Lyndhurst,

n d the pe a Pony | y League optimist
the ‘state championship.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WituiaM WHERRETTE continues teaching at

the University of Washington. After a sab-
batical year in Europe he is now director of

 
   
 

 
   

~ Roscoe B. STEPHENSON, Jee 4 an a
Clifton Forge, Va., has been named by V
ginia’s Gov. Linwood Holton as in Is
: 25th Circuit. The new _indee

 
    

WALLACE E. CLayTon has been named senior

vice president of J. Walter preps 4 Co.,
an advertising firm in New oe City.

(1945.

R. -Epwarp Jackson’ has been ‘named — the
first International Editor of Time |
ackson led a company task force to Ev
last summer that resulted in the creation.
this Spring of Time’s new European edi ion.

  
  
  
 
 

 

   

From his base in New York, Jackson, will ;

coordinate the overseas” editions. of Time
with the ‘parent magazine. For ten years,
Jackson was a United Press. correspondent
and editor in London as well as bureau chief
in Rome. In his 15 years with | Time he has
served as foreign news contributing editor,
Rome bureau chief, news editor and ae
chief of # correspondents. a |

1946.
M. PREssLy Mrap, having 1 retii ined
1972, from the U. S. Navy with the r,
captain, is now associated With ‘the 1
National Bank of penntyivania in Erie.

  

 

  

eastern Regional Ballet )
daughter, Vay, is eleven ar
taking ballet for seven years ies sae
dent at the Virginia Academy of B let. The
Academy “feeds” young trainees to the Vir-
ginia pat aad

 

 

< O. “Mansi, forme
tive from Virginia’s” seventh

| James w. Rozerrs, JR, is project I yan nager

of Arlen Realty and = De elopr
| Chattan ‘ooga

in the Duke Hospital.

 
  
 
 
   
    
 
 
 
     

 
 
  

 
 

Capt. ROBERT F. ConNatty, USN, was. re- c -
cently neheved as the commanding .
of et I g Branch, Cali basec

  

 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

been appointed by President oe to be.
come | ian Secretary for Levis
fairs. | -

    

ed to the Virginia State
served continuously until
President Nixon to” t

 

for Arlen Shopping Center oe a division

 
   
 

     
  
  

 

 

» Tenn. 7 Commission which. < hoveh ]

- 7 legislation for Virgini, it
gee
BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Je KENNETH ‘Rock-
WELL, a son Paul Ayres, II, on May 5, 1973

 

 

  
    
   

 

mS of [Nos is now a

 
 
 
  
 

VILSON, om, is -servina as a : m
of the Kentu k y Bar Assn. bo.

1955

aldo c. Cueskore is. in investment ]

 

 
 
    

ra “| Dr. MicHarn R. Duan | was “inducted as a a

i of the Unik | fellow in the American College of Physi- |
ty Board of Trustees. Powell, » | cians. Dr. Dubin is the med ical di
opt iam: | the Respiratory Therapy Depart |
a Community Hospital at Glen | Co TL,
post, said he was honored to join | N. Y. He is also a fellow of the Ameri.
the list of “such distinguished pre- can College of Chest Physicians and an as-—
| ra rs.” . sistant professor i ica ine at |
ae | State University of New York. “He se
medical company commander w he

  
 

 

   

      
 

 

 

 

  
 

nains active in ae Oo

 

 

 

ip -.

.

-

:

/

| ;

i

ih

Hi

oo

‘co

.

r

-

ooo

Git

ee

Vs.

-

:

oe

;

:

-

ih:
-

a

te

a. ¢

 

 

7 oe | ; a : | / ; : 7 - — a - - ; / : is : a } : . | . / / | - 7 / , J - A : ; . £ . : ac- |
_ S$. REINER is vice pres of Warren of Su ) iey’s Office tive duty with the U. S. Navy in July 1971.
_ BRORGE:> ee eet ae WI,N.Y. He completed his. sncy at the Univer-

 

 

 

"LAWRENCE
“the Legal

ee

Dra a arr pte

   

 

LU

7

ok a ae

- +
ie

 

 

 

       

- Mr. and Mrs. oe
ona. daughter, Alexar |

young lady joins an ‘older sister. TT
_lives in Nottolke on

a Gade, Francie "Tynn, on “Oct. a, “1972.
The family lives in Virg Beach.

F. W. Bove is Sn ee 2 senior | engine

a mule Hospi in ca
at Massachusetts General H

1965,
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GREGO L. Et
a son, Geoffrey Michael, on “Aug. 5,
Euston is hardline merchandise 1a
Sears" Roebuck at Texai

WItiaM Gray BRoApbus, an.
attorney general, was appointec
County attorney and will | -assu

If you wish to receive

the weekly campus news-

 

paper The Ring-tum Phi,

please fill out the coupon

eee

 

at the right and send it

 

with $6.00 to:

to VPI to
In- additi

Ja F. WILLIAMSON, Jr. is
his thesis for the degree of |
tecture of the Uni \

Lee and he visited the campus
in this connection. : =

Leon D. Karz has. ;
physical a in

 

 

   

REV. STEPHEN J. WALLER was ordained a
priest in February in Ruston, La., at the
Church of the Redeemer. He is staying in
Ruston as Curate of the Parish and Chaplain
at Louisiana Tech University and el

bling College.

 
 
  
 
  
 
  
    
    
    
 
 
 

 

 

a Among the award recipients at Union Theo-
SAMPLE, after “receiving his MBA logical Seminary’s commencement was JULIAN
‘he University 0 of oe is now w. _WALTHALL. walt received the Salem

y nternational 1 | ished i in 1 1921 by the Pres-

 

  
   
 

 

 

 
 

— company ‘out of Dallas, Tex. 1
stationed in the southern New Jersey and
penneylvanis office and ives in Cherry - Hill,

C orrespndents

58 m4 Arl- Jac
| ‘89, 17

ksonville—John G._ 4114
McGirts Biva., "acksonville, ina ‘sti

City William N. Leedy, "49, 814
gas s City, io. eitts

“travols Road, Louisville, le, Kentucky “26207

    
 

 

’

 

Mid-South—J erome Turner, 164, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis, Tenn. 11
Mobile--H ‘vey E E. Jones Jr., 64, 204 Walsh-
aeood. Mobile, . Ala. 4

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, 33, 2134 Rose-
_mont Drive, cae Tee Ala. 36111 |
wee 8 Slidell, ia. 10258

     

 

      
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

 

Jr.,

ale , Hugh S. Glick-
wood Blvd., Holly-

 
 

Fila. 33130
Houston—Fred B. Grigin, | ),
“Houston, * Texas 77027 -

 

for presentation at the National Student

¢ his

 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
  
 
  

Homer F. GAMBLE, a junior in the College
of Medicine at the Medical University of
South Carolina, has had a paper accepted

Forum Competition. The forum is spon-
sored jointly by the Student American Medi-
cal Assn. and the University of Texas Medi-
cal Branch. Gamble has worked during the
last two years on the bio-chemical basis and
new means of therapeutics for lead poison-
ing. The Paper ened “Lead-Induced Hy:
pomagn m a eens ae |

 

       

 
 

 
  
 
 
  
 
   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
   

 

clas in the "alee of Medicine and
re pres he 150th 2 on _the year-

    
 
  
  
    
  
 
  
  

MBA Soni Duke, j is now a first lieutenant
on active duty as an operations research
vie and teacher at the Army Logistics
Management . al Fort Lee, Va. _—

STEVEN Fr ‘UntTL has graduated from Cornell
Law School and is Practicing | in Atlanta. In

..

 

Ss. Beanie, Jr., ’40,—
Newport News, Va.

Peninswla—Dr. Frank
oe . ., Mallicotte Lane,

 

Anderson, S.. 29621
Southern CaliforniaFrank A. /MeCormick,

 

53 475, Beiean ta Ana, Calif.
Southern Ohio—Stanley Hooker, ‘Sr... 39, {1185
Beverls ‘Hills Drive. on iti, Ohio 45226
"50, 37 uth Florence,

Tulsa—Neil Mc) Neill,
Tulsa, Okla. 74
Street, Boek Ma 30
0 1 J L

 

 

 

L. W. Turner, III, ’72

September 1973 he begins a_ three-month
tour of duty with the Advocate General
Corps in Indianapolis, Ind.

1971

MARRIED: Rosert G. Woopwarp to Cath-
erine Eagles on Aug. 12, 1972, in Wilson,
N. C. Among the groomsmen were Mike
Riley, ’°71, Byron Seward ’70, Randy Hutto
‘70, Donald Cartwright ’72 and Curt Jami-
son °70. The couple now lives in New
Haven, where Woodward is attending Yale
Law School.

MARRIED: ‘THOMAS N. BEAZLIE to Mary
Lee Goodwin on Aug. 12, 1972, in Hampton,
Va. Beazlie is in his second year of medical
school at the Medical College of Virginia.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JACKsON H. Ross, a
daughter, Sara Elisabeth, on Jan. 7, 1973.
Ross is serving aboard the U.S.S. Newman
K. Perry, homeported in Falls River, Mass.

The Harvard Business School can not keep
JAMES EASTERLIN busy enough. After a year
on an economic fellowship at the University
of Cologne, Easterlin is now in his first year
at Harvard. He is using his skills to analyze
computer models for the finance depart-
mont of BASF, a large multi-national firm.
He will be involved in the problem of
valuing companies for acquisition by the
giant chemical firm.

Ensign CHARLES D. ANDREWs, USNR, is Dis-
pensing Officer aboard the U.S.S. Ticonde-
roga.

Davip P. CuRistovicH is working on a mas-
ters degree in fine arts in theatre at the
University of Connecticut.

JorL A. FuLmer, IV, is vice-president of Ice
Nine Ventures in Memphis, Tenn. He was
married in 1971 to the former Kathy Crilley.

Hucu F. Hit, III, is finishing his second
year at the Medical College of Virginia. He
was named project director for the Student
American Medical Assn.’s video tape, educa-
tional and communications effort—the SAMA
Video Journal. This past year he worked
part time for a cancer researcher in develop-
ing an oncology course.

FRANK G. SELBE, III, upon release from the
Air Force, expects to receive an MBA from
the University of Utah, College of Business
in August 1973. He and his family will then
move to New York where he will enter New
York University’s School of Law to pursue

July 1973

an LLM in taxation. The Selbes have two

sons.
MARRIED: Gerorce H. BALTHROP to Sharon
Jane Parker of South Boston, Va., on May
19, 1973. Balthrop is practicing law in Ar-
lington, Va.

Ensign PETER M. SOMERVILLE expects to re-
ceive his Naval Flight Officer’s Wings at
Corpus Christi in July, 1973.

Lawson W. Turner, III, formerly an as-
sociate of the law firm of Williams, Martin,
Taylor and Fralin of Lynchburg, Va., has
been named assistant vice president, coun-
sel, and assistant secretary of First Colony
Life Insurance Co. Turner is a member of
the Virginia Bar Assn., the American Bar
Assn, and the Lynchburg Junior Bar Assn.
He and his wife have one daughter.

RoBERT P. ZISGEN was admitted to the New
Jersey Bar in November, 1972. He was on ac-
tive duty at Ft. Benning, Ga., until February
1973. He is now an attorney in Newark.

1973

JAMEs G. HARDWICK expects to receive his
BS in accounting from VPI this summer.
He will begin work with Arthur Anderson
and Co.

 

In Memoriam

 

1903

ABNER KILPATRICK FLETCHER, JR., a great-
great-great-grandson of Thomas Harrison,
the founder of Harrisonburg, Va., died Apr.
19, 1973. He was born in July, 1880. After
attending Washington and Lee, Mr. Fletcher
received a degree in pharmacy from the
Richmond Medical School. He and-his broth-
ers operated the Fletcher’s Drug Store in
Harrisonburg for over 50 years. A member
of the First Presbyterian Church, Fletcher
taught Sunday School for many years, held
numerous offices in the church and was a
former member of the Session.

1904

FRAMPTON ERROLL ELLIs, prominent attorney
in Atlanta, Ga., died May 2, 1973. He was a
former Fulton County administrator and
was on the board of directors of the Geor-
gia Savings Bank and Trust Co.

1907

Dr. HENRY W. TIFFANY, a Baptist minister
in Norfolk, Va., and a former member of the
executive committee of the Southern Bap-
tist Convention, died Dec. 14, 1972 in Nor-

folk.
1908

ROBERT CLAY MILLING, a prominent attorney
of New Orleans, La., and at one time a
special assistant U. S. Attorney, died Apr.

15, 1973.
1913

HERMAN LAVIER MICHAEL, a supervisor for
over 40 years with Union Manufacturing
Co. of Frederick, Md., died Aug. 7, 1972. Mr.
Michael retired as secretary of the Fidelity
Building and Loan Assn., at the Frederick
Town Bank & Trust Co. and, at the time of
his death was a member of the board of
directors at the Fidelity Building & Loan

Assn.
1914

CoL. WILLIAM H. NEBLETT, USAF, Ret., died
Apr. 14, 1973 at the Veterans Administra-
tion Hospital in Sepulveda, Calif. after a
long illness. Col. Neblett had practiced law
in Los Angeles since 1919. He was chief
counsel, Record Publishing Co., 1931; for
the U.S. Senate Special Committee Investi-
gating Receivership and Bankruptcy Pro-
ceedings, and Administration of Justice in
Federal Courts, 1933-36. During World War
I Col. Neblett served with the Army and re-
ceived special citations from Gen. Pershing
and Maj. Gen. George Bell. He was recalled
to active duty with the Air Corps, U.S. Army,
in June, 1941, and served until March 1947.
Among his many assignments he was on
Gen. MacArthur’s staff in the South Pacific
Theatre. During World War II he was
awarded the Silver Star with Oak Leaf Clus-
ter. He retired from the Air Force Reserves
in 1949. Col. Neblett was a member of Bars
of Supreme Court of the U.S., Court of Ap-
peals, District of Columbia and the State
Bar of California and New Mexico. He was
a life-long Democrat and was a delegate to
the Democratic National Convention in 1932

and 1936.
1915

RICHARD B. LOUGHRAN, of Biltmore Forest,
N.C., died Apr. 26, 1973. Mr. Loughran
practiced law in Asheville, N. C., from 1913
until 1917 when he entered the U. S. Army
where he served as a lieutenant during
World War I. Upon his return to Asheville
he joined his father in the real estate man-

35

  
   
     
   
   
    
 
   
    
  
   
   
   
     

: rOoN O ov a an ‘attorney. for
m ployment Security Commission, died
26, » 1973, in tae one N. C. Mr. Over-

 

 

+ prominent _ banker of

 

 

 

 

She and her husband “developed
the extensive and lovely, ga
Belfield. She was also active in
charitable work and in the work
of the R. E. Lee Memorial Episco .
‘pal Church.

dau
Johnson, Jr. and Louise Glass
_ Johnson. She was educated there
and received the 7 7 de
Randolph-Macon | Womar

for the

 

Mrs. Gilliam Dies

Louise Fontaine Johnson Gil- —
liam, wife of Dean E
_ J. Gilliam, died on May 27 at her ©
home in Lexington after a long ill- |
— ness. She was: buried | in | Stonewall . 7 |

meritus Frank

 

 

 

She was born in Lynchburg, a
ghter of the late Fontaine D.

 

 

 

  

   

; hortly after” her ot

.

   

n in 1926, where he be-

 

ardens of |

ne from - tor Contractors Assn.

an’s Col- |

: marriage to
Dean Gilliam in 1924, she went
with him to the Belgian, Congo, —
| where he was director of education |
Southern ‘Presbyterian
“Mission. When, her health requir-
ed return to a non-tropical | cli-
_ mate, she and her husband came
| to Lexi et -
- ban his. song tenure at Washington

 

 

 

1927 —

JAMES SILAS BROOKE, JR of Mobile, Ala.,

died Nov. 19, 1972.

 

1934

| WALDO Brices UTLEY, president of the Utley
Paint Co. of New Orleans, La., died May

15, 1973. During: World War II Mr. Utley
was a captain in the Transportation Corps
i was a member of the New Orleans Ro-

Club, Bienville Club, National _ Assn.
of ‘Homebuilders and Painting and Dec

 

 

 

Grand Way. Division of Grand Union Co. in
Paramus, N. J., died Dec. 28, 1972. Mr. Hal-
per served with the U. S. Army in 1956. He
had been in| ral merchandising busi-
ness since graduation.

STEPHPN DAVENPORT - McEtroy, jr. died in an — :
accident in March 1973. At the time he was 4
living: in Hous n, Te .

 

 

  
 
   
  

JOHN Garower
his home Apr. 18, 1
the University « * | ¥

“He | had attended
School of fhecie

 

- Wel

  

  

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays

 

The Rockbridge Chapter of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, by authority of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is offering these
handsome ice buckets and trays for sale to raise
funds for the University. Manufactured by the
Bacova Guild, they are made of durable fiber glass
and bear the Washington and Lee crest in full
color. The ice buckets have hand-rubbed maho-
gany tops. All profit from sale of these items goes
to the scholarship fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14. Income from the fund helps worthy
students attend Washington and Lee.

THE PRICES:

Large ice bucket (three gallons) $45.00 plus $2
handling and postage.

Small ice bucket (five quarts) $37.50 plus $2 handling
and postage.

Big tray, (16x21) $15.00 plus $1 handling and postage.
Small snack tray (12x17) $10 plus $1 handling and
postage.

Use Order Form Below:

ROCKBRIDGE CHAPTER—W&L
P.O. Box 948
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me the items checked below. Make
checks payable to Rockbridge Chapter—WeL.

[ ] Large ice bucket, $45.00 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Small ice bucket, $37.50 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Big tray, $15.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.
[ ] Snack tray, $10.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.

IO lbs.
POO ior occ eiietoeseesaverens
City and Stale. irs oe...
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.
Payment Of $25.04... is enclosed.

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W
of
CL

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $32.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

