JUN 2 7 1974

MAY 1974

iversity

d lee un

ine of washington an

umni Magazine o

al

 

-
‘
.

~
o

 

 

 

Library of
ashington and Lee Universi

Lexington, Va.

io

Fe

es Peg

Ae Se

SS
ad

Pte nae
RBS ees,

“ait

ey

25°

sb

ee

s/

>
Pe

.

4

Sa
‘

%

ete
ist
whoa

 

 

 

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 49, Number 4, May 1974

William C. Washburn 740.000.000.000. eee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68.........0.0000000..eee Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter...........0 cece Editorial Assistant
Robert Lockhart, 7°72... ccc eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Cole Bequest to Law School .............: 1
Mountain Gap School Dedication ........................ 2
Distinguished Alumnus Awards ...............0.:00 4
Spring Reunions in Pictures ...........0.. ee 6
New Alumni Offficers 0.0.0... .00...ccceccceeeeeeee teens 8
“The W&L 500? iii eeeeee 9
W&L Students in Boston Marathon. ...................... 10
Chapter News ......cccccccccccee ee cee teeter 12
Alumni Notes oiccccccccccccc cece cece eee tecceeeeeeeeeeeeees 15
Class Notes .........0000.cccccccceee ees Geng eseesugtutescssrasdss¥dquics 16
In Memoriam .....................000. decetcheeriesteutiebesssisdeacees 22

Lost ALUMNI .....0.o.cccc ccc ccccecceccecceccucceeccuceceeceecenceneeens 24

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EvERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.
President

RIcHARD D. HAyneEs, 758, Dallas, ‘Texas
Vice President

C. Royce Houeu, 59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Tuomas B. BRANcH, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, JRr., 43, Cumberland, Md.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
SAMUEL B. HO tis, 51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
‘THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, ‘Texas
CourTNEY R. Mauzy, Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, 45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ‘ToucutTon, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

putt
——

ON THE COVER: Dean Emeritus Frank J. Gil-
liam, °17, (center), accompanied by Howard D.
Leake, ’24, and Mrs. Leake of Birmingham, Ala.,
stroll at their leisure toward Lee Chapel to attend
the annual meeting of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association, at which the first Distin-
guished Alumnus Awards were announced. For re-
ports and other pictures of activities during Spring
Reunion Weekend, 1974, see Pages 4, 6, 8, and 15.
Photograph by Robert Lockhart, ’72.

 

 

Cole bequest of $400,000 made
in honor of 1920 law graduate

A portion of his estate expected to be in excess
of $400,000 has been bequeathed to Washington and
Lee’s School of Law by Dr. John E. Cole of
Fredericksburg, Va., who died March 19.

The bequest was made in memory of Dr. Cole’s
brother, William Benjamin Franklin Cole, a 1920
law graduate of the University. William Cole died
in 1964 after a career as a school teacher, newspaper
reporter, sailor and, ultimately, Commonwealth’s
Attorney in Fredericksburg, a post he held nearly
40) years.

The University said the Cole bequest would be
added to the endowment in the law school portion of
the current development program. Income will be
designated for faculty salaries in the School of Law,
in accord with Dr. Cole’s wishes.

With the addition of the Cole bequest, the law
school has received $11,368,000 toward its 1976 develop-
ment objective of $13,125,000. Funding for the new
law building and for necessary endowment to support
an expanded academic program is being sought by
a special committee of 10 alumni who are working
with W&L ‘Trustees Ross L. Malone and E. Waller
Dudley. Malone is general counsel of General Motors
Corp.; Dudley is a member of the Alexandria law
firm of Boothe, Prichard & Dudley.

In all, Washington and Lee’s development program
has raised more than $23.5 million toward its overall
objective of $36 million by 1976.

Dr. Cole, himself a graduate of the University
of Virginia, included Washington and Lee in his
will because of his brother’s extraordinary affection
for his alma mater. Also sharing in Dr. Cole’s estate
were the medical school of the University of Virginia
and the University of Richmond, where William
Cole received his undergraduate education before
entering W&L’s law school.

Said Martin P. Burks of Roanoke, chairman of
Washington and Lee’s Estate Planning Council:

“Dr. Cole’s bequest to Washington and Lee speaks
clearly not only to his lifetime devotion to his

brother, William Benjamin Franklin Cole, but also

to his strong interest in the future of private education
in Virginia.” Burks is general counsel of Norfolk

and Western Railroad.

May 1974

 

Dr. John E. Cole, the donor, wearing a hard
hat at the groundbreaking for a bank
of which he was a director.

 

W. B. F. Cole in whose memory
the bequest was made.

by Robert S. Keefe

Hall's ‘little red schoolhouse
is dedicated in his memory

Virginia’s last one-room school-
house was dedicated this spring in
memory of a Washington and Lee
alumnus and benefactor who had
guaranteed its preservation by _ be-
queathing it to the University when
he died.

Ceremonies and an old-fashioned
picnic lunch at Mountain Gap
School, near Leesburg, honored the
late Wilbur Curtis Hall, a 1915 law
school alumnus who in his will left
Washington and Lee an estate valu-
ed at more than $1 million—plus one
“little red schoolhouse.”

Hall, known as the “Winston
Churchill of Leesburg,” purchased
Mountain Gap School after it ceas-
ed operation in 1953. He planned its
restoration and preservation as a
museum reflecting the kind of edu-
cation he had received there him-
self.

Hall left two instructions to
Washington and Lee: preserve the
past, as symbolized by his little red
schoolhouse, and prepare for the
future, by realizing his _ fondest
dream for Washington and Lee—
construction of a truly adequate li-
brary for the School of Law.

And so W&L carried out his first
wish, deeding Mountain Gap School
to the National Trust for Historic
Preservation, the nation’s premier
organization of its kind, last fall.

His second wish is being carried
out as faithfully: the Wilbur C. Hall
Memorial Library is a major element
in the University’s new law build-
ing, Lewis Hall, begun last year and
scheduled for completion in 1975.

The National ‘Trust will integrate
the one-room schoolhouse into activi-
ties at Oatlands, a 260-acre estate

2

across the road from it, where Hall
lived as a child. Oatlands was donat-
ed to the National Trust in 1965 by
the William Corcoran Eustis family.

At this spring’s festivities mark-
ing the dedication of the little red
schoolhouse, a plaque was. unveiled
jointly by Washington and Lee and
the National Trust to mark Mr.
Hall’s generosity permanently. Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley was the
principal speaker at the ceremony,
attended by a large number of Moun-
tain Gap graduates, four former
teachers at the school, representatives
of local and state education boards,
Hall’s colleagues at the Loudoun
County bar, and many of his friends.

In his remarks, President Huntley
spoke of Hall as “a very wise and
very generous man,” and emphasized
the mutual interest shared by both

7
, On

IRisy fr
Me Hig,
ORy.

GAp

CA fay

Hall and Washington and Lee in
historic preservation. It was shortly
before Hall died in 1972 that the
Washington and Lee Front Campus
area was designated a National His-
toric Landmark, and the Univer-
sity’s current Development Program
has earmarked $1.3 million for re-
storation and preservation of the
ante-bellum Front Campus _build-
ings.

Also speaking at the dedication
ceremonies was David E. Finley,
chairman of the National ‘Trust’s
board of directors from 1949 until
1962 and a founder of the organiza-
tion. In thanking Washington and
Lee for its crucial role in preserving
Mountain Gap School, Finley re-
marked: “The ‘little red _ school-
house’ long has been an American
institution, and today this particular

 

 

 

 

Mountain Gap School is preserved as Wilbur Hall wished.

Wel

schoolhouse assumes a _ permanent
place among our nation’s historic
structures.’

During the ceremony, B. Powell
Harrison, chairman of the Oatlands
Council, which will have immediate
jurisdiction over Mountain Gap
School, announced that the building
and other historic buildings in the
immediate Oatlands area had been
placed on the National Register of
Historic Places. Earlier in the year,
the same buildings had been desig-
nated State Landmarks by Virginia’s
Historic Landmarks Commission.

The schoolhouse retains its old
Acme Giant stove, gabled roof and
clapboard walls—and_turn-of-the-cen-
tury textbooks sit on the 1872 dou-
ble desks. “It stands as a reminder
of a bygone era in American public
education,” commented James Bid-
dle, president of the National ‘Trust.

Hall was a prominent Leesburg
attorney and state legislator, who
was the youngest delegate in the Vir-
ginia House when he was first elect-
ed in 1918 at the age of 24. In 1935,
he became Virginia’s first full-time
Conservation Commission chairman.

After attending Washington and
Lee from 1910 to 1914, he passed the
Virginia Bar with the highest grade.
When he received his Phi Beta Kap-
pa key, he remarked, “Pretty good
for a one-room school, don’t you
think?”

When he was awarded an hon-
orary doctorate by Washington and
Lee in 1967, he said it was “the
happiest moment of my life.”” He was
extremely active in promoting devel-
opment of the University’s new law
school and was especially interested
in its library facilities.

May 1974

 

 

 

Visitors look over
school interior, in-
cluding its old
Acme Giant stove.

 

 

Wilbur C. Hall and his beloved “little red schoolhouse.”

 

 

= = a = eet
President Robert E. R. Huntley delivered the principal address at the ceremony at
which a memorial plaque to Wilbur Hall was unveiled.

 

First Distinguished Alumnus Awards
presented to Rex, DeVan, and Brock

The Alumni Association’s first annual Distinguished
Alumnus Awards went to the late C. Walton Rex, ’25, of
Orlando, Fla.; Rugeley P. DeVan, Jr., ’34, of Charleston,
W. Va.; and U. S. Sen. William E. Brock, III, °53, of
‘Tennessee.

The awards were announced at the annual meet-
ing of the Alumni Association on May 11. Outgoing
Alumni President William H. Hillier presented the
awards, and University President Huntley read the
citations. |

Sen. Brock could not be present for the meeting; his
award will be presented to him at a later ceremony.

The posthumous award to Rex was received by his
widow, Mrs. Lottie Autrey Rex. DeVan received his
award in person.

‘The award, the highest that can be conferred by the
Alumni Association, honors the recipients for outstand-
ing character and distinguished service to society and to
Washington and Lee. The choices were made by a com-
mittee of the Alumni Board of Directors from nomina-
tions submitted by the recipients’ fellow alumni.

Rex was president of Rex-McGill Investment Co. in
Orlando until his death in December and was cited
for his “personal courage . . . professional excellence,
unselfish public service, and active interest in his alma
mater.”

DeVan is president of DeVan-Gallagher, Inc., insur-
ance brokers in Charleston. The citation noted “he al-
ways finds the time to lead a worthwhile community
endeavor, or serve on a committee for his alma mater,
or contribute his talents and his substance in an effective
and productive fashion.”

Brock served four terms in the U. S. House of Rep-
resentatives before being elected to the Senate from
Tennessee in 1970. He was cited for “excellence in pub-
lic service, his high ideals, unquestioned integrity and
genuine concern for those he serves. . . .”

The texts of the citations follow:

C. WALTON REX
Courageous Leader to His Profession and State
The life of C. Walton Rex, Class of ’25BS, was a happy
combination of professional excellence, unselfish public serv-
ice and active interest in his alma mater, in the finest tradi-

4

tions of Washington and Lee. In his chosen field of real estate
investment and appraisal, he was an organization member
No. 42 of the American Institute of Real Estate Appraisers
and a president of Florida Chapter No. 2 of that organization.
His special knowledge and skill in the area of citrus grove
appraisal led to positions on the Governor's citrus advisory
committee, the Florida Farm Bureau and the Florida Citrus
Commission. He was author of articles on citrus grove ap-
praisal in various professional publications.

His was a lifetime of service to his home city of Orlando
and his home state of Florida. He served as director and
officer of the Orlando Chamber of Commerce, the state
chamber and the Central Florida Development Committee,
he was a member and chairman of the Orlando Planning and
Zoning Commission, president of the Kiwanis Club and
president of the Orlando-Winter Park Board of Realtors. He
was on the president’s advisory committee of Rollins College.
He was an active member and elder of the First Presbyterian
Church of Orlando. Truly it can be said he was one of the
most distinguished citizens of that city. He was a strong and
consistent supporter of his alma mater.

For his lifetime of professional excellence, unselfish public
service and for the personal courage inherent in his many
achievements, Washington and Lee is proud to grant to C.
Walton Rex, posthumously, the award of Distinguished
Alumnus.

RUGELEY PIERSON DEVAN, JR.

Scholar, Churchman, Good Citizen and Loyal Alumnus

Honor graduate of the University where he was recogniz-
ed for his academic attainments by both Phi Beta Kappa and
Beta Gamma Sigma; successful businessman and dedicated
civic leader in his native Charleston, West Virginia, this
1934 alumnus typifies the active achiever who always finds
the time to lead a worthwhile community endeavor, or serve
on a committee for alma mater, or contribute of his talents
and of his substance in an effective and productive fashion.

A three year varsity letterman in wrestling, he served as a
lieutenant-commander in the Navy during World War II. He
has served as president of the Chamber of Commerce, of the
Rotary Club, of the United Fund, as an elder in the First
Presbyterian Church and for ten years as chairman of the
Greater Kanawha Valley Community Foundation, all in
Charleston.

He has been a Class Agent and served a term as Alumni

WeL

Above: Mrs. C. Walton Rex
and son Charles (left) who
received postumous Distin-
guished Alumnus Award for
C. Walton Rex with an-
other winner, Rugeley P. De-
Van, Jr. At Right: Sen.
William E. Brock, III, who
could not be present for
the ceremonies.

May 1974

 

 

Representative on the Athletic Committee; he headed a capi-
tal funds drive for Washington and Lee in the 50’s and his
son, Rugeley P. DeVan, III, is a graduate of the University.
There is also an R. P. DeVan, IV, on the scene who should
be a candidate for membership in the class of about 1993.

In recognition of his many and varied contributions and
in gratitude and admiration, the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity alumni bestow their Distinguished Alumnus Award
on this outstanding graduate.

WILLIAM EMERSON BROCK, III
United States Senator from ‘Tennessee

In the short time that has passed since Bill Brock received
his Bachelor of Science degree from Washington and Lee, he
has accomplished more than most men do in a lifetime. In
1964, he was selected as the Outstanding Young Man in
Tennessee by the Jaycees, and the Outstanding Young Re-
publican of the Year by the National Young Republicans.

This resounding vote of confidence was to be repeated
time and again as he was elected to four successive terms in
the House of Representatives and, at the age of 39, to the
United States Senate. For both the House and Senate seats,
he was the first Republican winner in more than four de-
cades.

A keystone of his strength and support has been his in-
terest in our young people. In the Spring of 1969, he or-
ganized a group of 22 Congressmen who quietly visited
troubled campuses across the country to listen to the stu-
dents. This effort produced the highly acclaimed Brock Report
to the President outlining student attitudes and hopes and
making recommendations during a very critical national per-
iod.

As a Senator, he has been vitally interested in making the
government more responsive to the individual. He is a strong
backer of Congressional reform, revenue sharing and _ reor-
ganization of the executive branch of the Government. He is
a member of the Committee on Government Operations, the
Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committees and the Na-
tional Commission on Consumer Finance. He is currently serv-
ing as chairman of the National Republican Senatorial Cam-
paign Committee.

Bill Brock’s personal commitment to excellence in public
service, his high ideals, unquestioned integrity and genuine
concern for those he serves makes this University extremely
proud of this Distinguished Alumnus.

 

- _
oe
Ts

re
Tey

he

i

me ala

 

~
ae

-

|

-
a 4
4

~~ =

g

g

Gey

aa

ee
ee

ee

r

 

 

 

tie |
es

oon
- ha"
Oe

’ ote
bas

 

Tucker is new president
of Alumni Association

Everett Tucker, Jr., °34, of Little
Rock, Ark., is the new president of the
Alumni Board of Directors. He took
over his duties from outgoing president
William H. Hillier,
the Alumni Association’s annual spring
meeting on May 11 in Lee Chapel. The
association meeting coincided with Spring
Reunions.

38, of Chicago at

Tucker is president of the Industrial
Development Co. in Little Rock. He
has served as treasurer of the Board and
has been a member for three years.

The Board also elected other officers,
and the Association named three new
Board members to serve four-year terms
and a member of the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics to
serve a two-year term.

The new Board members are:

Marion G. Heatwole, ’41A, ’46L, of
Pittsburgh, general counsel of U. S. Steel
Corp.

Samuel B. Hollis, ’51, of Memphis,
Tenn., president of Federal Compress

and Warehouse Co., a_ subsidiary of
Southwide, Inc.

of Ra-
C., president of Carolina Com-

Courtney R. Mauzy, Jr.,
leigh, N.
ponents Corp.

The new member of the Athletics
56, of
Martinsburg, W. Va., a representative of

Committee is Charles R. Beall,

the Lincoln National Life Insurance Co.

Other new officers of the Board are
Richard D. Haynes, ’58, of Dallas, vice
59, of
Winston-Salem, treasurer. Bill Washburn,

president, and C. Royce Hough,

40, was re-elected executive secretary.

Retiring members of the Board were
Hillier, IT. Hal Clarke, ’38, of Atlanta,
and J. Peter G. Muhlenberg, ’50, of
Wyomissing, Pa.

In taking over the presidency, ‘Tucker
praised Hillier’s leadership of the Alum-
ni Association during the past year, say-
ing that he could think of no higher tri-
bute than that Hillier “is in all respects
the perfect Washington and Lee gentle-

9?

man.

 

rh

he at Ue
$e LE OL?

t ei"
OOK

ie,

Everett Tucker, Jr.

Rt Ae em ns a

gale,

 

 

Charles R. Beall
8

Samuel B. Hollis

Marion G. Heatwole

Courtney R. Mauzy, Jr.

WeL

»y

: j ws ‘ z
tne Pete”: tig 4 7%
j

 

een

‘WAL S500’
pedals out

aid funds

At halftime of the W&L-Towson
State lacrosse game, the Student
Planning and Development Com-
mittee staged the “W&L 500”—

a 500-foot race featuring full-sized
students aboard kiddie-sized
tricycles. Seventeen student or-
ganizations paid a $20 entry fee
to compete for a prize of two kegs
of beer. President Huntley rode
the pace tricycle to start the race.

Junior Jim Baird, riding for
Sigma Chi, pedaled to the front
about halfway down the track and
won going away. A burly student in
drag—proclaimed “Miss W&L” in
competition with two stray dogs—
gave Baird a smooch and a garland
of beer cans as a token of his
victory.

Following the award to the win-
ner, the chairman of the student
Planning and Development Com-
mittee, senior Paul Perkins, pre-
sented a check for the proceeds of
the race to University ‘Trustee Gor-
don Leggett to be applied to the
University’s scholarship funds. The
Student Planning and Development
Committee was organized three years
ago to involve students in W&L’'s
Development Program.

Tricycles for the race were
donated by Best Products, the com-
pany of which Trustee Sydney Lewis
is president. After the race the
tricycles were given to the Rock-
bridge Area Social Service Depart-
ment for distribution to the children
of needy families.

 

 

 

Top to Bottom:

Huntley the pacesetter.
The winner going away.
The Queen and garland.
The big prize payoff.

May 1974 9

 

 

Bn ee ee
gee we b a
ee eB BE ws.
q
|

 

 

 

ENR eoeoeN
sii

r aE op Pa
nee Hoyt

ae aoe ek et ee Eee UEN, ,
i % * f 4%

“gee
4 ®
} sf ry bo ome, | ° ‘
he x6 ; $ % es ‘
: i * ; ‘ is A
» 7 % 4 ht . : ” Ba : .
i. <y % ad z : «Mes ce «
RE es i ae 6 si
. re a on ”
ig Boe tits, : agit ie aa ls Ni i i tage gn
sperma é ty ld é * =
?

= ea SN Nc me rome Pimms ee . :
% me ie ll ig
G6 LOCO at aoe OT RON, Oe VOT ON

nes en
wert

 

 

 

get nace Oe ms Ae 4
ee a a
4

 

xl niles say oe P

 

 

We&eL students Bill Kalal, Mike Burns, Mike Brittin, and Ferris Mack jog along the banks of the Charles River in marathon warmup.

enjoy pain no more than the next person, though we do
learn to handle our own special type of pain. “Cap’n K”’
suggested with characteristic simplicity during an inter-
view with the Harvard Crimson that “the pain and dis-
tance impose a meaning on the run.” One thing is cer-
tain: in the last few miles of a marathon “the runner
meets himself face to face.” It is this challenge which
makes the runner run—which prods the distance man
through endless hours, days, and months of training.

The Boston Marathon was a thrill, a progression of
sights, sounds, and feelings from the rural simplicity of
Hopkinton’s Town Green to the urban complexity of
downtown Boston. Over a half a million fans turned
out, lining the entire course on both sides of the road.

May 1974

They shouted encouragement, offered refreshments, and
occasionally doused the runners with a cooling spray
of water. Radios blared, dogs barked, children bid for a
slap on the hand. The girls at Wellesley were beauti-
ful. The spectators pleading and hurting with you at
Heartbreak Hill were an inspiration. The fans were
an integral part of the experience that was the 78th
Boston Marathon.

Burnsie finished in 2:41 and placed 177th. Less than
a minute behind was Tem. Bill reached the Prudential
Center in 2:53. Ferris stopped at 25 miles, the victim
of severe leg cramps. Myself, I finished in 3:20—“back
in the pack,’’ happy to have participated and delight-
fully exhausted.

11

 

aaa ee

 

Chapter
News

TIDEWATER. Umbrellas and raincoats
were the order of the day as Norfolk
area alumni gathered on March 16 for
an oyster roast. Despite almost torren-
tial rains, the occasion at Bayville Farm
was a gala event, and everyone had a
delightful time. Guests from the Uni-
versity were Law Dean and Mrs. Roy
Steinheimer, Dr. and Mrs. Jay Cook,
and Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Bill
Washburn. Chapter president, Peter A.
Agelasto, III, ’62, along with the secre-
tary, Richard C. Burroughs, ’68, made
the arrangements. The oysters and re-
freshments were plentiful and delicious.
Entertainment was provided by two
bluegrass guitarists.

JACKSONVILLE. Alumni ‘together with
parents of current students from the
Jacksonville area joined for a _ recep-
tion and dinner at the Florida Yacht
Club on March 22. The special guest and
speaker was history Prof. William A.
Jenks, a native of Jacksonville, who was
accompanied by his wife. Dr. Jenks re-
ported on activities at the University
— a report that was well received.
E. Ellis Zahra, Jr., 68, who was elected
chapter president at a recent business
meeting, presided and made the introduc-
tions. Other officers named were Willis
M. Ball, III, ’69, vice president, and
Harry M. Wilson, III, ’69, secretary.
President Zahra, before adjourning the
meeting, outlined future plans for the
chapter, especially activities involving stu-
dents from the Jacksonville area applying
for admission to Washington and Lee.

PALM BEACH-FORT LAUDERDALE.
An enthusiastic group of alumni joined
for cocktails and dinner on March 25 at
Stouffers Restaurant in the Holiday Inn
in West Palm Beach. The guest of

12

 

A b.

A

Dr. William A. Jenks, ’39, speaks at Jacksonville; at the headtable are Willis M. Ball,

  

 
   

III, 69; Mrs. E. Ellis Zahra, Jr.; President E. Ellis Zahra, Jr., ’68, and Mrs. Jenks.

hy 4

 

Enjoying the Jacksonville meeting are George Bateh, ’70; Bob Coperthwaite, ’70;

   

\

Susan Longo; Judge Lamar Winegeart, °52; Julie Essa; William H. Jeter, Jr., ’71,

and Gerald Weedon, ’70.

honor was Alummi Secretary Bill Wash-
burn. Chapter president Hugh Glick-
stein, *53A, ’55L, presided and _ intro-
duced Washburn, who gave a brief re-
port on the University and showed color
slides of University activities. A question
and answer period followed the slide
presentation. Bev H. Smith, °32, was
host for the cocktail party. During the
program, special recognition was extend-
ed to Horner C. Fisher, 17, and Judge
Russell O. Morrow, ’32.

NEW ORLEANS. Director of Develop-
ment Farris Hotchkiss and Alumni Sec-
retary Bill Washburn were guests of
honor on April 18 at a meeting of New
Orleans alumni at the Southern Yacht
Club. Chapter president Gus A. Fritchie,
Jr., 50, presided, and the arrangements
were made by Mr. and Mrs. John H.
McMillan, ’42. Hotchkiss, the principal
speaker, surveyed life at the University
during the past 10 years, discussing those
facets that had changed and those that

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

remained the same. His review was well
received. Special recognition was paid to
those at the head table, including Judge
and Mrs. John Minor Wisdom and Mr.
and Mrs. Joseph T. Lykes, Jr. Both
Wisdom and Lykes are Trustees of the
University.

GULF SIREAM. Alumni Secretary
Bill Washburn was the special guest at a
stag luncheon for alumni of the Miami
area on March 26 at the University
Club. Washburn reported on activities
at the University, answered questions,
and showed color slides of University
scenes. Mercer Clarke, 66, made. arrange-
ments for the luncheon, and Larry Craig,
66, presided during the program.

LITTLE ROCK. Alumni and _ their
guests joined for a very festive occasion
on April 20 at the Little Rock Country
Club for a reception and dinner in
honor of President and Mrs. Robert E.
R. Huntley. Presiding was Everett ‘Tuck-
er, Jr., "34, who was recently elected presi-
dent of the Alumni Board of Directors.
President Huntley reported on the cur-
rent status and outlook of the Univer-
sity. He emphasized the strong need for
continued financial support and compli-
mented the chapter for its past genero-
sity. His talk was enthusiastically re-
ceived. During a short business session a
nominating report was presented by Pey-
ton Rice, 40. The following officers were
elected: William C. Norman, Jr., °56,
president; Howard T. Shepherd, ’40, vice
president, and Everett Tucker, III, ’72,
treasurer. Earlier in Little Rock on
March 4, a small group of alumni met
with James W. Whitehead, treasurer of
the University. Whitehead was in the
city to help make arrangements for an
exhibit of the University’s Reeves Col-

May 1974

 

Lh

 

a

Farris Hotchkiss speaks in New Orleans; at headtable are Trustee John Minor Wisdon,
25; Mrs. Gus Fritchie; Judge Gus Fritchie, ’50; Mrs. Wisdom; Trustee Joseph T.
Lykes, Jr., ’41, and Mrs. Lykes.

 

 
 

At Gulf Stream meeting are Ferdinand L. Phillips, Jr., 51; Charles C. Curl, Jr., ’40;
M. I. Dunn, Jr., ’23, and W. W. Conner, ’26.

 

4

In Little Rock President Huntley talks with S. Ray West, Jr., ’51, and
Adrian Williamson, Jr., ’50.

13

 

Chapter News

 

 

Also at Little Rock are William C. Corman, Jr., ’56, chapter James H. Penick, ’19, and Mrs. Penick, along with Gus

president; Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, and V. J. Barnett, ’30.

lection of Chinese Export Porcelain at
the Arkansas Arts Center, scheduled for
Sept. 28-Nov. 3, 1974.

NEW YORK. Alumni of the New York
area were host to a number of guests
from the University at a meeting on
May 3 at the Essex House on Central
Park South. Present at the head table
were President and Mrs. Robert E. R.
Huntley, Trustee and Mrs. Ross Ma-
lone, and ‘Trustee and Mrs. Marshall
Nuckols. Also representing the University
were Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Bill
Washburn and Director of Development
and Mrs. Farris P. Hotchkiss. Chapter
President James O. Mathews, ’70, pre-
sided and made the introductions. Presi-
dent Huntley told of developments at the
University. A social hour preceded a
very elegant banquet. In closing, Presi-
dent Mathews reported on the future
plans and activities of the chapter and
encouraged alumni to participate fully.

14

 

 

Jalil

President Huntley is speaker in New York; at headtable are Mrs. Huntley; Chapter
President James O. Mathews, Jr., ’70, and his date, Miss Genia Hix.

 

Ottenheimer, 17, are participants in the Little Rock meeting.

WeL

 

 

Alumni
Notes

 

Above: Members of the Class of 1924 re-
turning for their 50th Class Reunion this
spring are (seated) John G. Guerrant,
Turner Rice, Henry W. Jones, Matthew
P. Matheney, Joseph S. McMath, and
Francis W. Plowman, and (standing)
Howard D. Leake, Stuart A. MacCorkle,
A. Emerson Johnson, Charles A. Tut-
wiler, Charles A. Cohen, Mackall R.
Bruin, Jr., Thomas P. Duncan, Jr., and
Reed E. Graves.

At right: A unique Queen Anne chair,
about 250 years old, was given to the
University recently by Everett A. Mar-
tin, 37, and Mrs. Martin. At a party at
the Alumni House marking the dona-
tion is Mrs. Martin, seated in the chair
and in the background (left to right) are
President Huntley, Everett Martin, Jr.,
a W&L senior, and Martin. After the
party, the Martins were hosts at a din-
ner at the Lexington Country Club. The
chair is now in the President’s House.

May 1974

 

 

 

 

Alumni Chair Sales

Raise Additional
Scholarship Funds

Sales of the Washington and
Lee Chair continue to produce sub-
stantial sums for the John Graham
Scholarship Fund, which helps wor-
thy young men attend the Univer-
sity. The sales are a project of the
Alumni Association.

This spring the Alumni Board
of Directors turned over a check
for $2,200 to the University for
addition to the fund, which honors
John Graham of the Class of

    

y

\

1914. This most recent gift brought

the scholarship total to about
$19,200. Last year, the Alumni As-
sociation’s contribution to the
fund, also representing profit from
chair sales, was $3,000.

So when you buy a W&L chair,
you not only acquire a fine piece of
furniture, but you also help the
University’s ever-needful student
financial aid program.

 

15

 

Class
Notes

1913

GORDON V. YONCE of Greenville, S. C., be-
came a salesman for the Woodlawn Ceme-
tery in 1939 and has served with the ceme-
tery for 27 years. He and Mrs. Yonce have
four married children all of whom live in

Virginia.
1922

During a recent visit to New Orleans, R.
BLEAKLEY JAMES was presented a_ plaque
by the Board of Commisisoners of the Port
of New Orleans. He is the grandson of
Robert Bleakley, the first president of the
board. The presentation was made by Ed-
ward S. Reed, executive port director.

1924

FRANK P. Morris has been in the construc-
tion business in Greenville, S. C., for many
years. He is chairman of the Morris Con-
struction Co. and a past president of the
Carolinas Branch of the Associated General
Contractors of America. For seven years
he was on the faculty of the College of Archi-
tecture at Clemson University.

1927

HAROLD OGDEN SMITH, JR., retired in 1969
after 22 years as chief executive officer,
United States Wholesale Grocer’s Associa-
tion, Inc. At present he is executive director,
Food Merchandisers of America, Inc., presi-
dent and chief executive, Mite-T-Mart Food
Stores Corp., and president of Master Gour-

met Institute.
1929

RoBErRT C. Burris retired Oct. 1, 1973, after
27 years with the accounting firm of Tur-
ner, Burris and Wolf in Mt. Vernon, Ohio.
He is active in the Chamber of Commerce,
the American Legion and the Order of

Synposiarchs.
1930

EARL T. JONes, who retired in 1971, now
admittedly plays a lot of golf and is in-
terested in all sports. Jones formerly owned
the Jesse Jones Sausage Co. in Raleigh,
N. C., which merged some years ago with

General Mills.
1932

In May, JOHN W. ZIMMERMAN retired from
Champion Paper Co. after 45 years of
continuous service.

1933

JOHN N. HOFFMAN, after having retired in

16

R. Bleakley James
(center) and Mrs. James
receive plaque in New
Orleans ceremony. (See
1922.)

1970 from J. C. Penney Co., is now with
the office of the Canadian Consulate Gen-
eral in New York.

W. W. (Monk) MAtTTox is with Carolina
Tractor and Engineering Co. in Salisbury,
N. C. He has 37 years of service with the

firm.
1934

Ropert L. BUFFINGTON has retired after 37
years as a Civilian employee with the U. S.
Army Corps of Engineers. His last position
was assistant chief engineer of the South-
western Division in Dallas, Tex.

1937

JAMEs R. RuTH has opened a new Mexican
food restaurant, El Chico, on Interstate 45
between Dallas and Houston.

1938

JAY H. ReEtp was formerly a reporter for
the Philadelphia Evening Bulletin, the New
York Herald Tribune and the Wall Street
Journal in their Washington, D. C. bureaus.
Since 1948, he has been with the _ Inter-
national Monetary Fund and is currently
the director, Office of Information. He is
married to the former Virginia Helen Gal-
liher and they have four sons.

JoHN H. SHOAF has completed a four-year
tour of duty in Latin America as a con-
sultant on export development to the gov-
ernments of Guatemala, Honduras, and
Ecuador. He is now back with the U. S.
Department of Commerce as an export de-
velopment officer with the Bureau of Inter-
national Commerce.

1939

Dr. JOHN T. Fey, president of National
Life Insurance Co. of Vermont, took part
in a businessman-residency program at Po-
mona College, the Institute of Life Insur-
ance. While the program is life insurance-
oriented, the aims are for an exchange of
minds in the whole range of ideas and re-
lationships between higher education and

business.
1940

FRANKLIN A, NICHOLS, a retired Major Gen-
eral of the U. S. Air Force, is now a con-
sultant to Horizon Corp., a land developer
throughout the Southwest. He lives in El
Paso, Tex.

 

HARRY H. BENNER is with ITT Community
Development Corp. in Orlando, Fla. He is
a retired Lieutenant Colonel of the U. S.

Air Force.
1942

Dr. Wuitr N. SCHULTZ, vice-president/mar-
keting, has been promoted and named vice
president and director of Executive Search
and De-Hiring Services for Executive Ca-
reers, Inc., with headquarters in Chicago.
Executive Careers, Inc., is a broad-based
consulting firm that serves corporations and
individual executives.

HOWARD GREENBLATT, vice president of Con-
tinental Casualty Co. and Continental As-
surance Co., is quite active on the Greater
Chicago Committee of the Civic Federation,
which concerns itself with the tax structure
of the Greater Chicago area and the expend-
iture of public revenues.

1944

CoL. CHARLES E. SAVEDGE, dean of students
at Augusta Military Academy in Fort De-
fiance, Va., has been re-elected president of
the Columbia Scholastic Press Association,
one of the nation’s largest journalism ad-
visor associations. He is editor of the as-
sociation’s CSP-Double A Aids, a columnist
for Quill and Scroll magazine, co-author
and designer of Yearbook Fundamentals-
1973 and was appointed as editor of the
School Press Review which is the official
publication of the association. Col. Savedge
serves on the publication board of the
Blue Ridge Community College and during
the summers has been in charge of the lar-
gest yearbook workshop in the country
which is held at Ball State University. Col.
Savedge serves on the board of judges «for
the Virginia High School League and as
a member of the Journalism Department of
VHSL. Since 1947 Col. Savedge has been
teaching chemistry and U. S. and Virginia
History at Augusta Military Academy.

1945

CorRTLANDT S. DIETLER is president and direc-
tor of Western Crude Oil, Inc., of Denver,
Colo. A native of Denver, Dietler was em-
ployed during the summers by the British
American Oil Producing Co. before his
graduation from Washington and Lee. After
graduation, he was employed by a num-
ber of companies including the Trans-
Arabian Pipe Line Co. in Beirut, the To-
ronto Pipe Line Co. of Casper, Wyoming,

WeL

 

the Williams-Copeland Drilling Co. of Tul-
sa, and the Argo Oil Corp. of Denver. In
a relatively few years Dietler had formed a
number of corporations of which he became
president and director, including Platte
Transport Corp., Western Crude Marketers,
Inc., Basin ‘Truck Co., Pinon Gas Corp., and
Dakamont Exploration Corp. In 1960 Diet-
ler merged all of the above operations into
a firm, Permian Corp. In 1962, he resigned
from Permian Corp. to conduct personal
investments. Since then Dietler has pur-
chased or formed several other companies
which are now subsidiaries or divisions of
Western Crude Oil, Inc. His latest opera-
tions, obtained in 1972, are the Cameron
Crude Oil Corp., Panotex Pipe Line Co.,
and Banner, Inc. Dietler is a director of
Associated Royalty Company of Denver,
the Butte Pipe Line Co. of Houston, the
Evans Pipeline Equipment Co. of ‘Tulsa,
the Reserve Oil and Gas Co. of Los An-
geles, the Texoma Pipe Line Co. of Tulsa
—to mention a few. He is a member of the
American Petroleum Institute, the Governor
of Colorado’s Energy Task Force, the Na-
tional Petroleum Council, the National
Petroleum Refiners Association, and the
Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association.

1947

BERNARD Judy, editor of the Toledo, Ohio,
Blade, has been elected president of the
Toledo Press Club board of directors for
1974.

Dr. JAMES H. SAMMONS was first elected to the
board of trustees of the American Medical
Association in June, 1970. He was elected
vice chairman in June 1972, re-elected to the
board in June, 1973, and elected chairman of
the Board in October, 1973. Recently he was
chosen executive vice president-designate of
the American Medical Association, effective
March, 1975. Sammons is currently manag-
ing partner of a nine-member multi-special-
ty fee for service group practice in Bay-
town, Texas. He was a member of the board
of directors of the American Medical Poli-
tical Action Committee for six years and
is a founder of the Texas Political Action
Committee. He served six years as president
of the Houston Academy of Medicine. He
holds membership in numerous professional
organizations and is currently a clinical as-
sistant professor in the Department of Com-
munity Medicine at Baylor College of Medi-
cine. He and his wife have two children.

May 1974

 

1948

E. ROGERS PLEASANT, a legal counsel with
DuPont Co. in Wilmington, has recently
been appointed head of the firm’s office
in Washington, D. C,

1949

RICHARD S. CooLey is head of the mathe-
matics department at Far Hills, N. J., Coun-
try Day School. He and his wife have three
children.

F. DONALD HARRISON has been appointed
manager of the Dallas general office of Fred
S. James & Co. of Texas, a nationwide risk
management and insurance brokerage com-
pany. Harrison had been an active partner
in the Weatherford-Smith-Thomas Co. in
Dallas which merged with Fred S. James &
Co. in 1971. Before joining Weatherford-
Smith-Thomas in 1965, Harrison had been
casualty manager of the Houston and Little
Rock offices of Fireman’s Fund Insurance
Co. since 1960. He began his insurance ca-
reer of 24 years in the casualty depart-
ment of the U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co.’s
Dallas office in 1950. Harrison had served
as vice president of the Dallas Association
of Insurance Agency Managers and chair-
man of the Educational and Membership
committees of the Dallas Association of In-
surance Agents.

RALPH J. DaAvis has been elected a_ vice
president of NB Corp., the parent company
of the National Bank and Trust Co. of
Charlottesville, Va. He is also a vice presi-
dent of National Bank with the respon-
sibility for the administration of its 22
branch office system. Davis joined National
Bank in 1970 and was elected a vice presi-
dent a year later. Before that, he was a
member of the State ABC Board and a
former vice president and director of Page
Valley National Bank in Luray, Va. Davis is
married to the former Jane Harp and they
have four children.

C. Tair TRussELt has recently become vice
president for administration of the Ameri-
can Forest Institute in Washington, D. C.
This is the communications arm of the for-
est products industry and conducts an exten-
sive public relations and advertising program
on a national scope. Trussell was formerly
in Lakeland, Fla., in the real estate invest-
ment business and he also did free-lance
writing and public relations work.

MICHAEL B. BoypDA is associated with Fire-

C. S. Dietler, °45

 

R. J. Davis, 49

man’s Fund American Insurance Co.

as a
claims supervisor. He and his wife Evelyn

have three children and live in Overland
Park, Kan.

HeNRY M. BARKER has returned to East
Tennessee after six years on active duty
with the U. S. Air Force in Germany. He
was project officer and pilot for the Air
National Guard’s air refueling operations
in Europe. He retired as a_ Lieutenant

Colonel.
195]

RICHARD C, WHITSON, JR., is district sales
representative for the U. S. Chamber of
Commerce and works out of Roanoke, Va.
He and his wife have three sons.

Guy B. HAMMOND has been granted a study
leave from Virginia Polytechnic Institute
and State University for the 1974 spring
quarter for summer research in humani-
ties. He and his family will go to the
University of Louvain in Belgium.

RICHARD B. TAYLor, after seven years with
a member firm of the New York Stock Ex-
change, has resigned to form a burglar alarm
sales and installation business in Las Vegas,

Nev.
1952

T. W. (Cox) JoyNes won his seventh golf
tournament last September at the Cavalier
in Virginia Beach. He also won his fifth
club title.

After retiring from the U. S. Marine Corps
in June, 1972, Lewis ZEIGLER, is now em-
ployed as a pilot by Global Associates on
the Kwajalien Missile Range in the Mar-

shall Islands.
1953

JoHN W. Dopp, JR., is marketing manager
for Campbell Soup Co. He is on the school
board of Haddonfield, N. J. and a_ board
member of the Community Concert As-
sociation.

WILLIAM A. HOCKETT, JR., has been named
vice president for Administration and_ Fi-
nance of Smith Kline Instruments, Inc., of
Palo Alto, Calif. He began his career with
Smith Kline Corp. in 1958. He and his wife
have three children.

JoHN D. MAGuire, president of State Uni-
versity of New York College at Old West-
bury, has been elected president of the
Society for Religion in Higher Education.

17

 

The society’s presidency is an honorary post
which Dr. Maguire will hold while continu-
ing as president of Old Westbury. The
society, a nondenominational body, supports
original inquiry ranging over the entire
spectrum of higher education. Dr. Maguire
has been a member of the society’s board
for several years. He is a former Fulbright
Scholar and Kent Fellow and one of only
six summa cum laude graduates of the
Yale University Divinity School in this cen-
tury.

Scotr MAy became rector of Saint Jones
Church in Marietta, Ga., in November, 1973.
He had earlier been on the staff of Trinity
Church in Columbia and was a chaplain
at the Massachusetts General Hospital in

Boston.
1954

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Irvin N. CAPLAN, a
son, Richard Benjamin, on April 2, 1973.
The young man joins two older brothers.
Caplan is a practicing attorney in Essex,
Md.

RoBert E. BRApForD, who has had 12 years
Capitol Hill experience as administrative
assistant to U. S. Rep. Richard Poff of Vir-
ginia (now a Virginia Supreme Court Jus-
tice) and Sen. Wiiliam Brock of Tennessee,
has recently been named associate director
of the Americans for the Presidency. This
organization is undertaking a nation-wide
advertising campaign in support of Presi-
dent Nixon. Bradford has also been execu-
tive director of the Republican Party of
Illinois and has had a career in broadcast-

ing.
1955

Davin M. BERLINGHOF has been appointed
manager of the Southeast Region for Car-
gill, Inc., the grain distributor. The major
portion of grain is sold to the large poultry
industry in the Southeast region.

Since 1970 THOMAS W. RobBINs, JrR., has
been with Merck Sharp & Dohne Research
Laboratories in Rahway, N. J. in Clinical
Research International. He is responsible
for clinical research in Scandinavia and
Northeastern Europe.

LAURENCE LEVITAN, an attorney in Chevy
Chase, Md., is also a member of the State
House of Delegates.

1956

BORN: CMbr. and Mrs. Epwarp D. Mc-
18

CARTHY, a daughter, Margaret Amelia, on
Aug. 4, 1973. McCarthy is director of Naval
Reserve Manpower, Eighth Naval District in
New Orleans.

R. C. GUNNAR MILLER, head of the real
estate division of the Jacksonville, Fla., de-
partment of Housing and Urban Develop-
ment, has been elected a trust officer of
First Guaranty Bank and ‘Trust Co. of
Jacksonville.

FREDERICK P. STAMP, JR., Of Wheeling, presi-
dent of the West Virginia Board of Re-
gents, was recently the principal speaker at
the West Virginia alumni meeting in Mar-
tinsburg. Stamp is a lawyer and former
Republican member of the West Virginia
House of Delegates. The Board of Regents
has charge of all public institutions of high-
er learning.

1957

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Morton P. ILER, a son,
Bruce Campbell, on March 18, 1974. Iler is
controller for Ashland Exploration Co. in
Houston, Tex., a worldwide oil and gas
exploration and production division of
Ashland Oil Co.

JouN E. McDONALD, Jr., formerly with the
Richmond law firm of Hunton, Williams,
Gay & Gibson, has opened an office for the
private practice of law in Richmond and
at Saluda, Va.

H. MERRILL PLAIsTED, III, vice president
of Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., of Richmond,
has been elected president of the Virginia
chapter of the Society of Industrial Realtors.

1958

JoHN C. Brinrorp, formerly of Dallas, has
recently been named senior vice president
and head of the trust division of First Na-
tional Bank of Albuquerque, N. M. He and
his wife, Julie, have two children.

CHARLES P. Corn, formerly with Houghton
Mifflin Co., is now senior editor at Athen-
eum Publishers Co. in New York City.

MAYNARD B. OGDEN, JR., received an M. S.
degree in geology from the University of
Michigan in 1960 and went to work in the
claims field in California. By attending
night school, he obtained a J. D. degree
from Lincoln University in June, 1971. He
and his wife have two sons and Ogden is
now practicing law in San Francisco.

 

RoBert A. RICHARDS is president of Frede-
rick Richards, Inc., of Charleston, S. C.,
and also Frederick Richards of Georgia, Inc.,
in Savannah, Ga. Both firms are customs
brokerage and foreign freight forwarding
companies. He and his wife have two chil-
dren.

L. DouGLas Roy is working for the Import
Division of Brown-Forman Distillers Corp.
out of Dallas, Tex. He and his wife have
two daughters.

JAMEs W. VAN CLEAVE is currently associ-
ate advertising manager, toilet goods divi-
sion, of Proctor & Gamble, with headquar-
ters in Cincinnati.

1959

REGINALD K. BRACK, JR., has been named
worldwide advertising sales director for
Time. Before his appointment, Brack was
responsible for the marketing and sales of
international editions of Time through 33
sales offices and the 185 countries in which
the magazine circulates. Since 1962, he has
held a variety of positions with Time in
Chicago, New York and St. Louis. He was
the travel advertising manager of the maga-
zine for three years and the New York Di-
visional sales manager for two years before
becoming international sales director. He
and his wife and three children live in
Greenwich, Conn.

WERNER JOHN DEIMAN, has been named as-
sociate professor of English at Bates Col-
lege, in Lewiston, Me. He _ holds his
M.A. degree and Ph.D. degree’ from
Yale University. Dr. Deiman has been the
recipient of a number of fellowships and
grants, including a Woodrow Wilson Na-
tional Fellowship. He has also studied at
the University of Munich on a West German
government grant. He is also chairman of
the Bates Concert-Lecture Committee and
has been active in committee work at the
college.

L980.

Dr. L. G. HALLORAN is an assistant professor
of surgery at the Medical College of Vir-
ginia, specializing in vascular and_ gastro-
intestinal surgery.

JouNn B. HOKE, JR., a native of Martinsburg,
W. Va., was chairman of the Shenandoah
Area Council’s Boy Scout Show. Active in
the business community of Berkeley County,
Hoke is president of Shenandoah Oil Co.,

WeL

vice president of the Potomac Construc-
tion Co., a partner of Asphalt Products Co.
and a director of the Old National Bank.
He is a member of both the American Soc-
iety of Civil Engineers and the National
Society of Professional Engineers. The Scout
Show, held May 18-19, was a_ spectacular
presentation of scouting activities.

ALLEN MEAD FERGUSON has been elected to
the board of directors of Craigie, Mason-
Heagan, Inc., an investment firm in Rich-
mond, Va. Ferguson is vice president of the
corporate syndicate and institutional sales
department.

JOHN R. PLEASANT, JR., is an assistant pro-
fessor of English at Southeastern Louisiana
University in Hammond, La. He is working
on his Ph.D. dissertation at L. S. U.

DANIEL B. LEONARD was recently elected
president of Heritage Research Corp., an
investment management company in Den-
ver.

RANDOLPH B. KILMON is vice president and
senior partner of Loomis, Sayles, and Co.,
a Boston based investment counsel firm. He
and his wife have one son.

1961

WILLIAM B. MCWILLIAMS, vice president of
the Bank of Virginia-Central in Richmond,
Va., has been named officer in charge of
the banking division. He formerly was re-
sponsible for the bank’s correspondent bank
and regional accounts department. McWil-
liams joined the bank in September, 1972,
having been formerly with the Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in Asheville, N. C. He
presently serves on the executive commit-
tee of the Young Banker’s Section of Vir-
ginia Bankers Association.

RON L. RANDEL is in the real estate and
outdoor advertising business in Albuquer-
que, N. M. He recently moved there from
Amarillo, where he had been in the out-
door advertising business for 10 years. Ran-
del is also on’ the board and a vice presi-
dent of Santa Fe Builder’s Supply Co. of
Albuquerque. He and his wife, Madge, have
three children.

WINTHROP WEED has been promoted to as-
sistant vice president for western opera-
tions for Snelling and Snelling, the world’s
largest private employment service, with
headquarters in Paoli, Pa. Weed, previous-
ly a director of franchise relations for the

May 1974

company in the western division and in
the Canadian provinces of Alberta, British
Columbia, and Saskatchewan, is now the
liaison between corporate headquarters and
the franchised offices in the western half of
the United States. Weed joined Snelling
and Snelling in November, 1967. Weed cur-
rently lives in Foster City, Calif.

1962

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN OLLIE EDMUNDS,
a son, John Ollie, III, on Oct. 25, 1973, in
Durham, N. C.

BORN: Maj. and Mrs. WESLEY R. OSTER-
GREN, a son, James Stanley, on Aug. 27,
1973. In November, the Ostergrens moved to
Worms, Germany, where he is chief of ad-
ministration in the motor vehicle manage-
ment division for the U. S. Theater Army
Command Headquarters.

BORN: MR .and Mrs. HAywarb F. Day, Jr.,
a daughter, Adrianna Louise, on Dec. 12,
1973. The girl joins two older brothers and
a sister. Day, formerly with the United
State ‘Trust Co. in New York City, is now
with the law firm of Blatz and Blatz in
Plainfield, N. J. He served on the city
planning board until recently when he was
appointed special title counsel for Plainfield.

Brothers AL and S. M. (Cy) PAINTER operate
the Painter Real Estate Co. in Churchville,
Va. ‘They have been in the real estate bro-
kerage business over nine years.

HARRY TETER, JR., iS currently the execu-
tive director of the Appalachian Regional
Commission, with headquarters in Washing-
ton, D. C.

1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ASHLEY T. WILT-
SHIRE, JR., a son, Matthew Ashley, on March
18, 1974. The family lives in Nashville,
‘Tenn.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DAvip R. MUNROE, a
son, David R., II, on Sept. 21, 1973. The
family lives in North Muskegon, Mich.

GEORGE AUSTEN, III, has been named vice
president of First National City Bank in
New York. His responsibilities include mar-
ket research, advertising and promotion
for corporate products involving cash man-
agement and securities. Before joining First
National City Bank, Austen was a_ vice
president and management supervisor at
Grey Advertising, Inc., in New York City.

ALLAN JOHNSTON was recently transferred
from R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. to their
foods division and appointed brand manager
for new products. He lives in Winston-
Salem, N. C.

THOMAS N. RAINs has recently been named
president of Rains Investment Co., Inc.,
specializing in real estate investments, man-
agement, and brokerage. He and his wife
Laura have two daughters, and the family
lives in Atlanta.

Louis A. Rosenstock, III, has served since
July, 1973, as judge of the General District
Courts for the City of Petersburg and for
Dinwiddie County. In January, 1974, the
Virginia Assembly elected him judge of the
General District Court, Eleventh Judicial
District, for a six-year term.

ROBERT W. BRIDEWELL is chairman of the
board of Bridewell Development Co., a Dal-
las based real estate development company
with primary activities in hotel develop-
ment. The firm is reported to be the lar-
gest developer and operator of Hilton Inns.
Bridewell is married to the former Sherry
Watson of Roanoke and the couple have

two children.
1964

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. Bruce T. CHOSNEY, a
son, Brett, on March 1, 1974. The young
man joins an older sister. Chosney will com-
plete his residence in internal medicine
at Los Angeles County-University of South-
ern California Medical Center in July, 1974,
and will begin a fellowship in Hematology
at the University of Michigan Medical Cen-
ter in Ann Arbor.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. BricE R. GAMBER a
third son, Jason Andrew, on March 24, 1973.
The brothers are age 7 and 3 and the family
lives in Fanwood, N. J.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES HICKEY, a son,
Timothy Daniel, on June 8, 1973. Hickey
is coaching at Collegiate, a prep school in
Richmond, Va. He was named “coach of
the year” for coaching the track team to an
undefeated season and the state champion-
ship of Virginia Private Prep Schools.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. MELL, a
daughter, Kristen Kendall, in July, 1973.
Mell, formerly with Blair Academy, is now
supervisor and coordinator of a family pro-
gram at Little Hill-Alina Lodge, an alco-
holic rehabilitation center in Blairstown,
N. J.

19

es oe :
eects Se

 

Oe ees aint arene Lae

ae

 

W. B. McWilliams, ’65L

Rock, Ark. He is associated with Terramar
Corp., a developer of condominiums, apart-
ments, and office buildings.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES BISTANY, a
daughter, Marisa Christina, on March 16,
1974. The young lady joins an older sister
and the family lives in Yonkers, N. Y. where
Bistany is an attorney.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL HUGH FRAZIER,
a son, Samuel Hugh, Jr., on Dec. 15, 1973.
After graduation from the University of
Alabama Law School in May, 1974, Sam will
practice law in Birmingham. In law school
he is a member of the Alabama Law Review
and a member of Bench and Bar, a law
honorary society.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. D. J. MATHEWSON, JR.,
a daughter, Carroll Ahrens, on June 8, 1973.
The young lady joins an older sister. Mat-
hewson is with Marlin Firearms Co. as as-
sistant manager working with a subsidiary
specializing in advertising and employee re-
lations program.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PHILLIP D. MOLLERE,
a daughter, Margaret Simone, Jan. 2, 1974.
Mollere is a visiting assistant professor of
chemistry at the University of Missouri in
Kansas City.

WILLIAM S. BAKER has been named _ inter-
national division support executive by the
North Carolina National Bank in Charlotte.
Baker will be responsible for loan syndica-
tions, credit administration, and sales sup-
port. He joined the bank as a credit analyst
in 1968 and served in the credit department
before being promoted to assistant vice presi-
dent in 1972. Baker became administrative
assistant to the NCNB president in Decem-
ber, 1973, and vice president in January,
1974. He and his wife, the former Betty
Lynn Tucker of Richmond, have two chil-
dren.

DANIEL W. Birb, JR., an attorney, has re-
cently been elected president of Mountain
Security Savings and Loan Association in
Wytheville, Va. Bird has also been selected
by Rotary International as one of five team
members from the United States to partici-
pate in a group study exchange program
for 1974 in Australia. Leaving in March, the
team traveled six weeks in Australia to pro-
mote goodwill and understanding between
the people and the countries. Bird and his
wife have three children.

EpwARD H. BRADBURY is vice president of
Smith, Barney & Company of New York

May 1974

City in the institutional sales department.
For a number of years he has played rugby
and is this year’s captain of the Westchester
Rugby Club. He and Sarah J. Foley were
married Sept. 29, 1973.

HARRY DENNERY, after several months in
Atlanta, is back in New Orleans as com-
mercial manager, Retail Donut Systems, for
the Charles Dennery Company. His wife,
Linda, is personnel manager for the Times
Picayune Publishing Corp.

PETER M. DE MARIO is very active in sail-
boat racing. He sails a Finn, a Laser, and a
Thistle. Currently he holds the office of dis-
trict governor for the State of Florida in
the Thistle class.

1967

The law firm of Frith & Gardner of Mar-
tinsville, Va., composed of Douglas Frith, ’58,
BENJAMIN GARDNER, 67, and Philip Gard-
ner, ’72, has established an award for the
best brief in the annual W&L Moot Court
competition.

1968

MARRIED: RiIcHARD T. CLAPP to Ellen
Thoms on Sept. 15, 1973. The couple
lives in New York City.

HAYwWarD F. Day, Jr. L.L.B. (See 1962)

THoMAsS E. Epwarbs is currently serving in
ACTION in Guatemala. After 4 years in the
Air Force, he received his B. A. in Anthro-
pology from the University of Colorado. He
was recently visited in Guatemala by Gor-
den Findley, 68, and Henry Hills, ’70.

Epwarp L, BisHop, III, was recently awarded
two distinguished flying crosses and other
air medals for achievements in combat as a
Navy fighter pilot. He has also written a
manual on aircraft tactics which is soon to
be published for all services. He expects to
end his service with the Navy in June and
will begin studies at Wharton Graduate
School in September.

Dr. ROBERT WEIN is currently in Newport
News, Va. with the National Health Service
of the U. S. Public Health Service. He ex-
pects to return in July, 1975 to the University
of Virginia Hospital to go into obstetric-
gynecology residency. He and his wife an-
nounce the birth of their daughter, Jennifer
Marie, on Feb. 28, 1974.

1969

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM L. Kirsy,
III, a son, William L., IV, on Jan. 16, 1974.
The family lives in Martinsville, Va.

RICHARD M. THOMAS is a lieutenant in the
U. S. Navy with the Judge Advocate Gen-
eral’s Corps, now stationed in San Diego,
Calif., after a year’s tour with the Marines
on Okinawa.

KiRK WoopWaARD is on a year’s leave of ab-
sence from a master’s in drama course at
Catholic University in Washington, D. C.
He is currently in New York where he is
working and taking theater courses at the
H. B. Studio.

JAMes S. WILSON is currently law clerk to
the Honorable Plummers Shearin in Rock-
ville, Md. He was married August, 1973, to
the former Margaret Sefeldt of Charlottes-

ville, Va.
1970

MARRIED: GERALD W. WEEDON to Kathryn
Anne Kothman on May 4, 1974, in Jackson-
ville, Fla. Among the groomsmen, were
Tommy Rueger, ‘69, Byron Seward, Dave
Bethea and John Franklin Hartin ’70, Pat
Tatum ’71 and Donald Cartwright ’72.
Weedon expects to be discharged from the
Navy in July, 1974, and will enter law school
in September.

DON CHILpREss is currently with Thommell
Crow Co., a real estate development com-
pany operating in the Philadelphia area.

197]

MARRIED: MICHAEL P. TRUTA to Barbara
Phillips in ‘Towson, Md. on June 30,
1973. Among the wedding party were class-
mates Henry Harkey, Donald Woodward,
Stacy Eastland, Mark Bromley and Charles
Gregery, °72. After service with the Army
at Fort Bragg, Truta is now in the man-
agement training program of White Motor
Co. in Cleveland, Ohio.

RussELL P. WYNING, JR., of Houston, Tex.,
received a master’s degree in architecture
from Rice University in May. Under a fel-
lowship, he expects to attend the graduate
school of business at Stanford University
for the 1974-75 session.

THOMAS F. BAKER, IV, is assistant counsel
for First Tennessee National Corp. in Mem-
phis, a bank holding company. His respon-
sibilities are primarily in the area of mer-

21

 

L. M. Croft, ’73

gers and acquisitions. He and his wife,

Elizabeth, have one daughter.

WILLIAM S. STRAIN has received his law de-
gree from Louisiana State University where
he made the Law Review his first year.
having passed the Louisiana Bar Exam in
February of 1974 he will practice law in
New Orleans.

ROBERT MONROE GILL is seeking a Ph.D. de-
gree in political science from Duke Univer-
sity and is currently doing research for
his dissertation. This summer he expects to
lead a group of undergraduates for summer
study in France under the Experiment in
International Living Program.

1972

MARRIED: Bruce W. Cusson to Catherine
D. Bishop on September 29, 1973, in Water-
ville, Me. Cusson is manager of the men’s
department of Filene’s in Worwick, R. I.
Mall Store.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. WEST, JR.,
a son, Nathaniel Flint, on Oct. 17, 1973. The
young man joins an older brother.

JAMEs W. JENNINGS, JR. L.L.B. (See 1965)

J. STEVEN DuGAN, after serving in the Army
at Fort Jackson, S. C., is now residing in
Varner Robins, Ga., and is research analyst
for Congressman Jack Brinkley. He was mar-
ried in September, 1970, to Julie Cole of
Newnan, Ga.

WILLIAM MCKENZIE Woopwarb, after spend-
ing two months during the summer of 1973
in Florance, Italy doing research for his
thesis, expects to get his master’s degree in
art history from Brown University next
year.

CHARLES L. WHITE is an administrative as-

sistant in the trust department of Soxiety
National Bank of Cleveland, Ohio.

JoHN B. Woopb.igF is a CPA with Price
Waterhouse Company in Jacksonville, Fla.

JAMEs Hacoop ELLISON, JR., on duty with the
U. S. Army with the Hawk Missile Battalion
in Key West, Fla. expects to be discharged
in September.

GiLBerT S. MEEM, formerly with Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in Raleigh, N. C., is

in New York as an account executive.

LAWRENCE E. Moruous is practicing law in

22

Bluefield, W. Va. He is married to the for-
mer Carolyn Laws.

MerRyYL Moore, following a tour of shore
duty at the Naval Law Center in Norfolk,
is currently on his second tour of sea duty
as anti-submarine warfare officer aboard
the USS Leahy where he is currently de-
ployed in the Mediterranean.

RoBerRT B. SCHATZ, a practicing attorney in
Philadelphia, recently co-starred in Case of
Libel, a play based on Lewis Nizer’s best
selling novel, My Life in Court. Schatz
portrays the once-famous syndicated news
columnist, Westbrook Peggler. The play
which was subsidized by the Theater Wing
of the Philadelphia Bar Association, open-
ed April 4, 1974 in Philadelphia at the
Plays and Players ‘Theater.

1973

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. BALDWIN, a
son, John C., Jr., on Jan. 3, 1974. Baldwin
is an attorney in Baltimore, Md.

Ropert T. BRUYERE, has been awarded a
$200 scholarship by the Sigma Phi Epsilon
Fraternity Educational Foundation. The
award was made in recognition of “. . . the
brother whose efforts have contributed most
to the advancement of the chapter, and
who has best demonstrated the noblest ideals
of Virginia Epsilon Chapter in the areas of
fellowship, leadership, and scholarship.” Bru-
yere is now attending the University of
Texas Law School.

WILLIAM H. MCILHANY, II, is managing in-
vestments for the McIlhany Equipment Com-
pany’s profit sharing fund in Roanoke. He
has had two books published, Not a Civil
War at All: Eighty Years of Conspiracy to
Destroy the United States, and the other
by Arlington House Publisher, Klandestone:
The Untold Story of Delmer Dennis in the
F. B. I2s War Against the K. K. K. in
Mississippi.

Tom McMILLAN lives on a houseboat in
Sausalito, Calif., and works in San Fran-
cisco, where he does writing and editing
for a small publishing house (Bellerophon).

BRIAN E. RICHARDSON is seeking a master’s
degree in journalism from the University
of Florida. He is assisted by a Graduate
Council Fellowship.

ROBERT SPENCER WILSON has accepted a posi-

tion as staff reporter and feature writer for
the Daily Press in Newport News, Va.

LAWRENCE M. Croft has been promoted to
trust planning officer of First National Bank
of South Carolina in Columbia. Croft works
in the area of business development. A for-
mer Army Lieutenant, Croft has been award-
ed the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
He is a member of the Columbia Estate
Planning Council. He and his wife, the for-
mer Susan Brush of Lexington, Va., have
one child.

PuHiLip H. MILNER, JR. has recently joined
J. P. Stevens & Company of New York
City in their executive training program.

THEODORE H. RITTER has been appointed to
the position of city prosecutor and assistant
city solicitor for Bridgeton, N. J. In addi-
tion, Ritter is a practicing attorney.

THOMAS G. FERGUSON, JR. is stationed with
the Staff Judge Advocate’s office at Fort
Sill, Okla.

 

In Memoriam

 

1905

Davin TAy Moore, who was active in the
ownership and management of Greenbrier
Military School in Lewisburg, W.Va., until
his retirement in July, 1970, died April 23,
1974. He began his business career in the
Rockingham National Bank of Harrison-
burg, Va., in 1902 and was for six years
with the First National Exchange Bank in
Roanoke before joining the Greenbrier
Military School with his two brothers in

July, 1912. Moore served the Old Stone
Presbyterian Church in Lewisburg as a

deacon, elder, and clerk of the session for
30 years. He held many church offices in-
cluding the following: moderator of Green-
brier Presbytery, moderator of the Synod
of West Virginia, and member of and
chairman of many committees of the Pres-
byterian Church, U.S. He served as a trus-
tee of the Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond and in 1959 was honored by
Davis and Elkins College with an_ honor-
ary degree of Doctor of Laws. Moore was
a former president of the local Rotary Club
and at his death had established a record
of 33 years of perfect attendance.

WeL

1913

BLAND TERRY, SR., founder and chairman
of the Bland Terry Shoe Corp. of Atlanta,
Ga., died March 21, 1974. He was a resi-
dent for the past several years of Bal Har-
bor, Fla. He established the Bland Terry
Shoe Corp. in 1939 and was president of
the firm until retiring in 1969. The shoe
firm, through Terry, was a generous bene-
factor of Washington and Lee, having es-
tablished the Thomas Green Terry Me-
morial Scholarship Fund in memory of one
of the original officers of the company who
was also a devoted alumnus of the Uni-
versity. The scholarship fund provides one
or more awards each year to deserving stu-
dents from Virginia. Terry was a native of
Lynchburg and was associated with the
Craddock-Terry Shoe Corp. of Lynchburg,
of which his father was a co-founder, be-
fore forming his own company in At-
lanta. Terry was a sergeant in the 80th
Blue Ridge Infantry Division in France dur-
ing World War I. He was elected to
honorary membership in Omicron Delta
Kappa at Washington and Lee in 1945 in
recognition of his outstanding leadership
abilities.

1914

James Cecit Powers of Bristol, Tenn., died
Feb. 24, 1974. He had retired a few years
ago after 63 years with Mitchell Powers

Hardware Co.
1916

THEODORE BRYANT LEITH of Morgantown,
W. Va. died Feb. 1, 1974.

1920

THOMAS MCALPIN StTuBBs, retired Atlanta
attorney and former member of the faculty
at the University of South Carolina Law
School, died in Columbia May 2, 1974.
Stubbs held a doctor of jurisprudence de-
gree from Harvard University. He was a
veteran of World War I and was admitted
to the bar of Georgia in 1923. A member
of the Georgia and American Bar Associa-
tions, Stubbs was president of the Atlanta
Lawyers Club in 1934-35. After many suc-
cessful years as an Atlanta lawyer, Stubbs
returned to Sumter, S. C. in 1946. The next
year he began teaching at the University
of South Carolina Law School. In 1956, he
retired to Dillard, Ga., but wintered in
Columbia. He was a prolific writer, au-
thoring numerous books and works on
genealogy and history. Stubbs was the last

May 1974

surviving founder of the Sumter County
Historical Society and was a former na-
tional historian of the Sigma Phi Epsilon
fraternity.

WILLIAM FADJO CRAVENS, a prominent at-
torney of Fort Smith, Ark., and a former
U.S. Congressman from the Fourth Arkansas
District, died April 16, 1974. Cravens was
also a former Fort Smith city attorney.

192]

DANIEL ALBERT ‘TAYLOR, a prominent at-
torney of Delray Beach, Fla., died March,
1974. At one time Taylor was chief coun-
sel for the Internal Revenue Service in
Washington, D. C.

193]

THE Rev. Robert C. KELL, who for many
years was an Episcopal minister in Had-
donfield, N. J., Baltimore County, Md.,
and Washington, D. C., died April 16, 1974.
Kell was rector of Anacostia Parish in
Washington, D. C. at the time of his death.
He was a former member of the Executive
Council Diocese of Washington and a for-
mer trustee of the Phillips Foundation in

Washington.
1932

Joun S. TEGGART, a long time resident and
businessman of Brownsville, Pa., died Feb.
24, 1974. He was the owner and operator of
the J. T. Supply Co. Teggart was a presi-
dent of the Brownsville Development Coun-
cil, a director of the Fayette Industrial De-
velopment Council, and a director of the
Greater Brownsville Area Chamber of Com-
merce.

M. WILLIAM ADELSON, a highly respected
lawyer, legal scholar, and a political ad-
viser of former Maryland Gov. Theodore
McKeldin, died at his Baltimore home
April 14, 1974. Although closely aligned
with Mr. McKeldin, a Republican, Adelson
was a life long Democrat who seemed to
be on the fringes of power regardless of
which party held office. He was appointed
by Governor Mandel as the first chairman
of the City-State Airport Authority, which
took over Friendship International Airport
in 1970. He had been a member of the
Lexington Market Authority earlier. Adelson
practiced law in the Court of Appeals, In-
terstate Commerce Commission and Immi-
gration Department before becoming as-
sociated between 1938 and 1943 with the
law firm of McKeldin, Michael Paul Smith,

and Charles E. Moylan. Adelson was a
member of a host of legal and educational
associations and the author of several legal
articles in text books and professional jour-
nals. He served as an active member of
a number of civic and charitable organiza-
tions, including the Urban League, the
Phoenix Club and the Coordinating Coun-
cil of the Baltimore Parent-Teacher As-
sociations. He also served on the Board of
the Baltimore Safety Council, the Brother-
hood of the Baltimore Hebrew Congregation,
and the Jewish Welfare Fund.

1940

Howarp McCLurE STITT, a Statistician for
the Vocational Planning Center in Cincin-
nati, Ohio, died May 14, 1973. Stitt served
in the U. S. Air Force for three years dur-
ing World War II.

1943

PauL Gust GANAS, attorney of Lexington,
Va., died March 28, 1974. A native of Nemea,
Greece, he came to the United States in
1913 and was graduated from the Washing-
ton and. Lee Law School in 1943. He was
a partner in the law firm of Ganas & Natkin
and was a member of the Virginia State
Bar Association and a past president of
the Rockbridge County-Buena Vista-Lexing-
ton Bar Association.

1950

RICHARD HARRISON LIPSCOMB, a member of
the legal department of Seaboard Coast
Lines Railroad Co. in Richmond, Va., died
April 3, 1974. Lipscomb was a prominent
attorney in the City of Richmond and
prior to going to Richmond had been with
the Seaboard Airline Railroad Co. in Nor-
folk, Va.

1951

J. THomaAs ENGLEBY, III, a prominent law-
yer in Roanoke, Va., and a former member
and chairman of the Roanoke County Board
of Supervisors, died April 26, 1974. Engleby
was a strong advocate of updating the
county government to meet urban needs.
He was active in many Republican cam-
paigns and participated in many civic ac-
tivities in Roanoke and in the county. He
was a former director of the Roanoke Arth-
ritis Foundation, the Mill Mountain Play-
house Co. and the Roanoke Historical Soc-
iety. |

23

 

The Alumni Office has no address for the alumni
listed below. Please check the list carefully, and if you
know the whereabouts of any of these lost alumni, send
the information to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,

Lexington, Virginia 24450. Thank you.

Thomas S. Sweeney, ’42
Seuchiro Takemura, ’32
John D. Taylor, °15

John E. Taylor, ’29
William P. Tedards, Jr., 64, ’67
Thomas N. Tennant, ’39
John R. Terney, Jr., ’53
Wallace B. Thacker, ’51
James L. Thixton, ’11
Arthur D. Thomas, ’55
Eugene F. Thomas, ’21
Walter C. Thomas, ’41
William D. Thomas, ’34
James E. Thompson, ’46
Lagarde J. Thompson, ’28
Carl L. Tipton, ’34
Joshua Tobin, Jr., ’67
Arthur H. Train, ’50
John S. Trimper, ’72
Philip W. Tschudy, ’24
Max Turk, ’29

Allan F. Turner, ’44
Herman A. Turner, ’60
Robert D. Turpin, ’35
Joseph A. Tvedt, Jr., ’65
Blake Tyler, ’20
‘Theodore R. Tyler, ’30

Alumni at Home

These alumni are hardly unlocated. They
were very much in Lexington for Spring Re-
unions and are here living it up at a cock-
tail party on the verandah of the Alumni
House. If you look closely, you will see one
alumnus taking a picture of President Hunt-
ley (left foreground) perhaps as a memento

to show the folks back home.

24

Robert P. Tyson, ’43

Bane T. Undewood, ’42
Robert C. Utley, ’67
Edward R. Vaden, 49

Paul J. VanBuskirk, ’38
John J. Vandale, ’37
William E. Vanderbilt, ’31
Charles M. Vandyke, ’42
Howard P. Vanetten, ’60
Charles E. Vanhorn, ’27
Milton S. Vanhoy, ’65

Willis A. Vann, ’23

Irwin L. Victor, 713

Royal S. Vilas, ’54

Joseph K. Vinson, 732
Verling A. Votaw, ’61
Robert D. W. Vroom, Jr., 46
John L. Waddy, ’03

John W. Wade, ’30
Thomas H. Wade, 718
Courtney Y. Wadlington, ’41
David M. Waelder, ’70
Charles E. Wagg, Jr., ’41
Stephen A. Waldron, ’70
John W. Walker, ’23
Thomas W. Walker, ’32
William S. G. Walker, IV, ’69

Help us round up
these lost alumni

Samuel S. Wallace, III, ’68
Eustace C. M. Waller, 42
Woollen H. Walshe, Jr., 57
Raymond S. Walters, ’11
Robert M. Walters, ’14
Julian W. Walthall, 69
Marvin I. Walton, Jr., 59
William R. Walton, ’15
Bernard R. Walzer, ’07
Patrick C. Warfield, ’43
John D. Waring, III, °45
Moffett D. Warren, ’63
David W. Warthen, ’28
Edward D. Watkins, ’38
James D. Watson, ’16
Frederic A. Watts, ’24
James M. Wearn, ’64
Henry M. Weis, ’30
Henry E. Weise, 55
Donald D. Welch, Jr., ’43
William A. Welch, ’36
Stephenson Wells, ’37
Orville M. Wellslager, ’27
Edmund A. P. West, ’65
Roy L. Wheeler, Jr., ’43
Charles W. Whetham, III, ’71
Henry M. White, ’32
Isaac L. White, III, 52
James T. White, ’70
John T. White, Jr., ’06
Edwin N. Whitehead, ’27
Gary H. Whitfield, ’56
Robert L. Wieland, ’23
John S. Wilder, Jr., ’33
James E. Wilkerson, ’64

Maxwell P. Wilkinson, ’28
F. R. D. Williams, ’45
Francis S. Williams, ’48
George A. William, Jr., 44
Lawrence M. Williams, 718
Price Williams, Jr., ’31
Thomas K. Williams, ’35
Otis T. Williamson, ’59
Merrill E. Wilson, ’25
Tyree F. Wilson, ’36
Rader W. Winget, Jr., °57
Charles D. Withers, 37
Herbert H. Wolf, Jr., 43
Douglas G. Wolfe, ’32
Albert E. Wolff, ’34
Arthur A. Wolk, ’32
Steve P. Womack, ’30
Warren W. Wood, ’11
William P. Wood, ’40
John M. Woodcock, ’32
Shepherd J. Woodhouse, ’12
Albert H. Woodruff, ’46
Corbin Woodward, Jr., ’55
Howard L. Wormser, ’41
Charles W. Wright, 713
Giles C. Wright, ’37

John P. Wurster, ’29
Kenneth E. Yager, ’32
Peter S. Yager, "42
Norman R. Yonan, ’20
Arthur L. Young, ’25
John W. Young, ’32

Peter E. Youngs, ’67
Kenneth J. Zarrilli, ’34

 

WeL

 

 

Alumni gather in front of Lee Chapel for coffee before the annual meeting of the Alumni Association.

Chapter Correspondents

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
W & L UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON VA

 

 

 

24450
THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings.
All profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

Price: $60.00 f.0.b.
Lexington, Virginia

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Immediate shipment from available stock.

 

 

