APRIL 1971

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

 

 

 

ERE

SAE PROCTER.

7) SPER ER SR RAT
SAS aT mi Te Aa ’
lated PRA eR CAT TERE RLY -
Aes Cia ae TLE? EE LE OES OED ~!
OPE: Ph BA TS PERERA S 3 .

628 ”

S303 *

7
SE i 7

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNUS

VOLUME 46 NUMBER 2 APRIL 1971

CONTENTS

. Lewis Whitaker Adams.
. A personal remembrance of Dean Adams.
. Lee Associates given new emphasis.
. Interviews with the deans.
. Scholarship honors Scharnberg.
. Campus news.
—prepared by Robert S. Keefe
17. Basketball begins new era.
18. Other athletic news.
20. Alumni.
22. Class notes.

oO Oe Of ef

COVER

Late at night, when most everyone else was gone, Dean
Lewis Whitaker Adams would remain in his office, either
reading, preparing for lectures, or counseling the many
students who would come to him for knowledge and ad-
vice. With his death, there is only a memory of the light
that used to glow in his office and the legacy it has now
come to symbolize.

EDITOR: William C. Washburn, 40
MANAGING EDITOR: Romulus T. Weatherman

ASSOCIATE EDITOR AND PHOTOGRAPHER:
A. Michael Philipps, 64

EDITORIAL ASSISTANT: Mrs. Joyce Carter

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC:
Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38, President

Emil L. Rassman, ’41, Vice-President

William C. Washburn, ’40, Secretary

Richard H. Turrell, 49, Treasurer

BOARD OF DIRECTORS: Upton Beall, ’51; Joe F.
Bear, ’33; Charles F. Clarke, Jr., 38; T. Hal Clarke, ’38;
A. Christian Compton, ’50; William H. Hillier, °38;
S. L. Kopald, Jr., 43; Dr. J. Peter Muhlenberg, ’50; Ed-
ward H. Ould, ’29; Emil L. Rassman, ’41; Beauregard A.
Redmond, ’55; Richard H. Turrell, ’49.

Published in February, April, June, August, October, and
December by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD Forms
3579 should be sent to ieee and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage paid at
Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges
at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

  
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
 
  
  
 

 

The legacy of Dean Lewis Whitaker Adams is larg
and this, in large measure, is why: He taught men to bef
businessmen and more—he taught businessmen to be firs
of all whole men, and he insisted that this should be a
principal goal of Washington and Lee’s commerce school
which he headed for 20 years. )

Dean Adams, once in discussing his philosophy of edu-
cation and the objectives of the commerce school, cited
this quotation of Jules Michelet: |

“Woe be to him who tries to isolate one departmen
of knowledge from the rest... All science is one: lan-
guage, literature and history, physics, mathematics and
philosophy; subjects which seem the most remote from
one another are in reality connected, or rather they all
form a single system.”’ |

Dean Adams continued: “Fortunately, the body «
available knowledge treating the never constant instit.
tional environment in which business enterprise mus
carry on its work as well as data on its functional organi-
zation and operation permit systematization, working
hypotheses, analysis and interpretation. More informa
tion, new methods, and better tools, mathematical an
nonmathematical, will greatly improve this phase of the
future businessman’s education, but we will have failed i/
we are unable to instill the need of continuing educatio1
to meet conditions of change and complexness.”

Dean Adams subscribed to this observation made by
Fred C. Cole, who was president of Washington and Lee
during much of Dr. Adams’ tenure as dean: |

“Twenty years ago, if I had asked a professor of busi-
ness administration what he was about, he would prob-
ably have told me that he was teaching people how to t
successful in business. As a young historian I might have
thought it more important that he teach his students ce
to make business an increasingly effective institution
within the democratic system. Today, I believe, many
collegiate schools of business are doing just that, while at
the same time and in the same process training successful
businessmen.”

Certainly, that ts what Dean Adams was about; thanks
in large measure to him and the excellent faculty he in-
sisted upon having, that is what the Washington and Lee
commerce school is about; and that is what thousands of
graduates of that school are about.

Dean Adams, whose death came on April g, will be
sorely missed by the Washington and Lee community. His
contributions to the betterment of human society and to
one of its most important creations—business enterprise—_
shall always be honored.

 

 

 

PEOPLE: 1

 

et eS

Lewis Whitaker Adams--1904-1971

Dr. Lewis Whitaker Adams, dean
of the School of Commerce and Ad-
ministration at Washington and
Lee University for 20 years until his
retirement in 1969, died April 3 in
Lexington following a long illness.

Dr. Adams—who would have been
67 on April 8—joined Washington
and Lee’s faculty in 1926 as assistant
professor of economics. Dean at the
time was Glover C. Hancock, the
man he replaced in 1949 when trus-
tees of the University elected him
fourth dean in the commerce
school’s history.

Born in Andrews, in the rugged
mountains west of Asheville in
North Carolina, Dr. Adams began
his career in business at an early
age: sweeping offices and counting
railroad cars in his father’s factory,
at a salary of $3.75 a week.

He earned his bachelor of science
degree in 1925 from the University
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill,
then taught economics at Cornell
for a year. His initial stay at Wash-
ington and Lee was short, only
three years; he returned to Cornell
for another year in 1930.

During the Depression, Dr.
Adams left the academic life alto-
gether, choosing instead to work on
Wall Street with Holsapple & Co.,
first as securities analyst and later
as manager of the firm’s statistical
department.

In 1940, however, he decided
that teaching—specifically, teaching
at Washington and Lee—was his
first love. He returned, this time as
assistant professor of economics.
Nine years later, not long after re-
ceiving his doctorate, he became
dean—the position he was to hold
the next two decades.

“Dean Adams came here 31 years
ago determined to devote his career
to providing lasting strength to
Washington and Lee’s School of

 

Commerce and Administration,”
President Robert E. R. Huntley
commented after Dr. Adams’ death.
Huntley had been a student at the
University when Dr. Adams was
named dean; he was president when
Adams retired.

“Because of his very large abili-
ties as a teacher and administra-
tor,” President Huntley said, ‘‘and
because of his unremitting devotion
to this University, he succeeded in
his objective. The fact of that suc-
cess stands as a more fitting me-
morial to him than could any for-
mula of words. His death brings
true sadness, for he was deeply re-
spected and beloved by his many
friends here and by the hundreds of
students whose affection for him
was of that special variety reserved
for those who profoundly touched
and vitalized their lives.”

Dean Adams’ devotion to Wash-
ington and Lee and to its students,
individually and as a body, was leg-
endary. ‘His’ men—including many
who had never taken a course un-

der him—kept in touch with him
always. His desk, hugely cluttered
in a way that was for him efficient,
contained piles of warm letters,
chatty and friendly and informa-
tive. And all the letters and all their

writers bore Dean Adams’ unmis-
takeable mark. (One, when he learn-
ed of Dean Adams’ death, said sim-
ply: “He was my dean.”)

Dr. Adams often remarked that
he cherished Washington and Lee’s
reputation as a teaching institution,
and he himself continued to teach
every semester in addition to his
administrative duties. Though he
was dean he taught an introductory
course in economics rather than
thrust the job on junior faculty
members; he also taught advanced
courses in business finance and in-
vestments.

His reputation in business circles
and among graduate schools was
such—and that of the commerce
school under his direction—that his
men prized a recommendation from
Dean Adams second only to the

 

2; PEOPLE

 

Washington and Lee diploma itself.

“He required his students to meet
the most rigorous standards,” a col-
league remarked. “But when he de-
cided that a student deserved, for
instance, to be admitted to a certain
graduate school, he pushed relent-
lessly. And he was almost invariably
successful.”

A key to Dean Adams’ educa-
tional philosophy was the para-
mount value he saw in a broad,
humane education. Firmly he chose
to direct his students away from
Over-specialization; majors were,
and are, offered in “core’’ subjects,
such as commerce, accounting, ad-
ministration and economics rather
than in narrow and extremely tech-
nical sub-fields.

He believed deeply that students
in the “C-school,” as his men

called it, need complementary edu-
cation in the liberal arts as well as
in their major fields. He emphasized
English when he advised students
on elective courses; young men in
business and government must have
no less ability than anybody else,
he would declare, to write and
speak clearly, precisely and effec-
tively.

Under Dr. Adams’ leadership,
Washington and Lee’s commerce
school maintained its membership
in the extremely selective Ameri-
can Association of Collegiate
Schools of Business. Only the best
one-fifth of commerce schools in
the country are eligible for mem-
bership, and Washington and Lee’s
is the smallest in the organization.

“His total dedication to the com-
merce school and to the University

Pasi EAL TT $65
ea my 4 : -
se iii. 5 Mise  *
Rie
cs

 

Dean Adams (r) with his successor Dean Atwood.

and its students,” remarked Dr.
Charles F. Phillips Jr., an economics
professor who was persuaded to
come to Washington and Lee in
1959 by Dean Adams, “were per-
haps most strikingly reflected in
the hours he kept. He came to work
early, and stayed almost through
the night.” Indeed, the light burn-
ing in his office at 1 or 2 a.m., be-
hind tightly drawn shades, was a
familiar indication at Washington
and Lee for 20 years that all was
well: Dean Adams was working
late again.

When Dean Adams reached the
mandatory age for retirement as a
dean in 1969, he was succeeded by
the first man he hired, Dr. Edward
C. Atwood Jr., professor of eco-
nomics. Dr. Adams continued to
teach until last December.

One of Dean Adams’ significant
legacies—there are too many to list
—is the quality of the faculty he re-
cruited to the School of Commerce.
Not only are they outstanding
teachers of young men, his first re-
quirement; they are scholars of na-
tional eminence in their professions.

Between 1949 and 1969, students
changed in countless respects. But
from the first whose diploma he
signed to the last, there was at least
one enduring characteristic: they
were his men, every one of them,
and they loved him deeply for it.

He is survived by his wife, the
former Miss May Davidson; his
father, Zala Adams; two brothers,
Gudger Adams of Andrews, N.C.,
and Stephen Adams of St. Peters-
burg, Fla.; a daughter, Mrs. Philip
Hamric, and a son, Thomas Hat-
cher Adams.

A graveside funeral service was
conducted in Stonewall Jackson
Cemetary in Lexington on April 5
by the Rev. Douglas C. Chase, pas-
tor of the Lexington Presbyterian
Church, of which Dr. Adams was a
communicant.

—RoseErT S. KEEFE

 

 

 

¢?

ee,

aes

 

 

““Lew”’

My first personal contact with Lew Adams took
place in 1952. I was a young instructor seeking a teach-
ing position. Lew was a new dean hiring his first
teacher. Lew was nervous; I was scared. We established
a rapport at that first meeting—a rapport that con-
tinued for almost 20 years. As I think back, I am sure
that there were a number of times when we did not
agree, but I think that there was never a time when
we did not respect each other (I hope not).

There are other people at Washington and Lee who
knew Lew longer and more intimately than I did. Lew
had an extremely close relationship with L. K. John-
son, a relationship that makes it impossible for L. K. to
write anything personal about him at this time.

Lew was one of the few truly dedicated men I have

ever known. There were only two important things in

his life—his family and the Washington and Lee School
of Commerce. He had no hobbies, no outside interests,
just complete immersion in family and school. All his
thoughts and all his activities were directed to one or
the other of these two concerns.

Lew wanted Washington and Lee to have the best

undergraduate business school in the country. Io

achieve this goal he wanted the best teaching faculty
that he could find, the best possible business major, and
a dedicated, proud student body. I believe that he
came close as was possible to the achievement of these
goals prior to his retirement as dean. The school was,
and is, his school in a very real sense.

No one worked as hard at teaching and as dean than
Lew Adams. He was always the first one in the office
in the morning and the last one to leave at night. He
was, without doubt, the most meticulous preparer of
lectures, and grader of papers I have ever known. His
textbooks were profusely underlined, margins filled
with handwritten comments, and jammed with current
material pertinent to the course. He agonized over each
examination paper, and filled the margins with de-
tailed comments. It was not at all unusual for Lew to
read a single paper four and five times when the grade
was crucial to the student being examined.

He was a tough teacher. No one in business finance
or investments completed the course without knowing
a great deal about the subject matter. Despite his de-
manding classes he won the lasting respect of those he
taught. I have heard more than one student apologize
to him for “letting him down” by writing an examina-
tion that was less than Lew expected. His sympathy
and understanding for students was deep, particularly

for those students who were not doing well. Many of
the endless hours he spent in his office were devoted to
student problems—academic, career, and personal.

During his tenure as dean, Lew hired 15 of the pres-
ent 17 faculty members now in the school. It was his
firm belief that the most important legacy he could
leave future generations of Washington and Lee stu-
dents was the best possible faculty he could find and
afford. Almost all of us remember the experience of
visiting the campus to be interviewed for a teaching
job, staying at Lew’s home, being wined and dined by
his charming wife, and discussing the various facets of
undergraduate education and teaching. It was Lew’s
firm belief that you could tell a great deal about a man
at breakfast—particularly if he had had a few bourbons
and had been kept up until three or four o’clock in hot
discussion the evening before. It was a very disconcert-
ing experience, especially since Dean Adams seemed to
thrive on no sleep.

One of Lew’s most difficult tasks was to make a
respected place for a business major in the Washington
and Lee liberal-arts undergraduate program. He was a
staunch believer in liberal education, and spent the
years of his tenure as dean structuring and restructur-
ing the business major to allow the student freedom
needed to achieve breadth. He did away with the very
specialized courses, accentuating the business theory
courses, and made the business major one that a stu-
dent could be proud to declare. By 1959, when the criti-
cal Pierson study (The Education of the American
Businessman), and the Gordon and Howell study
(Higher Education for Business) were published, the
Washington and Lee major in business already con-
formed with the recommendations of these reports.
Lew was in the forefront of those members of the
American Association of Collegiate Schools of Busi-
ness who constantly pushed for revision of the major
requirements. He was justly proud of our position in
this Association. Washington and Lee is the smallest
school accredited by the Association.

There is no doubt in my mind that Lew’s single-
minded devotion to his responsibilities as dean weak-
ened his health. He never spared himself when some-
thing needed to be done. We will all miss his presence,
but we will also keep in mind the example he set for
all of us.

—Epwarp C. ATwoop, JR.
Dean of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics

 

 

4: DEVELOPMENT

 

The Robert E. Lee Associates--A new emphasis

The Robert E. Lee Associates, an assemblage of Wash-
ington and Lee’s most devoted and generous supporters,
have taken the initiative to help the University surmount
the financial crisis that is confronting higher education
across the nation today.

Because the University’s costs are rising faster than in-
come, the Lee Associates, with the approval of the Board
of Trustees, have decided to concentrate all Associate
gifts—$1,000 or more within any 12-month period—where
they are most needed—in support of the University’s cur-
rent operating expenses.

And to give added impetus to Washington and Lee’s
annual giving program and to encourage others to emul-
ate the generosity of the Lee Associates, a new category
of membership within the Associates—known as “The
General’s Council’’—has been created. A Lee Associate
qualifies for membership in this select group if he gives
or pledges to give the University the sum of $10,000 or
more within any period of 12 consecutive years.

These changes in the direction of the Robert E. Lee
Associates were recommended to the Board of ‘Trustees by
the Steering Committee of the Lee Associates, a 22-mem-
ber group made up of Lee Associate members. ‘The forma-
tion of the Steering Committee was authorized by the
Trustees to determine what role the Lee Associates might
play in sustaining the vitality of Washington and Lee at
a time when the University is experiencing financial
strain.

The Steering Committee is headed by Richard H.
Turrell, a charter Lee Associate, senior vice president of
Fiduciary Trust Company of New York, and treasurer of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Association. Under his
guidance, the Steering Committee examined the progress,
potential, and purposes of the Associates against the back-
ground of the University’s current needs and goals and
came up with the recommendations which were unani-
mously endorsed by the Board of ‘Trustees.

The designation of all Lee Associate gifts for current
operating expenses represents only a slight modification
of the qualifications for membership in the Lee Associ-
ates. And the creation of “The General’s Council” offers

new incentives for Lee Associates to be of even greater
service to the University.

The Steering Committee noted that when the Robert
E. Lee Associates came into being in 1968 one of its stated
purposes was ““To provide a focus of leadership that will
give direction and impetus to all of the University’s an-
nual giving programs.” And it found that in the Univer-
sity’s present circumstances this focus has come to rest on
annual giving in support of current operating expenses
in the University’s educational and general budget. This
budget includes all operating costs of the University
other than those known as auxiliary enterprises—dormi-
tories, dining hall, bookstore, co-op, print shop and other
revenue producing properties that operate on a break-
even basis.

Dr. John Newton Thomas, rector of the Board of
Trustees, and Mr. Turrell, in a letter announcing the new
direction of the Lee Associates to current members, said:

“In making these decisions the Trustees have recog-
nized that Washington and Lee is entering a period of
maximum need. As at all colleges and universities across
the nation, costs of operation are rising faster than the
total income from all sources. Last year gifts intended for
our current operations were short of their goal. This year,
despite every effort to economize,,expenses already exceed
the rate that was anticipated when the budget was ap-
proved. Thus, increased gift support is still necessary to
offset the escalating cost of running the University. .. .

“The Board is deeply gratified that the initiative for
these changes has come from members of the Robert E.
Lee Associates themselves—men and women whose con-
cern for Washington and Lee and all that it represents is
one of the University’s greatest assets. As in the past, the
Trustees look to you for the leadership that this trying
period demands. . ..

“We hope that you will join the members of the Board
and your Steering Committee in enthusiastic endorsement

of those actions. Your support will undergird the Univer.”

sity’s educational program and sustain Washington and
Lee as an institution of truly distinctive merit.”
The Robert E. Lee Associates was established in , 968

&,. *

»

by the Board of ‘Trustees to enable the University to recog-
nize and honor those individuals whose support of Wash-
ington and Lee and whose enthusiasm for its role in edu-
cation are unmistakably above the ordinary. The program
had the unanimous endorsement of the Board of Directors
of the Washington and Lee Alumni Association.

In the little over three years of its existence, the Lee
Associates program has been extraordinarily successful in
providing leadership and support which has become an in-
dispensable source of strength and inspiration to Wash-
ington and Lee.

By the end of the charter year on December 31, 1968,
the impressive number of 170 persons—alumni, parents of
students, and friends—had become Robert E. Lee As-
sociates. Many of these members continued to give at the
$1,000-or-more-a-year level. Others joined the Associate
rolls at a gratifying rate. And today there are more than
270 Lee Associates whose contributions, in total, have ex-
ceeded $1 million.

The Lee Associates themselves have helped determine
the purposes of the association and to strengthen and
develop its program for the benefit of Washington and
Lee. The association has had able chairmen in David D.
Johnson, ‘21A and ’23L, secretary and a director of Bene-
dum-Trees Oil Company in Pittsburgh; Thomas H.
Broadus, ‘21, owner of Thomas Broadus & Co., a general
insurance agency in Knoxville, Tenn.; and now Turrell,
‘49, who assembled the present Steering Committee.

The distinctiveness of the Robert E. Lee Associates
program received national recognition in 1969 when it was
cited for excellence by the American College Public Rela-
tions Association.

The success of the program may also be attributed to
the strong desire of many loyal supporters of Washington
and Lee to join in a perpetual association devoted to ad-
vancing the welfare of the University and, at the same
time, paying lasting tribute to the memory and the edu-
cational foresight of Robert E. Lee, whose personal ideals
have touched the lives of everyone who has attended the
University.

The conditions of membership are:

Any alumnus or friend of the University who contri-
butes to Washington and Lee during a 12-month period
the sum of $1,000 or more in cash or marketable securi-
ties for current operating expenses shall become a member
of the Robert E. Lee Associates. A pledge of $1,000 en-
titles the donor to membership, provided that the pledge
is paid within 12 months of the date the pledge is made.
A single gift at this level qualifies the donor for life mem-
bership.

A Robert E. Lee Associate qualifies for membership in
‘The General’s Council” if he gives or pledges to give the
University the sum of $10,000 or more within any period
of 12 consecutive years. An associate may fulfill this re-
quirement by gifts of $1,000 in any 10 of the 12 years, or
by larger gifts at less frequent intervals.

DEVELOPMENTS 5

 

Richard H. Turrell of Robert E. Lee Associates Steering Committee.

All prior contributions through the Lee Associates pro-
gram may be credited by donors to establish membership
in “The General’s Council.” And Lee Associates who
have given $10,000 since the establishment of the program
in 1968 automatically qualify for ‘“The General’s Coun-
cil.”’

The Steering Committee is now working to identify
and recruit new members of the Lee Associates and to
build membership in ‘“The General’s Council.”

Members of the Steering Committee besides Mr. Tur-
rell are: Thomas D. Anderson, ’34L, Houston, Tex.; Don-
ald W. Bourne, ’51A, Glen Ridge, N.J.; Thomas H.
Broadus, ’25A, Knoxville, Tenn.; Dr. George B. Crad-
dock, ’30A, Lynchburg, Va.; Stewart Epley, ’49A, New
York, N.Y.; Edwin J. Foltz, ’4oL, Gladwyne, Pa.; John P.
French, ’50A, Scottsdale, Ariz.; Robert A. Fulwiler, ’25A,
Wilmington, Del.; Richard D. Haynes, ’58L, Dallas, Tex.;
David T. Johnson, parent, Pensacola, Fla.; H. Reed
Johnston, ’28A, New York, N.Y.; George H. Lanier, Jr.,
290A, New York, N.Y.; Oliver M. Mendell, ’50A, New
York, N.Y.; J. Alvin Philpott, ’45A, Lexington, N.C.; Dr.
Albert Preston, Jr., parent, Kansas City, Mo.; C. Walton
Rex, ‘25A, Orlando, Fla.; Richard T. Scruggs, parent,
Birmingham, Ala.; Bland Terry, Jr., ’50A, Atlanta, Ga.;
William B. Wisdom, ’21A, New Orleans, La.; Robert R.
Witt, ’31A, San Antonio, Tex.; William P. Woodley, ’28L,
Norfolk, Va.

6; CAMPUS

The Deans Bill on tape

Pusey--'| think W&L has a bright future’
Watt--"The changes are going to continue’

On July 1, the deanship of the College of Washington
and Lee University will pass from Dr. William W. Pusey,
III, who has held the job for 11 years, to Dr. William J.
Watt, who has been assistant and associate dean for the
past five years.

Together the “Deans Bill” have wrestled almost daily
with the multiple and often complex questions—academic,
administrative, and personal—that descend upon the of-
fice of a dean in a university which cultivates close per-
sonal relationships among students, professors, and ad-
ministrators.

‘The Office of the Dean of the College has in fact been
a focal point of recent far-reaching academic develop-
ments at the University—changes involving a broadened
and liberalized curriculum and a revised calendar as well
as other refinements.

Deans Pusey and Watt thus have come to know in-
timately the character of Washington and Lee, the direc-
tion it is taking, and its prospects in the years ahead—a
knowledge acquired in the classroom as well as in the ad-
ministrative office. For they, like nearly all of Washing-
ton and Lee’s chief administrators, have continued to
teach in addition to their other duties. Dean Pusey teaches
German, Russian, and comparative literature, and Dean
Watt, chemistry.

Dean Pusey will return to full-time teaching as a pro-
fessor of German and head of the department, the posi-
tion he held when he was named dean in 1960. Dean
Watt, a professor of chemistry, will continue to teach, but
necessarily on an abbreviated schedule.

Dean Pusey, 60, has been at Washington and Lee since
1939, the year he received his Ph.D. degree from Columbia
University. He holds the B.S. from Haverford College and
the M.A. from Harvard. Dean Watt, 45, joined the faculty
in 1955. He holds the B.S. from the University of Illinois,
a master’s and the Ph.D. from Cornell University.

‘They are similar in many respects, particularly in their
approach to their work and in their dedication to Wash-
ington and Lee University. They laugh easily, speak
softly, and wear a low profile. (Dean Pusey is noted for his
collection of cartoons from the New Yorker which he uses
to emphasize ideas in speeches and conversations. Dean
Watt sings well and is at home in any choir. He also likes
to cook, specializing in fancy desserts.)

Shortly after the announcement of the change in
deanship, Deans Pusey and Watt were interviewed separ-
ately by Robert S. Keefe, director of public information at

the University. The interviews were broadcast over Lex-
ington’s radio station WREL. Excerpts from those inter-
views follow:

Dean Pusey—on stepping down as dean: I have mixed
feelings. In most ways, it has been a very rewarding ex-
perience despite, of course, some frustrations. It has been
rewarding to work with such top-flight people as Presi-
dent Cole and President Huntley, and the other admini-
strative people, and to try to be “a friend in power,” to
borrow the title of a novel by Carolos Baker, to our fine
faculty.

On the other hand, I am looking forward "to returning
to full-time teaching in which I was engaged for about 20
years before becoming dean of the College, and to the op-
portunity to get back to scholarly projects I had under
way in the 1950's, but had to abandon during the last dec-
ade. And possibly I will have more time for civic and pub-
lic service activities.

Dean Watt—on recent curricular development: Dean
Pusey certainly has been greatly responsible for the atmos-
phere which has produced these changes. Many other
members of the faculty have been involved in long hours
of committee work and study which brought these changes
about. ‘They really are not too sharp changes. I think it
has been more a gradual evolution, over the past few
years, from what I have always considered, since I came
to Washington and Lee, a position of great strength.

Washington and Lee’s academic programs have always
been strong, and these changes have brought our curri-
culum up to the needs of today’s students and in line with
the current concepts of liberal arts education. I would say
that what we are trying to do is to tailor instruction at
Washington and Lee more to the individual needs of the
student.

For instance, rather than requiring certain courses, stu-
dents now have a choice within a very broad range of
courses to meet their distribution requirements. Then the
new calendar of two 12-week terms and one six-week term
and the new programs associated with the new curriculum
are also tailored to the individual. ‘The short term js a
special time when students can do research or take some

 

2.
Dean of the College Dr. William W. Pusey III, left, and Dr.
William J. Watt, who will assume the position July 1, offered
their views on the Washington and Lee scene in recorded
interviews taped in March.

a.

Mm

ef

special course designed for a short period rather than the
traditional semester length.

Dean Pusey—on where the changes are leading: I think
Washington and Lee has a bright future. I think we will
continue our flexible approach to education without
surrendering our distinctive features. I hope—and I am
convinced—that 10 years from now we will still be among
the top private colleges in the country. We should endea-
vor to adopt the best of new developments without giving
up valid traditions. We should thus, I think, honor our
history without becoming its prisoner. Many people are
talking these days about the rate of change, but I think
with the imaginative leadership we will have from my
colleagues on the administration and from the faculty we
will be able to adapt well to the “future shock” that Toff-

a

CAMPUS: 7

ler predicts in his recent book by that name.

Dean Watt—on the prospect for further change: The
changes will not stop. If there is anything I have learned
in the past five years in the dean’s office, it is that the
changes are going to continue, and change is probably
going to be the only constant.

Dean Pusey—on Washington and Lee’s major strengths:
Its greatest strength lies in the quality of its faculty. Pos-
sibly, I am a bit partial in this since so many of our fac-
ulty members in the College have been appointed since
I have been dean—actually about 70 out of 110. But in
this, as in many other things, the departments bear a
major responsibility and deserve the chief credit. It is a
matter of shared responsibility. I am not, of course, in any

#

Ea —
:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

83° CAMPUS

way deprecating the leadership of the president, the vari-
ous deans, and the trustees, and I think we have very
loyal alumni. And, of course, we have talented and ver-
satile students, who are our chief reason for existence.

Dean Watt—on the ideals of Washington and Lee’s
educational goals: The University’s statement of pur-
pose says: “Fundamental to all aspirations of Washington
and Lee University are two basic purposes—the dedica-
tion of all its resources to the development of man’s
capacity and desire to learn, to understand and pass on to
others the varied benefits of this intellectual growth.”

This statement, I think, sums up the essential purpose
of Washington and Lee. Our purposy is to teach students
who come to us to learn. Now this has always been,
through the ages, the essential purpose of all universities.
In the last few years, some universities have gone off in
other directions—into specializing in scholarship and re-
search—and I believe these, too, have an important role.
But at Washington and Lee, I think, the primary role is
assisting in the learning of students.

The other part of the statement says: “The pursuit of
its educational purpose in a climate of learning that
stresses the importance of the individual, his personal
honor and integrity, his harmonious relationship with his
fellow men, his responsibility to serve society through the
productivity of his training and his talent.”

I think Washington and Lee has always excelled in
these areas, too. Examples are the role which students take
in self-government and the honor system which plays an
important part in forming our students’ ideas about
themselves and about the world. I think our alumni show
up well in the aspect of going into the world and serving
society. Many attain high places in government and the
judiciary. And many more are the kind of people who
make communities really work by doing volunteer work
in various organizations which sustain and improve those
communities, such as the United Fund, arts councils, and
SO On.

Dean Pusey—on the character of today’s generation of
students: Year after year I have been impressed by our
students, by their manifold talents, their great energy, and
immense versatility. I am opposed to categorizing people
by age groups or any other groupings. I like students. As
dean my relationship with students, unfortunately, had to
be rather formal. A student would come in with a request,
and I would say, “Sorry, that is against faculty regula-
tions; what you have to do is petition this committee or
that committee.’ And sometimes I have to say “‘no,” and I
don’t enjoy being an “abominable no man”’ although that
is what the job sometimes calls for.

So I am going to enjoy knowing more students again
in the casual classroom situation. Washington and Lee,
as I have said on other occasions, is not and should not be
an island. Our students are subject to the same influences

that affect students on other campuses, and today’s stu-
dents, as has often been pointed out, are more likely to
challenge authority than a decade ago. But by and large,
I find our students reasonable. I suppose more students
here, and elsewhere, seem to be experiencing a kind of
general malaise, but they also show a greater concern—
to use an unavoidable cliché—for a better quality of life,
and this is very good.

I am not convinced that our students are brighter than
they used to be, for we have always had bright students at
Washington and Lee. But I do think that through the
quick pace of change and the influence of the mass media,
particularly, they are more aware of more things than stu-
dents of earlier periods.

Dean Watt—on today’s students: Well, I am sort of old
fashioned about that, I am afraid. A student came to my
office the other day, and I told him what I thought stu-
dents were like. I told him that I didn’t think they were
much different today from what they ever were. And he
said, “Oh, that’s what all the older generation says.” But,
even so, I still believe it; he didn’t convince me. I think,
just as in General Lee’s time, that Washington and Lee
students are gentlemen. If you read Dr. Crenshaw’s history
of Washington and Lee, I think you will find that
through the years, although there have always been some
exceptions, the students have maintained gentlemanly
concern and behavior. Of course, some styles are differ-
ent. he hair style is different from what it was when I
first same to W&L. It might be fairly close to that of Gen-
eral Lee’s time. But I think the students are bright and
concerned, and to me they are very stimulating. I teach,
and I enjoy teaching, and I find in the classroom that it is
great fun to talk to the students and to hear what they
have to say. I think they are a wonderful bunch of people.

Dean Pusey—on his hopes for Washington and Lee:
This is, I suppose, a kind of personal credo. There are
three qualities I hope we will be able to keep at Wash-
ington and Lee—qualities in which I believe strongly, and
which, although not necessarily fashionable at the present
time in some academic circles, I think have validity. These
three are humor and civility and rationality. Now ob-
viously there are lots of things that are deadly serious in
our world, but occasionally laughter or a private smile can
certainly be helpful in meeting the exacerbations of mod-
ern life. Civility is no substitute for social concern, of
course, but without civility the demands for alterations
can easily become counterproductive. While we all ob-
viously have feelings as well as reasons, I don’t see how a
university, of all institutions, can long survive without
the retention and maintenance of reason and rational dis-
course. I certainly prefer reason to rhetoric. At least, that’s
the way it seems to me after almost 11 years as dean of the
College, and I am convinced that we will succeed in keep-
ing these qualities also.

PEOPLE:

- Scholarship honors Maj. Scharnberg

~

&

Maj. Ronald Oliver Scharnberg, a
1963 graduate of Washington and Lee
and a career Army officer, was killed
on March 17 in South Vietnam while
on a military aircraft reconnaissance
mission. He was 29 and was serving his
third voluntary tour of duty in South
Vietnam.

He is a son of Mrs. Lady Elizabeth
Luker of Newport, Ark., and Oliver
H. Scharnberg of Westwood, Mass.

The family has established a schol-
arship fund at Washington and Lee in
memory of Maj. Scharnberg. The fund
will provide competitive honor schol-
arships for freshmen and upperclass-
men with preference to be given to
students who are considering a mili-
tary career. Details will be announced
later.

Maj. Scharnberg, a native of New-
port, held the B.A. in English from
W&L. He was also a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee’s R.O.T.C. program
and was commissioned a 2nd lieuten-
ant here in 1963. He was a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity and was its assis-
tant rush chairman. He was active in
the White Friars and Mongolian
Minks.

In Vietnam, he was a military ad-
viser to the South Vietnamese forces,
served one year as captain with the 5th
Special Forces Group, and at the time
of his death was the officer in charge of
operations for the grd Battalion, 187th
infantry of the 101st Airborne Divi-
sion.

After leaving W&L, Maj. Scharn-
berg completed infantry officer basic
training, graduated from Ranger
school, and won his wings upon com-
pletion of airborne training at Fort
Benning, Ga. At Fort Sill, Okla., he
received certificates for emergency
medical training and for completion of
artillery and missile school. At Fort
Bragg, N.C., he attended Special War-
fare School. He later received a di-
ploma from the Defense Language In-
stitute at the Presidio in Monterey,
Calif.

He was commissioned a Regular

 

Major Scharnberg

Army officer in November, 1969, and
was promoted to major on January 2,
1970. Upon completion of the Infantry
Advanced Career Course, he was as-
signed to the 8th Infantry Division
Headquarters in Germany.

During the course of his career he
was awarded the Air Medal, the
Bronze Star Medal, the Army Com-
mendation Medal for meritorious serv-
ice, and the Vietnamese Airborne
Wings by the Republic of South Viet-
nam.

The following citation (in part) at
the close of his tour with the 8th In-
fantry in Germany describes his ability
as an officer:

‘Maj. Ronald O. Scharnberg . . .
is cited for meritorious service during
the period of May, 1969, to August,
1970. During this period Maj. Scharn-
berg served as Operations Officer of the
Gg Section, 8th Infantry Division. As
operations officer, Maj. Scharnberg was
responsbile for a wide range of duties,
many of which were of a highly sensi-
tive nature and vital to the security of
the United States Army in Europe. In
every mission assigned, regardless of
the complexity or difficulty, Maj.
Scharnberg proved himself extremely
capable. He was personally responsible
for control of the division nuclear re-
lease system, preparation of the divi-
sion monthly and quarterly readiness

reports, and for supervision of the divi-
sion tactical operations center. He
handled each of these important tasks
with great efficiency and was instru-
mental in rewriting regulations and
policies, improving the functioning of
operations under his control.

“Through his loyalty, enthusiasm,
and dedication to duty, Maj. Scharn-
berg set the example for those who
worked for him, and placed himself
high in the standing of his superiors,
contemporaries, and _ subordinates
alike. Maj. Scharnberg greatly en-
hanced the Gg Section, and brought
great credit upon himself, the 8th In-
fantry, and the United States Army.”

Portions of a letter received from
a young friend reveal his character and
the place he held in the hearts of his
contemporaries:

“Maj. Scharnberg was a distin-
guished officer and soldier, beloved
son, and devoted husband whose dedi-
cation to country and duty brought ad-
miration and inspiration from his com-
rades-in-battle and friends and fellow
Americans. Ron was courageous, but
not reckless. He was aggressive, but not
overbearing. He was a leader of men,
but not aloof. He turned a restless
spirit into valued accomplishments.
He was a man of stern purpose with a
ready smile. He was a participant in
life and not a spectator. He loved God
and life and those around him and
was much loved in return.

“He was a man among men, in
troubled times, in a changing world,
who clung to the heritage and tenets
of freedom. He was a twentieth-cen-
tury patriot who will be long remem-
bered, loved, and deeply missed.”

He was married in 1968 to Marilyn
Stevens in San Francisco. She survives
along with his parents and his broth-
ers, James Scharnberg of Philadelphia,
Pa., Timothy Watson, and William
Luker of Newport.

He was a member of St. Paul’s Epis-
copal Church in Newport, and serv-
ices were held there on March 27, with
military rites at the graveside.

9

10: CAMPUS

 

Assistant dean of the College Dr. Robert W. McAhren.

MicAhren new assistant dean

Dr. Robert W. McAhren, associate
professor of American history, has been
named to become assistant dean of the
College at Washington and Lee, effective
July 1.

The announcement was made jointly
by President Robert E. R. Huntley and
Dr. William J. Watt, who will become
dean of the College, the University’s larg-
est academic division, also on July 1. Dr.
Watt, currently associate dean and pro-
fessor of chemistry, will succeed Dr. Wil-
liam W. Pusey, III, who is retiring after 20
years as dean to return to full-time teach-
ing.
Dr. McAhren, 35, joined the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty in 1966 and was pro-
moted to associate professor in 1970. He
received his B.A. degree in 1958 from
Southern Methodist University and the
Ph.D. degree in 1967 from the Univer-

sity of Texas. At Washington and Lee he
teaches courses in American social and in-
tellectual history as well as the depart-
ment’s senior-level research seminar in his-
tory as a discipline and its methods.

He is a member of the Faculty Execu-
tive Committee and served last year as a
temporary member of the Committee on
Courses and Degrees. The dean of the
College’s office is involved ex officio on
every major faculty committee and par-
ticipates in all academic policy formula-
tion. Dr. McAhren will share the office’s
responsibilities with Dr. Watt, handling
most day-to-day administrative decision-
making. He will also continue to teach.

Dr. Watt, in his announcement, said he
was extremely pleased that Dr. McAhren
had agreed to accept the assistant dean-
ship. He praised McAhren’s “excellent
judgment, his extraordinarily perceptive

analytic ability, his articulate, amiable,
and open personality, and his ready wit.”

As a teacher at the University of ‘Texas
in 1964, Dr. McAhren was voted a ““Teach-
ing Excellence” award by the student gov-
ernment. He is co-editor of European
Origins of American Thought, published
in 1969 by Rand, McNally, and has con-
tributed a number of articles to the forth-
coming Encyclopedia of World Buio-
graphy, to be published by McGraw Hill.

Dr. McAhren said the new task “pre-
sents me with the opportunity to see a
little more of the interior of Washington
and Lee’s administrations.

“The actual process of making deci-
sions at- W&L is more complex than it
appears from outside. Often there are
very compelling reasons for a decision that
aren’t obvious to casual observers.”

Davis papers donated

The legal papers of the late John M.
Davis, the Democratic presidential candi-
date in 1924, have been donated to Wash-
ington and Lee by the law firm in which
he was a senior partner for many years.

The 150-volume set of briefs, called
Davis’ Cases and Points, were presented to
Roy L. Steinheimer, dean of the School of
Law at Washington and Lee, by Davis,
Polk, & Wardwell of New York, where he
practiced until his death in 1955.

Davis earned his A.B. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1892 and his law
degree in 1895. He became the Democratic
party’s nominee for President on the 103rd
ballot in 1924, but lost the election to
Calvin Coolidge.

The West Virginia native—a congress-
man, solicitor general, and ambassador to
Great Britain, as well as a successful Wall
Street lawyer and Washington and Lee
trustee and law professor—defeated Wil-
liam McAdoo, Gov. Al Smith, Sen. Carter
Glass of Virginia, and Sen. Oscar Under-
wood for the nomination.

Davis’ Cases and Points include several
hundred briefs he filed on appeal to the
U.S. Supreme Court.

The briefs included in the volumes
given to Washington and Lee involved
such important cases as Springer v. the
Government of the Phillipines, in which
the Supreme Court applied with strictness
the Constitutional doctrine of separation
of powers, overturning a law passed by the
legislature giving it a sharing role in exe-
cutive decisions; and cases involving the
state of West Virginia against Pennsyl-

Me

a*

vania and against a natural gas company
on critical issues of taxes and similar state
limitations on gas produced for interstate
sale.

Other Davis briefs of enduring Con-
stitutional importance include a landmark
argument on selective conscientious objec-
tion for aliens who wish to become na-
turalized citizens, and the legal distinction
between conscious and negligent misrepre-
sentation by public accountants.

Describing the gift from Davis’ law
firm as “a valuable addition to our li-
brary collection,” Dean Steinheimer said:
“During his long and distinguished career
at the bar, Mr. Davis probably argued
more cases before the U.S. Supreme Court
than any other lawyer. As an advocate be-
fore that court, he participated in shaping
legal policies affecting our nation for al-
most half a century.”

New EC president

Stephen W. Robinson, a junior major-
ing in history and Latin, has been elected
president of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s student body for the 1971-72 acade-
mic year.

A native of Alexandria, he won the
position in a runoff ballot, forced when he
fell four votes short of capturing the nec-
essary majority in a three-way contest
during the general election.

Also elected in the student voting were
vice president Glenn M. Azuma, a junior
from New Milford, N.J.; secretary Richard
Gray, a sophomore from Dallas; Robert
LaRue, a junior from Houston, president
of the Interfraternity Council; Brian
Greig, a junior from Austin, Tex., presi-
dent of the Fancy Dress set (which now ap-
pears to be back after a year’s death); and
Richard Middleton, a sophomore from
Charlottesville, vice president of the Dance
Board.

As student body president next year,
Robinson will head the Executive Com-
mittee, which functions as the principal
legislative agency in student affairs and
which also exercises sole jurisdiction over
the Honor System at Washington and Lee.
In addition, he will have primary respon-
sibility for selecting student representa-
tives to many major faculty committees
and will preside over a large number of
student committees and sub-agencies.

Robinson has been vice president of his
class since his sophomore year. Last Decem-
ber, he was one of two juniors at the Uni-
versity named to Omicron Delta Kappa,

the national honorary leadership frater-
nity.

He is currently chairman of the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee, which works
closely with Washington and Lee’s admis-
sions and development offices, and he is an
ex-officio student delegate to the Univer-
sity’s admissions committee.

In addition, he is a member of the Re-
publican Club, serves as associate justice
on the Interfraternity Council, and has
just completed a term as president of his
social fraternity, Phi Kappa Psi.

Robinson singles out the Honor Sys-
tem as one of the best things about Wash-
ington and Lee, and he says it pretty
much determines the tone of life at the
University.

“There have been a lot of people
talking about changing it; things have
been said about altering the [absolute]
penalty. But I think it must be stressed
that one of the best things about the
Honor System is its simplicity. I think one
of its implicit strengths lies in the fact that
there is some room for interpretation . .
for there is no real problem with degrada-
tion of penalties.

“T think also the benefits of the Honor
System are outstanding to students and
faculty as well. It is still true that you can

Student body president Steve Robinson.

CAMPUSs 11

walk out of your dorm room or your fra-
ternity house and never have to worry
about locking the door for fear of people
coming in. It’s also very valuable in that it
gives students and faculty more real acade-
mic freedom; you can take a test whenever
you feel like it and never have to worry
about the professor walking in on you,
and the professor doesn’t feel that he has
to watch you all the time, ‘proctoring’ an
examination.

“It also benefits the faculty, in that it
can trust the students not only during
tests but also when students do outside
work.”

Robinson feels that the University
should not become politically involved. “I
really don’t think it’s the place of the
University to become a political instru-
ment. I think that as individuals acting
within the University goes, whatever poli-
tical action they want to take is fine. I
think that because they are together at
Washington and Lee gives them a chance
to act in groups. But in any sort of ‘poli-
tical involvement,’ we have to consider
the rights of the minority—which was
considered last year in the action that the
University [faculty] took. I think that if
the University had taken action last year
such as ‘closing’ the University or stop-

 

14: CAMPUS

ping classes we would have run into many
problems, not only from those students at
W&L who are here now, but also a lot of
criticism would have resulted that would
eventually have hurt the University.”

Robinson, in offering an overview of
the strengths of the University, points to
the faculty, along with the Honor System,
as an outstanding feature of the school.
“The faculty here is a teaching faculty,
and, with the small number of students, we
have a very good faculty-student relation-
ship. It is very common to have classes
with fewer than 10 students, and most
people very rarely have a class with more
than 20. I think this, plus the attitude of
the faculty in that they want to help the
students... they’re not just there to mark
time but rather they want to teach stu-
dents and they’re there because they like
to teach ... is a big benefit.

“The size of the school allows a lot of
people more opportunity to participate in
more activities, such as student govern-
ment, athletics, and anything else students
want to get into that they wouldn’t have a
chance at a larger university. The small
university lends itself to an attitude of
friendliness. It’s very common for most
people, by the time they graduate, to
know almost all the people in their class,
know most of the people around them. I
think this leads to a better, more friendly
atmosphere.”

Forget television law

A mock murder trial staged by students
of Washington and Lee’s School of Law to
illustrate legal processes to high school
students was presented at Rockbridge
High School in Fairfield in early March.

Participating in the unusual educa-
tional experience were H. William Wal-
ker, Jr., Robin P. Hartmann, Jerrald J.
Roehl, and James Slay, all law seniors and
highest-ranking students in a first-semester
legal course in trial practice.

Walker and Slay, representing the pros-
ecution, the Commonwealth of Virginia,
attempted to show that Percy W. Snod-
grass was guilty in the second degree of
murdering his friend Robert “Butch”
Burley after the two had returned from a
bar and begun arguing. Hartmann and
Roehl took on Snodgrass’ defense, claim-
ing the homicide was justifiable on the
grounds of self-defense.

Professor Lawrence D. Gaughan of the
School of Law, who taught the course in
trial practice, accompanied the students

 

Law student James Slay urged jurors to forget Perry Mason.

and served as the trial’s judge.

“You could hear a pin drop,” Walker
said afterwards. ‘““They were extremely in-
terested in what we were doing, and I
think they learned some of the procedures
that actually might take place in a real
trial.”

The law students were available after
the trial to answer student questions and
to explain in greater detail the reasons and
logic behind the procedures they had
taken earlier.

“At the beginning, we asked them to
forget Perry Mason,” Slay said. “We asked
them to think only about what was going
to be said and what the evidence would
show. I think we convinced them that
there’s more to-the law than what they
have seen on television.”

The invitation to the Washington and
Lee law students to conduct the trial was
extended by Alan Beamer, the principal
of Rockbridge High School.

Ten elected to PBK

Ten Washington and Lee undergradu-
ates and one alumnus have been elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa.

Newly elected seniors are James R.
Allen, Silver Spring, Md.; Joseph H. Bos-
ley, III, Shreveport, La.; Craig S. Bow,
Rochester, N.Y.; Stephen Clement, Dan-
ville, Va.; Christopher D. Friend, Moun-

tain Lakes, N.J.; Thomas W. Hudson, III,
Greensboro, N.C.; Harry R. Phillips, III,
Spartanburg, S.C.; and Ryan B. Sartor,
Forbing, La.

Members elected from the junior class
were Frank R. Benton, Jr., Arlington
Heights, Ill. and Lloyd M. Goodman, Nor-
folk, Va.

Milford B. Hatcher, Macon, Ga., Class
of 1970, was also named to membership.

All the students elected have been con-
sistent Honor Roll and Dean’s List stu-
dents.

Allen, a business administration major,
is a member of Washington and Lee’s foot-
ball team and serves as treasurer of Phi
Kappa Psi, his social fraternity.

Bosley is a member of Phi Eta Sigma,
an honorary fraternity for students who
achieve exceptional distinction during
their freshman year. He majors in Wash-
ington and Lee’s interdepartmental sci-
ence program and is active in Alpha Epsi-
lon Delta, a pre-medical fraternity.

A geology major, Bow is a member of
Phi Eta Sigma and the Geology Society.

Clement is chairman of the Student
Curriculum Committee this year and
serves as an upperclass counselor in the
freshman dormitory. He is a history major.

Friend is a member of the track team
and serves as treasurer of Alpha Epsilon
Delta. He majors in chemistry.

A member of the Student Financial

 

 

 

(

Relations Committee, Hudson is also his-
torian of Alpha Epsilon Delta. He majors
in Washington and Lee’s pre-medical pro-
gram.

Phillips, a chemistry major, is Alpha
Epsilon Delta vice president, president of
the University’s weekly Chemistry Semi-
nar series, a member of Phi Eta Sigma, and
serves on the Student Financial Relations
Committee.

Sartor also majors in Washington and
Lee’s pre-medical program. He serves as
vice president of the senior undergraduate
class from the science divisions, and is an
officer in his social fraternity, Beta Theta
Pi.

Benton and Goodman, the two juniors
elected to Phi Beta Kappa membership,
are both active in Phi Eta Sigma. Benton,
a chemistry major, is a member of the
swimming team and participates in Alpha
Epsilon Delta. Goodman is a French
major at Washington and Lee.

The Phi Beta Kappa _ convocation
speaker was Dr. O. B. Hardison, director
of the Shakespeare Library in Washing-
ton. His topic was “An Old Age is Out.”

No show=no vote

By failing to vote at all, students have
rejected a proposed new student body
constitution that would have changed the
character and institutions of their govern-
ment substantially.

The proposed new governmental sys-
tem would have established two co-equal
branches, a 33-member legislative body
and a 12-man ‘‘Honor Court,’ whose ex-
clusive function would have been to ad-
minister Washington and Lee’s Honor
System.

Only 631 students voted in the special
referendum, and of that number 530 fav-
ored the proposed constitutional changes.
Half of the total student enrollment, cur-
rently 1,475 students, must approve any
constitutional change or revision for it to
take effect at the University.

The old constitution, which will re-
main in operation intact, provides for one
branch, called the Student Executive Com-
mittee, which handles all legislative, ad-
ministrative, and judicial matters.

Proponents of the defeated arrange-
ment argued that elections to the stu-
dent Executive Committee could not be
expected to provide the best men for all its
responsibilities so long as no distinction
was made between legislative and judicial
(Honor System) candidates.

The proposal was the result of ex-
tensive work on the parts of the incum-
bent Executive Committee and a ‘“con-
stitutional convention” of student-named
delegates.

Following the student body’s failure to
support the new constitution proposal, the
Ring-tum Phi quoted incumbent Execu-
tive Committee president Francis M. Law-
rence as saying: ““We might have called
the question to a vote too soon. I dof’t
think the students want a new constitu-
tion.”

Price to visit

Reynolds Price, the noted American
novelist and short story writer, will visit
the University for two weeks in May un-
der the University’s Glasgow Endowment
Visiting Scholars program.

The author of A Long and Happy Life,
which won the William Faulkner prize in
1962 as the year’s best first novel, Price has
also written The Names and Faces of
Heroes (1963), a collection of stories; A
Generous Man (1966) and Love and Work
(1968), both novels; and, last year, Per-
manent Errors, another collection of
stories.

During his two-week visit to Washing-
ton and Lee, scheduled May 10 through
21, he will deliver at least one public lec-
ture and one or two readings. Other pub-
lic appearances may be scheduled as well,
according to the Glasgow Committee, un-
der whose sponsorship Price will appear.

In addition, the writer will maintain
office hours at the University for student

 

Author Reynolds Price.

CAMPUS: 13

writers and will, when possible, read and
critique their manuscripts.

Born in Macon County, N.C., Price re-
ceived his B.A. degree from Duke Univer-
sity in 1955, and as a Rhodes Scholar he at-
tended Merton College, Oxford for three
years. He returned to Duke as a member
of the English faculty in 1968, where he is
now associate professor. He has served as
writer-in-residence at the Universities of
Kansas and North Carolina (Chapel Hill).

The Arthur Graham and Margaret
Glasgow Endowment, created in 1960
through a bequest from Mr. Glasgow, is
designed “‘to promote the art of expression
by pen and tongue.” Previous Glasgow
Visiting Scholars have included Katherine
Anne Porter, Edward Albee, James Dickey,
Robert Penn Warren, and David Stacton.

Lowry receives grant

Dr. S. Todd Lowry, associate professor
of economics, has been awarded a research
fellowship for the 1971-72 academic year
by the American Council of Learned Socie-
ties.

The fellowship, one of the most pres-
tigious scholarly honors, will permit Lowry
to continue research into classical Greek
influences on modern economic thought.
Last year, he received a grant from the
American Philosophical Society support-
ing his research on the project.

A member of Washington and Lee’s
faculty since 1959, Lowry earned the B.A.
and LL.B. degrees from the University of
‘Texas, and the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from Louisiana State University.

In addition to his research into Greek
influences on contemporary economic
philosophies, Lowry maintains a continu-
ing research interest in the economics of
natural resources and the economics of
forests in particular, a field in which he
has written a number of scholarly articles.

Barrett writes book

Dr. Linton Lomas Barrett, professor of
romance languages at the University, is the
author of a newly published book on Cer-
vantes’ classic Don Quixote and co-trans-
lator, with his wife Marie McDavid Bar-
rett, of an important recent study of civili-
zation in the western hemisphere.

A Simplified Approach to Cervantes—
Don Quixote, published in February by
Barron’s, is designed as a supplemental
manual for the general reader and for the
undergraduate student. The book offers

14: CAMPUS

suggestions for acquiring insights into this
first modern novel, as well as a sketch of
Spanish fiction before Cervantes, a survey
of literary criticism of Cervantes, and a se-
lected bibliography.

In addition, Dr. Barrett and his wife
translated from the Portuguese The
Americas and Civilization, by Darcy Ribei-
ro, published early this year by E. P. Dut-
ton & Co. The 510-page book is an an-
thropological examination of the broad
outlines of European interpretations of
world history in the American perspective.

The New York Times terms the au-
thor’s challenge as “immense,” yet success-
fully met. Ribeiro, a Brazilian anthropolo-
gist, was jailed in 1964 after a coup in
Brazil, and in 1968 his book’s publication
was suspended and all copies destroyed.
He now teaches in exile in Chile.

Dr. Barrett, who retired in 1969 as
chairman of Washington and Lee’s ro-
mance languages department, is the au-
thor of Five Centuries of Spanish Litera-
ture: From El Cid to the Golden Age,
published in 1962, as well as other books
and a number of scholarly articles.

A Ph.D. graduate of the University of
North Carolina, he is a member of many
professional organizations and has served
as an Officer in several. He is a former edi-
tor of Hispania, and travels and lectures
extensively.

Mini-term abroad

One of the most educationally valu-
able of a whole array of new programs at
Washington and Lee began in April when
23 students and three professors left for
Europe in the institution’s first study
abroad program of its own.

The foreign study program itself is not
new, not even at Washington and Lee.
Other colleges have had them for years,
and through cooperative arrangements
Washington and Lee students have always
been able to take advantage of them.

But the way the University has de-
signed its own program has, in the eyes of
its participants, led to unique new oppor-
tunities, with a degree of individual flex-
ibility and comprehensiveness few other
programs can match.

To be sure, plenty of foreign-language
and European history majors are in France
or Germany or Spain. That isn’t unusual.
The basic idea behind study-abroad_ pro-
grams has always been to give students
first-hand experience with language, cul-
ture, and history.

But the Washington and Lee program
doesn’t stop there. In addition to students
from the fields one would expect, there are
majors in the sciences, in commerce, even
in American history and English in Eur-
ope. A few sophomore participants, in
fact, haven’t even decided on a major yet.

The idea is simple. There is more—
much more—than just language and cul-
ture that can be learned better on the
spot than in a textbook or lecture.

The participating students’ projects
are as imaginative as the program, and as
diverse as the students themselves. Where,
for instance, is the best place to research
the role of the French in America’s Civil
War? France, of course—and so a Wash-
ington and Lee junior majoring in U.S.
history, Charles C. Holbrook Jr. of Alex-
andria, is in Paris studying it.

And surely the ideal place to study the
life and works of the great German paint-
er and engraver Albrecht Durer is his city
of Nuremberg—especially since his 500th
birthday is being celebrated there this
spring. So students in the German section
of the study-abroad program will visit
there for five days, as one of their side trips
before returning to the United States.

If a student’s academic interests lie in

identifying and analyzing the influences
that acted upon foreign writers and dra-
matists, especially men whose works have
had major impact in America, there is
nothing that can take the place of a first-
hand inquiry. And so Washington and Lee
students will be ‘‘over there,” researching
the careers and works of literary giants
such as Samuel Beckett, Bertolt Brecht,
E.T.A. Hoffman, and Jean Anouilh.

There are two ways a student inter-
ested in international economics, to take
another example, might investigate socio-
economic differences between European
and Amercian families. He might sit in his
library and read, or he might undertake
original research himself. And no matter
how good a library is, it’s second-best, be-
hind personal, scholarly field study.

Other representative projects which
Washington and Lee students are under-
taking during their six-week mini-semester
in Europe include studies of music, histori-
cal life-styles, sociological patterns, and
research in chemistry, mathematics, and
other natural sciences.

(Ironically, the students in Spain to
study contemporary drama in Madrid may
run into one of their old teachers. Prof. L.
L. Kahn of Washington and Lee’s drama

 

; Set ane y ‘ es F oh ae iy
Hy iti a come tea er sedate
LUT he ee aan
i Lae

 

Construction on the expansion of Doremus Gymnasium was progressing rapidly when this
photograph was made in mid-April. Superintendent of Buildings and Grounds D. E. Brady
said work was only slightly behind schedule and that good weather would allow workmen
to make up the delay, caused this past winter by a number of snowfalls.

 

2?

department is on leave this year, in Ma-
drid—teaching in a Spanish university
about the American theater.)

A basic ability to speak and under-
stand the language, of course, is the pri-
mary requirement for participating in the
study-abroad program. Students had to ar-
range with an appropriate academic de-
partment to receive credit for their over-
seas work, too, since, after all, the pro-
gram is a part of the University’s curri-
culum, not a holiday.

Students—and the professors who will
be serving as their tutors and advisors in
Europe—also had to come up with the
whole cost of the term abroad.

But that is only the tip of the iceberg.
Making arrangements for the program
was an incredibly time-consuming, com-
plex, and even at times frustrating task,
according to Prof. David B. Dickens of the
University’s German department, chair-
man of the foreign study committee and
leader of the German group.

Together with his counterparts in
French and Spanish, Drs. G. Francis Drake
and S. J. Williams, he had to go to Europe
last summer to make living and teaching
arrangements. (Students and faculty are
living with individual German, French,
and Spanish families, giving the program
another educational advantage.)

Generally, students in the program
are taking regular classes while in Europe,
borrowing the facilities of major univer-
sities there. Their own projects will be re-
served for their free time, in the same way
individual projects are undertaken at
Washington and Lee.

At the end of their European stay, each
student will be required to submit a
thesis, reporting the results of his Euro-
pean research. Then he'll receive six
hours of class credit, the same amount
being earned by his colleagues who re-
main in Lexington.

Most of the participants will return
the first week of June. A number, how-
ever, will stay in Europe through the sum-
mer—still another advantage of the uni-
que Washington and Lee program. With
the short term coming at the end of the
academic year instead of in the middle as
it does at almost every other college, there
is nothing to keep them from remaining
to continue their work. Already, four or
five have said they plan to stay in Europe.

The French group are headquartered
in Paris, the Spanish in Madrid, and the
German in Bayreuth while they are in
Europe.

A young painter

After 13 years as a serious artist, Larry
Alexander has finally had his first one-man
exhibition. The unusual thing is not that
it took him so long; it’s that he got there
so soon. Alexander is only 18 years old.

He displayed 27 works, mostly land-
scapes and seascapes, in the Student Cen-
ter at the University last month.

The Norfolk native, a freshman at
W&L, first began studying at Lott Carey
Elementary School, and kept at it through
Jacox Junior High and Booker T. Wash-
ington High, from which he was graduated
last June.

He came to Washington and Lee not
just to study art—it was a professor of
English, Dr. H. Robert Huntley, who first
introduced him to the University, and he
is toying with the idea of majoring in his-
tory in addition to art—as a prelude to law
school.

But painting has always been one of
his primary activities. Besides his study in
Norfolk’s public schools, he put in two
years in the city’s Master Art classes, and
has exhibited his works in a number of
shows in the area.

Not just exhibited. Won prizes, too. He
has carried home awards from the Azalea
Art Festival, the Hermitage Foundation
Art Show, and the Hallmark Card contest,
Just to name a few.

This winter he was one of half a dozen
students in the United States whose work

 

Young artist Larry Alexander.

CAMPUS: 4

was chosen for display at an international
exhibition in Osaka, Japan.

It was at Jacox Junior High in Nor-
folk that Alexander met the woman who
was to become a turning point in his
young career—Mrs. C. J. Coppage, who
taught him there. She recognized his tal-
ent and drive, and strongly encouraged
him. He literally joined her family, and
today he points to Mrs. Coppage—and,
naturally, his girlfriend, Reba Chapman
of Newport News, a student at Madison
College—as “‘my greatest inspirations.”

He uses acrylics, watercolors, conte
crayon, inks, and charcoal primarily, and
he has refined his technique and style to
the point where his paintings sold at an
unprecedented pace for a one-man show.

He recognizes the Norfolk influence in
his work, and still paints scenes found
there, along with a few in the Lexington
area now that he finds himself at Wash-
ington and Lee most of the year.

He paints “spasmodically,” as he puts
it, “when the inspiration strikes.” He can
complete a watercolor in a half an hour or
so, but it might take six weeks or two
months to polish off a major work.

He enjoys Washington and Lee and
what it offers him, and takes pretty full
advantage of it. Besides painting, he plays
soccer, and he is currently a member of the
General’s track team.

Seven elected

Seven students have been elected to
membership in two prestigious honorary
societies in the School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Politics.

Newly named members of Beta Gamma
Sigma, the commerce and administration
fraternity, are James Robert Allen, a sen-
ior from Silver Spring, Md.; Edwin Staman
Ogilvie, a senior from Shreveport, La.; and
Seaborn Stacy Eastland, a senior from
Houston.

Elected to membership in Omicron
Delta Epsilon, the national honor society
to recognize outstanding performance by
economics majors, were David Brown Galt,
a senior from St. Louis; Robert Greer
Brookby, a junior from Bartlesville, Okla.;
Landon Bell Lane, Jr., a junior from Alta-
vista, Va.; and Steven Edward Lewis, a
junior from East Rockaway, N.Y.

Beta Gamma Sigma draws new mem-
bers from the top 10 per cent of senior
majors who also must maintain an overall
“B” average academically. The society was
founded in 1913, and Washington and

Io: CAMPUS

Lee’s chapter formed in 1933. Only col-
leges whose business schools are accredited
by the American Association of Collegiate
Schools of Business may have chapters of
Beta Gamma Sigma.

Membership in Omicron Delta Epsilon
is limited to majors with “B” averages, and
its chapter at Washington and Lee was
founded in 1963 by a merger of two hon-
orary economics societies.

Haughney wins fellowship

A Washington and Lee senior has been
named a Woodrow Wilson Fellow for
1971-72 and another has been designated a
finalist, the Woodrow Wilson National
Fellowship Foundation has announced.

Named a Fellow was Stephen R.
Haughney, a senior English major from
Cleveland. Haughney is a_ consistent
Honor Roll and Dean’s List student at
Washington and Lee. He was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa his junior year, an un-
usual honor, and is active in a wide range
of extracurricular activities at the Univer-
sity. .

Designated a finalist in the Woodrow
Wilson competition from Washington
and Lee was William C. Wilkinson, a sen-
ior majoring in psychology.

Also an Honor Roll and Dean’s List
student, Wilkinson is co-captain of the
Generals’ cross-country team and is cur-
rently a participant in the Robert E. Lee
Research program.

As a Wilson Fellow, Haughney will re-
ceive a fellowship for a year’s graduate
study at any university of his choice next
year. Only 300 Fellows were named in the
United States this year, 20 from the Mid-
dle Atlantic region in which Washington

and Lee is located (Virginia, Delaware,

Maryland, North Carolina, West Virginia,
and the District of Columbia).

New development aide

Robert C. Liggitt, a New Jersey and
Pennsylvania business executive for 25
years, has been named associate director
of development in charge of deferred giv-
ing at Washington and Lee. ,

Liggitt’s primary responsibility will be
to provide “a completely rounded, profes-
sional philanthropic counselling service,”
according to Director of Development
Farris P. Hotchkiss, who announced Lig-
gitt’s appointment.

A 1942 graduate of Grove City Col-
lege, where he earned the bachelor of sci-

 

Mrs. Duvall

Mrs. Mary Elizabeth Smith Du-
vall, wife of Dr. Severn P. C. Duvall,
head of the Washington and Lee
English department, died April 15
in Poland. Mrs. Duvall was in Eas-
tern Europe with her husband, who
is on leave this spring under a
humanities research grant program
sponsored by the Ford Foundation.
Besides her husband, she is survived
by two sons and a daughter, Ridgely
H. Duvall, a freshman at W&L,
Severn P. C. Duvall, III, and Mary
Duvall. A memorial
being planned.

Service was

 

 

 

ence degree in commerce, Liggitt has been
engaged in business management primarily
with Sears, Roebuck & Co.

He took graduate work in marketing at
the University of Pittsburgh and has
taught at Pennsylvania State University.
He has been active in civic, charitable,
and church affairs in New Jersey and
Pennsylvania, and in World War II he
served as a naval aviator.

Deferred giving includes design of
wills, estate bequests, “pooled income
funds” (a mutual fund), charitable remain-
der trusts, in which funds are managed in
the donor’s interest without charge during
his lifetime and which revert to the Uni-
versity, and charitable gift annuities,
which provide a fixed percentage income
in exchange for principal.

Every such arrangement provides im-
mediate, unique tax benefits which cannot
be obtained through personal investment
apart from the involvement of a univer-
sity or similar institution, Hotchkiss said.

Because of the highly technical and
complex nature of philanthropy tax laws
and the narrow field of their application,
such counselling services are widely un-
available, Hotchkiss added.

Schatz best oralist

Robert B. B. Schatz, a second-year law
student at Washington and Lee, was nam-
ed best oralist in regional finals of the
Philip C. Jessup International Law Moot
Court Competition held in March.

Judges chose Schatz over other legal de-
baters from West Virginia, North Caro-
lina, Kentucky, Tennessee, Indiana, Ilino-
is, and the District of Columbia.

The international law moot court com-
petition was held at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill. This was
the first year a team from Washington and
Lee’s law school participated.

Schatz is a 1969 graduate of the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin, where he received his
bachelor of arts degree magna cum laude,
with majors in English and art history. He
won honors for his undergraduate thesis in
English, was named a Woodrow Wilson
fellowship finalist, and received a number
of other awards and honors at Wisconsin.

At Washington and Lee, he is a mem-
ber of Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity, the
Student Bar Association, the campus
Young Republicans organization, and the
student body’s committee on recruitment
of underprivileged students. He is from
Overbrook, Pa.

The team was sponsored by the new
International Law Society at Washington
and Lee, which plans to enter the national
competition each year.

Up from the dead

The Southern Conservative, a political
opinion magazine published during the
1960’s, has been resurrected by two Wash-
ington and Lee students.

Supported by private donations, the
Conservative will appear every other
month for the remainder of the current
academic year, according to William H.
Miller, III, its editor.

The new periodical is a joint project
of Miller, a leader of the campus chapter
of Young Americans for Freedom, and
Greg C. Raetz of the Conservative Society
at the Univerility.

In a statement of editorial purpose,
they said the| magazine is designed “to
provide a reasoned, literate, and sophis-
ticated alternative to the ‘counter-cul-
ture.’ ”’

Its first issue will contain articles, es-
says, and editorials written by students
and faculty from several Virginia colleges,
including Washington and Lee, the Uni-
versity of Virginia, and Lynchburg Col-
lege.

According to Miller, crucial support
for the Southern Conservative has come
from Rep. Philip Crane (R-IIl.), a prom-
inent House conservative who visited
Washington and Lee this past winter.

The magazine will be distributed free
on various campuses in the South, and it
is being sent to libraries, congressmen,
and opinion makers throughout the East.

Generals put it together
behind a verbal subterfuge

When it comes to summing up the
Generals’ 1970-71 basketball season, you
have to fall back on the old cliche of team
effort.

In almost every game, it was a different
individual or individuals who came
through in the clutch with the key basket
or rebound. In several close games that
weren’t decided until the last seconds,
Washington and Lee head coach Verne
Canfield used as many as 11 men.

“We have seven or eight players, all of
about equal ability, who will play a lot,”
Canfield said before the season started.
“We plan to use many different combina-
tions, and we’ll substitute liberally.”

The prognostication proved very ac-
curate. During games, Canfield often call-
ed on his bench, sending in a player with
a specific job: to shoot from outside, or
to stop an opposing player who was hav-
ing a hot hand or controlling the re-
bounds.

The statistics reflected that balance.
Only one player—team captain Mike Dan-
iel—scored in double figures (19.1 average).
‘There were six others who scored more
than 100 points for the season, and two
more who were just a shade under 100.

The result was a very satisfying 17-8
record, and another College Athletic Con-
ference championship, the Generals’
fourth in the last five years.

Oh, sure, there were disappointments.
The Generals got bombed more than once
when they went up against some top-rank-
ed teams, such as Old Dominion, King,
Fairleigh-Dickinson, and Virginia. And an
improved Navy team finally got its revenge
for a pair of losses to W&L in the previous
two seasons.

But there were several surprises for
W&L opponents as well. The Generals
finally got the Randolph-Macon monkey
off their back with a 53-46 victory in the
season opener, something the Generals
had not accomplished since 1960. Especi-
ally satisfying was an 85-71 win over South-
western at Memphis for the CAC tourna-
ment championship.

W&L and Southwestern now have tan-
gled four times in the championship finals,
and, although W&L has won three of them,
the lone defeat on Southwestern’s home
court in 1969 still stuck in W&L’s craw.

That loss knocked the Generals out of an
NCAA post-season bid.

Canfield was extremely pleased with
the team and the season results. “I said
at the beginning of the year we would have
a winning season, but I must confess I
didn’t really expect these boys to win 17
games.”

The Generals were young (seven sopho-
mores, a freshman, and four juniors made
up the squad) and relatively inexperienced
at the beginning of the year. Only Daniel
and junior guard Ellie Gutshall had much
experience as varsity regulars. The other
two juniors—John Glace and Dave Stone—
had spent most of their time the past two
years on the bench while superstars Mike
Neer and Mel Cartwright were holding
forth.

That was part of the job Canfield had
facing him: to replace those two plus two
other regulars who graduated—Stu Fauber
and Norwood Morrison. Although the
sports writers employed the “rebuilding”
cliche to describe the 1971 Generals, Can-
field preferred a verbal subterfuge: “We
are regrouping for a new era,” he said.
‘We are not rebuilding. I don’t even like
that word because right away it sounds

ATHLETICS 297

like an excuse for losing. We don’t expect
to lose.”

And the Generals proved Canfield is
not only a good coach but a good sooth-
sayer. [he 17-8 record continued the string
of winning seasons begun in 1967. Since
then the Generals have gone 20-5, 19-6,
18-5, 17-8, and 17-8.

‘There were several other milestones
during the year. Daniel reached one, his
1,000th career point. Only six other play-
ers in W&L’s long basketball history have
reached that plateau, headed of course by
the indominable Dom Flora (1954-58) with
2,310. Others are Jay Handlan (1948-52)
2,002; Mel Cartwright (1966-70) 1,800;
Lee Marshall (1954-57) 1,561; Mike Neer
(1967-70) 1,289; and Jim Rich (1951-54
1,005.

Daniel, who has 1,034 and another full
season to go, should easily pass Neer and
could top Marshall on the all-time list.
Those two, plus Rich, played only three
years on the W&L varsity, while the others
all achieved their marks in four.

Another milestone was Canfield’s 100th
victory. During his seven years at W&L,
he has coached 103 basketball victories
against 64 defeats, a percentage of almost
62 per cent.

The leading individuals who “put it all
together” as a team included:

Daniel, the team captain from Cin-
cinnati, who had a great year, averaging

 

Junior Mike Daniel was the Generals’ only “big” star.

183 ATHLETICS

19.1 points a game, including a career
high 32 against Old Dominion. He was
named to two all-tournament teams and
was chosen the Most Valuable Player in
the conference tournament.

He capped off his outstanding year
with a great performance in the confer-
ence tournament. He scored 46 points in
the two games, hauled down 25 rebounds,
and hit 20 of 28 from the floor for a new
tournament record in field goal accuracy.

Ellie Gutshall, junior guard, who was
valuable as an experienced backcourt per-
former and team quarterback. His best
game came on his “hometown” floor in
Elkins, W.Va. against Davis & Elkins.

John Glace, a junior who has had to
be content riding the bench for two years,
played regularly. The season highlight for
the native of Carlisle, Pa. was his 21 points
against Bridgewater.

Dave Stone, letterman junior from Co-
lumbus, Ohio who was injured at the be-
ginning of the year but recovered and
scored 20 points in his first game as a
starter. ,

Paul McClure, the only real big man
on the squad. The 6-8 sophomore was the
second leading scorer and was an effective
rebounder for most of the season. And
then came the conference tournament
when “Tall Paul’ went wild against South-
western, some of whose players he knew
from his high school days in Memphis. In
the championship game, McClure was
everywhere, popping in 27 points, hitting
long jumpers, blocking shots, grabbing 10
rebounds, and even stealing the ball and
leading fast breaks. His performance earn-
ed him a spot on the all-tourney team.

Doug Clelan, a sophomore guard from
Harrisburg, Pa., won several games with
clutch play in the closing minutes. An-
other sophomore guard, Hatton Smith of
Birmingham, Ala., gave the team an out-
side threat with his long jump shots.

Sophomore center Bruce King of Beach
Haven, N.J. played erratically, but helped
win some key games. For instance, he pull-
ed down 17 rebounds, a season high for
the team, to help beat Hampden-Sydney.

Freshman Skip Lichtfuss from Balti-
more showed vast improvement by sea-
son’s end. He displayed quickness seldom
seen by a W&L player, and was responsbile
for defeating UNC-Wilmington almost
single-handedly in overtime.

Sophomore John Dumas of Birming-
ham could be counted on to come off the
bench to spell the other big men and pull

down his share of rebounds. Sophomore
guard Charlie Strain of New York City and
sophomore forward Sam Englehart of
Baltimore were reserves who saw only
limited action.

At the end of the year, Canfield per-
mitted himself a little boasting: “I wonder
what they think of the new era Generals
now,” he mused.

With no seniors to graduate and a
talented group of freshmen coming up
(coach Tom Davies’ jayvee squad posted
an 8-6 record), the outlook for the W&L
basketball Generals continues to be rosy.

JOHN HUGHES
Sports Information Director

WeL Opp.
53—Randolph-Macon |... 46
TE EMO WAEEL ic epeeic ns divine bee bewea ga hyn cate 63
BO— Old DOMINION ooo... iec eee e sone ecteisg nen 84
73—Lynchburg ....... SR a aces hues, 71
79—Hampden-Sydney ............ ee 83
OO -Bimory & Henry ot aye es 58
0 TN CC nas ae aca 54
ae ote ee 57
SN a 76
74-80) Pats (VA ce a et ee 68
BO ey gai ok ee ey i

Fe POMS TI ODRIIS noi ieee de cn canan sh!
6G-— Davis S EUROS ooo cece ni gngevs etour bee
64—Pembroke State oo...
Fe VPI eles eae i seaiheh agents cjatinn aa
78—Hampden-Sydney ..........0..0..0e.
67—Famory & Penny oe eto:
74—LynCh pure We
63—Baltimore Loyola ....)...0.0..00ce.
73—Bridgewater
Ot DICKS, gk Mae ete in
47—Fairleigh-Dickinson

86—UNC-Wilmington (OT) .......00000... 84
82—Washington U. (Mo.)** ow. 72
85—Southwestern (Tenn.)** oo... 71

*Suncoast Classic tournament
**CAC Tournament

Generation gap

Reviving what used to be an annual
affair, Washington and Lee head football
coach Buck Leslie showed off his 1971
Generals in late February and came away
a happy man as a squad of some 70 var-
sity players defeated a group of alumni
performers, 33-20, in a muddy varsity-
alumni game that concluded two weeks of
spring practice.

Taking advantage of short alumni
punts, the Generals’ varsity struck for
three first-half touchdowns on drives of

 

46, 28, and 55 yards, and got another when
linebacker Lane Nalley fell on a blocked
punt that was deflected into the alumni
end zone to go ahead 26-0 before the old-
timers could catch their breath.

So aggressive was the varsity defense
that the alumni could do no better than
minus 14 yards rushing and 57 yards pass-
ing during the first half. Finally, late in
the second quarter, the grads got on the
board when quarterback Jack Baizley hit
flanker Bruce Green on a nine-yard scor-
ing pass to reduce the varsity’s margin to
26-6 at the half.

The varsity scored once more in the
second half, and the alumni added two
touchdowns to complete the day’s scoring.
In all, the varsity gained 114 yards rush-
ing and was six for 14 passing for 77 yards,
while the alumni rushed for only 15 yards
and completed 11 of 35 passes for 120
yards.

The alumni made their best effort in
the third and fourth quarters when Leslie
was substituting freely. He said later he
wanted to get a good look at all his per-
sonnel, and maybe that’s why the alumni
moved the way they did. Leslie said he was
pleased with the game, and he said it was
a good way to finish two weeks of practice.

The varsity-alumni game was discon-
tinued several years ago, but Leslie renew-
ed it this February when a number of
former players reorganized it and assembl-
ed a squad that assured a competitive
game. Afterwards, Leslie said he hoped it
would be continued in the future.

SCORING
VASE oe a ee ee 13 13 7 0-33
PRTG coos. ak wt eivaginneeee 0 6 6 8—20

Varsity—Conrad 13 pass from Fluharty
(Chase kick).

Varsity—Farrar 1 run (kick failed).

Varsity—Fluharty 23 run (Chase kick).

Varsity—Nalley recovers blocked punt in
end zone (kick failed).

Alumni—Green 9 pass from Baizley (run
failed).

Varsity—Wallace 24 pass from Van Am-
burgh (Chase kick).

Alumni—Gossmann | run (run failed).

Alumni—Baizley 3 run (Baizley run).

Four-time A-A

For the third year in a row, Washing-
ton and Lee swimmer Billy Brumback has
won recognition as an All-America free-
styler, and this year he made it twice—in
the 50- and 100-yard events.

Brumback earned the honors at the
NCAA college division national finals held
at Springfield College in Massachusetts in
March. To be awarded All-America rank-
ing, a swimmer must place among the top
12 finishers in his event.

A senior from Baltimore, Brumback
placed 11th in the 50-yard freestyle, his
specialty, with a time of :22.4, and finished
12th in the 100-yard freestyle, covering the
distance in :49.4. He was sixth-tenths of a
second behind the winning 50 time and
trailed the 100 winner by one and four-
tenths seconds.

Brumback, who won All-America status
as a sophomore and junior in the 50-yard
freestyle, has posted a career of outstand-
ing athletic accomplishments. Not only has
he won state, conference, and national
swimming honors, but he is also one of the
best lacrosse defensemen in the country.
Last year, he was a first team Little All-
America selection to go along with his
position on the All South Atlantic Divi-
sion team.

Winter finish

With the completion of Washington
and Lee’s winter intercollegiate athletic
program, the Generals were in fairly good
shape to make a run for the College Ath-
letic Conference overall title won by
Washington University last spring after
two years of W&L domination.

The Generals’ basketball team, after
posting a 15-7 regular season record, won
the CAC championship (see story above)
with victories over Washington U. and
Southwestern of Memphis, and joined
W&L’s swimming team as league titlists.
And with the unexpected good showing of
the Generals’ wrestling team, W&L, with
90 points, has climbed to second place in
the overall standings, just five points be-
hind Washington University.

Going into the winter program, the
Generals were in fourth place after a tie
for fourth in football and a third-place
finish in cross-country. But then W&L
got 25 points for its basketball champion-
ship, another 25 from its swimmers (who
won their third CAC title in five years),
and 171% from a second-place tie (with
Washington) in wrestling to account for
the dramatic jump in the overall stand-
ings.

Head coach Bill Stearns’ swimmers had
little trouble in outdistancing runner-up
Sewanee, as the Generals won eight events
and picked up a number of points for

ATHLETICS: 1¢

 

Freestyler Billy Brumback—All-America for the fourth time.

many second- and third-place finishes. Sen-
ior freestyler Billy Brumback, winning two
events and anchoring three winning relay
teams, was named the meet’s outstanding
swimmer, along with Sewanee’s Law
Wilson.

The surprise of the winter was pro-
duced by W&L’s wrestling team, which
came on strong at the end of the season
after a dismal start. Winning only one of
nine meets, W&L seemed headed for the
dregs when Roy Skinner took over as coach.
He promptly won two and tied another
in the final four meets. Skinner, who is at
the University this spring as a visiting
physical education lecturer (on leave from
Duke, where he coaches lacrosse), appar-
ently fired up the Generals enough to last
them through the conference champion-
ship, where senior Dee Copenhaver (177),
freshman Jim Steiff (150), and freshman
Bill Belton (134) won individual titles.
Sewanee won the championship for the
fourth straight year.

College Athletic Conference competi-
tion remains in baseball, golf, tennis, and
track and field, all of which will be in-

cluded in the league’s annual spring sports
festival which will be held May 7-8 at
Washington University in St. Louis.

Top athletes

Fifteen Washington and Lee athletes
have been chosen to appear in the 1971
edition of Outstanding College Athletes of
America.

Included are six team captains: Mike
Daniel, basketball; Bill Brumback, swim-
ming; Ray Coates, baseball; Scott Neese
and Whit Morrill, lacrosse; and Bill Gat-
lin, tennis.

Others include seniors Steve Han-
non, football, and Ken Newman, soccer;
juniors John Lawlor and Bim Clark,
swimming, and Bob LaRue and Bill Mil-
ler, baseball; sophomores Sam Englehart,
lacrosse, and Alan Corwith, swimming;
and freshman Steve Erickson, swimming.

The selections, announced by the board
of advisors of the publication, were based
not only on the students’ athletic achieve-
ments, but also on their character, leader-
ship, and scholarship.

20: ALUMNI

Craddock presented citation
by Lynchburg alumni chapter

The Lynchburg Alumni Chapter pre-
sented its Lynchburg Citation this year to
Dr. George B. Craddock, ’30, a Lynchburg
physician, in recognition of his long serv-
ice to Washington and Lee University and
to his fellow men.

The presentation was made at the
chapter’s annual banquet on February 27
at the James River Club. The text of the
citation read:

“The Lynchburg Citation is presented
to George Barksdale Craddock, M. D., by
the Lynchburg, Virginia, Chapter, Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Association, in af-
fectionate affirmation of its admiration for
the quality and endurance of his interest
in the destiny of his alma mater, whose
stature throughout his community and
Commonwealth he has enhanced by a
perfect admixture of skill and compassion
in serving his fellow man as a practitioner
of the quiet miracles of healing.”

The Lynchburg Citation is the only
honor of its kind awarded annually by a
Washington and Lee alumni chapter. It
was established about 10 years ago to ac-
knowledge distinctive and useful service to

 

Washington and Lee. It may be presented
to an administrative official, a faculty
member, a student, or someone outside
the W&L community who has made some
notable contribution to the University’s
advancement and reputation.

Dr. Craddock is a Lee Associate and a
former member of the Alumni Board of
Directors. In 1961, he was tapped for mem-
bership in the Washington and Lee Chap-
ter of Omicron Delta Kappa, national
leadership fraternity. A graduate of Jeffer-
son Medical College, he has been a leading
physician in Lynchburg for many years.
He was appointed to the Virginia Board
of Medical Examiners in 1963 by Gov.
Albertis S. Harrison, Jr., and was recently
reappointed by Gov. Linwood Holton.

The Lynchburg Citation went last year
to the late Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, author
of General Lee’s College, a history of
Washington and Lee. Other recipients
have been the late James R. Caskie, a
trustee; Dean Emeritus Frank J. Gilliam;
the late Earl S. Mattingly, treasurer; Dr.
James G. Leyburn, professor of sociology;
Edwin P. ‘T'wombly, former director of ath-

Dr. George B. Craddock, center, with Mrs. Craddock, receives Lynchburg Citation
from chapter president John R. Alford.

letics; Lewis F. Powell, a trustee and for-
mer president of the American Bar As-
sociation; and Dr. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.,
president of the University of Virginia.

Staman Ogilvie, a Washington and Lee
senior from Shreveport, La., spoke at the
banquet on “A Student’s View of Washing-
ton and Lee.”

The citation was presented to Dr. Crad-
dock by John R. Alford, 59, who was elect-
ed president of the chapter. Other officers
named were Robert C. Wood, III, 62, vice
president, and Henry M. Sackett, III, 64,
secretary-treasurer.

KANSAS CITY

Alumni of the Kansas City area attend-
ed a cocktail party given by W. N. Leedy,
'49, president of the chapter, at the Kansas
City Country Club on February 23. W. C.
“Bill” Washburn, national alumni secre-
tary, was on hand, gave a brief report on
the campus and presented color slides.
Several parents of current students were
present.

TULSA

Alumni from Oklahoma City and Tul-
sa areas joined for a meeting, cocktails,
and dinner on February 24 at the Sum-
mit Club in Tulsa, Okla. The arrange-
ments were made by J. Barry Epperson,
60, president of the chapter. Representa-
tives from Memorial High School, Holland
Hall School, and Edison High School were
guests. Also attending were several pro-
spective students, two of whom were from
Oklahoma City. Bill Washburn, ’40, na-
tional alumni secretary, attended the meet-
ing and, after a brief report on the Uni-
versity, presented color slides.

SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA

The Saddleback Inn of Norwalk, Calif.
was the setting of a stag dinner for alumni
of the Southern California area on Febru-
ary 25. Cocktails preceded a banquet.
Frank A. McCormick, ’53, president of the
chapter, presided at the meeting and in-
troduced W. C, “Bill” Washburn, a special
guest from the University. Plans were dis-
cussed for more aggressive student recruit-
ment in the area. A special welcome was
extended to a number of alumni who had
driven up from San Diego for the occasion.

NORTHERN CALIFORNIA

John Williamson, II, ’53, the outgoing
president, welcomed members at a meet-
ing of the Northern California chapter on
February 26, at the Olympic Club in San
Francisco. W. C. “Bill” Washburn brought
the members up-to-date on the University
and showed recent color slides of the
campus. During a short business meeting
which took place, Paul R. Speckman, Jr.,
57, was named president; Jerry South, ’54,
vice-president; and John Farmer, ’61, secre-
tary-treasurer. Speckman, in adjourning
the meeting, paid tribute to John William-
son for his excellent leadership in organiz-
ing and maintaining the chapter over the
past several years.

ATLANTA

A stag cocktail party for alumni of
Atlanta was held March 10 at the Atlanta
Cultural Center. Special guests from the
University were William D. “Bill” Mc-
Henry, ’54, the newly named athletic di-
rector at Washington and Lee, and Bill
Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary. Presi-
dent R. William Ide, III, ’62, made the ar-
rangements and introduced McHenry, who
expressed pleasure at becoming the new
athletic director at Washington and Lee
and asked the alumni to assist him in the
recruitment of athletes from the Atlanta
area.

ALUMNI: 21

 

 

 

Left to right, State Sen. William T. W. Brotherton, Jr., ’47, Joseph R. Blackburn, ’4o,
President Huntley, and Judge Thornton G. Berry Jr., ’34, at Charleston, W.Va. meeting.

CHARLESTON, W.VA.

State Sen. William T. W. Brotherton,
Jr., °47, chapter president, arranged a
meeting of Charleston alumni on March
25 at the Berry Hills Country Club.
Special guests were President and Mrs.
Robert E. R. Huntley and Mr. and Mrs.
W. C. Washburn. Cocktails preceded a

dinner at which President Huntley gave a
brief report on the University. During a
brief business session, the following new
officers were elected: Louie A. Paterno, Ft
65, president; J. Holmes Morrison, ’63,
vice-president; and Fred H. Belden, Jr.,
60, secretary-treasurer. These officers will
serve during the coming year.

 

Chapter correspondents

Appalachian—A. C. Smeltzer, ’29, 127 West
Main Street, Abingdon, Virginia 24210
Arkansas—Richard C. Butler, III, ’59, 36 River
Ridge Rd., Little Rock, Ark. 72207
Atlanta—R. William Ide, III, ’62, 3126 Roberta
Drive, N. W., Atlanta, Georgia 30327
Augusta-Rockingham—Robert L. Rhea, ’58,
619 Fraser Lane, Staunton, Va. 24401
Baltimore—Thomas J. Kenny, ’54, Rt. 7.
cae ne Avenue, Pikesville, Maryland
Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr., ’63, 15
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213
Charleston, West Virginia—Louie A. Paterno,
Jr., '65, 12 Hilltop Court, Charleston, West
Virginia 25314
Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, ’52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, North Carolina 28207
Chattanooga— Wesley G. Brown, ’51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, IIl. 60187
Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer, ’63, c/o The W.
F. Ryan Corp., 3940 Euclid Ave., Cleveland.
aan a
umberiand Valley—O. Thomas Kaylor, Jr..
45, 940 The Terrace, Hagerstown, Ma. 21740
Danville—F. Nelson Light, ’52, Route No. 2.
Box 695, Chatham, Va. 24531
Florida West Coast—Robert BE. Steele, III, ’41,
doen Ninth Ave., South, St. Petersburg, Fla.

iene _Alan_ Cross, Jr., ’51, 9700

= J _ wa

Florida BRIEe rive, Cutler Ridge, Miami,
ouston—Fred B. Griffin, ’60, 400 hat
Houston, Texas 77027 Teena

Jacksonville—John G. McGiffin, III, ’63, 4114
McGirts Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32201

Kansas City—W. H. Leedy, ’49, 814 Westover
Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113

Louisville—A. R. Boden, Jr., ’52, 3913 Druid
Hill Road, Louisville, Ky, 40207

Lynchburg—James D. Taylor, ’41, P.O. Box
97, Lynchburg, Va. 24505

Mid-South—Donald A. Malmo, ’50, 395 South
Yates Road, Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Mobile—G. Sage Lyons, ’58, Lyons, Pipes &
Cook, 517 First National Bank Bldg.,
Mobile, Ala. 36602

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., ’50, 213
Cleveland Ave., Slidell, La. 70458

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ’16,
Box 126, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York—Matthews A. Griffith, ’40, 2 West
16th Street, New York, New York 10011

Norfolk—Frank H. Callahan, Jr., ’52, 1401
Brunswick Ave., Norfolk, Va. 23508

North Texas—Richard D. Haynes, ’58, 2921
LTV Tower, Dallas, Texas 75201

Northern California—Paul R. Speckman, Jr.
"57, 1296 Blaney Ave., San Jose, Calif. 95129

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., 63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Ft. Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-

stein, '53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood,
Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling,
Dowling, Sanders and Dukes, Beaufort,
S. C. 29902

Peninsula—Frank S. Beazlie, Jr., ’40, 1205

Mallicotte Lane, Newport News, Va. 33606
Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’63, 3985 Pied-
mont Rd., Pensacola Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Arthur Blank, II, ’60, Reynolds

Co., 1700 Market St., Philadelphia., Pa. 19103

Piedmont—Walter L. Hannah, ’50, 5100 Lau-
vinda Dr., Greensboro, N.C. 27410

Pittsburgh—John E, Perry, ’38, 1330 Terrace
Drive, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15228

Richmond—Joseph M. Spivey, ’62, 4207 Brom-
ley Lane, Richmond, Va, 23221

Roanoke—William J, Lemon, ’57, 2201 Grandin
Road, S. W., Roanoke, Va. 24015

Rockbridge—Robert W. H. Mish, Jr., ’46,
15 West Washington Street, Lexington, Va.
24450

San Antonio Texas—Brentano C. Harnisch, ’39,
231 Burr Road, San Antonio, Texas 78

St. Louis—Bruce E. Bussen, ’56, 5000 Bussen
Road, St, Louis, Mo. 63129

60, P. O. Box

Savannah River—Tudor Hall,
116, Beech Isiand, S.C. 29842

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin T. Fleish-
man, ’41, P. O. Drawer 1049, Anderson, S. C.
29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
53, 2026 North Olive, Santa Ana., Calif. 92706

Southern Ohio—Stanley A. Hooker, Jr., ‘39,
1185 Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio
45226

Tulsa—J, Barry Epperson,

"60, 2440 E. 45th

St., Tulsa, Oklahoma 74105

“epee Potomac—Albert D. Darby, Jr., ’43, 507

umberland St., Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—Edson B. Olds, ’61, 808 Fordham
St., Rockville, Md. 20850

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, McMahon.
Smart, Sprain, Wilson & Camp, P.O. Box
1440. Abilene, Texas 79604

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Wilmington, Del. 19807

2a: CLASS NOES

 

 

 

‘THE

WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, 14.
Price: $39.00 f.o.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
The normal shipping interval is

five to six weeks after the receipt of
the order.

 

 

 

Class notes
1919

E. HowArp McCALes has taken office as
chief justice of the Louisiana Supreme Court.

1920

After a banking career of 49 years, HAROLD
G. ROBERTSON retired in January as chairman
of the board of Colonial American Nationa!
Bank in Roanoke, Va. Robertson started his

career with the Liberty Trust Bank in 1922,
and, upon merger with Colonial American in
1946, was named president of the new bank.
He became chairman cf the board in 1953.

1923

Jupce I. H. STREEPER, III recently was honor-
ed by the Alton-Wood River (Illinois) Bar As-
sociation. Streeper joined the Illinois Bar in
1923 and served as Madison County state at-
torney until 1932. He was a member of the
state legislature from 1933 to 1940, and he
was Illinois assistant general from 1940 to
1948. He was appointed to the circuit court in

1952.

[924

CHARLES McD. HARRELL, who retired in 1968
from management of the Bluefield (W.Va.)
Hardware Co., is now serving as chairman of
the board. In August, 1969, he was elected vice
president of Bluefield College.

1925

After 38 years in medicine, Dr. JAMEs G.
SMITH retired in 1967. He subsequently was
elected superintendent of schools for Hardee
County, Fla., a positior he still holds.

ANDREW T. Roy is a Presbyterian missionary
and vice president for public relations of
Chung Chi College of the Chinese University
in Hong Kong. He also edits the Chung Chi
Journal, the college bulletin, and he is chair-
man of the General Education Committee.

1926

In his 45th year of teaching, Professor HARRIS
C. Moore is teaching the third generation of
his own family. He has been a professor of
biology at El Camino College near Los An-
geles for the past 20 years.

JAck G. CHAPMAN has retired as director of
administration at Woodberry Forest School,
and he is currently teaching two English
classes at Isle of Wight Academy in Smith-
field, Va. He was headmaster at the Academy
in 1969-70.

1927

JoserpH L. LANIER, who has been with the
West Point Manufacturing co. since 1928,
has retired as chairman and chief executive
officer of West Point-Pepperell, a position
he has held since the merger of West Point
Manufacturing Co. with Pepperell Manufac-
turing Co. in 1965. Lanier, a trustee of Wash-
ington and Lee University, became president
of West Point Manufacturing Co. in 1951,
the third generation and fifth member of his
family to head the company. He is a member
of the Business Council in Washington, D.C.,
the Visiting Committee of Harvard Business
School, the West Point Rotary Club, and the
Capital City Club of Atlanta. Lanier is also
a director of the First National Bank in At-
lanta, the Atlanta & West Point Railroad
Co., the Western Railway of Alabama, and
the Liberty National Life Insurance Co. He
also serves as a trustee of the Institute of Tex-
tile Technology in Charlottesville, Va., La-
Grange College, and the National Safety
Council.

 

JosepH L. LANIER, ’27

Gossetr W. McRae has retired as president
of International Ship Brokers, Inc., and he
now lives in Mobile, Ala.

E929

Dr. Irwin T. SANDERS is chairman of the de-
partment of sociology at Boston University.
He is co-author of a book published by Mc-
Graw-Hill, entitled Bridges to Understanding:
International Programs at U.S. Colleges and
Universities.

After 34 years with International Harvester
Co., GARNET W. GREER has retired and lives
in Wilmington, Del.

For the fourth consecutive year, HArry E.
GopwIin is producing the Memphis Jazz and
Blues Festival in connection with that city’s
Cotton Carnival.

Retired Navy rear admiral RoBert D. POWERS,
Jr. has been appointed associate judge of the
Municipal Court and the Juvenile and Do-
mestic Relations Court of Portsmouth, Va.

WILLIAM FLEMING CHANDLER is president of
the coatings division and vice president and
director of Porter Paint Co. in Louisville, Ky.

193]

Dr. BorrouGHS REID HILL, senior researcher
in the division of neurosciences, has retired
after 17 years at the City of Hope, a free, non-
sectarian pilot medical center in Durante,
Calif., which specializes in research and
treatment of catastrophic disease. His major
contribution was the discovery of a new en-
zyme in human blood serum, called lactic de-
hydrogenase (LDH).

Joun H. HArpwick, chairman of the board of
the Louisville Trust Co., has been elected
1969-70 Man-of-the-Year by the Advertising
Club of Louisville and the Better Business
Bureau of Greater Louisville, Inc. The award
is presented in recognition of community

ay ee

nee SS

       
 

nee S laos

 

C. WILLIAM KARRAKER, JR., ’38

leadership. Hardwick, who joined the Louis-
ville Trust Co. in 1934, is one of the original
organizers of the Louisville Development
Fund, and he is the chairman of the Major
Fund Solicitation Committee. He is a leader
in Louisville’s new Riverfront Development
project and in 1967 was president of the
Louisville-area Chamber of Commerce.

1932

M. WILLIAM ADELSON has been appointed
chairman of the Friendship International
Airport Authority by the mayor of the city
of Baltimore. The new agency is a revenue
authority, created to lease the airport from
Baltimore and to issue revenue bonds for
extensive improvements. Adelson is an at-
torney in the city.

Rev. WILLIAM L. WoopaALt is pastor of the
Leetonia (Ohio) Presbyterian Church. He is
also an author of children’s stories and articles
and is a member of the Leetonia Village

Council.
1934

PATRICK MITCHELL has been the principal of
Garfield Elementary School in Portsmouth,
Ohio for the past 20 years. He is now serving
on the executive board of the Ohio Depart-
ment of Elementary Principals.

1935

WILLIAM SCHUHLE is a free-lance cartoonist
and portraitist. One of his cartoons received
first place for editorial cartoons in the Mary-
land-Delaware-D.C. Press Association’s 1970
better newspaper contest.

In the general practice of medicine in Arling-
ton, Va. for the past 20 years, Dr. SIDNEY
LYONs is retiring as president of the Northern
Virginia Academy of General Practice.

1936

EpwarpD A. TuRVILLE, an attorney from St.
Petersburg, Fla., has been reappointed non-

 

MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41

playing captain of the U.S. Davis Cup team.
Last summer, Turville’s squad successfully
defended the Cup against West Germany in
matches held in Cleveland.

1937

FREDERICK A. MARSTELLER has been named
vice president of the National Association
of Real Estate Boards.

1938

Dr. T. HArT BAKER is medical director of the
Southern California Permanente Medical
Group in Los Angeles. He has been a member
for 19 years.

C. WILLIAM KARRAKER, JR., a veteran pilot
for Pan American Airways, who commands
a Boeing 747, is also an attorney and spends
much of his non-flying time doing arbitration
work in labor relations.

Lo59

Tampa businessman CHARLES P. LYLEs will
serve as chairman of the University of Florida
Alumni Association’s 1971 Annual Giving
Program. Lykes is director of the Florida
state Chamber of Commerce, the Florida
National Bank of Tampa, the Tampa Electric
Co., the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad Co.,
and the Florida State Fair Association. He
also serves as a member of the Florida Coun-
cil of 100, the Agribusiness Institute of Flori-
da, and the Florida Cattlemen’s Association.
Although he never attended the University of
Florida, Lykes, through his interest in busi-
ness, industry, and agriculture, said he was
constantly aware of the great strides this
institution (the University of Florida) has
made and is making.”

Dr. JAMES L. A. WesB is chairman of the
chemistry department at Goucher College
and he is co-developer of a unique short
course called “Nuts and Bolts of Contempor-
ary Society.” The course, quite popular with

GLASS NOTES: 23

 

OscaR C. DUNN, ’42

the girls, conducts laboratory work in carpen-
try, repairing household applicances and fix-
tures, plumbing problems, and even automo-
bile motor repairs and tune-ups. The course
has attracted national attention.

Dr. THORNTON R. CLEEK has been installed
as president of the North Carolina Academy
of General Practice. He is also a Diplomate
of the American Board of Family Physicians.

Dr. ALEXANDER BLAIN, III is a Fellow in the
American College of Surgeons and a Diplo-
mate in the American Board of Surgery. He
is also an assistant professor of surgery at
Wayne State University School of Medicine
and is surgeon-in-chief at the Alexander
Blain Memorial Hospital and clinic in De-

troit.
194]

GEORGE W. FAISON is with Proctor & Sch-
wartz, Inc., a division of Smith-Corona-Mar-
chant. ‘The division manufactures drying ma-
chinery for the food and chemical industries.

RoBeRT M. GREGERSON is vice president of
Stratmar Systems, a marketing service firm in
New York City.

MARION G. HEATWOLE has been elected gen-
eral counsel for U.S. Steel Corp. In his new
position, Heatwole will have overall admini-
stration of the law department. Heatwole
joined U.S. Steel in 1946 as an attorney with
Carnegie-Illinois Steel Co. In 1956, he was
named general attorney for U.S. Steel, and,
after several executive positions in the law
department, rose to associate general counsel
in September, 1970. He holds membership in
the American, Pennsylvania, and Alleghany
County Bar Association.

1942

Dr. Wuitr N. ScuuLtz is president of Man-
agement Consultants Publishers, a division of

Winter, Kahn, Nielsen, Ross, & Buckwalter,
Inc., an international consultant firm to man-
agement. He is vice president for manage-

242 CLASS NOTES

ment education of the parent company and
executive vice president of Programs Inter-
national, Inc.

Oscar C. DuNN of Ozark, Ala. has been re-
elected to serve a second term as president
of the Alabama Society for Crippled Children
and Adults. Active in the organization for
over 20 years, Dunn is also a leader in vari-
ous programs for underprivileged children
and of the Boy Scouts. In 1966, he was cited
by the Medical Association of Alabama for
his outstanding work with the crippled and
the handicapped. One of the exciting cur-
rent undertakings of the Society is the capital
fund campaign to build Camp ASCCA—a
camping, recreational, and rehabilitation fa-
cility on Lake Martin.

1943

RopertT C. MEHORTER is secretary of the
Home Insurance Co., in charge of all acci-
dent and health insurance.

Dr. CHARLES L. RAST, JR. is in private practice
in St. Petersburg, Fla., specializing in cardio-
vascular diseases and internal medicine. He is
on the board of trustees and also chief of staff
of the Bay Front Medical Center.

BARTON W. Morais, JR., vice president of the
Times-World Corp. of Roanoke, Va., has
been elected president of the Virginia As-
sociated Press Newspaper Association.

James G. LA PLANTE, treasurer for Industrial
Indemnity Co. in San Francisco, has been
elected vice president. As vice president and
treasurer, LaPlante will continue to head
Industrial Indemnity’s financial operations.
He is a member of the Society of Insurance
Accountants, the Financial Executives In-
stitute, and the Insurance Accountants and
Statistical Association.

1944

Dr. Ltoyp H. SmirH, JR. has just completed
an assignment as visiting professor at the Uni-
versity of Geneva School of Medicine in
Switzerland. He is also serving on President
Nixon’s Science Advisory Committee. Smith
is associated with the University of Califor-
nia’s San Francisco Medical Center.

1945

MARRIED: Cuar.es S. ROWE to Mrs. Mary
Ann Else Huntsman on May 1, 1970 in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Dr. R. M. SINSKEY has been elected medical
director of the Lion’s Eye Institute of South-
ern California.

1946

After a long career in the radio broadcasting
business, NORMAN FIscHER has sold his radio
station in Baltimore, and is currently a broad-
cast broker and consultant in Austin, Tex.

Dr. TED MarTIN was inducted as a Fellow
into the International College of Dentists at
a recent meeting of the American Dental As-
sociation.

FREDERICK S. HOLLFy is assistant chief of the
copy desk of the Los Angeles Times, and he

 

JAMEs G. LA PLANTE, °43

is teaching part-time at the Art Center Col-
lege of Design in Los Angeles and at the
California State College at Fullerton.

1947

PRESTON W. HIcKMAN is director of instruc-
tion for Lexington’s city schools. In the sum-
mer of 1970, he taught psychology at Dal-
housie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia.

1948

Recently the Main Line Chamber of Com-
merce (Philadelphia) named JAMEs M. BAL-
LENGEE as its Man-of-the-Year.

PAUL G. CAVALIERE serves on the board of
education in New Britain, Conn., and is chair-
man of its finance committee.

1949

SPENCER W. Morten is president of Bassett
Mirror Co. in Bassett, Va. He is also president
of Dominion LOF, a subsidiary of Libby
Owen Ford Co. The company, formed by Mor-
ten in 1968, manufactures plastic parts for the
furniture industry. It merged with Libby
Owen Ford in 1970.

ALAN W. SPEARMAN has been engaged in home
building and land development in Birming-
ham and Huntsville, Ala., where he is a
member of the National Institute of Real
Estate Brokers.

Kermit L. RAcey has served as municipal
judge for the town of Strasburg, Va. since
1968. In 1970, he was appointed judge of the
Shenandoah County Court and is the current
president of the county bar association.

1950

F. A. Hare is currently chief probation officer
of Richmond’s Juvenile Court. He has been
appointed to the Professional Council of the
National Council on Crime and Delinquency.
Hare has received two federal grants to start

 

W. FRANK BARRON, JR., '52

a volunteer program for citizens’ work with
delinquents.

The Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville,
Fla. has named JOHN H. McCormick, JR. to
its board of directors. McCormick joined At-
lantic in 1957 and has held several executive
posts. In 1969 he became first vice president
in charge of business development. He is
vice president of Atlantic’s group holding
company, the Atlantic Bancorporation. He is
also chairman of the board of the Atlantic
National Bank in West Palm Beach and the
Springfield Atlantic Bank.

Dr. J. BROOKINS ‘TAYLOR has been elected to
the board of directors of Pemco Corp. Taylor
has been active in civic affairs in Bluefield,
W.Va. and is past president of the Rotary
Club. He is also a current member of the
board of directors of the First National Bank
of Bluefield.

ROBERT W. SWINARTON has been named execu-
tive vice president of Dean Witter & Co., a
New York investment firm.

195]

ALFRED W. POWELL, JR. has been elected
president of Peoples Bank & Trust Co. in
Washington, D.C.

1952

W. FRANK BARRON, JR., vice president of the
Rome (Ga.) Coca-Cola Bottling Co., has been
elected to the board of trustees of Berry Col-
lege and Berry Academy. Barron is a direc-
tor of the National City Bank in Rome and
is also an officer of several Coca-Cola bottling
plants in Georgia. He is active in civic and
educational affairs and is a past vice presi-
dent of the Chamber of Commerce, a mem-
ber of the board of directors of the Boy’s
Club, a trustee of the Georgia Foundation
for Independent Colleges, and president of
the Darlington School Alumni Association.

RICHARD OWEN, JR. is marketing manager for
IBM and lives in Miami.

Boyp H. LeysurNn, JR. has been transferred
to Florence, Ala., where he is manager of
the Sears Roebuck store.

The Rev. ROBERT D. SCHENKEL, JR. is associ-
ate rector of St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church
in Kansas City, Mo.

CmMpDR. ROBERT F. CONNALLY, USN, assumed
command of the destroyer, USS Theodore E.
Chandler in November, 1970. The ship serves
with the U.S. 7th Fleet in the Western Pacific.

Davip E. ConsTINE, JR. is executive vice presi-
dent of Morten G. Thalhimer, Inc. of Rich-
mond, engaged in commercial and industrial
real estate.

RICHARD B. BAKER has been named executive
vice president of Myers Beatty Co., Inc. of
Chicago.

Don K. WILLIAMS has formed Computer
Power Unlimited, offering full data process-
ing service in Connecticut, New York, New
Jersey, and Pennsylvania.

1953

JouHN A. WILLIAMSON, II was chairman in
Santa Clara County during the _ successful
campaign of Lt. Gov. Ed Reinecke. Santa
Clara County is the third largest in California.

CARLETON W. FLIck is internal auditing man-
ager for Lockheed Aircraft Corp. in Burbank,
Calif.

McHENrRyY TJ. TICHENOR lives in Harlinger,
Tex., from where he operates several radio
and television broadcasting firms in Texas,
as well as one each in Phoenix, Ariz. and Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla.

1954

C. R. HILt, JR. has been appointed by the
governor to serve as a member of the West
Virginia Turnpike Commission. He is also
president and chairman of the board of the
Merchants & Miners National Bank in Oak
Hill.

H. GorDON LEGGETT, JR. has been elected to
the National Retail Merchants Association’s
board of directors.

The Rev. J. FLETCHER LOwE, JR. is now rec-
tor of the Church of the Holy Comforter in
Richmond, Va.

DirKEN T. VOELKER is practicing law in Co-
lumbus, Ohio and is president of the Lawyers
Club.

Sponsored by the Arlington County Adult
Education Program, an informal discussion
type course for those who want to learn more
about numismatics is being offered residents
of Northern Virginia. The Adult Education
Office has selected SeEpGwick L. Moss as in-
structor for the course. He is a 10-year mem-
ber of the American Numismatic Association.

1955

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILEY B. SPURGEON,
JR., a son, Daniel Bryan, on Aug. 15, 1970.
Spurgeon is executive vice president of Mun-
cie Gear Works, Inc. He is currently treasurer

of the Outboard Motor Manufacturers As-
sociation, having also served as president and
vice president. Spurgeon is a director of the
National Boating Industry Association.

HARRY SHENDOW owns and operates five Stag
Shops, Inc. in metropolitan Washington and
the Virginia suburbs. He expects to open two
new shops in Richmond’s Cloverleaf Mall in

1972.

Dr. WATSON A. Bowes, JR., a member of the
faculty since 1964, has been promoted to as-
sociate professor of obstetrics and gynecology
at the University of Colorado School of Medi-
cine. He is a Diplomate of the American
Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

1956

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD M. JOHNSTON,
a daughter, Meredith Lyle, on Dec. 31, 1970.

In February, 1970, CHARLES R. BEALL became
a Junior Chamber of Commerce interna-
tional senator. He also serves as president of
the Martinsburg, W.Va. Rotary Club.

CHARLES A. MACINTOSH is an associate admini-
strator of Temple University Hospital. Also,
he is a Fellow in the American College of
Hospital Administrators.

WILLIAM T. M. Grice, after nine years as a
reporter with the Washington Evening Star,
has joined the staff of Congressman Gilbert
Gude (R-Md.) as press assistant.

JAMES H. HARVELL, III practices law in New-
port News, Va. He is associate judge of the
city’s Civil Court and Commissioner in Chan-
cery for both the Hustings Court and the
Corporation Court.

1957

C. PETER LEININGER has joined the controls
division of Allis-Chalmers Manufacturing Co.
as manager of financial analysis.

JouNn T. BOONE is now advertising manager
for the Boyle midway division of American
Home Products Co.

Formerly with First National City Bank of
New York and after nine years in Asia,
CHARLES F. DAvis, JR. is now with Continental
Illinois Bank, where he is second vice presi-
dent in the Far Eastern group.

CARL F. BARNES, JR. has returned to the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin-Milwaukee following a
leave of absence during the fall of 1970 when
he was directing excavations in the Cathedral
of Saissons near Paris. His team discovered
foundations of a tower built around 1158
and the end of the chair of the cathedral.

The investment banking firm of Butcher &
Sherrerd has announced the appointment of
WILLIAM J. RUSSELL, JR. as a general partner.
Russell joined the firm in 1959 as a regis-
tered representative; he was named mutual
funds manager in 1967 and assistant sales
manager in 1969. He is a member of the In-
vestment Association of Philadelphia, the
Technical Analysts Society of Philadelphia,
the National Mutual Fund Managers Associa-
tion, and the International Association of
Financial Counselors.

453 CLASS NOTES

 

WILLIAM J. RUSSELL, JR., 57

1958

WARREN NUESSLE was recently promoted to
vice president and general manager of Fox
Morris Associates, a nationwide executive
search firm, located in Philadelphia.

THomMAsS F. KING, JR. is president of the
Charter Investment & Development Co., of
Jacksonville, Fla.

CHARLES E. NoLrTeE, III has been elected treas-
urer of the Washington Food Brokers Associa-
tion and a director of the Grocery Manufac-
turer’s Representatives of Washington.

JoHN E. CHApoTON has been appointed act-
ing tax legislative counsel for the U.S. De-
partment of the Treasury.

1959
MARRIED: Dr. HENRY H. BOHLMAN to Bar-
bara Nagle on July 11, 1970. Bohlman is cur-
rently in the U.S. Air Force as an orthopedist
at Mather AFB in California.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHarves D. Hurt, Jr.,
a son, Walter Grear, on Feb. 8.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM S. HARRISON,
a son, Lloyd Spencer, on Sept. 22, 1970.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp F. HALSsELL,
JR., a daughter, Karen Ruth, on July go,
1970. Halsell is with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner, & Smith in Dallas.

JOHN H. EspPeERIAN is assistant headmaster at
Saddle River Day School in Ft. Lee, N.J. He
also is doing work towards a doctorate in
education.

CLARK MuntTz LEA has his own business in
Clearwater, Fla. His firm—Marine Metal Pro-
ducts Co.—manufactures live bait fishing aera-
tors and accessories.

‘THOMAS B. BRYANT, III has been re-elected to
a second consecutive term as a member of the
South Carolina House of Representatives from
Orangeburg County.

46: CLASS NOTES

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. NEAL P. LAVELLE, a
son, David, on Sept. 17, 1970.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK H. BELDEN,
Jr., a son, Frederick H. Belden, III, on Aug.
2, 1970.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. MAx L. ELLIOTT, twin
sons, John Granville and Carter McMillan, on
Nov. 21, 1970.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. EpwArp G. Woopson,
Jr., a daughter, Natalie Elizabeth, on Nov.
23, 1970. Woodson is vice president of Armor-

ed Motor Service, Inc., a division of Purolator
Co.

ALLEN MEAD FERGUSON has been elected as-
sistant vice president of Craigie, Inc., invest-
ment bankers and brokers of Richmond, Va.
Ferguson joined Craigie in April, 1968, mov-
ing from Dun & Bradstreet.

RICHARD J. ABERSON now lives in San _ Jose,
Costa Rica, where he is general manager of
the First National City Bank (Costa Rica).
This is the first time the bank has had an
operation directly in Costa Rica.

While employed by Aetna Life Insurance
Co., CHARLES S$. CHAMBERLIN is pursuing a
law degree at the University of Connecticut.

Cmopr. W. ScoTTr ALLEN is district judge ad-
vocate for the 8th Naval District.

196]

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. McWIL-
LIAMS, a daughter, Allison, on Sept. 27, 1970.
McWilliams, associated with Wachovia Bank
& Trust Co. in Asheville, N.C., has been ap-
pointed to the executive committee of the
North Carolina Young Bankers Association.
Still active in tennis, he is co-chairman of the
Asheville Open Tennis Championships.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE Y. BIRDSONG, a
son, Charles Randolph, on Sept. 5, 1970. Bird-
song is corporate secretary and attorney for
Birdsong Storage Co. in Suffolk, Va.

JosepH C. ELGIN resigned from DuPont. in
June, 1970 and is now with Hooker Chemical
Co. in Niagria Falls, N.Y. as a financial an-
alyst.

REGINALD M. SMITH, JR. is merchandise man-
ager of acetate and rayon fabrics for Deer-
ing Milliken, Inc. of New York City.

E, J. SULZBERGER, JR. is chairman of the city
of Hampton Electoral Board, chairman of
the Salvation Army Advisory Board, and the
cancer crusade for the peninsula.

1962
MARRIED: Avusrey B. CALVIN to Alice M.
Red on May 30, 1970. Calvin is secretary and
a director of the Triton Corp. in Houston,
‘Texas.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN WALKER RUT-
LEDGE, a son, Peter Bowman, on Sept. 13, 1970.

JOHN ROLFE TRIBLE, an appliance parts distri-
butor in Washington, D.C., has been elected

president of the National Association of
Wholesaler-Distributors.

WILLIAM L. RoBeERTs has been named senior
officer for the First National City Bank of
New York in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia.

JAMes N. APPLEBAUM joined Benton &
Bowles, Inc., an advertising agency in New
York City, in December, 1969. He is now as-
sociate director of merchandising and sales
promotion. Also, he was named director of
promotion management services, a division
of Benton & Bowles.

STEVE SUTTLE became a partner in the Abilene
law firm of McMahon, Smart, Sprain, Wilson,
& Camp in September, 1970. He was also ap-

pointed a director of the Abilene Fine Arts |

Museum and the Boy’s Club.

After serving in the Marine Corps and re-
ceiving an M.S. degree in marine biology
from the University of Connecticut, C. BRAx-
TON DEw is now employed by the Manhattan
firm of Quirk, Lawler, & Matusky—enviro-
mental engineers.

After finishing the Boston University School
of Dentistry in May, 1971, JAY C. GREEN ex-
pects to practice in Plantation, Fla.

MARRIED: REv. WILLIAM B. Lowry to Faye
Aline Houston on April 26, 1969. Lowry is

vicar of St. Katherine’s Chapel, Mount Cal-

vary Parish in Baltimore.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK L. BAKER,
III, a son, Frederick L. Baker, IV, on June 4,
1970. Baker is with IBM in Tokyo, Japan.

Nick DENTON is with the Reader’s Digest As-
sociation as manger of the audio equipment
division.

JouN P. MARcH has been promoted to assistant
vice president at the State National Bank in
El Paso, Tex. March began his association
with the bank in 1964 and became assistant
cashier in July, 1969.

Having completed residency at Tuft’s New
England Medical Center in Boston, RONALD
L. KING is now a lieutenant commander and
chief of the department of radiology at the
Memphis Naval Hospital.

RODGER W. FAUBER was recently elected a vice
president of Fidelity National Bank in Lynch-
burg where he heads the credit card opera-
tion. He is also vice president of Central
Lynchburg, Inc., a downtown redevelopment
and revitalization project.

Capt. R. MEADE CHRISTIAN, JR. is a pediatri-
cian in the U.S. Army Dispensary in Mann-
heim, Germany.

1964
BORN: Dr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. FLIPPEN, II,
a son, Charles, III, on Aug. 6, 1970. Flippen
is teaching in the journalism department at
the University of Maryland.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Dwicut C. SMITH, III,
a son, Brian MacArthur, on March 31, 1970.

Smith is with the Navy Judge Advocate Gen-
eral Corps and is currently station judge ad-
vocate at the Naval Air Station, Miromar, in
San Diego, Calif.

Rosert R. La Fortune has been appointed
clerk for the District Court of Winchendon,
Mass. by the governor.

James W. RAmsEy, JR. of Greenville, Va. was
recently appointed assistant director of fi-
nancial aid to students at the University of
Virginia. Ramsey received an M.A. degree
from the University of Virginia in 1965 and
has completed all course work for the doc-
torate.

The Rev. STEPHEN DAVENPORT, the new vicar
of St. John’s Episcopal Church in Murray,
Ky., is also on the coaching staff of Murray
State’s football team. Before moving to Mur-
ray, Ky., Davenport coached for six seasons
at St. Stephen’s Episcopal School in Alex-
andria, Va. Davenport is also a member of
the United Campus Ministry Staff and in this
capacity selects one phase of campus life to
which he devotes special attention.

Dr. RUTLEDGE W. CurlE finished Yale’s School
of Medicine in 1968 and his internship at the
New Haven Hospital in 1969. He is currently
finishing two years with the U.S. Public
Health Service at the Pawnee Indian Hospital
in Oklahoma.

The Martinsville Jaycees have given BARRY
GREENE its 1971 distinguished service award.
Greene’s activities have included key roles in
Brotherhood Week and race relations, the
United Fund drive, the Retail Merchants As-
sociation, the Heart Association, Boy Scouts,
and Big Brothers Committee.

1965

MARRIED: Cart. Douctas V. Davis to Jean
Ann Craft on April 11, 1970.

MARRIED: Douctas D. Hacestab to Dorothy
Pechtel on Feb. 20. Hagestad has been pro-
moted to assistant to the president of the
Illinois Central Railroad Co.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. BLAINE A. BROWNELL,
a son, Blaine Erickson, on March 22, 1970.
Brownell is currently an assistant professor
of history at Purdue University. He will be a
senior post doctoral fellow in the Institute
of Southern History at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity during the 1971-72 academic year.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN 'T. HIBBARD, a
son, Charles Dexter, on Jan. 30. Hibbard is
with Hornblower & Weeks in Boston.

WILLIAM F. C. SKINNER, JR., after Army duty
in Vietnam, is now practicing law in Decatur,
Ga.

After graduation from the Chicago Medical
School in 1969, Dr. Ross S. Conn entered the
Cleveland Clinic. He will start residency in
radiology at Western Pennsylvania Hospital
in Pittsburgh in July, 1971.

After receiving a doctorate from Florida State
University, DR. CHARLES A. SWEET is now an
assistant professor of English at Eastern Ken-
tucky University.

RONALD J. KAYE is attending the Army Judge
Advocate General’s School at the University
of Virginia. Kaye expects to be assigned to
Marine Corps headquarters in May, 1971.

After serving as supply officer aboard the
USS Donebola, J. LinDsEY SHORT, JR. received
his law degree from the University of ‘Texas
and is practicing law in Houston.

1966

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HArry E. BROOKBY, a
son, John Miller, on June 22, 1970 in Tripoli,
Libya. In October, 1970, Brookby was trans-
ferred back to the U.S., and is currently work-
ing as an exploration geologist for Mobil Oil
Corp. in New Orleans.

S. BrrnriE HARPER is director of research for
Mid-American Industries, Inc. of Ft. Smith,
Ark.

RALPH N. FULLER has begun assignment as
chief of the Richmond Times-Dispatch news
bureau in Williamsburg, Va. Fuller has work-
ed in bureaus at Lexington and Staunton,
and for the past two years has been chief of
the bureau at Charlottesville.

JOHN H. FREEMAN is currently assistant pro-

_ fessor of sociology at the University of Cali-

fornia at Riverside.

Currently at the University of Oklahoma
College of Law, JOHN Carp McMurry and
JAMEs C. HAMILL, JR., 69 were on the Okla-
homa team that tied for third place with
Tulane in the National Moot Court Competi-
tion. In the second round of competition, the
Oklahoma team defeated the Washington
and Lee team. Both McMurry and Hamill are
pursuing careers in appellate law.

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, JR. was released from
service with the Navy in June, 1970. He was
a supply officer aboard the destroyer USS
Laffey for one year and saw a year’s duty at
a supply base in DaNang, Vietnam. He is cur-
rently associated with the Fidelity National
Bank in Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. LAWRENCE E. ORME, a graduate of George-
town University’s Dental School, is now prac-
ticing in McLean, Va.

After serving with the Marine Corps in Viet-
nam and as a platoon commander at OCS, T.
Topp DABNEY, JR. is now in medical school at
the University of Virginia.

After graduating from Vanderbilt Medical
School in June, 1970, where he was senior
class president, Dr. DAvip FLEISCHER is now

interning at Cleveland Metropolitan General
Hospital.

Capt. H. Scotr Lavery, Jr. is with the Army
Ordinance Corps serving in the Central High-
lands of Vietnam as ar ammunition advisor
to the Vietnamese.

Scheduled to receive his doctorate from LSU
this spring, PHILLip D. MOLLERE has accepted
a post doctoral research position in Frankfurt,
Germany. He will be working in the area of
photoelectron spectroscopy.

After duty with the Air Force, JOHN JEFFREY
WILLIAMs is now a representative in industrial

sales for Black & Decker Manufacturing Co.
in Indianapolis, Ind.

THOMAS ROBERTSON, with Prudential Insur-
ance Co., has been transferred to Cleveland,
Ohio, where he is group pension manager for
a four state area.

After serving in the Army, Lewis O. FUNK-
HOUSER, JR. is now with U.S. Fidelity & Guar-
anty Co. of Baltimore as a securities analyst.

Receiving his M.D. from the Medical College
of Virginia in 1970, DR. GEORGE BOKINSKY, JR.
is currently at the University of Colorado
Medical Center in Denver where he has be-
gun residency in internal medicine.

1967

After serving as assistant supply officer aboard
a Navy destroyer, Bop Prippy has been re-
leased from active military service and is now
working as assistant director of development
at St. Christopher’s School in Richmond.

Navy Lt. JoHN M. Ho.tapay has extended his
service until October, 1971. He has served in
Vietnam, the Philippines, Japan, Tawian,
Hong Kong, Thailand, and Australia. Cur-
rently, he is security officer and manager of
the officer’s club at the Naval Air Station,
Agana, on Guam.

C. F. ARMSTRONG is assistant professor of socio-
logy at Cheyney State College while finishing
his doctorate at the University of Pennsy]l-
vania.

JAmes D. Awap has been elected vice presi-
dent of Channing Securities, Inc. of New
York City. Channing Securities is the issuer
of shares of Channing common stock and
special funds. Awad joined Channing’s re-
search department in 1969 and became assis-
tant portfolio manager of special funds in
1970. Among his other duties, he is a research
specialist in the retail field and also follows a
number of special situation securities.

NELSON J. ADAMS is head of the English de-
partment at the Edmond Burke School in
Washington, D.C.

After receiving his master’s degree in English
from Stetson University, E>warp N. BEACHUM
is teaching English and communications at
Southwest School in Melbourne, Fla.

After nearly a year as corporate secretary and
general counsel for the Great American In-
surance Companies in Los Angeles, RICHARD
L. MITCHELL is now with Crum & Forster, a
large holding corporation in New York spec-
lalizing in insurance. He is vice president
and counsel for C&F.

ROBERT JOHN SCHEELEN is employed at the
Institute for Behavioral Research in Silver
Spring, Md. In addition, he works one shift
for the Montgomery County Hotline, a crisis
intervention telephone service.

1968
MARRIED: JAMES DABNEY SETTLE to Martha
Kay Gilliam on June 27, 1970. Settle is at-
tending graduate school at the University of
Virginia.

CLASS NOTES: 27

MARRIED: A. JOHN PECK, JR. to Susan Lodge
in July, 1970.

MARRIED: SAM PRESTON, JR. to Margaret
Frances Fiala on August 22, 1970. Preston is
now working as a Woodrow Wilson admini-
strative intern at Prairie View A&M College
in Texas. He serves as assistant to the busi-
ness manager and chairman of the marketing
committee.

Barry J. LEVIN has taken a year out of his law
studies at the University of Virginia to work
with the White House Conference on Chil-
dren. Levin plans to wind up his work with
the Conference this spring and then will work
with the White House Conference on Youth
until June. He will return next September
for his third year of law school.

In February, 1970, PARKER DENACo completed
a tour of military duty in Inchon, Korea,
where he served as provost marshal with a
command of some 400 men. Upon discharge,
he returned to Bangor, Me., where he will be
associated with the law firm of Eaton, Pea-
body, Bradford, & Veague.

1969
MARRIED: THOMAS NEWMAN to Margaret
Stewart in June, 1970. Newman is a second-
year student, at the Vanderbilt Medical
School.

ADDISON G. WILSON has been elected editor
of the University of South Carolina Law
School newspaper. He is also legal assistant to
Congressman Floyd D. Spence.

Lr. JAMEs D. RUSH is serving with the 1oth
Marines (Artillery), 2nd Marine Division. His
unit just returned from Mediterrean deploy-
ment.

J. Warp Hunt has joined the brokerage divi-
sion of Claude R. McClennahan, Inc., a Dallas
commercial real estate firm.

1970

MARRIED: JOHN ROBERT PATTERSON to Julia
Ponce on February 13. Patterson is practicing
law in Roanoke.

BORN: Mk. and Mrs. Ropert A. VINYARD, a
son, Christopher Evans, on February 19. Vin-
yard is currently with the Army, stationed at

Ft. Lee, Va.

Jack A. Kirsy is employed at the Girard
Trust Bank in Philadelphia, where he is in
the estate and financial planning division.

/n memoriam
1900

HERBERT BROOKE CHERMSIDE, for many years
clerk of Charlotte County, Va., died Nov.
15, 1970. His papers included a letter dated
Nov. 30, 1896 from Professor Addison Hogue,
then professor of Greek at Washington and
Lee, complimenting Mr. S. H. Owens for hav-
ing been instrumental in “sending such a
fine boy as Chermside” to Washington and
Lee.

283; CLASS NOTES

190]

JoHN WILLIAM JOHNSON, an investment and
real estate businessman of Tuscumbia, Ala.,

died Dec. 18. 1970.

1907

Ropert S$. SANDERS, a distinguished Presby-
terian minister, died Jan. 19. Last October,
the Presbyterian Historical Society, in recog-
nition of his scholarly attainments and his-
toric interest, presented Sanders its Distin-
guished Service Award. Sanders was cited for
his significant contribution to an understand-

ing of American Presbyterian history.

1910

The Rev. WILLIAM CAREY BARKER, pastor
emeritus of First Baptist Church in Newnan,
Ga. and a widely known evangelist, died Feb.
3. He was a feed and produce broker in
Lynchburg, Va. from 1912 to 1927. He did
evangelistic work from 1927 to 1950. Barker
was ordained as a Baptist minister in Lynch-

burg in February, 1950.

1914

Cot. SAMUEL ROLFE MILLAR, JR., for many
years in the farming and livestock business
in Front Royal, Va., died Dec. 30, 1970 in

Clearwater, Fla.

1919

MERCER PorRTER SUTTON, for many years with
the Institute for Corporate Research at
Johns Hopkins University, died Nov. 15,
1970. He retired from his position with Johns

Hopkins in June, 1969.

1920

Joun WortH KERN, former mayor of Indiana-
polis and judge of the U.S. Tax Court, died
in February. Kern was elected mayor of In-
dianapolis in 1934, and three years later
President Franklin D. Roosevelt named him
to the U.S. Board of Tax Appeals, which
later became the U.S. Tax Court. He retired

from the court in 1961.

1922

WILLIAM ALBERT WILLIAMS, JR., a former
Richmond, Va. businessman and one-time
mayor of Nags Head, N.C., died Jan. 3. Wil-
liams, a vice president of Ruffin & Payne, Inc.,
a Richmond building materials firm, retired
in 1950 when he moved to Nags Head. He was
also business manager for the Lost Colon

outdoor drama at Manteo, N.C.

1923

Joun D. T. Born, a retired ordinance engi-
neer with the U.S. Army, died Oct. 30, 1970 in
Falls Church, Va. At the time of his retire-
ment, Bold was program manager of fire con-
trol materiel at the Army Materiel Command

in Washington, D.C.

 

1925

Honorary

The Rev. CHURCHILL J. GiIBsoN, whose honor-
ary Doctor of Divinity degree was awarded by
Washington and Lee University in 1925, died
Nov. 23, 1970 at the age of 85. Many alumni
who were in the student body between 1919
and 1927 remember “Parson” Gibson with
affection as rector of the R. E. Lee Memorial
Episcopal Church and chaplain to students
and cadets. St. James’ Episcopal Church in
Richmond, Va., which Gibson served as rec-
tor for 29 years, has established the Churchill
Gibson Foundation in his memory.

1926

HocuE PooLe, a prominent South ‘Texas
rancher, died Feb. 2 in Cotulla, Tex. Poole
was a charter member and first president of
the Pan American Zebu Association, a director
of the International Charolais Breeders As-
sociation, and a director of the San Antonio
Livestock Show and Exposition.

1930

JosepH Carson Whitson of Talladega, Ala.
died Feb. 15. A member of one of the pioneer
Talladega families, Whitson was a farmer, a
riding instructor, and a veteran of World
War II.

CoL. MEDFORD G. RAMEY, who received a mas-
ter’s degree from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in 1931, died Jan. 1. A graduate of
VMI, he served as instructor and assistant
coach there from 1922 until 1931. Since then,
Ramey served as coach and athletic director
at Handly High School in Winchester, in-
structor in physical education and director of
intramural sports at VMI, with the Counter-
intelligence Corps during World War II, and
for two years prior to his retirement in 1964
he was Richmond divisional manager for In-
vestors Diversified Services.

1932

HARMON MITCHELL WILCOx, a long-time em-
ployee with International Business Machines,
died Jan. 12. He was a member of IBM’s
Quarter Century Club.

1933

Ropert A. Morris, director of personnel for
the public schools in Huntington; W.Va., died
Jan. 10. He was former director of athletics
at Marshall University and at Ashland Junior
College.

1934

Dr. Harrison F. EncuisH, III, a physician
from Trenton, N.J., died Jan. 15.

1937

GEORGE ROBERT STRALEY, a former technical
sales representative with E. I. DuPont Co.,
died Feb. 20 in Wilmington, Del.

1939

ROBERT STEPHENS Hoyt, Sr., director of the
Perth Amboy General Hospital for almost
10 years, died Feb. 11. Hoyt was a member of
the board of managers of the Perth Amboy
Savings Institution, a consultant to the Ameri-
can Public Health Association, and president
of Amercian Management, Inc., a consulting
concern for overseas hospitals. He was also
a visiting lecturer in hospital administration
at George Washington University. From 1945
to 1949, Hoyt was a director of the Hartford
Memorial Hospital in Harve de Grace, Md.
and then spent 12 years as director of the
Lutheran Hospital of Maryland in Baltimore.
He was a former president of the Maryland,
District of Columbia, and Delaware Hospital
Associations, and the Lutheran Hospital As-
sociation of America.

1940

A. McKEE WING, III, vice president and trust
officer of Union Trust National Bank in St.
Petersburg, Fla., died Jan. 20. Wing’s voca-
tions varied from soldier, lawyer, and banker
to trust officer. As a high school and college
student and throughout his business career,
he was an outstanding golfer. Wing opened
law offices in St. Petersburg in 1946, following
World War II duty with the Army. He was
deputy commissioner of the workmen’s com-
pensation division of the Florida Industrial
Commission in 1949-50, city attorney for
Pinellas Park, bond attorney for the town of -
Largo, and a member of Union Trust's trust
committee for two decades. Wing headed the
founding group of Franklin Federal Savings
& Loan Association and subsequently became
the institution’s vice president. He was a
director and general counsel for the Barnett
National Bank of St. Petersburg. He left his
private practice in June, 1969 to become vice
president and trust officer of Union Trust
National Bank.

194]

HERBERT CLYDE WOLF, JR., formerly an em-
ployee of the Union Fork & Hoe Co. of Co-
lumbus, Ohio, died Dec. 3.

1943

James H. Daves, JRr., a Navy veteran and for-
mer audit manager of the Nashville office of
Peat, Marwich, Mitchell, & Co., died March
1. He was president of the Tennessee Society
of Certified Public Accountants.

1945

EUGENE EMMONS BURCHAM, an _ accountant
with Owens-Illinois Co., died Oct. 31, 1970.

1948

F. NORMAN SNELGROVE, production manager
at the New Departure-Hyatt Division of Gen-
eral Motors in Bristol, Conn., died Jan. go.

1962

Dr. Hersert S. SALOMON died Feb. 14 in
Dallas, Tex., where he practiced medicine.

 

 

feo e
OOS
COLLEGE

See ag ~
cate SRO Y

OLLINGER

se Ng AW.

$1 |
i It is the historian’s work at its very
“best, an accurate record of the

">

2

.

~~

r

4

a

7

: ¥! j
4

\ .
=
+

>

i
4f}

os

\
+

 

struggles of a great university, show-
ing how far the beginnings, how diff-
cult the road, how worthy the pro-
duct. —Richmond News-Leader

at isa good history.:..... Dr. Creén-
shaw writes well about an institution
for which he obviously has a deep
affection.

—Chattanooga News-Free Press

No similar efforts which come to
mind, including Morison on Har-
vard, certain centennial and _ bicen-
tennial products, and more modern
studies, surpass its merits as the story
of an educational institution.

—Petersburg Progress-Index

This book has deep meaning
for everyone who has shared the
Washington and Lee experience.

For all, it is an important
record of the development of one
of the nation’s great institutions.

Be sure to obtain a first edition copy.

Fill in and mail the attached

order form today.

 

THE RISE AND GROWTH
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw
Professor of History

Published by Random House,
New York

Price: $10.00

This book may have come as a bless-
ing to revive the great spirit of
Washington and Lee. There has never
been more to be proud of on the Lex-
ington campus—the book makes this

clear. —Charleston News and Courier

The account is concise, yet rich in de-
tail, with frequent touches of subtle
humor, ..... The: excellence of. tis
volume fully justifies the enthusiasm
with which it has already been re-

ceived. —Lexington News-Gazette

A pleasing, witty style and excellent
use of quotations enliven the book;
descriptions of student activities and
vignettes of important persons are
particularly interesting.

—The Journal of Southern History

The history of the college is intricately
related to the history of the country
itself, its prosperity, wars, depressions,
changes in attitudes and in manners.
Consequently, General Lee’s College
is a volume that will interest both
friends of the college and those read-
ers who are interested in Southern
and American history.

—Richmond Times-Dispatch

Alumni of Washington and Lee will
appreciate General Lee’s College
most. It will give pleasure and fur-
nish important insights to all who
appreciate the heritage of our state,
region, and nation as well as the es-
sential role of higher education in
our efforts to cope with this time of

turmoil. —Roanoke Times

ORDER FORM

THE BOOKSTORE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me

copy(ies) of General Lee’s College by Dr. Ollinger

Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for each copy

purchased).

 

Name

 

Address

 

Payment of $

is enclosed.

Zip Code

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W
x THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
LEXINGTON VA
24450

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

 

 

 

