 

MAY 1979

iversity

 

 

ALUMNI REUNIONS 1979

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee un

 

 

 

 

 

 

XH

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 54, Number 4, May 1979

William C. Washburn, 40 .............-----085 Editor

Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 .................- Associate Editor
Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, ’77 ...........---- Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter .......... eee ee eee eee Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ...... bowa dep ee oe Pee eek eee ee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Annual Alumni Meeting .................0ceceeeeeeeneees 1
Growing Up on Campus ..............ccseeeeeeeeeeeeeees 5
New Endowed Professorship ................0eeeeeeee 9
Reunions in Pictures ..............ccee sence ee eeeeeeeenees 10
WL Gazette ........ ccc cccce cece e ence en eeeeneeeneeeneneees 13
Administrative Change ...............scseseeereeeneeeees 13
Desha Portrait Unveiled ................:seceeeeeeeeneees 16
The Real Father of Radio .................:cccceeeneeeee 18
Chapter NewS .........:0cccecceeceeeeeeeeeneeea nena eee 20
Class Notes: 220)escci Gass ee 22
In Memoriati i... isc cine fees etre dee nena 27

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee Unwersity Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
President

RICHARD A. DENNY, 52, Atlanta, Ga.
: Vice President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LeRoy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD Ban, 49, Spartanburg, S. C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, '42, Baltimore, Md.
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 758, Richmond, Va.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.

G. RUSSELL LADD, 757, Mobile, Ala.
Joun H. McCorMackx Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

el»

7

ON THE COVER: Henry P. Johnston, ’29, of Birming-
ham, Ala., who returned to the campus during Alumni
Reunion Weekend for the 50th anniversary of his class,
lays a hand of comradeship upon the arm of Dr. John
Newton Thomas, ’24, of Richmond, rector emeritus of
the W&L Board of Trustees. Their seats of intimate
conversation are on the porch of the Lee House. Such
tableaux of conviviality were frequent during the
reunion celebration. Photograph by Sally Mann.

 

 

 

ANNUAL ALUMNI MEETING

Three Graduates are Honored; New Association Officers are Elected

 

Everett Tucker Jr.

An estimated 650 out-of-town alumni,
their families and guests returned to
Washington and Lee May 10-13 for the
University s annual Spring Class Reunion
Weekend, which included Law Day
activities and the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association.

Reunions were held by members of the
classes of 1929, 1934, 1939, 1944, 1949,
1954, 1959, 1964, 1969, 1974 and the
“Gold Star Generals’ —graduates prior to
1929.

Charles R. McDowell Jr., ‘48, opened
the reunion program with a talk in Lee
Chapel. Excerpts from that speech are
included in an article elsewhere in this
issue.

In addition to the traditional social
activities and class banquets, the reunion
program included a Reunion Ball, a mini
Fancy Dress gala with music provided by
Duke Ellington’s band. (The Ellington
band, by the way, was the theme band for
“The Glories of Egypt,” the 1978 Fancy
Dress Ball.) The Reunion Ball was also
open to members of W&L’s graduating
seniors and third-year law students.

Other activities included the John

 

James H. Bierer

Randolph Tucker Lecture, delivered this

_year by Soia Mentschikoff, dean of the

University of Miami School of Law, and
the presentation of the Distinguished
Alumni Awards at the Alumni Association’s
annual meeting. This year’s recipients

_were James H. Bierer of Pittsburgh,

Joseph M. Glickstein of Jacksonville, Fla.,
and Everett Tucker Jr. of Little Rock.
Elected president of the Alumni Board
of Directors at its spring meeting was
William P. Boardman, 63, ’69L, of
Columbus, Ohio, an attorney with the firm
of Porter, Wright, Morris, & Arthur. He

_will continue as president through next

May.

Richard A. Denny Jr., 52, of Atlanta,
an attorney with the firm of King &
Spalding, was elected vice president. He
was last year’s treasurer of the alumni
board.

Elected treasurer for the next year was
William B. Ogilvie Jr., 64, of Houston,
Texas. Ogilvie recently resigned as
executive vice president of Baylor College
of Medicine in Houston.

At the Alumni Association meeting,
three men were named to four-year terms

 

 

 

Joseph M. Glickstein

 

William P. Boardman, new alumni president,
with William C. Washburn, alumni secretary

1

ih a i ae eee ee

 

ANNUAL ALUMNI MEETING

 

Andrew N. Baur, new director

on the board. They are Andrew N. Baur,
66, president of St. Louis County Bank,
of Clayton, Mo., Edgar M. Boyd,

’42, a partner in the investment firm of
Baker, Watts & Co., of Baltimore, and G.
Russell Ladd, ’57, a partner with Thames
& Batre, an insurance company of Mobile,
Ala. They replace retiring members Edwin
J. Foltz, 40, of Gladwyne, Pa., Jerry G.
South, 54, °56L, of Mill Valley, Calif., and
Robert M. White II, ’38, of Mexico, Mo.

2

 

 

Richard A. Denny Jr., vice president

Edgar M. Boyd, new director

William C. Washburn and Leroy C.
(Buddy) Atkins were re-elected as
secretary and assistant secretary of the
Alumni Association.

The 1978-79 Alumni Fund trophies
were presented during the annual
meeting.

The Bierer Trophy for the highest
participation by an academic class
graduated in the last 10 years—to the
Class-of 1977A, Edward T. (Terry) Atwood

 

 

III, class agent.

The Malone Trophy for the largest
amount raised by a law class graduated in
the last 50 years—to the Class of 1934L,
H. Taylor Jones, class agent.

The Richmond Trophy for the highest
participation by an academic class
graduated in the last 50 years—to the
Class of 1930A, Earl T. Jones, class agent.
This is the second consecutive year 1930A
has won the trophy.

 

 

Annual Fund Chairman C. Royce Hough reports another record year.

 

 

Earl T. Jones, ’30A, receives the Richmond Trophy a second time. H. Taylor Jones, ‘34L, receives the Malone Trophy for his class.

 

Thomas Trophy goes to Jack P. Porterfield Jr., '49L, and E. Stewart Epley, James H. Bierer receives the Washington Trophy on behalf of Thomas E.
‘49A, for those classes’ reunion-year increase. Bruce, class agent of ’40A, winner four years in a row.

3

 

ANNUAL ALUMNI MEETING

New Law Council President Robert E. Stroud

The Washington Trophy for the largest
amount raised by an academic class
graduated in the last 50 years—to the
Class of 1940A, Thomas E. Bruce, class
agent. This is the fourth consecutive year
1940A has won the trophy.

A newly established trophy, the John
Newton Thomas Trophy, was presented—
this year to the Class of 1949A, E. Stewart
Epley, class agent, and the Class of 1949L,
Jack B. Porterfield Jr., class agent. The
trophy goes to the academic and law class
observing a reunion which has the greatest
increase in annual giving over the class's
previous-year contribution.

Also at the meeting, this year’s three
distinguished alumni were presented
citations for their outstanding service to
Washington and Lee and their
communities.

A 1940 W&L graduate, Bierer recently
retired as chairman of the board of
Pittsburgh Corning Corp., of which he had
also been president and chief executive
officer. He is a former chairman of
Washington and Lee’s annual fund and a
member of the Washington and Lee

4

 

 

Dean Mentschikoff, Tucker lecturer

chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, the
national honorary leadership society
founded at W&L in 1914. Also active with
the national Boy Scouts, Bierer was
director of operations for its 1973 National
Jamboree and general chairman of the
1977 Allegheny Trails Council Jamboree.

Glickstein, senior partner of the law
firm of Glickstein, Crenshaw, Glickstein,
Block & Slott, is a 1920 law graduate of
Washington and Lee. He is a founder of
Zeta Beta Tau, a social fraternity at W&L,
and a member of Omicron Delta Kappa
and the University’s Robert E. Lee
Associates. In 1961, he established the
Glickstein Memorial Student Loan Fund
at Washington and Lee to assist deserving
students.

Tucker, a 1934 W&L graduate, is an
internationally known expert on economic
development. He is founder and president
of Industrial Development Co. in Little
Rock and past president of both the
Southern and American Industrial
Development Councils. In 1965 he
traveled to Peru at the request of the
Agency for International Development to

 

Walter L. Hannah, retiring Law Council
president

teach back-country Indians techniques in
industrial development. Tucker was
president of the W&L Alumni Board from
1974 to 1975 and is currently chairman of
the Robert E. Lee Associates, W&L’s most
generous annual benefactors.

Elections were also held at the Law
Council meeting, part of the annual Law
Day activities.

Robert E. Stroud, 58L, of
Charlottesville, was elected president of
the Law Council, the law school’s
equivalent of the Alumni Board of
Directors. Ethan Allen, ’31L, of New York
City, was elected vice president.

Stroud succeeded Walter L. Hannah,
’50L, of Greensboro, as president, and
Allen stepped into the vice president
position vacated by Stroud’s change of
office.

Cherie Wright, executive secretary of
the Law School Association, which is made
up of dues-paying members of the law
alumni, was re-elected.

The alumni weekend was highlighted
by the W&L lacrosse team’s victory over
Hofstra University, 12-9.

 

by Charles R. McDowell Jr., ’48

GROWING UP ON CAMPUS

Of Harmony Hollow, Limericks, Herb The Dog Man, and Something Very Dear

Charles R. McDowell Jr. is a 1948 WeL graduate who is now
the Washington, D.C., correspondent for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch. He is the son of the late Charles R. McDowell, who
taught law at WOL for more than 40 years until his death in 1968,
and Mrs. C. R. McDowell, “the indispensable Mrs. Mac,”
secretary to five law deans at the University. (Charley recalls that
because of his parents’ connection with the law school, when he
was growing up he was called “Footnote.” )

He is a columnist in the Russell Baker/James Reston genre, a
sometime television commentator (“Washington Week in Review”
on PBS), Gridiron Club panjandrum (largely responsible for the
musical spoofs presented at that august organization’s annual
black-tie banquet for the President and other high government
targets), National Headline Award winner, and (hardly least)
superlative raconteur. WerL invited him to be the kickoff speaker
for this spring’s anniversary class reunion weekend, and these are
some of his racontings.

Thank you. Great heavens.

It occurs to me that the thing to do maybe is to talk about
something that most of us in this room have in common, which is
this University. But lest I get into some deep dark thing about the
liberal arts or the Lee tradition or something which I don’t want to
do, I thought I'd talk about it from the point of view of just one
person. And the only point of view I’ve got is mine.

I'd planned to start humbly. I was going to explain that I grew
up from age 6 months or a year right behind this Chapel, down in
the place called Harmony Hollow. This has been sort of part of
my front yard all my life. And to show how humble and plain the
whole speech was going to be I was going to talk about a tree I
know very, very well, which for my lifetime has been located right

 

   

: :

President and Mrs. Huntley are amused.

  

 

Charley (Footnote) McDowell

off the front corner of the Chapel. I remember when it was
planted. That tree was going to be the foundation of my entire
speech tonight. And as my mother and I walked up tonight, being
a newspaper reporter and all, I looked around the corner just to
make sure my tree was still there. it isn’t. It died last year and it’s
gone. But I’m going to pretend it didn't.

I don't know why, but that tree somehow symbolized this
University for me. I remember, when I was a small boy, there
were great diggings right up on that front corner and there was
planted the very large tree some noble donor had given. The
word was passed through the community that it was the only
copper beech tree in Virginia. The only one. That impressed me
tremendously. It was the only one, and that made us feel good.
The University of Virginia didn’t have one.

About three or four days later, I was in the Co-op, and there
was this marvelous, irascible man named Laird Thompson, and I
heard him telling some football players, “You know that big tree
down at the Chapel,” and all these football players were nodding,
and he said, “It’s the only copper beech tree in the eastern United
States.” Well, I was in the Corner Store about a week later and I
heard my hero Cy Young expounding to a large group of students,
and he was saying, “only copper beech tree on the North
American continent.”

That copper beech tree is a sort of parallel. And I want no
symbolic note taken that it is gone.

W&L people like to have things in common, and sometimes it
helps us to soup them up a bit. I’m sure everyone is aware that we
have on this campus one of the most beautifully qualified man-
made wonders in America: we have the longest concrete non-
suspension footbridge in the world. And that has just pleased me
my whole life. Ifanyone ever asks me about W&L, I don’t say that
Washington gave it some money and Lee carried it on and Bob

D

 

 

MEMOIRS OF A FOOTNOTE

Huntley made it great. I say, “You know we have got the longest
concrete non-suspension footbridge in the world. The statue on
top of Washington Hall is the only wooden statue of George
Washington more than six feet tall that exists.” People take that for
a kind of humility. When the archaeologists come into this Valley
and work that statue over they ll find that every other layer of paint
is white. The others are red or yellow.

When this place gets filled with snow, they scrape it, and ice
forms and you get a ski run from the front of Washington Hall
down to this Chapel and then you have to make a right turn that
your average Lexington, Virginia, skier on Sears Roebuck skis
with no proper fittings doesn’t know how to make, and then you go
down the long run and cut through the parking lot and you can end
up pretty well into Red Square. I skied down that slope in my
youth, and when I was very small, I didn’t make that turn
properly and skied right down the Chapel steps, and claim now in
the best Lexington tradition to be the only person that ever did ski
down them.

I began coming into this Chapel when I was 4 or 5 years old. I'd
come to visit the skeleton of Traveller. Your average kid, of course,
is not reverent toward skeletons. Put that down. I would come to
look at it because it was a marvelous skeleton and I knew that if you
looked very closely you could see the initials of football players you
remembered. We also, as everybody here knows, Im sure,
brought down from the biology lab a very small horse skeleton, and
students, irreverent students paid some small wage to show
visitors through the Chapel, would point to the two skeletons and
say, “Now that, of course, is the skeleton of Lee’s faithful horse
Traveller, and the small one is Traveller when he was just a colt.”
It’s mildly disillusioning when you consider that about four-fifths of
the tourists nodded and accepted it.

Outside the Chapel here, kind of on the sidewalk, worked a
friend of mine named Herb The Dog Man. Herb The Dog Man
was very smart. He commuted between the Corner Store where
he loafed, and up around Main Street where he had friends, and
this campus on the weekends when girls were here. He sold dogs,
pups, always very small. He was an ingratiating person, and he
would see some W&L guy walking some girl from Hollins or
Sweet Briar and he would show them these pups and tell the
student he ought to buy the pup for the girl. And the pups were
cute, and it trapped the guy. So Herb sold a lot of pups. Questions
would arise, and the boy would say, “Well, now, wait a minute
there, Herb, you said that’s a purebred dog.” And Herb would
say, It certainly is, it’s a purebred foxhound—a foxhound, that’s
what it is.” And the guy would say, “How do I know that?” And
Herb would always say, “Look at the freckles on his belly, that’s a
foxhound if I ever saw one.” If there was any question about
anything about the dog the answer was always the same. Look at
the freckles on it, and that settled it.

Herb lived near a Lexington landmark called The House The
Trucks Hit, the house down beyond the V.M.I. passover toward

6

 

Herb The Dog Man and purebred foxhound

East Lexington where the highway turns very sharply, and the
large tractor trailers that used to roll through Lexington with
ba:ely a pause—we were a no-stoplight town in those days—used
to hit that house. There were people in town who kept count, and
by the time J left W&L it had been hit 17 times. Cy Young would
have told you 16. Laird Thompson would say 17—they’d bet. But
they were very close.

I have been in the audience in this room maybe 150 times. I
was trying to think of great speeches. I heard Dr. Gaines speak
here 50 times, 44 of them the same speech. I liked it every time. It
was a good speech.

I came here once, brought by my parents when I was fairly
young to hear Robert Frost read poetry. It was an awesome
experience. I didn’t know his work too well, but I guess in school I
had been subjected to a poem or two, and here he was, a majestic
man, and the Chapel was jammed. But after a while it became
apparent the program wasn’t about to start. There was fidgeting
and people pacing and nodding and talking. Finally someone
came down the aisle and I heard him say he won’t go on until we
get him a glass of water. It seemed like somewhere in the whole
University could be found a glass of water, but no glass of water
was produced. Twenty-five minutes, and W&L was about to lose
its address by this great American. Finally, though, somebody, I
think it may have been Dr. Bean, arrived with a glass of water.
Maybe he went all the way home down to Harmony Hollow and
brought it; I don’t know. But Robert Frost read his poems at last,
and he was good.

He didn’t ever touch his water.

The next time I saw Robert Frost was when I was grown up
and he was reading his poem at John F. Kennedy’s inauguration.
And that was when I learned why he wanted water. The rostrum
at the inauguration caught fire.

 

 

Larry Watkin, noted writer of limericks, from the ’38 Calyx

I don't know whether anyone realizes that our neighbor
Charlie Light could sing music-hall songs and do little tap dances.
His other claim to fame, that just awed me as a youngster, was that
he had been to V.M.I. I didn’t know that if you’d been to V.M.I.
you ever got to take those suits off. Charlie Light taught me how to
tell time. I don't know that that matters to anyone in the world, but
I appreciated it.

The Deshas had three beautiful daughters, which improved
our neighborhood tremendously. I was very impressed by Dr.
Desha. He was a man who had written a book and I had seen it
because my mother typed it. I had seen the typescript in our own
house, his book on our table. That’s awesome—just awesome. I
liked Mrs. Desha too because she was kind to small boys—an
imperial lady who was kind to small boys. And that mattered.

Mrs. Moffatt lived in Harmony Hollow too, the head of the

United Daughters of the Confederacy, which in this town was
formidable. She was also an actress with the Troubadours. The
Troubadours were headed by one of the most creative and funny
men who ever lived, Larry Watkin. The fact that Larry Watkin and
Mrs. Moffatt shared the Troubadours and that Larry Watkin and
Dr. Moffatt were on the English faculty together was about the end
of the things Larry Watkin and Mrs. Moffatt had in common. They
did not have the U.D.C. in common.

Larry Watkin wrote a limerick. It was the first limerick I ever
learned, and I can’t think of a better place to tell it than to a
sympathetic group. The limerick about these two people I love
very much, Mrs. Moffatt and Larry Watkin, says:

Lila Nance Moffatt sat on a toffet

Praising the U.D.C.

So busy thinkin’
How stinkin’ was Lincoln
She forgot about Robert E. Lee.

 

Longest concrete non-suspension footbridge in the world

On the top of the Corner Store was a whole floor of athletes.
On the second floor was the pool parlor that for a considerable
period was owned by a very large man named Jabo, who had one
of the finest intellects in this town. And on the first floor was the
Corner Store itself. The Corner Store was owned by Cap’n Dick
Smith and maybe some friends. In the earlier days it had a huge
blackboard where scores were put up as they came in, jokes were
written, requests for rides to Lynchburg, the whole business. If
Lexington and W&L had a center, it was the Corner Store. It was
a remarkable place. I’m not so sure it wasn’t a sort of seminar that
has never quite been equaled. I started going there with my
father when I was 7 or 8 and I haven't ever stopped going back.
Billy Hinton worked there as a student. He used to race me
around the block when I was 7 years old and gave me a half-a-
block head start. My father spent a little piece of nearly every
evening there. Hig Williams was there. (I don’t know why this
bounds into mind, but Hig Williams had a marvelous way of
sounding objective until the end of a sentence. He would say
“Herbert Hoover was a great engineer, a great humanitarian and
generally a fine man. His only problem was that he was a damn
fool.”) Ollie Crenshaw was there at the Corner Store, Ollie who
wrote the history of W&L, one of the most marvelous wits I have
ever known. Larry Watkin was there, who everybody knows went
on to write a great novel and leave W&L to write in California,
which he still does. Tom Riegel, Raymond Johnson, Rowland
Nelson, Charlie Light, Laird Thompson, Cy Young—basketball
players, townspeople, everyone would mingle there at all times.

All this talk about colleges, about whether students get to talk
with professors, has always seemed eerie to me. I have seen them
sit there in the Corner Store and drink beer and argue into the
night with each other, all mixed together—which is what
mattered. And the subjects of those discussions there when I was
a 7-year-old listening, or when I was a 20-year-old participating,
were sports and politics and arts and literature and theatre and

7

 

 

MEMOIRS OF A FOOTNOTE

very intellectual British jokes and sonnets and poetry. Back and
forth in the Corner Store.

It’s where I learned you aren’t a sissy to care about the theatre
or art. It’s where I learned that an English professor telling a
story about how it was at Oxford can absolutely silence four
tackles from the football team and interest them and intrigue
them. It’s where I began to see the breadth and knowledge of
these people—the breadth of what they knew and what they
cared about. That they were experts and that there was a
humility—that was the last part you got to, but it was there too.
You began to see their pride in each other as they argued. You
began to see how they shared their stories and arguments and
humor. And I think maybe it was in the Corner Store listening to
that mix that I began to get some notion of what this place is all
about.

The old law building up at the top of the hill—a bad building;
those of you who are a little older rememeber that it was not at all
like the Colonnade. It was stone and looked like a very large wart.
It burned in the 1930s. It burned thoroughly, and I can remember
being waked by my mother or father and being taken through a
window of our house and put on the roof in a blanket so I could

watch the glorious sight of that law building burning to the ground.

Syd Lewis had the first long hair in America on a grown
athlete. His hair was bushy and he had a sort of lumpy way of
playing basketball. He was a good basketball player, about the
fifth or sixth man on the team. He was Dick Pinck’s friend. Dick
Pinck was not only a great athlete, the smoothest guard that ever
played basketball, but he was also handsome, and he was trim,
and he had style. He was debonair. He had a blonde girl and a
blond car. I was impressed by both. Syd Lewis would drive the
car. Dick would be out on the football field being put through
terrible paces by Tex Tilson and other friends of mine, and here
would come Syd with his hair blowing out in the wind and the
blonde girl in the blond car. Pinck would finish up with practice,
and everyone else would trot across that longest concrete non-
suspension footbridge in the world to get dressed up in the gym,
but Pinck would come over and Syd would move back and Pinck
would drive the blond car out through the woods. It always
seemed to me that that was my brush with the makings of a novel.
I thought that’s what novels were about—the marvelous athlete
with the good and trusty friend and the blonde girl and the car.
The novel is in the library. It was written by Millard Lampell and
it’s called The Hero. I guess the point I’m making is that W&L is
the kind of place where the fifth or sixth man on the basketball

team gives you a new law school. That’s nice.

Cy Young was a 16-letter athlete who could learn anything. He
took up golf when he was an old man just to show he could do it and
he won the Virginia State Senior Championship. His speeches at
rallies were classics, as anyone who ever heard one knows. They
were wild, screaming fits. They were marvelous. They were all
just for our benefit and he meant them no more deeply than

8

 

Cy Young looses his frenzied “Beat the Wahoos” battle-cry.

Everett Dirksen meant most of what he said. Cy was to me the
closest thing to a sort of poet and genius that we ever had around.

. .» Lewis Johnson in full cry. I heard every one of his lectures
and never took a course from him.

... Tom Wolfe, who invented a kind of journalism I’m not too

clear about, but, Lord, the writing’s good. Incredibly good.

Incidentally, one of my first acts as a rising newspaperman was to
reject the first three things Tom Wolfe ever turned into the Ring-
tum Phi. I also rejected the first piece Harrison Kenney ever
submitted to the Southern Collegian. So he sold the piece to the
New Yorker. Harold Ross was able to abide it.

This is very elemental stuff. But I have a feeling it means a
lot—the enthusiasm of W&L’s people, an enthusiasm that grows,
I think, out of curiosity and an argumentative kind of tolerance
and a pride in one another, and a zest not only for life but also
maybe for some learning, a zest for the values and ideas and
notions that make it all mean something. I think we have a sense
around W&L that our tradition has a lot of crucial elements in it.
They include George Washington and Robert E. Lee and a bunch
of Scotch-Irish two centuries or so ago who thought education
mattered. I think it includes Herb The Dog Man and the Corner
Store and the longest concrete non-suspension footbridge in the
world. I think Cy Young comes pretty close to being the right

symbol for all of it. When he turned red in the face and waved his

arms and led us in the W¢7L Swing, he knew, and we knew, and he
knew we knew, that we weren't just singing about beating some
nice college. When he turned red and sang that song and
everybody joined him, Cy knew he and we were singing about
something very important, and very profound, and very dear in
the lives of all of us.

ROBERT G. BROWN PROFESSORSHIP

Dallas Couple Endows Chair in the C-School; Dr. L. K. Johnson is Honored

_A Dallas oil executive and his wife,
Robert G. and Judy Brown, have
established an endowed professorship in
the School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics.

Their gift of $500,000 was announced
by W&L President Robert E. R. Huntley
during Brown’s 30th anniversary class
reunion in May.

Endowed professorships are estab-
lished through permanent endowment
gifts of $500,000 or more. Brown
is the first W&L alumnus to create
an endowed professorship by an outright
gift during his lifetime.

Brown is chairman of the board and
director of Universal Resources Corp. of
Dallas, an American Stock Exchange-listed
oil and gas exploration firm. He is also a
trustee of the Eisenhower Medical Center
of Palm Desert, Calif.

The Board of Trustees, in customary
manner, will designate the teacher who
will hold the Brown Professorship jin the

commerce division. f

As part of the May 12 announcement,
however, Dr. Lewis Kerr Johnson, retired
professor of business administration at
Washington and Lee, was designated the
Robert G. Brown Professor of Adminis-
tration, Emeritus.

Dr. Johnson—in recognition of whose
40-year teaching career at Washington and
Lee the Browns’ gift was made—is one of
W&L's best-known and most widely
admired professors as well as a nationally
known authority in management in his
own right.

Dr. Johnson began his teaching career
at Washington and Lee in 1933 and retired
in 1973. He and his wife, Peggy, attended
the 1949 class reunion banquet.

When he retired from teaching six
years ago, his former students surprised
him by creating a $25,000 scholarship
endowment in his name, the income from
which is awarded annually to a student or
students who share his views of
professional compassion for employees and
colleagues and his carefully articulated
views on marketing, corporate
administrative policy, and the other
components of the successfully managed
business.

 

Top: Dr. and Mrs. Lewis K. Johnson with Mr.
and Mrs. Robert G. Brown, donors of an endowed
professorship.

Middle: Dr. Johnson is applauded upon his
designation as the Robert G. Brown Professor
of Administration, Emeritus.

Left: Bob Brown exchanges greetings with Dr.
E. C. Griffith, professor of
economics.

 

 

Reunion
Weekend
Activities
In
Pictures

 

Handshakes and broad smiles abounded during reunion weekend.

Oe oe

 

Rain fell and a tent went up to shelter cocktail and buffet party. George McClure, ’34, came up from Dallas.

 

Joe Wilson, ‘69, brought along son Add, ’99. W. C. Williams models beanie at 1954 class banquet.

10

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

Some took time out to read the alumni magazine.

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

Members of the Class of 1929 returning for their 50th reunion were (seated left to right) Benjamin C. Eastwood, Irwin T. Sanders, Alfred Boyd Jr., Robert B.
: Lee, Adrian L. McCardell, Earl A. Fitzpatrick, Dave S. Jones, Harry B. Fozzard, Benjamin P. Knight Jr., Royal B. Embree; (standing) John B. Towill, E.
Ballou Bagby, Robert W. Pharr, O. Norris Smith, Arthur D. Simmons, Richard D. Carver, William G. Sargent, William F. Chandler, T. Graham Gibson,
Edward H. Ould, William A. McDonough and Henry P. Johnston.

 

 

Il

 

 

 

Steve Elkins, ’74L, and Joel Kocen, ’59A, ’61L.

 

oe
ee eeeOthtt:

ng Colonnade.

 

Marc Schewel, ’69, with classmate at cocktail party.

A group of young alumni discuss their tour of the new library.

 

 

Ee carers

ADMINISTRATIVE CHANGE

Whitehead to Focus on Board, Development, Art; Epley to Become Treasurer

James W. Whitehead, University
treasurer since 1966 and secretary of the
Board of Trustees since 1968, will leave his
financial management duties Jan. 1 to
devote increased attention to his Board
duties and to expanded responsibilities for
University development activities together
with his curatorship of W&L’s nationally
important art collections.

E. Stewart Epley of Stephentown,
N.Y., a 1949 Phi Beta Kappa graduate in
accounting who was formerly chief
financial analyst for a $1-billion series of
college building programs in New York
State, will join the University
administration July 1 as assistant to
Whitehead with the expectation that he
will succeed Whitehead as treasurer six
-months later.

Since 1974, Epley has been a
Development Staff Associate and has
worked full time in that capacity sirice
1977. Development Staff Associates
represent the University in a widefrange of
operations, primarily in fund-raising with
additional responsibilities in alumni
relations and admissions, in various areas
of the country where Washington and Lee
has particular historical strength. Epley’s
region has included most of the northeast,
from New York, New Jersey, and
Pennsylvania through all of New England.

For 13 years he was an associate in the
international management consulting firm
of McKinsey & Co., was an associate and
later a manager of Price, Waterhouse &
Co., and worked previously in other
international, government, and private
non-profit firms.

He has been director, treasurer and
chief administrative officer of Knight,
Gladieux & Smith of New York and for two
years was also vice president of Small
Business Investment Co. on Wall Street.

Whitehead will assume substantially
enlarged duties as W&L’s Board secretary
under the new arrangement. He
succeeded Robert E. R. Huntley in that
capacity when the latter was elected
president 11 years ago. Shortly afterward,
the W&L Board was substantially
reorganized, and the new, more active
Board has long required more extensive
liaison with the on-campus University

 

James W. Whitehead

E. Stewart Epley

administration, President Huntley said.
That need has become particularly
apparent, Huntley said in the course of the
two-part $62-million Development
Program begun in 1972 with a target date
for completion of 1981.
Whitehead joined the W&L

 

administration in 1958 as director of
University relations and administrative
assistant to then-President Francis
Pendleton Gaines and subsequently to
Gaines’ successor, Fred C. Cole. In 1966
he succeeded the late Earl S. Mattingly as
treasurer.

When he became treasurer, Washing-
ton and Lee’s annual operating budget was
$3,550,687. This year, the budget is
$10,075,646.

Beyond the vastly increased annual
operating budgets, the treasurer's office
since 1972 has had responsibility for
financial oversight of several multi-million-

dollar major capital construction projects,

the first of their kind at Washington and
Lee since the 1950s—the $3.25-million
gymnasium renovation and addition; Lewis
Hall, W&L’s $8-million law building, and
the $9-million undergraduate library
building, all now completed, and, still
underway, the $3.25-million renovation of
old McCormick to become the new home
of the School of Commerce, Economics
and Politics.

The year Whitehead became treasurer,
the endowment for which he had primary
day-to-day policy-making responsibility
was $11.9 million and endowment income
was less than half-a-million dollars.

This year the endowment is double
that figure, $23.5 million, and endowment
income is almost $1.1 million.

Whitehead was educated at the
University of Tampa (Fla.), where he was
director of public relations for five years.
For the next five years he was finance
director for the National Conference of
Christians and Jews, and from 1955 to
1958 was executive director of the Empire
State Foundation of Independent Liberal
Arts Colleges in New York, an agency
similar to the 12-member Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges, of
which Washington and Lee was a
founding member in 1953.

Almost as soon as he became treasurer,
Washington and Lee received two related
collections of art objects that were, in
time, to become of exceptional importance
in the academic and art worlds, almost
solely through the efforts of Whitehead
and his wife, Celeste—the 2,000-piece

13

 

& GAZETTE

Reeves Collection of Chinese export
porcelain and nearly a hundred
undiscovered, almost discarded paintings
by Louise Herreshoff, a turn-of-the-
century artist who, as a consequence of
Whitehead’s research, now ranks among
the premiére talents of American
expressionist art.

Euchlin Reeves, for whom the
porcelain collection is named, was a 1927
Washington and Lee law graduate. Louise
Herreshoff became his wife in 1941, 14
years after she had abruptly ended her
career as an artist.

Since Whitehead’s interest in the two
collections began to develop, they have
achieved international prominence.
Together and separately, they have been
shown in 63 of the nation’s most prominent
galleries.

He has also been intensely interested
for many years in restoring and promoting
Washington and Lee’s priceless collection
of portraits, mostly from the 18th century,
originally owned by George Washington
and his family. The collection includes the
famed painting by Charles Willson Peale
of Washington, the first painting ever
made of Washington from life, the
companion portrait of the Marquis de
Lafayette, also painted by Peale, and
numerous others which hang in Lee
Chapel and now constitute Washington
and Lee’s most valuable and historically
important portrait collection.

“Jim Whitehead’s management of
Washington and Lee’s financial resources
has simply been phenomenally successful,”
President Huntley commented. “I may
add that the Board of Trustees is in
complete and enthusiastic agreement with
that observation.

“The manner and seeming ease with
which he has executed his increasingly
formidable duties is astonishing—even by
the standards which we at W&L like to
apply to our people.

“That he has done this and at the same
time led us to a position of pre-eminence
in fields of art and culture are almost
beyond the powers of the rest of us to
comprehend. I know that I, for one, have
never met or heard of anyone who could
do either, much less both together, with
such notable success and grace.

“With Stew Epley now joining us—as
formidable a talent as I expect we might
find in financial management—and with
Jim Whitehead eager to meet the need
both he and all of us have recognized for

14

some years for more specific direction in
Board management, and able too to pay
even more of the necessary, critically useful
attention to our historic national art
collections, we find ourselves, as it seems
Washington and Lee just about always
does, in a position of uncanny good
fortune.”

Whitehead received an honorary
doctorate from Tampa, and in 1976 he and
his wife received the Lynchburg Citation,
the highest distinction any Washington
and Lee alumni chapter can confer, for
“signal contributions to the enrichment of
life throughout the University community
in sensing opportunities for developing
unique new dimensions of fiduciary
feasance [i.e., creating unusual ways of
enhancing W&L’s treasury] through the
symbiosis of finance and fine arts.”

Among the achievements recognized
by that citation was the arrangement
Whitehead developed with Wamsutta
Mills, the textile manufacturer, which
reproduced portions of three Reeves
Collection patterns on textiles for
commercial sale—with a royalty coming to
the University’s unrestricted operating
budget. One of the patterns, Blue
Butterfly, became the seventh-best selling
pattern in the United States. Chosen for
use in the White House, it brought more
than $100,000 to Washington and Lee in
royalties.

Whitehead is one of only three persons
ever to have been honored twice by the
student newspaper with its Ring-tum Phi
Award—for the second time this spring,
but initially in 1975 when he was
characterized by the students as “financial
wizard par excellence, imaginative baron
of the porcelain and portrait tours, king of
the blue butterflies, and, most important,
friend to every one of us at Washington
and Lee.”

Pate is named
top admissions aide

Van Haigler Pate, director of financial
aid at Washington and Lee for the past six
years and assistant admissions director for
two years prior to that, will become
associate admissions director this summer.

Pate fills a newly created number-two
position on the W&L admissions staff
under the reorganization begun last year,
according to William M. Hartog, director
of admissions.

 

Van H. Pate

Pate is a 1971 W&L graduate and has
been assistant professor of French in
addition to his financial aid duties.

In the new position of associate _
admissions director, he will be principally
involved in representing Washington and
Lee on visits to secondary schools,
reviewing and evaluating admissions
applications, and generally developing and
carrying out admissions and student-
recruitment policies at the University,
Hartog said.

Student body president
receives Gilliam Award

Waller T. (Beau) Dudley of Alexandria,
president of the student body, received
the University’s highest student honor, the
Frank Johnson Gilliam Award, at the
traditional senior-class banquet this spring.

The Gilliam Award is presented
annually to the graduating student who has
made the most valuable and conspicuous
set of contributions to life at W&L. The
recipient is selected by non-graduating
student government representatives.

Dudley received his law degree from
W&L in May. He is also a 1974 B.A.
graduate of the University.

He was captain of W&L’s moot court
team and was a co-winner of the law
school’s Burks Moot Court Competition.

He is also a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa, the national collegiate leadership

 

 

 

 

they oppose it this year.

In 1976 the W&L Board voted to
remain all-male at the undergraduate
level, following a two-year study of the
effects of coeducation at other colleges
similar to Washington and Lee. The W&L
law school, the University’s only graduate
division, has been coeducational for seven
years.

Almand Coleman will return
as visiting lecturer in *79-’80

Almand R. Coleman, one of the
nation’s foremost professors of business
administration for 40 years, will rejoin the
W&L faculty next year as distinguished
lecturer in accounting.

Coleman earned two bachelor’s
degrees at Washington and Lee and
received an honorary degree from W&L

 

William J. Watt, dean of The College, presents Gilliam Award to Beau Dudley. two years ago. He was professor of
accounting at W&L from 1939 until 1954.
society founded at W&L in 1914. During the 1970s, W&L under- He held the endowed Charles C.
When he was elected last spring, it was graduates have wavered in their __ Abbott professorship in business
only the second time in 15 years a law view of whether the University should administration at the University of
student had captured the student body’s become fully coeducational. In 1972, bya _ Virginia’s Colgate Darden Graduate School
top office. | 3-to-2 margin, they defeated a resolution of Business Administration for 11 years
The Gilliam Award won by Dudley is which would have called on the W&L until retiring in 1976. In 1978 U.Va.
named for Washington and Lee’s-Dean Board of Trustees to order coeducation. established the Almand R. Coleman Chair
and Admissions Director for almost 40 But a year later, by exactly the same in business administration in the Darden
years—who was described by the Richmond _ margin, the students passed the same School.
Times-Dispatch at the time of his death in _ resolution. Since 1976 he has been visiting
1976 as “a legend” and “the absolute In 1978, 56 percent of the under- professor of business administration at
antithesis” of “impersonal” assembly-line graduates participating in a coeduca- Tennessee Tech, with primary
education, “quite a man [whose] credo of __ tion poll said they favored it—almost responsibility for establishing an M.B.A.
personalized education is a tradition that the exact percentage by which they said graduate-degree program there.

W&L should strive to carry on—and that
others should strive to adopt.”

 

Coed poll see-saw;
This year’s verdict is no

A majority of W&L students who
participated in a poll are opposed to
coeducation, the Ring-tum Phi reported
this spring.

About 30 percent of the University’s
freshmen, sophomores and juniors took
part in the questionnaire survey. That
level of response is typical for attitude
surveys at W&L.

Of the participating students, 57
percent answered “no” to the question

“Should W&L become coeducational?” at : =e ; i |
Slightly more than a third, 35 percent, said Honored by the University s Board of Trustees recently were Dr. and Mrs. William Grover Jr. of
“yes.” § ee Richmond (second and third from right), who donated a collection of important pieces of European
eg ee aes porcelain to Washington and Lee. Dr. Grover is a’39 graduate. At right is their son, Peter, a’73
expressed no opinion. graduate. At left are Mr. and Mrs. James Bland Martin of Gloucester. Mrs. Martin is a WUL Trustee.

15

Ee carerve

Almand R. Coleman

Coleman received his M.B.A. degree
from Harvard University and was visiting
professor of accounting there for the 1954-
55 academic year. He is a certified public
accountant.

 

 

Three seniors are awarded
study-abroad fellowships

Fulbright Grants for postgraduate
study in Europe have been awarded to two
1979 Washington and Lee graduates, and a
third has won a Luce Scholarship for study
in the Far East.

Named Fulbright Scholars were
Michael F. Follo of Gadsden, Ala., and
William M. Webster IV of
Greenville, S.C. Both will use their
Fulbrights for study in West Germany
next year.

Michael F. Wenke of Glendolen, Pa.,
is W&L’s Luce Scholar—the second W&L
has had since the Henry A. Luce
Foundation’s selective Asian studies
program was established five years ago.
Only 15 Luce Scholars are chosen a year.

Follo was graduated summa cum laude
with honors in geology this spring.
Webster received his B.A., also summa
cum laude, with majors in both English
and German. (Graduation itself will be
covered in the next issue of the alumni
magazine.) Both Follo and Webster are
members of Phi Beta Kappa.

Follo plans to study geological

16

    
   

 

    
   

Portrait of Dr. Desha is Unveiled

 

A portrait of Dr. Lucius Junius Desha was unveiled recently at a banquet given by the Board of
Trustees. Representing the family was Angelica Didier Lloyd, Dr. Desha’s granddaughter, and a ’°75
law graduate of WL.

|

Members of the Desha family were pleased by the painting by Scaisbrook Abbott of Lynchburg. Dr.
Desha taught chemistry at W&L from 1920 to 1955, was dean of the University after World War II,
and directed WL’s own Bicentennial observance. The portrait hangs in Washington Hall.

degree magna cum laude in psychology.
The Luce program is unique in that it is
open only to students whose
undergraduate major was not Asian
studies. The fellowship carries a stipend in
addition to travel expenses. W&L is one of
60 colleges in the country selected by the
Luce Foundation (created in 1936 by the
co-founder of Time and Life magazines) to
participate in the annual Luce Fellowship
competition.

formations and sedimentary rock
composition in the Swiss Alps while at the
University of Freiburg next year.

Webster will study at the University of
Regensburg, north of Munich. His
Fulbright project will be a comparison of
the work of William Blake, the English
poet and engraver, with that of Klemens
Brentano, the German writer.

Wenke—captain of W&L’s basketball
team this past year—received his B.A.

 

 

 

SLE AIEEE TEN SE ERIS
Awards are presented
at All-Sports Barbecue

Participants in Washington and Lee’s
13 intercollegiate sports teams gathered on
May 22 to celebrate the conclusion of the
1978-79 season with a barbecue and
awards ceremony. The event took place at
the University’s Wilson Field.

Six of the 13 teams completed their
seasons with winning records—basketball
17-10, golf 14-2, lacrosse 9-4, track & field
7-2, water polo 11-9, and wrestling 6-5;
three achieved national rankings—golf
(11th), lacrosse (12th), and tennis (tied for
fourth); and two—wrestling and tennis—
won championships in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference (ODAC), successfully
defending their 1977-78 titles. (Gary
Franke, coach of the wrestling and tennis
teams, was named ODAC Coach of the
Year in each sport—the first time that a
conference coach has won the award the
same year in two sports.)

This year The Preston R. Brown
Memorial Award, given to W&L’s most
valuable senior athlete for overall’ —
performance and athletic proficiency
during his college career, was presented to
two star athletes, David E. Leunig and
Richard B. Wiles. The award is the highest
honor a W&L athlete may receive.

Leunig is a four-year letter winner in
basketball and golf. He ranks tenth on the
W&L basketball all-time career points list
with 1,005 points. He is this year’s
recipient of the Coaches and Captains
award, and ODAC Golfer of the Year, a
title he also earned in 1977. He received
the Felix Smart MVP award last year and
has been named all-conference three
times. He is from Louisville, Ky.

Wiles is a four letterman in football and
baseball. He was this year’s first team
football All-ODAC choice as a wide
receiver, and recipient of a NCAA post-
graduate scholarship.

Wiles has been co-captain of the
baseball team for two years, and received
this year the Coaches Baseball trophy,
given in recognition of unselfish dedication
and contribution to the baseball program.
He is from Danville, Va.

The Wink Glasgow Spirit and
Sportsmanship Award was awarded to
George A. Berry of Charlotte, N.C. The
award has been given annually since 1958
to the W&L senior who has demonstrated

 

Richard B. Wiles

 

George A. Berry

the highest qualities of true W&L spirit
and sportsmanship in his career. Berry was
a tri-captain of this year’s football team.

The Outstanding Freshman Athlete
Award was presented to Michael J.
Pressler of Wilton, Conn. The award,
established in 1960, honors the freshman
athlete who shows the most athletic ability
through his participation in one or more
sports. Pressler played middle guard in
football and was an attackman on W&L’s
lacrosse team.

Five W&L athletes received All-
American honors in 1978-79, three of them
as first team choices. They are Carl Folcik,
who received honorable mention in
football; Gerry Barousse, golf; Stewart
Jackson, tennis (he finished among the top
eight singles players in the national
championships); and Chip Hoke and Drew

 

 

 

Michael J. Pressler

Pillsbury, for swimming.

Also announced at the banquet were
this year’s most valuable players: Thad
Ellis, baseball; Carby Hoy, basketball;
Richard Bird, cross-country; Stewart
Atkinson, football (offensive); Carl Folcik,
football (defensive); Dave Leunig and
Gerry Barousse, golf; Bob Clements,
lacrosse; Bryan Williams, soccer; Keith
Romich, swimming and water polo;
Stewart Jackson, tennis; Jack Norbert,
track & field; and Ed Rodgers, wrestling.

Sports publications which received
recognition this year were the soccer
brochure, wrestling brochure, and tennis
brochure, all of which were voted “Best in
the Nation” in Division III by the College
Sports Information Directors of America.
The football game programs received
second-place honors.

17

 

THE REAL FATHER OF RADIO

Marconi? Don't Believe It! Herewith the Strange Saga of Mahlon Loomis, D.D.S.

Every schoolchild knows that radio was
“invented by an Italian named Guglielmo
Marconi, right? It’s there in black-and-
white in the World Almanac, isn’t it, and
haven't there been government postage
stamps saying as much, and what could be
proof more positive than that?

There's a spot of a problem, though,
with the conventional wisdom. The fact,
you see, is that radio was invented—that is
to say: intelligible electromagnetic
impulses were transmitted from one place
to another place without benefit of
connecting wires—considerably before
Marconi was even born.

The true story has been there in the
records, in archives here and there, in
scattered bits and pieces, for more than a
hundred years. But until now it just never
all got pieced together. And in instances
like that, legends conjure themselves up,
and everyone knows that fanciful stories
die hard or not at all, like the one
Mencken started about Millard Fillmore’s
installing the first bathtub in the White
House. “Tain't so, McGee, but you can’t
stop people from thinking so anyway.

Make no mistake about it; Marconi’s
contributions to the development of
practical radio technology were
monumental, and he deserves all the
postage stamps and all the entries in all the
almanacs. .

But he didn’t invent radio. He brought
it up, but he wasn’t its father. He was its
nanny.

Almost nobody has heard of a dentist
named Mahlon Loomis; he’s never been
commemorated on a postage stamp, and if
you want to see a memorial to him you
have to pull off Virginia State Route 7 east
of Berryville and read one of those little
roadside markers.

But the fact of the matter is, it was
Mahlon Loomis, D.D.S., who sent those
very first wireless signals, from Mount
Marshall not far from Front Royal, all of 20
miles to Bear's Mountain Den between
Leesburg and Winchester in Loudoun
County, on a clear, cool October day in
1868. Marconi was minus 6 years old at
the time.

Loomis used a vertical antenna, a high-
frequency detector, something called a

18

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Drawings from Loomis’s 1854 patent for a new
method of making false teeth

 

 

 

 

 

c’ me

 

 

A Loomis drawing from his 1881 patent on a convertible valise

spark-gap transmitter—and
electromagnetic waves.

Dr. Mahlon Loomis had in fact
invented broadcasting.

And that—as Mahlon Loomis’s
pioneering experimentation enables
Walter Cronkite to aver each evening a
hundred and eleven years later—that is
the way it really is.

The saga is told in the new issue of
Iron Worker, an excellent, but
undeservedly obscure, quarterly journal
published by the Lynchburg (Va.)
Foundry, devoted largely to details and

  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

BOG

e ene ae

Wag Me ee ogee

   

 

sidelights of Virginia history.

The article is by R. H. MacDonald, a
veteran broadcaster himself and now
professor and head of the Department of
Journalism and Communications at
Washington and Lee University. It’s the
result of several years’ research and an
obsession of modest proportion to set the
record straight that MacDonald has never
quite been able to overcome.

Mahlon Loomis’s “inventive mind
never stayed quiet long,” MacDonald
observes with understatement. Early in his
career he developed a new kind of

 

 

Cokoeton Insunlin Va. -
Sfur of 1 lax vEidge

ramet ot ack

ctonely fart of the way ,

 

 

148 anche Aare

Vv + « ‘

gicand as wt - ying 49% Att Gy 2

w s Ae m

Bg a if ‘ a

£ bra. Te ow aor bf OF Siar mak Af4 | "
Gk -

nn anil
eer

 

Fi I. he io
Cote. w/ EEA YR V a.

Ofiar of Ale Boag,

* +

Sint Chena by hruat ekeg sath "he feces oe Lit sG@Long by edsadng eit
a Arck wnat imal’ coAfer eel’ ahlachid te

: = . ’ °
- Zz, 7 en fa fre fect lastong AG
/ ° 4."

 

 

A Loomis sketch showing telegraphic signals being sent between two kites.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A sketch showing some of Loomis’s equipment for
sending Morse code.

Loomis's inventive mind was never still for long;
he even devised a collar-cuff stay.

 

Washington and Lee’s Ron MacDonald,
chronicler of the Loomis story, has been hither
and thither himself too. He began his career in
radio at Boston (Mass.) University. Subsequently
he went a little way north, to Waterbury, Vt.,
but eventually meandered south and went to
work for WDBJ-TV News in Roanoke, and was
news director there when he was appointed to
the Journalism faculty at Washington and Lee in
1969. To be fair to MacDonald, his article in
Iron Worker is a serious, scrupulously
researched and meticulously documented work
of first-rate scholarship. The present
embellishments and irreverencies are chargeable
solely to Bob Keefe, who, alas, may soon be
available for new employment.

 

porcelain compound for the manufacture of
false teeth. In 1881 he received a patent
for a combination briefcase and miniature
Morris chair that you took along on the
train and it converted into a desk.

That, though, came after he had
succeeded in developing the principle of
radio communication and making it work.
He formed a company, but his luck was
like Joe Bptfslk’s in the old Li’l Abner
strip. His first investors lost everything in
1869's Black Friday market crash. A couple
of years later the Chicago fire wiped out
his second set of backers’ assets. “Finally,
the company was put to rest forever by the
Wall Street panic of 1873.”

Loomis lived just about everywhere at
one point or another. He was born in
upstate New York and grew up in what
today is considered suburban Washington,
D.C. He learned dentistry in Cleveland,
practiced for a time in New York, then
soon afterwards moved to Massachusetts.
In the 1870s he lived near Lynchburg,
where, incidentally, he invented a collar-
cuff stay. Chicago was the site of the series
of collapses of his financial ventures. (None
of this is to suggest that he was a drifter, of
course. After all, Loomis was an inventor
and possessed an education. So let it be
said simply that he was eccentric and very,
very mobile.)

He died in 1886 (and, peripatetic to the
end, was buried in West Virginia). It was
nine years later that Marconi received his
patent for a system of transmitting radio
signals.

In 1922 Literary Digest, then
preeminent in its field but today, come to
think of it, of memory only slightly more
blessed than Mahlon Loomis’s, noted with
a touch of sadness that “plaudits are
reserved for the man who succeeds in
making the principle or method or
mechanism known to the world, rather
than for the original investigator. So there
is not the slightest probability that the
name of Mahlon Loomis will ever supplant
that of Marconi as ‘the father of the
radio. ”

But Iron Worker has lasted longer than
Literary Digest, and so, as a matter of fact,
has Ron MacDonald. There may be hope
yet.

19

Mie.

CHAPTER NEWS

CHATTANOOGA. An enthusiastic group
of alumni gathered for cocktails and dinner
in the Century Room of the Coo Choo Read
House on March 28 to greet William M.
Hartog, Washington and Lee’s admissions
director. Hartog gave a short speech
during which he explained the new
“marketing” techniques being used by the
admissions office and urged alumni
support to help make them work. Also in
attendance were Milburn K. Noell, ’51,
who spoke briefly on the progress of the
Phase II development campaign; William
C. Washburn, ‘40, alumni secretary, and
Crews Townsend, an incoming freshman
from Baylor School in Jackson, Tenn.
Alexis Tarumianz Jr., 69, 72L, chapter
president, presided over the meeting.

BIRMINGHAM. The chapter's annual
banquet took place on March 29 at The
Club on Red Mountain. The dinner was
preceded by a “Happy Hour.” David R.
Pittman, 75, chapter president,
introduced several prospective freshmen
from the Birmingham area, along with
their parents. The speaker for the evening
was William M. Hartog, W&L admissions
director. Hartog discussed the present and
future plans for student recruitment at
Washington and Lee. Also attending the
banquet were John H. Scruggs, ’77,
chairman of the alumni admissions
program in Birmingham, and William C.
Washburn, 40, alumni secretary.

PITTSBURGH. The chapter gave a
reception on April 5 at the Press Club in
downtown Pittsburgh. Special guests of
the chapter were Rody Halcomb and
Gordon Fisher, two incoming freshmen,
and their parents. William M. Hartog,
Washington and Lee’s admissions director,
and E. Stewart Epley, 49, W&L
development staff associate for the
northeastern United States, also were in
attendance.

ROANOKE. A luncheon for chapter
members took place at the Shenandoah
Club on April 11. Guest speaker for the
occasion was Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr.,
W&L economics professor. Phillips
discussed federal regulations affecting

20

 
  

CHATTANOOGA—Gerry |
Stephens, °50, (right) gives ©
directions to brothers Edward S.
Brown Jr., '40, and Wesley G.
Brown, 51.

 

  
 
  
 

ROANOKE—New officers of the
chapter are James W. Jennings Jr.
65, 72L, vice president; James M

Turner Jr., 67, 71L, president,
and E. Bruce Wilsie Jr., 72,
secretary-treasurer.

industry, particularly the utilities.
Following the address, chapter members
elected officers for the next year. Elected
were James M. Turner Jr., 67, ‘71L,
president; James W. Jennings Jr., ‘65,
"72L, vice president; and E. Bruce Wilsie
Jr., 72, secretary-treasurer. Leroy C.
(Buddy) Atkins, 68, assistant alumni
secretary, John W. Duckworth, ’71,
development staff associate, and William

_ SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—
At the meeting on March 22
(reported in the April issue) are
David Geer, 65; Ellis M. John-

_ ston II, 68, and Mrs. Geer.

C. Washburn, '40, alumni secretary, also
attended the meeting.

BLUE RIDGE. The chapter met for
cocktails and dinner on April 18 at the
Boar's Head Sports Club near
Charlottesville. Dr. Edgar Shannon, ’39, a
chapter member, University Trustee, and
former president of the University of
Virginia, introduced the speaker for the

BLUE RIDGE—At the Boar’s
Head Sports Club are Bill
Wilkerson, 69, and Rob Vaughan,
66.

 

DELMARVA—At Chestertown,
Md., meeting are Mrs. Cornbrooks
with husband Ernest I. Corn-
brooks III, ’67, chapter president;
host Alex Rasin, 65, and hostess
Mrs. Rasin.

L r

evening, University President Robert E.
R. Huntley. President Huntley spoke
about the positive contributions of the
Board of Trustees, the faculty, the
students and the alumni in perpetuating
the unique qualities and educational
excellence of Washington and Lee. Special
guests of the chapter were Mrs. Isabel
Hoxie Middleton of Charlottesville, and
Mrs. Huntley. H. Dan Winter III, ’69,

 

 

| BLUE RIDGE—Also at the Char-
| lottesville gathering are Thomas E.
Bruce, 40, and Tim Echols, ’41.

 

DELMARVA—Also enjoying the
gathering after WeL’s lacrosse
victory over Washington College
are Fred Paone, 72, and Joe
Wich, 69.

chapter president, discussed plans for
future chapter activities. John Little, ’73,
chapter treasurer, organized the event.

NEW YORK. The chapter’s annual
coaches night dinner took place at Charley
O’s in Manhattan on April 5. Gary R.
Fallon, associate professor of physical
education and Washington and Lee’s
football coach, spoke about the positive

gains made by the Generals in the past
season and about his plans and progress in
working to build the W&L football
program into a regular contender and
winner in NCAA Division III competition.
Special guest of the chapter was Walter E.
Michaels, 51, head coach of the New York
Jets. John M. Ellis, 56, chapter president,
presided over the occasion.

NEW ENGLAND. A reception for area
alumni took place at the Dedham Country
and Polo Club on April 25. Several
prospective freshmen from the area and
their parents also attended. Special guest
of the chapter was James D. Farrar, ’49,
coordinator of the alumni-admissions
program. Arrangements were made by E.
Stewart Epley, 49, Northeast
development staff associate, Charles W.
Pride, 72, chapter president, Stephen T.
Hibbard, 65, and Ronald N. Stetler, ’71.

CENTRAL CONNECTICUT AREA.

More than 60 area alumni and their guests
gathered for a reception at the Hartford
Club on April 26—the first alumni event in
Hartford in 30 years. Several prospective
freshmen from the area and their parents
also attended. Special guest of the chapter
was James D. Farrar, 49, coordinator of
the alumni-admissions program.
Arrangements for the event were made by
Paul G. Cavaliere, 48, E. Stewart Epley,
‘49, Northeast development staff associate,
John L. Ericson, ’33L, and Calvert
Thomas, 38, 40L, a W&L Trustee.

DELMARVA. Following Washington
and Lee’s lacrosse victory over Washington
College on April 28, a victory celebration
took place at the home of Alex Rasin, ’65,
in Chestertown, Md. In addition to the
Eastern shore alumni and guests who were
present, there were a number of loyal

W&L lacrosse fans from the Baltimore
chapter. The lacrosse team and parents of
the players were also invited. The chapter
provided a buffet supper—complete with
steamed clams, Maryland fried chicken
and plenty of beer—to welcome the
Generals. Ernest I. Cornbrooks III, ’67,
chapter president, and David R. Hackett,
‘69L, treasurer, also welcomed guests.

21

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$85.00'f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$70.00 f.0o.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Freight charges and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.

 

 

   

G. L. Campbell, ’28

1920

JUDGE EMILE B. Beatty, lawyer and judge in
Beattyville, Ky., was paid a tribute in the April
1978 issue of the Masonic Home Journal of
Kentucky, climaxing an exceedingly active
involvement in Masons for many years. Judge
Beatty was honored as senior past grand master.
Beatty entered the Masonic Order in 1916 and was
named grand master in 1943. He was the first
grand master of Kentucky to devote his entire time
to fulfilling the duties of the office. He became
senior past grand master December 16, 1974.
Beatty, as early as 1940, had received the Scottish
Rite Degrees up to and including the 32nd degree.
Judge Beatty served on the Beattyville city council
for many years. While a member of the Beattyville
Board of Education he proposed the Beattyville
grade school. He received the Outstanding Citi-
zens Award from the Kiwanis Club in 1963. He
served as chairman of the Lee County chapter of
the American Red Cross and for over 35 years
served as county chairman of the Kentucky Society
for Crippled Children and Adults. Judge Beatty is
the third member of his family to serve as attorney
general of Lee County.

1928

GABE L. CAMPBELL was recently awarded a cer-
tificate of appreciation by the San Diego (Calif.)
Council of Engineering Societies. The award
recognizes his contribution to this year’s San Diego
County's National Engineers Week (February 18-
24). The purpose of the National Engineers Week
is to familiarize the public with the work of engi-
neers and to honor outstanding members of the
profession.

1930

JAMES N. HEss is employed by Western Tem-
porary Services Inc. As a retired accounting
supervisor, Hess spends several days a week doing
personnel work for Tulox-Lumelite-Bradley Co.
He visits the company’s plants in Connecticut and
New York ensuring that employees are regularly
heard by management.

MARION H. ROBERTS retired in 1975 as manager
of cost and billing for Alabama Dry Dock and
Shipbuilding Co. He enjoys his retirement and a
life of hunting, fishing, shrimping, and looking
after five grandchildren.

CHESTER C. WINE retired this year after serving
21 years on the Texas Industrial Commission. He
served under four governors.

1931

BEVERLY J. LAMBERT JR., a retired banker of
Little Rock, Ark., has been chosen as the state
bank commissioner by Gov. Clinton. The state
bank department, a division of the state commerce
department, regulates 192 state-chartered banks,
two investment firms and three industrial loan

 

 

institutions. As bank commissioner, Lambert is
one of five members of the state board of finance,
which sets the interest rate for investing state
funds in Arkansas banks. Lambert began his
banking career at the Bank of Holly Grove and
later joined the Bank of West Memphis, where he
served as president for 15 years. He was president
of the First State Bank of Crossett for seven years
before retiring two years ago and moving to Little
Rock. He has been working as a consultant for
Powell and Satterfield, an investment banking
firm in Little Rock. Lambert is past chairman of
the state board of higher education which he has
served for 18 years. He is a past president of the
Arkansas Bankers Association; has served on
several committees of the American Bankers
Association, and is a former president of the
Crossett and West Memphis Chambers of
Commerce.

1934

JOHN H. THOMAS of Charleston, W.Va., is semi-
retired as president of the Empire Federal Savings
& Loan Association. He spends considerable time
in Delray, Fla.

1937 a

STANLEY BARROWS continues to teach the history
of architecture and history of decorative arts in the
department of interior and architectural design at
the University of the State of New York in New
York City. He expects to conduct a short course in
Palladian and other Venetian villas for members of
the American Society of Interior Designers in
June 1979.

1938

THE REv. ARTHUR L. BICE retired in September
1977 after serving as rector of Emmanuel
Episcopal Church in Little Falls, N.Y., for 21
years. He was made rector emeritus and a
reception in his honor was given by the vestry.

Jay H. REID Jr. continues as director of
information for the International Monetary Fund,
headquartered in Washington, D.C. He has been
with IMF since 1948 and has done extensive
traveling.

1939

ARCH H. TuRPIN retired Dec. 1, 1978, and now
resides in Stuart, Fla. He enjoys golf several times
each week and recently returned from a
Caribbean cruise.

1940

DONALD T. BURTON retired in 1975 after 20 years
with Kendall Co., a division of Bauer Black. Since
1975 he has been selling for a sporting goods
distributor through South Florida.

1941

Dr. ROBERT E. LEE of Pensacola, Fla., recently

   

E. O. Moore. 45

returned from Egypt where he attended a 10 day
seminar on the Great Pyramid.

1942
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT L. PINCK, a
daughter, Giséle, on April 17, 1979. Pinck is
chairman of the department of radiology at the
Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn.

1944

JoHN G. Fox is an executive with American
Telephone and Telegraph in Washington, D.C.
His son, David, is serving in the West Virginia
Legislature.

1945

ELLIS O. Moore has been promoted to vice
president of corporate relations for the American
Broadcasting Co. Inc. Moore, ABC's vice
president for public relations since 1972, will work
closely with the members of the senior corporate
management as well as with the heads of the
company s operating divisions. Moore entered the
broadcast public relations field in 1952 when he
joined the Press Dept. of the National
Broadcasting Company as a staff writer. He later
became NBC’s vice president for press and
publicity. From 1963 until he joined ABC in 1966
as vice president of press relations, he worked
with the public relations department of Standard
Oil Company (N.J.), now the Exxon Corp. Moore
was a newspaper reporter with the Pine Bluff,
Ark., Commercial. after serving with the Army
during World War II in the Philippine Islands and
Okinawa. He also worked as a reporter for the
Commercial Appeal in Memphis, Tenn. from 1947
to 1952. He was awarded a National Headliners
Award in 1950.

KENNETH G. PULLER is manager of the mid-
Atlantic area of Coca-Cola USA. He and his wife,
Martha, reside in Arnold, Md.

CHARLES ROWE, editor of the Free-Lance Star in
Fredericksburg, Va., is one of three new members
elected to the 12-member board of directors of the
American Society of Newspaper Editors.

1947

CHARLES HARWOOD SHOOK, after completing his

Ph.D. in business administration (accounting) at’

Oklahoma State University and receiving his
CPA, is now with the personnel and
administration staff of Deloitte Haskins & Sells, an
international public accounting firm. Shook
resides in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

1949

JOHN H. REED JR., is an attorney in Hurricane,
W.Va. His son, John H. III is serving in the West
Virginia Legislature.

CARROLL L. THOMAS is counselor for the Virginia

Department of Correction. He is married and has
two sons.

JOHN G. Fox (See 1944.)

1950

OLIVER M. MENDELL, senior vice president of
Chemical Bank in New York City, was elected to a
second three-year term as president of the Fifth
Avenue Association, one of the best-known civic
organizations in the metropolitan area. The board
of directors of the organization is comprised of the
presidents of most of the large and nationally fam-
ous department and retail stores on Fifth Avenue.
Mendell is a trustee of the Citizen's Budget
Commission which oversees the budget for New

York City.

C. WILLIAM Pacy has been named by the mayor
of Baltimore to be president of the newly formed
Market Center Development Corp. of Baltimore.
The city corporation will develop and oversee a
revitalization program for the downtown retail
district of Baltimore.

W. B. PRuitT is a vice president of Piedmont
Engineers, Architects and_ Planners, in
Greenville, S.C. He is in charge of the structural
engineering department.

1951

JOHN F. Kay Jr., a partner in the Richmond law
firm of Mays, Valentine, Davenport & Moore, has
been named to the Virginia Board of Bar
Examiners. Kay was appointed to the board by the
Supreme Court of Virginia this past November
and will serve on the five-member panel until
1981. Kay is a past chairman of the board of
trustees of collegiate schools. He is a member of
the American Bar Association, the American
Judicature Society, the National Association of
Railroad Trial Counsel and the American College
of Trial Lawyers.

Capt. RICHARD R. MCDONALD is doing his
second tour of duty in Hawaii as staff commander
in chief, Pacific. He has just completed a tour in
the Pentagon as executive assistant to the director
of Naval intelligence.

1953

HUuGH S. GLICKSTEIN, an attorney in Hollywood,
Fla., was sworn in as Circuit Judge of the 17th
Judicial Circuit of Florida in ceremonies Apr. 30,
1979, in the Boward County Courthouse in Ft.
Lauderdale.

1954

SEDGWICH L. Moss, after many years in customer
service positions with American Airlines, has
become affiliated with Oversees Travel Agency in
Washington, D.C.

H. Riper has had a varied career

23

WILSON

 

including five years immediately following
graduation with the U.S. Navy as a Chinese
linquist. He then had 17 years in the banking
business divided between the Hartford National
Bank and the Shawmut Bank in Springfield, Mass.
He recently purchased a milling specialty business
which furnishes the fastener industry.

1955

HuGu S. GLICKSTEIN (See 1953.)

JOHN F. Kay Jr. (See 1951.)

1957

WILLIAM J. BOWERS is director of Northeastern
University s Center for Applied Social Research in
Boston. His current research project in Texas,
Georgia and Ohio supports an earlier finding in
Florida that the death penalty is not applied
equally in all murder cases and is more likely to be
applied for murdering a white than a black.
Bowers findings have been quoted recently in the
press as potential support in the last resort appeal
of a Florida death sentence to the U.S. Supreme
Court.

1958

PHILIP H. WEEKS, CLU, is now with Connecticut

General Life Insurance Company in Richmond,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH S. LEWIS, a son,
Brent Kirkwood, on Jan. 13, 1979. The family
resides in Oak Hill, W.Va.

Maj. PAUL KNox is currently assigned as alcohol
and drug control officer for the Mainz Military
Community in West Germany. He expects his
tour of duty to extend another year.

1961

Dr. JOHN G. POWELL is practicing pediatrics in
Lynchburg, Va. He is currently the president of
the Mental Health Association and chairman of the
local human rights committee of the Lynchburg
Training School and Hospital. He and his wife,
Christie, have two sons.

1962

NORMAN R. FRISBIE has been appointed to the
position of vice president of E. F. Hutton and Co.
Inc. and is working in the company’s Washington,
D.C. office. Frisbie, a former Army captain, is
active in local civic organizations and is a trustee of
Randolph-Macon Academy.

1963

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. MICHAEL D. SUSSMAN, a
daughter, Torah Elizabeth, on Aug. 1, 1978.
Sussman is an orthopedic surgeon at the

24

 

B. W. Rider, 66

Children’s Rehabilitation Center of the University
of Virginia in Charlottesville.

JOHN F. REFO is president of Hayden & Refo Inc.,
an executive search and management consulting
firm headquartered in Boston. The firm serves the
financial, educational, and medical communities
and consults on selection for senior staff and
general management positions in industry. Before
founding Hayden & Refo, John was director of
personnel for Shawmut Corp., a large regional
bank holding company.

PETER M. WEIMER is in his second year of full
operation of Weimer-Stone Realty Inc. in Chagrin
Falls, Ohio, which now has a sales staff of 18
persons. He and his wife have two daughters.

1964

PHILIP BOOTH continues to have a splendid
record with the Metropolitan Opera in New York.
He is finishing his fourth season with the
Metropolitan and this spring had his New York
City Opera début. Next season Booth expects to
take the part of Lodovico in Othello, Sparafucile
in Rigoletto, and Zuniga in Carmen.

Dr. BRUCE CHOSNEY is in the private practice of
hematology-onocology in Sacramento, Calif.

KENNETH P. LANE JR. is aftercare coordinator for
the Rockbridge Mental Health Clinic. He began
work with the clinic three years ago.

COTTON RAWLS Jr. was incorrectly identified as
Dr. Rawls in the March 1979 issue of this
magazine. Rawls is employed in the executive
headquarters of Fotomat Corp. in Stamford,
Conn.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Mark G. HAEBERLE, a
son, Will, in April 1978. Haeberle is in the private
practice of obstetrics and gynecology in Rome, Ga.

THE REV. WILFRED B. WEBB JR. is now president
of the Pinellas-Pasco Counties (Fla.) Mental
Health Board. In 1977 Webb was selected as
Outstanding Small Church Pastor of the Year. His
skills in role playing, gestalt therapy, transactional
analysis, community skills, team building, conflict
management goal setting and planning, problem
solving and decision making, make him very
qualified and helpful on the District Mental
Health Board. Webb is pastor of the Faith
Presbyterian Church in Dunedin, Fla.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. THOMAS BURTON JR., a
son, Calvin Thomas III, on Aug. 5, 1978. Burton is
a partner in the Roanoke, Va., law firm of
Wetherington, Flippen, Melchionna, Bosserman
& Burton.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GAVIN R. GARRETT, a

 

W. P. Canby, ’71

daughter, Mary Oleta, on July 30, 1978, in New
Orleans. Garrett is a reservoir engineer in the
offshore division of Shell Oil Co.

BRUCE P. COOPER is the Birmingham district
manager for the foundation division of McDowell
Contractors, a Nashville based construction
company. He resides in Morris, Ala.

RAnpy H. LEE has been named acting dean of the
School of Law at the University of North Dakota
until a new dean is named. Lee has been on the
law faculty at North Dakota since 1975.

BRUCE W. RIDER of Honeoye Falls, N.Y., will
work as a full-time volunteer during the next year
to obtain jobs for qualified blind persons in
Rochester, N.Y., corporations and government
agencies. Rider, blind for the past seven years, is
community action program manager for Xerox
Corporation's Information Systems Group. He is
one of seven Xerox employees participating in the
companys 1979 social service leave program,
which allows employees to take full-time, full-paid
leaves to pursue self-chosen social projects
working for nonprofit agencies. Rider is working
during his leave as director for employment for the
Association for the Blind of Rochester and Monroe
County Inc. Rider is a Presbyterian elder and
serves on the board of directors for the Association
for the Blind and for the Honeoye Falls Rotary
Club.

1967
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. LAURENCE FELLMAN,
a second son, Bradley Ryan, on Feb. 8, 1979, in
Dallas, Texas. Fellman is in the commercial real
estate industry, specializing in shopping center
development and leasing.

CHRISTOPHER F'. ARMSTRONG recently delivered
a paper to the Southern Sociological Society in
Atlanta. He is a sociology professor at Bloomsburg
State College and resides in Catawissa, Pa.

THOMAS J. HOLDEN III moved to Berryville, Va.,
in August 1978 to serve as minister of the
Berryville and Stone’s Chapel Presbyterian
Churches. He served seven years as minister of
the Carolina Beach (N.C.) Presbyterian Church.

Dr. FREDERIC P. SKINNER completed his
residency at the University of Kentucky Medical
Center and entered the private practice of internal
medicine in Elmira, N.Y., in July 1978. He and his
wife, Edie, have two children, Eric, age 12 and
Cary, age 7.

1968
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. ROBERT M. WEIN, a
daughter, Erin Diamond, their fifth child, on
March 19, 1979. Wein is in the private practice of
obstetrics and gynecology in Greensboro, N.C.

CRAIG H. BARLEY has returned from five years in

 

   

Brussels as data processing manager for the parts
distribution facility in Belgium of Caterpillar
Tractor Co. He earned his MBA there from an
extension of Boston University. Barley, his wife,
Gail, and sons, Matthew and Andrew, reside in
Morton, Ill.

After serving six years in the Army as a military
intelligence officer, A. BRUCE CLEVERLY joined
Gillette Co. in Boston in 1975. He is now in
marketing for Gillette as product manager for the
Atra Shaving System. Cleverly and his wife,
Jackie, reside in Hingham, Mass., with their two
daughters, Paige and Samantha.

CaPpT. PHILIP G. COTTELL JR. is resigning his
Army commission effective August 1979 to enroll
in full-time study for a doctorate in business
administration at the University of Kentucky.

Dr. F. STRAIT FAIREY JR. is in a family medical
practice in Mount Pleasant, S.C. He received his
M.D. at the Medical University of South Carolina
in 1971 and performed a three-year residency in
family practice there. Fairey and his wife,
Charlotte, have a son, Shephard, age 9 and a
daughter, McRae, age 7. os
Dr. Eric P. MANTZ completed a , surgical
residency at Tulane University in 1977 and then
served one year on the surgical staff at West
Virginia University School of Medicine. He is now
in the private practice of general and vascular
surgery in Charleston, W.Va. Mantz and his wife,
Sandi, have a son, Bryan, age 5, and an infant
daughter, Erica.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN B. ADAMS, a

daughter, Nena Bowman, on Feb. 18, 1979, in
The Plains, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Ross FORMAN III, a
daughter, Emily Thomas, on April 16, 1979.
Forman is a partner in the Birmingham, Ala., law
firm of Thomas, Taliaferro, Forman, Burr and
Murray.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLARK M. GoopwIn, a
daughter, Emily Anna-Carrie, on March 9, 1979,
in Atlanta.

JOSEPH T. CHADWICK JR. has been elected vice
president of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc., a
Baltimore-based investment research and counsel
firm. Chadwick, who specializes in tax-sheltered
retirement plans, joined the firm in 1971. Before
joining T. Rowe Price, Chadwick was employed
for two years as a trust administrator by Maryland
National Bank.

RICHARD E. KRAMER and KIRK WOODWARD
collaborated on two theater productions in New
York in the past year. In December and January,
Kramer directed and appeared in Aladdin, an
original children’s play written by Woodward. In

~ Seldomridge, ’76.

February and March, Woodward directed a
production of Macbeth in which Kramer played
the role of Malcolm. Though both old friends have
been active in New York theater since 1974, these
were their first opportunities to work together.

Gary D. SILVERFIELD has been named president
of Stokes and Silverfield Inc., a newly formed real
estate agency in Jacksonville, Fla. The agency,
combined with Jacksonville's largest home-
builder, will manage exclusively a number of
subdivisions and commercial properties.

RANDY H. LEE (See 1966.)

1970

BIRTH: MR. and Mrs. BRYAN BALDWIN, a
daughter, Kathryn Rhett, on Nov. 8, 1978, in
Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip R. FRANKSTONE,
their first child, a daughter, Susan Venable, on
Sept. 2, 1978. Frankstone practices law in Chapel
Hill, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT H. YEVICH, a
daughter, Courtney Catherine, on Dec. 18, 1978,
in Richmond.

LAWSON CANNON is attending Western States
Chiropractic College in Portland, Ore. In May
1977 he was married to Cathryn Jennings of
Carmel, Calif.

CHARLES P. COWELL III is teaching part-time at
Santa Barbara City College and will teach in the
summer session at the University of California at
Santa Barbara. Cowell is writing his dissertation in
organic chemistry and expects to receive his
doctorate this summer. He resides in Goleta,

Calif.

JACK A. KirBy's book, Estate Planner’s Kit, has
been published and marketed by the Institute for
Business Planning Inc. Kirby was panelist and
speaker on the 1976 Tax Reform Amendment and
the Revenue Act of 1978 at a Pennsylvania Bar
Institute seminar in October 1978. He is an
assistant professor of estate planning and director
of examinations in estate planning and taxation for
the American College of Certified Life Under-
writers in Bryn Mawr, Pa. Kirby teaches a course
in basic income taxation there.

ROBERT W. ROOT Jr. is doing environmental
studies on ground-water flow systems for E. I.
duPont Co. at the Savannah River Plant. He
received his M.S. degree in geology from the
University of Illinois. Root resides in Aiken, S.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CARL ADAMS III, a son,
Carl Martin, on Dec. 14, 1978, in Birmingham,

Ala.

_. ~ At the wedding of Peter Cavalier, 76, are Mrs. Mark
_. Diverio and Diverio, ’75, Mrs. Cavalier, and Gary

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN B. GANwNn, a son,
Jason Kent, on March 25, 1979. GaNun is
supervisor of group underwriting for Mutual
Benefit Life of Newark. He resides in South
Plainfield, N.J., with his wife, Cindy, and a 2-
year-old daughter.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALEXANDER M. NADING
JR., ason, Alexander Montgomery III, on March
31, 1979, in Birmingham, Ala.

WILLIAM P. CansBy has been promoted to
assistant vice president in national corporate
banking by the Trust Company Bank in Atlanta.
Canby has been with the bank since 1972 and in
the national corporate division for a year.

Harry D. LETOURNEAU has been promoted to
vice president by North Carolina National Bank in
Charlotte. LeTourneau joined NCNB in 1973 as a
credit analyst. He is a national accounts officer in
the bank’s U.S. department.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LANDON B. LANE JR., a
daughter, Logan, on Aug. 28, 1978. Lane is
director of finance and administration for the
Venture and HTB divisions of the Lane Co. Inc. in
Hickory, N.C.

Joe D. Pippin has become a partner in the law
firm of Pippin and Pippin in Norton, Va.

ROBERT B. B. SCHATZ is associated with the
litigation firm of Lawrence Ring Associates with
offices in Philadelphia and Beverly Hills, Calif.
Schatz resides in Philadelphia.

MARC JAMES SMALL is pursuing a law degree from
the Marshall-Wythe School of Law _ in
Williamsburg, Va.

1973

MARRIAGE: JOHN R. BaGBy and Adanne Pruitt
Hancock on Nov. 29, 1978, in Clark County, Ky.
Bagby practices law in Lexington, Ky.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. FOLSOM, a
daughter, Katrina Graham, on March 29, 1979, in
Columbia, S.C.

WILLIAM C. CLARK received his M.S. in French
at the University of Virginia. He has taught for the
past four years at Fork Union Military Academy,
where he is chairman of the foreign language
department and an admissions officer.

JAMES P. Di1Forio Jr. was elected vice president

and treasurer of the Union Savings Bank of New
York in January 1979.

W. PATRICK HINELY had his photographs of the
artists in the Spoleto Festival featured in an
exhibition entitled Two Worlds of Spoleto at the

25

 

Columbia Museum of Art. The exhibition opened
May 22 in Columbia, S.C.

E. BRYSON POWELL, president of Midlothian
Development Corp., has been appointed to the
board of directors of the United States Industrial
Council, a nationwide business organization based
in Nashville, Tenn.

THEODORE H. RITTER was appointed a trustee of
the Cumberland County Bar Association and a
delegate to the general council of the New Jersey
State Bar Association in June 1978. In January
1979 he was appointed assistant county prosecutor
for Cumberland County and also opened his own
general law practice in Bridgeton, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. LEE BROWN Jr., a
second son, Christopher Lee, on April 4, 1979, in
Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. REx M. LAMBIII, asecond
daughter, Katherine Caulkins, on Oct. 8, 1978.
Lamb became a partner in the Atlanta law firm of
Redfern, Butler and Morgan on Jan. 1, 1979. He
also has a daily radio program of legal advice
sponsored by the State Bar of Georgia on WGST
radio.

DavIp R. BEYER has become a corporate planning
analyst at First and Merchants National Bank in
Richmond. He had worked in F&M’s central
operations department for three years.

JOHN R. BROADWAY Jp. is staff attorney for the
Virginia Code Commission and registrar of
regulations for the Commonwealth. He served
four years in the governor's office as assistant to the
secretary of the Commonwealth.

THOMAS A. MATTESKky is a member of the news
department at WBTV in Charlotte, N.C. He had
been a reporter at WDBJ-TV in Roanoke.

1975

MARRIAGE: ROBERT A. KEATLEY and Mary
Josephine Tussing on June 2, 1978; in Des Peres,
Mo. The wedding party included Spencer
Heddens, ’75; Sam Bell, ’75; John Ratzel, 75; Tom
Ramey, 75; Mike Monahan, ’77; Mike Luttig, ’76,
and Harrison Turnbull, ’*75. Among the guests
were David Mathews, '75; John Killpack, ’75; Bill
Flesher, 76; Art Wood, "76, and Bryan Cook, ’74.
Keatley resides in Kansas City, Mo.

MARRIAGE: ROBERT M. LANDER II and Cheryl
Lynn Wood on Nov. 11, 1978, in Ferndale, Mich.
Attending the wedding were Buster Briggs, 76;
Mac McCarthy, ’76; Bill Ewing, 78; Tom Suydam,
‘75; Will Clemons, 77; Ed Wiley, 74, and Tom
Mattesky, ’74.

MARRIAGE: Davin H. SLATER and Leah
DeAnne Brown on July 1, 1978, in Tallahassee,
Fla. David Rigby, ’75, and Jay Fries, "76, were
members of the wedding. Slater is an exploration

26

geologist for Mobil Oil in New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRED K. GRANADE, a son,
Taylor Rives, on March 18, 1979, in Bay Minette,
Ala.

T. BARRY DAVIS, formerly associate publisher and
advertising director with the Washington Dossier
magazine, is employed as the Washington-
Baltimore sales manager for Media Networks Inc.
He is responsible for the new product division
which solicits advertising for Playboy, Esquire,
Sports Illustrated, Good Housekeeping, House
Beautiful, and Bazaar magazines.

MARK X. DIVERIO is with the First National Bank
of New Jersey as an investment officer and director
of shareholder relations. He was recently inducted
into the Delta Mu Delta National Honor Society in
Business Administration at Fairleigh Dickinson
University’s Graduate School of Business.

EDMOND B. Grecory III has been promoted to

audit manager with Linton, Shafer and Company,
CPA, in Frederick, Md.

Guy KERR, after passing the Texas bar exam in
November 1978, is now associated with the Dallas
firm of Locke, Purnell, Boren, Laney & Neely.

On April 18, 1979, W. JEROME KNAUER was
elected to membership in Alpha Omega Alpha,
the national medical honor society. He is a senior
at the Bowman Gray School of Medicine of Wake
Forest University. Knauer has been awarded a
house officer appointment for 1979-80 at Roanoke
Memorial Hospital in Roanoke, Va. His
postgraduate training will be in internal medicine.

RICHARD B. THOMPSON received his commission
as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force
following graduation from Officer Training School
at Lackland Air Force Base, Texas. Thompson is
now undergoing navigator training at Mather Air
Force Base, Calif.

JOSEPH E. WELDEN JR. was graduated from the
University of Alabama Medical School in May
1979 and will enter post-graduate training at the
Mayo Graduate School of Medicine in Rochester,
Minn. His specialty is internal medicine.

CAPT. JOEL A. WILLIAMS is a trial counsel in the
staff judge advocate’s office of the Third Infantry
Division in Schweinfurt, W. Germany.

ROBERT Q. WYCKOFF JR. is associated with the
West Palm Beach, Fla., law firm of Cone, Owen,
Wagner, Nugent, Johnson, Hazouri and Roth. He
specializes in personal injury litigation.

Jor D. Pippin (See 1972.)

1976

MARRIAGE: PETER R. CAVALIER and Marjorie
Elyse Raulintis on Sept. 16, 1978, in North

 

| At the wedding of Robert M. Lander II, ’75, are (left
to right) Buster Briggs, 76; Mac McCarthy, ’76; Bill
Ewing, 77; Tom Suydam, ’75; Mrs. Lander; Lander;
# Will Clemons, ’77; Ed Wiley, ’74, and Tom Mattesky, ’74.

Arlington, N.J. Among the guests were Mark
Diverio, ‘75, and Gary Seldonridge, ’76. Cavalier.
is assistant manager of the commercial credit
department of Fidelity Union Trust Co. in
Newark, N.J. He is also pursuing an MBA degree
from Fairleigh Dickinson University. The couple
resides in North Arlington, N.]J.

MARRIAGE: H. MYNDERS GLOVER and Martha
Carrington Clements on May 19, 1979, in Carson,
Va. The couple will reside in Charlottesville
where Glover is attending the Graduate School of
Business at the University of Virginia.

MARRIAGE: Scott M. STEVENSON and Hollis
Lynn Hibbert on Aug. 5, 1978, in Houston, Texas.
Classmates in the wedding were Alan Pettigrew,
Joe Walker, Lee Keiger and Paul Vavala. Also
present from W&L were Clark Thompson, 777;
John Gorden, ’78; Don MacLeod, ’78, and Peter
Hall, °78. Stevenson is a third-year law student at
Wake Forest University. He will become
associated with the Charlotte, N.C., law firm of
McConnell, Howard, Pruett and Bragg.

SCOTT AINSLIE is in New York City where he is
performing traditional music and studying shiatsu
(acurpressure massage) and Japanese as well as
other aspects of oriental diet.

S. MICHAEL MCCOLLOCH received an American
Jurisprudence Award for insurance law at St.
Mary's University School of Law in San Antonio,
Texas. He is a law intern with the U.S. attorney’s
office in San Antonio, a staff writer for the law
school’s legal research board and a dean’s list
student.

VERNON E. O’BERRY Jr. will enroll in the School
of Dentistry at the Medical College of Virginia in
August 1979. He is presently completing work on
his M.S. in biology at the University of Richmond.

DONALD C. OVERDORFF is vice president of
operations for Quaker Sales Corp. in Johnstown,
Pa.

JAMES D. PEARSON earned his MBA in May 1978
from Indiana University. He is now a banking
associate in the commercial division of
Continental Illinois Bank and Trust in Chicago.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEVEN P. BAILEY, a
daughter, Blaire Shields, on Jan. 10, 1978. Bailey
is associated with a law firm in Albuquerque, N.
Mex.

J. AUSTIN BALL is performing research in
endocrinology at the Medical University of South
Carolina in Charleston. He will enroll in the Col-
lege of Medicine this fall.

WILLIAM F. BEAUCHAMP is a management
assistant with Loyola Federal Savings and Loan in
Baltimore.

 

 

JoHN R. Downey is working as an advertising
copywriter for Thalhimers in Richmond.

BRADLEY S. ELLIOTT is working as police and
courts reporter for The News in Lynchburg, Va.
He had been police reporter for the Augusta (Ga.)
Herald.

W. SCOTT FRANKLIN is assistant manager of the
main office of First National Bank of Maryland in
Baltimore. Franklin won first place in the
American Institute of Banking public speaking
contest and competed in a regional contest in
Virginia Beach.

CrAIG F. HAMILTON graduated in December
1977 from the University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill with a bachelor’s degree in business
administration. He is working in the bond
department of Florida First National Bank in
Jacksonville.

B. CARL HARNISCH has resigned from Bunge
Grain Elevator and now expects to serve as a grain
broker in San Antonio, Texas.

SHELTON B. HUNTER is in law school at Texas
Tech University. f

Mark A. KRIEGER III is working in production
planning and customer service at the’ John D.
Lucas Printing Co. in Baltimore. He is also
coaching junior league lacrosse.

sales

for

JEssE C. O'NEAL is a_ technical
representative in Winston-Salem, N.C.,
Dearborn Chemical Co.

KENNETH E. PAYNE is working for the law firm of
Eric E. Adamson, P.C., in Front Royal, Va.

SAMUEL E. THOMPSON is a sports writer for the
Savannah News.

MARK R. ULMER is a second-year student at the
Cumberland School of Law in Birmingham, Ala.

DANIEL E. WESTBROOK is a second-year law
student at Washington and Lee. He is captain of
the Jessup International Moot Court team, which
won the regional trials, and competed in the
national finals in Washington. Westbrook will
clerk this summer for law firms in Dallas and
Milwaukee.

1978

MARRIAGE: Lt. JOHN S. HUDSON and Janet M.
Rakoczy on March 17, 1979, at Sweet Briar, Va.
W&L men present were John Bruton, ’79L; David
Lytle, ‘76; R. Suter Hudson, 7°53; Gary
Seldomridge, ’76, and Jim Adams, "79. The couple
resides in Hinesville, Ga., where Hudson is a
tactical intelligence officer for the 24th Infantry
Division at Fort Stewart.

ANDREW M. AIRHEART is assistant coordinator of

the First Association Club for First Tennessee
Bank in Memphis.

PARKE L. BRADLEY is director of public relations
for The Big Apple Scenic Studio Ltd, in New York.
The firm builds scenery, props, and special effects
for broadway shows, television and rock music
tours. Previously he worked for Robert F. Jani
Productions as a talent coordinator and production
assistant. They produced half-time shows for the
1979 Orange Bowl and Super Bowl XIII in
conjunction with NBC Sports.

COURTNEY C. BROOKS JR. is a first-year student at
the Medical College of Georgia in Augusta.

GEORGE L. CARSON Jr. is a_ territory
representative in the greater Philadelphia area for
the Walker Manufacturing Co. He resides in
Cherry Hill, N.J.

DANIEL C. COFFEY is an office manager trainee
for W. W. Coffey and Son Inc., general
contractors in Lexington.

BEN I. JOHNS is the tennis teaching professional at
the University Club in Memphis, Tenn.
the

GERALD L. MAATMAN Jr. received

At the wedding of John Hudson, ’78; are (front row)
John Bruton, ’79L; David Lytle, ’76; Mrs. Hudson, and
Hudson; (back row) R. Suter Hudson, ’53; Gary Seldom-

ridge, 76, and Jim Adams, ’79.

Outstanding Solon E. Summerfield Scholar
Award at the 59th national meeting of Phi Kappa
Psi fraternity on Aug. 11, 1978, in Kansas City.
Representing the W&L chapter of Phi Kappa Psi,
Maatman was chosen for the $2,000 stipend from
the 98 nominees representing each chapter of the
national fraternity. Maatman used the award along
with the NCAA Post-Graduate Scholarship he
won at W&L to complete his first year of law
school at Northwestern University. The award is
based on _ leadership, scholarship, and
participation in collegiate affairs. Maatman will
clerk this summer for a law firm in Chesapeake,
Va. He was W&Ls first NCAA All-American
golfer in 1977 and 1978. He finished 34th in the
1978 Illinois State Open tournament.

ROBERT J. MARVIN JR. has completed training and

is now working as a computer programmer for
[BM in Kingston, N.Y.

JAY D. SHAFFER is a field engineer for
Schlumberger Well Services working in the oil
and gas fields of southern Louisiana. He resides in
Lafayette, La.

RAND D. WEINBERG will enter law school at
Washington and Lee this fall.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1913

HERBERT TYLER TAYLOR, a former public ac-
countant with the firm of A. M. Pullen & Co. in
Richmond, Va., died March 7, 1979, at the Pres-
byterian Home of South Carolina in Summerville.
He was a veteran of World War I, a Mason and a
Shriner.

1916

JOSE CAMINERO, former ambassador extraordinary
and plenipotentiary of Cuba to Nicaragua (1953-
57); Columbia (1957-58); Peru (1958-59); civil en-
gineer, writer, journalist, and diplomat, died Nov.
10, 1977. Caminero, a native of Havana, Cuba,
was educated in Cuban schools before attending
Washington and Lee. He also attended Villanova
College. He was the winner of the Rodrigo de
Xerez literary prize in 1946. Caminero was a
columnist for the newspapers Diario de la Marina,
Advance, and El Mundo, all of Havana before
Castro. He was a Cuban delegate to several inter-
national conferences and, while serving as presi-
dent of the Cuban Red Cross, was delegate to the
International Red Cross Conference in Toronto in
1952 where he served as chairman. Caminero was
obliged to leave Cuba and become a resident of the
United States in 1959. He lived for several years in
Florida but moved in the early 1970's to West New

York, N.J., where he died.

1919

NELSON LAURIE BROWN of Natural Bridge, a
retired dairyman, died April 10, 1979, at the
Veterans Administration Hospital in Salem, Va.
Before becoming a Rockbridge County farmer and
dairyman, Brown was associated with the Cold
Springs Cooperative Creamery in Roanoke. He
was a member of the Falling Springs Presbyterian
Church for 35 years and was, for many years,
superintendent of the Sunday school. Brown was a
member of several civic clubs including the
Lexington Rotary Club, the Natural Bridge
Ruritan Club, the Knights of Pythias, and the
Natural Bridge Lions Club.

1921

SAMUEL EDWIN BAYLOR, who was a farmer and
cattleman in Cedar Bluff, Va., for many years,
died Oct. 12, 1978. Baylor also was active in a
general merchandise store and in the business of
curing hams. He was owner of a business, The
Wardell Store and The Wardell Farm.

1924

JAMES BAIN PRICE, who has been retired from the

27

IN MEMORIAM

hardware and oil leasing business for many years,
died March 5, 1979, in Beaumont, Texas. He was
closely identified with early Beaumont history.
Gladys City, now restored, was named for his
mother.

EDWARD BENSON WOODBERY, a former vice
president and trust officer of the Quincy State
Bank in Quincy, Fla., died Nov. 29, 1978.
Woodbery was on the board of directors of the
Quincy State Bank as well as the Northwest
Florida Banking Corp. He was active in the Boy
Scouts and in the local United Fund.

1927

Joy Y. MCCANDLESS, a retired district sales
manager with Babcock & Wilcox Co., died Jan. 13,
1979, in Vero Beach, Fla. After graduation from
W&L, McCandless was a teacher and also coached
high school football and basketball in Beaver Falls,
Pa. He joined Babcock & Wilcox in 1937. In 1970
he retired to his home in Vero Beach.

1928

G. OLDHAM CLARKE, a Louisville, Ky., attorney
and civic leader, died March 7, 1979. Clarke was a
practicing attorney with the law firm of Stites,
McElwain and Fowler, active in the Democratic
State Central Executive Committee and a former
commissioner for Jefferson County. Between
1935 and 1937, Clarke was assistant U.S. Attorney
in Louisville and was county judge pro tem in the
early 1950s. He was a past president of the
Louisville and Kentucky Bar Associations, the
YMCA and the Kentucky Easter Seal Society.

1930

JAMES LEWIS CURRIE, a prominent farmer in
Crawfordsville, Ark., died Feb. 28, 1979.

Dr. CARL EVERETT LORENZ, a prominent
ophthalmologist in Plymouth Meeting, Pa., died
March 21, 1979. Lorenz held the rank of
commander and served as medical officer in the
United States Navy Reserve.

1931

EDWARD CuRTIS NICHOLS, a resident of Jackson,

Miss., died April 18, 1979. Though a native of .

Huntsville, Ala., Nichols had lived in Jackson
since early childhood. He was a veteran of World
War II serving as an Army major in the European
Theatre. He was a former member of the Rotary
Club of Jackson. Before his retirement he was co-
owner of Nichols & Garland, Food Brokers, and
had served as president of the Jackson Food
Association.

THOMAS ELDRIDGE MEARS JR., a resident of
Portales, N. Mex., died Nov. 1, 1978. Mears had
practiced law in Portales for many years.

1935

CLARENCE OGDEN CARMAN died Oct. 3, 1978, in
Beckley, W.Va. Carman was an instructor and
superintendent for Eastern Associated Coal Corp.
at the Stotesbury mining operation for 30 years
prior to his retirement. He was instrumental in
introducing long-wall mining and conventional

 

Sie

FEE

Dick Pinck from the ’41 Calyx.

 

 

THE HERO

Richard Harold Pinck, Class of 1941, one of
Washington and Lee’s foremost star athletes,
died on April 4, 1979, in Passaic, N.J. While at
W&L, Pinck excelled in football, basketball,
and tennis. Indeed, he was an all-round athlete
who had quick hands and quick legs and could
play any sport and perform well above the
average. He compiled a glittering record as an
athlete in preparatory school before he came to
W&L. He was recognized as an outstanding
natural athlete in Paterson, N.J., and he wona
scholarship to The Hun School, where he made
all-state in both football and basketball. Pinck’s
career attracted the attention of Millard Lam-
pell, then a budding novelist, who used him as
a model for the protagonist in The Hero, the
theme of which was that youthful athletic fame
is comet-like and transitory. The novel was later
made into a movie, Saturday’s Hero, by
Columbia Pictures. After graduation, Pinck
went into the real estate business and, in his
later years, was connected with the Automobile
Association of New Jersey. He won many prizes
for salesmanship.

 

 

28

roof support in the United States. While at W&L,
he was a member of the 1934 Southern
Conference championship football team. He was a
member of the Ancient Free and Accepted
Masons, a 32nd Degree Mason and a member of
the Beni Kedem Temple.

STANLEY ARMSTRONG TWEDDLE died April 14,
1979. Tweddle was a retired employee of James
Lees and Sons of Glasgow, Va., which is now a
division of Burlington Industry. He had been in
service with James Lees and Sons for over 30
years. Following his retirement from business he
was employed by the U.S. Forest Service until his
death. He was a deacon in the Buena Vista Baptist
Church and served as assistant Sunday school
superintendent.

1939
RALPH D. KIRCHER JR., who joined Standard-
Vacuum Oil Co. in July 1940 and later headed its
marketing operations for Esso Standard Oil Ltd.,
died April 4, 1979, in Freeport, N.Y. He had
retired from Exxon Corp. in 1970.

Dr. ARCHIBALD PAXTON STUART, a prominent
research chemist of Sun Oil Co. for many years,
died May 21, 1977. Stuart joined Sun Oil as a
research chemist in 1941. He was appointed chief
of applied research section in 1963 and was named
assistant to the director of commercial
development in the research and engineering
departments in 1965. He became director of that
department in 1969.

1956

WALTER W. BURTON, a prominent practicing
attorney in Princeton, W.Va., died April 2, 1979.
Burton was a former director of the Mercer
County Bank, Osborne Mining Corp. of Bluefield,

W.Va., the Princeton Community Hospital
Association, and the Princeton Memorial
Hospital.

HARRISON STEELE (BUDDY) DEY Jr., of

Staunton, Va., died March 20, 1979, after a long
illness. Dey, after graduating from Washington
and Lee, served in the Army in Korea, and later
worked with the Federal Bureau of Investigation
in Washington. In 1962 he returned to Staunton
and was employed for two years with the American
Safety Razor Co. He later became a law partner in
the firm of Dey and Rhea, which later became
Baylor, Wray and Dey. He was a member of the
American, Virginia State, and Augusta County Bar
Associations. Dey was the first chairman of
Staunton’s Recreation Advisory Commission and
played a prominent role in the improvement of the
parks and recreational facilities in the community.
He was active in sports, gaining prominence as a
baseball player in the Valley League and achieving
a state and regional reputation as a tennis player.

1959

HARRISON STEELE (BUDDY) DEy JR. (See i956.)

Shenandoah

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

 

 

Waiters of this stature appear
in SHENANDOAH:
ROBERT PENN WARREN
ALLEN TATE

PETER TAYLOR
ELIZABETH BISHOP
Roy FULLER

ROBERT LOWELL
RICHARD HOWARD
REYNOLDS PRICE

W. S. MERWIN

JOYCE CAROL OATES

Two stories that appeared in
SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards
for distinguished brief fiction.

Won't you subscribe to Wash-
ington and Lee _ University's

award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and
criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
[-] One year @ $5.00

My check for $ enclosed.

[] Two years @ $8.00

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

State Zip

I go on admiring [Shenandoah], none in the

country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

I can think offhand of only two or three uni-
versity-financed reviews in which the impact
of a strong editorial personality has created a
vital magazine. The examples that come to
my mind are those of David Ray and the
strong social-radical consciousness he has
brought to the editing of New Letters for the
University of Missouri at Kansas City; of the
elegant and rather patrician standards James
Boatwright has given to Shenandoah at
Washington and Lee; and of Robin Skelton,

-who has brought such a distinctively inter-

national flavor to the Malahat Review at the

University of Victoria in British Columbia.
—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America: A Modern
Documentary History (TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

You are the best “little” magazine in the
country.
: —Allen Tate, 1970

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories. . . . Sixteen were first published in
the pages of little magazines, quarterly re-
views, irregularly issued periodicals reaching
a small, a very small, readership. (Shenan-
doah, for example, one of the best of these
magazines from which I have taken two
stories, prints approximately one thousand

copies of each quarterly issue.)
—wWilliam Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

Dr. Robert Coles, child psychiatrist and
author, is, by his own description, one of
those “Yankees who went south and fell in
love with the region.” He is a loyal subscriber
to several “good southern literary quarter-
lies”: The Sewanee Review. . . The Southern
Review . . . The Georgia Review; and Shen-

andoah.”
—“Where Opinion Makers Get Their Opinions,”
Esquire, June 5, 1979

a2

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-]ACKSON HousE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

HUNTLEY

EK

MR ROBERT
PRESIDENT

UNIVERSITY

Bk

i

VA

LEXINGTON

24450

434600

 

 

 

