 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 53, Number 5, July 1978

William C. Washburn, ’40 .................... Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............. Managing Editor
Romert 5. Keefe, 68 ...... 22... kee Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing, ’77 .............. Assistant Editor
JOvte CAGlOr 2 2) ee Editorial Assistant
Sally Neamt. 2 Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Commencement 1978 2.2..2..0..0..c..cc..csccscsessmevtncior l
Graduating Progeny of Alumni ..............:.:c0e 5
Phe Placenient Game -.2......6.6.ccccssccestssse ee 6
The Ubiquitous Swing ......ccecceescceesceeesseeeteeeseeeees 9
INSEE MS AZO oi cvsi cca cecencsivesescovessdan ees 0 11
Spring Reunions ............... ee 16
Reunions in PictUres: .........6.......5009sscpducgeonet eg 18
Phonathons: |] & I]:................cc0se1s0ss. ee 20
Annual Fund Report .......0.1..:.c:cscces5: ore eee a2
Spring Sports Roundup ...........eeceeeeeeceeeeeeneeeees 24
Chapter NeWS ..0....cccir en 27
Glass Notes .............:..ccs0:ss:eensenaste 28
In Memoriam ..............c.00000- rr 35

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee Unwersity Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpDwIN J. Fo.tz, 40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

WILLIAM P. BoaRDMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
Vice President

RICHARD A. DENNY, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DonaLp Bain, 49, Spartanburg, S. C.
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 751, Nashville, Tenn.
JouHN H. McCormack Jr., ’50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
PAUL E. SANDERS, ’43, White Plains, N. Y.

ON THE COVER: With a firm handshake, Presi-
dent Huntley bestows the Bachelor of Arts degree
upon Rodney M. Cook Jr. of Atlanta. The President
performs this ritual nearly 400 times every com-
mencement before making his annual address to
graduates and bidding them: “Goodbye, God-
speed.” The commencement story begins on the
Opposite page. Photograph by Sally Mann.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

COMMENCEMENT 1978

Degrees Conferred on 375 Men and Women; Five Receive Honorary Doctorates

Washington and Lee conferred
undergraduate and law degrees on 375
men and women and honorary
doctorates on five men in
commencement ceremonies marking the
end of its 228th academic year.

The honorary degrees were awarded
to Dr. John T. Fey, a 1939 alumnus who
is chairman of the board of The
Equitable Life Assurance Society and
former president of the Universities of
Vermont and Wyoming; Dr. Henry A.
Turner Jr., a 1954 graduate who is now

chairman of Yale University’s history
department; Robert R. Witt of San
Antonio, a Rockbridge County native
who received his W&L degree in 1913
and who was president of Builders
Supply Co. from 1929 and chairman of
the board from 1951 until retiring in
1959; M. Caldwell Butler, Republican
member of the U. S. House of
Representatives from Virginia’s Sixth
District, which includes Lexington; and
Peter H. Taylor, an award-winning
writer and professor at the University of
Virginia.

Commencement-week activities began
with the traditional baccalaureate
sermon, delivered this year by Dr.

Minor L. Rogers, associate professor of
religion at W&L, whose topic dealt with
“spiritual renewal.”

Believing that there “is an absence
today of a sense of moral clarity about
what is right and wrong; an absence of
heroes who even begin to measure up to
our ideals; a lack of ready recognition
that service to others brings joy and
peace and meaning to our lives,” Rogers
recommended that people return to the
message found in Micah 6:8, “He hath
showed thee, O man, what is good; and
what doth the Lord require of thee, but
to do justly, and love mercy, and to walk
humbly with thy Gode”

This imperative, Rogers said, is both
universal and particular, a text with the
capacity to speak to people of all faiths
in a religiously plural world.

Brig. Gen. Robert H. Forman, the
deputy commanding general at Fort

: : . Leonard Wood, Mo., and former
University Marshal Westbrook Barritt heads commencement procession. chairman of the Army Leadership

 

COMMENCEMENT 1978

Board, was the principal speaker at the
Reserve Officer Training Corps
commissioning ceremonies in Lee
Chapel. Three students received regular
army commissions and 15 received
reserve commissions during the
ceremonies. Six of the students were
designated distinguished military
graduates.

During the traditional remarks to the
graduates, President Robert E. R.
Huntley said that knowledge can give
men both freedom and power. That
knowledge, he quoted from Socrates, “is
not in the sensations but in the process
of reasoning about them, for it is
possible to apprehend being and truth
by reasoning, but not by sensation.”

Freedom and power are counterparts
of one another, Huntley said, freedom
being “the ability to think, to discern, to
evaluate, to choose,” and power is “the

Z

 

 

M. Caldwen B iher

ability to act as a result of knowledge
and reason, the ability to determine
one’s own course as a result of thought.

Harking back to the truism that
power tends to corrupt, Huntley said
“the freedom a person has as a result of
his capacity for knowledge is a burden
which he often carries badly,” but he
also said that men need not be
corrupted. “For the beauty of humanity
is this: if we have the power to lead
corrupt lives, we also have the power to
lead good lives—and most important of
all we have the power to tell the
difference.”

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Award, conferred by the faculty upon
the graduating student who has excelled
“in high ideals of living, in spiritual
qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others,” was
awarded to Richard W. Stein of

99

 

     

John Theodore Fey

Jacksonville, Fla. Stein, a cum laude
graduate who majored in both
psychology and religion, was head of the
University Federation and chairman of
the Big Brother volunteer programs and
was coordinator of a tutoring program
in the local elementary schools and of a
companion therapy program at the
Western State mental hospital in
Staunton, Va. He also worked at the
Presbyterian Children’s Home in
Lexington.

The Frank J. Gilliam Award, the chief
honor that can be conferred on a
graduating student by his peers, was
presented to George F. Griffin IV of
Rockville, Md., the vice president of the
student body during the 1977-78
academic year. He had been a student
manager in the dining hall for three
years, a junior class representative on
the Executive Committee, and a

 

Peter Taylor

sophomore representative on the
University Council.

The class valedictorian was James G.
Sheridan Jr. of Lexington, who earned a
perfect 4.0 grade-point average—only
the fifth W&L student to do so—while
majoring in both chemistry and physics.

John T. Fey entered the University of
Maryland’s law program directly from
Washington and Lee. He received his
LL.B. degree from Maryland in 1940,
the M.B.A. degree from Harvard in
1942, and the J.S.D. degree, the highest
earned degree in law, from Yale in
1952. He holds honorary doctorates
from Middlebury and Alma Colleges
and from the University of Vermont.

He was president of the University of
Vermont from 1958 to 1964 and
president of the University of Wyoming
from 1964 to 1966. Previously he had
taught law and later was dean of law at

 
   

 

Henry Ashby Turner Jr.

George Washington University. He
joined The Equitable as vice chairman
of the board in 1974, after eight years as
president of the National Life Insurance
Company of Vermont. He became
board chairman of Equitable in 1975.
Fey received the honorary Doctor of
Laws degree.

Henry A. Turner Jr. is an expert on
the history of modern Europe, and
Germany in particular. He joined the
Yale faculty in 1958 and is chairman of
the history department for the term
1976-79. He was born in Atlanta and
received his graduate degrees from
Princeton. He is the author of Stresemann
and the Politics of the Weimar Republic and
other books and articles on the political
and economic history of modern
Germany and on the comparative
aspects of European fascism.

He has been the recipient of several

 

Robert Richard Witt

grants and research fellowships,
including a Guggenheim, a Fulbright to
Germany, a German Marshall
Foundation fellowship, a Stimson
fellowship to Germany, and two grants
from the National Endowment for the
Humanities. Turner received the
honorary Doctor of Letters degree.

Robert R. Witt was born near
Lexington in 1889. At W&L he was
president of the YMCA and of the
Cotillion Club, the Final Ball and the
1913 Fancy Dress Ball. After graduation
he became a salesman for the Steves
Sash & Door Co. in Texas and later
became manager of the company’s
Corpus Christi branch.

In 1920 he opened his own business
as a broker in building materials, and a
year later merged his firm with a
faltering wholesale company, Builders
Supply, and assumed management

 

COMMENCEMENT 1978

 

Richard W. Stein, winner of the Algernon Sydney
Sullivan Award

responsibilities. He became president in
1929 and chairman in 1951. He has
been a trustee of Trinity University (San
Antonio) since 1945. That institution
awarded him an honorary doctorate in
1951. He has been a trustee of
Southwest Research Institute, a director
of the Alamo National Bank, and is
former president of the San Antonio
Rotary Club and the Chamber of
Commerce. In 1966 he was designated
San Antonio’s Outstanding Citizen of
the Year by the Exchange Club there at
its annual Golden Deeds Award
banquet. Witt received the honorary
Doctor of Laws degree.

M. Caldwell Butler was elected to
Congress in 1972 and has been reelected
every two years since. He is a member of
the House Committee on the Judiciary,
and played a prominent part in the
impeachment inquiry of then-President

4

 

James G. Sheridan Jr., valedictorian with a perfect
4.0

Nixon in 1974 as well as in confirmation
hearings for Vice Presidents-designate
Gerald Ford and Nelson Rockefeller.

Butler is the ranking Republican on
the Subcommittee on Civil and
Constitutional Rights, and in that
capacity he has been instrumental in
drafting the revised general bankruptcy
code and the special bankruptcy act
providing the mechanics for adjusting
the long-term debt of major cities such
as New York. He was active from the
outset in planning for the national
Bicentennial observance and worked
closely with John W. Warner, chairman
of the American Revolution
Bicentennial Administration and a W&L
trustee.

Butler is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate
of the University of Richmond and
received his law degree from the
University of Virginia. He was a

member of the Virginia House of
Delegates from 1962 to 1972 and was
House Minority Leader from 1966.
Before his election to Congress, he was a
partner in the Roanoke law firm of
Eggleston, Holton, Butler & Glenn. His
former law partner, A. Linwood Holton,
is a 1949 Washington and Lee graduate
and received an honorary LL.D. degree
from W&L seven years ago. Butler also
received the honorary Doctor of Laws
degree.

Peter H. Taylor, who has been called
“the American Chekhov,” has taught at
U.Va. since 1967 and is currently
Commonwealth Professor of English.
He received his B.A. degree from
Kenyon College. Before joining the
faculty at Virginia, he taught at Indiana
and Ohio State Universities, the
Universities of Chicago and North
Carolina—Greensboro, and Kenyon.

His stories appear regularly in The
New Yorker among other publications,
and this year his New Yorker story “In the
Miro District” was cited in the
presentation of the National Magazine
Award for fiction to that magazine.

Taylor is a member of the American
Academy/Institute of Arts and Letters
and of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences. He has been the recipient
of Guffenheim, Fulbright and Ford
fellowships and grants and in 1950 won
the National Academy Award for
fiction.

His books include a novel, Woman of
Means, and several collections of stories,
among them A Long Fourth and Other
Stories (1948), Happy Families are All Alike
(1959), Miss Leonora When Last Seen and
Other Stories (1964),Collected Stories of
Peter Taylor (1970), Presences (1974) and
In the Miro District (1977).

His stories have appeared in such
periodicals as The Southern Review, New
Republic, Harper’s Bazaar, Partisan Review
and Kenyon Review as well as in The New
Yorker.

The Spring 1977 issue of Shenandoah,
Washington and Lee’s literary quarterly,
was dedicated to articles about Taylor’s
writings. He received the Doctor of
Letters degree.

ALUMNI PROGENY

37 Sons and One Daughter of W&L Men Sit for Traditional Picture

Thirty-seven sons of alumni, and one daughter, received degrees from
Washington and Lee this spring. Pictured above (sons standing behind
their fathers) from left: Eugene B. Sieminski, 55, and Gregory C. Siemin-
ski; William T. Wallis III, ’50, and Michael M. Wallis; George E. Haw Jr.,
48, and George E. Haw III; William W. Burton, ’48, and William K.
Burton; Frank L. LaMotte Jr., ’42,’and Alexis B. LaMotte; Charles C.
Stieff II, °45, and Charles C. Stieff III; T. Haller Jackson Jr., ’48, and
Robert H. Jackson; James F. Coffey, ’39, and Daniel C. Coffey; Ben E.

Also receiving degrees this year, pictured with their fathers, were the
following: Joseph W. McDonald, ’23 and David G. McDonald; Wayne D.
McGrew Jr.,’52, and Ralph B. McGrew; Arthur H. Williams Jr.,’54, and
Donald L. Williams; W. Temple Webber Jr.,’54, and W. Temple Webber
III; Gus A. Fritchie Jr.,’50, and Gus A. Fritchie III; George R. Triplett,
‘61, and George R. Triplett, Jr.; Rodney M. Cook, ’46, and Rodney M.
Cook Jr.; Dallas P. Kelley Jr., 52, and Dallas P. Kelley III; Walton W.
Kingsbery Jr., +8, and James C. Kingsbery; Henry C. Clark, ’47, and

 

Grimm, ’49, and Kevin T. Grimm; Robert J. Ingram, ’51, and Robert J.
Ingram Jr.; George W. Faison, 41, and George W. Faison Jr.; J. Alvin
Philpott, °45, and Benjamin G. Philpott; Arthur A. Birney, 50, and
Arthur A. Birney Jr.; R. Suter Hudson, ’53, and John S. Hudson; Paul K.
Brock, ’54, and Paul K. Brock Jr.; S L Kopald, ’43, and Jack Kopald;
David S. Weinberg, 55, and Rand D. Weinberg; Manuel M. Weinberg,
‘31, grandfather; Ralph I. Daves, ’26, grandfather of Jack Kopald and
uncle of Rand D. Weinberg; H. Heartsill Ragon III, father deceased.

 

Henry C. Clark Jr.; Robert C. Peery, ’41, and Robert C. Peery Jr.; Charles
T. Trussell, 49, and Galen T. Trussell; Gilbert S. Meem, ’38, and Peter B.
Meem; Michael P. Crocker, ’40, and Berthenia S. Crocker; Fred L. Rush,
"48, and Fred L. Rush Jr.; Lee A. Putney, ’53, and Mark A. Putney;
Charles H. Sipple III, 53, and Charles H. Sipple IV; James W. McClintock
III, 53, and James W. McClintock IV; James G. Sheridan, ’50, and James
G. Sheridan Jr.; Jay D. Cook Jr., 43, and Jay D. Cook III.

Or

by Michael Cappeto

Director of Placement

THE PLACEMENT GAME

Do Business Majors Have a Real Advantage Over Liberal Arts Graduates?

The liberal arts have been getting a
bum rap.

There is, to be sure, no doubt about
one point: It’s easier for an
undergraduate business major to find a
job today than it is for a student who
majored in the liberal arts and sciences.

But is the business major at so
overpowering an advantage as to
warrant the exodus we see throughout
higher education today from the arts
and sciences into business?

Most studies show that arts-and-
sciences majors do, in the long run, find
fulfilling and satisfying work—despite
the typically difficult initial job search
and sometimes-unusual career patterns.

But what about the short run?

To answer this question, Washington
and Lee has undertaken studies in each
of the past two years to determine the
employment/unemployment rates
among recent liberal-arts graduates as
compared with those rates for recent
business graduates. The surveys were
taken in mid-October following

This is a revised and expanded version of an
article by Dr. Cappeto, “Liberal Arts vs.
Business Administration,” that appeared in the
Fall 1977 issue of The Journal of College
Placement. The editors of W&L are grateful to
the College Placement Council for permission
to adapt that article.

graduation in 1976 and 1977; each time,
one primary and two follow-up mailings
resulted in remarkably high returns of
84 percent and 85 percent, respectively.
One might plausibly argue that the
statistics for Washington and Lee

 

graduates don’t necessarily reflect
general patterns throughout the nation,
but they do provide some surprises and
some reassurances in light of
“conventional wisdom” about the lack of
practical usefulness of a liberal-arts
education.

Our two-year results show that on
graduation day, about 50 percent of the
members of each class who had sought
jobs had found employment. When the
figures are broken down by academic
division, however, sharp contrasts
become evident: 72 percent of business
graduates had job offers—contrasted
with 47 percent of social-science
graduates, 43 percent of graduates in
the humanities, and just 22 percent of

science majors. Based on these
graduation-day figures alone, the
business major certainly does look
attractive.

Especially at a small college such as
Washington and Lee, an important
element in the senior-year job-search
ritual is the campus grapevine.
Although students do not have precise
statistics day by day, they do know what
students in which majors are receiving
job offers—and which students are not.

Students are less aware, however, of
what happens after graduation. The
grapevine shuts down, of course, and
the job-market impressions held by the
new degree-holders are based largely on
what they had heard while school was in
session. These impressionistic views—
which receive annual reinforcement in

s
A,
\

the national news media—typically
predict doom for the liberal-arts
graduate and imply that all available
jobs will go to the business majors.

 

WHAT

A
DIFFERENCE
FOUR YEARS
CAN MAKE

6

One of the predictable results of
going to college is that a student’s career
plans as he thinks of them when he
enters are likely to undergo considerable
reformulation before he leaves.

Each year, entering freshmen at
Washington and Lee, and at several
hundred other four-year liberal-arts
colleges throughout the nation,
participate in a detailed survey prepared
and evaluated jointly by the American
Council on Education (ACE) and the
University of California at Los Angeles.
The results are tabulated individually by
college and for the national group as a
whole.

And each year, about one in three
W&L freshmen says he intends to enter

law, while one in five says business. (Last
September, 31.8 percent of W&L’s
freshmen named law; 21.6 percent
named business. Both figures are typical
for freshman classes at W&L throughout
the 1970s.)

But by graduation day, the
percentages are virtually reversed.

The third most popular career choice
among 1977 freshmen at W&L is
medicine; 12.6 percent indicated they
intend to become physicians or dentists.

Journalism was the next most
frequently named career among W&L
freshmen last fall—5.4 percent.

The figures for all four of the most
popular professions among Washington
and Lee freshmen are considerably

Placement Director Michael A. Cappeto

But the data say that it ain’t
necessarily so.

An examination of what happened to
W&L graduates in 1976 and 1977 within
five months of graduation offers a
substantially different picture. About 10
percent of the unemployed graduates

 

 

received job offers in each of the five
months—so that by October of both
years, only about 7% percent of W&L’s
graduates did not have jobs.
Furthermore, the graduation-day
discrepancies among majors became
dramatically less pronounced. Two

percent of our business majors were
unemployed; the unemployment rates
among other majors were 6 percent in
the humanities, 7 percent in the social
sciences, and 8 percent in the natural
sciences.

Of considerable importance,
furthermore, is our finding that among
those few still unemployed in October,
about three-quarters of them had only
recently begun to look for a job at all—
and the remaining quarter had not yet
initiated a job search.

 

The data clearly indicate, then, that
business graduates receive job offers
earlier than art/sciences majors and
subsequently continue to experience the
lowest incidence of unemployment.
However, the differences among
unemployment rates five months after
graduation do not seem to be significant
enough to make the business major
preferable—at least not as dramatically

 

above the nationwide averages as
reflected in the ACE—UCLA survey.

Only 6.7 percent of male freshmen at
four-year colleges throughout the
country chose law. The W&L figure is
four times higher.

Nationally, 14.5 percent of male
freshmen indicated they plan to enter
business; the W&L figure is half again
larger.

Six percent nationally chose
medicine. The Washington and Lee
figure is twice as large.

And only 1.6 percent of male
freshmen throughout the nation named
journalism. The W&L freshmen figure
is almost three-and-a-half times that.

Among Washington and Lee

freshmen, 11.6 percent said they did not
have definite career plans. Nationally
among male freshmen, that “undecided”
figure was 9.6 percent.

There are no data to explain why
Washington and Lee undergraduates
change their career objectives during
college. But by the time they graduate,
the fact is that their goals closely reflect
their father’s footsteps.

Among last fall’s freshmen at W&L,
for instance, almost half—48 percent—
are the sons of businessmen. The
fathers of 11.6 percent of the members
of the class are lawyers, and the fathers
of 10 percent are physicians or dentists.

Other data about 1977’s “typical”
W&L freshman show that the

University’s “good academic reputation”
was an overwhelmingly important
reason why he chose Washington and
Lee. That was named by 88.5 percent of
the class as a “very important” factor.
Students were allowed to designate more
than one “very important reason” for
choosing W&L, and their other reasons,
in rank order, were the advice of an
alumnus (27.7 percent), financial aid
awarded by the University (23.2
percent), Washington and Lee’s special
academic programs (14.2 percent), the
advice of a secondary-school guidance
counselor (11.7 percent), a visit with a
W&L admissions representative (10.4
percent), and the recommendation of
friends (9.6 percent).

THE PLACEMENT GAME

results from the nature of the education
itself; the liberal arts do not pretend to
prepare a student for any particular
career, while the business major is
career-specific.

But in examining yet another
variable—job satisfaction—our study
found that humanities majors enjoy the
highest degree of satisfaction (92
percent), followed by business graduates

preferable as people commonly think.
A slightly different question is that of

underemployment, as against

unemployment. It is useful to inquire

among academic divisions were found:
92 percent of business graduates said
they believed their jobs possessed career
potential, as compared with 82 percent
of the humanities graduates, 81 percent
of social-science graduates, and 73
percent of graduates in the humanities.
Thus, business graduates do seem to
have a short-range advantage in finding
career-orienzed jobs. This most likely

Kk

whether a business degree brings any
distinct advantages, in terms of short-
range underemployment, absent in a
degree in arts-and-sciences.

It is generally agreed that the careers
of college graduates are unstable during
the first few years after graduation.
Although this general conclusion is
perhaps not perfectly adaptable to the
situation of the Washington and Lee
graduate, nevertheless an analysis of
underemployment five months after
graduation is interesting and possibly
even useful.

 

MN

The W&L study revealed a
disappointing overall underemployment
rate of 31 percent. Surprisingly, natural-
science graduates experienced the
lowest underemployment rate (24
percent,) followed by business graduates
(29 percent), social-science graduates (32
percent), and humanities graduates (39
percent).

Sixteen percent of the W&L
graduates who participated in the study
said they were working in what they
considered to be temporary jobs, not
viable careers. Again, sharp contrasts

8

 

 

EMPLOYMENT

AND
GRADUATE-SCHOOL
PATTERNS

In order to serve W&L students
more effectively, the University’s
Office of Career Development and
Placement surveys each graduating
class to determine employment and
graduate-school patterns. Results of
these annual surveys are distributed
to the faculty for use in advising un-
dergraduates, and to students
themselves for use in planning their
own Careers.

Based on an 85 percent return
from members of the classes of 1976
and 1977, these patterns were
found:

Graduate school. About 40 percent
of W&L graduates entered graduate
or professional school as full-time
students. Law school represents the
most frequently chosen field, about
15 percent in each graduating class.
Medical school accounts for about 7
percent, and business school about
6 percent. Another 12 percent pur-
sue a variety of other graduate pro-
grams.

Employment. About 55 percent of
the graduating classes entered the
job market after graduation. They
pursue almost every kind of work
imaginable; the most popular ca-
reers, however, are business ad-
ministration and management,
merchandising, sales, military serv-
ice, banking and finance, and jour-
nalism.

M.A.C.

 

 

graduates (89 percent), social-science
graduates (85 percent), and natural-

science graduates (76 percent). It is
interesting and instructive to note that
humanities graduates, though they are
the ones most frequently
underemployed, have the highest
incidence of job satisfaction.

It is my conclusion, based on analysis
of all the data gathered in our two years
of studies, that the short-range
employment advantages of earning a
degree in business (as opposed to
earning a degree in the arts or natural
or social sciences) are not so great as to
warrant any automatic decision on the
part of a career-oriented student to
choose a business major solely on the
grounds of its potential practical
usefulness—especially when subjective

ft

factors, notably perceptions of
underemployment and personal
satisfaction, are weighed in the balance.

 

th

By Robert Bleakley James Jr., ’50

THE UBIQUITOUS SWING

W&L’s Fight Song Is Virtually the National Anthem of College Airs

The Washington and Lee Swing has
stood up for seven decades as the
granddaddy of them all among college
airs.

Beginning with a short-lived
misunderstanding over the true
authorship of the famous song, followed
by its being filched by dozens of other
colleges with scant regard for copyright
laws, and continuing through its use as a
campaign song in a Presidential election,
the Swing has had a history that is as
stormy as it is fascinating.

One unusual aspect of the Swing is
that it is an original product of the
college whose national stature it has
helped acclaim. While other universities
have usually adapted their words to
established tunes, the Washington and Lee
Swing struck a new note, so to say,
among college anthems because its
words and music were the product of
W&L students. y

For the record, credit for the song is
given to three Washington and Lee men,
all now deceased. The tune was first
strummed on a mandolin in a dormitory
room in 1905 by Mark Sheafe, a South
Dakota native then attending
Washington and Lee.

Without benefit of lyrics, the melody
was kept alive by the W&L Mandolin
and Guitar Club after Sheafe’s
graduation in 1906. Three years later,
Thornton W. Allen came to Washington
and Lee, heard the tune, and set it on
paper. In collaboration with Clarence A.
(Tod) Robbins, an imaginative
undergraduate from a prominent
Brooklyn family, the Swing was
published and copyrighted. Robbins
provided the words which have been
sung by generations of W&L men ever
since. Sheafe’s name was omitted and did
not appear in the copyright until 1930,

Robert B. James Jr. is the Chief Administrative
Judge of the Board of Contract Appeals for the
federal General Services Administration. More
to the point, perhaps, is that he is also one of the
most ardent Swing aficionados in all of W&L
alumnidom; at last count, he had 38 different
recorded versions of it in his collection. This
article, Judge James notes, is based in large
measure on a history of the Swing published in
the 1951 Gator Bowl Program.

Robert Bleakley James Jr. owns 38 different recorded versions of the Washington and Lee Swing.

after it was positively established that it
had been he who had conceived the
original melody a quarter of a century
earlier.

On the strength of the commercial
success of the Swing, Allen founded his
own music publishing firm in New York.
By the time of his death in 1944, it had
become the nation’s leading publisher of
college songs. Many of America’s

 

leading universities credit Allen with
composition of their official marching
and victory songs.

After leaving Lexington in 1910, Tod
Robbins set up residence on the French
Riviera and spent his life there as a
writer and sportsman. Prominent as an
author of mystery novels, one of his
books, The Unholy Three, was made into a
movie starring Lon Chaney.

9

THE UBIQUITOUS SWING

Mark Sheafe, to whom primary credit
should be given for creating the Swing,
lived a modest life in Watertown, S.D.,
where he practiced law until his death in
1949.

But the tune which the W&L trio
fashioned endures as an all-time classic
of American collegiana.

No one knows how many colleges
have adopted it as their own. In the ’30s,
it was claimed by both Tulane and
Alabama, which caused no small amount
of consternation when those two schools
met each other in football in 1931.

Today it’s played by college bands from
Arizona to Slippery Rock State. And
when freshmen arrive at W&L each fall,

 

SWINGING NUMBER ONE

It has been 20 years since
Washington and Lee University de-
emphasized intercollegiate athletics.
But the Generals are still swinging
Number One on the hit parade.

There are hundreds of college
football songs. The Irish conquered
while they sang “Cheer, cheer for
old Notre Dame.” The Yellow Jac-
kets rallied to the tune of “I’m A
Ramblin’ Wreck From _ Georgia
Tech.” “On, Wisconsin” fired the
Badgers to victory. At Yale, it was
“Boola Boola”’; at Cornell, “Far
Above Cayuga’s Waters,” and at
Princeton, “Old Nassau.”

None, however, has achieved the
popularity of the W&L song.

Composed 65 years ago, the
Washington and Lee Swing isthe most
popular football song ever written,
still played more than any other.

Excerpted with permission from an ar-
ticle by Abe Goldblatt, staff sports writer
for the Norfolk (Va.) Virginian-Pilot, in
1974. Goldblatt—who didn’t go to Wash-
ington and Lee—heard the Swing on the
radio one morning while driving to work.
“They play it nearly every day,” he mus-
ed, and he decided to investigate the
continuing popularity of the all-time col-
lege favorite.

 

 

 

10

many are startled at first to hear their
familiar high-school fight song played
and sung at their new college.

The Swing stimulates a flood of
memories whenever alumni hear it—and
they’re likely to hear it no matter where
they are in the world. One alumnus
recalls visiting a church where he heard
the Swing played as the offertory hymn
while the plate was being passed.

In 1924 the Swing was solidly

identified as the Democratic party’s
campaign song in the race for the
Presidency as they whooped it up for
John W. Davis of the Class of 92, a
former law teacher and then a member
of the Board of Trustees. In spite of the
vigorous melody and special lyrics
(supplied by the Louisiana alumni

_ chapter), the Republicans put an

Amherst man, Calvin Coolidge, in the
White House.

 

 

 

 

(4

 

When Washington and Lee’s men
fallin line, ___

Were going to win again

another time;___

For W. and L. I yell, yell,

 

yell, yell, yell, _

And for the university I yell, I
yell lke hell, So fight! fight!

fight! for ev’ry yard;
RAH! RAH! RAH!
Yes by gosh!

 

CS

More than 100 pieces of Chinese
porcelain exported to the United States
in the 18th and early-19th centuries
went on display this summer in the
Republic of China.

The exhibition marked the first time
the Chinese descendants of the early
porcelain artisans have had the
opportunity to see a comprehensive
showing of the delicate and historically
important porcelain items their
ancestors manufactured.

The pieces shown in Taiwan are from
Washington and Lee’s widely acclaimed
Reeves Collection, which consists of
2,000 items in all. Selections from the
Reeves Collection have been shown in
museums and galleries throughout the
United States for more than four years.
This summer’s visit to China marked the
first time the Collection had been
exhibited outside America.

Most of the pieces shown in Taiwan
are decorated with representations of
scenes, people and emblems of
particular significance in the formation
of the United States. Many of the pieces
show American eagles or flags.

The exhibition opened at the National
Museum of History in Taipei, Taiwan,
in mid-July. Representing the University
at the opening were President and Mrs.
Robert E. R. Huntley; University
Treasurer James W. Whitehead, curator
of the Reeves Collection, with Mrs.
Whitehead; and Prof. I-Hsiung Ju,
artust-in-residence, with Mrs. Ju. The
Huntleys visited Taiwan for the
exhibition as guests of the Chinese
education ministry. The Whiteheads
and the Jus visited through grant
support from the National Museum and
from the Pacific Cultural Foundation.

Also representing Washington and
Lee at the ceremonies marking the
opening of the Reeves Collection
exhibition were Mr. and Mrs.

H. Gordon Leggett Jr. of Lynchburg;
Mrs. Farris Hotchkiss of Lexington and
her mother, Mrs. Albert Love of
Atlanta; Dr. and Mrs. Leon F.
Sensabaugh; and Mrs. Staunton Sample
of Shreveport, La. Mr. Leggett, a 1954
W&L graduate, is a member of the

GAZETTE

W&L’s Famed Reeves Collection of Porcelain Returns to China

 

Teaboul, circa, 1800-10, decorated with a sepia
scene of Washington’s tomb, with eagle in mourning
and weeping-willow.

 

 

lag decorate this set—
a sugar bowl, plate, and a “helmet creamer,” a term
derived from its shape.

~~ Ss

Ships carrying the American f

Board of Trustees. Mrs. Hotchkiss’
husband, who was unable to make the
trip himself because of a knee injury he
sustained in a hiking accident, is director
of development. Dr. Sensabaugh is
former dean and professor of history
emeritus, and Mrs. Sensabaugh is office
manager of the University Development
Office. Mrs. Sample is the widow of a
1938 Washington and Lee alumnus and
the mother of a 1969 graduate, Wade
Sample.

While in Taipei, Whitehead delivered
two lectures at the National Museum on
the topic of the role of export porcelain
in the development of trade between
China and the United States in the years
immediately following independence.

Generally, the Chinese craftsmen—
who made the finest hard-paste
porcelain in the world at that time—
decorated items only after they received
a specific commission from a Western
merchant. A number of the pieces

 

 

 

A plate of the so-called Jesuit type, circa 1750, with
a nativity scene, thought to be inspired by
missionaries in China.

 

Shaped dinner plate owned by George Washington,
circa 1785, in the center is Fame holding the
emblem of the Society of the Cincinnati.

shown in the Taiwan exhibition thus bear
family crests or other personalized pat-
terns, such as the plate owned by George
Washington—combining the distinctive
Chinese flower-and-butterfly “Fitzhugh”
pattern on the border with the emblem
of The Society of the Cincinnati in the
center. The Cincinnati was the
organization of Revolutionary War
officers to which Washington belonged.
The china set purchased by Washington
is believed to have been among the first
to come to the United States after direct
trade between the two countries was
established following the Revolution.
Other pieces from the Reeves
Collection shown in Taiwan included
several examples of so-called “Jesuit
ware,” decorated with scenes copied by
Chinese painters from prints brought to
the Orient by Western missionaries.
The Reeves Collection was donated to
Washington and Lee in 1967 by Euchlin
Dalcho Reeves, a 1927 law graduate,

1]

Wr
Gl GAZETTE

and his wife, Louise Herreshoff Reeves
(whose paintings from early in this

_ century, also part of their gift to W&L,
have generated much attention in their
own right as the result of the touring
exhibition, “Louise Herreshoff: An
American Artist Discovered”). Mr. and
Mrs. Reeves spent their entire married
life assembling the collection.

Their emphasis was on Chinese
porcelain manufactured specially for
export to the United States, though the
Collection also contains Chinese pieces
made for export to European markets
and pieces crafted in Europe after
German alchemists discovered the secret
of making hard-paste porcelain early in
the 18th century, thus enabling them to
manufacture it successfully and compete
with the Chinese on a commercial scale.

The exhibition in Taiwan grew partly
out of the interest of the Chinese
ambassador to the United States, James
C. H. Shen, and his wife. They became
acquainted with the Reeves Collection—
the first Chinese export porcelain they
had ever seen—when it had its premiere
exhibition in Norfolk, Va., in 1974 as a
part of the American Bicentennial
observance.

Mr. and Mrs. Shen subsequently
visited Lexington to view the permanent
collection while the Bicentennial
selections were on the nationwide tour
under Smithsonian Institution
sponsorship.

Also instrumental in arranging the
Taiwan exhibition was Prof. Ju, a native
of mainland China and a leading
Chinese artist who has long been
associated with the National Museum on
‘Taiwan.

When news of the Taiwan exhibition
was announced, Ambassador Shen
remarked that “under ordinary
circumstances, sending porcelain to the
Republic of China would be like
carrying coals to Newcastle, because it
was in China that porcelain originated—
many, Many centuries ago.

“But there is an important
difference,” he said. “The pieces
Washington and Lee University is
sending from its famous Reeves
Collection are export porcelain,

12

chinaware manufactured mostly on
order in the 18th and 19th centuries.

“Most Chinese people have never
seen them before, except in foreign
museums. For this reason, the display in
Taipei has extraordinary educational
significance.”

 

Wolliam M. Hartog

Admissions Counselors and conference
chairman for that group’s annual
meeting this year.

Hartog’s appointment was announced
by Dr. Lewis G. John, dean of students.
Admissions activities at Washington and
Lee are part of that office’s
responsibilities.

A search is currently under way to fill
the newly created position of associate
admissions director, Dr. John said.

 

 

Florida man named
new W&L admissions chief

William M. Hartog, head of
admissions at Rollins College in Florida
since 1972, has been named director of
admissions at Washington and Lee.

Hartog, 31, succeeds James D. Farrar,
who had been W&L’s admissions
director for 16 years. Farrar was named
in March to organize and direct a new
program designed to involve W&L
alumni intensively in the undergraduate
recruiting and admissions process.

The new W&L admissions director is
a 1969 B.A. graduate of Rollins and
earned a master’s degree in 1972 from
its graduate school of finance and
business administration.

Widely active in professional
organizations, he is president-elect of
the Southern Association of College

Faculty promotions

Five members of the faculty have
been awarded promotions in rank,
effective Sept. 1.

Moving up to associate professor from
assistant professor are Dr. Minor L.
Rogers of the religion department; Dr.
Halford R. Ryan, W&L debate coach, of
the English department; William J.
Stearns, swimming coach, of the athletic
department; and Robert B. Youngblood
of the German department.

Promoted from instructor to assistant
professor is Dr. Harlan R. Beckley of
the religion department.

Dr. Rogers has taught at Washington
and Lee since 1972. He received his
undergraduate education at Virginia
Military Institute and holds the bachelor
of divinity degree from Virginia
Theological Seminary and the Ph.D.
from Harvard University. He was a
missionary in Japan from 1961 to 1965
and is currently an active teaching
participant in W&L’s Asian Studies
program. He was president of the
Virginia Association of Teachers of
Asian Language and Literature in 1975.

Ryan has taught at W&L since 1970.
He 1s a B.A. graduate of Wabash |
College and earned his advanced
degrees from the University of Illinois.
He is a former president of the Virginia
Forensics Association and currently edits
its newsletter. Ryan is widely active in
debate organizations and was an
organizer and director of the
Bicentennial Youth Debate program for
secondary-school students.

Stearns holds the B.S. and M.S.

i a a a

degrees from Springfield (Mass.)
College. He began teaching at
Washington and Lee in 1966. In
addition to swimming, he coaches
W&L’s newest intercollegiate sport,
water polo, and is assistant track coach.

Youngblood joined the faculty in
German in 1965. He earned his B.A.
degree in Germany at the University of
Heidelberg and his master’s degree at
San Francisco State College. He was
awarded a Fulbright summer grant for
study in Germany this year.

Beckley has taught at Washington and
Lee since 1974. He is a B.S. graduate of
the University of Illinois and received
his master’s degree in divinity and his
Ph.D. from Vanderbilt University.

 

Endowed scholarship fund
honors 1927 law alumnus

An endowed scholarship fund has
been established at Washington and Lee
in honor of a 1927 law graduate by his
brother, a 1937 B.A. graduate.

The new scholarship is named for
Robert Hancock Jones, a retired
attorney in Dallas. It was created by an
endowment gift from his brother,
George Rather Jones, also of Dallas, a
retired captain for Braniff International
Inc.

The Robert Hancock Jones
Scholarship will be awarded on the basis
of academic achievement and personal
promise, with preference given to
students from Texas and Tennessee.

Named scholarships are established at
Washington and Lee in recognition of
endowment gifts of $25,000 or more,
designated specifically for financial aid.

 

Faculty publications

Two W&L teachers, one in art and
one in psychology, have had books
published recently here and in China.

I-Hsiung Ju, artist-in-residence and
associate professor of art, is the author
of The Book of Orchid, the second in a
series of texts by him on the topic of

 

Dr. David G. Elmes

Oriental brush-painting.

Dr. David G. Elmes, professor of
psychology, is the author of Readings in
Experimental Psychology, recently
published by Rand McNally College
Publishing Co.

In addition, the National Museum of
History in Taipei, Taiwan (the Republic
of China), has just issued an anthology
containing reproductions of 26 full-color
landscapes painted by Prof. Ju. The
landscapes, which are removable from
the volume for framing, are primarily
from private collections in Virginia. Ju
has taught at Washington and Lee since
1969.

The collection of reproductions has
an introduction by Ju’s W&L colleague,
Dr. Harold C. Hill, director of the
University’s Asian Studies Program. The
book also contains a preface by Ho Hao-
tien, the director of the National
Museum. In that preface, Ho describes
Ju as “one of the few Chinese artists who
can blend the two worlds’—traditional
Oriental brush-painting and western oil
painting—“and enrich his work with
modern techniques yet remain still
essentially Oriental.” Ju’s paintings, Ho
writes, “possess the same spirit as those

 

I-Hsiung Ju

of the great masters of the past.” |

Ju’s Orchid volume follows his Book of
Bamboo. Orchid and bamboo are two of
the so-called “four horsemen” of
Chinese brush painting. The others, the
chrysanthemum and the plum, will be
the subjects of future books. The four
contain all the basic strokes used in
traditional Chinese painting.

Elmes’ new book is a companion
volume to Experimental Psychology:
Understanding Psychological Research,
written by Elmes and a 1969 W&L
graduate, H. L. Roediger III.

 

Two teachers awarded
NEH summer study grants

Drs. John C. Winfrey and Alfred G.
Fralin Jr. were recipients this summer of
two-month research grants from the
National Endowment for the
Humanities.

Winfrey, professor of economics and
author of Public Finance: Public Choice
and the Public Economy, is studying 1|7th-
century English political theory at the

13

 

he GAZETTE

University of California at Los Angeles.

Fralin, assistant professor of French,
is conducting research into the classical
tradition in European and American
drama at the University of California at
Berkeley.

Each NEH-supported seminar brings
12 college teachers in a variety of
academic fields, selected from
throughout the nation, to study a single
topic together with authorities on the
topic.

 

Turner edits two more
sets of historical letters

Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor of
American history, is the editor of two
groups of 19th-century Rockbridge-
related letters, published this spring and
summer in scholarly journals.

“The Life and Letters of Albert
Davidson” appeared in West Virginia
History, that state’s quarterly historical
review. Davidson, a graduate of
Washington College, served throughout
the Civil War and was killed by a Union
prisoner near the end of the conflict.

“The Life and Letters of James B.
Dorman” appears in Civil War History
this summer. Dorman, a graduate of
V.M.I. and later a teacher there, was a
well-known judge in Staunton and
achieved particular local prominence as
a delegate to the pre-Civil War Secession
Convention in Richmond. He was a
cousin of the Davidson family, whose
letters, including those of Albert
Davidson, Dr. Turner has been
cataloguing and editing for publication
in various journals for several years.

 

No slack summer
for W&L’s Phillips

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor
of economics, is teaching in five separate
programs and seminars this summer, is
organizing a management symposium
on utility regulation, and has re-
assumed the presidency of an
international economics honor society

14

 

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr.

upon the death of the man who

succeeded him in that office last winter.
Phillips taught courses in two Public

Utilities Executives’ programs at the

Betty Munger, the irrepressible, imaginative, and enterprising manager of the WL Bookstore

University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, in
June and July, each involving about 55
executives from across the nation. He
has taught in the Michigan program
each year since 1970.

Phillips also led seminars on “the cost
of money” in New York at a symposium
sponsored by Kidder, Peabody and Co.
and he directed another seminar on
regulation of the telecommunications
industry and the rate-setting process for
a program sponsored by Arthur Young
and Co. on behalf of RCA’s three
communications subsidiaries.

He also taught a course in the
economics of public utilities in a M.S.
program offered by Pace University of
New York on behalf of middle-
management executives of American
Telephone & Telegraph Co.

Phillips is also the organizer, planner
and moderator of an annual four-day
symposium on the topic of competition
and monopoly in the
telecommunications industry, which will
take place at the end of August. The
symposium—the sixth of its kind for
which Phillips has been responsible—is
sponsored jointly by Washington and

installed a brood of baby chicks to promote her wares this spring. As sales grew, so did the chicks, and

everybody had something to crow and cluck about.

 

x

Lee and the Chesapeake & Potomac
Telephone Cos. Approximately 18

economists from the area served by C&P

affiliate companies will take part in the
series.

Phillips became acting president of
the economics honor society, Omicron

Delta Epsilon, following the death May

23 of its new president, Dr. I. James Pikl

of the University of Wyoming. Phillips
had been president of the society in
1976 and 1977, and as immediate past

president had just become chairman of

its board of trustees, a post he will

continue to occupy in addition to his
duties as acting president.

Phillips is also the author of an article,

“The Thin Red Line: The Rights of

Regulators to Regulate vs. the Rights of
Managers to Manage,” published in the
summer issue of Bell Telephone Magazine.

 

 

Scholarship fund started in honor of Leyburn

Three former students at Yale Uni-
versity of Dr. James Graham Leyburn
have begun a scholarship fund in his
honor at Washington and Lee.

The new Leyburn Scholarship
Fund, which the donors hope will be
increased in size over the years, was
established this spring by Mowry Smith,
Alan F. Dill, and Kenneth F. Burgess
Jr., all of whom studied under Dr. Ley-
burn when he taught sociology at Yale
from 1927 to 1947.

Dr. Leyburn came to Washington
and Lee in 1947 as Dean of the Univer-
sity, a position he held for eight years,
and professor of sociology.

He retired from teaching in 1970,
the year he turned 70, and moved to
his family’s ancestral farm, Spring Hill,
near Martinsburg, W. Va., where he
continues to read in several languages,
write (scholarly works and _ personal
correspondence alike), and pursue
hobbies such as playing the piano.

Under his direction as dean, W&L’s
curriculum was extensively broadened
to give considerably more emphasis to
the humanities, an already-excellent
faculty was substantially improved, and
Washington and Lee’s reputation as an
outstanding teaching institution was
greatly increased.

At W&L—as at Yale—he quickly
developed a reputation as perhaps the
University’s premier teacher. In a
school which prides itself on small
classes and close teacher-student rela-
tionships, he found it impossible to
keep his classes small, but nevertheless
he was able to maintain the close contact
he cherished with his students.

Though he was an administrator of

Dr. James Ee Leyburn
formidable foresight and persuasive-
ness—the so-called “Leyburn Plan,” set

forth the year he arrived at Washington
and Lee, provided the pattern for most

 

of the University’s academic progress
for the next quarter-century—his first
love remained teaching. The en-
thusiasm and skill he brought to the
classroom was reflected in burgeoning
enrollments in the courses he taught
(in ancient history, Greek and Latin
classics, and social anthropology and
general sociology), and by 1955 he con-
cluded that the burdens of administra-
tive responsibility could not be balanced
effectively with his desire to teach, and
he resigned as dean to return full-time
to the classroom.

He received his bachelor’s and mas-
ter’s degrees, both in economics, from
Duke University, then took a second
master’s at Princeton, and earned the
Ph.D. in sociology from Yale in 1927.
Before joining the Yale faculty that
year, he had taught at Hollins College
and at Princeton.

“ “The Leyburn spirit,’ ” the Norfolk
Virginian-Pilot commented editorially
when he retired, “inspired a generation
of students and brought W&L to the
front rank of small men’s schools.”

In 1974, W&L awarded him an
honorary Doctor of Letters degree, and
remarked in the degree citation that
Dean Leyburn’s career had “seldom if
ever’ been matched in the University’s
history. “He enriched in countless and
immeasurable ways the academic, cul-
tural and religious life of this commun-
ity.... An inspiring teacher, active
scholar, accomplished musician, Pres-
byterian elder and leader, he embodied
in his personal as well as his profes-
sional achievements the Greek ideal of
arete—excellence and versatility in all that
is admirable.”

 

 

 

SPRING REUNIONS

Alumni Return in Large Lots; New Association Officers Are Elected

More than 250 alumni and their
guests were on campus May 12-14 for
the annual Spring Class Reunion
Weekend which included Law Day
activities, a meeting of the Alumni
Board of Directors and the annual
meeting of the Alumni Association.

The weekend brought together
members of the Academic and Law
Classes of 1928, 1938, 1953, 1963 and
1968, as well as the Old Guard, those
who were at Washington and Lee more
than 50 years ago. They participated in
a full round of reunion banquets,
cocktail parties, luncheons and a dance.

Edwin J. Foltz, 40, of Gladwyne, Pa.,
vice president for corporate relations of
Campbell Soup Co., was re-elected
president of the Alumni Board of
Directors at its spring meeting. He will
continue as president through next May.

William P. Boardman, ’63, of
Columbus, Ohio, an attorney with the
firm of Wright, Harlor, Morris &
Arnold, was elected vice president.
Another attorney, Richard Denny, ’52,
of Atlanta, was elected treasurer of the
alumni board.

At the Alumni Association meeting,
three men were named to four-year
terms on the board. They are W. Donald
Bain, 49, president of Moreland
Chemical Co., Inc., of Spartanburg,
S.C., James F. Gallivan, ’51, senior vice
president of the Commerce Union Bank
in Nashville, and John H. McCormack
Jr., 50, chairman of the board of the
Atlantic National Bank of Jacksonville.
They replace retiring members
Courtney Mauzey, ’6l, of Raleigh, N.C.,
Samuel B. Hollis, 51, of Memphis, and
M. G. (Gus) Heatwole, ’41, of
Pittsburgh, Pa.

In addition, William B. Ogilvie, ’64,
the director of managment information
at the Baylor College of Medicine in
Houston, was elected to fill the
unexpired term of Fred Fox Benton,

 

 

, No UFO this . . . it’s the high-flying blimp that announced the presence in force of the Class of ’53 at
60, also of Houston, who was elected to Spring Class Reunions. Eye-catching, don’t you think?
the University Board of Trustees last

winter. ’61L, of Manassas, Va., judge of the succeeding John A. Wolf, 69, ’72L, a
William C. Washburn and Leroy C. Prince William County General District —_ Baltimore attorney.

(Buddy) Atkins were re-elected as Court, was elected to a two-year term as The 1977-78 Alumni Fund trophies

secretary and assistant secretary of the alumni representative on the University | were presented during the annual

Alumni Association. Frank A. Hoss, ’58, | Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics, meeting.

16

 

 

 

Edwin J. Foltz, 40)
President

%
Sse

James F. Gallivan, Od

Director Director

The Washington Trophy for the largest
amount raised by an academic class
graduated in the last 50 years—to the
Class of 1940A, Thomas E. Bruce, class
agent. This is the third consecutive year
1940A has won the trophy.

The Richmond Trophy for the highest
participation by an academic class
graduated in the last 50 years—to the
Class of 1930A, Earl T. Jones, class
agent.

The Bierer Trophy for the highest
participation by an academic class
graduated in the last 10 years—to the
Class of 1971A, Henry (Skip) Nottberg,
class agent. The Class of 1971A has won
the trophy three years in a row.

The Malone Trophy for the largest
amount raised by a law class graduated
in the last 50 years—to the Class of
1940L, William F. Saunders, class agent.
(The Editor regrets to report that Mr.
Saunders died following a heart attack
on May 15.)

 

William P. Boardman, ’63
Vice President

John H. McCormack Jr., ’50

Richard A. Denny, ’52

Treasurer

 

Wilham B. Ogilvie, ’64
Director

Foltz announced at the meeting that
nominations for the Distinguished
Alumnus Award are open. The award
or awards will be presented at Founders
Day ceremonies in January. He also
reported that the University Board of
‘Trustees has asked the Alumni
Association to nominate a.candidate for
consideration by the Board for
membership. The trustees will make
their decisions some time this fall, he
sald.

Elections were also held at the Law
Council meeting, part of the annual Law
Day activities.

Walter L. Hannah, ’50L, of
Greensboro, N.C., was elected president
of the Law Council, the law school’s
equivalent of the Alumni Board of
Directors. Robert E. Stroud, 756, ’58L, of
Charlottesville, was elected vice
president and Robin P. Hartmann, ’71L,
of Dallas, was elected to the Council.

Hannah succeeded John R. Alford,

 

 

 

W. Donald Bain, ’49
Director

 

Frank A. Hoss, ’58
Athletic Representative

57, 59L, of Lynchburg, as president
and Stroud stepped into Hannah’s
position.

During the Council’s meeting, it was
decided to extend the terms of Law
Council members from three years to
four. The Council also heard reports on
the Law Center, the Law Library and
inter-school competitions in which W&L
law students participated.

Cherie Wright, executive secretary
of the Law School Association, which
is made up of dues-paying members of
the law alumni, was re-elected. She
reported the Association’s membership
had risen to an all-time high of more
than 870.

Paul J. Mishkin, the Emanuel S.
Heller Professor of Law at the
University of California at Berkeley,
gave the John Randolph Tucker
Lecture, entitled “ ‘Our Federalism’ and
the Limits of Litigation to Reform
Governmental Institutions.”

17

THE REUNION SCENE

The Cameras Were There as Returning Alumni Celebrated Togetherness

 

  

1938er Al Sherman (formerly Al Szymanski) id From the Class of 53, Albert W. Daub, Robert F. Duguay, Guy T. Stewart II, and William E. Rawlings;
classmate Brent Remsburg. they found a lot to talk about at a social hour.

 

     
 

     

At the Class of 53 banquet Robert B. Jacobi and Mr. and Mrs. Alex De Volpi Philip G. Cottell Jr., ’68, is all ears to the wisdom of Professor
were delighted to have their picture taken. Emeritus L. K. Johnson.

     

Happy to be at the °53 banquet are (immediate foreground) Spence Snedecor, Gerry Lenfest, 1968ers Richard W. Wilson and John Ward IV with

Mr. and Mrs. Clark Garrecht, and Marv Bobbitt. Welliam P. Boardman, 63, 69L, alumni director.
18

 

 

Old Guard representatives John Guerrant, 24;
Robert Bentley, ’26; Matt Jennings, 27; Adolph
Marx, ‘18; Preston Moore, ’27; Rupert Latture,
‘15; Winter Royston, '23; James Jennings, ’27;
E’'mmett Poindexter, ’20; Edgar Jackson, ’22;
George Taliaferro, 22; Harry Pfeffer, 26; Samuel
Sanderson, (22; Glenn Evins, ’20.

 

 

   

Class of 1928 (seated) Burnell B. Tips, Dr. Lester A. Brown, William C. Norman, William J. Luria, Roger J. Haller, Welton M. Garrison, John B. Ecker, Reed
Johnston, Jack 8. Hanckel; (standing) Stuard A. Wurzburger, F. Count Barclay, T. B. Bryant, Col. Julius Goldstein, Andrew W. Lindsay, Percy Cohen, Charles A.
Strahorn, John M. Yarbrough, President Huntley (guest), Harold R. Dobbs, J. W. Alderson Jr.

 

LEE

Members of the Class of 1938 and their wives (sorry, too numerous to identify).

PHONATHONS I & Il

First Alumni and Then Students Raised $60,000 for Alumni Fund

 

Jack Neill, ’38A, Group III-A vice chairman

Stewart Epley, “49A class agent

Two “phonathons” this spring, one by
students and one by alumni, were
responsible for adding more than
$60,000 to W&L’s Annual Fund.

In April, approximately 60 alumni
met at the F&M Center in Richmond for
three nights. They called more than a
thousand of their classmates and
received 443 specific pledges for the
Annual Fund, amounting to $44,296, a
new record for alumni telephone giving.

The effort was organized by L.

20

 

 

Lee Putney, 534

Rob Norfleet, 62A

Gordon Miller, ’45, a vice chairman of
the Annual Fund, who was greatly
assisted by Rob Turnbull, ’72. .

In May, a follow-up campaign began,
lasting three nights and staffed entirely
by students working from the
admissions offices at W&L. The 28
students involved raised nearly $20,000
from 218 specific pledges.

The coordinator for the student
effort was Frederick A. Brimberg, a
junior from Scarsdale, N.Y. He
recruited five students to help him, and

 

 

they each recruited other students to
work during the phonathon.

As is the case during the alumni
efforts, the caller who received the most
money or the most pledges each night
won a prize, for this occasion a W&L
beer mug.

The prize winners were Harry T.
Jones ITI, a senior, and William M.
Webster, a junior, during the first night;
E. Hubbard Kennady III, a sophomore,
who won in both categories the second

 

 

 

Fred Brimberg, ’79, coordinator

 

Tony Carli, ’80

night; and Jerry M. Baird, a senior, and
Anthony A. Carli Jr., a sophomore, on
the final night.

The other student participants were
seniors John L. Bruch III, Robert M.
Couch, Walter Granruth III, George F.
Griffin IV, Benjamin I. Johns, Philip J.
Kaplan, James S. McNider III, Marcus
M. Pennell III, and third-year law
student Robert G. Morecock.

Juniors who took part in the effort
were Andrew J. Archie, R. E. Lee

 

 

Joe Robles, ’81

George Griffin, ’78

Davies, Frank R. Ellerbe III, Douglas B.
Lane, J. Hagood S. Morrison, Stephen
D. Trigg, Peter M. Williams and
Thomas A. Wiseman III.

Sophomores Daniel J. Weeks and
John T. Woods and freshmen R.
Christopher Gammon, James G. Hurley
Jr., and Joseph Robles constituted the
rest of the group.

The money raised by the two groups
went to the Annual Fund, which this

 

 

 

year had a goal of $775,000. The fund
provides between eight and ten percent
of W&L’s annual operating budget,
accounting for approximately $450 per
student of the difference between the
cost of a student’s education at W&L
and the amount the student actually
pays in tuition.

PHOTOS BY CARTER MCNEESE

yA

 

ANNUAL FUND REPORT

Gifts Establish Record as Alumni Participation Rises to 36.6 Percent

The 1977-78 Annual Fund reached an all-time high of
$802,439 in gifts from alumni, parents and friends—$96,573
more than last year’s record-setting total of $705,866. The
average gift also hit an all-time high of $142.22, up from last
year’s record high of $135.74. The number of donors rose
from 5,200 last year to 5,692, and alumni participation rose
from 32.3 percent to 36.6 percent.

Leadership for the 1977-78 Annual Fund was provided by
C. Royce Hough, ’59A, Annual Fund chairman and Academic
Alumni chairman. Assisting him were S. Maynard Turk, ’52L,
Law Alumni chairman; John H. Van Amburgh, Current Par-
ents chairman; W. Martin Kempe, Past Parents chairman; and
Everett Tucker Jr., Robert E. Lee Associates chairman.

The 1977-78 Annual Fund covered eight percent of the
University’s educational and general budget. In 1977-78, 247
alumni, parents and friends contributed at the Lee Associates
level ($1,000 or more), 33 more than last year, and 1,873 at the
Colonnade Club level ($100-$999), 199 more than last year. Al-
though Lee Associates and Colonnade Club givers comprised
only 37 percent of the donors, their contributions amounted to
89 percent of the Fund.

Overall, the Fund showed an increase of 14.7 percent over
last year in dollars given, and a 9.5 percent increase in the
number of donors.

 

REPORT OF THE ANNUAL FUND
June 30, 1978

 

% Aug.
Donors Dollars Part. Gift
Alumni 77-78 5,246 $720,484 36.6 $137.34
76-77 4,769 $623,028 34.0 $130.64
Parents 77-78 408 $ 81,955 21.5 $200.87
76-77 346 $ 73,198 17.1 $211.55
Friends 77-78 38 $$ 7,085 — $186.45
76-77 85 $ 9,640 — $113.41
Totals 77-78 5,692 $809,524 35.1 $142.22
76-77 5,200 $705,866 32.3 $135.74

CURRENT PARENTS—J. H. Van Amburgh, Chairman
% Avg.
Area Area Chairman Donors Dollars Part. Gift
I G. F. Carroll 30 $ 4,480 17.6 $ 149
II F. N. Godin 33 3,505 18.0 106
III T. J. Black 49 5,970 27.1 121
IV C. C. McGehee 30 5,470 17.1 182
V F. W. Rogers 17 1,980 12.3 116
VI C. H. Hamilton 38 5,770 18.8 151
VII A. T. Drennen 27 7,025 26.5 260
VIII G. E. Tucker 24 7,189 24.0 299
IX J. M. Shaver 33 7,205 32.4 218
XxX Foreign l 200 7.1 200
Total 282 48,794 20.6 173

PAST PARENTS—W. M. Kempe, Chairman
W. M. Kempe 126 $ 33,161 23.8 $ 263

PARENTS TOTAL 408
22

$ 81,955 21.5 $ 200

 

 

C. Royce Hough, ’59A, Annual Fund chairman and Academic Alumni
chairman, at work at the Richmond phonathon.

 

Earl T. Jones (left), class agent for 1930A, receives the Richmond Trophy
from President Huntley. The trophy goes to the academic class graduated
in the last 50 years that achieves the highest percentage of participation.
See page 17 for the other trophy winners (sorry their pictures were not
available).

 

 

REPORT OF THE ANNUAL FUND BY CLASSES

ACADEMIC CLASSES

Class Class Agent Donors Dollars
GROUP I-A—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman
10A J. R. Blackburn 2 $ 1,581
14A A. W. McCain 9 886
1L5A R. N. Latture 12 4,330
16A E. B. Schultz 7 760
17A W. J. Cox 12 2,811
18A A. Beall Jr. 14 2,915
19A A. Lander 9 1,010
20A J. G. Evins 13 L272
21A S. L. Raines 10 830
22A V. E. Kemp 16 1,350
23A G. C. Mason Jr. oe 3,137
24A R. M. Jenkins 33 8,163
Others W.C. Washburn 14 10,635
TOTAL 183 39,680
GROUP II-A—H. G. Jahncke, Vice Chairman
25A E. T. Andrews 32 $ 5,583
26A T. T. Moore 37 5,684
27A G. W. McRae 36 5,250
28A S. A. Wurzburger 5] 23,448
29A T. G. Gibson 46 7,905
30A E. T. Jones 89 12,165
31A S. Sanders II 58 15,566
32A J. W. Ball/E. H. Fink 60 4,440
TOTAL 409 80,041
GROUP ITI-A—J. E. Neill, Vice Chairman
33A C. J. Longacre 60 $ 15,675
34A S. Mosovich 84 9,670
35A K. P. Willard 53 4,425
360A G. W. Harrison 62 13,664
37A D. R. Moore 70 7,610
38A E. Williams Ta 22,324
39A H. P. Avery 83 21,856
TOTAL 489 95,224
GROUP IV-A—R. G. Browning, Vice Chairman
4A0A T. E. Bruce 74 $ 47,670

4lA R. C. Peery 84 8,434
42A N. H. Brower 84 19,180
43A8L J. F. Ellis Jr. a2 12,649
44A&L G. T. Wood 76 9,306
45A&L C. C. Steff II 53 12,305
46A&L D. S. Hillman 38 6,052
47A&L W. G. Merrin 26 3,975
48A H. R. Gates 24 5,950
49A E. S. Epley 96 15,756
TOTAL 627 141,277
GROUP V-A—R. S. Griffith, Vice Chairman

50A R. U. Goodman 99 $ 17,292
5IA J. E. Moyler Jr. 72 9,988
52A W. G. Fuqua 110 15,074
53A J. W. McClintock III 101 13,175
54A - F.A. Parsons 101 22,786 ©
55A W. C. Jones 65 10,445
56A W. W. Dixon 76 9.518
57A S. M. Ehudin 83 6,964
58A V. W. Holleman Jr. 89 13,132
59A C. D. Hurt Jr. 103 10,710
TOTAL 899 129,084
GROUP VI-A—R. C. Vaughan III, Vice Chairman
60A W. W. Schaefer 101 $ 11,766
61A J. H. Allen Jr. 89 12,335
62A P. A. Agelasto III 94 9,667
63A E. R. Albert III 107 11,278
64A W. A. Noell Jr. 107 11,925
65A J. F. Williams III 9&8 7,816
66A J. H. Frampton 85 5,061
67A J.G.B. Ewing III 96 10,528
68A W. F. Stone 101 5,411
69A ‘J. E. Brown 110 7,592
TOTAL 988 93,379
GROUP VII-A—R. D. LaRue, Vice Chairman
70A J. W.. Thomas III 84 $ 8,340

%
Part.

24.2
39.1
46.2
31.8
63.2
43.8
33.3
63.6
43.5
a7
45.1
37.1
23.1
37.8

36.0
37.8
33.3
50.5
34.8
73.0
38.7
41.4
43.2

42.3
55.3
37.9
39.2
38.9
47.8
39.3
42.7

44.6
39.4
42.0
35.3
43.2
35.8
28.6
aaa
28.2
49.0
39.4

32.0
30.8
47.6
44.9
45.9
52.1
31,3
39.0
36.8
47.0
38.5

40.6
39.0
34.6
37.0
36.8
35.8
27. a

Boek
33.6
34.8

24.0

Avg.
Gift

$ 174

195

$ 644

wav

$ 174

143

7T1A H. Nottberg III 123 7,400
72A R. M. Turnbull 93 5,390
73A G. A. Frierson 101 4,225
7T4A M. Guroian 95 2,950
T5A B. H. Turnbull 90 5,100
76A K. P. Ruscio 110 3,035
77A E. T. Atwood 123 3,691
TOTAL 819 40,131
LAW CLASSES

Class Class Agent Donors Dollars
GROUP I-L—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman
17L G. Ottenheimer 4 $ 300
21L J. E. Moyler 4 275
221, G. W. Taliaferro 5 465
2aL W. W. Ogden 5 1,310
24L C. A. Tutwiler 5 1,475
25L W. A. McRitchie 4 815
26L R. O. Bentley Jr. 4 450
27k. C. T. Smith 9 1,711
Others 8 1,645
TOTAL 48 8,446
GROUP II-L—J. N. Harman III, Vice Chairman
28L No Agent 4 $ 2,300
29L,  §&: CG. Strite 4 450
30L L. H. Davis 7 855
31L M. M. Weinberg 10 6,101
S21, J. S. Shields 11 2,585
33L F. R. Bingham 10 1,100
34L R. D. Bailey 7 5,000
35L ~~‘ J. H. Glover 10 2,500
36L C. B. Cross Jr. 5 335
37L J. Arnold 15 4,982
38L S. A. Martin 9 2,615
39L =‘ J. D. Goodin 14 905
40L W. F. Saunders 11 8,350
41L C. F. Heiner 17 3,720
42L C. F. Bagley Jr. 8 725
TOTAL 142 42,523
GROUP III-L—W. M. Anderson, Vice Chairman
48L C. R. Allen 34 $ 4,288
49L W. D. Bain Jr. 23 4,728
50L W. J. Ledbetter 23 2,672
51L G. J. Kostel 25 2,395
a2 L J. L. Kaiser 25 3,901
53L R. L. Banse 10 695
54L D. R. Klenk 16 1,560
55L R. W. Hudgins 12 1,045
56L M. T. Herndon 9 1,125
57L O. P. Pollard 17 2,835
58L R. G. McCullough 8 1,408
59L O. A. Neff 8 1,075
TOTAL 210 27,719
GROUP IV-L—H. Angel, Vice Chairman
60L I. N. Smith Jr. 13 $ 936
61L W. F. Ford 17 3,860
62L T. L. Feazell 12 525
63L T. G. Ireland 8 320
64L R. L. Lawrence 22 1,123
65L F. A. Sutherland 17 900
66L C. G. Johnson 20 1,640
67L W.R. Reynolds. 16 1,570
68L L. A. Paterno Jr. 34 1,892
69L D. D. Redmond 30 1,565
TOTAL 189 14,331
GROUP V-L—M. H. Squires, Vice Chairman
70L B. B. Cummings 24 $ 1,921
71L W. J. Borda 16 1,245
724 S. M. Hurtt 24 850
73L ‘J. C. Moore 50 1,543
74L J. S. Kline 3] 1,125
75L A. D. Lloyd 36 713
76L F. L. Duemmler 33 748
tte R. L. Hewit 29 507
TOTAL 243 8,652

36.9
26.9
27.1
25.3
24.9
27.2
32.0
28.0

%
Part.

57.1
50.0
71.4
50.0
38.5
44.4
66.7
75.0
13.8
36.9

33.3
33.3
50.0
71.4
55.0
55.6
41.2
62.5
38.5
78.9
47.4
42.4
52.4
60.7
25.0
49.3

45.9
32.4
50.0
33.3
48.1
29.4
59.3
32.4
39.1
53.1
30.8
22.9
39.5

35.1
42.5
30.8
21.6
44.9
35.4
41.7
27.1
46.6
41.1
37.6

48.0
28.1
32.9
49.5
35.6
44.4
40.7
36.2
39.8

Avg.
Gift

$ 75
68

93
262
295
203
112
190
205
176

$ 575

by Bill Schnier

Sports Information Director

SPRING SPORTS ROUNDUP

All-American Honors and National Rankings Highlight the Season

All-American honors in three sports
and national ranking in two were the
highlight of W&L’s spring sports season.

LACROSSE

On the strength of two late-season
wins over Rutgers and North Carolina
State, the lacrosse team went to its
seventh straight NCAA championship
tournament. With a 9-4 record,
including a loss to perennial rival
Virginia—the first in five years—the
team met number-one ranked Cornell in
the first round. |

Cornell had won 40 games in a row at
that point, but the Generals were hoping
to cut the streak off. That was not to be,
and in Ithica the Generals became
victory 41 for Cornell. Not until the
finals of the tournament, when they met
Johns Hopkins, was Cornell defeated.

Head coach Jack Emmer said the loss
didn’t come as a result of any lack of
effort by the Generals. “We hustled all
the way against Cornell,” he said.
“They’re a team with tremendous sticks,
very well coached, and they never, ever
stop moving. We never gave up and
kept knocking them down, but were
simply beaten by a team with more
skill.”

Among the individual highlights of
the season were junior attackman John
Black joining the “50-point club” with 30
goals and 23 assists and senior co-
captain Charlie Brown’s 164 saves and
.614 save percentage. His four-year
mark of 735 saves breaks All-American
Skeet Chadwick’s career record of 684.
Middie Charlie Stieff and Brown were
selected as members of the South team
for the ‘78 North-South All Star Game.
Jeff Fritz, Black’s running mate on
attack, missed the “50-point club” by
only two points for the second year ina
row. Brown was named a second-team
All-American, as he was last year, and
Black and Fritz earned honorable
mention All-American status.

Emmer ts already looking toward next
year’s season. “We can’t feel too bad
finishing the season at 9-5 and making it
our seventh straight time to the
tournament. We lacked skill in some

o4

 

Honorable mention All-American Jeff Fritz in action.

positions this year but never stopped
fighting for the extra edge. As a team,
the players earned everything that came
their way. With a strong nucleus
returning, it looks good for the future of
W&L lacrosse.”

TENNIS

For the second year in a row, the
W&L tennis Generals swept all six
singles flights arid all three doubles
flights in winning the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference tennis
championships. Including the team’s
final year in the VCAA, W&L has been
conference tennis champions for the
past three seasons.

For the second consecutive year,
W&L’s Benjamin Johns captured the
championship at number one singles
and was named Conference Player of
the Year.

 

W&L coach Dennis Bussard kept his
perfect record intact, winning the
ODAC Coach of the Year award for the
second time. He had been named Coach
of the Year in the VCAA in both 1975

and 1976 and in his four years as W&L
head coach never missed being selected
as the league’s coach of the year.

W&L defeated teams from Emory &
Henry, Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-
Macon, Bridgewater, Lynchburg,
Eastern Mennonite and Roanoke.

Each individual winner was named
all-conference for the season, giving
W8cL six all-ODAC performers for
1978. Winners for the Generals were
Johns, Stewart Jackson at number two
singles, Cody Davis at number three,
Doug Gaker at number four, David
Constine at number five and Pat Norris
at number six singles.

Johns and Jackson teamed up to win

the number one doubles, Davis and
Norris won at two and Constine and
Gaker won the number three doubles.

Also for the second straight season,
the tennis Generals finished in the
runner-up position in the NCAA
Division III national championships.

Johns made it to the semifinals of the
singles play before losing. He assured
himself of All-American honors, W&L’s
first ever in singles, by making it past
the quarterfinals. He won four
individual matches, including one over
the top-seeded player, before losing in
the semifinals.

Johns teamed with sophomore
Stewart Jackson to finish second in the
doubles competition. The duo won the
national doubles and All-American
honors in 1977. They won four
championship matches this year before
losing in the finals. The top four
doubles teams are accorded AH-:
American recognition and Johns and
Jackson, W&L’s first tennis All>
Americans ever, achieved that ‘honor
again as a team in 1978.

After the season ended, Coach Dennis
Bussard announced he would be leaving
WL to take the post of assistant athletic
director and head basketball coach at
Babson College in Massachusetts. Gary
R. Franke, a 1971 graduate of Mankato
State in Minnesota, was named head
tennis coach. He will remain as the
University’s head wrestling coach, but
relinquished his position as assistant
trainer to take on the tennis duties.
Franke is an assistant professor in the
University’s physical education
department.

GOLF

W&L successfully defended its ODAC
golf title by winning the team
championship in the 1978 tournament
held at the Staunton Country Club. The
Generals shot a four-man total of 628
for 36 holes defeating second place
Hampden-Sydney by 13 strokes.
Following the leaders were Roanoke,
Lynchburg, Bridgewater and Randolph-
Macon.

Senior captain Jerry Maatman was

 

 

Gary R. Franke, new tennis coach

 

Golfer of the Year Jerry Maatman

named the ODAC Golfer of the Year
after capturing medalist honors in the
tournament. Coach Buck Leslie was
named the ODAC Coach of the Year for
the second straight season.

Each of the top six individual
finishers was named an all-conference
golfer for 1978, and joining Maatman
were junior Dave Leuning, the 1977
ODAC Golfer of the Year and this year’s
third-place finisher, and sixth-place
finisher Bob Moorhead.

By losing the final match of the
season to Roanoke, W&L just missed the
opportunity for an undefeated season.
The Generals closed out the season with
an 8-1 record, bringing their four year
total to 42 wins and six losses.

Maatman was the only W&L golfer
selected to play in the Division ITI
national championships in Wooster,
Ohio. He finished with a four-day total
of 304 for third-place honors and was
named a first-team All-American for the
second season in a row. His third round
score of 69 was the lowest of the
tournament and the lowest score ever in
competitive play at the Wooster Country
Club. He had finished fifth nationally in
1977 when the Generals as a team were
seventh. W&L was not selected as a team
this season.

BASEBALL

The baseball team finished the 1978
season with a 5-16 won-loss record,
including a 3-9 mark in conference play.
The highlight of the season would have
to be W&L’s upset win over ODAC
champion Bridgewater.

Sophomore Chip Childs was the
team’s leading pitcher with three wins
and a 5.69 earned run average. Vic
Shepherd won two games and By Steele
had the best E.R.A., 5.03.

Senior designated hitter Bob
Szczecinski completed the year as W&L’s
leading hitter with a .373 average and
also led in RBIs with 15. Second baseman
Pete Restaino was second in batting with
a .285 average and leftfielder Chuck
D’Auria had a .283 batting average.
Shortstop Doug Hassinger led in home
runs, doubles and walks.

29

SPRING SPORTS ROUNDUP

Two regulars completed the year
without an error and a 1.000 fielding
percentage—Rich Wiles and first
baseman Mike Busbey.

TRACK AND FIELD

The W&L track and field Generals
finished a disappointing sixth place in
the ODAC championships, having
entered with hopes of a second-place
finish or perhaps their first
championship.

Bridgewater won the team title,
followed by Lynchburg, Emory &
Henry, Eastern Mennonite, Roanoke,
W&L and Hampden-Sydney.

The highlight of the meet for W&L
was freshman Karl Cheatham’s 46’2”
leap in the triple jump. That jump
broke his own school record set only two
weeks before. Junior sprinter Jack
Norberg also had a fine afternoon,
finishing second in both the 100 meters
and the 200 meters. His 200-meter time,
21.9 seconds, missed the national
qualifying time by a tenth of a second.

Other top performances for W&L
were by R. J. Scaggs in the 400 meters,
Norvell Scott in the 400-meter hurdles,
Paul Hendry in the high jump, Baker
Spring in the pole vault and Bob
Hoffman in the triple jump. The mile
relay team of Scaggs, Norberg, Bill
Morris and Stew Atkinson finished
second.

Six new school records were set
during the 1978 season. Norberg set
new marks in the 100 meters at 10.8
seconds and in the 200 meters in 21.9.
Scott set a record in the 400-meter
hurdles at 57.0. Richard Bird set the
record in the 1500 meters with a time of
3:59.5 and Al Weeks set a new standard
for the 5000 meters at 15:35.6.
Cheatham broke the triple jump record
twice, his best jump being 46’2”.

ATHLETIC AWARDS

Swimmer John S. Hudson of
Lancaster, Pa., was named the recipient
of the Preston R. Brown Memorial
Award at the season-ending All Sports
Barbeque and Award Ceremony May 23
in the Warner Center.

26

Presented annually since 1950, the
award is given to W&L’s most valuable
senior athlete for overall performance
and athletic proficiency during the
college career. It is voted by the
members of the athletic department and
is the highest honor a W&L athlete may
receive.

In four years, Hudson has achieved
All-American honors 17 different times.
Head coach Bill Stearns calls Hudson,
“far and away the best swimmer in the
University’s history.” He was W&L’s
first-ever national champion, winning
the 500- and 1650-yard freestyle events
as a sophomore. He has been a Virginia
state champion eight times, is a school
record holder in six events, holds the
state record as a member of the W&L
800 free relay team, and has been
named W&L’s outstanding swimmer in
each of his four years in Lexington.

Seniors Jeff Slatcoff of Windber, Pa.,

and Mark Duncan of Roanoke, Va.,
1977 football co-captains, were named
co-recipients of the Wink Glasgow Spirit
and Sportsmanship Award. The
Glasgow Award has been given annually
since 1958 to the W&L senior who has
demonstrated the highest qualities of
true W&L spirit and sportsmanship in
his career. This marked the first year
there have been two winners of the
award.

Jim Herbert of Winston-Salem, N.C.,
was named the winner of the
Outstanding Freshman Athlete award.
That award was established in 1960 to
honor the first-year athlete who showed
the most athletic ability through his
participation in one or more sports.
Herbert, a graduate of Virginia
Episcopal in Lynchburg, played
defensive back in football and was a
defenseman on W&L’s nationally ranked
lacrosse team.

 

1978 Football

Sept. 9—James Madison Away
Sept. 16—Davidson Home
Sept. 23—Centre Away
Sept. 30—Randolph-Macon Home
Oct. 7—Maryville Away
Oct. 14—Hampden-Sydney Home
(Homecoming)
Oct. 21—Univ. of the South Home
Oct. 28—Bridgewater Away
Nov. 4—Emory & Henry Home
(Parents’ Weekend)
Nov. 11—Georgetown Away
1978 Soccer
Sept. 8-9—Washington College Away
‘Tournament
Sept. 16—Swarthmore Away
Sept. 23—Valley United Home
Sept. 27—Averett Away
Sept. 30—Eastern Mennonite Away
Oct. 4—Hampden-Sydney Away
Oct. 7—Elizabethtown Home
Oct. _11—Richmond Home
Oct. 15—Virginia Tech Home
Oct. 18—James Madison Home
Oct. 21—Roanoke Away

Oct. 25—Radford Home
Oct. 28—Lynchburg Home
Nov. —1—Virginia Wesleyan Home
Nov. 5—V.M.I. Away
1978 Cross-Country
Sept. 23—Davis & Elkins
Elkins, W. Va.
Sept. 30—Roanoke, Norfolk State
Norfolk, Va.
Oct. 7—Virginia Wesleyan, Norfolk
State, Lynchburg, Christo-
pher Newport
Va. Beach, Va.
Oct. 14—Bridgewater, Roanoke,
Liberty Baptist, Eastern
Mennonite Home
Oct. 21—Emory & Henry, Univ. of
South Carolina at
Spartanburg Emory, Va.
Oct. 24—West Virginia Institute of
Technology
Montgomery, W. Va.
Oct. 28—Hampden-Sydney
Hampden-Sydney, Va.
Nov. § 4—ODAC Championships
Lynchburg, Va.
Nov. 11—NCAA Dv. III Championships

 

CHAPTER NEWS

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. Members
of the Shreveport Art Guild joined with
an enthusiastic group of alumni for the
opening exhibition of the Louise
Herreshoff paintings on May 3 at the
Meadows Museum of Art on the campus
of Centenary College. The many guests
greatly enjoyed the excellent paintings
and the lovely music played during the
reception by a violin trio. Following a
reception at the Meadows Museum, the
Shreveport Alumni Chapter entertained
with cocktails and dinner at the
Shreveport Club. Special guests for the
occasion were James W. Whitehead,
University treasurer, who told the story
of Louise Herreshoff’s life and the
discovery of her paintings, and Mrs.
Whitehead. John Madison, ‘64, presided
over the dinner meeting and introduced
the guests who included Dr. Donald
Webb, president of Centenary College,
Mrs. Webb and officers of the »
Shreveport Art Guild. Also recognized
were Miss Carolyn Nelson, curator of
the Meadows Museum, and Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Jeter for their part, not only
in organizing the Herreshoff exhibition,
but also in the chapter meeting. Also in
attendance from Washington and Lee
were Robert S. Keefe, 68, director of
the University’s News Office, and
William C. Washburn, alumni secretary.

NEW ENGLAND. The spring meeting of
the chapter was held at the Parker
House in Boston on May 6 with a
reception and dinner. Special guests for
the occasion were E. Marshall Nuckols
Jr., °33, 35L, rector of the University’s
Board of Trustees, and Mrs. Nuckols.
Using a series of color slides, Nuckols
gave an excellent and up-to-date report
on Washington and Lee and particularly
its efforts in the development program.
Also attending were E. Stewart Epley,
"49, a staff associate of the Board of
Trustees, Mrs. Epley, Buddy Atkins, ’68,
assistant alumni secretary, and William
C. Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary.
Charles W. Pride, ’72, presided at the
meeting and told of future plans for the
chapter, particularly an effort in student
recruitment.

 

NE W ENGLAND—Standing are Soeant E bey, FS Charen Pride, 79. chapter president; John

 

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—James W. Whitehead tells the story of the Herreshoff paintings.

    

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA—John M. Madison Jr., 64, chapter president, with W. Wade Sample, ’69,
and Mrs. Sample.

 

Mello, ’72, and Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., 33, ’35L; seated are Mrs. Epley, Miss Margo Pauli,
and Mrs. Nuckols.

ae

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

The

Washington and Lee
Chair
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$80.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$65.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:

Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and_ telephone
number.

 

 

28

1917

Gus OTTENHEIMER was awarded an honorary
doctor of laws degree by the University of
Arkansas at Little Rock during commencement
exercises May 14. The ceremony was part of the
university's 50th anniversary celebration.
Ottenheimer, a businessman in Little Rock, was
honored for his leadership in the development
of the university. In the 1950s he chaired a
committee that recommended the Little Rock
Junior College be converted to a four-year
institution and as a member of the board of
Little Rock University he headed a committee
to merge the institution with the University of
Arkansas. He served for 13 years on the LRU
board of trustees and the UALR board of
visitors. He is a partner in Ottenheimer Bros.,
manufacturers of women’s clothing for 30 years
and he later developed the Cloverdale
subdivision. Ottenheimer is also in the
investment business.

1923

FRENCH R. McKnicutr of Helena, Ark.,
received the Liberty Bell Award given annually
by the Phillips County Bar Association in
recognition of individual contributions to
Helena, West Helena and Phillips County.
McKnight, former president and_ chief
executive officer of McKnight Veneer and
Plywoods Inc., received the award in late May.
In 1972 he sold the manufacturing plant but
retained other properties which he now
manages. He was a scoutmaster, a member of
the district scout council, and a member of the
Helena School Board when citizens of Helena
and West Helena voted to consolidate their
school districts. McKnight played a prominent
role between 1945 and 1960 in developing an
austerity program which provided quality
education. He was one of three original
commissioners appointed in 1945 to serve on
the Helena Water Commission. He has served
on the board of directors of Helena Hospital
Association since 1966, has been president since
1976, and is a director of the First National
Bank of Phillips County.

1929

HEnry P. JOHNSTON Sr. has been honored with
an honorary doctor of humanities degree from
the University of Alabama in Birmingham.
Johnston, who was in newspaper and radio
business in Birmingham for many years, is
currently serving on the president’s cabinet of
the University of Alabama in Tuscaloosa.
Johnston is also chairman of the personnel
board of the civil service board of Jefferson
County. He has been on this board for 20 years.

LAWRENCE L. McCartuy of Richmond, Va., isa
retired C.P.A. but keeps busy with several
activities.

1930

ARTHUR L. EBERLY is public relations director
for the Taxpayers League of Polk County, Inc.,
in Bartow, Fla.

Harry LAwbeR III has been the “collection
department” for the Naples, Fla., Community
Hospital for six years. He held a similar position
with the Harford Memorial Hospital in
Maryland.

MaRK Lyons, a retired wholesale hardware
executive in Mobile, Ala., boasts of four sons,
one daughter, and ten grandchildren.

1931

JAMES L. RIMLER is completing his fifth year on
the Longboat Key, Fla., planning and zoning
board.

MARRIAGE: FRANK H. Brapy and Gladys F.
Todd in May, 1977. Brady has been retired
since 1972. The couple lives in Bricktown, N. Y.

J. BERBNARD SPECTOR, an attorney in Miami,
Fla., has partially retired and has acquired a
summer home in Boone, N.C. *

2
a

1933

REUBEN B. ARMISTEAD retired as an engineer
with South Central Bell Telephone Co. in 1975.
He resides in Nashville, Tenn.

K. THOMAS EVERNGAM, circuit court judge of
Caroline County, Md., is the president of the
newly formed Peninsula Conference
Foundation. The foundation will keep abreast
of all developments in charitable giving and
estate planning and will be available to counsel
any lawyer or individual. Everngam was
admitted to the Maryland and_ District of
Columbia Bars in 1938 and has practiced law in
Caroline County since 1943.

Dr. CARY FREDERICK IRONS JR. is a physician in
Greenville, N.C. He was certified by the
American Board of Family Practice in 1970 and
1976. Irons is a director of the East Carolina
University Student Health Service. He and his
wife, Malene, who is a pediatrician and director
of the Developmental Evaluation Clinic at East
Carolina University, have three sons.

Dr. C. W. KaurMan has just returned from
Turkey where he assisted in starting up sterile
milk plants. Kaufman did similar work for the
Egyptian government last year. In 1977 he was
presented with his second Arizona Artisan
Award as a Tucson-based “Friend of the
World.”

G. WILLIAM MUSSER, an attorney in Indiana
County, Pa., has recently been elected to the

his own. firm,

House of Delegates, the policy-making body of
the Pennsylvania Bar Association. He has been
practicing law for 41 years. He is a past
president of the Indiana County Bar
Association and the Indiana Rotary Club and is
a former special deputy attorney general. He
and his wife have one child and_ three
grandchildren.

1934

It was incorrectly reported in the March 1978
Alumni Magazine that Foster M. PALMER
retired as acting librarian of the Francis A.
Countway Library of Medicine in Watertown,
Mass. It should have read Boston. Palmer lives
in Watertown. The editor regrets the error.

1936

Oray M. Davis, an engineer since 1936, retired
in 1972 from the Army Corps of Engineers. He
travels a lot and is compiling data for a book he
hopes to publish.

After 41 years, less 44 months of active duty
with U.S. Navy in World War II, A. MARVIN
PULLEN JR. has retired as a C.P.A. He managed
the A.M. Pullen Co. of
Greensboro, N. C.

RENE L. TALLICHET, retired from both the
Army and from the Central Intelligence
Agency, lives in Fairfax, Va. He is a frequent
visitor on Campus.

After 40 years with the Tryon Oil Co., Inc., of
Johnstown, N. Y., RoBerT P. VANVoast has
retired to a new home on a beautiful lake 10
miles from town. The new president of Tryon ts
Herbert VanVoast, 41.

1937

JAMES P. (Doc) BAKER JR., an attorney in
Helena, Ark., and a member of the Phillips
County Bar Association, participated in the
Liberty Bell Award ceremonies honoring his
friend French McKnight, ’23. Baker wrote the
citation for McKnight.

Davip B. WHARTON, an author with a love for
adventure, has made five trips to Alaska,
floated the Yukon and upper Missouri rivers,
and white-watered the Flat Head and Roague
rivers. He has published a book, Alaska Gold
Rush, and has just completed Inside Passage,
Southeast Alaska. Wharton spent a year in
Oxford, London and Madrid researching the
book on Alaska’s Inside Passage, and also played
golf, backpacked, and enjoyed life.

1938

JoHN H. SHoar, after working 35 years in
international trade development in 11
countries, has retired and re-established his

residence in San Antonio, Texas. The local
Chamber of Commerce has asked him to serve
as its director of international activities.

1939

HucGH P. Avery, director of institutional
services for the University of Houston at Clear
Lake City, has been elected chairman of the
Coordinating Board, Texas College and
University System Advisory Committee at its
initial meeting in Austin.

ALEXANDER BLAIN, a surgeon in Detroit, serves
on the Detroit Zoological Commission. He is
also president of the Detroit Racquet Club.

JAMES FISHEL is president of Fairfax, Inc., an
advertising agency in New York City.

1940

C. Epwarp Biair is general manager of sales
and marketing for Armco Steel Corp., at the
corporate headquarters in Middletown, Ohio.

194]

WILLIAM L. SHANNON is president of Shannon
Funeral Services, Inc., of Shelbyville, Ky., and
treasurer of The Old Masons Home of Kentucky.

HERBERT VANVOAST, a prominent oil business-
man in Johnstown, N. Y., has just been named
president of Tryon Oil Co., Inc., upon the re-
tirement of his brother, Robert P. VanVoast,
"36.

1943

FRANK R. BELL JR., president of Systems Corp.
of Tampa, Fla., has successfully arranged a
merger with ARC of Bryan, Texas. He took an
early retirement and lives in Atlanta, Ga.

STUART LAWRENCE 1s director of the library at
Kirtland Community College in Roscommon,
Mich.

RUSSELL H. NEILSON Is vice president for mar-
keting of the Dallas, Texas, firm of Hughes Co.,
Inc., which imports and distributes the popular
Adidas sport shoes in the southwest United
States.

JAMES S. SUTHERLAND, vice president of Bir-
mingham (Ala.) Trust National Bank, recently
traveled to London, Moscow and Leningrad
with a group studying historic sites and monu-
ments.

1944

EARLE PALMER Brown, president and chairman
of the board of Earle Palmer Brown & Associ-
ates, an advertising, marketing and public rela-
tions firm in Potomac, Md., is also president of
Rosecroft Raceway and of the Harness Tracks
of America. Brown also serves as a media con-

20

CLASS NOTES

sultant to several congressmen. Brown was fea-
tured in an article in the Washington Star issue
of May 12, 1978.

THOMAS D. CRITTENDEN is claims group vice
president for North American Reinsurance
Corp., with headquarters in New York City. In
August 1977 he presented a paper “Is Arbitra-
tion a Viable Alternative to Litigation? What
May or Must be Arbitrated? A Reinsurance Per-
spective” before the arbitration section of the
committee on Insurance, Negligence and Com-
pensation Law of the American Bar Association
at its annual meeting in Chicago. Crittenden is a
graduate of the program for senior executives
at the Alfred P. Sloan School of Management of
M.I.T. in Cambridge. In May 1978 he lectured
on “History and Present Structure of Claims
Departments as Viewed by a Reinsurer” at the
AIA-Alliance Claims Conference, sponsored by
the Alliance of American Insurers and the
American Insurance Association in San Fran-
C1sco. |

1945

RAYMOND E. NorMAN is in the insurance busi-
ness in Wheeling, W. Va. He retired from the
U.S. Navy Reserve in 1976 with the rank of
captain. He and his wife have 3 sons and 2
daughters.

1947

Davip R. NorMann has been practicing law since
1950 with an emphasis on maritime law. In addi-
tion to work with the firm of Normann & Nor-
mann, he will teach a course in Maritime Per-
sonal Injuries at Loyola University’s School of
Law beginning in the fall of 1978.

1948

WALTER B. POTTER, head of two new subsidiaries
of Carter Class & Sons, Publishers, Inc., in Cul-
peper and Richlands, Va., has been named ex-
ecutive vice president of the Lynchburg firm
and co-publisher of The News and The Daily Ad-
vance. Potter is a past president of the Virginia
Press Association and the National Newspaper
Association. He was awarded the George Mason
Award in 1966 by the Richmond chapter of
Sigma Delta Chi, the professional journalists’
society. Potter served during World War II in
the Army and retired in the reserves with the
rank of colonel. He served four years as civilian
aide to the Secretary of the Army for Virginia.
Potter, one of the organizers and the first presi-
dent of Culpeper Industrial Corp. and Culpeper
Development Corp., is also a director of the
Jefferson Savings & Loan Association. Potter,
who is very active in civic organizations, and his
wife plan to move to Lynchburg.

1950

RAYMOND D. CoarEs is practicing law in Berlin,
Md., with two of his sons, Raymond D. Coates

30

Jr., 71, and B. Randall Coates, ’72. Younger
brother Thomas, ’81, is keeping alive the Coates’
family tradition in athletics. He was on the Gen-
erals’ football and baseball squads this past
school year.

JOHN C. EARLE resigned as assistant dean of the
University of Detroit School of Law and is now
in private practice as a partner with the firm of
Rickel, Urso, Wokas & Earle in Detroit.

CLIFFORD B. LATTA, an attorney in Prestonburg,
Ky., was recently elected as senior vice president
and general counsel of the First National Bank.
Latta is also general counsel for several local
coal firms and is a former state senator.

HERBERT B. MILLER is associate professor in
physical education at Richard Bland College in
Petersburg, Va. He is also chairman of the phy-
sical education department and the natural
science division.

1951

MARRIAGE: Tom WoLFE, author’ and
journalist, and Shelia Berger, art director of
Harper’s magazine, on May 27, 1978, in
ceremonies at Wolfe’s home in Manhattan. The
bride is a graduate of Pratt Institute. Wolfe is
the author of several books including The
Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test and Radical Chic &
Mau-mauing the Flak Catchers.

JUDGE JAMES P. CARPENTER has opened a law
office in Uniondale, Pa., with a former U. S.
attorney, Bill Fisher.

Guy B. HAMMOND 1s serving as acting chairman
of the philosophy and religion department at
Virginia Tech. He was recently elected to the
board of directors of The North American Paul
Tillich Society.

Henry J. Waters III is an entrepreneur in
Columbia, Mo. In addition to being editor and
publisher of the Columbia Daily Tribune, he is
owner and overseer of several other enterprises
including McKnight Tire Co. of Jefferson City
and Columbia, Mo.; Waters Publications, which
produces the Kingdom Daily News in Fulton,
Mo., Billboard, a publication of events and
happenings in Columbia and The National
Exchange, a buy-and-sell paper for newspaper and
related machinery; Columbia Antiques, a store
and warehouse specializing in retail antique
furniture; and Ole Tyme Sausage, Inc. Waters
also deals in real estate.

1952

Holiday Inns, Inc., has elected Epwarp E. ELLIs
senior vice president and general counsel. Ellis
was previously president and general manager
of the Spring Valley Foods Division of
Heublein.

HENRY W. JONES JR., president of Cathey-

 

Williford-Jones Co. will, effective October
1978, become the president of The National
Hardwood Lumber Association which will
move its headquarters to Memphis in 1979. The
association will also construct a new facility for
the National Hardwood Lumber Inspection
School. Jones, one of the best-known
lumbermen in the hardwood business, has been
vice president of the association.

1953

Dr. J. Bowyer BELL JR., a professor at
Columbia University and an expert on political
terrorism, was quoted in the May 22, 1978, issue
of Newsweek concerning his views on the future
threat of terrorism in the United States.

WILLIs F. BRown is a practicing C.P.A. with his
own firm in Fort Worth, Texas.

HuGH S. GLICKSTEIN has been elected to the
board of governors of the Florida Bar
Association. He is an attorney in Hollywood, Fla.

MaLco”m L. HOLekamp has been elected to a
fourth four-year term as councilman for the
City of Webster Groves, Mo.

JAMES P. CARPENTER (See 1951.)

RAYMOND D. Coates (See 1950.)

1954

ROBERT E. BRADFORD has been named senior
vice president of Food Marketing Institute, a
research and public affairs cooperative of 950
retail and wholesale food brokers. Bradford has
been with FMI since its founding in 1977 as vice
president of government affairs. He has 20
years experience working with Congress in
various posts and was a Fellow at the Harvard
University Institute of Politics in 1971. He is
now a member of the Harvard Fellows Advisory
Committee. Bradford lives in Great Falls, Va.

A. DEAN Guy, formerly of Richmond, Va., has
purchased a business in Memphis, Tenn.,
Central Oxygen & Supply, Inc.

1955
HAROLD J. BLACKSIN is production manager of
WA-LOR Manufacturing Co. of Philadelphia.
He lives with his wife and two children in
Andalusia, Pa.

Harry M. Forp Jr. is senior vice president of
Legg Mason Wood & Walker, an investment
and securities firm in Baltimore.

After a year and a half in the private practice of
law, WILLIAM R. RITTER JR. has been appointed
assistant prosecutor for Mercer County, N. J.,
which encompasses 13 municipalities including
Trenton and Princeton.

HuGu S. GLICKSTEIN (See 1953.)

1956

Epwarb DuNcAN MCCarRTHY, a specialist in
training and administration with the Navy, has
been promoted to the rank of captain. He is
commanding. officer of the Naval Reserve
Center in Philadelphia, Pa.

EDWARD E. E Luis (See 1952.)

1957

Lioyp A. DosByns Jr. will anchor a prime time
news Magazine program with Linda Ellerbee
beginning on NBC this fall. Dobyns previously
anchored Weekend for NBC News, an award-
winning monthly news program which aired on

Saturday nights.

Dr. ALEXANDER B. PLatTtT, a resident of
Riverside, Conn., is director and a psychologist
with the firm, Perspectives, which is a career
counseling center in Greenwich, Conn. He is
also a partner with the management psychology
firm of Keyes & Platt. A former:‘dean of
students at Columbia College, part of Columbia
University, he was also a mahagement
psychologist with Rohrer, Hibler and Replogle
and vice president and director of instructional
systems for Grolier Educational Corp.
Perspectives, his new firm, offers a four-phase
program in vocational evaluation, © skills
identification, career search and job search.

HAROLD J. BLACKSIN (See 1955.

1958

DONALD A. MILLER has returned from three
years in London, England. He is now vice
president and manager of the International
Division of the United California Bank in San
Francisco. He and his wife and son live in

Orinda, Calif.

Dr. JOHN S. PEALE has been promoted to
associate professor of philosophy at Longwood
College in Farmville, Va., where he joined the
faculty in the fall of 1976. He was selected as a
fellow in the National Endowment for the
Humanities Summer Seminar in Philosophy at
Brown University in 1976.

1959

RICHARD COLBURN BUTLER III of Little Rock,
Ark., a trust officer for the Commercial
National Bank, will teach a course in Business
Law at the University of Arkansas at Little
Rock. He is also serving a second three-year
term on the board of directors of Contact
Teleministries U.S.A., Inc., which sponsors a
network of crisis intervention telephone
Services.

 

A. J. Frank, ’59

CHARLES W. COLE Jr. is president of the First
National Bank of Maryland and the parent
holding company, The First Maryland
Bancorp. He lives in Owing Mills.

ANTHONY J. FRANK has been elected a general
partner and member of the executive
committee of Branch Cabell and Co., a
Richmond investment firm. He is responsible
for the company’s operations, compliance and
administration. Frank is also a founder and
current president of the Bull and Bear Club.

1960

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. Houston Jr., a
daughter, Elizabeth Van Leer, on May 19,
1978. She will be welcomed at home by two
older brothers. The family lives in Media, Pa.

BIRTH: JupGeE and Mrs. W. JERE TOLTON, a son,
Timothy Tyler, on June 27, 1977. The young
man joins an older sister and brother. ‘Tolton is
serving as circuit judge in the First Judicial
Circuit of Florida’ (criminal and _ civil
jurisdiction).

Harvey LEVINE is president of Levine Calvano
Association, Inc., a marketing firm
representing |I4 manufacturers of office
furniture in New York City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. HUNTER THOMPSON
Jr. of Richmond, Va., a daughter, Christian, on
April 28, 1978.

CLINTON L. ANDERSON is still assigned to
Headquarters, Department of the Army, as an
education staff officer in the Education
Directorate in the Adjutant General Center. He
lives in Silver Spring, Md.

CHARLES L. CAMPBELL has joined Tenneco Oil
Company's Offshore Division at Lafayette, La.,
as a geological engineering specialist. He holds
an M.S. in geology from the University of
Kansas and a Ph.D. from Tulane University.
Campbell was previously with Aminoil.

JAMES B. CONE is with Data 100 in OEM
Computer Products Co. He also is owner of
Coffee and Tea, Ltd., of St. Paul and
Deephaven, Minn. The firm is a leading source
of freshly roasted coffee and fine teas in the
upper Midwest. Cone lives in Burnsville.

WILLIAM F. Forp is a partner in the law firm of
Ford, Harrison, Sullivan & Lowry specializing
in representing management in labor relations.
Their offices are in Atlanta, Ga. He and his
wite, Ginny, have one daughter and one son.

Dr. CHARLES P. RILEy is director of cardiology
at Sacred Heart Hospital in Pensacola, Fla. He
and his wife have two sons.

1962

RosBert K. Woop, an attorney in Lexington,
Ky., is also engaged in several businesses. He is
chairman of the board of Lester Pocohontas
Coal Co., Inc.; president of Wood Coal Co.;
trustee of Wood Investment Co. and Wood
Properties.

1963

WILLIAM H. CANDLER has been appointed
editor of Metro, a local magazine in Norfolk. He
is also vice president of the North Virginia
Beach Civic League and a board member of the
Friends of the Library of Virginia Beach.
Candler lives in Virginia Beach with his wife,
son and daughter.

After 16 years in daily broadcast journalism,
CLARENCE RENSHAW is moving to Richmond,
Va., to launch a career in free-lance writing. He
hopes to do travel writing, in-depth pieces on
contemporary issues and script writing for
advertising and commercial films.

DonaLp A. Wyty has been promoted to
assistant manager of the Nevada Division of the
California State Automobile Association. Wyly
lives in Las Vegas with his wife and three sons.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LESTER M. FOOTE, a son,
Lester M. Jr., on Oct. 18, 1977. Foote is a
methods engineer for The Valley National
Bank in Phoenix, Ariz.

Davip J. ANDRE and D. P. Rasun, ’73, are
partners in the Winchester law firm of Larrick,
White, Andre & Rabun. JAMes H. MALONEY,
"76L, is an associate with the firm.

RICHARD C. COLTON JR., former director of
SEABEE Marketing, has become assistant
manager of the newly-established Lykes
Marketing Division of Lykes Bros. Steamship
Co., Inc. He first joined the Lykes staff in 1964.
In addition to his company’s assignments in the
United States, he also spent two years with
Lykes in Japan.

Dr. MatrHew H. HucsBert of New London,
Conn., has been promoted to associate
professor of chemistry at Connecticut College.

Ho .uts I. Moore Jr. is an attorney in Nashville,
Tenn. He and his wife, the former Annie
Aitken of Maryland, have one son.

Dr. PETER S. TRAGER was inducted as a fellow
of the Academy of General Dentistry in June
1978. His office is in Marietta, Ga.

W. JERE TOLTON (See 1960.)

1965

WALTER H. BENNETT JR. has been appointed a

3 |

CLASS NOTES

district judge for North Carolina’s 26th Judicial
Circuit. His wife, Betsy, has been elected to the
Charlotte-Mechlenburg School Board. The
Bennetts have two children.

The Rev. THomas T. CRENSHAW III is pastor of
a Presbyterian church in West Oak Lane, a
section of Philadelphia. The Crenshaws have
three daughters.

DouG.as V. Davis has been promoted to the
International Programs Staff as _ general
attorney by the FCC Common Carrier Bureau.
Davis lives in Vienna, Va., with his wife, Jean,
and son.

Dr. Mark G. HAEBERLE Is practicing obstetrics
in Rome, Ga. He is married to the former Noel
Leigh Worrell and they have a son, Andrew.

JAMES E. Kup has been named deputy attorney
general in charge of the criminal division of the
Virginia Attorney General’s office.

WoopardD D. OPENO is a_ consultant in
architectural restoration at Strawberry Banke,
Inc., a museum involved in the historic
restoration of Portsmouth, N. H. He teaches an
extension course through the University of
New Hampshire on Portsmouth’s architecture.

1966

MARRIAGE: J. PEGRAM JOHNSON III and
Bonnie Gail Greer on April 8, 1978, in
Charlotte, N.C. Members and guests of the
wedding included William S. Baker, ’66; John
A. B. Palmer, ’66; Capt. Ralph E. Pearcy II, ’69;
H. Stafford Bryant, ’20; John R. Thorsen, ’68;
John Schuber, ’44, ’49L; and Gary L. Murphy,
‘70. Johnson is a trust officer with Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in Charlotte.

Neit L, HOUGHTON is owner and president of
Used Computers, Inc., a firm specializing in the
sale and leasing of new and used computer
memory devices. Houghton is also a director
and treasurer of a community model program
to combat child abuse in Villanova, Pa., and is
serving on the U.S./Czechoslovakian Trade
Council.

Dr. RANDOLPH M. WILLIAMS has completed his
residency in orthopedic surgery at the Medical
College of Virginia and entered private practice
in Greenville, N. C., on July 1, 1978.

WILLIAM H. CANDLER (See 1963.)

1967
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce B. MCKEITHEN, a
son, Byron Cordell, on March 8, 1978. He joins
an older brother, Jeffrey Brian, at home in
Monroe, La., where McKeithen is a partner in
the law firm of LaCroix and McKeithen.

32

   

R. T. Clapp, ’68

JAMES D. Awap manages three equity mutual
funds for First Investors Corp. in New York
City.

STUART FINESTONE, together with his law
partner in Atlanta, Ga., has written a book
entitled Post-Judgment Collection, The Law in
Georgia. The book is being published by the
Harrison Co. Finestone received his J.D. degree
from Emory University. He is a member of the
Atlanta, Georgia) and American’ Bar
Associations as well as the Commercial Law
League of America. He has lectured on
bankruptcy and creditor’s rights and at a
Continuing Legal Education Seminar for the
Atlanta Bar Association, and is admitted to
practice before all Georgia and federal courts.

Dr. STEVEN A. MANALAN is chief resident in
orthopedic surgery at Massachusetts General
Hospital in Boston. He plans to enter private
practice in January 1979 in Fitchburg, Mass.

Dr. JOHN R. McGiL_ completed a year’s
fellowship) in’ hand surgery at Rush
Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Medical Center, in
Chicago in June, 1978. He opened a practice in
plastic and reconstructive surgery in Bangor,
Maine, in July.

JOHN R. MILLER has been promoted to major in
the Army and is commander of the Regional
Personnel Center in Bad Kreuznach, Germany.

Davip J. ANDRE (See 1964.)

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. STEWART Baker III, a
daughter, Virginia Colbert, on Dec. 23, 1977.
Baker is with Atlantic National Bank and lives
in West Palm Beach, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Jay Trms, a son,

Preston Brooks, on Dec. 8, 1977, in
Youngstown, Ohio.
EDMUND H. ARMENTROUT is” senior vice

president and vice chairman of the board of
The Research Group, Inc., a management
consulting firm in Atlanta. He is also president
of Jobs, Inc., a publishing business, and vice
president of Transit Development Consultants,
Inc. Armentrout also lectures at several
universities and to various professional societies
of planners and administrators.

Chemical Bank has named RICHARD T. CLAPP
as vice president in the corporate division. He is
in charge of corporate accounts in Fairfield
County, Conn., Westchester County, N. Y., and
northern New Jersey. Clapp earned the M.B.A.
in finance and banking from Columbia
University. He and his wife, Ellen, live in
Summit, N. J.

PATRICK B. COSTELLO was certified by the

American Board of Internal Medicine in
October 1977 and is planning a post-doctoral
fellowship training in Rheumatology. Costello
received the M.D. from Hahnemann Medical
College and Hospital in Philadelphia in 1974
and his wife, Anita, just earned her Ph.D. from
Bryn Mawr.

The American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists and the Ortho Pharmaceutical
Corp. have awarded one of their two academic
training fellowships for the 1978-79 year to
ARNOLD S. GrRaANpbIs of the Duke University
Medical Center. Grandis will use his stipend to
study the biochemistry of the placenta during
pregnancy. He received the M.D. and Ph.D.
degrees in molecular biology from Duke
University in 1974. On March 25, 1978,
Grandis was one of two Duke physicians to
deliver the first set of quadruplets born at Duke
Hospital.

CHARLES C. Lewis left the law firm of Tiffany,
Tiffany and Lewis in Warrenton, Va., to
assume the position of assistant professor of law
at Campbell College School of Law in Buies
Creek, N. C.

THOMAS L. PITTMAN JR. 1s an independent real
estate broker working on land development in
Baltimore County. Pittman and his wife, Missy,
live in Baltimore.

JAMES L. SLATTERY has been appointed general
attorney of Lukens Steel Co. and a member of
the firm’s management council. Slattery, his
wife and two children live in West Chester, Pa.

HAROLD C. STOwE is treasurer of Spring Mills,
Inc., in Fort Mill, S.C. Stowe was previously
vice president of North Carolina National
Bank.

J. JEFFREY THISTLE graduated summa cum
laude from the Nova University Law Center
and is associated with the firm of Grimditch,
Bentz, Witte and Wunker in Pompano Beach,
Fla.

1969

MARRIAGE: Sepotswoop H. WILLIAMS and
Cindy Pfister on Oct. 1, 1977. Williams lives in
Dallas and is a pilot for Continental Airlines.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Wiis M. Bau III, a
son, Christopher McNeill, on Jan. 24, 1978.
The young man joins an older brother, Philip,
who is four years old. The family lives in
Jacksonville, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs B. BATTERSON, a
son, Scott Calvin, on Aug. 19, 1977. Batterson is
a computer analyst for United Virginia Bank
and will receive the M.B.A. from the University
of Richmond in August.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. Harris Jr.,
adopted a son, John Clinton III, born Dec. 13,
1977. Harris is a partner in the law firm of
Harris and Hasseltine of Florence, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Puitre W. Norwoop,
twin daughters, Hopewell Hull and Catherine
Dalton, on March |, 1978. The twins join a two-
year-old sister, Elizabeth, at home in
Birmingham, Ala., where Norwood practices
law with the firm of North, Haskill, Slaughter,
Young and Lewis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GREGorY E. PARKER, a
daughter, Mary Kathryn, on Jan. 17, 1978, in
Winston-Salem, N.C. She joins an_ older
brother, Matthew, age 4. Parker is a member of
the Million Dollar Round Table of
Northwestern Mutual Life and is working on
his C.L.U. degree.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Gary D. SILVERFIELD, a
son, Leed Charles, on Aug. 18, 1977, in
Jacksonville, Fla. Silverfield has been elected
vice president of Mercury Luggage
Manufacturing Co.

HaAROL_pD F. GALLIVAN III was naméd senior vice
president and administrator of the Greenville
office of South Carolina National Bank in
December 1977. f

Leon D. Katz graduated magna cum laude
from the University of Maryland Dental School
where he served as president of the Student
Dental Association. Following a residency at
Sinai Hospital, Katz started a private practice in
Baltimore, Md. He is married and has two

children.

 

RICHARD E. KRAMER received the M.F.A. in
acting from Rutgers University in October
1977. Kramer has been very active in theater in
New York since then. He teaches acting to
middle school students at the Packer Collegiate
Institute in Brooklyn, plays the role of
Napoleon in Shaw’s Man of Destiny at the Drama
Committee, acts in student and independent

films, and has acted as an extra on The Edge of

Night.

THoMAS P. MITCHELL has been appointed
director of the New York State Division of
Youth Urban Homes in Dutchess County, N. Y.
Mitchell lives in Greene, N. Y., and was
formerly director of Urban Homes in
Binghamton.

Dr. THomMAS K. SLABAUGH completed his
residency in urology and entered private
practice in Lexington, Ky., on July 1, 1978.
Slabaugh and his wife have ason, Tommy, age 4
and a year-old daughter, Susie.

ROBERT J. TROTMAN produces handmade
furniture. He lives on a farm near Casar, N. C.,
with his wife, Jane, and son, Nathan.

1970

CHARLES P. CoweE Lt III is studying for the
Ph.D. in organic chemistry at the University of
California, Santa Barbara. He is doing research
in micellar catalysis. Cowell received the M.A. in
December 1976 and a California Community
College Teaching Certificate in June 1977.

The Rev. Puitre D. DOoUGLAss is assistant
minister of Fairlington Presbyterian Church in
Alexandria, Va. Douglass and his wife,
Rebecca, have four children and live in
Arlington.

GeoRGE W. HAMLIN, formerly manager of
cargo marketing and scheduling for TWA in
New York City, is now director of schedule
planning for Texas International Airlines with
offices in Houston. He and his wife, Kali, live in

Spring.

Henry L. HILts JR. received the M.F.A. from
San Francisco Art Institute, where he taught
beginning film making. He is editor of The
Cinemanews and president and founding board
member of the Foundation for Art in Cinema,
which is partially funded by the National
Endowment for the Arts. Hills’ own films have
been shown in group shows throughout the
country and were the subject of a retrospective at
The Cinematheque in San Francisco.

Davip L. HuLt is Western region controller for
the truck division of the Hertz Corp. He lives in
Fullerton, Calif.

Jack A. KirBy submitted his analysis of
“material participation” to the House Ways and
Means Committee for consideration as part of
the Technical Corrections Act to the Tax
Reform Act of 1976. Kirby has also completed a
manuscript on estate planning techniques
related to the Tax Reform Act and _ has
submitted it to the Institute for Business
Planning, Inc.

WILLIAM E. PEARSON is a member of the Harry
J. Hann and Associates Insurance Agency in
Norfolk. Pearson, his wife and son live in
Virginia Beach, Va.

MarTIN F. SCHMIDT Jr. will be teaching at the
McDonogh School in McDonogh, Md. in
September 1978.

STEPHEN L. TABAKIN 1s a C.P.A. associated with
Aaron Roesen and Co., P.C. in Newport News,
Va. Tabakin and his wife, Claudette, live in
Gloucester Point.

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. LETOURNEAU
JRr., a son, Andrew Scott, on Feb. 20, 1978, who
joins a three-year-old sister, Katie, at home in
Charlotte, N. C.

Henry J. BLACKForRD III has been promoted to
vice president by the Citizens and Southern
National Bank in Charleston, S. C.

NELSON BRINCKERHOFF Is a teacher at the Rocky
Hill School in East Greenwich, R.I. This
summer he is making an 80-day overland hike
from London to Nepal via Istanbul.

MIcHAEL W. KIRSHBAUM is_ merchandise
controller for Ups & Downs, a chain of women’s
speciality stores in New York City. He received
the M.B.A. in finance from New York
University in 1973 and taught English in Japan
for a year afterward.

ROBERT W. WILLIAMS graduated cum laude
from the Indiana University School of Law on
May 14, 1978. He was one of two recipients of
the Presidents’ Award _ for _ greatest
contributions to his law class over a three-year
period. Williams served four years in the U.S.
Army prior to law school. He expects to take the
New York State Bar Examination and _ to
practice in that state.

1972

MARRIAGE: JaMEs F. HEATWOLE and Robin Jo
Bell on Nov. 19, 1977, in Roanoke, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES K. ARNOLD, a
son, Stephen Butler, on April 19, 1978. Arnold
is an account representative with American
Fidelity Assurance Co. in Pocatello, Idaho.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LEx O. MCMILLAN III, a
son, Justin Christopher, on April 21, 1978.
McMillan is on the staff of the National Center
for Law and the Handicapped and is associate
editor of Amicus and other publications. He is
also studying for a doctorate in English at Notre
Dame. The McMillans live in South Bend, Ind.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN T. REYNOLDS, a
daughter, Elizabeth Ellen, on Dec. 31, 1977.
Reynolds is an associate with the law firm of
Green and Kaufman, Inc., in San Antonio,
‘Texas.

WILLIAM M. AGEE is an account executive with
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co. in
northern Virginia.

J. HupsSON ALLENDER graduated from Tulane
Medical School in June, 1978. He will do a
pediatric residency at Children’s Hospital in
Philadelphia.

Rosert G. Brooksy has been elected banking
officer in the National Banking Department of
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-
Salem, N. C. Brookby rejoined Wachovia after
earning his M.B.A. from Stanford University.

Dr. MarTIN D. CrarBorne III is a resident in
dermatology at Charity Hospital in New

CLASS NOTES

Orleans. He graduated from Tulane Medical
School in 1975 and is married to the former
Barbara Batt.

JosEPH R. MarTIN is senior accountant with
Hanover Petroleum Corp. in Dallas, Texas.

Mery_ D. Moore has received the J.D. degree
from the University of Virginia Law School and
will be an associate with the firm of Jones,
Blechman, Woltz and Kelly in Newport News,
Va.

KENNETH B. Murov is associated with the law
firm of L. J. Richman Jr. in Newport News. He
is also membership vice president of the Jewish
Community Center. Murov and his wife, Robin,
have twin two-year-old daughters.

Dr. W. WabeE PEERY completed a flexible
internship at Tripler Army Medical Center in
June, 1977. He is now a second-year resident at
Letterman Army Medical Center in San
Francisco, where he lives with his wife and their
young daughter, Brooke.

Joun B. Woop.trFr has been promoted to
manager in theJacksonville, Fla., office of Price
Waterhouse and Co. Woodlief has been
traveling regularly to New York and San
Francisco in his connection with litigation
brought against IBM Corp. by the U. S. Justice
Department.

1973

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. R. LAWRENCE REED II, a
son, R. Lawrence III, on Nov. 19, 1977. Reed
graduated from the University of Virginia
Medical School in May 1976 and is in a surgery
residency at William Beaumont Army Medical
Center in El Paso, Texas.

JerRop L. Gopin is assistant manager of the
Boar’s Head Inn in Charlottesville, Va.

James G. HarDwICck is an external reporting
manager of First and Merchants Corporation in
Richmond. He received the masters degree in
accounting from Virginia Tech in 1977.

EveRETT W. Newcoms III received the Doctor
of Osteopathy degree on June 5, 1978, from
Kirksville College of Osteopathic Medicine in
Kirksville, Mo. Newcomb will serve his
internship at Walter Reed Army Medical
Center. He received the Steinbaum Scholarship
and was vice president of his class for two years
in osteopathy school.

Dr. Scotr RICKOFF is a senior resident in foot
and ankle surgery at Kern Hospital in Warren,
Mich.

JOHN F. RoTHROCK and his wife, Linda, are
second year residents at the University of
Arizona Medical Center in Tucson. Rothrock is

34

in neurology and his wife in_ orthopedic
surgery.

RoBert W. SHERWOOD is an assistant cashier in
commercial lending and _ operations for
Virginia National Bank of Henry County. He is
living in Martinsville.

TIMOTHY S. WRIGHT has formed a new general
law partnership of Creekmore, Wright and
Forbes in Chesapeake, Va. Wright has just

‘completed a term as president of the Great

Bridge Jaycees.

D. P. RABUN (See 1964.)

1974

MARRIAGE: JaMEs M. (Jay) CostTan and Noel
M. Covey on Feb. 12, 1978, in Salt Lake City,
Utah. Among the wedding party were Tom
McJunkin ’70, ’74L; Grady Frank °75L; and
Bob Trout ’70. The couple is living in
Alexandria, Va.

MARRIAGE: Lewis F. Powe tt III and Isabel
Mims Maynard on June 3, 1978, in Birmingham,
Ala. Powell, a graduate of the University of Vir-
ginia Law School, will clerk for United States Dis-
trict Judge Robert Merhige in Richmond, Va.
The bride will complete her final year at the
University of Virginia Law School. The couple
took a honeymoon trip to the Caribbean.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MATTHEW B. LAMOTTE,
a son, Matthew Bardeen Jr., on May 29, 1978.
LaMotte is office manager of the Avon-Dixon
Agency, Inc. in Easton, Md.

F. Harrison Evatt taught freshman high

school English for two years in Greensboro,
N. C. He is now a sales representative for the
Myrtle Desk Co. of High Point.

Lr. Davip V. FINNELL has been assigned as
executive officer of an Army personnel service
unit in Karlsruhe, Germany. He has made plans
already to meet Jason Matthews, ’73; Steve
Corbin, ’73; and Bill Sanders, ’74, for the
Oktoberfest in Munich.

FRED W. FRICK graduated in May from Indiana
University of Medicine at Indianapolis. He will
do a residency in internal medicine at the
University of Louisville Medical Center and its
allied hospitals.

WILLIAM R. LaRosa and WILLIAM F. BEACHAM
graduated from Tulane Medical School on
June 3, 1978. LaRosa will intern in general
surgery at S.U.N.Y. at Stony Brook, N. Y., and
Beacham will work in obstetrics and gynecology
at Emory in Atlanta.

R. GLENWooD LOOKABILL, an attorney, is also
Assistant Commonwealth’s Attorney in Pulaski,
Va. He and his wife, Jane, have one daughter.

Davip C. Lorris has been named managing
editor of the Blacksburg-Christiansburg News
Messenger in Christiansburg, Va. He was a
general reporter and photographer for the

paper.

Bev H. Woop has been elected assistant vice
president in the Trust Institutional Funds
Management department of Wachovia Bank
and Trust Company in Winston-Salem, N. C.
Wood is manager of the deferred
compensation unit in that department.

 

‘Trustees:

 

Alumni Trustee Candidates

The following three candidates selected by a committee appointed by the
president of the Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., will appear
on a ballot for the election of one member to the University Board of

Thomas B. Branch III, ’58 BA, ’60 LLB
Atlanta, Georgia

Paul G. Brock, ’54 BS

Chattanooga, Tennessee

J. Thomas Touchton, ’60 BA
Tampa, Florida

PU LIVLPr

The ballot is expected to be mailed to each alumnus in August 1978.

 

 

1975

MARRIAGE: James V. Barirp and Carolyn
Hedge on March 18, 1978. Jerry M. Baird, ’78;
Richard M. Koch, ’75; Clifton O. Overcash Wt.
‘74; and John D. Rosen, ’77; were at the
wedding, Baird graduated from S.M.U. Law
School on May 20, 1978, and will practice tax
law with the firm of Andrews, Kurth, Campbell
and Jones in Houston.

MARRIAGE: CarTER Hays Moore and Frances
E. Sleeper on June 17, 1977. Moore is a
December, 1977, graduate of the University of
Houston Law School. He is employed by Daniel
K. ‘Trevino, an attorney, and the First Equitable
Title Co. in Houston.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RicHarp K. Cooksey, a
son, Richard Scott, on Aug. 17, 1977. Cooksey is
in his third year at the University of Alabama
School of Medicine in Birmingham.

SAMUEL M. BELL is an officer in the Corporate
Banking division of the First National Bank of
Maryland in Baltimore.

ROBERT S. BONNEY JR. lives in Plainsboro, N. J.,
and is an assistant United States attorney for the
district of New Jersey. j
Juttan T. Evans III is attending law school at
the University of Mississippi.

Ranpy L. Fuk is working for the First
National Bank in Dallas, Texas. He plays
softball on a Dallas League team named “The
Generals.” Other players include Bill Biesel,
75; Guy Kerr, ’75; David Smith, ’74; Billy
Moomaw, ’76; and Al Bettis, ’75.

ROBERT C. FLoyp lives in Columbia, S. C., and
works in systems support for Burroughs Corp.
in the Columbia and Greenville areas.

PAuL L. Gorsucu Jr. has completed two years
of study at Thomas Jefferson Medical College.

ROBERT M. LANDeR II is attending the Detroit
College of Law.

JONATHAN A. Lawson Jr. is working for the
Baldwin Piano and Organ Co. in Cincinnati as a
management trainee. In his free time, Lawson
will pursue the M.B.A. degree from Xavier
University.

Louts LELAuRIN III graduated from St. Mary’s
University Law School in August, 1977, and was
admitted to the Texas Bar in February. He
clerks for U.S. District Court Judge Adrian A.
Spears and plans to enter private practice in
January 1979.

D. SHANE MCALISTER is a fourth-year student
at Duke University Medical School. He has been

chosen the Davison Scholar for 1978 and will
spend July and August working in England
with a physician in general practice.

TURNER MCGEHEE is working as a professional
printmaker. He has had several one-man shows
in the Lexington area and his works have also
been in a number of group exhibits. McGehee
will begin work on the M.F.A. in September at
the University of North Carolina at
Greensboro.

JOHN F. Parks received the M.B.A. in
International Business in May 1977 from the
American Graduate School of International
Management. He lives in Orlando, Fla., and isa
salesman for Colgate-Palmolive, Inc.

RICHARD L. Simms III is an account executive
with Merrill Lynch in Atlanta. He is also
attending law school at night.

WILLIAM L. WARREN Jr. is studying for a
masters of divinity degree at the Southern
Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville. He
plans to graduate in June 1978.

JAMES WILSON has been named advertising
manager of the Galax Gazette, a Landmark
Community Newspaper Group publication in
Galex, Va. He is responsible for all retail and
classified advertising for the paper. Wilson had
been an advertising/sales representative for the
Roanoke Times.

ROBERT WYCOFF Jr. is studying for the Florida
Bar. He plans to practice in the Palm Beach
area.

DouGtas V. Davis (See 1965.)

1976

Davip R. Braun has been promoted to
production supervisor in the Life, Health and
Financial Services division of The Travelers
Insurance Co. Braun is based at the Milwaukee
field office and completed the marketing
associate program there in June 1978.

HUNTER N. CHARBONNET received the Silver
Award from the Million Dollar Club of
Louisiana for selling over a million dollars in
real estate in 1977. He lives in New Orleans.

VERNON E. O’Berry Jr. is studying for the M.S.
degree in biology at the University of
Richmond.

WILLIAM W. PiFer, after working as a staff
member with the Republican Party of Virginia,
was Campaign manager for Nathan Miller’s U.S.
Senate nomination race.

After two years as manager of the W&L record
store and director of the V.M.I. Theater, HUGH

J. SISSON is enrolling in the M.F.A. program in
directing at the Graduate School of Drama at
the University of Virginia. In preparation for
his studies, Sisson is employed with the U.Va.
summer theater.

Scott M. STEVENSON is completing his second
year at Wake Forest Law School. He is secretary
of the Student Bar Association.

JAMES H. MALONEY (See 1964.)

1977
MARRIAGE: CuristTIAN Gustav Dietz III and

Anne Pemberton Long on May 20, 1978, in
Scituate, Mass.

JOHN R. BUCKTHAL is an exploration geologist
for Bonray Energy Corp. in Oklahoma City.

Lr. PHILire J. ENRICO JR. is stationed at Ft.
Kobbe in the Panama Canal Zone. He is serving
as a forward observer for Battery B of the 22nd
Field Artillery, 193rd Infantry Brigade.

JAMES N. Fak is director of the language
program at the Middle East Institute in
Washington, D.C. He also is editor of a bi-
monthly newsletter.

BRADLEY FRETZ is a group policy representative
for Aetna Life and Casualty Co. and lives in
Indianapolis, Ind.

STEVEN N. GABELMAN is teaching assistant at
Georgia Tech in Atlanta while working on his
master’s degree in chemistry.

THEODORE L. UHLMAN Jr. is production
coordinator at the Philadelphia plant of
International Paper Co.

PAMELA J. WHITE spent a month backpacking
through Europe. She is associated with the law
firm of Ober, Grimes and Shriver in Baltimore.

1978
MARRIAGE: Howarp W. Dickinson: and
Pamela Joyce Tilton on April 22, 1978, in
Johnstown, Pa. Dickinson is a news reporter for
WWBT Television in Richmond, Va.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1916

JOHN W. May Jr., a former sales representative
with the William Lynn Chemical Co. of In-
dianapolis, Ind., died May 6, 1978. May, who
entered the laundry business in 1920, practiced
law from 1916 to 1920. He was a member of the

35

IN MEMORIAM

American Institute of Laundries. May was also

a member of the Indianapolis Museum of Art
and a Deacon and Elder of the Second Presby-
terian Church.

1918

CHARLES ASHBY Camp, former owner of a frozen
foods firm, Hampton Co., of Estill, S. C., anda
retired acquisition agent for the South Carolina
State Highway Department, died in January,
1978. Atone time Camp was connected with the
Davison Chemical Corp. and operated out of
Petersburg, Va., as well as Alliance, Ohio and
Savannah, Ga.

1919

RAYMOND CoomsBs TILL, a retired executive di-
rector of the Marblehead, Mass., Housing Au-
thority, died Feb. 15, 1978. Till was a member
of the Masons and the American Legion, having
served in both World War I and World War II.

1921

ALBERT Dobson Burk, engaged for many years
in the wood preserving business and last associ-
ated with the Olin Mathieson Chemical Corp.,
died in Baton Rouge, La., Jan. 21, 1978. At one
time Burk had served with Koppers Co. wood
preserving division and the American Lumber
and Treating Co. He was a member of the
American Wood Preserving Association.

1922

WILLIAM FREDERICK LIVINGSTON, a most re-
spected businessman of Clinton, Mo., died April
8, 1978. Livingston was one of the original di-
rectors of the First National Bank, of which he
had continued to serve. He was owner of the
Clinton Farm Loan and Title Co. and a member
of the American Title Association. For many
years Livingston served as secretary of the Board
of Education. He first entered business in Clin-
ton in 1923 in the abstract and insurance busi-
ness. He was a charter member and a past com-
mander of the Clem P. Dickinson American
Legion Post #14.

1923

Harry BoyKIN WALL, a registered professional
engineer and president of APT Construction
Co., died June 1, 1978 in Little Rock, Ark.
Formerly, Wall had been associated with
Arkansas Highway Department and with the
U. S. Fidelity & Guaranty Co. in various
engineering capacities. He was a member of the
American Society of Professional Engineers.

1924

JoHN Epwarp WELLS, who was in the lumber
and plywood business in Laurel, Miss., for
many years, died Sept. 30, 1977. In addition to
his business in Laurel, Wells had also, at one

36

time, been president of Bay Building Supplies
in Tampa, Fla., and the Wells Plywoods
Company of Birmingham, Ala.

1928

Epwarp M. (Buck) STREIT, prominent busi-
nessman and former safety engineer with the
United States Steel Co. in Fairfield and
Birmingham, Ala., died after along illness June
3, 1978. Streit was in the real estate business
from 1938 to 1940. Prior to his real estate
business he had been a salesman for Corn
Products Sales Co. He joined U.S. Steel in 1940.
While at Washington and Lee Streit was an
outstanding member of the football squad and
the wrestling team.

1929

GEORGE BRUCE MCPHERSON, former owner and
manager of the McPherson Co., an engineering
firm in Greenville, S. C., died in that city on Dec.
16, 1977.

1930

THoMAS DICKINSON SHUMATE, who practiced
law in the Richmond, Ky., area for over 38
years, died May 5, 1978. Shumate began
practicing in 1940 with Shumate and Shumate
and later with Shumate, Shumate and Flaherty
with offices in both Richmond and Irvine, Ky.
Shumate was a member of the American,
Kentucky and Madison County — Bar
Associations. He was also a member of the
Madison County Civil War Round Table and
the Madison County Historical Society.

1933

Davip MINGE Jackson, formerly engaged in
the insurance business in Richmond and more
recently the owner of the Richmond Delivery
Service, died Jan. 31, 1978, in Richmond. He
was a veteran of World War II.

1936

JouHN RosBerT Tay.or, formerly a resident of
Lexington and Buena Vista, Va., and a teacher
at both Washington and Lee and VMI, died at
his home in Swarthmore, Pa., May 13, 1978.
Taylor joined American Viscose Corp. in 1946
as a chemist and later moved to the company’s
plant at Marcus Hook, where he rose to the
position of product development director. He
retired in 1974 because of ill health.

1938

WILLIAM FRANCIS SAUNDERS, a resident of
Ridgewood, N. J., and a partner in the New
York City law firm of Dunnington, Bartholow
& Miller, died May 15, 1978. Saunders, the first
editor of the Washington and Lee Law Review,
had been practicing law in New York since
graduation in 1940. He was a trustee of the

Valley Hospital in Ridgewood and a member of
the Union League Club in New York City.

1942

RALPH HENRY STEWART, Owner of a resort
motel, the Vagabond, near St. Petersburg, Fla.,
died April 14, 1978. Before going to Florida in
1967 to manage the motel, Stewart had been
associated with Diamond Alkali Corp., Lubrizol
and Allied Chemical Corp.

1945

THE Rev. LEE Oscar MorRTZFELDT died in
Richmond, Va., March 23, 1978. His last
assignment was with the Boulevard United
Methodist Church in Richmond where he had
served for more than four years. Other
appointments, all in the Virginia Conference of
the United Methodist Church, were in
Waterford, Fairfield, Covington, Middleburg,
Manassas, Newport News, and three churches
in Norfolk.

1946

Dr. Davin Lewis, a practicing dentist in
Wheaton, Md., died in February 1978. Lewis
had obtained a law degree from Catholic
University in 1961. He also was a professor of
biology at Wheaton High School and was coach
of the wrestling and football teams. Lewis was
very active in the Wheaton Boys Club and
coached their football team and wrestling teams
to several league championships.

1956

Dr. JOHN WILLIAM DUNCAN, a Richmond, Va.,
dentist, died May 30, 1978. Duncan began his
practice in 1966. He served in the U.S. Army
Dental Corps in West Germany from 1960
to 1963. He later studied and_ practiced
dentistry at the Charles Vallotton Clinic in
Lausanne, Switzerland. Duncan was a former
director of the Richmond Dental Society and a
former public information chairman for the
Virginia Dental Association. In addition, he
made television and radio appearances for the
American Dental Association. Duncan was an
actor in local theatrical groups and was also a
past president of the former Virginia Museum
Theater Associates.

1966

JAMES MCCLINTOCK BryYAN, a noted expert on
pest control who had been invited by the
Indonesian Government to supervise a project
designed to protect rice from the ravages of
insects, died March 12, 1978, in Djakarta. He
formerly lived in Shaker Heights, Ohio. Bryan,
a Canadian citizen for the past five years and a
resident of Vancouver, B. C., was affiliated with
the International Development and Reserach
Center of Canada. He held a masters degree in
pestology from Simon Fraser University in
Vancouver. He had done graduate work in
biology at the University of California at
Berkeley.

 

 

Shenandoah

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

VY titers like these appear in SHENANDOAH:

ROBERT PENN WARREN ROBERT LOWELL
ALLEN TATE RICHARD HOWARD
PETER TAYLOR REYNOLDS PRICE
ELIZABETH BISHOP W. S. MERWIN

Roy FULLER JOYCE CAROL OATES

Won't you subscribe to Washington and Lee
University’s award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, and criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
[_] One year @ $5.00 L| Two years @ $8.00
My check for $ enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

City State Zip

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

CL,

HOMECOMING

  

 

 

FALL CLASS REUNIONS
OCTOBER 13-14

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of 1933, 1943, 1948, 1958, and 1973

 

And Homecoming for All
October 14

Washington and Lee vs. Hampden-Sydney
| 1:30 p.m. at Wilson Field

 

 

 

