 

 

 

es

ee aie

 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 52, Number 1, January 1977

William C. Washburn, 740......00000000cccccceeceeeeeeeeeee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman..............0....... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68.00.0000... eee Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel.......00.0000... Editorial Assistants

Sally Mann ooo... occcccceseteteseetteseee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Liz and John in Lexington 20... ]
Library Receives Johnston Papers ...........00..00....... 5
Dean Light Dies at 73 ooo. 7
W&L Geologists Map the ‘Terrain .......0..0..000.0.... 8
... And Psychologists, the Brain .........00...00........ 9
Campus News Roundup oo... 10
‘The Discovery of Louise Herreshoff .......0.0.00...... 14
Chapter News oii 27
Class Notes ec cetectteeteeeeeeeeeeeee, 29
In Memoriam 22oo..........cc ccc ceceeeeeceeceeeeeeeeee: 35

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

‘THomaS B. Brancu III, 758, Atlanta, Ga.
President

J. Tuomas ‘ToucuTon, 60, ‘Tampa, Fla.
Vice President

CHARLES C. STiIEFF II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
Treasurer

WiLiiAM C. Wasnsurn, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, '63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, 757, ‘Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DupbLey, 758, Richmond, Va.

Epwin J. Foutz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.

Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HO tis, ’51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.

Jerry G. Soutn, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
ROBERT M. WHITE II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

—_
=

ON THE COVERS: The art world was taken by, storm
this fall when 88 remarkable paintings by Louise Herre-
shoff had their national premiere in Washington’s Cor-
coran Gallery of Art. Her career as an artist had lasted
only from 1897 to 1926; later she married Euchlin D.
Reeves, a 1927 law graduate of Washington and Lee,
and 10 years ago they gave the paintings and their other
art treasures (including the famed Reeves Porcelain
Collection) to W&L. On the front cover, Sword Lilies
(oil, ca 1920); on the back cover, Le Repos (oil, 1899).
An article about Louise Herreshoff: An American Ar-
tist Discovered and five more color reproductions are

on pages 14-23.

 

 

 

by Robert S. Keefe, 68

A visitor from Hollywood

captivates the campus

 

At V.M.I. news conference...

The newspaper headlines tell it best. “Elizabeth Taylor
Casts Spell Over Lexington, 2 Schools.” “Fans Agog, Cynics
Converted.” “Students, Press Swarm to Catch Glimpse Of Liz.”
“Drama Students Hang Onto Her Every Word.” “Liz Hits
Stride At W&L.”

It all started a long time ago, when John W. Warner, a 1949
Washington and Lee graduate and a member of the Board of
Trustees since 1968, accepted an invitation to help next-door

...and on the back campus mall

Photos by Sally Mann

Liz and John in Lexington

 

 

With President Huntley on the front lawn .. .

Virginia Military Institute celebrate the 201st birthday of the
U.S. Marine Corps and to deliver VMI’s Founders’ Day ad-
dress.

It was logical that Warner should be the honored guest at
the VMI ceremonies. His last official act as Secretary of the
Navy, the post he had held before becoming head of the na-
tion’s Bicentennial Administration, had been to sign the order
creating a Naval ROTC unit at the Institute.

But a funny thing happened to Warner on the way to VMI.
Last spring he met Elizabeth Taylor, who, in case you’ve been
on another planet, is the celebrated actress and legendary
beauty.

And they fell in love.

So when Warner came to Lexington for his VMI appear-
ances, he brought his fiancee with him, the same as any other
W&L man would when he returned. (Warner told audiences
here that his own father, also a W&L graduate, had wanted
his bride-to-be to see for herself the school that had influenced
him so strongly, and so he brought her to see the University
shortly before they were married. Warner said he thought he
should do the same for Miss Taylor.)

She was just back from Europe, where she had starred in
the film version of the hit musical “A Little Night Music.” And
it struck her that since she would be visiting a college town, and
not just any college town, but her future husband’s college
town, she might offer to meet with drama students. Would
W&L wish her to conduct a seminar or workshop?

2

 

... and after a visit to Lee Chapel

The W&L theatre at the time was in rehearsal for Doctor
Faustus—in which Miss Taylor had starred in England. The
group had long planned to present as one of its major produc-
tions in the winter term Who’s Afraid Of Virginia Woolf?—for
which Miss Taylor had won one of her two Academy Awards.
And, after all, Elizabeth Taylor is . . . well, Elizabeth Taylor.
Not in a long while has there been a more emphatic “yes.”

When the couple arrived in town, they were met by 20 or 25
reporters and photographers (their number swelled to 50 or so
for a VMI press conference the next day). Warner took Miss
Taylor on a walking tour of the two schools. They posed
patiently, graciously, while enough pictures were taken every
step of the way to have gladdened the hearts of the accountants
at Eastman Kodak. And even the members of the press, who
pride theniselves on their objectivity, if not downright skepti-
cism, began to melt.

At first, the students tried to be blase. Not too many were in
sight when they began their tour. But by the time they reached
Lee Chapel, suddenly little bands of W&L men began to ap-
pear from nowhere, more and more of them in the next few
minutes, all drifting nonchalantly down the front lawn. (“I
swore | wasn’t going to get excited,” the Washington Post report-
er overheard one student lament to his girlfriend.) Though
there had been no formal publicity, campus regulars observed
that more students just happened to have been on the Hill that
afternoon than there had ever been after classes before.

Apparently, the cadets at VMI were less prepared. One rat

 

=<

 

Visitors on the Colonnade . . .

in a hurry almost collided with the entourage in front of the
Barracks, and when he looked up and saw whom he had come
close to knocking down, he did a double-take that everyone
agreed was a classic. The word swept through the Barracks at
jet speed, and all the newspapers the next day ran a photo of a
group of cadets watching from a second-floor stoop—one of
whom hadn’t had time to put on more than a bathrobe.

The Marine Corps birthday party the night of their arrival
in Lexington was private. But when the couple left the Lee
House on campus, where they were staying as guests of W&L,
they found a not-so-small crowd waiting at the end of the drive-
way. They were a little bit late for the VMI event—but Miss
Taylor stopped everything and walked down in her formal
white gown and blue sable coat to say hello and chat for a
moment.

The news conference the next morning was the first time
they’d formally met the media for Q&A. The session took place
in VMI’s library, and as the Associated Press reported it, “the
feminine sighs of envy were audible. Tension showed in the
faces of the men who, upon Miss Taylor’s entrance, sucked
their sagging midriffs into a semblance of broad chests.”

Warner has been much talked about, then and now, asa po-
tential Republican candidate for the U.S. Senate next year (the
incumbent, William Scott, has said he won’t run for re-elec-
tion). But Warner consistently dodged the reporters’ ques-
tions, repeating whenever one of them rephrased it a little that
he was unwilling to take advantage of the hospitality of VMI

 

 

...and on the V.M.I. parade grounds

and W&L to promote his own political ambitions.

When it came Miss Taylor’s turn, she brought the report-
ers full circle. They asked her what she thought of the idea that
Warner might run for office. She told them “My aspirations
are John’s aspirations,” flashed the widest smile ever seen in
Lexington, and had them instantly charmed.

Founders’ Day at VMI came the week after the Presidential
election, long before President-elect Carter named the strate-
gic members of his cabinet, but in his major address, Warner
predicted Carter would back off from his promises during the
campaign to trim defense spending substantially and “will con-
tinue the current buildup of our national defense, with the
support of the Congress and the people of the United States.”

Warner said Americans have shown they want the nation’s
military posture to be second to that of no other country, and
if it becomes necessary, the people themselves will “take charge
and voice the national interest”—as they have done on other
occasions, notably the Bicentennial, he said.

The drama seminar (if that’s the right word for a session
with 146 students and one guest lecturer) took place that after-
noon, after the VMI Founders’ Day ceremonies. There were
no tape recorders, and picture-taking was limited, to allow the
event to remain as informal and unstaged as possible.

It was bitter cold outside; there had been a VMI parade to
review between the news conference and the Founders’ Day
speech—and so by the afternoon Miss Taylor was caught with a
bad throat. But rather than cancel her appointment with the

3

Liz and John in Lexington

 

 

In the Troubadour Theatre for an afternoon session on drama. . .

drama students, she arranged for a microphone, and the ses-
sion went according to schedule.

After it was over, she said she had been nervous; she had
never taught a college class before. But she jumped in as if she
were a veteran professor, and everyone was awed. Except for
comparisons (among her leading men, for example) and Vir-
ginia politics, nothing was out of bounds. She talked about life
as a child actress, about Hollywood studio intrigue and the
“star” system, about film critics and her view of the Academy
Awards (“I’m all for them—I’ve got two,” she said), about art,
about Virginia Woolf (her favorite role was that of Martha) and
how she rehearsed for it, worked into a convincing perform-
ance as a woman on the downhill side of middle age when in
fact Miss Taylor was 32.

‘Toward the end, somebody asked her if she feared she had
fallen into a “rut.”

“I don’t believe I’ve ever been in a rut in my life,” she said
with her characteristic, infectious little laugh. She looked at
Warner—who a month later would become her seventh hus-
band—and told the audience, almost as an afterthought,
“variety is the spice of life... .”

Later that same afternoon, Warner and Miss Taylor were
the special guests at a reception given by W&L’s College Re-
publican Club. There were more questions-and-answers, in-
evitably, and when they left to catch a plane back to Wash-
ington, they were serenaded with the “W&L Swing.”

As they stepped into the car, Warner looked back and shout-
ed to the 300 or 400 who were there: “Only a Washington and
Lee man could have done this!”

4

 

_.. 146 students were in rapt attention

Gift of Johnston papers enhances

library’s manuscript collection

The papers of Zachariah Johnston,
the farmer-statesman who represented
Augusta and Rockbridge counties in the
Virginia legislature during the Revolu-
tion and the formative years of the state
and nation, have been donated to W&L’s
McCormick Library.

The material, consisting of nearly 540
items and including letters from some of
the most prominent men in Virginia and
American history, greatly augments the
library’s growing collection of primary
sources dealing with the political and cul-
tural history of the Valley of Virginia and
the westward movement through the
Valley to Kentucky.

The Johnston papers were the gift of
M. W. Paxton, retired Lexington lawyer
and newspaperman. He is a 1918 alum-
nus of Washington and Lee and a 1920
graduate of its law school. He inherited
the papers about seven years ago from his
cousins, the Misses Ann and Susan John-
stone of Rockbridge County, whose fam-
ily preserved them for six generations. (In
later years, the family reverted to the ori-
ginal Scottish spelling of the name.)

Paxton said he had been thinking
about giving the collection to McCormick
for several years and decided to do so at
the urging of his family.

“We want the papers to be readily
available to students and other research-
ers, and we believe McCormick is the best
place for that,” Paxton said. “The library
in recent years has done an excellent job
of organizing and preserving its manu-
script collections.”

Maurice D. Leach Jr., head librarian,
said the Johnston papers “are the most
valuable we have received in recent
years.” He characterized the gift as “an af-
firmation of faith in McCormick as the
proper archive for historically important
manuscripts, particularly those dealing
with the development of the Valley and
the western migration.”

He noted that the Paxton gift of John-
ston family papers enhances an earlier ac-
quisition of Johnston materials, consisting
mainly of petitions and instructions to
Zachariah Johnston while he was a mem-

M. W. Paxton goes over Zachariah Johnston papers, which he donated to McCormick Library, with Librarian

 

Maurice D. Leach Jr. (right) and Mrs. Ollinger Crenshaw, assistant in special collections.

ber of the General Assembly from Augus-
ta (1778-92) and from Rockbridge (1797-
98). He noted too that the Johnston pa-
pers dovetail with the library’s William
Fleming collection, which bears heavily
upon movement into Kentucky from the
Valley.

The Johnston papers date from 1747
to 1869, with the largest group in the
period 1780 to 1800, the year of Zacha-
riah Johnston’s death at the age of 56. In-
cluded are many business items—bills, re-
ceipts, transfers, notes and the like—
which yield knowledge about the com-
merce of the period. More significant is
the correspondence, chiefly letters ad-
dressed to Zachariah Johnston, dealing
with business, government, and family af-
fairs. These items offer insight into the
temper of that turbulent but fruitful time
in American history.

Zachariah Johnston was born in 1774
and lived most of his life in Augusta
County. He attended Liberty Hall Acad-
emy and was an early trustee (1793-1800)

of Washington College (both institutions
were predecessors of Washington and
Lee). He served 14 years in the legislature
from Augusta and one term from Rock-
bridge, where he moved in 1792. He was
also a delegate to the Virginia Convention
of 1788 that ratified the Federal Constitu-
tion. He owned large tracts of land in Au-
gusta, Rockbridge, and in Kentucky.

He emerges as a man of serious mind
and fierce integrity, deeply religious,
keenly interested in the affairs of his day,
devoted to his family, direct and fearless
in his dealings, and respected by his
fellow citizens and fellow lawmakers.

Among his papers are one letter from
James Monroe, three from George
Mason, three from Edmund Randolph,
three from “Light-Horse Harry” Lee, and
a fragment of a letter from John Mar-
shall.

Included too is a facsimile of a 1790
letter from Thomas Jefferson, inviting
Johnston to stop by Monticello “on your
way down” to a legislative session so that

5

Johnston Papers

 

they could discuss a subject that “can only
be opened in private conference.”

George Mason wrote him in 1790 ask-
ing him to support James Monroe for a
vacant seat in the U.S. Senate. Monroe,
then a Senator, wrote him in 1791 from
Philadelphia outlining his opposition to a
bill in Congress to increase the ratio of
representation as contemplated in the
Constitution and informing him of the
beginning diplomatic relations with Great
Britain. “Light-Horse Harry” Lee wrote
him concerning the disposition of land in
Kentucky and regretting his inability to
pay a debt. John Marshall and Edmund
Randolph were his counsel in some busi-
ness matters and wrote him about those
affairs.

Johnston’s son John wrote many let-
ters from Philadelphia, where he had
gone to study medicine. In 1791, he
wrote his father that he “had a very clear
proof of the utility or happy effect” of the
vaccine against smallpox, which was in its
trial stages. In 1790, he wrote a glowing
report of the celebration in Philadelphia
of Independence Day, then 15 years old.

Johnston had 11 children, and at least
one of his sons migrated to Kentucky and
reported to his father on conditions there.
His correspondence with his children
provides a close glimpse of pioneer family
life in the formative years of the nation.

Johnston was an admirer of George
Washington, and in 1789 he was chosen a
presidential elector from the Botetourt
district to cast the district vote for General
Washington. The certificate naming him
an elector and signed by the sheriffs of
various counties is among his papers.

He was a conscientious and able repre-
sentative of the people of his county in the
legislature. He was a leader in the struggle
to enact Virginia’s famous statute of re-
ligious freedom, and through his persua-
sion and his vote he was instrumental in
bringing about Virginia’s ratification of
the Constitution.

And among his papers is an eloquent
argument in the form of a legislative peti-
tion for the gradual abolition of slavery.
“If it were totally abolished, it would do

6

 

Copy of letter from “Light-Horse Harry” Lee to Zachariah Johnston concerning land in Kentucky.

much good,” he had declared in the argu-
ment over slavery during the debate on
the Constitution.

Johnston did not live to see this issue
ravage the nation he had helped establish.

He died in 1800 and lies beneath the great
spreading white oak in Stonewall Jackson
Cemetery. But now, not far from there,
his life’s record lies preserved for the
benefit of all in McCormick Library.

 

Charles Porterfield Light Jr., a teach-
er for 47 years in the Washington and Lee
School of Law and its dean for eight, died
Nov. 19 following a long illness. He was
73.

Dean Light was one of W&L’s legen-
dary figures, and his influence reached to
the highest levels of the legal profession.
When he retired from teaching in 1973,
he received accolades from Chief Justice
Warren E. Burger and from Supreme
Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., whom
Dean Light had taught at Washington
and Lee.

His principal fields of teaching were
constitutional and administrative law and
torts. More than 100 of his alumni—“the
Light brigade”’—currently hold federal
judgeships. Two of his students were
elected presidents of the American Bar
Association, Mr. Powell and the late Ross
L. Malone. Many of America’s largest cor-
porations have Dean Light’s graduates as
their general counsel.

He was born Dec. 29, 1902, in Martins-
burg, W.Va., the son of the late Charles
Porterfield and Margaret Harlan Light.
He was a 1923 graduate of Virginia Mili-
tary Institute and earned his law degree in
1926 from Harvard University. He joined
the W&L law faculty in that year. In 1928,
V.M.I. awarded him an M.A. degree for
postgraduate work in political science.

Dean Light was a vestryman and mem-
ber of the board of trustees of the R. E.
Lee Episcopal Church in Lexington for
many years. He was also a member of the
Alfalfa Club in Washington and a life
member of the American Bar Institute.
He belonged to many other professional
and honorary societies, including Phi
Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, the
Order of the Coif, the American Judica-
ture Society, and the American, Virginia,
and Virginia State Bar Associations.

He became dean of the W&L law
school in 1960. He first stepped down
from that post in 1967, when he reached
65, the mandatory retirement age for ad-
ministrators, and resumed full-time
teaching.

But his retirement from the deanship
turned out to be short-lived. He had been
succeeded by Robert E. R. Huntley—who
also had studied under Dean Light—but
less than a year later, Huntley was elected
W&L president, and Dean Light was call-
ed back into service as law dean until a
permanent successor could be named.

President Huntley commented:
“Dean Light’s death is an incalculable loss

Charles

Porterfield
Light

1902-1976

     

Dean Charles P. Light Jr., from a portrait owned
by the University.

to me personally, and to his other col-
leagues and alumni and friends. And it is
that kind of loss not only to Washington
and Lee, but also to the legal profession
he served so long and in so many exem-
plary ways.

“IT was his student and faculty col-
league; he was my dean, and for a short
while I was even his dean. And most im-
portant of all, he was my friend, a friend-
ship I have always treasured deeply—and
which I will remember warmly, and miss
so much.”

Dean Light was commissioned a
second lieutenant in the Army Reserve in
1923, was promoted to major in the Judge
Advocate General corps in 1940, and rose
to the rank of colonel by 1944.

Ever since that wartime service—for
which he was awarded the Legion of
Merit—his family and closest friends call-
ed him “Judge.” He remained active as a
reserve judge advocate until 1963.

When Dean Light retired from the
classroom three years ago, Chief Justice
Burger praised his “dedication to legal
education and scholarship” and his “fine

leadership” in law. Mr. Burger had come
to know Dean Light in the former’s capa-
city as the Supreme Court justice in
charge of reviewing Fourth Circuit Court
of Appeals matters for the Supreme
Court. The Fourth Circuit includes Vir-
ginia.

On the same occasion, Justice Powell
—who was a student of Mr. Light’s from
1928 to 1931—recalled him as “an excep-
tionally stimulating professor” and a
“widely admired and respected” leader in
American legal education.

And in an article he wrote, also at the
time of Dean Light’s retirement, Mr.
Powell credited Dean Light with having
helped enlarge and strengthen W&L’s
law faculty, upgrade the curriculum, and
bring the Washington and Lee law school
“to the attention of the profession na-
tionally.

“But most of all,” Justice Powell wrote,
“those of us privileged to have been his
pupils and friends ever since have felt and
appreciated the warmth and sincerity of
his personality. We have admired the
depth and dedication of his scholarship.
Our University has been blessed to have
had Charlie Light for so many years.”

W&cL President Huntley, in an article
he wrote also on Dean Light’s retirement,
recalled his former teacher’s manner in
the classroom. “Professor Light taught me
torts. His boundless vitality and enthusi-
asm rubbed off on even the dullest of us
students. He would move constantly
around the raised platform, answering
our unimaginative questions just as if he’d
never heard them before, hammering
home his points with force—always with a
sure sense of where the edges of the plat-
form were.

“T bet he never taught the same course
the same way twice, never thinking he’d
found quite the right way to do it, and
probably never expecting he would. He is
a great teacher, always getting better in-
stead of slowly sliding downhill, which is
the tempting and easy thing to do.

“People have trouble being pompous
around him, even lawyers and judges....
And if this younger generation is as smart
as it thinks it is, they'll get to know him
too—and be better lawyers for it, and bet-
ter people too.”

Dean Light is survived by his wife, the
former Ethel Pearcy Kinnear, whom
he married in 1942, by two daughters,
Mrs. Paul Cressor III of Marion, Ohio,
and Mrs. Edward L. Flippen of Rich-
mond, and by four grandchildren.

EE ERS SE OS OE a FR eT TE TE aE Et

7

 

Geologists
ma
the terrain

As land-use planning becomes more
and more important, so do detailed geo-
logical surveys and analyses. And in a
good-size part of western Virginia, the
surveys come from Washington and Lee’s
geology department.

With the publication of a report this
winter on the Daleville area—the 14th
“quadrangle” mapped and analyzed by
W&L geology teachers since 1965—mem-
bers of the department broke the 1,000-
square-mile mark in area covered.

The Daleville report is by Dr. Odell S.
McGuire. It’s his fifth 7%-minute quad-
rangle (2.e., approximately 60 square
miles). Daleville is just south of Buch-
anan, halfway between Lexington and
Roanoke; the quadrangle includes part of
Tinker Mountain, a familiar landmark to
anyone who ever dated at Hollins College.

The reports are commissioned and
published by the Virginia Division of Min-
eral Resources. They examine topo-
graphy and terrain, surface and buried
rock formations, faults (which abound in
the western part of the state, W&L’s
geologists note), soil, water sources both
above and below—in short, every detail of
configuration, on the surface and _be-
neath it, that can be of use or interest to

 

Dr. Odell S. McGuire

 

... And
psychologists

the brain

Significant increases in the scientist’s
understanding of memory, learning, and
brain disorders have resulted from the re-
search of three members of Washington
and Lee’s psychology department.

Two of the W&L psychology pro-
fessors, Drs. David G. Elmes and Joseph
E. Thompson, have developed a new way
to measure the mental images produced
in the brain by words. Their method leads
to more precise analysis of the role of such
mental imagery in learning, memory, and
meaning than previous research methods
allowed.

Their joint study, “Magnitude Estima-
tion of Imagery,” is published in the Bul-
letin of the Psychonomic Society. Psychonomy
is the branch of psychology which focuses
on mental imagery.

In the same field, Elmes has also suc-
ceeded in identifying the relationship be-
tween two important ingredients in
human memorization—the manner in
which the learner “rehearses” the infor-
mation to be remembered, and the specif-

ic nature of the way in which his brain
“processes” the information. Elaborate
rehearsal together with variety in prac-
tice, according to Elmes’ research, deter-
mine the accuracy with which informa-
tion is retained.

He presented his findings recently at a
meeting of the Psychonomic Society.
Elmes’ investigations were supported by
a Robert E. Lee Research Grant from
WEL.

And new research by Dr. Leonard E.
Jarrard, head of the W&L psychology de-
partment, has indicated that the portion
of the brain known as the hippocampus
contains at least two major separate parts
with separate functions. Previously, it has
been considered a single brain com-
ponent with a single function.

The hippocampus is intimately involv-
ed not only with memory but also with
epilepsy, and Jarrard’s conclusions may

 

 

everyone from other scholars to highway-
builders.

The geological surveys are “a basic
tool of land-use planning” by state and
local governments, and are also instru-
mental in mineral exploration and similar
enterprises, McGuire notes.

The reports include a 1:24,000-scale
topographical map and an intricate data
analysis (the average is about 50 pages
long). Because of the scope of the projects
and the minute scientific detail each re-
port must contain, they can hardly be
done quickly; it took McGuire three sum-
mers, for instance, to gather the informa-
tion for his Daleville study.

McGuire’s quadrangles have been
mostly in Botetourt County (where Dale-
ville is located). Dr. Edgar W. Spencer,
head of the department, has surveyed
four quadrangles in Rockbridge; Dr.
Samuel J. Kozak, another professor of
geology, has completed four quadrangles
in Augusta County, to the northwest of
Lexington, and a 15-minute quadrangle
(about 240 square miles) in Bath County,
west of Augusta.

 

Dr. Samuel J]. Kozak

 

Dr. Edgar W. Spencer

 

 

have important implications not only for
an understanding of memory but also for
isolating the causes of epilepsy and—per-
haps eventually—how to treat it.

His research, conducted primarily on
rats, continues to be supported by grants
from the National Science Foundation.
Jarrard’s latest findings help explain why
contradictory results have been reported
by many other investigators. His recent
article on the topic is carried in the cur-
rent issue of the Journal of Comparative and
Physiological Psychology.

Jarrard, a former chairman of the
graduate program in psychology at Car-
negie-Mellon University, spent the 1975-
76 academic year as a visiting professor at
Oxford University in England.

 

Dr. Joseph E. Thompson (foreground), Dr. David G. Elmes, and Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard.

 

Campus News Briefs

Most members of the Class of ’76
enter graduate school or find jobs

Forty per cent of the members of Washington and Lee’s
class of 1976 have entered graduate school, and almost 30 per
cent have gone into business and business-related professions,
according to the first comprehensive survey of its type taken
among new W&L alumni.

Only 16 per cent of the class is enrolled in law school, the
survey showed. Six per cent went on to MBA programs; 5.6 per
cent entered medical school; and 12.2 per cent are enrolled in
other graduate programs ranging from architecture to zo-
ology.

The survey was conducted by Michael A. Cappeto, W&L’s
director of placement and career development.Results are bas-
ed on responses from 236—84.3 per cent—of the members of
the class to whom survey questionnaires were sent. The study

 

Michael A. Cappeto talks with a student about careers and jobs.

included only students who had received B.A. or B.S. degrees
in 1976, not graduates of the School of Law.

The study showed an unemployment rate of 6.89 per cent
among 1976 W&L graduates as of late October, about the same
rate as the national average at the time.

Almost as many of the job-seekers needed the summer
and early fall to find employment as had jobs lined up on
graduation day, the survey indicated. Among those in the class
not planning on graduate school, the unemployment rate was
47.8 per cent at the time of graduation. But 12.2 per cent found
jobs in June; 9.8 per cent in July; 5.7 per cent in August; 9.8 per
cent in September; and 11.4 per cent in October.

“Pessimism during the summer” among graduates who do
not have jobs on graduation day, Cappeto observes in the re-
port of the survey, published in January, therefore seems “not
completely warranted.”

10

He says “underemployment,” however, remains “a serious
problem” among 1976 graduates. Almost 40 per cent of those
who are working said they are not using their college degrees
and are holding jobs which Cappeto says in many instances are
“the kinds of work students obtain as summer employment.”

 

LAW IS STILL TOPS WITH FRESHMEN

Almost a third of the members of this year’s freshman
class at Washington and Lee say they plan to become law-
yers—more than four times the national average among
male freshmen at four-year colleges, according to survey
results released by the American Council on Education.

Three fields—law, business and medicine—account
for two-thirds of the career choices indicated by the 373
W&L freshmen who participated in the survey. The
freshman class at Washington and Lee has 406 members
in all.

The W&L figure for future lawyers is 30 per cent. Na-
tionally, 7.2 per cent of male freshmen (and 4.1 per cent
of female freshmen) at four-year colleges indicated that
career preference in the annual nationwide survey. The
higher percentage at W&L is about the same as it has
been in recent years.

After law, business and medicine are the next most
popular career choices among W&L freshmen this year
—again following traditional patterns. At W&L, 22.8 per
cent said they intend to go into business (almost the same
as the national men’s figure this year, 20.3 per cent), and
13.9 per cent indicated they plan to become physicians
or dentists (the national men’s average is 8.7 per cent).

Other data in the survey show Washington and Lee
freshmen view themselves as substantially more “middle
of the road” or conservative than their counterparts na-
tionally. Of W&L freshmen, 81.1 per cent checked one
or the other of those designations. Nationally among
male freshmen this year, the figure was 68.7 per cent.
Only 16.5 per cent at W&L said they are political liberals;
nationally, the figure is 27.5 per cent.

As usual, the largest proportion—85.9 per cent at
W&L; only 47.8 per cent among male freshmen at four-
year colleges—said the institution’s academic reputation
was a factor of primary importance in choosing where
to go to college.

The second-most frequently noted reason among
W&L freshmen was the University’s special academic pro-
grams (17.3 per cent). One academic official at W&L, Dr.
Robert W. McAhren, associate dean of The College,
speculated that the principal “special academic pro-
grams” the W&L freshmen may have had in mind are
probably commerce and business, journalism and pre-
medical studies.

 

 

 

But only half of those “underemployed” graduates see no
future in their work. The others, Cappeto notes, seem to be
“finding career possibilities” in their current jobs.

Other data in the survey show 1976 W&L graduates are
earning salaries about equal to the national mean starting
salaries in business, the natural sciences, and social sciences—
but not in the humanities, where the W&L graduate’s average
is between $7,000 and $8,000, in contrast to a national average
of $9,300. There was no obvious reason for the discrepancy in
that one area.

The median starting salary range for the W&L graduates
was $9,000 to $10,000, the survey showed. Slightly more than 8
per cent of those responding said they started work at salaries
in excess of $13,000—but 19 per cent said their beginning
salaries were below $7,000.

The 29.8 per cent figure for 1976 W&L graduates in busi-
ness-related careers includes those employed in administration
and management (8.2 per cent), accounting (6 per cent), sales
(4.7 per cent), insurance (4.7 per cent), and real-estate and self-
employment (1.4 per cent combined).

One inference from the survey is that career objectives—or
career options, when it requires acceptance into graduate
school to fulfill them—change substantially during a student’s
college career.

Four years ago, when the same students were freshmen, a
survey of their career intentions showed only 15.7 per cent in-
tending to enter business, 33.2 per cent planning to become
lawyers, and 15.2 per cent planning to enter medical school.

ENROLLMENT SETS A RECORD

Washington and Lee enrolled 1,706 students this fall, 21
more than the previous record (1,685 students in 1972-73)—
with larger undergraduate freshman and first-year law classes
than ever before.

The University had 406 freshmen—more than it antici-
pated, because a higher proportion (51 per cent) accepted
offers of admission than has been the pattern recently (45 and
46 per cent in the past three years). More than two dozen
freshmen, as a result, had to be housed in the Robert E. Lee
Hotel in Lexington.

The law school had 114 first-year students, 30 more than the
average number until this year. With the opening in Septem-
ber of Lewis Hall, however, the law school is at last able to begin
to increase the overall size of its student body (the increase will
be gradual) to an eventual student population of 340 to 350,
the size W&L has identified as ideal for its kind of law pro-
gram.

The number of students who applied for admission as un-
dergraduate freshmen declined about 8 per cent, from 1,399
in 1975 to 1,298 last year, admissions officials have reported.
But not only did an unexpectedly large number of those whom
W&L actually accepted enroll; their average College Board
scores and class rankings stayed as high as they had been in
previous years (some of the statistics even showed slight in-
creases). The admissions staff says it seems likely, therefore,
that the dropoff in the number of applications came from
high-school students who were not strongly inclined to come
to W&L even if accepted, and from those who realized (or were
advised by their guidance counselors, perhaps) that they didn’t
have a very realistic chance of being accepted at W&L.

The law school received 1,178 applications, up 13 per cent
from the total the year before. It accepted about one-third of
them (390), substantially more than the previous year (287),
because of the planned increase in the size of the entering
class. Even so, however, the statistical data for the first-year law

students. showed increases. in median undergraduate. grade-
average (3.29, up from 3.27) and median LSAT scores (643
this year, up from 638). As usual, W&L led other undergradu-
ate schools in the number of students who enrolled in the Uni-
versity’s law school—10. (Fifty-two had applied, and 20 were
admitted, an acceptance rate substantially higher than the rate
of acceptances by W&L of students from other undergraduate
schools.) Virginia was second in the number of students it sent
to W&L’s law school (seven); third, interestingly, were Colgate
and the University of Michigan (four each). In all, 80 under-
graduate schools and 30 states are represented in the first-year
law class.

 

Artist’s rendering of Lee Chapel re-landscaping.

GARDEN CLUB SPONSORS
LEE CHAPEL LANDSCAPING

A brick terrace is being constructed at the front entrance
to Lee Chapel, and the area immediately around it is being
extensively re-landscaped—thanks to a gift to Washington and
Lee specifically for those projects from the Garden Club of
Virginia.

The improvements are part of a statewide program of the
garden club federation to “revisit” landscaping projects the
group had previously undertaken. The organization origi-
nally landscaped the chapel entrance and other nearby areas
on the campus in 1933. (The Garden Club is also currently
sponsoring a similar project around the Rotunda at the Uni-
versity of Virginia.)

In addition to the curved terrace, plans include planting
new boxwoods and other trees, shrubs, and ground cover.

Plans for the project were prepared by W&L’s landscape
architects, Griswold, Winters, Swain & Mullen of Pittsburgh.
The work was begun this winter by W. W. Coffey & Son, Lex-
ington contractors, and is scheduled for completion this

spring.
11

 

GLEE CLUB RECORDS W&L SONGS

A new record album featuring the Washington and Lee
University Glee Club performing songs about W&L has been
released.

In addition to a number of W&L standards, including “The
W&L Swing” and “Fight, Fight, Blue and White,” the album
contains the premiere performance of a new music-and-narra-
tive composition about W&L’s 227-year history, “This Good
Land for Our Heritage.”

The piece was written especially for the W&L Glee Club by
Parke S. Rouse Jr., a 1937 graduate of the University who is
now executive director of both the Jamestown Foundation and
the Virginia Independence Bicentennial Commission. Rouse’s
son, Parke Shepherd Rouse III, was a member of the glee club

 

Cover photo of Glee Club’s new album.

when the recording was made last year. He graduated from
W&L in June.

In addition to the glee club songs, the album also contains
two numbers—“The Swing” and “Fight, Fight,” W&L’s most
famous “fight” songs—played on the piano by Mrs. Frederick
M. P. Pearse. Mrs. Pearse’s renditions of the two songs have be-
come extremely popular in Lee Chapel, where she works as a
hostess and where the album was recorded.

Four of the songs were written by the late John A. Graham,
a W&L teacher from 1919 until his death in 1947—“Fight,
Fight”; “Hold ’Em, Gen’rals”; “Onward for Alma Mater” and
“The Only Girl.” Graham was director of the W&L theatre and
glee club for many years.

The 30-voice glee club is now directed by Dr. Gordon P.
Spice, assistant professor of music at W&L, who also super-
vised the recording. The technical engineer for the production
was Thomas W. Tinsley, W&L’s audio-visual electronics tech-
nician. The cover photo on the album, showing the glee club
in colonial costumes in front of the Liberty Hall ruins, was
taken by Sally Mann, W&L staff photographer.

The album is available to alumni for $5 postpaid through
Dr. Spice at W&L.

NEW ADMISSIONS, PLACEMENT AIDE

Curtis H. Hubbard, a 23-year Air Force veteran with ex-
tensive experience in education and student counseling, has
been appointed assistant dean of students and assistant di-
rector of placement.

Hubbard has special responsibility for working with minor-
ity students on an individual basis and as advisor to the Student
Association for Black Unity on campus. He is also active in ad-

I2

missions and student recruitment, and is a member of W&L’s
Admissions and Financial Aid Committees.

In his placement capacity, Hubbard works closely with
W&L’s director of placement and career development, Michael
A. Cappeto, to expand the services offered in those fields to
W&lL students and alumni.

Hubbard holds a B. S. degree from Hampton Institute and
received his master’s degree last year in guidance and counsel-
ing, also from Hampton. He served with the Air Force during
World War II and the Korean and Vietnam conflicts. When he
retired from the service in 1970, he had received the Air Medal
with seven oak-leaf clusters, the Presidential Outstanding Unit
Award, the Army and Air Force good conduct awards, and
Japanese and Vietnamese service medals.

NEW MAJOR IN ASIAN STUDIES

A major in East Asian studies has been established at Wash-
ington and Lee. The new interdepartmental major is an out-
growth of W&L’s Asian studies program, which has expanded
in the past five years to include 27 courses in seven depart-
ments. The faculty approved the new major at its December
meeting.

Students who take a major in East Asian studies will be re-
quired to complete two years of Chinese or Japanese language
and a number of courses in history, religion, politics, art and
comparative literature.

HIGH-SCHOOL JOURNALISM WORKSHOP

More than 90 high-school students and their advisors,
representing schools throughout central and western Virginia,
participated in a journalism workshop at W&L this winter.
Area professionals and W&L journalism professors presided
over a series of discussions of basic reporting, editing and lay-
out, and individual student newspapers were evaluated. The
workshop was sponsored jointly by the W&L campus and the
Blue Ridge (Roanoke) chapters of The Society of Professional
Journalists/Sigma Delta Chi.

 

i

Capt. Robert C Peniston (left) with T. Patrick C. Brennan, Lee Chapel
student curator.

DIRECTOR NAMED AT LEE CHAPEL

Capt. Robert C Peniston, a U.S. Navy officer for 30 years
until his retirement last summer, has been named to the new
post of director of Lee Chapel.

His duties include day-to-day administrative responsibil-
ity for the 110-year-old chapel in which Robert E. Lee and his
family are buried. The chapel is a National Historic Landmark.

Capt. Peniston was director of naval educational develop-
ment at Pensacola, Fla., at the time of his retirement. In that
capacity he had responsibility for undergraduate and _post-
graduate programs at the Naval Academy, in Navy R.O.T.C.

programs at 58 colleges and universities, and elsewhere in the
field.

He is a graduate of the Naval Academy and received his
master’s degree in personnel administration from Stanford
University. He holds a number of decorations, including the
Legion of Merit and the Meritorious Service Medal with two
gold stars.

DEBATE NEWS

Washington and Lee debaters won a first and a third place
in two of the three competitions in which they competed in the
fall.

William Rudy, a senior, was awarded a first-place trophy in
persuasive speaking at the annual Delta Sigma Rho-Tau
Kappa Alpha Forensics Tournament, held in Richmond.
Novice debaters Joe Baker and David Talley were awarded a
third-place certificate in competition at the regional Virginia
Forensic Association tournament at William and Mary. Talley
and Baker debated a 3-1 record.

TWO RECEIVE L. K. JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIPS

Two Washington and Lee students have been selected to
receive the Lewis Kerr Johnson Commerce Scholarship,
awarded annually by the School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics.

They are Jerry M. Baird of Fort Worth, Tex., and Steven
C. Yevich of Richmond. Baird, a junior, was selected for the
first time. Yevich, last year’s recipient, had his scholarship re-
newed.

The Lewis Kerr Johnson Commerce Scholarship was creat-
ed in 1974 in honor of Dr. Lewis K. Johnson, professor of ad-
ministration from 1933 and former head of the department.

 

Dr. Edward D. Craun, new assistant dean.

CRAUN NAMED NEW ASSISTANT DEAN

Dr. Edwin D. Craun, an assistant professor of English, has
been named to a three-year term as assistant dean of the Col-
lege.

Craun’s appointment will become effective Aug. 1. He will
succeed Dr. Robert W. McAhren, professor of American his-
tory, who has been in the post since 1971. McAhren will return
to full-time teaching.

Craun, 31, has taught English at W&L since 1971, the year
he received his Ph.D. in Renaissance literature from Princeton
University. He is also a summa cum laude graduate of
Wheaton College, and was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow. He
teaches courses in Renaissance and baroque literature, and
will continue to teach on a part-time basis.

W&L RECEIVES BEQUEST FROM EBEN JACKSON, ’33

Washington and Lee has received $40,000 as part of an un-
restricted bequest from the estate of a Massachusetts business-
man and civic leader, Eben Jackson, who died July 13, 1975, at
the age of 66.

When distribution of Jackson’s estate is completed, the
total Washington and Lee will have received is expected to be
approximately $60,000, according to Edwin A. Morris, chair-
man of W&lL’s estate planning council.

Jackson was a 1933 W&L graduate who resided in Danvers,
Mass. After graduation, he formed a company which manu-
factured wire racks, baskets and display stands. The company
was sold in 1946, and Jackson spent the rest of his career as
manager and trustee of his family’s business interests.

He was a member of the Danvers Board of Assessors for 25
years and a member of the town finance committee for 12. He
was also a member of the Lions Club and was vestryman,
treasurer, and, for more than two decades, senior warden of
Calvary Episcopal Church in that city.

In announcing the gift, Morris commented, “Eben Jack-
son’s generous bequest to Washington and Lee is a significant
help towards meeting the goals of our development campaign.
Because it is unrestricted it is especially valuable at this time,
allowing the Trustees to apply it to whatever need appears
most pressing to them.” The use to which the gift will be put
has not yet been designated.

LIBRARIANS AT CONFERENCE

Three Washington and Lee librarians were active partici-
pants in the 67th annual meeting of the Virginia Library
Association. University Librarian Maurice D. Leach Jr. was
president of the association for 1976-77 and presided at the
conference. Law Librarian Peyton Neal was a panelist on the
copyright discussion panel, and Delmus E. Williams, instructor
and cataloger, was chairman of a panel on the SOLINET com-
puterized cataloging system.

FACULTY NEWS

Dr. James Holt Starling, who has taught biology at Wash-
ington and Lee since 1942, has been named head of that de-
partment. Starling, who earned his bachelor’s and master’s de-
grees from the University of Alabama and his Ph.D. from
Duke, has also been coordinator of pre-medical studies at W&L
since 1963. He replaces Dr. Royal F. Ruth as department head.
Ruth returned to the University of Alberta in Canada after a
year at W&L.

 

Betty Ruth Kondayan has been named head of the refer-
ence and public-services staff in W&L’s McCormick Library. A
member of the library staff since 1971, Mrs. Kondayan holds
B.A. and M.A. degrees in English literature from the Univer-
sity of Illinois and a master’s degree in library science from
Wisconsin. Before coming to W&L, she taught at Berea College
in Kentucky and at the American College for Girls, a division of
Robert University in Istanbul, Turkey. Mrs. Kondayan suc-
ceeds Barbara Jeanne Brown, who has become assistant uni-
versity librarian at Princeton in charge of general reader serv-
ices.

Susan McPherson Coblentz has been appointed assistant
special collections librarian at McCormick, with responsibilities
which include continuing the indexing of W&L faculty minutes
and trustees’papers, in addition to general reference services
and teaching courses in bibliographic resources. Ms. Coblentz

Continued on Page 24

13

 

Louise Herreshoff in Paris at age 24 (1900)

LOUISE HERRESHOFF

An American Artist Discovered

The paintings of a woman artist whose remarkable career
began in the 1890s and stopped abruptly in 1926 had their na-
tional premiere this fall at the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Wash-
ington, D. C.

The artist is Louise Herreshoff, who later became the wife
of Euchlin D. Reeves, a 1927 law graduate of Washington and
Lee. She died 10 years ago at the age of 91 in Providence, R. I.,
where she had lived almost all her life.

Most of her known paintings are now owned by Wash-
ington and Lee—part of the Reeves’ bequest that included the
now-internationally famed Reeves Collection of Chinese Ex-
port Porcelain.

They had decided to give all their objects of art to Mr.
Reeves’ alma mater, but at first the porcelain collection was al-
most the sole center of interest. It was only by a lucky series of

14

coincidences, in fact, that Louise Herreshoff Reeves’ long-for-
gotten paintings ever came to light at all.

The porcelain was a magnificent gift indeed. (See the cover
article in the January 1973 issue of the alumni magazine.) In
the last decade, it has become an important study collection,
commanding the attention of scholars and collectors through-
out the world. In America, the Smithsonian Institution selected
200 pieces from the Reeves Collection for a two-year nation-
wide tour. Asa result of that tour as well as other exhibitions ar-
ranged directly by museums with the University, the collection
has been on view in 31 cities in 16 states and the District of
Columbia so far.

It had taken 200 barrels to contain the porcelain collection
when it was shipped from Providence to W&L in 1967. As the
van was ready to move out, somebody asked James W. White-

 

 

head, Washington and Lee treasurer and a close friend of
Euchlin and Louise Reeves who was there to direct the trans-
fer, whether the University also wanted a number of old, dust-
covered picture frames that were scattered about the Reeves’
two houses.

There was room on the van, and Whitehead knew that stu-
dents in W&L’s studio art classes could always use frames, and
so they were put aboard—gathered from attics and base-
ments and obscure nooks and corners, where they had been ob-
viously untouched for years.

A couple of months later, Whitehead was looking over the
still-unpacked treasures one day in Lexington, and by chance
he wiped a wet cloth across the glass covering one of the picture
frames, just out of idle curiosity about what might be under-
neath—hardly expecting to find anything significant.

But instead of a dime-store lithograph, he later recalled, he
saw “an explosion of color.”

He had discovered one of Louise Herreshoff’s brilliant
paintings. And soon it turned out there were more, dozens
more—nearly 100 in the end, and all part of the Reeves’ gift to
WEL.

Whitehead began to investigate both in the art world and
among Euchlin and Louise Reeves’ friends and family. It de-
veloped that she had been highly talented and obviously prolif-
ic, and when Whitehead showed the paintings to professional
critics they were startled to see a capsule reflection of the trends
in art in the twentieth century.

Louise Herreshoff had been born in Brooklyn during
America’s centennial year; she was a descendant of the broth-
ers for whom Brown University is named. Her father was a not-

 

Top left: Louise in Fontenay-aux-Roses at the end of the century.

Top right: In St. Mark’s Square, Venice, autumn 1898.

Above: At the Arc de Triomphe, 1895 (Louise Herreshoff is in the center,
smoking a cigarette or small cigar; the woman standing at left is believed
to be Mary C. Wheeler, her Providence teacher with whom she went to
France several times in the 1890s).

15

 

ed chemist, a co-founder of the American Chemical Society
and the man who perfected the process for the commercial
production of sulphuric acid. Her uncles included the famed
“boatbuilders of Bristol,” Nathaniel and John Brown Herre-
shoff, regarded today as the world’s greatest yacht designers,
whose ships successfully defended the America’s Cup six times
during Louise’s early years.

When Louise was just four years old, her mother died, and
it was the mother’s sister, Elizabeth Dyer—“Aunt Lizzie”—who
brought the little girl up and became the dominant influence in
her life.

Louise studied initially in Rhode Island, then spent five
years at the turn of the century in France, working under the
traditionalistic masters there. She loved Paris, and on one trip
back there she wrote to Aunt Lizzie: “We talk over Fontenay

16

 

 

Left: “Girl in Garden,” 1899, oil on canvas.
Top right: “White Sail,” ca. 1911, oil on canvas.

Below right: “In a Minor Key—Rockport,” ca. 1921, oil on canvas.

[Fontenay-aux-Roses, the suburb in which Louise lived in
France] and Paris, and you don’t know how much I long to see
it. We plan to sketch as soon as we reach Fontenay and Miss
Wheeler [Louise’s American teacher] has already engaged her
model. I long to see some poplar trees sticking up in a row.”

In those early years she painted mostly portraits, employing
the realistic, not-so-imaginative style that prevailed then. But
gradually, she came under the influence of the French Im-
pressionists and the Fauves, and in the first years of the new
century she began to experiment with the dramatic use of color
and broad-brushed, heavily applied oils that would come to
characterize her later work.

The gentle, ethereal quality of her paintings disappeared.
She replaced it with a boldness of technique and a shimmering
brightness in pigment. Her style was dramatic enough for any

Girl With Violets (Portrait of Miss T)
oil on canvas; 1897

 

;
3
:

ea
Ss

Se
 .
—
e ee
mone: ee
Se eee
ee
|
See
iS

Be
as

:
-
pine
.
:

 

Rooster
l on canvas

te

Wh

ca. 1925

9

Ol

ing page:

On fac

Weathered Boats—Rockport (top)

ca. 1924

l on canvas;

Ol

Rock (bottom)

Floating

ca. 1925

l on canvas;

Ol

 

Portrait of My Aunt Elizabeth (“Aunt Lizzie”)
oil on canvas; 1926

 

 

Above: Elizabeth Dyer, who was to become Louise Herreshoff's “Aunt
Lizzie,” in an 1860 photo at the age of 21.

Right: Euchlin Dalcho Reeves, whom Louise would marry in 1941, ina
photo taken in 1927, the year of his graduation from Washington and
Lee’s School of Law. Elizabeth Dyer and Euchlin Reeves were the two
most important influences in Louise Herreshoff’s life.

painter—and especially for a woman artist in that era.

Louise Herreshoff became a radical.

After she returned to the United States in 1903, she began
her most productive period as a painter. She traveled exten-
sively throughout New England, painting the shore and the
countryside, returning to portraiture only at the very end of
her artistic career for a series of five portraits of her beloved
Aunt Lizzie.

It was soon thereafter that Aunt Lizzie, her “surrogate
mother,” died—and Louise abruptly put all her paintings out
of sight. No one knows why. Except for a few casual sketches,
she never painted again.

After that sudden and mysterious abandonment, Louise
began to devote almost all her time and resources to collecting
fine antique porcelain, which had intrigued her ever since
childhood. Soon she met Euchlin Reeves, who shared that in-

 

terest, and in 1941 they were married. It was described as “a
fragile union”—perhaps understandably; she was 66, and he
was 38. But the next quarter-century proved its soundness.

They continued to collect porcelain together until they had
sO many pieces that their house on Benevolent Street in Provi-
dence was literally filled. It was nearly impossible even to walk
from room to room. So Louise and Euchlin Reeves simply
bought the house next door, moved into it, and went right on
collecting—keeping the old house as their own private little
museum. By the time of their deaths (which occurred in close
succession in 1967), they had assembled one of the finest
private porcelain collections in the country—more than 5,000
pieces in all.

Her career as an artist had covered only 30 years—but what
a 30 years. The well-known art scholar and dealer Norman
Hirschl, writing in the catalogue published on the occasion of

23

 

Below: “Parrot,” ca. 1918, oil on canvas.
Right: “Rocks,” ca. 1925, watercolor on paper.
Below right: “Japanese Plate No. 1,” ca. 191), oul on canvas.

 

the Corcoran premiere, said her early paintings “have the in-
trospective solidity of Sargent and Chase.” Her later works,
Hirschl observes, “might well have been exhibited next to the
best of the Expressionists in the Armory Show of 1913.” Louise
Herreshoff is, Hirsch] said, “a new name” to add to the list of
contributors to “America’s pre-eminence in the field of twen-
tieth-century art.”

Or take the view of Roy Slade, director of the Corcoran:
“Her early work is academic and competent, showing genuine
ability and accomplishment. Gradually, her paintings become
more adventuresome. She was not afraid to experiment. Even
today, the paintings are strong and vital, refreshing and re-
warding in the clarity of expressive imagery—bringing to the
viewer the inner energy inherent in a dedicated and devoted
painter.”

And the critics unanimously agreed.

29

 

“She is an exciting painter, and the range of her style is as-
tonishing,” wrote Norman Nadel, cultural affairs editor for the
Scripps-Howard newspaper chain.

“Very few American artists of the years 1910 to 1927 used
color more venturesomely than Louise Herreshoff,” said Ben-
jamin Forgey in a Washington Star review. “The popular
American colorists of the period, the ones who sold lots of
paintings and won the prestigious prizes, never went beyond a
polite, domesticated impressionism. Herreshoff did.”

“From wistful portraits to gnarled landscapes, Herreshoff’s
paintings were worth the wait,” said Phyllis Richman of the
Washington Post's Sunday magazine, “Potomac.” In a separate
review, Jo Ann Lewis of the Post wrote: “Anyone who questions
her painterly skills need only look at her exquisite sandy
beaches from 1910, or her final works, a series of portraits of
her beloved Aunt Lizzie. In a real sense, her art mirrors not

 

 

Clockwise from above: Some 300 guests attended a black-tie preview and
reception at the Corcoran. Trustee Lewis F. Powell Jr. chatted with visitors
at the entrance to the gallery where 88 Herreshoff paintings were ex-
hibited. Sixty dozen red roses decorated the buffet tables at the reception
(WSL was a “gracious host” and the evening had the “special flair” it
deserved, the Washington Post said). Guests browsed leisurely through

the gallery all evening long. Afterwards, James W. Whitehead (WSL
treasurer and “discoverer” of Louise Herreshoff) and Mrs. Whitehead
toasted the evening’s success.

only her own struggle, but that of all early twentieth-century
American modernists.”

A “master of expressionist art,” King Features called her.
“A talent that is sensitive and spirited far beyond the level of
most American artists of her era,” F. D. Cossitt, art critic for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch and the Norfolk Virginian-Pilot,
wrote.

“For art lovers, especially those who treasure brilliant colors
and impressionist styles, the unearthing of the paintings is
great good fortune,” wrote Roy Cohen, United Press Inter-
national art writer. “To have lost these works would have been
tragic. Her incredible use of colors is breathtaking. Her range
is wondrous—from her portraits of Aunt Lizzie to New Eng-
land seascapes to Van Gogh-like still lifes. The porcelain was
their [Euchlin and Louise Reeves’] legacy to Washington and
Lee, but her paintings are a legacy to the world.”

 

  

 

 

CATALOGUE AVAILABLE

The 80-page catalogue published by Washington and
Lee, Louise Herreshoff: An American Artist Discovered, con-
tains 42 full-page color reproductions of Louise Herre-
shoff’s paintings, an introduction by W&L President Ro-
bert E. R. Huntley, critical essays by Norman Hirschl of
Hirschl & Adler Galleries, New York, and Roy Slade, di-
rector of the Corcoran Gallery of Art, and a biographical
essay by James W. Whitehead, W&L treasurer and dis-
coverer of the Herreshoff paintings. Alumni and friends
may order copies of the catalogue for $5 postpaid (the
commercial price is $7.50) by writing to the W&L News
Office.

 

Zo

 

earned her A.B. degree with high honors from Queens College
and the master’s degree in library science from the University
of North Carolina.

The World War I letters of the late George Junkin Irwin, a
long-time professor of French at W&L, have been edited and
published by Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor of American
history. The volume, fourth in a series of Rockbridge County-
related histories published in recent years by Turner, is pub-
lished by McClure Press ($6.50). Irwin was a member of the
W&L volunteer ambulance unit that served in France in 1917-
19, and his letters provided a vivid picture of the soldier’s life
both in training and on the battlefields of Europe.

Robert E. R. Huntley, president of Washington and Lee,
was elected this winter to the 12-member board of directors of
Philip Morris Inc., one of the world’s largest cigarette manu-
facturing companies (whose holdings also include a number of
diversified subsidiaries).

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of economics, is the
editor of Competition and Regulation: Some Economic Concepts, an
anthology of essays originally presented in the form of papers
at a four-day conference last summer co-sponsored by W&L
and the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Cos. Phillips
organized and directed that symposium, and will do so again
this summer (for the fifth time in five -years). In addition,
Phillips has just completed four years of service on the blue-
ribbon national commission to evaluate national policy toward
gambling. That group’s study will be released by the federal
government later this winter.

O. W. Riegel, professor of journalism at W&L for 43 years
until his retirement in 1973, has not let up the pace of his pro-
fessional activity. He has recently written an essay, “The Polli-
tics of Satellite Communication,” which appeared as the lead
article in The Journal of The Centre For Advanced Television
Studies (published in London); he is the author of a three-
part series on the state of cinematic arts in Hungary that has
been described as the best analysis on the subject yet written—
by someone who ought to know, the editor of New Hungarian
Quarterly, in which the series is now being published. Riegel is
also a member of an international committee organized to
mark the 70th birthday this year of the famed Belgian artist
Jean Milo.

Four works by Washington and Lee’s sculptor-in-residence,
Isabel Mcllvain, were displayed in New York this autumn—
three in a five-person group exhibit at Gallery 4 x 10, and one
in Lever House on Park Avenue (part of an exhibition ar-
ranged by The Sculptors’ Guild, of which Miss MclIlvain is a
member).

A professor of law at W&L, Lawrence D. Gaughan, was a
panelist this fall in a symposium entitled “Straight Talk About
Families,” sponsored by the Roanoke Valley Mental Health As-
sociation. Gaughan led a discussion of parental strife and how
it affects children, and also participated in a session on ways
parents can help their children grow up to be “responsible,
well-adjusted adults.”

Two Washington and Lee art historians delivered papers
this fall to the Southeastern College Art Conference—Dr.
Gerard M. Doyon on “The Two Images of Benjamin Frank-
lin: American and French,” and Dr. Pamela Simpson on

24

“Beauty, Utility and Economy: The Uses of Architectural
Books at Mid-Century.”

A professor of classical languages and literature, Dr. Her-
man W. Taylor, has been elected chairman of the board of
publishers of Shenandoah, W&\L’s prize-winning quarterly
literary review. Taylor succeeds Miss Barbara Jeanne Brown,
now a member of Princeton University’s library administra-
tion.

_ Dr. John F. DeVogt, professor and head of the Department
of Administration, received the Outstanding Service Award of
the Southern Management Association at its annual meeting in
Atlanta in November. DeVogt was president of the organiza-
tion in 1974-75. The service award was one of only two pre-
sented at the convention this year.

W&L—OXFORD FACULTY EXCHANGE ESTABLISHED

Oxford University’s oldest component, University College,
and Washington and Lee have announced a faculty-exchange
program, to be inaugurated next fall.

Under the program, professors from the prestigious
British university will spend a term or a full academic year
teaching classes at W&L. In turn, Washington and Lee pro-
fessors will have the opportunity to spend sabbaticals at Ox-
ford, principally to conduct research.

 

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr.

NATIONAL PHI BETA KAPPA FEDERATION
ELECTS DR. SHANNON VICE PRESIDENT

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr., a 1939 W&L graduate and a
member of the Board of Trustees since 1974, was elected this
winter to a three-year term as vice president of the United
Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa.

Dr. Shannon is the former president (1959-74) of the Uni-
versity of Virginia and is now Commonwealth professor of
English there. His election to national Phi Beta Kappa office
came in Williamsburg—where it was founded 200 years ago—
during the society’s 1976 triennial assembly. Delegates from
214 chapters were represented.

Shannon was elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa
while a student at W&L, where his father taught English for
many years. Edgar Shannon Jr. was a Rhodes Scholar, and has
held Fulbright and Guggenheim fellowships as well. He joined
the U.Va. faculty in 1956, three years before being named
president, after six years teaching English at Harvard Univer-
sity. He has been a member of the national senate of Phi Beta
Kappa since 1967 and is currently president-elect of the chap-
ter at Virginia.

 

 

Dr. Pamela Simpson, organizer of “American Sculpture in Lexington”
exhibition, and Dr. Gerard M. Doyon, art professor, take a close look
at equestrian statue of Lee.

 

The entries were discussed during a slide-lecture preceding the opening of
the exhibition. On the screen is Proctor’s equestrian statue of Lee.

THE ARTS AT W&L

An exhibition of important American sculptures from
public collections in Lexington took place at W&L this winter.
The exhibition was the result of a year-long research and study
projects by nine students working under Dr. Pamela Simpson,
assistant professor of art history.

In all, 19 sculptures—ranging from a miniature cameo of
George Washington to a larger-than-life statue of Stonewall
Jackson—were included in the exhibition. (The sculptures too
large for W&L’s duPont Gallery were represented by detailed
photographs and, in several instances, by smaller preliminary
models the sculptors had made.)

Most of the pieces are owned by Washington and Lee and
Virginia Military Institute. Dr. Simpson remarked that the
quality of public sculpture in Lexington is exceptional largely
because of the desire on the part of admirers of Washington,
Lee and Jackson to memorialize their heroes in the town where
each had a strong influence on education.

W&L sculptures represented in the exhibition were Old
George, carved in 1884 by Capt. Mathew S. Kahle, a local
cabinet-maker; Edward Valentine’s famous Recumbent Statue
of Lee asleep on the battlefield, completed in 1875 (though not
installed in the chapel until 1883); the tiny Washington cameo,
made in 1862 by John Crookshank King; two busts of Wash-
ington by Jean Antoine Houdon, one of the so-called Mount
Vernon type and one of the Louvre type, both made in 1785; a
medallion cast in 1889 by Augustus Saint-Gaudens and his ap-
prentice, Philip Martiny, to commemorate the centennial of
Washington’s inauguration as President; a life mask of Lee
made in 1869 by Clark Mills; a bas-relief portrait in marble of

Lee, carved in 1874 by William Henry Rinehart; a bust of Lee
by Andrew F. Volck (1866) and another by Sir Moses Ezekiel
(1886), and a bronze model of the statue by A. Phimister Proc-
tor designed for Lee Park in Dallas (1933-36).

Washington and Lee has published a 48-page catalogue
containing brief essays and full-page photographs of each
sculpture in the exhibition, with a critical introductory article
by Dr. Simpson. Alumni may obtain copies of the catalogue for
$1 postpaid by writing to the Department of Art.

Other duPont Gallery exhibitions this fall and winter have
included a retrospective show of five years of oils, watercolors
and drawings by David Loren Bass, visiting artist-in-residence
during the autumn term; works by the noted sculptor Peter
Agostini, and 22 scale models derived from Leonardo da-
Vinci’s most important and inventive drawings.

A new painting by Ray Prohaska, artist-in-residence at
W&L from 1963 to 1969, has been added to the University’s
permanent collection as a gift from his friends and former stu-
dents. Prohaska, a former president of the American Society of
Illustrators, now lives in Bridgehampton, N. Y.

The University Theatre (as the Troubadours are now call-
ed) presented Anton Chekhov’s Uncle Vanya and Christopher
Marlowe’s Doctor Faustus this fall, and are now in rehearsal tor
Who’s Afraid of Virginia Woolf? by Edward Ablee and Three
Penny Opera by Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill. Vanya was one of
the drama group’s most innovative productions to date; it was
staged in the boiler room (converted nicely into a small theatre,
to be sure) of Old Main Street, formerly the Rockbridge Laun-
dry building (and Sheridan’s Livery stable before that), now a
quaint indoor shopping mall with more than a dozen small

shops.

 

U.S. Sen. Joseph R. Biden Jr., “Contact” speaker.

CAMPUS VISITORS THIS FALL AND WINTER

—U.S. Sen.Joseph R. Biden Jr. (D-Del.), “Priorities of the
New Administration,” sponsored by “Contact,” W&L’s annual
student-organized symposium;

—Charles B. Seib, ombudsman of the Washington Post,
“Watching the Watchdogs: Ethics and the Power of the Press”;

—John Seigenthaler, publisher of the Nashville Tennessean,
“Publish and Be Jailed: The Contempt Power and the First
Amendment”;

—Franklyn S. Haiman, professor of communication
studies and urban affairs at Northwestern University, “Access
to the Media: Free-Speech Rights in Conflict”;

—Sandy Gall, reporter and newscaster for Britain's Inde-
pendent Television Network, on the role of the foreign corres-
pondent;

—Roger Hillsman, assistant Secretary of State for Far East-

Pty

om ©

 

ern affairs during the Kennedy and Johnson administrations
and now professor of government at Columbia University,
“The Crouching Future”;

—Rene C. McPherson, self-described “maverick business-
man” who is board chairman and chief executive officer of the
Dana Corp., for a week of meetings with classes and individu-
ally with W&L students as Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow;

—The Black Voices of the University of Virginia for a con-
cert of gospel and sacred music;

—Lord Redcliffe-Maud, recently retired after 13 years as
master (chancellor) of University College (Oxford), England,
“Government and the Arts”;

—James Merrill, National Book Award-winning poet (for
Nights and Days, 1967), for a reading from his works, sponsored
by the Glasgow Endowment;

—Lord James Crichton-Stuart, “Britain in 1976,” spon-
sored by the School of Commerce, Economics and Politics;

—A putative former Red Guard named “Wan Fat-lai” (in
truth, Dr. John Israel, professor of Chinese-history at Virginia,
though that wasn’t disclosed. in advance), “Recollections of the
Cultural Revolution,” sponsored by W&L’s East Asian Studies
Program; oe ae PS Cb ean a

—Juan Lopez-Morillas, professor of Hispanic studies and
comparative literature at Brown University, “Utopia and Anti-
Utopia as Themes in Narrative Fiction”;

—Paul E. Potter, professor of geology at the University of
Cincinnati, “Shales and Black Shales”and “New Developments
in Paleocurrents”;

—Jeffrey St. John, conservative columnist and CBS radio

commentator, “Jimmy Carter’s Betrayal of the South,” sponsor-

ed by the W&L College Republican Club;
—The Annapolis Brass Quintet, pianist Robert Silverman,
Chinese musicologist Tsai-ping Liang, harpsichordist Frances

Cole, and the Stradivari Quartet, all in concerts sponsored by
the W&L Concert Guild.

 

Division IIT All-American Tony Perry.

PERRY IS ALL-AMERICAN

Senior co-captain Tony Perry of Waynesboro, Va., was
named to the American Football Coaches Association first-
team NCAA Division III All-American football team. The
award was co-sponsored by the Kodak Co.

Perry, a split end/tight end, had a brilliant four-year career
with the Generals. In 39 games, he caught 154 passes for 2,122
yards and 16 touchdowns. He is W&L’s all-time leading pass
receiver. He finished the 1976 season with 31 catches for 565
yards and three touchdowns. He led the Generals to a 5-5 sea-
son, their first .500 mark in nine years. He was earlier named
the Old Dominion Athletic Conference’s Player of the Year
and the ODAC’s first-team all-conference tight end.

26

 

Tom Wolfe will return to campus.

Copyrighted by Jill Krementz

WOLFE, WITH HOT NEW BOOK,
TO RETURN FOR ‘CONTACT’ SPEECH

Mauve Gloves & Madmen, Clutter & Vine by Tom Wolfe, ’51,
was called in a glowing Time magazine review “Wolfe’s finest
book and the keenest look at the psychedelic ’60s yet written.
...No one has better aim than Wolfe.” The book has, in fact,
received such enthusiastic reviews everywhere. “We need
Wolfe. He should be declared a national asset,” raved the
Washington Post. “Wolfe knows something about everything.”
(Both Time and the Post, incidentally, compared Wolfe with the
late H. L. Mencken.)

The book, just published by Farrar, Straus & Giroux, is a
satire on pop culture—on what’s “fashionable,” what’s oh-so-
chichi. (The tithe comes from the name of a caterer, MG&M,
and the name of a florist, C&V.) It’s his seventh book (some of
the others are his controversial The Painted Word, 1975; Radical
Chic and Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers, 1970; and The Kandy-
Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby, 1965).

Wolfe got his start in journalism and creative writing at
Washington and Lee, as a sports reporter for the Ring-tum Phi
and a founder of Shenandoah. After graduation he earned a
Ph.D. in American studies from Yale and worked as a reporter
for several newspapers. Since 1968 he has been a contributing
editor to New York magazine. He received an honorary degree
from W&L in 1974, and will be back on campus this spring as a
speaker in the student body’s “Contact” series.

OUT SEEING THRO Se aS EPRR ODE STEREO BEM UUHETSS MO PURO VENET CTHAME VEEN, OLICH ROUTE NUTEU PRG ning Chinytenin NCUA UGS A SUN Bs ec Lit ai] fs SHAN Gas Ee OU WRU raat Sige ER sce Ea} aT INET Re INE REEDS ci rag AGW Capper P ts SPORE AURORA VC Ue QE AT NPDS GENK IVS USOT RICUIC UNG RR PRCT eH ioe ET Open APC TEN OM IC PTAC SOA ONCE CURR cel ec ARON SMMC CTRL PON DAN BOERS ENN ARR mn GIT DA Resear ea

 

Chapter news

HOUSTON. University Treasurer
James W. Whitehead and Mrs. White-
head were special guests at a buffet
dinner on Nov. 3 at the Forest Club. A
large group of alumni and parents of
current students heard Whitehead tell
about the University’s magnificent Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain
and its impact on Washington and Lee.
He and Mrs. Whitehead exhibited several
pieces from the collection during the talk.
Arrangements for the meeting were
made by W. B. (Buck) Ogilvie, outgoing
chapter president. He received special
praise for his leadership of the chapter.
Don McFall, ’64, reported for the nomi-
nating committee, and the following offi-
cers were elected: Robert I. Peeples, ’57,
president; Daniel F. Boyles, 63, vice
president; Richard E. Gray III, 73, treas-
urer; Allen B. Craig III, ’68, secretary.
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn was
present and thanked the chapter for its
outstanding support of the University.

SAN ANTONIO. Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn was the guest and speaker at a
cocktail-reception on Nov. 4 at the San
Antonio Country Club. Washburn gave a
thumbnail report on the University and
showed color slides of the campus. His
presentation was well received by a large
group of alumni and the parents of cur-
rent students. Of particular interest to the
group were slides of Lewis Hall, the new
law school building, and the beginning of
construction work on the new under-
graduate library. Ralph Lehr, ’41, chapter
president, made the arrangements.

NEW YORK. The chapter held a din-
ner-dance on Nov. 19 at the Princeton
Club in Manhattan in honor of President
and Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley. Jasha
Drabek, ’53, chapter president, was toast-
master and introduced President Hunt-
ley, who spoke briefly on the status of the
University. Many alumni, parents, and
friends were present. Also present from
Lexington were Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn and Assistant Alumni Secre-
tary Marty Bass and their wives.

 

NEW YORK—At head table are University Trustee Calvert Thomas, ’38; Mrs. Jasha Drabek; President

Huntley; Mrs. Huntley; Chapter President J asha Drabek, ’53; Mrs. Calvert Thomas; and

L. Roper Shamhart, ’47.

LYNCHBURG. The chapter’s  tradi-
tional holiday dance was held on Dec. 3
at the Elk’s Club. Music was by the Vel-
vetones. George H. Fralin, ’57, chapter
president, and E. Starke Sydnor, ’66, sec-
retary-treasurer, made the principal ar-

rangements for the event.

WASHINGTON, D.C. Alumni gathered
for a grand celebration at P.W.’s Saloon
after Washington and Lee’s football vic-
tory over Georgetown University on Nov.
20. Then on Dec. 30 they came together
again for the chapter’s traditional holiday
luncheon at the University Club. A num-
ber of current and prospective students
joined the group. The speaker was Tom
Jones, the University’s trainer and physi-
cal therapist. He reported on the fall
athletic program and urged continuing
alumni support in the future, promising
an exciting lacrosse season. Carter Mc-
Neese, associate director of development,
was also present and reported on the Uni-
versity’s annual giving program. The
guests were accompanied by Alumni Sec-
retary Bill Washburn. During a business

session, the following officers were elect-
ed: Jay Meriwether, ’70, president; Grady
Frank, ’74L, vice president; Jeff Twardy,
’68, secretary; and Don Sigmund, ’58,
treasurer.

PIEDMONT. Alumni met for cocktails
on Nov. 20 at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Walter Hannah, ’50, in Greensboro, N. C.
Special guests were Dr. Edward C. At-
wood, Jr., dean of the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics, and his
wife. James S. (Chip) Mahan, ’73, of Win-
ston-Salem, chapter president, helped
make the arrangements and presided at
the meeting.

RICHMOND. The chapter met twice
before Christmas. The first meeting was a
social gathering on Nov. 18 in the Execu-
tive Dining Room at the Top in the First
& Merchants Bank Building. Special
guests were Thomas B. Branch III, ’58, of
Atlanta, president of the Alumni Board
of Directors, and E. W. (Sandy) Stradt-
man, ’77, vice president of the W&L stu-
dent body and a pre-med major. Branch

27

 

Chapter News

 

reported on the alumni program and the
responsibility of alumni to support the
University. Stradtman discussed student
life on campus today and assured alumni
that traditions and values are being main-
tained. Another highlight of this meeting
was the presentation of the chapter’s first
John Newton Thomas Distinguished
Alumnus Award. The 1976 recipient was
William B. Jacobs, ’29, who over the years
has shown unusual dedication to Wash-
ington and Lee and the Richmond chap-
ter. The award is named in honor of John
Newton Thomas, ’24, rector emeritus of
the University’s Board of Trustees. The
chapter’s annual business meeting was
held on Dec. 6 at the Bull and Bear Club
in the Fidelity Building. After the com-
mittee reports, the following officers were
elected: Jaquelin H. DeJarnette, °65,
president; Robert M. Turnbull, ’72, first
vice president; Dr. John Newton Thomas,
24, second vice president; John A. Con-
rad, 73, secretary; and Robert H. Yevich,

 

70) RICHMOND—William B. Jacobs, 29, is presented the John Newton Thomas Distinguished Alumnus
, treasurer. Award. With him are Dr. Thomas (left) and Dan Balfour, 63, 631.

 

Spring

Class Reunions

ANNIVERSARY CLASS REUNIONS
of the
ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES
1927 1937 1952 1962 1967
and the
OLD GUARD
(All classes prior to 1926)
will be held on campus
May 6 and 7
Mark Your Calendar Now! Plan to Attend!

SPECIAL NOTICE: If for any reason you are not carried as
a member of one of these classes but feel closely related to

 

one and wish to return for reunion, please advise the Alum-

 

ni Office immediately.

28

Class notes

 

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $68.00 f.o.b.
Lexington, Virginia

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your
check. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

1920

J. GLen Evins is in his 5lst year of serv-
ice with the Lykes Bros. Insurance Agency
which he founded in Tampa, Fla. Evins, a
senior national swimming competitor, swims
a mile every day of the year.

1921]

Dr. SAMUEL L. RAINEs, Methodist Hospital
staff physician and associate in the Mem-
phis Urology Group, has been awarded the
Ramon Guiteras Medal by the American
Urological Association. The award, named
for one of the founders of AUA, is given in
recognition of distinguished contributions to
the arts and science of urology. The pres-
entation was made in May 1976 at the an-
nual meeting of the association in Las Vegas.
A member of the 1975-76 executive commit-
tee, Raines is chairman of the review and
long-range planning committee. He _ has
contributed numerous papers to the AUA
and has served on a number of committees
to further urology in the United States.
Raines is a former president of the south-
eastern branch of the AUA. From 1954 to
1966, he was chairman and head of the De-
partment of Urology at the University of
Tennessee. He is a past president of the
Memphis and Shelby County Medical So-
ciety and has twice served as chief of staff
of Methodist Hospital.

1924

EDMUND MCCULLOUGH CAMERON was induct-
ed into the National Football Hall of Fame
at the Nineteenth Annual Awards Dinner
Dec. 7, 1976, at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel
in New York. He is the second Washington
and Lee man in the Hall of Fame. The other
is “Cy” Young, 717. William D. McHenry,
54, athletic director, attended the _ cere-
monies. Cameron played fullback and _ line-
backer for W&L in the 1920’s. He won eight
letters in football and basketball. Following
graduation and a year of teaching and a year
of prep school coaching, Cameron became
the backfield coach at Duke University,
serving under coaches De Hart and Wallace
Wade. Later he became head football coach,
winning 25 of 36 games with one tie. In
1942, he became athletic director of Duke
University. He is now retired and lives in

Durham, N. C.
1925

Dr. HERBERT POLLACK has been named to the
board of the Medical college of Pennsyl-
vania. MCP’s National Board is comprised
of 160 persons who serve as a national ad-

 

visory and support group for the college.
Pollack, a professor emeritus in clinical
medicine at George Washington University,
is one of four male board members of
MCP, which was formerly known as The
Womans Medical College of Pennsylvania.
He also serves as special radiation con-
sultant to the U. S. State Department, an
appointment which stems from his continu-
ed activity over the years on the Electro-
magnetic Radiation Management Advisory
Council. For recreation Pollack rides to the
hounds with the Piedmont Pack near his
home in Upperville, Va.

bO29

WILLIAM F, CHANDLER is the retired presi-
dent of Porter Coatings Co., in Louisville,
Ky. He is active with the Episcopal Diocese
of Kentucky.

The combination store and post office owned
by ASA JANNEY in Lincoln, Va., was _ pic-
tured in a Washington Post feature article
on Oct. 17, 1976. The current residents of
Loudoun County have petitioned to desig-
nate the central county area as Goose Creek
Historical Preservation District. The region
is unique for the number of homes preserv-
ed in their original condition. Janney is a
retired federal postmaster.

1930

WILLIAM 'T. ALsop, associated for 35 years
with the wholesale food firm Pillans &
Smith, of Ocala, Fla., is now chairman of
the board of that firm.

L. PALMER Brown, president of L. P. Brown
Co., Inc., has been named 1976 Master of
Free Enterprise by Junior Achievement of
Memphis, Inc. This award is made annu-
ally to a Shelby County citizen who, in the
opinion of the selection committee, has
achieved success in his chosen endeavor that
makes him a vivid example, particularly to
the youth of the community. Brown was
honored at a banquet on November 22. He
is past president of the Rotary Club, Future
Memphis Inc., Downtown Association, Meth-
odist Hospital Board of Trustees, Family
Service of Memphis, Memphis Cotton Carni-
val Association and the National Multiple
Sclerosis Society. He was named “Distin-
guished Alumnus” by the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association in 1976. He is cur-
rently a trustee of Southwestern at Memphis,
Porter-Leath Children’s Center, Sunshine
Home for Aged Men and the Boys Club
of Memphis Foundation.

29

Class Notes

CHARLES W. COCKE is president of the Geor-
gia federation of chapters, National Associa-
tion of Retired Employees, and has just re-
turned from the National Convention in Salt
Lake City. His term as president will expire
in May, 1977. Cocke also serves as plantation
tour guide for the Chamber of Commerce
in Thomasville, Ga.

MONTE ROSENBERG is senior trial counsel for
the City of Miami Law Department.

193]

STANLEY D. WAXBERG has a full schedule as
senior partner in the law firm of Kaye,
Scholer, Fierman, Hays & Hander on Park
Avenue in New York City.

1932

Davip B. KirsBy is a retired member of the
Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
where he served as a legal assistant. He lives
in Harrisburg.

In the November 1976 elections, Jack G.
Marks was re-elected for a fourth term of
four years as Judge of the Superior Court of
Pima County, Ariz., at ‘Tucson.

KENNETH R, ROUTON maintains a home in
Huntington, N. Y., but travels a good bit of
the year in his motor home. He continues
to hunt, fish and play golf.

1934

RICHARD W. GRAFTON, C.L.U., a representa-
tive of New York Life Insurance Co., lives
in Ft. Myers, Fla. He has completed 40
years of service in the insurance industry.
His awards include the Chartered Life Un-
derwriters designation and the National
Quality Award which he has received con-
tinuously for 26 years.

FoOsTER M. PALMER continues as librarian of
the Francis A. Countway Library of Medi-
cine in Watertown, Mass.

GEORGE L. REYNOLDs retired from the Public
Service Electric & Gas Co., of New Jersey
in March 1975. He spends his winters in
Pompano Beach, Fla. He plays tournament
tennis and is currently playing the National
Senior Circuit (60 years and over).

1935

WILLIAM P. Diccs retired after 28 years with
the F.B.I. and now lives in Sun City, Ariz.

NORMAN S. FITZHUGH JR. lives in Charleston,
W. Va., where he continues to study the

30

1976 Internal Revenue Code revisions and
to do tax work.

GEORGE E. SHORT retired in 1971 after 33
years with E. I. duPont. He and his wife live
in Pompton Lakes, N. J., where Short en-
joys gardening and golf.

1936

OrAY M. Davis Jr. retired from the U. S.
Corps of Engineers in 1972. In August 1976
he moved to Stephens City, Va., where he
is busily engaged in writing books and visit-

ing friends.
1937

CHARLES S. McNULTy Jr. retired as real
estate assessor of Roanoke, Va., in January.
He will continue as a fee appraiser and real
estate tax consultant.

1938

SAMUEL P. MCCHEsNEY, formerly of Cleve-
land, Ohio, has been living for the past
several years in Plymouth, Montserrat, West
Indies. He is president of the Montserrat
National ‘Trust; the Montserrat Building
Society, a savings and loan association; a
director of Caribbean Cinema; vice chair-
man of Montserrat Foundation; and a past
president of the Rotary Club.

1940

CHARLES C, Cure Jr. is a pilot for Braniff
Airlines. He currently flies between Dallas

and Honolulu.
1942

Dr. JAMES H. Davipson has practiced inter-
nal medicine in Durham, N. C., for 27 years.
He recently toured Mexico.

 

AWARD WINNERS ALL
Four W&L alumni won awards in the
Virginia Press Association’s 1976 writ-
ing competition. Edward P. Berlin Jr.,
49, of the Waynesboro News-Vir-
ginian, won a first-place award in the
editorial writing category. Among the
second-place winners were Charles R.
McDowell, ’48, for his column; Robert
G. Holland, 63, for editorial writing;
and William P. McKelway Jr., ’70, for
his feature story on Floridians who
said they were told by God to move
north. McDowell, Holland, and Mc-
Kelway all write for the Richmond
Times-Dispatch.

 

 

 

1944

EDWARD DEvOL Jr., formerly managing edi-
tor of the press division in the U. S. Infor-
mation Agency, is now a free-lance writer.

1948

Dr. JOHN P. STEWART was elected president
of the Kentucky Medical Association House
of Delegates for the 1976-77 year. Stewart,
a radiologist at King’s Daughters Memorial
Hospital in Frankfort is the immediate past
chairman of the board of trustees, having
served as a trustee from the seventh district
since 1973. A past president of the Fayette
County Medical Society, Stewart is a for-
mer chairman of the Committee on State
Legislative Activities.

M. WILLIAMSON Watts (See Watts, 1975.)

1949

After 18 years at Far Hills Country Day
School, RiIcHARD S. COOLEY is now acting
chairman of the mathematics department at
Buckley School on East 73rd Street in New
York City. He and his wife Nancy have three

children.
1950

GERARD A. BURCHELL JR. has received the
M.S. degree in education from the Univer-
sity of Maine.

Dr. GEORGE WILLIAM WHITEHURST of Vir-
ginia Beach, Va., has been elected to his
fifth term as U. S. Congressman.

195]

In October GEORGE F. ARATA Jr. resigned as
director, president and chief administra-
tive officer of the Southeast Bank of Dade-
land in Miami, and as chief executive offi-
cer of the Southeast Bank in Sebastian, Fla.

JupcE RoBeErT L. POWELL took the oath as
circuit judge in the 29th Judicial Circuit on
Feb. 5, 1976. He lives in Pearisburg, Va.

1952

Jupce F. NeEtson Licut of Chatham, Va.,
was a deputy to the general convention of
the Protestant Episcopal Church. It was his
eighth time serving as a deputy.

FLETCHER 'T. MCCLINTOCK, a special projects
geologist with Cities Service Co. for some
23 years, has resigned to become an on shore
senior exploration geologist for Michigan
Wisconsin Pipe Line Co., a subsidiary of
American Natural Resources Co.

ROBERT B. MUrRpbocK is serving as a federal
administrative law judge in charge of the
Roanoke, Va., office.

1953

Dr. JOHN I. BOWMAN is commissioner of the
Eastern Virginia Medical Authority. He has
also been elected for a three-year term to the
executive committee of the Virginia-Tide-
water Dental Association.

ROBERT J. MACCuBBIN of Charlotte, N. C., is
executive vice president of Rogers-American
Co., a ,statewide food brokerage firm. He
and his wife have two daughters and a son.

KEITH NELSON has been appointed to the
board of directors of the University of Texas
Law School Alumni Association. He lives in
Wichita Falls, ‘Texas.

1955

DaAvip M. CLINGER has been named director
of publications and public relations services
for Reynolds Metals Co., whose headquar-
ters are in Richmond, Va. Clinger joined
the Reynolds public relations staff in 1957
and served as regional manager in Houston
and Chicago before returning to the cor-
porate headquarters in 1965. Before joining
Reynolds he was on the staff of newspapers
in Richmond, Fredericksburg, Va., and Wil-
liamsport, Pa.

Capt. THOMAS E, LOHREY Jr. is currently
serving as deputy assistant judge advocate
general in the office of the Judge Advocate
General of the Navy, Washington, D. C.

JoHN A. RUTHERFORD, an administrator with
Radford College in Virginia, has been nam-
ed the 1976 Compatriot in Education, an
honor bestowed upon him by the Kappa
Delta Pi honor society.

1957

H. NEIL CANFIELD recently joined Ohio Plate
Glass Co. as vice president and general man-
ager of the floor division. Before moving to
‘Toledo he was employed by Armstrong Cork
Co., as manager of the carpet division, Em-
pire Carpet Corp., a wholly owned subsid-
iary.

After serving as U. S. attorney for the east-
ern district of Pennsylvania, ROBERT E. J.
CURRAN has joined the law firm of Kassab,
Cherry, Curran and Archbold in Media, Pa.

JAMEs H. Davis is vice president of the First
City National Bank in Houston, Texas.

Capt. THOMAS E. Lowrey Jr. (See 1955.)

1958

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Epcar H. MAcKIn-
LAY, a daughter, Alexandra Lee, on Jan. 1,
1976. MacKinlay is a practicing attorney in
Virginia Beach.

After several years in Baltimore, Md., MAx-
WELL CASKIE has returned to ‘Tallahassee,
Fla., where he is working with Florida State
University editing a series of science text-
books for the government Project ISIS un-
der sponsorship of N.S.F.

JOHN S. COLEMAN has joined Altair Airlines
Inc., a Philadelphia-based commuter carrier
serving southern New England, mid-Atlantic
states and Richmond, Va., as director of mar-
keting. He is responsible for all sales pro-
grams, advertising and public relations.

The Rev. E. JAMEs Lewis, Rector of Saint
John’s Episcopal Church in Charleston, W.
Va., has published a book entitled West Vir-
ginia Pilgrim. The book is described as the
reflections of a man who has been stalking
for ten years the parish ministry, not wild
game. Following college, Lewis was a marine
corps officer for three years and then at-
tended Virginia Theological Seminary in
1964. He has served in three churches over
the past ten years. The book is published by
the Seabury Press of New York City.

RANDY LUNSFORD has been elected to the
governing board of the Michigan Educa-
tion Association Public Affairs Council. He
is also doing part-time work as a probation
officer with the Walker Municipal Court
in Walker, Mich.

WILLIAM A. TOWLER III, executive vice presi-
dent of Rattikin Title Co., in Fort Worth
has been elected a director of the Texas
Land ‘Title Association. He is also chair-
man of the national committee of the Ameri-
can Land Title Association and is a member
of the board of managers for the Fort Worth
YMCA.

S. ScoTT WHIPPLE wrote an article, “May the
Lord Toss Him a Bone,” which appeared in
the September issue of Westchester Illustrat-
ed. The article is about America’s oldest
pet cemetery.

1959

JOHN G. KOEDEL Jr., a resident of Warren,
Pa., has been elected to the board of the
Pennsylvania Bank & Trust Co.

RICHARD A. POWELL continues as a teacher

in the overseas dependents’ schools under the
Department of Defense. He is teaching high
school reading in Bermuda.

1960

WILLIAM J. HALEY is a partner in the law
firm of Brannon, Brown, Norris, Vocelle and
Haley in Lake City, Fla. He was elected at-
torney for Columbia County and is a past
president of the National County Attorneys’
Association.

JOHN S. HOPEWELL received his Ph.D. de-
gree in U. S. history from the University of
Virginia in August 1975. He is now teach-

ing at Chatham Hall in Chatham, Va. He

and his wife Betsy have two children.

1961

WALTER J. CRATER JR. is senior systems en-
gineer at Systems Consultants, Inc., of Wash-
ington, D. C. He is currently working on
the integration of electronic warfare sys-
tems into the Navy ship combat systems.

1962

JAMEs APPLEBAUM, an advertising executive
in New York, recently was a guest lecturer
at Rutgers University on the subject ‘“Mar-
keting Communications by the Federal Gov-
ernment.”

DaAvip W. BENN, associated with the interna-
tional division of Chemical Bank, New York,
has been transferred back to New York City
from Sydney, Australia.

L. Davin CALLAWAY III, vice president of
Citibank New York has been assigned to
Hong Kong where he is head of the cor-
porate banking group. He will be in charge
of the bank’s relationship with Hong Kong-
based corporations. He joined Citibank New
York in 1964, Between 1964-67 he attended
New York University’s Graduate School of
Business. In 1972 he took part in the man-
agement program organized by Harvard Uni-
versity Graduate School of Business. Calla-
way and his wife Sally have two children.
The family has joined him in Hong Kong.

ALAN M. Corwin has recently joined Dean
Witter & Co., as an account executive. He
resides in ‘Tacoma, Wash.

RicHARD L. LANG is managing partner for
the Kalamazoo, Mich., law firm of Bauck-
ham, Reed, Lang and Schaefer. The firm en-
gages in general practice with emphasis on
municipal law.

31

Class Notes

Maj. Rurus C. YOUNG JR. was recently as-
signed as head of military law in the Judge
Advocate Division of Marine Headquarters.
He, his wife, and two daughters live in
Annandale, Va.

1963

Frep L. BAKER, of Riverside, Conn., has been
promoted to the position of manager of
strategic planning for IBM, Americas-Far
East Corp. He also serves on the Greenwich,
Conn., Town Council.

J. DOUGLAS FARQUHAR is an associate profes-
sor of art history at the University of Mary-
land. He is author of the book Creation and
Imitation: The Work of a 15th Century
Manuscript Illuminator, published by Nova
University. .

Dr. MICHAEL SUSSMAN has joined the faculty
at the University of Virginia as assistant
professor of orthopedic surgery. He comes to
Charlottesville after a year at the Children’s
Hospital Medical Center in Boston. He and
his wife Nancy have one son Evans.

1964

MICHAEL E. LEVIN, an attorney and former
mayor of Lakewood, N. J., served as Ocean
County coordinator for U. S. Sen. Harrison
A. Williams’ re-election campaign. Levin, a
graduate of the New York University Law
School, is a past president of the Ocean
County Young Democrats.

J. BRUCE WHELIHAN, formerly with the White
House staff in Washington, D. C., is now as-
sociated with Alex Brown & Sons, a stock-
broker in Washington.

Epcar H. MACcKINLAy (See 1958.)

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE M. SANDERS, a
daughter, Judith Lee, on April 28, 1976. The
family lives in Cherry Hill, N. J., where San-
ders is staff clinical psychologist at the gui-
dance center of Camden County, N. J.

C. EDMONDs ALLEN III, an investment banker,
is president of Gloucester International Ltd.

Formerly with the University of Maryland
history department, HAL S. CHASE is now a
full-time professor at Ball State University
in Muncie, Ind.

Victor R. GALEF and wife Mimi, live in
Northbrook, Ill., with their two children.
Galef is director of marketing for Wyler
Foods, a division of Borden Co.

32

1966

Maurice R. Firess has been named a_ na-
tional correspondent in the Washington Bu-
reau of the Cox Newspapers. He will be part
of a three-person team assigned to cover the
Carter White House and administration. The
Cox Newspapers include a number of city
newspapers in Georgia, Florida, Texas and
Ohio. Fliess joined the Cox organization in
1970 as a reporter for the Atlanta Journal.
For the past four years he has served as
the Journal Washington correspondent. He
and his wife Elfi live in Reston, Va., with
their son Kevin and daughter Katja.

CHARLES N. GRIFFIN IJ, former coordinator
of international estimating and planning for
Eastman Kodak in Rochester, N. Y., has been
named operations manager for Kodak in
Sao Paulo, Brazil. He and his wife Jody and
two sons moved to Brazil in December, 1976.

1967
MARRIAGE: RICHARD LEWIS GRIFFIN and

Denise Lorraine Donnelly on Oct. 2, 1976.
The couple lives in Framingham, Me.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. LAWRENCE FELL-
MAN, a son, Marcus Asher, on Sept. 2, 1976.
Fellman is working with shopping center
development with the firm of Rader Proper-
ties in Dallas, Texas. He is also on the eco-
nomics faculty of the Dallas County Com-
munity College District.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. W. H. SLEDGE, a
daughter, Ann Elizabeth, on May 6, 1976.
Sledge is a doctor with the Air Force in San
Antonio, Texas, and expects to pursue an
academic career in psychiatry.

E. THomMaAs Cox, formerly with the law firm
of Booth, Prichard & Dudley in Fairfax, Va.,
is now in Newport News. He has been named
an associate of the Patten & Wornom law
firm and serves as an assistant city attorney.

BrAD ROCHESTER is working on a_ weekly
newspaper, The Courier, in Clemmons, N. C.
He worked actively in politics in 1976 as
Democratic precinct chairman and was a
delegate to the county and state Democratic
conventions.

WILLIAM L. WANT has been working as a

 

Four WEL men have formed a law partnership in Pensacola, Fla. The name of the firm is Clark, Parting-
ton, Hart & Hart. Pictured in their new office are W. Christopher Hart, '68; William H. Clark, ’60,
'63L; Robert D. Hart Jr., 63; and Donald H. Partington, ’61, ’64L.

 

 

 

United States
of
America

 

 

trial attorney at the Department of Justice
for the last three years. He is involved in
the pollution control section which repre-
sents the environmental protection agency
in litigation.

1968

C. EpMonps ALLEN III (See 1965.)

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL S. HALL, a
daughter, Allison Scott, on Nov. 15, 1976.
Hall is assistant vice president of Palm
Beach Trust Co. in Palm Beach, Fla.

Roy G. HARRELL JR. is engaged in the pri-
vate practice of law in St. Petersburg, Fla.

HENRY L. (Roppy) RoeEpiGeR III is spending
the 1976-77 academic year as a visiting as-
sistant professor of psychology at the Uni-
versity of Toronto. He is on leave from
Purdue University.

WILLIAM W. STUART is engaged in the pri-
vate practice of law in Chicago, and is a pro-
fessor at DePaul University College of Law.
He recently published an article entitled
“Tax Status of Scholarship and Fellowship
Grants” in the Emory Law Journal.

1970

MARRIAGE: CHARLES P. CowELL and Anne
Katherine LaHue, on Sept. 2, 1976, in Santa
Barbara, Calif. ‘The ceremony took place in
the Santa Barbara Botanical Gardens. Cowell
is pursuing an M.A. in organic chemistry at
the University of California Santa Barbara.
His wife also attends UCSB and is pursuing
a doctorate in marine biology.

H. WALTER BARRE has joined the firm of
Frost, Johnson, Read & Smith, Inc., in Spar-
tanburg, S. C., where he works in the area
of financial planning.

Davin S$. CUMMING is presently room serv-
ice manager at the Plaza Hotel in New
York City.

Dr. Henry A. FLEISHMAN is in his third year
of general surgery residency at the Univer-
sity of Kentucky Medical Center in Lex-
ington.

ANDREW M. GomBos Jr. received the M.S. de-
gree in geology from the University of Ili-
nois in 1973 and completed work on_ his
Ph.D. last sumer at Florida State University.
While at FSU he participated in the Deep
Sea Drilling Project’s Leg 36 to the Anarc-
tic. He also spent a semester studying in

ALUMNI INVITED
to
FANCY DRESS 1977
February 25
Woody Herman Band
$12 in advance
$15 at door

Write the Student Activities Board, Washing-
ton and Lee University, Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

‘THe Srtepenr Acrivities Boarp
OF
WaAstuNGYON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
CORDIALLY INVITES YOU TO JOURNEY TO
PARIS, FRANCE
TO CELEBRATE THE SEVENTIETI ANNUAL
TANGY, DRESS BALE

featuring

Woopy HERMAN
AND THE “PituNDERING HERb
FRIDAY EVENING, FEBRUARY TWENTY-FIETH
NINETEEN FLUNDRED SEVENTY-SEVEN
AY HALF PAST EIGHT
EARLY-FIELDING STUDENT CENTER

PAssPORT MUST BE
PRESENTED AT THE DOOR

Biack Tie

 

 

Germany. He is now employed as a produc-
tion geologist with Chevron Oil Company in
Lafayette, La.

WILLIAM M. GOTTWALD, who holds the M.D.
degree from Tulane University, is currently
an intern at the Medical College of Virginia
in Richmond.

REEVE W. KELSEY graduated from Duke Uni-
versity School of Law last spring and passed
the Ohio bar exam. He is now engaged in
private practice in Toledo.

The Rev. JoHN E. MILLER is currently en-
gaged in doctoral graduate studies at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, Va. He
has received the Charles F. Myers Fellowship
for study in theology and ethics. Miller has
taught in the religion department at the
University of Richmond since 1974.

SHELDON MILLER graduated from Memphis
State University School of Law in 1974 and
is now engaged in the private practice of
law as a partner in the firm of Weiss and
Miller in Memphis, Tenn.

EpWARD A. (NED) POWELL JR. is attending
the University of North Carolina in their
graduate business administration program.
He lives in Chapel Hill.

HARRY L. SALZBERG has relocated in Rich-
mond, Va., where he is employed as a stock-
broker with Wheat, First Securities, Inc.
Salzberg was formerly with the Honolulu
office of Blyth, Eastman, Dillon.

Dr. Bruce S. SAMUELS is presently a second-
year resident in internal medicine at Charity
Hospital in New Orleans, La.

197]

CHARLES F. (CHIP) Harris, formerly with
Prentiss Court Advertising Agency in Green-
ville, S. C., is now president of Upper Valley
Press, Inc., of Bradford, Vt. The firm pro-
duces 15 weekly newspapers and_ shopper-
type publications. Harris and his wife Carol
have one daughter Ramey.

DR. CONNOR SMITH completed medical school
at Emory University, did a surgery intern-
ship at the Medical University of South
Carolina and is now in the flight surgeon
program of the U.S. Navy. He and Marian
E. McGregor were married on Dec. 28, 1975,
in Anderson, S. C.

PAUL S. ‘[RIBLE was elected to the United
States House of Representatives from the
Ist District of Virginia and assumed office
in January. Trible was formerly law clerk

to U.S. District Court Judge Albert Bryan
and Assistant U. S. Attorney for the Eastern
District of Virginia. He lately served as
Commonwealth’s Attorney for Essex County.

1972

MARRIAGE: JOHN C. O’NEAL and Nancy
Todd Vaughan, on Aug. 7, 1976, in Frede-
ricksburg, Va. Among the groomsmen were
Charles Perry Jr., "73 and Nimrod Long Jr.,
‘73. O'Neal is pursuing a doctoral degree in
French at UCLA. The couple live in Los
Angeles, Calif.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. MIcHAEL N. Warb,
a son, Christopher Michael, on Aug. 3, 1976.
Ward is presently serving as a chemical ad-
visor with the U. S. Army and is stationed
in Butzbach, Germany.

Ropert R. HATTEN has become a partner of
the Newport News law firm of Patten and
Wornom. Prior to joining the firm Hatten
served as law clerk for Federal District Court
Judge John A. MacKenzie.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs S. MAHAN III,
a son, James Slaughter IV, on Sept. 21, 1976.
Mahan is a corporate bank officer with Wa-
chovia Bank in Winston-Salem, N. C.

L. Pric—E BLACKFORD is an associate in the
corporate finance department of Dillon,
Read & Co., Inc., in New York City.

JAMes H. Ciapp is serving as law clerk to
Judge Marvin H. Smith, Associate Judge of
the Maryland Court of Appeals.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON II, a partner in the
Frierson Plantation, is engaged in the
cotton, timber, soybean and beef cattle busi-
ness. He is a deacon in the First Presbyterian
Church and an active member of the Shreve-
port Downtown Rotary Club. He and _ his
wife, the former Ivy Bratton Hedgcock, live
in Shreveport, La.

MicHAEL Houck recently received the M.S.
degree in Library Science from Catholic Uni-
versity and is currently employed as a con-
sultant by the Communications Workers of
America at their Washington headquarters.

WILLIAM G. K. MERRILL is employed _ by
Management Leadtime, Inc., as a consultant
in corporate strategic planning in Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

CHARLES D. PERRY JR., is employed by
Perry Supply Co., Inc., in Birmingham, Ala.,
and is also president of Charles Perry Re-

33

Class Notes

claiming Co. He is president of the Birming-
ham German Club and a junior board
member of the Birmingham Downtown Club.

Bruce L. PHILLIPS is engaged in the private
practice of law as a partner in the firm
of Venzie and Phillips. He and his wife and
their two daughters reside in Springfield,
Pa.

FREDERICK E. ROBERTS is in his second year
as pastor of the Gaston Charge of the Unit-
ed Methodist Church of Gaston, N. C.

Since receiving his M.A. degree in physical
education from Appalachian State Univer-
sity in June 1976, MICHAEL SCHAEFFER has
been employed as soccer coach at Providence
Day School in Charlotte. The team won the
Charlotte Independent School Athletic As-
sociation Soccer Championship this fall.

PAUL C. SUTHERN was promoted to admini-
strative assistant of the executive vice presi-
dent of Conval Corp. in October 1976. His
duties will include marketing, finance and
manufacturing work in the U.S. and abroad.
Conval Corp. is a division of Condec Corp.
in Old Greenwich, Conn.

Tell us!

Mark R. Younc, who holds the M.B.A. de-
gree from the University of Virginia, has
joined the sales staff of WXEX-TV in Rich-
mond, Va., as local account executive.

1974

MARRIAGE: Jack E. ALTMAN III and Mar-
garet Lee Bryson, on June 12, 1976. Alfred
Marshall, ’74, was a member of the wedding
party. Also in attendance were Charles H.
Sipple III, ‘53, and Charles H. Sipple IV,
‘78. The couple lives in Nashotah, Wis.,
where Altman is a senior at the Episcopal
Theological Seminary at Nashotah House.

MARVIN P. DANIEL has been promoted to
marketing officer with Southern Bankshares
Inc., of Richmond, Va.

R. LEIGH FRACKELTON JR. is in his third
year of study at the T. C. Williams School
of Law at the University of Richmond.

JEFFREY A. Hooper, an attorney in private
practice, is also currently serving as _assis-
tant solicitor for Zanesville, Ohio.

JAMEs RoGERs is with Philadelphia National
Bank in the credit department, working in

YOU ARE NOW A REPORTER FOR W&L. Please send us news of yourself so that we
can pass it on through the magazine to your W&L friends. AND REMEMBER, DON’T
MAKE A MOVE WITHOUT LETTING US KNOW. Every address change provided
by the Post Office now costs 25 cents. We could go broke at that rate. So please send
your correct address and news to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University,

Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

 

Name Class
Address

City State Zip
News Item

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

34

Pennsylvania and mid-Atlantic financial in-
stitutions.

G. WATSON TEBO JR. is working on his M.S.
degree in microbiology at the University of
Southwestern Louisiana in Lafayette. He
holds a graduate assistantship for teaching

and research.
1975

MARRIAGE: PAu B. Kurtz and Katherine
Neilson on Nov. 6, 1976. The couple lives
in St. Louis, Mo.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES J. BROWN
IlJ, a daughter, Courtney Slone, on May 12,
1976. Brown is engaged in the practice of
law with the firm of Hunton & Williams in
Richmond, Va.

CAROLINE WATTs has formed a partnership
for the general practice of law in Madison,
Va., with her father, M. Williamson Watts,
48L.

1976

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THomas P. O’DELL, a
son, Andrew Peyton, on Nov. 12, 1976. The
family lives in Hodgenville, Ky., where
O’Dell is engaged in the private practice of
law.

PETER R. CAVALIER is a management trainee
in commercial credit with Fidelity Union
Trust Co. in Newark, N. J. He is a member
in the Essex County Chapter of the Ameri-
can Institute of Banking.

FRANCIS CHARLES CLARK has recently joined
the law firm of Womble, Carlyl, Sandridge
and Rice in Winston-Salem, N. C.

FRANK L. DUEMMLER received the $250 first
prize in the 1976 Nathan Burkan Memorial
Competition for his essay, “Library Photo-
copying An International Perspective.” The
Burkan Competition is sponsored annually
by the American Society of Composers,
Authors and Publishers designed to stimu-
late interest in the field of copyright law.
Duemmler is associated with the New York
law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Pal-
mer & Wood.

MARINUS QUIST is port representative for
Tidex International, Inc., in Jakarta, In-
donesia. Tidex is a wholly-owned subsidiary

of Tidewater Marine Service. Quist’s re-
sponsibilities include management of 15
vessels.

PAUL SIMPSON has been appointed staff as-
sistant to the admissions department of
Alliance College. He lives in Meadville, Pa.

 

 

In Memoriam

 

 

191]

JAMES GRANVILLE JOHNSTON, a retired civil
engineer, died Nov. 19, 1976, in Lexington,
Va. Johnston served as chairman of the
Selective Service Board from 1941-46. He
was a former member of the Rockbridge
Historical Society and an Elder of the
Oxford Presbyterian Church.

LOL?

The editor sincerely regrets this delay in re-
porting the following obituary of Raymond
Francis Garcia. At the time of his death in
May 1974, RAYMOND FRANcIs.) GaArcrIA lived
in Daytona Beach, Fla., and was a retired
consulting engineer and an _ executive of
several companies. He attended Washing-
ton and Lee’s law school as a special student
in 1911-12 but soon after entered the en-
gineering business. Garcia was a former vice
president of Central Foundry Co, in New
York City and later was associated with
M. R. Boyce Co. of Clearwater, Fla., J. B.
McCrary Engineering Corp. of Atlanta, and
M. G. Aldridge Contracting Firm of Macon,
Ga., until his retirement in 1964. He con-
tinued as a consulting engineer until a few
years before his death.

1914

ROGER JONES BEAR, a former engineer and
safety director with Kroger Co. of Cin-
cinnati, died Oct. 27, 1976, in Pulaski, Va.
Prior to joining Kroger Co. in 1933, Bear
was an engineer on the construction of the
Cincinnati Union Terminal and with the
Norfolk & Western Railway. He was a veter-
an of World War I and a member of the
American Society of Civil Engineers and
the National Safety Council.

1917

JosePpH Hopcson BALL died Oct. 25, 1976, in
Jacksonville, Fla. He had lived in Jackson-
ville for 44 years, Ball was formerly in
Washington, D. C., where he served with
the Federal Housing Administration for a
short time. He was instrumental in estab-
lishing F.H.A. offices in Tampa and Miami.
He was chief of the mortgage and risk sec-
tion of the F.H.A. for 30 years and also was
acting chief underwriter. Ball was a veteran
of World War I having served in the Army
Air Corps.

HERBERT GROOMS SMITH died Nov. 1, 1976.
A native of Newport News, Smith was named
judge of the Corporation Court there in
1938 and held the position until his re-
tirement in 1961. Smith served overseas with
the U.S. Army during World War I. He
opened a law practice in Newport News in
1920 and five years later was elected Com-
monwealth Attorney. Smith was instrumen-
tal in establishing the Peninsula United
Fund and in raising funds for the construc-
tion of Riverside Hospital. He was a 50-year
member of the American Legion and served
as a member of the board of directors of the
United Virginia Bank, Citizens and Marine.

1918

ADISON GILMORE CUMMINGS, superintendent
of schools for 21 years in Bedford County,
Va., died Sept. 16, 1976. Cummings had been
involved with education since 1919 and serv-
ed as principal in Rockbridge County, Alex-
andria, and Farmville, Va. He retired in
1953.

DR. ROBERT G. VANCE JR., a roentgenologist
in Boston, Mass., before retiring to Sara-
sota, Fla., in 1958, died April 12, 1976. Vance
received his medical degree from the Uni-
versity of Virginia in 1922. He was a mem-
ber of the American Medical Association, the
Massachusetts Medical Society, the Ameri-
can Roentgen Ray Society, the Radiological
Society of North America, and the New Eng-
land Roentgen Ray Society.

1920

CARL KNApp GILCHRIST, former city council-
man of Charleston, W. Va., and former
vice president of public relations with
Columbia Gas of West Virginia, died Oct.
7, 1976. He was secretary of the board of
trustees for Morris Harvey College where he
served for a period of time as public rela-
tions director. He was also a former mem-
ber of the municipal planning commission.
Gilchrist was a past president and lieuten-
ant governor of the Kiwanis Club, a for-
mer member of the Community Music As-
sociation, Visiting Nurses Association and
the Council on World Service and Finance
of the United Methodist Church.

1925

W. CARROLL (JOHNNY) MEAD died Nov. 2,
1976. He began working in the brokerage
business in 1926 after teaching for a time at
St. Paul’s School. In 1932 he developed his
own brokerage partnership, Mead, Irvine &

Co., in Baltimore. He continued there until
1971 when he became a consultant and ad-
viser to Reynolds Securities, Inc. In the late
‘30s, Mead served as president of the Balti-
more Stock Exchange. During World War
II, he served as a captain in the Marine
Corps with an air unit on Midway Island.
In 1950 the United States Marines Post of
the American Legion, of which he was a
member, honored him for his civic service.
That same year, Mead served as state chair-
man of the annual fund drive of the Ameri-
can Cancer Society. A former vice president
of the Investment Bankers Association, he
served as president of the Baltimore Bond
Club, trustee of the Peabody Institute,
trustee of St. Paul’s School for 40
years, and as a member of the South Balti-
more General Hospital.

1929

JAMEs MARSHALL FAULKNER, a former attor-
ney of Georgetown, Del., and judge of the
family court of the State of Delaware, died
Sept. 23, 1976. Faulkner was a salesman and
executive in the package industry from
1932 to 1947 and operated a dairy from 1947
to 1962. After attending the University of
Maryland night school between 1957 and
1960, he was awarded the LL.B. degree in
1960. In 1962 he began to practice law in
Georgetown.

HARRY MAURICE WILSON JR., a banker and in-
vestment analyst of Jacksonville, Fla., died
Nov. 10, 1976. Wilson retired as vice presi-
dent and trust officer of the Florida Na-
tional Bank of Jacksonville in 1970. Previous-
ly he had been a partner in Childress and
Co. He was a founder of the Jacksonville
Financial Analysts Society. During World
War II he was a lieutenant commander with
the U.S. Navy. Wilson was an honorary mem-
ber of The Seminole Club, Timuquana
Country Club and the Navy League of Jack-
sonville. He was also a past king of Ye
Mystic Revellers.

1930

HAROLD MERWIN PLATT, a former attorney of
South Hampton, N. Y., died Nov. 14, 1976,
in Winter Haven, Fla. Platt was a former
member of the Supreme Court of the United
States Bar, New York Bar, and the U. S.
Court of Appeals, District of Columbia Bar.
He was a member of the American Legion.

193]
Boyp H. LACKEy, a retired executive with
American Cynamid Co. of Savannah, Ga.,

35

died in April 1976. Lackey joined the
company in 1931 and was production super-
intendent.

1932

Lestie S. LOCKETT, an attorney in Corpus
Christi, Texas, died in July 1976. Lockett
was a partner of the firm Kleberg, Mob-
ley, Lockett & Weil.

JoHN HENRY WALKER, a resident of Ponte
Vedra Beach, Fla., for the last five years,
died Oct. 28, 1976. He was active in the
insurance business and had his own agency
in Jacksonville, Fla. Prior to moving to
Florida, Walker was well known in the in-
surance circles in Chicago, Ill. He served
as a commander in the Naval Reserve in the
Pacific Theatre during World War II.

1934

FRED WILLIAM KELLEY, an electronic engi-
neer with the Marshall Space Flight Center
in Huntsville, Ala., for 21 years, died Jan.
31, 1976. Kelley served with the United
States Navy during World War II.

1935

Described by the Knoxville News-Sentinel
as an “athlete ... artist . . . sports writer

. official . . . instructor .. . friend,” WIL-
LIAM HASKIEL Dyer died Oct. 30, 1976. Dyer
worked at the News-Sentinel for many years,
first as a sports writer and later as cCar-
toonist. He was renowned for his Dyer-
grams, cartoon illustrations of the Univer-
sity of Tennessee’s football games. Some of
Dyer’s sketches adorn the walls of the
Stokely Center, UT's athletic center. Dyer
was a charter member of the Sequoyah Hills
Presbyterian Church and _ served as_ both
an elder and deacon at the church. He
taught in the Sunday School and provided
many cartoons for church projects.

1953

OAKLEIGH RUSSELL FRENCH JR., president of
French Advertising in Creve Coeur, Mo.,
and an advertising and public relations con-
sultant, died Aug. 25, 1976. French was a
past president of the Industrial Marketing
Club of St. Louis and a member of the re-
ception committee for the advertising clubs
of St. Louis. He was a former assistant dis-
trict commissioner for the Boy Scouts of
America, a former director of public rela-
tions for the City of Creve Coeur, and a
former sales promotion manager for the
Monsanto Chemical Co. of St. Louis.

36

 

Help us round up
these lost alumni

The Alumni Office does not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.

Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,

send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

F. Sheldon Anderson Jr., ’70
Kent W. Andrews, 66
Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75
Michael L. Beatty, *69
Augustus P. G. Biddle, *68L
Alden E. C. Bigelow, 68
William E. Boggiano Jr., ’56
Jeffrey C. Burris, "73
James F. Bycott, °70

David R. Duncan, ’68
George H. Dunn, ’65
Calvin L. Durham, ’27
William C. Dwiggins, 37
William D. Dyer, °62
Daniel A. Eadie, ’67
George E. Eagle, 752
David V. Eakin, ’61
James T. Earle, ’46
Gerald M. Earley, ’58
Vincent B. Earley, °38
Gilbert S. Earp, °25
Everett C. Easter Jr., ’49
James H. Eckert, "40
Wallace C. Edmondson, 731
John F. Edmundson, ‘33
Raymond W. Edwards, ’27
George W. Effinger, ’08
Wilfred Eldred, ’09
William P. Ellington, ’25
James B. Ellis Jr., ’31
John G. Ellison, ‘14
James G. Elms, °24
Clausen Ely Jr., ’67
Thomas P. England, ’20
Lawrence E. Englert, *44
Walker G. Erickson, *64
Peter Erlinghagen, 7°56
William A. Edwin, 713

Bill E. Evans, *64

Donald E. Evans Jr., ’68
Gill C. Evans, °58

Robert C. Evans, ’51L
Robert N. Evans, °59

J. G. Blaine Ewing III, °67
Roy E. Fabian Jr., ’43L
Francis W. Falconer, ’31
Charles J. Farrington Jr., ‘50
Robert K. Faust, ’72

John S. Fechnay, ‘69
James F. Feeney, “49L
Green B. Fenley Jr., ‘20
Willard S. Ferris, °36
Robert L. Fertig, ’75

Joel F. Fields, °56
Randolph D. Fingland, ’67
Harry J. Fisher, *56L

Iver Fishman, 750
William M. Fittge, °50
Terence Flannery, °53
Robert L. Fleming, °59
Mark S. Floyd, ’71
Robert Floyd, ’42

Edgar D. Flynn Jr., °37L
William H. Foard, ‘06
James N. Foley, °66
Harry A. Foltz, 62
Hugh L. Fontaine, ‘16
George W. Fooshe, ’24
Francis W. Foote, °67
Charles H. Forbes Jr., ‘51
Douglas J. Ford, °75
Jonathan Ford, °38
William J. Forrestel, "44
Clinton D. Forsyth, ‘23
Malcolm O. Forsyth, 34
Eugene B. Fortson, °57L
Carl A. Foss, ‘20

C. B. Foster, 713L

Lester’ J. :Fox, 21
Roland J. Fraier, °48
Frank E. Freeman, ’31
James B. Frizzell, ‘51
Richard F. Gaines, °59
Charles D. Gardner, ’26
Francis P. Gardner, °13
Zalmon H. Garfield, ’°39
Daniel B. Garrett, 66
Henry L. Garrett, °12
Bernard C. Garrison Jr., 35
Gordon D. Gary, °43
John E. Gates, °37
Steven T. Gates, *71
Eldridge L. Gathright, °37
Samuel A. Gay, ’59L
Howard E. Gellis, °57L
Charles Ghiselin Jr., ‘12
David M. Gibson, ’6l
Edward D. Gibson, °57
Fred G. Gibson, ’20
William L. Gibson, °14
William R. Gibson, °72
David W. Giese Jr., °72
Burr E. Giffen Jr., 43
David A. Gilbert, °73
Falconer R. Gilbert, °50
John H. Gilbert, ’67
Webster R. Gilbert, ’28
James S. Gilman, ’70
George E. Gilmore, ’22
Leland T. Gilmore, °53L
Samuel D. Gilpin, ‘11L
William M. Ginn, 69

Eugene N. S. Girard II, ’59
Howard Gise, ’3l

Stephen A. Giuffra, ’29L
Philip Glass, °26

William B. Glasscock, ’24
Robert D. Glasser, ’11
Norman G. Glassman, ’66L
William R. Glattly, °53
Claude T. Glenn, ’23
William S. Glenn III, 753
Jacob Goldberg, °27

John Gonzales, ’45

Sam Goodman, ’26
William C. Goodwin, °33
Laurence E. Gordon Jr., ’45
Philip J. Gordon, 31
Charles F. Gore, ’25
Joseph D. Gorman, ‘65
Alexander E. Graham, 749
Bert Graham, °49

William W. Graham, ’71
John C. Grandin, ’70
William M. Gravatt III, ’71L
Theodore W. Graves Jr., ‘65
Forest W. Gray Jr., 49
John B. Gray III, ’61
William D. Gray, °43
William F. Gray Jr., ’65
Steven H. Greenia, *68
Otis T. Gregg, °12

Harry J. Gregory, ’50
Thomas W. Griffin, ’30
Charles B. Griffis, ’38
David R. Grogan, ’63

Ira Gross, 731

John E. Grossman, ’27
Henry E. Guerriero Jr., ’48
John G. Guthrie, ‘61
Robert L. Guyer, 55
Lewis L. Haas, ’34

Peter E. Haiman, ’60
Thomas J. Hale, ’08

Larry D. Hall, °52
Reginald Y. S. Hallett, *50
Charles W. Hamilton, 735
James C. Hamilton, °43
Alvin M. Hammell, ’27
Joseph Hanaway, ’55
George G. Hancock Jr., ’60
James C. Hanks, *49
Robert S. Hansel, ’12

John H. Hansford Jr., ’23
Mark K. Hanson, ’75
Richard Harding, *44
Pliny H. Hardy, ’09
Frederick G. Harmon, 753

 

No library is complete without...

The 1975 Alumni Directory

The Indispensable Reference Book
For Every Washington and Lee Alumnus

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni Direc-
tory, 1749-1975, is now available at only $5.00 a copy,
including postage. The unique feature that distinguishes
this directory from past editions is that the 1975 issue
was produced by a computerized method.

The directory has three sections:

Alphabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since
1749 is listed alphabetically, together with his class, his
degree, his address, and his occupation.

Class List—A full list of the members of each class, in-
cluding degree holders and non-graduates, appears in
this section.

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by
cities within these states as well as in foreign countries.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be with-
out this valuable reference book in his home or office.
Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send még... 00... copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, including postage. Check
is enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

 

Zip

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

Alumni Directory
1749-1975

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
Published by
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI INCORPORATED

1976

 

 

 

ALLEN—ETHAN 31 LLB (1925-31X) WILLKIE FARR
& GALLAGHER 277 PARK AVE NEW YORK NY 10
017 LAWYER,PARTNER WILLKIE, FARR,GAL-
LAGHER q

ALLEN—EUGENE K * 31 (1927-28)

ALLEN—FREDERICK M 43 BA (1939-43) MA GEN-
ERAL DELIVERY TAOS NM 87571

ALLEN—G WILLIAM JR 69 BA (1965-69) 30 MAN-
OR DRIVE HUDSON OH 44236 LAW STUDENT
OHIO NORTHERN

ALLEN—G ASHLEY 65 BS (1961-65) PHD 130
BURNETT DR SPARTANBURG SC 29302 DIR OF
DEV DEERING MILLIKEN RES CORP q

Sample
Alphabetical
List

Entry

 

 

                 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A < oe. i “
-
: :
: 4
us
: \
¥
oe :
:
e
:
e
,
:
:
: i ie ee 2 ‘ er hee:

         

                   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

