the alumni magazine of washington and lee university APRIL 1980

Che
oe
2

      
    

OC) « WOR

 

e @
e e
e 2
e o
e
e °
° °
e e
e e
e @
® Pa
® e
e °
® e
@ e
; $
‘ ;
3
°, ¢
e

 

      
 

  

s
PCr eececcccccce®®

    

   

 

 

Me

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 55, Number 3, April 1980

William C. Washburn, °40 0.0.0.0... ccc cece cece eee ees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ..................5. Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 2.0.0.0... 00. ccc cece eee Associate Editor
M. Gray Coleman, 79 .............:00ceceeeees Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ...........cce cece cece cece teen es Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ............c cece cee eeneee ee eeeneeeenenes Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Phi Beta Kappa Convocation ................0c0eeeee eee 1
Faculty After Hours ................ceceeeeenenenenenenees 4
H. Robert Huntley ..................cccceceneee eee ees 4
Louis W. Hodges ............ sebeeedetvcderescvacseers 5
Frank A. Parsons ............cccceseeeeeeneeeeeeeeeees 7
David B. Dickens ................:.cceceeceeeeeee eee 8
Jefferson Davis Futch III ....................0.0008. 9
J. Brown Goehring .................6. Nupaeeieeeeese. 10
Roy L. Steinheimer .................::eceeeee eee eee 12
Fancy Dress 80 .............cceceeeeee ees woes niaadeeve:. 13
WKL Gazette 2.0... c cece ene e etna een ne eee ees 16
Chapter NeWS ............cceccceeceeeceneneeneneneeeenenens 20
Class Notes ..........cccccecceee ee eneeeeeaeeeeneeenaenaens 23
In Memoriam ............. ccc cece cece eee ee cece eee eeeneeeas 28

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
President

RICHARD A. DENNY, 152, Atlanta, Ga.
Vice President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD BAIN, 49, Spartanburg, S. C:
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.
PHiLie R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.

G. RUSSELL Lapp, 57, Mobile, Ala.
JoHN H. MCCORMACK JrR., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

ots

7

ON THE COVER: These W&L faculty members and

-an administrator seem to be thinking odd thoughts:

the Papacy, music-making, beekeeping, beer-brew-
ing, comic-strip characters, flying, flag-waving. But
it’s not as strange as you think. To find out why these
teachers are thinking what theyre thinking and why
W&L is the better for it, turn to Page 4.

 

 

NN

|
_
ee

Ss
Soe

es

 

Phi Beta Kappa

political, economic and social stability for
its members and at the same time enables
individuals to express their uniqueness, to
enjoy sufficient freedom of thought and
action to become all they are capable of
becoming. It is a dilemma no modern
nation has ever solved; the chance that we,
who have always prided ourselves on
being equal to any and all perplexing
situations, may fail, seems real. A major
part of my theme today, therefore, is that
careful examination of the merits of
constructive individualism, including the
responsibilty it implies, is indicated, in
fact, long overdue.

“Let us ask ourselves these important
questions: How can individuality be
preserved and man rescued from the
anonymity of the crowd? Why and to what

extent has man fallen victim to the mass? A

third question, more specific, would be:
Why are so many Americans
uncomfortable, troubled, anxiety-ridden?
In response to this question, we probably
would say: inflation, the energy problem,
threats to our security from abroad. But if
we focus the question on our chance to
express our individuality, we are apt to
say: too many people. . . .

“What defense do we have against the
contagion of the masses? How do we
acquire a meaningful and motivating sense
of individual responsibility? No doubt you
expect me to say education—and I do!
Education, rightly conceived and properly
implemented, is the answer to many
problems. “The mind,” wrote Milton, “is
its own place.” When one fails to find in
the physical world a place where he can be
himself, he can retreat to that most
wonderful of all creations, the mind. There
he can find that coveted independence and
individuality. In a society so given to
leisure pursuits as ours we must face the
inevitable: in the crowding we have now
and will continue to have in even greater
proportions, many, perhaps all, of our
favorite leisure pursuits—golf, tennis,
sailing—will soon disappear. But there is
one activity that will always remain:
reading. Many people who can exploit this
most enduring and potentially satisfying of
all leisure activities simply refuse to do so.
It would be interesting to know what

2

convocation.

NK AE AOS

pA RAR RR OC AORTA RRA SOOT
‘ %

 

 

Professor Emory Kimbrough Jr. and Dr. E. William Noland, before entering Lee C hapel for the

 

 

 

 

New initiates are greeted by Professors Kimbrough and John M. Evans, president and vice president

of WUL’s PBK chapter.

percent of our population whose education
has carried them beyond high school have
not read a mind-stretching book in their
adult lives. One has only to survey the
types of printed rubbish displayed—and
sold—in our supermarkets to be convinced
of the shallowness of the reading habits of
so many Americans.

“The educated man has by far the best
chance of being the true individual.
Learning has enabled him to ferret out
what is important, what endures, even
what merely delights the spirit. If we can
imagine our planet the victim of a
stultifying homogeneity—even distribution
of people, no distinction between country
and city, where the bulldozer has torn
down the high places and filled in the
valleys—it will be the educated man who
will have the best chance of remaining
calm in such an atrociously sad
circumstance... .

“Our commitment to universal
education has obvious merit, but we are

 

entitled to speculate on misplaced
emphases. Ours is an education that is
broad but shallow, broadly administered
but superficial, where the individual and
the mass are hardly distinguishable. The
products of our educational system, our
young people, are the most able of all
generations of students; they are clever,
attractive, self-confident. But has their
education equipped them to recognize and
cope with the pressures of the mass? I
doubt it.

“Education must serve many masters.
An obvious one is the job of fitting the
student to society, of providing the social
cement we need to hold society together.
Another one, quite visible and also of
major importance, is that of teaching basic
skills. But two others, if we are to believe
what the Greeks taught us about
democracy and the worth of the individual,
are important also yet suffer from neglect.
Education should enhance individuality,
but the challenge often goes unmet.

William E. Brownin
the ceremonies.

* ? 2

Teachers at all levels are carried away by
what they see as the values of group
thinking and committee action. The
student who takes the initiative in
expressing his views is often seen as a poor
student and/or a disturbing influence in
the school. But the role of education in
enhancing individuality is not enough;
education must also teach individual
responsibility. Unfortunately, this mission
often gets little and distorted attention.
While cheating is frowned on, the
penalties are mild, and when the offender
is a disadvantaged student, teachers have
been known to look the other way. Social
promotion, grade inflation, and lowering of
standards do nothing to promote
individuality and individual responsibility.
In fact, such abuses militate against the
bright and energetic student in that they
demotivate, and against the slow and lazy
(unmotivated, if you prefer), because they
create the illusion of accomplishment
where none actually exists. The latter, the

Student body president-elect Robert H. Willis Jr. with family in a brea

     

k from the day’s activities.

slow and unmotivated, pay the piper when
they get diplomas that lead to jobs they
cannot handle. We must help the
disadvantaged in proper ways; “helping
them help themselves” has a good ring.
Excusing them and looking the other way
is not the answer if our goal is to be fair to
them—and it must be!

“In discussing education my aim is not
to destroy the good but simply to
emphasize more the neglected. I am not
suggesting that we abandon universal
education, but, as it is currently practiced,
its leveling effect is by no means an
unmixed blessing. “The fateful fact of our
time,’ says Eric Hoffer, “is not the
advancement of backward countries, but
(the) leveling down of advanced
countries.” Nor would I slight the current
attention to social adjustment. I am merely
striking out at what I see as neglect in
nurturing individuality and individual
responsibility. To those who argue that we
are doing as much as we can with the

 

resources at hand I would say: “Yes, you
are more right than wrong. We need more
money, to personalize education.” A
nation that spends so much on luxuries
should be able to devise more revenue
sources for education. We need to
rearrange our priorities. We need people
content with bumpier roads so that we can
have more well-trained minds. We need
more universities of the size and
orientation of Washington and Lee!”

Later in the day, after his speech,
Noland returned to the chapel to be
inducted as an honorary initiate of W&L’s
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. At the
ceremony, he was joined by 33 other
initiates—students and graduates of last
year, many accompanied by parents and
friends. They included the following:

From the undergraduate senior class—
William Elkins Browning, Daniel John
Carucci, David Edward Constine III,
Michael Francis Deighan, Eric Douglas
Frey, Homer Devon Graham III, William
Frazier Hill, Walker Porter Mayo III,
Matthew Kevin McCusty, Robert Marshall
Merriman, Howard Timothy Parks, John
Franklin Purdy Jr., Charles Hunt Shuford
Jr., Scott Edward Smith, Peter Bates
Taylor, Mark Grahame Walker, David
Walter West, and Thomas Amory
Wornom.

From the undergraduate junior class—
Peter Hans Benda, John Garland Pollard
Boatwright Jr., Paul Stephen Bourdon,
Douglas Luke Gaker, Max Victor a
McLaughlin Jr., Robert Stephen Palmer,
John Patrick Purcell, Joel Edward Segall,
Charles Hamilton Warner, Robert Harold
Willis Jr., and Brett Alan Wohler.

And finally, 1979 graduates initiated on
the basis of their final cumulative grades
last June— Edward Mark Adler, Sherrod
Gates Patterson, Kenneth Wayne Rose,
and Stephen Dalton Trigg.

In charge of all preparations for the
address, initiation, and the cocktail party
and banquet which ended a most busy day
were Phi Beta Kappa president Emory
Kimbrough Jr., professor of sociology at
W&L,; vice president John M. Evans,
professor of English; and secretary-
treasurer J. Brown Goehring, professor of
chemistry.

3

Faculty After Hours

Here’s a Host of Extracurricular Specialties That Seldom Show Up in the Catalogue

A specialist is someone (the cliché has it) who has learned
more and more about less and less—until now he knows
everything about nothing.

Washington and Lee’s specialists are a different breed. They
do know just about everything (worth knowing) in their fields.
We will be the first to tell you so, and we will be right.

But when we make a big deal about the broad-based liberal
arts as against narrowness, we know what we are talking about.

The last thing our faculty is are drudges, drones.

Our professors are specialists, certainly. If they quit writing
books and articles for the specialized professional journals, the
book publishers and the journals would be severely diminished,
if not exactly fold.

Our teachers, however, have interests other than the merely
“specialized.” They are general specialists. Or specialized
generalists. In W&L’s house of expertise, there are many
mansions indeed, and only some of them show up in the
Catalogue.

Where would we be if our biologists spent all their time
hunched over the microscope and none playing the flute, as
Cleve Hickman does when he isn't investigating osmosis in
kidneys or writing textbooks? If we lacked a Bill Pusey, who is
Mason Professor of German, founder of the East Asian Studies
Program, ex-Dean of The College, former Acting President of
the University—who also, in his capacity as Trailmaster-In-
Perpetuity (re-elected annually) of the Rockbridge Foxstick
Hiking Club, has assembled the largest private collection of
topographical maps in the Eastern Time Zone? (Not to mention
his authoritative knowledge of everything important that ever
pertained to baseball—actual baseball scholarship?) If we were
without an Uncas McThenia who teaches law but knows as much
as any engineer about water tables and geological faults? A
Chuck Phillips who teaches economics with objectivity—no
matter how difficult it may be these days—but then goes home
and fumes against the Democrats in Washington, a predilection
that probably explains his election to the Virginia State
Republican Central Committee? And a Tom Imeson, a
chemistry professor and head of the computer center who, as a
Democratic member of Lexington’s City Council, feels the same
toward all Republicans save Chuck Phillips?

What kind of college would we be if at least occasionally a
departmental faculty meeting were not to consist entirely of a
critical discussion of the weekend’s opera broadcast from the
Met, thus torpedoing adoption of some proposed form for
students and their advisors to fill out, which may be opera's
most notable contribution to life as we know it at W&L?

W&L is a place where the English department's
Renaissance-literature scholar, Ed Craun, who has been
elevated to an associate deanship, goes home at night not to
wade through reports of 21st-century demographic projections
or proceedings of cosmic conferences on how to increase deanly
efficiency—but rather to read, as he actually does to unwind,
medieval literature in the original Latin.

These, then, are the stories of seven of them, chosen almost

4

at random. These men and their eclectic interests (if you will
permit the understatement) are Washington and Lee’s strength
as a liberal arts institution. They are the reason we do not have
to be afraid that technocracy will go unchallenged—as long as
we and they exist, and we have them.

 

H. Robert Huntley
Justifying God's ways to man

 

Growing up in Wisconsin, one is inevitably introduced early
to that pale, pusillanimous potage the American brewing
industry, in an act of inspired imagination, has referred to as
“beer”: but which has rendered us the laughing stock of western
Europe, at least that part of it which produces, consumes and
values real beer.

I think I discovered fairly early on that the American
brewing industry had—over the generations—finally succeeded
in producing a beer designed essentially for people who don't
really like beer at all. That brief moment of adolescent
existential despair was superseded by a resolution to right this
cosmic wrong. But like most youthful idealism, it didn't really
generate any action until many years later—and then only for
reasons of thrift and therapy. As a teacher, one-third of my life is
given over to repairing the ravages to my self-esteem occasioned
by the other two-thirds of it spent in the classroom. Home-
brewing is, in this respect, a rare and undeserved piece of
therapeutic luck for me.

I have no wish to eulogize home-brewing as a way of life,
though it can easily become one. In addition to simple
economics (it’s only one-fourth as expensive as store beer), it can
be brewed to taste—and with an alcoholic content well beyond
that of its puny commercial counterpart. And for those ofa cliquish
disposition, there’s always the appeal of being able to gather about
oneself a select coterie of disciples as enthusiastic in the pursuit
of the art as any medieval necromancer or alchemist—and fully as
contemptuous of non-initiates.

All these things aside, home-brewing, again like necromancy
itself, is best begun simply, for there’s no going back, any more
than the adept ever dares return again to the simple rituals and
spells of the initiate, without fatal consequences to himself. So
in the beginning at least one should avoid costly alembics and
packaged condensed hops. They re about as needful as freeze-
dried newts eyes.

I started with a five-gallon plastic garbage can which one fills
half-full of hot tap water into which is poured a one-gallon can of
hop-flavored malt extract (light or dark: both obtainable at most
supermarkets) and five pounds of granulated sugar. Fill the
container to within a couple of inches of the top with cold water.
Dissolve into this by-now-doubtful-looking mixture one packet
of pre-dissolved dry yeast. The garbage can is then covered and
left in a semi-warm room to quicken the two fermentations
which will occur in two to four days. When carbonation has

 

 

ts

se
oe

il

 

 

Faculty After Hours

   

Louis W. Hodges and friends.

  

combs. Langstroth interspersed his knowledge of an apiary and of
the honeybee with sermonic discourses about the magnificence
of both the bee and the bee's Creator.

Biologically speaking, the honeybee is of the genus Apis and
the species mellifera. They are of the same family, but not the
same genre, as some closely related insects including wasps,
hornets, and yellow jackets. (What a pity and disservice that all
these stinging species are referred to popularly as “bees” from
which one gets “bee-sting’!)

Much like nomadic desert tribes, the “colony” of bees is
itself a biological organism. Individual bees and small numbers
of bees (under 5,000) cannot survive. Reproduction of
individuals depends upon the procreative function of the queen
which, having been fertilized by the drone, lays eggs which are
in turn nurtured by workers. Workers cannot procreate young

and the queen cannot feed them. (She cannot even feed herself.)

The drone, which also cannot feed itself, has one function
only—the impregnation of the queen, with approximately five
million sperm cells. He dies in copulation, and the queen
receives drones only for a two- or three-day period at the
beginning of her five-year life.

While workers are the products of fertilized eggs, drones are
produced from unfertilized eggs. Though the queen is not a
“virgin,” her male offspring are generated without benefit of
male sperm. The male honeybee thus never has a father but
always one grandfather: that, of course, on its mother’s side.
Similarly, the male honeybee never has a son, but may have a
grandson.

Reproduction of colonies occurs through “swarming.” At the
appropriate time in spring the queen and some of her attendant

6

Ah, yes, magnificent creatures, these bees.

 

workers, as many as 50,000 strong, leave the colony to establish
a home elsewhere—perhaps in a hollow tree or, if captured, in
an apiarist’s hive. Many swarms would perish if it were not for
provision of a suitable home by man, this reflecting a
dependence by Apis mellifera on Homo sapiens. When the
swarm leaves the colony it leaves behind several pupae which,
having been fed a special diet, will produce egg-laying queens.
The first of these pupae to hatch becomes the new queen of the
colony—and life goes on.

So it is that colony reproduction is as important to species
survival as individual reproduction. Within a colony, bees are
radically dependent on each other while being simultaneously
independent as a living organism. One is reminded of Saint
Paul’s image of the Christian community as consisting of many
organs with differing functions within a single organism, the
community itself.

Magnificent creatures, bees—historically, biologically,
intellectually, aesthetically, nutritionally and functionally.
Those, gentle reader, are some of the reasons that beekeeping
and the honeybee itself hold such an awful fascination.

In addition to all of that their product—correctly called the
“nectar of the gods’ —is absolutely delicious.

Lou Hodges earned his B.A. degree in history from Millsaps College,
then went on to study religion at Duke, where he received his Ph.D.
degree in Christian thought and ethics. He is an ordained Methodist
minister: he founded and is chairman of W&L's landmark program in the
professional ethics of journalists, lawyers and physicians (and in that
connection edits the annual volume Social Responsibility: Journalism,
Law, Medicine, published by the University); he is a sportsman of note,
and classical apiologist, which means that he read Virgil as preparation
for writing his article on bees for the alumni magazine.

Frank A. Parsons: Is he reading or looking?

 

 

Frank A. Parsons

For love of a jungle girl

 

Why does a middle-aged man covet a collection of so-called
“Golden Age” comic books, subscribe to all kinds of “fanzines”
and other periodicals specializing in comic memorabilia, and
occasionally represent himself as something of an authority on
comic-book history and comic art?

Well, I could say that comics have attained a certain status as
“literature” on some campuses, taught seriously by learned men
with strings of degrees after their names. But that hasn’t
happened at Washington and Lee, and isn’t likely to happen
either. (Nor would I want it to!)

And I could say that comic book collecting is now big
business, a source of major bucks for anyone who held on to his
or her treasure-trove of adolescent fantasy, or for those who
wheel and deal in the surging nostalgia marketplace.

But that’s only part of the reason this middle-aged youngster
hangs on to his comics and charts their appreciation in value
through ads in a weekly newspaper called “The Buyer's Guide”
or in comprehensive annual evaluations in an ever-thicker
volume called “The Overstreet Price Guide.”

The real reason is because I fell in love with Frances Gifford
when I was 12 years old, and I’ve never completely gotten over
it. Every Saturday for 15 weeks, I paid the Visulite Theater in
Staunton a dime for the privilege of watching Frances Gifford
burn at the stake, plunge over the precipice, sink in the
quicksand, dodge poisoned arrows, get clutched at by a man ina

gorilla suit, and wrestle alligators. She was Nyoka, the Jungle
Girl, and she wore the very first mini-skirt my eyes or anyone's
ever beheld. She was beautiful; and what’s more, she was
indestructible.

But her Saturday cliff-hanging eventually came to its final
chapter, and the next time Nyoka turned up in a movie serial, it
was some other gal whose costume favored Bermuda shorts
more than a mini-skirt. So I turned to drink (milkshakes) and
other dissipating indulgences (comic books).

Just about that time, one of the more alert publishers,
Fiction House Comics, decided that a good way to sell comics to
adolscent boys was to put girls on the cover and give them
visually prominent roles in many of the stories on the inside.
Fiction House artists even created a harem of heroines—

Jane Martin, the flight nurse turned secret agent in Wings
Comics; Sefiorita Rio, the Hollywood actress turned secret agent
in Fight Comics; Glory Forbes, the girl-next-door turned secret
agent in Rangers Comics. And, of course, there was Sheena,
Queen of the Jungle, in Jumbo Comics, and Camilla, Princess of
the Jungle, in (what else?) Jungle Comics, and there was even
Mysta of the Moon in Planet Comics. All of them were almost as
lovely as Frances Gifford and just as invulnerable to bullets and
spears and boa constrictors.

By the time I marched off to occupy Japan for a couple of
years I had accumulated a closet-full of comic books. By the
time I marched back, my grandmother had thrown the whole lot
in the trash. (I have never been able to bring myself to calculate
the current value of that collection. There were some four or
five hundred, each costing a dime then, and every one of them
today would be worth no less than $10 each—some many, many
times more.)

7

Faculty After Hours

Years, even decades, passed, and such money as I was able
to spend on newsstand purchases went for the kinds of books I
was too young to buy or too embarrassed to look at when I was
twelve. Then, almost by accident, I discovered in the mid-1960s
that a market in old comics existed among back-issue magazine
dealers. In every instance they were asking outrageous mark-
ups, even as high as a buck-and-a-half for a book that sold for a
dime in 1943. But the old nostalgia bug had bitten; memories of
Frances Gifford flooded back, along with some choice
recollections of Senorita Rio. What’s more, a psychiatrist by the
name of Dr. Frederic Wertham had written a book called
Seduction of the Innocent, and, according to him, I had
apparently missed a lot of “hidden significance” in much of the
art work. Nothing remained to do but to try to rebuild, in
somewhat truncated fashion, the old collection.

Concentrating on the old Fiction House titles, and with
some extraordinarily good luck, I gradually built up a skeleton of
my former holdings. Well, sorry to say, the old memory plays
tricks on you. Not all of the comic art I found so stimulating in
my adolescent fantasies stands the tests of time. But some has.
The good stuff is now known in the trade as “good girl art’ and
at the moment, books that feature the bosomy, leggy gals are
hot sellers. Many of the books I bought for a dollar or even less
I can resell for an average of $10 to $20. Some, especially those
mentioned in Dr. Wertham’s book, command prices of $50 and
more. If anybody out there in alumni-land has copies of
“Torchy, the Blonde Bombshell” in an attic, they re more
valuable than their weight in gold.

So, along with my comic books, I’m now out of my closet, so
to speak. No literary pretensions, no serious investment
interests (although I will make some money when I sell off the
rest of the collection). It’s been fun learning about the comic
collecting business—I’ve even given a semi-scholarly paper on it
to one of Lexington’s venerable discussion clubs.

But it all traces back to beautiful Frances Gifford and those
marvelous Saturdays at the Visulite, enduring endless Hoot
Gibsons and Ken Maynards and Tim McCoys, just to see a
second screening of Nyoka for the same dime.

I end with another confession. In all these years, I've never
read a comic book. I only looked at the pictures.

Frank Parsons is a W&L graduate (1954) who has been, over the years,
development director, public relations director, alumni magazine editor,
sports information chief, and assistant to the president for institutional
research (euphemism for all of the above). He is now assistant to the
president and general gray eminence, if a bald man can be thought of as
gray at all; he is everyone’s boss who works in University
communications, is in charge of coordinating all the planning that has
gone into the capital-construction portion of the current Development
Program, and is the one to whom everyone who is savvy about W&L
goes when they don’t know where else to go, which is efficient, because
most roads lead to his office at some point or another, and the only
question is whether you are smart enough to go there right off the bat or
whether you run all around W&L’s half-acre bureaucracy first. Frank
notes on his official data sheet that his favorite magazines include The
Heroine Addict, which is the journal not of Studio 54 but of The Comic
Heroine Fan Club, and that he is currently at work on a research article

tentatively entitled “UFOs and The Bible: What Really Happened on the
Road to Damascus?”

8

 

David B. Dickens
An ode to gonfalons and vexilla

 

Who doesn’t respond emotionally to the display of flags on
the Fourth of July? Who doesn’t enjoy a color guard, whether in
a parade or at a football game? Who has seen the massed flags of
the world before the United Nations building in New York
without registering, perhaps subconsciously, a reaction to their
color and variety and all they represent, individually and
collectively? Who has traveled abroad without noting the
greater use made of flags in other countries?

I arn someone who does respond and react in these
situations. My interest in studying and collecting flags (you may
call me a vexillologist) is intimately related to my interests in
history, art and design, and travel. I also find flags a source of
entertainment and a stimulus of the imagination.

The evolution of many flags, frequently accompanied by
amusing anecdotes or popular misconceptions, illustrates history
in colorful fashion. The American flag is a fine example. Betsy
Ross probably did not sew the first one. And the original
instructions by Congress concerning the flag’s design and color
arrangement were not precise; some early versions (as well as
the modern state flag of Hawaii) reflect this vagueness in their
red, white, and blue stripes. Originally, our national flag added
not only a new star but a new stripe as well upon the acquisition
of a new state. When the flag had 15 stars and 15 stripes and
began to look like a plate of spaghetti, an Act of Congress
restored the basic 13 stripes to the design.

The United States flag evolved, most likely, from the British
“Red Ensign” flown aboard ship. The British national flag is
likewise the product and record of history as the saltires
(diagonal crosses) of St. Andrew (Scotland) and St. Patrick
(Ireland) were integrated with the original cross of St. George
(England).

But flags are history by themselves as well. I am especially
proud of one 48-star United States flag I never fly. It is the gift
of a German friend of mine, a television news cameraman, who
covered the Hungarian Revolution in 1956. He and some other
Western reporters had to take refuge in the American Embassy
in Budapest. When they finally left to get their last film out of
the country, they requested and received an embassy flag to tie
to the hood of their car to identify and protect themselves from
sharpshooters and strafing Russian planes. My friend claims that
this flag saved their lives. Its honorable holes, dirt, and grease-
stains are themselves part of modern history.

The Swiss use flags to show something of family history. (A
note in passing: the Red Cross was originally organized in
Switzerland and adopted as its own emblem the Swiss flag in
reverse: a red cross on a white field; the Swiss national flag is a
white cross on a red field.) Very frequently a Swiss family flies
not only the national flag before its house, but also the cantonal
(state) flags, often splendid examples of flag heraldry, of the

s,,
me

David B. Dickens unfurls to the rising sun one of his treasured banners.

wr / é

cantons from which the parents in the family originally came.

Flags of the Scandinavian and Baltic areas reveal a common
historical and cultural heritage in their various “off-center” cross
designs or in the swallow-tailed form still associated with many
nautical flags and pennants. Ohio’s state flag, technically known
as a burgee,” is the only American flag in common use to
deviate from the usual rectangular form.

American state flags in general are dull and uninteresting.
Only Maryland possesses a genuinely “heraldic” flag. As for the
so-called “Confederate flag’”—what we see is really the battle
flag of the Confederate army, and even it should be square to be
authentic.

To many people flags are an unconscious part of their lives. I
have made them a conscious part of mine. And so it is that I
react with sad anguish to pictures of irate crowds burning flags,
be it the American flag in Tehran or the Iranian flag in
Lexington.

Dave Dickens shuffled off from Buffalo, where he earned his
undergraduate degree with majors in French as well as German, to
graduate study at George Washington University and Princeton, thence
(in 1960) to teach at W&L. He developed and still presides over one of
the University’s most successful Spring Term study-abroad programs, the
one in Beyreuth, and teaches courses in language and literature (German
romanticism, realism, naturalism). He is a Savoyard and philatelist as
well as vexillologist, which means that in addition to flags, he is a fan of
Gilbert and Sullivan and of postage stamps. (He designed, for instance,
the first-day cover of the 20-cent George C. Marshall stamp issued in
Lexington ten years ago or so.) An indication of the seriousness with
which he approaches his avocational pursuits came in a note we received
a few days after he submitted his article on flags: “Just detected a small
(but to me worrisome!) mistake . . . please strike the words
‘superimposed upon and’... . As a matter of fact, St. Andrew and St.
Patrick were beneath St. George, something which riled a lot of Scottish
and Irish feathers... .”

 

tty

 

   

 

Jefferson Davis Futch III
Papabilia

 

How do boyhood enthusiasms, which sometimes become
lifelong enthusiasms, ever begin? How so, especially, if the
enthusiast directs his fascinated curiosity towards Popes—any
and all Popes, eccentric ones, warlike ones, arty ones, immoral
ones, saintly ones. Perhaps some of this began in reaction to the
deserved but breathtaking acclaim given to Pius XII at mid-
century—and perhaps some, after hearing in college days tales
of highly questionable pontifical behavior. No matter. The bug
was caught, the obsession implanted, and the mania is now
incurable.

Of the dissolute teenaged Pope of the 10th century, the less
said the better (a lad elected for reasons far from sacred, and
supposedly assassinated, no one is sure, under circumstances
spectacular enough to fascinate readers of supermarket-tabloid
newspapers). Better to come to the more sedate quirkiness of
the mid-15th-century prelate who, being elected, chose to pass
up the usual names—Pius, Nicholas, Alexander, Eugene,
Martin, John—and reign as Handsome the First. Papa
Formosus. With difficulty he was dissuaded from going through
with this accolade to himself; the cardinals tactfully induced him
to settle for Paul II instead. (He did get his revenge, though—in
a series of thunderous and intimidating one-on-one interviews
forcing them to yield to his supreme authority and abandon any
hope for helping him rule the Church.)

In the next century came two Juliuses (only one of whom can
be discussed in polite company); the earlier Julius was an eager

9

 

ET

Jefferson Davis Futch III consults Bismarck and Saint Dominic S
gives his blessing from on high.

military chieftain, one of whose best tactical ploys was to attack a
Christian fortress on Christmas day, when the defenders were
sure their Holy Father would at least refrain from an assault on
the day of the Divine Nativity. They found out. To catch Julius
in papal robes was no easy matter; usually he was in armor and
boots, and anxious to ride into the fray. One of his successors
was engulfed in a military disaster that nearly cost him his life:
Clement VII was driven out of the Vatican in 1527 by a
murderous and looting horde—an unlikely coalition of
Protestant Germans and Catholic French, the former bringing
along a cord specifically reserved for hanging the Supreme
Pontiff. Clement found sanctuary in a Roman castle and the
Germans finally withdrew, cheated of their august prey.

Eventually this hectic pace slowed (not a century too soon),
and in the 18th century we find the highly civilized but highly
indiscreet Benedict XIV whose description of himself (“un buon
coglione’”) doesn’t bear repeating in most social situations; he
produced an even greater scandal by corresponding amicably
with Monsieur de Voltaire, who was anything but a hero to the
faithful at the time (or later). In the 19th century came the
formidable Pius IX, who so terrified Italy’s patriot-king Victor
Emmanuel II that the monarch refused to live in the ousted
Pope’s private quarters when the royal government expropriated
the old papal palace, all for fear of a pontifical hex on the stately
rooms. Then, in our time, one question: did Mussolini poison
Pius XI in 1939? If so, did the dictator do it with the help of his
mistress’s father? Cardinal Tisserant judged so. Let’s think about
that. Let’s bring back the Renaissance.

Dave Futch’s dissertation topic (Johns Hopkins) was Third Reich
diplomacy. Popes, however, are his passion—one of his passions. He
believes students can get historical dates and texts of treaties and such
dry stuff out of books, and his approach to teaching is to weave the
tapestry of context. He is, by enrollment figures, the most popular
teacher at Washington and Lee by far, a latter-day Dr. Crenshaw,

10

avio, patron saint of youth, as Pope John Paul II

 

 
 

perhaps—despite his insistence that his students actually wear neckties
in class. It is testimony to the spell he casts as a lecturer that they do it,
without mutiny. Dave Futch is many things, but Catholic is not among
them. He notes that if he wrote everything that might truly be told about
the Popes, “the alumni magazine would have to be mailed in a plain
brown wrapper.”

 

J. Brown Goehring
... H90 and music, music, music

 

Composing music has been an avocation of mine for as long
as I can remember. Mostly it has been a casual affair, rarely
extending beyond the confines of home. The results aren't
intricate intellectual works such as might appeal to a professional
musician, but rather personal outcroppings of melodies which I
have found amusing to pursue to a conclusion.

A close rapport with music is commonplace among
scientifically oriented people, it seems. Among chemists I have
known, a strikingly high percentage have played musical
instruments or sung in choruses or otherwise shown profound
interest in music, to whatever extent our amateur talents permit
us. As a special adaptation of this, my musical instincts favored
adventuring into my own realms of melodic invention on a
piano—as a simple and enjoyable way to relax.

My interest in writing of music appears to have originated in
a curious way—during a prolonged illness that occurred prior to
grammar-school days. There was much time on my hands and a
great urge to find some sort of personal entertainment. The
distinctive shapes of the various alphabet letters had fascinated
me but were becoming too familiar, when somehow I
“discovered” the strange shapes on sheet music. So I began to
practice writing them, too, drawing my own lined staves and
everything.

Consider the tremendous variety, aesthetically, in a round
open whole-note versus a tied run of eighth-notes; a jagged
quarter-rest versus the blankness of a whole-rest mark; the
outrageous swirl of a treble clef versus the shell-like sweep of a
base clef. Great fun for a sick-in-bed day! Then came the
astounding discovery that those strange delightful symbols
corresponded to musical tones and rhythms. The extension into
trying out patterns and then getting someone to show me how
they sounded on a piano was almost inevitable.

This childish sketching can scarcely be equated with the
composing of actual music, of course; but I believe this unusual
entry did profoundly influence the way I later conceptualized
the piano, when the time came to begin piano lessons.
Increasingly, just as the symbols of music intrigued me into
playing and writing for piano, so did the formulas and equations,
by which the elements and compounds of chemistry are
symbolized, capture an interest that led me to study chemistry
as a major academic pursuit. In both disciplines one finds an
elegant and non-verbal structure of abstract symbolism to
represent or translate into an aspect of perceived reality. It is
amazing what strange realities one can discover through the
manipulation of the symbols of these realities.

Actually, I have never really succeeded with attempts at
music written in the abstract, away from an instrument—a clear
indication of the very amateurish status of my art. My intuition
about placement of notes improves greatly whenever I work at a
piano, and almost everything I ultimately approved of was
achieved that way. The compositions usually originate out of
rather aimless improvising. Suddenly a pattern of sound may
strike my fancy, to the extent that it demands to be tried again,
with appropriate variations. Sometimes memory loses the idea,
forever. Othertimes, the motif becomes boring or unmanageable
when continued, and must be dumped. But now and then,
something will stick long enough to warrant retrieving from
memory some other day—or to be sketched out on paper in
cursory fashion—so as to try accomplishing something further
with it. Eventually, with a bit of luck, for those occasional ideas
that refuse to die, a coherent entity gradually evolves—perhaps
in a manner akin to the construction of poetry—and the result is
committed to paper and to a file marked “finis.”

For this off-and-on sort of play-work, elaborate creations just
do not occur. Instead, one finds rather light-hearted sorts of
pieces, many of them reflecting the simple harmonic structure
and old-fashioned rhythmical patterns of the early “operatta” era
of musical dramatics, which I have always unabashedly enjoyed
and favored: very much out of fashion today, of course. I’m a
real anachronist.

Unquestionably, the most intensive period of musical
composing occurred during the last year and a half of high
school, in creating a full-length musical play in collaboration
with a high-school colleague. I’ve always felt considerable
satisfaction in that production, which included some of the most
imaginative of my melodic constructions, combining the
techniques of instrumental, solo, and choral writing into a
dramatic framework. My grammar-school days included a

Faculty After Hours

esa

 

 

J. Brown Goehring picks out and scores a “rhapsody.”

variety of piano “rhapsodies” which were performed in recitals
and even one three-part Christmas carol which plagued my
sixth-grade class for several months! (The music teacher wanted
everyone to learn it, and the middle part had some awkward
note-sequences in it which no one could manage). College days
were reflected in some attempts at marches and waltzes (Sousa
and Strauss?), which sorely need the tonal breadth of
orchestration, a three-part fugue, and a miscellany of “songs” in
search of lyrics. With the arrival of progeny came a cluster of
“children’s pieces” to have fun romping to!

The hobby is especially delightful in that it can be enjoyed at
any time just for itself, without need for any long-term goal. And
every once in a while something appears, good enough to enjoy
repeatedly for the rest of one’s life.

Brown Goehring is a graduate of Davidson (where he was valedictorian
in 1956) who went on to earn his Ph.D. in inorganic chemistry at Chapel
Hill. His dissertation topic: “A Light-Scattering Investigation of
Aggregation in Aqueous Solutions of Sodium Molybdate,” from which
there is not much that is further removed than music.

11

 

Jane (NIC) and Roy (PIC) Steinheimer check out
the controls of their flying machine PICNIC II after

(below) stowing away their gear and lunch in the
hatch.

 

Roy L. Steinheimer Jr.
Jane, a dean, a flying machine

 

Perhaps I’m a reincarnated buzzard. The ease and grace with
which those big birds can work the thermals on a summer day or
ride the updrafts created by the wind blowing across the ridges
has always fascinated me. Indeed, this fascination led me to
qualify for a glider rating so I could join the buzzards in their
fun in the thermals and along the ridges. Soaring in a sailplane is
as close as I’ve been to feeling like a bird. Would hang-gliding
get me even closer? (Yes, Jane, I'll perish that thought.)

It all started some 25 years ago when Jane, tired of my
fantasizing about flying, said, “go do it.” I did. Since then, she
has been my enthusiastic partner in flying. Early on, Jane
dubbed me PIC (pilot-in-command). I began to call her NIC
(navigator-in-command). In her inimitable way, she put these
two acronyms together and this became the name of our plane—
PICNIC. It’s painted on the fuselage in her own distinctive script.

In many ways, it has been a “picnic.” Together we have
explored the awesome western mountains from the tip of Baja
California to Mt. McKinley in Alaska. We have flown the
Colorado River at low level along the Grand Canyon to Lake
Mead. We have taken a bird’s-eye look at both coasts of North
America from Newfoundland to Cozumel on the east side and

12

Faculty After Hours

 

from the Republic of Panama to Queen Charlotte Island, off the
coast of Alaska, on the west side. Even the north coast of South
America has been subjected to our scrutiny. Island hopping in
the Caribbean has been a particular joy for us and has carried us
as far out as Trinidad.

But flying is not always a “picnic” for me. A great deal of my
flying is done alone in the cockpit in connection with my job.
This sometimes involves using small landing strips which may or
may not be hard surfaced and which are often unattended.
Schedules must be kept. You can’t wait for a “bluebird day’;
weather becomes your adversary. You have to engage this
adversary—thunderstorms, turbulence, ice, rain, snow, fog, low
ceilings, and poor visibilities—but it must not be a foolhardy
encounter. You must appraise your skills and your equipment
and the predicted forces of weather before inviting the
encounter. Fate is lurking in those billowing clouds and, as
Ernest Gann put it, “fate is the hunter” when you fly. One can
feel lonely out there and even uneasy at times—but it is always
a challenge.

Roy Steinheimer holds degrees from Kansas (economics) and Michigan
(law). He practiced law for 10 years in New York City until 1950, then
returned to the University of Michigan to teach what he had practiced.
He established himself as a national authority on the Uniform
Commercial Code, which has now been generally adopted in the United
States. He also established himself as “something of a farmer’; but when
he is not in the office with his students and faculty, or on the range with
his sheep, he may be found in the sky with his wife and PICNIC. Roy
became dean of W&L’s law school in 1968 and teaches courses in
commercial transactions.

Fancy Dress ‘80

W&L Students Strolled Around the Monopoly Board to the Old-Time Tempo of Bob Crosby

 

 

 

 

You Are Cordially Invited
to attend the

73¢¢ FANCY DRESS BALL

 

 

 

MONOPOLY:
A STROLL AROUND THE BOARD

Bob Crosby and his Orchestra

Friday, February twenty-ninth
half past eight

Early-Fielding Student Center

Present invitation at door

featuring

in the

black tie

 

 

 

 

More than 1,500 couples took a stroll
around W&L’s own version of the
Monopoly game board at the student
body’s annual Fancy Dress Ball this
winter—once again underscoring its
reputation as the “outstanding collegiate
social event in the South,” in the words of
the New York Times some years ago—in
the whole country, in the words of this
year s partygoers.

Bob Crosby and His Orchestra, known
in olden times as the “Bobcats,” provided
the ballroom music this year. The students
decorated Evans Hall within an inch of its

life as usual and, as they did last year,
hung a huge illuminated sphere outside
the building—the Fancy Dress “Ball”
itself, which dropped at 8:30 p.m. sharp to
open the evening. The main dance floor—
under more ordinary circumstances the
dining hall—was transformed into Park
Place. And in keeping with its status as
one of Monopoly’s swankier properties, it
was a swirl of satin and blinking lights,
with a tremendous Monopoly-board
backdrop behind the Crosby band.

But that was just one room. From the
main entrance, representing “Go,” where

 

 

 

 

Clockwise from upper left: Crosby band swings
in Evans Dining Hall as revelry begins; an
unidentified beauty on States Avenue; love blooms
on the Boardwalk; a reproduction of the Fancy
Dress Ball invitation, designed to resemble a
Monopoly property deed.

13

Fancy Dress 80

 

 

 

 

 

the students and guests collected $200 in
special W&L Monopoly money, to a
student committee's office done up as
“Jail,” the entire student center complex
followed the theme in spectacular fashion.
The hallways represented such
properties as Oriental Avenue (filled with
dragons and Chinese lanterns) and
Reading Railroad (with such appropriate
W&L depots as Sweet Briar, Hollins,
Randolph-Macon, and Mary Baldwin).
Overhead was an authentic wooden
boardwalk, and just below, in the Cockpit,

were the original Drifters. Their most-
requested song? That old standard “Under
the Boardwalk,” of course.

Another popular act in the student
center was Mijias, a Brazilian jazz band
that is a frequent visitor to Washington
and Lee. Minas performed in Marvin
Gardens, decorated as a lush tropical
paradise with walls of yellow bamboo.
Down the hall were other attractions—a
magician, a photographer snapping formal
shots, a “casino room” with pinball
machines and games of chance, a

 

 

14

 

Above: The Park Place ballroom floor at midnight;
at top: undergraduate Fancy Dressers take a
break from dancing and so forth.

 

 

 

 

progressive jazz band—almost too much to
take in. And as always, some two thousand
revelers crowded into the main ballroom
at 1 a.m. to hear the closing strains of
“Dixie” and the “W&L Swing” before
running off to late-night parties and
champagne breakfasts that lasted ’til dawn
in many cases.

As usual, Fancy Dress formally got on
its way Thursday night, with the Brice
Street and Fat Ammons’ Bands, featuring
beach, soul, and rock music, out at
Zollman’s Pavillion, the student body’s very

favorite party place on Buffalo Creek,
about six miles out in the county. Saturday
was given over to private and fraternity
parties, and indoor activities were a
welcome respite, because outside,
Lexington was in the middle of its worst
snowstorm of the season. The snow didn't
let up until early Sunday morning, but
students refused to have their spirits
dampened. Sleds and skis were yanked out
of closets, and snowmen were built in the
streets of Lexington as Fancy Dress ended
on a jubilant—if rather frozen—note.

 

 

Clockwise from upper right: Bob Crosby in
action; “Fred” and “Ginger” revisited as touch
dancing continues its comeback; a couple on
Oriental Avenue, with appropriate background;
searchlight beckons students and guests to the
Ball throughout the night; finally, the morning
after—and a couple of lonely sentinels stand
guard at Zollman’s Pavillion as snow falls and

falls.

15

W,, Cazett
& AZETLE

Wornom Memorial Award Established for Distinguished Literary Criticism

A new prize in English, the Jean
Amory Wornom Award for Distinguished
Critical Writing, has been established in
the Department of English and will be
granted this spring for the first time.

The award, endowed by a gift from I.
Leake Wornom Jr., '50L, in memory of his
wife, is to be given annually to the student
who has submitted “what is judged to be
the best piece of discursive or critical
writing—essay, term paper or thesis—in
an English course during the year.” Judges
for the prize will be faculty members in
the English department.

Mrs. Wornom, who died in 1978, was a
generous friend of Washington and Lee,
and the only member of the immediate
family not to have attended W&L. Her
husband is a Newport News attorney. One
of their sons, Isaac L. Wornom III, is a
1977 graduate, and the other son, Thomas
Amory Wornon,, is a senior. Both sons
majored in English and held departmental
scholarships for outstanding work—and
both, like their father, were elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa.

 

 

The peripatetic Mr. Miley

W&L’s exhibition of 19th- and early-
20th-century photographs by “General
Lee’s photographer —“Michael Miley:
American Photographer and Pioneer in
Color’—will be shown in Charlottesville at
Fidelity American Bank in May and in
Richmond at Central National Bank in
June.

The display was developed in a larger
version initially for W&L’s duPont Gallery
by Mary Elizabeth Warren under the
direction of Dr. Pamela Hemenway
Simpson of the art department (see last
month’s alumni magazine).

The idea to have the W&L exhibition
travel with support from banks originated
with Claude Harrison, a 1934 graduate of
the University, whose public relations firm
counts Roanoke’s Colonial American Bank
among its clients. At Harrison’s initiative,
Colonial American contracted with Warren
to select a bank-lobby-size selection from
the nearly 200 Miley photographs that had
been included in the January show at

16

WA&L. The traveling exhibition opened
March 1 in Roanoke, and it was extended
there for six weeks (from the originally
scheduled month) because of its popularity
there. Subsequently, the other banks
contracted to bring the show—and Miley's
actual six-foot-long wooden view camera—
to their lobbies for a month each, too.

 

Dr. Edgar W. Spencer

        

iz

et aT A
Dr. John M. Evans

 

 

The faculty...

Edgar W. Spencer, head of the geology
department, is the recipient of a grant
from the American Chemical Society's

Petroleum Research Fund to prepare
detailed geological cross-sections in the
Blue Ridge Mountains near Lexington to
assist in exploring for oil.

With the help of W&L geology
students, Spencer will carry out the
research principally over the next two
summers.

Oil firms have begun to show an
interest in exploration in western Virginia,
and have been negotiating to purchase
mineral rights for as much as $5 an acre in
the past few years.

Spencer is a 1953 W&L graduate who
returned to teach at the University after he
received his Ph.D. from Columbia in
1957. He is the author of a number of
college-level geology textbooks, including
Introduction to the Structure of the Earth
(McGraw Hill), now in its second edition.

John M. Evans, professor of English,
has been awarded a research grant from
the Maurice L. Mednick Memorial Fund,
which is administered by the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges.

Evans, who teaches courses on
Augustan and later 18th-century English
literature, will use the grant this summer
for study of the works of John Milton and
Alexander Pope at Yale University and at
the Library of Congress. He will also be
on a sabbatical leave-of-absence during the
Winter Term in 1981 to continue the
projects.

The Mednick Memorial was created in
1967 in honor of a young Norfolk
industrialist who died from accidental
causes and whose family and business
associates wished to perpetuate his name
by establishing a scholarship fund to
emphasize his interest in higher education.

Lt. Col. Thomas B. Vaughn, head of
the military science department at W&L
since last fall, has been selected to attend
the U.S. Army Senior Service College in
1981-82. The college prepares carefully
chosen senior officers for high-level
command and staff duties, and almost all
the Army’s top leaders come out of the
service college.

Pamela Hemenway Simpson, associate

art history professor, delivered a lecture
on the topic “Beauty, Utility and
Economy: The Use of Architectural Books
in the 19th Century” at a symposium on
architectural history at the University of
Virginia this winter. She drew
considerably on the lending records of
Lexington’s Franklin Society Library—
now incorporated in the W&L library—for
her research.

 

 

... the students...

A team of W&L business
administration majors came in second
among 21 teams in the 1980 Intercollegiate
Business Games, a rigorous computer-
simulated management competition
sponsored by Emory University in Atlanta.

Each team was required to make a
series of complex decisions, playing against
the computer, which would specify
changing business conditions in ways no
more predictable than they are in the real
world. Teams were challenged to restore
the make-believe company, which was
ailing, to financial health.

Members of the W&L team, all
seniors, were Robert M. Merriman Jr. of
Spencer, Va., Raymond C. Nugent of
Virginia Beach, Mark G. Walker of
Bethesda, Md., and David W. West of
Washington, D.C. Dr. Joseph Goldsten,
associate business administration
professor, was team advisor.

Robert Harold Willis Jr., a rising
senior from St. Petersburg, Fla., has been
elected president of the student body for
1980-81, which will mark his third year of
service on the Student Executive
Committee. A double major in English
and mathematics, Willis is also a dormitory
counselor, a state chairman for the 1980
Mock Republican Convention, and a
member of both Phi Beta Kappa and
Omicron Delta Kappa.

Also elected to fill the student body’s
“Big Three” positions were A. William
Mackie, a rising senior from Chevy Chase,
Md., vice president, and Franklin H.
White, a rising junior from Arlington, Va.,
secretary.

Teams of legal debaters from the
School of Law continue to capture honors
in regional competition.

One team took first-place honors in the
southeast in the annual Philip C. Jessup

International Moot Court Competition by
defeating teams representing North
Carolina, South Carolina, Duke and
Mercer. The team members— Alan L.
Button, Margaret Campbell, Tracy Savage
(who was named best individual oralist in
the tournament), Nancy Spritzer and
Melissa Warner (second-best oralist), all
second-year students—will go on later in
the spring to the national finals in
Washington.

And another team of second-year
students—W. Jeffrey Edwards, James H.
Neale and Carrie Gilette Otey—took
second place in the annual William &
Mary Moot Court Competition, against
teams from other law schools in Virginia
and North Carolina. The W&L team won
the award for best brief in the meet, and
Otey was named best oralist. Both
teams had third-year student coaches—
Leonard K. Welsh for the international
moot court competition and Barbara
Rezner for the William & Mary
tournament. Prof. Samuel W. Calhoun of
the law faculty was the advisor to both
teams.

A W&L senior, Mark James Richard of
Franklin, Va., was one of 10 student
writers from across the country chosen for
high honors in a national fiction
competition for college students sponsored
by Xerox Corp. and Learning In Focus
Inc., with cooperation from Atlantic
Monthly. Richard’s short story, “Twenty-
One Days Back,” was selected from among
more than 200 entries from as many
colleges and universities.

The 12-member W&L Brass Ensemble
presented concerts in three central Florida
cities— Ocala, Lakeland and Sarasota—in
March. The group played music ranging in
style from Handel to the Beatles; one of its
concert selections was Divertissement, a
composition written especially for it by
Prof. Robert Stewart, head of the music
division at W&L and director of the
ensemble.

 

 

... the visitors

U.S. Sen. George S. McGovern (D-
S.D.), 1972 Democratic nominee for
President, spoke at W&L in late February
on his view of American foreign policy into
the 1980s, as part of the student body’s
“Contact” speaker series.

William Meredith, poetry consultant to
the Library of Congress, spent a week on
campus in March under the Woodrow
Wilson Visiting Fellows program.
Meredith presented a series of readings
from his own works, taught classes in
British and American literature and in
creative writing, and met more informally
with students and teachers throughout the
week, in the typical pattern of visitors
under the Wilson program, in which
Washington and Lee has participated since
its inception seven years ago.

Author and historian John Toland,
whose books include The Rising Sun and
The Last 100 Days, spoke on the decline
and fall of the Japanese empire during the

 

Poet William Meredith (right) participates in seminar conducted by WéL’s award-winning poet
Dabney Stuart.

17

Justice James G. Exum Jr. makes a point at
legal ethics session.

years 1936 to 1945, under the sponsorship
of the history department and the East
Asian Studies program.

North Carolina State Supreme Court
Justice James G. Exum Jr. was at
Washington and Lee in late March for a
public lecture and less formal discussions
with W&L students and with alumni who
are practicing lawyers as part of the
University’s legal ethics program. His
speech topic was “A Lawyer's Response to
his Criminal Client’s Perjury.”

Law alumni who also took part in the
workshop were Rudolph Bumgardner III,
’66L, from Staunton, Va.; Virginia B.

Garrison, "75L, also from Staunton; Jack E.

Greer, 51L, from Norfolk, Va.; Walter L.
Hannah, ’50L, from Greensboro, N.C.;
David T. Johnson, ’68, from Pensacola,
Fla.; and Conway H. Sheild III, ‘64, ‘67L,
from Newport News, Va.

     

i 7 + . ‘ :
ae Z

 

 

Summer archaeology program

W&L’s anthropology department will
sponsor a field school in historical
archaeology this summer, giving
participants an opportunity to explore

patterns of early settlements of Rockbridge

County.

In session from mid-June through mid-

August, with the exception of the week of
July 6, the program is an outgrowth of the
University’s series of spring and summer

18

excavations at Liberty Hall, W&L’s 18th-
century predecessor institution.

Cabin sites and other locations of
interest have already been pinpointed,
most in the House Mountain region,
according to associate anthropology
professor John M. McDaniel, who directs
the field school.

Participation in the program requires
no previous exposure to historic
archaeology, and is open to interested
adults as well as high school and college
students.

 

 

‘Black Emphasis Week’
brings lectures, concerts

W&L’s ninth annual “Black Emphasis
Week” last month offered a series of
lectures and concerts designed to bring the
community's attention to the
accomplishments and problems of blacks in
America today. Among the guests for the
event, sponsored by the Student
Association for Black Unity, were:

—Ossie Davis, actor and playwright,
who discussed the role of blacks in the arts
today and read from several of his works,
including the award-winning play Purlie
Victorious;

—Vernon Lutabu Turner, poet and

=

lecturer, with an address on “Black
Literature in the 1980s—The Shape of
Things to Come’ ;

—William Syphax, president of Syphax
Enterprises, who led a discussion on the
current status of minority business
development;

—The Ambassadors for Christ, a
renowned gospel concert ensemble from
Richmond.

Also on hand during the week was
Benjamin Hooks, executive director of the
NAACP since 1977. Hooks delivered the
keynote address at the annual southern
regional conference of the Black American
Law Students Association, for which
W&L’s law school was host this year.

 

 

Production of Pippin
is pure magic

Steve Williford—a professional director
and choreographer from North Carolina on
his way to New York—was the guest of
W&L’s drama division for six weeks during
the Winter Term, supervising rehearsals
for the musical Pippin at the Troubadour
Theatre.

And enjoying it every step of the way.

Lexington’s quiet streets, the challenge
of staging intricate dances on the rather

     

Benjamin Hooks (right) is greeted by a friend after his BALSA speech.

un-elaborate Troubadour stage, the sense
of cooperation that pervades W&L’s small-
but-ambitious drama department—“I
couldn't be happier,” Williford said. Two
weeks before opening night, he was
confident enough to say “this is one of the
best rehearsed college shows I’ve ever
seen.

Quite a compliment, especially when
you realize this director’s experience with
this particular show. Pippin, with music
and lyrics by Stephen Schwartz and a book
by Roger Hirson, was one of a series of
major Schwartz successes on Broadway in
the past decade (for example, Godspell and
The Magic Show). Williford has staged and
acted in Pippin twice before—as a student
at East Carolina State, and last summer for
several weeks at the Haymarket Theatre in
Richmond.

He may have been the youngest non-
student director ever to open a show in the
W&L theatre, but the results were pure
magic to the audiences. Full houses were
the rule at each performance, people
standing in the rear of the auditorium if
nothing else was available. “The response
has been incredible,” the student box-
office manager said. “I guess nearly a
thousand people have jammed into this
building for our six performances.”

Actually a play-within-a-play, Pippin
deals with a group of actors headed by the
“Leading Player” (portrayed on the Great
White Way by Ben Vereen, in Lexington
by David J. Sorrells). The players enlist a
young man (played by senior J. Arthur
Dunnam III) to act the role of Pippin, son
of the medieval emperor Charlemagne, in
order to teach him about life. Their
progress is wildly funny, vaguely
reminiscent of Voltaire’s Candide, as the
naive Pippin is exposed to war and
revolution, sex and domestic squabbles.
Finally, he abandons the players’
philosophy that life can only have
“meaning” through a “fiery grand finale”
(death, of course), and is left to “tend his
own garden, to borrow a phrase from the
maitre.

The original production of Pippin
played for more than five years in New
York, primarily due to the imaginative
staging and dancing techniques of original
director Bob Fosse. The energetic W&L
company adopted the original
choreography almost completely, romping
through drama professor Thomas Ziegler’s
circus-carnival set for two hours with no
diminution of energy.

—M.G.C.

 

Clockwise from above: Director Williford; uneasy
the head that wears the crown; principals Sorrells
and Dunnam; an exhilarating fiery finish.

 

Chapter News

     

Besa

¥

CLEVELAND-— Seated: Charles White, ’72; Jack Hattendorf, 59; Hal Malzeke, '83; P. Brasfie

 

a

Id, ’56; Jayne Cameron; R. Donahey, 83; Richard Grazier, 66;

D. Donahey, ’81. Standing: James Dickinson, ’70; Bill Berrington, 60; Mike Collier, ’83; Harry Mazere, 54; Dr. John Battle, 34; Murray Tillington, ’83;
Ed Meyers, ’61; James Bonebrake, ’54; and Howard Collier, ’°79. DENVER—Top right: Louis Clinton, ’40; Trustee E. Marshall Nuckols, ’33, '35L, and
Trustee Edgar Shannon Jr., ’39, talk with Denver guests.

 

4

 

FLORIDA—Left: Among the guests of the trustees are Judge Hugh Glickstein, 53

   
  

   

 

55L, of W

>
>

est Palm Beach; Mrs. Dyer; Robert

   
  

 

C. Dyer, ’34, of Chicago;

H. Taylor Jones, ’34L, and Mrs. Jones. Right: Also present were Mrs. Clarke, Trustee T. Hal Clarke, ’38, of Atlanta; C. Edward Blair, ’40, of Longboat

Key, Fla., and Mrs. Blair.

CLEVELAND. A holiday sports
luncheon was held Dec. 28, 1979, at the
Cleveland Athletic Club, providing the
usual good fellowship among W&L
alumni, current students and prospective
students. The enthusiastic group enjoyed
cocktails and lunch, after several of the
guests had participated in handball, squash
and other sport events. The arrangements
were made by W. R. (Bill) Berrington Jr.,
60, general manager of the Cleveland
Athletic Club.

DENVER. Alumni gathered for a gala
evening of cocktails and dinner at the
Denver Country Club on January 11.
Herbert M. Weed, '42, and Louis L.
Clinton Jr., ‘40, presided over the
evening's events, highlighted by an
address from the Rector of W&L’s Board

20

of Trustees, E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., ’33,
°35L. Two other board members, F. Fox
Benton Jr., 60, and Edgar F. Shannon Jr.,
°39, attended the meeting and made brief
observations on the University’s progress.
Mrs. Nuckols and Mrs. Benton
accompanied their husbands. At the
conclusion of the meeting, Director of
Development Farris Hotchkiss, ’58,
thanked the alumni for their enthusiastic
response and expressed the University’s
hope that an alumni chapter would be
formed in Denver in the near future.

PALMETTO. On January 15, the
Palmetto Chapter of W&L alumni had as
their special guest William M. Hartog,
director of admissions. John Folsom, '73,
made the arrangements for Hartog and
area alumni admissions representatives to

meet with a large number of applicants
and interested students from local schools.
Parents of the prospective students were
invited to meet at the Summit Club of the
Bankers Trust Tower to gain some first-
hand information about Washington and
Lee and its current admissions process.

JACKSONVILLE. Members and their
guests met for cocktails on January 19 to plan
activities for the 1980s. The setting was
the Florida Yacht Club, and the occasion
was Robert E. Lee’s birthday. Jack Mc-
Cormack, ’50, an alumni director and the
lone KA present, offered a toast to Lee.
Hal Catlin, "72, made the arrangements.

FLORIDA. The University’s Board of
Trustees hosted a gala reception and
dinner for approximately 200 alumni and

 

[wa ees

 

 

z

FLORIDA— Left: Among the guests at the Innisbrook Club were Edgar M. Boyd, ’42, an alumni director from Baltimore; Mrs. Boyd; a guest; Mrs. Swinarton,

 

and Trustee Robert W. Swinarton, ’50, of New York City. PHILADELPHIA—Right: Enjoying themselves are Gary Hiers, ’38; Cal de Coligny Jr., 61;

and Gary Seldomridge, ’76.

   

— ~~ ges SS saat

SHREVEP

BS

ORT—Left: Gathered for the Northwest Louisiana meeting are Mrs. John McDaniel; G. Archer Frierson II, ’73; Mrs. Frierson; a

 

 

6

nd M. Alton

Evans Jr., ‘53. CHARLOTTE— Right: At mid-winter cocktail buffet are Mrs. John Yarbrough, Steve (Peaches) Hannon, ’71; Lat Purser, 73, and John

Yarbrough, ’28.

guests at The Innisbrook Club in Tarpon
Springs on February 8, in conjunction with
their regular winter business meeting. The
lively evening attracted alumni from across
the state and beyond. E. Marshall Nuckols
Jr., 33, °35L, Rector of the W&L board,
welcomed the guests with University
President Robert E. R. Huntley. And in a
departure from the traditional after-dinner
program, board members mingled freely
throughout the banquet hall, visiting
alumni at their tables.

PHILADELPHIA. The attendance at the
luncheon meeting on January 30 was one
of the largest in recent history. The affair
was held at The Racquet Club in
downtown Philadelphia through the
arrangements of Wick Hollingshead, ’61.
President Ned Coslett III, 70, presided

over the meeting, introducing new
development staff associate Cal de Coligny
Jr., ‘61, as well as the speaker for the day,
Dr. Tom Imeson, ’61, professor of
chemistry and director of the W&L
computer center. Imeson’s remarks about
present campus life and activities were
enthusiastically received and followed by a
question-and-answer period. Coslett
closed the meeting by encouraging recent
graduates in attendance to support the
chapter's efforts in the recruitment of
students. Also in attendance at the
meeting was William C. (Bill) Washburn,
‘40, alumni secretary.

CHARLOTTE. Area alumni gathered for
a mid-winter cocktail buffet at the Myers
Park Country Club on February 15.
Chapter president Lat Purser, "73, made

the arrangements for the meeting. The
relaxed affair gave many alumni an
opportunity to catch up on current campus
events, and speak with University
representatives Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins,
68, assistant alumni secretary, and Mrs.
Atkins. The members were particularly
happy to have as guests John Yarbrough,
28, and Mrs. Yarbrough.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. An
interesting program was held February 20
at the Shreveport Club featuring Dr. John
McDaniel, ’64, associate professor of
anthropology and director of the Liberty
Hall excavations at Washington and Lee.
John M. Madison, ’64, chapter president,
chaired the meeting and introduced the
McDaniels. In the short business session,
Archer Frierson II, 73, was unanimously

21

Chapter News

eo
i.

c ic Fs

   

ym

 

and Stephen K. Shepherd, ’68.

elected president for the upcoming term.
Bill Washburn, 40, alumni secretary, was
also present and outlined plans for the
spring anniversary class reunions being
held on the same weekend as the 1980
Mock Republican Convention.

BLUE RIDGE. W&L alumni of the Blue
Ridge Chapter gathered on February 21 to
celebrate George Washington’s birthday at
the Greencroft Club near Charlottesville.
After a cocktail hour and dinner, chapter
president Dan Winter, 69, welcomed
everyone. He remarked on the positive
efforts of the local AAP group and
announced some future chapter plans.
Assistant alumni secretary Buddy Atkins,
68, introduced the evening's speaker, Dr.
Holt Merchant, 61. Dr. Merchant,
assistant professor of history at W&L,

22

     
  

BLUE RIDGE—Left: Celebrating George Washington's birthday i
LITTLE ROCK—Right: Before luncheon are E. Austin McCaskill]

 
    

FORT SMITH—Left: Present for dinner were Robert N. Cutting, °46; A. Payne Morrow, ‘29; S. Birnie Harper, 66; and Collier Wenderoth, °45.
LITTLE ROCK—Right: Present for lunch are Sandra DeBoer, ‘77L;

delivered a short presentation on George
Washington’s role as an early patron of
American education. Director of
Development Farris Hotchkiss concluded
the evening with a very brief report on the
progress of the Phase II Development
Program. Other guests from the
University included Mrs. Merchant and
Mrs. Atkins as well as development
associate John Duckworth and Mrs.
Duckworth.

FORT SMITH. Arkansas alumni of the
Fort Smith and Fayetteville areas joined
for dinner on February 21 at The Town
Club in Fort Smith. Arrangements were
made by S. Birnie Harper, ’66. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn, ‘40, attended the
meeting and presented a color slide-show
of the building progress on the campus.

n Charlottesville are Tom Bruce, 40; Corwith Davis, ‘71; Mrs. Bruce, and Tim Echols, ’41.
r.,’42; E. Austin McCaskill III, ’72; Roddy J. McCaskill, °75; Howard T. Shepherd, '40;

E. Sidney Vaughn Jr., 38; Everett

 

Tucker III, ’72; and Scott T. Vaughn, ’76L.

Also in attendance was Milburn Noell, 51,
°54L, development associate from
Memphis, Tenn. The program was
received with enthusiasm and plans were
made to hold similar functions soon.

LITTLE ROCK. A luncheon was held
February 22 at the Little Rock Country
Club, in honor of Washington’s birthday.
Bill Washburn, 40, alumni secretary, and
Milburn Noell, 51, 54L, development
associate, were present. Each made brief
reports concerning the University's
development programs. The alumni were
pleased to have Gus Ottenheimer of the
1917 law class in attendance.
Arrangements were handled by chapter
president Mark Grobmyer, 72, and
secretary-treasurer Everett Tucker III,
72.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all occasions—
Christmas, birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory
of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR BOSTON ROCKER
Black lacquer with cherry arms All black lacquer
$95.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va. $80.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight charges and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

 

1928

GERALD F. Horing, a retired employee with Ford
Motor Co., lives in Alexandria, Va., where he is a
member of the board of directors of the Alexandria
Red Cross and a member of the Alexandria Hospi-
tal Corp.

1931

J. ROBERT MARTIN reached senior status as a fed-
eral judge in November 1979. An editorial in The
Greenville News praised the judge and stated “the
chief judge of the South Carolina district has done
as much as any person to maintain a stable society
in this state during years of social upheaval.” Judge
Martin presided over most of the legal proceedings
which resulted in desegregation of the public
school systems in South Carolina during the 1960s
and early 1970s.

JAMES L. RIMLER now lives in Longboat Key,
Fla., where he is serving on the planning and
zoning board. He still finds time for golfing, tra-
veling and a bit of tennis.

1932

E\VERETT CROSS, a veteran golfer and now a resi-
dent of Sun City, Ariz., just realized the golfer’s
dream with a hole-in-one on the sixth hole at Wil-
lowbrooks.

1933

J. FRED Cook has retired from the hardware busi-
ness and teaching profession. He is now a broker
with Cook Land Co. in Waynesboro, Va.

C. E. THOMAS, a retired professor emeritus of
engineering at Wilkes College in Wilkes-Barre,
Pa., is now living in Dallas, Texas.

1935
JOHN E. FRIEND, after 30 years with the Federal
Reserve Bank in Richmond, Va., has retired and
lives in Brandermill, a residential development in
Midlothian, Va. He enjoys golf several days a week.

WILLIAM A. GARRETT retired as president of
Southern Finance Corp., a real estate and mort-
gage banking firm in Augusta, Ga., but remains
with the company as chairman of the board.

1936

ARTHUR HAUCK is semi-retired and lives in Lutz,
Fla., and South Bristol, Maine. He does some free
lance engineering consulting.

1938

FRANK JONES JR. is involved in many community
activities. He is president of the Rotary Club for
Kelmarnock-Irvington-White Stone, Va.; chair-
man of the sub-division committee for Lancaster
County; director of the Foundation for Historic

23

Class Notes

Christ Church; and chairman of board of deacons
of Campbell Presbyterian Church in Weens, Va.

1939

JAMEs E.. QUISENBERRY of Roanoke, Va., has seen
more than 33 years in military and civil service. In
1974 he retired from the Veterans Administration
regional office in Roanoke.

1940

THOMAS H. MCCUTCHEON of Waban, Mass., is a
retired Navy commander. Since graduation Mc-
Cutcheon has held executive positions with River-
side Press Co., Schraft Candy Co., Rand McNally,
Colonial Press, and New England Confectionery
Co. He presently is with Lee Associates, a man-
agement consultant firm. He and his wife have
three sons and two grandchildren.

Epwarb G. RoFF lives in San Diego where he has
served as administrator for the city school system
for 22 years. Roff served with the Marine Corps in
World War II and left the service as a lieutenant
colonel in 1955.

JupcE J. C. SNrpow Jr. has been judge for the
27th Judicial District for the state of Virginia since
July 1974. He lives in Christiansburg, Va.

1941

LuPTON AVERY is director of advertising and public
relations for the Chattanooga (Tenn.) Glass Co.
The Averys have four sons.

1942

THOMAS ALONZO CLARK was invested as United
States Circuit Judge for the 5th Circuit in Tampa,
Fla., on Nov. 16, 1979. The Hillsborough County
Bar Association hosted a reception in honor of
Judge Clark. During World War II, Clark served
with the U.S. Navy, and upon discharge in 1946
attended the University of Georgia Law School.
He practiced in Bainbridge, Ga., where he served
as a state legislator and later as prosecuting attor-
ney. He moved to Tampa in 1957. Clark was amem-
ber of the firm of Carlton, Fields, Ward, Emmanuel,
Smith & Cutler until his nomination by President
Carter to the judgeship. He is a member of the
American College of Trial Lawyers and is currently
a member of the Florida Bar Committee on Judicial
Selection and Tenure. Clark is very active in civic
groups and organizations including the Florida
Association for Retarded Citizens, and the Hills-
borough-Manatee Mental Health Association.

1943

C. B. (NEAL) MYERS, a senior partner in the ac-
counting firm of Peterson, Myers, Craig, Crews,
Brandon & Mann, has been named chairman of
the board of the Sun First National Bank of Polk
County in Lake Wales, Fla. Myers is also director
of Sun Banks of Florida Inc. and Florida Power

24

 

R. E. Hodges, ’50

Corp. The parent company, Sun Banks of Florida
Inc., is the state’s third largest bank holding com-

pany.

1945

E. DEAN FINNEY, a veteran Vermont radio station
executive, was recently named vice president and
general manager of radio station WHBG in Harri-
sonburg, Va. Finney, a native of Greenwich,
Conn., has owned and managed stations in St.
Johnsbury and Newport, Vt., for the past 30 years.
He has been active in Vermont business, profes-
sional and civic affairs and had served as school
board chairman, hospital president, vice chairman
of the state board of education, and a trustee of the
Vermont state colleges.

1949

MICHAEL B. BoypDa is employed by Fireman's
Fund Insurance Co. in Kansas City, Mo.

1950

P. JAMES FAHEY became champion of the Castle-
bar Handball Tournament which was held in Ire-
land in February. Fahey, a noted football player
while at Washington and Lee, is now president of
Creasy Co., a wholesale grocery firm in Hagers-
town, Md.

RICHARD E. HopDGESs was awarded the 1979 Paul
M. Lund Award for voluntary public service by
the Public Relations Society of America at their
annual national conference on Nov. 13, 1979, in
St. Louis. The award recognized his voluntary.
participation in a great variety of civic, charitable,
professional and educational affairs. Hodges is
chairman of the board of Liller Neal Weltin Inc.,
an advertising and public relations firm in Atlanta.
He joined the firm in 1951 following graduation
from Emory University and a short stint as a re-
porter for the Atlanta Constitution.

Dr. ROBERT V. JOEL is the attending pathologist
for eight hospitals in Jacksonville, Fla. He and his
wife, the former Sharon Werner of New Rochelle,
N.Y., are the parents of three children.

1951

JOHN J. FLoop has been named assistant vice
president of the New Hampshire Insurance Co. in
Manchester. He joined the firm in 1955 and has
served the company and its subsidiaries in several
legal management positions.

NORFLEET TURNER is now chairman of the board
of Data Communications Corporation, a rapidly
growing information processing firm, which he
formed in Memphis in 1969. The company has 275
employees in the U.S., and maintains offices in
Memphis, New York, Philadelphia, and Boston. It
currently has 36 employees in Great Britain and is
negotiating with the French government to open a

branch in Paris. Prior to forming DCC Turner was
an officer with the First National Bank for 18 years.

1952

H. MELVILLE HICckKs JR., formerly with the firm of
Coogan, Mannix & Hicks in White Plains, N.Y.,
has entered private law practice with offices on
Park Avenue in New York City.

1953
MARRIAGE: J. KEITH NELSON and Jo Ann Shi-
derly on Jan. 19, 1980, in Wichita Falls, Texas.
Nelson is judge for the 78th Judicial District in
Wichita Falls.

BIRTH: JUDGE and Mrs. H. EMORY WIDENER
Jr., a son, Emory, born Nov. 8, 1979. Judge
Widener sits on the U.S. District Court of Appeals
and lives in Bristol, Va.

Hayes C. MCCLERKIN, an attorney in Texarkana,
Ark., has been appointed by Gov. Bill Clinton to
the Arkansas Oil and Gas Commission.

REV. JOHN B. WHEELER lives in Edgewater, Md.,
where he teaches at a childhood intervention cen-
ter and serves as interim priest in several Episcopal
churches. His primary duties are carried out at St.
Anne’s Parish in Annapolis.

1954

JUDGE FRANK M. WHITING retired in February
1980 from the Civil Aeronautics Board. He lives in
Fairfax, Va.

1955

WILLIAM H. BARTSCH travels extensively from
the International Labor Office headquarters in
Switzerland. He has been introducing special labor
programs to provide employment and income to
the poor, especially in Asian and African countries.
A man of many careers, Bartsch also expects to
complete a new book in 1980 on the history of the
U.S. fighter pilots in the Philippine campaign of
1941-42.

1956

FORREST LEE MOSES JR., an artist and resident of
Santa Fe, was featured in an article of the New
York Times magazine last February. The article
dealt with his ideas on modernizing Pueblo archi-
tecture and furnishings.

1957

CHARLES F. DAVIS, an executive with the Con-
tinental Bank in Chicago, continues to be involved
with the bank’s Asian activities. In August 1979,
he headed a five-man team from the bank which
took a 22-day trip to China and visited several
cities in that country.

JOHN J. Fox JR., formerly with the Central Na-
_tional Bank in Richmond, Va., has joined Security
Systems Inc., a fire- and smoke-detection and
burglary-protection firm.

a 1959

 
  

| en named director
of plastic and orbital surgery in the ophthalmology
departments of Harvard Medical School and

  

I all alliancs ce “of et ang ana cel
persons in this c country, working with such organi
zations as the National Council of Senior Citizens, |

 

CHARLES F. Davis (See 1987,

 

have o openec eda ‘real e estate firm: in 1 Greenville, Del.
They have two sons. |

 

 

oard J of the First t Wichita Texas) National ) ank.
Harvey is owner of Texoma Ag-Products Co..
agri ribusiness £ firm n he started i in n Towa Park, Texas.

   
 
  
  

 

  
 

In 1978 Harvey was voted
honorary chapte 1 farmer by the Iowa Park Futur
2 ur ners. He is + currently vice president of the
Independent Fertilizer Manufacturers of North
America, chairman of Wichita County Program
Building Committee, and a director i in the 4-H
Association.

 

PHILIP BOOTH alter a five-yea contract with the
tropolitan 1 Opera in n New ‘York, expec

 

 

PETER A. smn mu, .
Norfolk, Va. |
WILLIAM E. LATTURE
Greensboro, ‘Nz C.

 

 

49

 

 

   
  

 

 

city, a trustee of the Birmir

 

nme: scientist. The major portion of his
work j is related to the environmental effects of
Jcean Thermal Energy Conversion.

  

ire mbers, on Sept. 18, 1979.
ophthalmology it in Chevy ¢ Chase,

1 AD has been promoted to
arket development of Illinois

O1 esident of Lone Star B Beer

 
   
   
  
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

jmnpson and his wife have

al lorney in Boston,
ard of trustees of

 

the Birmingham l ae firm of Spain, Gillian, Riley,
Tate and Etheridge on n Jan. ‘1, 1980. Frazier is a
member of the design. review comm ittee for the

ham Historical Society
and president of the F orest i Park c community his-

  

 

toric district.

F. ScoTr KENNEDY In. is an associate professor of
biochemistry at Louisiana State University School
of Medicine in Shreveport.

Dr. JOHN E. MORGAN is practicing internal medi-
cine and gastroenterology in Roanoke, Va. He and

“his da have two children, Jay, 8, and Amy, 4

company bulthna g apart pres resi len
riterma He lives in La

 
 
   
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 

James C. Hamu

  

psychiatry to  eomplement his general osyehiatry
diplomate status.

 

>E} INY Jr. is practicing anes-
intonio, Texas . He and his wife,
Alec, 7, and Sarah, 5.

 

 

 

1 1 Scott, | on Pat . 20, “1979, in Lake

 

son, “Willi ul
Wales, Fla.

 

Dr. J. ‘GILLUM BuRKE has opened practice as the
first orthopedic specialist in his home town of
Mount Airy, N.C. He served as chief resident of
orthopedic surgery at North Carolina Baptist Hos-
pital in Winston-Salem in 1978-79. Burke lives in

 
 

Mount Airy vat his wile, Carol, and daughter,
| Emily.
WwW. LAWRE AER is a compensation ana.

   

for Jim Walter «Corp. in Tampa, Fla. |

 

L was appointed senior legal ad-
visor to Patricia Price Bailey of the Federal Trade

Commission on Oct. 30, 1979.

  

HARTWELL III has been elected chairman
of the antitrust law section of the Vir ginia State Bar |
for 1979-80. He is associated with the Richmond
firm of Hunton and Walliams.

Ray V. ] HA

 

 

 

    
  
  
 

Makc A. SCHEWEL has been named 1980 crusade
chairman for the Lynchburg Metro opolitan Unit of
the American Cancer S: . He is secretary of
aaaihan F urniture Co.,. ing st stores in nine

   
   
 

it ms n amusical celebrating

n¢ ovement.

 
    
  
 
 
 
  
   

: Mr. id Mrs. H. VAUGHAN GRIFFIN JR.,
Lindsey McClelland, on Aug. 7, 1979,
ry, Ve In February 1979, Griffin be-
sled Marble Savings Bank.

 

Rs. JouN M. NOLAN, a daugh-
y sy Eli Elizabeth » on May 2, 1979. Nolan
manager of the de-

BIRTH: MR. and Mrs. JouN b M. SPENCER JR., a
daughter, Jullianna Marie, on Sept. 13, 1979.

encer is married to the former Tucker Drake
es they live in ‘Hydes, Md.

 

 

Corp. in New York City as the GNMA t trader . is

 

 

) UTERS III,
20, 1978, in Bra-
in the law firn

 

LEwIis F. POWELL III has become associated with
the Richmond, Va., law firm of Hunton & Wil-
liams. He is married to the former Mims Maynard.

BEVERLEY H. Woop has accepted a new position
as vice president and department manager for em-
ployee benefit plan administration of the First
National Bank in Dallas. He had been employed
for the past five years by Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C.

MICHAEL E. Younc has been named a regional
editor for the Atlantic City Press. He also won first
place in the journalism competition of the New
Jersey American Automobile Association for a
series of articles published in 1978 and 1979. Young
lives in Cape May.

1975
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. PIccIoTTI, a
daughter, Jennifer, on Feb. 10, 1978, in Wilming-
ton, Del. Picciotti works for his father’s firm,
Architectural Hardware Co.

JAMES T. BECKER expects to receive his Ph.D. in
psychology from Johns Hopkins University in May.
He then plans two years as a post-doctoral fellow in
neuropsychology at the Boston Veterans’ Admini-
stration Hospital.

JOHN T. DAHLBURG received the Doctor of Laws
degree with a specialization in political science
and with highest honors from the Universities of
Paris (Sorbonne) and Toulouse in January 1980.
His dissertation, Cuba Libre, and his thesis,
Monopoly Party and Mass Organizations, will be
published in 1980 by the Institut d’ Etudes Politi-
ques. In February, Dahlburg returned to the
United States to resume his career-in journalism.

EDMOND B. (TED) GREGORY III of Frederick, Md.,
was recently promoted to associate with Linton,
Shafer, and Co., an accounting firm.

KENNETH C. MILLER III is teaching history and
coaching soccer and lacrosse at Boys’ Latin School
in Baltimore, Md.

CAPT. JOEL A. WILLIAMS is stationed in Germany
with the U.S. Army. He is senior defense counsel
for the Schweinfurt JAG office.

JAMES WILSON is general manager and publisher
of the daily Mount Vernon (Ind.) Democrat and
the West Side Story, a weekly newspaper in
Evansville, Ind. Both are a part of Landmark
Community Newspapers Inc. of Shelbyville, Ky.,
a subsidiary of Landmark Communications in

Norfolk.
Ray V. HARTWELL III (See 1969.)

1976

MARRIAGE: R. LECKy STONE JR. and Nancy
Romm on June 16, 1979, in Moyock, N.C. They

   

D. C. McCabe, ’76

live in Charlottesville, Va., where Stone is an
attorney with Fred G. Wood Jr. and Associates.

JOHN G. BERRY graduated from the University of
Virginia Law School and is associated with the
Madison, Va., law firm of Puryear, Chandler and
Early.

WILLIAM T. DRISCOLL III is a second-year student
in the M.B.A. program at Old Dominion University
in Norfolk, Va.

LUTHER H. DUDLEY II is practicing law in Char-
lotte, N.C., with the firm of Helms, Mulliss and
Johnston.

DAVIS JACKSON has recently passed his C.P.A.
examination. He works for the Houston firm of
Arendale, Young & Searcy.

Davip C. McCaBE has been promoted to a resi-
dential loan officer in the Falls Church branch of
VNB Mortgage Corp. He joined VNB in 1977.
McCabe lives with his wife, Cynthia, and son,
Brian, in Reston, Va.

JOHN F. SHETTLE is presently executive vice
president with Eastern Aviation & Marine Under-
writers located in Baltimore, Md. The company
writes aircraft insurance coverages.

TAPPEY B. SQUIRES is a C.P.A. He also attends
New York University part time and lives in West-
port, Conn.

WALTER E. VEGHTE III is employed by Merrill
Lynch in New York.

JUSTIN G. ADAMS (See 1970.)

CLIFFORD L. WALTERS III (See 1971.)

1977
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. Lucas, a
daughter, Erynn Ainslee, on Dec. 5, 1979, in
Denver. Lucas is an assistant city attorney. They
also have a 2-year-old daughter, Ryann Celine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD FAURES RATH-
BONE, a daughter, Rebecca, on Oct. 19, 1979.
Rathbone is a third-year medical student at LSU in
New Orleans.

 

CLASS REUNIONS
AND
MOCK CONVENTION
May 8, 9, 10

Academic and Law Classes of 1930,
1935, 1940, 1945, 1950, 1955, 1960,
1965, 1970, 1975 and Gold Star Gen-
erals (All classes before 30). Plan to
attend.

 

 

 

  

E. H.

  

Callison Ir. 77

<n

J. D. Gottwald, ’77

 

EDWIN H. CALLISON JR. has been elected a bank-
ing officer of the Trust Company Bank in Atlanta.
He is assigned to the corporate services group.
Callison joined the bank in 1977 as a management
trainee.

JoHN D. GotrwaLp has been named general
manager of the Elk Horn Coal Corp., a subsidiary
of Ethyl Corp. Gottwald joined Ethyl in January
1977. He will be responsible for all phases of Elk
Horn’s operation, including finance, sales, engi-
neering, leasing, and West Virginia Belt Sales &
Repairs Inc., a subsidiary of Elk Horn. His offices
will be located in Richmond.

REID H. GRIFFIN received his C.P.A. certificate
in January 1979. In July 1979 he resigned from the
accounting firm of Cooper and Lybrand and joined
Mobil Oil’s corporate internal department in New
York.

E. BRUCE HARVEY Jr. is director of Christian
education for the First Presbyterian Church in
Richmond, Ky. His wife, Bridget, is part-time
secretary for the White Oak Pond Christian
Church.

1978

MARRIAGE: JAMEs H. VEGHTE and Debra Hench
Bowis on July 7, 1979, in Bethesda, Md. Walter E.
Veghte III, ’76, brother of the groom, was best
man. Ushers included classmates Clay Kingsbery,
Shelby Bailey and Bill Cranshaw. Veghte is em-
ployed by Reinsurance Corp. of New York.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. TOWNES DuNCAN, a
daughter, Ruth Wakefield, on Aug. 10, 1979.
Duncan does corporate and securities work at Bass,
Berry, and Sims in Nashville, Tenn.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM Ray PRICE JR., a
daughter, Emily Margaret, on July 21, 1978. Price
is associated with a law firm in Kansas City, Mo.

JOHN L. BRucH III has been assigned to the tra-
veling group for Chemical Bank in New York. He
calls on banks and corporations in Arkansas,
Louisiana and Oklahoma.

WILLIAM K. BURTON is a first-year student at the
Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration at the University of Virginia.

BRIAN P. CARROLL is an IBM marketing repre-
sentative in New York. He is also playing rugby tor
the Winged Foot Football Club. Carroll completed
the Army’s basic course for engineer officer at Fort
Belvoir on Oct. 24, 1979.

JAMES T. CHRISTMAS is a first-year medical student
at the University of Virginia.

JOHN T. CRUTCHER is working for Crutcher-Tufts
Corp., an independent oil and gas company based
in New Orleans.

27

 

7

e

 

 

 

Shenandoah

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

 

 

 

Shenandoah

30/3 $1.50

 

 

 

 

 

 

W iters of this stature appear
in SHENANDOAHB:
ROBERT PENN WARREN
ALLEN TATE

PETER TAYLOR
ELIZABETH BISHOP
Roy FULLER

ROBERT LOWELL
RICHARD HOWARD
REYNOLDS PRICE

W. S. MERWIN

JOYCE CAROL OATES

Two stories that appeared in
SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards
for distinguished brief fiction.

W on’t you subscribe to Wash-
ington and Lee _ University’s
award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and
criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
[_] One year @ $5.00

My check for $ enclosed.

L] Two years @ $8.00

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

State Zip

I go on admiring [Shenandoah], none in the

country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

I can think offhand of only two or three uni-
versity-financed reviews in which the impact
of a strong editorial personality has created a
vital magazine. The examples that come to
my mind are those of David Ray and the
strong social-radical consciousness he has
brought to the editing of New Letters for the
University of Missouri at Kansas City; of the
elegant and rather patrician standards James
Boatwright has given to Shenandoah at
Washington and Lee; and of Robin Skelton,
who has brought such a distinctively inter-
national flavor to the Malahat Review at the

University of Victoria in British Columbia.
—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America: A Modern
Documentary History (TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

You are the best “little” magazine in the

country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories. . . . Sixteen were first published in
the pages of little magazines, quarterly re-
views, irregularly issued periodicals reaching
a small, a very small, readership. (Shenan-
doah, for example, one of the best of these
magazines from which I have taken two
stories, prints approximately one thousand

copies of each quarterly issue.)
—wWilliam Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

Dr. Robert Coles, child psychiatrist and
author, is, by his own description, one of
those “Yankees who went south and fell in
love with the region.” He is a loyal subscriber
to several “good southern literary quarter-
lies”: The Sewanee Review. . . The Southern
Review . . . The Georgia Review; and Shen-

andoah.”
—“Where Opinion Makers Get Their Opinions,”
Esquire, June 5, 1979

ae

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-]ACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

