he alumni magazine of washington and lee university JANUARY 1974

| y J @ > aes
Washingt University

 

 

. FEB 14 1974

N. MANCHESTER, INDIANA

THE HECKMAN BINDERY, INC.

 

<ot.

 

 

 

Mh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 49, Number 1, January 1974

William C. Washburn 740.000.000.000... teeters Edttor
Romulus T. Weatherman....................... Managing Editor
Rover S. Keele, GS..................0:000..... Associate Editor
BNE, TOyCO MTOR scenes Editorial Assistant
PUOTt LOCALE, TF eno cisco eseeereendeteres Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Jarrard’s Hippocampus Research. ...............0. -
Jarrard, the Trumpeter 0.0.0.0... 5
A Report from Hillier ..........0.0.. cee 6
Branch Reports on Alumni Conference .............. 7
Mason Bequest Establishes Professorship .............. 12
Gift Honors Howeérton 20.0000. ee ee 13
mae INOW io ee thet nara 14
Fall Athletics Roundup ...............:: cee 19
CME NCW fii lee ddan ee one tie 21
Chapter Correspondents ..............:ce ae
RM PRUE i eseniersnes eecasiectometonesncensniarsteun mrcnaanany 23
Th CINTA nc 27
Unlocated Alumni ..........00..00..... alae 28

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM H. HILuier, 38, Chicago, II.
President

T. HA Cxiarke, 38, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

EvERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C, WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Tuomas B. Brancu, III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
RIcHARD D. Haynes, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
VERNON W. HoLLEMAN, 58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce Houeu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, ‘Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
CuHaARLEs C. STIEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. Tuomas Toucuton, 60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

-
oo?

On the Cover and Facing Page: The clock and
bells in the tower of Lee Chapel provided some
beautiful and evocative images for our photo-
erapher when he set out to take a set of photos
of one National Historic Landmark looking to-
ward another. But they also provided him an
important lesson: Never stand next to the West-
minster chimes at the top of the hour. Photos by
Robert Lockhart, ’72.

 

 

 

 

WeL
2

maa 7
a

 

 

 *." 4
eta”
ig hg te Fo

s

 

} sae
=xs

 

iss

:
a

:

Jarrard’s research requires about 60 specially bred albino rats,
whose behaviorial characteristics are automatically recorded for
analysis by computer. At right: Mrs. Maria Hunt, lab technician,
prepares section of hippocampal tissue for microscopic
examination. Slide-preparation process is so intricate that each
one takes two months’ work.

Surgery and other experimental manipulations, ot
course, require no less careful attention. Using mazes,
feeding and drinking stations with advanced automatic
measuring and recording equipment, and similar labora-
tory devices, activity is chronicled with minute preci-
sion. Behavior can then be analyzed for patterns of
frequency and sequence in 15-second time segments, us-
ing special computer programs which detect deviations
from “normal’’ activity, determined by subjecting ‘“‘con-
trol” rats in which the hippocampus has not been mani-
pulted to identical stimuli.

Jarrard is aided in his research by a full-time lab
technician and, this year, two Robert E. Lee Research
assistants, James TI. Becker and Curtis E. Boswell, both
juniors and psychology majors. Becker is aiding Jarrard
in his ongoing research into the specific behavioral
functions of different segments of the hippocampus.
Boswell and Jarrard are investigating the role of the
hippocampus in the ability to discern brightness and in
spatial discrimination.

One of the advantages Jarrard says he finds in con-
ducting research at a small, teaching-oriented institu-
tion such as Washington and Lee—for he teaches a full
load of courses—is precisely that opportunity to work
closely and individually with students.

4 Wel

Last November, Len Jarrard went to
paper
entitled “Effects of Interpolated Activity
in Rats’ be-
fore a group of fellow psychological re-
The
though, was that it meant the Lexing-

St. Louis to deliver a_ research
on Short-Term Retention

searchers. unhappy part of it,
ton Quintet’s virtuoso trumpeter wasn't
in town to play for Parents’ Weekend at
Washington and Lee.

For he’s not only head of the psy-
chology department and researcher of
national stature and prolific author and
consulting editor to a psychology jour-
nal; in his spare time, he’s an extra-
ordinarily talented trumpeter. He plays
regularly with a couple of groups, but
mostly with the Quintet — all of whose
members are executives and other pro-
fessional men, none a musician by
trade, who together are one of the most
popular and sought-after jazz groups in
the area.

One might expect somebody as pro-

fessionally have

active wouldn’t any
spare time. He teaches courses in first-
year psychology (“one of the most re-
warding experiences is to introduce stu-
dents to the field”), physiological psy-
chology (the underlying physical and
chemical bases of complex behavior), and
psychoactive drugs and behavior (es-
pecially in terms of personality).

He is a member of the editorial
board of The Journal of Comparative
and Physiological Psychology; he has two
dozen publications of his own to his cre-
dit — most recently a book he edited,
Cognitive Processes of Non-human Pri-
mates, and a major survey article for
Psychological Bulletin on the status of
research in America into the hippocam-
pus and motivation. Last spring he was
program chairman for the annual meet-
ing of the Midwestern Psychological As-
sociation, and he delivers research papers
regularly before that and other profes-
sional organizations. He’s a reviewer for
Science, for Psychology and Behavior,
and for Learning and Motivation.

He taught at Washington and Lee
for seven years before leaving in 1966—

temporarily, as it turned out; everybody

January, 1974

 

Blow,
Len,
blow

knew he would return eventually (he

 

 

 

even kept his land on the Goshen road)
—to teach at Carnegie-Mellon University,
where he had received his M.S. and
Ph.D. degrees.

After two years at Carnegie Tech
he was named chairman of the graduate
program in psychology and directed a
number of master’s theses and doctoral
dissertations. He was the psychology de-
partment’s representative to the Carnegie
Tech faculty senate and a member of the
senate’s executive committee until he de-
cided to return to Washington and Lee
in 1971.

What persuaded him to return to
Washington and Lee, he says, is its
teaching orientation — which, as he him-
self demonstrates, hardly excludes re-
search. In fact, he observes, basic research

is an integral part of the teaching pro-
cess for students and professors alike. At
Carnegie Tech, he recalls, he missed the
day-to-day contact with undergraduates.

He succeeded Dr. William M. Hinton
as head of the W&L psychology depart:
ment. (Dr. Hinton had reached 65, the
age for mandatory retirement from ad-
ministrative duties; he continues to teach
full-time.) He brought back with him
the interest in the hippocampus he’d initi-
ally developed while at Washington and
Lee — and, to the relief of the Quintet
and its audiences, he brought back his
trumpet.

“For talent, Len is in a league with
Bobby Hackett [Glenn Miller's cornet-
ist], says Skip Houff, the Quintet’s
drummer (who has played professionally,
and now conducts a popular jazz and big-
band music program on WREL in Lex-
ington). “In delicacy of phrasing and tone
quality and precision and imagination
and thought, he’s as good as anybody
there is. If he ever wanted to leave teach-
ing he could play with any group in the
country. Everybody who’s ever worked
with him thinks he’s a great horn-player
and a great guy.”

—R.S.K.

 

At Finals, 1973: Teacher, researcher, author, editor—and top man with a horn.

Dear Fellow Alumni:

This report will cover the Alumni
Board meeting of Nov. 8, 1973, which
took place the day that the Sixth Special
Alumni Conference began. The confer-
ence is covered in a separate report in
this issue of the Alumni Magazine.

In addition to the members of the
Board of Directors, the Board
meeting was attended by Calvert Thomas,
"38A, chairman of the 1973-1974 Alumni
Fund drive. The session opened with a

Alumni

welcoming of the new Board members,
Al Darby, Chuck Stieff,
Branch. Tom ‘Touchton was absent be-

and ‘Tom

cause of illness.

Farris Hotchkiss, director of Univer-
sity Development, presented a summary
of the alumni attitude survey recently
conducted by Associates for Research in
Behavior, Inc., of Philadelphia. High-
lights included: 84% of alumni inter-
viewed would go to W&L if they had to
98%
Alumni Magazine and read or at least
glanced through it; 48% thought the
University was “extremely well off’; 25%

do it over again; received the

thought it was “fairly secure” and only
8% felt it is in financial trouble (It is
in better financial condition than many
private colleges, but the current and
capital needs are great); alumni give
to W&L because of loyalty, gratitude,
and appreciation (41%), or sense of
charity or obligation (22%) and a de-
sire to keep W&L operating (21%). The
executive summary and conclusions of
survey were published in the December
issue of the Alumni Magazine.

Douglas Schwartz, president of the
Student Body, joined the meeting later
in the afternoon. Doug outlined some
of the programs his Executive Com-
mittee has inaugurated to better coordi-
nate student activities on campus and

6

A

report

from
Hillier

William H. Hillier, ’38

to foster a greater sense of “community”
in the student body. He also described
the orientation sessions on the Honor
System conducted for incoming freshmen
and, for the first time, for new law stu-
dents. Doug then fielded questions from
Board members on many phases of cur-
rent student interest.

Cal Thomas outlined his organiza-
tion and plans for the 1973-1974 Alumni
Fund campaign. The class agents met
in Lexington in September in an en-
thusiastic session, attended by Everett
Tucker, ’34, as representative of the
Alumni Board. Cal’s goals are realistic,
and, with the help of all of you, will be
attained and possibly exceeded.

Frank Parsons, assistant to President
Huntley, next gave a presentation on
the plans for physical facilities improve-
ments on campus. There will be student

 

apartments for approximately 170 stu-
dents constructed for occupancy in the
fall of 1974. Their location is on the side
of the ravine, downstream from the
footbridge. Frank also reported on pro-
gress of the law school building (close
to schedule) and plans for the new un-
dergraduate library. (The library plans
are in the detail drawing stage, but still
in need of more financial commitments.)
He stressed the need for repairs and im-
provements on the Front Campus, in-
cluding the four faculty homes all of
which are part of the development plan.

Everett Tucker reported for the Dis-
tinguished Alumnus Awards Committee.
The committee is to hold a _ special
meeting in Atlanta in February to
screen candidates.

Prof. Lewis H. (Lash) LaRue of the
Law School joined the meeting to dis-
cuss the work of the ad hoc faculty com-
mittee which is working on a policy re-
commendation regarding students who
may be convicted of felonies. The com-
mittee plans to present a tentative re-
port to the University for comment and
then a final report. Copies of the tenta-
tive report will be furnished to mem-
bers of the Alumni Board for their sanc-
tions. Lash outlined some of the prob-
lems which were of concern to the ad
hoc committee and Board members ex-
pressed their tentative reactions to some
of them. It was a most interesting and
useful discussion of a difficult prob-
lem.

The next regular Board
meeting is Friday, May 10, 1974, the
day before the annual meeting of Wash-

Alumni

ington and Lee Alumni, Inc. on Satur-
day, May ll.
Sincerely,
BILL HI vuieEr, ’38, President
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WeL

by Thomas B. Branch, III, ’58BA, ’60LLB

Reflections on lunch

_..and other thoughts and impressions
about the 6th Special Alumni Conference

Tom Branch, an Atlanta, Ga., attorney, is a member
of the Alumni Board of Directors. Here he reports on
his experience as a delegate to the Sixth Annual Alumni
Conference in November. The conference, like those pre-
ceding it, was designed to give a small group of interest-
ed alumni an in-depth look at W&L’s current status,
challenges, and outlook for the future. The editors are
grateful to Tom Branch for this lively article.

To the best of my recollection, I knew no certified,
card-carrying vegetarians during my college and law
school years at Washington and Lee. Of course, peanut
butter and jelly sandwiches were the main source of pro-
tein at most fraternity house lunches, but by and large,
students in the generation of the 50s were given to the
enjoyment of meat and other products of our environ-
ment without much concern about the source of the
food. Therefore, I was somewhat surprised to learn
that the student seated next to me at lunch during the
Sixth Special Alumni Conference, Bryan Baldwin, was a
vegetarian. Bryan’s costume was of even greater interest
to me, consisting of a colorful full-length dress. Bryan
was, in fact, a girl, and one of the Hollins College stu-
dents participating in the student exchange program
with Washington and Lee and other colleges. During the
course of our conference, I learned from Bryan, the
other students, faculty and administration personnel in-
volved that the exchange program is only one of the
many recent changes at Washington and Lee, but that
on the whole, the University is more like than unlike the
University I knew from the fall of 1954 until the spring
of 1960.

Sixty-nine alumni, most with their wives, attended
the conference in Lexington from Nov. 8 through Nov.
10. The men varied widely in age, several having gra-
duated as recently as the spring of 1973, while others
would certainly qualify for membership in the “Old
Guard.” They came from all over the country and rep-
resented a wide variety of occupations and life styles. In
short, they were certainly representative of the total body
of alumni, and it was soon apparent that they were de-
termined to make themselves heard as well as to hear.

The conference representatives were divided into
four groups of approximately 20 men each, and many of
the wives attended conference meetings.

January, 1974

with a vegetarian

 

  

Author Tom Branch (left) with Gary Avery, ’74, during
Sixth Special Alumni Conference meeting.

The conference dealt with four formal areas of in-
terest—curriculum, development, University governance,
and student life. Additionally, a session was set aside for
discussion with representatives of the student body in
the absence of any persons from either the faculty or the
administration.

I will not go into any detail concerning the facts
given us about the curriculum, the University’s develop-
ment program, governance, or the present format of
student government. Better sources of material on each
of these topics is available to you, and you have undoubt-
edly read a good bit about these matters in the Alumni

7

Special Conference Report

 

Magazine and other publications. I do think you might
be interested to know the impression we received from
the presentations made in these areas.

With regard to curriculum, it is certainly my impres-
sion that Washington and Lee is still basically a liberal
arts college. I suspect that the vast majority of its gradu-
ates are able to read and write, and that many of the
students have a desire to do both. I am not sure whether
the University has any active giants today, such a Ley-
burn, Gilliam and Gaines, but someone has been prick-
ing the intellectual curiosity of the students. Therefore,
while few trades are taught at Washington and Lee, I am
confident that today’s graduates are prepared, at least
as well as we were, to make their way in the world with
thinking minds equal to the many challenges they will
face.

Briefly, a word about the new three-term academic
year. Many of us went to the conference with the idea
that the six-week short term was probably a play period,
coming as it does in the spring of the year. We left the
conference fairly well convinced that at least as much
play does go on in the spring as it did when we were
students, happily, but that the short term format aids in

WA, isp Vie

 

making some formal education available at the same
time. Particularly, intensive study in the field is made
possible in the natural sciences, and the Commerce
School has found ways of giving its students brief,
though intensive, exposure to the world of business.

All of us were extremely interested in the Univer-
sity’s development program, and it was exciting to see
the visible evidence of its fruits. Every alumnus who
thrilled to a basketball game with the Wahoos in Dore-
mus Gymnasium will be appalled at the vastness of the
new basketball court. It would not surprise me greatly
if all of the old gym were smaller than the area of the
new basketball arena alone. This is not to say that it ri-
vals the palaces of the Atlantic Coast Conference, but
there will certainly be no need to ask spectators to press
aside in order that a contestant may throw the ball in
bounds unimpeded, as was the case in old Doremus.

Many of the alumni who attended the conference
had not seen Evans Dining Hall, though its construc-
tion had been completed by the beginning of my last
year in law school. This building, with its adjoining
student activities center, has added immeasurably to the
cohesiveness of student life. The Cockpit, the informal

Dr. John Newton Thomas (center),
Rector of W&L’s Board of Trustees,
in meeting on governance of the
University. With him, from left:
President Huntley; Stephen J.

Greene, °74, vice president of the
student body; James W. Whitehead,
University treasurer; A. A. Radcliffe,
°37, delegate to the conference, and

J. Sanford Doughty, associate director
of development. Facing page: Student
body president Doug Schwartz (left)
and Bryan Baldwin (center), a Hollins
junior at W&L on the Eight-College
Exchange Program, with Steven B,
Sandler, ’70, a delegate to the
conference.

WeL

ee

: eae

a
oe
|

oe

wa!
a

 

Special Conference Report

 

 

 

Enjoying panel discussion on Univer-
: sity’s development plans and progress
; were, from left, L. R. McMillan, I,
: 69; Charles R. Beall, ’°56; Ned H.
Brower, °42; William C. Washburn,
Jr., °66, and Judge F. Nelson Light,
‘52L. Below: President Huntley re-
sponded with confidence and en-
thusiasm to questions in panel dis-
cussions on governance and finance.
Facing page: Delegates peruse 200-
page “Reference Book” prepared
specifically for the conference by
Frank A. Parsons, assistant to the
President—a comprehensive summary
of Washington and Lee’s characteris-
tics, plans and trends. From left: Earle
P. Brown, ’44; Homer W. Weidmann,
‘39; Robert B. Priddy, ’67; Randy H.
Lee, ’66, *69L; Charles M. Patrick,
55, and Dr. Daniel Blain, ’21.

unconcerned with the whole question. Their feeling
seemed to be that the sex of students at Washington
and Lee was of less importance than the other things
that have made the University great since its inception.

Lest the picture seem too rosy, there are problems in
student life today that are frightening to one of my
generation. Hard drugs—heroin, amphetamines and the
like—are not in evidence and do not seem to constitute
a problem of any magnitude at Washington and Lee.
However, marijuana is as easily obtainable, and as freely
used, as liquor was when I was a student. When I re-
member that I began my trips to the ABC store when I
was only 18, a full three years before the law even per-
mitted me in that building, it is difficult for me to
moralize about this particular problem.

Another problem of student life concerns me greatly,
and represents the most disappointing information I
picked up during the conference. As you know, the Uni-
versity was racially integrated some years ago, though it
was extremely difficult to interest outstanding young
black men in a traditional, Southern university in a
small, mountain community. It had been my hope that
the black students would be truly integrated into the

WeL

|
- _ _ os
ae oe
Ce
SO
te

a
i Saget 7
ae

 

 

S. Blount Mason

 

trusts establish

 

new professorship

 

S. Blount Mason, Jr.

 

More than $430,000 has been received by
Washington and Lee from trusts established by
S. Blount Mason, Jr., a prominent Baltimore
insurance executive who died in May, 1969, and his
wife, who died four months earlier.

Under terms of Mason’s will, the trust will
be used to strengthen faculty salaries at Washing-
ton and Lee. University officials said a professorship
in the name of S. Blount Mason, Jr., will be es-
tablished in recognition of the gift. The holder of
the chair will be appointed and announced later by
the Board of ‘Trustees.

After attending Washington and Lee from
1901 to 1903, Mason joined U.S. Fidelity and
Guaranty Co. of Baltimore and spent his entire
business career with that firm. He was named vice
president for workmen’s compensation and general
liability in 1923; he retired in 1949.

He was born in Richmond, a descendant of
George Mason, the author of Virginia’s Declaration
of Rights. His grandfather served as secretary of
the Navy, United States attorney general, ambassa-
dor to France and president of the 1850 Virginia
Constitutional Convention. His father, while a
cadet at Virginia Military Institute, fought at
New Market.

Sharing with Washington and Lee in the Mason
trusts are Woodberry Forest School, which he
also attended, and the Church and Home Hospital
in Baltimore.

An avid gardener during his lifetime, Mason was
also a member of several social and historical or-
ganizations, including the Virginia Branch of the
Society of the Cincinnati, the Sons of the American
Revolution, and the Maryland Club, of which he
was an officer for many years.

The Mason gifts bring to more than $5.5
million the amount contributed so far to endow-
ment for salaries, student financial aid, and other
yearly expenses as part of Washington and Lee’s
decade-long $56-million development program.
Funds for endowment will account for $24 million
of that total, half of it to be achieved by 1976.

 

12

WeL

Innovative program in religion
honors Philip F. Howerton

A major new memorial endowment
fund has been created to support a
series of innovative programs in the
University’s Department of Religion.

Aided by a gift of an additional
$100,000 from Mrs. Emmie M. Hower-
ton of Charlotte, N. C., the fund — now
valued at $150,000 — honors the memory
of Mrs. Howerton’s late husband, Philip
Fullerton Howerton, who died May 19,
1968. He was a former moderator of the
Presbyterian Church in the U.S. (South-
ern), a prominent insurance executive in
Charlotte, and a nationally known lec-
turer both in religion and in many or-
ganizations in the field of life insurance
in general.

The memorial endowment fund will
support a variety of programs at Wash-
ington and Lee designed to stimulate
an increased examination and_ under-
standing of the value of religious faith
in modern society and to reinforce the
University’s basic commitment to what
Robert E. Lee once spoke of as “the
very marrow of the Gospel,” according
to Mrs. Howerton.

The Howerton Endowment Program
is designed to respond to the require:
ments of each generation of students and
the availability of resources. The fund
will be used to sponsor distinguished lec-
tureships in the Department of Religion,
to bring scholars to the campus for ex-
tended periods during the academic year,
to support seminars involving both stu-
dents and religious leaders, to establish
and extend new programs in the study
of business and professional ethics in
fields such as medicine, insurance, jour-
nalism, broadcasting and law, and to
acquire important audio-visual teaching
materials.

Howerton was the son of a Presby-
terian minister, the Rev. James Robert

January, 1974

 

Visiting WeL campus in December to complete plans for establishment of memorial en-
dowment fund in religion to honor the late Philip Fullertown Howerton were, from left,
Dr. and Mrs. John Newton Thomas; Philip F. Howerton, Jr.; Mrs. Philip F. Howerton,

Sr.; and North Carolina State Sen. Herman A. Moores, Jr. Howerton Jr. and Moores are
sons of Mrs. Howerton.

Howerton, who was professor of religion
and philosophy at Washington and Lee
and head of that department from 1907
until his death in 1924. The elder Hower-
ton was moderator of the Presbyterian
Church U.S. in 1907, and his son Philip
became moderator 50 years later. Philip
Howerton received an honorary doctor of
humanities degree from Southwestern at
Memphis in 1964.

Philip Howerton was born in Char-

lotte, but grew up in Lexington and was
educated (Class of 1925) at Washington
and Lee, where he was a close friend of
Dr. John Newton Thomas, who was one
class ahead of him. Dr. Thomas, professor
emeritus of systematic theology at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond, be-
came a W&L Trustee in 1938 and re-
tired in January as rector of its board.
After returning to Charlotte, Philip

Howerton opened his own _ insurance

13

Campus News

 

business in 1935. At the time of his death,
his agency was the 12th largest agency in
the nation affiliated with Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance Co. He was a life
member of the life insurance industry’s
“Million Dollar Roundtable.”

The programs proposed to inaugu-
rate the Howerton Fund in the immedi-
ate future will supplement course offer-
ings in the Department of Religion and
other religious-oriented undertakings
both within the University’s formal cur-
riculum and outside it.

The professional ethics program will
encourage investigation of moral issues
involved in the fields of medicine, busi-
ness, insurance, advertising, journalism,
broadcasting, law and other fields. The
program will serve to extend an unusual
interdepartmental examination of bio-
medical ethics introduced for pre-medical
undergraduates in 1972.

Widely known scholars and clergy-
men will be invited to the campus both
for individual lectures and for periods
in residence. Films and tape cassettes,
useful to both the student and _ profes-
sor, will be acquired under the Howerton
Fund as well, to supplement texts and
class discussions with documentary
studies, unpublished addresses, lectures,
sermons, dialogues and panel discussions
by recognized religious leaders and schol-

ars from around the world.

 

New Text by Winfrey

 

John C. Winfrey, associate professor
of economics, is the author of a major
new text entitled Public Finance—Public
Choices and the Public Economy. It was
published in December by Harper &
Row.

In the book, Winfrey examines the
dilemmas of establishing governmental

14

 

priorities at several levels as well as ways

to finance them in practical terms of
current American politics and the bal-
ance between the electorate’s view of
social needs versus self-interest.

The book deals with a wide variety
of economic concepts and model sys-
tems and their operation under the fre-
quently conflicting pressures from the
voting public, the Congress, other gov-
ernmental bodies, various interest groups,
and other sources of influence.

Winfrey’s book includes specific ex-
aminations of a number of tax sources,
including the concept of a negative in-
come tax, levies on property and inheri-
tances, social security taxes, general sales
taxes, excise, and corporate taxes.

Of the current notion to replace the
sales tax with a European-style “valued
added Winfrey writes: “In the
United States at least it would seem

tax,

more sensible to increase the use of the
general sales tax” than to replace it if tax
increases on goods are necessary.

Winfrey’s book also examines “public
choices of the 1970's,” focusing particu-
larly on the problems of urban blight,
mass transit, and the reorganization and
consolidation of city governments.

Winfrey has been teaching economics
at W&L since receiving his Ph. D. from
Duke University in 1965. He _ teaches
courses in public finance and related
fields.

 

Debaters Top Tournament

 

W&L debaters won seven trophies at
the recent regional tournament of the
national debate society, Delta Sigma Rho-
Tau Kappa Alpha.

Among the trophies they brought
in honor of
Washington and Lee’s late debate coach,
William W. Chaffin, who died in an
automobile accident in 1970 while re-

home was one named

turning from a debate meet in New
England. The Chaffin memorial trophy
is presented annually to the best over-
all debate team in the region.

Other awards Washington and Lee
men won were first place trophies in both
affirmative and negative teams; best com-
bined team, first and second place in
extemporaneous speaking, and first place
in after-dinner speaking.

Competing in the meet, held at Roa-
noke College in Salem, were varsity de-
baters Jay Doyle (affirmative team and
extemporaneous awards), Bill Gonch (af-
firmative team and extemporaneous),
Marc Levin (negative team), and Eddie
Fisher (negative team and after-dinner).

In addition to teams from W&L and
Roanoke, debaters from George Washing-

ton and American Universities, the Uni-

WeL

 

 

 

> *
. ——— lc ~

 

versities of Virginia and Richmond, the
College of William and Mary, and
Bridgewater and Madison Colleges com-
peted in the tournament.

The latest victories bring to 10 the
number of trophies captured by Wash-
ington and Lee debaters so far this aca-
demic year.

 

Davis Biography Available

 

A definitive new biography of John
W. Davis — from which pre-publication
excerpts were printed in the Alumni
Magazine in April, coinciding with the
100th anniversary of Davis’ birth — has
just been published by Oxford Univer-
sity Press.

The book is Lawyer’s Lawyer: The
Life of John W. Davis, and is by Wil-
liam H. Harbaugh, professor of his-
tory at the University of Virginia and
biographer also of Theodore Roosevelt.
The book notes in detail the substantial
influence Washington and Lee had on
Davis when he was a student (Class of
1895 A&L) as well as the influence he
had on the University as a graduate
until his death in 1955 and particularly
as a member of the Board of Trustees
(1921-1948).

Copies of the book, which ordinar-
ily retails at $15.00, may be ordered from
the W&L Bookstore for $13.50 plus pos-
tage, under the 10 per cent discount rate
extended to every alumnus.

 

A Fraternity Resurgence

 

Slightly more than two-thirds of
Washington and Lee’s freshmen pledged
a fraternity in fall rush, according to
Statistics compiled by the Interfraternity
Council. The 67 per cent pledge rate is

the highest since 1969.
January, 1974

Leading in numbers of pledges was
Sigma Chi (33 men), as it has in recent
years. Pi Kappa Phi had 26, and Phi
Kappa Psi 23.

Other houses and their pledge totals
are:

Phi Gamma Delta, 19; Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, Phi Kappa Sigma, Lambda Chi
Alpha and Phi Delta Theta, all 16; Sigma
Nu, 15; Pi Kappa Alpha and Delta Tau
Delta, 13; Psi Upsilon and Sigma Phi
Epsilon, 11; Zeta Beta Tau, 10, and
Beta Theta Pi, nine.

Pledging rates have increased gradu-
ally each year since 1970, when just 58
per cent of the freshman class pledged.
‘The next year the rate was 61 per cent,
and in 1972, 65 per cent.

Rush was marked by the return of
Sigma Phi Epsilon to full fraternity
status after two years of semi-inactivity,
the result of numerical problems. Its
pledge class of 11 is taken by the frater-
nity as a signal of a successful recovery.

In the fraternity decline of 1969 and

ea Qe

 

a

ATO/DU house will become shelter home for children.

1970, three fraternities were disbanded
at Washington and Lee, Kappa Alpha,
Kappa Sigma, and Delta Upsilon. Fif-
teen national fraternities remain active
on campus.

 

New Use for DU House

There will be young feet running
through the old Alpha Tau Omega/
Delta Upsilon fraternity house in Lex-

 

ington again, but they won’t belong to
college students.

The building has been purchased by
the congregation of the Lexington Pres-
byterian Church and will be used as a
group shelter home for children who
are awaiting assignment to foster par-
ents.

The church purchased the house
from the W&L Chapter of D.U., Inc.,
in the spring of 1973. Work on reno-
vating the structure has been under way
for several months, and a target date of
March has been established for accepting

 

15

 

 

 

 

Julian insiteepigniininiamamenneatnapen asennad

re reererennet

Hee eee eee ee een eg eae ett AE OC TL OCLC.

NNT TEER eee ne ee en

 

cosshatensaesdhaaihaatcele demeninamneapneepat

a RS I

ror Seenrenataa pm +
re

\

 

es

         

 

 

 

 

sy ai NA at
PP EM,
i

ansenaye

7?

Doyon—to Mexico.

the opportunity beginning this spring of
going to the College of Chinese Culture
in Taiwan with Prof. I-Hsiung Ju, who
was born in China and studied and paint-
ed there until the Communist takeover
— or of taking a tour of Mediterranean
sites important in classical history with
Prof. Mario Pellicciaro, who teaches the
art and literature of ancient Greece and
Rome.

With the group going to the Far East,
W&L students will have the option of
taking six credits in art history or studio
art, Or six in spoken Mandarin, or an
art-language combination. (Iwo years of
spoken Mandarin are already taught at
Washington and Lee.) In a similar man-
ner, students on the Greek-Roman tour
may take six credits in art or six in
Classics, or three in each.

A third new study-abroad program
under the art department is scheduled

January, 1974

 

 

Ju—to Taiwan.

for Mexico in Spring of 1975 under Prof.
Gerard M. Doyon, who teaches art and
art history. This program will be es-
pecially interesting to studio-oriented art
students and second-year Spanish  stu-
dents, for it provides six weeks at the
world-renowned art school and college of
Spanish in San Miguel de Allende, 150
miles north of Mexico City — plus a
few days in Mexico City itself, together
with tours to ancient sites of pre-Colum-
bian cultures.

Under other study-abroad programs in
the six-week Spring Term, Washington
and Lee students can study a wide var-
iety of subjects — including art — in
England, France, Germany, Spain, Africa
and elsewhere. There is also a Spring
Term internship program under which
W&L art majors work as curators of
major museums in Virginia and North
Carolina.

Pellicciaro—to the Mediterranean.

So it is hardly difficult to see the
day when Washington and Lee art stu-
dents may find themselves in Beirut,
Bombay, even Moscow and Peking —
anywhere, in fact, there is art.

by Gerard M. Doyon
Professor of Art

 

Loesel Photos on View

 

Photographs of Africa by James E.
Loesel, instructor in politics, were on
display in duPont Gallery at the Uni-
versity in December. Also included in
the exhibit were examples of sculpture
created by Africans, some pieces of which
will be available for purchase.

Loesel, whose field of teaching is in
international relations, is a specialist on
African political systems. He inaugurat-
ed the Washington and Lee Spring-Term
“safari” (trip) to several East African

17

Campus News

 

nations in 1972 and will take another
group of students there again this spring.

Loesel’s photographs, taken in Africa,
include landscapes, animal photos, and
portraits.

 

Article by Riegel

 

The new issue of Film Critic, the
quarterly of the American Federation
of Film Societies, carries an article of
criticism by O. W. Riegel, professor
emeritus of journalism at Washington
and Lee University.

The article, “Karlovy Vary: The Per-
sistence of (Re) Vision,” offers Riegel’s
commentary on the biennial film festival
held in Karlovy Vary (Carlsbad) in Cze-
choslovakia. Riegel discusses more than
two dozen films, many entered by com-
munist nations including North Korea,
North Vietnam, Cuba, and Soviet Rus-
Sia.

Up the tub

 

Who do you call when you can’t get your
bathtub up on the roof? The fire depart-
ment, naturally. Actually, Washington and
Lee’s problem was a huge fishtank, design-
ed to provide a natural environment for the
flounder used by biology professor Cleve-
land P. Hickman, Jr., in his research into
the function of the kidney. Flounder are
perfectly suited to his work, since their
kidneys can function in a wide variety of
situations—equally well in salt water and
in fresh, for instance. Their old home was
a modest old plastic pool, and the fish were
. well, floundering in it. So a new, more
suitable habitat had to be brought in—but
not through the doors. A cooperative fire
department provided the unusual delivery
service to Dr. Hickman’s fourth-floor re-
search lab.

18

 

 

WeL

 

 

teeeees
a

OO ; a -
(bette tenet eens
BC

oa a

- . a
‘e

-
ste eee

7

- a

Soe te
teem reenter eee

|

7

fo.
7 aes

 

W&L 9—Lebanon Valley ........00000... 0
Wk&L 5—Roanoke ooo... ceeeceee. 0
WL FAVMI uieei ccc ccceec ccc cccccceeeeeeeeeeeees ]
W&L O—Lynchburg 2. 1
WL I—Madison o.oo... ccceceecce ccc. 3
WkL 2—Virginia Tech... l
WEL I-Navy ooo.cececccceeceeteeeteetee 3

The cross-country team had to over-
come a severe handicap, since last year’s
No. 1 runner and course record-holder,
co-captain Stu Nibley, was prevented by
injury from competing at all. But senior
co-captain Bill Kalal and others took
up the slack and led W&L to an over-
all winning record. During the year, vic-
tories were recorded over Davidson,
Lynchburg and Davis & Elkins, and the
Generals placed. fourth among eight
teams in the state meet. |

Along with Kalal, the W&L runners
were. led by sophomores Mike Burns,
Tem Washington and Jim McMenamin,

and several freshmen show real promise

The Naval Academy (light uniforms) won this game, but Generals took seven

20

for the future, including Austin Ball,
and Kirk Ruffin.
CROSS-COUNTRY RESULTS

W&L 15—Norfolk State ...........000000.0.... 50
W&L 15—Hampton Institute .............. 50
W&L 19—Christopher Newport .......... 42
W&L 40—Roanoke  .... ........ eee 21
W&L 40—Old Dominion .................... 2]
W&L 23—Lynchburg _ ......... ee 38

W&L 15—Virginia Wesleyan ................ 50

W&L 20—Christopher Newport. ........ 39
WEL BIRVMI onic ceceedeccccccccccccceeseecieeeseee 24
WL 27—Davidson ou... ec ce ese eee 28
W&L 32—Bridgewater .......0....ce 23
W&L 31—Madison _............000 eee 26
WkL 18—Davis & Elkins ....0.......0000.. 45
W&L 45—Eastern Mennonite ............ 20

In the winter sports of basketball,
swimming and wrestling, the prospects
are favorable in all three. Coach Verne
Canfield’s basketball team is young (only
two seniors) but should continue its

winning ways and will be after its eighth

Pee: *
cane ae ;

tl? ee

Straight winning season. The Generals
will be led by team captain Skip Licht-
fuss, who averaged 19.7 points a game last
year and already has gone over the
1,000-point mark in his career with one
season remaining.

Swimming coach Bill Stearns has six
of seven record-holders back and expects
to continue his stretch of winning sea-
sons. Last year, the Generals posted a
10-2
broke 14 school records and 15 confer-

season, won two championships,
ence marks. The top returnees include
Will Brotherton in the butterfly and
freestyler Bill ‘Tiers.

Wrestling has a new coach in Gary
Franke, and he inherits a veteran squad
of 10 lettermen who led the Generals
last year to their best record (13-5) in
many years. Top returnees include co-
captains Jim Stieff and Doug Ford and
conference champions Don Overdorff,
Lee Keck and Sam Lewis.

 

a ae C8 ly ee cies : ;

of 10 other soccer contests this fall.

 

a
SD
sos

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

The
dents for the divisions of the chapter
were’ also _ elected: Matthews A.
Griffith, 40, New York City; W. L. Web-
12, Upstate New York; Donald W.
Bourne, ’5l,
Wootton, Jr., 64, Connecticut; L. Roper
47, Long Island; and Paul
43, Westchester County.

treasurer. following vice _ presi-

ster,
New Jersey; E. Randolph

Shamhart,
E. Sanders,

RICHMOND. A
alumni joined for luncheon on Dec. 6 at

large number of
the Downtown Club to hear a talk by
Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of
English at W&L. Dr. Coulling’s speech
dealt with the history of Washington
and Lee from its beginning in 1749
through the years following the Civil
War and was enthusiastically received.
Bill Washburn, alumni secretary, accom-
panied Dr.

Coulling to the meeting.

Sam Dudley, ’58, chapter president, in-
troduced the new officers of the chap-
ter and outlined plans for future pro-
grams. The chapter expressed apprecia-
tion to Dudley for the program and
the excellent arrangements for the

luncheon meeting.

WASHINGTON, D.C. Members of the
chapter were in a festive mood as they
gathered on Dec. 28 for a holiday lunch-
eon at the Army-Navy Club. Robert J.
Frost, Jr.,
of the chapter president, J. J. Smith, ’60.

68, presided in the absence

Frost praised the group for the large
attendance and for their role in bring-
ing to the luncheon one of the biggest
groups of prospective W&L students in
recent years. Ihe principal speaker was
Bill
head football coach. He was accompanied

McHenry, athletic director and

by Boyd Williams,
coach,

football
and Bill Washburn, alumni sec-
retary. McHenry’s remarks about W&L’s
athletic program were directed to the

assistant

prospective students and were warmly
received by everyone present. He stress-
ed the need for alumni support in the
recruitment of student-athletes. During
a short business session, Arthur C. Smith,
Jr., ’41, reported for the nominating
committee, and the following new of-
ficers were named: Robert J. Frost, Jr.,
president; A. Michael (Mickey) Philipps,
’64, vice president; Donald W. Sigmund,
59, treasurer. Frost paid special tri-
bute to Arthur Smith, who had served as
treasurer for many years. He also recog-
nized Madison Coe, "15, who represent-
ed the oldest class at the luncheon. Ad-
best

around for the New Year.

journment brought wishes all

 

Chapter Correspondents

56, 714 Arl-
201
Arkansas—Edward D. Briscoe, Jr., ’'59, 17
Edgehill, Little Rock, Ark. 72207
Atlanta—J. D. Humphries, III, ’66, 1045 Hurt
Building, Atlanta, Ga. 30303
Augusta-Rockingham—William B. Gunn, ’42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801
Baltimore—Randy H. Lee, ’69, 119-E. Ver-
sailles Circle, Towson, Maryland 21204
Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr., ’63, 15
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213
Charleston—Louie A, Paterno, Jr., ’65, 1401
Somerlayton Road, Charleston, W. Va. 25314
Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, ’°52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, N.C. 28207
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ’51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Ill. 60187
Cleveland—FPeter M. Weimer ’63, 10813 Music
Street, Newbury, Ohio 44065
Cumberland Valley—Albert A. Radcliffe, ’37,
145 Fairview Ave., Frederick, Md. 21701
Danville—Judge F. Nelson Light, °’52, Route
No. 2, Box 49-A, Chatham, Va. 24531
Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
°68, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601
Gulf Stream—A. J.

Appalachian—Jimmy D. Bowie,
ington Avenue, Bristol, Va. 24

Barranco, ’64, Suite 1004

Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,
Fla. 33130
Houston—William B. Ogilvie, Jr., ’64, 7519
Del Monte, Houston, Texas 77042
Jacksonville—John G. McGiffin, III, ’63, 4114

McGirts Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32201

22

Kansas City—William N. Leedy, ’49, 814

Westover Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113
Louisville—John C. Norman Jr., ’64, 118
Travois Road, Louisville, Kentucky 40207
Lynchburg—Robert C. Wood III, 62, 4720
woe Road, Lynchburg, Virginia
Mid-South—Jerome Turner, ’64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr., ’64, 204 Walsh-
wood, Mobile, Ala. 36604

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, ’33, 2134 Rose-
mont Drive, Montgomery, Ala. 36111

New England—John P. Mello, ’72, 37 Brook-
ley Road, Boston, Mass. 02130

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., ’50, P.O.
Box 729, Slidell, La. 70258

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ’16,
Drawer 60, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York—James O. Mathews, ’70, 1st Nat’l
San Bk., 399 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

1002

Norfolk—Peter A. Agelasto, III, ’62, 1300
United Va. Bk. Bldg., Norfolk, Va. 23510
North Texas—David Carothers, ’61, 5532 Park
Lane, Dallas, Texas 75220

Northern California—Paul R. Speckman, Jr.,
"57, 1568 Lilac Lane, Mountain View, Cali-
fornia 94040

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., ’63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-
stein, °53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Holly-
wood, Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling,
Dowling, Sanders and Dukes, Box
Beaufort, S.C. 29902

Peninsula—Dr. B. Voss Neal, ’51, 321 Main
Street, Newport News, Va. 23601
Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’°68, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Theodore G. Rich, Jr., °58, 226
W, Rittenhouse Square No. 2810, Philadel-
phia, Pa. 19103

P.edmont—Walter Hannah, ’50, 5100 Laurinda
Drive, Greensboro, N.C. 274 410

Richmond—Samuel C. Dudley, ’58, 100 Charn-
wood Road, Richmond, Va. 23229

Roanoke—William S. Hubard, ’50, Shenan-
doah Life Ins. Co., Roanoke, Va. 24010

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree, III, ’59, P.O.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450

San Antonio—Allan G. Paterson, ’64, 324
Ridgemont, San Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Andrew W. Baur, ’67, 20 Foxboro,
St. Louis, Mo. 63124

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, ’41, P. Drawer 4106, Station B,
Anderson, S.C. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
53, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Stanley Hooker, Jr.,
Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Tulsa—Neal McNeill, 50, 3724 South Florence,
Tulsa, Okla. 74105

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, °43, 507
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—Robert J. Frost, Jr., °68, 8402
Hartford Ave., Silver Springs, Md. 20910

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, ’62, 3010
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Greenville, Wilmington, Delaware 19807

Wel

"39, 1185

 

 

 

 

 

| January, 1974

 

tion and Genta and B

 

   

 

Aciaee Thaenniye Co. in chicago for | 15
years, is now retired and lives in Le
mit, Mo. os :

 

y hed
Its ‘Crystal | Chemistry,

Miss: ss ppt: Retail ‘Merchants !
Dae been awarded the Boy Silver -

   

   

    

am

Jamestown
ayare of merit “from t

‘tal research at Oh State. University, ‘has

been ‘invited 1 by. the ‘Centre National de la_

- Recherche Pa eee to. attend a confer-
ane la

geil’ manager oF a ‘large a ref
. for - Nevonal Sugar cane Co.

 

   
 
     
        
    
 
     
 
 
   
    
 
 

WALTER T. LAWSON is ‘director, of
at Hartley House, a settlement house
York’s Hell’s Kitchen area. He is als
of the Ethical ° a Northern W

 

  

  

rier. .

 
 

tes, ana advertising agency in
pis — firm received the firs

 
 

 
     
   
    
 
 

  

 

 

 

H. M. Weed, ’42

Exploration Co. In 1958, he joined the Ana-
conda Sales Co. and was elected its presi-
dent in 1963 and a corporate vice president
in 1966. Weed is a director of several com-
panies including the Chemical Bank Inter-
national, Kawecki Berylco, Inc., and a num-
ber of Anaconda subsidiaries.

1944

BENJAMIN P. BROWN, JR., gave up the general
practice of law in July, 1973, and is now
senior vice president and trust officer of the
Union Trust National Bank of Parkersburg,

W.Va.
1945

CHARLES S. Rowe, editor and copublisher of
the Fredericksburg, Va. Free Lance-Star, has
been elected as regent chairman of the As-
sociated Press Managing Editors Association.

1946

FRANCIS G. ApbpISON, III, has become chief
executive officer of the Union Trust Co. of

Washington, D. C., the city’s fifth largest.

bank. He has been president for three years.
Addison joined the barik in 1960 as vice presi-
dent, was named senior vice president in
1969, and executive vice president the follow-
ing year. He is a past president of the D. C.
Bankers Association.

1949

Robert L. ADAMS is employed by U.S. Office
of Education as loan specialist. He is in-
volved in the construction financing of
higher education facilities.

1950

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN is with the Foreign
Service of the U. S. Information Agency.
Currently he is with the American Embassy,
The Hague, as public affairs counselor. He
and his wife have four children.

W. RAy HOFFMAN, Jr., is past president of
Goodwill Industries of Alabama. He and his
wife have three children.

JOHN Lee Hopkins has been practicing law
in Rocky Mount, Va., for 17 years. He and
his wife have two sons.

Bruce F. WoopruF¥, JR., is associated with
Marshall Realty Co., Inc., of Atlanta. The
firm deals in all types of real estate but
specializes in investment property.

24

195]

O. DAvip KULMAN is owner of the Kulman
Brokerage Co., a manufacturer’s sales agency
in Atlanta. He was recently promoted to
colonel in the U. S. Air Force Reserve. He is
assigned as an Air Force liaison officer to
Federal Regional Center I, Maynard, Mass.
Kulman and his wife, the former Marjorie
Wolf, have three daughters.

Poe

RoBerT J. GOODMAN has a general insurance
agency in Clifton Park, N.Y. He is also on
the Central School District Board of Educa-
tion and Saratoga and Warren Counties
Board of Cooperation Education.

1956

RENO S. Harp, III, is deputy attorney gen-
eral of Virginia in charge of the Criminal
Division. He is also regional vice president
of South East Region of the National As-
sociation of Extradition Officials. Harp also
is a member of the committee of the Vir-
ginia State Crime Commission that is study-
ing capital punishment, regulation of the
private security industry, and laws relating
to the confiscation of automobiles.

1957

Joun B. Howarp, an attorney in Baltimore,
has recently been elected to the board of
governors of the Maryland State Bar Associa-
tion for 1973-74. He was also recently ap-
pointed to the Advisory Board of the First
National Bank of Maryland.

H. MERRILL PLAIsTED, III, vice president and
director of Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., Real-
tors, has been elected president of the Vir-
ginia Chapter of Industrial Realtors. The
Virginia society is composed of real estate
people throughout the state who specialize in
selling and leasing land and buildings to in-
dustry. Plaisted joined Thalhimer, Inc. in
1960. In addition to his position with the
State association, he was recently named vice
president of the Richmond Board of Real-
tors. He is active in many community serv-
ice organizations including the Big Brothers
and the Boy Scouts of America.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. HUFFARD, a
son, Haynes Harrison, on July 27, 1973. The
family now consists of three children and
lives in Carrollton, Ga.

Dr. WATSON G. WATRING has received many
recognitions. Among them are diplomate of
the American Board of Obstetrics and Gyne-
cology, and fellow of the American College
of Obstetricians and Gynecologists. Also he
is an assistant professor of gynecology at
UCLA Medical School, and a consultant to
the City of Hope National Medical Center.

PAGE D. CRANFORD, vice president and coun-
sel of Fidelity American Bankshares, Inc., has
been promoted to senior vice president and
secretary. Cranford is a member of the bars
of the State of Maryland and of the District
of Columbia. He is also a member of the
American Bar Association, the Federal Bar
Association and the American Society for
Public Administration. Before joining Fidel-
ity American in 1972, Cranford was regional
administrator of National Banks, Office of
the U. S. Comptroller of the Currency in
Richmond.

THOMAS F. KING, JR., is president of Barnett-
Winston Investment Trust, a real estate in-
vestment trust specializing in income pro-
ducing property. He is also president of Bar-
nett-Winston Investment Counselors. Both
organizations have headquarters in Jackson-

ville, Fla.
1959

JOHN SCHENKEL is marketing manager for
Springfield Wire, Inc., in Springfield, Mass.

Jesse H. WEBB, JR., has received the designa-
tion of chartered financial analyst. He is
currently senior vice president of Barnett In-
vestment Service, Inc., a subsidiary of Bar-
nett Banks of Florida.

Dr. JOSEPH B. STEVENS, after graduation from
Yale Medical School and Harvard’s School
of Public Health, is now in private practice
of psychiatry in San Antonio, Texas.

THOMAS M. SCHMIDT is department chairman
in theatre arts at Oklahoma College of Lib-
eral Arts in Oklahoma City. He is also artist
director of the Warehouse Theatre, an ex-
perimental theatre.

RICHARD A. POWELL is a teacher of seventh
grade English and high school reading im-
provement at Roger B. Chaffee High School,
U. S. Naval Air Station, in Bermuda.

1960

Dr. W. E. KNICKERBOCKER, JR., Was a visiting
lecturer for the Memphis Theological Semi-
nary Lectures sponsored by the alumni as-

WeL

 

      
       
     

faculty of the seminary v
by the Memphis Confe the United
Methodist Church. ‘He earned his “Phi D. de-

DR. _Janers SAGNER is. | now 0

     

- ginia” Hospital. ‘He |
daughter and a son.
join the ear, nose, aroat

erm —_Jenborn, Cole, and Gray mi
Ce. ive ee ee

sect Teacher Education.

  
 
  

gree at Emery Un

         
    
 
     
   
 

 

rently president of th
Avene and is t dir

mission of | C ame | r N
limits the hunting se

   
   

vite Stuart, have t two | c

January, 1974

       

and general manager of Gregory Manufac-

turing Co. in Jackson, Miss., a manufacturer

of wood products for rubber stamps.

JAMES M. SLAY, JR., has recently left the Anne
- Arundel County State’s Attorney Office and
joined the Governor of Maryland’s staff as
assistant to the Secretary of State. He will,
however, maintain his private law office in
Annapolis.

Dr. KIAH T. Forp, III, has finished his resi-
dency in radiology at Tripler Hospital in
Honolulu. He is now fulfilling his military
obligation assignment at Ft. Belvoir, Va. He
and his wife have two sons.

MAx L. SHAPIRA is vice president of Heaven
Hill Distillers, Inc., makers of bourbon whis-
key. He is married to the former Ellen
Hirsch; they live in Louisville, Ky., with
their daughter.

GEORGE W. Price, III, is in real estate devel-
opment in Spartanburg, S. C. He currently
-is manager for development of a condomin-
ium community. He and his wife, Betty,
have one child.

E. MAson McGow1n, JR., owns and operates
several businesses in Point Clear, Ala. He
and his wife, the former Susan Elliot Mc-
Lean, have a daughter and a son.

1966

MARRIED: Joun C. Yost to Mary Ralph
Lowe on Aug. 25, 1973 in Ft. Worth, Tex.

NATHAN V. HENnprIckKs, III, is senior partner
in the Atlanta law firm of Redfern, Butler,
Aiken and Morgan. He was selected to serve
a three-year term on the Young Men’s
Roundtable of the High Museum of Art.
Hendricks is also a member of the singing
group, the Huff’n Puffs.

Tom R. KELsey is practicing law in Hous-
ton, Tex. He and his wife, Ann, have a son
and daughter.

CLYDE H. FOsHEE, JR., is practicing law in
Louisville, Ky. He is married to the former
Elizabeth Updegraff and they have one son.

HENRY RICHARD Levy, after five years with
Macy’s in New York, has moved back to
Louisville, Ky., and has joined the family
retail clothing business, Levy Bros., in a
managerial capacity. He was married in Oc-
tober, 1972.

C. GANAHL WALKER, III, employed by Hew-
26

lett-Packard Co., is now manager of finance
and personnel functions for Field Emission
Corp., a manufacturer of medical, scientific,
and industrial X-ray equipment recently ac-
quired by Hewlett-Packard. He and his wife,
Wick, live in McMinnville, Ore.

1967

HUBERT H. YOUNG, JR., after discharge from
the Navy Judge Advocate General’s Corps, is
now practicing law in Dallas, Tex. He and
his wife have one son.

1969

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GREGORY E. PARKER, a
son, Matthew Gregory, on Aug. 21, 1973, at
Camp Lejeune, N. C., Naval Hospital. After
serving three years as a Marine Corps supply
and fiscal officer, Parker is now with Man-
agement Sciences Department of the Wa-
chovia Bank and Trust Co., Winston-Salem,
N.C.

WILLIAM E. WINTER is in the private prac-
tice of law in Gaffney, S.C.

CAPTAIN ROBERT E. HARRISON is stationed at
Fort Knox, Ky., with the Army Judge Advo-
cate General’s Corps. He is an instructor in
business law at the University of Kentucky
on a part-time basis. Recently the Univer-
sity of Louisville Family Law Journal, pub-
lished his article entitled ‘““The Uniform Con-
sumer Credit Code and the Low-Income Con-
sumer.”

NATHAN V. HEnpricks, III (see 1966)

HuBerT H. YOuNG, JR. (See 1967)

1970

MARRIED: DEAN Kumpuris to Mary Rich-
ardson McNair, on Nov. 24, 1973, in Fayette-
ville, Ark. Kumpuris is in medical school at
Emory University. The couple will live in
Atlanta, Ga.

MARRIED: HEnry A. FLEISHMAN to Virginia
W. Masters on Aug. 31, 1973. Fleishman is
curently a senior at Emory University Medi-
cal School in Atlanta and expects next year
to do an internship in surgery.

DubDLEY HENCHELS is the proprietor of the
Last-Shot-of-Whiskey-in-Twenty-Miles Saloon
in Breckenridge, Colo.

JosepH ‘IT. Lykes, III, on assignment with
Lykes Brothers Steamship Co. Inc. as opera-
lions assistant in Antwerp since 1971, has re-

cently been assigned to the post of special
representative in Tokyo. Lykes began his
training with the Lykes organization during
summer vacations in 1965 and joined the
management training program on a full-time
basis in 1970.

HENRY HILLs, after completing his alter-
native service requirement at the University
of Colorado Medical Center in Denver, spent
some time travelling in Europe. He also at-
tended the W. B. Yeats Summer School in
Sligo, Ireland. He is currently attending
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond.

GILBERT J. EATON is currently commander of
an Army Bomb Disposal Unit in Cologne,

Germany.
197]

JAMEs M. SLAy, Jr., (See 1965)

1972

MARRIED: WILLIAM WADE PEERY to Martha
Elizabeth Van Dyke on June 23, 1973, in
Tazewell, Va. Attending the wedding were
Lucius Clay, John Muncks, Curt Jamison,
Mr. and Mrs. Charles Brown, Robert Har-
rold, Collin Eagles, Andy Wright, and Gib-
son Wright. Peery is in his second year at
the University of Virginia Medical School.

CHARLES P. COMLY is associated with the
real estate and development firm of Andrews
and Pinkstone, Inc. He lives in Villanova,
Pa.

ROBERT LOCKHART was awarded a certificate
of distinction in the Virginia Photographers
‘73 program, sponsored by the Virginia Mu-
seum of Fine Arts.

Max F. BRANTLEY is a general assignments
reporter for the Arkansas Gazette in Little
Rock. He is also the Arkansas correspondent
for the New Times magazine.

ENSIGN PETER M. SOMERVILLE is a Navy navi-
gator and is assigned to ferrying aircraft.
He is stationed in Norfolk.

1973

MARRIED: JOHN A. NEHRING to Janice Ann
Eckroth on Aug. 18, 1973. They now live in
Manheim, Pa.

JAMEs E. PATTERSON is practicing law in
Ellsworth, Me. He receives many court ap-
pointments to defend indigents.

Lr. NicHOLaAs P. GRANT is presently stationed

WeL

        

 

 

  
     
      
    

 

— a terms | as Sp
o. oe Sema and

   

 

 

 

oe ELDON K. — reti in
7 ogi — Lewis ©

 
 

  

 

The Alumni Office has no address for the alumni
listed below. Please check the list carefully, and if you
know the whereabouts of any of these lost alumni, send
the information to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. Thank you. Additional lists

of unlocated alumni will be published later.

Henry E. Guerriero, Jr., 48
John G. Guthrie, ’61
Robert L. Guyer, 55
Lewis L. Haas, 34

Mark G. Haeberle, 65
James D. Hague, Jr., ’59
Peter E. Haiman, ’60
Thomas J. Hale, ’08
Larry D. Hall, ’52
Reginald Y. S. Hallett, ’50
Herbert L. Hamilton, 94
James C. Hamilton, ’43
Alvin M. Hammel, ’27
Lynn R. Hammond, III, ’64
Joseph Hanaway, ’55
George G. Hancock, Jr., ’60
John L. Hancock, ’37
Cary J. Hansel, Jr., ’67
Richard Harding, ’44
Frederick G. Harmon, °53
Owen G. Harned, Jr., 56
William P. Harper, ’25
Pinckney Harral, ’29
Henson C. Harrell, ’27
Calvin T. Harrington, ’65
Elliott B. Harris, ’25
Glenn S. Harris, ’72

John T. Harris, ’06
Alfred Harrison, ’61
John L. Harrison, ’16
Ben Harvey, ITI, ’11
Leonard L. Harvey, ’35
Ernest W. Harwood, 718
Stewart A. Hatch, ’36
Donald D. Hawkins, ’07
Himman B. Hawks, ’43
Charles G. Hayden, Jr., °59
Jesse R. Hayes, ’37
William G. Haynes, ’51
Peter M. Hazell, ’45
Nelson H. Head, ’68
James J. Heatley, ’35
Harry E. Heinitsh, III, ’58
Arthur M. Helfat, ’32
Joseph Hellen, Jr., ’25
Stephen M. Henkin, ’68
Michael A. Henry, ’62
Raymond W. Henry, ’51
Erwin O. Hentz, Jr., 55
Richard M. Herman, ’63
John A. Herring, 711, ’51

28

Oscar H. Herring, ’11
Alva L. Herzog, ’06
Charles R. Hess, II, 58
John C. Heuer, ’32
Massillon M. Heuser, ’29
Wallace M. Heuser, 54
Henry J. Heymann, ’56
William T. Higgins, 17
William L. Hilton, Jr., ’65
Walter Fj Hindry, ’21
Lewis P. Hinton, ’23
Charles C. Hobson, ’°57
John A. Hoeser, ’50
Kaam M. Hoh, ’27

Barry L. Holcomb, ’66
Gerold I. Holen, 751
Francis A. Hollingsworth, ’06
William N. Holloway, Jr., ’29
John B. Holt, ’60

Samuel G. Holt, 712
Anton E. Homsey, Jr., 57
Clifton R. Hood, ’44
John E. Hopkins, ’60
Jacob M. Horn, ’13

Guy F. Horton, ’23
Walter K. Horton, Jr., ’26
Alan G. Hoskins, ’40
Gordon W. Hostetter, ’38
Maxwell B. Hostetter, ’34
Henry B. Houck, ’29
Herndon A. Houston, 794
John A. Houston, 33
Thomas E. Houston, ’46
Glenn W. Howard, ’23
Harold H. Howard, ’29
Merton T.. Howard, ’39
Wilbur B. Howell, ’29
Charles B. Howry, Jr., ’06
John C. Hudgins, ’02
Robert D. Hudson, ’34
William H. Hudson, ’91
Robert G. Hundley, 713, 715
Robert K. Hunt, ’26
Russell A. Hunter, ’23
William H. Hunter, ’35

- Philip C. Huntley, ’35

Bruce L. Huntwork, ’51
Mason M. Hurd, 719
William D. Hurley, ’65
Robert J. Jaber, ’57
Thomas M. Jack, ’93

Do you know where
these alumni are?

Ralph H. Jackson, 47
Benjamin R. Jacobs, ’63
Rolly W. Jacobs, ’68
Robert S. Jaster, ’45
Edwin L. Jean, ’36

James T. Jenkins, ’29
Joseph E. Jenkins, ITI, ’68
John L. Jennings, Jr., 730
William H. Jennings, '17
Leigh H. Johns, ’08
Alexander S. Johnson, ’23
Bernard F. Johnson, ’33
Clarke B. Johnson, ’99
Frederick K. Johnson, ’58
George Johnson, ’98
George C. Johnson, ’19
Leslie H. Johnson, ’55
Sidney F. Johnston, ’24
Albert S. Jones, ’33
Ashbury W. Jones, ’69
Orlando T. Jones, Jr., 05
Robinson C. Jones, III, ’47
Wayland D. Jones, ’69
Arthur M. Joseph, ’48
Peter N. Junggren, ’72
Irvin Karlin, ’34
Jefferson R. Kean, ’53
Charles M. Keeling, ’44
Artus A. Keener, ’10
John F. Keener, ’11
James C. Kellam, ’18
William P. Kellam, Jr., ’50
Fred Keller, ’15

Albert C. Kelley, ’23
Robert E. Kelley, ’55
Warren N. Kelley, ’29
Brian R. Kelly, ’67
Donald G. Kelly, 716
James W. Kelly, ’81
Francis D. Kendall, ’25
Jacob Kerneklian, ’51
George R. Kerr, 718
William P. Kesel, Jr., ’39
Willard C. Kidd, ’21
John A. Kiely, ’63
George H. Kim, Jr., 58
James B. Kimbrough, ’33
Arnold S. King, ’34

Carl King, ’42

George D. King, Jr., 58, 63
Norris S. Kirk, ’27

Hugh H. Kirkpatrick, Jr., ’25
Conway N. Kitchen, ’17
Estes B. Kizer, ’11

Harry E. Klein, ’14

John W. Kline, 730
David C. Knight, ’62
Douglas S. Knox, ’68
Stephen. H Koleszar, ’68
Charles L. Krebs, ’10

Thomas M. Krook, ’62
Leon E. Kuhn, ’96
William B. Kuykendall, ’25
John A. Lackmann, ’69
John P. Laimbeer, Jr., 67
William B. Laing, ’31
Donald W. Laird, ’34
Duval C. Lake, ’24

F. Lamar Lamb, ’65
Edgar R. Lane, ’26
John S. Lane, ’50
Samuel M. Lane, ’20
Carney G. Laslie, Jr., ’35
Edward L. Lasuhell, ’12
Earle S. Lathrop, III, ’67
Alexander C. Law, ’09
James E. Law, ’57

James F. Lawson, ’01
George A. Leavitt, ’51
Gregori Lebedev, ’65
James F. Ledbetter, ’65
Edward W. Lee, ’38
John W. Lee, ’01

Walter H. Lee, ’45

Yen C. Lee, 718

Stephen L. Leech, 63
Charles C. Leidy, ’56

Ira Lemmon, 712

James L. Leonard, ’97
Lester C. Leonard, Jr., 50
James W. Lett, 54
Andrew L. Lewis, ’27
Jesse E. Lewis, ’11
Lorenzo C. Lewis, ’40
Michael L. Lewis, ’66
Thomas M. Lewis, 44
David P. Lindecamp, ’62
George W. Lindsey, ’07
Edward D. Line, ’57
William R. Linton, 50
Morgan E. Lipps, ’03
William D. Livengood, ’50
Hilton W. Long, ’15
James H. Loving, ’49
Clayton R. Lowe, ’30
Atherton C. Lowry, ’61
Richard K. Ludwig, ’29
Christian A. Luhnow, ’55
Jose A. Luina, ’42

James M. Lykes, III, ’60
Thomas H. Lyle, ’25
Robert H. Lynn, ’46
Harvey M. Mabry, ’24
Frank R. MacElvain, ’53
Jan R. MacKenzie, ’63
John D. MacLaurin, ’65
Fred C. MacSorley, ’54

Robert H. Madden, ’34
Thomas M. Madison, ’53
Leon E. Magnus, ’43

WeL

 

 

 

Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays _ .

 

The Rockbridge Chapter of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, by authority of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is offering these
handsome ice buckets and trays for sale to raise
funds for the University. Manufactured by the
Bacova Guild, they are made of durable fiber glass
and bear the Washington and Lee crest in full
color. The ice buckets have hand-rubbed maho-
gany tops. All profit from sale of these items goes
to the scholarship fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14. Income from the fund helps worthy
students attend Washington and Lee.

THE PRICES:

Large ice bucket (three gallons) $45.00 plus $2
handling and postage.

Small ice bucket (five quarts) $37.50 plus $2 handling
and postage.

Big tray, (16x21) $15.00 plus $1 handling and postage.
Small snack tray (12x17) $10 plus $1 handling and
postage.

 

Use Order Form Below:

ROCKBRIDGE CHAPTER—W&L
P.O. Box 948
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me the items checked below. Make
checks payable to Rockbridge Chapter—WeL.

[ ] Large ice bucket, $45.00 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Small ice bucket, $37.50 each plus $2 handling
‘and postage.

[ ] Big tray, $15.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.
[ ] Snack tray, $10.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.

Aina... cl... CC

City and Stale ie TAO es
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

Payment of $..0.0.52.... is enclosed.

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

RY
THE MCCORMICK LONI
WASHINGTON & ©
LEXINGTON VA
24450

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $32.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-]ACKSON HousE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

+
:

 

 

|
{

