the alumni magazine of washington and lee universi JANUARY 1980

<
z
<
a
<
ee
wi
~
“
wi
x
Vv
<
z

THE HECKMAN BINDERY, INC.

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 55, Number 1, January 1980

William C. Washburn, "40 ...............c ccc ceceesea cues Editor

Romulus T. Weatherman .................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ...............cccceceeeees Associate Editor
M. Gray Coleman, 79 ...............000.c000 ee Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ......... ccc ccc ccc ccc e cece eens Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ............ cc ccccceeececeeeeeueuseseeeees Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Mock Convention Retrospective ..............000060- 1
The 1924 Davis Convention ....................:0eeees 4
Elephants on Parade ................csccececeeeeeeeeeees 5
Error Vanquished .................cscececeeeeeeeeeeeess 6
1980 Convention Outlook ...................ccceeeeeees 7
Honor for Stuart ..............cccccecceeeeeceeeeeeeeeeees 8
An Appreciation ..............ccceeceeecceeseeeeceeeeeeees 9
‘Thoughts on the Road to B.V. ..............c0c0eeees 10
WL Gazette ....... ccc ccc ccc eeceeeneeeenneeeeees 12
Fall Sports Report .............cccececeeececeeeeeeeeeueess 17
Chapter NewS ............ccccccecceseseesecesueeesesesees 19
Class Notes ..........ccccececcceeeeeeceeeeeeeeeesnensenens 22
In Memoriam ...............cccccescceseeeceeeseeaeeaeenss 27

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
President

RICHARD A. DENNY, 52, Atlanta, Ga.
Vice President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va. |
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD Bain, 49, Spartanburg, S. C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.

PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.

G. RUSSELL LApDD, 57, Mobile, Ala.
JoHN H. MCCORMACK JR., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.

PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

ef

ON THE COVER: The basketball arena of Warner
Center was crowded with enthusiastic student
delegates for the 1976 Mock Democratic Convention.
And the time is drawing nigh for another such political
exercise—May 9 and 10—this year to choose the
“right” Republican presidential candidate. Articles on
the first seven pages of this issue set the stage. And re-
member: Spring Class Reunions coincide this year
with the Mock Convention. Photograph by Sally
Mann.

 

 

by M. Gray Coleman, ’79

Assistant Director of Publications

‘Biggest and Boomingest

Impartiality Informs W&L’s Mock Convention, But It Didn’t Start Out That Way

Of all the events which receive
extensive publicity and media attention at
Washington and Lee, no one can argue
with the fact that, ever since its inception
in 1908, the Mock Convention has been
the granddaddy of them all. Dozens of
campuses can boast a presidential
prediction poll, and W&L’s version,
opulent though it may be, isn’t even the
oldest of such exercises; Oberlin’s goes all
the way back to Civil War days. So what is
it that makes our Mock Convention stand
out?

Why, accuracy and research. Of
course.

Correct 11 times in 16 attempts at
predicting the presidential nominee of the
political party out of executive power at
the time, the Mock Convention has made it
known—with increasing fervor—that it is
in no respect a popularity contest or mere
campus poll. Acknowledging the fact that no
college campus can fairly be regarded as a
cross-section of the voting public, Mock
Convention participants carry their
research out into the grass-roots political
world of each state, putting personal
preferences aside for the duration.

The results speak for themselves. Since
1948, the student politicos have been
incorrect only one time—eight years ago,
when they gave the convention nod to
Edward Kennedy instead of George
McGovern. And they made up for that
mistake with a vengeance in 1976,
correctly predicting both Jimmy Carter
and Walter Mondale as the eventual
Democratic standard-bearers, the first
time any serious attempt had been made
to pick the right man for vice president.
(Maybe it’s the growing responsibilities
connected with a job once considered only
a political spoil to be handed out to a
prime competitor. Lots of prestige, but
pretty short on power.)

Recently, Time went on the record
saying that the Mock Convention was the
“biggest and boomingest” of all such
affairs; Newsweek countered by naming it

divided and scaled down in exact
proportion to their real-life counterparts
some months later, of course. Floor
managers and platform fights, always. But
impartiality from the students? As a
student of the early ‘teens would say,
“Hell no! . . . sir.” Pushing personal
preference out of the way was one bug in
the system that took a few years to
eliminate.

The convention—first announced to
the public by an excited Ring-tum Phi in
April, 1908—offered “an exceptional
opportunity to all students of the
University to see just how a national
convention is conducted and [to
bring] before their attention the issues
of the present campaign.” It is a promise
that continues to be fulfilled three
generations later. But note the
newspaper s next sentence: “All students
are urged to arouse interest in the
convention and to work in behalf of their
favorite candidate.”

With that statement as its philosophy,
it was a foregone conclusion that the
convention would be of Democratic
sentiment. Anyone whose acquaintance
with W&L is strictly post-Eisenhower,
shall we say, may find it difficult to
believe, but the fact remains that the
campus was once as solidly Democratic as
the rest of the South. (This characteristic
proved to be a major stumbling block to
convention accuracy, if not the greatest
one of all.)

William Jennings Bryan, already a two-
time loser for the real-life Democrats,
had just spoken in Lexington—firing the
students with enthusiasm and making the
Silver Standard-bearer a major contender
for the W&L nomination. And as the
opening Mock Convention session
on May 4 approached, only Gov. John A.
Johnson of Minnesota possessed sufficient
political force to have even a chance at
stemming the Bryan tide.

After three days, friction was high
between the rival groups—and soon there

“the most realistic” of the myriad mock | * developed a situation that would send

conventions in the nation. ? ae | today’s scientific predictors into nervous
But it wasn't always that way. 5 ; ta trauma. When the roll call reached
Convention atmosphere and The setting of the 1976 Mock Convention in Kansas, a fight broke out on the floor.

excitement, yes indeed. Delegations Warner Center. Floor fights of course are typical, if not

      

‘memory of |

lis Party,

the lick

 

Stick . . . the Forgiveness of Political
Actions, the resurrection of Presidential
ambitions, and the Third Term,
everlasting. Amen, amen, amen.”

The convention was called to order on
May 4, and tempers raged again—
especially over the seating of delegates.
Fraud was alleged against the Missouri
delegation, Clark’s home state; it seems
that proxies had been called in from all
over western Virginia to throw the
delegation to Clark from Wilson. The
Wilson men protested, but in vain. The
chairman ruled them out of order, and as
the session ended, he was reported
disappearing “down the road.”

Balloting began the next morning, with
Wilson in the lead—a position he retained
through four roll calls, but without
reaching the two-thirds majority necessary
for nomination in those days. Wilson’s men
then attempted to have the two-thirds rule
abolished; no dice, came the reply from
Clark’s partisans. And so, on the fifth
ballot, Gov. Harmon was officially
nominated—starting a stampede when
New York and Pennsylvania jumped on his
bandwagon. It was an unfortunate move,
as things turned out. Wilson got the
convention bid in Baltimore, and defeated

 

The Colorado float played up a skiing Coors
can in the Mock Convention parade of 1976.

Taft in November of that year—ending 16
years of Republican rule. No doubt the
students consoled themselves with that
fact as the year closed.

By 1916, with Wilson as a popular
incumbent, the Ring-tum Phi
acknowledged that “the Democratic
nomination is a matter of apparently no
doubt.” What were the students to do?

Finally, after weeks of discussion, they
came to a cataclysmic decision—W&L
would hold a Republican convention,
where the outcome would be more in
doubt. That year’s Phi editor—eager to
disassociate himself from possible
conclusions that a mass political conversion
had swept the University—hurried
through an apology of sorts, noting that the
switch was “just to make things
interesting.”

As the delegations began to form, the
records show that S. M. B. Coulling (then
a third-year law student; uncle of W&L’s
current English department head, Sidney
Coulling) sat on the organizational
committee. The press also reported that
Rupert N. Latture, then a senior and
recent co-founder of ODK, was to serve as
“chairman of the platform committee to
fight for the prohibition feature.”

 

Former President Harry S Truman was the
keynote speaker at the Convention of 1960.

As it turned out, the prohibition of
“demon rum” was one of the two major
platform issues that year—along with
womens suffrage. The great verbal battles
came here, with Alabama reporting it was
“inclined to scoff at the idea of
prohibition,” and Kentucky’s banner

proclaiming “Pretty Girls Don’t Care To

Vote.” It may be needless to add that both
planks were ripped from the platform.

The balloting that followed may have
been confused—political fortunes
skyrocketed on one roll call, only to
collapse on the next—but for the first
time, there is no record of a major fracas
on the convention floor.

Things moved pretty smoothly—and
here lies the key to the greatest turning
point in Mock Convention annals. The
campus was still overwhelmingly
Democratic in sentiment; none of the
Republicans in question were personal
favorites with the students-at-large. It’s
even doubtful whether they knew a great
deal about the campaign positions of the
dozen G.O.P nominees before the
convention.

So—for the first time, it seems—the
students saw the need for actual research.
(And objectivity was a foregone conclusion;
the students didn’t want any of the
Republicans to win in November.)

Impartial research may have been born
in a strange fashion, but it worked from
then on. Charles Evans Hughes, Supreme
Court Justice, was drafted on the sixth
ballot—another correct prediction for the
students at W&L.

And once that precedent was set, it
stuck. Mock Conventions from that time
on have been designed for the party out of
the White House. With a few exceptions,
excess frivolity is no longer a major
problem. (One of those rare cases occurred
in 1936, when Arthur Vandenburg’s
nomination hinged on the Pennsylvania
vote— ‘finally decided in his favor by an
errant delegate brought in from the tennis
courts.) The excitement is there, and will
always play a major part, but under the
flags and confetti lies a depth of research
nobody at the time might have imagined
evolving from William Jennings Bryan’s
Chautauqua visit back in 1908.

M

>

on

te S

 

ri

Favo

«<

toa

          

e

evotio

and D

        

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

plea for harmony from the permanent
chairman of the convention, the Texas,
Ohio, and Connecticut delegates
temporarily ‘withdrew’ from the
convention, throwing the entire
assemblage into an uproar. After a heated
discussion, the insurgent faction
reappeared on the floor of the assembly.
On the next ballot the Hon. John W.
Davis received the required [two-thirds]
majority and the results of the ballot were
greeted with mad applause.”

The W&L newspaper immediately
went on the defensive. After all, before
the convention the editor had grandly
proclaimed that “the world is waiting for
Washington and Lee to nominate the

winning candidate.” And whom had they
chosen? An alumnus, a former teacher, a
current member of the Board of Trustees.
Still, to the students he was “the biggest
man of the times,” and interested—if
skeptical—eyes waited and shifted their
gaze to New York.

If the Mock Convention had seemed
strange and rather absurd, going on for 23
ballots as it did, the real convention was
stranger and more ridiculous. With 729
votes necessary to nominate, McAdoo
could barely muster more than 500. And
so it went, day and night, until McAdoo
released his delegates on the 99th ballot.
The students had predicted this, as well as
a last-minute threat to Davis from Sen.

Carter Glass of Virginia. But the most
striking parallel occurred when the
chairman of the Texas delegation took the
floor during the 103rd and final roll call,
and led the final stampede that put Davis
over the top—one of those three
“insurgent delegations” that had
performed the same task in Doremus
Gymnasium .

The Democratic nominee lost to Calvin
Coolidge by seven million votes in the
election, but the correct prediction of John
W. Davis gave the W&L Mock
Convention its first big place in the
headlines—a rare instance where devotion
to a “favorite son” and impeccable research
walked hand in hand. —M.G.C.

 

Yes, Virginia, a GOP pean § \ » treee ie Streets ed peington fa This Year

LEXINGTON—Washington and Lee
University students are elephant
hunting—right here in Virginia.

The Lexington undergraduates have
been scouring the countryside for a
pachyderm. Even “a tired old fellow’ will
do, the students say, but one with
“previous G.O.P. experience” is
preferred.

The occasion for the search, which has
extended from New Jersey to North
Carolina under the direction of a student
“elephant committee,” is the students’
forthcoming mock political convention—a
quadrennial event here for 40 years, and
this time Republican.

An elaborate parade through the
streets of this collegiate community has
been planned as a pre-convention feature
on opening day. One W&L mock
conventionist, appointed chairman of the
“elephant committee,” said he doubted
whether “there’s ever been anything like
the parade we're going to have,” but
bemoaned the fact that the parade’s key
figure, an elephant, so far was conspicuous
mostly by its absence.

“We don't care whether he’s a jumbo
or a baby, just so he’s a Republican
elephant, and most elephants are,” he
said.

The parade will feature about 60 floats
bearing “native color” representatives of
each state and territory. Bands, horses,

 

Gray (not pink) elephants enhance Mock Convention parade.

bears (for California), a sheep herd
(corraled by the Montana “delegates”), and
a variety of “secret plans” are included.

If anyone knows an elephant, even a
Democrat willing to carry a G.O.P. rider,
the W&L mock conventionists would be
glad to entertain the big fellow for a day.
Pink elephants have been officially banned
from the convention.

This article was written more than three decades
ago, as part of national publicity for the 1948
Mock Republican Convention. Pink elephants
notwithstanding, which are no strangers to
conventions or Mock Conventions of either
party, it should be noted that student parade
officials in ’48 did indeed secure the services of a
gray pachyderm for the day. And on the theory
that forewarned is forearmed, students have
already secured the services of a successor for
next May’s street pageant.

Dogged Error Vanquished

Setting the Record Straight on Those Elusive Last Words of Alben Barkley

Error is a hardy plant.

—Martin Farquhar Tupper
(honest)

There are lots of errors connected with
Washington and Lee. Such a large quantity
of the mail meant for us goes to Lexington,
Kentucky, that the post office there has a
rubber stamp to redirect it. The story is
told that many years ago, at his first faculty
meeting, a new president expressed his
pleasure at arriving on the campus of
William and Mary. We ourselves have a
plaque on campus on which the name of
another man, who was our president for 30
years, is misspelled. Half the world thinks
the statue of Cyrus McCormick on the
Front Campus is really of Robert E. Lee,
and the other half thinks Lee is buried
inside Edward Valentine’s marble
Recumbent Statue in the chapel.

Perhaps no error is more persistent or
widespread, however, than the one about
Alben Barkley’s famous Last Words.

We ourselves have committed the
error more frequently than anyone else.

It is all the more a shame because
Barkley’s Last Words must rank, by any
yardstick, among history’s most @ propos.
(Contrast them, for instance, with Elvis
Presley's, uttered to his girlfriend: “Baby,
I'm going into the library to read.”)

In fact, others than us at Washington
and Lee also regard Barkley’s Last Words
as transcendent. In their book The Best
(1974), Professors Peter Passell and
Leonard Ross label them “Best Exit Line.”
But they misquote Barkley. They have the
occasion wrong. And they say it happened
in Lexington, Kentucky.

Passell and Ross meant well.

(“. . . A misquotation set in the wrong
locale at the wrong time,” NBC newsman
Lloyd Dobyns, ’57, wrote to Time
magazine, “which must set some sort of
Best Record for Most Errors in Shortest
Space. ”’)

So far this year, we ourselves have
issued at least one news release and one
brochure that have the Last Words wrong
too.

It is Henry Mencken’s “Law of Millard
Fillmore’s Bathtub” that does it to us and
to everyone.

6

It snuck into print once, and it’s been
there ever since.
Our boss, however, possibly alone

among the whole populace, knew we and

everyone were wrong then, wrong now, and
likely to be wrong forever. That’s why he’s
the boss.

So after who-knows-how-many

 

F

Alben Barkley takes the rostrum for what
was his final speech.

repetitions of the error, we were prodded
actually to go to a primary source.
(Apparently, no one else had had a similar
notion for years, either. It took two days to
track down our own recording of the Last
Words.)

And here is the Straight Truth, finally.

Alben Barkley was at Washington and
Lee (Lexington, Virginia), on April 30,

 

1956, to speak to the student body’s Mock
Democratic Convention.

But he never said he would rather be a
servant in the house of the Lord than sit at
the feet of the mighty, and then keel over.

Almost, but not quite.

The problem is with the feet. If one is
a servant in anyone's house, after all, one
has no choice but to sit at the feet of the
mighty.

It was just a little more than three
years after the end of the Truman
administration, after the end of Barkley’s
vice presidency. The man who coined the
word Veep confessed to his student
audience that once upon a time, he’d
aspired to even higher office. But, he said,
no longer did he entertain such ambitions.
(“They could go further and do worse,” he
quoted Thomas B. Reed, “and it seems

they will.”)

Someone in the audience yelled, “Aw,
come on, y ole firehorse!”

BARKLEY: “I think I am sufficiently
alert to present conditions to know that all
fire apparatuses are now automotive, not
horse-drawn. [Laughter and applause] . . .
But I no longer have any personal interest
[in standing for highest office]. I have
served my country and my people for half
acentury.... I went into the House of
Representatives in 1913 and served
fourteen years; I was a junior
Congressman; then I became a senior
Congressman; and then I went to the
Senate and became a junior Senator and
then I became a senior Senator, and then I
became majority leader of the Senate, and
then vice president of the United States.
And now I'm back again as a junior
Senator. [Laughter] And I am willing to be
a junior. I’m glad to sit on the back row.

“For I would rather be a SERVANT
[Barkley is thundering by now] in the
HOUSE OF THE LORD thar to sit in the
seats of the mighty.”

Sit in the seats.

Sit IN THE SEATS!

Don't believe any other version,
whether datelined Lexington in Kentucky
or Virginia.

Mr. Tupper was right. Error
flourisheth in any soil.

—R.S.K.

by Craig Cornett, ’80

Convention Outlook Today

Changes in the National Political Process Increase Pressure on W&L Mock Delegates

The presidential nominating
convention—it’s almost as old as the
American political process itself.
Demonstrations, waving banners, platform
debates, and floor bargaining are
everyone s first thought when they hear
talk of the quadrennial event. Washington
and Lee’s Mock Convention is no
different. Our emphasis on realism is a
total commitment, from media coverage
and floor decoration to keynote address
and roll call votes.

But what of the current status of
national political conventions? Politicians
and political observers alike have called for
convention reform for years, and indeed
the national conventions are not what they
were a generation ago.

Political analysts have indulged in love-
hate relationships with national
conventions for decades. H. L. Mencken
commented after the 1924 Democratic
National Convention (the one that required
103 ballots to select its nominee—W&L
alumnus John W. Davis, who had been the
choice of the Mock Convention earlier):

There is something about a national
convention that makes it as fascinating
as a revival or a hanging. It is vulgar,
it is ugly, it is stupid, it is tedious, it is
hard upon both the higher cerebral
centers and the gluteus maximus, and
yet it is somehow charming. One sits
through long sessions wishing heartily
that all the delegates were dead and in
hell—and then suddenly there comes
a show so gaudy and hilarious, so
melodramatic and obscene, so
unimaginably exhilarating and
preposterous that one lives a gorgeous
year in an hour.

So goes the irony of national conventions.

But the days of small bands of national
“kingmakers” who bargained in smoke-
filled rooms to choose the party’s
presidential nominee are probably gone
forever. Stronger pre-convention politics
and newer centers of power as well as
changes in the mass media have combined
to deny a convention the deliberative
power it once had.

The style of campaigning for delegate
votes before the convention, begun by
John F. Kennedy in 1960, has become the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Craig Cornett, one of three Mock Convention co-chairmen.

standard. The crucial bargaining and
trading of support increasingly takes place
before the convention. The advent of
direct primaries to choose and commit
delegates to presidential candidates (as
opposed to the non-commital or “beauty
contest” primaries) has increasingly made
the convention outcome known in
advance. Indeed, the Republicans have
nominated their candidate on the first
ballot at every convention for 30 years (it
took New York Governor Thomas E.
Dewey three ballots to get the 1948
nomination), although the 1976 Republican
National Convention came surprisingly
close to a second ballot with the Ford-
Reagan contest.

With political power increasingly
decentralized, state and local political
leaders have found their abilities to
manipulate convention decisions severely
curtailed. In addition, the news media
have increasingly turned the convention
process into an entertainment
spectacular—intended for television
audiences as much as for the delegates.
And with the level of newspaper and
television coverage, the likelihood of
“dark-horse” candidates receiving a
nomination has become less likely—and far
more dangerous politically.

But this decline in the national
convention process has made the
Washington and Lee Mock Convention
even more credible and more challenging.
Political research plays a greater role at
Mock Conventions today than ever before.
Although 34 states will hold primary
elections in 1980, only 17 will be held
prior to the Mock Convention, and several
are still of the “beauty contest” variety.
This pre-convention pressure puts a
premium on accurate, detailed research
based on thorough contacts and
monitoring. For although the decision of
the Republican National Convention may
be evident just prior to its meeting in
Detroit, the race will assuredly be open at
Washington and Lee on May 9 and 10.

Craig Cornett, senior major in politics and
economics from Camp Springs, Md., is one of
the three co-chairmen of the 1980 Mock
Republican Convention. He’s been on the scene
since the dust cleared on the 1976 affair, and is
the resident sage on matters political. In his
spare time (such as there is), he is vice president
of W&L’s circle of ODK, the leadership fraternity,
is a member of Pi Sigma Alpha (politics
fraternity) and the University Federation, and

is a national fellow of the Center for Study of the
Presidency. Last month he was one of 19
undergraduates chosen for inclusion in the 1979-
80 volume of Who’s Who Among Students in
American Universities and Colleges.

Laurels For Our Poet
Dabney Stuart Receives One of the First Governor's Awards for the Arts

Dabney Stuart, professor of English
and widely known poet, was one of 12
individuals and organizations to receive
the first Virginia Governor's Awards for
the Arts during a black-tie ceremony in
Richmond this fall.

Stuart is the author of five volumes of
poetry and, most recently, a critical study
of Vladimir Nabokov, The Dimensions of
Parody, published last year by Louisiana
State University Press. His work has been
included in 32 other anthologies, and his
poems, essays and reviews have appeared
in more than 60 periodicals, including The
New Yorker. He was also poetry editor of
W&L’s literary review, Shenandoah, for
10 years until 1976.

He began his teaching career at
William & Mary in 1961, after receiving
degrees from Davidson and Harvard,
where he was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow.
His other honors have included the Dylan
Thomas Award of the Poetry Society of
America and a creative writing fellowship
in poetry from the National Endowment
for the Arts.

He joined the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1965, a year before Knopf
published his first book of poems, The
Diving Bell.

The Governor's Awards program was
established this year to recognize
excellence in the arts in Virginia and to
encourage support of the arts among
Virginians.

The awards were presented by Gov.
John Dalton.

Washington and Lee connections
abounded at the event. The master of
ceremonies was Tom Wolfe, the 1951
graduate who got his start in writing on the
Ring-tum Phi and in Shenandoah. Wolfe,
whose newest book, The Right Stuff, is at
the top of the best-seller lists, received an
honorary Litt.D. degree from the
University in 1974.

Another of the 12 Governor's Awards
went to Leslie Cheek Jr., director of the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts for more
than 20 years, who built it into the
premier organization of its kind in the
United States. He and his wife, Mary
Tyler Freeman Cheek, donated their 365-
acre mountaintop retreat in the Blue

8

Wo&L’s award-winning poet Dabney Stuart.

Ridge, Skylark, to Washington and Lee in
1977 in memory of her father, the late Dr.
Douglas Southall Freeman, Pulitzer Prize-
winning biographer of George Washington
and Robert E. Lee.

An award for corporate support of the
arts was presented to Thalhimers
Department Stores of Richmond, and was
accepted by Charles G. Thalhimer,

 

president, a 1941 W&L graduate.

Among the many others linked to
Washington and Lee at the banquet were
Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr., 39, University
board member and former president of the
University of Virginia, who was one of the
six awards judges, and Mrs. A. Linwood
Holton Jr., wife of the former Virginia
governor and W&L graduate, who chaired

the steering committee. W&L’s secretary,
James W. Whitehead, and Mrs.
Whitehead were members of the awards
program advisory committee; Board
member Sydney Lewis, ’40, and his wife,
Frances Lewis, were benefactors; Mrs.
Robert N. Fishburn of Roanoke, whose
husband is a 1955 graduate, was chairman
of the dinner committee, and those
couples attended also.

Appraisals
of the Critics

‘Elegiac, witty, often sad, Stuart’s verse
is . . . an uncompromising, honest, and
lyrical formulation of the myriad faces of
experience and reflection. The record of

an impressive talent... .”
Library Journal, reviewing Stuart’s
first book, Diving Bell, 1966

99

“Poetry for the eye and the brain... .
Choice (college and research library journal),
reviewing The Other Hand, 1975

“Taking the form of colorful portraits, the
poems resemble the face cards of some
magical deck which the poet shuffles

maximum effect.”
Library Journal, reviewing Round
and Round, 1977

“Stuart is a strict, careful, cultivated, and
lonely modernist of the now, alas, old-
fashioned sort. . . . One must think and
feel deeply to read these poems. They are
liberating.”

Southern Review, on
The Other Hand, 1976

“This is a welcome study. . . . What
makes the readings valuable is the
deftness with which Stuart illuminates the
elaborate artifice of Nabokov’s fictions
and the intelligence with which he shows
how this artifice leads the reader to the
novels’ serious concerns. . . . The essays
are well written; they drive ahead; they
make a real contribution to Nabokov
criticism. More critical books would

benefit from such preparation.”
Yale Review, on Nabokov:
The Dimensions of Parody, 1979

 

 

by Robert P. Fure

Assistant Professor of English

Notes Toward an Appreciation .

One of the early poems in Dabney
Stuart's first volume, The Diving Bell,
begins, “As a boy I started at the top.”
The poem becomes, like so much of his
work, a poetry of descent, of wry, in-
trepid obliquity down into the self and
history, “spirals without end.” The
poem's final moment offers a discovery
characteristic of Stuart’s journeys: “I see
myself on every level / . . . Guideless,
always going down.”

A Particular Place, Stuart’s second
collection, opens with the same descent:
“He finds himself / Unsafe anywhere /
But tries the basement stairs, going /
Down.” In this volume, however, the
journey uncovers “a particular place,” an
immediate, habitable world:

Descending now beneath the
foundation
He finds room enough

Meets all his fathers
In the taproot of an oak

.. . Lives here, lives
Here, giving this wood his name

Calling it home.

If these poems would stand “within
reach, in our own atmosphere,” Stuart’s
poems still seldom operate as public acts;
his visions seem at once too private and
too startling to command a readership of
more than one. And yet, in the early
poems especially, so successfully do they
engage a local world of human feelings
and events that these first person poems
both communicate and inform: “Is it that
I know / What you have known / And
forgotten.” There is a compelling chal-
lenge in Stuart’s poetry to observe his
observations—to go down the page with
him—until at the end we together ac-
knowledge, “See, they depart, and we go
with them.”

The challenge in the later volumes,
The Other Hand and Round and Round,

is more perplexing, for Stuart begins to
speak in discrete voices:

Yet I prefer

My tongues

Scattered, and the patched songs
Crazing my ear,

To the gall

Of some meshed fool

Calling me

Stoneward to Peniel

“It's a long way down.”

Downward is always earthward in Stuart’s
poetry, toward a place of source and
foundation. He does not lose himself to
the mysteries of any chthonic realm, for
he would attend the acute realities of this
world, even “the immeasurable difficulty
one has, not so much being heard, but
speaking clearly in the first place.” Our
difficulty is as often hearing clearly. In
“Directions,” Stuart acknowledges these
dilemmas and tenders a resolution:

Say the difficulty

Of hearing the claims of survival
Piecemeal

Becomes more resonant

Because her music does not surrender
It designs

To anything [_] [] CJ including
Me

One always has the sense of shared
difficulty in Stuart’s work, but the diffi-
culty is never discouraging. In the down-
ward journey one always has something
to observe and collect: Round and Round
begins with ballads and ends with lessons.
The final lesson is perhaps, as in the title
of a late poem, “a lesson in harmony.”
Such would be the meaning of poetry.
The attendent music of Dabney Stuart’s
work is Orphic testimony to a further
descent, discovery, and a final flowering.

Robert P. Fure received his Ph.D. degree from
the University of California at Berkeley and
joined the W&L faculty in 1977.

 

 

by Robert G. Holland, ’63

Redemption 20 years
Later on the Road
From Lexington

To Buena Vista

Competing in the South's Oldest

Continuous Footrace Evokes Thoughts
Of Paths Taken and Not Taken

 

It was like running home and running
away from home, making connections with
my past and severing links to a part of my
past, all wrapped up in one improbable,
dreamlike experience. .

That ambivalence describes my
emotions in returning to the pastoral
beauty of Rockbridge County last Dec. 1
to compete in the 20th annual Lexington-
Buena Vista Road Race.

When the inaugural footrace was held
in 1959, I was a freshman at Washington
and Lee. The only kind of race to the
metropolis of B. V. I contemplated in
those days was in the cars of fraternity
buddies, either racing to return dates to
Southern Sem before the “witching hour”
or stretching beer-drinking revelry an
extra hour. (Lexington’s beer halls closed
at 11 p.m. but Buena Vista’s permitted ale
to be quaffed until midnight in those days.)

My remembrances of the Lexington-
B. V. Race were of a clutch of thinly clad

Bob Holland is associate editor of the
Richmond Times-Dispatch.

10

 

harriers running through the streets just as
the Christmas decorations were going up
in both towns and the first wintry blasts
from the north were being felt. A bunch of
crazies, obviously, but I think I dutifully
teletyped the race results to Richmond as a
student correspondent for the Times-
Dispatch.

Running the race in my student days
was quite out of the question. I had been a
reasonably fit varsity football and baseball
player in high school but allowed myself to
balloon at W&L—with the help of
cheeseburger-and-beer breakfasts and hot-
dog-eating marathons at the frat house—to
an unhealthy 250 pounds.

Yet here I stood, shivering, with 120
other “crazies” at the starting line at
Barger’s Quarry on U.S. 60 in Lexington
preparing to run the 10 kilometers (6.2
miles) to the police station in Buena Vista.
The race now bills itself as the oldest
continuous footrace in the South, and I,
perhaps, could boast of being the oldest
continuous “freshman” in the starting
field—a freshman approaching the starting

 

The author in the Virginia Ten-Miler in Lynchburg.

 

 

line a mere 20 years tardy.

As perhaps is apparent by now, I did
not leap into the B. V. race on the spur of
the moment. In the summer of 1977, I
became a Convert, yea, joined the ranks of
the Committed. From a mile-a-day jogger
I quickly graduated to three a day, then
five and then took to road racing for
reasons I'm not sure I understand.
Although I’m now down to 195 pounds, I
still must look more like a wrestler than a
runner in this skimpy attire.

Prior to returning to Lexington, I'd
twice done the tough, hilly Virginia Ten-
Miler in Lynchburg and last October
completed my first (and possibly last) 26.2
mile marathon—the one sponsored by my
newspaper in Richmond. But none of the
dozen or so earlier races precipitated the
flood of emotions of this one today.

It’s not just that, for once, I think I
came close to that mythical “runner’s
high,” intoxicated from drinking in the
majesty of the Maury River and the
mountains and the stone-marked fields
along the way. It’s not just that my time—
47:35—was, compared to my usual

 

 

The author gains on a competitor in the
Lexington-B.V. race.

 

plodding pace, pretty speedy.

Maybe the strange exhilaration had
something to do with running past a spot
on a sharp hilly curve about four miles out
of Lexington where a car in which I had
ridden as a student had skidded, tumbled
down a ravine and landed aright. It
happened on one of those “races” to a
B. V. pub. Miraculously, no one was hurt.
And given that second chance, here I am
running by, celebrating life as it were.

Maybe the good feeling had something
to do, additionally, with overcoming the
one regret I have harbored as to my
student days at Gen. Lee’s College. That
regret was my failure to develop my
physical potential to go with the excellent
education; specifically, not playing
intercollegiate football and baseball.

I'd signed up for W&L football, drawn
my gear, even attended a practice when
fraternity Rush Week hit. And I mean hit.
It was a bewildering haze and maze of
cigarette smoke, and booze, and marathon
(there’s that word again) small-talking for
one who had done little of that kind of
socializing before. I never returned to the

 

 

2

The late Coach Lee McLaughlin: He beckoned
the author toward a road not taken.

 

Wilson Field locker room.

As late as my sophomore year, Coach
Lee McLaughlin had sent word to me via a
fraternity brother that I would be welcome
to come back out for the team, but by then
the inertia of easy living had taken control.
Talk about a real regret—not having taken
the opportunity to play for a great
gentleman like the late “Coach Mac’ is a
real one.

By not playing football, I did have my
afternoons free to work virtually full-time
as an area correspondent for the Times-
Dispatch, which gave me a head start on
my journalistic career. But I’ve often
wondered about that “road not taken,” in
Robert Frost’s expression, and imagined
how it would have been to compete in the
W&L blue.

The Lexington-Buena Vista Road Race
was then, in a sense, a second chance, a
vehicle for living out those fantasies.
Garbed in W&L shirt and shorts
purchased the day before at the University
Supply Store, I ran a race as never before.
For once, my thick legs didn’t feel heavy

 

and at least in my mind my feet barely
kissed the ground. Although more persons
finished ahead of me than behind me, I
actually passed a fair number of folks,
including some (ah, sweet victory) wearing
the VMI colors.

If I were to make any criticism of the
W&L I knew as a student, it would be the
failure of the university to do more
proselytizing for a broadly defined
athleticism to go with the academics. But
on the other hand, Washington and Lee
operates in a climate of freedom and
encourages individuals to make their own
responsible choices. Perish the thought
that W&L should ever emulate Oral
Roberts University and require students to
“make their weights” in order to continue
their intellectual pursuits. With the
magnificent new Warner Center to
encourage physical education and with
fraternity pledging no longer dominating
those precarious first days as a freshman, I
assume that fewer students today are going
astray only to redeem their physical selves
20 years later.

ll

de Gazette

Ten W&L Students Are Disciplined for Damaging Valuable English Boxwoods

Ten W&L undergraduates were found
guilty in December by the Student
Control Committee of damaging or
destroying 37 valuable English boxwood
plants on campus, some of them more than
a century old. Four students from another
college elsewhere in Virginia were also
implicated in the incident.

The W&L students were ordered by
the Control Committee to put in eight
hours of campus- and community-service
work each week through the end of the
school year. The committee will direct and
supervise the work program.

The students were also placed on social
probation for the rest of the school year
and conduct probation for the rest of each
student’s career at the University. Social
probation includes a complete prohibition
against participation in any social fraternity
activity.

The committee also said the students
should reimburse the University for the
loss. At press time, no final cost figures
had been determined.

The Student Control Committee
consists of 12 student body officers and
routinely handles disciplinary complaints.

In addition, the University Committee
on Athletics—which consists of six
members of the faculty outside the athletic
department, three student
representatives, and two alumni—voted to
recommend to the President that no
student who had been found by the
Student Control Committee to have
participated in the destruction should be
allowed to represent the University in any
athletic competition for 12 months.
President Huntley subsequently directed
that the recommendation be implemented.

The boxwood vandalism occurred in
four widely separated areas of the Front
Campus—at Parmly Plaza between Parmly
and Howe Halls; near Tucker Hall; beside
Washington Hall; and at the south end of
the Colonnade just beyond Newcomb
Hall. The incident was reported to have
occurred about 2 a.m. Dec. 6.

The University did not identify any of
the students involved, and the Student
Control Committee hearing was closed, as
is the custom. All 10 students reportedly
acknowledged their participation in the

12

incident and said the blame should be
distributed equally among them.

A number of news reports said the 10
students included four members of the
Generals basketball team and three others
assisting the team in non-playing
capacities. Those reports arose from the
absence of the four players from the team
lineup in a game played two days after the
boxwood destruction.

A trip to Europe and the Bahamas
planned by the basketball team for the
Christmas vacation was cancelled, the
result of sentiment among the active
members of the team that they would
rather not make the trip if other members
of the team were to be excluded under the
Athletic Committee action.

 

Guy T. Steuart II.

 

 

Guy Steuart II, 53,
new head of Lee Associates

Guy Thomas Steuart II is the new
chairman of W&L’s Robert E. Lee
Associates, the organization of the
University’s most generous Annual Fund
supporters.

Steuart’s appointment was announced
by the Board of Trustees. He succeeds
Everett Tucker, 34, of Little Rock,
chairman of the Lee Associates for three
years.

Steuart received his B.S. degree in
commerce in 1953. He is president of
Steuart Ford and Steuart Investment Co.
of Washington, D.C. He is a board
member of National Trust and Savings Co.
and past member of the boards of the
National Cathedral School for Girls, Sibley
Memorial Hospital, and Norwood School.

His wife, Margaret, is a Sweet Briar
graduate, and their oldest son, Guy III, is
a senior at W&L (and public-relations
chairman of the 1980 Mock Convention).
Their daughter is a Yale graduate, and the
Steuarts have three sons currently at St.
Albans in Washington, his own prep
school.

The Lee Associates, formed in 1967 by
the Board of Trustees, are W&L’s major
source of annual support—that is, of
recurring gifts not for capital construction
or permanent endowment, but rather for
day-to-day operating costs.

The Associates are those donors—
parents and friends as well as alumni—who
have made unrestricted gifts of $1,000 or
more to the Annual Fund.

In 1978-79, Lee Associates contributed
more than half of the record $977,333 in
Annual Fund gifts—though they
comprised only 5.3 percent of the number
of donors.

Membership in the Lee Associates
exceeds 600.

In addition to Tucker, his predecessors
as chairmen of the Lee Associates include
David D. Johnson, '21, 23L; Richard H.
Turrell, 49; Edwin A. Foltz, ’40L, and
Richard T. Scruggs, a non-alumnus
father of Richard T. Scruggs Jr., "70, and
John H. Scruggs, 77.

 

Brock, Warner join
Mock Convention lineup

Two W&L alumni who are now
prominent in Republican party politics—
William Brock III, national GOP
chairman, and U.S. Sen. John W. Warner
of Virginia—will take part in the
University’s 17th Mock Convention next
May.

Brock, a 1953 W&L graduate and
former U.S. Senator from Tennessee, will

deliver the Mock Convention’s opening
address, and Warner, a 1949 engineering
graduate, will be parade marshall.

The Mock Convention will take place
May 9 and 10.

Brock has been national party chairman
for two years and is credited with
impressive success in rebuilding the
party's grass-roots strength. His address,
defining the Republican National
Committee's view of the 1980 Presidential
race, “will be the capstone to our three
years of preparation,” according to student
officials of the Mock Convention.

As grand marshall of the lavish parade
through Lexington that traditionally kicks
it off, Warner will be the Mock
Convention's principal good-will
ambassador. The parade is expected to
have more than 60 floats and a
considerable number of marching bands,
not to mention an actual elephant of
certified Republican lineage.

Both Brock and Warner have been
active in GOP politics since the early
1960s. Brock began his series of upset
victories over Tennessee Democrats in
1962, when he was first elected to the U.S.
House. He was elected to the Senate in
1970, and in 1974 his party colleagues
there chose him to head the Republican
Senatorial Campaign Committee.

Warner, who has been a member of
the W&L Board of Trustees since 1968,
became involved in Republican politics as
a participant in several campaigns, also in
the ‘60s. He was confirmed as Secretary of
the Navy in 1972, and three years later
President Ford appointed him head of the
national Bicentennial administration.

Brock and Warner join another
Republican dignitary in the 1980 Mock
Convention lineup, keynote speaker Barry
Goldwater.

EES SALI EO OPT NER PRT LE TREE,
Kappa Sig redux

W&L is on the verge of having another
fraternity—its 17th—with the revival of
Kappa Sigma, which had a chapter on
campus until 10 years ago.

Reflecting an apparent nationwide
trend toward a renewal of interest in

 

Regional Moot Court winners William J. Milani, Buckner P. Wellford, and Kerry M. Wilson.

collegiate social fraternities, W&L’s born-
again Kappa Sig chapter has 16 pledges,
and becomes the third new fraternity to
appear or re-appear at the University in
the past five years.

Plans to reactivate the chapter began
this past fall and moved ahead at top
speed. Led by a sophomore from
Westport, Conn., Daniel E. Schott, the
group quickly won the support of Kappa
Sigma national, and subsequently received
endorsements from the Interfraternity
Council and, in November, the W&L
faculty.

The new Kappa Sigmas will be pledges
for a minimum of three months, and the
chapter will carry “colony” status. The
group s first formal initiation is scheduled
to take place in the spring.

W&L's Kappa Sigma chapter was
initially formed in 1873. It was dissolved in
1969, at the height of Vietnam-era anti-
fraternity sentiment, one of several
fraternities which folded at W&L in that
period.

Kappa Alpha Order, founded at
Washington College during Robert E.
Lee's years as president, was disbanded in
1970 but was re-formed in 1975. And
W&Lis first “brand-new” fraternity in
more than 50 years, Chi Psi, was formed
two years ago.

    

a ae bf ee
>» = i oe ge
a a iis oe

   

 

Moot Court legal scholars
capture regional championship

A team of W&L law students won first
place in a four-state regional round of the
National Moot Court Competition in
November.

Members of the three-man team were
William J. Milani, Buckner P. Wellford
and Kerry M. Wilson, all second-year law
students. Prof. Samuel W. Calhoun served
as the team’s advisor.

The group was judged on the basis of a
written brief and an oral argument,
counting 40 and 60 percent of the score,
respectively. As is customary, the problem
was devised by members of the New York
Bar Association and was used in all 14
Moot Court regions.

The argument this year dealt with the
Seventh Amendment “right to jury” in
civil actions that are so complex or
technical that a jury cannot comprehend
the details of the case. Each team was
required to argue both sides of the
question and, as in the written portion of
the competition, was judged by a group of
Richmond attorneys.

The Milani-Wellford-Wilson team
enjoyed a series of victories over Wake
Forest, the University of West Virginia,

13

 

& Caxette

Duke, and U.N.C. at Chapel Hill, finally
defeating a team from the University of
Virginia in the regional finals to emerge as
champions.

As regional champions, the Washington
and Lee team—along with second-place
Virginia—will go on to the Moot Court
National Competition in New York City in
January, arguing against 26 other teams of
finalists.

(A EN AE EPS
New phono album
by the Glee Club

W&L's Glee Club has released a new
LP record of songs ranging in kind from
sacred music to vaudeville. The album,
Lee Chapel Encores, is the group’s second
record in four years. (The first, Songs of
WUWL, was so popular that it went out of
print, if that is what may be said to happen
to records when they are all gone, quickly
after it was issued.)

Selections range from “A Mighty
Fortress” and a musical arrangement of
Robert Frost’s poem “Stopping by Woods

 

 

LEE CHAPEL ENCORES

  

 

 

 

on a Snowy Evening’ to the old drinking
song “Vive L'Amour’ and a medley of
songs by Simon and Garfunkel (and even
the oldest alumni will recognize “Bridge
over Troubled Waters” and “Sounds of
Silence”).

Also included on the record is a series
of music-hall songs performed by Southern
Comfort, the club-within-a-club (a
successor, of sorts, to the Sazeracs).

14

Among the featured favorites are “Let Me
Call You Sweetheart,” “Climbin’ Up the
Mountain,” and “Java Jive.”

And, of course, a tradition and
sentiment demand, the album ends with
superlative new renditions of “College
Friendships” and the “W&L Swing.”

The 45-member Glee Club has been
led for seven years by Dr. Gordon P.
Spice, assistant music professor.

The new record is available at $6.50
postpaid from Dr. Spice (duPont Hall,
W&L, Lexington 24450).

SER EES PTE
Journalism workshop
for high-school newshounds

W&Lis chapter of The Society of
Professional Journalists/Sigma Delta Chi
sponsored an all-day workshop in
December for high-school students,
planned to give them an opportunity to
learn directly from newspaper
professionals and journalism educators.

The program was scheduled in mid-
year to allow the students to draw on the
experience they had acquired up to then,
yet to give them several months in which
to apply the new techniques they may
have learned at W&L, according to
Hampden H. Smith III, assistant
journalism professor and organizer of the
series of concurrent panel sessions.

Participating professionals (among
them several alumni of the W&L
journalism program) represented
newspapers in Roanoke, Lynchburg and
Danville.

 

“Hooray! Author! Author!”
“He’s right over there,
the one with the hammer.”

W&L had its share of surprises in
December, and then some. And so it was
owed to us that one of them should be
pleasant. Weeds was it—an original comic
play by a W&L drama teacher, Thomas J.
Ziegler, in its premiére production by the
University Theatre.

Weeds represented Ziegler’s début as a
playwright; his considerable previous
reputation had been built as a set
designer.

The oeuvre resolves around the classic
generation gap—the 48-year-old widowed
mother, played to the hilt by Dr. Pamela
Hemenway Simpson, W&L’s art historian,
who is a far cry from 48 but carried off the
réle triumphantly anyway, and her over-
the-hill-hippie daughter and son-in-law,
who are hopelessly time-capsuled relics of

 

ie =
Playwright Thomas J. Ziegler.

the ‘60s, unaware that the times have
changed conclusively. Mother is
possessive to the point of lunacy; and the
kids, to be sure, couldn’t tie their shoes
themselves, if they wore shoes, much less
make it on their own for a whole day in the
real world.

So it seems.

Weeds has the veneer of farce. (The
only hint of complaint the local newspaper
registered in its review was that the one-
liners were so good and so abundant that
the critic's belly ended up hurting.) But

 

there is a moral. It is an important moral,
plausibly introduced. It is a familiar moral,
but it is presented without clichés—a
moral about apron strings, about niches
and different places in the sun. A rose ina
cornfield is useless—a weed, if you wish to
be technical. But let it settle in a rose-
patch....

And guess who ends up enceinte.

The consensus: Watch Ziegler. And
look out for Weeds.

—R.S.K.

SE IE EER
And elsewhere in the arts

(J The University Theatre presented
Butley, the hit contemporary psychological
drama by England’s Simon Gray, directed
by W&L senior Terry Frankenberger as a
thesis project for his major in drama.

[] Pianist Leon Bates, whom the New
York Times calls “the next black concert-
hero,” winner of numerous awards and
guest soloist with symphony orchestras in
New York and Washington, presented a
concert of classical music under the
sponsorship of the W&L Concert Guild.

[] Liu Yung, painter, actor, writer and
journalist, visited W&L from Taiwan in

Jay Blumberg and Champe Leary rehearse scene in Ziegler’s Weeds.

 

November for a reception, lecture and
demonstration in connection with a two-
week exhibition in duPont Gallery of his
delicate brush paintings of animals and
landscapes.

[] W&L’s Glasgow Endowment (“to
promote the art of expression by pen and
tongue’) and the English and fine arts
departments joined forces in November to
bring a renowned Shakespearean actor,
Peter Whitbread, to campus for a
performance of his one-man show “Exit
Burbage,” in which the latter-day thespian
re-creates the réles which earned his
predecessor the title of greatest actor of
Shakespeare’s day.

CJ I-Hsiung Ju, W&L’s celebrated artist-
in-residence, has had one-man exhibitions
and has delivered lecture-demonstrations
in several states this fall. Among them: a
six-week exhibition of 31 of his charac-
teristic Chinese brush-paintings at

The Women’s Bank of Richmond and a
featured appearance in December at the
Pittsburgh Symphony’s annual black-tie
ball, “Reflections: Near and Afar,” at
which Ju painted a series of works—
complete with elaborate calligraphic texts
describing the occasion—which were later
auctioned for the benefit of the symphony.

 

 

Dean William J. Watt.

sittings been etm
Elected

[] W&L’s two undergraduate academic
deans have been elected to principal
offices in professional associations.

Dr. William J. Watt, Dean of The
College, is the 1980 president of the
Conference of Academic Deans of the
Southern States, a 200-member group
affiliated with the regional accrediting
agency, the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools.

Dr. Edward C. Atwood Jr., Dean of
the School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics, has been elected to membership
on the executive committee of the
Southern Business Administration
Association, which is associated with the
American Assembly of Collegiate Schools
of Business, the national accreditation
agency in that field.

[| Dr. Pamela Hemenway Simpson,
associate art history professor, has been
elected editor of the Review of the
Southeastern College Art Conference. The
Review is the organization’s principal
annual scholarly publication.

(] Gerald J. Darrell, director of food

services, has been elected regional vice

15

 

 

7
oF

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

By Kenneth P. Ries

Sports Information Director

Fall Sports Report

Football Generals Continue to Rebuild; Water Polo Team Compiles a 20-7 Record

FOOTBALL

The Generals ended their season on a
positive note, defeating Georgetown
University 28-20 on Wilson Field to finish
with a 3-7 record.

Head Coach Gary Fallon, who
completed his second season at W&L,
announced that 46 Generals received
varsity letters, including eight seniors:
Stewart Atkinson (Atlanta, Ga.); Syd
Farrar (Blackstone, Va.); Mark Lewis
(Manakin-Sabot, Va.); Mike Mrlik
(Charleston, S.C.); Marty Piccoli
(Somerset, N.Y.); Vic Shepherd (Salem,
Va.); Scott Smith (Severna Park, Md.); and
Joe Wallace (Wayland, Mass.). Classmate
Alex Montgomery (Rockville, Md.)
received a Senior Award.

Sophomore Mike Pressler (Wilton,
Conn.) received the C. J. Harrington
Memorial Award as top defensive player;
Smith the Clovis Moomaw Award for
outstanding commitment and attitude;
Atkinson the Dan Ray Justice Memorial
Award as outstanding offensive player (his
third such honor); and Jim Forte the Lee
McLaughlin Award as the most improved
General.

After a poll of the O.D.A.C. football
coaches, eight Generals were named to the
All-Conference team: Smith, Atkinson,
and Chip Nunley (Bristol, Va.) received
first-team recognition; Lewis, Forte,
Farrar, Chris Leiser (Chester Heights,
Pa.), and Tom Noble (Luterville, Md.)
received second-team recognition.

Fallon also announced that Leiser, Lee
Minetree (East Hampton, N.Y.) and John
McKee (Clarksdale, Miss.) were elected
captains for the 1980 Generals. Leiser and
Minetree are rising seniors, McKee a
rising junior.

SOCCER

W&L finished the season at 5-7-1, the
best record the team has achieved under
head coach Rolf Piranian, now at the close
of his fourth season. The Generals earned
five shutouts, tying school records set in
1965, 1966, and 1967. Four of the shutouts
were 1-0 wins, the final one a 0-0 tie.

Piranian announced that 23 Generals
were awarded varsity letters, led by
seniors Doug Dorsey (Englewood, Conn.);

Doug Pinotti (Williams, Va.); Doug Seitz
(Catonsville, Md.); and Dana Samuelson
(Allendale, N.J.).

Junior Bryan Williams (Richmond, Va.)
received the Jim Trundle Award as most
outstanding player. Classmate Mark
Turner (Gainesville, Ga.), the Generals’
top scorer, earned the Bob Lathrop Award
as top offensive player. Seitz received the
David Redmond Award as top defensive

 

and Mike Mrlik (72).

oY

Poised for action in the Georgetown game are Vic Shepherd (53), Joe Wallace (74), Mark Lewis (33),

Head Coach Gary Fallon directs one of his charges.

player, and Samuelson the Coaches’
Trophy for dedication and contribution.
Piranian also announced that rising
seniors Turner and Williams were elected
captains for the 1980 Generals. Both
players were also selected to the 1979 All-
O.D.A.C. soccer team, Williams as a
defenseman and Turner as a forward.
Samuelson received honorable mention
recognition in the O.D.A.C. voting.

 

Ra

 

17

Fall Sports Report

In addition, Piranian was honored by
his O.D.A.C. peers with the Co-Coach-of-
the-Year laurels. The honor is Piranian’s
second, the first coming in 1977.

CROSS-COUNTRY

The Generals completed the season
with a 9-5 dual meet record and a fifth
place finish (out of six teams) in the
O.D.A.C. Championships.

Coach Dick Miller, who completed his
28th season with the harriers, announced
that nine varsity letters were awarded:
freshman Walter Anasovitch (Naugatuck,
Conn.); senior Richard Bird (Lexington,
Va.); junior Fred Caudill (Louisville, Ky.);
freshman Ted Fletcher (Meriden, N.H.);
junior Howard Herndon (Talahassee, Fla.);
freshman Nick Stieglitz (Miami, Fla.); and
junior Charles Warner (Charlotte, N.C.).

Bird, who earned his fourth letter,
received the Forest Fletcher Trophy for
outstanding contribution to the team
during his career. In addition, Miller
announced that rising seniors Warner and
Herndon will serve as captains for the
1980 Generals.

18

 

Soccer Generals celebrate goal in 2-1 victory over Hampden-Sydney.

WATER POLO

The Generals concluded their season in
fine fashion with a 14-7 win over regional-
rival Richmond to claim seventh place in
the NCAA Eastern Regionals and finish
with a 20-7 record.

The trip to regionals, held in Chicago
on Nov. 17-18, marked a first for W&L’'s
water polo squad, only in their third
season of intercollegiate competition. The
Generals were the lone Division III team
in the NCAA Tournament and their
performance earned them votes for the
final NCAA top-ten poll.

Head Coach Page Remillard, who
completed his first season, announced that
eight Generals received letters, including
seniors Drew Pillsbury (Grosse Point
Farms, Mich.); Biff Martin (Middletown,
Ohio); Bob Newcomb (Bernardsville,
N.J.); and Mike Foley (Dunmore, Pa.).

In addition to the 20-7 overall record,
W&L finished second (to Richmond) in the
Southern League with an 11-2 mark. On
the season, the Generals and Spiders met
five times, W&L taking two wins and
Richmond three.

 

 

Co-Coach-of-the-Year Piranian.

TENNIS

W&L’s tennis team completed a three-
event fall schedule on Oct. 19-20 when the
Generals hosted Maryland, Ohio, and
Virginia in the third annual W&L Fall
Invitational.

Although W&L dropped all three
matches (5-4 to Maryland and Ohio, 6-3 to
Virginia), head coach Gary Franke wasn't
disheartened.

“We're disappointed at losing all
three,” the second-year director
commented, “but we saw good things
about our team, enough to say that we ve
got a bright spring ahead of us. We'll have
strong players at each flight and a number
of fine back-ups.”

Senior captains Stewart Jackson (Lake
Forest, Ill.) and David Constine
(Richmond, Va.) were the top Generals in
the Invitational, each winning one singles
match and two doubles contests.

Also competing for W&L were Steve
Denny (Bethesda, Md.); Doug Gaker
(Middletown, Ohio); Jackson Sharman
(Tuscaloosa, Ala.); Pete Lovell (Bedford,
N.H.); and Pat Norris (Dallas, Tex.).

Chapter News

Eastern Kentucky Gives W&L Memento of the 60s Greatest Sports Figure

Probably no other college in the land
has anything to compare with what
Washington and Lee received not long ago
in a ceremony at the inaugural meeting of
the new Eastern Kentucky Chapter: an
actual shoe, worn by the greatest sports
figure of the ’60s—and it’s framed under
glass.

It is, of course, not an Addidas sneaker.

It’s a horseshoe worn by none other than
Secretariat, the star of The Meadow stable
who raced to the Triple Crown, among
other distinctions, wearing the blue-and-
white of Washington and Lee.

The Meadow was owned by
Christopher T. Chenery, ’09, the utility
executive and member of the W&L Board
for 20 years until his retirement in 1970.
He died Jan. 3, 1972.

And so at the festivities in horse
country—in the other Lexington—they
gave President Huntley the shoe, and an
impressive certificate, signed by Mr.
Chenery’s daughter, Mrs. Penny Tweedy
Ringquist (who succeeded her father at
The Meadow, located in Doswell, Va.,
outside Richmond) and by Seth Hancock,
master of Claiborne Farm in Lexington,

Ky., where Secretariat now enjoys some of

life's finer pleasures other than racing.

ATLANTA. The 15th annual Alumni
Football Game between Washington and
Lee and the University of Virginia was
played at the Polo Field in Atlanta on Oct.
13. Several hundred alumni from both
schools attended the game, which was
played on a beautiful fall day.

Unfortunately, the alumni Generals lost by

a score of 8-0. But a good time was had by
all who attended and the team is looking
forward to a victory in ’80.

SEATTLE. An enthusiastic group of
W&L alumni, wives and friends convened
at the Canal Restaurant for cocktails and
dinner on Oct. 25. Arrangements for the
gathering were made by Bruce Houghton,
‘64. John Duckworth, ’71, development
associate, presented slides of the campus
and remarked on current University
activity. Numerous questions were asked
by the assembled alumni. Raymond
Haman, 52L, an attorney in Seattle and a

 

ROANOKE—Ann Jennings, wife
of James W. Jennings Jr., ’65,
‘72L, is serenaded by Southern
Comfort, a singing group from the
Washington and Lee Glee Club.

 

member of the W&L Law School Council,
made comments in general about W&L’s
law school and cited Lewis Hall as an

impressive home for instruction in the law.

The group also discussed what type of
future alumni functions might be most
appealing to alumni in the state of
Washington.

ROANOKE. W&L alumni from the

 

EASTERN KENTUCKY—Fred G.
Francis, 39L, an organizer of the
Eastern Kentucky Chapter, and
John R. Bagby, ’73L, chapter
president, present Secretariat's
shoe to President Huntley and
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn.

 

 

 

 

ROANOKE—A large group of
alumni and guests enjoy delicious
hors d oeuvres while listening to
the singing of Southern Comfort.

Roanoke area met for cocktails on Friday,
Nov. 2 at Hunting Hills Country Club. A
large group enjoyed cocktails and
conversation for an hour before chapter
president, Jay Turner, 67, called the
meeting to order. He reported on his
attendance at the Special Alumni
Conference and introduced several guests
from Lexington: William C. Washburn,
‘40, alumni secretary, and Mrs. Washburn;

19

 

   

 

 

   

 

rs Oo re a BS ee _ a oe OS a
7
- A
> 7 / | | |
- - . 7 : |
-
: :
- | |
. . | |
7 - |
>. . | |
| -
- .
- . |
: OO
7 .
> - | |
| - 7 7
- /
- a 7 :
_ 7 : /
- -
7 - - : /

 

 

 

 

HOUSTON—Also enjoying the
stag gathering were D. Byrd
Gwinn, 65, John C. Yost, 65, and
Randall P. Jones, 65. Chapter
president Buck Ogilvie, 64, made
the arrangements.

 

speeches, several other guests were
recognized, including Mrs. Milburn Noell;
Drew Baur, 66, the current alumni
admissions director for the area; and his
father, Andrew Baur, 37, a former
member of the W&L Alumni Board of
Directors.

DALLAS. In the festive mood of the
approaching holiday season, alumni

HOUSTON—At the Forest Club
for a stag luncheon were Ben W.
Ditto, 43, Robert W. Davis Jr.,
30, George Faison, ‘41, and James
P. Morefield, °52.

 

WASHINGTON—A large audience
of alumni and their guests were
present for the talk on “The Future
of NATO and Western Europe” by
Dr. Milton Colvin, professor of
politics.

gathered at the Bent Tree Country Club
on Wednesday evening, Nov. 28, for
cocktails and dinner. The guest of honor
for the occasion was Dean Edward C.
Atwood whose remarks about the “Good
News and Bad News at W&L” were
enthusiastically received. The arrange-
ments were made by president J.

Harvey Allen Jr., 61, who introduced
Dean Atwood and advised the alumni of

some of the chapter activities—particularly
in the student recruitment area. Also in
attendance was Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn, '40.

FORT WORTH. Dr. Edward C.
Atwood, Dean of the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics at Washington and
Lee was special guest and speaker at an
alumni luncheon at the Century II Club on
Nov. 29. An enthusiastic group of alumni
enjoyed Atwood’s up-to-date report of
events at the University. Also in
attendance was Bill Washburn, 40, alumni
secretary. Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58,
president of the chapter, made the
arrangements for the affair and acted as
master of ceremonies for the day.

WASHINGTON. Dr. Milton Colvin,
professor of political science at Washington
and Lee, was the speaker for a lecture
meeting of the W&L alumni in
Washington on Thursday, Nov. 29, at the
new Four Seasons Hotel in Georgetown.
Chapter president Jay Meriwether
introduced Colvin, who spoke about
Western Europe and the future of NATO.
His speech was brief and stimulated a
number of questions from the audience at
its conclusion. After the question-and-
answer period, cocktails were served in an
adjoining room, providing an opportunity
for further discussion with the speaker.
Interested members of the audience
included Linwood Holton, 44, and
assistant alumni secretary Buddy Atkins,
68. Plans were announced by the chapter
to continue the lecture meetings on a
regular basis in the future.

HOUSTON. Setting the stage for a
merry holiday season, the chapter
entertained with a stag luncheon in honor
of Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary, on
Friday, Nov. 30. The event was held at the
Forest Club where an enthusiastic group
of alumni were pleased to hear an up-to-
date report of the campus. The
arrangements were made by chapter
president Buck Ogilvie, ‘64, who
announced, at the conclusion of the
meeting, plans for the chapter soon after
the New Year.

21

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

> or “office. Tt is a “welcome ‘gift for.

 

econ Frc rom

Chi of : dl 1e chair goes to the scholarship fund in -
memory of fJohn Gr ahz -

am, 1 4,

 

 

BOSTON ROCKER”
All black lac

$75. 00 fob. Lexing , ston,

 

      

 
 
 
        

M ail your order to
N AND LEE ALUMNI, ING.
Mi gton, Virginia 2445 0

 

 

from eae stock will be made Soa your check.

 

s, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All oe

 

 

 

 

  

 

     

  
 
 
  
 
 

 

ve ly engaged though retires work, including

“duties at his church and ata day center oe senior

8 malt or C ar
; Community services and offices
| for the mare au for Reson al I

 

Rurus H. SHUMATE, ‘of Pearsburg, Va., isa mem-
ber of the board of caneeva of First Virginia Bank,

   
 

 

 

 

 

1943

WALTER R. BROWDER, vice president of com-
munications for Pardee Construction Co., has re-
ceived the Sanford B. Goodkin Award for out-
standing achievement in marketing in the San
Diego County homebuilding industry. The award
recognizes “outstanding achievement in ethics,
professionalism and performance” in the housing
industry. Browder joined Pardee, a subsidiary of
Weyerhaeuser Co., in 1972. He heads Walter
Browder Communications as well, the firm’s ad-
vertising agency. Browder has served on the mar-
keting committee of the National Association of
Homebuilders.

1944

Virginia Supreme Court Justice ALEX M. HARMAN
Jr., has announced that he will retire Dec. 31,
1979. Harman will accept senior, part-time status.
His successor will be appointed by the General
Assembly when it meets early next year. Harman
became justice in October 1969. He was a Pulaski
County Circuit judge when he was appointed to
the high court by the then-Governor Mills E.
Godwin Jr. Harman received praise from many
quarters in the state and Gov. Dalton, in accepting
Harman’s retirement, stated “your career has been
a credit to the bar and the bench of Virginia.”

1945

HARRY F. BROWN Jr. is working as a buyer for
DuPont Company in Aiken, S.C.

1946

Dr. L. REX CRIMINALE is a professor of Romance
Languages at Elmira College and is a man of many
varied interests including music, the theatre and
gourmet cooking. Criminale was president of the
Elmira Symphony and Choral Society for eight
years and is currently the co-treasurer of the group.
He sings in the choir at the First Presbyterian
Church and is a deacon there. Criminale, the
president of Phi Beta Kappa at Elmira, has spent
several years in Europe supervising the Junior
Year Abroad program.

1949

BRIAN BELL, after four years as Counselor for
Public Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Santiago,
Chile, has now been transferred to an identical
position in Lagos, Nigeria.

1950

Dr. CHARLES F. A. MCCLUER Jr. lives in Fort
Worth, Texas, where he is in the practice of der-
matology.

1951

MERRITT ABRASH is founder and co-editor of Al-
ternative Futures: The Journal of Utopia Studies,
a scholarly quarterly published by Rensselaer
Polytechnic Institute.

Tyson L. Janney, '53, receives
Recognition Award from
Baltimore’s Mayor William D.
Schaefer.

JOHN A. F. HALL of Wellsville, Pa., is employed

by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as deputy’

attorney general. He is an avid skier.

1952

FRANK BARRON, an executive with the Coca-Cola
Co. in Rome, Ga., is serving as president of the
Rome area Chamber of Commerce and also as
district vice president of the Georgia State Cham-
ber of Commerce.

 

1953

JUDGE HuGH S. GLICKSTEIN, formerly of the 17th
Judicial Circuit of Florida, has been named by
Gov. Graham to the Fourth District Court of Ap-
peals. In addition to Glickstein, there are two
other Washington and Lee appellate judges in
Florida—Judge Gavin K. Letts, ’51, also of the
Fourth District, and Judge Robert P. Smith Jr.,
54, who sits on the First District Court of Appeals.

TYSON L. JANNEY, executive vice president of

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, "70, Smith, Robinson & Vinyard,
117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Atlanta—Fleming Keefe, 61, The Keefe Co., 1900 Emery St.,
N.W., Suite 208, Atlanta, Ga. 30318

Augusta-Rockingh Ross V. Hersey, 40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—William F. Rienhoff IV, 74, Baker Watts & Co., Cal-
vert & Redwood Sts., Baltimore, Md. 21203
Birmingham—David R. Pittman, "75, The John G. Pittman Agency,
1101 S. 22nd St., Birmingham, Ala. 35204

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, ’69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl. Bank
of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, ’74, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston, $.C.—Rutherford P. C. Smith, 68, ’"74L, P.O. Box
10867, Charleston, S.C. 29411

Charleston, W. Va.—Louie A. Paterno, 65, '68L, P.O. Box 2791,
Charleston, W. Va. 25330

Charlotte—Lat W. Purser, ’73, 1659 Scotland Ave., Charlotte,
N.C. 28207

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, ’72L, 111 Maclellan Bldg.,
721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’65L, Winston and Strawn, One
First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, II]. 60603
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, '56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—John H. Tisdale, ’74, Rollins, Wenner &
Price, 5 West Church St., Frederick, Md. 21701

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., 61, P.O. Box 344-108, Dallas, Texas
75234

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, °75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—Enrnest I. Cornbrooks III, 67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisbury, Md. 21801

Detroit—James W. Large, ’68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern Kentucky—John R. Bagby, '73, 1107 First Natl. Bank
Bldg., Lexington, Ky. 40507

Eastern North Carolina—Walter Lockhart III, ‘69, 2901 Arnold
Rd., Durham, N.C. 27707

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, ’73, 3824 San Juan,
Tampa, Fla. 33609

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream—Mercer K. Clarke, ’66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr., 64, 11847 Memorial Dr.,
Houston, Texas 77024

Jacksonville—Charles E. Commander III, 62, 3839 Ortega Blvd.,
Jacksonville, Fla. 32210

Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, 71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock—William F. Rector Jr., "70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205

Long Island—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., ’41, 174 Parsons Dr.,
Hempstead, L.I., N.Y. 11550

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., "70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—E. Starke Sydnor, 66, P.O. Box 958, Lynchburg, Va.
24505

Mid-South—Jody Brown, '65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., ‘67, Braid Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbreun St., Nashville, Tenn. 37215
Mobile—McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601

Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, 72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass., 02149

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, 68, 200 Carondelet St.,
New Orleans, La. 70130

New York—John M. Ellis, 56, HAUS International, 1212 Avenue
of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, 61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—John Madison Jr., '64, Wiener, Weiss,
Madison & Howell, 411 Commercial National Bank Bldg., Shreve-
port, La. 71101

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, 66, Abbott & McMurry, 414
Park/Harvey Center, Oklahoma City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 129 LeHane
Terrace, North Palm Beach, Fla. 33408

Palmetto—A. G. “Joe” Wilson, ’69, 2825 Wilton Rd., W. Columbia,
S.C. 29169

Peninsula—Phillip M. Dowding, 52, 10 Butler Place, Newport
News, Va. 23606

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, Suite 250, 222 S. Tarragona,
Pensacola, Fla. 32573

Philadelphia—Edward W. Coslett III, ’70, 35 Langston Lane,
Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, 73, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.,
Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnston, 56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond—Robert H. Yevich, "70, 10220 Apache Rd., Richmond,
Va. 23235

Roanoke—James M. Turner Jr., ’67, "71L, 2913 Lockridge Rd.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington, Va.
24450

St. Louis—Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., 66, First National Bank
of St. Louis, P.O. Box 267, St. Louis, Mo. 63166

San Antonio—H. Drake Leddy, '71, Arthur Andersen & Co., 425
Soledad St., Suite 600, San Antonio, Texas 78205
Shenandoah—James R. Denny III, 73, The Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society, 1015 Berryville Ave., Suite 3, Winchester, Va. 22601
South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, ’74, P. O. Box
695, Greenville, S. C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, 53, Box 1762, Santa
Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Smith Hickenlooper III, 64, Bartlett & Co., 120
E. Fourth St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45202

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr., 54, 60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531

Tidewater—William P. Ballard Jr., "73, 409 Yarmouth St., Norfolk,
Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, '69L, Box 1835, Huntington, W.
Va. 25701

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, ’78, 2513 E. 18th St., Tulsa, Okla.
74104

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, ’70, Arthur Andersen & Co.,
1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, 53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abi-
lene, Texas 79605

Wisconsin—Price M. Davis Jr., 36, 10060 N. Range Line Rd.,
Mequon, Wisc. 53092

23

 

-

 

 

‘ATION TO ALL ALUMNI
E THE STATE OF FLORIDA

 

 

 

—

 

 

 

CALVERT G. DECOLIGNY JR. has been
named a development associate for Wash-
ington and Lee by the University Board of
Trustees. His regional specialty will be the
northeastern United States; in that capa-
city, he succeeds E. Stewart Epley, who
will assume the duties of University Treas-
urer on Jan. 1. DeColigny is also executive
vice president of Associated Drilling Inc.,
located in Johnstown, Pa. He makes his
home in Ligioner, Pa.

 

 

 

WINSTON E. KOCck Jr. has joined PMI in San
Francisco, Calif., as manager of PMI Securities
Co. in charge of sales and marketing their mort-
gage-back certificates.

1962

ALAN M. Corwin of Olympia, Wash. , is active in
amateur theatre. He recently appeared in the play
The Best Man by Gore Vidal as the character
Blades. He also serves on several school board
committees.

THORNS CRAVEN and his wife made a 400-mile
bicycle tour of the Chesapeake Peninsula in Oc-
tober 1979. The Cravens live in Winston-Salem,
N.C.

LESLIE H. PEARD III is in his first year with E. F.
Hutton and Co. in Fresno, Calif.

JAMEs S. SAGNER has joined the management con-
sulting firm of A. T. Kearney in Chicago, IIl., as a
transportation consultant.

JAMES H. STARKEY III has been appointed Deputy
Under Secretary of Agriculture for International
Affairs. He lives in Glen Dale, Md.

E. MONTGOMERY (MONTY) TUCKER, a Newport
News, Va., native, had been appointed acting U.S.
attorney for the Western District of Virginia. He
will serve in this capacity until a formal replace-
ment is named by the President. Tucker has been
an assistant U.S. attorney for six years. Prior to
1973, he was in the private law practice with the
Richmond law firm of Hunton and Williams.

1964

RICHARD C. COLTON JR. has been named manager
of marketing for Lykes Bros. Steamship Co. Colton
joined the Lykes organization in 1964 and has
completed the company’s management training
program. He served a two-year tour of duty as the
Owner's representative in Japan, and in 1972 re-
turned to the United States to join the newly-
created Lykes SEABEE Division as traffic man-
ager. He was transferred to the marketing depart-
ment as assistant manager in 1978.

ALVIN B. HUTZLER has been elected president of

   

J. T. Winebrenner, ’64.

the Young Executive Division of the National As-
sociation of Tobacco Distributors.

CHARLES B.: SAVAGE, with First Alabama Bank
Shares Inc. in Montgomery, Ala., is serving as
director of the corporate banking division, director
of industrial development division, president of
First Alabama Life Insurance Company Inc., and
president of First Alabama Bank Agency Inc.

JOHN T. WINEBRENNER has been promoted to
general manager of the Hong Kong regional office
of R. J. Reynolds Tobacco International Inc. For-
merly group brand manager for R. J. Reynolds, he
will be responsible for marketing and sales in the
Hong Kong area. Winebrenner joined the company
in 1973. He holds a law degree from Georgetown
University.

REX H. WOOLDRIDGE has become a principal in
the Houston, Texas, architectual firm of KWA Inc.

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES M. SLAy JR., ason,
James Matthew III, on April 8, 1979, in St.
Michaels, Md. Slay is an attorney with the firm of
Henry, Hairston and Price in Easton, Md.

VICTOR GALEF is group product manager in charge
of all nutritional products of Miles Laboratories.

1966
MARRIAGE: CHARLES N. BENSINGER JR. and
Sharon Goldblatt on Aug. 25, 1979, in Louisville,
Ky.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. Court SOLOFF, a
daughter, Melissa Leigh, on Nov. 10, 1978, in San
Angelo, Texas.

DONALD HUFFMAN was appointed by Gov. John
Dalton to the Virginia State Board of Corrections.
Huffman is an attorney in Roanoke.

GRAYSON C. POWELL JR. has been elected presi-
dent of the Halifax County Little Theatre in South
Boston, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RANDALL L. Prior, a
daughter, Margaret Clotilde, on Oct. 4, 1979. Prior
is vicar of St. Andrew’s Episcopal Church in Burke,
Va.

Dr. Gary B. Boxinsky has entered private prac-
tice in Richmond, Va., after two years as assistant
chief of urology at the National Naval Medical
Center in Bethesda, Md.

Guy M. GLENN isa partner in Pacific Shrimp Inc. ,
a seafood processing firm in Long Beach, Wash.

1968

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Paut A. BROWER, a

Class Notes

daughter, Meredith Ashley, on Sept. 20, 1979.
Brower is a partner in the South Coast Urological
Group in Laguna Beach, Calif.

1969
MARRIAGE: JOHN S. FECHNAy and Peggy Ann
Eacho in June 1979. The couple now resides in
Washington, D.C. He expects to receive an
M.B.A. degree from the University of Virginia
next May.

ROBERT A. MOSELLE has formed a partnership for
the general practice of law in San Francisco.

HUBERT H. YOUNG Jr. has moved to Suffolk, Va.,
where he is working with his family real estate
business and beginning a law practice.

1970
MARRIAGE: Dr. STUART L. PORTER and Terry
Lynn Henning on Aug. 23, 1979, in Verona, Va.,
where they live. Porter is director of the animal
technology program at Blue Ridge Community
College in Weyers Cave, Va.

B. WAUGH CRIGLER has been elected president of
the Culpeper, Va., Bar Association for 1979-80.

W. FOSTER GAILLARD was elected to the city
council of Charleston, S.C. He is a partner in the
law firm of Gibbs, Gaillard, Rowell and Tanen-
baum.

Dr. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN is in the practice of

general and vascular surgery with offices in Eden,
N.C.

Davip D. KyMPTON is chairman of the 1980 fund
raising campaign of the Richmond Area Chapter of
the American Heart Association.

ROGER S. MARTIN, a graduate of Duke University’s
School of Law and a practicing attorney in Char-
lottesville, Va., has been appointed associate legal
adviser for the University of Virginia. Martin, who
is with the law firm of McGuire, Woods & Battle,
will assist university legal adviser George G. Grat-
tan IV on legal matters involving the institution.

E. MONTGOMERY (MONTY) TUCKER (See 1962.)

1971

MARRIAGE: JOHN D. COPENHAVER JR. and Mar-
sha Aleeta Childs on Aug. 18, 1979, in the First
Methodist Church in Winchester, Va. Copenhaver
received his master’s degree from Fuller Seminary
in Pasadena, Calif., and is now a Methodist
preacher in White Post, Va. The Copenhavers live
in nearby Boyce.

REV. JEFFREY B. SPENCE is the new executive
director of the National Conference of Christians
and Jews for the greater Kansas City region. He
has also been appointed by the national board of

25

/
|

 

 

 

 

 

Be

 

 

 

At the wedding of Erik S. Greenbaum, ’78, were
(1st row) Scott Devening, 79, Ricky Wallerstein,
°80, Mike Cleary, ’78,. Erik Greenbaum, Kevin
Lamb, ’78, Ed Dougherty, ’79; (2nd row)
Harvey Kay, 79, Ed Jordan, ’80, Sandy Harcus,

77; (3rd row) Bill Turner, ’78, Sam Brown, ’76,

and drama at St. Anne’s-Belfield School in Char-
lottesville, Va.

W. HOWELL MorkaisONn recently passed the South
Carolina Bar Exam and is now a law clerk for a
federal judge in Charleston, S.C.

DouGLas R. MuIR was promoted in April 1979 to
audit senior in the Winston-Salem office of Price
Waterhouse and Co. He was licensed by the state
of North Carolina as a certified public accountant
in September 1978.

RUSHTON E. PATTERSON JR. is a fourth-year
medical student at the University of Tennessee
College of. Medicine in Memphis.

WILLIAM J. Rupy earned a B.A. in history, summa
cum laude, from Metropolitan State College in
Denver, Colo. He is now teaching sociology and
economics in Nebraska.

ROBERT F. SEARLES is a first lieutenant in the
U.S. Army Chemical Corps. In April 1980, he is to
report for duty in Germany as a brigade chemical

staff officer.

1977
MARRIAGE: T. PATRICK BRENNAN and Denyse
Pagels on Oct. 20, 1979, in Blue Point, N.Y. The
Brennans live at the Mark Twain Birthplace in
Stoutsville, Mo.

MARRIAGE: JOEL W. MOHRMAN and Carol
Simpson on Aug. 18, 1979, in Houston, Texas.
Many W&L alumni were members of the wedding
or in attendance, including the bride’s grandfather,
John M. Dockery, ’24. The couple lives in Dallas
where Mohrman is a law student at Southern
Methodist University.

JOHN D. ROSEN, after receiving an M.B.A. from

Northwestern University, is now associated with
Quaker Oats Co. in Chicago, IIl.

1978
MARRIAGE: Makk L. DICKEN and Barbara Lynn
Ward on Sept. 1, 1979, in Fortville, Ind. Attending
the wedding were classmates Bruce G. Perrone,
Francis C. Terwilliger, Scott L. Hamilton, Jeff D.
Harris, Mary Kay Harris, David P. Falck, and
Sally Pruett Falck, ’80L. Dicken is a law clerk to
Judge Patrick D. Sullivan, ’56, ’58L, on the Imliana
Court of Appeals. The couple lives in Indianapolis.

MARRIAGE: Erik S. GREENBAUM and Elizabeth
Truett on Aug. 11, 1979, in Richmond, Va. Class-
mates in the wedding were Bill Turner, Kevin
Lamb, Mike Cleary and Scott Devening. Green-
baum is in his last year of pharmacy school at the
Medical College of Virginia.

STUART L. CRAIG JR. is staff photographer for the
Bruce Coleman Co., a stock photo agency in New
York. He had worked as a free-lance photographer
and photography instructor in Nags Head, N.C.

Rudd Moore, ’80.

JAMES C. FOREMAN is working at J. Walter
Thompson Co. in Atlanta, Ga.

BRUCE A. KAYUHA completed a clerkship for Judge
J. Calvitt Clarke of the Eastern Virginia District of
the U.S. District Court. He is now associated with
the Norfolk law firm of Willcox, Savage, Lawrence,
Dickson and Spindle.

RICHARD B. MCDANIEL is teaching mathematics
and working in admissions at Woodberry Forest
School. He also coaches soccer and lacrosse.

1979

DouGLAs H. ADAMS is a medical student at the
Faculté Libre de Médicine in Lille, France.

J. PETER CLEMENTS is enrolling in the M.B.A.
program at William and Mary in January 1980.

LANDON R. WyatrT III is working in his family
business in Danville, Va. He plans to enter the
M.B.A. program at Northwestern or the University
of Virginia.

 

In Memoriam

 

1912
JAMES B. WHITFIELD, a long-time resident and
farmer in Demopolis, Ala., died Oct. 23, 1979.
Whitfield also ran a Ford agency in Demopolis
from 1918 to 1927.

1914

L. BERKELEY Cox, prominent attorney and retired
general counsel of Aetna Life and Casualty Co.,
died Oct. 25, 1979, in West Hartford, Conn. Cox
had an inspiring career, including teaching posi-
tions at McCaullie School in Chattanooga, St. Al-
bans School in Washington, D.C., and as assistant
professor of law at Washington and Lee. Between
1921-1925 he was a practicing attorney in Rich-
mond, Va., and then joined Aetna. Cox was a former
chairman of both the Hartford Housing Authority
and the Connecticut State Housing Authority. He
was also a former trustee of the Hartford Seminary
Foundation. During World War I, Cox served as
lieutenant in the 6th Infantry of the U.S. Army
and was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross,
the Silver Star Citation, and the Order of the
Crown (Belgium). Cox had retired from Aetna in
1959.

1915

MADISON PETTIGREW COE, a retired member of
the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System, died Oct. 28, 1979, in Alexandria, Va. An
alumnus of great enthusiasm, he was a frequent

 

visitor to campus and a staunch supporter of the
Washington, D.C., alumni chapter. He also served
as aclass agent for the Annual Fund. Coe began his
professional career in 1915, with a teaching position
in Henry County, Va., and served with the U.S.
Army during World War I. He was an avid sports
fan and tennis player in the Washington area until
just a few years ago. Coe was a member of the
official Board of Mt. Vernon Place United Metho-
dist Church.

LAMAR POLK, a life-long resident of Rapides Parish
and a prominent attorney of Alexandria, La., died
there Nov. 6, 1979. During World War I, Polk
served on the Mexican border. He opened his law
practice in Alexandria in 1919 and continued prac-
ticing there until 1977. He was a charter member
of the Louisiana Department of the American Le-
gion and the George M. Simmons Post 3 which
awarded him honorary membership after 50 years
of continuous service. Polk was chairman of the
city's first recreation committee and was a member
of the charter commission which proposed the first
Home Rule Charter for the City of Alexandria.
Polk served as chairman of the parish Democratic
party committee from 1924 to 1964, a member of
the parish school board for 14 years, and president
of the board for six years. He served as judge for
the Ninth Judicial District Court for a year by
gubernatorial appointment. After serving on the
board of the Federal Land Bank Association for 20
years as its president and chairman, Polk was
elected a member emeritus. In 1976 he was named.
“Man of the Year” by the Louisiana Council of
Farm Cooperatives.

1922

MATTHEW C. G. HENDERSON, a long-time resi-
dent of Norfolk, Va., and formerly in the printing
business, died June 1, 1979. Henderson saw active
duty in World War II with the 2nd Armored Divi-
sion. He was a former class agent for Washington
and Lee’s Annual Fund.

TROY CORNELIUS MUSSELWHITE, a prominent
attorney in Orlando, Fla., died June 22, 1979.
After receiving his law degree from Harvard Uni-
versity, Musselwhite returned to Orlando, where
he remained a practicing attorney. He was amem-
ber of the American Bar, the Florida Bar and the
Orange County Bar Association. From 1932 to
1967, Musselwhite served as city attorney for the
City of Apopka, Fla. He was a former U.S. Com-
missioner, Orlando Division, of the U.S. District
Court, and a past president of the Young Demo-
cratic Club of Orlando. For many years Mussel-
white served as class agent for the Washington and
Lee Annual Fund.

1924

PAUL LANGDON BOCK, a retired executive and
consultant for Warner Co. of Philadelphia, Pa.,
died Oct. 26, 1979, in Chula Vista, Calif. Bock
spent his entire working career with Warner Co.
He held executive positions in production, sales,

27

In Memoriam

research and development. He had taken an early
retirement from the company, but was retained as
a consultant.

1927

ARTHUR VINCENT KINNEY, former sales manager
for the Veneer Products Co. and one-time treas-
urer and manager of F. E. Prince Co., manufac-
turers of fruit and vegetable crates, died June 27,
1979, in Payette, Idaho.

EDWARD STONESTREET LAMAR, a retired senior
scientist with the Navy Department, died Aug.
16, 1979, at the Arlington Hospital. Lamar joined
the Navy Department as a scientific consultant
during World War II and remained in government
service until his retirement in 1975. His wartime
assignments took him to Pearl Harbor and London,
where he worked on underwater detection projects
with the British Admiralty as a civilian on the staff
of the U.S. Naval Attache. After the war, Lamar
was chief scientist at the Naval Electronics
Laboratory in San Diego, Calif. In 1955, he re-
turned to Washington, D.C., as a manager of naval
research programs. He was, successively, chief
scientist at the Navy’s Bureau of Ordnance, the
Naval Weapons Command, and the Naval Air Sys-
tems Command. On his retirement, he was
awarded the Navy’s Superior Civilian Award. La-
mar earned a masters degree in physics from
George Washington University and a doctorate in
physics from Princeton University. He taught at
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from
1936 until the start of his government career in
1941. He had published papers on chemical kine-
tics, optics, operations research and other topics.

N. MAXSON TERRY, a prominent attorney in
Dover, Del., died Sept. 12, 1979. Terry was ad-
mitted to the Delaware Bar in 1929 and was a
member of the law firm of Terry & Terry from 1933
to 1939. Since 1939, he had been with the firm of
Terry, Terry & Jackson. He was chief attorney for
the Delaware Public Service Commission, 1951-
55; a member of the Delaware Board of Bar Ex-
aminers, 1955-74; attorney for Kent County Dela-
ware Highway Department, 1957-61; and a former
member of the advisory board for the Wilmington
Trust Co.

1929

WILLIAM CLINTON OGBURN, formerly of Ho-Ho-
Kus, N.J., and a construction engineer, died July
5, 1979 in Sussex. He had been retired for some
years. Ogburn had been an Explorer Scout Master,
and both elder and deacon in the Ho-Ho-Kus
Dutch Reformed Church.

Dr. ROBERT HARDIN WILLIAMS, an internation-
ally known medical scientist and one of the builders
of the University of Washington School of Medi-
cine, died Nov. 4, 1979, on an airliner enroute to
Philadelphia. In Philadelphia he was scheduled to
help in the diagnosis of a complex medical case.
Williams was an internationally known endocri-

28

nologist, specializing in diabetes. He also was
prominent in antithyroid drug research. He joined
the University of Washington in 1948 and became
the head of the department of medicine at the
University of Washington Medical School. He
served as a professor of medicine from 1948 to
1975, simultaneously serving as head of the division
of endocrinology and metabolism. In 1972, Wil-
liams became director and principal founder of the
university s Diabetes Research Institute. He was a
co-founder of the National Institute of Medicine
and a co-founder of the Council of Academic So-
cieties. Williams received numerous awards and
honors from medical associations throughout the
nation. He published more than 300 papers, ar-
ticles or books of medical research.

1933

CLARENCE S. Woops, owner of Manufacturers
Sales Co. in Greensboro, N.C., a manufacturers
representative firm, died Aug. 10, 1979. Prior to
his operation of Manufacturers Sales Co., Woods
was associated with Woods Coffee Co., a family
concern, from 1932 until 1952. During World War
II he served with the U.S. Maritime Service.

1936

JOHN WESLEY VARDAMAN, prominent practicing
attorney in Anniston, Ala., died May 4, 1979.
Vardaman was admitted to the Alabama bar in
1938 and between 1939 and 1943 served as assistant
attorney general for the state. He had been a
member of the law firm of Merrill, Merrill & Var-
daman in Anniston since 1943. He was a past
chairman of the Board of Trustees of Alabama
District IV—TB Hospital and a former director of
the Commercial National Bank.

1938

Cyrus V. ANDERSON, retired vice president-law
for Pittsburgh Plate Glass Industries Inc. of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., died Oct. 21, 1979. Anderson served
in the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department
of Justice from 1939 to 1942. He saw active duty
with the U.S. Navy during World War II, serving
with the amphibious forces in the Mediterranean.
He became associated with Pittsburgh Plate Glass
Industries in 1945 and held several executive posi-
tions in the legal department. Active in the Ameri-
can Bar Association, Anderson was a former co-
chairman of the Special Committee on Complex
and Multi-District Litigation; chairman of the Sec-
tion of Antitrust Law; chairman of the Sherman
Act Committee, American Bar Antitrust Section,
and he was a member of the Attorney General's
National Committee for study of antitrust laws. He
was also a member of the advisory board of the
Bureau of National Affairs in Washington since
1965, and also served on the advisory board for the
Antitrust and Trade Regulation Report.

EDWARD L. MEISTER JR., the president of a small
publishing company in Willoughby, Ohio, died

Aug. 10, 1979. The company publishes several
journals for the American Fruit Growers and
American Vegetable Growers.

BERNARD J. POLLMAN III, former president of a
large insurance agency in Wickenburg, Ariz., died
in May 1979. Pollman had served as treasurer of
the Wickenburg Economic Enterprises, an in-
dustrial park non-profit corporation, as well as the
Wickenburg Sun. He was a past president of the
Rotary Club and the Chamber of Commerce.

1939

CHARLES DANIEL TOLLEY, who retired this sum-
mer after 16 years as principal of Central Elemen-
tary School in Lexington, Va., died June 28, 1979.
After teaching biology and science at Staunton
Military Academy, Tolley returned to Lexington
as an instructor in biology, geology and geography
at Washington and Lee. He interrupted his teach-
ing career to serve as an industrial geologist for the
Tidewater Associated Oil Co. Tolley returned to
education as a teacher and principal in Waynesboro
City Schools and then as principal of Staunton’s
North Side Elementary School. In 1962 he return-
ed to Rockbridge County to assume the post of
principal of Central Elementary School. In June
1979, the Rockbridge County School Board pre-
sented Tolley a certificate of commendation for his
years of loyal, unselfish and superior service to the
children of the county.

1940

CURTIS TOLLEY MONTGOMERY SR., a native of
Rockbridge County, Va., died April 5, 1979. He
was technical director for Reeves Brothers Inc.,
Vulcan Division, and a member of the American
Chemical Society. During World War II, he served
in the U.S. Army in the European Theatre. He
was a member of the Buena Vista Presbyterian
Church, where he served as an elder for many
years.

1941

W. GuTHRIE MCCULLOUGH, a former member of
the law firm of Everett & Everett in Atlanta, Ga.,
and a former U.S. Attorney for the Northern Dis-
trict of Ga., died Sept. 5, 1979.

1945

WILLIAM HENRY STARK of Orange, Texas, died
Sept. 25, 1979, in Houston, following an extensive
illness. Stark was the son of the late H. J. Lutcher
Stark, decendant of a pioneer southeast Texas tim-
ber magnate. The H. J. Lutcher Stark Foundation
has been responsible for the Stark Museum of Art
and the Frances Ann Theatre in Orange. Stark was
on the board of directors of the First City National
Bank, past president of the Girl’s Haven Board of
Directors and a past president of the board of
directors of the Sunset Grove Country Club. He
was also a former Sinclair Oil bulk distributor and
an avid hunter and fisherman.

Shenandoah

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

Shenandoah

$1.50

 

 

Wiiters of this stature appear
in SHENANDOAH:
ROBERT PENN WARREN
ALLEN TATE

PETER TAYLOR
ELIZABETH BISHOP
Roy FULLER

ROBERT LOWELL
RICHARD HOWARD
REYNOLDS PRICE

W. S. MERWIN

JOYCE CAROL OATES

Two stories that appeared in
SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards
for distinguished brief fiction.

W on’t you subscribe to Wash-
ington and Lee University’s

award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and
criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

 

Shenandoah
The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
LJ] One year @ $5.00
My check for $

enclosed.

L] Two years @ $8.00

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

State Zip

I go on admiring [Shenandoah], none in the

country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

I can think offhand of only two or three uni-
versity-financed reviews in which the impact
of a strong editorial personality has created a
vital magazine. The examples that come to
my mind are those of David Ray and the
strong social-radical consciousness he has
brought to the editing of New Letters for the
University of Missouri at Kansas City; of the
elegant and rather patrician standards James
Boatwright has given to Shenandoah at
Washington and Lee; and of Robin Skelton,
who has brought such a distinctively inter-
national flavor to the Malahat Review at the

University of Victoria in British Columbia.
—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America: A Modern
Documentary History (TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

You are the best “little” magazine in the

country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories. . . . Sixteen were first published in
the pages of little magazines, quarterly re-
views, irregularly issued periodicals reaching
a small, a very small, readership. (Shenan-
doah, for example, one of the best of these
magazines from which I have taken two
stories, prints approximately one thousand

copies of each quarterly issue.)
—William Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

Dr. Robert Coles, child psychiatrist and
author, is, by his own description, one of
those “Yankees who went south and fell in
love with the region.” He is a loyal subscriber
to several “good southern literary quarter-
lies”: The Sewanee Review... The Southern
Review . . . The Georgia Review; and Shen-

andoah.”
—‘Where Opinion Makers Get Their Opinions,”
Esquire, June 5, 1979

a9

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

_ (USPS 667-040) _
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

OL

we: RG
DS Wek
| AREER

&
iy

!

sg : v 3
e —GioZy
a Kae

  
  

 
 
       
    

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

Mr Stephen § Hahn
New Liorary

90, 49
9, © M x ° ww cyass?® 496 pest’
4960» \ chasse
2) ger” 499? esals Ss
\

 

 

 

