 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of wash

ington an

Tom PAPA en)

MAY 1977

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 52, Number 4, May 1977

William C. Washburn, 400.0000... eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, "68.00.0000... Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel.................... Editorial Assistants
Sally Mann oii... cteeceeeeeeseeees Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Lewis Hall Dedication ...................... 1
“Jockey John” and the Judge ................ 13
Feeding of the 1,500 ....................008. 16
John Stemmons Retires ..................... 17
Spring Reunions 77 ...... 0... eee eee eee ee 18
W&L Gazette ...... eee eee 20
Alumni Association Meeting ................. 23
Chapter News ......... 0... 0c cece eee eee es 25
Class Notes ........ 0... cece eee eee ee 27
In Memoriam ............ 0.2... c ee eee eee eee 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpwIN J. FoLtz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

ROBERT M. WHITE II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President

JERRY G. Soutu,’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

FRED Fox BENTON Jr., 60, Houston, Tex.
WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DENNY, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, ’58, Richmond, Va.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HOLL Is, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEy R. Mauzy Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.

ON THE COVER: Lewis Hall, the spacious and
modern new home of the School of Law, and the two
generous people, Frances and Sydney Lewis, who
made the building possible. Lewis Hall was dedi-
cated on May 7 in memorable ceremonies attended
by 1,500 alumni and guests. A report on the event

begins on the opposite page. Photographs by Sally
Manan.

 

 

 

Washington and Lee formally dedicated Lewis Hall,
its new law building, on May 7—during an activity-
filled weekend that included the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association with election of officers for 1977-
78 and the presentation of three Distinguished
Alumnus Awards, the regular spring meeting of the
University’s Board of Trustees, Law Day observances
with the 29th annual John Randolph Tucker Lecture
in Law, and the annual meeting of the Law School
Association.

The $8-million, 121,600-square-foot building was
completed last summer and put into use when classes
began last September.

The facility is named for Sydney and Frances Lewis
of Richmond, who gave $9 million to W&L’s law
program in 1972 to support construction of the build-
ing. Their gift also established a permanent
endowment for a law center, named for Frances Lewis,
for the study of problems “at the frontiers of the law.”

Sydney Lewis is a 1940 Washington and Lee
graduate and is a member of the Board of Trustees.
Together, the Lewises founded Best Products Inc., the
nationwide catalogue-showroom retail chain. Mr. Lewis
is its board chairman and chief executive officer, and
Mrs. Lewis is Best’s executive vice president.

Lewis Hall, as an estimated 1,500 guests—law
alumni, representatives of the bar and state and federal

 

Photographs by Sally Mann

‘The
Dedication
of Lewis Hall

An Auspicious and Historic
Day in the Life of WSL

Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. accepts Lewis Hall on behalf of the Board of
Trustees at dedication ceremonies on the lawn in front of the new building; ap-
proximately 1,500 guests attended.

 

courts, legal educators from throughout the East, and
large numbers of other friends of W&L and the
Lewises—saw first-hand, is a comfortable, attractive
building that is also functionally efficient—designed to
eliminate every obstacle which might make the
student’s and teacher’s work difficult or inconvenient.

It will accommodate 350 students and 20
professors, the size law school W&L has identified as
ideal for a program of the character-of Washington
and Lee’s. (This year, there are 263 men and women
enrolled in the School of Law; the University plans to
increase the size of the first-year law class gradually
over the coming years until the optimum 350-student
population is reached.)

Every student has his or her own study carrel, wired
with the capability to accept every known kind of elec-
tronic and audio-visual intormation-retrieval system.
There are five major classrooms, two for as many as 75
students and three for 50, and a large number of
smaller seminar and conference rooms as well.

The 50,500-square-foot law library is named for the
late Wilbur C. Hall, the eminent law alumnus who died
in 1972 and bequeathed more than $1.5 million,
representing almost his entire estate, to the University.
The library has a capacity of 270,400 volumes (the law
collection now includes 167,000 books) and 800,000
“non-book” resources—microfilm and other ultra-
miniaturized materials. The law library’s media-control
center is connected to the student carrels, the Moot
Court Room, the classrooms, and all Lewis Hall’s other
facilities by more than 88 miles of under-floor cable.

‘The Moot Court Room, which is in fact a “court-
room of the future,” is perhaps Lewis Hall’s showpiece.
It was designed in precise detail according to what
experts have determined to be the best possible
physical arrangement. The room is semi-circular in

shape, with seating in tiers; the judges’ bench, jury box,
and defense and prosecution areas are carefully located
for maximum efficiency. Judges’ private chambers and
the jury deliberation area adjoin the courtroom itself.
The Moot Court Room 1s equipped with the capacity tc
produce and transmit all courtroom activity by closed-
circuit television and to videotape the proceedings for
future reference.

The dedication ceremony took place outdoors, on
the lawn in front of the main entrance to Lewis Hall
(Lewis Hall faces Wilson Field to the southwest). Dr.
John Newton Thomas, Rector Emeritus of the W&L
Board of Trustees and friend of his fellow
Richmonders, the Lewises, delivered the invocation,
praying that those who teach and learn in Lewis Hall
may be given the grace to “follow in the footsteps of
distinguished predecessors who have made such great
contribution to the framing of law with wisdom, to the
interpretation of law with learning and integrity, and to
the administration of law with equity.”

It was fitting that on an extraordinary occasion, the
remarks—by Sydney Lewis and Frances Lewis, by E.
Marshall Nuckols Jr., Rector of the board, by Supreme
Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., a W&L graduate and
board member and also a fellow Richmonder of the
Lewises’, by President Huntley, and by Roy L. Stein-
heimer Jr., Dean of the School of Law—were fittingly,
similarly extraordinary They were brief; they were
from the heart; they said many things about Washing-
ton and Lee that perhaps had not been articulated
quite so effectively before, that perhaps could be put
into words only on an occasion such as the dedication
of Lewis Hall.

Those remarks constitute the finest report of the
dedication, and of what the dedication ceremonies
were meant to symbolize.

 

or ; : ra des

View of Lewis Hall from Wilson Field; Blue Ridge Mountains are in the background.

2

 

REMARKS
President Huntley

In many ways this occasion is the ceremonial and
symbolic indicium of a dream come true. We are here to
give official and formal recognition to the opening of
this handsome structure which now houses our School
of Law, to proclaim officially that it shall be named
Lewis Hall, to declare that the activities of legal
research and scholarship for which the Lewises have
provided special endowments shall be known as the
Frances Lewis Law Center, and to rededicate the Wash-
ington and Lee School of Law to pursue the ideals of
its traditions and our collective aspirations for its
future.

With us today to join us in this celebration are many
special persons from our studeut body, from our
faculty and administration, from our alumni, and from
that great body of loving friends of which Washington
and Lee can boast. Also with us are important repre-
sentatives of the bench and the bar. I wish I could
name and recognize each of these persons, but time
and numbers prevent that.

I shail especially note that we have here today
Washington and Lee’s able and dedicated Board of
Trustees, its Alumni Board of Directors, the Council of
our Law School Association.

Also here are justices of the Supreme Court of Vir-
ginia and judges of the United States 4th Circuit Court
of Appeals and representatives of both the federal and
state judiciary from this and other states.

We waimly greet also the friends and members of

the family of Frances and Sydney Lewis. We are
delighted you have graced us by your presence.

‘There are many people who have helped materially
in making this dream come true. I will name but a few.

@ The law library is named after the late Wilbur Halk,
a dedicated law alumnus. Indeed it was Wilbur Hall
who in many ways first perceived the need for this
structure and who dreamt of it as long as 20 years ago.
Before his death he was able to know that his dream
would reach fruition.

@' The late Ross L. Malone, Rector of our Board of
Trustees, distinguished alumnus, in whose memory
and recognition of whose service and generosity the
Ross L. Malone Visiting Attorney’s Office is named.

@Mr. and Mrs. Thomas D. Anderson. Tom
Anderson, a distinguished alumnus and a member of
our Board, in recognition of whose generosity and
service the Old Guard Classroom will be named,
honoring Protessors Moreland, Williams, McDowell,
Johnson, and Light.

@ Mr. and Mrs. T. Hal Clarke. Hal, another alum-
nus and member of our Board, in recognition of whose
generosity the T. Hal Clarke Seminar Room is named.

@ And in recognition of the service and generosity
of Lewis F. Powell, the Lewis F. Powell Conference
Room is named.

A few of the other significant benefactors who
made possible this dream are: Mr. James M. Ballengee;
the Claude Worthington Benedum Foundation; the
Berwind Corporation; Mr. W. O. Duvall; and with us
today, Mr. and Mrs. Donald McCaskey and Mr. and
Mrs. James P. Morefield.

From the estates of several friends and alumni came
additional assistance: J. J. Barrett, Walter McDonaid,
John E. Cole, Eldridge W. Poindexter.

I have some regrets on this occasion; perhaps one
of the profoundest is that the late Dean Charles P.
Light did not survive to see this day. I am glad that

 

a

A reception for law alumni, faculty, and students took place in the outer
courtyard of Lewis Hall on Friday afternoon before the dedication activities
on Saturday.

Mrs. Light is with us. And in the audience is Mrs.
Charles McDowell, known and beloved to all

of us in two capacities, as the wife of one of our

most beloved professors, the late Charles McDowell,
and as a tireless servant in her own right to our law
school—indeed, one whose identity has been sometimes
confused with that of the law school itself.

I would be remiss if I did not mention that the
quality of the fine work in this building was done
under the supervision of the George W. Kane
Company, the general contractor, and even more
remiss if I did not pay heed to our own D. E. “Pat”
Brady, whose meticulous attention to detail in the com-
pletion of this project really did much to make it
possible.

The architects, I think you will agree, have pulled
off both an artistic and functional achievement of great
magnitude. The architectural firm of Marcellus
Wright, Cox & Ladd; the landscape architectural firm
of Griswold, Winters, Swain & Mullin. From the archi-
tectural firm with us today are Mr. Mark Wright, Mr.
Fred Cox, and Mr. Ed Smith; and from the landscape
firm, Mr. Bill Swain, Mr. Bill Mullin, and Mr. Tom
Borellis. We are pleased to have all of you here.

It is now my pleasure to introduce to you the
chairman, whom we call the Rector, of our Board of
Trustees. He brings, in the tradition of our fine chair-
men, quiet and dynamic leadership to that group of
persons upon whom this school depends so much for
leadership and for sustenance. He is himself a distin-
guished alumnus of the College and the School of Law
and until his recent retirement had been general
counsel and senior vice president of the Campbell Soup
Company. It is my pleasure to introduce to you Mr. E.
Marshall Nuckols.

Frances and Sydney Lewis relax before the start of the ceremonies.

 

 

REMARKS
E. Marshall Nuckols
Rector of the Board of Trustees

Thank you, President Huntley. Mr. and Mrs.
Lewis, Mr. Justice Powell, Dean Steinheimer, ladies and
gentlemen.

I would like to join President Huntley in welcoming
all of you here today. This is a very auspicious and his-
toric occasion for Washington and Lee, and we are de-
lighted that so many of you have come to share it with
us.

Bob Huntley and I have been discussing for a
number of days what properly should be included in a
building dedication program. And I must say we are
somewhat confused on the subject. There seems to be a
curious anomaly in building dedications. They don’t
usually dedicate a building until it is a year or two old,
which sometimes seems a little anticlimatic. A ship is
christened when it is launched—before it ever takes its
maiden voyage. But you don’t dedicate a building until
its shakedown is well behind you. In this instance, the
law school has been occupying the building for almost a
full school year. And it has been known as Lewis Hall
for a great deal longer than that. But I am sure that at
this stage of the game, even if we tried, we couldn’t get
Dean Steinheimer out of the building; so I think we
will go ahead and formally dedicate it, and we are
delighted to be able to display it to all of you here
today.

I am pleased, privileged, and honored on behalf of
the Trustees formally to accept this magnificent
structure and to proclaim it to be Lewis Hall, the home
of Washington and Lee University’s School of Law. But
actually that formal dedication is only a small part of
our reason for our being here today. Our true purpose
is to honor those who made this day possible.

First and foremost are Frances and Sydney Lewis,

whose generous donations made possible the building
of this structure and who have endowed the law center.

Sydney Lewis graduated from Washington and Lee
with an A.B. degree in 1940, and he then attended the
law school until he decided that maybe business was
more his interest than law and transferred to the Har-
vard Business School. After that he went on to make a
spectacular success out of Best Products Company,
which today is the most successful operation of its type
in the country. And we would like to think that maybe
some small part of that success was due to the
education that he received here.

Frances and Sydney are two of the warmest, most
gentle, most genuine, most generous people that you
can possibly imagine. And they have completely
endeared themselves to the entire University family, of
which they are now an integral part. Washington and
Lee has had many benefactors in its long history, but
there are few whose gifts have been as great or have
been given so freely and unselfishly.

Frances and Sydney: the Trustees, the University,
the law school faculty, law students, and generations of
law students to come are and will be eternally grateful
to you for what you have done for this University.
There simply are not words to express our
appreciation adequately.

There are many others who deserve credit and only
a few can be named. Bob Huntley has mentioned some,
and I would like to mention a few more. First, Dr. Hus-
ton St. Clair, who was Rector or chairman of the Uni-
versity Trustees at the time the development program

for the decade of the ’70s was formulated. That
program called for raising $56 million by the end of
this decade, $36 million of it by 1976. It took strong
leadership, which Dr. St. Clair provided, and great
courage and foresight to adopt goals that were con-
siderably larger than the entire total that had been
raised in the University’s history up to that date. A new
law school was high on the list of projects that was in-
cluded in that program.

Next I would like to mention Dr. John Newton
Thomas, who succeeded Dr. St. Clair as Rector. To
Jack Thomas fell the task of getting this gigantic
undertaking on its way. And a considerable part of our
success is due to his leadership, which was inspira-
tional. Not only that; he traveled countless thousands
of miles calling on members of our Achievement
Council and major prospects, and he is still at it today
as Rector Emeritus and Trustee Emeritus. And I might
add that he has had the responsibility for seeing that
the weather is good today, and he has done a very good
job at it.

John Stemmons, a University trustee who was chair-
man of our Achievement Council. John formulated
strategy; he gave unstintingly of his time; he
continually exhorted his fellow Trustees, or cousins as
he calls them, to get out and run their trap lines. It was
John who emphasized that in a campaign of this kind it
is extremely important to get people to give from what
he called the southeast corner of their balance sheets—
in other words, to make gifts out of capital or net
worth, rather than just from income. And we have only

 

Members of the Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals judged the Burks Moot Court competition finals. Earlier in the day, the court heard four cases in a
session of its May Term in the Moot Court Room. The judges were Donald S. Russell, John A. Field Jr., and H. Emory Widener Jr., ’53L.

 

to look around us here today to get some idea how
much we owe to John Stemmons’ efforts.

Finally and in particular, I would like to mention a
person whom Bob Huntley has already mentioned, but
who deserves mentioning again, Ross Malone. A
former president of the American Bar Association and
general counsel of General Motors Corporation, Ross
succeeded Dr. Thomas as Rector. Despite failing health,
he labored diligently to carry the campaign to new
heights. Unfortunately, Ross did not live to see the
fruits of his efforts. He never saw Lewis Hall, but those
of you who have toured the building have seen the
Ross Malone Room, which is but a small tribute to the
esteem in which he was held. We are very pleased that
his widow, Ami, is with us here today.

Obviously, we are quite proud of this law school
building and are very pleased that our law school is
located in an area that does such justice to its innate
quality.

Over the years, the graduates of this law school
have distinguished themselves in many fields: in the
practice of law, in business, in the Judiciary, and in
public life. And we are fortunate to have here with us
today one of the most distinguished of our law school
alumni, and it is particularly appropriate that he
appear on this program, for not only is he a justice of
the Supreme Court of the United States, he is also a
Trustee of this University. And it is my great pleasure
and privilege to introduce to you Mr. Justice Lewis F.
Powell, Jr.

 

The faculty library on the upper level of Lewis Hall provides ample work space
as well as individual faculty carrels.

 

REMARKS
The Honorable Lewis F. Powell, Jr.
Associate Justice, The Supreme Court of the United States

Mr. Rector, President Huntley, Mr. and Mrs. Lewis,
ladies and gentlemen.

At the outset I join our Rector in paying special tri-
bute to Frances and Sydney Lewis. With the exception
of the $50,000 given by George Washington, no single
gift has meant as much to this University as the
magnificent structure to be dedicated today.

The roots of this law school go back to 1866, more
than a century ago. In that year a law department was
annexed to Washington College. Judge Brockenbrough,
its only professor, submitted his first report to
President Robert E. Lee in 1867. Of 27 enrolled for the
one-year course, 21 survived the ordeal of a three-day
oral examination. Each of them received the B.L.
degree.

This is not the occasion, in view of the heat and of
what lies ahead of us over there under those tents, for
even the briefest history of this law school. Yet the life
and measure of an educational institution depend on
the stature of its leaders and the scholarship of its
faculty. I will, therefore, mention the names of the
deans who provided the leadership for more than a
century for the life of this school, names that are
honored by generations of students: John Randolph
Tucker, Charles A. Graves, Harry St. George Tucker,
Williams Reynolds Vance, Joseph R. Long, Martin P.
Burks, William Hayward Moreland, Clayton E.
Williams, Charles P. Light, and Robert E. R. Huntley,
and our present fine dean, Roy L. Steinheimer, Jr.

In any litany of great names associated with the law
school there was one professor known to every Virginia
lawyer, John B. Minor.

It also is customary at dedicatory ceremonies to talk
about the product of the law school. Have its graduates

 

EA ae EA a a re,

become leaders of the bar? Have they obtained offices
of public trust and served the public well? No one
familiar with the history of this law school is in any
doubt as to the answers to these questions. Few law
schools of anything like comparable size have produced
as many leaders in the law.

Rather than attempt a lengthy catalogue of alumni
who have added to the fame of W&L, I cite only the
example of the current Virginia judiciary. Of the seven
justices of the Virginia Supreme Court, two are our
graduates, Alex M. Harman and A. Christian
Compton. Of the seven authorized active judges of the
United States Court of Appeals for the states of the 4th
Circuit, H. Emory Widener is an alumnus. And of the
eight active United States District Judges in Virginia,
John A. MacKenzie and James C. Turk also are
graduates, and Judge Walter Hoffman, who is here
today, is a senior judge and a former chief judge of the
Eastern District of Virginia.

Constraints of time prevent my mentioning
Washington and Lee alumni who sit on other courts in
this state and in other states. I do digress to say that the
name of John Randolph Tucker has been mentioned
by our distinguished Tucker lecturer. He was the
second dean of this law school. His great grandson and
namesake John Randolph Tucker III now sits on the
Circuit Court of the City of Richmond. And I think
Bunny Tucker is with us today.

Although I hesitate to mention additional names
when the list seemingly is endless, I suppose a program
of this kind would not possibly be complete without
reference to John W. Davis and Newton D. Baker, both
of whom were widely supported for the presidency of
the United States. Mr. Davis as you know, of course,
was the Democratic Party nominee in 1924.

And as a personal privilege, because we were in
school together and dear friends for many, many years
I mention Ross L. Malone as one of those who held

 

Guests were given a packet of items pertaining to the dedication ceremony,
including a 32-page, profusely illustrated booklet describing the building and
the School of Law.

 

highest the honor of this school. He was the leading
trial lawyer in the southwestern states of our country.
He served as deputy attorney general of the United
States, as president of the American Bar Association,
and, as our Rector has said, as general counsel and vice
president of General Motors and Rector of this
University.

Perhaps I have said enough to suggest, I hope not
too immodestly, that, like Webster’s Dartmouth,
though we are a small school, there are many who owe
it much as well as those who love it.

John W. Davis delivered the class oration here in
1895. He voiced the truism that we are heirs to all who
have gone before us. Those who are privileged at
present and in the years to come to teach and to study
law in Lewis Hall are indeed heirs to the greatest tradi-
tion with which I am familiar in this area.

It is well that this is true. We have witnessed in
recent years an unprecedented interest in the study of
law. Some 30,000 young people will be graduated from
our law schools this spring. It may be that the number
of lawyers again will exceed the demand for legal
services. In that event, the flood tide of applicants to
law schools will surely recede. Only schools of the
highest quality will continue then to attract students of
the highest competency. We can be confident that
Washington and Lee with its superb faculty, with this
superb facility made available by Frances and Sydney
Lewis, will be such a school.

Thank you very much.

 

Lewis Hall provides a study carrel for each student.

 

President Huntley:

And now I am going to run a risk of making
Frances and Sydney Lewis a bit irate with me by telling
you the truth about them. That they are intellectually
profound and talented, that their business acumen is
sharp, and that their business ethics are above reproach
are not things that are new to you. Nor indeed, I
suspect, are the other characteristics that I will men-
tion. But the way in which they combine these
characteristics is, in my judgment, to use an
overworked term in this case accurately applied,
unique. Their warmth and generosity and
unselfishness have been referred to, but could not be
overemphasized.

Indeed, it has occurred to me that they have so little
in them of the meanness that afflicts mankind that they
do not even recognize it in others. I used to think that,
and then it occurred to me that that wasn’t really the
case. It isn’t that they don’t recognize it in others; they
simply refuse to acknowledge it. Their expectations of
others are to encounter the same openness of spirit and
generosity which they would not admit, but which I can
assure you they have, and which they combine with the
other characteristics I have mentioned.

Perhaps the warmest tribute that could be paid to
them ts this: I believe that there is no one who knows
the Lewises who do not love them, and we are certainly
among them.

I am going to ask them to stand and let us thank
them at this time. [Prolonged applause]

Now that I have run that risk, I will tell you that
Sydney and Frances have agreed to make some
comments to us, and I will ask Sydney to do that first.

 

James W. Whitehead (center) talks to guests about the paintings of Louise
Herreshoff, which were displayed in Lewis Hall for their first Lexington
exhibition. Louise Herreshoff was the wife of Euchlin Reeves, ’27L. The
paintings came to Washington and Lee in 1967 along with the Reeveses’ gift
of Chinese Export Porcelain, selections from which were also on display in
Lewis Hall.

 

REMARKS
Sydney Lewis

Thank you, Mr. President.

Friends, the story of this law building begins back in
September, 1936, when a 16-year-old freshman, after a
few days at freshman camp, began attending daily
orientation meetings in Lee Chapel. These meetings
were to convey to the freshman class the ideals, goals,
and traditions of this University and to start us off on
an educational experience which was to leave its
imprint in an incredible way on each one of us.

The then-President of the University, Dr. Francis
Pendleton Gaines, spoke to us daily. Among the many
things that impressed me and have lived with me down
through the years was his constant reminder to us that
none of us was fully paying for his education, that the
financial contributions of benefactors such as George
Washington, Cyrus McCormick, Andrew Carnegie, and
others made our education possible, and he hoped that
each of us would always remember this when the day
arrived that we were fortunate enough to have means
of our own to share.

The story continues on to 1970, when a very
remarkable thing happened to my wife Frances and
me. We found ourselves in the fortunate and incredible
position of having the ability of helping make Washing-
ton and Lee superior for future generations of
students. At that time we called Washington and Lee
together with several other institutions in which we had
an interest, advising them that we would like to
consider giving some financial support and requesting
that proposals be submitted to us outlining some of the
pressing needs which would require considerable re-
sources.

 

ESE ESSERE SE SEG SEEN SSE AEST IIR INSTR 5 ETS a RR SE A Oa rrr

The next thing we knew Dr. John Newton Thomas,
the then-Rector of the Board of Trustees, knocked at
our door. And over lunch we talked about how exciting
it would be for us to choose among various projects in
the half-million dollar range.

President Huntley visited us in Richmond to discuss
in some detail a variety of needs which had already
been designated in the University’s development
program for the decade of the ’70s, which was about to
be undertaken. Then came a weekend in Lexington,
hosted by President and Mrs. Huntley, so we could
actually see the campus and areas in need of aid,
ending with what we thought was a mere casual walk
around the completed model of the proposed new, but
as yet unfunded, law school.

On the way home Frances and I both experienced
an exhilarating thought—that we could give the entire
law school building if we wanted. And we both knew
right then that we both did want it. Of course to realize
that it was possible to give the entire law school
building was mind-boggling. But the future doesn’t
really belong to buildings alone, and to give a building
is not really completely satisfying.

Another call to President Huntley, and this time a
meeting with him and Roy Steinheimer, the Dean of
the School of Law—and the instant recognition of all of
us that we were looking to invest in just the kind of
favorite project that they had temporarily put on the
back burner—a law research center. This then was the
missing part, now found, for a complete package for
human development.

Most creative plans that are actually translated into
action are the results of the fortuitous coming together
of some very diverse and superior elements. In this
case, there was first the school, Washington and Lee,
small enough and good enough to be able to take

 

action and leave its fine imprint on society, and small
enough and good enough to allow students and pro-
fessors to mix in a way that would allow big ideas to sift
up and down. Then there was Bob Huntley and Roy
Steinheimer, two practical, hard-headed visionaries,
who never accept anything but the best, and who know
that they must go out and get it. And there was the
outstanding Board of Trustees under the dynamic
leadership of Dr. John Newton Thomas, a board of
unusual courage and commitment, a board that was
about to announce to its constituency a development
program which required the University to raise the
unbelievable sum of $56 million during the next
decade if Washington and Lee was to attain its highest
goals and aspirations. President Huntley, as I am sure
most of you know, recently announced the successful
completion of Phase I of this development program in
which the University has received gifts in excess of $37
million. Then finally there was the element of financial
resources which Frances and I fortunately had in our
keeping. These facts, then, made this building and law
center the very best possible investment in the future.

It has always been obvious to my friends that the
most meaningful influences in my life have been my
wife Frances and this University. Anyone not an
alumnus of Washington and Lee cannot really
understand the very deep and special attachment to the
University held by its alumni. My wife Frances comes
closer to understanding that warmth of feeling than
anyone I know. And that is the main reason we were
able to respond as we did. To be able to contribute in a
meaningful way to Washington and Lee is a wonderful
and exciting experience. This is truly a great day for
Frances and Sydney Lewis. We hope it will turn out to
be an equally meaningful day in the history of this Uni-
versity.

One of the five major classrooms in
Lewis Hall.

9

President Huntley:

A year or so ago our very able assistant, Frank Par-
sons, made a comment about the Lewises that just
occurred to me: “They drive an easy bargain.”

Now it is my pleasure to introduce to you the Dean
of the School of Law at Washington and Lee, Dean Roy
L. Steinheimer.

 

REMARKS
Frances Lewis

Thank you.

I think I just heard a speech about a very old-
fashioned concept called loyalty. So, Washington and
Lee, no matter what the last speaker said, you and I are
in it together. We are both benefactors of the last
speaker’s loyalty. It feels good.

Sydney and I will receive pleasure, are receiving
pleasure, every day of our lives thinking about the
ideas for human survival, for human beings living
together, that could lie within the grasp of the law
center people—for many generations beyond ours, and
that was our plan. It is to the research informed by the
minds and sensibilities of the men and women to come
that must be left the continuous development of basic
legal principles—if in fact one still believes that the law
is living and breathing and not just thrashing about
and about to die. This beautiful building cannot make
the law responsive to changing needs so that people
may continue to live together. That creative work re-
quires inspiration, and each of us defines that as she
chooses. But certainly inspiration as expressed through
human conception and in the end, necessarily, human
action, made this elegant container of the law school
and of the future law school center help the people
who will work here to approach elegant solutions to
contemporary legal problems. We will even applaud
solutions that are not very elegant. Sydney and I can’t
live long enough to know what may happen here, but

we are enjoying our expectations now, and that is the ,
fun of it. Thank you The Board of Trustees met nearly all day on the eve of the dedication in one
" of the seminar rooms of Lewis Hall.

 

Frances and Sydney Lewis on the podium.

 

10

 

Dean Steinheimer, at trustees meeting.

RESPONSE
Roy L. Steinheimer
Dean of the School of Law

Mr. President, Mr. Justice Powell, Frances and Syd-
ney Lewis, alumni and friends of our University.

Pursuit of excellence in education has become a
tradition at Washington and Lee and has existed for
more than two centuries. Our presence here today to
dedicate Lewis Hall symbolizes the perpetuation of that
tradition. The majestic gift of Frances and Sydney
Lewis, together with the generous bequest of Wilbur
Hall, has fortified the aspirations of our law school
community to achieve excellence in our educational
processes.

Wilbur Hall was a devoted friend, alumnus and
supporter of our law school’s activities over a consider-
able period during his lifetime. As an eminent lawyer
he understood the vital importance of library resources
to the educational processes of a law school. He wanted
to assure this law school that it had such resources. His

 

Trustees had lunch in the faculty lounge.

bequest accomplishes this objective by making it
possible for us to acquire over the years one of the
finest law library collections in this country. And the
service of this fine library collection will provide to
scholars, students, and practicing lawyers an enduring
memorial to Wilbur Hall.

The gift of Frances and Sydney Lewis to our law
school is without parallel, and it reflects, as you can see
from their comments, their deep interest in people and
in the social and economic forces which affect our lives.
They are acutely aware of the forceful impact of our
legal structure and its processes on our society. They
see in the process of the education of law students that
this is a pivotal point where their perceptions as to the
functions of the law as a tool for structuring a better
society can be communicated to the end that the
graduates of our law school can be not only fine pro-
fessionals but will be effective leaders in our com-
munity. This interest of Frances and Sydney Lewis
coupled with a respect for our University and its
aspirations, as you can see, has motivated their gift
which is now embodied in Lewis Hall.

This structure is unsurpassed as a home for a com-
munity of students, teachers, and scholars with a
common interest in the law. It provides an inspiring
environment for the exploration and contemplation of
legal problems for the teaching of law and for the
absorption of legal concepts by students of the law. It
also provides elegant housing for the library collection
which was contemplated by Wilbur Hall.

But this is not all that Frances and Sydney Lewis
have done for us. Lewis Hall contains space for
housing law center research activities which will
explore the interaction of law with our ever-changing
social and economic needs in society. And typical of
their perceptiveness, they recognize that housing for

    
  

Reading room of the Wilbur C. Hall Law Library, which opens onto a terrace
at right. The library is named for a 1915 law graduate, a generous bene-
factor of the School of Law.

 

11

 

such a center was not alone enough. They realized that
we would need financial resources to undertake these
important research activities. So in addition to Lewis
Hall they have given us a $2-million endowment to
support these law center research activities. This en-
dowment will add a new and exciting dimension to the
more traditional facet of the processes of our legal
education.

Our gratitude to Frances and Sydney Lewis for
their overwhelming generosity is deeply felt. But I find
that gratitude is an emotion that is not easily articu-
lated. It is even more difficult to articulate when one
understands the spirit with which this gift was given.
Frances and Sydney Lewis are not donors who attach
strings, impose conditions, establish rules, and exact
promises. Their gift has been a naked act of faith, faith
in the history and traditions of our law school and,
more important, faith in its future.

While our gratitude to Frances and Sydney Lewis
cannot adequately be expressed in words, it can and
will be demonstrated by our action. In years ahead our
pursuit of excellence in legal education must and will
be infused with new vigor. The resources that they
have so generously provided to us will be used to move
our law school into the vanguard of legal education in
the years to come and thus vindicate the faith they have
shown in us.

 

Herbert Wechsler, Harlan Fiske Stone Professor of Constitutional Law at
Columbia University, delivered the 29th John Randolph Tucker Lecture.
His lecture will be published in the Washington and Lee Law Review.

a

RESPONSE
President Huntley

This day belongs to the Lewises, and it also belongs
to you and me and to Washington and Lee. And I am
not going to extend this ceremony much longer.

I do want to make just one comment. One of the
great American jurists said something of the law, you
may recall. He said, “The law never is, it is always about
to be.” Never is, it is always about to be. So it is with
Washington and Lee. In fact, our mottos remind us of
that: “Not unmindful of the future.” Think of the
connotation of that little simple statement. It reminds
you of the feats and the ideals of the past, and to face
forward. And the other motto in our crest: “Test or try
all things’”—suggesting to us that we be intellectually
skeptical without becoming skeptics, that we be idealists
without being ideologues, that we be trusting without
being fools, that we look ahead, but never forget the
past.

We rededicate Washington and Lee University and
its School of Law to that kind of aspiration.

 

Law Professor Charles V. Laughlin talks with Trustee John
W. Warner in one of the lounges of Lewis Hall. On the walls
are abstract and semi-abstract photographs made by Sally Mann
during the construction of Lewis Hall. The photographs were
inspired by the shapes and materials she saw at the site.

 

  

AAn eee e a
REN er
ae Se

 

Lh bh hbehbdord hp hhh U7, Tile

 
  

 

OL LAA ML ML AMA
NNEC
Vee eked Ae Pn? oe

A La
5

e

 

i.

 

Pas
Yt

GG

  
  
 

Fe pr reer
TULL t

MAD IAL.

74
CL hhaddhdnabditihe

SS

SIS

Kes.
a

POO LACE LL.
Vd

VTL

te

Ss

os

2 "¢,
TRE

RY YAY NR
POOR N NIA NA A}
RANE
pert)

ie:

SVAN
SASS

4
ed

KA

 

 

Ul

ge \

y Gi ,yy Vy
Ue % ny
wal Y 4) Mn UL,
uN,

Sod

70° LAU

 

“4

 

STU
i ties
MON

5
Nt

AN
atl

cf

u

Gre

ROI ICIEET
ELLA

YY),
I
Wr

sae se
. } ir : x WE

Fr i
Wi

| — toa a ESS

> —— 4 — ‘@ v i

2 a Ses

LANA ee ay ANN | ER

> eae SZ Po .

Yale a ls FF : ea NN oe
[eS SSS LEE SSS Sy: ; ING oeet eK .
gee SSE > - ooo 22 M4 Zi ak oS . Fe

= a S ee as <a ee ay ; rae ; ——— Fe
SZ Fe Pp go Pom EO SOS BL ST =
SEE en a 5 SSS A Mi A f SS A
SEEEZZ FFG EO SS SZ ; een
LLL LO EDDIE OD :
ZO ES i

oe
woe Za ao
LEIA SS oe PSs Ss SSS
LEELA gE OIL CESS aS ZS Sasa
DEL DL PDE EEE SS A

  
 
 

\
NY
i

NM

  
 
    
  

\
\

 

NN
i

N

 
  

DLL LAL ga <Z2 teal >
BPEEAEEA EIDE ,
GEL OL DG DEE g oP
GSPLEZD ZLB
SS DELOZE SS

CLL a —~

  
 

   
  
 
 

7 OPPS LLLLL__—_—<—
QAI PLLA PPO

 

 

Artist's conception (with liberties) of the original “Jockey John” party.

The Saga of ‘Jockey John’ and the Judge

Again It Was Some Party

Lewis Hall may seem to be the last word in legal
education—and it is. But Washington and Lee was not
about to forget its past, even on so auspicious an
occasion as its dedication.

Back in 1824, W&L (then called Washington
College) dedicated another magnificent structure,
Washington Hall, which today stands as the central
building on the Colonnade, a National Historic Land-
mark.

Trustees of the struggling little college had bud-
geted $3,000 for the project, a reasonable sum in those
long-ago days. But the building ended up costing a
staggering $9,000. Washington College, however, had
an angel: John Robinson, a near-illiterate Irish
immigrant who had made a name for himself trading
aes . es. as horses. His nickname throughout his life, in fact, was
Judge Alex Harman begins toasts to the Lewises. “Jockey John.” Eventually, Robinson branched out into
13

 

 

President Huntley joins the ceremony.

Souvenir tin cups filled and waiting.

Washington and Lee University
May 7, 1977

In the Tradition of Jockey John Robinson

 

 

 

Each cup bore this label.
14

 

   
  

 

Judge Harman serves the President.

trading slaves and making excellent whiskey at Hart’s
Bottom, his estate, which is now the city of Buena
Vista.

Robinson revered George Washington, and
consequently he was deeply interested in the college
Washington had endowed. He contributed most of the
money needed for Washington Hall. (In all, Jockey
John’s contributions during his life and by way of his
estate, which he left entirely to the college, totaled
more than $67,000—making him the most generous
benefactor in the first century-and-a-quarter of the in-
stitution’s existence.)

Came the day of the cornerstone-laying, and Jockey
John resolved to send over from Hart’s Bottom a 40-
gallon barrel of his very best 15-year-old whiskey for
the ceremony—“fruited and ropy . . . the finest ever
seen in Rockbridge,” according to a chronicle of the
era. “He expected that gentlemen whose notice he de-
sired to win would be present in great numbers” and
“would praise it as genuine nectar as they partook.”

The college authorities were clearly apprehensive
(and with good reason, as it turned out). Robinson,
however, was too good a friend of the college’s not to
be obliged. So the barrel was set up on the Front
Campus, and the ceremony began.

But people in town had heard about what was
happening over at the college, and hastened to the
campus to watch.

“For a time,” the 19th-century account reported,
“some courtesy in the order of approach was observed.

“But the thirsty multitude soon broke through all
restraint, and armed with tin cups, pitchers, basins,
buckets, and a variety of dippers—some of them more
handy than nice—rushed for the barrel, and soon gave
a glorious exhibition of what free whiskey can do for
the noble creature made in the image of God.”

(“It must have been some party,” Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw wrote 145 years later in General Lee’s College.)

Things quickly got so out of hand, in fact, that dis-
tressed college officials finally had to axe the keg to
pieces, bringing the out-of-control party to a dramatic
halt.

Afterwards, Jockey John expressed deep
humiliation. “He had not supposed the rabble, but only
such as were invited to drink, would march up to the

 

The President raises a toast.

fountain opened by him.” He was aghast that “the un-
limited hoi polloi” had contrived to “pervert what was
intended by him for the taste and enjoyment of gentle-
men into a horrid riot of the rabble.”

At Washington and Lee, precedents like Jockey
John’s party sometimes have a way of transforming
themselves into traditions.

And so it was that an eminent W&L graduate, Alex
M. Harman (law, 1944; honorary LL.D., 1973), justice
of Virginia’s Supreme Court of Appeals, decided to
provide the “nectar” to commemorate the dedication of
Lewis Hall.

He had promised President Huntley almost 10
years ago—when a new law building “seemed an
impossible dream”—that ifthe University could put up
the building, he’d put on a celebration in the tradition
of Jockey John.

Justice Harman has contacts of a very special sort in
Scotland, which is the Hart’s Bottom of these days, and
he arranged to have 45 gallons of superb scotch malt
sent over just for the occasion. He even had the original
keg shipped, and provided a generous supply of
genuine tin cups too. More than 1,300 of them were
given out, with a splash of “nectar” neat for those who
chose to participate in the tradition fully; empty for
those who subscribe to other vices, or to none at all.
There was only one single detail, in fact, which
everyone was determined not to duplicate this time—
the 1824 ceremony’s abrupt and undignified
conclusion. Justice Harman speculated that President
Huntley “is enough of a traditionalist” that he probably
arranged to have an axe hidden close by, just in case,
but the occasion was so decorous that nobody ever
found out whether he really did.

The consensus was that it was just about the best
scotch anybody there had ever tasted. Conoisseurs of
fine spirits, and there were many, were delighted.
Everyone praised it as “genuine nectar as they
partook,” just the way Jockey John had hoped they
would the first time around.

There were enthusiastic toasts to Frances and
Sydney Lewis and to Justice Harman. They toasted
Jockey John Robinson too—whose gratification, from
wherever he was watching, must surely have been com-
plete at last.

 

The first ceremonial sips.

 

 

 

Whether one envisioned it as an op-
portunity to express a heartfelt “thank-
you” to the Lewises or as a reason for a
splendid party, everyone in the Univer-
sity community worked—and worked
hard—to make the Lewis Hall
dedication a dramatically memorable
occasion.

Some integral ingredients of the
dedication dated from years ago—such
as the offer of Justice Alex M. Harman,
’44L, of a keg of scotch to toast the new

law school and University Photographer

Sally Mann’s evocative construction
photographs taken since 1973 and dis-
played in Lewis Hall during the dedica-
tion weekend. But as the occasion
neared, the intricate tasks of preparing
for thousands of guests began to take
shape for the entire University staff.
Gerald J. Darrell, manager of Evans
Dining Hall, began months ago to make

plans for W&L’s “biggest weekend ever.”

In addition to the gargantuan luncheon
for 1,500 guests—held far away from
the dining hall on the front lawn of

Lewis Hall—Darrell had to prepare (and

find space in his walk-in cooler) for an

alumni reunion buffet on Friday night

and the Board of Trustees banquet on

Saturday evening—and all of it worked
in around regular meals for 300 to 400
students, three times each day.

He solved his storage and transpor-
tation problem by renting a large
refrigerated truck and loading it with
the luncheon victuals his crew worked
practically around-the-clock to prepare.

  

oe

The on-and-off food truck.

But as he was leaving for home Friday
night, he happened to check the
temperature in the truck—and
discovered it was a balmy 60 degrees,
rather than the cool mid-30s it should
have been. He called the University’s
maintenance shop, and within minutes
Henry Black, an electrician, Roy Smith,
a refrigeration expert, and James
Brown, associate superintendent of
buildings and grounds, had arrived.
They soon discovered the problem—a
lack of Freon in the cooling system—
and found some in the chemistry lab to
replace it. In the meantime, every tasty

16

The feeding
of the 1,500
and other
miracles

 

Chef Charles Dunn and Dining Hall Manager
Gerald Darrell on the scene of the feast.

tidbit had to be moved off the truck (360

Ibs. of freshly made fruit salad, 120
dozen hardboiled eggs, 155 lbs. of ham,
125 gallons of tea, and 4,500 freshly
cooked drumsticks) and squeezed so

tightly into the walk-in cooler that it was

impossible to walk in. The next
morning, before breakfast preparations
could begin (because, after all,
everything was blocked because of the
previous night’s emergency move), the
food had to be transferred onto the
once-again refrigerated truck.

The on-campus logistics for Justice
Harman’s scotch toast were handled by
the University’s publications and news
offices. (As Mr. Harman noted, getting
it to campus took much more than
that—the indispensable cooperation of
the American Distilling Co. of Peters-
burg and the Virginia ABC Board, for
instance.) With meticulous attention to
the details of the story of “Jockey John”
Robinson that had inspired Justice

Harman from the start, the whole Shen-

andoah Valley was scoured from top to
bottom for old-fashioned pitchers and
authentic tin cups—flea markets,
“antique” stores, junk shops. Like
Dorothy, though, W&L ultimately
learned that happiness could be found
in its own back yard: everything
necessary ended up coming from B. P.
Knight’s general store in Buena Vista.
Preparations continued practically

up to the dedication ceremony itself. On
Friday the northernmost Lewis Hall
parking lot was finally paved, providing
more than 40 much-needed parking
spaces for the ceremony the next day.
As the Trustees watched the comings
and goings of the heavy paving
equipment during their meeting in
Lewis Hall, presidential assistant Frank
Parsons wryly remarked, “One thing
nice about Washington and Lee is that
we never leave anything to the last
minute.” Additional landscaping and
mulching, traffic lines on the access
roads and parking lots, and careful
policing of the area were all completed
within moments of the dedication.
Even the undergraduates got into
the act. Mobilized by senior Terry
Atwood, more than a dozen of them
made themselves available as chauffeurs
and messengers for the visiting
dignitaries; they ran a limousine service
to the Roanoke and Shenandoah Valley
Airports; then drove guests to Lewis
Hall and back again, took suits to the
cleaners, fetched newspapers, and
provided umbrellas when a brief
downpour—just as the lunch and
libation drew to a close—threatened to
drench their guests. After their busy
weekend, the students unanimously
agreed that their efforts were well
rewarded by getting to know
Washington and Lee’s great and
generous. “It was fun,” said freshman
Danny Carucci, “especially eating
breakfast with Justice Powell while

 

“Umm, good,” was the word.

waiting for his flight back to Washing-
ton.” And Terry Atwood got a kick out
of grocery shopping with Sydney Lewis.
‘The months of preparation, last-
minute problems, and efforts to make
the dedication the greatest occasion ever
were apparent to Frances and Sydney
Lewis. In one of many letters they wrote
to campus friends following the
dedication, they expressed their special
appreciation to the people behind the
scenes who made the weekend such a
success and so much fun. Those people
have learned, perhaps from the Lewises
themselves, that there is a joy in giving.

Thank you,
Cousin John

 

Retiring Trustee John M. Stemmons (left) is elated to receive his very own pigeon, although sculptured,

from the hands of Trustee Isadore M. Scott.

John M. Stemmons, a member of the
Board of Trustees for 12 years and
chairman of the University’s
Achievement Council since its inception
five years ago, has retired.

Stemmons, a legendary Dallas
businessman and land developer, was
elected trustee emeritus by the Board at
its May meeting on the weekend of the
dedication of Lewis Hall. He had
formally concluded his board duties in
February—when the Achievement
Council reported it had surpassed its
$36 million Dec. 31, 1976, fund-raising
goal by more than $1.7 million.

Perhaps one of the most colorful
board members of all times, Stemmons
was fond of describing his and his
Achievement Council colleagues’ role in
raising funds for the University as
“pigeon hunting” and “trap running.”

And on the Lewis Hall weekend he
even received a one-of-a-kind objet d’art
to remind him forevermore of his
prowess at the sport: a sculpture of
(what else?) a pigeon—wearing a
mortarboard. It was the inspired
creation of Jonathan David Scott, the
sculptor son of fellow board member
and Mrs. Isadore M. Scott.

Bringing in funds for W&L takes
“blood, sweat, tears, some head-beating,
a hell of a lot of traveling, and a lot of
cajoling,” he once remarked. His goal
was to persuade people to recognize “a
debt to the school—we were all
subsidized when we went there, by
virtue of past endowments that started
with George way back yonder.

“No one goes to Washington and Lee

without coming away with a broadened
concept and vision of life,” he said. “I
feel it has been most constructive in the
development of the kind of character I
am.”

Stemmons’ geniality and devotion to
Washington and Lee—which he
attended for three years as a member of
the Class of 1931, but from which he
never graduated because of the De-
pression—are matched only by his
business genius. He and his late brother
Storey, a 1927 law graduate, developed
Dallas’ Trinity River Industrial District
to the point that today it is among the
most impressive complexes of its type in
the country. Crossing through it is the
Stemmons Freeway, named for their
father; it is part of the Interstate system
and is the principal route leading to the
Dallas-Fort Worth Airport. In the
district itself, where more than 1,000
firms are located, he has developed the
six-building, 4,800,000-square-foot
Dallas Market Center and the four
Stemmons Towers office buildings
(where he presides over the affairs of
Industrial Properties Corp.), among
other facilities.

His wife—one of the few people
whom he addresses other than as
“Cousin” (he calls her “Mama”
instead)—is Ruth Thomas Stemmons,
the sister of Dr. John Newton Thomas,
rector emeritus of the board and a
fellow trustee of Cousin John’s until
1973.

17

pring Reunions, ’77

Anniversary Class Reunions were held on May 6-7 in coordina-
tion with the Lewis Hall dedication activities, in which the re-
turning alumni participated fully. They also joined in many
activities of their own: receptions, cocktail parties on the
terrace of the Alumni House, a buffet dinner, reunion
banquets, and the annual meeting of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association (see page 23). On May 6, the Alumni Board
of Directors held its semi-annual meeting throughout the day
and had lunch with student leaders. The Reunion Classes were
1927, 1937, 1952, 1962, 1967, and the Old Guard (all classes
before 1927). The pictures on these pages offer a sample of
how it went.

 

 

Talk on the Alumni House walk. Alumni House terrace was a popular spot at cocktail time.

 

Members of the Class of ’27 (seated) James L. Jennings, W. Matt Jennings, R. Wilbur Simmons, George John M. McCardell Sr., ’37.
E.. Burks, Gossett W. McRae, John B. Perry Jr., J. Y. McCandless, J. Preston Moore, A. H. Crowell;

(standing) G. Carlton Walters, Charles T. Smith, Garland T. Davis, Burchard S. Pruett, Pendleton S.

Tompkins, Harold O. Smith, Alfred F. Taylor, Robert H. Jones, Reginald V. Milbank.

18

 

 

 

 

Alumni Director Robert M. White talks with student leader
David Davis.

 

 

 

Marty Bass, ’70, assistant alumni secretary, at Retiring President Tom Branch, ’58, presides at Alumni Board meeting.
meeting of Alumni Board.

 

S85 SF

 

Richard L. Harden, ’67. Members of the Old Guard (seated) Samuel L. Sanderson, ’22; Joshua C. Womeldorf, ’23; Charles A.
Tutwiler, 24; Rupert A. Latture, ’15; L. Battle Bagley, ’16; Harry Pfeffer, 26; Emmett W. Poindex-
ter, ‘20; (standing) Weldon T. Kilmon, ’23; R. Winter Royston, ’23; William M. Miller, ’12; E. B.
(Ted) Shultz, ’16; Robert M. Bear, ’22; William O. Burtner, ’17; Harold O. Smith, ’27; Robert H.
Jones, ’27.

19

 

el gazette

 

A. Robert Huntley

 

H. R. Huntley named
freshman-year coordinator

H. Robert Huntley, a teacher of Eng-
lish at W&L for 15 years, has been
named coordinator of the freshman
year, associate admissions director, and
associate dean of students.

In his new post, Huntley will have
responsibility for orientation and coun-
seling of W&L freshmen, supervision of
the dormitory counselor program, and
other related duties. He will also have
substantial responsibility for recruiting
prospective students and will be a
primary participant in the admissions
decision process.

He will continue to teach one course
in English each term.

Huntley, 48, ia a B.A. graduate of
Wisconsin State University and received
the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Wisconsin. His principal
fields of teaching are the British novel
and Russian literature in translation. He
is the author of The Alien Protagonist of
Ford Madox Ford, published in 1970 by
the University of North Carolina Press,
and of several scholarly articles and re-
views.

He has long been involved in W&L’s
admissions and student-services

20

operations, and had become increasingly
active in student recruitment and
counseling in recent years in addition to
his full-time teaching duties.

Huntley succeeds William A. Noell
Jr., who has held those positions at W&L
since 1972. Noell, 34, joins the
administration of the University of
Virginia School of Law July 1 as director
of the legal writing program and
director of financial aid in the law
school. He will have the rank of assistant
professor on the General Faculty at
U.Va.

In addition to his admissions and
freshman-year duties at W&L, Noell has
taught tax accounting at W&L for seven
years. He is a 1964 B.S. graduate of
Washington and Lee and a law graduate
of Virginia.

 

W&L man wins
Truman Scholarship

A Washington and Lee University
sophomore, M. Graham Coleman II, has
been named one of the first 53 Truman
Scholars in the nation.

Under the program, established by
Congress as a memorial to the late
president, one Truman scholar was
named this year from each state, the
District of Columbia, and the Terri-
tories. More than 1,250 colleges and uni-
versities were invited to nominate
potential candidates. The field was
initially narrowed down to 700, then,
following individual interviews by 13
regional selection committees, the 53
recipients were selected.

Coleman won the Truman Scholar-
ship from Louisiana. He is from New
Orleans, and majors in European his-
tory and English at Washington and
Lee.

His selection was announced by John
W. Snyder, chairman of the Harry S.
Truman Scholarship Foundation and
former Secretary of the Treasury under
‘Truman.

The scholarships were formally
conferred on the 27 men and 26 women
recipients in May by Mrs. Margaret
Truman Daniel, President Truman’s
daughter, at a ceremony at the Truman
Library in Independence, Mo.

The scholarships provide an annual
maximum award of $5,000 for up to
four years of college and graduate-level
courses leading to a career in public
service.

Coleman is managing editor of The
Ring-tum Phi and is active in the Univer-
sity Theatre and on the Student
Recruitment Committee. He is also the

 

M. Graham Coleman II

newly elected president of his social
fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi.

 

Student elections,
appointments

James M. Underhill of Babylon,
N.Y., has been elected president of the
Student Executive Committee, for the
coming year.

George Griffin of Rockville, Md., was
elected student body vice president. Neil
Pentifallo of Cresskill, N.J., was elected
secretary.

In other student elections, J. Michael
Gallagher, a rising junior from Augusta,
Ga., was elected editor of The Ring-tum
Phi by the University Publications Board
and W. Temple Webber III of Houston,
a rising senior, was elected editor of The
Calyx. The Interfraternity Council
elected Stephen E. Mattesky of Carlisle,
Pa., a rising senior who is a member of
Pi Kappa Phi, as its president for next
year.

WLUR-FM, the University radio
station, will be directed next year by
Charles Smith of Oklahoma City, newly
appointed station manager.

Lester J. Gillen of Glen Cove, N.Y.,
was elected music director of WLUR,
and Edward Burgess of Cortland, N.Y.,
was elected news director.

 

Journalism graduate named
to new W&L publications post

Douglass W. Dewing, who received
his B.A. degree in journalism in May,
has been named assistant director of
publications at W&L.

He inaugurates a program under
which a new graduate each year will be

Ce ee nee nen i

—__——._ ¢

 

 

He

Douglass W. Dewing

appointed to work in the University’s
publications program for one year. The
program is modeled after one in W&L’s
admissions office which has been in
successful operation for eight years.

Dewing, who is from Portsmouth,
worked for two years in the W&L news
office as a student writer, with respon-
sibility for most routine newswriting
activities and for preparing occasional
articles for the alumni magazine. As
assistant to Rom Weatherman, director
of publications, Dewing will continue
also to work closely with the news
operation.

The newly created position is the
result of a rearrangement of
assignments in the W&L administration
rather than a staff expansion.

Dewing is a member of The Society

AS

Biology Prof. John S.
department.

of Professional Journalists/Sigma Delta
Chi and has worked extensively on The
Ring-tum Phi and WLUR-FM, the

campus radio station.

 

W&L well represented
at Virginia science assembly

Sixteen members of the Washington
and Lee faculty and student body
presented papers at the 55th annual
meeting of the Virginia Academy of
Science at Virginia State College in
Petersburg in May.

In addition, two W&L professors
judged portions of the 36th annual
meeting of the Virginia Junior Academy
of Science at the same time.

The faculty members participating
were James K. Shillington, George Whit-
ney, and John H. Wise, professors of
chemistry; Leonard E. Jarrard,
professor of psychology; and Gary H.
Dobbs, assistant professor of biology.

Students who delivered papers are
Shelby Bailey, Michael Burns, Stuart
Craig Jr., John Dean III, Edward
Gerhardt, Michael Knapp, William
Schooley, James Sheridan Jr., Earl W.
Stradtman Jr., Keith Teel and Brian
‘Tray.

 

Orchid collection donated
to biology department

More than 75 orchids from places
such as southeast Asia, Mexico, Peru
and Florida have been donated to the
University’s biology department by Mr.

Knox and William O. Hay (right) with orchids that Hay donated to the biology

 

and Mrs. William O. Hay of Lexington.

In addition to the orchids, Mr. and
Mrs. Hay donated plant racks, extra pots
and a small library of books and
pamphlets about orchids.

It had taken the Hays a dozen years
to collect the orchids when they decided
to donate them to Washington and Lee.

 

W&L’s marathon man

The winner of this year’s first annual
15-mile Ring-tum Phi Road Race, held in
mid-May, was Frederic Schwab,
professor of geology, who also ran in the
older, more established Boston
Marathon earlier this spring. It was
Schwab’s first time in the Boston event,
and he was impressed by the size of the
crowd—more than a million people—
that lined all 26 miles and 385 yards of
the course. He placed in the top third
(between 940 and 950) in the field of
3,100 entries.

 

12 faculty promotions

Promotions in rank have been
announced for 12 faculty members,
effective Sept. 1.

Named full professor of law was
Roger D. Groot, currently associate
professor. Groot, who has taught law at
W&L since 1973, is a B.A. graduate of
Vanderbilt University and received his
law degree from the University of North
Carolina. His fields of teaching are real-
estate transactions, property, and land-
use planning.

Promoted from assistant to associate
professor were Edwin D. Craun, David
B. Dickens, Harold C. Hill, Leonel L.
Kahn Jr., James M. Phemister, W. Lad
Sessions, and Thomas O. Vinson Jr.

Craun, who becomes assistant dean
of The College July 1, teaches English.
He is a graduate of Wheaton College
and received his Ph.D. from Princeton
in 1971, the year he joined the W&L
faculty.

Dickens is a member of the German
department, and has taught at W&L
since 1960. He is a B.A. graduate of the
University of Buffalo and an M.A.
graduate of George Washington
University.

Hill teaches German, Chinese, and
Russian, and is director of the Asian
Studies program. He joined the W&L
faculty in 1970, the year he received his
Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins. He also
holds the M.A. degree from Hopkins
and the B.A. from George Washington
University.

Kahn, director of the University

21

Theatre, has taught at W&L since 1965.
He holds both the bachelor’s and the
master of fine arts degree from Tulane
University.

Phemister, a member of the law
faculty since 1974, holds the B.S. degree
from Purdue and a law degree from
Northwestern. His fields of teaching
specialization are civil procedure,
federal jurisdiction and procedure, legal
methods, and medical jurisprudence.

Sessions has taught philosophy at
W&L since 1971, the year he received
his doctorate from Yale. He is also an
M.A. graduate of Columbia and holds
the B.A. degree from the University of
Colorado.

Vinson, who teaches mathematics,
joined the faculty in 1967. He is a B.A.
graduate of Emory University and
received his Ph.D. from Virginia
Polytechnic Institute & State University.

Promotions to assistant professor
from instructor were announced for J.
Tucker Cook Jr., Gary R. Franke,
George C. O’Connell, and Van H. Pate.

Cook is a graduate of Washington
and Lee and holds the M.A. degree
from Columbia University. He has
taught music at the University since
1968.

Franke is W&L’s wrestling coach and
assistant trainer. He is a B.S. graduate of
Mankato (Minn.) State College.

O’Connell is assistant lacrosse coach
and assistant football coach. He is a B.A.
graduate of Denison University and
earned his master’s degree from Towson
State College. He joined the W&L
athletic department in 1973. He is
president of the United States Lacrosse
Coaches’ Association this year.

Pate teaches French in addition to
administrative duties as director of
student financial aid at W&L. He isa
graduate of W&L and has undertaken
graduate study at Middlebury College.

 

Book fund established
in memory of Sprouse

A book fund in memory of Philip D.
Sprouse, ’28, distinguished career
diplomat, has been established at Mc-
Cormick Library. The fund is the gift of
R. P. London, ’27, of Johnson City,
Tenn. The fund will be used to
purchase books in the fields of French
literature, diplomacy, and diplomatic
history.

Librarian Maurice D. Leach Jr. said,
in expressing gratitude for the fund,
that such gifts add measurably to the li-
brary’s overall collection and make

pa

useful and suitable memorials.

Sprouse, who was U. S. Ambassador
to Cambodia from 1962 to 1964, died
April 28 in San Francisco. He had lived
in Orinda, Calif., since his retirement in
1964.

He served during the 1940s as U. S.
Consul General in Kunming, China, and
also on the staff of Gen. George C. Mar-

shall, who was President Truman’s
special representative to China. He was
later chief of the State Department’s
Division of Chinese Affairs in
Washington, and held posts in Paris and
Brussels before being sent to Cambodia.

He was a native of Green Brier,
Tenn. Washington and Lee awarded
him an honorary degree in 1963.

 

gifts since July 1, 1976 include:

enrolled in the Class of 1979.

"18, ’20L.

given by Lamar Polk, ’15.

Mrs. Benjamin P. Knight Jr.

"36.

D4.

mother, Mrs. John G. Boatwright.

Cleggett of Maidstone, England.

"34.

given by D. E. Brady Jr., ’37.

 

Recent gifts to the library

In recent months, McCormick Library has received many gifts of books and
funds from alumni and friends, which have added depth to the collection. Such

—A Robert E. Lee original document dated March 30, 1869, given by Mrs.
Alfred F. Taylor in honor of her husband’s 50th Class Reunion this May.

—The Autobiography of an Octogenarian written by R. E. Withers and pub-
lished in Roanoke in 1907 was given by Ambassador (Ret.) C. Dudley Withers, ’37,
while attending his 40th Class Reunion in May.

—The Philip Dodson Sprouse, ’28, Book Memorial Fund was begun by R. P.
London, ’27. These funds are to be used to acquire books on French literature,
diplomacy and diplomatic history, in honor of Ambassador Sprouse who served
with distitction in the U.S. Foreign Service.

—Captain Edward Cooke’s A Voyage to the South Sea and Round the World,
London, 1712,—a rare book—was given by Dr. David Leshner. His son Brian is

—The Oxford Annotated Aprocrypha was given by David Moore, Class of 1976.

—Two Richard Jennings Gaines’s Jetters written while enrolled in Washing-
ton College in 1819 were given by his descendant, Mrs. Francis Jackson Pease.

—Clues to America’s Past, a very useful study on American archaeology was
given by Mr. and Mrs. John F. Hendon, ’24.

—Zachariah Johnston family papers spanning Colonial political and social
life in the Valley through the nineteenth century were given by M. W. Paxton,

—A Robert E. Lee original letter dated January 26, 1866, given by Dr.
William Moss Jr. Dr. Moss’s graudson, Richard, is ci olled in the Class of 1980.
—The Confession of Faith Agreed Upon by the Assembly of Drvines at Westminster,
which was printed and sold in Philadelphia in 1745 by Benjamin Franklin, was

—Songs of the Open by Grandland Rice was given by Parker K. Smith Jr., ’53.
—A 1932 certificate of membership in The Biological Society was given by

—Books and journals on Southern history were given by W. Magruder Drake,

—Ovid’s Metamorphoses, a magnificent facsimile of Caxton’s manuscript trans-
lation was given by Eugene B. Powers.
—Drummondtown, A One Horse Town written and given by L. Floyd Nock III,

—Beautiful and useful art books are acquired regularly from the Boatwright
Fund which is given in memory of Robert McDearmon Boatwright, ’42, by his

—Books on European history, business administration, and American naval
history are acquired annually from the memorials given in honor of Robert Carl
Peniston, ’75, by his parents and friends.

—A subscription of books published by The Jewish Publication Society of
America which is given annually by Isadore M. Scott, ’37.

—A subscription to the Irish Historical Studies is given annually by David A. H.

—Contributions to The McCrum-Palmer Book Fund by Foster M. Palmer,

—Land surveys of areas in Rockbridge County covering four decades with the
history of the property from the time of original land grants made by D. E. Brady,

 

 

 

 

 

Three alumni receive awards;

Association names new officers

 

Dr. George B. Craddock

In the midst of a busy weekend that
included the spring meeting of the
Board of Trustees, the Lewis Hall
dedication activities, and Alumni Class
Reunions, the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association met on May 7 for its
annual meeting in one of the new law
school’s classrooms.

Outgoing President Thomas B.
Branch III, ’58, presided over the
meeting, which included reports from
the previous year’s officers, presentation
of the annual Distinguished Alumnus
Awards, and the election of three new
members to the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors.

Distinguished Alumnus Awards
recognize those who have selflessly
served Washington and Lee, their pro-
fession, and community. The recipients
this year were Emmett W. Poindexter,
‘20A, ’23L, a retired New York City
attorney; Frederick Bartenstein Jr.,
°39A, ’41L, former administrative vice
president of Merck & Co., Inc.; and Dr.
George B. Craddock, ’30, a Lynchburg
physician.

Branch presented the awards—silver
cups and certificates—and read the
citations to Poindexter and Bartenstein,
the two recipients present. Craddock
was out of the country and will receive
his award at a later ceremony.

Poindexter, a Phi Beta Kappa

 

 

Emmett W. Poindexter

graduate and a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, has practiced law for over
40 years in New York City. He is a
member of the American, New York
State, and New York City Bar Associa-
tions and has served as president of the
Phi Beta Kappa Alumni Association of
New York and as chairman of the
National Scholarship Committee of his
fraternity, Delta Upsilon. He is a
member of the New York City Lawyers’
Club, the National Defense Council of
his home community, Rutherford,
N.J., and the Board of Deacons of the
Rutherford Presbyterian Church, where
he has been an elder for 30 years.

His devotion to his alma mater has
earned him the nickname, “Mr. Wash-
ington and Lee,” among his friends. He
has held every office in the New York
Alumni Chapter and has served on the
Board of Directors.

Bartenstein is also a member of Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kappa.
He is a graduate of both the under-
graduate and law school, where he was
a member of the Order of the Coif and
helped to found the Washington and Lee
Law Review. From 1941 to 1971, he was
a “stellar member” of the legal staff of
Merck & Co., Inc., working as general
attorney, general counsel and finally ad-
ministrative vice president. He has been
continuously active in the bar association

 

Frederick Bartenstein Jr.

at the local, state, and national levels. He
retired in 1971 to concentrate on histori-
cal research and writing, and he and his
wife, the former Isabel Burnham An-
derson, have just published New Jersey’s
Revolutionary War Powder Mill. A former
class agent, he was a member of the
Board of Directors and served as its
president for two years.

Dr. George B. Craddock, described
by one of his colleagues as the “hardest-
working and most beloved doctor in
Lynchburg,” began his practice in 1940.
He graduated from Jefferson Medical
College in 1935, completed his intern-
ship and a year’s pathology fellowship at
Philadelphia General Hospital and
finished his two-year residency at the
Medical College of Virginia. Craddock
has taken an active part in many pro-
fessional organizations; he has served as
president of the Lynchburg Academy of
Medicine and the Virginia Board of
Examiners and is currently a fellow in
the American College of Physicians and
a diplomate of the American Board of
Internal Medicine.

His professional duties have not pre-
cluded a strong interest in Washington
and Lee; he is a Robert E. Lee Associate
and has served on the Board of Direc-
tors. His outstanding reputation and
many accomplishments as well as
frequent meetings with high school

23

i lt... ls... Lr”. lc... Cc lc. U8... Ci CCU.

Alumni Association Meeting

 

guidance counselors and students have
encouraged many young men to come to
Washington and Lee. In recognition for
his service to the University, the Lynch-
burg Alumni Chapter awarded him the
prestigious Lynchburg Citation. His two
sons are also Washington and Lee
alumni: George B. Jr., 64, a physician,
and Theodore Jack, ’68, a lawyer.
Branch announced the new Alumni
Board officers elected the previous day
during the Board of Directors meeting.
Edwin J. Foltz, 40, vice president of
corporate relations for the Campbell
Soup Co., succeeds Branch as president;
Robert M. White II, ’38, editor and pub-
lisher of the Mexico, Mo., Ledger, suc-
ceeds J. Thomas Touchton, ’60, as vice
president; and Jerry G. South, ’54, vice
president and secretary of the Bank of
America in San Francisco, succeeds
Charles C. Stieff II, ’45, as treasurer.
Three new board members were
nominated and unanimously elected to

 

Edwin J. Foltz

L

 

Richard A. Denny
24

 

Robert M. White

Fred Fox Benton Jr.

four-year terms: Fred Fox Benton Jr.,
60, executive vice president of the
Houston Oil and Minerals Corp.;
Richard A. Denny, ’52, a partner in the
Atlanta law firm of King & Spaulding;
and Paul E. Sanders, ’43, manager, Dis-
tribution Franchising, International
Sales Division, of the General Electric
Co. in New York. They replace the
three men who completed their terms:
Branch, Touchton, and Stieff.

Also elected to a two-year term as
one of two alumni representatives on
the University Committee on Intercol-
legiate Athletics was Sidmon J. Kaplan,
56, president of the Cleveland, Ohio,
Landseair, Inc., Travel Agency.

Law School Association
elects new officers

The Law School Association, meeting
on May 7 in Lewis Hall in connection
with the dedication ceremonies, elected

Jerry G. South

 

John Alford, ’59L, of Lynchburg as
president for 1977-78 and Walter L.
Hannah, ’50L, of Greensboro as vice
president.

Alford moved up from vice presi-
dent and succeeded Noel P. Copen,
’57L, of Huntington, W. Va. Hannah
has just completed a three-year term on
the Law School Council.

Elected to the Law School Council to
terms expiring in 1981 were Harry A.
Berry Jr., ’51L, of Charlotte, N.C.;
Robert G. Bigham, ’33L, of Gettysburg,
Pa.; William R. Cogar, ’55L, of
Richmond; and Raymond W. Haman,
’52L, of Seattle, Wash.

Retiring Council members besides
Hannah were Donald B. McFall, ’69L, of
Houston; Jeffrey R. Reider, ’70L, of
Washington, D. C.; and Benjamin A.
Williams III, ’71L, of Hampton, Va.

Mrs. Cherie L. Wright of the law
school staff remains as executive
secretary.

 

 

 

 

Chapter news

NEW YORK. Dr. James G. Leyburn,
dean emeritus of the College, was the
honored guest and speaker at a chapter
meeting on March 11. The outstanding
program followed cocktails and dinner
at the Princeton Club in Manhattan. A
large and enthusiastic group of alumni
and their wives were pleased to hear Dr.
Leyburn speak on the subject of “The
Beauty of Language.” The
arrangements were made by chapter
officers, J. A. Drabek, ’53, and Jim
Mathews, ’70. The chapter was also
honored to have present Trustee Cal-
vert Thomas, ’38, and Mrs. Thomas.

CHARLOTTE. The chapter held a
meeting for the first time in the new
Radisson Plaza Hotel on March 22. A
spirited group of alumni gathered for
cocktails and hors d’oeuvres and to see a
motion picture film of the 1976 W&L
Mock Democratic Convention. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn represented the
University and presented the film. The
arrangements were made by Joe Dozier
Jr., 70, chapter president. A special
guest was John L. Crist, ’45, University
trustee. Plans made for future activities
included student recruitment efforts
and a reception for new students who
plan to attend W&L next September.

PHILADELPHIA. Sandy Stradtman,
77, vice president of the W&L Student
Body, a native of Columbia, S.C., was
the principal speaker at the chapter’s
luncheon on March 23 at the Racquet
Club. Stradtman presented an up-to-
date report on campus activities. His
remarks were well-received. The chapter
made plans for a program in connection
with the W&L lacrosse game against
Rutgers on May 7.

MID-SOUTH. The Hunt and Polo
Club in Memphis was the setting for the
chapter’s cocktail party and dinner on
March 30. The well-attended affair was
in honor of President Robert Huntley,
who gave an up-to-date report on the
University. A special highlight of the

 

NEW YORK-~J. A. Drabek, ’53, chapter president,

Princeton Club in Manhattan.

introduces Dean Emeritus_James G. Leyburn at the

 

CHARLOTTE—Thomas J. Hardin, ’67; David T. Johnson Jr., ’68, former chapter president; W. Joseph

Dozier Jr., 70, chapter president.

meeting was the presentation of
Distinguished Alumnus Awards to two
Memphian alumni, S L Kopald, ’43, a
University trustee, and L. Palmer Brown
III, 30. The arrangements for the
gathering were made by the chapter
president, Joel W. Brown, ’65.

FLORIDA WEST COAST. A beautiful
spring day greeted members of the
W&L tennis team when they were guests
at a party on April 6 at the Tampa home
of J. Thomas Touchton, 60. Twenty-
four alumni, parents, and prospective

students were there to meet Coach
Dennis Bussard and his players. They
were in the area to play Eckerd College.
Touchton just completed a term as vice
president of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors and is a former president of the
Florida West Coast chapter.

PALMETTO. A cocktail and dinner
meeting was held on April 22 at the
Forest Lake Club in Columbia, S.C. The
members of the neighboring chapter,
South Carolina Piedmont, were invited,
and several alumni and their wives from

25

Chapter News

MID-SOUTH—University President Robert E. R. Huntley presents Distinguished Alumnus Awards to
S L Kopald Jr., ’43, (left) and L. Palmer Brown III, ’30, (right).

PALME TTO-—Rector E. Marshall Nor Jr, 33, 351. i. Patton Adams IV, 65; President: Huntley;
and Trustee John L. Crist Jr., ’45.

the chapter attended. Seldom in recent —_ remarks by President Robert E. R.

history has the guest list included so Huntley, Chapter President T. Patton
many distinguished members of the Adams IV, ’65, introduced E. Marshall
University’s administration and Board Nuckols Jr., 33, of Newtown, Pa., rector
of Trustees. Before the principal of the Board of Trustees, and John L.
26

    
     

Crist Jr., 45, of Charlotte, a trustee,
both of whom spoke briefly. Also,
present and introduced were Farris
Hotchkiss, 58, director of development,
and Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary. President Huntley spoke of
Washington and Lee’s unique position
in the educational world and of its
strong assets, among which is the
interest and devotion of alumni. Adams
complimented the chapter for its pro-
ductive efforts in student recruitment
and gave a warm welcome to four of the
eight incoming freshmen who were
present..A special feature was the
drawing for several door prizes.
Lawrence M. Croft, ’73, won first prize,
a set of eight Washington and Lee
glasses. The meeting concluded with a
spirited rendition of the Washington
and Lee Swing, led by Nuckols and
President Huntley.

RICHMOND. A large group of
alumni, meeting in the Executive Dining
Room atop the First and Merchants
Building on April 28, was pleased and
privileged to hear talks by Trustee
Sydney Lewis, ’40, and Dr. Sidney Coul-
ling, 46, professor of English. Lewis
spoke on the “Responsibilities of a Trus-
tee to Washington and Lee,” and Dr.
Coulling on the “Responsibilities of a
Faculty Member in a Changing Wash-
ington and Lee.” Both were excellent
talks and were eagerly received by all
the alumni. Jack DeJarnette, 65, chapter
president, presided at the dinner and
made the introductions. The chapter

was especially pleased to have present
Dr. John Newton Thomas, ’24, trustee
and rector emeritus, and Mrs. Thomas.
Among the guests from Lexington were
Farris Hotchkiss, 58, director of
development, and Mrs. Hotchkiss, and
Bill Washburn, alumni secretary. Special
thanks were extended to Rob Turnbull;
‘72, chapter secretary, who helped make
the arrangements. DeJarnette
announced plans for a summer social in
honor of incoming freshmen and
another full chapter meeting in October.

 

Class notes

 

 

 

 

 

Why not a W&L rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$68.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$58.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:

Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your
check. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

 

 

1929

WILLIAM W. (BILL) Grass III, a Presbyterian
minister in Clarkton, N.C., is president of the
local Rotary Club.

1930

The National Multiple Sclerosis Society has an-
nounced that L. PALMER Brown, president of L.
P. Brown Company, Inc. of Memphis, Tenn.,
has been elected to a one-year term as chair-
man of the board of directors. Brown, active for
many years in philanthropic and social welfare
work, was named to lead the voluntary health
agency after serving as its president since 1973.
He has been a director since 1953 and served as
vice president of its Southeast region from 1956
to 1973.

W. VAN GILBERT, a former attorney, is now en-
gaged in real estate development in Athens,
Ala. He serves as chairman of the board of First
Alabama Bank and as a director of First Ala-
bama Bancshares in Montgomery.

1931
BEVERLY J. LAMBERT JR. has been elected vice
chairman of the board of the First State Bank of
Crossett. He has also been elected chairman of
the State Board of Higher Education.Lambert
resides in Crossett, Ark.

The Michie Company has just published
ARTHUR PHELPS’ book Domestic Relations in Vir-
ginia. Phelps is a professor at William and Mary
College.

1934

JOHN J.Cuomo retired as proctor supervisor of
the security department of Princeton
University in September, 1975.

Dr. WILLIAM J. MORAN retired as director of the
Chemical Manufacturing Division of the Phar-
maceutical Division of Ciba-Geigy Corp. He is
now adjunct research professor in chemistry at
Drew University in Madison, N.J.

1936

GEORGE W. HarkRISON, class agent for the class
of 1936, has retired from a three-year tenure as
a member of the board of directors of the Hen-
derson-Vance, N.C., Chamber of Commerce.

1937

JAMES S. BRUCE, a company vice president and
director of corporate relations has been nomi-
nated for election to the Eastman Kodak board
of directors. Bruce joined the company in 1939

27

 

 

 

J. S. Bruce, ’37

as an engineer in the paper service division
Kodak Park and was appointed assistant super-
intendent of the division in 1952. He moved to
Kodak Office in 1956 as assistant director of
training and became director a year later. In
1962 he was appointed director of the business
and technical personnel department and three
years later became associate director of the
photographic technology division. Bruce was
named a director of the company in 1970. In
1976 he became director of the corporated re-
lations and was elected vice president. He is a
member of the American Institute of Chemical
Engineers, the Society of Motion Picture and
Television Engineers, the Society of Photo-
graphic Scientists and Engineers, and the
Rochester Engineering Society. He serves on
the board of directors of the Rochester area
Blue Cross, Rochester Jobs, Inc., Junior
Achievement, Inc., the Eastman Savings and
Loan Association, and the board of trustees of
the Rochester Museum and Science Center.

James H. RICE, a senior vice president of First
National Bank in Little Rock, Ark., has been
named trust division counselor at the bank. Rice
has been with First National since 1948 and has
been a vice president and trust officer since
1960. He is a member of the American and Ar-
kansas Bankers Association, the Pulaski and
Arkansas Bar _ Associations, the Central
Arkansas State Planning Council, and the First
United Methodist Church.

1938

GrorGE F. BAuER JR. of Middletown, Ohio, is
associated with Armco Steel and does consider-
able traveling abroad. He and his wife Adair
have a son Brian who is currently at Washing-
ton and Lee and two daughters Betsy and Bar-
bara who are graduates of Cornell and Miami
University respectively.

PauL L. HOLDEN JR. has been promoted to vice
president of sales for the Lincoln Electric Co. of
Cleveland, Ohio, one of the world’s largest
manufacturers of welding equipment.

194]

WILLIAM L. EvANS JR., whose home is in Fort
Worth, Texas, is a senior pilot with American
Airlines after 35 years of service. Recently trans-
ferred to New York, he flys 747s in the Carib-
bean. He commutes between New York and
Texas as he continues to practice law in Texas,
specializing in wills, estate planning and
probate work.

1942

RoBERT A. LawTON is president of C. A. Law-
ton & Son, Inc., a general insurance agency in
Central City, Ky.

28

CORRECTION

Victor R. LaVolpe, ’37, a New Jersey news-
paperman, won first place from the Burlington
Country Press Association in 1976 for spot
news, not sports news as reported in the March
issue. The editors regret the error.

DANIEL C. Lewis has served 10 years on the Vir-
ginia State Board for Community Colleges and
has been chairman of the board for the last five
years. He has completed 12 years on the West
Point, Va., School Board and served as chair-
man for 11 years.

1943

J. Paut BLakELy is head of the publications and
visual arts division of Oakridge National
Laboratory. He is in charge of composing,
make-up, printing lab reports, documents, and
assignments in photography, motion pictures,
and graphic arts. He is chairman of the local
chapter of Society of — Technical
Communications and associate editor of the
Society’s journal Technical Communication.

RICHARD J. BROMLEY is with the stock broker-
age firm of Loeb, Rhodes & Co. in the Garden
City, N.Y., office.

1945

CHARLES B. TEBBs has been elected a vice presi-
dent in the security and protection department
at Bankers Trust Co. in New York. Tebbs join-
ed the bank in 1971 and was named assistant
vice president in 1972. He is a member of the
District of Columbia Bar, United States Su-
preme Court Bar, Society of Former Special
Agents, and American Society for Industrial
Security.

1947

ROBERT E. BAKER became the managing editor
of the Fredericksburg, Va., Free Lance-Star last
September. He was formerly with the Washing-
ton Post. Baker began his newspaper career in
1947 with the Free Lance-Star, leaving in 1951 to
join the Post. Charles S. Rowe, ’45, editor and
co-publisher of the Free Lance-Star, in com-
menting on the return of Baker said, “The Free
Lance-Star is fortunate to obtain the services of
such a highly qualified newsman as Bob Baker.”

1948

CHARLES McDowELL, Washington correspon-
dent for the Richmond Times-Dispatch, has been
named recipient of a new journalism award at
the College of William and Mary. The award,
sponsored by the college’s chapter of the
Society of Collegiate Journalists, is called the
William & Mary Heritage Award for Excellence
in Journalism. McDowell joined the Times-Dis-
patch in 1949 and has been the paper’s Washing-
ton correspondent and columnist since the mid
60s.

1949

HAYDEN D. AUSTIN is counsel for the Small

 

C. B. Tebbs, ’45

Business Administration in Utah. He is also
president of the Utah chapter of the Federal
Bar Association and a member of the Utah,
Colorado, and Wyoming bar associations.

James L. Dow was elected a bar commissioner to
the New Mexico State Bar Association in 1972.
He has served in several capacities including:
president of Pre-paid Legal Services, Inc.,
1975-76; president of Continuing Legal Educa-
tion, Inc., 1976-77; and president-elect on the
New Mexico State Bar, 1977. He will serve as
president of the New Mexico State Bar in 1978.

1950

THE REv. STANLEY C. BROWN is in his sixth year
as senior pastor at the Catalina United
Methodist Church in Tucson, Ariz. Westmin-
ster Press recently published his third book
God’s Plan For Marniage.

1951

SAMUEL B. HOLLIS, a member of the Alumni
Board of Directors of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, is the 1977 president of the Memphis
Area Chamber of Commerce. Hollis, president
of Federal Compress and Warehouse in
‘Memphis, has long been active in chamber
affairs. He served as vice president for
economic development prior to serving as
president-elect in 1976. Hollis also serves as
president of Southwide Incorporated of which
Federal Compress is a subsidiary, and is a
member of the board of First Tennessee
National Corp. of Memphis.

JOHN O. MARsH Jr., former counselor to Presi-
dent Ford, has become a partner in the Wash-
ington, D.C., law firm of Mays, Valentine,
Davenport & Moore.

1952

JOHN MALey, District Judge in Okmulgee,
Okla., was elected president of the Oklahoma
Judicial Conference for 1977. He was also
elected presiding judge of the Court on Judici-
ary, Trial Division, State of Oklahoma, for a
two-year period.

1956

Dr. A. BERT PRUITT spent six weeks during the
1976 summer as a visiting gynecologist in
Kabul, Afghanistan, under the auspices of
Care-Medico. He and his wife Helen have three
daughters. The family lives in Charleston, S.C.,
where Pruitt practices obstetrics and gynecol-
ogy and is on the clinic faculty at the University
of South Carolina Medical School.

1957

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. WELLFORD JR., a
daughter, Angie Gill, on March 9, 1976.

 

 

S. B. Hollis, ’51 J. M. Crews Jr., ‘59

1958

JAMES W. VAN CLEAVE has returned from
England where he worked as advertising
manager for Proctor and Gamble Limited. He
is now advertising manager of the P&G
industrial cleaning products division in Cin-
cinnati. He and his wife Barbara have a son
William and a daughter Becky who stayed in
England this year to complete her high school
program in a boarding school.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. HENry H. BOHLMAN, a
son, Henry Theodore, on July 27, 1976. The
family lives in Shaker Heights, Ohio.

JAMES M. CREws JRr., executive vice president of
First Tennessee Bank in Memphis, Tenn., has
been named general chairman of the 1977-78
United Way of Greater Memphis Campaign.

1962

Dr. EDWIN HEARON received the Ph.D. degree
in counselor education from the University of
South Carolina in August, 1976.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip R. MUNROE, a
second son, William Brian, on Aug..3, 1976.

The family lives in North Muskegon, Mich.

LANDON V. BUTLER JR. is among the members
of President Carter’s White House staff on what
has been called the “junior varsity team.”
Butler, who owned and operated a housing re-
habilitation firm in Atlanta, was a political di-
rector of the Carter campaign. He wrote a
“Transition Diary” for Newsweek magazine about
his work between election and inauguration.
Butler is the “general assistant” to Hamilton
Jordan and is termed a Deputy Chief of Staff.
Butler is also the White House liaison with or-
ganized labor.

1964

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN M. MCDANIEL, a
daughter, Elizabeth Leyburn, on April 5, 1977.
McDaniel is associate professor of
anthropology at Washington and_ Lee
University.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Howarp M. SCHRAMM
Jr., a son, Howard M. III (Chip), on April 19,
1976. Schramm is president of Turner Supply
Co., an industrial supply distributor in Mobile,
Ala.

NATHANIEL M. GriFFIN has recently become
comprehensive planning director of Little
Rock, Ark. He has an office in city hall.

 

After serving as an assistant U.S. attorney for
Maryland from 1974-77, WILLIAM M. SCHILDT
has returned to private law practice with Miles
and Stockbridge in Baltimore, Md.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES M. Stay Jr., a
daughter, Mary Catherine, March 13, 1977, in
St. Michaels, Md. Slay is an attorney engaged in
private practice.

1966

CHARLES F. CLEMENT is president of Clement
Investment Associates, a diversified real estate
corporation specializing in income property
financing. He lives in St. Louis.

DONALD W. HuFFMAN, owner of the College
‘Town Shop in Lexington, Va., and a partner in
the Roanoke law firm of Bird, Kinder & Huff-
man, has been elected director of New Bank of
Roanoke. Huffman is also secretary-treasurer
of The Stable, Inc., of Roanoke, a retail cloth-
ing store. He is on the board of directors of the
Roanoke Rotary Club, a former president of
Downtown Roanoke, Inc., the 1976 chairman
of the board of deacons in the First Presbyterian
Church, and concurrently a member of the
Governor’s Advisory Committee on Con-
sumer Education.

After being associated with the public de-
fender’s office, KENNETH E. KANEV is now en-
gaged in the private practice of law in Seattle,
Wash.

1967

WILLIAM R. BABCOCK is presently senior vice
president of Neville C. Johnson Associates,
Inc., a Richmond, Va., real estate development
and investment firm.

Dr. Gary BOKINSky has completed a surgical
residency at the Medical College of Virginia
and a fellowship in renal transplantation. He
will be on the staff at Bethesda National Naval
Hospital as a urologist from 1977-1979. He and
his wife have two children.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT TIPTON MILLER,
a daughter, Kathryn Huyett, on Nov. 21, 1976.
The family resides in Houston, Texas, where
Miller is employed by Lukens Steel Co.

JOSEPH W. Brown is now the managing partner
of his law firm in Las Vegas, Nev. He and his
wife have four sons.

JAMES DABNEY SETTLE was recently appointed
executive director of the district united

charities in Coatesville, Pa. He previously
worked with United Way organizations in Rich-
mond and Charlottesville, Va. As a USS.
Foreign Service Information Officer, he served
a tour of duty in Peru in 1972-73. He and his
wife Kay have a 3-year-old son, David.

WILLIAM M. SCHILDT (See 1964.)

1969

JORGE E. EstTrapDa is now living in Buenos Aires,
Argentina, where he is manager for Western
Geophysical Co. of America, a division of Litton
Industries. Estrada was previously a geophysi-
cal supervisor for Sun Oil Co. in Nairobi, Ken-
ya; La Paz, Bolivia; and Lima, Peru.

HAROLD F. GALLIVAN III has been promoted to
vice president of the South Carolina National
Bank in Greenville.

WILLIAM E. WINTER Jk. is a partner in the law
firm of Hau, Daniel & Winter in Gaffney, S.C

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. MARTIN Bass, a
daughter, Elizabeth Embrey, on April 1, 1977.
Formerly assistant alumni secretary ate Wash-
ington and Lee, Bass is now practicing law in
Fredericksburg, Va.

Dr. FRANK E. FISHER JR., currently in Norfolk,
Va., will start an endocrinology fellowship in
July at the University of California at Irvine,
Long Beach Veterans Administration Hospital.

1971
MARRIAGE: STEVEN L. HAWLEy and Patricia
Newland of Yorkshire, England, in November,
1976. After living and working in Africa for
four years, Hawley returned to the United
States and is employed as an environmental en-
gineer by Sea-Land Environmental Engineer-
ing, Inc. He and his wife live in Stratford, Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CorwiTH Davis Jr., a
son, Corwith III, on Feb. 27, 1977. The young
man joins an older sister. Davis is raising cattle
on his farm Bellair near Carters Bridge, Va.

ARTHUR F. CLEVELAND is enrolled in the M.B.A.
program at the University of South Carolina.

JOHN O. ELLIs JR. is living in Tacoma, Wash.,
while stationed at Fort Lewis and is working in
the office of staff judge advocate as criminal de-
fense counsel.

ROBERT J. JANTZEN JR. has been named zone

29

Class Notes

manager of the industrial sales department for
Proctor and Gamble in Cincinnati, Ohio.

PATRICK L. KEEN is currently working as assis-
tant vice president in the London, England,
offices of the First National Bank in Dallas.

STEPHEN H. KERKAM is currently employed by
the Carroll County, Md., Board of Education as
work-study coordinator at North Carroll High
School. He is also chairman of the board of the
Westminster Jaycees.

THE REV. JEFFREY B. SPENCE 1s the new pastor
at the Schroon Lake, N.Y., Community Church.

JAMES M. Stay Jr. (See 1965.)

1972
MARRIAGE: Dr. W. PHILIP MorrisseETTE III
and Patsy Scott of Norfolk, Va., in October,
1976. Morrissette graduated from _ the
University of Virginia School of Medicine and is
in his first year of residency at Riverside Hospi-
tal in Newport News, Va.

GLENN AzuMA, who graduated from Rutgers
Law School, is now engaged in private practice
in Chicago, IIl.

ROBERT G. Brooxksy will graduate from Stan-
ford Graduate School of Business in June,
1977, and has accepted a position with Morgan
Guaranty Bank in New York City.

After graduation from the T. C. Williams
School of Law at the University of Richmond,
PATRICK O’BRIEN BuFoRD is engaged in the
general practice of law in Fairfax, Va.

PHILP F, CALKINS will graduate from the Uni-
versity of ‘Texas Medical School at Houston in
June and will begin a residency in family prac-
tice the next month at the Memorial Southwest
Hospital in Houston.

WILLIAM STANWORTH Harris graduated from
the University of Tennessee College of Law last
June and is now associated with the law firm of
Schneider and Schneider in Jackson, Tenn.

CHARLES C. HOLBROOK JR. completed work on
the M.B.A. degree at William & Mary and
graduated in May.

LANDON B. Lane has been transferred to Tupe-
lo, Miss., by Action Industries, a recliner divi-
sion of the Lane Co., Inc.

JOSEPH R. MarTIN received the M.B.A. degree
from Southern Methodist University and is now
an accountant with Arthur Andersen & Co. in
Dallas, Texas.

30

JOHN P. MELLO is with GTE International
Systems Corp. of Waltham, Mass. He fre-
quently travels overseas and has responsibility
for the administration of ground station
construction for a satellite communication
network.

Dr. FREDERICK SANDS is in his second year of
residency in internal medicine at the University
of Virginia Hospital.

1973

MARRIAGE: Jorrre J. Cross II and Elise C.
Pritchett of Atlanta, Ga., on Feb. 26, 1977.
Groomsmen included Dr. Michael Murphy,
"70, Dan Murphy, ’73, and Robert Larue, ’72.
Also in attendance were Robert Burns, ’72, W.
Stanworth Harris, ’72, and L. Prentice Eager,
74. The couple lives in Houston where Cross is
a partner with the rirm of Langham, Langston
& Dyer.

MARRIAGE: RosBert N. FARRAR and Susan
Gates on Aug. 7, 1976, in Birmingham, Ala.
Among the guests were John B. Blalock Jr., ’72,
and John W. Robinson IV, 72. The couple lives
in Rome, Ga., where Farrar is an associate in the
law firm of Brinson, Askew & Berry.

ROBERT T. BRUYERE has received the Master of
Architecture degree from the University of
Pennsylvania.

Since his graduation JAMES P. DiForio Jr. has
been with the Union Savings Bank of New York
at the main office in Mamaroneck. He is
currently assistant vice president with responsi-
bility for support systems, computer and
manual; customer deposit; and loan functions.
He is also the officer in charge of retirement
plans. DiForio is enrolled in the M.B.A.
program at Iona College and will complete
work on his degree in the fall of 1977.

JOHN R. KEss.inG has been named assignment
editor for WDBJ-TV Roanoke. He will have
day-to-day responsibility for directing the
Station’s news team. Until now, Kessling has
been a reporter for WFIR radio in Roanoke;
prior to that he was news director for WLVA
radio in Lynchburg.

TIMOTHY S. WRIGHT is a partner in the Chesa-
peake, Va., law firm of Creekmore and Rine-
hart.

1974
MARRIAGE: James N. NOLAN and Marian
Frances Eyraud of Birmingham, Ala., on April
2, 1977. Among the groomsmen were John M.
Nolan, ’70, G. Archer Frierson II, ’73, and
David R. Pittman, ’75. Nolan is attending the

Cumberland Law School of Samford University
in Birmingham.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE M. TUSKEY, a
daughter, Campbell Lanier, on Dec. 17, 1976.

Davip R. BEYER is associated with First & Mer-
chants National Bank Corp. in Richmond, Va.

As director of admissions and chairman of the
language department at the Franklin School in
New York, Ray Eric CorRREA served as a
member of the visiting evaluation committee of
the Middle States Association of Colleges and
Secondary Schools in February, 1976. He has
been with the admissions office of the Fleming
School in New York since September, 1976,
where he also teaches French. He represented
this school at the Northeast Conference on the
Teaching of Foreign Languages. Having
completed studies for the M.A. in French litera-
ture at New York University, he is continuing
work on his Ph.D. He and his wife Kathy live in
Manhattan.

KENNETH GRUBER is completing his third year
of graduate school at the University of North
Carolina at Greensboro. He is working toward a
doctoral degree in social psychology.

THomas A. MATTESky is a news reporter for
WDBJ-TV in Roanoke, Va.

1975

WILLIAM H. Bueser Jr. is employed at Hunt-
Stephens Investment Firm in Dallas, Texas.
The firm specializes in the ownership and man-
agement of shopping centers. He and Billy
Moomaw, "76, Leland McCullough III, "76,
Lanny Lyles, 75, and Mike Kurilecz, ’76, have
an apartment together in Dallas.

HEnry R. GARDEN III is working a second year
as law clerk to Judge Walter E. Hoffman, ’31L,
of the United States District Court, Eastern Dis-
trict of Virginia.

PAUL GORSUCH is now attending medical school
at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadel-
phia, Pa. He transferred here from graduate
studies in physiology at Northern Arizona
University in Flagstaff.

PAUL J. LANCASTER has been named Richmond
correspondent for WDBJ-TV, the CBS outlet
in Roanoke, Va. He has special responsibility
for covering capitol politics. Lancaster has been
a news reporter for WDBJ since graduation.

1976

MARRIAGE: CHARLES FLOWERS and Susie
Trimble on March 26, 1977. William McGinty,
"76, was a member of the wedding party.

 

 

 

MARRIAGE: WIiLu1aM McGinty and Jane Bus-
key White Column Inn heiress on April 16,
1977. Charles Flowers, "76, was a member ot the
wedding party.

MARRIAGE: Cary E. Patrick JR. and Connie
Haynes on Aug. 1, 1976. Classmates Lang
Craighill, Billy Pifer, Doug Muir and Tom
Mickler were members of the wedding party.
The couple lives in Hampton, Va., where Pa-
trick is employed by W. T. Patrick and Sons
Hardware.

JEFFREY A. Baum is a first-year medical student
at the University of Virginia.

Don CarFery is back in Lexington, Va., this
spring working as W&L’s assistant tennis coach.
In addition to those duties, he is teaching tennis
privately, selling Dynique products, has intro-
duced and is distributing Oroweat bread, is
grinding peanut butter and selling it in a local
health food store and is having a good time.

Following his graduation, DONALD G. CARROLL
worked for six months in Germany and Switzer-
land for the Universal Machinery Export Co. of
Switzerland. He recently returned to the
United States and has accepted a position with
IBM in Baltimore. He is playing lacrosse with
the Chesapeake Lacrosse Club and is enrolled
in graduate courses at Loyola College.

HUNTER N. CHARBONNET is currently working
as a realtor associate in the residential property
division of Latter & Blum Inc. in New Orleans,
La.

JOHN H. KERSHAW is employed as a title
examiner for the Real Estate Title Co., Inc. of
Baltimore, Md.

RICHARD F. MaAcDOwELL and M. REED
MorGan are working for U.S. Senator Donald
Riegle of Michigan.

JAMES F. MCMENAMIN has been awarded a
teaching fellowship for writing seminars at
Johns Hopkins University while enrolled in
their Master of Arts degree program.

JOHN G. PopGajny is assistant head of the
grounds department at Crozet-Chester Medical
Center in Upland, Pa. He plans to pursue a
degree in Horticulture at Temple University.

ROBERT F. SEARLES, a second lieutenant in the
U.S. Army, is stationed at Edgewood Arsenal,
Md., where he is involved in research and de-
velopment in the Environmental Pollution
Abatement Division.

Since graduating from W&L Skip SIL-
VERLIGHT has had a variety of experiences

| Celebrants at the wedding of George Toney,

°72, to Lorie Lichtenwalner on April 23 includ-
ed Corwith Davis Jr.,’71, with his new son, Cor-

| with III, John Gunner, ’71, the bride and

groom, Joe Holt, ’73, and Ed Lane, ’72. The
wedding was held at the Davis farm, Bellair,
near Charlottesville. After a summer trip to
Europe, George and Lorie plan to settle in

Rockbridge County.

and jobs. He first traveled to Aruba, Venezue-
la, to gamble but was unsuccessful in his black-
jack playing. After “losing (his) shirt” he went
home to St. Croix, Virgin Islands, where he
took a bartending job. He soon left for Con-
necticut when he was offered a position doing
promotional lay-outs for a graphics firm.
Within weeks after his arrival, the firm folded.
He returned to St. Croix and began a succession
of jobs which included bar manager at St. Croix
by the Sea, a resort hotel, disc jockey of a local
soul station, and finally manager of Luiggi’s, an
Itahan restaurant. in his spare time Silverlight
enjoyed scuba diving for lobsters. He is
currently in Lexington, Va., doing “volunteer
work” while deciding whether to _ begin
graduate studies in law, theatre administration
or hotel management. The past year’s experi-
ences have convinced him that everyone should
work tor a year betore going to graduate school,
if that is their direction. He says it is necessary to
experience the job market before throwing
oneselt back into the academia. But whether
one is to keep a job for the entire year or sample
many during that time, he did not say.

HuGu Sisson has worked as manager of the
W&L record store since graduation. He is also
director of theatre at neighboring VMI. In that
capacity he has directed two plays, Real Inspec-
tor Hound by Tom Stoppard and Marat/Sade by
Peter Weiss. He is on the board of directors of
the newly-organized community theatre group,
The Nickel and Diamond Theatre. Sisson
hopes to go to Poland this summer to take part
in a comprehensive theatre workshop.

PEYTON A. VIA is working in Norfolk, Va., as a
draftsman for the planning department of
Langley, McDonald and Overman, consulting
engineers.

In Memoriam

 

1906

THE REv. WILLIAM HENnry Foarp, retired Pres-
byterian minister, died March 9, 1977, atter a
long illness. He was a graduate of the Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond and served
his first pastoral assignment at McAllister Me-
morial Presbyterian Church in Covington, Va.
Later he served in Easter, Va., and went to West
Virginia in 1930 as pastor of the Bramwell Pres-
cee Church. He also served as pastor for
churches in Brooklyn, Beckley and Logan,
W. Va.

1916
FRANK COLVILLE died March 18, 1977. He was
founder of Burroughs-Ross Colville Co., one of

the oldest industries in McMinnville, Tenn.
Colville was a veteran of World War I and a
member of the First Presbyterian Church.

1921

WILLIAM BELL WISDOM, business and civic
leader of New Orleans, La., died March 19,
1977. In 1932 he organized the William B. Wis-
dom, Inc. Advertising Agency and for 38 years
he conducted the enterprise before retiring.
Following his retirement, Wisdom continued to
maintain an office in the California Building.
He served on the boards of numerous civic and
charitable organizations, hospitals, and_li-
braries including the Ochsner Foundation Hos-
pital, the New Orleans Public Library, the Eye,
Ear, Nose & Throat Hospital and the YMCA.
Wisdom was a major in the U.S. Marine Corps
during World War II and saw 33 months of ac-
tive duty. He was renowned as a rare book
collector. He compiled six significant
collections: the Thomas Wolfe Collection, now
in the Rare Book Library of Harvard Univer-
sity; the William Faulkner Collection; the Sher-
lock Holmes Collection; the Huey P. Long Col-
lection; the Louisiana Collection, covering
books and documents dating back to 1695; and
the General Collection, including first editions
of Thomas Browne, Samuel Johnson, Keats,
Shelley, Byron, Wordsworth, Swift, Browning
and Scott. Wisdom served Washington and Lee
as class agent for the Alumni Fund, president of
the New Orleans Alumni Chapter, member of
the Alumni Board of Directors and chairman of
the Alumni Fund Council.

1924
FRANCIS MARION COLE died March 9, 1977.
After 24 years with Magruder, Inc., a retail
fancy food firm in Washington, D.C., Cole re-
tired in 1948 and returned to his “first love,” the
Sunnyslope dairy farm in Purcellville, Va.

1935

DUNCAN G. GRONER, longtime newspaperman
ind journalist, died March 17, 1977, at the
Veterans’ Administration Hospital in Lake
City, Fla. In the 30s, Groner worked as a re-
porter on the Kansas City Star and for a time
served as a toreign correspondent in Europe
for the Washington Post. For 15 years Groner
did freelance work in New York City and also
published a Wall Street newsletter for Laidlow
& Company. In the early 60s he moved to
Florida where he edited and published the Clay
County Crescent. Groner joined the St. Peters-
burg Independent in 1967 but changed to the St.
Petersburg Times in 1970. Between 1970-75 he
worked with the Suffolk News Herald as well as
Norfolk’s Virginia Pilot-Ledger-Star, penning a
popular column which he called “Potlikker.”

31

1938

DANIEL W. WILKINSON JR.,.a Newport News,
Va., lawyer for 40 years, died March 28, 1977.
He was associated with the firm of West, Wil-
kinson, Stein and West. He began his practice in
1937 with the firm of Lett, Murray and Ford,
which became one of the Peninsula’s most pres-
tigious law firms. The firm underwent several
changes and in 1971 took its present title. Wil-
kinson was a past president of the Newport
News Bar Association and a member of the Vir-
ginia State Bar Association, Virginia Trial
Lawyers Association, American Bar Association
and the Institute Association of Barristers. Last
year he was named president of the Newport
News Kiwanis Club. He served as a Navy officer
in World War II, attaining the rank of lieuten-
ant commander.

1940

CHARLES L. GREEN JR., registrar at Washington
and Lee from 1949 to 1953, died April 24,
1977, in Charlotte, N.C. Since 1966 Green had
been president of Survanalysis of Charlotte,
Inc., a marketing research and consulting firm.
He was author of several published articles on
population trends in Charlotte. Green was an
active member of St. Andrews Episcopal
Church.

JAMES WELLS HAMMETT, a native of -Shreve-
port, La., and former assistant city attorney
there, died April 2, 1977, in a hospital in Biloxi,
Miss., after a sudden iliness. Hammett served as
general attorney for South Central Bell tele-
phone Co. in Louisiana with offices in New Or-
leans since 1960.

194]

Fort PIpEs JR., owner of a real estate company
of the same name in New Orleans, La., died
March 28, 1977. Pipes developed a prominent
subdivision in New Orleans known as
Timberlane. He was also editor of the Sugar
Journal, a member of the Stratford Club, the
Boston Club, Timberlane Country Club and
various carnival organizations. He served as a
captain in the Marine Corps in World War II
and was an active member of the U.S. Army Re-
serve.

1949

Harwoop GARNETT SCOTT, an attorney in
Woodstock, Va., died June 24, 1976. Scott was a
substitute judge for the Shenandoah County
General District Court and a former assistant
U.S. Attorney for the Western District of Vir-
ginia. He was a member of the Woodstock
Chamber of Commerce, American Legion,
Veterans of Foreign Wars, and both the local
and state bar associations.

32

 

Help us round up
these lost alumni

The Alumni Office does not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.

Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,

send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

John D. Anderson, ’66
Kenneth S. George, ’70
Lawrence E. Jarchow, ’50
George H. Jones III, ’72
William M. Kinnaird, ’49
Everett M. McClintock, ’51
Ralph A. McIntosh, ’74
Richard E. Morrison, ’32
William P. Morrison, ’37
Philip M. Morrow, ’52
Sanford H. Morrow III, 63
James M. Morton, ’58
Arthur D. Mosby, ’24
Charles E. Moser, ’26
Henry N. Moses, ’28
Morgan E. Moses, ’70L
Harold E. Moss, ’30
Arthur E. Moulton, ’14
Grant E. Mouser IV, ’77
Martin F. Mullin, 69
Tage Munthe-Kaas, ’47
Paul L. Munyon, ’62
George M. Murray Jr., 41
James A. Murray, ’66

Jon R. Murray, 60
Kenneth S. Murray, 54
Robert J. Murray, ’42
William A. Murray Jr., ’28
William A. Mussen, ’37
John M. Myers, ’56

Paul E. Myers, ’29
Richard C. Myers, ’36
Sam A. Myford, ’26

John R. Myrick, ’32

Henry C. Nall Jr., ’07
Charles B. Nance, 34
Robert Nash, ’62

Peyton P. Nattinger, ’67
Howard E. Nay, ’20
William J. Neely, ’34
Craig R. Nelson, ’72
Wilson H. Netterville, 28
William L. Newman, ’14L
Frederick H. Newton, 59
Tompkins J. Newton Jr., ’25L
William K. Newton Jr., ’36
David E. Nichols Jr., ’32
Richard M. Nichols, ’52
William M. Nickel, ’73
Arthur E. Nielsen, 39
Nils C. B. Nielsen, ’38
William C. Niemeyer, ’51
Edward A. Nix Jr., ’31
Lawrence B. Nobles, ’22
Benjamin L. Noel, 58
Wilbur K. Noel, ’38L

Charles A. Nolan, ’13
Frank R. Nolley, ’16
Michael A. Norell, ’59
David W. Norland, ”78
Charles B. Norris, ’49L
Fred C. Nowell, ’28
Francis W. Nullmeyer, ’23L
Victor E. Nunan, 65
William R. Nutt, ’43
Warren U. Ober, ’48

Owen E. Obetz, 61

James M. O’Brien, ’08L
Arthur M. O’Neil, ’26
Dennis R. O’Neil, ’67
William F. O’Neil, ’51L

S. Jonas Orrling, ’70
George H. Osborne, ’23
Donald N. O’Sullivan, ’66L

- William H. Oswald Jr., ’43

William M. Otter Jr., °45L

_ Clinton P. Owen, ’27
Harry M. Owen, ’19

Stephen T. Owen, ’65

_ Beverly M. Owens, ’49
_ Paul H. Owsley, ’26

John C. Packard, ’06
Paul H. Page, ’26

Alfred P. Palmer, ’57
Louis H. Palmer, ’28
Ernesto A. Paredes, ’11
Edwin C. Parker Jr., 60
Francis T. Parker Jr., 29
James A. Parker, ’52
John F. Parker, ’30
Josephus D. Parker Jr., ’32
Newton A. Parker Jr., ’28
Charles W. Parks, ’14
John M. Parramore, ’49
Thearon H. Parsons Jr., 55
William R. Paton, 68
Julian G. Patton, 19
Edwin J. Payne, ’05
Theodore Pearson, ’43
Veltrie F. Pearson, ’29
Perry H. Pedrick Jr., ’50
Samuel Peerless, ’38
Thomas H. Penny, ’60
Walter B. Perkins, ’06
Raymond R. Petersen, ’78
Henry A. Petter III, 38
Marlen Pew Jr., 36
Robert W. Pharr, ’29
Ryland T. Phelps, ’10
Albert G. Phillips, ’66
Peter J. Phillips, ’07
Robert D. Phillips Jr., 50

Robert W. Phillips, ’66
Ronald W. Phillips, ’54
Samuel L. Phillips Jr., 07
Berry G. Pierce Jr., ’43
Harold C. Pierce Jr., 42
Marvin D. Pierce III, ’54
William C. Pierce, ’24
Wilbur D. Pinckard, ’23
Otis E. Pinion, ’51L
Curtis E. Piper, ’29
Randolph W. Pipes, ’12
John R. Pipkin, ’56
William Pite, ’33

Paul Poague, ’07
Arminius C. Pole, ’13
James S. Pollak, ’32

O. Brooks Pollock Jr., ’58
John P. Pomeroy, ’45
Arthur E. Pope, ’36
Donald C. Poppke, ’71
Gerald M. Portner, 757
Warren M. Posey, 63
Richard E. Poush Jr., ’71
Charles S. Powell Jr., 46
Horace A. Powell, ’38
Trevor J. Powell, ’17
O’Keefe Powers, ’28
James H. Poythress, ’60
Albert Preston III, ’73
Silas M. Preston, ’29
Charles D. Price, ’37
Darrel M. Price, 32
Sidney H. Price, ’23
Kirkland S. Prince, ’26
William S. Powell, ’55
Drew E. Pruit, ’08
Lawson Pugh, ’17

Ralph K. Pulis, ’31
Thomas F. Raines, ’14
James Raisbeck Jr., ’22
Harry E. Raisor, 52
Pleas Ramsey, ’35
Robert D. Ramsey, ’12, ’14L
Edward B. Rannells Jfr., ’33
Peter K. Ranney, ’54
Arnold M. Raphael, ’40
Burton C. Rawlins, ’32
John D. Ray Jr., 54
Thomas R. Rea Jr., 59
Daniel R. Reason, ’46
James G. Reed, ’49L
Maurice S. Reed, ’13
Robert P. Reese, ’35
Robert C. Reeve, 753
Jack D. Reid, ’47

Richard S. Reid, 63

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

For members and their immediate families presents Charter trips continue to be an exceptional
value despite increased fuel costs and currency

PICK A TRIP 1977 prioee. Make your reservation NOW |"

 

PARIS/CHATEAUX/ ‘our Trip Includes:
ZURICH/THUN

@ Deluxe accommodations for 4 nights in Paris at the PARIS
SHERATON*

August 13-28, 1977

Dulles Departure

@ Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Paris
$7 2 G

to Tours, the Heart of the Chateau Country
@® Charming accommodations in tours for 3 nights at the HOTEL
Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $150.00

  
   

DE L’ UNIVERS, HOTEL CRIDEN, or LE ROYAL *
© Continental breakfast daily in Tours
Jet transportation from Paris to Zurich tt
Deluxe accommodations for 4 nights in Zurich at the Sb conifi-
cent, new MOVENPICK HOLIDAY INN***
Welcome wine and cheese party in Zurich
Continental breakfast daily in Zurich
Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Zurich
to Thun via the spectacular Brunig Alpine Pass
Charming Alpine accommodations in Thun for 3 nights at the
ELITE HOTEL THUN or HOTEL FREIENHOF ***
Swiss Continental buffet breakfast daily in Thun
Traditional wine and cheese party in Thun
Exciting low cost optional tours available
U.S. departure tax ($3.00) included
All gratuities for bellmen, chambermaids, and doormen
All round trip transfers and luggage handling from airport to hotel
Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation
Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality Desk, staffed by
on-site team of professionals
*Some tours will be 3 nights Paris/4 nights Tours.
** Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge.
***Some tours will be 3 nights Zurich/4 nights Thun.
\ ee er i Ni a t Departure taxes of France (approx. $4.64) and
Ves Switzerland (approx. $2.94) not included.

tt Subject to Fifth Freedom Approval. If Fifth Freedom Approval is not obtained,
surface transportation will be provided via first-class train accommodations.

 

 

Your Trip Includes-

© Round trip jet transportation to Nairobi (meals and
beverages served aloft*”*).

® Deluxe accommodations at the Nairobi Hilton or
the Nairobi Serena Hotel

e Continental breakfast daily in Nairobi

DELUXE @ Deluxe accommodations for two nights at Taita Hills

i, Game Lodge
Columbus Day Holiday e Game Run in Tsavo Park in your private chauffeured

October 2-13, 1977 mini-bus

Dulles De pa rfture @ Three full meals per day at Taita Hills, including one

evening s dining and game viewing at Salt Lick Lodge
$799

@ Deluxe accommodations for three nights at the Mt.
(+15% Tax & Service)

Meru Hotel in Arusha
e Continental breakfast daily in Arusha
Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $150.00

 
     

 

 

e Game Run through Amboseli Game Reserve in your
private chauffeured mini-bus

@ Exciting low cost optional tours available

U.S. Departure Tax ($3.00) included

All round trip transfers and luggage handling from

airport to hotel

All gratuities for baggage handling, hotel services and

taxes, as well as entrance fees to all places of interest

and to all game parks in the itinerary are included

Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation

Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality Desk staffed

by on-site team of professionals

**® Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge

+ Nairobi departure tax of approx. $3.00 not included.
Visa fees are not included; Our travel agent will
process visas.

 

 

For further information, contact and mail deposits to: W. C. Washburn, Washington and Lee University Alumni Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450 — PHONE: (703) 463-9111, Extension 214, 318

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

