 

 

 

 

 

 

NOVEMBER 1976

 

 

 

 

 

ol

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 51, Number 8, November 1976

William C. Washburn, °40..............0000cccccccccceeeceeeeee Editor

Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68.....................cccccccceeeeee. Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel.......0..000..... Editorial Assistants
Sally Mamn ooo... ccc eee ttete cette Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Liberty Hall and the Revolution ........00...0000000... ]
W&L in Philadelphia oo... 8
W&L’s Bicentennial in Review .....................0000.8.. 12
In Praise of Homor 2.0.00... cette 14
Smith at Oxford oo... ccceeee ett eees 16
Cook on Campus oo... 17
Winter Athletic Schedule ......0.00000000 oe. 20
Annual Fund Leadership .......0.000000 cc 21
Chapter News ooo... etc eteteseetereeees 22
Class Notes 20....0000.00cccccccceee ccc ccecssceeeseeeeverseeeennee, 25
In Memoriam 2000.00.00 ccccccccccceccsecceeeevesseeeeees 33
Distinguished Alumnus Award. .............0.00..00.00...... 36

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

THomas B. Brancu III, 758, Atlanta, Ga.
President

J. Tuomas Toucuton, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.
Vice President

CHARLES C. STIEFF II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WasHBurNn, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DuDLEy, 758, Richmond, Va.

Epwin J. Foxtz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.

Marion G. HEATWOLE, '41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HO tus, ’51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.

Jerry G. SouTtu, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Rosert M. Waite II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

-_—
o=—_

ON THE COVER: The Washington and Lee crest
superimposed on a huge, lighted reproduction of
the Declaration of Independence was the back-
drop for a black-tie banquet in the Great Hall of
the Franklin Institute in Philadelphia, attended
by members of the Board of Trustees, Alumni
Board of Directors, and Lee Associates. ‘The oc-
casion was one of several memorable events that
marked a commemorative gathering of W&L peo-

ple in Philadelphia. See page 8. Photo by Sally
Mann. |

 

 

 

“Light-Horse Harry” Lee was awarded one of the eight medals voted by Congress during
the American Revolution. He was decorated for his daring raid on Paulus Hook, N. J.
in August, 1779. Lee was a friend and classmate of William Graham at the College of New
Jersey at Princeton and, in later life, took an active interest in Liberty Hall, which
Graham headed. Both his father, Henry Lee, and his father-in-law, Charles Carter, donated
money to Liberty Hall. His son, Robert, and grandson, Custis, were presidents of the
school. The gold medal is displayed in Lee Chapel, where the Commander of Lee’s Legion

is buried.

“Liberty! Liberty!”

The Academy and the Revolution

by Dr. I. Taylor Sanders

University Historian

_ Here we repulsed them again; and they a second time
made us retreat back to our first ground, where we were
deceived for reinforcement of Hessians, whom we took
for our own, and cried to them to see if they were our
friends and shouted LIBERTY! LIBERTY! and advanced
up till they let off some guns; then we fired sharply
on them, and made them retreat a little. But presently the
light horse came on us, and not being defended by our own
light horse, nor reinforced,—though firing long ceased in
all other parts, we were obliged to run, and many were
sore chased, and some cut down.

From Rev. Sam Houston’s account of
the Battle of Guilford Courthouse

“Liberty,” the young man penned with a flourish, “is the
nurse of Riches, Literature and Heroism.”

It was early in 1780, in the midst of a hard winter. Ice
covered the land from the Great Lakes to southwestern
Virginia. Since September, Samuel Houston had been copying
a manuscript belonging to his teacher Rev. William Graham,
Rector of Liberty Hall Academy. ‘The American Revolution
had very nearly brought the school, located on Timber Ridge,
to a halt. A few students, however, lingered on to study with

Graham at his farmhouse, situated “within a few poles” of the
ridge where the imposing ruins of Liberty Hall stand today.

The capstone of Graham’s curriculum was the impressive
series of lectures by Rev. John Witherspoon, Graham’s teacher
at the College at Princeton, New Jersey. Houston’s task was to
copy a portion of the lectures on Moral Philosophy, and then,
apparently to meet with Graham to discuss their salient points.

Witherspoon, who had signed the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, believed that the prime aim of education should
be the preparation of young men for public service. Graham
also championed this ideal which was made concrete in the
Revolution by men connected with Liberty Hall. At every
level, trustee, teacher, student and alumnus, they served the
new nation in battle, in debate and in prayer.

Liberty may well be the “nurse of riches, literature and
heroism,” but it demanded a heavy sacrifice. By 1780 currency
depreciation had become a plague. Officers who provided
their own horses found that the cost of a suitable mount equal-
ed 10 years of wages. Consuming their private fortunes, many
patriots sank into poverty. The “endowment” of Liberty Hall
dwindled as well. Between 1778 and 1783 a treasury worth

]

 

more than 900 pounds had shrunk to the paltry sum of just
over 40 pounds.

Some of the sons of Liberty Hall would find riches, partic-
ularly in frontier regions opened by the severed ties with
Great Britain. Many would find ample opportunity for
heroics. Yet, still others were left destitute by the war, or were
lost to unmarked graves.

Houston finished transcribing the lectures in February,
1780. A year later he was spending a cold night on wet ground
in the piney woods of North Carolina preparing to fight
Cornwallis at Guilford Courthouse. The battle forced the
British general to take the first steps of a retreat that ended
at Yorktown.

‘The road from Lexington to Guilford had been long and
hard for Houston and his fellow militiamen from Augusta
and Rockbridge counties. Houston left home on 26 February,
1781. Marching by slow stages, he reached the Dan River on
9 March. Militiamen were not -accustomed to crossing over
the borders of their home states. ‘The commander of the 200
Virginians later reported that only “with difficulty” could he
persuade “the men to cross the Dan into Carolina... .”

On 13 March the Virginians, a mixture of raw recruits
and seasoned veterans, prepared for battle. Houston wrote in
his journal: “We paraded several times, and at last fired
in Platoons and Battalions, in doing which one of the North
Carolina militia was shot through the head.”

Enough sons of Liberty Hall were present at the battle to
hold a reunion. But they were concerned with other business
that day.

Although it may never be possible to compile a com-
plete list of the alumni of Liberty Hall and its predecessor
Augusta Academy, there are more than 50 known alumni who
studied between 1749 and 1782. Of these, well over half are
known to have served in the war, mostly as officers.

A number of them, regulars and militiamen, converged
at Guilford, where they were linked by family and school ties
as well as by patriotism.

Col. William Campbell, a hard-riding alumnus of Au-
gusta Academy, had commanded the army of frontiersmen and
mountainmen who decimated a British and Tory force at
Kings Mountain the previous October. Tall, muscular and red-
haired, he was a veteran of numerous forays against the In-
dians. He joined the Americans at Guilford with 60 hand-
picked veterans of Kings Mountain and was the ranking
Liberty Hall man present. He pursued Cornwallis all the
way to Yorktown and died just prior to the surrender at age
36. His young friend Lafayette wept openly over Campbell's
coffin. :

Campbell’s orphaned daughter married a son of Col.

William Preston, one of the original Liberty Hall trustees of
1776. A native of Ireland, Col. Preston had a long career of

2

 

While Robert E. Lee was president of Washington College, he wrote
a biographical sketch of his father, “Light-Horse Harry” Lee, pub-
lished as a part of the elder Lee’s war memoirs in 1869. Col. Lee's
interest in Liberty Hall was extensive. It is believed that he in-
fluenced Washington to donate his James River Canal stock to the
school, and he was instrumental in procuring the gift of the Society
of the Cincinnati of Virginia. The map is from Lee’s memoirs,
which ranks among the finest campaign reminiscences in the Eng-
lish language. ‘The asterisks superimposed on the map mark the
approximate position of Samuel Houston during the Battle of
Guilford. After his unit was scattered, his retreat took him some 14
miles to the north. \

 

Virginia Historical Society

public service as burgess in Williamsburg, county surveyor,
coroner and militia colonel. At Guilford he served under
Campbell, whose sharpshooters operating in conjunction with
“Light-Horse Harry” Lee, covered the American flanks and in-
flicted heavy losses on the enemy.

Riding with Lee’s elite corps was Henry Bowyer, who after
joining the army as a private had been promoted to first
lieutenant the previous month. Bowyer, a nephew of an ori-
ginal Liberty Hall trustee, served on the board of Washington
College in later life. During the Yorktown campaign, his uncle
led another contingent of Rockbridge and Augusta troops
against Cornwallis.

In the early nineteenth century, trustee Henry Bowyer was
instrumental in winning a $25,000 endowment for the school
from the Society of the Cincinnati of Virginia. After the war
Bowyer had been one of six men with academy connections
who joined the society, an organization composed of Con-
tinental officers, who had rendered long service during the war.
The original motion to grant the endowment was made by
Bowyer’s old chief, “Light-Horse Harry’ Lee, who had been
William Graham’s classmate and friend at Princeton.

If long-term service in the Continental line helped to break
down regional jealousies and turn the Colonies into a na-
tion, service in the militia was a prime factor in revolu-
tionizing the general populace and transforming it into a
people.

At Guilford Courthouse, the Augusta and Rockbridge mili-
tia units were commanded by Liberty Hall men, who were
brothers-in-law. Col. Samuel McDowell, who led the Rock-
bridge contingent, was no stranger to warfare. His father had
been killed by Indians near the forks of the James River in
1742. A captain at the bloody battle of Point Pleasant in 1774,
McDowell was one of the most important men of the Valley,
having been a member of the House of Burgesses, a delegate to
the state constitutional convention, and a member of the first
Virginia General Assembly in October, 1776. In June, 1781, he
was appointed to the Governor’s Council.

Col. McDowell, an original trustee who erected the first
Liberty Pole seen in the Valley, was very active in the
school’s early fund-raising efforts. As a member of the Gen-
eral Assembly’s committee on religion in 1776, he attempted
to disestablish the Anglican church in Virginia.

Col. McDowell’s brother-in-law, Col. George Moffett, had
studied at the academy in Augusta and was a trustee of Lib-
erty Hall. At Guilford, he commanded the Augusta battalion.
A veteran of the Indian wars and the battle of Point Pleasant,
he had served his county as justice of the peace.

Cols. McDowell and Moffett were well served at Guilford
by other academy men. Alexander Stuart, McDowell’s batta-
lion major, had donated 40 acres of land to Liberty Hall in
1776 and served on the board. He came to Guilford wielding a

The modified sabre carried by Maj. Alex-
ander Stuart at the Battle of Guilford has
been called ‘a ponderous broadsword” and
“a somewhat uncouth weapon, presumably of
local manufacture.” His family later present-
ed the weapon to the Virginia Historical
Society. Stuart, a Liberty Hall trustee, was
captured at Guilford, where Cornwallis held
the field, but lost about a third of his army.

massive broadsword and astride a beautiful mare.

During the fight the horse was killed and Maj. Stuart was
captured. Stripped by the British and left standing on the field
in cocked hat, shirt and shoes, he spent six months on a
British prison ship off Cape Fear, North Carolina.

Other sons of the school fared even worse. Capt. Alexander
Tedford, an alumnus of Augusta Academy and leader of a
Rockbridge company, was killed in the opening stage of the
battle. Capt. James Tate, another alumnus, was mortally
wounded. A veteran of the American victory at Cowpens the
previous January, Tate had returned home only to retrace his
steps to join the Americans at Guilford. Tate, whose com-
pany won Lee’s praise for its conduct at Cowpens, was on
reconnaissance with Lee and Campbell just prior to the major
fight at Guilford. After a skirmish with Tarleton’s “Green
Dragoons,”. Lee’s unit ran smack into the main British force.
In the fire fight Tate received a mortal wound.

His widow, a cousin of Maj. Stuart, later remarried. But
Capt. Tedford’s widow never recovered. She went south in a
vain search for his body and, it was said, “‘crazed by her hard-
ships and suffering,” she soon died.

Father and son often accompanied each other to battle.
Archibald Stuart, the son of the captured battalion major,
studied at Augusta Academy and enrolled at the College of
William and Mary where he was president of Phi Beta
Kappa. When he answered the call to join his father at Guil-
ford, he brought..the seal of the Society with him and car-
ried it through the battle.

When the Society was revived at Williamsburg after a lapse
of some 70 years, his family returned the seal to Williams-
burg, where it was lost in the chaos following the Civil War.
After the Revolution, Stuart had a distinguished career in
politics and was a trustee at Washington College. Stuart’s con-
temporary, John McDowell, may have interrupted his studies
to join his father in the field.

By 1781, Col. Samuel McDowell’s son had already done
his fair share of fighting. At the opening of the war he en-
listed as an ensign in the 12th Virginia, Continental Line. By
the time he resigned in December, 1779, he had risen to the
rank of lieutenant, had crossed the Delaware with Washing-
ton, had been in the battles of Princeton and Trenton, had
suffered at Valley Forge, had been wounded at Brandywine,
and had fought at Monmouth. It is quite possible that he
was studying with Graham at Liberty Hall prior to the march
to Guilford, where he fought in the line with his father.

It is difficult, perhaps impossible, to determine how many
Liberty Hall boys marched with Houston to Guilford. A strong
local tradition maintained that students formed a sizable
portion of Capt. Tate’s company. But this is impossible to
prove.

Years later, however, Graham’s brother wrote a short paper,

3

 

in which he discussed the students’ exploits. Edward Graham,
who studied under his brother and taught for many years at
the College before his death in 1840, would have been about
16 years old in 1781.

He wrote that “several’’ Liberty Hall students were drafted
when “Cornwallis was marching triumphantly across the Caro-
linas toward Virginia .. .” and described how his neighbors
expressed their low opinion of the “military prowess of stu-
dents .. . It ain’t worthwhile to send these students to the war.
They can’t fight. I would not give a chew of tobacco for a
hundred of them. Why only look at their hands! ‘They as
soft as the hands of ladies.”

Graham maintained that the “Majority of students not
only, merely behaved themselves well” at Guilford, “but
they distinguished themselves,” displaying “daring courage...
calmness and self-possession, in the midst of danger, which
has seldom been exceeded, even by” veterans.

He explained that were “it proper in this place, I could
relate anecdotes” to prove the students’ worth. Unfortunately
he neither names the students involved, nor does he elabor-
ate.

Houston, whose journal does not mention such a group,
is not listed in militia returns for the period. At most there
would only have been a handful of men studying with Gra-
ham in 1781, and military records and student lists are very
incomplete for the period.

Among the other alumni present were Dr. William Brown,
surgeon of the Rockbridge militia, Samuel Blackburn, who
would receive a B.A. degree with Houston at Liberty Hall’s
first commencement in 1785 and Lieut. James Mitchell of
Tate’s company, who like Houston became a Presbyterian
minister and trustee of the school. Houston’s brother James,
an alumnus, may also have been present.

Capt. William Lyle, the son of a trustee, a probable alum-
nus of the school and a future trustee, was commissary of-
ficer for the Rockbridge troops. Apparently Lyle drew courier
duty during the battle. Shortly before the fight Houston saw
him riding by, hailed the staff officer and asked whether or
not the Rockbridge troops would see action.

He soon got his answer. Houston and his companions
were placed on the left in the second of two militia lines.
Their task, which they did well, was to blunt the charge of
British regulars, who would then face four fresh regiments
from the Virginia and Maryland Continental lines. After fir-
ing his rifle 14 times in a see-sawing tree-to-tree fight that last-
ed more than two hours, Houston and his compatriots were
scattered by British cavalry. The ferocity of the fight was un-
derscored by the fact that almost half of the dead and close to
a third of the wounded in Houston’s brigade were from Rock-
bridge units. But they had carpeted the field with British
dead and wounded, and were obliquely complimented by

4

Cornwallis, who after the battle inquired specifically about
those “rebels who took position” in the “orchard and fought
so furiously.”

A more grisly compliment was offered by a captured
British regular, who asked to see one of the Augusta long
rifles after the fight. He is said to have exclaimed: “God and
law should forbid the use of such deadly weapons.”

In later years, Houston recounted how on the morning
of the battle he climbed into the top of an old tree and
“committed himself to the wise and protecting providence of
God.” Prayer and sermons helped fortify eighteenth-century
warriors from the backwoods.

One Liberty Hall trustee, the Rev. James Waddell, pas-
tor of Tinkling Springs Church near Staunton, preached a
sermon to the Augusta troops before the long march to North
Carolina. Samuel Doak, an Augusta Academy alumnus, who
graduated from Princeton College in 1775, delivered a fierce
sermon to the “over-mountain’’ men who gathered in ‘Ten-
nessee before the trek that ended at Kings Mountain. One
original trustee, the Rev. Charles Cummings, went on cam-
paign against the Cherokee in October, 1776, preaching to
the troops along the way and carrying a rifle over his arm.

The Rev. William Graham, a firm champion of indepen-
dence, was elected militia captain. Some months after Guil-
ford, during Tarleton’s raid on Charlottesville, he shouldered
a musket, rallied his troops and marched north to Rockfish
gap to stop the British from entering the Valley. Had not
Tarleton turned back toward Richmond, he would have found
the mountain east of present-day Waynesboro, ‘“‘covered with
riflemen.” Trustees and sons of Augusta Academy and Liberty
Hall were willing to defend their homes as well as to fight
the British far afield.

They took part in campaigns that began with Dunmore’s
War and ended at Yorktown. Many fought Indians in Kentucky
and the Carolinas and served with valour in all theatres as
militiamen and regulars. Several rose to prominence in the
political sphere as well.

Independence led to a marked increase in the number of
places available at the higher levels of government. Liberty
broadened the base of the Virginia oligarchy. The inner coun-
cils of government opened to the sons of the Valley, who
could not have dreamed of holding high office under the
Crown. ‘Iwo members of the original board moved into this
new revolutionary talent elite.

William Christian, who was Patrick Henry’s brother-in-law,
was a Virginia senator from 1776 to 1777 and from 1780 to
1784. The son of a wealthy merchant, he led successful punitive
expeditions against the Indians in 1781 and was named to
head a peace commission on the frontier. Emigrating to Ken-
tucky, with many of his contemporaries in the mid-1780s, he
was killed by Indians in April, 1786. Christian County was

 

A portion of Edward Graham’s paper, signed “‘A Citizen,” in which
he lauded the effectiveness of Liberty Hall students during the
Battle of Guilford.

 

A page from Samuel Houston’s manuscript of Witherspoon’s lec-
tures on which appears the line: “Liberty is the nurse of Riches,
Literature, and Heroism.”

From McCormick Library Special Collections

one of five in Kentucky named for members of the Liberty
Hall board of 1776, or alumni of the school.

Sampson Matthews rose to prominence in Staunton by
operating a tavern and general store. This board member
served in the Virginia Senate from 1776 to 1782 and from
1790 to 1792. An alumnus of Augusta Academy, he was re-
sponsible for raising Virginia troops in 1781 for the southern
campaign.

‘Taken as a group, the original 24 trustees included the
leading men of the Valley. Excluding Graham, eight were
Justices, lawyers and politicians, five were ministers, five were
planters, three were merchants, one was a physician and one
was a commercial planter. They expressed their patriotism
two months before the Declaration of Independence, when
they christened their little school Liberty Hall. At least 10
served on campaign during the war.

United by marriage ties and a common interest in educa-
tion, the trustees continued to play an important part in the
exciting affairs of the day. Of course they did not always
agree politically. Although Graham was heatedly opposed to
the Federal Constitution, six members of Graham’s board
voted for ratification at the State Convention in 1788. With-
out their votes that instrument would have been rejected by
the state.

The tradition of public service was continued by the
members of Liberty Hall’s first graduating class. The 12 men
who received bachelor degrees on the second Wednesday in
September, 1785, had completed their courses of study some
time before. Collectively they achieved an impressive joint
record of public service.

Among their number, which included at least three veterans
of the war, were a governor, members of the Virginia, Georgia
and ‘Tennessee legislatures, State and Federal judges, teachers
and several college presidents. ‘The majority entered the
Presbyterian ministry. At a time when only about one Ameri-
can in six hundred had entered any college as a student, it
is not surprising that these graduates were marked men.

A college degree was a great rarity, particularly on the
unsettled frontier, where most of them made their mark.
Education was at a premium, and the learned man was not
only afforded deference and respect, but also he was looked
upon as the natural leader of his community. Expected to serve
the public weal, he usually did. Sam Houston, one of those
12, was no exception.

Following the battle at Guilford, the Virginia militia,
which had won the praise of their commander, Nathanael
Greene, decided that they had seen enough war for the time
being. Despite the fact that one of Greene’s subordinates
“came and raged” at them, Houston and many of his com-
panions headed for home. Col. McDowell remained behind
with Gen. Greene.

 

 

Samuel Houston’s 1836 letter in which he called for celebration of
Independence Day in “a rational and dignified manner” rather than
by “Bacchanalian entertainments.”

From McCormick Library Special Collections
6

Houston was soon licensed as a Presbyterian minister and
began a career that spanned more than 50 years. As a trus-
tee of Liberty Hall and Washington College, he was a notable
supporter of higher education.

By the middle years of the 1780s, he was involved in
tangled political issues on the frontier. Calling on Graham for
advice, he helped draft a proposed constitution for the
counties of western North Carolina. The idealistic proposal,
incorporating some of Witherspoon’s ideas, was still-born and
the state of Franklin, as it was called, never materialized. ‘The
counties eventually entered the Union as part of ‘Tennessee.

In June, 1836, Houston was in his 80s and still preaching
the gospel. That year the exploits of Gen. Samuel Houston,
the preacher’s kinsman, were on everyone’s lips and the neigh-
borhood was swept by patriotic fervor. ‘The citizens of Lexing-
ton invited the Rev. Houston to take part in the festivities
marking American independence on July 4, 1836.

Houston’s response gives some insight into how a wizened
veteran might commemorate Liberty. In part he wrote that he
“had always thought our country should annually in a ra-
tional and dignified manner” recount “some of the memorable
deeds of the Revolutionary times.” He believed that the
“patriotic exertions of Rockbridge only known now tradi-
tionally by most of our citizens’? should be “brought into
view.”

In the year of our National Bicentennial, which is also
Liberty Hall’s, Washington and Lee has endeavored to carry
out Houston’s wishes through a variety of scholarly programs,
aimed as much at educating the present generation of under-
graduates as they are at bringing “into view” the deeds of the
past.

Certainly one of the most exciting programs is the archeolo-
gical dig at the Liberty Hall ruins. Directed by Dr. John M.
McDaniel, assistant professor of anthropology, the project
has brought to light a rich collection of artifacts which form
a picture of student life on the eighteenth century “hill.”

Mrs. Betty Kondayan, head reference and public service
librarian at McCormick Library, has done an invaluable
service bringing together and analyzing the core of books in
the Liberty Hall Library. ‘The library has microfilmed trustee,
faculty, and other papers for easier access by student and
faculty researchers and is working to expand its manuscript
holdings. A grant from the Maurice L. Mednick Memorial
Fund supports an investigation of Liberty Hall’s “curriculum.”

A number of students have done extensive research into

the history of Liberty Hall and their work is reflected in this
survey.

For example, Marshall Snyder, a senior from Bryan, ‘Texas
took a close look at the Battle of Guilford Courthouse. Penn
Plummer, a senior from East Liverpool, Ohio, presented a
composite picture of the early trustees, with special emphasis

on their impact on local, regional and national affairs. Wil-
liam Graham’s later life was investigated by Dennis Oakley,
who graduated last June.

Bill Watson, a senior honors student from Richmond,
studied Liberty Hall as a training ground for lawyers, many
of whom made important contributions in the post-revolution-
ary west. Mark Bradley, a senior Robert E. Lee Research
student from Roanoke, is investigating the unsuccessful at-
tempt by the Virginia General Assembly to transform the
Academy into a state institution during the 1790s. ‘The back-
ground of the gift by the Society of the Cincinnati is being!
studied, and students enrolled in military history courses, a
part of W&L’s R.O.T.C. program, are looking into all aspects
of Washington and Lee’s military involvement under the di-
rection of Capt. John R. Miller, assistant professor of military
science.

Charles Watson, a 1975 graduate, undertook a number of
projects ranging from an analysis of the first graduating class
to a study of the school’s impact on religious revivals during
the late eighteenth century. Watson spent last year as Wash-
ington and Lee’s first Liberty Hall Postgraduate Fellow and
presented three papers to various scholarly meetings. David
Moore, a June graduate and current Liberty Hall Fellow, is
undertaking a variety of projects, including a close scrutiny of
Liberty Hall’s Scotch-Irish heritage.

Taken together, it is hoped that these and future projects
will help formulate and preserve an accurate account of Rev.
Houston’s old school. The crucible of the Revolution pro-
duced a remarkable group of Valley leaders, who found in
Liberty an ample nursemaid for “riches, literature and hero-
ism,” and who left a worthy legacy to Washington and Lee in
the heritage of Liberty Hall.

 

The Bicentennial investigation of the history of Liberty Hall rests
on a thorough study of the primary historical source material and
the rich collection of eighteenth-century artifacts uncovered by the
archeologists working in the shadow of the Liberty Hall ruins.
Among the special collections at McCormick Library are a number
of books used by students, including volumes of NATURE DIS-
PLAYED, a popular survey of natural philosophy and Samuel
Clarke’s edition of Homer’s Iliad, published in 1774 and purchas-
ed for the school in Philadelphia on March 15, 1776. Of special im-
portance is Houston’s manuscript copy of Witherspoon’s Lectures
on Moral Philosophy—transcribed between September 4, 1779, and
February, 1780. The archeological program has uncovered personal
belongings of Liberty Hall men ranging from buttons and a
thimble to eating utensils and a spur. Buckles, marbles, beads,
flints, and pipes enrich our knowledge of dress and recreational
habits. Students wrote with slivers of graphite on pieces of slate.
The foundations of outbuildings, a spring house, and building ma-
terials and tools give insight into eighteenth-century craftsmanship.
Projectile points are a poignant reminder of the Indian menace
lurking beyond the mountains.

 

veh

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ig

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Trustees of Washington and Lee University met this fall
in the same historic location their predecessors did 100 years
ago during the nation’s Centennial—Independence Hall in
Philadelphia.

Members of the W&L Alumni Board of Directors were
special guests of the trustees for the half-hour ceremony.

In conjunction with that meeting and other business ses-
sions over a two-day period, including one in Philosophical
Hall, the trustees were hosts to the Robert E. Lee Associates at
the annual black-tie banquet of that group of major bene-
factors. The affair was held in the Great Hall of the Franklin
Institute.

Trustees and alumni directors had gathered a day earlier
for another black-tie dinner—this one in Carpenters’ Hall,
where the First Continental Congress met in September 1774.
(It was not until 1775 that the soon-to-be revolutionaries began
meeting in the State House, now called Independence Hall.)

Arrangements for both the business and social activities—
including the use of Independence, Carpenters’ and Philo-
sophical Halls, privileges rarely granted to private groups, and
then only for occasions of extraordinary importance—were
made by W&L’s two Philadelphia-area trustees, Isadore M.
Scott and Board Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., and by Alum-
ni Director and past Lee Associates Chairman Edwin J. Foltz.

The Independence Hall ceremony commemorated a WkL
meeting held there Oct. 21, 1876, “to organize a movement for
the better endowment” of the University. It was because of
that specific historic precedent that Independence Hall was

8

 

Washington and Lee

keeps a date

with Philadelphia

made available this year.

In his remarks during the ceremony, Nuckols observed:
“Our purpose has not changed during the intervening hundred
years.” But, he added, this year’s ceremony had an additional
purpose—“‘to reaffirm once again those enduring principles
upon which this University is based, and from which I think
we can truthfully say we have not wavered.”

The meeting was opened with a moving prayer by Scott,
who noted the aptness of the historic setting for a gathering of
“a University which is so much a part of America—and so much
a part of all of us.”

In his welcome, Nuckols quoted a comment made at the
outset of the 1876 meeting. Today, just as then, he said, Wash-
ington and Lee’s representatives had assembled in Indepen-
dence Hall out of a common devotion to “ ‘an institution of
learning which was endowed by George Washington and the
soldiers of the Revolution. That this object is a most worthy
one, who will dispute? That the time chosen for its accom-
plishment is most auspicious, who can deny? And it is gratify-
ing to know that the many eminent men, in all parts of the
United States, who have been asked to participate—however
widely they may differ on other subjects—on this feel an entire
unanimity of opinion....’”

Foltz then spoke on the response to that 1876 call for a
“better endowment,” and suggested that the men and
women who supported the University magnificently 100 years
ago “would be pleased with Washington and Lee today.” And
when W&L meets again in Independence Hall 100 years in the

 

 

Above: Board Rector E. Marshall Nuckols
Jr. welcomes W&L guests during the com-
memorative meeting in the Long Gallery of
Independence Hall, just above the room in
which the Declaration of Independence was
signed and the Constitution drafted. The
1876 meeting took place in the Governor's
Select Chamber (in the room through the
doorway in the left of the photo); the 1976
commemorative meeting was held in the
larger gallery to accommodate the larger

group.

Left: Trustee Isadore M. Scott (seated) re-
creates 1876 endorsement of a program to
increase Washington and Lee’s endowment.
With him are the other two Philadelphia
hosts, Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. (left)
and Alumni Director Edwin J. Foltz.

 

future, Foltz said, there is likely to be even more reason than
there is now to recall the words of the nineteenth-century news-
paper editor who wrote: “We would pause to meditate on these
things [W&L’s “splendid record” and “mightly influences’’],
and to turn our thoughts in the direction of profound thank-
fulness to God for what has been accomplished through Wash-
ington and Lee University.”

President Robert E. R. Huntley also spoke briefly, noting
that in one sense the 1876 and 1976 meetings were simply
reaffirmations of a commitment to fierce educational and
political independence that had been set forth initially in 1776
and reiterated in 1796. In 1776, he said, Liberty Hall Academy,
as W&L’s predecessor institution had just renamed itself, under-
took its first major fund-raising drive, seeking support from
those “whose hearts are set for the promotion of learning and

10

 

 

Above: W&L trustees assembled in the Gov-
ernor’s Select Chamber in Independence
Hall. From left: James W. Whitehead, board
secretary; S L Kopald; John W. Warner;
Frank C. Brooks; Dr. John Newton Thomas,
rector emeritus; J. Stewart Buxton; John F.
Hendon, trustee emeritus; J. Alvin Philpott;
T. Hal Clarke; Joseph L. Lanier; Sydney
Lewis; Jack W. Warner; Joseph T. Lykes Jr.;
Thomas D. Anderson; Thomas C. Frost; EF.
Waller Dudley; E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., rec-
tor; Calvert Thomas; Dr. Edgar F. Shannon
Jr.; Isadore M. Scott; Robert E. R. Huntley,
president; John L. Crist Jr.; John M. Stem-
mons; H. Gordon Leggett Jr.

Left: Black-tie banquet in Carpenters’ Hall
for trustees and alumni directors and their
Lexington guests was preceded by a cocktail
hour. The hall was the site of the first meet-
ing of the Continental Congress in 1774.

the good of their country.”’ That effort drew to the little school
in the mountains the endorsements of five of Virginia’s seven
signers of the Declaration of Independence, including Thomas
Jefferson. Among the 104 others who pledged their financial
and philosophical support were most of the other Virginia
statesmen who were destined to play crucial roles in the na-
tion’s struggle for freedom and in giving direction to the re-
public once that freedom had been secured. The success of that
1776 drive for support gave Liberty Hall its first measure of
permanence—a base of financial independence on which the
institution’s entire subsequent history has been built.

The 1797 episode, President Huntley remarked, represent-
ed a struggle for independence of another kind. After George
Washington’s landmark gift to Liberty Hall in 1796, the Vir-
ginia General Assembly apparently decided the school ought to

 

 

Left: The “Energy” exhibit section of the
Franklin Institute provided a unique setting
for cocktails preceding dinner in the Great
Hall.

Below left: Alumni Director Charles C. Stieff
II displays the key to Independence Hall
that was the model from which his Balti-
more-based silver company fashioned small
pewter replicas and fitted them with chains.
The necklaces were presented to the women
guests.

Below center: Dr. James G. Leyburn delivers
the principal after-dinner address in the
Great Hall of the Franklin Institute.

Below right: Trustee Joseph L. Lanier of
West Point, Ga., addresses the dinner guests
after the announcement that he is retiring
as a regular member of the board and as-
suming emeritus status. Dr. John Newton
Thomas, rector emeritus, lauded Lanier’s
service to the University and presented him
a silver tray bearing the engraved signatures
of all the trustees.

 

become a state college—and enacted a new charter to supercede
the old one, without even informing the trustees. The Liberty
Hall board members viewed that act as a “tyrannical imposi-
tion” and “a singular instance of infringement on the rights
of an incorporated body,” and early in 1797 they adopted a
ringing resolution not merely objecting to the attempted poll-
tical takeover, but flatly declaring that they “will not submit
to the act” and specifying six reasons why. They argued their
case in Richmond, and in the end they prevailed. The offend-
ing new charter was repealed, and Liberty Hall endured.

A handsome set of reproductions of the 1776 fund-raising
document and the 1797 resolution rejecting the attempted
seizure of control by the General Assembly—accompanied by an
attractively illustrated booklet containing an essay by Dr. I.
Taylor Sanders II, University historian, describing the two

 

 

“declarations of educational independence” in detail—was dis-
tributed to those who attended the Independence Hall cere-
mony and the Franklin Institute banquet, and the materials
have also been mailed to Lee Associates who were unable to

attend.

At the Franklin Institute banquet for the Lee Associates—
to which Philadelphia-area alumni were also invited—Dr. James
Graham Leyburn, dean emeritus and professor of sociology and
anthropology at W&L for a quarter-century until his retirement
in 1973, was the principal speaker. His topic was Washington
and Lee’s heritage and its future. As seems to happen when-
ever Dr. Leyburn returns from his retirement farm in Martins-
burg, W. Va., to address a W&L function, his observations and
challenges were greeted with huge warmth and a by-now-tra-
ditional standing ovation.

I]

 

Wes L’s Bicentennial:
A fanciful look back

 

PITTSBURGH PRESS

The nation’s. Bicentennial this year has made Washington
and Lee mindful of its own Bicentennial, back in 1949. Like
the current Bicentennial, that one had its share of big events,
testimonial speakers and commemorative publications. One
such booklet—organized and compiled entirely by students—
included tributes from several contemporary journalists and
cartoonists. Historians Virginius Dabney and Douglas Southall
Freeman, and even Eleanor Roosevelt, contributed laudatory
remarks to the booklet 200 Years Young. And such diverse
cartoon personalities as Donald Duck, Little Orphan Annie,
and Alley Oop trooped through its pages—all in original draw-
ings penned especially for W&L’s Bicentennial. The booklet
was printed on campus by the Journalism Laboratory Press
and was distributed as an alumni publication.

The booklet was organized and edited by Art Wood, a
junior during W&L’s Bicentennial. (His son, James Arthur III,
incidentally, was a senior at W&L during the nation’s birth-
day year.) Wood was well suited for such a task, having been
interested in cartoons and having collected original drawings
for several years.

Before enrolling at the University, Wood served in the
Navy during World War II. The experience provided him an
opportunity to work with noted cartoonists involved in serv-
ice publications. He recalled those times in a recent profile
in a cartoonists’ magazine: “I did everything from VD posters
to brochures for soldiers overseas, did a Sunday page, ‘All
Thumbs,’ about a little Navy character—really a steal on ‘Sad
Sack’—and wrote gags for cartoonists.” By the time he arrived
at W&L, Wood knew most of the cartoonists in the comic-page
line and a number of the political cartoonists as well.

The idea of a student Bicentennial publication developed
one evening when he was having dinner with the Francis
P. Gaines family, Wood recalls. “Dr. Gaines and others on the
faculty were anxious to have active student participation.
Since Gen. Lee had originated the idea of a school of jour-
nalism at the college, my thoughts turned to this area. Why

12

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
      
 

" .. AMONGST THE MOTIVES To SUCH AN
INSTITUTION, THE ASSIMILATION OF THE
PRINCIPLES, OPINIONS AND MANNERS OF
OUR COUNTRYMEN BY THE COMMON ED-
UCATION OF A PORTION OF OUR YOUTH
FROM EVERY QUARTER WELL DESERVES
ATTENTION... ”
Cee

  

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
     

‘ .I CONSIDER THE PROPER
EDUCATION OF YOUTH ONE OF THE
MOST IMPORTANT OBJECTS NOW
TO BE ATTAINED, AND ONE FROM
WHICH THE GREATEST BENEFITS
MAY BE EXPECTED...”

   
  
 

 

    

rice

FoR WASHINGTON and LEE UNIVERSITY
—Truly a place of light, of liberty and learning for

—— -_ ey
200 years zegards

 

TON AND LEE UNIVERSITY |:
— 1TH = 1949

 

 

}
Age =——=_—.
Saree

4

FRE0 O. VEIT Ww

 

 

WHEN A UNIVERSITY
LASTS TWO HUNDRED YEARS
AND IS GOING STRONGER.

NOW THAN EVER, THERE
MUST BE A GOOD REASON / SURE=: TWO
REASONS, “DADDY”.
GEORGE WASHINGTON AND
ROBERT E, LEE! AS LONG
AS A UNIVERSITY TEACHES
WHAT THEY LIVED, [T’LL
LAST A THOUSAND YEARS,
| BETCHA!<~ EH, SANDY?

 

 

 

 
  
     
     
  
 
  

   

  

JUST THINK- #8

WASHINGTON AND LEE WHY, THAT
WAS FOUNDED MUST'VE BEEN
TWO HUNDRED WHEN DADDY

   

YEARS AGO/

 
 
 

  
  
  
      

— =

 

: a

ae OP
= Ree

8

WASHINGTON AND LEE

   

My, -— UNIVERSITY
: te
a OleouNDeD 1749, AS AUGUSTA ACADEMY ‘ 2

MR GREENVILLE; REESTABLISHED AT Fy
Pm TLV ALE ZUTEIS IE ITETE EAS
LMU THE GAUL BAR TH LITER

  

 
  
   
 
  
  

     
 
  
  
 
 

EIA (2TH, AT EHARLITAGH B

   

CU as: GieGlG. WASHING TA ™~ |
— BA TOME (INET LE ) CAT
HARTH MEE At meus. 6)
(GET (ROA 1 FRI THE Ui

   

    
    

   

  

0 TEAID AT TUPRALY AMMITKIE IM

V :
TIA WIRFUCI/AL TTI.
JO ye uF TTI. OS
Jz | 00 E )
\\%,, Ss W
A Ney Ne
, y N ,
ys! uf Vy NG \ We we
’ gs 4 SNS TIT Q =
A

( CY

 
  
     

Ses

 

 

 

 

A
CHIC YOUNC>.

Copr. 1948, King Features Syndicate, Inc., World rights reserved.

 

 

 

 

WE SALUTE you, Whe L. IN Your.
GREAT YEAR AHEAD?
200 YEARS?® WHATA

BIRTHDAY?
[a ~

NC =

  
      
   
 

)
tr)

 

\

     
 
 

   

  
  

AND THis
: Ww"! 8 ABouT
om f Lo) Te ONLY
IKMEY ALWAYS Aly as. D7) WAY |
SAID 'D WIND A) 2d EVER GET
UP IN A INTO
CoLLede!

—_

not a special Bicentennial book published by the students
themselves? A group of students working on school publica-
tions—Bob McNeil, Fran Russell, Ozzie Osborne, Marshall
Ellis and I—got together and worked out the details. Since |
knew the cartoonists I contacted them for special drawings. We
also invited a number of leading editors and columnists to
contribute. I had spent one afternoon with Mrs. Roosevelt at
Sweet Briar, and she said she would do a short piece for the
publication—and so like ‘Topsy, it grew.”

Wood’s interest in cartoons continued to grow as well.
After graduation from the University in 1950, he worked at
the Richmond News Leader as political cartoonist. Later he
served as chief editorial cartoonist for the Pittsburgh Press.
Now he is working for the U.S. Independent Telephone As-
sociation as editor of a Washington, D.C., newsletter and its
cartoonist. He is also immediate past president of the As-
sociation of American Editorial Cartoonists.

The good humor, energy and enthusiasm which developed
the student Bicentennial publication in 1949 have helped
him to amass a comprehensive collection of graphics for
posterity. Wood’s collection of drawings has grown until it
encompasses a wide assortment of illustrations, comics, poli-
tical and gag cartoons, animation and caricatures. Not only
does it include the work of twentieth-century artists, but it
extends back to Hogarth’s work in eighteenth-century Europe.
The scope and range, as well as the success, of the collection
are due to Wood’s desire to develop a legacy for posterity.
He became interested in preserving cartoons before museums
and art galleries took an interest in them. And since the jour-
nalist/collector never intended to sell them and is genuinely
interested in each artist’s talent and work, he has received
most of his drawings from the artists themselves over a period
of years. “By this time most people in the business know of my
collection, its scope and purpose,” he says. ‘““They also know
that I’m not a dealer in cartoons. I’ve kept every drawing
and I have them all arranged chronologically by artist.”

13

Honor? We
in it.

Sandy Stradiman, vice president of
the Student Body, addressed these re-
marks to freshmen during orientation at
Natural Bridge. He prepared the state-
ment in collaboration with Mike Luttig,

°76, last year’s president of Omicron Del-
ta Kappa.

More than 150 men are now before
the Honor Committee at West Point,
long one of the nation’s most cherished
institutions. Their offense?—cheating;
their penalty?—yet to be decided. Some-
thing doesn’t quite mesh here does it?
Why is the penalty yet to be decided at
an institution that has an honor system
as old as the university itself and for vio-
lation of which there exists but one
penalty? The answer, I’m afraid, is all too
simple. Today in West Point, New York,
there are too many cadets who no longer
believe that honor is worth the price that
often has to be paid. ‘There are too many
cadets who are unwilling themselves to
live by the very oath that they willfully
took when they entered. There are too
many cadets who are content to deceive
themselves, deceive themselves into be-
lieving (or so they say) that if one has to
choose between the two, it is often far
more desirable to be an achiever than
a man of honor. And, finally, there are far
too many cadets who claim that honor is
outdated, that “the code has failed to
adapt to the Twentieth Century in which
we now are all participating.”

14

 

Well, Washington and Lee is, at
least with regard to the long-standing
respect for honesty, an institution quite
similar to West Point. More specifically,
we have a rigid honor code for which
there is but one penalty. Keep in mind, if
but for a moment, that our 200-year-old
institution has stood almost entirely on
this principle that we call “personal
honor.”’ And at the very least we owe our
continued success to this recurring theme
of “personal honor.”

So what does all this have to do with
freshman orientation 1976? I’ll tell you.

We're all here to orient you to a
university, but most of us believe that to
do that we must tell you about our con-
viction, our personal feeling, our value
which we hold so closely—honor—and it’s
not outdated in Lexington, Virginia. But
the fact is that it could be at some point
in the near future if we continue a trend
which, over the past year, I sense has
been beginning, but as yet only begin-
ning. And there is a distinct parallel be-
tween this trend that I speak of and the
trend which, as I understand it, had be-
gun at West Point as early as two years
ago. That disastrous trend is characteriz-
ed by a thinking which says something to
the effect that: “Oh, this is so small it
couldn’t have anything to do with honor.”
Well, the analogy is obvious. I trust that
you know by now that we’re here at Na-
tural Bridge to learn about the Honor
Code; but, let me tell you, you’re miss-
ing the point entirely if you think that to
do so is merely to become familiar with a
set of rules. Quite the contrary. To learn
about the Honor Code at Washington
and Lee is to be let in on a philosophy

 

 

Sandy Stradtman (r) greets friend during
freshman registration.

that runs much deeper than any set of
rules. It is to be let in on something that
goes far beyond tradition. Indeed, it is
to learn about a belief that presently
binds and will continue to bind together
Wé&L men both on and off this campus
for years to come; if, that is, you con-
front this year with the belief that honor,
above all else, must characterize those of
us here at W&L.

You see, we place a lot of emphasis
on trust here. We don’t think it’s too
much to ask for a man to do his own
work, represent himself truthfully, and
claim only that which is his. And believe
me you're going to have contact with
guys here for whom these three simple
requests mean everything; guys who are
appalled by even the thought that they
might not be able to believe what their
fellow classmates say, guys whose stomachs
turn at the thought of their friend cheat-
ing to get ahead of them, guys who can
easily muster up almost a hatred for some-
one who steals from another. These kinds
of feelings, though, are not as extreme

 

as they might seem at first hearing. Be-
cause, remember, their feelings are not
based on something as inherently “cold”
as a set of written rules—no, not quite.
Rules rarely engender in a man that
kind of intense emotion. But heartfelt be-
liefs do, and it is that heartfelt belief,
that conviction that to be honorable is
to live as a man ought, that forms the
impenetrable base of the Honor System at
Washington and Lee. You see, we don’t
think it’s “in” or “neat” to try to get away
with everything you can. We do, though,
think it’s kind of “neat,” if you will, to
be a man of integrity. And let’s not fool
ourselves, in this day and time, to be a
man of unquestioned integrity is to be a
little bit different from the rest. I, for
one, like that, though—and what’s more—
I think that in but a short period of time
you will, too.

Now, there are several different ways
that you can think about this concept of
honor when you leave here tomorrow.
One of the most prevalent of these dif-
ferent ways, in past years at least, is to
think something like the following:
“Well, I’m here and probably going to
be here for four years. And since every-
one seems to be big on this honor bit,
I’ll go along so as not to rock the boat.
Really, being honest, though, is not that
big a deal to me, but it seems to be to a
lot of others, so who cares, you know; I'll
play their game.” Well, all I can say is
that I think it’s sad when a guy buys into
this type of thinking. My gosh, be honest
for your own self, not because you think
maybe it’s the thing to do. Let personal
honor become a source of pride. Look at
it in terms of something that no one can
ever take away from you. Recognize it,
for Pete’s sake, as the quickly disappear-

 

ing, but most sought-after quality that it,
in fact, is. And last, don’t fall into that
misled group who so arrogantly contend
that it’s “‘studly” to le and cheat just a
little. It’s not.

Also, let me tell you of some termi-
nology about honor that has been float-
ing around this campus for the past few
years. And it is representative of the kind
of talk that in little or no time can un-

dermine the system to the point that if ©

no longer exists. I can remember all too
well what one student said just last year:
“Oh, but honor is such a nebulous con-
cept.” Is it? Really? I hardly think so. ‘To
the contrary, my background tells me that
honor is very simple, and what’s more
honor is the paradigm of concreteness.
By this I mean that you don’t ever have
to wait for someone to tell you whether
what you did was honorable or dishonor-
able. Gome on now. We know when we
intentionally try to mislead or deceive
someone, we know whether we received
help that we shouldn’t have on a paper
or test, and we certainly know whether
what we have in our possession is ours or
not. And these are the kinds of things
that the Honor System seeks to punish—
intentional, dishonorable acts—and we
know every time whether what we’re
doing is on the up-and-up. So why pre-
tend that we don’t?

‘The Honor System is ours. It is not
structured to work against us. It is not
an ever-present guard over our every ac-
tion. And it’s not devised to put fear
into the honest man. What is true is that
the Honor System exists to insure that we
have the kind of community that years
and years of experience have told us is
the most desirable, that community which
reinforces the attitudes which are slipping
away so rapidly elsewhere today. Let me
Just pass on a word of caution which,
similarly, someone passed on to me; this
is, that although the mechanics of the sys-
tem are important to learn, it is the prin-
ciple, the rationale, that we want you to

 

come to grips with in the next few days.
And let me suggest that we cannot main-
tain the honorable community that we
now have unless you all decide right now
to do your part during the coming year.

Undoubtedly, from time to time, you
will hear comments like “stealing a sign
or a Bic pen is not that big a deal,” or
“getting one answer off one guy’s paper
is certainly not going to hurt anything,”
or “aw, he won't care if I take just this
one beer.” Well, the fact is that here at
W&L we do care, and we care just as
much about these types of things as we
do about full-fledged copying, outright
stealing, and blatant lying—because the
overwhelming majority of people here on
this campus is smart enough to under-
stand that honor is not measured by de-
gree, such is only a sad rationalization
for someone who lacks the conviction that
it takes to be a man of honor. Either we
try to be honest or we don’t. I just can’t
see that there is any room for a guy who
is honest most of the time in a univer-
sity which sends representatives all over
the country telling people that we have
the most effective honor system of any
college we know.

We do have one of the best univer-
sities in this country. And you can bet
that we can attribute a lot of that suc-
cess to Just what we’re here to talk about
during these two days—honor. We be-
lieve in it. And I’m going to graduate in
1977 and you in 1980 from a school that
refuses to accept the tenet that “honor is
outdated in this Twentieth Century.”
Thank you.

15

Rhodes Scholar
reflects
on Oxford

 

Ralph H. Smith at Oxford.

Ralph Harrison Smith II, a native of
Birmingham, Ala., is a 1973 summa cum
laude graduate of Washington and Lee.
He won a Rhodes Scholarship when he
was a senior, and spent the next three
years in Oxford, reading politics, phi-
losophy and economics, graduating from
Corpus Christi College last summer with
honors. He is married to the former
Betsey Oakley, a Sweet Briar graduate,
and they now live in New Haven, where
Ralph is a first-year student at Yale Law
School. Shortly after returning to the
United States, he wrote this account for
the WeL alumni magazine of his impres-
sions of Oxford in general and his view
of the distinctive British approach to
education, reflected in his experiences at
Oxford, as it compares with the Ameri-
can approach, perhaps typified by Wash-
ington and Lee.

History, charm, and grace abound in
the United Kingdom, but nowhere is
the combination manifest more delight-
fully than in the medieval university town
of Oxford, 60 miles up the Thames
River from London, at the periphery of

16

England’s Cotswold hills. The attractions
of Oxford are many and varied; it is a
cultural center and a great architectural
treasury—but it is these things and many
more primarily because it is the home of
one of Europe’s oldest and most highly
respected universities.

No one knows exactly when the uni-
versity of Oxford began. It certainly had
no founder, and no real date of found-
ing. It appears to have developed prin-
cipally as a result of the general intellec-
tual awakening that spread across Europe
in the twelfth and thirteenth centuries.
“Oxenforde” had been an informal center
of learning for many centuries, but it in-
creased in stature in 1167 when, as a re-
sult of a dispute over the killing of Tho-
mas a Beckett, Henry II of England re-
called the English scholars then studying
at the University of Paris. Many of these
scholars eventually settled in Oxford, and
it is from this date that the university
began its ascendancy.

Visitors to Oxford often ask to be di-
rected to the university, or to the cam-
pus, ignorant of the fact perhaps that
they stand in the middle of it as they
inquire for directions. This confusion
stems at least in part from the peculiar
constitution of the university, which
resembles more closely a federation of
semi-autonomous units than the univer-
sities we know in the United States. Ox-
ford, Cambridge, and to some extent
Trinity College, Dublin, share the dis-
tinction of being the three universities in
Europe which have preserved the medie-
val collegiate system. In Oxford, more
than 30 independent colleges and halls
grew up in response to the need of schol-
ars to pursue their studies in peace and
quiet, protected from the wrath of irate
townsmen. ‘Town-and-gown battles have
been bloody in the history of the univer-
sity, and it was at least partially the need
for defense and discipline which prompt-
ed the construction of the fortresses of
academic Oxford. Even today these for-
tresses are more than curiosities of an-
other age, for the colleges not only pro-

Photos by Elizabeth Duke Wilkerson,
wife of William R. Wilkerson, ’69.
She is editor of the University of
Virginia Record.

vide the city with some of its most mag-
nificent architecture, but also remain
the heartbeat of the modern university,
and contribute to the unique variety and
excitement of its intellectual life.

Thus the structure of Oxford Univer-
sity, the styles of its architecture, and
even the winding chaos of the city streets
reflect the variety and individuality which
dominate academic life. Each college with
its Own traditions and each street with
its unique history combine to form a very
rich experience for the student or visitor
to Oxford. And while there are readily
apparent contrasts between American and
English academia, the variety which char-
acterizes life in both undermines most
casual comparisons and generalized ob-
servations. Many of the strengths of
Washington and Lee stem from a similar
willingness to allow for individual ex-
pression within a framework of mutual
trust and respect. Whether the student is
taught in tutorials or in classroom lec-
tures is not as important to the ultimate
success of the academic process as how
the spirit of inquiry is nurtured and sus-
tained. It is very fortunate for all of us
that many of the great universities of the
world share in the ideal of liberal educa-
tion, an ideal which in its best applica-
tion allows growth, change, and develop-
ment, as well as consistent integrity of

purpose.

 

He came
to learn...
and teach

The annual fall alumni conference al-
ways brings many distinguished gradu-
ates back to the Washington and Lee
campus. Among them this time was Field-
er Cook, ’47, a successful theater, motion
picture and television director. He ar-
rived on the rain-soaked campus four days
early with several of his films, and made
them available to film classes in the jour-
nalism department. After showing the
films Big Hand for a Little Lady, (a full-
length motion picture), The Hands of
Cormac Joyce, and Judge Horton and the
Scotisboro Boys (both filmed for the
Hallmark Hall of Fame series), he answer-
ed questions and discussed topics ranging
from the techniques of filming and _act-
ting, the mechanics of our present “tran-
sistorized” society, and the necessity of
“creating out of your heart.”

The students were more than enter-
tained: they learned a good deal about
professional and personal ethics as well.
As Cook told them, “If you can earn a
living in keeping with your heart, you’re
in a good place.’ His work shows that he
has followed his own advice. He has con-
sistently been linked with quality pro-
ductions, having directed and produced
for the Hallmark Hall of Fame television
series, Philco and Goodyear Playhouses,
and Playhouse 90. He has also directed
the pilots for many popular television
series, among them ‘Ben Casey,” “Mr.
Roberts,” “Going My Way,” and most re-
cently, “The Waltons,” and ‘Beacon
Hill.” He has directed a Broadway pro-
duction, A Cook for Mr. General, and
several full-length movies, among them
Patterns, Home is the Hero, and Eagle
in the Cage.

In all of his. productions, he says, he
trys to portray the “human condition.”
The resulting warmth and sincerity have
been recognized and appreciated through-
out the nation, and he has been reward-
ed for his achievements with several
Emmys, two Director Guild plaques, and
many other awards and nominations. His
alma mater has recognized his talent as
well—in 1973, he was awarded an honor-

 

Fielder Cook (r) with his old teacher and friend Tom Riegel.

ary Doctor of Fine Arts degree. And in
the late ’50s, the Fielder Cook Award for
creative film-making was established in
the journalism department by O. W.
(Tom) Riegel, former head of the depart-
ment and Cook’s long-time friend. It was
partially as a tribute to Riegel that his
former student made this journey to meet
and talk with film students—one of many
similar trips. Cook credits Riegel with
helping him discover his aspiration of di-
recting. “We all have dreams inside us;
they just have to work themselves out.”
But he admits he derives a great deal
from sharing himself with students. “I get
more out of it than I give. The students
here are great.”

By week’s end, as those students’
thoughts started to turn to road trips
and parties ahead, the alumni conference

began. Cook turned his attention ear-
nestly to learning more about “his” school.
The first night of the conference, at the
opening banquet, he discovered two of his
Delt fraternity brothers, Calhoun Bond,
‘43, and Lynch Christian Jr., ’44, both of
whom he hadn’t seen “for more than 27
years!” After the banquet, they went
down to the Cockpit, downstairs in
the Student Center, drank a couple pitch-
ers of beer and caught up on stories of
family and children, recalled trips and
adventures and relived some college me-
mories—sharing a bit of the warmth and
affection that Cook is so partial to. So
despite the constant, cold rain, the mud,
the slick leaf-covered sidewalks, the week
Fielder Cook spent at Washington and
Lee turned out to be a very warm bright
one indeed for him and the University.

17

by Bill Schnier

Sports Information Director

Improved football team struggles

to its best record in five years

W&L’s football Generals went into
their final game of the season, as this
issue went to press, with a 4-5 record—
their best record in five years. ‘The team
put together back-to-back wins this year
for the first time since 1973, and a win
against Georgetown in the season’s last
game, would give the team a .500 season
for the first time since 1967.

Along with seven other colleges in
Virginia, W&L is a member of the newly
formed Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence. In addition to Washington and
Lee, Bridgewater, Roanoke, Emory and
Henry, Hampden-Sydney, Eastern Men-
nonite, Randolph-Macon and_ Lynch-
burg sponsor intercollegiate football. ‘The
Generals finished this year’s inaugural
conference season with a 2-2 mark, de-
feating Randolph-Macon 7-3 and Bridge-
water 16-7, while losing to nationally
ranked Hampden-Sydney 15-7 and to
Emory and Henry 24-17.

Junior quarterback Ted Hissey had
an excellent season and was the ODAC’s
leading passer. Junior Raynard Scott and
freshman Stewart Atkinson gave Wk&L a
sold running attack, while senior co-cap-
tain Tony Perry and sophomore flanker
Richard Wiles led the team’s receiving
corps.

Linebacker Carl Folcik and Jeff Slat-
coff, the Generals’ other co-captain, have
been running one-two in the team’s tack-
ling race. Sophomore cornerback Jack
Norberg is leading the conference in that
category, with six to date.

Rolf Piranian, ’74, an outstanding
soccer player himself, returned to his
alma mater this fall and coached the
soccer team to a season record of 3-10.
The Generals ended the year in style,
winning their final game 1-0 over con-
ference foe Roanoke. W&L completed its
ODAC soccer season at 1-3.

Sophomore forward Bill Stone was
the Generals’ most consistent striker all
season, leading the team in scoring with
six goals and one assist for 13 points.
Junior goalkeeper Mark Bennett had
what Coach Piranian termed “a sensa-

18

 

Junior halfback Raynard Scott picks up yards against Emory and Henry.

 

Senior co-captain Mike Burns in action
for cross-country team.

tional year.” Bennett set a school record
for most saves in one game, stopping 28
Navy shots, and finished the season with
192 saves, a record. With one season re-
maining, he is already W&L’s all-time ca-
reer leader in saves—with 338. Bennett
and Mark Derbyshire will be co-captains
of the 1977 soccer squad.

Coach Richard Miller’s cross-country
Generals completed their dual-meet sea-
son with a 9-5 record, and finished fourth
in the ODAC championships at W&L.
Junior Allen Weeks was the team’s most
consistent performer throughout the year,
while freshman Richard Bird gave the
harriers good promise for the future.

W&L’s abbreviated fall tennis slate
was basically a training exercise for the
difficult spring 1977 schedule. Coach Den-
nis Bussard’s netmen played two matches,
won both, and have hopes for national
ranking this spring.

W&L now sponsors four winter sports
—varsity and junior varsity basketball,
swimming, wrestling, and indoor track
and field. The swim team, under the di-
rection of Bill Stearns and assistant coach
Col. Louis McFadden, opened the winter —

=—_"

season with an exhibition win over the
Briarwood A.A.U. Club.

Four All-American swimmers have re-
turned this season: Keith Romich, Chip
Hoke, and co-captains John Hudson and
Tad Van Leer. Hudson won the NCAA
Division II national championship in
the 500-yard and 1650-yard freestyle. ‘Ihe
swimmers finished eighth in the national
championships last season, and hope to
improve on that record next March. ‘The
team’s 10 dual meets include some of the
most challenging opponents in the east,
including five Division I and four Divi-
sion II teams.

Coach Verne Canfield’s basketbail
Generals are coming off a 19-7 season,
with visions of an NCAA tournament
berth dancing in their heads. The ODAC
champion this year will qualify automa-
tically for a berth in the NCAA Division
III South Atlantic Regional. The Gen-
erals open their 1976-77 schedule with an
exhibition game.against the Peruvian na-
tional team, and move into a 26-game
regular season schedule highlighted by
three tournaments in W&L’s Doremus
Gymnasium. The W&L Tip-Off Tourney
is scheduled for Nov. 26-27; the W&L In-
vitational Jan. 7-8; and the ODAC Tour-
ney Feb. 25-26. Ten lettermen returned
to lead the Generals, including senior
co-captains Bob Flint and Kim Sims.

The junior varsity basketball Gen-
erals, under Coach Dennis Bussard, will
play a six-game schedule this season.

Coach Gary Franke’s wrestling team is
hoping for its third straight winning
year. The wrestlers were pre-season favor-
ite to take their first ODAC title. Senior
Jim Crytzer, team captain, and sopho-
more Kevin McFadden are expected to
lead the Generals this season. The grap-
plers are hosting both the W&L Invita-
tional in December and the conference
championships in February.

Looking ahead to the spring, Coach
Jack Emmer’s lacrosse Generals—ranked
seventh nationally in Division I a year
ago—open their season with a home game
March 5 against Duke University.

    
   

Coach George Barclay (center).

Lea Booth presides with gusto at Gator Bowl reunion banquet to the amusement of

25th Gator Bowl reunion

Members of W&L’s 1951 Gator Bowl
football team and their friends returned
to campus for their 25th reunion on
Sept. 17. Players, coaches, sports writers,
reunion committee members, and their
wives gathered early for the day’s activi-
ties, which included a spirited luncheon
at the Lee House, followed by their 1975
successors’ home game against Emory &
Henry. The group sat in the President's
box and were recognized at half-time.
That evening, during a banquet in Evans
Dining Hall, the former Southern Con-
ference champions reminisced with two of
their coaches, George Barclay and Her-
bert Miller. Lea Booth, W&L sports in-
formation director at the time of the
Bowl game, presided. Quarterback Gil
Bocetti, who scored the only touchdown
at the Bowl game for the Generals, was
present, as were the team co-captains,
Donald M. Fergusson and Joseph B. Mc-
Cutcheon. Others who returned for the
reunion included Wesley E. Abrams, John

I. Bowman, Paul Giordani, Reno Harp,
H. Gordon Leggett, William H. Lyon,
John D. Maguire, Wallace R. Oref,
Charles R. Smith, James P. Stark, B. G.
Arnold, Donald R. Leister, Xen N. Si-
deris, Roland E. Thompson, David L.
Waters, and Raymond F. Bee.

Jack Carper and Andrew H. Mc-
Cutcheon, sports information writers who
covered the exciting games of the 1950
football season and the 1951 New Year's
Day Bowl game, also took part.

William D. McHenry, current athletic
director, and John A. Wolf, alumni repre-
sentative on the W&L _ Intercollegiate
Athletics Committee—both members of
the Gator Bowl Reunion Committee—
also attended.

Although the Generals lost the Bowl
game to the University of Wyoming 20-7,
the cheerful reunion group proved by
their 25-year old recollections that it’s
not important whether you win or lose,
but how you remember the game.

19

 

Name
your
candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the
By-Laws of Washington and Lee Alum-
ni, Inc., the names and addresses of the
Nominating Committee for 1976-77 are
listed here:

E. Michael Masinter, 758A, ’61L
Committee Chairman

Hansell, Post, Brandon & Dorsey
3300 First National Bank ‘Tower
Atlanta, Ga. 30303

W. Upton Beall, ’51

Robinwood Bldg. & Development Co.
419 ‘Troup Road

Tyler, ‘Texas 75701

Edgar M. Boyd, ’42
Baker, Watts and Co.
100 Light Street
Baltimore, Md. 21203

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill three seats

on the Alumni Board of Directors and
one vacancy on the University Com-
mittee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of
the Alumni Association may submit
names of alumni to the Nominating
Committee for nomination for the of-
fices to be filled. Alumni may send
names directly to any member of the
committee or to the committee through
the office of the Executive Secretary
of the Alumni Association at the Uni-
versity.

The committee will close its report
on March 15, 1977, and present its
nominations to the annual meeting of
the Alumni Association on May 7,

1977.

 

 

 

Winter athletic schedule

BASKETBALL

Jan.

V.M.I1., ‘Towson

HOME

Nov. 21 Peru National Team HOME Jan. 29 William & Mary Williamsburg, Va.
Nov. 26-27 W&L Tip-Off ‘Tournament HOME Feb. 5 Morris Harvey College | Charleston, W. Va.
(Hampden-Sydney, W. Maryland, Feb. 11 Virginia Commonwealth HOME
York College, W&L) Feb. 19 Old Dominion HOME
Dec. 2 Lynchburg College HOME Feb. 24-26 State Meet Richmond, Va.
Dec. 4 Emory & Henry Emory, Va. Mar. 17-19 N.C.A.A. Nationals Division II
Dec. 8 Hampden-Sydney HOME Oberlin, Ohio
Dec. 10 St. Mary’s College HOME INDOOR TRACK
Dec. 20 Pratt Institute New York, N.Y. .
Feb. 5 V.M.I. Relays Lexington, Va.
Dec. 21 C. W. Post College Brookville, N.Y. Feb. 9 Lynchb Lynchb V
ir eb. ynchburg ynchburg, Va.
Jan. 7-8 W&L. Invitational a Feb. 12 State Track Meet Lexington, Va.
(Haverford, UNC-Greensboro, Feb. 19 Lynchb Rel Lynchb V
; ynchburg Relays ynchburg, Va.
SAAR ie Feb. 26 ODAC Lynchburg, Va
Jan. 12 Lynchburg College Lynchburg, Va. 7
Jan. 14 Eastern Mennonite HOME WRESTLING
Jan. 19 Queens College HOME Nov. 20 Millersville ‘Tournament Millersville, Pa.
Jan. 22 Emory & Henry HOME Dec. 1 Lynchburg, Virginia State Lynchburg, Va.
Jan. 25 Hampden-Sydney Hampden-Sydney, Va. Dec. W&L Invitational HOME
Jan. 29 Bridgewater HOME (George Mason, Madison, V.M.L.,
Feb. 1 Eastern Mennonite Harrisonburg, Va. Liberty Baptist, Maryville,
Feb. 3 Shenandoah College HOME York, Howard, W&L)
Feb. 5 Virginia Wesleyan HOME Dec. 7 V.M.I. HOME
Feb. 9 Randolph-Macon HOME Dec. 9 Liberty Baptist “HOME
Feb. 12 Maryville College Maryville, ‘Tenn. Jan. 12 Eastern Mennonite HOME
Feb. 16 UNC-Greensboro Greensboro, N.C. Jan. 15 George Mason HOME
Feb. 19 Bridgewater Bridgewater, Va. Jan. 22 Citadel Tournament Charleston, S. C.
Feb. 25-26 Old Dominion Athletic HOME Jan. 24 Colgate HOME
Conference ‘Tournament Jan. 26 Hampden-Sydney Hampden-Sydney, Va.
Mar. 2 Madison College HOME Jan. 29 Virginia State Meet Charlottesville, Va.
Feb. 2 Virginia Commonwealth HOME
SWIMMING Feb. 5 Brave Invitational Pembroke, N. C.
Nov. 10 Briarwood Club HOME Feb. 11 Catawba Salisbury, N. C.
Nov. 13 Millersville Relays Lancaster, Pa. Feb. 12 Davidson Davidson, N. C.
Nov. 19 Madison College HOME Feb. 16 Madison Harrisonburg, Va.
Dec. 4 University of Richmond HOME Feb. 23 ODAC Tournament HOME
Jan. 8 Virginia Tech HOME Mar. 3-4-5 NCAA Division III
Jan. 15 George Washington Washington, D.C. Championships Binghamton, N. Y.

 

20

 

 

J. CARTER Fox, ‘61, Chairman
of the 1976-77 Annual Fund.
Fox will also serve as Academic
Alumni Chairman. A _ former
Class Agent and Vice President,
he was Alumni Fund Chairman
last year. Fox is vice president
for Corporate Planning and De-
velopment of the Chesapeake
Corporation of Virginia and
lives in West Point, Va.

ALUMNI VICE CHAIRMEN

OLD GUARD (1900-26):
William C. Washburn *40A

Group IA (1927A-32A):
Herbert G. Jahncke *30A

Group IIA (1933A-39A):
John E. Neill ’38A

Group IIIA (1940A-49A):
Russell G. Browning *42A

Group IVA (1950A-59A):
Robert S. Griffith ’52A

Group VA (1960A-69A):
Jack H. DeJarnette ’65A

Group VIA (1970A-76A):
Robert D. LaRue ’72A

Group I Law (1927L-42L):
J. N. Harman III ’40L

ALUMNI CLASS AGENTS

Academic

27A Gossett W. McRae
28A Stuard A. Wurzburger
29A 'T. Graham Gibson
30A Earl T. Jones

31A Stuart Sanders II
32A John W. Ball

33A Charles J. Longacre
34A Scott Mosovich

35A James M. Franklin
36A George W. Harrison
37A Albert A. Radcliffe
38A Ernest Williams
39A William A. Jenks
40A ‘Thomas E. Bruce Jr.
41A Robert C. Peery
429A Russell G. Browning
43A Kenelm L. Shirk Jr.
44A George T. Wood
45A Charles S. Rowe
46A Donald S. Hillman
47A Warren G. Merrin
48A Hallett R. Gates

 

S. MAYNARD TuRK, 752 Law,
Law Alumni Chairman. A for-
mer Class Agent, he served last
year as Vice Chairman of the
Alumni Fund with responsibil-
ity for the Law Classes of 1948
through 1959. He is general
counsel for Hercules, Inc., and

Joun H. VAN AmBuRGH, Cur-
rent Parents Chairman. He is
the father of Michael B. Van
Amburgh, ’80, Steven W.
Van Amburgh, 775, and Thomas
G. Van Amburgh, 773. Van Am-
burgh is president of Explo-
sives, Inc., and lives in Dallas.

 

 

lives in Wilmington, Del.

Group II Law (1948L-59L):
Willis M. Anderson ’52L

Group III Law (1960L-69L):
Henry Angel ’66L

Group IV Law (1970L-76L):
Malcolm H. Squires, ’70A, ’73L

Telethon:
L. Gordon Miller ’45A

PARENTS AREA CHAIRMEN
Ted J. Black

Darnall W. Boyd

George F. Carroll

Alan T. Drennen Jr.
Frederick N. Godin

Bernard B. Lane

C. Coleman McGehee

R. E. Monahan

Gordon G. Tucker

49A
50A
51A
52A
53A
54A
5DA
56A
57A
58A
59A Charles D. Hurt Jr.
60A Robert P. Hawkins
61A J. Harvey Allen Jr.
62A Peter A. Agelasto III
63A Daniel T. Balfour
64A Brice Gamber

65A Alfred J. T. Byrne
66A Rob C. Vaughan III
67A B. Michael Herman
68A William F. Stone Jr.
69A Jeremy E. Brown

70A John W. Thomas III
71A John M. McCardell Jr.
72A Robert M. Turnbull
73A G. Archer Frierson

E. Stewart Epley
Gus A. Fritchie Jr.
James E. Moyler Jr.
William F. Barron Jr.
Hugh S. Glickstein
Frank A. Parsons
John W. Stackhouse
William W. Dixon
Stephen M. Ehudin

Vernon W. Holleman Jr.

 

7T4A
T5A
76A

Law
2th
28L
294,
30L
31L
S21;
33L
34L
35L
56L
37L
38L
39L
40L
41L
421,
48L
49L
50L
51L

W. MARTIN

KEMPE, Past Par-
ents Chairman. He is the father
of M. Alexander Kempe, 775.
Kempe served as Chairman of

the Parents Fund in 1973-74
and in 1974-75. Formerly vice
president of the Rochester Cor-
poration, he is retired and
manages the family farm in
Orange, Va.

Unified Annual Fund

has strong leadership

In recognition of the singular importance of gifts to
support current operations, the Alumni Fund and the
Parents Fund, which have been separate in the past, have
been unified this year into a single Annual Fund. Shown
on this page are the men who will provide the volunteer
leadership so vital to the Annual Fund’s success. Listed
are the names of the more than 100 volunteers who will be
working to achieve this year’s goal of $735,000 (an increase
of 7% over the amount given by alumni, parents, and

friends last year).

Michael Guroian
B. Harrison Turnbull
H. Mynders Glover

Charles T. Smith

G. Oldham Clarke
Samuel C. Strite
Maurice J. Arnd
Ethan Allen

James S. Shields
Franklin R. Bigham
Robert D. Bailey
Edwin T. Coulbourn
William H. Seaton
Harry T. Moreland
Daniel W. Wilkinson Jr.
John D. Goodin
William F. Saunders
Charles F. Heiner
Charles F. Bagley Jr.
Carter R. Allen

W. D. Bain Jr.
Samuel I. White
George J. Kostel

 

52L Jackson L. Kaiser

53L Robert L. Banse

54L Kimber L. White

55L John M. Faison

56L Milton T. Herndon
57L Douglas K. Frith

58L Robert G. McCullough
59L Owen A. Neff

60L Isaac N. Smith Jr.
61L William F. Ford

62L William R. Moore Jr.
63L ‘Timothy G. Ireland
64L Richard L. Lawrence
65L Francis A. Sutherland
66L Raymond H. Vizethann Jr.
67L W. Roscoe Reynolds
68L Louie A. Paterno Jr.
69L David D. Redmond
70L Benjamin B. Cummings
71L Walter J. Borda

72L Stewart M. Hurtt

73L John C. Moore

74L Jody S. Kline

75L Angelica Didier

76L Frank L. Duemmler

21

Chapter news

 

SOEs

PHILADELPHIA—Area fres

CHARLOTTE—Trustee John L. Crist, 45; Dennis E. Myers III, ’73;
Bonnie Greer; J. Pegram Johnson, ‘66; and James J. White III, 51.

hmen with Alumni Director Edwin J.
Foltz, ’40, (fourth from right standing), Francis D. Crew, ’37,

  
   

i

 

 

host, (right of Foltz), and John E. Kelly, 66, chapter president

(right of Crew).

CHARLOTTE. A large group of alum-
ni gathered Aug. 9 at the home of Presi-
dent David T. Johnson Jr., ’68, for a beer
and hot dog party honoring the eight area
freshmen. Both Bill Washburn, 40, and
Marty Bass, ’70, from the alumni office
in Lexington, were at the cookout to wel-
come the freshmen, their parents, and cur-
rent students. During a short business
session, the following new officers were
elected: W. Joseph Dozier Jr., 70, presi-
dent; J. Pegram Johnson III, ’66, vice
president; Dennis E. Myers III, ’73, sec-
retary; and Alan W. Lee, ’69, treasurer.
After taking the chair, Dozier recognized
John L. Crist, 45, a member of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees, and expressed
deep appreciation to Dave and Page
Johnson for the fine hospitality of their
home. He discussed a proposed program
for the new year and solicited the con-
tinued enthusiastic support from his fel-
low alumni.

Ze

PHILADELPHIA. The chapter _ wel-
comed the new area freshmen and their
parents at a reception Aug. 10 at the
lovely home and farm of Mr. and Mrs.
Frank Crew, ’37, in Glenmoore, Pa. Bill
Washburn, alumni secretary, was present
to greet and congratulate the entering

freshmen. The group enjoyed cocktails

and a buffet picnic featuring fresh corn
from the Crew farm. John Kelly, ’66A,
’69L, chapter president, extended a warm
welcome to the new students and much
appreciation to the Crews for their hos-
pitality.

WASHINGTON. The chapter’s annual
stag luncheon honoring 36 incoming
freshmen, their fathers and current stu-
dents, was held at the University Club
Aug. 11. John Schoenfeld, ’49, gave a brief
report on the University’s new undergra-
duate library, on which construction had
just begun. Visitors at the meeting in-

WASHINGTON-Stuart S. Bailey, ’50; John Schoenfeld, ’49;
Edson B. Olds IV, ’61; J. Michael Winston, ’59.

 

CHARLESTON, W.VA.—Group of alumni enjoy reception. At far
right are Fred Belden, 60, and Ruge DeVan, ’34.

cluded Charles C. Stieff Il, °45, from
Baltimore, a member of the Alumni
Board of Directors, Bill Washburn, ’40,
and Marty Bass, ’70, both from the alum-
ni office. In a brief business session pre-
sided over by Chapter President John
Zamoiski, ’74, the members unanimously
approved a motion to contribute a
$100 gift to Washington and Lee as a
memorial to Dean Frank J. Gilliam.

CHARLESTON. The chapter met at
the Edgewood Country Club on Aug. 17
to honor the incoming area freshmen
and to welcome University guests Verne
Canfield, basketball coach; Bill Wash-
burn, alumni secretary; and Marty Bass,
assistant alumni secretary. After cocktails
and hors d’oeuvres, Louis Paterno, ’65,
chapter president, presided over a short
program and introduced the guests. Coach
Canfield spoke on the overall sports pro-
gram at W&L with emphasis on the bas-

 

PALMETTO—Area freshmen Hud Paschal, Norris Laffitte, Kevin
W. Dickey, Leslie A. Cotter Jr., Carl Lowder, and Charles N.

Plowden III.

PALMETTO-—In foreground are Claude M. Walker, ’41, Joe

Walker II, "76, and Sandy Stradtman, ’77.

ketball squad. Washburn reported on the
start of construction of the new library.
Paterno expressed concern over the num-
ber of students from the Charleston area
enrolling at Washington and Lee. He
urged the chapter members to lend their
assistance in the area of student recruit-
ment.

PALMETTO. Mr. and Mrs. Morris
Lumpkin and their son, Larry, ’76, were
hosts at a cocktail party at their home
in Columbia on Aug. 18. ‘The occasion
honored the six incoming freshmen from
the area and a large group of alumni and
current students were present to welcome
and congratulate them. Verne Canfield,
basketball coach, and Bill Washburn,
alumni secretary, both attended and made
brief remarks to the group. Chapter Presi-
dent Philip G. Grose Jr., ’60, presided
over a brief program during which he
thanked the other chapter officers and

 

their wives for making the arrangements.
He was joined by the entire group in
thanking the Lumpkins for the hospital-
ity of their home.

LYNCHBURG. Alumni gathered for a
reception honoring area freshmen Aug.
25 at the home of Mr. and Mrs. George
H. Fralin Jr., ’57. Fralin, chapter presi-
dent, and Starke Sydnor, ’66, secretary-
treasurer, planned and arranged the
gathering. Marty Bass, ’70, assistant alum-
ni secretary and Mrs. Bass represented the
University.

CLEVELAND. A small group of alum-
ni met for lunch at the Union Club in
Cleveland Aug. 25 to honor the four in-
coming area freshmen and several cur-
rent students. The meeting also honored
Benjamin F. Fiery, ’13, who had received
the Distinguished Alumnus Award earlier
in the day. Bill Washburn, alumni secre-

 

OKLAHOMA CITY—Mr. and Mrs. Jay D. Shaffer flank their son,
Jay D. Shaffer, °78, and David J. McCubbin, ’80.

 

OKLAHOMA CITY—Col. Harold J. Sullivan, 32, and Millar B.
White, 725.

tary, was present to extend congratula-
tions to Fiery and to the new students.
After a color slide presentation of the
campus, Washburn recognized Sid Kap-
lan, 56, who has been named president
of the chapter. Kaplan expressed his ap-
preciation to those alumni present for
their interest and support and spoke of
future plans to reactivate the chapter.

OKLAHOMA CITY. Alumni in Okla-
homa City and its surrounding communi-
ties gathered Aug. 27 for the purpose of
organizing an alumni chapter. The en-
thusiastic group met for cocktails and a
buffet dinner at the Beacon Club and
were pleased to welcome several current
students and incoming area freshmen.
John McMurry, ’66, presided and ex-
plained the purposes of the chapter. He
recognized Col. Harold Sullivan, ’32, Fred
Shellabarger, *40, ‘Ted Duncan III, ’69,
and H. Eugene Melton Jr., 62, all of

23

 

PENINSULA—Herbert G. Smith III, ’80, Mrs. Sherman and son,

F. Will Sherman, ’80.

PENINSULA—Dr.

table are Mrs. Jenks; Ben A. Williams III, ’71; Mrs. Williams;
Mrs. Dowding; and Phillip M. Dowding, ’52.

whom had greatly assisted in the organi-
zational endeavors and were named to the
steering committee. Representing the
University was Bill Washburn, alumni
secretary, who officially recognized the
chapter and established McMurry as its
first president. After a presentation of
color slides of the campus and a brief re-
port on the University, the meeting ad-
journed.

PENINSULA. ‘The chapter honored the
nine entering area freshmen and their
parents at a reception and dinner at the
James River Country Club on Aug. 31.
Ben Williams, ’71, chapter vice president,
presided in the absence of Charles Spen-
cer, 59. Williams introduced the fresh-
men and presented Dr. William A. Jenks,
39, who is the William R. Kenan Jr. Pro-
fessor of History and head of the history
department at Washington and Lee. Dr.
Jenks’s report on the University was well
received by the group. In the brief busi-

24

 

 

PENINSULA—Entering freshmen William L. Robertson Jr.,

David M. Murray Jr., and Thomas A. Wornom.

ness session, I. Leake Wornom Jr., ’50, re-
ported for the nominating committee and
named Williams as president, Phil Dow-
ding, ’52, as vice president, and Conway
Shield III, 64, as secretary-treasurer. The
slate was unanimously elected. Also at-
tending from the University, were Mrs.
Jenks and Alumni Secretary and Mrs.
Bill Washburn. Washburn spoke briefly
about the new alumni directory and pre-
sented several photographs of the archi-
tect’s model of the new library, on which
construction had just begun.

FLORIDA WEST COAST. The four
freshmen from the Tampa Bay area were
honored at a barbecue cookout at the
home of George W. Harvey Jr., 63, chap-
ter president, on Aug. 25. Forty-four per-
sons, including alumni, current students,
the freshmen and their parents, attend-
ed the gathering. The party was hosted
by Harvey, Donald W. Belveal, ’63A,
’65L, Michael L. Carrere, ’71, George T.

 

PENINSULA—Dr. B. Voss Neal, 51; Peggy Smith; Joan Forrest;
William H. Forrest Jr., 55, and Judge Herbert G Smith ’17.

Coward, ’63, J. ‘Thomas Touchton, ’60,
and Herbert J. Friedman, father of Frank
Friedman, ’78.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. Alumni met
for cocktails Sept. 1 at the Shera-
ton Motor Inn in Hagerstown. Special
guests of the chapter were John Psillas,
an incoming freshman, and his parents,
Mr. and Mrs. William G. Psillas. Mr. and
Mrs. Marty Bass, ’70, represented the
University. Bass briefly addressed the
group on new developments, the admis-
sions program, and the impact of recent
large gifts at Washington and Lee. Dur-
ing a short business session, the following
new officers were elected: Dr. George
Smith, ’56, president; John Hoke, ’60,
vice president; and Hamp Tisdale, ’74L,
secretary-treasurer. Outgoing President
Ken Long, ’69, received a hearty round of
applause for his work as president dur-
ing the past year and for his efforts in
arranging the very successful meeting.

Class notes

 

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $68.00 f.o.b.
Lexington, Virginia

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your
check. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

192]

Cot. WILLIAM J. RUSHTON retired June 30,
1976, as chairman of the board of directors
of Protective Life Insurance Co. in Birming-
ham, Ala. Rushton began his career in the
family business, the Birmingham Ice and
Cold Storage Co. In 1927, at the age of 27,
he was elected to the board of Protective
Life. In 1938, he was named president and
during his tenure the company grew from a
small, solid company to a nationally re-
spected giant with assets in excess of $269.5
million and insurance in force of $4.2 billion.
Rushton has been exceedingly active in civic
affairs and honors which have come his way
are too numerous to mention. He is a mem-
ber of the U. S. Army Reserve and was call-
ed to active duty in 1940. He served as com-
manding officer of the Birmingham Ordance
District and was awarded the Legion of Merit
at the close of World War II. Rushton was
inducted into the Alabama Academy of

Honor.
1924

DR. JAMES P. BRAWNER, retired professor
emeritus of English at West Virginia Uni-
versity, conducted a series of public lectures
in London this past August. Sponsored by
the College of the City of London, he spoke
on Shakespeare and authors of the romantic
movement—particularly Wordsworth and
Keats. In addition to lecturing, Brawner con-
ducted discussion seminars for the summer
students at London Polytechnic University.

1927

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON is the author of a
lead article in the October issue of the Jn-
ternational Association of Insurance Coun-
sel Journal entitled “Why Expand Unin-
sured Motorist Coverage.’’ Witherspoon lives
in Meridian, Miss.

[29

E. Harris GEE of Fuquay-Varina, N.C., re-
tired in 1972 after more than 40 years in the
leaf tobacco exporting business.

ESS |

In August 1976, DUNCAN MCCONNELL  be-
came a professor emeritus at Ohio State
University where he had taught in the Col-
lege of Dentistry and the department of geo-
logy and mineralogy. He served as chair-
man of mineralogy and as assistant dean of
the graduate school during the mid ’50s. Be-
fore joining O.S.U. in 1950, he had been af-
filiated with the Gulf Oil Corp., the USS.
Bureau of Reclamation, the U.S. Bureau

of Mines, and the University of Texas. Mc-
Connell has held appointments as research
associate with the Argonne National Labora-
tories and the O.S.U. Research Foundation,
and has lectured in France, Germany, Eng-
land, Canada, and Mexico. He is author of
more than 100 articles included in scientific
journals, books and the Encyclopedia Bri-
tannica. He is listed in World Who’s Who
in Science and Who’s Who in the World.

1934

ARTHUR T. GUNN JR., veteran newspaperman,
has retired from the Lynchburg Daily Ad-
vance where he was editorial page editor.
He began his newspaper career in 1935 as
editor of the Altavista Journal. Later he
also worked with the Hopewell News and
served as secretary of the Hopewell Cham-
ber of Commerce. Gunn came to Lynchburg
in 1940 as a reporter for the News. After a
tour of army duty during World War II, he
returned to become political reporter for
the News and then city editor in 1946. Gunn
was named assistant editorial page editor of
the News and Daily Advance in 1957 and
editorial page editor of the Daily Advance in
1958.

EVERETT ‘TUCKER JR. was quoted in the Oct.
4 issue of U. S. News & World Report in an
article about school integration. Tucker, an
industrial developer in Little Rock, was presi-
dent of the school board from 1959 to 1963.
The article states that Little Rock has
“about as extensive a mixing plan as you
can get.” He was concerned that “from the
time the crisis began in 1957 through 1961,
no new industrial plants located in Little
Rock.” To quote the U. S, News & World
Report, “the Little Rock story has been one
of healing wounds, rebuilding community
cooperation and getting the Arkansas city
moving again.”

1935

KARL P. WILLARD retired in July 1976 after
41 years with Willard Mirror Co., a family
owned firm. He and his wife Helen spend
summers in Colorado Springs and winters in
Fort Smith, Ark.

1936

Virginia Delegate LEwis A. MCMuRRAN Jp.
of Newport News has been elected chairman
of the Bicentennial Council for the 13 ori-
ginal states for a 12-month period ending
July 1977. The Bicentennial Council is head-
quartered in Alexandria and sponsors nu-
merous Bicentennial projects.

25

Class Notes

1937

KELLEY E. REED, formerly with the Reed,
Shannon Insurance Agency, has joined
Wheat, First Securities, Inc. as a registered
representative. Reed is president of Reed
Shannon Agency. He was also president of
Kelley Reed Pontiac from 1971 until 1975
and is treasurer of Kelley Green Land Co.
He served in the Army during World War
II and obtained the rank of major. Kelley is
a director of the City National Bank and the
Dollar Savings & Loan Co. He is a past presi-
dent of the West Virginia Independent In-
surers Association and a past president of
the Charleston Exchange Club. The Reeds
have three sons and the family lives in Char-

leston, W. Va.
1940

SYDNEY LEwis, chairman of the board and
chief executive officer of Best Products Co.,
Inc., of Richmond, Va., has been selected by
the trustees of the Northwestern Mutual Life
Insurance Co. to serve on the company’s
1976 examining committee of policyowners.
‘The committee, which has existed in its pre-
sent form since 1919, represents Northwes-
tern’s policyowners in reviewing company
operating policies and practices. Although
appointed by the board of trustees, commit-

tee members have complete autonomy in de-
termining areas of investigation and estab-
lishing meeting agendas. Lewis is a trustee
of Washington and Lee and Virginia Union
University. He is a member of the acquisi-
tions committee of the Whitney Museum of
Art, New York; the board of visitors of the
School of Visual Arts, Boston; the advisory
board of the Institute of Contemporary Art
at the University of Pennsylvania; and the
board of directors of the Hirshhorn Museum
& Sculpture Garden, Washington, D. C. He
is also a 1976 National Honoree of Beta Gam-
ma Sigma, a national honorary business soc-
iety.

194]

Jack W. WARNER, chairman of the board and
president of Gulf States Paper Corporation
of Tuscaloosa, Ala., was awarded an honor-
ary Doctor of Laws degree from the Univer-
sity of Alabama during the summer com-
mencement activities. Warner’s honors and
awards include the Governor’s Award, Ala-
bama Forest Conservationist of the Year,
1970; Man of the Year, Alabama Council for
the National Management Association; and
Man of the Year, Culver Military Academy,
1972. Warner is a trustee at Washington and
Lee.

 

Lewis A. McMurran Jr. (r) ’36, chairman of the Virginia Independence Bicentennial
Commission, escorts Queen Elizabeth II as she enters the Western Virginia Bicentennial
Center in Charlottesville on July 10.

26

 

Sydney Lewis, ’40

1943

MARRIAGE: MALcoLmM A. DEANS and Susan
C. Foss, on Dec. 13, 1975, in Cecil County,
Md. At the time of his marriage, Deans was
assistant managing editor of the Philadel-
phia Bulletin. He is now on the facuty of
the School of Journalism at the University of
Colorado in Boulder. His wife teaches jour-
nalism at Metropolitan State College in
Denver. ‘The couple lives in Boulder.

1944

After four terms in the Indiana General
Assembly as vice chairman of the Ways and
Means Committee, WILLIAM S. LaAtTz is now
executive director of the Indiana State Of-
fice Building Commission in Indianapolis.

1946

JEROME D. GREENBERG and his wife Florence
attended the Olympics in Montreal. It was
their third Olympics, having attended the
1968 games in Mexico and the 1964 games

in Tokyo.
1947

Dr. ‘THOMAS M. WRIGHT practices surgery in
Falls Church, Va. He is also chief of general
surgery at Fairfax Hospital and assistant
clinical professor of surgery at Georgetown
University. Wright is a trustee of the Fair-
fax Hospital Association and vice president
of the Virginia Surgical Society.

1948

GEORGE S. BRYAN, an investment banker for
the New York Stock Exchange firm of Alex
Brown and Sons in Chattanooga, Tenn., was
awarded the distinguished service award by
the Baylor School of Chattanooga.

1949

Rear Adm. D. EARL Brown Jr. assumed the
position of commanding officer of the
Naval Regional Medical Center at San Diego,
Calif., on July 9, 1976. The center is the
largest military medical facility in the world,
serving roughly a half million local bene-
ficiaries.

During September WILLIAM E. LATTURE
visited his company’s plants in Johannes-
burg, Durban, Nairobi, and Abidjan in
Africa. His wife Louise accompanied him.
Their trip also included Paris, London, and

Glasgow.
1950

JoHN McKELway, a staff writer for the Wash-
ington, D. C., Star, was the author of a series

 

A. Williamson Jr., ’50

of sports page articles, in that paper, about
the Professional Golf Association’s August
tournament which was plagued by violent
thunderstorms. McKelway, a_ self-avowed
“hacker,” mused that washout had always
come to him with the enjoyable expectation
of sitting in the clubhouse with a few friends
and drinks and listening to amusing tales of
golf. Not so with professionals, he notes, that
“sooner or later, they must finish.”” When he
isn’t hacking (at golf) McKelway is, among
other things, proprietor of the Star’s column,
“Names and Faces,” a capsule report and
commentary on news and quasi-news de-
velopment.

WiLLtiAM N. (NAT) Weaver, formerly with
Colley, Trumbower and Howell, a certified
public accounting firm in Orlando, Fla.,
has been tapped by the Internal Revenue
Service to act as a passive trustee of Keogh
plans and individual retirement accounts. It
was not an easy recognition to obtain and
came about only after one year of study and
discussions with the IRS regarding the Em-
ployee Retirement Income Security Act of
1974 and subsequent regulations. After much
discussion, Weaver was notified in June 1976
that he did qualify as a passive trustee in
such accounts. He has formed the Retire-
ment Accounts, Inc., and is engaged in sell-
ing his services to brokerage houses through-
out the Southeast and in conducting semi-
nars for those who do not have established
pension plans through their employers and
are therefore eligible for individual retire-
ment accounts.

Several years ago ADRIAN WILLIAMSON JR. con-
ceived a plan for a Monticello, Ark., civic
center which would encompass local and
regional health, education and cultural facil-
ities. After much organization and_prep-
aration, the plan became reality and _ this
fall the Drew County Health, Education and
Cultural Complex opened. The $7.5 million
complex, located southwest of Monticello,
includes a new 50-bed county hospital, the
Monticello High School, a vocational-techni-
cal center, a doctors’ clinic, a school for chil-
dren with learning disabilities, and a regional
mental health center. The complex was
dedicated in honor of Williamson who de-
veloped the idea of the multi-purpose cen-
ter after reading about the numerous and
varied projected improvements in Monti-
cello. After suggesting a consolidation of
structure, Williamson worked tirelessly to
locate the necessary land, funding and sup-
port for the project. Williamson is currently
a development associate of Washington and
Lee. He also serves as a consultant of the

 

H. W. Jones Jr.,

"52

Arkansas State Council of Economic Educa-
tion and has had extensive banking, indus-
trial and advisory experience.

195]

ROBERT W. PITTENGER has been elected as-
sistant vice president of the investment re-
search department of Wheat, First Securities,
Inc. Formerly a securities analyst with First
Securities Corp. of North Carolina, Pittenger
joined Wheat in 1971 when the North Caro-
lina firm merged with Wheat & Co. Pit-
tenger lives in Chester, Pa.

FREDERICK G. UHLMANN, vice president of
Drexel Burnham & Co., Inc., an establish-
ed New York banking and investment firm
in Chicago, Ill., has been elected to the
board of directors of the Illinois Society for
the Prevention of Blindness. Uhlmann has
spent most of his working career in the com-
modity brokerage business. He is a member
of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the
Chicago Board of Trade.

loz

HENRY W. JoNEs Jr. has been elected presi-
dent of the Southern Hardwood Lumber
Manufacturers Association, the trade associa-
tion representing the major hardwood lum-
ber companies in the Southern states. Jones
is a second-generation lumberman and _ is
president of the Cathey-Williford-Jones Co.
in Memphis. He is also associated with the
Bellgrade Lumber Co. Jones has taken an
active role in many lumber industry activi-
ties and presently is serving as vice president
of the National Hardwood Lumber Associa-
tion and as an alternate to the board of di-
rectors of the National Forest Products As-
sociation. He is a founder of the Hardwood
Institute. Jones and his wife, the former
Carol Lewis, have three children.

1953

Tuomas A. BULL is a practicing child psy-
chiatrist in Duxbury, Mass. He and his wife
have two sons.

JAY W. Jackson, formerly the insurance com-
missioner for the state of Connecticut, has
been appointed legal counsel to Gov. Grasso.
Jackson is a former Democratic state sena-
tor. In addition to his post as the governor’s
legal counsel, he will continue his private
practice of law in West Hartford.

STEPHEN F. LICHTENSTEIN, formerly in private
law practice, has become the general coun-
sel, vice president and secretary of Lenox,
Inc., of Trenton, N. J.

1954

GEORGE H. GREER, president of W. H. Greer
Supply Co., Inc., in Owensboro, Ky., has been
elected to the board of directors of Western
Kentucky Gas Go. Greer is a former Ken-
tucky state representative from the 13th dis-
trict and served for eight years as a city
commissioner of Owensboro. He also served
for four years as mayor pro tem. He
holds memberships in a number of
gas industry and equipment supplier associa-
tions. He and his wife, the former Ann
Hadaway, have two daughters and two sons.

WiLltIAM S. LUCKETT is vice president in
charge of metropolitan banking for Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co. He is also vice com-
modore of the Larchmont Yacht Club. He
and his wife Dede have four children.

1955
‘THoMAs M. ScHMIDT is owner and director
of the Contemporary Arts Center in Albu-
querque, N. Mex. The center includes an art
gallery, a small theater, and spaces for art
workshops of all types.

JERRY F, STONE JR., a managing director with
Lehman Brothers Inc., the investment bank-
ing house in New York, has been named to
the board of directors.

1956

CHARLES A. MACINTOsH of Ardmore, Pa., has
been appointed to a position with Episcopal
Community Services, the health and human
services arm of the Episcopal Diocese of
Pennsylvania. He will serve as director of
All Saints’ Hospital, a physical rehabilita-
tion facility in Chestnut Hill, and a nearby
retirement residence at Springfield, Pa. Prior
to accepting his new position, MacIntosh
was associate administrator at Temple Uni-
versity Hospital in Philadelphia. He has
also held administrative posts in the Greater
Baltimore Medical Center, Genesee Hospital
in Rochester, N. Y., Lankenau Hospital in
Philadelphia and the hospital of the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania. MacIntosh is a fellow of
the American Hospital Association, the
Delaware Valley Hospital Council, the
American Management Association, and the
Hospital Association of Pennsylvania.

1957

LAWRENCE B,. CLARK was presented a lifetime
membership as senator in Jaycees Interna-
tional by the Mobile, Ala., chapter. He is
also a member of Crew, an honorary associa-
tion of former Jaycee national officers.

27

 

Bill McWilliams, ’61

E. Topp TERRES is employed as comptroller
for the officer in charge of construction for
Trident, the organization responsible for
the Trident Submarine Base in Bangor,
Wash. He lives in Bremerton.

1958

MICHAEL J. BARRY has been appointed ac-
count supervisor at J. Walter Thompson, a
national advertising agency in Chicago, IIl.
His most recent position was associate re-
search director. Barry first joined the agency
in 1963 as an account research manager.

FREDERICK J. RAMSAY, former associate dean
of student affairs and acting chairman of the
department of anatomy, has recently been ap-
pointed to the newly created post of associ-
ate dean and director of the office of gov-
ernmental liaison at the University of Mary-
land School of Medicine. He has an active
role in federal and state legislative matters.

VERNON W. HOLLEMAN Jr., a certified life
underwriter of the Washington agency of
Home Life Insurance Co., has received that
company’s highest honor. At a special cere-
mony, held in St. Martin, Dutch Antilles,
Holleman was inducted into Home Life’s
Hall of Fame. Only 35 other members of the
company’s organization have previously
achieved such status. Holleman’s career with
Home Life began in 1960 and he has con-
sistently been one of the company’s leading
underwriters, earning the top 25 awards and
placing in the top ten. He is a qualifying
and life member of the Million Dollar Round
Table and has received the industry’s qual-
ity business award each year he has been in
the business. Holleman is active in pro-
fessional affairs and has served as president
of the D. C. Life Underwriters Association
and as vice chairman of consumer affairs for
the National Association of Life Underwrit-
ers. He is very active in community affairs as
well and serves as chairman of the Davis Me-
morial Goodwill Industries, and as vice presi-
dent of the Washington, D. C., Kiwanis
Club. He is also a director of Perpetual
Federal Savings and Loan.

GARY McCPHERSON, former head coach at
Virginia Military Institute, has been named
top basketball assistant at the University of
Cincinnati. McPherson started his coaching
career at Bluestone (Va.) High School where
he stayed for three years before taking a job
at Ferrum College in 1961. He went to VMI
as an assistant in 1963 and the next year
was named the youngest head coach in the
nation at 27 years of age. He coached the
VMI Keydets for five seasons before taking

28

 

a job as assistant basketball coach at West
Virginia University in 1969. After five years
at West Virginia University, McPherson was
named head coach at Alderson-Broaddus in
1974, where he continued until taking the
position with Cincinnati.

CABELL C. HEYwarp (See 1960, Shields.)

1959

Dr. THomas P. FOLEY JR. is assistant profes-
sor of pediatrics in the division of endo-
crinology and metabolism at the University
of Pittsburgh and director of the Clinical
Research Center at the Childrens’ Hospital
of Pittsburgh. In addition, Foley finds time
for membership in the Alleghany River Boys,
a group which performs traditional bluegrass
music in the Tri-State area.

1960

E. PETER LITTON (correction September, 1976)
is vice president and general manager for
Litton, Inc., the Volkswagen and Audi auto-
mobile dealership in Ft. Smith, Ark. (not
Little Rock as reported).

H. GERALD SHIELDS is director of guidance at
Augusta Preparatory School in Georgia. He
also teaches English and coaches soccer. ‘The
headmaster of Augusta Preparatory School
is Cabell Heyward, class of 1958.

196]

BIRTH: Maj. and Mrs. CLINTON ANDERSON,
a son, John Stuart, on Aug. 21, 1976, in
Washington, D. C. Anderson was recently
transferred from Ft. Sill, Okla., to the Ad-
jutant General Center where he is an ac-
tion officer with the education directorate.

WILLIAM (BILL) MCWILLIAMS has been ap-
pointed executive vice president of the cor-
porate group for United American Bank of
Knoxville. The corporate group includes the
national account and the _ correspondent
bank divisions. McWilliams began his bank-
ing career with Wachovia Bank and Trust
Company in Asheville, N. C. He then moved
to the Bank of Virginia in Richmond where
he became senior vice president with respon-
sibility for the corporate banking division.
He serves on many Civic organizations’ and
was a past officer of the North Carolina
Young Bankers Association. He and_ his
wife Karen have two daughters.

1962

WORTHINGTON BROWN Jr. has organized and
begun an import tile company, Old World

Tiles, Inc., of Memphis, Tenn. The company
also handles domestic tiles for special jobs
and imports many other types of building
supplies.

RosBert A. DUNLAP JR. has been elected to
assistant vice president, trust division, of
Irving Trust Co. of New York.

Dr. Jos—EPpH L. GOLDSTEIN, associate professor
of medicine at the University of ‘Texas
Southwestern Medical School at Dallas, is a
recipient of the 1976 Pfizer Award in en-
zyme chemistry. Administered by the Ameri-
can Chemical Society’s division of biological
chemistry, the award recognizes outstanding
achievement by young scientists engaged in
non-commercial research. Goldstein complet-
ed his internship at Massachusetts General
Hospital and served as a teaching fellow at
Harvard University Medical School. Between
1968 and 1970, he was a clinical associate
with the National Heart Institute. He then
joined the University of Washington School
of Medicine as a special National Heart In-
stitute fellow in the division of medical
genetics.

W. HAYNE Hipp, president of the Green-
ville, S.C., Urban League, Inc., was elected
a director of the National Urban League at
the organization’s annual conference in Bos-
ton. Hipp, senior vice president of invest-
ments at Liberty Life Insurance Co., is the
only member from South Carolina. He is a
trustee of the Greenville County School Dis-
trict and vice president of the Metropolitan
YMCA. He is also a director of the Liberty
Life Insurance Co. and is on the advisory
board of the Citizen and Southern Na-
tional Bank.

WILLIAM L, ROBERTS JR. is in London where
he is with First National City Bank in charge
of the European account manager training
unit.

After graduation, WILLARD ‘TAYLOR began
work immediately with Warner and Swasey,
a major manufacturer of machine tools, in
Cleveland, Ohio. In 1964, he was moved to
Massachusetts and in 1968 was made New
England district sales manager for Wiede-
mann Division of Warner and Swasey. In
1970, Taylor joined The Jessam Corp., a
holding company located on Cape Cod. The
Jessam Corp. was instrumental in financing
Videocom, Inc., and in 1971 Taylor was ap-
pointed director of marketing. He holds
the position of executive vice president in
Videocom which has become one of the
most successful videotape houses in New
England. More recently Taylor has become a

 

J. W. Fowler, ’63

partner in Casselman Taylor, Inc., a film
subsidiary of Videocom, Inc. As chief oper-
ating officer, he will be responsible for the
business affairs of both companies. Taylor
and his wife Dianne have three children.

HARRY TETER JR., executive director of the
Appalachian Regional Commission, was the
principal speaker at the annual meeting of
the Ohio Valley Health Services Founda-
tion in September at the Ohio University
Inn in Athens, Ohio. Teter, an attorney in
Frostburg, Md., is one of the youngest in-
dividuals to hold such a post in the federal
government. The commission, created by the
Appalachian Regional Development Act of
1965 is a joint federal-state agency adminis-
tering the largest regional economic develop-
ment program in the United States,

1963

JoHN M. Fow er, formerly with Sealtest
Foods in Charlotte, N.C., has accepted a
position as manager of employee and pub-
lic relations at Texasgulf’s Phosphate Opera-
tions with headquarters in Aurora, N. C.
Fowler served with the U. S. Army in the
Adjutant General Corps from 1963 to 1965.
He was with Capitol Records from 1965 to
1968 and with Doubleday & Co. from 1968
until 1972. While with these companies he
served in various industrial relations capa-
cities. He is a member of the American So-
ciety of Personnel Administrators. He and his
wife, the former Susan Bentley, have three
children.

ALLAN H. JOHNSTON has been promoted to
group brand development manager by R. J.
Reynolds Tobacco Co., a subsidiary of R. J.
Reynolds Industries, Inc. Johnston joined
Reynolds Tobacco Co. in 1972 as a marketing
assistant. He was promoted that same year to
assistant product manager. In 1974 he trans-
ferred to the marketing department of
RJR Foods, Inc., also a subsidiary of R. J.
Reynolds Industries, as brand manager for
new products. He returned to the tobacco
company in 1975 as brand development
manager. Before joining R. J. Reynolds,
Johnston was with the marketing department
of General Foods Corp.

1964

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD B. MCFALL,
a daughter, Katherine Atkinson, on April 25,
1976. McFall is a practicing attorney in Hous-
ton, ‘Texas.

In July, Puitip H. LEMon became a partner
in the law firm of Dodson, Pence, Viar,

 

A. H. Johnston, ’63 F. C. Schaeffer, ’64

 

Young & Woodrum in Roanoke.

LESLIE C. RUCKER JR. has been promoted by
the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Co.
of Maryland to the position of district man-
ager, customer service, in Cumberland.

FREDERICK C, SCHAEFFER has been named di-
rector of Commercial and Industrial Bank
in Memphis, Tenn. He has been an agent
and supervisor with New England Mutual
Life Insurance Co. since his graduation from
Washington and Lee. He is a life member of
the Million Dollar Roundtable. Among his
civic and community endeavors, he is a
trustee at both the Hutchinson School and
Presbyterian Day School and an elder at
Second Presbyterian Church. He is a member
and a director of both Memphis Country
Club and The Memphis Hunt and Polo
Club and is active in the Memphis Cotton
Carnival.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JosEPH R. WILSON, a
daughter, Martha Amanda, on May 3, 1976.
Wilson is district Manager for Rollins, Inc.,
in Raleigh, N. C.

H. MEADE CADOT Jr., after receiving a Ph.D.
in geology from the University of Kansas,
is now on the faculty of the Antioch-New
England Graduate School in Keene, N. H.
He is also the director of the Harris Center
for Conservation Education and the Willard
Pond Audubon Sanctuary of Hancock.

JAQUELIN H. DEJARNETTE has been named
senior vice president for block trading and
institutional executions at Wheat, First Se-
curities, Inc., in Richmond, Va. He also will
be responsible for executions in connection
with restricted and letter stock. DeJar-
nette is a registered block positioner with the
New York Stock Exchange. He joined Wheat
in 1965 as a systems analyst, became a regi-
stered representative and then a member of
the institutional department. He was elected
vice president in 1971 and named manager
of the department the same year.

HAROLD (HAL) L. HOLLADAY has become an
instructor in English at Hamilton College
in Clinton, N. Y. After graduation from
Washington and Lee, Holladay studied for
his M.A. at Vanderbilt University. He later
took graduate courses at the University of
Michigan. At both Vanderbilt and Michigan,
Holladay was a research and editorial assis-
tant, teacher, lecture assistant and grader.

JosepH G. WHEELER, formerly with Cater-
pillar ‘Tractor Co., is now employed as

 

L. N. Miller Jr., 66

 

B. W. Rider, ’66

marketing manager for Thompson ‘Tractor
Co., a Caterpillar dealer in north Alabama.
He and his wife Lynn have two children.
The family lives in Birmingham.

WILLIAM MCWILLIAMs (See 1961.)

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. SCHROE-
DER III, a son, William A. IV, on Aug. 17,
1976. Schroeder is assistant vice president of
Corroon and Black-Armistead, Miller, Wal-
lace Inc., of New Orleans and specializes in
international insurance and reinsurance.

HARRY E. BRooksBy is with Mobil Oil Corp.
in Dallas, Texas, as an associate exploration
geologist. He is working in new exploration
ventures with a task force group making
evaluation of U. S. offshore acreage on the
continental shelf.

Lewis N. MILLER JR. has been named senior
vice president of the Central National Bank
of Richmond. He joined Central National
in June 1972, and was promoted to planning
officer in March 1973; assistant vice presi-
dent in November 1973; and vice president
in February 1976. Miller served as a lieu-
tenant with the United States Navy and was
released in 1969.

Bruce W. RIDER has been appointed com-
munity action program manager of the in-
formation systems group for Xerox Corp. He
joined Xerox in 1971 and has held various
positions in sales and marketing areas. In his
present capacity, he will be involved in
community action programs.

W. Court SOLOFF is the security director for
the General Telephone Co. of the Southwest
with operations in Texas, Oklahoma, Arkan-
sas, and New Mexico. He works out of the
general offices in San Angelo, Texas.

1967

MARRIAGE: JEFFREY T. ‘TwArpy and Mary
Patricia Martin, on Oct. 2, 1976, in Roanoke,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. FLATAU,
a daughter, Virginia Marshall, on April 13,
1976. Flatau is a practicing attorney in Ma-
con, Ga.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. JOHN R. MILLER,
a daughter, Sara Elizabeth, on May 15, 1976.
The family lives in Lexington, Va., where
Miller is assistant professor of military
science at W&L.

Zo

Class Notes

BIRTH: Mr, and Mrs. HUBERT H. YOUNG Jr.,
a daughter, Christine Brooks, on July 4,
1976. Young is general counsel for Trammell
Crow Co., an international real estate de-
veloper based in Dallas.

Howarp J. BECK JR., an attorney in Mar-
tinsville, Va., has been elected vice chairman
of the criminal law section of the Virginia
State Bar. He is also editor of the section’s
newsletter.

J. Mac HOoLiapAy served with the United
States Navy between 1967 and 1972 as an
aviator. He served as a pilot in the Far East
including Guam, Vietnam, Korea, Japan,
Indonesia, the Philippines, and Australia.
After being discharged with the rank of
lieutenant, Holladay became associated with
the Memphis area Chamber of Commerce.
He is a former manager of its member rela-
tions and staff vice president of special pro-
jects. Holladay has recently left Memphis to
assume the position as executive vice presi-
dent of the Columbus, Ind., area Chamber
of Commerce. Among his many professional
and civic activities, Holladay is a member of
the board of trustees of the Southern As-
sociation of Colleges and Schools. He is one
of three lay members to serve on this board.

Dr. Ropert L. Hott has begun the practice
of periodontics with offices in West Palm
Beach and in Boca Raton, Fla.

Dr. LEE PARSONS has been appointed assis-
tant professor of mathematics at Alleghany
College in Meadville, Pa. Parsons received
his master’s of science degree from Ohio
University in 1968 and the master’s of arts
degree from the University of Wisconsin in
1975. He has just completed his doctoral
studies at Wisconsin. He served as a teach-
ing assistant at Wisconsin and at Ohio Uni-
versity. In the 1968-69 school year he was an
instructor in the Ohio University math de-
partment. Parsons served in the U. S. Navy
from 1970-72 and currently holds a com-
mission in the U. S. Naval Reserve.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RIcHARD C. Bur-
ROUGHS, a son, Richard Chamberloine Jr.,
on April 10, 1976. Burroughs is vice presi-
dent of Harvey Lindsay and Co., a commer-
cial real estate company in Norfolk, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. LEWIS, a
daughter, Brooke Corling, on Feb. 27, 1976.
The young lady joins an older sister. Lewis
is a partner in the Warrenton, Va., law firm
of Tiffany, Tiffany, and Lewis.

30

JoHN R. CRIGLER, a consulting statistician at
the Naval Surface Weapons Center in Dahl-
gren, Va., is teaching statistics courses as an
adjunct professor through V.P.I. as part of
an employee development program.

After graduating from the University of
Pittsburgh School of Law, FRANK A. JACKSON
is associated with the Security National
Bank & Trust Co. in Wheeling, W. Va.

WILLIAM K. (BILL) McDavip is half-owner
and head guide for a resort area at Jackson’s
Hole in Jackson, Wyo. His firm, ‘Teton
World Travel, manages a resort area which
includes a whitewater or scenic float trip
on the Snake River and a wilderness ranch
for hiking, fishing, and horseback riding.

GEOFFREY L. STONE, assistant administrator
at the Washington Hospital Center, Wash-
ington, D. C., has been advanced to mem-
bership in the American College of Hospital
Administrators, which is a_ professional
Society offering personal membership to
qualified candidates in the field of health
service administration. Stone entered George
Washington University’s M.A. program in
health care administration in 1969 and serv-
ed as an administrative resident at Washing-
ton Hospital Center from 1971 to 1973. He
was appointed assistant administrator in
1973. Stone and his wife Virginia have one
daughter. The family resides in Arlington.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. REINHARD W. FISCHER,
a daughter, Margaret Cary, on Feb. 26, 1976.
Fischer is associate corporate counsel with
Southwest Forest Industries, Inc., and is head-
quartered in Phoenix, Ariz.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MARK MARION HEAT-
WOLE, a daughter, Mary Phyllis, on Sept. 21,
1976. The family lives in Lake Forest, Il.
Heatwole is a practicing attorney in Chicago.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. THOMAS NEWMAN, a
son, Stewart Thomas, on Aug. 12, 1976. The
family lives in North Miami, Fla.

JorceE E. Estrapa, after working for Sun
Oil Co. in Peru, Bolivia, and Kenya as a
geographical supervisor, is with Western
Geographical Co. of America as a general
manager and is located in Buenos Aires,
Argentina.

Since leaving the Army in 1974, RICHARD
E. KRAMER has continued his interest in the
theater. He has attended classes at The
American Academy of Dramatic Arts and
the Herbert Berghof Studio in New York.

Currently, Kramer is completing an M.F.A.
degree at Rutgers University where he is a
teaching assistant. In September 1976, he
appeared in the off-Broadway production,
The Ugly Duckling.

Dr. BRITTAIN MCJUNKIN, a gastroenterologist,
is quoted in a recent issue of the Journal
of the American Medical Association con-
cerning the lethal consequences of excess
consumption of acetaminophen. McJunkin is
currently a fellow at Montefiore Hospital
in Pittsburg, Pa.

Dr. NicHoLas H. SHEA has been appointed
director of emergency medicine at King’s
Daughters Hospital in Martinsburg, W.Va.
His practice will be limited to the emer-
gency room. Shea previously served as emer-
gency physician at the Lakeshore Hospital
in Lake City, Fla. After receiving his M.D.
degree from Georgetown University, Shea
completed a general surgery internship at
the University of Iowa and a year of resi-
dency in orthopedics at the University of
Florida.

PETER M. VANDINE has been elected assistant
vice president of Mercantile Safe Deposit
and Trust Co., where he is engaged in
estate planning and business development
in Bethesda, Md. He and his wife Becki have
one daughter, Amy. The family lives in
Vienna, Va.

DoNALD B. MCFALL (See 1964.)

HuBERT H. YOUNG Jr. (See 1967.)

1970

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, J. DONALD CHILDRESS,
a son, Jack Donald Jr., on May 7, 1976.
Childress is associated with Trammell Crow
Co., a real estate development company and
the family lives in Cherry Hill, NJ.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL R. MurpuHy,
a son, Michael Brendan, on Sept. 14, 1976.
The family lives in Atlanta, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. TOM ROBINETT, a
son, Richard Graham, on Aug. 10, 1976. The
young man joins an older brother and the
family lives in Farmville, Va., where Robi-
nett is practicing law.

After graduation from the University of
South Carolina Medical School in 1975, Dr.
W. JoHN Bayarp interned at the University
of Georgia in Augusta for one year. He
was married June 19, 1976, to Ruth Sallenger
of Charleston, S.C., and is now serving with
the U.S. Army for two years.

MIcHAEL M. COoLe recently completed all
course work toward the Ph.D. degree in
clinical psychology at North Carolina State
University. On Sept. 1, Cole began a clinical
psychology internship at the Counseling-
Psychological Services Center, University of
Texas at Austin.

CHRISTOPHER D. COURSEN, an attorney in
Washington, D.C., has recently joined the
Marmet Professional Corp.

CHARLES ‘TI’. GARTEN JR. is in Tennessee where
he is a research associate in the environ-
mental sciences division of Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory.

CLIFFORD H. KERN has been appointed an
instructor in zoology at DePauw University.
Kern received an M.A. degree from Indiana
University in 1973 and expects to get his
doctorate from Indiana this year.

Bruce R. MCQUEEN and his wife Elaine have
been traveling in Central and South America
after his release from the Army in October
1975 with the rank of captain.

CLINT PALMER is working on an M.F.A. in
film production at the University of South-
ern California in Los Angeles. His wife, the
former Karen Newman, is writing her Ph.D.
dissertation in comparative literature and is
an instructor at the University of California
at Berkley.

197]

MARRIAGE: JouHN L. (PAT) SULLIVAN and
Mary Virginia Ruddock, on July 2, 1976, in
Cleveland, Ohio. Among the wedding party
were: William A. Gatlin III, ’71, Wendell
Montgomery Smith, ’71, and Charles L.
Henry III, ’73. Sullivan received an M.B.A.
from The Wharton School in June.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS O. BEAR, a
son, ‘Thomas Winfrey Oliver, on Aug. 30,
1976. The young man joins two older sisters
and the family lives in Northport, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK C, BROOKS Jpr.,
a son, Robert A., on May 24, 1976. Brooks
is in New York City with Morgan Guaranty
Trust Co. as an assistant vice president. ‘The
family lives in Greenwich, Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES MINER
HARRELL, a son, Charles Miner Jr., on Feb.
11, 1976. After graduation from Emory
University Law School in 1974, Harrell
became a practicing attorney in Pensacola,
Fla.

Joun D. CopEeNnHAVER Jr., is attending Fuller
Theological Seminary in Pasadena, Calif.,
where he is completing his master’s of di-
vinity degree.

CLARK B. LEUTZE ended his tour of active
duty as a Naval flight officer and returned
to State University of New York at Albany,
where he completed an M.A. in history and
is now working towards an M.B.A. He is
a mission commander aboard a P-3 patrol
aircraft with the reserve patrol squadron 64.
His wife Pam is employed by the Home
Savings Bank in Guilderland, N.Y.

KENELM L. SHIRK III, formerly the law clerk
to the Commonwealth Court of Pennsylvania,
is now associated with the law firm of
Shirk, Reist & Buckwalter in Lancaster, Pa.

Upon graduation, CHARLES W. Brown Il
traveled for about six months and then
began working on a framing crew as a Car-
penter building houses. After three months,
he was hired as an assistant construction
superintendent for the John Crosland and
Co. in Charlotte, N. C. A year later he was
made warranty service manager for the same
company. He then became a construction
manager for Century Home Builders in
Charlotte, building large custom homes in
North and South Carolina. Last April after
obtaining his contractor’s and real estate li-
censes in North and South Carolina, Brown
formed Bishop Builders Inc., which is now
involved in home construction in the two
Carolinas.

REINHARD W. FISCHER (See 1969.)
CHARLES C. LEwis (See 1968.)

PETER M. VANDINE (See 1969.)

1972

MARRIAGE: PETER MARLEY SOMERVILLE and
Mary Paige Temple on Aug. 7, 1976, in
Jarratt, Va. Among the wedding party were:
William Garwood Crister Clore, ’72, Charles
James Harland Jr., ‘72, and Robert C.
Walker Jr., "72. Also in attendance were:
Juan Cassell, "72, Paine Hindsley, °72, Rich-
ard Pifer, ’°72, William Ballard Jr., ’73, and
Christopher Giragosian, 73. The couple re-
sides in Columbus, Mo., where Somerville
is a student at the University of Missouri
School of Law.

MARRIAGE: J. Craic Kerr and Darlene
Dixon on April 10, 1976, in Syracuse, N.Y.
Kerr is a partner in the law firm of Nott-

ingham, Paltz, Cerio and Engel in Syra-
cuse.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES ABELE JR., a
son, James Augustus III, on July 3, 1976.
The family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT P. MCWHOoR-
TER, a son, Thomas Wade, on Oct. 4 ,1976.
The family lives in Montgomery, Ala., where
McWhorter is a director of the Y.M.C.A.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. WHITE, a
son, Charles L. Jr., on Feb. 24, 1976. White
is an assistant trust officer with Society Na-
tional Bank of Cleveland, Ohio, specializing
in personal trust administration.

Dr. C. JAMES HARLAND JR. graduated from
the Medical College of Virginia School of
Dentistry in May 1976. He is stationed as a
dental officer at the Navy training center in
Orlando, Fla.

ROBERT C, JORDAN, formerly with Burroughs
Corp., joined the J. L. Hammett Co. of
Braintree, Mass., as manager of the bid and
contract department of the Southern Re-
gional Branch. He and his wife Louise live
in Lynchburg, Va.

JEFFREY O’DELL has recently completed in-
ventories of early architecture and archaeo-
logical sites for the city of Petersburg and
Henrico County. The reports are to be
used in historic preservation efforts by both
private and governmental groups. His next
architectural survey will take him to Ches-
terfield County.

Dr. STEVEN J. Ory has started medical train-
ing at the Mayo Graduate School of Medi-
cine which is part of the division of educa-
tion of the Mayo Foundation, a non-profit
organization which owns and operates the
Mayo Clinic. It is one of the largest centers
for graduate medical education in the world.

FRED PAONE, who holds the J.D. degree from
the University of Baltimore School of Law,
has recently completed an appointment as
law clerk to Judge Matthew S. Evans, chief
judge for Maryland’s 5th Judicial Circuit.
Paone is presently with the State Attorney's
office for Anne Arundel County.

EVERETT TUCKER III, a certified public ac-
countant has become the argicultural busi-
ness officer for the Commercial National
Bank of Little Rock, Ark., and will have re-
sponsibilities as liaison officer between the
agricultural customers and the departments
of the bank that offer specialized services.
The newly formed department will pro-

31

Class Notes

vide special financial services to farmers and
agricultural industrial management. Tuck-
er has an M.A. in business administration
from the University of Arkansas at Fayette-
ville. He is a member of the American In-
stitute and the Arkansas Society of Certified
Public Accountants. Tucker has been a com-
mittee chairman for major projects of the
Arkansas Heart Association, the Little Rock
Jaycees and the American Cancer Society.
He is on the major sports attractions com-
mittee of the Little Rock Chamber of Com-
merce and is a member of the Arkansas Arts
Center.

MARK MARION HEATWOLE (See 1969.)

1973

MARRIAGE: 'T. HALLER JACKSON and Sue
Rebecca McConnell, on July 31, 1976. The
couple lives in Shreveport, La., where Jack-
son is clerk for Judge Ben C. Dawkins Jr.
of the U. S. District Court.

MARRIAGE: MARSHALL P. WASHBURN and
Rebecca Ann Marsh, on Oct. 2, in Pitts-
burgh, Pa. Classmates attending were Tim
Haley, Peter Grover, Hatton Smith, Brandon
Herbert, Paul McClure, Bill Nickel, Bar-
clay Armstrong, Jimmy Farrar and Bill Mer-
rill. Washburn is employed with Derring
Milliken and the couple lives in Spartan-
burg, S. C.

JOHN R. Bacsy, formerly with the state gov-
ernment in Frankfort, Ky., is now in the
private practice of law in Lexington, Ky.

JAMEs H. Beaty II will graduate from the
University of Tennessee Medical School in
Memphis in December 1976 and expects to
begin a surgery internship at the Baptist
Memorial Hospital there in January.

DouGLAs A. FORSYTH, who graduated from
the University of Missouri Law School in
May, is now a member of the Missouri Bar
and employed as assistant circuit attorney for
St. Louis.

BRIAN E. RICHARDSON, who holds an M.A.
degree in communications from the Univer-
sity of Florida, is serving as community serv-
ices coordinator with the Easter Seal Re-
habilitation Center in Tallahassee, Fla.

JOHN C. FULLERTON III is in his fourth year
of medical school at the University of Vir-
ginia. This summer he completed a six-week
tour of active duty at the Letterman Army
Medical Center in San Francisco, where he
rotated between the obstetrics and gynecol-
ogy service.

JrEFFREY T. Twarpy (See 1967.)
32

1974

MARRIAGE: JAMEs C. FITTER Jr. and Gail
Bloom on June 26, 1976, in St. Louis, Mo.
Among the wedding party were Mr. and Mrs.
Dennis Gilchrist, 74, W. Bradney Griffin,
‘74, Mr. and Mrs. Rex Lamb III, 74, and
Phillip H. Milner Jr., 73. Fitter is an attor-
ney in Kansas City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JoHN F. HANZEL, a
daughter, Patricia Holly, on July 19, 1976.
Hanzel is an attorney with the Pittston Co.
Coal Group in Lebanon, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE YOUNG, a
son, Adrian Lawrence, on Aug. 9, 1976. The
family lives in York, Pa., where Young is a
practicing attorney.

LAWRENCE V. YOUNG is practicing law with
the firm of Laucks & Monroe in York, Pa.

Davin V. FINNELL holds the rank of first
lieutenant at the Fifth Army Headquarters
at Fort Sam Houston in San Antonio. He is
also the substitute organist at St. David’s
Episcopal Church.

 

Chapter Presidents

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70, Smith,
Robinson & Vinyard, 117 W. Main St.,
Abingdon, Va. 24210

Arkansas—William C. Norman, Jr., ’56, P. O.
Drawer 597, Crossett, Ark. 71635

Atlanta—William C. Tyler, ’69, C&S Mortgage
Company, P.O. Box 4065, Atlanta, Ga. 30302

Augusta-Rockingham—William B. Gunn, ’42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801

Baltimore—John H. West III, ’65, 6213 Moss-
way, Baltimore, Md. 21212

Birmingham—Richard S. Abernethy, ’72,
Southern Rubber Co., Inc.. 917 6th Ave., P.O.
Box 10762, Birmingham, Ala. 35202

Charleston—Louie A, Paterno, Jr., °65, 1401
Somerlayton Road, Charleston, W. Va. 25314

Charlotte—W. Joseph Dozier, ’70, 1753 Mary-
land Ave., Charlotte, N.C, 28209

Chattanooga—David M. Berlinghof, ’55, Car-
gill, P.O. Box 4227, Chattanooga, Tenn.
37405

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, III, ’62, One First
National Plaza, Rm. 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60603

Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair
Inc., 1228 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—Dr. George Smith, ’56,
Rt, 5, Box 459, Frederick, Md. 21701

Dallas—Edward G. Woodson, Jr., ’60, Shind-
ter-Cummins, Inc., 3131 Turtle Creek Blvd..
Suite 404, Dallas. Texas 75219

Eastern North Carolina—James T. Hedrick,
"D0, Suite 423, ne Eleven Coraran St.,

 

O

Durham, N.C. 27702

Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
68, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley, Jr., ’58, Law,
Snakard, Brown and Gambill, Fort Worth
National Bk. Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102

Gulf Stream—A. J. Barranco, ’64, Suite 1004
Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,
Fla. 33130

Houston—William B. Ogilvie, Jr., °’64, 7519
Del Monte, Houston, Texas 77042

Jacksonville—Harry M. Wilson, ’69, 1306
Avondale Ave., Jacksonville, Fla. 32205

Kansas City—William N. Leedy, ’49, 814
Westover Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113

Louisville—Henry H. Knight, II. ’63, John-
ston, Brown, Burnett and Knight. Inc., 425
South 5th Street, Louisville, Ky. 40202

Lynchburg—George H. Fralin, Jr., ’57, Wil-
liams, Martin, Taylor & Fralin, CoOpera-
tive & Loan Bldg., Church St., Lynchburg,
Va, 24504

Mid-South—Jerome Turner, ’64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis, Tenn. 38117 |

Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill, Jr., ’67,
Braid Electric Co., 1100 Demonbreun Street,
Nashville, Tenn. 37219

Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr., ’64, 204 Walsh-
wood, Mobile, Ala. 36604

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, ’33, 2134 Rose-

mont Drive, Montgomery, Ala. 36111

New England—John P. Mello, ’72, 37 Brookley
Rd., Boston, Mass, 02130

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, ’68, 118
Central Park Place, New Orleans, La. 70124

New York—Jaroslav A. Drabek, ’53, 8 Wendth
Avenue, Larchmont, N.Y. 10538

Norfolk—David T. Shufflebarger, ’69, 1115
Manchester Ave., Norfok, Va. 23508

Northern California—Emmett W. MacCorkle,
Jr., °26, 1100 Sharon Park Drive No. 25,
Menlo Park, Calif. 94025

Palm Beach-Fort lLauderdale—Nicholas S.
Smith, ’63, 2910 Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm
Beach, Fla. 33401

Palmetto—Philip G. Grose, Jr., ’60, Executive
Assistant for Governmental Relations, Office
of the President, University of South Caro-
lina, Columbia, S.C. 29208

Peninsula—Ben Williams, Esq., ’71, 23 Brook-
field Dr., Hampton, Va. 23666

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’'63, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—John E, Kelly, III, ’66A, 69L,
1208 Panama St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19107

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, ’73, Wachovia
Bank & Trust Co., Loan Administration,
Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104

Richmond—Jesse F. Williams, III, ’65, P.O.
Box 305, Richmond, Va. 23202
Roanoke—William L. Andrews III, ’72, 430

Canterbury La., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree, III, ’'59, P.O.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450
San Antonio—Ralph E. Lehr, Jr., ’73, Peat

Marwick Mitchell & Co..900 National Bank
of Commerce Bldg., San Antonio, Texas 78205

St. Louis—Andrew W. Baur, ’67, 20 Foxboro,
St. Louis, Mo. 63124

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, ‘41, P.O. Drawer 4106, Station B,
Anderson, S.C. 29621 7

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
°58, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Thomas P. Winborne, ’52,
3510 Arnold Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner, Jr.,
*54A, ’60L, Vansant & Millner, Drawer 110,
Chatham, Va. 24531

Tri States—Charles F. Bagley, III, ’69, Camp-
bell, Woods. Bagley. Emerson, McNeer &
Herndon, P.O. Box 1835, Huntington, W.Va.
24719

Tulsa—Dan W. Higgins, Jr., ’69, Merrill
Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith, 1200 First
National Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. 74103

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507
Cumberland Street. Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—John M. Zamoiski, ’74, Mid-
Atlantic Swensen’s, 7649 Old Georgetown
Rd., Bethesda, Md. 20014

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, ’62, 3010
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Greenville, Wilmington, Del. 19807

W. LEwis HANNAH Jr., a former employee of
the North Carolina National Bank, had
an active role in the Atlanta Democratic
headquarters with the Jimmy Carter cam-
paign.

ROBERT E. JOHNSON Jr., after receiving his
M.B.A. from Vanderbilt University in May, is
now employed by Ford Motor Co. as a fi-
nancial analyst. He lives in Farmington Hills,
Mich.

ERNEST J. (SKIP) LICHTFUSsS JR. is pursuing a
masters program at the University of Dela-
ware in the educational leadership program.
He is the assistant lacrosse coach. He and
his wife reside in Newark, Del.

ROLF PIRANIAN has returned to Washington
and Lee as varsity soccer coach. For the past
two years, Piranian has been teaching high
school and coaching soccer in Jacksonville,
Fla.

WILLIAM LEE WARBURTON is located in Lex-
ington where he is engaged in the import
of batik and tapestries from Java, Indonesia.
He also gives exhibitions and slide presenta-
tions at various Virginia colleges on the
subject of batik.

1975
MARRIAGE: Gravy C. FRANK Jr. and Lila
Lamb Pryor, on Sept. 25, 1976, in Decatur,
Ala. Frank is an attorney with the firm of
Boothe, Prichard and Dudley of Fairfax, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. TERRENCE G. JACK-
SON, a son, Colin Wood, on March 29, 1976.
Jackson is an attorney with the general
counsel’s office of the U.S. Dept. of Agricul-
ture. The family lives in Alexandria, Va.

PAUL MCELVENN FLEMING has been named
director of public information at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond. Fleming
was formerly associated with the Martin
Agency, Inc., and The New Community
School. He will continue as special consul-
tant to the Virginia Ballet Theatre.

ENs. KARL E, KLINGER, USNR, has completed
flight training and been designated a naval
flight officer in Pensacola, Fla. He is now
stationed at NAS Oceana in Virginia Beach
where he will serve as a bombardier/naviga-
tor aboard the A-6E intruder all-weather at-
tack aircraft.

ANTHONY (Tony) M. Murray has had two
one-man shows this year at the Botetourt-
Rockbridge Regional Library. He displayed

pen and ink drawings, acrylic and water-
color paintings of the Rockbridge country-
side.

J. Scott NELSON is teaching earth science at
the William Monroe High School in Stan-
ardsville, Va.

FRANK L. (BUz) WALTERS JR. is assistant to
the president for Ferguson Enterprises, Inc.,
of Newport News, Va. Ferguson Enterprises
is a wholesale pipe, valve, and fitting distri-
butor.

Tom Rosinett (See 1970.)

1976

MARRIAGE: G. DONALD BRYANT and Sally
Matthews, on Aug. 7, 1976, in Marion, Va.
The Bryants are in Tallahassee where Bryant
is attending graduate business school at
Florida State University.

MARRIAGE: Bruce D. DUNNAN and Wendy
Wagner, on July 10, 1976, in Tacoma,
Wash. Among the groomsmen were: Paul B.
Cromelin III, 76, H. Sprague Eustis, ’76,
Stephen Scully, ’76, Edward De Saussure, ’78,
and Richard D. Wagner, ’78. Also attending
was Christopher Scully, ’75. The couple will
live in Chapel Hill, N. C., where Dunnan is
pursuing an M.B.A. at the University of
North Carolina.

MARRIAGE: GREGORY W. JOHNSON and
Mary Carolyn Jones, on June 5, 1976, in
Baltimore, Md. Peter Cavalier, ’76, was best
man and James Doyle III, ’76, was in the
wedding party. Also attending the cere-
mony were classmates Ted Merrick, James
Pearson, James Gould, David Denny, David
Knack, Andy Harvin, and James A. Mercy.
Jay Denny, ’73, and John Uhl, ’75, also at-
tended. Johnson is enrolled in the graduate
school of business at Indiana University.

MARRIAGE: JOHN G. PopGajNy and Laura
Jean Fusco, on Aug. 7, 1976, in Chester, Pa.
Musicians at the ceremony were Stephen
Hand, 77, and Don Berlin, ’°77. Among the
guests were Skip Lichtfuss, 74, Jim Becker,
‘75, Greg Croghan, ’75, Jeff Baum, ’76, Jeff
Baker, °76, Gary Fitzgerald, ’76, Paul Ma-
loney, ’°76, Pat Dennis, ‘77, Mike Missal, ’78,
Bob Flint, 77, Bob Forlenza, ’78, Jim Ber-
lin, °79, Dave Leunig, 79, Mike Wenke, ’79,
and Stephanie Maxson, exchange student
"75-76.

Davin W. DENNY is pursuing graduate studies
in anthropology at the University of Ten-
nessee.

 

 

In Memoriam

 

 

1906

A portrait of JOHN W. EGGLESTON, retired
chief justice of the Virginia Supreme Court
who died May 18, 1976, was unveiled in the
Court’s Richmond Chambers in October
1976. Former Governor Colgate Darden Jr.,
presided at the unveiling and paid tribute to
Justice Eggleston. During his remarks, Dar-
den observed that Eggleston was among
“the State Justices who in character, learn-
ing, and dedication to the administration
of justice stood side by side with the ablest
members of the Supreme Court of the
United States.” Several other high-ranking
officials in Virginia government made tri-
butes to Eggleston. He is remembered as
standing alone in 1963 when he refused, in
School Board vs. Griffin, to sanction the clos-
ing of public schools in Prince Edward
County. After retiring from the Court in
June 1969, Eggleston continued to work in
his office in Norfolk City Hall on the Court’s
business. He died toward the end of his

90th year.
1908

ROBERT SAMUEL KEEBLER, a retired govern-
ment attorney who had participated in some
of the most publicized legal cases of the cen-
tury, including the famous Scopes trial in
Tennessee, died Sept. 1, 1976, in Silver
Springs, Md. After the Scopes trial, Keebler,
as a special attorney for the American Civil
Liberties Union, took part in several trials
involving labor leaders and alleged radicals.
In 1934, after the establishment of the Na-
tional Recovery Administration (NRA), Keeb-
ler was asked to assist in the review board’s
hearings. Once the review board’s work was
concluded, he joined the legal staff of NRA.
In 1938, he joined the Public Utilities Divi-
sion (later the Corporate Regulation Divi-
sion) of the Securities and Exchange Com-
mission as its chief trial attorney. During
World War II Keebler was on the legal staff
of the Office of Price Administration. He
retired in 1959. Keebler was a member of
the National Association of Retired Govern-
ment Employees.

192]

M. BisHop ALEXANDER, former correspondent
with International News, a reporter with the
Charleston, S.C., News and Courier and a
staff editor with The Associated Press, died
in October 1976. Alexander founded the Ad-

33

In Memoriam

 

vertising Service Agency in 1931 and served
as its president for many years. He was a
veteran of World War II.

WILLIAM W. LYNN Jr. of Lynchburg, Va.,
vice president of the Yellow Cab Co. and
former president of the old Hotel Carroll,
died May 31, 1976. A native of Lynchburg,
Lynn was vice president of the Southern
Passenger Motor Lines and a former vice
president of the Old Lynchburg Ramp Ga-
rage when he became associated with the
Hotel Carroll, which was owned and operat-
ed by his family. Lynn had served as a direc-
tor of the American Hotel Association and
as a director and secretary/treasurer of the
Southern Hotel Association. He also had serv-
ed as treasurer, vice president and president
of the Virginia Hotel Association. In 1960
he was a member of the Sweet Briar College
Parents Advisory Board. Lynn was a retired
director of First and Merchants National
Bank and a former deacon and elder of the
First Presbyterian Church.

EVERETT W. CUMMINGS, a longtime resident
and businessman of Winston-Salem, N. C.,
died June 5, 1976, after a short illness. Since
1950 he was owner and operator of the
E. W. Cummings Associates Sales, Inc., a
manufacturers’ representative firm specializ-
ing in cast iron foundry products, building
supplies and drainage and revent systems.
Before organizing E. W. Cummings Associ-
ates, he was in flour and milling products
sales and was associated with Ralston-Purina
Co., Ubiko Milling Co. and Pilot Milling
Co.

1924

JOHN ANDERSON DUPRE, retired founder and
president of the John A. DuPre Cotton Co.
of Memphis, Tenn., died May 29, 1976. DuPre
was a former president of the Memphis Cot-
ton Exchange. Before coming to Memphis,
he worked for a time as North Mississippi
representative for Anderson-Clayton Cotton
Co. An avid sportsman, he bred bird dogs
and was active in the Memphis Amateur
Field Trials Association. He was a deacon
of the Idlewild Presbyterian Church in
Memphis.

EDWARD DOUGLAS GIBSON, a retired business-
man and production coordinator for the
Mansfield Playhouse’s “1976 Spotlight Re-
vue,” died in Mansfield, Ohio, Aug. 5, 1976.
Gibson was involved in amateur theater ac-
tivity for 41 years. For many years he operat-
ed the Studebaker auto agency in Mansfield
and also operated public parking lots.

34

1925

JOHN CAMPBELL ANDERSON, a retired branch
manager and former director of Brown &
Williamson ‘Tobacco Corp., died Sept. 20,
1976, in Petersburg, Va. Anderson joined
Brown & Williamson in 1926 after working
for the First & National Bank of Bristol,
Tenn. He moved to Petersburg in 1934 from
the Louisville, Ky., office of Brown & Wil-
liamson. Anderson was a past president of
the Chamber of Commerce and a past chair-
man of the redevelopment and housing au-
thority. He was a member of the Peters-
burg Hospital Authority, the advisory board
of F&M National Bank, and a former mem-
ber of the board of visitors of Virginia State
College.

DAvis CRITTENDEN, a distinguished engineer,
historian, and author, died July 21, 1976 in
Fall River, Mass. Crittenden pursued a life
long interest in marine lore, and wrote the
book, Captain Danger, a biography of his
grandfather who was a celebrated Massa-
chusetts skipper. A mechanical design engi-
neer by profession, Crittenden worked at
one time with his cousin, Clifford Holland,
on the design and construction of the Hol-
land Tunnel in New York City. An historian
of acknowledged scope, he specialized in
research on American steamships, and in par-
ticular, the Fall River Line.

1930

JAMEs M. Counrtiss, a cattle farmer and vice
president of Delta State Bank at Elaine,
Ark., died at his farm in Rose Bud on Sept.
14, 1976. A director of Helena Cotton Oil
Co., Countiss was a director and former presi-
dent of Farmers Oil and Supply Co. and a
director of the Cotton Belt Drainage District.
He was a former president of the Arkansas
Hereford Association.

1931

JOHN RANDOLPH ‘TUCKER ALFORD, a native of
Lexington, Va., and for many years a pro-
minent businessman in Chicago, died July
24, 1976, in Silver City, N. Mex., Alford’s
grandfather was John Randolph ‘Tucker,
longtime dean of the Washington and Lee
Law School. Alford was admitted to the bar
in 1933 and practiced law in Phoenix, Ariz.,
for several years. He was also president of
the First Management Corp., a real estate
and mortgage loan concern, in Chicago. In
1949, Alford and his family moved to Mary-
land where he had a dairy farm. At one time,
he operated the Lake Shore Hotel in Cleve-
land, Ohio. Alford retired in 1964 and mov-
ed to New Mexico.

1939

ALAN BuxTON Hoses, a lawyer and retired
corporation executive, died Sept. 23, 1976,
in Sturbridge, Mass. Hobbes received a J.D.
degree from George Washington Universjty
in 1947, and the L.L.M. degree from GW in
1950. He joined the staff of the Federal
Trade Commission in 1948, becoming As-
sistant General Counsel for the Appeals in
1959. Hobbes was admitted to argue before
the United States Supreme Court. He joined
American Optical Corp. in 1961, and was
General Counsel and Secretary of AO from
1967 until his retirement in 1975. He was a
director of ‘Todd-AO Corp. and Riley Stoker
Corp. He served as captain in the USMCR
in World War II, was wounded at Guadal-
canal and received the Purple Heart. He was
past president of the D. C. Society and
president and national trustee of the Sons
of the American Revolution.

RALPH WYATT MILLs, a former FBI agent,
died at his Fort Myers, Fla., home on July
13, 1976. Mills had been prominent in bank-
ing circles in Florida for many years. He was
last associated as trust officer with the Edi-
son National Bank of Ft. Myers, Fla.

Dr. W. PASCHAL REEVES, former associate
provost of the University of Georgia and a
professor in the department of English, died
July 16, 1976 in an Atlanta hospital. Reeves
joined the faculty at the University of
Georgia in 1964, becoming an associate pro-
fessor in 1966 and a full professor in 1969.
He was from 1966 to 1969 the associ-
ate director of graduate studies in the Eng-
lish department. Reeves was the author of
five books on Thomas Wolfe and, in addi-
tion, wrote numerous articles and reviews on
American literature. He was a veteran of
the U.S. Army and was active in many local
civic organizations,

1942

W. BRADFORD DUNSON, owner of Dunson Co.,
a textile supply house in Greenville, S.C.,
died Sept. 14, 1976. Dunson was a prominent
executive in the textile mills supply business
and a textile manufacturer representative.
He was a veteran of World War II, a mem-
ber of the Rotary Club and a communicant
of Christ Episcopal Church.

Dr. RosBert W. HAINEs, an ophthalmologist of
West Hartford, Conn., died Sept. 11, 1976.
He was a member of the American Academy
of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology. He

was also a member of. the Johns Hopkins
Medical and Surgical Association. Haines was
on the staff of the St. Francis Hospital and
the St. Mary’s Home in Hartford.

1943

Dr. JAMES MORRISON HUTCHESON JR., an as-
sociate medical director of the Life Insurance
Co. of Virginia, died Aug. 3, 1976. Hutche-
son joined Life of Virginia in 1958 as a part-
time assistant medical director. He joined
the staff on a full-time basis in 1963 and was
named an associate director in 1964. Hutche-
son took his training at hospitals in Galves-
ton, Texas, and Boston. He returned to
Richmond in 1955 and joined in a practice
with his father. He was a member of the
American Medical Association, the Medical
Society of Virginia, the Richmond Academy
of Medicine and the Association of Life In-
surance Medical Directors.

EDMUND DANIEL WELLS JR., an attorney in
Bluefield, W. Va., died Aug. 1, 1976. Wells
served as a class agent for the Washington
and Lee Alumni Fund for many years. He
was a member of the West Virginia legisla-
ture from 1959 to 1962.

1948

EpMUND D. WELLs Jr. (See 1943.)

1949

PAUL BOWEN CROMELIN JR., a supervisor in
the Potomac Electric Companies Consumer
Services Group, died Aug. 22, 1976. Before
attending Washington and Lee, Cromelin
served as a tail gunner on B-29 bombers in
the Army Air Force during World War II
in the Pacific theater. Following graduation,
he was an investment broker and an em-
ployee of Griffith Consumers Co. Following
those jobs, he worked for 11 years as an
executive with the former Electric Institute
of Washington, an organization of manu-
facturers and dealers in electrical equip-
ment. Cromelin worked for the Potomac
Electric Power Co. for the last four years. A
32nd degree Mason, he was a member of
Temple Noyes Cathedral Lodge No. 28 and
Almas Temple. Cromelin was a member of
the Chevy Chase Club and active in the
Metropolitan Memorial United Methodist
Church.

 

Help us round up
these lost alumni

The Alumni Office does not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.

Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,
send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

William E. Adcock, ’76
Edward H. Bradbury, ’66
Percy A. Calkins, ’17
Joseph E. Callaway Jr., ’23
Carlos R. Callejas, ’27
James R. Camm, ’43
Robert A. Cammack, ’42
William T. Camp Sr., ’34
Alexander D. Campbell, ’35
John B. Campbell, *40
Robert F. Campbell, ’33
Carl C. Carey, ’70
Gordon W. Carlson, ’42
Irwin P. Carlson, 754
Walter C. Carlton Jr., *40
Donald E. Carmody, ’37
Herve D. Carr, ’29
Russell Carr, 712

Cleland N. Carter, ’29
Mel I. Cartwright, ’70
Craig A. Castleman, ’74
Eric A. Catmur Jr., ’67
Howard D. Cecill, 731
Sterling H. Chadwick, ’74
Rankin Chambers, ’32
Stephen F. Chambers, °33
George W. Champe, ’36
John T. Chandler, ’49
William H. Chandler, ’05
Michael E. Chaney, ’57
Edward C. Chapman, ’70
George R. Charles Jr., ’58
Jackson K. Cheatham, ’72
John M. Cheatham Jr., 63
John M. Cherrybone, 59
Homer E. Chevyrier, ’33
Lenox C. Chew, ’11
William G. Clancy, ’30
Frederic N. Clark, ’40
Christian H. Clarke, ’65
John H. Clarke, °47
David B. Clarkson, ’33
Lucius D. Clay III, ’71
Paul E. Clayton, ’59L
John E. Clegg, ’49
Matthew W. Cliett, 71
Forrest W. Cobb, ’23
Kenneth R. Cobb Jr., ‘14
Richard W. Cocke, ’68
Donald S. Cohen, ’55L
Albert N. Cole Jr., ’39
Abe L. Colinsky, °35
James H. Coll, ’32
Archibald D. Collins, ’19
Lawrence M. Collins, 710
Ragan T. Collins, ’24

William P. Collins, ’30
John A. Collison, ‘31
Robert A. Connaughton, 751
George L. Conner, 731
Barnum Coolidge, ’37
Bruce P. Cooper, °66
Harry R. Cooper, ’27
John W. Corfield, ’28
Clifton F. Corpening, ’31
Gerald E. Corry, ’23
John T. Corry, ’67L
Calvin R. Couch, 758
Gerald H. Coulson, ’52L
Francis V. Covucci, ’66
George E. Cowan Jr., ’36
Layion Cox, '38

Samuel N. Craddock, ’48L
Russell L. Craft, °17
Harold C. Craig Jr., ’58L
Sharpe Craig, “11L
Ulrich E. Craig, ’26
Martin D. Cramoy, ’38
James B. Crane, ’31
Charles G. Crawford, 58
Stewart L. Crebs, ’01
John B. Crewe, ’28
Roger W. Crews, ’63
Douglas S. Critz, *17
Galley B. Critzer, °50
Carl E. Crockett, ’25
Roy C. Cromer, ’04L
William L. Cromley, ’64
Phillip L. W. Cromwell, ’39
Edward C. Crook, 42
Noel A. Cropp, ’03
John G. Crosland Jr., ’30
Charles F. Cross, ’23
John C. Crough, ’23
James F. Crowder, ’28
John D. Crowl, ’33
Herbert B. Crowley, ’30
David W. Cummings, 754
Waddy G. Currin, ’51
James W. O. Curtis, °37
Raymond W. Curtis, ’21
William J. Dalzell, ’57
Charles L. Dana, ’57
John L. Daniel, ’58L
John K. Daughtrey Jr., ’65
Ira E. Davenport, ’11
Peter F. Davidson, ’72
William A. Davidson, °45
Jeffrey O. Davies, ’73
Exum C. Davis Jr., ’38
Howard W. Davis, ’67
James B. Davis Jr., ’57

James D. Davis, "75

John C. Davis, 53 —
Robert P. Davis, ’59
Charles O. Dawson II, °56
David M. Dawson, 58
William A. Dawson, ’22
Clarence C. Dean, ’23L
Adrien DeBeaumont, ’08
Guy L. Decker, ’28

Dieter Dedeke, 62
Thomas P. Degnon, 759
Walter B. Degree Jr., °55
Ralph E. Deitrich, ’71
Rogelio de la Guardia, °52
Mario de la Ossa, 735
Robert S. Delligatti, 56
Kester W. Denman III, ’68
Alfred G. Dennison, ’34
Steven R. Denton, ’71
Millard A. Derr, ’16
Herman E, Detering III, ’60
David B. Deuel, 61
David T. Dewey, ’58
Ralph Diamond, ’29
Alfred D. Dickerman, ’06
James G. Dickinson, ’70
Andrew B. Dillard, ’49
Luther A. Dillon, 713

F. M. Dingwall, °17
Robin M. Dingwall, ’62
Charles T. Dixon Jr., ’48
Eldridge C. Dixon Jr., 68
Jack J. Doherty, ’42

John A. Doherty Jr., °52
Herbert G. Dollahite Jr., ’32
Mark R. Donald, ’72
Theodore Donaldson, °40
Frank T. Dotson, ’06
Marshall F. Dotson, ’18
Ray A. Douglas, ’05
Robert H. Douglas, ’31
Walter R. Douglas, 34
Leon F. Douglass III, 750
James R. Dowell, ’28
William H. Dowling Jr., ’42
Carrol W. Downey, ’63
Jan Drabek, °57

Louis Drezek, *40

Edward O. Driscoll, ’69
James D. Driver, ’24
Jettie Driver, °35

William T. Duane, ’05
Mathew H. Duffy Jr., °36
John M. Duhe Jr., 755
Allen C. Dukes, ’69
Charles H. Duncan Jr., ’34

35

   
 

FIRE OFF
YOUR
NOMINATION
TODAY!

  
   
   

Nominate your candidate
for Distinguished Alumnus

 

Now is the time to nominate your candidate for
a 1977 Distinguished Alumnus Award, the high-
est honor conferred by the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association.

The Distinguished Alumnus Awards program
was initiated in 1974 by the Alumni Board of
Directors with the approval of the University
Board of ‘Trustees. ‘The first years of the program
have been highly acclaimed, and even broader par-
ticipation in the selection process is sought among
alumni this year.

The awards recognize the recipients for extra-
ordinary achievement in their personal and voca-
tional lives. Among the qualities considered are
superlative service to society, exceptional support
of and loyalty to Washington and Lee, outstand-

the honorary degrees bestowed by the University.

An awards committee appointed by the Alumni
Board of Directors screens the nominations, and
the Alumni Board as a whole makes the final se-
lections—not more than three a year. University
President Robert E. R. Huntley and Alumni
Board President Thomas B. Branch III will present
the 1977 awards at the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association in May.

The Alumni Board urges alumni to seize this
Opportunity to nominate for one of these coveted
awards a fellow alumnus whose life and work have
brought distinction to Washington and Lee.

THE DEADLINE FOR NOMINATIONS IS
FEBRUARY I, 1977.

ing character, notable success in a profession or
business, and singular contributions in worthy en-
deavors. ‘The awards program, in fact, supplements

USE THE FORM PROVIDED IN THIS
MAGAZINE TO MAKE YOUR NOMINATION.

 

 

Fiery receives award in special ceremony

A small group of chapter officers and
close friends were on hand Aug. 25 to
honor Benjamin Fiery, ’13, as Bill Wash-
burn, alumni secretary, presented to him
the certificate of recognition and cita-
tion of the Distinguished Alumnus Award
of 1976. Announcement of the award was
made by the Alumni Board of Directors
in May and an article was carried in the
July issue of the Alumni Magazine. Fiery
was unable to attend the spring award
ceremony held at W&L. The small cere-
mony was held in the Newton D. Baker
Conference Room of Fiery’s office in
Cleveland. Fiery is a retired member of
the law firm of Baker, Hostetter and Pa-
terson, which was founded by Newton D.
Baker, ’94, former Secretary of War under
President Wilson. ‘Those alumni sharing
in the brief ceremony were: Dr. John
Battle, ’34, Robert Moore, ’44, James

 

Hoe F. Fiery, 713, holds his Distinguished Alumnus Award certificate flanked
by fellow alumni who joined in honoring him. They are (l-r) James Bonebrake, ’54;
Bonebrake, ’54, Sid Kaplan, ’56, and Ed __ gig Kaplan, 56; Dr. John Battle, 34; Ed Meyers, 61; and Robert Moore, ’44. The

Meyers, ’61. portrait is of Newton D. Baker, 94.

36

Fill in, detach, and mail to:
Awards Committee

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

The deadline for nominations is February 1, 1977

 

NOMINATION FORM FOR THE DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS AWARD

NOTE: Be sure the Nominee:

1. Has been out at least 10 years—his class must be ’66 or earlier.

2. Has not received an Honorary Degree from Washington and Lee University.

3. Is not an employee of the University in any capacity.

4, Is not a member of the University Board of Trustees or the Alumni Board of Directors.

Nominee’s name

Ce

Ca
emer em em meme eee e eee emer ere r ers eee esses oe essere eeeeeeeeseee eer eeeeeeraeer ee eeeeerer eer eeeeEe Deere reeEeeeEreeesesreseereeeseoeeors

CC  )

Deemer e rere reer reese sear eee reee seers see ees ereresr eee reese ss severe seeeser ere ereeesereseeeeesereseresreresesesreseresrereeooe

pee eer ees e eee renee secre see ees eee eee EES SEE EEE ORE EEE EOE OOHRS HOHE EEE EEE ESHER EEE EE HEE HEE EERE HOHE HS OE EHH SHEE EO OER EHO EEE HEHEHE Hee ee ERE HOE HERO HEHE EHO EEE EOE HO eH CORO DEH EE HEHEHE REE EEE EHO HEHE EHO eee OOO EEO e

meme meer e ere eee eter rea eer eee ees eesessreseeeeeseesresreserseseesreeesereereseeeseoesreeneeeesese

PP ee OM

Service to W&L (class agent, alumni activity, student recruitment and referrals, loyalty). Sponsor’s assessment of

nominee’s service to Alma Mater

Pee oe eee er reese ree reser eee se eee eee ee eee ere e He seee eee EEE Eeereeee eae EEE eee Eee ERED HE EEE DEE ETE REE ERO EEE HEHEHE HEHE SESE ago err creseseeseseneseesee

De

Ce
Cee e omer e de eee dn eee EHH EHH HORE HEE REE EEE OEE HH EEE HEE CEEOL EERE HEE EEE HEHEHE ERE HEE EH EHH EE HEE HES SHEE EH ERE HEHEHE HEHE EEE EH EE EE HE EHH HEHEHE HEHE ED EHH HEHEHE EHH EE HEHEHE EOE EH E HHH EEE OHH DE DET EEE EE TEED E EEO OED
a er ea er er rr a Y
Se eee erm ee meee e rere rere ener sere raese sess ees asses eeresessesesesesesseeseeseseseses
De em eer errr ee meee ee ee ees S ee eee HA SESS EES EEE EH ETE EE SESE HEE OREO SHEE SOE SELES EE HEE E EEE SOE E HEE EEH HEH HH EH EEE ESE HEHE EH HEHEHE HEHE ET EEE OEE HDL TEE H EHH LEH EEE HEHEHE HEE HEHE EHH EERO EEE ECO HEE ED EEE EEE HEHEHE O EEE ODED EO Oe

me meee ere ee ee deo eee HoH HTT RHEE H HERE SESE SETHE OEE ROR EOE OE RETESET ORES ESOT E SEE OSE EET SOTO EHS HEH HEHE SHEESH SETH HH RE DHHS EERE SHEE EHH RE HEE ESOS ESET EERE OTOH EERE DELETE SHH EEO OEE OHO EE SED ERE HEE HEH EEE ED EO EE

Please attach additional data and your assessment of the nominee (be brief and limit to one page).

RECORTETIIE 09 nn ccecee cetecceencessenensnecoesacbaceonsesetonneratesusapeasssannbaudpensvausitessesrsoverescessesasressessasassslsssussescsunsosuranevessssnasasesanes

AGT OBS ooo cncoccccccccctccceccrvecccccescescecvacesvocscesicnccacecocssscevenscosesceseestguiscnselaseunsseygerseersoctetcuausesvsctuecscetusenerss Phone

Corr cecersereeeereveeet ss eeeeeee

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450 :

EP | Dr. William Vatt

Washington Hall

 

Coming in the next issue....

 

Until lately, Louise Herreshoff was known best as
the wife of Euchlin D. Reeves, ’27. Together, they as-
sembled one of the nation’s finest private collections
of Chinese export porcelain—and gave it to Washing-
ton and Lee. But—though almost no one knew it—
Louise Reeves had also been a painter before her
marriage. She herself hid away nearly all her works,
_ however, and as a result she was very nearly lost to
history. The story of how her extraordinary paint-
ings were discovered, and how they have captured the
art world, is as remarkable as it is both romantic
and mysterious. For the moment, suffice it to say that
her oeuvre, which received its world premiere this
fall in no less distinguished a setting than the Corco-
ran Gallery of Art, has been hailed by critics in terms
ranging from “exciting . astonishing” (Scripps-
Howard Newspapers) to “breathtaking . . . wondrous

a legacy to the world” (United Press Interna-

tional).

 

 

W&L Trustee John W. Warner, ’49, until recently
the head of the national Bicentennial administra-
tion and Secretary of the Navy before that, delivered
a major address in November at V.M.I. And when he
came to town, he brought somebody special with
him—his bride-to-be, two-time Academy Award-winner
Elizabeth Taylor. At her own initiative, Miss Taylor
spent an afternoon in a workshop-seminar with W&L
drama students and other guests in the University
Theatre. She fielded questions for an hour, and after-
wards she said shé*iiad been nervous, because she
had never taught before. But she shouldn’t have been.
She was thoughtful and witty and philosophical and
candid. And, to be sure, she was beautiful unto the
legends. W&L saw a side of Elizabeth Taylor that not
too many people have seen before, and the consensus
afterwards was that if she didn’t already have a career,
she could become a college professor in a minute if
she wanted.

 

