the alumni magazine of washington and lee university SEPTEMBER 1975

’
, ®
a
,
-

‘i ad S ri Ce]
. oN rit re rf adil hes $3 > 5 ant
Pee Pa EE le ge
ae ey .
aot hy,

we " % Sy es

ee 3
s m

rs

a

eo

Y Tete Re ;
o - 2 ik) : z,
fee 2 o.'¢
ae iad Ys re
vd rr * ; aed *

iat)

Wisc “ae
‘

5S 0

a

ae
“e
c

F)
a

*

Pe, “eee

Py *
ST a al
By yr MEN gis ec:
ree tity

% © inti dice, a 8
1 Pagreebe = Nie ak La. F<, Ta
eo; ; ee iis re oF .
“ee Pas 3 i: Fs 4 Fae j tn Ze * e
at Oe <i
yee! Nd 4 " * ae of 5

se ce %

 

a are d..

3 Ma iG si
ee a ap
as RB fag OAT
Sys MS A eter

 

 

CF

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 50, Number 6, September 1975

William C. Washburn, °40.............0000ccccceeeeeeeeeeee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman................00...... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, '68..............0.ccccceceeeeseeeee. Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter............0 cee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

Sally Mann ooo... eer etereeee Photographers

TABLE OF CONTENTS

W&L Men Visit the Galapagos ..........00.0 ]
W&L News Briefs ooo... cee 8
Woods Creek Apartments ..............0. ccs 10
R. E. Lee, Citizen oo... eee 12
Lee on Child Rearing 0.000.000.0000. ee 13
Seventh Staff Associate 0.0.0.0... eee 15
Chapter NeWS 2.0... eee ee rete eenenen 17
Class Notes oo... ccc eeeeeeneeeeteeteeceeteeneeees 18
In Memoriam ooo... ttt teee 25
Cap'n Dick: An Obituary ..000..00000 ee. 27

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

C. RoycrE HoueGu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
President

VERNON W, HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

‘THEODORE M. Kerr, 757, Midland, ‘Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

THomMas B. BRANCH, III, 758, Atlanta, Ga.
Epwin J. Fortz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, 41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Ho tuts, 51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy, Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.
Jerry G. Sout, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES C., STIFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ToucuTon, 60, Tampa, Fla.
Rosert M. Wuite, II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

ttt
o=

FRONT COVER: A giant tortoise ambling across
the crater floor of a volcano on the Galapagos
Islands was a familiar sight for five W&L biology
students who accompanied Dr. Cleveland P. Hick-
man to the islands last spring to study animal be-
havior. For an account of their experience on
Darwin’s famous islands, see the opposite page.
Photo by Dr. Hickman. BACK COVER: Wash-
ington and Lee’s new Woods Creek Apartments
are reflected in the stream. See Page 10. Photo by
Sally Mann.

 

 

 

 

   

    
        

     
   
  

 

 

   

  

:
— ey a
ae a SS - :
27 CO a, - Oo
: a - . - - - - a
OO a . - ’ - a -

 

   

 

 

 

    

    

           

 

 
 

  

     
    
 
    
     

.
7 :
Bae - - :
* <7 *

  
   

 

Re -
a
.

   

    

 

  
 

  

Bk 7
ee oe i :
ee rhe :
Oo i 7 - -

7

        

Pacific
Ocean

GALAPAGOS
ARCHIPELAGO

Equator 6

 

Mh

cultural shock, but the natural history of the archipelago
so engrossed the group that the living conditions soon
became more bearable.

Weeks of individual preparation and extensive research
on campus had culminated in seminars presented by the
students within the group. With this firm foundation, the
group departed Woodrum Airport in Roanoke on April
17, ready to conduct detailed field research concentrating
on the behavior of Galapagos wildlife. One day later,
the expedition set foot within the 200 square miles of
islands and islets that compose the Galapagos
Archipelago nestled on the equator in the Pacific Ocean
some 600 miles from the coast of Ecuador.

The islands achieved fame following a five-week so-
journ in 1835 by Charles Darwin on the H.M.S. Beagle.

Of all the observations Darwin made, his study of the fauna

 

Authors Peter Adler (left) and Carey Chisholm pause to rest
during their visit to Tortoise Park in the highlands of
Santa Cruz Islands. Carey sits astride the carapace of an oblig-
ing tortoise while catching up on his field notes. The cool,
damp upland country with its lush meadows and extensive
woodlands sharply contrasts with the arid semi-desert coastal
regions. The tortoises flourish in the moist highlands browsing
on leaves, berries, grasses and other plant foods.

Dr. Cleveland P. Hickman studies the jawbone of a pig.
Perhaps the greatest threat to wildlife on the islands is the re-
cent introduction by man of domestic animals as well as the
Black Rat. Pigs, goats, donkeys, cats, and dogs have all become
wild on many of the islands. The students found evidence of the
presence of many of these animals. For instance, on James
Island they heard the bleating of goats and on Isabela Island
saw a host of donkeys in the caldera of Volcan Alcedo. These in-
troduced animals compete with the established populations

of native animals, especially the giant tortoises.

Wel

 

 

  
 

<

 

a
i

  

a

       

a

   
 

 
  

       

  

 

oe

   
    
 
  
  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

       

 

 

 

Examining its reflection for the first time in the lens of a
camera owned by Dr. Hickman is a Large Cactus Ground
Finch (Geospiza conirostris). This is one of 13 species of
first mate who was nearly our own age. Most of us had finches that evolved from a common ancestor. Differentiating

never lived on a boat before, especially one with such among the finches was quite a task, but with practice members of

« > . . the expedition could identify nine species. One highlight of
comforts” as an unworkable toilet, a marked propensity the trip was a pair of Woodpecker Finches spotted in Tortoise

 

to rock one into seasickness even in calm waters, a cruis- Park, Santa Cruz Island. The group observed and photographed
ing speed of some three miles per hour, a rusty anchor which the rare tool-using technique that this bird employed to obtain
later snapped, and cramped living quarters permeated insects. Lacking the tongue of a true woodpecker, this finch
with unstomachable diesel-fuel odors and infested with improvises by using twigs or cactus spines.

hordes of large tropical roaches. Almost all Galapagos natives
(population 7,000) spoke only Spanish, and our captain was
no exception. This, combined with our limited Spanish
vocabulary, meant much frustrated sign language.

A striking feature of the Galapagos Islands is that
they are one of the only places in the world where animals
show little fear of man. Two reasons explain this situa-
tion: The lack of natural predators and the very recent
appearance of man (in the 17th century) on these islands.

WeL

me


z MF
: os . ee . é : Hy J
: ‘ ee : : aoe ee Ss ghee ge gs x
p nk et ee ee ae PTE Oe ee ae ae oe
é me eS . ae es é rat eg We os at — a * “ Ly ; é
Ye ame > * a -< ME RI = x

 

on several occasions, to camp overnight. Our most ex-
tensive backpacking experience took place on Volcan
Alcedo, located on Isabela Island. Each of us had to

carry 22 pounds of water in addition to all our camping
supplies on the grueling 12-mile hike to our campsite on
the rim of the caldera, a collapsed volcanic crater. Here
we pitched our tents in the eerie surroundings of the perpetual
highland mist. We constructed log barricades around the
tents to prevent wandering tortoises from eating them.

The day was spent exploring the wonders of the caldera
floor, such as a fumarole spouting steam 300 feet into the
air, large sulphur deposits, mating tortoises and inquisitive
hawks that allowed us to approach them within six

inches. One day, lunch consisted of stale crackers and
maggot-ridden cheese wrapped in a greasy banana leaf.
The tortoise population in Volcan Alcedo is the largest in

>

 

eee og e
ER FO. = -

*

a *% ee

Blue-footed Booby pair (Sula nebouxi) engaged in mutual display.
Such ritualized behavior occurs in sea birds to maintain

social order and assure that a breeding pair remains together
long enough for a successful raising of the chick. The female
bird on the left is “goose-stepping” while the male on the

right is engaged in the skypointing motion, accompanied by a
beseeching whistling noise. At Daphne Island, the hike to

the top of the long extinct volcano was rewarded by a breath-
taking view of 1,000 nesting pairs of Blue-footed Boobies on

the caldera floor below.

Wel

   

 

 

 

 

the archipelago and appeared healthy in spite of the feral
donkeys encountered in the caldera. Nevertheless, this
population is only a remnant of Galapagos tortoises that
once numbered a half-million. During the 19th century,
whalers depleted vast numbers of the tortoises, storing them
as fresh meat supplies in the ship-holds for up to one year
with no food or water.

During our expedition we observed more than 100
species of animals, 32 of them endemic to the archipelago.
The evolutionary lessons taught by the archipelago were
striking, for nowhere else does Nature permit man to
sit among her subjects as we did. One month after
our departure, we returned to Lexington. A motley and
unshaven crew, we were nevertheless wiser and more learned
in the ways of life—both cultural and biological.

September 1975

 

i RE

Top: The Land Iguana (Conolophus subcristatus) was en-
countered on South Plaza Islet. Attracted by the yellow flowers

of the Opuntia cactus, the students fed a number of these three-
foot lizards from their hands. Being territorial animals, several
showdowns occurred between iguanas attracted to the feeding area,
beginning as ritualized head bobs and at times ending in a
full-fledged battle from which the loser would hastily retreat.

A large “biomass” of marine iguanas (Amblyrhynchus cristatus)
found at Punta Saurez, Hood Island. This is the only marine
lizard found in the world, its body showing various adaptations
to this mode of life such as salt-removing glands and long
claws enabling it to cling to the bottom while feeding. The
Marine Iguana feeds almost exclusively on sea weed and has
been observed diving to depths of 35 feet. Interestingly, we
observed territoriality amongst nest-building females for

several hours at Punta Saurez.

LY news briefs

1975-76 ENROLLMENT APPROACHES 1,600

O Almost 1,600 students registered for classes in September
as the University began its 227th academic year. More than
380 of the students are freshmen — one of the largest classes
ever to enter Washington and Lee. The class was selected
from one of the largest groups of applicants, with nearly
four applications for each space in the new freshman class.
The School of Law registered 80 first-year students, chosen
from a pool of 1,050 applicants — a ratio of 13 for each
vacancy in the new class. About a quarter of the new law
students are women. The School of Law, coeducational since
1972, is the only W&L division to admit women as degree
candidates. Total law school enrollment this year will be
about 240.

NEW BIOLOGY DEPARTMENT HEAD

O Dr. Royal F. Ruth, a zoologist from the University of Al-
berta, has become head of the University’s biology depart-
ment. Dr. Ruth, currently a professor of zoology at Alberta,
succeeded Dr. Henry S. Roberts as department head. Roberts
died in February 1974. Dr. James H. Starling had been acting
department head in the interim. Dr. Ruth holds the rank of
professor of biology at Washington and Lee and will serve
a five-year term as department head.

A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Grinnell College, he holds
the master’s and Ph.D. degrees in zoology from the Univer-
sity of Wisconsin. He conducted postdoctoral research at the
University of Indiana, then worked with the Carnegie In-
stitution until joining the Alberta faculty in Calgary 14
years ago.

The author of many research articles, Dr. Ruth has been
a member of the editorial boards of two zoological journals
and was the chairman in 1971-72 of the research grants com-
mittee in cell biology and genetics for the Canadian Na-
tional Research Council.

NEW STUDENT CENTER DIRECTOR

O Michael A. Cappeto, formerly director of the College Union
and coordinator of counseling and testing at Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, has been named to a similar post at Washing-
ton and Lee. He becomes director of W&L’s Early-Fielding
Student Center, succeeding Kenneth P. Lane Jr., who has re-
signed. Cappeto also has additional responsibilities in career
counseling for underclassmen, and in this capacity will work
closely with the University’s director of placement. Cappeto is
a B.A. graduate of Madison College and received his M.S. de-
gree in counselor psychology in 1971, also from Madison. He
was on leave from his V.M.I. position during the past academ-
ic year to pursue doctoral studies at Virginia Polytechnic In-
stitute and State University.

NINETEEN FACULTY PROMOTIONS

O Nineteen faculty members have been promoted in rank.
Twelve teachers were promoted from associate to full pro-

fessor. They are Drs. David G. Elmes and Joseph B. Thomp-

son in psychology; Lawrence D. Gaughan and Joseph E. UI-

rich in the School of Law; Dr. Thomas C. Imeson II in

8

chemistry; Dr. Robert S. Johnson in mathematics; Dr. Robert
W. McAhren in history; Ronald H. MacDonald in journa-
lism; Dr. Thomas G. Nye II in biology; Dr. Frederic L.
Schwab in geology; Dr. Herman W. Taylor in ancient langu-
ages, and Dr. Sidney James Williams in romance languages.

Promoted to associate professor from assistant were
Barbara Jeanne Brown of the University’s undergraduate li-
brary staff; Dr. Michael A. Pleva in chemistry; Dr. I. Taylor
Sanders II in history, and Benjamin M. Vandegrift in the
School of Law.

Promoted from instructor to assistant professor were
Betty Ruth Kondayan of the library staff; Dr. Gordon P.
Spice of the music faculty, and Dr. O. Kendall White Jr. of
the sociology department.

 

“Sas

Thomas B. Ramey III

RAMEY IS ADMISSIONS AIDE

O) Thomas B. Ramey III, a May graduate with a B.S. in busi-
ness administration, joined the admissions staff in August as
an assistant director. He succeeded Danny N. Murphy, ’73.
The University employs a new graduate for one or two years
as an admissions assistant. Murphy had held the job since
1973; he moved to Atlanta and intends to pursue graduate
studies in college administration. Ramey, a Dean’s List stu-
dent from Tyler, Texas, was president of the Interfraternity
Council his senior year. As assistant admissions director, he
will be a member of W&L’s admissions and student financial
aid committees, will travel extensively to secondary schools
throughout the country, and will conduct on-campus inter-
views with prospective students.

DR. COULLING’S BOOK IS PRAISED

LU} Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling’s book, Matthew Arnold and
His Critics, is the subject of a lengthy — and highly favor-
able — review in a recent issue of the London Times Literary
Supplement. The review, “A Patrician Sense of Order,” is by
John Holloway, a noted Victorian scholar. He remarks that
Dr. Coulling’s book provides ‘a detailed, sustained and il-
luminating picture” of Arnold’s involvement in the “mani-
fold tissue of contemporary controversy” in the 19th century.
Arnold, the eminent poet and critic, died in 1888. Dr. Coul-
ling’s book was published last winter by the Ohio University
Press.

EIGHT NEW ‘TEACHERS

QO) Eight new teachers have joined the faculty this academic
year. Two of the new teachers are in the School of Law; one
in the School of Commerce, Economics and Politics; and five
in the College. The new law teachers are Samuel M. Davis,
visiting associate professor, and James S. Halpern, assistant

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

=

 

ee ——

=e

 

Cs

 

professor. The new teacher in the commerce school is Dr.
Philip L. Cline, assistant professor of administration. New
teachers in the College are Dr. Robert L. Wilson Jr., associate
professor of mathematics; Dr. Alfred G. Fralin Jr., assistant
professor of romance languages; Dr. Nancy Margand, assistant
psychology professor; Isabel Mcllvain, instructor in fine arts;
and John T. Reilly, instructor in English.

Davis teaches courses in evidence, juvenile courts, and
criminal procedure. He was assistant dean at the University
of Georgia School of Law and associate law professor there.
He is a graduate of the University of Southern Mississippi
and received his J.D. degree in law with honors from the Uni-
versity of Mississippi. He also holds the master of laws degree
from the University of Virginia. He has written articles for a
number of law reviews and was editor-in-chief of the Mississtp-
pi Law Journal as a student.

Halpern teaches law courses in taxation and “family
wealth transactions.” Until joining the W&L law faculty, he
was an associate in the tax department of Mudge, Rose,
Gutherie & Alexander in New York. He earned the B.S. de-
gree in economics from the University of Pennsylvania’s
Wharton School, the Juris Doctor degree from the University
of Pennsylvania, and the LL.M. degree from the New York
University Law School earlier this year.

Dr. Cline, a 1967 honors graduate of Washington and
Lee, received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in economics from
Oklahoma State University, where he was also a research as-
sistant and part-time instructor in economics. At W&L, he
teaches courses in elementary economics, elementary and ad-
vanced statistics, and production management.

Dr. Wilson taught at the University of Wisconsin in Madi-
son since receiving his Ph.D. from that institution in 1969. He
earned his B.A. degree in mathematics from Ohio Wesleyan
and was named a Woodrow Wilson Scholar.

Dr. Fralin, who taught two years at Virginia Military In-
stitute, is a B.A. graduate of Randolph-Macon College in
Ashland and holds the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from Chapel
Hill. He will fill a one-year appointment at Washington and
Lee.

Dr. Margand received her Ph.D. in psychology from the
University of Virginia this summer. She was a graduate teaci-
ing assistant and research assistant at U.Va. as well. She is
also a B.A. graduate of Ohio State University.

Ms. Mcllvain is a B.A. graduate of Smith College and
holds the master’s degree in fine arts from the Pratt Institute.
She also studied at the Art Student League for three years and
has taught at St. Mary’s School and at Sarah Lawrence College.

Reilly holds degrees from Dutchess Community College
in New York, Harpur’s College and Cornell University, and
is completing work on his doctorate in English at Cornell.
He has taught at Dutchess Community and was a graduate
assistant at Cornell.

FIVE PROFESSORS ON LEAVE

LI) Five professors at Washington and Lee University will be
on sabbatical leave for part or all of this academic year —
with one of them going to Oxford University to teach and
continue his scientific research there.

The five are Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of psy-
chology and department head, who will be at Oxford; Dr.
Ramsey Martin, associate philosophy professor, who will con-
duct research in Scotland and England; Prof. Andrew W. Mc-
Thenia of the School of Law, who will teach in Canada; Dr.
mB. LL. Pinney, professor of politics, who will carry out research

September 1975

on German political education; and Dr. Henry P. Porter Jr.,
associate history professor, who will continue his studies on
African colonial history.

Jarrard is on leave the full academic year. Martin, Mc-
Thenia and Pinney will be on leave during the Winter Term,
beginning in January, and Porter is on leave during the
Fall ‘Term.

At Oxford, Jarrard will continue his pioneering research
— supported for the past 10 years by the National Science
Foundation — into the hippocampus, the small, seahorse-
shaped structure of the brain which influences memory and
motivation.

He recently received a $76,000, three-year renewal of a
grant from the NSF to extend his hippocampal research.
Since 1965, the federally supported foundation has provided
a total of nearly $200,000 in support of Jarrard’s research.

Martin will conduct his research in Cambridge or Edin-
burgh. McThenia will teach courses in contracts and environ-
mental law as a visiting professor at Osgood Hall Law
School, a division of York University in Toronto. Pinney
will conduct his research in German political education either
in the United States or in Germany, and Porter is in Europe
investigating the annexation by Great Britain of territories
in East Africa between 1890 and 1895.

 

1975 FALL ATHLETIC SCHEDULES
FOOTBALL
Sept. 20 Madison Away
Sept. 27 Centre HOME
Oct. 4 Randolph-Macon Away
Oct. 11 Southwestern (Homecoming) HOME
Oct. 18 Hampden-Sydney HOME
Oct. 25 University of the South Away
Nov. 1 Bucknell Away
Nov. 8 Denison Away
Nov. 15 Coast Guard Academy Away
Nov. 22 Georgetown HOME
SOCCER

Sept. 19-20 Villanova, Lynchburg College,

William & Mary Away
Sept. 24 University of Virginia Away
Sept. 27 Eastern Mennonite HOME
Oct. 3 West Virginia Wesleyan Away
Oct. 8 Radford HOME
Oct. 11 Lynchburg Away
Oct. 14 Hampden-Sydney HOME
Oct. 22 Roanoke HOME
Oct. 24 Madison Away
Oct. 28 V.M.I. HOME
Nov. 1 U.S. Naval Academy Away
Nov. Mex HOME

CROSS-COUNTRY

Sept. 27 Davis & Elkins, Shepherd Away
Oct. 4 Roanoke, Christopher Newport,

Norfolk State Away
Oct. 11 Lynchburg, Virginia Wesleyan,

Christopher Newport

(Homecoming) HOME
Oct. 18 Bridgewater Away
Oct. 25 W.Va. Institute of Technology HOME
Oct. 31 Eastern Mennonite, Madison Away
Nov. 8 VCAA Championships
Nov. 15 NCAA Division III Championship Away

 

 

 

 

The University opened its $1.4-million Woods Creek Apart-
ments this fall, increasing on-campus housing facilities almost
threefold for unmarried upperclass and law students. The
apartment complex consists of three buildings containing a
total of 40 units, fully furnished, carpeted, and _ air-condi-
tioned. The apartments accommodate 178 students in three-,
four-, and five-man units, each with a kitchen, living-dining
area, and a balcony. The buildings are located across the
valley from the back campus and are nestled into the wooded
hillside descending to the creek. The concrete structures
are finished in textured weathered wood that blends with the
rustic setting. The buildings have entrances on the road lead-
ing to the new law school building, Lewis Hall, still under
construction, and on the Woods Creek side. Rentals range
from $650 to $750 per student. All units were rented when
classes began.

10

*
*

x
$.\

a

. e. . > . J L "8 ew . ? a3
PR 7 e > = a ae} i
, vat * ‘ee oy ‘—
. 7 Fe rey’ y ans i ‘ 4
= ie 4 ; Bae . Se Be
~ = ° i 2 ; Bd és ~~ . re *s

aad .

he

 

 

 

  

Photographs by Sally Mann

yp"

OPPOSITE TOP: Woods Creek Apartments viewed from the

access road to Lewis Hall.

OPPOSITE CENTER: The apartments as seen from the

Woods Creek side with West Building in the foreground.

OPPOSITE BELOW: Each kitchen is equipped with every-

thing it takes to prepare a meal.

TOP: A corner bedroom showing dresser and desk. Bedrooms

also contain single bed and wardrobe.

CENTER: View of apartments from Woods Creek side with

East Building in the foreground.

BELOW LEFT: Tier of balconies on the creek side of the
East Building.

———na , | ABOVE: Dining and living area opening onto a balcony.

11

R. E. Lee:
citizen

 

UY tj
YfYy}; y Yj
WM Yj

Wy

J. D. Humphries III, ’66A, ’69L, an Atlanta lawyer,
wrote the following letter, dated July 28, to President Ford.
It asks the President to come to Lexington and sign in
Lee Chapel the legislation restoring General Lee’s citizen-
ship. With the University’s blessing, President Ford chose
to sign the bill at the Custis-Lee Mansion in Arlington.
Nevertheless, the Editors feel that Humphries’ letter
expresses sentiments shared by nearly all Washington and
Lee men and reprint it here with gratitude.

Dear President Ford:
Congress recently passed a bill which, with your ap-

proval, will restore and reinstate citizenship to Robert E. Lee.

After Appomattox, R. E. Lee assumed the presidency of
a small men’s college in Lexington, Virginia, then known
as Washington College. Since that time students from all
states have, and continue to attend Washington and Lee
University. In addition to other factors, students enroll
through admiration of Lee and his character. Honesty,
loyalty, integrity, humility, and above all else, honor
are virtues he cherished. During his tenure as president
of Washington and Lee, he imparted his virtues upon the
institution and that influence still persists.

After 1865 he did all he could by deed and example
to mend the wounds of war. He applied for reinstatement
as a citizen and both Andrew Johnson and U. S. Grant
were made aware of such application by letters dated June

TO

 

riche anda ed

~ , y Uy Yy Yj YY yy YY y QMO IL
Left: R. E. Lee, January, 1 believed to
be the last ever taken of Lee, is by Michael Miley (1841-1918),
General Lee’s photographer. The cartoon is by Garry Apgar,

67, staff artist for the Roanoke Times.

13, 1865. Our government chose to ignore his request and
exclude him from amnesty until July of 1975. His home,
Arlington, was confiscated and is used for our national
cemetary. Such use would please him. He and his family
are buried in Lee Chapel, Lexington, Virginia.

His example and contribution to our country after the
war was immense. His character and integrity continue
to be an inspiration and profound influence on many.

As one of those influenced, I would respectfully request that
you restore R. E. Lee to citizenship and that such
restoration occur in Lee Chapel, Lexington, Virginia.

The last time the President visited Lexington, it was
in 1964 to dedicate the George C. Marshall Research
Library. President Johnson and former President Eisen-
hower were in attendance. Illness prevented President
Truman from being present. The inspiration, the leader-
ship, and the virtues which made R. E. Lee a great
American transcend concrete and mortar, regardless to
whom such a monument is erected. Without character and
without values, we are without America.

Most respectfully yours,
J. D. Humpnrigs, III

 

by Halford R. Ryan

Assistant Professor of Public Speaking

Lee on the education of children:
parents must be worthy of imitation

Robert E. Lee was by all accounts
a kind and devoted father to his
seven children. What more citizenly pur-
suit than his efforts to bring them
to adulthood as effective members of
society and his passing on the fruits of
his experience to others. Education
was indeed the passion of his last years,
“his final achievement’ in the words of
Dr. Francis P. Gaines, the late president
of Washington and Lee. His views on
child rearing therefore should hold
more than passing interest for We&L
men. This article is also being pub-
lished in the Virginia Journal of
Education.

One would suppose that a man who
had spent his adult life in the military,
when asked to opine concerning chil-
dren’s rearing and education, would
naturally suggest stern measures for
the bringing up and teaching of children.
At least in General Lee’s case, the
contrary was true. In conjunction with
his membership in the Educational
Society of Virginia, Lee expressed his
opinions on child rearing and educa-
tion in a letter to Prof. J. B. Minor
at the University of Virginia on
May 15, 1867. Lee’s contribution was
meant for an address to Virginia parents.
But his letter is no less important to-
day than it was in Lee’s time, because
attention should always be given to
education and child rearing.

In looking at child rearing and
education, Lee focused more on the
parent than on the child. In his
inquiry, the proper starting point was
the parent: “. . . all those who have any
experience on the subject must be
aware of the obstacles at the very
threshold of education, arising from
the want of proper family management.”
Having isolated what he felt was the
problem, Lee then explicated the
principle by which he felt the problem
could be solved. According to Lee, the
fundamental principle of child educa-

September 1975

tion and rearing was imitation of the
parent by the child. Lee wrote in his
letter: “A child has everything to learn,
and is more readily taught by having
before it good examples to imitate, than
by simple precepts. He should there-
fore, as far as circumstances will permit,
be encouraged to associate with his
parents; for his heart must be affected,

 

This picture is believed to be of Robert
E. Lee and his son William Henry
Fitzhugh (Rooney) Lee.

his feelings moved, as well as his mind
expanded.” It is crucial to understand
the efficacy of the principle of parental
imitation. First, the parents must be

13

Photo Courtesy of Virginia Historical Society

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

h

 

that “Children are natur-
ally truthful, and they should be ac-
ity, and confes-

 

 

 

 

Schoenfeld joins development staff
as seventh alumni staff associate

John S. R. Schoenfeld of Washing-
ton, D. C., a director of the Internation-
al Management and Development In-
stitute (IMDI), has become the Univer-
sity’s seventh Development Staff Associ-
ate.

He and the six other Staff Associates
—all W&L alumni with extensive business
and professional experience—are working
with the Board of Trustees, the Achieve-
ment Council, and members of the Uni-
versity development staff to complete by
the end of 1976 the initial $36 million
phase of the University’s development
program for the 1970s.

Using their communities as home
bases, they are helping to manage the
solicitation by members of the Achieve-
ment Council of the remaining leadership
capital gifts needed to meet the 1976
objective. A leadership gift is a commit-
ment of $50,000 or more.

The geographic area in which Schoen-
feld is working includes the District of
Columbia, Maryland, Delaware, and eas-
tern Pennsylvania.

The mission of the International
Management and Development Institute
is “to build closer bonds of unity be-
tween men and nations through better
management practices and multinational
cooperation,” and by educational con-
tracts with the Foreign Service Institute.
Schoenfeld, as a director of IMDI, is
leading the effort to broaden their fund-
ing and marketing efforts.

Prior to joining IMDI, Schoenfeld
served for five years (1969-74) as execu-
tive vice president of the Naticnal As-
sociation of Securities Dealers, a non-
profit corporation established by Con-
gress in 1938 as a self-regulatory body
with supervisory and disciplinary re-
sponsibilities over more than 3,000 bro-
kerage firms and 200,000 registered in-
dividuals.

Before joining the NASD, he was the
administrative partner (1952-69) of Fer-
ris & Co., members of the New York
Stock Exchange, and an account execu-

September 1975

 

John S. R. Schoenfeld

tive (1949-51) with Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith, in their Washington of-
fice.

Schoenfeld said he was motivated to
become a Staff Associate because he be-
lieves universities that develop the in-
dividual characteristics of students, as
opposed to the conformity of mass edu-
cation, are vital to our society.

“The bigger our country gets,” he
said, “the more I believe we need peo-
ple who are, like our Founding Fathers,
individuals first, who are capable of in-
dependent thought, and who respect and
believe in the traditions that have made
our country what it is. I think Washing-
ton and Lee is an excellent example of
the kind of school that develops such
leaders. I don’t want to see this type of
school disappear from the American
scene. So I wanted to help and I found
myself in a position to do so.”

He noted that Washington and Lee
has turned out an extraordinary num-
ber of “good, solid, well-educated citi-
zens who hold diverse but always re-
sponsible positions of leadership,” and he
thinks “Washington and Lee has served
the country well in this respect—by edu-
cating people who can be leaders.”

Schoenfeld attended St. Albans School
in Washington and was graduated from
Washington and Lee with a B. A. degree
in 1949. In 1959, he attended the In-
stitute of Investment Banking of the
Wharton School of Finance. He has con-
ducted many special educational pro-
grams in investments and management
and was guest lecturer at the Wharton
School from 1965 to 1969. He has been
president of the St. Albans School Alum-
ni Association and was co-chairman of its
successful $2-million development fund
drive in 1966-67. In addition, he has
held many positions of professional and
civic leadership.

The other Staff Associates (announc-
ed earlier) and the geographic areas in
which they are working are:

Upton Beall, ’51A, of Tyler, Texas,
president of the Robinwood Building
and Development Co. (Texas)

William P. Boardman, ’63A, ’69L, of
Columbus, Ohio, a partner in the law
firm of Wright, Harlor, Morris & Arnold.
(Ohio, Kentucky, West Virginia, western
Pennsylvania).

Thomas B. Branch III, ’58A, ’60L, of
Atlanta, Georgia, a partner in the law
firm of Greene, Buckley, DeRieux &
Jones. (Alabama, Florida, Georgia).

Jaquelin H. DeJarnette, ’65A, of Rich-
mond, Virginia, vice president for In-
stitutional Sales of Wheat First Securi-
ties. (Virginia).

Adrian Williamson Jr., ’50A,_ of
Little Rock, Arkansas, consultant, Joint
Council on Economic Education. (Ten-
nessee, Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi).

Clark B. Winter, ’37A, of Garden
City, New York, retired vice president
and treasurer of American Express Com-
pany. (New York, New Jersey, Connecti-
cut).

THREE ALUMNI ADDED
TO ACHIEVEMENT COUNCIL

Three new vice chairmen have been
added to the Alumni Committee of the
Washington and Lee Achievement Coun-

15

Development News

 

cil—-the group that is spearheading the
University’s effort to achieve its $36-mil-
lion development objective in 1976.

The three are Clay J. Berry Jr., ’50,
of Fort Worth, Texas, a partner in the
insurance firm of Thomas M. Ryan; A.
Stevens Miles, ’51, of Louisville, Ky.,
president of the First National Bank of
Louisville; and W. Temple Webber Jr.,
‘54, of Houston, Texas, registered repre-
sentative of Rauscher Pierce Securities
Corp.

As Achievement Council vice chair-
men, they are seeking capital support
(funds for buildings and endowment)
among Washington and Lee alumni in
their areas. Berry and Webber will have
the assistance of Development Staff As-
sociate Upton Beall, ’51, of Tyler, Texas,
and Miles the assistance of Development
Staff Associate William Boardman, ’63,
of Columbus, Ohio.

To date, the Achievement Council,
made up of members of the Board of
Trustees and other alumni leaders, has
raised nearly $27.5 million toward the
1976 objective of $36 million. The chief
remaining challenge is to raise sufficient
funds to begin construction of a new un-
dergraduate library and to enlarge the
University’s endowment.

The Achievement Council is com-
posed of five committees for capital sup-
port and a committee for current support,
each headed by a Trustee chairman. The
committees and their chairmen §are:
Alumni—Jack W. Warner; Law—E. Wal-
ler Dudley; Parents—John L. Crist Jr.;
Foundations—Isadore M. Scott; Business
and Industry—Joseph T. Lykes Jr.; Cur-
rent Support—Sydney Lewis.

FACULTY AND STAFF ASKED
TO AID FUND PROGRAM

The Board of Trustees has authorized
a solicitation of the faculty, administra-
tion, and staff in support of the Uni-
versity’s program to raise $36 million by
the end of 1976.

Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh, dean emeri-

16

“-

 

4

Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh

tus and professor emeritus of history, is
chairman of the solicitation effort. A 14-
member steering committee is helping ad-
minister the solicitation, which began
this fall and will be completed by the
end of the calendar year.

The solicitation is the first request for
capital gifts from the Washington and
Lee “family” since the University’s 1959-
60 campaign to raise funds for new
science facilities.

The steering committee whose mem-
bership was approved by the Board of
Trustees represents every segment of
the University community. Its members
are:

Dr. William H. Hinton, professor of
psychology; Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling,
professor of English; William D. Mc.
Henry, athletic director; Ronald H. Mac-
Donald, professor of journalism; Dr.
Samuel J. Kozak, professor of geology;
Van Pate, assistant dean of students and
director of financial aid; Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, professor of religion; William N.
Mohler, director of University services;
Dr. Lewis G. John, dean of students; An-
drew W. McThenia, professor of law; Dr.
John DeVogt, professor of commerce;
Mrs. Ann Lothery, bookkeeper in the

 

business office; Henry Weeks, carpenter
foreman; and Frank Woodley, dormitory
custodian.

Dr. Sensabaugh joined the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty in 1956 and was
dean of the University from 1956 until
1960. He retired from teaching in 1974
and is now a member of the Lexington
City Council. He is a graduate in history
of Vanderbilt University and holds the
Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins.

Dr. Sensabaugh said the solicitation
gives every member of the University
family an opportunity to show his dedica-
tion and loyalty to the University.

“During my years on the faculty,” he
said, “I developed a deep affection for
the University. I now welcome this op-
portunity to show my appreciation by
serving it in this way.”

McNEESE NAMED ASSOCIATE
DIRECTOR OF DEVELOPMENT

Carter V. McNeese has been promot-
ed from assistant to associate director of
development at Washington and Lee. In
his new position, he has assumed primary
responsibility for all of the University’s
annual giving programs in support of
current expenses, working closely with J.
Sanford Doughty, associate director. He
also has assumed direction of the Uni-
versity’s effort to obtain gifts from foun-
dations. This effort seeks capital support
toward achievement in 1976 of the Uni-
versity’s $36-million development objec-
tive.

McNeese joined the development
staff in 1972 as assistant director in
charge of the Alumni Fund. Before that,
he was manager of community services
for the Washington Gas Light Co. He
graduated from St. Albans School in
1953 and received his B.S. degree from
the U.S. Naval Academy in 1957. He
served eight years in the Navy as a naval
aviator, teaching chemistry for three
years at the Naval Academy. He then
taught at St. Albans for five years, join-
ing Washington Gas Light in 1970.

WeL

 

 

Chapter news

LITTLE ROCK. Alumni from Little
Rock and throughout Arkansas gathered
on July 25 to hear a presentation on
“The State of the University.” Contri-
buting to the evening’s program were
special guests, E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.,
’°33. Rector of the Board of Trustees, and
J. Stewart Buxton, ’36 and John L. Crist
Jr., 45, members of the Board. William
C. Norman Jr., ’56, presided. Following
the business session, alumni, their wives,
and guests adjourned to a cocktail re-
ception at Little Rock’s newest French
restaurant on the 30th floor of the re-

cently opened First National Bank
Building.
CHATTANOOGA. At = a__ luncheon

meeting in the Read Hotel on May 21,
1975, and under the direction of David
M. Berlinghof, ’55, the alumni chapter

a
~

e

t

b

Cantamhar 107%

Be

of Chattanooga was officially reorganized.
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn was
present to give an up-to-date report on
the University. He reported four young
men from the Chattanooga area had con-
firmed their admission to Washington
and Lee as freshman in September. De-
sire for alumni involvement in student
recruitment from the Chattanooga area
was stressed. In a brief business session
the following were named officers: David
Berlinghof, ’55, president; Joe Daven-
port III ,’69, vice president; Lex ‘Taru-
minanz, ’69, 2nd vice president; Allen
Brown, ‘°72,  secretary-treasurer. Plans
were discussed for a fall general meet-
ing on social events for the chapter.

RICHMOND. In honor of 11 students
entering Washington and Lee as fresh-
men, a large number of enthusiastic

“ eae Py
ee. ae
= ,

e
,

=

*

3 A f
ale ee
0 BE Ba:

Top left: In Richmond, alumni gathered by the pool for an
outing. Below left: A blue grass band provided the beat as
Paul M. Shuford, ’43A, ’48L, and John J. Fox, ’57A, talked with
women guests. Above: Hoisting a few in Richmond were
Dan T. Balfour, ’63A, ’65L, Bob Yevich, ’70A, Bill Noell, ’64A,
and Andrew Sanders, a freshman.

alumni, current students, wives, and
dates gathered at Sunday Park in the ex-
citing Brandermill development on Aug.
7. With perfect weather and an ideal lo-
cation, the social function was most suc-
cessful. A picnic supper was served along
with ample beer, and at least one guest
went swimming. A blue grass band call-
ed The New Spring Grass provided en-
tertainment. Attending and representing
the University were W. A. (Bill) Noell,
'64, associate director of admission and
associate dean of students; Marty Bass,
70, assistant alumni secretary and Bill
Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary. Robert
E. Payne, ’63, chapter president, presid-
ed over the meeting and after introduc-
tions and recognitions, paid a_ special
thanks to E. A. (Ned) Powell, ’70, mar-
keting and sales executive for Brander-
mill, who had made the arrangements.

   

 
  

17

Class notes

 

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

‘The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $66.00 f.o.b.

Lexington, Virginia

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Immediate shipment
from available stock.

 

 

1912

After an absence of more than 50 years,
Howarp BurTON LEE returned to Mercer
County (Bluefield), W.Va., on July 4 for a
testimonial dinner in his honor. Lee is an
author, historian, and a former State At-
torney General and Mercer County’s prose-
cuting attorney. Lee is best known for his
trilogy on the Appalachian area, The Burn-
ing Springs and Other Tales of the Little
Kanawha, published in 1968. Lee began his
law practice in Bluefield in 1909 and served
as county prosecutor from 1916 to 1924. He
kept a diary of his experiences in the coal
fields from 1909 until 1969. Bloodletting in
Appalachia, published in 1969, is the story
of West Virginia’s four bloody “mine wars’.
Lee was elected Attorney General of West
Virginia in 1925 and served until 1933 when
he started practicing law in Charleston, re-
tiring in 1942. Since that time he has lived
in Stuart, Fla.

Cot. PAUL A. ROCKWELL, retired Army offic-
er in Asheville, N.C., continues as secretary-
treasurer of the Lafayette Escadrille Society,
organized in April 1916. Colonel Rockwell’s
brother, Kiffin, was among the founders.
Rockwell writes that Charles H. Dolan Jr.
is the sole surviving Lafayette Escadrille
pilot. Rockwell has served as official historian
for the society for years and reports that
several movie producers have approached
him about making documentary films on
the Lafayette Escadrille.

JAMEs SOMERVILLE lives in Arlington and
takes an active role in the political develop-
ment in Virginia.

1918

WILL WALKER WARD lives in Frankfort, Ky.,
and is retired from Schenley Distillers.

1922

J. CHARLEs B. WATSON worked for Goodyear
Tire and Rubber Co. for 33 years as a re-
search chemist before retiring in October
1963. He now lives in Lehigh Acres, Fla.

1928

Dr. NELSON W. DIEBEL was a_ practicing
physician in Grosse Pointe, Mich. until re-
tirement in 1973. He spends a great deal
of time traveling in Mexico and in Florida
and enjoys golfing, gardening, and wood-
working.

Dr. Harry B. NEEL is a surgeon in the
Medical and Surgical Center in Albert Lea,

Minn.
1930

After selling his liquor and wine business
in 1974, ABBoT A. HARMAN is now writing
wine feature articles for a large industry
weekly paper. He also teaches winemanship
at Columbia and bartending with wine at
Barnard College.

193]

ARTHUR W. PHELPS has retired and is a
professor emeritus of the College of Wil-
liam and Mary Law School. He continues to
write books on Virginia law.

1932

MARTIN P. Burks III, a lawyer’s lawyer and
a devoted alumnus of Washington and Lee,
retired as general counsel of the Norfolk
and Western Railway in July. He is chair-
man of Washington and Lee’s Estate Plan-
ning Council and has been a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors. In 1959, the
University awarded him an honorary Doc-
tor of Laws Degree. His 28 years with N&W
started after 10 years of private practice and
naval intelligence service during World
War II. John P. Fishwick, N&W president,
called Burks “one of the outstanding law-
yers in Virginia. A man of deep integrity,
great ability and unerrinngly good judg-
ment, he has been a major source of
strength . . . His legal skills and wise coun-
sel have been invaluable.” As general coun-
sel, he has been involved in a great variety
of legal work. He handled the conveyance
of a merchandise pier to the Virginia Port
Authority and last year’s $17-million sale of
Tidewater property to the Navy. Burks has
often been consulted on equal employment,
environmental, and railway labor matters.
His father was a Roanoke lawyer and both
his grandfather and great-grandfather were
justices on the Virginia Supreme Court of
Appeals. His grandfather, Martin P. Burks,
attended Washington College when Robert
E. Lee was president, and he was later dean
of the Washington and Lee School of Law.
Burks continues in many responsible posi-
tions among which are: president of the
Communitay Hospital Board, member of the
executive committee of Shenandoah Life In-
surance Co., and a director of Colonial
American Bankshares.

JULIAN F. BRooME has lived in Jacksonville,
Fla., since 1936. He reired from R-C Motor

Wel

Lines as district sales manager in 1973. A
grandfather eight times, he enjoys tennis,
fishing, and golf.

After 19 years as a circuit judge, H. W. Mac-
KENZIE JR. is retiring. The Portsmouth, Va.,
judge is enjoying hunting and fishing.

1933

ETHELBERT H. EvANs, after many years in the
fertilizer business, retired in 1973. He lives
in Montgomery, Ala., where he has many
Washington and Lee friends.

1935

After retiring from government service in
1968, CARNEY G. LASLIE became a consultant
in foreign trade, 1968-1971. He then moved
to Shreveport, La., and became a part-time
lecturer in history at Centenary College. His
area of interest are diplomatic history in
China and Japan and modern Europe.

PEYTON B. WINFREE JR., after 11 years as di-
rector of public relations and advertising
for the Norfolk and Western Railway, re-
tired in August. Winfree, a long-time Lynch-
burg newspaperman, went to Roanoke in
1964 after service as executive assistant to
former Gov. J. Lindsay Almond Jr., and a
stint as director of public relations and ad-
vertising for the Virginia State Division of
Industrial Development. He is a former
president of the Washington and Lee Alum-
ni Association, former president of the Rail-
road Public Relations Association and _ for-
mer chairman of the National Freedom of
Information Committee of the Associated
Press Managing Editors Association.

1937

WALTER GLEGGE THOMAS has been in the
swimming pool business in the Washington,
D.C., area for 19 years. He does no con-
struction but is a supplier of chemicals and
pool equipment for commercial pools.

1938

WILLIAM H. Byrn, formerly in the news-
paper business and the public relations
field, has retired to Cobbs Creek, Va., where
he is sailing, writing, and building much of
his home.

FRANK JONES JR., who directed Southeastern
sales at Owens-Illinois, Glass Container Di-
vision, for 18 of his 34 years with the com-
pany, retired on July 1. He joined Owens-

September 1975

F. Jones

Illinois in 1941 and during World War II
served in the Army as a counterintelligence
officer. Jones became Atlanta branch mana-
ger in 1954. He and Mrs. Jones are return-
ing to the Tidewater country of Virginia
and are building a home on the Rappa-

hannock River.
1939

HucH P. Avery is now in Seabrook, Texas,
where he is director of institutional serv-
ices for a new branch of the University of
Houston. Primarily he is engaged in _per-
sonnel work and staffing the school.

JoHN T. Fey, chairman of the board of The
Equitable Life Assurance Society of the
United States, has been elected to a six-
year term on the board of trustees of the
College of Insurance. From 1966 to 1974,
Fey was president of National Life Insurance
Co. Before that he served as president of
both the University of Wyoming and the
University of Vermont and as a member of
the board of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Boston. Fey is chairman of the board of
trustees of the American College of Life Un-
derwriters, a trustee of the Church Pension

me hee
£

be

In Atlanta, University Trustee John W.
Warner (right), 49, administrator of the
American Revolution Bicentennial
Administration, presents to George
Goodwin, ’39 chairman of the Atlanta Bi-
centennial Commission, a flag and certificate
designating Atlanta as an official Bi-
centennial community.

 

 

 

 

Jr., 738 S. J. Nastri, ’39

Fund, and a trustee of the Committee on
Economic Development. He is vice chair-
man of the Research Steering Committee of
the Life Insurance Marketing and Research
Association, a member of the executive com-
mittee of the Association of New York State
Life Insurance Companies and a member
of the parish vestry of Trinity Church in
New York City.

GEORGE GOODWIN has been appointed chair-
man of the Atlanta Bicentennial Commis-
sion by Mayor Maynard Jackson.

JOHN D. GoopIN an attorney of Johnson
City, Tenn., was recently elected secretary-

treasurer of Past National Commanders
(former national comanders of veteran
groups).

STANLEY J. NAstTRI has been appointed to
the new post of manager of corporate pur-
chasing system services for the Stanley Works
of New Britain, Conn. Nastri was previously
a systems engineer with General Systems Co.
of Pittsfield, Mass.

RANDOLPH D. Rouse was honored at_ his
home in Fairfax, Va., in June when he be-
came the 1975 national owner-rider, point-to-
point steeple-chase champion. It was the
seventh time in the 15-year history of Severn
Corners competition that Rouse has won.
Alternating between his classic chaser, Free
Movement, and his old favorite hunter, Buen
Paisano, Rouse scored in seven races. Rouse,
former president of the National Steeple-
chase and Hunt Association and master of
the Fairfax Hunt, said he still finds racing
fun.

EpGAR F. SHANNON, a member of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Board of Trustees since 1974,
was a panelist in a discussion of state-level
planning, coordination and governance of
post-secondary education systems at the 1975
annual meeting of the Southern Regional
Education Board. Governors and_ higher
education officials from the 14 Southern
states attended the meeting in Boca Raton,
Fla., in June. Dr. Shannon, president of
the University of Virginia from 1958 to 1973,
is now professor of English there.

194]

JosepH ‘T. Lykes Jr., chairman of Lykes
Bros., Steamship Co. and member of Wash-
ington and Lee’s Board of Trustees, has been
re-elected to the board of directors of the
American Institute of Merchant Shipping.

19

Class Notes

 

ROBERT L. VAN WAGONER continues as execu-
tive director of the Maryland Police and
Correctional Training Commission of the
Department of Public Safety and Correc-

tional Services.
1943

RICHARD M. RoBErRTs has resigned as a de-
puty assistant attorney general in the Tax
Division, Department of Justice, and is now
a partner in the firm of Hamel, Parks, Mc-
Cabe and Saunders in Washington, D.C.

1944

JOHN P. JorDAN has been appointed by the
Exxon Corp. to the position of professional
landman. He presently is serving as land co-
ordinator for the Lafayette production dis-
trict and will continue in that assignment.
Jordan joined the company as a junior title-
man in the East Texas Division in 1953. In

|

D. E. Brown, Jr., ’49

1956, he was transferred to New Orleans
where he performed a variety of land as-
signments in the South Louisiana area, and
in 1963 he was transferred to Lafayette
where he served as a title supervisor and
lease purchase supervisor prior to his pres-
ent assignment. Jordan is the immediate
past president of the Lafayette Petroleum
Landmen’s Association and is currently
serving as a national director of the Ameri-
can Association of Petroleum Landmen. He
is also a member of the Louisiana Bar As-

| 1946

JEROME D. GREENBERG, who is in the mer-
ger and acquisition business and who does
management consultant work under the
name of The Advisory Group, Ltd., is back
in the Philadelphia area after five years in
Palm Beach, Fla. The Greenbergs have four
children.

United Nations Secretary-General Kurt Waldheim (left) and University Trustee

Jack W. Warner, ’41, president and chairman of the board of Gulf States Paper Corp.,
Tuscaloosa, Ala., display a plaque recognizing Gulf States for developing the paper
industry’s most outstanding water pollution control system. The award was presented
at the American Paper Institute’s annual Environmental Improvement luncheon
June 26 at United Nations headquarters. Waldheim spoke at the luncheon.

 

 

 

J. E. Kannapell Jr., ’51

 

1949

Rear ApM. D. EARL BROWN Jr., has assumed
command of the National Naval Medical
Center, Bethesda, Md. At installation cere-
monies on June 25, 1975, the Surgeon Gen-
eral of the Navy, Vice Adm. Donald L. Cus-
tis, delivered the main address. Adm. Brown
also assumed responsibilities for all Naval
health care delivery throughout the Naval
district of Washington. He is the author or
co-author of numerous research papers and
publications and holds many _ professional!
appointments in civic as well as military
societies. Adm. Brown is a fellow of the
American College of Physicians, the Ameri-
can College of Psychiatrists, and the Ameri-
can Psychiatric Association. He has been a
member of the Naval Medical Corps for 22
years. He earned Flight Surgeon’s Wings at
the School of Aviation Medicine in Pensa-
cola, Fla. Following several tours of duty as
psychiatrist at Naval Hospitals, he was ap-
pointed as head of Navy psychiatry at the
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery, Washing-

ton, D.C.
1950

P. JAMEs FAHEY JR. has recently been named
president of the Hagerstown, Md., YMCA.
He will become the eighth president since
its founding in 1917.

ANDREW W. McCuLLocH is currently em-
ployed at NASA-.Goddard Space Flight Cen-
ter where his work is primarily with instru-
ments used on weather satellites. He and his
wife have three children.

195]

JAck E. KANNAPELL JR. has recently opened
a new advertising and design company with
headquarters in Louisville and temporary
offices in Genview, Ky. A veteran of 24 years
in advertising, Kannapell returns to the
agency field after an absence of 10 years.
Since 1965 he has been associated with Glen-
more Distilleries Co. as corporate vice-presi-
dent for advertising, director of corporate

relations.
1952

Following his appointment in January 1975,
HAROLD N. HILL Jr. is serving with distinc-
tion on the Georgia State Supreme Court.
He was formerly with the firm of Jones,
Bird, & Howell of Atlanta.

PAUL D. WEILL is supervisor, Manpower Se-
lection, Life & Variable Annuity Market-

WeL

 

 

2,

ii
oe

L. F. Nock Ill, ’54

\

&
¥

ing Department, Aetna Life and Casualty in
Hartford, Conn. He and his wife, Carole,
have four children. Weill also manages Lit-
tle League teams and referees at high school
and college wrestling matches during the

| 1953

Dr. H. M. LAWRENCE, a fellow of the Ameri-
can College of Surgeons, is in the private
practice of ophthalmology in Chattanooga,
Tenn. He is also clinical associate professor
and head of the Department of Ophthalmo-
logy at the University of Tennessee College
of Medicine Clinical Education Center. He
and his wife have five children.

1954

THE Rev. Davip P. CoMEcys JR. became rec-
tor of St. Luke’s Episcopal Church in San
Antonio, Tex. on May 1, 1975.

BERTRAM S. GRIFFITH has been promoted to
national sales manager of the Dealer Divi-
sion for Bell & Howell Business Equipment
Group. He operates out of Wilmette, III.

THE REv. RICHARD T. HARBISON is minister
of the First Presbyterian Church in Pensa-
cola, Fla.

Dr. Roy C. HERRENKOHL, associate professor
of social psychology at Lehigh University,
has been promoted to the rank of full pro-
fessor. Dr. Herrenkohl is director of Lehigh
Center for Social Research and director of
behavioral research within the Center. Prior
to joining the Lehigh faculty in 1966, he was
a research associate at the Postgraduate
Center for Mental Health in New York City.

L. FLoyp Nock III has received the M.A.
degree in architectural history from the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Architecture.
He has expanded the material in his Mas-
ter’s thesis to a book on the architectural
history of Accomac, Va., a town founded in
1786 on the Eastern Shore. The book will
be published next April. In the meantime,
Nock plans to continue his farming and to
operate his recently organized Shore Res-
toration and Design, a consulting service to
assist in restoring houses and buildings.

1955

Dr. JOHN A. RUTHERFORD, professor of edu-
cation at Radford College, has been named
chairman of Radford’s Department of Ele-
mentary Education. He is also a member of
the Virginia Committee of the Elementary

September 1975

 

R. C. Herrenkohl, ’54

 

D. S. Ernest, ’60

Commission of the Southern Association of
Schools and Colleges. Rutherford holds the
M.A. degree from Virginia Tech and the
Ed.D. degree from the University of Vir-

ginia.
1956

Payson D. (Dick) JOHNSON has been pro-
moted to manager of Champion Interna-
tional’s U.S. Plywood distribution branch in
Seattle, Wash. Johnson joined U.S. Plywood
in 1968 in a sales position at the Baltimore,
Md., distribution branch. In 1970 he was
promoted to sales manager of the Pittsburgh,
Pa. branch, the position he held until his
recent promotion to Seattle branch mana-

ger.
1959

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BERTRAND R. Hup-
NALL II, a daughter, Elizabeth Fleet, on Aug.
2, 1974. On July 1, Hudnall became head-
master of Salem Academy in Winston-Salem,
N.C., one of the oldest girls’ schools in con-
tinuous existence in the country.

DENNIS W. PATTON is senior tax accountant
for Mack Trucks, Inc. He also owns an in-
surance and tax accounting business in

Allentown, Pa.
1960

BIRTH: JupGe and Mrs. CHARLES A. PER-
KINSON JR. a daughter, Trica, on March 4,
1975. Perkinson, an attorney in Lawrence-
ville, Va., also serves as judge of the courts
of the city of Emporia. The Perkinsons have
three children.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM O. GOobDE, a
daughter, Angela Margaret, on April 18,
1975. The family lives in Greensboro, N.C.

ARTHUR BLANK II has recently joined the in-
dustrial real estate firm of Hart Corp. locat-
ed in Huntington Valley, Pa.

Davin S. ERNEsT has joined Brand Adver-
tising, Inc., of Cleveland, Ohio, as manager
of its public relations department. He has
previously served in public relations man-
agement positions with Eaton Corp. and
Goodyear International.

Jack C. GRONER moved in January 1975 to
Baton Rouge, La., and is now corporate
senior vice president in charge of operations
for Blue Cross of Louisiana. He and his wife,
Millie, have three daughters and one son.

WILLIAM G. LOEFFLER has been named ex-
ecutive vice president and a partner in Mc-

W. G. Loeffler, ’60

 

Connell and Associates, Inc., an advertising
agency in Charlotte, N.C. Previous to his
joining McConnell and Associates in 1974,
Loeffler was vice president and account
supervisor of Cargill, Wilson and Acree, Inc.
and was with General Electric Co. as an ad-
vertising and public relations specialist.

WILLOUGHBY NEWTON III has been appointed
general agent of Connecticut Mutual Life's
agency in Columbia, S.C. He joined the com-
pany’s Norfolk agency as an agent in 1966
and became agency supervisor and district
supervisor in Newport News fours years
later. Newton received his chartered life
underwriter’s designation in 1973 and is a
past president of the Peninsula Association
of Life Underwriters.

1961

JAMEs B. CONE is national sales manager
for Dicomed Corp., a manufacturer of image
data processing equipment used in space,
medical, and research programs. He and his
wife, Annette, live in Minneapolis, Minn.

Lewis P. NELson III, vice president of First
and Merchants National Bank, has been
named treasurer and chairman of the Fi-
nance Committee of Virginia Union Uni-
versity. He also serves as a member of the
school’s board of trustees. In addition to
these duties, Nelson is also a vestryman and
treasurer of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church and
recently completed the executive program
at the Colgate Darden Graduate School of
Business Administration, University of Vir-

ginia.
1962

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLark D. VALENTIN-
ER, a son, Clark David II, on Aug. 1, 1974.
Valentiner is in partnership in a John Deere
farm equipment dealership in Elizabeth-
town, N.C.

R. Ray Goopwin II is serving his 10th year
as an account executive with Merrill Lynch
& Co. in Augusta, Ga. Recently the Good-
wins moved to their 17-acre farm in Evans,
Ga., where they enjoy their three children,
and Ray raises cattle.

Dr. R. BRYAN MILLER is now an associate
professor of chemistry at the University of
California, Davis. He and his family have
just returned from a sabbatical leave in Rio
de Janerio. Miller was working with the
Centro de Pesquisas de Productos Naturais
on natural products chemistry. His wife,

21

 

 

a brother, Chris Herchold, ’70, and Dave
Marchese ’66. Others attending the service
were Ed Bishop, Don O’Hare and Les Locke,
all of the Class of 1968, and Mrs. Betty Mun-
ger, manager of the Washington and Lee
Bookstore.

MARRIED: JOHN R. CRIGLER and Martha
Lee Manning of Springfield, Va., on June
14, 1975. Crigler continues as a consulting
Statistician at the Naval Surface Weapons
Center in Dahlgren, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. WHITE-
HEAD JR., a son, James III, on June 15, 1975.
Whitehead, after receiving his master’s de-

Estate Planning Notes

 

gree from the American School of Inter-
national Business Management in ‘Tucson,
Ariz., is now associated with the Texas Com-
merce Bank in Houston.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN LAWRENCE JpR.,
a daughter, Heather Sevey, on Feb. 23, 1975.
Lawrence graduated in June from the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Law and is now
an associate in the Hartford, Conn., law
firm of Robinson, Robinson and Cole.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip T. JOHNSON
Jr., a daughter, Elizabeth Page, on June 17,
1975. She joins an older brother. Johnson,
after release from active duty with the U.S.

 

J. Lawrence Jr., ’68

Navy, is now a practicing attorney in Char-
lotte, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. R. K. CHRISTOVICH,
a son, James Pope, on March 4, 1975. The
family lives in New Orleans.

Dr. PAUL ATWATER, now practicing emer-
gency medicine in San Francisco, expects to
take a position at the University of Georgia
Health Center in Athens, Ga. effective Octo-
ber 1975.

After graduating from the Vanderbilt Uni-
versity School of Law, JAMES W. BARTLETT is
in private practice in Baltimore, Md.

~ Charitable Remainder Annuity Trusts

~4y

Almost one quarter of Washington
and Lee’s student body receive financial
aid in order to attend the University.
The amount needed to provide this aid
has increased dramatically in recent years
and appears likely to continue upward.

Many alumni and friends have gen-
erously provided capital funds for this
purpose, setting aside a portion of their
resources in order that the Washington
and Lee experience may be made avail-
able as widely as possible. They have
done this in various ways — through
outright gifts of cash, securities or land,
through bequest or through contributions
to Washington and Lee’s Pooled Income
Fund.

Recently, one alumnus has assured
that a scholarship fund will some day be
established in his memory by creating a
charitable remainder annuity trust. This
trust will pay our alumnus a fixed in-
come for the remainder of his life.
Thereafter, the trust property will be
added to the endowment of the Univer-
sity, and its yield will provide scholar-
ships for deserving students from the
donor’s home state.

By sharing some of his funds with
Washington and Lee, this alumnus is

September 1975

perpetuating educational ideals in which
he believes and can be certain that a por-
tion of his capital will never lose its
usefulness, never cease to be productive.
‘There are few ways in which one can so
strongly influence the future as by the
provision of educational opportunities
for generations to come.

Our alumnus has also helped himself
in significant ways by creating the an-
nuity trust. Because of the gift which he
has made to Washington and Lee — a
gift to take effect at a future date — he
may claim an immediate income tax de-
duction amounting to almost 60% of
the fair market value of the property
transferred to the trust, although his
cost basis in that property was less than
49, of its fair market value. He has been
able to diversify his investments and in-
crease his yield from the donated proper-
ty without incurring capital gain tax on
the large increase in its value. When the
trust terminates, there will also be estate
tax savings based on the value of the
trust property at that time.

The income to be paid the donor
during his lifetime is fixed and will not
vary with the fluctuations of the market.
The donor is relieved of concern for the

administration and investment of his pro-
perty.

These attractive features are making
charitable remainder trusts a popular
way for those interested in private educa-
tion to support their Alma Mater and
to protect their families and _ preserve
their property.

An annuity trust is a particularly good
way to provide a fixed income for a rela-
tively short period of time for a family
member who has an identified need —
an aging relative in a nursing home, for
example, or a grandchild with a certain
number of years of expensive education
ahead of him. Income from the trust can
be paid to such a family member for a
period of up to 20 years with the prin-
cipal then coming to Washington and
Lee. Tax incentives available to the
donor of such a trust may make it a most
inexpensive way to contribute significant-
ly to the future of Washington and Lee.

If you would like more information
about charitable remainder trusts, please
write or call:

Office of University Development
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450

(703) 463-9111 Ext. 285 or 298

23

by First Kentucky
74, he received his

he were ordained as ae Jal i to repre-
“sent | the Community cae at a

 

 

 

 

 

office. Honig ae ber ae jeg wit i m KL > s BERT (See 1968). _ the Mediterranean. His ship recently made a
chook bia om the Harvard ee 7 visit to Leningrad. Moore anticipates enter-
School. | he served as a_ a lS Ie oe ing law Schoo! at the ned of Virginia —

a tne anager

4
}
a
as
i

 

 

 

Hartford, NY.

oe

 

 

+

and Lee, Martire worked for the Hearst
newspaper organization. He later became a
sports editor and in 1937 became assistant
editor of the Nyack, N.Y., Journal News.
Martire joined the radio news staff of the
Columbia Broadcasting System in the early
1940s. He left that position to become a
correspondent with the American Red Cross
in the Pacific and later in occupied Ger-
many. While in the Pacific he covered the
Japanese surrender aboard the U.S.S. Mis-
sourt. In 1948, Martire joined the staff of
Tax Foundation in New York City as a wri-
ter and editor. He was later named director
of public education for the foundation. He
served in that capacity until illness forced
his retirement in 1974.

JOHN Quincy TANNEHILL, owner and presi-
dent of the Tannehill Cattle & Oil Co. of
King City, Calif., died Feb. 1, 1975.

1937

HERBERT A, PORTER JR., former president of
Winter Paper Stock Co. of Louisville, Ky.,
died June 24, 1975. At the time he was liv-
ing in Tampa, Fla. Porter retired from Win-
ter Paper in 1970.

1942

Dr. EDMUND M. FOUNTAIN, a prominent neu-
rosurgeon in Houston, died July 14, 1975.
He was graduated in medicine from the
Johns Hopkins University and was later
trained in neurosurgery in Montreal and
Boston. During World War II, Fountain
served in the U.S. Army Medical Corps in
Colorado and at Walter Reed Army Hospi-
tal in Washington, D.C. In Houston, Dr.
Fountain practiced principally at Methodist
Hospital. He also was a clinical professor of
neurosurgery at Baylor College of Medicine.
Fountain also was active in Project Hope,
the people to people program founded by
President Eisenhower, which provided medi-
cal help to poor nations through the hospi-
tal ship Hope. He served six voyages on the
ship, visiting such countries as Brazil, Colom-
bia, Nicaragua and Ceylon. Fountain had
been president of the Houston Surgical Soc-
iety and the Houston Neurosurgical Society.

1944

WILLIAM FREDERICK ALLISON, director of cor-
porate and foundation giving at Syracuse
University, died Oct. 29, 1974. Before join-
ing Syracuse, in 1968, Allison was owner and
operator of an insurance agency.

Sentembher 1975

 

 

Cap'n Dick dies at age S6

Richard Andrew (Cap’n Dick) Smith
died Aug. 15 at the age of 86. He was
athletic director at Washington and Lee
for 33 years, coach of baseball for 30
years, coach of basketball for five years,
and a revered figure in the University
community for more than half a century.

Cap’n Dick radiated good humor. He
smiled a lot. He was always ready with
an amusing story. He made people com-
fortable. He was energetic almost to the
last.

Washington and Lee President Ro-
bert E. R. Huntley said of him: “Cap’n
Dick Smith has been an institution at
Washington and Lee. It is from persons
like him that this school has derived its
strength and character over the cen-
turies. I shall miss him sorely, as will his
many friends. He will never be forgotten
at Washington and Lee.”

Cap’n Dick first came to Washington
and Lee as a student in 1909, after gra-
duating from Fishburne Military School,
where he excelled in baseball and foot-
ball. He was an outstanding second base-
man on the Washington and Lee base-
ball team, although an old shoulder in-
jury forced him to throw underhand.
After graduating from W&L in 1912, he
spent nine years at Fishburne as coach
and teacher. In 1921, he began his long
career at W&L. Along with the athletic
duties, he found time to teach freshman
math for a number of years.

Baseball was his delight. He was the
W&L coach from 1922 to 1952. His teams
won 248, lost 253, tied seven, won a
Southern Conference championship and
several championships of what was then
the Virginia Big Six, the last of these
during his last year as coach. Several of
his players went on to play professional
baseball, the most notable of whom was
pitcher Emerson Dickman of the Boston
Red Sox.

 

 

Friends have established a fund at
Washington and Lee in memory of
Cap’n Dick; contributions to the
fund may be sent to the Alumni
Office.

 

 

 

Washington and Lee named its base-
ball field in honor of Cap’n Dick.

He coached basketball from 1926 to
1930. His teams won the state champion-
ship every year he coached, although
there were only five players on the squad
each year. He was frank about why he
quit coaching basketball: “I had three
great ball players. When they left school,
it was time for me to get out.”

Cap’n Dick was an honored guest
when Washington and Lee opened the
new addition to Doremus Gymnasium
with special ceremonies four years ago.

Washington and Lee’s celebrated con-
crete footbridge soaring from Doremus
Gymnasium across Woods Creek and the
railroad tracks to Wilson Field, is a kind
of monument to Cap’n Dick. He had the
bridge built in 1927 at a cost of $30,000,
all of which the athletic department had
to put up. In those days, the department
was expected to pay its own way.

Cap’n Dick was influential in ruling
circles of the old Southern Conference.
He was chairman of the conference base-
ball committee and also a member of
the NCAA baseball committee. When he
retired, he was dean of Southern Con-
ference athletic directors. He had held
his position longer than any of his con-
ference colleagues.

Cap’n Dick tended to play down his
duties as athletic director. He once said,
“There are so many different things to
do it never gets monotonous. I’d hate to
say exactly what I do, except that I’m
sort of an athletes’ chaplain. And I make
out the schedules.”

Cap’n Dick retired in 1954 upon
reaching the age of 65. But he continued
for several years to work in W&L athle-
tics as an advisor. He was a frequent
visitor on campus until his final illness.

He acquired and maintained a large
dairy farm near Lexington and spent
a lot of time there, although he main-
tained a residence in town. He was an
enthusiastic gardener and generously dol-
ed out fresh vegetables to all his friends.

_9IR

He was an avid hunter of small game and
could talk for hours about the sport. And
friends said he was the only man in
Rockbridge County who could talk in-
telligently to fish. He served on Lex-
ington’s town council from 1947 to 1951.
He was a leader in the R. E. Lee Me-
morial Episcopal Church and in many
civic and charitable causes.

One of his favorite stories was how
he dispatched Supreme Court Justice
Lewis F. Powell Jr., who was then the
W&L football manager, to Norfolk to
recruit Leigh Williams, who turned out
to be one of Washington and Lee’s most
outstanding athletes.

He also liked to tell how he himself
almost “got away” from W&L. As a base-
ball player, he was offered a $50 scholar-
ship in 1909 by W&L, but the tuition
was $85.

“I couldn’t see putting out $35,” ne
said, “so I took my trunk down to the
railroad station and was all ready to go
to Davidson College, where I knew I'd
get a better deal. But some fellow pulled
my trunk off the train and said, ‘Stick
around another day, it won’t hurt.’ Well,
I stayed another day and they fixed me
up with another $50 scholarship. They
weren’t supposed to give but one, but I
got two. Then I had $15 change, and
that went for six months’ room rent.”

It happened that he then rented half
the room to Harry Moran, a standout
baseball pitcher at W&L, for. $5 a
month. Cap’n Dick from then on was
very shrewd with dollars.

Cap’n Dick’s wife, the former Champe
Carter Thompson, died in Lexington in
1973. He is survived by a son, Richard
W. Smith, a 1941 graduate of W&L, a
lawyer and former mayor of Staunton; a
brother, J. Rixey Smith of St. Petersburg,
Fla.; a sister, Mrs. Genevieve S. Scott of
Waynesboro, and three grandchildren.

A memorial service was held at R. E.
Lee Memorial Church in Lexington; he
was buried in the Masonic Cemetery at
Culpeper, near his birthplace.

 

1946

EUGENE CLAIBOURNE FULWIDER, a long-time
resident of Raphine, Va., died July 2, 1975.

1948

WALTER E. FAUSEL, a former manager for
the Trenton, N.J., regional office of the
Social Security Administration, died Nov. 6,
1974. Fausel saw active duty with the U.S.
Army Air Corps during World War II.

1950

RoBerT E. EARLY, a former government re-
lations specialist and correspondent, died
July 20, 1975. He had handled government
relations for the Milk Producers Associa-
tion from 1971 to 1974. Prior to that, Early
had been on the government relations staff
of the Columbia Broadcasting System in
Washington, D.C. from 1960 to 1971. He was
a corporate officer for CBS and was repre-
sentative for all of the CBS divisions and
subsidiary companies. Early was a congres-
sional correspondent and later a White
House correspondent for the U.S. Informa-
tion Agency before joining CBS. He was a
member of Sigma Delta Chi, the journalism
fraternity, the National Press Club, and the
Washington Golf and Country Club.

J. Nixon DANIEL, Pensacola attorney and
civic leader, died May 7, 1975. Daniel was
a leader in professional activities, having
served as president of the Society of the
Bar of the First Judicial Circuit and as a
member of the Florida Bar Board of Gov-
ernors, 1959-1962. He was a member of the
Florida Board of Bar Examiners and past
chairman of the Florida Bar’s Continuing
Legal Education Committee. Daniel was past
president of the Children’s Home Society,
Western Division, past president of the Pen-
sacola Junior Chamber of Commerce, and
past president and a director of the Pen-
sacola Young Men’s Christian Association.
He was a vice president and a member of
the board of directors of the Baptist Hospi-
tal and a member of the board of directors
of Mutual Federal Savings and Loan As-

sociation.
Frep A. SIEGLER died Feb. 17, 1975. Siegler

had been on a stay in India, where he in-
curred a lung disease.

WALTER WILLIAM ALBERS died May 19, 1975.
He was a resident of Wytheville, Va.

Wel

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

WOODS CREEK APARTMENTS—PAGE 10

 

 

 

 

 

