JANUARY 1973

iversity

S
s
YU
UY
md
oO

f washington an

1 Magazine O

the alumn

 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 48, Number 1, January 1973

William C. Washburn 740.000.000.000. cece Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...............00.0.... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ...........000000...cccceeeeeeeeees Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter... Editorial Assistant
Robert Lockhart... eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

The Reeves Collection of Rare Porcelain ............ ]
Special Alumni Conference—1972 .0.......0.0.... 7
Has W&L Changed All That Much? .....00..000000... 13
W&L’s 10th Rhodes Scholar 0.000.000.0000 16
A Growing List of Public Servants .......00..000...000.... 24
Fall Athletic Roundup oo... 26
Homecoming-Fall Reunions—1972 20.0000... 28
Chapter News 2.0.0.0... ce eeeeeeeeeeeeeeetteetee 30
CTANG TRONS cokes elec cccceeeeneneensseees ee 32
Tee WRG ath fone lees cccccceecneeese net. 35
Name Your Candidate ...............0000cceeceeeeetteeee: 36

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

A. CHRISTIAN COMPTON, 750, Richmond, Va.
President

Upton BEALL, 751, Tyler, ‘Texas
Vice President

T. Hat CxarKkE, 38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WasHBurN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

RicHARD D. Haynes, 758, Dallas, ‘Texas
WILLIAM H. HIuter, 738, Chicago, Ill.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, JR., 58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce Houecy, III, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
THEODORE M. Kerr, 57, Midland, ‘Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, 50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. ALVIN PHILPOTT, 45, Lexington, N.C.
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, 755, New Orleans, La.
EvERETT TuckKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the covers: Our front and back covers show two
superb examples from the Reeves Collection of
Chinese export porcelain owned by Washington
and Lee University. On the front is an unusual
double-handled tea cup bearing the Great Seal of
the United States. On the back is a plate depicting
a Chinese artist’s conception of Don Quixote in
search of adventure. Other examples from the col-
lection along with notes about its history and its
meaning to W&L appear on the following pages.
Photographs by Tom Bradshaw.

 

 

;
,

by James W. Whitehead

The Reeves Collection:

—an unusual gift

 

In 1967, Washington and Lee
University received an uncommon
gift—the Reeves Collection of fine
porcelain. The collection, consisting
of more than 2,000 items of ceramic art
dating from the late seventeenth
century through the first half of the
twentieth, has intrinsic aesthetic
value. The collection is also remark-
able in that it complements in many
ways the history and heritage of the
University and forms tangible links
with some of the men and events
that shaped our nation, now ap-
proaching its 200th anniversary.

‘Take, for instance, the two items

 

 

James W. Whitehead has been treasurer
and secretary of the University since 1966.

January, 1973

pictured on the covers of this maga-
zine. On the front is a double-
handled tea cup of Chinese export
porcelain, circa 1800, showing the
Great Seal of the United States.

On the back is a dinner plate of
Chinese export porcelain, circa 1750,
picturing a scene from Don Quixote.
These works of art are related in time
and substance. One can take the
liberty of associating elements in the
dream of the man of La Mancha
with the dream that fired the hearts
of the American colonists during the
latter part of the eighteenth century.
The works span a period in Ameri-
can history when the dream of liberty
was conceived, nearly lost, and then
forged into an enduring reality. It

 

HONG BOWL—Decoration in polychrome
showing the 13 Hongs, a word meaning
“places of business” where Americans and
Europeans dealt with the Chinese merchants
in Canton. Flags of the nations conducting
business in Canton may be seen flying from
poles in front of their respective Hong locat-
ed along the Pearl River. Visible on this view
of the bowl are the American, Swedish, and
British flags. Foreigners were not permitted
outside the Hong area and were confined to
a space approximately one-fourth of a mile
long and 700 feet wide. Circa 1790.

 

was during this same period, in 1749,
that another dream took shape that
resulted in the founding of Augusta
Academy, later to become Wash-
ington and Lee University.

Indeed, the histories of the nation
and of the University are remarkably
parallel, and many of the same men
played crucial roles in the survival
and ultimate success of each. In
1776, the trustees of Augusta Acad-
emy, caught up in Revolutionary
fervor, changed the name to Liberty
Hall. ‘Two decades later, George
Washington endowed the school with
an unprecendented gift of $50,000,
and grateful trustees renamed the in-
stitution in his honor. The Civil
War left Washington College in
physical and spiritual ruin. Robert
E. Lee became its president, and with
outstanding progressive foresight
brought the classical academy to an
honored position in American higher
education. After Lee’s death in
1870, the trustees linked his name
with that of Washington, honoring
“in fit conjunction” the two Gen-
erals whose influence provides an
abiding and distinctive characteristic
of the University today—honor among
men and constancy of purpose.

It was precisely this influence
that impelled Euchlin D. Reeves, a
1927 graduate of the Washington

SIGNING OF THE DECLARATION OF
INDEPENDENCE—Helmet creamer in poly-
chrome; Chinese artist’s interpretation of
the “signing.” Engravings of John Trum-
bull’s painting of “The Declaration of In-
dependence” may have been used as a guide.
The signers have oriental features. About
1825-1850.

2

 

“4RMS AND LIBERTY”—Bowl in polychrome; cartouches show John Wilkes, the English
political satirist, and his judge Lord Chief Justice Mansfield. The motto under Wilkes reads:
“Always Ready in a Good Cause”; and under Mansfield: “Justice sans Petid.” Wilkes advocat-
ed independence for the colonies and was expelled from Westminister. Circa 1774.

 

WeL

 

 

 

January,

1973

 

FITZHUGH PATTERN—Plate in underglaze orange; center decoration from the
Great Seal of the United States, with border showing traditional Chinese elements
and the Greek fret. Circa 1790.

and Lee School of Law, to acquire
the nucleus of a collection of porce-
lain having historic significance.
Through a mutual interest in collect-
ing, he met and later married Louise
C. Herreshoft of Providence, R. I.
Together they assembled porcelain
for 25 years—until their deaths in
1967. ‘Their collection filled 200
barrels when it came to the Univer-
sity five years ago.

Although the Reeves Collection
includes pieces from the major porce-
lain factories of Europe and England
—Meissen, Hochst, Ludwigsburg,
Vienna, Vincennes, Sevres, Worcester,
Chelsea, Bow, Liverpool, Leeds, and
a number of others—Mr. and Mrs.
Reeves’ principal concentration was
in mid-eighteenth and early nine-
teenth century Chinese export porce-
lain made and decorated in China.

Americans acquired the Chinese
porcelain along with many other
necessities through the English East
India Company before the Revolu-
tion. Heavy duties placed by England
on tea and other essential items was
among the major causes of the
colonial revolt. Shortly after ratifica-
tion of the peace treaty with Eng-
land, the first American trade ship
Empress of China sailed from New
York bound for the Orient, in-
augurating a successful trade that
continued into the nineteenth
century.

SHIPS WITH AMERICAN FLAG—Sugar,
creamer, and small plate; marine trading
vessels with American flag. Painted in poly-
chrome. Circa 1795.

3

‘The items from the Reeves Col- students.

 

lection pictured on these pages are Numbers of items in the collec-
representative of the wares most tion are being identified and cata-
cherished by Americans during the logued with the assistance of students
early period of trade with China. on independent study in the fine arts
‘The meaning of the Reeves Col- and by other interested students and
lection to Washington and Lee has faculty members.
many facets. Some of the items are Selected pieces from the Reeves
simply priceless. Others, as already Collection are on display on campus:
mentioned, are significantly associated major Chinese export items, includ-
with the history of the United States ing the tea set that by tradition
and with the heritage of Washington — belonged to Paul Revere is in the
and Lee. Many items of just sheer Lee Chapel Museum; Meissen of
beauty further enlarge what has the eighteenth century, including
always been one of the objectives of figurines by the artisan Kaendler
the University—the enhancement of are in the President’s House; items
the aesthetic experience of its from important English factories,

MOUNT VERNON DECORATION-—A de-
tail from a porcelain beaker depicting Mount
Vernon, showing the columns, cupola, de-
pendent buildings, and view of the Potomac.
Painted in sepia. Circa 1800.

 

WASHINGTON MEMORIAL CUP—Commemorating the death of
President Washington in 1799, items of export porcelain showing a
tomb, surmounted by an eagle with drooped wings and a weeping
willow tree to the side, were made for the American trade. Painted
in sepia. Circa 1800.

WASHINGTON-“SOCIETY OF THE CINCINNATI’—Plate; border
in underglaze blue Fitzhugh pattern with center decoration showing
trumpeting Fame holding badge of the Society of the Cincinnati.
Washington was the first president of the Society, and with the as-
sistance of Colonel Henry (Light Horse Harry) Lee acquired in 1787 a
300-piece set of chinaware with the Cincinnati eagle. The set de-
scended to George Washington Parke Custis, and then to his daugh-
ter, Mrs. Robert E. Lee, and subsequently it became the possession
of Miss Mary Lee, a daughter of General Lee. The illustrated
plate was a part of that service.

4 WeL

 

ARMS OF THE STATE OF
NEW YORK-—Small plate
with center decoration of an
imperfect version of the
New York Coat of Arms.
Enamel colors with Statues

of Liberty and Justice. Circa
1795,

January, 1973

 

 

——
Ho > Mnvanannvanatit
2
We »_NNUUNaE AN

 

LEE FAMILY CUP—Coat of Arms in polychrome of
the Lee family of Coton Hall, County Shropshire,
England, from which the Lees of Virginia descended.
The motto “Virtus Vera Est Nobilities” appears on the
streamer. The reverse side of the cup shows a squirrel,
a decoration taken from the crest of the Lee family.
The two lower quarters of the arms, in reverse, form
the lower two quarters of the coat of arms of Wash-
ington and Lee University. (Compare with crest above).
The motto “Non Incautus Futuri” as used on the arms
of General Lee’s family and by the University may
have been adopted in the new world by Colonel
Richard Lee, the emigrant to Virginia. Circa 1736.
On loan from Sheldon Arpad.

 

including Worcester, Wedgwood,
and Liverpool, are displayed in the
Fairfax Lounge of the University
Center; Chinese export items dating
to the period of American independ-
ence are exhibited in the lobby of
Tucker Hall; rotating shows of
porcelain are on view in special
display cases in the foyer of the Uni-
versity Ivheatre; and items of porce-
lain belonging to Presidents Wash-
ington, John Adams, Monroe, John
Quincy Adams, Jackson, Van Buren,
‘Tyler, Polk, Lincoln, Franklin,
Hayes, and Benjamin Harrison are
exhibited in the reception area of
Washington Hall.

‘The first major exhibition of the
Reeves Collection of Chinese export
porcelain will open Feb. 23 and
continue until April at the High
Museum of Art in Atlanta, Ga. Over
200 items will be on display in At-
lanta, covering a major period of
China trade with the Western World.
The exhibit is part of the Univer-
sity’s program relating to the U.S.
Bicentennial to be celebrated in 1976.

At the same time, the exhibition
is a tribute to the historically and
aesthetically important pursuit of
porcelain by Mr. and Mrs. Reeves
and also to their scholarly achieve-
ments in the field.

Indeed, theirs was an extra-
ordinary gift.

DeWITT CLINTON—Platter made for De-
Witt Clinton and his wife, Maria Franklin
Clinton, with their cipher in gold. Border
and center decorations are in the oriental
manner. Clinton served in the U. S. Senate,
then as Mayor of New York City, and later
as Governor of New York State. Painted in
polychrome. About 1796.

 

“REBECCA AT THE WELL”—Plaie in polychrome, center decoration showing the manserv-
ant of Abraham being given water by Rebecca, prospective bride of Isaac. Circa 1750.

NATIVITY—Plate, so-called “Jesuit type,’ commonly applied to items thought to be in-
fluenced by Jesuit missionaries stationed in the porcelain city of Ching-te-Chen in the first
half of the eighteenth century. The scene is painted in black, grey, and highlighted in gold.
Circa 1750. Other items with religious subjects in the Reeves Collection include the Baptism,
painted in iron-red; the Crucifixion, painted in polychrome, the Resurrection in grisaille,
and a plate with a painting of Martin Luther with a cartouche showing Jesus and His
disciples.

 

CANTON IN CHINA, 24TH JANY. 1791—Reverse side of the plate on the right bearing the
Coat of Arms of the Chadwick family. Markings of any kind on the back were unusual on
items of Chinese export porcelain.

6

REFERENCES

Beurdeley, Michel. Chinese Trade Porcelain.
Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Company,
1962.

Crossman, Carl L. A Design Catalogue of
Chinese Export Porcelain for the American
Market. Salem, Mass.: Peabody Museum,
1964.

Efird, Mrs. J. Ray, and Farnham, Mrs. Clay-
ton H. Exhibition from Georgia Collectors—
China Trade Porcelain. Atlanta, Ga.: The
High Museum of Art, 1969.

Gordon, Horace W. and Elinor. Oriental
Lowestoft. Published by Elinor Gordon, 1959.

Hyde, J. A. Lloyd. Oriental Lowestoft, Chin-
ese Export Porcelain. Newport, Monmouth-
shire: The Ceramic Book Company, 1954.

Mudge, Jean McClure. Chinese Export Por-
celain for the American Trade, 1785-1835,
Newark, Del.: University of Delaware Press,
1962.

Phillips, John Goldsmith. China-Trade Por-
celain. London: Phaidon Press Ltd., 1956.

Stockwell, David Hunt. Chinese Export Por-
celain and Enamels. Wilmington, Del.: The
Wilmington Society of Fine Arts, 1957.

WeL

 

by A. Christian Compton, °50

On Not Being Milked: A Report
on the Special Alumni Conference

A. Christian Compton, ’50, a judge of the Law and
Equity Court of the City of Richmond, is president of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Association. In the
following article, he reports on his experience as a dele-
gate to the special Alumni Conference in November.
His remarks are made against the background of an
editorial on the conference that appeared in the Ring-
tum Phi. Thus the article amounts to a student-alumnus
dialogue worthy of the attention of all WeL alumni.

This is a piece on the Fifth Special Alumni Confer-
ence held on Nov. 16, 17, and 18 on the campus. Be-
fore continuing on, you should have the benefit of the
editorial which appeared in the Nov. 29 issue of the
Ring-tum Phi written by its editor, Norwood E. (Skip)
Paukert, Jr., a senior from Marietta, Ga.

ON MILKING THE ALUMNI

Just before we all took off for the Thanksgiving
holidays, the University sponsored its fifth annual con-
ference for what was termed as a “select group of
alumni.” The lofty purpose, as stated in the program
brochure, was “to provide better communication and
understanding between alumni and members of the
University family—faculty, students, and administra-
tion.”

Of course, most W&L students, being the cynical
rascals that they are, probably thought this was nothing
but a ploy to milk the alumni for some development
cash. Crotchety, old alumni would be herded around
by a carefully-picked cadre of conventionally-dressed
student leaders—all the right answers would be given
to all those silly alumni-type questions. And after they
had been humored and reassured, the alumni would go
back home and send checks flowing back to campus.

But lo, and behold, this conference was different.
To be sure, a primary goal of the administration during
this gathering was to impress the alumni with what we
were doing here, so that they would leave Lexington
feeling generous toward our ambitious fund-raising
campaigns. These alumni, not being a particularly
Stupid lot, realized this.

Yet there were many aspects of this conference which
demonstrated a sincere effort to avoid the hideous

January, 1973

 

 

 

Norwood E. Paukert, Jr., (right) listens intently to an alumnus.

Special Conference Report

 

scenario outlined above. First, the alumni came from
all parts of the country, from all sorts of professions—
in short, were anything but a purely upper-crust source
for contributions. Secondly, many of the students in-
vited to meet with the alumni had no special excuse
(i.e., campus officer, editor, etc.) but were there to par-
ticipate as students.

What was really astonishing about this particular
conference was the attentiveness and interest shown by
the alumni involved. Of course, since they arrived hot
on the heels of a drug bust and since many of these
men had not been back to Lexington since coats and
ties disappeared, many of the expected questions got
asked.

But, by and large, the seminars and discussions did

program. One alumnus spoke up and asked, why not
contact the area alumni, and have them bring the pro-
spective student to campus? Several other alumni, one
after another, proceeded to offer his help in working
in their localities with recruitment and admissions pro-
jects.

Certainly, we should not be scared of our alumni.
They are not the collection of reactionary bogeymen
we sometimes think them to be. Given explanations
and reasons, they understand and accept the change
that W&L has seen and is destined to see.

The most successful universities in the country, in
endowment and prestige, owe their progress in large
part to hardworking alumni. Several ivy-league schools
have alumni, particularly recent graduates, working

not dwell on these issues, but focused on a whole var- directly with the admissions office, conducting inter- 6
iety of problems, from black recruitment to upperclass views and seeking out prospective freshmen.
housing. We have not given our alumni enough to do. At

If any major conclusion could be drawn from these present, our own Admissions Office has a pilot program
sessions, it was that the administration is failing to along these lines. We urge the administration and ,
utilize these energetic graduates to anywhere near their faculty to realize that alumni can be more than a dollar
potential. For example, during one discussion a couple source and to come up with more imaginative ap- s
of students were complaining that lack of funds pre- proaches for getting them directly involved in Univer- 4

cluded any real progress in the black recruitment

 

sity affairs.

 

 

4

Seriousness marked student-alumni conversations. t

Law School coed gets in a few words.

8 WeL *-

 

Now that you have read that excellent editorial you
deserve a few impressions from an alumnus who attend-
ed the conference.

At the outset, it should be recorded that this con-
ference was a complete success. Not only was each event,
and the entire conference, well-planned, but more im-
portantly, those students and members of the admini-
stration and faculty charged with the responsibility of
leading the workshop sessions gave full and frank an-
swers to the many searching questions put by the con-
ferees.

It is the desire of the University—and this aim has the
full support of the Alumni Board of Directors—that each
alumnus be thoroughly informed about every phase of
W&L’s current operations and its future plans. Of course,
the best way for each person to obtain this information
first hand is by being physically present on the campus
to talk with and consult with members of the admini-
stration, the faculty, and the student body. ‘This oppor-

January, 1973

 

 

 

Alumnus (above) puts a
question to students. Ses-
sion on “The New Curricu-
lum and Academic Affairs”
(left) led to lively
discussion.

tunity is now being afforded by way of the alumni con-
ferences which have been conducted on five occasions
beginning in 1966.

This year more than 50 alumni spanning the years
from the Class of 1917 through the Class of 1969—and
many bringing their wives—came from such villages as
Dallas and Akron and points east. ‘The two full days of
working sessions covered topics relating to the impact
of the new undergraduate curriculum; student life to-
day; the manner in which the University is governed
and administered, including matters of finance; and,
the current status of the physical planning and its re-
lationship to the Development Program. Participating
in the seminars and readily available throughout the
entire conference for private discussions was the full
first team which included, among many others, the Rec-
tor of the University Board of Trustees, the President of
the University, the President of the Student Body, the
Dean of the School of Law, the Dean of the School of

9

Special Conference Report

 

Commerce, Economics and Politics, the Dean of Stu-
dents, the Dean of the College, the Director of Admis-
sions, the Director of Athletics, the University ‘Treasurer,
and the Director of University Development.

One of the many fringe benefits afforded the con-
ferees was a manual of 135 pages containing exhaustive
facts and figures on every aspect of the general discus-
sion topics already mentioned. For example, it contains
a copy of the charter of the University and its current
by-laws. Found therein is a comparison of the current-
fund revenues and expenditures for the last three fiscal
years. The enrollment pattern by subject for the last six
years is set forth. The drug policy of the University is
contained therein. A School of Law fact summary is in-
cluded with detailed admissions statistics. In short, found
in this publication is “everything you have always want-
ed to know about Washington and Lee but were always
afraid to ask.’’ Frank Parsons, Assistant to the President,
was primarily responsible for the preparation of this

Frank A. Parsons, Assistant
to President Huntley,
(head of table) led session
on “The Campus
Tomorrow.”

10

book as well as for the organization of the conference.
The real benefit from an exercise such as this is the
opportunity for those of us of the crew-cut, narrow-collar,
thin-tie, white-buck-saddle shoe era, to observe, inquire,
and engage in debate with the present-day administrator,
faculty member, and student in an informal campus set-
ting. ‘“Plugged-in” to each seminar were students of all
points of view. The president of the Interfraternity
Council was there. The president of the Student Associa-
tion for Black Unity was there. The editor of the Ring-
tum Phi was there. The liberals and the conservatives
were there. In some instances the discussions became quite
volatile, but were always constructive. As would be ex-
pected, the main interests of the alumni, as demonstrat-
ed by their inquiries, dealt with the subjects of coeduca-
tion, with the drug problem, with the expansion of the
physical plant, with the Honor System, with the athletic
program on a nonsubsidized basis, with the role played
by the black student, with the role of the fraternities,

 

Wel

¥
ros
seh
te
a

oy

cA,

.
_

eee

 

Special Conference Report

 

 

days on the campus, and especially to take part in an William J. Russell, Jr., ’57 Charles A. Sweet, ’36
alumni conference, will find that all is well at Wash- Malvern, Pa. Bristol, Conn.
ington and Lee. The hope here is that these conferences Paul ESN ain Everett Tucker, Jr., ‘34
; White Plains, N. Y. Little Rock, Ark.

will be continued annually.

I. M. Sheffield, III, ’53 Jerome Turner, ’64

Atlanta, Ga. Memphis, ‘Tenn.

Alumni who are interested in learning what other Nee ‘69 George J. Tzangas, ‘56

delegates thought of the conference are urged to get oe ee
. . . . Arthur Clarendon Smith, Jr., 41 Richard C. Vierbuchen, 50
in touch with them. The list of delegates follows: Chevy! Giake aa Betheaias dads

Joseph J. Smith, III, ’60 Thomas P. Winborne, ’51
i, Harvey Allen, Jr., 61 Robert P. Hawkins, III, 60 Washington, Cincinnati, Ohio
Dallas, Tex. Devon, Pa. :

Clovis M. Snyder, ’51 P. B. Winfree, III, 59
I. Tommy Baker, ’55 Richard D. Haynes, ’58-L Hagerstown, Md. Lexington, Va.
Lexington, Va. Dallas, ‘Tex.
Jack J. Stark, *32 Stuard A. Wurzburger, ’28
George F. Bauer, ’38 Mason Hendrickson, ’44 Belpre, Ohio Lexington, Va.
Middletown, Ohio Hagerstown, Md.
Gerry U. Stephens, ’50

J. Vaughan Beale, 36 William H. Hillier, ’38 Chattanooga, Tenn.
Franklin, Va. Wheaton, IIl.
Donald W. Belveal, 63 W. Hayne Hipp, ’62
Tampa, Fla. Greenville, S. C.
Daniel Blain, ’21 Vernon W. Holleman, Jr., 58
Philadelphia, Pa. Washington, D. C.
James D. Bowie, ’56 C. Royce Hough, III, ’59
Bristol, Va. Winston-Salem, N. C.
William O. Burtner, 717 Timothy G. Ireland, ’60
Harrisonburg, Va. Akron, Ohio
Peter M. Candler, ’64 Harvey E. Jones, ’64
Atlanta, Ga. Mobile, Ala.
Clark H. Carter, ’69 Ted M. Kerr, 57
Baltimore, Md. ' Midland, Tex.
Charles B. Castner, Jr., 52 H. Gordon Leggett, Jr., ’54
Louisville, Ky. Lynchburg, Va.
Thomas Hal Clarke, ’38-L David B. Long, ’68
Alexandria, Va. Dallas, Tex.
A. Christian Compton, ’50 Andrew H. Lupton, ’67
Richmond, Va. Columbia, Md.
Lewis G. Creskoff, ’55 J. W. McClintock, III, 53
Haverford, Pa. Tunica, Miss.
Paul B. Cromelin, Jr., ’49 Charles L. McCormick, ’58
Chevy Chase, Md. Halifax, Va.
J. H. DeJarnette, ’65 James W. Mell, 64
Richmond, Va. Blairstown, N. J.
Parker Denaco, ’68-L Philip H. Milner, ’36
Brewer, Me. New York, N. Y.
W. Gilbert Faulk, Jr., ’68-L Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20
Princeton, N. J. New York, N. Y.
Fred B. Griffin, ’60 Bruce W. Rider, ’66 Session on “University Governance and Finance” brought out the
Houston, Tex. Conway, S. C. facts and figures of the Development Program.

12 Wel

.

_ following remar
-coming-Fall Reunion —

 

 

Change at W&L

 

light, and young couples walking hand in hand across
the longest concrete non-suspension footbridge
in the world. Music, youth, romance—pure nostalgia!

If this is a mere quibble, it is so only to those who
refuse to face squarely the real issues of American
education today. Washington and Lee, like the entire
world, has changed. The helpful response to this fact,
however, is not a lament for times past, but a willingness
to understand the changes that have taken place and
to make whatever further changes may be desirable in
the future.

Nevertheless, my basic quarrel with the alumni
friends to whom I referred a few moments ago is not
that they are indulging in nostalgia. My real quarrel
is with a kind of hidden assumption they have that
sometime in the past there existed, like an Idea from
Platonic thought, an ideal Washington and Lee and
that we have somehow departed from this ideal. Their
assumption is never explicitly stated, of course, and
perhaps it is not even consciously implied. But during
the past few years it has made itself so apparent to me
that I have been driven to ask what truth, if any, lies
behind it. Are we at Washington and Lee, I have asked
myself, true to our heritage? Are we indeed helping
to realize the aspirations which our predecessors had
for this University?

Now when we speak in this maner of our heritage,
we are surely thinking of only part of it. I don’t think
of myself, for example, as an alumnus of Augusta
Academy, or of Liberty Hall, or of Washington
Academy, or even of Washington College. When we
think of ourselves as part of the tradition of this Uni-
versity, we really think of that part of the tradition
which is associated with the name of Robert E. Lee,
with his presidency and the legacy he left. What, then,
was Lee’s concept of the college he was invited to lead
at a most difficult time? What was his attitude toward
change, and what were his dreams for Washington
College?

In order to have some sense of what the college
was like before Lee’s presidency, let us first look at the
catalogue for the session of 1859-60, the last session
before the Civil War for which a catalogue was printed.
It is only a slender little pamphlet, but even so its

14

 

fifteen pages are more than enough to list the names of
a faculty of eight and a student body of ninety-five
(only one of whom, incidentally, is designated as coming
from out of state), and the courses in a curriculum
restricted almost entirely to Latin, Greek, mathematics,
the natural sciences, and philosophy.

To turn from this to the catalogue published exactly
ten years later, the last year of Lee’s presidency, is to
enter an altogether new and different stage in the history
of this University. In the first place the catalogue is —
no longer a thin pamphlet but a substantial volume
five times the length of its predecessor. It lists a faculty
that has nearly tripled in size and a student body that
has more than tripled; and unlike the provincial
student body of 1859, the student body of 1869 repre-
sents 22 states in addition to the Idaho Territory,
Canada, and France.

Such a rapid growth in the size and complexity of
the student body surely must have raised questions
concerning discipline. Lee, moreover, was a military
man, and one would suppose that under his presidency
the students of Washington College were more strictly
governed than before. Well, let us turn to the history
of those years to see what actually occurred; let us
look at General Lee’s College, by the late Ollinger
Crenshaw. Here is what he writes:

“The shift from rigid rules of discipline to a
gentleman’s code of conduct was accompanied by a
broadening of social life and a relaxation of religious
requirements. Dancing became openly countenanced,
social fraternities were tolerated, and chapel services
were placed on a voluntary basis.”

Rules and regulations were relaxed, then. But what
about academic and curricular matters? Did they keep
pace with a greatly enlarged faculty and student body
and with a more sophisticated college life? Lee cer-
tainly had little academic experience, and one might
reasonably suppose that he would have been satisfied
to continue with the old curriculum. Yet here again he
proved himself to be an innovator, dissatisfied with
things as they were and eager to meet the challenge
of changing times. During the first year of his admini-
stration the Lexington Law School was formally annexed
to Washington College. A students’ business school

Wel

  
  
   
 

 

X

  

reform of the. curriculum was” put into | effec
number of subjects and establishing nine
departments. Academic s d
addition of ae degr

  

  
 

  

| records. ae
In view of a these ct sha

- needs of individuals—with all lof ‘these cd an
- anyone imagine a graduate of Washington Co
returning to Lexington early in the fall of 1
_ seeing the institution flourishing as it had ne
flourished 1 before, oh dian es i :

  
   
 

Washington and I Lee Le 2H ite
the Washington Coll eg
of 10 years earlier,
| Yet the real I profit ¢ derived i

 
 

wrote George Meredith on mn declining : an honorary ae

degree from Oxford, “is rather overcharged with the

calm Past, and has to be resisted.” Washington and _

—— Lee’s past is one that we alumni are justly proud of,

_ but we must resist the temptation to dwell on it except

_ insofar as it gives us renewed appreciation for the |

- motto, rooted deep in the University’ s history, which |

_Proclaims that we are not t anarnigs l of the future.

remi ninder that we might

profitably hear. Am mome rent x n xs

Meredith. Let me conclude

from one of a my
_ Housman is widely kr no

  
 
 
 
  
  
   
   
 

   

 

 
 
 
 
 

e

 

| January, 1978

was established, and ee training 8 Powe and |

 

for ’ ver, as it was in the beg
~ desired to make one wise.” |

arouse in students, and then to help gratify, the desire
| to discover knowledge. That desire takes many forms, _
and is satisfied in many ways. But though its expression -

today may not be precisely the |

 

“The real profit derived from recalling

Lee’s presidency lies... in being |
reminded that Washington and Lee has
never been a static institution...”

    
    
 
 
   
     

 

cit ings i is to y seach out a | matter.
vince; ane we stu |

   
  
  
   
  
 
 
    
   
    
 
 
     

em. And the pleasure of comey differs. 7

easures in this, that it is shadowed by —
and or of frustration on

oY ¢ desires P eish in n their tuapmng ts

 
 

 

yn the un cies ‘throughout ¢ the infinite field
7 iverse; and the tree of knowledge will remain

e.

eg ginning, | a tree to a -

   
    
 
   
  
   

   

 

Here is our true business at Washington « and Lee: to _

 

 

 

 

same as in the past, a
the pursuit of knowledge is our primary mission now Ww ae
Just as it was in the oe of ia Graham, a,

 

Campus News

 

 

Smith is the 10th W&L man
to win a Rhodes Scholarship

Ralph H. Smith, a senior from Bir-
mingham, Ala., is the 10th Washington
and Lee man to win a Rhodes Scholar-
ship. The announcement was made on
Dec. 16 by the Rhodes committee in
New Orleans.

Smith is an English major at W&L
and a consistent Honor Roll student. He
was nominated for the Rhodes Scholar-
ship last fall by the W&L faculty. This is
the first step in an exhaustive screening
process. Nationwide, only 32 winners are
chosen each year, and this year there
were 733 candidates nominated by 256
colleges and universities. Selections are
based on intellectual achievement, char-
acter, leadership, and physical vigor. A
Rhodes is one of the most prestigious
honors that can be conferred on a stu-
dent in America.

The Rhodes Scholarship provides a
minimum of two years of study at
Oxford University in England. Rhodes
Scholars may choose any field of study
offered at Oxford.

At Washington and Lee, Smith repre-
sents his class on the University Council,
a principal  student-faculty advisory
agency. He participates in a special tu-
torial program for pupils in area public
schools and is also an accomplished
photographer.

Smith is the third Washington and
Lee man to win a Rhodes in eight years
and the 10th since the scholarships were
established in 1904 by Cecil Rhodes, a
South African financier and statesman.

Other Washington and Lee men who
were Rhodes winners are: Col. Francis
Miller, 14; the late Dr. Fitz-
gerald Flournoy, ’21; the late Samuel A.
McCain, ’27; Clarence Pendleton Lee,
Jr., °32; Dr. Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., 39;

Dr. Robert O. Paxton, ’54; John B. Mc-

Pickens

16

 

Ralph H. Smith, Rhodes winner.

Lin, ’60; Timothy A. Vanderver, Jr., ’65;
and Marvin C. Henberg, ’70.

 

Study Abroad Expanded

 

Two new “study abroad” programs,
one in England and one in Japan, have
been added to the curriculum at Wash-
ington and Lee. The courses—to be di-
rected by the English and Religion De-
partments respectively—were approved by
the faculty in its December meeting. The
British program will be inaugurated this
spring, and the Japanese program in
1974.

The new English program will con-
centrate this year on Shakespeare and
will be taught by Dr. George W. Ray,
III, associate professor of English and an
authority on Shakespeare. The specific

topic in the English-abroad program will
vary from year to year and will be
taught by different members of the de-
partment.

The Japan program will focus in a
similar way on the culture and heritage
of that nation, and though offered un-
der the direction of the Religion De-
partment will not be limited in its scope
to studies in that discipline.

Both new programs will emphasize
independent study and research and in-
tensive exposure to the foreign culture.

Washington and Lee also offers par-
allel study-abroad programs in France,
Germany, Spain, and East Africa.

Students participating in the Shake-
spearean seminar this year will attend
plays and lectures in London, Stratford-
on-Avon, and other areas important to an
understanding in depth of the playwright
and his work.
include
supervised academic projects, lectures by

The Japan program will

Japanese authorities, and field trips to
the ancient capitals of Kyoto and Mara,
as well as to cities important in modern
Japanese life.

A prerequisite for the Japan program
will be a new course in Japanese civili-
zation, which will be introduced to the
W&L curriculum next fall. It will be
taught by Dr. Minor Lee Rogers, assis-
tant professor of religion, who has spent
considerable time in Japan. He will also
be director of the study-abroad program.

Also adopted by the W&L faculty were
two courses intended to prepare its gra-
duates for public-school teacher certifica-
tion in Virginia, an opportunity not prey-
iously available to them except through
transfer credit from other institutions.

The certification program requires an
academic course in instructional methods

Wel

 

   

a ‘the high school Aevel : as + well
= of pa acing, at

 
 
  

  
 

- a teacher in the onary 'y

WEL’s six week genta Te

  
      
 
    
  

- their full time in’

   

7 among a ee courses. | oo
ae Paes ci oa

  

 
  
 

a the oad of. the - year - rather | r than
: middle, as most other schools
sen to do, is ta. permit WL stude oe

 

 

 

| the summer on ae ow

 

Dowh I ndictmer

  

 

Ten current WL, student ane
iguner students were among 19
who have been char

  
  
  

  

areas, 5 of f Virginia, mnees 2
_ Most of — “charges inva

   

 

 

 

. designed to permit” students to “spend — _ seekiny

ject rather | than divide’ their attention : | inqui y,

extend their overseas or field study into |

 

sd with the distribu. | w
tion of f controlled — ‘The sey ments | Wwe

| tase “and the Perro phe principle, however, does : seem clear: ao
7 individual who “uses ~~ is repepble t for his actions; an | individual wh )

| or the Penalty may depend mpon the de;

  
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  

  
 

7 Sean Poli Staten me ent on » Drugs

ston ene ae Unive rsit

  

   

tw Ws ich _ students may dis-
sal. The pees to foster 7

  

a y rest, t assured they do 1 not risk k disciplinar ry acti

  
  
   
  

    

ve * himself that the

    

arr gs. Law-enforce ent

 
     
     
 
    
     
      
     

   

- to do | sO would undermine the — a

 

 
  
   
   

| ‘tions, b . but for the actions “and welfare of others as 5 well. | Accordingly, t the s ‘§ a erit!
gree to a winch: an cadet B

 

 

 

 

 

University’s s Pre "responsibilities ‘con do
ing. ponsistent with these, responsibili- ot

——-* en not enjoy pony: from sont a

 

lud poms isa ‘sanctuary | -
e y regulates by the law the use of drugs; it) —
. lent aos hhave juris |
ts, may legally make |
tic ; to University off- |

 

sh tos set ¢ eeadent against. student, fe

e —- cannot ignore violations — o
nm 2 fet timate > claim anats do

 

Campus News

 

All of the defendants, except one of
the former students and one local resi-
dent who had not been apprehended by
mid-December, were arrested and releas-
ed on bond. They face trial in Rock-
bridge Circuit Court. The trial dates of
three of the students, those with the great-
est number of charges against them,
have been set for early- and mid-Febru-
ary. Trial dates for the others involved
will be set at a hearing in early February.

All of the arrests took place in off-
campus residences; no University build-
ings were entered by the authorities. Uni-
versity officials had no prior knowledge
of the investigation and were given no
advance notice of the indictments.

The students
classes. Any disciplinary action against
them is up to the Student Control Com-

involved returned to

mittee, made up entirely of students. ‘The
decisions of this committee are routinely
reviewed by the Student Affairs Com-
mittee, consisting of an equal number of
faculty and student representatives.

This procedure is in accordance with
the University Policy Statement on Drugs
(reprinted in this issue of the magazine),
which was formulated in May 1971. ‘The
policy provides a three-pronged approach
to the matter: a program of education on
the physical and legal perils of illegal
drug use; a program of personal counsel-
ing (the University now has a full-time
counseling psychologist); and disciplin-
ary action through normal University
channels. The statement, which is in-
cluded in the Student Handbook and is
made available to all students, makes
clear that the University is not a sanctu-
ary for drug users or distributors and will
not act in loco parentis to protect stu-
dents from the consequences of illegal ac-
tions.

18

The November “drug bust” in Lex-
ington has done much to bring this fact
home to Washington and Lee students.

In regard to University policy con-
cerning those students facing charges,
Dean of Students Lewis G. John wrote
to each of them, enclosing a copy of the
Policy Statement on Drugs:

“As indicated in the enclosed policy
statement, the Student Control Commit-
tee is the University body which exercises
initial jurisdiction in matters of student
conduct. Your case will thus be consider-
ed by the Student Control Committee for
possible University disciplinary action.
Assuming your trial will take place dur-
ing the academic year, the Student Con-
trol Committee will in all likelihood not
proceed to consider the matter until after
the evidence has been heard in court.
The outcome of the trial court proceed-
ings will not be determinative of any
action the University might take, but it
could be a factor considered by the ap-
propriate University committees. In the
meantime, there is no change in your
status as a student at Washington and
Lee.”

The extent of drug use by Washington
and Lee students has not been fully as-
certained. Knowledgeable students and
University officials estimate that up to
75 per cent of W&L students have tried
marijuana, but the number of regular
users is probably much smaller. Very few
students are believed to be users of speed,
LSD, or the “harder” drugs. Heroin is
not believed to be a significant problem.

 

Parents’ Weekend, 1972

 

More than 1,200 parents and other
relatives of students were on campus Nov.
11-12-13 for the University’s 18th annual

 

Parents’ Weekend. They met with their
sons’ professors, attended question-and-
answer seminars at which the whole range
of University activities was discussed, and
heard reports from University President
Robert E. R. Huntley and President of
the Student Body Robert O. Brennan.

The guests also had opportunities to
see the University Theatre’s production
of Shakespeare’s Troilus and Cressida,
hear a debate presented by the Univer-
sity Debate Team, attend a concert by the
W&L Concert Guild and the Brass Choir,
attend a reception at the President's
House, and see W&L play Denison Col-
lege in football.

The consensus was that the program
succeeded in its purpose as defined by
Council President Robert A.
Hemm of Pelham, N. Y.: “To encourage

Parents’

among parents a greater understanding
of Washington and Lee, its aspirations
and its goals, and to engender among
all parents a greater feeling of participa-
tion and partnership in the University’s
important role of the education of young
men and, I might add, young women.”
[The latter was a reference to the six
women now enrolled in the School of
Law.|

Hemm has two sons at W&L, Robert
Mark, a senior, and Andrew Murray, a
sophomore. He presided at the “Report
to Parents” meeting in Lee Chapel. At
that time, President Huntley thanked
the parents for their outstanding support
and understanding, told of University
plans to provide additional University-
owned student housing to give students
a wider choice of residence, and explain-
ed how the University has strengthened
its counseling services and brought about
even closer student-faculty relationships.
Brennan told of the trust the faculty

WeL

ne
Spee

:

med

at

Se aie
oie
as

i

Cs

iS
ee

Pa

-

a

 

 

 

a

oe
=.

Campus News

 

on holidays (and, many years ago, on
Sundays). W&L President Robert E. R.
Huntley prompted the decision to ring
them daily.

Dr. Campbell
close friends in their college days at
Washington and Lee. Houston drowned
in the North (now Maury) River in 1886,
two years after his graduation. Dr. Camp-
bell received the Ph.D. from Washington
and Lee in 1891 and eventually became

and Houston were

professor of physics at Simmons College.
On his retirement he returned to Lex-
ington, and died here in 1964.

 

Higgins Scholarship

 

A scholarship fund in memory of
Stanley C. Higgins, Jr., of Fayetteville,
W.Va., has been established at the Uni-
versity by a number of his friends. Hig-
gins, who was prominent in the field of
mineral law, died Nov. 27, 1972, in Char-
lottesville, Va., following a short illness.
He was 59.

Higgins received both his undergradu-
ate and legal education at Washington
and Lee and was awarded the LL.B. de-
gree in 1937. At the time of his death,
he was senior partner in the Fayetteville
law firm of Higgins, Thrift & Mahan.

The memorial scholarship fund in his
honor—to which several thousand dollars
has already been contributed—will aid a
student at Washington and Lee whose
personal and academic promise is excep-
tional. Preference in awarding the scho-
larships will be given to residents of West
Virginia. Additional
butions should be addressed to the Office
of the President of Washington and Lee.

Higgins was president of the West
Virginia Bar in 1960-61. He also was a
member of the West Virginia Bar As-

memorial contri-

20

sociation and of the American Judicature
Society. He was a director of the A. T.
Massey Coal Co. of Richmond, Va., and
a member of the Charleston Army &
Navy Club and the White Oak Country
Club. As a student at Washington and
Lee he was a member of Omicron Delta
Kappa national leadership fraternity,
Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity, and Phi
Gamma social fraternity.

He was married to the former Jean
Annette Kent, and they had two sons,
Capt. Stanley Kent Higgins and David
K. Higgins, a 1970 graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee is now in his first year
of law at the University. His parents,
Mr. and Mrs. Stanley Higgins, Sr., of
Fayetteville, also survive.

 

Mr. Matt’s Helping Hand

The late Earl S. Mattingly’s long serv-
ice to Washington and Lee took a new

 

form this year—the housing of an over-

flow of freshmen. And therein lies an un--

heralded story.

Mr. Matt was a member of the admini-
strative staff of the University for 49
years. He was first the Registrar and
then Treasurer, duties to which he, a
bachelor, was completely devoted. In-
deed, Washington and Lee was nearly
his whole life. He retired on July 1, 1966,
and less than six months later on Dec.
27 he died of a heart attack.

In his will, he made bequests to mem-
bers of his family, to his church, to the
Stonewall Jackson Hospital, and to
others. The residue of his estate he left
to his alma mater, W&L. This residue
amounted to more than $100,000. It in-
cluded an accumulation of more than
$75,000 in his teachers’ annuity fund,
other assets and, not least, the residence

 

 

Artist Abbott’s portrait of Mr. Matt.

on Lee Avenue, next to the Sigma Chi
house, which he owned and occupied.

It was to this house that the Univer-
sity turned when it had to arrange hous-
ing for 25 students above the number of
freshmen expected when acceptances
were mailed to applicants in March. The
renovated the Mattingly
to house 12 students and
bought the former Wesley House on
Lee Avenue to accommodate 13 fresh-

men. And so it is that Earl Mattingly’s

University
apartments

generosity is once again helping the Uni-
versity in a pinch.

Students who have come to Washing-
ton and Lee since Mr. Matt’s departure
have another way of being reminded of
his service. The Board of Trustees, in
appreciation of his dedication to the
University and of his gift of his life’s
savings, commissioned a portrait of Mr.
Matt to be painted by Scaisbrook Abbott
of Lynchburg, Va. This portrait now
hangs on the north wall of Evans Dining
Hall, where all freshmen and many up-
perclassmen take their meals. This is an

Wel

appropriate p > for the portrait, fo students casting ballots. Sc shington and Lee. The -
Mr. Matt often ate at the | hall ressed no opinion or wrote in a tures Russell Quandt, the noted

 

 

 

 

 

 

Campus News

 

mittee for the organization’s 1973 con-
vention.

Dr. DeVogt has been secretary-treas-
urer and a longtime director of the SMA.
Following the customary election pattern,
he will become president of the associa-
tion next year to take office in 1974. At
that time he will also become ex officio
a director of the national Academy of
Management.

In addition, Dr. DeVogt, who is
chairman of the Lexington School Board,
has been named chairman of the Legisla-
tive Committee of the Virginia School
Boards Association. In that capacity he
will direct liaison efforts between Vivr-
ginia’s 130 school boards and the Gen-
eral Assembly.

Dr. DeVogt earned both the B.S. and

Ph.D. degrees from the University of

 

of Major Scharnberg.

 

Two holders of Scharnberg Memorial Scholarships, Kenneth D. McCreedy
and Philip B. Willis, stand by the case holding the flag which covered the £
casket of Major Ronald O. Scharnberg, 63, who was killed in Vietnam in 1971.
The flag is displayed in the lobby of the ROTC Building. Members of the
Scharnberg family established a $250,000 scholarship fund at WeL in memory

 

 

 

22

North Carolina and joined the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty in 1962.

 

Huntley On Best Board

Best Products Co. Inc., the nation’s

 

largest catalogue-showroom merchandis-
ing firm, has elected University President
Robert E. R. Huntley to its board of
directors.

President and vice president of Best
are Sydney and Frances Lewis, who gave
$9 million to the Washington and Lee
law school development program last
March. Lewis is an alumnus of both the
undergraduate and law schools at W&L
and a trustee. Huntley became the eighth
director of Best Products.

Lewis, president of Best, said the
election of Huntley to the firm’s board
“will add immeasurably” to the strength
of the company.

 

19 Make ‘Who’s Who’

Nineteen seniors at Washington and
Lee—12 in school
and seven in the School of Law—have
been named to “Who’s Who In Ameri-

 

the undergraduate

can Colleges and Universities.”’

The undergraduates are Robert O.
Brennan of East Williston, N. Y., presi-
dent of the student body; John A. Con-
rad of Manakin-Sabot, Va., president of
the Interfraternity Council; Donald D.
Eavenson of Abington, Pa., co-captain of
the football team and head dormitory
counselor; G. Archer Frierson of Shrevye-
port, La., student government representa-
football Richard E.
Gray of Dallas, Tex., student government

tive and player;

leader and president of Omicron Delta
Kappa national honorary fraternity; Wil-
liam H. Mcllhany, II of Roanoke, Va.,

Wel

~

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee ee ee ae ee ‘i.

Johnston's election extends
list of W&L public servants

Another Washington and Lee alumnus has been
elected to the U. S. Senate. He is J. Bennett Johnston,
Jr., Democrat of Louisiana, who succeeded the late Sen.
Allen J. Ellender. He rolled up a large margin in de-
feating three other candidates in the November election.

Johnston, who attended W&L in 1950-51 and 1952-
53, joins ancther W&L alumnus in the Senate: William
E. Brock, III, °53, a Republican, who was elected to the
Senate in 1970 after serving eight years in the U. S.
House of Representatives. One W&L alumnus, Dr. G.
William Whitehurst, °50, is currently serving in the
House of Representatives. Dr. Whitehurst, a Republi-
can, was first elected in 1968 from the Virginia Second
District, re-elected in 1970 and again in November.

Johnston is a graduate of the U.S. Military Academy
and holds the LL.B. degree from Louisiana State Univer-
sity. He was a member of the law firm of Johnston,
Johnston, and ‘Thornton in Shreveport, La. In 1971, he
narrowly lost the Louisiana Democratic gubernatorial
nomination. Now he is Louisiana’s first freshman Sena-
tor since 1948. He had previously served in both the
Louisiana Senate and House of Representatives.

Johnston’s election brought to 25 the number of
W&L alumni who have served in the U.S. Senate; 63

 

Senator Brock

Senator Johnston

24

 

Congressman Whitehurst

W&L alumni have held seats in the U.S. House of Repre-
sentatives; 31 W&L alumni have been state governors.
(Gov. Linwood Holton, ’44, of Virginia is the only WkL
alumnus currently occupying a governor’s mansion.)

Prof. Rupert N. Latture, special advisor to the W&L
President, spent many painstaking hours searching Uni-
versity records for the names and dates of alumni who
have served as senators, congressmen, and governors. The
names are listed below in the order of their attendance
at Liberty Hall Academy, Washington College, and
Washington and Lee University. The dates at the right
indicate the years they were in office. Prof. Latture
would welcome information regarding corrections or
additions.

Washington and Lee alumni who have served in the
United States Senate.

Andrew Moore 1768 Virginia 1799-1809
John Brown 1773 Kentucky 1792-1805
John Breckenridge 1776 Virginia 1801-05
James Brown 1782 Louisiana 1813-17, 1819-23
Richard E. Parker 1803 Virginia 1836-37
Robert H. Adams 1806 Mississippi 1830
John J. Crittenden 1806 Kentucky 1817-19, 1835-41,

1842-48, 1855-61
Powhatan Ellis 1809 Mississippi 1827-32

Governor Holton

Wel

 

4

 

North Carolina 1836-40.

 

a William C. Preston 1810

Harvey Butler Fergusson 1874 New Mexico 1913-15
Robert Strange | | 1812,

| as St. ores Tucker 1876 Virginia 1889-97, 1922-32
| South Carolina 1895-1901

 
 
 

| Mississippi

Pomsana

Jackson Morton | 1814 ~— Florida © a rie
Henry S. Foote 1820 a
Murphy J. Foster == s1868

1879 Alabama
1883 —_—‘* Virginia
1891 | Virginia

(1921-23

1901-21

 

George E. Chamberlain a (1876 | Ore Oregon

"1928-29
Robert L. Owen

1891 Washington 1909-11
1892 West Virginia  —-: 1911-13
1893 «West Virginia 1919-23

894 West Virginia 1915-19

= Ohio: 915-17
1896s Delaware — 1913-15
96 Texas 1921 -29, 1930-31
07° Virginia 1931-49
Arkansas ———s«d:9 23-33

8 Virginia = —-: 1923-45
Oregon —_—s«1921-23 ©
Ohio 1939-65
Virginia = «1928-82 |
‘Arkansas  =———s«d1. 99-49)

Miles Poindexter — a
“Alfred E. Reames
Nathan P. Bryan _ |
Nathan Bachman
William James Bryan |
Scott M. Loftin = 9 = Florida
William H. Smathers 1912s New Jersey |
_ William C. Revercomb —:1916 |
William E. Brock IIT = 1953 —|
J. Bennett Johnston, je 1954 —

  

1897 | Tennessee Ye
1899s Florida |
1

 

   

- West Virginia _ 1943-49 | agon
Tennessee  -'197]1- Clifton. AL Woodrun
Louisiana > (1973- Elton Watkins |
7 | Clarence J. Brown

Joel W. Flood, Jr.
William H. Cravens

 

| Washington and Lee alumni who. have served in 1 the
United States House of Representatives. |

Andrew Moore

 

George Matthews _ 1755

| (1768
John Brown — —  1T73
James aan — TT9
John Baker i sid BH
Christopher | Clark © . i 1786 —

_ Georgia ©
Virginia

Virginia

Virginia —

Virginia —

Virginia»

1789-91 | ‘William M. Tuck | 192
) George William Whitehurst 19!
John O. “Marsh > |
William E. Brock III

1789-97
1789-92

1809-17
1811-13
1804-06

Virginia»
_ Virginia —

 

Tennessee

_ Virginia — 1953-69

1963-71

1963-71

_ Washington and Lee alumni who have served —

— John McKee © os _ 1787 Virginia 1823-29
799 as Governors ‘of States.

Samuel McKee 1790 Kentucky © 1809-17 | | — |
Benjamin Estill - a 1796 Virginia «1825-27 George. Matthews («155 "Georgia ae 1793-96
James D. B ene itge _ Kentucky 1921-23 ~~ Archibald Roane 177 5 — _ Tennessee _ : 1801-03
George w. Crump — : oe oe (1826-27 | “Meriwether Lewis 1791 ~~ Missouri joey 1807-09 .
Severn E. Parker © os a 1819-21 | — john J. Gri a? Kent ucky | 1848-50 ©
John J. Crittenden — 3 | eam ee 16 Virginia, = 1842-46
Walter Coles 183545 OE 1920 Mississippi 1852.54
‘Virginia ~ a —- 1860-64 ©

— Virginia 1874: 78 |
West Virginia =—-:1877-81
Louisiana 1892-1900 oe

‘Virginia © | 98

_ Arkansas © a
South > Carolina 1899-
Virgin Islands —S 19
Oregon «190
Colorado | |
Missouri ©

West Virginia —
South Carolina
Louisiana
Kentucky —
Tennessee |
‘Virginia —

 

        
     
   

 

yo, Robert Craig |

i John James ‘Allen
Robert Allen _

7 Samuel McD. Moore | gn |
| James McDowell | 1816 = =—s Virginia
John Hill ~—*«1818~—Ssté«Vrgintk
George W. Summers  ——:'1821_—S_—S=é‘Vr gina ee |

Edward Carrington: Cabell 1833 Florida  =——*1847-53
John Letcher 1833 ~~—Ss«WVirginia = «i851 -59
Edward C. Marshall 1833. = Caillifornia = «1851-53
Jacob K. Shafer — i 1842 Idaho © 1869-71 ©
Samuel Merritt 1848 Idaho —s«d'8571-73
Jo. ode, —  1851000—C”:s«Virginia (1875-81

 

 

 

 
   
  
  
  
   
   
 
 
  

. “Miles. B. ‘McSweeney.
James ‘H. Oliver — —
- George E. Chamberlain a
| Julius: C. Gunter
Laurence V. Stephens _
- William A. McCorkle

D2 a 1855 West t vinginia 1871-75. Duncan C. Heyward
Robert M. Mayo 1859 | --'1883-84 Luther Egbert Hall
James B. Sener  =———is—s«éi0:8600 1873-75 = Ruby Laffoon |
James Fletcher Epes 7 ‘1867 1891-95 = Austen L. Peay —
_ -D. Gardner Tyler —s«d86—s«WV | 1898-97 George C. Peey
1 Charles T. (O'Ferrall 1869 ~=—Ss«Virginia +1884 James H. Price
James Hay 1870. ‘Virginia — Homer A. Holt
Clifton R. Breckemidge 1870 =~ Arkansas © | William M. Tuck |
Dannite Hill Mays | 1870 Florida | | 1909-13 Charles L. Terry |
i Theodore Stark | ‘Wilkinson (1870 Louisiana | 1887-91 Clarence W. Meadows | |
j Thomas Chipman McRae | 1872 = Arkansas «1885-1908 William W. Barron  —«--:1931_—
\ James L. Slayden | 18738 Texas 7 1897-1919 AL Linwood | Holton, Je (1944 ©

January, 1973 /

 

 

 

   

 

 

   

by John E. Hughes

 

Soccer and cross-country teams
lead the fall athletic parade

Washington and Lee had one of its
most successful fall seasons in history in
two sports, soccer and cross-country, but
football
after a promising beginning.

was somewhat disappointing
Coach Joe Lyles’ soccer team came on
strong at season’s end to post one of its
best records in recent years, 6-2-2. Among
the Generals’ victims were Virginia ‘Tech,
Hampden-Sydney, VMI, Lynchburg and
co-state champion Randolph-Macon.
Unfortunately, an early-season 1-0 loss
to a very strong Madison team knocked
WkL_ out

W&L and Madison are in the same divi-

of . post-season competition.
sion, and only the division winner goes
on to the state championship. Madison
and Randolph-Macon (whom the Gen-
erals had defeated) tied for the state
championship.

W&L’s only soccer losses were to Madi-
son and to nationally-ranked Navy at
Annapolis. The Generals placed five men
on the Virginia Intercollegiate Soccer
Association (VISA) 1972 All-State ‘Team:

backs Barclay Armstrong and_ Rolf
Piranian, and linemen Jim Fox, Mike
Schaeffer and Meade Kampfmueller.

Armstrong was a first team selection,
with the other four chosen for the sec-
ond team. All played in the annual
VISA All-Star Game. The season soccer

results:

WkL 3 Eastern Mennonite 0
WkEL 0 Madison ]
WEL 2 Lynchburg (OT) 1
WkL 2 Indiana, Pa. (OT) 2
WkL 2 Roanoke (OT) 2
WkL 3 Randolph-Macon 2
WkL 9 VMI ]
WkL 4 Hampden-Sydney ]
WkL_ 1 Navy 3
WkL 4 Virginia Tech ]
Led by supersoph Stu Nibley and
26

freshman sensation Jim McMenamin, the
W&L cross-country team posted its best
record ever, a 9-1 season, winning the
College Athletic Conference champion-
ship and finishing a strong second (to
always tough Bridgewater) in the seven-
team state meet at Bridgewater.

Nibley, who practices constantly, usu-
ally running several miles twice a day,
broke W&L’s course record in winning
the conference meet. He toured the 4.1-
mile course in 22 minutes, 7 seconds,
knocking 18 seconds off the old mark
which was set in 1969. ‘hat also was
nearly a minute and a half faster than
any previous W&L runner had ever run
the course.

Nibley also came close to the record
for the longer 5-mile course, established
three years ago by the legendary Howell
Michael of William and Mary. Michael’s
record time is 26:02.7, and Nibley ran
the course in 26:43.7. (That’s also two
minutes faster than any previous W&L
runner ever did it).

Nibley’s
overshadowed
Menamin, who improved considerably

outstanding performances

those of freshman Mc-

as the season progressed and finished the
year as a strong No. 2 man. So, with
only senior Bob Sherwood graduating off
this year’s team, the future appears bright
indeed for Coach Dick Miller's cross-
country runners.

After winning their first seven meets,
the Generals ran into always-powerful
Bridgewater and suffered their only de-
feat of the year by a close 22-33 score.
Bridgewater went on to an undefeated
season and the state championship, with
W&L finishing second in the state meet.

The Generals hosted the conference
meet, and won an exciting contest, edg-
ing strong Sewanee and Centre. Nibley

finished in his customary place far ahead
of the field, setting his new course rec
ord in the process. Other top W&L finish-
ers were McMenamin 4th, Bill Kalal 8th,
Mike Burns 10th and Bill Garrison 12th.
After the first four runners had finished
for both WkL was tied with
Sewanee with 23 points apiece,
Garrison’s 12th place finish ahead of
Sewanee’s No. 5 man in the 18th place,
gave the conference to the Generals. ‘The
season cross-country results:

teams,
and

WL 23 Centre 37
WkL 27 Lynchburg 32
WkL 27 Old Dominion 28
WkL 26 Christopher

} Newport 30
WkL 24 Roanoke 33
WL 18 VMI 4]
WkL 23 Davidson 32
WkL 33 Bridgewater 22
WkL 22 Eastern Mennonite 39
WkL 20 Madison 4]

W&L’s football team ended the season
with a 3-6 record, the highlights of the
year being an opening game upset of
powerful Westminster, Pa., a 38-0 romp
over a big Towson State 11, and a Home-
coming victory over archrival Sewanee.

Westminster brought a 22-game win-
ning streak and a solid reputation (they
were national champions in 1970, na-
1971
National Association of Intercollegiate

tional runners-up in among
Athletics schools) into the opening game
at Wilson Field. Coach Buck Leslie’s
Generals played like national champions
in rallying from a 14-0 deficit to upset
the Titans, 21-14. (Westminster went on
to win the rest of its games).

But the Generals stumbled the next
week against Centre, losing 15-14 after
leading for all but the last 38 seconds,
and they never seemed to recover the

WeL

~

We&L and Madison soccermen
clash in hard-fought match.

early-season momentum or enthusiasm.
It was a good year for several individ-
uals. Senior end Chappy Conrad finished
among the nation’s leaders in punting
with an outstanding 40.6-yard average,
and caught 36 passes for 551 yards and
six touchdowns. Senior running back
Tommy Van Amburgh compiled 819
yards in rushing, an average of 91 yards
a game, while senior quarterback Steve
Fluharty had another good year, com-
pleting 73 passes for 857 yards and six
touchdowns. Junior fullback Jim Farrar

January, 1973

and junior quarterback Lewis Powell
also had good seasons, along with seniors
Mark Lane, Archer Frierson, Ed Mc-
Laughlin, Marshall Washburn, Don
Eavenson and Tim Haley, juniors Bill
Wallace, Ed Kowal and Bob Brand, and
freshman Rick Kulp.

Van Amburgh was named to the All-
State First ‘Team, with Fluharty, Conrad,
Brand, Eavenson and Washburn _ being
named to the second team. Honorable
mention went to junior Mike Brittin,
Kulp, Haley, Farrar and Kowal. The sea-
son football results:

W&L 21 Westminster (Pa.) 14
WkL 14 Centre 15
WkL 6 Hampden-Sydney 34
W&L 38 ‘Towson State 0
WkL 7 Western Maryland 29
W&L 35 Sewanee 25
WkL O Southwestern 14
W&L 22 Denison 52
WkL 7 Washington U. 27

 

Winter Sports Tally

 

 

As this issue of Wé&L was going to
press during the Christmas break, the
University’s winter intercollegiate athletic
program was just getting under way. This
is how things stood:

Coach Verne Canfield’s varsity basket-
ball team was 3-2 with victories over the
University of Pittsburgh/Johnstown (64-
61), Lynchburg (92-83), and Hampden-
Sydney (79-68), and losses to the Univer-
sity of Virginia (102-69) and Randolph-
Macon (75-71). The freshman team was
3-1 with victories over Randolph-Macon
(59-55), Lynchburg (99-57), and Hamp-
den-Sydney (93-67), and a loss to Virginia
(72-61). The JV team had lost to Lynch-
burg Baptist (88-75).

The varsity played in the Holiday

Tournament at Mobile, Ala., on Dec.
29-30 with three other West
Florida, Spring Hill, and William Carey.
The W&L Invitational Tournament was

teams,

held Jan. 5-6 in Doremus Gymnasium,
with W&L, Washington, Lebanon Valley,
and Maryville participating.

Despite the two loses in the early
going, Coach Canfield expressed con-
fidence of another winning basketball
season for the Generals. The remaining
varsity schedule:

Jan. 8 Bridgewater Away
Jan. 10 ‘Towson State Home
Jan. 13° UNC-Wilmington Away
Jan. 17 Emory and Henry Away
Jan. 20 Old Dominion Home
Jan. 22 Rollins Home
Jan. 24 Madison Home
Jan. 27 Virginia Union Home
Feb. 2 Bridgewater Home
Feb. 3 Emory and Henry Home
Feb. 6 Lynchburg Away
Feb. 10 York Away
Feb. 12 Shippensburg State Home
Feb. 17 Hampden-Sydney Home
Feb. 22-24 CAC

Tournament Sewanee, Tenn.

(Southwestern, Sewanee,
and Centre)

Coach John Piper’s wrestling team
had three victories under its belt and had
won fourth place in a nine-team match
in the Lebanon Valley Invitational
Tournament. The victories were over
Morris Harvey (57-0), Lynchburg (33-9),
and Eastern Mennonite (37-6).

Coach Bill Stearns’ swimmers were up
to their winning ways, too. The team was
2-0, having defeated Old Dominion (61-
31) and Allegheny (64-49).

A fuller report on all three sports
will be featured in the next issue of the
magazine.

27

 

 

 

 

 

-
a
aes ae

S
-

a
a
-

—">
ES.

:

=

ae
a.

ee
*

ee

: Fs. oe 3

oy
ase,
;

“4
7a

 

     

 

 

 

 

  
       

          
  
         

 

 

 

 
 
    
 

 

ee
ce
dee
es
sn

2

 

   

ne

 

 

       
    

 

ans

re
on a oe
itr em

   

 
     

   
       
   
  
  
   

 

ry >

ae
ae

  
   

 

  
   
  

 

bite.
bi

       

_
a

ee

Boone

 
 

    

 
  

is:

         

 

ks
fa

          

  

—_—

          
   

  

 

 

   
    
   
  

i aes

 

 
   

2 . 3
eee
i ay
: “9

.
-
SS

 

 

- -

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Chapter News

 

 

Guests of honor Powell and Mrs. Powell greet alumni after
dinner at New York meeting.

     

— i @

P. B. Winfree, III, president of the Rockbridge chapter, presents $500 check to
A. Christian Compton, Alumni Association president. The check represents profits
from sale of ice buckets and trays.

30

state of the University from President
Huntley. Arrangements for the meeting
were made by outgoing President Mat-
thews A. Griffith, 40, who presided. Dur-
ing a short business session, Steven A.
Galef, ’'62BA, was named the new presi-
dent, and Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20BA,
was re-elected treasurer.

ROCKBRIDGE. Sales of ice buckets
and trays bearing the Washington and
Lee coat of arms are producing cash to
aid W&L students. The Rockbridge
chapter is sponsor of the program, with
profits from the sales going to the John
Graham Scholarship Fund, the same fund
to which profits from the sale of the
Washington and Lee chair go. At a meet-
ing of the Alumni Board of Directors on
Nov. 16, P. B. Winfree, III, ’59, presi-
dent of the Rockbridge chapter, present-
ed a check for $500 to Judge A. Christian
Compton, ’50, president of the Alumni
Association. ‘The directors expressed ap-
preciation for the gift and noted that
the amount of money in the John Gra-
ham Scholarship Fund is approaching
$14,000. The fund provides financial aid
to worthy W&L students.

HAWAII. An _ enthusiastic group of
W&L alumni from several of the Ha-
waiian Islands gathered on Oct. 26, 1972,
at the Pacific Club in Honolulu for what
is expected to become an annual lunch-
eon. Color slides of Washington and Lee
activities and campus scenes, provided by
the Alumni Association, were shown to
the enjoyment of all. The arrangements
were made by Edward I. Hutchins, ’68,
and Dave Linn, ’54. Hutchins is area
manager of Systech, a Dillingham Co.,
engaged primarily in the acquisition,
management and disposition of multiple

WeL

_-

 

Attending meeting of Hawaii alumni are (seated) Robert A. Hite, ’44; Harold R.
Sullivan, ’27; Harry L. Salzberg, ’70; and (standing) Philip S. Keat, ’70; James F.
Cunningham, ’41; Lester D. Linn, ’54; and Edward I. Hutchins, Jr., 68.

housing units in the Islands. Eight alum-
ni were present for the meeting (see pic-
ture). Dr. Grover Batten, ’38, was present
but absent for the picture. The W&L
Hawaii group sends its greeting of ‘‘Alo-
ha and Mahalo” and expresses the hope
that any alumnus visiting the Islands
will let them know.

RICHMOND. Basketball Coach Verne
Canfield was a special guest at a lunch-
eon for Richmond alumni on Nov. 29 at
the Downtown Club. Coach Canfield dis-
cussed the prospects for the 1972-73 bas-
ketball season and expressed optimism.
Dan Balfour, ’63,
made the arrangements for the meeting

chapter president,
and outlined the chapter program for
the coming year to the large gathering of
alumni. Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn
was also present at the luncheon.

 

Chapter Correspondents

Appalachian—Jimmy D. Bowie, '56, 714 Arl-
ington Avenue, Bristol, Va. 24201
Arkansas—Edward D. Briscoe, Jr., °59, 17
Edgehill, Little Rock, Ark, 72207
Atlanta—Thomas B. Branch, ’58, Greene,
Buckley, DeRieux, & Jones, 225 Peachtree
Street, N.E., Suite 1515, Atlanta, Ga. 30303
Augusta-Rockingham—William B. Gunn, ‘42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801
Baltimore—Clark H. Carter, ’69, McDonogh
School, McDonogh, Md. 21208
Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr., '63, 15
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213
Charleston—Louie A. Paterno, Jr., ’65, 12 Hill-
top Court, Charleston, W. Va. 25314
Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, ’52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, N.C. 28207
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ’51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Ill. 60187
Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer, ’63, c/o The W.
F. Ryan Corp., 3940 Euclid Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44115
Cumberland Valley—John B. Hoke, Jr., ’60,
Box 825, Martinsburg, W. Va. 25401
Danville—Judge F. Nelson Light, ’52, Route
No. 2, Box 49-A, Chatham, Va. 24531
Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
’63, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601
Gulf Stream—A. J. Barranco, ’64, Suite 1004
Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,
Fla. 33130
Houston—Fred B. Griffin, ’60, 4005 Chatham,
Houston, Texas 77027

January, 1973

Jacksonville—John G. McGiffin, III, ’63, 4114
McGirts Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32201

Kansas City—William N. Leedy, ’49, 814
Westover Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113

Louisville—Charles B. Castner, Jr., ’52, 20 In-
dian Hills Trail, Louisville, Ky. 40207

Lynchburg—Judge O. Raymond Cundiff, ’33,
5020 Wedgewood Road, Lynchburg, Va.
24503

Mid-South—Jerome Turner, '64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr., ’64, 204 Walsh-
wood, Mobile, Ala. 36604

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, '33, 2134 Rose-
mont Drive, Montgomery, Ala. 36111

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., 50, P.O.
Box 729, Slidell, La. 70258

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ’16,
Drawer 60, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York—Steven A. Galef, ’62, 44 Orchard
Drive, Ossining, N.Y. 10562

Norfolk—Frank Callaham, Jr., ’52, 1401 Bruns-
wick Avenue, Norfolk, Va. 23508

North Texas—David Carothers, ’61, 5532 Park
Lane, Dallas, Texas 75220

Northern California—Paul R. Speckman, Jr.,
’57, 1296 Blaney Avenue, San Jose, Calif.
95129

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., ’63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-
stein, °’53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Holly-
wood, Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling,
Dowling, Sanders and Dukes, Box 1027,
Beaufort, S.C. 29902

Peninsula—Dr. Frank S. Beazlie, Jr., ’40,
aaate Mallicotte Lane, Newport News, Va.

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’63, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Theodore G. Rich, Jr., ’58, 226
W. Rittenhouse Square No. 3011, Philadel-
phia, Pa. 19103

Piedmont—Walter Hannah, ’50, 5100 Laurinda
Drive, Greensboro, N.C. 27410

Richmond—John J. Fox, Jr., ’57, 6425 Handy
Lane, Richmond, Va. 23226
oanoke—William S. Hubard, ’50, Shenan-
doah Life Ins. Co., Roanoke, Va. 24010

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree, III, ’59, P.O.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450

San Antonio—Edgar M. Duncan, ’61, 700
Wiltshire, San Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Andrew N. Baur, ’67, 1631 Dear-
born, St. Louis, Mo. 63122

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, ’41, P.O. Drawer 4106, Station B,
Anderson, 8. C. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
’53, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Stanley Hooker, Jr., ’39, 1185
Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Tulsa—Neil McNeill, ’50, 3724 South Florence,
Tulsa, Okla. 74105

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507

umberland Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—Joseph J. Smith, III, ’60, Legg,
Mason and Co., 8740 Georgia Avenue, Silver
Spring, Md, 20910

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, ’62, 3010
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Greenville, Wilmington, Delaware 19807

31

Class notes

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $44.50 f.o.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
The normal shipping interval is

five to six weeks after the receipt of
the order.

 

 

 

32

1928

WILLIAM P. WoopLey, who has held the dual
position of chairman of the board and presi-
dent of the Columbian Peanut Co. since
1970, has been succeeded in the _ office
of president by H. Waller Whittemore.
Woodley will continue to hold his position
as chairman of the board.

1930

MONTE ROSENBERG is a Special Trial Counsel
for the city of Miami, Fla.

1931

Dr. DUNCAN MCCONNELL has been busy giv-
ing scientific lectures at the National Uni-
versity of Mexico and at the Dental Science
Institute at the University of Texas at Hous-
ton. He is also in the process of having a
book, Volume 5 of Applied Mineralogy, pub-

lished.
1937

FILLMORE G. WILSON has recently been nam-
ed chairman of the board of R. S. Noonan,
Inc. of S. C. He was executive vice presi-
dent. He has been an original employee of
the firm since the company was established
in 1966. Wilson has over 25 years of en-
gineering and administrative experience.
Throughout his career he has been primarily
associated with engineering and design serv-
ices to the pulp and paper industry.

1938

Joun D. STERRETT, JR., formerly the senior
vice president and chief executive officer of
the Wytheville, Va. offices of the First Na-
tional Exchange Bank, has been named presi-
dent of the newly organized Dominion Bank
of York County in Williamsburg, Va. Ster-
rett was formerly with the Rockbridge Na-
tional Bank in Lexington. He became presi-
dent of the First National Farmer’s Bank in
Wytheville in 1962 and was made senior
vice president of the First National Ex-
change Bank when it merged with the First
National Farmer’s in 1963.

93a

Roy Hocan is a Consulting Petroleum Geo-
logist in Wichita Falls, Tex. He was elected
president of the North Texas Geological
Society for 1972-73.

RANDOLPH D. Rouse presided over ground-
breaking ceremonies in Newport News re-

cently for the 12-story office building which
will be called Rouse Tower and which he
has developed and is constructing. The
Tower is named for his father, Parke Shep-
pard Rouse; a brother, John Dashiell Rouse,
killed in Korea, and a cousin, William E.
Rouse. Also at the opening ceremonies was
his mother, Mrs. Parke S. Rouse. Rouse is
a successful land developer in northern

Virginia.

1947
W. JoHN DaNieL has been appointed presi-
dent of the Delta & Pine Land Co. of Scott,
Miss. He was formerly executive vice presi-
dent and had served as vice _ president,
treasurer and secretary. Before joining Delta
& Pine in.1951, he was employed by Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell and Co. Delta & Pine
are originators and producers of Deltapine
Cotton Varieties and Cotton Planting Seed.
The company has divisions in Lubbock,
Tex., and Brawley, Calif.

1943

Jupce A. H. Lane of Bartow, Fla. has been
re-elected to another six-year term as Cir-
cuit Judge of the Tenth Judicial Circuit of
Florida. Lane was first appointed circuit
judge by the governor in 1964 and was re-
elected without opposition in 1966. Lane was
also selected as the most qualified judge in a
qualification poll sponsored by the Tenth
Judicial Circuit Bar Association.

949

CARLTON H. KiIsER has been promoted from
manager of the bonding loss department to
vice president of Chubb & Son, New York
City. Kiser joined Chubb in 1949 but left to
practice law before returning to the com-
pany in 1952.

Joun S. R. SCHOENFELD is executive vice-
president of the National Association of
Securities Dealers, Inc. in Washington, D. C.

1950

James E. CANTLER is the new Rector of St.
Bartholomew’s Church in Baltimore, Md.

1951

JosepH E. KiLinc has been appointed a pric-
ing director, corporate photographic pricing
department, for Eastman Kodak Co. Kling

began his Kodak career in 1959 as a
cost accountant at Tennessee Eastman
WeL

Among the American editors visiting
the Summer Palace on National Day,
Oct. 1, 1972, in the Peoples Republic of
China were W&L men: Charles S. Rowe
(first row, second from left), Robert M.
White, II, (back row in striped tie), and

I. William Hill (first row, extreme right).

Co. He has held a variety of financial
positions with assignments in numerous
marketing divisions and was appointed ad-
ministrative assistant, pricing services, in
1970.

SAM D. EGGLESTON, JR., an attorney in Loy-
ingston, Va. is Commonwealth Attorney for
Nelson County.

1952

D. Ray Leister, formerly the training direc-
tor, has been promoted by Boddie-Noell
Enterprises, Inc. to the position of vice presi-
dent in charge of training. Mr. Leister join-
ed Boddie-Noell in 1970. The firm is the
largest franchised company of Hardee’s
Food Systems, Inc. Before joining Boddie-
Noell, Leister served as director of adver-
tising and franchise relations in the Hardee
Food Systems. Leister served with the U. S.
Navy three years. He is a member of the
Council of Hotel and Restaurant Trainers.
He and his wife, the former Jane Andrews,
and their three children live in Rocky
Mount, N. C.

Dr. JOHN WILLCOxON has been appointed
chairman of the University of Northern
Colorado Theater Arts Department. He be-
came a member of the faculty in 1961. Prior
to joining the University of Northern Colo-
rado, Willcoxon taught at the University of
Minnesota and at Kansas State College.

1953

C. PRATT RATHER, JR., vice president of the
First National Bank, has been named presi-
dent and chief executive officer of the Bank
of the Southeast in Birmingham, Ala.

1954

The class note on Page 20 of the December,
1972, issue of the magazine under the Class
of 1954 referring to JoHN L. DANIEL was in
error. The name should have been W. JOHN
DANIEL. Please refer to a correction in this
issue under the Class of 1942.

1956

R. C. GUNNAR MILLER was recently named by
the mayor of the city of Jacksonville, Fla.,
to the post of chief of the real estate divi-
sion of the city department of housing and
urban development. An attorney, Miller has
been employed by the Duval County Legal
Aid Association for the past five years. He

January, 1973

See story below.

is a founder and trustee of the Riverside
Baptist Day School.

1957

H. MERRILL PLAIsTED, III has recently been
elected vice president of Morton G. Thal-
himer, Inc. in Richmond. Plaisted joined
Thalhimer in January, 1960. In May, 1969
he was elected to the board of directors. He
is currently chairman of the Board of Big
Brothers of Richmond and director of the
Richmond Board of Realtors, the Virginia
Association of Realtors, and the Robert E.
Lee Council of Boy Scouts of America.

1958

STEPHEN Berc is president of a public re-
lations firm in New York City, Stephen Berg/
Public Relations Company. The firm has
recently been retained by the Financial
Analysts Federation for public relations
consulting and publicity. The Federation is
the professional organization of investment
analysts, portfolio managers and investment
executives. Prior to setting up his own firm,
Berg was vice president and director of
financial relations for Jay DeBow & Part-
ners, Inc., a Manhattan-based public rela-

tions firm.
1959

FREDERICK O. GRIFFITH, a practicing attorney

 

 

WkL MEN IN CHINA

Washington and Lee was well repre-
sented in the delegation of 21 editors
who visited the Peoples Republic of
China in September and October,
the largest group of journalists to visit
China since President Nixon’s trip
there. The W&L men were Robert M.
White, II, ’38, of the Mexico (Mo.)
Ledger, Charles S. Rowe, 45, of the
Fredericksburg (Va.) Free Lance-Star,
and I. William Hill, ’29, of the Wash-
ington (D.C.) Star-News. Rowe report-
ed that W&L had more alumni on the
trip than any other college or univer-
sity. The trip was sponsored by the
American Society of Newspaper Edi-
tors. The editors had the longest and
most comprehensive tour of China
since Mao came to power in 1949, tra-
veling 4,000 miles in five provinces and
visiting eight urban and rural centers.

 

 

 

in Greensburg, Pa., has also organized the
Crestview Real Estate & Associates. This is
a company dealing in sales, management,
consulting, income tax service and land de-
velopment. Prior to the practice of law,
Griffith was in hospital administration

work.
1960

Jack C. Groner has received his C.L.U. des-
ignation (Chartered Life Underwriters). Gro-
ner is an executive with the Group Sales
Division of Blue Cross Insurance Co. in New

Orleans, La.
1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp A. Ames, III
a daughter, Katherine Henry, on September
5, 1972.

Dr. JAMES C. PARKER received his Ph.D. de-
gree in Physiology and Biophysics from the
University of Mississippi School of Medicine
where he is currently employed as a re-
search assistant.

NorBert W. IRVINE, assistant professor of art
at Atlantic Christian College in Wilson,
N. C., has been elected chairman of the
Higher Education and Research Division of
the North Carolina Art Education Associa-
tion. The purpose of the association is to
foster improvement of art education and
curriculums in the public schools of North

Carolina.
1962

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GrEorcE E. Honts, III
a son, George Edward, IV on March 15,
1972.

THOMAS B. SHERWOOD, formerly assistant to
the president, has been named vice presi-
dent of The Columbian Peanut Co., one
of the nation’s largest peanut handlers.
Sherwood is also chairman of the Agribusi-
ness Committee of the Norfolk Chamber of
Commerce.

Dr. ROBERT P. CARROLL, JR. is student health
physician at Stephen F. Austin State Uni-
versity in Texas.

An advertisement in the Oct. 9 issue of
Newsweek featured FREDERICK R. NELSON. He
is District Manager of Connecticut General
Life Insurance Co. in the Cincinnati group
pension office.

1963

MEADE F. RosE has been appointed an assis-

33

J. E. Kling, ’51

D. R. Leister, 752

tast vice president for Philadelphia Na-
tional Bank. Rose joined PNB in 1966 in
the bank’s credit department.

1964

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. FITz a
son, Eric William, on Oct. 29, 1972. Fitz is
an attorney in Washington, D. C. engaged
in practice before the Federal Communica-
tions Commission.

After four years in the Navy Judge Advo-
cate General’s Corps, D. CULVER SmiTH, III
is returning to West Palm Beach, Fla. and
the private practice of law. He and _ his
wife, Sandy, have two children.

1965

ROBERT S. PLESs, counsel and assistant secre-
tary, has been elected to the board of direc-
tors of Larus and Brothers Co., Inc. of Rich-
mond. The firm manufacturers House of
Edgeworth tobacco products.

1966

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WALTER W. STELLE a
son, Darren Livingston, on Feb. 11, 1972.
After receiving a doctorate in clinical psy-
chology from the University of Pittsburgh,
Stelle is now employed by the Veterans Ad-
ministration Leech Farm Hospital in Pitts-
burgh.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs.
New Orleans a son,
1972.

HARRY DENNERY of
Michael, on Oct. 24,

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, JR. has been pro-
moted to the position of Loan Administra-
tion Officer for the Fidelity National Bank
in Lynchburg, Va. Washburn joined the
staff in 1970.

RoBert B. Hupson, having received a Ph.D.
in political science from the University of
North Carolina, is now Assistant Professor
of Politics and Social Welfare at the Flor-
ence Heller Graduate School for Advance
Studies in Social Welfare at Brandeis Uni-
versity. He is married to the former Kath-
leen Stein.

Tuomas F. Coates, HI has been appointed
an Assistant Commonwealth Attorney for
Richmond, Va. He will be assigned to pro-
secute cases in Richmond’s traffic court.
Coates is in the private practice of law with
the firm of Venable and McCarthy.

34

 

 

H. M. Plaisted, ’57

JEFFREY B. RICE practices law in Fairfax,
Va. and trains thoroughbred race horses on
his farm at Broad Run.

1968

MARRIED: ArTHUR M. MEYER, JR. and
Kathy Magee were married Aug. 26, 1972 in
Dallas. ‘The couple plans to make their home
in Austin, Tex. where Meyer is presently a
law clerk for Russell James Horn.

After release from Navy duty aboard the
U.S. 8. Richard E. Byrd JOHN H. LAWRENCE,
Jr. and his wife are in Charlottesville where
John is attending law school at the Univer-
sity of Virginia.

PARKER DENACO, an attorney in Bangor, Me.,
has been appointed executive director of the
Public Employees Labor Relations Board
which is responsible for the administration
of labor laws governing public employees of
municipalities and their subdivisions. Den-
aco was admitted to the Maine Bar and the
federal courts in 1968. From 1969 to 1971 he
served a tour of active duty with the army
as a military police officer and is currently a
captain in a local civil affairs reserve unit.

“dy

1923 |
= 0th)

 

dates now.

 

 

  
   
    
 

 

IO S—SPRIN G, 1973
d mic and Law Classes
1948
(25th) |
ee | and

i THE C OLD GUARD |

all Classes Prior to 1923)
on MAY 11 and 12

Invitation and reservation forms will be mailed to
members of the reunion Classes. -But reserve the

PS. Fall Class: Reunions honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of 1928, 1938, 1943, 1953, and 1968 will be held October 19-20, 1973.

(Notes on preceding pages.)

1969

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Patrick K. AREY a
daughter, Pamela Lindsay, on Sept. 22, 1972.
Arey is stationed at Ft. Carson in Colo.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. JOHNSON a
daughter, Cathleen Denise, on Oct. 17, 1972.
The family lives in Dallas, ‘Tex.

The Rev. STEPHEN J. WALLER was ordained
a Deacon in the Episcopal Church and _ is
now assistant to the Rector of the Church
of the Redeemer in Ruston, La.

JuLIAN WALTHALL has been named president
of the third year class at Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond. He will also serve
as a member of the Steering Committee and
the Student Council.

CHARLES R. (Rick) CHiTruM of Staunton,
Va. had a special showing of film which
took place during orientation week at Vir-
ginia Wesleyan College. In addition to his
talents as a cinematographer, Rick is also
a farmer growing Christmas trees, an actor
in an amateur theater, a collector of moun-
tain lore and music, a player of the mando-
lin and home owner who has built or re-
built an old log house on his approximate-

 

 

  

1958
“(shy

1963
~ (10th)

 

 

WeL

a4

y > we

il

rd

In the small-world department was this
group of Washington and Lee couples
who found themselves aboard the same
ship Mermoz on a Mediterranean cruise in
October: Oliver W. Hickel, Jr., ’37, and
Mrs. Hickel; Mrs. Harold J. Sullivan and
Col. Sullivan, ’32, and Mrs. Andrew H.
Baur and Mr. Baur, ’37. The Sullivans

are from Oklahoma City, and the Hickels

ly 60 acre farm. He is associated with the
Staunton based traveling theatre ensemble,
the Theater Wagon. The State Depart-
ment of Education has asked his help as a
consultant for a film being done on urban,
suburban, and rural life styles in the state.

JEREMY E. BROWN has been awarded First-
Year Honors at the Harvard Business
School. He expects to receive the M.B.A.
degree in June 1973.

1970

MARRIED: GeorcE W. HAMLIN and Kali
Elizabeth Hummel were married June 14,
1972 in Scarsdale, N. Y. Howard L. (Skip)
Hansberry, ’70 was among the wedding
party. Hamlin is employed as a financial
analyst by Trans World Airlines in New
York City.

WiLL1AM A. WILSON is currently enrolled at
the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic

Medicine.
197]

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT V. CARR, JR.
of Reston, Va. a daughter, Harriet Christian,
on July 10, 1972.

1972

Ep LEVIN, a graduate student at Emory
University’s sociology department, conducts
a special summer program for underprivi-
leged children who are slow readers. The
program consists of taking pictures of the
children during a particular activity or ex-
perience at camp and then helping the child
compile the pictures and write stories of
their experiences.

JAMEs A. PHiLpottT, JR. has joined the staff
of Judge J. B. Craven of the U. S. Fourth
Circuit Court of Appeals in Ashville, N. C.
as law clerk. He is involved in researching
cases, writing opinions, traveling to other
cities in the fourth district and other duties.
Philpott, a member of the Order of the Coif,

was editor of the Washington and Lee Law
Review.

 

 

In Memoriam

 

 

1905

Ett Morratr MILLEN, an author and a for-
mer member of the staff of the New York
Times, Ladies Home Journal, McCalls, and

January, 1973

and Baurs from St. Louis.

Red Book, died Oct. 24, 1972. At the time of
his death he was living in East Orange,

N. J.
1909

WILEY BisHop HAMPTON of St. Petersburg,
Fla., formerly of Tuskegee, Ala., died Oct.
5, 1972. Hampton had been in the lumber
business. He was a retired U. S. Army officer
and was a former secretary of the National
Soil Conservation Association. Hampton was
a past Master of the Masonic Lodge of
Fordyce and a York and Scottish Rite Mason.

1912

DurFF M. GReEN of Fredericksburg, Va., died
Sept. 17, 1972.

DANIEL LESTER SNYDER, a retired Methodist
minister who served several years as associ-
ate pastor of the First Methodist Church in
Eustis, Fla., died Sept. 16, 1972. Snyder
had studied at Princeton Theological Semi-
nary and was awarded the honorary degree
of Doctor of Divinity by the Asbury Theolo-
gical Seminary in Wilmore, Ky.

1917

HAYNES LAWRENCE MorGAN, a farmer and
an executive in the lumber business, died
April 15, 1972 in Abingdon, Va. Morgan
was a veteran of World War I.

JoHN PuRcELL Norris, an attorney of Lam-
bertville, N. J., died Aug. 2, 1972. Norris
was a former investigator for the Motor Fuel
Tax Bureau of N. J.

1920

Harry L. Moore, Sr., former head of the
poultry department at Virginia Tech, died
Oct. 24, 1972 in Fla. Moore joined Virginia
Tech as a poultry extension specialist in
1929 and retired as professor of poultry and

head of the department in 1957. Moore

served two years during World War I with
the W&L Army Ambulance Corp Unit and
was a devoted member of that organization.

192]

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD PATTERSON, a retired
farmer and businessman in Staunton, Va.,
died Oct. 3, 1972.

AusTIN B. TAYLor of Houston and formerly
of Little Rock, Ark. died Oct. 29, 1972. Tay-
lor first practiced law in Little Rock and

 

in New
Rome = and

thereafter
Geneva,

Paris,
European
cities. He became an independent oil pro-
ducer and pipeline operator in the 1920s.
He was also a foreign consultant for Hunt
International Petroleum Co.

York, Boston,
numerous

CHARLES WESLEY Moss, a Richmond lawyer
and local political figure for three decades,
died Oct. 24, 1972. Moss served five terms in
the House of Delegates during the 1930s and
early 1940s. He also served on the old City
Board of Aldermen until 1930. He had
practiced law in Richmond for 50 years.

1923

JouHN WILMER LONG, an attorney in Charles-
ton, W. Va., died Aug. 6, 1972.

CLARENCE JOHNSON LIDDELL, a long-time em-
ployee with Southern New England Tele-
phone Co., died Sept. 27, 1972. Liddell had
been retired for a number of years and was
living in Seminole, Fla. at the time of his
death.

1924

WILLIAM OsBORNE LEE, a prominent attor-
ney in Lumberton, N. C., died Oct. 24,
1972. Lee was admitted to the practice
of law in N. C. in 1925. He was a member
of the County and State Bar Associations,
former Judge of the Robeson Recorder
Court, U. S. Commissioner and Lumberton
city attorney.

FRANK W. REEVES, a former Ford automo-
bile dealer in Helena, Ark., died Oct. 5,

1972.
1952

WILSON MARSHALL ROACH, a long-time bank-
er and insurance executive in Silver Spring,
Md., died Oct. 15, 1972. Since coming to
Silver Spring Roach had_ been associ-
ated with the Massachusetts Protective As-
sociation Inc. and Paul Revere Life Insur-

ance Co.
1927

NicHoLas W. KLEIN, JR., an attorney and
realtor of Louisville, Ky., died Oct. 11, 1972.

HARRY CHIPMAN RAND, well known Burleson,
Tex. civic leader and past president of the
Fort Worth Optimist Club, died Oct. 3,
1972. He was advertising manager of the
Burleson Star. He also worked 22 years as
sales manager for Universal Mills in Fort
Worth.

35

In Memoriam

 

1928

WALLACE MCCULLOUGH PARKER, an attorney
in Pittsburgh, Pa., died Feb. 24, 1972.

1930

WILLIAM M. Hayes, a resident of Jamaica
Plain, Mass., died July 3, 1972.

1934

Lewis EUGENE HARDWICK, at one time coun-
sel for Bearfoot Sole Co. of Wadsworth,
Ohio and later connected with the Ameri-
can Biltright Rubber Co., died Oct. 25,

1972,
1939

WILLIAM E. LivesAy of Charleston, W. Va.
died Nov. 9, 1972. He was an employee of
Moore Construction Co. and a former em-
ployee of the Diamond Department Store.

VictoR ADAMS SNow, Jr. of Indianapolis,
Ind. died Oct. 8, 1972. Snow was a native of
Man, W. Va. and had lived in Louisville,
Ky. where he had worked for Belknap, Inc.
for 23 years. At the time of his death he was
vice president of sales for Van Camp Hard-
ware Co. in Indianapolis.

1942

Dr. JOHN Morris ATwoop, a physician of
Yuba City, Calif., died in Oct., 1972. Atwood
had been on campus in September with his
son who entered as a freshman.

1949

DAvin LOGAN O’MARA, an estate tax exami-
ner for the Internal Revenue Service, died
Sept. 16, 1972 in Pittsburgh. A veteran of
World War II, O’Mara was a member of the
Lawyers’ Club of Allegheny County, the
federal bar association, Syria Shrine, and the
Pennsylvania Consistory.

1972

WILLIAM Conpit SCHLICK, who completed
his freshman year at Washington and Lee,
died Sept. 6, 1972 as a result of an automo-
bile accident near Tieton Ranger Station on
the Snoqualmie National Forest in Washing-
ton. Having graduated from the University
of Washington, he was working for the U.S.
Forest Service. Schlick, at the time of his
death, was enrolled at the Goethe Institute
Center at Grafing, Germany.

36

 

 

Name your candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-Laws of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., the names, pictures and addresses of the Nominating
Committee for 1972-73 are listed below.

The committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill three
seats on the Alumni Board of Directors and one vacancy on the Uni-
versity Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Alumni Association may
submit the names of alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomina-
tion for the offices to be filled. Alumni may send names to any member
of the committee or to the committee through the office of the executive
secretary of the Alumni Association.

The committee will close its report on March 23, 1973, and present
its nominations to the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on
May 12, 1973. The annual meeting coincides with the Spring Reunion
Weekend.

Members of the 12-man Alumni Board of Directors are elected to
four-year terms, with the terms of three members expiring each year.
Retiring from the board in May are A. Christian Compton, ’50, of
Richmond; Upton Beall, *51, of ‘Tyler, ex., and Beauregard A.
Redmond, °55, of New Orleans. Alumni members of the Athletic
Committee serve two-year terms with one alumni member retiring each
year. The member retiring in May is Thompson W. Goodwin, ’62, of
Roanoke.

      

PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, 757
Attorney

603 Philtower Building
Tulsa, Okla. 74103

PARKE S. Rouse, JR., °37  RosBerT O. PAXTON, 54
Chairman Professor of History,
Executive Director, Columbia University
The Jamestown Foundation 560 Riverside Drive
P.O. Drawer JF Apartment 12-K

Williamsburg, Va. 23185 New York, N.Y. 10027

 

 

WeL

oe

ae
4

>

 

Use Order Form Below:

ROCKBRIDGE CHAPTER—W&L
P.O. Box 948
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me the items checked below. Make
checks payable to Rockbridge Chapter—WeL.

[ ] Large ice bucket, $45.00 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Small ice bucket, $37.50 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Big tray, $15.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.
| j Round tray, $9.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.

Ree Re eee EERE ERE EE HEHEHE HEHE EE HEHEHE EEEEEE EEE EHEEEEH HEHEHE EEEES EEE HEHEHE ERE HHEOEE

i ee ee ee ee ee

Rity and Stale... ip...
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

Frayment of 3... 2... is enclosed.

WASHINGTON
AND LEE

IGE BUCKETS
AND TRAYS

The Rockbridge Chapter of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, by authority of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is offering these
handsome ice buckets and trays for sale to raise
funds for the University.

Manufactured by the Bacova Guild, they are made
of durable fiber glass and bear the Washington
and Lee crest in full color. The ice buckets have
hand-rubbed mahogany tops. They are a welcome
addition to any home.

All profit from sale of these items goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.
Income from the fund helps worthy students
attend Washington and Lee.

THE PRICES:

Large ice bucket (three gallons) $45.00 plus $2
handling and postage.

Small ice bucket (five quarts) $37.50 plus $2
handling and postage.

Big tray, (16x21) $15.00 plus $1 handling and
postage.

Round tray (14 inches) $9 plus $1 handling and
postage.

Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

