the alumni magazine of washington and lee university NOVEMBER 1979

 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 54, Number 8, November 1979

William C. Washburn, 40 .............. cece eeeeeeeeeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ............cccccccceeeeees Associate Editor
M. Gray Coleman, 79 ................000c00 ees Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ........cccc cece ccc eee eee eee en es Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ..........c. ccc cc eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenenes Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Special Alumni Conference .................0c0ceeeeeees 1
Lee Associates on Campus ................0ccceeeeee eens 6
Changes in Board of Trustees .................0ceee ees 8
1929 Memorial Scholarship .....................0000e0e 9
Eppley: New Treasurer ............cccccecenseceeeeeaeees 10
WL Gazette .......c cece cece nsec eee eenaeenae onan 12
On the Walls of Lee Chapel ....................0.00000 18
Chapter NeWS ...........ccccccececeeeee eee eeeeeeaeeeeeeaes 21
Class NOtes ..........cccccccec ene ec ee eee essa eeees ene eneenes 23
Name Your Candidate .................ccceceeeeneee eee 24
Chapter Presidents ................ccccceceeeeeeeeeseueees 26
In Memoriam ........... occ ceneesaceceseneoscesscesensnaess 28

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
President

RICHARD A. DENNY, 152, Atlanta, Ga.
Vice President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD Balt, 49, Spartanburg, S. C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.
PuILip R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.

JAMES F.. GALLIVAN, 151, Nashville, Tenn.

G. RUSSELL Lapp, 157, Mobile, Ala.
JOHN H. MCCORMACK Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

als

7

ON THE COVER: In an early morning mist, two
Washington and Lee students follow the serpentine
walk that leads to the Colonnade. It is an ageless scene,
particularly in late fall. Many developments have
changed the face of the back campus, but as Dr. A.
McGehee Harvey points out in the article beginning
on the next page, the permanence of the charm of the
historic front campus is reassuring. Photograph by
Sally Mann.

 

 

 

Approximately 70 alumni were on campus Oct. 4-6 for the
11th annual Special Alumni Conference, an on-going program
designed to build better communication and understanding
between alumni and other members of the University family.
The participants attended small-group sessions for in-depth
looks at University finance, governance, and development:
teaching at Washington and Lee; admissions, student
recruitment, and student life; athletics and student government.
Following are reports from four alumni who were invited to
record their impressions of W&L from the perspective of their
three-day intensive examination of University affairs.

 

 

by A. McGehee Harvey, M.D., ’30

Driving down the beautiful Shenandoah Valley on a lovely
fall day to revisit the University that I had said goodbye to
almost a half century ago, I was concerned that my memories of
its unique character and its important role in my intellectual
development might be tarnished by what I was to experience.
Fortunately my first move on arriving in Lexington was to view
the campus from the walk that goes up the hill to the Lee
House, looking toward Tucker Hall. There was the inspiring
Colonnade of Washington Hall on the left with the Lee Chapel
below and every tree and leaf seemingly still in place, just as it
was in 1930 when I left Lexington for Baltimore. Closing my
eyes, I could see Henry Louis Smith walking quickly along, and
soon my memory was crowded with the faces of all those who
taught me when I was so young and eager to learn.

As stated in Genesis: “There were giants on the earth in
those days and they became mighty men—men of renown.”
With the student body at Washington and Lee partially depleted
because of the Great Depression, one had close contact with the
professors and many of those giants who “walked the earth” had
found their home on that campus in Lexington. As the sun
radiates light, which when absorbed is turned by mystic

Special Alumni
Conference 1979

Four Participants Capsule
Their Views in Candid Reports

“There is a strong
motivation to main-
tain Washington and
Lee's independence
and to assemble a
high quality student
body and the excellent
faculty required to
meet the needs of
those students.”

MAC HARVEY

processes into quanta of energy for future use, so it is that some
men radiate forces which when absorbed by those fortunate
enough to receive them, become sources of great strength in the
journey through life. Thus I acknowledge my indebtedness to
those giants who contributed so much to the shaping of my own
career: among them “Daddy” Howe, “Duke” Desha, “Bugs”
Hoyt, “Cutie” Easter and Johnney Graham. Fifty years later I
have a better appreciation of what is meant by a liberal
education.

The greater part of my time at Washington and Lee was
spent in the sciences, but my minor subject was history. I
developed a real enthusiasm for the study of history as a result
of the stimulation provided by Professors Riley, Bean, and
Crenshaw. That enthusiasm never died, and when my official
University retirement from Johns Hopkins approached, I
launched a second career which I had been forced to keep under
wraps during 27 busy years as a department chairman—that of
medical historian.

When I brought this delightful first encounter with the
campus to an end I was next shown the new facilities, including
the enlarged gymnasium, the magnificent new library, and the
equally impressive law school. However, having been an
educator throughout my career, I was most anxious to see if

there were modern day giants walking the campus as there were
in my student days. The strength of a university lies not in the
material grandeur of its buildings, as necessary as those are in
this technological age, but in the quality of the students and
faculty who populate those buildings.

The sessions arranged to discuss these important aspects of
the current scene at Washington and Lee were well organized
and what I learned dispelled any anxieties I might have had
about what the school is like today. One cannot become an
expert on what the score really is in only three days, but
knowing what to look for helps. It was quickly apparent that the
leadership is superb; the President has a clear grasp of the
important fact that a university consists of a community of
creative scholars with the unanimous goal of developing a
stimulating educational environment, and he is thoroughly
capable of articulating his beliefs and attaining his objectives.
There is a strong motivation to maintain Washington and Lee’s
independence and to assemble a high quality student body and
the excellent faculty required to meet the needs of those
students.

I found the students to be as friendly, as bright and as
excited as they were in my undergraduate days. I was impressed

that the faculty is aware of the real goals of undergraduate
education and seem enthusiastic about their academic mission.
The discussions made it clear that there are problems
underlying student-faculty relations and others besides, but I
came away with the distinct feeling that these seemingly
insoluble problems would be viewed and handled by the current
Washington and Lee family as exciting opportunities.

I think every alumnus can feel comfortable about the future
of Washington and Lee. The necessity of carving out a place in a
very disorganized world may seem a hopeless task to the present
student body, but prospects for success could not appear more
bleak than they did to us, hemmed in by the Great Depression
of the early 1930s. Everything turned out pretty well, and it will
again if one recognizes the opportunities available to him and
takes away the best of what Washington and Lee still provides.

A. McGehee Harvey, M.D.., is professor of medicine emeritus
at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine and archi-
vist for the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions; he was chairman
of the Department of Medicine at the school and physician-in-
chief of the Johns Hopkins Hospital from 1946 to 1973. He lives
in Baltimore.

SPP SIT EE PS PSD Se

 

by William W. Burton, ‘48

In reflecting upon the conference as it relates to the
University today and in the future, my impressions range from
that of pride at what I see Washington and Lee is today to one of
concern regarding a couple of things that could possibly have an
adverse effect upon the school.

The most discernible thing is, of course, the physical plant.
The entire back campus with the new library, Lewis Hall,
Woods Creek Apartments, new athletic fields, and tennis courts
is most impressive. Yet, with all of that, the more things change
the more they remain the same—the front campus still remains
essentially unchanged for generations of Washington and Lee
students.

2

“The people I spoke
with . . . conveyed a
feeling of knowing
what they wanted
to do, why they
wanted to do it,

and when it

should be done.”

BILL BURTON

My impression of the admissions and alumni student
recruitment programs was most satisfying. With secondary
school graduating classes decreasing in size in the foreseeable
future, the admissions and recruitment procedures become
extremely important. My own experience with W&L admissions
about six years ago was very pleasant, and it was gratifying to
learn that the present admissions staff plans to continue on and
further accentuate this positive attitude toward applicants. It
seems so obvious, and yet some other fine private schools do not
seem to realize the need to put one’s best foot forward, both as
regards the prospective student and also the parents. The
Washington and Lee admissions office seems well tuned to the
fact that what counts is how we are perceived by others.

The University’s financial management seems to be quite

sound. Two things come to mind. One is the relatively modest
increase in tuition, room, and board in the last few years
without, apparently, too much undue stress on the balance
sheet. However, it was explained that these increases will have
to be steeper in the future now that inflation is accelerating.
Nevertheless, the financial management must have been
prudent during those years. Another strength is in the growth of
the annual Alumni Fund. The figures show an enrollment
increase of about 20% from 10 years ago, and yet the alumni
giving has increased by some 190% over those years. Given the
inflated money of recent times this increase in annual giving may
not appear too significant. However, there are other exceptionally
fine private schools where alumni contributions lag far behind
Washington and Lee’s, both in total dollars and percent of alumni
contributing.

On balance, I was favorably impressed with the student
body. Although conventional dress and speaking on campus
disappeared years ago, the students, for the most part, dressed
in a presentable manner and several spoke to me during the
three-day session. The meeting with the students alone was one
of the most enjoyable of all. I found them to be poised,
confident about what they wanted to pursue in life, and willing
to articulate their feelings and positions on various issues.

As always, the faculty was both engaging and informative. In
all my formal education the finest teachers or professors I had
were at Washington and Lee and it was nice to see, and hear
first hand from President Huntley, that we are still primarily a
teaching institution. It was also refreshing to learn that the
Washington and Lee faculty is, by national standards, among the
better paid in the country. Competence should be rewarded and
one would hope this philosophy of the school will continue.

The aforementioned strengths were, however, partially
counterbalanced by two things that appear to be cause for
concern. One is the apparent continued separation of the law
school from the rest of the University, and the other is the
dilapidated condition of many fraternity houses.

Alumni have ascertained (via Ring-tum Phi reports, student
sentiment, or however) that the law school classes of the last
several years have considered themselves more or less separate
from the main stream of University life. Further, they feel this
may have been exacerbated by the location of Lewis Hall across
Woods Creek and therefore removed from the front campus. As
a consequence, contact between the undergraduates and law
students is probably almost nonexistent. However, the real
worry among alumni seemed to run deeper than mere
separation of the two groups as that in itself is not necessarily
cause for alarm. The concern seems to focus on the current mix

of law students and a perceived threat (real or imagined) to the
Honor System. The law school is now quite cosmopolitan. The
1979 entering class of 112 came from 70 undergraduate
institutions and the school is thought of as very competitive.
This in itself is obviously a strength but at the same time
presents a dichotomy—since only about 6 percent of the
entering class attended W&L, there is a fear that the Honor
System at the law school could be in jeopardy. It seems there
will be only a minimum number of W&L students in the law
school to help instill the Honor tradition into the thinking of the
entering non-W&L people. Since it is well known that cheating
is on the increase around the country (and in some cases is
rampant) the anxiety seems justified.

The second item of concern is the run-down condition of
many fraternity houses. Whether owned by the University or
not, each fraternity is a direct reflection of the University to
outsiders, be they townspeople, tourists, visiting dignitaries,
applicants, parents, or whomever. It is certainly not an
exaggeration to say that some houses are a disgrace. In most
cases, I imagine, the current classes going through W&L found
the houses in this condition when they arrived here and
certainly cannot be held accountable. My understanding is that
one fraternity has already taken aggressive steps to correct the
situation. Certainly all should do the same. It would be a
constructive endeavor to undertake for the school and also for
themselves.

All things considered I feel Washington and Lee is in very
capable hands today. The people I spoke with, both
administrative and faculty, conveyed a feeling of knowing what
they wanted to do, why they wanted to do it, and when it should
be done. Perhaps my thoughts are best summarized by a Yale
student publication of a few years ago which stated “Washington
and Lee has, in many ways, integrated the best of two worlds
with a deep feeling of innovation and enthusiasm that bubbles
beneath a warm and friendly spirit. Like the state of Virginia
itself, the school has one foot in the North and one in the South,
one in the past and one in the future. Surprisingly enough,
however, the sum is for many a collegiate paradise and not a
split personality. ”

In conclusion, I would like to offer a suggestion to the
present student body—listen to the Southern Comfort rendition
of “College Friendships.” I must say I’ve never heard it sung
any better.

William W. Burton is a managerial engineer with the Gas Turbine
Systems Division of Westinghouse Electric Corp. in Lester, Pa.
He lives in Drexel Hill.

by Philip G. Grose Jr., 60

The Ivory Tower is alive and well in Lexington, Va., thank
goodness.

Unapologetically, Washington and Lee still seems wedded to
the impertinent notion that the pursuit of excellence is a self-
justifying enterprise.

At least that seemed to be the message from three chilly
days in October, when alumni were invited back to inspect and
examine the vital signs of the aging, but not aged, University.

It’s a good idea, these visits. There is always the lurking
suspicion that the new buildings bereft of their neo-classical
facade somehow represent an accommodation with modernity.
There is the dread that the crossing of Wood’s Creek represents
a crossing into the Stygian gloom of educational practicality.

There was even the outright fear that somewhere along the
way, someone might suggest that Washington and Lee was
preparing its graduates for “rewarding careers,” or “a rightful
place in this society of ours.”

Happily, such does not seem to be the case. From President
Huntley comes the understated reassurance that graduates “will
take with them the makings of an educated mind.” That’s the
stuff of which ivory towers are made.

To be sure, the fiscal underpinnings are receiving attention
these days. In that cornucopia of data compiled by Frank
Parsons for use at the Alumni Conference, one learns that we’re
flirting with a deficit this year of minor proportions, that our
endowment is healthy but still lagging behind some of our peers
and near-peers such as Sewanee, Sweet Briar, Davidson,
Hampden-Sydney and Johns Hopkins. The more erudite

 

question the investment portfolio, and the less erudite wonder if
tuition is irretrievably pegged at Mercedes-Benz level.

But such concerns seem to be not all that dire. The
financial baton is passing in apparent good shape from
Whitehead to Epley, and with the likes of Hotchkiss, Hollister,
et al. out there pounding the development pavements, there's
the feeling that the bills will get paid. Although no one would
dare say it, there’s even the hint that “we're doing all right,”
and at the appropriate time, proper attention is called to the fact
that alumni pitched in about $875,000 last year, or about $410
per student. (That's better than the Davidsons, the Hampden-
Sydneys, Johns Hopkins and Dukes, mind you, according to Mr.
Parsons encyclopedia.)

So much for “the bottom line.” Elsewhere, there is a
deceptive sense of deja vu about the recitation of town vs.
fraternity spats (now it’s about Wednesday night parties), the
lack of student support for the athletic programs (everything but
lacrosse), and the worries over whether the undergraduates and
law students are living in different worlds (apparently, they are).

That’s that. We’ve heard it all before, right? And it’s off to
the College Inn for a pizza and a beer. Wrong. The College Inn
is closed, for one thing. Lexington is being restored these days,
you know. And we haven't really heard it all before. In fact,
there’s some new and very exciting thinking going on at
Washington and Lee, and that’s what ivory towers are all about.

There’s a faculty participating in the process of building what
Bob Huntley called “the makings of an educated mind,” and
there are some bright, irreverent spirits among them. There is a

“Unapologetically,
Washington and Lee
still seems wedded
to the impertinent
notion that the
pursuit of
excellence is a

self-justifying
enterprise.

PHIL GROSE

young woman named Pam Simpson who thinks there is
artificiality and distorted atmosphere to an all-male student
body, and one wonders if Robert E. Lee would have
reprimanded her for lack of orthodoxy or rewarded her
rebellion and boldness. “Uncas” McThenia, who used to party
with the best of them, thinks students should pay a price for
intemperate Wednesday night revelling by enduring Thursday
morning testing. Sidney Coulling reminds us that there should
be a mission in what we do, that there should be a separation
between the culture and the anarchy.

There’s still that nagging, anachronistic idea of honor kicking
around, also. It seems to have survived depressions, recession,
thermal inversions and the closing of the Kappa Sigma house.
Now it’s under attack from the “due process” lobby, who might
have us believe in “death before dishonor, pending appeal to a
higher court.”

There’s something else that Bob Huntley said during those
three chilly days in October. He conceded that Washington and
Lee does operate on the assumption that “most people trust
most other people.”

“If the rest of the world doesn't trust itself,” he said, “that’s
no reason for us to do likewise.

“In fact, that may be the reason for us to continue as we do.”

So it is in the ivory tower these days. Business as usual.

Philip G. Grose Jr. is director of the South Carolina State
Reorganization Commission. He lives in Columbia.

by Chester F. Burgess III, ‘74

Stability and change might appear mutually exclusive, except
to those alumni of Washington and Lee who return to the
campus after spending several years away from Lexington.

4

There have been many changes since my class, the Class of
1974, departed for the great world outside and, yet, in many
ways, nothing has changed.

The developed portion of the campus has expanded by the
tens of acres and the millions of dollars. The law school’s new

quarters in Lewis Hall are magnificent, and the Woods Creek
Apartments a much-needed addition to the area’s housing pool.
The new library is impressive and its atmosphere much more
inviting than the cramped quarters in old McCormick.

On the other hand, though the faces have certainly changed,
the character of the students appears much the same as five
years ago. Perhaps a few of the current students are a bit more
career-oriented than were some of my classmates, but the
feeling or “vibrations” of the classrooms, hallways, library and
student center are the same.

The faculty hasn’t changed much either. There are a few new
faces, some of them female, but the concerns of the faculty for
the University’s liberal arts tradition is intact. Surprisingly,
though all of the faculty with whom I spoke seem committed to
the University’s liberal arts tradition, most of them are
concerned that Washington and Lee is losing its sense of
community and its common purpose—a sense and purpose
which they date to the arrival of Dr. James Graham Leyburn.

 

The cause of this alleged loss of purpose is the explosion of
knowledge, and the resulting fragmentation of life and of the
curriculum, in the view of many faculty members. One phrased
the question, “What's the soul of the university?” Another
lamented the lack of any great amount of interest in rushing to
answer that question, and said maybe the question is so difficult
it’s being avoided.

I was surprised at the concern on the part of so many faculty
members, since all of them appeared to be in agreement on the
basic goals of the University. Perhaps the reason there’s no great
ferment is that there is such widespread agreement that the
issue is considered long since settled.

The philosophy of Washington and Lee is evident not only in
the faculty and student body, but in the very bricks and mortar of
the physical plant. The new University Library is a prime
example of the Washington and Lee philosophy at work. Rather
than raising a masoleum for the virtual burial of row upon row of
dusty volumes, the University has built a structure designed to

facilitate the learning process. And the number of study carrels,
the lounges, conference rooms, carpeting and windows in the
stacks indicate a lot of planning went into the design to make the
entire building an inviting place for students to pursue the
acquisition of “an educated mind.”

In sum, the University appears to be in fine shape, although
there are clearly challenges to face, now and during the next few
years. The endowment is clearly inadequate to ensure the
financial security to which we have become accustomed, but the
administration is already taking action to enlarge the
endowment.

Washington and Lee and all other institutions of higher
education face a gradual shrinking of the applicant pool during
the next five years, as the tail end of the World War II baby
boom is now passing high school age. Again, the admissions staff
has already begun taking action to solidify the University’s
recruiting efforts in areas where it is generally well-known, and
to expand recruiting into schools and cities from which W&L has

“The philosophy of
Washington and Lee
is evident not

only in the faculty
and student body,
but in the very
bricks and mortar
of the physical
plant.”

CHET BURGESS

drawn few or no students in the past.

During the concluding session of the Special Alumni
Conference, President Huntley brushed aside all thoughts of the
University's ever bending to growing pressure to “prepare
students for jobs,” or to inflate grades to help graduates compete
for slots in graduate schools. In his opinion, “graduates of W&L
will succeed, if they take from here the makings of an educated
mind.” During another portion of the conference, a faculty
member, surveying the assembled alumni and noting the
doctors, lawyers, judges and corporate officers present,
remarked that they “certainly are not an impoverished lot.” If
success can be measured by financial accomplishment,
professional achievement and intellectual development, then the
Washington and Lee philosophy appears as valid as ever, and is
definitely alive and well on the hill.

Chester F. Burgess III is an anchorman and producer for
WTAR-TV News in Norfolk. He lives in Virginia Beach.

 

Lee Associates on Campus
Guests of the Board of Trustees

Since its establishment in 1967, the Robert E. Lee
Associates—composed of alumni, parents and friends of the
University—has occupied a most vital place in W&L’s
educational and development programs. This fellowship has
provided a valuable focus of leadership in a busy decade and,
with membership currently at 585, signs augur well for the
future of the group.

Nearly 200 of these generous supporters, their spouses and
guests, travelled from across the country to the University
campus for the annual Lee Associates banquet, held Friday,
Oct. 26. Hosts were members of the W&L Board of Trustees, on
campus for their fall business meeting.

Beginning with cocktails at the historic Lee House, then
moving to dinner at Evans Dining Hall, the evening was filled
with high spirits—as reflected in the photographs on these

pages.

 

James P. Morefield, ‘52L, with Judge A. Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L,
University trustee, and Mrs. Compton.

 

Robert C. Dyer, '34, and Everett Tucker Jr., '34, chairman of the
Robert E. Lee Associates.

6

Stuard Wurzburger, 28, and Richard Scruggs, parent, former chairman
of the Lee Associates.

Photographs by Sally Mann

 

Trustee Emeritus John M. Stemmons, ’31, and old friend Trustee Jack Trustee Joseph T. Lykes Jr., ’41, and James Bland Martin, ’31L,
W. Warner, ’41. husband of Trustee Teen Martin.

 

Evelyn Huntley, wife of the President, with Dr. Homer Gamble, ’70, A. Lea Booth, ‘40, of the Virginia Foundation for Independent Colleges,
at Lee House reception. with Rector Emeritus John Newton Thomas, ’24.

 

Trustee Sydney Lewis, '40, a principal benefactor of WLL, with Albert W..Moss, °35, in conversation at reception with Trustee
Alvin Huss, parent. Robert W. Swinarton, ’50.

 

I. N. Smith Jr.
Is Elected

To the Board
Of Trustees

Isaac Noyes Smith Jr., a Charles-
ton, W.Va., banking executive, has
been elected to a six-year term on the
Washington and Lee Board of Trus-
tees.

Smith is executive vice president
of Kanawha Banking & Trust Co. of
Charleston. He is a 1957 B.A. and 1960
law graduate who was co-captain of
the W&L football team in his senior
year.

He is a native of Charleston and
attended Mercersburg Academy and
Charleston High School. After gradu-
tion from W&Ls law school, he join-
ed Kanawha Banking as an assistant
trust officer. He became trust officer
two years later, vice president in 1965,
senior vice president in 1973 and exe-
cutive vice president with responsi-
bility for loan administration in 1978.

He undertook graduate study in
trusts at Northwestern University in
1962 and in banking at Rutgers in
1972.

After his initial term on the W&L
Board, Smith will be eligible for elec-
tion to one additional six-year term.

 

He is a member of the West Vir-
ginia Bar and State Bar Associations
and is an elder of the Kanawha United
Presbyterian Church.

His other business affiliations in-
clude the presidencies of Kanawha
City Co., West Virginia Land Co., and
Kanawha Co. He is also secretary and
treasurer of Roxlana Land Co.

 

 

J. T. Lykes Jr.
Retires,

Is Named
Trustee
Emeritus

Joseph T. Lykes Jr., °41, displays
silver tray engraved with the signa-
tures of his fellow members of the
W&L Board of Trustees, which he re-
ceived from President Huntley at the
annual black-tie banquet of the R. E.
Lee Associates in October. Lykes
retires from the W&L board at the
end of 1979. He was elected a trustee
in 1964—succeeding his father, the
late J. T. Lykes Sr., 09, a board mem-
ber for 23 years. The retiring trustee
is board chairman of Lykes Bros.
Steamship Co. of New Orleans, a sub-

 

sidiary of LTV Corp. In a resolution
electing him Trustee Emeritus, the
board declared “There simply aren't
any trustees who met the respon-
sibilities of office better than Joe
Lykes . . . [his] service to the Uni-
versity and its board is a record of
what effective trusteeship should and
can be. .. . Joe brought to our
deliberations his sharp appreciation of
the wry comment, his unique ability
to disarm faulty logic or shaky
premise, often with a characteristic
smile and twinkle of eye.”

 

 

1929 Memorial Scholarship

At Its Reunion, the Class Increases Its Annual Gift, Then Raises a $50,000 Fund

The Class of 1929 at the celebration of
its 50th anniversary last May established a
$50,000 Scholarship Fund in memory of
the class. This fund was in addition to the
class’s extra gifts to the Annual Fund
during its reunion year.

The idea of the Class Memorial
Scholarship was developed by Adrian
McCardell of Baltimore one week before
the reunion on campus. With the
encouragement of George Lanier of New
York and Henry Johnston of Birmingham
the plan moved forward. At the reunion
dinner, pledges of more than $50,000 were
presented to President Huntley. Since that
time, the fund has increased to $55,000,
and members of the class are being
encouraged to make additional
contributions to the 29 Scholarship Fund.

“University officials have stressed,”
McCardell said, “that gifts to the Annual
Fund are the most important ingrédient in
support of the budget for current
operations. Therefore, one of the most

 

helpful and satisfying things a class can do
is to increase its annual gift during its
reunion year. The Class of 1929 not only
made a substantial increase in its Annual
Fund gift but also created the Scholarship
Fund.”

Thirty-four members of the class have
contributed to the Scholarship Fund:

$5,000 or more

Henry P. Johnston
David S. Jones

George H. Lanier Jr.
Adrian L. McCardell Jr.
Lawrence L. McCarthy
Lewis F. Powell Jr.
Walter H. Wilcox

$1,000 - $4,999
William F. Chandler
Benjamin C. Eastwood
George H. Goodwin
Robert B. Lee

Allen B. Morgan

Edward H. Ould
Robert W. Pharr
Irwin T. Sanders
Arthur D. Simmons

Other

Charles V. Amole
Alfred Boyd Jr.
Richard D. Carver
Royal B. Embree Jr.
Earl A. Fitzpatrick
Harry B. Fozzard

E. Lee Gamble

Harry E. Godwin

A. M. Janney
Benjamin P. Knight Jr.
Graham N. Lowdon
William A. MacDonough
Walter Nelson Pharr
James J. Salinger
William G. Sargent

O. Norris Smith
Robert H. Williams
Thomas Perrin Wright

 

Members of the Class of 1929 returning for their 50th reunion were (seated left to right) Benjamin C. Eastwood, Irwin T. Sanders, Alfred Boyd Jr., Robert B.
Lee, Adrian L. McCardell, Earl A. Fitzpatrick, Dave S. Jones, Harry B. Fozzard, Benjamin P. Knight Jr., Royal B. Embree; (standing) John B. Towill, E.
Ballou Bagby, Robert W. Pharr, O. Norris Smith, Arthur D. Simmons, Richard D. Carver, William G. Sargent, William F. Chandler, T. Graham Gibson,
Edward H. Ould, William A. McDonough and Henry P. Johnston.

9

by M. Gray Coleman, ’79

Assistant Director of Publications

The New Treasurer
Stewart Epley Is Again Enjoying “That Wonderful Sense of Belonging to W&L’

“One of the biggest thrills I have ever
experienced occurred in early July. I was
working late, and the janitors had already
locked up Washington Hall when it was
time for me to leave the building. Without
thinking, I walked outside and turned to
lock up the building again, when I
suddenly realized that I was using my own
key to the oldest structure on campus. It
was almost thirty years to the day after I
received my diploma from W&L, and it
only took this single, everyday action to
bring back that wonderful sense of
belonging to W&L, of returning home
again... .”

The speaker smiles, relaxes in his
chair, and adds, “Of course, I kept my
hand in during the intervening years.”
Indeed he did—Emmett Stewart Epley,
graduate of the Class of 1949 and
Washington and Lee’s new treasurer come
Jan. 1, continues to embrace the
University with a zest that hasn’t
diminished with time.

The years between his graduation and
return to the campus this summer were
hectic—‘I call it a rich and varied career:
others might say I sure have jumped
around a lot,” Epley says. Beginning with
a position in an overseas oil company in
the Philippines, moving through Wall
Street, American Can Co., a mining
company, Price Waterhouse & Co., and a
couple of management consulting firms,
Stew Epley’s experience in the world of
business is enormously wide. In 1972, he
moved to upstate New York, and spent
five years with the New York State
Dormitory Authority, an agency which
issues bonds—several billions of dollars’
worth before Epley ever arrived, and
more after—and uses the proceeds to build
residential and academic facilities for
public and independent colleges in the
state. “So the official name is a misnomer,”
he notes. “In my time there, we financed
everything from libraries to hospitals.”
During most of these years, his chief
helpmate was wife Nancy, now an equally
enthusiastic supporter of W&L.

It was then that his alma mater first bid
for Epley’s professional expertise. In 1977,
he took his first step into the W&L
administrative community as the

10

E. Stewart Epley on the job in Washington Hall

development associate for the northeast,
one of five regional associates. And then
this year, “to my complete and utter
surprise, Bob Huntley asked if I would
like to move to Lexington and become the
University treasurer. It took Nancy and
me about 10 seconds to make the
decision—and here we are.” Epley is
currently the assistant to Treasurer James
W. Whitehead, who will devote all his
energies after Jan. 1 to his other positions
as secretary to the W&L Board of Trustees
and director of the many University art
collections.

Born in Great Falls, Mont., in 1924,
Epley postponed his college career at the
outbreak of World War II. He says that
“one thing about the Air Force is that it
convinced this scion of the Rockies that it
was necessary to go away to college and
get out of Montana. ” Just before the close
of the war, an advertisement appeared in
Yank, the Army magazine, offering free
information on colleges to the soon-to-be
vets. “I wrote them,” Epley recalled, “and
asked for a list of 10 good business schools
from all parts of the U.S., and W&L was
included, along with such schools as
Wharton at Pennsylvania.”

Epley takes issue with the assertion

 

that the returning veterans—suddenly
back in a collegiate environment—were
the cause of riotious times on campuses
across the country, including W&L.
“Remember, we had lost three to four
years of our lives,” he noted, “and as a
result, I think we were actually more
serious about our classes. No one in our
position could afford to waste time.”

W&L in the late 1940s lacked many of
the facilities today’s students take for
granted—Lewis Hall, Evans Dining Hall
and the Student Center, Parmly and
duPont Halls, the new freshman
dormitories, Warner Athletic Center, and
the new undergraduate library—but young
Stew Epley found it “very exciting for
several reasons. I knew very little about
the world, and W&L really was my first
glimpse of an intellectual community. Dr.
James Leyburn (professor of sociology and
dean of the University until 1955) came to
the campus shortly after I arrived, and
helped to push the University into the
modern era. I can still remember the stir
when Leyburn suggested that all freshmen
eat together in the dining hall, rather than
dining at their fraternities,” Epley
chuckled.

Another decisive influence upon Epley

the student was Almand Coleman, who
was professor of accounting from 1939 to
1954—and who has also returned as a
distinguished lecturer in accounting for
1979-80. “I guess if I ever had a mentor, it
was Prof. Coleman,” said Epley. “While
Leyburn’s secret of success was his total
composure in the face of any situation,
Coleman got his results by ‘ripping them
apart. He taught me a most important
lesson; you don’t have to accept something
without question simply because it’s
written in a book. I can still picture him on
the teachers’ podium, tearing foolishly
written passages out of the textbooks,
urging us always to think independently.”

The years were full for Epley, and his
anecdotes from the period sparkle in the
telling: :

On fraternity conduct: “You know,
playing football in the living room is not as
new as some of the anti-fraternity
spokesmen think it is. We even used our
housemother as the referee. But the
difference may be that we always put the
furniture back in place. Fraternity men
today need to be more aware of all those
eyes on them.”

On relations between W&L and
V.M.I.: “Things certainly seem more
cordial now. I can still remember when
my fraternity—Beta Theta Pi—and others
would move their cannons, and be
awakened by angry cadets in the middle of
a frozen night. Even the housemother was
marched out, and off we'd go to return the
cannon to its proper place.”

On the 1948 Mock Republican
Convention: “Just remembering it makes
my mouth water for the one in 1980. I was
the Montana state chairman in 1948, and I
believe my greatest contribution was to
march a herd of sheep down Main Street
in the parade. Good thing they didn’t
escape—we borrowed them from the dean
of the Law School.”

He even has a few words to say about
dating: “Let me hasten to point out to you
younger guys that we went down the road,
too.”

For many W&L students, the use of
the term “commencement” for
graduation—often the end of one’s direct
involvement with the University—seems

 

 

 

 

 

A caricature of “Ep” executed during his
senior year.

Epley in a snapshot made on the day he
received his Phi Beta Kappa key

rather anomalous. Not so with Epley;
graduation in 1949 merely signaled the
beginning of a different kind of service.
Starting in the mid-1950s, when he was a
regional Alumni Fund agent in New York,
Epley was rarely without some sort of
volunteer duty for the school. He was the
president of the New York City Alumni
Chapter for several terms. He followed
that with the chairmanship of the New
York area for the 1958-59 capital fund
campaign that raised $3 million necessary
for the construction of Parmly Hall. From
there, Epley moved onto the Alumni
Board of Directors (significantly, this was
when the Alumni House was first
established). He reached another

 

important milestone when he sat on the
steering committee which organized the
Lee Associates in the late 1960s. And in
1974, he assumed the duties of class
agent—a volunteer task which, in spite of
his growing official duties, he has no
intention of giving up.

In fact, Epley seems to relish all the
responsibilities that fall upon the
treasurer—trom the business office to
buildings and grounds maintenance, from
food services to the book and supply
stores. “Easy informality is the key to the
University administration’s smooth
progress, he notes, “and it really makes
my job a pleasure. There is a conspicuous
absence of rigid rule-making here—
perhaps carried over from the student
Honor System, which places a great deal of
responsibility on the individual. And for
someone who has spent so many years in a
world of forms-in-triplicate, W&L is one
great system, believe me.”

He may be one of the new kids on the
administration's block, but Epley is rapidly
becoming one of the better-known faces on
the campus. He has made it a point to
immerse himself in the W&L “lifestyle,”
from attendance at this year’s freshman
orientation at Natural Bridge, to an
examination of printing styles in the W&L
printing and copy center. Speaking of
Natural Bridge—alumni readers who
haven't been able to watch the student
Executive Committee or the Honor
System up close for some time, may be
interested in Epley’s thoughts after
hearing the speeches at Freshman Camp.
As he puts it, “I was struck by those
student voices simply ringing with
enthusiasm—very heartening. I never
really doubted the Honor System’s
continuance, but it’s nice to be reassured
so strongly.”

As he sees it, the Honor System is
centered upon the concept of
“responsibility,” that each individual has it
on his own shoulders to benefit the
campus. He has carried this philosophy for
30 years as an alumnus of the University.
And now, one cannot help but feel grateful
that Stew Epley is readying his proverbial
shoulders for yet another responsibility at
Washington and Lee.

11

Gazette

University Again Has Paintings Exhibited at the National Portrait Gallery

Two 18th-century portraits owned by
W&L are among 36 paintings being
exhibited at the National Portrait Gallery,
Washington, D.C., through Jan. 6, and
one of them is reproduced in color on the
cover of the exhibition catalogue.

The exhibition is “Robert Edge Pine: A
British Portrait Painter in America, 1784-
88.”

The catalogue-cover illustration is of
W&L's portrait of George Washington

Parke Custis, who was known as “Washie,”

the adopted stepson of George Washington
and father of Mrs. Robert E. Lee.

The other portrait in the National
Portrait Gallery's Pine exhibition—the first
comprehensive showing of the artist’s
works—is of “Washie’s” sister, Elizabeth
Parke Custis.

Both W&L’s Pine portraits are from
the Washington/Custis/Lee Collection of
18th- and early-19th-century paintings,
most of which were owned originally by
George and Martha Washington, passed
down to Mrs. Lee, and donated to W&L
in 1913 by her and Gen. Lee’s son G. W.
Custis Lee.

The portraits of “Washie” and
Elizabeth Parke Custis have been on loan
in recent years to Mount Vernon, where
they originally hung during Washington’s
lifetime. Both were also included in a
Bicentennial exhibition of W&L-owned
portraits, organized by International
Exhibitions Foundation of Washington,
which took 17 of Washington and Lee’s
most historically important portraits on a
two-year tour of museums and galleries in
10 states.

Robert Edge Pine came to America in
1784 intending to paint large historical
pictures of the American Revolution. He
found little support for that plan, however,
and earned his living instead by painting
portraits—many of which, as with the two
in W&L’s collection, consisted of heads
applied to pre-painted bodies.

The Pine exhibition marks the third
time portraits from the University’s
collection have been featured in National
Portrait Gallery exhibitions.

The famed painting of Lafayette by
Charles Willson Peale, painted in 1779 on
commission from George Washington, was

12

_ _.

 

WUL's portrait of “Washie” graces poster promoting Pine exhibition.

lent to the gallery 30 years ago when it the “theme” picture for the Portrait
opened. Gallery’s inaugural Bicentennial
In 1974, the Peale portrait of exhibition, “In the Minds and Hearts of

Washington himself, painted in 1772 and The People,” and was reproduced on the
the first of Washington made from life, was _ gallery’s poster promoting the exhibition.

1980 Fancy Dress Ball
barred to alumni

The W&L Student Activities Board
voted in October to admit only students,
faculty, and staff to the annual Fancy
Dress Ball in February, according to the
Ring-tum Phi.

The S.A.B. decision came after 5,000
people, by its count, attended last year’s
ball. The Early-Fielding University
Center, site of the extravaganza since its
revival in 1974, has a maximum capacity of
2,139 people, according to fire regulations.
In fact, fear of a fire during the ball was
the major reason for the decision to limit
the attendance, the student group said.

As the organization in charge of the
bulk of student entertainment, the S.A.B.
first voted Sept. 23 to move the loéation of
the ball to Doremus Gymnasium, which
housed the event for some three-scgre
years, until the late 1960s. But that
decision was reversed after board
members began to examine logistical
problems that would arise if the event
were moved.

In recent years, Fancy Dress has lost
its “masquerade ball” connotation, and has
become a carnival midway of sorts—still a
formal dance with a big-band sound, but
with the addition of a number of
supplementary acts, from magicians to jazz
pianists. Doremus Gym, with one large
area and only one other small room, would
be difficult to adapt to the new
entertainment system, S.A.B. officials
said.

Last year, 600 to 650 alumni attended
Fancy Dress with their dates or wives. As
a result of the recent decision, however,
only one ticket per student (undergraduate
and law) will be printed. A student
planning not to attend the ball may sell his
invitation to whomever he pleases, the
Ring-tum Phi reported.

News of the faculty

[] Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor of
history, is the editor of the diary of a
leading 19th-century Rockbridge County

Isabel Mcllvain, sculptor-in-residence

 

Dr. Philip Cline, economist

politician, businessman and “scientific
farmer,’ Henry Boswell Jones of
Brownsburg. The 115-page book covers
the years 1842 to 1871 and was published
by McClure Press. Jones’ diary, to which
Dr. Turner has added 483 explanatory
notes, presents a remarkable series of
insights into social and political life in the
area in mid-century. The volume—seventh

 

 

in a series of books on local history written
or edited by Dr. Turner—is available from
the W&L Bookstore at $7 postpaid.

[] A new report published by the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, of which Dr.
Philip Cline, assistant economics
professor, was a joint author, predicts that
a 7 percent real increase in support for
agricultural research and extension will be
required if there is to be a growth rate of
1.3 percent in agricultural productivity
through the end of the century. The report
is Prospects for Productivity Growth, and
was written by Dr. Cline and two
economists in the Agriculture
Department's Economics, Statistics and
Cooperative Service. Among the
researchers conclusions is that growth in
productivity could be significantly
increased by technological advances which
will allow artificial stimulation of the
photosynthesis process and “twinning” or
development of ways to increase the
numbers of multiple births in beef cattle.

[] Isabel Mcllvain, W&L’s sculptor-in-
residence, was one of 12 artists
represented this fall in a major show, “The

13

EG cazette

Figure in Sculpture,” organized by the
Virginia Museum’s Institute of
Contemporary Arts. She created four of
her characteristically ultra-realistic half-
size human figures for the exhibition. The
Institute of Contemporary Art, according
to Virginia Museum Director Peter Mooz,
is devoted to “examples of the highest
quality [and] innovative ideas, thoughts
and approaches.” Ms. Mcllvain’s
sculptures have been exhibited widely in
one-woman and group shows and are
included in numerous public and private
collections.

L] Two articles by Dr. S. Todd Lowry,
professor of economics, have been
included in a new anthology, The Economy

as a System of Power. One traces the
efforts of Lord Mansfield, “father of

commercial law,” to incorporate the
customs of English merchants into the
British system of common law in the mid-
18th century. The other essay by Lowry
surveys the literature of bargain and
contract theory in law and economics.

L] David B. Dickens, associate
professor of German, delivered a paper in
October on “The Concept of Humor in the
Work of Kurt Kusenberg,” a contemporary
German editor, author and art historian, at
the Mountain International Foreign
Languages Conference at West Virginia
State College.

[] James Boatwright, editor of
Shenandoah, the award-winning literary
review published by the English
department, delivered an address on “The

Creative Manuscript” at a joint meeting in
November of the South Atlantic Modern
Language Association and the Conference
of Editors of Learned Journals.

aoe
Goldwater will keynote
°80 Mock Convention

Barry Goldwater, four-term Senate
veteran, 1964 Republican Presidential
candidate, and patriarch of the Grand Old
Party, will deliver the keynote address at
the W&L student body’s 1980 Mock
Republican Convention next May 10.

The students will make their 17th
effort to predict the nominee of the out-of-
power party, in what has become uni-
versally regarded as the most accurate

 

 

Intercepted Correspondence

Interoftice memo

To: M. Graham Coleman, Assistant Di-
rector of Publications
From: R. S. Keefe, Director of the
News Office

Thanks for sharing with me the
necrology from The Star and Lamp of Pi
Kappa Phi, in which is recorded the
transition of Mr. James Bland Martin from
Chapter Temporal to Chapter Eternal.

As you know, the late Martin was the
husband of one of Washington and Lee’s
trustees, and I have spent several days in
past weeks trafficking with Mrs. Martin
and someone (now exposed by Star and
Lamp as an obvious fraud) whom she
openly represented as her Jimmie. The
impostor not only failed to tell me he is
dead but in fact left a most convincing
impression to the contrary. The news in
Star and Lamp, thus, casts an exceedingly
awkward light on the assertion in my ar-
ticle in the September issue of our alumni
magazine that Jimmie Martin and Teen
Martin are the life of any party they
attend.

This poses a considerable problem for
me. Who has been sending me those let-

 

ters on his stationery? Who has been giv-
ing Washington and Lee all this money?
And what kind of parties will I get invited
to any more?

JAMES BLAND MARTIN
GLOUCESTER, VIRGINIA

Dear Colonel:

I do appreciate your trumpet blast of
recent date advising me of my departure
from this temporal abode to rest in Abra-
ham’s bosom (sort of lumpy, too, I su-
spect).

As a matter of fact, I have been some-
what suspicious of this for some time and
thought perhaps I had just overlooked
lying down. Now that I know, I suppose
my mind should be at rest too, but I find
that this is not entirely so. I’m terribly
afraid Jim Whitehead may learn of this
and forthwith move to have our Unitrust
proceeds directed to Lexington, leaving
your trustee and this Heavenly Spirit in a
destitute condition.

Neither would I care to have the
I.R.S. alerted to my departure. When I
begin to consider the many things this

angelic state (I hope) could trigger, I
begin to feel sorta puny. Maybe that goes
with the territory.

I can't wait to see you in heaven to
chat a bit, play a few harp melodies, eat a
little honey and drink a little milk. Hea-
vens! What am I saying? I never did care
for milk.

Hallelujah!—and cross yourself.

St. James

THE PI KAPPA PHI FRATERNITY
ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICE
To: J. B. Martin; c.c. to M. G. Coleman,
R. S. Keefe

. .. Please accept our sincere apologies
for a recent misprint in the summer issue
of our magazine publication, The Star &
Lamp. Your name, with the list of all Gol-
den Legion honored members, appeared
erroneously as a list of our brothers who
had joined Chapter Eternal, and those
who actually had been deceased were
listed as Golden Legion members. . . . A
clarifying statement will appear in the
Fall issue of Star & Lamp.

Durward W. Owen
Executive Director

 

 

14

and realistic college mock convention of
all.

Neither Washington and Lee nor the
Mock Convention will be new to
Goldwater. The connection began in 1964,
when students correctly predicted that the
Arizonan would beat William Scranton,
Richard Nixon, Henry Cabot Lodge, and
Nelson Rockefeller for the party nod. After
his nomination by W&L—which came
long before it was apparent in the nation
that he would indeed capture the real
nomination—Goldwater told the Mock
Convention delegates by telephone: “I
hope and pray this is a good omen for July
and for November.” He got half his wish.

Goldwater came to the campus in 1968,
prior to that year’s Republican Mock
Convention, to participate in a Contact-
sponsored symposium on the future of the
Republican party. And he returned two
years ago for a Lee Chapel lecture
sponsored by the W&L College |
Republicans. f

First elected to the Senate in 1952,
Goldwater's bid in 1964 for the Oval Office
came at a time of popular sympathy for the
Democratic party and especially for the
legacy of Camelot, and the challenge of
upsetting as powerful an incumbent as
Lyndon Johnson proved to be
insurmountable. As a result, Goldwater
suffered what was then the worst defeat in
Presidential election history, losing by 16
million votes. Still, his Arizona
constituents sent him back to the Senate
with enthusiasm in 1968, and in that
capacity he has remained the grand old
man in the GOP.

As Mock Convention keynoter,
Goldwater joins a distinguished list that
includes Sen. (and former Veep) Alben
Barkley, then-Gov. Jimmy Carter, Harry
S Truman, and the 1976 speaker, Sen.
William Proxmire. By tradition, the W&L
keynote speaker is a prominent leader of
the challenging party but is not an active
candidate for the party's nomination
himself.

The announcement that Goldwater
would be the keynoter was made by the
Mock Convention's co-chairman, Craig
Cornett, Richard H. Schoenfeld and
Sidney S. Simmons II.

 

Sen. Barry Goldwater, keynoter

 

 

 

 

 

Logo of ‘80 Mock Convention

Pledging off a bit

Fraternity pledging among W&L
freshmen dropped slightly this fall, to
about 61 percent of the class, down from
the usual 65 percent, according to figures
compiled by the Dean of Students’ office.
Of the 370 freshmen, 225 joined one or
another of the University’s 16 social
fraternities at the end of rush this year.
Under a new Interfraternity Council
policy, pledging was delayed three weeks,
and some fraternity officers said the new

delay seems to have led freshmen to move
with greater caution in considering
fraternity membership.

W&L senior
wins Rotary

Richard G. Bird Jr., a W&L senior
from Atlanta who is majoring in German,
has been awarded a Rotary Scholarship for
graduate study next year at the University
of Bonn. Bird, captain of the track.and
cross-country teams this year, will study
German party politics.

Phi Eta Sigma
inducts 26

Twenty-six sophomores were initiated
this fall into Phi Eta Sigma, the honor
society that recognizes superlative
academic achievement in the freshman
year. Perhaps the most interesting datum:
Although only 54 percent of the members
of that freshman class were graduates of
public high schools, 70 percent of the Phi
Eta Sigma initiates—18 of the 26—were
public-school men. Membership in Phi
Eta Sigma is earned by earning Honor Roll
status, a grade-point average of 3.5 or
above, in all three terms of the freshman
year.

In the fine arts

[] The University Theatre opened its
1979-80 season in November with a
notable production of Hamlet—described
by director Lee Kahn as “the most
challenging project we ve taken on in more
than 10 years.” Kahn is associate professor
of drama and head of the University
Theatre. Hamlet was his seventh
Shakespearean effort; he said he avoided
the magnum tragedy until now, however,
because he had been “waiting for the right
talent pool.”

Sophomore Grant Kunkowski played
the lead role; other principals included

15

Kurt Kammerer, a senior, as Horatio;
Terry Frankenberger, also a senior, as
Claudius; sophomore Frank Billingsley as
Laertes; another sophomore, Rob Davis,
as Polonius; Betty Kahn (Lee Kahn’s wife)
as Gertrude, and Dr. J. Keith Shillington,
professor of chemistry and noted bit player
in many W&L dramatic efforts, in a

yy

16

 

triumphant return to the stage in the role
of the gravedigger.

Other major productions set by the
University Theatre (formerly the
Troubadours) this year include Butley, the
contemporary British drama; Weeds, an
original stage play written by Thomas J.
Ziegler, assistant drama professor;

 

Silk-screen print of Colonnade by Stephen K. Roberts, ’76

Tennessee Williams’ The Glass Menagerie;
and the musical Pippin.

L] Two W&L graduates, Stephen K.
Roberts, '76, and Drayton N. Smith, ’74,
have had one-man exhibitions of their art
in the W&L Bookstore this fall. Roberts
displayed a new series of silk-screen prints
of the Washington and Lee campus,
executed with bold lines and vivid deep
colors. Smith’s exhibition consisted
primarily of drawings and etchings of the
human figure.

L] W&L saw a different kind of musical
performance from the routine in
November, when a pair of third-year law
students, Jacquelyn Boyden and Philip D.
Calderone, presented a sophisticated
review of American popular music from
ragtime through Gershwin, Porter, Kern,
and Rogers and Hart. Nary a rock or disco
note was heard, and (to the surprise of
more than a few old- and not-so-old-
timers) the standing-room-only crowd,
mostly students, was bowled over by
music some of them had never heard
before. Boyden is an honors graduate of the
University of Michigan, and Calderone
received his undergraduate degree magna
cum laude from Virginia.

 

Drawing by Drayton Smith, ’74

 

as
26 in collegiate
‘Who's Who’

The 1979-80 edition of Who’s Who In
American Colleges and Universities lists 26
students from Washington and Lee—seven
third-year law students, 18 undergraduate
seniors, and one junior:

Stephen H. Abraham, a senior from
Chevy Chase, Md., majoring in politics,
president this year of the student body;
Stewart Atkinson Jr., a senior economics
major from Atlanta, co-captain of the
football team and assistant head dormitory
counselor; Jay J. Blumberg, a senior from
Boonton, N.J., majoring in politics,
organizer of the hugely successful Dance
Marathon for Muscular Dystrophy last
year and senior representative this year on
the Student Executive Committée:

Also, Jacquelyn Kay Boyden, third-
year law student from Grand Rapids,
Mich., a Burks Scholar and former law
school representative to the Student
Executive Committee; Timothy A. Brooks,
a senior from Richmond who is majoring in
politics, chairman of the Student Control
Committee;

Daniel J. Carucci, a senior from Pound
Ridge, N.Y., majoring in both chemistry
and interdepartmental mathematics and
science, head dormitory counselor; David
E.. Constine III, a senior from Richmond
majoring in European history, co-captain
of the tennis team and vice president of his
sophomore and junior classes; Philip Craig
Cornett, a senior from Camp Springs,
Md., majoring in politics and economics,
co-chairman of the 1980 Mock Convention
and vice president of Omicron Delta
Kappa;

Leslie A. Cotter Jr., a senior
economics major from Columbia, S.C..,
student body vice president, student
representative on the Faculty Executive
Committee, and president of his class in
his sophomore and junior years; John J.
Eklund, third-year law student from
Brightwaters, N.Y., lead-article editor for
the We>L Law Review;

Sydney D. F. Farrar, a senior from
Blackstone, Va., majoring in English,
president of the Interfraternity Council

 

and football co-captain; Albert L. Foster
Jr. of Jenkintown, Pa., a senior European
history major, co-chairman of the Student
Recruitment Committee and assistant head
dormitory counselor;

William L. Garrett Jr., third-year law
student from Wilmington, Del., president
of the Student Bar Association; Covert J.
Geary, a senior from New Orleans
majoring in administration, student body
secretary and business manager of the
Ring-tum Phi last year; David H. Harpole
Jr. of Roanoke, a senior chemistry and
biology major, co-chairman this year of the
Student Activities Board:

Llewellyn Hubbard Hedgbeth, a third-
year law student from Salem, Va.,
chairman of the Tucker Law Forum:
Thomas Barnes Henson, a third-year law
student from Ethridge, Tenn., editor-in-
chief of the Law Review; Singleton Dewey
Keesler Jr., a senior from Charlotte
majoring in English and German,
president of Omicron Delta Kappa and
senior-class representative on the Student
Executive Committee;

Robert Sumter Link Jr., a third-year
law student from Floyd, Va., editor of the
law-school newspaper, We>L Law News:

   

 

Paul Fussell (second from left), author of the landmark study The Great War and Modern M emory, chats

Theodore Brelsford Martin Jr., a senior
from Middletown, Ohio, majoring in
French, co-captain of the water polo team
and vice president of his class; William
Henry Matthai Jr., a senior from
Baltimore majoring in chemistry and
biology who is first in his class
academically and an assistant head
dormitory counselor;

Michael Joseph Mrlik II, a senior from
Charleston, S.C., majoring in East Asian
studies, senior justice of the Interfraternity
Council and a member of the football,
lacrosse and track teams; Randolph P.
Smith, a senior from Washington, D.C.,
majoring in journalism, editor-in-chief of
the Ring-tum Phi;

Charles V. Terry, a senior from
Portsmouth, Va., majoring in biology, vice
president of the Interfraternity Council
and co-chairman of the Student
Recruitment Committee; Daniel E.
Westbrook, a third-year law student from
Richmond, Ind., Burks Scholar and
International Moot Court Team Member:
and Robert Harold Willis Jr., a junior from
St. Petersburg majoring in English and
mathematics, representative last year and
this on the Student Executive Committee.

  

with students and faculty at Skylark, W&L’s mountaintop conference center along the Blue Ridge
Parkway. Fussell was Washington and Lee’s 1979 Phi Beta Kappa visiting scholar, and part of his two-day
visit was spent at Skylark with English majors and teachers for formal and informal discussions. Great
War won the 1976 National Book Award and the Phi Beta Kappa Ralph Waldo Emerson Award. Fussell
also met with classes at W&L and delivered a public lecture in Lee Chapel. The Skylark retreat marked
one of the first uses of the 365-acre facility for academic meetings.

17

 

18

 

SHRINE, °
THE hoa oe

EL eMeE ah tk rr

 

by Rupert N. Latture, °15

Special Assistant to the President

On the Walls
And in the Foyer
of Lee Chapel

Visitors Know Something

About Lee and Maybe Jackson,

But What Are the Stories
Behind All Those Tablets?

 

Thousands of visitors pass through Lee
Chapel on the Washington and Lee
campus each year. Eager school children
arrive in their yellow buses. Older
sightseers come in chartered buses,
campers, and other assorted types of
vehicles, and in quite a variety of wearing
apparel. Some of the visitors are well
informed about General Lee and General
Jackson. They understand the saying that
“The heart of the South beats in
Lexington.” Others ask which side of the
war General Lee was on, or what was the
size of General Lee’s shoes, or how many
miles General Lee rode on Traveller
during the war.

 

Many of the visitors take an interest in
the plaques on the walls of the Chapel.
They read the inscriptions and ask
questions about them. People are
surprised at the number of plaques that
record the drowning of students in North
River, now called the Maury River. The
earliest death recorded on the Chapel
walls was that of William Clarence Lynch
of Leesburg, Va. He was in his senior year
at the College and lost his life in an effort
to rescue a fellow student. This tragic
accident occurred on Christmas Day,
1878, when Lynch and other students
were skating on the river.

A large brass plaque states that
Livingston Waddell Houston of Lexington,

 

 

 

 

R CHIMES AND CLOCK

  

Va., was drowned in North River on Aug.
2, 1886. Below this plaque is another
which says that the Westminster chimes
and clock in Lee Chapel were given in
memory of Houston in 1948 by his friend
and brother-in-law, Leslie Lyle oe
of the Class of 1887.

Another victim of drowning ak Lee

 

M. Sutton of Kinston, N.C., on May 25,
1908. The plaque was erected in his
memory by his fraternity brothers and
states that “in the supreme test he proved
himself.” Paul R. Dunn of Raleigh, N.C.,
was drowned in the same boating accident.
The account of the tragedy in the
Lexington Gazette states at that time that
within the past 20 years six or eight
students and cadets had lost their lives in
the river.

The last drowning victim recorded on
the Chapel walls is that of Rutherford
Roland Hall of Moorefield, W.Va., who
was drowned in North River on the eve of
graduation, May 29, 1921. He was
accompanied by his student friend,
Fitzgerald Flournoy, who tried in vain to
save him.

Henry Hall of Mobile, Ala., died on
Dec. 12, 1902, of typhoid fever. His
fraternity brothers erected a plaque in his
memory, paying tribute to him as athlete,
student, and Christian gentleman.

A plaque of interest is the one which
says that James Markham Marshall Ambler
of Fauquier County, Va., died on the
banks of the Lena River in Siberia in
October 1880. Dr. Ambler was Assistant
Surgeon General of the U.S. Navy and
perished of starvation and exposure as he

TO THE MEMORY oF
RUTHERFORD ROLAND HALL.
_ DROWNED IN NORTH RIVER. MAY 29. 1921
. ON THE EVE OF GRADUATION,
"THis TABLET 18 AFFECTIONATELY DEDICATED
BY THE FACULTY AND HIS FELLOW - STUDENTS.

   

 

 

 

 

   

SO LYCIDAS SUNK Low BUT MOUNTED BEGE,
YRROUCH TRE BEAR MICHT oF HIM THAT WALKED THE WAVES.
WHERE, OTHER GROVES AND OTHER STREAMS ALGSS,
WITH NECTAR PURE HIS OOZY Locks HE LAVES.
AND HEARS THE UNEXPRESSIVE BUPTIAL SONG,
ER TRE BLEsST KINcnoMSs arex OF JOY AND LOVE.

 

returned from a scientific expedition with
Captain DeLong’s company from the
steamer, Jeanette. (There is a monument to
the memory of these men at the United
States Naval Academy at Annapolis.)
Probably the first Washington and Lee
alumnus to die in World War I was Kiffin
Yates Rockwell of Asheville, N.C. He
attended the University during the session
1912-13. He was killed in aerial combat
over Alsace on Sept. 23, 1916. He was a
member of the Lafayette Escadrille of the
French Army. The tablet to his memory

582  Bemeked 12, 1902
; and Lee University 1899-—

h loves a shining mark”

was placed in Lee Chapel by members of
the Sigma Phi Epsilon Fraternity.

The Sigma Society placed a tablet in
memory of Clovis Moomaw of Roanoke,
Va., a 1912 graduate, who was killed in
action in the Meuse-Argonne battle on
Oct. 5, 1918. He had served for three

 

years as professor of law at Washington
and Lee.

On the same tablet it is recorded that
John Arthur Lingle of Paoli, Ind., a law
graduate of 1915, died in the service. He
was a captain of artillery and died of
pneumonia in the American Hospital in

 

Liverpool, England on Oct. 21, 1918.
Robert McCutchan Morrison was an
alumnus of distinction. A plaque in his
memory was placed in 1926 by his friends
and admirers near the steps on the right
leading to the platform. He was born near
Lexington and graduated from Washington
and Lee in 1887. He spent his life as a
Presbyterian missionary in the Belgian
Congo. He attained international
prominence for his courageous action in
exposing the atrocities suffered by the
natives who were compelled by their
Belgian overlords to bring in ivory and
rubber. Dr. Morrison was prosecuted for
his action, but was finally acquitted and
vindicated. Also, he wrote the first

   
  

FFIN YATES ROCKWELL, EX’ 13
: BORN SEPTEMBER 20, [888
UTENANT, LAFAYETTE ESCADRILLE
FRENCH ARMY.
RILLED [8 AERIAL CORSAT OVER
RODERN, ALSACE,
SEPTEMBER 239, [8i6,

  
  

WIS MEMORY A SHRINE (8 SUR REARTS.

SIGMA FRE EPSICER.

grammar and dictionary in the Baluba
dialect and translated passages of Scripture
into the native tongue. He died on March
14, 1918, and was buried at Luebo,
Congo.

On the back wall of the Chapel is a
marker to the memory of three members
of the Campbell family, men who had
rendered long and valued service to
Washington and Lee University. John Lyle
Campbell was professor of chemistry and
geology from 1851 to 1886. His son, also
John Lyle Campbell, served as treasurer of
the University from 1877 to 1913. Another
son, Henry Donald Campbell, was
professor of geology and dean of the

19

 

 

On the Walls
Of Lee Chapel

University from 1906 to 1934. Dr.
Campbell, the father, made a successful
plea to Captain DuPont to spare
Washington Hall during Hunter's raid on
Lexington. (The buildings of Virginia
Military Institute were destroyed by fire.)
The basis of Dr. Campbell’s plea was the
fact that a skillfully carved likeness of
George Washington stood on top of
Washington Hall, the main college
building.

A plaque of much significance
commemorates the address given in the

 

 

PLACED HERE BY
SIGMA
TO THE MEMORY OF
CLOVIS MOOMAW, 1912
FIRST LIEUTENANT, INFANTRY
KILLED IN AC ed

 
  

INGLE JR.1918
CAPTAIN, ARTILLERY
DIED OF PNEUMONIA

  
 

LIVERPOOL, ENGLAND
OCTOBER 21,1918

   

 

 

Chapel on Jan. 19, 1907, by Charles
Francis Adams on the centennial of
General Lee’s birth. Adams was a
distinguished historian and an honored
member of the well-known Adams family
of Massachusetts. He had been an officer
in the Union Army and thus had fought
against General Lee in the war. The tablet
was erected by Southerners in
appreciation of the speaker’s friendship for
the South and for the high tribute he paid
to the life and character of General Lee.
This address and the plaque indicate the
growing spirit of reconciliation between
the North and the South.

On the wall at the end of the front
bench on the left is a small tablet with this
wording: “This marks the place where
General Lee sat during daily Chapel

20

 

worship while he was President of
Washington College.”

Facing visitors as they enter Lee
Chapel is a large tablet which is headed:

“Liberty Hall Volunteers Stonewall
Brigade C S A 1861-1865.”

There were 76 names on the original
roll. Of that number, 13 were killed, 26
were wounded, 9 died in the service,

making the total number of casualties 48
out of the 76. They fought in thirty-two
battles from Manassas to Appomattox. The
names of the Liberty Hall Volunteers are
listed on the tablet.

To the left of the marker referred to
above is a marker stating that Lee Chapel
was declared a National Historic Landmark
by the U.S. Department of Interior in
1961. On the other side of the large tablet

 

is a plaque recognizing a grant of $370,000
from the Ford Motor Company Fund
which provided for the complete
restoration of Lee Chapel. The gift was
made in recognition of the ideals and noble
principles exemplified in the life of Robert
E. Lee. The Chapel was built in 1867
under the supervision of General Lee who
served as President of Washington College
from 1865 to 1870.

 

 

A small metal plaque states that the
iron gates in front of the recumbent statue
were presented to the Chapel on Jan. 19,
1929 by Henry Evans Litchford of Raleigh,
N.C.

A large slate-colored tablet was erected
in 1913 by the Colonial Dames of America
in honor of Robert Alexander and John
Brown, D.D., principals of Augusta

 

Academy and of William Graham,
principal of Augusta Academy and first
Rector of Liberty Hall Academy. Included
in this recognition are the names of 22
members of the first Board of Trustees of
the Academy.

The school for Personnel Services of
the United States Army presented a

 

marker to Washington and Lee to
commemorate the occupation of the
University’s facilities from Dec. 6, 1942,
through Jan. 31, 1946. As many as 1,200
representatives at a time from the Army,
Navy and Marine Corps came to the
Washington and Lee campus for short
periods of training as directors of
recreation, entertainment and orientation
of the military personnel all over the
world.

 

Chapter News

 

PENINSULA—At reception before the seafood buffet are Conway
Sheilds III, ’64, vice president; Douglas M. Thomas, ’74, ’77L,

secretary-treasurer; and Thomas A. Wash, ’51.

PENINSULA. A large and enthusiastic
number of alumni welcomed President and
Mrs. Huntley, along with Dr. and Mrs.
Louis Hodges, at the James River Country
Club on the evening of Sept. 13. A seafood
buffet was preceded by cocktails. Ben
Williams III, ’71, chapter president,
chaired the meeting and expressed a
welcome to the many guests present.
President Huntley delivered a report on
Washington and Lee’s current progress,
and was followed by Dr. Hodges,
professor of religion at W&L, who spoke of
the relatively new and exciting Ethics
Program in law, medicine and journalism
in which W&L is now engaged. The
chapter was pleased to welcome James
Bland Martin, 31, and Mrs. Martin, who
has been a trustee of the University since
1978. Also in attendance were Robert S.

PENINSULA—Talking with President H untley (right) are B. Voss Neal,
51; Frank S. Beazlie Jr., 40; and Thomas A. Wash, ’51.

 

 

Keefe, ‘68, director of the University News
Office, and John Duckworth, ’71,
development staff associate. In the brief
business session, and after calling on the
nominating committee, the following new
officers were elected: Phillip M. Dowding,
‘52, president; Conway H. Sheilds III, ’64,
‘67L, vice president; Douglas M. Thomas,
‘74, 77L, secretary-treasurer.

TIDEWATER. President and Mrs.
Huntley and Dr. and Mrs. Louis Hodges
were honored guests of the chapter at a
dinner meeting on Friday evening,

Sept. 14, at the Original Cavalier Hotel.
Following a cocktail hour, dinner was
served to a large number of alumni and
parents of current students. William P.
Ballard, 73, president of the chapter,
together with his committee, had made

 

 

TIDEWATER—During cocktail hour before dinner Evelyn Huntley, wife
of the President, talks with Peter Agelasto III, 62, and his wife, Betsey.

 

TIDEWATER—Dr. Louis Hodges, professor of religion, exchanges
stories with Mrs. James B. Martin, trustee.

the splendid arrangements and served as
master of ceremonies for the occasion. He
expressed a warm welcome to those in
attendance—especially to Mrs. Eldridge
Whitehurst, mother of Mrs. Huntley. Also
attending were James Bland Martin, 31L,
of Gloucester, his wife, a University
trustee, “Teen” Martin, and development
staff associate John Duckworth, 71. Both
Huntley and Hodges were guests of
Richard Burroughs, ’68, and several other
alumni for a dove hunt the following day—
at which each participant got his full limit
of game.

MIDDLE TENNESSEE. The chapter
held its late summer party on Friday,
Sept. 14, at the home of John G. Russell
Jr., 59, and Mrs. Russell. Chapter
president Ben Gambill, 67, alumni board

21

Chapter News

     

this

MIDDLE

 

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—At reception are John Reynolds, 68; his wife,
Janis; Kelly Lish, °72; Terry Smith; and Martha Binkley, ’75L.

director James F. Gallivan, ‘51, and Mrs.
Gallivan helped greet guests while chapter
secretary Clay Jackson, '76, set up the bar
and filled in for a tardy bartender. A
delicious buffet complemented cocktails
and conversation. Guests. of the chapter
included development staff associate
Milburn Noell, 51, and Mrs. Noell from
Memphis, and assistant alumni secretary
Buddy Atkins, ‘68.

LOUISVILLE. A large number of
alumni and University friends gathered for
the chapter's cocktail party and dinner at
the Pendennis Club on Tuesday evening,
Oct. 9 to welcome President Robert E.

R. Huntley. The affair was arranged by
chapter president Charles W. Dobbins Jr.,
‘70. Among the guests was John Hollister,
58, development staff associate from

22

TENNESSEE—At the chapter's late summer party are John
Russell, 59, host; Chuck Dunn, ’73, and his wife.

ee

 

LOUISVILLE—At reception are William E. Whaley Jr., ‘40; Fielden

Woodward, 37, '39L; Mrs. Whaley; William R. Cory, ’43; and E.

Neal Cory, 77.

Atlanta. Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn,
‘40, spoke briefly and introduced President
Huntley, who spoke about the unique
educational opportunities offered at
Washington and Lee. Both Huntley and
Washburn were honored by the chapter
when presented with a certificate of
appointment as “Kentucky colonels” by
Corky Briscoe, 59. In the business session
which concluded the evening, Dobbins
announced plans for another chapter
meeting in January 1980 in honor of
General Robert E. Lee’s birthday.

EASTERN KENTUCKY. The
inauguration and installation ceremonies
for the new Eastern Kentucky Alumni
Chapter took place Oct. 11, in
Lexington, Ky. A large and enthusiastic
number of alumni, along with wives and

EASTERN KENTUCKY—C. W. (Bill) Swinford, ’43, with President
Huntley, Mrs. Swinford, and Charles M. Landrum Jr., ’41.

     

SN

friends, attended the event, which
featured President Robert E. R. Huntley
as guest of honor and chief speaker. The
setting for the party was the beautiful Idle
Hour Country Club and featured cocktails
and brunch. In a short business session,
the following officers were placed in
nomination by Ben P. Walden, 53, and
unanimously elected: John R. Bagby, °73L,
president; Fred G. Francis, ’39L, vice
president; and Robert V. May Jr., 68,
secretary-treasurer. Also in attendance was
Bill Washburn, '40, alumni secretary, who
presented a certificate of membership to
the new chapter. John Hollister, 58,
development staff associate from Atlanta,
was also recognized. Following the
brunch, a large group assembled at the
Keenland Race Track for an afternoon of
fun at the races.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_ THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$90.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$75.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight charges and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

 

1929

The late CAPT. WILLIAM JOSEPH Davis BELL JR.
was honored recently by the Army and Navy Club
of Washington, D.C. A handsome lectern with
stand and appropriate extensions for use with the
speaker systems in the various meeting rooms,
was presented to the club by a group of friends of
Capt. Davis, who had resided at the club from
1967 until his death in October 1978.

HARRY E. GODWIN is director of music for the
annual Memphis Mid-South Fair. He is also on the
board of directors of the Memphis Development
Foundation.

1930

VIRGIL C. (PAT) JONES of Centreville, Va., has had
an illustrious and varied career in journalism. He
retired Jan. 3, 1976, and now lives on an 18-acre
farm near the Manassas battlefield. Jones began
his career as city editor of the Huntsville (Ala.)
Times in 1931, and in 1937 moved to the Richmond
Times-Dispatch. In 1941, he transferred to the
Evening Star in Washington, D.C., and two years
later joined the Washington staff of the Wall Street
Journal. He covered the Office of War Information
during World War II. In 1945, Jones joined the
Curtis Publishing Co. and became its manager, a
post he held until his resignation in 1961. In more
recent years, he was with the National Aeronautics
Space Administration and was assigned to write
The Log of Apollo 11, the first official government
account of the moon landing. Jones is the author of
several other books, including Ranger Mosby,
Gray Ghosts and Rebel Raiders, Eight Hours Be-
fore Richmond and The Civil War at Sea. He
recently completed The Dictionary’s No. 1 Com-
panion, which he expects to be published soon.

1934

GEORGE L. REYNOLDS, who for 25 years was with
the Public Service Electric and Gas Co. in Cam-
den, N.J., and is president of the New Jersey
Industrial Development Association, was the cap-
tain of the U.S. Tennis Team during the Brittania
Cup (65 and over) at the Queens Club in London
this year. The U.S. team defeated Great Britain,
3-0.

1937

JOHN M. JONES, publisher of the Greeneville
(Tenn.) Sun, was an aide-de-camp to Admiral Louis
Mountbatten when he was World War II supreme
commander in southeast Asia. Jones recalls that
Mountbatten—recently assassinated by Irish in-
surgents—had “a sense of history, a knowledge of
what ceremony at funerals and weddings can do to
further the solidarity and continuity of a nation.”
According to Jones, Mountbatten had been work-
ing on plans for his funeral for the past two years. A
frequent visitor to Mountbatten when the British
lord was in the United States, Jones described him
as “avery vital, vigorous man . . . He commanded
superior performance and was totally intolerant of

23

Class Notes

anything else. Still, he had a great human touch.
From mingling with the troops in the war to de-
veloping the idea of commando warfare, he was an
almost legendary character.” Jones expected to
see Mountbatten again this fall during a trip to
Europe.

1938

Dr. Harry M. PHILPOTT, president of Auburn
University since 1965, has announced he is step-
ping down as soon as a successor can be found.
Before coming to Auburn, Philpott served eight
years as vice president of the University of Florida.
He served as a chaplain in the United States Naval
Reserve from 1943 to 1946. Philpott, an ordained
Baptist minister, has traveled extensively studying
religion and education in a number of foreign
countries. His many honors include serving as
president of the National Association of State Uni-
versities and Land Grant Colleges. He is the
brother of Washington and Lee’s trustee J. Alvin
Philpott, °45.

1940

SYDNEY LEWIS, a member of W&L’s Board of
Trustees, and his wife, Frances, were among those
honored Sept. 28, 1979, when the Smithsonian
Institution presented the James Smithson Society
Medal to a small group of dedicated persons who
have made major gift contributions. The Lewises
have donated acquisition funds to the Hirshhorn
Museum and Sculpture Garden. Created in 1977,
the Smithson Society is named for the English
scientist who bequethed his entire fortune to the
United States to form the nucleus of the Smith-
sonian Institution.

194]
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANCIS C. (TYKE) BRYAN,
a daughter, Olivia Lloyd, on Aug. 16, 1979. The
family lives in Mt. Sterling, Ky., where Bryan is a
practicing attorney.

BENTON M. WAKEFIELD JR., formerly chairman

of the First Bank & Trust Co. of South Bend, Ind.,

has moved to Gretna, La., where he has become
chairman and chief executive officer of the First
National Bank of Jefferson Parish.

1943

FRANCIS C. (TYKE) BRYAN (See 1941.)

1944

GEORGE T. Woon, formerly associated with the
Monarch Equipment Co. in Louisville, Ky., is
now national marketing manager for the Barbee
Co. of Louisville, who are manufacturers of equip-
ment and supplies for the repair of automotive
radiators.

1945

E. DEAN FINNEY has recently moved from Ver-

24

mont to Harrisonburg, Va., where he expects to go
into the broadcasting business. He owned and
operated two radio stations in Vermont for 30
years. In addition to broadcasting, Finney served
on the Vermont State Board of Education and
recently completed a six-year term as a trustee of
Vermont State College.

1947

WARREN G. MERRIN JR. has been named manager
of radio station WSGN in Birmingham, Ala.
Southern Broadcasting Co., which operates
WSGN, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Harte-
Hanks Communications Inc. Merrin joined WSGN
as a sales account executive in 1958. He was ap-
pointed general sales manager in 1970. Prior to
that, he had been affiliated with Southern Adver-

tising Service in the transit advertising field.

1950

OLIVER M. MENDELL, senior vice president of
Chemical Bank in New York, has recently been
elected treasurer of the U.S.O. and will tour certain
Air Force facilities including Cape Kennedy.

ROBERT F’.. SILVERSTEIN has been elected one of
three commissioners for the Kanawha County
Commission. Kanawha County is the largest in the
state of West Virginia. Silverstein lives in Charles-
ton.

1951

GORDON B. MILLS is now with Blackburn-Sanford
Securities Inc. in Lexington, Ky.

 

Name Your Candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the
By-Laws of Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., the names and addresses of the

A. STEVEN MILES Jr., 51

Louisville, Ky. 40232

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill four seats on
the Alumni Board of Directors and one
vacancy on the University Committee on
Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of
the Alumni Association may submit
names of alumni to the Nominating Com-
mittee for nomination for the offices to be

 

 

ROBERT VAN BUREN, 750

President & CEO Chairman
First National Bank Midlantic Banks Inc.

of Louisville 95 Old Short Hills Road
P. O. Box 36000 West Orange, N. J. 07052

Nominating Committee for 1979-80 are
listed below:

 

MAURICE E. PURNELL JR., 61
Attorney
Locke, Purnell, Boren,
Laney & Neely P.C.
3600 Republic National
Bank Tower
Dallas, Texas 75201

filled. Alumni may send names directly
to any member of the committee or to the
committee through the office of the
Executive Secretary of the Alumni As-
sociation at the University.

The committee will close its report on
March 25, 1980, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association on May 10, 1980.

 

 

   

R. G. Barron, ’57

1953
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. I. M. SHEFFIELD III, a
daughter, Inga Margaret, on Sept. 17, 1979. Shef-
field is with Life Insurance Co. of Georgia in At-
lanta.

1955

M. LEwis Cope, a reporter for the last 13 years
covering medicine and science for the Minneapolis
Tribune, is author of the book Save Your Life: A
Handbook for Preventing Heart Attacks, Cancer,
and Strokes. The book was recently reviewed by
William A. Nolen, a Minnesota surgeon and
author. In his review, Nolen says, “Those who
read his articles—as I do—know that he has a gift
for writing about complex medical matters in a
lucid, interesting style so that any reader, layman
or physician, can clearly understand . . .” Dr.
Nolen explains that “his sources are impeccable.
Minnesota abounds in medical expertise and Cope
hasn't hesitated to utilize all of the leading Minne-
sota experts and highly respected medical or-
ganizations . . . from all over the nation.”

Dr. HARRY G. KENNEDY Jp. is assistant chief of
radiology at the National Naval Medical Center in
~ Bethesda, Md. j

#
9

I. M. SHEFFIELD (See 1953.)

1957

ROBERT G. BANNON has joined First American
Title Insurance Co. as vice president, state man-
ager, and counsel in the Hartford, Conn.., office.
Bannon is a member of the executive committee of
the real property section of the Connecticut Bar
Association and is co-author of the Connecticut
Condominium Manual. He lives in Avon, with his
wife, Dee, and children, Robert Jr. and Kolleen.

1958

THoMas B. BRANCH III and MICHAEL MASINTER,
classmates and close friends at W&L, have joined
their law practices as partners in opening the At-
lanta office of the international law firm of Wild-
man, Harrold, Allen, Dixon & Masinter. In addi-
tion to Atlanta, the firm has offices in Chicago,
Memphis and London, and specializes in interna-
tional transactions, taxation and civil litigation.
Masinter is a member of the University s Achieve-
ment Council, with special responsibility for
foundations. Branch is a past president of the W&L
Alumni Association and presently a member of the
University Board of Trustees.

CHARLES P. Corn has been named executive edi-
tor of the general books division at Macmillan
Publishing Co. in New York. He specializes in
editing fiction and biography.

1959

MARRIAGE: BRUCE MACGOwWAN and Martha

 

T. B. Branch III, °58

   

E. M. Masinter, ’58

Sidbury on July 30, 1979. MacGowan is employed
in the publication department of the Sarasota (Fla.)
Memorial Hospital. His wife is employed in the
records department.

1960

WILLOUGHBY NEWTON III attended the Con-
necticut Mutual Life Insurance Co,’s executive
development program at Dartmouth College in
August 1979. He is general agent for Connecticut
Mutual in Columbia, S.C., and serves as president
of the Central South Carolina Society of Chartered
Life Underwriters.

THOMAS B. BRANCH III (See 1958.)

1961

MICHAEL MASINTER (See 1958.)

1962

PIETER D. BENNETT joined Amway Corp. on Sept.
10, 1979, as public relations editor. He had spent
14 years with the Associated Press in Georgia,
Alabama and Michigan. Bennett, his wife, Shirley,
and three children live in Ada, Mich.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Howarp M. SCHRAMM
Jr., a daughter, Laura Elizabeth, on April 17,
1979, in Mobile, Ala. She joins a 3-year-old broth-
er, Chip. Schramm is president of Turner Supply
Co. and of the Vine and Cheese Co., Mobile’s only
retail wine and cheese shop.

1965

JAMES R. BOARDMAN has been elected a vice
president in the International Division of Manu-
facturers Hanover Trust. He is assigned to the
Asian region. Boardman joined the bank in 1970
after working as a planning analyst with Cities
Service Oil Co. He earned the M.B.A. at Columbia
University in 1967.

Dr. JOLYON GIRARD was promoted to the rank of

associate professor of history at Cabrini College in
Radnor, Pa.

1966

MAURICE R. FLIEss is the managing editor of
presstime, the new monthly journal of the Ameri-
can Newspaper Publishers Association based in
Reston, Va. Fliess joined the organization in 1978
after eight years as a reporter for Cox Newspapers,
five of them in the Cox Washington Bureau.

BARRY L. HOLCOMB has been named placement
liaison and personnel coordinator of staff level em-
ployees for the Art Institute of Fort Lauderdale.
He lives in Oakland Park, Fla.

Roy A. TYLER has formed a new law partnership of
Tyler, Carithers and Brinson in Evansville, Ind.

  

M. R. Fliess, 66

Tyler and his wife, Terry, have two daughters.

1967

ROBERT R. BLACK is special counsel to the execu-
tive office of Amax Nickel Division with offices in
Greenwich, Conn. -Black, who received his law
degree from the University of Virginia, joined
Amax in 1975. He became counsel to its Nickel
Division in 1977. Active in the American Bar As-
sociation, Black serves on the committee of Inter-
national Aspects of Antitrust Law and on the com-
mittee on Foreign Tax Problems. He is a member
of the British Institute of International and Com-
parative Law.

J. MCDANIEL (Mac) HOLuLapbay, formerly execu-
tive vice president of the Columbus, Ind., area
Chamber of Commerce, has recently moved to
Charleston, S.C., to accept the position of execu-
tive vice president of the Charleston Trident
Chamber of Commerce.

THE REv. S. BRYANT KENDRICK JR. began serving
on Sept. 1, 1979, as chaplain to students enrolled
in medical education sponsored by Bowman Gray
Medical School and the North Carolina Baptist
Hospital. His many duties include pastoral coun-
seling of students, faculty and patients as well as
their families and lecturing on medical ethics.
Kendrick resides in Winston-Salem.

1969
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. THEODORE J. DUNCAN III,
ason, Michael Gray, on June 25, 1979. The family
lives in Oklahoma City, Okla., where Duncan is
associated with Harper Oil Co.

1970

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH L. HICKMAN, a
son, Kenneth Brooks, on June 9, 1979, in Bir-
mingham, Ala. Hickman is associated with the law
firm of Thomas, Taliaferro, Forman, Burr and
Murray.

C. DOUGLAS WALKER is an economist in the bal-
ance of payments division of the International
Monetary Fund in Washington. He is also working
on his M.S. degree in accounting at Georgetown
University.

1971
MARRIAGE: ROBERT M. GILL and Salle Ann
Schlueter on Aug. 25, 1979, in Radford, Va. John
W. Hinshaw, 71, David B. Galt Jr., 71, and Wil-
liam McK. Woodward, ’72, were members of the
wedding. Gill is assistant professor of political
science at Radford University and his wife is an
assistant professor of classics.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. JEFFREY SALB, a
daughter, Meagan Elizabeth, on April 22, 1979, in
Norfolk, Va. Salb is associated with the law firm of

25

Class Notes

Breeden, Howard and MacMillan.

JOHN M. MCCARDELL JR. is the author of a new
book titled The Idea of A Southern Nation, pub-
lished by W. W. Norton & Co. Inc. This study,
which was awarded the Allan Nevins Award of the
Society of American Historians, examines the ori-
gins, development and impact of the idea of a
Confederate state prior to the Civil War. McCar-
dell received his Ph.D. from Harvard University
and is currently assistant professor of history at
Middlebury College in Vermont.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT P. FOLEY, a sec-
ond son, David, in June 1979. Foley is Houston
district sales manager of finance leasing for the
Hertz Corp. He was with Ford Motor Co. until
January 1979.

BIRTH: Capt. and Mrs. MICHAEL N. WARD, a
second son, Jeffrey Eugene, on April 5, 1979.
Ward has just completed a three-year tour in Ger-
many and is now chief of the training branch of the
U.S. Army Chemical School at the Edgewood Ar-
senal in Maryland.

ROBERT P. BEAKLEY has formed a new general
practice law firm of Middlesworth, Beakley and
Barry with offices in Atlantic City and Cape May
Court House, N.J.

CAPT. ROBERT M. FORRESTER is an instructor
pilot at Randolph Air Force Base. He and his wife,
the former Judy Fasold, live in San Antonio, Texas.

LEx O. MCMILLAN III became public relations
director of Randolph-Macon College in Ashland,
Va., on Oct. 1, 1979. He had been editor of a
publication for the National Center for Law and
the Handicapped in South Bend, Ind.

LAWSON W. TURNER III became associated with
the Washington law firm of McDermott, Will and
Emery on Aug. 15, 1979.

MARRIAGE: ROBERT L. S. DWELLEY and Sarah
B. Evans on Oct. 13, 1979, in Salisbury, Conn.

MARRIAGE: JOHN R. PORTER III and DeLane
Williams in June 1979 in Suffolk, Va. Porter is a
practicing attorney in Portsmouth and his wife is
teaching English at Nansemond-Suffolk Academy.

BIRTH: Mr. and MRs. JEFFREY M. DIAMOND, a
daughter, Kari, on May 3, 1979. Diamond is treas-
urer and purchasing agent for Astro Chemicals in
Springfield, Mass.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE HENRY RIT-
TER, a daughter, Carin Emily, on June 27, 1979.
Ritter is an attorney in Bridgeton, N.J.

LAWRENCE M. CroFT, formerly with the First

26

 

J. W. Folsom, ’73

National Bank of South Carolina in Columbia, has
now moved to Roanoke, Va., where he has recently
been elected vice president and trust officer of
First National Exchange Bank. Croft is a graduate
of the Trust Business Development and Marketing
School at the University of Colorado.

LAWRENCE E. EVANS Jr. has authored a series of
biographical articles on district judges for The
Houston Lawyer, a quarterly publication of the

Houston Bar Association. Evans graduated from
the South Texas School of Law. He practices in
Houston with Gunn and Lee, a firm specializing in
patents and trademarks.

JoHN W. FOoLsom has been promoted to senior
vice president of South Carolina Federal Savings
& Loan Association. He will formulate mortgage
lending policies for the 20 state-wide offices of the
association. Folsom lives in Columbia, S.C.

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, "70, Smith, Robinson & Vinyard,
117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Atlanta—Fleming Keefe, ’61, The Keefe Co., 1900 Emery St.,
N.W., Suite 208, Atlanta, Ga. 30318

Augusta-Rockingh Ross V. Hersey, '40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—William F. Rienhoff IV, 74, Baker Watts & Co., Cal-
vert & Redwood Sts., Baltimore, Md. 21203

Birmingham— David R. Pittman, ’75, The John G. Pittman Agency,
1101 S. 22nd St., Birmingham, Ala. 35204

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, ’69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl. Bank
of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, 74, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston, S.C.—Rutherford P. C. Smith, 68, ’74L, P.O. Box
10867, Charleston, S.C. 29411

Charleston, W. Va.—Louie A. Paterno, 65, ’68L, P.O. Box 2791,
Charleston, W. Va. 25330

Charlotte—Lat W. Purser, 73, 1659 Scotland Ave., Charlotte,
N.C. 28207

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, °72L, 111 Maclellan Bldg. ,
721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, 62, ’65L, Winston and Strawn, One
First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60603
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, 56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—John H. Tisdale, ’74, Rollins, Wenner &
Price, 5 West Church St., Frederick, Md. 21701

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., 61, P.O. Box 344-108, Dallas, Texas
75234

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, 75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—Ernest I. Cornbrooks III, 67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisbury, Md. 21801

Detroit—James W. Large, 68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern Kentucky—John R. Bagby, ’73, 1107 First Natl. Bank
Bldg., Lexington, Ky. 40507

Eastern North Carolina—Walter Lockhart III, 69, 2901 Arnold
Rd., Durham, N.C. 27707

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, "73, 3824 San Juan,
Tampa, Fla. 33609

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream—Mercer K. Clarke, 66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr., 64, 11847 Memorial Dr.,
Houston, Texas 77024

Jacksonville—Charles E. Commander III, 62, 3839 Ortega Blvd. ,
Jacksonville, Fla. 32210

Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, 71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock—William F. Rector Jr., "70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205

Long Island—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., 41, 174 Parsons Dr.,
Hempstead, L.I., N.Y. 11550

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., 70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—E. Starke Sydnor, ’66, P.O. Box 958, Lynchburg, Va.
24505

Mid-South—Jody Brown, ’65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Braid Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbrun Viaduct, Nashville, Tenn. 37215
Mobile—McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601

Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, ’°72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass., 02149

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, 68, 200 Carondelet St.,
New Orleans, La. 70130

New York—John M. Ellis, 56, HAUS International, 1212 Avenue
of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, 61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—John Madison Jr., 64, Weiner, Weiss,
Madison & Howell, 411 Commercial National Bank Bldg., Shreve-
port, La. 71101

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, 66, Abbott & McMurry, 414
Park/Harvey Center, Oklahoma City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 129 LeHane
Terrace, North Palm Beach, Fla. 33408

Palmetto—A. G. “Joe” Wilson, ’69, 2825 Wilton Rd., W. Columbia,
S.C. 29169

Peninsula—Phillip M. Dowding, '52, 10 Butler Place, Newport
News, Va. 23606

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, Suite 250, 222 S. Tarragona,
Pensacola, Fla. 32573

Philadelphia—Edward W. Coslett III, ’70, 35 Langston Lane,
Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, "73, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.,
Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnston, ’56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond—Robert H. Yevich, 70, 10220 Apache Rd., Richmond,
Va. 23235

Roanoke—James M. Turner Jr., 67, °71L, 2913 Lockridge Rd.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington, Va.
24450

St. Louis—Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., 66, 19 Topton Way, St.
Louis, Mo. 63105

San Antonio—H. Drake Leddy, ’71, Arthur Andersen & Co., 425
Soledad St., Suite 600, San Antonio, Texas 78205
Shenandoah—James R. Denny III, 73, The Equitable Life Assur-
ance Society, 1015 Berryville Ave., Suite 3, Winchester, Va. 22601
South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, 74, P. O. Box
695, Greenville, S. C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, 53, Box 1762, Santa
Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Smith Hickenlooper III, 64, Bartlett & Co., 120
E. Fourth St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45202

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr., 54, 60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531

Tidewater—William P. Ballard Jr., 73, 409 Yarmouth St., Norfolk,
Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, ’69L, Box 1835, Huntington, W.
Va. 25701

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, ’78, 2513 E. 18th St., Tulsa, Okla.
74104

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, 70, Arthur Andersen & Co.,
1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, 53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abi-
lene, Texas 79605

Wisconsin—Price M. Davis Jr., 36, 10060 N. Range Line Rd.,
Mequon, Wisc. 53092

 

 

W. D. Genge, ’75

JERROD L. GODIN has moved from assistant man-
ager of Boars Head Inn in Albermarle County,
Va., to manager of the Sheraton Inn in Salisbury,
Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM E. WALSH, a
son, Westbrook Emmet, on Oct. 5, 1979. Walsh is
an attorney in Spartanburg, S.C.

MorGAN O. DOOLITTLE III has earned the M.S.
degree in taxation from the University of Hartford's
School of Business and Public Administration. He
lives in Avon, Conn., and practices law with the
firm of Dow and Doolittle in Bloomfield.

JAMES J. KELLEY III is practicing labor law in
Washington, D.C., with the firm of Morgan, Lewis
and Bockins. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

1975

BIRTH: MR. and Mrs. Davip A. ESTES, a daugh-
ter, Holly Marie, on Sept. 24, 1979, in El Paso,
Texas. Estes is a tariff analyst for E] Paso Natural
Gas Co. j
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALEXANDER H. MACK-
INTOSH, a daughter, Laura Bryan, on June 20,
1979, in Winston-Salem, N.C. Mackintosh is an
accountant with Ernst and Whinney.

MATTHEW J. CALVERT is currently a law clerk for
Judge John Minor Wisdom of the United States
Court of Appeals, Fifth Circuit, in New Orleans,
La.

WILLIAM DEAN GENGE has been named a New
York account manager for Business Week. Genge
joined McGraw-Hill as a sales trainee in 1977 and
was San Francisco district manager for Electronics
before moving to New York.

MICHAEL D. JARBOE, former assistant manager
with the Stanford Court Hotel in San Francisco,
has moved to Washington, D.C., where he is
assistant manager for the Four Seasons Hotel in
the Georgetown area.

LT. (j.G.) KARL E. KLINGER has completed a tour
as bombardier/navigator for the A-6 Intruder with
Attack Squadron 65. The tour included two deploy-
ments to the Mediterranean and extensive train-
ing operations in the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexi-
co. Klinger is now assigned to a training command
at NAS Oceana in Virginia Beach where he trains
replacement aircrews in special weapons delivery.

Davip P. RicBy has been named an associate of
the Society of Actuaries. To receive this designation
he had to pass five separate examinations in the
fields required to design and calculate the cost of
insurance, pension and employee benefit pro-
grams. Rigby is an actuarial consultant with
Hewitt Associates in Lincolnshire, II]. He and his
wife, Deborah, live in Buffalo Grove.

ANDREW T. SMITH has been appointed corporate
labor counsel of Genesco Inc. in Nashville, Tenn.
He lives in Franklin, with his wife, Shelley, and
children, Meaghan and Andrew.

R. ALLAN WEBB is associated with the law firm of
Counts and DuVall in Olive Hill, Ky. He graduated
from law school at the University of Kentucky in
June 1978 and married the former Betsy Brooks.
They live in Winchester, Ky.

JOHN F. ZINK is presently serving as assistant
attorney general for the Commonwealth of Ken-
tucky with offices in Frankfort. He specializes in
retirement, education, civil rights and administra-
tive law.

1976

MARRIAGE: WiLu1aAM E. THompson IV and
Barbara T. Kirwan on July 28, 1979, in Baltimore,
Md. Kenneth C. Miller III, ’75, attended the wed-
ding. Thompson is working in the bookkeeping
department of W. H. Bryan Co., as well as teaching
art part time and coaching freshman lacrosse at
Boys Latin School in Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. A. DICKINSON B. PHIL-
LIPS, ason, Walker Winfree, on June 28, 1979, in
Norfolk, Va. Phillips is an investment broker with
A. G. Edwards and Sons Inc. in Norfolk.

PETER R. CAVALIER has been elected assistant to
the secretary and treasurer of Fidelity Union Trust
Co. in Newark, N.J. He is assistant manager of the
bank’s credit department and a master’s degree
candidate at Fairleigh Dickinson University.
Cavalier lives in North Arlington, N.J.

Louis P. MCFADDEN Jr. and his wife, Marti, live
in Pacific Palisades, Calif., where McFadden is on
the legal staff of the American Medical Interna-
tional Co. which is based in Beverly Hills. The
McFaddens have two children.

RICHARD L. THIERINGER has been named marine
supervisor for the southwest regions of the Atlantic
Companies, a national property, liability and ma-
rine insurance group. He joined Atlantic in 1977 as
a marine underwriter in the Philadelphia office.
Thieringer is moving to Houston to oversee marine
insurance operations in Texas, Louisiana, Mis-
sissippi, Arkansas and Oklahoma.

JERE A. WELLS earned his M.A. degree in English
from the University of Georgia in June 1979. He is
now teaching English at Woodberry Forest School.

1977

MARRIAGE: E. BRUCE HARVEY JR. and Bridget
Ann Guthrie on July 29, 1979, at Lake Shalom in
Brookneal, Va. Harvey received his masters de-
gree from the Presbyterian School of Christian
Education in Richmond, Va. The couple will live
in Richmond, Ky., where Harvey will be director
of Christian education for the First Presbyterian

Church and director of campus ministry of Eastern
University of Kentucky.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES M. LOLLAR, a
daughter, Christina Elizabeth. Lollar is associated
with the Norfolk law firm of Willcox, Savage, Law-
rence, Dickson and Spindle. He is licensed in
North Carolina as well as Virginia.

PAUL B. BURNS is a first-year student at the Uni-
versity of Southern California Law Center.

ScoTT A. CARLSON has been elected assistant
secretary in Manufacturers Hanover Trust Na-
tional Division, central district. He joined the
bank’s management program in 1977 and was pro-
moted to territory representative in 1978.

Davip C. Davis, after two years in paralegal work
with the law firm of Sidley and Austin in Washing-
ton, D.C., is now a first-year student at the St.
Louis University School of Law.

R. MARK PAYNE is a first-year student at Houston
Medical School of the University of Texas. He
attended the university and worked in Austin for
the previous two years.

1978

MARRIAGE: JOHN H. KINGSTON and Nancy L.
Monitto on April 7, 1979, in Carle Place, N.Y.
Classmates Robert F. Hedelt, Robert A. Szczecin-
ski and William O. Frear Jr. attended the wedding.
Kingston is a reporter for the Herald-News in Pas-
saic, N.J. He had been city hall reporter for the
Bee in Danville, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Travis E. BASS, a son,
Travis Edwin Jr., on Aug. 31, 1979. They live in
Altavista, Va.

A. JEFFREY BIRD is a second-year law student at
the University of Virginia.

Jack D. KOPALD recently completed a clerkship
for U.S. District Court Judge Harry D. Wellford
of western Tennessee. He is now associated with
the Memphis law firm of Laughlin, Halle, Regan,
Clark and Gibson.

Davip J. MCLEAN spent the 1978-79 school year
as the St. Andrew's Scholar at the University of
Edinburgh where he pursued graduate studies in
politics and economics. He returned to the United
States and worked last summer as a special assistant
to Rep. Harold Hollenbeck (R.-N.J.). McLean is
now attending Georgetown Law Center as a first-
year student.

RYLAND R. OWEN is a first-year graduate student
in history at the University of Virginia. He is
specializing in early modern English history and
expects to earn the M.A. degree in two years.

KENNETH F. PARKS received the LL.M. in taxation
at New York University and is associated with the

oi

In Memoriam

firm of Hall, Monahan, Engle, Mahan and Mitchell
in Leesburg, Va.

MARK A. PUTNEY completed a year’s appointment
on the W&L admissions staff in June 1979. After
spending the summer in Shreveport, La., he is
now employed in the training program of Alexan-
der Brown and Sons, investment bankers and
brokers in Richmond, Va.

JOHN F. RESEN has been named national sales
director of Shenandoah Valley Magazine. Resen
makes his residence in Lexington, Va.

1979

ANDREW L. RADCLIFFE is a production technician
with Ryan Homes Inc., building contractors, out
of the Washington-Frederick, Md. office.

JOHN R. TRUMP is brand advertising assistant for
Procter & Gamble Co. in Cincinnati, Ohio.

MICHAEL F. WENKE has begun his 10-month
internship as a Luce Scholar. He is assigned to the
Korean Amateur Basketball Association in Seoul
and will also have an opportunity to observe Korean
legal activities. Wenke postponed plans to attend
law school to participate as W&L’s first Luce
Scholar, one of 15 for the year selected from 140
nominees at 60 colleges.

MATTHEW J. CALVERT (See 1975.)

Louis P. MCFADDEN Jr. (See 1976.)

 

In Memoriam

 

1914

LEON O’QuIN, a prominent attorney with the
Shreveport, La., law firm of Blanchard, Walker,
O’Quin & Roberts, died Aug. 27, 1979, after a
lengthy illness. O’'Quin was a World War I veteran,
serving as a captain in the field artillery in France.
He was a member of the American Bar, the Louisi-
ana State Bar and the Shreveport Bar Association.

1918

WILLIAM CHAPMAN REVERCOMB, who was twice
elected to the United States Senate from West
Virginia, died Oct. 6, 1979, in Charleston. Rever-
comb was first elected to the Senate in 1942, and
served one term. He was subsequently the Re-
publican nominee from West Virginia in five
senatorial elections, and was re-elected in the 1956
race. After losing his seat to Democrat Robert C.
Byrd, Revercomb returned to Charleston and de-
voted his attention to state office. At the age of 64,
he ran in the 1960 gubernatorial primary for the
Republican nomination. Known as a decided con-
servative, he was a vocal proponent of the Taft-
Hartley law. Revercomb gave up his political ca-
reer and law practice after a stroke in 1968.

28

1919

ORLANDO CHILDS RUCKER JR., formerly of
Lynchburg, Va., and more recently of Roanoke,
died Aug. 31, 1979. Rucker served in the U. S.
Army during World War I and the Army of Oc-
cupation in Germany. After practicing law in Bed-
ford, Rucker was president of Rucker-Jennings
Inc., a general insurance firm in Lynchburg, until
his retirement in 1960.

1922

THOMAS MOTT ALEXANDER died Sept. 8, 1979, in
Salisbury, N.C. He was formerly a lay-leader in
the Episcopal Church and was associated with the
Chapel of Hope. A former active member of the
Brotherhood of St. Andrews, Alexander served
during World War I in the U.S. Army.

RUDOLPH JONES, former Shelby County Commis-
sioner of Roads, Bridges and the Penal Farm, and
a long-time environmentalist and conservationist
in the Memphis area, died Oct. 9, 1979. Jones was
a division engineer for the Tennessee Highway
Department from 1933 to 1943, when he entered
the Navy. He left military service in 1946 as a
lieutenant commander after commanding a con-
struction battalion for 18 months in the Pacific.
Jones was elected to the old Shelby County Com-
mission in 1946 and served until 1962. From 1964-
1973 he served as a paid consultant to the Shelby
County Conservation Board, and later in a similar
capacity with the Chickasaw Basin Authority. He
was instrumental in forming the Shelby County
Conservation Board and many of the county’s
open-space, park and greenway projects. In 1969,
the Memphis Civitan Club awarded Jones the Jack
Carley Award for his development of the Missis-
sippi River. Jones served as president of the Ten-
nessee County Highway Officials’ Association and
as a director of the county and local roads division
of the American Road Builders Association. For
many years, he was affiliated with a local Masonic
order.

1927

MARION LESLIE BERGMAN of Monroeville, Ala.,
died May 7, 1979. Bergman practiced law in Roa-

noke, Va., from 1926 to 1940, at which time he:

moved to Monroeville and was employed with
Monroe Realty Co. until his retirement in 1975.
Monroe Realty Co. was engaged primarily in leas-
ing for oil companies. Bergman served as president
of the Monroeville Chamber of Commerce, a
member of the Kiwanis, and lieutenant governor
of Kiwanis Division V. He had also been president
of the Gulf Coast Council of the Boy Scouts of
America, and at his death was reported to be the
oldest living Eagle Scout.

1929

JOHN VERNON Eppy, who was employed for 35
years as a purchasing agent for National Fruit Pro-
ducts Co. of Winchester, Va., died July 17, 1979.

As a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy, Eddy served
both in Europe and the South Pacific as a gunnery
officer in World War II.

1935

ANGUS M. CAMPBELL JR., a tax accountant in
Birmingham, Mich., died July 10, 1978. Campbell
was a life member of Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity,
and honorary life member of B.P.O.E. # 810,
Knight Templer # 2 Detroit Consistory and Mos-
lem Shrine. After graduation from W&L, Camp-
bell attended the U.S. Naval Academy. He was a
partner in the accounting firm of Campbell and
Nelles.

1946

WILLIAM E. TRIPLETT, an attorney advisor and
branch chief in the Interstate Commerce Com-
mission's office of proceedings, died Aug. 16, 1979,
in McLean, Va. Triplett served in the U.S. Army
Air Force during World War II. He was a former
president of the Fairfax County Historical Society,
a member of the Society of Cincinnati in Virginia
and a member of the National Society of Descen-
dants of Lords of Maryland Manors.

1948

THOMAS GRAFTON MCCLENNAN Jr. of Towson,
Md., died Sept. 14, 1979.

1951

THOMAS GRAFTON MCCLENNAN JR. (See 1948.)

1956

Capt. DETLOW MAINCH MARTHINSON JR., whose
last assignment was with the Office of Commander,
Atlantic Fleet, Norfolk, Va., died Oct. 1, 1979. He
had retired in August 1979 after serving for a year
as deputy assistant chief of staff for current opera-
tions. From 1969 to 1972, Marthison worked in
connection with advanced ship types and combat-
ant crafts at the Navy department in Washington.
His decorations included the Legion of Merit and
the Bronze Star Medal.

1962
Jon W. MONTAGUE died July 12, 1979. He was an
attorney with the Houston law firm of Eastham,
Watson, Dale and Forney. Montague received the
LL.B. degree from the University of Texas at Aus-
tin in 1964.

1972

PHILLIP FAIRCLOUGH CALKINS, a practicing phy-
sician in Austin, Texas, died Feb. 25, 1979. After
receiving his B.A. degree from the University of
Texas in 1972, Calkins graduated from the Univer-
sity of Texas Medical School at Houston in 1977.
After an internship he began practicing medicine
in Austin. He and his wife, Becky, had one son,

Phillip Jr.

 

 

Basketball

Nov. 24—Southeastern

Nov. 27—Bowie State

Dec. 1—Maryville

Dec. 3—Roanoke

Dec. 5—Hampden-Sydney
Dec. |8—Shenandoah

Dec. 19-31-Europe-Bahamas Trip
Jan. 4-5—Suncoast Classic

Winter Sports Schedule

HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

(Wabash, Eckerd, Ripon, W&L)

Jan. 11-12—W&L Invitational

HOME

(York, Oglethorpe, Clinch Valley,

W&L)
Jan. 15—Hampden-Sydney
Jan. 17—Eastern Mennonite

Jan. 19—Lynehburg

Jan. 23—Gettysburg

Jan. 26—Bridgewater

Jan. 29—Emory & Henry

Jan. 31—Roanoke

Feb. 2—Maryville

Feb. 5—Lynchburg

Feb. 7—Emory & Henry

Feb. 9Salisbury State

Feb. 12—Eastern Mennonite

Feb. 14—Randolph-Macon

Feb. 16—Bridgewater

Feb. 21-23—ODAC Tournament
(at Hampden-Sydney)

Swimming
Nov. 15—VMI
Dec. 1—Univ. of Richmond
Dec. 5—James Madison
Jan. 11—George Washington
Jan. 12—Ferrum
Jan. 18—Davidson
Jan. |19—Towson State
Jan. 26—William & Mary
Jan. 30—VPI
Feb. §©9—Old Dominion

Feb. 15—Virginia Commonwealth

Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away

HOME
Away
Away

HOME

HOME

HOME

HOME

HOME
Away
Away

HOME

Feb. 21-23—UNC-Wilmington Invitational Away

 

 

Feb. 28-
Mar. 1—-VVirginia State Meet
Mar. 8-9—Johns Hopkins Invitational
Mar. 20-22—-NCAA Division III National
Championships
(at Washington & Jefferson)

Indoor Track

Feb. 2—VMI Relays

Feb. |9—Lynchburg, Davidson
(at Lynchburg)

Feb. 16—Lynchburg Relays

Feb. 23—ODAC Championships
(at Lynchburg)

Wrestling

Nov. 17—James Madison Tournament
Dec. 1—VMI
Dec. 5—Longwood
Dec. 8—W&L Invitational
(York, VMI, James Madison,

 

Norfolk, Va.

Away

Away

Away
Away

Away
Away

Away
Away
Away

HOME

Campbell, Liberty Baptist, Carson-
Newman, Pembroke State, W&L)

Jan. 11—Campbell

Jan. 12—Duke

Jan. 15—Glassboro St.,
Hampden-Sydney

Jan. | 19—Citadel Invitational

Jan. 24—Lynchburg

Jan. 26—W&L Invitational

Away
Away

HOME

Away
Away

HOME

(Longwood, Davidson, Lynchburg,
Maryville, Catawba, Hampden-

Sydney, Pfeiffer, W&L)
Feb. | 2—Pembroke Invitational
Feb. | 6—Longwood
Feb. 12—James Madison
Feb. 15—Davidson
Feb. 16—George Washington
Feb. 19—ODAC Championships
(at Hampden-Sydney)
Feb. 22-23—-NCAA Regional Tournament

Away

HOME

Away

HOME

Away
Away

Away

 

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

