JULY 1971

- alumni magazine of washington and lee university

f
; me

A ||

+

=~ =

: j
4 ‘
vm
a
:
Fi
t
sy

~~ ‘
}
;
.
=
>}
<_
’
{

 

 

 

 

Wy.
&

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 46, Number 3, July 1971

William C. Washburn 7°40.......00000..00cceeececreeeees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman.............0....0..... Managing Editor
A. Michael Philipps ’64...........0.0....:) Associate Editor

and Photographer

Mrs. Joyce Carter........0...0. ccc eee Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Honor System Reaffirmed.........0cceeccecseeseeeteeeseeens l
Kernan Grant oo. eeeesssceccceesstseececseenseeeeseeseseeeesesens 2
First Kenan Professor .........cecceecscceeeessteeeeeeeenneens 3
Catch 71 viecceesceesseessseeeteeertecssteesseeerseesseeeeneesneees 5
COMMENCEMENE 1971 ...ceccccccccceesseeessseeesssseeeeneeeseaes 6
The Role of Phi Beta Kappa Today .............006 8
Campus NEWS ......ccccccesceeseeeseeseeceeesseseneenseerseesseesneeenes 13
Traveller Laid to ReSt ...... ce eeeeeseeeeeereeseneeereeseeees 19
Great Year for Lacrosse ..........eeceeeeeneeeeeenseeeeeens 20
First Alumni Fund Chairman ........ ee eeeeeeeeees 22
Alumni Weekend... eceeeeesereeeeeeeeeenenneserens 23
New Alumni OfMCEYLS 0.0... ceecseeeeeteeeeteeeeeeseeeeeees 25
Chapter, N€WS: oes ceccesscceresnedapenesesnernsontcontesscsseneenens 26
CASS OGRE cei sisepedacecasercustonen cuztnswabececevseetocsreeers 27
Bill Streit, Great COach ......ceeceeeseeeseteeseeeeneernees 35

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. Application for change
of title and frequency pending.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RicHarp H. TurRELL, ’49, Short Hills, N.J.
President

A. CHRISTIAN COMPTON, ’50, Richmond, Va.
Vice President

T. Hat CrarkeE, '38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Upton BEALL, ’51, Tyler, ‘Texas
RIcHARD D. HAyNEs, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
WILLIAM H. HItuirr, ’38, Chicago, Ill.

S. L. Kopa.p, JR., 43, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ‘50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. ALvIN PHILPOTT, ’45, Lexington, N.C.
Emit C. RassMAN, III, ’41, Midland, Texas
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, 55, New Orleans, La.
EVERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the cover: Dr. William A. Jenks, professor of
history, head of the department, eminent scholar,
and distinguished teacher, is Washington and Lee’s
first Kenan Professor. His appointment was made
possible by a gift of $600,000 from the William R.
Kenan Jr. Charitable Trust. The gift and the ap-
pointment, announced by President Huntley at
commencement exercises, are reported in this maga-
zine. The cover portrait of Dr. Jenks is by A.
Michael Philipps, University photographer.

 

 

€

.

~*~.

| mong
_— we
a

 

 

 

‘suspicion, threat, and —

 

 

cious €

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kenan grant establishes
distinguished professorship —=*

Washington and Lee University has received a $600,-
ooo grant from the William R. Kenan Jr. Charitable
Trust of New York to establish a distinguished professor-
ship. Dr. William A. Jenks, professor of history and head
of the department, has been named the first Kenan Pro-
fessor. Dr. Jenks, a graduate of Washington and Lee, is a
recognized authority on the history of Austria and the
Habsburg Empire and has published three definitive
books in those fields.

President Huntley announced receipt of the grant
and the appointment of Dr. Jenks in his commencement
remarks.

“It is particularly heartening to be able to announce
this gift on Commencement Day,” he said, “because in
many ways it is symbolic of the new commitment which
the University has made to move into the future with
courage and conviction. That future will clearly require
large dedication and effort by all those who labor for
Washington and Lee. The Kenan grant is an emphatic
indication that intelligent and discerning men who owe
no special allegiance to us share our conviction and wish
us to know that our confidence is justified.”

The Foundation trustees said the principal of the
Kenan grant is to be invested by Washington and Lee as
part of its endowment and the income used to maintain
‘‘a professorship of eminence and distinction.” President
Huntley said the Kenan Trust desired “‘to support a
scholar-teacher of distinction whose enthusiasm for learn-
ing, commitment to teaching, and interest in students will
make a notable contribution to the undergraduate com-
munity.”

The man for whom the professorship is named, Wil-
liam Rand Kenan Jr., devoted a lifetime to the advance-
ment of higher education. He began his career as a
country school teacher in Radford, Va., and subsequently
became one of America’s most prominent industrialists.

In his will he stated: “I have always believed firmly
that a good education is the most cherished gift an in-
dividual can receive, and it is my sincere hope that [the
Kenan Trust] will result in a substantial benefit to man-
kind.”

A native of Wilmington, N.C., Mr. Kenan studied at
the University of North Carolina, where he earned a
bachelor of science degree in 1894. While a student, he

2

 

and his professor, F. P. Venable, discovered and identified
calcium carbide. They determined its formula and learned
that acetylene gas could be derived from it. This discovery
became the basis of important industrial advancements
throughout the world.

Acetylene gas when mixed with oxygen burns hot
enough to melt most metals, yet is easily controlled. Oxy-
acetylene welding and cutting of steels and other metals is
an essential part of the construction and manufacturing
industries.

Mr. Kenan, as a chemical and mechanical engineering
adviser, was responsible for the installation of several im-
portant plants for the carbide and acetylene industry in
the United States, Austrialia, and Germany. Among them
was the plant for Union Carbide at Niagara Falls, an
electric furnace for the former Cowles Aluminum Co.,
and an early steam and electric plant for General
Electric.

Shortly after the turn of the century, Mr. Kenan
joined Henry M. Flagler as a consulting and construc-
tion engineer. Mr. Flagler was developing and expanding
an empire of railroads, hotels, utilities, and other enter-
prises in Florida. Mr. Kenan developed Florida’s first elec-
tric power plant, and from 1924 until his death at the
age of 93 in 1965, Mr. Kenan was president and part
owner of the Flagler System companies, which included
the Florida East Coast Railway and the Florida East Coast
Hotel Co.

The Kenan family interest in education dates from
America’s early days. Mr. Kenan’s great-grandfather,
James, became a member of the first Board of ‘Trustees
of the University of North Carolina in 1790, and five
members of the family have served in similar capacity.
Eight of James Kenan’s descendants became major donors
of books, scholarships, student loan funds and funds for
professorships at UNC. William Kenan Jr.’s own con-
tributions to UNC included a stadium, support of the
university press and publications for the library.

He left most of his estate—valued at more than $100
million—to the Charitable Trust to be used in establish-
ing professorships, scholarships, instructorships, and fel-
lowships. Under those provisions, Kenan professorships
have been established at 29 colleges and universities, now
including Washington and Lee, all of national distinction.

WeL

*

by Robert S. Keefe

Dr. William A. Jenks:
first Kenan professor

The William R. Kenan Jr. Charitable Trust seemed
to have Dr. William Alexander Jenks in mind when it
endowed a Kenan chair at Washington and Lee “to
support a scholar-teacher of distinction. . . .”

The University’s first Kenan Professor is a scholar’s
scholar. His books and other research publications—each
without exception a primary reference in its field—have
established him among America’s most respected authori-
ties in modern Austrian history. His major works include
the books The Austrian Electoral Reform of 1907, Vienna
and the Young Hitler, and Austria Under the Iron Ring,
1879-1893.

As a teacher, his students’ regard for him is almost

al i ree
; -

a
LAA

ty gle

rs
Ja ¢
| f

Dr. Jenks is recognized at commencement.

July, 1971

 

Ai f®
bi

unlimited, and their special success—in history and in
other areas at Washington and Lee and later—demon-
strates that their regard is well placed.

Dr. Jenks’ own personal dedication to undergraduate
education in general and to Washington and Lee in par-
ticular is total. A number of years ago, Dr. Jenks made
the decision that Washington and Lee is where he wants
to stay, rather than teach at the graduate level. (The uni-
versities that would like to have him on their graduate
faculties may take consolation, though, that Dr. Jenks’
former students have become ranking scholars at a large
number of the nation’s most prestigious graduate in-
stitutions.)

Just as total is his dedication to his students. By
choice he continues to teach freshmen as well as upper-
classmen; he appreciates in particular their perspectives
and their approaches, their willingness to draw on what
they already know and are learning in other courses as it
pertains to the subject-matter immediately at hand.

Besides his courses for underclassmen—the introduc-
tory European civilization survey and a special seminar
in modern European social and ideological development
—Dr. Jenks teaches advanced courses in the Renaissance,
Islamic history, and imperial and Soviet Russian history.
Covering so broad a range of fields leads to a “certain
skill on the part of the teacher,” according to Dr. Jenks,
“in developing a detached and expert critical eye.” That
sort of close familiarity with the progression of ideas and
events in a variety of fields (if history can be compartmen-
talized into distinct “fields” at all) brings a measure of ex-
pertise and perspective in one’s methods of analysis and
assessment.

Explaining his research interests, Dr. Jenks comments
that he is “enormously interested in the ways ethnic
groups get along—or don’t.” His current field of investiga-
tion, the Habsburg dynasty’s relations with Italy between
1849 and 1882, is a classic example of conflict among
peoples—and of the historian’s problems in analyzing it.

There are literally thousands of books on the subject,
but most of them are heavily colored in their presenta-
tion. Have nationalistic Austrian and Italian historians
“up-played”’ the bitterness of the rivalry between their
countries? Wasn't there considerable cultural interchange
—didn’t the Austrians admire Verdi, to take an example;

3

Kenan Professor

 

wasn’t there a considerable interest in Italy toward the
Germanic type of philosophy that predominated in 19th-
century Austria? Did formal national policy exaggerate
tensions which were perhaps not nearly so pronounced
among each nation’s citizens? Is not a substantial re-
evaluation necessary in determining the pervasiveness of
the hostilities between the nations? And, hardly least,
how does an historian go about uncovering the facts be-
hind the passions?

As a faculty fellow of the American Council of Learn-
ed Societies and later under a Ford Foundation grant to
Washington and Lee, Dr. Jenks has travelled to Italy,
Austria and England to research those formidable ques-
tions, sifting through century-old state records—first in
Turin (where archives for the kingdom of Sardinia-
Piedmont in the 1850s are located), then in Rome (where
foreign office records for the 1860s and the 1870s are kept).
It was an almost-overwhelming task: it required reading
every report from every ambassador, every economist,
every spy, a procedure duplicated in the archives in
Vienna. Then it was onto the French consular records for
what turned out to be “an excellent set of observations”
of what had actually gone on in Venice and Milan in the
era of tension.

That research covered more than a year and a half in
Europe, in the archives themselves. There were hundreds
of articles and books to go through as well, evaluating
facts and assertions, largely “finding out what isn’t im-
portant.”

Evaluation—“‘finding out what isn’t important’’—is one
of the historical scholar’s greatest challenges. ‘“‘Much re-
search is extremely disappointing,” Dr. Jenks says. “You
spend six weeks going through raw material for one signi-
ficant point.” Part of what makes Dr. Jenks a scholar,
though, is that he perseveres—and eventually he comes up
with that significant point.

Now, four years after initiating his research, Dr.
Jenks is set to begin writing. After g0 months of full-time
research, he’s spending his summer on the book—writing
one chapter of it. (“It’s a lengthy chapter,” he explains.
Haste in analyzing, tying together, explaining a new
thesis does not a scholar make.)

He conducts all his research and writes all his books
like that—when he isn’t teaching. No less than research-

4

ing, teaching is a full-time occupation. But the benefits
derived from his scholarly investigation, the perspective
and the sharpened analytic abilities it helps develop, rub
off on his teaching, and serve to define the value of one
who is a scholar-teacher as opposed to one who is either a
scholar or a teacher. His students sense it; it’s an ingredi-
ent in their regard for him.

In class he encourages—requires—his students con-
stantly to exercise and thereby refine their own analytic
abilities. Typically he will drive home a crucial point in
a deceptively easy manner: carefully portraying personali-
ties and circumstances, then, without the slightest fan-
fare, typing it all together with a perfectly logical thesis,
the kind that leads to a flood of corollary insights. Just
for a moment, a pause; then on to another point. His stu-
dents don’t take him because he’s easy; \on the contrary.

Dr. Jenks inclined toward European history when he
came to Washington and Lee as a student. He recalls that
his professors here strongly influenced his decision to
enter graduate study after graduation in 1939 and enter
teaching. He earned both the M. A. and Ph.D. degrees
from Columbia University. After Army Air Corps serv-
ice in World War II, he returned to Washington and Lee
as an instructor, becoming a full professor in 1956 and
head of the history department in 1970. He has been im-
mersed in his specialty from the start. He has had a num-
ber of research fellowships, including a Fulbright, grants
from the Fund for the Advancement of Education, the
Social Science Research Council, the American Council
of Learned Societies, as well as Washington and Lee fac-
ulty grants.

Why history, anyway? Isn’t it supposed to be, as they
say, “irrelevant”? To Dr. Jenks, that’s hardly so. It’s
sometimes difficult to demonstrate; to become cynical is
“the easiest vice.” (That happened in the Renaissance; it
happened in the eighteenth century—another lesson from
history.)

“History implies that there are a lot of Mondays in
developing a personal philosophy of life. In a limited
amount of time a teacher tries to help his students develop
insights; he points to man’s magnificent achievements as
well as to the conquerors and demagogues.

“History implies that there are a lot of Mondays in
life.”

WoL

 

w Mrs. Francis P. Gaines, wife of the late
great president of Washington and Lee,
was a guest at this year’s alumni luncheon,
and President Huntley passed on to the
alumni a story she had told him: The
young child of a faculty member who lives
near her home was visiting Mrs. Gaines
one day as he often did. When the child
was about to leave, Mrs. Gaines asked the
child if he knew who she was. “Oh, yes,
ma’m, I know who you are. You’re Mrs.
Robert E. Lee.”

m Newspapers carried a story recently
about a scientist who had discovered that
adults lose brain cells at the rate of 100,000
a day. A W&L administrator, seeing the
story, said to Milton Colvin, professor of
politics, “I thought that every day and in
every way I was getting better and better,
and now I find out that I am getting worse
and worse.” Colvin’s comforting remark,
paraphrasing a certain bard, was: “Tis
better to have learned and forgotten than
never to have learned at all.”

a Jack Warner, a trustee, dedicated on
May 8 a new headquarters building for
his Gulf States Paper Co. in Tuscaloosa,
Ala., an edifice of splendid oriental design.
President and Mrs. Huntley, Treasurer
and Mrs. Whitehead, and Dr. and Mrs.
I-Hsiung Ju of the W&L art department,
went down for the ceremonies, squeezing
in the trip between the Alumni Board
meeting on Friday and the alumni lunch-
eon on Saturday. President Huntley re-
ported that it appeared for a time that
they were being guarded by a host of Pink-
erton guards. ‘Then he discovered that the
Japanese ambassador to the United States
was staying in an adjacent room and the
guards were for him. Anyway, the W&L
party returned safely and on time—with

July, 197]

Catch 71

A collection of this and that
from here and there
about W&L people and things

help of Jack Warner’s private jet.

a Charles Clarke, this year’s alumni presi-
dent, paid this tribute to Alumni Secretary
Bill Washburn at the annual Association
meeting: “He is the most dedicated, hard-
est working human being I know, and his
only problem is that he worries too much
... He does a magnificent job of being the
bridge in the communications gap _ be-
tween the campus and the community and
the campus and the alumni, and it’s not
an easy task.” Clarke called him ‘Willy
Washburn,” explaining “I can call him
Willy because I am two years older than
he is.” Incidentally, his wife Libby always
calls him “William.” But then she’s young-
er than he is.

Healey’s
Jefferson

= Washington and Lee’s portrait by Healy
of Thomas Jefferson is now hanging in the
Governor’s Mansion in Richmond. It is a
loan to Gov. Linwood Holton, a W&L
alumnus, who knew where to turn for one
of the best portraits ever painted of the
great Tom. The Governor and Mrs. Hol-
ton gave a reception in May to “unveil”
the painting. So W&L is one up on the
Wahoos again. Jefferson, you recall, found-
ed the University of Virginia.

a Joe Lyles, coach of baseball and soccer,
talks a lot like Casey Stengel. He has been
known to tell his men “to bunch out” and
“to pair off in three’s.” When he took the
W&L baseball team to the Astrodome in

 

Houston, he looked up at the roof that
wards off wind and sun and said: ‘There
will be no sun-blown homeruns in here.”

a Sports Illustrated carried the following
items in one of its May issues: “At Wash-
ington and Lee they’ve finally got that
skeleton out of the closet. Back in 1872,
two years after the death of Robert E. Lee,
the general’s favorite horse, Traveller, also
died. For many years the horse’s assembled
bones were on display at the Lee Museum
—folks used to enjoy that sort of thing—
but then they were put into storage in
1963. Now the skeleton has been suitably
and finally buried, complete with marker,
in a spot, we are happy to report, not far
from the Lee family crypt.” It is not
known exactly why Sports Illustrated fav-
ored us in this way. It could be because
John Hughes, the curator of Lee Chapel, is
also W&L’s sports information director. Or
it could be that Traveller did indeed have
human qualities. The magazine ran the
itera in its “People” section.

« Washington and Lee has many tradi-
tions, and one is that it never rains on
Commencement Day—well, almost never.
Anyway, the sun was shining brightly on
the day of the Baccalaureate service, the
day before commencement. University
Marshal James H. Starling told the faculty
at its meeting that morning that the Pres-
byterians were in charge of the weather
for Baccalaureate, but it was up to the
Episcopalians to keep the air dry for com-
mencement. ‘They did all right. It was a
beautiful day, sunny and warm. Still, the
Episcopalians barely made it. About a
half hour after the exercises ended, the sky
growled and lightning crackled. But, lo,
just a few drops of rain fell on the camp-
us. The downpour was elsewhere.

Commencement 197]

Washington and Lee graduated 290
seniors in commencement exercises on
June 4. President Huntley, in his remarks,
declared “that Washington and Lee’s fu-
ture, accompanied by hard work and de-
votion which has been so much a part of
its past, can and will be a full one, a suc-
cessful one, a relevant one.”

Honorary degrees were awarded to A.
Linwood Holton, Governor of Virginia;
Jerome D. Holland, U. S. Ambassador to
Sweden and former president of Hampton
Institute; Dr. Daniel Blain, director of the
Pennsylvania State Hospital in Philadel-
phia and professor of clinical psychiatry at
the University of Pennsylvania; and Ed-
win Hyde, a leading banking and business
executive in Virginia, chairman of Miller
gnd Rhoads, the Richmond-based depart-
ment stores.

The Doctor of Laws degree was con-
ferred upon Gov. Holton, Ambassador
Holland, and Mr. Hyde. The Doctor of
Science degree went to Dr. Blain.

Gov. Holton is a 1944 graduate of
Washington and Lee, and in 1969 he be-
came the first Republican elected Gover-
nor of Virginia since Reconstruction. Dr.
Blain is a former president of the Ameri-
can Psychiatric Association and is a fifth-
generation Washington and Lee alum-
nus, having graduated in 1921. His son,
Daniel Blain, Jr., Class of 1963, was the
sixth generation of the family to gradu-
ate from the University. Dr. Holland,
who headed Hampton Institute for 10
years and was president of Delaware State
College before that, is one of the most
active American ambassadors in Europe
and has effectively improved U.S.-Swedish
relations which were severely strained be-
fore his arrival in that country last year.
Mr. Hyde is a director or trustee of more
than a dozen state and local commissions

and has devoted much of his time and sup-
port to community and charitable institu-
tions, including leadership within the Vir-
ginia Foundation for Independent Col-
leges.

Among the graduates, 48 from the
School of Law received the Juris Doctor
degree. The B. S. with Special Attain-
ments in Commerce went to 29; and the
B. A. with majors in economics or polli-
tics went to 39. The B. S. was awarded to
39 in the College, and the B. A. to 140.

Earlier in the morning, 27 ROTC gra-
duates were commissioned second lieuten-
ants in the U. S. Army Reserve in cere-
monies in Lee Chapel. The speaker was
Gen. Lucius D. Clay, recently appointed
commander-in-chief of the Air Force in
the Pacific. His son, Lucius D. Clay, III,
was among the W&L graduates receiving
a commission. Four ROTC cadets were

commissioned earlier in the year and six
others will be commissioned after com-
pleting ROTC training camp.

Baccalaureate services were held the
day before. Dr. David W. Sprunt, associ-
ate dean of students and University chap-
lain, was the speaker.

Francis M. Lawrence, president of the
Student Body, spoke for the graduating
class. He noted what he believes to be a
heartening trend at Washington and Lee,
a rededication to a philosophy of faith and
trust that has its roots in a personal code
of honor established in the time of Robert
E. Lee. Because of this, he said, there is
no need for the codification of rules that
for a time stipulated how students should
behave. The result, he said, is a com-
munity based more on trust and honor
than on threats and rules.

This year’s graduating senior with the

 

Gen. Clay and son, Lucius, III, after commissioning ceremony.

WeL

 

 

* ital oe : — % % - +. oo
a “ae * wee >

s ge
tt kl wpe *

ae

es bth ahi P
—

woes

7
Fa
#

President Huntley (second from left) with honorary degree recipients: Ambassador Holland, Gov. Holton, Mr. Hyde, and Dr. Blain.

highest academic average was Richard S.
Kampf, of Scarsdale, N.Y. He had a grade-
point average approaching 4.00—the equi-
valent of all A’s.

The winner of the Algernon Sydney
Sullivan Medallion, voted by the faculty,
was John M. McCardell, Jr. of Hagers-
town, Md. The award goes to that student
“who excels in high ideals of living, in
spiritual qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others.”

President Huntley said that, in a time
when confidence in higher education has
been shaken, it is clear “that no one in-
stitution, no matter how large or how
wealthy, can hope to provide the full range
of choice which our complex civilization
must have from its education system, and
therefore that new patterns of education
and new kinds of institutions must be al-
lowed and encouraged to emerge—not in
place of the patterns that now exist but
in addition to them.”

He said such an expanding diversifica-
tion of American higher education will
mean, among other things, “that each in-
stitution will, to a greater degree than is
now the case, have to provide its own rea-
son for existence, its own internal justifi-
cation for doing things the way it does.”

Washington and Lee, he said, in the
future as in the past, will not be afraid
of change, but such changes that occur
“will continue to be consistent with the

July, 1971

basic educational objectives and ideals of
the school.”

He said the School of Law “will, with
renewed vigor and effort, seek to prepare
its students for professional careers which
are characterized by competence, imagina-
tion, and social awareness, fully cognizant
of the fact that the profession upon which
they embark will have a profound and
direct influence upon our nation’s ability
to fulfill its ancient promise and to achieve
its highest ideals.

“In its undergraduate schools, in the
College and the School of Commerce,
Washington and Lee will devote all of its
considerable talents and its growing re-
sources to continuing and strengthening
its commitment to provide for a relatively
small but diverse student body a liberal
educational opportunity of the kind that
enhances the likelihood that our gradu-
ates will find for themselves lives of per-
sonal fulfillment, lives marked by char-
acteristics of rationality, perspective, and
unselfishness—characteristics which in the
final accounting are the only ones which
can bring that quality of life which has
been man’s oldest quest.

“The preparation which our students
receive here will allow them to select ca-
reers for themselves in a variety of fields,
but we will justify all that we do in the
light of the overiding liberal educational
objectives. ...

“We shall not abandon our long-held
conviction that the mind of man, discip-
lined and tempered, will enhance his
humanity and allow him to achieve his
noblest aspirations.”

 

Colleges Honor Huntley

 

President Huntley was awarded an
honorary Doctor of Laws degree by Ran-
dolph-Macon College at Ashland at grad-
uation exercises on May 30. On June 7, he
delivered the commencement address at
Wake Forest University in Winston-Salem.
Wake Forest also bestowed an honorary
LL.D. upon him.

Both institutions cited President Hunt-
ley for his leadership in the field of legal
and undergraduate education. He was
dean of the W&L School of Law before
becoming president of the University. In
1969, Gov. Holton named him to the Vir-
ginia State Board of Education.

Huntley, a native of Winston-Salem,
is a member of a family important in the
history of Wake Forest. His great-grand-
father, Dr. William Royall, was the col-
lege’s first professor of English, and his
grandfather, Robert Royall, was a trustee
for almost 50 years. His mother, Mrs. B. F.
Huntley, lives in Winston-Salem, and his
brother, Dr. Benjamin F. Huntley, III, a
1946 graduate of Washington and Lee, is
a leading Winston-Salem physician.

by Sidney M. B. Coulling

Rational intellect vs. the new sensibility:
Phi Beta Kappa and the cultural crisis

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of English, presi-
dent of Gamma of Virginia of Phi Beta Kappa, and a
1946 graduate of Washington and Lee, made the follow-
ing remarks at the 1971 Phi Beta Kappa initiation ban-
quet. His talk contributes to a better understanding of
the role of learning in today’s society.

In 1911 George V had recently ascended the British
throne. Nicholas II was czar of Russia, and Friedrich
Wilhelm was Emperor of Germany and King of Prussia.
William Howard Taft was President of the United States
and Woodrow Wilson was already an active candidate for
the Democratic nomination. Theodore Dreiser published
Jennie Gerhardt that year, and Edith Wharton published
Ethan Frome. In the World Series the Philadelphia Ath-
letics defeated the New York Giants, four games to two.
And in Lexington, Virginia, the Washington and Lee
football team was rebuilding, as the sportswriters put it,
after a season which had been marked, according to a
cryptic and ominous note in the Calyx, by “hostile agita-
tion caused by the great number of casualties” the preced-
ing year. Even so, the team had still managed to defeat
the University of North Carolina, 5 to o, before losing to
Alabama in the final game of the year, 3 to o.

In Lexington also during the year 1911 a group of
five members of the Washington and Lee faculty, four of
them graduates of the Johns Hopkins and one an alumnus
of Williams, formed the nucleus of a group which, that
spring, secured a Phi Beta Kappa charter for the Univer-
sity. These five, together with a trustee, became the char-
ter members of the Gamma of Virginia Chapter. In
March they elected 41 foundation members, including
three United States Senators, the President of the Univer-
sity of ‘Tennessee, Col. Robert E. Lee Jr., and an alumnus
to whom more than one person in this audience feels an
indebtedness, John M. Glenn. In April 10 more founda-
tion members were elected, including the superintendent
of the Virginia Military Institute and several citizens of
Lexington whose names are familiar to residents of this

 

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling: “I have not become president of
Gamma of Virginia for the purpose of composing its obituary,
nor would I have described the problems facing it if I did not
have solutions to them.”

8

 

 

Phi Beta Kappa

 

which they presumably encourage is unrelated to the real
world in which we live; that they promote the acquisition
of useless information and reward those who are engaged
in its accumulation. In a recent article Nathan Glazer has
described as a “sophisticated argument” the thesis that
“tested academic ability is conceivably not related to any
socially useful talents.” And only this past summer a
medical doctor wrote impatiently to The Key Reporter,
“Phi Beta Kappa, if it is to be meaningful, should get in-
volved in life as it is lived today and not just address itself
to very small audiences on very highly specialized sub-
jects.”

This questioning of the Society’s aims and functions is
perhaps the reason why the same issue of The Key Report-
er contained a Phi Beta Kappa address which an historian,
Mrs. Ewart Lewis, delivered 15 years ago at Oberlin.
‘What is the point of Phi Beta Kappa?” she began. It ap-
parently exists only to perpetuate itself, she answered, and
then went on to argue that the point of it was completely
ceremonial, ritualistic, symbolic. But this is clearly not
enough to satisfy our activist friends, as I learned a num-
ber of years ago when a student from one of the late Wil-
liam Chaffin’s public speaking classes came to ask me
what Phi Beta Kappa did. He was preparing a speech, he
informed me, on useless campus organizations, and Phi
Beta Kappa stood at the top of his list. When I told him
that we elected members, heard an annual address from
a distinguished speaker, initiated the members and honor-
ed them at a banquet, and once every several years spon-
sored a visiting scholar, he asked with incredulity, “And
is that all you do?” When honesty compelled me to con-
fess that it was, he left my office with the self-satisfied
smile of one whose initial judgment has been confirmed.

But of all the threats to Phi Beta Kappa as it has been
traditionally conceived, probably none is more pervasive
than that of the so-called counter-culture, with its eleva-
tion of instinct over intellect, mysticism over reason, con-
sciousness over scholarship, sensitivity over discipline. The
signs of this new movement are everywhere around us,
and they have already made their presence known within
the Society. While one would be hesitant to say that
Berkeley is the bellwether of American academic life, it is
nevertheless true that trends there often anticipate larger
trends across the nation. ‘There is reason to pause, con-

10

sequently, on the reflection that last year some of the
students at California who were elected to membership
declined to accept because of their conviction that educa-
tion by “‘sensing’’ was more important than education by
“learning.”

By this time our initiates may have concluded that
they are the victims of a cruel hoax. They have been con-
gratulated on having won an empty honor, bilked of their
money for the purchase of a key which is to be kept care-
fully concealed, and trapped into spending a Saturday
evening at a ceremonial dinner when they might have
gone down the road. But of course to draw such a con-
clusion would be a mistake. I have not become president
of the Gamma of Virginia Chapter for the purpose of
composing its obituary, nor would I have described the
problems facing it if I did not have solutions to them. I
have simply been employing one of the most ancient of
rhetorical devices: leading you to the brink of disaster
only to rescue you at the last moment and escort you to a
safe vantage-point from which to envision new horizons.

We may all agree, I think, that those who have been
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa this evening would have
been elected to membership regardless of the method of
selection employed. And it goes without saying, of course,
that the same assertion applies to everyone else in this
room. Still, we would have to agree also that academic
and curricular changes in this country have made the task
of selection more challenging than it once was. In the
future we may have to be more flexible, more daring,
more imaginative in our search for those who deserve elec-
tion to membership. Among the most significant conclu-
sions of the Pass-Fail Committee, to which I earlier re-
ferred, is the statement that “in the selection of members
due attention [should] be paid to factors other than the
grade point average, such as evidence of genuine intellec-
tual interest and distinguished scholarship.” Precisely
how these are to be determined is an obvious difficulty,
and a crucial one. But it is one that we shall have to face.

ust as we shall have to face also the question of social
responsibility. Not that this is anything new; or that we

 

“I would advise our initiates to hold onto their keys even if they
never conspicuously display them, and I see nothing
inappropriate in congratulating them on their achievement.”

WeL

a

a ae

 

Ss

oad

2
_

a8 - - 7 oy
es nip 7
-
- aaa

ae

be

 

Phi Beta Kappa

 

I believe that in the present times it can and must be. It
can serve as a force of reason, of sanity, of calm judgment,
of respect for evidence and for logic.

Among the less reassuring signs of the times is the
sheer emotionalism that is brought to bear on some of our
difficulties. Americans, a writer in The New Yorker re-
cently observed, seen incapable of discussing any problem
except on “the single level of atrocity.” An English critic,
in a devastating review of The Greening of America, de-
clared that we debate all our issues with a “mindless” and
“self-dramatizing intensity.” In his parting remarks at
the White House last December, Daniel Moynihan spoke
of the hysteria with which we lurch “from crisis to crisis
with the attention span of a five-year-old.” Under such
circumstances, can anyone doubt that there is a useful role
to be played by a Society which traditionally has sought
to emulate the calm objectivity of the Greeks?

And then there are the forces of a radical subjectivity
which have assaulted academic life in particular. Several
years ago Daniel Bell described this challenge of sensibil-
ity, of private experience, as the most significant challenge
facing American colleges and universities, and last Sep-
tember the chancellor of Indiana University made it the
subject of his address to the Triennial Council. In this
new movement are elements which all of us can welcome,
and it is not my purpose to condemn it. But at the same
time one should recognize that by itself it is inadequate
and that it needs a contrary force to check and order it.
Art does not always tell the truth, Lionel Trilling once
observed, nor does it always give us the best kind of truth.
It can even generate falsehood and accustom us to them,
and therefore, he concluded, it calls for the higher judg-
ment of the rational intellect.

This radical subjectivism of the present era is not a
new phenomenon. In many of its manifestations it bears a

striking resemblance to the Romanticism of the late

eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries, and in particu-
lar to the reflections of one of the most appealing figures
in that movement, John Keats. Like present-day subjec-
tives, Keats asserted the primacy of the individual con-
sciousness. The imagination, he said, was like Adam’s
dream; “he awoke and found it truth.” And like the mod-
ern prophets of a new sensibility, Keats espoused an epis-
temology in which the sensuous faculties replaced the in-

12

tellectual. “O for a Life of Sensations rather than of
Thoughts!” he exclaimed. We would enjoy ourselves in
the hereafter, he conjectured, by repeating in a finer tone
what we called happiness on earth; but he warned his
friend Benjamin Bailey that such a future was reserved
for those who delighted in sensation rather than hungered
after truth. Axioms in philosophy, he remarked, “are not
axioms until they are proved upon our pulses.”

But it was not by scorning truth and reveling in sensa-
tion that Keats became one of the major poets of the
English language. The comments I have quoted are the
familiar ones always cited to show his sensuous side.
There was another side, however, and a more splendid
one. It is nowhere better illustrated than in the compari-
son he once drew between poetry and philosophy. Poetry,
he said, “‘is not so fine a thing as philosophy—for the same
reason that an eagle is not so fine a thing as a truth.” Here,
I think, is the final judgment to be passed on the espousers
of a new consciousness, a new sensitivity—and it is pro-
nounced by one of their own.

This is why I am not doubtful about the future of
Phi Beta Kappa. I would advise our initiates to hold onto
their keys even if they never conspicuously display them,
and I see nothing inappropriate in congratulating them
on their achievement. Though we are confronted by a
counter-culture which challenges all our basic assump-
tions, we have it on the highest authority—that of the most
sensuous poet since Spenser, the most felicitous poet
since Shakespeare—that poetry is not so fine a thing as
philosophy, for the same reason that an eagle is not so
fine a thing as a truth.

On this note I should like to conclude the observance
of our sixtieth anniversary. At this sedate age it would
perhaps be unseemly for us to celebrate until three in the
morning, and, besides, the prohibition passed in 1912 and
perpetuated for 59 years gives little cause for rejoicing
beyond a sober hour. With my warm congratulations to
this year’s initiates, then, and with the wishes of Phi Beta
Kappa for their continued success; with my sincere
thanks to all of you who have helped make this a pleasant
—and for me memorable—occasion; and with the wishes,
expressed on behalf of the entire Chapter, that Gamma
of Virginia may have many happy returns, I declare the
Phi Beta Kappa ceremonies of this day to be concluded.

WeL

5
}

 

Campus News

 

Scholarship program established
in memory of Basil Manly

A major new endowed scholarship pro-
gram has been established in memory of
Basil Manly, a 1906 graduate of the Uni-
versity and a distinguished government
economist, corporate executive, and au-
thor.

The Basil Manly Memorial Scholar-
ships will be awarded competitively to en-
tering students on the basis of personal
character, academic promise, and financial
need, President Huntley said in announc-
ing the program.

Prospective Manly Scholars will visit
the University on Scholarship Weekend,
when competition begins for the school’s
most prestigious scholarships. The week-
end is held each spring, and a select group
of outstanding students who will enter
Washington and Lee as freshmen the fol-
lowing fall visit the campus for personal
interviews with the financial aid com-
mittee. The first Manly Scholarships will
be awarded to students entering the Uni-
versity as freshmen this September.

The new program was established by
Mr. Manly’s widow, daughter, and grand-
sons. Basil Manly, a native of Greenville,
S.C., was named a fellow in political sci-
ence at the University of Chicago after
earning his A.B. degree from Washing-
ton and Lee. He was awarded the M.A. de-
gree from Chicago in 1910.

He served as chairman of the Federal
Power Commission for three years during
World War II, as co-chairman with Wil-
liam Howard Taft of the War Labor
Board in the first World War, and drafted
two of the most comprehensive and im-
portant labor reports in this century.

His four-volume Jron and Steel Report,
issued in 1912, laid the foundation for
abolishing the seven-day work week and
for adopting the eight-hour day, and is
recognized as the most significant investi-

July, 1971

gation of a single American industry.

The Child Labor Report, issued by the
U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics, with which
he was an expert, and known as the
“Manly Report,” was 11 volumes in length
and, with an edition of 100,000 copies, was
the most widely circulated such govern-
ment document ever issued.

Following issuance of the two land-
mark investigative documents, Manly
served as director of investigation for the
U.S. Commission on Industrial Relations
and subsequently as an economist for the
Federal Power Commission and for the
states of New York and Wisconsin.

In 1931 he drafted a new Corrupt
Practices Act while serving as special coun-
sel to the U.S. Senate Committee on Cam-
paign Expenditures, and in World War
II was named by President Roosevelt as
vice chairman of the National Defense
Power Committee. In 1944 he was appoint-
ed supervising commissioner with the Na-
tural Gas Investigation Agency, and short-
ly thereafter he retired from governmental
service to become vice president and di-
rector of the Southern Natural Gas Co.

In addition to government work, Mr.
Manly served as economic adviser to the
Newspaper Enterprise Association and as
special correspondent for several news-
papers, including the Brooklyn Eagle, the
New York World and the Newark Even-
ing News.

His wife, who shared in establishing
the new scholarship program at Wash-
ington and Lee in his memory, is the for-
mer Miss Marie Merriman Bradley. They
were married in Lexington Dec. 15, 1912.
He died in Washington, D.C., May 11,
1950.

Mr. Manly was the son of the Rev. and
Mrs. Charles Manly. The Rev. Mr. Manly
was president of Furman University from

 

BASIL MANLY

1881 until 1897, and subsequently served
as pastor of the Lexington Baptist Church
from 1903 until 1914. The Rev. Mr.
Manly’s father, Basil Manly, had: himself
been a university president (Alabama).

Shortly after his death in 1924, the
congregation of the Lexington Baptist
Church renamed the church Manly Mem-
orial, in recognition of the “unusual love
and esteem” in which its members held
him.

 

Major Library Grant

 

The National Endowment for the Hu-
manities and the Council on Library
Resources have joined in making a $50,000
grant to Washington and Lee for an in-
novative five-year program designed to in-

13

>.
ee aos:
oe
a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4 Peyton E. Rice, Jr., above, graduated roo
years after his maternal great-grandfather,

, Peyton D. English, seated right below,
graduated with honors from Washington

> and Lee.

}
|
| ~ July, 1971

lish and father of Peyton, Jr., is a 1940
graduate of Washington and Lee and
owner of the Rice Employment Agency in
Little Rock.

At W&L, young Rice was secretary of
Alpha Epsilon Delta premedical fraternity
and a member of the swimming team.

 

Geologists at Work

 

Detailed geological studies and analy-
ses of Virginia localities, prepared by two
Washington and Lee professors, have
been published by the state Division of
Mineral Resources. Dr. Samuel J. Kozak
is the author of Geology of the Elliot
Knob, Deerfield, Craigsville, and Augusta
Springs Quadrangles, and Dr. Odell Mc-
Guire is the author of Geology of the
Eagle Rock, Strom Oriskany, and Salts-
bury Quadrangles.

Both studies, the result of several
years’ investigation, mapping, and field
research, contain exhaustively detailed
analyses of the geology of the various
areas. They are parts of a long-range
statewide project undertaken by the Min-
eral Resources unit, in which Washing-
ton and Lee’s geology department plays a
substantial role. The department has pro-
vided the major share of work on the pro-
ject in the region. Copies of the several
studies are available through the Mineral
Resources Division in Charlottesville.

 

J-School Reaccredited

 

 

The American Council on Education
for Journalism has reaccredited the Uni-
versity’s department of journalism and
communications for a five-year period.
The action reaffirms Washington and
Lee’s status as the only institution with an
accredited journalism program in Virginia.

The accreditation came after detailed
analysis by the council of course offerings
in journalism, the quality and scope of its
faculty, and other phases of operation of
the department, and following a regular
visitation by representatives of the organi-
zation. Washington and Lee’s is one of the
smallest journalism programs to be ac-
credited by the Council. Fewer than 70
are accredited in the nation.

The University has received full ap-
proval continually since accreditation be-
gan in 1948, according to Prof. Paxton
Davis, head of the department.

 

Busy Debate Team

 

Two debate teams from Washington
and Lee took eighth and 10th places in
the New York University Debate ‘Tourna-
ment, in competition against teams from
64 colleges and universities from across
the nation.

Novice debaters Thomas Peard, a fresh-
man from Atlanta, and Lawrence E. Evans,
Jr., a sophomore from San Felipe, Tex.,
took eighth in their division of the tour-
ney, compiling a 4 and 2 record. Co-cap-
tains Robert Bruyere of Houston and M.
Anderson Bradshaw of Norge, Va., both
sophomores, also achieved a 4 and 2 rec-
ord, taking 10th place in their division.

The NYU tournament, one of the most
competitive and respected annual debate
meets, brought to a close a winning season
for Washington and Lee’s debaters, who—
though almost all underclassmen—carried
home three trophies and several designa-
tions as best team or speaker. In all, the
W&L debaters participated in about 15
tournaments from Florida to New York.

Other active members of the team in-
cluded Cal Seaton, a junior, and Lenny
Kaufman, Brian McNeil, and Averill

15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OS

 

ee —

- - oe

a -

ee a ee
POET BETA RP ge RT
.

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
   

 

-as_-—s- Williams was one of the finalists in
he the Burks eompetitio? on

  

po-

1 to neue in a ayy

  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

   
   

“eight yeu une before ‘being ar. O “
rginia, was honored by the Un niversity’s “s inted mayor to fill an onexpined erm wucdent 1 go to another «
Bookstore in “April, j just before his autobio- | and later T being elec ted year, acc prvuamed to De an Willi
graphy was published, : & secon The bigge

TT e new book , Man From the 2 Valley:
femoirs of a 20th Canby, Virginian, was

   
 

    

  
    
    
  

 

 

 

 
 
    

unities for students 2 at tm
i s col colleges

J uly, 1971,

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

 

a

oe em re ee
es -

oe 7

 

=

 

ee

 

 

 

Traveller is laid to rest
near the grave of his master

The skeleton of Traveller, General
Lee’s faithful “Confederate grey,” has been
buried near the tomb of his master. A
granite headstone, a gift of the Virginia
Division of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy, marks the location of the
grave on the south side of Lee Chapel a
few feet from the crypt where General Lee
and members of his family are buried.

The marker was presented to the Uni-
versity by Mrs. Dewey Wood of Front
Royal, Va., past president of the Virginia
Division, UDC, during a brief ceremony
on May 8. President Huntley accepted the
marker on behalf of the University. He
told the concern expressed by many alum-
ni and friends of Washington and Lee
when during the restoration of Lee Chapel
in 1962 Traveller’s skeleton was removed
from display in the Lee Museum and plac-
ed in permanent storage. He read the pro-
logue to a poem sent to the University in
1965 by a distinguished alumnus:

“For

skeleton of Traveller, General Lee’s horse,

generations the _ rearticulated
stood in the basement of Lee Chapel at
Washington and Lee University just a few
steps from the mortuary crypt of Robert
E. Lee. There thousands of students felt
its mellowed, yellowed, smooth bones with
affection—a tangible link with the past.
Some dared to desecrate its remains with
the egotism expressed by their patronymic
scrawls. Now even Traveller’s skeleton has
transmigrated to parts unknown. Senti-
mental eyebrows are elevated and deep
concern is felt because of its disappear-
ance.”

The President said, ““Among other rea-
sons, I am delighted to accept the dedica-
tion of this marker at Traveller’s burial
place to relieve that sense of concern and
to restore all who have been concerned
about Traveller to a sense that he has now

July, 1971

et

a es
ed a

~
ast ‘ee?
s ad 5 %
ee 7
4. ee i
” gle ¢ if
“ %

Ls

been finally layed to a resting place near
his master.”

He noted that Traveller has a special
place in the hearts of all Virginians and
all admirers of General Lee, and “I think
an even more special place in the hearts of
all who have known anything about Wash-
ington and Lee University.”

A special guest at the ceremony was
Col. Jack Maury, a direct descendant of
the Virginia family which gave Traveller
to General Lee for the nominal sum of $1.

The iron gray horse, with black mane
and tail, became the General’s favorite. He
was with the General throughout the
Civil War and carried him through many
battles. When the General came to Lex-
ington to head Washington College, he
came on Traveller. He often spoke and

, 3
ae * * , J -
‘s :. » C4 : F 7 aS
P sd . : a
es ’ a ie 3 "3 led Pe
<3. ‘ a ae ah, C eae 3
ad & ra ‘ ae P
a Po 7, 7 ie 3 F F
he hy Fg a eS nF

The famous Miley photograph of Gen. Lee on Traveller.

hae Se 4 .
* oe &s* 2 6 :
s Ae? 3. 4 a
ORME ER he

 

Bet

- SW a a nee 4 aS si
+ : , « “gt
4 t : $ a 4 b
Pe, Oe + pee est 4
jf iam Z eC) a + 3 ' ;
‘ sa 4
- .  # PLP . ALS

 

wrote of his affection for the horse. “How
is Traveller?” he once wrote to his family
while on a trip. “Tell him I miss him
dreadfully and have repented of our sepa-
ration but once and that is the whole time
since we parted.”

Traveller outlived his master by two
years, dying of tetanus after stepping on
a rusty nail. He was 15 years old. His re-
mains were exhumed in 1907 from their
original campus gravesite, and the skeleton
placed on display.

Now Traveller has been returned to
the earth in keeping with Stephen Vin-
cent Benet’s tribute to Traveller in John
Brown’s Body: “. .. They bred such horses.
in Virginia then, Horses that were remem-
bered after death/and buried not so far
from Christian ground... .”

19

Athletics

Generals’ lacrosse team becomes
a national power during 1971 season

Washington and Lee’s lacrosse team
became a national power this spring when
the Generals put together finesse and
speed to fashion an 11-2 record, finish
ninth in a coaches’ poll ranking the top
schools in the nation, and share the cham-
pionship of the South Atlantic division
with ‘Towson State.

Head coach Dick Szlasa’s squad also
placed five players on the Little All-Ameri-
ca team and five performers on the all-
division list, and Szlasa himself was select-
ed to the coaching staff of the North-
South game held this year at Tufts Uni-
versity in Boston.

The 11-2 record was the best ever for a
W&L lacrosse team, representing wins over
North Carolina (10-3), Duke (16-2), Ran-
dolph-Macon (14-8), Baltimore University
(17-3), Washington College (7-2), Balti-
more Loyola (17-1), Maryland-Baltimore
County (21-8), Dartmouth (13-3), Wesleyan
(13-6), Connecticut (10-1), and a team of
touring English college all-stars (13-11).

The only losses were to Navy, 10-8, and
Virginia, 13-4, At the time of those games,
Navy was the nation’s third-ranked team
and Virginia was No. 1. The Generals led
the Naval Academy, 8-6, at one point, but
the Middies came on with a pressure de-
fense that led to their come-from-behind
victory. At Charlottesville, W&L took a
3-2 first quarter lead, but then quickly fell
under a blistering Wahoo attack and
stingy defense.

In leading their division for the first
time, the Generals went undefeated in
conference play with a 7-0 record. Co-
champion Towson, which ended with a
9-0 mark in league games and a 13-1 over-
all record, was not on the W&L schedule
this spring but will be next year.

Named to the Little All-America first
team were senior defenseman Billy Brum-

20

ee: ec eT ee

ee en eee sail _

ote

te ee ee ee ean or

 

Sophomore crease attackman Sam Englehart scores against Navy.

back and sophomore attackman Sam En- scored 48 points on 45 goals and three
glehart. Brumback was a first-team selec- assists. Senior midfielder Whit Morrill,
tion last year, and Englehart this year who went to the North-South game, was

WeL

 

 

Bill Inge
tion list.

197 shots, turning |

 

 

 

 

- - |
- - .
| \

       

 

 

 

 

Bierer is appointed

 

first Alumni Fund

 

Chairman

 

 

First Alumni Fund chairman will be James H. Bierer, Class of
1940, from Pittsburgh, Pa.

22

Washington and Lee has its first Alumni Fund chair-
man. He is James H. Bierer, 40, of Pittsburgh, president
and chief executive officer of Pittsburgh Corning Corp.
and chairman of the board of Pittsburgh Corning of
Europe.

As chairman of the annual giving campaign, Bierer
will direct the fund-raising effort in close cooperation with
the University’s development, alumni, and publications
offices. He will help in the recruitment of class agents and
of metropolitan area chairmen and represent the Alumni
Fund in communications with alumni and alumni fund
workers.

He was appointed by the Alumni Board of Directors
at its May meeting. Charles F. Clarke, president of the
Alumni Association, prefaced his announcement of Bier-
er’s selection this way: “These are perilous times for pri-
vate universities. The raising of funds from the alumni is
essential to the survival of the University. So this year the
University has decided and the Board of Directors has
agreed to appoint a chairman of the Alumni Fund.” He
praised Bierer’s willingness to take a difficult job and
added: “He proposes to be more than just a waxwork
chairman, and he will work hard at the task. We on the
Alumni Board of Directors are grateful to him.”

President Huntley described the board’s selection of
Bierer as “an important forward step in long-range plan-
ning for the fund,” saying that “Mr. Bierer will bring the
talent and energies of an experienced administrator to
the organization and operation of our program.”

Bierer majored in both geology and physics at Wash-
ington and Lee and holds the M.B.A. degree from Har-
vard University. He became affiliated with the Corning
Glass Works in 1946, advancing to manager of marketing
for the corperation in 1959 and general manager of the
consumer products division and vice president by 1965.
He assumed his present post with Pittsburgh Corning in
1968. He is a past president of the American Glassware
Manufacturers Association and has been active in sup-
port of the Boy Scouts of America since 1930 and is cur-
rently a member of the National Council.

Bierer will begin work immediately in reviewing
plans for the 1971-72 Alumni Fund program in coopera-
tion with members of the Washington and Lee develop-
ment staff.

Wel

 

/ 7
= 7
re re
- ee

_*
ao

-
te

7

 

 

 

form of higher education, has much been dedicated all the
future ahead of it. There are good reasons way in which this mis
perhaps for prophets of doom to pro- change—has changed. ’
claim ‘that the end is not far away for

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-_

+.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Richard H. Turrell, 49, of Short Hills,
N. J., was elected president of the Alumni
Board of Directors at its May meeting. He
succeeds Charles F. Clarke, Jr., ’38, a
Cleveland, Ohio, attorney.

Turrell is senior vice president of
Fiduciary Trust Company of New York,
who was treasurer of the Alumni Associa-
tion last year. He is also chairman of the
Steering Committee of the Robert E.
Lee Associates.

A. Christian Compton, ’50, of Rich-
mond was named vice president of the
board, succeeding Emil C. Rassman, III,
41, of Midland, Texas. T. Hal Clarke, ’38,
of Washington, D. C., was elected treasur-
er, succeeding Turrell. William C. Wash-
burn, ’40, of Lexington was re-elected sec-
retary.

Named to four-year terms on the alum-
ni board were Richard D. Haynes, ’58, of
Dallas, ‘Texas, an attorney; J. Alvin Phil-
pott, 45, of Lexington, N. C., vice presi-
dent of the United Furniture Division of
Burlington Industries; and Everett Tuck-
er, Jr., 34, of Little Rock, Ark., president
of the Industrial Development Co.

They replaced Charles Clarke, Joe F.
Bear, ’33, of Montgomery, Ala., and Ed-
ward H. Ould, ’29, of Roanoke, Va., whose
terms expired.

Named to the University Committee
on Intercollegiate Athletics was Thomas
W. Goodwin, ’62, of Roanoke, a bank and
trust officer. He succeeds Richard W.
Smith, ’41, of Staunton, Va.

Members of the nominating committee
were William King Self, 39, of Marks,
Miss., chairman, James H. Bierer, ’40, of
Pittsburgh, Pa., and Robert M. White, ’38,
of Mexico, Mo.

Alumni weekend brought the reunions
of the academic and law classes of 1921,
1931, 1946, 1956, and 1961, and the Old

July, 1971

| Turrell is named president
‘ of W&L Alumni Association

Guard, those who were at Washington and
Lee more than 50 years ago. These classes
participated in a full round of banquets,
campus tours, cocktail parties, and attend-
ed a lacrosse game in which Washington
and Lee defeated Loyola of Maryland, 17
to l.

The reunions coincided with Law Day
activities, including the John Randolph

     

R. H. ‘TURRELL

  

Tucker Lecture delivered by the Hon. J.
Edward Lumbard, chief judge of the Unit-
ed States Court of Appeals for the 2nd
Circuit. His lecture on “Trial by Jury and
More Speedy Justice” will be published in
the Washington and Lee Law Review. The
finals in the Burks Moot Court Competi-
tion were also held along with the annual

meeting of the Law Alumni Association.

   
   

Members of the Old Guard and the Class of 1921—seated left to right: FE. Jackson, ’21,

S. L. Raines, ’21, R. N. Latture, ’15, J. T. Gray, ’11, T. F. Raines,’14, H. K. Gibbons,
’21, W. Wisdom, ’21, E. W. Poindexter, ’21; standing: J. L. Patterson, ’21, D. Blain,

’21, G. Moss, ’21, B. James, ’21, J. F. Bain, ’21, J. R. Stuart, ’21, W. A. Gibbons, ’21, and
B. Dawson, ’21.

25

Chapter News

 

 

D.C. alumni

honor Holton
and Huntley

Virginia Gov. Holton, ’44, and Presi-

 

 

 

dent Huntley, ’50, and their wives were
guests of honor at a reception and dinner
in Arlington sponsored by the Washing-
ton area alumni chapter.

A large group of alumni attended the
meeting in the Chesapeake Room of the
Marriott Twin Bridges Motor Hotel and
heard Charles McDowell, ’48, columnist
for the Richmond Times-Dispatch, be-
come, what he called, “shamelessly senti-
mental” about the campus on which he
grew up and where he attended college.
His father, the late Charles R. McDowell,
taught law at W&L for 41 years.

Typical of the stories McDowell told
was how Huntley broke the news of his
being elected president of the University
to his parents.

Huntley came by the house and found
the McDowells at dinner. “He leaned
against a wall in the kitchen and sort of
slid on down to the floor,’’ McDowell re-
called. They talked about various things
for awhile, and finally Huntley, hunkered
on the floor, told the news.

“My mother didn’t say anything for a
moment,” McDowell said. “My father
took a bite of steak and then he said,
‘Katherine, get the President a chair’.”

McDowell praised Gov. Holton for his
moderate approach to politics in a era of
rapid and upsetting change. He said Hol-
ton avoided the approach of “playing

26

UNG A bed |

 

 

Columnist McDowell relating stories about Gov. Holton and President Huniley.

havoc and getting upsetter than the peo-
ple who are upset.” Instead, he chose to
“educate, conciliate and unite people.”

Another honored guest was John W.
Warner, Jr., 49, Under Secretary of the
Navy. Also present were Robert E. Lee,
IV, ’49, and Armistead Boothe, a former
Virginia state senator and a member of
the Alexandria law firm for which Presi-
dent Huntley worked before coming back
to W&L to teach law. Boothe was a guest
of Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn.

Arrangements for the meeting were
made by Edson B. Olds, ’61, president of
the Washington alumni chapter, with the
help of several other alumni.

NEW YORK. The annual alumni dinner
and reception was held March 19 in Man-
hattan in honor of President and Mrs.
Huntley. Chapter President Matthews A.
Griffith, ’40, presided over a short busi-
ness session that included the election of

new officers, and he introduced President
Huntley, who gave a brief report on Uni-
versity life. Griffith recognized Ross L. Ma-
lone, 32, general counsel of the General
Motors Corp. and Richard H. Turrell, ’49,
chairman of the Robert E. Lee Associates
program. Attending from the University
Farris
Hotchkiss, Professor of Religion Louis
Hodges, and Alumni Secretary W. C.
Washburn.

were Director of Development

NORTH TEXAS. A large number of
alumni were on hand April 21 in Dallas to
welcome Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn,
who reported on many aspects of campus
life and presented slides on University
activities. Washburn complimented the
chapter on helping to locate 13 candidates
for admission to the University, several of
whom were present at the meeting. Chap-
ter President Richard D. Haynes, ’58,
presided.

WeL

 

 
 
  
  
    

 
  
  

: visor to the Foundation. _—

 

- The chair j 1S sages ° fb
| rock maple, hand-ruk eC
black with gold trim and

 

 

 

welcome gift
: birthdays, annive1 S: ir ec
dings. All profit from

 

 

ham, ’14.

Price: $42. .00 f.0.b.
Gardner, Massachusetts

| Mail your order to”
- Wasa INGTON AND. ‘Lee
~ ALUMNI, INc.
_ Lexington, Virginia 244 50
_ The normal ship

“the order.

 

 

 

finished in cherry. It makes _ a |
for Christ mas,
s, or wed-
rom sales of the |

chair goes to the scholarship —
fund in memory of John Gra-_

 

 

 

 

cooon fay eee pare

Juvse Epwarp S$, DELAPLAINE of |
a has. written two articles for, The ‘News
mete ; ing an _ uninvited

 
 

Meco psie Gaviionmenal ‘Authority, a |
land-protection program incorporating the
city of Memphis; Shelby, Tipton, Fayette, and
rdeman Counties in Tennessee; and DeSoto,
Marshall, and Benton n counties i in Mississippi.
lifelong conservationist in the Mem-

‘d continually for the pro-
milion. and extend

| first

 
  
 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

: ling. He 1 | ieee | from the Army i in| 8
lonel, and he was recently promoted
tte won in A Nanotas 4 1a d a

 

‘for ie Sais = i Wilmington =
N.C. ss

1995 |

tee B. WITHERSPOON is now serving ‘on the

rd of governors of the American Bar a | | 7

1996 | io
Dr. CHARLES W. Lowry is currently governor a
of the North Carolina Piedmont district of

Rotary International. ‘He will attend |
pow Convention in } Australia Hine au im

   

   
     
 
 
 
  
 
 

 

tne Com iideat of the Pace . He eno re |
sides in Naples, Fla. 7

   

  

   

with eo Roebuck and ©o.,
i. retired July 31, 1970, and
ng and . traveling.

     
 
 
  

e /

yeats: with the DuPont Co., mostly

  
 
  
 
 
 

rial relations for he
owdon joined DuPont in
eC: sistant in the patrol divi-
t is now the employee relations

ecame division manager in

 

toa and i in 1945 1 went to the Old Hickory

 

   
  
    

 

work, | GRAHAM N. Lowpon re oe

 

 

 

 

| In 1957 he eas | appointed managet
| eee oe While

_ _ hes n eles two years
r of 40 years as a merchant.

   

; presi ie _Kingsp

) Orchestra \ssociation, vice ‘presi-
‘dent of the Tennessee Merchants Association,
and a director of the United Community
Fund. He is anaes a director of the Hol-
ston Valley Community 'y Hospital.

“The Rey oe Ty. RayMonp is vicar of St.
ohn’s Episc ey Church in | Tulare, ae

 

 

      
  
  
 
 
  

 

is president and chairman of
. 1 of Rahal Communications Corp.
pany has subsidiary radio and TV

-etersburg, Allentown, Pa. and

 

 

5 ann in the oil 1 business, Jou D.

 

 

28

Queen City Brewery and chairman |
comiaite eee. Demo

gan, Ill, CHESTER PALMER joined

| advertising and sales promotion. Fi

 

 
  

siege State Rec €
rently steward at Latonia, Churchill Downs,

and Miles Park.

tia L. WItson of Cumberland, Md. has
een appointed by Maryland Gov. Marvin
Mandel as a new member of the State Roads
Commission for the remainder of a four-
year term which began in June, 1970. Wilson
has been a member of the board of trustees
of state colleges since Tuly, 1962.
appointed by Gov. J. Millard Tawes in 1965
for a nine-year term. He is. — of

 
 

 

 

cratic. State ( ee

 

 

After 16 years with Johnson Motors a , Wauke-

 
  
 
 

Pierce Co. in Rockland, Mass. as dir

 
 

ufactures: outboard motors and v

 

PAUL M. MILLER - is program 1 officer of i inter-
national conferences with the bureau of In-
ternational — _Organizations—Departinent of

State.
1939

Groce H. VANTA \ has moved to 0 Atlanta where

he is divasion n manager for the Eutectic Weld-

“to provide cout S
the development of its internati

of captain. He joir

He was re- |

Ropert H. ADAMS: has
7 ment of Defense in wee
mom’ for tl st lO V

the uniform license appl:

. A partner in- al

 

  

of meetings, seminars, workshops, and. pub-

lications. |
| ARTHUR w. MANN, Jn. h has been named vice

president of Elizabeth River Terminals, Inc.
in Norfolk, Va. A 2q-year Navy veteran, Mann
retired from the service in 1965 with the rank
| Elizabeth River Termi-
nals i in 1965; | as assistant manager. Oo

 

Formerly vice president and director of River-
side Press, Inc. of Cambridge, Mass., THOMAS
~H. McCutcHeon is now plant manager of
| Rand. d McNally in Taunton, Mas | .

 
 
 
  
     

 

committee.
| the off-track

   

More recently, eee

| betting committee.

 

 

Wel

Hampton, Va. CPA firm,
ERLEY W. LEE, Jr. IS als also. on the evening —
faculty at Christopher “Newport College,

 

   
    
   
   
   
  

 
 
  

 

as

SE

 

 

 

central Peant He j ned
1960 as staff ation rl has

Scorr Wuurrte authored an article in the BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ja
January-February ‘issue of New Gu d the dau hter, Jo - 7
Young Americans for Freec | pina i |

ambique_ with an “exploratory dril
gram, he expects to |
Arabia for temporai

 

   
  

  
 

he is also oe paged i in in privete practice.»

erson ‘on ‘April 3 in Plai fielc NJ THOMAS E, STOVER and his father, ‘Epwarp E.
STOVER, '37, formed artnership for the

‘BORN: Mr. and 1 Mrs. RICHARD C. HARrcKovE, general i gece of law, with ¢ offices in V Wa

a daughter, Heather Leah, on Sept. 11, 1970. ingtor |

is now with the: regal depart rent

 
      
    
  
    

       
   

 

    
 
   
   
  
  

| S on the faculty of V Washington

re I wo the U P. HOrRINs : D.C, ‘since ‘graduation from

Vanderbilt law school, H. DANIEL Jones, Wt
has become governm ent relations assistant at
| the American Textile Manufacturers In-
: | stitute. Previously, he served in the Republi-
a the Navy, J Harey L. PAR- can national campaign, the er of
phthalmology residency at sas and as a legis ative aid to ¢ Congre ame
Te ple, ae. this a

 

 

  
 
    

  
   

  
      
     
   
    
 
 

 

Housron Ba, a nt

   

wR, E

a promotion with Chubb & Sons, Rovat

  

7 <7 ‘Williams = Hoe

  

TrReL, Jr. has been t
ee where he will have i

logy. Currently, he i is ; clinical psycho!
the Veterans Hospital in Alle ‘Park,
He has private practice in syc
Grosse Pointe and is a consultant to th
len Hospital i in Warren, Mich. a

   
 
     
 
   
   

  

 

 

 
 

Jack H. ‘De JARNETTE is. now ass sistant n
for Soeitunional sales at Wheat & Co. |

After completing his clerkship with the Su- —

preme Court of Appeals in Virginia, WILLIAM -

G. BROADDUS is now with the office of the
| r ge a of Virginia.

 
   
   
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

class agent for the Alumni Fund for a number

of years.
1926

EARL LESTER VALENTINE, a Lexington attor-
ney and former municipal judge, died May 7.
Except during the war years, Valentine prac-
ticed law in Lexington since 1926.

1928

GEORGE T. SMITH, a prominent attorney from
Portsmouth, Va., died in March. Smith re-
tired five years ago.

1929

GILBERT R. LApp, JR., a native and business-
man from Mobile, Ala., died March 27. Ladd,
a partner in a general insurance firm, was a
trustee of the University Military School, a
director of the YMCA, and a director of the
Mobile Arts and Sports Association.

 

34

1930

CHARLES Fox URQUHART, JR., a prominent at-
torney from Courtland, Va., died March 15.
Urquhart was a former mayor and council-
man of the town, and he was a former com-
missioner of accounts for Southampton

County.
193]

James E. Prersot, a resident of Oklahoma
City, Okla., died April 20. He operated the
Piersol Bond Co. for many years.

1932

Cot. DAvip M. MILLER, Virginia lawyer and
sportsman, died March 10. Miller received his
law degree in 1932 while serving as freshman
football coach at VMI. He was an athletic di-
rector and coach in the Virginia school system,
and entered the Air Force in 1940, from which
he was separated in 1947 as a full colonel.

Since World War II, he has traveled widely,
in connection with his activities as an aviation
broker and sports fan.

ROBERT KEENE HOADLEY, an English teacher
for many years, died Feb. 27. He taught in
Tenafly, N.J., at the Hill School in Potts-
town, Pa., and at the Ladue School in St.
Louis.

KENNETH ARTHUR SMITH, an attorney from
Watseka, IIl., died March 23. He was Master
in Chancery, Circuit Court of Iroquois Coun-
ty, Ill. Smith was also a director of the First
Trust & Savings Bank, as well as the First
Bank of Meadowview.

1936

SAMUEL HAMPTON HALLEY, JR., who was as-
sociated with Brown & Williamson Tobacco
Corp. of Lexington, Ky., died March 28.

1938

ERNEST L. BEALE, JR., manager of the 500 Shop
of Miller and Rhoads in Richmond, Va., died
March 19. Before joining the firm Beale was
cwner and operator of the Beach Mart, an
exclusive gift shop at Kill Devil Hills, N.C.

1940

DonaLp G. Buck, formerly assistant manager
of sales service for the American Broadcasting
Co., died March 17 in Forest Hills, N.Y. He
was a veteran of World War II.

1944

Dr. WILLIAM BELL GUTHRIE, professor of Eng-
lish and chairman of the department at the
University of Richmond, died March 13.
Guthrie was a teacher at the McCallie School
in Chattanooga, Tenn., at Washington and
Lee, and at the University of Virginia.

1965

LESLIE CHRISTOPHER WEISS, II, a licensed cer-
tified public accountant, died Nov. 19, 1970.
He was a member of the American Institute
of Certified Public Accountants. Weiss was at-
tending William and Mary graduate school,
working on his master’s degree.

1967

RICHARD WINBoRNE died January 29. He had
received his MBA from the University of
Chicago and at the time of his death was
employed as a marketing analyist for Humble
Oil and Refining Company in Charlotte, N.C.

WeL

~~

Bill Streit: great athlete,

A measure of a man’s character and
achievement is often the esteem in which
he is held by the people who knew him
best—the citizens of his hometown. Cer-
tainly the Washington and Lee alumni of
Birmingham, Ala., admired Bill Streit, and
this tribute to him comes to you through
their courtesy.

 

William Charles (Bill) Streit, Jr., Class
of 1908, acclaimed worldwide for his con-
tributions to athletics, from college foot-
ball to international olympics, died at the
age of 86 on April 4, 1971, at his home in
Birmingham, Ala.

His athletic career, which began with
an assistant coaching job at W&L in 1908
and spanned more than 53 work-filled
years, won praise on many levels—from
the Boys’ Club in his hometown to the
White House to International Olympic
headquarters. From the smallest to the
mightiest well wisher, all were equally
meaningful to Bill Streit.

Fellow athletic leaders held esteem as
well as affection for this man who devoted
so much time and energy to amateur ath-
letics and young athletes. Ole Miss Coach
John Vaught hailed him as a “true sports-
man giving generously of his time and
loyalty without thought of personal gains
and interests.” J. Lyman Bingham, execu-
tive director of the U.S. Olympic Com-
mittee in 1957, heralded his contributions
“to the development of the spirit of sports-
manship, fair play and volunteer service in
the minds of our young people.” And
from the White House, Deputy Assistant
Wilton Persons sent congratulations and
praise on behalf of the President when
Birmingham paid tribute to its native son
on Bill Streit Day in 1957.

Though he was born and lived most of
his life in Birmingham, Bill Streit left a

July, 1971

-a Sportsman s sportsman

 

BILL STREIT

 

 

 

 

legacy of athletic contributions that reach-
ed around the globe. A dominant figure in
southern football as a player, coach and
official, he was also a high U. S. Olympics
official.

Streit entered W&L in 1907, after at-
tending Auburn University, where he
participated in football, basketball and
track. At W&L he captained both the 1908
football team as a tackle, and the track
team as a weight man. After graduation
he coached for three years at W&L.

The story is told about the General's
preparations of their big game. Streit

wrote coach Mike Donahue of Auburn,
asking for details on the famed line divide
formation the Plainsmen were using suc-
cessfully. Donahue diagrammed the play
for him but made him promise to use it
only in that one game. It won.

But athletics were only a part of Bill
Streit’s varied life at W&L. He was an all-
round campus leader, and in recognition
of this fact, he was honored after gradua-
tion by being named an alumnus member
to Omicron Delta Kappa, a national lead-
ership fraternity for men founded in 1913
at W&L.

35

                

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
 
  
    

 

Bill Streit |
In 1911 Streit joined the staff at Au- was president of the Birmingham Athletic read like a Who’s Who of Sports. |
burn as line coach. It was Coach Donahue Club from 1921-23 and was made an hon-- Daniel J. Ferris, AAU secretary-treas-

 

ss urer said: “It is nice to know, after many
1 the Olym- years of devoted service to a worthy cause,

ointed that the work you have done is recognized
and appreciated . . . I extend congratula-
tions to you on being honored in a justly
deserved manner.” Avery Brund
dent of the Mm aaa i of International

 

 

 

 

  

 

supporter of

U.S. Olympic « n, you have ©
made a tremendous contribution through |
the years.” | |

_ And praise came in the coaching 1
world. From Shug Jordan, Auburn head _
football coach, a boy Bill practically rais-
ed: “Let me con; yratulate you on this won-
_derful day. In my travels I come across so
many people who

   

 

  

 

 

 

 

 
   
 
 
   

. 1948, at In | itstan dir
rary presi- - figures gathered | in Bin

 

 

‘Bill Streit is
live wherever th

 

 

 

 

A Special Conference

 

for Alumni Representatives

 

October 7, 8, and g will

 

 

 

Put Your Eye

 

on Washington and Lee University

 

A three-day conference for chapter representatives,
class agents, regional agents, and others upon whom
the University depends for understanding and lead-
ership will be held October 7 through October g.
This is the fourth in a series of such conferences
designed to inform the participants about every ele-
ment in the life of Washington and Lee—its
strengths, recent changes, needs, aspirations, and
plans for the future. Participants will not only hear
the Washington and Lee story in detail from Uni-
versity officials, faculty members, and students, but
will also have numerous opportunities to exchange
views with them in formal and informal sessions.
The hard work will be interspersed with social gath-
erings, and on October g Washington and Lee will
play Hampden-Sydney in football at Hampden-
Sydney.

While the conference is primarily for those who fit
into the categories of chapter representatives, class
agents, and regional agents, there will be room for
other alumni.

If you are interested in attending this conference,
please write to William C. Washburn, Alumni Secre-
tary, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY :

It’s a Directory

By Geet eeO)) Sued ko). e
yer

 

It’s a Document

 

It’s an Answer Book

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Directory

1749-1970

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni
Directory is now available at only $5.00 per copy, in-
cluding postage.

Question: Have you ever wondered whether the
father, the grandfather, an uncle of one of your
classmates also attended Washington and Lee?
You'll find this answer and much more in the new
Alumni Directory. Every person who attended W&L
from 1749 on is listed alphabetically, together with
his class, his degree, his address, and his occupation.

Question: Have you ever wanted a full list of the
members of your class or any class? You'll find it in
the Class Listing section of the Alumni Directory.

Question: Have you ever wondered how many W&L
alumni live in Cleveland, in Philadelphia, in Cairo
—anywhere? The Geographical List in the Alumni
Directory will tell you. If you’re passing through,
you can look them up.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be
without this valuable reference book in his home or
office. Use the handy order form below to order your
copy. Do it today.

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me..................00. copy(ies) of the Washington
and Lee University Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, in-
cluding postage.

 

Name

 

Address

 

 

Zip

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIV
LEXINGTON VA

24450

>

 

available again

aes SS wt
; ue ay eA ee
2

we ?
if ee 4
<4 é

Sey P

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes
Price, $39.00 per set of eight,
including shipping charges
Available in blue color only

Send order and check to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

