the alumni magazine of washington and lee university NOVEMBER 1977

Ce

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wy.
@

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 52, Number 8, November 1977

William C. Washburn, ’40 ..............--.-0065 Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ..............--56. Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing,’77 ..........----. Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ...... 0. eee eee eee eee. Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann... 2... eee eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Two New TYuSteSs .........ccccecesceccecesescsenseeeeeeneeeees ]
Skylark, Mountaintop Retreat ..........::eseeeeeees a
W&L’s Oxford COnne ction ............ceeeeeeeeseeeeeeee ees 6
Architecture Of Lexington ............ceseeeeseeeeeeeeeeeees 9
Warner Center Dedicated ..............:seceeeeeeeeeeeeeees 14
Thomas Professorship ...........ccceeeeeeeeeesesseeeeeeeeeees 16
W&eL, GaZette .....cccceccccecsecdecssoosccbsescotesccncnonregeaeee 18
W&L Bits and PI€CES ............csecsscsesesenessenaincoenens 22
Fall Athletics ...<.cccccc.cccsccscccssecocesescephoscousseeneepenea am 23
Chapter News ......cccccecesceseseeseeseeeeteeeneenenneeeneees 24
Class NOtes .o.c.cccc5 cove cpeccincsvctietersec art 26
Pn: Me@MmOria®) 26sec ckeiesteertnctiee tee eee 34

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Epwin J. Fottz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

RoBERT M. WuirteE II, 38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President

Jerry G. Soutn,’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

FRED Fox BENTON JR., 60, Houston, Tex.
WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
PuiLie R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DEnNny, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, ’58, Richmond, Va.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HOLLIs, 51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
Courtney R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
PAUL E. SANDERS, ’43, White Plains, N.Y.

ON THE COVER: A contents sampler from top left
clockwise: A haunting decorative detail from a major
new work on Lexington’s architecture, p. 9; David W.
Sprunt, the first Thomas Professor of Bible, and the man
whom the professorship honors, Fletcher Otey Thomas,
p. 16; Skylark, a mountaintop gift to W&L, p. 2; Trustee
Jack W. Warner speaks at dedication of the Warner
Center, p. 14; Oxford’s High Street and Prof. David Bell,
W&L’s first Oxford exchange professor p. 6.

 

 

 

 

 

NEW TRUSTEES

Benton, 60, and Compton, ’50, ’53L, Named to Board

 

A CORRECTION

Trustee contributions to Phase I of the Uni-
versity’s development program amounted to
37.3% of the total $37.5 million raised—not
7% as indicated by a typographical error in
the annual report issue of this magazine
(October). The editors regret the error.

 

 

 

 

 

A. Christian Compton, a justice of the
Supreme Court of Virginia, and F. Fox
Benton Jr., executive vice president of
Houston Oil & Minerals Corp. of Texas,
have been elected to the Board of
‘Trustees.

Both new trustees are W&L
graduates. Compton received his B.A.
degree in 1950 and his law degree three
years later. He was awarded the
honorary Doctor of Laws degree in
1975. Benton received his B.A. degree
in economics in 1960. He received the
master’s degree in business adminis-
tration from Harvard University in
1964.

Both have been extremely active over
many years in University alumni
activities. Compton was president of the
W&L alumni association in 1972-73 and
was a member of the national alumni
board of directors for three years prior
to that. Benton had been elected last
spring to a four-year term on the alumni
board and has long been prominent in
alumni work in Houston and through-
out the southwest.

Compton and Benton will serve initial
six-year terms on the 22-member W&L
board. They will then be eligible for re-
election to one additional six-year term
each.

After graduation from Washington
and Lee and service with the U.S. Navy,
Compton practiced law in Richmond
with the firm of May, Garrett, Miller,
Newman & Compton until his
appointment by Gov. Mills Godwin in
1966 to the Law and Equity Court (now
Circuit Court) for the city of Richmond.
He was named to the state Supreme
Court by Gov. Godwin in 1974 and
elected to a full term by the General
Assembly in January 1975.

Justice Compton is first vice chairman
of the Board of Trustees of The
Collegiate Schools of Richmond and is a
member of the Virginia, Virginia State
and Richmond bar associations. He is
also a member of the Administrative

 

F. Fox Benton Jr.

Board of Trinity United Methodist
Church in Richmond.

He was born in Portsmouth and grew
up in Ashland, Va. He and his wife, the
former Betty Leigh Stephenson, have
three daughters, Leigh, 13, Mary Bryan,
11, and Melissa, 9.

Benton has been associated with
Houston Oil & Minerals Corp. since
1967. The company has extensive
interests in oil, natural gas and mineral
exploration and production, primarily in
Texas and on the Louisiana Gulf coast.
Last year, it was the sixth-most active
domestic exploration company in the
nation.

In addition to his activity in W&L
alumni affairs, he is a member of the
boards of Southern National Bank and
the Armand Bayou Nature Center Inc.,
both in Houston.

 

A. Christian Compton

He is married to the former Lizinka
Mosbey, and they have three children,
Lizinka Campbell, 13, Fred Fox III, 10,
and Lucia Temple, 8.

As a W&L undergraduate, Compton
was president of his fraternity, Phi
Kappa Sigma, and captain of the
basketball team in his senior year. (A
couple of years ago, Richmond Times-
Dispatch columnist Charles R. McDowell
Jr., 48, wrote that he remembered the
days “when Chris Compton rode in the
second-team car on basketball trips
before he was promoted to the first-
team car and thence inexorably to the
Supreme Court.”)

Benton, a member of Sigma Alpha
Epsilon at W&L, was elected to
membership in Phi Eta Sigma, the
honorary society which recognizes
exceptional academic achievement in the
freshman year. He was also a member of
The Commerce Fraternity and was
business manager of the 1960 Calyx.

 

 

 

 

SKYLARK

aie

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Cheek Jr. at Skylark, the mountaintop estate which they have given to Washington
and Lee as a memorial to Dr. Douglas Southall Freeman, Mrs. Cheek’s father.

Gift of Mountain Estate Honors Freeman

Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Cheek Jr. of
Richmond have given Skylark, their 365
acre mountaintop estate and Christmas
tree farm on the Blue Ridge Parkway in
nearby Nelson County, to Washington
and Lee.

The gift honors the memory of the
late Dr. Douglas Southall Freeman, Mrs.
Cheek’s father. Dr. Freeman,
biographer of George Washington and
of Robert E. Lee, was editor of the
Richmond News Leader from 1915 until
1949. His four-volume R. E. Lee, for
which he was awarded the Pulitzer Prize
in 1935, remains the standard biography
of Lee. He was again awarded the
Pulitzer, posthumously, in 1958 for his
definitive biography of Washington.
W&L awarded him the honorary Doctor
of Laws degree in 1915.

President Robert E. R. Huntley
commented on the Cheeks’ benefaction:
“Particularly pleasing to us is that the
gift of Skylark honors the memory of
Dr. Freeman, whom Americans know as

2

the eminent biographer of the two men
whose character shaped our University.
To Washington and Lee people, of
course, he has always been that and
much more. It is an honor to us that
Skylark honors him.”

W&L will operate Skylark in the
same way the Cheeks did, with a
resident manager. The University’s
director of projects, D. E. Brady Jr., will
also spend a portion of his time there.

In addition to its continuing function
as a private farm, Skylark will also be
used for small meetings, forums,
symposia and retreats involving
scholars-in-residence and other
University guests.

The central cluster of buildings at
Skylark consists of a main house with a
guest apartment, a guest house, a two-
level “barn” that is in fact the manager’s
residence, a stable and workshops. The
area is landscaped and has a small
garden. At a distance from the
residences are a small lake, a tennis

court and a pavilion for picnicking. The
Cheeks’ gift to W&L included all the
furnishings in the houses and the farm
equipment as well.

Shortly after they purchased the land
in the mid-1960s and before they began
construction of the “village,” Mr. and
Mrs. Cheek planted their first crop of
Christmas tree seedlings. (See
accompanying story.) There are now 10
plantations at Skylark.

Mr. Cheek was director of the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts from 1948
until his retirement in 1969, the year he
and Mrs. Cheek began construction of
Skylark. Mr. Cheek, a graduate in fine
arts history at Harvard and in
architecture at Yale, designed the
village.

“Those associated with Washington
and Lee have always felt a special
affinity for the mountains which
surround us,” President Huntley
remarked. “How gratifying it is to know
that the University now owns a place of
incomparable beauty in those
mountains.

“It is simply not possible to overstate
Skylark’s majesty. The Cheeks took what
is without question one of the most
beautiful natural locations in Virginia—
and did what one might have thought
would not be possible. With unfailing
taste and elegance, they have made it
more beautiful.

“They have told us it lifted their
spirits to be at Skylark. By their gift they
have lifted ours immeasurably, and for
that we shall be always grateful.”

W&L’s Place
in the Sky

This article by Edith Lindeman appeared
in the Richmond Times-Dispatch on Jan. 20,
1974, and is reprinted with permission.

At a certain point on the Blue Ridge
Parkway about 50 miles southwest of
Charlottesville, an unexpected vista
opens on a rolling meadow that sweeps
toward a rounded hill, topped by a
cluster of four gray-shingled buildings
that tourists tend to identify as a
century-old farmhouse and its
dependencies.

Far from being an antiquity, this is
Skylark Village, started in 1969 and
completed a year later. It is the part-
time summer home of Mr. and Mrs.
Leslie Cheek Jr., and though the
exterior appears picture-postcard
ancient, modern amenities include
central heating and air-conditioning,
three private telephones and an
unlimited supply of water.

The “village,” which from a distance
suggests a main house, a tenant’s
cottage, a barn and a spring house, is
the result of Cheek’s long quest for
suitable acreage in Virginia to raise
Christmas trees after retirement as
director of the Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts. He’d explored a dozen locations
before choosing this site where, at an
elevation of 3,300 feet, there’s a
breathtaking view of a big valley in one
direction and the Appalachian
Mountains in the other.

‘Those views are about all Cheek had
no hand in creating. Although best
known hereabouts as the innovative.and
indefatigable museum director, he is
also a graduate of Yale University’s
School of Architecture (1935). He
never practiced that profession, but he
never forgot it either, and it was he who
drew up the plans, chose the materials
and supervised most of the construction
of Skylark Village.

The main house, occupied by Mr.
and Mrs. Cheek, may look like a
farmer’s home, but actually is a structure
of three floors for two apartments. The
owners enter from a graveled parking
area, its walls espaliered with pear trees.
The first and second floors are
connected by a steeply spiraled staircase
tucked into a space not more than four
feet square.

A terrace, protected against
persistent mountaintop breezes, opens
off the living room and is used for
occasional dining, frequent sunning or
just looking at the scenery. Below the
Cheeks’ main floor, but with its own
entrance and parking space, is an
apartment for the year-round manager,
his wife and seven-year-old son. [The
manager's residence is now in a separate
building, and the lower level of the main
house is a guest apartment.] Since the
house is built on a sloping hillside, this
apartment also is at ground level.

The rooms are small, but
uncluttered, with built-in cabinets,

 

nei -

View from the main house, looking through the gates across fields and vast rows of Christmas trees toward
the Blue Ridge Parkway.

The main house, with its garage to the left and the manager’s residence to the right.

 

 

 

SKYLARK

shelves and drawer space that lessen the
need for excess furniture. The kitchen is
so compact that Mrs. Cheek can stand in
the middle of the floor and reach every
appliance. (Cheek calls it “the yacht
plan.”) One feature is a warming unit
that is a series of drawers in which
prepared meals can be placed on trays,
each on its own shelf and ready to serve
at leisure. Cheek considered the kitchen
gadget so ingenious he installed one in
every bedroom, minus the warming
coils, to serve as drawer space.

Since rooms with many built-ins tend
to look starkly utilitarian, the Cheeks
have selected furniture from modern
and Victorian eras, enlivened by colorful
contemporary fabrics.

Though the exteriors appear
covered with old-timey wooden
“shakes,” they are roofed with fireproof
concrete shingles with cypress sidings all
stained to simulate age and giving the
self-contained village the patina of a
hundred years. The complex is vaguely
in the Williamsburg style of the 18th

 

Cemtury. Skylark’s pond, bordered by trees, invites swimming and boating.
Of the other three structures, the

“tenant’s cottage” is a guest house,
complete with living-dining room, a
master bedroom for grownups and two
rooms furnished with bunk beds for
young fry. The house is often occupied
by Mr. and Mrs. Leslie Cheek III and
the Cheek grandchildren. Their far-
sighted grandfather equipped their
clothes closets with rods that can be eee
elevated progressively as the youngsters

grow taller. : ,

Largest of the buildings is a two-level (3% = a,
“barn,” in reality a carpentry shop [now a :
the manager’s residence; a separate shop
has been built]... .

So it is that six years ago, a year before
construction began on the village, the first
crop of 1,500 seedlings went into the
earth at Skylark. A like number of trees
have been planted each year and since
Fraser firs grow best at an elevation of
3,000 feet or higher, all are flourishing.
VPI also supervises an experimental plot
of its own to determine what diseases
might afflict the trees. So far nothing — . —
has happened except superb arboreal The guest house. The Board of Trustees conducted part of its October meeting at Skylark, when most of these
health. This spring [1974] the seventh photographs were made.
planting will take place, and come 1977,
the first Skylark Village Christmas trees
will be harvested.

If it is presumed that Leslie Cheek
merely spends his summers up in the

4

 

   

mountains watching his trees grow,
nothing is further from the truth. Since
his retirement from the Virginia
Museum five years ago [now eight years
old], his creative hand and mind have
been occupied with consultations, plans
and involvements for museums, historic
landmarks and restorations all over the
country, with prime emphasis on
Virginia.

A project in which Mrs. Cheek also
has an abiding interest has been Cheek’s
planning, presentation and architectural
consultation for a reception center and
parking lot at Stratford Hall in
Westmoreland County which served the
Lee family for three generations and
was the birthplace of Robert E. Lee... .

Here in Richmond, his ability to
visualize a project before he puts pen to
paper has kept Cheek busy as a
consultant, planner, advisor or restorer
for such locations as Agecroft, the
interior of the Jefferson Hotel, the
Museum of the Confederacy, the a
proposed Science Museum of Virginia, The view past one of Skylark’s dependencies, looking southwestward with the Appalachians in the background.
St. Catherine’s School, the Special
Collections room of the Richmond
Public Library and St. Christopher’s
School. .

Further afield, he’s involved with
such state localities as Woodrow Wilson’s
birthplace in Staunton; the lighting of
the restored interior of the Rotunda of
the University of Virginia; plans for the
President’s House at Hollins College;
consultation on the art collection of the
College of William and Mary; and on
the documentary display for the George
Marshall Library at Lexington. Recently,
he has been asked to draw up plans for . 7. ae
a small museum near Christ Church in Ce
Lancaster County.

Out of the state he has been the
advisor on lighting the proposed
restored interiors of the U.S. Capitol
building in Washington, has planned a
visitors’ center for historic Shakertown
at Pleasant Hill, Ky., and devoted his
talents to other historic sites and
museums from Nashville to Niagra
Falls, from Harvard, Yale and the
University of Pennsylvania to St.
Stephens School in Rome, Italy.

Not so long ago, someone asked
Leslie Cheek how he fills in his time
since retirement.

“I just raise Christmas trees,” he
answered.

Don’t ever believe it!

 

 

Dean Steinheimer of the School of Law relaxes in the yard of the guest house, surrounded by the
mountains’ magnificence.

 

 

By Douglass Dewing, ’77

OUR OXFORD CONNECTION

W&L’s Newest Exchange Program Swaps Professors With Ancient University

Imagine Washington and Lee at a
third its present size. Further, imagine
placing it in the midst of 35 other
colleges of about the same size, all
banded together under a federal system.
That is the sort of environment from
which springs W&L’s visiting professor
of geology, Dr. David Bell.

Bell, a graduate of Trinity College at
Oxford University, is a fellow, or
professor, at University College, one of
the oldest of the small independent
colleges that make up Oxford
University. This fall, he became the first
participant in Washington and Lee’s
newest exchange program.

Developed by Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard,
W&L professor of psychology and head
of the department, the exchange
program swaps professors, not students.
The idea for such a program occurred
to Jarrard in 1975 while he was on
sabbatical, teaching and conducting
research at Oxford. He had been made
welcome at University College and
eventually decided the friendships
found there should be brought back to
Lexington in the form of a W&L-
Oxford exchange program.

Following news of the John Lee Pratt
bequest to Washington and Lee, Jarrard
approached officials both at W&L and at
University College about it. President
Huntley and Lord Redcliffe-Maud, then
master at University College, agreed,
and planning began which culminated
this fall with Bell’s arrival in Lexington
and the departure of Lewis H. LaRue,
W&L professor of law, for Oxford.

At Oxford, Jarrard often sat with Bell
at lunch and talked about W&L, the
Shenandoah Valley, and his next-door
neighbor, Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, who
happens to be the head of the W&L
geology department.

Bell became eligible for a sabbatical
about the time the exchange program
received official sanction. Since he had
only been to the United States once
before, and then only briefly, he
thought it would be a good opportunity
to return, and the fact that he would be
paid for teaching would mean he could
bring his family too. And beyond that,

6

he says, the Shenandoah Valley is “a
nice part of the country which is
geologically interesting.”

Jarrard says the program offers two
principal advantages to Washington and
Lee students and teachers. Exposure to
an English scholar and to a different
way of looking at things can be a
broadening experience. The benefit
derives not only from subject matter,
which may be something not ordinarily
taught at W&L—as in the instance of
Bell; he is a pre-eminent vulcanologist—
but also through exposure to the
different customs, lifestyles and ways of
thinking that a visitor brings to campus.

In return, at University College, the
W&L professor is provided with an
office, lives in college housing and is
“adopted” by a college family. He
becomes, for the semester or year he is
there, a member of the college.
University College even welcomes the
visitor from W&L as a temporary
member of its “senior common room,”
which, among other benefits, means
access to the faculty dining facilities—
the approximate equivalent in British
academia of the key to the American
executive washroom. On his return, he
is able to share with his W&L colleagues
and his students a perspective he could
not have acquired in any other way.

For his part, Bell sees three benefits
in the exchange program. He agrees
with Jarrard that exposure to a new way
of thinking is good for the students.
“European students have a sense of
geography, of other nations,” he
says. “perhaps America has enough
geography that its students do not feel a
need to look outside the country.” But
since his arrival, he says, there seems to
be a growing awareness at W&L “that
methods are different elsewhere.” Like
Jarrard, Bell also sees as another
substantial advantage the opportunity
the program provides for exposure to
academic subjects not ordinarily taught
at Washington and Lee.

But to Bell, the Oxford teaching
approach is the program’s most
important contribution at a school like
Washington and Lee. A product of the

tutorial system at Oxford, he places
great reliance on independent reading.
In fact, he refuses to teach his course
from a text, requiring instead that his
students learn to use original sources.
He believes subjectivity creeps into texts,
and while a beginning student will not
be able to spot errors in a scientist’s
thinking, he will “get the feeling the
man had, not an interpretation, but the
actual words.”

“None of my W&L students were
aware of Nature,” he said. “Some were
aware of Scientific American and Science,
but they didn’t read them.” All three are
major journals for scientific work.

“The students here listen to me as if I
were revealing some great truth. At
Oxford, the students tend to look
skeptical,” he said. “Students here are
more deferential. They will ask
questions, but slowly, almost as if they
were afraid of looking stupid. This has
been especially pronounced because
there have been some faculty members
sitting in, too.”

To bring out ideas in classes, Bell will
ask the students a direct question. When
they fumble for an answer, he suggests
they think about it, and the discussion
will be resumed during the next class.
“That gives everyone a chance to read
up on it,” he said.

Many Oxford professors have been to
the United States, but usually to attend
large graduate schools. “But UCLA is
not the United States,” Bell says. At
Washington and Lee, the fellow finds
himself immersed, perhaps for the first
time, in a small undergraduate-oriented
college in a small town.

“Lexington is a pleasant place to visit,
and teaching covers a lot of the costs of
coming here and traveling around.
Research is a very esoteric thing
sometimes. You can spend time here
just teaching and benefit.”

From both Bell’s and Jarrard’s
descriptions, Lexington and Oxford are
much alike. Both are pleasant cities, in
beautiful surroundings, with attractive
colleges.

Professors Bell and Jarrard stroll the Colonnade.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 ae

High Street in Oxford.

“Oxford is a small town,” Jarrard said.
“Its architecture is a mishmash of lots of
different styles and buildings, each
interesting in itself. A number of the
colleges were founded in the 13th
century, so you get a feeling of
timelessness. Everything is so old and
still so attractive.” Each college at
Oxford is independent, in control of its
own building program, he added.

Bell comments, “If visitors are
interested in history or architecture,
there are lots there. There are also
music and theater. Oxford is 40 miles
from Stratford and only an hour from.
London by train with all the advantages
of that.”

As England is much smaller than the
United States, there is a larger degree of
inter-university cooperation. But W&L’s
location near UVa, V.M.I., Madison, the
women’s colleges, Virginia Tech,
Washington, Richmond and Roanoke
gives Lexington the same sort of feeling,
Bell thinks. For research work, he can
go to the larger universities or use
W&L’s inter-library loan program, and
for relaxation, he and his family can go
to the larger cities.

As a resident of Lexington, the
Oxford lecturer says he becomes “aware
of other aspects of American life than
those that come across in the
newspapers and on TV.”

Two of Bell’s children attend
Lexington schools. He was impressed at
a recent parent-teacher meeting at the
number of parents he met who were

8

 

 

 

worried about the education their
children receive. He was also surprised
that the principal of the school would
take him on a tour of the school and
point out not only good points, but also
the problems.

One of his children is in high school,
the other in elementary school. Bell
notes some of the differences between
English and American schools: “In
England we tend to specialize our kids
much earlier. Kids in high school start to
specialize at 16, and in the last two years
of high school they are at a very
advanced level.” According to Bell,
during their final two years, the students
take only three or four subjects per year
instead of the 10 or more taken during
earlier years.

“At that stage, the student generally
knows what he wants to specialize in at
the university, so he comes to the
university with a greater fund of
knowledge. A difference here is that I
can’t assume the whole audience has the
same level of information. I wonder how
many are slightly bored, because they
have heard it all before, and how many
don’t know what I am talking about. In a
tutorial, you don’t have that problem.
You know exactly how much the student
knows.

“The Oxford student can’t experi-
ment academically as the Wash-
ington and Lee student can,” Bell
says. Students have changed majors at
Oxford, but it doesn’t happen fre-
quently and is usually into a related

Hiei seis

field, from physics into chemistry, for
example. Rarely does the chemistry
student change to economics, he said.

“At the end of the undergraduate
career, we’ve turned out a high-caliber
specialist. But in the American post-
graduate school, students catch up
rapidly.”

Despite the differences between
Lexington and Oxford, the Bells seem to
fit right into Lexington. “My wife and
children have been taken up and invited
out. The children have integrated into
life here so fast, they have already
picked up the accent,” Bell said.

“Lexington is different from ‘big-city
U.S.A.” Americans have a great
reputation for hospitality, but that could
be multiplied in this part of Virginia.
The work behind the scenes of Dean
Watt, Mr. Whitehead and President
Huntley has smoothed my family’s
passage through Lexington.

“W&L and V.M.I. bulk large here, but
they don’t obliterate the rest of the
community. The people here have
character. Here you can see poor or
backward people, even black people,
more than you would see the West
Indians in England.

“You get the impression of a little
town, making its own way, doing some
things wrong and some right, but you
are aware of wide problems and people
facing them. This is more of the real
America.”

 

 

 

A meticulously researched, profusely
illustrated new book of special interest
to Washington and Lee alumni, The
Architecture of Historic Lexington, has just
been published by the University Press
of Virginia and the Historic Lexington
Foundation.

The 314-page book is by Royster
Lyle Jr. and Pamela Hemenway
Simpson. It contains almost 400
photographs, most of them taken by
Sally Munger Mann or printed by her
from plates in Washington and Lee’s

Michael Miley Collection.

Lyle is associate director of the
George C. Marshall Research
Foundation in Lexington. Simpson is
assistant professor of art history at
Washington and Lee. Mann is
Washington and Lee’s staff
photographer and also practices
professional photography in Lexington.

The Architecture of Historic Lexington is
the first comprehensive study of its kind
of Lexington and the two nationally
distinguished campuses in the

 

 

 

 

The Architecture of
Historic Lexington

  
     

Royster Lyle, Jr., and Pamela Hemenway Simpson

Photographs by Sally Munger Mann

 

 

 

THE FACE
OF
LEXINGTON

Handsome New Book
Is First Architectural
Study of Its Kind

Unusual new views of familiar Lexington sights
characterize The Architecture of Historic
Lexington, just published by the University Press
of Virginia—for example, this view of the
portico of Newcomb Hall. Most of the photos in
the book are by Sally Mann, head W&L photo-
grapher.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

community. The volume is divided into
three sections: the town, Washington

and Lee, and Virginia Military Institute.

In each section, an essay on the history
and development of representative
styles is followed by a photographic
survey of the buildings.

The Washington and Lee section
contains 90 illustrations, including a
number of pictures never or rarely
published before. Among the most
interesting, perhaps, is a conjectural

drawing of Liberty Hall Academy as it
appeared before being destroyed by fire
in January 1803 (see accompanying
reproduction of the drawing, reprinted
from the book with permission, as are all
the other illustrations on these pages).
The Liberty Hall drawing is based on
the detailed measurements given in
specifications when the construction con-
tract was awarded in 1793. Also elemen-
tal in developing the conjectural drawing
were investigations at the ruins and

 

 

10

 

 

Lee Chapel as it might have been: Top left, the
first plan, drawn about 1866 by Thomas Homes
Williamson; top right, a proposal submitted by
the firm of Flournoy & Flournoy in 1920 for an
enlargement and extension of the Chapel.
Above left, the Chapel as it was built and is

preserved today—a National Historic
Landmark. Above, a faculty house of Washing-
ton College, one of four impressive Greek
Revival residences built on the front campus in
1841-42.

 

The first carefully documented drawing of how Liberty Hall
looked before it was destroyed by fire in January 1803 (artist:
Larry Drechsler). Note the identity with the Michael Miley
photograph (left; ca. 1890) showing the ruins from exactly
the same perspective. The authors’ research suggested that
the Liberty Hall cupola had been modeled after that on Old
Nassau Hall at Princeton (immediately below).

YE «MOO

CP Koo
“~—=

 

11

 

 

 

comparisons with other buildings
believed to have some architectural
relationship with Liberty Hall in one
way or another. The cupola, for
instance, is similar to one on Old Nassau
Hall at Princeton, a building familiar to
William Graham, rector of Liberty Hall
at the time of construction. The known
window and door arrangements and
proportions of Liberty Hall were similar
to those of the first Kentucky State
House, built in 1793-94, and many of

the settlers of Kentucky were from the
Lexington area. Liberty Hall’s most
curious feature, however, was the
chimney arrangement, found in only
two other extant buildings in
Rockbridge County, both 18th-century
residences (Liberty Hall was a dormitory
as well as academic building).
Similarly extensive research went
into the rest of the W&L section of the
book and into the town and VMI
sections. In his introduction, Frederick

 

 

12

 

Top: Prof. David C. Humphreys of the W&L
engineering faculty took this photograph in the
1880s, showing Newcomb Hall shortly after it
had been completed. Humphreys was the
architect of the portico added to Newcomb in
1909. The Old North Dormitory can be seen in
the background; it was replaced at the end of
the century by Tucker Hall. Above: Miley
photos showing late-Victorian eclectic archi-
tecture in Lexington—the railroad station (built
in 1883) in its heyday; the M. W. Paxton House
(1895) at the corner of Lee and Nelson, across
from the post office.

 

 

 

D. Nichols, Cary D. Langhorne
professor of architecture at the
University of Virginia, comments: “One
of the most striking aspects of
Lexington’s architecture is that it
includes exceptionally fine examples of
almost every major architectural style
from the late eighteenth to the early
twentieth century: few communities are
so fortunate as to have such a time
capsule.”

The authors say “the special variety

and excellence” of Lexington’s
architecture reflect “a remarkable
degree of education and sophistication,”
and the mark of the city’s residents “is
clearly imprinted on the architecture of
the place.”

 

The Architecture of Historic Lexington is
available by mail to alumni through the
W&L Bookstore, Lexington 24450, for
$16 postpaid, tax included.

 

 

 

 

Top: distinctive Victorian cornices on West
Nelson Street, above shops in the business
district. Center left: decorative tile on the first
floor of the Rockbridge County Courthouse
(1897). Center right: mantel detail, “a
wonderful piece of folk art,” in the 130-year-old
Hopkins House on West Nelson Street. Bottom
left: unusual carved dog’s-head bannister in
Stono, built in 1818 by Col. John Jordan as his
own residence. Jordan and his partner, Samuel
Darst, built Washington Hall six years later.
Jordan and Darst also collaborated in 1821-24
on four majestic residences on what is now Lee
Avenue; a curious feature in one of them, The
Rectory (of the Episcopal Church), is the carved
hand on the inside of the front doorway,
seemingly holding the fanlight, bottom right.

13

WARNER CENTER

Gymnasium Addition Named in Honor of Generous Benefactor

The $3.25-million addition to
Washington and Lee’s gymnasium has
been formally named for Jonathan W.
(Jack) Warner, prominent Alabama
business and civic leader and member of
the Board of Trustees.

The dedication ceremony took place
on Oct. 21 in conjunction with the
Board’s regular autumn meeting on
campus.

Warner is president and board
chairman of Gulf States Paper Corp. of
Tuscaloosa. He is a Washington and Lee
graduate and has been a member of the
Board of Trustees since 1970.

Through the David Warner
Foundation, of which he is chairman of
the board of trustees, Warner has been
an extremely generous benefactor of the
University. His gifts during the current
Development Program for the Decade
of the 1970s alone have totaled$1.3
million. The expansion and renovation
of the 60-year-old Doremus Gym were
principal elements in the capital portion
of that program.

The new facilities were formally
named the “Jonathan Westervelt
Warner Athletic Center” at the October
ceremony, and the name “Warner
Center” appears in granite at the
entrances to the five-floor, 100,000-
square-foot addition to the old gym.

The Warner Center has a 2,500-seat
basketball arena, a regulation-size pool
with a balcony for 500 spectators, a
wrestling room, 10 courts for handball,
paddleball and squash, physical
education classrooms, training and
equipment rooms, and extensive locker
facilities for every indoor sport and for
general student and faculty use.

Participating in the ceremony were
E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., Rector of the
W&L Board; Dr. John Newton Thomas,
Rector Emeritus; President Robert E. R.
Huntley; William D. McHenry, athletic
director, and Warner himself.

In his beguilingly low-key country-
boy manner, Warner remarked that to
him, physical activity plays “a very, very
important role in education—more
important than any of us realizes.”

Athletics can serve as an outlet for

14

tension, he said; it teaches a person how
to lose graciously as well as how to win;
it leads to enduring friendships. The
physical education program is an
important element in W&L’s
“atmosphere,” he said.

“It means a whole lot more than
wealth,” he said.

A tongue-in-cheek resolution
adopted by the W&L Board and read by
Nuckols at the ceremony noted the
University’s identical interest in physical
fitness but added that there’s nothing
wrong with wealth as well. “We folks
here at the University are mighty
pleasured by his unselfish gift of hard
Alabama cash,” the resolution declared.

Warner was a student at W&L from
1936 until 1940. He received his B.S.
degree in business administration, then
served in Burma with the Mars Task
Force during World War II. Afterwards
he joined Gulf States Paper and was
head of production and sales activities
before being named executive vice
president in 1950.

In 1957 he was elected president of
the corporation, and in 1959 he was
elected to the additional post of
chairman of the board. In both

 

capacities he succeeded his mother, Mrs.
Herbert D. (Mildred) Warner, whose
father, Herbert Westervelt, had founded
the company.

In addition to his W&L Board
service, he is chairman of the board of
visitors of the University of Alabama
College of Commerce and Business
Administration. Alabama awarded him
the honorary Doctor of Laws degree in
1976. Warner is also a member of the
board of directors of the Culver
Educational Foundation, Culver Military
Academy, the school he attended prior
to W&L.

He is a member of the Alabama
Academy of Honor and has been “Man
of the Year” of the Alabama Council of
the National Management Association;
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, his social
fraternity, and Culver Military
Academy.

Warner and Gulf States Paper have
received numerous honors for water-
pollution control efforts, including the
National Wildlife Federation’s
Whooping Crane Award in 1976 and
the highest award of the American
Paper Institute two years before that.
Warner was Alabama Conservationist of
the Year in 1970.

He is or has been president and
board chairman of the Alabama
Chamber of Commerce, president for
four terms and past board chairman of
the Warrior-Tombigbee Development
Association, a director of the Alabama
Great Southern Railway Co., chairman
of the board of the Alabama Council on
Economic Education, and an officer or
director of many other commercial,
banking, civic and philanthropic
organizations.

Among Warner’s major interests is
horse-jumping, and his stables have
produced a number of international
champions—including “Do-Right,”
winner in 1975 of most of the principal
honors in the field, among them the
Puissance, the first-place trophy in the
National Horse Show. Another of his
horses, “Tuscaloosa,” was a member of
the U.S. Equestrian Team for several
years.

Tu

 

Warner Center as viewed from across Woods Creek.

 

As if to demonstrate his conviction that exercise ws
good for the soul, Warner takes on WSL football
stalwart Tony Perry in an arm wrestling match after
the ceremony. The photographer quit shooting before
it was decided who won.

15

 

 

THOMAS PROFESSORSHIP

Children Establish Endowed Chair of Bible in Memory of Their Father

An endowed professorship of Bible in
the Department of Religion has been
established in memory of the late
Fletcher Otey Thomas by his children.

Mr. Thomas was a prominent
religious, business and civic leader in
Bedford, Va., until his death in 1948.

The new professorship in his
memory “perpetuates the teaching of
Bible as a point of major emphasis in the
religion department” in recognition of
the donors’ interest in “superior
teaching of Christian theology,”
President Robert E. R. Huntley said in
announcing the benefaction at the
University’s traditional Opening
Assembly in October.

Fletcher Otey Thomas was the father
of two Washington and Lee graduates,
Dr. John Newton Thomas of Richmond
and William O. Thomas of Bedford. His
third child, his daughter Ruth Thomas,
is married to a Washington and Lee
alumnus, John M. Stemmons of Dallas.

Fletcher Thomas was a native of
Bedford County and lived all his life in
Bedford. He was a co-founder and long-
time director of Piedmont Label Co. in
Bedford and was superintendent of the
Sunday School and a deacon and later
elder of the Bedford Presbyterian
Church. He had extensive other
commercial and farming interests and
was a member of the Bedford Town
Council and School Board as well.

Dr. John Newton Thomas, his older
son, is a 1924 Washington and Lee
graduate. He was a member of the
University’s Board of Trustees from
1938 until 1973 and was Rector
of the board for a number of years.

As Rector Emeritus, Dr. Thomas
continues to be extremely active in
board business. He is professor emeri-
tus of systematic theology at Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond.

William Thomas, a 1931 Washington
and Lee graduate, recently retired as
president of Piedmont Label Co., the
company their father founded. Like
him, William Thomas has been
extremely active in civic and church
activities in Bedford. He has been a
trustee of the Bedford Presbyterian

16

Fletcher Otey Thomas

Church, a member of the town school
board, chairman of the county school
board, and a director of the Bedford
County Memorial Hospital Inc.

Ruth Thomas married John
Stemmons in 1931. Mr. Stemmons is a
1931 W&L alumnus and was a member
of the University’s Board of Trustees
from 1965 until his retirement last
February. He is president of Industrial
Properties Corp. in Dallas.

“This benefaction does even more

 

than express devotion to Washington
and Lee and to the ideals for which it

stands and has stood over the
generations,” President Huntley said.
“In an address he delivered to our
Lee Associates four years ago this fall,
Dr. John Thomas remarked that
Washington and Lee’s capacity for
making distinctive contributions—which
is to say, its justification for continuing
to exist at all—lies in ‘the three areas of
academic excellence, concern for the

individual, and... the maintenance of
high moral standards.’

“This momentous gift from William
and John Thomas, then, does much to
guarantee that Washington and Lee will
continue to be able to meet those ideals,
in a way that reaffirms our unyielding
commitment to what John Thomas
himself called ‘the sorely needed kind of
leadership which only such excellence
can provide’.”

The Fletcher Otey Thomas
Professorship in Bible is Washington
and Lee’s sixth endowed professorship.
The oldest is the Society of the
Cincinnati professorship in
mathematics, established before the Civil
War when the Virginia branch of that
organization, of which George
Washington had been a member,
dissolved itself and gave its entire
treasury to the college Washington had
endowed.

The new Thomas Professorship is
only the second to have been endowed
by Washington and Lee alumni, and the
first to have been endowed by alumni
during their lifetimes. (The other
professorship created by an alumnus is
the S. Blount Mason Jr. Professorship,
established in 1974 from trusts which
terminated upon the death of Mr.

Mason in 1969. He had been a
prominent Baltimore insurance
executive who attended Washington and
Lee from 1901 to 1903.)

In addition to the Fletcher Otey
Thomas, the Society of the Cincinnati,
and the S. Blount Mason professorships,
Washington and Lee’s other endowed
professorships have been created by two
gifts from the Mamie F. Martel Trust of
Houston, one endowing a professorship
named for Henry S. Fox Jr. and the
other endowing a professorship named
for Mamie Fox Twyman Martel; and by
a gift from the William R. Kenan Jr.
Charitable Trust of New York,
endowing a professorship named for
Mr. Kenan.

Endowed professorships recognize
major benefactions according to
standards set by the University’s Board
of Trustees.

‘The First
‘Thomas
Professor

Dr. David Worth Sprunt, professor of
religion and University chaplain, has
been named the first Fletcher Otey
Thomas Professor of Bible.

Dr. Sprunt has taught at Washington
and Lee since 1953. He became head of

 

Dr. David Worth Sprunt

the Department of Religion in 1956 and
was named University chaplain four
years later.

He is a B.A. graduate of Davidson
College and received his bachelor’s and
doctoral degrees in theology from
Union Theological Seminary in
Richmond.

He was a chaplain in the U.S. Navy
from 1943 to 1946. He then taught
Bible and was chaplain at Southwestern
at Memphis until joining the
Washington and Lee faculty.

Dr. Sprunt’s fields of teaching
specialty include both the Old and New
Testaments. He is a member of the
National Association of Biblical
Instructors and the National Association
of College Chaplains.

His doctoral dissertation was on the
topic “Toward a Philosophy of Christian
Higher Education.” Among his writings
is the article “The Religious Faith of
Robert E. Lee,” published in the Alumni
Magazine in 1965.

He is chairman of the Virginia State
Advisory Committee to the United
States Civil Rights Commission, a
member of the Board of Visitors of
Eckerd College, and an officer in several
mental-health, retardation, and drug-
abuse service agencies in the Lexington
and Rockbridge County areas.

Other endowed professorships at
Washington and Lee are held by Dr.
Robert A. Roberts, professor of
mathematics and former head of the
department (the Society of the
Cincinnati professorship, the oldest at
the University); Dr. Severn Duvall,
professor of English and head of the
department (the Henry S. Fox Jr.
professorship); Dr. E. Claybrook
Griffith, professor of economics and
department head (the Mamie Fox
Twyman Martel professorship); Dr.
William A. Jenks, professor of history
and head of that department (the
William R. Kenan Jr. professorship);
and Dr. William W. Pusey III, professor
of German and former Dean of The
College and Acting President of the
University (the S. Blount Mason Jr.
professorship).

17

 

 

Le GAZETTE

 

Paintings and porcelain
continue to win acclaim

The brilliant paintings of Louise
Herreshoff, “an American artist
discovered,” and the priceless collection
of Chinese export porcelain which she
and her husband, Euchlin D. Reeves,
gave to Washington and Lee in 1967
continue to attract impressive public and
critical approval in exhibitions in
museums and galleries throughout the
nation.

The Reeveses’ twin legacy—more
than 80 paintings Louise Herreshoff
executed between 1897 and 1927 and
the 2,000-piece collection of late-18th-
and early-19th-century procelain they
assembled after their marriage in
194 1—will be exhibited in eight more
states between now and next fall, and
requests from museums for loan
exhibitions in 1979 and beyond are
already being received.

The highlight of the coming year
will perhaps be the return of the Reeves
Collection to its homeland. Chinese
themselves will have the opportunity to
see an important part of their own
heritage when the Museum of Natural
History, Taipei, Tatwan, exhibits the
Collection next August.

Both the paintings and the porcelain
will be on display in Dayton, Ohio, at the
Art Institute there through early
January.

The porcelain will then move to
Washington, D.C., for the prestigious
Washington Antiques Show, where the
Reeves Collection will be the major loan
exhibit.

In April the paintings of Louise
Herreshoff will be shown in Atlanta at
the Dana Gallery, Agnes Scott College.
The paintings will travel to Shreveport,
La., in May for an exhibition at the
Meadows Museum of Art at Centenary
College.

The porcelain will be on display in
June and July at the Museum of Art in
Birmingham, Ala., while the Herreshoff
paintings are scheduled to be shown at
the Witte Memorial Museum in San
Antonio, Tex., at the same time.

The Herreshoff paintings will be
exhibited in August and early
September in Charleston, W.Va., at the
Charleston Art Gallery, and then will

18

return close to home for an exhibition in
Roanoke, Va., at the Fine Arts Center
there from mid-September through
October.

This fall, both the paintings and
porcelain have been on display in
Maryland—the Herreshoff exhibition
in Salisbury at the City Hall Museum and
the Reeves Collection at Baltimore’s Peale
Museum.

Since their premiere showing in
November 1976 in the Corcoran Gallery
of Art, Washington, D.C., the Herreshoff
paintings have been on loan to the Rawls
Museum, Courtland, Va.; the Bristol Art
Museum, Bristol, R.I., where Louise
Herreshoff’s family lived and where she
and Euchlin Reeves were married; and
the Blaffer Gallery of the University of
Houston, Houston, Tex.

 

This exquisite 215-year-old plate, designed for the
Lee family, is among the Reeves Collection pieces
which will form the “centerpiece” exhibit at the
annual Washington Antiques Show Jan. 11-15 at the
Shoreham. A special WSL night for Washington-
area alumni will take place Jan. 13.

The porcelain has been shown
widely throughout the United States
since its premiere exhibition in Aflanta at
the High Museum in 1973, most
recently at the Museum of Art in
Huntsville, Ala., in addition to the Peale
Museum exhibition in Baltimore. Pieces
from the Reeves Collection remain on
indefinite loan also in the Governor’s
Mansion in Richmond and in the U.S.
State Department in Washington, D.C.

 

Scholarship fund established
in memory of G. H. Barber, 717

Washington and Lee has received a
gift of $50,000 from Mrs. G. Holbrook
Barber of Quogue, N.Y., to establish an
honor scholarship endowment in
memory of her late husband, a 1917

graduate of the University.

Income from the scholarship
endowment will be awarded annually to
the undergraduate senior who has
“made the greatest contribution to the
spirit of the campus and University life,”
taking into account participation in
University activities, helpfulness toward
others, respect for fellow students,
character, and scholarship.

Each year’s recipient of the G.
Holbrook Barber Scholarship will be
chosen by a panel consisting of the dean
of The College and two student
representatives named by the President.

Following his graduation from
Washington and Lee in 1917, Holbrook
Barber entered the College of Physicians
and Surgeons of Columbia University
and received his M.D. degree in 1921.
He was a physician in private practice in
Brooklyn, N.Y., until his retirement in
1951, and was medical director of
Manhattan Life Insurance Co. for many
years as well. He died Nov. 6, 1970.

At W&L he was a classmate of the late
Harry K.(Cy) Young, probably the most
outstanding athlete in Washington and
Lee’s history, and a classmate and
fraternity brother of the late Dean
Frank J. Gilliam, dean of students and
admissions director at W&L for more
than 40 years.

 

Honor System reaffirmed

By margins which approached
unanimous agreement, Washington and
Lee students have reaffirmed their
belief in the value and effectiveness of
the Honor System and in the penalty of
expulsion from the University upon
conviction of an offense against honor.

The conclusions come from a survey
taken last summer by the student
Executive Committee and released in
October. Questionnaires were returned
by 41 percent of the undergraduates
who were enrolled in 1976-77, with
responses distributed roughly equally
among the four classes.

-In the School of Law, more than 75
percent of the students who took part in
the survey responded positively to
identical questions. Participation in the
survey, however, was substantially lower
among law students.

More than 98 percent of the

undergraduates—575 of 583—re-
sponded “yes” to the question “Do you
value highly the concept of an Honor
System at W&L?” Almost as many—558
of 580 responding, or 96 percent—said
they believe the student body in general
shares that view.

Responses to other survey questions
showed that students have “a high level
of confidence in the trustworthiness of
other students at W&L” (91 percent)
and that they agree “that a student who
cannot be trusted should leave W&L”
(also 91 percent).

Twelve percent of the students
participating in the survey—70 of 575—
said they believe W&L’s “independent”
examination schedule “undermines
confidence in the honor and
trustworthiness” of their fellow students.

Under the “independent” exam
system, students schedule their own
final examinations during the exam
period. W&L’s faculty is currently
assessing the effectiveness of the
independent scheduling system, and it is
in connection with that evaluation that
the student E.C. conducted its survey.

Through a by-law of the University’s
charter, the Board of Trustees has given
the W&L student body exclusive
authority to “determine the |
circumstances under which and the
cause for which” a student can be
convicted “for matters involving viola-
tion of honor.” Decisions under that
procedure cannot be appealed to the
faculty or to the president or other
administrators.

Generally, “violations of honor” are
defined as lying, cheating and stealing.

According to the Ring-tum Phi, the
student newspaper, there were eight
private trials during the 1976-77 school
year, leading to three convictions.

 

Buxton retires From Board;
elected Trustee Emeritus

J. Stewart Buxton, the senior member
of Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees, retired from active board
membership in October and was elected
Trustee Emeritus by his fellow board
members.

Buxton is a 1936 graduate in
commerce of Washington and Lee. He
was elected to membership on the W&L
board in 1953.

In a formal resolution, the board
credited Buxton with major service to
the University in terms of student
recruitment, alumni relations, his own
benefactions, and his success at

 

J. Stewart Buxton

persuading others, “including members
of this board,” to follow his example. To
board business, the resolution said, he
brought “wisdom, quiet leadership and
gentle humor.”

Buxton is a retired vice president of
Mitchell, Hutchins & Co. Inc., a
Memphis, Tenn., securities brokerage
firm.

 

$10,000 bequest from
91, 93 graduate

Washington and Lee has received a
bequest of $10,000 under the will of the

 

Mrs. E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., at podium, represented Washington and Lee and the University’s alumni,

late Frank A. Nelson of Chattanooga to
establish a scholarship endowment
honoring his father, Alexander
Lockhart Nelson, who taught
mathematics at Washington and Lee for
more than half a century.

Frank Nelson was an 1891 B.A.
graduate of Washington and Lee and
received his law degree from the
University in 1893. He died in 1952. His
bequest to Washington and Lee came
from a trust created under his will for
the lifetime of his widow. Mrs. Nelson
died last Aug. 19.

Alexander L. Nelson, in whose
memory the bequest was made, taught
mathematics at Washington College and
Washington and Lee University from
1854 until 1906, believed to be the
longest term of service by any professor
in W&L’s history. He was born in Nelson
County and received his education at
Washington College. He taught at the
University of Virginia for several years
before returning to his alma mater as
Cincinnati professor of mathematics.

 

Drama on campus

The University Theatre, formerly the
Troubadours, opened the 1977-78 year
with an innovative production of
Sophocles’ Oedipus Rex. The season’s
second production was Beaux Stratagem,
the Restoration comedy by George
Farquhar. Productions scheduled for the
Winter Term are O’Neill’s Desire
Under the Elms and a contemporary

students, faculty, and Board of Trustees (of which her husband is rector) at October ceremony marking the
200th anniversary of legislative action which resulted in the creation of Rockbridge County and Lexington
as the county seat. Mrs. Nuckols said “being from somewhere else” makes WSL alumni and their families

appreciate “this special city and this special county” all the more every time they return.

19

comedy, The Ritz, both to be directed by
drama majors as their senior thesis
projects. The British psychological
drama Butley and a pair of plays by a
University Theatre “stock company” will
be offered near the end of the year.

 

Lewis Hall photos
shown at the Corcoran

“Lewis Hall Portfolio,” two dozen
abstract and semi-abstract photographs
taken by University Photographer Sally
Mann, were shown in a one-woman
exhibition this fall in Washington’s
Corcoran Gallery of Art.

The black-and-white series is drawn
from photographs she took during
construction of the University’s new law
building. The views were inspired by the
shapes and materials she saw at the site.

The portfolio exhibited in the
Corcoran is owned by W&L and is part
of the University’s permanent art
collection. Prints from the Lewis Hall
series are included in a number of other
important public and private collections,
including those of Joseph Hirshhorn
and the Polaroid Corp.

The prestigious Ferguson Grant of
the Friends of Photography Society of
Carmel, Calif., helped underwrite the
project.

In a flattering review of the
exhibition, Benjamin Forgey, chief art
critic for the Washington Star, spoke of
Mann’s photos as “mind-boggling . . .
The predominant images . . . involve a

 

Lewis Hall in soft focus, from the “Lewis Hall
Portfolio” by Sally Mann (collection of Washington
and Lee University).

sort of sorcery by light.” He described
her photos as “signposts, breath-taking
pauses between experiences whose
essential nature is inner and abstract.”

The Corcoran was the scene a year
ago of the national premiere exhibition
of paintings by Louise Herreshoff,
another woman with a Washington and
Lee association. Herreshoff gave almost
all her works—more than 100 in all—to
the University in 1967, at the same time
when she and her husband, Euchlin D.
Reeves, ’27L, gave W&L their 2,000-
piece collection of Chinese export
porcelain.

 

Speakers

Visiting lecturers during September
and October included:
—John Merrill, journalism professor

 

Visitors to McCormick Library in connection with the gift of Alexander papers are (seated) Mrs. Thomas
Williams, Mrs. J. Benson Hoge, and Mrs. John M. B. Lewis; (standing) Thomas Williams, William Anderson
Williams, Mrs. Frederick Stone, and Mr. and Mrs. Charles S. McNulty Jr.

20

at the University of Missouri, former
reporter and foreign correspondent for
a number of American and European
newspapers and author of Ethics and the
Press, on the topic “From Press Freedom
to Press Responsibility: A Good Trend
or Bad?”;

—Fielder Cook, a 1947 W&L
graduate (and recipient in 1973 of an
honorary Doctor of Letters degree),
motion-picture and television director,
for a week-long series of class sessions
and informal meetings with film
students in the journalism department;

—James McPherson, short-story
author, writer-in-residence at the
University of Virginia and contributing
editor of Atlantic Monthly, for a reading
from and commentary on his own
works, under the sponsorship of W&L’s
Glasgow Endowment for the arts;

—Sir Robert Mark, recently retired
director of New Scotland Yard, the
English counterpart of the FBI, on
international terrorism and the
differences between American and
British legal and penal systems,
sponsored by “Contact,” the annual
student-organized symposium;

—Helen Lowenthal, British art
historian and former education officer
of the Victoria and Albert Museum in
England, for two lectures, “The Grand
Tour” and “It Happened in the
Garden”;

—The Hon. Edward Eveleigh, judge
of England’s High Court of Justice,
Queen’s Bench Division, for a lecture on
the topic “From Arrest to Verdict in an
English Criminal Court.”

 

Gift to McCormick
strengthens collection

Mrs. Thomas Williams of Virginia
Beach has made a gift to McCormick
Library that extends the depth of its
collection of Anderson and Alexander
family papers (1755-1958). The gift
consists of 27 letters and the 1858 diary
of William Dandridge Alexander, a
kinsman of William Alexander
Anderson (1842-1930).

Mrs. Williams is a granddaughter of
William A. Anderson, a trustee of
Washington and Lee, whose papers are
an important part of the collection. She
visited the library in connection with the
gift and was accompanied by several
members of the family, some of whom
are also grandchildren of Anderson:
Mrs. J. Benson Hoge of Lynchburg,
Mrs. John M. B. Lewis of Roanoke, Mrs.
Frederick Stone of Hardy, Va., and

 

Charles S. McNulty Jr., 37, of Roanoke.
Another grandchild, Gen. William
Anderson McNulty, U.S.A. retired, of
Beaufort, N.C., could not be present.
Other kinsmen visiting W&L were Mrs.
Charles S. McNulty Jr., and Mrs.
Williams’ husband and their son,
William Anderson Williams.

 

New terrace and plantings
dedicated at Lee Chapel

The Garden Club of Virginia
officially presented a new terrace and
surrounding plantings at Lee Chapel to
the University in a ceremony this fall.

The gift from the 45-member club
organization was designed by W.
Thomas Borellis, an associate in the
Pittsburgh firm of GWSM Inc., the
University’s landscape architects.

The Garden Club originally
landscaped the entrance to the Chapel
in 1934. The new project was part of a
program to “revisit” sites of earlier
projects in connection with the national
Bicentennial. The Garden Club has
spent more than $2 million on garden
preservation and public projects,
including the two Chapel projects, since

1929.

 

News of students

The annual Lewis Kerr Johnson
Scholarships in commerce have been
awarded to Jerry M. Baird of Fort
Worth, Tex., a senior, and Douglas A.
Byrd of Baton Rouge, La., a junior.
Baird had received the L. K. Johnson
grant in his junior year also; Byrd will
be eligible for a renewal of his
scholarship again next year. The
Johnson Scholarship endowment was
established in 1974 by alumni of Dr.
Johnson, who retired from teaching that
year after more than four decades in the
Department of Business Administration.

—James G. Sheridan Jr., a senior
from Lexington, has been awarded a
Rotary Club grant for a year of
postgraduate study in Denmark.
Sheridan, the son of James G. Sheridan
Sr., 50, is a Phi Beta Kappa student who
will receive his degree next spring in
chemistry and physics.

—A team from Washington and Lee
conducted a professional archaeological
survey on commission from the National
Park Service in the northern section of
the Shenandoah National Park over the
summer. The researchers were John
Armstrong, a 1977 graduate who is at

    

New Lee Chapel terrace is gift of the Garden Club of Virginia.

W&L this year as the Liberty Hall
Postgraduate Scholar; Kurt Russ, a
senior from Buena Vista, and John M.
McDaniel, assistant professor of
anthropology and director of the Liberty
Hall archaeological excavation which has
been under way for three years. The
National Park Service survey was
designed to determine whether any sites
of historic or prehistoric significance are
located in an area designated for
development as a visitors’ center.

—WLUR-FM, the University’s
student-operated radio station, was part
of a statewide non-commercial radio
network set up to cover Virginia election
returns in November.

—W&L’s debate team locked horns
this fall with colleagues from the United
Kingdom in two tongue-in-cheek
debates—one, with a team from the
University of Edinburgh on the topic
“Resolved: That America Needs a
Monarchy” (democracy was the victor,
by audience vote), and the other, against
a pair of British students who had won a
nationwide competition last year, on the
topic “Resolved: That Pornography is
Preferable to Censorship” (the audience

agreed).

 

 

 

 

 

Faculty activity

—I. Taylor Sanders I], official
University Historian and associate
professor of history, was the keynote
speaker at the 82nd annual convention
of the United Daughters of the
Confederacy, Virginia Division. He
discussed Thomas L. Connelly’s new
and controversial re-evaluation of the

life and career of Robert E. Lee, The
Marble Man. At the convention, the
UDC presented Sanders with its
Jefferson Davis Historical Medal in
recognition of his contributions in the
field of historic preservation and as
University Historian.

—Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of
economics and consultant to a number
of the nation’s largest regulated utility
firms, was the opening speaker in
November at an institute sponsored by
the American Bar Association on
“Current Issues in the Regulation of
Public Utilities.” He is also teaching a
course one day a week this autumn in
“Public Utility Economics and Public
Policy” in a special graduate program
sponsored by American Telephone &
Telegraph Co. through Pace University
of New York.

—Lawrence D. Gaughan, professor of
law, is chairman of a National Council
on Family Relations task force studying
mental health as an area of concern in
planning for a national health-insurance
program. Gaughan also delivered a
paper entitled “Legal Issues in Sex
Counseling and Therapy” this fall to the
American Association of Sex Educators,
Counselors and Therapists. Family law
is among Gaughan’s areas of professional
specialty.

—Lewis G. John, dean of students
and associate professor of politics, has
been named director of the division of
government relations and legislation for
the National Association of Student
Personnel Administrators. In his new
capacity, Dean John becomes a member
of the association’s executive committee
as well.

21

 

 

 

[] You’re going to find this hard to
believe, but we’ve succeeded in coming
up with yet another entry for your list
of “Things That Make W&L and
Lexington Unique.” (You _ probably
thought we had _ exhausted that
catalogue long ago, but believe us,
we ve only just scratched the surface.)

The latest is snails.

It all started back about 90 years ago,
when Dr. Howe, later of Howe Hall
fame, was traveling in Europe, and he
noticed some unusual-looking land
snails in London, with shells of all
different colors and shapes. Ever the
scientist, even whilst on holiday, he
scooped up a bunch of them and
brought them back to Lexington, just
to see what would happen to them ina
different environment.

Well, if you’re a snail person, and
there are snail people in the world,
what happened is mind-boggling.

Dr. Howe took his imported snails—
Cepaea nemoralis to their admirers and
close friends—and deposited a few of
them here, more of them there, all
around town.

And now, many dozen _ snail
generations later, it has been
discovered that Dr. Howe’s snails have
mutated grandly, adapting not only to
the New World but also to new
neighborhoods.

From his original pedigreed stock
have sprung whole new breeds of
snails, not through mixing with other
kinds of snails (apparently, they are
fastidious in this regard), but through
their very own genetic transformations
in response to nuances’ of
environment. There are now Liberty
Hall snails, Bean’s Bottom snails,
Davidson Park snails, and who knows
how many other varieties—all as
different from one another today as
their ancestors were identical less than
acentury ago. Mutant Lexington snails
have even been found in Harrisonburg.
(Speculation is that a student or a
tourist carried them there; they are not
believed to have galloped up the
interstate under their own power.)

One of the world’s snail people is
named Sarah Gagnon, and she is
completing her Ph.D. in ecology and
systematics at Cornell.

Her dissertation research is on Dr.
Howe’s snails.

She is investigating three significant.

VW
ef BITS AND PIECES

variables that have developed in our
snail population—the time of day
when they’re active (there are, it seems,
morning snails and night snails, just
like people). the difference in
temperature each kind prefers (the
Liberty Hall snails and the Davidson
Park snails absolutely do not get along
in this particular), and __ their
preference as to humidity (the
Sopping-Wets vs. the Merely Moists).
She has hundreds of Howe snails up at
Cornell, residing in a refrigerator,
where their metabolism slows to,
ahem, a snail’s pace, thus providing
her with a constant supply of research
specimens.

Dr. Howe made careful notes about
where and when he freed his London
snails, and his records play an

important part in Gagnon’s studies.

 

Adding to Lexington’s fame.

Dr. Gary Dobbs of W&L’s biology
department, who is acquainted with
Gagnon’s’ research through a
graduate-school friend who is now her
dissertation advisor, says the snail
phenomenon is “a classic example of
the success of an introduced species.”

As for Sarah Gagnon, she says
Lexington is even more famous than
we realize “in certain academic
circles.”

[_] People on campus still get tickled at
what might be the ultimate Absent-
Minded Professor story, which
involved (who else?) Dr. Jefferson
Davis Futch III of the history
department.

It seems that Dr. and Mrs. William
A. Jenks (he’s head of the history
department) had an eminent historian

from a German university as their
guest in Lexington for a week or two
last year. The visiting scholar’s field of
specialty matched the scheduled topic
in Dr. Futch’s fabled European history
class one day, so he was invited to be
guest lecturer. After class, Drs. Futch
and Jenks and the visitor headed for
lunch—and it was decided to go in Dr.
F.’s car. Which panicked him—
because, as usual, he had forgotten
where he parked it that morning. After
looking in one lot and then another,
Dr. F. returned to Dr. Jenks and the
guest and said, in a state of
considerable embarrassment at having
to admit it in front of a visitor, “I’m
afraid the car is simply lost.” To
which the sympathetic German
professor replied, “Ach—ve vill help
you find it. But  first—can you
remember vhat color it is?”

[_] I was walking down the Colonnade
the other evening, slowly (I guess), all
bent over, probably the way Arnold
Toynbee walked down it as he thought
his great profound thoughts; and I
nearly collided with an eminent
professor who was walking the other
way. What weighty and important
matters you appear to have on your
mind, he remarked. No, I had to admit
(for the Honor System hangs over);
what I was doing was looking at the
pattern and texture of the ancient
bricks. Hardly an item for Dean Watt’s
“Report on Professional Activity.”
Before this great teacher and scholar I
felt like a cluck.

And so it was again the very next
day, when the last issue of the alumni
magazine came out, and the scientists
saw what I had written about their new
computer. I had mixed up eight-bit
bytes and three-byte words hopelessly,
and it turned out I didn’t know a
floppy disc from a Donny Osmond
record (which it resembles precisely).

The computer magicians should
have expected no more, however,
from a textured-brick philosopher,
and they shouldn’t have all left on
vacation the week of the magazine
deadline. So for particulars as to why
and how computers operate, call Dr.
‘Thomas C. Imeson directly. As for me,
I'll be back out on the Colonnade,
imitating Mr. Toynbee.

—R.S.K.

 

22

 

 

FALL SPORTS

McHenry Steps Down as Football Coach After Generals Win Final Game

Coach William D. (Bill) McHenry
closed out five years as head football
coach with a 20-18 win over Georgetown
University. McHenry announced
immediately after the game that he was
stepping down. He will devote full time
to his duties as athletic director and
head of the Department of Physical
Education.

McHenry, a 1954 graduate of W&L,
joined the University’s faculty in the fall
of 1971 as athletic director and
department head. He assumed the
position of head football coach in 1973.

He was an outstanding center on the
Generals’ football teams of 1951, 1952,
and 1953. He was also a star lacrosse
player. He was selected for the 1953
Blue-Gray football game and the
College All-Star Game in 1954. Before
coming to W&L, McHenry coached at
Pennsylvania Military College, Williams
College, and was football coach, lacrosse
coach, and athletic director at Lebanon
Valley College in Annville, Pa.

No successor has been named.
McHenry is beginning an immediate
search for a head coach who will rebuild
the Washington and Lee football
program.

This year’s season closed on a
winning note, but the overall record was
three wins and eight losses. The
Generals were in fourth place in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference. W&L
victories came over the University of
the South at Sewanee, 21-14,
Bridgewater College, 33-13, and
Georgetown. Two of the defeats came at
the hands of nationally ranked teams:
Maryville College of Tennessee and
long-time rival Hampden-Sydney.

There were some bright spots in the
season. One of the most notable was
running back Stewart Atkinson of
Atlanta. During the Bridgewater game,
he rushed for 215 yards, setting a new
W&L record. The old record, 205 yards,
was set in 1952 by Randy Boyles. In the
same game, Atkinson scampered 82
yards from scrimmage for a touchdown,
the second longest run in the W&L
record books. Only Doug Martin,
playing with the undefeated 1960 team,

William D. (Bill) McHenry

Stewart Atkinson on his way to an 82-yard touch-

‘down in Parents’ Weekend game against Bridgewater.

 

ran farther. He went 85 yards for the
score.

Quarterback Ted Hissey’s
performance during the first few games
of the season ranked him very high in
the conference for his passing, but
injuries during the season put him out
of the running for conference honors.

The soccer Generals under Rolf
Piranian, got off to a fast start winning
five of the first six matches. But then
they dropped seven straight, to foes like
Navy, the University of Virginia,
Hampden-Sydney, the University of
Richmond, Elizabethtown College, VMI,
Lynchburg and Madison.

Led by midfielder Dave Williams’s
five goals and forward Howie Collier’s
three goals and four assists, the Generals
completed the ODAC season at two wins
and two losses. The Generals won the
Virginia Wesleyan tournament, and the
title of the VISA Western Division II.
They lost to UVA for the Western
Division championship.

Coach Richard Miller’s cross country
team completed the dual meet season at
10-5, the most wins ever for a W&L
cross country team. Co-captains Allen
Weeks and Bill Welch have run well, as
have Richard Bird, Bob Bates and
freshmen Chris Daniel and Hans
Furuland.

W&L’s newest intercollegiate team,
the water polo Generals, completed their
first season with a record of 11-9. The
team hosted and finished second in the
Virginia State Championships, won by
the University of Richmond, and
finished fifth in the Mid-Atlantic Water
Polo Conference behind Slippery Rock,
Columbia, Penn State and Villanova.
Co-captains Keith Romich and Bif
Martin and goalie Will Hodges were
named all-state for 1977.

The three remaining fall teams
played abbreviated schedules. The
varsity tennis team hosted a fall
invitational tournament with Virginia,
Maryland and Ohio as guests, and
ended their fall season at 1-4.

The JV tennis team won one of two
matches, while the JV soccer Generals
were even at two wins and two losses.

23

CHAPTER NEWS

ROANOKE. Despite a thunderstorm
and a temporary power blackout, a large
and enthusiastic group of alumni and
spouses was on hand Aug. 12 to
welcome the chapter’s eight
undergraduate and two law school
freshmen and their families. The
reception, held at the Roanoke Country
Club, was arranged by William L.
Andrews III, 72, president of the
chapter, and James M. Turner, ’67, ’71L,
secretary and treasurer. Alumni
secretary Bill Washburn, ’40,
represented the University, introduced
the freshmen, and expressed an official
welcome. The chapter was pleased to
have as their special guests Prof. and
Mrs. Roger Groot of the law school,
Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary, and John M.
Duckworth, ’71, a University
development associate and Mrs.
Duckworth. Andrews expressed
appreciation for enthusiastic alumni
interest and announced plans for other
chapter activities.

CHARLOTTE. A congenial group of
alumni and wives gathered at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. W. Joseph Dozier, ’70,
on Aug. 17, for a barbeque in honor of
the four entering freshmen from
Charlotte. Bill Washburn, ’40, Buddy
Atkins, 68, and John C. Hollister, ’58,
the new development associate for the
southeastern area, were present. Ina
short business meeting, the following
officers were elected: Alan W. Lee, ’69,
president; Dennis E. Myers III, "73, vice
president; Gary L. Murphy, ’70,
secretary; and Lat W. Purser III, ’73,
treasurer.

HOUSTON. Fourteen area students
who entered Washington and Lee this
fall were the guests of honor at a
reception Aug. 20 in the home of
Thomas D. Anderson, a Trustee of
W&L. The party featured Texas-style
barbeque. In addition to alumni and the
record number of freshmen from the
Houston area were a group of current
students. On Sept. 10, the chapter held
a cocktail-buffet at the Sarah Blaffer

24

   
   

  

 
 

ne atin it pein ne

right) John Schuber, ’44, Alan W. Lee, ’69, and

CHARLOTTE—At gathering for incoming freshmen were (
their wives (left) Mrs. Lee and Mrs. Schuber.

CHARLOTTE—John C. Hollister, 58, (right) with Shug Crist, Luther Dudley, ’76, Mrs. Hollister, and
Elizabeth Hollister.

   

HOUSTON— At Herreshoff paintings opening, Allen B. Craig III, 68, Donald B. McFall, ’64, ’69L,
James W. Whitehead, Upton Beall, ’51, (background), W. B. (Buck) Ogilvie Jr., ’64, and Mrs. Craig.

Gallery to honor the visit of the exhibit
of Louise Herreshoff’s paintings. Special
guests from the University included
President and Mrs. Huntley, Mr. and
Mrs. Whitehead, and Mr. and Mrs.
Hotchkiss. Arrangements for the
outstanding affair were made by Allen
B. Craig III, 68, who was assisted by W.
B. (Buck) Ogilvie, 64, and others.
Anderson again served as host.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. On Aug.
23, members of the chapter and their
wives met at Old South Mountain Inn
between Fredericksburg and
Hagerstown, Md., for a reception and
dinner in honor of incoming freshmen,
current students and their families. The
chapter was especially pleased to have
Dean Emeritus James G. Leyburn at the
dinner. Other guests included Bill

 

   

ig

CUMBERLAND VALLEY— New officers J.
Hamp Tisdale, ’74, John B. Hoke Jr., ’60, R. Noel
Spence, ‘56.

aye

Duplessie.

   

oat os

and refreshments.

Washburn, ’40, L. C. (Buddy) Atkins,
68, and John M. Duckworth, "71. Dr.
George I. Smith Jr., 56, president of the
chapter, expressed special congratu-
lations and welcomed the new fresh-
men. In a brief business session the
following officers were elected:
president, John B. Hoke Jr., 60; vice
president, R. Noel Spence, ’56;
secretary-treasurer, J. Hamp Tisdale,

PALMETTO—T. B. Bryant Jr., ’"28L, (foreground left) of Orangeburg, S.C., enjoys good fellowship

   

WASHINGTON—Richard T. Wright, ’42, with
Randolph D. Rouse, ’39, at whose home the party
was held.

WASHINGTON—Suidney Lyons ( right) with freshman James J. Duplessie and his parents, Mr. and Mrs.

    

  

a alt ati
ea ae

°74L. Elected board directors were
Edward P. Thomas Jr., 50, Judge
Robert E. Clapp Jr., ’30, John M.
McCardell, ’37, Charles R. Beall, 56, and
James B. Crawford III, ’67, ‘72L.

PALMETTO. The chapter, at a party
held Aug. 24 in the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Morris Lumpkin of Columbia, S.C.,
extended congratulations and a special

 

welcome to the eight entering freshmen
from the area. T. Patton Adams IV
presided over the informal program and
thanked several ladies of the chapter
who provided table decorations, superb
hors d’oeuvres, food and other
refreshments. Bill Washburn, ’40, and
Buddy Atkins, ’68, added their welcome
and told the freshmen what they might
expect during the first week’s activities.
The meeting concluded with thanks to
Larry Lumpkin, ’76, and his parents for
their warm hospitality.

WASHINGTON. The Arlington home
of Randolph D. Rouse, ’39, was the
beautiful setting for the chapter’s annual
reception and buffet dinner. The gala
affair, held on Aug. 25 to honor current
and incoming students and their
parents, attracted a large and friendly
crowd of alumni and their wives.
Arrangements were made by James A.
Meriwether, ’70, president of the
chapter, who welcomed the group. Bill
Washburn, ’40, and Buddy Atkins, ’68,
were on hand to add some advice to the
freshmen and their families concerning
the first weeks of college. Assisted by
excellent weather and a near-full moon,
the meeting concluded with a rendition
of the “Washington and Lee Swing.”

NEW YORK. A substantial and
ebullient group of alumni greeted 40
incoming Washington and Lee freshmen
from the metropolitan area and their
parents at the Metropolitan Club in
Manhattan on Aug. 30. Don McMillan,
"72, and Robert (Bo) Brookby, ’72, made
brief comments on student life. Color
slides of the campus were shown and the
meeting concluded with a question and
answer session for the freshmen and
their parents. Arrangements for the
meeting were made by Jaroslav A.
Drabek, ’53, president of the New York
chapter and other chapter officers. Bill
Washburn, Buddy Atkins and their
wives were also present.

PHILADELPHIA. Mr. and Mrs.
Edwin J. Foltz and the Philadelphia
chapter hosted a cocktail-reception and

25

 

CHAPTER NEWS

dinner on Aug. 31 at the Philadelphia
Country Club in Gladwyne, Pa.
Honored guests were President and
Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley and the
chapter’s entering freshmen and their
parents. The large number of alumni
and guests were welcomed by the
Huntleys and the Foltzes during the
cocktail reception. Among the musical
selections played during the evening was
a stirring rendition of the “W&L Swing.”
The chapter was pleased to have Mr.
and Mrs. I. M. Scott of Philadelphia, a
University Trustee, and Stewart Epley, a
development staff associate from New
York. Other representatives of the
University attending were Farris
Hotchkiss, director of development, L.
C. Atkins, assistant alumni secretary, Bill
Washburn, alumni secretary, and their
wives. John Kelly, president of the
Philadelphia chapter, presided at the
meeting. Foltz, president of the
Washington and Lee Alumni
Association, welcomed alumni, the
freshmen and their parents, and
introduced the guests. President
Huntley made a report on the
University, which was well received.

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM. Members
of the chapter were pleased to gather in
Lexington Sept. 28 for a reception,
dinner and tour of the new law school
building—Lewis Hall. The occasion
began with cocktails at the Alumni
House, followed by dinner in the
University dining hall and the tour of
Lewis Hall. A brief business session held
during the dinner resulted in the
election of the following officers: Ross
V. Hersey, ’40, president; Dr. Randolph
T. Shields Jr., ’32, vice president;
Thomas H. Yancey, ’77, secretary-
treasurer. Bill Washburn and Buddy
Atkins also attended the meeting and
warmly welcomed the chapter on behalf
of the University.

MIDDLE TENNESSEE. Interested
alumni met in the offices of James F.
Gallivan, 51, in the Commerce Union
Bank in Nashville on Aug. 26 to discuss
the establishment of an organized

26

aan

Huntley, and Bruce Phillips, ’73.

PHILADELPHIA—At gala gathering, Mrs. Washburn, Trustee I. M. Scott, Farris Hotchkiss, President |

PHILADELPHIA—John Kelly (right) presides; at head table, Mrs. Edward J. Foltz, President Huntley, host

   

Edward Foltz, Mrs. Farris Hotchkiss, and Mrs. I. M. Scott.

Ned Coslett, ’70.

alumni chapter in Middle Tennessee.
Geographical boundaries were set and
operating committees were formed.
Benjamin D. S. Gambill Jr., 67, was
appointed to spearhead the formal
organization of the chapter and was
requested to make plans for a full
meeting of all alumni during the fall.
The group was pleased to have the

 

national secretary, Bill Washburn, ’40,
and his assistant, L. C. (Buddy) Atkins,
68, present for the discussion.
Following the business session, a large
number of Nashville alumni attended a
party at the home of Clay T. Jackson,
°76. Welcomed at the party were current
students and two freshmen from the
area.

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

Why not a WSL rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
hand-rubbed in

black lacquer with gold trim. It is

rock maple,

an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in

memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$75.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$60.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:
Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and_ telephone
number.

 

 

 

J. M. Wisdom, ’25

1925

JOHN MINor WIspDoM was selected by the New
Orleans States-Item as the Man of the Century
from New Orleans in the field of law. The
States-Item, celebrating its hundredth
anniversary on June 6, 1977, selected 12
categories and the man or woman in each field
who had made the most significant contribution
in their field. Although the selectees must have
had a major impact on New Orleans, their
activities should have been substantial enough
to win recognition beyond the city limits.
Wisdom was one of three living selectees. He
recently took senior status after 20 years on the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. He is
presiding judge of the Multi-district Litigation —
Panel (Court), of which he has been a member
for nine years, and is a member of the Special
Railway Court under the Railway Act to
reorganize the northeast railway system. He is
believed to have been the only judge to serve
simultaneously as an active member of three
courts. He has an LLB from Tulane (1929) and
an LLD from Oberlin (1963). He was a member
of the Board of Trustes of Washington and Lee
from 1957 to 1975 and has been a Trustee
Emeritus since.

1928

After 23 years as professor of Bible and religion
at Hampden-Sydney College, Dr. JosepH B.
CLOWER and his wife, Mary, retired to the
family farm in Woodstock, Va. Hampden-
Sydney awarded the Clowers the Albert Sydney
Sullivan Medallion in 1976.

1929

HENRY POELLNITZ JOHNSTON SR. was the
speaker at the DeVane family reunion on Sept.
17 at Moore’s Creek Battlefield, N.C. His
subject was “Genealogy.” Rev. William W. (Bill)
Glass ’29 had a part in the ceremony. Following
the reunion Johnston made a family history
research trip to Ivanhoe, Tomahawk, Black
River, and Bennettsville Battleground. He was
accompanied on this trip by classmate Harrison
Foster (Spunky) Edwards.

1931

EDWARD M. RILEY retired as director of
research for the Colonial Williamsburg
Foundation in December, 1976, and also as a
lecturer in history at the College of William and
Mary in June, 1977. Riley was instrumental in
founding the apprenticeship program to
prepare students to work in the field of
preservation and interpretation of historical
sites. He is head of the Virginia Colonial
Records Projects and chairman of the
publications committee and the Committee of
Historians for the Virginia Independence
Bicentennial Commission.

27

 

CLASS NOTES

1932

JaMEs S. PoLiak works with Creative Film Arts
of Hollywood, Calif., and is author of the novel
The Golden Egg. He is chairman of the board of
trustees of the Robert and Jessica Ryan
Foundation.

1934

ARTHUR TONSMEIRE JR., president and board
chairman of the First Southern Federal Savings
and Loan Association of Mobile, Ala., has been
elected to the council of the International
Union of Building Societies, an international
association that represents the savings and loan
industry throughout the world. Tonsmeire is
one of six council members from the United
States.

1937

Haro_p C. Macoon has retired from general
insurance business and divides his time between
Buffalo, N.Y. and Pompano Beach, Fla.

1938

PowELL G.tass Jr., publisher and general
manager of The News and The Daily Advance of
Lynchburg, was elected treasurer of the
Virginia Press Association after serving on the
board for seven years. Active in civic affairs,
Glass also has served as a member of the
President’s Advisory Committee at Randolph-
Macon Women’s College. Glass studied at the
London School of Economics and the law
school at New York University and after World
War II, received a law degree from the
University of Virginia. In 1956, he did graduate
work at the University of Pennsylvania and
became associate professor of law at Mercer
University in Macon, Ga. In addition to his
work with the Virginia Press Association, Glass
has served on the boards of the United Givers
Fund of Lynchburg, the Lynchburg chapter of
the American Cancer Society, and Lynchburg
Chamber of Commerce.

1939

GEORGE W. WILSON, board chairman and chief
executive officer of Peoples Bank and Trust Co.
of Alpena, Mich., has been named to the
presidency of the Michigan Bankers
Association. He had served as first vice
president and legislative chairman during this
past year. Wilson joined Peoples Bank in 1957
as vice president and became its fourth
president in January, 1961. In 1977 he became
board chairman and retained chief executive
responsibilities. After graduation from
Washington and Lee, Wilson joined the
National Bank of Detroit; later service with the
Michigan state banking department was
interrupted by World War II service in the
Army. He then went to the United California
Bank in Los Angeles and the Dabbs-Sullivan

28

Investment Company in Little Rock, Ark.,
before moving to the Peoples Bank in Alpena in
1957. His civicand community activities include
service as United Way president, Industrial
Development Corporation treasurer, director

' of the Chamber of Commerce and chairman of

the board of deacons of the Greater Michigan
Foundation, Small Business Administration
Advisory Council, Mackinac Bridge Authority
and the Michigan Automated Clearing House
Association. He and his wife, the former Helen
Leavitt, have three married daughters.

194]

F. Harvey KIBLING is a senior account
representative for the recently opened
Bedford, N.H., office of the Standard Register
Co.

Emit C. RASSMAN, an attorney in Midland,
Texas, was awarded an honorary doctor of laws
degree by Baylor University in August, 1977.

1942

ROBERT C. WALKER, chairman of the board and
president of the United Virginia Bank in
Williamsburg, Va., has been named to a three-
year term on the board of trustees of the
Endowment Association of the College of
William and Mary. Walker is also a member of
the board of directors of the Williamsburg-
James City County Chamber of Commerce, and
a member of the board of the Williamsburg
Community Hospital.

RAYMOND B. WHITAKER, an attorney in Casper,
Wyo., is one of the principals involved in a libel
suit against the Times Mirror Co., publisher of
the Los Angeles Times. The Supreme Court
recently refused to review the lower court’s
ruling which let stand the ruling that the Times
Mirror Co. could be sued for libel by principals
in a state far removed from the paper’s home
base and predominant circulation area.

1943

DONALD E. GARRETSON has been elected to the
position of corporate vice president of finance
by the board of directors of 3M Co. In this
position, Garretson will have responsibility for
the controller, treasurer, tax, and internal
auditing organizations. Garretson joined 3M
Co. in 1950 and has served as treasurer since
1967, and as corporate vice president and
treasurer since 1972. Prior to that, he had
experience in internal auditing, general
accounting and as_ assistant treasurer.
Garretson is director of First Merchants State
Bank, chairman of the board of trustees of
Macalester College, a director and former past
president of the United Way of the St. Paul area
and a director of the St. Paul Winter Carnival
Association. He is married to the former Adele
F. Anderson and the couple have three sons
and two daughters.

   

A. F. Sisk Jr, 50

1946

Dr. Davip LEwIs, a science teacher at Wheaton
High School, is a member of the coaching staff
at two Wheaton, Md., high schools. He is the
assistant football coach at Wheaton, and
coaches wrestling at Kennedy High School. The
head football coach at Kennedy is another W&L
graduate, Wes Abrams, ’53.

1947

BRENT BREEDIN, a Washington consultant-
editor has been appointed director of public
relations for Georgetown Univeristy. Since
1975, Breedin has served various national
organizations of the higher education
community in publication and public relations
areas. His most recent tour of duty in
Washington, D.C., began in 1966 when he left
his position as director of information services
at Clemson University to become director of
editorial services for the former American
College Public Relations Association. Before
entering business for himself, Breedin
managed the ERIC Clearinghouse on Higher
Education for George Washington University
and was director of publications for the Council
on Library Resources. Breedin first came to
Washington in 1958 as press and research aide
to U.S. Senator Strom Thurmond and in 1960
joined the duPont Company’s public relations
department in Wilmington, Del. Breedin is a
member of the National Press Club and

Edpress.
1949

STANLEY KAMEN, heads a motion picture
department of the William Morris Agency, the
world’s oldest, and perhaps largest, talent
agency. Many Hollywood stars have entrusted
their careers to Kamen. He has been with the
agency for over a quarter century. Kamen has
contributed to such William Morris packages as
“Love Story,” “The Summer of ’42,” “Day of the
Jackal,” and “The Sterile Cuckoo.” Kamen’s
office is in Beverly Hills and he has a staff of 11
agents.

G. Bruce WEST is teaching English at Tabor
Academy in Marion, Mass., where he resides
with his wife, Joyce, and their five youngsters.
Tabor is a boy’s preparatory school with an
enrollment of about 500 students. West is also a
member of the local school board.

1950

A. FLETCHER SISK JR., of Easton, Md., has been
awarded the chartered life underwriter
designation from American College, a Bryn
Mawr, Pa., institution for the advancement of
learning and professionalism in life insurance
and related financial sciences. Sisk began his
insurance career in 1968 with Connecticut
General Life Insurance. Prior to that he was
associated with Albert W. Sisk & Son in Preston.
He is also on the boards of Preston Trucking
Co., Inc., and Provident State Bank.

 

J. ARTHUR WoobD, cartoonist for the United
States Independent Telephone Association and
editor of its newsletter is also a collector of
cartoons. The walls of his Rockville, Md., home
are lined with cartoons of all kinds. Wood
estimates that over the years he has collected
15,000 drawings. His first cartooning job was
with the Washington Star. During World War II
he served in the Navy and did drawings for All
Hands. In 1950 he became editorial cartoonist
for the Richmond News Leader. He stayed in
Richmond six years and then moved to
Pittsburgh to become chief editorial cartoonist
for the Press. In 1963 he returned to
Washington and his current position.

1951

ROBERT ‘T. PITTMAN, editor of the St.
Petersburg Times for the last 14 years, has been
elected president of the National Conference of
Editorial Writers. Pittman is a member of the
board of directors of Times Publishing Co. and
of Congressional Quarterly, Inc.

VANCE RUCKER, formerly corporate director of
purchasing for Burlington Industries, is
executive in charge of the Textile Machinery
Division of Krupp International, Inc., which
was recently established in Charlotte, N. C.
Krupp, diversified in many manufacturing
areas, became active in the textile machinery
business in 1966. In 1967, ownership of the
Krupp Co., one of the world’s largest industrial
companies, passed to a_ newly created
foundation bearing the family name.

RICHARD B. Taytor, of Las Vegas, Nev., is
manager of Metro Alarm Co., a major
manufacturer of complex alarm  com-
munication systems. Metro Alarm assumed its
name last year after operating as All American
Alarm Co. since 1972. Taylor was previously
associated with Allied Security prior to its
merger with Alarmco.

1952

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. HuGH C. NEwrTon, a
daughter, Kimberly Kelly, on Sept. 11, 1977.
The Newtons have four children. His public
relations firm, Hugh C. Newton and Associates,
has been named public relations counsel for the
Republic of Korea. This year the firm received
the Washington, D. C., Public Relations Society
of America Thoth Award for the outstanding
PR program in the non-profit category in the
Washington area in 1976.

1953
BRANTLEY F. Barr JR. is vice president of Dean
Witter & Co. of New York City. He and his wife,
Cheri, live in Chatham, N. J., with their year-old
son, Benjamin Brantley.

GRAY CASTLE, formerly vice president, general
counsel and secretary for NL Industries, Inc.,

of New York City, has been appointed senior
vice president and general counsel of INA
Corp., with responsibility for managing all
legal activities of the corporation and _ its
subsidiaries. INA Corp. is one of the nation’s
largest diversified financial institutions with
major interests in insurance and insurance-
related services, investment banking, portfolio
management, health care and real estate. Prior
to his association with NL Industries, Inc.,
Castle was with Xerox Corp. as senior counsel
and managing attorney. Castle is a member of
the New York, District of Columbia, Virginia
and Supreme Court Bars. A resident of New
Canaan, Conn., he and his family expect to
move to the Philadelphia area.

WILLIAM HOLLIs JR., professor of English at
Drexell Institute, is the author of a book of
poems entitled Letters and Voices from Steppes,
which is published by Bardic Books of Bryn
Mawr, Pa. Hollis expects to publish three more
volumes within the next two years: Mozart In
Thetford, Obbligato With Cello, and On The Edge Of
Space.

DANIEL E. Popovicu has joined the plastics
department of Exxon Chemical Co. as an
account executive. Located in Atlanta, Ga., he
will supervise marketing of low density
polyethylene in the middle-Atlantic and
Southeastern states. Popovich joined Exxon asa
research engineer in 1959 and was transferred
to Exxon Chemical in 1967 as a geochemist for
industrial specialties. He has served as division
marketer in Houston and in Baltimore.

WEs ABRAMS (See David Lewis 1946.)

1954

WILLIAM H. BRANDON Jr. of Helena, Ark., was
appointed by the governor to a 10-year term on
the Arkansas’ Industrial Development
Commission. Brandon is president and chief
executive officer of the First National Bank of
Phillips County. He is a director of the Helena
Hospital, the National River Academy, and is a
member of the Phillips County Industrial
Development Foundation and the Chamber of
Commerce. Brandon, an active member of the
Arkansas Bankers Association, serves on the
Association’s Federal and State Legislative
Committee. He is also a trustee of the Banking
School of the South at Louisiana State
University.

Dr. HERWIG BRANDSTETTER is head of the
executive and administrative department of the
Chamber of Commerce for the Austrian state
of Styria. He supervised construction of the
recently completed $12 million state commerce
building in the capital, Graz, where he lives with

his family.

JOsEPH L. LANIER JR., president and chief

executive officer of West Point Pepperell in
West Point, Ga., has been elected to the board of
directors of Flowers Industries, Inc., of
Thomasville. Lanier is director of the American
Textile Manufacturers Institute and immediate
past president of the Georgia Textile
Manufacturers Association. He has served on
the board of the Trust Co. of Georgia; the
board of visitors of Berry College; and the
board of trustees of LaGrange College. Flowers
Industries, Inc., is a diversified food company
engaged in the manufacturing and distribution
of baked foods, snack foods. frozen and canned
convenience foods.

1955

ANTHONY H. SARGENT, an 18 yr. veteran of
broadcast news with CBS, has been named a
correspondent for ABC News in Washington.
Before joining CBS in 1963, Sargent was a
writer for the Chicago bureau of United Press
International, a newscaster and announcer for
WTIC radio-TV in -Hartford, Conn., and
WBCR radio in Blacksburg, Va. He served with
the U.S. Navy from 1957-1958.

GRAY CASTLE (See 1953.)

1956

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM B. NORTHROP,
a son, Michael Stewart, on July 28, 1977. The
family lives in Pittsburg, Pa.

LAWRENCE ANTHONY has donated a large
sculpture to Southwestern University at
Memphis, designed as the focal point for a busy
campus crossroad. Anthony, chairman of the
art department at Southwestern, has exhibited
his work throughout the South and has a similar
work on permanent display on the campus of
Vanderbilt University.

JoHn K. Oast has been named chief
administrative officer in charge of coordinating
marketing, personnel operations and
accounting for Farmers and Merchants Bank of
Portsmouth, Va.

GeorcE I. SMITH JR., a physician in Frederick,
Md., is president of the Frederick County
Medical Society.

R. NOEL SPENCE, an attorney in Hagerstown,
Md., is president of the Washington County
Bar Association.

ROBERT STROUD, an attorney in Charlottesville,
Va., was elected moderator of the Synod of
Virginia from Westminster Presbyterian
Church in Charlottesville.

1957

PATRICK J. SIMONELLI is working for HUD in
Reno, Nev., as an attorney advisor.

29

  

P. B. Winfree IIT, ’59

1958

JOHN C. BInrorp has formed a commercial real
estate firm in Albuquerque, N.M.

Lewis JOHN, dean of students at Washington
and Lee, has become a member of the executive
committee and director of the governmental
relations and legislation division of the National
Association of Student Personnel Ad-
ministrators (NASPA). His article “Student-
Consumer Protection in Higher Education” will
appear in a future issue of the NASPA Journal.

A. JACK LESTER III, senior vice president of
Wheat, First Securities and resident manager of
the Martinsville, Va., office, has been elected a
member of the board of directors. Lester
attended the Wharton School of Finance,
University of Pennsylvania, and prior to joining
the Wheat, First Securities office in Martinsville
in 1963 had been a registered representative
with Abbott, Proctor & Paine.

THEODORE G. RICH JR., former merchandising
manager for Gimbels, Inc., of Philadelphia, is
now president of Morville, a multi-branch
mens’ store in Philadelphia.

1959
BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. WILLIAM R.

ACQUAVELLA, a son, Nicholas William, on Aug.
16, 1977. The family resides in New York City.

Dr. Henry H. BOHLMAN is assistant professor
of orthopedic surgery at Case Western Reserve
University in Cleveland. He is also chief of the
spinal cord injury service at the Veterans
Administration hospital. The Bohlman’s have a
four-month-old son, Henry Theodore.

P. B. Winfree III of Lexington received his
Chartered Life Underwriter (CLU) diploma
from the American College of Bryn Mawr, Pa.,
after completion of the curriculum, experience
and ethical requirements for certification. He is
district manager in the Shenandoah Valley for
Equitable Life Assurance Society, with whom
he ranks in the top two percent of all sales
agents throughout the nation.

1960

ROBERT L. ELDER and his wife, Sarah, are the
authors of Crash, a true story of the crash of an
Eastern Airlines’ Lockheed L-1011 on the
evening of Dec. 29, 1972, in the Florida
Everglades. The book is “a serious attempt by
two accomplished investigative reporters to re-
create what they describe as ‘the most fully
documented disaster in the history of civil
aviation’.” The Elders report the whole story
from the initial failure of a light fixture through
the rescue and survival efforts to the litigations
that resulted in $100 million in damages. The
Elders are professional journalists who have

30

     

H.C. Wolf Jr., 60

worked in Miami, Atlanta, and Nashville. They
are currently doing post graduate work at
Stanford University on a National Endowment
for the Humanities Grant.

THomaS W. GILLIAM JR., is senior vice president
for Amvest Leasing Corp., a private company in
the coal and equipment leasing business,
located at the Boar’s Head Place in
Charlottesville, Va. Gilliam was formerly with
the Builders Resources Corp. in Washington,
D.C.

Howarp C. WoLF Jr. a resident of Pittsford,
N. Y., has been appointed to the newly created
position of planning manager for the
sales/marketing department of the commercial
division of the R. T. French Co. The
commercial division, based in Rochester, N. Y.,
manufactures and markets industrial food
ingredients, and packaged goods for the food
service industry. Wolf, a Baltimore native, has
been director of purchasing for Monarch
Institutional Foods of Baltimore and prior to
that time had been employed by McCormick
and Co., of Baltimore. He and his wife have
four children.

1963

E. R. (Dick) ALBERT III has been promoted to
president and chief operating officer of Albert
Equipment Co., Inc. of Tulsa, Okla.

Davip R. GRoGaAN is vice president and general
manager of Rubbermaid Applied Products,
Inc., in Statesville, N.C. He has been with
Rubbermaid Commercial Products in
Winchester, Va., since 1970. Prior to joining the
company he worked for Harris, Inc., in
Cleveland, Ohio, where he was in sales and
marketing. The Grogans have two children.

1964

MARRIAGE: JoHN Harris KIRKLEY to Marie
France Hote on March 21, 1977. The Kirkleys
live in New York where he is a founder of the
The News World, a new daily paper in the city. He
holds an M.A. in philosophy and a law degree
from the University of Texas and is a member
of the State Bar of California.

Davip J. ANDRE, formerly with the law firm of
Kuykendall, Whiting, Costello & Hanes, has
now opened his own office for the general
practice of law in Winchester, Va. In the recent
past, Andre has been doing some legal writing
and lecturing. He is author and lecturer on
“Straight Bankruptcy Liquidation and Wage
Earner Plan” in a handbook and lecture series
presented by the Joint Committee on
Continuing Legal Education of the Virginia
Bar Association and Virginia State Bar. He is
also author of a chapter entitled “Mechanic’s
Liens” in a Handbook on the Enforcement of Liens
and Judgements. Andre is also interested in the

professional road racing series called Trans-
Am. He competed in races at Mosport, Canada,
and Elkhart, Wis. He and his wife have two sons
and the entire family enjoys the racing circuit.

Dr. Bruce R. MacDona_p is the attending
urologist at the Bassett Hospital in
Cooperstown, N.Y. He is also an instructor in
the clinical urology college of physicians and
surgeons. Prior to accepting that position, he
had been a visiting urologist at St. Johns
hospital, MZU, Malawi, Central Africa, and a
resident in urological surgery at the Medical
College of Virginia. He is married to the former
Estelle Goodell, who was a doctoral candidate in
pharmacology at MCV.

Bruce T. HOUGHTON, owner of a sales
representative firm in Seattle, Wash., has been
elected president of the 6100 Building
Association. Houghton lives on Bainbridge
Island, across Puget Sound from Seattle, and
commutes to and from the island daily via the
Washington State Ferry System.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. VicTOoR GALEF, a
daughter, Wendy Gabrielle, on May 31, 1977.
Galef has two other children, a son and a
daughter. He is director of marketing for Wyler
Foods, a division of Borden Foods, Borden,
Inc., with offices in Northbrook, I11.

FRANCIS A. SUTHERLAND JR., has’ been
promoted to associate general counsel for The
Life Insurance Co. of Virginia. He joined the
firm in 1969.

The Rev. WILFRED B. WEBB JR. was chosen one
of two Outstanding Small Church Pastors of the
Year at the Small Church Conference in
Montreat, N.C., in September. He has been
pastor of Faith Presbyterian Church in
Dunedin, Fla., since 1969. He is also vice
president of the Pasco-Pinellas District Mental
Health Board, a member of the board of
Florida Christian Migrant Ministry-National
Farmworker Ministry, an _ organization
development consultant and member of
Creative Interchange Consultants, Florida
Network. Webb is also working towards a
doctor of ministry degree through San
Francisco Theological Seminary.

FRANK H. WILBuR is on the faculty of Oral
Roberts University in Tulsa, Okla., in the
natural science department: He received a
doctorate in biology from the University of
Virginia in 1970 and taught at Mary Baldwin
College until 1974. He and his wife, the former
Wendy Johnson of Cranston, R.I., have a son
and a daughter.

MARRIAGE: Lewis O. FUNKHOUSER JR. and
Anna Johnson on July 30, 1977, in Baltimore.

 

Funkhouser manages the municipal bond
portfolio for U.S. Fidelity and Guaranty Co. His
wife is a broker. They live in Baltimore.

MARRIAGE; JEFFREY N. SHEEHAN and Lana Lee
Strosnider of Reno, Nev. on July 29, 1977. In
attendance were Joseph W. Brown, ’68L, J.
Randy Blood, ’71, and Sam P. Simpson, ’65.
The couple lives in Las Vegas where Sheehan
practices law.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. STARKE SYDNOR, ason,
Carlton Allen, on July 19, 1977. Sydnor is a
practicing attorney in Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. JAMES E. REDENBAUGH is on the neurology
staff of Geisinger Medical Center in Danville,
Penn. Redenbaugh and his wife, Carol, have
one son.

PETER M. DEMANIo has resigned as circuit judge
of Orange and Osceda counties in Florida to
join the firm of Scovill, Pitcher and deManio in
Sarasota. He was appointed to the bench in
1972, replacing Judge Warren H. Edwards, ’39,
as criminal court judge. A constitutional judicial
reform in 1977 elevated deManio to a circuit
judgeship. pal
Dr. PHILLIP D. MOLLERE, a chemist .with the
research and development division of'Freeport
Sulphur Co., has been busily engaged in
renovating a 19th-century residence in old
Algiers Point near New Orleans. He and his
wife have a year-old son, Edgar Alexander.

1967

FRANK L. FAIRCHILD JR. is with the Office of
International Services at the Teachers College,
Columbia University in New York City.

NEIL D. JESPERSEN, former assistant professor
of chemistry at the University of Texas at
Austin, has been appointed associate professor
at St. John’s University in New York. At St.
John’s University Jespersen will continue his
research in thermodynamics and_ thermo-
chemistry of enzyme catalyzed reactions.
During the past several years, Jespersen has
received grants from the Welch Foundation
and the National Institute of Health. He and his
wife, Marilyn, have two daughters.

H. Davis MaAyFIELD has been appointed vice
president of 3D/International in Houston, a
project management, architecture and
engineering firm which he serves as director of
business development. Mayfield is an associate
member of the American Institute of Architects
and a member of the Society for the Marketing
of Professional Services. He _ received his
architecture degree from Texas A&M.

Maj. CHARLES ROADMAN is serving as a
physician at the Air Force Hospital in Torrejon
de Ardoz, Spain. Roadman earned his M.D.
from Emory University in 1973.

SOCCER SOCCER SOCCER
Alumni vs. Varsity Candidates

Y
Cs,

MARRIAGE: STEVEN R. SAUNDERS and
Maureen Ray Collins on May 28, 1977, at the Ft.
Myer Chapel in Arlington, Va. Saunders,
formerly chief legislative assistant and press
secretary for Congressman Norman F. Lent
(R.-N.Y.), is now director of communications
for the National Republican Senatorial
Committee. The couple now lives in Arlington,
Va.

MARRIAGE: BERND ScHuLz and Barbara
Wendt in June, 1977. Schulz is a teacher of
economics and English in Bremen, Germany.
He was formerly a corporate advertising
Strategic planner for two __ international

companies in Germany. The couple live in
Verden.

PARKER DENACO of Augusta, Maine, was chosen
president-elect of the Association of Labor
Mediation Agencies at their 26th annual
conference on July 29 in Hollywood, Fla. He
served previously as first vice president. Denaco
is executive director of the- Maine Labor
Relations Board.

Dr. DONALD J. GODEHN JR. a dermatologist, has
Joined the medical staff of the Margaret R.
Pardee Memorial Hospital in Hendersonville,
N.C. After graduation from Bowman Gray
School of Medicine, Godehn served a year’s
internship and spent another year studying
internal medicine at Vanderbilt University. For
the past three years he has been completing his
residency in dermatology at Baylor College of
Medicine and affiliated hospitals in Houston,
Texas. Godehn is married to the former
Cynthia Croft and the couple have one son.

Hat HIGGINBOTHAM and his wife, Barbara, are
moving to New York where Higginbotham is
the director of financial aid for New York
University.

1969

MARRIAGE: Dr. CHARLES E. STEWART and
Kyle Elizabeth McCue on Sept. 3, 1977, in
Pompano Beach, Fla. Among the groomsmen
were classmates Joe Wich, Clark Carter and
Scott Fechnay, and Randy Brinton, ’68. The
couple will live in Gainsville, Fla. until June,
1978, when Stewart will complete his
orthopedic surgical residency. They expect to
move to Easton, Md., where Stewart will join the
Chesapeake Orthopedic Group.

GarRY BAKER is the medical administration
officer of the Veterans Administration hospital
in Columbia, Mo. Baker, his wife Brenda, and
daughter, Kristin, moved from Chicago where
he earned his master’s degree in hospital
administration.

ROBERT A. HULTEN, a resident of Short Hills,
N.J. is associated with the admiralty and

SUNDAY, MAY 7, 2 P.M.

(This is the day after the W&L Rutgers Lacrosse Game)
All interested alumni should call Coach Rolf Piranian
for information about playing in this game.

aviation law firm of Haight, Gardner, Poor &
Havens of New York City.

Jupson H. Simmons has rejoined the Atlanta
law firm of Kilpatrick, Cody, Rogers,
McClatchey & Regenstein, where he specializes
in the areas of equipment lease financing and
international business transactions. He had
been teaching at Columbia Law School and
pursuing L.L.M. and J.S.D. degrees for the last
two years.

DONALD K. USHER JR. is regional tennis director
for T-Bar-M in San Antonio, Texas. He directs
the T-Bar-M Racquet Club of Northern Hills
and the Thousand Oaks Racquet Club.

1970
MARRIAGE: Dr. HoMEr F. GAMBLE and Sarah
Berry, on Aug. 27, 1977, in Union, S.C. Farris
Hotchkiss, 58, W&L development director, was
a member of the wedding party. The Gambles
live in Kingstree, where Gamble is a physician.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. GERALD W. WEEDON, a
daughter, Lauren Kathryn, on Sept. 8, 1977.
After passing the bar in May, 1977, Weedon is
now associated with the Jacksonville, Fla., law
firm of Marks, Gray, Conroy & Gibbs.

Ray W. DEZERN JR., a practicing attorney in
Norfolk, Va., has been elected president of the
Old Dominion University Alumni Association.
Dezern took his undergraduate degree at ODU
and his law degree at W&L.

Dr. FRANK E. FISHER JR., holds a Diabetes-
Endocrine Fellowship at the University of
Southern California and resides in Downey.

Howarp L. (Skip) HANSBERRY has begun
practicing dentistry in Amherst, Va. He
received his degree from the University of
Kentucky College of Dentistry in May, 1977. He
and his wife, Jane, have two children.

The Rev. JOHN E. MILLER, associate pastor of
River Road Baptist Church in Richmond,
visited the W&L campus in August with a dozen
young people as they returned from a
conference at Craig-Healing Springs, Va.

WILLIAM A. WILSON, after completing a
rotating internship at the Detroit Osteopathic
Hospital, is now working in the emergency
department of Sweetwater County Memorial
Hospital in Rock Springs, Wyo.

1971
MARRIAGE: ARTHUR F. CLEVELAND II and
Polly Ann Maxwell of Inverness, Miss., on July
30, 1977. Washington and Lee men in the
wedding party included classmates Richard
Murray, Clark Faulkner Jr., and Claude
Walker; and Bill Melnyk, 69, Hagood Ellison,

31

   

R. W. Regan, ’71

"72, and Howard Snyder, ’73. The Clevelands
will live in Columbia, where he is completing
work on his M.B.A. at the University of South
Carolina.

MARRIAGE: CHRISTOPHER C. Dove and
Christine McGregor Bowie in Chevy Chase,
Md. Dove is manager of the sales staff of the
Montgomery County Sentinel in Gaithersburg.

MARRIAGE: BaTE CARPENTER Toms III and
Joycelyne de La Chaise on July 23, 1977, in
Beauvais, Oise, France. Toms has completed
work at Magdalene College of Cambridge
University, lInstitut d’Etudes Politiques de
Paris and Yale Law School. The Toms will live
in Alexandria and he will practice law in
Washington.

BIRTH: Mr. AND Mrs. C. MINER HARRELL, a
second son, Daniel Eugene, on Aug. 10, 1977,
in Pensacola, Fla. Miner is an attorney in
Pensacola.

Davip CuHRISTOVICH is head of the theatre arts
department at High Point College in High
Point, N.C. He is a doctoral candidate at the
University of Georgia and has directed
performances of The Time of Your Life and Oh,
Coward.

Epwarbp F. (TED) JUDT is in Richmond, Va., and
has just finished one year of work towards a
master’s degree in anatomy at the Medical
College of Virginia.

SCHUYLER W. LININGER JR. and his wife, the
former Jane Bowman, are both attending
Western States Chiropractic College in
Portland, Ore. Lininger holds a master’s degree
in English from California State University at
Fresno and taught there briefly. He later
managed Better Life Foods, a Fresno firm, for
one year.

RICHARD W. REGAN has been named a
commercial officer by the First National Bank
of Atlanta. Regan earned his M.B.A. in finance
from American University in 1976.

1972

MARRIAGE: Donatp T. McMILLAN and
Jacqulyn Goodwin on May 21, 1977, in
Huntington, N.Y. McMillan is a_ litigation
attorney with the firm of Hart & Hume in New
York City. His wife, a former librarian in the
W&L law school, is now librarian for J. C.
Penney Co. in New York.

BRADLEY G. Boone received his Ph.D. in physics
at the May commencement at the University of
Virginia. He completed his research last
December and then taught in the physics
department during the spring semester.

GEORGE C. CHERRY, who just received his law

32

E. G. Moore, ’72

degree from T. C. Williams law school, is now
staff counsel for Southern States Cooperative,
Inc., of Richmond, Va.

KENNETH Evans completed his M.B.A. at
Southern Methodist University and is working
in the data processing division of IBM in Dallas.

ROBERT L. GOEHRING JR., formerly a carpenter
in Staunton, Va., has joined the pastoral staff of
the Mulberry United Presbyterian Church of
Wilkinsburg in Pittsburgh, Pa. He _ has
responsibilities for youth ministry and
evangelism. Goehring is also enrolled at the
Pittsburgh Theological Seminary in the master
of divinity program.

WILLIAM J. Mopica has completed licensing
requirements for realtor status as a broker
associate. He serves with Progress Realty, Inc.,
in Salem, Va. Modica is also on the board of
directors of the Roanoke Valley chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union.

EDWARD G. (NED) Moore, former information
officer for Mary Washington College in
Fredericksburg, Va., has joned the staff of
Southwestern at Memphis as director of alumni
programs. Moore has been active as a
photographer and a freelance writer. While
serving at Mary Washington College, he also
worked as a contributing editor for Northern
Virginian magazine and a book reviewer for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch.

Rocer A. Ponp, formerly with First Union
National Bank of North Carolina, has been
named vice president and trust officer at First &
Merchants National Bank in Newport News,
Va.

PAUL WEEKS was promoted to captain in March
by the Army and is stationed in Neubruecke,
Germany, for a long tour of duty with an air
defense artillery unit. He just completed
Advanced Officer School in Ft. Bliss, Texas.

1973
MARRIAGE: Mark BraAvDEN and Mckayla
Dockum on Aug. 27, 1977, in Pittsburg.
William Chilton, ’73, and Joseph Finnerty, ’76,
were in the wedding party. Braden is working
as assistant elections counsel for the Secretary
of State of Ohio in Columbus.

MARRIAGE: GrEorGE HaROLpD Harper III and
Barbara Helene Pelley on Sept. 10 in
Alexandria, Va. Harder is associate minority
counsel of the House Interstate and Foreign
Commerce Committee.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FELIx M. DRENNEN III, a
daughter, Elizabeth Patton on July 4, 1977.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JERRY HENDRICK JR., a
son, Alexander Daffron, on Feb. 6, 1977.

Hendrick has opened his own law practice in
Chesterfield Court House, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN (JACK) MASON a
third son, Peter, on Dec. 15, 1976. Mason helda
one year clerkship with Supreme Court
Associate Justice William H. Rehnquist. In
September, 1976, he began as an associate with
the law firm of Williams & Connally in
Washington, D.C.

GATES BRELSFORD, who received an M.B.A.
from Southern Methodist in 1975 and a
master’s degree in international management
from the American Graduate School of
International Management in December, 1976,
is now participating in the officer training
program of the Texas Commerce Bancshares
in Houston, Texas.

WILLIAM R. CHILTON has been appointed to the
Wyoming Seminary faculty as a_ history
professor. The Seminary is.in Kingston, Pa.
Chilton received his M.A. in teaching in 1976
from Duquesne University, where he also
attended the Institute on the American
Economy graduate school.

T. HALLER Jackson III has joined the
Shreveport, La., law firm of Tucker, Martin,
Holder, Jeter & Jackson.

RALPH E. LEHR JR. is working in the commercial
lending division of the Alamo National Bank in
San Antonio, Texas. He received a master’s
degree in finance, accounting and information
systems from Northwestern University’s
graduate school of management in 1975. Heisa
certified public accountant formerly associated
with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell and Co.

Dr. LANNY R. LEVENSON graduated from the
School of Dentistry, Medical College of
Virginia, in May, 1977, and has opened an
office in Richmond, Va., where he will practice
family dentistry.

JAMES S. MAHAN III has been elected assistant
vice president of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.
in Winston-Salem, N.C. Mahan joined the bank
in 1973 as a commercial bank trainee. He was
promoted from _ regional corporate loan
administration officer, a position he entered in

1976.

Gary POLiaAkorF graduated with honors from
law school at the University of South Carolina.
He has published a book, Environmental Law in
South Carolina, under a federal grant and is now
a partner in the firm of Poliakoff, Poliakoff and
Poliakoff in Spartanburg.

JOHN R. (RIDGE) PorTER III of Portsmouth has
been listed in the 1977 edition of Outstanding
Young Man of America. He is a director of Junior
Achievement of Tidewater, the Portsmouth
United Fund and 1s vice president of the Mental
Health Association.

 

   

A. K. Fendrich, ’74 M. P. Daniel, ’74
Dr. J. GRIFFITH STEEL is a captain in the U. S.
Air Force stationed at Lackland AFB, Texas.
He is assigned to Wilford Hall Medical Center
to begin a residency in internal medicine.

BARTOW WILLINGHAM is working as a senior
design engineer with the electronic systems
division of Harris Corp. in Melbourne, Fla.

E. STARKE SYDNOR (See 1966.)

1974

MARRIAGE: Paut CAVALIERE JR. and Nancy Rae
LaFontaine on June 25, 1977, in New Britain,
Conn. Cavaliere is a history teacher in
Middletown and coaches girls varsity volleyball
and freshman basketball. Among the wedding
party were Charles Stein, ’75, and Michael
Burns, °77. Cavaliere has completed his
master’s degree in physical education.

MARRIAGE: KENNETH HurpD and Camille
Collier of Cincinnati, on July 9, 1977, in
Staunton, Va.

MARRIAGE: 'T. Duncan Pace and Anne
Claiborne Brigham on May 28, 1977, in
Birmingham, Ala. Among the groomsmen
were Bruce Green, ’71, James Abele Jr., 72,
Felix Drennen III, ’73, James Drakos, ’72, D.
Zimmery Cauble III, ’74. Also attending were
Mr. and Mrs. Curt Jamison, ’70, Mr. and Mrs.
Charles Gregory, ’72, and Charles Pride, ’72.
The couple will reside in Greenville, S. C. where
Pace is employed by Daniel Construction Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. TimoTHy THOMPSON,
a son, John Timothy Jr., on April 27, 1977.
Formerly with the United Virginia Bank,
Thompson is now an investment executive with
Blyth, Eastman, Dillon & Co., Inc., in
Washington, D. C.

B. Troy FERGUSON has been named editor of
the biweekly Carroll County Times in
Westminister, Md.

Marvin P. DanieL has been appointed
marketing officer for Virginia National
Bank/Richmond. He 1s president-elect of the
3,000 member Richmond chapter of the
American Institute of Banking.

ALAN K. FENDRICH has been appointed sales
manager of WWWY\V, an FM radio station in
Charlottesville, Va.

Bruce N. GorpDIn graduated magna cum laude
from the Cleveland-Marshall College of Law in
June and now resides with his wife, Lee Nichol,
in Pensacola, Fla., where he is associated with a
law firm.

BERNARD J. Lewis, having completed
coursework for a doctorate at the University of
Virginia, is serving a one-year internship in

   

professional psychology with the Devereux
Foundation in Devon, Penn., doing individual
and group therapy with emotionally disturbed
adolescents.

Ray Curtis STEELE JR. has been named
assistant general attorney for the Norfolk and
Western Railway Co. Steele joined N&W three
years ago as an attorney. Prior to his entering
law school at Washington and Lee, he taught
languages in the Roanoke public school system.

1975

MARRIAGE: ELuiis CARLTON COLEMAN and
Ann Beckley Davis on Aug. 13 at the Lexington
Presbyterian Church. Classmates Scott Nelson
and David Slater; and David Denny, ’76, were
members of the wedding party. They will live in
Athens, Ga., where Coleman is doing graduate
work in anthropology at the University of
Georgia.

MARRIAGE: Davip Roby LEE and Elizabeth
Dixon Lackey on October 1, 1977, in Lee
Chapel in Lexington. James G. Overton, ’75,
served as best man. The couple will reside in
Richmond, Va.

‘THOMAS LANCASTER has completed his M.A. in
political science at Miami University in Ohio
and is working on his doctorate at Washington
University in St. Louis.

DONALD T. MCMILLAN (See 1972.)

1976

MARRIAGE: Curis J. DEMPSHER and Graciela
Ruano of Rosemont, Penna., on Aug. 20, 1977,
in Bryn Mawr, Penna. Classmates David
Minton, Richard Bieser and Craig Strachan
were members of the wedding. Dempsher is in
his second year at the Medical College of
Pennsylvania. The couple resides in Wayne.

MARRIAGE: Mirton B. ELuis and Phyllis
Amonette on Aug. 6, 1977, in Lee Chapel.
Groomsmen included Gregg Amonette, °75,
and Peter Adler, ’76. Dr. Louis W. Hodges
officiated. The couple live in Augusta where
Ellis is in his second year at the Medical College
of Georgia.

MARRIAGE: Joun L. Gray JR. and Emily
Dannals on June 11, 1977, in Atlanta. Gray
teaches English at Woodward Academy. His
wife attends Emory Medical School where she is
studying speech pathology.

MARRIAGE: KENNETH O. McCREEDY and
LeAnn Atkins of San Diego on July 30, 1977.
Members of the wedding party were classmates
Bill Shelton, Fred Silbernagel, and Bill Wallace.
The McCreedys will live 'in Albany while he
attends graduate school at the University of
California at Berkeley.

ROBERT H. ANDERSON III is the assistant
attorney general in the criminal division of the
office of the attorney general for the
Commonwealth of Virginia.

Davip R. BRAUN is a marketing associate with
Travelers Insurance Co. of Hartford, Conn., in
the financial services division at their
Milwaukee office.

Mark R. CHAMBERS, after completing a
bachelor’s degree in forestry at the University
of Georgia’s School of Forest Resources, is now
employed as woods supervisor with the James
M. Vardaman & Co., forest management
specialists, in Macon, Ga.

JOHN HENZEL JR. is at St. Bonaventure
University in the MBA program. He also holds
a grant for a graduate assistantship while
continuing his studies.

TERESA A. JOHNSON is the legal aid staff
attorney for Wythe and Bland Counties in
Virginia.

STEVEN K. ROBERTS resides in Lexington where
he works closely with Dr. Ju, professor of art at
W&L. He had a one-man show September 18-
October 2 of woodcarvings done in Taiwan and
posters done in Paris.

THOMAS L. SANSONETTI has formed a
partnership for the general practice of law in
Gillette, Wyo., under the firm name of Lubnaw,
Sheehan, Stevens & Sansonetti.

JONATHAN L. Spear has completed his clerkship
for Judge R. P. Melvin of the Maryland Court of
Special Appeals and is associated with a law firm
in Washington.

MARK BRADEN (See 1973.)

1977

MARRIAGE: RANDOLPH J. KRAMER and Sally Jo
Buchanan of Cincinnati, on Aug. 13, 1977.
David Addison, ’78, served as best man. John
Jackley, ’77, and John McGovern, ’78, were
ushers. Also attending the wedding were
classmates Penn Plummer, Rick Lovegrove,
Ray Smith, Doug Dewing, A. R. Emmert and
Woodruff (Barney) Johnson. Also representing
W&L were Chris Reid, Spencer Jackson, Tim
Heldman and Scott Winzler from the class of
78, and Peter Engel, ’79.

MARRIAGE: Joun Danie Scott III and
Pamela Gaillard Wise on Aug. 20, 1977, in
Lexington. Scott is night manager of the W&L
Cockpit.

RICHARD J. BaGsy is working in Martinsville,
Va., for the First National Bank of Danville.

BRADLEY S. ELLIOTT is a reporter for the
Morning News in Florence, S.C.

33

CLASS NOTES

JAMES N. FALK has entered the University of
Virginia for graduate study in_ politics,
primarily in the field of Mid-Eastern relations.
This summer he held an internship with the
Mid East Institute in Washington, D.C.

JOHN L. JACKLEy is the coordinator of the work
group on Panama for the Council of the
Americas in Washington, D.C.

WALTER D. KELLEY JR. is press secretary for

Congressman James M. Collins (R.-Texas) in
Washington, D.C.

IN MEMORIAM

 

 

1906

WILLIAM Lacy HOGE 8r., former president of
Mengel Co. and president of William L. Hoge
Co., cabinet makers, died Sept. 27, 1977, at the
Methodist Evangelical Hospital in Louisville,
Ky. Hoge headed the Mengel Co. until 1939
and formed his own company in 1943. He
retired in 1954. He was active in several
community and church organizations including
the Christian’s Businessman’s Committee,
Campus Crusade for Christ and the old
Louisville Board of Trade. He had been a
treasurer for the Good News Club, a president
of the Louisville Safety Council, and was an
elder for more than 40 years at the Second
Presbyterian Church.

1909

S. FLoyD LANDRETH, attorney, banker, former
state senator, and onetime candidate for
governor, died Oct. 2, 1977, in Galax, Va.
Landreth was elected to the state senate in 1944
and the following year agreed to be the GOP
candidate for governor. He was defeated by
William M. Tuck. Landreth was state GOP
chairman in 1952 when Eisenhower was elected
president. He retired from the senate in 1965.
Landreth is the last of the lawyers involved in
the celebrated Allen gang trial of 1912 to die.
During the trial the judge, _ sheriff,
commonwealth’s attorney, a jurorand a witness
in Hillsville, Va., were killed.

191]

FRANK G. BEDINGER died Aug. 2, 1977, in
Boydton, Va. Bedinger had __ been
Commonwealth’s Attorney for Mechlenburg
County from 1932 to 1948. He was chairman of
the board of the Bank of Virginia in Boydon.
Bedinger, who was in the general practice of
law for many years, had formed a partnership
with his son, Frank C. Bedinger, ’41.

1916

HENRY JEFFERSON KISER, founder of the law
firm of Kiser & Kiser, died Sept. 8, 1977. Kiser

34

was a former mayor of Wise, Va., a former
director of the Wise County National Bank, a
member of both the Virginia and Wise County
Bar Associations and a charter member of the
Wise Kiwanis Club.

1919

W. F. Barron Sr., an executive of the Coca-
Cola Bottling Co. and a civic leader, died Oct. 5,
1977. Barron was a pioneer in the soft drink
bottling industry, joining the Rome, Ga.,
bottling company in 1920. During his career he
was affiliated with Coca-Cola bottling
companies in Cedartown, Carrollton,
Cartersville, Dalton, Fort Valley, and Valdosta.
Barron was chairman of the board of the Rome
bottling company, a past president and life-time
member of the board of directors of the Coca-
Cola Bottlers Association and past president of

 

MRS. WILLIAM H. MORELAND
Mrs. William Haywood Moreland, wife of the
late dean of the Washington and Lee School
of Law, died on Nov. 6 in Jacksonville, Fla.,
at the age of 91. Moreland was dean of the
School of Law from 1922 to 1944. The
present Alumni House is the former
residence of the Moreland family. Mrs.
Moreland is survived by a son, William
Haywood Moreland Jr.,’34, and a daughter,
Mrs. John W. (Margaret Ann) Ball. Burial
was in the family plot in Norfolk.

 

 

 

the Georgia Bottlers Association. An editorial in
the Rome News-Tribune commented “His
lifetime of service to the community spanned
more than half a century. During that time
there have been few, if any, enterprises
dedicated to the betterment of his community
in which Mr. Barron did not have an active
part.” Barron was a trustee of Shorter College
and a member of the Rome Board of Education
for 31 years. He also served on the boards of the
Georgia Chamber of Commerce, the National
City Bank in Rome and he chaired the building
fund that raised money to build the Barron
Stadium in Rome. The Rome newspaper also
said “We could not chronicle here the times he
has extended a helping hand to others,
provided sage counsel or tendered leadership
to faltering causes. He was astute in business, a
devoted family head, a warm friend and a
gentleman in the finest sense of the word.”

 

John Franklin Hendon, a member of
Washington and Lee’s Board of Trustees
from 1959 until 1972, died Aug. 22 in
Birmingham, Ala. He was 76.

Mr. Hendon, a 1924 Washington and Lee
graduate, was president of Hendon & Co. of
Birmingham. He was a former president of
the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association and was Birmingham area
chairman for the University’s 1958-60
development campaign.

Mr. Hendon was a pioneer in the
commercial parking industry in
Birmingham and eventually became a
recognized leader in the industry in the
South. He was owner and _ majority
stockholder in more than 25 corporations
and partnerships operating parking and
real estate businesses in 12 cities in five
Southern states—the second largest parking
enterprise in the South.

He was a member of the board of the
Birmingham Trust National Bank, a past
president of the National Parking
Association, a member of the Newcomen
Society of North America, president and
board member of the Jefferson County
Tuberculosis Sanitorium Society, vice
president and a member of the executive
committee of Associated Industries of
Alabama, a member of the Alabama
Chamber of Commerce and the United
States Chamber of Commerce.

He served as a naval officer during World
War II and was discharged with the rank of
lieutenant commander. He was listed in

 

JOHN FRANKLIN HENDON, 1901-1977

 

Who’s Who in Commerce and Industry and was a
frequent contributor to national professional
journals.

At the conclusion of his 13 years on the
W&L board, his fellow trustees adopted a
formal resolution remarking that Hendon’s
extensive business experience had been an
important influence in the University’s own
business affairs. The resolution also
declared that his “special qualities of grace
and charm .. . epitomize the Washington
and Lee gentleman.”

 

 

 

1922

Dr. BENNETT F. ROBERTS, an eye, ear, nose and
throat specialist in Albuquerque, N.M., for
more than 40 years, died Aug. 7, 1977. Roberts
retired from practice in 1975. During his
career, he served as president of the staff of
Presbyterian Hospital and was an active staff
member of St. Joseph Hospital, both in
Albuquerque. He was a consultant for the Santa
Fe Railway, a past president of the Albuquerque-
Bernalillo County Medical Society and a fellow
of the American College of Surgeons. During
World War II Roberts served as a commander
in the Navy Medical Corps.

WALTER KEEBLE SMITH JR. died in Ormond
Beach, Fla., on May 2, 1977. Before moving to
Florida in 1948, Smith was a registered
architect practicing in Lynchburg, Va. Smith
served with the U. S. Army Air Force during
World War II in India and China where he
designed airstrips. He headed his own
architectural firm in Ormond Beach and
practiced there until 1976. Shortly before his
death Smith received the coveted American
Institute of Architects Emeritus Award.

1926 ae

EDWIN C. LaIRD JR., a former executive with
American Telephone and Telegraph Co., died
July 21, 1977. Laird joined AT&T in 1924 and
retired in 1971. During his career, he was
instrumental in the development of long-
distance service both in the U.S. and around the
world. He played a key role in pioneering the
development of submarine cable system and
communication satellites during his 47 years of
service. Upon retirement, he was executive
assistant to the vice president, Long Line
Department/AT&T and was responsible for all
negotiation of all commercial arrangements
with foreign countries for telephone service.

1929

WILLIS VAN GILBERT, an attorney in Athens,
Ala., and board chairman of First Alabama
Bank of Athens, died Aug. 14, 1977, ina fire at
his home. Gilbert was a director of First
Alabama Bancshares, Inc., and the Vulcan Life
Insurance Co. He was also president of Julyn,
Inc., a real estate company. A former member
of the Alabama Board of Education, Gilbert
also served as a trustee for two universities:
Athens State College and the University of
Montevallo. From 1950-1959, he was chairman
of the Athens Planning Commission and was
former chairman of the board of trustees of the
Wheeler Basin Regional Library.

1930

LucIENn C. Gwin, an attorney in Natchez, Miss.,
died March 13, 1977.

1932

WILLIAM CLYDE CAPEL, a retired associate

professor of sociology at Clemson Univeristy,
died Sept. 5, 1977. He was a member of Sigma
Delta Chi, the national journalism fraternity;
and a longtime member of the American Civil
Liberties Union and the American Association
of University Professors. He was_ twice
president of the North Carolina Peach Council
and was one of the founders of the National
Peach Growers Association.

ALFRED PRESTON SALE JR., a retired director of
Southern States Cooperative, Inc., fertilizer
division, died Aug. 28, 1977. He retired in 1974
after 37 years of service with the company.
Prior to his association with Southern States he
had been auditor for the State of Virginia from
1934 to 1937. Sale was a past president of the
Farmer Chemical Association and _ vice
chairman of the board of C. F. Industries, a
Chicago based manufacturer of chemical
agricultural fertilizers.

1934

HARRISON MERRILL WALTERS JR., who owned
an insurance agency in Pocomoke City, Md.,
died July 28, 1977. He had lived in Pocomoke
City all his life and was owner of the H. Merrill
Walters Insurance Agency. Walters was on the
advisory board of the Maryland National Bank.
He was also a past president of the Pocomoke
City Rotary Club as well as a member of a
number of Masonic organizations.

1935

JOHN BAKER AUSTIN, who retired from Pathe
Film Laboratories in New York City in 1967,
died July 4, 1977. He was a member of St. Paul’s
Episcopal Church, Bound Brook, N.J., and was
active in church and community affairs. A
veteran of World War II, he served in the
European theater and was awarded the Purple
Heart. Upon retirement from military service,
he had attained the rank of major.

CHARLES CORNELIUS SMITH, former president
and chairman of the board of Buckman, Ulmer
& Mitchell Inc., realtors in Jacksonville, Fla.,
died Aug. 30, 1977, in Venice, Fla. He was past
president of the Rotary Club of Jacksonville,
the Timuquana Country Club, the Jacksonville
Children’s Museum and the Jacksonville
chapter of the Institute of Real Estate
Management. An All-American high school
basketball player, Smith earned an honorable
mention on W&L’s All-American football team
and was named to the All-Southern basketball
team. During World War II, he served with the
U.S. Navy aboard the aircraft carrier U.S.S.
Monterey and with both the Third and Fifth
Fleets.

1937

WILLIAM PAuL Morrison, a former operating
and maintenance manager for Sperry Rail

 

MRS. WILLIAM M. HINTON
Mrs. Mary Moore Harper Hinton, wife of
Dr. William M. Hinton, retired professor of
psychology, died at her home in Lexington
on Nov. 13 at the age of 69. Dr. Hinton, a’29
graduate of W&L, taught at the University
from 1930 until he retired last year and
headed the psychology department from
1959 to 1972. Mrs. Hinton was a native of
Rockbridge County and a graduate of
Hollins College. Besides her husband, she is

 

 

survived by a son, William M. Hinton Jr.

 

Service, died Jan. 11, 1977, in Louisville, Ky.
Sperry Rail Service was a firm engaged in
locating flaws and defects in railroad tracks.

1942
RICHARD BERTRAM ANDERSON of Scarsdale,
N.Y., died June 25, 1977, after a brief illness.
He was a manufacturer’s representative in the
cosmetics industry for 25 years. Anderson was a
former president of the Wilmot Manor Civic
Association.

JACKSON MONTGOMERY ANDREWS III, who
practiced law in Louisville, Ky., died Aug. 10,
1977. Andrews had worked in Louisville for
several years as an industrial engineer before
beginning his law practice in 1948. He was a
member of both the Kentucky and Virginia
State Bar Associations.

1949

VIRGIL SAMPSON GorE JR. and his wife died ina
July 19, 1977, private airplane accident in the
Bay of Fundy in Canada. They were on
vacation. Gore recently worked closely with
administrators at the Lewis Law Center at
Washington and Lee to begin an independent
research project covering aviation law. He was a
partner in the Norfolk law firm of Seawell,
McCoy, Dalton, Hughes, Gore & Timms. A
former assistant city attorney, he was active in
the First Presbyterian Church and was a former
president of the Norfolk YMCA.

1950

RICHARD HARRISON BocGcs whose _ business
career included executive positions with
Teneco Chemicals Inc., ITT Corp., Allied
Chemical Corp., Wilson Carbon Corp., and
who served as an international management
consultant, died May 30, 1977, in Brooklyn,
N.Y. After two years service in the Army, Boggs
undertook graduate work at the International
Institute of the University of Geneva in
Switzerland. On his return to the United States
he entered international business. He was a
member of the Chemists’ Club of New York, the
International Executives Association, and a
trustee of the Brooklyn Psychiatric Centers,
Inc.

1963

O. DALTon BauGess, who practiced law in
Salem, Va. from 1963 to 1977, died March 27,
1977. Baugess, who did his undergraduate
work at VPI, served as a substitute judge for the
General District Court of Salem and Roanoke
County. He was an active member of the Salem
Lions Club.

1968

LANCE ELLIOTT, a resident of Oxford, Md., died
Dec. 6, 1976, in the Eastern Shore Hospital
Center.

35

 

 

Harry Killinger (Cy) Young, one of
Washington and Lee’s most successful
athletes and coaches and for many years the
University’s alumni secretary, died in
Richmond Sept. 24 at the age of 84.

Mr. Young was widely regarded as
W&L’s greatest athlete. A member of the
class of 1917, he won 16 letters—four each
in football, basketball, track and baseball
and was a team captain in each sport. He was
the school’s head basketball coach from
1933 to 1939, during which time his teams
won the Southern Conference
championship in 1934 and 1937 and were
runners-up in 1935 and 1936.

Born in Charleston, W.Va., March 8,
1893, the son of Mr. and Mrs. J.M. Young,
he arrived at W&L in 1913 and plunged into
the athletic scene. For a number of years his
mother and his sister, Miss Eutha Young,
lived in Lexington.

As was the case with all athletes named
Young back then, he acquired the nickname
“Cy.” Denton “Cy” (for Cyclone) Young,
baseball’s greatest pitcher up to that time,
had retired in 1912 after 22 years of major-
league pitching and 511 wins.

In Young’s freshman year here, the
W&L football team won eight and lost one.
W&cL outscored its opponents 200 to 7, and
Young accounted for 54 of the 200 points.

In 1914 the Generals won nine and lost
none, taking the South Atlantic Division
championship and outscoring opponents
333 to 12. Young had 67 points. As
quarterback of the 1915 team, which won
seven, lost one and tied one, Young was
injured at midseason. But the next year,
when the Generals won five, lost two and
tied two, he was again W&L’s leading scorer.
He was an All-Southern Conference
selection every year except the season he was
injured.

Recalling Young’s exploits years later,
Richmond columnist Chauncey Durden
pointed out that W&L was a feared national

Outstanding athlete

CY YOUNG
1893-1977

football power. Under Coach Walter Elcock,
the 1914 team was one of five unbeaten and
untied major teams in the nation. In 1915
the lone W&L loss was a close one to
Cornell’s unbeaten national champions.

In basketball, Young was twice All-
Southern, led the W&L team in scoring, and
was named to the Helms Athletic
Foundation All-American team for 1917,
when W&L was undefeated in 13 games.

In baseball he was the team’s leading
hitter, scorer and base-stealer for three
years. And in track he set the school record
of 9.8 in the 100-yard dash, which stood for
a number of years.

Also a leader in campus life, he was a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa and
Alpha Tau Omega and was president of
Finals.

After military service, Mr. Young was
engaged in the lumber business in Helena,
Ark., from 1919 to 1927. He married the
former Miss Ruth Neely of Helena in
Lexington April 27, 1918.

He coached at William & Mary in 1928-
1929 and returned to W&L as coach and
part-time alumni secretary in 1929.

His basketball teams posted such records
as 10-6, 17-4 and 19-2 in an era that brought
to W&L such stalwarts as Bob Spessard (’39)
and Norm Iler (37).

After he became full-time alumni
secretary in 1939 he continued his keen
interest in athletics and his talks at pep
rallies before the University of Virginia
games became legendary. He retired as
alumni secretary in 1958. That same year he
was chosen to the National Football Hall of
Fame, and he regularly attended its black-tie

Winning coach

dinners at the Waldorf-Astoria, famed as
nostalgic events at which the great moments
of football are relived. He was named to the
West Virginia Sports Hall of Fame in 1964
and in 1972 became only the third person
chosen to the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame.

In recent years, he and Mrs. Young had
lived in Kilmarnock, Va. In addition to his
wife, he is survived by a son, M. Neely
Young of Richmond, a member of the class
of 1943 at W&L. A memorial service took
place in Weems, Va. The family suggested
that in lieu of flowers gifts should be made
to the Cy Young Memorial Scholarship
Fund at W&L.

“His competitive record and
achievements are well documented,” said a
friend of Cy Young’s, Charles E. Bond, ina
eulogy at the memorial _ service.
“Fundamental to his competitive spirit was a
strong sense of fair play and a high standard
of sportsmanship.”

“But records and documentation are
seldom provided for matters such as
compassion, love of others both great and
small, and service with no thought of
personal gain in material or in prestige.

“In Cy’s case, these are matters recorded
and locked away in the minds and hearts of
those who knew him well. You can hear
them speak of his intense interest and
continuing efforts in behalf of young
people; of his strong feelings with respect to
a good Honor System; of his emphasis on
character-building and growth.

“They speak of his love for people
whatever their place in life. Cy in some great
or some lesser way has touched us all. The
number of those who have had their
outlooks or their lives molded for the better
by his influence is surely legion.”

This obituary and appreciation of Cy Young
was written by M.W. Paxton Jr., ’49, editor
of the Lexington News-Gazette, from which it
is reprinted with permission.

 

Admired alumni secretary

 

36

 

 

 

 

STATEMENT OF REVENUES AND EXPENDITURES
» ~ WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

Year ended June 30, 1977

REVENUES:
Cash and market value of stock collected
on pledges and matching gifts .............eeeeeeeeeeeeees $590,576
Pledges fulfilled by transfers from other
Wiel, Hinds ber GONCr TEQUESE 2... eee e seen 18,340
novos cus co cciccseccesceevseecaccostene $608,916
EXPENDITURES:
ii ite seins 64,162
FREE RCS teense sue ee epee 29,580
Alarpeat Plea a is ees 1,461
Payroll takes atid WISUPRCE oe. k rs cies cis scasss cg es esses ees ceees 9,141
Entertain nt nos a 5,917
FHOPRECOTED ooo ig aero sn L322
ARMM Magazine —.i a s.... 21,025
DAVCCLOTY ooo. Se cee 6,928
OOETICE SUPDITES ooo ic secre is soar sece nee 4,324
BOA og oes san ciswe nde cngssnecs: Saul pap OU eden se capee 6,855
eee i i ie 5,820
Pelepeone and telegraph. ssc 1,772
DV ec og on cg ws oe ones te dee es scl 12,197
Miscellaneous .............. cee cececescececcscecsccscsccscscecescecescesescuss 10,003
TOTAL EXPENDITURES .......ccccccceccsccecceeccuccseceeceeceeceeecs 181,007
Excess of revenues over expenditures ................ $427,909

Note: The revenues and expenditures reported in this statement are included in
the financial statements of Washington and Lee University.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

CL,

 

 

 

BASKETBALL Jan. 21—Towson State Away
Nov.  25—Clinch Valley HOME Se ee HOME
Nov. 6—York HOME eb. orris Harvey,
Nov SO apica-Sitluey HOME UNC-Wilmington HOME
Dec. 3—Lynchburg } Away Feb. 10—Va. Commonwealth Away
Dec. 7—Univ. of Rochester HOME Feb. 11—Old Dominion Away
Dec. 21—Eastern Connecticut State Away Feb. | 25-25---State Championships
Dec. 22—Staten Island Away M 11-18-__NCAA Dj Harrisonburg, Va.
ae ar. 11-18— v.
Jan. 6-7—WeeL eovitanionat mee III Nationals Grinnell, low
Case-Western, Salisbury State, ’ 4
Swarthmore
Jan. 9—Ashland HOME
Jan. 1 1—Castleton State HOME
Jan. 13—Eastern Mennonite Away WRESTLING
Jan. I7--Shenandoah pei Nov. 11-12—O.D.U. Monarch Open Away
Jan. 19—Lynchburg HOME Nov. 30—Lynchburg Away
Jan. al. Emory & renry Hay Dec. 3—W&cL Invitational HOME
Jan. 24—Hampden-Sydney ov) Clemson, Liberty Baptist
Jan. 26—Bluefield HOME George Mason. VMI.
Jan. 28—Bridgewater HOME faines Madison York.
Feb. 2—FEastern Mennonite HOME Maryville W&L
Reps  4—Maryuille ete Dec. | 6—James Madison HOME
Feb. 8—Emory & Henry HOME Jan. 13—Campbell Away
Feb. 1 1—Randolph-Macon Away Jan 14—_Duke Away
i cae. € Roch ee Jan. 18—Eastern Mennonite Away
a BAY OE > Oeme ster way Jan. 21—Citadel Invitational Away
Feb. 18—Bridgewater Away Jan o5—V MI HOME
Feb. 24-25—ODAC Tournament Away Jan. 28—Va. State Meet (O.D.U.) | Away
| Jan. 31—Liberty Baptist Awa
P y
Feb. 4—-Pembroke State
Invitational Away
SWIMMING Feb. 7—Hampden-Sydney HOME
Nov. 18—James Madison Away Feb. 10—Davidson HOME
Dec. 3—Univ. of Richmond Away Feb. 11—V.C.U. & Pittsburgh Away
Dec. 6—V.M.I. HOME Feb. 14—M.1.T. Away
Dec. 16-24—Swimming Hall Feb. 15—Harvard & Lowell Away
of Fame Ft. Lauderdale, Fla. Feb. 22—ODAC Championships Away
Jan. 7—Va. Tech Away Feb. 25—James Madison Away

 

Jan. 14—George Washington HOME Mar. 2-3-4—NCAA III Championships Away

 

 

 

