_.
as

Be
Tig
as

Bee

ey ee

RP,
oe es
a

ae

is
ges

|
|
]
|
]

  

tg ae gS

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 52, Number 5, July 1977

William C. Washburn, ’40 ..................... Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ................... Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing, 77 °.............. Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ............0...000005. Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ............ 0.0... eee ee eee. Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Bonds That Last ............... 00. e ee eee eee l
Commencement 1977 ..............00000 00s 2
Of “Self? and Dignity ...................... 6
Three Professors Retire ................0005 10
Professional Ethics .................00000005 ll
Award-Winning Pictures’ ................4.. 12
Good Year in Sports” ................00 00005 14
WS&L Gazette ...... 0. ce eee 16
Chapter News ............ 0.00. c ee eee eee 19
Class Notes ......... ccc eee eee 20
In Memoriam ..............00 cece cece eeeee 27

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpwIn J. Foitz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

ROBERT M. White II, 38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President

JERRY G. Soutu,’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

FRED FOx BENTON Jr., 60, Houston, Tex.
WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DENNY, 752, Atlanta, Ga.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HOLLIS, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.

ON THE COVER: Commencement at Washington
and Lee is the most photographed event of the year.
Everybody seems to have a camera, and everybody
is accommodating as everybody scurries around to
find the best picture-taking position. But for this
picture, photographer Sally Mann moved out of the
crowd and into the quiet of Lee Chapel. A window
provided an excellent view of the procession. Click.
How nice!

 

 

 
  

Reprinted with-permission from the May 12,
1977 issue of the Norfolk Ledger-Star. The
author is associate editor of the newspaper.

On a warm, sunny September day in
1948, a young man—no, a boy just
turned 17—walked alone up the tree-
shaded hill from the entrance to Wash-
ington and Lee University.

When he got as far as Lee Chapel he
paused to look up at that splendid
Colonnade—the historic row of five
brick buildings painted red and set off
by huge, three-story columns, gleaming
white in the midday brightness.

To say that this graduate of a very
small parochial school, where he had
been one of eight seniors, was impressed
is to understate the moment. He was
plain scared. This is a small college?

He continued on, up the remainder
of the gentle slope, moving under the
shadow of those tall columns at
Washington Hall and over to Payne next
door and the registrar’s office.

Thus he began a four-year
experience he shared with classmates
from all over the United States, and
from other nations. The physical beauty
of the campus and the surrounding
countryside and the quaint charm of the
town of Lexington itself all contributed
to the atmosphere and the breadth of
the learning.

He studied English and history and
science and language and a host of other
subjects, but he learned other things,
too. The intimacy of a small, friendly
campus (as colleges go, W&L is small) . . .
the introduction to the Honor System,
the speaking tradition and a host of
other things about a school he had just
entered, but which would be celebrating
its Bicentennial the following spring.

He learned a lot about what he could
expect of W&L and what W&L expected

.of him. For many of the introductory
sessions, he sat in Lee Chapel where
Robert E. Lee had worshiped and now
was buried, but the benches were so

hard he didn’t appreciate the history.

It is easy to see, then, why this is a
place you love to come back to.
Especially in the fall when the leaves are
turning. Especially in the spring when
the greenery renews itself. Especially,
for that matter, in the summer when the
campus provides some shaded cool on
even the hottest days. Especially in the
winter when the blanket of snow gives
that magnificent front campus a whole
new dimension of beauty.

And, finally, especially when it is the
25th reunion of your class, as it was for
me last weekend. “Our college
friendships soon must sever . . .” begins
the Alma Mater. But you find, perhaps
as much to your surprise as to your de-
light, that they didn’t. The bond is still
there. The talk is good and easy among
men who haven’t seen each other—or, in
many cases, even corresponded—for a
quarter of a century. The old times are
remembered with poignancy and
laughter. The present is discussed. The
future is speculated on—optimistically, it
always seems, during this revitalizing
weekend.

The kidding returns quickly and
focuses, as you might guess, on growing
old: who has aged and who hasn’t. I had
come back after a few years and
thought, “My, the students look young.” I
came back a few years later for a Home-
coming weekend and thought, “My, the
alumni look young.” I came back this
time and thought, “My, those professors
I thought were old when they taught me
look young.”

The 25th is traditionally a class’s
major reunion, and ours had by far its
best turnout of the four so far. The
weekend included an added feature:
the dedication of the new law school,
Lewis Hall.

It is a breath-taking building far back
from the Front Campus and across
what, for some reason, we used to call
the longest non-suspension, concrete
footbridge in the world. Lewis Hall

Frank Callaham

forges bonds
that endure
the years

 

reflects the growth of W&L and is the
grandest example of the extensive
construction that has gone on since the
earlier time when all the academic
buildings were close to the Colonnade.
But the panorama provided by the
Colonnade is unchanged. The
expansion has been to the rear.

The new law school was made
possible by a gift of $9 million from
alumnus Sydney Lewis, the Best
Products man, and his wife, Frances.
After Supreme Court Justice Lewis
Powell, himself an alumnus, had spoken
at the dedication and the Lewises had
taken more bows than the cast of My
Fair Lady, Mr. Lewis was explaining why
they had decided to give Washington
and Lee a new law school.

“You can’t fully understand what
Washington and Lee means,” he said,
“unless you have gone there.”

A lot of middle-aged men who
walked that campus last weekend had
that understanding rekindled. And at
one point, as we walked past Lee
Chapel, I glanced up toward the white-
columned row of red buildings and
thought about that September day in
1948. The Colonnade seemed even
more beautiful. And every bit as
awesome to a father who would like to
see his boys become W&L men.

I

degrees
dener honored

%
2?
SX
a
Ss
© 8
s A
3 §
S
s §
= s
%
NS
m ©

 

 

Washington and Lee conferred undergraduate and
law degrees on 372 men and women in commencement
exercises this spring—and honorary doctorates on
three men with strong ties to both the Univeristy and
Lexington.

Honorary Doctor of Laws degrees were awarded tc
Almand R. Coleman, assistant to University Treasurer
Paul MCN. Penick from 1926 to 1928 and professor of
accounting from 1939 to 1954; Marvin B. Perry Jr.,
professor of English from 1951 to 1960 and head of
the department for the last four of those years; and H.
Emory Widener Jr., a 1953 law graduate who is now a
judge of the Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

After leaving the W&L faculty 22 years ago,
Coleman, a 1926 graduate of the University, taught for
a year at Harvard and then joined the faculty of the
Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business
Administration at the University of Virginia, where he
taught until last year. For the past year he has been
visiting professor at Tennessee Technological Institute,
with duties in developing that school’s new MBA
program.

Perry became admissions director and professor of
English at the University of Virginia in 1960. In 1967
he became president of Goucher College, and since
1973 he has been president of Agnes Scott College.

Widener practiced law tn Bristol until he was

 

Almand R. Coleman

 

H. Emory Widener Jr.

appointed to the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Virginia in 1969. Two years later he was
named Chief Judge of that court, and in 1972 he was
elevated to the Fourth Circuit.

Coleman is married to the former Louise Hudson
Foster of Lexington. Perry’s wife is the former Ellen
Coalter Gilliam, niece of the late Dean Frank J. Gilliam.

Widener is a descendant of Benjamin Borden,
recipient in 1730 of a grant of property from King
George I which included the land on which Lexington
is now located.

Commencement-week activities formally began with
the traditional baccalaureate address, delivered this
year by David Worth Sprunt, University chaplain and
professor of religion, whose topic was the
extraordinary “creativity of spirit” Robert E. Lee
exercised during his five years as president of Wash-
ington College.

Lee’s reputation as an academic administrator
before the Civil War—he had been superintendent of
West Point from 1852 to 1855—was not especially
distinguished, Dean Sprunt noted. But at Washington
College, Lee was associated with “a fascinating array of
programs striking in both their imaginative freshness
and educational integrity.”

The “creative Lee” may have surfaced precisely as a
result of, not despite, the pain and anguish “inflicted

 

Commencement ’77

by outward circumstance and the inner pain of self-de-
precation,” Sprunt said. Much the same
phenomenon—that an unwelcome fate may become
“the ground of future creativity” through the increased
faith in Providence it inspires—had been observed
among prisoners of the Japanese in China during
World War II by Langdon Gilkey, author of Shantung
Compound, who, Sprunt said, stimulated the insight this
spring during a visit to W&L.

In Reserve Officer Training Corps exercises in Lee
Chapel on graduation morning, 14 men were
commissioned second lieutenants in the Army Reserve
and two were commissioned to active duty.

_ The speaker on that occasion, retired Army
General Bruce C. Clarke, told the graduating ROTC
students and their families that the effectiveness of
America’s armed forces depends on three qualities:
their material strength in terms of arms; qualities of
morale, training, leadership, confidence, and support
“back home”; and wise and effective use of arms and
men.

“The second and third factors”—the people who
serve and the wisdom of government—“are far more
important” than weapons and supplies, Clarke
declared.

(By tradition, President Huntley made the principal
remarks at commencement. His remarks are printed in
full elsewhere in this magazine.)

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan prize, the highest

Earl W. (Sandy) Stradtman Jr., winner of the Frank J. Gilliam Award, an
honor conferred upon him by his fellow students, with his mother,
Mrs. Earl W. Stradtman.

4

 

award the W&L faculty confers on a graduating
student, was presented to Edward Terrell Atwood III
of Lexington, son of Dean Edward C. Atwood of
W&L’s School of Commerce, Economics and Politics.
He was co-chairman of the Student Activities Board in
his junior year, with major responsibility for “A Salute
To Hollywood,” the gala Fancy Dress Ball, and in the
past year mastered the intricacies of W&L’s new
computerized telephone system, teaching faculty and
staff how to use it and acting as troubleshooter on a
volunteer basis. The Sullivan award, given annually by
‘The Southern Society of New York, recognizes the
graduating student “who excels in high ideals of living,
in spiritual qualities, and in generous and disinterested
service to others.”

The Frank J. Gilliam Award, the major honor
conferred on a student by other students, was
presented to Earl W. (Sandy) Stradtman of Columbia,
S.C. Stradtman, who was graduated summa cum laude,
ranking fourth in his class, was vice president of the
student body and president of Omicron Delta Kappa in
his senior year. He will attend Harvard Medical School
in the fall.

The class valedictorian was another pre-medical
student, Richard Owen Bolden Jr. of Cumberland,
Md., who earned a near-perfect 3.947 grade-point on
W&L’s 4.0 scale. A Phi Beta Kappa chemistry major,
Bolden will attend the University of Maryland Medical
School in the fall.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Edward T. (Terry) Atwood III, winner of the faculty-voted Algernon Sydney

Sullivan Award, is congratulated by President Huntley, Student Body
President Tom Hunter, and Dean of Students Lewis G. John.

 

The Lee-Jackson House, which is being completely renovated, Commencement procession winds its way along the walk from Washington Hall,
provided some spectators with a lofty view of the exercises. beneath a canopy of trees.

This age-old matter of ‘self

and its role in human dignity

President Huntley’s remarks to graduates, May 26, 1977.

There is an ancient technique of rhetoric or oratory
identified with Cicero. You’re familiar with it, I am
sure. It’s a technique by which the speaker tells the
audience the several things he’s not going to talk about,
and in the process sneaks in all the points he ever
intended to make about those subjects. I’m not going to
do that—both because it’s a tricky business, and
because I doubt if I could pull it off within the limits of
brevity to which I am happily confined.

If I were to have used that technique, however, I
could have mentioned at this point the possible speech
one might—and many do—make on such an occasion
as this. That’s the speech in which the graduates are
told how bad off things are around the world—the
energy crisis and overpopulation and
underemployment and all—and then are told that we,
the older folks, are counting on them, the younger
folks, to create a new dawn and straighten out all the
mistakes we’ve made.

One thing I’ve noticed about this speech is that it no
longer gets given as it once did. Back when I was your
age, and even after that for a while, this speech had a
lot of currency, and always included liberal references
to how much better the younger generation was than
those who had gone before and messed things up. The
speakers didn’t really believe it and neither did the
listeners. But then, somewhere in the middle and late
sixties, the young folks started believing what they were
being told, and much to the consternation of those who
had been telling them, began actively roaming around
the streets and even the campuses, looking for messes
to clean up and even creating a few messes for others
to clean up. That’s about when the speech stopped
being given, I think, and I’m certainly not going to
revive a dead tradition.

Then I could, if I were employing Cicero’s
technique, refer to a speech I might have given about
the plight of higher education, and its role, and
whether it’s filling that role. An article I saw just the
other day tells of a study a man has conducted that
seems to indicate that those who do best academically
in college do least well as human beings thereafter, that
they seem not to be as good at living as they are at
studying about living. This kind of speech would
suggest that the liberal education must be consciously
designed to do even more than provide intellectual

6

stimulus. That speech is being given a lot now, and I
think it’s got a lot in it. But not today.

The possible speech I really would have mentioned
most strongly, if I had employed Cicero, would have
been a talk about Washington and Lee. In this speech I
would have told you how deeply I think the values and
strengths of this dear old school deserve to be
continued in the times ahead, and I would have
reminded you, subtly or directly, that it is the hosts of
graduates who have preceded you who, as alumni and
friends of Washington and Lee, have paid for half the
cost of your education here and who have built all the
buildings and provided all the endowment, and how
important it is for Washington and Lee’s future for you
to feel the obligation and the desire to join this
procession. But that speech, too, is not for today.
Maybe now that you’re alumni you can help us find the
occasions to give it.

Instead of any of these, I thought to myself I’d try
to say in as few words as possible the message I myself
most need to hear and to learn—the message that I
might have needed to hear and learn also when I was
your age and sat where you sit.

The simplest message I can think of begins with a
simple, obvious rhetorical question:

Now, what are you going to do with yourself?

Someone told me a day or so ago about a
commencement speaker somewhere recently who got a
great chuckle from the audience by defining a college
freshman as someone with his umbilical cord in his
hand, looking for a place to plug it in. If that definition
applied to you as freshmen, I’m sure the cord by now is
gone—or, at worst, still unplugged.

You may be a part of a generation who will find it
more difficult than any previous generation to plug in
to something secure and comforting. Perhaps you saw
a recent column by James Reston addressed to the
Class of ’77.

Said Mr. Reston: “This year’s college graduates are
supposed to be the luckiest class since the last World
War. They are not being battered now by the cynicism
and pessimism of recent years. In some ways they have
advantages: no military draft, no conventions, Gods,
priests, teachers or even parents standing in their
way—nothing but Freedom.

“They are lucky, too, in other ways. It is not only
that they don’t have to face a military draft, but that
they can plan their lives with more assurance than their

 

parents and grandparents, that they probably won't
have to deal with the world wars and depressions of the
first quarters of the century. So things are different.”

After observing in the body of the column that a
renewed search for purpose in life seems to be under
way all over, he concluded: “Maybe this is going to be
the puzzle before this year’s college graduates. Not that
they will have to go to war, or drive smaller cars, or live
in houses that are not boiling in winter and freezing in
summer, but that they will be free to do what they
like—without any clear heroes, villains or ideologies. It
will not be easy, and in this sense maybe they were not
all that lucky.”

Reston also quoted Huxley: “A man’s worst
difficulties begin when he is free to do as he likes.”

Maybe it’s true that you are, though not totally free
to do as you like, freer than you have ever been before,
and probably than any who have gone before you have
been. For example, it is now more or less acceptable for
you to refute or deny almost anything you wish, even
the most honored taboos and even the most ancient
verities. You may talk more or less in the way that
pleases you, no matter whether it displeases or offends

others. You may dress more or less as you wish (except
at Commencement)—and most important, you may
within some boundaries of law act more or less as you
wish. Old fetters are weak and no longer bind very
tightly. Like the metaphors of a bad writer, our mores
are mixed.

Of course, there is still the force of circumstance to
limit us and on which to fix our blame for failure or
unhappiness. But more often than in times gone by, we
are forced to admit that our faults lie in ourselves, not
in our stars.

In the same way, old guides and channels are hard
to find and to rely on; there seem to be many more
paths to follow and, naturally, more need to resolve
doubt about which are best. Life is more fluid, less
externally directed.

The right and the wrong of things are not so clear.
There are problems of cosmic proportion, but their
very complexity makes them seem remote, and baffles
our principles as well as our minds. As someone has
put it, we no longer always know when to boo and
when to cheer.

It seems to me that the most noticeable and
important effect of all this is that we are increasingly
driven in on ourselves—on self. I believe that the
greatest danger in such times is that the need for self-
reliance will somehow force us into self-centeredness—
or, to use a more old-fashioned term, selfishness.

Preoccupation with self is surely one of mankind’s
most constant traits. Indeed, if there is such a thing as
original sin, it must derive from that tendency to self-
preoccupation.

Poets and writers and philosophers and psycholo-
gists, and just ordinary people, talk more about self
than about anything else. They talk about themselves;
and sometimes endlessly about the concept of self.

This is quite understandable. I think it was Thoreau
who put it something like this: “The reason I think so
much about myself is that I don’t know anyone else
half so well.” Walt Whitman put it more bluntly: “And
nothing, not God, is greater to one than one’s self is.”

Literally thousands of things have been said and
recorded about one’s concept of self. Let me give you a
few fairly random examples, many of which you will
recognize. Some of them make sense, some don’t, and
some are good and some are downright pernicious. I'll
let you decide that.

Balthasar Gracian: Trust your heart. Never deny tt a

7

President’s Commencement Remarks

hearing. It is the kind of house oracle that often foretells the most
umportant.

Joann Chenault: The value of existence lies in each per-
son's special potentialities to fully experience, live, and be his
own uniqueness.

Goethe: As soon as you trust yourself, you will know how
to live.

Walter Kaufman: The primary yes is self-affirmation; the
primary no, resentment of oneself.

Tennyson: Self-reverence, self-knowledge, self-control—
these three alone lead life to sovereign power.

Milton: Offtimes nothing profits more than self-esteem.

Pope: Know then thyself, presume not God to scan.

But also Pope: Go, teach eternal wisdom how to rule—
Then drop into thyself, and be a fool.

Juvenal: From the gods comes the saying “Know thyself”
(attributed to the Delphic oracle, surely an impeccable
source).

Carlyle: The folly of that impossible precept, “Know thy-
self,” till it be translated into this partially possible one, “Know
what thou cans’t work at.”

Arnold: Resolve to be thyself; and know, that he who

finds himself loses his misery.

Bacon: Be so true to thyself as thou be not false to others,
which Shakespeare had Polonius set upside down, you'll
remember: It is a poor center of man’s actions, himself. And
It 1s the nature of extreme self-lovers, as they will set a house on

fire, and it were but to roast their eggs.

Shakespeare: Love thyself last. (Henry VIII: iii, 1.
444)

Possibly one could say of all this what someone said of
economists (unjustly, I’m sure): If you laid them all end
to end, they still wouldn’t reach a conclusion. And I’m
pretty sure that statement could be applied to my own
homely thoughts on the subject, but I hope you'll be
tolerant if I give them to you anyway.

I'll start with this: Your concern should not be
whether you are being self-fulfilled, but whether what
you do helps fulfill others; if this is your concern, you
will be self-fulfilled.

Self-love is native to us; it does not need cultivation.
In the commandment of the prophets of the Old
‘Testament and the Christ of the New Testament,

“Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself,” self-love is
presupposed; it is love of others that is commanded.

Self-respect is not native to us, but it will not be
achieved at all by one who sets out with the purpose of
achieving it. It comes—in my judgment—only as the
; |

 

 

incident or result of respect for others.

It is by no means bad to'bask and glory in the
concern and love others may have for you, whether
you think you have earned it or not. But make certain,
if you can, that you are not deluding yourself by
merely basking in the Narcissus-like reflection of your
own love for yourself.

Modern psychology sometimes tells us that the key
to personal success is self-affirmation. I do not pretend
to know precisely what that means. If it means—with
Emerson and Goethe—trust yourself, then of course.
The person who thinks of himself as untrustworthy
certainly will be. If it means, though, say “yes” to self-
centeredness, then I say do so at your peril.

“Tm O.K., you’re O.K.” may be the psychologically
correct formulation of cause and effect, but I fear it is a
dangerous formula for life, for it may seem to invite
one to justify his own selfishness—or to manufacture
limitations in one’s self as excuses for failure or neglect,
a form of self-deception sometimes wrapped in false
humility.

Preoccupation with one’s own self-esteem may also lead
the other way, to false pride—that is, the kind of pride

which makes one think that only certain rather exalted your use of that power. It is this which one should

tasks are worthy of one’s self. If a task is worth being affirm, to which one should say “yes,” for in this lies
done at all, by anyone, it’s probably worth being done human dignity.
by you or me—if we’re up to it. Do it, do it well, do it And so, again, the question: Now, what are you
lovingly, and refuse to allow the string of tomorrows to going to do with yourself? No matter what the circum-
become a petty pace. stances you confront—in the only ways that really

Do not chronically second-guess yourself. Having matter—the answer to the question is up to you.
chosen a task, do not forever wonder if you took the Goodbye. Godspeed.

 

wrong turn at the last fork in the road; concern
yourself rather about the fork just ahead. It must have

 

been something like this that Satchel Paige meant when GRADUATING SONS OF ALUMNI, ’77
he said, “Don’t look back; something may be gaining on
you.” Thirty-three sons of alumni received degrees in May. They
Self is not a static thing, it is not a mute datum; the and their fathers are listed below:
process of knowing one’s self is not a kind of surgical Son Parent
examination which suddenly bares a thing called “self” Richard Jordan Bagby Edward Ballou Bagby, ’29A, ’31L
to which one then says “Yes, self, there you are—and William Marshall Broders Albert C. Broders Jr., ’38
since you're mine I think you’re O.K.” James Rodgers Brooks Frank C. Brooks, ’46
Self is rather the dynamic being which is you. It is William Dewey Cantler II James E. Cantler, ’50
not what you are, but what you can become. It is not a Stuart Warner Coco Stephen Philo Coco, ’51
thing that rules you and which you must accept, but Ernest Neal Cory II William R. Cory, 43
rather it is the ability you have to exercise sovereignty Jack Belding Dudley Albert: Henry: Dudley jr-.:44
James Hagood Fisher Lawrence John Fisher, ’42
over your own being and your own becoming. Indeed, R ; ;
oe .; obert Vernon Flint Jr. Robert Vernon Flint Sr., ’37
it is the primary way in which each of us does have Ro M Fred III R M Fred Ir..’
gers Murray Fre ogers Murray Fred Jr., ’50
sovereignty, or power if you wish—the power to direct Derek Holmes Hamilton William C. Hamilton, ’43A, ’49L
ourselves. Brentano Carl Harnisch Jr. Brentano C. Harnisch Sr., ’39
We are told that, in his last years, Lee was once Eugene Bruce Harvey Jr. | Eugene Bruce Harvey Sr., ’50
asked by the mother of a small infant what bit of Mark Elliott Hoffman Walter Roy Hoffman Jr., ’50
wisdom she could pass on to him. Lee replied, after Joseph Charles Honig Milton Arthur Honig, ’36
some thought, “Tell him to deny himself.” David R. Hunter Robert F. Hunter, ’42
Of course, I do not know what Lee meant by that— Richard Lawrence Lovegrove Charles Richard Lovegrove, ’53
but I should like to think he spoke from the depths of John W. McNamara Thomas R. McNamara, ‘52

his own tortured bouts with himself, and the wisdom James Franklin Norton Jr. James Franklin Norton, ’41

and equanimity he had painfully acquired. I should oe ones ib 7 ai - 7 ae ee 35
like to think he meant: “Tell him to deny self-pity, to sche S ho. ” wile d J. oC 39
control self-concern, to subdue self-love. Tell him to James Capps Root Paul B. Root Jr. BOA, ’52L
direct those instincts for pity and concern and love James U. Scott Marion Upshur Scott, ’43
outward where they nourish others rather than inward S. F. Raymond Smith Parker K. Smith Jr., ’53
where they will starve his soul.” Sam Bell! Steves II Marshall T. Steves, ’44

I think it may be accurate to say that the whole Paul Hampton Thomson Augustus P. Thomson, ’33
purpose of liberal education is to allow one to increase Theodore James Van Leer Maurice Theodore Van Leer, ’51
the scope of power or sovereignty over one’s self, the Charles Molton Williams Jr. Charles Molton Williams Sr., ’52
power of self-direction and the ability to perceive more Isaac Leake Wornom III —_ Isaac Leake Wornom Jr., 30
sensitively the worth and value of one’s actions. Thomas Patrick Wright Thomas Mahlon Wright, ’47
Education is liberal precisely insofar as it extends one’s LAW GRADUATES
freedom in this way. Everett A. Martin Jr. Everett A. Martin Sr., ’37

Of course, it follows that the more power you have Douglas M. Thomas Calvert Thomas, ’38A, ’40L

 

over yourself, the more responsible you must be for

Three senior professors who have
taught at Washington and Lee for a
combined total of 114 years retired at
the end of the year.

The three—William M. Hinton, who
taught psychology from 1930; Charles
V. Laughlin, who taught law from 1940;
and Felix P. Welch, who taught
mathematics from 1947—have been
elected professors emeritus by the W&L
Board of Trustees. They were recognized
at commencement and were given a
standing ovation.

Hinton is a 1929 B.A. graduate of
Washington and Lee. He received a
master’s degree from W&L a year later
and his Ph.D. in psychology from Ohio
State University in 1937.

From 1959 to 1972, he was head of
the W&L psychology department, and

L114 years
mn the

classroom,
well done!

for several years before that he had
been director of the University’s
counseling and placement service.

His teaching fields have included
elementary, educational, abnormal,
social, industrial and developmental
psychology, theories of personality, and
measurement of human traits and
abilities.

A licensed psychologist, Hinton has
also undertaken testing and consultation
work for the Rockbridge County welfare
department and has been chairman of
the Virginia Examining Board for
clinical psychologists.

He has taught on a part-time visiting
basis at the University of Virginia,
Virginia Military Institute, and Sweet
Briar and Randolph-Macon Woman’s
Colleges. He is a fellow of the American
Association for the Advancement of
Science and the American Psychological
Association and is a member and former
president of the Southern Society of
Philosophy and Psychology, the Virginia
Academy of Science, and the Virginia
Psychological Association.

Laughlin graduated first in his class
in 1929 at George Washington
University, where he also received his

10

B.A. degree. He holds the master’s
degree in law from Harvard and the
J.S.D., the highest degree in law, from
the University of Chicago.

He practiced law in Washington,
D.C., and later in Chicago, and taught
political science at Lenox Junior
College, Hopkinton, Iowa, before
joining W&L’s law faculty. His fields of
teaching specialization have included
evidence, labor law, administrative law
and jurisprudence, and he is widely
known as an authority in labor
arbitration. He has been an arbitrator
for the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service, has acted as a
court-appointed arbitrator in a large
number of cases over many years, and
has written extensively on the subject for
the American Bar Association Journal

professorship in mathematics since
joining the faculty in 1947. He was also
head of the department until 1972.

Before coming to Washington and
Lee, he taught for 18 years at Mississippi
State University, where he had earned
his undergraduate degree in chemistry.
He also holds the M.A. degree in
mathematics from the University of
Texas, and received his Ph.D. in 1937
from the University of Illinois.

One of his fields of research has
been developing visual aids in
mathematics, and in 1967 the Math-
ematical Association of America
sponsored an animated film, “The
‘Theorem of the Mean,” which Welch
produced.

He 1s also the co-author, with Robert
S. Johnson of the W&L mathematics

 

Retiring Professors Felix P. Welch, Charles V. Laughlin, and William M. Hinton.

and law reviews throughout the United
States.

He has had several John M. Glenn
research grants from W&L and in 1963-
6+ was a Fulbright Lecturer on
American law at the University of
Helsinki in Finland.

The W&L chapter of Delta Theta
Phi, a law fraternity, is named for
Laughlin and the late Dean Martin P.
Burks, and earlier this spring the Law
School Association, the W&L law alumni
organization, announced the establish-
ment of a new moot court (legal debate)
prize named in Laughlin’s honor. The
award, which carries a $250 stipend, will
be given to the first-year law student
who is selected the best oralist in the
moot court competition.

Welch has held W&L’s Cincinnati

faculty, of a text-workbook, “Calculus.”

A notoriously outspoken political
and campus conservative, Welch earned
a reputation for enlivening W&L faculty
meetings, always when they needed it
the most desperately. Once last year,
when a typical Welch-inspired epidemic
of general hysteria began to subside,
triggered by a particularly effective
deflation of a tortured theoretical
analysis one colleague or another had
attempted to develop, President Huntley
reminded him emphatically (perhaps
hopefully) that professors are urged to
continue to attend the faculty’s monthly
seances even after retirement—and,
more to the point, to continue
contributing to them in their own very
special ways. Even from the liberals,
there was no dissent.

 

How can a physician choose among
thousands of patients anxious for a new
cure? Is the claim of a young patient
with a long future before him any
greater than that of an older patient
who has suffered for many years?
Should a lawyer use every possible ploy
in defense of a client even if he himself
is convinced the client is guilty? Does he
not have a responsibility to protect
society as well as his client? What does
the newsman do who receives informa-
tion on the condition that his source
never be named and later is subpoenaed
to disclose his source’s identity? What
are his obligations to his contacts and to
the public when he is given “off the
record” information which is classified
that way, perhaps even by the contact’s
own admission, just to keep a serious
miscalculation or error in judgment
from becoming publicly known?

They’re not theoretical questions.
They are the kind that practicing
physicians, lawyers and journalists face
every day—perhaps not in cosmic,
headline-grabbing cases, but in close-to-
home ways that have consequences for
real people that will be no less deeply
felt.

Students at Washington and Lee—
and alumni in medicine, law and
journalism—have had an extraordinary
opportunity to grapple with exactly
those questions, and others they must
face as they exercise their professional
responsibilities, in a three-year-old ethics
program, “Society and the Professions,”
initiated by a $300,000 grant from The
Lilly Endowment of Indianapolis.

The program includes separate
courses in each of the three fields,
taught by W&L faculty members who
are joined regularly by eminent
practicing physicians, lawyers and
journalists and educators from other
colleges and universities.

Society
and the
Professions

Grappling with the hard
ethical puzzles in law,
medicine and journalism

An “institute” takes place annually in
each field as well, bringing alumni and
other practitioners to W&L for several
days, where they not only meet with
students—which has proved to be
valuable for the professionals no less
than for undergraduates who are intent
on joining the professionals—but also
have the opportunity to rub minds with
one another, thinking and sometimes
arguing, removed from the day-to-day
urgency of operating rooms and clinic
offices, courtrooms and client
conferences, newsrooms and incessant
deadlines. They find, in short, that
W&L provides them with a rare and
essential opportunity—the
encouragement to reflect, the chance to
shape reflections with the help of others
who are also concerned about knotty
problems.

Although the courses often treat
specific questions of morality, the point
is to “develop a rational process of
making a moral decision rather than to
teach morality,” according to Louis W.
Hodges, its founder and director.
Hodges, who has a Ph.D. in theology
from Duke, is an ordained Methodist
minister and co-author of The Christian
and His Decisions: An Introduction to
Christian Ethics (1969), and has been a
scholar in the field of ethics since
graduate-school days.

His approach is to combine
pre-professional training with the
University’s historical emphasis on
liberal arts. The two “are not in competi-
tion,” he says, “but rather complement
each other.” In his view, the ethics
program ought to acquaint students with
the critical “questions of value” they will
be expected to answer as professionals,
with the wealth of literature available,
and with the bases for developing a
“reasoned, systematic approach in
analyzing questions of human value.”

 

And the evidence is that the program
does precisely that. “The course [in jour-
nalism ethics] has helped me move
toward ‘ultimate standards’,” said one
May journalism gradyate, Robert
DiSilvestre. Of the three-day journalism
ethics institute, another May graduate,
James D. Schakenbach, remarked: “It
hit home. We encountered everything
we had studied in class, and more. I
learned of situations and problems a
journalist faces that I’d never thought of
before.”

The guest lecturers and professional
participants have been similarly
impressed by the institutes. A television
news executive representing WBTV in
Charlotte, N.C., circulated a memo in
his newsroom reviewing the insights he
had acquired at W&L. James Latimer,
the senior political reporter for the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch, wrote of his
gratitude for W&L’s examination of
“ethical paths we need to explore.” A
prominent neurologist who was a
lecturer in the first year of the pre-
medical ethics course, Dr. Irving S.
Cooper of St. Barnabas Hospital in New
York, was impressed enough to invite
succeeding classes to visit the hospital
themselves in order to see first-hand just
how the dilemmas the institute
examined are approached in reality.
The W&L students spent two days and
nights at St. Barnabas, listening to and
talking with patients in neurology—and
came away with an understanding of,
and sympathy for, the plight of patients
whose fears and anxieties, naturally
increased in a hospital environment,
seem often to be disregarded by
physicians who are more intent on
treating physical symptoms.

It’s something that cannot be taught
with a textbook. And that is precisely the
value of the ethics program.

1]

 

AWARD WINNERS

CLASSROOM BY Bos KEEFE, 68

SNOW SCENE BY RON Harr, ’76

MATH CLass By BoB LOCKHART, ’72
Misty MORNING BY MICKEY PHILIPPS, ’64

Pick of the Pics

Washington and Lee won two Citation Awards this summer
for portfolios of photographs in a nationwide competition
sponsored by the Council for Advancement and Support of
Education (CASE). W&L’s awards were among 50 presented by
CASE, chosen from among more than 700 entries.

One portfolio included photographs taken by Sally Mann,
the University’s chief photographer for the past two years.
Almost all her award-winning photos had appeared previously
in the alumni magazine. The other portfolio consisted of
photos taken by non-W&L professionals, students, non-pro-
fessional people on the University staff, and three of her pre-
decessors as staff photographers, A. Michael Philipps, ’64,
Robert H. Lockhart, ’72, and W. Patrick Hinely, ’73. Most of
those photographs have been used in admissions publications
and have not previously appeared in the alumni magazine. So
here, for your delectation, are some of W&L’s award-winning
photographs you may not have seen before.

12

 

 

  

RED SQUARE BY PAT HINELY, 773
CATALOGUE COVER BY SALLY MANN
CAT IN THE SUN BY PaT HINELY, 773
(GREENHOUSE BY RON Harr, ’76
W&L CROSSROADS BY SALLY MANN

13

by Bill Schnier

Sports Information Director

120 victories and 16 All-Americans;

it was a great year in athletics

The 1976-77 athletic year at
Washington and Lee concluded with the
golfers participating in the Division III
national championships and the tennis
team’s doubles combination playing in
the Division I championship.

Earlier, the lacrosse team completed
the season by losing to the University of
Maryland, 14-8, in the quarterfinals of
the University Division NCAA
tournament. The team won 11 of 15
games, winning seven of the last nine,
and was ranked fifth nationally in the
final USILA poll. It was the sixth
straight year the Generals were selected
to play in the NCAA tournament.

Overall, the 1976-77 athletic year was
one of the best ever.

For the first time since 1873, W&L
athletic teams won a combined total of
more than 100 victories—120 wins, 80
losses, and two ties. The 12
intercollegiate teams won 60 per cent of
their contests. The basketball team led
the way with a 23-5 mark. The tennis
team had 15 victories, the lacrosse team
11, and the golf and wrestling teams 10
each. The cross country runners just
missed the double figures with nine
wins.

And for the first time ever, W&L’s
number of All-Americans went into
double figures—and by a wide margin.
W&L had 16 All-Americans in 1976-77,
with 10 of them being first-team
selections. Those 10 were Tony Perry
(wide receiver) in football, Tom Keigler
(defense) in lacrosse, Jerry Maatman in
golf, Ben Johns and Stewart Jackson in
tennis, and John Hudson, Tad Van
Leer, Chip Hoke, Keith Romich, and
Scott Duff in swimming. Third-team
selections were Pat Dennis (guard) in
basketball and Charlie Brown (goalie) in
lacrosse. Honorable mention went to
Jack Dudley (middie), Doug Fuge
(middie), and Jeff Fritz (attack) in
lacrosse.

Nationally, the tennis Generals
finished as the nation’s second-ranked
Division III team, with the doubles
combination of Ben Johns and Stewart

14

 

Most Valuable Athlete Tom Keigler

Jackson winning the Division III doubles
championship. They went on to the
Division I tournament, losing to the
doubles team from U.C.L.A..

The basketball Generals were the
nation’s fourth-ranked Division III team
in the final NCAA poll. The golfers
finished in seventh place in the Division
III championships, and the swimmers
ended in ninth place.

The Generals’ athletic teams won the
overall supremacy in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference (ODAC) by taking
four of 10 team championships and five
Player of the Year awards. Team
winners were in basketball, wrestling,
tennis, and golf. Players of the Year
were Tony Perry (football), Pat Dennis
(basketball), Jim Crytzer (wrestling), Ben
Johns (tennis), and Dave Leunig (golf).

W&L also had four Coaches of the
Year in Verne Canfield (basketball),
Gary Franke (wrestling), Dennis Bussard
(tennis), and Buck Leslie (golf).

At the Univesity’s annual Sports
Barbecue held on Wilson Field on May
19, senior lacrosse All-American Tom
Keigler was named the recipient of the

 

Preston R. Brown Memorial Award,
given annually to W&L’s Most Valuable
Athlete. A native of Towson, Md., and a
graduate of Towson High, Keigler was a
third-team All-American as a

sophomore and a first-team choice for
the last two seasons.

Senior Larry Banks of Willingboro,
N.J., was the winner of the Wink
Glasgow Spirit and Sportsmanship
Award, and Stewart Atkinson of Atlanta,
Ga., was named the University’s
Outstanding Freshman Athlete of the
Year.

Washington and Lee had 35 first-
team ODAC All-Conference selections
this year, led by the tennis team which
swept all six singles and all three doubles
matches and the golfers who placed four
of a possible seven men on the team.
Eight of the eleven W&L athletic teams
(counting indoor and outdoor track as
one) now have winning career records,
led by the swimming Generals with a
229-103-1 mark in 57 seasons.

And W&L intercollegiate athletics is
expanding. In the fall, water polo will be
added as W&L’s 13th varsity sport.

 

Goalie Charlie Brown in action against N. C. State

 

High-Jumper Tony Perry

Top Golfer Dave Leunig

 

 

1977 Football Schedule

Sept. 10
Sept. 17
Sept. 24
Oct. |

Oct. 8

Oct. 15
Oct. 22
Oct. 29
Nov. 5

Nov. 12
Nov. 19

Lock Haven State Home
Davidson Away
Centre Home
Randolph-Macon Away
Maryville Home
(Homecoming)
Hampden-Sydney Away
Sewanee Away
Bridgewater Home
(Parents’ Weekend)
Emory & Henry Away
Gettysburg Away
Georgetown Home

1977 Soccer Schedule

Sept. 17-18
Sept. 24
Sept. 28
Oct. |

Oct. 5

Oct. 8

Oct. 15
Oct. 19
Oct. 22
Oct. 26
Oct. 28

Nov. 1
Nov. 4
Nov. 9

Va. Wesleyan Tour. Away

Radford Away
Richmond Away
Eastern Mennonite Home
Roanoke Home
Elizabethtown Away
Lynchburg Away
Hampden-Sydney Home
VMI Home
Navy Home
Virginia Away
Madison Away
Virginia Tech Away

U.N.C.-Greensboro Home

1977 Cross Country

Sept. 24
Oct. 1
Oct. 8
Oct. 14
Oct. BY
Oct. 24
Oct. 29
Nov. 3
Nov. 12

Davis & Elkins, Shepherd,
W.Va. Tech Home

Roanoke, Norfolk State Home

Va. Wesleyan, Norfolk State,

Lynchburg Lynchburg
Roanoke,

Bridgewater Bridgewater
Emory & Henry Away
Davidson Away

Madison, E. Mennonite,
Hampden-Sydney Home
ODAC
Championships Salem
NCAA Dvv. III
Championships Cleveland

 

15

el gazette

 

Life can be beautiful
in the Robert E. Lee

When 405 applicants, more than ex-
pected, accepted Washington and Lee’s
invitation to join the Class of 1980 last
year, University officials housed 30
overflow freshmen in the Robert E.
Lee—now a completely residential—
hotel. Rather than being disappointed at
their separation from campus, the
freshmen immediately recognized the
advantages of hotel living. Quiet
carpeted hallways and rooms, private
baths, and elevator service to their
second- and third-floor rooms were
definitely more plush than the freshmen
dormitories.

Living off campus did have some
drawbacks. Those who tended to be
forgetful soon discovered the
inconvenience of leaving a notebook or
textbooks back at the hotel, of course, it
took a little longer to get to class. But
then the freshmen enjoyed getting to
know Lexington townspeople on their
way to “the hill.” “It got so the salesmen
at J. Ed Deaver’s would recognize me
before I’d have a chance to say ‘hi’ to
them,” said Danny Carucci.

Their social life didn’t suffer either.
Friends from campus came to visit often
with the happy result that several
freshmen lacrosse players were adopted
by the group; fall rush was carried on
enthusiastically in hotel hallways despite
the distance from Red Square; a Sweet
Briar dorm section struck up a
friendship with the freshmen (mostly
through the efforts of Terry “Dad”
Atwood, ’77, hotel-dorm counselor) and
the two groups gave parties for each
other in the Robert E. Lee Ballroom and
at Sweet Briar’s Boathouse.

“It was more like a fraternity than a
dormitory,” said Atwood. “everyone got
along. We were all friends.”

They also became “good buddies”
with their fellow residents—for the most
part senior citizens who have lived at the
hotel for years, among them Arthur
Silver, who used to run a men’s shop
next door to the hotel. Together they
worked out a relationship so that the
students kept their nighttime noise to a
minimum and the older residents
overlooked their “college pranks”—such
as stopping the elevator between floors

16

 

Freshmen take the sun on ballroom terrace of the Robert E. Lee.

and playing baseball in the hallways.

“I think they felt safer having 30
strong W&L students in the hotel. We
helped to keep the lobby clear of young
teenagers who'd gotten in the habit of
hanging out there, and the old folks
appreciated that,” said Carucci.

Freshmen not only policed the lobby,
but they kept an interested eye on their
downtown neighborhood as well. Late
one spring night Steve Johnson and Ned
McDonald were leaning out a hotel
window and saw someone on the roof of
the Texaco service station next door.
“We thought that was pretty suspicious,
so we Called the police. They came and
caught two guys trying to break in the
station,” said Johnson. The two students
later testified in court.

In the springtime the ballroom
balcony was a favorite spot for sunning
and studying. “We’d take mattresses out
there and a couple of ballroom sofas.
Somebody would have a radio going.
We'd bring iced tea and cards. . . . It was
kind of like Miami Beach. And if we got
tired of studying, there was always
something to watch down on the street,”
said Johnson.

Atwood attributes “a fantastic year”
to the successful combination of
energetic young men and the quiet old
hotel. “The fellows were great, and
experiences like having dorm meetings
in the honeymoon suite were
unforgettable.”

 

W&L’s ‘citizen-soldiers’
topic of new publication

An anthology containing 17 essays
tracing the history of the involvement of
Washington and Lee students and

faculty in the nation’s major military
conflicts has been published by the
University.

The volume, The Citizen Soldier: A
Washington and Lee Tradition, was
edited by Capt. John R. Miller, ’67,
assistant professor of military science for
the past two years.

All 17 essays were written by W&L
students enrolled in the Reserve Officer
Training Corps program.

Topics covered range from the
Revolutionary and Mexican wars
through the Civil, Spanish-American
and World Wars, to W&L’s role in the
Korean conflict and student activism at
the University in the late 1960s.

Copies of the 134-page paperbound
book may be ordered at $3 postpaid
through the Military Science
Department, W&L, Lexington, Va.
24450.

 

Johnson named math head;
Roberts is Cincinnati professor

Robert Stanley Johnson, professor of
mathematics, has been named to a five-
year term as head of that department.
His new appointment becomes effective
Sept. 1.

Johnson succeeds Robert A. Roberts,
who completes his five-year term as
department head this year.

In addition, the Board cf Trustees
has named Roberts as the Cincinnati
Professor of Mathematics at the Univer-
sity. As occupant of that endowed chair,
Roberts succeeds Felix P. Welch, who re-
tired from teaching at the end of the
academic year upon reaching the age of
70.

Johnson is a Ph.D. graduate of the

University of North Carolina. He
received his undergraduate education at
Georgetown (Ky.) College. His fields of
teaching specialization are algebra and
fundamental mathematics concepts. He
joined the W&L faculty in 1965.

Roberts has taught at W&L since
1972, coming from Denison University
as professor and department head. He
studied at West Virginia Wesleyan
College, West Virginia and Harvard
Universities, and the University of
Michigan, where he earned the Ph.D.
degree in 1953. He had taught at West
Virginia, the University of Miami, and
Ohio Wesleyan before going to Denison
in 1961.

The Cincinnati professorship—
W&L’s oldest endowed teaching chair—
dates to the mid-19th century, when the

 

Society of the Cincinnati voted to give its Danny N. Murphy

treasury to what was then named
Washington College.

 

Translation by Dickens
chosen as ‘outstanding’

A book of German prose in transla-
tion, of which a Washington and Lee
teacher was co-translator, has been
named one of the outstanding academic
books published in 1976.

David B. Dickens, associate professor
of German, was one of three co-
translators of The Complete Narrative
Prose of Conrad Ferdinand Meyer,
published by Bucknell University Press.

The “outstanding” designation came
from Choice magazine, the principal
reference publication for academic and
public libraries.

 

Murphy returns in admissions,
fraternity-coordinator posts

Danny Nolen Murphy, who was
assistant admissions director and
assistant dean of students from 1973 to
1975, will rejoin the University’s
admissions staff in a similar capacity this
fall.

Murphy will also fill the newly
created position of coordinator of frater-
nity affairs. The W&L Alumni Board
had strongly urged that the University
designate an official in the dean of
students’ office to have formal
responsibility for liaison with the 15
social fraternities on campus.

A 1973 graduate with majors in both
English and sociology, he initially
worked in admissions at W&L in a
program under which a new graduate is

employed for one year, occasionally two,
in that capacity.

From 1975 he has been employed by
Citizens & Southern Bank of Atlanta
and, since last year, by Proctor &
Gamble in Charlotte, N.C.

In his new position he will travel
extensively to secondary schools and will
interview prospective W&L students on
campus as well. In addition, he will be a
member of the admissions and financial
aid committees.

Murphy succeeds J. Martin Bass and
H. Robert Huntley, both of whom have
been actively involved in admissions
work. Bass, assistant alumni secretary
and assistant admissions director, has
entered the private practice of law in
Fredericksburg, Va. Huntley, a
professor of English who has been
extremely active in student recruitment
and counseling, has been named
coordinator of the freshman year and
associate admissions director, succeeding
William A. Noell, who has joined the
University of Virginia law school
administration.

 

About those ginkgo trees,
a postscript

Those two stately ginkgo trees that
grace the entrance of the President’s
House were not planted by Gen. Robert
E. Lee as reported in the March issue of
the magazine. They were planted circa
1917 by orders of Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, president of Washington and Lee
from 1912 to 1929.

His son, Frank S. Smith, ’32, of
Greensboro, N. C., remembers the
occasion well. He was a small boy at the
time, and he reports that the process

was particularly interesting to him
because his father used an unusual
planting technique that he must have
learned in connection with an apple
orchard he owned in North Carolina.
Instead of normal digging, a small
charge of dynamite was fired a few feet
down to loosen the surrounding earth.

Young Smith observed the process
with only his head sticking around the
corner of the house nearest the street.
But he was disappointed. Instead of a
spectacular explosion, there was simply
a dull thud and slight disturbance of the
surface of the ground.

His sister, Miss Julia D. Smith of
Greensboro, recalls another footnote on
the ginkgos. It is her impression, she
reports, that her father planted the trees
at the suggestion of Henry Bacon,
designer of the Lincoln Memorial and
architect of Doremus Gymnasium.
Bacon stayed with the Smiths on several
occasions during the planning and
construction of the gymnasium and
made several suggestions concerning
campus landscaping which Dr. Smith
put into effect.

 

New Lee letters

“With a view of testifying the esteem
felt for his character . . . all academic
services will be suspended for the day...
to pray the last sad tribute to his earthly
remains while cherishing in their hearts
his many virtues.”

So wrote Robert E. Lee in 1869, in
tribute to a young Washington College
professor who had just died. It is one of
two autographed announcements
recently acquired by the University.

“All my life ’ve wanted a signature
of Robert E. Lee, but I never expected
anything so unique, nor have I seen
anything like it before,” said Mrs. Emily
Penick Pearce, custodian of Lee Chapel
and owner of the document, which she
intends to leave to the University.

Mrs. Pearce acquired the
announcement last year from a woman
who had purchased a stack of old books
at a local auction, not knowing the letter
was glued inside the front cover of one
of them.

Luckily, the woman realized what she
had, and brought the announcement to
Mrs. Pearce, who identified the letter as
authentic.

The second announcement, also
written in 1869, is a gift to W&L from
Mrs. Alfred F. Taylor of Grosse Point
Farms, Mich. The directive is an appeal
to Washington College students not to
cause a disturbance on April Fool’s Day.

17

Mrs. Taylor gave it to W&L at the
time of her husband’s 50th class reunion
May 7. She is the granddaughter of E.
C. Gordon, secretary to Lee and a long-
time trustee of the college.

“We're most appreciative to receive
documents written by Gen. Lee when he
was president of the college,” remarked
Maurice D. Leach, head librarian. “Such
gifts add immeasurably to our research
collections.”

 

Springtime faculty
publications

A new edition of a book by one
Washington and Lee professor, a new
volume edited by another, and a
biographical essay by another have
recently been published.

Edgar W. Spencer, head of the
geology department, is the author of Jn-
troduction to the Structure of the Earth,
Just released in a new and substantially
revised edition by McGraw Hill. The
first edition of the upper-level college
text was published in 1969.

Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of
economics, is the editor of Expanding
Economic Concepts of Regulation in
Health, Postal and Telecommunication
Services, an anthology of five research
papers presented last summer at a
symposium jointly sponsored by
Washington and Lee and the Chesapeake
& Potomac Telephone Cos. The book is
the fourth to result from the annual
W&L-C&P series, which Phillips has
organized and directed since 1973. The
fifth will take place in August, and
another collection of papers is expected
to be published afterwards.

Charles W. Turner, professor of
history, is the author of an essay on the
life of Stephen Powers, who crossed the
United States on foot in 1868, a 3,500-
mile journey which took him 10 months
to complete. The article was published
in South California Quarterly. Turner has
written extensively on 19th-century
personalities, and is the author of three
recently published volumes of
Rockbridge County history.

 

Recent visitors
to the campus

—Lord Caradon, former British
ambassador to the United Nations and
governor of Nigeria, Cyprus and
Jamaica, for a week’s stay to meet with
students in class and informally and for
a public talk, “Three Danger Areas:

18

 

Sigma Nu fraternity, founded in 1869 in Lexington,
had its annual “College of Chapters” at Washington
and Lee in June, with 350 undergraduate chapter
representatives from throughout the nation in atten-
dance. Speakers at the convention included FBI Di-
rector Clarence Kelly (left, in Lee Chapel) and Presi-
dential Press Secretary Jody Powell (in Evans Hall).

Southern Africa, the Middle East, and
Cyprus,” sponsored by the Woodrow
Wilson Visiting Fellows program;

—John T. Fey, ’39, chairman of the
board of The Equitable Life Assurance
Society and former president of the Uni-
versities of Wyoming and Vermont, for
an address, “The Role of the Corpora-
tion in Modern Society,” the eighth
speaker in the Commerce Alumni
Lecture Series, and for induction as an
honorary member of Beta Gamma
Sigma, the honorary business-adminis-
tration society;

—Willard Gaylin, co-founder and
president of the Institute of Society,
Ethics and Life Sciences and professor
of clinical psychiatry at Columbia
University Medical School, for a lecture,
“Who Speaks for the Helpless Child?”,
sponsored by W&L’s ethics-in-society
program;

—Langdon Gilkey, author of the
best-selling book Shantung Compound and
professor of theology at the University
of Chicago Divinity School, for a lecture,
“Religious Dimensions of Political
Experience,” sponsored by the W&L
religion department;

—Jerome Kagan, professor of
human development at Harvard
University and former member of the
President’s Science Advisory Committee,
for a lecture, “Social and Personality De-
velopment,” sponsored by the psy-
chology department.

 

Shenandoah receives
a grant and an award

Shenandoah, Washington and Lee
University’s quarterly literary review,
has been awarded a $1,000 matching
grant by the Coordinating Council of
Literary Magazines. Shenandoah has
received similar grants before from the
Council to support its publication.

In addition, Shenandoah’s editor,
James Boatwright, and one of his poets,
Paul Monette, won a Coordinating
Council of Literary Magazines Award,
given annually to recognize outstanding
editors and writers in the noncommercial
literary magazine community. More
than 270 writers were nominated by 177
editors for the ten awards—five in
poetry and five in fiction.

Monette’s poem “Bones and Jewels”
was published in the magazine in 1976.

 

Modern theatrical
classics in repertory

‘Two contemporary American plays
were presented during the Spring Term
by the University Theatre, directed by
drama majors as their senior thesis pro-
jects—Neil Simon’s sophisticated comedy
Barefoot in the Park and Arthur Miller’s
Pulitzer Prize-winning Death of A Sales-
man. Robert A. Carpentier of East
Meadow, N.Y., directed Barefoot, and
John Hollinger of McLean, Va., directed
Salesman. The two plays were presented
in alternate-night performances in the
“Boiler Room Theatre” in Old Main
Street, the new indoor mall in Lexington
across from the Troubadour Theatre on
Main Street.

 

Miscellany

Never do today what you can put off ’til
tomorrow: One W&L senior this spring
had never gotten around to completing
a portion of his physical-education re-
quirement for graduation—running a
mile and a half in 12 minutes.

Came the day before graduation,
when the faculty votes formally on
granting degrees, and the publicly
unnamed senior was still on the list of
students who'd failed to meet all their
graduation requirements.

An obliging athletic department,
however, was willing to let him have one
last try before the faculty meeting.

One problem, though, was that the
meeting was set for 9 o’clock in the
morning. Another was that it was
pouring rain. But what must be done
must be done, and it absolutely couldn’t
be postponed any longer.

And so at 7:15 a.m., at the height of
the deluge, under the watchful eye of a
coach, with his girlfriend and a brave
little band of fraternity brothers
cheering him on with as much heart as
they could muster, he actually did it, and
graduated on time.

Exhausted, perhaps—but on time.

Chapter news

LONG ISLAND. The lacrosse game on
April 6 between Washington and Lee
and Hofstra University was the occasion
for a meeting of the Long Island Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni. After a
reception, cocktails, and dinner at the
West Inn Restaurant, the enthusiastic
group attended the nighttime game and
cheered the Generals to a 13-9 victory.
Arrangements for the gathering were
made by Ken Vandewater, ’41, president
of the Sentinel Printing Co. in Hemp-
stead, L.I.

BALTIMORE. Alumni, wives, and
friends of the Baltimore chapter,
together with a number of Eastern
Shore alumni, met prior to the W&L-
Towson lacrosse game for cocktails and
a buffet dinner at the Towson Club on
April 16. The enthusiastic group went
on to the game and watched the
Generals win 13-7. Arrangements for
the fun event were made by John H.
West ITI, ’65, chapter president.

DETROIT. Alumni from the Detroit
area met on May 18 and discussed plans
for a fully organized chapter of the
Alumni Association. The group,
including wives and dates, met for
cocktails and dinner at the Country Club
of Detroit at Grosse Point Farms. Special
guests were Calvert Thomas, 38, ’40L, a
trustee of Washington and Lee and
assistant general counsel and secretary
of General Motors, and Mrs. Thomas;
William P. Boardman, 63, a member of
the Alumni Board of Directors from
Columbus, Ohio; Farris Hotchkiss, ’58,
director of development; and Bill Wash-
burn, ’40, alumni secretary. Thomas
reported on the structure of the Board
of Trustees and explained the
responsibilities of a trustee. Boardman
congratulated the group on its initial
meeting and plans to organize
permanently. He stressed the
importance of active alumni to the
successful operation of the University.
Hotchkiss spoke briefly on the
University’s development program, and
Washburn presented color slides of the
campus. The arrangements were made
by Alfred Taylor, ’27, and William J.
Scott, 42.

LYNCHBURG. Stalwart alumni
successfully took on a VMI alumni team
in softball May 22 at Randolph-Macon
Woman's College. A. Lea Booth, ’40,
starred at first base and led fellow

 

FASTERN SHORE—Above: James P. Fristoe, ’40; Ms. Marjorie McKenzie; John M. Duckworth, ’71;

Mrs. Duckworth; Frank Hynson, ’41. Below: Broughton M. (Bo) Earnest, 65; Mrs. Earnest; James M.

Slay Jr., 65, °71L; Alexander P. Rasin IIT, ’65.

 

teammates to an overwhelming 22-4
win. The victory offset the one-point
loss the Generals suffered from the
Keydets in a 1976 flag football game. A
“dutch” picnic lunch preceded the
game.

EASTERN SHORE. Alumni, wives,
and friends of Washington and Lee
enjoyed cocktails and a lovely buffet at
the Talbot Country Club in Easton, Md.,
on June 3 and discussed plans for
organizing an alumni chapter.
Arrangements for the gathering were
made by Mr. and Mrs. Richard K.
White, ’60, ’63L. Special guests were Mr.
and Mrs. E. Marshall Nuckols, rector of

the Board of Trustees, and fellow
‘Trustee Frank C. Brooks, 56, and Mrs.
Brooks from Baltimore. The University
was well-represented by Farris P.
Hotchkiss, 58, director of development,
John Duckworth, ’71, development staff
associate, and Bill Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary. White presided over
the short program which included brief
remarks from each of the University
guests. Interest in the formation of an
alumni chapter led to the appointment
of a committee to work with Washburn.
Plans were announced for an October
exhibit of Louise Herreshoff paintings
in Salisbury, Md.

 

WSL friends were present to help Robert L. Pinck, ’42, and Mrs. Pinck (right) celebrate his Distinguished
American Award presented to him by the Passaic County (N.J.) Chapter of the National Football
Foundation and Hall of Fame April 22 in Wayne, N. J. They are (from left) Walt Michaels, ’51, head
coach of the New York Jets; John L. (Jack) Mangan, ’42, captain of the 1942 WEL football team; Mrs.
Bert Kadis and Kadis, a member of the 42 team; and Riley Smith, Pinck’s WSL football coach.

19

Class notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

Why not a WSL rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$68.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$58.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:
Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and_ telephone
number.

 

 

20

1922

Dewey A. REYNOLDS, one of the men who
originated the Mines-American Gas
Association method for carbonizing coal, has
received the U.S. Department of the Interior’s
Meritorious Service Award and Silver Medal.
Reynolds, a former employee of the Bureau of
Mines, retired from government service last
fall. During 36 years of service with the Bureau,
all of it at the Central Experimental Station at
Pittsburgh, he gained world recognition as an
authority in coal carbonization and related
fields. Besides being the author and co-author
of more than 120 publications based on his re-
search work, he conducted classes at
Pennsylvania State University and supervised
the training of many foreign students in the
carbonization field.

1927

R. S. BARNETT JR., president and manager of
Elms Farming Companies of Altheimer, Ark.,
and the Word Farming Companies of Wab-
baseka, is a director of the National Bank of
Commerce in Little Rock. He has held the posi-
tion since 1956. Barnett is a member of the Uni-
versity of Arkansas Development Council and a
trustee of the Ben J. Altheimer Foundation. He
also serves as a director of Ricelands Foods in
Stuttgart, chairman of the Board of First
National Bank in Altheimer, and president of
Southern Compress in Pine Bluff. He was one
of the original members of the Pine Bluff
Jefferson County Port Authority. In 1967 he
received a citation for Man of the Year in Ar-
kansas Agriculture.

1929

HENRY P. JOHNSTON SR. was the principal
speaker at the Birmingham, Ala., Genealogical
Society meeting in the Birmingham Public
Library on April 23. Johnston is a retired radio
and television executive who has written
several genealogical and family books. He
continues to be active in many civic organiza-
tions he has been associated with for years. His
latest book, published early last year, was
William R. King and His Kin.

WILLIAM B. LotrT lives in Daphne, Ala., very
near the Grand Hotel at Point Clear. He plays
golf regularly and encourages all classmates to
join him.

Dr. ROBERT H. WILLIAMS, University of Wash-
ington professor of medicine and head of the
Diabetes Research Institute, was recently
presented the George M. Kober Medal at the
annual meeting of the Association of American
Physicians. Williams was recently elected to the
Johns Hopkins Society of Scholars which was

The porch of the Alumni House was
filled with seniors and their dates at-
tending the reception and buffet for
the Class of 1977, sponsored by the

established to honor distinguished former
postdoctoral fellows of that university.

1930

Dr. A. MCGEHEE HARVEY was recently awarded
the Distinguished Teacher Award by the Board
of Regents of the American College of
Physicians during ceremonies at their annual
meeting in Dallas, Texas. At the age of 34,
Harvey became the youngest medical professor in
the history of Johns Hopkins University. He was
chairman of the department of medicine at the
School of Medicine and physician-in-chief at
the Johns Hopkins Hospital from 1946 to 1973.
Harvey is senior editor of the 19th edition of
“The Principles and Practice of Medicine,”
which is used throughout the world by medical
school students. The text was originally written
by Sir William Osler, the first physician-in-chief
at Johns Hopkins. Harvey also serves as an
archivist for the Johns Hopkins Medical In-
stitutions.

CHARLES M. SMITH is retired after many years in
government service. He was legislative liaison
for the department of HUD and, for some
periods, was on the White House Staff. His last
post was assistant director of planning of the
Coastal Plains Regional Commission.

1931

BEVERLY J. LAMBERT JR. retired June 30 as
president of the First State Bank in Crossett,
Ark. Lambert lives in Little Rock.

1932

IrvinG E. Dosss took early retirement seven
years ago. He has a motor home and travels ex-
tensively in this country and abroad.

ARTHUR B. ScuarrF retired from Washington
and Lee as associate professor emeritus in June,
1976; and now lives in Charlottesville.

1933

G. W. FLack, an employee for 32 years with
Union Carbide Corp., is retired and now lives in
Daytona Beach, Fla. Flack last served Union
Carbide in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was training
director, superintendent of industrial relations
and administrative assistant of technical
recruitment. Flack was a past president of the
Oak Ridge Chamber of Commerce, the Ameri-
can Red Cross, Regional Mental Health Center,
and was awarded the Silver Beaver for 28 years
of service with the Boy Scouts of America. He
was also a member of the National Council of
the Boy Scouts of America.

H. CAvETT ROBERT was speaker at a seminar on
April 19 sponsored by the sales and marketing

Alumni Association.

executives of Erie, Pa. For several years, Robert
was associated with a large New York law firm
and later became a member of the New York
District Attorney’s staff during the famous
racket investigations. Later he was a utility
speaker and director of one of the nation’s
largest sales organizations and now works full
time as a convention speaker, sales trainer and
management consultant. Through the years
Robert has received many awards and honors.
In 1972, he received the coveted Golden Gaval
Award presented by Toastmasters Interna-
tional to the nation’s outstanding speaker in the
field of leadership and communication. Robert
is the author of several books including Human
Engineering and Motivation.

1934

Retired Chief Justice THORNTON G. BERRY JR.
of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Vir-
ginia was subject of a feature article published
in the law college newspaper at West Virginia
University. Berry retired Dec. 31, 1976, from
the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia
but returned to private practice with the law
firm of Jackson, Kelly, Holt, and O'Farrell in
Charleston. While a judge, he led the way in
getting the Judicial Reform Amendment
passed. Berry began law practice in Welch, W.
Va., and went on to an appointment as assistant
United States attorney for the southern district
of West Virginia; he was later elected prosecut-
ing attorney of McDowell County. He entered
the Navy in 1942 and served during World War
II. He returned to his Welch law practice in
1946. From 1952-58 he served as judge of the
8th Judicial Circuit and was a Justice of
the Supreme Court from 1958-76. He serv-
ed as president of the Supreme Court in
1963 and 1968; became its first Chief Jus-
tice in 1973 and was chosen by his fellow
Justices as the first permanent Chief Justice in
1975. Berry has received numerous honors
including an award from the American
Judicature Society—the Herbert Lincoln
Harley Award—given to him in recognition of
his promotion of the efficient administration of
justice.

EVERETT TUCKER JR., a member of the Board of
Governors of Sewanee Academy, made the
commencement address at the Academy on
May 29. Tucker is president of the Industrial
Development Co. in Little Rock, Ark., and is a
former president of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association.

JOHN B. NICHOLSON Jr., director of the Univer-
sity of Baltimore Library, has been elected

executive director of the Board of Directors of

 

the Congress of Academic Library Directors in
Maryland. The appointment involves the
planning of statewide library programs.
Nicholson was previously an associate professor
and director of the Department of Library
Technology at Cantonsville Community
College and previous to that assignment was
affiliated with Kent State University in Ohio.

1936

J. VAUGHAN BEALE, an attorney in Franklin,
Va., has been elected a director of the Virginia
State Chamber of Commerce. Beale was an
F.B.I. agent for seven years and later was
commonwealth attorney for Franklin-South-
hampton for several years. Since 1967 he has
been in private practice. He is on the board of
deacons of the Franklin Congregational
Christian Church and a former chairman and
secretary of the church’s board of trustees. He is
a former vice mayor of Franklin and holds
memberships in the county, state and Ameri-
can Bar Association. He and his wife, the
former Marydele Jane Stulting of Houston,
Texas, have three children.

WILLIAM W. GERBER retired on May 1, 1977, as
vice president of sales for Gold Bond Building
Products Division of National Gypsum Co.,
after 41 years of service.

PAUL G. HERVEY continues as chairman of the
department of psychology and education at Del
Mar College in Corpus Christi, Texas.

Dr. JAMES L. PRICE has been elected chairman
of the University Research Council at Duke
University.

1937

JAMEs S. Bruce has been elected by the share-
holders to the board of directors of Eastman
Kodak Co. He is a company vice president and
director of corporate relations.

DONALD R. Moore is counsel to the law firm of
Craig & Antonelli in Washington, D.C. He
retired in 1975 as an administrative law judge
for the Federal Trade Commission after nearly
35 years of government service.

JOHN C. NEELy has retired from federal service
with HEW. In June, he and his wife moved to
Tequesta, Fla. They have two sons, one a
professor at Lord Fairfax Community College
in Middletown, Va., and the other a justice of
the West Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals.

Watson A. SUDDUTH raises pecans and is in the
general insurance business in Vicksburg, Miss.
He is retired from the U.S. Air Force Reserves.

21

Class Notes

1938

The REv. ARTHUR L. BICcE has retired from the
active parochial ministry. A reception was held
in his honor at the Emmanuel Parish House in
Little Falls, N.Y. on June 12.

POWELL GLAss Jr., publisher of The News and
The Daily Advance in Lynchburg, Va., has been
named a member of the board of directors of
the American Federation of Small Business.
The Federation promotes the importance of
small business and advocates the interest of
small business.

Jay H. RE Jr. is director of the office of public
information of the International Monetary
Fund with offices in Washington, D.C.

1939

Joun D. Goopin was elected president of the
Past National Commander Organization.

J. VAUGHAN BEALE (See 1936.)

1940

JOHN C, WHITE continues as general counsel for
the Private Truck Council of America, Inc.,
with offices in Washington, D.C.

1941

Dr. RoBerr E. LEE is a professor at the Univer-
sity of West Florida and in charge of
mathematics teacher training. He lives in
Pensacola where he also conducts attitude
training seminars for management personnel.

1942
WILLIAM L. BRUCE is presently in charge of the
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. plant in Rome,
Italy.

1943

JAMES G. LAPLANTE, senior vice president and
treasurer for Industrial Indemnity Co. in San
Francisco, has been elected president of the San
Francisco Chapter of the Financial Executives
Institute. The Institute is comprised of
executives with major financial responsibility
for their organizations. The San Francisco
chapter has over 250 members.

After a recent assignment at the U.S. Embassy
in New Delhi, India and two-and-one-half years
as a foreign service inspector, GRANT E.
MOUuSER III is now assigned as diplomat-in-resi-
dence and visiting professor of political science
at Allegheny College in Meadville, Pa. He
expects an overseas assignment from the
Department of State this summer.

AZ

   

1944

JOHN N. McCormick has joined Drake-Beam &
Associates, Inc., a management consulting firm
in New York. He is vice president and director
of outplacement counseling.

1945

S. ALLEN MCALLISTER, formerly a chemistry
professor at Sterling College in Sterling, Kans.,
is now teaching in the science department of
Boggs Academy near Augusta, Ga. The
Academy was founded in 1906 as a United
Presbyterian Mission, a boarding prep school-
college for young people of low income and
minority backgrounds.

1946

FRED S. HOLLEy is one of the editors of the Los
Angeles Times. He and his wife have two sons
and two daughters.

1948

Dr. MARVIN LEwis DAVES, retired June 1, 1977,
as chairman of the radiology department at the
University of Colorado Medical Center. He had
held the position for 16 years. Under his
chairmanship, the program grew from one
hospital with four faculty and nine residents to
a complex of four hospitals with 28 faculty and
34 residents. After receiving his medical degree
from Johns Hopkins in 1953, Daves served two
years there as assistant resident in radiology.
His later assignments included service with the
United States Public Health Service, the
National Institute of Health, and the University
of Arkansas Medical Center. In 1961, he joined
the staff at the University of Colorado Medical
Center and in 1962 was named professor and
chairman of the department of radiology. In
1974, he was an exchange professor at the
University of Ulm in Germany where his
mission was to establish a radiology residency
training program based on the American
format. Daves is author or co-author of 28
publications. This past April he was elected to
Alpha Omega Alpha, the National Honorary
Medical Society. He also currently serves as
consultant in radiology at the Fitzsimons
General Hospital.

1949

ALAN W. SPEARMAN Jr. is owner of Spearman &
Co., a real estate firm. in Huntsville, Ala.,
specializing in the sale and management of
commercial and investment real estate.

1950

ROBERT S. DILLON is a foreign service officer
and recently transferred from the embassy in

J. G. LaPlante, ’43

 

a

Lee ABS: DALE
E. A. Hiestand Jr.,

LEE
"53

Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, to the U.S. Embassy
in Ankara, Turkey, where he holds the ap-
pointment as minister.

THOMAS C. FROST JR., a trustee of Washington
and Lee and chairman of the Frost National
Bank of San Antonio, Texas, was elected
president of the Association of Reserve City
Bankers at the annual meeting recently held in
Phoenix, Ariz. Frost, the fourth generation of
his family to head the Frost National Bank,
began his career in 1950. He was elected vice
president in 1954, president in 1962, and
chairman in 1971. A past president of the Texas
Bankers Association, Frost also served as a first
chairman of the comptroller of the currency’s
regional advisory committee. He is a member
of the board of directors of the San Antonio
Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of Dallas
and is currently a director of the Texas
Association of Bank Holding Companies. Frost
has played a major role throughout his banking
career in strengthening relationships between
the United States and Mexico.

JosePH H. REESE JR., president of Reese and
Co., Inc., a general agent for Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co. in Abington, Pa., has
been appointed to the advisory board of Holy
Redeemer Hospital in Philadelphia. Reese is
also. chairman of the Montgomery
Management Corp. He isa past president of the
Philadelphia chapter of the American Society
of Charter Life Underwriters and a trustee of
Franklin and Marshall College.

Ep THomas is president of Terrace Lanes, Inc.,
which operates bowling centers, cocktail
lounges, and office complexes in Frederick,
Md., and Gettysburg, Pa. He has served seven
years in the Maryland State Senate. He is a
member of the Economic Affairs Committee,
the Joint Committee on Corrections, the
Protocol Committee, and the Executive
Nominations Committee.

1951

BuRTON LITWIN is vice president and general
counsel of Belwin-Mills Publishing Corp., an in-
ternational music publishing company. He is
also vice president and director of National
Teaching Aids, Inc., with offices in New York.
He and his wife Dorothy have three sons and
the family lives in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

JOHN O. MarsH Jr., has been named Alumnus
of the Year by the U.S. Jaycees.

1952

HuGH C. NEwTON is a writer of freelance press
releases on behalf of the Republic of China in
Washington, D.C. Newton handles a special

 

I. M. Sheffield HII, 53 L. P. Jacoby, 55

editorial information program and publishes a
daily news report from Taipei provided by the
Chinese Information Services. Newton recently
figured in a book entitled The Power Peddlers:
How Lobbyists Mold America’s Foreign Policy which
was published by Doubleday & Co., Inc.

1953

Dr. ALEX DeEvo_p! of Hinsdale, Ill., is engaged
in programs for the safety of nuclear reactors
and problems of possible proliferation of
nuclear weapons. He is involved with the
Chicago Alliance to End Repression.

Ep A. HIESTAND JR., a copywriter, has been
elected vice president of the New York
advertising firm of J. Walter Thompson Co.
Prior to joining the firm in 1975, Hiestand had
worked for several clients and advertising
agencies including RCA, Kenyon & Eckhardt,
Dancer, Fitzgerald, Sample, Richardson Merrill
International and Richard Rodd Communica-
tions. He and his wife Jean have three children
and the family lives in Westport, Conn.

CHARLES MONZELLA has been appointed deputy
broadcast editor of the Associated Press.
Monzella transferred to the broadcast
department in New York in 1965 after serving
as West Virginia broadcast editor for five years.
He was named day supervisor in 1970. He and
his wife Terry have three sons and the family
lives in Westfield, N.J.

During the past year JOSEPH W. SCHER, a free-
lance TV and filmwriter, wrote “The Miss
America Pageant,” “Macy’s Thanksgiving Day
Parade” and 14 episodes of the syndicated
sports show “Outdoor with Liberty Mutual.” He
lives in Scotch Plains, N.J.

I. M. SHEFFIELD III of Atlanta has been elected
vice president for public relations services ot
the Life Insurance Co. of Georgia. Sheffield has
been associated with Life of Georgia since 1957
and has served the company in a number of
field and home office management positions.
He earned the designation of Chartered Life
Underwriter in 1963. He is a past president of

the Atlanta Life Underwriters Association, the
Atlanta chapter of the American Society of
Chartered Life Underwriters, and the Fulton
County chapter of the American Cancer Society.
He is also a member of the Atlanta Estate Planning

Council.
1954

THE Rev. DANIEL D. DICKENSON, pastor of
Lafayette Presbyterian Church in Norfolk, Va.,
since 1970, has been named administrator of
Westminster-Canterbury Corp. of Hampton
Roads which is_ building a_ full-service

 

Ly

M. P. Iler, ’57

retirement facility on a 12-acre site on Shore
Drive at Virginia Beach. Dickenson received his
theological degree from Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond. He is a fellow of the
Academy of Parish Clergy and a member of its
board of directors. He has served in various
positions in the Norfolk Presbytery, concluding
a term as chairman of the Presbytery Council
last December. He and his wife, the former
Margaret Boyer, have three children.

1955

L. PHILLIP JAcoBy has been elected vice
president of manufacturing for Cold Headed
Products for the Milford Rivet & Machine Co.
of Milford, Conn., a wholly-owned subsidiary
of Raybestos-Manhattan, Inc. Jacoby, who has
been with Milford Rivet for 20 years, was most
recently director of manufacturing for Cold
Headed Products. Before that, he had been for
over two years division manager concurrently
of two Milford divisions producing rivets and
cold-headed parts. After joining the com-
pany’s management training program, he was
later superintendent in two divisions before be-
coming Connecticut division manager in 1965.
He and his wife Phyllis have two sons and live in
Easton.

1956

Car- BaILey has been appointed senior market
research analyst at Huntington Alloys, Inc., in
Huntington, W. Va. Bailey, who holds the
master’s degree in finance from Marshall Uni-
versity, joined the company in 1970 as a market
research coordinator.

WILLIAM M. GriGG, who lives in Chevy Chase, is
administrative assistant to Congressman
Newton I. Steers Jr., of Maryland.

PETER J. JACOBS is vice president of Metric
Metals International, worldwide merchants
and dealers in nonferrous metals. His office is
in the World Trade Center in New York City.
He and his wife Marian have three daughters.

1957

Morton P. ILER has been named administra-
tive vice president and controller of Ashland
Exploration, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Ashland Oil Co. with extensive domestic and in-
ternational oil and gas operations. Iler joined
Ashland Exploration Inc. in 1973 as controller.
He resides in Houston.

1958

W. ROWLAND DENMAN, vice president of The
Denman Co., Oklahoma City, has been elected
to the position of president-elect of the Ceil-
ings & Interior Systems Contractors Associa-

 

,
P. H. Weeks Jr., 58

     

W. A. Towler IIT, 58

tion. Denman has served the association in
many Capacities, most recently as chairman of
the convention held at the Southampton Prin-
cess in Bermuda. He has also served on the
association’s board of directors and as treasurer
and vice president of the Southern Region. In
1969 Denman was honored as Young Man of
Oklahoma City and in 1970 as Young Man of
Oklahoma. He and his wife Mary have two
daughters.

WILLIAM A. TOWLER III, executive vice
president of Rattikin Title Co., Fort Worth,
Texas, was named Outstanding Title Man of
the Year by the Texas Land Title Association at
its annual convention in San Antonio on May 7.
The Title Man of the Year award is the highest
honor given by the Texas Land Title Associa-
tion to one of its members. Towler has just com-
pleted his term as a director of the Texas Land
Title Association. He is chairman of the School
Development Committee, which developed
and ran the first Land Title School in the
United States. He was chairman of the
education committee which developed a series
of educational seminars recognized as
outstanding by the American Land Title
Association. In his community, Towler is on the
board of managers of the Southwest YMCA, a
member of the Chamber of Commerce, Fort
Worth Board of Realtors, Mortgage Bankers
Association, Homebuilders Association, and
the Petroleum Club. He is a past president of
the Fort Worth Executives Association and a
past director of the American Heart
Association. He and his wife Martha have four
children.

PHILIP H. WEEKS JR., CLU, has been appointed
manager of the Boston brokerage office of
Connecticut General Life Insurance Co. Weeks
began his career with the company in its
Philadelphia office where he was advanced to
assistant manager in 1967. Since 1970 he has
been manager of the Baltimore office. He and
his wife Ann have two daughters.

1959
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BERTRAND R. HUDNALL
II a son, Bertrand Ryland (Ry) III, on May 3,
1977. The family lives in Winston-Salem, N.C.,
where Hudnall is headmaster at Salem
Academy.

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. is associate professor
of law at the University of Baltimore School of
Law. He was recently chosen the Outstanding
Faculty Member for the current academic year.
Shepherd is also engaged in the preparation of
a book Ethical Problems in Family Law Practice. He
Just completed a benchbook for the juvenile
court judges of Maryland.

23

 

F. M. Young III, ’63

1960

Dr. HENRY H. MESSER is practicing obstetrics
and gynecology in Tallahassee, Fla. He is also
actively engaged in racing sailboats.

J. WALTER WEINGART, an associate professor of
history at Whitman College in Walla Walla,
Wash., received a National Endowment for the
Humanities grant for summer study at
Princeton University. The two-month seminar
is titled The Historical and Philosophical
Foundations of America. Weingart will be
studying with Paul Sigmund in the department
of politics.

Dr. MERVYN SILVERMAN, a former director of
community health in Wichita, Kans., for five
years, has been named head of the health
department in San Francisco, Calif. Silverman
received his medical degree from Tulane Uni-
versity and a master’s degree in public health
from Harvard. After interning at Los Angeles
County Hospital, he spent a year in the slums of
Cali, Columbia, studying diptheria. Silverman
was a Peace Corps doctor in Bangkok from
1965-67. He spent another year supervising,
from Washington, D.C., Peace Corps
physicians in East Asia. He and his wife
Deborah have three daughters.

1961

Dr. FIRTH S. SPIEGEL is in private practice as a
surgeon in Miami, Fla. He and his wife have
three sons.

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. (See 1959.)

1962

STEVE GALEF is a member of the Westchester
County Board of Legislators and chairman of
the New York City Bar Association’s Immigra-
tion and Nationalization Law Committee.

FRANK A. D’LAuRO JR. is president of D’Lauro &
Co., a design, build, and development firm in
Philadelphia, Pa. He is also chairman of the
housing authority in Montgomery County and
vice president of the Big Brothers Association
of Philadelphia.

RICHARD L. KELLY, senior banking officer and
manager of Equitable Trust Bank’s office in
Frederick, Md., has been named chairman of
the education committee of the Frederick
County Chamber of Commerce. Kelly served
from 1962 to 1964 in the U.S. Army Artillery
Communications retiring from the reserves in
1968 with the rank of captain. Kelly is vice
president of the Frederick County Merchants
Association and a member of Rosehill Manor’s

24

Drinking toasts at the reception and
buffet for the Class of 1977 in an-
ticipation of the first reunion of their
class in five years are seniors Jeff
Peck, R. Douglas Hunter, and

William E. Craver.

Children’s

Advisory Committee to the

Museum.
1963

Dr. HAMLET T. NEWSOM is in the practice of
plastic surgery in Dallas, Texas. He is also assis-
tant clinical professor at Southwestern Medical
School.

JAMES L. SURFACE is vice president and trust
officer of Louisville Trust Bank, Inc., of Louis-
ville, Ky. He was formerly trust officer at the
Kanawha Valley Bank, N.A., in Charleston,
W.Va. He and his wife Judy have two children.

FRANK M. Younc III, a resident of Birming-
ham, Ala., has been elected a member of the
board of directors of Southern Airways, Inc., by
the stockholders. Young is a partner in the law
firm of Johnson North Haskell & Slaughter.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERICK J. KRALL, a
daughter, Katherine Lewis, on Aug. 1, 1976.
The young lady joins an older sister. The family
lives in Chatham, N. J., where Krall is employed
by Warner-Lambert Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JoHn D. McCoy, a
daughter, Amanda Louise, on April 22, 1977.
The young lady joins an older brother. The
family resides in Alexandria, Va.

ROBERT A. BARGANZis associate professor in the
School of Education at the University of Wis-
consin in Eau Claire. He is also a supervisor in
the Human Development Center. Barganz has
content authority and is coordinator for the
state’s TV course “Strategies in Reading: Grades

5-12.”

SYDNEY J. BUTLER of Memphis has been
appointed deputy assistant secretary of agricul-
ture in the Carter administration. His
appointment was announced April 27 although
he had been in his post several weeks before
that. As deputy to Assistant Secretary of
Agriculture Carol Tucker Foreman, he helps
administer the food stamp and child nutrition
programs and also meat and poultry inspection,
food grading and standardization programs.
Before joining his brother, Landon, as a worker
in the Carter campaign in March, 1976, he wasa
partner in a Memphis law firm.

D. CULVER SMITH III is in private practice with
the firm of Adams, Sullivan, Coogler, Watson &
Smith in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was the 1976
president of the Young Lawyers Section, Palm
Beach County Bar Association and is currently
a member of the board of directors of that
association. Smith is also president of the

 

Zoological Society of the Palm Beaches, Inc.

1965

WILLIAM P. CorrFIn is president and owner of
East Penn Abstract Co. With the recent opening
of new offices in Allentown and Bethlehem, he
now operates five offices in Pennsylvania

specializing in real estate.

JAQUELIN H. DEJARNETTE has been elected to
the board of directors of Southern Title
Insurance Corp., a Charlottesville-based invest-
ment company. DeJarnette is senior vice
president of Wheat First Securities, Inc., and
will serve on the investment committee of
Southern Title.

JAMES L. SuRFACE (See 1963.)

1966
BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JOSEPH G. MILLER, a son,
William Campbell, on Feb. 17, 1977. Miller is
presently senior partner in William F. Miller
and Associates, manufacturer’s agents. He is
also engaged in raising horses and cattle in
Franklin, Tenn.

C. THOMAS BuRTON JR. is a partner of the
Roanoke law firm, Hunter, Fox & Trabue. He
and his wife, the former Elizabeth Rulon-
Miller, have one daughter.

1967
MARRIAGE: JAMIE A. STALNAKER and Suzy
Capin Adams of Norfolk, Va., on April 9, 1977.
The couple lives in Norfolk where Stalnaker is a
practicing attorney.

GALEN E. ANDERSEN, president of The Nokota
Co., in Bismanck, N. D., recently attended the
Business Executives Andean Conference
sponsored by the Overseas Private Corp. He
visited Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, and Bolivia.

After clerking two years at the U.S. Tax Court,
CHARLES M. BRUCE practiced with the
Washington, D. C., law firm of Hamel, Park,
McCabe & Saunders. Recently he joined the
staff of the Senate Finance Committee. He ex-
pects to teach at Georgetown University School
of Law at night.

Tuomas J. HarpIn II, formerly a securities
analyst with the North Carolina National Bank
in Charlotte, has just been promoted to the
position of assistant vice president. Hardin
earned a master’s degree in finance from
Emory University and joined NCNB in 1972.

EDWARD B. ROBERTSON JR., currently working

At the reception and buffet for the
Class of 1977, President Huntley
talks with William P. Wallace Jr.

(left) and Everett Martin qe

for Ford Motor Co. of Europe in Cologne,
Germany, has been selected for additional
training in order to become an electronic data
processing audit specialist.

ROBERT B. ScoTrT JR. received the Ph.D. degree
in philosophy from the University of Pennsyl-
vania in December 1976. He is now teaching
philosophy at the University of Delaware in the
Freshman Honors Program. Scott and his wife
and two children live in Dover, Del.

D. CULVER SMITH (See 1964.)

1968

MARRIAGE: RoBERT NOEL CLINARD and Mar-
garet Hawthorne Higgins on May 21, 1977, in
Lexington, Va. The couple will live in New
York City where Clinard is associated with the
law firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam and
Roberts. Margaret, a Hollins graduate, will con-
tinue her studies at Columbia University.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL G. MORGAN, a
daughter, Sarah Kline, on April 13, 1977.
Morgan, a city representative in Stamford,
served as chairman of the Carter/Mondale cam-
paign in Connecticut’s Fourth Congressional
District.

BIRTH: Carr. and Mrs. FREDERICK M.
STUHRKE JR., ason, David Michael, on March 7,
1977. The young man joins an older sister,
Kathryn. The Stuhrkes are stationed in
Germany with the U. S. Army.

M. Ray BRADFORD JR. is practicing law with the
firm of Eaton, Peabody, Bradford & Veague in
Bangor, Maine, primarily. He works with real
estate and bank matters. He and his wife, the
former Marlo Garrett, have two children.

Dr. BENJAMIN H. JOHNSON III is curently a
senior resident in surgery at the Mayo Gradu-
ate School of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester,
Minn. He and his wife have a son, Benjamin
Hardy IV, who was born July 14, 1976.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLark M. Goopwin, a
son, Warren Clark, on April 13, 1977. The
family lives in Atlanta, Ga.

JAMES M. CHANCE is employed by Ichthyologi-
cal Associates as a programmer computing data
collected from the Susquehanna River in
Berwick, Pa.

Davip L. DOWLER is assistant director of invest-
ments for Mutual Life Insurance Co. of New
York. He received an M.B.A. from the Univer-
sity of Texas in 1973.

law graduate.

Dan T. DUNN Jr. is a member of the business
school faculty of Northeastern University,
Boston, Mass. For the academic year 1977-78
Dunn will be teaching in an M.B.A. program in
Athens, Greece.

NEIL S. KESSLER has joined the law firm of
Cohen, Abeloff & Staples of Richmond, Va. He
and his wife are the parents of a one-year old
daughter, Stephanie Beth.

1970

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN M. KEFAUVER JR., a
son, John Moody ITI, on May 17, 1977.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. L. S. (SANDY) ROwE,
their second son, Benjamin Cole, on Jan. 1,
1977. The family lives in Richmond, Va., where
Rowe is a practicing attorney.

ROBERT L. ENTZMINGER, who holds the Ph.D.
degree from Rice University, is currently an
assistant professor of English at Virginia Tech
in Blacksburg, Va. His wife is also a member of
the faculty, teaching in the communications de-
partment.

Dr. GREGORY L. HOLMES, after two years as a
pediatric resident at Yale New Haven Hospital,
is now resident in pediatric neurology at the
University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottes-

ville. 1 97 1

MARRIAGE: Har TLey E. RousH and Rebecca
Riffe, on March 5, 1977. The couple resides in
Fairmont, W. Va., where Roush is currently a
vice president with J. M. Hartley & Son Co., Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JACKSON H. Ross, a son,
F. Tyler, on April 11, 1977. After
receiving an M.B.A. from William and Mary in
May, 1976, Ross is employed by the Rappahan-
nock General Hospital in Kilmarnock, Va., as
business manager.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL P. TruTA, a
son, Matthew Townsend, on April 13, 1977.
The family lives in Cleveland Heights, Ohio,
where Truta is a regional sales coordinator for
White Trucks.

LEE GRAHAM ls an investment broker with
Branch, Cabell & Co. in Richmond, Va. He and
his wife have a daughter, Ashley Park.

Dr. GAINES W. HAMMOND JR. was named the
Outstanding Intern of the Year 1976-77 at
Methodist Graduate Medical Center in In-
dianapolis, Ind. He began a four-year urology
residency at Indiana University in July.

‘THOMAS B. HuDSON JR. is working in the Wash-

 

ington, D.C., office of the law firm of Baker &
Botts. He and his wife are restoring an old
rowhouse on Capitol Hill.

Harry D. LETOuRNEAU Jr., who is national ac-
counts officer with North Carolina National
Bank, has been promoted to assistant vice
president. He joined NCNB in 1973 as a credit
analyst and has also served as director of credit
administration in the commercial loan division.
LeTourneau and his wife reside in Charlotte.
They have a two-year old daughter.

AtvA M. LuMPKIN III is currently teaching
mathematics at the University of South Caro-
lina Military Regional Campus Afloat in the
Mediterranean.

GORDON S. MACRaw is stationed at Ft.
Huachuca, Ariz., where he became a first
lieutenant in May, 1976. He has recently been
assigned the post of advisor on Russian affairs
and is currently receiving additional training at
Ft. Hood, Texas.

JOHN M. McCarDELL JR., assistant professor of
history at Middlebury College, has won the
nationally prestigious Allan Nevins Prize for
the historical dissertation of the year. The
Nevins Prize is awarded annually by the Society
of American Historians. McCardell won the
award for his dissertation, “The Idea of a
Southern Nation: Southern Nationalists and
Southern Nationalism, 1830-1860” He
submitted this dissertation at Harvard
University last year. Before joining Middlebury
College McCardell did graduate work at Johns
Hopkins and earned his doctoral degree at
Harvard. He has held fellowships at both of
these institutions, serving as a teaching fellow
and tutor at Harvard before joining the
Middlebury faculty in 1976.

An exhibit of furniture designed and construct-
ed by Curis B. Murray opened at the McGuffy
Art Center in Charlottesville, Va., in early June.
Among the pieces displayed was a roll-top desk,
several tables and chairs, including a rocking
chair, and a wine rack. Murray and his wife
Phine have bought an old house in Charlottes-
ville and are fixing it up.

Dr. THOMAS E. REYNOLDS, a December, 1976,
graduate of the University of Virginia School of
Medicine, began a family practice residency at
Riverside Hospital in Newport News in June.

FRANK ROSE Is a freelance writer living in New
York. His work has appeared in New Times,
Rolling Stone and The Village Voice.

Hattuis C. TAGGART and his wife are in Switzer-
land doing research work in conjunction with

25

 

Transcendental

advanced
Meditation.

practice in

1972

MARRIAGE: JoHn H. Keck and Cecilia
Canseco on April 16, 1977, in Laredo, Texas.
W&L was well represented by nine alumni in
attendance. Groomsmen were Brian S. Grieg,
°72, Tom Barton, ’72, Rett Tucker, ’72, and Don
Weir, ’72. Among the guests were Doug Madi-
son, ’72, Leland Clemons, ’72, Larry Brown,
‘72, Bruce Madison, ’72 and Dan Higgins, ’69.
The couple will live in Laredo where Keck is
vice president and director of the Union
National Bank. He is also a director of the
Stockmens National Bank in Cotulla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PETER A. BIEHN, a
daughter, Carrie Asher, on Aug. 3, 1976. She
joins an older brother. The family resides in
Staunton, Va., where Biehn is associated with
W. J. Perry Corp.

EDWARD W. Lane III completed his Navy
service in April with the rank of lieutenant (jg.).
He had three and a half years of sea duty, first
aboard a destroyer and then aboard the carrier
U.S.S. America. Lane will enter law school this
fall.

1973
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THEODORE H. RITTER, a
son, Matthew Warren, on Dec. 17, 1976. The
family lives in Bridgeton, N.J., where Ritter
practices law.

In November, 1976, RICHARD V. ANDERSON was
released from active duty with the U.S. Army
Judge Advocate General’s Corps at Ft. Lee, Va.,
and took a position as an attorney advisor with
the Office of General Counsel, U.S. Environ-
mental Protection Agency. After an orientation
period he is now assigned at the Environmental
Research Center in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Jor Hour graduated first in his class from the
University of Richmond T.C. Williams School
of Law. Starting in the fall, he will clerk for
Federal District Judge Warren Young in the
Virgin Islands.

WittiAmM H. McILHAny II expects to have two
more books published in late 1977. The books
are No Civil War at All: Eighty Years of Conspiracy
to Destroy the United States, published by Western
Islands and America’s Leftist Foundations: The
Record of Tax-Exempt Political Activism, published
by Arlington House.

ALEX E. MOSER graduated in May from the
University of North Carolina School of

26

Tucker. All are members of the

Class of ’69.

Dentistry. After completing the state license
exam he expects to practice with five other
dentists in Winston-Salem.

Davip A. Powers III is engaged in the practice
of law in Richmond, Va. He served as Youth
Coordinator for Harry F. Byrd Jr. in his
successful campaign for the Senate in the fall of
1976.

Dr. R. LAWRENCE REED II, who received his
M.D. degree from the University of Virginia in
May, 1976, is currently doing a surgery residency
at William Beaumont Army Hospital in El Paso,
Texas.

Dr. ROBERT A. SILVERMAN graduated from the
University of Virginia School of Medicine in
May, 1977, and will pursue a residency in
pediatrics at the Buffalo Children’s Hospital in
Buffalo, N.Y.

ROBERT J. TAYLOR IV has recently formed the
General Repair and Maintanance Corp. in
Atlanta, Ga., a firm specializing in small
residential repairs.

MARSHALL P. WASHBURN is a_ production
department superintendent for Milliken
Textiles. He and his wife, the former Becky
Marsh of Pittsburgh, live in Spartanburg, S.C.

Jamie A. STALNAKER (See 1967.)

1974

Capt. C. Davip JOHNSTON has_ recently
returned from overseas duty and is now
stationed at the Marine Corps Logistics Support
Base, Atlantic, in Albany, Ga. Johnston’s
primary duty is trial counsel in the Staff Judge
Advocate’s office.

BRADFORD K. Moore was recently awarded a
master’s degree from the American Graduate
School of International Management, Glen-
dale, Ariz.

1975

After a six-month training program, ROBERT K.
BaiLey III has become branch manager for
Atlantic Permanent Savings and Loan at the
Indian River office in Norfolk, Va. Bailey was
married to Susan Heflin in May 1976.

ELLIs C. COLEMAN Is pursuing a master’s degree
in anthropology at the University of Georgia.

‘T. Barry Davis has recently been promoted
associate publisher of advertising at
Washington Dossier Magazine.

MakkK X. Diverio has just completed a 22-
month management training program with

W&L men at the wedding of John
H. Keck, ’72, in Laredo are (left to
right) Leland Clemons, Doug Madi-
son, Bruce Madison, Brian S. Greig,
Keck, Tom Barton, Larry Brown,
Dan Higgins, Don Werr, and Rett

Class of ’72 except Higgins, who 1s

First National Bank of New Jersey and has been
assigned to the investment department as a
securities trader. He is also pursuing an M.B.A.
degree in finance at night at Fairleigh
Dickinson University.

PETER G. D. ERTMAN has been appointed to the
U.S. Bureau of Mines, Minerals and Materials
Supply/Demand Analysis, Eastern Field
Operations Center, Office of the Chief,
Pittsburgh, Pa. He was formerly with the U. S.
Geological Survey, Conservation Division, with
offices in Washington, D.C. He and his wife, the
former Maiva B. McLaughlin of Boston, Mass.,
live in Pittsburgh. -

Davib ALAN EsTEs, who graduated with an
M.B.A. degree from the University of Michigan
in April, 1977, begins work as a regulatory
analyst with the El Paso Natural Gas Co. in July.

DaRRELL W. LAPRADE is pursuing a master’s
degree in governmentat the College of William
and Mary.

MARK RIEGEL has been promoted to assistant
trust officer in the First National Exchange
Bank in Virginia. He is involved with estate
administration at the bank’s headquarters in
downtown Roanoke.

ANDREW T. SMITH Is engaged in the practice of
law in Nashville, Tenn., with the firm of
Constangy, Brooks & Smith.

B. HARRISON TURNBULL has been promoted to
commercial loan officer by the North Carolina
National Bank in Charlotte. Turnbull joined
NCNB in Charlotte in 1975 as a credit analyst.

STEVE VANAMBURGH has joined J. H.
VanAmburgh Explosives, Inc., a distributor for
Atlas Powder Co. in Texas serving mining,
quarrying and construction-related businesses.
He lives in Dallas.

JAMES L.. WILSON is an associate with the Wash-
ington, D. C., law firm of Webster and Cham-
berlain.

ROBERT NOEL CLINARD (See 1968.)

1976

Davib K. EUBANK is a management trainee with
the Citizens Bank & Trust Co. of Maryland in
Riverdale.

LAWRENCE [T. WASHINGTON III was a
participant in the 26 mile, 385 yard Boston
Marathon in early spring. He placed 76th in a
field of 3,100 entries with a time of two hours,
31 minutes.

In memoriam

1914

WARREN CRENSHAW BROWN S8nr., a former life
insurance executive and automobile dealer in
E] Paso, Texas, died March 25, 1977. He was a
member of the St. Clements Episcopal Church
and served on the Vestry. Brown was active in
both church and civic affairs and was a veteran
of World War I. He was a member of the
Masonic Lodge, the York Rite Bodies, the
Scottish Rite Bodies and the Shrine.

BENJAMIN DODGE SMITH, prominent attorney
and senior partner of the law firm of Smith &
Blackburn of Somerset, Ky., died Jan. 16, 1977.
Smith began law practice first in Oklahoma City
but returned to his native state and city of
Somerset in 1918 and practiced law there until
his death. He is a charter member and
organizer of the Company G unit of the
National Guard and was a member of the First
Christian Church which he served as deacon,
elder and trustee. He was a_ former
superintendent of the church’s Sunday School.
A charter member and twice president of the
Somerset Kiwanis Club, Smith was also a
charter member of the Boy Scout Troop 1
which was awarded its charter by President
Calvin Coolidge in 1926. A former president of
the Pulaski County Bar Association, Smith
belonged to the Kentucky Bar Association and
had been admitted to practice in all federal
courts and the Supreme Court of the United
States. He was inducted as a fellow in the
American College of Trial Lawyers in 1958.
Smith was also a director of the American
Federal Savings and Loan Association, a trustee
of the Somerset City Hospital, and chairman of
the Lake Cumberland area chapter of the
American National Red Cross.

1915

Dr. RICHARD WILLIAMSON FOWLKES, former
chairman of the dermatology section of the
Southern Medical Association, died May 1,
1977, in Richmond, Va. Fowlkes practiced
dermatology in Richmond for over half a
century. He served as an associate professor at
the Medical College of Virginia. Fowlkes was a
member of the American Medical Association,
American Dermatology Association, the Society
of Investigative Dermatology, the Southern
Medical Association, the Medical Society of Vir-
ginia, and the Richmond Academy of Medi-
cine.

1916

HOWARD LINDSAY TURPIN, a cotton broker with
A. C. T. Beasley Co. of Memphis, Tenn., died
March 15, 1977. Turpin began as an employee
with W. M. Drake and Co., cotton brokers in
Memphis in 1914. For a time he ran his own
cotton business in Clarksdale, Miss.

1919

James E. Moore, president of Minter Homes
Corp. of Huntington, W. Va., a lumber and
building supplier and manufacturer of custom
mill work, died April 20, 1977. At the time of his
death Moore was with a group of building
supply dealers in the Bahamas. While at W&L
he was an outstanding athlete and was an avid
participant in Fancy Dress. Moore was a veteran
of World War I. He had received the
Distinguished Service Cross, the Silver Star
Medal, the Purple Heart with Oak Leaf Cluster,
and the West Virginia Distinguished Service
Medal. Moore was a deacon of the Presbyterian
Church, a director of the Huntington
Manufacturers Club and a past director of the
West Virginia Builders Supply Association.

1920

HERBERT SAVAGE POWELL, retired owner and
manager of Mears and Powell, a firm engaged
in the oyster business in Wachapreague, Va.,
died April 15, 1977. Powell had been a high
school principal in Accomack for over 20 years
before going into the oyster business.

1921

WitttaM HENRY CONNELLY, a prominent
attorney in Lawrenceville, Va., died July 19,
1976. Connelly, who was totally blinded in a
hunting accident while a student at the College
of William and Mary, later attended Randolph-
Macon College and graduated from
Washington and Lee University’s School of Law
in 1921. He was a former referee in bankruptcy
for the United States District Court, Eastern
District of Virginia. During World War II he
served as government appeals agent for the
local board. In 1947 he was named by Governor
‘Tuck to the Virginia Commission for the Blind.

Davip DEAN JOHNSON, for many years a
prominent businessman in Pittsburgh, Pa., died
April 24, 1977. Johnson was a retired director
and secretary of Benedum-Trees Oil Co. and
had been a director of Hiawatha Oil and Gas
Co., Penn-Ohio Gas Co., and the Pittsburgh
National Bank. He was a trustee of Alderson-
Broaddus College, Morris Harvey College, and
the Education Foundation, Inc., of Charleston,
W. Va. He was also a director of Broaddus
Hospital in Philippi, W. Va. A veteran of both
world wars, he belonged to the American Bar
Association, the American Law Institute, the
West Virginia Bar Association and the West
Virginia State Bar. He was a former member of
the Alumni Board of Directors.

1923

The Rev. BERNIE HICKERSON HAMPTON, a
retired minister of the Keith Memorial
Methodist Church in Athens, Tenn., died Aug.

|, 1976. He retired to Chattanooga after having
served many pastorates in Tennessee and Vir-
ginia. Hampton was known as the hero of the
post-election violence in Athens in August,
1946, which involved some World War II
veterans who worked to overthrow an
entrenched political machine. Hampton was
credited with preserving the peace.

1925

JOHN PETER AYLMER, formerly in the U.S.
Government Field Service, died in San
Antonio, Texas, April 30, 1977.

1926

THOMAS PRESTON FOLEY, a retired vice presi-
dent of United Virginia Bank of Richmond
died April 25, 1977. Foley was formerly
associated with. Kentucky Realty Co. in Louis-
Ville and was with the Commercial Credit Co. of
New York City for 17 years before coming to
Richmond. He joined State Planters Bank and
Trust Co., a forerunner of United Virginia
Bank, in 1945 as manager of the consumer
credit department. He retired as a_ vice
president in 1970. Foley had also been
president of the Virginia-Carolina Investment
Corp.

1928

PHiLip D. Sprouse, the U. S. Ambassador to
Cambodia from 1962 to 1964, died April 28,
1977, in San Francisco. Sprouse was born in
(sreenbriar, Tenn., where, for a time, he was in
the lumber and tobacco business. He was an in-
structor at Gulf Coast Military Academy in
Gulfport, Miss., and did graduate study at
Peabody College, L’Institut de Tourine in
France, and Princeton University. A career
diplomat, Sprouse served during the 1940’s as
U.S. Consul General in Kunming, China, and
also was on the staff of Gen. George C. Marshall,
who was President Truman’s special repre-
sentative to China. He was later chief of the
State Department’s Division of Chinese Affairs
in Washington and held posts in Paris and
Brussels before being sent to Cambodia. He
received an honorary degree from Washington
and Lee in 1963. After retiring in 1964 Sprouse
lived in Orinda, Calif.

1936

LANE R. BairRD, a Tulsa, Okla., automotive
firms executive, died April 23, 1977. He was
vice president of Parrish & Clark Motor Co. and
the Four States Motor Parts, Inc. Baird began
working in Tulsa in 1937 and was associated
with Shell Oil Co. for 13 years before he joined
the automotive business. He served in the Air

27

Transport Command during World War II,
holding the rank of captain. Baird was a
member of the Metropolitan Tulsa Chamber of
Commerce, the Tulsa County Historical
Society, Gilcrease Museum, and the Philbrook
Art Center.

1939

WILLIAM WARNER BROWN, midwest regional
manager for Alton Box Board Co., died May
24, 1977 in St. Louis. Brown became associated
with Alton Box Board in 1959 when it
purchased a container plant in Milwaukee,
Wis., from Owens-Illinois Co. He remained as
manager of the Milwaukee plant until 1972,
when he was named the company’s regional
manager with responsibility for plants in
Chicago; Galesburg, IIl.; Kansas City; Spring-
field, Mo.; and Milwaukee. Brown was a naval
officer in World War II. He attended Harvard
University Graduate School of Business
Administration. At the time of his death he was
a resident of Creve Coeur, Mo.

1948

CLARENCE WARNER ALLISON JR., judge of the
25th District Juvenile and Domestic Relations
Court, died April 27, 1977 in Covington, Va.
During his career Allison served as Alleghany
County Commonwealth’s Attorney, mayor of
Covington, Covington City Councilman and
police court justice. He was a member of the
Virginia State Bar.

1949

Dr. WILLIAM WHITE TRIGG Jr. of Reidsville,
N.C., died April 20, 1977, in Greensboro. Trigg
had practiced medicine in Reidsville for 24
years and was past president and served on the
board. of the Rockingham Medical Society. He
also served on the Reidsville School Board for
two terms. Trigg had served on the Chamber of
Commerce and the board of directors of the
United Fund and the Annie Penn Memorial
Hospital. During World War II he served in the
18th Infantry in Europe and was twice awarded
the Purple Heart and the Bronze Star.

1951
WILLIAM EDWARD MCLAUGHLIN, a practicing
attorney in Louisa, Va., died Dec. 20, 1976. He
was a member of the West Virginia Bar and the
Virginia Bar. During World War II he served
with the Naval Air Corps.

1976

EDWARD CurRTIS COOGLE JR. of Oglethorpe,
Ga., died March 11, 1977 after a long illness
with leukemia.

28

Bsie we

 
   
 

we Ae A,
ee Gf Ae
s; "7 f , ij. ¢
fi 7:

a.f/

cal

  

-
=

4
'

     
  
  

Help us round up
these lost alumni

The Alumni Office does not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.
Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,

send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

David S. Bone, ’14L
Henry L. Braddock, ’60
Joe C. Chatman Jr., ’57

J. Donald Childress, ’70
David S. Glasgow, ’75
Alan G. Hoskins, ’40

Kurt M. Krumperman, ’73
Leland L. McGraw, ’33
Michael W. McLane, ’75
Bryan E. McNeill, ’74
Henry A. Oder Jr., 47, ’56L
Thomas S. Pace Jr. ’64
James S. Reiley, ’69

David L. Reinke, ’72
Oliver H. Reynolds, ’26
David E. Rice, ’55

Everett E. Rice Jr., 60
Jeffrey B. Rice, ’66L
Robert A. Rice, ’41

Alan E. Ricker, ’21

Norman S. Ricker, ’20
Robert E. Rickles, ’50
James F. Riley Jr., ’24
John P. Riley, 18

Rosario D. Riotto, ’52
Charles H. Ripple, ’08
Richard E. Rivera, 68
Joseph C. Rivers, 16
James E. Roane, ’61
Edmund C. Robbins, ’51
Marion H. Roberts, ’27
James J. Robertson, ’74L
William F. Robertson III, ’60
William J. Robertson Jr., ’44
Charles L. Robinson, ’42
Hayes G. Robinson, ’49
Roland W..Rochette, ’25
Richard W. Rodgers, 49
Charles C. Rogers Jr., ’40
Frank A. Rogers III, 68
James H. Rogers, ’26
John C. Rogers, ’73

Paul C. Rogers, 713
Richard E. Rogers, ’65
Robert G. Rogers, ’70
Zack B. Rogers Jr., ’27
Frank Rolston, ’19

John M. Roper, ’63
Edward E. Rosborough, ’25
Joseph L. Rosenbloom ITI, ’66
William H. Ross, ’43
William W. Roush, ’56
James W. Rowe Jr., ’11
Galen B. Royer, ’40
Ronald D. Rubin, ’60
Albert J. Rudes, ’32

Carl F. Rumpp Jr., 53

Leonard L. Rupert, ’30
Robert P. Rushmore, ’48
David D. Russell, ’44
Francis D. Russell, ’22
Thomas J. Russell, ’27L
Hugo Rutherford Jr., ’66
Edmund A. Samara, ’42
James H. Sammons Jr., ’75
Mills B. Sanders, ’31
Edwardo A. Santaella, 50
Eugenio M. Santaella, 47
Harry M. Satterfield, ’13
Robert G. Saxon Jr., ’32
William B. Sayers, ’30
Edward R. Scales, ’34
Herbert E. Scherer, 38
Albert E. Schlesinger, 59
Andrew H. Schneider, ’71
Leslie S. Schobe Jr., ’70
Douglas R. Schoenfeld Jr., ’65
John P. Schubert, ’64
Ernst Schuegraf, ’69
Martin B. Schultz, ’46
Benjamin A. Schwartz, ’69
Jeffrey A. Schwartz, ’72
Joe J. Sconce, ’51
Clarence C. Scott, ’31

Paul Scoville Jr., 63

John H. Scudder, ’40
David S. Seaton, ’74

Jack B. Shaffer, ’28
Daniel J. Shapiro, ’70
Alfred L. Shapleigh III, 66
Joseph Sharove, ’31

Craton S. Sheffield, ’57
George T. Sheftall, 54
Joseph C. Shepard, ’42
Gene K. Shepherd, ’53
John C. Sherrard, ’43
Townsend C. Shields, 756
John W. Shiles, ’14
Richard A. Shimko, ’44
Gerald B. Shively, ’66
Raymond C. Shook Jr., ’38
Robert C. Shufeldt, ’72
Rush D. Shuman, ’49
Cleon M. Shutt, ’27
Walter W. Sikes, 30

Dan E. Silberberg, ’72
Frank B. Simmons, ’36
Walter B. Simmons II, ’71
Marion T. Simon, ’42
Manning A. Simons, ’27
Avington D. Simpson Jr., ’29
Stephen E. Skidmore, ’33
John H. Slagle, ’28
Johnson S. Slaughter, ’51

Augustus B. Slough, ’37
Philip L. Small Jr., ’43
Edwin D. Smathers, ’18
Brooks F. Smith, ’29
Charles M. Smith, ’70
Clyde Smith, ’14L
George H. Smith Jr., ’23
Gurdon H. Smith Jr., ’48
Harry L. Smith, ’74
Harvey N. Smith, ’24
Henry F. Smith, ’56
Luther B. Smith, ’49
Philip J. Smith, ’35
Robert E. Smith III, 53
Roderick G. Smith, ’54
Samuel W. Smith, ’25
Sherwood F. Smith, ’48
Thomas C. Smith, ’33
Thomas R. Smith, 757
Wendell M. Smith, ’71
William A. Smith, ’62
William G. Smith, ’74
William Y. Smith, ’47
Bryon L. Snipes, ’26
James A. Snyder, ’51
Erling D. Speer, ’62
Harry S. Spiers, ’27
James W. Spiers, ’25
Carleton W. Sprague, ’37L
John F. Stafford, ’25
Jesse T. Stallings, ’26
Edward W. Stapleton, ’32
Clarence B. Starr, ’67
Ford Stephens, ’50

J. Paul Stephens, ’26
Leroy J. Stephens, ’44
Ronald N. Stetler, ’71
Sydney R. Stevens, ’33
Donald J. Stewart, 67
Edward L. Stewart, 39
Kirk Stewart, 68

Robert B. Stickel, ’53
Julius L. Stille Jr., °38
Charles W. Stilwell, ’31
Thomas W. Stobbs III, 750
Arthur L. Stoll, °34 |
James R. Stone Jr., °58
Kenneth M. Stone, ’32
Frank N. Stradling, ’36
John D. Streetman, ’63, ’66L
Raymond Stults Jr., ’56
John R. Sturm, ’23
Joseph S. Sullivan, ’49
Maurice F. Sullivan, ’02
Roger W. Sutherland, ’31
George H. Sutherlin, ’61
Oliver G. Swan Jr., 57

 

 

No library is complete without...

The 1975 Alumni Directory

The Indispensable Reference Book
For Every Washington and Lee Alumnus

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni Direc-
tory, 1749-1975, is now available at only $5.00 a copy,
including postage. The unique feature that distinguishes
this directory from past editions is that the 1975 issue
was produced by a computerized method.

The directory has three sections:

Alphabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since
1749 is listed alphabetically, together with his class, his
degree, his address, and his occupation.

Class List—A full list of the members of each class, in-
cluding degree holders and non-graduates, appears in
this section.

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by
cities within these states as well as in foreign countries.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be with-
out this valuable reference book in his home or office.
Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send me............... copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, including postage. Check
is enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

Alumni Directory
1749-1975

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
Published by
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI INCORPORATED

1976

 

 

 

ALLEN—ETHAN 31 LLB (1925-31X) WILLKIE FARR
& GALLAGHER 277 PARK AVE NEW YORK NY 10
017 LAWYER,PARTNER WILLKIE,FARR,GAL-
LAGHER q

ALLEN—EUGENE K * 31 (1927-28)

ALLEN—FREDERICK M 43 BA (1939-43) MA GEN.
ERAL DELIVERY TAOS NM 87571

ALLEN—G WILLIAM JR 69 BA (1965-69) 30 MAN-
OR DRIVE HUDSON OH 44236 LAW STUDENT
OHIO NORTHERN

ALLEN—G ASHLEY 65 BS (1961-65) PHD 130
BURNETT DR SPARTANBURG SC 29302 DIR OF
DEV DEERING MILLIKEN RES CORP q

Sample
Alphabetical
List

Entry

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

HOMECOMING |

 

SS

  
  
  
  
   

AN
=f;

saws

        
  
 

 

  

st

SDy
OG

SSS

 

 
 
  
 

We Seer Re oy fe a
RAL { - Fe A
AUK eR ee eG

oS \ ee We Sa
Wield ee ee =
WY/ \ aaa eS >

I-A” oe
CA \y: e

Ally
)

Bs

  
  

Lea
SDS

    

SS

   

    

  
  
   
 
 
    

ae

   
  

    
        

    
 
 

 

Lif,

  
     

“Le

LLL
SSN

EY

is
AI 2%

>

4, om

Ea
yg

Bra pare ey parte
RY ag

 

eX

       
  
     
   

 

      

 

   
  
 

SS >>
Se
A Vaeae

 
   

 

Lhe

UN

MM
Sez

»S)

NY
KK
449 =
SS

Re
GY . fd CRESTS
aS

LL.
KK
wo

Ss

   

SS
ce

   

Sy
ae,

i

AY

SS
UL»
ap Py
ERC

  
 

      
  
 

      
 

 

>)

 

  
 

SESS

   
   
  
    
     
  

yi
Li)
Ly.
Sy
~
KR)
Ee

KLktle
atane’

  

 

   

LZ,

     
    
    
 

     
  
    
    
 

   

  

  

   
 

 

BN ie
WN aN ey ee
i yf AE ie rh ey / 7) LS nin, | ee HS AY
AN ONIN BNI. SA WEA, YAN ON WI Fa
RAV Cae y Ih NY y ( 1 yy (yn wee i
g

 

J 1p

FALL CLASS REUNIONS
OCTOBER 7 - 8

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of 1932, 1942, 1947, 1957, and 1972

And Homecoming for All
October 8

Washington and Lee vs. Maryville College

