 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Vy.
&

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 53, Number 1, January 1978

William C. Washburn, ’40 ...................4. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keele, 68. 2... 6. oc a cine Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing, 77 .............. Assistant Editor
We er a eg ie es Editorial Assistant
Oe A rc. A i Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

‘Fhe University Today ...:......:.5.-c:d0t a ]
CADAVER—Anonymous Donot..............::::008 7
W&L Gazette... 20.02... cee 8
Spring Term in Bayreuth.............cccsccceesseeeeeseees 14
Chapter N@WS ......0:cé..s.-.c:sseceecaneassnceronshgeeg pete 16
Class of (42 Letter .2.01:00...3.. ci 18
Alumni Distal 2.0... ee 20
Call for Awards NOMINn€€S ............::ccccceessseeeeeeees 20
Annual Fund Progress. .o...... ic ee 22
Ot ES ini Cua eta cea eee: 23
BE I goo ans vce ne ecco cen sdeevsconmmnmbesganses is 28

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpDwIN J. Fo.tz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

ROBERT M. WHITE II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President

JERRY G. Soutn,’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WAsHBuRN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

FRED Fox BENTON JR., 60, Houston, Tex.
WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DENNY, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 758, Richmond, Va.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HOLLIs, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
PAuL E. SANDERS, ’43, White Plains, N.Y.

ON THE COVER: Three separate storms within eight
days in January dumped.a total of 21 inches of snow on
Lexington, leaving the campus under a deep white
blanket. W&L students were out en masse with snow-
balls, tubes (yes, even in the winter those inner tubes get a
lot of use), and cameras. W&L photographer Sally Mann
was among them. For other campus snow views, see the
inside back cover.

 

 

 

 

THE UNIVERSITY TODAY

President Huntley’s Remarks to Parents Provide an Overview

President Huntley’s remarks to parents this academic year represented a brief
report on the state of the University. Excerpts from his remarks follow:

... I will follow up today briefly on one or two items I reported to
those of you who were here last year and then make a few comments
about Washington and Lee’s academic program.

 

ENROLLMENT

 

Last year I referred to the size of our University and to our intention
to take account of the fact that enrollment had grown to more than
1,450 in the last three or four years, a result of several years of larger-
than-anticipated freshman classes, together with a diminishing rate of
attrition in the upperclass years. Of course, one aspires to have as low a
rate of attrition as possible; it is the healthiest sign a school can have.
Our computations, based on: both five- and 10-year experience,
indicate that an entering freshman class of about 350 in the
undergraduate schools will produce for us, at current rates of attrition,
a total undergraduate student body of about 1,375. We think that this
size student body—given the interests of our students and the size of
our curriculum works well for us both economically and pedagogically.
And so we have provisionally settled on that as the number we would
like to have for the forseeable future. This year we hit that number
almost exactly on the head.

 

 

 

 

 

FINANCES AND TUITION

 

I mentioned to you last year, as I probably always do, something
about Washington and Lee’s financial picture, and I will do that
again—very swiftly. I don’t want my swiftness, however, to be taken as
an understatement of the importance of the matter.

By way of brief summary of the budgetary picture at Washington
and Lee, tuition income provides about 60 percent of our expenditures
for educational and general purposes. That figure has been relatively
constant for nearly 10 years now. One of the premises of our planning
is that we must hold tuition as nearly as possible to that percentage of
operating expenses. This does not mean, of course, that tuition can be
expected not to increase. It does mean that we aspire, as we have
aspired for the last 10 years,:to hold tuition at or below the general rate
of inflation in the economy.

The University’s various forms of endowment and certain trusts
held by others yield about 23 percent each year of the amount needed
to cover our educational and general expenditures.

A very large percentage—12 percent—comes from annual giving to
the University from its alumni and its friends and its parents.

 

 

 

 

NEW LIBRARY

 

I call your attention to the new undergraduate library, which we
were just beginning when you were here a year ago. It looms large now
on the back campus, and is scheduled to be completed sometime late in
the summer of 1978—a far more ambitious schedule than I had been
able to predict last year.

As you know, the library is the last major physical addition to the
campus that had been planned in our Program for the ’70s. The next
part of the physical plan calls for renovation of the old library building,
McCormick, to become the home of the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics—to be followed by renovations to other parts of
the Front Campus. Since completion of that first phase of our
comprehensive Development Program—$37.5 millon raised, against
a $36-million objective—the Board of ‘Trustees and _ faculty
committees, since January a year ago, have been intensively engaged in
determining and planning for the University’s financial and other
needs for the years immediately ahead. We have made good progress
with that, and I hope we will be able to give some comprehensive report
shortly on what that plan will require.

 

PLACEMENT

 

Let me move on to make a few comments about our academic
program. That, I think, is perhaps what will interest you the most.
Looking toward what happens at the end of a student’s undergraduate
career here, I can report to you that more than 90 percent of the class
of ’76, the class for which we have the most recent statistics, were either
in graduate school or in jobs by September, 1976.

One interesting figure that might be of some interest to you is that
about 40 percent of our graduates go directly into graduate school.
That number is down from perhaps as much as 70 percent 10 or 12
years ago. I am not sure that is bad, incidentally. I believe that if you
were to trace the same classes out for another three years, which is
difficult but which we have made some effort to do, you would find that
within three or four years of graduation, about 60 percent of our
students will have found their way into graduate school. Nevertheless,
the percentage going into graduate school is down somewhat from the
mid- 1960s, which I think reflects both the economic temper of the time
and perhaps also some recognition on the part of businesses and others
that graduate degrees are not always a prerequisite to success.

 

WRITING SKILLS

 

We began something new this year—the faculty did—displaying a
growing concern on its part, which reflects in part a national concern,
with what is perceived to be the diminished skills of today’s student
population in handling the English language, particularly written
language. You have read a lot about that, I am sure, and have perhaps
witnessed it yourself.

I have no real way to describe to you how serious the problem is. My
main point is simply to note that our faculty is quite aware of the need
for increased emphasis in this area and has begun to do something
about it. Beginning with this year’s class, all entering freshmen were

2

 

 

 

 

required to prepare a composition, based generally on one of a couple
of books they had been asked to read. Each composition was then
reviewed by each incoming freshman’s faculty adviser. (Perhaps you
know that all our freshmen are assigned to advisers, with no faculty
member having more than five or six advisees.) In cases where the
adviser found what he regarded as serious weakness in the handling of
the language, those incoming freshmen were referred to members of
the Department of English, both for assistance and for advice as to the
kinds of courses they should take to strengthen their skills in this area.
Beyond this formal addition to our program for entering freshmen, I
think it is clearly true that the faculty as a whole feels a deep
commitment to improving this area of the skills of our students before
they leave us. That has not always been the case here or anywhere. I
think it is also a positive indication of the degree of the responsibility
the faculty of Washington and Lee displays in handling its assignment,
its authority and responsibility.

 

CURRICULAR DEVELOPMENT

 

We continue to explore additions to the curriculum and new
programs that we believe might be helpful. Washington and Lee’s
general approach to curriculum, as you know, is not to embrace every
new fad that comes along. We believe that our strength lies in attending
to those programs and parts of the curriculum which experience has
shown us to be good and worthwhile.

But this does not mean that we undertake no exploration in
curricular matters. I would point, for example, to recent offerings that
have been developed at W&L in pre-professional ethics in journalism,
law and medicine, which have.attracted some attention nationally, and
I think they will become stronger as years go on; I would point also to
the increasing attention we give to our already strong program in East
Asian Studies.

I would further mention that in any given year, some 300 to 400 of
our students engage in a supervised independent study project,
compared with perhaps 50 who engaged in such projects as recently as
only seven or eight years ago. These graded independent study
projects are now available in virtually every department in The College
and School of Commerce and are directed on a one-to-one basis. The
form of program offered by each department varies, of course,
depending on the needs of each particular student. It may be a tutorial
or research program or a combination of the two. In each case, a final
graded product is required—in the form of a paper, seminar offering,
play or artistic creation, or some other medium. But the faculty has, it is
clear, attended this independent study program with a degree of rigor
which gives us good promise of its fulfilling the purpose we had in
mind for it.

 

SIX-WEEK TERM

 

The six-week Spring Term, which we instituted six or seven years
ago, has, in the view of most members of the faculty, though not all,
proven to be a useful addition to our way of running things
academically. It would be roughly true to say that in any given Spring
Term, about 50 percent of the offerings and faculty and student effort
are devoted to courses quite similar to, and in many instances identical

 

 

 

 

to, the courses taught during the two 12-week regular terms.
Accordingly, students who for some reason have not been able to take
certain traditional courses during the 12-week terms may take them
during the Spring Term.

About 50 percent of the effort of the faculty and students during the
six-week term is spent in special offerings—that is, courses not offered
at any other time of the year, tailored both to the length of the six-week
term and to our intention to offer more unusual kinds of study
opportunities involving, perhaps, a greater independent effort. There
are special seminars in nearly every area of the curriculum, involving
smaller numbers of students than during the 12-week terms.

In addition, about 100 of our students during the six-week Spring
Term are engaged in some effort off the campus—some of them
abroad at diverse spots ranging from Europe to the Far East, some in
internships in journalism, for instance, others elsewhere. Most
students, however, are here on campus—engaged, in many cases, in
one or another of the special Spring-Term offerings. I think, by way of
general evaluation, the faculty has been relatively successful—I believe
I reflect its view in telling you this—in assuring you that the Spring
Term is attended with a degree of academic rigor that is consistent with
Washington and Lee’s pursuit of academic excellence.

 

GRADE INFLATION?

 

I also mentioned last year something about a subject which attracts
much attention these days—grade inflation. You have read about it in
the newspapers, perhaps, and certainly our faculty has read about it in
educational journals. It is widely perceived that at the college level—
and certainly at the elementary and secondary levels, but I am
addressing the college level now—there seems to have been a general
inflation in the grades students achieve. I suppose no one really knows
whether it reflects an increased ability in intelligence on the part of the
student population or whether it reflects something less desirable than
that. Probably it reflects a little bit of both. In any event, just to cite one
Statistic, our all-student average in the undergraduate schools is
around 2.7, which is a bit above middle-C. That statistic has been about
the same for the last three or four years. It is higher by about 0.3 than it
would have been perhaps 15 years ago.

Generally speaking, it appears that grade inflation, such as it is, has
been slower at Washington and Lee than on the national level, certainly
slower than at most other schools with which we have been able to make
direct comparisons.

I hear comments about grade inflation from various perspectives.
Parents generally think our grades aren’t inflated enough. And alumni
generally think they are inflated too much. Alumni, you see, are always
protective of the quality and grading of the offering here, insisting that
it should be at least as rigorous now as it was when they were here, for
obvious reasons. And that is good. Parents and current students are
sometimes concerned with more immediate problems than that. It all
depends on one’s perspective.

I think my own evaluation is that the rather small grade inflation that
has occurred at W&L over the last 10 or 15 years is probably consistent
with the increased quality of our offerings and with the increased
quality of our student body as compared with, say, a student body that
might have included me 25 years ago.

4

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLASS SIZE

 

In a school as small as Washington and Lee—which aspires to retain
the very broad curriculum that characterizes us—the large number of
courses and the large number of areas in which those courses are
offered pose problems in educational management, with which we try
to cope on a kind of ad-hoc basis. By way of example, we have seen in
the last two or three years increasing numbers of students enrolling in
courses in the School of Commerce, Economics and Politics—a
significantly higher percentage than was the case 10 years ago or so.
That fact has necessitated some adjustments, not all of them happy
adjustments, in the sizes of classes and certain offerings in the School of
Commerce. Some of the classes are larger now than we wish they
were—larger than we expect them to be over the long haul. It has
resulted in an overload of some of the faculty in the School of
Commerce—which the faculty, I might add, is extraordinarily good
about accommodating.

It has led to some concern about the creation of imbalances within
our curriculum if these trends should continue for a substantial
number of years—imbalances that in theory eventually threaten the
breadth of offerings of which the University is so proud. None of this
has happened yet to us in any serious degree, and I really don’t think it
will. But there is no magic way of solving or alleviating problems of this
sort, and we simply undertake a combination of a number of things to
adjust to these changing tastes of our students. Most such trends in the
past have been proved to be-relatively short lived; that is, not to be
projected over any 10-year period—and we have been able to ride
them out without major changes or major shifts within our curricular
structure. We assume this to be the case with this trend, but, of course,
we have no absolute way of knowing. It is a trend that is found
nationally, incidentally—in part attributable here to the strength of the
offerings in our School of Commerce. It is also attributable, I am
confident, to the increasing attention students seem to be giving these
days to the job market.

It is Washington and Lee’s intention, and we have generally lived up
to it, to make it possible for our students to select any courses they wish
in combination with our distribution requirements and_ the
requirements set for specific majors by the various departments. It is
Our intention not to impose artificial closures or artificial restrictions of
any kind in order to restrict enrollments in particular courses. We have
rarely had to resort to that, and certainly our first objective is to find
solutions for these imbalances—which we have found do not normally
last very long—to find solutions which do not jeopardize our ability to
give our students a free choice.

 

STUDENT COUNSELING

 

One of the things I mention to all incoming students each year and
that I also want now to mention to their parents is that Washington and
Lee prides itself on its ability to assist its students in a variety of ways on
an individual basis, and I think we fulfill that promise. We do not,
however, very often force advice on our students. One of the hallmarks
of Washington and Lee’s way of organizing itself is that we treat our
students as adults from the day they arrive here. This is a part of our
educational philosophy. They will be entering the world as adults in a

7 \/ a. \/\ x
RX XMAXXN

 

 

 

 

very few years, and if they don’t begin to recognize that fact here, they
may never begin to recognize it. We try very hard to stick to this
principle, even when our expectations are disappointed; and even
when we are disappointed, we don’t change our expectations. If our
students need assistance or advice in any area, they are invited to seek
it. They will generally find it.

 

FACULTY STRENGTH

 

We think we have the most beautiful campus in the world, and we
think our physical plant is strong, and we think there are a lot of good
things about the school, but the strongest quality Washington and Lee
has always had is its faculty, and that quality can perhaps not be
measured in any way.

There are quantitative data that one can look at. Last year, for
example, our faculty was responsible for the publication of nine or 10
fairly major books; 45 or more articles in journals, and 50 or more
papers delivered to learned socities—and that is a fairly typical array of
a year’s production for our faculty, measured in those terms. Ninety-
seven of the faculty in the undergraduate divisions of the University
hold Ph.D. degrees: that is, 83 percent of 118 teachers who are in
departments where the Ph.D. is the standard measure of attainment.
The average age of the faculty is about 40, and the age spectrum is
fairly well scattered. The faculty turnover is relatively low. We hire
about four or five new faculty members each year; this is our typical
figure. We think that is a fairly good record.

But those kinds of statistics don’t really tell you about our faculty's
greatest strength—its devotion to the educational ideals of this
University. Our teachers have, of course, and we encourage them to
have, the highest measure of pride in their professional
accomplishments, in their expertise within their disciplines; they have
that pride as a good faculty must. Coupled with that, however, our
faculty also has—and this is fairly rare, in my observation—at least in
equal degree an institutional dedication, a dedication to Washington
and Lee and to its objectives. If an institution ever loses that, it probably
never can regain it. Washington and Lee has it to an amazing degree,
not attributable to anything you have done or I have done, but rather
attributable to a heritage of such strength; this, I think, our faculty feels
very deeply. We are proud of our faculty.

 

STUDENT RESPONSIBILITY

 

We are also proud of the way in which our student body generally
manages the extraordinarily large area of responsibility entrusted to it.
Again, our expectations of our students in this area are high. Even on
the rare occasions when those expectations are disappointed, we don't
change the expectations; and, generally speaking, those expectations
are eventually realized.

For me, as the president of Washington and Lee for about 10 years
now, I can tell you that one of the most satisfying parts of what I do 1s
the relationship I have with the students who are in charge of the
various student activities on the campus. There are problems;
obviously, there are problems. Mistakes are made from time to time;
obviously, that is so. But, on the average, year in and year out, the
measure of integrity that our students attach to the responsibility we
give them is an astounding and encouraging factor to me.

6

 

 

 

By Robert S. Keefe, ’68

CADAVER F

C-Society Now Makes Its Mark on the Treasury Instead of the Sidewalk

Alumni of more than a certain
number of years who looked carefully at
the list of Robert E. Lee Associates in
the Annual Fund Report issue of the
magazine (October) were surely puzzled
(at least), perhaps distressed, at one
conspicuous entry among the names of
the University’s most generous
benefactors:

CADAVER F
At least one such W&L man, in fact, not
at all far removed from W&L affairs (he
has an office in Washington Hall),
speculated in horror that either a
grotesque typographical error had
somehow slipped through, or somebody
in the print shop had committed an
unforgivable prank.

Not at all. Meet Charles A. Daver.

Daver turns 20 this year. You have
never seen him yourself, but if you
spent much time on campus during his
youth, you probably knew him by his
mark: the once-ubiquitous skull-in-a-C,
painted in the dead of night on anything
made of concrete, everywhere on
campus.

But one doesn’t see that these days.
To the relief of nearly everyone, Charles
A. Daver now channels his talents into
something entirely different. The name
has been compacted, like Herblock’s,
and Cadaver’s mark on the University is
no longer on the sidewalks. It’s on the
treasury instead.

Cadaver was established in 1957; its
membership list is as closely guarded as
any secret of any government. Even
when it contributes to the University, it
deals in cashier’s checks that cannot be
traced, the way John Baresford Tipton
did on the old Tv series.

It is a social club with an added
purpose: to provide financial assistance
to Washington and Lee, thanks to
continuing (and always anonymous)
support from its members after they
graduate.

Cadaver is actually a tax-exempt
corporation; its membership is now
around 170. It chooses five or 10 new
members a year from among the junior
and senior undergraduate classes and
from the law school. It conducts super-

 

Y

IN APPRECIATION OF
GENEROUS SUPPORT
TO THE

 

 

Image past

secret meetings twice a year, apparently
in a different city each time. (Does one
speak of a Cadaver convention as a
“wake”? A “féte worse than death”?)
Cadaver alumni travel to the get-
togethers from everywhere, we’re told,
and student members are whisked from
campus to attend too. Cadaver elects
officers annually; it even publishes a
membership directory, and members
receive quarterly communiqués

from central Cadaver control.

Members’ identities aren’t supposed
to be kept secret for eternity, however.
Like the Seven Society at the University
of Virginia, Cadaver intends to let the
W&L world know who its members
were—post mortem. (Our Cadaver
Contact reports that Jay W. Stull, 60, is
the only member who has died so far.
He was killed Feb. 28, 1968, in action in
Vietnam, where he served with the U. S.
Marine Corps.)

Not too many years ago, seven or
eight, maybe, a good many Cadavers
found themselves entering into what our
Contact calls “our comfortable years,”
and it seemed the time had about
arrived to begin downplaying the
sidewalk-painting and upplaying the
money-giving. Cadaver has a bank

 

Your magazine editors put out the word this
winter that we'd like to talk with a
Cadaverman, and in short order one
telephoned—from out of state, we were told,
and with the consent of the ultra-secret
society’s officers.

ALUMNI HOUSE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI. INC.

 

... Image present

account (somewhere) and charges
modest annual dues. Members are also
encouraged to make additional gifts to
the society for transmittal to the
University. (Participation in Cadaver,
however, is supposed to be in addition
to—not instead of—regular, individual,
above-ground, non-anonymous
participation in the Alumni Fund. After
all, it would look pretty suspicious if
alumni who are known to be fond of the
University made themselves conspicuous
by ignoring the annual class campaign.)

Cadaver has made gifts to the Dean
Frank J. Gilliam Scholarship Fund, to
the lacrosse team for unexpected,
unbudgeted expenses, to the library.
Like an in-house foundation,
apparently, it considers specific
requests—if they come from W&L—on a
case-by-case basis. But most of its
contributions have been in the form of
unrestricted gifts to the Annual Fund.
Cadaver has been a member of the Lee
Associates (signifying unrestricted
annual gifts of at least $1,000) for six
straight years now, sometimes under the
nom-de-checque “C” Society, sometimes
forthrightly as Cadaver.

So Cadaver promises that acrylic
sidewalk decorations are a thing of the
past at W&cL.

“We'd like to think,” our secret
Contact says, “that the University will
consider it an honor to have people out
here who feel this measure of loyalty.”

And it is. Sherwin-Williams, your loss
is distinctly Washington and Lee’s gain.

7

a acai emda iat tedden —_,

 

Co

GAZETTE

Senior Mark Bradley Becomes W&L’s 11th Rhodes Scholar

Mark A. Bradley, a W&L senior
American history major, was one of 32
college men and women in America
named Rhodes Scholars in December.
The Rhodes is considered the most
important academic honor an American
student can receive.

Bradley becomes Washington and
Lee’s third Rhodes Scholar in the past
seven years, and W&L’s 11th since the
program was established in 1902 by the
British philanthropist Cecil Rhodes.

Bradley will spend two years at
Oxford in England “reading,” or
studying, modern history. He said he
hopes to pursue a career in the Foreign
Service.

He is a Phi Beta Kappa student at
W&L whose cumulative grade-point
average is 3.8 on a 4.0 scale. He has won
a number of grants and scholarships,
including a Robert E. Lee Honor
Scholarship, W&L’s Elizabeth B. Garrett
Scholarship in history, a George C.
Marshall Research Foundation
Scholarship, a Virginia Merit
Scholarship, and two academic awards
in the German department at W&L, the
Jim Stump and James S. Woods prizes.
He has also held two Robert E. Lee
Research Grants in history.

Bradley was Virginia amateur boxing
champion in the 140-150-pound weight
class from 1972 to 1976. In addition to
his studies, he has worked part-time
throughout college.

He is the son of State Police Sgt. and
Mrs. Charles S. Bradley of Roanoke. His
grandmother, Mrs. George Butler, lives
on a beef cattle farm in Steeles Tavern,
north of Lexington, and Bradley lives
there and helps with farmwork during
the school year.

Rhodes Scholars are chosen on a
regional basis in the United States.
Bradley was one of four selected from a
six-state region which includes Virginia.
Selections are based on intellectual
achievement, character, leadership, and
physical vigor.

Nationally, 32 Rhodes Scholars are
selected each year. Twelve 1977
recipients were women. This was the
second year women were eligible to
compete.

The last W&L man to win a Rhodes
was Ralph H. Smith (1973). Other W&L
recipients have been Marvin C. (Swede)

8

 

Mark A. Bradley

Henberg (1971), Timothy A. Vanderver
Jr. (1965), John B. McLin (1960), Robert
O. Paxton (1954), Edgar F. Shannon Jr.
(1947), Clarence Pendleton Lee Jr.
(1933), Samuel A. McCain (1927),
Fitzgerald Flournoy (1922), and Francis
Pickens Miller (1919).

 

‘Turner presents smiles
from Lexington’s past

Stories of Ole Lexington, the fifth in a
series of Rockbridge County-related
books written or edited by W&L’s
Charles W. Turner, has just been
published by McClure Press. This most
recent of the books just may be Dr.
Turner’s most delightful. About a third
of it consists of anecdotes about
Lexington people—some in the form of
oral-history recollections of others, some
presented as Dr. Turner’s own
reminiscences. Take these few
highlights, for example (extracted from
the book with permission):

Miss Katie Campbell, who taught
school in the county for 37 years,
remembers the days when the Manly
Memorial Baptist Church was located
directly behind the Lexington
Presbyterian Church on Nelson Street.
They were so close together, in fact, that
“in the summer, when the windows were
open, the singing at each church was

heard easily” in the other. “One Sunday,
the members of one church sang ‘Will
There Be Any Stars in My Crown?’ The
other congregation replied with ‘No,
Not One.’ ”

Several of the “Stories” come from
Mrs. Frederic M. P. Pearse, daughter of
the late W&L treasurer, Paul Monroe
Penick. Mrs. Pearse, now a Lee Chapel
lady, recalled the story about Dr. De La
Warr Benjamin Easter of W&L’s
romance languages department, known
universally as “Cutie” as a consequence
of his distinctive sartorial appearance.
“One summer, John Graham [also of the
romance language faculty] was in Paris
and saw a person in the distance.

Graham said “Those rumpled pants can
only be those of Doctor Easter.’ And
indeed they were.”

Mrs. Pearse remembers walking
down Main street one day and
encountering Mrs. Barrington King
West, “one of the first women in
Lexington to smoke a cigarette.” During
their conversation on the sidewalk, Mrs.
West “was hiding a cigarette, which fell
into a pile of leaves that started burning.
The fire sent billows of smoke, and Mrs.
West looked shocked, knowing all the
time it was her cigarette.”

Another friend of the Penick family
was Greenlee Letcher, whose office was
“a curiosity shop for all of Lexington.”
He “filed his papers in big barrels
around the room and even used his old
Franklin stove for the purpose in the
summers.” Mrs. Pearse remembers
looking into one of the barrels one day
and seeing on top of the pile a paper
dated the year she was born. (“He knew
the location of every scrap,” Dr. ‘Turner
comments.)

Mrs. Pearse’s father was also
president of the Rockbridge Bank, and,
she recalls, he once had an unusual visit
there from a certain lady of the town
who was “none too careful a driver,”
when she took a corner too sharply and
ended up in the bank lobby. Mr. Penick
“went out to greet her, saying ‘We are
glad to see you, Miss Emily, but next
time, please walk in.’ ” Later, Dr. Turner
notes, the same lady “took her meals at
the Robert E. Lee Hotel and often
parked her Model T on the sidewalk
and went in for a meal.”

Another Lexington family of Mrs.

I EE EE EE

Pearse’s acquaintance had a dog named
Wahoo that was so beloved by its owners
that when the dog died, friends came to
call.

There is the wonderful story too
about Miss Ellen Anderson, who “was
accustomed to reading long papers to
the historical society or Ignorance Club.
The topics might be “The Wounding of
My Father’ or “The French Guns of
V.M.I.’ These would often put members
to sleep,” Dr. Turner notes. One time, a
member woke with a start and
exclaimed, “Has Miss Ellen gotten those
guns to Lexington yet?”

There may be alumni who remember
Prof. John Higgins Williams of the
political science department, whose
classes were always taught “on the first
floor of Newcomb Hall in the classroom
on the side. When classes were still held
on Saturdays, students having had a big
weekend would appear for roll call and
then leave quietly by the window.”

In all, Stories of Ole Lexington contains
about 45 of Dr. Turner’s own
reminiscences and eight separate
accounts of interviews with Lexington
people whose own recollections were
recorded. (John F. Zink, a 1975 W&L
graduate, worked with Dr. Turner in
recording the oral histories under a
Robert E. Lee Research Grant.) _.

The volume also contains reprints of
four scholarly articles by Dr. Turner
which were published previously.in
specialized journals: the edited letters of
Dr. John Johnston; a history of the
Franklin Society; a biographical essay
about Andrew Moore, trustee of Liberty
Hall and the first U.S. Senator from
west of the Blue Ridge; and an account

 

 

ae

Dr. Charles W. Turner

of Gen. David Hunter’s raid on
Lexington in 1864.

Stories of Ole Lexington is available by
mail to alumni for $7 postpaid from the
W&L Bookstore, Lexington 24450.

W&L has participated for five years, is
designed to bring the academic world
and the worlds of business, diplomacy,
journalism and the other professions
closer together.

 

W&L and VMI are host
to political scientists

Politics instructors met in Lexington
in December for the annual Conference
of Virginia Political Scientists, for which
Washington and Lee and Virginia
Military Institute were hosts.

A highlight of the conference was a
keynote address by John O. Marsh,
former counselor to President Ford.
Marsh is a 1951 graduate of the W&L
law school and is currently a member of
V.M.I.’s board of visitors.

 

 

Former Ambassador Schaetzel
is Wilson Fellows visitor

J. Robert Schaetzel, former American
ambassador to the European Economic
Community (the Common Market),
visited Washington and Lee for a week
in January under the Woodrow Wilson
Fellows program. Schaetzel delivered a
public lecture, “Europe in Trouble: A
Role for America,” and lectured and
met with students in classes and
informally throughout the week. He
began his State Department career at the
end of World War II and was deputy
Assistant Secretary of State for Atlantic
Affairs at the time of his elevation to the
Common Market ambassadorship in
1966. The Wilson Program, in which

 

Architectural exhibition
is part of celebration

A major exhibition of 48 architectural
drawings for historic buildings in the
Lexington area took place in W&L’s
duPont Gallery this winter as part of the
University’s participation in the
Lexington/Rockbridge bicentennial
celebration.

Most of the late-18th, 19th, and early-
20th century plans, sketches, paintings
and blueprints had never been exhibited
before. They included an 1803 proposal,
never executed, for a “center building”
for Washington Academy and several
proposals from the 1920s for a major
enlargement of Lee Chapel. Both sets of
drawings were on loan from University
archives.

The idea for the architecture
exhibition grew out of the research for
The Architecture of Historic Lexington (see
the alumni magazine, November), by Dr.
Pamela Hemenway Simpson, assistant
art history professor at Washington and
Lee, and Royster Lyle Jr., associate
director of the Marshall Library. They
found—“tucked away in archives, files
and books”—a large number of
drawings that are “a significant part of
Lexington’s architectural heritage.”

The W&L exhibit was organized by
Simpson, who also wrote a critical essay
for a 48-page Catalogue to accompany
the month-long show. The Catalogue
was published by Washington and Lee
with financial support from Virginia
Military Institute and the
Lexington/Rockbridge County
Bicentennial Commission.

Included in the display were
examples of the work of several
nationally important professional
architects and of local “gentleman-
amateur” designers who would sketch
out their own plans and then have a
local builder erect the structure and
supply the finishing detail.

In addition to the 1803 plan fora
center building and proposals for Lee
Chapel from both the 19th and 20th
centuries, W&L buildings represented in
the exhibition include the President’s
Residence; a proposed dormitory (1868;
never built); Newcomb Hall; the existing
Alumni House, built as a professor’s
residence in 1887; a 19th-century

 

each of the architects represented in the
show, as well as Dr. Simpson’s critical
introduction. Copies are available to
alumni at $1 postpaid from the W&L
Bookstore, Lexington, Va. 24450.

tran
2 Be 8 aS SES SF

 

Lee-Jackson House
restoration is completed

The year-long restoration of the Lee-
Jackson House has been completed and
the historic building has once again
become a private residence.

The house—built in 1841-42—was the
home of Thomas J. (Stonewall) Jackson
before the Civil War, and of Robert E.
Lee and his family just after the war.

The meticulous restoration was
planned and directed by J. Everette
Fauber Jr. of Lynchburg, the well-
known restoration and preservation
architect. Part of the project involved
extensive historical research, which was
carried out as the work progressed.

Dr. and Mrs. Edward C. Atwood Jr.
have moved into the house. Atwood is
the dean of the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics. The four
antebellum residences on the Front
Campus, including the Lee-Jackson
House, have customarily been occupied
by a dean or senior professor ever since
they were built.

The restoration project included
repointing the exterior brickwork and
considerable structural work on the
wing in which Jackson and his bride
lived in 1853-54. The interior, which
had been modified only slightly in the
135 years since the house was built, has
also been restored faithfully.

The living and dining rooms and the
entryway in the house are being

 

David C. Humphreys’ plan for the Newcomb Hall portico

        

eS

 

aa siesists. 3 F

About 150 guests came to duPont Gallery fora reception marking the opening of the exhibition “Archi- furnished with mid-19th-century pieces
tectural Drawing in Lexington, 1779-1926.” Among the ebullient partygoers were Mrs. Fred Hadsel of of the kind that were in it when Jackson
Lexington (left), wife of the executive director of the George C. Marshall Foundation; Peter H. Goss, a and, later, the Lee family lived there.

WSL junior from Indiatlantic, Fla., and Pamela Hemenway Simpson, assistant art history professor at

WéSL and organizer of the exhibition and author of the Catalogue. The house was built as the official

residence of the president of

gymnasium, and old Tucker Hall. Also Davis’ ante-bellum drawings setting Washington College. Stonewall Jackson,
included were David C. Humphreys’ forth the Gothic Revival architectural a professor at neighboring Virginia
plan for the Newcomb Hall portico, pattern that has prevailed at the Military Institute, married Eleanor
which brought it into harmony with Institute ever since the 1850s. Junkin, daughter of the college
most of the rest of the Colonnade in Among the town-related drawings president, in 1853, and they lived with
1909, and his drawing of what Graham __ were the original plat for the street her parents. She died 14 months after
Hall, the first building on the campus, system (1779), Samuel McDowell Reid’s their wedding, but Jackson remained a
probably looked like. Also on display own drawing for his residence, now member of the Junkin household for
was a 1904 plan—prepared in known as the Reid-White House (the several more years.
connection with the construction of Reid Kappa Alpha chapter house until 1970), Robert E. Lee moved into the house
Hall—for developing the back campus. and a sketch by Mary Anna Jackson for — when he became president of the college
A number of V.M.I. buildings were a house for herself and her husband, five months after Appomattox. He and
represented in the exhibition, including Thomas J. (Stonewall) Jackson. his family, which joined him shortly
the first Jackson Memorial Hall (as well The exhibition Catalogue contains 27 —_ after he arrived in August, 1865, lived
as the second, the familiar one that illustrations, several of them in full there until a new, larger president’s
exists today) and Alexander Jackson color, and brief individual essays about house was completed next door in 1869.
10

a

The house is one of four neoclassical
residences built on the front campus as
part of the college’s 1841-42 building
program. The Lee-Jackson restoration
was paid for through a substantial gift
from an anonymous benefactor and a
grant from the Virginia Historic
Landmarks Commission.

The University plans to restore the
three other pre-Civil War front-campus
faculty residences as soon as gift funds
are available. The restorations are part
of W&L’s ongoing development
program for the decade of the 1970s.

Although the identity of the architect
is not known. The Architecture of Historic
Lexington, recently published by the
University Press of Virginia, says the
front-campus houses are characterized
by “the quality of the design and the

 

Living room furnished with 19th-century pieces

impressive architectural composition.”

The entire Front Campus at
Washington and Lee, including the Lee-
Jackson and the other houses, is a
National Historic Landmark, the highest
recognition the federal government can
give a private site. At the time it
announced the designation, the Interior
Department described W&L’s as “one of
the most dignified and beautiful college
campuses in the nation.”

 

Former President Cole

retires from library post

Fred Carrington Cole, president of
Washington and Lee from 1959 until
1967, retired Dec. 31 after 10 years as
president of the Council on Library

 

 

 

Former President Fred C. Cole

Resources in Washington, D.C.

He has been succeeded as head of the
foundation by Warren J. Haas, formerly
university librarian and vice president of
Columbia University. Dr. and Mrs. Cole
plan to make their home in Chapel
Hill, N.C.

Cole was academic vice president of
Tulane University at the time of his
election to the presidency of Washington
and Lee to succeed Dr. Gaines. He has
been a trustee of a number of
organizations interested in education
and in academic research, including the
College Entrance Examination Board
and the George C. Marshall Research
Foundation of Lexington. In 1976 he
was one of 10 recipients of Centennial
Citations awarded by the American
Library Association for “outstanding
contributions to the profession.”
Washington and Lee awarded him an
honorary Doctor of Laws degree in
1971.

He was a full-time consultant to the
Ford Foundation in 1954-55 and was a
leader in the establishment of the
Council on Library Resources, which the
Ford Foundation created in 1956. He
has been on its board of directors since
1962. The Council is now supported by
the Ford Foundation and other
foundations, and seeks, through projects
and grants, to help find solutions to the
problems facing libraries generally and
college and university libraries in
particular.

 

‘Contact’ speakers

Recent visitors to campus as part of
the student body’s annual “Contact”
series have been radical defense lawyer

11

 

William Kuntsler and tennis star Arthur
Ashe. “Contact” has also scheduled a
visit by William Colby, ex-director of the
Central Intelligence Agency, for
February. Additional “Contact”
participants will be named later in the
academic year, according to organizers
of the symposium, which is sponsored
jointly by the Interfraternity Council
and the Student Executive Committee.
“Contact” visitors generally deliver a
lecture in Lee Chapel and visit more
informally with students both before
and afterwards.

 

Other visitors

Other recent visitors to W&L:

— Stanley E. Fish, professor of
English at the Johns Hopkins
University, for a lecture, “Thou Shall
Not Commit Literary Criticism: Milton’s
Aesthetic of Testimony”;

— Richard S. Fiske, a research scientist
with the Smithsonian Institution,
specializing in vulcanology, for two
lectures, “Orientation and Growth of
Hawaiian Volcanic Rifts” and “Volcanic
Watching: Guadeloupe and Hawaii”;

— Howard Nemerov, one of
America’s leading men of letters (an
honorary degree recipient from W&L in
1976), for a public reading from his own
works and for a series of meetings with
classes in the English and physics
departments (some of Nemerov’s work
has dealt with scientific terms and
discoveries).

 

Faculty activity

— Benjamin M. Vandegrift, professor
of law, will teach in three seminars on
federal laws regulating political
campaigns and elections in February
and March. Two of the seminars,
sponsored by the Practicing Law
Institute, will examine the role of
corporate political-action groups in elec-
tions. The other, sponsored by the Fed-
eral Bar Association, will focus on cam-
paign financing generally. Vandegrift
was special counsel for the Federal Elec-
tion Commission in 1976.

— Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology and head of the department,
and James T. Becker, a 1975 W&L
graduate, are co-authors of an article on
the hippocampus, a primitive structure
in the brain associated with memory and
epilepsy. Their article appeared in
Behavioral Biology.

— Two psychology proféssors, David

12

understand the differences between
living and non-living objects. Her
research showed that complete
comprehension of the distinction does
not take place until about age seven.

— Maurice D. Leach Jr., head
librarian, was honored at the 1977
meeting of the Virginia Library
Association for his service to the group
during his term as its president. A
plaque presented to Leach noted VLA’s
“appreciation and recognition of endless
contributions to libraries and library
service in the Commonwealth through
outstanding leadership.” Leach was

G. Elmes and Joseph B. Thompson,
have had an article published in Bulletin
of the Psychonomic Society, reporting on
their research on human memory. Using
techniques more sophisticated than
those employed by previous
investigators, Elmes and Thompson
showed that what humans “rehearse” in
the memorization process is more
important than how they try to
memorize.

— Nancy Margand, assistant
psychology professor, is the author of an
article in Developmental Psychology,
examining how children learn to

 

The Reeves Collection was the featured loan exhibit at the prestigious Washington (D.C.) Antiques
Show in January, and almost 200 alumni and wives gathered at the Shoreham, where the show took
place, for a black-tie reception and banquet honoring the University. Among those attending were
Robert E. Lee IV (left) of McLean and Lewis F. Powell Jr., trustee emeritus. In the background
between them is a plate made in China for the Lee family in the 1750s, once owned by Mr. Lee’s
great-grandfather, Robert E. Lee, now included in the Reeves Collection.

    
   

th

0 : eed

This 18th-century soup tureen, once owned by Richard Henry Lee, has been given to Washington
and Lee to be added to the Reeves Collection by Mr. and Mrs. John Bouvier Johnson of Westport,
Conn. Mr. Johnson is the great-great-great-great-grandson of Richard Henry Lee, signer of the
Declaration of Independence and relative of Robert E. Lee. The tureen was made in China for the
Lee family between 1780 and 1790 and bears the family’s “L” monogram. The Reeves Collection
already contained pieces from the Robert E. Lee branch of the family; this is the first piece from
the Richard Henry branch. Mr. and Mrs. Johnson (above) presented the tureen to the University
on an autumn trip to Lexington.

eee OE Oe

president of VLA in 1975-76.

— I-Hsiung Ju, artist-in-residence,
exhibited 20 of his paintings in duPont
Gallery during the winter—10 “album
leaves,” paintings on rice paper or gold
leaves mounted on cardboard, and

10 larger works executed in acrylics and

oils, combining images taken from
photographs of area landscapes. Ju has
been described by the director of the

National Museum of History in Taipei
as “one of the few Chinese artists who
can blend two worlds into one and

enrich his work with modern techniques,

yet remain still essentially Oriental.”
— “Satellite Communication and

National Power,” an essay by O. W.

Riegel, professor emeritus of

journalism, has been published in the

anthology Mass Media Policies in

Changing Cultures, recently released by
John Wiley & Sons. Riegel’s article traces
the background of the international
problems encountered during
development of the existing
communications satellite system, and
discusses the problems connected with
administration of the system, including
the dilemma of how to deal with
propaganda broadcasts.

 

 

[-] Unit hit on the left side. Phaser
controls damaged. Warp engines hit
and losing power. Sensors failing.
Shields weakening. Damage control
reports no longer available. Klingon
battle cruisers in sectors 4-5, 3-7 and 6-
8.

Sounds a lot like the TV show “Star
Trek,” doesn’t it? In a sense, it is. One
of the more entertaining aspects of the
new Harris S-125 computer W&L
recently acquired is that it isn’t just
used to teach computer classes, which
is important, or to do the bookkeeping
and payroll, which is too. This
computer has been programmed with
a sense of fun.

There are a number of games in its
memory, including “Star” Trek.”
Others are “Adventur,” in which a lost
treasure is sought in caves and other
dark places while the player is
threatened by dwarves and other
wonderfully awful things (it may be
reliably noted that half the faculty are

VW,
&( BITS AND PIECES

addicted to this game); “Hunt the
Wumpus,” a tracking game in which
the hunter is as likely to shoot himself
as the wumpus, a beast which lives in a
dodecahedron (look it up) with bats
and deep pits for company; “Batnum,”
billed as the “battle of the numbers”;
“Golf” (whoever programmed this one
must have been a lousy putter and took
his revenge on everyone else; I have
never three-putted as many greens as I
did in that round); and “Lunar
Landing,” in which the player attempts
to pilot a spaceship to landing without
running out of fuel for the retro
rockets or hitting too hard (I did fine
until I was within a mile of the surface,
then it started to act like a yo-yo and on
one of the downswings, I crashed).
With the cathode ray tube terminals
(typewriters with TV screens), position
reports in “Star Trek” are flashed up
onto the screen. The Enterprise is
shown on the quadrant grid by an E,
the Klingons by Ks or Cs, and each

 

Drop shields . . . Fire photon torpedoes on course 2.3575 . .. What do you mean, I missed?

base where the Enterprise can
resupply as a B. One problem with all
that is you can never find the base, or
know where the Klingons are until
they start shooting at you.

But even worse is that a sense of time
Just vanishes. I suddenly woke up after
a more-successful-than-usual run (I
actually destroyed almost a third of the
Klingon fleet, some 35 opposing
vessels, before a star in my quadrant
super-novaed—vaporizing the Enter-
prise, the Klingons, me, and the game)
and realized that I had been sitting at a
computer terminal playing games for
eight hours.

The worst of it is, I think I am going
back tonight.

—D.W.D.

[J] Chalk up another victory for the
forces that love men and women but
hate persons. The W&L faculty has
placed the world on notice that it will
not tolerate “chairpersons.”

It all started with a seemingly
harmless motion, introduced in the
course of the faculty’s November
forgathering, that would require
students to channel some bureaucratic
form or other through “department
chairpersons.”

The motion was passed—but not
intact. There was a problem with
personhood.

The moment the teacher who
mentioned “chairpersons” sat down, a
colleague leapt to his feet and
introduced an amendment to do away
with the tawdry word and substitute in
its place “department heads.”

The amendment was not only
adopted without a murmur of
disagreement, but it also earned the
distinction of becoming the first
suggestion ever raised in a W&L
faculty meeting, apart from a motion
for adjournment, to be greeted with an
ovation.

 

13

 

 

SPRING
TERM

IN
GERMANY

W&L’s Representative
In Germany Praises
Six-Week Program

14

 

Piet soca

and President Huntley.

The man who has been finding homes
for W&L students during their six-week
term in Germany visited their academic
base last semester. Horst Kaspar, liaison
for the “Bayreuther Studienwochen,”
spent nearly a week in Lexington with
the program’s advisor, Prof. David
Dickens.

Kaspar, a professor of English at the
University of Bayreuth, was near the
end of a five-week visit to the United
States. He had been to Los Angeles, San
Francisco, the University of North
Colorado (for which Kaspar also
provides overseas liaison), and Georgia.
After a six-day stay in Lexington, he was
bound for Washington, D.C., and New
York City.

The number-two man in the English
department at Bayreuth (remember,
English is a foreign language there),
Kaspar is working on his doctoral
dissertation on the methodology of
modern languages, specifically English.
He has been W&L’s representative in
Germany for two years—our trouble
shooter and problem solver.

Dickens says his job has become much
easier since Kaspar has become the on-
the-spot representative. Kaspar finds a
place for students to live, usually with a
family which doesn’t speak English;

Horst Kaspar (right), liaison for WESL’s “Bayreuther Studienwochen,” visists with Prof. David Dickens ( left)

arranges special classes, tours and
lectures; and, of no little importance to
many W&L students, points out the
“bierstubes” from time to time.

He praises W&L’s program in
comparison with those of some other
schools. Colorado’s program, for
instance, lasts 10 weeks and is oriented
specifically toward the language with the
purpose of training teachers. The W&L
program, on the other hand, attempts a
grasp of culture along with the
language. Kaspar says W&L’s students
leave Germany after their six weeks with
as good a grasp of the language as the
Colorado students have after 10.

VIEW FROM BAYREUTH

For a more detailed look at the “Bayreuth-
er Studienwochen,” see the accompanying ar-
ticle, written for the Bayreuth newspaper last
April by Karin Sack, a journalism student at
the University of Munich who was working
for Nordbayerisher Kurier as an intern.

Since the spring of 1971, Washington
and Lee University, a private university
in Lexington, Virginia, has been
offering its “Bayreuther
Studienwochen” (Spring Term in
Bayreuth). According to Prof. David B.

Dickens, leader of the group of students
who have been guests of our city since
April 16 this year, the time in Germany
will be counted as a regular semester
after the students pass a final
examination. The students are expected
to use their knowledge of a foreign
language to learn something of the
history and culture of the host country.
The exchange program began when
Prof. Dickens proposed a stay in
Germany during the University’s newly
instituted short spring term; it was an
opportunity for students interested in
improving their knowledge of German
by actual study in Germany. Looking for
an appropriate city which combined cul-

tural attractions with an appealing setting

but which avoided the anonymity of a
metropolis, Dickens decided upon Bay-
reuth after receiving a letter from his

friend Achim Schievelbusch, principal of
the Stadtsteinach elementary school. And

because Dickens had already fallen in
love with Bayreuth upon his first visit
here, things began to move quickly.
Since then more than 80 students have
profited from their “Bayreuther
Studienwochen.”

For two years now, this privately
supported undertaking has been more
than a one-way street. Two German
students have been able, with Prof.
Dickens’ assistance, to discover the
appeal of a semester’s study in America.

This year’s group arrived in Germany
on April 12. But because of Dickens’
previous experience with students
exhausted by the long trip, the group
first spent a few days in Miltenberg to
become acclimated. There the professor
was able to carry out without distraction
a “pre-program” to test his students’
endurance. Their activities included a
visit to a museum of local history where
the youthful Americans were
immediately confronted by a fast-
speaking guide. The night before their
departure for Bayreuth there was a
discussion of the experiences they had
had while in Miltenberg.

Skillful planning such as this enabled
the students, most of whom have been

 

“Ende gut, alles gut!” Washington and Lee students take a break during their six-week term in Germany and

enjoy Rauchbier in Nurnberg.

studying German for two years, to
overcome their inhibitions about
speaking a foreign language; it also
provided early conversational material

for them in their Bayreuth host families.

Prof. Dickens did not seek English-
speaking landlords for his proteges; he
maintains that his students should
simply be forced to put their knowledge
of German to work in the families with
whom they are staying.

This and the fact that other countries
simply do things differently often leads
to amusing incidents. For example, one
young American wanted to learn from
his hosts how to eat a soft-boiled egg
after he had taken off the shell as
though it were a hard-boiled egg, and
was now holding the gooey mess in his
hands. From his own experiences at
home he knew only hard-boiled eggs.

Another student once stayed seated
with his family at the table for a good
four hours after dinner, simply because
he couldn’t come up with the proper
words to excuse himself so that he could
get to his academic work. Prof. Dickens
advised him to excuse himself politely in

the future and to offer an explanation
for leaving the table, for such little
things are taken very seriously in
Germany.

The weeks in Bayreuth unfold
according to a fixed schedule. Classes
begin daily at 9 o’clock with exercises
such as work with the newspaper.
Students have to re-tell or re-work
certain passages. At 10 there is a
conversation hour during which
German students from the university’s
Teachers’ College simply talk with the
Americans. At 11 there is a guest lecture
by a German professor. This program of
study is broken up by a number of
excursions. Thus the American students
are going to Bamberg on Wednesday
where an art historian will guide them
and tell them about the city’s many
artistic treasures.

In all his activities with his charges,
Dickens urges them to put their
language to work and to improve it by
speaking with Germans whenever they
can. In his words, occasional fleeting
acquaintances may thus be turned into
lifelong friendships.

15

 

CHAPTER NEWS

CHARLOTTESVILLE. The emerging
Charlottesville chapter helped end a
local drought with a cocktail buffet at
the Monticello Hotel on Nov. 3. It was
well attended by alumni, spouses and
guests determined to build a strong
chapter in the heart of Wahoo territory.
John Little, 73, Dan Winter, ’69, and
Fran Lawrence, ’71, made the
arrangements and appointed John
Duckworth, ’71, master of ceremonies.
Special guests were University Trustees
Dr. Edgar Shannon, former president of
the University of Virginia, and Waller
Dudley; head lacrosse coach Jack
Emmer and All-American lacrosse
player Tom Keigler, ’77, who is now
assistant coach at UVA. Plans include
the official establishment of the chapter
before spring and a meeting in April in
conjunction with the lacrosse game.

DELMARVA. Even torrential rains
couldn’t dampen the enthusiasm which
accompanied the official opening of the
DelMarVa alumni chapter on Sunday,
Nov. 6. The occasion was highlighted by
an exhibit of the Louise Herreshoff
paintings at the City Hall Museum and
Cultural Center in Salisbury, Md. After
a special tour of the exhibit for alumni,
there was a reception with cocktails and
dinner at Johnny and Sammy’s
Restaurant in Salisbury. Ernest
Cornbrooks III, ’67, presided at the

16

 

CHARLOTTESVILLE—Obviously pleased to be at a Washington and Lee
alumni meeting in Wahoo country are Rob Vaughan, 66, and wife.

meeting. Robert Taylor, ’70, introduced
guests from the museum. The principal
speaker of the evening was James W.
Whitehead, University treasurer, who
told the story of “Louise Herreshoff: An
American Artist Discovered.” During
the working part of the meeting, the
following officers were elected:
president, Ernest Cornbrooks III of
Salisbury; vice president, James M. Slay
Jr., 65, of Easton, Md.; and secretary-
treasurer, David R. Hackett, ’69, of
Georgetown, Del. Other guests for the
inaugural meeting were William C.
Washburn, ’40, Buddy Atkins, ’68, and
John M. Duckworth, ’71, staff associate
for the University.

MIDDLE TENNESSEE. The Middle
Tennessee alumni chapter officially
joined the ranks Nov. 9 with an
outstanding party at the Belle Meade
Country Club in Nashville, which was
attended by alumni from all over the
chapter’s region. The boundaries for the
chapter are the Tennessee River in the
west, the counties of Overton, Putnam,
Warren, and Franklin in the east, the
Tennessee border in the south, and the
border plus a few Kentucky counties in
the north. James F. Gallivan, ’51,
presided at the meeting, introducing
University representatives including
President and Mrs. Robert E. R.
Huntley, Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Washburn,

# |

iil

Mr. and Mrs. L. C. Atkins and staff
associate Adrian Williamson of Little
Rock, Ark., and his wife. In a brief
business session the following offices
were filled: president, Ben Gambill Jr.,
67; vice president, Richard F.
Cummins, ’59; secretary-treasurer, Clay
T. Jackson, ’76; directors, Frank Berry,
°46, William Fuqua, ’52, James Gallivan,
51, Robert McCullough, ’58, and
Boardman Stewart, 59. President
Huntley was the principal speaker and
his report was followed by a question
and answer period. The chapter was
especially pleased to have
representatives of several high schools
and prep schools in the Nashville area
present.

DALLAS. A large contingent of
alumni, wives, guests, and parents of
both current and prospective students
gathered for cocktails and dinner at the
Bent Tree Country Club in Dallas on
Nov. 29. Chapter President Edward F.
Halsell Jr., 59, directed the after-dinner
program. Alumni Secretary William C.
Washburn spoke informally about the
University and the current financial
situation. Special guest Ken Ruscio, ’76,
assistant dean of admissions, reported
on the results of the admissions
recruitment program in Dallas that day.
He answered a number of questions
about admissions policies and

 

CHARLOTTES VILLE—Tom Keigler, ’77, Coach Jack Emmer, and F ran
Lawrence, ’71, ’75L, discuss lacrosse, of course.

 

 

introduced Thomas B. Ramey III, ’75,
who was assisting him in Dallas.
Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy
Atkins concluded the program with a
slide presentation of current campus
scenes.

PIEDMONT. President Robert E. R.
Huntley was the honored guest for a
chapter meeting Nov. 17 at the Salem
Tavern. After gathering at the tavern
for cocktails and dinner, the group,
which included the parents of students
as well as alumni, moved to the Salem
auditorium for a report on the state of
the University from President Huntley.
J. Alvin Philpott, ’45, a member of the
University’s Board of Trustees from
Lexington, N.C., John C. Hollister, ’58,
a staff associate from Atlanta, Ga.,
William C. Washburn and Buddy Atkins
also attended. ai

FORT WORTH. The chapter held a
luncheon meeting on Nov. 29 at the
Century II Club which overlooks the city
of Fort Worth. An enthusiastic group of
alumni and parents of current students
were on hand for lunch. Chapter
President Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, called
the meeting to order and introduced the
principal speaker, William C. Washburn,
alumni secretary, who made some
informal remarks about the University
in general and reported on the recent

surge in enrollment from the Fort
Worth area. The program concluded
with the presentation of a collection of
slides depicting current scenes on
campus.

LYNCHBURG. Once again the
Holiday season in Lynchburg opened
with the annual Washington and Lee
Alumni Chapter Dance on Friday night,
Dec. 2. The black tie affair took place at
the Elk’s Club with dance music by the
Velvetones. The W&L alumni and their
many guests enjoyed a gala evening and
departed reluctantly when the music
ended in the early morning. As has
become the custom, the Holiday season
opened with a “Swing.”

LONG ISLAND. The inaugural
meeting and formation of the Long
Island alumni chapter took place on
Dec. 8 at the Cherry Valley Country
Club in Garden City. Elected as the first
president of the chapter was Jeff
Wexler, 69. Duncan F. Winter, ’75, was
elected secretary/treasurer. Official
recognition of the chapter came from
Bill Washburn, alumni secretary, who
presented a certificate of membership to
the newly elected president. Also taking
part in the inaugural program were
William D. (Bill) McHenry, athletic
director at W&L, who gave a brief
report on the record of athletic teams at

W&L, and Buddy Atkins, who presented
a series of color slides of the campus.
Arrangements for the meeting were
made by Kenneth VanderWater, ’40,
and Clark B. Winter, 37. E. Stewart
Epley, staff associate for the Board of
Trustees, also attended. Wexler
expressed his appreciation for the
strong alumni interest and response
which led to the chapter’s creation.

SAN ANTONIO. A report on the
University and slides of the campus
were the highlight of a chapter meeting
in the President’s Room of the San
Antonio Country Club on Nov. 30.
University Trustee Tom Frost, ’50, and
his wife attended the reception and
dinner and welcomed other alumni and
their wives to the meeting. Arrange-
ments for the meeting were made by
chapter president Ralph E. Lehr Jr., ’73.

HOUSTON. An active student
recruitment program which resulted in a
record 14 Houston area freshmen at
W&L this fall was the subject of a report
by W. B. (Buck) Ogilvie, 64, at the
chapter’s stag luncheon meeting on Dec.
1. Bill Washburn and Buddy Atkins
were on hand for the occasion with a
report on the University and slides of
current campus scenes. Arrangements
for the meeting were made by the
chapter’s president, Rob Peeples, ’57.

 

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—Officers and directors: James F. Gallivan, ’51,
Boardman Stewart, 59, Richard F. Cummins, ’59, Frank A. Berry, ’46,
William G. Fuqua, ’52, Robert G. McCullough, ’58.

   

PIEDMONT—Trustee J. Alvin Philpott, 45, President Huntley, and W.
Lewis Hannah Jr., ’°74, converse at the Salem Tavern in Winston-Salem.

17

 

CLASS OF ’42 LETTER

‘There Is Nothing Quite Like Getting Together With the Old Gang And... .

Last October, the Class of 1942 held its
35th reunion. Dick Wright, a realtor and
occasional writer from Washington, D. C.,
was asked by his reunion chairman, Fred
Pitzer, to note the highlights of the reunion
for a newsletter. Wright says he didn’t volun-
teer, “but after four glasses of ginger ale
somehow it just seemed like the thing to do.”
These are just a few excerpts from Wright's
newsletter to the Class of ’42.

You can go on a fancy vacation,
travel to Europe, hit the beaches on the
weekend and enjoy life in a number of
ways, but there is nothing quite like
getting together with the old gang and
retelling stories of days gone by, some
true, some highly exaggerated, but who
really cares when you are with old
friends at a college reunion?

As for the generalities, Friday, Oct.
7, 1977, was a beautiful Friday in
Lexington. The main body of troops,

   

Aubrey Matthews, ’42

consisting of 55-strong plus their better
halves, held forth at the Holiday Inn,
now standing on the site where Steve's
Diner and staff opened a gourmet
restaurant, which burned down after the
hamburger king of Lexington moved
from the old stand-by across from the
Old Blue.

Friday afternoon, the cocktail party
at the Alumni House broke all the ice
necessary to accomplish a renewal of old
friendships, and a whole rash of new
ones which had many a gent saying to
himself, “That’s a great guy—wonder
why I didn’t get to know him better 35
years ago?” Buffet dinner at Evans Hall
was good and a short visit, primarily as
an observer, to the Homecoming Dance
was an education for most alumni.

18

    
   

Psychedelic lighting, crash, bang, you
name it, one wondered “who in the heck
dances?” And then on to the real party-

ing....

The post-game happy hour at the
Alumni House was hot and stuffy but
with the ice cubes tinkling, nobody
cared. Most alumni were very impressed
with the congeniality evidenced by the
undergraduates, as opposed to the “not-
so-friendly-attitude” a few years back.
Not only that, but the long tresses on the
students seemed to have disappeared
and along with it, the “el hippo” look.
Hair was over the ears and neatly
groomed. Quite a few of the
undergraduates had jackets on.

For those of us married these many
years, tempered by adversity and the
trauma of raising children, “These
things too must pass” and apparently
they have—for the time being. It was
heartwarming to see the attitude,
friendliness and maturity of these
youngsters. We have always known
W&L was something special—it is nice to
see that the off-spring are of the same
opinion.

Congratulations and a large
expression of gratitude are due several
classmates for making the 35th a success.
Fred Pitzer’s numerous warm and
inviting letters to all the alumni
attempting to whet their appetites to
attend will not be forgotten soon. Ned
Brower has agreed to serve as Class
Agent this year. He and other class
agents were discussing “giving” for a
brief moment and the conversation ran
like this: “Sometimes it hurts a little to
dig down and give, but for a project

Alex Hitz, °42

   

Ned Brower and Dick Brunn, 42

with such substance as the perpetuation
of a school like Washington and Lee
University, what better use of any excess
money that might be lying around?

After all, if you work hard all your life,
have your wife well provided for, why
not pass a little more ‘wampum’ along to
the grand old school in Lexington?
There you can see the results of your
giving.” To Russell Browning, thanks
for the dedicated and laborious work in
raising the class alumni “giving” to an all
time high during your four years as class
agent.

Among other things, this newsletter
is written with the hope that next time
around some of you who didn’t attend
the ’77 reunion will honor us with your
presence.

It is difficult to explain, but with 25
percent of the class returning, there
must be some reason for the absence of
the 75 percent. The years are moving on
and some of us may be apprehensive
about attending for varying reasons,
including just plain old shyness, or not
feeling that we will be accepted. We
urge you to come to the next reunion. If
one experiences an ounce of uneasiness,
it lasts exactly one minute and
disappears after the first meeting with
an old friend you haven't seen in 35
years. Even more important, you will be
shocked at the new friends you will
make, which you didn’t have time to
accomplish while in school.

As those Rebels say “y’all come.”
There is a sense of deep feeling, esprit
de corps and a real love and dedication
for the perpetuity of our alma mater,
and it’s nice to be a continuing part of It.

—Dick Wright

 

 

i aa

CLASS OF 1942—Among those present for their 35th reunion were (Ist row) Edgar Boyd, Russell Browning, Phil Wilhite, Bill Amick, Chris Barne-
kov, Bill Hopkins; (2nd row) Andy Lanier, Bob Lawton, Walt Aberg, Carter Refo, John Dorsey, Gordon Lloyd, Larry Bradford, Bill Gunn; (3rd row)
Lane Sartor, Bev Lee, George Wolfe, Tom Cox, Tom Garten, Bobby Vaughan, Clyde Smith Jr., Dick Sloan; (4th row) Sam Hawkins, Bob Root, Dick
Brunn, Gus Essig, Fred Pitzer, Dick Wright, Jack Fisher, Green Rives, Bob Baker, Burt Kadis; (top row) Joe Grubbs, Buford Conner, Dan Lewis,
Richard Burke, Bob Campbell, Sidney Isenberg, Bob Walker, Ned Brower, Dick Spindle, Evan Chriss.

a

CLASS OF 1957—Among those present for their 20th reunion were (seated) Elliot Joffe, M. M. Smith, Richard Berry, Tom Lohrey, Jay Fox, Don
Harper, John Boone; (standing) Ken Jones, Phil Campbell, Charlie Richardson, Bob Large, John Howard, Bill Kaufman, Lou Close, Warren Welsh,
Richard Raines, Bill Russell, Bill Abeloff, John Sinwell, Gerry Moyer, Tom Moore.

19

 

 

— 2 | ra a hat =
Mrs. Dorothy G. Hughes

Mrs. Doris M. Tomlinson

  
   

 

   

soiled MH ait

Miss Jeannie Brown

ALUMNI DISTAFF

Those Ladies on the Other End of the Phone

The phone never stops ringing in Bill
Washburn’s office, even when he isn’t
there to answer it. People call for a
classmate’s address, or a chapter officer
calls to ask if someone from the
University can come down for a
meeting, or maybe it is a call from an
alumnus looking for the right person in
the admissions office to tell about a “hot
prospect.”

“T’ve had a lot of people call me and
say ‘Since Dean Gilliam is gone, I don’t
know who to talk to over there,’ ” says
Washburn. “I think Rupert Latture and
I get more phone calls than anyone else
on campus.”

But Washburn doesn’t always answer
the phone. In addition to his assistant,
Buddy Atkins, ’68, there are four
women working in the office—Mrs.
Katherine D. Price, Mrs. Dorothy G.
Hughes, Mrs. Doris M. Tomlinson and
Miss Jeannie Brown.

None of them is more equal than the
others, says Washburn. “I expect all of
the ladies to be able to fill in and help in
all the areas.”

There are some defined respon-
sibilities, though. Mrs. Price, who
has worked in the office for 21 years, is
in charge of all the files—data on alumni
and record-keeping for the alumni

fund.
20)

Mrs. Hughes, a 15-year veteran of the
office, handles all the chapter
correspondence. While many alumni
might not know it, invitations from local
chapters for this event or that usually
originate in Lexington.

Homecoming and reunions are the
times when Mrs. Tomlinson is busiest.
Scheduling for the events, arranging
room reservations at the local hotels,
and making sure all the members of the
reunion classes are aware of the plans
are just some of her prime duties.

In addition to general secretarial work,
Miss Brown pitches in and helps out in
whatever needs to be done.

And there always is something else to
be done. Washburn estimates that as
many as 100 address changes come into
the office every week. The office has to
keep up with 15,000 alumni spread out
all over the world and provide any help
requested from the 57 alumni chapters.
And just when you think they might hit
a quiet spot, along comes a Special
Alumni Conference or Class Agents’
Weekend and the rush starts right up
again.

Probably the only time the phone
stops ringing is when it is covered by so
much mail that it can’t be heard. And at
a time like that, who has time to answer
it anyway?

 

 

CALL

FOR
ALUMNI
AWARD
NOMINEES

Now is the time to nominate your
candidate for a 1978 Distinguished
Alumnus Award, the highest honor
conferred by the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association.

The Distinguished Alumnus
Awards program was initiated in 1974
by the Alumni Board of Directors with
the approval of the University Board
of Trustees. The first years of the pro-
gram have been highly acclaimed, and
even broader participation in the selec-
tion process is sought among alumni
this year.

The awards recognize the recipients
for extraordinary achievement in their
personal and vocational lives. Among
the qualities considered are superlative
service to society, exceptional support
of and loyalty to Washington and Lee,
outstanding character, notable success
in a profession or business, and singular
contributions in worthy endeavors. The
awards program, in fact, supplements
the honorary degrees bestowed by the
University.

An awards committee appointed by
the Alumni Board of Directors screens
the nominations, and the Alumni Board
as a whole makes the final selections—
not more than three a year. University
President Robert E. R. Huntley and
Alumni Board President Edwin J. Foltz
will present the 1978 awards at the an-
nual meeting of the Alumni Association
in May.

The Alumni Board urges alumni to
seize this opportunity to nominate for
one of these coveted awards a fellow
alumnus whose life and work have
brought distinction to Washington and
Lee.

THE DEADLINE FOR NOMI-
NATION IS MARCH 24, 1978.

USE THE FORM PROVIDED TO
MAKE YOUR NOMINATION.

 

 

Fill in, detach, and mail to:
Awards Committee

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

The deadline for nominations is March 24, 1978

NOMINATION FORM FOR THE DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS AWARD

NOTE: Be sure the Nominee:

1. Has been out at least 10 years—his class must be 67 or earlier.

2. Has not received an Honorary Degree from Washington and Lee University.

3. Is not an employee of the University in any capacity.

4, Is not a member of the University Board of Trustees or the Alumni Board of Directors.

None 8 i a a a ae aca:

Sats eral wih yes woo eete va velcd le Gkna ate AiG oe Mice ls tee ek. o a aie 6.0 eb GIR fle 6 bo 06 0.0 6s 00 6 d6 066 0 ew 66 0 0 00 bie © Oe ee ROS MOE RMt 600 O09 G81 eF a ee 6 wee © 0/8 Pie 6 ie ere 8 '6/ai Gre ih Om Alera W sie: sie e.6 ise Sie 9 * eG eiense #9 8 Qe O18, @ 9:6 6 9p ee 9010 F.0)s ai ee.g © 9 @-eiMta-6 oss

Bee ee mm wm wwe reer er eer nee renner e revere cesresesressereceserevseess

co © bo 8 kb 6 0b 6 0 bie 6k Oe blala: dg wie le he Me eee pal Ake tal eats ee oe a eo od ae oe we ee ae ee oe whe 616 Bib a we 0 beh © © ble ece Oe as be ses Wie b RW Slee ba 3 Siw o Ab 6 ee lS 6 6 ©. 8h eee 456) 9 9 0S S 91k #44 0 8 wee ele Om es les 0:6 14 '6 6.5 6 0 0's bo 018d HS 80 0) Hi 6 0 8 68 C10 86 0 0 8 8 5/0 fw

co 6 0 tee be 00a 6 6 e 6 08 a 6 6 6 cbs 6 oe 6 6 ois bbe 8 66 6 6 ele bo Oe § Oe wo 8 ee 688 6 alee 6 ae ele aw A ee 8 aw Oe ee oe 4 8 a Oe Ww ee wl ae ee a wee 66 6G eke WIS 161d WhO O84 6b Big ON 6 4.16) 68 616 BS 8 8) 416 SOS 6 8 6.0 W666 e 6S 68 8g SS We 6 ee a 668 0h 0.6 OS Bie 0610 0 6 Oo 6 6.0 40 ee See CeO eee

Service to W&L (class agent, alumni activity, student recruitment and referrals, loyalty). Sponsor’s assessment of

nominee's service to.Alma Mater: 3.000 ae ctr lit pee aecn es cae me glide ancaeensees
Service to community, state and/or nation: (civic, military, philanthropic, political, etc.) 00.
Professions or business achievements (professional or trade NOMOTS) oo... eect ete teen

er Oe ed

0 600 0 6b cb eet O06 00 8b te 0 8 Ob Hb 6 ho 6b 66 be © Ow 66 66 6S Oo SC oc Hee wee he eH OHS CORE ESV FOO HOO SHOES HOE OOF 6 OFF 0 100406 E OH 0406 0:90 OHO COE HEETHST SOSH EHSS TESA HSH OSES HSHHCHSH OH SHS SCHED ES OSHS ESS ESE DS e CoH ee S488 6 6 SO

Please attach additional data and your assessment of the nominee (be brief and limit to one page).

Recommenaed Dy bea hace a ate DRA OE WC

Fe i ea ae ae A Phone =

 

 

 

 

2 1

 

C. Royce Hough IIT, ’59
Annual Fund Chairman

The 1977-78 Annual Fund is off toa
very good start. Through January 15,
2,985 contributors had given $488,404,
or 63 percent of this year’s goal of
$775,000.

Chairman of the 1977-78 Annual
Fund is C. Royce Hough III, 59. Hough
is a senior vice president of Wachovia
Bank and Trust in Winston-Salem, N.C.,
and is a former president of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Association. He
succeeds J. Carter Fox, 61, as chairman
of the Annual Fund. Assisting Hough in
the leadership of the Annual Fund are
S. Maynard Turk, ’52L, Law Alumni
chairman; John H. Van Amburgh, Cur-
rent Parents chairman; and W. Martin
Kempe, Past Parents chairman.

Listed below are the names of the 12
alumni vice chairmen, the 126 Class
Agents, and the nine Current Parents
area chairmen:

ACADEMIC CLASSES

Group I-A W. C. Washburn, ’40
Vice Chairman

1OA J. R. Blackburn
1l4A A. W. McCain
1I5A R. N. Latture
16A E. B. Schultz

17A W. J. Cox .

18A A. Beall, Jr.

19A A. A. Lander

20A J. G. Evins

21A S. L. Raines

22A V. E. Kemp

23A G. C. Mason, Jr

24A R. M. Jenkins

Group II-A H. G. Jahncke, ’30

Vice Chairman

25A E. T. Andrews
260A T. T. Moore

27A G. W. McCrae
28A S. A. Wurzburger
29A T. G. Gibson
30A E. T. Jones

31A S. Sanders II
32A J. W. Ball

Group III-A ‘J. E. Neill, 38
Vice Chairman

33A C. J. Longacre
34A S. Mosovich
35A K. P. Willard
36A G. W. Harrison
37A D. R. Moore
38A E. Williams
39A H. P. Avery

22

 

Group IV-A
Vice Chairman
40A T. E. Bruce, Jr.
41A R. C. Peery

R. G. Browning, ’42

42A N. H. Brower

43A&L J. F. Ellis, Jr.

44A&L G. T. Wood

45A&L C. C. Steff II

46A&L D.S. Hillman

47A&L W. G. Merrin

48A H. R. Gates

49A E. S. Epley

Group V-A R. S. Griffith, ’52

Vice Chairman

50A R. U. Goodman
SIA J. E. Moyler, Jr.
52A W. G. Fuqua

53A J. W. McClintock III
54A F. A. Parsons

55A W. C. Jones III

56A W. W. Dixon

57A S. M. Ehudin

58A V. W. Holleman, Jr.
59A C. D. Hurt, Jr.

Group VI-A R. C. Vaughan III, ’66
Vice Chairman

60A W. W. Schaefer
61A J. H. Allen, Jr.
62A P. A. Agelasto III
63A E.R. Albert ITI
64A W. A. Noell, Jr.
65A J. F. Williams ITI
66A J. H. Framptom
67A ‘J. G.B. Ewing III

68A W. F. Stone, Jr.

69A J. E. Brown

Group VII-A R. D. LaRue, ’72
Vice Chairman

70A J. W. Thomas III
71A H. Nottberg III
72A R. M. Turnbull
73A G. A. Frierson II
74A M. Guroian

7T5A B. H. Turnbull
76A K. P. Ruscio

77A E. T. Atwood III

LAW CLASSES

Group I-L W. C. Washburn, ’40
Vice Chairman

17L G. Ottenheimer
21L J. E. Moyler

22L G. W. Taliaferro
23L W. W. Ogden
24L C. A. Tutwiler
25L W. A. McRitchie
26L R. O. Bentley, Jr.
27L C. T. Smith

Group II-L
Vice Chairman

28L No Agent
29L S.C. Strite

J. N. Harman ITI, ’40L

 

ANNUAL FUND PROGRESS

Hough, ’59, Is Chairman; 63 Percent of Goal Reached

30L L. H. Davis
31L M. M. Weinberg
32L =‘ J. S. Shields
33L F. R. Bigham
34L R. D. Bailey
35L J. H. Glover
36L C. B. Cross, Jr.
37L J. L. Arnold
38L S. A. Martin
39L = J. D. Goodin
40L W. F. Saunders
41L C. F. Heiner
42L C. F. Bagley, Jr.
Group ITI-L W. M. Anderson, ’52L

Vice Chairman

48L C. R. Allen
49L W. D. Bain, Jr.
50L W. J. Ledbetter

51L G. L. Kostel

52L J. L. Kiser

53L R. L. Banse

54L D. R. Klenk

55L R. W. Hudgins

56L M. T. Herndon

57L O. P. Pollard

58L R. G. McCullough
59L O. A. Neff

Group IV-L H. Angel, ’66L

Vice Chairman

60L I. N. Smith, Jr.
61L W. F. Ford
62L T. L. Feazell

63L T. G. Ireland

64L R. L. Lawrence

65L F. A. Sutherland, Jr.

66L C. G. Johnson

67L W. R. Reynolds

68L L. A. Paterno, Jr.

69L D. D. Redmond

Group V-L M. H. Squires, ’73L

Vice Chairman

70L B. B. Cummings, Jr.
71L  W.J. Borda
72L S. M. Hurtt
73L J. C. Moore

74L ~—sJ. S. Kline

75L A. Didier Lloyd
76L F. L. Duemmler
77L R. L. Hewit

Telethon Vice Chairman:
L. G. Miller, ’45

Current Parents Area Chairmen:

Area I G. F. Carroll

Area II F. N. Godin

Area III T. J. Black

Area IV C. C. McGehee
Area V F. W. Rogers, Jr.
Area VI C. H. Hamilton
Area VII A. R. Drennen, Jr.
Area VIII G. C. Tucker
Area IX J. Shaver, Jr.

 

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Why not a WESL rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$75.00 f.0o.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$60.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:

Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and_ telephone
number.

 

 

1922

Dr. Harry Lyons, an eminent man in the field
of dental education in America and dean emeri-
tus of the School of Dentistry at Virginia Com-
monwealth University, has been appointed to
the Board of Governors of Tel Aviv University
in Israel.

SAMUEL L. SANDERSON, a retired teacher now
living in Natural Bridge Station, Va., is prepar-
ing a philosophical-historical study to be pub-
lished soon.

1926

Epwin A. Morris, chairman of the board of
Blue Bell Inc., was recently given special recog-
nition at a dinner sponsored by the American
Apparel Education Foundation, Inc. The
ceremony was held at the Hyatt Regency Hotel
in Atlanta and honored Morris’s work in making
Blue Bell one of the world’s largest and most
successful apparel manufacturing organiza-
tions. Morris joined Blue Bell in 1938 as plant
manager, was elected vice president and a di-
rector in 1940, executive vice president in 1941,
and president and chief executive officer in
1947. In 1966 he was named chairman of the
board. During his 40 year association with Blue
Bell, Morris has been a strong influence on the
entire apparel industry.

1929

After 38 years of practice, Dr. CHARLES V.
AMOLE has retired as a general surgeon. He and
his wife live in Petersburg, Va.

Dr. Roya B. EMBREE will teach educational
psychology part time for one year at the Uni-
versity of Texas before his full retirement in

1979.

1930

CHARLES W. COCKE, immediate past president
of the State Federation of Chapters, National
Association of Retired Federal Employees, is
still active on the executive board and is also the
deputy field officer, District 2, responsible for
organizing local chapters.

1932

Co.ias G. Harris, who has retired from gov-
ernment service, is battling to preserve open
undeveloped land and forests. Harris and his
sons Own approximately 31 acres near Great
Falls, Va. They have a small vegetable garden
and the rest is open for animal and bird life.
Harris says it is not housing expansion he fights,
but “irresponsible land development.” Harris
joined the National Archives in 1934 and in
1941 President Roosevelt appointed him to a
committee of the National Resources Planning
Board. After the attack on Pearl Harbor, Harris

o

 

was responsible for finding a safe place to store
the Constitution of the United States and the
Declaration of Independence. During World
War II he served with the U.S. Air Force. Since
retirement Harris has been chairman of the
Board of Equalization of Rural Property As-
sessment. He is a member of the Council of
Governments Land Use Committee as well as
other environmental councils and _ citizens
groups.

Dr. I. F. Hupson, a retired physician and im-
mediate past mayor of Stamford, Texas, is cur-
rently president of the Stamford Art Founda-
tion.

The family of SHERWoop W. WISE is an all-
W&cL family. His son Joseph, ’74L, is associated
with Wise in his law firm, Wise, Carter, Child,
Steen & Caraway in Jackson, Miss. Another son,
Robert, is a second year law student at W&L and
Sherwood Jr., 63, is a professor of geology at
Florida State University. The Wises are also
proud of their five grandchildren, who just may
be W&L-bound.
1934

RICHARD W. GRAFTON is a partner in Grafton-
Sharpe Insurance Consultants in Fort Myers,
Fla. Grafton has worked almost 45 years in the
insurance industry. He is the recipient of many
professional awards, including the National
Quality Award, and holds the CLU designation.

SHERWOOD W. WISE (See 1932.)

1935

E. W. CHAPPELL JR. of Signal Mountain, Tenn.,
is serving on the board of directors of the Geor-
gia-Tennessee Regional Health Commission.
He is also a member of the energy subcommit-
tee of the Greater Chattanooga Area Chamber
of Commerce.

1936

WALTER LAWTON Is associated with the Personal
Achievement Institute, Inc., located in Pleas-
antville, N.Y. The firm is engaged in the per-
sonnel evaluation and development field. He
and his wife have three children.

Dr. KENNETH G. MACDONALD SR. is active in the
practice of general surgery in Charleston, W.
Va. He and his wife, Ellen, enjoy trips on their
river cruiser.

Puivip H. MILNER retired in November, 1977,
after 43 years with Manufacturers Hanover
Trust Co. He was executive vice president in
charge of the bank’s extensive New York City
branches when he retired. Milner and his wife,
Marcia, plan to spend winter months in Key
Largo, Fla., and the rest of the year in Weeka-
paug, R. I.

24

After 30 years in federal service, B. A. THIRKIELD
has retired and is looking forward to living in

Vermont.
1938

POWELL G ass JR. has retired as president of
Carter Glass & Sons, Publishers, Inc. and pub-
lisher of The News and The Daily Advance of
Lynchburg, Va. He will remain as a director of
the corporation. Glass is treasurer of the Vir-
ginia Press Association and has also served on
the National Newspaper Association’s Public
Notice Subcommittee. He is a member of the
International Newspaper Promotion Associa-
tion, the American Newspaper Publishers As-
sociation, the Southern Newspaper Publishers
Association and the American Press Institute.
Long active in civic affairs, Glass is on the boards
of United Way of Central Virginia, the Greater
Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce, the Lynch-
burg Chapter of the American Cancer Society
and the American Federation of Small Busi-
ness.

1939

Ropney L. ODELL, a radio amateur for 45 years,
has been named communications officer of Di-
vision VII, Third District Southern, U.S. Coast
Guard Auxiliary. He is a member of the flotilla
at Barnegat Light Coast Guard Station and
spends much time on volunteer patrol in his 30
foot Fales motorsailer. Odell is also the editor of
the Daily Advance in Dover, N.J.

Dr. EDGAR F. SHANNON Jr., former president of
the University of Virginia and a current member
of W&L’s Board of Trustees, received the Jack-

 

Robert C. Petrey, 41

son Davis Award from the Virginia Conference
of the American Association of University Pro-
fessors at ceremonies in Fredericksburg, Va., in
early November.

194]

ROBERT C. PeTrey has been elected a vice presi-
dent of Eastman Kodak Co. and an assistant
general manager of the Eastman Chemicals Di-
vision. Petrey was vice president and assistant
works manager of Tennessee Eastman Co. He
joined Tennessee Eastman as a chemical engi-
neer in the acid division and following assign-
ments of increasing responsibility, became sup-
erintendent of the acid division. He later became
assistant general superintendent, then general
superintendent. Petrey is a registered profes-
sional engineer in Tennessee and is a member
of the American Institute of Chemical Engineers
and the American Association for Textile
Technology. He has been active in the Kingsport
Community Chest and is a past president of the
Lions Club and a former member of the execu-
tive committee of the Sequoyah Council, Boy
Scouts of America.

1943

GRANT E. Mouser III is assigned to the Armed
Forces Staff College as political advisor (De-
partment of State Representative) to the Com-
mandant, Gen. Gordon Hill.

1944

Dr. JOHN RUNYAN, a medical pioneer in Mem-
phis, Tenn., has been selected to receive a 1977

 

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-
Laws of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
the names and addresses of the Nominating
Committee for 1977-78 are listed here:

Chairman

Rodger P. Doyle, 58

President

First National Bank of Brunswick, Ga.
Brunswick, Georgia 31520

Charles C. Stieff II, ’45
Executive Vice-President
Stieff Company

800 Wyman Park Drive
Baltimore, Maryland 21211

Benton M. Wakefield Jr., ’41
President

First Bank & Trust Co.
South Bend, Indiana 46634

 

NAME YOUR CANDIDATE

The committee is now receiving the
names of candidates to fill three seats on the
Alumni Board of Directors and one vacancy
on the University Committee on Intercol-
legiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the
Alumni Association may submit names of
alumni to the Nominating Committee for
nomination for the offices to be filled.
Alumni may send names directly to any
member of the committee or to the
committee through the office of the Execu-
tive Secretary of the Alumni Association at
the University.

The committee will close its report on
March 17, 1978, and present its nomina-
tions to the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association on May 13, 1978.

 

 

 

 

Rockefeller Public Service Award for his out-
standing work in the area of “promotion of
health, improved delivery of health services,
and control of health costs.” The award was
made by William G. Bowen, president of
Princeton University. The nationally-known
awards program is sponsored by John D.
Rockefeller III and administered by Prince-
ton’s Woodrow Wilson School of Public and
International Affairs. Runyan is chairman of
the Department of Community Medicine and a
director of health care sciences at the University
of Tennessee College of Medicine. He is being
honored for the development and expansion of
a low-cost health care delivery system which
successfully used non-physician health care
professionals to care for a significant portion of
Memphis’ population. Runyan’s model program
has demonstrated that decentralized care close
to a patient’s home does not necessarily increase
the costs to the patient and can improve the
health of those treated. His program has become
a prototype for the Robert Wood Foundation’s
1977 Municipal Health Service Program which
will allocate $1 million to expand services offered
by public health programs.

1948

Howarop M. FENDER is running for eléction as
district judge in Fort Worth, Texas.

rh

CHARLES McCDowELL, a columnist for the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch, received a second place
award for his column from the Virginia Press
Association in its 1977 Writing and Photo-
graphy Awards Competition.

GRANT E. Mouser III (See 1943.)

1949

Epwarp P. BERLIN JR. has won a first place
award in the editorial category of the Virginia
Press Association’s 1977 Writing and Photo-
graphy Awards Competition for his editorials
in the Waynesboro News-Virginian.

THomas R. Grass has been elected president of
Carter Glass & Sons, Publishers, Inc. The firm
publishes The News and The Daily Advance, news-
papers in Lynchburg, Va. The action was taken
following the retirement of Powell Glass Jr. ’38.
Glass has been active at the newspapers for more
than 25 years and has been an officer and direc-
tor since December 1957. He was appointed co-
publisher in 1955. He has held various other
posts with local newspapers and worked one
year in Houston, Texas, on the Chronicle. Glass
served with the U.S. Air Force from 1951-1953.
He is a member of the Virginia Press Associa-
tion, the American Newspaper Publishers As-
sociation and the Southern Newspaper Pub-
lishers Association. Glass is a member of the
board of directors of Fidelity American Bank
and a member of the board of trustees of

ALUMNI INVITED

to
FANCY DRESS 1978
February 24

Duke Ellington Orchestra
$15 in advance

Write or call the Student Activities Board,
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.,
24450, 703-463-9111, ext. 381, for reservations.
Only reserved tickets will be sold at the door.

Lynchburg College. He served as a member of
the House of Delegates from 1958-1966. While
a member of the legislature, he served as a
member of the powerful Appropriations Com-
mittee and the House Education Committee.
Since 1969, Glass has represented the Lynch-
burg district on the Virginia Highway and
Transportation Commission, of which he is a
senior member and secretary. He presently
serves on the board of directors of the Greater
Lynchburg Chamber of Commerce, is active in
many civic affairs and has served on numerous
boards and committees in the Lynchburg area.
In 1956 Glass received the Lynchburg Junior
Chamber of Commerce Distinguished Service
Award and in 1964 was named one of the out-
standing young men in America in “Who’s
Who.”

F. DONALD HARRISON is senior vice president,
secretary and general manager of Fred S. James
& Co., a national insurance brokerage firm. He
and his wife, Margaret, have two sons. The fam-
ily lives in Dallas, Texas.

CHARLES H. LAuckx JR., a high school mathema-
tics teacher in Lexington, Va., was made a hon-
orary member of the Rotary Club in recogni-
tion of his 10 years of service as a school advisor
to the Interact Club, a high school club for boys
sponsored by the high school and the Rotary
Club.

After nineteen years with Sandia Laboratory,
Harry A. SCHULTZ JR. is now an agent with
Prudential Insurance Co. He is based in Albu-
querque, N.M.

1950

Dr. W. JAMES GARDNER III, a surgeon in Ogden,
Utah, has been chosen president-elect of the
Utah State Medical Association. He had been

 

serving as secretary of the Association. The
election took place at the annual convention.

1952

RICHARD G. BALLARD has been named director
of development at Roland Park Country School
in Baltimore, Md. He was formerly executive
director of the Commission on Kidney Disease
and the Arthritis Foundation.

Dr. ROBERT MASLANSKY is chairman of medical
education at Cook County (Chicago) Hospital.
He expects to have a collection of verse published
in 1978 by Harcourt Brace Inc.

JULIAN B. Monr, president of Momar, Inc., in
Atlanta, Ga., is also a managing partner of a
syndicate which handles the breeding and racing
of thoroughbred horses. The broodmare farm
is located in Ocala, Fla. The syndicate has had
winning horses at Florida, New York and New
Jersey area race tracks during the past season.

Henry I. WILLETT JR. was honored by the fac-
ulty, staff and board of visitors at a reception
marking his 10th year as president of Longwood
College.

1953

Dr. JOHN I. BOWMAN JR., an oral surgeon in
Virginia Beach, Va., has been appointed to the
Eastern Virginia Medical Authority. Bowman
has been active in many civic organizations. He
has served terms on the State Hospital Board
and the credentials committee of the Depart-
ment of Dentistry at the General Hospital of
Virginia Beach. He also was chairman of the
dentistry department and is a past president of
the Virginia Society of Oral and Moxillofacial
Surgeons.

Dr. THOMAS KYLE CRESON JR., is practicing

 

Lexington, Virginia 24450.

and Lee Sports Information Office.

Name

eneral Lee® Speaking

GeneralLee Speaking, the W&L athletic newsletter published monthly September through
June, is available free of charge to General supporters everywhere. All you have to do is fill
out the form below and mail it to Sports Information Office, Washington and Lee University,

Of course, if you would like to make a contribution to help defray the costs of printing and
mailing, you may send your gift to the same address. Make checks payable to Washington

 

Address

 

City

 

State

 

 

  

J. W. Stackhouse, 35

medicine and hematology in Memphis, Tenn.
He is the former chairman of the Republican
Party in Memphis and Shelby County.

JOHN A. WILLIAMSON II, president of California
Plan, Inc. in Santa Clara, Calif., has announced
the opening of a new financial service division,
California Consumer Plan, Inc.

1954

PAUL MASLANSky is producer of a three-part
TV special on the life of Dr. Martin Luther
King. It should be shown on NBC next spring.

1955

JOHN W. (JACK) STACKHOUSE has been named
manager of the marketing department at Trust
Company Bank in Atlanta, Ga. He is also a
senior vice president of the bank and formerly
was head of the bank’s Retail Banking Adminis-
tration group. Stackhouse joined Trust Com-
pany in 1958, was elected a commercial officer
in 1961, named second vice president in 1964,
and vice president three years later. He was
promoted to senior vice president in 1972.

1956

TREVOR ARMBRISTER, author of several books,
is currently on leave from his Washington job
with Reader’s Digest to write a book about
President Gerald Ford. The memoir manuscript
will be completed in January, 1979.

WILLIAM C. NORMAN JR., a member of the
executive council of the Arkansas Bankers As-
sociation, is completing a term as director of the
Arkansas State Chamber of Commerce. He was
recently appointed to the Development Council
of the University of Arkansas for Medical
Sciences. Norman is completing a term as ves-
tryman of St. Marks Episcopal Church and
serves as president of the Crossett Rotary Club.

JOHN A. WILLIAMSON II (See 1953.)

1957
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. WELLFORD JR., a
son, John L. III, on July 3, in Chicago. The
Wellfords also have a daughter, Angie Gill, and
live in North Palm Beach, Fla.

After serving as U.S. Attorney for the eastern
district of Pennsylvania, RoBerT E. J. CURRAN
has resumed his private practice in law with the
Media, Pa., firm of Kassah, Cherry, Curran and
Archbold.

1960

JOHN T. CRONE V was one of the speakers at an
international real estate conference sponsored
by the World Trade Institute. The conference
took place in Frankfurt, Germany, at the end of

26

May and was entitled “Co-Partnership and Co-
operation: German Investment in U.S. Real Es-
tate.” After graduation Crone received a Dipl.
Engr. from Edinburgh University. For six years
he held various positions with two companies
which arranged purchasing and financing of
equipment delivery and construction for large
international projects. Since 1968 his work ex-
perience has been real estate oriented. Crone is
vice president of Lomas & Nettleton Realty,
Inc., a Dallas firm, which acts as real estate
investment advisors and counselors. He and his
wife, Kate, have two children.

1961

WALTER J. CRATER JR. is a senior systems engi-

neer with Systems Consultants, Inc. of Wash-
ington, D.C. His specialty is electronic warfare.
He is also engaged in real estate in Washington,
D.C., and suburban Virginia.

1962

Harry G. BALLANCE, a captain with Delta Air
Lines, is serving in the flight training depart-
ment as a Boeing 727 flight instructor and check
pilot. He and his wife, Carol, have four children
and the family lives in Atlanta.

Dr. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY practices pediatrics in
Fishkill, N.Y. He is also a member of the Dut-
chess County Board of Health. Chernay also
breeds thoroughbred horses.

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70, Smith, Robinson &
Vinyard, 117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210
Atlanta—Charles Jones, 66, Gering & Jones, CPA’s, Lenox
Towers, Suite 1748, 3390 Peachtree Rd., N.E., Atlanta, Ga.
30326

Augusta-Rockingham—Ross V. Hersey, ’40, 1060 Lyndhurst
Rd., Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—John A. Wolf, ’69, ’°72L, Ober, Grimes & Shriver,
1600 Md. Natl. Bank Bldg., Baltimore, Md. 21202
Birmingham—John W. Poynor, °62, 10 Pine Crest Rd.,
Birmingham, Ala. 35223

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., °57, Sun First Natl.
Bank of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897
Charleston—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, ’68L, 710 Commerce
Square, Charleston, W. Va. 25301

Charlotte—Alan W. Lee, ’69, 127 Renwick Rd., Charlotte, N.C.
28211

Charlottesville—H. Dan Winter III, ’69, Route 1, Box 4
Fairgrove, Earlysville, Va. 22936

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, ’72L, 111 Maclellan
Bldg., 721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’65L, Winston and Strawn,
One First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60670
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—John B. Hoke Jr., ‘60, Box 825,
Martinsburg, W. Va. 25401

Dallas—Edward F. Halsell Jr., 59, 4223 Shenandoah, Dallas,
Texas 75205

Delaware—S. Maynard Turk, ’52L, Hercules, Inc., Patent
Dept., 910 Market St., Wilmington, Del. 19899

DelMarVa— Ernest I. Cornbrooks III, 67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisbury, Md. 21801

Eastern North Carolina—E. B. Vaden Jr., ’69,
Turnbridge Dr., Raleigh, N.C. 27609

Florida West Coast—George Harvey Jr., 63, WFLA-TV, 905
Jackson St., Tampa, Fla. 33601

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas
76102

Gulf Stream—A. J. Barranco, 64, Suite 310, Concord Bldg., 66
West Flagler St., Miami, Fla. 33130

Houston—Robert I. Peeples, °57, 953 Esperson Bldg.,
Houston, Texas 77002

Jacksonville—Donald B. Cartwright, ’72, 1710 Mayview Rd.,
Jacksonville, Fla. 32210

Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, ’71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock—William C. Norman Jr., 56, P.O. Drawer 597,
Crossett, Ark. 71635

Long Island—Jeff Wexler, 69, The Oceanside Beacon, Box
126, Oceanside, N.Y. 11572

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., ’70, 222 S. Birchwood
Ave., Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—Roger Fauber, ’63, Fidelity Natl. Bank, 9th &
Main Sts., Lynchburg, Va. 24505

Mid-South—Jody Brown, ’65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Braid Electric Co.,

3519

1100 Demonbrun Viaduct, Nashville, Tenn. 37215
Mobile—Harvey E. Jones Jr., 64, 1215 Selma St., Mobile, Ala.
36604

Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, 72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass. 02149

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, 68, 1208 Pine St., New
Orleans, La. 70118

New York—John M. Ellis, 56, 155 W. 81st St., New York, N.Y.
10024

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, 61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, ’66, 219 Couch Dr.,
Oklahoma City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, ’63, 2910
Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm Beach, Fla. 33401

Palmetto—T. Patton Adams IV, ’65, Graydon, Suber & Adams,
1225 Washington St., Columbia, S.C. 29201
Peninsula—Benjamin A. Williams, ’71, 134 Hampton Roads
Ave., Hampton, Va. 23661

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, 3985 Piedmont Rd.,
Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—John E. Kelly III, 66, ’69L, 250 Quince St.,
Philadelphia, Pa. 19107

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, ’73, Wachovia Bank & Trust
Co., Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104
Richmond—Robert M. Turnbull, ’72, 301-A N. Hamilton St.,
Richmond, Va. 23221

Roanoke— William L. Andrews III, ’72, 430 Canterbury Lane,
Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington,
Va. 24450

San Antonio—Ralph E. Lehr Jr., °73, 10 Elmcourt, San
Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Andrew N. Baur, ’66, 20 Foxboro, St. Louis, Mo.
63124

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin T. Fleishman, 741, P.O.
Drawer 4106, Anderson, S.C. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, 53, Box 1762,
Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Thomas P. Winborne, 751, °53L, 3510 Arnold
Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr.,’54, ’60L, Vansant 8&8
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531
Tidewater—Richard C. Burroughs, ’68, 409 Yarmouth St.,
Norfolk, Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, ’69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25719

Tulsa—Dan W. Higgins Jr., 69, 1200 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa,
Okla. 74103

Upper Potomac— Albert D. Darby, 43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, ’70, Arthur Andersen &
Co., 1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail,
Abilene, Texas 79605

 

odd

W. G. Faulk Jr., ’68 Lee Millar, ’71

1963

ROBERT C. BRowneE holds a civilian position with
the Department of the Army. He isa salary and
wage specialist working as a position classifier in
the Pentagon. Browne, his wife, Donna, and
children live in Fairfax, Va.

C. VANCE CAMPBELL JR. works as an investment
advisor in the oil and gas business in Dallas,
where he, his wife, and two children reside.
Campbell is studying French and collecting
oriental ceramics and art in his spare time.

E. PHitrp McCCALEB was appointed to the Re-
gional Advisory Council for Migrant and Sea-
sonal Farm Workers for the Commonwealth of
Virginia. As a volunteer assistant coach for
Painter Central High School, he has helped lead
the team to seven championships and only two
losing seasons in 14 years.

1964

JOHN D. Eure Jr. lives in Suffolk, Va., where he
is in the private practice of law.

1965 4%

JOSEPH A. TVEDT JR. is practicing law with the
City Prosecutor’s Office in Phoenix, Ariz.

1966

MARRIAGE: RAYMOND H. VIZETHANN JR. and
Marjorie VanVoorhis on Aug. 20, 1977, at St.
Simons, Ga. Vizethann is an attorney in Atlanta
with the firm of Greene, Buckley, DeRieux &
Jones.

‘THOMAS J. CARPENTER was appointed director
of cost analysis for the National Bus Traffic
Association in Washington on Oct. 31. Carpen-
ter, his wife and two children live in Herndon,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarbp E. (NED) BATES
Jr., a daughter, Elizabeth Tyler, on Aug. 16,
1977. Bates is an attorney in Atlanta, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J.G. BLAINE Ewinc III, a
son, James G. B. IV, on June 4, 1977. The
family lives in Charleston, S.C., where Ewing is
a regional associate for the Strategic Planning
Institute.

1968

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP C. THOMPSON, a
daughter, Kathryn Adair, on Oct. 27, 1977.
Thompson is an attorney in Atlanta, Ga.

W. GILBERT FAULK JR., formerly house counsel
and labor relations manager, has been named
vice president, legal, for Dow Jones & Co., Inc.
Faulk joined Dow Jones in 1968 as labor rela-
tions attorney. He was named labor relations

     

manager and house counsel in 1970. He is mar-
ried to the former Patricia Rooney and the
couple has two children. The family lives in
Yardley, Pa.

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. OweEN Perry III, a
second daughter, Elizabeth O’Brien, on July 30,
1977. Perry is with the Southland Timber Co. in
Augusta, Ga.

ALAN P. MarIAN is employed as a house counsel
with The Home Insurance Co. in Philadelphia.
An article he wrote on the Civil War will be
published soon in a national history periodical.
In his spare time, he is doing studio recording
with a rock group.

Britt McCKELway, a reporter for the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, received a second place award
for his series “My Virginia” in the Virginia Press
Association’s 1977 Writing and Photography
Awards Competition.

1971]

MARRIAGE: Henry A. HarRKEy and Catherine
Ward in Charlotte, N.C., on Aug. 6, 1977.

RAYMOND D. Coares Jr. and his brother B.
RANDALL COATES, ’72, are assistant state’s attor-
neys for Worcester County, Md.

DouGLas GOSsMANN is co-owner of the Great
Midwestern Music Hall in Louisville, Ky., and
books the club’s entertainment. In spite of the
depressed trend in nightclub entertainment,
Gossmann is doing well with the listening-club
concept. He intends to continue his “concerts”
one to three times a month, offering a variety of
musical styles. Gossmann feels that the club
could become a showcase for up-and-coming
entertainers as well as the big-name groups. He
shares the credit for the Great Midwestern’s
development with Harlan Brewer, a member of
the Kessler’s Friends, a popular local band that
frequently performs at the club.

Dr. HuGu F. Hic III isin his second year of law
school at the University of Virginia and works
part time in hospital emergency rooms.

Lr. GorpDON S. MACRAE is stationed at Fort
Huachuca, Ariz., where he is a Russian advisor.

JOHN S. MCMILLAN is now with the department
of athletics at Southfield School in Shreveport,
La. He is an assistant coach in varsity football,
head varsity coach for girls basketball and head
track coach. He teaches mathematics and senior
economics courses.

LEE MILxar has established a remarkable soccer
coaching career. As a captain in the Army in
Monterey, Calif., he organized and is player/
coach of a team for the Defense Language In-

stitute with a three-year record of 56-25-11.
Coupled with a 38-9-1 record at Germantown
High School in Tennessee where his team won a
state championship, his teams have won 100
games in just five years of coaching. Millar plans
to play semi-pro soccer in California following
his release from service and hopes to find a
coaching job.

ALBERT MARCELLUS ORGAIN IV has been elected
to the board of trustees at Randolph-Macon
Academy, his preparatory school in Front
Royal, Va. He is associated with a law firm in
Richmond where he lives with his wife and son.

R. BALFOUR SARTOR completed his residency in
internal medicine at Baylor College of Medicine
in Houston in December. He plans to begin a
gastroenterology fellowship at the University of
North Carolina in July, 1978. He and his wife
have a son, Ryan, who is two years old and a
daughter, Emily Paxton, born Oct. 4, 1977. The
family lives in Bellaire, Texas.

J. CONNOR SMITH is a lieutenant in the Navy
Medical Corps. He is stationed in Brunswick,
Maine, as a flight surgeon for Patrol Squadron
10.

HO.uis TAGGarT has returned to New Orleans
after a year in Seelisberg, Switzerland, where he
did research on “consciousness” at the Ma-
harishi European University.

Puiuip C. THOMPSON (See 1968.)

1972

THOMAS G. KEEFE has been promoted to assis-
tant to the president of Newport News Indus-
tries, a subsidiary of Tenneco, with responsibility
for corporate acquisitions. He and his wife,
Dawn, live in Newport News.

B. RANDALL CoarEs (See 1971.)

1973

Lat W. Purser III is owner and operator of Lat
Purser & Associates, Inc., an industrial and
commercial real estate development firm in
Charlotte, N.C.

1974

MARRIAGE: R. LEIGH FRACKELTON JR. and
Justin Cecilia Derieux of Richmond on July 9,
1977. Among the wedding party were: Douglas
C. Long, ’74, Bruce W. Hayden, 74, and Gerald
Costello Jr., *74. A member of the Virginia Bar,
Frackelton is now at the College of William &
Mary pursuing a masters of law degree in taxa-
tion.

Rick McCain will receive his medical degree
from the Medical University of South Carolina

27

this June. He has been accepted for a clinical
clerkship in neurology at the Institute of Neu-
rology at Queen’s Square, London.

ANDY WRIGHT, a reporter for the Roanoke Times
won a first place award in the general news
catagory of the Virginia Press Association’s 1977
Writing and Photography Awards Competition.

1975

RICHARD P. ROGERS JR., reporter-photographer
for the Page News & Courier, won first and second
place awards for photographs in two different
categories for weekly papers in the Virginia
Press Association’s Writing and Photography
Awards Competition. He will receive the awards
at the VPA banquet in Richmond.

1976
MARRIAGE; Hiram E ty III and DEBORAH A.
JOHNSON, ’77, on Oct. 22, 1977, in Louisville,
Ky. Ely is an attorney with the firm of Ewen,
MacKenzie & Peden.

RoBert M. BENDER, while awaiting entry into
medical school, is studying organic chemistry
and psychology at Fairfield University in Fair-
field, Conn.

MICHAEL M. CuHrRISTOVICH has been named to
the Law Review at Tulane University, where he
is a member of the second year law class.

Joun B. KEEFE is working with the Master
Charge division of Bank of Virginia in Rich-
mond.

1977

Davip A. AUSTIN spent the summer backpack-
ing in Europe. In January, he entered graduate
school in telecommunications at Indiana Uni-
versity, where he has a teaching fellowship in
economics.

JAMEs R. Brooks will travel in Europe until
mid-February when he starts work for Bryant &
Shaw Ltd. in London as an agent to Lloyds of
London.

E. BRUCE HARVEY Jr. is a student at the Presby-
terian School of Christian Education in Rich-
mond, Va.

Lr. THomas C. GREENWooD, USMC, successfully
completed the Marine Corps Reserve Mara-
thon on Nov. 6 in Washington, D.C. The AAU
certified race serves as a qualifier for the Boston
Marathon and runners from throughout the
nation, as well as from several foreign countries,
participated.

DEBORAH A. JOHNSON (See 1976.)

28

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1910

Orpua A. CHIDESTER of Pauma Valley, Calif., a
surveyor with San Diego County, died Sept. 3,
1976. After graduation Chidester was a govern-
ment translator in Washington. He served with
the U.S. Army in France and Italy during World
War I. He was an executive with Westinghouse
Electric Corp. in Pittsburgh before going to
California.

1919

THOMAS JEFFERSON STERLING, a long-time resi-
dent and businessman in Norfolk, Va., died
May 7, 1977.

1924

ALBERT S. YANCEY JR., retired owner of Yancey
Motor Company and Yancey Bark and Lumber
Co. of Charlottesville, Va., died October 30,
1977. The Yancey Bark & Lumber Co. was en-
gaged in pulp wood operations. Mr. Yancey was
a charter member of the First United Methodist
Church and a charter member of the Char-
lottesville Lions Club.

1926

LANDON E. SMITH, a partner in the architect and
engineering firm of Smithey & Boynton of Roa-
noke, Va., died Aug. 10, 1977. Smith was a
member of the American Institute of Architects,
National Society of Professional Engineers and
a trustee of Windsor Hill Methodist Church.

1928

ROLAND CLEMANS WHITE, an investment officer
with the Harris Trust & Savings Bank of Chic-
ago, Illinois, died July 8, 1977. He had been a
member of the St. Paul Union Church in Chic-
ago since 1910.

1929

HARRISON FOSTER EDWarpbs, judge of the Ju-
venile Court and probate judge in Wilmington,
N.C., died in November, 1977. Edwards, who
had been in politics for over 20 years, had also
been clerk of the Superior Court of New Han-
over County. An amputee since 1936, he was
named “Most Outstanding Handicapped Citi-
zen in North Carolina” by the Governor in 1952.
In 1962 he was named “The Father of Wilming-
ton Soft Ball.” Edwards retired as Clerk of the
Superior Court in 1966.

1934

VICTOR FRANKLIN TUCKER, a retired executive
of Flintkote Co., died July 11, 1977. His home

was in Ambler, Pa. After graduation Tucker
secured a position with United Gas Improve-
ment Co. of Philadelphia and later joined the
sales department of McClosky Co., a national
manufacturer of varnish and varnish com-
pounds. During World War II he served in the
Navy. Following the war, he worked briefly with
Ginn & Co. and U.S. Gypsum Co. For over 25
years he was associated with Flintkote Co. and
became their general sales manager of the Atlas
Adhesive Division and finally sales manager of
their western division of the flooring and adhe-
sive division. After retiring from the Flintkote
Co. in 1976 he sold real estate in Philadelphia
suburbs.

194]

JOHN D. RayMonnD, vice president for New York
national advertising sales of the Newspaper
Advertising Bureau Inc., died November 4,
1977. Raymond had studied at Harvard and at
New York universities. He was a resident of
Tarrytown, N.Y.

1943

FRANCIS RISDON RUSSELL, who for more than 30
years was engaged in the communications field
as news director in radio and TV stations, as
newspaper editor and as manager of public re-
lations for atomic energy concerns, died Nov.
12, 1977, after a long illness. During his career
Russell was a newspaper columnist syndicated
to over 80 weekly newspapers covering the New
England and Middle Atlantic states. During
World War II he served with the U.S. Marine
Corps in the Pacific. Russell was an administra-
tor for the Lynchburg Fine Arts Center, man-
ager of the public relations department for
Babcock & Wilcox Corp. of Lynchburg and
news director for WLVA-TV in Lynchburg.
Russell was a member of the National Press
Club of Washington, D.C., and the Overseas
Press Club of New York City.

1944

CLIFTON Ropes Hoop, a prominent and long-
time planter in Hughes, Ark., died Nov. 11,
1977. Hood had farmed since 1946. At the time
of his death, he was largely retired. He was a
director of the Mid South Cancer Society and
the Mid South Alcohol and Drug Center,
both of Memphis, Tenn. His farming was done
under the name of Bruins Planting Co. During
World War II, Hood served with the U.S. Marine
Corps.

1967

WILLIAM N. McGEHEE III, a computer system
programs executive with both J. P. Stevens &
Co., Inc., of Charlotte, N.C., and Honeywell
Information Systems, Inc., of Raleigh, N.C.,
died May 29, 1977, in Mobile, Ala.

 

 

 

   

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

CL,

 

 

May
May
May
May
May
May

 

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

LACROSSE

4—Duke
11—Mt. Washington
20—Ohaio State
22—Towson State
25—North Carolina
29—Virginia Tech
12—Salisbury State
15—Delaware
22—Univ. of Virginia
26—North Carolina State
29—Washington College
3—Roanoke College
6—Rutgers
13—Hofstra
17—NCAA Quarterfinals
20—NCAA Semifinals
27—NCAA Championship

7
‘

TENNIS

6—Univ. of Rochester
14—James Madison

17-19—Cherry Blossom Festival

22—Univ. of N.C.
23—Univ. of Pittsburgh
24—George Washington
25—Univ. of Richmond
26—Hampton Institute
26—Christopher Newport
27—Michigan State
8—Davidson College
8—Old Dominion Univ.
10—Univ. of Alabama

Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
T.B.A.
T.B.A.
T.B.A.

HOME
Away
Away
Away

HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away

HOME

HOME

HOME
Away

 

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

May
May
May
May
May
May

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

May

11—Univ. of New Orleans
12—Tulane
13—Millsaps College
14—Jackson State
15—Georgia Tech
18—Virginia Tech
20—Hampden-Sydney
21-22—-ODAC Championships
24—-Georgetown
26— Univ. of Virginia
2—George Mason
4—Roanoke College
6—Randolph-Macon
10—Navy
13—Emory & Henry
17-20—NCAA Division III
Championships

BASEBALL

14—Hampden-Sydney
16—Mount Union
18—Eastern Mennonite
21—West Virginia Tech
23—Lynchburg
27—Virginian Wesleyan
28—V.M.I.
29—Lynchburg
18—Bridgewater
22—Randolph- Macon
24— Bridgewater
26—Emory & Henry
30—V.M.I.

6—Liberty Baptist

Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME

Away

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away

Away

Away

 

 

