 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Py
Ps
ny
7
e
‘
4
|
|
]
a
*

 

 

SEPTEMBER 1979

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 54, Number 6, September 1979

William C. Washburn, 40 ...............c cece eee ee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ..................6. Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ..............ccccceee eee Associate Editor
M. Gray Coleman, 79 ...............0cceeee ees Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter .........cccceceece eee ene ene eeees Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann. ............c ccc eccec eee ec ee eeeeeeneneees Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Class Agents Weekend ................:cccececeeeee ene es l
Henry Street Playhouse ................ccceceeeeneee ene 5
Unitrust Honors Gilliams .....................cccceee ees 10
WKL Gazette ..... cece ccc eee e ee ne eee enenaneeees 12
WL Books .......... ccc cece cee e ee ee eee eee eee eaeenennenes 16
Chapter NeWS ...........ccccccec ec eee cece eee eeeaeneneenenes 19
Class NOtes .........ccccecc ese e neces eect ene ea eee eneenennes 22
In MeMoriam ............ccccc cece cece e teen eee e eee e ees 27
Tale of the Thoms ................cccccceceeeeeeeeeeeneeees 28
Gifts from W&L 0.0... cece cece eee n cece ne enenene enone 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
President

RICHARD A. DENNY, 52, Atlanta, Ga.
Vice President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD BAIN, 49, Spartanburg, S. C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.
PuiLip R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.

JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.

G. RUSSELL LADD, 57, Mobile, Ala.
JoHN H. McCorMACkx Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

el
or

ON THE COVER: In the foreground Washington and
Lee admissions materials and alumni publications, a
name tag, glasses, a mechanical pencil, a briefcase; in
the background Alumni Admissions Program
representative Donald T. McMillan, ’72, of New York
City—all attest to a busy weekend in September that
brought Class Agents and admissions representatives
to the campus for workshops and _ fellowship.
Background information and more pictures begin on
the dpposite page. Photograph by Sally Mann.

 

 

 

 

 

The first in the annual series of :
important alumni weekends took place
Sept. 21-22, when 35 class agents, the
Annual Fund chairman, and eight of his
vice chairmen gathered on campus for two
days of work—with a healthy measure of
fun as well. The occasion was Class Agents’
Weekend, a fall tradition since 1972—and
the overwhelming verdict, as in years past,
was that it was a great success.

Also present for the program were
several dozen members of the Alumni
Admissions Program, an alumni activity
which has emerged with increasing
importance in recent years. Graduates in
this group met to discuss trends in W&L’s
admissions strategy and had abundant
opportunity to speak with William Hartog,
currently in his second year as director of
admissions.

All involved in the programs were kept
busy the entire time, from cocktails at the
Lee House to the W&L Generals’ first
home football game on Wilson Field. (The
presence of such devoted alumni certainly
played a part in the outcome of the game,
a rousing victory over Centre College.)

But the focal point of the weekend was the

 

Saturday morning workshop, held in the
various classrooms of Lewis Hall.

James W. McClintock III, new
chairman of the Annual Fund, opened the
session with a few important reminders.
Current budget figures show that 63
percent of W&L’s operating income comes
from tuition, with an additional 25 percent
from gifts of other kinds (endowment funds
are a major example). This leaves 12
percent which must be filled by annual
giving, McClintock said. “And any of you
who are in business know what a task it is
to fill a 12 percent margin,” he said. He
added that the Annual Fund should be
regarded as the necessary “edge of
excellence” for Washington and Lee and
announced the fund goal for 1979-80—
$1 million.

McClintock introduced President
Huntley, who also emphasized the
necessity of an energetic Annual Fund
campaign. “It is difficult to overstate the
importance of annual giving, the only
source of revenue that has expanded in the
past decade as a percentage of income in

 

by M. Gray Coleman, ’79

Assistant Director of Publications

Class Agents
Weekend, 79

Annual Fund Volunteers
Attend Campus Workshops,
Set Goal of $1 Million

for ‘Edge of Excellence’

Annual Fund Chairman James W. McClintock III,
‘53, (far center) and Director of Development Farris
P. Hotchkiss (standing right) lead discussion during
a general session of Class Agents in the Moot
Courtroom of Lewis Hall.

any significant way—and the only one to
outpace inflation.”

Huntley pointed to a study of some 30
private colleges in the east and south—all
comparable in size and philosophy to
W&L. He noted that W&L’s per-student
costs “place us at the low end . . . about
25th.” Equally encouraging is the
University's faculty salary level, he said:
“About fourth from the top.” Class agents
were also reminded of the tremendous
expansion that the campus has undergone
in the past 10 years. Floor space has been
doubled, and Lewis Hall alone has as
much space as the entire Colonnade.

“And any gaps we have experienced
during these projects has been filled
single-handedly by the Annual Fund,”
Huntley said. “Now we are assuming it
will continue to show its previous spread
over inflation.”

During the day, many individual ideas
were discussed, but one point ran
throughout the entire program: the Annual
Fund is, in many ways, the “bedrock” of
Washington and Lee’s future—and the key
to success is to increase both the dollar
figures and the current level of alumni
participation.

Class Agents’ Weekend

1. Overton P. Pollard, ’57L. 2. Annual Fund Vice
Chairman Herbert G. Jahncke, 30. 3. Assistant
Alumni Secretary Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, ’68,
Robert N. Fishburn, 55A, Robert A. Vinyard,
‘70L, Christopher J. Habenicht, *75L, and Vice
Chairman John E. Neill, ’38A. 4. Earl T. Jones,
°30A, makes a point at small-group session; behind
him are Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn, ‘40,
James A. Meriwether, "70A, Thomas E. Bruce,
"40A, and Stewart Epley, '49A. 5. Associate Direc-
tor of Development Carter McNeese talks with
Vice Chairman Milton T. Herndon, 56L. 6. Donald
S. Hillman, '46A, converses with President Hunt-
ley.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

 

Photographs by Sally Mann

 

“ll

7. In foreground are John B. Howard, ’57, and
Vice Chairman Charles D. Hurt, 59A. 8. W&L
Treasurer-Elect E. Stewart Epley, ’49A. 9. James
A. Meriwether, "70A, ponders a point. 10. Vice
Chairman Walter B. Potter, ’48A. 11. Stuart San-
ders, 31A. 12. Representing the oldest classes at
the meeting were Edwin B. Shultz, *16A, and
Rupert N. Latture, 15A.

12

 

 

Alumni Admissions
Representatives

13. Admissions Director William M. Hartog (right)
talks with Alumni Admissions Program participants
(left to right) John Folsom, ’73, Columbia; John
Scruggs, 77, Birmingham; Pete Williams, '79, ad-
missions counselor; Don McMillan, "72, New York;
Richard Middleton, ’73, 76L, Savannah; James D.
Farrar, 49, coordinator of the program; Dean of
Students Lewis G. John, 58; Lang Donkle, ’74,
Greenville, S. C.; David Braun, °76, Milwaukee.
14. In foreground at work are William Latture,
"49, Greensboro; Drake Leddy, ’71, San Antonio;
in background, Dean John; Ken Ruscio, '76, Syra-
cuse; Jay Passavant, ‘69, Pittsburgh; Mike Hall-
man, admissions counselor; Lat Purser, 73, Char-
lotte. 15. Assistant Admissions Director Danny
Murphy, 73; Ned Coslett, 70, Philadelphia; Steve
Fluharty, 73, Tampa. 16. Associate Admissions
Director Van Pate, ’71, in foreground; behind him
are J. Harvey Allen, 61, Dallas; Richard Burrough,
68, Norfolk.

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

ti

 

 

 

 

 

Text and Photographs
by W. Patrick Hinely, °73

Henry Street Playhouse II

Drama Company’s Second Season Adds Zest to Lexington’s Cultural Life

 

 

 

Summertime visitors to the W&L campus usually get
impressions of academic buildings lying dormant; a few
professors who happen to be in town may pass through their
offices once or twice a week to collect their mail, while the full-
year employees disappear in shifts for vacations and those who
remain go on bankers’ hours.

This easy-going pace permeates the campus except for the
University Theatre at Main and Henry Streets on the edge of
downtown historic Lexington. Reading the signs and listening to
the sounds emanating from within, it becomes obvious that the |
Theatre is anything but dormant for the season. But it isn’t . wa ae a iat
really the University Theatre (drama is full of illusions, you
know); signs around the building, in a vein more family-oriented
than those seen there during the school year, proclaim the
existence of the Henry Street Playhouse, Lexington’s own

aes ssid Ha
pe ieea rs)

 

Top: One of the musical dance numbers from Sandy Wilson's The Boy
summer stock company. Friend. Above: Attractive notices on the Theatre wall on Main Street
On a typical day, you might hear vocal rehearsals for the announced the season.

 

 

 

 

 

musical productions; two of this season’s three productions were
musicals, The Boy Friend and The Contrast. If not heavenly
choruses, you could at least hear Musical Director Charlie
Markley at the organ working on his score for the season’s closer
(and box office leader) The Passion of Dracula. From the
backstage door, you could hear the sounds of construction as
Technical Director Bill Barksdale supervised a crew ranging
from professional carpenters to high school students. On
Saturday afternoons, sounds of the matinee performances could
be heard in the streets, and after the show, players in costume
would stroll through historic Lexington drumming up business.

And drum up business they did, in or out of costume; the
Henry Street Playhouse grossed more than $33,000, and could
be said to be instrumental in giving Lexington tourism a boost in
a year when Virginia tourism as a whole suffered a decline.

 

 

The cast of The Passion of Dracula in Stonewall Jackson Cemetery (left
to right) Rob Mish, ’76; Drayton Smith, ’74; Bill Roberts; Ginger
McNeese; Craig Strachan, ’80; John Hollinger, 78; Eleanor Jones; Dr.
Albert C. Gordon; Carol Taylor.

 

Rob Mish, ’76, and Katie Huntley carry off a dramatic moment in Royall
Tyler's The Contrast.

 

 

 

 

Local businesses and individuals contributed generously, and
the Company also received grant monies from the city, state and
federal governments.

Members of the Company made some money, too, usually
averaging out to less than $1 per hour, but no one claimed to be
in it for the money. Most of these people are involved with the
University Theatre during the school year, or with some other
theatres. Henry Street is for fun; the profits are mostly partied
away, as is the summer. Shares of stock (thus the term ‘stock
company ) are let out on a production-by-production basis, with
each member's percentage determined by the extent of their
responsibilities.

These responsibilities varied from one production to the
next, making versatility on everyone's part essential. All who
worked with Henry Street gained a greater understanding of the

 

 

John Hollinger, 78, and Dr. Al Gordon (as Dracula,
who else?) strolling through downtown Lexington
on a Saturday afternoon looking for potential
theatregoers.

Below: Musical Director Charlie Markley working
on his original score for The Passion of Dracula.

 

 

 

Above: Members of the cast of The Passion of Dracula put on their makeup
in the green room of the theatre.

Right: Technical Director Bill Barksdale and Director Bill Rough look on
as the staking procedures for the finale of The Passion of Dracula are
worked out.

 

 

myriad duties involved in the thousands of person-hours that go
into staging a production that takes about two hours to see.

The interrelationships between the Henry Street Playhouse
and W&L’s University Theatre are byzantine. Perhaps the C-
school phrase of interlocking directorates applies here. Fine Arts
Department Chairman Dr. Albert C. Gordon directed both
musical productions, starred as Count Dracula in the third, and
was also manager and director of the stock company. Ginger
McNeese, Drama Department secretary, served as
choreographer and played substantial roles in two productions.
Art Department secretary Shirley Hughes was the company’s
business manager as well as singing the lead role in The Boy
Friend and playing in The Contrast.

Several W&L alumni and students participated in Henry
Street. John Hollinger, ’78, appeared in all three productions, as

 

 

 

 

 

Above: A majority of the company of the Henry Street Playhouse pose for
a group photograph at their “almost-end-of-the-season” picnic.

Right: Carter McNeese, WUL’s associate director of development, does
an enthusiastic song and dance in The Contrast.

 

 

did Rob Mish, ’76. Drayton Smith, ’74, (whose artwork has

graced the covers of this production) played a leading role in
Dracula and designed sets for The Contrast. Craig Strachan,
80, and Stan Nolan, 81, put in many hours on stage and off.

A diverse group of people from outside the University
community completed the Henry Street Playhouse roster,
ranging from the manager of Lexington’s commercial radio
station to one of President Huntley’s daughters, Katie, an honor
student at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College.

Making no bones about being oriented more toward
entertainment than toward serious drama, the Henry Street
Playhouse wowed Lexingtonians and visitors alike, and enjoyed
much acclaim in the local media. This second year of operation
surpassed expectations, making for even bigger plans for next
season.

 

 

 

Unitrust Honors Gilliams
Martins Say Substantial Financial Gains Are ‘Icing on the Cake’

It all started in Gloucester, Va., back
before World War I. Little Jimmie Martin
began acquiring investment capital by
means of a Saturday Evening Post delivery
route, and before too long he had amassed
enough, almost, to buy a share of stock in
the Bank of Gloucester, of which his father
was a co-founder. (Actually, little Jimmie
bought the share partly on credit; his dad
signed the note with him.)

Little Jimmie Martin grew up to
become James Bland Martin, law graduate
(1931) of Washington and Lee, founding : ? ie 6 ee
partner of Martin, Hicks & Ingles of :
Gloucester, a prominent Democratic
member of the Virginia House of
Delegates in the late ’30s and early ’40s,
back when Virginia politics meant Harry
F. Byrd Sr. and Virginia government was
not only scrupulously honest but also
scrupulously limited.

Meanwhile, Christine Hale was
growing up in Phoenix, and eventually it
was arranged through a mutual Sweet
Briar friend for her to meet Jimmie
Martin. Teen Hale soon became Teen
Martin, and thus entered the Washington
and Lee circle, where she has shone ever
since. She was elected to the University's
Board of Trustees in 1978.

As all this was going on, the Bank of
Gloucester prospered, and Jimmie and
Teen Martin expanded their holdings in it,
in good measure the result of inheritance
from Jimmie’s banker from childhood’s
happy hour, his father. Eventually, the
Bank of Gloucester became part of United
Virginia Bankshares, the holding company,
and the Martins found themselves with
12,265 shares.

Jimmie and Teen Martin wished to
increase the income return based on their
investment—and, furthermore, they were
bothered (as anyone who owns anything
must be these days) by the prospect of
staggering inheritance taxes when one or
the other of them should die.

The perfect solution was at hand—the
creation of a charitable remainder Unitrust
arrangement with Washington and Lee.
The Martins set up the irrevocable trust,

 

Mr. and Mrs. James Bland Martin, creators of

with a bank as trustee. When Jimmie was in law school, Frank a charitable remainder Unitrust in honor of the
The Martins chose to honor Frank and Gilliam was a brand-new instructor in late Frank and Louise Gilliam, at their home in
Louise Gilliam with their Unitrust gift. English; he did not even become Dean of Gloucester, Va.

10

Students and Director of Admissions until
after Jimmie Martin had graduated.

Teen Martin, however, is and always
has been ardently involved in The Garden
Club of Virginia (past president; editor of
its 50-year history, Follow the Green
Arrow) and in The Graden Club of
America (former member of its Board of
Directors). So were Frank and Louise
Gilliam, of course—and thus blossomed a
friendship that lasted more than a quarter
of a century, until Louise Gilliam’s death
in 1973 and Frank Gilliam’s three years
later.

“Over the years we maintained a loving
relationship and it was through our
frequent visits to Lexington as their guests
that I became so gung-ho about
Washington and Lee,” Teen Martin
remembers. “We enjoyed and treasured
the exuberance of being with very special,
very dear friends. ” .

When it was established this fast
summer, the Martins’ Unitrust was, valued
at $305,000. This is what it means to them
and to Washington and Lee: |

—They received an immediate income-
tax deduction in the amount of a little
more than $100,000. Because of the
charitable character of the Unitrust, the
Martins incurred no capital gains taxes.

—The Martins set their Unitrust
income to be considerably above what they
had been receiving when they themselves
owned the stock. One of the advantages of
a Unitrust—in addition to the income-tax
deduction—is that the donors and the
trustee arrive at a rate of return to be paid
every year according to the market value
of the trust at the end of that year.

—There will never be a dime in estate
or inheritance taxes levied against the
capital which they put into the Unitrust.
When one dies, the other will continue to
receive the full amount of agreed-upon
income.

—When the other dies, Washington
and Lee will receive the full value of the
trust. In the Martins’ case, they have
designated the sum to establish the Frank
and Louise Gilliam Fund and have placed
no restrictions at all on use of the principal
or income after their deaths. Other
Unitrust arrangements might provide for

The late Frank and Louise
Gilliam, Unitrust honorees,
shown at Fancy Dress Ball

endowed professorships in particular
disciplines, Honor Scholarship programs,
or capital or permanent-endowment funds
to meet any of Washington and Lee’s
needs now and into the future, which few
people need to be reminded leaves an
almost limitless range of possibilities open
to prospective Unitrust participants.

The example of Jimmie and Teen
Martin, then, is this. If you have some
capital assets the income from which you
would like to increase measurably, and if
you have an inclination to provide for
yourselves and perhaps even for another

 

generation of beneficaries in a guaranteed,
predictable way, and if you wish to have
your memory honored and perpetuated, or
the memory of another such as Frank and
Louise Gilliam (or even, if you wish,
anonymity), and if you are disposed toward
helping assure Washington and Lee’s
future, and if you abhor the idea of paying
a large percentage of your assets to the
federal government but prefer to endow
Washington and Lee instead—then you
should inquire at Washington and Lee
about the several ways (a Unitrust is only
one) to create a charitable remainder trust.

 

Teen Martin is the only woman
(though not the first) on Washington and
Lee’s 25-member Board. She stands
second to no man, however, in her utter
dedication to the University and to the
personae of Frank and Louise Gilliam,
which to her and to Jimmie Martin (as to
most of us) is simply another way of saying
the same thing. When Teen Martin talks
of Washington and Lee, which is easy to
get her to do, she speaks unconsciously of
“we.” * It’s not hard to see why the Mar-
tins and the Gilliams were great good
friends.

Teen and Jimmie Martin are the kind
of people you want to have at your parties.
Her story-telling talents are legendary,
and if they re mostly about W&L, all the
better. (Her current favorite: While
making a development call recently, she
casually asked how a prospective donor,
an alumnus, had decided to attend Wash-
ington and Lee in the first place. His
father, it turned out, had decided to ask

*Not Teen Martin's trait uniquely, as a matter
of fact. She just happens to be more conspicu-
ous, perhaps, in the Washington and Lee cos-
mos today. It was Ross Malone, the late Rector
of the W&L Board, who remarked shortly be-
fore his death in 1973 that it’s amusing to see
the wives of Washington and Lee men when
they visit the University for the first time; “they
become completely indoctrinated with the
W&L ‘spirit.’ ” Teen Martin herself says: “In
my opinion, few substantial gifts are made
without the cooperation and approval of the
female of the species. I’m all for wife-courtin |”

 

Teen Martin Is Second to No Man in Dewotion toWG-L

his attorney, a W&L graduate, about the
University, and the response was a paean
almost without end. When it was over at
last, the father went home and muttered to
his family: “Asking a McMurran about
Washington and Lee is like asking Jesus
about Heaven.” The son duly enrolled.)

The Martins are not very public
people when it comes to their personal
affairs. They did not ask to have attention
directed toward this aspect of their
finances; on the contrary. They agreed to
serve as a real-life case study mostly be-
cause Teen Martin, on the University
Board of Trustees and a member of the
Board's Development Committee, con-
cluded she should put her mouth where
their money is. It’s one thing, after all,
for someone to exhort you to donate; it’s
quite another for one to be able to say “I”
did it, and here are the specifics, and this
is what we are receiving that we could not
have come by in any other way.”

What are Jimmie and Teen Martin
receiving through their Unitrust? “The
pleasure of giving, that terrifically rich
satisfaction,” she says. “And the oppor-
tunity to honor the man who was the
dearest friend to both of us, who simply
was the personification of Washington and
Lee’ —which says a great deal both about
Frank Gilliam and about Washington and
Lee.

“To have improved our financial status
as well,” she adds with a smile, “is icing
on the cake.”

 

 

ll

W Gazette
CF

Enrollment in Law and Undergraduate Schools Is Up as Classes Begin

Approximately 340 law students—one
of the largest numbers in W&L history—
began classes on Aug. 20. This is the third
year that classes have started in August,
allowing law students to complete first-
semester classes and examinations before
Christmas and have a three-week break
before the start of the second semester.

The law school welcomed 113 first-year
students to the campus (of which five
attended W&L as undergraduates) during
a two-day orientation session preceding
the start of classes.

Close on the heels of the budding
lawyers were the undergraduates—over
1,350 for the new academic year, led by
368 freshmen who began orientation
exercises on Sept. 5.

The new freshman class is slightly
larger than usual, W&L officials say,
because of a high “confirmation rate”
among applicants to whom the University
offered admission last spring. Fifty-five
percent of the students whom W&L
accepted did enroll—substantially higher
than the approximate 50 percent figure
that has prevailed at W&L over the past
decade. The higher percentage continues a
trend that began a year ago.

More than a quarter of the new
freshmen—27 percent—graduated in the
top 10 percent of their secondary school
class, and 48 percent ranked in the top
fifth. Forty-three of them are sons of
alumni.

 

 

Tom Wolfe publishes
another best seller

W&L alumnus Tom Wolfe, 51, has
just published what appears to be another
in his long line of top-notch best sellers.
Entitled The Right Stuff, the book is a
keen look at the history of the first seven
American astronauts, focusing on the
selection, training and exploitation of the
explorers.

The work is to be a featured selection
of the Book of the Month Club this fall and
has already hit the best seller lists in its
first week of publication. So all signs point
to another crop of rave reviews for Wolfe,
reminiscent of the words of the

12

 

Tom Wolfe after receiving honorary Doctor of
Letters degree at the WL commencement in
1974.

Washington Post: “We need Wolfe. He
should be declared a national asset.”

Especially memorable were two of his
most recent appearances at W&L. In the
dead of winter 1967, he spoke in Lee
Chapel dressed in his customary white
suit, a chartreuse handkerchief cascading
from his pocket. Then in May 1974, wearing
his inevitable white suit, he received the
honorary degree of Doctor of Letters.

Wolfe got his start in journalism and
creative writing at Washington and Lee,
as sports editor of the Ring-tum Phi and as
one of the founders of Shenandoah. After
graduation he received a Ph.D. in
American studies from Yale. Since then,
he has served as contributing editor for
New York magazine, and is currently a
regular contributor to Harper's.

 

 

University Library receives
Dillon, Leyburn letters

Two unique collections of 19th-century
letters have been added to the special
collections of the undergraduate library.

The first series, a group of personal
letters and records, documents the growth
of a Botetourt County limestone industry
founded in 1869 by Confederate Col.
Edward Dillon. They were presented to
Washington and Lee by three of his
grandchildren, who are still frequent
visitors to the area: Miss Mary Unity
Dillon and Miss Susan Pendleton Dillon of
Washington, D.C., and Frank C. Dillon
Jr. of Roanoke.

Born in Salem, Va., in 1835, Edward
Dillon was the scion of a prominent Valley
family. His career in the U.S. Army began
in 1857, but he resigned his commission in
1861, when Virginia seceded from the
Union.

To support his family after the war, Dillon
accepted the position of traffic agent and
manager of the James River and Kanawha
Canal, and it was then that he discovered the
tremendous industrial potential in the
limestone of the upper James River Valley.
Several years were spent investigating the
area, as Dillon continued with his duties
for the canal—the same company whose
stock, donated in 1796 by George
Washington, saved W&L’s predecessor
institution, Liberty Hall, from financial
ruin.

In 1869 Dillon signed the first lease for
a quarry, lime kiln and other facilities—
and within three years the family was
firmly established at Indian Rock, a bluff
overlooking the river. The Indian Rock
estate remained the Dillon home for more
than a century, until the last residents
closed the house in 1976.

Col. Dillon moved to Lexington in
1890, living at Mulberry Hill, near the site
of Liberty Hall, until his death in 1897.

The second gift is an important
collection of ante-bellum letters written by
Dr. Alfred Leyburn, a Lexington native
and student at Washington College in the
early 1820s. The letters, primarily
personal in nature, discuss many of the
leading families of the college community
from the 1820s through the 1840s. Donors
of the collection are Mrs. Marion Junkin
and Margo Junkin, descendants of Dr.
Leyburn.

Perhaps the most noteworthy
contribution made by Leyburn came in

1865 when, as secretary of the Board of
Washington College, he drafted the letter
inviting Robert E. Lee to become the
president of the war-torn school.

W&L Head Librarian Maurice D.
Leach Jr. commented that the two
collections “complement superbly our
manuscript resources. Historians studying
the area will find these items of
exceptional interest.”

Alfred Leyburn’s great-grandson is Dr.
James Graham Leyburn, the eminent
sociologist and social historian who taught
at Washington and Lee for a quarter-
century until his retirement in 1972.
James Leyburn was Dean of the University
at W&L from 1947 until 1955. The author
of The Scotch-Irish and the award-winning
Haitian People among many volumes, Dr.
Leyburn now lives in Martinsburg, W. Va.

 

 

Lewis Law Center sponsors
human rights conference

Ways to employ international human-
rights principles to protect the domestic
rights of American citizens was the topic of
a conference this month sponsored by the
Frances Lewis Law Center.

The meeting, which involved 14
experts in American civil-rights and
international human-rights law, was the
first of its kind for the law center, a branch
of the School of Law. The center was
created in 1978 as part of the $9-million
gift to W&L from Sydney and Frances
Lewis of Richmond.

Participants analyzed past and current
cases in roundtable discussions, according
to Frederic L. Kirgis, director of the
Lewis Center and professor of law. He
said the center's approach to such
conferences will be to bring experts
together to thrash out complex law-reform
questions in small-group settings.

“In this way,” Kirgis said, “we hope to
give our guests the opportunity to
communicate on a high professional
level—which otherwise is impossible.”
Kirgis said the program ended with
suggestions for “some relatively modest
but important ways in which awareness of
international human-rights law can be
strengthened.”

 

One of the new law teachers has the
rank of assistant professor; two are visiting
lecturers, and two are adjunct professors of
law. The four newly named faculty
members in the College, Washington and
Lee’s arts and science division, have the
rank of assistant professors. The two new
teachers in the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics are associate
professors.

The new assistant law professor is
Catherine M. A. McCauliff, who was in
the general practice of law in New York.
Visiting lecturers in law are Thomas L.
Shaffer, a former dean of Notre Dame
University s School of Law, who is W&L’s
Francis Lewis Scholar-in-Residence for the
fall semester, and William B. Stoebuck,
professor of law at the University of
Washington, visiting professor of law.
Clark R. Mollenhoff, the Pulitzer-prize
winning investigative reporter and
professor of journalism in the
undergraduate school since 1976, and Ross
D. Young Jr., an associate with Webster &
Chamberlain in Washington, D.C., are
adjunct professors of law.

New teachers in the College are

 

 

New faculty members

Eleven men and women have been
appointed to teaching positions at W&L—
five in the School of Law, four in the
undergraduate College and two in the
School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics.

Mudd Follow-up

In September, 1977, we told you
that Roger Mudd, ’50, the CBS News
reporter, had joined the effort to re-
habilitate the name of his remote an-
cestor, Dr. Samuel Mudd, the phy-
sician who set John Wilkes Booth’s
broken leg after the assassination of
Lincoln in 1865.

At last, in July, the crusade was
won. President Carter declared, more
or less, that Samuel Mudd was indeed
an honorable man. (Among other
things, the Presidential pronounce-
ment gives a whole new twist to the
phrase, spawned by the 1865 incident,
“his name is Mudd.”)

When the news broke, The Most
Trusted Man in America was on vaca-
tion, and it transpired that the story
had to be reported by Cronkite-man-
qué .. . Roger Harrison Mudd.

Objective newsman to the nth de-
gree, Mudd told in detail of the state-
ment of gratitude issued by a descen-
dant of Dr. Sam’s in faraway Saginaw.
Then, up on the screen, behind Roger,
flashed a slide of . . . Roger. “Because
of an obvious conflict of interest,”
deadpanned Roger Mudd, “Roger
Mudd had no public comment. But
privately, he said the development
would help him out greatly at home.”

 

 

 

Stephen J. Kowall, assistant professor of
geology; Ronald L. Reese, assistant
professor of physics; Allan Page Remillard,
assistant professor of physical education,
director of acquatics and head swimming
and water polo coach; and Dale S. Wright,
assistant professor of religion. Kowall is
taking the place for the current academic
year of Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, professor
of geology and department head, who is on
leave. Wright is a one-year replacement
for Dr. Minor L. Rogers, assistant
professor of religion, who is also on
sabbatical.

New teachers in the School of
Commerce are Carl P. Kaiser and Richard
A. Williams Jr., both assistant professors of
economics. Kaiser was previously an
instructor in economics at Webster
College in St. Louis, and Williams taught
economics at Virginia Polytechnic Institute
and State University. Williams will substitute
for Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of
economics, who is on academic leave.

Announced earlier was the
appointment of Almand R. Coleman, one
of the nation’s foremost professors of
business administration for 40 years, who
has rejoined the faculty at Washington and
Lee as distinguished lecturer in accounting
for the 1979-80 year. Coleman was
professor of accounting at W&L from 1939
until 1954.

Lt. Col. Thomas B. Vaughn has
replaced Lt. Col. Medley M. Davis as
professor of military science and head of
the military science program, and Capts.
Jerome F. Kelly and Charles H. Hill III
are new assistant professors in the ROTC
program.

 

 

Faculty activity
and honors

[_] James Boatwright, editor of
Shenandoah, Washington and Lee’s
literary magazine, has been awarded a
$5,000 editor's fellowship by the
Coordinating Council of Literary
Magazines (CCLM).

Boatwright, who is professor of English
at W&L, is one of 10 editors in the nation
to receive the fellowships, which are made
available through CCLM by the National
Endowment for the Arts. The grants are
intended to allow editors to improve their
magazines and to develop larger audiences
for them. Boatwright has taught English at
Washington and Lee since 1960 and has
been editor of Shenandoah since 1962.

[.] Dr. Michael Pleva, associate professor
of chemistry, has been named associate
director of a three-year, $160,000 National

13

Science Foundation project to help both
the users and the manufacturers of
scientific instrumentation.

Initially the project will focus on
instrumentation used for measurement and
control of chemical composition, a field
with applications in all areas of science and
engineering. Professionals in
undergraduate education, research
laboratories, manufacturing industries and
instrument sales will join in the
cooperative effort on a national scale.

Named as the director of the project
was Dr. Frank A. Settle Jr., professor of
chemistry at Virginia Military Institute.
Dr. Settle and Dr. Pleva will direct the
diverse group of authorities in the
preparation of courseware dealing with a
representative number of new
instrumental methods. The hub of the
telephone accessible information network
will be a Burroughs B-6800 computer
system located on the V.M.I. campus.

[_] Pamela Hemenway Simpson and
Royster Lyle Jr. have received a
Certificate of Commendation in the
nation’s most prestigious competition for
local history achievement.

The American Association for State and
Local History, at its annual meeting in
Tucson, Ariz., named the pair for
researching, writing, illustrating and
designing The Architecture of Historic
Lexington, published in 1977 by the
University Press of Virginia.

Dr. Simpson is associate professor of
art history at Washington and Lee, where
she has taught since 1973. Lyle is the
associate director of the George C.
Marshall Research Foundation.

[_] Anne Unverzagt, assistant professor of
law, has been named reporter for a portion
of the proposed Uniform Privacy Act,
being drafted by the Conference of
National Commissioners on Uniform State
Laws, which designs statutes of interest to
all 50 states. A reporter is responsible for
creating a section of the proposal’s first
draft.

The proposed statute will be concerned
with many aspects of privacy, especially
with the question of releasing personal
employee or government records to
general inspection. Unverzagt's particular
emphasis is in the area of medical
records—when patient records may be
made public by doctors, hospitals or
insurance companies.

[_] O. W. Riegel, professor emeritus of
journalism, is the author of a major survey
of Hungarian film history, “The Reflective
Eye: Hungarian Cinema,’ published in the
recent edition of Osiris, a magazine which
includes both French and English works in

14

poetry and prose.

In his essay, Riegel defines his
“addiction” to the films of that socialist
nation. His main interest is in those films
produced in the 15 years following the
Hungarian rebellion of 1956—an
incredibly creative period, Riegel says,
and a time in which a sense of history was
inescapable. He comments: “Heroism
ended in tragedy and futility. The men
honored on Hungarian paper money are all
remembered for their great defeats. The
Hungarians saw their lands shrink and
their glory flicker. And they were not
endeared. . . . No wonder the film makers
should turn—in the liberalized climate
that followed the 1956 rebellion—to
introspection and a re-examination of the
national experience.”

During his 43 years on the W&L
journalism faculty, Riegel remained a
principal authority in the field of
propaganda and the media. His classic
work, Mobilizing for Chaos: The Story of
the New Propaganda, was originally
published in 1934, but its significance was
lasting enough for it to be called back into
print in 1972 by the New York Times's
book-publishing division.

 

Skull of Indian identified by W&L archaeologists.

 

 

W&L archaeologists identify
400-year-old Indian skeleton

Research carried out at W&L ona
skeleton unearthed in Southwest Virginia
over the summer indicates that the
remains are of a 35-to-40 year-old male
Indian who was buried nearly four
centuries ago.

Dr. John M. McDaniel, advisor to the
Virginia Research Center regional office at
W&L and associate professor of
anthropology, and Jim Adams, an
archaeologist with the Virginia Center,
cleaned, identified and photographed the
skeleton, which was found during
construction work in a Salem, Va., parking
lot.

The two W&L archaeologists were able
to estimate the date of burial in the period
between 1500 and 1600 A.D. The
skeleton, removed by workers when
discovered, was determined by the
archaeologists to be in the flexed burial
position by the close association of several
hand and finger bones with the vertebrae.

Washington and Lee was selected to be
one of five regional offices of the Virginia
Research Center for Archaeology in 1978.

 

 

Water polo becomes
major varsity sport

The 1979 W&L water polo team began
its season on Sept. 28 at the Johns Hopkins
Invitational Tournament. The two-day
tournament, held at Johns Hopkins
University in Baltimore, is one of six
tournaments featuring the water polo
Generals this fall.

The team enters this season with a new
coach and a lot of optimism. Page
Remillard, the new aquatics director, came
to W&L from California, center of the
water polo world, where last season he led
Claremont-Mudd College to a 20-8 record
and the conference championship.

Remillard is outspoken and positive
when expressing views on water polo and
its coaching. He feels that his time is best
spent on the pool deck coaching his
players, and keeping administrative duties
in the office to a minimum. To this end, he
has engaged several students interested in
assisting him in office work.

W&L has consistently placed second to
Richmond in the Virginia State
Championships the past several years. The
1978 team posted an impressive 15-9
record in the highly competitive Southern
Water Polo Conference.

Led by senior co-captains Mike Foley
and Biff Martin, and by fellow senior
Drew Pillsbury, the 1979 squad has high
hopes for the season. Although he refrains
from making predictions, Remillard is
confident about his players’ ability, and has
strong hopes of capturing the conference
championship in his first year at W&L.
Keys to this goal will be victories over
Richmond, perennial league powerhouse,
and East Carolina.

 

 

Action in a 1978 water polo tournament, a new and popular sport at WUL.

of the basketball team’s trip to Europe.

W&L must travel a long road before
the Southern Water Polo Conference
Championships, which the Generals will
host Nov. 2-3. But considering the
attitude, talent and energy exhibited by
coach and players alike, that road appears
to be a bright and pleasant one.

Other tournament games for the team
include the following: Southern Water
Polo Tournament in Richmond, Oct. 5-6;
Brown University Invitational in
Providence, R.I., Oct. 12-13; a second
Southern Water Polo Tournament to be
held at home in the Warner Center, Oct.
19-20; and the State Championships in
Richmond, Oct. 26-27.

 

Athletic Director Bill McHenry, Basketball Captain Pete Farrell, and President Huntley urge support

possible. European countries the Generals
will visit during the 12-day trip (Dec. 19-
30) include Iceland, Germany, France,
Holland, and Luxembourg. Also included
is a stop in the Bahamas. After their
return, the Generals will end the tour with
a tournament in Florida (Jan. 5-6).

The campaign to raise money for the
trip was officially kicked off last spring with
official approval from President Huntley
and Athletic Director Bill McHenry.
Basketballl players are currently raising
funds through a variety of projects: raffles,
benefits, a souvenir booklet, and others.

There are 16 seats available for the
trip, the cost of which is $900. More
information about these openings, which
may be filled by faculty, alumni, family or
friends of the basketball program, may be
obtained from Jim Casciano, assistant
basketball coach.

From Paris to Amsterdam, Cologne to
Nassau—with the help of the W&L
community, this program will be a great

experience and opportunity for the

basketball team as well as the University,
Casciano said.

 

 

 

 

Basketball team plans
tour of Europe

Washington and Lee’s basketball
Generals are planning an event which will
be an all-important first for the team—or
any other team in Virginia. Sixteen
members of the squad, along with
managers and coaches, are scheduled to
spend the Christmas holidays in Europe
and playing in five countries.

The trip is being arranged by the
American International Exchange
Program, and the W&L men are to play
club as well as university teams whenever

WLUR staff aid in debut
of Sweet Briar station

And to think it all started with a game
of touch football . . .

Such is the story from WLUR-FM
station manager Robert J. deMaria,
assistant journalism professor, about the
part played by Washington and Lee
University in the founding of a student-
operated radio station at Sweet Briar
College.

According to deMaria, students
involved in W&L’s radio station—
primarily senior station manager Cy
Bahakel and juniors Ben Keesee and
Curran Snipes—called Sweet Briar to
challenge their female counterparts to a
game. Instead, they received their own
challenge—to aid the girls in the debut
broadcasts of WSBC, as the new station is
called.

In early October, the WLUR staff
drove to Sweet Briar for a three-hour
training session involving the behind-the-
scenes world of radio production.
Supervising this and other programs for
the emerging 10-watt station was student
manager Stephanie Stitts. Her staff has
said WSBC is in dire need of records and
tapes, and donations will be greatly
appreciated.

Another case of W&L gallantry? To be
sure. But never fear—the football game
was played as scheduled, and the post-
game drinks were on the girls.

15

We&L Books

Another Scholarly Contribution by Jenks/Essays on Religious Plurality

by Frederic B. M. Hollyday, ’48

 

Francis Joseph and the Italians, 1849-1859, by
William A. Jenks, Professor of History, Washington
and Lee University. Charlottesville, University
Press of Virginia, 1978.

 

The Austrian Empire was a conglomerate
of minority nationalities. Their treatment is
one of the pervasive themes in Professor
Jenks’ previous books: The Austrian Elec-
toral Reform of 1907 (1950); Vienna and the
Young Hitler (1960); and Austria Under the
Iron Ring, 1879-1893 (1965). To these not-
able contributions to scholarship, he now
adds an authoritative study of a crucial decade
in relations between the Empire and the
Italians, comparatively small in number, but
whose fate illumines Austrian, Italian, and
European history.

When the inexperienced Francis Joseph
became Emperor of Austria at the age of 18
in 1848, he had already received his baptism
of fire in Italy. Further experiences of the
revolutions of 1848 and 1849 only reinforced
his detestation of revolt and unbending re-
solve to secure his inheritance.

Yet Austrian policy in Italy was not as
reactionary as it has often been portrayed.
Francis Joseph's first Minister-President,
Prince Felix zu Schwarzenberg, sought sup-
port for Austria by instituting the strongest
and most competent administration in Italy.
But though cosmopolitan Trieste was won
over, the nationalist aristocracy and middle
class of Lombardy-Venetia, let alone Italians
elsewhere, were not.

This negative result stemmed in part from
the harsher aspects of Austrian policy.
Hanging and exiling of rebels, confiscation
of their estates, supervision of the press and
universities, and imposition of military oc-
cupation, conscription, and heavy taxes
alienated national and liberal opinion to the
benefit of Sardinia-Piedmont.

More significantly, Austria was subject
to fundamental limitations on its policy.
Official ideology forbade granting a constitu-
tion to the Italian provinces and, indeed,
any concession to a single nationality, which
would inevitably spark demands by others.

 

Dr. Hollyday is professor of history at Duke Uni-
versity.

16

 

 

Dr. William A. Jenks—teacher, scholar, author.

The desire of Francis Joseph’s brother, Maxi-
milian, to introduce conciliatory reforms in
Lombardy-Venetia was blocked by the pre-
dominant policy of centralizing the admini-
stration in Vienna.

Nor was this all. Austria might be termed
the dominant power in Italy, but, as others
have found, its satellites were anything but
docile tools. Naples combined a magnifi-
cently corrupt government with dread of
Austrian interference. The Papal States were
at least equally inefficient, and Pope Pius
IX’s reactionary policies were decried by the
Empire, despite the extraordinary ad-
vantages given to the Catholic Church in
Austria.

Austrian freedom of action was further
restricted by other European powers. France
played an active role in opposition, while
British public opinion was pro-Sardinian. The
denunciation at the Congress of Paris of
Italy's condition under Austrian domination
was one result. When, for honor and justice,
Francis Joseph embarked upon war with
France and Sardinia in 1859, it was against
strong military and political advice and with-
out allies. Austria's defeat marked the as-
sumption of Italian national leadership by
Sardinia.

A unique feature of this definitive study

 

is its dedication to Professor Jenks’ students
who have followed his footsteps into profes-
sional historical scholarship and publication.
They are associated with such diverse in-
stitutions as California State at Long Beach,
Columbia, Duke, Harvard, Michigan, and
Yale.

by Harlan R. Beckley

Assistant Professor of Religion

 

Christian Faith in a Religiously Plural World,
edited by Donald G. Dawe and John B. Carman.
Maryknoll, New York: Orbis Books, 1978.

 

In April of 1976 Washington and Lee
University was the site of a symposium that

addressed the _ increasingly pressing
problem of how persons in the Christian
tradition should relate _ religiously,

theologically, and morally to persons who
find religious meaning in other religious
traditions. Christian Faith in a Religiously
Plural World is a compilation of papers which
were either presented at that symposium or
inspired by it.

The symposium, which was fully de-
scribed in the July, 1976, alumni magazine,
was sponsored jointly by Washington and
Lee, through the generosity of the Philip
Fullerton Howerton Fund,* and the Center
for the Study of World Religions at Harvard
University. David W. Sprunt, head of the
Department of Religion, and Minor L.
Rogers, associate professor of religion, who
have, respectively, written the preface and
introduction to this book, initially conceived
this symposium. They sought a forum where
Christians with diverse views could wrestle
with this problem of Christian religious and
moral attitudes toward persons of other living
religious traditions under the scrutiny of
persons from those traditions. Accordingly,
the symposium brought to the campus
members of the Buddhist, Hindu, Jewish,
and Muslim traditions as well as persons who
manifest the diversity within Christianity.

*The Philip Fullerton Howerton Fund was
established by Mrs. Howerton as a memorial to
her late husband. It is designed to support
programs at Washington and Lee which examine
the relevance of Christian faith for the modern
world.

 

The essays in‘this volume were written with
this pluralistic audience in mind.

There is more than a Washington and
Lee connection which makes this book of
interest for those concerned about how
Christians do and ought to relate to other
religious persons.

It is distinctive in its approach to a Chris-
tian theology of religions. Although this is
one among many recent books in Christian
theology that address how Christians ought
to relate to other religious traditions—the
topic is a timely one—it is the only volume,
which I know of, that includes essays by per-
sons from those traditions. The first section
in this book is a discussion between Donald
G. Dawe, a Christian theologian, and Ma-
hinda Palihawandana (Theravada Buddhist),
K. L. Seshagiri Rao (Hindu), Eugene B.
Borowitz (Jew), and Fazlur Rahman (Mus-
lim). It is not a comparison of Christian be-
liefs and practices with those of other reli-
gions. Rather, the participants in these other
faiths generously consented to regpond cri-
tically to Dawe’s theological formula for un-
derstanding God’s redemptive work in and
through our religious traditions. All of these
essays focus on the Christian theological
problem of maintaining loyalty to the word
of God in Christ while recognizing the reli-
gious and moral quality of the lives of persons
of other faiths.

This book is also distinctive in that it in-
cludes essays by Christians with widely di-
vergent perspectives, including theologians
and students of comparative religions, Pro-
testants and a Roman Catholic, liberals and
evangelicals.

Finally, this book is unusual in that the
diverse and largely nonprofessional audience
to which these papers were delivered re-
quired that the authors, who have technical
competence in their respective fields, write
in a language and style that the layman can
easily understand. Of the 13 papers, only
Palihawandana’s essay on the idea of grace in
Theravada Buddhism requires technical ex-
pertise for adequate comprehension.

The essays are divided into four parts.
Parts I and II begin with major constructive
statements by Dawe and John B. Carman to
which the other essays in each part respond.

As indicated above, Part I begins with
Donald Dawe’s theological account of how

 

 

Christians can see God’s redemptive work
in the lives of persons of other faiths. Dawe
offers his interpretation of the Biblical idea
of covenant from Noah to Christ as the basis
for his theological criticism of any Christian
claim that salvation is exclusive to those who
believe in Christ. More positively, he asserts
that the covenant in Jesus name can be
translated into other religious traditions
which also express the motif of death and
resurrection that is the key to the new being
which the Christian experiences through his
or her covenant in Christ. Dawe claims that
his Biblical theology preserves loyalty to
God’s particular revelation in Christ while
calling on Christians “to accept the death of
their ideologies” (p. 32). Dying to Christian
“ideologies,” he argues, is a crucial part of
participating in the death and resurrection
of Christ.

The respondents to Dawe’s paper are ap-
preciative of his theological openness to their
traditions, but they offer differing criticisms
of his specific conclusions. The common
theme in these responses is a suspicion that
Dawe does not accurately reflect the exclu-
sivism that has historically been part of the
Christian tradition and that continues to exist
in Christian attitudes and missions. Pali-
hawandana and Rao are especially concerned
with the political and economic injustices
wrought by Christian exclusivism. Borowitz
and Rahman, whose religious traditions are
historically related to Christianity, focus
more directly on theological dimensions of
the problem.

Perhaps the most provocative and cer-
tainly the most surprising of these essays is
by the Jewish theologian, Eugene Borowitz,
who warns Dawe that by “being concerned
to be inclusive he brings universalism to the
brink of relativism” (p. 63). Borowitz does
not believe Jews (and by implication Chris-
tians) should indiscriminately accept all
aspects of other religions. The surprise is
that Borowitz admonishes Dawe in particular
and Christian theologians in general that a
Christian embracing of other religious tradi-
tions which is not based on God’s particular
revelation in Christ jeopardizes the integrity
of Christian faith.

Part II begins with a paper by John Car-
man, a Christian comparativist. Carman
combines his study of comparative religions

 

with an impressive knowledge of the Chris-
tian theological tradition. He argues that the
term “religion” can be useful for discovering
common elements that can bridge the gap
between piety and ritual based on the Chris-
tian gospel and piety and ritual in other tra-
ditions. Carman contends that early Chris-
tians accepted the idea of religion as a com-
mon element in human language and human
nature. This recognition of religion as a
common element in being human enabled
Christians to make their gospel intelligible
to other cultures by translating the scriptures
into other languages. The implications drawn
from this observation allow Carman to insist
that the Christian gospel can and should be
made intelligible to all human beings and
that in translating the gospel for other cul-
tures Christians will discover a “religious
kinship with all other human beings” (p.
102). This kinship will not necessarily be
based on others accepting the particular re-
ligious ritual and piety of Christians. It will
be based upon the recognition that “religion
[in its various expressions] is an aspect of our
common humanity and an area of our com-
mon human creativity’ (p. 98). Carman does
not, however, believe that all religion is re-
demptive. Since religion can be demonic,
Christians are sometimes called to speak “a
prophetic word of admonition or warning’ as
well as “a gospel word of encouragement’
(p. 100). We can infer from Carman’s essay
that the gospel can be translated into other
forms of religious piety and ritual and can
encourage these religious expressions. The
possibility for this translation is, however,
limited; where no religious kinship is appar-
ent, the Christian is obliged to speak a
prophetic word of admonition. Unfortunate-
ly, Carman does not indicate how Christians
might judge whether another religious ex-
pression is divine or demonic.

The respondents to Carman’s essay are
Christian theologians. All of them welcome
his attempt to delineate a common element in
humanity which Christians can share with
other religious persons. They disagree on
the exact locus of that commonality and on
the degree of conformity between the gospel
and other religious expressions. Charles P.
Price, a Christian theologian, associates sal-
vation more closely with God’s revelation,
which for Christians is the word of God

17

 

known in Christ, than with religion, which
he defines as man’s total response to God’s
revelation. Price, therefore, locates the
common element in the world religions in
God's manifold revelations in different times
and places rather than in religion, the human
response to those particular revelations.
David F. K. Steindl-Rast and Gerald H. An-

derson focus more directly on the issue of.

continuity. For Steindl-Rast, a Benedictine
monk who says he has more in common with
his fellow Buddhist monks than with Chris-
tians outside the monastery, the emphasis is
upon continuity. The issue is not how much
of the common religious element in humanity
can be affirmed by the particular religious
claims of the Christian gospel. The problem
rather is how to change those in all religious
traditions whose religious commitments lead
them to exclusive claims for truth and salva-
tion. By contrast Anderson, a Methodist
missiologist, while admitting some continuity
between the Christian gospel and other re-
ligious traditions, emphasizes that “the goal
of the gospel is to bring about a change or
transformation into something new’ (p. 113).

Following the formal papers and critical
responses, which were prepared in advance of
the symposium, Wilfred Cantwell Smith, a
Christian comparativist, whose work played
a significant role in framing the issues for the
conference, offered his observations on the
substance and dynamics of what had taken
place. Smith’s almost extemporaneous ob-
servations constitute Part III of the volume.
In addition to comments on various substan-
tive points in the papers, Smith makes the
general observation that even though the
essays do not offer a unanimously acceptable
answer to the Christian problem of exclu-
siveness and inclusiveness, they do share a
troubled conscience sensitive to the dilemma
of how to preserve the integrity of the Chris-
tian tradition while satisfying a moral obliga-
tion to respect persons of other faiths. Of
equal importance to Smith is the fact that
Christians were willing to ask representa-
tives of other religious traditions to criticize
their Christian theological proposals for re-
solving this dilemma.

The final part of the book includes es-
says by Alfred C. Krass, John Ross Carter,
and Palihawandana that were inspired by the
symposium and were written following it.

18

 

 

Of these essays the one by Krass, whose
vocation is in Christian missions, requires
special comment because his paper is the
only one that clearly and unabashedly argues
for continuing Christian evangelism. Krass
decries the Christian evangelism which ac-
companied Western colonialism because it
clothed the gospel in cultural imperialism,
but he insists that Christians must not give
up the universality of the claim that Jesus
Christ is the one Lord over all of history.

My final assessment of the essays collect-
ed in Christian Faith in a Religiously Plural
World builds upon what I take to be the
implication of Smith’s general observation:
the essays are significant, not because they
resolve the theological issues that separate
Christians from other religious traditions,
but because they constitute a unique ap-
proach to this Christian problem. The ap-
proach is unique because Christian students
of comparative religions and theologians
jointly address this Christian dilemma, sub-
jecting their proposals to critical examination
by participants in other religious traditions
who have something at stake in how Chris-
tians resolve their problems.

The proposals proffered by Dawe and
Carman are only partial beginnings and do
not claim to be more. Dawe’s attempt to
translate the covenant with Jesus Christ into
other religious beliefs and practices where
the redemptive work of God is also present
is admirable because he tried to find common
theological motifs without surrendering his
commitment to the Christian covenant. But
surely there is more to the Christian coven-
ant than participating in the death and resur-
rection of Christ and thereby surrendering
Christian “ideologies.” The Christian gospel
is a particular history of God's gracious and
merciful forgiveness and his requirement for
human righteousness based on love and jus-
tice. Faithful Christians may discover that
these beliefs are expressed differently in
other religious traditions, but they cannot
surrender these beliefs as informed by the
special history of the Christian gospel and
tradition. Borowitz is right in his warning
that in giving up its particular beliefs and
practices a religious people jeopardizes its
integrity and is in danger of religious rela-
tivism.

John Carman is right and suggestive in

 

his proposal that Christians should continue
to translate the gospel because there is a
common religious element in humanity. But
his necessary warning that religion can be
demonic coupled with his failure to provide
criteria for discerning when to speak a word
of prophetic criticism leave us without a clear
basis for judging when Christians are in kin-
ship with other religious pieties and rituals.
The Christians who respond to Carman do
not entirely agree with Carman or with each
other. This disagreement is especially
apparent if we include Krass’s article from
Part IV of the book.

Even if the Christian theologians and
comparativists had agreed, the gap between
them and the non-Christian participants is
apparent. For example, Fazlur Rahman,
whose interpretation of the Qur'an is amaz-
ingly tolerant of Judaism and Christianity,
will not consent to a continuity between
Islam and Christianity unless Christians sur-
render their beliefs in the incarnation and
trinity. I doubt that even Dawe would be
willing to die to these Christian “ideologies.”
In his last essay Palihawandana finds simi-
larities between the Theravada notion of
magga and the Christian idea of grace, but
he does not think they are identical. The
similarities would have been even more
difficult to establish had Palihawandana used
Protestant literature in addition to Thomas:
Aquinas, upon whom he relies exclusively
for his understanding of the Christian idea of
grace.

These qualifications upon what is ac-
complished by these essays do not deny its
significance. Its significance is, I think, that
these diverse Christians agree that the prob-
lem of how Christians can maintain their in-
tegrity and their moral obligation to other
persons of faith must be addressed. They
also agree that their proposals should be
subject to the critical scrutiny of persons from
other religious traditions. It is additionally
significant that these persons were willing to
share their time and energy to assist in this
Christian task. Although much remains to
be done, this format introduces readers to
the problem in a way which corresponds to
the realities we face and does not conceal its
difficulty. Furthermore, the discussion is
accessible to the laymen concerned about
this increasingly pressing Christian problem.

Chapter News

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM and
ROCKBRIDGE. A large number of
alumni and their families gathered at
Skylark on Sunday, July 15, for fun and
games with a picnic supper. The Skylark
property, Washington and Lee’s “Shangri-
La” high atop the Blue Ridge Mountains,
was of special interest to the visitors. Ross
Hersey, 40, president of the Augusta-
Rockingham chapter, expressed a warm
welcome on behalf of both alumni groups
present. Among the distinguished alumni
pointed out by Hersey was Dr. Aubrey A.
Houser, class of 1909. The arrangements
were made by Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins,
‘68, assistant alumni secretary and John
Duckworth, ‘71, development staff
associate, and their wives.

MID-SOUTH. The chapter co-hosted an
opening reception for the exhibition of
Washington and Lee’s collection of Louise

Herreshoff paintings at the Dixon Gallery
i

v

 

 

SOUTHERN OHIO— Officers at June 19 meeting are Thomas P. Winborne,
‘O1, past president; Smith Hickenlooper III, 64, president; Paul A. Hunt,
70. vice president; Robert W. Hilton Jr., °38, chairman of the board.

 

 

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM and ROCKBRIDGE—Lunch on the grass was
the order of the day at the chapter picnic at Skylark.

and Gardens on Sunday, June 24.
Following the reception, members had
cocktails and dinner at the Memphis
Country Club. Hosting the affair were
chapter president Jody Brown, 65;
Milburn K. Noell Jr., 51, 54L; S L
Kopald Jr., 43; Stewart Buxton, 36, and
their wives. Eighty alumni, spouses and
guests enjoyed dinner and remarks about
the collection and its donors by W&L
Treasurer James W. Whitehead, who was
accompanied by his wife. Director of
Development Farris Hotchkiss, 58, also
spoke about the significance of gifts such as
the Herreshoff collection to Washington
and Lee. On Monday morning, Whitehead
lectured for the docents at the Dixon
Gallery, closing the W&L program.

BLUE RIDGE. A reception for entering
freshmen from the Charlottesville area was
held August 3 at the Greencroft Club.
Cocktails and an attractive setting

 

 

Rick Chittum, 69.

   
   

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM and ROCKBRIDGE—Relaxing on the grounds
of Skylark are Maureen Coleman; John Conrad, ’73; Kathy Conrad;

MID-SOUTH—Enjoying themselves at the chapter reception are Frederick
C. Schaeffer, 64; William H. Houston III, ’56; Wallace V. Witmer Jr., ’58.

provided alumni and students with an
excellent opportunity to exchange
information about Washington and Lee.
The arrangements were made by Dan
Winter III, ‘69, chapter president, and
John V. Little, 73. In attendance and
representing the University were: John M.
Duckworth, 71, development staff
associate, and Mrs. Duckworth; Buddy
Atkins, ‘68, assistant alumni secretary, and
alumni secretary Bill Washburn, ’40.

CHARLOTTE. Washington and Lee
alumni gathered at the home of Gary
Murphy, 70, chapter president, on August
14 to honor incoming freshmen from
Charlotte. The occasion was informal, a
beer party and barbecue which provided
freshmen and their parents with an
enjoyable introduction to their local
predecessors. The only business conducted :
was the installation of new officers. They
are Lat Purser, 73, president; Henry

 

 

19

Chapter News

Harkey, 71, vice president; Dennis
Myers, 73, secretary, and Pegram
Johnson, ‘66, treasurer.

WASHINGTON. The chapter held its
annual reception and buffet dinner for its
new freshmen (both undergraduate and
law school) on Tuesday evening, August
14. It was another outstanding event held
at the home of Randolph Rouse, ’39, in
Arlington, Va. James A. Meriwether, ’70,
president of the chapter, made the
arrangements and presided over the brief
program. Shortly after the cocktail hour,
Meriwether recognized Rouse and thanked
him for making his home available for the
function. He then introduced Craig
Cornett, 80, one of the co-chairmen of the
1980 Mock Republican Convention, who
made a few brief remarks about this
upcoming special event. The new
freshmen and their parents were then
recognized. The chapter was pleased to

 

BLUE RIDGE—At the reception for freshmen at the Greencroft Club
are Dan Winter, 69; Mrs. Tom Bruce; Tom Bruce, ’40.

 

BLUE RIDGE—During reception John Little, 73, and Clay Thompson,
50, talk with Assistant Alumni Secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68.

20

have 21 out of 35 area freshmen attend the
reception. Also, a special guest was E.
Waller Dudley, 43, ’47L, a member of the
Board of Trustees. The evening closed
with remarks from Bill Washburn, ’40,
about the coming year at Washington and
Lee.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. The chapter
held its annual alumni reception and
dinner in honor of the incoming freshmen
and their families at the Old South
Mountain Inn near Boonesboro, Md., on
Wednesday evening, August 15. A large
number of alumni and their wives were
pleased to welcome four of the seven
entering freshmen. R. Noel Spence, '56,
‘O8L, presided over the meeting and
expressed the chapter's official greeting to
the freshmen and their families. John B.
Hoke Jr., 60, reported for the nominating
committee and presented the following
officers: John H. (Hamp) Tisdale, ’74L,

Murphy, ’70.

other guests.

CHARLOTTE—Jim Lancaster, ‘79 (center) and Harold Howe, ’76, (right)
help themselves to barbecue at reception for freshmen at the home of Gary

CHARLOTTE—Gary Murphy, ’70, past president, (back to camera)
exchanges greetings with Lat Purser, 73, (center), new president, and

president; James B. Crawford III, ’67,
’72L, vice president, and Roger J. Perry,
52, 54L, secretary-treasurer. Dr. James
G. Leyburn, Dean Emeritus, attended the
meeting and received special recognition
from President Spence. Bill Washburn,
40, alumni secretary, made a few remarks
expressing a welcome to the new freshmen
and giving them a brief overview of what
they might expect in their first few weeks
at W&L.

PALMETTO. Members of the alumni
group held their annual summer party for
students and freshmen on August 15 at the
home of Patton Adams, 65, and Mrs.
Adams. The lighted pool complete with
floating floral center piece was the perfect
setting for an informal cocktail reception
and buffet. The current students and
alumni mixed easily in this pleasant
atmosphere to exchange information about
W&L past and present. In an earlier

 

 

 

event, the chapter gathered on Saturday,
May 12, to challenge the Columbia, S.C..,
chapter of Sewanee alumni in a softball
game. Led by the wily play of their
veteran star, Wil Lear, 51, the Generals
prevailed by a score of 11-6.

PHILADELPHIA. The chapter held its
annual reception for new freshmen at the
home of Edward Coslett, ’70, in Media,
Pa., on Tuesday evening, August 28. A
large number of freshmen and their
parents were on hand to enjoy the setting,
as well as alumni and current students. Bill
Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary, was on
hand to express the University’s official
welcome, and to express thanks to Mr. and
Mrs. Coslett.

NEW YORK. The annual reception for
incoming freshmen was held Wednesday
evening, August 29, at the Metropolitan
Club. A large number of the 37

 

 

John F. Lillard II, 69, ’71L.

WASHINGTON—At reception at home of Randolph Rouse, '39, are John
B. Adams Jr., 69L; Gilbert S. Meem Jr., °72; Thomas L. Howard, ’68;

PALMETTO—WWL softball team includes Sam Painter, ’72L; Bobby Kelly,
‘76; John Folsom, ’73; Will Newton, '60; Laurie Croft, ’73L; Wil Lear, ’51;

undergraduate freshmen and their parents
were on hand. A panel of three current
students conducted the program. The
panelists were: Dan Carucci, ’80, head
dormitory counselor for the current
academic year; Cope Moyers, 81, and
Roman Kupecky, ‘80. John Ellis, 56,
president of the chapter, expressed a
welcome to the new men and their
parents. He also expressed the
appreciation of the chapter to Richard R.
Warren, 57, who was instrumental in
making the arrangements at the
Metropolitan Club. A question-and-answer
period concluded the successful panel
program.

FLORIDA WEST COAST. The chapter
entertained the Washington and Lee
freshmen from the Tampa area with a
barbecue at the home of George Harvey,
‘63, chapter president, on August 7. A
large number of alumni were on hand for

 

Claude Walker, ’71. Hagood Ellison, ’72, was absent for the photo.

PALMETTO—Discussing old times at W&L at annual summer party are
Wickie Stuart, 66, (left), and Phil Grose, ’60.

NEW ENGLAND—Alumani and guests at the reception for freshmen at the
home of Horace Gooch, ’31, and his wife in Worcester, Mass.

the function, and expressed a warm
welcome to the new freshmen. The
chapter was especially pleased to welcome
Edward Rosborough, 25.

NEW ENGLAND. Area freshmen and
their parents were guests at a lovely
reception hosted by Horace Gooch, '31,
and Mrs. Gooch at their home in
Worcester, Mass., on Thursday evening,
August 9. Cocktails on the lawn preceded
a buffet dinner. Charles W. Pride, ’72,
chapter president, opened the program
with a warm welcome to the new students
and also expressed the chapter's thanks to
Mr. and Mrs. Gooch. Also present were
Bill Washburn, ‘40, alumni secretary, and
Stewart Epley, 49, the newly appointed
University treasurer. Washburn presented
a series of color slides showing the campus
and student activities, and the evening
ended with a lively question-and-answer
period.

 

21

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$75.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$90.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your
name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

22

1925

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON of Meridian, Miss., re-
cently received the Lawyer-Citizen Award for his
outstanding service to his profession and com-
munity. Witherspoon is a past president of the State
Bar Association and of the Lauderdale County
Bar Association. He has served as a member of the
American Bar Association House of Delegates and
the Board of Governors. In 1949 he was named as
the Mississippi representative to the National
Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State
Laws, a post which he held for 25 years.

1927

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON (See 1925.)

1938

THOMAS A. MALLOY JR., a professor at Ferris
State College in Big Rapids, Mich., spent much of
last spring doing research in Iceland. He antici-
pates retirement in June 1980, and expects to
receive a Fulbright grant for the summer and fall
of 1980 to complete his research into “The Role of
the Federation of Icelandic Cooperatives in Struc-
turing and Maintaining Social Intergration in Ice-

land.”

JOHN H. SHOAF was recently appointed honorary
vice consul and commercial attache for the Repub-
lic of Guatemala where he had served earlier with
the U. S. Embassy. He now resides in the Wood-
lands, Texas.

J. McLaINn STEWART, who resides in New York
City, is a director of McKinsey and Co., a trustee
of the World Wildlife Fund and the Memorial
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, and chairman of
Young Audiences, Inc.

1939

ARTHUR A. BEETON has returned to Lexington,
Va., after a year as project manager with the Inter-
national Civil Aviation Organization (the Air Wing
of the United Nations) in Jakarta, Indonesia.

RODNEY L. ODELL has retired as editor of The
Daily Advance in Dover, N. J., ending 45 years of
newspaper work. He was a high school reporter,
then a UP correspondent while at W&L, and after
graduation he was an Associated Press editor.
During World War II, Odell was a correspondent
with Patton’s Third Army in Europe. He won the
William the Silent Award for foreign correspon-
dents from the Dutch in 1953 for the coverage of
floods that killed 1,500 people. Odell was also a
correspondent in Vietnam. In his eight years at the
Advance, the paper won more than 65 journalism
awards. He will reside in Ship Bottom, N. J., and
do much cruising on his 30-foot motor sailer.

1940

JOHN C. (JACK) EASTERBERG is an attorney in the
corporate headquarters of Allstate Insurance Co.

 

in Northbrook, Ill. He resides on a small farm and
has interests in raising mastiffs, gardening and

riding.

CHARLES LANDRUM JR. of Lexington, Ky., has
been appointed by the Kentucky Supreme Court
as secretary of the Board of Bar Examiners. He is
also a member of the Supreme Court Judicial
Council.

1941

JAMES R. MCCONNELL is associated with the West
Virginia Armature Co. Inc., a member of the min-
ing group of Baker International Corp., in Blue-
field, W. Va. McConnell was formerly with Car-
borundum Co. and is a retired Air Force officer.

1943

WALTER R. BROWDER has been promoted by Par-
dee Construction Co. to the position of vice presi-
dent of communications. Before joining Pardee,
Browder had held several editorial positions with
trade publications in New York City. He served at
Time-Life, Inc., as assistant publisher of House &
Home Magazine, as editor and publisher of
McGraw-Hill Merchandising Week, and as editor
in chief of American Builder. In addition to his
awards for editorial achievement in publishing,
Browder has received awards from the Sales and
marketing council of San Diego Building Contrac-
tors Assoc. for the marketing of Pardee real estate
developments. He and his wife, Polly, reside in La
Jolla with their daughter, Amy.

BEN DITTO, vice president of Norton Ditto Co. in
Houston, Texas, participated as judge in the Day
of Games sponsored by the Houston Oilers and
Adams Resources and Energy Corp. Activities in-
cluded volleyball, sack racing, pass the football
relays and other sports events. In addition to Ditto
there were six other Washington and Lee men
competing in the games. The day’s activities con-
cluded with a barbecue and country-western
dance.

1944

RICHARD L. HEARD is completing 16 years with
the U. S. Department of Labor. The last seven
years he has been assigned to the regional office in
Dallas, Texas.

1949

THOMAS R. Guass of Lynchburg, publisher of The
News and The Daily Advance, was elected a direc-
tor of the Virginia Press Assoc. at the annual meet-
ing in Williamsburg on July 14, 1979.

ROBERT A. TOTTY JR. resides in Asheville, N. C.,
where he operates acoin laundry business. He and
his wife have two children.

1951

HUNTER LANE JR., a practicing attorney in Mem-

Day of Games participants are Buck
Chapoton, ‘58; Don McFall, ’64;
Lindsay Short, ’65; Buck Ogilvie, ’64;
Ben Ditto, ’43; Charles McCord, ’63;
Dan Flournoy, ‘64 (kneeling).

phis, Tenn., is in his second term as a member of
the Cook Convention Center Commission. This
commission is the board which administers the
operation of the large convention center.

1952

CLIFTON T. (TED) HUNT is a practicing patent
lawyer in Charlotte, N. C.

PAUL D. WEILL has been appointed field consul-
tant for Management and Personnel Services, a
division of Aetna Life and Casualty Co. He is
responsible for sales management training pro-
grams and field sales management schools for the
company's marketing department.

1954

Dr. ROBERT J. W. MCGEEHAN has been appointed
director of the University of Southern California’s
graduate program in international relations in
London for the 1979-80 school year. He is currently
serving as university lecturer in international rela-
tions at Oxford.

Dr. HENRY A. TURNER, chairman of the history
department at Yale, has been awarded a Rocke-
feller Foundation Humanities Fellowship to sup-
port his research on the topic of German big busi-
ness and the rise of Hitler. Turner received an
honorary degree from Washington and Lee in June
1978.

1955

THOMAS J. HOLLEY now resides in Germantown,
Tenn., and is a sales representative for Mid-South
Beverages Inc.

CHRIS A. LUHNOW resides in Monte Everest,
Mex., and is the editor and publisher of a guide
book entitled Travelers Guide to Mexico.

1957

Dr. Ross H. BAYARD was awarded the prestigious
Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award during com-
mencement exercises at Wofford College in Spar-
tanburg, S. C. Dr. Bayard received the medallion
for service to mankind and community. He has
been a member of the Wofford faculty since 1961

OLIVER C. CONGER JR., formerly of Wayne, Pa..,
will move to Palm Beach, Fla., effective Sept. 1,
1979. Conger is chairman of the insurance firm of
Evans, Conger, Broussard & McCrea of Bala Cyn-
wyd, Pa., chief executive officer of Amercon, Inc.
of Wayne, Pa., and president of Amercon Insurance
Co. of Coral Springs, Fla.

DONALD V. Farriss joined The Equitable Life
Assurance Society on July 1, 1979, as an agent in
the Lexington, Va., office. Previously he was
treasurer and director of Great Valley Builders
Inc. following an extensive career in banking in
New York and Connecticut.

  

W. R. Browder. 43

   

 

D. V. Barvts, 57

1958

THOMAS B. BRANCH III, a member of Washington
and Lee’s Board of Trustees, has recently become
a partner in the Atlanta law firm of Wildman,
Harrold, Allen, Dixon & Masinter. Branch, who
was formerly with the firm of Greene, Buckley,
DeRieux & Jones, will center his efforts in the
litigation and general practice side of the national
and international law firm.

LEwIs G. JOHN, Dean of Students at Washington
and Lee, has been elected chairman of the Joint
Committee for Control of Lexington High School.
The committee is composed of members of the
Lexington and Rockbridge County school boards,
which operates Lexington High School as a joint
county-city venture.

REv. Dr. PHILIP W. TURNER III has been ap-
pointed professor of Christian ethics for the Easter
term of the General Theological Seminary in New
York. He is presently on the faculty of the Episco-
pal Seminary of the Southwest in Austin, Texas.
Turner earned his B.D. from Virginia Theological
Seminary, a diploma in social anthropology from
Oxford and his Ph.D. from Princeton. He is
married and has three children.

1959

Dr. Roy A. BALL has been promoted to professor
of English at Clinch Valley College, a branch of the
University of Virginia. He served as director of
admissions for two years before returning to full-
time teaching. Ball holds the M.A. and Ph.D. in
English from Case Western Reserve University.
He resides in Wise, Va. with his wife, Kay, and
children, Ann and Mark.

ANTHONY J. FRANK has been elected to the board
of directors of John Broughton Associates, Inc., a
computer systems development and management
consulting firm based in Richmond, Va. Frank is a
general partner in the brokerage firm of Branch,
Cabell and Co. He is a member of the National
Security Traders Assoc., the Bond Club of Virginia,
and the Virginia Home for Boys.

ANTHONY T. TREADWAY works for North Carolina
National Bank Mortgage Corp. in Charlotte. He
and his wife have five children.

1960

THOMAS B. BRANCH (See 1958.)

B. BAYLES MACK, an attorney in Fort Mill, S. C.,
has been named a member of the Highways and
Public Transportation Commission, representing
the 16th Judicial circuit. Mack served in the U. S.
Army as a captain from 1957 to 1968 and was an
advisor for the State Selective Service System from
1972 to 1976. He is city attorney for Fort Mill;
president of Dollars and Sense Investment Co.;
president of Fort Mill Credit Bureau and president
of Key Investment Corp. He is active in the South

23

   

A. J. Frank, 59 P. G. Schmidt, 61

Carolina Democratic Party and is presently the
State Democratic executive committeeman for
York County.

1961

REv. G. P. PARDINGTON III is associate rector of
Saint Stephen’s parish in Portland, Ore. He is also
the Episcopal Chaplain to Portland State Univer-
sity and to the Medical School at the University of
Oregon. Pardington is also the dean of the local
ecumenical Pastor's Institute.

PETER G. SCHMIDT has been appointed director
of international operations for General Tire and
Rubber Company ’s chemical/plastics division. He
is responsible for all operations of the division
outside the United States, including exports and
technical agreements with overseas companies.
Schmidt joined General Tire in 1974 and was for-
merly international managing director for the Penn
Athletic Products Co., a subsidiary that is the
world’s largest tennis ball manufacturer. He re-
sides in Paris with his wife, Christine, and a son.

1962

Dr. ROBERT P. CARROLL JR. is engaged in family
medical practice in Nacogdoches, Texas. He is
secretary-treasurer of the Nacogdoches County
Medical Society; on the executive committee of
Greater East Texas Health System Agency and
chairman of its certificate of need committee.

Harry F. (RICK) KURZ, formerly director for cor-
porate business analysis with Singer, has joined
Norton Simon Inc. as director of marketing for
cosmetics and fashion. He worked earlier in mar-
keting positions with Gallo Wine Co., Interna-
tional Paper Co. and Scott Paper Co. He resides in
New York City.

VINCENT T. (BILL) LATHBURY III has recently
become senior vice president and director of Fixed
Income Securities with INA Capital Management
Corp. of Philadelphia, Pa.

ALLAN B. PAINTER is associated with Heritage
Real Estate, a Gallery of Homes franchise in
Staunton.

1964
MARRIAGE: KENNETH P. LANE JR. to Deborah
Elaine de Hartman on July 7, 1979, in Lexington,
Va. The couple will reside in Lexington where
Mrs. Lane is a special education teacher for Rock-
bridge County and Lane is the after-care coordina-
tor for the Rockbridge Mental Health Clinic.

STEPHEN J. COLVIN and his wife, Kathleen, have
formed Colvin Communications, a public relations
and market services agency specializing in pro-
grams for the industrial, financial and real estate
industries. The office is located in Westchester,
Ill. The Colvins reside in Arlington Heights with
their two sons, Casey and Justin.

24

   

 

R. O. Coyle, 64

ROBERT O. COYLE has been named a vice presi-
dent of Booz-Allen and Hamilton Inc., a manage-
ment consulting, technology and market research
firm. He is based in the firm’s Abu Dhabi office
and is a leader in Booz-Allen’s work in the pe-
troleum industry. Coyle joined the firm in 1977
and has worked in Europe and Algiers.

WYATT B. DURRETTE JR., attorney and a former
member of the Virginia House of Delegates from
northern Virginia, is directing the International
Year of the Child activities for the Virginia Division
of Children. Durrette will participate in many of
these programs with his six children, one of which
is an adopted Korean daughter. The family resides
in Vienna, Va.

1965
REV. THOMAS T. CRENSHAW is minister of the
Cedar Park Presbyterian Church in Philadelphia,
Pa. Crenshaw also directs three day camps includ-
ing one for retarded and handicapped children and
one for pre-schoolers. He and his wife have four

children.

1966

MERCER K. CLARKE is a partner in the Miami law
firm of Smathers and Thompson. He is president
of the Gulfstream Chapter of W&L Alumni.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHRISTOPHER F. ARM-
STRONG, a daughter, Rebecca Stonestreet, on June

22, 1979. The family resides in Catawissa, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. ZINK III, a
daughter, Laura Spencer, on July 19, 1979, in
Baltimore, Md.

JOHN S. GRAHAM III and JAMes H. Price III
became partners on Jan. 1, 1979, in the law firm of
Browder, Russell, Little, Morris and Butcher, in
Richmond, Va.

Jon A. KERR is a partner in the Washington, D. C.
law firm of Hudson, Creyle, Koehler, Tacke &
Bixler. He specializes in government construction
contract litigation and land development.

Dr. LEROY W. KRUMPERMAN JR. is practicing
anesthesia in Hartford, Conn., and coaching youth
league soccer. He and his wife, Christine, have
two children: Todd, 6 and Jill, 3.

1968
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. COLOM, a
daughter, Caroline Elizabeth, on March 9, 1979.
This is the second daughter for the Coloms, who
reside in Mystic, Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT T. MILLER, ason,
Robert Tipton Jr., on June 15, 1979. His maternal
grandfather is William White, 32. The family

resides in Coatesville, Pa., where Miller is benefits
administrator for Lukens Steel Co.

JosEPH G. SEAy was elected a partner of Peat,
Marwick, Mitchell and Co. on July 1, 1979. He
joined the firm in Dallas in 1970 and transferred to.
the Jacksonville office in 1976. Seay received his
M.B.A. in finance from the University of Texas.

PETER W. TOOKER is safety director for Plateau
Resources, Ltd. in Grand Junction, Colo.

1969
MARRIAGE: JOHN F. CARRERE JR. and Claire
Meadows of Providence, R. I., on June 22, 1979.
After receiving his masters degree from Harvard
Business School in June, Carrere became associ-
ated with Lykes Bros. Steamship Co., Inc. The
couple resides in New Orleans, La.

R. STEPHEN PANNILL was elected vice president
of finance of the First National Bank of Martins-
ville, Va. He joined First National in 1972. Pannill
has served as a director and treasurer of the Patrick
Henry Community College Scholarship Founda-
tion, as a director of the Martinsville Jaycees and is
currently on the Select Citizens Committee for
the proposed hydroelectric dam project.

CARL J. STEINBRENNER received his law degree
from the Dickinson School of Law in Carlisle, Pa.,
in June 1979.

1970
DAVID M. BETHEA received his Ph. D. in 1977 and
is now dean of the Russian School at Middlebury
College. He received a 12-month grant from the
National Endowment for the Humanities to com-
plete a book in progress. Bethea and his wife, Kim,
reside on a small farm in Cornwall, Vt.

JOHN H. ZINK III (See 1967.)

MARRIAGE: WILLnM A. GATLIN III and Daphne
Drennon, on April 7, 1979, in Jacksonville, Fla.

MARRIAGE: JAMES C. REEVES III and Mary
Marcy Jones on June 9, 1979, in Lexington. Jess L.
Reeves Jr., 75, and Hugh J. M. Jones III, 69L,
were members of the wedding party.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRAD WRIGHT, a son,
Philip Bradfield, on May 15, 1979. This is the
Wrights’ second child. The family resides in Hous-
ton where Wright is in his second term in the
Texas House of Representatives.

ALBERT ANGRISANI has been promoted to vice
president of the Chase Manhattan Bank in New
York where he is director of planning for the trust
and investment department. He has been elected
a borough councilman in his home, Bernardsville,

  
   
  

N. J. Angrisani also is a director of the Somerset
County Governing Officials Assoc.

JOHN G. CROMMELIN III is a vice president with
W. Dobbs and Co., investment bankers in Atlanta.

J. FRANCIS ROSE, in collaboration with photo-
grapher George Bennett, has written a book, Real
Men, which will be published by Doubleday &
Co. in early 1980. The book concerns styles of
masculinity and profiles seven different men. The
profile ofa recently graduated V.M.I. cadet will be
excerpted in Esquire. Rose resides in New York
where he writes for The Village Voice and other
publications.

EMIL J. SADLOCH JR. is an associate writer with
Didactic Systems Inc., a training and management
consulting firm in Cranford, N. J. Sadloch recently
competed in the Jersey Shore Marathon, his first
marathon race.

1972

MARRIAGE: JAMES S. MCCaANnegE and Elizabeth L.
Loeb on May 27, 1979, in St. Louis. Stephen T.
McCane, 77, brother of the groom, served as best
man. Edward W. Coslett III, ’70, and William S.
Ingersoll, "71, were members of the wedding. The
couple resides near West Chester, Pa. NIcCane is
a field representative for Paul Restall Co: in Media.
His bride is a biologist with Betz-Converse-Mur-
doch Inc. of Plymouth Meeting.

MARRIAGE: JOHN P. MELLO and Margo Pauli of
Neenah, Wis., on June 23, 1979, in Osterville,
Mass. Among the wedding party were ’72 class-
mates: Alan D. Frazer, Charles W. Pride, and
Lynn D. Durham Jr. Mello will enter the M.B.A.
program at the Whittemare School of Business and
Economics at the University of New Hampshire.
Mrs. Mello will be a vocational counselor at the
Great Bay School and Training Center. The couple
resides in Newmarket, N. H.

MARRIAGE: MERYL D. Moore and Joyce Jones
on Aug. 5, 1978, in Hampton, Va. Moore is associ-
ated with the law firm of Jones, Blechman, Woltz
and Kelly in Newport News.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. BROOKBY, a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on July 13, 1979.
Brookby is assistant vice president of Wachovia
Bank & Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N. C.

BIRTH: MR. and Mrs. DONALD B. CARTWRIGHT,
a daughter, Alison Rae, on Dec. 10, 1978. Cart-
wright resides in Columbia, Md., where he works
for the Rouse Co., a national real estate develop-
ment firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HARRISON KECK, a
son, John Harrison Jr., on Feb. 10, 1979. The
family resides in Laredo, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GLEN P. MATTOX, a

0°72.

daughter, Lindsay Anne, on Feb. 12, 1979, in
Laurel, Md.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE E. MorHOUS,
a son, Lawrence Hunter, on Aug. 6, 1979, in
Bluefield, W. Va. Morhous is an attorney with the
firm of Hudgins, Coulling and Brewster.

LEx O. MCMILLAN III is editor of Amicus, the
journal of the National Center for Law and the
Handicapped. He resides in South Bend, Ind.,
and is working also on his doctorate in English at
Notre Dame.

DON WEIR JR. is engaged in the professional de-
velopment training program at the Arkansas
Louisiana Gas Co. in Shreveport, La.

1973
MARRIAGE: JAMES H. Cxiapp and Amy Shafer
Neilson on July 22, 1978. Clapp was appointed
assistant states attorney for Frederick County,
Md., in May 1979. He is also an associate with the
Frederick law firm of Shoemaker and Smith.

MARRIAGE: WILSON C. MERCHANT and Daniela
Poleksic on Aug. 27, 1978. Merchant began a resi-
dency in urology on July 1, 1979, at the Baylor
College of Medicine in Houston.

BIRTH: Mr. and MRs. JOHN A. CONRAD, twins,
John Anthony Jr. and Anne Curran, on July 26,
1979, in Charlottesville. Conrad practices law in
Waynesboro, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. WILLIAM DAVIS, a
daughter, Margaret Kramer, on July 23, 1979, in
Bluefield, W. Va. Davis is a partner in the law firm
of Richardson, Kemper and Hancock.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD H. MIDDLETON
Jr., a daughter, Elizabeth Logan, on July 25, 1979.
This is the second child for the Middletons who
reside in Savannah, Ga.

WILLIAM P. BALLARD JR. has been named vice
president of Harvey Lindsay Co. Realtors in Nor-
folk, Va. which deals in commercial and industrial
properties.

ROBERT P. BARLOW isa second year student at the
University of New Mexico School of Medicine in
Albuquerque. He was elected to the school’s
steering committee and works during the summer
at the Student Health Center.

WILLIAM T. BARRETT is the director of paralegal
studies at Wesley College in Dover, Del.

ROBERT T. BRUYERE is associated with the archi-
tectural firm of Hellmuth, Obata & Kassabaum
Inc., in Dallas, Texas.

Joun W. Fousom has been appointed vice presi-
dent in charge of mortgage lending for South Caro-

| At the wedding of John Mello, ’72, are

| Alan D. Frazier, 72; Mrs. Frazier;

_ Charles W. Pride, 72; Mrs. Mello; John

| Mello; Mrs. Lynn Durham; Lynn Durham

   

J. W. Folsom, "73

lina Federal Savings and Loan Assoc., the largest
savings and loan company in the state. Previously,
he was vice president and manager of Service
Mortgage Corp., a subsidiary of South Carolina
Federal. Folsom earned the M.B.S. from the Uni-
versity of South Carolina in 1974.

PETER J. FUREY is deputy director of the Pinelands
Environmental Council, an agency responsible for
protecting the natural resources of New Jersey's
Pine Barrens from excessive development. He
specializes in assisting county and municipal gov-
ernments in reviewing proposals for new residen-
tial developments.

ELLis L. GUTSHALL has been named a division
leader for the Central YMCA membership drive in
Roanoke. He is a vice president of First Virginia
Bank.

JOHN A. STEINHAUER earned his M.B.A. in ac-
counting at North Texas State University. He is
assistant tax manager of Southland Real Estate
Resources Inc. in Dallas.

1974

MARRIAGE: JAMEs D. FARRAR JR. to Katharine
Eskew Capito on June 30, 1979 in Charleston,
W. Va. Among the ushers were D. Scott Farrar,
76, C. Russell Fletcher, ’74, Glenn R. Moore, ’69,
Martin E. Stein Jr., 74, and William P. Wallace,
74, ‘“77L. The couple will reside at the Episcopal
High School in Alexandria where Farrar is a teach-
er, coach, and assistant director of admissions.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN K. FENDRICH, twin
sons, Jacob Andrew and Michael Louis, on Jan. 5,
1979. Fendrich is sales manager of WWWV-FM
Radio in Charlottesville, Va.

RAY-ERIC CORREA was appointed assistant direc-
tor of the Fleming School in July 1979. He also has
served as admissions director, administrative co-
ordinator and French teacher. The Fleming School
is an independent French-American School in
Manhattan with 550 students and 80 faculty mem-
bers. Correa is also pursuing his doctorate in
French with work at New York University.

ANDREW C. GoRESH has been promoted to direc-
tor of employee relations for Hanes DSD, the
direct store delivery division of Hanes Corp. in
Winston-Salem. He joined the L’eggs Products
division in 1977 as the manager of personnel ad-
ministration. Goresh and his wife, Pamela, reside
in Advance, N. C.

DuNCAN S. KLINEDINST graduated from law
school at the University of Virginia in May 1978.
He resides in Bethesda, Md., and is associated
with the law firm of Hogan and Hartson in Wash-
ington, D. C.

Ray CuRTIS STEELE JR. has been promoted from
assistant general attorney to manager of labor rela-

25

  

tions for the Norfolk and Western Railway. He
resides in Richmond.

MATTHEW Towns has been elected a mortgage
officer of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in Raleigh,
N. C. He is also an active volunteer with neigh-
borhood and district Boy Scouts of America groups.
Towns joined Wachovia Bank in 1977 after working
with Wachovia Mortgage Co.

EDWIN O. WILEY earned his degree in May 1979
from the Fairleigh Dickinson University Dental
School. He is now practicing in Hewitt, N. J.

JOHN ZAMOISKI, formerly of Washington, D. C.,
is now in New York City where he is regional
marketing director for Combined Shows Inc.,
owners of Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey
Circus, Holiday on Ice, the International Circus
Festival of Monte Carlo Spectacular and the Ice
Follies. He travels extensively in Europe and
throughout the United States.

1975

MARRIAGE: W. BENJAMIN MCCLAIN JR. and
Mary Aline Allston on July 21, 1979, in Hartsville,
S. C. Lang Donkle, 74, and Gregg Ammonette,
"75, attended the wedding. McClain and his bride
are senior law students at the University of South
Carolina in Columbia. He is also a senior law clerk
in the office of the state attorney general.

JEFFREY H. BOTHEN is a public relations repre-
sentative for Health Care Financial Consultants, a
California based fund raising organization. Bothen
served for a time as a first lieutenant with the U.S.
Marine Corps.

DUNCAN DEGRAFF has been promoted to head of
the Houston sales territory for Random House
Inc. Previously, DeGraff has held assignments in
New York, Pittsburgh, and Omaha.

JOHN R. EMBREE, former tennis pro at Boonesboro
County Club in Lynchburg, is now an account
executive for an apparel consulting firm. The firm
markets software computer packages for the ap-
parel industry. He continues to reside in Lynch-

burg.

PauL M. FLEMING has rejoined The Martin
Agency Inc., an advertising, public relations and
market research firm in Richmond.

JESSE THOMAS MANN is a graduate instructor in
French and working on his doctorate at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He had been teaching in Ports-
mouth, Va.

KENNETH L. MINK Jr. is vice president of his
family’s oriental rug firm. In August 1979, he is
opening a new branch in Stewart's Department
Store of Louisville, Ky.

ROBERT G. MORECOCK is Assistant Common-
wealth Attorney for the City of Virginia Beach, Va.

26

PETER J. SCHNEIDER is completing his Ph.D. in
anatomy at the University of Virginia. He expects
to enter the University of Virginia Medical School
in September 1979.

PRESTON R. SIMPSON graduated from Vanderbilt
Medical School in May 1979. He is now performing
a first-year residency in pathology at the University
of Texas Southwestern/Parkland Memorial Hospi-
tal in Dallas.

B. HARRISON TURNBULL has been elected vice
president of his business school class at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He will graduate in May 1980.

JAMES WILSON has been named general manager
of the daily Mount Vernon Democrat in Mount
Vernon, Ind. by Landmark Communications. He
was advertising manager of the Galax (Va.) Gazette.

1976
MARRIAGE: JOHN R. HENZEL Jr. and Judy
Denise Hulsey on March 31, 1979, in Clarkesville,
Ga. Henzel is an administrator at Maranathox
Chapel in Athens, Ga., where he is training for the
ministry. He had been enrolled in a doctoral pro-
gram in finance at the University of Georgia.

MARRIAGE: KENNETH G. MACDONALD Jr. and
Jane Ethel Miller of Pittsburgh, Pa., on May 19,
1979, at Amelia Island Plantation on Amelia Island,
Fla. Among the wedding party were: Andrew R.
Harvin, "76, Theodore C. Merrick, 76, Frank D.
MacDonald, brother, and Dr. Kenneth G. Mac-
Donald Sr., 36. Others attending were classmates
James A. Mercy, David W. Denny, William Tiers,
Breck Ingles, James C. Gould, David J. Knack,
Richard O. Whitaker; E. S. “Ford” Williams, °75,
and Robert W. Jones, 77. The groom is in his third
year at the West Virginia University Medical
School. The bride, a 1978 graduate of Randolph
Macon Woman’s College, has completed man-
agerial training school with J. C. Penney Co. The
couple will reside in Charleston, W. Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KILLIS T. HOWARD, ason,
Killis Carrington on Oct. 6, 1978. Howard is prac-
ticing law in Lynchburg, Va., with William Rosen-
berger Jr.

MICHAEL M. CHRISTOVICH graduated magna cum
laude from Tulane Law School in May. He was a
member of the Tulane Law Review and was named
to the Order of the Coif. He is now associated with
the New Orleans law firm of Christovich and Kear-
ney.

CRAIG H. COLLER graduated cum laude from the
University of Miami School of Law on June 3,
1979. He is now an assistant county attorney for
Dade County in Miami.

BARRY ELLIS has begun his senior year of medical
school at the Medical College of Georgia in Au-
gusta. In July he attended an ear-nose-throat sur-
gical rotation program in Tacoma, Wash.

At the wedding of Robert Couch, ’78, are (first row) an unidentified
guest; Kim Ratliff, °76; Murry McClintock, ‘80; Mrs. Couch; Robert
Couch; Billy Webster, 79; Mike Airheart, ‘78. (back row) Ed Edge,
81; Jimmy Walter, ’78; Richard Drennan, ‘81; Clay Crumbliss, ’80;
Walter Kansteiner, 77; Paul Brock, ‘78; Alfred Robinson, ‘77; Stowe
Rose, 79; Tom Murphy, °77; Jim McClintock, ‘78; Holman Head, 78;

| , Bobby Pugh, ’76; Richard Everett, 77; Chip Sites, 78; Miller Kennedy,
Fa 138; Donny Smith, °78; Richard Taylor, ‘78.

BENJAMIN M. PHILLIPS III earned the M.B.A.
from Rutgers University in May 1979.

lst Lr. ROBERT D. PropsT isa fire support officer
for the First Ranger Battalion of the 75th Infantry
at Hunter Army Airfield, Savannah, Ga.

DAVID C. WARREN is working for Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell and Co. in Roanoke, Va.

Dr. RICHARD O. WHITAKER graduated in June
1979 from the University of Georgia College of
Veterinary Medicine. He is practicing with the
Ashby Animal Clinic in Harrisonburg, Va.

RICHARD H. MIDDLETON Jr. (See 1973.)

1977

MARRIAGE: RICHARD L. LOVEGROVE and Cla-
rissa Gay Sykes on July 28, 1979, in Roanoke.
W&L men in the wedding included the groom's
father, C. Richard Lovegrove, 53, Reid H. Griffin,
‘77, and John L. Jackely, °77. Lovegrove manages
the Shenandoah Bureau in Lexington of the Roa-
noke Times and World-News.

MARRIAGE: GLEN A. WASHINGTON and Mary
Gallegher on July 28, 1979, in Niagara Falls, N. Y. |
Washington is doing his residency work in hospital
administration at Georgia Western State Hospital
in LaGrange. His bride teaches nursing at La-
Grange College.

WILLIAM J. CoPLE III completed his second year
at St. John’s University School of Law where he
was editor of the Law Review. He has been selected
as the St. Thomas More Legal Scholar with a full-
tuition scholarship for his senior year in law school.
This summer of 1979 he is working in the Pentagon
in Washington, D. C., as an associate with the
office of General Counsel to the Secretary of De-
fense.

MICHAEL E. Forry is working in Los Angeles in
the international corporate office of Manufacturers
Hanover Trust. He is a lending officer and is resid-
ing in Brea, Calif.

Ltr. MARSHALL K. SNYDER completed a 15 month
tour of duty in Okinawa and is now stationed at the
headquarters of the Fleet Marine Force Atlantic in
Norfolk as a staff officer.

1978

MARRIAGE: ROBERT M. Couc# and Anne Emack
on Dec. 30, 1978, in Birmingham, Ala. Among the
groomsmen were: Holman Head, ‘78, Jim Mc-
Clintock, "78, Stowe Rose, 79, Paul Brock, ‘78
Billy Webster, "79, Tom Murphy, ‘79, Robert
Pugh, ’76. Couch, employed by Arkansas Best
Corp. in Ft. Smith, Ark., recently entered W&L
Law School as a first-year student.

MARRIAGE: DoucLas R. Dorsey and Susan Ann
Boardwine on Aug. 18, 1979, in Salem, Va. Charles
N. Dorsey, "79L, and Jeffrey L. Dorsey, °82,

 

brothers of the groom, were members of the
wedding. Dorsey is a medical student at the Uni-
versity of Virginia where his bride is a graduate
student in speech pathology.

MARRIAGE: ROBERT Q. JONES JR. to Ann Thrash
on March 31, 1979, in Atlanta, Ga. The couple
resides in Kirchgeons, West Germany, where
Jones is a lieutenant with the United States Army.

MARRIAGE: Kurt CALVIN Russ and Linda Carol
Anderson on June 9, 1979, in Buena Vista, Va.
Charles L. Hall, 78, was an usher. Russ will enter
graduate school at the University of Tennessee in

the fall of 1979.

MARRIAGE: GALEN TAIT TRUSSELL and Cath-
erine Buck Coleman on April 14, 1979, in Winter
Haven, Fla. Trussell is a reporter with the Green-
ville (S.C.) News Piedmont.

MARRIAGE: STEVEN C. YEAKEL and Mary Eliza-
beth Martin on Aug. 4, 1979, in Lexington. D.
Page Kelley III, 78, and John E. Byers, 78, were
members of the wedding. The couple will reside in
Fairfield, Va. Yeakel is a field worker for the Re-
publican Party of Virginia.

ee
MARK E. BENNETT is a first-year law student at
John Marshall Law School in Chicago III.

a
MarK H. DERBYSHIRE resides in Lexington and
works as a child protective service worker for the
Rockbridge Area Social Services.

JOHN C. GORDEN is working in cash operations of
the treasury department for Coastal States Gas
Corp., a national and international supplier of
crude oil and refinery products. Gorden assists in
cash flow analysis for the corporation and several
subsidiaries. He resides in Houston.

G. CARTER GREER is working as a paralegal assis-
tant with his father’s law firm of Greer and Alexan-
der in Rocky Mount, Va. He plans to enter law
school in the fall of 1979.

K. LEE Howarb is news editor for the daily Dan-
ville Register in Danville, Va. He also writes occa-
sional columns, features and special assignments
stories.

DOUGLAS E. JOHNSTON JR. completed the man-
agement trainee program and is working in the
international department of Wachovia Bank and
Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N. C.

F. RAYMOND MCINTYRE III has joined the First
National Bank of Atlanta as a management associ-
ate.

STEPHEN E. MATTESKY has been named to the
board of student editors of the Tulane Law Review.

He is a second-year student at the law school.

RICHARD W. STEWART is a management trainee

Robert Q. Jones Jr., ‘78, and his
bride after Atlanta wedding.

with the National Division at Manufacturers Han-
over Trust Company in New York City.

MICHAEL M. WALLIS completed his first year of
law school at Stetson University, where he was
elected to the Legislative Council of the Student
Bar Association and won a third place award for
oral advocacy in freshman moot court competition.

ROBERT G. MORECOCK (See 1975.)

MARRIAGE: JAMES S. S. OBERHOLTZER and
Dena Testa on Aug. 3, 1979, in Lexington. They
reside in Chicago, where Oberholtzer practices
law.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. RIKER PURCELL, a
daughter, Charlotte Brooke, on June 18, 1979.
Purcell has joined the law firm of Oliver, Maner &
Gray in Savannah, Ga.

ROBERT BRUCE HILL has become associated with
the Petersburg, Va., law firm of Cummings, Cooley
and Dicks. Benjamin B. Cummings Jr., 67, "70L,
is also a member of the firm.

J. FRASER HUMPHREYS III will work for a year as
an aide in the Washington office of Senator Howard
Baker (R-Tenn.).

 

In Memoriam

 

Louis DAMARIN GREGG died June 12, 1979. At
the time of his death he was residing with his son in

Hixson, Tenn.

1913

Dr. WILLIAM TAYLOR THOM Jr. (See article this
issue).

1916

JOHN BARTLEY ARROWOOD of Candor, N. C.,
died July 8, 1979, in the Veterans Hospital in
Salisbury. He was a veteran of World War I and a
retired professor. Arrowood was a member of the
Masonic Corinthian Lodge in Greensboro.

THOMAS A. (QUILL) MYLES, a prominent attorney
and outstanding civic leader of Fayetteville, W.
Va., died July 12, 1979, after along illness. He was
a former mayor of the town. Myles served Wash-
ington & Lee in many ways and was a former
president of the Tri-State Alumni Chapter which
was headquartered in Fayetteville. He had been
senior partner and retired from Myles, Myles,
Conrad & Hatcher. Myles engaged in a number of
community activities since beginning practice

there in 1916 and he held many civic offices.

1918

BENJAMIN FLOURNOY TILLAR died July 11, 1979,
in Emporia, Va. While at Washington and Lee,
Tillar was president of the student body and a
member of ODK. He served as an officer in the
United States Navy in World War I; joined W. T.
Tillar Hardware Co., in 1918 and served as its
president from 1927 until his death. Tillar was a
charter member of the American Legion Bulla
Post 46 and served as commander and lifetime
member for over 50 years. During World War II,
he organized the Virginia Protective Force after
the National Guard was called to active duty. Tillar
was past president of the Emporia Chamber of
Commerce; past vice president and director of
Citizens National Bank; former member of the
Emporia Town Council; a member of the Emporia
Presbyterian Church; a charter member of its
Trustee Board; and had a 50-year perfect attend-
ance at its Sunday School. Tillar was president of
the Emporia Federal Savings and Loan Association
for 40 years, retiring in 1977.

1923

BERNARD R. KENNEDY, a former government law-
yer who was the first director of the Federal Regis-
ter, died July 10, 1979, in Chevy Chase, Md.
Kennedy became the first director of the Division
of Federal Register at the National Archives in
September 1935. His job was to oversee the
prompt and uniform printing and distribution of
government laws and documents. Kennedy retired
in 1958 as head of the National Archives’ records of
the General Services Administration. He also
worked for the Securities Exchange Commission
before becoming director of the Federal Register.

1924

THOMAS PERNELL DUNCAN JR., a prominent
businessman and inventor, died July 11, 1979, in
Newport News, Va. Duncan patented numerous
inventions, ranging from the Duncan All-in-One
golf club to the Dri-Lox women’s bathing cap. For
a time, he served on the Newport News Board.of
Real Estate Assessors. Duncan practiced law only
a short time but remained a member of the Virginia
State Bar Assoc. until his death. He was engaged
in real estate and other business throughout his
adult life and helped develop the Riverside area in
Newport News. His other inventions involved light
bulbs, bottle caps, and porch mats to hold news-
papers. In 1973 he created and funded the Thomas
P. Duncan Jr. Foundation, the purpose of which
was to conserve and protect historic Purton Island
in Gloucester County in its natural state in per-
petuity. As a sportsman, he was active in hunting
and fishing circles and owned hunting property in
Gloucester County. Duncan was appointed to the
first Board of Real Estate Assessors of the consoli-
dated City of Newport News. He was a life member
of the Jamestown Society and a member of the
William and Mary Endowment Board.

27

 

REED ENFIELD GRAVES, a retired president and
treasurer of Campbell and Graves Co. Inc., a heavy
construction firm in Lynchburg, Va., died Dec.
16, 1978. Graves had a strong interest in thorough-
bred horse shows and was a judge of the American
Horse Shows Assoc. and the Virginia Thorough-
bred Assoc. He was a former director of the
Boonesboro Country Club of Lynchburg and
founder of the Bedford County Hunt Club. Graves
was a former president of the Lynchburg Alumni
Chapter.

JAMES VENABLE LOGAN JR., a retired professor of
English at Ohio State University since 1971, died
June 25, 1979. Prior to his appointment at Ohio
State, he had held teaching positions at Eastern

state's attorney for Frederick County.

Kentucky State Teachers College, the University
of Pittsburgh, Kansas State Teachers College at
Emporia, and Princeton University. Logan’s first
scholarly publication, The Poetry and Aesthetics of
Erasmus Darwin, was published by the Princeton
University Press. He was best known for his work
in the Romantic period of English literature.
Among his publications were Wordworthian
Criticism (1961), and numerous articles and con-
tributions to the bibliography of the Romantic
Movement.

1926

CLARENCE EDWARD PFAU, a retired salesman for
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Co., died
Feb. 12, 1979.

Robert E. Clapp Jr., ’30, chief judge of the
Sixth Judicial Circuit of Maryland, swears
in his son, James H. Clapp, 73, as assistant

1927

ROBERT THOMAS FOREE JR., a former employee
with General Electric Supply Co. in Louisville,
Ky., and a prominent and longtime real estate
dealer, died May 29, 1979, in Louisville. Foree
was associated with Bruce Hoblitzell Real Estate
Co. He was a member of the Toppers Club.

1931

James H. C.iark, past president of the Dallas
Museum of Fine Arts and one of the city’s most
prominent art collectors died July 23, 1979, in
Carmel, Calif., at his summer home. Clark was a
former member of the Alumni Board of Directors
of Washington and Lee University. His personal

 

by M. Gray Coleman, ’79

Assistant Director of Publications

Long, Long
Tale of W&L's
Two Thoms

Father-Son Relationship
With the University
Stretches from R.E. Lee
to R. E. R. Huntley

“I want to continue at school if possible
next year and I expect the Professors will fix
up the College & carry on the school as they
did before the war if allowed to do so by the

Yanks...”
—William Taylor Thom, in a letter to his
father dated May 21, 1865.

“Td like to thank you for giving W&L a
sense of direction and mission, such as has
been lost by so many ‘affluent’ multiversi-
ties—that have, in securing much wealth,

‘lost their own souls’ (in my estimation). . .”
—William Taylor Thom, Jr., in a letter
to W&L President Robert E. R.
Huntley dated June 3, 1970.

The death on May 22 of Dr. William Tay-
lor Thom Jr. underscores the record of one
of Washington and Lee’s prominent teams of
father-and-son alumni. A 1913 engineering
major, Dr. Thom was the son of one of “Gen-
eral Lee’s boys,” William Taylor Thom
(B.A., 1869; M.A., 1870). Their combined
interest in Washington and Lee totals more
than 110 years—and now, through the gen-
erosity of “young Dr. Thom’s” daughter,
Mrs. Elizabeth Bolster, an extensive collec-
tion of the son's letters will join those of his
father, a part of the University Library's
special collections since 1948.

Dr. Thom Jr., Blair Professor of Geology
and chairman of the geology department at
Princeton University until his retirement in
1956, was regarded both nationally and in-
ternationally as one of the most outstanding
Americans in his field. He received his

 

Dr. William Taylor Thom Jr.

Ph.D. degree in geology from Johns Hopkins
in 1917 and soon became recognized as an
authority in all matters relating to coal and
oil-bearing lands. Princeton claimed him for
its faculty in 1927; two years later, however,
he was to travel to Montana to found the
Yellowstone-Big Horn Research Association.
In collaboration with eight other professors
from seven major universities in the United
States, Thom chose the area as a field for
research because of the unusual opportuni-

 

 

art collection included the most important works
by the Dutch artist Piet Mondrain. In 1977 Clark
and his wife gave the Dallas Museum a 1924 marble
sculpture by the Rumanian-born Constantin
Brancusi entitled Beginning of the World. In 1951
Clark went to Dallas with the Investment Man-
agement Corp. and Murchison Brothers Co. and
in 1958 turned exclusively to his personal invest-
ments and art collection. During World War II he
served in the U. S. Navy and retired as a lieutenant
commander. Clark served on the board of directors
of Texas Industries in Dallas; Keebler Co. of Elm-
hurt, Ill.; and Bankers Life Insurance Co. of Lin-
coln, Neb.

WILLIAM OTEY THOMAS, industrialist and busi-
nessman of Bedford, Va., died July 22, 1979.

Thomas was chairman of the Board of Directors of
the Piedmont Label Co., which manufactures
labels distributed internationally. He formerly was
president of the company of which his father was
one of the founders and first presidents. Thomas,
along with his brother, Dr. John Newton Thomas,
"24, and other members of his family, established a
professorship of Bible at Washington and Lee in
1977 in memory of their father. Thomas was active
in civic and church affairs and an elder of the
Bedford Presbyterian Church. He was a member
of the Bedford County School Board and served as
chairman for several years.

1936

HARRIS EWALT ANDERSON, a retired Air Force

WesL travelers on a recent alumni Rhine River cruise
trip include Ed Turville, (36; Mrs. Turville; Ernest
Woodward, ’40; Mrs. Woodward. They are at dinner
at the Munich Sheraton.

lieutenant colonel and a resident of Babson Park,
Fla., died June 8, 1979. Col. Anderson was also a
licensed funeral director and spent his years of
retirement assisting local funeral homes, and serv-
ing on the town council. He was a long-time mem-
ber of the National Association of Watch and Clock
Collectors, and was an expert*in the repair of
antique timepieces.

WILLIAM RUEGER III, an insurance executive who
was active in Tidewater insurance circles for many
years before his retirement in 1977 from Marsh &
McLennan, Inc., died Feb. 17, 1979, in Norfolk,
Va. For 23 years he was president of Norfolk Justice
Insurance Agency before that firm merged with
Marsh & McLennan. He was an avid sportsman

 

ties it offered for solving problems in moun-
tain origin and crustal formation.

Born in Roanoke in 1891, Thom’s early
interests were varied; his first employment
was as a U.S. Senate page in 1907. His
geological appointments and writings were
numerous and important, including service
with the U.S. Geological Survey and a book,
Petroleum and Coal—The Keys to the Fu-
ture, first published in 1929. A Fellow of the
World Academy of Arts and Sciences, he
continued his scholarly writings almost until
his death.

His 1970 letter to President Huntley
shows that “young Dr. Thom’s” interest in
W&L also remained active through the years
—a trait he shared with his father, who was
one of the first students to return to a badly
damaged Washington College after the Civil
War. William Taylor Thom was too young to
serve the Confederacy in the war; he had
been born in Fauquier County, Va., in 1849.
Even so, the boy was considered of sufficient
age to attend college as soon as hostilities
ceased, and the letters he wrote to his father
during his years in Lexington form one of
the most interesting collections from the
period.

The elder Thom’s arrival on the campus
preceded his son’s by some 44 years; more
noteworthy is the fact that he managed to
beat General Lee to the College as well. The
earliest of the letters from the youth to his
father, dated May 21, 1865, makes no men-
tion of the Confederate hero. Rather, it
shows concern for the family’s shattered for-

 

Dr. Thom Jr. ona field trip in the Yellowstone-

Big Horn area on his first trip to the region in
1914.

tunes, little more than a month after the
surrender at Appomattox:

“I hope your valuables have not [been]
touched by the Yanks, but suppose you have
lost very heavily in goods . . . What do you
expect to do? Do you think of leaving the
country or expect to stay and try to cultivate
the Black Stump farm? I would dislike ex-

ceedingly to leave the country but I don't
want to live under Yankee rule. . .”

A second letter, dated August 9, 1865, is
the first mention of that all-important deci-
sion for the future of Washington College:

“The Board of Trustees for the College
met last week and. . . elected Genl. R. E.
Lee President, and Judge Brockenbrough,
one of the committee, has gone to see if the
Genl. will accept the position. If he does so,
it will be a great thing for College, about the
best thing which could be done. . .” (Judge
Brockenbrough was the head of the Lexing-
ton Law School, the institution which in 1866
became affiliated with Washington College—
and later Washington and Lee's School of
Law—at Lee’s own suggestion.)

Domestic affairs dominate in another
message from son to father, dated September
5, 1865 (including the young man’s interest
in a Lexington “lady friend” named Phebe
. . .). But just before the signature is a casual
addition: “General Lee has accepted the
presidency of the College’ —valuable after-
thought, indeed.

Perhaps the best portrait of everyday
student life under Lee’s administration in
the collection is this selection, dated March
19, 1866:

“T have a very pleasant time here. I think
all the Profs that I recite to like me. . . the
nicest set of fellows in College around me.
Pleasant lady friends and acquaintances in
town. . . A great deal to be thankful for, but

 

29

In Memoriam

and a member of the Princess Anne Country Club
and the Harbour Club.

1939

HAROLD EDWARD (FLASH) HARVEY died July 25,
1979, after a long illness in the Hartford Memorial
Hospital in Havre de Grace, Md. While at W&L,
Harvey had an outstanding track record and was
named to the track Hall of Fame. He was also a
member of ODK. Harvey served in World War II
from 1941 to 1946 as navigator and bombardier in
the Army Air Force, retiring as a lieutenant
colonel. He raised quarter horses on Little Pine
Farms near Darlington, Md., and was employed
as a sales representative for Catalina Inc. Harvey
was a trustee of the Harmony Presbyterian Church
in Darlington, and a director of Deer Creek

Watershed Association. Internment was in Floyd
County, Va.

1940

HARRY BURNET STODDART died July 8, 1979, in
Hershey, Pa. After serving in the U. S. Navy for
four years, retiring as lieutenant commander, he
had been in the advertising business for 25 years in
New York and in Detroit, Mich. He retired from
Campbell Ewald Advertising Co. in Detroit as
vice president of the firm in 1971. He was the
owner of My Wife’s Antiques Inc. in Hershey at
the time of his death.

1952

AUGUST ROPKE BODEN JR. of Louisville, Ky., died

July 7, 1979. Boden was president of Cowger and
Miller Mortgage Co. Inc. and associated with Mit-
chell, Whelan & Henson Certified Public Ac-
countants. He was a Navy veteran of the Korean
War. Boden was a member of the Mortgage Bank-
ers Assoc. of America, the Kentucky Society of
Certified Public Accountants, and the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He and
his family are longtime residents of Louisville.
Boden was a member of the Pendennis Club.

1955

Dr. RONNIE REGINALD Ray, a practicing ophthal-
mologist in Washington, D. C., died October 3,
1978. In 1954 Ray spent a year in Jordan where he
was director of the International Eye Bank.

 

 

 

 

 

Excerpt from the elder Thom’s letter to his father in 1865 in which he mentions the election of General

Lee as president of Washington College.

I am not near grateful enough. . . Iam get-
ting on pretty well in my classes, but this
Spring weather makes a fellow very lazy,
and I am not remarkable for industry . . .”
(It is doubtful that any of the 113 years of
students who followed have found the lures
of spring at Goshen any easier to resist.)
The elder Thom graduated from Wash-
ington College just before Lee’s death in
October 1870. He continued his studies in

 

 

e

Berlin, Paris and Heidelberg, and finally re-
turned to Virginia as a professor of English
and history at Hollins College until 1890.
Remaining close to his alma mater, Thom
undoubtedly stayed in touch with events at
the newly named Washington and Lee Uni-
versity; a small wooden memento, com-
memorating the arrival of Valentine’s famous
“Recumbant Statue” of General Lee in 1876,
is evidence of his involvement in that par-
ticular project. And in 1911, when Phi Beta
Kappa established a chapter at W&L, Dr.

 

 

A fragment from the case in which the famous
“Recumbent Statue” of Lee was,shipped to
Lexington was given to the University Library by
the elder Thom.

Thom was one of a few of “General Lee’s
boys’ who were invited to join as alumni
initiates. (His son followed him into Phi Beta
Kappa, also as an alumnus initiate, in 1927).

Dr. Thom Sr. died in 1930, after more
than 20 years with the U. S. Geological Sur-
vey—perhaps the origin of his son’s interest
in that field. Both men enjoyed life well into
their 80's, remaining active writers and
thinkers on a variety of subjects. Their com-
bined energy made possible important dis-
coveries in geology—but no less significant-
ly, they occupy an unusual place in the annals
of Washington and Lee. Almost incredible
to believe, only two men—father and son—
form one of the most direct bridges linking
our times with the crucial Lee period.

 

30

 

 

 

Gifts Galore
from the
WE&L
Supply Store :

 

15  Wé&L Baseball Hat $4.79
14. W2&L Visor $2.69
6 Adult Gym Shorts (polyester) $6.59

 

A-8 Pennants: 872 inch $0.50; 30 inch, $3.69;
14 inch, $1.39.

ee
caceae teed

   

B-5 Youth Gym Shorts $4.09
B-2 Baby Bib $2.69
A-10 Wé&L Baby Ball $1.09

 

B-13 Navy pile-lined rayon Coach's Jacket B-4 Adult T-shirt $5.19
(S ML XL) $23.49 B-4 V-neck Jersey $6.10
B-4 Chip Shirt (for football, lacrosse, soccer,
tennis) $9.79

 

C-3 W&L Mug, 12 oz. $6.59

C-2 Beer Stein, w/gold trim, 20 oz., $8.39
C-1

C-4

 

-10 General’s Mug, 12 0z. $4.29 B-4 Adult T-shirt $6.39
Coffee Mug, 7 oz. $2.99 B-3 Child’s T-shirt (2-16) $3.99
B-3 Child’s V-neck Jersey $5.79

 

D-1 Highball Glass, 12 oz. $1.99

D-3 Double Old Fashioned, 15 oz. $2.09
D-4 Single Old Fashioned, 7 oz. $1.99
D-6 Ashtray w/emblem 6” square $2.39

se
ww”

  

A-9 W&L Blankets
Twin size 905 wool w. rayon trim and

 

W&L Sweatshirt (navy) hooded $11.69

B-9

B-8 Sweatshirt, adult (blue on white) $7.49 B-1 WAL Tie $9.00 Ble oe oe | ' |

B-4 Windsor T-shirt (navy w/white and red B-4 = Adult Rainbow Shirt (navy or vanilla) onan il an a ap . ao
letters) $6.39 (S ML XL) $12.19 eee

A-6 — W&L Playing Cards $5.50

 

 

 

31

 

 

 

 

 

A. HOME OR OFFICE 5. W&L Mug, 10 02. ..............008. $ 5.39
1. Solid Walnut Penstand .......... $19.49 6. W&L Pitcher, 2 qt. we. $12.00
2. Solid Walnut Bookends ......... $37.99. 7. Ashtray... $ 2.99
3. Marble Paper Weight ............. $ 5.99 8. Football Bank ............0. ce. $ 5.19
4. Pencil Holders ........00.ccc ee $11.20 9. Heart-shaped Box ........0....00... $ 2.99
5. Letter Openers ........ $ 1.50 - $10.49 10. General’s Mug, 12 02. ........... $ 4.29
6. W&L Playing Cards ............... $ 5.50
7. Stationery ............... $ 3.19-$ 5.39 D. GLASSWARE
8. Pennants 872" @ $.50, 14” @ $1.39, 1. Highball, 12 oz. red & blue crest .$ 1.99
30” @$ 3.69 2. Highball, 12 oz. red & blue crest,
9. W&L Blankets . GOI FIM 0... eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees $ 2.49
Twin size 905 wool w. rayon trim 3. Old Fashioned (double) red & blue
ANG EMDIOM «...+..-.-rsssereesssses $43.99 Crest, 15 OZ. ......eeececceeeeeeeeeeees $ 2.09
Twin size 100% wool w. white wool 4. Old Fashioned (single) red & blue
edging and emblem ............ $66.49 Crest, 7 OZ. .......ccceceeeeseeeeeeeeeees $ 1.99
10. W&L Baby on naa $ 10° 5. Shot Glass, 11 oz. red & blue
B-11 Warm-up Pants $11.39 11. Solid Walnut Ashtray ............. $23. (0) (1) $ 1.09
B-12 Warm-up Jackets $13.59 6. Ashtray 6” square ...........0000. $ 2.39
B. CLOTHING 7. BUd VASE .......ceeceeceeeeseeeeeeees $ 2.49
1. W&LTie oe $ 9.00
2. Baby Bib ...... ee $269 E. PEWTER
3. Youth T-shirts (2-16) .$ 3.79-$ 5.79 1. Tankard with W&L crest ........ $11.00
4. Adult T-shirts (S ML XL)$ 5.29-$12.19 2. Tankard with crest & glass
S. Youth Gym Shorts (S ML) ....6 4.09 DOOM oo. .ceeccceceeeseeeeeseeteeeeeeees $27.99
6. Adult Gym Shorts, cotton .......$ 4.39 3. Tankard with lid & crest ......... $26.49
polyester ..............c.ceeeeeeeeeeeeees $ 6.59 4. Tankard with W&L seal &
7. Sweatshirts, child ................ $ 5.79 curved handle .......ccceeceeeeees $11.99
8. Sweatshirts, adult .................. $ 7.49 5. Ashtray with crest ......0.000000. $ 5.50
9. Sweatshirts, hooded .............. $11.69
10. W&L Nightshirts (S ML) ........ $ 5.49
11. Warm-up Pants (S ML XL) ...$11.39 F. oT Ghai
12. Warm-up Jacket (S ML XL) ..$13.59 Tankard with Wai |
| 13. Coach's Jacket (S M L XL) ...$23.49 anate nea
A-11 Solid Walnut W&L Ashtray $23.99 14. W&LVISOF cesssesesssessecesseeeeeveee $ 2.69 (Gold & Silver) sss $ 9.49
A-1 Solid Walnut Penstand $19.49 15. W&L Baseball Hat ............. $ 4.79 Ne cea! (gold & silver) .....8 6.09
A-5 W4&L Letter Opener $1.50-$10.49 2. Key Rings with W&L charm
A-3 Marble Paper Weight $5.99 (gold & Silver) oo... $ 6.79
C. CERAMICS 3. Lighters
1. W&L S&P Shakers (pr) .......... $ 3.59 Wa&L seal (ladies-sm., mens) .$ 3.95
2. Wé&L Mug, 20 oz. (Beer Stein) $ 8.39 WA&L crest (Zippo) .............. $ 6.95
3. WL Wied 12 Oz: ooh, $ 6.59 4. Blazer Buttons, 18 ct. gold filled,
4. Wé&L Mug (coffee) 7 oz. ......... $ 2.99 blue & white enamel ............... $19.99

 

Vo. may order from the listed items, many of which are pictured. A check or money
order including the item(s) price, a 4% sales tax, and a charge for postage and
handling (10%) must accompany your order before it can be processed. To speed
receipt of your purchase, please complete the order form correctly. Feel free to call
the W&L Supply Store (703-463-9111, Ext. 312) to discuss any details.

All prices subject to change without notice.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Item oe . Unit Total
Letter/No. Description size | Oty. Price Price
B-10 W&L Nightshirt S ML $5.49
F-2 W&L Keyrings $6.79
F-1 W&L Charms (tankard $9.49, seal $6.09)
F-4 Blazer Buttons $19.99
Send your order to: Sub Total
Washington and Lee University Supply Store 4% Tax
ee ae en Postage & Handling 10%
POSTAGE & HANDLING: Enclosed find check
Add 10% to Cost of Purchase or money order for:
E-1 Wilton Pewter Tankard w/crest $11.00 0 O
E-5 Wilton Pewter Ashtray w/crest $5.50 2 E Address
E-4 Wilton Pewter Tankard w/seal and & Ss
—o ;
curved handle $11.99 =O Zip
iw
2
Telephone No. & Area Code

 

 

 

 

32

Shenandoah

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

Shenandoah

30/2

bg ee

 

 

WY siters of this stature appear
in SHENANDOAH:
ROBERT PENN WARREN
ALLEN TATE

PETER TAYLOR
ELIZABETH BISHOP
Roy FULLER

ROBERT LOWELL
RICHARD HOWARD
REYNOLDS PRICE

W.S. MERWIN

JOYCE CAROL OATES

Two stories that appeared in
SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards
for distinguished brief fiction.

W on’t you subscribe to Wash-
ington and Lee _ University’s
award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and
criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

 

Shenandoah
The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
[_] One year @ $5.00
My check for $

enclosed.

 

L] Two years @ $8.00

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

State Zip

6¢

I go on admiring [Shenandoah], none in the

country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

I can think offhand of only two or three uni-
versity-financed reviews in which the impact
of a strong editorial personality has created a
vital magazine. The examples that come to
my mind are those of David Ray and the
strong social-radical consciousness he has
brought to the editing of New Letters for the
University of Missouri at Kansas City; of the
elegant and rather patrician standards James
Boatwright has given to Shenandoah at
Washington and Lee; and of Robin Skelton,
who has brought such a distinctively inter-
national flavor to the Malahat Review at the

University of Victoria in British Columbia.
—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America: A Modern
Documentary History (TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

You are the best “little” magazine in the

country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories. . . . Sixteen were first published in
the pages of little magazines, quarterly re-
views, irregularly issued periodicals reaching
a small, a very small, readership. (Shenan-
doah, for example, one of the best of these
magazines from which I have taken two
stories, prints approximately one thousand

copies of each quarterly issue.)
—wWilliam Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

Dr. Robert Coles, child psychiatrist and
author, is, by his own description, one of
those “Yankees who went south and fell in
love with the region.” He is a loyal subscriber
to several “good southern literary quarter-
lies”: The Sewanee Review... The Southern
Review .. . The Georgia Review; and Shen-

andoah.”
—‘“Where Opinion Makers Get Their Opinions,”
Esquire, June 5, 1979

> Pd

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww
Dr. William Yatt

Ce Washington Hall

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

 

 

 

 

