 

Ee

 

 

Ptirakcaii:

 

i ee

 

te

ith

 

ee

ARCH 1975

 

Te ie,

M

 

SRR

 

Se

iversity

d lee un

 

f washington an

)
vu
S

the alumni magaz

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 50, Number 2, March 1975

William C. Washburn, °40........0.0.0000 ee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68.0.0... Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter.......0..0.. ee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

Sally Mann oo... ete cere Photographers

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Miss Ruth Parmly 0.000.000 eee eee e neers ]
Bicentennial CampwsB..........0.00..0. ccc eee eeeeeees 3
W&L News Briefs. ....00...0..0 cece eee eeeeeeteenee 5
Jack Warner’s Do Right... eee 10
Winter ‘Sports Roundup............0....:e eee 12
Chapter Ne€WS..0....0...0. ccc cece eens eeeetneeneeneennes 14
Class Notes........0.00.0:ccccccceceeeteeseeseteeteneeneeteeeneeneenteae 17
In Memoriam ......0...00 ccc eee ee ences enereneeees 24
Deferred Giving Notes..........00..0.0 ee. Inside Back

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.
President

RicHARD D. HAyngEs, 758, Dallas, ‘Texas
Vice President

C. Royce Houcu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Tuomas B. Brancy, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, Jr., 43, Cumberland, Md.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
VERNON W. HOoLLEMAN, 58, Washington, D.C.
SAMUEL B. Ho is, 51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
Tueopore M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, ‘Texas
CourRTNEY R. MAuzy, JR., “61, Raleigh, N.C.
Cuar-es C. St1eEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ToucutTon, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

a
o-—_>

ON THE COVER: The old and the new at Wash-
ington and Lee are brought dramatically into focus
by the cover photograph. Old George atop Wash-
ington Hall is framed by the concrete supports of
Lewis Hall, the new Law School building, located
across Woods Creek valley from the historic campus.
The new building is scheduled for completion in
the spring of 1976. See the back cover for more
pictures of Lewis Hall. Photographs by W. Patrick
Hinley, ’75.

 

 

 

 

fp

yh
A

 

 

n some segmen ts
hed the teaching
an aimless

 

¢ Columbia
| Whee the

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 

some of | histor

which illustrate the e 1
- United § States: and its IE

these:

| once owned by)

taining to,

tennial Ad ainistration as it con
endorsing | ‘the WEL observan

@ The nationwide tour
erway of a number

 

_ @The 1976 Mock Den

  
 

  
 
 
 

    
 
 

 
   
 
 

 

 

 

 

Bicentennial Campus

@ Finely crafted reproductions of nine
ieces from the Reeves Collection by ar-
ment with two leading Europe
man ufacturers, the Sales, of
which will similarly result i in a rc
the University’s s educz

  
 

 
 

 

   
 

of on-campus" pro:
grams and earch activities, ranging
from a _ production next year of the
Broadway musical (1776 to extensive
studies of early, rectors and other figures
in the pre-Lee history of the institution:

@And completion in 1976 of the first

formal | portion | of W&L's ambitious “De-

  
 

gram oe the Decade of

 
    

versity treasurer and secret
Board of Trustees. The. committee’s mem-
bership includes Dr. I. Taylor Sanders

official W&L historian and assistant
of history; Dr. William. W.

  
 
    
   

Pusey IU, professor of German and for-

College (who is under-

Dr. Sidney M. B.
or of English (who is re-
aunistration of his an-

; ; we
an
pecoensi hea O -
nen snerenetonet ;

the few college campuses in Ameri
having received two such hi designations - _

ga a major study of. the Washington

   
   
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
  
 
  
  
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
   

Bicentennial projects ing
prehensive study of
American art);
head librarian; |
Meschutt, Dries Van
Charles N. Watson Jr.,
involved with a diffe
project.

Washington and Lee’s |
centennial program is closely
with the joint Lexingt Qn I
County Bicentennial observan
ed by Dr. Leon F. ‘Sensabaugh, 1, “pro: Y
of history and dean om itus at t W&L.,
_ The University’s. :
tion of the A )

 

the highest honor that can be ¢ onferrec eC
on a private site by the federal €
ment. (linterestingly, Virgi

 

 

Institute next door, founded in. 18: 9 ; i. /

one of the others with two Histor
marks.)

of the peripatetic Liberty Hall Academy
petitioned the Virginia legislature for a
formal charter with permission to award

college-level degrees. They received it in
(1782 — the first such charter granted to

any academic institution in Virginia by
the new state government.
In 1796, George Washington decided

the Valley with the awesome

        
 
  
 
     

Shortly after the Revolution, trustees

to endow the oo little school in

 

It was literally the
'y, which had been
bankruptcy at the
renamed the
demy in 1798
in 1813), and
| a productive
Lee’ s endow-
»art of the cost
student at the

 

1e 19th cen-
ed, but only
was rescued

 
   
 
 
  
 
  
 

ity ‘and pane and. in the five years.
before his death he transformed the
little-known classical acad
versity of national stature.

ate Lee’ s deatn in 1870, the college

 

emy into a uni-

      
 
    
 
 

“the i imn or

  
 
   

| fortune it is en-
in its future his-

WeL

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 

in addition
othe, now development dit
the leader of the anti-B
embly in the 1950s and
2 candidates” in unsucce
5 for the lieutenant 30
yrd Jr.’s U. S. Senate ‘seat in 191 6 -
In addition to the two_ ‘institutes, the pre-pro

 
  
  

 

 

nk

 

gton (Del.) News and | Tournal, ie
journalistic ethics in the

  
  
  
 

on is to provide

their work. They w
rces and other

  

  
 
   

dents have attended
l sion, but without
man” * (in house critic) of the W: hington B
dikian, who is also the author of The Effete Conspiracy an id
| ther Crimes °y the Press, gave a public
te?” and worked with i

     
 
 

 

   
 

     
   

   
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 

have brought other speakers to cz ipus this winter,

  
  

eetings of -

   

  

     

ting, the three Texas of the board served as co-

 
 

hosts. They were John M. mons of Dallas, Thomas 1D.
n of Houston, and as C. Frost Jr. of San

- Antonio, SS Oo

  
   
  
 
  

| 29

AS

porary” housing for World War UH veterans and their
families. oe —

ing the seven families
town in Wash-
ing area, David-

-

a
-
-

.

iny as 48 student families
The reduction in the de-

  

ed student housing, original pecte
1950, did not occur until 1960 whe ishington and Lee
1 gradually. |

by Washington and
at a nominal

 
 
 
  
 

 

  
 

the City, of
As W&L units have |
built on the: site, . indluding 0

   

 

  
 

 

 
   
  

 

    

 

 

- drafty, and drab

_ ‘their brides, where

| recently as one of only five

| iptions to which will be donated by

- America, Inc., to about 900  in-

| country — public libraries, hospitals
we -

 
   

 

 

Jr, of the
and Politi

 

 
  
   
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
    
    
   

last year — _

 

       

and Charles F. Phillips Jr dit
poration | progr: ( tively; ;
Bailey, a pre-law student, }

 

 

  
 
  

student and
of the students,

NEW BOOK BY COU
| Dr. Sidney
thor of Matthew Arnold a
ter by Ohio— Univ orsi
- Dr. Coulling’s Ph.D. «
how Arnold's prose
| ‘criticism.

    

  

 

 

OTHER pACUET
ntice-Hall

    
  
   
 
   
 

           

 

executive board since last su
— OPianist J Avery, who h

 
 
 

 

for his playing from the

 
   
 
   
 

   

was “Five Miniatures for Piano” by R Rok
of music at Washin

   
 
 

Qeinter No. 2 in

e

   
   

taloguing and “stor
king the gift that no
until his ¢

 

 

     
   
 
     

 

LAW,
1974

| the figure for future busine
a national men’s norm; and, ag
"pattern, Washin

about twice the national

ee

a important” Nationz |
sai¢ they had picked their colle . for that reason.
Each fall, ‘entering students. at cL and | at al ut 300
other four-year colleges and universit
tion are asked to indicate their
the moment. The survey
| Counc cil on Education in:

Oo

 

ous out the na-

    
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-
7
i

dents, rua: dates, a
| swung and swayed in
/ _ Hall, which was tra

 

nightclub in keeping with the
> — “In the Mood.” Stan Rubin

 

7 oe his Orchestra, veteran Fancy —
a . _ Dress performers, led the “Salute |
_ to the Swing Era.”

 

  
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  

a oa

is year os fe hn 10 7370

 

 

> re

   
 

Yevich is a busine: + administration
Honor Roll, student, i is an

   

~

7 a ‘

ol | ‘the e junior class on the Student Executive Co

litics and Spanish.

  
 
      

 

  

 

 

 

   

 

LECTURES, PERFORMANCES, EXHIBITIONS
U.S. Sen. Gary Hart (D.-Colo) spoke in February about the
Democratic party’s 1976 Presidential prospects, then met with
students in informal conversation, all under the sponsorship
of W&L’s 1976 Mock Democratic Convention. |
pr. Claude S. George Jr., associate dean of the Graduate
School of Business Administration at the University of North
Carolina (Chapel Hill), addressed the 1975 Phi Beta Kappa Tele thon conducted from Richmon d on the evenings of
convocation in March on the topic ‘““The Unexamined Life,”

, March 4, 5, and 6.
taking his title from Plato’s observation that the unexamin-
oo | _ Over the three evenings, a total of 78 alumni (17
ed life is not worth living. — et

- of them accompanied by their ladies) spent three hours
a Howard Bird J ieee of Mobi me _- | a night: calling classmates all over the country on behalf |
is a visiting allo i - : a : _ | of the 1974-75 Alumni Fund. They made 897 calls and |
as é ’

} | talked to_ 527° alumni. Of those alumni reached, 462 |
and other professionals. | 68%) made pledges | to the Alumni Fund. Of those |
iods. a ee e a pl edging, | 330 named specific amounts which totaled
: en Bind met. : $38,985. The largest single pledge was for $10,250. a
and engaged | in a can lumni Fund aes L. Gordon Miller, 4 45,

and energy proble m
J “The role” |
Communist Cl
Philip Shen, v
and, until ¢

TELETHON MEANS FUN AND MONEY >
_ “hat was really a lot of fun. I hadn’t talked with
-some of those guys since we graduated. I hope Tl be
asked to help again next year.” |
This comment by one of the callers seemed to sum
up the attitude of all who worked at the Alumni Fund

    
    
     
  
 
 
 
 
       
 
 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
   
 

tion to deli
ee

 
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
 
 

 
  
 
 

 
 
 
  

| from West Point, Va., alsi
| “The $38, 985 represents the minimum na 1
| sed because only those pledges for a pect

sponsored by t the § Sean nars | ae
O Also_ Ne We this

  

pledges | will be counted in the Alumni Fund until they
: ane actually 1 received in Lexington,

ALUMNI FUND STATUS
| As. of March 31, 1975,

This Year a : Last Year

 

 

 

| ae 000" | |

| professor of art history a at “Sweet Briar College lo has. con- a 047, = 76. he 1
ducted extensive research | into ‘Calder and interviewed | him | OOF i eS 8,509
several times in connection with her doctoral research. ep ” 25.2%, — 7 26. 8%

-OThe University Theatre — until: lately the Troubadours | i eee 7 1,035 ee 840

_ presented David Storey’s- compelling drama, The Changing. re ee 328 so 382

_ Room, about lower- and middle-class rugby players in York- fe oe —
shire and the brutality, psychological perhaps as much. as an 1,29] ee 144400
physical, they willingly accept on the field’ and in the “chang- ae 452 OO at |

_ Ing room” itself. The production was as naturalistic as poss | — so oo
sible, and one way that goal was attained was by thorough . 11670 a iL 193

— instruction ine the peculiarities | of the Yorkshire dialect by | | _ 8.02 fs 9%. 19
‘Deborah Ross, voice coach of the American Academy of the — | | siz 765

7 Dramatic Arts, of which University Theatre Director Lee |
: Kahn is the newly appointed executive vice president.

March 1975 -

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

were counted in arriving at this total. ‘None of the |

 

 
  
   
    

An equine Cinderella tale: Ole Dennis,
Ole Do Right, and Ole Jack Warner

This is the story of a horse named Do
Right, and if you saw it in a movie you
wouldn’t believe it for a minute. But it’s
true, every word.

Simply put, Do Right is the finest
jumper in the world. Period. And Den-
nis Murphy, a sharecropper’s son who
worked in a filling station until about
five years ago, is the jockey who train-
ed Do Right and rides him now to
(ahem) new heights. ‘Together, Do Right
and Dennis are the talk of the horsey
set.

Do Right is owned by W&L Trustee
Jack Warner, a 1941 graduate and the
colorful president of Gulf States Paper
Corp. of ‘Tuscaloosa, Ala. Dennis came
to work a few years back for the forestry
division of one of Gulf States’ subsidi-
aries. Well, one of the forestry division's
responsibilities is to manage the com-
pany stables. And Warner rides when-
ever he has the Opportunity, or can
create it, and Murphy has always been at-
tracted to horses, ever since childhood
when he hung around a livery stable,
currying horses in trade for the chance
occasionally to ride.

Inevitably, Dennis and Warner met at
the stables, and before too long Warner
let Dennis ride one of the sorrier horses,
just to work it out. In no time, it be-
came clear to Warner that he had in
his forestry man a diamond in the rough.

Warner took Dennis under his wing,
and the rest, as they say, is history.

One day Dennis met a horse named
Roguish Eye that Warner had bought
for a measly $4,000 — a nominal sum as
horses go because, as Warner recalls,
Roguish Eye “had a reputation for being
this regular renegade outlaw!” The horse
was so skittish that he’d been raised on
tranquilizers. But Dennis quickly  dis-
cerned nearly limitless potential in the
horse, and began working with him gen-
tly, ever so gently. And soon enough, he
had the horse doing so right that he
renamed him.

10

 

And Dennis and Do Right have been
doing just that, as the headline writers
like to put it, ever since. For
merely to enter a competition is to serve
notice on the rest of the horse world that
second place is the best to which other
stables can aspire.

them

It was that way at last winter’s Na-
tional Horse Show in Madison Square
Garden, for example, horsedom’s World
Series. In the Puissance, the premiere
event in that premiere competition,
against the toughest international chal-

Ole Dennis, “all turned out in the proper
fashion,’ on Tuscaloosa, with Jack W.
Warner, ’41, Tuscaloosa’s owner and
trainer for Dennis. Photo was made

last summer after first-place victory in
international competition in Hickstead,
England.

lengers, the unlikely combination from
Gulf States Paper cleared the wall at a
phenomenal seven feet, one inch—four
inches better than the next best team.
It's like that everywhere they go.
Murphy is a member of the U.S. Eques-
trian ‘Team now — building up to the

WeL

 

 

 

1976 Olympics — under Coach Bertalan
de Nemethy. With Do Right and an-
other standout in the Warner Stables,
Tuscaloosa, Murphy toured Europe last
summer as a member of the Prize of
Nations team. On Tuscaloosa, Murphy
won two international first-place prizes,
and on Do Right another; Murphy was
one of three American riders who took
the King George V Gold Cup; on one
or the other of “his” horses he placed
highly in seven other competitions. In
November, Murphy won the “leading-

March 1975

rider” trophy in Toronto’s Royal Winter
Fair — the first time, according to U.S.
Team Coach de Nemethy, a rookie has
taken that honor. Things have reached
the point that it’s really not possible any
longer to read about equestrian competi-
tion without reading that Dennis and
Do Right and Tuscaloosa have cleaned

up again.
‘‘Now,” in fact, ole Jack Warner told
Sports Illustrated after the National

Horse Show, “it’s gotten to where I’m
training for Dennis.”

 

Above left: Do Right carries Dennis over
the seven-foot one-inch wall in Madison
Square Garden to win the Puissance at

last winter’s National Horse Show.
(Murphy had already won second- and
third-place ribbons when he made this
Spectacular jump. Afterwards, he reported
with some wonderment, “The people were
just screaming—just going wild.” )

Above right: Ole Jack jumping with
Alabama, another mount that he is
training for Dennis. Warner says this is
the horse to watch because he’ll be
famous some day.

I]

A half-and-half basketball season;
>) swimmers are All American

If ever an athletic team experienced
a season divided into two distinct halves,
one good and one bad, it was the 1974-
75 W&L basketball squad. Unfortunately
for the Generals, the good part came
jirst.

Behind a nationally-ranked defense,
Coach Verne Canfield’s team was practic-
ally invincible through its first 14 games,
winning 12 of them. But the lack of an
offense caught up with them during the
last half, and they hit the victory column
just three more times.

Still, there were a lot of plusses for
the 1974-75 Generals. They posted their
ninth straight winning season with an
overall 15-12 mark. In those nine years,
W&L has won 149 games and lost 76, for
an average record of 17-8.

And W&L acquitted itself well in its
tough schedule. ‘The Generals beat Navy,
which is becoming a habit, and gave
highly favored Virginia a real scare be-
fore losing by just eight points at Char-
lottesville. Nationally —fourth-ranked
Randolph-Macon also just barely squeak-
ed by, 67-62, after W&L played perhaps
its finest game of the year and nearly
pulled off a major upset. (Macon went
on to post a 27-3 record, two of the losses
to national champion Old Dominion).

Besides Vir-
ginia and Navy, W&L played some of
the best Division II teams in the country,

Division I opponents

including national champion Old Domi-
nion, Randolph-Macon, Roanoke, Balti-
more University and Madison). Although
~W&L did not bump off any of these pow-
ers, the fact they were willing to take
them on helped W&L achieve a_ post-
invitation to the NCAA cham-
pionship tournament for Division III.

season

“We went on the strength of sche-
dule,” commented NCAA ‘Tournament
Selection Committee member Jim Reedy.
“Beating Navy and playing well against
those other teams impressed the commit-
tee.”

W&L not only received the bid to

12

 

W&L’s John Podgajny (34) and Navy’s Bob Burns (14) batile for rebound in
WeL’s 54-47 victory over the Midshipmen.

play for the national title—the Generals’
first venture ever into post-season cham-
pionship play—they also were selected to
host the South Atlantic Regional Tour-
nament. Traveling to Doremus Gym for
the tourney were two New Jersey schools,
Glassboro State and William Paterson,
and North Carolina Methodist, the No.
1 seeded team with a 20-4 record.

Glassboro State defeated W&L in the
first round, won the regional title the
next night, and then won two more
games to advance to the national cham-
pionship game, where they lost by a
close margin to LeMoyne-Owen.

‘The regional tournament marked the
close of the college careers of three W&L
seniors: co-captains Greg Croghan and
Guy Kerr, and Bowman Williams. Crog-
han was the team’s leading scorer, with
an average of 12.0 points a game, and

one of the top rebounders. Williams and
Kerr were regulars who ranked fourth
and fifth in scoring with 7.5 and 7.3 aver-
ages, respectively. Kerr led the team in
steals with 79.

Canfield expressed pleasure
with the strong play at the end of the
season of 6-8 center Norm Kristoff, who
averaged 11.0 points and 8.7 rebounds a
game. A junior, Kristoff will return next
year, along with third-leading scorer John
Podgajny (10.9 average) and regulars Don
Berlin, Jeff Baum, Kim Sims, Gary Fitz-
gerald and Paul Maloney.

Injuries played a key role in limiting
the Generals’ efforts. ‘““We played most of
the season missing two starters,’ noted
Canfield. ‘The 6-5 Gary Fitzgerald broke
his arm in the second game of the sea-
son and backcourt quarterback Paul Ma-
loney totaled his knee in an early game.

WeL

Coach

 

 

WeL’s superswimmers: All Americans Trip Wornom, Tad Van Leer, Bill Tiers,

John Hudson, and Will Brotherton.

5 ALL-AMERICAN SWIMMERS

Washington and _ Lee’s swimming
team had a very successful season this
winter and did very well in post-season
championship participation.

Coach Bill Stearns’ swimmers posted
a 9-3 record in dual meet competition
(including victories over William and
Mary and VMI) and had five team mem-
bers achieve All-American status at the
national meet, the most ever in one sea-
son. They are John Hudson, Tad Van
Leer, team captain Will Brotherton,
Bill Tiers, and Trip Wornom.

The swimming Generals were led all
season by freshman sensation John Hud-
‘on, who broke records nearly every time
he jumped into the pool. At one point,
Hudson, a distance freestyler, was rank-
ed No. | in the country in two individual
€vents and second in still another.

March 1975

By the end of the regular season,
Hudson had broken four state records and
smashed five school marks. He capped off
the performance by setting three records
in the Virginia State Meet held in the
new W&L pool. He was a unanimous
choice as the meet’s Outstanding Swim-
mer.

Then, at the national meet, Hudson
made All-American five times. He bet-
tered the national record in two events,
but ironically finished second in both:
the 500-yard and 1,650-yard freestyles. In
the 200-yard freestyle, he finished fifth.
All three of Hudson’s times were new
state records: 1:45.037 in the 200, 4:42.-
063 in the 500, and 16:16.063 in the
1,650.

Besides making All-American in those
three events, Hudson also swam a leg on
W&L’s two All-American relay teams,

the 800- and 400-yard relays.

‘The 800 (Hudson, Van Leer, Brother-
ton and ‘Tiers) set a new state and school
record of 7:15.990, while the 400 (Hud-
son, Van Leer, Brotherton and Wornom)
posted a new school record of 3:16.156.

Almost overshadowed by
feats were those of sophomore Tad Van
Leer, All-American three
times. Besides swimming on the two AIll-
American relay teams, Van Leer set a
new school record in the 100-yard free-
style with a clocking of :48.485.

Hudson's

who made

With such outstanding performances,
W&L finished 10th among 74 schools rep-
resented at the NCAA national meet.
For W&L and head swimming coach Bill
Stearns the five All-Americans represent-
ed the most ever in any given year. Prey-
iously, Billy Ball won the honor in 1969
and Bill Brumback in 1971.

WRESTLERS ARE WINNERS

The W&L wrestling team posted a
winning 9-8 season and sent four wrest-
lers to the NCAA national meet. Team
captain Doug Ford, a 177-pounder, cap-
ped off an outstanding college career by
just narrowly missing All-American status
at the national meet. (To qualify, a
wrestler has to place among the top six
in his weight class at the national meet).

Ford pinned his first Opponents and
lost his second match, but that Opponent
went on to the semifinals, giving Ford
another chance in the “wrestle-backs.”
Here, he defeated the third seeded entry
in the tournament and won a third match
before losing—in overtime—in a match
that would have put him in the select
top six had he won.

Also participating in the national
meet were 118-pound Howard Knipp,
150-pound Jimmy Crytzer and heavy-
weight Steve Schweizerhof.

W&L finished a very close second (to
Madison) in the state small college meet,
and had three state champions in Ford,
Crytzer and Knipp.

13

Chapter News

CHARLESTON, W.VA. President and
Mrs. Huntley were guests of honor at a
well attended meeting on Jan. 16 at the
Edgewood Country Club. Alumni Secre-
tary Bill Washburn accompanied the
Huntleys. A cocktail hour preceded a
dinner at which President Huntley re-
ported on Washington and Lee today.
His talk prompted a lively question-and- NNO
answer period. Special tributes were paid EAE
to former West Virginia Gov. Homer A. : oc
Holt, ’18A, ’23L, a trustee emeritus of Spf tfefend tot a | \
the University, whose death had occurred “ “ a.
that morning. Arrangements for the J» conversation at Charleston are Ed Seitz, ’36, Louie Paterno, ’65,
meeting were made by Louie Paterno, Mrs. Holmes Morrison, Holmes Morrison, ’63, and Tom McJunkin, ’70.
65, chapter president, and Fred Belden,
60, treasurer.

 

LOUISVILLE. Dr. Charles F. Phillips
Jr., professor of economics at W&L, was
the special guest at a meeting on Jan. 17
at the Louisville Country Club. Dr.
Phillips spoke on government regulation
of public utilities and the effects of this
regulation on the individual consumer
and the nation’s future. Alumni Secretary
Bill Washburn accompanied the speaker.
A dinner was preceded by a cocktail
hour. The meeting was arranged by there a
Henry H. Knight IJ, ’63, chapter presi- = al -

dent, and Ray R. Lovelace, ’61, treasurer. At Louisville Prof. Charles Phillips (center ) talks with Charles B. Castner Jr., 72,
Knight reported on chapter activities and Rayman R. Lovelace, ’61, Henry H. Knight II, ’63, and John C, (Jay) Norman Jr., ’64.

outlined plans for the year ahead.

 
 

   

  

=

 

a ea :

DALLAS. A _ group of University of-
ficials and alumni leaders were honored
at a cocktail party and dinner in the
Houston Room of the Sheraton-Dallas
Hotel on Jan. 28. The guests from Lex-
ington, accompanied by their wives, were
President Huntley, Dean of Students
Lewis G. John, and Alumni Secretary
Bill Washburn. Also present was Alumni
Association President Everett Tucker of
Little Rock, and W&L Student Body
President Ben Bailey. Parents of current
students from the Dallas area were also

 

Dallas meeting brings together Alumni Association President Everett Tucker, ’34,
guests. Richard D. Haynes, 58, a member — payvid D. Carothers, ’61, Mrs. Charles M. Patrick Jr., 55, Mrs. Robin Hartmann,
of the Alumni Board of Directors, in- and Robin P. Hartmann, ’71.

14 Welk

 

 

troduced President Huntley, who report-
ed on the current status of the Univer-
sity. Dean John and Ben Bailey made
brief reports on student life. Dallas
alumni were pleased to learn that Dallas
students hold a number of campus lead-
ership positions. Tucker praised the Dal-
las chapter for its strong participation in
alumni affairs and told of association
plans for the next year. David D. Caro-
thers, ’6l, chapter president, welcomed
the guests. He«was in charge of the ar-
rangements.

FORT WORTH. A Fort Worth chap-
‘er was officially organized at a luncheon
on Jan. 28 at the Century II Club in the
Fort Worth National Bank Building.
Present from the University were Presi-
dent Huntley, Dean of Students Lewis
G. John, and Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn. Association Presi-
dent Everett Tucker was also a guest; he
congratulated the new chapter and wel-
comed it into the national association.
President Huntley joined Tucker in

March 1975

Alumni

praising the new officers and directors of
the chapter, saying its formation was a
significant event in the life of the alum-
ni association and the University. Rice
Tilley, 58, who made arrangements for
the meeting, was elected chapter presi-
dent. He reported briefly of the chap-
ter’s responsibilities and its plans for the
coming year.

TIDEWATER. Tidewater alumni were
pleased to join the Chrysler Museum in
Norfolk as hosts at a reception on Jan.
29 before the opening at the museum of
the traveling exhibit of the University’s
Washington-Custis-Lee Family Portraits,
sponsored by the International Exhibi-
tions Foundation. Representing the Uni-
versity was Prof. Severn Duvall, head of
the English department. Arrangements
for the reception were made by Peter A.
Agelasto III, 62, chapter president.

HOUSTON. A large group of alumni
and parents of current students from the
Houston area turned out on Jan. 29 to

 

Left: At Fort Worth meeting are J. Harvey Allen Jr., ’61,
Cliff Overcash, ’74, and William A. Towler III, ’58.
Above: Enjoying the Houston meeting are James A. Gwinn
Jr., °62, Mrs. James Gwinn, Danny Leonary, ’70, Dan H.
Flournoy, ’64, and Donald B. McFall, ’64.

welcome President and Mrs. Huntley and
other visitors from the University, in-
cluding Dean of Students and Mrs. Lewis
G. John, Student Body President Ben
Bailey, Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Bill
Washburn, and also Alumni Association
President Everett Tucker of Little Rock.
All of the guests made brief reports to
the group. W. B. Ogilvie, ’64, chapter
president, was regrettably ill and could
not attend. Don McFall, 64, was master
of ceremonies. He paid special tribute to
University Trustee Tom Anderson, ’34,
and Mrs. Anderson for their help in
making all of the arrangements.

TRISTATE. Alumni of the Hunting-
ton and Charleston, W. Va., areas par-
ticipated in the opening of the travel-
ing exhibition of the University’s Collec-
tion of Washington-Custis-Lee Family
Portraits at the Huntington Galleries on
Feb. 15. The portrait tour is being spon-
sored by the International Exhibitions
Foundation in cooperation with the Uni-
versity as part of its Bicentennial obser-

15

Chapter News

 

vance. A reception was held at the gal-
leries, where W&L alumni met with
sponsors and friends of the galleries
along with other Huntington citizens.
After the reception, W&L alumni attend-
ed a dinner at the Holiday Inn. Guests
of honor included President and Mrs.
Huntley, University Treasurer and Mrs.
James W. Whitehead, Dr. and Mrs. W.
W. Pusey, and their daughter, Mary
Faith, who is a member of the Marshall
University library staff. Dr. Pusey is pro-
fessor of German and a former dean of
the College. President Huntley traced
the University’s history in relation to the
period covered by the portraits in the
exhibition, and ‘Treasurer Whitehead
reported on the background of each por-
trait and the lineage of the families rep-
resented. R. Kemp Morton, ’59A, ’64L,
made arrangements for the dinner and
coordinated the affair with the Hunt-
ington Galleries. Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn thanked the alumni on be-
half of the University for sponsorship of
the portrait exhibition.

PIEDMONT. President and Mrs. Hunt-
ley were guests of honor during a pleas-
ant evening in the Old Salem ‘Tavern in
Winston-Salem on Feb. 20. It was a kind
of homecoming for President Huntley, a
native of Winston-Salem. The Tavern in
historic Old Salem was a unique setting
for cocktails and dinner, complete with
waitresses wearing 18th century costumes.
Lampbearers, also dressed in historic cos-
tumes, led the alumni in a procession to
the Old Salem auditorium, where Presi-
dent Huntley spoke on the current status
of the University. Among the guests were
University Trustee J. Alvin Philpott, 45,
of Lexington, N. C., and Mrs. Philpott,
and C. Royce Hough, ’59, a member of
the Alumni Board of Directors, and Mrs.
Hough. Also representing the University
was Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn.
Fred L. Heina, ’58, chapter president,
made arrangements for the meeting.

16

 

 

 

At the Huntington Galleries for the opening of the University’s traveling exhibit
of 18th century portraits are University President Huntley, Mrs. Richard Van Zandt,
chairman of the Huntington Galleries, and Mrs. Huntley.

University Trustee J. Alvin Philpott, ’45, Mrs. Philpott and President and
Mrs. Huntley have their pictures made with a group of enthusiastic alumni
while going from the Old Salem Tavern to the auditorium in Winston-Salem.
The costumed lampbearers assisted.

     
    

WeL

 

Class notes

 

  
 
 
 
 
 

 

 

 

Po THE
Spe WASHINGTON AND LEE

 

= tin Colors

  
 
    
 

   
   
   

“The ¢ chair j is “made of birch and
~ black with gold trim and arms finist
welcome gift for Christmas, birthdays, an
ALL profit from sales of the chair "goes to t
memory of John Graham, ‘14, |

Price: ‘$66. 00 0 £0.
"Lexington, — :

Mail your order to a
ow \SHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, I ING.
— _ Paxtagion, Virginia 2 24450

 

- Immediate shipment oie | stock. a

 

bank's board in 19483. (See also class of » 1988:)

 

 

 

 

913
ADRIAN WILLIAMSON, after graduation from
Harvard Law School in 1915, practiced law
until his retirement in ati He lives in
Monticello, Ark. |

191 8

Herpert L. MACGREGOR of Derry, N.H. has

been elected to serve a third term in the

State Fegislature,

  
 
  

 

1993

SAUNDERS Gurrrant, a retired insurance man

of Roanoke, is proud of his outstanding at-
—tendance record at Sunday School. Guerrant

has been going to Sunday School a long
time—2 000 times to be exact—without miss-
ing a session. He ‘started attending First

Presbyterian Church of Roanoke Sunday — .

School nearly 38 years ago. Once on a trip
to Europe he found a Salvation Army Chapel
where he sat among an audience of children

to fulfill his goal of not missing a Sunday.

Recently, when in the Roanoke Memorial
Hosptial, his class came to the hospital to
have its meeting so that he would not
break his record. | |

19298,

- WILLIAM C. NorMAN S8r., who. has served as
_ president of the First National Bank of
Crossett, Ark. since 1954, has recently been |

named chairman of the board. Norman re-
tired in 1969 as a vice president of Georgia-

 

~ Pacific Corp. He began his business career
with the bank in 1928 and has been active in

the | affairs of the First National Bank of
ett since he became a member of the

 

1929
WILLIAM F, CHANDLER retired in March’
1974 as president of Porter Coating Divi-
sion, Porter Paint Co. Currently he serves
as a consultant to Porter. Having passed
the Kentucky State Insurance and Securities
Exams as well as_ the National Associa-—

tion of Security Dealers requirements, | a |

 

ig firms. ‘in the world. In October
1974 he was appointed executive general

adjustor.

1940

National

 

BURNER JR. is currently director.

 

 
  

OO
a

—

nominated for election to the Al
ation to be held at 10

   

O}

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 
       
 
   
 
     
  
    
   

 

 

 

  
     
 
      

 

sett, 5) . — Y. D. Heard, 53

d law for 25 years and for a WittiAM C, HAMILTON (see class note 1943).
in ‘lol was, acting Con Se | oO

 

S with the U. S. Public Health
i P. MINGIOLT is now with

   

 
    
 
    

in ‘the » anes banking firm of

  

ton, W. Va, w was, is named :
West | Virginia State Bar ¢

 

manufacturing of gasoline pumps and other
service station equipment. Just prior to join-
ing Texasgulf, Heard was with Texfi In-
dustries located in New Bern, N.C. Heard
completed a graduate course in manage-
ment development at Northeastern Univer-
sity in 1971. He is married to the former
Patricia Wright of Danville, and the couple
has two children.

Dr. JOHN Davin MaAcurre, president of State
University of New York College at Old
Westbury, was the Founder’s Day speaker at
Agnes Scott College in Decatur, Ga. Before
assuming his present post, he was a professor
and chaplain at Wesleyan University in
Connecticut. He is the author of books and
articles and was a participant in the 1966
White House Conference on Civil Rights.

ROBERT S. GOLDSMITH JR., president of Peo-
ples Federal Savings and Loan Association
in Roanoke, has been promoted to presi-
dent of the Southeastern Conference of the
United States League of Savings Associa-
tions. Goldsmith had been first vice presi-
dent.

1954

RAYMOND F. BEE has been promoted to mold
foreman at No. 4 Electric Furnace Depart-
ment for United States Steel Corp. at the
corporation’s South Works in Chicago.

NICHOLAS G. MANDAK has been appointed to
his second term as Municipal Court Judge of
Clifton, N. J.

W. ALLEN HARRISON has been appointed
treasurer of Exxon U.S.A. Harrison joined
Esso Export, Inc. an affiliate of Exxon
Corp. in 1959 in New York City. Two years
later he transferred to the corporation in
New York as a financial analyst. Before join-
ing Exxon U.S.A. in Houston in 1973, he
served with petroleum and chemical affili-
ates of Exxon in Coral Gables, Fla.; Bogota,
Columbia; Lima, Peru; Brussels, Belgium:
and New York City.

Dr. ‘THOMAS J. KENNY has recently been
promoted to associate professor of pediatrics
at the ;University of Maryland School of
Medicine. He is also assistant professor of
psychiatry and director of pediatric psycho-
logy.

WALTER E. SMITH is in private practice of
pastoral therapy and counseling in Atlanta,
Ga. He has also been recently appointed to

20

W. C. Norman Jr., ’56

the Commission on Ministry in the Episcopal
Diocese of Atlanta. Smith is a lecturer at
the Southeastern School of Alcohol Studies
at the University of Georgia’s Continuing
Education Center and is a visiting lecturer,
this semester, at the Atlanta College of Art.

RICHARD P. Ross is vice president market-
ing for First Federal Savings of Wisconsin

in Milwaukee.
1955

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. HuGHEs, a
daughter, Joy, on Dec. 18, 1974. Hughes is
director of sports information and curator
of Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee.

LAURENCE LEVITAN, presently a member of
the Maryland House of Delegates and chair-
man of the joint committee on managem nt
of public funds, has been elected to the
State Senate. He is a_ practicing attorney
in Potomac.

R. PEGRAM HARRISON, an Atlanta, Ga. at-
torney, has been named as director of ad-
ministration and planning at Hartsfield In-
ternational Airport. The announcement was
by Mayor Maynard Jackson. Harrison has
practiced. law in Chattanooga, Tenn., New
York City, and since 1967 in Atlanta. His
first task will be to complete the master
plan at Hartsfield.

RAy B. DINKEL was promoted in July 1974,
to manager of Southern New England Manu-
facturing Region for Ethan Allen, Inc. He
is responsible for the operation of five furni-
ture factories. He expects to locate his fam-
ily in Amherst, N. H.

JAY W. JACKSON (see class note 1953).

1956

DONALD F. STINE has been appointed _per-
sonnel manager for PPG Industries, Inc. of
Pittsburgh, Pa. Stine joined PPG at the
glass division’s Cumberland, Md., plant. in
1967. In 1972 he was named supervisor for
labor relations at the Creighton, Pa., glass
fabricating facility, and he became a di-
rector of employee relations at the glass
division's Ford City, Pa., plant in 1973.

Don E. FRYBURGER has been named market-
ing manager, automotive lubricants business
Unit, for Emery Industries, Inc. of Cincin-
nati. Fryburger will be responsible for the
development and execution of plans for
marketing and distribution of synthetic
lubricants for automotive engines. He has

 

 

D. E. Fryburger, ’56

been with Emery since 1968. Prior to join-
ing Emery he was brand manager for Procter
& Gamble. Emery is a leading manufacturer
of specialty chemicals that are important
ingredients in a variety of consumer and
industrial products.

DR. JACK A. MORGENSTERN is clinical associ-
ate professor of psychiatry at Ohio State
University and directs public mental
health, retardation and drug treatment
programs.

WILLIAM C. NORMAN Jr. of Crossett, Ark.
has been named president and chief execu-
tive officer of the First National Bank of
Crossett. As the bank’s fifth president, Nor-
man becomes the third generation of his
family to hold an executive position with
the bank. He received his M.B.A. from
Wharton School of Finance and Commerce
of the University of Pennsylvania. His 17
years in the banking industry include serv-
ice with the First National Bank of Mem-
phis, First National Bank in Dallas, and
National Bank of Commerce of Pine Bluff.
Norman has served as president of the
Crossett Area United Way, as a director of
the Chamber of Commerce, and as a vestry-
man of St. Mark’s Episcopal Church. He
presently serves as chairman of the trust
services committee of the Arkansas Bankers
Association and as a director of the Arkansas
Chamber of Commerce. He and his wife, the
former Clair E. McClain of Pine Bluff, have
two children. (See also class of 1928).

WAYNE W. FOWLER is in the real estate
business in Murray Hill, N. J., specializing
in residential property.

JOHN K. Oasr is 1975 chairman of the Ports-
mouth, Va. Area United Fund Campaign.
He assumed command of the Coast Guard
Reserve Group, Norfolk, in January 1975.

ARTHUR W. MCCAIN Jr. is manager of trust
accounting operations for General Electric
in Stamford, Conn. The McCains and their
three children live in. Fairfield.

Dk. HEADLEY S. WHITE JR. has discontinued
private practice and is now associate direc-
tor of family practice residency training
program in Allentown, Pa.

Dr. A. Bert PRuitr is in private practice
of obstetrics and gyneocology in Charleston,
S.C., and is also an associate clinical pro-
fessor at the Medical University of South

WeL

    

 

mni met by chance at
/ Hatteras, and they reported

   
 

Roundtable for tthe t Univ
lical units. He and

ALLEN PENICK Jn, a native of
ton, Va., is a

 

 

 
    

aduate study at

r001 1 of "Education, Univer it

 

DANIEL F, Boyes has been promoted to
president and director of Republic National
Bank in Houston, Tex. Boyles, formerly a
senior vice president at Republic, joined
the bank in 1968. Before that he was with
Robert C. Wilson Co. Boyles is also vice
president of Southwest Mortgage & Realty
Advisory Co. and serves on the board of
directors of National Standard Bank and
Colonial National Bank, both of which are
currently being organized.

CLARENCE RENSHAW II was recently promot-
ed to producer of the 10 o'clock news with
the Houston, Tex. NBC-TV affiliate. He
and his wife, Muffie, live in Dewalt with
their two sons.

Dr. J. BRANTLEY SypNoR has joined a group
of ear, nose and throat physicians in Roa-
noke, Va. He and his wife, Jane, have two
children.

ROBERT D. HART Jr., after practicing law in
Pensacola, Fla., obtained a master’s of law
degree in taxation from New York Univer-
sity. He is currently a partner in the Pensa-
cola law firm of Harrell, Wiltshire, Boze-
man, Clark and Stone. He is married to the
former Anne Douglas and the couple has
one son.

DANIEL T. BALFourR, a Richmond, Va. at-
torney, has received the Richmond Jaycee’s
“Outstanding Young Man’ Award for 1974.
Balfour, a past president of the Jaycees,
was cited for his civic contributions, includ-
ing his work as president of the Richmond
Community Action Program.

DR. ROBERT M. AvBURN is in practice of ob-
Sstetrics and gynecology in Ventura, Calif.
He is a diplomate of the American Board
of Obstetrics and Gynecologists.

1964

TAIN ‘TOMPKINS, returning from a tour of
duty in Vietnam, is now assigned as staff
assistant to the assistant secretary of state
for Near East-South Asian Affairs in the
Department of State.

Brice R. GAMBER has been elected a vice
president of Chubb and Son, Inc., a_na-
tional property and casualty insurance com-
pany. He has been with Chubb since 1964
and lives in Fanwood, N. J. with his wife
and their three sons.

22

 

aN

D. F. Boyle, ’63

Don R. WALLIs JR. is president and editor
of Vevay Newspapers, Inc. of Vevay, Ind.
At the Hoosier State Press Association 1974
awards presentations, Wallis and his Vevay
newspapers won the award for the top
weekly of the state. They also won three
first place awards for News Story Under
Deadline, Human Interest Reporting, and
Column Writing.:He and his wife, Betsy,
have two daughters.

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. TIMOTHY A. VANDER-
VER JR. a son, Benjamin Stone, on July 22,
1974. The young man joins two older
brothers.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Grec Euston a son,
William Douglas, on Oct. 6, 1974. The young
man joins two older brothers. Euston is
merchandise manager for Sears Roebuck in
the Beaumont, Tex. area. He oversees the
merchandising for the hardline departments
of three stores.

CHRISTIAN H. CLARKE attended the World
Sales Conference of the Sheraton Hotel
Corp. in Paris, France. He was one of 11
who qualified for a post-convention trip to
Brussels, Copenhagen, Frankfurt, Munich,
Lisbon, and Madeira.

Davin M. Ettis has opened law practice in
Dallas with offices in the Quadrangle.

HULLIHEN W. Moore has become a partner
of the law firm of Christian, Barton, Epps,
Brent & Chappell of Richmond.

PAUL S. MurpHy has joined Freeport Min-
erals Co. as assistant to vice president, cor-
porate development. Prior to joining Free-
port, Murphy was director of business an-
alysis with City Investing Co. and was pre-
viously a management consultant with the
firm of Cresap, McCormick & Paget. His
offices will be in New York City.

JOHN F. MARSHALL JR. has been involved
with European business principally in France
and Italy. His firm insures off shore oil
drilling rigs, related vessels, and develop-
ment programs.

JAMES M. SLAY JR., a practicing attorney in
Annapolis, Md., is also assistant to the Sec-
retary of State of Maryland.

Dr. ADAM J. FIELDER is completing his resi-
dency in obstetrics and gynecology at Johns

P. S. Murphy, ’65

 

 

C. F. Clement, ’66

Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He and his
wife, Sally, have a son and a daughter.

T. PATTON ADAMs, an attorney in Columbia,
S. C., has been appointed a member of the
city's zoning board of adjustment. He and
his wife have two sons,

JOHN D. WALLACE is working for the U. S.
Postal Service as director of employee and
labor relations in Springfield, Mass.

S. REED PAYNTER is assistant product man-
ager for duPont Co. in Wilmington and
specifically with Nomex Aramid, one of du-
Pont’s new high temperature resistant tex-
tile fiber products. He and his wife, Joan,
have two sons.

STEPHEN T. HIBBARD is an investment coun-
selor with Loomis, Sayles and Co. and he
and his wife, Ginnie, and two sons live in
Weston, Mass. Steve was recently elected
president of the Gibson House Museum.

C. EpMONDs ALLEN is president of Gloucester
International Limited, a private real estate
and finance company, specializing in the
financing of shopping centers, office build-
ings and equipment.

DANIEL ‘T, BALFOuR (see class note 1963).

1966
MARRIED: RoserT JOSEPH BAILEY to Carol
Anne Peterson of Colonial Heights, Va. on
Dec. 21, 1974. The newlyweds both teach at
Colonial Heights High School.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. VAL S. MCWHoRTER
a daughter, Elizabeth Lindsey, on July 15,
1974, The family lives in Springfield, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOE MILLER a son,
Thibant Goodin, on Nov. 14, 1974. Joe is
a manufacturer’s representative
nine southeastern states.

covering

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. RICHARD Levy a
son, Adam Jason, in July 1974. The family
lives in Louisville, Ky.

SAMUEL H. FRAZIER, after passing the Ala-
bama bar exam and being admitted to the
bar in November 1974, is now practicing law
in Birmingham.

CHARLES F, CLEMENT has joined Edward K.
Love Mortgage Co. of St. Louis, Mo. as an
assistant vice president for mortgage bank-
ing and construction financing. Clement was

Wel

 

re

   
 
  

   

 
 
      
   
 
 
 
 

       

- urban affairs: from | ersity. ‘His
7 Anna, is also: pursuing: a master’s in -
“ORR Jr. went. with the | Pea a
1 Project, -

 

9 at Filene’s in
R. Tas as |

   

In Memoriam

 

PETER J. FUREY is serving as a staff mem-
ber on the Ocean County (N.J.) Planning
Board. Currently he is project planner for
a countryside bus transit system.

NICHOLAS P. GRANT, holding the rank of lieu-
tenant in the Army, is an intelligence officer
at brigade headquarters in Olympia, Wash.
He has participated in Operation Falcon
Thrust in Coronado, Calif. and in Opera-
tion Boldfire in Yakima, Wash. He has at-
tended the Northern Warfare Training
School in Alaska.

Eviis L. “ELLIE”? GUTSHALL has been elected
banking officer of First Virginia Bank in Falls
Church. Gutshall, who is working in the
commercial loan analysis department, join-
ed the bank in November 1973.

JAMES E. PATTERSON is assistant district at-
torney in Ellsworth, Me.

1974

KENNETH S,. DANIELS is presently with Whit-
ney and Davis Co. in Plainville, Mass., a
subsidiary of Certified Corp. He is doing
advertising and marketing work for them.

NORBERT S. GARBISCH III, in business with
his father in Pittsburgh, Pa., is engaged in
farm business under the name of Vic-Nor
Farms, Inc. They are also in the liquor and
beverage dispensing business.

After a six-weeks tour of the U. S. with
Dave Johnston °74, W. BRADNEY GRIFFIN has
passed the Vermont bar exam and is now
practicing law with the firm of Corsones &
Griffin in Rutland.

KIRK KIRKPATRICK is producer and director
of WVJS-TV in Owensboro, Ky. He is also
music director of WVJS Radio.

ROBERT M. RAINEY is a graduate student
at Johns Hopkins in marine and evolution-
ary ecology.

Douctas B. HuTTON is working as coordina-
tor of special events and editor of the alum-
ni magazine at Madison College.

 

In Memoriam

1917

BEN RIVEs, a prominent farmer in Lexa,
Ark., died Feb. 10, 1975. At one time he was

24

 

in charge of the Lake View project and
was also a Farmer’s Home Administration
supervisor in New Mexico before he retired.

1919

WILLIAM JENNINGS Dopp, a prominent farmer
in Delta, Colo., died Nov. 26, 1974. Mr.
Dodd was active in farm organizations in
Colorado and neighboring states.

1926

ERNEST LEE Cox Jr., formerly with the divi-
sion of liquidation for the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corp. of Washington, D. C., died
Nov. 27, 1974. Cox had at one time been
with the Newton Insurance -Agency, Inc. in
Durham, N.C. and had been a liquidation
agent for the North Carolina State Bank-

ing Department.
1928

MEADE HUNTER MANN, a retired real estate
and insurance broker of Petersburg, Va., died
Jan. 5, 1975. A native of Petersburg, Mann
was an elder of the Second Presbyterian

Church.
1931]

PHILLIP L. ‘THOMAS, a graduate of the School
of Pharmacy at the University of North
Carolina and owner of Thomas Drugs, an
apothecary in Shallotte, N. C., died Jan. 23,
1975. Thomas first worked for Upjohn Co.
in Allentown, Pa. He moved to Roxboro,
N.C. in 1934 and was in business there for
25 years. While in Roxboro he was chair-
man of the board of the county commis-
sioners and was mayor protem for eight
years for the city. Thomas moved to Shal-
lotte in 1958 and in 1964 opened the Thomas
Drug Co.

Dr. NOEL CLARK MELLEN, a physician in
Pensacola, Fla., died Sept. 21, 1974.

1935
W. Witson KING of Rock Falls, Ill., promi-
nent citizen, farmer, and owner of Kinglore
Farms, Inc., died Nov. 16, 1974. At the time
of his death King was also vice president
of the United States Coalition for Rural
America, Washington, D. C., succeeding the
late Gov. Winthrop Rockefeller. He was ap-
pointed to that coalition by the late Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy. He was active in the
Democratic party and a member of the State
Committee Farm Home _ Administration.

 

He was also a past president of the Illinois
Angus Association.

1937

MAURICE CowL RIDER Jr., a long-time jour-
nalist and frequent contributor to the
New York Times, died Feb. 12, 1975. in
Charleston, S.C. At the time of his death
he was associate editor of the Evening Post
in Charleston. At one time Rider was an as-
sociate editor of the News Leader in Rich-
mond, Va. and on the editorial board of
the Wall Street Journal.

1939

WILLIAM KING SELF of Marks, Miss., well-
known businessman in the mid-South, died
Feb. 16. His principal business interest at
the time of his death was Pacific Buildings,
Inc., of which he was president and direc-
tor. He was also president and director of
North Delta Savings & Loan Association.
He was a member of the Chicago Board of
Trade, the New York Stock Exchange, and
a founding member of the World Business
Council. Self was president of Riverside In-
dustries, Inc., before this family-owned com-
pany was sold to Cook Industries of Mem-
phis. In addition to his business interests,
he was once the publisher of the Delta
Review, a regional magazine. He was a direc-
tor of the Mississippi Business and Indus-
trial Development Corp., the South Central
Bell Telephone Co., and the Mississippi
Opera Association. He was a former direc-
tor of the Federal Reserve Bank of St.
Louis, the National Association of Manu-
facturers, and the Federal Home Loan Bank
of Little Rock. He was a trustee of Missis-
sippi College at Clinton, the Memphis Aca-
demy of Arts, and the Mississippi Art As-

, 1951

ROBERT W. KIME, senior vice president and
trust officer of Mountain Trust Bank of
Roanoke, Va., died Jan. 20, 1975 in a Roa-
noke hospital. Kime began his career with
Mountain Trust in 1954 after having work-
ed for Marshall National Bank and Trust
Co. in Fauquier County and Flat Top Na-
tional Bank in Bluefield. He was named
vice president of Mountain Trust in 1964.
He served Washington and Lee University
in many capacities and was, for several years,
a member of the Alumni Fund Council.
Kime was a member of the Virginia State
and Roanoke Bar Associations.

Wel

 

 

nr
ae

yr

Inspiring examples of deferred giving

@ Kenneth Stevens came to Wash-
ington and Lee in 1946 to teach biology.
For much of the remainder of his life
he devoted his time, his skills and his
energy to preparing students at this Uni-
versity for careers in science, especially
in medicine.

Teaching science to undegraduates in
a relatively small liberal arts college can
often be a difficult and frustrating task,
but because of the dedication of Kenneth
Stevens and men like him, the sciences
have remained strong at Washington and
Lee, and Washington and Lee gradu-
ates continue to play significant roles in
science and medicine throughout the na-
tion.

Kenneth Stevens’ contribution to this
University did not stop when his teach-
ing career ended. At his death, in 1973,
he bequeathed to Washington and Lee
his library and his house in Lexington.
The proceeds from the sale of the house,
received during the past year, have es-
tablished a scholarship fund for a student
from Dr. Stevens’ native Connecticut.

@ Russell B. Reynolds Jr., was crip-
pled, so disabled by illness that the hills
of Lexington and the steps of campus
buildings rendered him virtually helpless
and dependent on the aid of a com-
panion. In his years as a student here,
1941 through 1946, he overcame obstacles
that others do not know exist and master-
ed the Washington and Lee education
he had sought.

When, years later, Reynolds died, his
father created a scholarship fund in his
memory, designed to assist other stu-
dents similarly afflicted to obtain an
education which his son had prized so
highly and which their physical condi-
tion might deny them. This year Wash-
ington and Lee received a final distribu-
tion to this scholarship fund under the
will of Russell Reynolds Sr., now himself
deceased.

@ Edward Hix received a B.S. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1917. The
career for which Washington and Lee
had prepared him took Edward Hix far
from Lexington; at his death he lived in
Portland, Ore. But he remembered _ his
alma mater and her need for unrestrict-
ed funds, and by his will bequeathed
$1,000 to Washington and Lee if his wife
should not survive him. Marjorie Hix

did in fact survive her husband but, in
1973, when she died, her will contained
the same bequest to this University.
‘To attract, hold and fairly com-
pensate the faculty that make this Uni-
versity great, to provide the facilities,
books and equipment that enable such
teachers and their students to pursue
greater knowledge effectively together, to
permit all students who wish to share this
pursuit to do so regardless of their fi-
nancial condition—in short, to maintain
the kind of University that inspired the
love of Kenneth Stevens, Russel Rey-
nolds and his father, and Edward and
Marjorie Hix, is ever more costly.
During the last fiscal year, payments
were received by Washington and Lee
from 10 estates, totalling more than
$1,700,000. Among the University’s needs
which some of these distributions will
help meet are scholarship and loan funds
from the estates of Katherine Colvin,
both the widow and the mother of a pro-
fessor here, and Walter McDonald, a
former trustee; a law library from the

estate of Wilbur C. Hall, distinguished
Virginia attorney; and an endowed chair,
now occupied by former Dean and Act-
ing President William W. Pusey III, from
the estate of S. Blount Mason.

In addition to the gifts which were
received from estates the University was
informed of insurance provisions made
for its benefit, the creation of trusts in
which it will share, and gifts made
through the Washington and Lee Pooled
Income Fund, all of which will ultimately
help it to face the challenges of the fu-
ture.

Building and planning for the future
require confidence and hope. Both are
provided by those friends and alumni
who decide to play a part in the future
by including Washington and Lee in
their estate plans. As the generosity of
George Washington nearly 200 years ago
has helped to create the University of
1975, the University that will be loved
by future generations will bear the im-
print of those who are remembering it
now.

 

A new group of alumni volun-
teers has begun work in coopera-
tion with the Office of University
Development’s effort to secure new
capital resources for Washington
and Lee. Martin P. Burks, ’32L,
chairman of the University’s Estate
Planning Council, has announced
that Class Agents for bequests and
deferred gifts have been chosen for
most classes, law and academic,
that graduated before 1951.

‘The Class Agents will under-
take to familiarize their classmates
with the areas in which Washing-
ton and Lee needs new capital and
with the many ways in which these
needs may be met through estate
planning. ‘They will make avail-
able information about wills, trusts,
life insurance, and other forms of
deferred giving.

The work of the Class Agents
will supplement the efforts of the

 

Estate Planning Class Agents

members of the Estate Planning
Council, a group of alumni formed
in 1971 and headed since its for-
mation by Burks. The Council, or-
ganized on a regional basis, will
continue to advise the Develop-
ment Office staff in the admini-
stration of the deferred giving pro-
gram and will help the staff ‘and
the class agents in giving planning
assistance to supporters throughout
the country.

Since the formation of the Coun-
cil, Washington and Lee has _ re-
ceived over $2.3 million in distri-
butions from estates. In addition
about $500,000 in new charitable
remainder trusts have been estab-
lished for the Universitys’ benefit
and Washington and Lee has creat-
ed a Pooled Income Fund which
now manages and invests approxi-
mately $900,000 of principal which
ultimately will come to W&L.

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

CF

 

 

 

 

LEWIS HALL

Lewis Hall, the new home of the Law
School, is rising on its site across
Woods Creek valley from the old
campus. In the scene above, Wilson
Field is just to the right out of the
picture; Washington Hall is barely
visible at the extreme top right;
Tucker Hall is just left of Washington
Hall. The Law School expects to
occupy the new building in the fall
of 1976. At the right is an architect's
model of Lewis Hall. ‘The entrance
is at the lower right of the picture,
with two open courts beyond. At the
left is a covered terrace, which can be
seen taking shape at the left in the
construction photograph above.

 

 

me

e
en a SS ean

—_—__

ue

»

eo ST

