Fear
a *

ys
~e

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university SPECIAL REPORT / May 1972

Ces

os
Jen
®*

 

 

 

VW

CS

SPECIAL REPORT

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 47, Number 4, May 1972

William C., Washburn 740.000.0000... ccccecceesseseeseeneene Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman.............0..0....... Managing Editor
Pg EEC ETO en hh ecient Associate Editor

and Photographer
onert:S. Keele; $08.52 kpecies csigecist. Contributing Editor
DORE LOVE Asa P OCR ico ey 5, occ sca) Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Commitment l
Leadership 2
The Greatest Event 4
“We're Eternally Grateful” 6
Functional, Efficient, Compatible — 8
Floor Plans 10
On the Frontiers of Law 17
With a Heritage of Service 19
Development Program Goals 21

 

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Sometimes (once in a great while) a news item
seizes the public’s imagination, and newspaper edi-
tors, aware of this swelling of interest, elaborate on
the item in their editorial columns. This was what
happened when Frances and Sydney Lewis an-
nounced their $g-million gift to construct W&L’s
new School of Law building and to provide the
‘‘seed endowment” for the Law Center. “Here,” the
public said, “is real commitment. Here is visible
proof of faith in private higher education. Here is
a gift that is ‘above and beyond . . .’”” On campus,
the excitement of staff, faculty, and students was
even greater. All concurred with the Board of
‘Trustees, who said, ‘‘We’re eternally and_pro-
foundly grateful.” An announcement of the gift
coincided with the planning of this issue of WeL,
which is devoted to a review of the status of the
Law alumni aspects of the University’s $56-million
development program, a description of the new
Lewis Hall, an explanation of how the new Law
Center will provide the School of Law with a “re-
search and development” arm, and a summary of
the contributions that W&L alumni have made and
are making to the profession of law.

On the cover: The architect’s model shows how
Lewis Hall will look when seen from the south.
Hogback Mountain may be seen in the background.
The site is across Woods Creek Valley from the
existing main campus and will be reached by a new
access road. ‘The integrity of the natural environ-
ment of the site will be preserved.

 

 

 

>)

SPECIAL REPORT:

Commitment

 

by Ross L. MALONE

University Trustee,

Chairman, Law Alumni Committee,
Washington and Lee Achievement Council;
Vice President and General Counsel,
General Motors Corporation

ste

 

A significant portion of the Washington and Lee Develop-
ment Program which was publicly announced on February
22, 1972, is assigned to meet the requirements of the School of
Law. All of our alumni, and especially the Law School gradu-
ates, are still savoring the thrill of the magnificent $9-million
gift of Frances and Sydney Lewis toward the total objective of
$13,125,000 for the Law School by 1976.

The present status of the overall Washington and Lee
Development Program is that the $36-million objective to be
achieved by 1976 has now been more than half accomplished.
We have slightly more than $18.5-million in gift commitments
at this time. These include $11.5-million in gift commitments
from members of the Board of Trustees, including the
Lewis gift. Commitments from the Law School Committee
itself are $320,000.

The Law School program—building and endowment—
constitutes $13,125,000 of the $36-million objective for 1976.
The Law School’s portion of the annual giving funds
expected to be realized during the period between now and
1976 is in addition to this figure. When all of the foregoing
has been taken into account, our Law School Committee’s
objective now is to raise $2,065,000, in addition to the
proceeds of current giving. This is for faculty support, schol-
arships, loan funds, and endowment for the Law School. We
especially need at least two named and endowed chairs on the
law faculty. ‘These require at least $500,000 each.

The Lewis gift has not relieved our obligation in this
Development Program. The gift has given us funds equal to
the cost of the building and a start on endowment needs.

It is important that our law alumni and other friends un-
derstand that memorial gifts or other “name gifts” are still
available for all parts of the Law School building. ‘The
Lewises have generously agreed that the funds contributed by
them will be used for the cost of building and furnishing
the Law School to the extent that they are needed for this
purpose. ‘The amount remaining will go into Law School en-
dowment and related needs mentioned above.

The following pages describe in some detail various aspects
of the Law School program, toward the realization of which
the Lewis gift has provided such great progress. We can
express our appreciation to Mr. and Mrs. Lewis in no more
appropriate way than by accomplishing the Law School
Committee’s remaining objective at an early date.

THE LAW SCHOOL

oevetoment proaraw: L@Adership

 

No university development pro-
gram can be a success without sub-
stantial, dedicated leadership on
the part of men who are willing to
give of their time and talents as
well as of their material wealth.

On this page are the names of the
men who make up the Law Alumni
Committee, which is one of the
five committees composing the
Washington and Lee Achievement
Council, and the names of the
University Trustees. With the leader-
ship of these men, and the generous
support of alumni, parents, and
friends, the Law School goal of the
Development Program will be met.

LAW ALUMNI COMMITTEE
Chairman:
Ross L. MALONE, Trustee

Vice-Chairmen:

JOHN BELL TowILyu

Lawyer

Hull, Towill & Norman
Augusta, Georgia

JOHN WILLIs BALL

Lawyer

Ulmer, Murchison, Ashby & Ball
Jacksonville, Florida

‘THOMAS ID. ANDERSON

Lawyer

Anderson, Brown, Orn, Pressler
Houston, Texas

JAMEs BLAND MARTIN
Lawyer

Martin, Hicks & Morris, Ltd.
Gloucester, Virginia

MARION G. HEATWOLE
General Counsel

U.S. Steel Corporation
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL
Lawyer

Douglas, O’Bera & Campbell
Washington, D.C.

JAMEs D. SPARKS, SR.

Lawyer

Thomas, Sparks & Cudd
Monroe, Louisiana

‘TRUSTEES

JOHN NEWTON THomaAs, D.D.
Rector

Professor of Systematic Theology
Union Theological Seminary
Richmond, Virginia

RosBerT E. R. HUNTLEY
President

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia

JOSEPH E. BIRNIE

Chairman of Executive Committee
National Bank of Georgia
Atlanta, Georgia

FRANK C. BRooks
Partner

Tongue, Brooks & Co.
Baltimore, Maryland

J. STEWART BUXTON
Retired Investment Counselor
Memphis, ‘Tennessee

JOHN L. CRIsT, JR.
Investor
Charlotte, North Carolina

E. WALLER DUDLEY

Lawyer

Boothe, Prichard, and Dudley
Alexandria, Virginia

THOMAS C. FRosT, JR.
Chairman & President
Frost National Bank
San Antonio, Texas

JOSEPH L. LANIER
Chairman (retired)

West Point-Pepperell, Inc.
West Point, Georgia

SYDNEY LEWIS
President

Best Products Co., Inc.
Richmond, Virginia

JosEPH T. LykKEs, Jr.

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
Lykes-Youngstown Corporation

New Orleans, Louisiana

Ross L. MALONE

Vice President and General Counsel
General Motors Corporation

New York, New York

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, Jr.
Senior Vice President

The Campbell Soup Company
Jamden, New Jersey

LEwIs F, POWELL, Jr.

Associate Justice

The Supreme Court of the United States
Washington, D.C.

IsADORE M. ScoTT

Chairman

Tri-Institutional Facilities Program
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

JOHN M. STEMMONS

President

Industrial Properties Corporation
Dallas, Texas

JAcK W. WARNER

President and Chairman
Gulf States Paper Company
‘Tuscaloosa, Alabama

JOHN W. WARNER
The Secretary of the Navy
Washington, D.C.

JOHN MINOR WIsDOM
Judge

Fifth U.S. Circuit Court
New Orleans, Louisiana

TRUSTEES EMERITI

CHRISTOPHER T. CHENERY
New York, New York

JOHN FRANKLIN HENDON
Birmingham, Alabama

HOMER A. HOLT
Charleston, West Virginia

WALTER ANDREW MCDONALD
Cincinnati, Ohio

HUSTON ST. CLarir, M.D.
Surfside, Florida

On facing page: President Robert E. R.
Huntley, Rector John Newton Thomas, and
Achievement Council Chairman John M.
Stemmons study the model of Lewis Hall.

 

 

THE LEWIS GIFT:

The Greatest Event

in the

Law School's History

 

Washington and Lee University
has received a gift of $9-million from
Frances and Sydney Lewis of Rich-
mond, Va., to support development of
the School of Law and to create a
new and innovative center for the
study of law in society.

The gift—largest in the history of
the University—will help make pos-
sible the early construction and
equipping of a $7-million law build-
ing which will bear the name Lewis
Hall. It will also establish the initial
endowment for the law center which
will be named the Frances Lewis
Law Center.

Mr. Lewis is founder and presi-
dent of Best Products, Inc., a Rich-
mond-based merchandising firm. He
is an alumnus of both the Wash-

ington and Lee undergraduate school
and of the School of Law and is a
member of the University Board of
‘Trustees. Frances Lewis is executive
vice president and a director of Best
Products.

University President Robert E. R.
Huntley announced the gift at a news
conference in Richmond on March
16. ‘I'he announcement came just 23
days after the University unveiled on
Washington’s Birthday a compre-
hensive development program to seek
$56-million by the end of the decade
of the 1970's, with $36-million of that
amount to be sought by 1976, the
200th anniversary of American in-
dependence.

Joining the President in announc-
ing the Lewis gift were Dr. John

 

 

TO QUOTE THE EDITORS...

“The wonderful gift of $9 million
to Washington and Lee University
by Richmonders Sydney and Frances
Lewis has to be among the most
exciting and significant develop-
ments in the 223-year history of that
independent institution of excel-
lence in Lexington. For Mr. and
Mrs. Lewis have extended a helping
hand at a critical hour not just for
W&L but for the small, privately
controlled liberal arts institution
generally.

‘For some such colleges, it is a
question of surviving the vicious
cross-fire of rising educational costs
and increased competition for stu-
dents from large, expanding, re-
latively low-tuition, state-controlled

institutions. For others, like Wash-
ington and Lee, it is a question of
continuing to play a national lead
ership role in higher education by
offering superior education within
the intimate setting of a small
college.

“... The best hope that such
institutions may continue to thrive,
free of governmental control, rests
on the generous support of thought-
ful alumni and friends, who are
cognizant not only of higher educa-
tion’s problems but of its promise
and continuing importance.”

— Richmond Times-Dispatch

President Huntley announced the Lewis gift
at a press conference in Richmond.

 

 

Newton Thomas of Richmond, rector
of the Board of Trustees; John M.
Stemmons of Dallas, Texas, chairman
of the Achievement Council, the or-
ganization created by the Board of
‘Trustees to institute the effort to
raise $36-million by 1976; and Roy L.
Steinheimer, dean of the School of
Law.

President Huntley said of the
Lewis gift: “I think it is bound to be
regarded as the greatest event in the
Law School’s history. It will enable
us to realize the dreams that we have
been at work on for the School of
Law for the last half decade. It will
allow us to fulfill those dreams in
ideal fashion so that the great heritage
in the School of Law can be carried
into the last half of this century and

 

 

 

-

 

into the next century with the
strength that is required for a law
program in these days.”

Dr. Thomas hailed “this magnific-
ent gift from Frances and Sydney
Lewis’ and commented, ““We have
much, much to be thankful for and
much to strive for.”

Mr. Stemmons said, ‘Our everlast-
ing debt and gratitude goes to Mr.
and Mrs. Lewis for making this great
contribution to this fine old institu-
tion—some 200 years old. It will
insure on our campus the finest Law
School in the entire country.”

Dean Steinheimer explained that
the Frances Lewis Law Center will
be an integral part of the School of
Law’s educational programs. “he
activities of the Law Center,” he said,

 

“will furnish an outlet for the re-
sources of the Law School beyond the
formal curriculum programs. The
endowment of the Law Center by the
Lewis gift will enable the Law School
to seek through research and experi-
mentation viable solutions to the
wide variety of social and economic
problems which require control and
direction under our legal process.
Thus the Law Center will be signifi-
cantly engaged in research and
development on the frontiers of the
law in our society.”’

The overall development program
calling for raising $56-million by the
end of the decade includes $24-mil-
lion for construction and major
renovations, $24-million in new
endowment funds, and nearly $8-

After the news conference at which the Lewis gift was announced, 12 of the 19
Washington and Lee Trustees gathered at lunch to honor Frances and Sydney Lewis.

million in annual giving for current
support of the academic program.

The School of Law’s objectives
through 1979 call for support
amounting to $16.5-million ($13,125,-
000 by 1976) and includes $7-million
for the new law building, $2-million
in special endowment for the Law
Center, $5.5-million in general
endowment, and $2-million in annual
giving for current operations.

The Board of Trustees in a resolu-
tion accepting the Lewis gift said
Washington and Lee is “eternally and
profoundly grateful” to Mr. and Mrs.
Lewis and declared that, in return,
the entire University family is re-
committed as strongly as possible to
meeting the objectives of the develop-
ment program.

iain
— Ses '

a i 4°?
, J tes
cae ee ~ ;

Witenes

Wi Ri pa Oe tie 9.059, ay se

Sy Mig i

ig
Rie
Ia t AQDOO R Sa Se at isla ies itt Bayi

*

Ny ta a ay
“Cag gy
weetion me

 

      

 

Mee
Pat tes
2 :
act aisle PM
Fy
.
@
of
3
ei

 

ee ee

#

 

ae

 

mr

 

 

 

THE LEWISES:

“We're eternally
and profoundly

grateful...”

— The Board of Trustees

 

Frances and Sydney Lewis chose
not to attend the news conference at
which their $9-million gift to Wash-
ington and Lee University was
announced. “It should be strictly
Washington and Lee’s occasion,”
they explained.

But the spirit of their altruism
was clearly felt. University President
Robert E. R. Huntley read to re-
porters a quotation from a letter
which Sydney Lewis had written
recently to Washington and Lee.
“This gift,” Mr. Lewis wrote, “is no
more in proportion to my means than
should be the gift of every man who
has come under the influence of
Washington and Lee University.”

The Lewises, deeply committed
to civic, charitable, and philanthropic
causes, are avid patrons of the arts.

Mr. Lewis is president and founder
of Best Products, Inc., a merchandis-
ing firm with showrooms in several
states. He received his B. A. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1940
and then attended the Washington
and Lee School of Law, the Harvard
University Graduate School of Busi-
ness Administration, and the George
Washington University School of
Law. He is a member of the bars of
Virginia and of the District of
Columbia.

Frances Aaronson Lewis is an
economics and French graduate of
the University of Michigan, where
she was elected to the Mortar Board
Society. She met her husband, she
recalls, “in the traditional way—at a
house party.” It was a Washington

Left: Frances and Sydney Lewis.

and Lee house party. ‘hey were
married in 1942. She has been a dyna-
mic force in the growth and success
of Best Products and is now executive
vice president and a director of the
company.

“Frances Lewis is so energetic, and
vivacious, and dynamic, and fun-
loving,” a friend said, “that if we
didn’t already have those words we
would have to coin them for her.”

She is a member of the board of
Old Dominion Cablevision, former
president of the Richmond Section of
the National Council of Jewish
Women and a former member of the
Council’s national board. She has been
vice chairman of the executive com-
mittee for Family and Child Welfare
of the Richmond Area Community
Council and chairman of the Women’s
Division of the Jewish Welfare Fund
Campaign. Among the boards she has
served on are the Virginia Women’s
Council of Legislative Chairmen of
State Organizations, the Jewish Family
Service, Beth Sholom Home of Vir-
ginia, Richmond Area Community
Council, Beth Ahabah Sisterhood, and
the Richmond Council of Human
Relations.

The Lewises have a major collection
of painting and sculpture in their
Richmond home. On one wall in their
living room is a major painting by
internationally known artist E. P.
Twombly, Jr., the son of Washington
and Lee’s Cy ‘T'wombly. ‘The house is
indeed virtually a gallery in itself,
containing art works in nearly every
medium and in every style.

Sydney Lewis is also president of
New Standard Publishing Co., Inc.

He is a member of the Washington
and Lee Board of Trustees and also a
member of the boards of Virginia
Union University, the Mediterranean
Society, and the Jewish Family Serv-
ices of Richmond. He is a past presi-
dent of the Southern Region Council
of Jewish Federations and of the
Richmond Jewish Community Coun-
cil. Among the boards he has served
on are the Richmond Area Com-
munity Council and ‘Temple Beth
Ahabah.

While at Washington and Lee, he
was president of his social fraternity,
Phi Epsilon Pi, played on the Gen-
erals’ basketball team each of his four
undergraduate years, and was active
in the Athletic Council, the Intra-
mural Board, the Christian Council,
Interfraternity Council, and the Mono-
gram Club. He was a junior law
representative on the Student Body
Executive Committee and was elected
to Omicron Delta Kappa leadership
fraternity.

The Lewises have three children—
Sydney, Jr., a 1966 graduate of
Washington and Lee; Andrew, a
Harvard alumnus, who is a director
of Best Products, Inc. and spokesman
for the firm; and Susan Butler, a
graduate of Boston University and
now a member of the fine arts staff of
the Houston Chronicle.

The significance of the Lewis gift
to Washington and Lee was given
this perspective by John M. Stem-
mons, chairman of the Washington
and Lee Achievement Council: “I
doubt that there has ever been a gift
more meaningful to a private in-
stitution.”

wee lU6!l lee

LL ES ea

 

a _

 

LEWIS HALL:

Functional,
Efficient,
Compatible

 

Lewis Hall, the new law building made possible by
the gift of Frances and Sydney Lewis, will enable the
Washington and Lee School of Law to move out of
its cramped quarters in ‘Tucker Hall into one of the most
functional and efficient law school facilities in the
nation. More, it will enable the School to expand its
contributions to legal education and, through its
Frances Lewis Law Center, to become a pioneer in the
investigation and analysis of problems associated with
the development of the law and legal processes.

The new building, to be located on the site of the
old tennis courts across Woods Creek Valley from the
present campus, will give the Law School six times more
space than it now has in crowded Tucker Hall. It will
allow the School of Law to increase its enrollment from
the present 250 students to 350 men and women (the
School began this year accepting women applicants for
the beginning class in September, 1972) and to increase
its faculty from 14 to between 20 and 25. This larger
enrollment and teaching staff is the size that the
University, after many years of study, has determined
is ideal for the most effective and efficient conduct of a
law program of the quality and size of Washington and
Lee’s. The new building will accommodate generously
all of the curricular and co-curricular activities of a
student body of this size, with room to spare for the
research and development activities of the Frances
Lewis Law Center.

Today’s 250 students and faculty are “making-do”’

Bas ee y > ai
< < a anaes

Model of Lewis Hall, looking across Woods Creek Valley.

 

8

in the inadequate facilities available in Tucker Hall,
every nook and cranny of which has been pressed into
service. Tucker Hall, completed in 1936, was designed

to accommodate approximately 100 students. It was an
ideal law facility until the enrollment doubled during
the past decade. Studies have shown clearly that it would
be difficult to enlarge, remodel, or renovate Tucker

Hall into a first-rate facility for the size of student body
and activities which a law program of excellence
demands today and in the future.

The Law School planners have concluded that in-
creasing the enrollment from 250 to 350 over a period of
years can be accomplished without losing the personal
touch in legal training which has been a hallmark
of a Washington and Lee law education. Future law
students will benefit from an expanded library, richer
curriculum, and greater resources for legal research.
The School will increase the flow of graduates into
professional ranks, broaden the base of alumni support,
increase placement opportunities, and strengthen efforts
to recruit qualified students. Its Frances Lewis Law
Center will put the School on the frontiers of legal
research and development.

The decision to increase the law enrollment was
made before the start of the current nation-wide
movement toward law education, a trend that has caused
virtually every law school to experience an upsurge
in applications in recent years. But the increase at
Washington and Lee has been dramatic in terms of
both the numbers and the qualifications of the applicants.
There were 300 applicants in 1968; there were 816 in
1971. And this year, the Law School has received more
than 1,400 applications, 15 for each available place in
the September entering class. During this same period
the median grade-point average of entering students
has risen from 2.5 to 3.0, and their average Law
School Admission Test score has gone from 523 to 602.

Architectural plans and specifications for the new
law building have been in preparation for more than
two years and are near completion. The University
expects to call for bids by the end of this summer. Con-
struction could begin by the end of the year, and Lewis

 

 

Hall is expected to be ready for classes by the start of
the 1975-76 academic year.

The site itself—across the ravine behind the old
campus and just to the north of Wilson Field—was
important to the design of the building and was selected
by the University based on extensive studies for the
new master plan for the University as worked out by
Griswold, Winters, and Swain, landscape architects
and planners, of Pittsburgh, Pa. The University 1s
proceeding with plans to develop the ravine, build
access roads, redesign and expand the present central
utilities plant, construct walkways and provide adequate
parking in conjunction with the development of Lewis
Hall. A prime advantage of the site is that it is within
easy walking distance of the existing main campus.

The architects have made every effort to make the
new building reflect existing University buildings and
at the same time make it a functional facility for the
teaching of law. The architects are Marcellus Wright,
Cox & Cilimberg of Richmond. Hankins and Anderson
of Richmond are consulting mechanical and electrical
engineers, and Harris, Norman & Giles of Richmond
are consulting structural engineers.

The architects have proceeded from the following
rationale: ‘For a new structure to be worthy of Washing-
ton and Lee University, it must be more than just a
functionally efficient package. .. . The oldest buildings
have made, through their charm, scale and originality of
architectural expression, a lasting contribution to the
architectural and cultural education of generations of
Washington and Lee graduates. It has been our goal to
produce a contemporary, but compatible architectural
expression and contribution for future generations in
the new law facility without attempting to produce a
facsimile of the old.”

Accordingly, the exterior building materials will be
concrete lightly sand-blasted to give a slight texture to
the white surfaces of the columns and horizontal panels.
The brick to be used on the vertical faces will recall
the color range of brick in the Washington College
group of buildings. Windows will be of tinted glass.

On the main level the interior will have ceilings of
exposed coffered panels of concrete. Ceilings in other
areas will be of rough textured acoustical tile. Walls in
public areas will be exposed brick, plaster and glass;
walls in work areas will be painted concrete masonry
blocks. A great deal of carpeting will be used for
floors, with some brick and vinyl asbestos and ceramic
tile in work areas. Wood paneling and strips will be
employed in the classrooms and other areas such as the
faculty lounge for both acoustical and aesthetic reasons.
The materials are intended to give the building a
harmonious, yet simple and elegant feeling throughout.
At the same time, they will help to keep maintenance
expenses at the lowest possible level.

The architects have arranged spaces and functions in
the building around two handsome courtyards. ‘The
landscape architects have designed an imaginative plan
for the use and planting of these areas, an aspect con-
tributing to the personality and beauty of the structure.

As designed, there are six categories of space within
Lewis Hall: (1) library and study carrels; (2) classrooms;
(3) faculty offices and facilities; (4) student activities;
(5) administration; (6) miscellaneous services. ‘hese
categories and their components have been interrelated
and have been planned to produce a functionally
efficient law school and an aesthetically stimulating
environment.

 

 

TO QUOTE THE EDITORS...

‘Washington and Lee University, the legal profession,
and the Commonwealth of Virginia will derive far-
reaching benefits from a $9 million gift to W&L from
Sydney Lewis and his wife.

“Along with most private institutions of higher learn-
ing, Washington and Lee has problems of promoting
excellence in education without pricing itself out of
existence through increasing tuition charges. The Lewis
gift which ranks among the largest ever made to a private
institution, boosts the University more than halfway
toward a development goal of $36 million set for 1976.”

— Norfolk Virginian-Pilot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Student
Carrels

Visiting
Attorneys

| Student
Carrels

 

 

 

 

Library Reading Room

 

Terrace

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Library
Rare Books Catalogue
I Area
i.
| Library 1910
| Offices 0/010
| Sieeos
Library
Work
Area
(PRIA ROLES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
  

 

Library
Work Area

‘Main Level Plan

10

 

    

Student
Carrels

 

 

 

 

Reserve
Books

J
[

Media
Room

el

fa 2

 

 

-—— — poy
WH
Entry | Seminar
UE Room _
= Oe mm CS
r TL!
| §§ §@. : cena

TL

Court Yard

Court Yard

a oe
|

 

  
  
  
   
   

 

o 0
Coo
+

 

+
TOOU0U

 

Classroom fo Classroom 0
—-+4-— ot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Seminar
Room

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

>
*

 

 

 

 

 

. Faculty hy tous he a
| Fe i_— +

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

=a

peal

Faculty
Library

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ictjzicry
1s
CI
st

TI

 

jeyayeyp.

aculty Offices

bei tiaheem etal
g

7

 

       
   

Student Carrels

 

 

4 Student
Carrels

Library
Stack
Area

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Secretaries

Faculty Offices
|

ee

 

crt!

  

 

 

.

   

     
   

 

Mechanical
Equipment

 

  
 

Law
Review

 

Upper Level Plan

   
   

Mechanical
Equipment

 

Library

Stack {
Area bd

 

   

  

Library
Work Area

 

 

    

 

‘

Basement Plan

Aerial photo of campus
shows location of Lewis Hall.

    

 

Administrative
Offices

 

  
 

 

 

Carrels

 

 

 

 

 

 

sli
[ Student
Activities

Area
mS
ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

My

 

 

 

ie.

Lower Level Plan

 

The areas depicted on these floor plans reflect the re-
lationship of the various components of the building to
one another, but detailed arrangements within these
areas will be changed in some respects.

a

 

il

 

The library is probably the most important single
element in the School of Law and has been planned
to assure the utmost efficiency in its function as the
main source of research material for students, professors,
and practicing attorneys. It has been treated in a
flexible manner to take account of rapid advances in
library science in the areas of microfilm and electronic
transmittal of stored data. It has been designed to
accommodate 150,000 volumes. ‘This compares with
the 46,000 volumes now jammed in the old library
system in Tucker Hall.

The reading room, located with access from the main

floor of the building, will seat 70 students. Approxi-
mately 15,000 constantly used volumes will be housed in

  
  

3 P ea x . SH Lai :
oe ee a
P F
: ee Me de
i se i as a es . -
eg Oe oN OO a ae tae ts Es %,
aie ah 2 Sein he | ge le e %
ba iaPteyalach ae k ” i noel

™ * em

This architectural rendering depicts the library reading room.

 

 

12

this area on movable shelving. A pleasant office will be
provided for use by visiting attorneys and, when not
in use by them, will be available for conferences by
law school personnel.

Adjoining the reading room are study carrels—actually
small offices—for each of the 350 students. ‘This is one
of the building’s most innovative features. These carrels
will be the home base for each individual student. ‘They
will serve as a physical link between the classrooms
and the remainder of the building. Each carrel will
contain ample work space, storage space for books,
locker space, provisions for hanging coats, and a com-
fortable chair. Carrels may be adapted to house elec-
trical communication devices of the future.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee ee eS eee eee, COL. ee

ee

 

 

In addition to the library stack area, there will be a
reserve book room to which the public will not have
free access. This separate area will be adjacent to the
reading room and main library desk. The desk area will
be glass-enclosed to minimize disturbances its operation
might cause to the reading room and reserve book room.

A rare book room will house the Burks collection,
which is a valuable part of the library materials and
contains many rare books. An area overlooking the
main reading room will be provided for the develop-
ment of this collection. It will form the core for an
excellent set of historic materials on Virginia law and
will be useful to lawyers as well as scholars.

The library complex will also provide appropriate
office space for the library staff along with ample room
for processing considerable quantities of books and
materials. Work and processing areas will be located

adjacent to the loading dock where the books are received.

The classrooms and seminar rooms will be grouped
and located on the main floor with easy access to and
from the main entrance, the student carrels, and the
faculty offices on the upper level. A gallery-type
corridor will be provided in this area as a passageway for
students changing classes.

‘There will be two classrooms seating 50 students;
three classrooms seating 75 students; one assembly hall
and moot court room seating 175 students, and a number
of seminar rooms.

The classrooms will be tiered and tapered toward
the lecturer and have at least two means of access.

The seminar rooms are designed to be pleasant, well-
proportioned rooms, comfortably furnished, conducive
to the informal discussion.

All classrooms will accommodate multi-media teaching
aids, such as projectors and other visual-aid teaching
devices. A concealed screen can be lowered or raised at
the push of a button. Classrooms will contain television
monitors to receive outside broadcasts or closed-circuit
transmissions from the moot court room, which will be
fully equipped to record and broadcast internally, both
audio and video.

Provisions will be made for 22 faculty offices. ‘These
offices will be located in proximity to the main library

and will also be readily accessible to students and visitors.
The faculty offices, faculty lounge, and faculty library
will be tied together as a unit so that one has the feeling
that this area is a pleasant workshop for a community

of scholars.

A spacious faculty library will be provided. ‘This
library will house 15,000 volumes in movable stacks
which can be arranged to provide several study areas
with suitable furniture. By providing a separate set of
essential materials exclusively for faculty use, faculty
time is saved and research is facilitated and encouraged.
The faculty lounge incorporated in the faculty area
will be attractively decorated and furnished to encourage
faculty members to gather informally for relaxation
and discussion. It will also serve as a center for informal
entertainment of visitors.

Facilities for the faculty secretarial staff will be
located in an area of the building contiguous to the
faculty office area. This area will be partitioned in a
suitable manner to reduce noise and confusion. It will
also have space for storage of secretarial equipment and
supplies as well as copying and reproduction equipment.

For the first time in many years adequate space will
be provided for student activities. The Law Review
office will consist of one large room with glass partitions
enclosing several areas for use as offices by the editors
and staff of this important publication. ‘The rest of the
area will be partitioned work space for students and will

 

— ee
a

Pe eTE rrr: |
bagi isvate

 

 

 

Faculty offices will be comfortable, businesslike.

13

 

 

 

 

 

The moot court will have the “feel” of an actual courtroom.

ne
a
Pees

F
ra
:
;
Hi
Soe ‘
wh ash gs
i -
F «4 i
5 Po a
é p=
ee mA i
Pty ~ f
és * Pe
ae ; Fa
ay Shy |
ae f
. ee
moe,
: bs eRe
= ie
ee. ; ;
fi by "
: -
Bay
iy
iy ba

 

 

contain shelving and storage space for books and ma-
terials. An adjacent smaller office will be provided to
house the secretarial and clerical staff.

Office space for the Legal Aid and Research Associa-
tion will be arranged and located in much the same way
as the Law Review area.

The office of the Student Bar Association will be large
enough to house an office for the president and for the
treasurer and to provide space for conferences of officers
and committees of the organization. Space for secretarial
and staff personnel and an office for the student-edited
Lawyer magazine will be located in this area.

Ample student lounge facilities will be available to
students for relaxation and also to encourage their full
use of Law School resources.

Space for a book store will be provided near the
receiving room for the library so that books can be
handled and distributed with dispatch.

14

The administrative offices will be located on the
upper level near the main entrance and will be large
enough to accommodate any increase in the size of the
administrative staff which the increase in the size of the
student body may necessitate.

The dean’s area will consist of two offices—for the
dean and assistant dean. There will also be a conference
room in the dean’s area which can be used by the dean
and members of the faculty for conferences.

The Frances Lewis Law Center’s main locus of activity
will adjoin both the administrative and faculty areas
of the new building. There will be an office for the
director of the Law Center, research offices for visiting
scholars and staff, and a conference-seminar room. All
physical resources of the Law School, however, are
expected to support the varied activities associated
with the Law Center.

The entire building will be air-conditioned.

 

Lewis Hall will be the third home of the Washington
and Lee School of Law. The first, a stone building,

was erected in 1899 at the northern end of the Colonnade. |

This building, also named ‘Tucker Hall in honor of

John Randolph ‘Tucker, the first dean, was destroyed by |

fire with all contents on December 16, 1934. ‘The new
Tucker Hall was built on the site of the old and was
occupied in the spring of 1936. In the spring edition of
the Washington and Lee Alumni Magazine that year,
Charles P. Light, Jr., professor of law and later dean of
the School, described the new ‘Tucker Hall by taking

his readers on a verbal tour of the building. Coming at
last to the seminar room and auxiliary room on the third
floor at the back of the building, he wrote: “Here,
looking out the windows toward the mountains across
Wood’s Creek Valley we end our journey.”

Little did Dean Light suspect then that the lovely
vista upon which he gazed would encompass the site of
Lewis Hall, a facility to match the dreams of any law
school and one that will embark the Washington and

~ Lee School of Law upon a new journey of service

in the field of legal education.

 

 

PTOQVUOTE THE EDITORS. -.

“The stunning gift of $9 million from the Sydney
Lewis family of Richmond to Washington and Lee
provides a solid springboard for the University’s $36-
million development program.

‘“_.. Though the ties between the donor and the
University are deep and long, the generosity is still
unusual. But only through such gifts can Virginia pri-
vate institutions hope to continue to develop their
facilities.

“The gift does not have W&L officials thinking in
terms of a massive program. The new building is planned
for a student body of 350. The thorough planning that
has already gone into the new facility will, however, all
but guarantee that the W&L tradition of smallness with

excellence will continue.”
— Roanoke World-News

“Washington and Lee authorities are jubilant at the
announcement of a $9 million gift from alumnus Sydney
Lewis and his wife for a new law building and center—
and justly so.

“.. The gift provides great impetus to the announce-
ment a month ago by the University of its plan to raise
$56 million by 1979, $36 million of it by 1976. It brings
to $18 million the amount already pledged to the
campaign, half of the 1976 goal. Some eyebrows were
raised when the size of this campaign was announced,
but its realization now appears much more attainable.

“ ,. Expenditure of $24 million for new buildings,
including the law school, a library, student housing, and
remodeling of existing structures will greatly add to
campus facilities while another $24 million for endow-
ment to supplement faculty salaries, student aid, and
other activities will broaden programs and have a great
impact on educational life in general at the school.

“At a time when a more-or-less discouraging picture
is being painted of the future of smaller, independent
colleges, Washington and Lee seems assured of an
important and growing place in the educational life of
the state and nation.”
— The Lexington News-Gazette

“By this time, everyone involved with Washington
and Lee has learned about the $9 million Sydney and
Frances Lewis gift to the University. Certainly the
donation was most generous, and everyone here, students,
faculty, administrators and other members of the W&L
community, is most grateful.

“Yet one thing concerning this gift has been largely
overlooked: Mr. Lewis’ attitude concerning the support
of W&L. The Richmond trustee stated that he gave what
he felt able to sacrifice to his alma mater. He believes
everyone should share that conviction. That is food for
thought for all soon-to-be alumni.”

— The Ring-tum-Phi

 

 

15

 

The physical metamorphosis of Washington and
Lee’s School of Law may be seen in these photographs.
The first Tucker Hall was completed just before the
turn of the century. When it burned almost four decades
ago, it was replaced by the current Tucker Hall. Now,
having long outgrown these quarters, the School of Law
is looking forward to its new home in Lewis Hall.

The model below shows the proposed entrance to the

new law complex.
. "3 ‘

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

Fite
U4 Teh
Fam
is

 

ri
#
z,
oe
a
OE ‘anid
oe
Pond
as

4 ,
‘

7

a "
i ~-

16

THE LAW CENTER:

On the
Frontiers
of Law

 

 

Roy L. STEINHEIMER
Dean, School of Law

The Frances Lewis Law Center
will add a new and vital dimension
to the educational process in the
School of Law at Washington and Lee
University.

The activities of the Law Center
will bring the total resources of the
School of Law to bear on finding
viable solutions to significant prob-
lems which are on the frontiers of the
law and of our society.

Roy L. Steinheimer, dean of the
School of Law, put it this way: “In
essence, the Law Center provides our
School of Law with a research and
development laboratory in which the
best legal talent can come to grips
with social and economic problems
in an imaginative and constructive
fashion in the hope that effective
solutions to these problems can be
developed and tested. These activities
will inevitably broaden the total
impact of the School.”

A distinctive feature of the Frances
Lewis Law Center is its emphasis
upon the involvement and teaching
of candidates for the first degree in
law as distinguished from law gradu-
ate students. It thus forms a basic
part of the Washington and Lee
School of Law’s concept for the
teaching of law.

The new law building, Lewis Hall,
will provide a “home” for the Law
Center. ‘he facilities for the Law
Center include nine research offices
and several conference rooms for the
use of those who are involved in the
work of the Law Center. In addition,
the other accommodations of Lewis
Hall, such as the law library, the audi-
torium, and seminar rooms, will be

used extensively by the Law Center.

A director will be named to co-
ordinate the work of the Law Center.
Personnel who will be engaged in
research activities of the Center will
be drawn primarily from the faculty
and students during the summer
months. For projects which merit
more extended attention, faculty
members will be able to obtain leaves
for a semester or a year to devote
their full time to the work of the Law
Center. Students will assist in such
projects even during the regular
school year on a part-time basis.

Lawyers, judges, and visiting
faculty will also be invited to partici-
pate in Law Center projects where
appropriate, with students in the
Law School supporting them in their
activities. The end result will be an
enrichment of the educational process
in the School of Law for both the
students and the faculty.

‘‘Focusing these fine legal minds on
the problems of the day in the at-
mosphere of intellectual ferment
which should pervade the Law Center
will inevitably generate new ideas
and new approaches which can be of
lasting value,” Dean Steinheimer
explained.

The activities of the Law Center
will be diverse. Support of continuing
education programs for members of
the legal profession will be involved
to some extent. At a higher and more
creative level, seminar-type meetings
of experts—legal and non-legal—will
be sponsored by the Law Center to
probe, investigate, discuss, and make
recommendations with respect to
problems on the sensitive perimeters

17

 

of the law. For example, such semi-
nars might, at this point in time, deal
with such problems as consumer
protection, ecology, judicial admini-
stration, tax structure, post-conviction
handling of criminals, women’s
rights, and genetic engineering.

One hesitates to predict what the
problems will be several decades from
now, but whatever they may be, the
Law Center will be prepared to cope
with them. Out of seminars of the
kind contemplated will come ideas
for constructive planning for hand-
ling the problems under study.

With the facilities available in
Lewis Hall, the events occurring in
these seminars can be preserved for
future study and reference on audio

 

and audio-visual tape. Where appro-
priate, the proceedings at these
seminars can also be published in the
form of printed materials. Many of
these materials, both on tape and in
printed form, will be distributed to
other educational institutions and to
professional groups.

Individual members of the faculty
and visitors to the School of Law will
be sponsored in research projects
which will also probe the frontiers
of the law. The results of these re-
search efforts will be preserved and
distributed in printed form. ‘The in-
formation and ideas generated in
these projects will often form the basis
for constructive changes in the law.
The nature and variety of projects

Lewis Hall as it will look from the parking lot at the rear of the building.

18

will depend only on the interest and
imagination of the faculty members
who want to become involved in the
activities of the Law Center.

In sum, as Dean Steinheimer put it,
“The Law Center will become a
force for constructive development
and change in our legal system and
in the legal process.”’

The generous gift of Frances and
Sydney Lewis furnishes the initial
endowment needed to establish the
Frances Lewis Law Center and as-
sures the School of Law of a function
which will complement the formal
educational process and will be a
source of strength to the School of
Law and to society over the years
ahead.

THE LAW ALUMNI:

Witha
Heritage
of Service

 

The Washington and Lee School of Law has a rich
heritage extending over more than a century. This
heritage is mirrored by the generations of men who
while learning the law in its halls were also inspired to
take leading roles in the affairs of their community,
state, and nation.

Over the years, the School has refined and redesigned
its educational program to meet the complexities and
requirements of an ever-changing society. But it has
remained steadfast in its determination to produce not
merely lawyers, but men who reflect that strength of
character and integrity which is an ideal for every
Washington and Lee man.

Today, as in the past, men who have studied law at
Washington and Lee may be found in all sections of
the country, distinguishing themselves in the private
practice of law, in the judiciary, in corporate counselship,
in state and federal service, in legal education, and in
business. In addition- to their professional work, a large
majority voluntarily engage in civic endeavors that form
the bedrock of community life.

An atmosphere of intimacy characterizes the School
of Law. Close faculty-student relationships in and out
of the classroom as well as meaningful relationships
among students themselves are easily established. ‘This
atmosphere helps develop in students that strong sense
of responsibility which the lawyer bears to his clients and
to his community.

This has been so from the beginning. Scholarly inti-
macy was a strong characteristic of the Lexington
Law School, founded in 1849 by Judge John White
Brockenbrough, a federal district judge and rector of
the Board of Trustees of Washington College. In 1866,
General Lee invited Judge Brockenbrough to associate
his school with the College, and in 1870 the School of
Law became a permanent division of the University.

The Lexington Law School itself produced men of
notable achievement, including a governor of Virginia,
a solicitor-general of the United States, a minister to
Bolivia, and a superintendent of the Virginia Military
Institute.

Graduates of the Washington and Lee School of Law
continued to distinguish themselves in the legal

profession and in public service. By 1936 the late Dr.
Francis P. Gaines declared that “volumes might be
written on the success achieved by the students of this
Law School.”

Volumes were indeed written about two distinguished
graduates of the 19th century. They were John W.
Davis, congressman, solicitor-general, ambassador to
Great Britain, and the 1924 Democratic candidate for
President; and Newton D. Baker, Jr., reform mayor of
Cleveland, Secretary of War under Woodrow Wilson,
and an eloquent champion of the League of Nations.

Washington and Lee law alumni, in large numbers
now and in the past, have served with distinction as
judges at every level of the judiciary.

Among them today is Lewis F. Powell, Jr., of
Richmond, Va., Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme
Court, who was appointed to that post in October, 1971,
by President Nixon. (One other alumnus of the School
of Law, J. Rucker Lamar of Georgia, served on the
U. S. Supreme Court from 1911 to 1916; and two other
alumni of Washington and Lee’s predecessor institutions,
Thomas Todd and Robert Trimble, both of Kentucky,
were Supreme Court justices.)

Mr. Justice Powell is a member of the University
Board of ‘Trustees. Another ‘Irustee is also in the
federal judiciary, Judge John Minor Wisdom of the
U. S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in New
Orleans. ‘I'wo of Mr. Powell’s 1931 law classmates are
federal judges: Walter E. Hoffman, Chief Judge, U. S.
District Court in Norfolk, Va., and J. Robert Martin,
Chief Judge, U. S. District Court in Greenville, S$. C. Also
serving on the U. S. District Court in Norfolk is another
alumnus, Judge John C. A. MacKenzie. And in Florida,
Norman C. Roettger has been nominated to be U. S.
District Judge for the Southern District. Many other
alumni are serving as U. S. Attorneys and in other
capacities in the federal and state court systems.

A recent but incomplete survey of alumni showed that
76 Washington and Lee alumni are judges of state
courts throughout the country, 56 of whom are graduates
of the School of Law. The survey indicated that 34
Washington and Lee law alumni are on the bench in
Virginia. (In 1968, a tally of W&L men holding
judicial positions in Virginia disclosed this pattern:

19

 

 

 

Judge Brockenbrough Newton D. Baker, Jr.

two alumni holding federal judicial office; two on the
State Supreme Court of Appeals; 10 circuit court
judges; four corporation court judges; three judges of
hustings courts; two judges of city courts of record, and
11 county court judges.)

Washington and Lee alumni have rendered extensive
service to professional organizations. Five alumni have
been president of the American Bar Association, a
record matched by only two other law schools in the
country, Harvard and Columbia. Two of these former
ABA presidents are Trustees of the University, Mr.
Justice Powell and Ross L. Malone, vice president and
general counsel of General Motors, Corp. in New York.
The others were Henry St. George Tucker, John W.
Davis, and Scott M. Loftin. Many law alumni are
serving today as officers of local and state bar associations.

Washington and Lee law graduates are also promi-
nent in business, banking, insurance, and higher educa-
tion. For example, law alumni serve as general counsel
or chief administrators of the legal staffs of such firms
as General Motors, U. S. Steel, Union Carbide, American
Telephone & Telegraph, Norfolk and Western Railway,
and Campbell Soups. President Huntley of Washington
and Lee is himself a graduate of the Law School and
so is Luther W. White, III, president of Randolph-
Macon College.

Law alumni have also made their marks in government
at every level. ‘I'wenty-six Washington and Lee alumni

20

John W. Davis

Lewis F. Powell, Jr.

have been governors of states, and 10 of these were law
graduates. Of the eight alumni who have been governors
of Virginia, four studied law at W&L. Six graduates

of the School of Law have been among the 23 W&L
alumni who have served in the U. S. Senate. Of the 62
alumni who have been members of the U. S. House of
Representatives, 24 were graduates of the School of Law.

Virginia offers a sample of the legislative service of
law graduates at the state level. Fifteen Washington
and Lee men served in the 1972 session of the Virginia
General Assembly; 10 of these senators and representa-
tives were W&L law graduates. And in many localities,
Washington and Lee law alumni may be found in
positions of mayor, city councilmen, and city attorneys.

The School of Law and its graduates have written a
record of achievement to be envied by any law school.
Now it stands on the threshold of even wider service as
it increases its enrollment from the present 250 to an
optimum of 350, and gains the use of the functional and
efficient facilities to be afforded by Lewis Hall.

Still the attention of the School of Law remains
focused upon law as a universal discipline. It will be in
a stronger position to meet its fundamental objective of
providing training “in methods of legal analysis and
in the use of legal principles and techniques to resolve
the problems arising out of the activities of people in
our complex society.”’

Development
Program Goals
for the Decade

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

CF

Tucker Hall will continue its tradition of education as a classroom building.

-

oe
&

 

