the alumni magazine of washington and lee university WINTER 1974

a
<

}
RA tone

tr) 3/7alu

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS, JR., THE NEW RECTOR

 

 

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 49, Number 7, November 1974

William C. Washburn, °40....00000.000 ee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman.................... .... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68.00.0000... ee Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter... cece Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, °73

MAE URINTE oasis cases cca cknesdcsasessescoasoesyecesnrnrss Photographers

TABLE OF CONTENTS |

Nuckols is New Rector ............0ccceccceeeeeteeeteees ]
Interview with Nuckols ....0..0..0..0...c:c:cceeeeeeeeee 2
Special Conference Report ..............00.c: cee 7
Mount Vernon “Homecoming” .................0.0005 12
Alumni Program Ideas Sought .......................08. 15
Innovative Ethics Program. .................0ceee 16
WEL News Bricks ooo... ccc eceseeeeenseees 18
Liberty Hall Linens Aid W&L .......0.00 ce. 22
Dabney Stuart, Poet ...0..0..0.0 ener 23
Football Losses by the Inch ......0...0.0 ee 24
Cy Twombly, A Tribute 0.0.00... ee 25
A.~Christian Compton, A Profile .................. toe
Milton Colvin Abroad. .................. ee eh 28
Name Your Candidate 2.0.0.0... 29
Tokyo Alumni ................ ne eee aed et 30
RIM FOUN once cce cela scsecesgentpesecsousescnsoscossecnsseeres 31
NN bikie tetanic 33
BE PII anaes cc scdisclesscicon cen ctceecssstedetvetersen 39
Johnson Scholarship .............0.0.00..0000. Inside Back

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. (Application pending
for change of frequency.)

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.
President

RICHARD D. HAYNEs, ’58, Dallas, Texas
Vice President

C. Royce HouGu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Tuomas B. BRANCH, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darby, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, '41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
SAMUEL B. HO. is, ’51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
"THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, Texas
CourRTNEY R. Mauzy, Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.
CHARLES C. STIFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ‘ToucutTon, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

ON THE COVER: E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., the

new Rector of the Board of Trustees (See Page 1)
was photographed in his office at Campbell Soup
Co., where he granted the editors a lengthy in-
terview. In that conversation he talked about the
many challenges and opportunities that he and
Washington and Lee face in their continuing close
relationship. The interview begins on Page 2.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of
Congress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of
March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: WeL, phe —
Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee University is own- ~
ed by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., and is
entered as second class matter at the Post Office in Lexington,
Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges at Roa-
noke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn is editor and
business manager. His address is Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no bond, mort-
gage, or other security holders. The average number of copies
of each issue during the 12 preceding months was 15,500.

 

 

Nuckols

1S

new Rector

E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., of Newtown, Pa., senior
vice president of Campbell Soup Co., has been elected
Rector of the Board of Trustees. Nuckols succeeds
the late Ross L. Malone, who died Aug. 13, less than
a year after his election as Rector. Malone was vice
president and general counsel of General Motors Corp.

Nuckols’ election took place at the autumn Board
meeting, held this year in Alexandria. The traditional
title “Rector,” which traces back to 18th-century \
Liberty Hall Academy, is the equivalent to chairman
of the board.

Nuckols has been a Trustee of Washington and
Lee since 1969, when he was nominated for Board
membership by vote of his fellow alumni—the first
Board member to have been elected to office in that
manner. He had been national president of the
W&L Alumni Association in 1965-66.

The new Board Rector earned his B.A. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1933 and his LL.B. degree
two years later. He was associated with the Wash-
ington, D.C., law firm of Covington & Burling from
1935 until 1942, when he joined Campbell Soup.

Shortly after joining Campbell, he was named
secretary of the company, and in 1949 became its gen-
eral counsel (head of the legal staff). He was named
vice president in 1958 and senior vice president in
1966. In that position he has responsibility for co-
ordination of the company’s legal, financial, accounting,
personnel, public relations, and corporate secretarial
functions.

As president of the W&L alumni association, he
instituted the innovative system of “special conference
weekends” (see page 7 for news of the seventh) for
selected alumni, designed to provide an opportunity
to acquire first-hand information about the University
and its students—in part by encouraging alumni to
spend considerable time with students without faculty
or administrators present.

As a Trustee, Nuckols has been co-chairman of
the Business and Industry Committee of the Achieve-
ment Council, the group charged with responsibility
for carrying out the University’s decade-long develop-
ment program.

He has been president of the National Canners
Association, a director of the National Association

November 1974

 

E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr., presides at his first meeting of the
Board of Trustees after being sworn in as Rector.

of Manufacturers, and a director of the Philadelphia
Manufacturers Mutual Insurance Co. He is also a
director of the First Camden (N.J.) National Bank
and ‘Trust Co., and has held several offices in local
government.

While a Washington and Lee student, Nuckols was
vice president of the Student Body and was elected
to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and the Order of the Coif.

An Interview With the New Rector

 

Nuckols says of the task ahead:
‘So many things to be done’

 

W&L: How do you feel about being elected Rector of
the Board of Trustees?

NUCKOLS: My first reaction to my election as Rector
was to wish with all my heart that it were not necessary
for Washington and Lee to elect a new Rector. Ross
Malone was an outstanding man. He was a close friend
of mine. He had been Rector less than a year at the
time of his death. It was a great tragedy for Washing-
ton and Lee to lose his ability at this particular time.
The ideal thing would have been for him to have con-
tinued as Rector. Since that could not be, I have to
say without question that being elected rector is one of
the greatest honors that has ever been paid to me—
one certainly not expected. It also carries with it tre-
mendous challenges and opportunities. In the few weeks
that I have been in the assignment I have been doubly
impressed by the magnitude of both the challenges and
the opportunities. There are so many things to be
done.

Wk&L: Would you care to discuss some of the challenges
that you feel you face in this job and that the Univer-
sity faces?

NUCKOLS: The challenge is, I think, pretty obvious.
Private education generally is facing one of the most
critical periods in its history, perhaps the most critical.
There are many people who say that private schools
may not be able to continue to exist and meet the
competition of the large state universities, the federally
and state subsidized schools. I personally believe there
is an important place for private independent colleges
and that they can exist. But it is going to take a lot of
work on the part of alumni and all of the people as-
sociated with the University if we are to keep it
strong.

W&L: Do you feel that this challenge places Washing-
ton and Lee under a heavy responsibility to maintain its
special position in education?

NUCKOLS: Very definitely, because small independent
colleges—maybe ‘‘small’’ isn’t the word because this

would apply to the larger private colleges, too—have
to justify their existence if they are to get the support
they must have from foundations, alumni, and others
—or in some instances from churches. They have a very
definite responsibility to offer something in the edu-
cational field that just isn’t available in the public or
state-supported universities. Washington and Lee has
been doing that in a very unique way throughout its
existence. We must preserve that uniqueness. I don’t
mean to suggest that there is any question about our
surviving because we are going to survive. There is no
doubt about that at all. But we do face a challenge in
order to continue the University as we have known in
the past.

W&L: You are the first alumni-nominated Trustee as
well as a former president of the Alumni Association.
Does this situation give you a certain perspective con-
cerning the role of alumni in the governance and fi-
nancial support of the University?

NUCKOLS: The alumni are playing an increasingly
important role. Certainly in the financial area, the
Alumni Fund has grown substantially in the last 10
years. Our goal this year is $470,000. Ten years ago we
raised $175,500. It has nearly doubled in seven years.
And, of course, in the capital campaign—where we have
raised something like $24,000,000 to date—much of this
has come, if not from alumni, through alumni efforts.
So the importance of the alumni can’t be underestimat-
ed in any way. The Alumni Board is playing an in-
creasingly important role in the general administration
of the University’s affairs. They are making a very real
contribution and will increasingly do so.

WkL: In a recent interview with the Ring-tum Phi
you were asked to comment on coeducation. Your re-
sponse was that in your opinion a considerable majority
of Trustees would prefer that Washington and Lee not
go coeducational, but, of course, that options had to
be kept open. Would you discuss the factors that might
force the school to change tts mind?

Wel

“It is going to take a lot of work on

the part of alumni and all of the people
associated with the University

if we are to keep it strong.”’

 

 

 

NUCKOLS: In the answer to the Ring-tum Phi I listed
a number of the questions that would have to be con-
sidered in any study. One, of course, is the effect that co-
education or the lack of it has on applications for ad-
missions and on the number of applicants accepted who
actually enroll and come to Washington and Lee. Is
coeducation a factor in our ability to compete with co-
educational state institutions that offer much lower
tuition? You have to consider what the effect would be
upon Washington and Lee in other ways such as the
type of courses that you would have to offer. Would it
affect your curriculum in a material fashion? What ef-
fect would it have upon the physical facilities you would
need? What would be the financial effect? All of these
are questions that would have to be probed. But the
really basic question is what effect would coeducation
have upon Washington and Lee as an institution in
terms of the quality of education and the character
development opportunities it can offer? These are all,
I suppose, highly debatable questions or subjects.

W&L: Is the decision imminent?

NUCKOLS: No. I don’t think any decision is immi-
nent. A Trustee Committee to study coeducation was ap-
pointed simply because we believe that we have to keep
on top of this question and continually re-evaluate it.
A study was made several years ago that needs to be
updated. But at the moment I don’t think anyone on the
Board of ‘Trustees believes there is an immediate prob-
lem. The appointment of the Committee does not re-
flect any change in policy. The Board specifically made
it clear, when it appointed the Committee, that this
was not to be interpreted as any expression by the
Board of ‘Trustees pro or con.

W&L: An announcement that followed the Board of
Trustees meeting said that a report would be made
within a year’s time. Is that going to be a determination
of the question?

NUCKOLS: No. In the first place I am not sure when
we will get the final report. I would hope that it would

be at the May meeting in 1975, but I am not at all posi-
tive it will be ready by then. But even assuming it is,
that doesn’t mean there is going to be any action taken
or any decision made at that time. The Committee’s ef-
fort will be simply a fact-finding one, although if the
committee wishes to make a recommendation, it is, of
course, free to do so.

W&L: You mentioned before that we have achieved
two-thirds of the 1976 development goal, and we have
two years left to receive the other one-third. . . .

NUCKOLS: It all depends on what time in 1976 we
would like to see this completed. I don’t know what the
official time table is, but I hope it isn’t too late in ’76.

W&L: Certainly by the time people read this magazine
it will be less than two years. Do you feel comfortable
having another $12 million to go? Do you think we are
going to do it? .

NUCKOLS: We have to do it, and we will do it in
one way or another. I don’t think it is going to be easy,
but it can be done. This is one of the big challenges
that we face. 36 by 76 [$36 million by 1976] has to be a
slogan or watchword to which we give a great deal of
attention in the next two years.

W&L: To adapt another Ring-tum Phi question, what
is your role in your function as Rector in achieving
this goal? :

NUCKOLS: Well, as I said in the answer to the Ring-
tum Phi, there is an organization in existence with a
commmittee of the Trustees headed by John Stemmons.
There is also an Achievement Council which involves
Trustees, the Alumni Board, and other people who
have been asked to serve on the Council. This is all
highly organized and functioning. At the same time
there is a Current Support Committee under Sydney
Lewis that works on the Lee Associates program and
the alumni-giving campaign. So the role of Rector is
simply one of follow-up and being sure that the
things are happening that ought to be happening, and

 

November 1974

‘To the extent I have additional
time and energy I don’t know of

any place I would rather spend them
than on Washington and Lee.”’

 

if they aren’t, to see what can be done to make them
happen. This is the role that Bob Huntley plays in the
administration of the University or that any corporate
executive plays in his company’s operations.

W&L: What is your personal assessment of the strengths
of Washington and Lee?

NUCKOLS: That is a very large question because there
are so many strengths. One of the best ways of answering
it would be to talk about what W&L has meant to me.
I suppose the first thing you start with is the fact that
it offers an excellent education. Its educational stand-
ards are probably higher today than they were when I
was in school. In fact, I am sure they are. So we are
very strong in terms of offering a superior educational
opportunity. This is only a small part of Washington
and Lee’s strength. The Honor System and the part
that it plays in developing traits of character in young
people is extremely important. Washington and Lee also
imparts character traits in other ways in terms of experi-
ence in being part of a community and adhering to
certain standards of conduct or community rules. It
probably does this to a better degree than many other
institutions do. Why, I am not sure I know. It has some-
thing to do with the traditions and the nature of the
place. It makes a rather indeliable imprint on most of
the people who go there. I am sure you know what I
am talking about, but it is very difficult to define.

WkL: With your heavy professional responsibilities,
you are not exactly groping desperately for things to
occupy your time. Why would you have accepted the
trusteeship to begin with? Why would you become so
involved in University activities and accept this latest
imposition on your time?

NUCKOLS: It has to be because I have a very high
regard for Washington and Lee. It means a great deal to
me. I really have a feeling of debt or responsibility to
the University because I think it had a major impact—
for the good—on my life and career. This is a feeling
shared by all members of the Board of Trustees. I don’t

believe there is any exception. They all put Washington
and Lee at the very high end of their personal priorities
of things they want to support and to which they are
willing to devote time. It is certainly true in my Case.
I have rather heavy job demands I have to meet, but to
the extent I have additional time and energy I don’t
know any place I would rather spend them than on
Washington and Lee. It is that important to me.

WkL: In general would you say that all Washington
and Lee alumni owe it a debi?

NUCKOLS: I don’t know that I could make any gen-
eral statement to that effect. I am sure there are some
alumni who may not feel that way. I would hope and
believe that the majority of alumni feel they owe some-
thing to Washington and Lee—if not financially then
certainly in the sense that they carried away from Wash-
ington and Lee something that has been a help to them
in their later life—maybe nothing more than just a re-
collection of four very happy years.

W&L: You’re an alumnus and have been president of
the Alumni Board of Directors, and now you are Rec-
tor of the Board. If there is such a thing as an ideal
alumnus of Washington and Lee, how would you de-
scribe that alumnus?

NUCKOLS: I don’t think that you can generalize on
that. There are so many different kinds and different
types of alumni, and we want it that way. We don’t want
to have a mold and fit everybody into a mold. The great
strength of Washington and Lee is in developing or per-
mitting people to develop their own individual char-
acter traits and their own abilities to the highest degree
that they can. That being the case, we have many differ-
ent kinds of alumni, and that is good.

W&L: Do you feel that at this point in Washington and
Lee’s history when it is facing these great financial
needs, particularly for capital improvements, that alum-
nt should take a keener interest in the affairs of the
school?

WeL

 

 

NUCKOLS: One of the major jobs that the University
administration, the Trustees, the Alumni Board, and
everybody else has is to bring about a closer association
and participation by the alumni with the University.
I am sure you have heard Bob Huntley mention the
research work that was done that indicated that most
alumni think Washington and Lee is a wealthy school
and doesn’t need much in the way of financial help. I
have encountered that among some of the alumni with
whom I have talked. They don’t see any need to be
very active in this area. Somehow we have to develop
on the part of all our alumni, or a very high percent, the
idea that the support of the University has to be a con-
tinuing thing throughout their lives and that they must
continually be working in this direction. Some universi-
ties have developed this to a very high degree, and some-
how we have got to instill this into our alumni and
get a much closer continuing support than we now
have. I am not belittling what we’ve done because I
think we have made great strides, but there is a tre-
mendous opportunity to do more in this area.

Wk&L: Is there something on your mind that you would
like to say that we haven’t asked a question about yet?
NUCKOLS: I think you have covered most of the areas
that I have had an opportunity to think about and be
associated with in the few weeks that I have been in this
assignment. I am still trying in my own mind to define
just what the role and the responsibility of the Rector
are and how far they go. I do get the impression that it
can be a very large and important assignment.

Wk&L: When your term as Rector expires what would
you like to be able to point to as your accomplishments
during your tenure in office?

NUCKOLS: The primary goal has to be to keep Wash-
ington and Lee the outstanding, strong, private educa-
tional institution that it is today and to build on its
present strengths in every way that we possibly can.
Achieving this goal obviously means, among other
things, keeping our Development Campaign on or ahead

of its target dates and maintaining a strong faculty, ad-
ministration, and student body. It also means building
a closer relationship between the University and _ its
alumni so the alumni have a better recognition of the
University’s problems and play a greater role in their
solution.

W&L: Would you care to reminisce about your years
on campus? Is there any episode or incident that you
remember fondly?

NUCKOLS: I could probably reminisce for a very
long time—but I wouldn’t want to get into some of the
episodes. ‘They were six very happy years, and I made
friendships and associations that I value very highly.
There are people that I haven’t seen since I left Wash-
ington and Lee of whom I still have fond recollections.

W&L: You must+have been part of the Dean Light
circle, one of his students?

NUCKOLS: Charlie Light was a close friend actually.
He taught me when I was in law school, and he was
also responsible for getting me my first job when I
got out of law school and went to work for a Washing-
ton, D.C., law firm. Charlie had worked with the firm
and knew many of the partners. He was a native of
Washington. He gave me the introduction to the law
firm that led to my first job there.

W&L: What did you major in?

NUCKOLS: I started out wanting to be an engineer
and when I graduated from high school planned to go
to MIT. My father thought I was too young to go to
such a big school in a large city like Boston and that it
would be better to go to a smaller school and take an
undergraduate course and then. study engineering. So I
ended up at Washington and Lee and enrolled my
freshman year in what I would regard as a pre-engi-
neering course. Washington and Lee then had an en-
gineering school. Then I pledged ATO, and the frater-

nity said you should get into some extra-curricular acti-

vities, so why don’t you work on the Ring-tum Phi, for

 

November 1974

 

‘IT wish every alumnus could have the
Opportunity to visit Washington and
Lee, meet with school officials, and
see the University as it is today.”

 

example. Working on the Ring-tum Phi proved very in-
teresting and I thought this has to be the greatest career
opportunity in the world—I want to be a journalist. So
my second year I switched to the journalism school with
the idea of taking that as my major. This led to a
course in economics and I became completely intrigu-
ed with the subject. So the third year I switched to the
School of Commerce and Business Administration, where
I took a course in business law, and my fourth year I
ended up in law school. I guess there was no place left
to go so I finished in law. My academic major was in
economics.

W&L: Where did you live when you were in Lexing-
ton?

NUCKOLS: I lived at the ATO House during under-
graduate years and then in my fifth year I roomed at
Charlie Davidson’s. Charlie was a native of Lexington,
and I roomed at his home for a year. Actually we were
in the same law class. After graduation he also got a job
in Washington and we roomed together in Washington
when I first went there. Later he was a lawyer and
Commonwealth’s Attorney in Lexington and died two
or three years ago. My final year, with two other senior
law students, I rented an apartment in Dr. Shannon’s
home. The apartment was the rooms now occupied by
Farris Hotchkiss in the Development Office.

W&L: What do you do for relaxation? Do you have
hobbies?

NUCKOLS: Indeed. The only problem is that I don't
have enough time to engage in them. My wife and I are
ardent skiers, and we spend as much time during the
season as we can in skiing. We take all of our vacation in
the winter time. We are going from the Board of Trus-
tees meeting in San Antonio to Aspen and Sun Valley
and get a little skiing in then. We have a second home
in Vermont in ski country, where we spend weekends
during the winter and in the summer as well. When I
retire from Campbell Soup Company we will move
there and make that our home. Unfortunately, they are

going to throw me out of Campbell Soup in a couple of
years. We also play tennis. My wife and I both enjoy
tennis. I have acquired some interest—but haven’t had
the chance to develop it as much as I would like—in
woodworking and cabinetmaking, and hope to be able
to spend more time on that when enforced retirement
comes.

W&L: You certainly don’t look anywhere close to re-
tiring. You say at the end of two or three years?
NUCKOLS: I have to retire at the end of 1976. We have
a mandatory retirement at age 65.

W&L: By the way, what does Campbell Soup think of
Andy Warhol?

NUCKOLS: We don’t think about him very much at
all. He blazed across our path a few years ago, and I
suppose he made his original reputation by painting a
picture that was nothing but Campbell Soup cans. He
did this completely on his own. It was not a promotional
idea of ours, and we had nothing to do with it at all.

W&L: Is there any particular message that you would
like to send to our alumni?

NUCKOLS: I wish every alumnus could have the op-
portunity to visit Washington and Lee’s campus, meet
with the school officials, and see the University as it is
today. In my opinion Washington and Lee has never
been stronger. It has an outstanding faculty, a strong,
highly qualified administration, and an excellent student
body. The quality of education offered has never been
better. Equally important, the Honor System remains
strong and viable. I would also like for each alumnus to
recognize that as an individual he will have to play an
increasing role in the University’s support if we are to
maintain its current strength. Washington and Lee is
not a wealthy institution, and if it is to counter the ris-
ing costs that inflation brings it must rely more and
more upon annual alumni contributions. The alumni
must understand the real urgency of the University’s
needs for both capital and annual support.

 

WeL

Special Alumni Conference

 

Man-on-the-campus interviews
sample delegates reaction

A selected group of more than
40 alumni, friends of the University,
and their wives were on campus,
Nov. 14-16, for the Seventh Annual
Special Aumni Conference. For three
days in small-group sessions, the
delegates took a frist-hand, in-depth
look at the University’s strengths
and needs—and the character of
its contemporary students, faculty,
and administration.

The frank, give-and-take sessions
dealt with curriculum and academic
affairs, student life, finances, and
admissions and student recruitment.
About 60 students participated in
the conference as members of panels
and in informal discussion groups,
including about 16 student govern-
ment officers. Students, faculty
members, and administrators were
discussion leaders during the formal
sessions. And again there was the
the candid exchange between alumni
and students during a post-luncheon
session at which no University
officials were present.

The consensus at the end was
that the conference had again ac-
complished its purpose: to foster
better understanding and two-way
communication between the on-
campus WeL community and the
alumni at large.

In on-the-spot interviews, several
delegates were asked for their im-
pressions of the conference. Excerpts
from their remarks follow:

November 1974

 

FLEMING KEEFE, ’61
Atlanta, Ga.

It has been a very gratifying
experience for me to hear the prob-
lems of the University and to com-
municate with other alumni. I have

been very pleased with what I have
seen on campus, and I think other
alumni have also. I feel that every-
one who has the opportunity
should certainly come to these con-
ferences. The only way, I think, that
the University can continue to
exist as a small private college is to
get more and better support from its
alumni. Otherwise, we are going
to have to turn to other means of
continuing the University as we
now know it.

 

‘I’. HALLER JACKSON, JR., ’48L
Shreveport, La.

The thing that I have enjoyed
most is seeing the students. It has
been great. If the University con-
tinues with the type of students it
has now I think it will continue
its leadership in liberal arts educa-
tion in the country. I honestly be-
lieve that. One thing that has im-
pressed me on this visit—I have
been coming back yearly for several
years—is that this is the first time
I have seen the students speaking to
strangers as they used to, and this has
been a really pleasant surprise to
me.

Special Conference Reactions

 

WILLIAM N. CLEMENTs, II, ’50
Baltimore, Md.

After participating in the confer-
ence, I figure the future of Wash-
ington and Lee is as strong as ever.
It has some problems just as any
small college does with regard to
funding and financing. But I still
think, as I did when I was here, that
W&L is a unique spot and will al-
ways draw the proper kind of stu-
dent. I only wish that more alumni
would come back for something like
this. What impressed me most
about the conference was to learn
that the quality of the faculty is
as high as ever and so is the quality
of the boy that is here—and that is
the whole story of the University.

C. LANIER KINDER, ’69L
Roanoke, Va.

I have learned quite a bit about
the University that I didn’t learn
here at law school. Most of the
things I learned pleased me. I was
particularly interested in the finan-
cial situation of the University. I
was here two and a half years, was
married, and older than most of the
other law students. So we didn’t get
involved in undergraduate matters.
Now I feel I know the whole pro-
gram. I think it would be most
helpful if more and more alumni
could come to conferences of this
kind. The leadership of the Uni-
versity is good. President Huntley
became president while I was here.
I think the Trustees made the best
choice then, and this conference
hasn’t changed my mind.

 

 

RoBERT C. Dyer, ’34
Chicago, Ill.

I have enjoyed the conference
thoroughly. I believe that one of
the problems of Washington and Lee
and its alumni is that we are
scattered so far across the country.
Conferences such as this one is a
wonderful opportunity for us to visit
the University and meet our class-
mates.

WeL

 

Ear T. JONEs, 30
Raleigh, N. C.

What impressed me an awful lot
was the hour and 15 minutes we
spent with the athletic staff. They
explained how much an athlete
and athletics mean to a school. ‘Too
many of us think of going to school
as just studying in the classroom.
But you have to have sports. ‘he
athletic directors here are of the
opinion—and I agree—that the boys
who participate in athletics contri-
bute a whole lot to the University.
So you can’t play down athletics.
And I am glad to see that the Honor
System, which impressed me when
I was in school, is holding on like
it is. Naturally, you don’t see the
boys dressing now as we did, but they
look a whole lot better than at
other schools. You don’t see anyone
here that you wouldn't think were
students.

November 1974

JAMEs J. WINN, Jr., ’70L
Baltimore, Md.

The conference has been very
helpful. It reinforced the feeling
that I have always had. I think
that people who have come to this
school, have gone away, and haven't
continued their relationship with
the school are really losing something
that they should perhaps try to get
back into. It does help to come back
and kind of renew yourself. It is
like coming back, plugging into the
wall, and recharging your batteries
in a couple of days. I have really
had a good time here. It has given
us some insight into the changes that
have taken place in the school since
I graduated and moved away from
the area.

WiLuiAM J. LepBetTer, ’50L
Chagrin Falls, Ohio

The conference has been good in
several ways. It changed my opinion
about a lot of things. First, 1 am more
impressed with the students, and
second, I know the school hasn't
gone to pot as I sometimes thought
it might have. I feel very good
about the future of Washington
and Lee. I think having the confer-
ence in small groups is very effec-
tive. You don’t want a mass audience
in this kind of conference. But as
many people as possible should be
exposed to this program.

Special Conference Reactions

 

CHARLES A. TUTWILER, ’24L
Welch, W. Va.

For one thing, the conference
has renewed my faith in the Uni-
versity. I never completely lost faith
in it, but when I was back here a
few years ago, there was some ques-
tion about the Honor System—
whether or not it was going to be
in being. We have discussed that at
great length, and I think from what
I can understand that it is probably
stronger now than it has been for
some years. Financially, we seem to
be in fairly good shape. The faculty
is strong. The alumni are stronger
than ever. It has been a most reward-
ing experience. I feel wonderfully
well about the future of Washington
and Lee.

10

GEORGE W. Harrison, ’36
Henderson, N. C.

The conference has been great.
It is my first, and not knowing
exactly what the mission was before
I came, I think I realize now. I
think it has equipped me to do a
better job of service for the Uni-
versity. I feel good about the future
of the University. Of course, being an
old alumnus, I still can’t accustom
myself to the way the students dress
and attend classes. We used to have
to wear coats and ties, and if we
didn’t, they had a little committee
that took care of that. But somewhere
or another that has broken down.
I would like to see it as General
Lee would like to see it.

 

RoBeErt G. (Bo) Brooxsy, ’72
Greensboro, N. C.

This conference, in my Case,
has been particularly important. It
has shown me what the student body
is really like now and the changes—
although they have not been too
significant since I have been out.

I think I have learned that the stu-
dent today is a bit more mature
than perhaps even as recently as five
or six years ago. It is good to see
that they are here primarily for their
thirst for knowledge and to further
their education. More freedom has
been granted students, allowing
them to make decisions that we had
made for us. This carries with it
more responsibility, but these stu-
dents seem to be the kind that

can handle this responsibility. I am
very impressed with that. I think
they are a very mature bunch,
particularly the freshmen.

WeL

 

RosBert W. HILTON, JR., '38
Cincinnati, Ohio

I am impressed by the honesty
of the University and the tremen-
dous detail in which they have
worked up statistics about almost
every aspect of University life, the
financial problems of the University
and the University’s plans for the
future. I think the two big needs
of the University are first-class stu-
dents—and alumni can be very help-
ful in attracting that kind of stu-
dent—and, of course, the second
great need is financial help in all
areas—financial help to needy stu-
dents and financial help to build the
new library center which is a tre-
mendous need in every department
of the University as a teaching tool.
I think this is a good place to in-
vest your charity dollars.

November 1974

DANIEL T. BALFouR, *63
Richmond, Va.

I was particularly impressed by
the candidness of the administration
and the faculty. I was impressed
by what I heard about the financial
needs of the University. I think
most alumni tend to think the Uni-
versity is well-heeled, and they think
that a five- or ten-dollar contribution
is enough to keep it essentially as
it always was in the past. It seems
to me the University now really
needs to dig deep and get financial
support in a big way for the library,
other capital improvements, and also
the endowment. When you look
at the endowments of other private
institutions, you see how far
behind we are.

CONFERENCE DELEGATES
William H. Abeloff, 57, Richmond, Va;
John B. Adams, Jr., ’69L, The Plains, Va.
John R. Alford, 57, Lynchburg, Va.
Henry Angel, 66L, Atlanta, Ga.

Garry Apgar, 67, Roanoke, Va.

W. D. Bain, Jr., “49L, Spartanburg, S. C.
Daniel T. Balfour, 63, Richmond, Va.
Charles H. Blake, ’32, New York, N. Y.

Dr. A. Compton Broders, Jr., '38,
Temple, Texas

Robert G. Brookby, ’72, Greensboro, N. C.
W. J. Brooks, Jr., °33, Dallas, Texas
Russell G. Browning, 42, Newark, N. J.
John F. Carrere, Jr., 69, New Orleans, La.
William N. Clements, II, 50, Baltimore, Md.
Samuel C. Dudley, ’58, Richmond, Va.
Robert C. Dyer, 34, Chicago, III.

Buddy Eanes, ’54, Martinsville, Va.

Joseph F. Ellis, 43, Clarksdale, Miss.
George H. Fralin, Jr., 57, Lynchburg, Va.
John P. French, ’50, Scottsdale, Ariz.
George W. Harrison, ’36, Henderson, N. C.
Robert W. Hilton, Jr., ’38, Cincinnati, Ohio
John B. Howard, ’57, Ruxton, Md.

Dr. William D. Hoyt, ’32, Rockport, Mass.
T. Haller Jackson, Jr., ’48L, Shreveport, La.
Archie Jenkins, ’58, Princeton, N. J.

Earl T. Jones, °30, Raleigh, N. C.

Fleming Keefe, ’61, Atlanta, Ga.

C. Lanier Kinder, Jr., 69L, Roanoke, Va.
Jody S. Kline, ’68, Rockville, Md.

Rupert N. Latture, 15, Lexington, Va.

William J. Ledbetter, ’50L,
Chargin Falls, Ohio

Charles J. Longacre, ’33, Summit, N. J.

G. Otis Mead, III, Lexington, Va.

Mosby G. Perrow, II, ’*70L, Lynchburg, Va.
Gen. George R. E. Shell, Lexington, Va.

S. Maynard Turk, °52L, Wilmington, Del.
Charles A. Tutwiler, ’24L, Welch, W. Va.
Robert C. Vaughan, ’66, Charlottesville, Va.
James J. Winn, Jr., "70L, Baltimore, Md.
Stuard A. Wurzburger, ’28, Lexington, Va.

11

by Charles R. McDowell, Jr., ’48

souron

g
=
o
ec
»

S,

 

776-491

At Mount Vernon, ‘the drinks
are in the dependency yonder’

Charley McDowell, WeL’s humor-
ist-at-large and a 1948 graduate who
practically grew up on campus, wrote
the following column after attending
the “Bicentennial Homecoming”
event at Mount Vernon on Oct. 11.
The occasion honored members of
the University Board of Trustees and
the Robert E. Lee Associates, a group
of WeL’s most generous supporters.
The event marked the return to
Mount Vernon of a number of his-
toric portraits now owned by the
University which hung in the man-
sion two centuries ago when Wash-
ington lived there. The Mount Ver-
non Ladies’ Association was host at
a reception for the WeL people, and
the WeL Trustees in turn were hosts
at a formal banquet for the Lee As-
sociates and officers of the Mount
Vernon Association. The portrait
“homecoming” was another event in
the University program to mark the
nation’s Bicentennial. Charley’s piece
is reprinted here with permission of
the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

It is about the best house in the
neighborhood for a party, especially
on a nice evening when you can
wander outdoors. It has a columned
piazza across the whole front of it,
and a really big yard, and a high view
of the river in the twilight. For those
of you who are not familiar with our
neighborhood of Fairfax County, the
house is Mount Vernon.

We who live in the developments
down the road often take guests to
see it, or we go out of our way to
drive past it very casually to establish
the idea that this is not just any old
raw suburb. Although we feel very
close to Mount Vernon, we are not in-

12

vited over there socially a lot or any-
thing like that.

So Anne and I were pleased to
be invited to drop over Friday night
for drinks and dinner. The invitation
came from the Mount Vernon Ladies’
Association and the Board of Trus-
tees of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. ‘The occasion was the “Bi-
centennial Homecoming” of some
Washington-Custis-Lee family _ por-
traits that hung in Mount Vernon
when George Washington lived there
and now belong to W&L.

W&L got hold of the portraits in
1897 as a gift from George Washing-
ton Custis Lee, who was Robert E.
Lee’s son and successor as president
of the college. Gen. Lee’s wife and
George Washington Custis Lee's
mother, Mary Randolph Custis Lee,
was, approximately, Martha Washing-
ton’s great-granddaughter.

When you go out to dinner at an
old house in Virginia, it is well to get
the family situation straight in your
head, and I tried, but I am still not
absolutely certain there should not
be another “great” on that grand-
daughter.

As we approached the house on a
path lighted by lanterns, a man from
W&L informed us “the drinks are in
the dependency yonder.”

He obviously was carried away
with the mood of it all. At home he
would have said the drinks were in
the kitchen. The dependency was a
kitchen. Beyond the kitchen a cou-
ple of hundred people, maybe more,
all in formal dress, were strolling on
the lawn, talking on the piazza and
exploring the mansion. Most of the
men were W&L alumni.

These events of our country’s Bi-

centennial do indeed encourage a
sense of the continuity of life. W&L’s
president, Robert E. R. Huntley, was
receiving guests in George Washing-
ton’s house. I was in college with
Huntley; he rowed on the crew with
Roger Mudd. And Mudd was in
George Washington’s house too; his
colleague, Walter Cronkite, had tak-
en over the “Walter Cronkite Show”
for the evening.

Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., of the
Supreme Court of the United States
was shaking hands in the main hall
of the house with the newest justice
of the Supreme Court of Virginia, A.
Christian Compton. I remember
when I lived in The Hollow on the
campus in Lexington and Lewis
Powell was a law student renting a
room a few doors away, and when
Chris Compton rode in the second-
team car on basketball trips before he
was promoted to the first-team car
and thence inexorably to the Su-
preme Court.

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., the newly
retired president of the University of
Virginia, was on the piazza with Mrs.
Shannon (who mentioned that she
had had dinner at Monticello earlier
in the week and how was that for the
Bicentennial high life?). I remember
when Edgar Shannon, a W&L profes-
sor’s son, was living on the campus
in a house where the Robert E. Lees
had lived when they had these Wash-
ington-Custis-Lee portraits and where
everyone who ever lived rooted
against the Wahoos.

Three former lacrosse players from
Baltimore were in the mansion in-
tently studying one of the paintings.
Two of the lacrosse players remem-
bered the painting well from W&L

WeL

oe
as

a
Ei

eth

At Aes
at ee!
ey ~

or

son
he

ee a Ss)
a

cane : a aoe
OS - 7

7

a
3s

-

 

 

 

ABOVE LEFT: President and Mrs.

Huntley welcome Supreme Court Justice
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., a Trustee. ABOVE
RIGHT: The annual black-tie dinner

in honor of the Robert E. Lee Associates
had an eighteenth century flavor; President
Huntley and Mrs. Cooke are in foreground.
BELOW LEFT: At the dinner a Dis-
tinguished Alumnus Award was presented
to U.S. Sen. William E. Brock, III,

(R. Tenn), by President Huntley and
Everett C. Tucker of Little Rock,
president of the Alumni Association;
Huntley uses candlelight in true eighteenth
century fashion to read the citation.
BELOW CENTER: W. Hayne Hipp, ’62,
chairman of the Robert E. Lee Associates,
welcomes the guests. BELOW RIGHT:

After the dinner a portrait of the late Mrs.

Jessie Ball duPont, a Trustee and a major
benefactor of W&L, was unveiled by

her brother, Edward Ball of Jacksonville,
Fla.; the portrait now hangs in the

foyer of Washington Hall.

14

 

a critic writes that John Wollaston,
who painted the mother and chil-
dren, “had no gift for characteriza-
tion and all the faces he painted are
exactly alike.” Anyhow, most of the
paintings were attractive and all were
fascinating historically. (There are 17
Washington-Custis-Lee portraits in
the college collection, eight of them
having hung in Mount Vernon two
centuries ago. All are going on a na-
tional tour after a while.)

Dinner was served not in the man-
sion itself, of course, but in a con-
temporary building a short distance
away. At our table, an alumnus from
another state asked Edgar Shannon,
whom he correctly identified as an-
other W&L man, where he was living.

oe ee eee

eaes

Spree
eS 2a ie i

wy _ “cr
SAT ASES Se be ee aE oe eS

 

Shannon said Charlottesville, and the
alumnus wondered what in the world
he had found to do there. Shannon
finally confessed that, well, he had
been president of the University of
Virginia. The alumnus was shocked
but very pleasant about it—and lin-
geringly skeptical.

Shannon mentioned that he had
recently returned to faculty status at
the University of Virginia, but mer-
cifully he did not mention that he
had become a member of the W&L
Board of Trustees. It would have
been too confusing for the visitor. In
Virginia, we understand that things
get gloriously mixed up, like the
Washingtons, the Custises, and the
Lees.

WeL

 

 

 

 

$300,000 Lilly Foundation Grant

 

New interdisciplinary programs set

in ethics, corporate responsibility

TI'wo highly innovative interdepart-
mental programs—one in_ professional
ethics and another in the relationship
between the modern corporation and
society—are being inaugurated this year
at Washington and Lee under a $300,000
grant from the Lilly Foundation of In-
dianapolis.

The program in ethics, being directed
by Dr. Louis W. Hodges, professor of
religion, focuses on the complex value
judgments which must be made by pro-
fessionals in three principal fields: medi-
cine, law and journalism.

The corporation-in-society program
will be directed by Dr. Charles F. Phil-
lips, Jr., professor of economics, and
will examine the responsibilities of the
corporation toward so-called “external”
segments of society such as consumers,
local communities, labor, suppliers and
charitable organizations—as well as its
obligations to its stockholders.

Both programs will involve classes and
seminars involving teachers and students
from a wide range of academic disci-
plines, and both will also bring other
scholars, professionals and executives to
the W&L campus as participants.

ETHICS

The ethics program is designed to
expose pre-professional undergraduates
to the realities of ethical choices they
will face in fields characterized today by
rapid change both in technology and in
values—and even in principles. The pro-
gram grew, according to Dr. Hodges,
from the University’s recognition of an
increasing need for specific, systematic
attention to questions of human value as
they pertain to professional practice —
the kinds of critical questions which
physicians, lawyers and journalists are
now being required to face every day,
many of which have not been raised until
very recently and on which there is fre-
quently no profession-wide consensus of
judgment.

16

The programs will also provide prac-
titioners in each field the opportunity—
the leisure and the resources—to reflect
more systematically on ethical questions
in their professions than they custo-
marily have on a day-to-day basis.

In medicine, for instance, principal
considerations will be the impact of —
and the opportunities provided by —
today’s unprecedented degree of techni-
cal, legal and social change. How should
we decide who may live, when not every-
one can? Who should determine the
manner in which we allocate scarce medi-
cal resources? In the day of so-called
“heroic” mechanical methods of sustain-
ing certain vital functions artificially,
how can we define death? How can we
reconcile—or can we at all? — the Hip-
pocratic injunctions to prolong life on
the one hand and to relieve suffering on
the other?

The ethics program in law will ex-
amine many of the never-resolved, an-
cient questions as well as the implica-
tions of relatively recent developments
in the legal profession itself and in so-
ciety as they apply to the practice of law.
Questions regarding the very definition
of justice are as pointed as ever, and
clear or universally accepted answers are
at least as elusive as they have been
through history. The principle against
self-incrimination, for instance, distinc-
tive in Anglo-Saxon law, demands con-
tinual re-examination. So do the limits
and advantages of the adversary system—
as they apply to no-fault insurance, to
name one example. Questions concerning
the very nature of the profession itself
arise in concrete form almost constantly.
Is the lawyer obliged to devote his tal-
ents to the defense of a client just as the
client would if he possessed the lawyer’s
talent — or must they function strictly as
the agent of the court in seeking to deter-
mine truth and arrive at justice?

In journalism, the ethics program will
examine questions which have been argu-

ed since the beginnings of mass com-
munications as a social institution — the
kinds of considerations which have re-
ceived unusual attention in recent years
and which seem to have been complicat-
ed by recent developments, but which in
large measure are anything but new to
journalism and journalists. There is, to
be sure, wide agreement in journalism
and in society as to the “large prin-
ciples” — that freedom of the press is a
vital principle worthy of devotion and
vigorous defense. All agree that demo-
cracy depends on information and _par-
ticipation. But in their day-to-day ap-
plication, these broad principles en-
counter a wide diversity of opinion. (One
basic question here is: Would general
agreement even be desirable?) How do
we secure “the people’s right to know?”
How can First Amendment protections
be preserved — and how can we judge
abuses while avoiding restrictions on
press freedom? Who is to identify what
is “news?” By what standards are porno-
graphy and obscenity to be judged to
avoid both offensiveness to society and
the abridgement of a free press? What
professional standards ought to apply to
“investigative reporting?” To disclosure
of confidential sources?

Each of the three ethics programs
will include a three-credit course, taught
by Dr. Hodges in medical ethics and by
Dr. Hodges with other W&L faculty
members in law (President Huntley, a
lawyer; Dr. S. Todd Lowry, who holds
the LL.B. degree in addition to his doc-
torate in economics; and other profes-
sors in both the School of Law and the
School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics) and journalism (Prof. R. H. Mac-
Donald, journalism department head,
who had 20 years’ experience in broad-
cast news reporting before coming to
W&L to teach in 1968).

In each program, about 10 practicing
professionals will spend four days at
W&L during the Winter Term, adding

WeL

their personal perspectives from the field
(and as an end in itself, providing them
with the chance to examine considera-
tions of ethics in the academic environ-
ment). In addition, several hundred
books and numerous journals are being
added in each field to the collections in
the University’s Cyrus McCormick Li-
brary, and two nationally prominent fig-
ures in each field will be brought to the
campus during the year for public lec-
tures. All six lectures in professional
e.nics will be printed and bound into a
single volume for distribution to inter-
ested professionals and others.

CORPORATION AND SOCIETY

The corporation-and-society program
will, first, bring together under one um-
brella representatives from all the aca-

 

demic disciplines which bear upon the
future of the corporate form of business,
nationally and internationally. This in-
terdisciplinary “task force” will examine
the major issues facing the modern cor-
poration — issues in economics, business,
politics, law, sociology and ethics.

In addition to coursework for aca-
demic credit, the corporation-in-society
program will provide an annual confer-
ence on the topic of social responsibility
of corporations, involving visiting schol-
ars and businessmen from Virginia and
elsewhere.

The program proceeds from the real-
ity that, whether desirable or not, society
has determined that the resources of a
business can no longer be held solely for
the benefit of stockholders — that cor-

November 1974

porate management has two, and only
two, options: to adapt itself to public
and governmental demands for social re-
sponsibility, or to have that responsibility
forced upon it. And as a consequence,
the traditional approach to the teaching
of corporate management, with its major
emphasis on profit maximization, is no
longer sufficient in a practical sense for
students who will later occupy leader-
ship positions in corporations.

The W&L program provides for a
comprehensive review of curricula at the
University and in other colleges, employ-
ing consultants as well, toward the es-
tablishment of the initial Washington
and Lee course for the Spring Term in
1975. As in the ethics programs, the cor-
poration-in-society program will bring
a number of visiting scholars to the cam-

pus to participate in the course, adding
their expertise to that of the W&L fac-
ulty.

Next year, the initial course will be
evaluated and, if necessary or desirable,
revised, perhaps into a two-course se-
quence. Beginning in 1976, the Spring
Term course would become the focal
point of the annual conference _in-
volving scholars (whose papers would be
published afterwards, as will be the
papers delivered by visiting lecturers in
the ethics programs).

After the experience of the first three
years, the corporation-in-society program
will be evaluated to formulate recom-
mendations about incorporating the pro-
gram as a permanent part of Washing-
ton and Lee’s curriculum.

Dr. Louis W. Hodges, director of the
ethics program, has been interested in
ethics since graduate school. During the
past five years, his interest in and study
of the ethical questions in biomedical
practice have increased, and the courses
in ethics he has taught at Washington
and Lee have included examination of
these considerations. He is co-author of
The Christian and His Decisions, and
three years ago he introduced a pioneer-
ing full-credit course at Washington
and Lee in biomedical ethics. A graduate
of Millsaps College with the B.D. and
Ph.D. degrees from Duke University, Dr.
Hodges has taught at Washington and
Lee since 1960.

Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jr., director
of the corporation-in-society program, is
a specialist in government regulation of

 

Dr. Phillips

industry, especially utilities. He is the
author of the text The Economics of
Regulation and two other textbooks as
well as more than 30 research articles,
including the widely reprinted ‘“What’s
Wrong With Profit Maximization?” He
has been a consultant to a number of
major utilities and other firms which are
subject to regulation, including the Fed-
eral Reserve System, the New York Stock
Exchange, American Telephone & Tele-
graph, and Vepco, and he speaks regul-
arly at symposia on regulation through-
out the country and testifies frequently
before state and federal regulatory
agencies. Dr. Phillips is an honors gradu-
ate of the University of New Hampshire,
earned the Ph.D. in economics from Har-
vard, and has taught at W&L since 1960.

17

de news briefs

PARENTS’ WEEKEND

O)More than 1,200 parents visited their University for the
20th annual Parents’ Weekend this fall, highlighted by a
series of provocative seminars in which parents quizzed panels
of students, faculty and administrators. Also on the agenda
were the traditional “Report to Parents” from University
officials, President and Mrs. Huntley’s reception, a football
game against Denison University, a concert in which all the
University’s musical groups participated, and the customary
fraternity receptions and other social events and informal ac-
tivities.

LAW STUDENT WINS AWARD

(jRichard F. Biribauer, a third-year law student, won the
$250 first-place award in a copyright-law competition at Wash-
ington and Lee sponsored by ASCAP, the American Society
of Composers, Authors and Publishers. Biribauer’s essay—
which is now entered in ASCAP’s national copyright-law
competition—was entitled “Goldstein v. California and the
Protection of Sound Recordings: Arming the States for Battle
with the Pirates.”

LEE CHAPEL SERVICES REVIVED

(JA student committee has re-instituted the practice of tra-
ditional Sunday morning non-denominational religious serv-
ices in Lee Chapel. Sermons were delivered during the Fall
Term by Dr. David W. Sprunt, professor of religion and
University chaplain; President Robert E. R. Huntley, and
Dean Emeritus James Graham Leyburn.

AMBITIOUS THEATRE SEASON

O7The University Theatre (the erstwhile Troubadours) em-
barked on an ambitious season this year, producing Peter
Shaffer’s Equus, the current Broadway and London stage hit
(it opened at W&L just four days after its New York premiere)
and Moliere’s Don Juan in a new translation by Britain’s
Christopher Hampton (who was a visiting professor at W&L
two years ago.) After the Christmas break, students will begin
rehearsals for Lion in Winter; other plays to be produced in
the remainder of the year are Changing Room and, in the
Spring Term, two Shakespearean dramas.

A WINNING DEBATE TEAM

CFAt the end of the Fall Term, debaters had brought home a
mid-season total of 10 trophies, including the coveted Wil-
liam Wells Chaffin Memorial Award, presented to the top
team in the three-state regional Delta Sigma Rho/Tau Kappa
Alpha tournament. The Chaffin Award honors the late Prof.
Chaffin, debate coach at Washington and Lee from 1960
until his death in an automobile accident in 1970. The 10
trophies captured so far place the 1974-75 W&L debate team
substantially ahead of its standing a year ago—when the team

18

 

DORM NAMED FOR DEAN GILLIAM

Pde 4 “$; 2S :
oe S bs —s PY a Lad

 

Ea

Dean Gilliam at a recent Commencement.

The Board of ‘Trustees has named the so-called
“new freshman dormitory” for Frank J. Gilliam, dean of
students and admissions director at the University for
more than 30 years. The dorm was completed in 1962,
the year Dean Gilliam retired as admissions director
and one year before he retired as dean of students after
a career at W&L that began in 1926.

In honoring Dean Gilliam, the Board said it is “par-
ticularly fitting” that the dorm “continues to serve that
group of students who, over many decades, were cus-
tomarily the principal beneficiaries of Dean Gilliam’s
most direct concern, his first obligation—the freshmen.”

The Board said it is unlikely “that any other man
ever associated with the University has drawn to himself
such breadth and depth of personal devotion, such in-
tense sentiments of close friendship. ... He knows, and
is known by, the great majority of Washington and
Lee alumni and their families. ... His direct influence
upon generation after generation of Washington and
Lee students has been and remains proud.” The Board
also spoke of “the wisdom of his counsel, the comfort of
his sympathetic concern, the eloquence of his expres-
sion, and the deep-abiding warmth of his personality.”

 

 

 

was on its way to earning a total of 17 in its best season in
recent years.

LIBRARY AID FROM THE FAR EAST

FThe Japan Foundation of Toyko has made a $3,600 grant
to Washington and Lee for the purchase of library materials
during the current year. W&L is one of just 10 American uni-
versities and 50 in the world to have received such grants.

COEDUCATION STUDY COMMITTEE

CjBoard Rector Marshall Nuckols has named a four-man
committee of Trustees—Frank C. Brooks of Baltimore, chair-
man, and members Joseph T. Lykes of New Orleans, H. Gor-
don Leggett, Jr. of Lynchburg and Dr. Edgar F. Shannon,
Jr. of Charlottesville—to continue the Board’s ongoing investi-

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

examining structural change and current problems facing
public utilities, sponsored by the Graduate School of Busi-
ness of Indiana University.

(jJRobert Stewart, professor of music, rcceived a “Special
Recognition” Award for his work at the First International
Brass Symposium, sponsored by the Institute for Advanced
Musical Studies in Montreaux, Switzerland. Stewart received
the award on the basis of nine of his compositions for brass
alone and for brass with percussion.

HOYT COLLECTION OF LEXINGTON PHOTOS

DKA collection of old photographs of Lexington taken by Dr.
William D. Hoyt, a 1932 Washington and Lee graduate who
now lives in Rockport, Mass., was on display in W&L’s duPont
Gallery during October. Dr. Hoyt, who taught history and
political science at Loyola College and Catholic University,
began taking photos in the 1920s with a Kodak folding
camera.

 

Tom Hudgins presents marathon proceeds of more than
$1,000 to Rev. John Behen, chairman of Rockbridge Area
Relief Association. Money will be used to help indigent local
families during the holiday season when no other assistance is
available. At right is Jeryl Davis, journalism instructor and
manager of WLUR-FM.

WLUR-FM MARATHON RAISED $1,000 FOR CHARITY
(JA 30-hour radio marathon on Washington and Lee’s cam-
pus station, WLUR-FM, brought in more than $1,000 for the
Rockbridge Area Relief Association over the Thanksgiving
holiday. WLUR-FM announcer Thomas Hudgins, a junior
from Virginia Beach, stayed on the air the entire time, and
28 Lexington area businesses pledged $1 to the private chari-
table association for each hour. In addition, several hundred
dollars were contributed by listeners during Hudgins’ “holi-
day marathon.”

ALUMNUS HONORED IN SEATTLE

CStephen F. Chadwick, Sr., of Seattle, Wash., who received
his law degree from Washington and Lee in 1914, was honor-
ed on Nov. 20 on the occasion of his 80th birthday in Seattle.
The event was a testimonial dinner titled “The First 80
Years” that took note of Chadwick’s many years of service to
God and man. About 350 Seattle citizens attended the dinner,
which was sponsored by the American Cancer Society,
American Legion, Ancient Order of United Workmen, Epiph-
any Episcopal Church, Seattle Chamber of Commerce, Seattle
Historical Society, Seattle/King County Bar Association,

20

Rainier Club, and the officers and board of Rainier Brewing |
Co. Chadwick is a former national commander of the Ameri-
can Legion and is believed to be one of the few W&L gradu-
ates ever to have a V.M.I. parade staged in his honor. The
citation in the program recognized him “for his sympathy as
a friend, his determination as a leader and his impressive
scope of activities and interest as a citizen. Each of your
friends who join in presenting this recognition has seen you
in a different perspective—as a patriotic American, as a
Christian laymen, as a skilled attorney, a board member, a
parliamentarian or even as a ferocious domino player... .”

CONTACT 1975

(J The annual student symposium CONTACT will bring such
distinguished speakers to the campus this winter as Supreme
Court Justice William Rehnquist (March 4), Pulitzer Prize-
winning journalist and author (The Best and the Brightest)
David Halberstam (March 3), conservative political columnist
and commentator James Jackson Kilpatrick (March 10), eco-
nomic analyst Louis Rukeyser (Feb. 26), Dr. Daniel Boorstin,
author (The Americans: The Democratic Experience) and di-
rector of the Smithsonian Institution’s Museum‘of History
and Technology (Feb. 25), and David Brower, militast en-
vironmentalist and former president of the Sierra Cich
(March 5). The theme of CONTACT this year is ‘Critical
Decisions Facing Americans,” derived from the name of the
organization established by Nelson Rockefeller after his
resignation as governor of New York. Co-chairmen of CON-
TACT this year are Benjamin M. Sherman of Minneapolis
and Robert Q. Wycoff, Jr., of West Palm Beach, Fla., both
seniors. CONTACT, begun in 1963, is organized and fi-
nanced entirely by the W&L student body and the Interfra-
ternity Council.

 

Former Supreme Court Justice Tom Clark addresses the
Tucker Forum.

AUTUMN SPEAKERS AND VISITORS

[LJFormer Gov. Linwood Holton, ’44, now assistant Secretary
of State for Congressional Affairs, sponsored by the Tucker
Forum of the School of Law.

[(jFormer Supreme Court Justice Tom Clark, also sponsored
by the law school’s Tucker Forum.

WeL

KTheodore J. Lowi, professor of American institutions at
Cornell, on the political consequences of a state of “per-
manent receivership.”

[JProf. Ma Pai-Sui, art professor at the National ‘Taiwan
Normal University, in residence for a week for an examina-
tion of “the synthesis of Eastern and Western painting tech-
niques,” sponsored by the art department and the Chinese
Studies Program.

(Dr. Andrew T. Roy—a 1925 Washington and Lee graduate
and former professor and chaplain at Chung Chi College,
Hong Kong—on the topic “Confucius: Sage, or Enemy of the
People?” also sponsored by the Chinese Studies Program.
[]W. Walton Butterworth, former American minister to
China and Great Britain and former ambassador to Canada,
Sweden, and the European community, in residence for a
week, under the sponsorship of a Lilly Foundation program
designed to bring the academic and “outside” worlds closer
together.

OJDr. Robert D. Williams, professor of classics at Reading
University in England, on the poetic intentions of Virgil’s
Aeneid.

(James M. Cox, professor of English at Dartmouth College
and editor of Robert Frost: Twentieth-Century Views and

author of Mark Twain: The Fate of Humor, on the topic

TROPHIES RECEIVED

 

HOMECOMING QUEEN

“Hawthorne: The American as Artist,” sponsored by W&L’s
Seminars in Literature program.

TTREASURER’S OFFICE STAFF CHANGES

(JL. Vernon Snyder, business manager of Washington and
Lee since 1972, has been given additional responsibilities as
assistant treasurer and assistant secretary to the Board of
Trustees. In those capacities, he succeeds Andrew B. Varner,
who has retired as W&L’s chief accountant, assistant treasurer
and assistant Board secretary. Other promotions in the busi-
ness office include William N. Morrison to be chief accoun-
tant and William N. Mohler to be director of University
services.

ORGANIZATION PRESIDENTS

(jWashington and Lee teachers and administrators became
presidents this fall of three regional professional organiza-
tions. They are Dr. John F. DeVogt, professor of administra-
tion and head of the department, president of the Southern
Management Association; Maurice D. Leach Jr., head of
W&L’s McCormick Library system, president of the Virginia
Library Association; and Dr. Lewis G. John, dean of students
and associate politics professor, president of the Virginia As-
sociation of Student Personnel Administrators.

OLD GEORGE FACE-LIFT

‘ae. \s
i{ ick ith

I vy

 

 

Receiving the 1973-74 Alumni Fund trophies
for the Class Agents who could not be pre-
sent for the ceremony at Homecoming were
(left) Dr. John McDaniel, professor of an-
thropology, for the Class of 1964, and Powell

Glass, Jr., of Lynchburg for the Class of
1938. The Class of ’64—Buck Ogilvie, Class
Agent—won the Bierer Trophy awarded to
the class graduated within the last 10 years
with the highest percentage of participation
and also the Richmond Trophy awarded to
the class graduated within the last 50 years
with the highest percentage of participation.
The Class of 1938—Jack Neill, Class Agent
—won the Washington Trophy for the lar-
gest amount contributed.

November 1974

a

During halftime ceremonies of the Home-
coming Game with Randolph-Macon, Dr.
Keith Shillington, professor of chemistry, as
is his custom, crowns the Homecoming
Queen. She is Miss Julie Jordan of Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College, representing
Delta Tau Delta. Attendants were Miss Chad
Gubbins of Mary Baldwin College, repre-
senting Phi Gamma Delta, and Miss Jennay
Anderson of Mary Baldwin, representing Pi
Kappa Alpha. Homecoming this fall honor-
ed the Academic and Law Classes of 1929,
1939, 1944, 1954, and 1969.

 

Old George—the venerable statue that graces
the top of Washington Hall—underwent an-
other of its clean-ups and paint-ups during
the early autumn months. Old George, to-
gether with the Colonnade, is perhaps the
most familiar and revered architectural fea-
ture associated with the University. Tourists
by the thousands photograph the statue. The
University, therefore, is careful to keep it
looking its best. W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, a
University photographer, used a_ telescopic
lens to record a workman applying a beauti-
fying brush to Old George’s nose.

21

Washington and Lee’s priceless Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain
has been chosen as the inspiration for
Wamsutta Mills’ premier line of domes-
tic linens for Spring 1975—its “Liberty
Hall Collection,” named for the Univer-
sity’s Revolutionary War-era predecessor
institution.

The bed linens, which will be market-
ed beginning in February, are in three
distinctive patterns—‘‘Porcelain Butter-
fly,’ with a design derived from the
Fitzhugh pattern butterfly used to turn
f corners on the border of an 18th-century
octagonal platter in the Reeves Collec-
tion; “Porcelain Medallion,” with a
grape-leaf pattern taken from the garland
decorating the inner rim of a bowl craft-
ed about 1800; and “Porcelain Garden,”
with a floral pattern adapted from the
garland and inside decoration on a small
teabowl believed to have been owned by
Paul Revere.

Washington and Lee will receive a
royalty from Wamsutta on sales of all
items in the Liberty Hall Collection. ‘The
revenue will be used in support of the
University’s educational programs.

Wamsutta President William Fine,
who visited the campus last spring to
make preliminary arrangements for the
manufacture of the linens, said the Liber-
ty Hall Collection will be marketed as a
tribute by the textile firm to the na-
tion’s Bicentennial.

The Wamsutta items were introduc-
ed to buyers for major department stores

      

One <

Porcelain Butterfly

Liberty Hall

linens aid
University

 

Porcelain Medallion

22

University Treasurer James W. Whitehead looks over a display of part of the
Liberty Hall Collection at a showing in New York.

throughout the nation in November in
New York City, and Wamsutta officials
report the reception of the Liberty Hall
Collection was enthusiastic. The porce-
lain-derived patterns constitute one of
three new Wamsutta lines to be intro-
duced this spring.

Earlier in the fall, Wamsutta officers,
including Fine, together with a number
of fashion editors and writers and pro-
minent New York City retailers, spent a
day at Washington and Lee to see at
first hand the University and, in parti-
cular, the ruins of Liberty Hall Academy,
whose name the Wamsutta line bears.
The visitors had a picnic lunch at Liber-
ty Hall itself and heard a brief discus-
sion by Dr. John M. McDaniel, assistant
anthropology professor, about the ar-
chaeological ‘dig’ being conducted there
by his students. The group also visited
Lee Chapel and toured the historic
Front Campus, and had an authentic
18th-century dinner—served on_ pieces
from the Reeves Collection of Chinese
Export Porcelain itself—at “Stonegate,”
the 1840 home of University ‘Treasurer
and Mrs. James W. Whitehead.

The Reeves Collection—from which
some 200 pieces are now on a nation-
wide tour sponsored by the Smithsonian
Institution in connection with the Ameri-
can Bicentennial—was bequeathed to
Washington and Lee in 1967 by Mr. and
Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves of Providence,
R.I., who had devoted their entire lives
to collecting porcelain.

 

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

by John Hughes, ’55

Of losing games by inches and don't
say ‘aaugh! to Charlie Brown

Never did the old sports cliche, “a
game of inches,” apply more appropri-
ately than this fall for the Washington
and Lee football team. The final 1-8-1
record could just as easily have been 5-5
if a few of those “inches” had gone in
W&L’s favor. None did.

Two losses resulted when the Gen-
erals just missed (by inches), a pair of
last-second field goals that would have
won. Against Centre, W&L rallied from
a 19-point deficit to take a 21-19 lead,
but lost after several close measurements
all went against W&L.

But the most bizarre incident turned
an apparent victory into a disappointing
tie, when visiting Randolph-Macon was
awarded a safety on an oOfficial’s judg-
ment call which later proved to be er-
roneous.

It happened in W&L’s Homecoming
Game. The Generals were on top, 20-18,
in a close game with Macon. The visitors
had the ball on W&L’s 1 with just 41
seconds remaining. A long pass appeared
to be a sure winning touchdown when
W&L defensive back Charlie Brown made
a spectacular interception, leaping high
into the air in the vicinity of the five-
yard line to make a fingertip catch.

But Brown retreated into the end
zone and the officials signaled the safety,
resulting in a 20-20 tie. Because of his
name, it was a natural for the head-
line writers: (Good Grief, Charlie
Brown!) The rules state that when a
player intercepts inside the five and his
original momentum carries him into the
end zone, the intercepting team retains
possession at the point of the catch. The
game films clearly show this to be the
case, but the officials had already ruled
otherwise. (Good Grief, Mr. Official).
Sports Illustrated picked up this incident
and gave it national notoriety.

It was just that kind of season for
football. But Head Coach Bill McHenry,
while disappointed, is not discouraged.
“With just one or two exceptions, we

24

played better this year against each op-
ponent than last year,” he said. “We
have some outstanding young players,
and with another good recruiting year
we should show definite improvement in
our overall football program.”

The soccer team posted a 4-5-3 record
and a runner-up spot in both the Vir-
ginia Intercollegiate Soccer Association
(VISA) and Virginia College Athletic As-
sociation (VCAA) division championship
races. The highlight of the year was a
2-1 victory over Lynchburg College; the
Generals lost a 3-2 heartbreaker to cham-

pion Madison.

Pa

et

 

Here Charlie Brown isn’t tackling his
own man—he’s sitting hard on an opponent.

The cross-country team, led by co-
captains Tem Washington and Jim Mc-
Menamin, posted a winning 7-6 record.
Washington and McMenamin finished
1-2 for the Generals in almost every meet.

BASKETBALL SEASON
BEGINS WITH VICTORIES

Washington and _ Lee’s basketball
team is off and winning. At exam break
in early December, the Generals, under
Coach Verne Canfield, had won three
and lost one.

The team posted a pair of wins in
the inaugural W&L Tip-Off ‘Tournament
over Maryville College, 94-67, and Frost-
burg State, 50-49 in a double overtime.
Then the Generals lost to the University
of Virginia, 77-69, in a game that was
more of a battle than many people ex-
pected. Next the Generals were hosts to
Lynchburg and eked out a 63-61 victory
in overtime. The remainder of W&L’s
basketball schedule follows:

Dec. 16—Framingham St. Away
Dec. 17—Mass. Maritime Away
Jan. 3-4—W&L Invitational

(Haverford, Williams,

King’s Point) HOME
Jan. 7—Bridgewater HOME
Jan. 8—Navy HOME
Jan. 11—Baltimore U. Away
Jan. 14—Emory & Henry HOME
Jan. 18—Hampden-Sydney HOME
Jan. 22—Bridgewater Away
Jan. 25—Roanoke Away
Jan. 28—Kean HOME
Jan. 31—York Away
Feb. 1—Bowie State Away
Feb. 4—Lynchburg Away
Feb. 6—Old Dominion HOME
Feb. 8—Eastern Mennonite HOME
Feb. 12—Emory & Henry Away
Feb. 15—Hampden-Sydney Away
Feb. 19—Randolph-Macon HOME
Feb. 22—Madison HOME
Feb. 25—VCAA ‘Tournament
Feb. 27—Athletes in Action HOME

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a =

Justice and Mrs. Compton with their daughters, Leigh Christia

tie, although that would be nice, but col-
lege traditions have to change with the
times.”

“Basically,” he added, ‘‘the Washing-
ton and Lee student today is perhaps a
more intelligent and interesting student
than we were back in the late 40s and
early 50s.”

Justice Compton could have taken
his undergraduate degree and played his
basketball at Randolph-Macon College if
he had wished to be a commuter student.
He grew up in Ashland, where his father,
the late George P. Compton, was a wide-
ly respected and even beloved education-
al administrator in the Hanover County
public schools. He was a Southern Con-
ference football official for 25 years, as
well, which helps account for the future
Supreme Court justice’s interest in sports.
The senior Compton was a devoted alum-
nus and member of the athletic board at

November 1974

 

Ed

R-MC, but the younger Compton chose
to go away to school and selected W&L.
Compton became an excellent basket-
ball player on a good W&L team that
competed in a 17-member Southern Con-
ference that had many of the schools that
are now in the basketball-crazy Atlantic
Coast Conference. He was a freshman
on the 1946-47 team that made the eight-
school tournament in Raleigh. He play-
ed forward or guard on teams that sport-
ed such notable General stars as Jay
Handlan and Bob Goldsmith. And in his
senior year when he was captain of the
team, Compton joined teammate George
Pearson as two of 10 Southern Confer-
ence seniors selected to play an All-Star
game against Everett Case’s powerful
North Carolina State Wolfpack.
Perhaps some of the jurist’s earliest
observations of life’s injustices came from
playing in the tiny hotbeds of fanaticism

ee

     

n, Mary Bryan, and Melissa Anne, in a family Easter portrait.

(old Doremus was not unique in those
days) that passed as basketball arenas
around the state of Virginia. At one
Virginia institution, which shall remain
nameless, students hurled chairs from
the balcony to the court while W&L play-
ers were shooting foul shots. Another op-
ponent positioned members of its foot-
ball squad at the end lines to rough up
any W&L player following through after
a driving lay-up shot.

Infinitely more agreeable and beauti-
ful than that sort of “blind justice” was
a blind date Compton went on at Hol-
lins College in 1949. This turned out to
be Betty Leigh Stephenson of Richmond,
who became Mrs. A. Christian Compton
in 1953, a few months after she was gra-
duated from Hollins and he from Law
School. With daughters Leigh Christian,
9; Mary Bryan, 8; and Melissa Anne, 5,
the Comptons are a handsome family.

27

by Milton Colvin

Professor of Politics

How they balance the ticket

at the University of Vienna

A funny thing happened to me on
my way to a sabbatical in Austria. I had
planned to take a full year off and com-
plete a study of Armed Neutrality as it
applied to Austria and Switzerland.
Swiss neutrality was recognized inter-
nationally at the Vienna Congress in
1815, and the Swiss were expected to
defend it. Austrian neutrality was rec-
ognized internationally in the Four Pow-
er Agreement of 1955, which resulted in
the withdrawal of American, Russian,
French and British troops. Austria was
expected to defend it.

There is an old saying in Europe
that “in Germany the situation is serious
but not hopeless while in Austria it is
hopeless, but not serious.” Changing this
around a bit, one can say that Swiss de-
fense is serious business. Just what one
could say about Austria, I wanted to find
out.

After getting my family more or less
settled (two boys remained stateside at
Yale and Dartmouth) which meant put-
ting two daughters in the American In-
ternational School in Vienna and _ find-
ing an apartment for us to live in, I
took up residence in the attic of the
Austrian Society for Inte.:ational Rela-
tions and Foreign Policy and began to
dig in. Sharing both the attic and an in-
terest in Armed Neutrality was a scholar
from England and one from Italy; with
the former I spoke often and with the
latter seldom, my Italian being non-exis-
tent, except, for a few memorable but
hardly usable phrases picked up in Italy
during the war.

In early fall, I was asked by the Uni-
versity of Vienna if I would accept a
visiting professorship for the semester, be-

 

Dr. Colvin has been a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1961.
He holds the Ph.D. degree from the
University of Heidelberg and is married
to the former Countess Maria von Kiel-
mansegg from Bad Ischl, Austria.

 

28

ginning in February and lasting to July.
After clearing it with Washington and
Lee, I accepted. My acceptance had to
be processed by an executive committee
of the faculty of the University of Vienna
and then by the faculty itself. In the
process, I almost wound up teaching
under the ageis of the theology faculty,
as there was budget money there but not
in the philosophical faculty. After some
juggling, money was found in the philo-
sophical faculty and my name was sent
to the Ministry of Education for formal
approval. During the fall, the philosophi-
cal faculty had had as a visiting profes-
sor the head of the department of philo-
sophy at the University of Moscow. I was
obviously going to balance out the ticket.

The original idea was that I would
teach one course on U.S. Foreign Policy
and one course on U.S. Defense Policy,
but at the last minute I was asked if I
would be willing to substitute a course on
American Government for Defense Pol-
icy. There is no question but what the

 

Dr. and Mrs. Colvin and daughters,
Maria-Gabriele and Katharine out for a
stroll in the Austrian countryside.

high interest in Watergate was the rea-
son. I agreed to teach both courses in
German, which turned out to be a
chastising experience. It was true that I
spoke German fairly fluently, but the
give and take in classroom discussion and
debate was, at least in the beginning, a
bit more than I had bargained for. Both
courses were colloquiums with about 20
students in each. Some students in both
groups were ardent and argumentative
Marxists. About half of my students were
Austrians. The rest came from a variety
of nations including Germany, Italy,
Yugoslavia, the United States, Morocco,
Colombia, and one Kurd from _ Iraq.
They were a lively group, particularly
when they found out that they were en-
couraged to speak out which is rather
rare in European universities.

Just walking through the courtyard
of the University one was constantly re-

WeL

 

 

minded that Vienna had been the capital
of an empire of 60 million and not, as it
is today, the capital of a small nation of
7 million. Busts of renowned scholars
were everywhere, and in the classroom
one could feel the muted presence of
the past. I must say I enjoyed it. My
Austrian colleagues were friendly but
busy. We saw each other generally for a
coffee before classes or a quick conversa-
tion on the marble stairs.

Toward the end of the semester,
just before giving oral exams, I was at-
tacked in the Communist student news-
paper as “a reactionary fascist and an
apologist for Wall Street.” I was de-
lighted. All my life I have been a liberal
Democrat and had often been called a
“socialist” or worse. Now, at last, I was
a reactionary. With great glee, I snatch-
ed up copies of the paper to give to
friends. My students were most upset by
the attack and apologized, all, that is,
except my Marxist students, but I told
them I was not offended and reminded
them that practically all the other pro-
fessors were being attacked as _ reac-
tionaries or fascists. It was par for the
course. Later, during the oral examina-
tions, I had the editor of the Communist
paper as a student before me. He was
very clever but, in my book, a pretty mix-
ed up young man. Nevertheless, he did
splendidly and I gave him the Austrian
equivalent of an A. When I told him
this, he looked at me in a rather sur-
prised way and I said to him in English,
which I knew he understood: “Anglo-
Saxon fair play.” Perhaps it made an
impression. In any case, he broke into a
smile and said “thank you,” turned and
walked out.

Now back in Lexington, I am trying
to put together my notes on Armed
Neutrality for a book I am writing. My
Austrian students are missed, but I like
the ones I have here at home. It is good
to get back and I can lecture in English.
And that’s a plus too.

November 1974

 

 

Name your candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-Laws of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., the names, pictures, and addresses of the Nominating
Committee for 1974-75 are listed below:

 

ROBERT C. WALKER, °38
Committee Chairman
Joseph Walker & Co.
Cotton Merchants

P.O. Box 11359
Columbia, S.C. 29211

STEPHEN H. SUTTLE, '62
Attorney

McMahon, Smart, Wilson,
Camp, Lee & Surovik
P.O. Box 1440

Abilene, Texas 79604

JAMEs D. BONEBRAKE, 54
General Agent
Northwestern Mutual
Life Insurance Co.

925 Superior Building
Cleveland, Ohio 44114

The committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill
three seats on the Alumni Board of Directors and one vacancy on the
University Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Alumni Association may
submit names of alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomination
for the offices to be filled. Alumni may send names directly to any
member of the committee or to the committee through the office of
the Executive Secretary of the Alumni Association at the University.

‘The committee will close its report on March 15, 1975, and present
its Nominations to the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on
May 10, 1974. The annual meeting coincides with the Spring Reunion
Weekend.

Members of the 12-man Alumni Board of Directors are elected to
four-year terms, with the terms of three members expiring each year. Re-
tiring from the Board in May are Everett Tucker, Jr., ’34, of Little
Rock; Richard D. Haynes, ’58, of Dallas; and Albert D. Darby, Jr., ’43,
of Cumberland, Md. Alumni members of the Athletic Committee serve
two-year terms, with one alumni member retiring each year. The mem-
ber retiring in May is David L. Waters, ’52, of Covington, Va.

 

 

29

W&L gathering in Tokyo harbingers
singing of the Swing in Japanese

Alumni Joseph K. Banks, ’55, Wil-
liam H. Kyle, ’51, and David A. Wouters,
55, all living and working at the time
in ‘Tokyo, were hosts at a dinner for three
W&L students and a faculty member
on May 31, 1974, at the Tokyo Ameri-
can Club.

The students, Brent Miller, °76, Norm
Kristoff, 76, and Kerry Scott, ’76, and

 

Above left: David A. Wouters,
wife Joyce, and daughter
Sharon, with Fujiyama in
the background. Above

right: William H. Kyle, Jr.,
at a Japanese shrine

with a hand on sake con-
tainers. At right: Joseph

K. Banks stands in the
garden of a Japanese home.

30

Dr. Minor Rogers, assistant professor of
religion, were visiting Tokyo after spend-
ing the Spring Term at Kansai Univer-
sity of Foreign Studies near Kyoto. The
students learned first-hand of the oppor-
tunities and challenges of pursuing a
business career in Asia, and the alumni
were pleased, if somewhat surprised, to
learn of an additional W&L presence in

Japan and the development of interest
in East Asian studies at the University.

Joe Banks, manager of purchasing
services for Union Carbide Eastern, Inc.,
has responsibility for all his firm’s opera-
tions in Asia. This takes him on frequent
trips as far as India. He has now re-
turned to the New York offices of the
firm.

Bill Kyle, a resident of Japan for the
past 12 years as the representative of
Pickanis Mather Co. International, re-
cently started his own consulting firm,
Kyle International Associates, with head-
quarters in Tokyo.

Dave Wouters, corporate liaison man-
ager for Coca-Cola (Japan) Co. Ltd., has
lived in Tokyo for the past five years.
Included among his responsibilities has
been the selection and training of Japa-
nese personnel as replacements for
American managers.

In June, Bill Kyle visited the W&L
campus en route to the Greenbriar
Hotel, W. Va., to address a management
group on opportunities for American
business in Asia today. Bill is the past
president of the American Chamber of
Commerce in Tokyo, a body with more
than 1,000 members, and is_president-
elect of the board of trustees of the
American School in Tokyo.

To the best of our knowledge, the
W&L Swing has yet to be sung in Japa-
nese, but with the inception of Japanese
language courses this year at W&L (eight
students are enrolled in elementary
Japanese), this should present no prob-
lem in the future.

It is anticipated that Harrison Jf.
Pemberton, head of the Department of
Philosophy, will accompany the second
group to Japan for the Spring ‘Term,
1975. Again, students will study various
aspects of East Asian civilization while
living with Japanese families in the
Kyoto-Osaka area.

(Dr. Rogers supplied the
tion for this article.)

informa-

WeL

 

JACKSONVILLE. Incoming freshmen
from the Jacksonville area and their fath-
ers were entertained by the chapter at its
annual stag dinner on Aug. 20 at the
Seminole Club. Ellis Zahra, 68, chap-
ter president, presided. An informative
program dealing with student life at
Washington and Lee was arranged by
Hap Stein, ’74. A highlight of the even-
ing was a talk by H. Taylor Jones, ’34L,
on the continuing excellence of the Uni-
versity in the areas of academics and per-
sonal honor.

LITTLE ROCK. Alumni from the
Little Rock area celebrated the opening
of the University’s traveling exhibit from
the Reeves Collection of Chinese Export
Porcelain with a gala social hour and
dinner on Sept. 27 at the Little Rock
Country Club. ‘The porcelain exhibit
went on display at the Arkansas Arts
Center the day before. University Treas-
urer James W. Whitehead and his wife
Celeste were special guests at the affair.
Whitehead, in an entertaining talk, ex-
plained the history and significance of
the Reeves collection and how it is bene-
fiting Washington and Lee. After the
meeting many of the more than 30 guests
who attended the affair accompanied the
Whiteheads to the Arts Center to view
the collection. William C. Norman, ’56,
chapter president, presided at the meet-
ing. Chapter members who helped make
the arrangements were Everett ‘Tucker,
Jr., 34; Howard T. Shepherd, ’40; Steph-
en K. Shepherd, ’68; and William F.
Rector, Jr., ’70.

RICHMOND. W&L’s successful lacrosse
Coach Jack Emmer was a special guest at
a well-attended meeting of Richmond
alumni on Oct. 25 in the dining hall of
St. Christopher’s School. Coach Emmer,
who has guided the lacrosse Generals to
nationally rankings, reported on the Uni-
versity’s overall athletic program with
emphasis on the fall’s football program

November 1974

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

At Little Rock

are chapter officers,
Howard Shep-
herd, vice president;
William C. Nor-
man, president;

and William F.
Rector, Jr., treasurer.

An enthusiastic contingent of W&L supporters turned out for the WeL-Millersville
State football game in Millersville, Pa., on Sept. 14. Ken L. Shirk, Jr., 43, Ned Grove,
56, and Rufus A. Fulton, ’26, helped organize a stirring pep band. Cathy

Sabatin (standing ), sister of Mrs. Ken Shirk, III, ’71, was the chief cheer leader.

 

and the University’s outstanding lacrosse
record over the past few years. Films of
the Generals’ lacrosse victory over the
University of Virginia were shown. A
brief hospitality hour preceded a buffet
dinner. Sam Dudley, ’58, outgoing chap-
ter president, presided and _ reviewed
plans for the future. He reported that the
chapter had just published a chapter

Exchanging greetings
at Richmond meet-
ing are William B.
Jacobs, ’29, Stuart
Sanders, II, ’31, John
Newton Thomas, ’24,
and Mrs. Sanders.

alumni directory and copies would be
mailed to all members. He also explain-
ed the chapter’s plan to inaugurate an
annual “Distinguished Alumnus Award.”
Special recognition was extended to Dr.
John Newton Thomas, ’24, former Rec-
tor of the Board of Trustees, and to
Jonah Larrick, ’15. Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn was also a guest at the meet-

31

ing. The following slate of new officers
were unanimously elected: Robert E.
Payne, ’63A, ’67L, president; William B.
Jacobs, ’29, first vice president; Jeff Wil-
liams, III, ’65, second vice president;
E. A. (Ned) Powell, Jr., ’70, secretary;
and Robert B. Priddy, ’67, treasurer. The
incoming president, in receiving the
gavel, paid tribute to the leadership of
Sam Dudley and presented him with a
memento of appreciation. Bob Priddy
was recognized for making arrangements
for the meeting.

DANVILLE - MARTINSVILLE -CHAT-
HAM. Alumni of the area gathered at
the Chatmoss Country Club in Martins-
ville on Nov. 1 for a dinner and _ busi-
ness meeting. Cocktails preceded the
dinner at which law Prof. Lewis H. (Lash)
LaRue spoke on the law program, with
special emphasis on Lewis Hall, the new
law building now under construction,
which will house the law school and the
innovative Frances Lewis Law Center.
LaRue was accompanied by Alumni Sec-
retary Bill Washburn and answered ques-
tions after his remarks. In a short busi-
ness meeting, Doug Frith, ’57, reported
for the nominating committee and the
following new officers were elected: Dr.
Robert H. Mauck, ’50, president; Victor
Millner, ’54, vice president; and Buddy
Eanes, Jr., °54, secretary-treasurer. Mr.
and Mrs. Eanes received thanks for ar-
ranging the meeting.

MEMPHIS. The Washington and Lee v.
Southwestern at Memphis football game
on Nov. 2 was the occasion for an alum-
ni gathering at the Memphis Country
Club. Cocktails preceded a brunch, and
then everybody went to the game. The
results were a bit disappointing for
Washington and Lee on the field, but
W&L spirits ran high. Trustee Stewart
Buxton and Mrs. Buxton were present
for the affair along with Alumni Secre-
tary Bill Washburn.

32

 

 

   
   

I 6

New Richmond officers are Robert B. Priddy, treasurer; Jeff Williams, III,
second vice president; Robert E. Payne, president; William B. Jacobs, first vice president;
and Ned Powell, Jr., secretary.

Law Prof. Lewis

H. LaRue (center)
with Danville chapter
officers, Buddy
Eanes, Jr., secretary-
treasurer, and Dr.
Robert H. Mauck,
president.

 

 

wee

   

Gathered for the hospitality hour after the WeL-Centre football game in Danville, Ky.,
are IT. Kennedy Helm, Jr., ’40; Bill Washburn, ’40; Clyde H. Foshee, Jr., ’66;

George Wood, ’44; Morrison R. Nelson, ’43; Thomas J. Hill, III, ’51; Charles B.
Castner, Jr., ’52; Richard Day, ’41, and Kent Brown, ’74.

WeL

 

see) “eee

tT ete

 

SE. ~ eer

re

~~

Class notes

 

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $66.00 f.o.b.
Lexington, Virginia
Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Immediate shipment
from available stock.

 

 

November 1974

1927

After 45 years of service as pastor and
superintendent in United Methodist Church,
Dr. FRANK D. CHARLTON has retired. He and
his wife now live in Austin, Texas.

193]

HENRY MCLANE, a practicing attorney of
42 years in Clay, W. Va., has retired and
moved to Inverness, Fla.

WILLIAM L, JONES, senior vice president and
executive trust officer at the Louisville
Trust Co. in Louisville, Ky., retired in Oc-
tober. He was succeeded by Thomas E.
Pfau, son of C. Edward Pfau, ’26. Louis-
ville ‘Trust has had several Washington and
Lee men in executive positions, including
former president William S$. Farmer, ’33,
now retired, and the current chairman of
the board, John H. Hardwick, ’31.

1938

PAUL M. MILLER, after studying Spanish at
the Foreign Service Institute, has gone to
the Dominican Republic, where he is coun-
sul at the U. S. Embassy in Santo Domingo.

1939

Rouse Tower, a 12-story office building in
Newport News, Va., built and owned by
RANDOLPH D. Rouse of Washington, D. C.
was officially opened in impressive cere-
monies in September. The building, which
has capacity for about 90 businesses, is nam-
ed in honor of Rouse’s father, Parke Shep-
pard Rouse; a brother, John Dashiell Rouse,
killed in Korea, and a cousin, William E.
Rouse. A plaque in the building in their
memory was unveiled by Rouse’s mother,
Mrs. Parke S. Rouse, Sr. Ground was broken
for the building in October, 1972, and it was
opened to tenants in May. Among the dig-
nitaries attending the ceremony were Rouse’s
brother, Parke S. Rouse, °37, director of the
Jamestown Foundation; Raymond D. Bot-
tom, Jr., vice president of Hampton Roads
Broadcasting, and Mrs. Dorothy R. Bottom,
vice president, editor-in-chief, and business
manager of The Daily Press, Inc.

Dr. ALEXANDER BLAIN, III; surgeon-in-chief
and medical director of the Alexander Blain
Memorial Hospital and Blain Clinic in De-
troit, has published a small booklet of
Haiku poems entiled Remember Voices. The
collection was presented to the Primatic
Club of Detroit.

 

 

Hoffman Heads
Judicial Center

 

U.S. District Court Judge Walter
E. Hoffman, a 1931 graduate of the
School of Law, has become director of
the Federal Judicial Center in Wash-
ington, D. C. He took the post at the
invitation of U.S. Chief Justice War-
ren E. Burger. Judge Hoffman has
been on the federal bench for 20
years and has presided over many
cases that have drawn national atten-
tion. A colorful and highly respected
jurist, Judge Hoffman was thrust into
the national eye last year when he
was appointed to oversee the grand
jury investigation of former Vice
President Spiro Agnew. Also for near-
ly half of his time on the bench, he
has handled the complexities of Nor-
folk’s school desegregation case. He
was appointed to the federal bench
in June, 1954, by President Eisen-
hower. In 1970, Washington and Lee
conferred upon him the _ honorary
degree of Doctor of Laws. The Judi-
cial Center, which he now heads, was
created by Congress in 1967 to further
court research and education. Judge
Hoffman heads a staff of 38 at the
Center, which conducts seminars for
federal judges, magistrates, bankruptcy
judges, probation officers, and clerks.

 

 

33

194]

RICHARD W. SMITH, Staunton attorney and
a member of the Virginia State Bar’s govern-
ing council, has been elected president of the
newly formed Virginia Bar Foundation. The
foundation was recently chartered to im-
prove the administration of justice in the
state, promote continuing legal education
for lawyers and establish a scholarship pro-
gram for law students.

CHARLES L. HOBSON, prominent attorney of
Frankfort, Ky., was a guest of the U.S. Navy
aboard the U.S.S. Vulcan on its cruise Au-
gust 23-26 from Newport, R. I. to Norfolk,
Va. Hobson is the past president of the
Navy League of Kentucky. The purpose of
the cruise is to acquaint civilians with the
operation of the Navy and to enable Naval
officers to obtain viewpoints of representative
members of the civilian community. Hobson,
who served aboard the U. S. S$. Midway dur-
ing World War II, reports that he enjoyed
the cruise very much and refreshed his skill
as a navigator, making several “sights” with
his sextant during the voyage.

1942

FREDERICK ‘T, BROMM, an _ Officer and _ staff
member of the First National Bank in Roa-
noke for 21 years, was recently elected presi-
dent and chief executive officer of United
Virginia Bank/Security National. Most re-
cently Bromm has been vice president of
the Bank of North Carolina in Jackson-
ville, N. C. Bromm completed the Stonier
Graduate Banking School and served with
Chemical Bank and Trust Co. in New York
after his graduation from Washington and
Lee. He is a past president of the Carolina-
Virginia Chapter of Robert Morris Associ-
ates, an organization of bank loan and cred-
it officers. He also is a member of the Soc-
iety for the Crippled of Southwestern Vir-
ginia and the Roanoke Mental Hygiene As-
sociation.

DouGALp McD. MonroEr is currently academic
dean at Atlanta Junior College, which
opened in September. He had been in teach-
ing and administrative assignments at
Queens College in Charlotte, N.C., Southwes-
tern University at Memphis, the University
of Kentucky, Brunswick Junior College, and
at Montreat-Anderson College.

RICHARD T. SLOAN is president of Shengas
Corp. in Harrisonburg, Va., with branches
in Winchester, Front Royal, and Elkton. He
joined Shengas, a propane gas producer and

34

distributor, in 1945. He and his wife, Mary
Virginia, have a daughter.

1943

S. L. KOPALD, JR., prominent business execu-
tive of Memphis, has been awarded an
honorary degree of Doctor of Humane Let-
ters by the Hebrew Union College-Jewish
Institute of Religion in Cincinnati. The
award was made at commencement exercises
on May 31, 1974. After two mergers, Kopald
is now president of Humko Sheffield Chemi-
cal Co., a firm which was begun, in part, by
his father, Sigmund Lindsay Kopald. In
1952, the senior Kopald sold the Humko Co.
to Kraftco Corp., and Kopald, Jr., became
executive vice president of Kraftco’s renam-
ed Humko Products Division. Last year
Humko Co. was merged with Sheffield
Chemical, whose major product is protein
hydrolysates made from casein, and Kopald,
Jr., was named president. He is handling
the centennial of the Hebrew Union Col-
lege-Jewish Institute of Religion and is a
board member and former chairman of the

: 1944

ROBERT H. SEAL has just completed a term of
office as president of the Fiesta San An-
tonio Commission. This is the organization
responsible for coordination of events during
a 10-day period in April of each year when
San Antonio celebrates the anniversary of
the Battle of San Jacinto in which Texas
won her independence. Seal is executive
vice president of the National Bank of Com-
merce of San Antonio.

1949

L. VERNON SNYDER, business manager of
Washington and Lee University since 1972,
has been given additional responsibilities as
assistant treasurer of the University and as-
sistant secretary of its Board of Trustees. Be-
fore joining Washington and Lee’s staff in
1966, Snyder served with the Navy and
worked for the Prudential Insurance Co.,
Lexington Telephone Co., and the Rock-
bridge County Board of Supervisors. He is
a past president of the Kerrs Creek Ruritan
Club, a former director of the Lexington-
Rockbridge Chamber of Commerce, a former
director of the Stonewall Jackson Hospital,
andd is currently an elder in the Lexington
Presbyterian Church.

1950

Tom C, Frost, JrR., a San Antonio banker

 

R. O. Glasier, ’54

and civic leader and a member of the
Washington and Lee University Board of
Trustees, has been named by the Exchange
Club of San Antonio as the recipient of the
Annual Golden Deeds Award. Frost was also
honored as “San Antonio’s Man of the Year”
at a formal banquet on Nov. 4. Frost is the
fourth generation of the family to head the
Frost National Bank, which grew from a
merchantile operation established by his
great-grandfather in 1868. In 1951, Frost as-
sumed the management of the foreign de-
partment and in 1954 was elected a director
and vice president of the bank. He was
elected the 5th president of the Frost Bank
in 1962 and became chairman of the board
in 1971. In 1973, the Frost Bank Corp. re-
ceived approval to become a multi-bank
holding company and Frost was _ elected
chairman of the board. Frost holds several
corporate directorships. In the late 1960s, he
was president of the San Antonio Clearing
House and the Texas Bankers Association.
He also served as director of the San An-
tonio Branch of the Federal Reserve Bank of
Dallas, the Association of Reserve City Bank-
ers and is vice president for Texas of the
American Bankers Association. He has di-
rected much effort toward the strengthening
of the U.S.-Mexico relationships and is a
founder and director of the United States-
Mexico Chamber of Commerce in Washing-
ton, D. C. Frost has accepted numerous ap-
pointments to head civic groups and public
institutions. He is greatly interested in
voluntarily supported education.

RoBertT N. MACKEY, a traffic executive and
an assistant vice president for Lyke’s Broth-
ers Steamship Co., Inc., the East Gulf Divi-
sion, has been promoted and _ transferred
from Mobile to New Orleans, where he will
assume the position of vice president-traffic.
Mackey has been a member of the Lykes
staff since 1953 and has previously held as-
signments in New Orleans, Galveston, and
Puerto Rico.

195]

JAMEs F. GALLIVAN has been appointed vice
president of the retail services group for
the Commerce Union Bank in Nashville.
He was formerly the partner in charge of in-
stitutional and international sales for J. C.
Bradford & Co. The Gallivans have three
children.

MARRIED: BRANTLEY F. BARR, JR., to Cheri
Lynne Face on Nov. 1, 1974, in Ft. Lauder-

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

O. H. Harper, ’59

dale, Fla. Barr is an investment banker with
the firm of Dean Witter & Co.

THE REv. CHARLIE F. McNutt of Jackson-
ville, Fla. has accepted a call to become rec-
tor of the Trinity Episcopal Church, Nor-
borne Parish, in Martinsburg, W.Va. He
began his duties Sept. 1. McNutt received
his bachelor of divinity degree from the
Episcopal Theological Seminary in Alex-
andria, Va. in 1956 and the master
of science degree in urban and _ regional
planning from Florida State University in
1970. In 1960, he went to Tallahassee as
assistant rector of St. John’s Church. From
1962 to 1968, he served as rector of St.
Luke’s Church in Jacksonville and for the
next two years was planning consultant to
the Diocese of Florida. Since 1970, he has
been director of planning for the Diocese
of Florida, archdeacon of Jacksonville and
diocesan canon. He and his wife, the former
Alice C. Turnbull, have three children.

1954

JAMEs C. CONNER, formerly senior counsel
with International Finance Corp. of the
World Bank Group, has returned to the
private practice of law and is now with
the Chicago firm of Sidley and Austin in
their Washington, D. C. office.

ROBERT E, BRADFORD has been named as-
sociate Manager, government affairs, for the
Firestone Tire & Rubber Co. Bradford will
be responsible for broadening Firestone’s
liaison activities with the legislative and
executive branches of the federal govern-
ment in Washington. Prior to joining Fire-
stone, Bradford served as administrative as-
sistant to former U. S. Rep. Richard Poff,
as administrative assistant to Sen. William
E. Brock, III, and most recently as director
of congressional affairs for the Cost of Liv-
ing Council and then associate director of
Americans for the Presidency. He and _ his
wife, the former Nancy Rondelli of Spring-
field, Ill., live in Vienna, Va.

NORMAN L. DoByNns, former corporate vice
president in charge of government relations
for the American Can Co., has joined the
staff of the National Association of Manu-
facturers as senior vice president for the
NAM Field Division. Dobyns will be respon-
sible for activities of field staff members in
nine cities who maintain contacts with the
nearly 13,000 NAM member companies
throughout the nation. He will also supervise

the Washington-based staff of the National

November 1974

 

Preacher to

The first sermon President Gerald
R. Ford heard after succeeding to the
presidency was preached by a W&L
alumnus, the Rev. William L. Dols,
Class of 1955, rector of Immanuel
Church-on-the-Hill in Alexandria, Va.
Dols, in his sermon, called for “pick-
ing up the broken pieces” and like
Lazarus “to rise up, to return from
the dying season, to awaken to a new
day with other possibilities, to join to-

 

the President

gether and turn to an agenda of
hard needs in our land that have
been waiting these many months to be
addressed and met.” The President, an
Episcopalian, and his family had
made Immanuel their parish church
since 1955, although their member-
ships remained at Grace Church in
Grand Rapids, Mich. So that sermon
on Aug. 11 was not the first the Presi-
dent had heard Dols deliver.

 

 

Industrial Council. Among his past assign-
ments, Dobyns was administrative assistant
to U.S. Rep. Thomas Downing, public rela-
tions vice president of a Washington ad-
vertising agency, and before these assign-
ments was, in 1956-57, public relations of-
ficer for the Office of the Chief of Trans-
portation of the Army.

ROBERT O. GLASIER has been appointed in-
ternational sales manager for Tropicana
Products, Inc. Glasier had lived and worked
in Europe for the past 15 years, where he
held positions as a marketing consultant
with Graham Parker, Inc., in Paris and
Dusseldorf. He also served as international
planning and sales manager in Brussels for
Hollingsworth & Vose Co. He and his wife,
Erika, a native of Remscheid, Germany, and
their two children are living in Bradenton,

Fla.
1955

RAYMOND D. SMITH, Jr., formerly first vice
president in charge of the Middle East and
Africa Division of the International Banking
Department of Bankers Trust Co. of New
York, has recently been named first vice
president of the credit coordination and
loan policy division, which has _ respon-
sibilities for International Banking division’s
portfolio of loans amounting to several bil-

lion dollars.
1956

Dr. Rupert F, CHISHOLM, Jr., has been nam-
ed assistant professor of management at the
Capitol Campus of Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity in Middletown. He recently received
his doctor of philosophy degree in organi-
zational behavior from Case Western Reserve
University. He had previously worked for
Exxon Corp. as an employee relations man-
ager.

SAMUEL A. SYME, JR. has been named man-
aging editor of COAST Magazine, published
in Myrtle Beach, S.C. A division of Resort
Publications, COAST has a circulation of
17,500 and is directed toward the tourist in-

dustry.
1957

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. NEIL CANFIELD, a
daughter, Hope Elaine, on Jan. 22, 1974.
Canfield is currently manager of the carpet
division of Empire Carpet Corp. The family
lives in Morris ‘Township, N.].

H. MERRILL PLAIsTED, III, vice president and
director of Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc. in

Richmond, Va., has been appointed Virginia
state director of the International Council
of Shopping Centers. He will be the liaison
with council members on the state level, or-
ganize local and regional idea exchange
meetings, and present the needs and prob-
lems of Virginia’s shopping center industry

to state agencies.
1958

GARY MCPHERSON, who was head basketball
coach at VMI in the late 1960s and who
moved on to be an assistant basketball
coach at West Virginia University, will be-
come the head basketball coach at Alderson-
Broaddus College in Philippi, W.Va.

Lewis WEXLER of Johnson City, Tenn., a
prominent business man, has been appointed
to the University of Tennessee Development
Council. Wexler is president and_ chief
executive officer of Free Service Tire Co.
Wexler is a member of the Johnson City
Kiwanis Club and serves on the executive
board of the Sequoyah Council of the Boy
Scouts of America.

1959

Dr. RAYMOND P. WHITE, JR., dean of the
School of Dentistry at the University of
North Carolina, was the featured speaker
recently at a luncheon held by the Dental
Foundation of North Carolina, Inc. Prior to
his going to the University of North Caro-
lina, Dr. White served as assistant dean for
administrative affairs at the Medical College
of Virginia School of Dentistry and before
that was chairman of the Department of
Oral Surgery at the University of Kentucky
School of Dentistry. He is a diplomate of
the American Board of Oral Surgery and
serves as an advisor to the board. He is a
member of the American Society of Oral
Surgeons, the American Dental Association,
the New York Academy of Sciences, In-
ternational Association for Dental Research
and other equally prominent and outstand-
ing organizations.

OweEN H. HARPER has been appointed senior
vice president and deputy manager of
Crocker Bank’s newly formed statewide cor-
porate banking division. The Crocker Bank
is located in San Francisco. Prior to joining
Crocker, Harper was a first vice president,
corporate finance, with Blyth, Eastman, Dil-
lon & Co., Inc., New York, and formerly was
a vice president in the corporate banking
group of the First National City Bank in
New York.

35

1960

MARRIED: Epwarp S. ALLEN to Ann Clark
Shepard on Feb. 23, 1974. The couple lives
in Birmingham.

RAYMOND E. WOOLRIDGE has been elected a
member of the board of directors of Eppler,
Guerin & Turner, Inc., investment bankers
and members of the New York Stock Ex-
change in Dallas and Houston. Woolridge
is also vice president and manager of the
firm’s Houston office.

1962
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. MONTGOMERY
TUCKER, a daughter, Courtney Allison, on
March 28, 1974. Tucker is with the office of
the United States Attorney in Roanoke.

ROBERT F. NoRFLEET, JR., marketing officer at
United Virginia Bankshares, Inc. of Rich-
mond, Va., was one of 15 recent graduates
of the Stonier Graduate School of Banking
whose thesis was selected for inclusion in
the permanent collection of three libraries.
Norfleet’s thesis “Product Development in
Large Banks,” will be added to the collec-
tions of the libraries of the American Bank-
ers Association in Washington, D.C. Norfleet
joined United Virginia Bank in 1967.

R. WILLIAM IpE, III, an Atlanta attorney, has
been named chairman-elect of the American
Bar Association’s Young Lawyers Section.
Ide served as secretary of the section during
this past year. He is the current president
of the State Bar of Georgia’s Young Lawyers
Section. In addition to his law degree from
the University of Virginia, Ide also earned
his master’s degree in business administra-
tion from Georgia State University. He was
a law clerk to Judge Griffin Bell of the
U. S. Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in
1965-66 and was admitted to the Bar in
Georgia in 1966. Ide has been a member
of the Criminal Law and Prison Reform
Committee and a past chairman of the State
Bar’s Committee on Legal Aid to Indigents.

1963

JOHN M. GRAHAM, III, an attorney in Rome,
Ga., has been named one of Georgia’s
Five Outstanding Young Men by the Geor-
gia Jaycees. Graham is a member of the
board of directors of the First National
Bank of Rome, a member of the board of
governors of the State Bar of Georgia, and
editor of the newsletter of the Young Law-
yers Section of the Georgia State Bar As-
sociation. He is also active in a number of
civic and social clubs.

36

 

M. H. Hulbert, 64

J. HOLMEs Morrison has been promoted by
the Kanawha Valley Bank of Charleston,
W.Va., to the position of vice president and
trust investment officer.

FRANK M. Youn, III, an attorney in Bir-
mingham, has become a partner in the firm
of Johnson, North, Haskell & Slaughter.
Young is also a co-owner of the Birmingham
Aviation, Inc., a Piper aircraft dealer operat-
ing a full line general aviation base at the
Birmingham Municipal Airport.

After serving in the U. S. Army for three
years, DR. ROBERT M. AUBURN is in the
practice of obstetrics and gyneocology in the
San Buenaventura Medical Clinic in Ven-
tura, Calif. He and his wife, Diane, have

four children.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. A. MICHAEL PHILIPPS,
a daughter, Kara Kiernan, on July 3, 1974.
Philipps is with the brokerage firm of Paine,
Webber, Jackson, and Curtis in Silver Spring,
Md.

NORMAN E, YOUNGBLOOD has been promoted
to the rank of major in the U. S. Army and
is currently at the U. S. Army Command
and Staff College at Ft. Leavenworth.

Dr. MATTHEW H. HULBERT, an assistant pro-
fessor of chemistry at Lehigh University, has
been granted academic leave of absence for
the 1974-75 year. Dr. Hulbert will employ
his leave at the Miami Environmental Re-
search Laboratory of the National Oceanic
and Atmospheric Administration, where he
has accepted a National Research Council
Resident Research Associationship. His area
of professional expertise is electroanalytical
chemistry and chemical oceanography, and
he is a published author in his field.

JoHN N. Furniss, after graduate work at
Duke University, has returned to Memphis
State College in Memphis, where he will
be teaching in the department of English.

1965

JERRY G. CADEN has been named an assis-
tant secretary in the Corporate Trust Divi-
sion of the Administration Section at Bank-
ers Trust Co. in New York. Caden joined
the bank in 1969. He currently attends New
York University Graduate School of Business
Administration.

WILLIAM GRAY BROADDUS, county attorney
for Henrico County, has been appointed to
the board of governors of Christchurch
School. Upon his graduation from Law

 

J. G. Caden, ’65

W. G. Broaddus, ’65

School in 1968, Broaddus served as a law
clerk to Justice Harry L. Carrico of the
Supreme Court of Virginia for two years.
From 1970 to 1973, he served as Assistant
Attorney General of Virginia.

THomas E, STOVER is a practicing attorney in
the firm of Stover, Stover, & Broscious in
Washington, N. J. He and his wife, Sally,
have a one-year-old daughter, Sarah Eliza-
beth.

RICHARD R. KREITLER is now vice president
of White, Weld, & Co., Inc., an investment
banking firm in New York City.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MAUwRICE FLIEss, a
daughter, Katja Marie, on Oct. 8, 1974. The
young lady joins an older brother. The fam-
ily lives in Reston, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Houston L. BELL,
JR., a daughter, Ashley Elizabeth, on Sept.
30, 1974. The family lives in Roanoke.

ROBERT B. Hupson, III, has published a
work entitled “Rational Planning and Or-
ganizational Imperative: Prospects for Area
Planning in Aging.” Hudson is assistant pro-
fessor of politics and social welfare, Heller
Graduate School, Brandeis University. The
work can be obtained from the American
Academy of Political and Social Science
in Philadelphia.

Dr. JOHN R. Burk has been in northeast
India as a consultant to the World Health
Organization. He will serve in the smallpox
education program in Bihar State. Recent-
ly elected to membership in the American
College of Physicians, Dr. Burk will begin
his specialty training in pulmonary diseases
at the Southwestern Medical School in Dal-
las. The Burks have two daughters, and the
family lives in Montgomery.

1967

ANDREW N. Baur has been elected president
and chief executive officer of the Commerce
Bank of St. Louis. He becomes the youngest
president of a downtown bank in St. Louis.
He was formerly vice president of Mercantile
Trust Co. Baur was also elected a director
of the bank. Prior to joining Mercantile
Trust Co. in 1970, he was commercial loan
Officer at the First National Bank of At-
lanta. Baur has been active in numerous
Civic activities.

BENJAMIN B. CUMMINGS, JR. has been ap-

WeL

 

 

PO AO. RRC

 

et

 

 

 

7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

]

 

 

 

nory of the late Sen. than we ¢ could
FE. Stone, who ‘Tecetved™ ba Stone was a

 

 

 

 

Johnson Scholarship fund
passes $25,000 mark

The Lewis Kerr Johnson Commerce Scholarship,
created last year by several of Dr. Johnson’s alumni as
a living tribute to their former teacher, passed the
$25,000 mark in funding this fall and now becomes
one of Washington and Lee’s permanent endowed
honor scholarship funds. Creation of the Johnson
Scholarship was announced in 1973 as a surprise to
Dr. Johnson during a testimonial dinner given for
him on the occasion of his retirement after 40 years
at Washington and Lee. The effort was spearheaded
by a steering committee led by Andrew Lupton, ’68.

The L. K. Johnson Scholarship will be awarded
to a rising junior majoring in business administra-
tion or in business administration/accounting and
will be renewable for the recipient’s senior year. L. K.
Johnson Scholars must have a 3.0 (B) average and
must be planning a career in business; further, they
must possess “those basic characteristics of integrity,
initiative, independence, self-discipline, drive and
leadership” which Dr. Johnson always taught are es-
sential to successful business management. Contri-
butors as of August, 1974, are:

Richard $. Abernethy °72
J. D. Allen ’68
Charles D. Andrews ’71
James S. Apter (J. Scott) ’70
re L. Baber, III °66

. H. Bacon ’33
William S. Baker ’66
Virgil O. Barnard, Jr. ’50
John D. Bassett, III ’59
Andrew H. Baur ’37
James L. Beckner ’68
Sam Bendheim, III ’57
Morris C. Benners ’69
John M. Bernard ’70
Kenneth L. Bernhardt ’66
Carleton Billups, Jr. °71
Alfred T. Bishop, Jr. ‘41
Edward L. Bishop, III ’68
Donald W. Bourne ’51
John I. Bowman, Jr. '53
Richard D. Bradford ’67
Jack H. Breard, Jr. ’61
William D. Bruce ’53
Charles G. Buffum, III ’60
Bruce E. Bussen ’56
J. Stewart Buxton ’36
W. E. Buxton ’40
Donald E. Campbell 48
Darrold A. Cannan, Jr. ’53
William D. Cannon, Jr. '66
C. Howard Capito 68
Richard M. Caplan ‘68
J. Donald Childress ’70
Philander P. Claxton, III ’67
Thomas W. Clyde °71
Madison F. Cole ’71
Frank W. Comer ’38
Charles P. Comly ’72
Robert E. Connell ’50
Charles B. Conner ’42

 

Richard E. Cooke ’43
Roland S. Corning ’65
William H. Craft ’69

R. Tom Crawford ’39
Mrs. Versil Crenshaw
Joseph S. Crowder ’39
George E. Dashiell ’49

G. Richard Day ’41

Peter D. DeBoer 49
Robert C. Devaney 65

H. Ward Dorer ’69

Dan Terrell Dunn, Jr. ’69
John C. Earle ’50
James F. Easterlin ’71

E. Stewart Epley ’49

John D. Eure, Jr. ’64
Mark S. Evans ’70

E. McGruder Faris, Jr. ’51
Harold J. Fischel ’61l
William T. Fleming, Jr. ’69
Joseph H. Frampton ’66
Walter J. Francisco, Jr. ’70
William B. Fray ’55

Don, E. Fryburger ’56
Victor R. Galef ’65

D. E. Garretson °43

David A. Greer, III ’65

F. O. Glenn, Jr. ’39

D. Randolph Graham ’72
Barry A. Greene ’64

K. M. Greene ’67

Douglas D. Hagestad 65
W. Hampton Haislip, III ’46
Lowell D. Hamric ’55
Allen Harberg ’56

David W. Hardee, III ’69
Mr. and Mrs. E. V. Harris
Charles C. Hart ’67

R. O. Harvey, III ’62
Joseph S. Haselden, Jr. '38

 

Richard L. Heard °44
Omer L. Hirst ’36

Paul J.. Holden, Jr. ’38
Samuel B. Hollis ’51
Lawrence E. Honig ’70
John K. Hopkins ’67
Robert L. Hopkins, Jr. ’51
Farris Hotchkiss ’58

C. Royce Hough, III ’59
E. S. Humphreys °44

James D. Humphries, III '66
David L. Hyman ’64
Morton P. Iler °57

Robert M. Jeter, Jr. ‘41
Leon C. Johenning, II ‘66
Miss Copeland Johnson

H. Robert Johnson ’70
Mrs. L. K. Johnson
William Reed Johnston ’61
Kendall C. Jones 57

John H. Keck ’72

Thomas G. Keefe °72

S. Krider Kent, Jr. ’60
Wilmot H. Kidd, III ’64
Walter E. Klaas, Jr. '63
Richard K. Kneipper 65
Lewis A. Knight, Jr. ’72

S. L. Kopald, Jr. '43

W. Haines Lancaster, Jr. ’46
Joseph L. Lanier ’27
William E. Latture ’49

H. Scott Lavery, Jr. ‘66
William F. Leffen ‘48
Ralph E. Lehr ’41

Alan M. LeVine ’69

H. Richard Levy 66
Joseph S. Lewis, IV 59
Robert D. Lewis ’62
Sydney Lewis ’40

Andrew H. Lupton ‘68
Bruce P. Madison °72

G. Michael Malmo, Jr. ’49
K. Douglas Martin '62
Lewis W. Martin °35
Courtney R. Mauzy, Jr. ’61
Samuel M. McAshan, III ’65
E. Philip McCaleb 63
William F. McCorkle '49
Richard W. McEnally ’64
Wiley A. McGehee, Jr. ’46
William D. McHenry ’54
Joseph T. Meals '54
Peyton G. Middleton, Jr. ’59
Mike E. Miles ’68

Burr W. Miller ’49

Clovis W. Moomaw '50
Robert H. Moore, Jr. '44
Kenneth B. Murov "72
Bertram J. Myers '44
Edgar B. Mytrle ’69
William A. Noell, Jr. '64
Charles E. Nolte, III ’58
William J. Noonan, Jr. °43
William C. Norman, Jr. '56
William A. Northcutt, III °63
Staman Ogilvie ’71
Charles C. Owens ‘64 |
James C. Paera ’39

R. Stephens Pannill ’69
George M. Persinger ’51
Jon C. Peterson ’61
Ferdinand Phillips, Jr. ’51
James A. Philpott °45
James A. Philpott, Jr. °72
Mark S. Pisarra ’67

 

 

 

Robert W. Pittenger ’51
Kerry E. Reynolds ’66
Peyton E. Rice 40
Charles B. Richardson °57
Arch W. Roberts ’56
Arthur M. Roberts ’50
David B. Reot '59
William S. Rosasco, III °51
Randolph D. Rouse ’39
Stephen W. Rutledge '62
James S. Sagner ‘62
Ira H. Samelson, Jr. ’58
Elliot S. Schewel °45
Jan J. Schilthuis, Jr. °53
Martin Schmidt, Jr. '70
Thomas A. Scott, Jr. ’48
Richard T. Scully °36
Robert H. Seal '44
William K. Self °39
Philip A. Sellers ’43
Max L. Shapira ’65
Peter H. Sheppard ’72
James G. Sheridan ’50
Robert D. Sherrill ’68
Thomas B. Sherwood ’62
Dane A. Shrallow ’68
Jay A. Silverstein *43
Ronald L. Sklar ’70
James W. Smith ’62
I. Reese Smith ’62
L. Vernon Snyder ’49
Howard L. Steele ’50
Daniel C. Stickley, Jr. ‘53
John W. Stowers °42
Samuel C., Strite, Jr. ’61
Henry M. Strouss, III ’61
J. Frank Surface, Jr. ’60
Hollis C. Taggart °71
Calvert Thomas °38
Newton H. Thompson, III ’72
Philip J. Tissue ’70
Everett Tucker, Jr. ’34
Everett Tucker, III ’72
Garland S. Tucker, III ’69
Jesse W. Turner °48
Martin B. Turpin ’70
United Virginia Bank /
Rockbridge
H. Michael Walker ’63
Robert C. Walker ’42
Augustus B. Walton, Jr. '64
William L. Want ’67
Robert Porter Webb ’70
Donald W. Weir, Jr. ’72
Collier Wenderoth, Jr. '45
Jerry S. Wilbourn ’61
Donald K. Williams ’52
Ernest Williams, III 67
Walter H. Williams, Jr. '49
Sterling W. Winn ’48
W. Harvey Wise ’70
Buckner Woodford, Jr. ’33
Herbert M. Woodward, Jr. ‘41
Daniel S. Wooldridge, Jr. ’51
Robert E. Wyatt ’64
Frank G. Young '66
Willard R. Young, III ‘63

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W rue MCCORMICK LI BR -
WASHINGTON & LEE
Co LEXINGTON VA
24450 ,

RESERVE THE DATES

Spring
Class Reunions

 

 

MAY 9 anp 10, 1975

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of
1925 1935 1950 1960 1965
and the

Old Guard

MAKE A BEELINE TO THE W&L HIVE IN ’75!

 

 

   

