the alumni magazine of washington and lee university APRIL 1977

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 52, Number 3, April 1977

William C. Washburn, °40....0000000.0...000ccccccccccecceccceeeee. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ..................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68..0..0.0..0.00000cccecee. Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel.................... Editorial Assistants
Sally Mann ooo. eeceneee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Historic Lexington ...................00008. ]
The Mimes of Warsaw. ..............0000005 5
Development Program Volunteers ........... 8
East Asian Studies ..................000 0008 10
W&L Gazette ..... cece cee eee eee e eens 13
Telethon 77 oo... ec ccc cece eee es 19
Winter Sports Roundup .................... 20
Chapter News ...............cc cece eeeeeees 22
In Memoriam ................. ccc eeee anes 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

THomas B. BRANCH III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
President

J. THomas Toucuton, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.
Vice President

CHARLES C. STIEFF II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
Treasurer

Witiiam C. WasHpurn, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitip R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DupDLEy, ’58, Richmond, Va.

Epwin J. Fotz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.

Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HOt is, 51, Memphis, Tenn.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.

JERRY G. Soutu, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
ROBERT M. WHITE II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

ON THE COVER: Adaptation of a poster announcing a
performance created by the Pantomime Company of the
Warsaw Chamber Opera for their W&L students, spon-
sored by the University Theatre and the Glasgow En-
dowment Committee. The poster was executed in silk
screen by Thomas J. Ziegler, assistant professor of fine
arts and theatre, and Mary Haycox, who in 1974 was an
exchange student from Hollins College and now does
photography in Lexington. For more on the mimes see

page 5.

 

 

Jay Denny majored in journalism at Washington and Lee, and after
graduation he worked for two years as a reporter for WDBJ-TV in
Roanoke. He became director of Lexington’s Visitor Relations Bureau

wn 1975,

Last year, a visitor to Lexington asked the staff at the city’s
Visitor Center if the city’s streets were being torn up and
replaced with dirt for the Bicentennial. Considering the tur-
moil in the downtown section of Lexington, the question
seemed logical. From the late spring of 1975 until last fall, Lex-
ington’s central business district (CBD) was a veritable obstacle
course for both motorists and pedestrians. And to the gratitude
of everyone concerned, the construction is now complete.

All public utilities (telephone, electricity, cable TV) have
been placed underground—no more overhead wires:
Lexington now has its first storm sewer system; new curbs,
gutters and sidewalks, most of them brick, have been installed;
and all downtown streets have been regraded and repaved.
The total cost for the project and the additional water and sewer
work which the city government has done is more than $1
million.

 

By James R. Denny LIT, ’73

Lexington:

A renewed
sense

of time
and place

Scenes such as this were typical in downtown Lexing-
ton for a year while streets and sidewalks were re-
built, water and sewer mains replaced, and utility
wires buried. This photo was taken at the corner of
Washington and Main Streets, looking in the direc-
tion of WSL from Courthouse Square. The restored
Alexander-Withrow House—with its distinctive dia-
mond-patterned brickwork—is directly across the
intersection; Bierer’s Pharmacy (H. O. Dold’s in days
of yore) is just out of sight on the right.

Lexington’s attention to its image as a destination for
tourists and its concern with the “financial viability” of the
downtown area have been issues of public and private discus-
sion for more than a decade. The approach to these problems
has been cautious—deliberate and slow-paced. As Matthew W.
Paxton Jr., ’49, editor of the Lexington News-Gazette, puts it:
“We want to remain a working community, not a museum.”
Comparisons with Williamsburg are not appreciated in
Lexington.

In the mid-1960s, several organizations began to study
some of the needs of the community. First came a report on the
town’s potential as a stop for tourists, prepared by Thomas Mc-
Caskey of the Colonial Williamsburg Foundation. In McCas-
key’s opinion, Lexington’s potential appeal to the traveling
public was enormous, but undeveloped. He suggested that the
local Chamber of Commerce establish an information center as
a starting point for tours of Lexington, with “trail blazer” signs
directing tourists from the city limits to the center. McCaskey
further suggested that the Chamber develop a brochure to en-
courage overnight stays in the Lexington-Rockbridge area.

With the implementation of McCaskey’s recommendations,

l

Lexington’s tourism program was established. But the report
also pointed to other areas of importance to local residents. Mc-
Caskey suggested that the two blocks of Main Street between
Nelson and Henry Streets—the oldest section of the town—
had potential for restoration. And McCaskey recommended
that the city government consider a mall for the area in its
future planning. Within a year, both suggestions were being
studied.

Paul Delaney, a professor of urban planning at the Univer-
sity of Virginia, was asked to study the mall concept for down-
town Lexington. His recommendations were not adopted for
the simple reason that Lexington couldn’t afford it at the time.
However, discussion of the mall focused attention on the needs
and problems of Lexington’s business district.

About the same time, a group was formed to save some of
the town’s oldest buildings which were steadily decaying.
Historic Lexington Foundation’s first project was the exterior
restoration of the Alexander-Withrow House, one of
Lexington’s few surviving 18th-century structures. Since its
renovation the Withrow House has become the town’s finest
guest house and, more important, it has been returned to the

2

 

tax rolls. To date, HLF has saved four additional buildings and
currently is sponsoring a major restoration of the Stonewall
Jackson House.

The restoration movement brought with it renewed
interest in the city’s history and in what the community had to
offer the tourist.

The Chamber’s privately sponsored tourism program soon
fulfilled its potential. What the program needed was a good
dose of salesmanship, so the Chamber enlisted the help of
Martin & Woltz, a Richmond-based advertising firm, to find
the correct formula.

The Martin & Woltz report, completed in 1971,
recommended many of the same solutions that McCaskey had
outlined six years earlier—the need for a visitor center, well-
marked routes from the city limits to the center, an attractive
brochure, and walking tours of the town. But unlike the earlier
report, the advertising firm’s plan had a price tag—$250,000.
With that money, the report predicted that Lexington could
attract a half million tourists a year.

The Chamber of Commerce couldn’t begin to come up with
that kind of money. Instead it approached the city and county

 

 

governments for funds. The Rockbridge County Board of
Supervisors balked at the suggestion. Lexington City Council
liked the proposal, but realized that the tourist program would
have to be scaled down because of the problem of paying for it.
The answer: enactment of a two per cent tax on prepared food
and on lodging to fund the operations of a department of
visitors relations. The tax went into effect in August 1972, and
the department began operations the following July.

Today, Lexington has a Visitor Center, which is open daily,
three walking tours, and a budget just in excess of $47,000 (the
budget has never exceeded the receipts from the tax). The city
hopes, according to Lexington Mayor (and W&L professor)
Charles F. Phillips, Jr., “to get the maximum exposure for the
financial resources we have.”

About the same time the City Council was discussing the
tourist program, it was continuing to worry about the economic
strength of the city’s central business district. The success of
Historic Lexington Foundation’s restoration — efforts
encouraged the city fathers to conclude that a better, more at-
tractive environment in the downtown would result in addi-
tional private investment.In a sense, the city believed that

Photographs on Pages 2, 3, and 4 are courtesy of Sally Mann.
‘They will appear along with many others in a book on the archi-
tecture of historic Lexington by Royster Lyle, Pamela Simpson,
and Sally Mann, to be published in late summer.

Facing page: The Main and Washington intersec-
tion as it appears today. (Bierer’s is visible at the right
in this photo.) At left: Nineteenth-century “Lower
Main Street” was one of Lexington’s not-so-nice areas
until recently. The old Central Hotel, with its exterior
completely restored by Historic Lexington Founda-
tion, is at the right side of the photo; at the center 1s the
Jacob M. Ruff House, also restored by HLF and now
a local real-estate office; at left edge is the John Ruff
House (Jacob’s father), restored privately and now
divided into an accountant’s office and a specialty
gift-and-antique store. Below left: Restoration of the
Davidson-Tucker House was yet another HLF pro-
ject; the building now houses two real-estate offices.
Below: The Baxter House on Lower Main, across
from the Central Hotel, was restored privately; two
lawyers now have offices there.

 

money invested in the downtown would be returned later
through taxes and a more stable economic base. And, too, the
city realized that improvements to the downtown were overdue

in any event.

For fiscal year 1973-74, John V. Doane, Lexington’s City
Manager, submitted to council a five-year plan for capital ex-
penditures. In that plan he included a modest ($300,000) CBD
project. After discussing the matter, the city decided on the $1
million project. The project was begun in the spring of 1975.

In late October, the end of the street construction was cele-
brated with a day-long festival which began with an antique car
parade and ended with a drawing for a color television set
donated by local merchants. Throughout Restoration Day, old
movies were shown at “old-time prices,” bands played in Court
House Square and a hot dog and soft drink were sold for the
combined price of ten cents (more than 6,200 hot dogs were
sold).

Already the project’s benefits are obvious. Water and sewer
services and fire protection have been improved. The elimina-
tion of overhead wires and traffic signals has enhanced the
downtown’s visual impact dramatically. And, private capital

3

Below: This building next to the Troubadour Theatre on Lower Main Street has
been practically everything over the years; now it’s the White Column Inn, Lex-
ington’s most popular restaurant. Right: Formerly Sheridan’s Livery Stable and
later the Rockbridge Laundry, this building has been restored and is now “Old
Main Street,” an indoor mall of small shops. Right center: The Dold Building,
recently restored, 1s the home of Bierer’s Pharmacy and the offices of two physi-
cians. Bottom right: The Sloan House, once a public embarrassment because
it was so dilapidated, is now a showcase, thanks to restoration by the Rockbridge
Historical Soctety; the city has located its Visitor Center there.

has been invested in the CBD more heavily and much sooner
than most officials had expected.

In this respect, Lexington’s last ten years, filled with
studies, reports and proposals, exemplify the community’s
concern with perhaps its greatest asset—the quiet of an
unspoiled 19th-century college town. That concern was for the
most part responsible for the enactment of an historic zoning
ordinance a few years ago. Paxton believes those regulations
apply “something of a brake to those people who would go just
too far afield in renovation.” And while many communities in
Virginia are spending hundreds of thousands of dollars to
attract the tourist, Mayor Phillips is “not convinced the city
would want a larger [tourist] program,” although he feels the
tourist industry is very important to Lexington in the coming
years.

It’s not that Lexington is opposed to growth or improve-
ments. It is, however, unwilling to leave its future (and its past)
to the whims of chance. Lexington, in the finest example of
Southern sensibility, has a well-defined sense of its own place
and time—a sense of tradition. Its preservation deserves an
unhurried and reasoned consideration.

4

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 

By Jan Shivel

Masters of mime teach students
how to tell tales without words

 

The internationally acclaimed

Pantomime Company of the Warsaw
Chamber Opera visited Washington and
Lee during the winter term. They taught
a six-week class in pantomime and move-
ment technique under the sponsorship of
the Glasgow Endowment Committee.
The company first visited Lexington last
October for two performances and panto-
mime workshops; these were so success-
ful that the Glasgow Committee arranged
to bring the group back for a longer teach-
ing visit.

Their collective years of training and
artistic experience prepared them to
teach much more than pantomime. For
more than a decade the founders of the
company—Rajmund_ Klechot, Stefan
Niedzialkowski, Zdzislaw Starczynowski
and Andrzej Szczuzewski—were
members of the Wroclaw Mime Theatre
directed by Henryk Tomaszewski. During
this association they created many major

 

Zdzislaw and students rehearse for “Marathon,” a
piece based on the ancient Greek and Persian
conflict.

roles and gradually developed a personal
philosophy of pantomime that went
beyond the visual tricks and comic rou-
tines of classic pantomime and concen-
trated instead on serious thought-provok-
ing themes. They formed their own com-
pany in 1975 to share and emphasize their
philosophy through a unique synthesis of
pantomime, dance, and acting. Later they
were joined by Jolanta Kruszewska, the
premiere ballerina of the Wroclaw Opera,
whose classical training further enhanced
the company’s capabilities.

Drawing on this wide artistic back-
ground, the mimes introduced their W&L
apprentices—more than two _ dozen
students and area residents—to many
movement forms and combinations. Al-
though they spoke little English when
they first arrived, they rapidly developed
an expressive blend of English, Polish,
German, and syncopated sounds to com-
municate with their students. But their

 

Jolanta helps Betty Kahn perfect a motion for
“Kaleidoscope.” June Morgan, who wrote the music

for the piece, is behind them.

most effective teaching method was
simply mime. The students had no diffi-
culty understanding and found, as senior
Will Cantler did, that non-verbal teaching
was an “enriching experience.”

Each class was a medley of sounds,
movements, and teachers. Jolanta warm-
ed up the students with ballet exercises.
Next one of the men demonstrated and
taught isolated pantomime movements
and finally a third teacher combined these
movements into improvisations. After an
hour and a half of class, the students com-
pletely exercised their bodies. As one of
them, Betty Kahn, said, “There’s not a
muscle that isn’t toned by the exercise; but
no matter how tired one is at the begin-
ning of class, the feeling at the end is pure
exhilaration!”

The exercise caused dramatic physical
changes in some students. Like an inten-
sive yoga course, the weeks of limbering
activity enabled students to do things they

 

Andrzej shows students, future Persian soldiers,
how to move aggressively.

Photos by Mary Haycox

RO aa 8 RII gif cg <0 Naa ee

had never done before. During a tumb-
ling lesson, Compton O’Shaughnessy, a
local actress, was delighted when she did
the first backbend of her life. Others, like
senior Brian Garr, mastered backward
somersaults.

The mimes were fun to be with and
their students enjoyed taking them to all
kinds of events—lacrosse games, the
Fancy Dress Ball, skiing trips and country
picnics. They reciprocated by inviting
their students to a dinner held at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. Lee Kahn (he 1s as-
sistant professor of drama and director of
the University Theatre). Stefan and Betty
Kahn prepared an army-sized batch of
bigos, a spicy Polish stew, for the guests
who washed it down with lots of red wine
and topped it off with homemade cheese-
cake. Gatherings such as this one created
a close rapport between the Poles and
their students. Their English continued
to improve as they were plied with ques-

Hunt Brown, ’79, (Death) and Will Cantler, ’77,

(one of the two students who portrayed the Marathon

runner) receive instruction.

 

tions about their art, philosophy, and life.
They avidly responded, charming their
listeners by reading their palms, relating
exciting stories of earthquakes endured
in Cairo and meetings with Marcel Mar-
ceau and, most importantly, by telling
them about Poland’s thriving cultural
community.

After a few weeks of class, the mimes
began to design and choreograph two
performance pieces for their apprentices
because, as Andrzej explained, a produc-
tion stimulates development. And the
production did. It provided a means for
the students to fuse the techniques they
had learned into an art form capable of
communicating an idea to an audience.
The idea of communicating in silence was
new to many of the class participants who
were already experienced actors. But they
learned not to rely on verbal delivery. In-
stead they let their bodies and _ faces
become their new instruments of ex-

pression.

Music was added to the two pieces
during the last week of rehearsal. June
Morgan, a student and secretary in the
drama department, composed the accom-
paniment for the first one. Composing for
mime was a new experience for June, who
had majored in musical theatre composi-
tion at Hollins College. “Because mime is
so precise, the music has to fit the piece
perfectly,” she explained. She solved the
problem by timing each action and then
composing the music accordingly.

Although the production was not a
class requirement, all but those with
schedule conflicts took part in it. Despite
the double load of class and rehearsals
and the swift approach of exams, the stu-
dents were still anxious to learn as much
as they could from their energetic
teachers. Freshman David Sorrells was so
involved in the course that when he dis-
located his kneecap and was unable to

 

A scene from the final production. John Hollinger, ’77, as Ares the god of war, is flanked by Greek and
Persian soldiers.

6

The mimes at the Kahns’ home. From
the top are: Zdzislaw, Jolanta,
Andrzej, Stefan and Rajmund.

 

fe a US 2) IL 0 ee RR a Ri eae h9 5. NER aR RS a ee EE RCRA ES Ra GREG NESIE

perform he signed on as the production’s
light and sound technician. In spite of his
foot-to-hip cast, decorated profusely with
colorful Polish and American autographs,
he managed to hoist himself slowly
through the entry hole in the light booth
floor for each rehearsal and performance.

The production ran for three nights at
the end of March. Everyone who saw it,
including the teachers, were impressed by
the students’ rapid development. Stefan
judged the performance on opening
night, “For six weeks alone, this is very
good!” The students’ presentation of both
a comic and dramatic piece was skillful,
sensitive, and convincing. In “Kaleido-
scope” the student actors portrayed a
group of children in a collage of playful
life experiences including star-cross’d
lovers, tightrope-walking, and_ visual
storytelling. “Marathon,” based on the
story of Pheidippides, who ran to Sparta
after the battle of Marathon, was more

 

serious. It followed the runner from a
tumultous battle between the Persians
and Greeks through his lonely run when
he sees visions of his mother and lover, to
his final fight and submission to death.
At the conclusion of the first night’s
performance, the mimes once again
demonstrated their remarkable talents
which had so inspired their students. In
several classical pantomime and dance
sketches, they revealed the roots of their
art but their final piece “Beyond the
Word” was an example of their present
state of development. It was a denuncia-
tion of war and showed how completely
philosophy is interwoven with their ex-
pressive art. Both are equally important.
The mimes encourage their viewers to
participate in their performances by
creating their own meaning from the
images they present. Not everyone is will-
ing to work toward that perception, but if
“only two people in the audience under-

The mother (Compton O’Shaughnessy) appears The Furies survey the battle’s aftermath.

briefly to her son (Dan Scott, ’77) and comforts him.

stand, we are successful,” says Andrzej. By
inviting such a creative response, they en-
courage their spectators to become
creators and artists as well.

An understanding of the mimes’ work
reminds the viewer that life is the same
worldwide. Everyone is unified by similar
fears, hopes, and happiness. The Poles
embody this message and through their
classes, rehearsals, and __ personal
relationships they taught their students to
break from isolation, to recognize the kin-
ship between men, and to remind others
of that kinship. Their mastery of panto-
mime, a universal language, qualifies
them for such an undertaking.

The rare opportunity to see and meet
the mimes was made possible by the
efforts of Lee Kahn, who saw them per-
form six years ago while on sabbatical in
Poland. He never forgot them and en-
couraged the Glasgow Endowment

Committee to sponsor them.

 

RAINS LENA NAY HSI IL I TE AT RR RIN OR ER SN

Development Program Volunteers

On Washington’s Birthday in 1972, Washington and Lee University announced
the most ambitious development program in its history. The first objective of the
program was to raise $36 million in annual support and in capital funds for con-
struction and endowment. The Achievement Council, headed by John M.
Stemmons of Dallas, carried out the task. And by December 31, 1976, nearly $37.5
million had been raised.

The council was composed of the chairmen of the Alumni and Parents Funds
during the period, members of the Board of Trustees and of the Alumni Board of
Directors, alumni and friends who served with members of both boards, chairmen
of the Robert E. Lee Associates, and chairmen of the Estate Planning Council. The
Council worked through seven standing solicitation committees: Alumni, Law
Alumni, Parents, Foundations, Corporations, Friends, and Washington and Lee
Faculty and Staff.

For four years, the Achievement Council went about the satisfying process of
asking members of the Washington and Lee family as well as foundations and
corporations to support the University as generously as possible. Their message was
relatively simple: supporters were asked to give first priority to generous gifts
through the annual giving program; then if they could consider a capital gift in the
range of five to six figures, without disturbing their annual giving, the Achievement
Council asked to assist them in consideration of such a gift; and finally the Council
worked to encourage all Washington and Lee people to make the University a part of
| their estate plans.

Listed here are the names of those who served on the Achievement Council from
1972 through 1976. The list of the hundreds of dedicated volunteers who served as
class agents in the Alumni, Parents, and Estate Planning programs is not carried
here because of its long length. But the omission in no way indicates a lack of appre-
ciation for the important and effective jobs they did annually for Washington and
Lee.

ANNUAL GIVING/
LEE ASSOCIATES

ACHIEVEMENT COUNCIL/
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

James H. Bierer
Pittsburgh, Pa.

David Cayer
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Edwin J. Foltz
Philadelphia, Pa.

J. Carter Fox
West Point, Va.

Robert A. Hemm
New York, N.Y.

W. Hayne Hipp
Greenville, S.C.

W. Martin Kempe
Orange, Va.

Frank G. Kumpuris
Little Rock, Ark.

Richard T. Scruggs
Birmingham, Ala.

Calvert Thomas
New York, N.Y.

Richard H. Turrell
New York, N.Y.

John H. Van Amburgh
Dallas, Tx.

 

 

Cyrus V. Anderson
Pittsburgh, Pa.

Thomas D. Anderson
Houston, Tx.

John W. Ball
Jacksonville, Fla.

Clay J. Berry, Jr.
Ft. Worth, Tx.

Joseph E. Birnie
Atlanta, Ga.

Joseph C. Broadus
New York, N.Y.

Thomas H. Broadus
Knoxville, Tenn.

Frank C. Brooks
Baltimore, Md.

J. Stewart Buxton
Memphis, Tenn.

Edmund D. Campbell
Washington, D.C.

Charles F. Clarke, Jr.
Cleveland, Ohio

T. Hal Clarke
Atlanta, Ga.
John L. Crist, fr.

Charlotte, N.C.

 

Rodolph B. Davenport III
Chatanooga, Tenn.

Richard A. Denny, Jr.
Atlanta, Ga.

Arthur M. Doty
Pittsburgh, Pa.
E. Waller Dudley
Alexandria, Va.

Thomas C. Frost, Jr.
San Antonio, Tx.

John Franklin Hendon
Birmingham, Ala.

Edwin Hyde
Richmond, Va.

David T. Johnson
Pensacola, Fla.

H. Reed Johnston
Sarasota, Fla.

George R. Jones
Dallas, Tx.

Joseph Merrick Jones, Jr.
New Orleans, La.

S L Kopald, Jr.
Memphis, Tenn.

Joseph L. Lanier
West Point, Ga.

L. Addison Lanier
Cincinnati, Ohio

H. Gordon Leggett, Jr.
Lynchburg, Va.

Sydney Lewis
Richmond, Va.

Charles P. Lykes
Tampa, Fla.

Joseph T. Lykes, Jr.
New Orleans, La.

Frank Markoe, Jr.
Morris Plains, N.].

James Bland Martin
Gloucester, Va.

E. Michael Masinter
Atlanta, Ga.

Lewis A. McMurran, Jr.
Newport News, Va.

A. Stevens Miles
Louisville, Ky.
Edwin A. Morris

Greensboro, N.C.

Thomas W. Moses
Indianapolis, Ind.

William J. Noonan, Jr.
Pensacola, Fla.

E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.
Newtown, Pa.

J. Alvin Philpott
Lexington, N.C.

 

J. William Robinson
Atlanta, Ga.

Isadore M. Scott
Philadelphia, Pa.

Richard T. Scruggs
Birmingham, Ala.

Leon F. Sensabaugh
Lexington, Va.

Edgar F. Shannon, Jr.
Charlottesville, Va.

James D. Sparks
Monroe, La.

A. A. Sproul
Staunton, Va.

John M. Stemmons
Dallas, Tx.

Calvert Thomas
New York, N.Y.

John Newton Thomas
Richmond, Va.

John Bell Towill
Augusta, Ga.

Frederick G. Uhlmann
Chicago, Ill.

Fred M. Vinson, Jr.
Washington, D.C.

John W. Warner
Washington, D.C.

Jonathan W. Warner
Tuscaloosa, Ala.

W. Temple Webber, Jr.
Houston, Tx.

Sherwood W. Wise
Jackson, Miss.

ALUMNI BOARD

Upton Beall
Tyler, Tx.

William P. Boardman
Columbus, Ohio

Thomas B. Branch III
Atlanta, Ga.

Philip R. Campbell
Tulsa, Okla.

A. Christian Compton
Richmond, Va.

Albert D. Darby, Jr.
Cumberland, Md.

Samuel C. Dudley
Richmond, Va.

Edwin J. Foltz
Philadelphia, Pa.
Richard D. Haynes

Dallas, Tx.
Marion G. Heatwole
Pittsburgh, Pa.

William H. Hillier
Chicago, Il.

Vernon W. Holleman, Jr.

Washington, D.C.

Samuel B. Hollis
Memphis, Tenn.

C. Royce Hough III
Winston-Salem, N.C.

Theodore M. Kerr
Midland, Tx.

Courtney R. Mauzy, Jr.
Raleigh, N.C.

J. Peter G. Muhlenberg
Wyomissing, Pa.

Emil C. Rassman
Midland, Tx.

Beauregard A. Redmond
New Orleans, La.

Jerry G. South
San Francisco, Calif.

Charles C. Stieff II
Baltimore, Md.

J. Thomas Touchton
Tampa, Fla.

Everett Tucker, Jr.
Little Rock, Ark.

ESTATE PLANNING

Martin P. Burks
Roanoke, Va.

Edwin A. Morris
Greensboro, N.C.

STAFF ASSOCIATES

Upton Beall
Tyler, Tx.

William P. Boardman
Columbus, Ohio

Thomas B. Branch III
Atlanta, Ga.

J. H. DeJarnette
Richmond, Va.

John S. R. Schoenfeld
Washington, D.C.

Adrian Williamson, Jr.
Little Rock, Ark.

Clark B. Winter
Garden City, N.Y.

 

Richard H. Turrell
Short Hills, NJ.

Robert M. White II
Mexico, Mo.

 

Washington and Lee is indebted to many people for the success of the first por-
tion of its development program.

Of the total of almost $37.5 million raised, 60.5 per cent came from the gifts of
alumni. Like all educational institutions, W&L is dependent to a significant degree
upon the loyalty and support of its alumni. But it is fortunate to have an unusually
large and dedicated number who acknowledge a debt to their alma mater for the
part it played in shaping their successful careers. Many of these alumni have
performed leadership roles in the development campaign as trustees, members of
the Achievement Council and Alumni Board of Directors, or volunteer workers in
the annual giving campaigns.

Washington and Lee also owes a debt of gratitude to the many warm and en-
thusiastic friends—parents, other individuals, foundations, corporations—who
supported the campaign so generously.

On behalf of the University and its trustees, I would like to extend again to all of
these supporters our most sincere thanks.

E. MARSHALL NUCKOLS Jr.
Rector
Board of Trustees

Cited past benefactions—from Washington to duPont—have created a false
sense of Washington and Lee’s fiscal condition. The mere fact that its sons are
spread afar makes communications difficult. The greatest accomplishments of the
Achievement Council have been to disseminate truth about the University’s needs
and to develop closer communication.

Benefactions of parents and friends have been magnificent. The trustees have
been both generous and faithful. The Alumni Board of Directors has been superb in
its development of annual sustentation which is truly the life’s blood of any institu-
tion. The Estate Planning Council has planted seeds that will mean much to future
harvests, and the Staff Associates program has proven to be a very effective tool.
The staff has been faithful and hard working. The President of the University is
truly the shining star in the success of the program. No institution has a greater and
more dedicated advocate. General George from atop the College and Marse Robert
in his crypt today smile upon the sons of the University. Let this never cease to be.

JOHN M. STEMMONS
Chairman
Achievement Council

WOOL 1s a major center
for East Asian studies

Quietly and carefully, Washington
and Lee in the past several years has
become an important center for Asian
studies—with the establishment of
extensive course offerings in Chinese,
Japanese, and other non-Western fields:
exchange, study-abroad and summer-
study programs in China, Hong Kong
and Taiwan; development of major
Oriental art and library collections on
campus; and—just this winter—adoptior.
of a new interdepartmental major in East
Asian Studies.

In an important sense, the father of
Asian studies at W&L is Dr. William W.
Pusey III, who began work on the pro-
gram six years ago, almost the moment he

 

stepped down.as Dean of The College.
Though his own fields of teaching are
German and Russian language and
literature (he is S. Blount Mason
Professor of German), he recognized two
things about China and America. The
first was that recent changes in the nature
of relationships between the countries
demanded that American college
students be offered the opportunity to de-
velop a greater and more sophisticated
knowledge and understanding of the his-
tory and culture of both mainland China
and Taiwan.

The second was that Washington and
Lee already had on hand many of the key
ingredients for an Asian studies program.
In 1967 the University had received the

10

 

ah :

ORE

NY

Ee) SS ae wad Soe

\

“a
: EAST ASIAN STUDIES

WASHINGTON ¢ LEE UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

 

 

Cover of Washington and Lee’s
East Asian Studies brochure

majestic Reeves Collection of 18th- and
19th-century Chinese export porcelain,
which in the early ’70s was already well on
its way to becoming recognized as one of
the most important study collections of its
kind in the United States. In 1968, I-
Hsiung Ju, a native of China and an inter-
nationally regarded artist, had joined the
W&L faculty as artist-in-residence; two
years later, Dr. Harold C. Hill, formerly
supervisor of Chinese language
instruction for the Defense Department
and a sinologist of broad accomplish-
ment, joined the faculty too. Dr. Charles

W. Turner, a long-time member of the
history department whose credentials in-
cluded postdoctoral work in far Eastern
studies at four universities including Ox-
ford and Stanford, had been teaching
courses in Asian history for several years.

What was principally required now was
to develop and expand those unique re-
sources into a coherent, disciplined
academic program.

Dr. Pusey’s project received its biggest
boost in 1973, when the Mary Reynolds
Babcock Foundation of Winston-Salem,
N. C., announced a $30,000 grant to
W&L’s then-brand-new Asian studies pro-
gram for faculty and library-resource
development and to support a visiting lec-
turer series.

On-campus course offerings were ex-
panded gradually, as new teachers with
extensive educational backgrounds in Far
Eastern fields were added to the faculty—
Dr. Minor L. Rogers in the religion de-
partment in 1972; Dr. John R. Handel-
man in politics a year later; Dr. Roger B.
Jeans in Asian history a year after that.

More than two dozen _ full-credit
courses are now part of the undergradu-

 

ate curriculum—two years (four terms) of
Chinese and two years of Japanese lan-
guage, both of which can be followed by ad-
vanced “directed study” courses; two
courses in East Asian civilization, one in
modern Chinese history, and = an
advanced seminar in modern East Asian
history; a survey of Chinese literature in
translation and a similar course in

 

Japanese literature; three survey and
seminar courses which inquire into the
cultural forces that have been important
in the development of the Far East (one in
Buddhism, one in Japanese art, literature
and religious thought, and one in the
major religious traditions of Asia);
separate courses examining post-World
War II politics and governmental systems
in both China and Japan; and several
courses, both studio and seminar, in
Chinese art, including Prof. Ju’s popular
course in the techniques of Chinese brush
painting, using authentic methods and
traditional tools.

The new East Asian Studies major in-
corporates course requirements in one of

 

the languages; history; religion; politics;
art, and comparative literature.

At the same time the expansion of on-
campus opportunities was occurring,
study-abroad opportunities were being
extensively developed as well, and several
innovative programs are now offered in
Asia. During the six-week Spring Term,
students—whether Asian Studies majors
or not—can study in Taiwan at the
College of Chinese Culture or in Japan at
a number of leading universities and cul-
tural institutions there. In addition, W&L
and Chung Chi College, a division of the
University of Hong Kong, have instituted
a full-year exchange program under
which one or two students from each

 

I-Hsiung Ju, artist-in-residence, displays scroll
painting given to WSL this spring by Chinese
government and National Museum of H astory in
Taiper.

school spend their junior year at the
other. And just this spring, the faculty ap-
proved W&L’s first full-credit summer
Study-abroad course: a 10-week pro-
gram in Taiwan, directed by Dr.Hill
(who succeeded Dr. Pusey as director of
the East Asian Studies program last fall),
and subsidized by a generous grant speci-
fically for the purpose from a Chinese in-
dustrialist, Sung-hsiung Hung.

In addition, W&L is one of 60 presti-
gious colleges and universities in the
United States selected by the Henry A.

Drawings by I-Hswung Ju

Luce Foundation to participate in a multi-
million-dollar postgraduate Asian studies
program. The Luce Fellowships are
awarded specifically to students and
alumni; who are not Asian specialists or
international affairs experts, favoring
instead those whose education has been in
other fields. The Fellowships permit a full
year of generously subsidized study and
first-hand research in Asia. (Alumni of
the participating colleges remain eligible
to apply for Luce Fellowships as long as
they are under 30; information on the
program is available from Dr. Robert W.

XD |
f — Vie

 

McAhren, Associate Dean of The Col-
lege.)

Interest in the W&L program and its
resources has even come from Asia itself.
In 1975 the Rotary Club of Taipei, for in-
stance, made a gift of more than 1,100
handsome books on _ Chinese art,
literature, culture and history; that collec-
tion has become the nucleus of a special
Asian studies collection. In China, where
Chinese porcelain is hardly unknown, the
Reeves Collection has generated
considerable interest, notably through
articles in the Chinese press.

Perhaps the most gratifying single
event since the program began, however,
occurred this spring—when the National
Museum of History in Taipei made a gift
of 33 original paintings and 26 reproduc-
tions of Chinese artifacts to Washington
and Lee, and the Ambassador to the
United States from the Republic of China,
Dr. James C. H. Shen, visited the campus
for two days to make the formal presenta-
tion.

Included in the Chinese museum’s

11

East Asian Studies

 

gift to W&L are 22 scrolls of brush-paint-
ings, four oils, three watercolors and four
graphic designs. The reproduction items
include 10 additional scrolls of paintings
by early Chinese masters, eight pieces of
porcelain, four ceramics and four replicas
of ancient Chinese bronze figures. Some

 

of the reproductions are old enough to be
antiques themselves; one, for instance, 1s
two centuries old: an 18th-century repro-
duction of a 14th-century Ming Dynasty
vase.

The gift to W&L was paid for by a
special appropriation to the museum
from the Republic of China’s education
ministry. The director and staff of the Na-
tional Museum worked overtime without
pay to assemble and pack the collection,
according to Prof. Ju, who made the
arrangements for it last year when he was
in Taiwan.

Ambassador and Mrs. Shen were the
guests of honor at a banquet on campus;
he and President Huntley participated in
the presentation ceremony; the Shens set
a wreath at the Recumbent Statue of
Robert E. Lee; they spent the night in the
Lee House. (They had been introduced to
W&L and its Chinese program three years
earlier, when they were guests at the
black-tie premiere Bicentennial exhibi-
tion of 200 selected pieces from the
Reeves Collection.)

In the words of the city of Lexing-
ton’s official proclamation of welcome to
the Shens, their visit—and the gift—
contribute not only toward a “new ap-
preciation and admiration of the heritage
and sublime culture of China,” but also
enhance Washington and Lee’s growing
reputation as “an important center for
Chinese studies.”

12

 

Amb. and Mrs. James C. H. Shen were special guests at formal ceremony marking presentation of Chinese
art objects to WSL. With them is President Huntley.

 

Reproduction of a Ming dynasty vase (left) and a number of other ceramic pieces were among the 59 items
presented by the National Museum to Washington and Lee.

el gazette

 

W&L men take trophy
in business competition

A team of five Washington and Lee
business administration majors, oper-
ating as the “Toddler Transport Corp.,”
took national first-place honors this win-
ter in the annual Intercollegiate Busi-
ness Game competition sponsored by
Emory University.

The W&L “businessmen” outper-
formed teams from 29 other colleges and
universities to capture the competition
trophy. “Toddler Transport” not only
won first place in its own industry during
the initial round, but also took first place
among five industry categories in the final
competition.

Members of the team were John D.
Rosen of Kansas City, “president” of the
baby-stroller and carseat company;
Robert R. Campbell of Towson, Md., vice

president for marketing; Rand J.
Krikorian of Whitefish Bay, Wisc., vice
president for finance; Timothy R.

Vaughan of Dallas, vice president and
comptroller; and Scott A. Carlson of
Tiverton, R.I., vice president for produc-
tion and the team’s computer wizard. Dr.
Joseph Goldsten, associate professor of
administration, was advisor to the team.

In the Intercollegiate Business Game,
changing economic and business condi-
tions are simulated by computer in ways
that can—in part—be predicted by tech-
niques of good management. The better
the management, the better the com-
pany’s performance.

But the computer also injects unpre-
dictable events and developments into the
game—strikes and natural catastrophes,
for instance—of the same kind real busi-
nessmen encounter in the real business
world.

The master computer compressed
three years of business operations into six
weeks. Data about market conditions were
sent to W&L and the other participating
colleges by teletype, and each team sent its
decisions back to the computer at Emory.

For purposes of the game, the 30
teams were divided into five industries.
Each firm began with a dismal economic
picture. The W&L case was typical: the
students were given responsibility for a
firm which had lost money the two pre-
ceding years.

Award-winning management team of “Toddler Transport”: Left to right standing, Dr. Joseph Goldsten,

     

John Rosen, Scott Carlson, and Rand Krikorian; sitting, Bob Campbell and Tim Vaughan.

By the end of the game, though, the
W&L team had turned the firm around
dramatically, overcoming market
fluctuations and_ surprise problems
thrown at them (and at their competition)
by the computer. “Toddler Transport”
stock increased 500 per cent in market
value; the company had the best earnings
record of any firm in the baby-buggy in-
dustry; and team members were so confi-
dent of their market posture that they
even tried to take over one of their com-
petitors which was still losing money.

For the final round of the competition
in Atlanta last month, each team was re-
quired to prepare an analysis of its busi-
ness strategy and philosphy, then defend
both before a panel of real-life corpora-
tion executives and Emory business pro-
fessors and graduate students. The ses-
sions consisted of a 15-minute presenta-
tion and 15 minutes of questions from the
panel.

This turned out to be a W&L strong
point. Said the game’s head judge after-
wards: “The Washington and Lee team
rated high because of its familiarity with
the economy, the thoroughness of its
presentation, and its ability to handle
questions from the judges. The fact that
each member of the team participated—
instead of just one or two—also counted
in the W&L team’s favor.”

Dr. Goldsten was delighted with the
way the W&L “businessmen” had per-
formed. “Their enthusiasm — and
involvement were limited only by the fact
that there are just 24 hours in a day,” he
said. “They did all the work themselves. I
got them together in the beginning to give
them an idea of what the game would be
like, but from then on they made the de-
cisions and they chose their techniques.”

The team began work in December,
putting in almost 40 hours a week on the
project. Toward the end, the game took
more than 50 hours a week—and all in
addition to the students’ regular classes.

“The game is a fabulous learning
experience,” says Dr.  Goldsten.
“Students are allowed to make mistakes—
the same mistakes made in the real busi-
ness world every day—and to learn from
those mistakes as well as from their
successes.”

Firm president Rosen agrees. The
game gives “painless but practical experi-
ence in making business decisions,” he
says. “It’s a chance to test what you’ve
learned, to apply it to the real world.”

And the best part, according to mar-
keting vice president Campbell, is that
“there’s no financial risk, either.”

Washington and Lee has participated
in the business game for several years, but
this was the first time a W&L firm has

13

come in better than second in its industry.
With a perhaps-understandable show of
pride, the 1977 team members attribute
their success this year to near-perfect
teamwork—and to the simple fact that
“we were very good.”

 

Going ’round with
W&L’s resident poet

A new collection by Dabney Stuart,
Washington and Lee’s poet-in-residence,
has just been published by Louisiana State
University Press.

Round and Round: A Triptych, Stuart’s
fifth published volume, is divided into
three sections or “panels,” as they are
called. The first, “Ground Speed,”
contains variations on the traditional
forms of the ballad and the song. The
ballads are spoken by a variety of charac-
ters “invented for the occasion,” Stuart
says—a clown, a draftee, a judge, the Jolly
Green Giant, and “others of equal oppor-
tunity.” Three characters—The Fool,
The Poet and The Slut—share the songs,
separately at first, then variously to each
other.

The second panel, “Fair,” focuses ona
series of characters and places associated
with carnivals. The verse forms are,
according to Stuart, “to the eye much
freer than those in the first panel; they
are, however, as tightly controlled, after
their peculiar requirements.”

The final panel, “Data Processing,”
contains the most recently written of his
poems—a series of “lessons” (in na-
tionalism, commerce, despair and “other
fruitful subjects”) interspersed with a
series of poems, again through invented
characters (a secretary, a housewife, a
laborer), with “certain recognizably
‘modern’ situations.” A recurrent
authority figure, the poet notes, “gets the
last word, invariably grim, in each
‘lesson’.”

Stuart’s previous volumes are The
Other Hand (1974), published by LSU;
Friends of Yours, Friends of Mine (also 1974),
a collection of poems for children,
published by Rainmaker Press; and A
Particular Place (1969) and The Diving Bell
(1966), both from Alfred A. Knopf.

LSU is planning to publish a scholarly
study by Stuart of Vladimir Nabokov’s
fiction next year; he has been working on
it for anumber of years, and several of the
chapters have appeared in various
journals already. Grants from the Univer-
sity’s John M. Glenn Fund have support-
ed both that research and much of
Stuart’s writing for Rownd and Round.

In addition to his teaching—he is a
professor of English—Stuart travels ex-

14

 

Poet Dabney Stuart
tensively to give readings; this year he has
been to Auburn, Hampden-Sydney,
Florida International College, four
colleges in Georgia, and the University of
Michigan (“before Ford”).

Round and Round is available at the
W&L Bookstore at $4 postpaid in paper,
$5.50 postpaid for the hardbound version.
Both prices reflect the 10 per cent alumni dis-
count and include shipping.

 

Education seminar
for journalists

All aspects of education in Virginia—
from kindergarten to graduate school—
received high-level examination during a
two-day seminar on campus in early
March. The Department of Journalism
and Communications sponsored the
conference to offer journalists a unique
Opportunity to gain substantive and
useful background on the many complex
problems confronting education today.
The overall aim was improvement of
media coverage of a subject of major
public interest.

The participants included the top
echelon of Virginia’s educational leader-
ship and the journalists who cover educa-
tion for the state’s newspapers and radio
and television stations.

A session on standards, finances, and
controls in the public schools was con-
ducted by Dr. William Bullock, professor
of education at the College of William and
Mary; Dr. John DeVogt, professor of ad-
ministration at W&L and _ legislative
committee chairman of the Virginia
School Boards Association; David
Johnson, executive director of the Vir-
ginia Education Association, and Vincent

 

favorite, personal memory of him.

of our nation.”

 

A Tribute to Dean Gilliam

The April 1977 issue of Change, a magazine devoted to higher education,
contains a tribute to the late Dean Frank J. Gilliam and by extension a tribute to
the kind of education offered by Washington and Lee. It appears in a profile on
Earl McGrath, age 74, U. S. Commissioner of Education under President
Truman, president of the University of Kansas City, chancellor of Eisenhower
College, long-time professor of higher education, Teachers College, Columbia
University, director of the Higher Education Center, Temple University, until
recently a senior consultant to the Lilly Endowment, and now director of the pro-
gram of liberal studies at the University of Arizona.

The article notes that McGrath’s hero is Robert E. Lee and says: “For nearly
four decades he has been preaching the gospel that the prime objective of higher
education should be teaching; that the welfare of the student should be upper-
most; that the development of character and a responsible citizenry are more im-
portant than mere transmission of knowledge—and that all this flourishes best in
the intimate atmosphere of the small liberal arts college.”

The article closes with this quote from McGrath: “We were talking about Lee a
while ago. You know Lee ended his life as president of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, down in Lexington, Virginia. I was reading the alumni magazine from
that school not long ago and there was an article about an old dean down there,
Dean Gilliam, who had just died. He had seen three generations of students cross
that campus, not only fathers and sons but grandfathers and grandsons, and he
knew them all. He was a stern man, a man of principle, like Lee himself; but also,
like Lee, he was a humane man, and he was concerned for the individual student,
as Lee was concerned for the enlisted man. Each of his students had some

“Probably no one ever heard of Dean Gilliam 100 miles from that campus,
and yet to me he is what liberal education should be about. To me, his was a
worthwhile life, a life that had some meaning, purpose, and impact on the future

Reprinted by permission from Vol. 9, No. 4 of Change magazine, New Rochelle, N. Y.

 

 

 

Panelists at a session of the education seminar for journalists are Hampden Smith, coordinator and W&L
journalism professor, Dr. William Bullock, Vincent Thomas, David Johnson, and Dr. John DeVogt.

Thomas, chairman of the State Board of
Education.

At a dinner meeting, Ronald Brown,
professor of law at William and Mary’s
Marshall-Wythe School of Law, discussed
several law suits brought against the
public school system for such offenses as
failure to provide adequate instruction
and reverse discrimination in hiring.

The second-day panel dealt with the
competition and diversity in higher
education. The panelists were Carl Bain,
vice chairman of the State Board of
Community Colleges; Dr. Ronald
Carrier, president of Madison College;
Dr. Jay Chronister, professor of educa-
tion at the University of Virginia; Dr.
Gordon Davies, director of the State
Council of Higher Education; Dr. Dana
Hamel, chancellor of the State
Department of Community Colleges, and
Robert E. R. Huntley, president of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Journalism students attended the
seminar as well as the participating pro-
fessional reporters. Members of a report-
ing class covered the event, which was also
taped and televised over Cable Nine, the
University’s television outlet.

 

Anonymous gift funds
geology speaker series

Prominent geologists visited
Washington and Lee during the winter as
participants in a speaker series on Pre-
cambrian geology—the period beginning
with the formation of the earth 4 billion
years ago and extending until 600 million
years ago. The Precambrian presents
problems for geologists because none of
the present theories apply to that era

when the earth was drastically forming
and changing. The origins of the atmos-
phere, hydrosphere, continents, and life de-
mand new explanations and hypotheses,
and the visiting speakers provided them.

The program, described by Dr. Fred-
erick Schwab, professor of geology and
coordinator of the series as “almost un-
precedented at the undergraduate level
because of the reputation of the speak-
ers,” was made possible by an anonymous
gift from an alumnus whose goal is to
benefit students and faculty directly and
to develop the reputation of the W&L
geology department.

Tom Mutch of Brown University, overall
scientific director of the Viking Expedi-
tion to Mars, sought to explain earth’s
early history through what is known about
our neighboring planets and their moons.
He maintained that all these bodies and
earth developed simultaneously until a
time when the extraterrestrial bodies
stopped developing and the earth con-
tinued to evolve. Studies have revealed
that the surfaces of our moon, Mercury,
Venus, Mars and its two moons are all
heavily cratered. The earth also
underwent a similar episode of cratering,
but evidence of it has since been
destroyed by weathering and mountain
building.

Robert Hargraves of Princeton
University, research director of the Vik-
ing Expedition, theorized that the
continents developed from a thin, globe-
encircling crust covered by a shallow sea
Underlying and overlying layers were
added—mostly by volcanic activity—and
eventually the continents emerged.

William Fyfe, a geochemist from the
University of Western Ontario, credited
volcanic activity with helping to create

both the atmosphere and hydrosphere.
Both developed from the _ earth’s
expulsion of gases and water vapor. The
only ingredient lacking was oxygen, but it
was later produced by primitive acquatic
plant-like organisms that helped prepare

conditions for future animal
development.
Several other speakers discussed

specific areas in the Precambrian: Alan
Goodwin of the University of Toronto,
director of a research group investigating
the Canadian shield (the area of North
America in which most Precambrian
rocks are exposed), summarized the igne-
ous and metamorphic history of the Pre-
cambrian. Francis Pettijohn of Johns
Hopkins University, a leading authority
and author on sedimentary rocks, spoke
on early Precambrian sedimentary rocks.
Tuzo Wilson of the University of Toron-
to, the director-general of the Ontario
Science Center and one of the originators
of the now widely-accepted geologic
theory of plate tectonics, coordinated that
theory with Precambrian history.

A. Krishna Sinha, a geochronologist
from Virginia Polytechnic Institute and
State University, described methods,
specifically radiometric age dating of
rocks, used to explore early earth history
more accurately.

The program included two-part
lectures (afternoon and evening), dinner
meetings and post-lecture discussions. It
was Offered for credit and was also open
to the public.

 

Faculty and staff
activities

Gerald J. Darrell, manager of Evans
Dining Hall at the University since 1970,
has been given additional management
responsibilities for the Cockpit, W&L’s
student rathskeller. Darrell, who had six
years’ experience in commercial restau-
rant management before coming to
Washington and Lee, succeeds the late
Marshall Sumner. Sumner was killed in
an automobile accident while driving on
Interstate 81 to work in February.

W&L’s_ sculptor-in-residence, Isabel
Mcllvain, had her premiere New York ex-
hibition in April. A dozen of her life-size
infants’ head sculptures and half-life-size
sleeping adult figures were on display for
three weeks in a one-woman show at the
Gallery 4 X 10.

President Robert E. R. Huntley has been
re-appointed to the Philadelphia regional
selection panel of the President's com-
mission on White House Fellowships. As a
member of that panel, Huntley

15

participates in the selection of national
finalists from Delaware, Maryland, Penn-
sylvania, Virginia and West Virginia.

Cherie Wright, placement director in
the School of Law, has been named chair-
man of the National Association for Law
Placement national convention in New
Orleans this June.

Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of
economics, was installed this spring as
president of the Virginia Association of
Economists. Phillips continues to travel
widely as a speaker (he is also national
president of the economics honor society,
Omicron Delta Epsilon), a panelist at pro-
fessional symposia, and consultant in the
field of government regulation of utili-
ties.

Charles T. Boggs, assistant philosophy
professor, was the guest speaker this win-
ter at a student-faculty colloquy at Hobart
& William Smith Colleges. Boggs’ topic
was “Morality, Memory and Conscience.”

David R. Novack, assistant sociology
professor, delivered a research paper en-
titled “Community Control: Resident Per-
spectives” this spring to the annual meet-
ing of the Eastern Sociological Society.
Novack’s paper examined grass-roots
views toward the politically sensitive issue
of local control in three New York City
neighborhoods, Ocean Hill-Brownsville,
Bedford-Stuyvesant, and South Bronx.

Lawrence D. Gaughan, professor of law,
delivered a paper entitled “Psychological
Aspects of Attorney Participation in Di-
vorce” at a symposium on therapeutic and
legal aspects of divorce and the family,
sponsored by the American Orthopsy-
chiatric Association in New York this
spring. Gaughan has also led several semi-
nars and delivered a number of lectures
on parent-child relationships and legal
problems this year.

Lee Kahn, assistant drama _ professor
and director of the University Theatre,
was a panelist this spring in a discussion of
plays with nudity in college theatres,
sponsored by the Southeastern Theatre
Conference. Drawing from sshis
experiences as director of Equus and
Changing Room, Kahn discussed cast selec-
tion, rehearsals, and actually staging the
production.

Previously published articles by two
Washington and Lee professors were
chosen this spring for re-publication in
anthologies. Taylor Sanders II, associate
professor of history and University his-
torian, had his 1972 article “The Chang-
ing Face of Historical Preservation in Vir-
ginia” selected for inclusion in a collection
of 24 particularly important or interest-

16

ing articles printed over the past 50 years
in The University of Virginia Newsletter. S.
Todd Lowry, professor of economics, has
two articles in new collections—“Bargain
and Contract Theory in Law and Econom-
ics” in The Economy as a System of Power and
“Lord Mansfield and the Law Merchant:
Law and Economics in the 18th Century”

in The Methodology of Economic Thought,
both just published by Transaction Books.

 

Backus closes out
long printing career

On April 1, Edward F. Backus shut off
his densitometer, laid aside his x-acto
knife, cleaned up his light table, and went
to lunch with his colleagues in the W&L
print shop. It was his last day on the job—
the end of a 3l-year career as a teacher
and all-round printer at W&L—and the
president of the University was there to
greet him and thank him.

At the luncheon, he was honored with
a proclamation of praise signed by Presi-
dent Huntley and other University
officials who had worked closely with him
over the years. In retirement, he leaves
behind him a body of printed matter,
large and small (including many issues of
the Alumni Magazine), that says more
than words can about his talent, self-
demand for high quality, and devotion to
Washington and Lee.

“He makes us look good,” said one
University official whose job it is to design
and layout many of the University’s
printed pieces.

 

A native of Massachusetts, Backus
worked as a printer on newspapers in
Maine and Vermont before joining the
W&L staff in 1946 as a typesetter and
Linotype operator. For 20 years of his
career at W&L, he worked with “hot type”
and old-fashioned letterpress printing
equipment. In 1968, the shop added
offset equipment to keep pace with ad-
vances in printing technology, and
Backus, largely teaching himself, became
a master at preparing metal plates on
which images to be printed are etched
photographically. He also developed
skills in graphic design and often had a
solution when someone came to him ask-
ing, “How am I going to do this?”

Until a few years ago, Backus taught a
class in the principles and techniques of
printing for journalism students. His
forte is printing history, and he has an ex-
tensive collection of early printed pieces.
In 1971, McCormick Library mounted a
display from his collection of 19th-cen-
tury “chapbooks,” the one-penny pre-
decessors of paperback books.

Another of his hobbies is lapidary. He
can turn the most ordinary stone into an
elegant piece of jewelry, lavishing upon it
the same patience and care he applied to
the preparation of printing.

Shoddy work irritates him. His charac-
teristic statement when confronted by an
error or coarseness was, “I'll have to go to
work and fix that.” And somehow he
always did. He and his way of fixing
things will be missed at W&L by everyone
who needs a piece of printing.

 

 

 

 

Edward Charles Tonsmeire, ’32

 

$200,000 gift endows

Honor Scholarship program

A $200,000 gift has been made to
Washington and Lee by an anonymous
benefactor to establish a series of Honor
Scholarships in memory of the late Ed-
ward Charles Tonsmeire, ’32, a promi-
nent Mississippi banker and attorney who
died in 1972.

The Honor Scholarships will be
awarded to W&L’s undergraduates whose
records demonstrate exceptional
character, achievement, and_ personal
promise as well as financial need.

Initially, preference will be given to
students from the original 13 states. The
scholarships will be awarded to entering
freshmen undergraduates. Each
recipient’s scholarship will be renewable
throughout his four years at W&L.

Tonsmeire received his law degree from
Cumberland University in 1935. He serv-
ed four and a half years in the Coast
Guard during World War II as a legal
officer on the staff of Rear Adm. L. W.
Perkins, commander of the 14th Coast
Guard district in the Pacific.

 

Recent visitors
to the campus

—Judge Walter E. Hoffman (a 1930
graduate of the School of Law and recipi-
ent in 1970 of an honorary Doctor of Laws
degree), currently director of the Federal
Judiciary Center and senior judge of U.S.
District Court for Eastern Virginia, pre-
siding judge in the 1973 tax-evasion trial
of former Vice President Spiro T. Agnew,
on the topic “The Role of the Judge in the
Adversary System”;

—Charles Alan Wright, professor of

 

Following graduation from W&L Charles Alan Wright

 

Charles Kuralt

Vincent Bugliosi

law at the University of Texas and then-
President Nixon’s defense attorney in the
Watergate tapes executive-privilege con-
troversy (and Tucker Lecturer at W&L in
1969), for a panel discussion on the
federal court system and several class dis-
cussions and seminars in the School of
Law;

—Merrill D. Peterson, professor of
history on the Thomas Jefferson Founda-
tion at the University of Virginia, on the
topic “Jefferson and Liberty,” at the
annual Phi Beta Kappa Day convocation
this winter;

—Charles Kuralt of CBS News’ “On
The Road” series and more recently a co-
host of the new “Who’s Who” weekly TV
magazine, Randall Meyer, president of
Exxon USA, Vincent Bugliosi, prosecutor:
in the Charles Manson murder trial and
co-author of Helter Skelter, and Bruce
Jenner, 1976 summer Olympic gold

 

Judge Walter E. Hoffman, ’30L

 

 

 

 

 

Randall Meyer

17

 

medal-winner in the decathalon, all part
of the student body’s “Contact” series;

—Jeffrey Hopkins, a specialist in Ti-
betian Buddhism, and Neal Donner, an
authority in Chinese Buddhism, faculty
members at the University of Virginia,
both at W&L for public lectures
sponsored by the Asian Studies Program;

—Jacob Freedman, professor of
geology at Franklin and Marshall College,
on “Trace Elements, Geochemistry, and
Health”.

 

From basketball
to black-tie ball

W&L’s black student community ob-
served Black Awareness Week in March
in a variety of ways—ranging from a
benefit basketball game to a formal dance.
Members of the Student Association for
Black Unity (SABU) sponsored a benefit
basketball game against staff members of
two Lynchburg radio stations, WLGM
and WJJS, with proceeds going to the
Lexington Boys Club. The © social
highlight of the week was the fifth annual
Black Awareness Ball, with Evans Hall
elaborately decorated as the Copa. The
music was provided by Anglo-Saxon
Brown, a highly popular black jazz group
from England.

18

 

Notes from the country

You folk in the big cities probably see
these giant cranes just about every day,
but down here, well, it’s bigger than the
Bonded Fibers smokestack in Buena
Vista. You just never saw anything to beat
it. They kept building it up and up on top
of itself, til finally it was so tall, 116 feet
they say, it practically needs airplane
lights on top. It’s right in the middle of
where that new library’s going to be, and it
keeps them from having to bring in all
these puny little cranes and build roads
and all for them, don’t you see. The driver
sits 80 feet up, and it’s got these arms that
stick out 158 feet end to end, and it picks
things up, buckets of concrete and all,
5,000 pounds if it wants, and swings them
over wherever it has to. It only takes five
and a half feet on every side, and they'll
build the whole building right around it
right up to the very end, and then it comes
apart the same way it got put together,
only in reverse, don’t you see, and then
they finish off the building where the
crane used. to be. (Anna Claytor on our
staff saw it going around one day and
thought they were screwing the library
down into the ground, bless her!)

R.S.K.

 

The 1976-77 Annual Fund Telethon
was the most ever—most callers, most calls
made, most alumni reached, most pledges
made, most money pledged. And by all
accounts it was the most fun.

For the fourth consecutive year, the
Telethon was conducted from the offices
of Wheat First Securities in Richmond.
Gordon Miller, ’45, was again the Tele-

iia cerca " thon vice chairman. On three nights, oe : |
Charlie Pritchard, ’34A, with one of the two bottles March 1-3, 93 alumni plus 10 of their Ber Cummings, ’70L Class Agent, and his wife.

of Jack Daniels he won for the greatest number of wives made 1.075 calls. reached 637
pledges. , ;

 

 

   

fellow alumni, received 452 specific
pledges, amounting to $41,658. The
previous high was $38,985, pledged in
1974-75.

There were prizes—fifths of Jack
Daniels—for those who on each night re-
ceived the largest number of pledges and
raised the largest amount of money. The
winners were J. Win Ivey, ’63A, Gene
Marable, ’44A, Charlie Rowe, ’45A, Stuart
Sanders, ’31A, John Graham, ’67A, and
Charlie Pritchard, ’34A.

The pictures on the page show some-
| — i thing of how it went. | : a _
Mac Squires, ’70A, ’73L, Annual Fund Ellis Zuckerman (left), °49A; Bill Hamilton
vice chairman. (right), 49A.

 

Tom Bruce, ’40A, Class Agent, and his wife. John Graham, ’67A, with the prize he won for Bill Tarrant, ’30A, and his wife.
amount of money pledged.

 

Sam White, SOL, Class Agent. Gene Marable, ’44A, and his wife. Bob Griffith, °52A, Annual Fund vice chairman.

19

By Bill Schnier

Sports Information Director

Winter sports season brings
excitement, honors, promise

 

Junoor guard Pat Dennis, ODAC Player of the
Year, in action against Randolph-Macon.

SS

Verne Canfield, Coach of the Year.
20

 

Senior forward Bob Flint goes in for an easy layup
in the final game against Madison.

After nearly six months of competi-
tion and six All-Americans later, Wash-
ington and Lee’s winter sports season has
come to a close—and what a season it was.

The basketball Generals finished with
a 25-3 overall record, the best in W&L’s
71-year history of basketball. Not only
did the team win the regular-season and
tournament championships in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference (ODAC);
the Generals were also tapped for the
NCAA regional playoffs, for the second
time in three years. Junior guard Pat
Dennis was named the ODAC’s Player of
the Year and was named to Basketball
Weekly’s third All-American team in Divi-
sion III. The Roanoke Valley Sports Club
named him the Outstanding College Divi-
sion Player in Virginia as well.

Coach Verne Canfield was honored as
Conference Coach of the Year, and has
recently also been named District III,
Division III College Coach of the Year by
the National Association of Basketball
Coaches.

And the best part of it all is that eight
lettermen return next year.

Coach Bill Stearns’ swimmers con-
tinue to be big winners too. They finished
the 1976-77 season with a 6-3 record and
had five All-Americans (for a total of 11
All-Americans in two years). Co-Captain
John Hudson achieved All-American
status in four events this winter, for a
three-year personal total of 13. Senior Co-
Captain Tad Van Leer was an All-Ameri-
can in the 50-yard and 100-yard freestyle
events as well as in the 400-yard freestyle
relay. Sophomores Chip Hoke and Keith
Romich and freshman Scott Duff were
also All-Americans.

Like the basketball Generals, Wash-
ington and Lee’s wrestlers swept all the
ODAC honors this year—the conference
title; Coach of the Year, Gary Franke, and
Wrestler of the Year, Jim Crytzer, who
completed his college career as_ the
winningest wrestler in W&L history. In
addition to Jim (at 158 pounds), W&L had
three other All-Conference wrestlers:
Boyd Breeding at 118, Ray Gross at 142,
and Ed Rogers at 150.

 

Swimming team boasting five All-Americans: Sitting, left to right, Drew Pillsbury, Chip Hoke, Scott Duff,
Bob Newcomb, Tad VanLeer, and John Hudson; standing, Manager Howie Sklaroff, Assistant Coach Louis
McFadden, and Head Coach Bill Stearns.

Swimmer Keith Romich in winning pose.

Combining all W&L’s winter sports—
the Generals’ indoor track and field team
ended its abbreviated season with a 2-1
mark—W&cL had an overall record of 45-
14—80 per cent.

And with the arrival of spring, an-
other W&L lacrosse season is underway.
“W &Lacrosse” is regarded as the ultimate
in springtime entertainment—and with
good reason. The stickmen were 7-2 at
press time and were ranked tenth in the
University Division polls. First team All-
American defenseman Tom Keigler and
midfielder Jack Dudley are co-captains of
the 1977 Generals, with second team All-
American Charlie Brown as W&L’s “Mr.
Excitement” in the goal.

As the magazine goes to press, the
baseball Generals are plugging away with
a 2-3 record to date; the golfers are also
even at 1-1; and the outdoor track and
field team is 2-0. The tennis team is on its
way to a highly successful season with a
press-time record of 5-2; mid-season
matches are coming up with Florida,
Tampa, Georgia Tech, William and
Mary and Ohio University.

 

Wrestler Jim Crytzer, most wins in history.

ai

 

Chapter news

 

COURTLAND—James W. Whitehead addressing alumni and friends at the

Walter Cecil Rawls Museum.

 

BIRMINGHAM—Richard S. Abernethy, ’72, chapter president; Felix M.
Drennan III, ’73, treasurer; President Huntley, ’50; David R. Pittman, ’75,
secretary; Charles D. Perry Jr., 73, vice president; Hatton C. V. Smith, ’73,

recruitment chairman.

COURTLAND, VA. A large group
of alumni and friends joined at the Walter
Cecil Rawls Museum in Courtland on Feb.
11 to see an exhibition of the University’s
Reeves Collection of Chinese Export
Porcelain and _ paintings by Louise
Herreshoff. An elegant dinner preceded
the opening of the exhibition. James W.
Whitehead, University treasurer and
curator of the Reeves and Herreshoff col-
lections, spoke on the exhibition. Mrs.
Whitehead and Mrs. Bill Washburn were
also guests. Arrangements for the exhibi-
tion were made by Dick Cossitt, art critic
for the Richmond Times-Dispatch and the
Norfolk Virginian-Pilot, and Charles B.
Rowe, ’64L, a Courtland lawyer.

ATLANTA. Social and __ recruiting
activities were the highlights of the 1976
annual report to the membership. Last
May the chapter joined several other
schools in sponsoring a combo party fea-
turing the Tams. The Annual Alumni
Bowl resulted in a narrow 13-0 victory by
the Wahoos in the football game, but the
Generals showed considerably more class
at the cocktail party. In its efforts to

az

Mrs. Pittman.

recruit students for W&L, the chapter held
two receptions. In August, Bo Dubose,
62, was host at a party for eight incoming
freshmen, their parents, and_ the
chapter’s. directors. Last fall, the
recruitment committee, headed by Matt
Cole, ’71, arranged a dinner for the area’s
high school guidance counselors and
students interested in W&L. Bill Noell, as-
sociate dean of students, spoke and
presented a slide show on campus life. In
recent elections the following officers
were elected: Phil Thompson, ’68, ’71L,
president; Charles Jones, ’66, vice-
president; John Hines, 63, treasurer;
Charles Yates, ’70, secretary.

PALMETTO. Seawells Restaurant at
the Fairgrounds in Columbia, S. C., was
the site of the chapter’s annual business
meeting and stag dinner on Jan. 26. An
enthusiastic group was present to hear
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn give a
brief report on current campus activities.
Phil Grose Jr., 60, outgoing president,
gave an annual chapter report. The
following new officers were elected: T.
Patton Adams IV, ’65, president; John W.

NORTH TEXAS— W&SL Trustee J]. Stewart Buxton, ’36; WSL Trustee
Thomas D. Anderson, ’34; Mrs. Buxton; James D. Sparks Sr., ’32.

 

BIRMINGHAM— James N. Nolan, ’74; Mrs. Nolan; David R. Pittman, ’75;

   

&S

Folsom, ’73, vice president; A. G. (Joe)
Wilson, ’69, secretary-treasurer. Named
to the board of directors were Willoughby
Newton III, ’60, T. B. Bryant III, ’59,
Wilson H. Lear, ’51, Philip G. Grose, ’60,
William H. Townsend, 750, and William
C. Boyd ITI, ’62.

BALTIMORE. The annual midwinter
meeting was held on Jan. 28 at the Mary-
land Club in Baltimore. A highlight was
the establishment by the chapter of an
award in memory of C. William Pacy Jr., a
W&L freshman from Baltimore who was
killed in an automobile. accident last fall.
The award will go to the outstanding
freshman lacrosse player at Washington
and Lee. The coach will choose the recip-
ient. The chapter’s guest was James D.
Farrar, director of admissions, who
reported on the year’s significant campus
events. The meeting was one of the best in
recent years, attracting some 65 alumni.
Jim Crothers, ’66, came the longest
distance—from Rising Sun, Md. After the
meeting Dean Farrar demonstrated his
prowress in squash to all alumni who
dared meet him on the court.

 

 

 

NORTH TEXAS—Stuart A. MacCorkle, ’24; WEL Trustee E. Waller Dudley,
43; Mrs. Billie Vinson; WSL Trustee Emeritus John Newton Thomas, ’24.

 

NORTH TEXAS

 

"33; David T. Anderson, ’76.

NORTH TEXAS. An __ outstanding
reception and dinner in honor of the Uni-
versity Board of Trustees and the Robert
E. Lee Associates was held at the North-
wood Country Club in Dallas on Feb. 4.
John M. Stemmons, ’31, a trustee and
chairman of the University Achievement
Council, was the host and welcomed many
out-of-state alumni and friends. Presi-
dent and Mrs. Huntley attended along
with many members of the University’s
administrative staff. President Huntley
made brief remarks, recognizing
members of the Board of Trustees,
Stemmons, and Mrs. Billie Vinson, Stem-
mon’s secretary, who was instrumental in
the coordination of this memorable event.

BIRMINGHAM. A large group of
alumni extended a warm welcome to
President and Mrs. Huntley at a reception
and dinner on Feb. 17 at the Downtown
Club. Following the dinner, Richard S.
Abernethy, °’72, chapter president,
recognized the chapter officers and
thanked them for their help on behalf of
the chapter. Arrangements for the meet-
ing and the table decorations were made

Bill Bresel, ’°75; William H. Moomaw Jr., ’76; Leland G.
McCullough III, ’76; Rector of the Board of Trustees E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.,

 

MONTGOMERY:

 

O. B. McEwan, 40.

by the officers and their wives. President
Huntley’s remarks about Washington and
Lee and its future were well received.
Accompanying the MHuntley’s were
Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Bill Wash-
burn and Adrian Williamson Jr., ’50, of
Little Rock, Development Staff Associate.
Abernethy closed the meeting by
outlining some of the chapter’s future
projects, particularly in the area of
student recruitment.

MONTGOMERY. Many alumni, their
wives, and several parents of students
gathered for cocktails and dinner at the
Country Club on March 24. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn presented color
slides of the campus. In a brief business
session, Charles CC. Hubbard, ’48,
chairman of the nominating committee,
proposed a slate of officers who were unan-
imously elected: J. Michael Jenkins III,
64, president; Tabor R. Novak, ’66, vice
president; and Albert P. McWhorter, ’72,
secretary-treasurer. Named _ directors
were Dr. Edgar G. Givhan III, ’56, John
Walter Stowers, ’42, and Charles C. Hub-
bard, ’48. Joe F. Bear Sr., ’33, outgoing

 

 

Mr. and Mrs. Eugene Mangum, William S. Farmer, ’33;
Bert Evans, ’33; Joe F. Bear, ’33; Samuel M. Engelhardt Jr., ’34.

 

CENTRAL FLORIDA—Bill Washburn, third from left, presents certificate of
organization to Milton H. Bevis, 57; Warren E. Wilcox Jr., ’57;

president, made the arrangements for the
meeting and presided.

CENTRAL FLORIDA. The chapter
was organized and installed on March 25
with a large group of alumni and their
wives present. The ceremony took place
at The Citrus Club in Orlando. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn presented the
new chapter’s certificate of organization
to the newly elected president, Warren
Wilcox Jr., 57. The other officers elected
were O. B. McEwan, ’40, vice president,
and Milton H. Bevis Jr., 57, secretary-
treasurer. The members celebrated the
founding of the chapter during cocktails
and an hors d’oeuvres buffet. The
chapter area comprises Orlando and the
counties of Volusia, Orange, Seminole,
Brevard, Lake, and Osceola. Washburn,
on behalf of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors, welcomed the new chapter into the
association and gave a brief report on the
state of the University.

Reports on chapter meetings in April and early
May will be reported in the next issue of the
magazine.

23

Class notes

Why not a WSL rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-

 

niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$68.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.
BOSTON ROCKER

All black lacquer

$58.00 f.o.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:
Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your
check. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

24

1912
Dr. WILLIAM MCELWEE MILLER has published
The Bahai Faith: Its History and Teaching and A
Christian’s Response to Islam.

1926
Henry McGILL WILSON, a retired executive of
Bell Telephone System, is living in Owensboro,

Ky.

1927
ABRAM H. CROWELL, a retired executive with
Gulf Oil Co., is living in Southern Pines, N. C.,
where he enjoys golf four days a week.

ROBERT ORCHARD is owner of the Orchard
Ranch in Ten Sheep, Wyo. He has been in the
ranching business for nearly 50 years. Orchard
is a member of the American National and the
Wyoming Stock Growers Associations.

Jor W. Pirts retired as president and chairman
of the board of Brown Roberts Hardware Co.
after 47 years of service. He lives in Alexandria,
La., where he is on the boards of Guaranty
Bank and the First Federal Savings Bank. He is
also president of the Central Louisiana In-
dustrial Development Association.

RasBi Davip H. WIcE was re-elected president
of World Union for Progressive Judaism at its
fifth anniversary convention in Jerusalem in
November 1976.

1928

FRANK R. Dupuy, publisher of Cosmopolitan
magazine since 1962, retired the first of April.
He had over 40 years of experience in pub-
lishing starting in 1931 when he was an ad sales-
man, and later advertising sales manager, for
Hearst’s Los Angeles Examiner. In 1946 he join-
ed Good Housekeeping in Los Angeles as a West
Coast representative. He moved East in 1955
and became eastern advertising manager and
later assistant to the publisher of Good House-
keeping. In 1960 he was named advertising di-
rector of Popular Mechanics, the post he held un-
til 1962 when he took the helm at Cosmopolitan.
Dupuy is a former U. S. Army captain. He and
his wife Nancy and their son Frank Russell ITI,
reside in Manhattan.

1929
After retiring from the Norfolk & Western
Railway in July, 1974, WiLL1AM W. PACE rou-
tinely works as a volunteer in the Virginia
Room of the Roanoke Public Library.

1930

AsBpBot A. HARMAN is lecturing at Barnard Col-

 

lege after leaving Columbia University. He is
also the wine project director for Jobson Publish-
ing Magazine and the wine consultant for Amen-
can Express Newsletter Briefing.

Although retired, James N. Hess of Newtown,
Conn., has a part-time assignment as an em-
ployee interviewer for a 250-employee firm.

1931

JOHN H. Harpwick, retired president and
chairman of the board of Louisville, Ky., Trust
Co., was the recipient of the Area Chamber of
Commerce’s Gold Cup Award. The award,
originated in 1969, recognizes those who have
made significant contributions to community
programs. Hardwick, a former president of the
chamber, was head of the Louisville Bicen-
tennial Commission and was a leader in re-
vitalizing the riverfront. He has worked on
other projects including the Kentucky Derby
Festival, Greater Louisville Fund, Louisville
Orchestra, Kentucky Opera Association, and
the Dance Council.

JAMES BLAND MarTIN has retired after 45 years
of active law practice in his native Gloucester,
Va. He expects to continue his daily routine
though by visiting his office which is just off the
Courthouse Green. He was the senior member
of the firm of Martin, Hicks & Ingles. Martin
began practicing in Gloucester in 1931. He was
elected to the General Assembly and served in
the House of Delegates from 1938 to 1942. He
declined to run for re-election because he was
serving in the armed forces. Martin served as
chairman of the county Democratic Committee
for 14 years. He is a former member of the
democratic State Central Committee. Included
among his numerous business activities is his
membership on the board of directors of Unit-
ed Virginia Bank of Gloucester; vice president
and director of Tidewater Newspapers, Inc.;
and president and director of the J. Edwin
Treakle Foundation, Inc.

B. M. Osow!Tz wrote an article on the origins
of life which has drawn numerous requests for
reprints. He lives in Pompano Beach, Fla.

1932

BEVERLY H. SMITH is chairman of the board of
the newly opened Bev Smith Ford Dealership
in North Palm Beach, Fla. His son Nick is presi-
dent and general manager. (See classnote
1963.) Smith has had a career of eight dealer-
ships with Ford Motor Co. He began in the De-
troit and Dearborn area in the late 1930’s where
he met his wife Marie, who has been a true
partner through all of his associations with
Ford Motor Company. He has many stories of
the “old days” and was a personal acquaintance

of Henry Ford Sr. Smith and his wife moved to
Florida in the early ’50s. After a stint in Sara-
sota, they settled in West Palm Beach.

DONALD C. THOMPSON retired in January,
1977, as New York manager of Ayer Public Re-
lations Services, after 30 years with the com-
pany. He also retired as adjunct assistant pro-
fessor of business and management in the
School of Continuing Education at New York
University. He now lives in San Diego, Calif.,
where he anticipates continuing his teaching
and doing some free-lance writing.

1934

Scott Mosovicn, class agent for the W&L
Alumni Fund, has retired after 40 years of
teaching in Trenton, N. J., High School.

1936

JOEL GRAYSON III is vice president of BioLab
Inc. of Decatur, Ga. The firm manufactures
specialty chemical compounds for agriculture,
swimming pools, and commercial laundrys.

1937

STANLEY Barrows, formerly of Parsons School
of Design, is with Fashion Institute of Tech-
nology, a part of New York State University. In
the course of 30 years he has shaped a large per-
centage of the top talent in the decorating field.
Equally as notable as his classroom lectures are
his annual guided tours of Europe. Barrows
also lectures at the Cooper-Hewitt Museum of
Decorative Arts, a part of the Smithsonian In-
stitute.

EMERSON DICKMAN is group sales manager for
the New York Yankees baseball team and lives
in Sparta, N. J.

1938

PauL M. MILLER retired from the Foreign Serv-
ice after 29 years and is now employed as a
social worker with the federally-supported Re-
tired Senior Volunteer Program. This project is
a part of the ACTION program which provides
Opportunities for senior citizens to engage in
various social and educational work in schools,
hospitals, and nursing homes. Miller is head-
quartered in Charlottesville, Va.

1939

MARVIN COLLIE, an attorney with the firm of
Vinson & Elkins in Houston, Texas, was award-
ed the 1976 Distinguished Alumnus Award by
the ex-students’ association of the University of
Texas in ceremonies on Oct. 22, 1976. A medal-
lion was presented to Collie by the board of

regents chairman of the University of Texas
System.

Gwynn W. Me_rRITT is area supervisor of plan-
ning and distribution for duPont Co., Dacron
Manufacturing. He lives in eastern North Caro-
lina and enjoys playing golf and visiting his
four children and four grandchildren.

Dr. JOHN M. Moore practices general surgery
in El] Campo, Texas.

JOHN H. SHERRILL JR. is at the University of
West Florida in Pensacola where he is respon-
sible for graduate placement service and the
cooperative education program. This program
provides nine months of full-time, paid work
experience in the student’s chosen field.

1940

J. C. SNrpow Jr. is judge of the General Dis-
trict Court for the twenty-seventh Judicial Dis-
trict of Virginia. He was elected by the Virginia
General Assembly in January, 1975.

1941

ROBERT M. GREGERSON, formerly with Jim Tin-
dall Associates, a marketing service firm in Gar-
den City, N. Y., has now moved to Florida. He
and his wife are living in Highland Beach.

CHARLES L. Hosson, an attorney in Frankfort,
Ky., for 30 years, has been awarded the grade
of Navigator by the United States Power Squad-
rons and is the first member of the Blue Grass
Power Squadron to achieve that grade.

JOHN J. SPEIGHT JR. is working for the defense
mapping agency in Washington, D. C.

1942

Although he retired from the U. S. Govern-
ment in December, 1973, CHRISTOPHER C.
BARNEKOV returned for temporary assignment
in 1975 and 1976 as geographic consultant in
Austria, Ethiopia, Sierra Leone, Mauritania,
Switzerland, and Portugal.

Dr. RoBeErT L. Pinck was cited by the Passaic
County, N. J., chapter of the National Football
Foundation and Hall of Fame for the annual
Distinguished American Award. The presenta-
tion is made to an individual with a background
in football, whose life and achievements are a
paragon to youth. Pinck, an outstanding athlete
at Washington and Lee, is chairman of the
radiology department at the Long Island Col-
lege Hospital and is a renowned leader in his
profession. The speaker for the occasion was
Coach Bob McVay of the New York Giants.
Also present, as a guest of Pinck and a repre-

25

CORRECTION
John L. (Jack) Crist, °45, of Charlotte, W&L
trustee, is chairman of the United States Golf
Association’s Finance Committee, not the PGA
Finance Committee as reported in the March
issue. The error occurred in an item on Crist’s
serving his second term as treasurer of the
United States Golf Association.

sentative of W&L, was Walt Michaels, 51, coach
of the New York Jets.

1943

RICHARD E. BASILE, a professor in the College
of Hotel Administration at the University of
Nevada in Las Vegas, is also president of Uni-
versity Associates Inc., a unique consulting
firm staffed by leading educators and corpor-
ate executives throughout the country.

JEFFERSON W. HUDSON is group vice president
for Eagle-Picher Industries, Inc., an industrial
manufacturing concern in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Dr. Conrap L. INMAN Jr. is president of the
national alumni association of Baltimore Col-
lege of Dental Surgery, University of Maryland.

PHitip A. SELLERS and his son Philip, ’75, work
together in the investment banking firm of
Philip A. Sellers and Co., Inc., in Montgomery,
Ala.

After 32 years with the U. S. Air Force, ALAN
J. SHARITZ will retire in September, 1977.

1944

ALFRED HELDMAN has been with Texo Corp.
in Cincinnati, Ohio, for 30 years. He is involved
with sales of industrial foods and paper clean-
ing chemicals.

1945

J. ALVIN PHILPOTT, a member of the Board of
‘Trustees of Washington and Lee University has
been named president of the United Furniture
Corp., a division of Burlington House Furni-
ture, which is based in Lexington, N. C. Phil-
pott joined United Furniture in 1947 as secre-
tary-treasurer, a position he held until the firm
was acquired by Burlington Industries in 1968.
At that time he became an executive vice presi-
dent for Burlington House Furniture. Philpott
has served on the board of directors of the
Southern Furniture Manufacturers Associa-
tion and on the board of trustees of the Lex-
ington, N. C., Memorial Hospital. He has held
leadership positions with the Lexington Board
of Education, Kiwanis, Boy Scouts, United
Fund and Red Cross. He and his wife, the
former Helen Gibbs, have three children.

1948

TreNr D. Sieve will retire this year from the
F.B.1. after 29 years of service.

1949

MICHAEL B. BoyDA is a senior claims supervisor ;

26

tor Fireman’s Fund Insurance Co. He and his
wife Evelyn have three children and the family
lives in Overland Park, Kans.

Perry E. MANN is starting his second term as
prosecuting attorney for Summers County,
W. Va. He and his wife Clara have a son and
a daughter. The family lives in Hinton.

Rosert A. SHIELDS, chairman and president of
the First National Bank of Lexington, Va., has
been elected chairman of the advisory commit-
tee of Financial General Bankshares, a holding
company headquartered in Washington, D. C.

WILLIAM C. SMITH JR. is pastor of the Pilgrim
United Church of Christ in Durham, N. C.

1950

RicHARD E. Hopces, president of Liller, Neal,
Battle & Lindsey, Inc., an Atlanta advertising
and public relations agency, has been named
president of the newly-established Public
Broadcasting Council of the Atlanta and Fulton
County Public Schools. Hodges is a member of
the executive committee of the National Board
of Governors of the Public Broadcasting Serv-
ice (PBS) and is a former member of the At-
lanta Board of Education.

Since 1955 WiLL1AM H. MAYNARD Jr. has been
engaged in cotton and soy bean farming in
Clarksdale, Miss. He served three and a half
years in the U. S. Navy in the Pacific area. He
and his wife have three children.

F. Liste Perers Jr. has been named executive
vice president of First Federal Savings and
Loan of Lake Charles, La. Peters has been a
board member for the past 10 years. For 16
years he has been the president of Louisiana
Western Lumber Co., Inc., which he has been
associated with for 30 years. He is a life-long
resident of Lake Charles and is married to the
former Betty Shea. They have three daughters.
Active in the Lake Charles’ business com-
munity, Peters has served as president of the
local credit bureau, Better Business Bureau of
Southwest Louisiana, Louisiana Building Ma-
terial Dealers Association, and the Lumber
Dealers Association of Southwest Louisiana. He
also served as a trustee for the Lumber Dealers
Group Insurance program and has served as
director of Lake Charles Memorial Hospital.

1951

JAMES P. CARPENTER is house counsel for the
Florida Sports Authority. He recently visited
Venezuela to sign players for the Tampa Bay
Rowdies.

RICHARD T. PRruITT is a partner in the real

 

 

Robert L. Banse, °53 Jeb Rosebrook, °57

estate firm of the McCoy-Pruitt Co. in Ander-
son, S. C. The firm is engaged in residential
and commercial sales and development.

Foo2

JouNn AusTIN Hunt is associate professor of
English and associate provost for special pro-
grams on the Amherst campus of the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts.

Jor MENDELSOHN III of Cincinnati, Ohio, is the
senior executive vice president of Kenner Pro-
ducts Co., a toy manufacturer and subsidiary of
General Mills.

T9935

Rosert L. BANSE is vice president and general
counsel of Merck & Co. As counsel he is respon-
sible for the worldwide legal, trademark and
patent activities of the company. Before joining
Merck’s legal staff in 1955, Banse was associat-
ed with Townsend and Lewis, a New York City
law firm. He was an attorney for Merck Sharp
& Dohme International Division in New York
before he was appointed counsel to the com-
pany’s domestic pharmaceutical division. He
was named senior counsel at corporate head-
quarters in Rahway, N. J., in 1973. Heis a mem-
ber of the New York City Bar Association and
the Virginia and American Bar Association. He
is also a member of the Pharmaceutical Manu-
facturers Association’s law section.

JAMES P. CARPENTER (See 1951.)

1954

JaMEs R. TRIMM was elected to a third term on
the Maryland Bar Association Board of Gover-
nors. He is on the board’s executive committee.
He was also elected to a two-year term in the
House of Delegates of the American Bar As-
sociation.

1956

HuGH W. STEPHENS, an associate professor in
political science at the University of Houston,
has been appointed coordinator of interna-
tional affairs.

1957

James M. BOSWELL was appointed director of
merchandising for Kroger’s delta marketing
area headquartered in Memphis, Tenn., in
January 1976. He and his wife have three sons
and the family lives in Germantown, Tenn.

JED ROSEBROOK, film writer and novelist, has
been elected to the board of trustees of the
Orme School in Mayer, Ariz. Rosebrook at-
tended the school for eight years and was a

 

member of the 1953 graduating class. Formerly
with Foote, Cone & Belding Advertising
Agency, Rosebrook has pursued a full-time
writing career since 1968. He has written for
“The Virginian” and “The Waltons” television
series and for television specials including
“Miracle on 34th Street,” “I Shall Fight No
More Forever,” and the forthcoming “Prince of
Central Park.” He was nominated for a 1974
Writers Guild of America Award for an episode
of “The Waltons.” In 1975 he was an Emmy
nominee for his work on the special “I Shall
Fight No More Forever.” He and his wife have
two children and the family lives in North
Hollywood, Calif.

1960

After serving two terms as a member of the
Florida House of representatives, W. JERE TOL-
TON resigned July 31, 1976, and gave up his law
practice in Fort Walton Beach to fill an unex-
pired term as judge in the First Judicial Cir-
cuit. He was elected to the position on Sept. 7,
1976, and will serve a six-year term as circuit
Judge in the Juvenile Division at the Juvenile
Justice Center in Pensacola.

1961

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. CHar.es P. RILEY, a
second son, Michael Colmore, on Jan. 19, 1977.
Riley is director of the cardiac catheterization
laboratory and EKG department at the Sacred
Heart Hospital in Pensacola, Fla. He is also co-
director of similar facilities at the Baptist Hos-
pital.

JOHN R. FARMER is vice president of the fixed
income department in the San Francisco office
of Goldman, Sachs & Co., an international in-
vestment banking and securities brokerage
firm.

1962
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THompson W. Goop-
WIN, a son, John Pendleton, on Dec. 19, 1976.
The family lives in Roanoke where Goodwin is
with Dominion Bankshares Corp.

Dr. ROBERT P. CARROLL JR. practices medicine
in Nacogdoches, Texas. He and his wife have
four children. Carroll is secretary-treasurer of
Nacogdoches County Medical Society and
president of the Tenth District Medical Society.

Dr. R. A. (TONy) COUNCIL JR. is practicing ob-
stetrics and gynecology in Benton, Ark. He and
his wife Taffy have three children.

TERRY FOHs, his wife Janet, and their two sons
live in Los Gatos, Calif., where Fohs is a systems
analyst for IBM Corp. He recently had a tem-

porary assignment in Houston, Texas, where
he taught one academic year in the School of
Business at Texas Southern University.

EDWARD P. (NED) Hosss is vice president of
Albert B. Ashforth, Inc., a real estate firm
which specializes in relocating companies and
corporate headquarters. He, his wife Lissa, and
their three children live in New Canaan, Conn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. RICHARD ALBERT III,
a daughter, Paige Elizabeth, on Jan. 8, 1977.
She joins an older brother and the family lives
in Tulsa, Okla.

Nick S. SMITH is president and general man-
ager of the newly opened Bev Smith Ford Deal-
ership in the Lake Park area of North Palm
Beach, Fla. The opening ceremonies were held
February 25-27 for the million-dollar develop-
ment on North Lake Boulevard. Bev Smith, ’32,
is chairman of the board. Smith, following in
his father’s footsteps, is recognized by Ford
Motor Co. as one of “their most promising and
upcoming executives.” He has a background of
working in Ford dealerships and Ford Motor
Co. schools on advanced dealership manage-
ment, sales and merchandising management,
dealership business management, and used car

 

Chapter Presidents

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70, Smith,
Robinson & Vinyard, 117 W. Main St.,
Abingdon, Va. 24210

Arkansas—William C. Norman, Jr., ’56, P. O.

Drawer 597, Crossett, Ark. 71635
Atlanta—Phil Thompson, ’68, "aL, Hansell,
Post, Brandon & Dorsey, 3300 1st Natl. Bank
Bldg., Atlanta, GA 30303
Augusta-Rockingham—William B. Gunn, ’42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801
Baltimore——John H. West III, ’65, 6213 Moss-
way, Baltimore, Md. 21212
Birmingham—Richard S. Abernethy, ’72,
917 6th Ave., P.O.

Southern Rubber Co., Inc..,
Birmingham, Ala. 35202
D7,

Box 10762,
Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox, Jr.,
Sun First National Bank of Orlando, P. O.
Box 3833, Orlando, FL 32897
Charleston——Louie A. Paterno, Jr., ’65, 1401
Somerlayton Road, Charleston, W. Va. 25314
Charlotte—W. Joseph Dozier, 70, 1753 Mary-

land Ave., Charlotte, N.C, 28209
Chattanooga—David M. Berlinghof, °5>d5, Car-
P.O. Box 4227, Chattanooga, Tenn.

gill,
37405

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, III, ’62, One First
National Plaza, Rm. 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60603

Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, °55, Landseair
Inc., 1228 Euclid Ave. Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—Dr. George Smith, 756,
Rt, 5, Box 459, Frederick, Md. 21701

Dallas—Edward G. Woodson, Jr., ’60, Shind-
ler-Cummins, Inc., 3131 Turtle Creek Blvd..,
Suite 404, Dallas, Texas 75219

Eastern North Carolina—James TT. Hedrick,
00, Suite 423, One Eleven Coraran St.,
Durham, N.C. 27702

Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
'63, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley, Jr., ’58, Law,
Snakard, Brown and Gambill, Fort "Worth
National Bk. Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102

Gulf Stream—A. J. ‘Barranco, 64, Suite 1004
Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,

Fla. 33130
Houston—Rovpert I. Peeples, ’57, 953 Esperson
Bldg., Houston, TX 77002
Jacksonville—Harry M. Wilson, ’69, 1306
Avondale Ave., Jacksonville, Fla. 32205
Kansas City—William N. Leedy, "49, 814
Westover Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113
Louisville—Henry H. Knight, II, ’63, John-
ston, Brown, Burnett and Knight, Inc., 425
South 5th Street, Louisville, Ky. 40202
Lynchburg—Roger Ww. Fauber, 63, Fidelity
Nat, Bank, Main St. , Lynchburg, VA 24505
Mid- South—-Jerome Turner, ’64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis, Tenn. 38117
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill, Jr., ’67,
Braid Electric Co., 1100 Demonbreun Street.
’64, Belcher Oil

Nashville, Tenn. 37219
Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr.,
Co., P. O. Box 1423, Mobile, AL 36601
Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, ’64, 1655
Gilmer Ave., Montgomery, AL 36104

New England—Charles W, Pride, ’72, Sexton
Can Co., 31 Cross St., Everett, MA 021 49
New Orleans—Richard K, Christovich, ’68, 118
Central Park Place, New Orleans, La, 70124
New York—Jaroslav A. Drabek, ’53, 8 Wendth
Avenue, Larchmont, N.Y. 10538
‘David T. Shufflebarger, ’69, 1115

Manchester Ave., Norfok, Va. 23508
Northern California—Emmett W. MacCorkle,

        

Jr., ’26, 1100 Sharon Park Drive No. 25,
Menlo Park, Calif. 94025
Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, ’66, Attor-

ney at Law, 219 Couch Drive, Oklahoma City,
OK 73102

Palm  Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas _ S.
Smith, ’63, 2910 Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm
Beach, Fla. 33401

Palmetto—T. Patton Adams IV, ’65, 2800
Wheat St., Columbia, SC 29204
Peninsula—Ben Williams, Esq., ’71, 23 Brook-
field Dr., Hampton, Va. 23666
Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’63, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503
Philadelphia—John E, Kelly, III, ’66A, 69L,

1208 Panama St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19107
Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, ’73, Wachovia
Bank & Trust Co., Loan Administration,
Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104
Richmond—Jack DeJarnette, ’65, 601 N. Davis,
Apt. 5, Richmond, VA 23220

Roanoke—William L. Andrews III, ’72, 430
Canterbury La., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree, III, ’59, P.O.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450

San Antonio—Ralph E. Lehr, Jr., ’73, Peat

Marwick Mitchell & Co.,900 National Bank
of Commerce Bldg., San Antonio, Texas 78205
St. Louis—Andrew W. Baur, ’67, 20 Foxboro,
St. Louis, Mo. 63124
South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, ’4 .O. Drawer 4106, Station B,
Anderson, S. C. 29621
Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
°53, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Thomas P. Winborne, 752,
3510 Arnold Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226
Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner, Jr.,

"54A, ’60L, Vansant & Millner, Drawer 110,
Chatham, Va. 24531

Tri States—Charles F. Bagley, III, ’69, Camp-
bell, Woods, Bagley, Emerson, McNeer &
Herndon, P.O. Box 1835, Huntington, W.Va.
24719

Tulsa—Dan W. Higgins, Jr., ’69, Merrill
Lynch Pierce Fenner & Smith, 1200 First
National Bldg., Tulsa, Okla. 74103

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’48, 507
Cumberland Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, ’70, Arthur

Andersen & Co., 1666 K St., N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C, 20006

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, ’62,
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Greenville, Wilmington, Del. 19807

3010

27

Class Notes

management. The new Smith dealership in-
cludes a computerized system for payroll, ac-
counting, and parts department cataloging.
Smith also enjoys boating.

In early April JAMEs L. Storr Jr. left the Lon-
don office of the Philadelphia National Bank
to join the First National Bank of Minneapolis
as vice president and manager of that bank’s
international banking department.

JAMES M. CAMPBELL recently joined the staff of
the Alderman Library at the University of Vir-
ginia where he is an Anglo-Germanic biblio-
grapher.

After earning an education degree from the
University of Virginia in 1975, Ken C. Kowat-
SKI is completing his second year as principal of
E. C. Glass High School in Lynchburg, Va. In
May, 1977. he will assume the presidency of the
Virginia Association of School Executives. He is
also an instructor in the graduate school of
education at the University of Virginia Exten-
sion School. He and his wife Gail have two chil-

dren.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN W. CLARK JR., twin
sons, James Richard and Jeffrey Andrew, on
Nov. 9, 1976. The boys join an older sister and
brother.

J. MicHAEL JENKINS is president of Jenkins
Brick Co. in Montgomery, Ala.

James B. McCeney has been promoted to di-
rector of the office of financial services of the
Organization of American States with offices in
Washington, D. C.

Tain P. TOMPKINS is on a year’s leave from
the U. S. Department of State. He is a fellow at
the Institute of Politics at Harvard University
where he teaches a seminar on the making of

foreign policy.
Dr. JoHN M. McDaniet (See 1976, Moore.)

W. JERE TOLTON (See 1960.)

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN L. WILLSON, a
daughter, Lauren Lee, on April 7, 1976. Will-
son and his family recently moved to Roanoke,
Va., where he has opened a law office.

J. Woop RutTeR is director of admissions at
Salisbury School in Salisbury, Conn.

1966

After three years with the Virginia Division of

28

 

John E. Mynttinen, ’66

Probation and Parole Services in Roanoke,
WILLIAM D. ANDREWS is a field officer with the
Federal Probation Office. He and his wife, the
former Vesta Varner, have two children. The
family lives in Abingdon, Va.

After two years in San Francisco with the wine
business, THoMas G. Day is in New York City
working as regional sales manager with Lanvin-
Charles of the Ritz, a cosmetic and perfume
firm.

SAMUEL H. FRAZIER is a practicing attorney in
Birmingham, Ala. He and his wife Carol have
bought, and are restoring, an old house in
Forest Park, a turn-of-the-century residential
area. Frazier is president of the Forest Park As-
sociation which is involved in preserving and
registering the area as a National Historic Dis-
trict and fighting zoning problems.

JOHN E. MyNTTINEN is senior counsel for the
Lighting Products Group of GTE Sylvania Inc.,
a subsidiary of General Telephone & Elec-
tronics Corp. Mynttinen joined Sylvania as an
attorney in 1972. He was named counsel in
1975 and has assumed broader legal responsi-
bilities for the Lighting Products’ domestic
lighting activities. Before joining Sylvania,
Mynttinen was with the law firm of Simpson,
Thacher & Bartlett in New York City. He is a
member of the American Bar Association,
American Management Association, and the
New York and Massachusetts Bar Associations.
He will continue to make his headquarters at
Sylvania’s Lighting Center in Stamford, Conn.
received his

JAMES B. ‘THOMPSON  JrR.,

M.B.A. from the University of Virginia in May,

 

 

Allen R. Caskie, 69

1975, and began working for Caltex Petroleum
Corp., an affiliate of Texaco and Standard Oil
of California. He is currently assigned to the
company’s subsidiary office in the Republic of

South Africa.
1967

MARRIAGE: D. H. Scorr Tappan and Carole
McNeil Adams on Oct. 9, 1976, in Stow, Mass.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. ZINK III, a
daughter, Caroline Forrest, on Sept. 23, 1976.
The family lives in Baltimore, Md., where Zink
is a practicing attorney.

KEVIN EARLE is finishing his third term at the
Assemblies of God Graduate School in Spring-
field, Mo., and has recently begun work on a
master’s degree in counseling and learning dis-
abilities at Southwest Missouri State University.

Jack H. James has been appointed executive
secretary of the General Contractors Associa-
tion of Lehigh Valley. The association repre-
sents unionized contractors and subcontractors
in Eastern Pennsylvania.

JouN F. MozeEna is vice president of Mutschler
Kitchens, Inc., in Grosse Point Woods, Mich.
He and his wife, the former Susan H. d’Olive,
have two children and the family lives in Grosse
Point Farms.

GEORGE N. STAMAS is assistant treasurer of
European American Banking Corp. in Chic-
ago, Ill. He is enrolled in the M.B.A. evening
program at Northwestern University.

1968

MARRIAGE: Davip S. JOHNSON and Jean
Ellen Lahey on Feb. 26, 1977, in New York
City. The couple will live in New York where
Johnson is manager of field operations for
Avon Products.

Dr. JAMES W. LARGE completed his training
in general surgery at Ohio State University in
June, 1976, and has returned to suburban De-
troit to enter general surgery practice with his
father. He and his wife have a daughter, Mar-
garet Lynn, born in April 1976.

Dr. MIKE MILEs, former financial vice presi-
dent with Alpert Investments, is now an assis-
tant professor of real property and finance at
the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill.
He and his wife have three daughters.

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH T. CHADWICK

Jr., a daughter, Tracey Martin, on June 7,
1976. The family lives in Baltimore, Md., where

 

Chadwick is employed by T. Rowe Price Associ-
ates, Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Ray V. HartTwELt III, a
son, Ray Vinton IV, on Feb. 5, 1977. Hartwell
is with the Richmond, Va., law firm of Hunton
& Williams. He is co-author of an article, “An-
nual Survey of Antitrust Development 1975-
76,” which is scheduled to appear in the Spring,
1977, issue of the Washington and Lee Law Re-
view.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. THomas K. SLABAUGH,
a daughter, Susanne Garbee, Feb. 11, 1977.
The young lady joins an older brother. The
family lives in Atlanta where Slabaugh is a resi-
dent urologist at Emory University affiliated
hospitals.

ALLEN R. CASKIE has been named counsel of
the federal relations division of the American
Council of Life Insurance, in Washington, D.C.
He will work in the areas of antitrust and fed-
eral trade commission law. He had previously
worked with the Federal Trade Commission as
a Managing attorney in their Washington re-
gional office since March 1973. Caskie is a
graduate of the Emory University Law School.

After two years in Boston, JOHN Lowery JOHN-
SON 1s now in Houston, Texas, with the Fisk
Electric Co. At present he is general manager of
Audio Video designs, a sound systems company
owned by Fisk.

KENNETH H. Tay or has been named assistant
director of the Virginia Employment Commis-
sion’s appeal division in Richmond, Va. After
receiving his law degree from the Mar-
shall-Wythe School of Law at William and
Mary, Taylor joined the VEC in 1975 as an un-
employment compensation hearing officer.

RICHARD WATT received a master of divinity
degree from Covenant Seminary in St. Louis in
1973. He was ordained in 1975 by the Reform-
ed Presbyterian Church, Evangelical Synod,
and now serves in Memphis, Tenn. He and his
wife Cathy have two sons.

JOHN T. WHETSTONE recently moved to Bir-
mingham, Mich., where he is manager in the
business and energy economics department of
the American Natural Service Co., a subsidiary
of American Natural Resources of Detroit.

Harry ZELIFF was admitted to the Michigan
State Bar in April, 1976, and is now associated
with a Lansing, Mich., law firm engaged in pri-
vate practice.

1970

MARRIAGE: Dr. F. MILes LITTLE and Tawny
Elaine Godin, on March 6, 1977, in New York

City. The bride was Miss America 1976. Among
the members of the wedding party were T.
Kenneth Cribb Jr., 70, and H. Walter Barre
II, °70. The couple lives in Los Angeles where
Little is a resident physician at the Los Angeles
County-University of Southern California
Medical Center.

JOHN KEFAUVER and his wife Margaret live in a
log cabin he built in Rice, Washington. They
farm organically and he works full time as a
carpenter. They are expecting a child in June.

Jack ARTHUR KirBy, who holds an appoint-
ment as adjunct professor of business law at
Drexel University in Philadelphia, recently
published two articles concerning estate plan-
ning dealing with valuation problems under the
Tax Reform Act of 1976 and asset management
for farmers.

J. TERRANCE ROACH is assistant attorney gen-
eral for the State of Maryland. He also serves as
counsel for the University of Maryland.

JOHN H. Z1nxk (See 1967.)

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HENry Norrtrserc III,
a son, H. Tyler, on April 20, 1976. Nottberg
is vice president of U. S. Engineering Co., a
construction firm, in Kansas City, Mo., and has
been elected to the board of directors of the
United Missouri Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GREG RAETzZ, a daugh-
ter, Elizabeth Megging, on July 29, 1976. Raetz
was elected mayor of Columbia, Va., during the

1976 general election. He works as a C.P.A. in
Richmond.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. Hoy WIDENER, a son,
Justin Wood, on July 22, 1976. Widener is in
his last year of chemistry graduate studies at
Purdue.

Dr. WALTER B. BEVERLY completed medical
school at the University of Virginia and is now
a resident at the hospital there.

Davip P. CuHRIsTOvicHu is teaching theatre arts
at High Point College in North Carolina. He is
a doctoral candidate at the University of Geor-

gla.

After four years as an officer with the Arlington
County, Va., Police Department, FRANKLIN R.
RicuH has been promoted to the rank of detec-
tive.

ROBERT R. WEED served as manager for the
successful congressional campaign of Paut S.
TRIBLE, ’71. He is now legislative assistant on
Rep. Trible’s staff.

1972

JAMES F. HEATWOLE is presently the assistant
credit review officer for Dominion Bankshares
Corp. in Roanoke, Va. He has responsibility for
overseeing loan portfolio quality in the 12
member banks.

ROBERT D. LARUuE is the lending officer in the
real estate division of First National Bank in
Dallas.

Jor D. Pippin is engaged in the general prac-
tice of law in Norton, Va.

E. GEORGE STOOK JR. holds the M.B.A. degree
from the University of Virginia and is now
working for the Lynchburg, Va., Foundry.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DouG.tas R. CLELAN, a
son, Jared Douglas, on Jan. 16, 1977. The
family resides in Camp Hill, Pa.

DouGLas G. BuRTON spent the past year as a
missionary in the International One World
Crusade; six months of the year were served in
various cities of West Germany.

GEORGE E. CALvert Jr., formerly with First &
Merchants National Bank, is now working for
Horner, Barksdale & Co. in the public finance
department. The firm specializes in underwrit-
ing Virginia tax exempt municipal and indus-
trial revenue bonds.

PETER J. Furey has been working in county
government in Ocean County, N. J., since April
1974. He has ‘served as a planner trainee, assis-
tant planner and grants coordinator in the
county planning department.

JOHN Laurens III is in his fourth year at the
College of Architecture at Georgia Tech Uni-
versity. He is presently enrolled in the Study
Abroad Program at the Center International de
Sejour, St. Germain en Laye in Paris. After his
return to the United States in May, Laurens will
have two more years of graduate school before
completion of the M.S. degree in architecture.

D. Mark MCMInN has been involved with film
production in Washington, D.C. since gradua-
tion. Films photographed or edited by McMinn
have appeared on network television and have
been exhibited overseas and in international
competition. He recently received a first place
award in the San Francisco International Film
Festival and a Golden Eagle in International
Film Competition.

HATTON C. V. SMITH is district sales manager
for Royal Cup Coffee Co., out of Birmingham,

29

Class Notes

Ala. He is also secretary of the Southern Coffee
Break Association.

After serving three years as assistant district at-
torney for the 13th Judicial district of North
Carolina, WILLIAM E. Woop was elected Dis-
trict Court Judge in the November, 1976, elec-
tion. His office includes jurisdiction over civil,
juvenile and domestic relations matters and
non-felony criminal trials.

1974
MARRIAGE: Jerrrey D. BuRKE and Cabell S.
Robinson, on Sept. 11, 1976, in Rocky Mount,
Va. Among the groomsmen were Douglas
Bruce Paul, ’76, James Taylor Marion, ’73, Ro-
bert William Konwinski Jr., °74, Lee Rudolph

Redmond III, ’74, and William Leonard Down-.

ing, ’74. The couple lives in Woodbridge, Va.
Burke, who received the M.B.A. degree from
George Mason University in January, 1976,
works for Sperry Univac Federal Systems as a
contract and price representative.

MARRIAGE: LEONARD PRENTICE EAGER ITI and
Eloise Simons on Aug. 21, 1976, in Atlanta.
Among the groomsmen were classmates J.
Stuart Platter, William R. Spofford III, Gary C.
Bingham, Steven E. Leftwich, and August S.
Lander.

THEODORE H. AMSHOFF JR. graduated from the
University of Louisville School of Law in De-
cember, 1976, and is now engaged in private
practice in Louisville, Ky.

CHET BurcEss is living in Norfolk, Va. where
he is radio news editor at WT AR.

STEPHEN ELKINS left the trust division of the
First National Bank of Birmingham to join the
Department of Labor in Washington. His work
involves implementation of ERISA, the recent
legislation which regulates employee benefits
plans.

JaMEs D. FARRAR Jr. is in his third year of teach-
ing and coaching at Episcopal High School in
Alexandria, Va. He wears several hats includ-
ing assistant admissions director, professor of
U.S. History, head junior varsity lacrosse coach,
and assistant varsity football coach.

KENNETH HuRbD is in his second year at Stuart
Hall School in Staunton; Va., where he teaches
chemistry, physics and algebra and coaches
tennis.

Duncan S. KLINEDINST is in his second year at
the University of Virginia School of Law.

JOHN S. LALLey JR. has been promoted to inter-
national officer at Maryland National Bank in

30

Baltimore. He has been assigned to work in the
Asian area.

MICHAEL PEPPLER is a third-year student at the
University of Miami School of Medicine, where
he received the 1975 George Paff Award for ex-
cellence in gross anatomy. Last summer he
completed a six-week clerkship in vestibular re-
search at the Naval Aerospace Medical Re-
search Institute in Pensacola, Fla.

After more than two years of selling insurance
in the Pittsburgh area, RoBERT N. WADDELL III
is working at City National Bank of Columbus,
Ohio, as a trainee in branch administration.

Joun L. WuiTE is currently employed as a stu-
dent development counselor at Trident Tech-
nical College in Charleston, S. C. White, who
holds the M.S. degree in guidance and counsel-
ing from Radford College, was recently ap-
pointed to a permanent steering committee to
develop a career information system for the
South Carolina Technical Education System.

JOHN M. ZaMOISKI is regional marketing direc-
tor for Ringling Bros. Barnum & Bailey Circus.
He travels around the country doing advance
work in public relations, ticket sales and adver-
tising.

1975

RICHARD F. BirIBAUER has accepted a position
as trademark counsel with Johnson & Johnson,
a multi-national health products corporation,
headquartered in New Brunswick, N. J.

Curtis E. BOSWELL JR. is enrolled at the Texas
Tech University School of Law where he is
president of the second-year class.

DUNCAN B. DEGRaAFF is a salesman for Random
House, Inc., serving Pennsylvania and West
Virginia.

KENNETH FAUTEAUX is a first-year dental stu-
dent at the Medical College of Virginia in Rich-
mond.

MATTHEW KrarrtT, formerly controller of a
suburban Maryland Savings and Loan Associa-
tion, passed the uniform C.P.A. exam and has
joined the staff of a Washington, D. C., account-
ing firm. He was recently elected fleet captain
of the Potomac River Penguin Fleet, a Washing-
ton area sailing club.

DANIEL B. Krisky is practicing law in Fairfax,
Va.

W. Davip Lawson is working in New York City
with Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. as a manage-
ment trainee.

Having served as both defensive and govern-
ment counsel, Capt. JOHN I. McCLurkin,
USMC, is now working in the review section of
the office of the Staff Judge Advocate, 2nd
Marine Division, Camp Lejeune, N. C.

JEFFREY S. MILLER is practicing law in Jackson-
ville, N. C.

JOHN S. ORTON is practicing law in Houston,
‘Texas.

After working for the Republican National
Committee during the 1976 Presidential cam-
paign in Washington, D. C., JAaMEs N. OVERTON
is back in Jacksonville, Fla., with Sautheast
Electronics, Inc.

BENJAMIN M. SHERMAN is the sports informa-
tion director at the University of Delaware in
Newark.

BENTON C. (Cary) TOLLey and his wife Dorothy
are in Jacksonville, Fla., where each is pursuing
a graduate degree. Tolley is seeking an LL.M.
in taxation at the University of Florida’s Law
School while Dorothy is working towards her
M.A. in teaching.

Ray ALLEN WEBB is a second-year student at the
University of Kentucky School of Law where he
is a member of the Moot Court team.

WILLIAM M. Witcox IV is currently working as
a field auditor for General Tire and Rubber
Co., in Akron, Ohio.

JoeL A. WILLIAMS is a second-year student at
the Cumberland School of Law in Birmingham,
Ala., where he is a member of the law review.

IrviIN WOLFSON is employed as public service
director and account representative of the
Manister, Mich., Radio Corp.

Ray V. HARTWELL III (See 1969.)
Jor D. Pippin (See 1972.)

PuHiuip L. SELLERS (See 1943.)

1976

Davip S. ALTER II was admitted to the West
Virginia Bar in September, 1976, and is en-
gaged in law practice with Rice, Hannis and
Douglas, a Martinsburg, W. Va., firm.

Jay R. Fries is presently attending the Mar-
shall-Wythe School of Law at William and
Mary, where he is on the law review staff.

Ron Hark has joined Lavidge and Associates, a
Knoxville, Tenn., advertising agency, as a pro-
ject director.

 

JOHN HENZEL JR. is working at the Times Herald
newspaper in Olean, N. Y. He is also enrolled in
courses at St. Bonaventure University.

Davin S. MARTIN is living outside Atlanta, Ga.,
where he works as a Mercedes Benz mechanic.

MICHAEL J. MCDONOUGH is an institutional
salesman of municipal bonds for Prescott, Ball
& ‘Turben in New York City.

DAVID ‘TERRELL Moore has spent the year since
his graduation as the Liberty Hall Postgraduate
Scholar working with Dr. JoHN M. McDANIEL
III, 64, director of the Liberty Hall Academy
archaeological project. Moore has been in-
volved with the “dig,” since its first season four
years ago, both in courses and in the field. This
past winter he attended the annual meeting of
the Society for Historical Archaeology in Ot-
tawa, Canada, and presented a paper on the
Liberty Hall excavation to a session of which
Dr. McDaniel was chairman. Moore also pre-
sented a paper at the meeting of the Southern
Anthropological Society in Miami, Fla., in
March.

After six months on the island of Taiwan study-
ing with the woodcarver Ju Ming, STEPHEN K.
ROBERTS began a tour through Europe and
arrived in France in December, 1976. Roberts
is presently working in Paris doing set designs
for an English-speaking repertory theatre com-

pany.

After passing the Wyoming Bar in October,
1976, THomas L. SANSONETTI practices law in
Gillette.

C. ALBERT Zipp III is working as a sportscaster
for KBTX-TV in Bryan, Texas, and is pursuing
a master’s degree in political science at Texas
A&M University.

i444,

In Memoriam

1914

J. EASLEY EDMUNDS JR., a Lynchburg attorney
and a life member of the Virginia Bar Associa-
tion, died March 5, 1977. Edmunds was instru-
mental in organizing the Lynchburg Chapter of
the American Red Cross which he later served
as president. He began his Lynchburg law prac-
tice in 1919 and three years later formed a part-
nership with the late Aubrey E. Strode, ’94.
Over the years the firm had several changes in
its partnership; in 1970 the firm of Edmunds,
Baldwin & Graves was consolidated with an-
other Lynchburg firm and became Edmunds,
Williams, Robinson, Sackett, Baldwin & Graves.

Edmunds was the senior partner of the firm at
the time of his death. He retired in 1973 as di-
rector of the United Virginia Bank/First Na-
tional after serving in that capacity for 43 years.

1916

MARVIN CECIL HORNER SR., a civic, church and
business leader of Morristown, Tenn., died
Nov. 28, 1976. He was a retired life underwriter
with Equitable Life Assurance Society and a
member of its Group Millionaire Club. He wasa
former vice president of Johnson’s Spring Co.
in Jefferson City, Tenn. Horner served as
chairman of the Hamblen County Conserva-
tion Board for 35 years. Its main project was
Cherokee Park. He was a member of the
Morristown Rotary Club for 36 years, which he
served as president in 1941. He was honored
annually by his fellow Rotarians for his perfect
attendance.

1927

J. DEWEESE CarTER, a retired judge of the
Court of Special Appeals and former chief
judge of the Second Judicial Circuit on Mary-
land’s Eastern Shore, died Feb. 25, 1977, after a
long illness. Carter was a genial but dignified
man who had long been an outspoken advo-
cate of improvement of the administration of
justice. In seeking that end, he became one of
the founders of the Maryland Bar Foundation.
He was also a director of the Ameri-
can Judicature Society. Carter began law prac-
tice in 1927. He served as United States Com-
missioner on the Eastern Shore for six years. In
1940 he was appointed judge to the State Tax
Commission. Two years later he entered the
Army and served for four years. He was sent to
the Pacific as a major in the Army’s Advocate
Generals Corps. He returned to the Eastern
Shore after his discharge in 1946 and resumed
his law practice. In 1957 he became chief judge
of the Second Judicial Circuit of Maryland.
Carter was appointed to the Court of Special
Appeals of Maryland in 1971 and was senior
judge when he retired in 1973. In Caroline
County, Carter held several positions including
that of president of the Carolina County His-
torical Society and president of the board of
trustees of the Carolina County Public Library.

1930

HARVEY LEMUEL WILLIAMS Jr., president of the
Hawkins Hamilton Co., Inc., a manufacturers
representative firm in Richmond, Va., died
Aug. 16, 1976. Williams was certified as a pro-
fessional mechanical engineer in the state of
Virginia. He was a member of the Engineers
Club of Richmond, and a member of both
the national and state Society of Professional
Engineers.

1932

Rev. WILLIAM LOvE WoobDaALL, the retired
pastor of Leetonia, Ohio, Presbyterian Church,
died Jan. 16. 1977, at the Park Vista Presby-
terian Home in Youngstown. Woodall served as
pastor of Presbyterian churches in Girard, Po-
land, and Vienna, Ohio, and was visiting pastor
in numerous district churches in Ohio and Ala-
bama. He was a member of the Leetonia Board
of Public Affairs, City Council, Library Board,
American Legion, and the Masons. He served
as chaplain in World War II with the Navy
Seabees. Woodall was the author of five books
and wrote numerous articles and stories for
weekly columns.

1933

LUTHER FRENCH VIOLETT JR., an executive with
Dunn & Bradstreet Inc., died Dec. 31, 1976.
Violett joined Dunn & Bradstreet in 1936 and
held various administrative and executive posts
before his retirement in the middle 1960's. An
outstanding athlete at Washington and Lee,
Violett continued to be active in sports and was
an avid swimmer. At the time of his death he
was living in Miami, Fla.

1935

GEORGE ANDERSON BROWNE, former Sunday
editor and columnist for the Mobile, Ala., Press
Register, died July 17, 1976, in Hawaii. He was
on vacation. Browne was well known in news-
paper circles. Prior to World War II he was
Lcraerea of the Gilroy, Calif., Evening Dispatch.

€ was a past president of the Mobile chapter
of the Society of Professional Journalists. For
the past two years Browne had been employed
by the city government of San Rafael, Calif. He
was a veteran of World War II and served as a
captain in the 83rd_ Infantry Division.

1937

EDWARD Gorpon RaAwLs, an agent for the
Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Co., died
Dec. 15, 1976 in Portsmouth, Va. Rawls was an
Army captain during World War II. He was a
member of the Norfolk Chartered Life Under-
writers Association and a past president of the
Association and the Norfolk Life Underwriters
Association.

James DavIDSON WALKER, personnel director
for 10 years at Holzer Medical Center in Galli-
polis, Ohio, died Jan. 18, 1977. He retired from
the medical center in October 1975. He had
been formerly affiliated with the Hobet Mining
Corp. of Charleston, W.Va., had also worked as
an auditor with the Public Utilities Commission
of Ohio, and as a national bank examiner. He
was an active member of the Gallipolis Lodge
No. 107 of the Benevolent Fraternal Order of
Elks.

31

1940

WILLIAM RANSOM JOHNSON DUNN JR., a Bir-
mingham, Ala., businessman, died Feb. 8, 1977.
Dunn was chairman of the board of Dunn Con-
struction Co. and had been active in the busi-
ness and civic affairs of the city for many years.
At the time of his death, he was chairman of
the board of trustees of Cooper Green Hospital
and president of the board of directors of Guar-
anty Savings and Loan Association. He was past
president of the Alabama Road Builders
Association and the Alabama Association of
General Contractors and had been a member of
the board of directors of the First Alabama

Bank.
194]

ROBERT FINLEY WALKER JR., an advertising
representative with a general outdoor advertis-
ing firm in the Chicago area, died in December
1976. Walker was a veteran of World War II
and received five battle stars and the Bronze
Star.

1942

Dr. GEORGE F. PARTON JR., physician and direc-
tor of student health services at Middlebury
College in Vermont, died Jan. 19, 1977. Parton
served with the Medical Corps during World
War II and the Korean War. He was on the staff
of the Hartford Hospital for 18 years before be-
coming student health director at Middlebury
College.

1952
ARCH J. ALEXANDER JR., an attorney in Charles-
ton, W.Va., died Feb. 24, 1977. During World
War II he was a first lieutenant in the United
States Air Force.

ALEXANDER BYRON MOHLER II, general man-
ager of an automobile business in Mexico City,
died in an automobile accident on Feb. 20,
1977. His wife Ana and their daughter,
Dorothy Ann Mohler Cadaval, were also killed.
The Mohlers, both natives of Mexico City,
were actively involved in community affairs.

1968

ANDREW EVERETT COLCLOUGH, a lawyer active
in Republican Party affairs, died Jan. 31, 1977,
in Arlington, Va. Colclough served as state
chairman of the Young Republicans Federa-
tion of Virginia in 1971-73 when he was named
a member of the Virginia State Republican
Executive Committee. A member of the Vir-
ginia Bar, the American and Arlington Bar
Associations, Colclough was former secretary
of the Northern Virginia Lawyers Association.
He had been active in the Arlington Jaycees and
the Optimist Club.

32

 

Help us round up
these lost alumni

The Alumni Office does not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.

Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,

send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

William J. Arant, ’66
Edwin W. Brown, ’25
Richard J. Ceraso, ’31
Charles F. Cummings, ’62L
Robert H. Duckwall, 67, ’70L
Richard J. Golsan, ’74
Thomas R. Kay, ’49
Robert D. Lackey, ’68
John P. Laimbeer Jr., 67
William B. Laing, ’31
Donald W. Laird, ’34
Duval C. Lake, ’24

F. Lamar Lamb, 65
Edgar R. Lane, ’26
Samuel M. Lane, ’20
Christian A. Larsen Jr., 63
Sanford Larson, ’60
Edward L. Lasuhell, ’12
Earle S. Lathrop III, ’67
David H. A. Laughlin, ’73
Alexander C. Law, ’09
Elwin W. Law, ’61

James E. Law, ’57

James F. Lawson, ’01
George A. Leavitt, ’51
Gregori Lebedev, 65
Scott T. LeCraw, ’76
james F. Ledbetter, ’65
Edward W. Lee, ’38
John W. Lee, ’01

Robert E. Lee,-’64

Walter H. Lee, ’45

Yen C. Lee, ’18

Stephen L. Leech, 63
William J. Lehman, ’66
Charles C. Leidy, ’56

Ira Lemmon, ’12

Lester C. Leonard Jr., ’50
Stephen.&. Lester, 67
James W. Lett, ’54
Andrew L. Lewis, ’27
Michael L. Lewis, ’66
Thomas M. Lewis, ’44
David P. Lindecamp, ’62
George W. Lindsey, ’07
Edward D. Line, ’57
William R. Linton, ’50
Morgan E. Lipps, ’03
Marvin L. Llewellyn, ’25
Humberto J. Llorens Jr., 54
Hilton W. Long, ’15
James H. Loving, ’49L
Clayton R. Lowe, ’30
Atherton C. Lowry, ’61
Richard K. Ludwig, ’29
Christian A. Luhnow, ’55

Adolfo N. Luina, 43

Jose A. Luina, ’42L
Thomas H. Lyle, ’25
Robert H. Lynn, ’46
Robert E. MacDonald, ’30
Frank R. MacElvain, ’53
Ian R. MacKenzie, ’63
John D. MacLaurin, ’65
Fred C. MacSorley, ’54
Robert H. Madden, ’34
Thomas M. Madison, ’53
Leon E. Magnus, ’43
James D. Mahoney, ’28
Clifford F. Malley II, ’54L
Altred N. Mangino, ’38
William H. Mann III, ’67L
John P. Manning, ’55
John T. Manning, ’59
Lawrence F. Mansfield, ’44
Francis M. Mantz III, 59
David N. Marchese, ’66
John W. Marshall, ’23
Franklin F. Martin, ’55L
H. Thomas Martin Jr., ’41
John K. Martin Jr., ’31
Lincoln E. Martin, ’35
Walter I. Martin Jr., ’32
Michael D. Massengill Jr., ’29
Patrick C. Mathes Jr., ’35
Charles W. Mathews, ’26
Murrell O. Matthews Jr., 41
Erle A. Maue, ’24

Raleigh A. Mauzy, ’25
Benjamin D. Maxey, ’31
Walter J. Maytham III, ’53
John McBee, ’37

Ralph F. McBride, ’50
Lawton McCandless, ’43
James E. H. McCauley, ’45
Alvin B. McClelland Jr., ’37
Carl P. McCoy, ’56
William A. McCoy, ’08
Martin S. McDonough, ’07L
Douglas S. McEvoy, ’64
Mark D. McGaughey, ’69
Wiley F. McGill, ’11

Daniel G. McGinn, ’76
Joel J. McGinnis, 30
Francis M. McGinty, ’25
Terence I’. McGreevy, ’58
Arnold B. McKay, ’63
James N. McKay, ’33
Andrew J. McKelvey, ’57
Mark S. McKinney, ’71
Charles A. McKnight, ’23

William C. McLaren, ’43

John P. McLeod, ’67
Randall M. McNabb, ’23
Peter R. McPherson, 55
Ronald J. McQuillin, 55
Frederick W. McWane Jr., ’38L
Charles A. Mead Jr., ’44
Max Meadors, ’10

Wells Mears, ’38

Russell H. Mechlin, ’15
Harry H. Meeks, ’38
William C. Meglitz, ’59
Thomas R. Mercein, ’39
Charles C. Mercogliano, ’76
A. Lee Merrill, 68
Addison H. Merrill, ’28
Kenneth R. Merrill, ’43
Joseph V. Mersch, ’20
Peter C. Meyer, ’50
Dennis W. Michaud, ”73
Alexander S. Miller, ’27
Burr C. Miller III, 59
Harry A. Miller, ’38

James I. Miller, ’35

John E. Miller Jr., ’48
William S. Miller II, ’67
William F. Mills, 52
Charles T. Milne, 68
David M. Mims, ’27
Frederick M. Mindel, 66
Laurence B. Mindel, ’59
Albert Miranda, ’15
Edward Mischler, ’08L
Dewey L. Mitchell, ’49
Dorsey O. Mitchell, ’25
Thomas F. Mitchell Jr., ’70
Michael P. Mohler, ’54
Louis B. Mongeau, ’64
Harold E. Montague, ’37
Martin J. Montague, ’35L
Herman P. Montgomery, ’11
Peter T’. Montgomery, ’58
William E. Montgomery, ’04
Wiliam H. Montgomery III, 69
Clarence V. Moore Jr., ’49
Horace R. Moore, ’01L
James W. Moore, ’59

John E. Moore, ’65

Lynn V. Moore, ’57

Parker H. Moore, 69

Scott L. Moore Jr., 57
Robert E. Mopsikov, ’25
Asa S. Morgan, ’11

Charles D. Monarta, 59
Edward H. Mornis, 69
Robert Mornis, 38

Felix N. Morrison, ’31

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

For members and their immediate families presents Charter trips continue to be an exceptional
value despite increased fuel costs and currency

PICK A TRIP 1977 prices. Moko your reseriton MGMT

 

PARIS/CHATEAUX/ "our Trp Includes:
ZURICH/THUN

@ Deluxe accommodations for 4 nights in Paris at the PARIS
SHERATON*

August 13-28, 1977

Dulles Departure

@ Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Paris
ES aaa

@ Charming accommodations in tours for 3 nights at the HOTEL
DE L’ UNIVERS, HOTEL CRIDEN, or LE ROYAL *
® Continental breakfast daily in Tours
@ Jet transportation from Paris to Zurich tt
@ Deluxe accommodations for 4 nights in Zurich at the magnifi-
cent, new MOVENPICK HOLIDAY INN***
Welcome wine and cheese party in Zurich
Continental breakfast daily in Zurich
Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Zurich
to Thun via the spectacular Brunig Alpine Pass
Charming Alpine accommodations in Thun for 3 nights at the
ELITE HOTEL THUN or HOTEL FREIENHOF ***
Swiss Continental buffet breakfast daily in Thun
Traditional wine and cheese party in Thun
Exciting low cost optional tours available
U.S. departure tax ($3.00) included
All gratuities for bellmen, chambermaids, and doormen
All round trip transfers and luggage handling from airport to hotel
Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation
an Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality Desk, staffed by
ai ee oc | on-site team of professionals
aa *Some tours will be 3 nights Paris/4 nights Tours.
** Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge.
***Some tours will be 3 nights Zurich/4 nights Thun.
as pes , t Departure taxes of France (approx. $4.64) and
Voll. Switzerland (approx. $2.94) not included.

eal Ke ~ tt Subject to Fifth Freedom Approval. If Fifth Freedom Approval is not obtained,
surface transportation will be provided via first-class train accommodations.

   
   

to Tours, the Heart of the Chateau Country

Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $150.00

 

 

 
 

 

Your Trip Includes-

® Round trip jet transportation to Nairobi (meals and
beverages served aloft**).

Deluxe accommodations at the Nairobi Hilton or

the Nairobi Serena Hotel

@ Continental breakfast daily in Nairobi

DELUXE @ Deluxe accommodations for two nights at Taita Hills

5 Game Lodge
Columbus Day Holiday @ Game Run in Tsavo Park in your private chauffeured

October 2-13, 1977 mini-bus

Dulles De pa rture @ Three full meals per day at Taita Hills, including one

evening's dining and game viewing at Salt Lick Lodge
$799 '

@ Deluxe accommodations for three nights at the Mt.
(+15% Tax & Service)

Meru Hotel in Arusha
© Continental breakfast daily in Arusha
Per person-Double occupancy
Singte Supplement - $150.00

AFRICA

 

 

 

@ Game Run through Amboseli Game Reserve in your
private chauffeured mini-bus

@ Exciting low cost optional tours available

e U.S. Departure Tax ($3.00) included

e Allround trip transfers and luggage handling from
airport to hotel

e All gratuities for baggage handling, hotel services and
taxes, as well as entrance fees to all places of interest
and to all game parks in the itinerary are included

@ Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation

e Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality Desk staffed
by on-site team of professionals

    

 

** Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge

+ Nairobi departure tax of approx. $3.00 not included.
Visa fees are not included; Our travel agent will
process visas.

ee

For further information, contact and mail deposits to: W. C. Washburn, Washington and Lee University Alumni Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450 — PHONE: (703) 463-9111, Extension 214, 318

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

CF

 

 

Available Again

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

(Wedgwood)

 

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

 

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

 

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

