 

 

 

ol

SUPPLEMENT TO

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 47, Number 4, May 1972

William C, Washburn 7400000000. cccceceeeestseeeees Edttor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
A. Michael Philipps ’64 a eeccntenveesnlbadeetses Associate Editor

and Photographer
Robert S. Keefe, ’68..............cccccceces Contributing Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter... ccc Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

It’s Kennedy on the Seventh «0.00.00... ]
Convention Highlights 2.0.0.0... 3
Lens on the Delegates 2000.00... 4
Demands for Order and Realism ..............0....0........ 6
Huntley Speaks at VM1 .................. evoubusvanseausteetenee. 8
Warner is Navy Secretary ..0..0.0000000.00.ccccccccceeeee. 9
Contact 772 icc eeccessceceescsteesessessnseneesiens 10
Campus NEWS oui. ccccccccecsssscsscecseescesesessesentens 14
Athletics icc cccceecsccececesescstesessnsesseseereesees 23
Chapter News ou... Sseacosesuspereteetaess 25
0) ETS C0) 27
Tn Memoriam ooo. cceeceseesesevevereeees 34

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RicHarp H. Turret, ’49, Short Hills, N.J.
President

A. CHRISTIAN CoMPTON, ’50, Richmond, Va.
Vice Prestdent

T. Haut Crarke, 38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Upton BEALL, ’51, Tyler, ‘Texas
RICHARD D. HAyneEs, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
WILLIAM H. Hier, ’38, Chicago, Il.

S. L. Kopa.p, JRr., 43, Memphis, Tenn.

J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. ALVIN PuILpott, ’45, Lexington, N.C.
Emi. C. RASsMAN, III, ’41, Midland, Texas
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, 755, New Orleans, La.
EvERETT TuckER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the cover: The colorful hats on our cover were
standard headgear for the student delegates who
participated in W&L’s 1972 Mock Democratic Con-
vention. After seven exhausting ballots, the stu-
dents came up with a draft of Sen. Edward Ken-
nedy, an outcome that seemed to surprise the dele-
gates themselves. The real Democratic convention
in Miami Beach in July will tell whether the W&L
men were talking through their hats in May. Con-
vention coverage starts on Page 1.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by Robert S. Keefe

 

Delegates cheer as Gov. Carter begins keynote address.

Washington and Lee students drafted Sen. Edward
M. Kennedy on the seventh ballot in their 1972 Mock
Democratic National Convention, historically the most
accurate such event in America.

Though Kennedy was never formally nominated, a
movement to draft him picked up steam in the third
round, when a coalition led by Massachusetts with pri-
vate assurances in advance of support from Ohio and
Illinois abandoned Sens. George McGovern and Ed-
mund Muskie, delivering a total of 52314 delegate votes
into the Kennedy camp by the end of the ballot. ‘The
draft caught on in the fourth and fifth ballots, and by
the dinner break—nine hours after balloting began—Ken-
nedy had come within three votes of the 1,509 required
for nomination.

On the sixth, he faltered a little, dropping to 1,335, as
Muskie and Sen. Hubert Humphrey supporters made a
last-ditch effort to stop Kennedy, pooling forces to give
Muskie 941 delegate votes.

On the seventh, however, supporters of McGovern—
who had been slipping badly ever since the third, receiv-

May, 1972

W&L’s mock Democrats nominate
Ted Kennedy after seven long ballots

ing just 243 on the sixth—jumped aboard the Kennedy
bandwagon. A shift of 116 votes from the California
delegation was the crucial ingredient, though actually
it was 15 votes from Arizona that put Kennedy over the
top at 9:59 p.m.—almost 12 hours into the nominating
session.

It was the big-states bloc that did it for Kennedy—250
from California, 246 from New York, Pennsylvania’s 182,
another 166 from Illinois, the 153 Ohio votes, 126 from
Michigan, 102 from Massachusetts, as well as smaller
numbers from smaller industrial states, primarily in the
North, Midwest and West.

With several delegations committed as the result of
state primaries to McGovern for the first ballot, his int-
tial showing was strong—1,20514 on the first, 1,35514 on
the second, and 1,48314 before changes on the third. But
then he faded quickly. The pros had been waiting, wait-
ing for McGovern’s candidacy to burn itself out early as
they knew all along it would. He lost 343 by switches fol-
lowing the third ballot, then dropped further on each
subsequent ballot: to 75514 on the fourth, 315 on the

]

 

 

 

holding its Presidenti
Convention balloting),

5. attorney general,
then the students have

a. Etenry
On the second ballot he had
oned him by the thi

 

trying to ‘stage m
the Mock Con-

‘than previous Mock

: delegations were well

e

 

    
  
  

 

ing campaign buttons ¢ on their collars @
_ Chisholm do; —black, female; a Huskie

©

   
   

 

   

 
 

—Only one ee bee broken, the

one that parades never begin on time....
| — RS.K.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e

&
-

ee
3

8
oe

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

ee

 

  

i

   

  

  
 

oi

     
 
   

  
 
  

aks

      

  
   

 

 
    
  

.
~

ex.

 

 

  
  
   

 

  

 
 
 
  

a

oa

   

  

 
 
   
   
  
  
 

 
 
  
 
 

      

E =

Sh

 
  

  
   
     

F

 

an
+L
ae

         

 
 
 

=
ae

=

     

 

             

         

  

 

 

by Charles McDowell

The year of ‘Mock riots, choas,’
demands for order and realism

Charles McDowell, a ’48 graduate
of W&L, is a columnist and Wash-
ington correspondent for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch. This
report appeared in the ‘Times-Dis-
patch on Sunday, May 7.

A student mock convention has
a terrible problem in trying to anti-
cipate the political trend of the real
thing, but it also has advantages. For
example, the students of Washington
and Lee University handled a major
aspect of modern nominating con-
ventions by having a small token mob
ride around town in a jeep with a
sign: “Mock riots, chaos.”

That kind of resourcefulness en-
abled the mock convention to con-
centrate most of its energy on the
business at hand—predicting the
nominee of the Democratic National
Convention at Miami Beach in July.
The W&L students had tried this’
trick for the party out of power 14
times in the past and had been right
10 times, including the last five in a
row.

The students acknowledged stand-
ard convention hoopla with a parade
through Lexington on Friday. There
were floats, bands and actual jack-
asses. George Wallace’s float was, of
course, a school bus, and his backers
carried signs proclaiming “red neck
power.” ‘here was a ‘‘Miss Mock
Virginia,” a burly lad in drag. A gang
of hoods from one of the big-city
machines took time to “rob” a Lex-
ington bank during the parade.

Then, at the opening session of the
convention, Gov. Jimmy Carter of
Georgia, the real Gov. Jimmy Carter,
delivered the keynote address. It was

6

 

am

‘ ‘ "

Pe

Charles McDowell, columnist Sen. Gravel is interviewed

 

 

Member of the New York delegation wears clown make-up in “mockery
of convention” at the Mock Convention.

received with remarkably convincing Friday night was devoted to a plat-
mock boredom. form struggle that was conceived not
Wel

 

   
 

 

                      

 

 

  
            

        
                

 

as an exercise in |
but as a half-se

e

 

 

 

national cor
atives finished
excess of zeal,
live with ies 8
‘nominating b

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

e

 

         

 

  

 

         
  

Huntley calls for greater diversity
in education at Gen. Irby’s inauguration

Noting the fact that no one educational mode will
suffice for everyone, President Robert E. R. Huntley
sounded the call for a greater diversity in education in
his address April 15 at the inauguration of Maj. Gen.
Richard L. Irby as 10th superintendent of the Virginia
Military Institute.

“We shall have to accustom ourselves to new patterns
in our midst. It is not the breaking of the older patterns
that is required, but the addition of new ones,” Presi-
dent Huntley told the inaugural gathering of more than
2,000 in the Institute’s gymnasium.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President Huntley hails “grand old” neighbor
at VMI inauguration ceremonies.

8

The President gave the principal address at the 50-
minute ceremonies which officially installed Gen. Irby
as the Institute’s superintendent. A 1939 VMI graduate,
Gen. Irby became superintendent last July following a
31-year career in the Army. He succeeded Lt. Gen.
George R. E. Shell, who retired after 11 years in the
position.

“There are many reasons why it gives me special
pleasure and why I feel particularly honored to have
been asked to speak at this ceremony: the common heri-
tage and the close friendships which have existed over so
many decades between the Virginia Military Institute
and Washington and Lee, between its faculties and ad-
ministrations, and, yes, even its students; the admiration
and respect which these two institutions, often markedly
different in their approaches, have always had for each
other, learning from each other but always proudly in-
dependent in pursuit of their own paths of excellence
and of service,’ President Huntley said.

He noted that educators have been aware of the need
for diversity. “We know full well that the unthinkable
complexity of modern life requires us to increase enorm-
ously the educational routes which a young person—or an
older one, for that matter—may pursue,” he said.

“Each of us, each college and university, is going to
have to be much more self-reliant. Our financial re-
sources—legisatures and private donors—must recognize
that fact; we must make them recognize it and assist
them in discovering ways to discharge their obligations
to the public without grinding us all in the process into
a bland and tasteless mash.”

President Huntley continued, ‘““We must have the in-
ternal integrity and the courage to pursue in each in-
stitution those things we find to be valid for us; those
things we know we do well, we must do better. We, each
of us, must judge ourselves by the success we have with
those whose lives we touch, and we must sincerely sub-
scribe to the oft repeated but frequently ignored concept
that there is more than one path to the truth.”

Referring to the neighboring Institute, he said, “This
grand old institution, whose new leader we inaugurate
and honor today, has in the traditions of its past and in
the spirit of its present the kind of self-reliance and in-
tegrity to which I refer.”

WeL

 

 

   

   

 

=

>

oe

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

’72 was coordi- >

noone a by Roger Mun- —

   

ling for ‘Angela | Davis in :
— his” Washington Post olumn or clashing 4
on CBS's § “Sixty

     
     
  
 
   
 

 

2, Mr. Von
‘subdued out-

 

after talking
an meet he

 
   

 

A a

 

 
 
  
 
  
   

als, the Worst Ten
and, of course, Oldies But

 

 

man takes very seriously, however, the
quality of journalism. His address in Lee
_ Chapel was hardhitting. In an
“Problems of the Modern

  
 
 
 

 

   

 

 

as a reporter in the Mississippi civil
- stru sles of the «

 

  
  

 

 

 

y be | hav-
dous, fun j in n doing his job.

   
   
 

 

 

\CHOLAS VON Horrman 2 a Paukert
- There's no doubt al

     

a
Be

a

a
ayes

 

itt
oS

pee

a

 

 

Philippe Labro
during Contact’s fifth open seminar.

For the duration of the program the
audience’s attention was fixed on the
elderly, conservatively dressed figure seat-
ed in the front of the room. Between
questions this man bowed his head and
motionlessly observed the floor. During
these periods, his silent example domi-
nated the room. When replying to ques-
tions he would raise his head, revealing
the wrinkles that 65 years of living had
left on his features. His answers were
short, yet complete. The man was Wystan
Hugh Auden, poet extraordinaire.

The impact of the “Auden Legend” was
so genuine to those at the seminar that
there seemed to be a reluctance to ap-
proach this god/man. There were un-
comfortable pauses between questions.
Many sat as awed observers.

That evening, Mr. Auden ate with a
small group of students at a dinner hosted

12

Sess

Barclay Sheaks

by Dr. Severn P. C. Duvall and Mr. James
Boatwright of the English Department.
Here, the students discovered that the
personality of Auden the man was as im-
pressive as the enigma of Auden the poet.
By the time the caravan headed back to
Lee Chapel for the evening reading, all
had been struck by the quiet magnetism of
the Englishman. Indeed, one was almost
incapable of associating this “down to
earth” man with the poetry for which he
is acclaimed the world over. This impres-
sion, however, was soon to be erased in
Lee Chapel.

Rumors had spread for weeks that peo-
ple from as far away as Washington, D.C.,
would come to Lexington for the Auden
reading. Certainly the large crowd that
evening seemed to verify the rumors. The
audience was so large that people were
sitting in the aisles and on the stage it-
self. As Mr. Auden approached the pod-

 

ium the crowd welcomed him with a
generous round of applause and then
settled back to enjoy what many had
waited months to hear.

The reading consisted of five sets of
poems with short breaks between sets to
allow the audience to relax and Mr.
Auden to rest his voice. The selections
ranged from some of a somber quality to
others of a lighter, almost jovial nature.
Each poem was so full of life that the
round after round of applause that the
artist received at the end of the reading
seemed an extremely small offering of

thanks indeed.

JosepH HELLER by Meryl Moore

The appearance of author Joseph
Heller proved a fitting finale to the
Contact ’72 program. Encouraged by en-
thusiastic audiences, Mr. Heller provided
the Washington and Lee community with

Wel

W. H. Auden

a potpurri of discussion, lectures, readings
and a brief scene from one of his plays.

The Lee Chapel audience was treated
to a program which centered on Heller’s
best-known work, Catch 22. Included
were readings from the novel, interspersed
with the author’s comments on a variety
of subjects, from technical points in crea-
tive writing to personal philosophy. Mr.
Heller also presented with the aid of an
impromptu student group, the “W&L In-
stant Players,” a scene from the book’s
dramatic adaptation.

Speaking candidly of the motivation
behind this highly popular work, Mr.
Heller said, intended to
bring sanity to the world .. . For me, it

“It was not

was a work of literature. I wanted to be
. and the best novel I could
1953 was

a writer. .
think to begin writing in
Catch 22.”

Yet, despite his easy manner, Mr. Heller

May, 1972

Joseph Heller

remains a rather enigmatic character. A
former bombadier who says he enjoyed
himself in combat, he is the author of a
spoof on life that is regarded by some as
an anti-war novel. An opponent of unde-
clared wars, he rejects pacifism and sup-
ports a strong “machine” like armed
force. Evidently serious in his approach
to literature, he quips that he writes only
in his spare time and because he has noth-
ing better to do.

The theme of his work, Heller main-
tains is not directly related to war.
Rather, he is concerned with the aliena-
tion of individuals from each other, the
mutual fear which exists among bureau-
crats in organizations and the imperson-
ality which characterizes much of Ameri-
can life. As he himself points out, “the
conflicts (in Catch 22) are not so much
between one country and another, but be-
tween individuals, and specifically, be-

 

Hea
ay: I

 

tween individuals and their own. su-

periors.”

CONTRIBUTORS

Bruce Madison—graduating senior from
Louisville, senior member of the Univer-
sity Council.

Norwood (Skip) Paukert—rising senior
from Marietta, Ga., co-chairman, Contact
‘72, editor-elect of the Ring-twm Phi.
Mark McMinn-rising senior from Colum-
bia, Tenn., chairman of the University
Film Committee, co-chairman-elect of
Contact.

Don Marshall—graduating senior from
New Orleans, editor of the Calyx.

Bob Brennan-rising senior from East
Williston, N.Y., president-elect of the Stu-
dent Body.

Meryl from

Moore—graduating senior

Newport News, Phi Beta Kappa.
13

 

ce _developme committee
working g specially with i foundations, c one

at ‘aa unit,
board of Reach-Out,

 

 

. ~ satin t taug

J. Ritz, professor of law,

 

iy

Dean Rusk discusses five major problems confronting

the world in ODK address.

One basis for his optimism, he said, was
that “a family of man is being born as
an organic community” and “this family
is becoming real because of sheer neces-
sity which links you (the students in par-
ticular) with every one else your age.”

The four alumni “tapped” as honorary
members of ODK were James H. Bierer,
’40, of Pittsburgh, Pa., president and
chief executive officer of Pittsburgh-Corn-
ing Corp. and chairman of the Washing-
ton and Lee Annual Fund; Judge Charles
E. Long, Jr., 32, judge of the 134th Dis-
trict Court in Dallas, Texas, who was
counsel to the Judiciary Committee of the
U. S. House of Representatives following

May, 1972

 

World War II; William F. Stone, 33, of
Martinsville, Va., a Virginia state senator
since 1958 and an influential member of
the Senate Finance and Rules Commit-
tees; and Douglas E. (Pat) Brady, ‘37,
superintendent of buildings and grounds
at the University since 1947 and a former
mayor of the City of Lexington.

Student initiates from the School of
Law were Lockart Handley of Arcadia,
Calif., Stephen D. Annand of Charleston,
W. Va., Philip G. Gardner of Martins-
ville, Va., James A. Philpott, Jr., of Lex-
ington, N. C., and Roger A. Pond of
Pittsburgh, Pa.

Undergraduate seniors ‘“‘tapped’” were

Robert A. Carrere of New Orleans,
Michael G. Daniel of Cincinnati, Donald
K. Marshall of New Orleans, Joseph R.
Martin of Midland, Texas, Roger Mun-
sick, Jr., of Summit, N. J., John W. Rob-
inson, IV, of Atlanta, and Donald W.
Weir of Shreveport, La.

Junior undergraduate inductees were
Robert O. Brennan of East Williston,
N. Y., Richard E. Gray of Dallas, Nor-
wood E. Paukert, Jr., of Marietta, Ga.,
and William G. K. Merrill of Greenwood,
Va.

 

Integrity is PBK Theme

Mrs. Anne Gary Taylor, former presi-
dent of Sweet Briar College, was the
principal speaker at the annual Phi Beta

 

Kappa-Society of the Cincinnati conven-
tion on March 21 in Lee Chapel.

Mrs. Taylor, the only woman member
of the Board of Foreign Scholarship, call-
ed for a rededication to integrity in all
phases of national life. Her topic was
“The Search for Wisdom—Something to
Believe In,” with the subhead ‘‘Manners,
Morals, and Mind.”

“It is in relation to the concept of in-
tegrity that we will all survive or perish,”
she said. She said integrity is the basic
word in education and the highest attri-
bute of Washington and Lee as it was in
the lives of the two men whose name the
institution bears. In thinking of the ideal
man to be in charge of our educational
process and of our other institutions, she
said, she favored a melding into one of
the qualities of Theodore Roosevelt,
Ralph Nader, and Lewis F. Powell, Jr.,
the W&L alumnus and trustee who was
recently appointed to the U. S. Supreme
Court.

“This combination,” she said, “might

15

Campus News

 

tackle the problems of the next 20 to 50
years with the vim that is going to be
needed to make it both an enjoyable and
necessary purpose.”

She said it is her conviction, after much
study, that only by appealing to people’s
moral feelings is it possible to recreate a
popular base for increasing popular be-
lief in the integrity—the credibility—of
our government and our system. “Integ-
rity remains our prime requisite,” she
said—‘‘personal integrity, corporate integ-
rity, and national integrity.”

A historian, she was president of Sweet
Briar from 1950 to 1971. She is the author
of many articles in the fields of education
and Colonial history—her specialty—and
has written three books as well.

Twenty-eight persons, including two
recent graduates, were initiated into mem-
bership in the W&L chapter of PBK dur-
ing ceremonies later in the day. The
names of these initiates were reported in
the March issue of this magazine.

It was also announced that George W.
Austin, III, of Norfolk, a sophomore, had
been designated to receive the annual Phi
Beta Kappa award for attaining the high-
est academic average of any student in his
class after four terms at the University.

 

Students Say ‘No’ to Coeds

 

Students have defeated a_ resolution
urging the Board of Trustees to adopt co-
education at the school. By a 535 to 438
vote in a recent referendum, students re-
jected the proposed resolution, which held
coeducation to be desirable for the Uni-
versity.

The 973 votes cast represented approxi-
mately 62 per cent of the student body at
Washington and Lee, an unusually heavy
turnout for spring elections. The refer-

16

 

Mrs. Taylor: PBK speaker
endum was part of balloting for Univer-
sity-wide student offices. The Ring-tum
Phi opposed coeducation. The president
of the student government favored it.
The Board of Trustees has made no
decision about coeducation, but has di-
rected officials to inform it of significant
developments, both on campus and at
other colleges which have recently de-
cided to become coeducational or to re-
main singie-sex, which might effect a
Washington and Lee decision.

 

Former GM Chief Speaks

 

James M. Roche, the former chairman
of the board and chief executive officer
of General Motors Corp., spoke on “Our
Individual Responsibility for Free Enter-
prise” on May 10 in Lee Chapel. His visit
to the campus was sponsored by the
School of Commerce, Economics, and Poli-
tics. Mr. Roche’s talk was the fourth an-

nual Lecture on Public Affairs sponsored
by alumni of the school.

Mr. Roche was chairman and chief
officer at GM from 1967 until his retire-
ment last year. He joined the corporation
in 1927 as assistant to the Chicago branch
manager for the Cadillac Motor Car Co.,
and subsequently became its personnel
director, public relations director, and
general sales manager. In 1957 he became
general manager of the Cadillac division
and vice president of GM and was elected
a director of GM in 1962, a position he
continues to hold. From 1965 to 1967 he
was president of the corporation and
chairman of its executive committee as
well, prior to his election as chairman
and chief administrative officer.

Ross L. Malone, a graduate of Wash-
ington and Lee and trustee of the Uni-
versity, is now senior vice president and
general counsel for General Motors Corp.

 

Black Culture Week

 

“On Being Black” was the theme of a
weeklong series of seminars and cultural
and social activities presented by the
Student Association for Black Unity from
Feb. 28 through March 4 at Washington
and Lee. The programs were organized
and sponsored by black students at the
University.

The activities began with an address by
Prof. Alan Colon, director of black studies
at Virginia State College. The following
day, a full-length film and shorter docu-
mentaries on black life were shown.

Prof. Herbert Marshall, of the black
studies program at Norfolk State College,
delivered the Leslie D. Smith Memorial
Lecture. Smith, a 1969 law graduate of
Washington and Lee, was murdered last
year in Washington, D.C., where he work-

WeL

ed as a lawyer for the education section
of the civil rights division of the Depart-
ment of Justice. Smith was the first black
graduate of Washington and Lee’s School
of Law.

Pupils from Roanoke’s public school
system presented a black cultural con-
cert, and a symposium examined the role
of the black student in the predominantly
white college. Students from several area
colleges joined Washington and Lee stu-
dents in the panel.

The final event in the series of pro-
grams was a “Black Ball,” held Saturday
night in Evans Hall. Music was_pro-
vided by the Dynamics of Lynchburg,
and dress for the affair was formal.

Walter S. Blake, a senior and president
of the black students’ group at the Uni-
versity, said the purpose of the culture
week is ‘“‘to bring to the attention of the
white community some of the many ac-
complishments, idiosyncrasies, and _ prob-
lems of the black race in America.” The
organization intends to sponsor a_ black
culture week annually.

 

Staff Changes Announced

 

William A. Noell Jr., currently director
of student financial aid and assistant dean
of students, will become associate dean
of students and coordinator of the fresh-
man year Aug. 1. He replaces William
McC. Schildt, who will enter the private
practice of law in Baltimore on that date.

William C. Mules, who expects to re-
ceive his Ed.D. degree in June from the
University of Virginia, will replace Mr.
Noell as director of student financial aid.
He will also assume direction of the Uni-
versity’s placement service and will hold
the rank of associate dean of students.

Dr. James W. Worth, currently a clini-

May, 1972

cal psychologist at the Mental Health
Center in St. Joseph County in South
Bend, Ind., has been named to the newly
created position of University counseling
psychologist.

Kenneth P. Lane, director of the Stu-
dent Center since 1969,
tional duties as coordinator of student

assumes addi-

volunteer services in the Lexington com-
munity. Mr. Lane has been placement
director since 1970.

The appointment of Dr. Worth “meets
a long-recognized need at Washington
and Lee,’ Dean of Students Lewis G.
John said, by providing a full-time pro-
fessional psychological counseling service
to students and other Washington and
Lee personnel—supplementing the psy-
chiatric counseling service now provided
one day each week by Dr. Terrell Wing-
field of Lynchburg.

Mr. Mules, the newly named financial
aid and placement director, is a graduate

 

William Noell: new Coordinator
of the Freshman Year

of Princeton and Johns Hopkins univer-
sities, and for five years was academic
counselor at the McDonogh School. He
has also taught English and mathematics
at McDonogh and Tabor Academy.

Dr. Worth is a part-time faculty mem-
ber at the University of Notre Dame and
St. Mary’s College and also maintains a
private practice as a psychological counse-
lor. He holds degrees from Ohio State
University, the University of Missouri,
and Colorado State College.

Mr. Schildt, a graduate of the School of
Commerce and the School of Law at
Washington and Lee, joined the law fac-
ulty immediately on his graduation with
honors in 1968, and moved to the dean of
students’ office later that year. He will be
associated with the Baltimore firm of
Miles & Stockbridge beginning Aug. 1.

Mr. Noell, who becomes associate dean
of students and freshman coordinator, is
a graduate of Washington and Lee and
of the University of Virginia School of
Law. He practiced with the Washington
law firm of Kirkland, Ellie & Rowe be-
fore returning to Washington and Lee in
1970.

 

WeL Students in Africa

 

Eight students and their teacher have
returned from a _ unique study-abroad
program in Africa during the University’s
six-week Spring Term.

The to be
among the first such non-Western foreign

new program—believed

study courses in the nation at the under-
graduate level—was conducted by the poli-
tics department in W&L’s School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics. Instruc-
tor for the course was James E. Loesel, a
specialist in African politics and culture.
The students carried out individual re-

17

Campus News

 

search projects as well as participated in
group field trips and classroom activity.
African political, economic, and cultural
leaders served regularly as guests lecturers.
The participating students were Francis
H. Evatt of Greensboro, N.C.; Conway
W. Hunter, III, of Atlanta; James R.
Kahn, whose parents are in Nairobi,
where his father works with the Agency
for International Development, a unit of
the U.S. State Department; Malcolm M.
Mitchell, Jr., of Culpeper, Va.; Thomas
J. Murray of Charleston, W. Va.; Charles
D. Perry of Birmingham, Ala.; James F.
Spaulding of Chase City, Va.; and James
Yursick of Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

 

Student Composer Honored

 

Peter Homans, a senior from George-
town, Conn., won honorable mention in
the annual competition for the Arnold
Salop Memorial Award, sponsored by the
Southeastern Composers League. Homans’
entry in the contest was an original com-
position for viola and piano.

 

Philidor Trio Performs

The Philidor Trio, devoted to recreat-

 

ing authentic music from the “splendid
century” for soprano, harpsichord, and
flute or recorder, presented a program of
arias and harpsichord music on March 14
in Lee Chapel. The program was spon-
sored by the Washington and Lee Con-
cert Guild.

The trio’s concert included arias, harp-
sichord works, and other music of Bach,
Scarlatti, Bersanti, Galuppi, and Pergolesi.
The Philidor Trio, named for Anne Dani-
can Philidor, an eighteenth century gen-
tleman, uses authentic instruments and
prepares its performances from original

18

manuscripts wherever possible, to re-

create as precisely as possible the music
in the manner it was originally performed.

 

Student Body Officers

 

Robert O. Brennan, a rising senior
Ni FS
elected president of the Washington and

from East Williston, has been
Lee Student Body for the coming year.
William G. K. Merrill, a rising senior
from Greenwood, Va., was named vice

 

president; and Lewis F. Powell, III, a
rising junior from Richmond, was elected
secretary.

Both Brennan and Merrill were “tap-
ped”” as members of Omicron Delta Kap-
pa this year, an unusual distinction for
juniors. Brennan, an English major, is a
son of Mr. and Mrs. B. Elliot Brennan;
Merrill is a son of Mr. and Mrs. Robert
E. Merrill and is a major in business and
public administration; Powell is a son of
Associate Justice of the U. S. Supreme

Student Body officers for the 1972-73 year are William G. K. Merrill,
Lewis F. Powell, II], and Robert O. Brennan.

WeL

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Campus News

 

dent financial aid committees, which
must award the several honors scholar-
ships, including the Robert E. Lee, Basil
Manly, and Ronald O. Scharnberg Mem-
orial scholarships, among the most dis-
tinguished the University can present.
“Scholarship Weekend” is held each
spring, and a number of the best-qualified
applicants for financial assistance who
have already been accepted for admission

were invited to participate.

 

Huntley Addresses Group

 

President Huntley was the speaker at
the spring meeting of the National As-
sociation of Manufacturers’ education
committee meeting in New York on
March 22. He spoke to the group on the
areas of mutual concern between the edu-
cational and industrial communities.

One of Washington and Lee’s three
major divisions is its School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics, the smallest of
the 60 such schools accredited by the
Collegiate

American Association of

Schools of Business.

 

Glee Club Serenades Casals

Lots of college glee clubs go on tours

 

over vacation. Washington and Lee’s was
no exception. But few indeed are asked
to sing for Pablo Casals. Washington and
Lee’s was.

It all came about when the 31-voice
club, directed by J. Tucker Cook instruc-
tor in music, decided to schedule Puerto
Rico this year for spring vacation. The
group planned to offer five concerts.

It was the one at the Institute of Puerto
Rican Culture, in old San Juan, that led
Puerto

to the invitation from Casals.

Rico’s leading composer, Hector Campos-

20

 

With Pablo Casals at his home are Temple Smith, a Glee Club member; J. Tucker Cook,
the director; and Barbara Wolff, a Hollins exchange student.

Parsi, was there, and he heard the W&L
club sing Nigra sum, one of Casal’s own
compositions. Campos-Parsi thought the
master ought to hear it, and he proceeded
to make the arrangements. Manuel Casia-
no, Puerto Rico’s director of economic
development, had heard the Washington
and Lee Glee Club earlier in its tour, and
he too was enthusiastic—enough to ar-
range transportation to Casals’ home for
the group.

The glee club already had on its pro-
gram two songs by Anton Dvorak, a
Casals favorite, and sang them for the
master. Then he asked the members to
go on with their repertoire, which in-
cluded works by Orlando di Lasso, Pierre

de la Rue, Hans Leo Hassler and Vincent
Persichetti.

A footnote in musical history: Wash-
ington and Lee’s Glee Club achieved the
special distinction, via “Sounds of Sil-
ence” and “Scarborough Fair,” of intro-
ducing the 95-year-old master to Simon
and Garfunkel.

And, it is reported, Casals responded
with bravos.

 

Exhibitions Galore

 

Recent art and photograph exhibits on
campus have included:

A one-man exhibition of paintings by
Larry Alexander, a W&L sophomore from

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| Hinely i isa junior
| Cotemay is a sophomore English major,

State in ‘Vietnam; Wilsc

 

 

 

 

 

 

A el Staniar, business manager of | the

  

m Marietta, Ga.;
from 1 Jacksonville, Fla.;

" Paukert is a junior fro

 

  

 

er is with the Depart

 

 

son is” a jones

 

~ whose _ Parents are ‘residing at Seymour >

   

     

   

ns ~ i Hore, ona ~: Cs € Chri iss i

  

the third epnual film

 

1 University | of E Virginia, joined
tington and Lee’s faculty in 1964.

 

 

 

 

n ropist who gave approximately

 

250,000 to Washington College while
Robert E Lee was ‘its: president, is the
subject of a new bi

 

 
 

sity Press. The

vritten by Dr.

       

ody, was \

| “Franklin Parker, professor of education

at West Virginia University, after 17
years’ research. He began work on the pro-

 

/ ject | uae a doctoral student at George

 

honor. in “the -

 

 

 

 
  
   
  
   
 
  

 

 

ios graphy, just published —
- by the Vanderbilt Uni vel
book, George Peabo

 

Another Tasha

ae The name of I. Clinton Miller, |
- 65 Law, was inadvertently omitted |
: from : a list of Washington and Lee |

& alumni who served i in, 1 the 1972, ses |
7 sion of the Vil sinia - General As _

   

 

o .

7 sembly that appeared in the March ot
issue of this magazine. Mr. Miller, a 7
Republican, | was a member of the : .
| ‘House of Delegates from the district _
that includes his hometown of |
Woodstock. ‘The editors regret the
“oversight. The addition of Mr. Mil-
ler to the list brougl fo
7 number of WEL men who were | OF
Delegates or Senators i in 1972,

 

 

ht to 15 the |

 

College this spring.

 

 

for improvements in the quality of inter-
tional ¢ mmunication | have largely
1. “The auetty of nonmilitary
1C n remained the same; there
st more of in” he | notes.

y use of satellites
: have: also failed

   
     
 

 

  
   
 

provide seco

on, * having w won

   

 

 

Athletics

 

Lacrosse team gets NCAA bid,
highlights year of Championships

Athletics at Washington and Lee are
on the upswing. Improvement was re-
corded in the won-lost records of each of
the University’s 12 sports this year.

Capping it off were titles in swim-
ming, basketball, baseball, golf, and ten-
nis, as W&L won the big bell, symbolic
of the overall College Athletic Confer-
ence championship. And the Generals’
nationally-ranked lacrosse team won 12

of 14 games and was one of eight teams
selected for the NCAA post-season na-
tional championship tournament.

For W&L, it was the third crown since
the league was founded in 1962. Wash-
ington University has won six times and
Southwestern once. The Generals’ other
championships were in 67-68 and 68-69.

This was the “year of the champion-
ships” at W&L. First, the CAC _ basket-

 

Ted Bauer, who scored two goals in a 10-9 loss to Virginia, tries to work the ball for
another shot. Despite the loss, WeL made the NCAA lacrosse tournament.

May, 1972

ball tournament was held in February
in the new Doremus Gymnasium addi-
tion. Then, in March, came the NCAA
National Swiming and Diving Cham-
pionships for college division teams. Eas-
tern Michigan emerged as the winner
from among the 88 schools and 412
swimmers who participated. Finally, in
April, came the National Collegiate Rug-
by Championships. Sixteen teams from
all over the country—including Navy,
Notre Dame, Princeton, and LSU—com-
peted. Tiny Palmer College from Daven-
port, lowa defeated the Naval Academy,
28-17, in a thrilling championship con-
test.

Here’s a synopsis of the winter and
spring sports, at press time:

Coach Verne Canfield’s basketball Gen-
erals posted their sixth straight winning
season and won a share of the CAC title
with a 17-9 overall record. In those six
years, the Generals have won 108 of 149
games, an excellent .725 percentage. No
less than 11 of W&L’s 26 games this win-
ter were decided by four points or less,
with the Generals winning seven of
them. Three times W&L went into over-
time, winning each time.

The highlights of the season included
another victory over Navy, 57-56, the
third year in the last four the Generals
have turned back the Middies at Anna-
polis. Washington and Lee repeated as
conference champions—the fifth title in
the last six years and third in a row—but
this one was slightly tainted. Ihe powers-
that-be decreed this year that the tourney
be a three-night round-robin affair, even
though they were aware it could end up
in a three-way tie for the championship.
That’s exactly what
W&L, Centre, and Southwestern all post-
ing 2-1 records. The Generals made nerv-

23

happened, with

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

; 2 thletics

 

  
 

ous wrecks of their fans by edging Se-
lee on | the first | ment 78-76; shaving

 

     
 
 

it even. selon agains nst_ Centre the next

 

: _ The Generals were led Ly the

 

   

    

, = ‘Junior guard Doug

 
 
 

 

on two 5 witining: exelay-t teams. He set t meet,
“pool, s school," a Sonfenenes necords: in

  

r to > Southwestern, 79-78, the “Tas - 1

nce. = and: — (honorable - 1

elan ee a new season record for assists E

   

mpionships (held at the new

 

 
  
 

 

head coach

“North-South College

neva a IN. -Y. in June. |

aseball, coach Joe Lyle’s team start-

ed st doubly suffered through a disastrous —

‘spring vacation —
ame back at sea

  

ssvimmers. qualified for the

1): ‘Clark | in three events, Bill Broth-
of, c sharleston, W.Va. in one, and ©
. ye relay t team of Hal: Catlin,

the” ‘national “college division 3

“cokrobuaglie in 1971, was chosen 7

 

 

for the South in the annual

eason’s end to win six of

      
  
   
  
 
 
   

ng over all: the confer-

 

Po ee

- All-Star Game in

 

 

 

trip in Florida, then

er oa) 118 record,

et peace

 

 

 

Sot vin’ a 13-7 rec-

 

   
    

 

:

WASHINGTON, D.C. Athletic Director
Bill McHenry was the speaker at an an-
nual holiday luncheon on Dec. 29 at the
Army-Navy Downtown Club. He discuss-
ed the overall athletic program at the
University and introduced John Piper, as-
sistant football coach and head wrestling
coach, who discussed those sports. Piper
also showed movies of the W&L-Sewanee
game. Outgoing president Edson B. Olds,
61, presided at the meeting which was at-
tended by alumni, students home on vaca-
tion, and prospective students. Alumni
Secretary Bill Washburn was also a guest
at the meeting. In a business session the
following officers were elected: Joseph J.
Smith, III, ’60, president, and Robert J.
Frost, Jr., 68, vice president.

ROCKBRIDGE.
guests met with alumni from the Lexing-

More than 20 student

ton area Feb. 25 in Evans Dining Hall on
campus to discuss mutual interests and
build Robert
Mish, ’46, handled arrangements. In a
B. Winfree, III, °59,
was elected president of the chapter and

town-gown relationships.

business session, P.

Paul M. Penick, ’63, was elected secre-
tary-treasurer. Named to the board of di-
rectors were William G. Bean, Jr., 751,
I. Tom Baker, ’55, Eric L. Sisler, ’66, and
William A. Noell, Jr., 64.

SOUTHERN OHIO. Alumni and par-
ents of current students gathered in Cin-
cinnati on Feb. 29 to hear Dean of Stu-
dents Lewis John and Director of Devel-
opment Farris Hotchkiss. While in the
area, Dean John visited several high
schools. Robert W. Hilton, ’38, was in

charge of arrangements.

LYNCHBURG. The
tion for outstanding service to Washing-

Lynchburg Cita-

May, 1972

 

ton and Lee was presented on March 4 to
Rupert N. Latture, professor of politics
emeritus and adviser to President Hunt-
ley. The presentation was made at the
Lynchburg chapter’s annual meeting at
the James River Club, with president
John Alford, ’59, presiding. The citation

At left, Robert C. Wood, III, ’62,
presents Lynchburg Citation to
Prof. Emeritus Rupert N.
Latiure. Below, among those who
gathered for the chapter meeting
in Houston are Tom Kelsey, ’66;
Mrs. Lindsey Short; Lindsey
Short, °65; Mrs. Kelsey; a guest;
and John Yost, ’65.

 

honored Prof. Latture for ‘‘unselfish and

unsurpassed service to his alma mater as:
A student who established enduring rec-
ognition of leadership ability; a beloved
teacher dedicated to the high achieve-
ments of his students; a couneslor im-
bued with wisdom and patient under-

25

 

 

ee

as accurate

 

 

 

 

  

 

   

 

 

 

  

 

| i 4 of | ODK. at a

 

in and L L

 

“McHenry ‘and “Piper
ex of ‘the: fall football

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a ee

        

 

Oo

         

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a | BS

ee te ee
Oo pee a nt et ee ees :

 

wo
De es
=

oo

 

 

 

 

 

 

4
\
\
;

 

 

- the Gilman Fellc

 

   
  

 

 

| Ri Perry, III to eed
; Laura | “Brand of Houston, Mis. on Au 1g.

 

 

  
  
  
 
 

oe

r ‘ict > aeeoiney in
Cali oe a Feb. 7. tan began
“state bar of California and was a past presi-

  
   
 
 
 
    
 

- He was de

 

AR D: C CLAR Woops FAULKNER, jr. to
Teresa Elaine Lioy on March 26 in New
“York: 1 city. Faulkner orkir | :

  
 
 
 
   
 

jon M. Mc euEL Je ha 7
active | ilitary

an will Hae

    
  
  
 
    
 

/ ‘il, 1971. Be ore entering the ministry i in
an 1918, Llewellyn. taught in the public school
_ system in Georgia for Several” (cas He
badhaie, in one ened Geo gia |

SIDNEY H. ‘KELSEY, ye n th
of Jaw under the | firm

 
  
 

“1910

i “BERNARD M. “Kruc, a ‘retired doctor in
the public health service, died May 8, 1971

with the
ston, \ in New York City. During World War I,

 

‘Star and sever

   
 

dent of the Orange ia ate aie Association.

tion, LISD] ed
preservation of monuments and records im-

firm of ee as ciated vith the fen

 

Krug served in the USS. Army. After the
Armistice, ae _ established a hospital in

 

Cou. -RayMonp- KENNY, a ‘retired Army
officer, died Jan. 1 in Grafton, W.Va. Col.
Pilot a World War I and

  

Kenny was” a

  

War 1 ie = Italy with the Allied

 
 

Commission. Col. aos received the Bronze

   
 
 

 
  
  
 
 

Tow /ARD_ ZERKLE, former president
s Albans in St. Albans

. S, joining the firm

 
 
  
 
  

 
 

v TON, an expert Knox.
ridg “player, died Feb. 29. He
was field auditor for ‘Travelers Insurance Co.
for, 38 “years until his Tetirement.

  

owner of Cabell Coal
_ died Feb. 14. Cabell
at the Georgia Military
lle, Ga L. ae service with

 
   

    

in | 1957 meri al Fou ‘tthe

 

JosePH R Lone, an attorney in St. Louis
and Clayton, Mo., died Feb. 25. Long re-
ceived his law ¢ from Colorado Uni-
rsity — ) od cide ine Colorado
ved to St.

  
  
   
 
  
   

 

& Stribling for | over 85 vas.

wer

 

was with |

eo

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe

 

 

 

 

served as councilman Lees Jee 1959
Weller 1 was a - er of th

 

 

ote

na a Frm Va.,

 

 

 

g ae “Most recently he a
“eandece of The Americas and
— Civi ivilization | Dy Darcy Ribiero and

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘

ANOTHER

 

SPECIAL
ALUMNI
CONFERENCE

NOVEMBER 16-18, 1972

THE TOPIC:
Washington and Lee Today...
Its Plans... Its Future

Much about your University is changing. It now has
exciting plans for continued development. The
Special Alumni Conference to be held November
16-18, 1972, is the fifth in a series of such confer-
ences designed to give a relatively small group of
alumni a three-day, in-depth look at every facet of
Washington and Lee. The conference will feature
small-group discussions that bring all points of
interest into sharp focus. _

Past conferences have been highly successful, enjoy-
able, and worthwhile.

If you are interested in attending the November
conference, please write to William C. Washburn,
Alumni Secretary, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

The Washington and Lee University ©
Alumni Directory — 1749-1970

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

UNIVERSITY It’s a Directory

ALUMNI DIRECTORY
i byt bo)

i
erm,

 

It’s a Document

 

It’s an Answer Book

 

 

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni
Directory is now available at only $5.00 per copy, in-
cluding postage.

Question: Have you ever wondered whether the
father, the grandfather, an uncle of one of your
classmates also attended Washington and Lee?
You'll find this answer and much more in the new
Alumni Directory. Every person who attended W&L
from 1749 on is listed alphabetically, together with
his class, his degree, his address, and his occupation.

Question: Have you ever wanted a full list of the

members of your class or any class? You'll find it in
the Class Listing section of the Alumni Directory.

Question: Have you ever wondered how many W&L
alumni live in Cleveland, in Philadelphia, in Cairo
—anywhere? The Geographical List in the Alumni
Directory will tell you. If you’re passing through,
you can look them up.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be
without this valuable reference book in his home or
office. Use the form below to order your copy today.

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me...................6. copy(ies) of the Washington
and Lee University Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, in-
cluding postage.

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, 14.

Price: $42.00 f.0.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please allow five to six
weeks for shipment
after your order is placed.

