 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

university

SEPTEMBER 1978

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 53, Number 6, September 1978

Wilham G. Washburn, 40... 0 eo eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert.5, Keefe, G8... 2.4 2.0 oe, Associate Editor
Jjetirey LM. Hazel," 77 2. 2 Assistant Editor
Joyce Garter 223.3 ea Editorial Assistant
Sally Mata: 2.0... Be Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Web oy Laiwatt 22.6 l
Anime jo vs. the DIye ici. act ee 8
Fine Arts Workshop: .0...0.5.0605, 4.5 oe 10
Kiffin Rockwell, Brave Flyer 0.0.0.0... cece 12
WoL Gagette 0.0 hoe 14
Chapter NEWS 2.0.24. ee 19
Class Notes folk 21
In Memonani 2.400. ee 30
Gifts from WEL |... oie 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpDwIN J. FoLtz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
Vice President

RICHARD A. DEnNy, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD Balin, ’49, Spartanburg, S. C.
Puivtie R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, ’58, Richmond, Va.
JAMES F. GALLIvVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.
JoHN H. McCormack Jr., ’50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
PAauL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

ON THE COVER: W&L’s renowned Reeves Collection
of porcelain—accompanied by a 16-member delegation
from the University—visited the Republic of China (Tai-
wan) this past summer. In the photo, Reeves Curator
(and University Treasurer) James W. Whitehead and
Mrs. Whitehead are shown at the entrance to Taiwan’s
National Museum of History, where the porcelain was on
display for a month. The calligraphy on the left
reproduces the poster at one banquet: “Welcome to
America’s Washington and Lee University and to
President Huntley and his party.” The story in words and
pictures is on Pages 1-7.

 

 

 

 

W&L IN TAIWAN

The Reeves Collection of Porcelain and a Delegation
Of University Officials Visit the Republic of China

 

 

Washington and Lee’s famed Reeves Collection of
Chinese export porcelain went “home” this summer for
the first time—for an historic display in the National
Museum of History of the Republic of China (Taiwan).

The exhibition of 93 of the most important pieces
from the Reeves Collection was greeted in Taipei, the
capital city, with the most enthusiastic reception
anywhere in its five years of travel.

It was natural that it should be so in Taiwan. The
W&L loan exhibition marked the first time the Chinese
people have seen the porcelain wares their ancestors
created 150 and 200 years ago—the first time, in fact,
according to China’s ambassador to the United States,
James C. H. Shen, that an exhibition of Chinese
porcelain produced specifically for export to the West
had been shown in the land of its origin.

 

 

eee

 

 

Top: At the entrance to Taiwan’s National Museum of History are Ho
Hao-tien (left), director of the Museum and host of the W&L
delegation; Li Chi-mao (second from left) of the Museum, a widely
known painter in his own right and member of China’s National Acad-
emy; and I-Hsiung Ju (at right), artist-in-residence at Washington and
Lee, a native of mainland China, who made many of the arrangements
for the W&L group’s visit. Above: W&L Treasurer James W. Whitehead,
who was responsible for developing the Reeves Collection and has been
its curator since it came to the University in 1967, unpacks the 93 items
sent to Taiwan for the month-long National Museum exhibition.

 

 

 

 

And no less enthusiastic was the greeting the
Chinese nationalists gave to a W&L delegation which
visited Taiwan for eight days—as guests of the
government of the Republic of China and the Pacific
Cultural Foundation—in conjunction with the opening
of the National Museum exhibition. The 16 W&L
representatives were led by President and Mrs. Robert
E. R. Huntley; H. Gordon Leggett, ‘54, a member of
the University Board of ‘Trustees, with Mrs. Leggett;
and Treasurer (and developer and curator of the
Reeves Collection) James W. Whitehead, with Mrs.
Whitehead.

When it opened, Chinese of every social station,
from every walk of life, jammed the National Museum
to view the highlights of the Reeves Collection—

 

 

 

 

 

Top: Mr. Whitehead (left) is shown delivering one of two addresses on
the Reeves Collection and the importance of porcelain in early East-
West trade, at the official opening of the exhibition in Taiwan. Prof. Ju
was his translator. Above left: Director Ho of the National Museum
accepted a plate from the Reeves Collection from Mr. and Mrs. White-
head on behalf of the University. The plate, which became part of the
National Museum’s permanent collection, is a representative example
of early-19th-century export porcelain; the piece was made for the
Brown family of Providence, R.I—ancestors of Louise Herreshoff
Reeves and the first known traders from America to visit the Orient.
Above right: Dr. Jeanne Tchong Koei Li, president of the Pacific Cul-
tural Foundation, charmed the W&L delegation. The Foundation paid
for some of the airfare expenses of the official W&L representatives.

 

 

 

selected meticulously by the Whiteheads to reflect in
microcosm the nature of the cross-cultural influences
between Imperial China and the American Colonies (and
subsequently the brand-new United States). The
Chinese smiled, as Americans do, when they saw the
Declaration of Independence cream pitcher, which
depicts the Signers with distinctly Oriental features;
they stood in reverence as they looked at George
Washington’s dinner plate, for the Chinese draw
important parallels between Washington and Chiang
Kai-shek. Mostly, however, they were awed—as are
those who view it from wherever; Europe and the
Orient no less than Baltimore and Dayton—at the
Reeves Collection as a spectacular example of “history-in-
porcelain,” the story of 18th- and early-19th-century

 

 

 

 

 

Top left: The China Youth Corps, a volunteer organization similar to the
YMCA in America, was host to the Washington and Lee group at an
information seminar (pictured) and at a “Mongolian barbecue” lunch-
eon. Top right: Three W&L undergraduates studying in Taiwan for the
summer met and guided the University delegation; shown in conversa-
tion with Mrs. H. Gordon Leggett are, from left, Joseph B. Dashiell, ’80;
John D. Stout, ’80, and Davis Ayres, ’79. Above left: The W&L repre-
sentatives visited the homes of several Chinese artists during the course
of their stay; shown is a formidable breakfast given by Kao Yi-hung, one
of China’s most eminent painters, and his wife, also noted as an artist.
Directly above: Taiwanese were fascinated by the porcelain their ancestors
had fashioned centuries ago; they are shown here examining the “hong
bowl” from the Reeves Collection, which depicts the commercial area to
which Western traders were restricted by the Imperial government.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"80

Photo by Joseph B. Dashiell

 

 

aesthetic sensibilities, of American patriotic fervor, of
the importance of family and religion, of commerce
and the very earliest days of East-West trade—and,
hardly least of all, of skillful elegance in craftsmanship.
The visit of the Reeves Collection to its homeland is
only the most recent, though surely the most publicly
dramatic, indication of Washington and Lee’s strong
cultural ties with nationalist China. Throughout the
early years of the 20th century, of course, alumni of
the University played a critical role in the
Westernization of China. In the 1970s, the University
established a spring-term “Study Abroad” program in
association with Taiwan’s College of Chinese Culture;
only this year, a faculty-supervised summer-study
program in Taiwan (the first formal summer session at

 

 

4

   

Top: Chinese studies have become increasingly important in W&L’s
curriculum in the ’70s; Davis Ayres, ’79, is shown studying this summer
at Fu Jen University in Taipei. Above left: Some of the friends the W&L
delegation made in Taiwan over the summer repaid the visit by coming
to Lexington in September as soon as classes began for a cultural-
exchange “variety show,” which took place on the new terrace in front
of Lee Chapel. More than 400 W&L students, teachers, and others
attended the dozen short performances by the 16 visiting Chinese
college students. Above right: Huo Ching-chang, (left), an important
patron of Washington and Lee’s newly inaugurated summer-study pro-
gram in Taiwan, accepts a copy of the book The Architecture of Historic
Lexington as a token of appreciation from the University. Making the
presentation is Dr. Harold C. Hill, director of the University’s East
Asian Studies Program, who was in Taiwan for the summer to direct the
W&L program there.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L) was inaugurated; the entire East Asian Studies
Program, which recently became a full-fledged major,
has focused since its inception significantly on China,
and in fact Chinese individuals and private
organizations have been important supporters of the
program. For many years, the University has been host
to visiting Chinese artists (primarily) and others.

It was recognition of that very special, long-standing
relationship that led to the highlight of the W&L
delegation’s visit to Taiwan—presentation of the
Chinese Cultural Medallion, the highest honor in the
power of the government there to confer ona
foreigner, to President Huntley.

“For many years,” the citation—read by China’s
Minister of Education, Chu Hwei-sen—declared, “the

 

 

Top left: Prof. Ju was called on to speak after banquets in W&L’s honor—
breakfast banquets, luncheon banquets, and elaborate dinner parties
alike—as toastmaster and translator. At left in this photo is Mrs. Robert
E.R. Huntley; at right is Dr. Hill. Center left: President Huntley in
conversation with Chu Hwei-sen, China’s minister of education. The
W&L delegation was enormously impressed by the seriousness with
which the Taiwanese approach education—and the success. Top right:
Mr. Chu presented President Huntley with the Republic of China’s
Cultural Medallion, the highest honor the government can confer ona
foreigner—and only the 11th ever presented. Above left: President
Huntley greets Mrs. Gunsun Hoh, American-educated vice president
of the College of Chinese Culture, and hostess at a memorable dinner
banquet. Above right: Among the sights the Washington and Lee visitors
Saw was Taiwan’s impressive Shrine to the Revolutionary Martyrs. Ina
brief ceremony there, President Huntley placed a wreath on behalf of
Washington and Lee.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

President of Washington and Lee University in
Virginia... has continued to send groups of teachers
and students to visit China and engage in cultural
exchange, exhibitions of works of art, and various
other activities. His contributions to the promotion of
Sino-American relations have been numerous. We
specially bestow the Cultural Medal in order to thank
him for his great contributions.”

President Huntley’s medallion—W&L’s—was only
the 11th ever presented.

Most of the W&L delegation’s eight days in Taiwan
was devoted to visiting places of cultural, educational
or historic importance; it was characterized by vip
treatment in every possible detail. W&L’s hosts were
anxious to show the reasons why they regard their ties

 

 

6

 

Top left: A night at the opera. Gen. Wang Shen was host to the Washing-
ton and Lee visitors at a performance of two traditional Chinese operatic
works, and afterwards the group posed on stage with some of the
performers. Identifiable among the W&L group are, from the left,
Gordon Leggett of the Board of Trustees and Mrs. Leggett; Dean
Emeritus Leon F. Sensabaugh (behind two garbed actresses); Prof. Ju
(partly hidden behind Mrs. Huntley); the Huntleys; Mrs. James, W.
Whitehead (holding purse at right), and Mrs. Staunton Sample of
Shreveport, who accompanied the group (her late husband was a mem-
ber of the Class of 1938). Above left: The group visited the studios of the
Chinese Television Service, met with its president, saw the filming of a
soap opera, and visited backstage afterwards. Top right: A visit to the
Chung Shan Pavilion outside Taipei. The majestic facility, which was
compared with Camp David, was a favorite summer retreat for Chiang
Kai-shek, and ceremonial activities and high-level conferences are fre-
quently held there. Above right: Mr. Huntley and Prof. Ju in conversation
with Gen. Wang, the four-star Taiwanese defense officer.

h—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

with the United States as both logical and essential—
culturally as well as politically.

They did it in superb fashion.

Taiwan preserves the legendary Chinese
graciousness. It has all the natural beauty that has
characterized Chinese painting since the beginning of
art. There are no gentler, more thoughtful, more
industrious people anywhere. In important respects
they have modeled their apporoach to civic life after
the 200-year American experiment; they have taken it
(as one member of the W&L delegation marveled) and
adapted it to a country in constant military peril, the
size of half of New England—and in only 30 years they
have stabilized it and (in some ways which Americans
might well envy) refined it.

 

 

 

 

Top left: A group of China’s most prominent artists conducted a fast-
paced demonstration for the Washington and Lee guests. Top right: Mr.
and Mrs. Kao Yi-hung, at left, painted a watercolor picture as the W&L
delegation looked on, then presented it to the University. Above left: The
delegation’s hosts took them halfway across Taiwan to see the breath-
taking East-West Highway and the Taroko Gorge (pictured). The two
women in the center are Mrs. Sample and Mrs. Whitehead. Above center:
As the trip progressed, the W&L visitors became increasingly proficient
with the use of chopsticks; President Huntley proves it with an egg.
(Another member of the delegation was not so skillful, and when he
tried the trick, he mortified himself and sent the group’s host to the dry-
cleaner’s.) Above right: Culinary elegance was routine; the Chinese regard
it ideally as a visual art as well as gastronomic. Nothing in the course of
the trip, however, approached the achievement of the chef who pre-
pared lobster with electrified eyes—maraschino cherries with tiny bat-
tery-powered Christmas-tree lights inside.

 

 

Lexington, Virginia.
January 22, 1917.

Rev. J. Sidney Peters,
Commissioner of Prohibition,
Richmond, Virginia.

My dear Sir:

I have been informed that a warrant
has been issued for Miss Annie J.
White, the librarian of Washington and
Lee University, for violation of the
prohibition law and that the matter has
been sent to the Grand Jury. You, of
course, know that I am in full
sympathy with the prohibition law and
with your efforts to see that it is fully
enforced, but I feel that it should be
enforced in a reasonable and common
sense way with a view to accomplishing
its objects and without punishing any
who have not intentionally violated the
law and whose acts have done nothing
to encourage the evils against which
the law is intended to provide. The
facts in regard to this case can be
substantiated to be as follows:

Miss Annie White is a lady of the
highest standing and character, has
been a resident of this community as
one of a very large and prominent
family all her life. She has been
librarian of the University of
Washington and Lee for some twenty-
five or thirty years, and from this you
will see that she is reaching an age
which must soon necessarily justify her
retirement from active labors.

The facts in regard to the pur-
chasing of the liquor are as follows:
About the 15th of November Miss
White had shipped to her from
another State one quart of rum used
for cooking, valued at fifty-five cents.
She, being innocent of the law,
supposed that when the package came
it would be delivered as any other
express package. She had ordered it to
be used in her Thanksgiving dinner,
but Thanksgiving Day arrived and she
had not received her package so she
called up the express office to know if
it had come, and was advised that it
had, and she inquired why it had not
been delivered to her, and was told
that the character of the package
demanded her presence to receipt for
the same. As it was too late to be used at
Thanksgiving she was not much
concerned about getting it and did not
call for it until the Saturday night
before Christmas, when she called at
the express office after the hour of five
o'clock and was advised that she could

not get it. The next day being Sunday
and the following day being Christmas
Day she could not get it until after
Christmas, and thus her opportunity
to use it both on Thanksgiving and at
Christmas had been frustrated. Again
being unconcerned about it she left it
in the office until about the 2nd of
January, or possibly a little later, when
she was advised that another package
had arrived for her and was advised to
call and get the same. This turned out
to be one quart of scotch whiskey which
a lady friend in Philadelphia had sent
her. She went to the office to get it and
while there concluded to get the other
package. The agent told her that he
had some doubts about the legality of
taking out both at one time but she
referred to the fact that the quart of
rum had both been ordered and
received at the office more than thirty
days previous, and told the agent that
under the circumstances the law would
not prevent her from getting out the
package, especially when it was known
that the consignee was a person of

Annie Jo
us. the Drys

respectability and had no intention of
violating the law. The agent thereupon
delivered to her both the packages and
she signed for them without having the
remotest idea of what she was signing
other than that it was a receipt for the
liquor. These are the facts as I am
reliably informed.

It is not only my own opinion, but it
seems to be the opinion generally, that
no grand jury would indict Miss White
under the circumstances and that no
jury would convict her. The situation is
embarrassing not only to Miss White
but to the University and to the public,
and especially to that part of the public
which are thoroughly interested in the
wise and faithful enforcement of the
prohibition law, and as we have heard
is producing much satisfaction among
those who would like to see as much
discredit as possible thrown upon the
law. I have been informed that several
similar cases have been looked into by
your Deputy and very wisely dismissed.

You will, of course, thoroughly
understand the especial features of the

law which Miss White’s conduct has
apparently broken. I am advised that
among these features it is claimed that
Miss White is not such a head of a
family as would justify her in receiving
liquor at all. In this regard I can only
state the fact that Miss White owns and
occupies a dwelling on the college
campus, and to supplement her salary
as librarian she regularly keeps house
and takes student boarders in her
home for a consideration.

In conclusion I think I can safely say
that a dismissal of this case will give
entire satisfaction to those who are
endeavoring to uphold your hands,
and will perhaps bring more or less
confusion to those who would thwart
your objects.

I have heard that the Common-
wealth’s Attorney of this County has
stated to your Deputy that any grand
jury will indict Miss White and any
petit jury would convict her. I do not
know that he made such a statement,
but I do know that, so far as I can
gather, there is not a single person who
shares such belief. If he really made
such a remark, it is easily explicable to
those who know him, and should not
prejudice her case.

I hear your Deputy excused two or
three other ladies here who were
technically guilty of violating the law,
and I feel personally certain that a
similar decision in this case also will
advance the prohibition cause in this
community rather than injure it. I
write this as an ardent prohibitionist
and a zealous worker for the cause in
our Virginia campaign.

Sincerely,
Henry Louis SMITH
President

Rupert Latture (who, incidentally, began his
67th year of association with Washington
and Lee this autumn) lately has been sorting
through some of the official papers of W&L
presidents from the early years of the
century. He came across this bijou
concerning the University’s beloved,
legendary Miss Annie Jo White, librarian
for many years and founder of the Fancy
Dress Ball, who apparently also knew how to
have good times herself as well as organize
them for others. By way of background,
before national Prohibition went into effect,
Virginia had its own law which limited each
householder to one quart of “ardent spirits”
a month, and which allowed a female to
purchase her quart only if she qualified as
the “head of a family.” The story has a
happy ending; two weeks after Dr. Smith
wrote this letter, the Rockbridge grand jury
tossed out the charge against Miss Annie Jo.

 

 

eo

 

 

 

 

 

Roanoke Times & World News

: : Miss Annie Jo White in 1938, when Life magazine came to what turned :
; LY se = out to be her last Fancy Dress Ball. Uy

 

 

—_
—"
—
\
\
\
“

HLS KAY

‘ q 7 — 2 \ of
2

——

 
  
  

Z Y s | )
a

 

 

 
 

 

   

 

 

ARTS WORKSHOP’78

If It’s on Campus, It Must Be Summer

Since the beginning of the Rockbridge Fine
Arts Workshop in 1971, Washington and Lee
has offered the program full use of its
campus. DuPont Hall has been program
headquarters each summer, and Lee Chapel
and the campus grounds have been used for
the exhibitions and programs at the close of
each session.

The workshop was organized by five
women with a lively interest in the arts and a
common dedication to providing opportunities
to area children—Rae Hickman (wife of Dr.
Cleveland P. Hickman Jr., professor of
biology), who taught piano; Judy Hotchkiss
(Mrs. Farris; he’s director of development),
dance; Pree Ray (Mrs. George W.; he’s
professor of English), drama; Elise Sprunt
(Mrs. David W.; he’s University chaplain,
Fletcher Otey Thomas Professor of Religion,
and head of the religion department), art;
and Charlene Jarrett (Mrs. H. Marshall; he’s
professor of European history), piano.

Enrollment in the program has nearly
doubled over the past eight years. At the
outset, 67 youngsters from age six to 18
enrolled in the summer workshop. The
enrollment for this past summer, however,
was 130, with a staff of 24 members.

New programs were offered this year in
small-group percussion and wind instrument,

10

 

technical theatre, and poetry and
printmaking. The Workshop has had a Youth
Orchestra for three years as well.

Most financial backing for the Rockbridge

 

 

Fine Arts Workshop comes in the form of
contributions from individuals and area
businesses and occasional grant support from
the National Endowment for the Arts.

 

Photographs
B

Nancy

Dize
Spencer

 

Sea

 

By I. Taylor Sanders IT

‘BEST AND BR

AVEST’

When W&L’s Rockwell Was in the Air, No German Passed

In 1916, The New York Times
followed the exploits of Kiffin Rockwell
with a detailed zeal usually reserved for
rising sports heroes.

But Rockwell was not playing games.

He was one of the gifted young pilots
of the Lafayette Escadrille, whose
American volunteers flew on behalf of
France between April 1916 and February
1918. The squadron’s official history
describes Rockwell as the Escadrille’s
“soul.” He downed the first German
plane credited to the unit on May 18,
1916.

Many of his four-score sorties ranged
above the beleaguered fortress of
Verdun, where nearly a million

 

 

casualties were suffered by German
assault troops and French defenders
during the 1916 campaign. In May of
that year Rockwell wrote:

The most terrible fighting was going on
underneath me the whole time. But I
am not going to try to express my impres-
sions, because I can’t. At the same time
... one of my friends was over my

head, about 1,500 feet high, having a
death struggle with a German machine,
which he succeeded in bringing down.

Rockwell himself downed at least four
German planes before he was killed over
Alsace on Sept. 23, 1916. His

 

Left: Kiffin Yates Rockwell as a student at Washington and Lee, 1911. Right: Kiffin Rockwell’s uniform is the center of focus in this exhibit at the Smithsonian

 

commander said:

When Rockwell was in the air, no Ger-
man passed ... and he was in the air
most of the time. .. . The Best and
Bravest of us all is no more.

An exhibit of memorabilia at the
Smithsonian Institution’s National Air
and Space Museum in
Washington, D.C., tells the Escadrille
story and features Set. Kiffin Rockwell’s
uniform.

A plaque in Lee Chapel honors him.
Rockwell, who attended both
Washington and Lee and Virginia
Military Institute before becoming

  

__

Institution’s National Air and Space Museum; the medals, nine in all, including the Legion of Honor and Croix de Guerre, were donated by Kiffin’s brother, Col.
Paul Rockwell of Asheville, N. C. Below: Clippings from the New York Times, 1916: Kiffin wrote to Paul in June 1916: “For Heaven’s sake, let’s try and shut down
on the publicity about the Escadrille!” The Germans used reports of Rockwell’s death to question America’s stance of neutrality.

     
   

 

 

 

 

   
 

 

AMERJAN AVIA
FRENCH H

__ WIN FRENCH HO
‘Military Medal for Bringing —

   

 

Prince
. but

   

 

PARIS, May 21.— Corporal Kiffen
Rockwell of Atlanta, Ga.. a member of
the Franco-Americag Flying Corps, has
been proposed for promotion to the rank
of Sergeant as a reward for bringing
down a German ae. plane near Hart-

12

  
 

  

and Baisley Shot Down,
Save Themselves by

 

‘noon.

 

Special Cable to The New York Tt
_ PARIS, July’ 24.—Sergeant |
Rockwell] downed his thi
aeroplane over the

north of Verdun on

  

 
 

 
  

  

 

 

“probably the first American” to offer
his services to the French cause.
Rockwell, who said he was “paying my
part of our debt to Lafayette and
Rochambeau,” wrote the French consul
on Aug. 3, 1914, stating that he would
“rather fight under the French Flag
than any other, as I greatly admire your
Nation. If my services can be used by
your country, I will bring my brother,
who also desires to fight” for France.
His brother, Paul Ayres Rockwell, is
also a W&L alumnus. In August 1914,
the two men enlisted in the French
foreign legion. A year later, Kiffin
transferred to the air unit. Paul—who
has been decorated three times with the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Kiffin Yates Rockwell photographed
at Luxeuil French Air Force Base,
April 1916.

French Legion of Honor—remained in
France after the war, where he had a
distinguished career as an author and
journalist. He was with the French army
when France fell in 1940 and spent five
years with the U.S. Air Corps after the
Americans entered the Second World
War.

Col. Paul Rockwell, who now lives in
Asheville, N.C., recently returned to
Lexington with a group touring
Virginia’s Civil War battlefields. He
discussed various memorials to Kiffin in
‘Tennessee, the Carolinas,

Washington, D.C., and in France, where
a ceremony takes place each year at
Kiffin’s grave. Paul Rockwell adds,

 

however, that “the memorial to him
which I cherish the most and of which I
am most proud is the bronze tablet” in
Lee Chapel.

The Lee Chapel is my Shrine of Shrines
[writes Paul Rockwell], a place to wor-
ship and pray and be encouraged.
Merely to walk about the old W&L cam-
pus is healing at all seasons of the year,
and I yearn often to return... . The soul
of anyone who cannot get inspiration by
looking about the W&L and V.M.I. cam-
puses is dead, and I pity him.

 

 

Dr. Sanders is University Historian and
associate professor of history.

 

Left: Kiffin Rockwell at the time of the Battle of Verdun, August 1916; he appears to have aged since April 1916 (picture above). Center: Col. Paul Rockwell, who

attended WSL, 1908-10, on a recent visit to Lexington, his son Kenneth, 52, and grandson, Vance Brown, ’65, are also WSL alumni. Right: Ceremonies,
about 1931, at the grave of Kiffin Rockwell in the town cemetery of Luxeuil-les-Bains. These ceremonies are still held annually by the town of Luxeuil and the
French Air Force Base nearby; Kiffin Rockwell fell in battle in Alsace in September 1916.

 

13

Co

Washington and Lee has been selected
as one of five regional offices of the
Virginia Research Center for
Archaeology.

Under the arrangement, Washington
and Lee students and faculty will be
involved extensively in fieldwork at
important archaeological sites in
Alleghany, Botetourt and Rockbridge
Counties, with emphasis on the
Rockbridge area.

“This is a tremendously exciting
development for Washington and
Lee,” said Dr. John M. McDaniel,
assistant professor of anthropology. “We
will be part of the mainstream of
archaeological events throughout the
State.”

Located in Tucker Annex, one of the
former faculty residences at the north
edge of the Colonnade, the office will be
a research arm of W&L’s Department of
Sociology and Anthropology. There are
12 students currently enrolled in the
survey archaeology course, which will be
directly involved with the activities of
the regional preservation office.

Organizers of the program say the
primary importance of the new office
lies in the vast opportunity to “find and
preserve keys to the area’s past.”

If investigations at a site should turn
up anything of historical significance,

14

Archaeological researchers Douglas McLearan and Dr. John McDaniel

GAZETTE

W&L Becomes a Center for Archaeological Research in Virginia

 

the office may nominate the site to the
National Register of Historic Places.

“This program will be a tremendous
asset for our students,” Dr. McDaniel
said. “It is unusual and flattering that
this program is established at the
undergraduate level.”

In addition to conducting surveys on
federally funded construction sites, the
office will also conduct short-term
environmental impact studies as
requested by the state.

The arrangement will provide
students an opportunity to acquire
practical experience in survey
archaeology, according to Dr. William
Kelso, commissioner of the Virginia
Research Center for Archaeology.

Kelso pointed to the “fine reputation”
W&L’s archaeology department has
achieved within the archaeological
community as reason for the University’s
selection to be the location for a regional
office. He also praised Dr. McDaniel for
his work with the archaeological
program at W&L.

Dr. McDaniel, director of the Liberty
Hall excavation since it began in 1974,
will be the regional office advisor. He
will be assisted by Dr. I. Taylor Sanders
II, University historian, and Dr. Michael
A. Pleva, associate professor of
chemistry.

 

Douglas McLearan, a graduate of
Virginia Polytechnical Institute with a
master’s degree in anthropology from
the University of Virginia, has been
appointed survey archaeologist for the
W&L office. In addition to his
responsibilities for pre-construction
surveys in the three-county area,
McLearan will also participate in W&L
archaeology courses and seminars.

The newly begun regional program is
an outgrowth of a 1966 federal law, the
Historic Preservation Act, which makes
each state responsible for nominations to
the National Register of Historic Places.

Archaeological studies are also
required to determine that nothing of
cultural significance will be destroyed by
construction at sites where government
funds will be used, even if located on
private land.

 

New alumni magazine
staff writer appointed

Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, a 1977 W&L
graduate and a staff reporter for the
Buena Vista (Va.) News since last year,
became assistant director of publications
in September.

He will occupy the position for one
year under a program which annually
brings a recent W&L graduate into the
University’s publications and news-
information operations. Hazel takes the
place of Douglass W. Dewing, who is
now in law school at Washington
University, St. Louis, Mo. Dewing had
held the job since the one-year-assistant
program was inaugurated last summer.

Hazel earned his B.A. degree in
philosophy, with extensive course work
in English and creative writing. He
received the Fielder Cook Award for
creative filmmaking in 1977 and had
fiction published in the W&L student
literary magazine, Ariel.

As assistant publications director at
W&L, Hazel has substantial duties with
the alumni magazine, edits the Weekly
Calendar, and works closely with the
W&L news office, handling most routine
news-release writing.

 

Shenandoah fiction
takes national honors

Two stories originally published in
Shenandoah, Washington and Lee’s

 

 

quarterly literary review, have been
selected as 1978 O. Henry Award
winners.

The two are “My Father’s Jokes” by
Patricia Zelver, which appeared in the

winter 1978 issue, and “Xmas” by

Thomas Disch, which appeared in the
summer 1977 issue.

Each year 18 stories are selected to
appear in the O. Henry Prize Stories
collection, published by Doubleday in
April.

 

New theatre season—
and a new approach

The University Theatre—formerly
the Troubadours—will open the fall
season late in October with a production
of Otherwise Engaged by Simon Gray.
Two other major productions, Ibsen’s A
Doll’s House and Candida by George
Bernard Shaw, will follow during the
season.

Otherwise Engaged will be directed by
John Jacobsen, a senior drama major.
The play will be the premiere
production in a new experimental
theatre series at W&L, “Studio
Presentations.”

The studio presentations will replace
the one-year thesis project previously
required of each senior drama major.
The series provides students with an
Opportunity to experiment with.
directing and producing a play and also
encourages innovations such as multi-
media shows—in which film and live
actors work together in the same space—
and post-performance audience
critiques, according to Thomas Ziegler,
assistant professor of fine arts and
theatre.

 

Federal grant supports
high-blood-pressure study

A team of biomedical investigators,
including H. Eugene King, W&L
professor of psychology, has been
awarded a $190,000 federal grant to
support research into the consequences
of hypertension.

Dr. King, a member of the W&L
faculty since 1977 and a research
psychologist experienced in evaluating
human brain-behavior relationships, will
conduct the behavioral research under
the National Heart, Lung and Blood
Institute grant. Working with him will
be Dr. Robert E. Miller, another
experienced research psychologist and a
long-time colleague of Dr. King.

The two scientists will undertake
detailed investigations over the next

 

 

Dr. H. Eugene King

three years into the changes in behavior
which may result from marked and
persistent elevation of the blood
pressure in the brain.

“Hypertension is a leading health
problem of the day,” according to Dr.
King. “Everyone has an intuitive grasp
of the fact that when something 1s
exciting, one’s heart pumps faster. If
something is chronically exciting—call it
stress if you want—be it negative or
positive, there will be a chronic effect.
This is the focus of our study: If one has
hypertension, then what are its
consequences?”

The research team will direct its
attention to the effects of sustained high
blood pressure on the brain. This is the
least studied of the three organs most
likely to be affected by persistent blood-
pressure elevation, King said. (The
kidney and the heart are the other two.)

Much of the test-data analysis, which
will be collected at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, is
expected to be carried out using W&L’s
newly installed computer facilities. Dr.
King will make periodic visits on
weekends throughout the academic year
to supervise the information-gathering
process at the Pittsburgh Medical
School.

 

Phillips continues widespread
professional involvements
Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor

of economics, has been elected to a
second term as national president of
Omicron Delta Epsilon (ODE), the
honor society for economists.

He had been president of the
organization in 1976 and 1977, and
became acting president this past
summer when his successor, Dr. I. James
Pikl, died. Phillips was elected to fill out
Dr. Pikl’s complete term at a meeting of
the ODE board of directors this month.

Phillips will be the leadoff speaker at
a two-day conference on utility
regulation in October in Washington,
D.C.

His topic will be “Public Utilities and
Regulation.” The symposium is
sponsored by Public Utilities Reports
Inc., publishers of the journal Public
Utilities Fortnightly and the industry’s
regular series of reports on regulatory
decisions.

In September, Phillips was also a
speaker at the regular public utilities
seminar sponsored in New York City by
Irving Trust Co. His discussion topic
was “The Cost-of-Money Approach.”
The Irving Trust seminars are designed
for utility executives and members of
state regulatory agencies. His
participation marked the 10th time
Phillips has been a speaker in the series.

 

Back to school, 1978

W&L opened its 230th academic year
this fall with its largest enrollment
ever— 1,742.

In the School of Law, 345 men and
women began the year in August. The
student population is higher than it has
ever been before, reflecting the gradual
expansion in the size of each entering
class since the law school moved into
Lewis Hall in 1976. That planned
expansion has now been completed, and
the size of the law student body is
expected to stay in the 340-350 range.

At the undergraduate level, the
University found itself with one of its
biggest freshman classes of all times—
381 men. The exceptionally large
freshman class is the result of a much-
higher-than-expected “confirmation
rate” among applicants to whom the
University offered admission last spring.
In the recent past, between 45 and 50
percent of the applicants whom W&L
accepted have actually ended up
attending W&L. This year the
confirmation rate was 57 percent.

Because of the unusually large size of
the class, W&L leased part of the old
Robert E. Lee Hotel for use as a
freshman dorm (as the University did

15

three years ago, when another
exceptionally large class enrolled).
Generally, the size of the freshman class
varies between 350 and 365, the range
the University considers ideal.

The absolute number of applications
W&L received for undergraduate
admission was down substantially this
year—from 1|,320—a year ago to 975.
Admissions officials attribute the drop
largely to the new writing essay which
the University required of all applicants
for the first time this year, designed to
allow case-by-case evaluation of each
applicant’s ability to think and write.

But the quality was not down. The
dropoff came primarily among
prospective applicants whose motivation
to attend W&L seems to have been
marginal from the outset and among
poorer students whose chances of being
offered admission were not good.

Statistical data for the new freshman
class show that its members are at least
as well qualified academically, as
measured by objective data, as last year’s
normal-size freshman class. Combined
College Board scores were virtually the
same, |,129 this year versus 1,130 a year
ago.
The “average” W&L freshman this
year ranked in the top quarter of his
high-school class, with a mean standing
of 73.7 on a base of 100, and 42 percent
of this year’s freshmen graduated in the
top one-fifth of their high-school classes.

 

 

Goshen Road, Rockbridge County, by Sally Mann

 

Mann photos
draw critics’ praise

An exhibition of photographs by 11
Southern artists, including Washington
and Lee’s Sally Mann, has drawn critical
praise from reviewers of both the
Washington (D.C.) Post and Star. The
exhibition, “I Shall Leave One Land
Unvisited,” took place in Washington’s
Corcoran Museum.

 

Paul Richard, chief critic for the Post,
wrote that Ms. Mann’s landscape
photographs are “subtle and elegant. . .
[Her work] enthralls the eye.”

Benjamin Forgey, reviewer for the
Star, said her “expectant otherworldli-
ness... is of a gentler sort” than some
of the works by other photographers in
the show. “There is something waiting
around that elegant bend of highway,”
he commented of her photograph of the

 

FIVE QUARTS
OF CAR

IN A
FOUR-QUART
LOT...

Or,

The Arithmetic

Of Parking as Taught
By the Students

The key to running a successful college:

Have plenty of football for the alumni, sex
for the students, and parking for the faculty.
—CLARK Kerr, when he was president of UCLA

If you lack confidence in the
ingenuity and imagination and
inventiveness of college kids today, take
heart. So what if they can’t tell a
participle from a patella, and maybe
they do think the multiplication tables
are located in the biology lab. Lock
horns and match wits with them in the
classroom if you must, but keep out of
their parking lots. If you think it’s
nerve-wracking at Bloomingdale’s on a
summer Saturday afternoon, keep your
distance from your otherwise-friendly
college campus whenever classes are in
session.

Learn from the example at
Washington and Lee—situated in the
tranquil, easygoing Valley of Virginia, in
Lexington, where even Robert E. Lee
could arrive in town and hardly cause a
stir, a scant hundred years or so ago, as
he did. Sleepy, some would say—who

have never been here when the students
are barrelling to class.

It used to be, as recently as the late
1960s, that W&L students simply
crammed their cars behind the gym ina
jumble that would send any self-
respecting traffic engineer to the
pacemaker dispensary. You’d leave your
keys in the ignition, so the people whom
you'd blocked might move your car if
they were out of class sooner than you.
Even if you were accustomed to driving
a big American car, you quickly learned
to maneuver a VW or an Opel, or else
you went to the Co-op for coffee for a
few hours.

(The faculty, of course, insists that
only the faculty is reduced to driving
VWs and Opels, that the students all
own block-long Oldsmobiles and
Bentleys, or if a small car, then at least a
Porsche or a Jaguar. Jealousy is a
relentless mistress.)

‘That pattern endured until six or
eight years ago, when two things
happened. One was that Washington

 

16

 

Goshen Road in Rockbridge County,
“but it is nothing more, nor less, than
the promise of perfect self-discovery.”

Following its Corcoran premiere, the
exhibition begins a three-year tour of
museums and galleries throughout the
United States.

The | 1-person exhibition marks the
second time in a year Ms. Mann’s photos
have been shown at the Corcoran. Last
autumn, her one-woman exhibition.
“Lewis Hall Portfolio”—pictures taken
during construction of W&L’s new law
building—also brought critical raves.

 

Math teacher participates
in Symposium on the ’80s

Robert L. Wilson, associate professor
of mathematics, participated in a
conference on the prospects for
mathematics education in the 1980s,
over the summer.

The conference, “Prime-80,” was
sponsored by the Mathematics
Association of America.

More than 50 mathematicians from
around the country attended the
conference, which recommended that
mathematics educators “undertake
immediately the project of defining, or
redefining, the basic skills that
mathematics education should impart to
every citizen.” 4

Wilson was one of only a small
number of teachers from undefgraduate

 

Whipple Lives!

Perhaps the least cheering statement
ever made on the subject of art is that
life imitates it.

—FRAN LEBOWITZ,

in Metropolitan Life

We recently received a class note. . .
allegedly from the legendary Charlie
Whipple, ex ’70 . . . purporting to an-
nounce that he had “had a bit part in
the “Toga Party’ scene in the movie Anz-
mal House”... .

We can’t tell whether the note is a
fake or not. If it is, it would be a pity. It
really should be true.

 

 

 

institutions who were invited to
participate in the conference.

 

°78 art season opens

The 1978 duPont Gallery art season
opened in September with the first of a
series of exhibitions organized in
cooperation with Dr. and Mrs. Jacob
Weinstein of Washington, D.C., parents
of an alumnus and owners of Jacob’s
Ladder Gallery in Washington.

The September show was of the
paintings of Dan Kuhne, a Maryland
artist who emerged on the national art
scene in 1972 through an exhibition at
Jacob’s Ladder. During the first week of
his W&L show, Kuhne visited the
University for a reception and a series of

workshop sessions with W&L art
students.

Dr. and Mrs. Weinstein have been
important friends and benefactors of the
University and its contemporary art
collections for several years, and
recently they established a fund to
enable W&L students to study with
practicing artists.

 

New teachers

Five new teachers in the School of
Law and six teachers and a research
associate in the undergraduate divisions

joined W&L’s faculty in September.

In the School of Law, Jan G. Deutsch
1S a visiting professor for 1978-79. He is
a B.A., LL.B. and Ph.D. graduate of
Yale University and has an M.A. degree
from Clare College, Cambridge. He has
taught at Yale, Stanford, Georgetown,
Florida and Michigan.

Peter G. Glenn, a member of the law
faculty at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill, is visiting
associate professor of law at W&L this
year. He received his law degree from
the University of Pennsylvania following
his undergraduate education at
Middlebury.

New assistant professors of law are
Samuel W. Calhoun and Edward O.
Henneman, and Denis J. Brion is
visiting assistant law professor.

Calhoun is a graduate of Harvard and

 

and Lee expanded the gym, and
Caterpillars and cranes, bigger than
even a Buick, pushed the student cars
out. The other was placid little
Lexington’s Great Bank Heist. It seems
that a larcenous local reprobate resolved
one day to acquire a substantial sum of
cash, but alas possessed neither a savings
account nor his own set of getaway
wheels. He knew, however, that an
abundance of cars was to be found
behind the Washington and Lee gym, all
with their keys conveniently left in the
ignition. So he helped himself to one,
and relieved the Rockbridge Bank of
funds sufficient to relieve his
embarrassing cash-flow itch. (The
authorities noted and traced the license
plate on the car, but the student who
owned it was absolved when it was
certified that he had, at the moment the
robbery took place, been afflicted with
an examination in the class of a certain
economics professor who also happened
to be the Dean of Students.)

Those two almost-simultaneous events

 

No Man’s Land
brought to an abrupt end the student

body’s brilliant, chaotically organized
parking pattern behind the gym. But in

 

the end it proved impossible to keep a
good impulse down, theft and major
construction notwithstanding.

In due course, with yet other
construction planned on the campus,
Washington and Lee determined to
provide new parking areas for its
students, and hired the best parking-lot
designers money could buy. And lo, a
new lot, probably the most attractive in
Virginia or maybe the world, was
opened near Lee Chapel with
appropriate fanfare. It was designed to
accommodate precisely 68 cars, the
number that had been displaced from
the old 100-by-200 lot where the gym

addition now stands.

The new lot was engineered within an
inch of its life. It has nooks and crannies
everywhere, bowered with exotic shrubs
and trees imported from all over the
world—everything to distinguish it in
the most emphatic way possible from
your garden-variety shopping-center
parking lot. And it would hold exactly
68 cars.

 

17

 

For the Colts’ W&L,
we yell, yell, yell!

For W&L’s football Generals, this
seems to be what the sportswriters call
a “rebuilding year.” But even so, there
is at least one estimable parallel an
optimist can draw.

The Baltimore Colts, who could
use a little rebuilding themselves,
“have a press-agent’s history-making
dream,” writes John F. Steadman,
sports editor of the Baltimore News-
American—*“Washington & Lee in the
same backfield,” Joe Washington and
Ron Lee. “It lends itself to all kinds of
possibilities,” Steadman says.

 

“Washington and Lee University
might even take a rooting interest in
the Colts, and the way things have been
going they can use all the help they can

et.
8 “And then, too, the Colts’ band
could strike up the ‘Washington and
Lee Swing’....

“Washington and Lee [the
University], coincidentally, has the
same colors as the Baltimore football
team, blue and white....

“(Colts}] Coach Ted Marchibroda
hasn’t said anything about trying to
schedule W&L because the Colts, in
their present state of physical duress,
might find they are overmatched... .”

 

 

earned his law degree from Georgia. He
has taught at the Universities of
Wyoming and Puget Sound

(Washington state). Henneman, a B.A.
graduate of Yale with a law degree from
Harvard, has been connected with W&L
since 1972, when he became associate
director of development in charge of
deferred giving programs and an
adjunct professor of law. Brion, a B.S.
graduate of Northwestern University
with a law degree from Virginia, taught
previously at William & Mary.

In The College, W&L’s
undergraduate arts-and-sciences
division, new assistant professors are
Jean Dunbar in English, Jay B. Labov in
biology, David P. Robbins in

mathematics and Lee D. Gordon in
philosophy.

Dunbar is a B.A. graduate of Kenyon.
She received her M.A. degree from
Virginia and is a Ph.D. candidate there.
Labov is a B.A. graduate of the
University of Miami and holds an M.A.
from the University of Rhode Island,
where he expects to receive his Ph.D.
Robbins received his B.A. degree from
Harvard and his Ph.D. from
Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
He came to W&L from Hamilton
College, where he was also an assistant
professor. Gordon, formerly an assistant
philosophy professor at the University
of Illinois, has his Ph.D. degree from the
University of Texas and received his

undergraduate education at Carleton
College.

In The School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics, new assistant
professors are Reginald R. Yancey in
accounting and W. David Jones in
administration.

Yancey is a B.S. graduate of Virginia
State College and received his law
degree last spring from W&L. He has
been a staff accountant with two firms,
and taught accounting on an adjunct
basis at W&L last year. Jones is a B.S.
graduate of the University of Tennessee
and earned his M.B.A. from Augusta
College. He is a candidate for the
doctorate in business administration at
Indiana University.

Also joining the W&L faculty this
autumn under a one-year appointment
was Arlon K. Kemple, a Ph.D. candidate
in political science at the University of
North Carolina (Chapel Hill). He will
work with teachers and students in
economics, sociology and politics,
primarily expanding their familiarity
with the University’s new computer
facilities and helping them explore ways
the computer can be used to enhance
teaching and research opportunities at
the undergraduate level. His
appointment is sponsored by a grant to
W&L from the National Science
Foundation under its Comprehensive
Assistance to Undergraduate Science
Education (CAUSE) program.

 

The students scoffed at Washington
and Lee and its high-powered
consultants. Sixty-eight cars! Before
anyone knew what happened, they
developed their own pattern for parking
an average of 98 cars there, almost half
again as many as the experts thought
they could. And generally they do it
without blocking anyone else. (The
architects who designed the lot, GWSM
Inc., imported all the way from
Pittsburgh, are still astonished.) When a
student occasionally does block in
another, the victim is absolutely
sanguine about it, according to Frank A.
Parsons, who, as assistant to President
Huntley, is in charge of such things. It
doesn’t happen often, he says, but when
it does, the reaction isn’t one of hysteria
but rather “Okay, maybe [ll block you in
tomorrow.”

Not long ago, Washington and Lee
began still more construction, this time
building a new library. And that meant a
whole lot of faculty parking had to be
eliminated.

Students are used to coping with
adversity, but Doctors of Philosophy are
another species. They shine in
committee meetings, but put them in a
real-life parking-lot crisis and you’ve got
trouble with a capital T.

 

So the University thought—briefly—
of changing the new Lee Chapel lot
from “B” to “A,” from upperclassmen to
faculty and staff. But even the high-
powered imported parking-lot experts
from Pittsburgh had to admit defeat and

quash that silly notion. Displace nearly a
hundred students in favor of 68
professors, and the consequences would
be unimaginable and uncontrollable. If
a Ph.D. found his car blocked by a
colleague’s, he’d be at the dean’s
doorstep in a trice (considering that he
couldn't get there in his Maverick). And
where to put the students whose Le
Barons had been displaced by a fraction
as many faculty Hondas?

So the faculty lost. Students now own
and control the new parking lot into
which the University frankly admits it
wouldn't dare send its agents. Professors
park on side streets halfway into the
county or, if they are smart, they walk to
school and boast about the exercise
they’re getting. Frank Parsons, the
assistant to the president, is one of the
brave few who still parks in the new
lot—but even he had to abandon his
Impala to his wife and daughter, and
buy a Rabbit for himself, to get away
with it.

R.S.K.

 

18

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

HOUSTON. A Stag reception was held
on May 30 at the home of F. Fox Benton
Jr., 60, to give Houston alumni an
opportunity to become better acquainted
with Benton, one of the newest members
of the Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees. The following officers were
elected: W. B. (Buck) Ogilvie Jr., ’64,
president; Allen B. Craig III, ’68, vice
president; Donald B. McFall, ’64, ’69L,
secretary; Richard E. Gray III, ’73,
treasurer; John S. Anderson, ’68, social
chairman. Expectations were expressed
that this group of officers will keep the
Houston chapter among the most active
of all W&L alumni groups.

BIRMINGHAM. The chapter joined
the Birmingham Museum of Art in
being host for the opening reception of
the exhibition of the Reeves Collection
of Chinese Export Porcelain on June 4.
James W. Whitehead, University
treasurer and curator of the collection,
and Mrs. Whitehead participated in the
program. ”

BALTIMORE. To welcome W&L
students home for their summer
vacation, the chapter held its annual
early summer cocktail party on June 10
at the home of Mr. and Mrs. John E.
McDonald. The chapter extended
special appreciation to the McDonalds
for their gracious hospitality and the use
of their lovely home.

SAN ANTONIO. The opening of an
exhibition of the Louise Herreshoff
paintings at the Witt Memorial Museum
on June | 1 brought together one of the
largest gatherings of chapter members
and their friends in recent years. James
W. Whitehead, University treasurer and
curator of the Herreshoff collection, and
Mrs. Whitehead were present, and
Whitehead gave a lecture on the
paintings. Ralph Lehr Jr., ’73, chapter
president, with the assistance of the
museum staff, made the arrangements
for this outstanding event.

PENSACOLA. Roy L. Steinheimer,
dean of the School of Law, and Mrs.

 

Sue Martin, and Jonathan Rogers, ’74L.

ROANOKE—AIll smiles are Richard Thomas, ’69; Susie Mink, Rita Matthews, Joe Matthews, 68; Terry

 

WAS HINGTON—Undergraduate and law freshmen at home of Randolph Rouse, ’39.

Steinheimer were special guests at a
dinner meeting of the chapter on June
14 at the Pensacola Country Club.
Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, and David T.
Johnson Jr., 68, made the
arrangements. Other guests
representing the University were John
Hollister, 58, development staff
associate, and Farris Hotchkiss, 758,
director of development.

 

ROANOKE. The chapter’s annual
summer party in honor of incoming
W&L freshmen and their parents was
held Aug. 4 at the Roanoke Country
Club. Those at the informal gathering
dined amply on beer, hamburgers, hot
dogs, and at a bountiful buffet table of
salads and other eatables. William L.
Andrews, ’72, chapter president,
reported that seven freshmen from the

19

CHAPTER NEWS

 

Wright, ’42.

WASHINGTON—Host Randolph Rouse, ’39; Mrs. Richard Wright, Allen DeLong, ’41, and Richard

WASHINGTON—Development Staff Associate John Duckworth, ’71, (left) talks with Madison P. Coe, ’15

Dati,

and Assistant Alumni Secretary L. C. (Buddy) Atkins, ’68.

area were entering the University, and
he welcomed them to the W&L family.
William C. Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary, introduced the freshmen and
their parents. Also representing the
University were James D. Farrar,
director of the alumni program for
student recruitment; Bill Schnier, sports
information director; John Duckworth,

20

‘71, development staff associate, and
Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary.

TALLAHASSEE. An informal alumni
party, including cocktails and dinner,
was held June 15 at the farm of DuBose
Ausley, ’59. Special guests were Dean
Roy L. Steinheimer of the law school

 

3

and Mrs. Steinheimer. An enthusiastic
group of alumni were present to hear
Dean Steinheimer’s up-to-the-minute
report on the law school. Also attending
were John Hollister, 58, development
staff associate, and Farris Hotchkiss, ’58,
director of development.

GULF STREAM. The University Club
in Miami was the setting of an alumni
dinner meeting on June 16 in honor of
Dean Roy L. Steinheimer of the School
of Law and Mrs. Steinheimer. A cocktail
reception preceded the excellent dinner.
Larry Craig, 66, A. J. Barranco, 64, and
Mercer Clarke, 66, were in charge of
the arrangements. Those present
eagerly received Dean Steinheimer’s
report on activities of the University.
John Hollister, 58, development staff
associate, also represented the
University. The next day Dean
Steinheimer attended a W&L breakfast
in connection with the convention of the
Florida Bar Association.

WASHINGTON. The chapter’s
annual reception in honor of incoming
W&L freshmen and their parents was
held Aug. 9 at the lovely home of
Randolph (Ranny) Rouse, ’39, in
Arlington, Va. A large group of alumni
was present to welcome the freshmen.
The party, including cocktails and hors
d’oeuvres, was staged beside the pool of
the Rouse home and was catered by a
group of young women. Jay Meriwether,
70, president of the chapter, expressed |
appreciation to Ranny Rouse and to his
mother, Mrs. Parke Rouse, who was also
present. The chapter welcomed 40 new
W&L students from the area and
applauded those attending the
reception. Waller T. (Beau) Dudley, a
senior law student and president of the
student body, extended a special
welcome to the students on behalf of the
University. University representatives
included E. Waller Dudley, ’43, 47L, a
University trustee; John Duckworth, ’71,
development staff associate; Buddy
Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni secretary;
and Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary.

CLASS NOTES

 

 

}

fl = ae es gi |
Qt eZ

 

 

 

 

 

| THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$65.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$80.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your
name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

 

por ae

Harry E. MEEK, a distinguished Arkansas law-
yer, was recently featured in the Arkansas
Gazette as a lover of all animals and an author of
laws. The 87-year-old attorney has had a varied
career and continues active today. He left W&L
in 1912 after one year and became a court re-
corder before entering the Arkansas Law School
in 1913. Not satisfied, he again came to W&L
and obtained his second law degree in 1915. He
practiced in Stuttgart for a while before entering
the service from which he was discharged in
1918. After associating with several firms, Meek
retired in 1969. He is the attorney for the Ar-
kansas Bank Department, is an avid swimmer,
and has several hobbies, including astronomy.

1916
Maj. M. S. CANNON retired in 1963 in Shelby-
ville, Tenn., after along and illustrious teaching
career, principally in military schools. After
graduation from W&L, he went to Kemper
Military Academy in Booneville, Mo. After
World War I, Cannon taught at Sewanee Mili-
tary Academy for three years before taking the
headmastership of the Alabama Military Acad-
emy in Anniston, where he stayed seven years.
Cannon was especially successful in recruiting
students and in 1930 joined the faculty at
Columbia Military Academy, where he stayed
until his retirement. In the spring of 1976 Maj.
Cannon was honored at a special homecoming
at Columbia Military Academy attended by Gov.
Blanton of Tennessee and U.S. Rep. Beard. A
personally endorsed picture of President Gerald
Ford was presented to him.

1923

JupDGE I. H. STREEPER of Alton, Ill., has served
more than 22 years as circuit judge in the Third
Judicial Circuit of Ilinois. He also served eight
years as Chief Assistant State’s Attorney of
Madison County before his election to the Illi-
nois General Assembly for an 8-year term.
Streeper is a director of Alton Banking and
‘Trust Co. and has been in that position for over
25 years. He also is in charge of the operations
of the Streeper Funeral Home.

1929

Harry E. GopwIn continues to be active in the
music business in the Memphis area. He is a
consultant for jazz history for the Mississippi
River Museum and also president of Jazzette
Records. Godwin is a director of the Memphis
Development Foundation, Inc.

Dr. IRWIN T. SANDERS, a professor emeritus of
sociology at Boston University, recently pub-
lished an article in the Bulletin of the Interna-
tional Association for the Study of Southeastern
Europe, entitled “Constantinople: A Pathfinder
Survey.” Formerly associate director of the Ford
Foundation, Sanders also served from 1929 to

a

 

1932 as the dean of the American College in
Sofia, Bulgaria. He is a former president of the
Rural Sociological Association and holds
membership in the American Sociological
Association, the American Anthropological
Association and many other groups. Sanders
was decorated by the Greek government under
the Royal Order of Phoenix in 1955 for
academic achievement.

1930

L. PALMER Brown, president of L. P. Brown
Company, Inc., of Memphis, paused just long
enough during a break in the board of directors
meeting of the National Multiple Sclerosis So-
ciety in New York on June 8 to meet with NMSS
President John F. McGillicuddy and the
Mystery Sleuth puppet. The venerable
bloodhound is the symbol of millions of
children throughout the country who
participate in the MS READ-a-thons as genuine
Mystery Sleuths, reading for fun, and for funds
to help solve the mystery of multiple sclerosis.

1931

BoORROUGHS REID HILL has a book Hanta Yo
dedicated to him. The author is his wife, Ruth,
who tells of 25 years of research in the archaic
Sioux language. The novel is about the Plains
Indians before the white man’s influences. The
Hills have spent many summers as guests of
Indian families throughout the western United
States and Canada. The book is to be published
in January 1979.

1932
MARRIAGE; JupceE Jack G. Marks and Selma
Paul of Tucson, Ariz., on August 15, 1977.
Judge Marks is a justice on the Arizona
Supreme Court. Mrs. Marks is a deputy county
attorney.

1933

Dr. Epwarp E. FerGuson has retired from
active practice of genitourinary surgery to a life
of country auctions, golf, boating, gardening,
and work with senior citizens organizations. He
lives in Southwest Harbor, Maine.

1934

James A. Brack, president and general
manager of the Times and Alleganian Co. of
Cumberland, Md., since January 1967
announced his retirement in June. Black will
continue to serve on the company’s board of
directors and executive committee. He joined
the company in 1935 and has continuously
served in an executive position since then.

1936

Lewis A. McMurran Jr., a member of the:

a?

L. Palmer Brown, ’30, with National M ultiple
Sclerosis President McGillicuddy and Mystery
Sleuth puppet.

Virginia House of Delegates since 1947, was
awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws Degree
by the Christopher Newport College at
commencement exercises on May 14, 1978.
McMurran was chairman of the Peninsula
Committee for Higher Education, which
originated the plans for Christopher Newport
College, and in 1960 he introduced legislation
to authorize the founding of the college as a
branch of the College of William and Mary. In
1966 he introduced legislation to advance
Christopher Newport from a junior to a senior
college, and in 1975 he sponsored legislation to
establish it as an independent institution of
higher education.

Dr. HERBERT E. SLoan, University of Michigan
professor, has been elected vice president of the
American Association of Thoracic Surgery. He
began his association with Michigan as a
resident, continuing there as an instructor and
becoming a full professor. He was appointed
head of the section of thoracic surgery in 1970.
Dr. Sloan is widely recognized for his
contributions to heart and lung surgery and is
listed among the top 20 specialists in the
country in the field of heart surgery. In
addition to this recent honor, Dr. Sloan was the
recipient of the Bruce A. Douglas Award of the
Michigan Lung Association. He was recently
elected a member of the university hospital

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70, Smith, Robinson &
Vinyard, 117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210
Atlanta—Charles Jones, 66, Gering & Jones, CPA’s, Lenox
Towers, Suite 1748, 3390 Peachtree Rd., N.E., Atlanta, Ga.
30326
Augusta-Rockingh Ross V. Hersey, ’40, 1060 Lyndhurst
Rd., Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—James J. Dawson, '68, ’71L, Cable, McDaniel, Bowie
& Bond, The Blaustein Bldg., Baltimore, Md. 21201
Birmingham—John W. Poynor, ’62, 10 Pine Crest Rd., Bir-
mingham, Ala. 35223

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, 69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl.
Bank of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897
Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, '74, P.O. Box 651, Jack-
son, Miss. 39205

Charleston—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, '68L, 710 Commerce
Square, Charleston, W. Va. 25301

Charlotte—Gary L. Murphy, '70, 1925 Shoreham Dr., Char-
lotte, N. C. 28211

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, °72L, 111 Maclellan
Bldg., 721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, '62, ’65L, Winston and Strawn,
One First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, III. 60670
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—R. Noel Spence, ’56, ’58L, 123 W. Wash-
ington St., Hagerstown, Md. 21740

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., 61, 3919 Cobblestone Dr., Dallas,
Texas 75229

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, '75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa— Ernest I. Cornbrooks III, 67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisbury, Md. 21801

Eastern North Carolina—E. B. Vaden Jr., 69, 3519 Turn-
bridge Dr., Raleigh, N.C. 27609

Florida West Coast—George Harvey Jr., 63, WFLA-TV, 905
Jackson St., Tampa, Fla. 33601

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream— A. J. Barranco, ’64, Suite 310, Concord Bldg., 66
West Flagler St., Miami, Fla. 33130

Houston—W. B. Oglivie Jr., 64, Office of Executive V.P., Baylor
College of Medicine, Texas Medical Center, Houston, Texas
77030

Jacksonville—William H. Jeter Jr., 71, Adams & Adams, 314
Duval Federal Bldg., 135 W. Bay St., Jacksonville, Fla. 32202
Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, ‘71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock— William F. Rector Jr., °70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205

Long Island—Jeff Wexler, '69, The Oceanside Beacon, Box
126, Oceanside, N.Y. 11572

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., ’70, 222 S. Birchwood
Ave., Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—Cecil W. Taylor, '39, ’41L, 3844 Peakland Place,
Lynchburg, Va. 24503

Mid-South— Jody Brown, ’65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Briad Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbrun Viaduct, Nashville, Tenn. 37215

Mobile— McGowin I. Patrick, '60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala.
36601

Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, ’72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass., 02149

New Orleans— Richard K. Christovich, 68, 1208 Pine St., New
Orleans, La. 70118

New York—John M. Ellis, 56, HAUS International, 1212 Ave-
nue of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, '61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—John Madison Jr., 64, Wilner, Weiss,
Madison & Howell, 411 Commercial National Bank Bldg.,
Shreveport, La. 71101

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, ’66, 219 Couch Dr., Okla-
homa City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 2910
Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm Beach, Fla. 33401
Palmetto—John W. Folsom, ’73, South Carolina Federal Savings
& Loan Assn., P.O. Box 69, Columbia, S.C. 29202
Peninsula—Benjamin A. Williams, ‘71, 134 Hampton Roads
Ave., Hampton, Va. 23661

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, 3985 Piedmont Rd., Pensa-
cola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Edward W. Coslett III, ’70, 64 Paxon Hollow
Rd., Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, ’73, Wachovia Bank & Trust
Co., Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104
Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnston, '56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond— Robert M. Turnbull, ’72, 301-A N. Hamilton St.,
Richmond, Va. 23221

Roanoke— William L. Andrews III, 72, 430 Canterbury Lane,
Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington,
Va. 24450

San Antonio— Ralph E. Lehr Jr., 73, 10 Elmcourt, San Antonio,
Texas 78209

St. Louis— Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., ‘66, 330 Oakley Lane,
St. Louis, Mo. 63122

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin T. Fleishman, ’41, P.O.
Drawer 4106, Anderson, S.C. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, °53, Box 1762,
Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio— Thomas P. Winborne, 51, ’53L, 3510 Arnold
Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr.,’54,’60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531

Tidewater—Richard C. Burroughs, ‘68, 409 Yarmouth St.,

Norfolk, Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, ’69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25719

Tulsa—Dan W. Higgins Jr., 69, 1200 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa,
Okla. 74103

Upper Potomac— Albert D. Darby, 43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, ’70, Arthur Andersen &
Co., 1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, 53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail,
Abilene, Texas 79605

 

 

 

 

G. U. Stephens, ’50

executive board and is an active participant and
contributor to community activities in the Ann
Arbor area.

1937

WiLtiAM H. ARMENTROUT ended his long
educational career on June 30, when he retired
from the Rockbridge County school system
where he last served as Title I coordinator and
visiting teacher. He was recently honored by the
statewide Title I conference in Virginia Beach.
Armentrout’s teaching career began in 1940 as
principal of Arnolds Valley School. His career
has been varied and includes five years in
Germany, where he taught with the Overseas
Dependent Schools. He returned to his native
Rockbridge County in 1963.

Lewis D. WILLIAMS is manager of advertising
and sales promotion and corporate secretary
for PCR, Inc. The firm makes chemicals for
research, commercial use, cancer chemo-
therapy and does some research itself. His office
is in Gainesville, Fla.

1938

GEORGE STEVENSON KEMP JR., a semi-retired
stockbroker who has been involved in many
civic activities, has been elected to the City
Council for Richmond, Va. Kemp favors a
strong movement toward revitalizing the
downtown area and will also bring to the council
a philosophy of financial conservatism.

f ind

J. GEORGE OSTERTAG is retiring as district
manager of the St. Louis Industry Products
Division of Armstrong Cork Co. after 41 years.
Ostertag plans to continue his hobbies of
philately and travel.

1939

HuGH P. Avery was elected chairman of the
Coordinating Board Texas College and
University System Advisory Committee at its
initial meeting. The committee, created by the
state legislature, is composed of representatives
from each of the state’s 120 public institutions
of higher education. The initial task of the
group is to recommend minimal or basic
benefits for all employees in the state higher
education system.

HAROLD L. FENTON Jr. will commence his 40th
year in September 1978 with Anaconda Corp.
He is also employed by the local newspaper in
Waterbury, Conn., as its classic music critic.
Fenton does considerable travelling and
continues to be very active with the Kiwanis
Club, the United Way, and church work.

194]

RICHARD S. Coo.ey and his wife visited the
campus in July. He is head of the mathematics

U.S. Rep. G. William Whitehurst, 50, receives
Order of Merit Award at the home of the German

Ambassador in Washington, D. C.

department of Far Hills Country Day School of
Peapack, N. J.

1942

WALTER C. ABERG JR. has been in the in-
vestment business for over 20 years. He is vice
president of T. J. Bettes Co. of Houston, Texas.
Aberg is also a special representative in real
estate loan for Valley National Bank in
Phoenix, Ariz.; president of Copper State
Mortgage Co., and vice president of Wilkins
Mortgage Bankers, also in Phoenix. Aberg also
finds time to manage the Chevron Dealership
in Carefree, Ariz., be a director of the local
Chamber of Commerce, and hold the position
as president and director of the Bancho Villas
Association. He and his wife, Martha, live in
Cave Creek, Ariz. and have two grand-children.

1944

A. Linwoop Ho.ton, former Governor of
Virginia, is now vice president and general
counsel for the American Council of Life
Insurance in Washington, D. C. He is engaged
in government relations activities for the
organization, specifically involving __rela-
tionships of life insurance business with
state governments that regulate it in various
ways. Holton recently withdrew as a candidate
for the Republican senatorial nomination in
Virginia. Soon after Holton’s gubernatorial
term ended in 1974, he joined the State
Department staff under Henry Kissinger; then,
after resigning in 1975, he joined the law firm
of Hogan & Hartson; and in early 1978 left that
firm to campaign for the senatorial nomination.

1945

RICHARD E. BARTLEBAUGH recently merged the
Acoustics Manufacturing Corp., of which he
was president, with Steel Ceilings, Inc., and now
lives in Coshocton, Ohio. He lived formerly in
Detroit.

1946

T. RyLtaAnp Dopson, prominent attorney in
Danville, Va., has been appointed one of the
judges for the General District Court in the
22nd Judicial Circuit. Endorsed by the Danville
Bar Association, Dodson will preside in
Pittsylvania and Franklin Counties and in the
city of Danville.

SHEPPARD W. ZINOvoy is president of Diane
Von Furstenberg, Ltd., a women’s clothes
designer in New York City.

1947

'T. RYLAND Dobson (See 1946.)

1949

REAR Apo. D. EARL BRown Jr. completed a two

 

year tour in July as Commanding Officer of the
Naval Regional Medical Center, San Diego. He
is now assigned as Fleet Surgeon for the U. S.
Pacific Fleet and to the staff of the Commander
in Chief, U.S. Forces, Pacific. Brown resides in
Honolulu.

RoBERT E. LEE IV, vice president of advertising
and sales for A. Smith Bowman Distillery, was
guest speaker at a conference of the Raleigh (N.
C.) Sales and Marketing Executive Association

June 5-6, 1978.

1950

PHILIP M. LANIER, executive vice president for
administration of Seaboard Coast Line
Industries, has been elected executive vice
president of the Louisville and Nashville
Railroad. Seaboard Coast Line Industries is the
holding company for the Family Lines System,
which is made up of various railroads. Lanier
will be the company’s chief officer resident in
the state of Kentucky. He lives in Louisville.

Dr. GEORGE PiERSON has been practicing
radiology in Greensboro, N. C., since 1972.
Recently Pierson, with Bill Shuck, 752, Bill
Hines, ’52, and Jay Handlan, ’52, played a
foursome in a member/guest golf tournament
in Cherry Hill, N. J.

GERRY U. STEPHENS, executive vice president of
American National Bank and Trust Co.,
Chattanooga, Tenn., and head of the bank’s
Metropolitan Division, has been elected
president of the Southeastern Chapter of
Robert Morris Associates, the national
association of bank loan and credit officers. The
chapter is the largest of the Associates’ 32
chapters. Stephens joined American Bank in
1953. He is a graduate of the Stonier Graduate
School of Banking at Rutgers University and
has served on the faculty of the Robert Morris
Associates Loan Management Seminar at
Indiana University. Stephens was a_ past
president of Chattanooga Clearinghouse
Association and the Chattanooga Chapter of
the American Institute of Banking. He is active
in local civic organizations and is a trustee of the
Bright School and a director of the
Chattanooga Cotton Ball Association. He and
his wife, Estes, have three children.

U.S. Rep. G. WILLIAM WuiTeEHurRst of Virginia
was recently honored with the Order of Merit
Award during a special reception and
ceremony in the home of the German
Ambassador in Washington, D. C. Ambassador
Berndt von Staden cited Whitehurst for his
significant contributions toward strengthening
the friendship between Germany and the
United States in fields of vital common interest.
Rep. Whitehurst has been heavily involved in
areas of mutual concern to both the United
States and the Federal Republic of Germany
through his membership on the House Armed

eo

  

&

J. O. Marsh Jr., 51

D. L. Shuck, ’51

Services Committee, the special Subcommittee
on NATO Standardization & Readiness and the
North Atlantic Assembly.

1951

FREDERIC J. AHERN has recently been elected a
vice president of Baldwin-United Corp. His
election followed the merger of United Corp.,
with whom he had been associated for some 26
years, and D. H. Baldwin Co. The Baldwin
company is best known for its pianos and organs,
but its major operations are in the fields of
banking, insurance, and savings and _ loan.
Ahern is a resident of Darien, Conn.

JOHN O. MarsH Jr. has been elected to the
board of directors of A-T-O Inc. of Willoughby,
Ohio. The firm, formerly “Automatic”
Sprinkler Corp. of America, is a major
corporation which has developed since 1963
from a relatively small fire-protection company
to a large diversified industrial organization
with 30 major manufacturing divisions. Marsh
is a partner in the Washington, D. C. and
Richmond, Va., law firm of Mays, Valentine,
Davenport & Moore. He served with Cabinet
rank as counsellor to President Ford from 1974
to 1977, with direction of legislative affairs as a
major assignment. Marsh served as a
Democratic member of the U. S. House of
Representatives for four successive terms from
1963 until 1971, when he declined to seek re-
election. He was a member of the House
Committee on Appropriations and_ other
important subcommittees. Marsh has been
honored for outstanding service by the U. S.
Jaycees.

ROBERT W. PITTENGER, assistant vice president

and securities analyst for Wheat, First
Securities, Inc., has been elected a_ vice
president of the financial services firm.

Pittenger began his career in the investment
industry with First Securities Corp. of N. C.
With the merger of Wheat and Co. and First
Securities in 1971, Pittenger moved to the
research department of the new firm in
Richmond. He is a member of the Richmond
Society of Financial Analysts. He and his wife
have a daughter.

1952

KENT RIGG is past president of the First State
Bank of Wise, Va., and is_ president of
Kennedy’s Piggly Wiggly Stores, Inc., in
Norton, Va.

THOMAS R. SHEPHERD, who began his career
with Sylvania in Buffalo, has been named
president of GIE Consumer Electronics Co.,
the television marketing organization of
General Telephone and Electronics Corp.,
Stamford, Conn. He was previously vice
president and _ general sales manager

o4

   

 

R. D. Smith Jr., 55

responsible for Sylvania and Philco sales
operations.

DonaLp L. SHuck has been named _ vice
president of Moore, Leonard & Lynch, the
Pittsburgh-based stock brokerage and
investment banking firm. He joined the firm in
1964 as a registered representative. Shuck lives
in Sewickley with his wife and their five
children.

Louis SPILLMAN Jr. 1s the owner of four Quick
Printing plants in Fayetteville, N. C. He is also a
member of the board of trustees of Methodist
College and chairman of the Cumberland
County Board of Education.

PauL D. WEILL is an administrator, Field
Selection, Life Marketing Department for
Aetna Life & Casualty Co. He also is a manager
of a Little League team and isa referee for high
school and college wrestling.

1953

C. (RANDY) BRADLEY resigned in April as
president of Leaseway of Texas, Inc., to accept
a position as vice president of Lone Star
Peterbilt Truck Sales, Inc., in Dallas.

‘THOMAS B. PERKINS, CLU, has been appointed
manager in the life, health, and _ financial
services department at the Washington, D. C.,
office of the Travelers Insurance Cos. Perkins
joined the companies in 1959 as an agency
service representative at the New York City
office and in 1962 was named _ brokerage
manager. In 1969 he was assigned to the home
office in Hartford, Conn., as executive assistant
and in 1971 was named manager of marketing
programs. A year later, Perkins was promoted
to assistant secretary and in 1974 was appointed
secretary. He and his wife have four children.

1954

WILLIAM S. LUCKETT is vice president of
Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. and head of its
metropolitan banking group, with offices in
Rockefeller Plaza in Manhattan. He is also
commodore of the Larchmont Yacht Club.

1955

WILLIAM H. BARTSCH has completed his work in
Indonesia and has moved to a new post at ILO
Headquarters in Geneva as Inter-Regional
Advisor on Rural Public Works Programmes.
Twenty-four countries are members of the
project.

KENT RIGG (See 1952.)

RAYMOND D. SMITH Jr. has been elected senior
vice president of Bankers Trust Co. in New
York City. Smith is head of credit coordination
and loan policy of the bank’s International

Banking Department. He joined Bankers Trust
in 1958 and, after several executive
promotions, was named first vice president in
1973. Smith and his wife, Anne, have two
children; the family lives in Pound Ridge, N. Y.

1956

JOHN HOLDER is vice president, finance and
administration, for Polymer United, a
subsidiary of United Brands, with headquarters
in San Jose, Costa Rica. Its operations extend
throughout Central America.

R. Nort SPENCE of Hagerstown, Md., was
drafted by local Republicans to run for State’s
Attorney of Washington County, Md. Spence
will face the winner of a Democratic primary.
He has been a practicing attorney in
Hagerstown since 1961 after two years in the
FBI. He was a member of the House of
Delegates from 1963 to 1966.

1958

MICHAEL J. Barry has joined Kraft, Inc., as
manager of marketing research in_ the
Corporate Marketing Development
Department. Before joining Kraft, Barry work-
ed for J. Walter Thompson Co. as associate
research director on major consumer product
assignments. He also specialized in new product
development. Barry has also been a principal in
a management consulting firm and a systems
designer for U. S. Steel Corp. He is a past vice
president of the Research Division of the
American Marketing Association. He and his
wife, Barbara, have four children; the family
lives in Naperville, Ill.

SHELDON CLARK II has been named headmaster
of St. Michael’s School in Stuart, Fla.

CHARLES W. (BUNNY) GUNN, a member of the
Virginia House of Delegates, was appointed
interim clerk of the Rockbridge County Circuit
Court in Lexington, following the death of
Harry Wright. Judge Rudolph Bumgardner
III, ‘66, swore Gunn in June 12. Gunn
announced he will resign his position in the
Virginia legislature. An election to fill the post
will be held in November, with Gunn a

- candidate.

GarRY MCPHERSON Is assistant basketball coach
at West Virginia University under the new head
coach, Gale Catlett.

KINGSLEY Woop is an account executive with
the Chicago public relations counseling firm of
Gardner, Jones and Co. Previously Wood was
suburban columnist for the Chicago Sun-Times.
He lives with his wife and two children in
Hinsdale, III.

1959

JOHN P. FREEMAN, a chemist with Eastman

 

Kodak Co. in Rochester, N. Y., successfully
climbed ‘the summit of the famous Mount
McKinley, the highest peak in North America.
He was with a group of eight alumni and
professors of Ohio State University.

WiLtiAM’ K. HuGHes has been appointed
district manager of sales in St. Louis for U. S.
Steel Corp. He served the last two years as
assistant sales manager. Hughes joined U. S.
Steel in 1960 and served as a salesman in New
York from 1963 to 1966 and then in Milwaukee
from 1966 to 1974, when he was promoted to
assistant marketing manager of the Central
Steel Division.

JERE H. WILLIAMS became council executive of
the Black Warrior Council, Boy Scouts of
America on July |, 1978. Williams, his wife and
two sons live in Tuscaloosa, Ala.

1960

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs R. LoutiT, a son,
Christopher Cameron, on Jan. 20, 1978. The
Loutits now have three sons; they live in
Cohasset, Mass. :

a.
Davip S. ERNEST has joined the Chemical
Division of B. F. Goodrich Co. ,as_ public
relations administrator. He served, previously
in the public relations department of Goodyear

International Corp. and = Eaton Corp.
Additionally, Ernest operated his own
marketing communications firm after

employment with a Cleveland advertising
agency.

STEPHEN D. MILLER practices law in Beverly
Hills, Calif., with the firm of Miller, Glassman &
Browning Inc. The firm specializes in federal
litigation.

196]

GREYFRED B. Gray, associate professor at the
University of Tennessee College of Law, is on
leave of absence to pursue the S.J.D. degree at
the University of Michigan Law School. Gray is
living in Ann Arbor.

RAYMAN R. LOVELACE, an executive with the
Louisville, Ky., investment firm of Johnston,
Brown, Burnette & Knight, has been elected a
vice president of the Kentucky chapter of the
Leukemia Society of America, Inc. He was also
elected corporate delegate representing the
Kentucky chapter to the National Board of
Trustees of Leukemia Society of America.

Ron L. RANDEL is sales manager for Donrey
Outdoor Advertising Agency in Albuquerque,
N. M. He is also president of Santa Fe Builders
Supply Co., Love Realty of New Mexico, Inc.,
and Love Real Estate Co. of Texas. He and his
wife, Madge, have one son and two daughters.

   

1962

THOMAS L. FEAZELL has been named assistant
general counsel for Ashland Oil, Inc. Feazell
joined Ashland in 1965 as a staff attorney.

1963

MARRIAGE: Dr. E. Ross KyGer and Mary Kay

Pederson on June 2, 1978, in Fort Worth,
Texas. Among those attending was E. Richard
Albert III of Tulsa, Okla. Kyger recently
resigned as chief of cardiovascular surgery at
the University of Texas Medical School
(Houston) to become chief of cardiovascular
surgery and medical director of the Vascular
Laboratories at St. Joseph Hospital in Houston.

Dr. HuGH H. Trout III has moved to
Washington to join the faculty in the
department of surgery at George Washington
University Medical School. Trout specializes in
vascular and abdominal surgery.

1964

JOHN Mason ALLGoop has been promoted to
director of human resources for Lowcountry
Council of Governments. He is in charge of
planting programs for social services, aging,
and for highway safety and law enforcement.

ROBERT BREWER, former vice president and
corporate counsel of Systech, a Dillingham
company in Walnut Creek, Calif., has formed a
partnership, Brewer and Coombs, for the
practice of law with special emphasis on
corporate and individual tax planning, real
property transactions, wills, trusts and probate.
The firm will be headquartered in Danville,
Calif.

FREDERICK E. Cooper has been named
corporate vice president in addition to his
duties as general counsel and secretary of
Flowers Industries, Inc. He will be responsible
for staff direction, long range planning and
expansion. The appointment was announced
by W. H. Flowers Jr., ’33, chairman of the
board.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. L. GENE GRIFFITHS JR., a
daughter, Margaret Elizabeth, on Nov. 6, 1977.
Griffiths is president and general manager of
Gregory Manufacturing Co., Inc., of Jackson,
Miss. He was recently re-elected to a one-year
term as trustee of the National Small Business
Association.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Louis PATERNO, a
daughter, Caroline Campbell, on June 2, 1978.
Paterno is a practicing attorney in Charleston,
W. Va.

FREDERICK A. CasrTo has resigned from Grubb
and Ellis Co. of Oakland, Calif. and expects to

V. R. Galef, ’65

     

a

 

 

D. J. Lineback, ’66

open his own law practice in San Francisco in
the fall of 1978.

ROBERT C. DEVANEY is rig manager for the drill
ship Zapata Trader operating in the Santa
Barbara Channel off the coast of California for
Zapata Off-Shore Co. He lives in Seal Beach,
Calif.

Dr. ADAM J. FIEDLER is practicing obstetrics and
gynecology in Richmond. He has a son, 8, and

daughter, 6.

Victor R. GALEF has joined Miles Laboratories,
Inc., as group product manager for the
Consumer Products Division. Galef will be
responsible for marketing activities of the
division’s nutritional and hygiene products.
Prior to joining Miles, Galef was employed by
Wyler Foods Division of Borden, Inc. He and
his family live in Elkhart, Ind.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE K. HELLMAN,
a son, Eli Jacob, on March 8, 1978. Hellman is
associate dean and professor of law at
Oklahoma City University. His wife Gay is a law
student there.

CHARLES C. FISHBURNE III has joined WRET-
TV in Charlotte, N.C., as a news co-
anchorman. Previously Fishburne was with
WWBT in Richmond.

Dr. DONALD J. LINEBACK, formerly assistant
director of development for Hollins College,
has been appointed director of development
for Southwestern at Memphis. Lineback holds a
Ph.D. in German from the University of North
Carolina and taught German at W&L and
Hollins prior to entering development work.

JOHN RUTHERFORD is a news editor for United
Press International in Washington, D.C. He
lives in McLean, Va., with his wife and two
daughters.

Roy A. TYLER is currently the felony prosecutor
in the Prosecuting Attorney’s office for the
Superior and Circuit Trial Courts of the First
Judicial Circuit located in Evansville, Ind. He
has has wide experience having been an
instructor in Criminal Justice at the University
of Indiana until 1974 when he became special
deputy prosecutor for Vanderburgh County in
charge of Narcotics and Organized Crime
Prosecutions and Task Force. At the same time
he was also Police Legal Advisor in the Police
Department. For several years Tyler was an
Instructor at the Indiana Law Enforcement
Training Academy in Bloomington and _ has
done’ extensive speaking and _lecturing
throughout the state of Indiana. In 1975 he was
recipient of the United States Department of
Justice’s “Award of Merit” for assistance to the
Drug Enforcement Administration. Tyler is a

25

CLASS NOTES

member of several national and state law
enforcement associations and is on the board of
directors of the National Association of Police
Attorneys. He is also the author of several
publications, the last of which is “The Police
Officer as Plaintiff’ published in the March
1978 issue of A.E.L.E. Police Plaintiff, the
monthly publication of the Americans for
Effective Law Enforcement.

1967

EDWARD N. BEACHUM was appointed chairman
of the English department at the Darlington
School in Rome, Ga., in May 1978. Beachum
has been an English instructor at the school
since 1972.

KENNETH M. GREENE is practicing law in
Greensboro, N.C., with the firm of Falk,
Carruthers and Roth. Herbert S. Falk Jr., 53,
and Charles E. Roth, ’37, are W&L men in the
same firm.

After graduating from law school, MARTIN
ROSENDORF went to work in the general
counsel’s office of the National Capital Housing
Authority in the District of Columbia. In 1970,
he entered the automobile tire business,
Starting out in the wholesale operation which
included only himself and two other employees.
He is now president of Abbey Tire Co. in
Rockville, Md., which does commercial and
retail sales, employing seven people. Rosen-
dorf jokingly advises that when he needs
a lawyer he usually lets his brother-in-law,
Leonard C. Greenbaum W&L’56, ’58L, handle
his legal matters.

Joun H. Zink III is a practicing attorney in
Baltimore, Md. He and his wife, Evelyn, have
two daughters.

1968

ROBERT A. CASHILL is working as an employee
relations specialist in the Headquarters
Employee Relations Planning Department of
Exxon Co. in Houston. Previously he was an
industrial sales representative for Exxon in
upstate New York.

PARKER L. DENACO, executive director of the
Maine Labor Relations Board, was elected
president of the Association of Labor Relations
Agencies, a consortium of state, federal,
provincial and other labor relations agencies,
mediation and conciliation agencies, at its
annual meeting in Boston on July 27. Denaco
anticipates the association will have an active
year which will include, among other projects, a
study and evaluation of “Proposition 13-type”
proposals and careful attention to Civil Service
reform measures. Denaco is a member of the
National Labor Panel and the Boston Advisory
Council of the American Arbitration
Association, a charter member of the Society of
Professionals in Dispute Resolution, and a

26

member of the board of directors of the Public
Employment Service project of the Carnegie
Foundation. He is the author of several
publications and is a public member of the
Committee on State and Local Government
Bargaining of the Labor Law Section of the
American Bar Association.

ALEX S. JONES, former managing editor of the
Athens (Tenn.) Post-Athenian will succeed his
brother as editor of the Greenville (Tenn.) Sun.
He will also retain his position as publisher of
the weekly Sweetwater (Tenn.) Valley News.

Louis PATERNO (See 1965.)

GEORGE A. RAGLAND Is associated with the law
firm of Womble, Carlyle, Sandridge and Rice in
Winston-Salem, N.C. Previously he was with
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. there.

L. HOLMEs RAKER is vice president for general
administration of St. Francis Hospital in
Waterloo, Iowa. He is married and has a
daughter, Katy, 4.

1969

BIRTH: CapTain and Mrs. RICHARD H.
BASSETT, a daughter, Sarah Linnane, on June
12, 1978. She joins an older sister Catherine, 3,
at home in Washington. Bassett is commander
of headquarters for the U. S. Army Garrison at
Arlington Hall Station. He assumed command
on June 14, 1978.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. FLEMING JR.,
a son, William Terrell III, on Oct. 10, 1977.
Fleming, a foreign service officer, is currently
serving as vice consul at the U.S. Consulate
General in Guadalajara, Mexico.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GLEN P. MATTOx, a
daughter, Melissa Shannon, on Jan. 30, 1978.
Mattox is supervisor of McDonald’s restaurants
in the Baltimore area.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Marc A. SCHEWEL, a
daughter, Sara Elisabeth, on June 10, 1978, in
Lynchburg, Va. She joins an older brother,
David Benjamin.

JEFFREY P. CROpPSEY was recently promoted to
the position of chief, academic division,
headquarters, U.S. Air Force Europe, in
Wiesbaden, Germany. In his new position,
Cropsey directs the counseling function of the
U.S. Air Force education services program in
Europe and serves as a liaison with American
civilian institutions providing courses to Air
Force personnel in Europe. His wife, Christa, is
employed with American Express Co. in
Frankfurt, Germany.

Jorce E. Esrrapa has been promoted to
regional manager for Latin America of the

Petty-Ray Geophysical Division of Geosource
Exploration Co. He lives in Buenos Aires.

Davidson College has appointed ALAN W. LEE
to the new position of development officer. He
is to work with Davidson’s National
Development Council in support of a $35-
million campaign for the 150th Anniversary of
the college in 1987. Lee was director of
development for Charlotte Country Day School.
He lives in Charlotte with his wife, Missy, and
sons, Christopher and Zachary.

MICHAEL W. Pustay has accepted an assistant
professorship at Bowling Green State
University in Bowling Green, Ohio.

1970
MARRIAGE: RicHarp F. Dun tap Jr. and
Katherine Graves Gardner on July 8, 1978, in
Roanoke, Va. John E. Wetsel Jr., °70, and Dr.
Charles A. Holt Jr., "70, were ushers. The
couple will live in Birmingham, Ala. Dunlap isa
financial analyst for Ford Motor Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE E. HONIG, a
son, Charles Edward, on May 20, 1978. Honig
and his wife, Ellen, live in Hinsdale, IIl.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM HarRVEy WISE,
a daughter, Virginia Elizabeth, on June 8, 1978.
She joins an older brother and sister; the family
lives in Bethesda, Md.

Dr. FRANK E. FISHER has a fellowship for work
in diabetes at the University of California at San
Francisco.

MICHAEL T. THORNTON is associated with the
law firm of Hansell, Post, Brandon and Dorsey
in Atlanta.

STEVEN F. UNTI is practicing law with Mitchell,
Clarke, Pate and Anderson in Atlanta, Ga.

RoBErT A. VINYARD, an attorney in Abingdon,
Va., has been appointed to the board of the
Virginia Highlands Community College. In
addition, Vinyard is a member of the board and
executive committee of the Smyth-Bland Legal
Aid Society, the Board of Virginia Highlands
Society, and the State Central Committee for
the Republican Party. Since 1974, Vinyard has
also. served as assistant commonwealth’s
attorney for Washington County.

JOHN H. Zink III (See 1967.)

1971

MARRIAGE: Harortp H. (HAL) CaATLin and
Julianna Claire Mikulas on April 1, 1978 in
Jacksonville, Fla. Among the wedding party
were: William H. Jeter Jr., "71, William A.
Gatlin, ’71, P. Hale Mast, ’72, William C.

French, ’73. Also attending were: Lee R.
Redmond, ’74, Larry Gilmer, ’69, Phil
Norwood, ’69, Curt Jamison, ’70, Cary
Silverfield, °69, Hank Wilson, ’69, Gibson
Wright, ’71, Jimmy Cranford, °75, Ford
Williams, ’74, Jim Newton, ’77, John Lawlor,
72, Gerald Weedon, ’70, and William H. Jeter,
17. Catlin is practicing with the law firm of
Howell, Howell, Liles, & Braddock in Jackson-
ville.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. Oast III, a
son, Thomas Morgan, on June 15, 1978. He
joins an older brother in their home in
Portsmouth, Va., where Oast is a practicing
attorney.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK W. STEARNS, a
son, Frank Warren Jr., on May 5, 1978. The
family lives in Arlington, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SHELBY W. WEDDLE, a
son, Oliver Benjamin, on May 27, 1978, in
Waynesboro, Va.

Bruce W. DERRICK is working independently
on commercial real estate development in
Houston. Presently he has several warehouses
and office buildings under construction there.

STEPHEN J. HANNON received his degree in
orthodontry from West Virginia University in
May 1978. He expects to practice in North
Carolina.

REVERDY H. Jones III is with Carter Oil Co., a
division of Exxon with offices in Houston.

KENNETH W. REED, a teacher of English,
German, and gifted students at Parry McCluer
High School in Buena Vista, Va., has been
awarded a Fulbright Teacher Exchange. Reed
will live in Weisbaden, Germany, where he will
teach English to secondary school students.

STEPHEN A. STRICKLER has become a partner in
the Norfolk, Va., law firm of Doumar, Pincus,
Knight & Harlan.

BRADFIELD F. WRIGHT has just completed his
first term in the ‘Texas House of
Representatives. Wright lives in Houston.

1972
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce W. Cusson, a
second son, Ryan Patrick, on May 24, 1978.
Cusson was transferred in July to New Haven,
Conn., as operating manager of Edward Malley
Co., a division of the Outlet Department Stores.
The family lives in Clinton, Conn.

James S. Davis is a programmer/analyst with
Applied Management Sciences, Inc., of Silver
Springs, Md. Davis did graduate work in
English literature and library science at the
University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill

   

E. L. Gutshall, 73

before entering the computer field. He and his

wife, the former Carol Dawson, live in
Alexandria, Va.
Ropert P. FOLEY was promoted _ to

metropolitan field manager for the Ford Motor
Co. in the Houston district sales office. He was
recently transferred from St. Louis to Houston.

James C. Haypon has been promoted to
assistant secretary and assistant treasurer of
OBA Federal Savings and Loan Association.
Haydon lives in Adelphi, Md.

After a year’s experience with a Richmond
firm, R. TUCKER SHIELDs III is now practicing
architecture with a firm in Cambridge, Mass.

MATTHEW P. STEPHENS graduated from
Northwestern University and is a stage and
screen actor. He has a role in the film, One in a
Million, starring LeVar Burton, which will run
on CBS in early October.

MicHaEL Lee Uniti completed a double
master’s degree at Yale and served four years
with the U. S. Army in Germany and Korea. He
is enrolled in the W&L law school as a first year
student.

1973
MARRIAGE: STEPHEN C. APOLITO’ and
Katherine Psaros on June 25, 1978, in
Hempstead, N. Y. Apolito earned his master’s
degree in accounting from C. W. Post and is
now associated with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell
and Co. in New York.

CHARLES W. Dunn, after graduating from
Vanderbilt law school in 1976, served one year
as assistant to the governor of American Samoa
in Pago Pago, American Samoa. Since 1977, he
has been associated with the Nashville, Tenn.,
law firm of Bartholomew, Cleary and Mudter.

Exuis L. (ELLIE) GUTSHALL has been promoted
to vice president of First Virginia Bank in
Roanoke, Va. He is currently head of the
commercial loan department and also manages
the bank’s construction and real estate lending
functions. He joined First Virginia after
graduation in 1973 at their Falls Church branch
and was transferred to Roanoke in May 1976.

Tim F. HALey, after graduation from the
University of Virginia Law School in June, is
now with the Chicago firm of Shaw,
Fairweather & Geraldson. The firm specializes
in labor law.

For the past two years W. PATRICK HINELY has
served as a staff photographer at Gian Carlo
Menotti’s Spoleto Festival USA in Charleston,
S.C., where his duties included making the
album jacket photos for premier recordings of
Maestro Menotti’s one-act operas Martin’s Lie

and The Egg, as well as documenting
innumerable presentations in various art
forms. Hinely continues work on _his

photographic essays of Florida and jazz
musicians, and recently began a_ weekly
program, “Open Ear,’ on WJCT-FM,
Jacksonville’s NPR Affiliate station.

SIDNEY C. ROSEBERRY has for the past five years
been working with the Peace Corps, principally
in Africa. He settled chiefly in a remote village
in Senegal, where he learned to speak the native
tongue and lived a very simple and primitive
life in a grass hut while helping the natives
determine those projects most needed and to
develop them. He spent two years in a Moslem
village called Gantour, where he supervised the.
150-member tribe on road and well projects.
Roseberry also had a six-month vacation in
France and learned the French language, which
is spoken extensively in urban Africa. In June,
he returned to the States and expects to do
graduate work, perhaps in natural resources,
which he feels will qualify him to assist even
more in training African natives.

1974

BIRTH; Mr. and Mrs. RUSSELL W. CHAMBLISS,
ason, Russell Warren Jr.,on May 13, 1978. The
family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Epwin L. McCoy, a
daughter, Sara Rena, on April 4, 1978. McCoy
is editor of the Greenbrier News Leader in
Lewisburg, W. Va. The family lives in White
Sulphur Springs.

C. RUSSELL FLETCHER III is employed with the
insurance firm of Marsh & McLennan, Inc. in
New York City.

R. LEIGH FRACKELTON JR., after receiving his
LL.M. degree in taxation from the College of
William and Mary, is now associated with the
Fredericksburg firm of Roberts, Crosley, Haley
& Ashby.

KENNETH HurpD is. assistant director of
admissions at Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College in Lynchburg. He was formerly on the
teaching staff at Stuart Hall School in Staunton,
Va.

RICHARD S. McCain graduated from the
Medical University of South Carolina and is
now a resident in internal medicine at Tulane
Medical Center in New Orleans.

Everett A. Martin Jr. has completed a
clerkship with U.S. District Court Judge
Richard B. Kellam and is working in the
congressional campaign for the Virginia 9th
District. In January, 1979, he will begin work on
an LL.M. in taxation at New York University.

James N. NOLAN graduated in May 1978 from
|

 

the Cumberland School of Law in Birmingham.
He plans to take the Alabama Bar examination.

G. WATSON TEBO JR. has enrolled at the LSU
Medical School in New Orleans.

1975

MARRIAGE: Robert A. Cook and Teresa Villa
on Aug. 19, 1978, in Hershey, Pa. Thomas R.
Megna, ’75, was best man. Also in attendance
were B. Troy Ferguson III, ’74; John D.
Mulliken III, 7°75; and Benjamin W.
Brockenbrough, °77. The Cooks live in
Washington, where he isa first year law student
at Georgetown Law Center.

MARRIAGE: Douctas H. Hunt and Mary
Margaret Flynn on Jan. 21, 1978. Members of
the wedding included William H. Biesel Jr.,’75;
Murray T. Holland, ’75; Gary G. Dannelly, ’75;
Lawrence F. Lyles, ’75; John F. Garth, ’75;
Channing J. Martin, 75, ’79L; William O.
Burford Jr., 75; Mark S. Reifslager, ’75; Scott
M. McLaughlin, ’75; William E. Garrison III,
76; and William W. Pifer, ’76. The couple lives
in Dallas, where Hunt works for the Hunt
Energy Corp.

MARRIAGE: FRANK L. (Buzz) WALTERS JR. and
Marianne Jason of Atherton, Calif. on March
18, 1978, in Stanford, Calif. Among the
wedding party were John D. Taylor, ’74,
William S. Pritchard, ’76, and David R. Pittman,
‘75. Also attending was Waller T. (Beau)
Dudley, °74. The honeymoon trip was to
Hawaii. Walters is employed by GATX Leasing
Corp., a subsidiary of General American
Transportation Corp., with offices in Torrance,

Calif. The couple lives in Palos Verdes Estates,
Calif.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EDMOND B. GREGORY
III, a daughter, Elizabeth Lane, on Dec. 20,
1977. Gregory is working as audit supervisor
for the CPA firm of Linton, Shafer and Co. in
Frederick, Md.

WILLIAM TI’. BROTHERTON III is associated with
the law firm of Spilman, Thomas, Battle and
Klostermeyer in Charleston,  W. Va.
Brotherton and his wife, the former Melea
Haines, have a son, Aaron, 2.

Dr. JAMES ELLIs Pope has been awarded a house
officer appointment in internal medicine at
North Carolina Baptist Hospital. A native of
Norfolk, Va., Pope recently received the M.D.
degree from Eastern Virginia Medical School.

PETER G. D. ErtMan has been appointed area
geologist on the Las Vegas District Manager’s
staff of the U.S. Bureau of Land Management.
He is responsible for geologic data in land use
planning for that district and lives in Las Vegas.

ROpDNEY A. FERRANDINO is a realtor-associate on

28

7).

the Monterey Peninsula, Calif. He was married
in June 1977 to Julia Kathleen Dame and they
live in Pacific Grove, Calif. Rod finds time to play
some semi-pro baseball.

R. DUANE FLUHARTY graduated from Rutgers
University Law School in May 1978. He
received a post-graduate fellowship in law at
Cambridge University, England, and will begin
study for the L.L.M. there in October.

ANGELICA DipieER LLoyp, an attorney with
Norfolk and Western Railway in Roanoke, Va.,
has been promoted to assistant general
attorney.

JAMES R. Mozinco graduated from the
Mississippi College School of Law on May 21,
1978.

Joun L. Newman will enroll this fall at the
University of Maryland at Baltimore Medical
School. Newman has been working on a
master’s degree there for two years while
working as a lab technician at University
Hospital.

W. FaIn RUTHERFORD, JR. is an Army trial
counsel prosecutor at Fort Hood, Texas, for the
Army Judge Advocate General Corps.

PETER J. SCHNEIDER has completed three years
of graduate work in anatomy at the University
of Virginia. He expects to receive the Ph.D. in
May, 1979.

STEPHEN A. SMITH, an aviation attorney, has
been named a director of Brent’s International,
Inc., a firm primarily involved in the export of
general aviation planes from the Oakland,
Calif., airport. Smith is also the regular driver
of a stock car in weekly races at the Vallejo
Speedway. He lives in Hayward, Calif.

R. Davip Stamm has been appointed
administrative director of the Connecticut Bar
Examining Committee by the judges of the state
Superior Court.

B. HARRISON TURNBULL plans to attend the
Colgate Darden Graduate School of Business at
the University of Virginia next fall. He and his
wife, Cindy, moved to Charlottesville in
August.

1976
MARRIAGE: WILLIAM ELMORE ADCOCK and
Kathy Jean Smals, on June 17, 1978, in Buena
Vista, Va. Adcock is employed by Virginia
Electric Power Co. They live in Charlottesville.

MARRIAGE: Mark Wayne CLayTor and
Deborah Lee Whittington, on June 17, 1978, in
Buena Vista, Va. Claytor expects to enter T. C.

Williams Law School, and the couple will live in
Richmond.

At the wedding of F. L. (Buzz) Walters Jr., ’75,
are John D. Taylor, ’74, Walters, Mrs. Walters,
William S. Pritchard, ’76, and David R. Pittman,

MARRIAGE: LutrHer H. Duprey II and
Suzanne Crist on June 3, 1978, in Charlotte,
N.C. Dudley is a son of Trustee E. Waller
Dudley, °43, °47L, and Mrs. Dudley is a
daughter of Trustee John L. Crist Jr.,’45. They
live in Charlottesville, where he is a senior in
Virginia Law School.

MARRIAGE: Lr. Matcoum R. Hastincs and
Kathryn Jean Ferguson on March 31, 1978. She
is the sister of James C. Ferguson, ’74, and
Thomas G. Ferguson Jr.,’73. The Hastings live
in Heilbronn, Germany, where he is assigned to
a missile battalion.

MARRIAGE: Lr. Bruce Davis JACKSON and
Sheila Morrison on June 17, 1978 in Millbrook,
N. Y. Jackson is serving with the First Cavalry
Division at Fort Hood, Texas. His bride who
expects to graduate from Hollins College in
December 1978 will attend summer school at
Baylor University.

MARRIAGE: Rosin M. MorGan and Kathryn
Ruth Carter on June 3, 1978 in Danville, Va.
Carl P. Flanagan III, ’75; Robert F. Lindsey,
76; and Thomas N. Keigler,’77, were members
of the wedding. The couple lives in Richmond,
where Morgan isa student at the T. C. Williams
Law School of the University of Richmond.

ROBERT L. AMSLER JR. completed his second
year of teaching at Virginia Episcopal School in
Lynchburg. He and his wife, Julie, live on the
school campus.

Bruce B. DUNNAN, after graduation in May
from the University of North Carolina
Graduate Business School, is now in Atlanta asa
Management Trainee in the Trust-investment
Department of the First National Bank of
Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN L. Gray JR. is an account executive with
Koepenick & Horne, Inc., an advertising
agency in Atlanta, specializing in industrial
accounts and financial institutions. He and his
wife, Emily, live in the Morningside suburb area
of Atlanta.

RICHARD A. KANia JR. is working as a research
technician for Shell Oil Co. in Houston.

JOHN B. KEEFE is a sales representative for 3M
Business Products in Southeastern
Connecticut.

MICHAEL J. MCDONOUGH is working in New
York in the municipal bond department of the
Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust
Co. of Chicago.

WILLIAM H. Moomaw Jr. is in the management
program with Procter and Gamble in Dallas. He
shares a house in Highland Park with Bill
Biesel, ’75, and Tom Faulkner, ’74.

 

‘THOMAS

L. SANSONETTI was admitted and
sworn into the District of Columbia Circuit
Court of Appeals on May 1, 1978. He spent the
remainder of the month touring Europe.

Davip C. WARREN Is a certified public account-
ant practicing with Berry, Dial and Co. in

Salem, Va.
1977

MARRIAGE: FE. Neat Cory II and Lee
Troutman on April 1, 1978 in Augusta, Ga.
Neal is associated with J. J. B. Hilliard-W. L.
Lyons, Inc., a brokerage firm in Louisville, Ky.
His bride is attending law school at the
University of Louisville.

MARRIAGE: James B. Matiory III and
Cynthia Williams on June 17, 1978, in Atlanta,
Ga. Mallory is with the 82nd Airborne Division,
U.S. Army at Ft. Benning, Ga. They live in
Fayetteville, N. C.

MARRIAGE: Paut A. Moretita and Mary
Skoda on July 3, 1978, in Rockville, Md.
Morella is touring the country this fall with
National Players Shakespeare Repertory
Company. He is performing the lead in Romeo
and Juliet. The Morellas live in Rockville.

MARRIAGE: James D. SCHAKENBACH and Laura
Sledz on March 11, 1978. They live in Stafford
Springs, Conn., where Schakenbach is creative
services director for WAAF-FM and WFTQ-
AM in Worcester, Mass.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MicHaeL J. J.
HIGHTOWER, a daughter, Susan Barrett, on
May 15, 1978. Hightower is teaching Asian
studies part time in an Englewood, Colorado
high school and spent part of the summer at an
archeological dig in Utah as prelude to a
master’s degree program in history at the
University of Denver. The Hightowers live in
Littleton, Colo.

EDWIN H. CALLison JR. has completed the first
year of the training program with The Trust
Co. Bank of Georgia in Atlanta.

ROBERT A. CARPENTIER is attending Western
New England School of Law, where he is a class
representative to the student bar association
and achieved law review status.

CHRISTOPHER A. CASCONE is a project leader
with the Youth Conservation Corps at the Fire
Island National Seashore. Previously he was a
park naturalist at the Cape Code National
Seashore. Cascone plans to work in
environmental education and protection.

ROBERT J. FRANK expected to sail from New
York on Sept. 25 on the Queen Elizabeth II for
Cherbourg, France, to begin a trip around the
world. He recently visited Jeff Fluck, ’77, in
Abingdon, Va.

W. CHRISTOPHER W. HAYNES Is in law school at
Southern Methodist University and_ plays
midfield for the SMU club lacrosse team.

RANDOLPH J. KRAMER is a Management trainee
with Color Tile Supermarts, Inc., in Cincinnati.

EVERETT A. MarTIN, JR. (See 1974.)

JAMES C. Roor has enrolled at the Graduate
School of Business and Public Administration
at the University of Denver. He is studying fora
career in international business.

WILLIAM C. STANZEL has been appointed an
account executive in the Westgate office of
Prescott, Ball and Turben, an investment firm.
Stanzel is active in amateur tennis tournaments
and lives in Rocky River, Ohio.

1978
MARRIAGE: JOHN DouGLAas HERMAN and
Leslie Susan Nelson on June 3, 1978, in
Lexington, Va. Herman will attend the
Princeton Theological Seminary.

MARRIAGE: James K. Lapxy and _ Julie
Osborne of Kalamazoo, Mich. on July 22, 1978.
Ladky is a sales trainee with F. W. Ladky
Associates in Milwaukee.

MARRIAGE: Joun S. StTrRoNG and Carol

Rittenhouse on June 24, 1978. Strong is
enrolled at the University of Stockholm,
Sweden.

MARRIAGE: CHRISTOPHER G. WILLETT and
Marian Potts on July 29, 1978, in Anniston, Ala.
Willett is an advertising account executive for
WDNG Radio in Anniston.

Davip I. ABRAMS is assistant director of public
information and publications at Sweet Briar

College.

FRANK F. Barris an attorney for Dow Jones and
Co. in Princeton, N. J.

MICHAEL A. BOWMAN is associated with the
Erdahl Law Offices in Monticello, Iowa.

KeITH DouGLas BOyYETTE Is a clerk for Justice
A. Christian Compton of the Virginia Supreme
Court. Justice Compton is a Trustee of
Washington and Lee.

CHARLES V. Brown II isastaff accountant with
Coopers and Lybrand in Huntington Station,
N. Y.

JOHN H. COLLMus is teaching science at Parry
McCluer Middle School in Buena Vista, Va.

RopNEY M. Cook Jr. served as chairman of
“Youth for the Fox,” a group of young Atlanta

At the wedding of Luther H. Dudley II, ’76, are (left to
right) Don Sharpe, ’69; Craig Jones, ’73; President
Huntley, ’50, 57L; Richard Middleton, ’73, ’76L; Mrs.
Huntley; Martha Huntley; Mike Christovich, ’76; Bill
Cogan, ’76; Mrs. E. Waller Dudley; Luther H. Dudley;
E. Waller Dudley, ’43,’47L; Mrs. Luther H. Dudley; John
Embree, ’74; Dorothy Tull; Chappy Conrad, ’73; Beau
Dudley, ’74, ’79L; Tim Thompson, ’74; Bryan Baldwin;
Farns Hotchkiss, 58; Torrey Armstrong, ’70; Lee Keiger,
°76; and Rush Dickson, ’76. (Present but unpictured were
John L. Crist Jr., 45; Walter Robertson, ’76; Sam Brown,
°76; Stowe Rose, ’78; Ben Johns, ’78; Joe McMahon, ’77;
Harold Howe, ’76; James White, ’51; Scott Stevenson, ’76;
and Howell Morrison, ’76.)

people who worked successfully to save the
historic Fox Theater in that city from
demolition.

Emiuia Maria DEMEO is a trial attorney for the
Department of Justice. She is living and
working in Washington.

DENNIS M. DOUGHERTY and JILL Epwarps
DouGHERTY are both working in Charlottesville
as editors for The Michie Co.

ALEXIUS A. Dyer III is teaching at St. Timothy’s
School in Baltimore.

WILLIAM P. EFirp is associated with the law firm
of Greene, Buckley, DeRieux and Jones in
Atlanta.

BRIAN W. HUTTON is employed by the Joplin
Globe Publishing Co. in Joplin, Mo.

Jack Daves KopaLp is a law clerk for U.S.
District Court Judge Harry W. Wellford in
Memphis, Tenn.

CHARLES R. McELweEE II is attending law school
at West Virginia University.

JOHN C. PARKER is associated with the law firm
of Savell, Williams, Cox and Angel in Atlanta.

C. RANDOLPH PLITT is working in Dallas as an
accountant for Dallas Light and Power Co.

W. FAIN RUTHERFORD Jr. (See 1975.)

STEVEN G. SCHWARTZ lives in Virginia Beach
and is associated with the Norfolk law firm of
Seawell, McCoy, Dalton, Hughes, Gore and
Timms.

2ND LT. GreGory C. SIEMINSKI is serving in the
U.S. Army Military Intelligence Branch. After
completion of his basic course at Ft. Huachuca,
Ariz., in November, Sieminski will report for

three year’s duty at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii.

JAMES R. SWANSON is an attorney for the
Roanoke County Commonwealth’s Attorney
office in Salem, Va. Swanson is living in
Roanoke.

DEREK C. SwoPE is associated with the law firm
of Sanders and Austin in Princeton, W. Va.
Swope will serve as class agent for the 1978 law
class of W&L.

MicHaEL M. McG. WALLIs is attending law
school at Stetson University.

Roy DAviD WARBURTON is an attorney for the
Supreme Court of Virginia in Pulaski.

Epwin W. WRIGHT is teaching English and
music and is director of the glee club at Blue
Ridge School in Dyke, Va.

29

 

IN MEMORIAM

1914

FRANCIS PICKENS MILLER, scholar, churchman,
soldier and politician, died August 3, 1978, in
Norfolk, Va. A private funeral was conducted
at the grave in Lexington’s Stonewall Jackson
Memorial Cemetery. Col. Miller spent much of
his early life in Lexington and Rockbridge
County. He was Washington and Lee’s first
Rhodes Scholar and = attended Oxford
University. After graduation he served as
associate national secretary of the World
Student Christian Federation in Geneva,
becoming chairman in 1930. The Millers settled
in Fairfax County and from 1938 to 1941, Col.
Miller represented the county in the state
legislature. Miller re-entered the army in World
War II and became a member of Gen.
Eisenhower’s staff with the rank of colonel. In
1949, Col. Miller ran for the Democratic
nomination for governor against John S. Battle.
In 1952, he ran against Harry Byrd in the
senatorial primary. Between 1954 and 1960,
Col. Miller served as a member of the central
committee of the World Council of Churches.
From 1961 to 1965, he was special assistant in
the bureau of Cultural Affairs, Department of
State. Col. Miller served on the boards of the
United States Military Academy, the College of
William and Mary, and Mary Baldwin College.
He held honorary degrees from Centre College
and Washington and Jefferson College. Miller
was decorated with the Legion of Merit in 1945,
and he also held the French Croix de Guerre
and the French Legion of Merit. His son,
Andrew Miller, is currently the Democratic
party's candidate for United States Senator.

1918

JACKSON Rosse COLLINS, a lawyer who served
on the board of directors of the Queen Anne’s
County Historical Society, died July 16, 1978.
Mr. Collins served 38 years as counsel to the
Beneficial Finance Corp., both in New York
City and Wilmington. While there, he wrote
many articles on the laws governing the making
of consumer loans in the 50 states and Canada.
He was a 50-year member of the American Bar
Association and a former president of the
Conference on Personal Finance Law. He was
also a member of the American Law Institute.
At his death Mr. Collins was a member of the
board of directors of the Peoples Bank and
Trust Co. in Wilmington, Del., a member of the
Sons of the American’ Revolution, the
University Club of Washington, and the Farm
Bureau.

1921
ELMER AXTELL STUCK, a prominent architect of
Jonesboro, Ark., died July 25, 1978. He was a
senior member of the architectural firm of
Stuck, Frier, Lane, Scott and Beisner with
offices in Jonesboro and in Little Rock. The
firm designed most of the major buildings of
the Arkansas State University. Mr. Stuck
designed many public buildings in northeast
Arkansas including the Craighead County
court house, the Jonesboro city hall, the
Criaghead County jail and the Jonesboro public
library. He also designed the medical arts
building at Hot Springs, which is one of the
tallest buildings in Arkansas. Mr. Stuck was a
past board member and president of the State

30

Architect Licensing Board and a corporate
member of the American Institute of
Architects.

1922

RANDOLPH FRANTZ, a well-known Roanoke,
Va., architect, died June 4, 1978. Mr. Frantz,
who had practiced architecture in Roanoke for
50 years, was responsible for the design of a
number of the public buildings, including the
Roanoke public library, the Hollins College
chapel, structures at Hampden-Sydney College
and Coker College, S.C., and the YMCA
building in Roanoke. Frantz was chairman of a
committee that helped establish the Roanoke
Fine Arts Center. The firm in which he was
senior partner has received three awards for
excellence in design from the Virginia Chapter
of the American Institute of Architects.

WILLIAM Epwin NEBLETT, a prominent attor-
ney of Lunenburg, Va., died March 1, 1978.
Mr. Neblett was a Commonwealth Attorney
from 1924-1948. He had also been a former
Commissioner of Accounts for the Circuit
Court of Lunenburg County. He was a former
member of the board of directors of the
Farmville Community Hospital in Farmville,
Va.

1923

EpwarD AULL JRr., a long-time distinguished
educator and teacher in Birmingham, Ala.,
died July 20, 1978. In his career, Mr. Aull

taught in high schools in Puerto Rico and at

Hoke High School in Atlanta, Ga. He was also a
teacher at the Birmingham Center of the
University of Alabama. He began teaching at
Phillips High School in 1928 and in 1957 was
named principal. He retired from this position
a few years ago.

1925

Dr. James G. SMITH JR. died June 25, 1978, in
Hendersonville, N. C. Dr. Smith was a native of
Birmingham, Ala., and had retired to
Henderson County in 1972. He practiced
medicine for more than 40 years in Illinois,
Kentucky, New Mexico, and Florida, where he
operated his own hospital in Wauchula. After
retirement from medicine, Dr. Smith was
superintendent of education for Hardee
County, Fla. He was a member of the American
Medical Association, a fellow of the Association
of Abdominal Surgeons and the College of
Obstetricians and Gynecologists. He was also an
Army veteran of World War II.

1926

EaRLE ASHLAND CapMus, retired general
district judge, died July 22, 1978. Judge
Cadmus retired in 1974 after 48 years of public
service, including 20 years with the local courts.
His last position was with the Municipal Court
of the city of Chesapeake, Va. He began his
public career as one of the state’s youngest
legislators when he was elected to the General
Assembly at the age of 25 in 1927. He served as
a member of the Virginia House until 1934,
when he declined to seek re-election. In 1954
Cadmus was appointed associate judge of the
Norfolk County Court and served until 1974,
when he retired as judge of the General District
Court for Chesapeake.

WELLs WOLFE Horsey, a longtime resident of
Wilmington, Del., died April 7, 1978, in
Oxford, Md.

Cot. CARL JORGAN WALLIN, a retired civil
engineer for Virginia Hot Springs Inc., died
Feb. 19, 1978. He had been chief engineer at
The Homestead for many years. A veteran of
World War II, Wallin was also a retired senior
warden of the Episcopal Church.

1929

Harry S. STEPHENS, a prominent Shreveport,
La., attorney, died April 18, 1978. He was a
member of the Shreveport Bar Association, the
Shreveport Club and served with the Judge
Advocate General’s office during World War
Il.

1931

HILTON HENDRICKSON Mount, a long-time
resident of New Egypt, N. J., died at his home
June 15, 1978. After graduation from W&L, he
was associated with his father in the E. H.
Mount & Sons Meat & Grocery business and
later became the sole owner. After the sale of his
business, Mr. Mount became associated with the
Ocean Spray Cranberries, Inc., of Bordentown,
N. J., until his full retirement in 1975.

1935

Jack REID CUNNINGHAM JR., a retired civil
engineer for the Norfolk & Western Railroad,
died June 23, 1978, at his home in Roanoke, Va.
He was a life member of the American Railway
Engineering Association and holds the Silver
Beaver Award for services in the Boy Scouts of
America. Cunningham was a member and an
elder of the Northminster Presbyterian
Church.

1936

HARRIS KEMPNER OPPENHEIMER, a former
wholesale beer distributor in San Antonio,
Texas, died June 7, 1978. He was president of
Halo Distributing Co.

1943

FREDERICK OTT ByRER, a prominent attorney in
Charles Town, W. Va., died May 23, 1978. He
was a veteran of World War II and served with
the U. S. Army in New Guinea, Philippines, and
Okinawa.

1952

ROBERT KING KELLY, a prominent attorney with
the firm of Jackson, Kelly, Holt & O’Farrell of
Charleston, W. Va., died May, 1978. Mr. Kelly
held a four-year term as clerk of the West
Virginia Judiciary Committee. He served from
1960 to 1963 with the Kanawha County
Planning and Zoning Commission and between
1961-64 was on the Governor’s Advisory
Committee on Traffic Safety. He was very
active with the Boy Scouts of America and
received the Silver Beaver Award from the
Buckskin Council in 1969.

1960

Dr. JAMES BOETTCHER DUCKETT, a teacher in
the Southwestern Medical School in Dallas,
died June 17, 1978. Dr. Duckett had received
his medical degree from Baylor College of
Medicine. He had taken his residency in
anesthesia at the University of Pennsylvania.
While at Southwestern Medical School_he had
been the staff anesthesiologist as well as a
teacher and supervisor of interns and students.

SG 54G NG 5G SHG IHG ING BHC DHE DNC DG IGG 55 HCG DNC DCI 5 DH DC DGG GHG HG DHCD IGG 5 CDG 5G DGG G5 NC DCI DH DG SG CSG 55 ICCC

 

Pennants: 8% inch, $0.50; 30 inch, $3.59;
14 inch, $1.29.

 

Twin size 905 wool blanket with rayon
trim, stamped emblem, $43.99.

SuoTey

BRE Bicep y

Background—twin size, 100% navy wool
blanket with white wool edging, $66.49;
Child’s T-shirt, sizes 2-14, $2.19; White
terry baby bib, navy stamped, $2.95;
Child’s T-shirt, sizes 2-16, $2.95.

Adult T-shirt, $4.89; Child’s T-shirt 2-16,
$5.25; V-neck jersey, $6.10.

   

 

Gifts Galore
from the
WoL

Supply Store

Order Blank on Next Page

OH Fie 5
aS

a

  

oo eet 3 ess
Rorneres creeper tts a

Blanket background, $43.99 (see second
picture at left); Adult T-shirt, $4.69; V-
neck jersey, $6.10; Chip shirt for football,
lacrosse, tennis or soccer, $9.19.

Adult Windsor shirt, $4.99; Child’s
Windsor shirt, $4.19.

gsm ek ates
Br as

Sas]

 

Tie, $9.00; Rainbo shirt, colors navy or
vanilla, $11.20; Blazer buttons, 18 ct.
gold-filled, blue and white enamel,
$19.99.

 

 

Deerskin-lined rayon coach’s jacket, SM L
XL, $23.29.

 

Ceramic mugs, crest in red and blue, 16
oz., $8.39; 12 oz., $4.89.

 

Coffee mug, crest in red and blue, $2.99;
Pitcher, 2 qt., $12.00; Tall mug, $5.40.

    

Glass mug, navy and red emblem, $2.79;
Ashtray, navy and red emblem, $2.29;
High Ball glass, 12 oz., $1.79.

31

 

Thermometer plaque with seal, $15.00;
Book ends with seal, $19.00.

   

Wilton pewter tankard with crest, $11.00;
Wilton pewter ashtray with crest, $5.50;
Wilton pewter tankard with seal, $11.00.

there are any questions.

University Supply Store
Washington and Lee University
P. O. Box 913

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Description of Item/Items:

 

You MAY ORDER from the pictured items and also from the list of items at
the right, many of which are not pictured. Send no cash or checks. You will be billed
for your order, plus postage and handling, and 4% Virginia sales tax, if applicable.
To expedite your order and to discuss the details, you may call the Washington
and Lee University Supply Store, (703) 463-9111, Ext. 311. If you use the order
form below, give a full description of the item or items desired—sizes, quantities,
colors, etc. Also include your telephone number so that you can be consulted if

All prices are subject to change without notice.

Please send me the following item or items and bill me for the charges, plus
postage and handling, and 4% Virginia sales tax if applicable.

   

Double Old Fashioned glass, 15 oz.,
$1.89; Single Old Fashioned glass, 7 02z.,
$1.79; Shot glass, 1% oz., $0.99.

 

Pen stand with seal, $11.00; Ashtray with
cigarette holder and seal, $12.75.

 

 

 

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

 

Telephone

State

Zip

 

 

 

82

Or telephone your order: (703) 463-9111, Ext. 311.

 

Items available from the Washington and
Lee University Supply Store:

CERAMICS

Mug, 20 oz. beer ............... $5.99 & $8.39
Mug, 12 oz. beer ............... $4.89 & $4.99
Mug, 7 02. coffee .........eeeeeeceeeeeees $2.99
Mug, 10 oz. coffee 0... eee $5.39
Pitcher, 2 Qt. 0... cecceccccccceeeeeeseeetees $12.00
AShUray woe. eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaes $1.00
Bank, football 0.00.0... cece eee eeeeeeees $5.19
GLASSWARE

Pilsner Glass, Crest ..........c..cecceecceeees $2.59
Pitcher, beer, gold crest. ................. $4.89

Highball, 12 oz., red/blue crest,

gold lip
Highball, 12 0z., red/blue crest
Old Fashioned, 15 0z., red/blue crest $1.89
Old Fashioned, 7 0z., red/blue crest $1.79
Shot Glass, 1% oz., red/blue crest ..$ .99
Ashtray, 6 11. ..06:.s5..c.cccureetentesenaneeeet $2.19

Ashtray, haxagon ........eeeeeeeees $1.49
Bud Vase, gold crest ............ccceees $2.79
PEWTERWARE
Tankard, CreSt ..........cccccccceeceececeess $11.00
Tankard, glass bottom, crest ........ $28.49
Tankard with lid, crest ................. $33.19
Tankard, sal 205.0 $11.00
POO $5.50
Door Knocker, brass, crest,

Namie plale 5. se. $10.00
CLOTHING
Wael Ties) ee $9.00

Youth T-Shirts, navy on white and

white on navy, 2-4, 4-6, 6-8,

8-10, 10-14 oe... $3.19 to $4.19
Adult T-Shirts, SM L XL .$3.79 to $11.20
Rugby Shirts, S M L XL .$5.00 to $11.20
Sweat Shirts, SM L XL ....$5.49 to $7.89
Sweat Shirts, hooded, S M L XL ..$10.00

Baby BID ......... ce eeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeee 2.95
JEWELRY
Blazer Buttons, blue & white enamel

on gold-plate ....... eee 19.99
Charms 0.0... eee ce cee eececeececeececeececceeeeee 3,50
Necklaces, 12 ct. gold-filled .........$10.50

HOME OR OFFICE

Pen Stand, wood base,

NSE Feces. accese $11.00 to $18.00
Bookends .............cccccccccccecececececeees $19.00
Paper Weights ................87.00 to $12.00
Pencil Holders ...............00.............9 11.00

Barometer Plaques or
‘Thermometer Plaques $15.00 to $29.00

Letter Openers ...............$1.50 to $10.49
Playing Cards 0... cceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee BDO
Stationery .........eeeeeeeeeeeeee 1.79 to $3.79

era feae one cence LS. ALLL OH ACEO ATONE AIDE NE ALLL DETOE AAS HG

Shenandoah

SPRING 1978

$1.50

 

Shenandoah

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

NY ters of this stature appear in SHENANDOAH:

ROBERT PENN WARREN ROBERT LOWELL
ALLEN TATE RICHARD HOWARD
PETER [TAYLOR REYNOLDS PRICE
ELIZABETH BISHOP W. S. MERWIN

Roy FULLER JOYCE CAROL OATES

[wo stories that appeared in SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards for distinguished
brief fiction.

Won’ you subscribe to Washington and Lee
University’s award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 727

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
[J] One year @ $5.00 [| Two years @ $8.00
My check for 5 enclosed.

 

Name |

 

Address

 

City State Zip

or Spa Oe AO AT HE ALENT ALONE ALOE ASIA OE ALLO ASLO ALFIE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

CF

 

 

 

Evelyn Huntley, wife of President Huntley,
models the original Frankie Welch WSL scarf.

The
Perfect
Gift

A W&L lady’s scarf, created ex-
pressly for Washington and Lee by
the noted fashion coordinator and
designer, Frankie Welch, is now
available. The scarf is 8% inches by
33% inches with blue W&L design
on white Qiana nylon. It makes a
welcome and attractive gift for the
Washington and Lee woman in your
life. Order one (or several) today:
$10.00 each, including postage.

order and check to
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

Send your

 

Name

 

Address

 

City State Zip

Check for $ enclosed.

 

 

   

 

