igh

Ee

NOVEMBER 1975

a

PO ii 3

iversity

Se eee eed

=
~
vu
Uv
—_—
oO
mS
w
i)
©
—
OO
=
G
“
w
=
Nabe

i magazine oO

+ the alumn

 

 

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 50, Number 8, November 1975

William C. Washburn, 740.....0000....000 eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68............0...00ceeee Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel........000000.. Editorial Assistants

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, Sally Mann.......... Photographers

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Weekends of Work and Fun |... ]
' Parmly Hall Dedication |... ci adabeanerss 6
Glasgow Symposium 2.0.00... 8
Thomas is New Trustee ........00.00......ccccccecceeteee. 12
Campus NeWS oo... ere 13
Winter Athletic Schedule 0... 18
ROTC Enrollment Climbs .................................... 19
Distinguished Alumnus Award. .........000..0..0.00..0 05. 20
Chapter News oo.....0.0.cccccccc cece tect tenes 22
Malone Trophy 0.0.0.0... cece tee t eee 26
Class NOtes o........000ccccccccccccecceeececccreveteeeeeeegeeevevrrreees 27
In Memoriam ooo... ceees 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

C. Royce Houeu, 759, Winston-Salem, N.C.
President

VERNON W, HOLLEMAN, 758, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

"THEODORE M. Kerr, 757, Midland, ‘Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

THoMAS B. BRANCH, III, 758, Atlanta, Ga.
EpwIn J. Foutz, 40, Gladwyne, Pa.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Ho tis, 51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy, Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
Jerry G. Sout, 54, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES C. STEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas Toucnton, ’60, Tampa, Fla.
Rospert M. Wuirte, II, 738, Mexico, Mo.

ON THE COVER: “Cable Nine,” the new televi-
sion teaching arm of the Department of Journalism
and Communications, went on the air in October,
with Bill Oglesby, ’77, as anchorman for the pre-
miere newscast. The station is operated through an
arrangement with the Lexington Cable Co. and
specializes in news, public affairs, and documentary
programs. See Page 15. Photograph by W. Patrick
Hinely, ’73.

 

 

nih

4
SA)

~%)

eries of busy autumn weekends
rings hundreds to the campus

Autumn is as busy as it is beautiful on the Washington
and Lee campus. This year was no exception. A series of
weekend programs brought hundreds of people—mostly alum-
ni and parents of students—to see the University, to hear and
talk about its purpose and progress, and, of course, to enjoy
themselves. On Sept. 19-20, more than 50 Class Agents and
guests came for workshops and social events. Next came the
delegates—more than 50—to the eighth Special Alumni Con-
ference on Oct. 8-9. These delegates, meeting in small groups
with University officials and student leaders, took an in-depth
look at academic affairs, student life, finances, and admis-
sions and student recruitment. Then on Oct. 10-11 came
Homecoming and Class Reunions (1930, 1940, 1945, 1955, and
1970) with more than 250 alumni and guests attending.
Finally, more than 1,200 parents, brothers, and sisters of stu-
dents came for Parents’ Weekend on Oct. 31-Nov. 1. The pic-
tures on these pages are a small sample of how it went.

 

 

The Alumni House,
and their guests, was
that is always a part

its open porches filled with visiting alumni
the focal point of much of the social activity
of a big Washington and Lee weekend.

 

TOP: A social hour during the Special Alumni Conference brought
together (l-r) Billie Bert Armstrong, ’42, of Roswell, N. M., Dr.
William A. Jenks, °39, professor of history, Waller C. Hardy Jr.,
39, of Vienna, W.Va., and Mrs. Hardy.

LEFT: At a Class Agents workshop, Maynard Turk, ’52L, Carter
Allen, ’48L, and John Newton Harman III, ’40L, discussed Alum-
ni Fund procedures.

ABOVE: Class Agents Mac Squires, '73L, Angelica Didier, ’"75L, and

Benjamin B. Cummings, ’70L, were attentive to a point raised
by fellow Class Agent John C. Moore, °73L.

 

“=

 

 

TOP LEFT: Robert E. Lee IV, ’49, of McLean, Va., and class-
mate M. W. Paxton Jr., 49, of Lexington enjoyed a light moment
during a Special Alumni Conference social hour.

TOP RIGHT: Dr. John W. Poynor, 62, of Birmingham, Ala.,
joined W. Scott Franklin, °77, Dean of Students Lewis G. John,
58, Jack Sadler III, °76, president of the Interfraternity Council,
and Leland McCullough III, 76, president of the Student Body,
at an Alumni Conference session on student life.

ABOVE: Parents attended seminars on University affairs during
Parents’ Weekend. In right foreground are Dr. David Cayer of
Winston-Salem, N. C., chairman of the 1975-76 Parents’ Fund, and
Mrs. Cayer, whose son, David, is a senior.

LEFT: James C. Ambler, °18, of Richmond had a word at the
Special Alumni Conference for Director of Development Farris P.
Hotchkiss, ’58.

 

-

ees

bs
tae

BE Ly

pee

ee
a
Bi

7

Fee
ee

 

LEFT: Members of the Class of 1940 posed
for their class picture on the steps of the
Lee House. They are (first and second rows),
Mr. and Mrs. Ernest Woodward, Mr. and
Mrs. Jack Akin, Mr. and Mrs. New Har-
mon, Mr. and Mrs. Wilbur S. Metcalf; (third
row), Mrs. Bill Washburn, Mrs. Arthur
Mann, Mrs. Bill Saunders, Mrs. Blakey Wal-
ker, Miss Emmy Lou Bullard; (fourth row),
Bill Washburn, Mrs. Tom Bruce, Arthur
Mann, Bill Saunders, Blakey Walker, Lea
Booth, and Charlie Curl; (fifth row), Mike
Crocker, Tom Bruce, Dabney Watts, John
F. O’Connor, Mrs. Lea Booth, and Hamil-
ton Disbrow.

BELOW: The Class of 1930 reunion brought
together James W. Davis, Mr. and Mrs. Ken-
neth Keil, Mr. and Mrs. Bim Stults, Mr. and
Mrs. William Hinton, Rupert Latture, ’15,
and James Merrick.

 

 

Miss Ruth Parmly is special guest
at ceremony honoring her father

Miss Ruth Parmly of New York City was guest of honor on
Oct. 17 at a ceremony marking the renaming of the Uni-
versity’s “new science” building in honor of her father, the
late Prof. Charles Howard Parmly. It was Miss Parmly’s first
visit to the campus.

The building was renamed Parmly Hall in recognition of
Miss Parmly’s $1.5-million gift last winter to the University’s
endowment in support of faculty salaries and academic pro-
grams in the sciences.

More than 100 faculty members, students, and administra-
tive officials, including most members of the University’s
Board of Trustees, attended the afternoon ceremony and
greeted Miss Parmly at a reception afterward. That evening,
Miss Parmly was a special guest at the annual black-tie ban-
quet for the Robert E. Lee Associates, at which University
trustees were hosts.

The ceremony was held inside Parmly Hall because of
rain. It had been scheduled to be held in the redesigned en-
tranceway to Parmly Hall—a brick-walled plaza landscaped
with some 20 English boxwoods, among which brick walks
have been located leading between Parmly and Howe Halls.

Ceremony speakers were University President Robert E. R.
Huntley, E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., rector of the Board of
Trustees, and Dr. Edward F. Turner Jr., professor of physics
and head of the department. They expressed the University’s
gratitude to Miss Parmly and praised her father as a dedicat-
ed scholar and an extraordinary teacher of undergraduates
who would have been at home in the classrooms and labora-
tories of Parmly Hall.

Prof. Parmly taught physics and engineering at the Col-
lege of the City of New York from 1888 until his death in
1917. He founded CCNY’s engineering school and became its
first professor and chairman only four months before his
death.

Miss Parmly’s gift is one of the largest in Washington
and Lee’s history and the second largest since the beginning
of the University’s comprehensive development program for
the 1970s. Through that effort, almost $28 million, including
Miss Parmly’s gift, has been raised so far against a 1976 in-
terim goal of $36 million.

Miss Ruth Parmly of New York City (top) was the special guest at
a ceremony marking the dedication of Parmly Hall. As part of the
dedication ceremony, a portrait of Miss Parmly’s father was un-
veiled (right) by Leland McCullough, president of the Student
Body. The portrait hangs in the foyer of the building.

 

 

 

 

              

        

  
     
    

 

  

 

   

 

 

  
 
 
 
  

   

 

 

   

 
 

 

 

  
   
  
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
  
  
   

   
   
      

   
                             
 
  

      
     
    
  

   

   

— : oe : ; 7 7 - - a
- . - - - - :
- - - -
’ - - | .
- - - 7 oe - : . 7
- - 7 7 - . - - / . : ;
3 : 7 ; : : : :
coe _ : - : : - : - - |
_ - — . : - - - - - -
. “ye oe : : : : : a ; ; -
- - 7 - ; - - - :
- - - 7 . - - - . - 7 :
- - ‘ . - - :
4S 7 : : 7 - - : 7 7 . - _ 7
Sees: - - SS - a 7 - . 7 a
fm - / : : : / ; / ; oo
oa - - - - - > - a : 7
. - - - 7 : - : 7 - - - - 7 : - -
- - - oe - ; 7 - —
- - 7 - - 7 - - 7 - - -
- a : 7 a | - : ; - ; ; 7 : a
a - - ; - oo - - - - - - - - - - oe
- - - - - a - - - oe - - 7
- a : - / - - 7 - 7 7 - 7 - a - - - ; -
oe - - - a a _ 7 a - - - - - : -
bike Hl - 7 a ae a - a - 7 - 7 - ; 7 -
- - . - - - - - - - - - - - - :
; met me eS etites 5 en = ed = OS ; a ; OS
- a - a OO a So . a
: oi an De i : ; : ;

    

   

   

 

      
  
 

   

 

 

se -
- -
OO

  

 

 

 

 

    

 

 
   
    
  
    

 

  
    
 
 

SS
oe
_ >
ee ; :
Site :
-
ee -
ee >
ee 7 —
.
= i St a 3 i
i s = a
S

  

 

 

 

  
 

   
 
 

 
      
 
  
    
    

  

  

 
    
    
  

   
   
           

 

  
 
   
 

 

 
   

  

     

   

- 7
oo
a
a
as
tp
| *
7 ; f . i es ; Tm
og ate 2 c : m /
- 5
; “SS So

 

a s

 

  

 

Parmly Hall Ceremony

 

 

 

The remarks of Dr. Edward F. Turner Jr., professor
of physics and head of the department, at the ceremony
naming Parmly Hall:

In this brief ceremony, we christen a building and
dedicate it to the memory of Charles Howard Parmly.
The act of christening does not, of course, confer char-
acter upon a building any more than it does upon a
young child. But nameless buildings have a way of re-
maining as featureless as nameless children. And it is
therefore always satisfying when a building can acquire
this essential perquisite of identity from the gift of a
generous friend. It is particularly appropriate, that is to
say, there is an essential rightness—an aesthetic union of
logic and sentiment—when an academic building car-
ries the name of a distinguished scholar and _ teacher.
A building is the focal point of much human endeav-
or. It is conceived in response to a felt human need,
and it carries indelibly in its frame the art of the
architect, the ingenuity of the engineer, and the arti-
culation of its artisans. However, again like its human
counterpart, it will bring honor to its name only if its
essential purposes are well served by the spirits that in-
habit it and give it life and meaning. Art is long and
time is fleeting, said the poet. I take this to mean that

 

the arts of men—those liberal arts that liberate us from
the fetters of ignorance and superstition, that il-
luminate the remote recesses of the world we live in and
delinate man’s relationship to it—that these arts tran-
scend time. It has long been a hallmark of Washington
and Lee that education in the sciences has been regard-
ed as an integral part of this liberating process. As [|
understand it, this is the principle which also motivated
Charles Howard Parmly in his classroom and in his
laboratory. It is the spirit in which Miss Parmly’s gift
was Offered, and the University by its acceptance of the
gift affirms again its own dedication to the principle.

 

 

oe |

+

~~

Miss Parmly was greeted by more than 100
W&L professors, students, staff members and
friends, as well as almost all the members of
the University Board of Trustees, at an in-
formal reception following the rededication
of the “new science building” to her father’s
memory.

 

 

 

 

 

Heart of the Heart
Willie Masters’

 

 

 

Walker Percy

The most gentle of the participants, Grace Paley is a
native New Yorker. She writes predominantly about her
city experiences, yet has an appetite for writing about
things she wants to investigate and learn more about.

“If you know a lot about it, it’s boring,’”’ she says. She

is concerned about storytelling and wants to revive both
the oral and literary tradition. The dearth of storytelling,
she feels, contributes to the widespread alienation and
loneliness that many people currently experience. ‘‘As a
writer, I have several obligations; one of them is to write
as well as I can. I feel a moral responsibiilty for the future
of literature. Is there a way for people to tell stories to

one another again and to bring one another into that
kind of speaking and listening and attending community?”
She is trying to revive literature as a shared experience by
reading aloud with her husband and by “making everyone in
my class read aloud to each other.” She also writes finely
wrought stories that involve and invite the reader to “move
into the space left for him by the author.” She has pub-
lished her stories in two volumes: The Little Disturbances of
Man (1959), and Enormous Changes at the Last Minute
(1974).

Like Gass, Paley has an enthusiastic respect for words—
particularly in the American language. In New York, she
experiences and exults in “our hospitality of tongues.”
“This language of ours, in this country, is always being re-
freshed—scrambled up and knocked around, coming up from
the bottom again and again.”

 

“Every explorer names his island Formosa, beautiful. To him
it is beautiful because, being first, he has access to it and can
see it for what it is. But to no one else is it ever as beautiful—
except the rare man who manages to recover it, who knows that it
has to be recovered.”

“The Loss of the Creature,” from The
Message in the Bottle, by Walker Percy

Walker Percy, another National Book Award winner,
represented the traditional Southern novelist on the panel.
He balked at Gass’s radical belief that truth, as the key-
stone of literature, should be abandoned. Percy replied
by saying, “It’s hard for me to imagine any novelist not
being motivated by some desire to approach or converge on
some kind of truth. If I didn’t think that I wouldn’t
bother to set pen to paper.”

During the opening evening of the symposium, Percy
reminisced about his first visit to Lexington many
years before. While in undergraduate school at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, he came to
Washington and Lee, prompted by his interest and ad-
miration for Robert E. Lee. In the years since that initial
visit, he has distinguished himself as a fine novelist: The
Moviegoer (1960), The Last Gentleman (1966), Love in the
Ruins (1972), and as an essayist; The Message in the
Bottle (1975).

Not only does Percy insist on truth in literature, he
holds some other conventional views about writing as well.
Like Grace Paley, he agrees that fiction writing should
contain a story. “I don’t want to read a piece of fiction if
there isn’t a story involved.” He believes the role of the
author and writer is to replace worn out words and “to
create new language by way of metaphor.’’ He admits,

“I always have been extremely interested in metaphor and
the extreme potency of metaphor as a creator of meaning.
When you oppose very different nouns, you get all kinds of
reverberations of meaning between the two that generate

a new kind of meaning that sheds light on both terms.

I come from Mississippi and the black people there are
very inventive about language. They often mistake the
correct word and use another word that is close to it, not
the same, and always better. For example, we use to have
coin record players made by Seeburg Corp. and black
people called them ‘‘sea birds.” I always thought “sea
bird” was a tremendous name for a coin record player.”

1]

Alumni choose Calvert Thomas
for the Board of Trustees

Calvert Thomas, secretary of Gen-
eral Motors Corp. and associate general
counsel in charge of GM’s legal staff in
New York, has been elected to the Uni-
versity’s Board of ‘Trustees.

A 1938 graduate of Washington and
Lee, ‘Thomas was nominated for trustee-
ship by a vote of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association. He was chosen
from a slate of three candidates select-
ed by a special alumni committee. Three
seats on the W&L board are reserved
for alumni nominated in this manner.
The board confirmed ‘Thomas’ election
at its fall meeting on campus.

‘Thomas has been corporate secretary
of GM since 1973. The 18-lawyer staff
which he heads has primary responsibility
for the corporation’s relations with stock-
holders and with the Securities and Ex-
change Commission, for overseas legal
and investment matters, for registration
and private placement, New York work-
men’s compensation matters, and a wide
range of other legal activities.

After graduating from Washington
and Lee, ‘Thomas earned his law degree
at the University of Maryland. He en-
tered private practice and later was a
lawyer for the federal government be-
fore joining GM in 1946.

‘Thomas was chairman of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Alumni Fund in 1973-74
and 1974-75. During that period, annual
giving by W&L alumni—gifts in support
of current operating expenses—increased
by more than 22 per cent. Contributions
reached a record of $505,204 last year,
with an annual gift exceeding $112, also
a record.

Thomas is a member of the Ameri-
can, Federal, New York State, New York
City, Maryland, Michigan, and District of
Columbia Bar Associations. He is ex-
tremely active in professional and civic
affairs. He has been chairman of the
board of trustees of Kingswood School in
Bloomfield Hills, Mich., and a council-
man and two-term president of Franklin
Village, Mich., before the family moved
to New York.

12

 

 

Calvert Thomas, alumni-chosen trustee, is greeted by friends.

He and Mrs. Thomas have a daugh-
ter, Mrs. Carolyn Brooke Thomas Dold,
and two sons, Calvert B. ‘Thomas and
Douglas M. Thomas, who is a second-
year student in the Washington and
Lee School of Law.

Also at its autumn meeting, the W&L
board swore into office IT. Hal Clarke, a
distinguished Atlanta lawyer and a 1938
graduate of W&L, who was elected to
board membership last spring.

The board also presented to Judge
John Minor Wisdom, who will retire
from the board in January after serving
since 1957, a silver tray bearing the en-
graved signatures of all members of the
board. Judge Wisdom is chief judge of
the Fifth U. S. Circuit Court in New

Orleans. After his retirement, Judge Wis-
dom will become a trustee emeritus.

Four trustees were re-elected to ad-
ditional six year terms. They are E. Mar-
Shall Nuckols Jr., rector of the board,
John L. Crist Jr., Jack W. Warner, and
John W. Warner.

Nuckols is senior vice president of
Campbell Soup Co. and was the first
trustee elected under the alumni-nomi-
nation procedure adopted in 1969. Crist
is an investor in Charlotte, N. C.; Jack
Warner is president and board chair-
man of Gulf States Paper Corp. in Tus-
caloosa, Ala., and John Warner is ad-
ministrator of the American Revolution
Bicentennial Administration and former
Secretary of the Navy.

 

Five handsome reproductions from the University’s Reeves Collection
and ‘‘Arms of Liberty” punch bowl. The large bowl and matching cup

el news briefs

REEVES COLLECTION REPRODUCTIONS

TO AID W&L EDUCATIONAL BUDGET

QO) A series of faithful reproductions of pieces in the Uni-
versity’s Reeves Collection of 18th-century Chinese export
porcelain is now on the market.

The reproductions—made in Limoges, France, where some
of the finest contemporary porcelain is now manufactured—
are marketed by Foreign Advisory Service, Inc., through an
arrangement with Washington and Lee. Foreign Advisory
Service specializes in highest-quality reproductions, and among
the other institutions whose art treasures it reproduces and
distributes is Colonial Williamsburg.

W&L receives a significant royalty on the sale of each
reproduction toward its educational operating budget.

Available now are five pieces, each reproduced from an
original dating to the Revolutionary War era or the earliest
years of the new nation:

—A large “Saturday Night” mug dating to about 1795, of
the kind a well-to-do merchant seaman might have acquired
for his own use. The “Saturday Night” slogan, inscribed
above a ship with American flags flying, was a popular 18th-
century motif. The reproduction mug is priced at $42.50.

—A tall “spill vase” dating to the last decade of the 18th
century, decorated with a brilliant blue Fitzhugh border with
delicate floral patterns. The Fitzhugh border was one of

MOR IGOGOL
* ee 3 Se 3% *2
VU ak

POM «© Lieeary

are now available: mug, tall vase, creamer, two-handled cup,
will be available next year.

the most popular designs, and is characterized by stylized but-
terflies, fruits, flowers and traditional geometric Chinese de-
signs. The spill vase is priced at $55.

—A creamer copied from an original dating to the mid-
1700s, very close to the founding in 1749 of W&L’s prede-
cessor institution, Augusta Academy (later named Liberty
Hall). It is decorated in encre de chine, a uniquely Chinese
black, highlighted in gold with peony branches and small
scattered flowers. Such designs are among the earliest which
Chinese artisans made for Western purchasers. ‘The creamer
is priced at $25.

—A magnificent two-handled coffee cup decorated with
the Great Seal of the United States and a blue border at the
rim highlighted by gold garlands. ‘The original was made at
the end of the 18th century or very early in the new century.
The cup is priced at $30.

—A medium-size punch bowl, the original of which was
made about 1775. The bowl is inscribed “Arms of Liberty”’
and bears the likenesses of John Wilkes, a British sympathiz-
er with the Colonies, and Lord Mansfield, who was Wilkes’
judge. Ironically, at the time the “Arms of Liberty’’ bowl was
crafted, all such wares were transported to the Colonies on
British ships. The reproduction bowl is priced at $115.

Next year, Foreign Advisory Service will add several other
reproductions to its Bicentennial line, including a large punch
bowl with matching cups, each decorated with a striking
“hunt scene” showing a hunter on horseback jumping a
fence, with hounds at the feet of his mount.

The reproductions may be ordered from James W. White-
head, Office of the Treasurer, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia 24450.

13

 

Jeanne T. Richards, a

clerk in McCormick Library,
operates ‘‘Solinet” computer
terminal, which permits the
library staff to obtain infor-
mation on almost any book
from a cooperative data bank.

 

John D. deButts, chairman of
the American Telephone &
Telegraph Co., delivers public
affairs lecture sponsored by
the alumni of the School of
Commerce, Economics, and
Politics.

 

Anchorman Bill Oglesby pre-
pares to launch the premiere
newscast on “Cable Nine,”
the University’s new television
station, with the help of fellow
students, Prof. Ronald Mac-
Donald (left), professor and
head of the Department of
Journalism and Communica-
tions, and Jeryl Davis

(right), instructor in jour-
nalism.

th

 

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
 
  
    
  
  
    
    
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  

 

Butts, chairman o of American Telephone & Tele.
id 7 1 a enterprise in the tele-

 

    

a
mh tition for competition’ s sake,” deButts said, ‘seems
“to insufficient guide to public policy.” oe:
- ts, a graduate of Virginia Military Institute, spoke
" a and Lee University in an annual public af-
¢ ries sponsored by alumni of W&L's Scho
7 onomics and Politics.

 

 

 

 

  
 

“instantaneously. tO
vy acq uisitions | a form

 

 
 

a computer t terminal rm1CK
“call up” information: on | virtu all

 

giving individual attention to _

‘untried at

‘Hall ueoans binky as” tradition has it, im)

 

library staff “is able to ‘devote | much more of its time to
the University’s students and
teachers and to others who use McCormick — and that, after
all, is our primary objective.”
_ Four other Virginia libraries : are e also members of “"Solinet"
— “the. Virginia. State Library in Richmo ademi
libraries at the University of Virginia, William and Mary,
and Virginia Commonwealth University (formerly | Richmond
Professional Institute). OO ee \

 

 

 

+

WkL TV STATION. BEGINS OPER. \ TION
O The University’s new television station, Channel Nine, be-
gan broadcasting this fall on Lexington’s cable television sys-
tem. “Cable Nine” provides 2¥% hours of local and syndicated
public-aftairs programming, including a 15-minute state and
area newscast each evening. W&L operates the station through
an arrangement with the Lexington Cable Co., enabling jour-
nalism students to receive valuable on-the-air broadcast train-

 

 

ban provided in par by the cable
| Ug Peruana from. other
, the CBS-TV out-

 

 

| scvenyearold FM radio

a The fae cra productions this year of the University

  

Theatre (formerly the Troubadours) were Aristophanes’ The
Birds and Samuel Beckett's Endgame — each directed by a

 

 

-W&L drama major as his senior-year thesis project. —

The Birds was directed by Lecky Stone of Richmond, who

said he. chose | the Greek classic because he found the script

 

enjoyab e and because comedy in that style has not been per-
dat Wk&L for a number of years. Similarly, Hugh Sis-

 

| ‘sion Vv of Baltimore, director of Endgame, chose that play
- because. of an appreciation, for the challenge of the script and

 

cause he was eager to attempt Beckett’ Ss absurdist sree “aise
WR&L for several years. Se
In February, the Theatre will produce the Bro adway musi-
cal 1776 as a formal pare oF the University's S American Bicen-
tennial observance. a ee a error ease

 

 

LIBERTY # HALL'S, FIRST (GRADUATES
he first 12 men to receive college degre

 
   
 
 
 

    
 

   

1 Church- ~but ac ever

 
 
  
 
  
 

continuing this: scl rolarly im

early history this year, made ‘the obser’

ao address to the Rockbridge Hist tC
is spending the year as the first post-g)

 

duate “Liberty Hall

 

educa: |

ri vical Society. i Waton

 

 

 

 

Scholar,” working in cooperation with Dr. John M. Mc-
Daniel, assistant anthropology professor, on the Liberty Hall
archaeological excavation.

Watson’s research has shown that although eight of the 12
members of the Class of 1782 were ordained ministers, the
group also included the founders or presidents of three col-
leges. Several others were trustees of various schools, includ-
ing Liberty Hall (and later Washington Academy), and most
in fact were teachers.

CONTACT’S ALL-STAR LINEUP
(] The University’s annual student-organized symposium,
“Contact,” has arranged for visits to the campus next March

 

ALUMNI ARE ASKED TO HELP
W&L GRADUATES FIND JOBS

 

Placement Director Michael A. Cappeto: He appeals to
alumni for help.

L] No one knows the value of a Washington and Lee
education better than its alumni. So it is only natural
that the University is asking its alumni to help W&L
graduates find jobs.

Michael A. Cappeto, the University’s new director
of career counseling and placement whose job is to help
students define their career goals and find suitable em-
ployment, believes Washington and Lee alumni can
be particularly helpful—during this period of a tight
job market—by informing the University Placement OFf-
fice of job openings in their firms and businesses.

“IT want our alumni to consider hiring our students,”
he said. “Even if no job openings are available now,
it would still be useful to obtain names of alumni who
are interested in helping fellow graduates find jobs. In
this way, we can develop a file of former W&L men—
where they live and work—and use it as a reference in
helping future graduates.”

Alumni who are in a position to hire W&L graduates
or to put them in touch with prospective employers
should make this information available to the Office of
Placement, Washington and Lee University, Lexing-
ton, Virginia 24450.

It is another way in which W&L men can help their
University.

 

 

 

16

by such distinguished commentators and observers as Fred
Graham, legal reporter for CBS News; Jimmy Breslin, the
iconoclastic writer; George Plimpton, the sports world’s pro-
fessional amateur; Charles R. McDowell Jr., a 1948 W&L gra-
duate who is a columnist and Washington correspondent for
the Richmond Times-Dispatch (and recipient of the honorary
Doctor of Letters degree at graduation last spring); and Jeff
MacNelly, the Pulitzer Prize-winning political cartoonist for
the Richmond News Leader. “Contact,” which is exploring
the theme “Continuing American Revolutions’ this year, has
already co-sponsored (with the 1976 Mock Democratic Con-
vention) the visit in November of David Broder, Pulitzer
Prize-winning political reporter for the Washington Post.

“LIBERTY HALL COLLECTION” SALES

BRING $50,000 IN ROYALTIES

J Washington and Lee University has broken the $50,000
mark in royalties it has received from Wamsutta Mills on
Wamsutta’s “Liberty Hall Collection,” the series of three
designs for bedclothes patterned after the decorations on
18th-century pieces in the University’s Reeves Collection of
Chinese export porcelain.

In mid-November, official textile industry reports showed
that one of the three, Porcelain Butterfly, has become one
of the 10 best-selling patterns in America during 1975.

Under the Wamsutta-Washington and Lee arrangement,
the University received a percentage royalty toward its edu-
cational operating budget from Wamsutta’s sales of the three
patterns. The $50,000 royalty figure is more than double what
Washington and Lee and Wamsutta had initially hoped
would result.

TURNER IS AUTHOR OF NEW BOOK

CU] Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor of history, is the editor of
Capt. Greenlee Davidson, C.S.A.: Diary and Letters, 1851-63,
published this fall by McClure Press. The diary—third in
a trilogy of historical biographies Turner has published in
recent years—traces the career of Capt. Davidson, a Rock-
bridge County native and Washington College graduate who
was killed in the Civil War. The book contains a number of
fascinating insights about pre-War college life and is hand-
somely illustrated with a number of rare pictures from the
files of the Rockbridge Historical Society (of which Turner
is official librarian). The publisher’s price is $6.50, but alumni
may purchase it from the W&L Bookstore for $5.85 (taking
advantage of the special 10 per cent alumni discount) plus
postage, which Bookstore Manager Betty Munger reports will
be about 28 cents.

FACULTY ACTIVITY

CL) A Washington and Lee law teacher and three law school
graduates have been named to a nine-member committee to
propose a standard formula for jury instruction in both civil
and criminal cases in Virginia.

The W&L men on the joint bar-judiciary panel are James
M. Phemister, assistant professor in the School of Law; Judge
Paul D. Brown, ’41A, ’43L, of Arlington; Judge J. Aubrey
Matthews, ’42A, ’48L, of Marion, and Atty. William B. Poff,
'55L, of Roanoke.

The result of the group’s work is expected to be a two- or
three-volume set of uniform jury instructions, to be com-
pleted late in 1977 or early in 1978.

(] Dr. John H. Wise, professor of chemistry and head of the
department, attended a symposium this fall on atomic spec-
troscopy, one of his principal fields of research. Wise had

competition

-

OO

of the conference

ex- by a son, Charles

 

Oo
a

Meet
i

&

es

s

7

o2i

i!

ein

-

a

 

 

 

ee

3 ind out in a crowd, as once they did,
va and they don't devote their lives to —

be practical to keep.
ools, includir

=e

AN OR et

19°

a _
ete mre te Ne et wet

.

 

 

 

 

 

i
5

iversity

Un
ti
the
. Un
nd
ATIO

i

nal se-

e
e

vers
S,

fi
Alumn
NS I

on

.

°

the
minat
kes
r
a
N

“yea
I

tl

-

Hun
ay.

 

a

in

e

on

Ati

nl
s—n

10n

e

the Alum

lect

 

istin

e

1S

Now
a 1976 D

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

as
—_

 

 

 

Va

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CC eee e rere sececrscsccrereerecece eee ewer ree

ons or business |

 

ee eee

ioe

 

       
 

eee eee cece

     
   
 
         

  
 

 

ee

 

 

 

ee

a

eee ere were ee nce eee enter eee essere eeeeree

 

i
ee ge >

- - ars

 

 

     

            

oe

 

a wwe were meee reer arrose s essere eseseee

  
   

attendance

eC

 

 

  

 

eee

‘Yes or No

errs eeeee

: : : J :
mmm ew meee e rere rere eereseresrereceeeserserere
: - : SO - Oe

o

woe re rere sree esr ees eesroererseresesereeeseres ese

Pe

meme emer rere eee ree rere eeeeesesees

woe

a

ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- military, philanthropic, political, etc.)

Ye »ponsor s
eee eee eee reer e een n enero eter ewer nrees

meee err e rere e res eere sere esreeernsesrerveseres

.

.

.

.

.

 

 

 

 

Ce

 

 

ee

 

 

ee newer eee eee en eene

ee meee eres ereseces

eee rere oes rresr secs

Ch

ee id

; wo
eee De ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee eee eee
:

 

.

,

,

eee ee ee eee ee ee ee eee eee rete ee eer ee roses errrrreeeerseeeereseereeereeeesesere

CC
7 ee _ ;
i

scene Pe es

m

ce

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ment of

 

 

  
 
  

   
     

 

   
    
    
     
 
  
   
   
        
     
      
 

  

 

 

 

   

 

 

  

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
  
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

FLORIDA WEST COAST. The 11 in-
coming freshmen from the Tampa Bay
area were honored at a cookout at the
home of George W. Harvey Jr., 63, chap-
ter president, on Aug. 20. There are five
freshmen from Tampa, one from St. Pe-
tersburg, one from Clearwater, one from
Sarasota, one from Lake Wales, and two
from Lakeland. Forty-nine alumni attend-
ed the gathering. Hosts were Harvey,
Crowell T. Dawkins Jr., 53, Donald W.
Belveal, ’63A, ’65L, J. Thomas Touchton,
‘60, and Michael L. Carrere, ’71. The 11
freshmen follow last year’s group of
seven men from the ‘Tampa Bay area.

PENSACOLA. Alumni and their wives
from the Pensacola area were pleased to
have Vernon W. Holleman Jr., ’58, a
member of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors, as a special guest at a meeting held
Aug. 20 at the Executive Club in the
Charter Bank Tower in Pensacola. Holle-
man gave a report on the University and
then conducted a question-and-answer
period. His presentation was enthusiasti-
cally received. The arrangements for the

Chapter
news

meeting were handled by C. Miner Har-
rell, ‘71, and Robert D. Hart Jr., ’63.
Plans were announced for the reactiva-
tion of the chapter, and proposals for
future meetings were discussed.

PENINSULA. The chapter honored the
six entering freshmen from the area at a
reception and dinner Aug. 21 at the
James River Country Club in Newport
News. Attending from the University
were Dr. John DeVogt, professor of ad-
ministration, Bill Washburn, alumni sec-
retary, and Marty Bass, assistant alumni
secretary. Dr. DeVogt spoke to the group
on “What is in the Future for W&L.”
He was introduced by Marty Bass. The
arrangements were made by Dr. Voss
Neal, ’51, chapter president, and Ben A.
Williams III, ’71, secretary. Dr. Neal in-
troduced the six freshman, and the chap-
ter gave them a round of applause. Dur-
ing a business session, the following new
officers were named: Charles R. Spencer
Jr., 59, president; Ben A. Williams III,
‘71, vice president; and Phil M. Dowding,
D2, secretary-treasurer.

22

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pa
he
-

o

 

 

Pensacola—Vernon W. Holleman Jr., °58, (center), a member of the Alumni Board of

 

om

  

ui “=

 

Directors, with Charles C. Sherrill, ’60, (left) and Donald H. Partington, ’61.

‘ on

Charlotte—C. Royce Hough,

      

a
7 . : ae
| SPEELN

‘59, president of the Alumni Board of Directors, talks with

alumni during picnic supper at the home of William S. Baker, ’66.

CHARLOTTE. Honoring the incoming
freshmen from the Charlotte area, a
group of enthusiastic alumni gathered on
Aug. 13 at the home of William S. Baker,
‘66, for a picnic supper of hot dogs and
beer. Baker and Harry J. Grim, ’52A,
‘54L, past president of the Charlotte
chapter, made the principal arrange-
ments for the evening. Joining in the
festivities to welcome the new students
were C. Royce Hough, ’59, president of
the Alumni Board of Directors, John L.
Crist Jr., 45, a member of the Univer-
sity Board of Trustees, Bill Washburn,
alumni secretary, and his wife, and Marty

Bass, assistant secretary. During a short
business meeting, the following new chap-
ter officers were elected: David T. John-
son Jr., 68, president; Harry A. Berry
Jr., “49, vice president; J. Pegram John-
son III, ’66, secretary; Alan W. Lee, ’69,
treasurer.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. Alumni,
their wives, and guests gathered Aug. 27
at the Maryland Room of the Sheraton
Motor Inn in Hagerstown in honor of
the five freshmen from the area and their
parents. The large group extended a
warm welcome to Dr. James G. Leyburn,

 
  

wy

 

Charlotte—John

      

arin
pe
a oa

Sahbwe aude yy

L. (Jack) Crist Jr., “45, (left), a member of the University Board of

Trustees, discusses University affairs at Charlotte outing.

 

Cumberland Valley—Officers (standing) are George I. Smith Jr.,

 

23% “

 

 

 

 

PURI R SE BOO titty: POLE COM GID ea aS ts 5 aay ap

 

 

56, Oakley Seibert, ’71L,
Ken Long, 69, E. Mason Hendricks, 44, and Clovis M. Snyder, ’51, and (seated) A. A.
Radcliffe, 37, Judge Bob Clapp, °30, and Charles Beall, °56.

 

 

Philadelphia—E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., 33, rector of the Board of Trustees, and Edwin

J. Foltz, ’40L, a member of the Alumni Board of Directors, talk with Charles Comly, °72,

and Marty Bass, ’70.

professor and dean emeritus, who is now
living in the area. J. Oakley Seibert, ’71,
chapter president, presided at the dinner,
which was preceded by cocktails. Among
the guests from the University were Bill
Washburn, alumni secretary, Marty Bass,
assistant secretary, and Dr. John Mc-
Daniel, assistant professor of anthropo-
logy, and their wives. Dr. McDaniel pre-
sented an excellent program on the ar-
chaeological research now in progress at
the ruins of Liberty Hall, showing color
slides of the work. His talk was receiv-
ed enthusiastically. During the business
session, the following new officers were

elected: M. Kenneth Long Jr., 69, Hag-
erstown, president; Dr. George I. Smith
Jv., °56, Frederick, vice president; E.
Mason Hendrickson Sr., ’44, Hagerstown,
secretary-treasurer. Directors named were
Judge Robert Clapp, ’30, Dr. Clovis Sny-
der, °51, Charles Beall, °56, Oakley Sei-
bert, ’71, A. A. Radcliffe, ’37, and John
McCardell, ’37.

PHILADELPHIA. In a setting appro-
priate to the forthcoming Bicentennial
celebration, the chapter met at the Free
Quaker Meeting House Aug. 26 in honor
of the 12 incoming freshmen from the

 

area. After a short cocktail period, a slide
film was shown of the Meeting House,
built in 1783, and of the Free Quaker
movement. This was followed by a buffet
dinner and a talk by Dr. John McDan-
lel, '64, assistant professor of anthropo-
logy at W&L. Chapter president Wick
Hollingshead presided and paid special
tribute to John Kelly, 66, who had made
the arrangements. Present at the meeting
was E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., ’33, Rector
of the Board of ‘Trustees. Marty Bass,
‘70, new assistant alumni secretary, was
introduced by Bill Washburn, who in
turn handled the introduction of Dr. Me-
Daniel. McDaniel told of the archaeolo-
gical excavations and research on the
campus at the site of the Liberty Halil
ruins and related them to the proud his-
tory of Washington and Lee. After the
meeting, many alumni and wives, as well
as freshmen and their parents, went to
Independence Mall for a historical light
and sound program.

UPPER POTOMAC.
ni from the area gathered at Ali Ghan
Shrine Country Club in Cumberland,
Md., on Aug. 20. Their special guest was
Richard O. Bolden, a rising junior at
Washington and Lee, who spoke briefly

A group ot alum-

about his campus experience. Albert D.
Darby Jr., 43, whose term on the Alumni
Board of Directors expired in June, also
spoke briefly about the University and
the work of the Alumni Association.
The chapter unanimously approved a
motion to give Bolden a $150 grant to
assist in his financial needs at Washing-
ton and Lee. Plans were made for a fu-
ture meeting of the chapter.

JACKSONVILLE. Taking advantage of
a spectacular view from the penthouse
floor of the new Atlantic National Bank
Building, the Jacksonville Chapter gath-
ered on Aug. 23 to honor the incoming
freshmen and their parents at a cocktail
reception and dinner. Chapter president
W. M. (Bill) Ball, 69, introduced the
new students who were given a warm wel-
come by the alumni, their wives, and
guests. Representing the University were
William A. Noell Jr., ’64, associate dean
of students and coordinator of the tresh-
man year, who addressed  briet _ re-
marks to the freshmen, and Mr. and Mrs.
Marty Bass, ’70, assistant alumni _ secre-
tary. Ball was joined by Donald B. Cart-
wright, 72, and Harry M. (Hank) Wil-
son III, 69, in making the evening’s ar-
rangements.

WASHINGTON. Enjoying the gracious
hospitality of Randy Rouse, ’39, the chap-

23

ter held a lovely garden party and din-
ner Aug. 28 at the Rouse home on Wil-
son Boulevard in Arlington. One of the
largest groups of alumni, wives, and
guests on record shared a delightful even-
ing in honor of the 33 freshmen from the
area and their parents. Cocktails and a
buffet dinner were served around the
spacious swimming pool. Robert Frost,
‘68, president of the chapter, joined
Rouse in greeting alumni and guests as
they arrived. A short program featured
the introduction and recognition of the
new freshmen. Attending from the Uni-
versity were Mr. and Mrs. Bill Wash-
burn, 40, alumni secretary, and Mr. and
Mrs. Marty Bass, ’70, the new assistant
alumni secretary. President Frost express-
ed deep appreciation to Rouse, who re-
ceived a round of applause.

NEW YORK. The chapter’s annual stag
dinner held on Nov. 3 at the
Princeton Club in Manhattan with a
large group of alumni attending. Among
the special guests were Robert E. R.
Huntley, president of the University;
John Newton Thomas, former rector of
the Board of ‘Trustees; Calvert ‘Tho-
mas, newly elected member of the
board; Bill Washburn, alumni secretary;
and Marty Bass, assistant alumni secre-
tary. A delicious dinner was preceded by
cocktails. President Huntley gave an
inspiring talk on the goals and _ self-
doubts of educational institutions in gen-
eral and on the goals, strengths, and chal-
lenges of Washington and Lee in parti-
cular. A question-and-answer period fol-
lowed his remarks, which were enthusias-
tically received. James O. Mathews Jr.,
‘70, outgoing president, presided and re-
ceived a treasurer’s report from Em-
mett Poindexter, ’20. The report showed
a balance of receipts over expenditures.
Richard Warren, ’57, reported for the
nominating committee, and the following
officers were elected: Jaroslav (Josh) Dra-
bek, 53, president; Emmett W. Poindex-
ter, 20, secretary-treasurer; and also area
vice presidents and council members.
The new council members are James O.
Mathews, Jr., °70, William H. Bender,
51, and Donald W. Bourne, ’51. The
meeting ended with an expression of
appreciation to Mathews for his lead-
ership as chapter president.

WaS

PALMETTO. A stag smoker, held in
the elegant setting of the Summit Club
in downtown Columbia, was attended by
an enthusiastic group of alumni on Oct.
22. The occasion marked the reactiva-
tion of the chapter and saw the election
of the following officers: Philip Grose Jr.,

24

{ - a4 we F A ve
oy em, Pirie a? 4%

*

Philadelphia—Dr. John McDaniel, assistant professor of anthropology, tells alumni about

 

ciel
eet i

the Liberty Hall archaeological excavation at the Free Quaker Meeting House.

bib ts fi as } + uu

oo eee
a
he A

a’

New York—At headtable are Emmett W. Poindexter, ’20A, ’23L, University Trustee Calvert

5
A 4
Oh

Stk

  
   

Thomas, ’38, James O. Mathews Jr., "70, University President Robert E. R. Huntley,
BOA, ’57L, and Trustee Emeritus John N. Thomas, ’24A.

Washington, D.C.—In conversation are Randolph D. Rouse, ’39, Paul B. Cromelin Jr., "49,

and Robert J. Frost, ‘68.

60, president; ‘T. Patton Adams IV, ’65,
vice president; and John W. Folsom,
'73, secretary-treasurer. Chapter directors
named were William C. Boyd III, ’62,
Thomas B. Bryant III, ’59, of Orange-
burg, Wilson H. Lear, ’51, William H.
Townsend, ’50, and Claude M. Walker,
Sr., ’41. Attending from the University
were Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn,
who presented a few color slides on some
of the new facilities at the University,
and Assistant Secretary Marty Bass, who
gave a brief report on the profile of the
current freshman class and other aspects
of the admissions program. The chapter

/

Lae

was especially pleased to have T. B.
Bryant Jr., 28, of Orangeburg, a distin-
guished alumnus and a founding member
of the chapter, attend the meeting. After
President Grose took the chair, the mem-
bers discussed briefly ideas for future
activities of the chapter.

MIDDLE TENNESSEE. A small group
of interested alumni met on Oct. 24 with
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn, at his
request, to install officers for the newly
created Middle Tennessee chapter. Alum-
ni from the Nashville area and neighbor-
ing communities enthusiastically ratified

 
   

4

‘

“4

ar es = ‘ ee é j

 

Washington, D.C.—Posing for photograph are Will Hill Tankersley (a parent), Mrs.
Robert E. Lee IV, Robert E. Lee IV, ’49, and Mrs. Tankersley.

 

Richmond—Alumni gathered at the Chalet of the Bull and Bear Club to hear a report
by outgoing president, Robert E. Payne, ’63A, ’67L.

 

Richmond—With Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn (top right) are (seated) E. A. (Ned)
Powell Jr., "70, Jesse Williams III, 65, and Robert E. Payne, and (standing) Anthony

J. Frank, ’59, and Robert M. Turnbull.

the official name of the chapter and
unanimously endorsed the following of-
ficers: Ben Gambill, 67, president; Ro-
ger Milam, ‘67, vice president; and
Frank Berry, '46, secretary-treasurer. The
group discussed ideas for future programs
and established the from
which the chapter will draw members.

boundaries

BIRMINGHAM. At the invitation of
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn, a
small group of alumni met for lunch at
the Downtown Club on Oct. 23 to dis-
cuss reactivation of the Birmingham
chapter. The following officers will carry

out plans for reactivation: Richard S.
Abernethy, °72, president; Charles D.
Perry Jr., '73, vice president; David R.
Pittman, °75, secretary; and Felix M.
Drennen, ’73, treasurer. Abernethy made
arrangements for the gathering. ‘The
group discussed at length the kinds of
functions and programs the chapter
might undertake and a possible schedule
of events. All chapter ‘members will re-
ceive further information about the plans

and are encouraged to participate.

RICHMOND. The chapter held its fall
business meeting Oct. 30 at the Chalet

of the Bull and Bear Club. A large group
of enthusiastic members attended. Ro-
bert E. Payne, ’63, presided and called
up several items of business mentioned
in the chapter newsletter which had been
mailed to all members. The chapter ap-
proved a committee in connection with
the Alumni Admissions Representatives
Program with Walter J. McGraw, ’55, and
John J. Fox Jr., 57, as co-chairmen. The
chapter then discussed the responsibili-
ties of the committee. A proposal to es-
tablish a Richmond Chapter endowed
scholarship, after discussion, was deterred
for further study. The chapter then
approved the establishment of the John
Newton Thomas Distinguished Alumnus
Award. This award named in honor of
the former rector of the Board of ‘Trus-
tees will go to an alumnus rendering out-
standing service in the community and
to the University. New officers elected
were Jesse F. Williams, ’65, president; E.
Angus Powell Jr., ’70, first vice president;
U. Bryan Puckett Jr., ’49, second vice
president; Anthony J. Frank, ‘59, secre-
tary; and Robert M. Turnbull, ’72,
treasurer. Guests from the University at-
tending the meeting were Farris Hotch-
kiss, director of development; Bill Wash-
burn, alumni secretary; and Marty Bass,
assistant secretary.

LYNCHBURG. A large group of alum-
ni met recently for cocktails and heard
Athletic Director Bill McHenry report
on the W&L football season. His talk was
well received. After the program, a busi-
ness session was held and the following
officers were elected: Henry M. Sackett
III, 64, president; Rodger W. Fauber, ’65,
vice president; and E. Starke Sydnor, 66,
secretary-treasurer. The chapter decided
to hold its annual Christmas dance on
Dec. 5 and appointed a committee to
organize a banquet to be held in Febru-

ary.
MOBILE. Washington and Lee alumni
of the Mobile area were honored at a

_

private reception on Oct. 7 at the Mo-
bile Art Gallery. The occasion was a
gallery exhibit of the University’s eigh-
teenth-century portraits of the Washing-
ton-Custis-Lee families and important
items from the Reeves
Chinese Export Porcelain. Mobile was
the only place in Alabama where both

the portraits and the porcelain, both on

Collection of

tour as part of the University’s Bicenten-
nial observance, were on exhibit at the
same time. Arrangements for the recep-
tion were made by Howard M. Schramm
Jrv., ’64. Alumni were enthusiastic about
the reception and the exhibits.

25

Cote

se 5!

 

 

mes directly 1

a

>.

ng each year. Re-
II, '59, of Winston-

a

Toe

ee

 

 

 

 

 

rado College, received the award for Dis-
tinguished Contribution of Education pre-
sented annually by the> Colorado > Springs
chapter of Phi Delta Kappa, an honorary
education fraternity. The award is pre-
sented to an outstanding educator. During
Worner’s presidency, Colorado College has
adopted the widely recognized Colorado Col.
lege Plan, or “Black Plan, "ur

students take | ‘one course at a time for. a
period of three and one-half weeks. Earlier,
Wor ner helped establish the college's s honor

rember with a ieeee picnic
the fairgrounds in Halifax,
political leaders, as well as
ns, were all present to pay

 

“university. campus. in the Rocky. Mountain
region. After y ae eaduate wor at Prince-
SuELL, retired vice-president of
yrd Press in Richmond, Va., is at

 

University reading in.

lish literatute and in- yplogy.
ner is a past member of. the board of di-
rectors of the Bacon of Bnei : Col-

tion. He is ‘the immediate past "president of
the board of directors of the Associated
Colleges of Colorado and a member of the
Advisory Council of Presidents of the As-
sociation of Governing Boards of Col eges |
and Universities.

 

“the scholarship
ry of John Gra-

World. Cluxton, who practiced at the Mayo
Clinic and Foundation in Rochester, Minn.,
for two years, served as a major in the
Medical - Corp of. the U. S. Army during
World War II. He was chief of general
~ medicine Army/Navy General Hospital in
Hot Springs National Park, Ark. Cluxton has
n ihen of medical achool clinics and

 

3 snes’ Paytie and “McCausla
elected the and. of ee

 

 

 

OO

BS

we

 

 

 

ee

of the Public -
was the

 

 

 

Parke S. Rouse Jr., ’37, executive director of
the Jamestown Foundation and director of Vir-
ginia’s American
the author of a major new book, Virginia: A
Pictorial History, just published by Charles Scrib-
ner’s Sons. The book, described in a Richmond
Times-Dispatch review as “unique, a one-of-
a-kind type of enjoyment...
through more than 368 years of Virginia his-
tory,” focuses considerably on W&L, with pic-
tures from Liberty Hall to Dr. Francis Pendleton
Gaines. Through the alumni discount given

by the W&L Bookstore, the book is available by
mail for $18 plus postage (rather than the

office of Wheat, First Securities, an invest-
ment firm.

RoBeErT E. SHEPHERD JR. (see class note 1959).

1962

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN M. Corwin, a
daughter, Amy Lynn, on July 10, 1975. Cor-
win is a trustee of Madison Jewish Com-
munity Council and was recently asked to
serve as chairman of the Madison Jewish
Cultural Series.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. W. BARTON DICK, a
son, Joseph Kevin, on Aug. 30, 1975. The
young man joins an older brother. Dick is
an orthopedic surgeon in Lexington, Va.

H. ALLEN CURRAN, a member of the Smith
College faculty in Northampton, Mass., has
been promoted to associate professor of geo-
logy. Before joining the Smith faculty in
1970, he was assistant professor in the de-
partment of earth, space, and graphic science
at the U. S. Military Academy, West Point,
N. Y. He is a member of the Geological
Society of America, American Association of
Petroleum Geologists, Social and Economic
Paleontologists and Mineralogists, and the
American Association for the Advancement
of Science.

R. WILLIAM Ibe III, who practices law in
Atlanta, has been named chairman of the
American Bar Association’s Young Lawyers
Section. —The announcement was made at
the ABA’s annual meeting in Montreal last
August. Ide will serve as a_ policymaking
member of the executive committee of the
75,000 member section. He was the secre-
tary in 1973-74 and was chairman-elect last
year. Ide is also the immediate past president
of the Georgia State Bar’s Young Lawyers
Section.

BARTON S. MITCHELL is president of The
Mitchell Group of Baltimore, Md. The com-
plex includes E. S. Mitchell Inc., the Bitu-
minous Construction Co., the Bituminous
Emulsion Co., and Alan E. Barton Inc. The
Mitchell firms were founded in 1941 and, at
the outset, were involved in the marketing
and distribution of asphalt, tar and emul-
sion. The firm eventually moved into other
areas of road building and today has ex-
panded its services and capabilities to in-
clude all phases of marketing asphalt ce-
ment and the marketing and application of
emulsions and other asphalt products. Bar-
ton Mitchell, the son of the founder, began
full time employment with The Group in
1962. In 1968 he became president. He is

Bicentennial Commission, is

a delightful trip

publishers’ price of $20).

currently serving his sixth year as secretary
of the National Asphalt Pavement Associa-
tion. He also served two years as president
of the Maryland Asphalt Association and
since 1968 has been a director of the Mary-
land Highways Contractors Association. Since
1971 he has been a member of the Gover-
nor’s Air Quality Control Advisory Council.
Mitchell was recently nominated by the Na-
tional Asphalt Pavement Association to
serve as a member of the Construction Ad-
visory Council to the Federal Energy Ad-
ministration.

ROBERT CONRAD KETCHAM (see Class note

1959).
1963

E. A. (ANDY) LEONARD left active military
service in September, 1975 but retains his
commission as Major, Military Intelligence,
U.S. Army Reserve. He is joining Xomox
Corporation as a sales administrator and will
train for international sales and manage-
ment. He is cultivating another interest as
well — tree farming. He owns and operates
a farm located 4 miles south of Lexington
where he is growing 36,000 pine trees. In
recognition of his green thumb, he recently
received a tree farm award from the Virginia
Division of Forestry and Virginia Forests
Inc., in cooperation with the American

Forest Institute.
1964

Dr. BRUCE CHOSNEY is in his second year
of a hemotology fellowship at the Simpson
Memorial Institute at the University cf
Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor. He and
his wife have a daughter and a son.

Dr. B. R. MAcDONALD is currently chief
resident in urology at the Medical College
of Virginia in Richmond. He had previously
been a medical missionary in Guatemala,
and for two years served as senior medical
officer for the U. S. Navy on Operation Deep
Freeze at McMurdo Station in Antarctica.

1965

WALTER H. BENNETT JR. has become a mem-
ber of the Charlotte, N. C. law firm of
Casey, Daly and Bennett, P.A.

Dr. BLAINE A. BROWNELL JR. has been nam-
ed director of urban affairs for University
College at the University of Alabama in
Birmingham, Ala. While maintaining his
current position as associate professor and
chairman of the newly established Depart-
ment of Urban Studies, Brownell will be
responsible for overall coordination of the

 

A Pictorial, History
PW SO cM C0) 0R) OM ft

urban studies academic program and the
applied research activities of the Center for
Urban Affairs. Brownell is the author of
several books, articles and essays on urban
studies. He holds an M.A. and Ph.D. de-
gree from the University of North Carolina
and is a former research fellow of Johns
Hopkins University. Brownell is also a mem-
ber of the Birmingham Planning Commis-
sion and the Jefferson County Planning and
Zoning Commission.

Hat S. Cuase III, formerly with Simpson
College, has recently taken a position with
the history department, University of Mary-
land, College Park. His family lives in
Takoma Park, Md.

H. BEN Jones Jr. has entered the private
practice of law as a partner in a Warren-
ton, Va. law firm. He was formerly the
senior assistant city attorney for Roanoke,
Va.

RosBert I. HANKEY currently serves as di-
rector of administration of The Mitchell
Group of Baltimore, an asphalt and con-
struction firm.

RANDALL P. JONEs and partner, John Yost
‘65, own and operate a chain of ten restaur-
ants, Hamburgers By Gourmet. They are
presently working on a national franchise.

1966

MARRIED: M. NeEeELy Youne II and Myra
Knowles were married recently. Neely re-
ceived his doctorate degree and is now
teaching at Pace Academy in Atlanta.

MARRIED: Robert B. Prippy and Barbara
Avent Thompson were married -Aug. 2, 1975
in Raleigh, N. C. Priddy, formerly with St.
Christopher’s School in Richmond, Va., has
recently been named director of development
at Nichols School in Buffalo, N. Y.

WILLIAM D. McCoLuiumM, former account exe-
cutive with E, F. Hutton & Co., recently
completed his master’s degree in counseling
at Trinity University, San Antonio, Texas.
He is now employed as a family and child
therapist at the Pastoral Care and Coun-
seling Center in Abilene, Texas.

1967

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN HENRY ZINK III,
a daughter, Anne Beaufort, on June 3, 1975.
Zink is a practicing attorney in Baltimore,
Md.

Dr. FREDERIC P. SKINNER has completed his

29

 

 

and Politics. rom V.P.L, is now wo | r 5 a du J Po an light a lant for

MARRIED: JAMES FAULKNER SPA

C,. Zarrau is a
1 University, C

 

 

%

During Homecoming halftime cere-
monies, William T. W. Brotherton, "75,
was presented a $1,000 postgraduate schol-

arship awarded by the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association for outstand-
ing athletic performance and academic
achievement. Brotherton, an All-Ameri-
ca swimmer at W&L, is congratulated by

University President Robert E. R.

Huntley. In the background are Broth-
erton’s parents, Mr. and Mrs. William T. W.
Brotherton Jr. of Charleston, W. Va. The
senior Brotherton, '47A, ’50L, is presi-

dent of the West Virginia State Senate.

Will conduct an attitudinal survey of German
newsmen to determine their agreement and
disagreement with American newsmen re-
garding tenents of the social responsibility
of the press.

JOHN R. Kesstinc has rejoined the news
staff of WFIR radio, the CBS network affili-
ate in Roanoke, Va., and is employed as a
broadcast news reporter. He left WLVA
radio in Lynchburg, where he was news di-
rector, to join WFIR. He had worked at the
Roanoke station prior to going to Lynchburg
a year and a half ago. Kessling is also a
member of the house corporation for the
Pi Kappa Phi fraternity chapter at W&L.

1974

MARRIED: Tuomas K. ANGELILLO to Rose-
mary Ricketti on June 21 in Cherry Hill,
N.J. Among the wedding party and guests
were David Piner °74, Charles Holbrook
‘72, Doug Thomas ’74, Bill Melton ’74, and
Skip Uhl ’75. Angelillo is enrolled in the
School of Law at W&L.

KEVIN K. MAcDouGALL has completed his
M.A. at the American Graduate School of
International Management, Glendale, Ariz.

‘THOMAS MATTEsky has resigned a_ position
with the Carlisle, Pa: Sentinel to become
news reporter for the television station,
WDBJ, in Roanoke, Va.

GEOFFREY N. NOLAN received his M.A. from
the Northwestern University Graduate School
of Management, Evanston, IIl., in June. He
is now working for the First National City
Bank in New York City.

WILLIAM L. WARBURTON has travelled in
southeast Asia and Australia since gradua-
tion. He is currently employed by Core
Laboratories International Ltd. which is a
petroleum reservoir engineering firm in
Indonesia. He is a well logger (hydrocarbon
detection) on an oil rig in the Java Sea.

The second annual Smith Mountain Lake
Symposium On Skiing and Sailing was held
the week of August 10-18. In attendance
were JOHN LANE ’74, JACK WALLACE ‘74,
JoHN WEIGLE "74, BRUCE GoRDIN 774, LAN-
DON LANE ’72, and Eric WHiTE °’74. The
highlight of the symposium came on the last
day when the high-spirited crew inadver-
tently wandered into a sailboat race. The
naval Generals, led by Skipper Weigle, came
quite close to winning. In a last-ditch effort,
the skipper ordered deckmates Gordin J.
Lane, and White overboard in an attempt

to gain more speed. A rousing chorus of the
Swing could be heard as the Generals pad-
dled fiercely across the finish line. The other
boaters were so impressed with the Gen-
erals’ enthusiasm and seamanship that the
crew was invited ashore to the _ post-race
party where the entire gathering raised an
official toast to W&L. At week’s end, all re-
turned to their respective responsibilities:
John Weigle is a representative for Swan
Engineering and Machine Company in
Bettendorf, Ia.; Bruce Gordin is about to
enter his second year of law school at Cleve-
land State where he is on the Dean’s List;
Jack Wallace, after completing a year of
Rotary scholarship study in Germany, is
about to begin work on his masters degree
at UNC while teaching at that university;
John Lane, after studying in Bristol, Eng-
land this summer, is entering his second
year at TIT. C. Williams School of Law in
Richmond; Landon Lane is currently em-
ployed as an officer in the Lane Company
of Altavista, Va.; Eric White is a law clerk
working in the firm of White & Marks in
Norfolk.

MARRIED: KiM STENSON to Kathy Mae
Coffey on September 27 in Lexington.

PETER G. ERTMAN has received a career ap-
pointment to the Conservation Division of
the U.S. Geological Survey in Washing-
eC.

MICHAEL JARBOE is a management traince

at the Stanford Court Hotel on Nob Hill in
San Francisco.

SAAS AOE 127 PS LETTS LE I

 

In Memoriam
aie
Lien

191]

WILLIAM PAxTON died Mar. 11, 1975 at the
Skyline Terrace Nursing Home in Wood-
stock, Va.

Poa 2

Dr. JosepH Minor Hottoway, who practiced
medicine in Fredericksburg and Caroline
County, Va., for more than half a century,
died Sept. 23, 1975. Dr. Holloway started his
career in 1914 as a general practitioner. He
worked in Fredericksburg as an ear, nose,
and throat specialist until his retirement
in 1969. Dr. Holloway served with the U-S.
Army in World War I in France.

 

1913

Dr. GEorGE WeEsT DIEHL, minister, genealo-
gist and author, died Aug. 14, 1975 in Lex-
ington, Va. Dr. Diehl, who had spent many
of his adult years in Rockbridge County,
had been exceedingly active in the religious

and educational life of the community.
Upon graduation from Washington and Lee
in 1913, he attended Union Theological
Seminary in Richmond and was awarded
a masters degree from the University of
Richmond. Dr. Diehl also did graduate
work at Union Theological Seminary in
New York and at Columbia University. From
1917 to 1920 he was engaged in mountain
missionary work and for several years was
director of education, social and religious
activities for a large coal company in Mc-
Dowell County, W. Va. Dr. Diehl is a former
president of Concord State College at
Athens, W. Va. and of Morris Harvey Col-
lege at Huntington, W. Va. In 1964, Con-
cord College awarded him an honorary doc-
tor of laws degree. During World War T,
Dr. Diehl served as a chapiain in the 105th
Infantry Division.. In 1932 Dr. Diehl ac-
cepted a call to become a pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Corpus Christi,
Texas. He continued to serve for 17 years. In
1949 he came to Rockbridge County, Va. to
become pastor of the Oxford Presbyterian
Church. Dr. Diehl purchased the farm which
was owned by his wife’s family and which
the new owners named “Dundee Plantation.”
He continued to live there during the re-
mainder of his life. During the period of
his Oxford pastorate he engaged in many
important community activities. He served
on the Rockbridge County School Board,
and the Joint Committee for Lexington
High School, was chairman of the Board of
the Botetourt-Rockbridge Regional Library
and president of the Rockbridge Historical
Society. Much of Dr. Diechl’s interest, after
his return to Rockbridge, centered around
his research and writings on genealogy and
local history. He was well known for his
column, carried in the Lexington News Gaz-
ette, the “Rockbridge Notebook.” He wrote
and published a number of books concern-
ing local and church history.

1914

STEPHEN F, CHADWICK, a distinguished lawyer
and a senior partner of the firm Chadwick,
Chadwick & Mills of Seattle, Washington,
diced Aug. 28, 1975. Chadwick © serv-
ed in World War I with the American Ex-
pedition forces in Siberia and was National
Commander of the American Legion in 1938.

3]

Prio or | to “his work “with the woe LC
| Council he had been

HEARTSILL RAGON Jr, a f
Vashi pee eee Lee oa a pro n

 

 

 

WkL IS THE PLACE TO MIX IN 76!
RESERVE THE DATES
MAY 7 and 8, 1976

Spring
Class Reunions

 

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of

1926 1936 195] 196] 1966
and the

Old Guard
AN ADDED ATTRACTION:

Washington and Lee’s Famous Mock Convention
Will Be in Session

A BICENTENNIAL EVENT

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

ox

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
BO

 

 

 

 

