 

JULY 1980

ty

Iversl

ington and lee uni

fwash

i magazine o

the alumn

 

 

ae
.
Ree

i

th
ene

as a fs

ae
is

 

 

 

Sangh

The University Library

 

THE LIBRARY DEDICATION

Washington and Lee’s new $9-million undergraduate
library—called The University Library—was formally dedi-
cated in a series of events on Friday and Saturday, May 23-
24.

The two-day dedication celebration coincided with the
annual spring meeting on campus of the University Board of
Trustees, and the trustees were hosts at most of the events,
including a reception in the library for the public on Friday
evening.

The program began with a talk on the role of the modern
library in the liberal arts curriculum on Friday morning by
Warren J. Haas, president of the Council on Library Re-
sources Inc. He spoke in the Mary Moody Northen Audi-
torium in the new library.

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr., a University trustee, former
president of University of Virginia, Commonwealth professor
of English at U.Va., and now president of the federated
chapters of Phi Beta Kappa, made the principal remarks at
the actual dedication on Saturday morning. The ceremony
took place on Stemmons Plaza, the newly landscaped walk-
way at the main entrance of the library. His talk was followed
by lunch on the plaza for all in attendance.

 

Earlier on Saturday, the library faculty and staff were
hosts at open-house tours for all guests.

A storied, larger-than-life portrait of George Washington
was presented to the University on the occasion of the
dedication. The important 18th-century painting, executed
in Gilbert Stuart's “Lansdowne’ style, is the gift of the David
Warner Foundation of Tuscaloosa, Ala. The chairman of the
board of the foundation is Jack W. Warner, 40, a Washington
and Lee trustee, who with his wife, Elizabeth, is a generous
benefactor of the University.

The presentation of the portrait took place at a dedication
banquet on Friday evening for special guests. University
trustees were hosts. The painting hangs in the main lobby of
the library.

W&L moved into the new library 16 months ago. The
library has 130,000 square feet of space—four times the area
of the University’s old library, McCormick.

The library has shelf space for half a million volumes.
Currently, W&L’s undergraduate library collection numbers
about 400,000 volumes, although some of those holdings are
located in departmental libraries in the natural sciences and
in journalism.

>

The dedication ceremony on Stemmons Plaza in front of the library

The new building has study and reading space for 800
users at a time, mostly in the form of carrels—individual
desk-and-bookshelf cubicles which students may reserve for
an academic term or longer. Most of the 560 carrels are
located in the midst of the four stack levels of books, so
students working on particular projects can carry out their
research and writing in the area where the books they need
are shelved.

The library also has 31 private studies or offices for
upperclass students who are working on honors theses and
for faculty.

On the main level of the new building are areas for both
public and technical services, including the 10,000-volume
reference room, a 3-million-card capacity catalogue, and a
1,500-issue capacity periodicals area with seating for 60.
W&L currently subscribes to about 1,200 periodicals.

On the first lower level are bookstacks for past issues of
periodicals; the Northen Auditorium, named for Mrs. Mary
Moody Northen of Galveston, Tex., a generous benefactor of
W&L and the library building program; and abundant stor-
age space for rare books and other special collections, adjoin-
ing a clublike Rare Book Reading Room.

The library has typing, seminar and conference rooms
and several lounges in the bookstack areas for smokers and
for non-smokers.

The library has the capacity to accept every technological
innovation yet known or anticipated, and every carrel could
be “hot-wired” for electronic information-retrieval if W&L
should wish and be able to afford to do so.

Already there are three remote computer terminals link-
ed to W&L’s master computer in nearby Tucker Hall.

2

 

 

There is also computer service for the library staff, linking
W&L with regional and national interlibrary information-
sharing networks.

Construction on the new library was begun in mid-1976.
The architects were Marcellus Wright, Cox & Smith of
Richmond, the firm that also designed Lewis Hall, W&L’s
four-year-old law building. Bass Construction Co. Inc., also
of Richmond, was the general contractor.

Although it is a five-story structure, the library was built
down into Wood's Creek Valley, and the roofline is only as
high as the first floor of Washington Hall. The site, the scale,
exterior design, and building materials—red brick with white
concrete vertical accents—complement the neo-Classical
architecture of the historic Colonnade buildings behind
which the library is situated.

In a remark in a booklet the University published to mark
the library dedication, E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., rector of the
W&L board, describes the library as “functionally efficient
[and] architecturally distinguished,’and says it has already
become the “intellectual second home” of W&L’s professors
and student body.

W&Ls library resources and services are fully available
to students and teachers from other colleges and to residents
of the area.

The old McCormick Library building, constructed in
1908 and remodeled and enlarged to its limit in 1941, is now
being renovated and remodeled once again to become the
home of W&L’s School of Commerce, Economics and Poli-
tics. That $3.25-million project will be completed this sum-
mer, and the new commerce home will be ready for classes
in September.

‘through thick and thin to this happy occasion’

 

Maurice D. Leach

Librarian

Welcome and an Introduction

 

It is a pleasure to share with you today and tomorrow our
joy and satisfaction in this beautiful and efficient building.
Thirteen years ago this summer initial planning for the
building began, with the President of the University and the
faculty and student library committees. Soon afterwards, the
Board of Trustees approved the concepts, and the act of
writing a building program involving all parts of the Univer-
sity community began. From these combined wisdoms our
present building has emerged.

We are grateful to the Board of Trustees for their total
support of our objectives—without stint. A confidence in,
and reward for, the library's faculty and staff has sustained us
through thick and thin to this happy occasion. To each, we
say thank you.

Today also marks the beginning of the fourth and final
series of events honoring this facility. Two were held in
relationship to our fellow librarians, and the third was a
conference of 80 deans, professors, and librarians from 15
privately supported colleges in Virginia, exploring the ques-
tion of library resources for the college scholar. Within these
next two days, we will be privileged to hear from two talented
academic leaders and scholars.

Our speaker today is Warren J. Haas, who is the president
of the Council on Library Resources, and the successor to
Dr. Fred C. Cole, W&L’s own distinguished former presi-
dent.

Jim is a graduate of Wabash College with a degree in
history, and he holds a Bachelor of Library Science degree
from the University of Wisconsin—a degree which only a
few of us were privileged to earn. His professional career has
been primarily in academic libraries, notably at Columbia
University from 1960 to 1978, except for three years when he
was the University of Pennsylvania's librarian.

At the time he went to the Council on Library Resources
he was Columbia University librarian and vice president for
Information Services. Prior to that he served as president of
the American Research Libraries, that elect group of aca-
demic research libraries. He helped the Ford Foundation
establish the Council on Library Resources in 1956, and
later at a crucial time in the history of the Library of Congress
he served on a task force of librarians to guide it in its study of
goals and organization.

The impact of the Council on Library Resources upon

 

 

Maurice D. Leach

the development of library technology and research in the
United States and abroad is immeasureable. One of the
beneficiaries has been this library. Secondly, in its encour-
agement of librarians in mid-career, through fellowships and
management advancement programs, it has advanced the
cause of the profession, and we have had the good fortune of
a former member of this faculty, Barbara Brown, being
among the first participants. And finally, in its support of
international library programs, the United States has pro-
vided leadership that has been used throughout the world.
The Council has earned a star in the heavens that would be
next to Andrew Carnegie among librarians.

Jim is on record as saying, “I'm interested in the process
of putting information to work . . . and in how libraries can
help. Too little thought, for example, has been given to how
scholars communicate with the public at large and how
society benefits from their activities.” I anticipate his remarks
on the role of the modern library in the liberal arts curriculum
and its pursuit of excellence.

3

 

‘libraries are well into a period of transformation

 

Warren J. Haas

Role of the Liberal Arts

 

I have been asked to reflect informally and briefly, not
about the building, but about what is likely to go on within it
during the years ahead. Specifically, my assigned topic is the
role of the modern library in the liberal arts curriculum. I
suspect we will also have some observations about the re-
sponsibilities that those concerned with the liberal arts have
in helping to shape the modern library.

In one sense the liberal arts curriculum, the liberal arts
themselves,represents the most personal kind of education,
and everyone in this room probably has his or her own
personal definition of the term. That gives me the right to
use my own which is uncomplicated and brief. For me a
liberal arts education is one that stimulates the development
of three quite different skills. The first is the skill of com-
munication in both expression and comprehension. I am
talking about here languages and mathematics among other
things. Second is the skill of self-instruction, that is, as-
sembling and assessing and organizing and synthesizing in-
formation pertinent to the matter at hand and using both
imagination and intelligence to draw a conclusion from the
facts. And finally I guess I would list the skill of appreciation.
That is understanding the work and the thought and the
influence of other individuals as individuals throughout his-
tory.

Any library, whether it is a modern one or not, should
contribute in some way to the development of these skills.
As we all know libraries are well into a period of almost
unprecedented transformation. From the point of view of
liberal arts colleges, the end product of this transformation
should represent improvement when measured against these
objectives. If this isn’t the case the transformation will and
should be judged a failure.

Now what is the nature of this transformation? What is
meant by the term a modern library? There are many ardent
technologists who would describe that library as a computer
terminal linked to an infinite number of data bases. The May
5th Fortune magazine describes this utopia in an article
entitled “Everything You Always Wanted to Know May
Soon Be On-Line.” I will read you just a few sections of that:
“A new industry is growing up around on-line data bases—
huge banks of information that are processed, stored and
delivered electronically. What the new businesses provide
is not so much additional information (most of it has been

4

 

lying around in printed form for a long time) but a radical
improvement in the ease with which information can be
retrieved, a promise that the curious can find what they need
to know in just a matter of seconds. In a sense, on-line
information banks have taken up where Melvil Dewey left
off. However great the contribution of his decimal system,
he never figured out how to get rid of the leg work, the
digging in the stacks, or that researchers nightmare, the key
source that is out of date, misplaced or on loan. The new on-
line libraries have just about solved those problems. They
can drop what you want literally in your lap. Though each of
the data banks is limited in scope and usually designed for a
specific market the number is proliferating at a dazzling
pace. A consulting firm in the field estimates that some 450
of these data banks are now available on-line. In the last
three months of 1979 alone 50 data bases were offered in the
United States for the first time.”

There is a list of the kinds of services and data bases, and I
will just read a few to give you some sense of it: “Data on the
Japanese economy including a macro-economic model and
forecast; geological and production data for every gas and oil
well or reservoir in the United States, Canada and on the
outer continental shelf; citations and abstracts and new pro-
ducts technology markets, etc., for over 2,000 U.S. and
foreign publications; complete unabridged articles from the
Wall Street Journal, Barron's, Dow Jones, news services,
price quotations, etc.; the full text of state and federal court
decisions, statutes, regulations and so on.

Those are the data bases that are suddenly becoming
very, very visible and I would add parenthetically probably
profitable.

This is enough, I think, to give you some sense of one view
of the future. There isn’t time to touch on the many unre-
solved questions that are a part of this secenario, for example,
copyright issues, the growing trend to assess payment each
time information is used. Now you pay a royalty when you
buy a book. But there is a growing trend to assess a charge
each time information is used. Another area that we don't
have time to touch on are the areas of conflict between the
entrepreneurs of the information industry and the world of
teaching and learning. Another one we dont have time to
touch on is the development of new constraints nationally
and internationally on the free flow of information.

If the author would change his title from “Everything
You Always Wanted to Know’ to “Many Things You Wanted
to Know,” I would go along with the message. The fact is that
computer and communications technology will affect users
in libraries in fundamental ways. For our purposes this
morning we will talk about and only briefly about two of
them.

 

Warren J. Haas

First of all is the bibliographic structure on which libraries
rest their case really. Historically a library’s bibliographic
structure began and ended with a card catalogue. People
would come in, look up something, if they found it, they
would go get it with luck. Ifit wasn’t there, nine times out of
10, they would sort of pass and go on to something else. But
computerized bibliographic systems, such as the OCLC
system, which this library makes use of and the research
libraries information network, systems such as these are
transforming library operations. More important they are
transforming the entire process of identifying and locating
recorded information. Some day soon the card catalogue
which represents the holdings of this library or a specific
library will be replaced by bibliographic data bases which
will identify all recorded information, wherever it is, on
designated subjects and along stipulated perimeters. And
second they will locate that information and indicate the
means for access to it.

Second is the fact of an increasing amount of computerized
storage processing and transmission of information. This is
perhaps the real essence of the present library revolution.
The new computer and communications capabilities will
transform and add greatly to the substance of library re-
sources and services and will make much more intimate the
relationships among libraries and between libraries and the
many other enterprises to which libraries are related.

Here I am talking about book and journal publishing, the
abstracting and indexing services, and the actual sources of
information themselves. Much useful information will be
available even though it will never appear in print. Other
information will be stored in digital form, and it will be

 

printed only when it is needed.

Both of these changes will affect liberal education. Ex-
panded knowledge about the existence of information will
open new opportunities for both teaching and learning.
Knowledge of the existence of information which is the
purpose of bibliographic systems stimulates demand for that
information. This demand will in turn focus attention on
improving access to the items themselves. In some ways
technology is helping to increase the capabilities of the col-
legiate library and to put its users on the same footing as those
who have daily access to the largest research collections.

The second effect for liberal education is this: larger and
larger quantities of certain kinds of information will be avail-
able, at a price. By certain kinds of information, I’m referring
to what I have begun to see as, what I call, anonymous
information—the author has been lost sight of. We are talking
about economic data, demographic information, scientific
data, documentary material, news reports, full newspapers,
patents, information about chemical and biological sub-
stances, and a host of similar categories—information that
can be abstracted, reorganized, analyzed, compared, and
aggregated.

Another example: yesterday's mail brought me a publica-
tion describing a new service, a new alternative, an interac-
tive domestic information system. The print is large so I will
read it quickly.

“Combining the power of modern information processing
and display techniques for the comprehensive data bank of
domestic statistics, the Bureau of the Census and NASA
have demonstrated at the White House and the Capitol a
domestic information system which permits immediate
search and analysis of data by interaction between decision
makers in the system. The combination of data requested is
instantaneously displayed not in tables but in shades of color
on a map of the area of interest. Then there is a big, pretty
jazzy map there, average unemployment in the first quarter
of 1978. The system produces the map and gives you the
color chart, giving you the substance of the message. The
system permits decision makers to zero in on the answers
they need based on the results of previous data requested in
analysis. The time to pull data together rather than being a
major problem now becomes insignificant. Analysis of com-
binations of data is now automatic rather than manual. The
whole decision making process doesn't have to be laid out in
advance of lengthy computer runs. The results of data re-
quests and analysis can be used as the guide for further
inquiries. And it goes on and describes how the system uses
information in an incredibly large number of subjects and
displays it graphically in living color. For example: in a map
here a median family income, for instance, green would

3D

 

indicate the highest income while orange indicates the lowest
income. This is up and running.

Let’s turn back to the skills we attached to our definition
of the liberal arts. It is clear that these new library capabilities
are important. A new set of skills is required to put computer-
stored information to effective use, and the acquisition of
those skills is now an essential part of a liberal education.

The forthcoming report of the Rockefeller Foundation’s
Commission on the Humanities notes that “writing, printing,
and computing all represent technological revolutions in
disseminating information,” that “all have had profound im-
plications for social change” and that, “if intelligently used,
the last (that is, computing) may be as beneficial to the
humanities as the other two.” The report goes on to say that
“for libraries, new technologies provide indispensable means
for preserving and storing materials and for increasing access
to them. The new technologies take us beyond quantities of
information to some of the processes of human intelligence.”

No liberal arts college can ignore these facts, and it
seems, as a consequence of them, that libraries will, more
than ever, have to be an integral part of the educational
process rather than an appendage to it.

There is one other point I would make here—one con-
cerning the relationship between the skills of self-instruction
and computer-processed information. Information stored in
computers can be easily modified, added to, subtracted from
and distorted. Too little attention is being paid to the matter
of quality control where computer stored information is
concerned. Simply because it’s there and can be read on a
cathode-ray tube and manipulated in the processing unit,
computer stored information has an aura of respectability
about it that even exceeds that of the printed word. It seems
essential that every educated person know something about
the flow of knowledge and information in each discipline.
Without this understanding, any judgment of the validity of
information is difficult. We are being inundated with infor-
mation of all kinds, and it is essential that the critical sense of
students be finely honed as they are being educated.

If the presence of the new technologies is one distinctive
aspect of what we are calling the modern library, another is a
change in perception of collecting objectives. Academic li-
braries—whether essentially collegiate libraries or compre-
hensive research collections—have an almost pavlovian
compulsion for infinite growth traceable to the salivation of
librarians and faculty alike at the sound of the bookseller’s
bell. I would hastenly add that this passion for books is a
virtue and not a vice.

But the fact is that the concept of self-sufficiency in
libraries has gone the way of self-sufficiency in almost every
other aspect of life. The sheer volume of publishing, rising

6

 

costs, of books and journals, the physical deterioration of
books published not long ago, growing storage costs, and
many other factors dictate the need for fundamental change
in the collection control policies that govern acquisition,
retention, preservation, and even the methods of storage of
library materials in both print and non-print form.

The skills of librarians and faculty members are well
tested in the process of building and maintaining a collection
of books. Computer data bases will replace published ac-
cumulations of information, and if all goes well, the results
may be better and even economically sound. But one of the
main reasons to store data in a computer is that information
so stored can be manipulated, processed, and changed.

It is essential that works of creation, of reflection, of
observation and of analysis by real, identifiable people not
be jeopardized by dumping them into computers and thus
paving the way for subsequent consolidation, abstracting,
informed and uninformed revision. Two of the greatest
hazards of our time are, first, the homogenization and thus
over simplification of ideas, and second, the separation of
ideas and their authors.

Curiously, this very thing is happening in computing.
Much remarkably imaginative and even aesthetically hand-
some computer software created by brilliant individuals is
already lost because of an infinite number of additions,
refinements, and modifications by subsequent and usually
anonymous technologists. Perhaps the development of com-
puter software is destined to be a collective enterprise by the
very nature of the beast—but this simply reinforces the
place of books, with all their perceived shortcomings as a
format that, by its nature, controls tampering with the in-
tellectual work of real people.

The third liberal arts objective—the skill of appreciation
of the work of individuals—comes into play here. Which
books should be at hand, to be picked up and read as they
are? I'm not talking about books, per se, but about books for
what they say. I believe that books should come and go in a
collegiate collection. It’s too easy for a collection to become
an accumulation. Here, the liberal arts curriculum should
determine the content of the collection. Again, librarians
must work as colleagues of the faculty to assure that the
collections reflect present needs. The underlying nature of a
liberal arts education must be kept at the forefront—those
objectives we listed must control technology rather than be
distorted by it.

To turn back to one of the truisms of effective architec-
ture—form must follow function. Like the building itself,
the form of library service must be constantly assessed against
the purposes it is meant to serve. This is as true for the
modern library as it is for the old one.

‘we are immensely proud of this new library’

 

John Newton Thomas
Rector Emeritus

The Invocation

 

Gracious God, our Heavenly Father, we are met here
today in a spirit of gratitude. We are especially grateful on
this occasion for Thy gift of human language as an instrument
of thought and as a unique mode of its expression. We thank
Thee, too, that Thou has enabled man through the centuries
to record his thought in language whether on the wall of his
cave, on parchment, on the printed page, or on video tape or
discs. And thanks to the great literary heritage due to that
recording, we lift up profound grateful hearts for this mag-
nificent facility, a facility built to house and preserve the fruit
of the human mind as it is deposited in recorded language.
We thank Thee for its new techniques to make available
easily to scholars our literary treasures and to make them
inviting to students. We thank Thee, our Heavenly Father,
for those who dreamed of this library, for those who dared to
undertake its construction, and again with gratitude for those
whose understanding and generosity is now making it poss-
ible. May those who through the years seek knowledge
within these walls be led likewise into truth, and by truth to
acknowledge Thee as its ultimate donor and to lead them
into the service of their fellowmen as brothers. We now
envoke Thy guidance of us in this hour and Thy benediction
upon us in the name of Jesus Christ, our Lord. Amen.

 

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.

Rector

Gratitude and Achievement

 

Dr. Thomas mentioned in his invocation those who dared
to go forward with this building, and I would like to point out
that it was under his leadership that this was done. He was
rector of the board at that time.

This is the fourth dedication ceremony in which I have
been privileged to participate as your rector. The first, in
October 1975, was the very pleasant occasion when we
renamed the science building Parmly Hall in memory of
Charles Howard Parmly. Then, in 1977, we dedicated the
Warner Athletic Center, vastly improving our facilities for
sports, recreation, and physical fitness. Three years ago, in
May, we dedicated our new law school building, Lewis Hall,

 

Bi

       

Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. at the podium; Rector emeritus John
Newton Thomas is at the left.

 

 

which gave us law teaching facilities which without any
question are second to none.

The generous benefactors for whom those buildings were
named are with us today, Ruth Parmly, Jack Warner, Frances
and Sydney Lewis. And on behalf of the entire University
family I would like to express to you again our eternal
gratitude for your generosity. Without gifts such as these it
would not be possible for Washington and Lee to maintain
the position of preeminence that it now enjoys.

Today we are dedicating the latest addition to our land-
mark campus, this new undergraduate library. Iam sure you
will all agree that it has to be one of the finest, if not the
finest, libraries of its type in the country. I speak for our
entire Board of Trustees, a group of very dedicated, loyal
lovers of Washington and Lee, when I say we are immensely
proud of this new library and of the accomplishments that it
represents.

We are equally proud to have been a part of the very
dynamic developments that have taken place at this Univer-
sity and on this campus in the past 10 years—a $62-million
development program that has made possible four dedica-
tions such as this in the short space of five years, and that is
quite an accomplishment. We are proud of the planning, the
dedication, and the very hard work that went into bringing
about these achievements. Above all, we are proud of the
many loyal, devoted and generous alumni and friends who

7

 

 

have made these possible. Without them we would not be
here today.

I would like to remind you that we are not finished. The
new home for the School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics is nearing completion and will be occupied next fall.
But please do not get the impression that our accomplish-
ments have been only in the realm of campus improvements.
At the same time that we have been making these im-
provements in our physical facilities our outstanding faculty
and administration have made very significant strides in

ect

.
*

  

Trustee Sydney Lewis (left) and Trustee Jack W. Warner, for whom
buildings at Washington and Lee have been named.

Miss Elizabeth Ham represented the long association between Washington
and Lee and the late Christopher T. Chenery.

8

 

 

improving the academic excellence of this University.
Washington and Lee is stronger today, both in the quality of
its teaching and the diversity of its curriculum, than ever
before in its 230-year history. And there is no question that it
ranks very high, very close to the top, in that small group of
selective, superior, private universities that remain in this
country today.

These are indeed great times for Washington and Lee,
and your trustees are extremely proud to have been a part of
them. Our job now is to keep it that way.

 

a =
SOF TPS A a

Miss Ruth Parmly, a special guest at the ceremony, was recognized
for generosity to Washington and Lee.

   

Mrs. Mary Moody Northen, for whom the library auditorium was named,
looks at dedication booklet with graduating senior Craig Cornett.

 

‘this is a day of fulfillment and of rededication’

 

President Huntley

Credits and a Bit of History

 

For Washington and Lee University, which among so
many other things is the embodiment of memories, hopes,
and dreams of everyone ever associated with the University,
this is a day of fulfillment and of rededication. More than any
other building that we have undertaken here in the past 11
years, this building that we dedicate today was built under
my immediate surveillance. My office is right there, and
everyday from the first ground-breaking I would check the
progress and wonder why this, that or the other was going on
and marvel at the skills of the workers.

This building in particular seemed a long time coming,
not the construction itself—which went quite smoothly—but
the planning and the fund raising began a long time ago,
about a decade. Perhaps it seemed such a long time because
this was an important building to the evolution of our entire
development program. We had to have the new library
before we could provide for the new Commerce School, and
we would need Newcomb Hall to accommodate the depart-
ments in the College in better fashion. In every sense the
library was the key.

A great deal of careful planning went into the building
under the direction of our librarian, Mr. Maurice Leach,
what we call preparing a program for the new facility, articu-
lating the ways in which we wanted the library to serve our
students and our professors. This program then became the
basis for architectual planning and so on until we had a
complete set of plans and specifications waiting for the at-
tainment of funds that would permit construction.

For a time it seemed we would not be able to keep pace
with the rising costs of construction. The building seemed to
be moving away from us, not closer. Then, in the spring of
1976, the love and dedication that so many attached to Wash-
ington and Lee was revealed in several large unrestricted
bequests and suddenly the project was within our reach. The
Board of Trustees, meeting in a special session in that year,
dedicated themselves with renewed vigor to the achieve-
ment of all our development goals and gave the go-ahead to
the library project, one of the many acts of faith in Washing-
ton and Lee’s history. And within weeks thereafter I was
embarked on my new career as a second-story superin-
tendent.

Today, as we look at all that has been achieved, I am filled
with a sense of gratitude to those who have made this build-

 

ing and this day possible for this school. The library and its
resources are available to every Washington and Lee student
and every faculty and staff member and to the community,
and I know I speak for the entire University family when I
voice the appreciation all of us feel for those who have given
so generously to make this a reality.

We have undertaken to mention in our dedication publi-
cations the names of all those whose support of Washington
and Lee was directed specifically to the achievement of this
building. I cannot mention them all now, but neither can I
fail to mention some of them, so special has been their
generosity and their interests. These are our benefactors
whose gifts and friendships are recognized by the naming of
special areas within the building.

We are privileged to have with us today several of these
good friends. Mrs. Mary Moody Northen of Galveston,
Texas, is well known to many in this audience and in this
community as one of the most generous and ardent support-
ers of our neighboring Virginia Military Institute, where her
beloved father was a cadet and a graduate. We here are
especially grateful for the kindness and generosity that she
has bestowed upon Washington and Lee, her uncle’s alma
mater, and we are proud to be among those who are her
friends.

Miss Elizabeth Ham is in our audience representing the
long heritage of association that has existed between Wash-
ington and Lee University and the late Christopher T.
Chenery, a member of the Class of 1909, and for many, many
years a distinguished member of this University’s Board of
Trustees. Miss Ham was Mr. Chenery’s executive secretary
and adviser, and when illness removed him from active
management of his business it was she who carried on for
him and it was she who played a major role in the develop-
ment of Mr. Chenery’s Riva Ridge and Secretariat as winners
of horse racing’s most coveted trophies.

Many of our trustees, both active and emeritus members
of the board, have directed their support to this building.
Among them are J. Alvin Philpott and James M. Ballengee,
both with us here today, as well as Stewart Buxton and John
Stemmons, the latter joined in his support by his wife, Ruth,
and his late brother, Storey Stemmons and his wife, Grace. I
am certain that you are aware that the generous support of all
our trustees is recognized elsewhere on this campus.

There are others that I want to mention: Miriam Caperton
Alexander McClure of New Orleans, whose extraordinary
bequest, perhaps more than any other item, assured that this
library would be built. Edgar Basse Jr., Ralph Cohen, Wil-
liam B. Wisdom, Lila A. Lilly, William C. Norman and his
son, Bill Jr., were generous donors. So were W. D. Bain Jr.,
Robert Glenn Craig, Joseph S. Keelty, Harry McCoy, Stuart

9

 

Dickson, Robert Mosbacher and Mr. and Mrs. Justin Dart,
in memory of James O Brien.

The Kresge Foundation, the Burlington Industries
Foundation and the Arthur Vining Davis Foundation were
important to us as were the A. H. Robins Company.

Other individuals recognized in the building were Lillian
H. Barclay, Lucille W. Chaffin, William Wells Chaffin, John
E. Cole, Charlotte R. Flint, Eben Jackson, Thomas Standifer
and Emmett Tardy.

The faculty and the staff of the University made contribu-
tions to the development program in such dimension that
this support became a major source of funds applied to this
building and this devotion is recognized there. The library
also drew the support ofa secret Washington and Lee society,
good friends of the University, recognized in the building.

And finally I cannot end this recitation of generosity and
friendship without mention of the McCormick family’s earlier
support on behalf of the older library which from 1940 until
1979 bore the McCormick name.

This is indeed a remarkable building in many ways. For
one thing its actual construction was completed ahead of
schedule and at a cost to the University substantially under
our contractural obligations. The financial advantage to
Washington and Lee was so great that perhaps we should
honor our principal building architects, both for that fact and
for the ingenuity of their design, Mr. Fred Cox and Mr. Ed
Smith, who are here with us today, and our principal land-
scape architect, Mr. Tom Borellis, who is here as well as the
excellent contractor, Mr. Robert Bass, who is among our
guests today. .

The move from McCormick to the new building was
remarkable, truly a community effort involving students,
faculty, and townspeople. And I am especially gratified to
see so many of those who participated in that move here
today, sharing another happy event. The library is distinctive
too in the way it is being used. The afternoon of the Great
Move, as we have come to call it, students were already
staking out study spaces, making it their own, creating, in
fact, the ideal which we tried to articulate in the planning.

So this is a day of rejoicing in what has been achieved. It
is a time for thanking those who have helped us, and it is a
time for confronting Washington and Lee’s future with new
assurance and new purpose. I am confident of this future.

I see in this audience others whose love for Washington
and Lee and dedication to its goals are strong: Mr. Ray Loper
of the James Graham Brown Foundation, Mr. Bruce King of
Continental Financial Services, our good friends. Mr.
Nuckols has already alluded to the fact of other dedications of
which one is reminded when he looks into the audience at
the Lewises, at Miss Parmly, at Jack Warner.

10

 

 

Now it is my privilege to introduce the principal speaker
on this occasion. We simply could not have made a better
choice. To begin with, Edgar Shannon grew up on this
campus. He went to college here and for the past six years he
has been a trustee of the University. Edgar is very much at
home at Washington and Lee. The dedication of a library is,
if nothing else, a scholarly event and our speaker is a scholar
of the first magnitude. His father was for many years the
head of Washington and Lee’s department of English. The
achievements of Edgar Shannon’s adult life suggest that the
elder Dr. Shannon had no more apt pupil than his own son,
whose early discoveries of the adventures of learning set him
upon a career of literary and academic distinction.

After graduation here in 1939 he received master’s de-
grees from Duke and Harvard and earned his Ph.D. degree
at Oxford, where he studied as a Rhodes Scholar upon
nomination by Washington and Lee.

An eminent authority on the life and work of Alfred Lord
Tennyson, Dr. Shannon joined the English faculty at the
University of Virginia in 1950, and in 1959 Mr. Jefferson’s
University paid its older but smaller neighbor beyond the
Blue Ridge the compliment of choosing this Washington and
Lee man to be president of all the Wahoos. For 15 years he
filled that responsibility with unusual distinction and integ-
rity, affirming and enlarging upon the University of Virginia's
perception as one of the most scholarly of all state univer-
sities. In 1974 he stepped aside from the administrative bur-
dens of the presidency and returned to the life of the mind
and literature as Virginia s Commonwealth Professor of Eng-
lish. He is currently the national president of Phi Beta
Kappa.

With pleasure and with personal pride I introduce this
distinguished member of Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees, Dr. Edgar Finley Shannon Jr.

 

President Huntley

 

‘generating light in the minds of students and faculty

 

Edgar F. Shannon Jr.

Power House of Liberal Learning

 

It is a great pleasure this morning to be able to participate
in the dedication of this superb new library. This is the time
when we ceremonially recognize the creation of a handsome
and functional structure and publicly designate it—conse-
crate it if you will—to a specific function in the life of the
University. The word “dedication” also has as its root deriva-
tion the Latin verb dicere, meaning “to say.” I am indeed
honored to be asked to say something on such a significant
occasion in the history of Washington and Lee.

My father was for many years chairman of the Library
Committee, and I grew up almost literally in the shadow of
the former Washington and Lee library, living from the age
of two until 20 in the Lee-Jackson house, not more than a few
steps from what was first Carnegie and then McCormick
Library. As a child, before the days of comic books, I used to
gorge myself on the Sunday funny papers in the periodical
room and thereby became acquainted with most of the lead-
ing newspapers in the eastern half of the United States! As a
boy, after I had exhausted our family shelves, I read exten-
sively during vacations from school, in English and American
fiction and drama, which I borrowed from the library. As an
undergraduate at W&L, I benefited from its holdings in
various fields of the curriculum, especially in philosophy,
history, and literature. By returning to Lexington in the
summer time, I was able to finish significant parts of my
M.A. and Ph.D. theses because of the reference materials in
the Washington and Lee library. And as an assistant professor
at another institution, I finished several scholarly articles in
the same way. My life, you might say, has been a long love
affair with this library.

I mention these circumstances not merely out of grati-
tude—and nostalgia—but to indicate how a library contri-
butes to individual development and how it functions for
college and community as a cultural resource, as a major
impetus for undergraduate learning, and ds an indispensable
tool for the research of teacher-scholars. If my personal
experience offers such gratifying testimony from the past,
how much greater now is the potential that this new building
and its collections offer! Let me seize this opportunity, then,
as trustee, alumnus, and beneficiary of this library, to express
on behalf of the Board and all the University family, deep
appreciation to the generous donors who have made possible
this fine building and many of its holdings.

 

 

oY

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon Jr.

This facility and the present flourishing state of the li-
brarys collections and capabilities are the result of the
dreams and efforts of many individuals over more than two
centuries. The history of the struggles of numerous far-
sighted individuals and of the vicissitudes that they sur-
mounted in order to bring us to this moment, you will read in
Mrs. Betty Kondayan’s excellent historical sketch. I need
not rehearse in detail what she has recorded so well, but it is
important to remind ourselves briefly of how far the library
of Washington and Lee has come from its meager beginnings
when, in 1776, the Rector, William Graham, journeyed to
Philadelphia and purchased for the sum of £160 “sundry
books and apparatus for the use of the Academy.” He selected
the first approximately 100 titles wisely, for according to
Mrs. Kondayan, writing on the library of Liberty Hall Aca-
demy in the Virginia Magazine of History and Biography,
“In his choice of books for the library we discover both
breadth of outlook and tolerance.” Graham’s purchase of
books, as commissioned by Hanover Presbytery of the Pres-
byterian Church, was recognition of the fundamental impor-
tance of a collection of books to an institution of higher

11

 

learning. Moreover, the impulse to political freedom, which
led the Scotch-Irish conductors of the fledgling Augusta
Academy to change its name in 1776 to Liberty Hall
Academy, paralleled their establishing a library as a founda-
tion for freedom of thought through liberal learning.

During the first half of the 19th century, as a result of
financial stringency and, in spite of the insistence of suc-
cessive librarians upon the need for books, the collection
grew only to about 2,000. Compared to 7,500 volumes at
Amherst and Dartmouth and the 8,000 which Jefferson had
purchased for the opening of the University of Virginia in
1826, Washington and Lee lagged sadly behind. And Hun-
ters raid during the Civil War scattered and vandalized
many of the books that up to that time had been gradually
assembled.

It is not surprising, therefore, that in 1866 we should find
General Lee, writing in his first annual report to the Board of
Trustees, “I need not enlarge upon the importance of a good
library to the advancement and prosperity of the college. A
useful literary institution cannot be maintained without it,
and the first step to acquirement is to provide a suitable
building for the preservation and convenient arrangement of
the books.” He went on to describe the necessary building
and the site for it, but the best he could do was to house the
library in the basement of the new chapel that he construct-
ed. Not until 1882 was his son, George Washington Park
Custis Lee, who succeeded his father as President, able to
erect the first library building, Newcomb Hall, constructed
for $20,000. The gift of Mrs. Josephine Louise Newcomb, it
was plain in appearance (without its present pediment and
white columns) and it lacked an adequate heating system.
(The stacks were so cold that they paid a man $25 to go in and
out of them one hour a day during the four winter months to
bring out and to reshelve books. Maybe before long, with
the cost of energy we'll have to reinstate that method.)

Incorporation of the libraries of the Washington and the
Graham-Lee literary-debating societies and some 4,000
volumes of the Franklin Society, Lexington’s intellectual
and literary association, along with gifts and bequests, and
some major purchases, brought the college library to about
20,000 by 1895. The Carnegie Library, completed in 1908,
through a gift from Andrew Carnegie, at that date housed
about 45,000 volumes, but before construction began Miss
Annie Jo White, renowned as the founder of the Fancy
Dress Ball and then the librarian, criticized the architect’s
plans as inadequate; and despite her protests, the library in
the early 20th century sometimes went several years with no
money from the general fund with which to buy books.

To the vision of Blanche Pritchard McCrum, who became
the University’s first professional librarian in 1918, we owe

12

 

the modern library of Washington and Lee. As Maurice
Leach never tires of saying, she it was who in a prescient
paper entitled, “The Potential Role of the Library of Wash-
ington and Lee University in the Educational and Literary
Development of the South,” in 1936, powerfully set forth
the requirements for “the creation of a library good enough
to be a genuine stimulus to the intellectual quality of the
educational process on the campus.” In her annual report to
the President for 1936-37, she even identified the site for a
new library building, writing that the “natural . . . [lie] of
the land on the hillside toward Wood’s Creek affords an ideal
opportunity to build light, airy stacks, in the cubicles of
which faculty and students will have ideal working condi-
tions —a dream that has now come true.

In 1940, under Foster Mohrhardt, who became Librarian
after Miss McCrum left for Wellesley, the library finally
reached 100,000 volumes, the minimum number for a good
college library; and the following year the physical facilities
were expanded with a $100,000 gift from the McCormick
family into McCormick Library—recognized at the time to
be only a temporizing measure, for the educational goals of
Washington and Lee could not be achieved without a larger
and better-selected collection of books and an entirely new
building to shelve them properly and to make them readily
available.

With the leadership of Presidents Fred Cole and Robert
Huntley and with renewed commitment to excellence from
the Board of Trustees, as evidenced in Phases I and II of the
Development Plan, the library rose from some 180,000
volumes to the current figure of approximately 400,000,
more than doubling in two decades through the stewardship
of Henry Coleman and especially Maurice Leach. For the
latter and his able associates remained the challenge and the
excitement of developing the final plans that have reached
the happy fruition we commemorate today. To Mr. Leach
and his staff, who organized and conducted the physical
transfer of thousands of books, to the skillful architects, Mr.
Eddie Smith and Mr. Fred Cox of Marcellus Wright and
Company, to the able contractors under Mr. Bob Bass of
Bass and Co., and to hundreds of members of the University
and the community of Lexington, who so expeditiously
carried out the move from McCormick, we are deeply grate-
ful.

As handsome and as commodious as this new facility is,
however, I do not have to remind you that this library is
more than a building and a lot of books. Like the institution
and the people it serves, the library is not a static but a
dynamic entity. We cannot assemble today, congratulate
ourselves on a new capital improvement to the campus, and
go away with the idea that the work of building the library is

 

done. In the words of Tennyson’s Ulysses, the library must
“follow knowledge . . . beyond the utmost bound of human
thought.” Having arrived at an exciting level of attainment,
we must still, in accordance with our motto, be mindful of
the future and of the continuing role of the library in fulfilling
our cherished commitment to excellence and to the liberal
arts.

President Huntley is perhaps the most eloquent spokes-
man for the liberal arts in our country today, and I wish
simply to add my emphatic concurrence with him that they
must be the chief component of a sound higher education.
“Liberal,” in this context not, of course, to be confounded
with political ideology, means liberating or freeing; and the
liberal arts are so called because studying them frees the
mind from ignorance, from prejudice, and from undisciplined
passion. They develop one’s potential for reason and judg-
ment. They minister to the inner spirit, and represent a
store of common knowledge among educated men and
women. They teach us to think and to express our thoughts
in speaking and in writing; in other words, to communicate
in symbolic language.

The program of the library is specifically conceived and
designated to fulfill this educational philosophy. To do so
means, as the librarian wrote in a recent report to the board

 

 

of Trustees, a “carefully selected collection of books,
pamphlets, periodicals, tapes, recordings, films, and com-
puterized information . . . and the services of a professional
staff, which, through its bibliographic guidance to the stu-
dents and the faculty, is integrated into the teaching and
research fiber of the institution. . . .” In addition the college
library should increase, he said, “personal enjoyment” and
encourage students to satisfy intellectual curiosity by ranging
broadly over previously unexplored “seas of thought.”

It is easy to see why a library of the highest quality is a
sine qua non for maintaining the academic excellence of
Washington and Lee. Certainly the library is the authorita-
tive source for much of the knowledge available to students
and faculty and for the information that must be transmitted
in the educational process. And, more and more, the library
has come to be regarded, so far as the kind of liberal arts
education that we seek to achieve at Washington and Lee is
concerned, as the University’s chief or usual place of busi-
ness. We generally tend to think of the classroom in such
terms, and we cannot dispense with the interchange between
faculty and students in classes. But that interchange does not
occur without an undergirding of knowledge provided by
the library; and fully challenging individual minds to grow
depends to a considerable extent upon the library’s sup-

 

 

planting the textbook and the classroom through under-
graduate research and directed independent study.

At aconference on American libraries as centers of schol-
arship, recently held at Dartmouth, John Sloan Dickey,
president emeritus of that institution, characterized the
Baker Library as the “heartland of Dartmouth’s enterprise of
higher learning’and validated his conception of its place in
scholarship and teaching both by the dictionary definition of
heartland—a “central and vital area” and the geopolitical
one as “an area having ‘strategic advantages for the mastery
of the world.’ ” My father, in an introduction to Blanche
McCrum’s An Estimate of Standards for a College Library
(1933) wrote of the college library as becoming a “treasure
house for exploration . . . the educational center of the in-
stitution.” Indeed the library is a treasure house for explora-
tion by young minds. It provides us with the wisdom of the
past, as Matthew Arnold said, “the best which has been
thought and said in the world.” Yet because of the so-called
explosion of knowledge in our time, the best that has been
thought and said in the world is constantly increasing; and
like the Red Queen in Alice in Wonderland, the library has
to keep running just to stay in place.

You will notice that all of the analogies I have mentioned
for a library involve the word “center” or “central”; that is, a
point around which a circle is described, or a place round
which things of like kind or persons with a common object
group themselves. Thus the library is at the center of the
circle of intellectual unity that Washington and Lee repre-
sents as an educational institution. The position of this new
library, in the center of the campus, reinforces this central
symbolism. Moreover, as many of you will recall, it is built
on the site of the old power house, a further metaphor that I
have adopted for our library. In these energy conscious
times, a power house seems an apt symbol, but instead of
being a source of hot water and current, radiating by pipe-
lines and cables throughout the campus, the library, as
intellectual power house, is generating heat, light, and elec-
tricity in the minds of students and faculty.

If then, the library is the power house for this institution
of liberal learning, and if the quality of education at Wash-
ington and Lee depends, as I think it does, upon the quality
of the library, we must assure that it continues to produce
energy at maximum capacity. With the development of new
technologies and with escalating costs, libraries, like the rest
of us, face rapid change and many uncertainties about the
future. Only a few years ago, I well remember, academic
budget-makers used $10 as a rule of thumb for the cost of
purchasing and cataloging a book. The figure is more than
double that now, and the question arises as to whether the
computer will or should supplant the book, just as the book

14

 

did the manuscript with the invention of the printing press.
Without attempting to settle that debate, I think it is fair to
say that though the computer is already speeding up the
process of retrieving stored knowledge, there is no prospect
of dispensing with books any time soon. Many far-reaching
decisions will have to be made in the next few years, how-
ever, if the Washington and Lee Library is to remain in the
forefront of college libraries, and I am not so rash as to try to
anticipate them. Instead, I should like to offer several prin-
ciples for sustaining our library as the power house for an
undergraduate education in the liberal arts—the ideal to
which Washington and Lee is committed.

First, the primary purpose of the library must be to
support the undergraduate curriculum. The library does so
by authoritative and up-to-date reference and bibliographical
resources, so that users not only may have access to extensive
and accurate information but may know about material held
in other libraries besides this one. Presently the library staff,
faculty, and students are interacting effectively through de-
partmental courses in bibliographic resources and methods
taught jointly by librarians and members of the faculty in a
number of subject areas in the social sciences and humani-
ties. I trust that this instruction in how to make the most
complete use of the educational opportunities that the library
affords will expand to all departments and include increasing
numbers of students. Further, the library supports the cur-
riculum by regular annual purchases of selected books in the
subjects in which Washington and Lee offers instruction, so
as to provide the latest thinking in each field combined with
breadth or perspective and accuracy of scholarship. A wide
range of current periodicals is also necessary, if faculty and
students are to keep abreast in their areas of study. Active
and systematic participation in the process of selecting books,
periodicals, and other materials by library staff and faculty,
as well as by students engaged in research, is the only way to
guarantee that the library remains pertinent to the curric-
ulum. Washington and Lee justifiably prides itself on being a
teaching institution, and what we teach must be on the
leading edge of knowledge.

To be specific, Washington and Lee purchases between
5,000 and 6,000 books a year and catalogues approximately
10,000, as a result of gifts and deposits of government docu-
ments, for example. We subscribe to nearly 1,300 periodi-
cals. These figures are approximately what we must expect
for some time to come; and, of course, books wear out and
have to be rebound or replaced, and the holdings have to be
culled to keep the library as a current working collection. At
the moment expenditures for the operation of the library,
including staff salaries, total over halfa million dollars a year,
and that amount, like all educational costs, is certain to rise.

 

My second principle is this: the library must continue to
augment its capacity to aid research by faculty and students.
The Washington and Lee library cannot and should not
undertake to be a major research library in the sense of being
a great national repository, such as the Library of Congress
or the New York Public Library, or a library of a major
university offering extensive graduate work for the Ph.D.
degree. But the college library must have the quality and the
capabilities to assist and to encourage the faculty in pursuing
specialized studies in their field and in refreshing them-
selves with constant learning. This objective will be accom-
plished in part through expanded inter-library loans from
research libraries, through the purchase of limited amounts
of pertinent material for research in progress, and through
bibliographical and technological aids such as microfilm,
microfiche, and no doubt, “on-line machine readable” in-
formation through computer terminals. At the same time,
the library of the future will be used increasingly by students
pursuing research for course papers and projects requiring
individual study beyond the classroom—a development fully
consonant with Washington and Lee’s institutional philoso-
phy concerning the importance of the individual and his
sense of personal responsibility. Undergraduate research
contributes to resourcefulness and self-reliance, to the ability
for taking the initiative in one’s own learning, and to incul-
cating qualities of leadership.

John Gardner, former head of the Carnegie Corporation
and former Secretary of Health, Education, and Welfare,
has complained that American education is over-specialized
and that no one really wants to educate the leader. Everyone
is prepared, he says, to educate the specialist who advises
the leader but not the leader himself. Leaders in government
and executives in business deal not primarily with technical
details but almost exclusively with ideas and with people.
Broad comprehension, the ability to think, to evaluate and to
make judgments, to express oneself, to communicate one’s
concepts, and to motivate others to carry them out, are
marks of the leader, and this is just the kind of person that
our library-powered liberal arts education here at Washing-
ton and Lee seeks to produce.

A third principle must be for the library to stay abreast of
the latest developments in technology. As many of you
know, we are already benefiting greatly from participation in
SOLINET, the Southeastern Library Network, a computer
system that connects us with the Ohio College Library Cen-
ter, serving all the major college and university libraries in
the southeastern part of the United States. This electronic
link has been of untold value in the reclassification of our
entire collection according to the Library of Congress sys-
tem, in invoicing and record-keeping, and in interlibrary

 

 

BOOKLETS AVAILABLE

The University published a handsome pair of booklets on the
occasion of the dedication of the new library—one a 44-page
description, lavishly illustrated (with several full-color
photographs), of the philosophy and function of the new building,
the other a 16-page program of dedication events. Alumni, parents
and friends are invited to write to the Office of University
Development (Washington and Lee, Lexington 24450) for
complimentary University Library information packets.

 

 

 

loans. In addition, consideration will have to be given to
acquiring the hardware and software, already commercially
available, for computerized retrieval of bibliographical and
other information. Although with miniturization computers
are becoming smaller and less expensive, they are still costly
and the extent of the demand and the convenience of our
users will have to be balanced against those costs. We shall
no doubt need to make further use of microfilm and micro-
fiche—those tools of modern photographic technology that
make available extensive sources of information, especially
files of newspapers, in compact form requiring a limited
amount of storage space.

Fourth, we must be alert to co-operate with other li-
braries, especially in the state of Virginia, to establish net-
works in which each library covers certain subjects and has
certain capabilities to contribute to the total enterprise. This
and other kinds of cooperation can avoid duplication, hold
down costs, and carry out inter-library loans in ways that will
reduce the burden on the major research libraries, such as
the University of Virginia, VPI-SU, and the State Library in
Richmond, and at the same time make information and
educational materials readily accessible to the various cam-
puses and communities.

Finally, we must not forget the importance of the library
as a cultural center for Washington and Lee and Lexington.
In addition to books for general reading, the library will
augment its cultural role by sponsoring speakers, readings
by authors, conferences such as the stimulating one entitled
“Library Resources for College Scholars” held here on the
campus in February, and by publications concerning the
holdings and activities of the library.

All the stimulating activity—academic and cultural—to
which I have alluded will occur only if the library is appropri-
ately staffed with highly qualified, energetic professionals,
who have the vision and the educational background to
maintain and enhance the library's position as the genuine
power house of this University.

Today, then, we come to this place not merely to dedicate
a building and to express our joy over a consummation for
which we have long devoutly wished. We come to engage
the future and to rededicate ourselves to the conception of
the library as the dynamic source of power, energizing the
life of the mind at Washington and Lee. While we celebrate
a dream come true, we come as well to recommit ourselves
to sustaining that dream as a continuing reality. If the future
of many liberal arts colleges may be in doubt, there can be no
doubt about the future of Washington and Lee and about its
prospects for further contributions to education and to
society, so long as we regard the library as the power house
of our liberal learning.

15

 

by Robert S. Keefe

Washington by Winstanley

University Receives an Important 1796 Portrait Via Calcutta

An important 18th-century portrait of
George Washington, larger than life with a
romantic history just as big, has been
given to the University by the David
Warner Foundation of Tuscaloosa, Ala.

The superb portrait, which is in Gilbert
Stuart's “Lansdowne” style, was presented to
W&L on the occasion of the dedication of
the new library in May. The painting—
attributed to the artist William
Winstanley, a contemporary and colleague
of Stuart—hangs in the main lobby of the
library.

The chairman of the board of the David
Warner Foundation is Jack W. Warner,
40, a member of W&L’s Board of Trustees
since 1970 and, with his wife, Elizabeth,
one of Washington and Lee’s most
generous supporters for many years in
terms of gifts, time, and energy. The new
Warner Athletic Center is named for him.
Mr. Warner is president and board
chairman of Gulf States Paper Corp. of
Tuscaloosa.

The portrait, painted about 1796,
toward the end of Washington’s life, spent
163 years not in America but in India.

It had been given in 1801 as a mark of
“esteem and affection” to a self-made
Hindu multimillionaire, Ramdoolal Dey,
by a group of influential American ship
captains and merchants whom Ramdoolal
had befriended and supported during the
very first years of America’s international
trade following independence.

Ramdoolal was born literally in a field
in 1752, the son of desperately poor
beggar parents. He was a Horatio Alger of
sorts, however, and worked his way up in
the commercial empire of one of Calcutta’s
leading exporters, acquiring a vast fortune
at an early age—and a reputation for
scrupulous honesty.

When the brand-new United States
commenced its foreign trade in 1783, he
began immediately to supply his American
friends with loans of money and with
quality goods that were anxiously sought-
after in the young republic—leading to his
friends’ considerable prosperity and adding
further to his own.

His friends whom he had helped to
wealth decided to present him with a
uniquely American gift in thanks, and
could think of nothing more fitting than

16

 

J ack W. Warner

the then-five-year-old Washington portrait
by Winstanley which has now been given
to W&L by the Warner Foundation.

The painting was eventually sold to
another Indian by Ramdoolal’s grandson,
and it remained in Calcutta until 1963,
when it was purchased by a Czech-born
American, Erick Kauders of Marblehead,
Mass.

The Warner Foundation purchased it
this spring specifically for Washington and
Lee.

The portrait joins two other important
early works of George Washington art in
W&L's collections that are of exceptional
value—Charles Willson Peale’s priceless
1772 portrait of Washington in the uniform
of a colonel in the Virginia militia, the first
painting ever made of Washington from
life, and an original Gilbert Stuart portrait
in his famed Athanaeum style.

In a brief article published on the
occasion of the donation of the Winstanley
portrait, W&L's Dr. Pamela Simpson,
associate professor of art history, said the
new portrait is “perhaps less faithful to
Washington the man” than either of the
other two famous representations in the
W&L collection, the Stuart Athanaeum

 

painting and the Peale portrait.
“Instead,” Dr. Simpson writes, “it

depicts him as his countrymen idealized

him, even while he was alive. It is a

portrait of a réle. . . . It is as a moral ideal
that we see Washington portrayed in this
Lansdowne copy . . . [which] thus adds
measurably to the historical importance of
[W&L’s] collections and to the historical
and aesthetic values they reflect.”

It was George Washington who in 1796
rescued the school then called Liberty
Hall Academy from the literal brink of
bankruptcy by endowing it with $50,000 in
stock, at the time the largest act of
philanthropy in the nation’s history.

At the library-dedication banquet when
the gift of the portrait was announced, Jack
Warner described his philosophy of
selecting works of art for purchase.

“If I like it, I buy it,” he said.

“Tf I don't, I don’t.”

The biographical information about Ramdoolal
Dey, and the story of the painting's Calcutta
years, are derived from an article by Dr. Duncan
Emrich of American University, Washington,
D.C., “A Yankee Gift to a Bengali,” in Smith-
sonian magazine, February, 1976.

 

Below—The Ramdoolal Dey portrait (closeup, top left) hangs majestically
in the main lobby of the new library (top right). On the night it was
formally presented to the University, Board Secretary James W.
Whitehead presented a dramatic mixed-media program (bottom photos)
tracing WéL’s George Washington art across two centuries, from the
Peale portrait, the first ever painted of Washington from life, through
Mathew Kahle’s folk-art classic Ol George (center), to the newly acquired
Ramdoolal portrait by Winstanley (right).

 

Commencement 1980
Four Alumni Are Honored as 319 Undergraduates Are Awarded Diplomas

Washington and Lee awarded diplomas
to 319 undergraduate seniors and
conferred four honorary doctorates in
commencement excerises on June 5,
marking the end of its 230th academic
year.

The honorary degrees were all
presented to prominent alumni:

Dr. E. Lovell Becker, a kidney
specialist who was the American Medical
Association’s director of graduate medical
evaluation for the past two years and who will
become director of medicine at Beth Israel
Medical Center in New York in
September, and is now professor of
medicine at Mount Sinai School of
Medicine;

Edward M. Korry of Stonington,
Conn., former United States ambassador
to Ethiopia and Chile and prize-winning
newsman, now a writer and consultant;

Rupert N. Latture of Lexington, the
88-year-old surviving founder of Omicron
Delta Kappa, the campus leadership
society he and 14 Washington and Lee
friends founded in 1914, which now has
chapters on more than 160 campuses
throughout the nation;

And Edwin A. Morris of Greensboro,
N.C., board chairman of Blue Bell Inc.,
the manufacturer of Wrangler jeans, whose
company sales have tripled in just the past
five years. )

Commencement-week activities began
with the traditional baccalaureate sermon,
delivered this year by Dr. David W.
Sprunt, University chaplin and Fletcher
Otey Thomas Professor of Bible. His
address was followed by the Alumni
Association's traditional luncheon on the
Front Lawn for graduates and their guests.

In the graduating class, nine students
received summa cum laude honors for
academic excellence; magna cum laude
and cum laude distinctions went to 36 and
79 seniors, respectively.

The undergraduate commencement
excercises began with a commissioning
ceremony for 20 graduates of the Reserve
Officers Training Corps program. Lt. Gen.
Robert G. Gard Jr., president of the
National Defense University, was the
speaker.

In his remarks to the B.A. and B.S.

18

Rupert N. Latture

graduates and their families, President
Huntley warned that “a college degree is
not primarily a credential that will serve as
a key to open locked doors. From here on
out, less will be given to you and more will
be expected of you. At the very least, it
will be expected that you live your lives in

 

Edwin A. Morris

a way that leaves things no worse than
they were before you came along. Such an
objective, incidentally, though somewhat
negatively framed, is not an altogether
unworthy one... .”

Huntley also noted that “it is popular
in these days in certain contexts to refer to

 

‘value judgments ; the phrase is
redundant. All judgments are value
judgments, or they are not judgments at
all.

“We are told that, in his last years, Lee
was once asked by the mother of a small
infant what bit of wisdom she could pass
on to him. Lee replied, after some
thought: “Tell him to deny himself.’

“Of course, I do not know what Lee
meant by that—but I should like to think
he spoke from the depths of his own
tortured bouts with himself, and the
wisdom and equanimity he had painfully
acquired. I should like to think he meant:
‘Tell him to deny self-pity, to control self-
concern, to subdue self-love. Tell him to
direct those instincts for pity and concern
and love outward, where they nourish
others, rather than inward where they will
starve his soul.’

“T think it may be accurate to say that
the whole purpose of liberal education is
to allow one to increase the scope of power
over one's self, the power of self-direction
and the ability to perceive more
sensitively the worth and value of one’s
actions. Education is liberal precisely
insofar as it extends one’s freedom in this
way.

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Medallion, conferred by the faculty on the
student who has most conspicuously
excelled “in high ideals of living, in
spiritual qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others,” was
presented to Jay Judah Blumberg of
Boonton, N.J., senior class representative
on the student Executive Committee and
founding chairman of W&L’s muscular
dystrophy dance marathon in 1979. In his
two years as chairman of the charity event,
approximately $35,000 was raised toward
MD treatment and research.

William Henry Matthai Jr. of Baltimore
was the 1980 valedictorian. He graduated
summa cum laude with a B.S. degree in
chemistry, and compiled an almost-perfect
academic record during his four years—a
3.944 grade-point average on W&L’s 4.0
scale.

Another highlight of the graduation
exercises was the presentation of the first
annual Jean Amory Wornom Award for

 
   

 

: fee, 4
fi Wi
pc ee

Wi

lliam H. Matthai Jr., 1980 class valedictorian, is congratulated by his parents and President Huntley

    

in the president's office prior to the commencement exercises.

President Huntley extends a warm handshake to Algernon Sydney Sullivan Medallion winner Jay J.

Blumberg, pictured here with his parents.

Distinguished Literary Criticism, given for
the best piece of discursive writing in an
English course during the academic year.
The 1980 recipient—who received his
award from I. Leake Wornom Jr., 50L,
and family—was James R. Leva, a senior
English major, who also won a Mahan
Award for outstanding creative writing this
year as well as a Fulbright Scholarship for
study in France next year.

Dr. Becker, who received the honorary
Doctor of Science degree, is a 1944 W&L
graduate. In addition to his current
medical duties, he has served as president
of the National Kidney Foundation from
1970 to 1973, and was director of
continuing education for Cornell's medical

school from 1972 until 1978 when he went
to the A.M.A. in Chicago.

The honorary degree citation for Dr.
Becker remarked that his busy career
hasn't hampered his interest in other
fields. An active explorer—to such remote
areas as Antarctica, Alaska’s glacier lands,
the Amazon River—and an expert
photographer, he is also a gourmet cook
and is currently writing a book on fortified
wines. The citation concluded, “We would
like to think that the breadth of knowledge
and interests he has exhibited over the
years is due in part to his exposure to the
liberal arts tradition here at Washington
and Lee.”

Korry, an alumnus of the class of 1942,

19

 

 

Commencement 1980

was a journalist for 20 years before he was
pressed into diplomatic service by
President Kennedy. Working for UP
Radio, he became chief correspondent in
post-War Germany and later chief
European correspondent. In 1958 he
became European editor of Look, and won
two of journalism’s most prestigious
honors—the Overseas Press Club Award
for magazine reporting and the American
Newspaper Guild’s Page One Award.

In recent years, since his return to
private life, he has been president of the
Association of American Publishers and
president of the United Nations
Association; he was a consultant to the
State Department; and is a visiting
lecturer in government at Connecticut
College. He received the honorary Doctor
of Laws degree.

“Rupert Latture and Washington and
Lee have been part of each other for so
long surely no one here today was witness
to the beginning of this remarkable
association.” So began the citation reading
for the man whose professional career at
Washington and Lee has reached a record-
breaking length of 60 years—dating back
to 1920, when he returned to W&L after
World War I to teach political science,
moving through his later 21 years as
department head, then the most recent 18
years spent as special assistant to the
president. And no end in sight.

The citation continues: “When

es

. ‘ eS
Th ‘ % 3
tit? =

hea S| S

ead : ;

us . at

 

I. Leake Wornom, ’50L (second from left), presents the first annual Jean Amory Wornom Award for

freshmen and families arrive in
September, he is there at the freshman
dorm to make them feel welcome. When
alumni return to campus, his is the familiar
face to every student generation, and the
reunions are warm and nostalgic. He
carries on a lively correspondence with
dozens of older alumni, maintaining and
cultivating a level of interest among them
that no other person at Washington and
Lee could do as well. He has indeed
moved this University, all for the better,
evoking in us sentiments of admiration,
pride and great respect. Of all the
honorary degrees ever conferred by
Washington and Lee University, none has
ever been awarded with the special
gratitude and affection that accompanies
this proclamation of Rupert Nelson Latture
as Doctor of Laws.” At the close of this
citation, one and all rose to their feet in a
happy, sustained ovation.

Morris received his degree in business
administration from Washington and Lee
in 1926, and later earned a master’s degree
from Harvard Business School. He
(through his Blue Bell company) has, in
the words of his citation, “done as much as
any man to ease the lives of college
students everywhere. He makes blue
jeans. Indeed, he has applied this
principle of quality at a low price to his
more than 40 years of leadership at Blue
Bell—famous, among other things, for its
Wrangler jeans—and in the process he has

     

   

el

Distinguished Critical Writing to James R. Leva,’80. Also pictured are (from left) Isaac L. Wornom III,
‘77; John M. Evans, chairman of the awards committee; I. Leake Wornom; Mrs. Bessie S. Amory,
mother of the late Jean Amory Wornom; and Thomas A. Wornom, ’80.

20

built an international, billion-dollar-a-year
business.”

He is currently a member of the
executive committee of Duke University’s
hospital advisory board and a trustee of the
American Institute for Economic
Research. Duke’s clinical cancer-research
building was dedicated in his name in
1978. And in addition, he was an organizer
and chairman of Washington and Lee’s
Estate Planning Council and continues to
be an adviser to it. He received the
honorary Doctor of Laws degree.

ARERR SSR gee a OR
Baccalaureate

Three models ranging in time and
culture from St. Paul to Robert E. Lee to
the Japanese ideal of “shibumi’ can
provide important keys to achievement of
self-discipline, the chaplain of Washington
and Lee University told graduating
students and their families in his
baccalaureate sermon.

Dr. David Worth Sprunt, W&L’s
Fletcher Otey Thomas Professor of
Bible and department head as well as
chaplain, described the search for self-
mastery as perhaps the most troublesome
challenge facing college students, not to
mention anyone else who hopes to
function adequately in contemporary
society.

Sprunt recalled that several years ago,
a dozen or more W&L undergraduates
organized an informal discussion group
with his help to address some of the
problems they faced as students,
particularly the question of achieving self-
mastery or self-discipline.

Outsiders seem to have re-interpreted
that original question, Sprunt said, to the
point that in a recent book, The Trouble
With Nowadays, author Cleveland Amory
asserts that those W&L students were
alarmed over a complete inability “to do
anything from completing an assignment to
writing a decent paper. ”

That was never the case, Sprunt said in
his baccalaureate remarks. He termed
Amory s indictment—attributed in the
book to Sprunt himself—“‘ridiculous” and
“silly.”

But the question of self-discipline, if it

 

 

Alumni fathers of law graduates stand behind Fe

 

Dr. David Worth Sprunt

is distinguished from paralyzing incapacity
to function—remains, the chaplain said.

The oddly disparate clues to the
attitude necessary for achieving self-
discipline, he said, begin with a “strikingly
relevant’ passage from Paul’s letter
written from prison to the Philippians. “I
have learned,” the apostle wrote, “to find
resources in myself whatever my
circumstances. I know what it is to be
brought low, and I know what it is to have
plenty. . . . I have strength for anything
through Him who gives me power.”

In Lee, discipline made itself apparent
in his unfailing commitment to be “calm
when others were frenzied, loving when
they hated, and silent when they spoke
with bitter tongue.” Sprunt quoted
Douglas Southall Freeman’s
characterization of Lee as “sustained in all
of it by the self-mastery that was, in large
measure, the expression of his religion.
Belief in God’s mercy and submission to
His will . . . were stronger after
Appomattox, if that were possible, than
before. ”

And in the new book by Trevanian,

their daughters and son (left to right) Ga
Richard H. Turley, ’45, Elizabeth Turley; @®
J. Vaughan Beale, ’36, ’39L, Jesse B. Beale; Gaya
Jack S. Callicott, ’49, Betsey Callicott. SiM@s

Shibumi, Sprunt found the concept at the
basis of the Japanese ideal of simplicity. In
an effort to define the elusive title
concept, one of the book’s main characters
wonders if it may refer to “authority
without domination . . . one must pass
through knowledge and arrive at
simplicity.” The turn of phrase is almost
verbatim from Lee’s own writings and
descriptions of him by biographers.

If that character in the book had known
Lee, Sprunt said, “I imagine he would
have quickly recognized that very quality
he himself sought in the character of
Lee—that wholly human gentleman, the
essential elements of whose positive
character were two and only two,
simplicity and spirituality.”

SSR TREE eA eR ZA
Law Commencement

Washington and Lee awarded law
degrees to 103 men and women on
Sunday, May 25. President Huntley, in his
commencement address, cautioned the
graduates to be conscious of the urgent
need to strike a balance between the
extremes of viewing the system of laws as a
machine, on the one hand, and giving in
wholly to emotion and instinct, on the
other hand.

The ceremony was held in Lee Chapel
instead of on the Front Lawn because of
intermittent showers throughout the day.

President Huntley told the graduates
and the standing-room-only audience of
families and friends: “The most important
thing lawyers do is think. Lawyers are paid
to think because they seem to be better at
thinking than most others are. They are
expected to be able to think effectively
about almost any subject—and not just
about purely legal matters, if indeed there
are any purely legal matters. . . .

“The very best lawyer,” he said, “is
one who lives the life of the mind in a
practical world—a life of reason.”

He noted the 19th century Scottish
philosopher Thomas Carlyle’s attack on
Mechanism: “ ‘All is by rule and calculated
contrivance, ” and literature, religion, the
arts, and even government become
corrupted by a neglect of the “ ‘moral,
religious, and spiritual condition of

 

people.’ ”

Huntley warned the new lawyers that
“the kind of Mechanistic thinking Carlyle
attacks is one of the gravest risks to be
encountered in the process of ‘thinking
like a lawyer.’ ”

But, Huntley said, the other extreme—
“to replace [Mechanism] with a reverence
for emotion and instinct”—is likely to lead
to just as severe a deterioration of the fabric
of society. The “cults” that proliferated in
recent years “provide adequate examples,”
he said, of excess in “reaction against the
intellect, reaction against the life of
reason.”

Huntley told the graduates their
challenge must be “to continue to sharpen
those disciplines of thought to which your
legal education has at least introduced
you. .. . It is perilously dangerous—and
dehumanizing—to allow the intellect to
avoid confrontation with the profound
values that give meaning to life.

“Tf there is no reason, no possibility of
truth, no justice, then law is reduced to an
absurd effort, ‘full,’ in Macbeth’s phrase,
‘of sound and fury, signifying nothing.’ ”

 

President Huntley addresses law graduates
in a crowded Lee Chapel.

21

 

 

i
*é

a ‘

Sons of alumni who received academic degrees standing behind their fathers: John R. Cole, 50, and John R. Cole Jr.; Everett W. Newcomb Jr., ’45, and Robert
S: Newcomb; Herbert N. Hamric Jr., 46, and Mark A. Hamric; Isaac Leake Wornom Jr., ’50L, and Thomas A. Wornom; George D. Vermilya, 30, and George
D. Vermilya Jr.; Matthew W. Paxton Jr., 49, and William W. Paxton; David E. Constine Jr., 52, and David E. Constine III; Arthur W. Mann Jr., ’40, and
Thomas F.. Mann; John S. R. Schoenfeld, ’49, and Richard H. Schoenfeld; Ernest L. Childs Jr.,’36, and Dale S. Childs; Tom Moore Jr., 45, and H. Frederick
T. Moore; A. Lea Booth, ’40, and sons Cary G. Booth and George L. Booth.

 

Ps * 237 ° es r 3 > a ee = : vo? i a at ba t <e * Pa § ‘ be ee * = ¥ #y 3
a ¢ ae ee ; : é : oe # Ae. ws = ge ‘ . . : ; ae
; a* ee of ‘ a, ae . ¢ ~ = . ; : eee ae : es ‘ ok
e. 8 a ™ {

More sons of alumni who received academic degrees stand behind their fathers: Spencer W. Morten Jr., "49, and J. Gregory Morten; Patrick C. Devine, ’46,
and Michael R. Devine; Sidney M. Rogers Jr., 55, and S. Mills Rogers III; Hallett R. Gates Jr., 48, and Hallett R. Gates III; Walton W. Kingsbery Jr., 48, and
Peter C. Kingsbery; Jack E. Greer, 51L, and David A. Greer; J. Randolph Tucker Jr., ’48L, and Carter H. Tucker; Douglas M. Smith, ’51, 53L, and Herbert
G. Smith II; Thomas A. Wash, 51, and B. Scott Wash; Richard P. Cancelmo, ’51, and Richard P. Cancelmo Jr.; Theodore B. Martin Sr., 46, and Theodore

B. Martin Jr.; George F. Bauer Jr., 38, and G. Brian Bauer.

RELI
Se

Be t i sec Sa % 7 « ag
SS ret , . es d
SS ee oe . : st 4 ‘
as a i‘ . 7% 3 ae Z ke: a : a 7 iri f Pere es
Pan, r e .* oe ‘ sot . is ie : wl’ ee ee ;
Sis x o i ey ‘ 3 Fy 3
: "aan F Ae ae
3 ; sf a i id . bd
a a « " . » i ; “ ‘ Bs i
. : i ‘ ; . iets re . G 7
© SP ae oe A ~* a mh i a we Mae! — aa ‘
: Sal : »* a ba ‘ ; S M : ¢ :
S . . = 3 * . ' * . - 3
Bl me. S ex ; : ae ;
re

  

Another group of graduating alumni sons pose behind their fathers on Parmly Plaza: William R. Hill, 54, and William F. Hill; Robert E. Steele III, 41, and C.
Bayard Steele; Richard B. McCubbin, ’51, and David J. McCubbin; Ralph C. Porter III, 55, and Christopher T. Porter; John C. Earle, ‘50, and Robert B.
Earle; Robert J. Berghel, '61L, and Robert J. Berghel Jr.; Adrian Williamson Jr., ’50, and Adrian Williamson III; Guy T. Steuart II, 53, and Guy T. Steuart III;
J. W. McClintock III, 53, and Murry G. McClintock; James R. Moore, 52, and J. Rutherford Moore; Bertram R. Schewel, ’41, and Johnathan B. Schewel.

22

by Robert S. Keefe

The Order of Ramdoolal Dey

The Secret Is Revealed: Why 13 Men Wore Those Strange Vests This Spring

 

 

 

The Kandy-kolored thuthor

 

 

The Trustee’s Spouse

This item isn’t meant for you to read
today. It is a footnote for social historians
in the 21st century.

The Order of Ramdoolal Dey got
founded May 7, 1980, at Washington and
Lee University, by James W. Whitehead,
the secretary of the Board of Trustees.

The reason the Order got founded was
that Jim Whitehead walked by Henry
Simpson's antique shoppe on West
Washington Street one day and saw
thirteen fabulously gaudy, red-white-and-
blue, hundred-year-old ceremonial lodge
vests for sale, and he had to buy them. Jim
Whitehead is like that. There are quirky
things he can't help. He is nevertheless a
good W&L Board secretary. (Or, perhaps,
he is therefore a good W&L Board
secretary.)

Anyway, Henry Simpson is a regular
W&L-type person. He didn't go to W&L,
but his wife, Pam, teaches art history at
W&L, and Henry even belongs to the
administration's Thursday Night Poker
Gang-of-Eight. So he gave Jim Whitehead
a good price on the gaudy ceremonial
vests, all 13 as a lot.

Jim Whitehead was delighted. The
only time he was ever more delighted was
when he discovered Louise Herreshoff s
paintings. He had only one problem,
though: What does one do with 13 gaudy,
red-white-and-blue, 19th-century
ceremonial lodge vests? :

So he founded the Order of Ramdoolal
Dey.

 

 

The Mock Convention Secretary

The Order's purpose is so secret that
even the founder doesn’t know what it is.
He says he'll decide next week or year or
sO.

The order of Ramdoolal Dey caught on
quickly. Jim Whitehead made it catch on
quickly. He wore his own Ramdoolal vest
faithfully throughout Mock Con-
vention/Alumni Reunion weekend. He
made the president of W&L wear a vest.
He made the assistant to the president of
W&L wear a vest. He made Jimmie
Martin wear one. (Jimmie Martin is the
one whom the president describes as “the
only board spouse I don’t kiss.”) He made
the public relations director wear one.
(The public relations director is a
journalist, and thus it is the finest: piece of
clothing he owns.) Kandy-kolored Tom

he gave his reunion speech in Lee Chapel;
he wouldn't appear anywhere on campus
without it. (Another journalist.) (The local
newspaper published a picture of Wolfe
wearing his Ramdoolal vest. The editor, a
journalist, was probably jealous.)

Because there are just 13 vests,
membership in the Order is severely
limited. A member has to die, or leave
W&L, or both, before the gaudy, red-
white-and-blue, 19th century mantle is
passed.

Ramdoolal Dey himself—who dealt
only in high class goods with high-tone
people, after all—would be pleased.

Maybe.

23

 

 

 

Ww Gazette
& a

Griffith and Graves Retire; Phillips Is Named to Brown Professorship

Edwin Claybrook Griffith, head of the
economics department at W&L for the
past 30 years and a member of the
University faculty since 1946, retired at
the close of this academic year.

An active leader in both the affairs of
the University and the activities of the
Lexington community, Griffith will
continue his work with the Federal
Mediation and Arbitration Service—and
looks forward to more time spent with his
family, garden and wood-working shop.

A native of Westmoreland County, Va.,
Griffith graduated from Hampden-Sydney
College, and then received his advanced
degrees (master’s and Ph.D. in economics)
from the University of Virginia.

He began his career as an associate
professor of economics at the University of
Georgia prior to joining the W&L faculty.
He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, Beta Gamma Sigma
and Omicron Delta Epsilon honorary
societies. Married to the former Mary
Owen Hill, he has a son and a daughter.

In the same third-floor office he has
occupied for the past 34 years, Griffith
reflected about the changes, progress,
even the problems he has seen at
Washington and Lee.

“I think one of the greatest attributes of
the University,” he said, “is its emphasis
on classroom performance, for both faculty
and students. Of course, research is also
emphasized and there is ample
opportunity allowed for it, but W&L
allows people whose main interest is
teaching to do just that. It is a rare quality,
but here teaching is not merely a means of
support for an individual faculty member
while research is underway.”

Another tradition that interests the
professor—one whose gradual
disappearance alarms him greatly—is the
“speaking tradition” on campus. “For as
long as I can remember, a student would
almost always pass another student or a
professor with some friendly recognition—
a hello, a wave, a nod. Now, speaking is
more honored in the breach than in the
actuality. Certainly there are many
students who continue to recognize each
other in passing, as they always have, but
the number is falling. Now, the reason this

24

 

Dr. E. C. Griffith

bothers me is not so much the passing of a
time-honored tradition; after all, we
probably have some traditions that should
be destroyed. But I look on speaking as a
simple symbol people have of recognizing
those associated with them in a common
pursuit. I can’t do my job without you, and
vice versa. We are partners, fellows, and I
think this is all that speaking involves.”

Griffith also finds the area of major
requirements and course distribution to be
a subject of concern. As he said, “In the
past 10 years, graduation from the
University has become easier in a sense. It
is now possible for a student to receive a
Bachelor of Arts degree without ever
having taken an English course, a history
course, or a mathematics course. And for a
man to have a B.A. degree who cannot
say, I have had at least one course in
British or American literature, or in the
history of my country’ is almost like saying
to a medical student “We award you a
medical degree but you don't have to
study anatomy.’

“T also feel the University should—
indeed, must—provide more scholarship
aid than it is presently offering. We must
be able to go out into the academic market
and say to industrious, ambitious,
conscientious boys from the poorest

economic backgrounds “We want you at
Washington and Lee.’ And if the boy can't
handle the financial aspects, I hope we can
always offer him the aid necessary to bring
to them the benefits of the fine faculty and
facilities we have.

“Of course, all my opinions are offered
in a constructive spirit. I want it clearly
understood that I have enjoyed my years
here immensely—they have been a
delightful experience. I think the proof of
that is the fact that in all my time here, I
never made a serious attempt to find a
teaching position at another university.
And though there may be some human
flaws in what all of us are doing here—
myself included—I find that there has
been progress, and leaving all this for
retirement definitely has its sad aspects.”

Griffith closes his discussion by looking
toward “new ideas from younger people
trained in a manner different from my
older methods.” And it is true that the
inevitable passing of time insures that
younger professors will rise to replace the
veterans. But it is men like Claybrook
Griffith—through his candidness, insight,
and experiences given to thousands of
students in the classroom—who prove that
the mere passage of time will not dim our
realization of the dedicated service of
senior professors.

And Eddie Graves

Edward Spencer Graves, adjunct
professor of law for more than 30 years,
retired from teaching at the end of the
academic year.

Graves, who taught courses in legal
draftsmanship, domestic relations, estate
planning, and Virginia procedure, was
never a full-time member of the W&L
faculty; he divided his time between
Lexington and Lynchburg, where he
maintained a private practice (which he
will continue as a senior partner in the
heavily W&L firm of Edmunds, Williams,
Robertson, Sackett, Baldwin & Graves).

But few teachers were more highly
regarded by W&L law students and faculty
colleagues, professionally and personally,
than Eddie Graves.

President Huntley, in his remarks to

 

 

the law graduates, called Graves “one of
the finest members of the Washington and
Lee law faculty in my memory.” He went
on, He taught me as he has taught you,
and I was also a colleague of his—one of
the finest teachers I have ever had and one
of the most helpful colleagues. We shall
miss him.”

He earned two degrees from W&L, the
A.B. in 1930 and a master’s a year later,
then took his law degree from Harvard.
He began commuting to Washington and
Lee to lecture on domestic-relations law in
1948, and has been making the trip ever
since.

His first priority in retirement from the

er 2 ! cd
ics SEN hd ee

" x

Pee ¢ ae VA

 

Edeoud S. Gravis

classroom, according to a profile in the
W2&L Law News, is his annual vacation to
Nags Head, N.C., for a few weeks “of
sipping whisky and playing bridge.” Then
it’s off to West Berlin for a meeting of the
International Bar Association, in which he
is active, then, next winter, back to
Anguilla, “mixing business and pleasure by
doing some domestic-relations work in the
mornings. ”

In Lynchburg, he'll be working on the
new Handbook of Virginia Procedure, of
which he is a co-author, an extension of his
work drafting the sections of the Virginia
Code dealing with appeals-bond
requirements, discovery, and evidence.

PE ZT ES APE ET
Phillips named to
Robert G. Brown chair

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., a member
of the W&L economics faculty since 1959,
has been named by the Board of Trustees
to the University’s newest endowed chair,
the Robert G. Brown Professorship.

The Brown chair—the first

professorship at W&L to be fully endowed |

during the lifetime of its donor—was
created by a $500,000 gift from a Dallas oil

executive and his wife, Robert G. and Judy

Brown. Their benefaction was announced
at the time of Brown’s 30th class reunion a
year ago.

Brown, who is chairman of the board
and chief executive officer of Universal

Resources Corp. of Dallas, made his gift to

Washington and Lee’s endowment to
honor the 40-year teaching career of Dr.
Lewis Kerr Johnson, professor emeritus of
business administration and one of
Washington and Lee’s most widely known
and admired teachers.

Dr. Johnson, who ended his full-time

teaching career in 1973, was named Robert

G. Brown Professor Emeritus, and retains
that designation.

Endowed professorships at Washington
and Lee are established in recognition of
gifts of $500,000 or more to the
University s endowment or to other
permanent capital purposes.

“Any university is perhaps best
distinguished in academic terms by such
chairs,” Board Rector E. Marshall Nuckols
said. “They constitute a singular
recognition of exceptional teaching and
scholarly accomplishment, and are a proud
record as well of the interest and
investment of especially generous friends
of higher education.”

The Brown chair is Washington and
Lee’s seventh endowed professorship. The
Board hopes eventually that every
academic department at the University
will have at least one, Nuckols said.

President Huntley underscored the
significance of endowed professorships,
calling the establishment of a chair “an
event of exceptional importance in
Washington and Lee’s, or in any
university s, academic program. But what
makes this such a distinctive undertaking,”
he said, “is that Bob and Judy Brown have
provided this support in the form of an
outright gift. They are active, vital,
creative persons, and I know for certain
that they will derive considerable pleasure
and satisfaction from the knowledge that
their professorship is held by one of the
most energetic and well-known members
of our faculty.”

Phillips, a Ph.D. graduate of Harvard,
is nationally regarded as one of the
foremost authorities in the economics of
regulated industries and is the author of
several books including the widely used
text Economics of Regulation and more
than three dozen research articles.

He has twice been international

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr.

 

 

president of Omicron Delta Epsilon, the
honor society in economics. As a
consultant, he travels as much as 65,000
miles a year, and testifies regularly as an
expert witness before federal agencies and
state regulatory commissions from coast to
coast. He has also been mayor of
Lexington since 1971 and was a member of
the blue-ribbon White House Commission
on Review of the National Policy Toward
Gambling.

BEES SE SIL On SE, 0
$450,000 bequest
aids law school

Washington and Lee has received a
bequest of approximately $450,000 from
the estate of the late James A. Blalock, a
Dallas attorney and 1937 law graduate who
died in October 1978.

In his will, Blalock designated his
bequest “for the benefit of the law school,
in a manner that will—for some extended
period of years—benefit both good
scholarship and good teaching.”

After the administration of the estate is
complete, the W&L Board of Trustees will
name a specific use for the estate
consistent with Blalock’s wishes.

After his graduation from Washington
and Lee, Blalock served with the U.S.
Army during World War II. From 1949 to
1967 he was an attorney examiner with the
Federal Trade Commission in Washington,
D.C., and upon his retirement from that
post he entered the real-estate title

25

i SN a

Le Gazette

business in Dallas, an occupation he
pursued with considerable success until his
death.

He was a member of the Virginia and
Mississippi Bar Associations, the U.S.
Supreme Court Bar, and the U.S. Court of
Military Appeals Bar.

“It is characteristic of Jim Blalock—a
good and gracious man, and a lawyer of
superlative talent, integrity and
achievement—that he would have
remembered his alma mater in so
generous a manner, commented one of
his longtime friends, Virginia State
Supreme Court Chief Justice Lawrence
W. T’Anson.

AER SS
Three receive Fulbrights

Three June honor graduates have been
awarded Fulbright grants for study or work
in Europe next year—James Robert Leva
of Morristown, N.J.; Singleton Dewey
Keesler Jr. of Charlotte, and John Franklin
Purdy Jr. of Hampton.

Keesler, a double major in English and
German, will carry out a study of German
folk ballads at the University of Freiburg
during his year abroad. He was president
in 1979-80 of W&L’s chapter of Omicron
Delta Kappa and was a senior-class
representative on the student government
Executive Committee.

Purdy will study German literature,
also at Freiburg, under a German
Academic Exchange Service grant
administered by the Fulbright program.

Leva's is a “teaching Fulbright”—
teaching American culture in a Paris lycée
while taking courses at the Sorbonne.

Ae
First Howerton
scholar-in-residence named

The dean of students at one of Japan’s
leading private universities will inaugurate
W&Ls first scholar-in-residence program
sponsored by the Philip Fullerton
Howerton Endowment Fund in the
department of religion.

James Takashi Yashiro, dean and
professor of church history at Rikkyo
University in Tokyo, will be visiting
professor of religion for the 1980-81
academic year.

As Howerton Scholar and professor of
religion at W&L, Yashiro will teach
courses in Japanese culture and Christian
thought as well as a seminar on Buddhism

and Christianity.
26

 

James T. Yashiro

Yashiro was educated at Kenyon
College in Ohio, Virginia Theological
Seminary, Kyoto University in Japan, and
St. Augustine’s College in Canterbury,
England.

He joined the faculty at Rikkyo—the
Japanese university with which W&L has
had an exchange program for two years—
in 1972, and became dean in 1977. He is
the author of several books on modern and
historical Christianity and has written
more than a dozen articles for scholarly
journals in Japan.

The Philip F. Howerton Fund at W&L
was established by Mr. Howerton’s widow,
Mrs. Emmie Howerton of Charlotte,
N.C., to stimulate an increased
examination and understanding of the
worth of religious faith on contemporary
society and to reinforce Washington and
Lee’s commitment to what Robert E. Lee
once termed “the very marrow of the
Gospel.”

Philip Howerton, who died 12 years
ago, was moderator of the Presbyterian
Church of the U.S. (Southern) in 1957,
and was a prominent insurance executive
in Charlotte. He was nationally known as a
lecturer in religion and in life insurance.

His father, who was professor of
religion and philosophy at W&L from 1907
until his death in 1924, preceded Philip
Howerton as moderator of the
Presbyterian Church by 50 years.

a ToC
Faculty promotions

Promotions in academic ranks have
been announced for 12 members of the
faculty at Washington and Lee University.

Named full professors, moving from
associate professor, are Dr. Robert B.
Brownell (mathematics), Dr. Joseph
Goldsten (business administration), I-
Hsiung Ju (fine arts), Dr. Lawrence M.
Lamont (business administration) and Dr.
Henry P. Porter (history).

Moving from assistant professor to
associate professor are Dr. Charles T.
Boggs (philosophy), Denis J. Brion (law),
Dr. Gary H. Dobbs (biology), Dr. Roger
B. Jeans (Asian history), Betty Ruth
Kondayan (head of reference services in
the undergraduate library), Hampden H.
Smith III (journalism) and Dr. O. Kendall
White Jr. (sociology).

The promotions, which were approved
by the W&L Board of Trustees last month,
are effective Sept. 1.

Summer program
in humanities planned

Washington and Lee is planning a first
for the school—a summer institute next
year which will present two to three weeks
of intense study in the humanities for
middle-level business executives.

Planning for the institute is supported
by a grant of nearly $6,000 from the
National Endowment for the Humanities.
Through that NEH grant, the director of
the Center for Humanistic Studies at the
University of Kansas, Richard DeGeorge,
is spending part of the summer at
Washington and Lee helping make
preliminary plans.

The institute at Washington and Lee
was proposed by Dr. Severn Duvall,
W&L's Henry Fox Professor of English,
who has taught in two similar institutes at
Dartmouth College. The program will
consist of an “intensive interdisciplinary
course of study in the humanities,” he
said.

Ee CCN
Two June graduates
join the W&L staff

Two new graduates have joined the
University administration, one in
publications and one in admissions.

Named assistant director of
publications and assistant director of the
W&L news office is P. Craig Cornett, a
cum laude graduate with majors in politics
and economics who was co-chairman of the
Mock Convention in May and winner of
the Frank J. Gilliam Award this past year.

Named a counselor in the admissions

aM Ri a a ane ee aga ed ek sae ee

 

 

office is Theodore B. Martin Jr., a cum
laude graduate in French who was co-
captain of the water polo team and vice
president of the senior class.

Cornett, who is from Camp Springs,
Md., will be a regular contributor to the
Alumni Magazine, will edit the
University's Weekly Calendar, and will
have considerable responsibility for
preparing news releases.

In the one-year post, which is reserved
for a new graduate, he succeeds M. Gray
Coleman II, 79, who will enter the
University of Virginia's law school this fall.

Martin succeeds Peter M. Williams,
79, in the admissions post, which involves
considerable travel to secondary schools,
on-campus interviews of prospective
students, and admissions committee work.

$a EEE SEL
And still more Ramdoolal
business: his own march

One of the more unusual events of
library-dedication weekend at W&L—or
perhaps one of the more unusual events of
the decade—was the world premiere
presentation of the “Ramdoolal Dey
March,” an original composition written
just for the occasion of the portrait
presentation.

The “March” is the work and gift of
Dennis Burnside, a Nashville composer,
arranger and conductor whose recent
credits in the musical world encompass
Dolly Parton, Donald Duck and Aaron
Copland.

Burnside is affiliated with Odyssey
Productions in Nashville, one of whose
partners is Paul Whitehead, son of W&L
Board Secretary and Mrs. James W.
Whitehead, and in addition to Burnside’s
new evocative march (which several
people have suggested, only half-
waggishly, become W&L’s new graduation
processional), the studio’s gift included
elaborate technical work and a series of
variations in the styles of the 18th and 19th
centuries on the WUL Swing—all in
connection with the mixed-media program
on W&L’s George Washington portraiture
developed by Whitehead pére (see page
17).

EEC ES EE
Lee at Gettysburg:
New novel by Davis

Paxton Davis, retired professor of
journalism and department head from 1968
to 1974, is the author of a new book from

Atheneum, Three Days—an imaginative
account of the Battle of Gettysburg and
particularly of Robert E. Lee’s role in it.

Davis Lee lost that battle because of
Lee’s “conviction of invincibility,” his own
and that of his troops. “Believing them
capable of anything,” Davis writes, “he'd
asked more of his soldiers than they could
give.

But Davis’ portrayal of Lee is hardly
unsympathetic, according to New York
Times associate editor Tom Wicker (an old
Davis friend from days as newsmen on the
Winston-Salem Journal and Sentinel), writing
in the Times Book Review. “His Lee is a man
of high character and unblemished courage—
not the least manifestation of which was his
willingness to take the blame for defeat.”

Wicker writes: “This is a superb short
account [102 pages] of those terrible July
days and the man whose warrior heart
dominated them. Not for the squeamish, it
paints the battle in its true colors of blood
and smoke. . . . Paxton Davis knows well
that war, as he writes of the first day’s
fighting, is ‘vicious going, every inch of it,
and no glory anywhere. ”

Three Days is available from the W&L
Bookstore, Lexington 24450, at $7.95,
which takes into account the 10-percent
alumni discount and includes tax and the
cost of shipping.

SFG ERA EY ETT TCR ee
Mahan Award
winners named

Three June graduates and a rising
sophomore were named winners of the
Mahan Awards in Creative Writing for
1980.

One poetry award and as many as four
prose awards are presented each year by a
judging committee of faculty members in
the Department of English. The prizes
carry cash values of $200 and $150
respectively.

The awards, in their 44th year, were
established under the will of George A.
Mahan, a native of Hannibal, Mo., and a
graduate of the university during the
presidency of Robert E. Lee.

Winner of the poetry award for this
year is Jackson R. Sharman III, a freshman
from Tuscaloosa, Ala. Awards for fiction
were presented to Stephen J. McCabe of
Rockbridge Baths; L. Palmore Clarke of
Norfolk, and James R. Leva of
Morristown, N.J. Stories by all three
students appeared recently in the spring
issue of Ariel, the student body's
independent literary magazine.

 

 

 

Mike Pinney,
A Colleague's Perspective

Mike Pinney, whose tragic death
on the tennis courts a few weeks before
graduation shocked the Washington
and Lee Community, came to this
campus with a solid reputation as a
scholar and classroom teacher. The
graduate dean at Chapel Hill wrote
that he had been one of the best stu-
dents there in a 10-year span, and pro-
fessors from LSU mentioned his ability
to excite students. It was only, how-
ever, when a local Episcopal minister,
friend of us both, personally told me
that “Mike was an ideal companion to
go horse stealing with,” that I knew
Mike would be a good colleague. Very
soon the whole faculty knew it.
Everybody liked him.

It was, however, to the students
that Mike gave unstintingly of himself.
His ready wit and lively discourse be-
came legend on campus. Students
found out that learning could be both
tough and fun and were surprised at
the end of a semester as to just how
much they had mastered. Over the
past 17 years a legion of students had
the privilege of taking courses with
Professor Pinney, and they took away
from Washington and Lee the quiet
pride that they had been his students.
Their letters now fill baskets at the
Pinney house. Other students want-
ing to take one of his courses but never
quite getting around to it, know now
that they will come away from Wash-
ington and Lee somehow short. It is
common enough to say when a pro-
fessor dies or departs that he will be
missed. It is usually true. The differ-
ence with Mike is that he is missed
already—enormously!

—Milton Colvin

 

27

i i |

 

 

by Kenneth Ries

Sports Information Director

Spring Sports Roundup

Lacrosse Team Garners 10-3 Regular-Season Record, Falters in Tournament

 

The Washington and Lee lacrosse team
completed its 1980 season with part of its
post-season objective accomplished.

The Generals compiled a 10-3 regular-
season record, good for a berth in the
NCAA Championship Tournament. W&L
had appeared in the NCAA event from
1972 through 1978 before missing out last
spring; a 1980 goal was a return to the
tournament.

An equally important goal was to
advance as far as possible in thé NCAA
event. This, however, was prevented
when Syracuse University claimed a 12-4
win over the Generals on Wednesday,
May 21, in the quarterfinal, and opening,
round of the NCAA tournament.

“While we're sorry to have missed out
on further tournament play, we are
pleased with our overall season and with
having made the tournament field again,”
offered W&L head coach Jack Emmer,
who has completed his eighth year at the
University. “We lost to a fine team in the
tournament, one which was vastly
improved the second time around.” (W&L
had defeated Syracuse 12-5 in the
General's season-opener on March 15.)

Playing on the artificial surface of
Syracuse's Coyne Field, the teams battled
to a 1-1 first-quarter result. The
Orangemen took control in the second
period, scoring five unanswered goals over

28

Geoff Brent fires a shot in WLL’s 17-7 win over Rutgers.

 

a 13-minute span. A W&L rally seconds
before intermission put the score at 6-2.
Then Syracuse capped their success with
three unanswered third-quarter scores.

Emmer, who now owns an 88-31
record at W&L and a 120-37 career head
coaching mark, announced that seven
lacrosse Generals received post-season
team awards: senior goalie and co-captain
Bob Clements of Baltimore, Md., was
named most valuable; senior midfielder
and co-captain John Hooper of
Maplewood, N.J., received the award for
spirit, desire, and dedication; junior Geoff
Brent of Baltimore, Md., was honored as
top midfielder; John Tunney of Towson,
Md., as most valuable freshman;
sophomore goalie Ware Palmer of
Richmond, Va., as most improved player;
and seniors Marc Ottinger of Baltimore,
Md., and Joe Olive of Levittown, N.Y.,
shared the award for personal sacrifice and
teamwork.

LR aE eet Ae
Heavy-hitting Ellis
makes AIl-ODAC team

Thad Ellis, a sophomore who paced the
Washington and Lee baseball team with a
.393 batting average this spring, was
named to the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference all-league team and to the

American Association of Baseball
Coaches/NCAA Division III All-America
third team.

Ellis, a resident of Seaford, Del.,
becomes the first W&L General selected
to the all-ODAC baseball squad in the
conference's four-year history. He is also
the first baseball General to receive All-
America recognition.

EES Te
Atkinson, Cavalline, Gross
win top sports awards

Stewart Atkinson, Chris Cavalline, and
Ray Gross were the top recipients in the
Washington and Lee athletic department's
annual All-Sports Awards Ceremony, held
on May 22, on Wilson Field.

Atkinson, a senior from Atlanta, Ga.,
received the department's Preston R.
Brown Memorial Award as the most
valuable senior athlete. A four-year
letterman for the Generals’ track and
football teams, Atkinson served as team
captain for both squads during the 1979-80
athletic year. He currently holds nearly
every rushing record in the W&L football
record book.

Cavalline, a resident of St. Mary’s, Pa.,
earned the Outstanding Freshman Athlete
Award. He received varsity letters this
year as a quarterback on the Generals’
football team and as starting shortstop on
the baseball squad, where he finished
second in batting with a .348 average.

Gross, a senior from Stockertown, Pa.,
was honored with the Wink Glasgow Spirit
and Sportsmanship Award. A four-year
wrestling letterman, Gross holds the W&L
record for victories (82) and is a four-time
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
champion. He served as W&L team
captain this past year and was selected the
conference's outstanding wrestler of the
year.

Along with Atkinson and Gross, 26
athletes received senior certificates and
lifetime passes, given for four-year
participation in a W&L varsity sport.

The department also recognized the
W&L All-America award recipients from
the 1979-80 year: senior Stewart Jackson,
who earned his fifth tennis A-A honor at
this spring's NCAA Division III

 

 

Championships; sophomore Mike Bernot,
who won the laurel twice at the NCAA
Division III Swimming Championships;
and junior Peter Lovell, who teamed with
Jackson in doubles at the tennis
championships.

REA SRG TEE
Soccer varsity defeats
Alumni, 2-1, in overtime

W&L's varsity soccer team maintained
its hold on the cherished “Golden Boot”
on May 11, with a 2-1 double-overtime
win against the University’s alumni team
in the third annual meeting of the squads.
The varsity now holds a 2-0-1 series lead.

The alumni took a 1-0 first-half lead
before the varsity knotted the score during
the second half to send the contest into
overtime. After a scoreless first-overtime
period, Brad Poorman netted the winning
goal in the second extra period.

W&L head soccer coach Rolf Piranian
reported that 19 alumni participated, the
most since the series began two years ago.
Greer Barriault, W&L class of 1978 from
Houston, received the award as the
alumnus having travelled the farthest to
the game and as the outstanding alumni
player.

Joining him on the alumni squad were
Ken Newman, 71; Mike Schaeffer, ’73;
John Lane and Buck Leslie, "74; Murray
Holland, ’75; Ace Dods, Mark Derbyshire,
and Sandy Bishop, ’78; Todd Tyson, Bill
Stone, and Roger Yale, "79; and new 1980
graduates Buddy Bahakel, Doug Pinotti,
Doug Dorsey, John Stagmaier, Dana
Samuelson, and Doug Seitz. Dods and
Tyson served as co-captains.

RE TS
Tennis team wins ODAC,
fourth place in NCAA

Consistency has become the name of the
game for W&L tennis: consistency at
winning conference crowns and at
performing well at the NCAA
Championships.

On April 29, the Generals captured the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference team
title, the fourth time in the ODAC’s four-
year history W&L has taken the honor.

 

All-America Pete Lovell reaches for a serve in
match on W&L court.

The squad compiled 78 points to
outdistance runner-up Hampden-Sydney,
which had 6744.

In May, head coach Gary Franke and
six Generals travelled to Claremont,
Calif., to compete in the NCAA Division
III Championships, making W&L’s fourth
straight appearance in the event. And, for
the fourth straight time, the Generals
came away with a top finish by tying for
fourth place along with the University of
California at San Diego.

Team co-captain and senior Stewart
Jackson of Lake Forest, Ill., and junior
Pete Lovell of New Bedford, N.H., won
All-America honors for their outstanding
play during the year and at the
championships. Jackson was the fourth
seed in the 16-man singles championships
and advanced to the semi-finals before
bowing out. Lovell then teamed up in the
doubles competition with Jackson. They
advanced to the semi-finals of a 32-entry
field before losing to the eventual
champions. It gave Lovell his first All-
America honor and Jackson his fifth.

Other outstanding players throughout
the year were co-captain and senior David
Constine of Richmond, freshman Steve
Denny of Bethesda, and freshman Jackson
Sharman of Tuscaloosa, Ala. Those making
the trip to the NCAA Championships were
Jackson, Lovell, Sharman, Constine,
junior Doug Gaker of Middleton, Ohio,
and senior Pat Norris of Dallas.

ES AEA
Smith receives $2,000
NCAA Scholarship

Scott E. Smith, a four-year football
letterman at Washington and Lee and a
June honor graduate of the University, has
been awarded a $2,000 NCAA post-
graduate scholarship. Smith, a resident of
New City, N.Y., is the eighth W&L
student/athlete and fifth football player to
earn the award, which was initiated for the
1964-65 academic year.

“Scott has been an outstanding leader
at W&L on the football field, in the
classroom, and around the University
community,’ said W&L athletic director
and physical education department
chairman William D. McHenry. “He is
one of the finest offensive lineman we have
had in recent years; he has performed
admirably as a sergeant-major in our
ROTC program; and has done
commendable jobs as a University
Federation tutor and as a news and sports
commentator on the campus radio station.”

A four-year starter at offensive guard,
Smith earned Old Dominion Athletic
Conference second-team honors as a
sophomore and first-team laurels as a
junior and senior. Last fall he served as
team captain along with classmates Stewart
Atkinson Jr. of Atlanta, Ga., and Syd
Farrar of Blackstone, Va.

 

  

1th ee S

 

Scott Smith

29

ai aA i a i a a a a ea i

Chapter News

PALMETTO—New chapter officers are Joe Walker, ’76, treasurer; Hagood
Ellison, ’72, vice president; Claude Walker, ’71, president.

NEW YORK. The chapter's Annual
Coaches’ Dinner was held April 11 at the
Boss Restaurant on Lexington Avenue and
42nd Street in Manhattan. Attending from
the University were Athletic Director
William D. McHenry, '54, and Alumni
Secretary William C. (Bill) Washburn, 40.
Presiding over the meeting was John Ellis,
‘56, who gave the group’s official thanks to
Robert H. Ingram, ’55, for making the
dinner arrangements. After brief remarks
from McHenry and Washburn, the
featured speaker was Walt Michaels, ’51,
head coach of the New York Jets. In the
short business session that followed
Michaels’ address, perennial treasurer
Emmett Poindexter, ‘20, 23L, gave the
chapter's financial report, indicating a
sound and prosperous condition for the
New York organization. Josha Drabek, ’53,
reported for the nominating committee
and named Paul Perkins, 74, as president
for the upcoming term. Plans for a

30

 

PALMETTO—Having fun at Seawell’s Restaurant are Will Newton, ’60;
Joe Wilson, ’69; C. B. Smith, ’67; and Hagood Ellison, ’72.

 

  

reception for area freshmen who are to
attend W&L in September were
discussed.

DALLAS. Alumni from the Dallas area
held a spring barbeque on April 16 at the
home of Dr. Ham Newsom, ’63, and Mrs.
Newsom. A large crowd was on hand to
welcome the special guests, introduced by
Lee Halford, ‘69—Dallas high school
seniors who have confirmed plans to
attend the University in the fall, with their
parents. Harvey Allen Jr., chapter
president, congratulated the young men
on their decision and reported that they
comprised the record number of freshmen
to enroll in one year from Dallas. He also
reported on future activities for the
chapter, including plans for the annual fall
banquet, other alumni admissions
programs, and particularly encouraged
participation in the annual “Texans in

BIRMINGHAM—Among those attending the annual chapter banquet are
John Coe, ’25; Ross Forman, ’69; and Nelson Head, ’68.

OP eat"
© aa + ae
BIRMINGHAM—Engaged in conversation before dinner was served are
John Poynor, 62; Mrs. Sam Bloch, and Sam Bloch, ’28.

 

 

= mo ee a : a : a
4 et Ne Ee i e % 6" eo
* ee"

   

Y 238) weed 2 —

Virginia’ party for the new freshmen in
August.

BLUE RIDGE. Charlottesville alumni
held a reception before the Washington
and Lee-University of Virginia lacrosse
game on April 20. Using a shelter in the
stadium parking lot, the chapter dispensed
large quantities of beer, fried chicken with
all the trimmings, and good fellowship.
Dan Winter, ‘69, and John Watlington,
‘72, made the arrangements for the day.
And with the single keg left after the
game, the group also succeeded in easing
the disappointment of W&L’s loss to an
excellent Virginia squad, at that time
ranked first in the nation.

PALMETTO. Columbia alumni held
their annual business meeting and dinner
on Wednesday, April 23, at Seawell’s
Restaurant. Joe Wilson, ‘69, presided over
the meeting and called upon John Folsom,

 

 

 

PENSAC OLA—Having cocktails at the Pensacola Country Club before
dinner are Scott Rickoff, °73; Chris Hart, 68; and Dave Johnson, ’68.

    

Ea Re ee

PENSACOLA—Among those present to hear Buddy Atkins’ talk are Miner
Harrell, °71; Julian Walthall, 69; and Pinky Bach, ’28.

‘73, to report on the fine results of the
alumni admissions committee’s work in the
area. Assistant alumni secretary Buddy
Atkins, ‘68, gave a short report on the
status of new developments at the
University and answered questions. New
officers elected for the coming year are
Claude Walker, ’71, president; Hagood
Ellison, ’72, vice-president; and Joe
Walker, ’76, secretary-treasurer.

BIRMINGHAM. Washington and Lee
alumni gathered for the annual chapter
banquet on Thursday, April 24, at The
Club. President Frank Young, 63, made
arrangements for cocktails and dinner and
paid a special tribute to Mrs. Young for
providing floral centerpieces at every
table. Special guests included several
young men from the area who plan to
enroll at W&L in September. The
program consisted of a report on the
University by assistant alumni secretary

 

  

  

HIN

pase

Dont 3 ea
ine oY

Buddy Atkins, 68. Development associate
for the area, Milburn Noell, 51, ’54L,
Mrs. Noell and Mrs. Atkins were among
the visitors who enjoyed the special
hospitality of the Birmingham chapter.

PENSACOLA. Alumni from the Florida
panhandle and south Alabama gathered at
the Pensacola Country Club for a dinner
meeting on Friday, April 25. Chapter
president Bob Hart, ’63, assisted by Dave
Johnson, 68, planned and directed the
meeting. Special guests introduced were
Milburn Noell, 51, 54L, development
associate for the area, and Mrs. Noell,
Mrs. Buddy Atkins, and Charles Sherrill
Jr., son of Charles Sherrill, 60, who is
enrolling at W&L in September. Assistant
alumni secretary Buddy Atkins, 68, spoke
briefly about University activities and then
answered numerous questions from the
audience.

MOBILE—The topic at the cocktail buffet was the old days at WoL among
Wes Pipes, 64; Tommy Bear, ’71; and Fred Granade, ’75L.

 

   

   

;

MOBILE—Present for the cocktail buffet at the Country Club of Mobile
are Jodie Little, 65; Mrs. Little, and Gossett McRae, 27.

= = :

 

 

MOBILE. On Sunday, April 27, area
alumni gathered at the Country Club of
Mobile for a cocktail buffet. A delightful
setting for the party was provided by the
club manager, Bud Ambercrombie, who
decorated the room with part of his
immense collection of Robert E. Lee
memorabilia. A pianist who included the
WL Swing as part of his repertoire, and a
sign of greeting from the VMI alumni of
Mobile (left behind from an earlier
meeting) also added to the atmosphere.
Mac Patrick, ‘60, chapter president,
introduced the guests, Milburn Noell, 51,
‘S4L, and Mrs. Noell, Buddy Atkins, 68,
and Mrs. Atkins, and thanked
Ambercrombie for his special attention.
The program consisted of a slide
presentation followed by a brief period for
questions. Special note was taken by the
group of the recent increase in applications
for admission to W&L from young men in
Mobile.

31

aii aa a

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all occasions—
Christmas, birthdays, graduation, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in memory
of John Graham, ‘14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms
$95.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer
$80.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight charges and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

 

32

1924

STUART A. MACCORKLE of Austin, Texas, has just
returned from a trip to the Peoples Republic of
China, Hong Kong and Korea.

1925

REv. BRUCE F. GANNAWAY retired as a Methodist
minister in 1972. After a period of part-time work,
he began again as a full-time associate in June 1979
at the First United Methodist Church in Dade
City, Fla.

1929

Harry E. Gopwin, who has been tremendously
interested in preserving jazz and blues music, has
been proclaimed “Tennessee’s Ambassador of the
Blues.” The proclamation was made and presented
at the Beale Street Music Festival in Memphis on
May 17. Godwin’s title comes in the form ofa joint
resolution of the state House and Senate. In his
search for grass roots blues, Godwin has made
numerous field trips throughout the mid-South to
find old-time musicians. He has documented his
findings, making tapes of conversations and story-
telling and has recorded the pure sounds of Delta
and Memphis Blues, played by aged musicians.
Godwin is the founder of the Memphis Jazz and
Blues Club, former vice president of the Memphis
Cotton Carnival, board member of the Tennessee
Arts Commission and Memphis Development
Foundation and producer of “The Only Fair Blues
Band.” Godwin literally has hundreds of tapes and
has donated many to public institutions. He has
donated a few tapes to the Smithsonian Institution
including the last public appearance of Louis Arm-
strong, which was made at the National Press Club
in Washington.

JusTIcE LEwis F. POWELL JR. of the U.S. Su-
preme Court was one of the recipients of Rich-
mond’s Community Service Award, at ceremonies
sponsored by the Richmond Council of Parent-
Teacher Associations on May 9. The primary pur-
pose of this first recognition banquet was to give
awards to 26 past and present Richmond School
Board members.

1930

N. BAUMAN STULTS is professor emeritus at Flori-
da State University and was recently elected to the
FSU Athletic Hall of Fame. The aquatic center at
Florida State University is named for him.

CHESTER C. WINE has retired after 20 years of
service as a member of the Texas Industrial Com-
mission. He was named Texas Industrial
Developer for 1979.

1931

JUSTICE LEwIs F. POWELL JR. (See 1929.)

1933

T. DEALE BLANCHARD is semi-retired but con-

 

 

tinues as a consultant with Robbie’s Home Center
Inc. of Portsmouth, Va. He also finds time to
attend bank board meetings and play a little golf.

1935

SAMUEL J. T. MOORE JR, an attorney in Rich-
mond, has published a revised edition of his book,
Moore’s Complete Civil War Guide to Richmond,
originally published in 1973.

1936

WILLIAM M. ALLEN has recently retired as man-
ager of research and development for a division of
Chemetron, a member company of Allegheny-
Ludlum Industries. He lives in Louisville, Ky.

ROBERT F. CARRIGAN entered the U.S. Foreign
Service in 1941 and retired in 1975, after having
served as Ambassador to Rwanda and Deputy As-
sistant Secretary of Defense of International
Security Affairs. He is now a consultant in Wash-
ington, D.C.

Dr ALFRED KAHN, a prominent Little Rock
physician, received the University of Arkansas at
Little Rock’s Shield of the Trojan alumnus award.
The award is presented annually to an alumnus
who has made outstanding contributions to society.
Kahn received his medical degree from Harvard
and has been practicing in Little Rock since 1948.
He was editor of the monthly journal of the Ar-
kansas Medical Society for 24 years and was for-
merly chief of staff at St. Vincent Infirmary.

1937

PARKE S. ROUSE JR, author of several historical
books on Virginia, will begin work this summer on
a new book about the College of William and
Mary. Rouse is currently the executive director of
the Jamestown-Yorktown Foundation.

NORMAN CUTLER SMITH has recently joined Law
Engineering Testing Co. of Marietta, Ga. He is
manager of the data analysis and reporting division
of the Gulf Coast Salt Dome Project under a De-
partment of Energy contract. The contract is
evaluating the geological feasibility of salt domes
as repositories for radioactive waste.

FRANK H. YAFFE of Milwaukee, Wisc., has retired
from Universal Foods Corp. after 35 years of serv-
ice, spent primarily as corporate secretary and
director of corporate development. He and his
wife, Louise, now own a natural spring and run a
small bottling company for mineral spring water
and distilled water.

1938

Retired Navy CMDR WILLIAM H. ByRBN continues
to lead a very active life. A resident of Cobbs
Creek, Va., he is vestryman for Kingston Episcopal
Parish, vice president of the Mathews area Com-
munity Concert Association, Mathews County

Republican Committeeman and delegate, a mem-
ber of the racing committee for Fishing Bay Yacht
Club, and a racing skipper himself.

Dr ALBERT A. POLLACK is a clinical associate
professor of medicine at Cornell University Medi-
cal College. In August -1980 he will become a full-
time employee of New York Hospital and Cornell
University Medical College.

1939

FRED G. FRANCIS of Prestonsburg, Ky., has been
reappointed chairman of the Board of Bar
Examiners for Kentucky. He has served 25 years
in this capacity.

1940

PAUL B. AYRES has retired after more than 28

 

Chapter Presidents

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, '70, Smith, Robinson &
Vinyard, 117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210
Atlanta—Fleming Keefe, '61, The Keefe Co., 1900 Emery St.,
N.W., Suite 208, Atlanta, Ga. 30318

Augusta-Rockingh Ross V. Hersey, "40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980
Baltimore—William F. Rienhoff IV, ’74, Baker Watts & Co.,
Calvert & Redwood Sts., Baltimore, Md. 21203
Birmingham—Frank M. Young III, 63, 3624 Ridgeview Drive,
Birmingham, Ala. 32213

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, 69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl. Bank
of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, "74, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston, $.C.—Rutherford P. C. Smith, 68, '74L, Furman,
Jenkins & Buist, P.O. Box 10867, Charleston, S.C. 29411
Charleston, W.Va.—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, '68L, P.O. Box
2791, Charleston, W. Va. 25330

Charlotte—Lat W. Purser, 73, 1659 Scotland Ave., Charlotte,
N.C. 28207

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, "72L, 111 Maclellan Bldg.,
721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, '62, '65L, Winston and Strawn, One
First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, II]. 60603
Cincinnati—Smith Hickenlooper III, 64, Bartlett & Co., 120 E.
Fourth St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45202

Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—John H. Tisdale, ‘74, Rollins, Price &
Tisdale, 5 West Church St., Frederick, Md. 21701

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., 61, P.O. Box 344-108, Dallas, Texas
75234

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, 75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—James M. Slay Jr., 65, '71L, Constable, Alexander &
Daneker, 123 N. Washington St., Easton, Md. 21601
Detroit—James W. Large, 68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern Kentucky—John R. Bagby, ’73, 1107 First Natl. Bank
Bldg., Lexington, Ky. 40507

Eastern North Carolina—Mike E. Miles, 68, 401 Yorktown,
Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, "73, 3824 San Juan,
Tampa, Fla. 33609

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream—Mercer K. Clarke, 66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. Buckner Ogilvie Jr., 64, 11847 Memorial Dr.,
Houston, Texas 77024

Jacksonville—Harold H. Catlin, °71, Howell, Howell, Liles,
Braddock & Milton, 901 Blackstone Bldg. , Jacksonville, Fla. 32202
Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, 71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock—William F. Rector Jr., "70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205

Long Island—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., ‘41, 174 Parsons Dr.,
Hempstead, L.I., N.Y. 11550

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., "70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—Walter B. Potter, 48, 2529 Link Road, Lynchburg,
Va. 24503

Mid-South—Fred M. Ridolphi Jr., 64, 4735 Normandy Rd.,
Memphis, Tenn. 38117

Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Braid Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbreun St., Nashville, Tenn. 37215

Mobile-McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601
Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, °72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass. 02149

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, 68, 200 Carondelet St.,
New Orleans, La. 70130

New York—Paul W. Perkins, 74, 511 E. 80th St., Apt. 5E, New
York, N.Y. 10021

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, ’61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—G. Archer Frierson II, "73, Route 1, Box
236, Shreveport, La. 71115

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, '66, Abbott & McMurry, 414
Park/Harvey Center, Oklahoma City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, ‘63, 129 Le
Hane Terrace, North Palm Beach, Fla. 33408

Palmetto—Claude M. Walker Jr., ’71, 2906 Duncan Street,
Columbia, S.C. 29205

Peninsula—Phillip M. Dowding, ’52, 10 Butler Place, Newport
News, Va. 23606

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, Suite 250, 222 S. Tarragona,
Pensacola, Fla. 32573

Philadelphia—Edward W. Coslett III, "70, 35 Langston Lane,
Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, "73, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.,
Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnston, '56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219
Richmond—David D. Redmond, ’66,
Richmond, Va. 23229

Roanoke—James M. Turner Jr., 67, "71L, 2913 Lockridge Rd.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington, Va.
24450

St. Louis—Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., 66, First National Bank
of St. Louis, P.O. Box 267, St. Louis, Mo. 63166

San Antonio—H. Drake Leddy, ’71, Arthur Andersen & Co., 425
Soledad St., Suite 600, San Antonio, Texas 78205
Shenandoah—James R. Denny III, "73, The Equitable Life
Assurance Society, 1015 Berryville Ave., Suite 3, Winchester, Va.
22601

South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, 74, P.O. Box
695, Greenville, S.C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, 53, Box 1762, Santa
Ana, Calif. 92702

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr., 54, 60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531

Tidewater—William P. Ballard Jr., "73, 409 Yarmouth St.,
Norfolk, Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, 69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25701

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, '78, 2513 E. 18th St., Tulsa, Okla.
74104

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, 70, Arthur Andersen & Co.,
1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, 53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62,
Abilene, Texas 79605
Wisconsin—David R. Braun, 76, The Travelers-LHSS, 711 East
Wisconsin Ave., Milwaukee, Wisc. 53202

7617 Hollins Road,

1405 Woodland Trail,

 

33

i li a a a a a al

Class Notes

years in the engineering department of Norfolk
and Western Railway Co. He lives in Roanoke.

A. LEA BootHu of Lynchburg, Va., executive di-
rector of the Virginia Foundation of Independent
Colleges, was chosen to receive the Virginia State
Chamber of Commerce Special Service Award for
1980. Ceremonies in his honor took place at the
Chamber's annual meeting banquet in Williams-
burg on May 19. Booth has directed the VFIC
fund since its beginning in 1953. During its 27 year
history, the foundation has distributed $23.6 mil-
lion to its member colleges. Before joining VFIC,
Booth was a reporter for the Danville Register,
served with the United Press in New York City
and was press and radio chief for the southeast
region of the U.S. Dept. of Agriculture in Wash-
ington. He then returned to Virginia, where he
was director of public relations and assistant pro-
fessor of journalism at Washington and Lee. During
World War II, Booth served in the Navy and was
on the staff of Adm. William F. Halsey.

ROBERT A. DEMENTI was recently featured in the
Richmond News-Leader. Dementi heads the lar-
gest photographic studio in Richmond, Dementi-
Foster Studio—a Richmond institution dating back
99 years.

SYDNEY LEWIS, along with his wife, Frances, was
among the recipients of the Richmond Community
Service Awards at a banquet sponsored by the
Richmond Council of Parent-Teacher Associations
on May 9. The Lewises, who have been generous
benefactors of art and education, received a stand-
ing ovation when accepting the award for “out-
standing contributions to the community.”

1943 |

ROBERT C. MEHORTER, a vice president of the
Home Insurance Co. in New York, has been elect-
ed chairman of the New York Property Insurance
Underwriting Association. He has served on the
New York Property board in past years. At the
Home Insurance Co., Mehorter is responsible for
government and industry affairs. He has been with
the company since 1947. During World War II
Mehorter served as a captain in the Marines. He is
active in community and church affairs in Fan-

wood, N.J.

1947

FRED R. COOVER JR. is in finacial management
and investments in Baltimore, Md. Among his
civic activities, he is with a Masonic organization
known as the Royal and Select Masters, the
Scottish Rite of Baltimore; he is state historian on
the Maryland Society; and is a member of the Sons
of the American Revolution.

1948

J. RANDOLPH TUCKERJR., Judge of the Richmond
Circuit Court, expects to retire from the bench
July 1, 1980. Tucker, a sixth-generation lawyer,

34

was appointed to the bench in 1968. He is one of
three Richmond judges who hear only criminal
cases. Tucker served four terms in the House of
Delegates. He was a member of the Gray Com-
mission, which was appointed after the 1954 Su-
preme Court decision that prohibited public school
segregation. Tucker received the Silver Star,
Bronze Star and Purple Heart while serving in five
European campaigns during World War II.

1949

EDWARD P. BERLIN JR. has been elected vice
president of Waynesboro Publishing Co., publish-
ers of the daily News-Virginian. He was also elected
a director of the Virginia Press Association.

RICHARD S. COOLEY is chairman of the math-
ematics department at Buckley School in New

York City.

TAIT TRUSSELL is now senior vice president of the
American Forest Institute.

1950

GEORGE W. (TuT) GINN lives in Los Angeles,
Calif. , and is doing consulting work in geology. He
just returned from visits to Tahiti and Bora Bora.

RICHARD E.. HoDGEs, chairman of Liller Neal
Weltin Inc., Atlanta advertising and public rela-
tions agency, was recently elected the first presi-
dent of the newly-established Public Broadcasting
Association of Greater Atlanta Inc. In June 1980,
he is retiring from the national board of directors of
the Public Broadcasting Service (PBS) after more
than six years of service. Long involved in a variety
of charitable, educational, health care, religious
and professional activities, Hodges was honored
by the Public Relations Society of America at its
1979 national conference in St. Louis with its
coveted annual Paul M. Lund Award for Public
Service.

Ray S. SMITH JR. is running for reelection to the
Arkansas House of Representatives. A Hot Springs
attorney, Smith has a long list of activities in the
House. He is currently chairman of the House
Education Committee, vice chairman of the Rules
Committee, and a member of the State Agencies
and Governmental Affairs Committee. He was first
elected as Speaker of the House in 1971 and as
House majority leader in 1973. Smith has also
served as chairman of the Joint Budget Committee
(1968) and as chairman of the House Revenue and
Taxation Committee (1969). He is currently on the
Southern Regional Education Board and also on
the Arkansas Commission on Interstate Coopera-
tion. In 1971 Smith became the first Arkansas
resident to be elected chairman of the Board of
Governors of the Council of State Governments.

1951

Joe. H. Berry has retired with the rank of captain
from the U.S. Navy after 30 years of service.

   

S. B. Hollis, ’51

SAMUEL M. HAIRSTON of Rocky Mount, Va., has
become the newest judge in the 22nd judicial
circuit and took his seat on the bench effective
March 31, 1980. Judge Beverly A. (Monk) Davis,
‘51, administered the oath while the family Bible
was held by Henry Hairston, "79, son of the new
judge. Victor Millner, ’54, 60L, representing the
Pittsylvania Bar Association, presented the judicial
robe to Hairston. A reception was held in Chat-
ham Hall following the ceremony.

SAMUEL B. HOLLIS, president of Federal Com-
press & Warehouse Co. in Memphis, Tenn., was
elected president of the Cotton Warehouse As-
sociation of America at the close of its convention
in San Antonio, April 19, 1980. Hollis was vice
president of the association in 1979-80 and chair-
man of the ways and means committee. Hollis is
also vice president of National Cotton Council and
is president and a member of the board of directors
of Southwide Inc., Delta & Pine Land Co., and
Southwide Farm Management Co. He is chairman
and a member of the board of directors of L. P.
Brown Co. Inc. and is a member of the board of
directors of First Tennessee National Corp. and
Mid-South Title Insurance Corp. Hollis is a past
president of the Memphis Area Chamber of Com-
merce, a past chairman of the United Way cam-
paign and a past president of the Phoenix Club and
Boys Club of Memphis.

BURTON L. LITWIN is vice president and general
counsel for Belwin-Mills Publishing Corp. In
addition, he is co-producer of a major Broadway
musical based upon the life and music of Duke
Ellington. The play will open next season at the
Kennedy Center in Washington, D.C., and then
open on Broadway in February 1981. Litwin lives
in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

WILLIAM S. (BILL) Rosasco III, president of Santa
Rosa Lumber Co., Happy Homes Inc., and
developer of shopping centers throughout north-
west Florida, won the presidency of the Demo-
cratic Party's County Chairman’s Organization.
Rosasco promised a “grass roots” approach for the
organization, which is comprised of the Democratic
Committee’s elected chairpersons in Florida’s 67
counties. Rosasco is himself the elected chairman
from Santa Rosa County.

1952

CHARLES B. CASTNER has recently been promoted
to manager of the news service in the Corporate
Communications Department of the Family Lines
Systems, a combination of the Seaboard Coast
Line and the Louisville and Nashville Railroads.

JOHN AUSTIN HUNT, after three years as admini-
strative head of special programs, has returned to
full-time teaching in the English department at
the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.

1953

DANIEL STICKLEY JR. has been reelected presi-

 

 

   

f;

R. K. Brack Jr., 59

dent of Rockingham Savings and Loan Association
in Harrisonburg, Va. He has also just completed a
year as president of the Virginia Farm & Power
Equipment Dealers Association.

1954

H. GORDON LEGGETT has been promoted to the
newly-created position of secretary of Leggett De-
partment Stores, based in Lynchburg. He will
continue in his position as vice president of per-
sonnel and public relations.

1958

HuGu B. Sprout III of Staunton, Va., is a broker
and owner of Air Land Real Estate Co. He is also
president of the Staunton-Augusta County Board
of Realtors. He and his wife, Ann, have two chil-
dren.

FREDERICK H. (TED) TARR has been reelected to
the Board of Selectmen in Rockport, Mass. He has
also served on the planning board.

1959

REGINALD K. BRACK JR, associate publisher of
Time Magazine, has been appointed publisher of
Discover, the new monthly science magazine that
Time Inc. will launch in October 1980. Brack had
been Time’s associate publisher since 1976 with
responsibilities for all the magazine’s publishing
operations. He joined the magazine’s staff in 1962
and during his 18-year career has held a variety of
advertising sales positions in Chicago, St. Louis
and New York, including three years as New York
divisional sales manager. He was named advertis-
ing sales director of Time International in 1971. In
1974, he became world-wide advertising sales di-
rector. Brack is a director of the Center for Trans-
portation Policy Research of the University of
California and chairman of the board of trustees of
the Foundation for American Communications.

THOMAS H. BROADUS JR. has been elected vice
president of the T. Rowe Price Growth Stock
Fund. Broadus joined T. Rowe Price, the Balti-
more-based investment research and counseling
firm, in 1966 and is a vice president and director of
the firm. A senior investment counselor, he man-
ages some of the firm’s major pension, profit shar-
ing, and endowment accounts and also serves as a
member of the growth stock fund’s advisor com-
mittee. In addition, Broadus is an adjunct assistant
professor of business administration at Loyola Col-
lege and a member of the Baltimore Security
Analysts Society.

JAMES C. GOARis a C.P.A. with the firm of Goar
and Endries in Sarasota, Fla. He is currently
president of the Gulf Coast chapter of the Florida
Institute of C.P.A.’s.

1960

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN is employed as a man-
ager in the real estate investment department with

Aetna Life & Casualty Insurance Co. in Hartford,
Conn. He and his wife, Kathy, and their two
daughters live in Simsbury.

THOMAS W. GILLIAM JR is president of the newly-
formed Petroleum Funding Corp. located in
Charlottesville. The firm provides specialized fi-
nancing to the Appalachian oil and gas industry.

1961

J. CARTER Fox has been elected executive vice
president of the Chesapeake Corp. of Virginia, a
paper company in West Point, Va. Fox joined
Chesapeake in 1963 as a project accountant. After
holding several other positions he was named vice
president for corporate planning and development
and assistant treasurer in 1974. In 1979 he became
senior vice president.

WILLIAM F. ROBERTSON III, a practicing attorney
in Greenville, S.C., is president-elect of the South
Carolina Trial Lawyers Association and serves as
chairman of the Ethics Committee of the Green-
ville County Bar Association. Robertson, an out-
standing swimmer while at Washington and Lee,
still remains active in competitive swimming. In
1974 he won the Masters Championships in the
100- and 200-yard freestyle at the Hall of Fame
Pool in Fort Lauderdale, for the 34-39 age group.
He plans to return in 1980 to try a repeat in the 40-
44 age group. Robertson is married to the former
Merry Gibson, and the couple have four children.
Both Robertson and his wife hold pilot licenses.

Dr. Davin R. SHENSA is a partner in a doctors
group, Zubrow, Shensa, and Kahn Associates in
Pittsburgh, Pa. The group specializes in oral and
maxillofacial surgery. Shensa is chairman of the

 

Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery and
the Department of Denistry at the Central Medical
Center and Hospital.

1963

DAvID R. GROGAN is vice president and general
manager of Rubbermaid Applied Products Inc., a
subsidiary of Rubbermaid Inc. He and his wife and
two children live in Statesville, N.C.

KEN C. KOWALSKI is in his second year in the life
insurance busines after 12 years in public educa-
tion. Residing in Lynchburg, he is division chair-
man and on the board of directors of the United
Way of Central Virginia.

Last summer, PAUL G. MCBRIDE opened a branch
of Heinold Commodities Inc. in Huntsville, Ala.
He deals in securities as well as commodities.
McBride and his wife, Jane, have four children.

J. RicHarD UHLIG II works for the real estate
subsidiary of McCormick & Co. Inc. in Baltimore
as manager of its office buildings development and
operations section. He was recently elected to the
board of directors of the National Association of
Corporate Real Estate Executives.

1964
MICHAEL E. LEVIN is a practicing attorney in
Lakewood, N.J. He is a former mayor of Lakewood
and is currently a member of the board of directors
of the Garden State Bank of Ocean County.

MICHAEL SHEFFEY has been elected president
and chief executive officer of Southeast National
Bank of Orlando. He recently graduated from the
executive program of the University of Virginia.

1965

ROBERT C. DEVANEY, manager of the semi-sub-
mersible drilling vessel Zapata Lexington, has re-
cently begun an off shore drilling program off the
east coast of Trinidad. Prior to this he was in La
Ceiba, Honduras, for a two-well drilling program.
He is employed by Zapata Off-Shore Co. of Hous-
ton, Texas.

RONALD J. KAYE has been promoted to the rank of
colonel in the Marine Corps and is a military judge
serving as chief circuit judge for the Sierra Judicial
Circuit. He lives in Carlsbad, Calif.

1966

WILLIAM D. ANDREWS is in his fourth year as
probation officer for the U.S. District Court, Wes-
tern District of Virginia. He is also secretary and
treasurer of a six-state regional probation officer
association. Andrews also is active in little league
sports. He and his wife, Vesta, and two children
live in Abingdon, Va.

Dr T. TopDD DABNEY is practicing ophthalmology
35

i MN i

 

     

     

D. A. Glocker, ’67

D. E. Williams, ’68
in Richmond, Va.

Dr Davw E. FLEISCHER is staff gastroenterolo-
gist at the Washington Veterans Administration
Medical Center and an assistant professor of medi-
cine at George Washington University. He has
begun a study to assess the use of lasers to control
gastrointestinal bleeding without surgery.

1967
BIRTH: MR and MRs. ROBERT B. PRIDDY, a
daughter, Caroline Copper, on April 19, 1980, in
Buffalo, N.Y. Priddy will become the director of
development at St. Christopher's School in Rich-
mond from a similar position at the Nichols School
in August 1980.

EDWARD N. BEACHuM, head of the English de-
partment at Darlington School in Rome, Ga., was
honored by a dedication in the 1980 yearbook.
Beachum and his wife, Mary, have a four-year-old
son, Robbie, and have just adopted a daughter,
Julia Niven.

Dr Davin A. GLOCKER, assistant professor of
physics at Rochester Institute of Technology, has
been selected by his peers and students as one of
four recipients of the Eisenhart Award for Out-
standing Teaching. He is an advisor for fourth-year
physics students and has been a visiting scientist
with Xerox Corp. The Eisenhart Award is RIT’s
highest recognition for faculty achievement.
Glocker holds the M.S. from the College of William
and Mary and his Ph.D. from Clemson University.

Davib W. OGILvy is vice president of the Arizona
Bank in Phoenix, responsible for corporate lending
and correspondent bank relations. He is on the
board of directors of the Men’s Art Council of the
Phoenix Art Museum.

Dr. WILLIAM H. SLEDGE is associate director for
graduate education in the psychiatric department
of the Yale University School of Medicine and a
candidate in the Western New England Institute
for Psychoanalysis. Sledge and his wife have two
daughters, Ann Elizabeth, 4, and Margaret Rose,
2.

MARRIAGE: JAN LAANKAN, a special student at
W&L, 1966-67, and Marit Blehr on March 22,
1980. Laankan is now a lawyer in Norway.

BIRTH: DR and Mrs. DALE E. WILLIAMS, a
daughter, Miriam Louise, on March 13, 1980.
Williams completed his Ph.D. at the University of
Wales in 1978, and since 1975 has taught English
history there and at the University of Leicester.
Currently he is assistant professor of history at
Loyola Univeristy in New Orleans.

PuILip G. COTTELL JR. has completed his course
work toward a doctorate in business administration
at the University of Kentucky and plans to spend

36

 

the next year writing his dissertation.

JAMEs J. Dawson, formerly with the law firm of
Cable, McDaniel, Bowie and Bond in Baltimore,
is now at The Lawrenceville School in Lawrence-
ville, N.J., where he is the school’s treasurer and
secretary-treasurer of the Board of Trustees. Daw-
son had served as president of the Baltimore
Alumni Chapter in 1978-79. He and his wife, Mary
Louise, and three children live in Pennington,
NJ.

Eric P. MANTzZ is practicing general and vascular
surgery in Charleston, W.Va. He and his wife,
Sandi, have a son and a daughter.

F RANK A. (BUDDY) ROGERS III is treasurer of Ale-
8-One Bottling Co. of Winchester, Ky. The drink
is currently bottled and distributed only in 35
Kentucky and Ohio counties. The company is
owned by seven family members and has 36 em-
ployees. Rogers joined the company six years ago
and now runs the day-to-day operations, including
making the secret formula established by his
father.

1969

BIRTH: MR. and MBs. ROBERT G. ARMSTRONG, a
son, Kyle Anderson, on Aug. 23, 1979, in Roswell,
N. Mex.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM M. CHRISTIE JR.,
a son, Samuel Benjamin Clark, on April 11, 1980.
He joins an older brother. Christie is an associate
professor of English at the University of Arizona in
Tucson. He expects his latest book, Preface to a
Neo-Firthian Linguistics, to be published in Au-
gust. In addition to his teaching, Christie has been
recently appointed associate dean of student affairs
in the College of Liberal Arts at the University of
Arizona. His wife is the former Connie Gabbard of
Richmond, Ind.

BIRTH: MR and MRs. THEODORE J. DUNCAN III,
a son, Michael Gray, on June 25, 1979, in Okla-

homa City. Duncan is a drilling manager for Harper
Oil Co.

BIRTH: MR and Mrs. MARK M. HEATWOLE, a
daughter, Elizabeth Collier, on March 15, 1980.
Heatwole is now a member of the Chicago law firm
of Chadwell, Kayser, Ruggles, McGee & Hastings
Ltd. The family lives in Lake Forest, Va.

BIRTH: MR and Mrs. NEIL S. KESSLER, a
daughter, Karen Michelle, on May 5, 1980, in
Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: MR and MBs. WILLIAM R. WILKERSON,
a daughter, Elizabeth Collier, on Aug. 13, 1979, in
Charlottesville. Wilkerson received a Ph.D. in
history from the University of Virginia in 1975.
Since then, he has served U.Va. as special assistant
to the associate provost for research.

J. Scorr APTER of McKeesport, Pa., has been

elected a school director for a five-community area.
He and his wife, Ruth, have three children.

Davip L. DOWLER has been elected a vice presi-
dent of the Madison Fund, a closed-end invest-
ment fund listed on the New York Stock Exchange.
He specializes in energy stocks. Dowler lives in
New York.

J. Scorr FECHNAY graduated in May 1980 from
the Colgate Darden School of Business at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He is now working in Alex-
andria, Va.

Rurus D. KINNEY is an English instructor at the
University of Montevallo in Montevallo, Ala.

CHRISTOPHER P. MEYER has received a summer
fellowship from the University of Akron to con-
struct two large-scale sculptures of wood on the
campus. Timbers for the sculptures are being
salvaged from a warehouse that is being renovated
to house the University’s art department in which
Meyer is an assistant professor.

MICHAEL C. STEVENS is entering the University
of North Carolina Medical School in the fall.

BRucCE W. TALCOTT has opened a law office in
Angel Fire, N. Mex., as an associate of the Taos
firm of Weisfeld and Wallner. He is also employed
as a real estate broker for the Angel Fire Corp.

Huserr H. YOUNG JR. has opened an office for
the private practice of law in Suffolk, Va.

MARRIAGE: Bruce S. SAMUELS and Jan Booth
Epstine on May 3, 1980, in New Orleans. Samuels
is in the private practice of internal medicine in

that city.

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM A. WILSON JR. and Nancy
Lynne Chopp on April 28, 1979, in Warren, Mich.
They live in Rock Springs, Wyo., where Wilson
serves as co-director of the hospital emergency
department.

MICHAEL ALLDERDICE is counsel for regulatory
affairs of Sunkist Growers Inc. He and his wife live
in Los Angeles.

H. WALTER BARRE is a certified financial planner
with the Robinson-Humphrey Company Inc. He
and his wife live in Spartanburg, $.C., with their
two children, Blair, 6, and Bert, 3.

RICHARD DEFRONZO is a tax attorney and C.P.A.
for Alexander Grant and Co. and head of the tax
department in the Van Nuys, Calif., office. He and
his wife live in Canoga Park with their children
Matthew, 4, and Jennifer, 2.

W. WHITLOW WYATT was named secretary-
treasurer of the Cyprus Corp., aclosed-end, regu-

 

_:

   

J. B. Spence, ’71

lated investment company controlled by J. B. Fu-
qua, on Aug. 31, 1979. He lives in Atlanta, Ga.

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. VAN H. PATE, a daughter,
Margaret Wannamaker, on May 21, 1980 in Lex-
ington. She joins an older brother. Pate is associate
director of admissions at Washington and Lee.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THoMas H. WATTS, a
daughter, Caroline Wight, on July 21, 1979, in
Virginia Beach, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW J. WHITE JR., a
daughter, Elizabeth Louise, on Sept. 10, 1979.
The family lives in Greenville, S.C.

Dr. ROBERT M. G1 has been selected as director
of the honors program at Radford University in Rad-
ford, Va. He also recently received the Radford Uni-
versity Foundation Award for Excellence in Teach-
ing. In the summer of 1980, Gill expects to do re-
search at Laval University in Quebec City. He has
had several articles on Quebec nationalism pub-
lished including one in Encounter with Canada
published by the Duke University Press.

JOHN R. HEATH is a southeastern regional repre-
sentative for Karastan Rug Mills. He lives in Mari-
etta and is a member of the Atlanta Lacrosse Club
and the Atlanta Songwriter’s Association.

PATRICK L. KEEN is vice president of the First
National Bank of Dallas in the Hong Kong office
and is a director of First Dallas Asia Ltd.

CHRISTOPHER B. MuRRAyY is a principal owner in
the firm of Gaston, Murray and Wyatt Inc., manu-
facturers of furniture and architectural woodwork.
He and his wife are restoring an ante-bellum home
in Charlottesville.

JACKSON H. Ross is information systems manager
for Winston-Salem Health Care Plan Inc., a pre-
paid group policy for the 33,000 employees of
Reynolds Industries. He, his wife, Sara, and their
two children, Lisa, 7, and Tyler, 3, have recently
moved to Winston-Salem.

REV. JEFFREY B. SPENCE, formerly of Kansas City,
Mo., has moved to Richmond, Va., where, effective
April 1, 1980, he became the executive director of
the National Conference of Christians and Jews for
the Commonwealth of Virginia.

WILLIAM C. ZATTAU and his wife, Dawn, live in
Clemson, S.C. He is completing work on his Ph.D.
in plant physiology.

JAMES J. DAwSON (See 1968.)

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM T. ANDERSON and Cynthia
Anne Harms on April 26, 1980, in Arlington, Va.
Classmates Stephen Annand, Stewart Hurtt, and

Locke Handley attended the wedding. Anderson
left the Marine Corps to accept a civilian legal
position at the Marine Corps Headquarters in
Washington. His major duties are related to inter-
national law. Anderson won the 1979 John A. Mc-
Intire Navy Judge Advocate Writing Award pre-
sented by the Navy League for an article he co-
authored in the JAG Journal.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES L. GREGORY, a
daughter, Ann Mileva, on Dec. 5, 1979, in At-
lanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip L. HOLLAND, a
daughter, Lisa Marie, on April 13, 1980, in Suffolk,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWSON H. MARSHALL, a
daughter, Laura Marston, on Nov. 23, 1979, in
Lynchburg.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT M. TURNBULL of
Richmond, Va., ason, Robert Tucker, on May 13,
1980. Turnbull, formerly with First & Merchants
National Bank is now with Duplex Envelope Co.,
a division of Hammermill Paper Co., in the sales
department.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DON WEIR JR., a daughter,
Caroline Crawford, on Jan. 11, 1980. The family
lives in Shreveport, La.

Dr. MARTIN D. CLAIBORNE III has passed the
specialty boards for the American Board of Der-
matology.

T. JEFFREY DRISCOLL teaches math and social
studies at the Shipley School in suburban Phil-
adelphia. He also coaches soccer and tennis and
serves as co-director for the coming summer of the
Chase Tennis Camp at the Westtown School in
Westtown, Pa.

JAMES CUMMINGS DUSEL JR. is a doctoral candi-
date in classics at Johns Hopkins University.

LEE N. EISEN has opened a data processing con-
sulting firm, the Lerox Corp. He lives in Spring-
field, N.J.

BRIAN S. GREIG has transferred to the Austin,
Texas, office of Fulbright and Jaworski, where he
practices labor law.

Dr. C. JAMES HARLAND JR. is in his second year of
private practice in Richmond after two years at the
Naval Regional Dental Center in Orlando, Fla.

TERRY W. TYLER is an attorney with the emloyee
benefit consulting firm of Meidinger Inc. in Louis-
ville, Ky.

CAPT. MICHAEL N. WARD is stationed at Fort
McClellan, Ala., where he serves as chief of the

training division for the Army Chemical School.

MARK M. HEATWOLE (See 1969.)

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FELIX M. DRENNEN III, a
daughter, Mary Hagood, on April 2, 1980. The
family lives in Birmingham, Ala.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. REVELL LEwis III, a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth Ewell, on Dec. 24,
1979, in Parksley, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. STANLEY TAYLOR, a
daughter, Darby Anne, on Sept. 11, 1979, in
Houston.

WILLIAM P. BALLARD, an employee with Harvey
Lindsay Co. in Norfolk, Va., has been designated a
certified property manager by the Institute of Real
Estate Management.

LAWRENCE G. COHEN is associated with the firm
of Kirlin, Campbell and Keating in New York City,
specializing in admiralty law.

DONALD D. EAVENSON Jr. received his M.B.A.
from the Wharton School of the University of
Pennsylvania in May 1980. He is an assistant pro-
duct manager for McNeil Consumer Products Co.,
located in Fort Washington, Pa.

Dr. PLEAS GEYER is chief resident in psychiatry at
the University of Chicago. He holds a fellowship in
child psychiatry and is a candidate for the Chicago
Institute of Psychoanalysis.

Dr. Scott E. RICKOFF has passed the examination
for the American College of Foot Surgeons. He is a
podiatrist in Pensacola, Fla.

EDWARD J. TOGNETTI has been elected trust
council of Harris Bank in Chicago. He graduated
from the John Marshall Law School in Chicago.

1974

MARRIAGE: WiLuiaM D. KIENTz II and Anne
Carter Mason on Aug. 25, 1979, in Annisquam,
Mass. They live in Columbus, Ohio, where Kientz
is vice president and account executive of Kientz
and Co., an insurance and risk management firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. NorMAN D. FAGGE, a
daughter, Alice Elizabeth, in May 1979. Fagge is
living in New Orleans and is a geologist for Amoco
Production Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. LANE III, a
daughter, Melanie Elizabeth, on March 13, 1980.
On Jan. 1, 1980, Lane became a partner in the
Altavista, Va., law firm of Eller, Beeton and Lane.
He also serves as a board member for the Altavista
Area YMCA Inc.

VIRGIL O. BARNARD III is a revenue appraiser for
the Kentucky Department of Revenue and is de-
veloping a 225-acre farm near Frankfort. Barnard
and his wife, Martina, have a two-year-old daugh-

37

 

 

ter, Katherine.

STEPHEN M. HAGEy is a regional executive for
United Press International in Atlanta with respon-
sibility for business activity in Georgia and South
Carolina. He joined UPI at the Knoxville, Tenn..,
bureau in 1977.

JoEL L. LEGIN graduated from the University of
Baltimore School of Law in 1977. He is an associate
in the Towson law office of Thomas N. Evans Jr.

JOHN E. LoEsinc has been named weekday sports
anchorman for WCIX-TV in Miami. He is also host
for the station’s University of Miami football half-
time show.

Davip L. Moore Jr. is a financial analyst for the
treasurer s department of Alexander and Alexander
Inc. in Towson, Md. He manages cash and short-
term investments and monitors the pension and
thrift plans. Moore, his wife, Lanny, and year-old
son, David, live in Baltimore.

KEN SEAL expects to join Maryland National Leas-
ing Corp. in Baltimore upon graduation in May
from Colgate Darden Business School at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He will be a financial analyst.
Seal is a C.P.A.

1975
MARRIAGE: DARRELL W. LAPRADE and Con-
stance Mitchell on Oct. 6, 1979, in Gloucester, Va.
William Melton, ’74, was best man with Tom Con-
ner, 75, Jerome Knauer, 75, Turner McGehee,
"75, James Denny, ’73 and Charles Holbrook, ’72,
serving as ushers.

WILLIAM H. BIESEL is in Dallas, Texas, where he
is in the business of leasing retail and office space
in several shopping centers with W. H. Hunt En-
terprises. He and Douglas Hunt, ’75, are members
of the All-Star soccer team.

RONALD W. GINDER has been named supervisor
of plant personnel for the Jacksonville brewery of
Anheuser-Busch Inc. He earned the M.S.A. de-
gree in personnel management from George
Washington University in December 1978. He
and his wife, M. J., are living in Jacksonville.

WILLIAM B. HAMILTON Jp. is vice president and
trust officer of the Berkshire Bank and Trust Co. in
Pittsfield, Mass. His wife, Mary, practices dentistry
in Pittsfield and they live in Williamstown, Mass.

JOHN S. ORTON is associated with the law firm of
Barrow, Bland & Rehmet in Houston. His wife,
Kathy, is vice president of the Texas Commerce
Bank.

J. MICHAEL SHULL has been elected Common-
wealth’s attorney of Scott County, Va. His office is
in Gate City.

JAMES WILSON was named general manager of

38

News Publishing Co. on June 1, 1980, in Tell City,
Ind. He was general manager of the daily Mount
Vernon, Ind., Democrat since August 1979.

1976
MARRIAGE: T. HuNT HARDINGE III and Mona
Wallace on June 16, 1979, in Hagerstown, Md.
Dick Graham, ’73, was pastor for the service which
was attended by a large contingent of W&L alumni.

MARRIAGE: MARK R. MauraIs and Carole Di-
anne Miller on May 3, 1980, in Mt. Dora, Fla.
They live in Ft. Myers, where Maurais is a real
estate appraiser. In April 1980, he passed the state
broker’s examination and co-authored an article,
“Highest and Best Use in the Appraisal Profession,”
for the professional journal of the Society of Real
Estate Appraisers.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DANIEL E. DRENNEN, a
daughter, Katherine Alexander, on Feb. 29, 1980,
in Mobile, Ala. She joins a two-year-old brother,
Glenn Ireland. Drennen earned an LL.M. in taxa-
tion from Emory Law School and is associated with
the firm of Lyons, Pipes and Cook.

PETER R. CAVALIER was recently assigned as a
commercial loan officer in the National Division of
Fidelity Union Trust Co. in Newark, N.J. He was
also elected for membership in Delta Mu Delta, a
national honor society in business administration.
Cavalier expects to receive his M.B.A. in finance
from Fairleigh Dickinson University in the fall of
1980. He and his wife, Marjorie, live in North
Arlington, N.J.

DAvIip S. CAYER is assistant Commonwealth’s at-
torney for Arlington County, Va.

Curis J. DEMPSHER graduated from the Medical
College of Pennsylvania on May 17, 1980. He
began a residency in pathology at Walter Reed
Army Medical Center as a captain in the U.S.
Army on July 1. He is living in Silver Spring, Md.

M. BARRINGER ELLIS will graduate from the
Medical College of Georgia in June 1980. He is
entering a flexible surgical internship at the Madi-
gan Army Medical Center in Tacoma, Wash. He
completed a three-week anesthesiology rotation in
Honolulu prior to his Washington assignment.

JAY R. FRIES graduated in May 1979 from law
school at the College of William and Mary. He is
now an associate in the labor department of Taft,
Stettinius and Hollister in Cincinnati, Ohio.

HAROLD R. HOWE Jr. received the M.D. degree
on May 19, 1980, from the Bowman Gray School of
Medicine at Wake Forest University. He was
elected to membership in Alpha Omega Alpha
national medical honor society and received the
Surgery Merit Award as the most outstanding
senior in surgery. Howe was awarded a house
officer appointment for 1980-81 at North Carolina
Baptist Hospital in Winston-Salem, where he will

At the wedding of T. Hunt Hardinge III, ’76, are
(kneeling) Doug Perkins, 78; Derek Hamilton, ’77;
Paul Cromelin, ’76; Dick Graham, ’73; (standing) Ted
Desaussure, 78; Dick Councill, ’75; Bill Hoatson,
75; Roy Jones, 76; Mrs. Hardinge; Hardinge; Don
Overdorff, 76; Mark Wilford, ’76; Bill Hamilton,
°43, 49L; Mark Morrill, ’74.

take postgraduate training in surgery.

S. MICHAEL MCCOLLOCH was admitted to the
Texas Bar in October 1979. He is an attorney for
Dallas County.

DENNIS OAKLEY has been elected an assistant
secretary in the national division of Manufacturers
Hanover Trust Co. He joined the bank’s manage-
ment training program in 1978. Oakley earned his
M.B.A. at Vanderbilt University.

B. CRAIG OWENS received his M.B.A. from the
Wharton School in May 1980. He is working now
for the Trust Company Bank in Atlanta.

Gary W. SELDOMRIDGE is in his third year at the
University of Pennsylvania's School of Dental
Medicine. He is a member of the admissions com-
mittee, the ethical board, and is class president.
Seldomridge is also captain of the University of
Pennsylvania's water polo team.

1977

MARRIAGE: H. Coss ALEXANDR JR. and Eloise
Lundberg on Aug. 4, 1979. Alexander and his wife
are both medical students at Vanderbilt.

MARRIAGE: H. DENNY GAULTNEY and Sarah
Tift Skinner on June 10, 1978, in Jacksonville, Fla.
Donald H. McClure, ‘62, and Douglas A. Sco-
vanner, 77, were members of the wedding party,
and classmates Dan Aston and Bob Rathbun were
guests. Gaultney received the M.B.A. from Emory
in June 1979. He is a marketing manager in the
home market group of Coca-Cola U.S.A. and
resides in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH L. CARRERE, a
daughter, Keenan Elizabeth, on May 4, 1980, in
New Orleans.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. DOWNEY, a
daughter, Laura Corbin, on March 17, 1980, in
Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. LOWELL SULLIVAN, a
son, Jared Graham, on Aug. 12, 1979. Sullivan is
product manager for General Battery Corp. in
Reading, Pa.

RICHARD O. BOLDEN JR., a third-year student at
the University of Maryland School of Medicine, in
collaboration with two medical doctors at Sinai
Hospital in Baltimore, has published a report in a
recent issue of the Maryland Medical Journal. The
report concerns the successful treatment of a
patient with multiple sclerosis.

LANCE C. BRAMBECK, who for the past year has
been East Coast sales manager for the College
Department of Academic Press Inc., a publisher of
college textbooks, will become its biology acquisi-
tion editor in July 1980 and will be in charge of
acquiring biology manuscripts at the undergradu-

 

ate level. He lives in New York City.

MICHAEL J. BuRNS passed his comprehensive
exams in April 1980 after three years of graduate
study in cognitive psychology at UCLA. He will
earn his Ph. D. after completion of his dissertation.
Burns is presenting papers at conferences in Phoe-
nix, Honolulu and Acapulco this summer.

LT. PHILLIP J. ENRICO JR. is serving as executive
officer of Headquarters Company at Fort Myer in
Arlington, Va.

STEPHEN Q. GIBLIN graduated from Duke Uni-
versity Law School and is now associated with the
firm of Jones, Day, Reavis and Pogue in Cleveland.

B. CARL HARNISCH JR. is with Sunbelt Feed In-
gredients of Fort Worth, Texas, where he is in
grain brokerage and merchandising.

THOMAS N. KEIGLER is assistant to the headmaster
and head lacrosse coach at McDonogh School in
Baltimore. He also plays for the Mount Washington
Lacrosse Club Team.

MARK A. KRIEGER III is plant manager of a Balti-
more printing firm and coaches little league la-
crosse.

PAUL J. LARKIN, currently in Mountain View,
Calif., expects to be in New Orleans for the next
two years. He plans to clerk for the Hon. Frederick
J. R. Heebe in the U.S. District Court for the
eastern district of Louisiana for the first year and
for the Hon. Robert A. Ainsworth Jr. in the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the 5th district for the second
year.

ERNEST C. MATTOx III has been promoted to
assistant quality control manager of the Burlington
Glass Fabrics division of Burlington Industries.
He lives in Edgewater, N.J.

HENRY L. PHILLIPS III has been promoted to
banking officer at Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. in
Winston-Salem, N.C. He joined Wachovia in 1977
and is presently an examiner in the commercial
finance department.

WILLIAM H. SANDS is assistant manager and buyer
for Rheinauers, a specialty store in Tallahassee,
Fla.

DouGLas A. SCOVANNER is working in Atlanta for
the Coca Cola Co., U.S.A. Division, in strategic
planning and financial analysis. He earned the
M.B.A. from the Darden School of the University
of Virginia in 1979 and is married to the former
Mary Michels.

JAMES C. VARDELL III graduated in May from
Yale Law School. He will begin work in the fall as
an associate with the New York firm of Cravath,
Swaine and Moore.

CHAUNCEY C. WILLIAMS Jr. is serving with the

 

U.S. Air Force Judge Advocate Department in the
Republic of Korea.

THOMAS H. YANCEY graduated from the University
of Virginia Law School on May 18, 1980. In Sep-
tember, he will be associated with the law firm of
Sidley and Austin in Washington.

1978
MARRIAGE: M. DANIEL BECQUE and Francis
Marie DeSimone on Oct. 20, 1979, in Babylon,
N.Y. George L. Carson Jr., "78, was best man.
They live in Milford, Conn.

ALEXANDER H. BIsHoP IV is a management trainee
for Mercantile Safe Deposit and Trust Co. in Balti-
more. He played in the Maryland Soccer League
and has attended open tryouts held by three pro-
fessional teams.

MICHAEL CLEARY and RICHARD GRACE have
bought a house together in Colorado Springs. They
are both serving with the U.S. Army at Fort Carson
and expect to be promoted to first lieutenant during
the summer.

RICHARD S. CLEARY completed his second year at
Georgetown University Law Center. He was a
clerk in the division of judges for the National
Labor Relations Board. For the summer of 1980,
Cleary is a summer associate in the Louisville law
firm of Greenbaum, Doll and McDonald.

J. EDWARD GrRaHa~M is financial officer for Graham
Boat Yard Inc. in Jacksonville, Fla. He received
the M.B.A. in August 1979 from the University of
North Florida, where he is now working part-time
on an M.A. in accounting.

JOHN S. HUDSON is stationed at Fort Stewart, Ga.,
with a divisional air defense forward weapons
battalion. He and his wife, Janet, have bought a
house in the Savannah area.

H. ALLEN IRISH was a prosecutor for the First
Armored Division in the Bamberg Law Center.
He is a member of the Judge Advocate General’s
Corps. In May he became defense counsel in the
Ansbach regional office.

LT. ROBERT Q. JONES JR. is a platoon leader with a
segment of the Third Armored Division stationed
near Frankfort, Germany. He and his wife, Ann,
have traveled extensively in central Europe during
his Army tour.

G. Davip Low earned a B.S. in mechanical engi-
neering from Cornell in January 1980. He is now
working at the Jet Propulsion Lab in Pasadena,
Calif. He is employed in the advanced spacecraft
systems development group working on the next
generation of spacecraft for NASA, designed to
explore the outer planets.

R. BoIcE MCGREw is a loan officer at Trust Com-

pany Bank, a member of the Dekalb Chamber of
Commerce and an executive advisor for Junior
Achievement of Atlanta. He shares a house with
John N. Wall, ’79, in Atlanta.

ROBERT B. MCMICHAEL is an advertising copy-
writer for Prentice-Hall Publishers of Englewood
Cliffs, N.J. He lives in Westwood.

JEFFREY R. RICH is a member of the class of 1982
at Seton Hall Law School in Newark, N.J.

1979
BIRTH: J. MICHAEL GALLAGHER, '79, and AMY
L. GALLAGHER, '79L, a son, James Hampton, on
Oct. 30, 1979. Michael is a law student at the
University of Puget Sound. Amy works for the
Washington State Securities Division. They live in
Lacey, Wash.

MICHAEL W. BusBEYy is employed as a pricing
analyst with Wallace Business Forms Inc. in Hill-
side, Il.

JAMES S. TAGGART is a correspondent with the
Great American Reserve Insurance Co., a sub-
sidiary of the J. C. Penney Co. in Dallas.

 

In Memoriam

 

1911

ALBERT HAMDEN JONES died April 11, 1980, in
St. Petersburg, Fla. Jones, who grew up in Cum-
berland, Md., and was in the engineering business
in Florida, was co-founder and vice president of
Mills and Jones Inc. in St. Petersburg and was the
chief engineer on the construction of the Panama
Canal. The firm of Mills and Jones, founded in
1946, became the contractors of a number of
buildings in St. Petersburg and Tampa. Jones was
a past president of the Association of General Con-
tractors, where he served 14 years as labor ne-
gotiator. He was the former head of the Tampa
Contractors Examining Board.

1912

WALLACE PALMER WILLSON of Denver, Colo.,
died May 7, 1980. Willson had served 30 years in
Shanghai, China, as an importer of steel and leath-
er. He returned to the United States in 1943, after
spending two years as a prisoner of the Japanese in
the Santa Tomas Prison in Manila. He retired at
that time.

1913

STANFORD LEE FELLER, retired judge of the
23rd Judicial Circuit, died in Roanoke, Va., March
25, 1980. He was chief judge of the Roanoke Valley
circuit when he retired from that office in February
1974. He continued to hear cases for at least an-

39

 

In Memoriam

other year under special designation from the Vir-
ginia Supreme Court. Fellers had practiced law in
Roanoke for 30 years when he was appointed judge
of the former Law and Chancery Court in 1944. At
the time of his official retirement, Fellers said that
he took pride in the fact that he had been reversed
by the Supreme Court only 5 times during his 29
years on the bench.

1918

AUD EDWARD Lusk, who retired from the U.S.
Army with the rank of major in 1947, died in
Carlsbad, N. Mex., on March 28, 1980. Lusk had
spent his remaining years after retirement in both
politics and ranching. At one time he was connect-
ed with the International Minerals and Chemical
Corp.

1919

SAMUEL STERMAN DICKSON, a retired foreign
service officer with the Department of State, who
had over 21 years in service, died March 10, 1979.
Following his retirement from the State Depart-
ment, Dickson was a cattle rancher in La Jolla,

Calif.

1921

CHARLES HENRY (CHICK) HALSEY, a prominent
insurance executive in Springfield, Ill., died Oct.
17, 1979. Halsey practiced law in Alton for two
years, and in 1925-26 he taught at the Springfield
School of Law. He was most active in the insurance
business and was vice president of the Automobile
Club of America; president of Autoamerica Corp..,
and claims manager and aviation superintendent
of Lumbermens Mutual Casualty Co. Halsey was
also chief counseling deputy for the state Depart-
ment of Insurance in 1965. He retired 10 years
later. Halsey was awarded the title of senior coun-
sellor by the Illinois State Bar Association.

1925

THOMAS RODES NELSON, a prominent attorney
and civic leader, died in Staunton, Va., April 9,
1980. He was a founding member of the law firm of
Nelson, McPherson, Summers, Wood and Bishop.
Nelson was a former president and later chairman
of the board of Community Federal Savings and
Loan Association of Staunton.

1931
ERNEST EDWARD McCCarrny died March 29,
1980, in Orlando, Fla. McCarthy worked for the
evening Reporter Star, the Brewton Co., and as
publicity director for the Orlando Chamber of
Commerce upon graduation from W&L. During
World War II, McCarthy was a lieutenant com-
mander in the Navy and commanded four
ships. Following several years as a manu-
facturers representative, covering the seven
southeastern states, he was editor and publisher of
the Cupboard News for 25 years, retiring in De-

40

cember 1977. McCarthy was a past president of
the Florida Press Association; honorary life mem-
ber of the Central Florida and National Chapters
of the Society of Professional Journalism; active in
Democratic politics, and a charter member of St.
Michael’s Episcopal Church.

1932

BROOKS TRUEHEART MOBLEY, a resident of
Kirtgsville, Texas, died Oct. 2, 1979. Mobley, at
one time, was associated with the Humble Oil &
Refining Co.

MARRS WISEMAN of Charleston, W.Va., died May
9, 1979. Wiseman, at one time, practiced law in
Virginia. From 1933 to 1938 he was with the West
Virginia tax department. In 1938 he became asso-
ciated with the West Virginia Manufacturers
Association and continued as its secretary-treasurer
until just before his death.

1935

ROBERT HENRY MCCAULEY JR, former deputy
chief of the research training grants branch of the
National Institute of General Medical Sciences,
died Oct. 20, 1979. He retired in May 1974 after
30 years of service. His work was in the fields of
biology, zoology and entomology. He also did con-
siderable research in the communicable disease
center in Savannah, Ga., and had assignments
with the Pan American Sanitary Bureau in Mexico.
McCauley was an authority on the American sword
and was a member of the Maryland Arms Collectors
Association. He contributed numerous articles on
the subject of arms to various journals.

1936

SAMUEL LUTZ ALEXANDER, who lived in Fal-
mouth, Va., and was clerk of the Stafford County
Circuit Court for nearly 30 years, died March 5,
1980. Alexander was a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy
during World War II. He was a past president of
the Fredericksburg Lion’s Club and a long-time
member of the Falmouth Fire Department.

1938

SAMUEL ADAMS MARTIN, senior partner of the
Pearisburg, Va., law firm of Martin, Corboy &
Hartley and former town attorney for Pearisburg
for over 32 years, died March 26, 1980. Martin was
admitted to the Virginia State Bar in 1937. He was
a retired lieutenant of the U.S. Navy, serving in
World War II. Martin served as vice president of
the Virginia Bar Association in 1962 and 1963 and
was a member of the ethics committee, the bar
council, and the insurance committee of the Vir-
ginia State Bar. He was chairman of the board of
directors of the First National Exchange Bank of
Pearisburg and was attorney for the Celanese Fiber
Corp. Martin was a past member of the New River
Valley Industrial Commission, and served as
chairman of the board of the New River Community
College.

1941

IRA WASHINGTON BROCK JR., editor, reporter, and
columnist in a newspaper career that spanned 40
years, died March 23, 1980, in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Brock was an outstanding college football player
while at Washington and Lee and later rejected an
offer to play professional ball in order to take his
first newspaper job in Providence, R.I. He begana
career that took him to major dailies in New York,
Chicago, Memphis, Toledo, Pensacola and Cin-
cinnati. During his career Brock was a feature
columnist for ten years at the Toledo Blade. In
1960, he was accorded the prestigious National
Headliners’ Club Award for his feature writing.
Brock joined the Cincinnati Enquirer in 1970 and
handled a variety of assignments, including assis-
tant city editor, before he retired in 1978. Follow-
ing his retirement Brock joined the Pensacola,
Fla., newspapers for seven months and then re-
turned to his home in Covington, Ky., where he
completed his book, The Bells of St. Joe.

M. AMES SAUNDERS JR, retired treasurer and
chairman of the board of National Manufacturing
Co. in Memphis, died May 13, 1980. He was a
former employee of Union Planters Bank, and for
many years worked as an account executive for M.
A. Saunders Co., a Memphis securities firm
founded by his father. He retired from the manu-
facturing company in January 1979. During World
War II he served as a lieutenant commander in the
U.S. Navy. He was a member of the Memphis
Rotary Club, the Navy League, One Hundred
Club, the Memphis Cotton Carnival Society, and
Sons of the Colonial War.

1952

JOHN OWENS Moore, a prominent Texarkana,
Ark., lawyer and a former member of the state
House of Representatives and the state Senate,
died May 18, 1980. Moore was a member of the
American, West Virginia and Arkansas Bar As-
sociation, and was a World War II veteran. He was
a member of the House from 1956 to 1960 and
served in the Senate from 1960 to 1964.

1960

WILLIAM Mayo MCCANDLESS died April 15,
1980, in the Massachusetts General Hospital in
Boston. McCandless had taught several years at
Deerfield Academy in Deerfield, Mass., and later
became interested in the arts. He worked for sev-
eral galleries in the Boston area.

1975

STEPHEN ALAN SMITH is missing and presumed
dead in an airplane accident over Greenland in
July 1979. He was enroute to Frankfort, Germany,
from Oakland, Calif. , when the accident occurred.
Smith was an aviation attorney and had been named
a director of Brent’s International Inc., a firm pri-
marily involved in the export of general aviation
planes.

 

 

Fall Athletic Schedule

 

Sept.
Sept.
Sept.
Sept.

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.

Nov.
Nov.
Nov.

Football

6—Delaware Valley
13—Gettysburg
20—Emory & Henry
277—Centre
4—Randolph- Macon
18—Hampden-Sydney
(Parents Weekend)
25—University of the South
(Homecoming)
1—Bridgewater
8—Maryville
15—Georgetown

 

Sept.
Oct.
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

Nov.

RS Le eee eee

Cross-Country

27—Mary Washington
4—Davis & Elkins

HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME

HOME
Away

Away
Away

Away
HOME

11—Christopher Newport, Lynchburg,

Norfolk State
18—Bridgewater, Roanoke

25—West Virginia Institute of

Technology
1—Hampden-Sydney,
Eastern Mennonite
8—ODAC
Championships
15—NCAA Qualifying
Meet
22—-NCAA Division III
Championships

 

Away
Away

Away

Away

Harrisonburg, Va.

Away

Away

 

Sept.

Sept.
Sept.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Nov.
Nov.

Soccer

13—Washington College
Tournament

20—Mary Washington

27—West Virginia Wesleyan
1—Hampden-Sydney
5—Davidson
8—Eastern Mennonite

11—Radford

15—Gettysburg

19—Pratt Institute

22—Roanoke

25—V.M.I

29—Virginia Wesleyan
1—Lynchburg
4—-Navy

 

Sept.
Sept.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.
Nov.
Nov.
Nov.

Water Polo

20-21—Johns Hopkins Invit.
27-28—Brown Invitational
4-5—Slippery Rock Invit.

10-12—Southern League Tour.

18-19—Virginia State Tourn.

Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away

Away
Away
Away
Away

HOME

24-26—Southermn League Toum. HOME
8-9—Southern League Chmp’shp Away

14-16—Eastern Championships
28-30-—-NCAA Championships

Away
Away

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university JULY 1980

 

 

 

 

 

' Magazine o | Second Class Postage Paid
The Alumni & if At Lexington, Virginia 24450

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY And Additional Mailing Offices

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

Co. Hye H,. BP. Porter Jr

Wseainzton tiall

 

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Presents (for members and their immediate families) YOUR TRIP INCLUDES:

ee eas po * Round trip jet transportation to Athens, Greece via Trans-
: america Airlines’ wide-bodied DC-10 (meals and beverages
ay served aloft*); stereo music and in-flight movies available at a
| nominal charge; normally afternoon departure
- - - * Deluxe accommodations for seven nights at the beautiful
Royal Olympic or Chandris hotels**

   

 

October 24 0, 1980 Columbus Day Holiday * Pre-registration at hotel }
| «x %* Gala Welcome Cocktail Party with hot and cold hors d’oeuvres
Dulles Departure | * Continental breakfast daily (tax and service charge included)
x

7 q 9 Aa Dinner each evening—your choice of either lunch or dinner
- o>?wt~* (tax and service charge included)
. eo..." * Exciting one-day cruise to the islands of Aegina, Poros and

Hydra, lunch included

Exciting low-cost optional tours available

All gratuities for bellmen and doormen

United States departure tax ($3.00) included***

All round trip transfers via deluxe motorcoach with Greek
hosts, and luggage handling from airport to hotel

Welcome orientation meeting upon arrival in Greece

A FREE Visitor's Guidebook to Greece; informative
reading to answer your many questions

Plus 15% tax & service charge
Plus $117.10 fuel surcharget Per
person-double occupancy Single
supplement - $150.00

 

Norfolk Departure waits

$729.

Plus 15% tax & service charge
Plus $117.10 fuel surcharget Per

+ + +

> a

person-double occupancy Single
supplement - $150.00

» a

TThis price includes fuel increases through May, 1980. An adjustment for additional increase may be

made prior to departure. 7 _ %* Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation
ee eee ee : * Experienced tour director and hotel hospitality desk, staffed
“**Foreign arrival/departure tax(es) not included : by an on-site team of pr Ofessionals

 

For further information and reservation coupon, contact: W.C. Washburn, Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Virginia 24450 PHONE: (703) 463-9111 ext. 214

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC. 02330 GREECE: October 2-10, 1980

Name City _ ee
Address Phone

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 55, Number 5, July 1980

William C. Washburn, 40 .................... oblast apees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .................65- Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ...........c..ccc cc eec eee, Associate Editor
M. Gray Coleman, 79 .............eseeeee eens Assistant Editor
P. Craig Cornett, 80 ..............ceeeeeeee wees Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter .........cccce cee ec eee ee ene ee en ees Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ..........e cece ec cece neneeeee nena ee enenes Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Library Dedication ..............ccceceee cece seen ee eeeees 1
Welcome and Introduction ................000eeeee 3
Library and the Liberal Arts ...................006. 4
The Rector’s Remarks ..............ccceceeeeeeeeeees 1
The President’s Remarks ................00cceeeeeee 9
The Power House of Learning .................665. 11

Gift of a Portrait 2.0.0.0... cc cccc ccc ccc cece eee eeeeeeaeeees 16

Commencement, 1980 ..............00eeeeeeeee eens eee ees 18

Sons of Alumni ............ 0. cece cece eee e eee e enact ene ee ees 22

Order of Ramdoolal Dey .................ceceeeee enone 23

WL Gazette .ooc ccc ccccccce eee c cece eee e cece cece eee e eee eees 2A

Spring Sports Roundup ...............ceceeeeeeeeeee eee 28

Chapter NeWS ..........:cceceeeeneeee ee ee ee eeeeneeeenenees 30

Class Notes .........cccccccccesccsceceeceeseeeeeeseeeeeees 32

In Memoriam ........... ccc cece cece cece eee e eset eeeene eens 39

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RICHARD A. DENNY JR., 52, Atlanta, Ga.
President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Vice President

PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
W. DONALD Bain, 49, Spartanburg, S.C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.
OweEN H. HARPER, 59, Pasadena, Calif.

G. RUSSELL Lapp, 57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, 49, Greensboro, N.C.
JoHN H. McCorMackx Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM C. NORMAN JR., 56, Crossett, Ark.

obs

7

ON THE COVER: A Presidential-size 18th-century
portrait of George Washington, attributed to William
Winstanley (after the style of Gilbert Stuart), was given
to the University by the David Warner Foundation of
Tuscaloosa on the occasion of the dedication of the new
University Library in May. For the romantic historical
saga of the portrait, turn to page 16. Coverage of the
library dedication itself begins on page 1.

 

 

