CER cee a yaar eee eee
I

_ the alumni magazine of washington and lee university APRIL 1976

 

~~

oa
uw

      
     

Seen ener a etinenettte tenga tS

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 51, Number 3, April 1976

William C. Washburn, 40.00.0000... cccccccccscccecseceseeee: Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68 0.000.000.0000. ccccccceesceeeses Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel...0.0.000........ Editorial Assistants
Ry MAND. iivsicciae se oi ea Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Dean Gilliam, 1895-1976 ae eee agecar le
The Gilliam Legacy .0..0.0.0.0..0cccccccccesceceeeeeees 4
A Living Institution 200000000000 ccecccceeee, 5
A Student’s Model o.o........c.cccccceccsesecesteseeseesee 7

A Visit to Robert E. Lee oo... cccceeccccccccceseeeses 8

Virginia Convention, 1776 000... cccccccccccccccscccsseeee 14

Morefield Gift 20.0.0 le ccccccccstessceevesseeseeseeeeeeeee 20

Washington Miniatures 0000... 21

Alumni Fund Telethon 20.00.0000. 22

Estate Planning Council 20.000... 24

Chapter News ooo... ccccccccccssssesssecsssesseeceeeeeeecce. 25

BM oc aicsssscsesansecosesnectecsssesvonsecccocecc. 27

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

C. Royce Houcu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
President

VERNON W, HoLteman, ’58, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, Texas
Treasurer

WILtIAM C. Wasupurn, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

THomas B. Brancu, III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
Epwin J. Fortz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Ho tis, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy, Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.
Jerry G. Soutu, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLEs C. StieFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas Toucuton, ’60, Tampa, Fla,
ROBERT M. Wuitz, II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

ON THE COVER: Frank Johnson Gilliam, dean
emeritus, whose death on March 19 saddened the
whole Washington and Lee community. He was
one of a kind, and his contributions to Washing-
ton and Lee University were prodigious and en-
during. Accounts of his life and times begin on the
opposite page. Drawing by Ted Trinkaus.

—

 

Washington and Lee’s good, gray dean is dead. And
an era has ended.

Frank Johnson Gilliam, revered dean of students for
more than 30 years until his retirement in 1963—a man
who in so many ways epitomized those characteristics
that make Washington and Lee unique—died on March
19 in Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington. He
was 80.

He had suffered from a heart ailment for several
years, but pneumonia was the immediate cause of death.

Dean Gilliam was held in affection by generations of
alumni, many of whom have testified that he had a
profound influence for the good upon their lives.

University President Robert E. R. Huntley said:

“This University has had more than its share of
special persons in its history—but it may be that even
W&L has never had another like Dean Gilliam.” Dean
Gilliam, he added, was characterized by “complete in-
tegrity, daily concern with the needs of others, and
strong-minded devotion to high principles.”

Dean Gilliam’s confidence in Washington and Lee
never wavered. In a 1971 interview he observed: ‘“We
are so far superior to what we have ever been before, so
much stronger in our ability to meet our primary goals,

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

Our good,
gray dean:
Frank J.

Gilliam,

  

1895-1976

 

our educational objectives, that I cannot help but be
immensely pleased with the developments I’ve seen.”

Even in retirement, Dean Gilliam remained close to
University affairs. Last December, for instance, Dean
Gilliam was the first person in Lexington to learn that
John Lee Pratt, the Fredericksburg philanthropist, had
bequeathed approximately $11 million to the University,
and it was he who telephoned the good news to’ Presi-
dent Huntley, who was waiting for a call from Fred-
ericksburg.

Dean Gilliam received his B.A. from Washington
and Lee in 1917. He joined the faculty in 1926 as an
English teacher. He liked to tell how that came about.
He and Mrs. Gilliam had been working in a mission
in the Congo. A physician had ordered Mrs. Gilliam
home to Lynchburg, and accordingly he was looking for
a job in education—“‘but not in any great hurry to make
a decision,” he recalled. ‘““One night in November, the
telephone rang. It was Dr. [Edgar F.] Shannon of the
English Department. He asked if I could come up and
teach freshman English for him. I caught the five o’clock
train [the next morning] out of Lynchburg and taught
my first class at nine.” In a letter to a new W&L em-
ployee six years ago, he wrote: “In 1926, I came here for

y : elt oe
a ye &; ey el Cu ge

Ist Lt. Frank J. Gilliam in France, 1919

a three-weeks assignment. I’ve been here for 44 years.”

He was named dean of students in 1931, and shortly
thereafter began admissions work. He continued for a
number of years to teach English. From 1951 to 1962, he
officially “wore two hats,” as dean of students and di-
rector of admissions, but in 1962, at his own request, he
was relieved of his responsibilities as dean of students
in order to devote his full attention to admissions.

Dean Gilliam was widely recognized in the academic
world for his work as admissions director and dean of
students. Under his influence, Washington and Lee be-
came the first men’s college in the South to require ap-
plicants to take the College Board tests, and in 1952
he became the first representative of any Southern
school to be named to the College Entrance Examina-
tion Board’s executive committee.

Dean Gilliam established in 1928 Washington and
Lee’s highly successful “freshman camp,” an intensive
period of orientation before the start of classes; he di-
rected the camp for years. He was instrumental in set-
ting up the requirement that freshmen must live in \dor-
mitories, and he led in the development of the dormi-
tory counselor system. His leadership was also evident
in the establishment of the faculty adviser program for
freshmen, and he worked tirelessly in the planning of
Evans Dining Hall, the need for which he often en-
countered in his admissions work. He also helped es-
tablish the Publications Board, the Dance Board, and
the Student Control Committee, and he gave his full
support to the University’s non-subsidized athletic pro-
gram during its early, unpopular days.

He knew virtually all students by name and remem-
bered them when they would return to the campus years
later. He was a patient and understanding counselor and

 

English professor at W&L in the 1930s

was never too busy to take time to hear, discuss, and
help resolve a student’s problem. “It is a black and al-
most non-existent day when he can’t remember a stu-
dent’s name, no matter how seldom he sees him,” a stu-
dent wrote in 1949.

In October 1974, the Board of Trustees named a
freshman dormitory for Dean Gilliam, noting in a
resolution that freshmen “were customarily the prin-
cipal beneficiaries of his most direct concern, his first
obligation.” The resolution said it was unlikely “that
any other man ever associated with the University has
drawn to himself such breadth and depth of personal
devotion, such intense sentiments of close friendship as
he has.” The friendships were lasting, and returning
alumni beat a path to his door.

Even after his formal retirement from administrative
duties in 1963, when he was elected dean emeritus by
the Board of Trustees, he remained an active adviser of
Washington and Lee’s presidents, and he had an office
in Washington Hall until his death.

Dean Gilliam was born in Lynchburg on April 22,
1895, a son of the late James R. Gilliam and Jessie John-
son Gilliam. He was married in 1924 to the former
Louise Fontaine Johnson of Lynchburg, an outstanding
community leader who died May 27, 1973. She was as
devoted to Washington and Lee as he, and she was a
gracious hostess in her home to many students and
alumni.

After graduation from Washington and Lee, Dean
Gilliam served as a first lieutenant in the 119th Infan-
try as part of the Allied Expeditionary Force; he saw
further military service during World War II as an
Army major.

He taught for a year at Augusta Military Academy

 

 

 

At Belfield, his and Mrs. Gilliam’s home in Lexington

and then, from 1920 to 1926, was director of education
for the American Presbyterian Congo Mission. He learn-
ed the Baluba dialect of Bantu in his first three weeks in
Africa and spent the succeeding years teaching and trans-
lating textbooks.

He received the A.M. degree from Columbia Uni-
versity in 1928.

Interested in the affairs of Lexington, he was elect-
ed in 1937 to the board of the Peoples National Bank,
now the Lexington office of the First National Ex-
change Bank. He served for a period as vice president
of Peoples Bank, retiring from the board in 1972.

He was for many years a member of the vestry and
was a trustee of R. E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church.
He served as senior warden of the church and was active
in the Rockbridge Layman’s League.

He and Mrs. Gilliam developed extensive formal and
informal gardens at Belfield, the Tudor-style house they
built in Lexington in the late 1920s. The gardens were
opened regularly for Historic Garden Week in Virginia.
In 1960, the Gilliams were awarded the Massie Medal
given by the Garden Club of Virginia, the organiza-
tion’s highest award. It was only the second time the
award had been presented to a husband and wife to-
gether.

Belfield was a gathering place for both students and
alumni. Hundreds of them were entertained there at
formal occasions and, more often, at informal breakfasts.

Washington and Lee awarded him the honorary Doc-
tor of Laws degree in 1969, with the observation that
“if indeed it were possible for the magnitude of his dedi-
cation to and affection for Washington and Lee to be
exceeded, it could be surpassed only by the love and
admiration of all those to whom he will always be ‘the

 

 

    

Freshman Camp, begun by Mr. Gilliam in 1928

good dean’.”

He also held an honorary degree from Virginia
Episcopal Seminary, becoming in 1968 only the fourth
layman to be so honored in the 150-year history of the
seminary. He had previously served as a member of the
board of trustees of the seminary.

The Washington and Lee student government award
which annually recognizes “the outstanding contribu-
tion to the University” made by a graduating student
is named for Dean Gilliam. The award was established
in 1963.

In 1964, the Lynchburg chapter of the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Association presented him its
annual citation, the highest honor any W&L alumni
chapter confers, for “giving emphasis and direction to
the ennobling traditions which abide in the minds and
hearts of Washington and Lee men, wherever they be.”

In 1971, Dean Gilliam was asked by an interviewer
what he would say to alumni if he had them all together
at once. He replied:

“I would say that when everything is considered
Washington and Lee is as fine an institution as it was
when you were here, even though, thank heaven, it is
different in many respects. I see no likelihood of Wash-
ington and Lee losing its essential distinction of excel-
lence. I would say if you are inclined to complain, try to
analyze what has happened in education in America
and look at where Washington and Lee is today. You
have to accept many things which, at first glance, you
probably don’t like. Many of you think you are paying
the University a tremendous compliment when you say
you don’t want one thing changed from the way it was
when you were here. But if you had that institution un-
changed, most of you would be ashamed of it. I would

 

x
a
a
:
:
e
#
3

 

 

ROM ON MM TINA RO ROR RRO RRR ROR RRR RR RRR

 

At unveiling of his portrait, Evans Hall, 1963

try to assure alumni about what Washington and Lee is
today and will continue to be. I am optimistic about
Washington and Lee, and I glory in what it is now as
I gloried in it when I first came here."

The funeral for Dean Gilliam was held at R. E. Lee
Memorial Episcopal Church; he was buried in Stone-
wall Jackson Cemetery.

He is survived by a brother, James R. Gilliam Jr. of
Lexington; a son, Fontaine J. Gilliam of Gaffney, S. C.;
a daughter, Mrs. Robert L. Hopkins of Ashland, Va.,
and three grandchildren.

The family suggested that those wishing to honor the
memory of Dean Gilliam make contributions to Wash-
ington and Lee’s scholarship endowment, to R. E. Lee
Episcopal Church, or to Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

by Robert G. Holland, ’63

Associate Editor, Richmond Times-Dispatch

The Gilliam legacy

Ours has often been called an impersonal age in
which neighbors are strangers, government is bureaucrat-
ic, business is big, and cities are sprawling metropolitan
areas. In higher education, this syndrome is called the
“multiversity” where students are computer cards.

Let’s pause for a moment to pay tribute to one 20th
century man who was the absolute antithesis of all those
things: Dean Frank J. Gilliam of Washington and Lee
University, who died last weekend in Lexington at the
age of 80.

Dean Gilliam cared about the high school juniors and
seniors who came to his office on the beautiful W&L
Colonnade seeking entry during his more than three

   

Greeting old friends

decades as admissions director. He cared about them as
dean of students during the same span when they came
to him as W&L students for guidance or encouragement.
And he continued to care about them long after they
had left to take up careers and families, even if they
only rarely, if ever, showed up for homecoming or class
reunions.

The dean cared not in a mawkish, “let’s be bud-
dies” sense like some youth-worshipper, but rather show-
ed his genuinely Christian concern in practical, every-
day ways. He became a legend at Washington and Lee
for his ability to call virtually every student he passed
on campus by name, and to recall their names instantly
when they returned years later. They say Gen. Robert
FE. Lee had the same name-recall ability when he was
president of the institution after the War Between the
States; but then General Lee had 100 students, while
Dean Gilliam had over 1,000.

The dean’s “Freshman Camp,” a relaxed introduc-
tion to W&L life at a Natural Bridge retreat prior to
fall classes, was a typically humanistic Gilliam innova-
tion. A Lynchburg native who was a Presbyterian mis-
sionary in Africa before coming to W&L in 1926 to teach
English, Gilliam also was devoted to high academic
standards. One evidence of that was W&L’s becoming,
under his persuasion, the first men’s college in the South
to require its applicants to take the College Board ex-
aminations.

One Richmond alumnus of W&L will forever
treasure the string of personal notes he received from
“the good dean” over the course of his career, some of
them gently correcting a grammatical transgression or
a factual goof, some of them giving praise. But he will
treasure most a note that arrived a few years ago after

 

 

 

 

   

Honorary degree, 1969 W&L commencement

the dean had suffered a devastating stroke. He had
typed the message with the one finger he could use, a
process that must have been as painful as it was labor-
ious. He had gone to the trouble simply to offer con-
gratulations for some minor accomplishment. It was
typical of the man.

Lauding Gilliam’s “complete integrity, daily concern
with the needs of others, and strong-minded devotion to
high principles,’ W&L President Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley commented: ‘“‘This University has had more than its
share of special persons in its history—but it may be that
even W&L has never had another like Frank Gilliam.”

Coming from the president of a college that was
endowed by George Washington and is older than the
United States, that’s quite a statement. But Dean Gil-
liam was quite a man. His credo of personalized educa-
tion is a tradition that W&L should strive to carry on—
and that others should try to adopt.

An Editorial in the Richmond Times-Dispatch

March 26, 1976
Reprinted with Permission

by Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’46

Professor ‘of English

A living institution

So much has been said about Mr. Gilliam’s remark-
able achievements as dean of students and director of
admissions that it is sometimes forgotten that he re-
turned to Washington and Lee not to take an adminis-
trative position but to teach English. He had been a
member of the English Department for several years, in
fact, before he became dean, and for a number of

ie |

With Mrs. Gilliam in Belfield’s formal gardens

years thereafter he regularly taught courses in composi-
tion. I must be one of many, therefore, who remember
him, with gratitude and admiration, as both a teacher
and a dean.

The circumstances that led to my being one of his stu-
dents were unusual but such as to elicit a characteristic
expression of his deeply ingrained sense of duty. It was
wartime, and some two weeks into the fall semester my
class in freshman English lost its instructor to the Navy.
Mr. Gilliam immediately replaced him, without the loss
of a single meeting of the class, and I have always as-
sumed that he voluntarily undertook this responsibility
in addition to his administrative work.

Like every other member of the class I felt that a
cordial relationship with the new instructor already
existed, for of course he had greeted us individually on
our arrival in September. But I also felt that I could
claim a kind of prior acquaintance from having read his
comments on my elder brother’s reports, mailed home
four times a year, and marveled at the industry and
dedication that annually produced such comments by
the thousands. Everyone who was a student at Washing-
ton and Lee in pre-computer days will recall those re-
ports, with their large, black, rather intimidating alpha-
betical letters to designate the student’s grades, and un-
derneath, in the clear, firm, controlled hand that count-
less alumni came to recognize instantly, a personal note
from Mr. Gilliam, with its commendation, or encourage-
ment, or admonition, or whatever else, in drawing from
his unrivaled knowledge of the members of the student
body, he considered most appropriate.

To our class he brought the same conscientiousness
and concern that governed everything else he did. He
marked our essays meticulously and returned them

    

AMM SSeS S eS e es ses se 55 SS SS SSS

OR

MMAR GM aC

 

RR

ee ee at et et st St et ae tt ot a ee ae ae SS

A familiar figure on campus for 50 years

promptly, and on the outside of each paper he wrote a
brief criticism, invariably softened by a word of praise.
I cannot pretend to remember now precisely what we
did in class, but I distinctly recall that we dealt with
general and basic principles of writing as well as specific
matters of usage, and the highest compliment I can pay
to the excellence of his teaching is that I am still aware
in my own teaching of trying to employ methods I
first learned from him.

It is also a tribute to his teaching that my impres-
sions were formed during a relatively short time, for in
November the Army School for Special Services arrived
on campus, and Mr. Gilliam accepted a commission as
major in order to serve with it in a liaison capacity. ‘The
appointment was not, I think, one that he could have
welcomed, but he assumed his new responsibilities as
dutifully as he had undertaken to teach our class.

I did not again have him as a teacher, but I never lost
the feeling one has for a former professor he respects,
and like hunderds of others I continued to be conscious
of his influence and of my indebtedness to him for
numerous kindnesses. But though I did not see him in
the classroom I was nonetheless aware of his presence, as
who was not? Periodically during the day could be heard
from his office in Washington Hall a powerful voice
booming “Mrs. Brownlee!” into the intercom, making
it the most superfluous piece of equipment on cam-
pus; and early in the morning and late in the afternoon
a familiar figure, unmistakably Mr. Gilliam because
of the immense hat pulled far down over his forehead,
could be seen engaged in friendly conversation with
faculty or students.

By the time of his retirement he had become a living
institution. Throughout the University he had left the

 

Alumni never failed to seek him out at reunions

stamp of his personality in various and subtle ways, and
the evidence of his contributions in visible form: ad-
missions, freshman camp, dormitory and dining facili-
ties, to name a few of his most notable accomplish-
ments. Nor did his services to Washington and Lee go
unappreciated. Mr. Gilliam, it should be gratefully not-
ed, was not a prophet without honor in his own country,
and before his death the University had bestowed upon
him every recognition it had power to confer.

He was uniquely devoted to Washington and Lee,
and perhaps in some sense the University was the center
of his life. But he was also vitally interested in other in-
stitutions, such as the Virginia Episcopal Seminary, of
which he was trustee at one time, and the Stonewall
Jackson Hospital, in Lexington, which he was instru-
mental in helping establish. Perhaps, too, he was a
Puritan, with his deep religious convictions and_ his
strong sense of morality and duty; and he may recall no
one so much as a formidable headmaster of the nine-
teenth century, Dr. ‘Thomas Arnold. Yet to stress this
side of Mr. Gilliam is to ignore the diversity of his pleas-
ures—in games, and travel, and books, and particularly
his gardens. To the very end of his life he remained in-
terested in all sorts of things, and one of the last times
I spoke with him on campus was in the library, where he
had come to examine the shelf of newly acquired titles.

Still, the old-fashioned word character most accurate-
ly conveys his essential trait. His life was in many ways
richly satisfying, as he saw the gradual realization of his
dreams for the University, the success of his students in
their chosen careers, and the return of alumni for re-
unions, when he was always warmly recognized. But the
years also took their toll in illness, bereavement, and the
loneliness of advanced age; and these Mr. Gilliam en-

 

 

 

 

ee)

vA

 

Presenting the first Gilliam Award, 1963

dured with characteristic patience, fortitude, and cheer-
fulness.

He was to all of us an extraordinary person, and as I
write these words I am irresistibly reminded of one of
his favorite expressions, used to denote something so ut-
terly different and distinctive as to be unique—suz
generis. ‘To everyone who knew him, Frank Johnson
Gilliam was himself suz generis.

by Leland McCullough III, ’76
President of the Student Body

A student's model

The purpose of a Washington and Lee education is
to teach young men to be gentlemen as well as scholars.
And as significant as it may be for a student to learn
an academic subject under a professor who is well
versed in his field, it is just as important for the W&L
student to cultivate the virtues and amenities of a gen-
tleman by having a proper model to pattern his life
after.

Dean Gilliam was a man who had all the attributes
of a gentleman, and because he practiced what he
preached, he was the perfect model for us to emulate.
The Dean’s students never saw him without a coat and
tie, and we felt uneasy in his presence unless we, too,
looked like gentlemen. The Dean’s love for us inspired
us in our efforts to live up to his expectations. And it
would hurt inside to know that we had disappointed
him, for the Dean had given us so much of himself that
we never wanted to let him down.

The Dean showed his Christian love and concern
for his students as individuals by trying to get to know as

 

“. . no other like Frank Gilliam.”

many of us as possible. In his last two years, he had
trouble remembering the names of a few students, but
he never forgot a face. Quite often the Dean would in-
vite a young man to Belfield for conversation over lunch
or dessert, checking at intervals to see if he were impos-
ing on his guest’s time.

The Dean kept a close watch on “his boys,” being
quick to praise us for our achievements and careful to
correct us on points of grammar or gentlemanly be-
havior in a fatherly way, which somehow always drew us
closer to him.

Never possessed of a loose tongue or an unkind word
to pass on about anyone, the Dean was a friend we could
go to in confidence whenever we had problems or just
wanted a little helpful advice.

Dean Gilliam lived to serve his students, and in an
unassuming sense, he wished that his life might be used
as an example from which we could learn to develop the
qualities that are found in a gentleman—honesty, integ-
rity, selflessness, modest pride in one’s manners and ap-
pearance. Any man who has been exposed to the “Wash-
ington and Lee experience” must admit that although
we are urged to strive for these ideals, rarely do we find
among us one who has been able to attain to a high
degree all the characteristics which typify the W&L gen-
tleman. More than an example for us to follow, the
Dean was our standard. He maintained Washington and
Lee’s fine reputation and hoped that his students would
carry on that same tradition long after he was gone.

Caring for us to the very end, the Dean made the
following statement to one of his students just days be-
fore he died: ‘No matter what happens to me, I know
you boys are going to turn out all right. I’ve entrusted
you to the Lord.”

 

by George C. Scott

 

‘Notes on
a visit to — me
Robert E. i eggur 3 tt ; : 7
on ! | |

4 &
i é = ; ; ; 7 =
q eee. i eA } : } 1 “in i ; 7
ee * eae | E ho i ' ree

 

Main Street, Lexington . . . today (photo by Thomas
C. Bradshaw II)

 

This is Main Street, Lexington, Virginia.
On Sept. 19, 1865, a big, sandy horse with
a dark mane and tail strode effortlessly down
this street. He carried a tall, stooped man
with a pearl-white beard who might have
been taken for a farmer—the muddy boots,
the faded, literally colorless riding coat, the
sweat-brown, broad-brimmed hat.

But he was not an ordinary citizen bent
on some mundane domestic chore. Neither
ordinary—nor a citizen. Neither was his
mission commonplace.

ae to

   

  

ee wae?

 

Main Street, Lexington . . . 1890 (Michael Miley Collection,

W&L)

 

This essay was written by George C. ub
Scott, the Academy Award-winning actor who mm : : } ¥ Zee
is also a serious Robert E. Lee scholar. Pe) te it {By aN or ed
: 2 i th Be a .

“Notes on a Visit to Robert E. Lee” was eee a gains ly FA :
developed as a feature shown by NBC-TV on
the Today show April 9. Most of the filming
was done on the campus of Washington and
Lee University; Lee was president of the in-
stitution (then Washington College) from

1865 until his death in 1870. Scott gave : oF AR ae
Washington and Lee permission to repro- ey eee Sag ie ie ;

a
1
a

° ° ae Ps at yee é po! an aur. AT g
duce his script. Robert Edward Lee on Traveller, the “big, sandy horse” . . . 1867,

Rockbridge Baths (Miley photo)

 

 

He was Robert Edward Lee: late hero of
the Mexican conflict; late construction en-
gineer of the vast Mississippi dock complexes
around St. Louis; late superintendent of West
Point; commanding officer of the 2nd Cavalry
against the Apache on the Texas frontier;
captor of John Brown at Harper's Ferry;
commanding general of the Army of Northern
Virginia throughout one of the bloodiest
and most vicious civil wars in the his-
tory of modern man; general-in-chief of the
armies of the foredoomed Confederate States

of America.

But these challenges and accomplishments
were in the past.

On that pleasant fall morning, 11 years
before America would celebrate her Cen-
tennial year, R. E. Lee was about to become
president.

Obviously, and some say unhappily,
the presidency was not that of the United
States. Rather, it was as chief administrator
of tiny, impoverished Washington College
that Lee had come to serve.

He was a paroled prisoner of war under
indictment for high treason. Reviled by many
as the Prince of Rebellion, he was totally
disenfranchised—unable either to vote or to
hold any public office.

 

 

 

   

    

* “Ch, ae

*
‘ee

 

pe

 

di - : .,
Lieut. R. E. Lee, 1828 (portrait by West; Washington and Lee collection);
Lee as superintendent at West Point, 1852-55 (copy portrait painted ca. 1931
by Burdette; Washington and Lee collection); Lee in Richmond, summer 1865,
just before coming to Lexington (photo by Mathew Brady).

 

Actor-Lee scholar George C. Scott, filming on the
Colonnade.

SERRE RES PS ANA EE RS CRON BE NE Nc ATR RRO A AR MR ot 8 GG Se a

But he was also beloved to the point of
mythology by millions of his countrymen—and
among these were the trustees of Washington
College. They borrowed the train fare and
a suit of clothes to send Judge J. W. Brocken-
brough to offer this house as a residence, the
chair of president and an annual salary of
$1,500.

Broken in health and fortune, looking a
decade older than his 58 years, Lee was
apprehensive to accept. He knew very well
his years were waning. But he wanted
desperately to be of use to what he always
termed the “rising” generation of his country.
And when Judge Brockenbrough insisted
that his acceptance would “evince a mind
superior to despair,” he gratefully agreed.

About the only recreation President Lee
enjoyed during those last few years was tak-
ing daily rides through the surrounding
countryside on that great grey horse,
Traveller. One of the places he visited fre-
quently was the hillside graveside of Thomas
J. “Stonewall” Jackson.

Prior to the war, Jackson had been a pro-
fessor at nearby Virginia Military Institute.
Lee probably stood at that grave and spoke
quietly to his eccentric, strait-laced old com-
rade. Jackson, even to this day internationally
recognized as one of the profound tactical
geniuses of all time, was known to some of his
men as “School Marm.”

And Lee probably joked softly with him
that they were both school marms now.

Undoubtedly, since they were religious
men, Lee knelt here and prayed for both
their souls. And he probably assured “Stone-
wall” that they would be united again
before very long.

10

 

 

Ses

ompleted in 1844 (Miley photo)

3

 

: ps ff
4 Be - r
P * 5
7 e ,

At the original site of Stonewall Jack-
son’s grave

 

Ry eae A a -_ “ £ J A ‘ a

Statue of Jackson (in Stonewall Jackson Cemetery) . . .
dedicated in 1891 (Miley photo)

 

  

 

 

But bitterness and morbidity were foreign
to Lee’s nature. And so was looking back-
wards. He worked diligently, even in rapidly
failing health, and the college prospered—
three days after his death becoming Wash-
ington and Lee University.

He designed this new President’s House,
and he and his son Custis supervised the con-
struction of this building. The wide verandas
on three sides were for the convenience
of Mrs. Lee’s “rolling chair,” as they termed
it, since she was an invalid. There was ex-
perimental central ventilation, and gravity-
forced water from a cistern on the roof.

And Traveller had a new home in an
adjoining brick outbuilding. He must have
been grateful, since souvenir hunters had so
ravaged his mane and tail that he resembled
a plucked duck more than a dignified old
warhorse.

This building, however, as far as Lee was
concerned, was the focal point of the college.
This is the “new” chapel which he designed.

In the chapel basement, he fashioned and
furnished this office—loved it—and worked
in it up until the morning his terminal ill-
ness overcame him. It is preserved as he left it.

 

-

The “new” President’s House, soon after its completion in 1868 (Miley photo)

 

Lee Chapel today . . . built under Lee’s

supervision in 1867; now a National Historic
Landmark

® “ sa . &
5 ‘ bs —
ee

Scott in Lee’s office . . . preserved as Lee left it.

11

 

ERRMSG DEE TERR MB Mh eb SEG ek a gy vid nar mR pc oars
At breakfast with his son Robert on the

morning of his murder, Abraham Lincoln

looked at a portrait of Robert E. Lee and said,

“It is a good face. I am glad the war is
over at last.”

It was indeed a good face. Was it not—
indeed, is it not still—the face of a good man?

 

“A good face”: R. E. Lee, January 1870... the last
photograph (Miley photo)

Edward Valentine, who had sculpted a
likeness of Lee from life, said: “An artist,
above all other men, is quick to observe the
faintest suggestion of posing. The slightest
indication of movement or expression that
smacks of vanity, he is sure to detect. Such
weaknesses (which, as far as I know, are
shared by many who are called great ones of
the world) were totally lacking in General /
tae yy =

 

Pr SINT
PHO OK Ke

.
—. me at : , »
SORT OO Va IA

LS

2
ee

WA

 

fo\ fo oN ON dy oe
Sata }

StL ATALAL ALS

oN

Cee

Ler fase
baa Sasa)

Ks

 

The apse of Lee Chapel, prior to its 1962-63 restoration. In the back-
ground: Edward Valentine’s famous Recumbent Statue of Lee asleep
on the battlefield (dedicated in 1883).

12

This is Bicentennial America.

This is Election-Year America.

This is 20th-century, thermo-nuclear, porno-
liberated, cokey-alky, oligarchy, in-order-to-
get-mine-I-gotta-grind-you America.

‘

What are you and I supposed to learn
from or feel about the world and the character
of a man like R. E. Lee?

He’s cold. We're cool.
He’s passe. We're avant.
He’s out of it. We’re up to here in it.

ee no) el
fe rs

Well, there are a few qualities this re-
markable creature had which may serve us
too, if we consider them.

a

 

~ —_ oe
. eee

Lee Chapel in the morning mist on a campus where Lee’s spirit still lives.

Patience—quiet good humor—adoration
of children—loyalty—respect for hard work—
dedication to an ideal—love of animals—
appreciation of duly constituted authority
coupled with an abhorrence of authoritarian-
ism—a devotion to history, for, as General
Lee said, “It is history that teaches hope’’—
gentleness and the aspiration to achieve
gentlemanliness—understanding of the state
of being young—courtesy toward the condi-
tional frailty of advanced age.

Acceptance of responsibility.
Personal integrity.

 

ee oes

“Gentleness and the aspiration to achieve gentlemanliness”: The Recumbent
Statue by Valentine (detail).

13

by Hampden H. Smith III

Assistant Professor of Journalism

Virginia Convention of 1776: Step by step,
the dependable framer of American liberty

“Virginia is always to be depended upon.”

It was only a few days before one of the most startingly
revolutionary meetings in the history of mankind was to
begin in Williamsburg that Elbridge Gerry of beleaguered
Massachusetts penned those words.

Two hundred years ago. May 6, 1776. As it had on and
off for nearly a year, the oldest representative body in Ameri-
ca—the Virginia House of Burgesses—tried once more to act.
But it could not raise a quorum. Lord Dunmore, the royal
governor, had fled to a British man-of-war nearly a year earlier
and had refused to return to Williamsburg. Without Dunmore
to ratify its actions, the House was impotent.

Edmund Pendleton wrote Richard Henry Lee, who was in
Philadelphia at the Continental Congress, “We met in As-
sembly yesterday and determined not to adjourn, but let that
body die—and went into Convention.”

That was it. Virginia’s colonial assembly, which first met
156 years before on Jamestown Island, simply died.

In its place rose the Virginia Convention that would
change the course of history. Before it adjourned two months
later, the Convention set in motion the Declaration of In-
dependence, formulated a declaration of human rights that
remains a bellwether of democracy, wrote Virginia’s first con-
stitution and elected Patrick Henry its first governor.

It was high time that something happened.

Ever since the French and Indian War had ended with
the Peace of Paris in 1763, England had sought to tighten its
political and economic hold on the American colonies. The
Stamp Act, the Sugar Tax, the Coercive or Intolerable
Acts—their very names bespeak the colonists’ distaste for them
—had been bitterly protested in America.

“Olive branch” petitions and memorials to king and Par-
liament alike elicited only stony silence.

Destroyed stamps and Boston Tea Parties only brought
the colonists more British redcoats and new parliamentary
schemes to tax them.

And there was war. George Washington had led the Con-
tinental Army against General Gage in Boston. Ethan Allen’s
Green Mountain Boys had taken Fort Ticonderoga. Congress
had authorized Benedict Arnold’s expedition to Quebec, an
openly aggressive attempt to make Canada the 14th colony.
And the “shot heard round the world” had been fired in
Concord, Mass., more than a year ago in April 1775. But the
colonists still sought reconciliation, not revolution.

The ostensible purpose of the Continental Congress, which

 

 

a See BE

Mr. Smith based this article on research he conducted last
The Colonial Capitol at Williamsburg was the site where summer while working with the Colonial Williamsburg Founda-
legislators voted on May 15, 1776, to adopt the Virginia tion. The article will appear in a forthcoming issue of Common-
Resolution for Independence. Changing of the flags commemo- wealth, The Magazine of Virginia; it is published here by per-
rates the date. (Colonial Williamsburg Foundation photo.) mission of that magazine and its editor, James S. Wamsley, ’50.

14

 

Edmund Pendleton of Caroline County presided over the historic
Virginia Convention. (Colonial Williamsburg Foundation photo.)

first met in Philadelphia in 1774, was to persuade George III
and Parliament to repeal the Coercive Acts and restore im-
perial relations to their more happy balance before 1763.

But England was not taking too seriously these plaints
from armed rebels. On August 23, 1775, George declared the
colonies to be in a state of rebellion.

Then, in January 1776, Thomas Paine’s pamphlet Common
Sense swept through the colonies like a brush fire. Until now,
the case for independence had been phrased by lawyers and
aristocrats in complex philosophical terms. But Common
Sense spoke sense to the common man. Its theme is surpris-
ingly familiar today: “Society in every state is a blessing, but
Government, even in its best state, is but a necessary evil.”

The conservatives could no longer hold back the rising tide

of agitation. If they urged restraint too strongly, they would
be denounced as Tories and thrown out of office. If they were
to keep the radicals from pushing through sweeping demo-
cratic reforms, they had no choice but to support war and
independence.

Yet still the colonial leaders—radicals and conservatives
alike—held back.

On May 16, 1776, Jefferson himself, one of the stalwarts
of independence, wrote from Philadelphia to Thomas Nelson
that creating a form of government “is the whole subject of
the present controversy; for should a bad government be in-
stituted for us in future, it had been as well to have accepted
... the bad one offered to us from beyond the water, without
the risk and expense of conflict.”

But many colonists now saw no hope of reconciliation.
John Adams of Massachusetts, also in Philadelphia as a dele-
gate to the Continental Congress, wrote that by “every Post
and every day, Independence rolls in on us like a torrent.”

It was the same in Williamsburg.

The 128 delegates streaming into Virginia’s colonial capi-
tal brought from their counties petitions demanding independ-
ence.

Augusta County proclaimed “the necessity of making the
Confederacy of the United Colonies the most perfect, inde-
pendent and lasting, and of framing an equal, free and liberal
government that may bear the test of all future ages.”

Cumberland County requested the convention to “abjure
any Allegiance to his Britannick Majesty, and bid him a good
Night forever.”

Buckingham County’s instructions to its delegates de-
clared, “We instruct you to cause a total and final separa-
tion from Great Britain to take place as soon as possible.”

This, then, was the scene when the Fifth Virginia Con-
vention began in Williamsburg on May 6.

Edmund Pendleton of Caroline County, one of the con-
servative leaders, was elected Convention president. He
struck the keynote of the session in his acceptance address:
‘We are now met in General Convention . . . at a time truly
critical, when subjects of the most important and interesting
nature require our serious attention . . . [in all] subjects which
may come under our consideration, permit me to recommend
calmness, unanimity, and diligence, as the most likely means
of bringing them to a happy and prosperous issue.”

It is unlikely the Convention opened with the calmness
Pendleton sought, however, for independence was in the air.

As delegate John Page wrote Jefferson, “Almost every man
here, except the Treasurer, is willing to declare for Indepen-
dence.”

General Charles Lee (not one of the Virginia Lees) was
in Williamsburg recruiting troops for Washington’s Conti-
nental Army. He wrote his commander in chief on May 10, “A

15

Virginia Convention

 

noble spirit possesses the Convention. They are almost unan-
imous for independence. . Two days will decide it.”

Lee was close. It took five days.

On May 15 the Virginia Resolution for Independence was
unanimously approved. Even the ‘Treasurer, Robert Carter
Nicholas, had been won over.

Other colonies had given their delegates to Congress the
power to vote for independence, but the Virginia Convention
was the first to order its delegates to propose it.

The resolution began with a long list of grievances and
noted the colonists’ attempts to reach some agreement with
Britain had gone unanswered. Then came the revolutionary
proposal:

“RESOLVED unanimously, That the delegates appoint-
ed to represent this colony in General Congress be instructed
to propose to that respectable body to declare the United
Colonies free and independent states, absolved from all al-
legiance to, or dependence upon, the crown or parliament of
Great Britain; and that they give the assent of this colony to
such declaration, and to whatever measures may be thought
proper and necessary by the Congress for forming alliances,
and a confederation of the colonies, at such time, and in the
manner, as to them shall seem best.”

With the passage of the resolution, Williamsburg erupted.

The celebration began, perhaps, with the symbolic act of
pulling down the British Union Jack from the cupola of the
Capitol and running up the new Grand Union flag of the
united colonies.

The bell at the Capitol and Virginia’s “Liberty Bell” in
Bruton Parish Church pealed forth the news, and the citizens
who gathered outside the Capitol greeted passage of the res-
olution with shouts, songs and general jubilation.

Two separate Virginia Gazettes were being published in
Williamsburg at the time, and both recorded the exciting
events with what seems to be an almost self-conscious pride.

One reported that the local militia “went through their
firings, and various other military manoeuvres, with the great-
est exactness.” That hardly was likely, for the abilities of
such part-time colonial volunteers had long been the brunt of
caustic jokes among their own leaders and the British regu-
lars. But this was a day for rejoicing, not accuracy.

The celebrations continued on Friday, May 17, but with
a more sober tone. That day had been set aside as a day of
fasting and prayer. The members of the Virginia Convention
led a procession from the Capitol to Bruton Parish Church,
where the convention’s chaplain was to preach. The church
rector was not to lead the service for good reason: He was a
Tory.

The Rev. Thomas Price’s sermon used the text, “Harken
ye, all Judah! ... Be not afraid nor dismayed, by reason of
this great multitude, for the battle is not yours, but God’s.”

16

     
        
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
    

WV AIRE LGRKDICE REICY ab AIT S Uli

. ‘each colony, be left to the relpedtive colo- | thanks of their ae tlie

- miallegiflatures. _ | ferer in.
_ RESOLVED ances, that. a com-{ of
_ mittee be appointed toprepare A DECLA-| y
"RATION OF RIGHTS, and fuch a plan}
oof government: as will be moft likely to}
_ maintain peace and order in this colony} —
and fecure fabftantial and equal - tq | &
EDMUND. PE

 

 

ee leavour rs)

John Tazewell, ee of ! che € Convention A pole,

f In confequence of the above refolution, } t!
“univerfally regra 3 led a nly door which

, will lead to f: fperity, ee

: _ tolledtio:

3 the Walue
V IL. LIAM

   
  

   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 

LE IG R’
ling of Law, Phyf
_be fold. For
apply to the Pp.

 

 

Virginia Gazette of May 17, 1776, telling of the celebration follow-
ing the adoption of the resolution. (Colonial Williamsburg
Foundation.)

It was propitious that Virginia took the lead in declar-
ing independence. Those Massachusetts hotheads had been
agitating for years, and any bold step from them would have
gotten short shrift from the middle colonies.

But Virginia—that was another matter. She was the largest,
richest and most populous of the colonies. Her conservative
and aristocratic leaders had long been looked to with respect
by the other colonies. George Washington had been chosen
commander in chief of the Continental Army as much for
those political reasons as for his military experience. And
Peyton Randolph of Williamsburg had been elected president
of both the First and Second Continental Congress.

So it was Richard Henry Lee of Virginia who, following the
Fifth Convention’s instructions, rose in Independence Hall

Facsimile of Lee’s Resolu-
tion of Independence,
(Courtesy of Colonial Wil-
liamsburg Foundation.) heer

Richard Henry Lee carried out the Convention’s instructions and
proposed independence in Congress on June 7, 1776.
(Virginia State Library.)

on June 7, 1776, to propose independence.

Lee’s resolution was stripped of philosophy and oratory.
The time for talk was gone.

“RESOLVED, that these United Colonies are, and of right
ought to be, free and independent States, that they are ab-
solved from all allegiance to the British Crown, and that all
political connection between them and the State of Great
Britian is, and ought to be, totally dissolved.

“That it is expedient forthwith to take the most effectual
measures for forming foreign Alliance.

“That a plan of confederation be prepared and transmit-
ted to the respective Colonies for their consideration and ap-
probation.”

That was it. The resolution declaring the colonies free

 

“Oy . Ken

Bove agen ince The fee

bela wees Geotnle fits

IE :
Potato 5 2-fladlenralian be, forgprarche

on ol racers eller Foibocintn lata ea

     

from nearly 200 years of British imperial rule contained 80
words, fewer than on a modern-day Virginia driver’s license.

Congress debated the Virginia delegation’s resolution only
two days before appointing a committee to write a formal
declaration of independence, but the final vote was post-
poned until July 1 so the delegates could seek instructions
from their colonies before casting their votes.

While the delegates to Congress awaited their instructions
and Jefferson was composing the Declaration of Independence,
George Mason was completing another declaration in Wil-
liamsburg.

The same Virginia Resolution that called for Congress to
declare the united colonies “free and independent states”
concluded with a second proposal, this one addressed to the
Virginia Convention: “Resolved unanimously, That a com-
mittee be appointed to prepare a DECLARATION OF
RIGHTS, and such a plan of government as will be most
likely to maintain peace and order in this colony, and secure
substantial and equal liberty to the people.”

As soon as the Convention approved the Virginia Res-
olution on May 15, President Edmund Pendleton appointed a
28-man committee to draft both the Declaration of Rights and
the Virginia constitution.

But George Mason had not yet arrived in Williamsburg.
He had suffered another of his frequent attacks of gout and
didn’t straggle in until May 17. Pendleton immediately named
Mason to the drafting committee and Mason quickly took
over.

Ten days later, the committee had completed its work.

Mason’s Virginia Declaration of Rights holds second place
to no document in the history of man’s struggle to govern
himself. Harvard historian Samuel Eliot Morison, for ex-
ample, has called it “one of the great liberty documents of all
time.”

Throughout early June, the Declaration of Rights was de-
bated at length. It remained largely Mason’s work, but two or
three complete articles were added and a _ fundamental
strengthening of the article on religious freedom was made by
young James Madison.

One of the major debates was over the first article. In the
committee’s draft, it stated, ‘““That all Men are by Nature
equally free and independent, and have certain inherent
Rights, of which they cannot, by any Compact, deprive or di-
vest their Posterity; namely, the Enjoyment of Life and Li-
berty, with the Means of acquiring and possessing Property,
and pursuing and obtaining Happiness and Safety.”’

That unqualified ‘‘all Men” led to long and bitter debate.

As ‘Thomas Ludwell Lee wrote his brother Richard Henry
Lee on June 1, “I will tell you plainly that a certain set of
Aristocrats,—for we have such monsters here,—finding that
their execrable system cannot be reared on such foundations,

17

Virginia Convention

 

have to this time kept us at Bay on the first line, which de-
clares all men to be born equally free and independent. A
number of absurd or unmeaning alterations have been pro-
posed. The words as they stand are approved by a very great
majority, yet by a thousand masterly fetches and strategems
the business has been so delayed that the first clause stands
yet unassented to by the Convention.”

That first line raised two issues: slavery and aristocracy.

First, it would seem to include the slaves. Although sev-
eral Virginians, Mason among them, were opposed to sla-
very—and Virginia in 1778 became the first state to make
importation of slaves a criminal offense—this was not the time
to embroil the Convention in a debate over abolishing the in-
stitution. To make that clear, they modified “all Men are by
Nature equally free and independent” with ‘‘when they enter
into a state of society.’ Slaves were not considered part of
“society” in the terminology of the day.

But the aristocrats were not so successful in the second
argument. They saw “all Men” as a threat to the old British
feudal traditions of entail and primogeniture, which in effect
kept the great landed estates intact by passing them on com-
plete to the eldest son.

They were right, but they could not amend it. Jefferson,
especially, battled mightily against these practices and, later,
Virginia’s first legal code was to eliminate them.

On June 12, the Declaration of Rights was approved unan-
imously.

Still the Virginia Convention’s job was not complete. It
had initiated the colonies’ declaration of independence and
created one of the fundamental documents of democratic prin-
ciples, but the Old Dominion had no basic law, no framework
for government.

Debate on the constitution was at least as long and bitter
as on the Declaration of Rights. But one thing most of the
Convention delegates seemed to agree on: The governor must
have so little power he “would be a mere phantom,” as Pat-
rick Henry put it.

It would be the General Assembly, the direct representa-
tives of the people, that would run the new state. The gover-
nor would be elected by the Assembly, which also would
choose a Privy Council to oversee his every move.

So, when Henry was elected Virginia’s first governor, he
became its first “mere phantom.” It was Edmund Pendleton,
speaker of the House, who would be the real head of the
government.

That done, the Virginia Convention adjourned on July 5
and the delegates left Williamsburg for home. They didn’t
even wait to find out what happened in Philadelphia.

The framers of the Declaration of Rights said they hoped
“that in all the revolutions of time, human opinion, and
government, a perpetual standard should be erected around

18

 

George Mason, author of “one of the great liberty documents
of all time.” (Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.)

which the people might rally, and by a notorious record be for-
ever admonished to be watchful firm and virtuous.” Their
hope was realized, certainly, beyond their wildest dreams.

They realized the Declaration of Independence would not
only free the colonies from the tyranny of George III but
also break them loose from the British traditions defined in
the Magna Carta of 1215 and the English Bill of Rights in
1689—loose from the very rights and privileges they were
fighting to reclaim.

Those traditions, then, had to be restated.

Both the Declaration of Independence and the Declara-
tion of Rights set forth a philosophy of human relationships
and government that looked beyond the immediate need to
create a new political community and, because they did, they

The Capitol at Colonial
Williamsburg, where the his-
toric events of 1776 took
place. (Colonial Wil-
liamsburg photo.)

 
 
 

Han ne fran, amy) of:

    
  
  

 

ha 33 papas Pa ecaly an fi:
Le fre fort $73 ay Oe nebbrarnidfrern ft

y aii fial Joe Upurlhiens df ht fregprte, Wy
Dereon 5, Lt ndcducid Co SSG Maton: Y added " ez
from peck guiac lation; and fhe’

4 fe 0 hs fi Som fabis VG Soke
ie pe tn Le chine Ab be asf aos
vffiun te toffee ert baBeped tl puorere wraith la
wd ¢ Altawhe, 01d Lo ftedao rmamiar th : ot

AS eros ys elected merbivaiad Af an

   

C\

 

     
 
    

  

a Z Le lestabea oececanaieheangs

A page from George Mason’s Virginia Declaration of Rights.
(Copy courtesy of the Virginia State Library.)

have influenced much of the history of mankind ever since.
The principles enunciated in the two declarations are re-
current phrases in most of the statements of basic law written
since 1776.

As the Virginia Resolution for Independence did, the
Declaration includes a long list of grievances against George
III. It was not specific acts of the king that the Declaration
centered on, however, but a universal assertion that tyranny
‘rom any source is to be rejected:

“We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their creator with
certain unalienable rights, that among these are life, liberty,
and the pursuit of happiness. That to secure these rights
governments are instituted among men, deriving their just

 

powers from the consent of the governed. That whenever any
form of government becomes destructive to these ends, it is the
right of the people to alter or abolish it, and to institute new
government, laying its foundation on such principles and
organizing its powers in such form, as to them shall seem most
likely to effect their safety and happiness.”

The Declaration of Rights stated in universal terms those
principles for the protection of the individual from arbi-
trary power called for in the Declaration of Independence:
“That all power is vested in and consequently derived from,
the people; that magistrates are their trustees and servants,
and at all times amenable to them.”

As a universal statement, the Declaration of Rights gave
to future generations the same legacy offered by the Declara-
tion of Independence. Morison called it “the parent of all
later Bills of Rights’”—not only of the rest of the states, but of
the U.S. Bill of Rights, the French Declaration of the Rights
of Man, of unnumbered national constitutions and of the
United Nations Charter—of all later bills of rights, Morison
said, “which have attempted to define the basic rights of man
which no government or official has a right to infringe.”

Basic to the Declarations were the Lockian concepts of
limited government and social compact. Government is a
necessary evil, not a positive good, and it is only when men
find it necessary to create some form of social control that a
government is created. Further, government is created by a
social compact among the members of the community.

This makes the government and the governors subservient
to the people, and it gives them the right to reject that govern-
ment or those governors whenever they infringe upon the in-
herent and superior rights of the people.

Thus, all men—not just the aristocracy, but the yeomen
and the serfs and, finally, the slaves—have equal claim to the
benefits of society and to protection by it. No government,
no king, has a “divine right” to rule; only so long as the
government serves the peopie does it have any right to exist.

In the eighteenth century this was, as Thomas Paine put
it, common sense. The Mayflower Compact of 1620 and in-
numerable such arrangements throughout the American fron-
tier were based on these concepts. But the Declarations inau-
gurated an experiment no nation had ever tried before. This
was to be the first time a community of men would make
practical use of those ideals in creating a new society.

Most of the reforms of the nineteenth century—abolition,
universal suffrage, labor laws, popular education—and most of
the nationalist and anti-colonial movements since 1776 based
their philosophy at least in part on the principles enunciated
in the Declaration of Independence and the Declaration of
Rights.

“Virginia,”
upon.”

Gerry had said, “is always to be depended

19

$50,000 gift toward Benedum
Challenge-’because we're selfish’

Colleges always talk about “the joy of
giving,” the satisfaction to be derived
from generosity. And the reason they talk
that way is because of people like Jim
and Barbara Morefield.

The Morefields have just given $50,-
000 to Washington and Lee toward the
Benedum Scholarship Fund challenge in
the School of Law. And even before he’s
asked about it, Jim Morefield will tell
you: “Barbara and I have already re-
ceived more enjoyment from this gift
than even the recipients [of the scholar-
ship income] will receive—really and
truly.”

Jim is a West Virginia native; Bar-
bara is originally from North Carolina.
Jim did his undergraduate work at Con-
cord College and West Virginia Univer-
sity; Barbara is a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Houston, and the Morefields now
reside there. So it was natural that they
should have chosen to designate income
from their gift to benefit outstanding law
students from the four states with which
they themselves have been associated—
West Virginia, North Carolina, Virginia
and ‘Texas—who plan careers in govern-
ment, business or in the legal profession.

The Morefield gift will have the fur-
ther effect of helping meet the $150,000
challenge grant made to W&L by the
Claude Worthington Benedum Founda-
tion. Income from the Benedum grant
and matching gifts is designated to sup-
port an honors scholarship in the law
school specificially for students from West
Virginia.

In 1949 Jim came to Washington and
Lee to study law, and received his LL.B.
in 1952. Comments Barbara today: “Jim
is devoted to W&L. I’ve never known any-
body who is quite so loyal to his school.”

After graduation from W&L, Jim
went to Houston “because I had a brother
there.” As Jim tells it, “I came to town
without a penny in my pocket.” He re-
calls taking the first-year course in prop-
erty law transactions at W&L under the
late Dean Clayton Epes Williams, “and
wondering if I could ever get through it.”

20

So it was all the more remarkable that his
very first job would be as ad valorem tax
agent with Trunkline Gas Co., and that
his second would be in title research.

He soon met and married Barbara
Crutchfield. In 1958 they decided to go
into the abstracting business for them-
selves, and Jim founded South Texas Ab-
stract Service, Inc., in Houston.

Jim and Barbara Morefield thought
carefully about their gift to Washington
and Lee—and they concluded that Wash-
ington and Lee in general, and the Bene-
dum scholarship program in particular,
merited their devotion and their tangible
support, for both intellectual and sub-
jective reasons.

It was at W&L, after all, that he learn-
ed “the true value of education,” Jim
says. ‘‘Washington and Lee did an awful
lot for me. I’m thankful W&L allowed me
to attend, and that the University put up
with me.”

And it is evident that Barbara shares
his enthusiasm for W&L. She is the per-
fect example of what the late Ross L.
Malone, rector of W&L’s Board of Trus-
tees, had in mind when he said “I’ve
chuckled so many times about the wives
of Washington and Lee graduates who
have not had an occasion to be on cam-
pus previously. When they finally visit,
they become completely indoctrinated
with the W&L spirit.”

Barbara Crutchfield grew up _ in
Greensboro, but went to college in Hous-
ton, where she met Jim, newly out of law
school. She was a pre-law major, and her
husband recalls she always wanted to be a
lawyer. She never became one formally,
but Jim says she knows every bit as much
about the law as he does.

“I like the things W&L stands for,”
Barbara says. “I think we need the values
that W&L helps put in the minds of
people.”

Jim agrees. W&L’s principles are, he
Says, the principles he first learned from
his parents, the late William Brown and
Hattie Porter Morefield, of Princeton,
W. Va.—the principles upon which he has

  

Tim

Jim Morefield

tried to build his life ever since. Even in
the Rotary Club (in which he has been ex-
tremely active for some 15 years), he
brings that set of values to bear—the vir-
tues of truth, fairness, good will, and gen-
eral benefit to all affected.

Morefield is extremely active in civic
and charitable affairs in Houston. He is
a member and immediate past president
of the Sharpstown Rotary Club, a trustee
of the Rotary Boy’s Club, and a member
of the Paul Carrington Chapter of the
Sons of the American Revolution. He was
also a member of the board of directors
of the Eliza Johnson Center, Inc., for 10
years and its president for three years.

And the Morefields believe strongly
in W&L’s traditional independence.
““There’s no way anyone pays for his own
education—tuition doesn’t even come
close to covering the cost,” Barbara re-
marks. ““The choice is whether govern-
ments or private benefactors make up the
difference—whether control comes from
the outside or remains within the institu-
tion itself.”

They recognize, too, the critical im-
portance, especially now, of continuing to
strengthen W&L’s financial aid programs.
“It’s the middle-class family that is being
hit the hardest” by rising costs every-
where, Jim notes, and college costs are no
exception. “And these are the people we
{the Morefields and W&L together] want
to and need to help.”

An education such as that he received
from Washington and Lee “can literally
do wonders,” Jim has discovered—“if a
person will allow it to.” He compares
education with a businessman’s capital in-
vestment or a merchant’s inventory—with
the difference that education keeps on
growing with use, that it cannot be lost
or stolen. “Its value,” he says, “can only
appreciate with use.”

This is what the Morefields cherish
about Washington and Lee, and why they
chose to indulge themselves by making
their gift. “We are both,” says Jim, “very
selfish people.”

 

‘Washington and His Times’ in fine detail:
‘64 alumnus donates Szyk series to library

A collection of 38 miniature prints by
the late artist Arthur Szyk, centering on
the career of George Washington, has
been given to Washington and Lee by a
1964 graduate and his wife, Mr. and Mrs.
Winfred (Skip) Essex Jr. of New York
City.

The collection, “George Washington
and His Times,” portrays Revolutionary
War scenes, primarily involving Wash-
ington. The series was commissioned by
the United States government in 1932 to
commemorate the 200th anniversary of
Washington’s birth.

Scenes such as the battles of Concord,
Bunker Hill and Fort Moultrie and por-
traits of Revolutionary leaders including
Washington, Lafayette, Pulaski and Steu-

  
       

i CONGRESS PASS

A DECLARATIC
 laakechs ablighiihcaied
UNITED STATES OF AMER
1 CI ACE, MG

yo Ss St

ben are in the collection.

Szyk, who died in 1951, was famous
for the intricate detail in his works, from
illuminated manuscripts to anti-Nazi car-
toons during World War II. He studied
at the Academie Julienne- in Paris when
he was 15 and decided to work in minia-
tures two years later. He later apprentic-
ed in Cracow, Poland, and studied Orien-
tal Art in the Near East. The oriental in-
fluence is evident in the collection, pri-
marily in the attention to detail and the
expressions of the characters.

His wartime cartoons, appearing in
both English periodicals and such Ameri-
can publications as The New York Post,
Time and Life, were used to inspire the
Allied armed forces.

aie CY. oe

 

y) A 7 Rea |
13 Mw J re

_ WASHINGTON

 

Szyk also provided illuminated draw-
ings for several books, including The
Song of Songs, The Book of Esther,
Rubatyat, Andersen’s Fairy Tales, Can-
terbury Tales, and the Arabian Nights.

Some of Szyk’s works hang in Luxem-
bourg Palace and in the National Library
in Paris. His unfinished work depicting
the covenant of the League of Nations has
been displayed in the Museum of Art His-
tory in Geneva.

“George Washington and His Times”
is now a part of Washington and Lee’s
special collections in McCormick Library,
where it is available to students and
scholars. The University plans also to
make extensive use of the series this
Spring in its Bicentennial observance.

>

—
Soe

|
«1K

Nanni hig
VALLEY FORGE

seen,

Fk ee fe] i san, ita
fa apes . ?
5 9 eee ,

21

Alumni Fund
annual
Telethon

nets $27,000

in pledges

Seventy-eight alumni—20 accompanied
by their wives—made more than 800
telephone calls during the annual Alumni
Fund Telethon on the evenings of March
9-10-11. The calls resulted in pledges to
the Alumni Fund totaling over $27,000.

For the third consecutive year, the
telethon was held at the offices of Wheat
First Securities in Richmond under the
direction of Gordon Miller, ’45, telethon
vice chairman. A smaller telethon was also
held at the Williams Club in New York
on the evening of March 8 under the di-
rection of Alumni Fund Vice Chairman
Jack Neill, ’38, and Russ Browning, ’42.

Several of the callers in the Richmond
telethon came long distances to take part.
For the second straight year Alumni
Fund Vice Chairman Herbert Jahncke,
30, and his wife, Carol, drove all the
way from New Orleans, and for the third
year in a row Vice Chairman Russ
Browning, ’42, and his wife, Irish, came
down from Newark. Law Vice Chairman
Mac Squires, ’70A, ’73L, drove up from
Columbia, S. C. These three vice chair-
men made calls on all three nights. But
perhaps the best example of dedication
was that shown by Stew Epley, 1949A
Class Agent. Stew and his wife, Nancy,
left Albany, N. Y., at 5 a.m. on March 9
in a snowstorm to drive all the way to
Richmond to make calls that night.

As the pictures on these pages show,
all those who participated in the telethon
seemed to enjoy themselves.

 

. Gordon Miller, ’45, Telethon vice chair-
man; Carter Fox, 61, Alumni Fund chair-

man.

. Walt Williams, ’49A; Harry Hill, ’70A,

74L.

. Bill Jacobs, ’29A; Toot Gibson, ’29A Class

Agent.

. Greg Raetz, ’71A, and wife, Tillie.

. Sam Dudley (rear), ’56A, ’57A, '58A; Opie

Pollard, ’54A, ’57L.

. Dave Redmond, (rear), ’69L Class Agent;

Don Maloy, ’38A.

. Fund Chairman Carter Fox and wife,

Carol.

. Chick Heiner (rear), "41L; Pete DeBoer,

"A9A,

10.
11.

12.

- Stew Epley, "49A Class Agent;

Nancy
Agent;
Daniels
driving

Epley; Sam White, ’50L Class
Bill Hamilton, "49A. The Jack
was awarded to the Epleys for
down from New York.

Jeff Williams, ’65A.

Rob Turnbull, ’72A Class Agent.

Mac Squires, ’70A, ’73L, vice chairman
for ’70s Law Classes.

 

 

 

 

 

‘Ae won Be ed

 

16

13. Charlie Pritchard, ’34A. He won his
fifth for getting the largest number of
pledges on the evening of March 9.

14. Dan Balfour, ’63A, ’65L.

15. Bill Etherington, ’74L.

16. Dave Peters, '63A; Dan Balfour (rear);
'63A, ’65L.

 

17.
18.

19.

Bob Peery, ’41A.

Herbert Jahncke, ’30A, ’26A-’32A vice
chairman, and wife, Carol.

Jerry Hendrick (rear), "73L; Jay Pascal,
‘73L; John C. Moore, ’73L Class Agent.

. Angelica Didier (front), ’"75L Class Agent;

Lee Brown, (rear), "74L; Fran Framme;
Larry Framme, ’74L; Beth Franke.

23

Edwin A. Morris heads
Estate Planning Council

Edwin A. Morris, ’26, of Greens-
boro, N. C., has been named chairman of
the Washington and Lee Estate Planning
Council. Morris, chairman of the board
of Blue Bell, Inc., succeeds Martin P.
Burks III, ’32, of Roanoke, Va., retired
general counsel of the Norfolk and Wes-
tern Railway.

As chairman, Morris will oversee and
coordinate the volunteer efforts of about
90 alumni who serve as class agents for
bequests and deferred gifts and as region-
al members of the Estate Planning Coun-
cil.

Morris received his B. S. degree in
business administration from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1926 and also attended
Harvard Business School. He worked for
various clients as an industrial engineer
until joining Blue Bell in 1937, begin-
ning as a plant manager. He became ex-
ecutive vice president in charge of manu-
facturing in 1941 and was elected presi-
dent and chief executive officer in 1948.
He became chairman of the board in
1966 and remained chief executive until
1974.

He has been active in community and
professional affairs. He was president of
the American Apparel Manufacturers As-
sociation from 1958 to 1960 and is a
former director of the United States In-
dustrial Council and the National As-
sociation of Manufacturers. He is cur-
rently a director of the North Carolina
Citizens Association, the North Carolina

24

4-H Development Fund, Inc, and the
North Carolina Department of Natural
and Economic Resources Board. He is
also a trustee of the Wesley Long Hos-
pital in Greensboro.

Members of the Council and the class
agents, who represent those classes that
were graduated 25 or more years ago,
seek to acquaint alumni and other friends
of Washington and Lee with various ways
in which capital gifts to the University
can be made part of their long-range fi-
nancial planning. With professional sup-
port from the staff of the Office of Uni-
versity Development, these volunteers are
ready to help donors and their advisors
determine the most appropriate way in

 

Edwin A. Morris

which to include Washington and Lee in
their plans.

The importance of bequests and other
kinds of deferred gifts to Washington
and Lee cannot be overemphasized. Of
the more than $30 million that has been
committed to the University Development
Program for the 1970's, more than $7
million has come from estates. Many
familiar campus buildings, as well as
professorships and funds for scholarships
or other special purposes, bear the names
of those who have shared their estates
with Washington and Lee. The Univer-
sity’s recent bequest of about $11 mil-
lion under the will of John Lee Pratt is
just one striking example of many such
gifts.

Under the leadership of Burks, who
served as chairman of the Council from
the time of its formation in 1971, the de-
ferred gifts program has benefited from
the creation of trusts and other life in-
come arrangements with a market value
of about $1.5 million. Of this amount,
over $900,000 is invested in the Wash-
ington and Lee Pooled Income Fund,
managed by United Virginia Bank, Rich-
mond. These life income gifts represent
capital that will ultimately strengthen
Washington and Lee but that now is pro-
viding income for the donors.

Information about deferred gifts and
bequests, the use to which these gifts may
be put, and the often highly favorable
tax consequences of such gifts may be ob-
tained from the Office of University De-
velopment.

 

Chapter news

CHARLOTTE. The Top of the Tower,
overlooking the night lights of Charlotte,
was the setting of a stag smoker on
March 3. David T. Johnson Jr., ’68, chap-
ter president, introduced David Braun,
‘76, publicity director of the 1976 W&L
Mock Democratic Convention. Braun en-
thusiastically reported on the floats,
bands, and national speakers that will be
associated with this year’s convention.
Tom Imeson, ’61, chemistry professor and
a Lexington city councilman, followed up
with a description of Lexington’s Bicen-
tennial renovations. Farris Hotchkiss, ’58,
director of development, discussed the
Pratt bequest to the University and an-
swered questions. He emphasized the
need for continuing alumni financial
support to finance a new undergraduate
library. John L. Crist, 45, a member of
the Board of ‘Trustees, discussed the
board’s recent decision to keep W&L an
all-male school. Those attending repre-
sented a wide range of classes—from
F. A. Henry, ’21, who recently moved to
Charlotte from Nashville to Lewis Han-
nah, ’74.

APPALACHIAN. Roy Steinheimer, dean
of the School of Law, and Mrs. Stein-
heimer were guests of honor at a recep-
tion and dinner at the Bristol Country
Club on March 12. The dinner was pre-
ceded by a cocktail hour and drew a
large number of alumni from the Tri-
City area. James D. Bowie, ’56, ’65L, re-
tiring president, presided and introduced
the guests. Dean Steinheimer discussed
University affairs, emphasizing the prog-
ress being made on Lewis Hall, the
outstanding new facility of the School of
Law. John W. Nickels, ’50, reported for
the nominating committee, and the fol-
lowing new officers were elected: Robert
A. Vinyard, ’70, president, and C. Jack
Cartwright, ’71, secretary-treasurer. Alum-
ni Secretary Bill Washburn also attended
the meeting.

BIRMINGHAM. An exceptionally large
number of alumni, their wives, and

[LO
we P 3
ey * 4
* .
ee - oe
ae ¥
SE = »
Sa
sits < -
< -
3 & ;
age
es ia 2

APPALACHIAN-Jack Nickels, ’50; C. Jack Cartwright, ’71; Robert A. Vinyard, '70;

      

 

SS
x

& t

Dean Roy Steinheimer; Frank Goodpasture Jr., ’43.

BIRMINGHAM—Crawford Williams,

Mrs. Abernethy.

friends attended a cocktail and dinner
meeting on March 19 at the Relay House.
Dr. Louis Hodges, professor of religion,
and Mrs. Hodges, were special guests. Dr.
Hodges gave an up-to-date report on the
University and campus life, which was
enthusiastically received. The gathering
was the first general meeting of alumni
in the Birmingham area in several years,

 

and the consensus was that it was one of
the best alumni functions ever. The new-
ly elected officers of the chapter made the
arrangements. They are: Richard Aber-
nethy, ’72, president; David R. Pittman,
'75, vice president; and Felix M. Dren-
nan III, ’73, secretary-treasurer. Many
alumni and friends came from other parts
of Alabama. A lively question-and-answer

25

period followed Dr. Hodges’ remarks.
Abernethy, in adjourning the meeting,
said the chapter was planning a meeting
to honor the young men in the area who
will enter W&L this fall.

JACKSON. Alumni Secretary Bill Wash-
burn met with a small group of interest-
ed alumni at the Capitol City Club on
March 22 in Jackson to discuss plans
for organizing an alumni chapter in the
central Mississippi area. Sherwood W.
Wise, ’32, ’34L, arranged the luncheon.
The group asked Leigh B. Allen III, 60,
to head a committee to study the extent
of the chapter areas. These plans will
be reported later.

MOBILE. A large number of alumni
from the Mobile area as well as several
members of the Pensacola chapter met
on March 23 at the Athelstan Club to dis-
cuss University affairs with two mem-
bers of the Board of Trustees: Joseph T.

Lykes Jr. of New Orleans and Jack W.

Warner of Tuscaloosa. Also present were
Farris Hotchkiss, director of develop-
ment; Adrian Williamson, a development
staff associate, and Bill Washburn, alum-
ni secretary. The stag meeting began with
a cocktail period. The alumni expressed
their pleasure at having an unusual op-
portunity to discuss the University with
leading administrators. Dinner followed
cocktails, and the group was pleased to
have A. Peyton Bush, ’29, join the dis-
cussion. Several Mobile alumni arranged
the meeting, including G. Russell Ladd,
‘57, G. Sage Lyons, ’58, and Harvey E.
Jones Jr., ’64.

TIDEWATER. For the first time in
several years, pleasant weather prevailed
for the chapter’s annual oyster roast at
Bayville Farms in Virginia Beach. A large
number of alumni, their wives, and dates
turned out for the feast. Guests from the
University included President and Mrs.
Robert E. R. Huntley, Alumni Secretary
and Mrs. Bill Washburn, Director of
Development Farris Hotchkiss, and Pub-
lications Director and Mrs. Rom Weath-
erman Other guests included Mr. and
Mrs. Eldridge Whitehurst, Mrs. Hunt-
ley’s parents. The oysters were delicious
and plentiful and so was the beer. Every-
one seemed to enjoy himself, eating,
drinking, and keeping time to the Blue-
grass and jazz music supplied by the
Chesapeake Bay Bearcats. The arrange-
ments were made by several members of
the chapter, including Peter Agelasto, ’62,
Richard Burroughs, ’68, David Shuffle-
barger, 69, Davis Reed, ’60, and Bill
Candler, ’63, who was chief cook.

26

 

 

JACKSON—U. Grey Flowers, ’43; Leigh B. Allen III, ’60, new chapter president;

Sherwood W. Wise, ’32.

MOBILE—William O. Shropshire, ’42; A. Peyton Bush Jr.,

 

‘40; Gossett McRae, '27; Joe Mighell, ’40; Billy Lott, ’29.

  

TIDEWATER—At left: Stockton Tyler Jr., 39; Vaugha

n Beale, 39; Sam C. Jones

Jr., '39. At right: Charles Tucker, ’51; Jack E. Greer, ’51:; Judge John W. Eggleston,

06, and Mrs. Eggleston.

 

TIDEWATER —President Huntley,
Everett Martin, ’37.

‘50, James H. Tyler II, 31; Farris Hotchkiss, 58;

 

 

 

 

 

Class notes

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $68.00 f.o.b.

Lexington, Virginia

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Immediate shipment
from available stock.

 

 

 

1922

R. BLEAKLEY JAMES, a retired attorney with
the Veterans’ Administration in Clifton
Forge, Va., was honored in New Orleans, by
the Board of Commissioners of the Port of
New Orleans. James and his wife were pres-
ent for the christening and launching cere-
mony, on Dec. 11, 1975, of a new 1.5 million
dollar dredge dedicated in the name of Ro-
bert Bleakley, the first president (1896) of
the Board of Commissioners and the grand-
father of James. Following the ceremony the
Jameses attended a banquet held at the Com-
mander’s Palace Restaurant in the historic

garden district.
1932

ALLAN S. DELAND, now fully retired, is chair-
man of the legal committee of Hilltop Place
Community Association in New London,
N.H. He plays a lot of golf and enjoys cross-

country skiing.
1934

RICHARD SALE’s tenth novel, The White Buf-
falo, has just been published. He is working
with Dino de Laurentils Co. on the film pro-
duction of the novel.

DANIEL B. STARTSMAN was with Clenny Glass
Co. in Cincinnati for 38 years before it dis-
solved in 1974. He is now with Nurre Co., a
building materials firm.

Victor F. Tucker, having retired from Flin-
tate Co., is engaged in real estate business in
suburban Philadelphia.

1937

James S. Bruce becomes director of cor-
porate relations for Eastman Kodak Co. June
1, 1976. Bruce, a resident of Irondequoit,
N. Y., joined Eastman in 1939 as an engineer
in the paper service division of Kodak Park
and was appointed assistant superintendent
of that division in 1952. He moved to Kodak
Office in 1956 as assistant director of train-
ing. In 1962 Bruce was appointed director
of the business and technical personnel de.
partment and three years later he returned to
Kodak Park as associate director of the
photographic technology division and was
named a director in 1970. He was appointed
assistant director of corporate relations in
1973.

1938

Dr. FLoyp R. MAYs Jr. expects to retire from
medical practice in two years. Mays lives in
Big Spring, Texas, and is a certified YMCA
scuba instructor.

 

J. S. Bruce, '37

PauL M. MILLER is in his second year as
U. S. Consul in Santo Domingo.

1940

Howarp T. SHEPHERD is a trust officer with
Worthen Bank and Trust Co. in Little Rock,
Ark. A retired Air Force Reserve and a
Selective Service Reserve member, Shepherd
received the Air Force Commendation Medal
and the Selective Service System Meritorious
Service Medal.

J. C. SNipow Jr. of Christiansburg, Va., is
judge of General District Court, 27th Judi-

cial District.
194]

J. F. CUNNINGHAM has opted for early re-
tirement as newsman from the Honolulu Ad-

vertiser.
1942

EDGAR M. Boyp, a partner of the investment
firm of Baker, Watts, & Co., has been named
the new president of the Chamber of Com-
merce of Metropolitan Baltimore. He has
been associated with the organization since
1973 and has been a member of the execu-
tive committee. He is also a past president
of the Rotary Club and the Bond Club of
Baltimore. He serves on the boards of the
Maryland General Hospital, Baltimore Life
Insurance Company, Baltimore Industrial
Development Corporation, the Merchants
Club and the Greater Baltimore Commit-
tee. Boyd joined Baker, Watts, & Co. in 1946.

1943

ALLIE H. LANE, after ten years on the bench,
resigned as Circuit Judge in Florida in Janu-
ary, 1975, and is now involved with private
practice in Bartow, Fla. He is with the firm
of Lane, Massey, Trohn, Clarke, Bertrand &
Smith which also has offices in Lakeland.

1944

ROBERT H. SEAL, former executive vice presi-
dent, has been elected president of the Na-
tional Bank of Commerce in San Antonio,
Texas. Seal has been with NBC since 1973
and is also a director of the bank, a direc-
tor of the San Antonio Presbyterian Founda-
tion, and a director of Southwestern Gradu-
ate School of Banking at Southern Methodist
University. He is a former mayor of Terreil
Hills, Texas, and is past president of the
Fiesta San Antonio Commission.

1945

WILLIAM C. Mowkris is a regional sales man-

27

Class Notes

ager for military sales for Eastman Kodak Co.
His territory includes the states of Califor-
nia, Utah, Nevada, Idaho, Oregon, Washing-
ton and Alaska.

1946

FLEET §. HUGHLETT has joined Mutual Trust
Life Insurance Co. as a general agent. He
will head the office located in Easton, Md.
Hughlett belongs to the National Associa-
tion of Life Underwriters; the Baltimore As-
sociation of Life Underwriters; the Balti-
more Chapter, Chartered Life Underwriters;
and the Estate Planning Council. He also
holds the Chartered Life Underwriters desig-
nation of the American College of Life Un-
derwriters. He is a resident of Bozman, Md.

1947

WILLIAM H. PIFER is practicing otolaryngol-
ogy in Winchester, Va. He is also chairman
of Winchester City School Board.

THOMAS R. WATKINS, a Hampton, Va., law-
yer, has been appointed to the State Board of
Education by Gov. Mills Godwin. Watkins is
a former president of the Hampton Bar
Association and a former chairman of the
Virginia State Bar Committee on the Judici-

ary.
ALLIE H. LANE (See 1943).

1948

JostaH P. Rowe III, general manager and
co-publisher of The Free Lance-Star in Fred-
ericksburg, Va., has been elected to the board
of the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co.
of Virginia. Rowe is a member and past
president of the Virginia Press Association.
He is also on the boards of Historic Fred-
ericksburg Foundation Inc., Mary Washing-
ton Hospital and Farmers & Merchants State

Bank.
1950

JOHN C. EARLE is the assistant to the dean of
the University of Detroit School of Law. He,
his wife, and their three children live in
Birmingham, Mich.

GEORGE W. GINN is a mineral resource en-
gineer with the California State Land Com-
mission. He is involved in oil, gas, and min-
eral operations on the outer continental
shelf.

ROBERT W. SWINARTON, vice chairman of the
board of Dean Witter & Co., was a partici-
pant in the National Association of Securi-
ties Dealers Automated Quotation Seminars,
which were held between Dec. 8, 1975 and

28

 

F. S. Hughlett, °46

Jan. 9, 1976 in major cities throughout the
country. Swinarton delivered a detailed pa-
per entitled “The Outlook for our Capital
Markets.” He is a member of the National
Market Advisory Board, the 15-member
group created by Congress to advise SEC
and Congress in matters relating to the
changes mandated in the Securities Amend-
ments Act of 1975. In January 1976, he be-
came chairman of the Board of Governors
of NASD.

THoMAS R. WATKINS (See 1947).

195]

MARVIN C. BOWLING Jr. has been elected to
the board of directors of the Lawyers Title
Insurance Corp. He joined Lawyers Title in
1951 and since that time has been assign-
ed to the company’s home office in Rich-
mond, Va. He was elected counsel in 1971,
a vice president and counsel in 1972, and a
senior vice president and general counsel in
1975.

Eric G. Curry is employed by the Maryland
Health Service Cost Review Commission. He
lives in Towson.

1952

OreEsT NEIMANIs is in Munich, Germany, serv-
ing as president and managing director of
Neimanis Buchvertrieb, Ltd., the largest
wholesale distributor of Russian-language
books.

DONALD L. SHUCK has been promoted to the
position of assistant vice president in the
stockbrokerage firm of Moore, Leonard &
Lynch, in Pittsburgh, Pa. Before joining the
firm in 1964, he was vice president with Sha-
fer Coach Lines. The family lives in Corao-
polis, Pa.

S. MAYNARD ToRK, effective June 1, 1976,
will become general counsel of Hercules, Inc.
Turk joined the company in 1954 as an attor-
ney at the Hercules-operated, government-
owned Radford Army Ammunition Plant in
Virginia. In 1959, he was transferred to the
legal department as a counsel in the corpo-
rate headquarters in Wilmington, Del. He was
named senior counsel in 1966, senior patent
counsel, patent department, in 1970, and, in
1972, he was named director of that depart-
ment, the position he held at the time of his
new assignment.

1954

J. Extis Crossy Jr., after receiving his LL.B.

    

M. C. Bowling Jr., ’51

 

S. M. Turk, ’52

from Emory University in 1956, entered the
Coast Guard where he saw active duty in
New Orleans. He and his wife, the former
Miranne Garton, have three children and
since 1957 have lived in Jacksonville, Fla.
Crosby is with Foley Lumber Co., which en-
gages in retail lumber and building ma-
terials.

HASWELL M. FRANKLIN was recently elected
vice president of the Baltimore Life Under-
writers Association.

GrorcE H. GREER is completing eight years as
city commissioner and mayor pro-tem of
Owensboro, Ky.

SEDGWIcK L. Moss is president of the Wash-
ington Numismatic-Society. The organiza-
tion was first founded in 1927.

1955

J. HARDIN MARrIon III is the managing part-
ner of the law firm of Tydings & Rosenberg
in Baltimore. He is chairman of the board
of directors of Dismas House of Baltimore, a
halfway house for federal and state offenders
returning to society. He is also a member
of the Baltimore City Charter Revision Com-
mission, and active in politics.

Dr. THOMAS W. Rossins Jr. is still with
Merck Sharp & Dolme Research Laboratories.
He is currently in Stockholm, Sweden for six
months for close supervision of Merck’s re-
search efforts in Scandinavia and North-
eastern Europe.

1957

WILLIAM L. KAUFFMAN and his family have
moved from Minneapolis to Chester, N.J.,
where he is executive vice president of B.
Shehadi & Sons Inc. of Chatham, N.J. The
retail firm specializes in residential and com-
mercial carpeting and oriental rugs.

1958

A. LEE MULLINS has been elected to the
board of directors of the Tucson Realty and
Trust Co.

J. Harpin Marion III (See 1955).

1959

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. EsPERIAN,
a son, Christopher John, in June, 1975. Es-
perian is currently the assistant headmaster
and head of the Upper School of the Ameri-
can School in Vienna but has been appointed
the new headmaster of Linden Hall School

for Girls in Lititz, Pa. He writes, “We can
see a few homecoming games now!”’

Tom L. LARIMORE, an attorney in Ft. Worth,
serves as president of the Rotary Club of
Western Fort Worth, president-elect of the
Senior Citizens Cents Inc., president of the
Fort Worth Horseshoe Club, and chairman
of the admissions committee for District 7
of the State Bar of Texas. Larimore is also
a member of the board of All Saints Epis-
copal Church and a member of the board
of management of the YMCA.

1960

Dr. H. Hutson MESSER practices obstetrics
and gynecology in Tallahassee, Fla. He holds
an appointment as clinical associate pro-
fessor in the department of obstetrics and
gynecology at the University of Florida in
Gainesville. He enjoys sailboat racing in his
free time.

CHARLES A. PERKINSON JR. is the judge of
Brunswick County General District Court
and the Juvenile and Domestic Relations
District Court. The family resides in Law-
renceville, Va.

 

1962

JEROME M. DatrTeL is vice president and
manager of Drexel Burnham & Co. of At-
lanta, Ga.

JAMEs A. GWINN continues with New Eng-
land Mutual Life Insurance Co. and is a life
member of the Million Dollar Roundtable.

1963

NICHOLAS MONSARRAT and his family were
featured in an article which was carried in
the March 1976 issue of the Ladies Home
Journal. The article dealt with how he and
his wife, Dorothy, had chosen a life style in
Williamstown, Vt. that included the things
they loved: skiing, other outdoor sports and
fresh air. They also wanted homey pleasures,
like baking their own bread; time to spend
with their children; a sturdy, warm, snug old
house with plenty of acreage which is con-
ducive for a slow-paced way of enjoying
life. Upon graduation from Washington and
Lee, Monsarrat took a job at the Rutland
Daily-Herald. Later he became associated
with the Vermont Press Bureau, a statewide
news service; and was at the same time

 

W&L President Robert E. R. Huntley received the honorary Doctor of Letters degree
this spring from the College of Charleston (S.C.) in ceremonies marking that institution’s
206th Founder’s Day. Washington and Lee was one of 16 pre-Revolutionary colleges
honored by Charleston as a Bicentennial event. W&L, founded in 1749, is the sixth-
oldest institution in America. Huntley also holds honorary degrees from Wake Forest
University and Randolph-Macon College.

Time magazine’s stringer in Vermont. Two
years ago Monsarrat became an editor of
the Times-Argus, the newspaper that serves
Barre and Montpelier. He writes for the edi-
torial page. The Monsarrats have three chil-
dren and live in a 75-year old field stone
house. Dorothy is quoted as saying, “We have
all of the really important things we moved
up here for. We are building a solid feeling
as a family that I hope will make our chil-
dren whole and secure people. I wouldn't
trade our life for anything.”

1964

Davip J. ANDRE is a partner in the law firm
of Kuykendall, Whiting & Costello in Win-
chester, Va.

PETER K. Noonan is employed by Fidelity In-
vestment Advisors as vice president of equity
acquisitions. He is also vice president and
director of the Levine Realty Co. and the
Financial Land Co. Noonan and his wife, the
former Margaret Stack, have one son. The
family lives in Springfield, Ohio.

WILLIAM Mc. SCHILDT is an assistant U. S.
Attorney for the District of Maryland.

1965

Dr. RoBERT H. CoFIELD has been appointed
as an orthopedic surgeon to the permanent
staff of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn.

Dr. KIAH T. Forp III is on the teaching staff
at Walter Reed General Hospital in the
Diagnostic Radiology Department. He holds
the rank of major. He and his wife have two
children.

DAN J. FRIEDMAN Jr. has recently been pro-
moted to an advisory programmer for IBM
Corp. in Poughkeepsie, N. Y.

Victor R. GALEF is marketing director of
Wyler Foods, a division of Borden, Inc. and
a manufacturer of drinks and soups. He and
his wife, Mimi, have two children. The
family lives in Northbrook, Ill.

Douctas D. HAGEsTAD has recently been pro-
moted to assistant vice president of market
development of Illinois Central Gulf Rail-
road.

GEORGE M. SANDERS continues as senior staff
psychologist and coordinator of the After-
care Program at the guidance center of Cam-
den County, N. J. He lives in Cherry Hill.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBERT C. VAUGHAN,
29

Class Notes

a second daughter, Elizabeth Schuyler, on
June 23, 1975. The family lives in Charlottes-
ville, Va.

RoBerT R. BALDWIN is teaching estate plan-
ning at the University of Delaware Law
School.

In July 1975 DAvip FLEIscHER began a fellow-
ship in gastroenterology at Harbor General
Hospital (UCLA) in Los Angeles. He and
his wife, Karen, have one son.

SAMUEL H. FRAZIER is practicing with the law
firm of Spain, Gillon, Riley, Tate, and Ethe-
redge in Birmingham, Ala.

J. MicHAEL Marcovux had an article publish-
ed recently in the 1975 Annual Report of
Section of Public Utilities Law, American
Bar Association, dealing with the rate de-
sign in the electric, gas, and telephone util-
ity business. The article is entitled “Social
and Economic Factors in Rate Design.”

Lewis N. MILLER Jr. has been promoted to
the position of vice president of the Central
National Bank in Richmond, Va. Miller join-
ed CNB in June, 1972 in the financial plan-
ning area. He is responsible for corporate
planning.

CHARLEs W. REESE JR. is with the legal staff
of Kaiser Industries Corp. headquartered in
Oakland, Calif. His responsibilities include
real estate development and marine insur-
ance activities of the affiliated Kaiser com-
panies.

Dr. WALTER STELLE of Morganton, N.C., is
executive director of a four-county mental
health catchment area in North Carolina.
He and his wife, Gini, have two children.

1967

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WARREN E. STEWART,
a son, McHenry Chapman, on Oct. 24, 1975.
The family lives in San Antonio, Texas.

ANDREW H. LUPTON is serving as executive
director of the New Jersey Commission on
Financing Higher Education. The assign-
ment concerns the development of a long-
term financing system to enable New Jersey
to maintain a diversified public and private
group of qualified colleges and universities.

Davip W. Ocitvy, formerly credit and area
administrator for the Bank of America
in northern Mexico, is now an account exe-
cutive with Lawrence Systems, Inc. with re-
sponsibilities in Arizona.

BRADFORD SHINKLE IV is currently product

30

manager for General Mills.

Davip J. ANDRE (See 1964).

1968

MARRIAGE: PHILIP CLINTON THOMPSON to
Julie Ann Young on Feb. 7, 1976 in Atlanta,
Ga. Thompson is a practicing attorney in
Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. WILLIAM WALKER
JR., a son, William Campbell, on Dec. 16,
1975. A practicing attorney in Miami, Fla.,
Walker is working for an LL.M. degree at
the University of Miami specializing in taxa-
tion and estate planning.

Dr. PAuL A. BRower is currently a resident
in the Department of Urology at U.C.L.A.
and has recently presented papers at meet-
ings of the American College of Surgeons and
the Western Section of the American Urolog-
ic Association.

Jon T. HULsizER is a communication con-
sultant with New Jersey Bell Telephone Co.

 

L. N. Miller Jr., ’66

He lives in Morristown, N. J.

RONALD H. MARKS, an attorney with the law
firm of White and Marks in Norfolk, Va., has
recently been elected president of the young
lawyers’ section of the Norfolk and Ports-
mouth Bar Association. In addition, he
serves on the executive committee of the Nor-
folk and Portsmouth Bar Association and
the young lawyers’ section of the Virginia
Bar Association.

WINSTON E. MATHEWS JR. was with the Rich-
mond District of the Internal Revenue Serv-
ice as an attorney of estate tax. In Febru-
ary, 1976, he became associated with the law
firm of Cale, Wells, Morano, Axselle and
Johnson.

CHARLES BAILY ToMB, after undergraduate
days at W&L, served four years as a Navy
diver and as a lieutenant in the submarine
service. Upon graduation from W&L Law
School in 1975, he became associated with
the New York firm of Winthrop, Stim-
son, Putnam & Roberts.

 

Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. (left), ’29, °31L, was awarded the honorary
Doctor of Laws degree by Yeshiva University this spring in exercises marking the opening
of its new Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law. Powell was also the principal speaker

at the convocation. Also receiving honorary doctorates from Yeshiva were U.S. Atty. Gen.
Edward H. Levi (right); Chaim Herzog, Israeli ambassador to the United Nations; Morris
B. Abram, former president of Brandeis University; and Henry L. Schwartz, president

of the Brookdale Foundation and Ramapo Trust. Powell, a member of W&L’s Board

of Trustees since 1961, is a former president of the American Bar Association and has
been on the nation’s highest court since 1971. He holds six other honorary degrees

(his first was from W&L, in 1960). In center is Monrad G. Paulsen, dean of the new school.

WILLIAM Mc. ScHILDT (See 1964).

1969

MARRIAGE: H. Warp Dorer to Laura Ann
Degnan, in May, 1975, at the United Na-
tions Chapel in New York. Dorer, who holds
the M.B.A. degree from the Wharton School
of Business, works for Nabisco, marketing
breakfast cereals.

MARRIAGE: ROBERT ALEXANDER HULTEN to
Hillary Garrison on Feb. 28 in Short Hills,
N. J. Hulten is an assistant district attorney
for Queens County, N. Y. Mrs. Hulten is the
merchandise event director for Macy’s in
New York.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. BRITT MCJUNKIN, a
son, Carter Brittain, on Jan. 19, 1976. In
July the McJunkins expect to move to Pitts-
burgh, Pa., where Britt will be doing a two-
year fellowship in gastroenterology at the
University of Pittsburgh hospitals.

Dr. JOHN GREGORY SIMMONS is a resident at
Tulane University School of Medicine in
Maxillo-facial surgery and otolaryngology.

1971

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALBERT V. CARR JR.,
a son, Albert Van Devente III, on Dec. 30,
1975. Carr, formerly with the Nuclear Regu-
latory Commission Hearing Council, is now
practicing with the Washington, D. C., firm
of Shannon, Morley, and Morley.

JOSEPH BERNSTEIN, a third-year law student
at the University of Baltimore School of Law,
is a bill analyst with the House Appropria-
tions Subcommittee in the Maryland Gen-
eral Assembly.

‘THOMAS CARLETON BILLuPs JR. and HENRY
W. STEPHENSON JR., have started an invest-
ment advisory service, Stephenson, Billups &
Co. Their principle office is located at At-
las Plantation in Columbus, Miss.

JoHN D. COPENHAVER JR., is in Anaheim,
Calif., where he is working as a student mini-
ster at King’s Canyon National Park.

HucuH F. HIitv III and his wife are “surviv-
ing” their internship in the St. Louis Uni-
versity program. They will return to Vir-
ginia in the summer of 1976 when Sandy
Hill will begin her dermatology residency
at the Medical College of Virginia in Rich-
mond.

‘THOMAS B. HUDSON JR., after receiving his

J.D. degree from the University of Texas in
1974, is now a practicing attorney in the
Washington, D. C., firm of Baker & Botts.
He is married to the former Dianne Lindsay
of Dallas, Texas.

PHILIP CLINTON ‘THOMPSON (See 1968).

H. WILLIAM WALKER Jr. (See 1968).

1972

ROBERT J. HUMPHREYS of Wilmington has
been named Assistant Attorney General for
the State of Delaware.

Mery D. Moore has completed his military
service with the U. S. Navy and is now pur-
suing a law degree at the University of Vir-
ginia.

LT. Paut E. WEEKs is stationed at Ft. Rich-
ardson in Alaska.

1973

MARRIAGE: PETER J. FuReY to Kristine
Pustery on July 12, 1975. Furey is county,
state, and federal grants coordinator for the
Ocean County, N. J., Planning Board.

After completing two years service with the
U. S. Army, STEPHEN P. FLUHARTY is pur-
suing a master’s degree in mechanical en-
gineering at the University of South Florida.

RONALD T. GOLD, transferred to the 3D Ma-
rine Division in Okinawa, Japan, is perform-
ing duties as defense counsel, as Japanese
Jurisdiction Attorney and as Legal Assis-
tance Attorney. He plans to return to the
U.S. in November, 1976.

Lt. NicHOLAS P. GRANT has graduated from
flight training as a U. S. Army aviator at Ft.
Rucker, Ala. He plans to continue his career
as an intelligence officer and aviator in the
U. S. Army.

Conway HunTER will begin an M.F.A. pro-
gram at the Univ. of Southern California in
September, 1976. After graduation, he was
engaged in a major restoration project of a
historical edifice in Lexington. In January,
1975 he took a trip with DAvip KEELING, ’73,
to Corn Island, Nicaragua. Hunter is pre-
sently living in Athens, Ga.

JouHN LAURENS III is pursuing an M.B. from
the College of Architecture at Georgia Tech
University.

CHARLES D. PERRY JR. is associated with
Perry Supply Co., Inc. of Birmingham, Ala.,
and is also the managing officer of Charles

D. Perry Co. of Anniston, Ala. He is man-
aging general partner of the Birmingham
Businessman’s Association.

Davin A. POWERS works as assistant wrestling
coach at the University of Richmond while
finishing studies at the T. C. Williams
School of Law. Upon graduation in May, he
expects to work as a legislative assistant to
Sen. Harry F. Byrd in Washington, D.C.

A. RICHARD SOTELO is serving as the public
defender in Annapolis, Md.

WALTER J. WILKINS III is in his second year
at Austin (Texas) Theological Seminary and
working towards his Master of Divinity de-
gree.

ROBERT ALEXANDER HULTEN (See 1969).

1974

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, W. F. ETHERINGTON, a
son, Sanford Garland III, on Oct. 22, 1975.
Etherington is a practicing attorney in Rich-
mond, Va.

Gary C. BINGHAM was recently promoted to
actuarial assistant in the group actuarial
department, Massachusetts Mutual Life In-
surance Co., Springfield, Mass. Bingham is
an associate in the Society of Actuaries and
a member of the Boston and Hartford Ac-
tuaries Clubs. He resides in Holyoke, Mass.

KENT MASTERSON BROWN is a junior partner
with the law firm of Nunn, Odear & Arnold
in Lexington, Ky.

Douctas B. Hutton is publications editor of
Madison College in Harrisonburg, Va. He
works on Madison’s new public radio station
producing Earmontage, a weekly news,
music and public affairs program.

RoBERT L. JACKSON is employed as an analyt-
ical chemist for Ranger Fuel Co. of Beck-
ley, W. Va.

Tom A. MATTESKY, after a year as a staff wri-
ter for the Evening Sentinel in Carlisle, Pa.,
is now employed as a reporter for WDBJ-
TV in Roanoke.

LANE NALLEy received his M.B.A. in finance
from Georgia State University. He is ad-
ministrative manager of Nalley Motor
Trucks, Inc. of Atlanta, Ga.

Douctas J. NEWELL, formerly with the Hertz
Corp., has now joined the First and Mer-
chants National Bank in their trust tax de-
partment. He is headquartered in Rich-
mond, Va.

31

         

   

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pr |
granting “Teates on oil land.
state engineer f for Disinak

of i D orth ‘Caro
em, died Mar.

 

 

alti in the 1
lation : *exabishing the s
r During W

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

aybestos- Manhattan,

e

 

a

 

 

 

 

     

  

 

 

 

‘
‘ 7
.
at
7 -

 

me presi-
dent upon ‘the ‘death of ‘his father. In

an editorial

this week an

tion and a_

name is Lampt

honesty, integrity, t
Pieoneen ee Tt is

 
    

 

Another Bicentennial

oe oe Pb ond. “ as an re (els
Pieer eae Lite. ne age
ole ee Fi eS eee

 

aa Fader fin Fl
nf ¥ Sp a" ye

& ay a Cha grins: s
hace br mite 4 : el cit tn es
y opt Men! Dhearl gor © a oe

Sean: pane fare re plan han ®

 

for Ja fe « La: "7 Sia an.
co Sea! Z. e ee’ Fh. |
Page from the minutes of the trustees’ executive committee,

May 13, 1776, on which the name Liberty Hall is first
mentioned.

 

Washington and Lee University marks a very special
bicentennial of its own this spring: the 200th anniver-
sary of the name Liberty Hall. The tiny, struggling
classical school was just_27 years old in May 1776,
when its trustees adopted the new title—the first official
endorsement of independence by any educational
institution in the Colonies.

No one is certain exactly how, or even when, the
change came about. In the minutes of the trustees’
executive committee meeting May 8, 1776, the school
is still referred to as Augusta Academy. In the minutes
of the same committee five days later, however, the
institution is termed Liberty Hall.

According to William Henry Ruffner, editor of
Washington and Lee University Historical Papers I
(1890): “We are left to surmise as to just when and how
the change was made, but as the institution was then
not incorporated, probably there was no legal

 

William Graham, principal and later first rector of Liberty
Hall Academy. Was he the author of a “bold act of defiance’?

difficulty in the way of a change of name by anybody
having official control over the school. . This band
of patriots, as we may reasonably suppose, on the
occasion of [the May 13, 1776] meeting, gave to the
newly organized school the stirring name of Liberty
Hall Academy. Most likely the name was suggested by
Graham [William Graham, principal and later the

first rector of the institution, its chief officer in all
from 1774 to 1796].

“It was a bold act of defiance, for, up to this time,
the British flag floated over the capital of Virginia,
and it was nearly two months in advance of the Declara-
tion of Independence.”

A bold act, indeed. The trustees knew it; but they
felt compelled to accept the risk on behalf of their
precious heritage of freedom—and their conviction
that education was the surest guarantee of its
preservation.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Available Again

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

(Wedgwood)

 

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

 

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

 

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

