_. the alumni magazine of washington and lee university DECEMBER 1972

vw

 

 

  

 

      

 

» <a
Kew Seed

  
  
  

 

  

& . : ‘ sd a

      

. 2 noc es Bie coe wt *
‘ * MEE : we Pye &

   

* = ae SRR. : a
i

oy 63
é get ER

 
 

ey .

* pet Ne gE

   
 

 
 
   

 
 

 

 

  

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 47, Number 8, December 1972

William C. Washburn 740.0..0.00.0.00.0.cccccccccccscescsceseesee Edttor
Romulus T. Weatherman. ....................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68......0.00.0.00.0cccecceceeeees Associate Editor

Mrs. Joyce Carter... Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Annual Support Committee 200. ]

Class Agents Weekend ooo... cccccceeeccccceeee Z
Shenandoah and Its Editor. .0...00.0.0000ccccccceeece. 6
Campus News oi... oocccccceccceccccsecceesscceseceececeeee. 8
Paxton Honors Teachers 2.0.000000000.00.00cocccccccccccceeeee. 15
New Athletic Association 200.0000000.000cccocccccccccccceceee. 16
Fall Sports Activity oo... occcccccccccesececeeseseee. 17
OF ETS C0) 18
Tn Memoriam ooo... ccc eclceccecececececececeeeceeeeeeee. 22
Wilbur C. Hall, Benefactor 000000000000 24

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

A. CHRISTIAN CoMPTON, ’50, Richmond, Va.
President

Urton BEALL, ’51, Tyler, Texas
Vice President

T. Hat Crarke, 38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C, WAsHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

RICHARD D. Haynes, 58, Dallas, Texas
WILLIAM H. HIuier, ’38, Chicago, III.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, JRr., °58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce Hou6eu, III, 59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
‘THEODORE M. Kerr, 57, Midland, Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. ALvin PuILportt, ’45, Lexington, N.C.
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, ’55, New Orleans, La.
EVERETT ‘TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the cover: Outstanding cross-country runner
Stuart Nibley tops a rise near Liberty Hall. In
the background is House Mountain. Nibley’s
course is an access road which leads to the site
where ground is being prepared for the new law
building. Photo by Robert Lockhart.

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of
Congress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of
March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: WeL, The
Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee University is own-
ed by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., and is
entered as second class matter at the Post Office in Lexington,
Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges at Roa-
noke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn is editor and
business manager. His address is Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no bond, mort-
gage, or other security holders. The average number of copies
of each issue during the 12 preceding month was 15,500.

 

 

?
ats

 

i am >
a >» -*-
~ >
v
ape iy
a
!
i
Agel ie
p< me.
(es
ai -

 

Current Support Committee
added to Achievement Council

 

A Current Support Committee has been added to the
Washington and Lee Achievement Council, the group
formed by the Board of Trustees to spearhead the Uni-
versity’s effort to raise $56 million by 1980.

The Current Support Committee is the sixth com-
mittee of the Council, headed by Trustee John M. Stem-
mons of Dallas. Members of the new committee are
Sydney Lewis, chairman and a Trustee; James H. Bierer,
chairman of the Alumni Fund; Edwin J. Foltz, chair-
man of the Robert E. Lee Associates; and Robert A.
Hemm, chairman of the Parents’ Council.

The Current Support Committee will concentrate
its efforts on raising the remaining portion of the
$7,850,000 in current support required by the Univer-
sity as an integral part of the $56-million Development
Program. The committee will direct its attention to the
same constituencies during the 70’s as the other five
Achievement Council committees. ‘The other five com-
mittees have responsibility for these designated con-
stituencies: Alumni, Law Alumni, Parents, Foundations,
and Business and Industry.

The Board of Trustees has issued a statement that
asks all alumni, parents, and friends to make annual giv-
ing—gifts for current support—their first priority. Devel-
opment officials have emphasized that roughly one-half
of the University’s current support requirements through
the 70's need to be met through the Alumni Fund. ‘The
other one-half must come from parents, friends, founda-
tions, and corporations.

These officials have also pointed out that the projec-
tions in the Development Program of $7,850,000 for
current support and $24 million for endowment are
valid only if both succeed. To the extent that one
should fall short, the other would have to be larger.

The Current Support Committee will seek to co-
ordinate the efforts of all of Washington and Lee’s an-
nual giving volunteers and to give these men and
women a direct link to the Achievement Council and
the Board of ‘Trustees.

The Robert E. Lee Associates and its General’s Coun-
cil are not separate annual giving programs in them-
selves but are programs for recognizing exceptional giv-
ing and the means of assembling these donors and bring-
ing them into a closer relationship with the University.

December, 1972

 

Sydney Lewis

 

A weekend
of work and fun
for Class Agents

 

 

 

Twenty-five Class Agents, the Alumni Fund
Chairman, and all four of the newly appointed Vice

Chairmen came to Washington and Lee on Friday, ol
Sept. 22, for a weekend of work and fun. This was the

first weekend for Class Agents ever held at the Uni- .
versity, and the unanimous verdict of all who partici- _
pated was that it was an unqualified success. The pic-

tures on these and the following pages are a sampling +

 

of what went on.

Alumni Fund Chairman Jim Bierer, ’40, goes over plans for the 1972-73
Alumni Fund program with the vice chairmen.

 

Calvert Thomas, ’38A, vice chairman for
Academic Classes 1935-48, and Herbert
Jahncke, ’30A, vice chairman for Academic
Classes 1923-34.

 
  
  

John Stump, °57L, vice chairman for Law
Classes.

th

€
‘ fe

ts wl hg

wa_ Newt Harman, ’40L Class Agent, and his are.

wife greet friends during cocktails at the
President’s House.

ew
‘
~~

ww

 

Oliver Mendell, ’50A, (center), vice president for Academic Classes 1949-72, at workshop with ~
other Class Agents.

2 WeL

Photos by Robert Lockhart

 

Class Agents and their wives at the President’s House for cocktails
before dinner at Evans Dining Hall.

Class Agents Buck Ogilvie, ’64A, and Carter Fox, ’61A, exchange
ideas about running their class campaigns.

 

Charlie Smith, ’27L Class Agent, and Paul Absorbed in an exchange of views are Dick Smith, ’41A, and Everett Martin, ’37A.
Cavaliere, *48L Class Agent.

 

President Huntley talks with Evins Hamm, ’53A, and wife. Scott Mosovich, ’34, and Charles Tutwiler,
O44 °24L.

+ Pecember, 1972 3

 

 

SSAaataanoainge

 

 

Bob Brennan,

 

Agents ponder 1972-73 Alumni Fund
program at workshop.

 

 

 

... And so did Jim Bierer and President
Huntley.

Ld ; i

     

Lawson Turner, ’72L, Al Orgain, ’71L, and
Claude Carter, 59L, at workshop. we

 

Class Agents discuss plans at Saturday
morning workshop.

President Huntley ex plains why the Alumni Fund has top priority in the Development
Program for the ’70’s.

 

Before the football game, Class Agents had cocktails at the Alumni Charles Tutwiler, ’24L, gives a hand to Ethan Allen, ’31L,
House. during pre-game cocktails.

 

Matt Cole, ’71A, talks things over with President Huntley. From the President’s box, Agents watch W&L end Westminster’s
22-game winning streak.

 

 

Eee ee eames
. l =~ Ze j

 

mm he -
|
|
!
; " -
- a
t
ye!
ae ; he A a iene see iii ae #
\ ; ; 25, San OY
y Frank Parsons, “544, and Jerome Frampton, ’33L, and their wives chat Class Agents and wives gather for post-game cookout at home of Farris
j CE ee Hotchkiss, ’58, Director of Development.
s > “a
f > “>

Or

 

 

by Robert S. Keefe

The little quarterly that helps
Shape American literature

It was just 22 years ago that Shenan-
doah was born, a three-time-yearly
magazine initially designed principally
to provide students with an outlet for
serious literary writing—to become what
the Southern Collegian had been many
years before. At first it was edited by a
committee of undergraduates who were
advised by a member of the faculty,
and its principal content was the poetry,
the reviews, the essays, and stories of
Washington and Lee men.

Today, Shenandoah has become one
of America’s respected “little” quarter-
lies, the breed of magazine often (but
not always) connected with a respected
college or university, and which is
published for the sake of the art and
not for the dollar.

(The University hardly abandoned
the notion that its students deserve a
literary outlet of their own: Ariel is
their quarterly and four years ago it
was voted full membership on the stu-
dent Publications Board.)

Shenandoah has come of age in
W&L’s English department: James Boat-
wright, its respected editor, is professor
of English, and his two assistants—
Dabney Stuart, the we!l-known poet,
and Stephen H. Goodwin, a creative
young writer of fiction—are asociate
professor and instructor in English
respectively.

“Little” magazines are freed of the
pressures facing commercial publishers,
Boatwright points out—and enormous
pressures those are.

Financially, Shenandoah is secure,
though perhaps only barely so. Sub-
sidies from Washington and Lee are
crucial in that circumstance. Subscrip-
tions are $4 a year and provide some
revenue as well. So too do grants and

6

 

external subsidies, awarded for the

merit of the magazine. The latest is a

$2,500 grant from the Coordinating

Council of Literary Magazines. The

sum must be matched, however, and

not from its regular University subsidy—

and so that is one of Boatwright’s major

non-editorial tasks this winter.
Historically, America’s best writers

— Shenandoah

WINTER 1972

 

and poets—those whose talents have
influenced American letters most pro-
foundly—have “gotten their start” in
little magazines. More than a few of
those starts have been in Shenandoah.
In Volume I, Number I, there appeared
a story called “Shattered” by a W&L
student named T. K. Wolfe. Now he’s
known as Tom, and his books have titles

 

like Kandy Colored Tangerine-Flake
Streamline Baby and Radical Chic.
Flannery O’Connor was published early
in Shenandoah, and Washington and
Lee now has in its archives the corres-
pondence between her and Thomas H.
Carter, the student editor of the
magazine at the time. Reynolds Price,
one of the foremost Southern writers
now, was also “discovered” early by
Shenandoah, and in fact he is now an
advisory editor. (So is James Dickey, who
is also published frequently in Shen-
andoah.)

The little magazine takes the best
works of these people—and then doesn’t
remold them. “There is a kind of
freedom to experiment” in the quarter-
lies like Shenandoah, Editor Boatwright
comments, and as a result, it is precisely
these magazines—and the writers they
publish—that shape the whole of
American literature.

As its prominence has grown, the
number of manuscripts submitted has
grown too. Boatwright receives “maybe
1,000 fiction manuscripts” every year—
and personally judges each. He has to,
he says. Editing the magazine is necessar-
ily that personal an assignment. Two
or three thousand, poems come in every
year too, and Stuart likewise reads
them all—himself.

An unpleasant chore? On the contrary.
It keeps them intimate with much of
the best that is being written today
and with those who are writing it. And
not the least of the rewards is the
immense personal satisfaction. “The little
magazine receives whatever character it
has from the abilities and sensibilities
of its editors,’ he observes.

Which, of course, is exactly why
Shenandoah is where it is today.

WeL

aa

 

Jim Boatwright:
teacher, editor,

writers friend

 

 

 

A good literary magazine is often thought to be
a reflection of its editor, a sort of extension of himself.
So it seemed especially appropriate this fall that
the board of publishers of Shenandoah observed in a
resolution: “Under Jim Boatwright’s guidance and
direction Shenandoah has moved to a standing among
national literary publications [which led it to be
described recently] as ‘among the very best of the small
magazines’.”’

In addition to teaching English (modern American
and British poetry, creative writing, occasional survey
courses in American literature) and in addition to
editing and managing Shenandoah, Jim Boatwright
is extraordinarily active in American literary or-
ganizations. He serves as acting chairman of the Co-
ordinating Council of Literary Magazines, for instance,
and is a longtime member of its board and executive
committee; he’s a member of the Advisory Panel to
the Literary Program of the National Endowment for
Arts; he is chairman of the Censorship Committee of
the international PEN (Poets, Essayists, Novelists)
American division.

At Washington and Lee he is a member of the
Glasgow Committee and the Seminar in Literature
program committee. He has reviewed for the New York
Times Book Review and occasionally now for the New
Republic; he’s been published in Revue des Lettres
Modernes. He’s in near-constant correspondence with
America’s principal men and women in literature; the
Eudora Weltys and W. H. Audens who come to Wash-
ington and Lee (as both did last winter and spring)
do so largely because of Shenandoah and Jim
Boatwright. |

December, 1972

 

 

Not long ago he bought a home in the country
west of Lexington “with a beautiful view of the Blue
Ridge,” where he spends much of his away-from-the-
office time relaxing—generally reading or working.
Summers? He tries to head for Greece as frequently as
possible; he’s “fascinated by the Greek civilization
and culture.”

In spite of it all—or perhaps because of it all—he
remains one of Washington and Lee’s most popular
teachers—and one of its most demanding. “His” alumni,
who return frequently, speak of the courses they took
under Jim Boatwright as among their most rewarding

experiences at Washington and Lee.
R.S.K.

 

 

 

=

 

sect

i

Sa

SS

tases,

 

 

_ sin

6th

ibe

a

eae
te
ee
es

ue
rate
poem

be

ees

opt
a) se
re m

ae

a 2
a

 

ae

za

a

  
 
   

    
        

Ti

 

The University began its 224th aca-
demic year in September—a year high-
lighted by a record enrollment, the ma-
triculation of the first women in the
School of Law, the beginning of construc-
tion on a new $7-million law building,
and continuing planning for other con-
struction projects.

At the opening convocation in new
Doremus Gymnasium, President Huntley
called upon students, faculty, and _ staff
to maintain a “community of trust and
simultaneously to pursue academic ex-
cellence” in the face of extensive physi-
cal improvements on the campus.

Total enrollment in the University’s
three divisions is 1,685, the largest in his-
tory. The breakdown is 1,172 in the Col-
lege, 248 in the School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Politics, and 265 in the
School of Law—also a record for that divi-
sion. The enrollment includes 386 fresh-
men, the largest number ever at W&L.

The six women admitted to the School
of Law are the first women to pursue a
Washington and Lee degree. There have
been other women students, principally
in the Eight-College Exchange Program,
involving W&L and other sing!e-sex in-
stitutions in the area. Women also have
traditionally been allowed to _ audit
courses and earn transfer credit. Women
have received honorary degrees from
W&L, and one, Mrs. Alfred I. duPont,
was a member of the Board of Trustees
for many years. But never before has a
woman been eligible to receive an earned
degree from the University.

Coeducation is limited to the School
of Law. No determination has yet been
made on the question of admitting wom-
en as degree candidates in the under-
graduate schools.

Seventeen students are attending W&L

December, 1972

this year under the Eight-College Ex-
change Program. One is a man from
Hampden-Sydney College, and the others
are women, mostly from Hollins College.
The exchange students are attending for
the full year or for one or two terms.
Under the program, credit earned at
W&L is transferred to their “home” in-
stitutions.

The President, at the opening convo-
cation, emphasized what he believes is a
crucial question facing W&L today as
physical growth takes place. He cited the
graduation speech last June of Steve
Robinson, president of the Student Body,
who said that problems with the Honor
System and the passing of bad checks in
Lexington had indicated that the word
of “W&L men is no longer taken with
trust at face value.”

“We may be in danger,” President
Huntley said, “of losing those intangible
qualities which make the Washington
and Lee community such a fertile envir-
onment.” He said there seemed to be
some ‘dichotomy between the pursuit
of academic excellence and the _ preser-
vation of a community of trust.”

“There can be only one answer to this
duality,” he said. ““These two must. be
reconciled

9?

The challenge must be
met.

Clearing of the site for the new law
building—immediately to the north of
Wilson Field on previously undeveloped
land—has already begun. The University
wil ask for bids on the building this fall,
and construction may begin before the
end of the year. Funding of the new law
building was assured last spring by the
$9-million gift by Frances and Sydney
Lewis of Richmond. The law building
will be known as Lewis Hall in their

honor, and an endowed center for inno-

vative legal studies, also made _ possible
by their gift, will be named for Frances
Lewis.

Other projects expected to come under
contract within the year include the con-
struction of 30 married student apart-
ments in the general vicinity of Liberty
Hall, the construction of upperclass
housing for 168 students along the Woods
Creek side of the new law school access
road between the Footbridge and the
existing maintenance building, and the
relocation of the maintenance building
itself.

Advanced planning will continue this
year on a new undergraduate library as
well as on other projects included in the
current decade-long $56-million Develop-
ment Program. The University has al-
ready raised $19.2 million in the effort,
more than half of the initial goal of $36
million by the American Bicentennial in
1976.

 

Greater Student Voice

 

At its autumn meeting, the University
Board of ‘Trustees voted unanimously to
invite the president of the W&L. stu-
dent body to attend every regular board
meeting with full privileges except vot-
ing. Until now, the Student Body Presi-
dent has been invited simply to present a
special report and ask and answer ques-
tions at a single point during two regular
board meetings each year.

The new level of student participation
reflects “the conviction that student body
leadership at Washington and Lee has
been consistently responsible and intelli-
gent,” President Robert E. R. Huntley
said in informing students of the board’s
action.

The University’s student government

9

 

SOT NNN OLE LOT TTT

 

 

 

Campus News

 

twice has asked the board to consider
addition of the student body president
as an ex officio member of the board. In
his statement, President Huntley said
the board agreed that the student presi-
dent should have a more significant role
in its discussions. The only portions of
board meetings in which the student
president will not participate will be
those specified by the board itself. The
new policy will be inaugurated at the
board’s winter meeting scheduled for
Atlanta, Ga., in February.

Under the old policy, student body
presidents were invited to present reports
at the two board meetings held in Lex-
ington. The new policy stipulates that
the student president will be invited to
attend the traditional out-of-town board
meeting as well, at University expense.

An editorial comment in the Ring-tum
Phi, said: ‘““What this means is that a
student voice will be heard on crucial
issues. .. . The importance of this change
should be obvious. While it may not
translate into real student power in de-
termining University policy, it does go a
long way in providing considerable stu-
dent influence.”

 

 

Student Bar Officers

 

Officers of the Student Bar Associa-
tion for the fall semester are Malcolm
Theodore H.
Lawrence H.

H. Squires, president;
Ritter, vice

Framme III, secretary; and Donald R.

president :

Johnson, treasurer.

 

GOP’s Roll Caller

 

The lady with the most widely heard
voice in America for three days in Au-
gust may well have been Mrs. Tobin

10

Armstrong of Armstrong, Tex., mother
of Washington and Lee sophomore Bar-
clay Armstrong. Mrs. Armstrong is co-
chairman of the National Republican
Committee, and in that capacity she
called the roll of the states for nomina-
tions and voting throughout the GOP

convention in Miami Beach.

 

Projects Manager Brady

 

Douglas E. (Pat) Brady, superintendent
of buildings and grounds, has assumed
additional responsibilities as projects
manager in connection with the capital
construction portion of W&L’s current
$56-million Development Program.

James L. Arthur, previously assistant
superintendent, has become associate
superintendent and assumes day-to-day
responsibility for direction of the 65-
member staff. James Brown, an 18-year
veteran of the staff, was named assistant

superintendent, succeeding Arthur.

In his new capacity, Brady will be

 

Washington and Lee’s representative in
all construction projects, including the
new $7-million School of Law facility to
be constructed in the near future, a new
$5-million undergraduate library,  sev-
eral hundred new student housing units,
and major remodeling of existing campus
facilities. He will also serve as liaison
between the University and contractors
in all satellite projects, such as road-
building, utility development and
ground-clearing. Development of roads
and site preparation has already begun
on the new building, and construction is
expected to begin early in 1973. Brady
will also continue to play a_ principal
role in physical planning activities at
the University.

Capital construction accounts for $24.2
million in the decade-tong Development
Program, approximately half the $56-
million total. With last spring’s $9-mil-
lion gift from Frances and Sydney Lewis
of Richmond, the law building has al-

ready been funded. Almost $2 million

Projects Manager Brady keeps a close eye on law building site preparation.

> dele

has been committed to the undergradu-
ate library. Other major physical pro-
jects in the Development Program are in
various stages of planning and funding.

Also in the Development Program,
and now under Mr. Brady’s supervision
as projects manager, is the $3-million
addition to Doremus Gymnasium put into
operation last winter. Brady’s duties will
include supervision of operations in con-
nection with completion of that project.

A 1937 B.A. graduate of W&L, Brady
has been buildings and grounds superin-
tendent since 1947. He was Lexington’s
mayor from its incorporation as a city in
1966 until 1971.

Arthur, named to head the day-to-day
operations of the buildings and grounds
division at the University, has been as-
1968. He
joined the University staff in 1964. Brown,

sistant superintendent since

newly named assistant superintendent,
worked his way through the ranks from
custodian to painting foreman, the posi-
tion he fil’ed prior to his promotion.

 

ROTC Exchange

The W&L faculty recently approved a

 

request from the military science depart-
ment to permit students from any col-
lege in the region that has no Reserve
Officer Training Corps (ROTC) program
of its own to take ROTC courses at
W&L.

Credits earned at Washington and Lee
under the plan wil be apptied at the
student’s “home” college, just as in the
Eight-College Exchange Program, under
which students may spend up to a full
year taking a full load of academic pro-
grams at any of the participating institu-
tions.

The ROTC program will be a more

December, 1972

comprehensive exchange opportunity be-
cause no restrictions will be imposed on
the eligibility of other colleges, Maj.
William J. Dragozetich, acting head of
the department at W&L, observed.

in the ROTC
program at Washington and Lee will be
eligible for the full range of benefits, in-
cluding the $100-a-month allowance paid
to students at the third-and fourth-year

Students who enroll

levels in the program. They will also be
eligible to compete for U. S. Army schol-
arships, which cover a student’s full tui-
tion and book bill for an entire academic

year.

 

Deferred Giving Director

 

Edward O. Henneman, formerly an as-
sociate in the New York City law firm of
Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts,
has been named director of deferred giv-
ing programs and associate director of
development at Washington and Lee.
He began work in September.

Henneman is a specialist in trust and
estate law. He is a magna cum laude gra-
duate of Yale University and received his
LL.B. degree from Harvard University
in 1962.

At W&L, Henneman will administer
a wide range of programs designed to
provide tax-saving methods of making
gifts to the University, such as pooled-
income and other trust agreements. He
will also provide liaison with the 42-
member Estate Planning Council, com-
posed of alumni throughout the nation.
The council is headed by Martin P.
Burks, a 1932 W&L law graduate who is
now general counsel for the Norfolk &
Western Railway in Roanoke.
Robert
who resigned as W&L’s deferred giving

Henneman _ succeeds Liggitt,

 

Edward O. Henneman

director to accept a similar position at
Converse College.

 

Famed TV Series Shown

 

The famed British television series
Civilisation was shown in Lexington in
W&L’s

sponsorship of the art department. The

duPont Auditorium under the
13 chapters in the acclaimed series were
screened on successive Tuesday evenings
beginning in September.

Created, written, and produced by the

distinguished historian Sir Kenneth
Clark, Cuvvilisation traces the develop-
ment of Western culture, ideas, and

events over a span of 16 centuries. Man’s

most exquisite paintings, architecture,
sculpture, and music accompany the nar-
rative, illustrating a common heritage.

Grants from Xerox Corp. and the Na-

1]

 

Campus News

 

tional Endowment for the Humanities
have enabled presentation of the series as
a public service.

 

Stuart 1s Visiting Poet

 

See omen

 

 

 

Dabney Stuart, professor of English
and poetry editor of Shenandoah, W&L’s
literary magazine, initiated the second
year of the Visiting Poets Series at Vir-
ginia Wesleyan College. He read selec-
tions from his two collections of poetry,
Diving Bell and A Particular Place.

Stuart, who has also published poetry
in many periodicals, including Poetry
and New Yorker, has been teaching at
W&L since 1965.

 

Lectures by Phillips

 

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor
of economics and an authority in the
field of governmental utilities regulation,
lectured in September at the Irving
Trust Co.’s week-long Public Utilities
Financial Seminar. He was one of two
col-ege professors invited to participate.

In October, Dr. Phillips conducted
twin seminars in regulation and_ the
economic characteristics of the natural
gas industry. The seminars were spon-
sored by the Panhandle Eastern Pipe-
line Co. of Houston and Kansas City.

Dr. Phillips, the author of several texts
and a consultant to several utilities and
financial organizations, has taught at
W&L since 1959.

 

Frat Honors Turner

 

 

Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor of
history, was awarded Lambda Chi Alpha’s
Order of Merit award at the fraternity’s
33rd general assembly and_ leadership

12

 

 

A Retirement Surprise

 

For 30 years Mrs. Mildred Brownlee worked in the W&L Office of Admis-
sions. In September, she retired and received a little surprise. At a party for
her, she was given a clock she had long admired in the office. With her above
are Dean Emeritus Frank J. Gilliam, under whom she worked for two decades:
Special Advisor to the President R. N. Latture; Admissions Director James D.
Farrar; and University President Robert Huntley.

 

 

Wel

« &

-s
a
—

seminar in Portland, Ore., in August.
The award is conferred by the fraternity’s
board of directors who single out mem-
bers of the fraternity whose work within
the organization has not been publicly
acclaimed.

Since 1947, Dr. Turner has served the
Lambda Chi Alpha chapter at W&L in
such positions as chapter advisor, alumni
advisory board member, house corpora-
tion secretary-treasurer, financial advisor,
and a!umni association secretary-treasur-
er. This record of 25 years of continuous
service in all these functions is unpre-
cedented in the W&L chapter and is one
of the most outstanding in the general
fraternity.

 

Yevich Reports Votes

 

Robert H. Yevich, manager of the
Laboratory Press division of the Univer-
sity’s journalism department, was Vir-
ginia state manager for the joint election-
reporting service of the three national
television networks and the two major
wire services.

Yevich, a 1970 graduate of Washing-

ton and Lee, took a two-month leave of
absence from his duties at the Univer-
sity to organize the massive tallying en-
Central
operation were in Richmond.

terprise. offices for the state

Returns were counted and reported by
News Election Service both on a precinct-
by-precinct and county-by-county basis.
Yevich supervised more than 2,300 em-
pioyees and worked closely with clerks
and electoral boards in each Virginia

county and independent city.

 

Baremore Scholars

 

Lawrence E. Evans Jr., a senior from
Pasadena, Tex., and Bryan E. McNeill,
a junior from New Orleans have been
awarded honor scholarships in memory
of the late Tommy Mac Baremore, an
outstanding debater at Washington and
Lee who died in a drowning accident in
1968 shortly before he was to graduate.

The scholarship was established by
Baremore’s mother, Mrs. R. E. Baremore
of Shreveport, La., and a number of her
son’s friends. Baremore was a leading de-
bater in each of his years at W&L and

 

Pennies from Heaven?

 

We have a little story that should instill some hope back into the hearts of
those despairing friends of the W&L Honor System. The other day, the man-

ager of the Bookstore decided to try to attract some of the Commerce School

jocks.

Well, what better way to attract young businessmen other than to shower
the display table with money. So amidst copies of The Wall Street Jungle and

Up the Organization, Mrs. Munger (manager) arranged a dollar’s worth of

pennies.

Several days later, just for fun, the coins were counted. It turned out that

the total had become $1.30.

So, Watchdogs of the Honor System, take heart; your baby is not only alive

and kicking in the Bookstore, but it’s accruing interest as well.

December, 1972

—An Editorial in the Ring-tum Phi

had qualified the debate team for the
National Invitational Debate ‘Tourna-
ment only one day before his death. ‘The
faculty voted him a posthumous B. A.
degree in recognition of his achievements
as a student.

Both scholarship holders are members
of the debate team. Evans is president
of the team and of the University’s Pre-
Law Society. He is also chairman of the
Student Recruitment
Neill is a Dean’s List student, a member

Committee. Mc-

of Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity, and on
the staff of the student-operated radio
station, WLUR-FM. Evans is majoring
in politics, and McNeill in German and
history.

 

New Book by Spencer

 

Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, professor of
geology and head of the department, is
the author of a new book, The Dyna-
mics of the Earth, published by Thomas
Y. Crowell Co. of New York. It is the
fourth of Dr. Spencer’s books to be
published by Crowell.

Another publisher, McGraw Hill, has
re-issued Dr. Spencer’s Introduction to
the Structure of the Earth in paperback
as part of its international series. The
publication was in response to foreign
interest in the text, first published in
1969.

Dr. Spencer, a W&L graduate, has been
a member of the faculty since 1957. He
holds the Ph.D. in geology from Colum-
bia University.

 

Debate Season Opens

 

The debate team opened its season in
September by being host to the Washing-
ton and Lee University Invitational De-

13

 

 

——

7

ee ee

oe

_=-

 

 

 

 

- 7 -
- 7 7
- - :
’
.
-
. 7 - >
.
: : Ee
.
2 be
oe :
-
.
- ‘ f,

 

    

 

ed

the
rored by Gov.
tht) and Mrs. Holton

 

 

 

 

=

 

a
:

  
  

 
 

4
a

 

 

1e nation’s capital,

   

 

 

 

;

y

tt
‘

Robert Paxton dedicates
book to former teachers

Dr. Robert O. Paxton, a 1954. gradu-
ate of Washington and Lee, is the au-
thor of a major new book on Vichy
France. He dedicated the work to three
of his former teachers, two of them W&L
professors—Dr. William A. Jenks and Dr.
James G. Leyburn. The other is Henry
W. Bragdon, under whom Dr. Paxton
studied at Phillips Exeter Academy. The
dedication cites them as “teachers, schol-
ars, exemplars.”

The book is entitled Vichy France:
Old Guard and New Order, 1940-1944
and was published by Alfred A. Knopf.
It was chosen as an alternate se‘ection
for November by the History Book Club.

Dr. Paxton, a native of Lexington, is
now professor of history at Columbia
University. Before that, he taught at the
University of California at Berkeley and
at the State University of New York at
Stony Brook. He was valedictorian at
Washington and Lee and a Rhodes Schol-
ar at Oxford, where he received an M. A.
degree. He received his Ph.D. degree
from Harvard.

Dr. Jenks is William R. Kenan, Jr.,
professor of history at W&L and head of
the department; Dr. Leyburn is profes-
sor emeritus of sociology and was dean
of the University from 1947 to .1955. Dr.
Leyburn retired from teaching last June.

The book is an important contribu-
tion in the field of modern Western Eu-
ropean history. The jacket says of the
work:

“Uncompromising, often startling,
meticulously documented—this book is
an account of the government, and the
governed, of co‘laborationist France.

“Basing his work on captured German
archives and contemporary materials
rather than on self-serving postwar me-
moirs or war-trial testimony, Professor

December, 1972

 

Dr. Robert O. Paxton

Paxton maps out the complex nature of
the ill-famed Vichy government, showing
that it in fact enjoyed mass participation.
The majority of Frenchmen in 1940 fear-
ed social disorder as the worst imaginable
evil and rallied to support the state,
thereby bringing about the betrayal of
the nation as a whole.

‘The book lays bare the power struggle
between Petain, Laval, and Darlan, their
relationships with the Germans, and La-
val’s attempts to nudge a suspicious Hit-
ler toward a_ Franco-German alliance
against Britain; it looks at their social
reforms, some good, some farcical, and re-
veals that their programs, included the
persecution of the Jews, emanated less
from any compulsion on the German
side than from long-festering internal
conflicts; it examines the (belated) rise of

the Resistance and the deadly enmity of

 

Dr. James G. Leyburn

 

 

EPHH « 1700 wo isi4c. _

Dr. William A. Jenks

General de Gaulle to the regime.
conclusions are
that

“Professor Paxton’s

devastating—he proves collabora-
tionist Vichy France, contrary to com-
forting myth, obtained for Frenchmen no
better treatment than that accorded to
the fully occupied nations, and that its
very sovereignty turned out to be a ne-
gotiating liability rather than a trump.
As a result, his book also sheds consider-
abie light on French politics and the
fate of the country since the war.”

Dr. Paxton lectured at Washington
and Lee in 1969 under the sponsorship
of the University Center in Virginia. His
subject was “General de Gaulle: The
General as World Strategist.” He is also
the author of Parades and Politics at
Vichy: The French Officer Corps under
Marshal Petain, published in 1966 by

the Princeton University Press.

15

 

 

 

 

The three fall sports at Washington
and Lee—football,
soccer—were doing well at the end of
October. The football team had a 3-3
record, the cross-country team had only

cross-country, and

two losses, and the soccer team had a
creditable record of 4-1-2.

In _ football, defeated
Westminster College, 21-14, in the first

the Generals
game, ending Westminster’s string of
22 victories, the longest regular season
winning streak in the co'lege division.
W&L overwhelmed Towson State, 538-0,
and won a Homecoming victory, 35-25,
over a persistent Sewanee team. The
losses were to Centre, 15-14, to a very

Chappy Conrad hauls in winning TD pass

December, 1972

Fall sports
are off

to good start

strong Hampden-Sydney team, 34-6, and
to Western Maryland, 29-7. Remaining
on the schedule were Southwestern, Deni-

son, and Washington University.

The cross-country runners seemed
headed for a brilliant season, led by
sophomore sensation Stu Nibley and

backed by the best depth in many years.
The team had suffered only two setbacks
at the end of October, losing to Bridge-
water in a direct meeting and coming
in second to Bridgewater in a Virginia
Athletic
W&L in which seven teams participated.

Association meet at

College

The team defeated Centre, won over all
other teams in a four-way meet at Roa-

against Westminster..

Cross-country Coach Dick

noke College, and recorded victories over
VMI and Davidson. Nibley set a new
record in his first intercollegiate meet at
He shaved 19

Centre course record, touring the four-

Centre. seconds off the
mile course in 21:05. He also led the vic-
tories over VMI and Davidson.

‘The

experience returning from last year, had

soccer team, with considerable

wins over Eastern Mennonite, Lynch-
burg, VMI, and Randolph-Macon. The
team tied Indiana University and Roa-
noke, and lost only to Madison College.

A fuller roundup of fall sports activi-
ties will appear in a later issue of the

magazine.

 

Miller ponders strategy.

17

 

Le -

 

\¢

 

Meeting without prior
design on vacation at
Myrtle Beach, S.C. were
members of the Class of
1949: John Schoenfeld,
Matt Paxton Jr., and
W. Hugh Moomaw.

chasing field, most recently with the Airco
Speer Carbon-Graphite Co. of Niagara Falls.
He has been a member of the Purchasing
Management Association of Buffalo since

1963.
1946

Bric. GEN. Guy E. HAIRSTON JR. is com-
mander of the School of Military Science at
Lackland Air Force Base, Tex. His recent
assignments included deputy commander,
504th Tactical Air Support Group in Viet-
nam. He returned to the United States in

October, 1970.
1948

LesLic F. JAMES has retired and lives in
Bradenton, Fla. He was associated for 17
years with the CPA firm of Bosserman, Alt,
James & Stickly in Waynesboro, Va.

1949

H. DE BAUN BRYANT, general counsel and
secretary of Brown & Williamson ‘Tobacco
Co. in Louisville, Ky., has been elected a
vice president, in charge of the legal staff
and public relations department.

LUTHER W. Wuite III has been elected vice
president of the Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges. The foundation is a
joint fund supported by contributions from
business and industry, which are shared by
12 privately controlled four-year colleges
in Virginia, including Washington and Lee.

1950

JoHN H. McCorMack Jr. has been elected a
trustee of Jacksonville University, in Jack-
sonville, Fla. McCormack is first vice presi-
dent and director of the Atlantic National
Bank of Jacksonville and chairman of the
board of Springfield Atlantic Bank in Jack-
sonville and the Atlantic National Bank of
West Palm Beach, Fla.

1951

Rogpert E. GLENN of Roanoke, Va., has been
appointed to the board of Radford Col-
lege by Gov. Linwood Holton. Glenn is a
practicing attorney in Roanoke and_ will
serve on the board for a four-year term.

A. STEVENS MILEs has been named president
of the First National Bank of Louisville,
Ky. Miles joined First National in 1954 and
became executive vice president of the bank-
ing division in 1969.

December, 1972

 

Judge Turk

J. Puitie THELIN has been promoted to vice
president of the metropolitan and regional
division for the First National Bank of Com-
merce in New Orleans. Thelin joined First
National in 1968. He attended Georgetown
University’s School of Foreign Service.

Loe

ROLAND E. THOMPSON, a builder and land
developer in Fairfax, Va., has been appoint-
ed by Gov. Holton to the board of visitors
of Longwood College in Farmville, Va.
Thompson is also a director of the First Vir-
ginia Bank and a member of the Fairfax
Chamber of Commerce.

S. MAYNARD TuRK, a member of the board
of visitors of Radford College, was recently
named rector of the board. Turk is a practic-
ing attorney in Wilmington, Del.

1953

SEN. WILLIAM E. Brock III was awarded an
honorary degree of Doctor of Laws by King
College of Bristol, Va., during graduation
exercises in late May. Brock is serving his
first term in the U. S. Senate after eight
years in the House of Representatives. He is

 

Judge Widener

a member of the Committee on Government
Operations, of the Banking, Housing, and
Urban Affairs Committee, and of the Na-
tional Commission on Consumer Finance.
In 1969, he led a campus task force of con-
gressmen to many college campuses to listen
to the ideas of young people. Throughout
his public and private career, Sen. Brock has
been a leader in civic activities in Chat-
tanooga, Tenn.

Kermit E. HuNnbLEY has been named presi-
dent of Mercantile National Bank of In-
diana in Hammond. He succeeds Benton M.
Wakefield, ’41. Prior to joining Mercantile,
Hundley was vice chairman and chief exe-
cutive officer of Citizens Bank and ‘Trust
Co. in Park Ridge, Ill. He began his bank-
ing career in Charleston, W.Va. with the
Charleston National Bank in 1949. After
graduation from law school, Hundley _be-
came an officer in the trust department of
Charleston National Bank. In 1956, he be-
came senior vice president and executive
trust officer of Houston (Tex.) Bank and
Trust Co. Hundley has lectured widely and
is a contributing author to the South Texas
Law Journal.

ALDEN M. PITARD is the industrial and labor

 

Two Law Alumni Are Named to Federal Judgeships

 

Two alumni of the Washington and
Lee School of Law were tapped in Sep-
tember by President Nixon for places in
the federal judiciary. Judge H. Emory
Widener Jr. of Bristol, Va., Class of 1953,
was appointed to the Richmond-based
4th U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals, and
State Sen. James C. Turk of Radford,
Va., Class of 1952, was named to succeed
Judge Widener on the bench of the
U. S. District Court for Western Virginia.

Judge Widener had been on the Wes-
tern District bench since July, 1969, and
had been senior judge since 1970. He
graduated from the U. S. Naval Acad-
emy and saw regular naval duty during
World War II before entering law school
at W&L. After graduation, he practiced
law with his father, who was one of the

few Republican lawyers in the old Demo-
cratic-dominated Ninth District in South-
west Virginia. Judge Widener is a close
friend and adviser of U. S. Rep. William
C. Wampler.

Sen. Turk received his undergraduate
degree from Roanoke College before at-
tending law school. He was elected to the
Virginia Senate in 1959, the only public
office he ever sought, and was the GOP’s
Senate minority leader. In 1969, he was
co-chairman of Gov. Linwood Holton’s
successful campaign for governor. He
was a member of a Radford law firm
that has produced two high judges: Rich-
ard Poff, a former Republican congress-
man who is on the Virginia Supreme
Court and Ted Dalton, who was a U. S.
District judge until his retirement.

19

 

SS

 

 

 

 

— ; a am em a ee ~ OO = rm oN ee me me ee mem ce a
. : : ; - - ae

 

 

 

IT. T. Moore Jr., ’63 M. F. Rose, *63

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ALAN M. CorRWwIN, a
daughter, Lisa Anne, on Aug. 5, 1972. Cor-
win is temple educator for Temple Beth
Sholom in Santa Ana, Calif. He is respon-
sible for a varied program including ad-
ministration and supervision of a_ school
With an enrollment of approximately 500
students.

1963

Joun P. Harcourt has been appointed as-
sistant secretary to Gov. Nelson Rockefeller
of New York. He had been serving as special
program associate on the governor’s staff. He
worked in banking before joining the gov-
ernor’s staff in 1970.

Tuomas T. Moore Jr. of Charlotte, N. C.
has been promoted to assistant vice president
at North Carolina National Bank. He join-
ed NCNB in 1967 after two years on active
duty with the U. S. Army. Moore has been
a systems planning officer at the bank.

MEADE F. Rose has been promoted to an
assistant vice president of the Philadelphia
National Bank. He joined the bank in 1966.

Until May, 1971, SHERWooD W. WISsE Jr.
was at the Swiss Federal Institute of Tech-
nology in Zurich on a_ postdoctoral fellow-
ship. He then spent two months at sea
aboard the deep sea drilling project’s D/V
Glomay Challenger as a staff micropaleon-
tologist. Wise has now joined the faculty at
Florida State University as an assistant pro-
fessor, teaching geology, oceanography, and
micropaleontology.

1964

MARRIED: Freverick H. HULETT to Martha
J. Rinehart on June 10, 1972. The couple
lives in Meridian, Miss., where he is vice
president of Hulett Furniture Co.

WILLIAM McC. Scnuitpt, who until Aug. |
was an associate dean of students and co-
ordinator of the freshman year at Wash-
ington and Lee, is now an associate of the
law firm of Miles & Stockbridge in Balti-
more. He graduated from the W&L Law
School with honors in 1968 and had _ been
associated with the University until he be-
gan the practice of law.

JOHN E. MICHAELSEN has been promoted to
the position of vice president for U. S.
Guaranty Capital, a wholly-owned lending
subsidiary of U. S. Financial Inc. Michael-

December, 1972

 

sen, who directs the loan underwriting for
the firm, joined USGC in 1971.

1965

Wooparpd D. OpeNno for the past year has
participated in archaeological excavations
in Salamis, Cypress, and Corinth, Greece.
He studied at the America School of Classi-
cal Studies at Athens and then returned
there in the fall to work on his Ph.D. dis-
sertation for the art history department of
the University of Michigan.

1966

MARRIED: JAMES GREGG BUCKEY to Mari-
lyn Meyers of Akron, Ohio, on June 24,
1972. Buckey attended the University of
Cincinnati Law School and served in the
Coast Guard. The couple lives in Boston,
Mass.

MARRIED: NATHAN’ VY. HENDRICKS to
Kathryn Andrea Barnes on Aug. 19, 1972 in
Griffin, Ga. Among the groomsmen were
Douglas C. Morrison, ’67, Peter Kintz, ‘66,
J. D. Humphries III, ’66, and Joseph L.
Churchill, 69. Hendricks is associated with
the Atlanta law firm of Morris, Redfern &
Butler.

MARRIED: SHAUN S. DONAHOE to Paula
Stanley on May 27, 1972 in Apalachicola,
Fla. Donahoe is employed by the U. S.
Department of Agriculture and is working
on a moth control project. He is also a
commercial oyster fisherman.

MARRIED: Epwarp B. CRosLANpd Jr. and
Martha Mallory Stewart on Aug. 5, 1972.
Ed is an attorney with the Securities Ex-
change Commission, presently on loan to the
Senate Banking Committee.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN R. BurRK, a sec-
ond daughter, Jennifer Lynn Burk, on July
21, 1972. Dr. Burk is in his second year of
residency at Ochsner Foundation Hospital
in New Orleans.

JAY Bowersox has been promoted by C&P
‘Telephone Co. to commercial manager in
Easton, Md. Jay reports he has a new cot-
tage on the Tred Avon River in historic Ox-
ford, complete with sailboat, crab pots, and
more.

Dr. C. BARRETT ALLDREDGE is stationed with
the U. S. Army at Fort Gordon in Augusta,
Ga. His specialty is otolaryngology.

After five and a half years of service with
the U. S. Army Corps of Engineers, BRUCE
P. Cooper is now taking graduate engineer-
ing studies at Old Dominion University in
Norfolk.

PeTER M. pe MANio, former judge of the
criminal court, Orange County, Fla., has
been elected to a six-year term as Judge,
Circuit Court Ninth Judicial Circuit, ef-
fective January, 1973.

1967

MARRIED: WHucH WHARTON Scott II to
Elizabeth Anne Hoke on Aug. 17, 1972, in
Laramie, Wyo. The couple will make their
home in Laramie, where Mrs. Scott is at-
tending the University of Wyoming.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH M. GREENE,
a daughter, Diane Allison Greene, on July
12, 1972. The young lady joins an older sis-
ter. The family lives in Virginia Beach,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Puitie L. CLINE, a son,
Benjamin Lee Cline, on Feb. 29, 1972. Cline
is currently working towards his doctorate
in economics at Oklahoma State University.
He is a part-time instructor and an NDEA
fellow.
ANDREW N. BAtr has been elected a_ vice
president of Mercantile Trust Co. in St.
Louis, Mo. Prior to joining Mercantile, he
was with the First National Bank of At-
lanta, Ga.

After receiving an MBA from Harvard in
June, PHILANDER P. CLAxTON III is currently
associated with Davidge and Co. in Wash-
ington, D. C. He is also president of Uni-
versity Enterprises, Ltd. and is attending
Georgetown University Law School.

1968

MARRIED: Lars H. Horan to Jane Ellen
Egan on July 29, 1972, in Rockford, Hl.
Holtan is a system representative for Honey-
well Information Systems, Inc.

MARRIED: Artuur M. MEYER Jr. to Kathy
Lynn Magee on Aug. 26, 1972 in Dallas.
Meyers attends the University of Texas
Law School in Austin.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Ropert A.

a son, James Kearns Cashill, on
1972.

CASHILL,
May 23,

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. LEWIS, a

21

 

Class Notes

 

oe tone. Rebecca Dollins Lewi is, on Aug.

, 1972. Lewis is a practicing attorney with
the firm of. ae and Titeny in Warren-
ton, Va.

“BORN: Mr. and Mrs. ARNOLD STEPHAN
GRANpis, a daughter, Evelyn _ Francina, on
Dec. 31, 1971. Arnold is in his fifth year at
Duke Medical Center. He expects to com-
plete his genetics. research in June, 19738,
and receive a Ph.D. in biochemistry.

Recently promo ed Lr James W. WHITE-—

HEAD JR. is stationed aboard the U. S. Navy
Aircraft Carrier John F. Kennedy now in
the Mediterranean, me is a L radar intercept
officer, Me |

 

A. Ropnry Boren is enrolled at - Thunder-
bird Graduate School of International Man-

agement in Glendale, Ariz. The school,

founded in 1946, is devoted exclusively to _
pean ‘men and “women for international

careers.

| 969

| MARRIED: Siete “SHARP to” Lynn Cawley
“30, 1971 in Denton, Md. Sharp is

    

curren
eral Counsel, Federal ~ Communications Com-
mision in Washington, D. C. He expects to
receive his J.D. degree at the University. of
‘Virginia in Decem re 1972. 7

MA RRIED: Ray ve
M. Hock (Hollins, 69) on June 17, 1972, in
Richmond, Va. Among: the groomsmen were
classmates: John L. Johnson and William H.
Graddy. Having c mpleted military service
with the U. S. Navy, H
Law School in September.

MARRIED: LEsuiE STUART CARTER to Cor-
delia Wheeler Exton on Sept. 9, 1972 in
Southport, Conn. The couple will make

  
 

     
  
 

their home in. Pittsburgh, Pa., where the —

bridegroom is in the trust _ department of
the Union National Bank.

 

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CLARK Carrer, a son,
Read Allen Carter, on March 11, 1972. For-
_ merly on the staff at McDonough School,
‘Carter has. recently | become associated with

the Baltimore insurance agency of Mason

& Carter, Inc.

Davin R. HACKETT operates the Community
Legal Aid Society, Inc. in Sussex County,
Del. He counsels lower-income residents in
problems ranging from consumer protection
to tenant rights. —

220

 

ly working in the Office of the Gen-

HARTWELL to Katherine

Hartwell entered WEL |

After receiving an MBA from the Univer-
sity of Virginia, R. STEPHENS PANNILL has

joined the staff of the First National Bank

of Martinsville, Va.

W. Cart WALKER received a J. D. degree

from. the University of Virginia in June,

1972. He is now with the creative staff of

| Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborne, Inc.,

an advertising firm ine New, York City.

Harry M. (HANK) Wutson II, after receiv-
ing his Jaw degree from the University of
Florida, is practicing in Jacksonville with
the firm of Smith, oe Schwalbe, Spraker
one Nichols.

1970

IED: “Martin. B. Turpin to Pamela
Gay Firebaugh. on July, 22, 1972, in Rich-
mond, Va. Turpin has recently been ap-
pointed the Central Illinois | and Western

 

Indiana sales’ representative for the Lane —

Furniture Co. of Altavista, Va. The couple
lives in ‘Springfield, oor

MARRIED: MICHAEL C. G. NEER to, Cor-
nelia Lee Kittle on Sept. 23, 1972. Ensign
Neer is serving as a physical education | in-
structor and a basketball coach at the U. S.
Naval Academy at Annapolis. His bride is a
stewardess | for Pan American Airways.

“MARRIED: RICHARD Pp. “Lasko to Charlotte

Jane Perry on July” 8, 1972, in Malverne,
LI. Lasko practices: law in New York City.

MARRIED: HucH BUCKLER| GuILL to Vic-
toria Kathryn Simmons on Aug. 5, 1972 in
Stamford, Conn. Having completed a tour
of military duty in Vietnam, Guill entered
Wharton Graduate School of Business in
September.

GEORGE F. BATEH worked this summer in
the state attorney’ s office in Jacksonville,

Fla. He is in his third year at the Univer-

sity of Florida Law School.

LARRY MANN studied ironmongery in Eng-
land, Denmark, and Greece. He is back in
Lexington with the blacksmith, Manly
Brown, working primarily with wrought
iron, turning out articles which are artistic
and practical.

ae

 

Homer L. ‘(MICKEY ) Mixson is entering | his
second year at Harvard Law School. Dur-

ing his first year, Mixson won the Williston
competition and placed third in the Ames
competition.

 

 

five law students _ being accepted, ;

MARRIED: Wi1amM A. G Aine :

a daughter, Rebecca Kern, on i 1

family lives in Newark, Del.

  
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
    
    
   
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 

197]
MARRIED: SHELBY WAYNE WEDDLE
nie Jaye Blake on July 8, 1972,
Va. oe . , ee

MARRIED: youn G. STAFFORD > JR.
thia Lee Eustace on July 8, 1972
chapel at the Quantico Marine
Stafford is stationed at Camp Lejet
after completing the field artillery
course at Fort Sill, Okla.

me

ae De OM Tp ~~ => yo a

Jor ToMPKINs Jr, currently | atten
Harvard Law School, has been |
into a joint degree program betwe
vard Law School and the John F
School of Government. It is a_ fe
program and upon completion, Tc
will receive his J.D. degree and a '
Master of Public Policy. The f
highly selective with normally on

1979,

Anne Lynn Williams on- July +
Danville, Va. ied isa practicin,
MARRIED: Kennet Bruce}
Robin Lea Dickler on July | 30,

Roanoke. The couple will live i
Rouge, La “a.

MARRIED: A. Scort Nrrst to |
Felerski on July 8, 1972, in Iron
N. Y.

MARRIED: a T. ‘ous,
Anne Tucker on June 11, 1972. |
make their home in Baltimore. |
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN A.
The young lady joins an older |

law clerk for the Delaware Suprem

 

 
 

In n. Vl emoriam

 

 

MAURICE Moore, former vice pre

| Lynchburg National Bank and_

 
   
    
  
   

‘1895

Lynchburg Cotton Mill Co., died
1972, at the Medical Care Center i
burg. Moore was associated | oT

He was secretary, treasurer, and v
dent of the Lynchburg Cotton Mill |

 

 

Inc. in New York City,
in Palo Alto, Calif.

1921 |

 

a 1972, i

 

ted before the American
trical ah ane One of

 

 

 
  
   
   
    
 
  
    
 

TON of Shreveport, La., died
“Melton was  secretary-treas-

. Hodges Industries, Inc., and

 

ee

is “and Pawleye Island, _ C.,,
“1972 , after serious surgery.
ed as assis ant legal counsel

  

  

“died Taly, 25,
y of comune ood, N. Je had retired

 

    
 

Court / justice of New York, died Sept. ‘19,
(1972, in Bridgewaters, N. Y. Gov. Thomas
_E. Dewey appointed Ritchie in 1947 to i
a vacancy as county judge of Suffolk County.
His appointment as Supreme Court Justice
for the 10th Judicial District came in Au-

. gust, 1952.
1996

RADFORD KEIGHTLEY GIMSON, a chemist for
the Alpha Portland Cement Co., died July

former vice president of,

“972, Grimley

If you wish to receive

the = campus —_—

“the A. 7 J. and Nona Trigg”

 

 

Address

 

Zip Code

19, 1972, in Somers Point, N. J. Before re-
tiring in 1967, Gimson was with Alpha Ce-
ment for A years in LaSalle, Ill., and Eas-
ton, Pa.

1932
ROBERT M. AveENT, a former attorney with

the St. Joe Paper Co. in Jacksonville, Fla.,
died June 10, 1971. He was a Navy Lieu-

 

tenant Commander in World War II and

was also licensed by the Florida Real Estate
‘Commission. | .

a 1937

Jack BRADLEY PIERCE, formerly in the in-
vestment and security field and associated

with A. I. Shatswell & Co., bank examiners

and auditors of Boston, died Nov. 19, 1971.

ae 1941

LATHAM L. THIGPEN Jr. ‘general manager of
Westvaco Corp. in Baltimore and vice presi-
dent of the Maryland Kidney Foundation,
died Sept. 8, 1972. T higpen | joined the West
Virginia” Pulp” and Paper Co. in 1946 and
Was associated primarily with the Hinde and
Dauch division, one of the nation’s leading
producers of shipping containers and other
corrugated products. Thigpen | Was a native
of Richmond, Va.

RoBert NELSON VAN DER VoorT JR., |
Setauket, N. Y., in July, (1972. An_ active
conservationist and a member of the Con-

 

 

 

 

 

-servationists United for Long Island, he had

recently completed a plan to prevent the

loss of ground water by recharging sewage.

After service in Wor Id War II, Van der

Voort joined General Bronze Corp., where

he worked for more than 20 years.

1946

ALLISON NAILOR| MILLER JR., president of the
N. Miller Development Co.,
died “Aug. 28, 1972, in Potomac Falls, Md.
The firm is engaged in development of resi-
dential sites. Miller became president of the
mpany in 1951. He was a member of the—
board of directors of the Security Storage
Co. of Washington, the Potomac National
Bank, and the Washington Brick and Terra
Cotta Co. He was also a member of the
Washington Board of Realtors, the Wash-
ington Home Builders’ Association, and the
Metropolitan Washington Board of Trade.
He was a founder of the Potomac Polo Club.

| | 23

 

   

died in >

  
    
  
  
 
  
   
  
  
 

  

 

.

 

oe
-;

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

 

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $44.50 f.0.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND
LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please allow five to six
weeks for shipment
after your order is placed.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

ox

 

Ag

 

 

Use Order Form Below:

ROCKBRIDGE CHAPTER—W&L
P.O. Box 948
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me the items checked below. Make
checks payable to Rockbridge Chapter—WeL.

[ ] Large ice bucket, $45.00 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ ] Small ice bucket, $37.50 each plus $2 handling
and postage.

[ | Big tray, $15.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.
[ j Round tray, $9.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.

HORT e eee ee eene

Rey ON ORE Zip
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

Payne Of $00. is enclosed.

WASHINGTON
AND LEE

ICE BUCKETS
AND TRAYS

The Rockbridge Chapter of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, by authority of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is offering these
handsome ice buckets and trays for sale to raise
funds for the University.

Manufactured by the Bacova Guild, they are made
of durable fiber glass and bear the Washington
and Lee crest in full color. The ice buckets have
hand-rubbed mahogany tops. They are a welcome
addition to any home.

All profit from sale of these items goes to the
scholarship fund in memory of John Graham, ’14.
Income from the fund helps worthy students
attend Washington and Lee.

THE PRICES:

Large ice bucket (three gallons) $45.00 plus $2
handling and postage.

Small ice bucket (five quarts) $37.50 plus $2
handling and postage.

Big tray, (16x21) $15.00 plus $1 handling and.

postage.

Round tray (14 inches) $9 plus $1 handling and
postage.

Virginia residents add 4% sales tax. <

~ ee

 

 

~

+<

