 

 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 54, Number 3, April 1979

William C. Washburn, 40 ..................00. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 .................. Associate Editor
Jeffrey L. M. Hazel,’77 ............... Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter .................0..0., Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ........... eee eee eee eee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Atwood Behind the Pie ...................ccccceces esses 1
Dance Marathon ...............cccccceeec eee eeeeeeeeneeees 2
Questions About Three Mile Island ................... 4
Phi Beta Kappa Address .................c0cccceceeeeeees 6
WL Gazette 2.0... ccc cece eee e eee e ee eeneeennes 9
Civil War Relic Hunting ..................cccc cece ee ee ees 11
Lee Chapel in Photographs ...................000000ee es 14
Chapter NeWS ..........0ccccccececcee ee ee eee ee ene eneeeenes 16
Class Notes .......0ccccessccecvaepaversestaugietis dues fee 17
Chapter Presidents ...............cccccceceeceeeeeeeeeeees 19
In Memoriam ................c cece cece eee eeneeeeeenee es 23

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee Unwersity Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpwIn J. Fottz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
Vice President

RICHARD A. DENNY, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD Bain, ’49, Spartanburg, S. C.
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DuDLEY, 758, Richmond, Va.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, ’51, Nashville, Tenn.
JOHN H. McCormack Jr., ’50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM B. OcILviE, 64, Houston, Texas
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

ROBERT M. Wuirte II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

ef>

a

ON THE COVER: Sally Mann, University photo-
grapher, was there clicking away when the cream pie
was swooshed into the face of whoever was the target
for it. (A glance to the right will quickly tell you whose
face was on the receiving end.) The pie thrower paid
$85 for the privilege of pushing the pie into that face,
and, to be sure, the money went for a worthy cause.
To find out what it was all about, turn to page 2.

 

 

 

 

 

Why, It's Dean Edward C. Atwood Jr.
Of the School of Commerce, Economics and Politics,
And All for a Good Cause, Too.

(Turn the Page to See Why.)

 

 

Here’s pie in your eye, Dean Atwood.

DANCE MARATHON

W&L Dancers and Pie Throwers Raise $17,179 for Muscular Dystrophy Victims

Audrey Hepburn sang it in My Fair
Lady, and it should have been the theme
song for Washington and Lee’s first
muscular dystrophy dance marathon,
which took place on the University campus
March 23-25.

“T could have danced all night,” is
exactly what 60 determined dancers did in
an effort to raise at least $5,000 for “those
who couldn't dance for themselves”—those
stricken by a crippling villain, MD.

The 30 Washington and Lee gentlemen
and their lady partners began to “trip the
light fantastic” on the tiled floor of Evans

Dining Hall at 8 p.m. Friday. Although
the dancing was somewhat different from
that in Fred Astaire’s and Ginger Rogers’s
1937 movie, Shall We Dance?, the dancers
became what today’s “Queen of the
Discos’ —Grace Jones—would have called
“one night stars.” In the words of one of
her biggest disco hits, the dancers had to
“Do or Die.” And “do” they did. By 3 a.m.
Sunday the dancers had raised $17,179
towards muscular dystrophy research and
treatment—more than $12,000 over the
goal.

To raise this money, each dancer (or

couple) had obtained, earlier in the week,
individual pledges and community
business sponsorships. The sponsors
agreed to pay a set amount for each hour a
dancer stayed on the dance floor or a “flat”
fee for completing the 30-hour marathon.

The marathon, sponsored by the
Interfraternity Council, was received with
great enthusiasm and support from the
townspeople and the area business
community.

Lexington Mayor Charles F. Phillips Jr.,
who also is a W&L professor of economics,
declared the weekend “Muscular

 

 

 

Dystrophy Weekend” for the city, and a
number of area bands volunteered to play
for the dancers during the marathon,
giving the music a range from Tammy
Wynette (country-western) to Donna
Summer (disco).

The 16 social fraternities at Washington
and Lee sponsored a party Friday
afternoon in Red Square to inaugurate the
weekend program.

To help the dancers survive the 30-hour
ordeal, 15-minute rest breaks were given
each hour and between 4 a.m. and 6 a.m.
Saturday, a two-hour break was given to
allow the dancers to shower and freshen
up.

Jay J. Blumberg of Boonton, N. J.,
chairman of the marathon and a junior at
Washington and Lee, while dressed
throughout the 30 hours in a tuxedo,
reminded one again of the star of My Fair

Lady—this time during the races at
Ascot—encouraging, whole heartedly, the
dancers to move “thar bloomin’ arsses.”

Explaining his somewhat cheerleader-
like antics, Jay confided to a Richmond
Times-Dispatch reporter, “I just want to
give them a lift; they are the ones doing it
all.”

Also to help distract the dancer’s
attention from their fatigue and protesting
muscles (near the end of the marathon a
few dancers had their knees wrapped in
bandages) and to raise more money,
several W&L professors and a Lexington
policeman, well-known for his strict
attention to the law, volunteered to act as
a target for a cream pie.

Each pie—with a target to go along with

it—was auctioned to the highest bidder.
Dr. Edward C. Atwood, Dean of the
Commerce School, fetched the highest

 

price of any target—$85.

The most popular event with the
students, however, was a wet T-shirt
contest Saturday night.

Another highlight of the marathon was
the appearance of Dennis Potter of
Roanoke, the Muscular Dystrophy
Association's poster child for Southwest
Virginia. He inspired the dancers to carry
on ‘til the last dance.

By 3 a.m. Sunday the sore and weary
dancers had, no doubt, just one song
lingering in their heads, Cher’s “Take Me
Home.”

Pictures below show the marathon scene; in the
center, decked out in tuxedo, marathon
chairman Jay Blumberg struts his stuff; that
other man with pie on his face is Officer Purvis,
the nemesis of We>L miscreants.

 

 

 

by H. Thomas Williams Jr.

Assistant Professor of Physics

THREE MILE ISLAND AFTERMATH

W&L Physicist Speculates on the Questions Educated Laymen Should Consider

In the aftermath of the crisis this spring at the Three Mile
Island nuclear power generation plant near Harrisburg, Pa.,
many scientists have found themselves designated—often
unwillingly—as nuclear power experts, and have been barraged
with questions and even accusations about the incident. Since I
am a physicist by training and profession, I have found myself
occasionally treated thus. I am not, however, an expert in
nuclear power generation in general, nor in nuclear reactors or
nuclear safety in particular. In that respect I am unqualified to
add to the already numerous (and often conflicting) explanations
of what happened at Three Mile Island, or to the equally
numerous suggestions (equally in conflict) about what should be
done as a result.

As a voter, educator, and scientist, however, I will be bold
enough to speculate on some of the matters which need now to
be considered about nuclear energy, public safety, and public
policy.

A multitude of technical questions must be addressed by
technical people, of course—by the people who design, build,
and operate nuclear reactors in particular. What actually caused
the overheating of the reactor core and the subsequent radiation
leak? Could it have been prevented? How? Once it had
occurred, could it have been brought under control more
quickly? What is now to be done about the damaged reactor?
What reactor design changes are necessary to reduce the
probability of recurrence?

These are basically questions for science and for scientists—
but the scientific method notwithstanding, they will be
answered in different ways by different authorities. Public policy
decisions, based on the answers to those questions and others,
will generally be made by non-scientists, and therein lies a great
problem for the decision-makers and the rest of us.

The scientists who study the problems must act in an
advisory role to the decision-makers in the power-generation
industry and at various levels of government. Ultimately, the
major decisions will be made by the Congress. Typically, a

4

Congressman is a lawyer; most Congressmen have liberal arts
backgrounds. The sum of scientific training among members of
Congress is miniscule, and that portion of that miniscule
scientific training which is pertinent to examination of the Three
Mile Island questions is much smaller yet.

In order to make intelligent and appropriate policy
decisions, therefore, our lawmakers will have to decide among
paths suggested by nuclear experts who themselves are in
considerable conflict. Suggested responses already range from
“No one was injured or killed, and why should we worry” to
“We must shut down every nuclear power plant until we can be
guaranteed absolutely that no accident will ever occur again.”
Congressmen must be sensitive to the absurdity of both
extremes; they must progress to more subtle distinctions.

Among the considerations that have to be faced by legislators
are these: Not all scientists are honest and not all are
competent. How can one distinguish between good science and
bad? How does one decide among conflicting scientific
viewpoints? The simple fact that there can be more than one
valid scientific viewpoint on a single issue might come as a
surprise to laymen; it is nevertheless true. What are the
important criteria to be weighed when formulating policy which
will have consequences for literally hundreds of generations?

In presenting information about the Three Mile Island crisis
to the public, the news media sometimes represented the
confusion of the initial days accurately. In other instances,
however, the media aggravated or even created the confusion.
Throughout the weekend following the initial March 28
occurrence, such headlines were commonly printed as “Nuclear
Plant Potentially Explosive.” In point of narrow technical fact,
the headline was accurate. But to much of the lay public,
conditioned by nuclear holocaust fiction or by scenarios
postulated by those who are ideologically opposed to nuclear
power and weaponry policies, the two words “nuclear” and
“explosive” in juxtaposition conjured up visions of mushroom
clouds, widespread death, and general devastation.

 

 

 

Tom Williams received his B.S. and Ph.D. degrees in physics
from the University of Virginia and has taught at W&L since
1974. He is a specialist in electromagnetism and nuclear theory.
He has been a National Science Foundation post-doctoral fellow
and is the author of numerous research articles. He and
University Historian Taylor Sanders have developed an inter-
disciplinary program for laymen on 19th-century “natural
philosophy” in a 20th-century academic context.

The fact is that the Three Mile Island reactor was never in
danger of becoming a nuclear bomb. The feared explosion would
have been a chemical one. The radiation leakage accompanying
such a chemical explosion could indeed have been disastrous—
but there would not have occurred the release of awesome
energy and power of a true nuclear blast. The headline was
misleading—frighteningly so—even though technically accurate.
The Tidewater Virginia radio station that opened a newscast
with “Eastern Virginia nuclear accident—details to follow” was
guilty of similarly poor judgment. The news media must search
for answers to several questions about their own role in the way
the Three Mile Island incident was represented to the public. In
such matters, when the subject is poorly understood both by
reporters and by their readers and listeners, how can the rights
of the media to report and the public to know be satisfied? Who,
among those who understand the scientific complexities and
uncertainties of such a subject, are the media’s “usually reliable
sources ? Should the media subject themselves, at least
temporarily, to outside supervision over the release of
information when the subject and the manner of its reporting
can so easily produce public panic?

The public in a democracy must accept final responsibility
for policy decisions of its government. The American people

- must, as best they can, develop an understanding of the

problems so conspicuously posed by the Three Mile Island
accident—and develop an understanding of the multiplicity of
possible solutions. Beyond the dilemma of conflicting “expert”
opinion, the public is faced with the problem of receiving nearly
all its information about the controversy through only-partially-
understanding news media. Sorting it all out is far from easy.

We in the public must look for intelligent answers to the same
questions our legislators face. What are the limitations of
science? To what extent are the questions raised as a result of
Three Mile Island scientific, and to what extent are they ethical
and moral? How shall we choose to educate our youth to answer
even more demanding and troublesome questions in coming
decades?

Educators need to examine the existing system of teaching,
at all levels, from the point of view of the degree of
understanding and appreciation of science they provide the non-
scientific majority. We cannot hope to make nuclear experts of
everyone so as to be able to handle future Three Mile Islands
wisely—just as the general public cannot, for example, aspire to
learn enough about biochemistry to be able confidently to make
decisions in the field of genetic engineering.

But it is not too much to expect that we should produce
educated citizens, regardless of field of academic emphasis, who
have a comprehension of what science is, of how it is carried
out, of what constitutes scientific “fact,” of science’s limitations.
Taking a single science course in school does not provide this
insight; even a college degree in a science does not often lead to
this kind of appreciation of science as a whole.

Most members of twentieth-century American society who
are well educated have been taught an appreciation of the arts.
The analagous eighteenth-century appreciation of science—
“natural philosophy’—has all but disappeared, even as it has
changed from the status of intellectual luxury to near-
requirement for ultimate survival.

 

by Irwin T. Sanders, ’29

PHI BETA KAPPA ADDRESS

In Community Service, “Let Us Not Overlook Noblesse Oblige of the Mind”

Dr. Irwin T. Sanders, a 1929 graduate of Washington and
Lee and professor emeritus and former chairman of the
Department of Sociology and Anthropology at Boston
University, delivered the annual Phi Beta Kappa-Society of the
Cincinnati address at WL on March 22. He has also taught at
the University of Kentucky, the University of Wisconsin, and the
Harvard School of Public Health. He has served in the U.S.
Embassy in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, and as associate director of
the International Training and Research Program at the Ford
Foundation. He has been president of the Southern Sociological
Society and the Rural Sociological Society and has been on the
council of the American Sociological Association and the
International Sociological Association. For his research on
peasants in the Balkans, he was elected as a Foreign Member of
the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences and was decorated with the
Royal Order of the Phoenix by the Greek government.

Dr. Sanders is the uncle of Dr. I. Taylor Sanders I1, associate
professor of history and University historian at WerL, and the
brother of Stuart Sanders II of Richmond, a 1931 graduate of
the University.

Dr. Sanders began his address: “Any person who has had a
liberal arts education should make a contribution to his or her
local community. That is my message today.”

There is much to be said on this topic, but I will limit myself
to two of the more important points: namely, that of social
commitment and that of putting one’s mind to work in local
problem-solving.

Social commitment: In my community studies I have
interviewed scores of community leaders, people who were
involved in making key decisions affecting various aspects of
community life. Some, obviously, are acting completely out of a
narrow self-interest, but a surprisingly large number have a
strong sense of social commitment to their community. It is just
such a commitment that the liberal arts should reinforce. For
one thing, the study of history and literature clearly
demonstrates that a single individual can make a difference in
his surroundings; one’s effectiveness is of course multiplied as
one knows how to work through the existing social structures
related to the program or cause one seeks to serve.

When I was at Washington and Lee 50 years ago, there still
existed in American communities a sense of noblesse oblige on
the part of the most secure, public-spirited families. Those with
inherited wealth endowed museums, financed orchestras, and
served on many boards of organizations dealing with health and
welfare problems. They recognized themselves as part of the
most favored stratum of society and therefore felt a
responsibility for those less fortunate. They also saw themselves
as champions of the arts in behalf of the general public.

Most liberal arts students at that time either came from, or
were soon to enter, the privileged upper middle or upper
classes—at least as measured in terms of their social position in

6

 

 

He developed this theme by describing some of his experiences
and observations as a community sociologist over almost five
decades, a period during which he conducted dozens of
community studies, including major studies of peasant life in
Bulgaria, village life in Greece, and village life at various
degrees of depth in other East European countries, Africa, the
Middle East, and South Asia; absorbing studies of rural, non-
urbanized communities in the United States, and in-depth looks
at urban cominunities ranging from Levittown, Long Island, to
Portland, Maine, from Westerly, Rhode Island, to Lowell,
Massachusetts. He also discussed community action, explaining
that many community sociologists are not content with merely
conducting research, teaching, and writing. “We want to test
our ideas and competence in the field of social action,” which,
he said, has at least three dimensions: developing new research
methods, consultation, and training. The features of a
community sociologist at work, he said, “move from the
relatively quiet academic study where one can think through
theoretical problems about community life to the market place,
so to speak, where one encounters daily problems and engages
in social action.” It was against this background that he
returned to the original question: “What is the connection
between a liberal arts education and community participation?”
He continued:

the communities from which they came. With the increased role
of government in every phase of human activity and with the
stress on equality and human rights, the noblesse oblige of 50
years ago is only a memory—and perhaps it should be.
Fortunately, for institutions like Washington and Lee, there are
still generous individuals among us, but theirs is not the older
type of community noblesse oblige.

There is a need today for another kind of noblesse oblige—not
one based on inherited wealth, but rather one founded on
mental ability, the kind that Phi Beta Kappa seeks to represent.
This is not an elitism which seeks to maintain the privileges for
the few, but rather a sense of social dedication. Since one
possesses certain abilities in greater measure, one’s duty to the
community is therefore all the greater. The parable of the
talents in the New Testament is as true today as it was two
thousand years ago. It was Robert E. Lee himself who said:

Duty is the sublimest word in our language. Do your duty in
all things. You cannot do more. You should never wish to do less.

We may not go quite so far as the General, but if the quality of
American community life (and therefore life in America) is to
improve, the best minds in the community must set themselves
the task of figuring out the best ways of dealing with local
problems. The liberal arts education that is true to its heritage
makes one familiar with and a recognized part of the human
condition. Out of this can grow a social commitment which can
often find expression in community service. Let us not overlook
the noblesse oblige of the mind.

 

a

 

Dr. Irwin T. Sanders, eminent sociologist

Asking the critical questions: A second connection between
the liberal arts and the kind of service I have in mind is the
ability to ask the critical questions in the community context.
Three questions can illustrate what this involves.

What is Justice? Socrates drove Athens crazy by posing the
question of what is a just man. We do not have to be a Socrates
nor seek his fate with the poison hemlock to be able to inject
into the discussions of community issues considerations which
are often ignored. If we really subscribe to the Phi Beta Kappa
motto—Philosophy the Guide of Life—then our liberal arts
education should have helped us develop a personal philosophy
that moves us beyond the short-run interests of the present to
the implications of human action for the future. Too many
community leaders are asking: What is expedient? What will
bring in increased federal revenues? How can we reduce local
taxes even though this short-changes people who deserve some
help along life’s difficult path?

Along with the social commitment, therefore, should go the
willingness to ask the tough questions even though one knows
that there are no ready-made answers. But as people deliberate
on these questions, philosophical in substance, they are more
likely to arrive at a fair, beneficial, satisfying course of action
than might otherwise have resulted.

What is beauty? The liberal arts student knows that aesthetics
are a part of the human landscape just as much as pragmatics.
Think what a difference J. Irwin Miller and those associated

 

 

 

with him in the Cummins Engine Company have made because
they insisted that every major building in Columbus, Indiana,
be designed by some nationally-known architect. The town has
an ethos of its own. Beauty is respectable. In so many other
communities aesthetic considerations are not taken into account
by those making economic or political decisions. Indeed, in
today’s world pollution has become the antithesis of beauty. The
destruction of streams for fishing and bathing, the fumes that
produce smog that shuts out the beauty of the nearby
mountains, unplanned communities where all land uses are
mixed in a jumble of billboards, deteriorating dwellings, and fast
food places—these should grate on the nerves of those who
think that man is destined for better things.

I still remember with pleasure the activity of the garden club
in one community we studied. The women were unsuccessful in
their battle to have a junkyard relocated to a site distant from
the leading entrance to their community. But they were not
licked. They planted rose bushes so that during much of the
year the flowers hid from view the eyesore which was
destroying the image of the community they were trying to
create.

This episode is a reminder that women in the past have been
the major volunteers in community programs; that without their
insistence many things would never get accomplished. Now that
more women are working outside -the home, the pool of such
volunteers is drying up. This is all the more reason why men
should seriously consider community service as an extra-
curricular activity.

What promotes a sense of community? Much is being written
today about the alienation of individuals and groups in our
society. Marxists see this as an invariable characteristic of
capitalist societies; non-Marxists stress the rootlessness that
derives from the high mobility of our population plus the
rapidity with which social change overtakes us. It comes so fast
that the experience of one generation is very unlike that of the
generation 25 years earlier; and it will be different from the
experiences 25 years later.

Have we in America lost our sense of community? Do we as
individuals feel isolated from our fellows; do we categorize our
society in terms of antagonistic groups out to get our group;
have we given up faith that citizens as individuals and in groups
can do something about the drift in our society?

Perhaps our greatest failing is that of waiting for some leader
in Washington to ignite the spark of sacrifice and service, to
bring people across our nation together into one people.
However, anyone who has studied the history of democracies
knows that such a figure only arises on very rare occasions; at
times, the people pay the price of surrendering freedoms that
they seldom ever get back. The solution is not that of waiting for
a white knight on horseback; it is rather that of beginning in our
own local communities to bring people together, to give
everybody a greater sense of participation. This happens only if
people feel that their participation really makes a difference.

7

PHI BETA KAPPA ADDRESS

 

Although there is much conflict in every community—and that
is where it can best be handled—there can also be healing in a
community.

A liberal arts education should equip us to deal with the
commonalities among man, while still recognizing inevitable
differences. What Walter Lippman once called the “toleration of
diversity’ can be the basis for stability and reduced alienation.

These are tough questions. What is justice? What is beauty?
What promotes a sense of community? Liberal arts graduates,
more than anyone in our society, should be able to pose them
properly and in the right context. Systematic exposure to
philosophy, history, the heritage of the arts, the analytical skills
supplied by the natural and social sciences should stand one in
good stead as a community leader. Furthermore, the liberal arts
person should know enough about human nature to realize that
there are never solutions to human problems; rather there are
only more effective and less effective ways of dealing with the
problems. We need to put our minds to work to be sure that the
most effective choices are made.

My own liberal arts education at Washington and Lee
prepared me in a way I never thought possible to understand

8

Dr. Sanders (center) with nephew, Dr. I. Taylor Sanders Il, WGL historian, and brother, Stuart Sanders II, ’31.

 

the peasants in a Bulgarian village perched on a Balkan
mountainside. This is because I saw in the peasants the same
universals I had read about in Thomas Hardy, Shakespeare, and
Plato's Republic. Liberal arts training helped me understand the
complexities of the American community primarily because in
psychology and literature courses I had learned much about the
complexity of human nature. I realized, therefore, the folly of
looking for simplistic answers to difficult problems. The
historical perspective prepared me to deal with the unexpected
twists of community change and in some small way to be able to
help direct the change toward what most people considered the
public good. Later study of sociology and anthropology provided
me the concepts and theory which helped me make sense out of
what otherwise would have been a confusing panorama.

I trust that in your own case you will find in your own local
community or some major organization serving as its
counterpart a place where you can demonstrate your social
commitment and put your mind to work in grappling with
never-ending problems. I know that you will ask the pertinent
questions and help work out programs that benefit not just some
elite few but the general good of the community.

 

W, CAZETTE

Ce

 

 

$80,000 deferred gift
will result in MacCorkle Fund

Dr. Stuart A. MacCorkle of Austin,
Texas, a 1924 Washington and Lee
graduate who taught government at the
University of Texas for 37 years, has made
an $80,000 gift to W&L eventually to
establish a teaching and research
endowment in the Washington and Lee
politics department.

Dr. MacCorkle made his gift through
the University’s Pooled Income Fund,
which permits a donor to make a
substantial capital contribution to
Washington and Lee but to continue
receiving income from the capital sum
throughout his own lifetime and the
lifetime of a beneficiary if he wishes. The
donor receives an immediate income-tax
deduction for a proportion of the gift’s
value.

The $80,000 gift from Dr. MaeCorkle
will become the Stuart Alexander |
MacCorkle and Lucille Emerson f
MacCorkle Endowment Fund, with the
income used for teaching, training, study
and research activities in political science
at W&L. Dr. MacCorkle’s design is to
initiate a program to support lectureships,
seminars, publications and library
acquisitions.

Dr. MacCorkle began his teaching
career at Texas in 1930. He was also
director of the Texas Institute of Public
Affairs from 1952 until 1967. He is the
author of numerous books on municipal

government, the government of Texas, and

America’s policy of recognition of Mexico,
which was also the topic of his Ph.D.

dissertation at Johns Hopkins. He received

an honorary LL.D. degree from
Washington and Lee in 1964.

He is an honorary life member of the
International City Managers’ Association
and was mayor pro tem of Austin in 1951-
53 and again in 1969-70. His numerous
public- and government-service positions
have also included the executive
directorship of the Texas Economy
Commission and a principal advisory role
in public administration at Seoul (Korea)
National University in 1958-60.

He has taught as a visiting professor or

guest lecturer at Southwestern University
in Memphis, Tenn., and at the
Universities of Mexico and Maryland. In
1964 he was a Fulbright-Hayes lecturer at
the College of Europe in Belgium. Dr.
MacCorkle now devotes his full time to
consultation, travel and writing.

0S a
$25,000 gift to C-School
honors 1893 W&L graduate

The Harris and Eliza Kempner Fund of
Galveston, Texas, has made a $25,000
grant to Washington and Lee in memory of
the late Issac H. Kempner Sr., an 1893
W&L graduate. The gift will be used
toward the $3.5-million cost of renovating
McCormick Library to become the new
home of the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics, and a unit in the
building will be named in recognition of
the foundation’s gift and Mr. Kempner’s
career.

Issac Kempner was the eldest son of
Harris and Eliza Kempner, for whom the
fund is named. He was chairman of
Galveston’s U.S. National Bank and was
mayor of the city during World War II.
Known as © Mister Galveston,” he was
honored by the Washington and Lee

Mrs. Whitney Young with W&L Artist-in-Residence I-Hsiung Ju

Two Generous Gifts Boost W&L’s Commerce School Development

Alumni Association in 1961 at a banquet in
his honor. He died in 1967 at the age of
94.

SSIS es
Mrs. Whitney Young speaks

on education, visit to China

Mrs. Margaret Young—civic worker,
author, businesswoman and foundation
executive—visited Washington and Lee
this spring and delivered a major address
to students, faculty and townspeople on
her views of education and her
impressions of American society in
contrast with mainland China’s.

Mrs. Young is the widow of Whitney M.
Young Jr., executive director of the
National Urban League until his death in
1971. Mrs. Young is chairman of the
memorial foundation named in her
husband's honor, which awards fellowships
to individuals who demonstrate interest
and talent in the fields of Whitney Young’s
special concerns.

She is also a member of the board of
directors of Philip Morris Inc., together
with W&L President Huntley, who is a
member of the Whitney Young Founda-
tion fellowship selection committee.

Mrs. Young's visit to W&L was

 

 

VS
&

GAZETTE

sponsored by the University Lectures
Committee in cooperation with the
Student Association for Black Unity. She
met informally throughout the day of her
visit with W&L students and with teachers
and University officials, and after her talk
in Lee Chapel she was the guest of honor
at a reception in the Alumni House.

Mrs. Young is widely active in public
service organizations as a trustee of New
York City’s Lincoln Center, the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the U.S.
Military Academy at West Point. She has
been extremely active as a United States
representative on a number of United
Nations commissions.

The children’s books she has written
include “picture life” biographies of Martin
Luther King Jr., Ralph Bunche and
Thurgood Marshall and two black history
texts, First Book of American Negroes and
Black American Leaders.

Her visit to W&L came almost
immediately after she returned from the
People’s Republic of China, and she
reported to her W&L audience that she
found that country’s regard for education
and individuality to contrast badly with the
attitudes she sees in the United States.

Her China experience, she said, moved
her to a more acute appreciation of the
worth of education as it is available to
Americans. “I have been concerned,’ she
said, “that some of us take our responsibility
for learning too lightly. Some of us take our
opportunity to learn for granted.

“The hope for our nation is in a well-
educated, enlightened citizenry. The
benefits accrue to us not just individually
in our ability to raise and maintain our own
standard of living, but collectively as well.
Even among my own people, the hard-
fought battles of the DuBoises, the Dr.
Kings, the Whitney Youngs for equal
opportunity are not fully appreciated.

“Any mind is a terrible thing to waste.”

 

Expansion of Evans Hall
kitchen facilities underway

The University began an 1,800-square-
foot addition to the kitchen of Evans Hall,
its dining facility, this spring to meet a
nearly doubled demand on W&L's food
services operation since Evans was opened
20 years ago.

The $795,000 project, which is not a
part of the ongoing Development

10

Program, is scheduled for completion by
the time undergraduate classes begin in
September. The cost figure includes
$150,000 in kitchen equipment.

The facade of the new wing, located
between the existing dining hall and the
law dormitories to the west on Washington
Street across from the Lee House, will
blend in with the other brick buildings on
that side of the street.

The expansion will effectively double
the size of the University's food-service
kitchen facilities. Evans was designed 20
years ago to serve an average of 350
students per meal, but today it serves
between 600 and 650, and the dining hall
is also called on to supply meal service for
a wide range of University events—such as
alumni reunions—and has become popular
with townspeople and community and
civic groups as well. As a consequence,

refrigeration, storage, and baking and
cooking space became impossibly
overcrowded and inadequate.

ee

 

Visitors to Lewis Hall
The School of Law had an abundance of

eminent jurists as visiting lecturers this
spring:

— U:S. District Court Judge Charles
W. Joiner of Detroit, former dean of the
law school at Wayne State University, who
spoke on the topic “Appellate Advocacy
from the Judge’s Viewpoint’ ;

— Herbert Brownell, former United
States Attorney General in the first
Eisenhower administration and campaign
manager for Thomas Dewey in 1948, on
the topic “The Role of the Attorney
General’;

 

In early March [1973] my old friend
Clark Mollenhoff, of the Des Moines
Register and Tribune, sent me a copy
of a column he had written. He had
been following the trial on the West
Coast of William Wooldridge, an army
sergeant major accused of skimming
large sums of money from service clubs
in Vietnam. Mollenhoff pointed out
that after Wooldridge pleaded guilty,
the presiding federal judge in that case
.. . had delayed sentencing and had
asked for a presentencing report on
the cooperation the sergeant major had
given to a Senate subcommittee in-

delaying sentencing [of the convicted
Watergate defendants] further and
making the sentences conditional on
some show of cooperation appealed to
me.

... Nixon himself had issued an-
other long explanation of the Water-
gate case in mid-August [1973], but it
added nothing to previous denials of
any personal participation in the
scandal. [Later], the President held
his first press conference since the case
had blown up in March. In an angry
and bitter confrontation with the re-
porters, the President accused Con-

 

Sirica, Nixon and Mollenhoff

vestigating the scandal. The idea of |

gress and the press of exploiting
Watergate as a way to embarrass him
politically and frustrate the workings
of his administration. My friend Clark
Mollenhoff, who had worked briefly
in the Nixon administration, asked the
question that most interested me:
“Where is the check on authoritarian-
ism by the executive if the President
is to be the sole judge of what the
executive branch makes available and
suppresses? And would you obey a
Supreme Court order if you are asked
and directed to produce the tapes?”
Nixon, barely controlling his rage,
answered that the only check was
public opinion—backed, he implied,
by the possibility of eventual im-
peachment action by Cngress. . . . It
appeared to me at the time that I not
only had to decide the legal issues,
but would also be faced later with a
real test of the court’s power to enforce

its decision.
—John M. Sirica, in his new book
To Set The Record Straight.

[Clark R. Mollenhoff, Pulitzer Prize-
winning investigative reporter, is professor
of journalism at W&L. He was presidential
ombudsman for a year in 1969-70, his book,
Game Plan for Disaster, recounts his ob-
servations as an insider in the early days of
the Nixon administration. |

 

 

— Criminal Court Judge Joseph Jordan
of Norfolk, widely known for his disdain of
lawyers who engage in trial-delaying legal
maneuvering, as the principal speaker in a
law students’ career symposium sponsored
by the W&L Black American Law
Students Association;

— John F. Shea, assistant attorney
general of New York state and an authority
on nuclear and environmental law, on the
‘problems of controlling nuclear energy-
generation and the transportation and
disposal of nuclear wastes.

C. W. Barritt named to head
romance languages department

Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, who has
taught Spanish at W&L for 27 years, is the
new head of the University s romance
languages department. He succeeds Dr.
G. Francis Drake, who will return to full-
time teaching. Dr. Drake has reached 65,
the age of mandatory retirement from
administrative duties at Washington and
Lee. 43

Dr. Barritt will serve a five-year term as
head of the department which =<
encompasses French, Spanish and Italian
languages and literature.

 

Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt with student

The new department head is a 1943
W&L graduate. He received his graduate
degrees from the University of Virginia. In
addition to general Spanish language and
literature courses, he also teaches
medieval and Renaissance poetry, fiction
and drama.

Dr. Drake has taught at Washington and
Lee since 1940. He received his
undergraduate education at Oberlin
College and his Ph.D. from North

Carolina. He teaches French language,
literature and composition and advanced
courses in phonetics, medieval and
Enlightenment literature, and French
drama.

Two other department heads—Dr.
Albert C. Gordon of fine arts and R. H.

MacDonald of journalism—were also

named this spring to serve additional five-
year terms as department heads. Each
initially became head in 1974.

All three appointments were announced
by Dr. William J. Watt, Dean of The
College, following approval by the Board
of Trustees at its March meeting in
Houston.

Next year’s chiefs
of publications named

John R. Cole Jr. of Lexington, Ky., and
Randolph P. Smith of Washington, D.C.,
both rising seniors, have been named
editors-in-chief of the Calyx and Ring-tum
Phi for 1979-80.

Christopher J. Fay, a rising junior from
Westboro, Mass., will be editor of the
W&L student literary magazine, Ariel.

Devin F. McGowan, a rising senior
from Cheverly, Md., was elected business

Sap I HE TR aE TO EE AOE UC a oe

by Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, °77

The Joys

of Civil War
Relic
Hunting

Bearer of the bitterer memories of a war
that occurred more than a century ago, the
South often looks backward with fondness
to an era that has —as Margaret Mitchell
so eloquently stated in the title of her
novel about the South, the Civil War, and
a woman of particular spirit—Gone With
the Wind.

Students at Washington and Lee, a
college linked with the South (Robert E.
Lee was president of then Washington
College from 1865 to 1970), cannot help
becoming wrapped in the trapping of
nostalgia and the gloss of romance which
surround that time.

Decaying plantation buildings, which
spot much of the hilly countryside in the
counties near the University, their empty
verandas slowly falling apart under
porticoes upheld by insecure wooden
pillars—shrines to many—ironically give
strength to the vitality of that time as they
drift off into ruin.

It should come as no surprise, therefore,
that a graduate of Washington and Lee has
written a book concerning the Civil War
(or for those who are ardent Southerners,
the War Between the States).

What is of interest is the topic—Civil
War relics.

The Illustrated History of American
Civil War Relics, by Michael J. O'Donnell
(a 1972 graduate of W&L) and Stephen W.
Sylvia, is an informative, comprehensive
history, with captivating photographs and
personal anecdotes, of relic hunting during
and after the Civil War—a true delight.

In addition to being a catalogue of Civil
War memorabilia—one that has become a
source of reference to collectors who have
artifacts in need of a history—the book also
is a scholarly attempt by the two authors to
raise the respectability of all relic hunters,
as well as their own, and to impart further
evidence of the validity of the relic as a
historical document, according to

BSG SR SY LPT 0

11

Le cance

oo a

Reserpe ¢ i
oP OS ta
Reise: _

President Robert E. R. Huntley presents the George C. Marshall Award to senior cadet F reeman E.

UR Buh Eo Weorrany ; e :

ters H

oe
&

es
w

Ata

 

Jones at the President’s Day Award Ceremony in honor of Washington and Lee’s Reserve Officer
Training Corps on April 5. Huntley addressed more than 170 cadets and assisted in the presentation

of awards to 26 distinguished cadets.

manager of the R-t Phi.
The elections were announced in April
by the student body’s Publications Board.
Cole, Calyx editor, is a journalism major
who is a graphics artist for several campus
publications. Smith is news editor of the
R-t Phi this year and is spending the

spring term under a journalism
department internship with Jack Anderson
in Washington.

Fay is a staff member of both Ariel and
the Ring-tum Phi this year. McGowan, a
chemistry major, is a business staff
member of the newspaper this year.

PE

Out goes gasoline,
in comes togetherness

Virginians might get along a little better
together, might be better neighbors and
better family types if future gasoline
shortages cut down severely on the use of
their cars.

The layman might well think otherwise,
but a Washington and Lee University
sociologist and psychologist, asked about it
by the Roanoke Times & World News, said
Virginians and other Americans would
adapt and live with the situation.

They both cautioned that they were only
speculating and that there are many
qualifications attached to such behavior
forecasting.

There might be some panic at first if the
current oil crunch in this country forces
the government to restrict or ration
gasoline sales, [assistant] sociology
professor David Novack said, but “later,
people are much more likely to think of
innovative ways to deal with the situation.
That’s the history of mankind.”

“T find it very difficult to be pessimistic, ”
said Nancy Margand, psychology
[assistant] professor. There might be anger
and panic at first, she said, but people
would get over it... .

SEE aN TT STE PSOE COE SD Oa

O'Donnell.

O’Donnell, 28, who was graduated from
Washington and Lee with a degree in
history, has been a relic hunter since a
youngster. He remembers making
scrapbooks of Civil War magazine articles
and says he often walked and searched the
hills surrounding Lexington and nearby
counties while a student at W&L.

Sylvia, who is 30, is a graduate of the
University of Maryland with a degree in
journalism. He is one of the founders and
a former editor of North South Trader, a
magazine for Civil War relic hunters.

Kindred spirits, the two men met seven
years ago while relic hunting on the
Chancellorsville battlefield. They made
many joint trips to battlefields and
campsites before conceiving the idea for a
book on relic hunting.

Once the decision was made, they spent
two and one half years, travelled some
50,000 miles, and gathered more than

10,000 photographs (of which 800 appear
in the book) to put their dream on this side
of the rainbow.

During the project, they also formed
Moss Publications, an Orange County-
based publishing company (operating out
of a Southern mansion, “somewhat on the
decline of its former glory,” according to
the two authors), through which they
published their book—doing all of their
own layout and paste-up—and through
which they are currently publishing a
supplement to Confederate Swords,
written by William Albaugh II of
Tappahannock.

The two authors, who have become
authorities on Civil War relics because of
the research they have done for the book,
stumbled upon two other Washington and
Lee graduates with an interest in Civil
War relics during their travels to
museums, ‘and battlefields, and visits with
other Civil War relic collectors.

 

Michael J. O’Donnell and Stephen W. Sylvia

Russ A. Pritchard (a 1962 graduate) is
currently curator of the Loyal Legion
Museum in Philadelphia, Pa.

NRA EE AEST A SEH ST Te WB SDD TST eg

12

 

 

Dr. Nancy A. Margand

If gasoline becomes severely short
again, Novack said, people in the central
cities will depend more on walking and the
bus to seek entertainment and other
services. And, he said, “If they are going
to renew downtown Roanoke [as currently
planned], this would be the best, thing that
could happen.”

It would be different in the distant
suburbs without public transportation, he
said, but suburbanites “may compensate

Dr. David R. Novack

 

 

very practically by having car pools.”

The family, he said, might “become

more critical as a recreational unit,”
although he conceded that might not be
easy at first.

It was nice to play Monopoly as a family,

he said, but “of course, we used to end up
fighting all the time, too.”

He said he suspects the videotape film

cassettes for television would make

millionaires of the men who make them.

Teenagers who didn't have gasoline for
cruising might be horrified at first, he said,
but they might change their hang-out style
from driving down Williamson Road to
hanging out, in the old-fashioned way, on a
street corner.

It might be a street corner downtown,
he said, “or hanging out might not mean a
street corner. It might be someone's front
porch’ in the suburbs.

“T think that after a period of time,
everybody would calm down.”

Professor Margand said she believes the
response to a severe shortage “would be
more passive than aggressive.”

She said she doesn't believe that
families spending more time together
would cause endless spats and ego
bruising.

—From an article, “Gas Shortage Could Bring
People Together, 2 Experts Say,” by Ben
Beagle, senior reporter for the Roanoke Times &
World News and one of Virginia's most widely
respected feature writers and news analysts. The
article is excerpted with permission.

Nancy Margand, whose fields of specialty
include analysis of human behavior, has taught

_ psychology at W&L since 1975, the year she

received her Ph.D. from Virginia. David R.
Novack, a scholar in the field of contemporary
social problems and urban sociology whose
recent research has focused on people’s “sense of
community,” received his Ph.D. from New York
University and has taught at W&L since 1976.

RE ID IT SSO STE

According to O'Donnell, Pritchard has
the largest collection of Civil War
documents in the world and was the
founder of the first American relic club,
the Northern Virginia Relic Hunters
Association.

Pritchard is a recognized leader in the
field of relic hunting, he said.

The two men also happened upon
Beverly M. Dubose III, a 1962 graduate,
who resides in Altanta and is the owner of
one of the largest private collections of
Civil War memorabilia.

The two W&L alumni contributed their
knowledge of Civil War collections, their
familiarity with many other collectors, as
well as their own collections, said
O'Donnell.

The book, of special interest to relic
hunters, is also of interest to anyone who
enjoys learning history through the stories
of people who were there or who recall
stories told to them by relatives who had

experienced a war “that many Northerners
and Southerners feared would be over
before they had a chance to see battle,”
according to O'Donnell and Sylvia.

Many of the excerpts in the book were
gleaned also from numerous diaries and
histories—providing a fresh insight into
those times and into relic hunting.

For instance, from the book: James
Beckham, an ex-Confederate soldier,
wrote from Petersburg in 1896: “Now and
then I found a dread messenger of death
which the rains had unearthed and which I
picked up and brought home as
mementoes of ‘lang syne’.”

Or, “A wounded Union cavalryman lay
alongside the road pleading for water.
Young Phenie Tapp—who witnessed the
Battle of the Wilderness as a child and was
interviewed by many relic collectors,
historians and writers—thought he had
‘two mouths , for the water exited through
a hole in his throat as quickly as he drank

ib

And, from a farmer near Chickamauga,
who after finding several unexploded
bombshells in 1863 reported: “Mother
pried the top out of one with a table knife.
That was pretty risky... .”

The book has been reviewed in many
publications that deal with Civil War
subjects and a number of newspapers.

A recent review in Man at Arms, read,
“a tome that is informative, innovative and
fun to read . . . methodically covers the
entire spectrum of relic collecting, past
and present, with a thoroughness that is
awe inspiring . . . a welcome addition to
any Civil War library.”

With more than 1,000 copies of the book
already sold since its publication four
months ago, the two authors are confident
the other 4,000 copies they have printed
will sell.

And then, the two plan to write a book
on Civil War uniforms.

CT a

13

    

Le
e
Chapel

mn
Ph
otogra
phs

<
SS
ASK

_
SS

 

 

 

SS

SK
<

S SS
—
SS
:

Photographs by Nancy Spencer

—

S&S
SS
S
S

-

<<
_
SS

CHAPTER NEWS

HOUSTON. Alumni gathered on March
16 as guests of the University Board of
Trustees for a cocktail party and dinner at
the Houston Country Club. (The
University Trustees were conducting their
annual winter meeting that weekend in
Houston.) Thomas B. Anderson, °34L,
accompanied by Mrs. Anderson, and F.
Fox Benton Jr., 60, the two members of
the University Board of Trustees from
Houston, presided over the dinner
meeting. Also in attendance were Waller
T. (Beau) Dudley, '79L, this year’s student
government president at W&L, and
Trustees Emeriti John M. Stemmons, '31,
from Houston, and John Minor Wisdom,
25, from New Orleans.

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT. A
large number of alumni and their wives,
along with several parents of current
students, gathered on March 22 at the
Poinsett Club in Greenville. Special guests
of the chapter were Roy L. Steinheimer
Jr., dean of the Washington and Lee law
school, and Mrs. Steinheimer. Dean
Steinheimer welcomed several young men
in attendance who have been offered
admission to Washington and Lee, and
gave a report on some of the recent
changes that have occurred at the
University. Also in attendance were James
F. Gallivan, ‘51, a former resident of
Greenville and a member of the Alumni
Board of Directors, John C. Hollister, ‘58,
a University staff associate, and William C.
Washburn, 40, alumni secretary, and Mrs.
Washburn. I. Langston Donkle III, ‘74,
presided over the meeting.

ATLANTA. Area alumni gathered on
March 23 for a cocktail party at the home
of Mr. and Mrs. Nathan V. (Pete)
Hendricks III. (Hendricks is a 66, ’69L
alumnus.) Guests at the party included
Thomas B. Branch, ’58, ’60L, and T. Hal
Clarke, ’38L, both University Trustees;
Richard Denny, 52, a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors; Roy L.
Steinheimer Jr., dean of the W&L law
school, and Mrs. Steinheimer; and William
C. Washburn, 40, alumni secretary, and
Mrs. Washburn. After the cocktail party a
number of alumni gathered for dinner at
the Piedmont Driving Club.

16

 

PALM BEACH-FORT LAUDER-
DALE—At dinner in connection
with the exhibit of the University’s
collection of Reeves Chinese export
porcelain and the paintings of
Louise Herreshoff at the Henry
Morrison Flagler Museum in Palm
Beach on Jan. 12 are (seated) Mrs.
Jean Flagler Matthews, grand-
daughter of the man for whom the
museum was named, and President
Huntley, and (standing) former
astronaut E. O. Mitchell, Mrs.
Mitchell, and Beverley H. Smith,
°32, who helped arrange the event.

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA. The
chapter gathered on March 24 to support
the Generals in its lacrosse game against
the University of North Carolina Tarheels.
After the game, a meeting took place at a
local pizza parlor. Tad Vaden, 69, chapter
president, reported on a student
recruitment plan for the area. Also, new
officers for the next year were elected—
Mike Miles, 68, president, Walter
Lockhart, ‘69, vice president and Greg
Crampton, ‘69, treasurer. Special guests of
the chapter included Tad Renner, '83, who
will enroll in September, and his father;
Joan Emmer, wife of John S. Emmer,
assistant athletic director at W&L and

SOUTH CAROLINA PIEDMONT—
Law Dean Roy L. Steinheimer;
John Hollister, ’58; Alfred B.
Robinson, ’77; Lang Donkle III, ’74
(back to camera)

 

lacrosse coach, and Julia Kozak, assistant
to Washington and Lee’s admissions
director and wife of Sam Kozak, W&L
professor of geology.

TIDEWATER. The chapter’s annual
oyster roast took place on March 24 at
Bayville Farms. A blue-grass band was
there to entertain the picnickers. Special
guests of the chapter were John
Duckworth, ’71, University staff associate,
and Mrs. Duckworth, and Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, professor of religion at W&L, and
Mrs. Hodges. Richard Burroughs, ’68,
chapter president, announced plans for an
upcoming reception to honor next year's
freshmen from the area.

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fo THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$70.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$85.00’f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your
name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

1912

CoL. PAUL A. ROCKWELL of Asheville, N.C.,
reached his 90th birthday in February and was
honored with a reception by the Western North
Carolina Historical Association of which he is
president emeritus. The ceremony took place in
the town hall of Biltmore Forest. Rockwell had
served with the French Foreign Legion and the
Lafayette Escadrille.

1928

HowarpD K. TAYLOE JR., former owner and
operator of the Tayloe Paper Co. in Memphis, sold
the business in 1976 and is now associated with
Northwestern Bottle Co., a St. Louis based
company. Northwestern Bottle primarily is a
distributor for Owens-Illinois, Brockway Glass,
and Monsanto companies, among others. Tayloe is
assistant manager and buyer for a restaurant

supply division which the company has in

Memphis.

1930

L. PALMER BROWN, chairman of the National
Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Society board of trustees,
was the guest speaker of the Blue Ridge MS
Chapter at its 12th annual meeting and awards
banquet on March 9 in Charlottesville, Va. Brown
is president of L. P. Brown Co. Inc. and a director
of Wade Fund Inc. in Memphis. He has been a
leader in the United Way, American Cancer
Society, Boy’s Clubs, Downtown Association of
Memphis, Memphis Public Library, Red Cross,
Lebonheur Children’s Hospital, and_ the
LesPassees Rehabilitation Center. In 1960 he was
honored as “Memphis’s Outstanding Citizen.” He
also received the “Master of Free Enterprise”
award from the Junior Achievement of Memphis
Inc. and the Bronze Hope Chest presented by the
National MS Board.

A. L. ROBERSON, after 42 years with Du Pont Co.,
is enjoying retirement in Winter Haven, Fla.,
where he works in several volunteer jobs.

MERLE SUTER is retired from General Electric
Co., but continues to do some _ part-time
engineering work for the government.

1931

Davip M. Conv\, retired senior partner of his law
firm of Conn & Clendenin, is president of the
Sparta State Bank in Sparta, IIl.

1932
Harry J. BuRKE has retired from National Biscuit
Co. (NABISCO) and spends his winters in
Barbados and his summers in Milford, Conn. He
manages a very active life including tennis almost
daily.

HERBERT G. DOLLAHITE II has been appointed
Consultant International for the Pied-A-Terre

Ng

CLASS NOTES

Hawaii Inc. in:Honolulu. The firm deals with
international real estate transactions.

Woopson B. GILLOCK was recently appointed
assistant state director for Virginia (Northwest) by
the American Association of Retired People.

WILLIAM R. HOWELL, who retired in 1974 from
Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. after 39 years of
service, enjoys retirement and good health.

1933

Dr. PAUL E. HOLBROOK, retired from the practice
of internal medicine and cardiology since 1971,
resides in Ashland, Ky., where he began practice
in 1945.

1935

WILLIAM A. GARRETT has been a realtor and a
mortgage banker for 44 years.

1936

ARTHUR HAUCK retired in 1977 after 41 years in
engineering work. He had travelled extensively
throughout the world, building, operating,
starting-up, and repairing chemical plants. He
now resides in Lutz, Fla.

After 38 years with Western Electric Co. as senior
engineer, HERMAN H. HILLEGass is retired and
resides in Dade City, Fla.

OMER LEE HIRST was honored at a dinner in
Richmond on Jan. 29 by a large group of his
Virginia General Assembly colleagues. Hirst
retired from the Virginia Senate at the end of the
1979 session. He was praised by his fellow
legislators for his services in the Assembly since
1954, especially for the Northern Virginia counties
which he represented. Hirst has received awards
from the Washington Star, anumber of real estate
organizations, and the French government, which
in 1972 made him an Officier Merite Agricole.
Among the guests attending the dinner for Sen.
Hirst and his wife, Nancy, were Gov. John Dalton,
former Governors Lindsay Almond and Linwood
Holton, 44, Lt. Gov. Charles Robb, Attorney
General Marshall Coleman, and former Attorney
General Andrew Miller.

WALTER T. LAWTON has retired after 35 years in
social work and religious leadership. For
approximately 20 years he was leader and leader-
at-large with the American Ethical Union of New
York City.

1939

JAMEs E. Murpny retired in 1972 after 31 years in
the International Division of Clark Equipment
Co. He now resides in Sarasota.

JouN H. SHERRILL JR. is at the University of West
Florida in Pensacola where he administers

18

graduate placement service and cooperative edu-
cation. He expects to attend the first World Con-
ference on Cooperative Education in London May
21-24.

JUDGE G. WILLIAM SwIFT JR. of Lake Charles,
La., has been elected to the Louisiana 3rd Circuit
Court of Appeals.

1940

Ross V. HERSEY retired after 25 years with Du-
Pont Co. in public relations and personnel work.
He now spends his time as a professional speaker
and is billed as the “King of the Shaggy Dog Story.”
Hersey is a member of the National Speakers As-
sociation.

WILLIAM M. READ was elected a senior vice presi-
dent of Atlantic Richfield Co. in November 1978.
He and his family reside in Flintridge, Calif.

1941

LUPTON AVERY is director of advertising and cus-
tomer relations for Chattanooga (Tenn. ) Glass Co.
He and his wife boast of six grandchildren.

1942

LAWRENCE (LARRY) J. BRADFORD is vice president
and the major stockholder in Bruce Cox Associates,
a manufacturers representatives firm, in Walnut
Creek, Calif. Bradford was for many years associ-
ated with Lunkenheimer Co. He and his wife,
Ouida, have three children.

LEE D. PARKER retired from NASA, Langley Air
Force Base, in February 1978. He then began to
work for the Hampton, Va., school system as a
purchasing agent.

1944

WILLIAM S. LATz is the federal funding officer for
Fort Wayne, Ind. He has served four terms in the
state legislature.

1945

FLoyD W. MCRAE, president of an Atlanta adver-
tising and marketing firm, was decorated with the
Legion of Merit at ceremonies conducted at Robins
Air Force Base, Ga., on Dec. 15, 1978, for “Ex-
ceptional Meritorious Conduct in the Performance
of Outstanding Services to the United States.” He
is a colonel in the United States Air Force Re-
serves.

1946

WILLIAM C. OLENDORF, a well-known profes-
sional artist in Chicago, is president of Olendorf
Promotions, Inc., a sales promotion and advertis-
ing firm. Olendorf has had a number of showings
and art exhibitions in the past several years in
Chicago and in 1977 had an exhibit at the Interna-

tional Exhibition and Selling of Paintings at Mar-
shall Field & Co. Picture Gallery. He has been
engaged in many promotional art projects includ-
ing American Airlines, Sears Roebuck & Co.,
Chicago Board of Trade, and SAS Scandinavian
Airlines. Olendorf also is president of the Chicago
200 Galerie, Inc., an art rental and sales gallery.

1948

LEWIS V. BOYLE is minister of the historic New
Monmouth Presbyterian Church in Rockbridge
County, Va.

1949

PETER D. DEBOER and his wife, Jane, have re-
turned from Iran. Deboer is with DuPont Co. in
the energy and materials department, in Rich-
mond, Va.

JAMES T. MAGRUDER served as consultant for the
production of an ecumenical film on the Middle
East, “Hope For Life,” sponsored by Church
World Service. Magruder resides in Decatur, Ga.

LUTHER W. WHITE III, former president of Ran-
dolph-Macon College in Ashland, Va., will become
president of Kentucky Wesleyan College effective
July 1, 1979. White, who resigned from Randolph-
Macon last July, has been legal counsel for a Nor-
folk law firm during the past year. Kentucky Wes-
leyan, a liberal arts college in Owensboro, is affili-
ated with the United Methodist denomination.

1950

The REv. WILLIAM S. CALE, supervisor of voca-
tional rehabilitation services for the blind in
Washington, D.C., has been elected president of
the D. C., Maryland, West Virginia chapter of the
American Association of Workers for the Blind.
He is an ordained minister and serves part time as
minister of the Bealeton, Va., Presbyterian

Church.

GEORGE W. GINN, recently retired from the Cali-
fornia State Lands Commission, is now a geological
consultant. He resides in Los Angeles.

1951

The REV. JAMES C. FENHAGEN was installed as
the 10th dean of the General Theological Seminary
of the Protestant Episcopal Church in New York
on Oct. 24, 1978.

1952

Capt. ROBERT F. CONNALLY is serving as com-
manding officer of the Navy Recruiting District,
Houston, Texas.

1953

JAROSLAV A. (JASHA) DRABEK is secretary and
general counsel of American Flange and Mfg. Co.

 

in Linden, N.J. The firm is a manufacturer of
industrial and convenience closures. Drabek is
also chairman of the American Bar Association’s
subcommittee on new ways of doing business be-
tween East and West.

The REV. CHARLES F. MCNUTT Jr., rector of
Trinity Episcopal Church in Martinsburg, W.Va.,
has been appointed a city councilman. McNutt is
president of the Berkeley County Ministerial As-
sociation, chairman of the Citizen’s Housing Ad-
visory Committee and a member of the advisory
board of the Salvation Army.

JOHN KEITH NELSON of Wichita Falls has been
appointed judge of the 78th District Court of Texas
by Gov. Bill Clements. Nelson’s appointment is
pending approval by the Texas Senate. He is a
partner in the Wichita Falls firm of Russell, Nel-
son, Tate, Gowan and Tate. He was awarded his
law degree from the University of Texas.

1955

WILLIAM H. BARTSCH is at the International Labor
Office Headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland. His
position is that of interregional advisor on or-
ganization of special public works program. Bartsch
also is working on a history of American fighter
pilots in the Philippine Campaigns of 1941-42.

i

1957

JACK K. AGEE is a partner in the Colorado Springs
law firm of Agee, Ewing & Goldstein.

JOHN T. BOONE Jr. is president of Boyle Midway
Division of American Home Products, manufac-
turers of such products as Woolite, Black Flag, and
Old English. The corporate headquarters are in
New York City. Boone resides in Riverside, Conn.

JOHN S. MOREMEN has been elected a vice presi-
dent of Brown-Forman Distillers Corp. He retains
his positions of assistant secretary and associate
general counsel for the Louisville, Ky.-based wines
and spirits company. Moremen joined Brown-
Forman in 1965 as an attorney, after having been
in private practice. He was made an assistant vice
president in 1970 and in 1971 was appointed assis-
tant secretary of Canadian Mist Distillers Ltd., a
Brown-Forman unit. He was advanced to associate
general counsel of the corporation in 1974. More-
men also is an alternate director of the Kentucky
Distillers Association and the Distilled Spirits
Council of the United States.

1959
MARRIAGE: RICHARD A. POWELL and Carol A.
Heim on Dec. 30, 1978. Powell has published an
article concerning reading in secondary schools in
the newsletter of the Idaho chapter of International
Reading Association.

A. C. HUBBARD has been elected director of the
counsel division of T. Rowe Price Associates Inc.

As director, Hubbard is responsible for overseeing
more than 30 investment counselors who manage
the large private institutional accounts—such as
pension funds, profit sharing plans and college
endowments—for the firm. Hubbard joined the
Baltimore-based investment research and counsel
firm in 1962 as an investment analyst and has
advanced to a vice president and director of the
firm. He also serves as a member of the Investment
Policy Review Board. Hubbard has served as di-
rector of the research division at T. Rowe Price
and as vice president and director of Rowe Price

 

New Horizons Fund, a mutual fund investing in
leading, emerging growth companies.

JOHN W. MCCALLUM Jr. has recently returned to
Richmond, Va., after spending 12 years in the
Midwest with Reynolds Metals Co. He has been
promoted with Reynolds and is now regional sales
manager. He and his wife, Helen, have three chil-
dren.

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. is now an associate
professor of law and director of clinical programs at

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian— Robert A. Vinyard, "70, Smith, Robinson & Vinyard,
117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Atlanta—John W. Hines, 63, Trust Co. Bank, P. O. Box 4418,
Atlanta, Ga. 30302
Augusta-Rockingh Ross V. Hersey, 40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—James J. Dawson, 68, °71L, Cable, McDaniel, Bowie
& Bond, The Blaustein Bldg., Baltimore, Md. 21201
Birmingham— David R. Pittman, ’75, The John G. Pittman Agency,
1101 S. 22nd St., Birmingham, Ala. 35203

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, 69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida— Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl. Bank
of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, "74, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, 68L, 710 Commerce
Square, Charleston, W. Va. 25301

Charlotte—Gary L. Murphy, "70, 1925 Shoreham Dr., Charlotte,
N.C. 28211

Chattanooga— Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, "72L, 111 Maclellan Bldg.,
721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402

Chicago— Stanley A. Walton, ’62, '65L, Winston and Strawn, One
First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60670
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—R. Noel Spence, ’56, ’58L, 123 W. Washing-
ton St., Hagerstown, Md. 21740

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., 61, 3919 Cobblestone Dr., Dallas,
Texas 75229

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, °75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—Enmnest I. Cormbrooks III, 67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisbury, Md. 21801

Detroit—James W. Large, 68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern North Carolina— Dr. Mike Miles, 68, 401 Yorktown St.,
Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, 73, 4701 MacDill Ave.,
Tampa, Fla. 33611

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream— Mercer K. Clarke, ’66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. B. Ogilvie Jr., 64, Office of Executive V.P., Baylor
College of Medicine, Texas Medical Center, Houston, Texas 77030
Jacksonville—Charles E. Commander III, 62, 3839 Ortega Blvd..,
Jacksonville, Fla. 32210

Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, "71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock—William F. Rector Jr., "70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205

Long Island—Jeff Wexler, 69, The Oceanside Beacon, Box 126,
Oceanside, N.Y. 11572

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., "70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—Cecil W. Taylor, 39, ’41L, 3844 Peakland Place,
Lynchburg, Va. 24503

Mid-South—Jody Brown, 65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Briad Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbrun Viaduct, Nashville, Tenn. 37215

Mobile— McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601

Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, "72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass., 02149

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, 68, 1208 Pine St., New
Orleans, La. 70118

New York—John M. Ellis, 56, HAUS International, 1212 Avenue
of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, 61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—John Madison Jr., 64, Wilner, Weiss,
Madison & Howell, 411 Commercial National Bank Bldg., Shreve-
port, La. 71101

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, 66, 219 Couch Dr., Oklahoma
City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 2910
Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm Beach, Fla. 33401

Palmetto— A. G. “Joe” Wilson, ’69, 2825 Wilton Rd., W. Columbia,
S.C. 29169

Peninsula— Benjamin A. Williams, "71, 134 Hampton Roads Ave.,
Hampton, Va. 23661

Pensacola— Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, 3985 Piedmont Rd., Pensacola,
Fla. 32503

Philadelphia— Edward W. Coslett III, "70, 64 Paxon Hollow Rd.,
Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, 73, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.,
Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnson, ’56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond— Robert H. Yevich, 70, 6931 Navaho Rd., Richmond,
Va. 23225

Roanoke—James M. Turner Jr., 67, "71L, 2913 Carolina Ave.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington, Va.
24450

San Antonio— Ralph E. Lehr Jr., "73, 10 Elmcourt, San Antonio,
Texas 78209

St. Louis— Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., 66, 330 Oakley Lane, St.
Louis, Mo. 63122

South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, 74, P. O. Box
695, Greenville, S. C. 29602

Southern California— Frank A. McCormick, 53, Box 1762, Santa
Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Thomas P. Winborne, 751, 53L, 3510 Arnold
Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr., 54, 60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531

Tidewater— William P. Ballard Jr., "73, 409 Yarmouth St., Nor-
folk, Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, ’69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25719

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, ’78, 2462 E. 30th St., Tulsa, Okla.
74114

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, ’70, Arthur Andersen & Co.,
1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, 53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abi-
lene, Texas 79605

Wisconsin—Price M. Davis Jr., 36, 10060 N. Range Line Rd.,
Mequon, Wisc. 53092

19

 

 

C. W. Day III, ’61

the University of Richmond Law School. He is a
member of the board of directors of the Richmond
Urban League and the Greater Richmond Child
Advocacy Office. Shepherd also is the newsletter
editor for the criminal law section of the Virginia
State Bar.

1960

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN is manager in the real
estate investment department of Aetna Life Insur-
ance Co. in Hartford, Conn. Chamberlin, his wife,
Kathy, and their two daughters reside in Sims-
bury.

JAMES R. Loutir has moved to Wilmington, N.C.,
where he is starting an insurance business.

Howarp C. WoL JR. is national sales manager of |

Stafford-Reeves Inc. a division of Reckitt and Col-
man of London, England. The firm also owns the
R.T. French Co. of Rochester, N.Y., where Wolf
has worked for the past two years. Stafford-Reeves
Inc. manufactures artist and stationery supplies.

1961

CHARLES W. Day III, CLU, account manager at
Connecticut General Life Insurance Company's
Pittsburgh brokerage office, has been awarded that
firm’s Silver Key Award for 1978. The award
recognizes Day as one of Connecticut General's
leading brokerage producers and qualifies him to
attend the firm’s annual conference which will
take place this year at St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.

ROBERT E. SHEPHERD JR. (See 1959.)

1962

ALAN M. Corwin is in Olympia, Wash., where he
is with Dean Witter Reynolds as an account execu-
tive. He also conducts investment seminars in a
tri-county area, and broadcasts radio stock market
reports.

A. C. HUBBARD (See 1959.)

1963

KEN C. KOWALSKI is associated with the Scott
Insurance Agency in Lynchburg, Va. He is adeacon
of the First Presbyterian Church, chairman of the
Youth/Educator Committee of the Lynchburg
Chamber of Commerce and a director of the Cen-
tral Virginia United Way.

JouHN P. Marcu has been named manager of the
national services and correspondent banking de-
partment of the State National Bank of E] Paso.

E. Purtiep McCCA.es of Belle Haven, Va., has
been appointed by Gov. Dalton to the Migrant
and Seasonal Farm Workers Commission.

GEORGE D. REED Jr. has been promoted to pro-
duction manager at the downtown Baltimore plant

20

of the grocery products division of McCormick and
Co., Inc. He had been production manager at the
division’s plant in Hunt Valley, Md.

E. BRENT WELLS is national credit manager for
Xerox Corp. in Rochester, N.Y.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN E. MICHAELSEN,
their third daughter, Susannah, on May 23, 1978.
The Michaelsens reside in La Jolla, Calif.

TAIN P. TOMPKINS is an economics officer at the
American Embassy in Beirut, Lebanon.

1965

JAMES N. CARGILL JR. is executive director of Big
Brothers of the Peninsula, which serves Newport
News, Hampton, Williamsburg and Yorktown, Va.

Dr. ROBERT E. LEE III is in the full-time practice
of psychotherapy and marital counseling in Bir-
mingham, Mich. Lee is a consultant to several
community agencies and was made a diplomate in
clinical psychology by the American Board of Pro-
fessional Psychology. He is president of the Michi-
gan Association of Marriage Counselors, president
of the Michigan Psychologist Political Action
Committee and treasurer of the Michigan Society
of Consulting Psychologists.

JaMEs S. LEGG, after specializing in physics at the
University of North Carolina, joined the space
program and was part of the team that established
the flight and navigation plan for the rocket that
reached Mars in December 1978. He currently is
associated with Martin Marietta Corp. and is de-
veloping a similar project for a rocket which is
expected to be launched, perhaps in 1982, to study
Jupiter and its moons. |

JosEPH G. WHEELER has moved to Charlotte,
N.C., to join Carolina Tractor and Equipment
Co., a Caterpillar dealer.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. MICHEL MARCOUX, a
son, Valmore Michel Magloire, on Oct. 15, 1978,
in Washington. He joins a step-brother, Phillip
Hurst. Marcoux practices law in Washington.

Harry E. BRooksy is an exploration geologist for
the Louisiana Land and Exploration Co. and works
primarily on offshore petroleum exploration.
Brookby resides in the Houston suburb of King-
wood, Texas, with his wife, Judy, and three chil-
dren, John, Bonnie and Harry.

BAXTER L. DavIs is a partner in the Atlanta law
firm of Davis, Matthews and Quigley. Davis and
his wife recently adopted a daughter, Lindsey
Elizabeth, who was born on May 19, 1977, in
Seoul, Korea.

KEMBLE WHITE III is in a general law practice in
Dallas and specializes in tax law. White and his
wife, Daphne, a real estate agent, have a son,
Kemble, 7, and a daughter, Morgan, 2.

1967
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. Mac HOuuapay, a
second daughter; Sarah Brevard, on July 24, 1978.
Holladay went to Columbus, Ind., in July 1976 as
president of the Columbus Area Chamber of Com-
merce. He also is president of the Indiana Com-
merce Executive Association.

GALEN E. ANDERSEN participated in a U. S. gov-
ernment sponsored investment mission to the
Philippines, Singapore, Indonesia, Malaysia and
Thailand in November 1978 to meet with govern-
ment and business leaders of those countries. He
returned to Southeast Asia in January and will
attend the first meeting of the Asian-U. S. Business
Council in Manila during July 1979. Andersen is
president of the Nokota Company in Bismarck,
N.D.

PETER L. HEUMANN is with Peterson, Howell,
and Heather, a Baltimore business services com-
pany, as vice president of financial services. He
and his wife, Rebecca, have two children.

GrEGORY S. MACLEOD is completing a graduate
program in painting at the School of the Museum
of Fine Arts in Boston and looks forward to a spring
exhibition to conclude his work. MacLeod plans to
move to Vermont in the immediate future.

1968

After 21 months working in Germany, Dr. H.
GILBERT SMITH JR. and his wife, Wendy, have
returned to the United States. Smith is now a
research associate with the Department of Physio-
logy and Biophysics at the Washington University
Medical School.

WILLIAM W. STUART is a visiting associate pro-
fessor of law at the University of Illinois at Cham-

paign.

CHARLES B. TOMM will complete his LL.M. in
taxation at New York University in July 1979. In
August he will become vice president and general
counsel of Arkansas Best Corp. in Fort Smith, Ark.
The firm has subsidiaries in trucking, furniture
manufacturing, data processing and truck tire re-
treading.

1969

Dr. LEONARD A. BLANCHARD is a technical writer
in the curricula development department of the
Southland Corporation in Dallas. He had been at
the El Centro College of the Dallas County Com-
munity College District. His wife, Marsha Hunter,
is a practicing attorney in Arlington, Texas. Their
daughter, Sarah, is in grade school.

 

D. D. Kympton, ’70

ROBERT E. HARRISON, a practicing attorney in
Scottsville and Bowling Green, Ky., has recently
had an article published in the University of
Louisville School of Law Journal of Family Law.
The article is entitled “Repossession Under the
UCC: The Rights of the Creditor and the Debtor.”

DR. BRITTAIN MCJUNKIN, his wife, Judy, and
their two sons have moved to Charleston, W. Va.,
where McJunkin is on the staff of the Charleston
division of the West Virginia University Medical
Center and also is in the private practice of gas-
troenterology.

PEVERIL O. SETTLE III has become a partner in
the Fort Worth, Texas, law firm of Garrett, Settle
and Callaway.

KEMBLE WHITE III (See 1966.)

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Norwoop O. Morrison,
their third. child, a daughter, Mary McCulloch, on
Oct. 30, 1978, in Charleston, W. Va. Morrison is
personnel manager for Walker Machinery Co.,
the Caterpillar dealer for West Virginia: °

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GERALD W. WEEDON, a
son, James William II, on Feb. 13, 1979. The
Weedons, who also have a daughter, reside in
Jacksonville, Fla., where Weedon is a practicing
attorney.

RICHARD B. ARMSTRONG has been elected vice
president at Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.’s
representative office in New York, where he has
been office manager. Armstrong has been with
Wachovia since 1974. He earned his M.B.A. at
Tulane.

In June 1979 HENrRy A. FLEISHMAN will complete
his general surgery training at the University of
Kentucky. He plans to enter practice in general
and vascular surgery in Eden, N.C.

ROBERT O. GUYTHER received his master’s degree
in urban and environmental planning from the
University of Virginia on Jan. 21, 1979. Guyther
specialized in housing and land use studies. He
and three colleagues have formed the consulting
firm of Community Development Associates in

Leonardtown, Md. The firm specializes in land.

use analysis, demographic studies, technical assis-
tance for federal and state grants, as well as bro-
chure development and graphic design.

Davip D. KYMPTON has been promoted to vice
president in charge of the commercial banking
services department for Bank of Virginia in Rich-
mond. He received his M.B.A. from the University
of Virginia and is enrolled in the Stonier Graduate
School of Banking at Rutgers University.

JOSEPH T. LYKEs III has been named director of
traffic and assigned to San Francisco for the Lykes

  

J. O. Mathews Jr., 7 (OW~W. Wyatt, 70

   

 

 

West Coast Division of Lykes Brothers Steamship
Company Inc.

JAMES O. MATHEWS Jr., after working in the
Dean of Student's office at W&L in 1971, joined
Citibank’s National Banking Group in September
1971, and upon completion of the management
training program in October 1972 was assigned to
the financial institutions division. In 1975 he was
promoted to assistant vice president. In May of
1978 Mathews took a position with Citibank’s Los
Angeles office and in January 1979 was promoted
to the position of vice president. He writes that he
is now adjusted to the West Coast and enjoys the
exciting life in Los Angeles.

LARRY W. WERTZ is a partner in the St. Peters-
burg, Fla., law firm of Williams, Brasfield and
Wertz. He and his wife, Marie, have two children,
Michael Brent, 9, and Heather, 6.

W. WHITLOW WyaTT has formed Wyatt & As-
sociates, a certified public accounting firm in At-
lanta, Ga. Wyatt spent the past seven years in the
tax and accounting departments of Ernst & Ernst
in Atlanta. He holds a CPA certificate from the
states of Georgia and Virginia and a master’s degree
of business administration from the Wharton
Graduate Division of the University of Pennsy]-
vania. Wyatt and his wife, Claudia, have two chil-
dren.

CHARLES R. YATES JR. is working with the Atlanta
investment counseling firm of Roe, Martin and
Neiman.

1971

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HENRY (Sk1IP) NOTTBERG
III, a daughter, Jamie Blair, on Oct. 24, 1978.
Nottberg is executive vice president of U. S. En-
gineering Co. with offices in Kansas City, Mo.,
Loveland, Colo., Reno, Nev., and Niles, Ohio. The
Nottbergs, who also have a son, reside in Shawnee
Mission, Kans.

BIRTH: Mr. and MRS. KENELM L. SHIRK III, a
son, Justin Aaron, on May 1, 1978. Shirk is with
the Lancaster, Pa., law firm of Shirk, Reist and
Buckwalter. He was recently elected to the board
of directors of the Ephrata Chamber of Com-
merce.

FRANK C. BROOKS JR. has recently been promoted
to the position of vice president at Morgan Guar-
anty Trust Co. in New York City.

ARTHUR F.. CLEVELAND II has earned his M.B.A.
from the University of South Carolina and is work-
ing as a financial analyst for W. R. Grace and Co.
in Spartanburg, S.C.

JOHN O. ELLIs JR. was released from the U. S.
Army in September 1978. Following a country-
wide vacation, he settled in Atlanta to practice law
with a specialty in criminal law.

1972
MARRIAGE: PAuL E. WEEKS and Donna South-
ern on Aug. 19, 1978, in El] Paso, Texas. Ed Wiley,
‘74, was a guest at the wedding. Weeks is an Army
captain who took command of a NATO Nike Her-
cules Missile Battery in Baumholder, Germany, in

October 1978.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. RALPH D. CALDRONEY, a
son, Charles Thomas, on Dec. 5, 1978, in Mount
Pleasant, S.C. In July Caldroney will move to
Gainesville, Fla., where he has a fellowship in
critical care medicine at the University of Florida.

Professor DANIEL W. ARMSTRONG of Bowdoin
College’s chemistry department has been awarded
a $10,000 American Chemical Society-Petroleum
Research Fund grant for fundamental research in
the petroleum field. The subject of his work is
“Phase Transfer Catalysis.” He and three student
aides are at work testing and framing a pattern
process which will be published soon. A patent for
the process also is being sought.

ROBERT G. BROOKBY has been named assistant

vice president in the Winston-Salem office of
Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. He has been with

Wachovia since 1972 and is in the national banking.

department. Brookby earned his M.B.A. at Stan-
ford Business School.

LEE N. EISEN is a partner in Automated Business
Systems, a data processing consulting firm. He
and his wife, Roxanne, have two children, Seth
and Sara. They reside in Springfield, N.J.

ROBERT J. HUMPHREYS resides at Virginia Beach
and is assistant commonwealth’s attorney for the
city of Norfolk. He specializes in cases involving
adult felony, consumer fraud, and white collar
crime. Humphreys was previously an assistant at-
torney general with the Delaware Department of
Justice.

1973
MARRIAGE: BRIAN E. RICHARDSON and Ellen
Hunter on March 18, 1978, in Fort Myers, Fla.
They reside in Tallahassee where Richardson is a
radio/television writer for the Democrat. He earn-

ed an M.A. in communications from the University
of Florida in March 1975.

MARRIAGE: Mark B. THOMPSON and Marte
Thornton on July 22, 1978, in Wake Forest, N.C.
Thompson and his brother are managers of
Thompson Cadillac Oldsmobile Inc. in Raleigh.

Dr. JAMES F. BARTER will begin a residency in
obstetrics and gynecology at Duke University
Medical School in July.

STEPHEN K. DEay is tax counsel for International
Bank, a multi-national diversified holding company
in Washington, D.C. He had been an attorney
with the Internal Revenue Service for five years.

21

 

  
  

JOHN M. SHUEY JR. is a clerk for Judge Edwin F.
Hunter Jr. of the U. S. District Court in Lake
Charles, La. He graduated in May 1978 from law
school at Louisiana State, where he was a member
of Law Review. Shuey had worked prior to law
school for Readak Educational Services teaching a
reading development program and as an abstractor
for DeSoto Title Research Co. of Mansfield, La.

1974

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davin L. Moore JR., a
son, David Laidley III, on Feb. 7, 1979, in Balti-
-more. Moore works in the office of finance-invest-
ment division of the Federal Home Loan Bank
board in Washington. He is an investment officer
and manages a money market portfolio for the
Federal Home Loan Banks and Federal Home
Loan Mortgage Corp.

FRANCIS J. CRILLEY III has bought a house in
Hanover, Pa., and is working in New Oxford for
Fargo International, manufacturers of law en-
forcement equipment.

CapT. JAMES C. FERGUSON earned his master’s
degree in business from the University of Okla-
homa. He and his wife, Cindy, reside in Vicenza,
Italy, where he is stationed with the U. S. Army.

In competition with agents from 18 states, JULIAN
S. FULCHER III has been named Shenandoah Life
Insurance Co.’s Agent of the Year. The award is
based on new business produced and percentage
increase over the previous year. Fulcher works in
the Roanoke agency.

MICHAEL GUROIAN works as merchandise man-
ager for Sarand, Inc., a catalog distributor of office
materials in New York. He resides in Greenwich,
Conn.

FLOYD W. LEwIs JR. will graduate from the New
Orleans Baptist Theological Seminary in May
1979.

E. J. (Skip) LITcHFUuss JR. was among the W&L
representatives on the U.S. Lacrosse Team.
Others on the team were Tom Keigler, 77, and
Dave Warfield, ’75. Ben Sherman, ’75, was the
sports information director. The team spent five
weeks visiting seven European countries. Litchfuss
and his wife, Ann, reside in Baltimore.

DAVID TuRK is the athletic director and head foot-
ball coach at Roanoke Catholic High School. He
also is head lacrosse coach and a social studies
teacher.

ERIC DAVID WHITE is a second-year law student
at the T. C. Williams School in Richmond. He is
vice chairman of the moot court board and works
in the labor section for the firm of Hunton and
Williams.

22

Daniel W. Armstrong, 72, (left) and Bowdoin
student prepare to run a phase transfer catalyst

wt wm reaction in laboratory.

1975

MARRIAGE: THaD GRUNDY JR. and Lester Nott-
ingham on Aug. 15, 1978, in Fort Walton Beach,
Fla. Members of the wedding included classmates
Gardner Britt, Barney Skelton, Philip Sellers, Top
Allaun and Mercer West. Grundy is a second-year
law student at the University of Houston.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD MARTIN KOCK and Marilyn
Dale Porter on Dec. 30, 1978, in Concord, N.C.
Members of the wedding party included James E.
Kock, ’°77, Dale B. Marden, ’75, and James V.
Baird, 75. Also attending the wedding were: Sin-
clair J. Harcus Jr., 77, John D. Rosen, ’77, Arthur
G. Barriault, ’78, and Timothy S. Fowler, ’75. The
couple resides in Charlotte, N.C., where Kock is
associated with the law firm of Newitt and Bruny.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GRADY FRANK JR., a son,
Grady III, on May 19, 1978. The family resides in
Alexandria, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. BOWMAN WILLIAMS, a
son, Bowman Campbell, on Sept. 6, 1978. Bowman
is associated with the Ben C. Williams Bakery
Services, Inc., in Dallas, Texas.

CHARLES E. ALEXANDER graduated from the
Chicago Kent College of Law. He is associated
with the Chicago law firm of Kirsh, Nadler and
Berman, Ltd.

Davip A. CANTO works in Stratford, Conn., as a
budget analyst for Sikorsky Aircraft, a division of
United Technologies Corp.

RANDY L. FLINK has become a banking associate
in the Multinational Division of the First National
Bank in Dallas. He is assigned to the Asia/Middle
East Group with primary responsibilities in com-
mercial banking activities in Japan and mainland

China.

WILLIAM P. GARTEN earned a B.A. in English
from Marietta College in 1976. While there he was
awarded the Margaret Ward Martin Prize for
Creative Writing in 1975 and the Emerson Prize
for Poetry in 1976. Garten is collection manager
for a bank in Parkersburg, W. Va. He also is a
freelance writer and part-time graduate student.

JOHN F. GaRTH is cash manager in the investment
department of the First National Bank of Mobile,
Ala. After graduation he worked in Hawaii as a
Fuller Brush salesman and a hotel employee. Garth
then bought and restored a sailboat in which he
cruised the Hawaiian Islands and the South Pacific
for a year-and-a-half before going to Mobile to
work.

J. WILLIAM LASSETTER graduated at the top of his
class from the Florida A&M School of Architecture
in May 1978. He is working as a realtor-associate
for Tallahassee Realty Co. and is doing indepen-
dent work in residential design.

JOHN S. ORTON is practicing law with the Houston
firm of Greenwood, Koby, Symonds and Bussey.

Mark S. REIFSLAGER is attending a teacher train-
ing course in Transcendental Meditation in Seelis-
berg, Switzerland. Reifslager resides in Abilene,
Texas.

MONTGOMERY VICKERS will graduate from the
Pennsylvania College of Optometry in Philadelphia
this May. He plans to practice in Virginia or West
Virginia.

CHARLES B. TOMM (See 1968.)

1976
MARRIAGE: RICHARD DEAN BLASSER JR. and
Jayne Ann Snyder of Charlottesville, on Jan. 28,
1979. Blasser is manager of the A&P grocery store
in Lexington, Va.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Harry L. McCartnuy II,
a daughter, Erin Elizabeth, on Feb. 20, 1979, in
Richmond.

THOMAS H. BAUMANN is the data process manager
of the IBM installation for the Great Lakes Rubber
Co. He resides in Milwaukee and is an officer of
the new W&L alumni chapter in Wisconsin.

HUNTER N. CHARBONNET was recently named
manager of the uptown New Orleans’ office of
Investors Swayze McClaughry Inc. Charbonnet
also is a real estate broker and holds the realtor
institute graduate designation.

Davip L. DARRALL is a sales representative for
Schaefer Sash and Door Co. He resides in Atlanta.

Davip K. EUBANK is employed in the retail divi-
sion of American Security Bank in Washington.
He had been with Citizens Bank and Trust Co. of
Maryland. Eubank also is working part time on his
M.B.A. with a major in finance at American Uni-
versity.

Jay R. FRIEs is an articles editor for the Law
Review at the Marshall-Wythe Law School at Wil-
liam and Mary. He will graduate in May.

ROBERT J. GREY JR. was elected to the board of
directors of the Richmond Urban League in Janu-
ary. He is a partner in the law firm of Grey and
Wesley.

PuiLip L. HANRAHAN is in charge of personnel for
the 2nd Battalion of the 63rd Armor at Fort Riley,
Kans.

TERRENCE L. MCCaRTIN is a first lieutenant, work-
ing in encoding, with the U. S. Army in Pirmasens,
West Germany.

PAUL L. VAVALA has been elected a banking officer
in the High Point, N.C., office of Wachovia Bank

 

 

and Trust Co. He is a retail marketing officer.

PEYTON A. VIA is assistant manager of the methods
and systems section at Virginia National Bank in
Norfolk. He plays club lacrosse for the Virginia
Beach Lacrosse Club.

1977

BLAIR N. BELTON is working as a computer pro-
grammer for Life of Georgia in Atlanta.

JosEPH D. DUBUQUE is manager of Mid-America
Marble, a synthetic marble manufacturer and a
subsidiary of Plumbers Supply of St. Louis. He
also works in sales for Plumbers Supply, a family
owned business. Dubuque resides in St. Louis.

PHILLIP J. ENRICO JR., a second lieutenant, is
assistant adjutant of the 193rd Combat Support
Battalion of the 193rd Infantry Brigade at Fort
Clayton, Canal Zone.

I Eat, Therefore I Am, a guide to restaurants and
bars in Ann Arbor, Mich., by ROBERT J. FRANK is
in its second printing. Frank continues to travel
and write about his journeys.

,)
WILLIAM I. GORMAN is employed by Ecological
Analysts, Inc., in Baltimore, Md. f

i

WILLIAM E.. HARRISON JR. will graduate in May
1979 from the University of Virginia School of
Architecture’s graduate program in urban and en-
vironmental planning. Harrison plans to work for
three years and then attend law school.

JAMES G. HousTON has been named administra-
tive assistant in a branch office of the Central
National Bank of Cleveland. He resides in Shaker
Heights, Ohio.

Ensign CHRISTOPHER A. JOHNSON completed a
year of nuclear engineering training for the U. S.
Navy and is now attending Submarine School at
New London, Conn. In May, Johnson will report
for duty aboard the USS Finback, a nuclear power-
ed attack submarine homeported in Norfolk.

JAMES E. KOCH is a training officer for the 76th
Combat Engineer Battalion at Fort Meade, Md.
He has collateral duty as a White House social
aide.

DANA LAFokrGE is employed as a financial analyst
in the U. S. Banking Department of the Bankers
Trust Co. in New York City. He resides on Staten
Island.

BENJAMIN M. LOwE, a second lieutenant, is as-
signed to an artillery detachment in northern Ger-
many.

STEPHEN R. O'NEILL is a chemist for the Lummus
Co., an engineering firm building a $1.2 billion
petrochemical complex in Iraq. O'Neill
supervised the training of Iraqi chemists in this

country before leaving in April for a two year tour
of duty in Iraq.

CLAYTON W. PRESTON is office manager for an
Atlanta architectural firm. He plans to do graduate
work in architecture and is promoting decen-
tralized energy sources and energy independence
for communities.

EARL W. (SANDY) STRADTMAN JR., after spending
the summer of 1978 as a waiter at Hilton Head
Island, S.C.., is in his second year of medical school
at Harvard.

SAMUEL E.. THOMPSON is news editor of the Times-
Courier in Ellijay, Ga.

FRANK K. TURNER JR. is employed by the Mer-
cantile Safe Deposit and Trust Co. of Baltimore.
He is a second-semester student in the evening
division of the University of Baltimore Law School.

1978
MARRIAGE: CHARLES H. NOBLE III and Mary
Jaclyn Payne on Jan. 6, 1979, in San Antonio. Don
Noble, ‘79, Guy Brossy, ’80, and Gustav Fritchie,
‘78, were members of the wedding. The Nobles
reside in San Antonio.

MAURICE G. ADAMS is a management trainee for
the Merchants National Bank of Allentown, Pa.
He resides in nearby Emmaus.

ALEXANDER H. BisHop IV spent the summer after
graduation traveling to the West Coast. He worked
in Santa Barbara until December, then returned
to Charlottesville. Bishop plans to enter sports
journalism.

MARK A. BRADLEY won the British Universities’
featherweight boxing championship on Feb. 18,
1979, in Bath, England. He competed against other

At the wedding of Thad Grundy, ’75, are (top row)
Barney Skelton, ’75; Bill Harmon, ’74; Billy Hiden, ’75;
Alex Kempe, ’75; Stan Taylor, ’73; David Pittman, ’75;

i Mercer West, 75; Top Alluan, ’75; David Trice, ’78;
Philip Sellers, ’75; Billy Pritchard, ’76; Tom

| Montgomery, 77; and Perry Sowell, ’75; and (front

| row) Wilson Folmar, ’75; Gardner Britt, ’75; Bill Wells,
75; Joe Welden, ’75; Thad Grundy; Johnny Scruggs,
‘77; and Douglas Hunter, ’77.

university teams from England, Scotland, Ireland
and Wales. He is a Rhodes Scholar studying
modern history at Oxford’s Christ Church Col-
lege.

GEORGE W. FAISON JR. spent five months studying
and working in Paris.

PETER L. FARREN is working for his father in the
home construction business in Sanford, N.C.

Joun D. HERMAN is in his first year at Princeton
Theological Seminary.

JOHN S. HuDSON, a second lieutenant, completed
training at the U. S. Army Intelligence Center at
Fort Huachucha, Ariz. In March he reported to
Fort Stewart, Ga., for three years of duty with the
24th Infantry Division.

HOWARD F. Knipp III teaches math and science at
the Gilman Middle School in Baltimore where he
also is a wrestling coach.

JAMES G. SHERIDAN Jr. has received a graduate
scholarship to study engineering at the University
of Michigan in the fall of 1979.

GREGORY C. SIEMINSKI, a second lieutenant, is an
assistant intelligence officer with the 25th Infantry
Division at Schofield Barracks, Hawaii.

MICHAEL L. STEVENS is a trial counsel for the staff
judge advocate office of the U. S. Army at Fort
Hood, Texas.

ROBERT L. SULT spent last summer working at the
A-Bar-A Ranch in Encampment, Wyo. He is nowa
commercial credit analyst at the First National
Bank in Dallas.

BENJAMIN B. SWAN is teaching English at Episco-
pal High School in Alexandria, Va. His department
head is David R. Dougherty, ’68.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1903

ROBERT TATE WALLACE, a retired Presbyterian
minister, died March 4, 1979, at the Sunnyside
Presbyterian Home near Harrisonburg, Va. Wal-
lace began his ministry as pastor in Crozet, Va., in
1916. Prior to his ministry he had been a farmer in
Spottswood, Va. Wallace held pastorates in Dothan
and Marion, Ala., and also in Monticello, Fla. He
has been retired since 1971.

1914

EGBERT B. DOGGETT, a long-time employee of
Bethlehem Steel Corp., died Oct. 2, 1978. Doggett

was an executive in the accounting department
until his retirement in 1961. He also was an actuary
for the pension and relief plans for the corporation
and a veteran of World War I.

HAROLD ELLSWORTH HOPWOOD, a long-time
native of Uniontown, Pa., and a former partner
and manager of the Fayette Paint Supply Co., died
June 28, 1978. He and his wife had lived for several
years in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., having moved there
for reasons of health. Hopwood became the owner
of several apartments in Florida and continued to
maintain his home in Uniontown, Pa. He was a
World War I Navy veteran.

23

IN MEMORIAM

1916

JOHN BURCHELL MOORE, a retired educator, died
Jan. 4, 1979. He had taught at Richmond Academy
in Augusta, at Georgia Institute of Technology,
and at Georgia State University.

1918

JOSEPH J. McGowan, an attorney in Brownfield,
Texas, died Sept. 1, 1978. He began his practice in
Brownfield and continued to practice law there
until approximately two years before his death.
McGowan was county attorney for Terry County
from 1918 to 1922 and mayor of the city of Brown-
field from April 1922 to December 1932. He then
again served as mayor from 1933 to 1936. A former
president of the Brownfield Bar Association, Mc-
Gowan also was a member of the Texas and Ameri-
can Bar Associations.

1920

Dr. VERNON WILLIAM RICHARDS, a long-time
dentist who resided in Salisbury, Md., died Jan.
27, 1979. Richards also had interest in the Red Star
Transportation Co. and was a real estate broker.

1924
LYNN K. BRUGH JR. of St. James, Md., died March
6, 1979. Brugh had been associated with the stock
brokerage firm of White Weld but retired some
years ago. He was a member of the Episcopal
Church, the Assembly Club and the U.S. Philatelic
Classics Society.

A. P. WALKER, an independent oil producer and
lease broker for many years in Magnolia, Ark.,
died Jan. 9, 1979. Walker had been in the oil
business for more than 40 years. He had retired
from active business after an illness in 1973.

1925

WILLIAM ASKEW MCRITCHIE, a long-time resi-
dent of Bronxville, N.Y., died Feb. 1, 1979. After
40 years service he retired in 1968 as vice president
and senior trust officer of Morgan Guaranty Trust
Co. of New York. McRitchie was active in civic and
charitable organizations throughout the New York
area. He served on the board of governors of Law-
rence Hospital for 14 years and as president from
1965-71. He was a director of the local Red Cross
Chapter. Among his other organizational interests
were the Episcopal Mission Society of the Diocese
of New York, the Cathedral Church of St. John the
Divine, the Federation of Protestant Welfare
Agencies and St. Peter’s School of Peekskill.

1926

Maj. ROBERT EVERETT LEE, an attorney who

served for many years in the Jag Corps of the 3rd:

Army Division, died in San Antonio, Texas, Dec.
13, 1978. Lee did extensive service in Germany in
the early 1950s.

24

1931

BARRATT O'HARA JR., an attorney in Chicago,
Ill., died Dec. 28, 1978.

1934

FRANCIS CULLEN BRYANT, a merchandise man-
ager in Orangeburg, S.C., died Dec. 14, 1978. He
was a veteran of World War II.

JOEL S. SNYDER JR., formerly of Fayetteville,
N.C., died Feb. 1, 1979, in Atlanta, Ga. Before his
retirement in 1976 from the insurance business,
Snyder was manager of the bond department for
the Atlanta Office of the Maryland Casualty Co.
He served with the Navy in the South Pacific
during World War II and attained the rank of
lieutenant commander.

1937

CHARLES DUDLEY WITHERS, a career foreign
service man and former ambassador, died in
Naples, Fla., on Jan. 1, 1979. Withers joined the
State Department in 1942 and his first overseas
post was Leopoldville which is now called Kinshasa
in Zaire, Africa. Subsequent posts included Bom-
bay, Dacca, Karachi and Nairobi, where he served
as Consul General. In 1960 Withers went to Lon-
don to attend the Imperial Defense College and a
year later became a Foreign Service Inspector. In
1963 Withers was appointed ambassador to Rwanda,
the first American ambassador to that small African
country. After a full tour in Rwanda he and his
wife, Jane, returned to the State Department in
Washington where he became an examiner for the
Foreign Service. He retired in 1967.

1938

POWELL GLASS JrR., retired president of Carter
Glass & Sons Publishers Inc. and former publisher
of the News and the Daily Advance in Lynchburg,
Va., died Feb. 6, 1979. Glass was treasurer of the
Virginia Press Association, and served on its board
for more than seven years. He was active in many
civic and philanthropic groups. Powell Glass was
the grandson of the late U. S. Senator Carter Glass.
While in the Marine Corps during World War II,
Glass survived the sinking of two Naval vessels.
He was the commanding officer of Lynchburg’s
first Marine Corps Reserve Unit. Glass returned
to active duty after the outbreak of the Korean
conflict and attained the rank of lieutenant colonel.
He was publisher and editor of a weekly newspaper
in Bay St. Louis, Miss., from 1958 until his return
to Lynchburg in 1969. An editorial in the Lynch-
burg newspaper spoke of his life as “marked by
distinguished achievements in many fields—in
military service to his country in two wars, in
academics, in civil and humanitarian causes, and in
the editing and publishing of newspapers . . . He
was one of those rare individuals who, although
born into an affluent and famous family, was equally

at home in all walks of life.”

   

it
1939

JOHN JOHNSTON Davis JR., a prominent attorney
in Louisville, Ky., died at his home July 1, 1978.
He was a past president of the John Little Mission
and the Cook Benevolent Home. A member of the
local and state bar associations, Davis was a former
trustee of the Louisville Country Day School. He
also was a trustee of the Second Presbyterian

Church.

1941

EDWIN Hossy BODENHEIM, a life-long resident
of Longview, Texas, died Jan. 28, 1979. After at-
tending Virginia Military Institute he received his
law degree from Washington and Lee where he
was a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the Order of
the Coif. He served with distinction in the U. S.
Air Force during World War II, retiring as a lieu-
tenant colonel. His decorations for military service
include the American Theater Ribbon, American
Defense Ribbon and Victory Medal. After his mili-
tary service he returned to Longview where he
became associated with Bodenheim Insurance
Agency which he continued to operate until his
retirement in 1976.

HENRY THOMAS MARTIN JR., an investors con-
sultant and a former civic leader, died in Roanoke,
Va., on Jan. 26, 1979. Martin was at one time a
resident manager of Mason-Hagan, Inc., an in-
vestment bankers firm of Richmond. He was also
executive vice president of the American plant of
the Bio-Chemical Corp. at Salem and at that time
also was president of the Roanoke Area Manufac-
turers Association. During World War II, Martin
served with the U. S. Navy Air Force and held the
rank of lieutenant in the U. S. Navy Reserves.
Martin was president of the Roanoke Jaycees in
1948 and a former vice president of the Virginia
Jaycees.

WILLIAM LEROY SCHULTHEIS, a long-time exe-
cutive with the Richmond real estate firm of
Schmidt & Wilson, Inc., died Feb. 17, 1979.
Schultheis was manager of the insurance depart-
ment for the firm. He was a World War II Army
veteran.

1949

JAMES E.. MILLER, owner and operator of James
E. Miller Co., a manufacturer's representative
firm in Richmond, Va., died Jan. 11, 1979. He was
a veteran of World War II having served with the
U. S. Army Air Corps.

1953

ROBERT EUGENE JOHNSON JR., a resident of
Louisville, Ky., died Dec. 24, 1978. He was presi-
dent of several Louisville business firms, including
a representative of Stromberg-Carlson, before
joining the Department of Natural Resources. He
was active in the 100th U. S. Army Reserve Divi-
sion.

 

 

NY ters of this stature appear in SHENANDOAH:

ROBERT PENN WARREN ROBERT LOWELL
ALLEN TATE RICHARD HOWARD
PETER TAYLOR | REYNOLDS PRICE
ELIZABETH BISHOP W. S. MERWIN

Roy FULLER JOYCE CAROL OATES

‘LT wo stories that appeared in SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards for distinguished
brief fiction.

Won't you subscribe to Washington and Lee
University’s award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for’
[] One year @ $5.00 [_] Two years @ $8.00
My check for $ enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

City State Zip

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

OS

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

(for members and their immediate families) presents a

Rhine River Cruise

DELUXE
August 7-17, 1979 Dulles Departure

SII 9 9 COMPLETE Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $225.00

a oun EXCLUSIVE DELUXE TOUR INCLUDES:
YOUR PRIVATE JET

e Roundtrip direct jet transportation via chartered PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS’ JET
CLIPPER featuring comfortable seating, meals and complimentary cocktails; stereo and in-
flight movies available at a nominal internationally-regulated charge

 

J

e Deluxe accommodations for three nights at the conveniently located, BRUSSELS
HILTON HOTEL“**

e Full American breakfast daily (tax and service included)

e Specially arranged Gala Welcome or Farewell Banquet

e Gourmet dinners two evenings ata SELECTION OF THE FINEST RESTAURANTST

RHINE RIVER I

e Deluxe motorcoach tour through Holland to the port of Nijmegen; board the »€D German
Rhine Line's MS FRANCE, tt exclusively chartered for your three day/three night Rhine
River cruise to the Bavarian port of Karlsruhe

e Allmeals aboard ship — three meals a day

e Deluxe accommodations for three nights at the SHERATON MUNICH HOTEL**

e Full American breakfast daily (tax and service included)

e Specially arranged Gala Welcome or Farewell Banquet

e Gourmet dinners two evenings at a SELECTION OF THE FINEST RESTAURANTSt

Extras:

Exciting optional tours available throughout your trip

All gratuities for bellboys and doormen

United States departure tax ($3.00) included «

VIP pre-registration in each hotel

All round trip transfers and baggage handling — airport/hotels/ship

Generous 66 pound luggage allowance

Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation

Experienced tour director and hotel hospitality desk, staffed by an on-site team of professionals
*Some tours will originate in Munich and end in Brussels. tt Shipboard gratuity not included.

or similar ; @ Foreign arrival/departure tax(es) not included.
tApproximately $15.00 dinner credit per meal.

 

For further information, contact: W. C. Washburn, Washington and Lee
University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450 PHONE: (703) 463-9111
Ext. 214 0r 318

 

 

 

