 

 

 

 

 

 

2 '

THE UNIVERSITY LIBRARY
UNIVERSITY

WEASSENGTON & LEE
LE NGTON, VA. 24450 G

986

 

MAR 13!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 55, Number 2, March 1980

William C. Washburn, 40 ................cce cece ee eee es Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman .................555 Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ..............cccecee eens Associate Editor
M. Gray Coleman, 79 .............00eeeeeees Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter oo... ccc cece cece ene ee es Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann. ........ccceeeee ee ee eee ee eee e ee ee nen enes Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Washington and Lee in Fiction ..............:::+0 1
ODK-Founders Day Convocation ................66+ 6
Michael Miley Exhibition ....................c0sceeeeeee 8
WL Gazette .......cccccce cece cece eee eee e ene e ene enaeees 10
1980 Dance Marathon ..............cceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 18
W&L’s College Presidents ..............:.ceceeneeee eens 19
Chapter NewS ...........ccecseeeeeeneeeeneeneneen een ennenes 22
Class Notes .....cccccceccceececec eens eens ee ee ee ee en en enon es 23
In Memoriam ............c eee ece cece eee eee eee eee nneeeeees 32

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices. |

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
President

RICHARD A. DENNY, 52, Atlanta, Ga.
Vice President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD BAIN, 49, Spartanburg, S. C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, ’42, Baltimore, Md.
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, 757, Tulsa, Okla.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.

JAMEs F. GALLIVAN, 51, Nashville, Tenn.

G. RUSSELL LADD, 57, Mobile, Ala.
Joun H. McCorMACx Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
PAuL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

el

x

ON THE COVER: John Cole, a senior from Lexing-
ton, Ky., editor of the 1980 Calyx, and cartoonist of no
mean talent, provided this month’s cover illustration—
inspired by Lawrence Watkin’s “W&L novel,” Geese
in the Forum. Any resemblance between these geese
and persons living or dead is purely coincidential, Cole
insists. Watkin’s Geese—and two other novels which
were inspired to some degree by W&L—s the subject
of the lead feature.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

by M. Gray Coleman, ’79

Assistant Director of Publications

We&L In Fiction

The University’s Three Novels Stir More Than a Few Good Memories

 

Fiction based on college life is, of course, a
staple of bookstores and the book-club catalogues.
It seems that every prominent university has in-
spired some sort of fictional treatment. Love Story
says as much about Harvard as it says about the
death of a young woman. Mary McCarthy’s The
Group would have been impossible (or, at least,
unbelievable) without a certain breed of Vassar
girl, unless the author had ever visited Hollins or
Sweet Briar. Even W&L’'s Lexington neighbor
scored a literary hit of sorts on Broadway with the
mostly fictional tale of three Keydets in Brother
Rat.

It is a variety of the bildungsroman tradition—
the “novel of growth,” the chronicle of a hero’s
progression from innocence or ignorance, or both,
to increased maturity, maybe even jadedness. It’s a
mode that has figured centrally in fiction since the
genesis of the modern novel with Tom Jones and
Gulliver's Travels.

In more recent times than those, however,
novelists have often turned to the towers of ivory
for settings in which to describe an important part
of that growth, that spiritual awakening.

And some of them, a generation or more ago,
turned to Washington and Lee. Some of them found
their inspiration between the columns of Washing-
ton Hall.

There is nothing in print today by way of fiction
that centers on W&L and W&L people and the
Corner Grill (now of blessed memory) or the Liquid
Lunch or the town drunks with memorable but
unprintable nicknames, the non-stop cocktail
parties on Providence Hill, the quick stop at Mr.
and Mrs. Duck’s for a six-pack before hitting the
mountain road to Sweet Briar.

But only a generation ago... .

A bittersweet tale about a boy’s journey through
his freshman year . . . The saga of a football star
who learns how quickly—and sometimes tragically
—athletic fame may evaporate . . . An hysterically
funny expose of a small university's faculty life and
politics . .

These are W&L’s three novels, all published in
the 1940s and 50s. Two of them are set here, lock,
stock and barrel; the other has W&L as its back-
drop, and some of the campus and Lexington char-
acters in it are alarmingly recognizable, though the
plot revolves largely around events and major per-
sonalities that (mercifully) didn’t dominate our
tranquil landscape, at least not exactly. They were
pretty conventional when they were published,
and would be hopelessly passé now, in the clinical
age of Harold Robbins and Erica Jong.

 

  

¥o rs
is ;

 

They're all out of print today, a challenge for
those who take an interest in such collectibles. But
they endure in one important respect. Now, as
then, each stirs more than a few good memories in
the W&L-familiar reader.

A Sound of Voices Dying

“Newest” of the trio is Glenn Scott’s A Sound of
Voices Dying. Published in 1954, the year Scott
graduated from W&L, it later became the only one
of “our” novels to reach paperback status (with a
typically beefed-up new title, Farewell, My Young
Lover). Now associate editor of the Norfolk (Va.)
Virginian-Pilot, Scott is at work on an adventure
novel set in Stalingrad in 1942. But 25 years ago,
his vision was less global, and he wrote about a
college he chose to call Philips-Whitehead:

6¢
The college has been accepted by the people
of Concord Bridge [!], Virginia. Many derive their
incomes from the thousand-odd students who re-
side in town during the winter . . . Every so often—
to placate the more puritanical elements in Concord
Bridge, and to raise funds for a new municipal

 

 

 

=

7
-
-

 

 

 

 

 

 

oe

 

 

Lenn ESE

Steve thought, how different from the rest of
them! .. . 99

After enrolling at Jackson, Steve darts to im-
mediate fame, and by the middle of his college
years is widely considered to be the Jackson “star.”
Only one old friend—a sports columnist named
Eddie Abrams, who had followed Steve’s career for
many years—confronts the dream head-on.

ce
What are they cheering for?”

“The university,” Steve said, “Jackson.”

“Most of them have never been near a college
in their lives. And they cheer. Why?”

“You tell me why.”

“Who are they?” Eddie asked. “Insurance men
and housewives, butchers and stenographers.
What kind ofa life have they got? Nothing. Get up,
work, go to bed . . . So they look for a way out.
They go to the movies, they read True Story, they
take an aspirin. They’re the walking dead. There’s
only one way they can come alive, and that’s to live
in somebody else. That’s why we’re hero-happy.
You got to have movie stars, or soldiers, or hot
trumpet players. Or football players . . . . That’s
what they’re paying for. They’re paying for the use
of your body . . . . Tomorrow the baby will be
screaming . . . and they'll have ulcers and colds in
the head, they'll be sick and bored. But today
they're you. Nobody can stop them . . . . [And] on
the day they can’t use you any longer to pull people
through a turnstile, they'll knock you down off that
mountain so fast it'll break your bones. . . . 99

And when it comes, even the decisive injury is
strictly a business affair. In the locker room after
the game in question, and suffering from a badly
separated shoulder, Steve meets the opposing
tackle:

be

I mean I'm sorry about going after you. We
figured you were the guy to get out . . . I was only
doing a job out there. I got a wife and kid, I was in
the Marines three years. I needed the dough, the

one-fifty they offered for getting you out of
there .. . 99

Steve's problems and eventual triumph over
the athletic assembly line proved to be a popular
story. Columbia Pictures acquired the film rights
to The Hero two years after publication and turned
it into a showcase for some of the studio’s young
talent, retitling it Saturday’s Hero. Starring as
Steve was the then-juvenile star John Derek, now
famous primarily as the 52-year-old husband of the
“10” girl, Bo Derek.

Geese in the Forum

At last in our reverse chronology we reach the
best in the bunch, Geese in the Forum. Lawrence
Watkin was a professor of English at Washington
and Lee for 16 years, from 1926 until his departure
for combat duty in World War II. While at W&L
he had written On Borrowed Time, which went on
to become an immensely successful Broadway hit:
later, he joined up with Walt Disney Studios, where
he still holds forth as a screenwriter (e.g., Darby
O'Gill; The Biscuit Eater; the TV series Spin and
Marty). Toward the end of his stint in Lexington,
he finished Geese, the plot of which is pretty much
fictitious in detail, though its general delineation of
intramural college politics was (and remains) right
on target. Though it is not strictly a roman 4 clef,
Watkin drew heavily and recognizably from
friends, colleagues and experiences at W&L. He
was a free spirit, declining to be bowled over by
historical grandeur—something he would have his
readers understand was a prerequisite in that era.
There is a little bit of a lot of Lexington people in
Watkin’s sometimes-thinly veiled caricatures, and
it has been said that in the 1940s, more than a few
folks in these parts were scandalized to find them-
selves portrayed with warts and all.

Though its principal characters are faculty and
trustees, Geese is nevertheless a “novel of growth”
also. Our hero is John Burgess, a young history
instructor, whose uncle and father-in-law happen
to be on the board of trustees of his college, Beau-
regard University [!] in Stillwater, Virginia. With
this sort of perceived political “protection,” John is
able to gain a quick insight into the inner workings
of the place—and the results are pure magic.

The cast of characters is rich in comic figures:
President Burkholder, the silver-tongued orator
who governs the faculty with an iron hand but
whose ambition for his college is ungovernable;
the ancient Delaplaine sisters, daughters of a long-
ago Beauregard president, self-anointed social ar-
biters of the town who live on the Front Campus
under “squatters’ rights” of a sort; Professor Hen-
derson, who introduces himself at a faculty mixer
with the line “Physically I’m from Pennsylvania,
but spiritually I'm from Harvard”; the ridiculous,
endearing faculty wife, Lily Taliaferro, who grabs
many of the book’s best laughs (“I feel so vernal,”
she would tell people by way of announcing that
she was going to have a baby in the autumn).

Towering above them all is Dr. Samuel Worth-
ington, the bear-like head of the history depart-
ment, “the only professor on the faculty who wasn’t
afraid of President Burkholder.”

66

There were times when Dr. Worthington, dis-
gusted at the drivel that went on in faculty meet-
ings, would get up and stalk out. Once. . . the

WeL
In Fiction

 

 

The indomitable Larry Watkin
poses for a picture in the 1936
Calyx.

 

 

 

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ODK-Founders Day Convocation

Korry Describes U.S. Foreign Policy as a ‘Make-Believe Ballroom’ in Major Address

Four prominent Washington and Lee
alumni were tapped into honorary
membership into Omicron Delta Kappa,
the leadership society founded here 66
years ago, during a joint convocation
honoring the birthday of Robert E. Lee
and W&L’s Founders’ Day.

Six law students and 20 undergraduates
were also elected to membership in ODK,
which now has chapters on more than 160
college campuses across the nation.

Included among the honorary ODK
initiates was Edward M. Korry, former
United States ambassador to Ethiopia
(1963-67) and Chile (1967-71). Korry, now
a writer and consultant in the field of
foreign affairs, also delivered the principal
address, speaking on the difficulties of
foreign policy formation in the Middle
East during the last decade.

Other honorary initiates were Stanley
A. Kamen, co-owner of the William Morris
Agency, the world’s largest talent agency
(who was ill at the time of the convocation
and was initiated in absentia); Daniel C.
Lewis Jr., vice president in charge of
administration for the Chesapeake Corp. of
West Point, Va.; and Dr. James H.
Sammons, executive vice president of the
American Medical Association.

Korry, who graduated with a B.A. in
1942. worked for the National
Broadcasting Corp. and as a foreign
correspondent for United Press before
entering the diplomatic corps. From 1954
to 1962 he was European editor and
assistant to the president of the Cowles
Magazine & Broadcasting Co. During his
tenure as ambassador to Ethiopia, he
wrote the Korry Report on African
- Development for President Johnson.
Currently residing in Stonington, Conn..,
he teaches at Connecticut College in
addition to his other activities.

Kamen is a 1949 law graduate of
Washington and Lee, and for many years
has been involved in the university's
Annual Fund drives. As co-owner of
William Morris, he has been involved in
arranging talent packages for a large
number of successful film productions,
including Love Story, The Summer of ‘42,
The Day of the Jackal, and The Sterile
Cuckoo.

6

Lewis was another member of W&L's
undergraduate class of 1942, and
continued his studies at Harvard, where
he received his M.B.A. degree in
commercial science. For a time he was
also a member of the faculty in W&L’s
School of Commerce, Economics and
Politics. Before joining the Chesapeake
Corp., he was secretary and treasurer of
the Lynchburg Foundry Co.

Sammons, a 1947 W&L graduate,
received his M.D. degree from St. Louis
University in 1951, and became active in
Texas medical circles. He has been
president of the East Harris County (Tex.)
Medical Association, chairman of the board
of councilors of the Texas Medical
Association, and chairman of the board of
directors of the American Medical Political
Action Committee. He is a past president
and chairman of the Houston Academy of
Medicine, and in addition to his AMA
position, he is professor of family medicine
at Baylor College of Medicine in Houston.

Students who were tapped into
Omicron Delta Kappa membership were:

Stephen Henry Abraham of Chevy
Chase, Md., senior, president of the W&L
student body this year, a member of the
Student Recruitment Committee and Pi
Sigma Alpha honorary fraternity in
political science;

Stewart Atkinson Jr. of Atlanta, also an
undergraduate senior, co-captain of the
varsity football and track teams, assistant
head dormitory counselor and Georgia
state chairman of the 1980 W&L Mock
Convention;

Richard Grant Bird II, senior German
major from Douglasville, Ga., co-captain of
the varsity track team and captain of the
varsity cross-country team, a 1979 Rotary
Scholarship winner (he will study in Bonn,
West Germany, next fall) and New York
co-chairman of the Mock Convention;

Jay Judah Blumberg, senior politics
major from Boonton, N.J., founder and
two-year chairman of W&L’s Muscular
Dystrophy Dance Marathon and senior
representative on the student Executive
Committee;

Robert L. Brooke of Richmond, Va.,
junior, justice on the Interfraternity
Council, Illinois state chairman for the

Mock Convention, member of the Student
Recruitment and “Contact” speakers’
committees;

Daniel A. Carucci of Pound Ridge,
N.Y., senior, head dormitory counselor
this year, head of “Southern Comfort,” the
informal singing group within the W&L
Glee Club, and a member of the Student
Recruitment Committee;

Kevin B. Dwyer, junior from
Leesburg, Va., midwest regional
coordinator of the 1980 Mock Convention,
1979 IFC rush book editor, vice president
of the W&L College Republicans, and a
member of the Glee Club;

John Joseph Eklund, third-year law
student and 1977 honors graduate of Union
College from Brightwaters, N.Y., lead
articles editor for the W&L Law Review, a
Robert E. Lee Research Scholar and a
member of the Alderson Legal Assistance
program;

Peter D. Eliades, junior from
Hopewell, Va., Wisconsin state chairman

of the 1980 Mock Convention, dormitory

counselor, and member of the Student
Recruitment and University Admissions
Committees;

John A. Fraser III, third-year law
student and 1977 graduate with high
honors of Ft. Lewis College, from
Bethesda, Md., the upperclass law
representative to the student Executive
Committee and a John Marshall Fellow;

Douglas L. Gaker, junior from .
Hamilton, Ohio, member of the varsity
tennis team since his freshman year,
currently president of Delta Tau Delta
social fraternity;

Covert James Geary of New Orleans,
senior, secretary this year of the student
body and former business manager of the
Ring-tum Phi, as well as treasurer of Pi
Kappa Phi social fraternity for two years;

William R. Goodell of Bronxville,
N.Y., third-year law student who
graduated in 1977 with high honors from
Williams College, special projects editor
for the Law Review and member of the
Student Activities Board;

David Harold Harpole Jr., senior from
Roanoke, co-chairman of the Student
Activities Board, a junior-year initiate into
Phi Beta Kappa, vice president of Alpha

 

 

 

 

Edward M. Korry, ’42.

oer

we

Dr. James H. Sammons, ’47.

 

Daniel C. Lewis Jr., ’42.

Epsilon Delta pre-medical society, and
Robert E. Lee Research Scholar in
chemistry;

Thomas Barnes Henson, third-year law
student and 1977 graduate with high
honors of Vanderbilt University from
Ethridge, Tenn., first in his law class
academically and editor-in-chief of the Law
Review;

Kevin F. McGowan of Cheverly, Md.,
senior, business manager of the Ring-tum

 
    

Phi and secretary of the W&L Publications
Board, two-year varsity football player and
dormitory counselor;

Theodore Brelsford Martin Jr., senior
from Middletown, Ohio, co-captain of this
year s water polo team, senior class vice
president and a dormitory counselor, as
well as Ohio chairman of the 1980 Mock
Convention;

Michael Joseph Mrlik of Charleston,
S.C., senior, a justice on the
Interfraternity Council and member of the
varsity football, lacrosse and track teams;

Lonnie D. Nunley III, junior majoring
in English and politics from Bristol, Va.,
member of the varsity football and track
teams and a dormitory counselor;

Samuel L. Perkins, senior from Ann
Arbor, Mich., who is an honors candidate
in economics for 1980, a member of
W&Lis debate team and Parliamentary
Union, and a founding member and
president for two years of W&L’s chapter
of Chi Psi social fraternity;

Kevin J. Ross, third-year law student
and 1977 honors graduate of Bates
College, from Haverhill, Mass., who is
treasurer of the Student Bar Association,
former business manager of the W&L Law
News, and treasurer and general manager
of the W&L Law School Book Exchange;

Sidney S. Simmons II of Jacksonville,
Fla., senior who is co-chairman of the 1980
Mock Convention, and a member of
W&L’s commerce honorary fraternity;

Randolph P. Smith, senior from
Washington, D.C., who is currently
editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum Phi and was
news editor of the paper for a year and a
half previously;

Charles V. Terry of Portsmouth, Va.,
senior who is vice president of the W&L
Interfraternity Council and co-chairman of
the Student Recruitment and Student
Control Committees;

Daniel Edward Westbrook, third-year
law student and a 1977 honors graduate of
Washington and Lee’s commerce school,
from Richmond, Ind., who was a
dormitory counselor and varsity baseball
player as an undergraduate, and is now the
head Burks Scholar (third-year students
chosen to be instructors in first-year
courses in Legal Methods and Moot

Court);

Robert Harold Willis Jr. of St.
Petersburg, Fla., who has served on the
student Executive Committee for two
years and was the only undergraduate
junior to be included this year in “Who’s
Who Among Students in American
Universities.”

In his no-holds-barred critique of
current American foreign policy,
particularly with respect to Iran and
Afghanistan, Korry equated the
Administration’s approach with the ritual
dance of the Rhea ostrich, studied by
Charles Darwin in Chile. The Rheas,
Korry said, decide which of the flock will
rule the roost by locking necks and
“whirling ‘round and ’round and ’round.
They don’t advance, and they don’t retreat
very much. They just whirl and whirl until
one gets dizzy and disengages.”

He described the Carter-Vance view as
a “make-believe ballroom,” built on the
straws of their “yearnings for a Utopian
universe’ and relying almost solely on
Christian faith—“a vision of sugar and
spice and everything beguiling, uplifting,
decent”—but unable in the real world
actually to endure very long at all.

Attacking the passivity of the U.S. in
the face of Communist encroachments in
the Middle East, Korry warned that “if the
U.S. renounces leadership, others will act,
and compel us to react. Indifference and
aloofness are policies. The Ayatollah
Khomeni, the Palestinians, and ultimately
the Soviet Army, are emboldened when
the United States parades its
unconcern. .. .

“Western Europe and Japan,” he said,
“have learned to distrust American ‘crisis
management. They didn’t share President
Carter's view of détente, and they don’t
share his new belief that the Soviet Union
has suddenly veered into an aggressive,
expansionist phase. They detest what the
Russians have done in Afghanistan, but
they are not as surprised as Washington.

“If the United States does not now
apply its full weight, election year or not—
if it does not risk, does not expend
whatever may be necessary . . .—the
Kremlin will certainly add to its
ascendancy.”

 

 

Michael Miley, who produced the first
color photographic prints on paper in
America—but who is best remembered as
“General Lee’s photographer’ —was the
subject of the University’s fifth midwinter
exhibition of important W&L-connected
art.

More than 180 Miley photographs, all
original prints from his studio, were
shown. Among them, of course, was a
series of prints Miley made of Robert E.
Lee when Lee was president of
Washington College. Although Miley took
photos of many other historically important
19th-century figures, and despite his
pioneering work in color photography, it
was the Lee pictures that brought him
fame and success.

In the first years of the 20th century,
Miley perfected a process of printing color
photographs by superimposing separate
single-color carbon images in each of the
primary colors. He and his son, Henry,
patented the technique in 1902 and in
1905 were awarded a Medal of Merit by
the Franklin Institute. But Miley looked
on his own process as too time-consuming
and costly for commercial development,
and he made no effort to have it brought
into general use.

Most of the color prints in the duPont
Gallery exhibition were still lifes or

Lee on Traveller, 1866, gift of the family of
Judge Richard Edwards.

Michael Miley

 

Michael
Miley
Exhibition

 

 

Sally Mann.

, c. 1880, self-portrait, lent by

photographic reproductions of paintings,
because inanimate objects were easiest to
control through the lengthy picture-taking
process.

In addition to his Lee photographs and
his color work, Miley pictures in the
exhibition included portrait photos both of
local people and of dignitaries such as
Jefferson Davis and John C. Breckenridge
who visited Lexington—as well as a large
number of landscapes, which Miley took
primarily because unusual cloud and
sunlight effects fascinated him.

The exhibition—“Michael Miley:
American Photographer and Pioneer in
Color’—was organized by Mary Elizabeth
Warren, a professional photographic
archivist and co-author of the book The
Train’s Been Done and Gone, a lavishly
illustrated history of Annapolis. Dr.
Pamela Hemenway Simpson, associate
professor of art history, directed and
supervised the exhibition, as she has each
of W&L’s January exhibitions since the
series was begun in 1976.

W&L published a catalogue of the
exhibition, containing a critical essay by
Warren and more than 50 illustrations,
with Miley’s turn-of-the-century
photograph “Peaches” reproduced in full
color on the cover. The 48-page catalogue
was also the fifth in the W&L series.

 

R. E. Lee, 1869, full-length profile, lent by
Miss Margaret Davis.

CO ___________________

8

Jefferson Davis (called), c. 1869-70, lent by
Frances Isabel Mackey Huffman.

George Washington Custis Lee, 1879, Rockbridge
Historical Society.

 

Gen. John C. Breckenridge, c. 1869-71, lent by
William C. Davis.

 

Copies of the Miley exhibition cata-
logue are available at $2 postpaid from
the W&L Bookstore, Lexington, Va.,
24450.

 

.

 

Unidentified, c. 1888-92, lent by
Mrs. E. Alban Watson

 

Mary Preston Graham, a carbon print, Rockbridge
Historical Society Collection.

 

A version of the Miley exhibition
smaller than the one in duPont Gallery
will be on view through the month of
March in the lobby of Colonial Ameri- | B. oa
can Bank’s new headquarters building 7 :

in Roanoke, Va. Mrs. Royster Lyle Sr.), lent by
Miss Mary Monroe Penick.

eS

é

 

 

 

Le Gazette

A. B. Claytor’s Unitrust Will Eventually Endow Honor Scholarships at W&L

A Rockbridge County man, A. B.
Claytor, has established a Unitrust valued
at more than a quarter-million dollars on
behalf of the University in memory of his
wife and father.

The Unitrust was created through a gift
of a 310-acre farm in Rockbridge County
near Buffalo Forge, at the juncture of the
Maury River and Buffalo Creek.

A Unitrust is an arrangement by which
a gift is made irrevocably to a qualified
charity with the stipulation that an agreed-
upon lifetime income will be returned
annually to the donor, or to the donor and
a beneficiary.

The donor receives an immediate
income-tax deduction for a portion of the
value of the gift, and pays no capital-gains
tax on gift assets which have increased in
value. Estate taxes are also saved when the
assets become the property of the charity
upon the death of the donor or beneficiary.

The farm which was used to establish
the Claytor Unitrust was acquired in 1948
by Mr. Claytor’s mother and father,
Henreitta Johnson Claytor of Lexington
and the late Solon L. Claytor, together
with Mr. Claytor himself and his wife, the
late Christine Williams Claytor.

Beneficiaries of the Unitrust are Mr.
Claytor and his mother.

The Claytor Unitrust will ultimately
establish an Honor Scholarship
endowment at Washington and Lee named
jointly for Mr. Claytor’s wife, who died in
1974, and father, who died in 1961.

Christine Claytor was executive
director of the Richmond Young Women’s
Christian Association (YWCA) for 10 years
until her death. She had previously been
an official with the YWCAs in Charlotte,
Greensboro, and Winston-Salem, N.C.,
and Roanoke, Va.

Mr. Claytor’s father, Solon Claytor,
was a teacher and school principal in
western Virginia for 42 years.

The W&L Unitrust achieves his
intentions ideally, Mr. Claytor said.

“We have helped Washington and
Lee—and we will be fairly comfortable
financially through the Unitrust too,” he
said.

When the Honor Scholarships named
for Mrs. Christine Claytor and Solon L.

10

 

Unitrust creator A. B. C laytor with his mother,
Henrietta J. Claytor.

Claytor are awarded, special preference
will be given to descendants of the
grandparents of A. B. and Christine
Claytor.

The Christine and Solon Claytor
Scholarships will not be further restricted,
however, beyond Washington and Lee’s
customary Honor Scholarship criteria of
outstanding personal promise and
academic achievement.

“Students deserve financial aid on the
basis of being people,” A. B. Claytor says,
“not on the basis of membership in a
category.”

EE

Cadmus scholarship created;
Atlantic Richfield gives $15,000

An annual-grant scholarship honoring
the late Judge Earle A. Cadmus of
Portsmouth, who died in 1978 after a
career of half a century as a lawyer, state
legislator, and judge, has been created by
his widow, Elsie Hinman Cadmus.

Judge Cadmus was a 1926 law graduate
of W&L. The $1,000-a-year scholarship in
his honor will be awarded either to
undergraduates or to law students who
attended high schools in Portsmouth or
Chesapeake, Va.

Ten of the scholarships will be
awarded, one each year, and recipients
will be selected on the bases of financial
need and academic merit, or on the basis
of academic distinction alone.

Atlantic Richfield Foundation of Los
Angeles has made a $15,000 gift to
Washington and Lee to support $3-
million conversion of the old McCormick
Library to become the new home of the
School of Commerce, Economics, and
Politics, now in its final stages.

President Huntley called the
foundation’s gift “an excellent example of
the traditional ties between the free-
enterprise system and the independent
educational sector, a relationship which
has always—literally always—benefited
both, which continues to benefit both, and
which will benefit both throughout the
future.”

REARS AA YW SS EG AE IE IT LE RT A REA

 

Scholarship endowment
honors “Captain Dick’

An honor scholarship endowment in
memory of the late Richard A. (“Captain
Dick’) Smith, longtime W&L athletic
director, has been created through a
$25,000 gift from his son.

Richard W. Smith, a 1941 graduate of
the University and a prominent lawyer in
Staunton, established the scholarship
program to recognize outstanding student
leadership— including character,
competitive spirit, scholarship and athletic
achievement.

“Captain Dick,” a member of the
Virginia Sports Hall of Fame, was director
of intercollegiate athletics for 23 years,
baseball coach for 30 years, and basketball
coach for five.

A member of the class of 1913, he was
an outstanding athlete himself throughout
his undergraduate years—in spite of a
chronic shoulder separation which ended
his chance to play major league baseball.
“Captain Dick” died August 15, 1975, at
the age of 86, leaving a legacy of having
helped mold the character of hundreds of
W&L men. Washington and Lee’s baseball
field is named Smith Field in his honor.

 

This portrait of “Captain Dick” by Peter
Stevens hangs in Warner Center.

Income from the new scholarship
endowment will be used to award “Captain
Dick” Smith Honor Scholarships to
students with financial need who have
compiled academic and extracurricular
records of unusual distinction.

The University said its hope is that
friends of “Captain Dick,” including
alumni he influenced, will choose to honor
his memory by helping increase the size of
the special scholarship endowment. The
goal is eventually to bring the endowment
to at least $50,000.

When “Captain Dick” died, the sports
editor of the Richmond Times-Dispatch
recalled him as a “Washington and Lee
institution and a Lexington landmark . . . a
delightful companion.” President Huntley
said: “ ‘Captain Dick’ Smith has been an
institution at Washington and Lee. It is
from persons like him that this school has
derived its strength and its character over
the centuries. I shall miss him sorely, as
will his many friends, but he will never be
forgotten at W&L.”

The University said it is especially
fitting that “Captain Dick” should be
memorialized by an honor scholarship
program. “Captain Dick” himself once
recalled that he almost went to another
college because tuition at Washington and
Lee when he arrived in 1909 was $85, but
his scholarship was for only $50.

A friend talked him into staying “for
another day” before he left Lexington.
“Well, they fixed me up with another $50
scholarship,” he reminisced. “They
werent supposed to give but one, but I
got two. Then I had $15 change, and that
went for six months’ rent.”

————————————
Print journalism moves
into electronic age

The Newport News (Va.) Daily Press
and Times-Herald donated a complete
computerized newspaper type-production
system—including two computers, 16
video display terminals (VDTs) on which
reporters write articles, and five photo-
typesetting machines—to the University’s
journalism department this winter.

The equipment is valued at $294,000.

The Newport News newspapers have
replaced the equipment with a new, even
more advanced type production system.

Washington and Lee’s is the smallest
accredited journalism education program
in the nation—yet thanks to the Newport
News gift “now has the most powerful and
extensive computerized copy-processing
system of any,’ according to R. H.
MacDonald, department head.

He said the equipment brings
Washington and Lee’s print journalism
program “into the latter part of the 20th
century—at last.” Prior to the Newport
News gift, W&L had no computerized
typesetting equipment for student use at
all.

Increasingly, on daily and weekly
newspapers alike, articles are written
directly on VDTs, which resemble
television screens with elaborate
typewriter-like keyboards. The articles are
then stored electronically in a computer.

From the computer, an editor can
summon the articles onto his VDT screen,
edit them, send them to be rewritten, add

 

 

computer codes for line width, type size
and other specifications, and transmit
them to the photo-typesetting machine
that sets them into columns of
photographically produced type.

The new system at W&L produces
type at the rate of about 150 lines a
minute. The old-fashioned molten lead, or
“hot type,” method of typesetting,
symbolized by the Linotype machine,
which is now virtually obsolete in
newspaper production, could produce
about seven lines a minute.

 

Should college libraries
support scholarly research?

The function of the undergraduate
college library and the kinds of conflicting
pressures it must face were the focus of a
two-day conference at Washington and
Lee in February that involved more than
70 librarians, professors and administrators
from 15 private liberal-arts colleges in
Virginia.

The conference, “Library Resources for
College Scholars,” was sponsored by the
University Library as the first in a series of
events leading to the formal dedication of
the new $9-million building in May.

Maurice D. Leach Jr., head librarian,
defined the general topic of the conference
as an examination of the question “what
library resources—if any—are needed to
support research on a small, private,
liberal-arts campus.”

And in a summary review, Dr. William

a

 

Journalism professor Hampden H. Smith (right) instructs students in the use of new video-display
equipment; at left is the computer that runs the entire system.

11

Le cazette

 

   

Taking part in the panel discussion during the WUL Library conference were senior politics major Craig

 

 

Cornett, assistant politics professor John Handelman, Roanoke college dean C. Freeman Sleeper, and,
at podium, Thomas Nye, biology department head and Library Advisory Committee chairman.

J. Watt, dean of the College, described
the “conflicts” the conference had
identified: “Students versus faculty; books
versus machines; shared resources versus
special collections; balance versus
additional support for new programs; a
directed development of collections versus
meeting faculty needs or demands.

“But unfortunately,” Dean Watt said,
“there seems to be no absolute right and
no absolute wrong. The library is central
to the educational process at any college or
university; and because the strength of our
programs will determine whether our
institutions survive, these are critically
important questions for us to consider.

“Solutions will come out of groups such
as this—involving faculty, students,
administrators and librarians.”

Throughout the series of conference
sessions, lectures, panels and small-group
discussions, the conference addressed
issues that included:

—Whether library resources should be
centered solely on the curriculum or
whether individuals’ research
requirements should also be met;

—Means beyond traditional collections
that might be employed to support
research;

—Which techniques for collection
development are the most effective;

—Whether a small college should even
attempt to promote research.

In his keynote address, “Collection
Development in Private Colleges, °
William E. Hannaford suggested basic
changes that are needed in library
collection-development. Hannaford,

12

EEE Ee

acquisitions librarian at Middlebury
College, based his remarks on a survey of
10 private colleges in New England which
he recently completed.

The W&L library plans to publish the
proceedings of the conference later this
year. Copies will be available upon
request.

i  ——
Buildings and Grounds people
are energy-saving magicians

We should all be lucky enough to have
W&L’s buildings and grounds people in
charge of the way we use energy in our
homes.

Last year, the University’s bill for
natural gas, the source of heat and air-
conditioning on the whole campus, was
actually lower than it’s been in many
years—despite addition of Lewis Hall
(121,000 square feet) and the new
undergraduate library (130,000 square
feet) to the physical plant.

We hear you cry: Unbelievable!
Impossible!

But true.

For more than 15 years, the University
sensed that energy was on its way to
becoming a problem in terms of both cost
and supply. So for more than 15 years, the
University has been doing plenty to
prepare for the crunch it knew was
coming.

Some of it has been your usual program
of conservation—adding insulation,
reducing unnecessary lighting, adding

timers to heating and air-conditioning
systems, lowering the temperature of hot
water.

But much of it has been the unique
Washington and Lee way of doing things.

We abandoned fuel oil a decade ago, in
favor of cheaper and cleaner natural gas.
(Knowing that non-residential customers
are the first to suffer cutbacks when a
particular energy source is cut back,
however, we also added a back-up
capability to operate with coal.)

When we discover that new equipment
(or old, for that matter) wastes energy, or
in some other way doesn’t provide us with
the efficiency we like, we don’t chuck it
and buy something more expensive. We
modify it—rebuild it if we have to. We
know precisely what we need better than
some engineer in Schenectady, so we take
his design and his company’s product and
reassemble it in our own image.

Gradually, as a component of the
campus-construction portion of the
decade-long Development Program, we
have systematically consolidated our
heating and cooling systems as we ve
installed new utility service systems. No
more furnaces scattered here and there. It
began during the 1965-66 academic year
when old Doremus was brought into the
central system, eliminating separate oil
burners there (and the whole set of
maintenance and operating expenses it
took to maintain them). That saved several
thousands of dollars.

A couple of years ago, the University
even thought about hiring a professional
consulting firm to find new ways to
economize on energy costs.

But after hearing proposals, W&L
knew it could do better than any of them.
It already was.

And a central component of the
program became a little electronic gem
called a JC-80 that starts temperature-
control equipment automatically by
monitoring outside temperatures. It saves
W&L $15,00 a year in Lewis Hall alone,
and $18,000 in the library.

The JC-80 is being modified now to
control electricity consumption too, and
soon Lee Chapel and Evans Dining Hall
will be brought under its control. When
that happens, W&L will save yet another
$35,000 a year.

It is a tribute to the uncanny talent of
the buildings and grounds staff and to the
two superintendents in the past couple of
decades, James A. Arthur (since 1972) and
his predecessor, D. E. (Pat) Brady Jr.,

who is now plant projects manager. It is
also testimony to W&L’s ability to bring
aboard just about the most highly qualified
and ingenious people there are not only in
the faculty and student body but across the
support-services spectrum.
—M.G.C./R.S.K.

 

W&«L’s art connections
know no boundaries

If you ever wondered whether there’s
any trace of narrow-minded provincialism
at General Lee’s College, you may put
your mind at ease.

Consider that a New England-born
professor, whose name is 100-percent
French, is taking a Swiss representative of
Robert E. Lee on a tour of Dixie.

The teacher is Gérard Maurice Doyon.
The image of Lee is an 1869 painting by
Switzerland's foremost portrait artist,
Frank Buchser.

Doyon has developed a slide-lecture on
Buchser’s travels in Virginia in 1869 and
1870, which he has presented in six
Virginia cities and in Atlanta at a meeting
of the Southeast College Art Conference
last October, and in New Orleans at the
annual meeting of the College Art
Association in February.

And when the director of the Swiss
National Museum, where the Buchser
original now hangs, and the director of the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts both heard
Doyon’s lecture at the New Orleans
meeting, it led to plans for a Lee
homecoming of a sort—an agreement
under which the Swiss museum will place
the portrait on loan to the Richmond
museum next year.

Acknowledged as Buchser’s
masterpiece, the Lee portrait was painted
in the President’s House on the campus of
Washington College in October 1869. Lee
was president of the institution from 1865
until his death in 1870, exactly 12 months
after Buchser completed the portrait.

Doyon was born in New Hampshire
and studied in Paris at Ecole des Beaux
Arts as well as in the United States. He
received his Ph.D. in art history from
Boston University, and joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1968.

But that non-Southern background tells
only part of the story. To the ways of
thinking of some, perhaps he is hopelessly
a Northerner. “My family has lived in the
south,” Doyon says, “for a thousand

 

Buchser’s portrait of Lee

years—in the south of France.”

And a thousand years in any Southland,
the vigilant guardians of tradition at
Washington and Lee have ruled, is a
sufficient credential for anyone.

 

For the record...

L] E. Stewart Epley, '49, former chief
financial analyst for a billion-dollar
building program on behalf of state
colleges and other publicly supported

 

Nurse Fannie Allen

Nurse Fannie Allen, a W&L in-
stitution and revered campus character
for a generation of students, died in
January at the age of 87. Miss Allen
came to W&L just after the close of
World War II, as assistant to the Uni-
versity Physician, and stayed in that
capacity until her retirement in 1959.
A gruff guardian of student health, she
remained a favorite figure among the
undergraduates throughout her ten-
ure. Reminiscing about the indomit-
able nurse, Rupert N. Latture com-
mented: “I have the fondest memories
of her interest in the students; her
curiosity really knew no bounds. In
particular, she enjoyed questioning
the boys who came to the infirmary on
Monday mornings about what activi-
ties could possibly put them in such
poor condition. . .”

 

 

 

institutions in New York state and former
W&L Development Staff Associate,
became treasurer of the University Jan. 1.

He succeeded James W. Whitehead,
who continues as Secretary of the Board of
Trustees and curator of University art
collections—including the
Washington/Custis/Lee family portraits,
the Reeves Collection of Chinese export
porcelain, and the paintings of Louise
Herreshoff—with substantially expanded
duties in University development as well.

[] Sarah K. Wiant, head law librarian,
is the new president-elect of the Virginia
Special Libraries Association, and will
become president July 1. She is also the
delegate of the national Special Libraries
Association to the American Association of
Law Libraries and chairman of the
continuing-education committee of the
latter organization. She has been a
member of the W&L law library
professional staff since 1972 and head
librarian since 1978.

 

 

Again, law leads
freshman career choices

Once again this year, law is by far the
leading career choice among W&L
freshmen according to the results of an
independent survey taken last fall among
entering students at W&L and 361 other
colleges and universities throughout the
nation.

Exactly a quarter of W&L’s freshmen
said they intend to become lawyers. That
compares with just 4.2 percent for all
freshmen at all the colleges which took
part in the study, and 5.0 percent for all
male freshmen.

The second most frequently named
career choice among W&L freshmen was
business (“executive, owner or
proprietor ), at 19.1 percent—compared
with 12.6 percent among all freshmen,
males and females, and 16.1 percent
among male freshmen.

And 13.6 percent of Washington and
Lee’s freshmen said they plan to become
physicians—contrasted to 3.4 percent
among their male and female counterparts,
and 4.0 percent among males only.

The survey at all 362 colleges and
universities was directed by UCLA on
behalf of the American Council on
Education.

Law, business and medicine have been
the leading career choices at Washington

13

de Gazette

and Lee for the past decade or more,
according to the annual surveys, and in
approximately the same proportions in
previous years as this year.

No other single career choice was
named by even as many as a twelfth of
Washington and Lee’s freshmen.
Journalism, at 6.8 percent, was the next
most popular career.

As usual, the vast majority—87.5
percent—said W&L’s “good academic
reputation” was a “very important” reason
in choosing to enroll. (Only 49.1 percent of
all freshmen in the survey checked that
reason. For male freshmen in private
undergraduate colleges, the statistic was
63.0 percent.)

And also as they usually do, W&L’'s
freshmen this year characterized
themselves as political conservatives to a
much greater extent than their peers. At
W&L, 38.4 chose that label, more than
double the nationwide percentage, 16.6
percent, among all freshmen.

 

 

In the arts

[] More than a dozen contemporary
paintings owned by Frances and Sydney
Lewis, including a silkscreen portrait by
Andy Warhol of Golda Meir, the late
prime minister of Israel, were shown in
duPont Gallery in February.

The Lewises, of course, are strangers
neither to the arts nor to Washington and
Lee. They are the philanthropists whose
$9-million gift in 1972 enabled
construction of the new law building,
known not by coincidence as Lewis Hall,
and establishment of the Frances Lewis
Law Center endowment. Sydney Lewis,
’40, is a member of the W&L board and of
the board of the Hirshhorn Museum in
Washington, and Frances Lewis is a
member of the board of the Whitney
Museum in New York.

They have been recognized repeatedly
for their support of the arts. In 1978, when
they received the Thomas Jefferson Award
for Public Service in Virginia, Gov. John
Dalton commented that their interest in
modern art traces back to a time “when it
was held up to public ridicule,” and
described them as a couple “not content to
wait” for an idea’s time to arrive by itself.

In her response, Frances Lewis said
their “abundance of good fortune and plain
good luck” had given them “a succession of
opportunities we have been able to turn to
our advantage—which we hope is not

14

entirely for ourselves.”

(] The Glass Menagerie, Tennessee
Williams’ haunting memory play, was
presented in February by the now-yclept
University Theatre, formerly the
Troubadors. Menagerie, Williams’ first big
Broadway success, was directed at W&L
by Leonel L. Kahn, associate drama
professor and drama head at W&L for 15
years, who said the dramatic value of the
play is substantially in “the beauty of its
language—so impeccable, so alive.”

(] The Clarion Wind Quintet, artists-
in-residence at the North Carolina School
for the Arts in Winston-Salem, performed
in Lee Chapel under the sponsorship of
the W&L Concert Guild and conducted a
workshop-critique of W&L students’
compositions in February.

 

Mr. Justice Powell

S00 A a

 

Powell reports Supreme Court
is plugged into the Computer

Charley McDowell, ’48, wrote the
following piece about fellow alumnus,
Associate Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., 29,
°31L, a trustee emeritus of Washington and
Lee. It is reprinted here by permission
from the Richmond Times-Dispatch, Jan.
31, 1980.

WASHINGTON—The scene is a
remarkably small room, perhaps once a
large closet, under the Senate chamber.
Here three members of an appropriations
subcommittee of the Senate are holding a
hearing.

Comes now Associate Justice Lewis F.
Powell Jr. to present the Supreme Court's
budget request for fiscal year 1981.

Did you realize the Supreme Court
literally has to ask Congress for money?
Makes sense, I suppose; I just hadn't
thought about it.

Powell does not come hat in hand. He
has left it in a passage-way with his
overcoat and scarf. His smooth face is pink
with cold after his walk across the plaza.

He is smiling his businesslike smile.

The justice’s reception is informal.
Catching sight of him first, Sen. Lowell
Weicker of Connecticut says, “Hi, Lewis.”

Everybody grins and shakes hands.
Then Powell takes a seat across a table

from the senators, clears his throat, and

addresses Sen. Ernest Hollings of South
Carolina as “Mr. Chairman.”

The Supreme Court will need
$12,666,000, Powell says. That is a net
reduction of $250,000 from the year
before. It was a big year because the
Supreme Court had to fix its roof.

From chief justice to junior janitor, the
Supreme Court has just 325 employees.
Powell says no additional employees or
salary raises beyond the going scale are
planned.

Sen. Dennis DeConcini of Arizona
says, “I am always impressed by the fine
management of the Supreme Court.”

Chairman Hollings says economy is all
very well, but do the justices have enough
secretarial help? Hollings recalls that the
court seemed overloaded with work a
couple of years ago, but resisted having
more secretaries. He wonders if the
justices’ young law clerks still have to do a
lot of the typing?

Powell says nobody is doing much
typing these days in eight of the nine
justices’ offices. All but Justice Byron R.
White’s staff are using video display
terminals. The Supreme Court has
plugged into a computer.

Sitting at keyboards with glowing little
screens that display what they write, the
clerks are drafting and revising
memorandums and opinions more
efficiently than before, Powell says. The
clerks wouldn’t trade their “word
processing equipment” for batteries of
typewriters and secretaries.

The computerization of the Supreme
Court sinks in slowly on senators who
associate the institution with quill pens.

As a newspaperman, I understand at
least the drift of things. Newspapers are
moving to this same new technology.
Young journalists adapt to it
enthusiastically. Some of us older ones are
spooky and pessimistic.

The Supreme Court, anyhow, is
forging ahead into the modern world.
Powell tells the committee that the next
step is to replace the old hot-lead
Linotypes and printing press in the
Supreme Court basement with a
marvelous new computerized process.

Powell confesses that there have been
problems. The new technology for
publishing the court’s opinions has
developed more slowly and expensively
than expected. (Ah, yes.) But the project is
adequately funded for the present, and the
court hopes to have a system without bugs
in it soon.

When the justice leaves the hearing, I
follow him into the passageway and ask a
few questions about the “word processing
equipment’ in his office.

He has five video display terminals for
four clerks and two secretaries. This leaves
one to use a typewriter or quill pen if he
or she is inclined. But everyone prefers
the terminals.

Powell brought the first computerized
equipment into the Supreme Court two
years ago. The other justices watched for a
year. Then all but White converted.

The terminals are working beautifully.
They are ideal for the many revisions that
opinions undergo, and they provide neat
printouts. Ultimately, however, the
opinions are turned over to the old
technology for publications.

Powell says: “We are still using the
same kind of old equipment that we had at
W&L when I was managing editor of the
Ring-tum Phi.” He was an undergraduate
at Washington and Lee University in the
late 1920s and received his law degree
there in 1931.)

He says he looks forward to the new
composing and printing process.

I say my newspaper switched to it
some years ago and there ensued a period
of painful adjustment that still gives me
nightmares.

Justice Powell says he hopes for the
best.

God save this honorable court.

 

 

News of the student body

[] The W&L Glee Club embarks on its
first transatlantic tour during the
University’s spring vacation in April. The
highlight of the group’s visit to England

will be a midday concert in Westminster
Abbey,

Money to pay for the trip is being
raised by the students in a variety of ways,
ranging from singing appearances at The
Greenbrier to a raffle and sales of its new
phonograph album Lee Chapel Encores.

The Glee Club will present a large
number of concerts in London, many of
them in other notable cathedrals in
addition to Westminster. Most of the club
members will stay in private homes.

Sightseeing jaunts will include trips to
Salisbury, Stonehenge, Oxford, and
Shakespeare’s native Stratford.

The W&L singers’ Westminster Abbey
performance will be preceded by a private
tour of the restricted areas of the ancient
cathedral, conducted by the Dean of the
Abbey—a singular honor, extended to just
one visiting group a week.

[] W&L journalism students are

 

A. Powell honored

E. ANGUS POWELL, '36, a 16-year
member of the board of The Collegiate
Schools of Richmond, Va., was honor-
ed after his death on May 19, 1979,
with an issue of the Collegiate Spark
dedicated entirely to his memory.

A resolution by the Collegiate
Board of Trustees states that “Angus
Powell was a man of diverse interests
to which he enthusiastically dedicated
his exceptional talents and influence
. . . Few of us today have full knowl-
edge of the benefits which we now
enjoy that flow directly from his labors
on behalf of Collegiate.”

Among the dozens of tributes
printed in the magazine about Powell
was a statement by Dr. John Newton
Thomas, a 1924 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee and Rector Emeritus of
the W&L Board of Trustees: “I think
of Angus as a businessman who
brought mature wisdom to the meet-
ings of the Collegiate Board; as a board
member who went far beyond the line
of duty in services and contributions;
as a sincere Christian who served the
church and who believed in Collegi-
ate’s ideal of melding the Christian
faith and academic excellence.”

Powell, chairman of the Richmond
Federal Reserve Bank’s board of di-
rectors until his death, was also associ-
ated with Lea Industries Inc., an area
furniture and box manufacturing com-
pany, and with a land development
project in Chesterfield County.

 

 

 

producing a weekly news program on
public television for viewers in far
southwestern Virginia, the “mountain
empire,’ who have no local daily
newspaper or television news coverage
and little radio coverage.

Southwest Chronicle presents a half-
hour summary of state news, news of the
southwest region, sports, agriculture and
business reports, and newsmaker features.

Joseph B. Dashiell, a senior journalism
major, is producer and anchorman for the
program. Half-a-dozen other journalism
students work directly on Southwest
Chronicle as well, and there are 14 writers
and two senior reporters.

According to R. H. MacDonald, the
head of W&L’s journalism program and
faculty supervisor of Southwest Chronicle,
few daily newspapers circulate at all in far
southwest Virginia, although it
encompasses 10 counties and a quarter-
million people—and those daily papers are
principally concerned with coverage of
their “home” areas in Tennessee, West
Virginia and Kentucky.

The program is prepared in W&L’s
own television studio, with a preliminary
videotaping session each Thursday
afternoon. The content is updated on
Friday and a final videotape is made that
afternoon in the studio of the PBS station
in Roanoke for broadcast that evening.

[] Lester J. Gillen, a senior from Glen
Cove, N.Y., has been named cadet corps
commander in the W&L Reserve Officer
Training Corps program.

Gillen, an economics and German
major and ROTC scholarship winner, is
responsible for the entire student program
including field training, according to Lt.
Col. Thomas B. Vaughn, head of the
military science department. _

Other ROTC students named to
positions in the cadet chain of command
are Mark F. Givevan, a biology major from
Pasadena, Md., deputy corps commander;
Alexander J. Montgomery III, an
American history major from Rockville,
Md., staff officer in charge of operations,
training and security; Richard J. Allen Jr.,
a drama major from Orlando, Fla.,
adjutant in charge of administrative affairs
and morale; and Martin L. Piccoli II, a
major in physics and engineering from
Somerset, N.J., logistician.

L] George Eric Plum, a chemistry and
mathematics major from Virginia Beach,
has been named recipient of W&L’s
annual Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore Award,
presented to the sophomore who has

15

LE Gazette

achieved the highest cumulative academic
average through the end of the fall term of
his second year.

(_] Two teams of legal debaters from
the School of Law fared well in
intercollegiate competition in February. In
national moot court competition in New
York City, the W&L team of William J.
Milani, Buckner P. Wellford and Kerry M.
Wilson emerged as one of the eight best in
the nation—reaching the quarterfinals and
defeating teams from Vanderbilt and the
University of Washington before losing to
a team from Boston University. In all, 250
teams from 160 law schools had
participated in that competition. And in
the annual William & Mary Moot Court
Competition, another W&L team,
composed of Carrie Gilette Otey, W.
Jeffrey Edwards and James H. Neale,
came in second to a team from Virginia
(and ahead of teams from Duke, Wake
Forest, Richmond and host W&M), won
the best brief award, and took the best
oralist trophy (Ms. Otey).

See SS
Recent speakers

Visitors to campus in recent weeks
have included:

[] Charles Corddry, defense and
foreign-policy reporter for the Baltimore
Sun and panelist on the PBS series
“Washington Week in Review, for a week
in residence under the sponsorship of the
Woodrow Wilson Foundation Visiting
Fellows program;

[] NBC News diplomatic
correspondent Richard Valeriani, CBS
News Moscow bureau chief Robert Evans,
and former Army Chief of Staff William

~_ |

Former U.S. Ambassador Edward M. Korry (left) and Baltimore Sun foreign affairs reporter Charles

Westmoreland, all under the aegis of the
student-sponsored series “Contact,” which
this year is focusing on a preview of
American foreign policy in the ‘80s;

[] Stokeley Carmichael, the civil-rights
activist, for a lecture under the
sponsorship of the Student Association for
Black Unity;

(] Clifford G. Christians,
communications professor at the
University of Illinois, as a participant in
the annual three-day workshop on
journalism ethics for working newsmen
and W&L students;

[] Malcolm Miller, lecturer at
Chartres Cathedral and specialist in
medieval iconography, for a lecture on
sculpture and stained glass at Chartres,
under the joint sponsorship of the
University’s departments of fine arts,
romance languages, and history;

[] A. C. Spearing of Cambridge
University, for a lecture on medieval
romance, under the aegis of the W&L
English Club;

([] Gerhard Popp of Eastman Kodak's
color photography research laboratories,
for a discussion of the chemistry involved
in color photography.

EG

New book by Mollenhoff

Clark Mollenhoffs new book, The
President Who Failed, was published in
February by Macmillan.

Mollenhoff, the Pulitzer Prize-winning
investigative reporter, is now professor of
journalism at W&L. The book—his
tenth—is subtitled “Carter Out of
Control.”

Macmillan describes it as “a no-holds-

 

 

ak

Corddry (left center) share their views on U.S. foreign policy during a seminar.

16

barred investigation of the scandals, abuses
of power, and mismanagement that have
plagued the Carter Administration . . . the
bungling and duplicity . . . the many ways
in which Jimmy Carter has been
compromised by corruption and political
expediency.”

Mollenhoff was a Washington reporter
for a quarter-century before joining the
W&L journalism faculty in 1976. For a
brief time during the first Nixon
Administration he was special counsel to
the President and White House
ombudsman, and one of his books, Game
Plan for Disaster (1976), is an insider's
chronicle of that period.

His new book has a foreword by Jack
Anderson, the political columnist, with
whom Mollenhoff works as an investigative
associate.

 

 

Faculty activity

C James Boatwright, editor of
Shenandoah and professor of English, will
be a panelist on literary topics including
small-press publishing at a conference of
prominent writers and editors scheduled
late in March at George Mason University
in suburban Washington, D.C.

C1 I. Taylor Sanders II, associate
history professor and University historian,
delivered a slide-lecture on the seemingly
unlikely topic “The Shroud of Turin As An
Historical Document” at the Roanoke
Valley Science Museum in February.
Sanders’ fields of specialty, in addition to
WA&L, include British history and ancient
history.

C1] John M. McDaniel, associate
professor of anthropology, has written an
article—his sixth—on the University's
recently completed archaeological
excavation at the ruins of Liberty Hall.

The article, an analysis of tobacco-pipe
artifacts and information they add to an
understanding both of 18th-century
student life and of the physical layout of
Liberty Hall, appeared in the winter issue
of the Quarterly Bulletin of the
Archaeological Society of Virginia. The
article was prepared with the assistance of
McDaniel’s postgraduate “Liberty Hall
scholars,” Kurt C. Russ, °78, and Parker
B. Potter, 79.

(] Charles W. Turner, professor of
history, is the author of an article tracing
the history of the Louisa Railroad Co.,
which eventually grew into the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad. The article

appears in the new issue of Virginia
Cavalcade, published by the State Library
(edited by W. Donald Rhinesmith, ’61).
Turner grew up in Louisa County,
between Charlottesville and Richmond,
and in fact lived almost next-door to
Frederick Hall, where the railroad was
actually organized in 1836.

[J Pamela Hemenway Simpson,
associate professor of art history and co-
author of the award-winning Architecture
of Historic Lexington, spoke on 19th-
century “pattern books’—which might be
considered architects’ texts—at a
conference on architectural history in
February at the University of Virginia.
Simpson drew from records of Lexington’s
Franklin Society Lending Library, now
part oi thie W&L collection, comparing
them with local 19th-century construction
records, to develop her research paper.

_] Roger B. Jeans, assistant professor
of Asian history, delivered a paper on the
National Socialist party in Republican
China at a meeting of the Southeast
Conference of the Association for Asian
Studies in January. Jeans was also
organizer of the conference panel session
on “alternative” political movements in
China from 1912 until the Communist
takeover in 1949. The 1981 meeting of the
conference will take place in Lexington
under the joint sponsorship of W&L and
Virginia Military Institute.

a aa PE

 

Sazeracs fade away
with goodwill gesture

The Sazeracs—W&L’s social singing
fraternity for 25 years and as familiar a
term as Cadaver and Sigma Society to two
generations of students—have performed
their last act of goodwill toward the
University for the present. Inactive on
campus for the last few years, the group

— 5

%

formally disbanded in February as the last
president of the Sazeracs, C. Stephen
Jones Jr., 79, presented a check
representing the remainder of the
organization's cash account to W&L’s
Annual Fund.

The group traces its origins to 1955; its
name was inspired by a specialty drink
served at the Hotel Roosevelt in New
Orleans. Tradition has it that a group of
W&L men, vacationing in the Crescent
City, imbibed deeply at this famous bar—
and ended the evening by breaking
spontaneously into song. Other patrons
evidently liked what they heard (or were
unable to judge what it was they were
hearing) for the Sazeracs’ debut remains a
golden legend.

By the next year, the 12-man club was
fully organized under the leadership of
James W. Lewis (class of 56, now
headmaster of the Holton Arms School).
The group soon became a familiar feature
at official University functions, at Natural
Bridge and Richmond conventions, and at
all the neighboring women’s colleges. In
addition, commercial recordings of Sazerac
concerts began as early as 1957 (with
provocative titles such as The Sazeracs
Reproduce).

Their glory days extended into the
1970s, playing concerts before such
celebrities as the Prince and Princess of
Austria, Zsa Zsa Gabor, Princess Lee
Radziwell and the entire American Ballet
Company. And for years, the Sazeracs’
spring vacation consisted of a week’s
engagement at the Taboo Club in Palm
Beach, Florida.

So now they are gone, but well
remembered—and with some heirs on
campus. “Southern Comfort,” though not a
fraternity, still features 12 voices in
harmony as a group within the W&L Glee
Club, and has performed in areas from
South Carolina to the Greenbriar. And
resurrection is always a possibility; the

 

University’s mid-winter break fell during
New Orleans’ Mardi Gras this year, and
voices lifted in wine-inspired song may
already be preparing another grand
entrance for the Sazeracs . . .

—M.G.C.

 

 

Lacrosse fever ahead;
spring is at hand

Washington and Lee will be host again
to the annual North-South lacrosse game
this year on June 14.

More than 50 of the nation’s best
lacrosse seniors will take part in the
contest, the showcase for the finest talent
in the sport. W&L was host for the North-
South game once before, in 1970—the first
time the game had been held farther south
than Maryland.

This year’s will be the 39th in the
series, which is led by the South, 19-17-1.
(In 1964 the game had a different team-
selection procedure and that year isn’t
counted in the statistics.) The North,
however, has won the last five in a row.

W&L’s athletic director, Bill
McHenry, the University’s associate
athletic director, Dick Miller, and W&L
head coach Jack Emmer are co-chairmen
of the 1980 North-South Game
Committee.

The game will take place on Wilson
Field at 2 p.m. Further information can be
obtained by writing WUL’s athletic
department.

EMMER HONORED

Jack Emmer, who begins his eighth
season as head coach of the W&L lacrosse
team this spring, received the Century
Club Certificate this winter from the
United States Lacrosse Coaches
Association, marking his hundredth
varsity-team victory.

Emmer, who has been the association’s
Coach of the Year three times, has won 78
victories at W&L and 32 before that when
he was coach of the Division II team at
Cortland State in New York.

TEAM VISITS BERMUDA

The University’s 1980 intercollegiate
lacrosse season opens March 15 with a
home contest against Syracuse—following
early-spring practice notable for some
tough challenges set off by a week’s
working holiday in Bermuda.

The team spent W&L’s week-long
Washington's Birthday break in Bermuda,

17

a Gazette

where the weather is more predictable
than it is in Lexington, and where spirits
get a big lift—especially when the trip
costs next to nothing.

The 32 members of the team who took
part raised almost all the money—nearly
$5,500—through a variety of fund-raising
projects and events beginning last fall. The
trip ended up costing each player only
about $10 of his own money.

 

President and Mrs. Huntley lead off the marathon with a bit of cheek-

to-cheek ballroom style.

 

University photographer Sally Mann consoles Maurice D. Leach Jr.,
University librarian, after one of several “pie throws.”

 

 

MD dance marathon
raises nearly $24,000

Students at Washington and Lee raised
$23,954 toward muscular dystrophy
research and treatment by lasting 30 hours
in the school’s second annual MD dance
marathon. In all, 150 dancers tripped the
light fantastic over the weekend of January
25-27. And by the time they stopped, at 2

18

The Generals had two hard practices
every day and were obliged to observe an
11 p.m. curfew. But there was enough
time left over for the players to have a
first-rate good time, too.

And nobody could complain about the
food . . . Gerald J. Darrell, director of the
University’s food service, was on hand for
the trip, accompanied by his head chef and
1,400 pounds of food, which was parcelled

yy

 

 

The ever-popular “Vandales” climax the dancing at the MD Marathon—

out among the players to carry on the
plane. Darrell and Chef Dunn prepared all
food for the team as yet another cost-
saving maneuver.

A week after their return, they got
down to actual competition, with a
scrimmage against Bucknell University on
the day after the Fancy Dress Ball—
making for a weekend that may well have
been the ultimate test of stamina.

it’s 1 a.m. Sunday and the dancers are still going strong.

a.m. Sunday, they had exceeded their
$15,000 goal by 60 percent.

Seven bands, ranging in style from
bluegrass and “rock and roll,” to disco and
soul, kept feet moving and spirits high. In
addition, a variety of events helped keep
the enterprising dancers awake in the
small hours of the morning—a tricycle
race, a ‘hairy legs” contest, and a series of
“pie throws,” in which several W&L
professors volunteered to act as targets for

 

Student co-chairmen James Hemby (left) and Jay Blumberg are tired but
triumphant with a record total on the tote board.

 

 

 
 

ae. 43 .

cream pies, the honor sold to the highest
bidder. (A new record was set this year
when the assistant dean for fraternity
affairs fetched a price of $90, followed
closely by his boss, the dean of students, at
$82. )

Plans are already being formed for next
years “30 Rounds Against Muscular
Dystrophy —the newest and biggest
student charity event at W&L, and a first-
rate time for all involved.

by Rupert N. Latture, °15

Special Assistant to the President

WL&L's Star Cluster
Of

College Presidents

Another in Rupert Latture’s
Series on Alumni Who Work

Their Way to High Stations

Washington and Lee University is well and favorably known
for her alumni who have excelled in the fields of law, medicine,
the ministry, and business. Not so well known is that a
considerable number of alumni have served as college
presidents. In the early days of this country, schools and
colleges were established to prepare young men for the
Christian ministry, particularly by the Presbyterian church, which
emphasized the importance of an educated clergy. In some
instances, Presbyterian ministers started their first classes in
their homes. Such was the case with Robert Alexander, who in
1749 began a course of instruction which led to the
establishment of Liberty Hall Academy and eventually to
Washington and Lee University. Many men trained at
Washington and Lee’s predecessor institutions—Augusta
Academy, Liberty Hall Academy, and Washington College—
moved westward with the population and established
preparatory schools and colleges in widely scattered locations.

Several of the colleges named here no longer exist. Some
never gained much strength and others were absorbed in
mergers. A few of the schools were directed by principals, such
as William Graham who was the first principal of Liberty Hall.
In the case of the University of Virginia, the office of president
was not created until 1904, when Dr. Edwin A. Alderman was
chosen to fill that position. Before that time the administrative
functions were performed by the chairman of the faculty. Three
Washington College alumni who are listed here served as
chairmen of the University of Virginia faculty. Dr. Edgar F.
Shannon Jr. more recently served as president of the University
from 1959 to 1974.

William Lambdin Prather, president of the University of
Texas, is worthy of a special note. He was an outstanding
student during General Lee’s presidency. He was selected to
represent the student body and act as one of the pallbearers at
General Lee’s funeral. He later attained prominence as a lawyer
in Texas and for seven years served as president of the
University of Texas. He often challenged his students by
exclaiming that “the eyes of Texas are upon you!” He said that
he got that expression from General Lee, who used to remind
his soldiers that “the eyes of the South are upon you.” Of
course, the popular song in Texas was inspired by this stirring
slogan.

 

Archibald Alexander, 1789

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI
WHO HAVE BEEN COLLEGE PRESIDENTS

ALEXANDER, ARCHIBALD, 1789, D.D., LL.D.
Hampden-Sydney College, Hampden-Sydney, Virginia, 1796-
1801
Princeton Theological Seminary, Princeton, New Jersey,
1812-1851 (First President)

ALEXANDER, GEORGE DOUGLAS, 1842, B.A.
Minden Female College, Shreveport, Louisiana, 1881-1886

ANDERSON, ISAAC, 1787, D.D.
Maryville College (Southern and Western Theological Semi-
nary),
Maryville, Tennessee, 1813-1857 (First President)
ARMSTRONG, JOHN, 1850, B.A., D.D.
Parsons College, Fairfield, lowa, 1877-1879

AYRES, BROWN, 1874, B.S., Ph.D., LL.D., D.L.C.
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, Tennessee, 1904-1919

BARTON, RICHARD T., 1848
Goliad College, Goliad, Texas, 1884-1886 (First President)

BAXTER, GEORGE ADDISON, 1800, B.A., D.D.
Washington College (Washington and Lee University),
Lexington, Virginia, 1799-1829

BLACKWELL, JOHN CLYDE, 1832, D.D.
Buckingham Female College, Buckingham, Virginia, 1847-
1863 (First President)

BLAIN, CARY RANDOLPH, 1903, B.A., M.A., Ph.D., D.D.
Louisville Theological Seminary, Louisville, Kentucky,
1799-1829

BROWN, WILLIAM MOSELEY, 1914, B.A., M.A., Ph.D.
Atlantic University, Virginia Beach, Virginia, 1930-1932
(First President)

CARRICK, SAMUEL, 1782, A.B.

Blount College (University of Tennessee), Knoxville,
Tennessee, 1794-1809 (First President)

CHEEK, E. ALSTON JR., 1868
Anderson Seminary, Campbellsville, Kentucky, 1887-1895
(First President)

19

Ww&L’s College Presidents

William L. Prather, 1872 Brown Ayres, 1874 John T. Fey, 1937

 

 

 

COOPER, ROBERT FRANKLIN, 1902, B.A., M.A., Ph.D. Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia, 1968-
se Synodical College, Jackson, Mississippi, 1921- Jones, Howarp LEE, 1891, D.D.

Coker College, Hartsville, South Carolina, 1914-1915
Belhaven College, Jackson, Mississippi, 1939-1952 oker College, Hartsville, south Varouna

CURRELL, WILLIAM SPENCER, 1878, B.A., Ph.D.
University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina,

Koontz, Louis KNOTT, 1908, B.A.
Frederick College, Frederick, Maryland, 1909-1912

1914-1922 Lacy, Drury, 1820, D.D.

Diecut, GEORGE WEST, 1913, B.A., B.D., M.A., LL.D., D.D. Davidson College, Davidson, North Carolina, 1855-1860
Concord State College, Athens, West Virginia, 1924-1929 LEE, ROBERT EDMUND, 1941, B.A., M.A.

Morris-Harvey College, Charleston, West Virginia, 1929-1930 Georgia College, (The Woman’s College of Georgia),

DILLARD, JAMES Harpy, 1877, M.A., LL.B., Litt.D., LL.D. Milledgeville, Georgia, 1956-1967
Mary Institute, Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri, LEWIS, FRANK BELL, 1932, B.A., Ph.D., LL.D.

1887-1891 Mary Baldwin College, Staunton, Virginia, 1947-1953

Doak, SAMUEL, 1767, A.B., D.D. LUND, FRANZ EDWARD Jr., 1933, B.A., Ph.D., LL.D.
Washington College, Jonesboro, Tennessee, 1795-1818 Alabama College, Montevallo, Alabama, 1952-1957
Tusculum College, Greenville, Tennessee, 1818-1830 (First Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, 1957-1968

President) LYLE, DUNCAN CAMPBELL, 1869, M.A., Litt.D.

FEY, JOHN T., 1937, LL.B., M.B.A., LL.D. McDonogh School, Baltimore, Maryland, -1919
University of Vermont, Burlington, Vermont, 1958-1964 MAGuIRE, JOHN Davin, 1953, B.A., B.D. Ph.D.. LL.D.
University of Wyoming, Casper, Wyoming, 1964-1966 State University of New York at Old Westbury, New York,

FLEECE, GEORGE ALLEN, 1931, A.B., D.D. 1970-

Columbia Bible College, Columbia, South Carolina, 1953-1966 MARTIN, WILLIAM T., 1931, B.A., LL.B., LL.D.

GAINES, FRANCIS PENDLETON JR., 1937, M.A., Ph.D. Sullins College, Bristol, Virginia, 1949-1972
Wofford College, Spartanburg, South Carolina, 1952-1957 MAUPIN, SOCRATES, 1827, M.D.

GRAHAM, EDWARD, 1789 University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 1854-1870
New London Academy, Bedford, Virginia, 1801-1813 MOOMAW, W. Hucu, 1947, B.A., M.A., Ph.D.

HAMILTON, ALEXANDER L., 1846, D.D. Stratford College, Danville, Virginia, 1963-1974
Andrew Female College, Cuthbert, Georgia, 1866-1881 MITCHELL, JAMES, 1780

Hosss, CoLumBus Haywoop, 1875 New London Academy, Bedford, Virginia, 1786-1789
Center University, Dallas, Texas, 1879-1881 Moore, JAMES, 1786

HocE, Moses, 1782, B.A., D.D. Transylvania University (Translyvania Seminary), Lexington,
Hampden-Sydney College, Hampden-Sydney, Virginia, 1807- Kentucky, 1799-1804 (First President)

1820 Moore, JOSEPH MARION, 1908, B.A., B.D.
HUNTLEY, ROBERT EDWARD RoyALL, 1950, B.A., LL.B., Greenbriar Military Academy, Lewisburg, West Virginia,
LL.M., LL.D. 1914-1970

20

Harry M. Philpott, 1938

 

MORRISON, WILLIAM Brown, 1897, Litt. D.
Oklahoma Presbyterian College, Durant, Oklahoma, 1910-
1925 (First President)

PAINE, HENRY H., 1829, B.A.

Holly Springs College, Holly Springs, Mississippi, 1856-1870
PENDLETON, DUDLEY DIGGEs, 1859

Shepherd College, Shepherdstown, West Virginia, 1882-1885

PHILPOTT, HARRY M., 1938, B.A., Fats, b2.5),
Auburn University, Auburn, Alabama, 1965-1980

PIPER, JOHN Hays, 1819, B.A., M.A., D.D.
East Tennessee College (University of Tennessee), Knoxville,
Tennessee, 1833-1834

PRATHER, WILLIAM LAMBDIN, 1872, LL.B., LL.D.
University of Texas, Austin, Texas, 1899-1906

PRESTON, THOMAS LEwIS, 1825, D.D.
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 1864-1865

PRESTON, WILLIAM CAMPBELL, 1810, LL.D.
South Carolina College, Columbia, South Carolina, 1846-1851

PRIESTLY, JAMES, 1782, B.A., LL.D.
Cumberland College, Nashville, Tennessee, 1782-1784
(First President)

RAYMOND, JAMES S., 1861, LL.D.
Jefferson College, Washington, Mississippi, 1872-1911

RICE, JOHN HOLT, 1793, D.D.
Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Virginia, 1823-1831

ROGERS, RICHARD W., 1869
Reinhardt College, Waleska, Georgia, 1895-1901

Roy, ANDREW Top, 1925, B.A., Ph.D.
Chung Chi College, Hong Kong, 1967-1972

RUFFNER, HENRY, 1814, B.A., D.D., LL.D.
Washington College (Washington and Lee University), Lex-
ington, Virginia, 1836-1848

Edgar F. Shannon Jr., 1939

 

Luther W. White, 1949

 

RUFFNER, WILLIAM HENRY, 1842, B.A., LL.D., D.D.
Farmville Normal School (Longwood) F armville, Virginia,
1884-1887 (First President)

RusT, LAWRENCE, 1875, M.A., LL.D.
Kenyon Military Academy, Gambier, Ohio

SCOTT, JOHN ADDISON JR., 1868, D.D.
Mitchell College, Statesville, North Carolina, 1900-1916

SHANNON, EDGAR FINLEY JR., 1939, B.A., Ph.D., LL.D..,
Litt.D.
University of Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, 1959-1974

STRIBLING, CHARLES R. JR., 1917, B.A.
New Mexico Military Institute, Mexico, Missouri, 1933-1968

THOMPSON, WILLIAM McQuown, 1887, D.D.
Mission School, Pernambuco, Brazil, 1913-1920

TUFTS, EDGAR, 1894, B.A.
Lees-McRae College, Banner Elk, North Carolina, 1907-
1923 (First President)

WALDEN, JULIUS WALKER, 1672, D2: L4:D.
Palmer College, DeFuniak Springs, Florida, 1907-1910
(First President)
WATSON, CHARLES CALDWELL, 1956, A.B., LL.B.
The Hill School, Pottstown, Pennsylvania, 1973-

WEBB, FRANK BELL, 1869
Isbell Female College, Talladega, Alabama, 1901-1903

WEBER, JAMES Biss, 1874
Mount Pleasant College, Huntsville, Missouri, 1881-1882

WHITE, LUTHER W., 1949, Ph. s Lal dt:, LD.
Randolph-Macon College, Ashland, Virginia, 1967-1979
Kentucky Wesleyan College, Owensboro, Kentucky, 1979-

WILLETT, HEnry S., 1952, B.A., Ph.D.
Longwood College, Farmville, Virginia, 1967-

WorRNER, LLoyp E. Jr., 1940, B.A., Ph.D., LL.D.
Colorado College, Colorado Springs, Colorado, 1963-1981

21

Chapter News

LYNCHBURG. Washington and Lee
alumni in Lynchburg and their guests
gathered for the annual W&L Christmas
Dance on Friday, December 7, at the Elks
Club. Music for the ever-popular black-tie
affair was provided by The Best of
Friends. One sad note was that this year’s
event marked the end of a long tradition;
the downtown Elks Club, scene of the
dance for years, will be razed for urban
redevelopment before next Christmas. The
large crowd danced and enjoyed the
beginning of the holiday season despite the
loss.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. The
chapter held its annual Christmas party on
December 27 at KCOZ radio station, made
available by Jim Reeder, 55. Everyone,
including both current and prospective
students as well as the alumni, enjoyed the
spacious surroundings and endorsed the
expression of appreciation by T. Haller
Jackson III, ’73, chairman of the chapter's
Alumni Admissions Program.

DELMARVA. In the beautiful setting of
the Talbot Country Club in Easton, Md.,
the chapter met on Jan. 19, 1980, in honor
of the birthday of Robert E. Lee. Cocktails
preceded a delicious dinner. Guest
speaker for the occasion was Dr. Taylor
Sanders, associate professor of history at
W&L and University Historian. His
address was entitled “General Robert E.
Lee: Another Side,” a view of the “benign
wit” of the famous Confederate leader and
W&L President. In the short business
session which followed, outgoing president
Emie Cornbrooks, ’67, reported for the
nominating committee and named the
following to office for the new term: James
M. Slay, 65, "71L, president; Alexander P.
Rasin III, ’65, vice president; B. Randall
Coates, "72, secretary; David R. Hackett,
’69L, treasurer; and Edward A. Ames III,
61, recording secretary. Future activities
were then announced, and flowers were
presented to the lady who travelled the
greatest distance to attend the evening's
festivities.

ATLANTA. In honor of General Lee’s
birthday, the chapter held an elegant

22

 

 

 

cocktail reception on January 24 for all
area alumni at the spacious home of Bo
DuBose, 62, and Mrs. DuBose. Chapter
president Fleming Keefe, ‘61, assisted
with the preparations, along with vice

LYNCHBURG—At Christ-
mas Dance are Tica Sydnor;
President Starke Sydnor,
66; Virginia Fauntleroy;
Treasurer George Calvert,
°73; Eleanor Washburn;
Vice President Bill
Washburn, ‘66.

DELMARVA—Dr. Taylor
Sanders speaks; at head
table are Mrs. Alex Rasin‘:
Mrs. James M. Slay; Ernest
Cornbrooks II, 67; Mrs.
Cornbrooks; Alex Rasin
III, 65.

DELMARVA—Having
cocktails are B. Randall
Coates, 72L; Mrs. Coates;
Mrs. Raymond Coates;
Raymond D. Coates, ’50.

ATLANTA—At Lee’s Birth-
day celebration are Russ
Fletcher, ’74; Craig Jones,
°73; Phil Thompson, 68,
71L.

president Whitlow Wyatt, 70, secretary
Matt Cole, 71, and their respective ladies.
A very large crowd attested to the success
of this special occasion for all Washington
and Lee people.

Class Notes

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$90.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$75.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight charges and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

 

1924
FRANCIS PLOwMaN, though retired from Scott
Paper Co., continues to be most active in com-
munity life in Swarthmore, Pa. He is involved
with the Better Business Bureau, local hospitals
and churches, and the Glen Mills School for De-
linquents. |

1926

Dr. CHARLES W. Lowry is teaching advanced
placement English literature at Wallace O’Neal
Day School in Pinehurst, N.C.

MONTGOMERY LEWIS RIDENOUR is a retired em-
ployee of British-American Tobacco Co. of Hong
Kong, China, and resides in Naples, Fla.

1927

REV. J. TALBERT MORGAN, prior to his retirement
in 1970, had served for 25 years as rector of St.
Mark’s Church in Brunswick, Ga.

1928

JOHN LEIGHTON STUART Jr. retired from the
Presbyterian ministry in 1973. He and his wife,
Lyda, live in Summit, Miss.

1931

JUDGE J. ROBERT MARTIN JR., Chief Justice of the
U.S. District Court in Greenville, S.C., and the
state’s senior jurist, celebrated his 70th birthday in
November and stepped down as chief federal judge
for South Carolina. Martin’s career on the bench
has been laced with some of the state’s largest and
most dramatic cases. He has been given a great
deal of credit for easing South Carolina’s transition
to integrated schools and public facilities. Martin
began practicing law just after graduation from
WA&L, and in 1942 was elected to the state House
of Representatives. He was elected Circuit Judge
in 1944, and in 1961 was appointed to the federal
bench by President Kennedy.

BINFORD E. PARKER has been with the Parker
Peanut Co. in Suffolk, Va., since graduation in
1931. He is now president of the company.

1933

JOE F. BEAR continues in the family lumber busi-
ness firm in Montgomery, Ala., with his brother,
Jack Bear, ’38, his nephew, Clyde S. Bear II, 68,
and his son, Joe Bear Jr., 65.

HENRY V. SAUNDERS, formerly an attorney in
Washington, D.C., has retired and now lives in
Charles Town, W. Va.

1935

WILLIAM D. McDavip of Pensacola, Fla., retired
in July 1979 as manager of Reichhold Chemical

23

 
 
 

- 7 a - ne -
. : - 7 - - - -

 

I

 

   

E. P. Hobbs, 62, and W. E. Rawlings, ’52

ROGERS G. WELLES owns and operates Woodcraft
Supply Corp., a mail order business selling wood-
working tools available from Europe and the U.S.
The firm is in Winchester, Mass.

1949

E. MCGRUDER F4niIs is a professor of law at Stetson
Law School in St. Petersburg, Fla.

PERRY E. MANN of Hinton, W.Va., continues as
prosecuting attorney in Summers County.

J. MAURICE MILLER (See 1945.)

1950
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HowarD STEELE, a
daughter, Jennifer Lynn, on June 21, 1979. The
family is currently in Bolivia where Steele is with
the U.S.A. Aid Program.

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN is still in the U.S. Foreign
Service. His present assignment is with the in-
spection office of the U.S. International Com-
munications Agency in Washington, D.C.

ARTHUR M. ROBERTs is president of the Shea
Insurance Agency in Bennington, Vt. His daugh-
ter, Jody, has been named vice president and
manager of the Shea Agency Real Estate. The
agency provides all types of insurance and real
estate services in both residential and commercial
properties.

1951

LAWRENCE LEVITAN, a member of the Maryland
State Senate, has been named chairman of the
Senate Budget and Taxation Committee.

WILLIAM S. Rosasco III, a developer of real estate
in Santa Rosa County, Fla., has received one of six
awards given for exceptional and outstanding lead-
ership to the Democratic Party in the state of
Florida.

W. K. VANCE RUCKER is president of Scragg North
America Inc., a textile machinery division of Stone-
Platt Industries of England. His offices are in
Charlotte, N.C., and he handles the sales and
services of machinery for North, Central, and South
America.

E. MCGRUDER Faris (See 1949.)

1952

CAPT. ROBERT F.. CONNALLY has been relieved as
commander of the Navy Recruiting District in
Houston and will assume duties as Inspector Gen-
eral, Navy Recruiting Command, with headquar-
ters in Orlando, Fla.

WILLIAM E. RAWLINGS, president of American
Maize-Products Co., has been in the forefront of
the arrangements for the leasing of the new head-

quarters office of American Maize in Stanford,
Conn. Representing Albert B. Ashforth Associates
in the leasing agreement was Edward P. (Ned)
Hobbs, ’62.

1953

WILLIAM M. HOLLIs Jr. of Berwyn, Pa., has re-
cently completed a television docudrama With Poe
at Midnight for Media Concepts Inc. of Philadel-
phia. He anticipates its showing on PBS later this
year. In December 1979, Hollis gave the gradua-
tion address at Florida Southern College and was
awarded an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters
degree.

REV. CHARLES F.. MCNUTT JR., rector of the Mar-
tinsburg (W.Va.) Trinity Episcopal Church, has
been named to the board of trustees at City Hospi-
tal. McNutt has been actively involved in local
community activities since accepting his position
at Trinity in 1974. He has been chairman of the
Citizens Advisory Committee on housing; presi-
dent of Norborne Day Care Center and a four-year
member of that institutions board of directors; a
member of the board of the Martinsburg Chamber
of Commerce; and is currently serving as a mem-
ber-at-large on the city council. He and his wife,
Alice, have two sons and a daughter.

RODNEY F. STOCK JR. is commander of the Fraud
and Auto Theft Unit of the Reno, Nev., Police
Detective Division. He was recently elected to
the board of directors of the Nevada Check and
Credit Card Investigation Association.

ALAN WEBER has been named president and chief
executive officer of Spacevision Inc., an EMI
Group Co. He had been special counsel for Capitol
Industries—EMI Inc. after serving as senior attor-
ney for Capitol Records Inc., a firm he joined in
1971. Weber's corporate legal experience is broad
and varied. He earned his law degree from the
University of Michigan.

1954

JOSEPH L. LANIER JR., president of West-Point
Pepperell for the past five years, has been elected
chairman of the corporation. He will continue as
chief executive officer of the company with offices
in West Point, Ga. Lanier has served in various
capacities with the company since 1957. Prior to
becoming president in 1974, he was elected exe-
cutive vice president in 1969. He has been a mem-
ber of the West-Point Pepperell board of directors
since 1968 and is also a director of Flowers Indus-
tries Inc., Liberty National Life Insurance Co..,
and Trust Co. of Georgia.

1955
WILLIAM D. BLAKE of Lake Charles, La., has
been elected chairman of the board of Bel Oil
Corp.

Harry M. HOLLINS is senior vice president of the

First National Bank of Lake Charles, La. He re-
cently retired from the Louisiana State Legislature
having served for 16 years; the past 8 years he was
chairman of the House Commerce Committee. In
1970 Hollins was selected as one of 50 outstanding
legislators in the nation, and in 1979 he was selected
as one of 10 most outstanding legislators in the
state of Louisiana.

Davip W. MCCAIN is vice president of operations
for Kozer Properties, a real estate development
firm in Jacksonville, Fla. He and his wife have two

daughters.

WILEY W. SPURGEON JR. has been executive edi-
tor of both the Muncie (Ind.) Star and Evening
Press since January 1979. He previously had served
as president of Public Relations Counselors Inc. of
Muncie and as editor of the Star. He and his wife
have three sons.

1957

Dr. TRAFFORD HILL JR. is in the private practice
of psychiatry and his wife, Mary, is an active realtor
in Virginia Beach, Va. The couple has three chil-
dren.

MORTON P. ILER has been named administrative
vice president of Ashland Chemical Co. Iler is
responsible for Ashland Chemical’s accounting,
credit, management engineering, office and build-
ing services, and planning and control depart-
ments. He joined Ashland Exploration Inc. , a sub-
sidiary of Ashland Oil Co., in 1973 as comptroller.

LEwIs S. MINTER has become general counsel of
the State Corporation Commission in Richmond.
He was formerly the deputy general counsel. Min-
ter served as an attorney for the Chessie System
from 1962 until 1972 when he joined the State
Corporation.

1958

CHARLES P. Corn has been named editor-in-chief
of the adult trade division of E. P. Dutton, the
book publishing firm. Corn had been executive
editor at Macmillan since May 1979. Before enter-
ing the publishing business in 1969 with Little
Brown and Co., Corn taught for six years at Ameri-
can University. In 1971 he moved to the editorial
department of Houghton Mifflin, and two years
later served as senior editor at Atheneum for four
years, before joining Macmillan in March 1978.

WILLIAM P. LAUGHLIN has returned to the U.S.
after three years in England and Norway where he
was working as a project management consultant
for the Exxon Corp. on the construction of offshore
platforms and pipelines in the North Sea. He is
now residing in Chatham, N.J.

1959

IRVIN EBAUGH III of Cockeysville, Md., has been
elected president of Bruning Paint Co.

25

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

ae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OB
a oo
a

SS

a Oo

 

 

and are collectors of antique English porcelain,
furniture, motorcycles and automobiles.

J. HOLMES MorkRISON was elected president of
the West Virginia Bankers Association Trust Divi-
sion and treasurer of the Charleston Estate Plan-
ning Council for 1979-80. Morrison is also a board
member of the Arthur B. Hodges Center Inc., a
non-profit extended care home for the elderly.

THOMAS N. RAINS is among 29 exceptional stu-
dents enrolled in Emory University’s graduate
program known as the Executive M.B.A. The
format is geared for executives in mid-career, es-
pecially those who find they need the skills of an
advanced business degree. Rains is engaged in a
real estate and investment management business
in Atlanta. His classes at Emory are held on alter-
nate weekends for an 18-month period. After
graduating from W&L, Rains went to work for a
local bank in their training program to get a back-
ground in finance. He subsequently handled a
number of large commercial and national accounts
in New York, Washington, Baltimore, and other
eastern cities. After his exposure in banking, Rains
took a job as a stock broker, and following this
began thinking about forming his own company in
real estate investments. His firm, the Rains Com-
pany, specializes in full scale management, leasing,
and construction and now concentrates on multi-
family residences and office buildings. To add to
the academic atmosphere in the Rains household,
Mrs. Rains is also in school, finishing a degree
from Agnes Scott College. The couple has two
daughters, ages 11 and 8.

CLARENCE RENSHAW II continues as a field pro-
ducer for NBC News, stationed in Houston, Texas.
Recent assignments include coverage of the Shah
of Iran in Mexico, Fidel Castro in Cuba, the junta
in E] Salvador, and others. His wife is the former
Cheryl Early of Portsmouth, Va.

Jay F. WILKs is a partner in the Norfolk law firm of
Kaufman & Oberndoefee. He specializes in real
estate law. Wilks is on the executive board of the
Virginia Opera Association and is a member of the
board and endowment trustee of the United Jewish
Federation. He and his wife, the former Marlene
Beaver, have three children.

1964

Dr. JOHN M. DIXON is in the surgery department
at Palmyra Park Hospital in Albany, Ga.

ALFRED ECKES is currently executive director of
the House Republican Conference, U.S. House of
Representatives.

FREDERICK J. KRALL has been promoted to direc-
tor of marketing operations within the consumer
products division of Warner-Lambert Corp. Krall,
his wife, Susan, and daughters, Jenny and Katie,
live in Summit, N.J.

W. JERE TOLTON (See 1960.)

 

1965

Dr. KIAH T. Forp III is practicing radiology in
Lynchburg, Va. He and his wife have two sons,
Chip, 10 and Ian, 7.

JOHN W. Hunt is a partner for operations admini-
stration with Main Hurdman and Cranstoun in
New York. He lives in Westport, Conn., with his
wife, Ann, and four children.

L. SHANNON JUNG is teaching at Concordia College
in Moorhead, Minn. His book, Identity and Com-
munity: A Social Introduction to Religion, will be
published this winter by John Knox Press.

JAMES S. LEGG JR. is working on project planning
and analysis for the Link Division of the Singer Co.
at the Johnson Space Center in Houston, Texas.
The Link Division plans, designs, develops and
operates the link simulator used to train all of the
U.S. astronauts for flying NASA’s space shuttle
scheduled to be launched in 1980.

PETER J. STELLING has joined Corporate Travel
International in Atlanta, Ga., with responsibility
for sales and service of group and sales incentive
travel programs. He had served for six years as
assistant manager for the Atlanta Symphony,
booking tours and making all travel arrangements
for the orchestra.

TIMOTHY A. VANDERVER JR. is a partner in the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Patton, Boggs &
Blow. He and his wife, Ginger, and three sons live
in Bethesda, Md.

MARRIAGE: RALPH TRUMAN BROWN Jr. and
Leslie Randolph Bass on Dec. 1, 1979, in Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.

MARRIAGE: CHARLES W. REESE JR. and Jill
Fritschi Olsen on Aug. 10, 1979, in Piedmont,
Calif. They are designing a new home in Orinda.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Lewis N. MILLER, an
adopted daughter, Sara Balleriger, on July 23,
1979. Miller was promoted in November 1979 to
executive vice president of Central Fidelity Bank
in Richmond, Va.

Dr. C. BARRETT ALLDREDGE is in the private
practice of otolaryngology and facial plastic surgery
in Lafayette, La. He is also a clinical instructor in
otolaryngology at Tulane Medical School, where
he completed his residency in 1977. Alldredge, his
wife, Jane, and three children live in Lafayette.

C. FREDERICK BENT III has been elected a trustee
of the Social Law Library in Boston, Mass.

HARRY DENNERY has moved to Louisville, Ky.,
where he is sales and marketing manager for
BESCO Products, a manufacturer of bakery and
ice cream ingredients.

 

C. L. Smothers, ’72

THORNTON M. HEnnry is a partner in the law firm
of Jones and Foster with offices in Vero Beach and
West Palm Beach, Fla. Henry and his wife, Ann,
have two children, Ruth, 4 and Brad, 2.

HARRIS J. MASLANSKy has been promoted to
senior vice president of Columbia Pictures. He
lives in Port Chester, N.Y.

CLYDE L. N1PPER has been certified for the com-
prehensive practice of industrial hygiene by the
American Board of Industrial Hygiene.

1967
MARRIAGE: GuyTE P. McCorp III and Kathy
Leffew in May 1979. McCord is an attorney with
the firm of Spector and Tunnicliff in Tallahassee,
Fla.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ERNEST I. CORNBROOKS
III, a daughter, Martha Elizabeth, on July 12,
1979. Cornbrooks is a practicing attorney in Salis-
bury, Md.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN R. MCGILL, a
daughter, Laurie Suzanne, on Sept. 18, 1979, in
Bangor, Maine.

RICHARD D. BRADFORD is vice president with
Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. and manager of the
Charleston, W.Va., office.

As director of foreign policy studies at the Heritage
Foundation, JEFFREY B. Gaynor travelled for
three weeks throughout the Soviet Union as part
of the American delegation in an official exchange
program. He has had a book published, Namibia:
The Road to Independence.

Dr. T. K. OATEs II completed a cardiovascular
fellowship at the University of Toronto in June
1979. He is now in the practice of general and
cardiovascular surgery in Rochester, N.Y.

BRADFORD A. ROCHESTER became public infor-
mation officer at Rockingham Community College
in Wentworth, N.C., in August 1979. He had
been editor of the weekly Madison-Mayodan,
N.C., Sun.

JAMIE A. STALNAKER has become a partner in the
Norfolk law firm of Williams, Worrell, Kelly and
Green.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CorBeEtT F. BRYANT JR., a
fifth daughter, Hillary, on June 19, 1979. Bryant is
a partner in the Dallas law firm of Carrington,
Coleman, Sloman and Blumenthal.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. RE1D Cox JR., adaugh-
ter, Elizabeth Reid, on Dec. 10, 1978. Cox has
opened his own law office in Laurens, S.C.

27

SS 7

 

Oo
ae

=

Oo

i

a

 

 

 

 

a:

 

STAMAN OGILVIE is development vice president
for Gerald D. Hines Interests in Texas. Currently
he has responsibilities as officer in charge of a 2-
million square foot mixed-use center in Dallas.
The Ogilvies live in Houston.

JOHN G. STAFFORD JR. is a criminal defense attor-
ney practicing law for the U.S. Army Trial Defense
Services. He is stationed at Fort Ord in Monterey,

Calif.

HOLLIs C. TAGGART is director of the Interna-
tional Fine Arts Association Inc. in New Orleans,
La., fine art agents for museums, and both private
and corporate collectors. He heads the investment
division as consultant for investment firms and
pension plans.

RALPH T. BROWN Jr. (See 1966.)

1972
MARRIAGE; Joe D. Piprin and Cecelia Dotson
Young on June 22, 1979, in Wise, Va. Pippin is a
partner in the law firm of Pippin and Pippin in
Norton, Va.

MARRIAGE: Louts W. SHROYER IV and Frances
Maria Bateman on Oct. 19, 1979. The couple now
lives in Germantown, Md., where Shroyer is a
computer analyst with Flight Systems Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. IRA S. FELDMAN, a son,
Adam Richard, on July 8, 1979, in Buffalo Grove,
Ill.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ARTHUR N. FURHMAN, a
daughter, Rachel Cari, on Feb. 25, 1979. Furhman
received the LL.M. in taxation from New York
University and on Jan. 1, 1980, became a partner
in the law firm of Belson and Carlin in Basking
Ridge, N.J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp G. Moore, a
son, Adam Townsend, on Dec. 5, 1979. Moore is
director of alumni programs for Southwestern in
Memphis, Tenn.

C. GRAYSON FITZHUGH is a financial officer for
Akers Packaging Service in Middletown, Ohio,
and also a part-time flight instructor.

WILLIAM K. MILLKEY serves on the Department
of Housing and Urban Development’s White
House Task Force on Design and is in charge of
forming HUD’s research agenda on urban design.
Millkey is special assistant to the assistant secretary
for policy development and research.

JOHN C. O'NEAL presented a paper on Rousseau
for the Eighteenth Century French Literature
Division at the annual convention of the Modern
Language Association in December 1979. He is
presently writing his dissertation on Rousseau at
U.C.L.A.

CapT. JOHN W. ROBINSON IV was appointed

Commissioner, U.S. Army Court of Military Re-
view, in Falls Church, Va.

Dr. FREDERICK H. SANDs is working in emergency
rooms in Atlanta and spending his free time travel-
ing. In July 1980, he will begin a fellowship in
adolescent medicine at the University of Washing-
ton in Seattle.

C. LINWOOD SMOTHERS has been appointed man-
ager of AN/BQQ-5 Training Operations at IBM in
Manassas, Va. He joined IBM at Manassas in 1974
as an associate engineer and worked in sonar sys-
tems engineering prior to this appointment.
Smothers earned the M.S. degree in computer
science and electrical engineering from Columbia
University in 1974.

MATTHEW P. STEPHENS is now in New York City
and has made several appearances on the TV pro-
gram Another World.

JOHN GRAHAM TUCKER is managing editor of In-
terior Design magazine, a division of the Whitney
Communications Corp. in New York. He received
his M.A. from the University of Chicago in 1977
and taught English in Tokyo for a school affiliated
with the Japanese Ministry of Education before
moving to New York.

DONALD W. WEIR JR. has completed the profes-
sional development program for the Arkansas-
Louisiana Gas Co. He lives in Shreveport, La.,
and is coordinator of legal services for the company.

MARRIAGE: CHARLES W. DUNN and Harriet
Blackwell Lovelace on Oct. 13, 1979, in Columbia,
S.C. They live in Nashville, Tenn.

MARRIAGE: Pau K. McCwure and Chris Ad-
nee Hutton on Jan. 12, 1980, in Memphis, Tenn.
W&L alumni guests included Henry Jones, ’52;
Hugh Francis, ’52; Justin Towner, 53; Don Mc-
Clure, ‘69; Harry Phillips, *72; Jim Stege, ’72;
Scott Wood, ’72; classmates Hatton Smith, Mar-
shall Washburn, Brandon Herbert, Tim Haley,
Bill Nickel, Lee Thalheimer and “T” Hardie; and
Bowman Williams, ’75. The couple lives in Mem-
phis, where McClure is an insurance agent.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE M. CROFT, a
son, Marshall St. Julian, on Aug. 22, 1979, in
Lexington, Va. The young man joins an older sister
and brother. Croft, formerly with the First Na-
tional Bank of South Carolina in Columbia, is now
in Roanoke, Va., as vice president and trust officer
for First National Exchange Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN K. DeEay, ason,
Stephen Parker, on Oct. 14, 1979, in Alexandria,
Va.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN H. Dumas II, a
daughter, Mary Caroline, on June 28, 1979, in

At the wedding of Sprague Eustis, ’76, were (1st
row) Rickey Bates, ’76; John Carrere, '69; Dyke
Wagner, ’79; Bobby Bates, ’78; Julian Good, ’78;
John Sarpy, ’72; Don Caffery, ’76; (2nd row)
Mike Christovich, ’76; J. T. Lykes Jr., °41;
Watson Tebo, ’74; Joe Carrere, 77: Steve Scully,
76; Mrs. Eustis; Sprague Eustis; Paul Cromelin,
‘76; Jay Fulcher, ’74: Rick McMillan, ’69; Jed
Lykes, °70; (3rd row) Dick Colton, 63, Chris
Scully, 75; Lee Eagan, ’75; Randal Walker.

Cincinnati, Ohio. Dumas is in his final year of
residency in internal medicine at the University of
Cincinnati Medical Center.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN CONNER UPDIKE
JR., ason, John Conner III, on Dec. 25, 1979. He
joins an older sister, Abigail Anne. Updike is vice
president of Alcoma Association Inc. in Lake
Wales, Fla.

JEFFREY C. BurRIs is a partner in the Indianapolis
law firm of Burris and Gross. He is also a part-time
prosecutor and instructor in real estate at Indiana
University.

DaviD GRIFFIN is selling advertising for Liturgical
Publications in Hartford, Conn. He lives in Crom-
well, Conn.

GEORGE H. HARDER III has become legislative
counsel to the Rosslyn, Va., firm of Alcalde, Hen-
derson and O'Bannon, government and public af-
fairs counsellors.

CapT. DALE M. RHODES will leave the U.S. Army
in April 1980 and move to Columbia, S.C. , to work
as a public accountant. He is currently a lecturer in
federal auditing techniques at the U.S. Institute of
Administration in Indianapolis as well as a post-
graduate student in banking computer applications
at U.C.L.A. Rhodes is married to the former San-
dra Ayers and they have a 3-year-old daughter,
Cecily Anne. He earned his M.B.A. at the Univer-
sity of Mississippi and completed his C.P.A. re-
quirements while in the Army.

GEORGE M. ROUNDs is working in the M.B.A.
program at Georgia State University in Atlanta,
and is also affiliated with Davison’s Department
Store.

Dorsey M. WARD Jr. has been named director of
consultation and education for the Human Devel-
opment Center of Pasco, a non-profit community
mental health center serving a rural county in
west-central Florida. He earned his master’s de-
gree in social work from Florida State University.
Ward and his wife live in Tampa.

MARK R. YOUNG is southeastern manager in At-
lanta for Arbitron Television, a ratings service. He
had spent four years as controller and an account
executive with WXEX-TV in Richmond.

JAMIE A. STALNAKER (See 1967.)

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. L. PRENTICE EAGER III of
Atlanta, Ga., a daughter, Eloise Oliver, on Dec.
13, 1979.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN LEE KIRKPATRICK
Jr., adaughter, Kelsey Miller, on Dec. 9, 1979, in
Owensboro, Ky. Kirkpatrick is director of public
relations and promotion for Owensboro On The

29

a
a

 

 

 

RICHARD T. WOULFE has joined the law firm of
Dickman and Barnett in Coral Gables, Fla. The
firm specializes in medical and legal malpractice
litigation.

MARK E. SHARP (See 1979.)

1977
MARRIAGE: WAYNE G. EDWARDS and Stefanie
Hollander on April 21, 1979, in Great Neck, N.Y.
Classmates in the wedding party included Ted
Grosser and Edward Kowal, as well as Thomas
Healy, "79L. The Edwards live in Uniondale, N.Y.

MARRIAGE: MICHAEL L. FERRARA and Kathy
Lee Reed on Aug. 10, 1979, in Baltimore, Md.
Ferrara is a reporter for The Chronicle in Augusta,
Ga.

MARRIAGE: CLARENCE N. FRIERSON JR. and
Kathryn Jane Rudd on Sept. 22, 1979. They live in
Shreveport, La., where Frierson farms the family’s
plantation with his father and two brothers.

MARRIAGE; Tuomas A. HENDRY III and Jean
Marta Foster on June 30, 1979, in Hart, Texas.
Attending the wedding were Paul C. Hendry, ’80,
Jeff H. Barr, "77, and John R. Buckthal, 77. Hendry
works for the General Systems Division of IBM in
Amarillo.

Douc.ass W. DEwING is a second-year law stu-
dent at Washington University. He is on the staff
of the Urban Law Annual, one of the school’s two
law reviews, and his major case comment should
be published in late spring or early fall.

ELIZABETH TONI GUARINO works for the solicitor
of the new Federal Labor Realtions Authority in
Washington .as a staff attorney.

RANDALL B. JOHNSON has been named banking
officer for Wachovia Bank and Trust Co.’s office in
High Point, N.C.

WILLIAM MICHAEL LAGNA received an M.S. de-
gree in organic chemistry from the University of
Maryland and is currently completing a Ph.D.
program in medicinal chemistry. Upon receipt of
his doctorate, he plans to attend law school.

RUSSELL L. HEwiIt (See 1974.)
BRADFORD M. MARTIN (See 1974.)

JOHN PAUL WOODLEY Jr. (See 1974.)

1978
MARRIAGE: Erik S. GREENBAUM and Elisabeth
Truett on Aug. 11, 1979. Greenbaum will graduate
from pharmacy school in May 1980 and then plans
to work in the family drug store.

MARRIAGE: ALExis B. LAMOTTE and Caroline

- a 4
es
‘ #
b
a
ie 5

Agnew on Feb. 24, 1979. They live in Chester-
town, Md., where LaMotte works for LaMotte
Chemical Products Co.

MARRIAGE: JONATHAN W. SAGER and Karen
Marie Wischerath on Oct. 26, 1979, in Syracuse,
N.Y. They live in Fayetteville, N.Y.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KEITH D. BOYETTE, ason,
Jason Matthew, in June 1979. Boyette is associated
with the Richmond law firm of Hirschler, Fleisch-
er, Weinberg, Cox and Allen.

EDWARD A. BURGESS is working to complete the

M.B.A. in finance at Emory University in June
1980.

DAvID W. CHESTER joined the U.S. Navy in June
1979 and received his commission as an ensign in
November at the completion of Officer Candidate
School in Newport, R.I.

WILLIAM O. CRANSHAW is attending the Graduate
School of Management at the University of
Rochester. He is an M.B.A. candidate for 1981.

WILLIAM M. EwInc is now working in the Atlanta,
Ga., office of Clayton Environmental Consultants.

GEORGE W. FAISON Jr. is a student at the Colum-
bia University Graduate School of Business.

R. B. NASH FRANCIS is employed at the Richmond
branch of the Fidelity and Deposit Co. of Mary-
land. He is training as a bond underwriter.

DAviID G. FRANKLIN has moved to Houston,
Texas, to work in a loan production office of the
Chemical Bank of New York.

JULIAN H. Goon Jp. is the internal management
and operations executive for Resilio Sportswear, a
division of Wembley Industries in New Orleans,

La.

2ND LT. MARK W. HAMPTON and his wife, Becky,
are living in Wurzburg, Germany, where he is
serving with the 123rd Signal Battalion of the U.S.
Army.

PETER BOTTS MEEM is a registered representative
of the Washington investment brokerage firm of
Johnston, Lemon and Co. He is in the Old Town
Office in Alexandria, Va.

JONATHAN R. Monrkris is a second-year law student
at Fordham University. He participated by invita-
tion in the writing competition for the Fordham
Law Review and was a finalist in the Moot Court
competition. He will be a 1980 summer associate
for a New York firm.

THOMAS O. O'Hara is enrolled in the M.B.A.
program at the College of William and Mary.

MARK PUTNEY, an assistant in the W&L admis-

At the wedding of Alexis LaMotte, 78, were
Trigg Sanders, ’79; Whit Houprich, ’78; David
% Low, 78; Ran Cosby, ’50; Scotty Haislip, 46;
g Andrew LaMotte; Tom Agnew, ’52; Lex LaM otte;
g2 Mrs. LaMotte; Jim Agnew, ’50; Bill Turner, 78;
oF Frederick Forsyth, 80; Patrick McCarty, ’74;

f ™ Frank Turner, ’77; Frank LaMotte, ’42: Matt

‘4 LaMotte, ‘74; Kemper LaMotte; Bob Peery, 78.

sions office in the 1978-79 year, is now a registered
representative with the Richmond, Va., invest-
ment firm of Alex Brown & Sons.

After a bicycle tour of England, W. Gorpon Ross
II taught English at a private language school and
worked as a disc jockey for eight months in Turin,
Italy. He returned to complete OCS at Newport,
R.I., and received his commission in November
1979 as an ensign in the U.S. Navy. Ross is assigned
to a ship in Charleston, S.C.

JAMES N. WALTER Jk. is a second-year law stu-
dent and a member of the editorial board for the
Law Review at the University of Alabama.

ALLEN W. WEEKS taught English in Salisbury,
N.C., while earning an M.A.T. degree at Duke
University. He is now teaching English and coach-
ing cross-country and track at Trinity Episcopal
High School in Richmond, Va.

ENSIGN WILLIAM G. WELCH has completed the
basic Naval Flight Officer Program at the Pensacola
Naval Air Station, and has now entered advanced
training.

BENJAMIN G. PHILPOTT (See 1975.)

1979

F. WHITTEMORE BROMM is associated with the
law firm of Place, Prillaman and Barnett in Roa-
noke, Va.

JOHN E. COFFEY is associated with the law firm of
Thomas and Sewell in Alexandria, Va.

Howarp I. J. COLLIER has just returned from a
season playing soccer with Cork United in the
Football League of Ireland.

SHAWN ELLSwoRTH has joined his family busi-
ness, Ellsworth Wines and Liquors, located in
Princeton Junction, N.J.

JOHN T. JESSEE is a clerk to Judge John A. Field
Jr., senior circuit judge of the Fourth Circuit Court
of Appeals in Dunbar, W.Va.

FREEMAN E. JONES completed the Army’s infantry
officer's basic course along with classmates WILL
H. TANKERSLEY JR., WILLIAM D. Davis Jr., and
MARK S. TRAVERS. Jones is an infantry platoon
commander with the Second Armored Division at
Fort Hood, Texas. In April 1980, he will attend the
U.S. Army Ranger School.

Davib D. MYLIN is a second lieutenant in the Air
Force. In April 1980 he will be stationed in Sacra-
mento, Calif., for navigation training.

FRANK W. ROGERS III is manager and part-owner
of The Happy Clam seafood restaurant in Roa-
noke, Va. Rogers has been a summer employee of
the restuarant chain for three years.

31

 

MARK E. SHARP is associated with the Atlanta law
firm of Wildman, Harrold, Allen, Dixon and Mas-
inter. He is involved in litigation and immigration
work.

JAMES R. SHOEMAKER is a first-year student at
Washington and Lee University’s School of Law.

ARTHUR O. SMITH III is working for his family’s
business, A. O. Smith Corp., which manufactures
automobile and truck frames and other related
products. He lives in Milwaukee, Wisc.

Lr. CarLos C. SOLARI completed U.S. Army
Ranger School and departed for duty in Germany

with a communications company in January 1980.

Tracy A. WHITE is a first-year student at the
Walter F. George Law School of Mercer Univer-

sity.

ROBERT B. WOMBLE is associated with the law
firm of White and Crumpler in Winston-Salem,
N.C.

WILLIAM D. Davis (See Jones, 1979.)

WILL H. TANKERSLEY JR. (See Jones, 1979.)

MARK S. TRAVERS (See Jones, 1979.)

 

In Memoriam

 

1911

WILLIAM THORNHILL MACLEOD, retired Lynch-
burg businessman, died Dec. 21, 1979. Until his
retirement in 1966 he had been secretary-treasurer
of the State Industrial Loan Corp., a post he had
held for 23 years. MacLeod was active in many
civic affairs. He was former quarterback for River-
mont Athletic Club and a catcher for the Sterling
Baseball Club. MacLeod was a sports fan and was
the winner of the Virginia Amateur Athletic
Horseshoe Pitching Contest in 1958.

1917

PAUL DEVER PICKENS, a prominent and long-time
resident of Cumberland, Md., died Dec. 3, 1979.
Pickens was a member of the W&L Ambulance
Corps during World War I and went to France
even before America entered the war. He was
decorated with the French Croix de Guerre.
Pickens later became the Ford dealer in Cumber-
land at the St. George Motor Co.

1928

JOHN ALEXANDER WELSH JR., a banker and former
mayor of Chesterfield, S.C., died at his home June

32

14, 1979. He was chairman of the board of directors
of the Bank of Chesterfield, a deacon in the Pres-
byterian Church, former president of the Civitan
Club, and a World War II Navy veteran.

1929

EDWARD HATCHER OULD JR., a leading Roanoke,
Va., banker for more than 40 years, died Dec. 17,
1979, in a Charlottesville hospital following heart
surgery. As chairman of Dominion Bankshares
Corp., Ould was one of Virginia's chief financiers.
Ould was also president of the First National Ex-
change Bank for more than 20 years, before retiring
from active banking in 1977. He started with the
First National Exchange Bank in 1936 as manager
of its real estate and mortgage loan department.
Ould had been a member of the boards of the
Virginia Military Institute, Roanoke College,
Times-World Corp., and the Shenandoah Building
Corp. He had been vice president of the Old
Dominion Industrial Exposition and the YMCA,
treasurer of the Roanoke Valley Development
Corp., and a director of a number of civic groups.

1930

JOHN FREDERICK SPIVEY, a former circuit judge
with the 5th judicial circuit of Illinois, died Nov.
20, 1979. Judge Spivey was appointed by the Su-
preme Court of Illinois to the Illinois Appellate
Court, 2nd and 4th districts, and served from 1957-
1964. He was a former member of the executive
committee of the Illinois Judicial Conference.

DouGLas G. THOMAS, a well-known orchardist of
Martinsburg, W.Va., died Nov. 27, 1979. Thomas
was the owner and operator of the Bryarly Manor
Orchards. Having won Martinsburg’s men’s singles
title for 10 straight years, 1930-39, Thomas had
been known as “Mr. Tennis of Martinsburg.” He
was a member of the Rotary Club, the Elks Club,
the West Virginia Horticulture Society, the Old
Guard Society of Palm Beach, and a director of
Virginia's Seniors.

DAVID ARNOLD TODD, a farmer and cattle rancher,
died Sept. 18, 1979, in Nevada, Mo. Todd was
owner and operator of Arnold Farms.

1931
ALBERT CONNOR JONES JR. of Batesburg, S.C.,
died March 26, 1979. He was former president of
the Batesburg Fertilizer Co. and the Batesburg
Cotton Co. Jones was also a director of the local

bank.

1932
ROBERT THOMAS SILVA, a civil engineer and resi-
dent of Albany, Ga., died March 30, 1979. Silva
served with the United States Navy in the Pacific
Theatre during World War II.

1933

JacoB LIGHTSEY WALLACE, a former partner in I.

At the wedding of Thomas A. Hendry III, ’77,
were John Buckthal, ’77; Paul Hendry, 80; Mrs.
Hendry; Thomas Hendry; Jeff Barr, ‘77.

G. Wallace & Son, retailers in coal, fertilizers and
farm supplies near Charlotte, N.C., died in August
1979 in Annandale, Va.

1937

FRANCIS DONNELL CREW, a land developer and
construction executive, died Dec. 23, 1979. He
lived on Nantmeal Hunt Farm in Glenmoore, Pa.
At one time in his career, Crew was president of
Airkem of Philadelphia, Crew-Hartz Corp., Wil-
mington Construction Co., and Amos Land Corp.

1940

JACKSON CALVERT JONES, formerly the bankruptcy
judge with the United States Bankruptcy Court in
Kansas City, Mo., died Nov. 18, 1979. Before
becoming a referee in bankruptcy in Kansas City
in 1966, Jones had served as a member of the
Missouri State Senate. Jones was also an avid
golfer.

PAUL GUERRANT MORRISON JR., formerly a pro-
fessor at Florida State University and more recently
a professor of philosophy at State University Col-
lege at Brockport, N.Y., died March 28, 1978.
Morrison had attained his Ph.D. in philosophy in
1954 from the University of Chicago.

194]
RICHARD CHARLES DANAHY, a real estate broker
in North Palm Beach, Fla., died Nov. 9, 1979.
Danahy was engaged primarily in commercial and
residential real estate and especially in a develop-
ment known as Lost Tree Village.

1944

ALBERT FISCHER BREITUNG died in Lynchburg,
Va., on Dec. 1, 1979. He was manager of sales for
Terrell E. Moseley Inc., an air conditioning and
heating firm. Breitung was a member of the
Lynchburg Kiwanis Club and First Presbyterian
Church.

1945

Roy DRAKE WITTE SR., owner of Yacht’s Inc. in
Annapolis, Md., died Jan. 7, 1980. Witte was rec-
ognized nationally as an outstanding sales executive
in the field of computers and word processing
machines. He served as a consultant to numerous
nationwide corporations in setting up computer
systems. He was active in the yacht brokerage and
charter fields until his death. Wounded in combat
in World War II, he was a member of the Military
Order of the Purple Heart and was awarded the
Air Force Medal with clusters for his service as a
navigator.

1956

DONNIE LYON COLTON, a sales representative
with Minnesota Mining Mfg. Co., died Oct. 5,
1979, in Stillwater, Minn.

 

Spring Sports Schedule

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
May
May
May
May
May
May
May
June

 

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

 

Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
May

Mar.

 

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Mar.

Mar.
Mar.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

Lacrosse

8—Mt. Washington
15—Syracuse
22—N.C. State
24—Air Force
29—Towson State
2—Virginia Tech
19—Virginia
23—Duke
26— Washington College
30—U. of Baltimore
3—Rutgers
6—Roanoke
10—North Carolina
17—Hofstra
21—NCAA Quarterfinals
24—NCAA Semi-Finals
31—NCAA Finals
14—North-South Game

Track and Field

7—Roanoke, Liberty Baptist

15—Davidson

22—Richmond Relays

28—Emory & Henry,
Newport News

1—Christopher Newport,

Eastern Mennonite

18—Lynchburg, Roanoke,

Eastern Mennonite

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away
HOME

Away
HOME

Away
HOME

Away

TBA
TBA

Cornell U.

HOME

Away
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME

Away

26—ODAC Championship Roanoke, Va.

2—Bridgewater

Baseball

12—Longwood

14— West Virginia Tech
15—West Virginia Tech
18—Baptist Bible
19—Allegheny
20—Bridgewater
22—Randolph-Macon
26—Emory & Henry
29—Lock Haven
31—Slippery Rock
14— Longwood
15—Lynchburg
16—Hampden-Sydney
17—Bridgewater
19—Eastern Mennonite

Away

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME

Away

HOME

HOME
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
Away

 

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
May

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
May
May

22—Lynchburg

HOME

26—ODAC Tournament Lynchburg, Va.

29—Newport News
30—Newport News
3—VMI

Golf

18—Bridgewater, Shepherd

20—Longwood

-21—Lynchburg

28—George Washington

17—Bridgewater, Shepherd
21—ODAC Championship

24—-Hampden-Sydney,
Randolph-Macon
29—Roanoke
2—Roanoke

HOME
HOME
HOME

Away
HOME
HOME
HOME

Away

Away

Away
HOME
Away

6—Bridgewater, Randolph-Macon,

Radford

May 12- NCAA Division III
16—Championships Des Moines, Iowa

 

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr. 25-

Apr.
May

Tennis

8—Rochester

9—Penn State
14—West Chester State
15—George Mason
16—Old Dominion
17—James Madison
19—Richmond
23—Maryland
24—-George Washington
26—Radford
27—William & Mary
29—High Point
30—Charleston
31—Brown

1—North Carolina
13—Georgia Tech
15—Stetson
17—Rollins
18—Eckerd
22—Hampden-Sydney
23—Davidson

26—
28 Virginia
4—Virginia Tech

May 15- NCAA Division III
17—Championships _— Claremont, Calif.

ODAC Championship
Lynchburg, Va.
Hot Springs, Va.

HOME

HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away
Away
HOME.

Away

 

The Alumni Magazine of

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Wy.

 

as

<

CS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

