Pr nteeee, Mind | 7 MN

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university

$1.5-MILLION GIFT HONORS CHARLES HOWARD PARMLY

JANUARY 1975

 

McCORMICK LIBRARY
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNM
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 24450

 

378,755
W 3) Valu

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 50, Number 1, January 1975

Witttam ©. Washpiin, “40... 560 oe Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Robert §. Keete, .’68...............0.60.05.c5. Associate Editor
Mrs. poyoe Carter... 6. Editorial Assistant

W. Patrick Hinely, ’73
em NIM ee eae. a. Photographers

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Sli Mien: Parmly Gilt) oe ]
Pore Taal oo ica teed 2
Gnaties Howard Parmly . ........0.000000.00e 3
Teachers/Research Scientists 0.00.0... 7

Gift Honors Dr. Smith 0. 000. 12

IDR “HOMOLeesS. ....../.. cin 14

Princeton’ Club Offer) 0.000000 ua 16

Homer Holt, An Obituary .......:.......0.......23 18

Chapter News oo... rr 19

Class Notes 2000000000 a 20

In Memoriam. .oo0o ol 27

Spring Sports Schedule 2.0.00... 0.00000... Inside Back

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postl-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001. (Application pending
for change of frequency.)

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.
President

RICHARD D. HAyYNEs, ’58, Dallas, Texas
Vice President

C. Royce HoueGu, 59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

THomMas B. Brancu, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darby, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
SAMUEL B. HOLLIs, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
"THEODORE M. Kerr, 57, Midland, Texas
CourTNEY R. MaAuzy, JR., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
CuHart-Es C. STEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. Tuomas ToucutTon, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

- ——_~<
o<_) 2

ON THE COVER: A portrait of Charles Howard
Parmly, whose daughter, Miss Ruth Parmly of New
York City, has made a gift of $1.5 million to the
University's endowment. In recognition of the
gift, the University has named its physics, en-
gineering, and biology building Parmly Hall and
will formally dedicate the building to the memory
of Prof. Parmly in a ceremony this year. Stories
dealing with the gift begin on Page 1.

 

 

ai = 2: 1976

ee SS gee ee

 

     
  
   
  
  
  
 

oward Parmly.

 
 
  

 

gift w will

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

A $1. 5-million gift to the endowment of Washington |
ad Lee has a made a Miss > Ruth  Parmly of New ©

In recognition of the aie the 2 University has named ae
YT 1d y building | Parmly |
n until now simply |

 

demic _programs in en
| of excellence as a teaching institution and
~ - 2 ee century-long_ commitment | to strength
0 ‘Wasl ington and. nt |

O- | . sciences.
Gyear ee and —

  

| of F Washington and Lee University, with grateful | _

oa hearts and deep- respect, names the ‘Univers tys foo
_ physics, engineering, and biology building Charles | to

| Howard Pam: Hall and ee as structure — |
|e to his ‘memory.

 

A RESOLUTION -

Once ina 1 very” great while, Washington. and co

| Lee University is touched by an act of generosity |
~and devotion so extraordinary | that its impact up |
| lifts the institution | both physically and spiritually. po -

| 7 | Miss Ruth Parmly's s ei of pee 5 million, which \ we ve a
an. 20 by President | acknowledee with. ;

| tee is cle arl

   

 
   

 

Tt is es f

 

   
 
 

 
 
 

ciate, the r name ‘of Parmly with ¢ our ow.

    
      
    

Thus be it ‘rewlued that, at ‘The Board of :

   

 
 
 

“The Board of Trustees 7
| Washington and Lee. Univer yo fo
a 7 I, I ae 5 7 2 a

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

braries, offices and extensive research laboratory facili-
ties. Aided by a number of important gifts and grants,
including a $250,000 grant from the Alfred P. Sloan
Foundation in 1968 to strengthen science instruction
and facilities, Washington and Lee provides education
in the sciences unusual in scope and quality, as well as
in the sophistication of its equipment for undergraduate
instruction.

Among the University’s science majors are programs
leading to the bachelor’s degree in physics alone and in
engineering in combination with either physics or chem-
istry. Special combined programs leading to the bache-
lor’s and master’s degrees in engineering are available in
cooperation with Columbia University—where Prof.
Parmly received his graduate education—and with Rens-
selaer Polytechnic Institute and the Massachusetts In-
stitute of ‘Technology.

In addition to the announcement of Miss Parmly’s
gift at the Founders’ Day ceremonies, a special an-
nouncement of the gift was made to the Achievement
Council, the volunteer leadership organization which
has responsibility for realizing the University’s develop-
ment goals, by President Huntley and John M. Stem-
mons of Dallas, chairman of the Council. Stemmons is
president of Industrial Properties Corp. and has been
a Washington and Lee ‘Trustee since 1965.

‘Miss Parmly’s gift springs from a great and gen-
erous heart,” Stemmons said. “It will make an impor-
tant difference in Washington and Lee’s future financial

strength, and it comes as a most encouraging endorse-
ment of the University’s continuing development, its
character and its quality.”

It was through a member of the Council—Joseph C.
Broadus, senior vice president of The Petroleum Corp.
of Delaware and representative of the Achievement
Council in New York City—that Washington and Lee
came to Miss Parmly’s attention again. Though there
had been no direct connection between the Parmly
family and Washington and Lee, Miss Parmly learned
as a child of a bequest to the University by Mr. and
Mrs. Robert Parker Doremus. Mrs. Doremus’ sister, Mrs.
William Green, was a friend of Miss Parmly’s mother.

The Doremuses likewise had never been connected
with Washington and Lee, when in 1913 on a visit to
Virginia they stopped at the University and were greet-
ed by an unidentified student who offered to escort
them about the campus. They were so impressed by the
student’s gentlemanliness and friendly manner that,
upon their return to New York, they arranged that on
their deaths their estate should come to Washington
and Lee.

After Mr. Doremus’ death later in 1913, his widow
gave funds to Washington and Lee for construction of
a gymnasium as a memorial to her husband. (Doremus
Gymnasium, greatly expanded and renovated in 1972,
remains the center of the University’s athletic facilities.)
When Mrs. Doremus died in 1936, the estate amounted
to $1.5 million.

Parmly Hall: The finest science facilities

Parmly Hall—the new name of Washington and Lee’s
“new science building’’—is a showcase for undergraduate
teaching and research facilities in physics, physics-en-
gineering and _ biology.

The four-story structure is, of course, in perfect har-
mony with Washington and Lee’s traditional modified-
Greek Revival architectural style. On the inside, though,
Parmly Hall provides facilities that are anything but
simple and classical.

The largest single academic building on campus,
Parmly Hall contains two complete science libraries

2

(one in physics, one in biology), three lecture rooms,
several class laboratory rooms fully equipped with ap-
paratus for each student, offices and private research
labs for each of the 11 teachers in the building, and
several small labs for student use.

The physics department—whose observatory is lo-
cated atop Howe Hall, the adjacent “old” science build-
ing—maintains an astronomy museum in Parmly Hall,
a principal exhibit in which is General Lee’s “orrery,”
the 3l-gear planetarium purchased in 1868 and still
used for instruction today (it indicates the relative posi-

ee cmt Wh ct i ee

 

——_, Le

 

 

 

 

Parmly Gift

 

 

 

 

Parmly Hall, the largest academic building
on campus, is located next to Howe Hall
(at right above). Reid Hall—old engineering-
physics building, now home of Department
of Journalism and Communications—is
visible to south of Parmly Hall (left center
in photo).

Photo at left shows Parmly Hall from cupola
of Washington Hall looking northwest. At
lower right is Tucker Hall; perpendicular
to Parmly Hall is Howe Hall. Note physics
department's observatory (white half-sphere)
atop Howe.

Parmly Gift

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

Right: Dr. William E. Bryant, assistant pro-
fessor of biology, at work in Parmly Hall
greenhouse, important laboratory facility for
botanical instruction and _ research.

Below: student at control panel of “OWL,”
physics department’s computer. Students and
professors designed all solid-state circuitry
for power supply, programming, input, dis-
play-panel and printout components.

Below right: Charles Howard Parmly, found-
er and first professor of school of engineer-
ing at City College of New York, whose
daughter, Miss Ruth Parmly, made a $1.5
million gift to endowment of Washington
and Lee in his memory.

 

 

 

PRR ETRE REE Ree ee ROD

 

SOHSPCSROSCH COCO SES ESERT*

 
 

ee, wf
© @8eee

 
 

 

 

 

 

  

Ives by st
tolerant (as. an en |

Parmly Gift

 

 

ae

i

Pl

riage

 

BE eae

GERD RABE SD Bie

 

Above: Dr. Edward F. Turner, Jr., head
of the physics department, at General Lee’s
“orrery’ in physics department museum.
The 107-year-old instrument follows earth,
moon, and nearby planets through a year
with precise duplications of orbits, relative
position, speed and inclination of each.
(Brass globe in the center is the “sun.”

Left: Physics library in Parmly Hall gives
ready access to journals and reference ma-
terials, aiding students and _ teachers in
their scholarly work. Biology department
maintains a similar Parmly Hall library.

 

 

 

-

y

“in his breadth of view, and

larger me

many of us
the ordeal of
fessor pt

Oo .

oe
=

Perhaps now! ere 1
= the effects of the

ly) of the naive

ao
”
=

 

 

 

 

ing important discoveries about the ways kidneys per-
form their filtering functions. It doesn’t really matter
when you visit, because there’s nearly always somebody
there; teaching and research aren’t 9-to-5 jobs. You'll
find your scientist hosts to be intense about their work,
yet eager to discuss it—and to make it comprehensible to
a layman. Their occasional exhilaration is infectious
when they have overcome some persistent, annoying
obstacle at last or have just had some particularly diffi-
cult and exacting experiment succeed.

Visit with men like Ed Turner, head of the physics
department. His own research interests range from li-
brary technology (he’s been a consultant in that field to
the Ford Foundation and the Office of Education, and is
the author of a federally supported study of the im-
plications of technology on small-college libraries). He
earned two bachelor’s degrees from Washington and
Lee, a master’s from M.I.T., and the Ph.D. from Vir-
ginia. He’s a teacher first: though he is department
head, he chooses to teach introductory physics as well
as advanced courses in astronomy, electronics and elec-
tricity.

He presides over the “OWL,” an acronym for “Oracle
of Washington and Lee’’—a computer that was discarded
by the Defense Department three years ago (it used to
repose in the nosecone of a Minuteman missile). Dr.
Turner and his students spent enormous amounts of
their “spare” time, including summers, adapting the
nosecone computer for physics research. They developed
and installed the overwhelmingly complex circuitry
necessary to serve their purposes—even to the point of
designing and making their own printed circuits.

The result? “OWL” is now being used to “control”
an ongoing experiment to measure beta rays emitted by
a lead isotope, Pb*!°, and to plot the variable char-
acteristics of transistors to enable assembly of extremely
sophisticated circuits. What used to be an afternoon's
work is now completed by the computer in one minute.

The University has received five more of the dis-
carded Minuteman computers from the Defense Depart-
ment, and one of them is on the verge of being put into
service by Dr. Robert Brownell, assistant engineering
professor. In adapting “his” nosecone computer, he has
drawn heavily on Dr. Turner’s experience, and the
newer version will be even more sophisticated than the

8

“OWL.” Dr. Brownell plans to conduct control-theory
research with the new computer, programming it to
issue orders, react to various phenomena and modify the
experiment, record and even “interpret” data, and print
the results.

Just across the hall, you’re likely to find Dr. Harry
T. Williams, Jr., assistant physics professor, working
with holography—laser-beam photography which records
a three-dimensional image on a two-dimensional glass
plate. (Look at a hologram, and you can actually see
behind things when you move around.) You'll see Dr.
W. Barlow Newbolt, perhaps completing a research
paper on ways to neutralize the electrical charge on the
body of a spacecraft, or working on a Robert E. Lee Re-
search Project with his student research associates on
their electron spectroscopy investigations (measuring
the electron spectrum to ascertain characteristics of
radiation and atomic structure).

You'll find engineering students under Prof. Henry
Ravenhorst and other teachers at work on such prob-
lems as the physical properties of materials used in ma-
chines and structures. You'll see them investigating
static and dynamic mechanics—the physics-based study of
equilibrium, structural forces, inertia, vibration, “ki-
netics” (force, mass, acceleration, work, energy). You'll
see them applying principles of engineering graphics
to actual problems: environment and design, site plan-
ning, and the like.

Listen at the door of a classroom, and you'll hear
of vector calculus and the covariant formulation of
electrodynamics and particle motion in external fields;
the kinematics of nuclear reactions and_black-body
radiation; the Zeeman effect and the Millikan oil drop.

Stop upstairs in the biology area of Parmly Hall. |

Odds are you'll find Dr. Cleveland P. Hickman, Jr., in
his office or in one of the labs he’s using for his research
into the permeability—the filtration capability—of the
kidney. If he’s in his office, he’s likely to be working on
a book or an article. He’s the co-author, with his moth-
er and father (both professors of biology at DePauw
University) of the textbook Integrated Principles of Zo-
ology, now in its fifth edition. With his father he’s writ-
ten Biology of Animals, which they’re now revising for a
second edition; he’s just completed a new edition of his
lab manual Physiology with a former colleague at the

 

 

 

 

CORN Sane Mitr eemtt tpt

 

i

Parmly Gift

 

      

Above left: Dr. Harry T. Williams, assistant
physics professor, with glass holographic
plate. Laser beam (from white instrument in
front of Dr. Williams) will make visible a
three-dimensional image on plate.

Above right: Dr. Gary H. Dobbs III, assis-
tant biology professor, works with student in
laboratory analysis of cell tissue.

Left: Prof. Henry Ravenhorst, head of en-
gineering department, and a student solve
complex engineering problem using prin-
ciples of orthographic projection.

 

Parmly Gift

 

Left: Dr. Cleveland P. Hickman, biology
professor, preparing specimens for analysis as
part of his research into filtering character-
istics Of flounder kidney.

Below left: Students at work in physics-en-
gineering lab.

 

Below right: Dr. James J. Donaghy (center),
associate professor of physics, directs stu-
dents in laboratory experiment in electro-
magnetism.

 

 

“research on which futu

tants—is investigatii
um, Escherichia coli, f
_ He’s focusing on the series
in the chromoso

up!
ly.” a

 

 

Smith Richardson Foundation gift

honors Dr. Henry Louis Smith

The Smith Richardson Founda-
tion of Greensboro, N. C., has made
a $50,000 grant to Washington and
Lee to establish an endowed. teach-
ing fund in the field of journalism.
The gift honors the memory of the
late Dr. Henry Louis Smith, presi-
dent of the University from 1912 to
1929. Re-establishment of college-
level instruction in journalism was
one of Dr. Smith’s chief interests
while he was president of W&L.

The teaching fund, which bears
Dr. Smith’s name, will provide sup-
port for W&L’s general educational
programs in journalism. It will en-
able the University to expand its
Visiting-speaker activities in the field
and help meet the costs of buying
essential instructional equipment.

The grant was announced by I. M.
Scott of Meadowbrook, Pa., a Uni-
versity ‘Trustee and chairman of the
Foundation Committee of the Uni-
versitys Achievement Council, the
group of volunteers that is spearhead-
ing the University’s effort to raise
$36 million by 1976.

University President Robert E. R.
Huntley called attention to the grant
at the Founders’ Day-Lee’s Birthday-
ODK convocation on Jan. 20.

“Dr. Smith made a distinguished
record as head of this University,”
Huntley said, ‘‘and he surely qualifies
as one of our founders. One of the
enduring contributions he made to
Washington and Lee was his success
in introducing instruction in jour-
nalism, a revival of the idea first ad-
vanced by General Lee.”

President Huntley introduced
members of Dr. Smith’s family who
were special guests at the convoca-
tion. ‘They were two sons, Dr. Norris

12

Smith, a 1929 graduate of W&L, and
now a physician in Greensboro, and
Frank Smith, a 1932 graduate, who
is vice president of the North Caro-
lina National Bank in Greensboro;
and a daughter-in-law, Mrs. Raymond
D. Smith, whose late husband gradu-
ated from W&L in 1922 and was an
officer of the Vick’s Chemical Co. of
New York. Mrs. Smith now lives in
Lexington and is a hostess in Lee
Chapel. Her son, Raymond, Jr., is a
1955 graduate of W&L and is now
a vice president of Bankers ‘Trust Co.
of New York.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith was presi-
dent of Davidson College before ac-
cepting the presidency of Washing-
ton and Lee. He remembered that
General Lee while he was president
of Washington College had proposed
in 1869 the creation of a journalism
deparment—the first time such train-
ing had ever been suggested at any
college in America. At the time, the
idea was considered _ radical:
the editor of the New York
Post, for instance, dismissed the idea
publicly as “an absurdity.” After
Lee’s death in 1870, the journalism
program lapsed and was abandoned
in 1878.

Dr. Smith was determined to res-
urrect the idea and eventually per-
suaded the Southern Newspaper
Publishers Association to assume re-
sponsibility for financing the depart-
ment. The Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation was established for this
purpose, and by 1925 sufficient en-
dowment had been raised—substan-
tially through a gift of $10,500 from
Mrs. Lunsford Richardson, sister of
Dr. Smith—to enable the University
to re-establish its journalism depart-

 

Dr. Henry Louis Smith

ment. The Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation continues to support a
broad journalism-education program.
The Smith endowment fund will pro-
vide added support for the depart-
ment’s six-year-old radio operation,
WLUR-FM, which has increased its
power output from 10 to 175 watts
and added stereo capability this
year. The department also has com-
plete closed-circuit television produc-
tion facilities and also operates a
laboratory press with hot and cold
typesetting facilities and letterpress
and offset printing equipment.

Abe D. Jones, Jr., a 1951 journa-
lism graduate of W&L and now edi-
tor of the Greensboro Record, noted
in a recent column how the Smith
Richardson Foundation gift revives
and strengthens “an old network of
relationships” between Washington
and Lee and Greensboro. He recalled
that Dr. Henry Louis Smith was of-
ten a visiting teacher and preacher
at Greensboro’s First Presbyterian
Church—the church Dr. Smith’s fath-
er, a native of the Lexington area,
served as pastor for 38 years and his
brother for another nine years. He
recalled, too, that Dr. Smith was re-
sponsible for Dr. Charles F. Myers’
becoming pastor of the Greensboro
church. Dr. Smith recommended
Myers after hearing him preach at
the University as a young man in
1916. “Dr. Charlie’ served the
Greensboro church until his retire-
ment from the pulpit in 1945.

Jones summed up: “The Smith
grant is in the tradition of both the
old era and the new. ... And the
stant will preserve in tangible form
that longstanding link between
Greensboro and Lexington.”

oon

 

 

 

Above: Dr. Norris Smith, ’29, Frank
Smith, ’32, and Mrs. Raymond D.
Smith are recognized at Founders’
Day Convocation.

Left: Workman dangles from a
crane high above Reid Hall in the
process of installing WLUR-FM’s
new stereo antenna.

13

ODK taps five professional men:
scholarship honors its founders

Five outstanding professional men
—four of them alumni of Washing-
ton and Lee and one a chief adminis-
trative officer of the University—were
“tapped” into honorary membership
in Omicron Delta Kappa, the na-
tional leadership society founded at
the University 61 years ago.

At the same “tap day’ ceremonies
on Jan. 20, ODK inducted 15 under-
graduates and five law students in
recognition of their leadership on
campus. The fraternity recognizes
outstanding achievement in scholar-
ship, public service, the creative arts,
athletics, and publications.

The four alumni recognized for
their professional achievements were
Barton W. Morris, Jr., publisher of
the Roanoke Times and World-News;
Marion G. Heatwole, general coun-
sel for U. S. Steel Corp.; Joseph C.
Broadus, senior vice president of The
Petroleum Corp. of Delaware and
former vice president of Chase Man-
hattan Bank; and Emmett W. Poin-
dexter, a prominent New York City
lawyer and a leader in W&L alumni
activities in New York for 50 years.

The University administrator hon-
ored for his leadership abilities was
James W. Whitehead, University
treasurer and secretary of the Board
of ‘Trustees.

Morris is a 1943 graduate of W&L.
He has been associated with the
Roanoke newspapers since 1946, fol-
lowing his service with the Army Air
Corps, and was executive editor of
the newspapers before being named
publisher.

Heatwole earned his bachelor’s de-
gree at Washington and Lee in 1941
and his law degree in 1946. A veter-
an of the Navy during World War II,

14

Joseph C. Broadus

he joined the legal staff at U.S. Steel
in 1946. He is a member of the
University’s Achievement Council,
the volunteer group responsible for
realizing the University’s develop-
ment goals for the 1970s.

Broadus received his bachelor’s
degree from W&L in 1930. He began
his banking career in Nashville,
Tenn., and served in the Navy dur-
ing World War II, attaining the
rank of lieutenant commander. He
was instrumental in bringing Wash-
ington and Lee again to the atten-
tion of Miss Ruth Parmly of New
York City, whose $1.5-million gift
to the University’s endowment was
announced at the “tapping’’ cere-
monies. Broadus is also a member
of the Achievement Council.

Poindexter received his bachelor’s
degree from W&L in 1920 and his law

 

 

Emmett W. Poindexter

degree three years later. He is a part-
ner in the New York City law firm of
Poindexter & Borland, and because
of his enthusiastic leadership among
alumni in the area he has been nick-
named by common consent ‘Mr.
Washington and Lee” in New York.

Whitehead has been a member of
the Washington and Lee administra-
tion since 1958. He is a graduate of
the University of Tampa and _ holds
an honorary doctorate from that in-
stitution. Before coming to W&L, he
was public relations director at Tam-
pa, national finance director of the
National Conference of Christians
and Jews, and executive director of
the Empire State Foundation of In-
dependent Liberal Arts Colleges. At
W&L, he is curator of the Univer.
sity’s priceless Reeves Collection of
Chinese Export Porcelain and co.

 

Barton W. Morris, Jr.

ordinator of the University’s many-
faceted Bicentennial program.

The third-year law © students
“tapped” by ODK were Charles J.

James W. Whitehead

Brown of Lexington; Ray V. Hart-
well, III, of Jacksonville, Ala.; W.
Henry Jernigan, Jr., of Cincinnati;
John C. Sheldon of Upper Montclair,

 

The ODK “tap day” ceremonies
also brought the announcement that
a new scholarship fund honoring the
15 founders of ODK has reached the
full level of funding.

The ODK Scholarship will be
awarded to the student “whose cam-
pus leadership exemplifies the ideals”
of the society—leadership and service
based on concern for one’s fellow
man, both in college and in society.

ODK, founded at W&L in 1914,
now has chapters on more than 100
college campuses. Only two of the
founders are still living. They are Dr.
James E. Bear, Jr., of Harrisonburg,

 

Pees

Scholarship Honors ODK Founders

Va., a retired professor at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond,
and Rupert N. Latture, who taught
politics at W&L from 1920 to 1962
and continues to work full time as
an assistant in the President’s office.

The other founders were William
Moseley Brown, Carl Shaffer Daniel-
son, Edward Parks Davis, Edward A.
Donahue, De La Warr Benjamin Eas-
ter, James Carl Fisher, Philip Pendle-
ton Gibson, Thomas McPheeters Glas-
gow, David Carlisle Humphreys, John
Eppes Martin, William Caufield Raf-
tery, John Purver Richardson, Jr., and
Henry Louis Smith.

 

 

 

Marion G. Heatwole

N. J.; and Jeffrey L. Willis of Flag-
staff, Ariz.

Undergraduate seniors inducted
were Matthew J. Calvert of Lynch-
burg, Va.; Robert H. Crawford of
Dallas; David J. DeChristopher of
Maumee, Ohio; Guy H. Kerr of Dal-
las; Lawrence F. Lyles of Spartan-
burg, S. C.; Robert G. Morecock of
Virginia Beach; Thomas O. Rainey,
III, of Dinwiddie, Va.; William H.
Sturges of Charlotte, N. C.; J. Bow-
man Williams of Dallas, and Robert
Q. Wyckoff, Jr., of West Palm Beach,
Fla.

Undergraduate juniors “tapped”
were John G. Berry of Madison, Va.:
J. Michael Luttig of Tyler, Texas;
Leland G. McCullough, III, of
Shreveport, La.; Robert G. Pugh, Jr.,
of Shreveport; and Kenneth P. Rus-
cio of Lincroft, N. J.

15

 

 

W&L men

 

are offered

 

associate

 

membership
in the
Princeton Club

 

 

 

Washington and Lee alumni are being offered the op-
portunity to become associate members of the Prince-
ton Club of New York. Associate members enjoy all of
the privileges the club offers and have full use of the
club’s extensive and conveniently located facilities at
15 West 43rd Street.

And the price is right!

If as many as 25 or more Washington and Lee alum-
ni, faculty members, and administrative staff members
sign up within a period of 90 days, the regular $250 en-
trance fee will be eliminated for them. The only cost
to the initial group will be the annual dues, payable
annually or quarterly. Thereafter, W&L applicants will
be charged an entrance fee amounting to 20 per cent of
the annual dues applicable to their category of as-
sociate membership.

The Princeton Club provides all of the services of
a superior hotel, plus squash and athletic facilities, lock-
er rooms, private dining rooms, a well stocked library,
lounge areas, special club activities, and other conveni-
ences, including nearby parking at reduced rates. The
club’s bedroom charges and incidental fees are much
less expensive for club members than at comparable
commercial hotels. Bona fide guests of W&L associate

16

members, which may include women, are also accorded
these privileges.

Qualifications and categories of associate member-
ship available to W&L people are as follows:

RESIDENT —Resides in or has a principal place of
business within the limits of New York City (five
boroughs). Junior: A resident who is 35 years of age or
under—Annual cost: $270.00; Quarterly cost: $67.50.
Senior: A resident over 35 years of age—Annual cost:
$378.00; Quarterly cost: $94.50.

SUBURBAN-—Lives within a 50-mile radius (as the
crow flies), but not within the limits of New York City:
Annual cost: $270.00; Quarterly cost: $67.50.

NON-RESIDENT-—Lives beyond a 50-mile radius of
New York City (as the crow flies): Annual cost: $194.40;
Quarterly cost: $48.60.

EDUCATIONAL—A full time professor, instruc-
tor, or a member of the administrative staff: An-
nual cost: $135.00; Quarterly cost: $33.75.

The above rates include the 8 per cent New York
tax.

Arrangements for W&L associate memberships in
the Princeton Club were made by the W&L Alumni
Chapter in New York in cooperation with the Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Board of Directors. The New
York Chapter has unanimously endorsed the program
and intends to make the Princeton Club its principal
place of social activity and some other chapter func-
tions. James O. Mathews, ’70, and Paul W. Perkins, ’74,
of the New York Chapter handled the negotiations in
New York; they were assisted by Richard D. Haynes,
58, of Dallas, vice president of the Alumni Board.

Over the years it became evident that W&L alumni
could not, because of the heavy expense involved, es-
tablish or construct a club of their own in New York.
But the New York Chapter and the Alumni Board con-
tinued to look for practical ways of making club facili-
ties available to W&L people living, working, or visiting
New York. After investigating affiliation with various
existing clubs, the New York Chapter and the Alumni
Board decided that associate membership in the Prince-
ton Club offered the best arrangement.

The Princeton Club was completed in 1963 and is
one of the most modern and well equipped club facilj-
ties in the country. Its location at 15 West 43rd Street,

yp

 

just west of Fifth Avenue, is central to midtown Man-

-hattan’s business and cultural activities. The new office
buildings along the Avenue of the Americas are just
around the corner, and the club is convenient to Grand
Central and Penn Stations, the shopping and theater dis-
tricts, Madison Square Garden, and the Lincoln Cen-
ter for the Performing Arts. Two parking garages on
43rd Street just west of the club offer members conveni-
ence and reduced rates. |

A major part of the club’s facilities is devoted | to
food and beverage services. There are three restaurant —

dining rooms, the Tiger bar, an oyster bar, a cocktail
_ lounge, and nine private dining rooms. All 48 of the
~ club’s bedrooms are air-conditioned and have private
baths and color television. The club has three champion-
ship singles squash courts, exercise gym, and sauna,
with lockers available on a monthly or annual basis. The
library on the fifth floor contains over 8,000 books and
periodicals. There are several lounge areas for men and
women.

All interested WoL people who gualify { jor associate
membership in the Princeton Club should make applica-
tion immediately. Remember that if 25 or more sign
up within the 90-day period the entrance fee will be
waived for this initial group. Use the order form below
to request application blank and further information.
Clip and mail to: CLUB PROGRAM, Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

 

 

       
    

 

 

 

New York
Coliseum

 

 

J-— 57TH STREET —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—— 43RD STREET ——

 

#— 42ND STREET— _-

 

CLUB PROGRAM

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
_ Lexington, Virginia 24450
Yes, I would like to apply for associate member-

ship in the Princeton Club of New York. Please send |

me an application form and quote the dues rate ap

plicable to me. | |

LI}

Port
Authority
Bus
Terminal

 

 

 

 

 

34TH STREET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Name bee e eee e eee eee eee eee eee eeeee Cee meee merece eee e ence eee ec eee e eee eee sree eeeneee :
Birth Date See eee e ee eee eee eee tet e ee eee W8L Class Date Seen eee :
- ARAB DD cece tree rere reer eer eer rere rer ener eters e rte eee seeseeereseeeeeeseeseesenesee »
To Zi
ee 1p See eee ee eee
: Business Addr ess ee wee meee meee eee gg ete teem eee eee eee eee Heer reer nese reer ee eenses
4b
a a - 7 7 Sn a
/ / / : . / /
THE CLUB’S CONVENIENT . cer eeeseee ss uo aves se mr eee nes Seseeeseeees ip prt es ee es

 

LOCATION AND ACCESSIBILITY

 

 

 

Homer Adams (Rocky) Holt, a
Trustee Emeritus of Washington and
Lee and 20th Governor of West Vir-
ginia, died Jan. 16 in a Charleston,
W.Va., hospital. He would have been
77 on March 1.

Gov. Holt was closely associated
with Washington and Lee throughout
his adult life. Born in Lewisburg, W.
Va., in 1898, he received his under-
graduate degree from W&L in 1918
and his law degree in 1922. He taught
mathematics at the University from
1920 to 1923 and was an instructor in
the School of Law from 1923 to 1925.

He was named to the University
Board of ‘Trustees in 1940 and served
ably until retiring from the Board
and being named Trustee Emeritus in
1969.

After West Virginia’s
Attorney General for four years, Holt
was Governor from 1937 to 1941. As
Governor, he was confronted by the
trying Depression years and the onset
of World War II. He succeeded in

serving as

 

Homer Holt, Trustee Emeritus, 1898-1975

 

Homer Holt in 1966 photo.

 

bringing about better financing of
public schools, teacher tenure and re-
tirement, and improved fiscal controls
in state government. Except for five
years as general counsel of the Union
Carbide and Carbon Corp. in New
York, Holt practiced law in West Vir-

ginia before and after his eight years
in public office.

He is survived by his wife, two
daughters, a son, and two sisters.

The Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees at its January meeting adopt-
ed the following resolution in_ his
memory:

“To many Homer Holt was known
primarily as a giant in his profession
and as one of the greatest statesmen
in the history of his native state. To
his Alma Mater he was more. As a
student, as a teacher, as a member
of Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees for a quarter of a century,
he gave devotion, unselfish service,
and generous assistance. On count-
less occasions his tough-minded wis-
dom brought guidance to his Univer-
sity, and his devotion to high ideals of
education and principles of integrity
gave it purpose.

“To his fellow Board members he
was a beloved friend. We treasure his
memory—and we shall miss him.”

 

 

Chapter Correspondents

Appalachian—Jimmy D. Bowie, ’56, 714 Arl-
ington Avenue, Bristol, Va. 24201

Arkansas—William C. Norman, Jr., ’56, P. O.
Drawer 597, Crossett, Ark. 71635

Atlanta—Nathan V. Hendricks, III, ’66, Red-
fern, Butler and Morgan, Fulton National
Bk. Bldg., Suite 1300, Atlanta, Ga. 30303

Augusta-Rockingham—William B. Gunn, 42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801

Baltimore—Carroll S. Klingelhofer, III, ’65,
102 West Pennsylvania Avenue, Towson,
Md. 21204

Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr., ’63, 15
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213

Charleston—Louie A, Paterno, Jr., ’65, 1401
Somerlayton Road, Charleston, W. Va. 25314

Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, ’52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, N.C. 28207

Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ’51,. Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga. Tenn. 37402

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, III, ’62, One First
National Plaza, Rm. 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60603

Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer ’63, 10813 Music
Street, Newbury, Ohio 44065

Cumberland Valley—J. Oakley Seibert, 68,
P.O. Box 707, Martinsburg, W.Va. 25401

Danville—Dr. Robert H, Mauck, ’50, 15 Cleve-
land Avenue, Martinsville Va. 24112

Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
'63, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley, Jr., "58, Law,
Snakard, Brown and Gambill, Fort Worth
National Bk. Bldg., Fort Worth, Tx. 76102

Gulf Stream—A. J. Barranco, '64, Suite 1004
Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,
Fla. 33130

Houston—William B. Ogilvie, Jr., '64, 7519
Del Monte, Houston, Texas 77042

18

Jacksonville—Willis M. Ball, ’69, Alex Brown
and Sons, Barnett Bk. Bldg., Rm. 1505, Jack-
sonville, Fla. 32202

Kansas City—William N. Leedy, '49, 814
Westover Road, Kansas City. Mo. 64113

Louisville—Henry H. Knight, II, ’68, Johns-
ton, Brown, Burnett and Knight, Inc., 425
South 5th Street, Louisville, Ky. 40202

Lynchburg—Edward R. Feinman, ’49, Attor-
ney at Law, First and Merchants Bk. Bldg.,
Lynchburg, Va. 24504

Mid-South—Jerome Turner, '64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis. Tenn. 38117

Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr., ’64, 204 Walsh-
wood, Mobile, Ala. 36604

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, ’33, 2134 Rose-
mont Drive, Montgomery, Ala. 36111

New England—cC. Frederick Bent, ’66, Boston
Personal Resources, One Boston Place, Bos-
ton, Mass. 02114

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, ’68, 118
Central Park Place, New Orleans, La. 70124

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ’16,
Drawer 60, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840 ;

New York—James O. Mathews, ’70, 1st Nat’l
City Bk., 399 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
10022

Norfolk—Peter A. Agelasto, III, ’62, 1300
United Va. Bk. Bldg’. Norfolk, Va. 23510
North Texas—David Carothers, ’61, 5532 Park
Lane, Dallas, Texas 75220

Northern California—Paul R. Speckman, Jr.,
57, 1568 Lilac Lane, Mountain View, Cali-
fornia 94040

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., ’63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-
stein, ’'53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Holly-
wood, Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling,
Dowling, Sanders and Dukes, Box 1027,
Beaufort, S.C. 29902

Peninsula—Dr. B. Voss Neal, ’51, 321 Main
Street, Newport News, Va. 23601

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’63, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Wick Hollingshead, ’61, 338 Bor-
ton Mill Court, Cherry Hill, N.J. 08034

Piedmont—Fred L, Heina, 201 Wachovia
Bldg., Winston-Salem, N. C. 27101

Richmond—Robert E. Payne, ’63, 6808 Park
Avenue, Richmond, Va. 23226

Roanoke—William S. Hubard, "50, Shenan-
doah Life Ins. Co., Roanoke, Va. 24010

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree, III, ’59, PO.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450

San Antonio—Allan G, Paterson, 64, 324
Ridgemont, San Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Andrew W. Baur, ’67, 20 Foxboro,
St. Louis, Mo. 63124

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, ‘41, P.O. Drawer 4106, Station B,
Anderson, S.C. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick
'53, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif, 92702 ’

Southern Ohio—Dr. James W. Priest, ’48, 605
Oakland Ave., Dayton, Ohio 45419

Tulsa—Neal McNeill, ’50, 3724 South Florence
Tulsa, Okla. 74105 ,

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, 43, 507
Crinsberiaael Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—Robert J. Frost, Jr., '68, 3499
Hartford Ave., Silver Springs, Md. 20910

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, "62, 3010
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, 52, Box 3958
Greenville, Wilmington, Delaware 19807

>)

 

 

a
<<
a

a. oy,

fi SP

=
te
g

4 * a { gq : oe : : : * oy

 

Class notes

 

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $66.00 f.o.b.
Lexington, Virginia
Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Immediate shipment
from available stock.

 

 

20

1927

ROBERT E. STEVENSON has retired after 47
years with the Gulf, Mobile and Ohio Rail-
road Co. He was a senior vice president and
resided in Mobile, Ala. He was a director
of the GM&O Railroad, the GM&O Land Co.,
the Terminal Railroad Association of. St.
Louis and the Illinois Terminal Railroad.

Jor W. Pitts, Sr., has retired as chairman
of the board of Brown-Roberts Hardware,
Inc., after 47 years of service. He lives in
Alexandria, La., enjoys good health, an ac-
tive life, and plenty of golf.

1929

TY. WILLIAM HILL, who retired from the
Washington D. C. Star in 1973, has been
named Washington correspondent for Edi-
tor & Publisher magazine. Hill began his
newspaper career with the Mobile, Ala. Press.
He has served as president of the Associ-
ated Press Managing Editors Association.
While a member of the board of directors
of ASNE, Hill made a three-week visit to
the People’s Republic of China in October,

1972,
1930

CHARLES W. COockKE is retired and lives in
Thomasville, Ga., where he remains active
in church work, yard work, and playing
golf. He recently accepted the presidency
of a chapter of the National Association of
Retired Federal Employees.

1932

DAvib GEORGE PRICE is now retired from the
Navy Bureau of Personnel. He serves on a
voluntary basis as a consultant to a nur-
sery school in Bethesda, Md.

1934

FOSTER PALMER, associate university librarian
at Harvard, is retiring after 36 years of
service, primarily in reference work and
computer applications. He continues as edi-
tor for the Cambridge Historical Society.

1935

NoRMAN S. FitzHuGH has retired from ac-
tive CPA practice and is now doing semi-
practice accounting for selected clients.

CHARLES F, Porzic, a salesman for both R. C.
Motor Lines, Inc., of Jacksonville, Fla., and

Eastern Express, Inc., of Terre Haute, Ind.,
has retired and now lives in Upper Mont-
clair, N. as

FRED D. StTRoNG, after having served as con-
troller for two prep schools in New York
City and in New England, has retired and
is currently living in Burton, S. C.

JOHN A. WEBBER is a member of the board
of directors and continues to be active in
sales with Jamison Bedding, Inc., of Nash-
ville, Tenn. He has been with the firm for

35 years.
1936

GEORGE W. HARRISON was named Legion-
naire of the Year, 1974, by Post 60 of the
American Legion. He lives in Henderson,
N.C. and is on the board of directors of
Henderson-Vance Chamber of Commerce.

1937

WILLIAM C. WILBUR, JR., is professor of his-
tory at Eckerd College in St. Petersburg,
Fla. He has served 13 years as chairman of
the Division of History and Social Sciences.

1938

PAUL M. MILLER reported in December to
Santo Domingo, where he will be consul in
charge of the visa section at the American

Embassy.
Pao0

DR. ALEXANDER BLAIN, III, chief surgeon of
Alexander Blain Hospital and also Blain
Clinic in Detroit, has been appointed by
the mayor to the Detroit Zoological Park
Commission. Until 1960, the Blains main-
tained a game preserve on Blain Island in
Oakland County’s Waterford ‘Township.
There they kept and bred a variety of ani-
mals including bison and bears. Dr. Blain
is on the surgical faculty at the Wayne
State Medical School. Recently Dr. Blain
presented a portrait of his father, Dr. Alex-
ander Blain Sr., to the Wayne County Medi-
cal Society. The senior Dr. Blain was presi-
dent of the Society in 1933-34.

1942

WALTER C. ABERG, JR., lives in Cave Creek,
Ariz., where he not only operates gasoline
stations under the name of Carefree Chevron
Services but is also in real estate as a broker
associated with Desert Forest Realty in Lake-
free, Ariz. Aberg also keeps his hand jin jn-

 

  
 
  
  
  
   
 
    
  
   
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  

rrance aS a representative of Tom Jackson
surance Agency in Phoenix.

fter 15 years, WALTER L. MONROE has re-
ed as town commissioner, president of
ymmissioners, secretary, and utilities com-
issioner of Millsboro, Del. He currently
rves as vice chairman of the board of
trustees of Grace Methodist Church.

FORGE ARTHUR WOooLFENDEN is currently
iblisher of the Burroughs Clearing House

den travels a great deal for Burroughs Corp.

tions work for the corporation, Parheularly
‘their international division.

auction warehouse business in ‘Danville, Va.
He also holds joint ownership in Lea Realty
Co. and is a partner in Lea & Pierce Real
Estate. Lea also is vice president of Harry
Lea Volkswagon, Inc., and _ ‘president of
United Enterprisers & Developers. He is cur-

: Hospital,

asting Services,
-kersburg, W. Va. He is chairman of the
Jo Parkersburg Salvation Army Advisory Board,
D a member of the board of Red Cross, a mem-
ber of the Fine Arts Council, and a member

  
    
 
   
 
  
  
   
 
  
  
  
   
 
  

Government Association.

Roser T. VAUGHAN, an attorney in South
Boston, Va., is active in the Virginia Bar

mittee, chairman of the Legal Education
Association.

Lynwood King, ’43, and Carl King, ‘42, (Ben
‘ramer), are completing a residential devel-
pment project in Yonkers, N. Y. known as
‘ocono Country Place. The successful com-
munity includes 50 miles of roads and water
and sewer lines. Kadis reports that ap-
oximately 6 60 per cent of the Project has
en sold. |

ling Co. of Shreveport,’ La., has been

gram manager,
quarters, Air Force Systems Command at
_ Andrews AFB in Washington, D. C. He is

agazine, one of the largest bank and fi-
ncial trade books in the country. Woolfen-

id, for several years, has been in public re-

‘rently a member of the board of trustees of —
Averett College and the Danville | Memorial |

THOMAS GARTEN is president of | ‘Broad:
Inc. (WTAP-TV) in Par-

of the steering committee of | ‘the: Better

iation. He is currently chairman of
e Efficiency and Economic Research Com-_

nd Admission to the Bar Committee, and
resident of the 10th Judicial Circuit ‘Bar

‘-RTRAND P, Kapis and his associates, os.

LANE SAnTow “geologist: with Wheless

elected vice president for 1974-75 by the
Gulf Coast Association of Geological Socie-
ties.

CHARLES BUFORD CONNER has been with the
U.S. Government for 30 years and is pro-
~DCS/Development, Head-

part of a team which has developed new
and improved aeronautical, ballistic, space,
and electronic ‘systems for the iU i Air
Force.

1943 |

Three alumni in recent | months have been

W. ‘TOWNES Lea continues in the tobacco in’ Lynch rg has been elect
president ‘of the Virginia ‘Association “of

   

| County for the Juvenile and Domestic Rela-

tions Court.

1947

T. W. Somer is assistant regional counsel
with the Internal Revenue Service. He and
his wife have four daughters, and | the fam-
ily lives in Pale Lake City.

1948

Janes | Cates STANFIELD (See i)

1949

Tarr TRUSSELL is administrative vice presi-

- dent of the American Forest Institute, the

Realtors and is thus in line to become presi- :
dent next year. I. THomas BAKER, 55, an

ington has become president of the Lex-
ington- Rockbridge Board of Realtors. H.
MERRILL PratsTED, III, 57, a vice president

associate in Meade Associates, Inc., in Lex-

of Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., in Richmond |

has been named president of the Richmond
Board of Realtors. Baker and Plaisted were

both members of SAE fraternity when + they

were at WEL.

1944

JAMES” (CALEB STANFIELD is general counsel

of Paris, Ill. He also_ ‘is engaged in the

breeding of registered _ Texas Longhorn
cattle and is a member of the board of direc-

tors of the Texas Longhorn Breeders As-

sociation of America,

1945.

E. DEAN FINNEY | As president and general

manager of WI'WN Radio in St. Johns-
burg, Vt.,, and WIKE> in Newport, Vt. He
is serving his third year on the board of
trustees of Vermont State College and has

served a six-year term on re State Board

of Education, 7

for the Edgar County Bank and Trust Co.

Don M. Casto, JR, a “developer and owner

_ of shopping center malls, has recently com-
pleted the Scottsdale Mall in South Bend,
a He lives in Columbus, Ohio. |

1946

-Rosert J. SmitH, a Richmond attorney, has

a appointed substitute judge in Henrico

“

pe

Maryland State Senate from —
_ covering the eastern third of Washington

communications service of the Forest products

industry.

Matt W. PAXTON, JR is serving 2 as president

of the Historic Lexington Foundation, which

is restoring buildings and developing down-
town Lexington, Va. |

1950

J. ARTHUR Woon, Jr., whose cartoons bright-
en the United States Independent Telephone
Association’s Memberletters, has been elect-
ed president of the Association of American —
Editorial Cartoonists, an organization repre-
senting more than 200 cartoonists in this

country, Canada, and other Western Hemis- —

phere nations. Wood is editor of the USITA
Memberletter and director | of member in-
formation for USITA.

to the
‘the district.

EDWARD P. THOMAS was reelected -

County. Thomas is a businessman in . Brede-

rick.

FRANK Love, JR. is senior partner of the
Atlanta law firm of Powell, Goldstein, Fra-
zer and Murphy. He specializes in civil trial
practice and is currently serving as presi-_
dent of the Georgia Defense Lawyers Associa-
tion. Love is also in his second term on
the board of governors of the State Bar of
Georgia. Since 1972, he has been a fellow
of the American College of Trial Lawyers. |

He and his wife have a daughter and a son. -

1951
Jupce L. L. Mason, Jr., of Powhatan, Va.,
became judge of the 11th District Juvenile
and Domestic Relations Court in. July, 1974.
Before his appointment, he was in the gen-

21

 

 

Class Notes

eral practice of law for eight years in Pow-
hatan.

Robert T.. PITTMAN, editorial page editor of
the St. Petersburg, Fla. Times, has been
elected secretary of the National Conference
of Editorial Writers.

DONALD R. TAYLOR has become administra-
tor of the Tryon Palace Restoration Com-
plex in New Bern, N. C. He has been in
charge of the educational and interpretative
programs at Tryon Palace since 1962 and
has coordinated Tryon Palace symposia on
18th-century decorative arts. He has written
a number of historical articles on New Bern
and Hampton and has been active in his-
torical and American Revolution Bicenten-
nial affairs. Tryon Palace, a thriving tourist
attraction, was opened in 1959 as a complete
restoration of the first state capitol and the
home of the first governor of North Caro-
lina.

FRANK Love, JR. (See 1950)

1952

Horace W. DIETRICH, JR., has become pro-
perty manager for the Denver Technological
Center, which is a large office park develop-
ment. He and his wife, Nancy, have three
children.

Capt. ROBERT F, CONNALLY, U.S.N., after a
tour of duty with the Office of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff in Washington, D.C., is now
the commanding officer of the Navy Recruit-
ing District, Houston.

PHILIP ROBBINS, formerly with the Wash-
ington-Star, is now chairman of the jour-
nalism department at George Washington
University. He has been associate professor
in the department since 1970.

1953

SIMON H. GALPERIN, JR., has been elected to
a second term in the West Virginia State

Senate.
1954

JosepH L. LANIER, JR., executive vice-presi-
dent for the past five years of West Point
Pepperell textile corporation, has recently
been elected president. Lanier has served in
various capacities with the company since
1957. Immediately prior to becoming execu-
tive vice president in December, 1969, he was
president of the Industrial Fabrics Division

22

 

D. R. Taylor, ’51

with headquarters in New York City. He
will now have his headquarters at the Cor-
porate Offices in West Point, Ga. Lanier has
been a member of the West Point Pepperell
board of directors since 1968.

Cart D. SWANSON, associate professor of
psychology and director of the Counselor
Education Program at Madison College, has
been chosen as an Outstanding Educator of
America for 1974. The selection is made on
the basis of his professional and civic a-
chievements.

WALTER SMITH of Atlanta was recently ap-
pointed to the Commission on Ministry
in the Episcopal Diocese of Atlanta. He is
a visiting lecturer this semester at the At-
lanta College of Art in addition to his
private practice in pastoral therapy and
counselling. This summer he will be a
lecturer at the Southeastern School of Al-
cohol Studies at the University of Georgia’s
Center of Continuing Education.

1955

DONALD L. MALLOREY has recently been
elected president of Mallorey Office Supply
Co., Inc., in Washington, D. C. He is also
a director of Oriental Building Association.

Davin M. BERLINGHOF is manager of the
Chattanooga, Tenn., office of Cargill, Inc.

DoucLas E. RITCHE, JR., has been awarded a
certificate in advanced estate planning by
the American College of Life Underwriters.

I. ‘THOMAS BAKER (See 1943)

1957
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM O. SHROP-

SHIRE, a daughter, Katherine Elizabeth, on
May 5, 1974. The family lives in Atlanta, Ga.

Lr. Cot, CHARLES J. BALDREE is serving
as chief, Civil Law Branch, Headquarters
United Nations Command, in Seoul, Korea.
He and his wife, Henta, have two children.
Baldree also received the Silver Beaver
Award from the National Council of the Boy
Scouts of America.

H. MERRILL PLAIsTED, III (See 1943)

1958

GARY MCPHERSON is head basketball coach
at Alderson-Broaddus College, a liberal arts

J. L. Lanier, Jr., ’54

ee ee ee

 

J. H. Crocker, Jr., 58

college in Philippi, W. Va. The college is
a member of the West Virginia Intercol-
legiate Athletic Conference.

EpGAR H. MACKINLAy, after four years in
Akron, Ohio, as counsel for International
Co. of Firestone, has now opened his own
private law practice in Virginia Beach.

JOHN H. Croker, JR., has joined Security Na-
tional Bank of Walnut Creek, Calif., as
senior vice president, Commercial Banking
Group. Before joining Security, Croker head-
ed his own firm in Fort Wayne, Ind.,
specializing in the private placement of debt
and equity, mergers and acquisitions, and
financial advisory services for businesses.
He also held key posts with First National
City Bank of New York and Peoples Trust
Bank of Fort Wayne.

Dr. RIcHARD A. DAvis is coordinator of con-
sultation and education with the Mecklen-
burg, N.C. area Mental Health and Allied
Services.

CHARLES NOLTE has been elected president
of the Baltimore/Washington Food Brokers
Association for 1975.

WILLIAM A. TOWLER, who joined the firm
in 1971 as vice president and manager of
the administrative division, has recently been
named the new executive vice president of
Rattikin Title Co. in Fort Worth, Texas.
Shortly after joining Rattikin, Towler was
named secretary-treasurer and was elected
a director of Equitable Title and Abstract
Co. in Amarillo, Texas. He is active in pro-
fessional associations and is chairman of
the education and the insurance commit-
tees of Texas Land Title Association. Tow-
ler is a director and past president of the
Executives Association and a former director
of the Fort Worth Chapter of American
Heart Association. He is a member of the
Fort Worth Mortgage Bankers Association,
Fort Worth Board of Realtors, Builders As-
sociation of Fort Worth and Tarrant County,
and of the Chamber of Commerce.

Dr. IRVIN R. BERMAN continues as an as-
sociate professor of surgery at New York
University Medical School. He is in the tra-
ditional roles of teaching, clinical practice,
and research. Berman also had a_ second
one-man exhibition of his paintings at the
Bienville Gallery in New Orleans in Decem-
ber and January. His paintings have been

 

 

a :
os a a
.
oe
a
7 1 oe -
a
.t -
7 |
Me
7 ke oO an _=
= 2 ;
. - - Oo a -
i:
7 :
e - -
+ ae a . a a
. ae - -
Oo :
_ :
OO : :
7
:
i :
i
7 te 7
os .
- - ae
- .. :
: oe <
- >
a “ -
- 7 - =
: a -
aa -@ 7
- >
7 .
7 7
7 a
:
-

 

     

Capital D velopment Board, which: is the
: chief developer for the state ai

  
 

 
 

pedic surgery at | the University of
Hospital. He is chief of

  

 

 

  

nna in- June, 1974, They live in
le, ge ay suburb of ¢ CI

   

ed for the first time a

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

   

 

E. BRENT WELLS is administrative operations
manager for Xerox’s northeast region with
headquarters in White Plains, N.Y.

H. Micuart WALKER is vice president of
finance and acquisitions for Guest Quarters,
Inc., an apartment-hotel chain with head-
quarters in Norfolk, Va. He and his wife,

Carol, have’ two sons.

 

 

Dr. Davin W. BEvANS has completed a year
of thoracic surgery residency at Little Rock
Veterans Administration Hospital, where
he received the Director’s Commendation.
He and his wife, Peggy, have three children.

 

STEPHEN GulLp is at the University of Massa-
chusetts as director of a freshman program
called Global Survival. ‘The program pro-

vides an alternate course for a selected group
of students in five areas of global concern.

 

Dr. Tuomas D. Epwarps, D.DS., after spend-
ing three years in Stuttgart, Germany, as an
orthodontist with the U. S. Army, is now
in Washington state where he has set up his

practice in the fishing village of Gig Harbor.

 

 

  

BIRTH: MR. and Mrs. S. (GWATHMEY TYLER,
a son, Christopher Colgan, on July 31, 1974.
The young man joins two older brothers.
The family lives in. Anchorage, Ky.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. FREDERICK E. Cooper,
a son, Johnson Joseph, on Oct. 2, 1974. The
young man joins an older brother and the
family lives in Thomasville, Ga. |

 

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WARREN P. HOPKINS,
g Bethany Ann, on Oct. 1, 1974.
The young lady joins an older sister. The
nily lives in Knoxville, Tenn., where Hop-
kins — is completing his Ph.D. in clinical
, and his wife, Jane, is complet-
ing her Ph.D. in child development at the
University of Tennessee.

 

 

 

 

 

   

BIRTH
a son, Charles Councilman. Owens is now
with the Reynolds Securities, Inc. He also
is associated with a real estate ‘company
which recently opened the National Gettys-
burg Battlefield Tower, an observation tow-
er overlooking | the battlefield.

  

 

   

 
 
  

  
 

sigh ty ears. - He | is ourenty ery, Al
and marketing officer in charge of 1

    

So

 

   

 

  
 

Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES C. OWENS, |

   

 

em

a

OO

oe

 
  
 
   
  
    
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   

service, Savage is president of | the Alak
Junior Miss Pageant, Inc.

W. B. OciLviE, ‘Jr, has recently
signed responsibility for all doi !
processing operations for Occident
troleum Corp. in Houston. ae

 

 

 

 

May. NORMAN Ez, - LouncsLonn, 7 :

  

ganization, Palestine. He. was
the Army Meritorious Service
service at Fort Hood. >

 

 

     

‘three years in.
obtained his |

    
 

 

       
 
 
 
 
   
   

 

“After discharge | from ‘the. fa
with United Air Lines holdit
tions including manager of
financial - -system planning

     

  

© caren tly the
University of
cently received a
Georgetown Uni-

 

     

  
 
 

 

  

 

   
 
   
    

in the medical
1977 when he

  
 
 
  
   
 

 

 

 
 
 

and business
the Steak

  
 
 
  
 
   
 
  
     
   
  
  
  
   

“International,
in real estate

 

 

 

 
    

   
  
   
   
    
   
     
     
   
  
  
    
  
  
   
  
  

: ‘legal division of the New York State
ing Department.

NEIL MCWILLIAMS,
ce of pediatrics and pediatric nephro-
in Pensacola, Fila. |

R R. GALEF, formerly with Stellar In-
1eS in California, is now in brand man-
ent with Calgon | Consumer Products
ne., in Pittsburgh, Pa.

EY P. “ATWOOD (See. 1962)

1966

e lives in Richmond, Va.

oop RUTTER, Tl,

admissions: “At. Palisbury- ‘School ‘in Cor

- ‘TyteR, a partner, in the law firm of
‘man, Flynn, Swain, and_ ‘Tyler | of
ville, Ind., has been appointed special
ty prosecutor for the Vanderburgh

ived a Law Enforcement Assistance Ad-
istration grant, | :

ca

 

BS enment in the U. S. Air” ‘Force in
_ Turkey. He expects to leave the Air
in August, 1975, and to enter the
| rsity | of Rochester's: surgical residency
a as an associate resident in Surgery.

ey for, ~~ County in the state of

 

is in the general |

RRIED: Lewis N. “MILLER, JR. to te
‘Hart Peple on May 18, 1974. 7

  
  

is” ‘chairman. of. tl ‘ 7 Oo
age department cand assistant director Ww, |

HAROLD” D. “HEAD is ‘currently ‘chief 7 -
lent in surgery at Walter Reed | Army

ty Prosecutor’s Office in charge of nar-—
-and organized crime task force. He

| Veterans : _ Administration
‘D.z Cc

_L. Prior is in ‘Springfield, i
vhere he is ‘Vicar of St. Andrew’s Epis-_
Church. He and his wife have two

een elected prosecuting

igton, He and his wife, Carolyn and >

son, Guy Jr live in Long Beach, Wash.

GEORGE, N. STAMAS - is assistant treasurer for

Bankers Trust Co. in New York City. His
assignment includes assisting Chicago clients -
for the U. S. Banking Department. — |

“DR. WILLIAM H. SLEDGE is in his last year of

psychiatric residency at Yale Medical School.
He is also working as assistant to the director
of graduate education. He “expects to enter
the Air Force in the summer of 1975 for a
two-year tour of | duty.

= Roserr EL van, Je is western seonal man- :
ag eo for: Ohaus — cale Corp. —

 

1968

: ANDREW Lupton, after a
ical Center and will stay there as resi- —
in thoracic and cardiovascular surgery.

a year as associate

commissioner of Higher Education in In-

diana, has recently been appointed execu-
tive director of the New Jersey Commission
on Financing Post: Secondary Education. He
makes ms residence in Trenton, N.J.

1969

| Se MR. and Mrs. THOMAS V. ao

a son, Thomas V., Jr., on Oct. 29, 1974. The

senior Rueger is manager of United Vir-
| ee National Bank” at _ Virginia
, Beach.

KENNETH aR. SATLIN is an “attorney - with the
| in Washington,

. Joun_ gE (ax ) /PASsAVANT. was ordained | asa

 
  
   

he United Presbyterian Church,
vember, 1974, after receiving
of divinity degree from Fuller
Theological ‘ Seminary in Pasadena, Calif., in
June. He is currently serving at the Me-

 

   

morial Park Community United Presbyterian |
Church in ‘Allison Park, ‘Pa. 7

Wittias P. BOARDMAN (Bee 1968)
THORNTON M. Henry ee 1966)

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ae R. Rosr-
NETT, a son, Mathew Henry, on Nov. 14,

 

the Greensboro Optional ‘School.

 

1974. Tom is a senior law student at Wash:
ington & Lee.

BIRTH: Mr. aud Mrs. -THomas Nz Mc]un-
KIN, a son, Jameson Jones, on Oct. 22, 1974.
The family lives in Charleston, W.Va.

Harry LEE SALzBERG is in the Honolulu of-
fice of Blythe, Eastman, Dillion, members
of the New York Stock Exchange. —

Dr. HENRY A. FLEISHMAN graduated from

Emory University in June, 1974. He is now
an intern in surgery at the University of
Kentucky Medical Center, in Lexington, Ky.

a JoHN E, MILLER received : a M. Div. degree
> in May, 1974, from Union Theological Semi-
= nary in) Richmond, Va. He is currently serv-

ing as an_ associate minister at River Road
Baptist Church, and is teaching in the re-

-ligion | department at the University of

Richmond. He and_ his wife, Marguerite,
have one son, John Edward, Jee

WILLARD B. WAGNER, T is ‘currently the

employee benefits trust officer for the Texas
| Commerce Bank of Houston. | |

1971

MARRIED: BRUCE W. KEnINER = Karin

Koehnke of Berlin, Germany on Feb. 25,
1974. Mrs.

New York City.

MARRIED: Hucu F, Hut, TH, to Sandra Lo

Read of Alexandria, Va. on Aug. 31, 1974.
Among the wedding party were Cy Dillon,
“71, Mike Florence, ‘71, and Joe Tompkins,
71. Both Hugh and Sandra_ are senior medi-

cal students at the Medical College of Vir-

ginia in Richmond and are in the Process
of interviewing for medical internships. — |

Dr. CHRISTOPHER D. FRIEND, after gradua-
tion from the University | of Virginia Medi-
cal School in May, 1974, was married to
Roxanne Viscomi. Among the. groomsmen
were Bill McCullough,
Craig Galpern, ‘71, and John Larmour, ’

   

~The couple now lives. in Newtown, Conn., | _
where Dr. Friend is doing an internship. ing
internal medicine att the Waterbury, Hospi

tal.

Joun ‘AL KING, | a “free lance Photographer in
Greensboro, N. C., is also a counselor

complete his master’s degree in couns

| Keihner is a pursar for Pan
- American Airlines, Bruce is an | attorney ing

770, Bill Oast, 2 |

 

 

 

 

 

  
     

  

  

    
 
   

 

7 at the University of North Carolina—Greens- 0 Pp“ paity 23 0 ms . rf Zn ae a Specia Le niki 1 F : he I C. ch ter of the Savings

 

boro this summer. King is co-chairman of a
commuttes’ that. is) ‘doer, on en to. ee

    
 
  
   
  
 
    
  

NC

   

rk at Yale,

 

 

    

 

    

   

    
  
  
    

   

    

U.S. Army.
| a to complete
After receiving his” 1. Degree ‘from ‘the |
| hae 4 2 : |
ms, “73, and _
a currently a.

 

    

 

 

       

Va. where he is. pastor of the Bethlehem
— ~ United Church « of Christ.

- CHARLES: G. "Houston; ‘ITI, is working in At-
jana, —- with Crow, Carter and Associates,

     

       

   

    

 
   

ae

 

 

‘THomas a BERGER is

   

 

  

oo. with the —

 
 
   

 

 

 

 

    
    
    
   
     
 

np S, Tompkins, III, is currently the
manager and sales representative
X, Inc. a leading manufacturer of
sticks. He lives in Baltimore.

he expects to receive. his M -B.A. in

E. Moser is in his seoond ‘year of

  
  

 

Bridgeton, N. J.

| is also_
istant city solicitor.

   
 

G. _BRELSFORD is: currently ‘

   

ture the works ii f 1 Hsiung Ju

     

ny F, “HALEY is ‘finishing a two-year
active duty tour as a second lieu-
in the U. S. Army. Initially he served _
listrative officer for the 90nd Mili-

  
  

  

“SULLIVAN, after a mise during
mer from the Virgin Islands and ©
aown the ee ak C , is. now

    

ER | ‘F. Borers, sti to

ing party —
Va. 1

Alexandria, — Va.
States history and coaches

G. Rocers is in. his senior. year at ;
an University’s School of Business

sions | director at Episcopal High School in

He also teaches United
in football,

 

wrestling, and lacro

 

‘School at the University of North |

 

| tect in’ St. |

  

RE HENRY RITTER, a practicing attor- |

hop, called Miller and. ‘Har ding, Inc, 7

(978 | a -

R. Birbari 73. . targa or lives

    
    
  

 

  
  
 

    
   

 

Service “Me tal for

 
 
 
    
 
  
     

 
  
  

Barrett

  

and former leader in the Virginia De

sonburg Telephone Co. for 33

 

USS Dolphin. He was selected to specialize
in naval architecture and went to M.LT. for
two years of post graduate work. He served
‘in various capacities during World War II
and was, at one time, with the Army and
Navy Munitions Board. He was a mem-
ber of the Chevy Chase Club and of the
Army and Navy Club in Washington.

192]

Howarp K. GIBBONS, retired Madison College
business manager, died Jan. 1, 1975 in Har-
risonburg, Va. Gibbons went to Harrison-

: “PUB as treasurer of the State Teachers

   

7 now Madison College, and was as-
| | re until retiring as
in 1966. He was ac-

  
  
 

1999

| Winuas | 7 Barrert, who for many years

was. a public school administrator in North-

irginia, died Jan. 6, 1975, in Arlington.
had been in the educational field
since 1922, retiring several years ago. He was
a former assistant principal of | Jefferson
High School and was with the Fairfax
County Public School System when he ‘Te:

tired.

(1993
JAMES RIcHARD Tuomas, a native of Helena,
‘Ark., died in Fort Worth, Texas Nov. 18,
1974. ‘Thomas had lived in Fort Worth for

 

 

45 years. He was a mortgage banker and was
a retired manager
of Lincoln National Insurance Co.

of the Southwest Region

 

a

4

1994

_ Jack Lanter NEAL, a prominent citizen of
Danville, Va., died Sept. 8, 1974.

1926

Ww LIAM CooK Norvett, JR, a well ‘known

 
  
  

  
 

, dit ition ‘to his law practice, |
| owned fruit groves and was fc
‘dent of Norglo Fruit and Ve

   

SWITZER, a prominent — iness man
mo-
c party of Harrisonburg, Va., died Dec

20, 1974. He was president of the

 

      
  

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

   

 

 

 

      

        
 
 
 

/ was ae Nene on the First National j _ ‘several genera-

 

Delta Cotton
formerly a
Insurance

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

¥

Spring sports schedule

LACROSSE
Mar. 1—Chesapeake Lacrosse Club* 2.00... HOME
Mar. 8—Morgan State oo... eee, . HOME
Mar. 10—University of Connecticut 0.0.00... HOME
Mar. 12—Duke University 2.0.0.0... re HOME
Mar. 15—Mt. Washington*............. Seed ceeebbceeeeneteuneeeteeeeneeee Away
Mar. 23—Bowling Green ieee eeee HOME
Mar. 25—Princeton  ...................000. eee eee cesses seeetteeeateeeeeeteees HOME
Mar. 28—Navy oo.ccccccccccccceecceeceeceeeeceeeenreeessteeteeeeeneseeneens HOME
Apr. Q—HOfStra ooiiccecccccceccccceccccccccceeeecceeeeeseeeeceseeteeeeeeeeeetene: Away
Apr. 12—Cortland oii tenes Away
Apr. 19—Maryland Lacrosse Club® ................ ere HOME
Apr. 90—North Carolina State oo... ic ccceececececeeeeees HOME
Apr. 23—University of North Carolina 00... Away
Apr. 26—Towson State seeeeeseverehsepeeet rates eae Away
May 1—William and Mary oo... HOME
May 3—Washington College ...0000 ee Away
May 7—Roanoke College .......... Pluses ieredureeveseeeetescsetovesicess Away
May 10—Rutgers University 2.000000 ce HOME
May 17—University of Virginia ........ cetcnssteeeeessgu ene helinati HOME
*Exhibition
GOLF

Mar. 14—Christopher Newport, Lynchburg,

Virginia Wesleyan. .................. No vetteeceseeee Va. Beach
Mar. 25—Lynchburg College 2.000000. _........Lynchburg
Apr. 11-12—Va. Intercollegiate Golf Tourn. ........ Hot Springs
Apr. 16—Hampden-Sydney, Roanoke,

Virginia Commonwealth |... _... Farmville
Apr. 18—Randolph-Macon o.......0.00 cece HOME
Apr. 21—VCAA Tournament ..........0000..000.00... voocetcvcteeeee: Fairfax
Apr. 30—Bridgewater 0... cect Staunton
May 2—Emory and Henry, Madison ............0...00... HOME
May 5—Gettysburg (000s HONMI

‘TRACK

Mar. 20—Madison 00.00.0000 occccccceecceecccee sete tevetevtttetseeeee Away
Mar. 22—Wake Forest ......0.000cccccccceccceecceeeevseeeececevecevteveeeeee: Away
Mar. 27—Shepherd—Frostburg 00.00.0000... HOME
Apr. 10—Davidson oii. cceccccccccceeesceesesesveveesvsveeeeee: heseeeeees Away
Apr. 12—Davidson Relays ................ ce bite ctetteeettecten Away
Apr. IS—Lynchburg co eecceeccce ce cteeecesee cee Away
Apr. 19—State Meet 00ccccccccccecececeeee. Richmond, Va.
Apr. 22—Roamoke iio cc cseeseesssesessvsssessvivesessvesvesevesee Away

Apr. 26-VCAA 2 Harrisonburg, Va.

May 2—Bridgewater ooo. ccecccceeeccctecce cette ccc HOME
TENNIS

Mar. 8—West Virginia University 0... HOME

Mar. 10—Haverford College cece HOME

Mar. 14—American University coceveteves vevecepcetueetetietetreeeeea, HOME

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
May
May
May

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.

Apr.

“Apr.

Apr.
May
May
* (2

19—University of Richmond oo... Away
20—Old Dominion University 0.0.0.0... Away
21—Georgetown University 0.0.0.0... Away
22-—-Lehigh University 00.0.0... eee HOME
24—Virginia Military Institute 0.00... HOME
25—Amherst College .............. seadubetebsneneneenvast phn Shi tas HOME
26—Colgate University 00.0... ee HOME
27—Sheppard College oo... ee .. HOME
5—Morris Harvey College 0.0.0... HOME
5—Bridgewater College ................ spcortseuetee emir cangune & HOME
7—Emory College o........ cece tent eneeenee Away
8—University of Florida... i. ici Away
9—Eckerd College 00.0.0... eee te eteeee Away
10—Univ. of South Florida .............. setwatdinysdscvcedeqiinca’ Away
11—Florida Southern oo... cee Away
14—University of Virginia... Homestead
Pm WTA LOO iii lias cistetcccetevsedenestoneee nal HOME
17—George Washington Univ. oe Away
18—William and Mary ......0..0 ee HOME
23—Hampden-Sydney oo... cece ccreeee HOME
25-26—VCAA Championships 2.0.0.0... HOME
29—Madison College ................ ceoetvsehsdas SOp oe teons chat Away
30—Roanoke College ......0.cce cee HOME
6—Randolph-Macon College 0.0... eee. Away
7—Emory and Henry. oo... HOME
10—U. S. Naval Academy | o.oo... ee Away
BASEBALL
8—University of Connecticut .......... hrieidverectseetaals HOME
12—Hampden-Sydnrey oo... sas stobes sede? wp iageenge Away
15—West Virginia Inst. of Technology* ............... HOME
18—Hampden-Sydney oo... cece ere HOME
19—Southern Connecticut State 0.0000 ee. HOME
21—Lynchburg College 0.0.0.0... eee Away
22—William and Mary ...0.........c cette _., Away
25—Lynchburg Baptist College ....0..000 Away
26—Virginia Military Institute ............ Leeoeieeeeene geil Away
27—Oneonta State oo... eee HOME
5—Hamilton College 0.0.0... es seeeeetoe tpt HOME
7-10—W&L Invitational
(Round Robin Tournament) ..........0.00....... HOME
15—Bridgewater*® oo... eee ee cece terre tenes Away
V7—Madison o...... sce eee eect eee etter tteereeee HOME
20—Old Dominion University* 0.0.00... HOME
Z2—Madison oooo....e occ cee cece cece ctteeeeeeeeeeenetnneees Away
25—Lynchburg College ............ cvestectteaeeegernessahiidonisiel ai HOME
26—VCAA Playoffs... Lynchburg Stadium
29—Virginia Military Institute 20.00... HOME
2—APpYentice*® oii cece ete HOME
8—Lynchburg Baptist College 0.000000 HOME
games)

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

RESERVE THE DATES

Spring
Class Reunions

 

 

MAY 9 anp 10, 1975

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of
1925 1935 1950 Teg tooo
and the

Old Guard

MAKE A BEELINE TO THE W&L HIVE IN ’75!

 

 

            

< \ ees
SMM
Ne iain ae ne ee

 

