of
ee Universi
Tyo f4

“6

inetan and L
Lexin
MAY 2

Wash

iversity

gi
ail
nr

. “ ee

OF. Oty erst a * “i
oats

 

c
oe
YU
YU
—
oO
&
Ww
&
Oo
te
50
&
ohed
“
Ww
=
Steed
©
Y
&
|
3
50
i)
&
¢
&
=
CS
Y
vies
pa)

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 49, Number 3, April 1974

William C. Washburn 740.000.000.000... Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68............000...0.cccccccceceee. Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter... Editorial Assistant
Robert Lockhart, 172 0.0.6 occ cccccccsiscscosscesens Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Pusey is Mason Professor .............0..0000ccceccsceeees ]
Bill Pusey: A Profile ........00.0c cece ceeeeeeeee 2
Endowed Professorships Help W&L. .................. 6
An Interview with John W. Warner .................... 9
W&L’s Bicentennial Plans 200.000.000.000 13
George S. Arnold, Benefactor .....00....0000000 cece. 15
University’s Library Needs ............00...0ccccceee. 18
Phi Beta Kappa Convocation .0.0.0.0.00.0.0.0.0000000. 21
MOM, TIT ooo ceicccecseseesdsnccssovsnsscususevsdovectneses oe
Winter Sports Roundup. ........0......0.0cc ccc 24
Williams in Hall of Fame 0000000000000. 26
Class Notes ooo... ccecccscescsesteeetessssssssecnevaceeeen 27
Tn Memoriam oon. cccccccccccccccccecesessvseveereneees 30
Huston St. Clair Dies... cccececeeeeeeees 31

Lost Alumni

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILuiaM H. HIwier, ’38, Chicago, III.
President

‘T.. HAL CxiarKE, ’38, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

‘THOMAS B. BrANcH, III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
RICHARD D. HAynes, ’58, Dallas, Texas
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce Houeu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
‘THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, 50, Wyomissing, Pa.
CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. T'Homas ‘Toucnuton, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

ii...»
o={) OD

On the Cover: With 14 seconds to go and W&L.’s
perfect lacrosse record in jeopardy, Skip Lichtfuss
(that’s he wedged between two opponents in front
of the net) scored a goal to tie powerful Towson
State 17-17. W&L went on to win the game in
overtime 19-17 to remain undefeated. Updating
the lacrosse bulletin on Page 25, the Generals, as
of April 30, had won 11 and lost none, with only
three games to play. Photograph by Robert Lock-
hart.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

William W. Pusey, III, is named
first S. Blount Mason Professor

 

Dr. William Webb Pusey, III, professor of
German and head of the department, has been
named Washington and Lee’s first S. Blount
Mason, Jr., Professor. ‘The appointment was
made and announced by the University’s Board
of ‘Trustees.

The endowed chair was established in recog-
nition of S. Blount Mason, Jr., a prominent
Baltimore insurance executive, who attended
Washington and Lee from 1901 to 1903. A na-
tive of Richmond and a descendant of George
Mason, the author of Virginia’s Declaration of
Rights, Mason spent his entire working career
with the U. S. Fidelity and Guaranty Co. of
Baltimore.

‘The endowment for the Mason chair came to
Washington and Lee from trusts which termi-
nated upon the death of S. Blount Mason, Jr.,
in May, 1969. The trusts had been created by
Mason and his wife, who died four months ear-
lier, to benefit after their deaths certain chari-
ties in which they were interested. Washington
and Lee’s share, which the Masons directed
should be used to strengthen faculty salaries,
amounted to nearly a half million dollars.

Dr. Pusey, the first Mason professor, has
been a Washington and Lee faculty member
for 35 years. He was dean of the College from
1960 to 1971 and was acting president of the
University from the time Dr. Fred C. Cole re-
signed in 1967 until his successor, Robert E. R.
Huntley, assumed office in February, 1968.

In addition to his current teaching duties,
which include Russian language and compara-
tive literature courses as well as German, Dr.

 

 

Pusey is director of Washington and Lee’s Chi- ae
nese studies program. He began working to de- ee .
velop that program almost as soon as he left the . I

deanship three years ago. William W. Pusey, III, the professor

 

 

 

April 1974

by Robert S. Keefe

 

Bill Pusey: a scholar whose text
is simply ‘I like students’

Bill Pusey didn’t go to Washington and Lee, but
he might as well have.

“This,” he says, “is practically ‘Utopia U.
“But put that in quote marks. I don’t mean for it to
sound facetious.”

Since 1939, with a break only for World War II
and a couple of sabbaticals, he’s served in just about
every capacity there is at W&L. Once in 1967, he had
to interrupt a student who was pleading with him
breathlessly on some point or other with the in-
quiry: ““Wait—are you asking me as dean of the
College, or chairman of the Courses and Degrees
Committee, or acting President?”

But his “first love” has always been for teaching,
and in 1971, after 11 years as dean of W&L’s arts-and-
sciences division (teaching only one course or so each
semester) he returned full-time to the classroom. It
struck his colleagues as especially apt, then, that
he was named by the Board of Trustees to the newest

> 99

endowed chair—the S. Blount Mason, Jr., professorship.

Pusey came to Washington and Lee as acting head
of the German department in 1939, the year he re-
ceived his Ph.D. from Columbia University. (He holds

A pause.

 

the B.A. degree from Haverford College and the M. A.
from Harvard.)

His 11] years as dean left an important mark on
Washington and Lee. The list of achievements he
directed and supported is impressive. Faculty salaries
were doubled so the University could attract and keep
top-flight teachers. Research opportunities were
expanded markedly both for professors and for stu-
dents; the Robert E. Lee Research Program, established
in 1960 with a gift of more than $250,000 from the
late Dr. Gustavus Benz Capito, an 1899 W&L gradu-
ate, has permitted more than 750 students to engage
in advanced research—often of graduate-school calibre
—under the individual direction of W&L teachers.
Major grants in the 1960’s from the Alfred P. Sloan
and Ford Foundations provided new programs of
leaves-of-absences and support for scholarly research to
teachers in the sciences and humanities.

During his deanship the entire curriculum was re-
organized, distribution and major requirements were
fundamentally updated and changed, and the “12-12-6”
academic calendar with the “short term” at the end
(when more field opportunities are available than at

 

 

Washington and Lee plus Pusey Equals One Long Love Affair

Here are some of Bill Pusey’s
thoughts about Washington and
Lee as he nears the middle of his
fourth decade of service to the
University:

“The University possesses a set
of characteristics that are very
nearly unique,” He says. “The fac-
ulty is exceptionally talented.
There is the valuable opportunity
to undertake scholarly work of an
appealing sort—work that is per-
sonally interesting to me.

“And the students. ‘They’re
very sophisticated intellectually—
versatile and energetic. One of my

favorite pleasures is to teach the
introductory courses. That is one
of the reasons I find Washington
and Lee’s emphasis on undergra-
duate education so congenial—the
opportunity to introduce young
men to the world of ideas on a
broad base.”

One _ particularly important
W&L characteristic in his eyes is
the geographic diversity in its stu-
dent body. “Egregious provincial-
ism,” as he calls it, is for him an
abiding academic bane in _ the
United States—including “the oc-
casional tendency in the North to
assume an institution in the South

can’t be first-rate.”

He appreciates especially the
way Washington and Lee is gov-
erned. (“Don’t say ‘governance,’ ”’
he cautions. “I don’t like academic
jargon.”) “We have a very happy
relationship among the faculty,
students, administration, and trus-
tees. I really don’t know of any
first-rate college or university that
has an autocratic system of govern-
ment. Ours is a valuable asset.

“I’ve traveled to meetings and
visited other colleges frequently,
and always I come back with new
satisfaction at being connected
with Washington and Lee.”

 

 

WeL

Dice en .

 

 

 

pre

ec tt REST HME

 

See

ues!
oe
*

pit

=
-
s

ae ee

>

s

Sa

3

_

-
Be
Ss

BS.
=

 

Pusey: Mason Professor

 

 

 

Above: Dr. Pusey in a characteristic setting helping a student
arrange his academic program during registration.

Below: Pusey shows off his “Golden Glove Award” which was
presented to him by his colleagues upon his retirement

from the deanship. The award is a token of his interest in
baseball.

4

 

any other time of the year) was adopted. The number of
courses in the arts and sciences nearly doubled, from
340 in 1960-61 to 635 courses a decade later. A new pro-
gram for honors students was developed, and the faculty
adviser system was revamped. W&L joined in the
establishment of the Eight-College Exchange Pro-
gram, prinicpally to give students the chance to take
at other schools courses not offered at W&L; a
Pass/Fail option for certain elective courses was in-
troduced. The computer center, language labora-
tories, campus FM radio facilities all were added in
those years as well.

Not only is Bill Pusey appreciated and admired
by his colleagues in the faculty and administration.
He’s the only person ever to have been presented two
Ring-tum Phi Awards by the student newspaper,
both coming in the days when students were sup-
posed to be suspicious of anybody “in power’’—
the first in 1968, after his service as acting President,
the second three years later upon his retirement from
the deanship. The 300 seniors attending the banquet at
which the 1971 presentation was made gave him a
standing ovation.

It was natural that they should. “His overriding con-

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

Endowed professorships enhance
W&L’s overall excellence

The establishment of the S. Blount
Mason, Jr., professorship edges Wash-
ington and Lee toward fulfillment of
a cherished long-range goal which is
a central objective of the University’s
present development program: to
have the financial ability based on
sufficient endowment to appoint a
distinguished named professor in
every major academic department.

Progress toward this objective has
been slow but gratifying. The first
step came in the early nineteenth cen-
tury when the Society of the Cincin-
nati of Virginia, following the ex-
ample of George Washington, added
much-needed funds to the endow-
ment of the struggling classical aca-
demy that was to survive to become
Washington and Lee University.

6

   

~ . 3
ee 7
% _ ia ti , : :

he _«* A '
. oe . << 2 Saeed 3 =

: Se

© :

‘ ee a —— —

Dr. Claybrook Griffith, Mamie Fox Twyman Martel Professor

That gift was recognized by the desig-
nation of a Cincinnati professorship,
a chair that is held today by Dr.
Felix Welch, professor of mathemat-
ics and former head of the depart-
ment.

In more recent years, additional
endowed professorships were made
possible by gifts from the Mamie F.
Martel ‘Trust of Houston: the Henry
S. Fox, Jr., professorship, held by Dr.
Severn Duvall, professor of English
and head of the department; and the
Mamie Fox Twyman Martel profes-
sorship, held by Dr. Claybrook Grif-
fith, professor of economics and head
of the department.

In 1971, a grant of $600,000 from
the William R. Kenan, Jr., Chari-
table ‘Trust of New York enabled the

University to establish the William
R. Kenan, Jr., professorship, to which
Dr. William A. Jenks, professor of
history and head of the department,
was named.

Now there is the S. Blount Mason,
Jr., professorship, held by Dr. Wil-
liam W. Pusey, III, professor of Ger-
man and head of the department.
And the Board of Trustees has deter-
mined that other professorial chairs
need to be established in the years
ahead to maintain progress toward
the final objective. Thus the Board
has made the seeking of such profes-
sorships a priority item in its devel-
opment program objectives for the
1970's.

The desirability of named endow-
ed professorships at a privately fi-

   

shitiianliiiaiciele asian Disaiaaniibaaitipilies

Ke FE
A AAO LAA RE

Dr. Severn Duvall, Henry S. Fox, Jr. Professor

WeL

nanced and independently governed
institution like Washington and Lee
goes to the heart of its educational
mission.

University President Robert E. R.
Huntley has declared on many oc-
casions that Washington and Lee’s
only reason for existence is to pro-
vide the best possible education to
the young men who come to it. That
means the University is obligated to
maintain the best possible faculty to
teach them.

“A university is no stronger than
its faculty,” is the way Dean of the
College William J. Watt puts it. And
President Huntley has_ described
Washington and Lee in formal terms
as an “institution which unashamed-
ly proclaims that there is no higher

 

 

 

Dr. William A. Jenks, William R. Kenan, Jr., Professor
April 1974

 

 

goal to which a scholar can aspire
than to be a vital teacher of young
men.”

A professorship is named in recog-
nition of a $500,000 gift commit-
ment made either outright or as an
irrevocable provision in the donor’s
estate plan. A gift which establishes
a named endowed professorship is
invested by Washington and Lee as
a part of its general endowment. The
named professorship honors the don-
or and the gift, and the increased
resources that the gift creates can be
looked upon as a general enhance-
ment of the University’s ability to
secure and retain outstanding schol-
ar-teachers.

Named endowed professorships are
great sources of gratification to the

donors who make them possible. The
person for whom the professorship is
named is perpetuated in the minds
and hearts of everyone associated
with an institution whose history
spans three centuries. Posterity is re-
minded that the donor was particu-
larly generous to and interested in
private education and in Washing-
ton and Lee and that the University
is grateful for the support it has re-
ceived and holds in esteem those who
share its dedication to continuing ex-
cellence in higher education and its
conviction to devote all of its re-
sources to that end.

Endowed professorships also en-
able the University to honor dis-
tinguished faculty members for
their high academic attainments and

 

 

  

4 > 3
= =
=
|
;

 

 

  

ee ; : * bit “

 
  

Dr. Felix Welch, Cincinnati Professor

~J

Endowed Professorships

 

their dedication to teaching. This
recognition is invaluable to a teacher
in his professional pursuits. It adds
luster to the academic community as
a whole and demonstrates that Wash-
ington and Lee puts a high premium
on scholarly achievement and on
classroom instruction of the highest
order. And this again strengthens the
University’s position in maintaining
a faculty of eminence and distinction.

The student is the ultimate bene-
ficiary. He is assured of studying un-
der some of the best teachers in the
country and of being intimately as-
sociated with scholars whose primary
interest is the teaching of undergra-
duates.

So it is that the Board of Trustees
has included in its development ob-
jectives for the University to be
achieved by 1976 a $12,000,000 item

for increased endowment. Of this
amount, $6,000,000 is earmarked for
faculty salary support, $3,000,000 for
increased student financial aid, and
$3,000,000 for general endowment.
As of the end of February, 1974,
$5,591,528 has been committed to-
ward the overall $12,000,000 endow-
ment goal—a little less than half.
The Board of ‘Trustees is hopeful
that endowed professorships will
constitute much of the remainder
needed to meet the endowment goals
for faculty salary support.
Continuing to work toward a-
chievement of these endowment goals
is. the Washington and Lee Achieve-
ment Council and the Estate Plan-
ning Council. The Achievement
Council was appointed by the Board
of Trustees to spearhead the effort to
reach the overall first-phase develop-

ment goal of $36,000,000 by 1976.
The Council is composed of mem-
bers of the Board of Trustees joined
by more than 40 alumni and friends
who have volunteered their services.
The Council, headed by Trustee John
M. Stemmons of Dallas, is divided
into committees, each headed by a
Trustee chairman and Trustee part-
ners, and each with specific respon-
sibilities for gifts from the Univer-
sity’s various constituencies.

The Estate Planning Council is
composed of volunteers who are
knowledgeable in financial and legal
affairs. ‘They are ready to help any
alumnus or friend arrange an estate
gift to his or her best advantage. ‘The
Estate Planning Council is directed
by Martin P. Burks of Roanoke, who
is general counsel for the Norfolk &
Western Railway.

 

$50,000 charitable remainder unitrust.

Charitable Remainder Unitrusts Help W&L and the Donor

Washington and Lee was recently
notified that an alumnus has created
for the benefit of the University a

trust principal may be put by the
University may be left to the discre-
tion of the Univers:ty Board of Trus-
tees or may be designated by the crea-
tor of the trust at the time of the

tain characteristics with other kinds
of charitable trusts (such as freedom
from capital gains tax when the trust
is funded with appreciated property.)

 

This brings to more than $400,000 the
market value of charitable trusts nam-
ing Washington and Lee which have
been funded in the past year and a
half.

The University will eventually re-
ceive the principal of these trusts
while their creators (or beneficiaries
named by them) are now enjoying the
income. These gifts enable the Uni-
versity to plan with confidence for the
future, assured that it can meet its
educational goals.

The ultimate use to which the

gift. Depending on the size of the
gift, a unitrust is an appropriate way
of creating a named scholarship fund,
an endowed professorial chair, or other
memorial gift.

The unitrust is one of the sev-
eral types of charitable remainder
trusts which receive favorable tax
treatment under the 1969 Tax Reform
Act. It has certain unique advantages
(such as a variable return to the
beneficiary, valuable in combatting
the effects of inflation) and shares cer-

an extremely efficient and desirable
way of helping to meet Washington
and Lee’s future needs for capital
while the donor retains use of the
income from the donated property.

trusts and other kinds of deferred
giving write:

These features make the unitrust

For further information about uni-

Edward O. Henneman
Associate Director

Office of Development
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

WeL

a rm ee ee re

An Intervrew

 

Trustee John W. Warner sees upsurge
of enthusiasm for U.S. Bicentennial

John W. Warner, a member of the Washington and
Lee Board of Trustees since 1968, has become head of
the American Revolution Bicentennial Administration.
He assumed his duties in April after serving two years
as Secretary of the Navy and three years as Under Sec-
retary of the Navy. He is a 1949 graduate of W&L and
holds a law degree from the University of Virginia. At
the age of 47, he has compiled an impressive record of
public service both in and out of government. He is a
son of a WeL graduate, the late Dr. John W. Warner,
Class of 1903, in whose memory the J. W. Warner, M.D.,
Scholarship Fund was established at W&L. As a Trus-
tee, Warner played an important part in the assess-
ment of Washington and Lee’s needs that led to the
University’s current effort to raise $36 million by the
Bicentennial Year of 1976. In the following interview,
he discusses his new job, his work with the Navy, his
role asa WeL Trustee, and his affection for Washing-
ton and Lee.

WkL: Mr. Warner, you have moved from one impor-
tant job to another. How do you feel about the transt-
tion?

WARNER: ‘The transition required only the time to
drive from the Pentagon to my offices here at Jackson
Place which are located across from the White House on
historic Lafayette Square. That drive took about 15
minutes, let’s say.

For the indefinite future I would hope to remain in
public service. I have found that to be the most reward-
ing portion of my career which has embraced service
as Assistant United States Attorney, four years of active
military duty—two in the Navy and two in the Marines
—and about six years in the private practice of law.
Those experiences, while having their individual re-
wards, don’t measure up to my most recent service as
Under Secretary and then Secretary of the Navy for a
combined tour of over five years—and now on to this
new position.

I think this position thrusts upon me the greatest
challenge of my lifetime. People from every corner of
our nation are searching today for a means to reaffirm
and reassert those faiths and beliefs instilled in us by
our Founding Fathers. And I hope to play a helpful
role in this great endeavor.

April 1974

 

 

Trustee Warner in his Jackson Place offices; behind him is
a wall-size replica of the Declaration of Independence.

W&kL: What satisfactions did you derive from your
position as Secretary of the Navy?

WarRNER: First, during those five years, we brought the
Navy into stride with the current thinking in America
respecting the treatment of the individual. For example,
we had within the Navy a human goals program which
was initiated during my first year, and the basic tenet
of that program was as follows: That every individual
in uniform or in civilian clothes within the Depart-
ment of Defense could rise to the level to which his
diligence and ability enabled him.

Second is the modernization of the fleet. ‘The fleet
consisted of over 900 ships in 1969—my first year. When
I departed this month, the fleet was down to slightly
more than 500 ships. We took this cut in order to save
funds which were directed into new construction. ‘The

9

“The principles and ideals that
are taught at Washington and Lee
have been the ones that have
guided me throughout my life”’

budget before the Congress that I presented on the
eve of my departure for $29 billion contains a funding
request for the first time in the past five years for
more ships—namely 30—than we propose to retire from
the fleet, which is roughly 22 ships this year. So the
fleet is starting back up in numbers, in quality, and in
modernization.

The third thing I take considerable personal pride
in was being the head of the delegation to the Soviet
Union for the purpose of negotiating an agreement for
safety on and above the high seas. Negotiations began
in the fall of 1971 in Moscow. ‘Then Soviet delegations
came to this country, and I returned with the Presi-
dent and attended the Moscow summit meeting in May,
1972, at which time the agreement was signed. The
agreement between the two navies provides for safety
measures to protect the lives of sailors and airmen
operating on and above the high seas. It was a direct
outgrowth of that period of tension between our
navies that led to the series of stories entitled “Chicken
of the Sea.”

That’s a sort of capsule. Then I might add the
tremendous satisfaction I received from having headed
an organization of more than a million and a quarter
people with one of the largest budgets in the Federal
Government. I will always regard it as a great privilege
to have served along side of the men and women of
the Armed Forces of the United States, who in large
measure and in reality are providing the freedom which
we enjoy today. I can tell you that in my judgment
freedom is not free. Someone has to pay the price, and
they are paying a considerable measure of that price.

WkL: Generally, it seems there has not been an
enormous amount of national enthusiasm generated yet
towards the Bicentennial.

WARNER: I would like to correct you on that state-
ment. I was somewhat under a similar impression until
I arrived here last week and discovered that that im-
pression was entirely erroneous. There is an enormous
ground swell of activity. The Bicentennial Administra-
tion’s annual report to Congress shows that over 1,400
programs and other activities are under way. Each of
the 50 states now has its own Bicentennial Commis-
sion. We just have not been able to tell adequately

10

 

On a recent visit to Annapolis while Secretary of the Navy,
Warner talked earnestly with the Midshipmen.

the United States principally and then the world of the
surge of activity now going on here within the 50 states,
territories, and District of Columbia. The list is really
extraordinary.

WkL: What kind of role do institutions of higher
education have to play in the Bicentennial observance?
WarRNER: As a matter of fact, my first public statement
will be as commencement speaker at Indiana State Uni-
versity. I chose that purposely from among many, many
invitations to speak because of its location in the cen-
tral United States and its young people, and then, of
course, I was honored by being selected to receive an
honorary doctorate.

The university role in contrast to a great deal of fan-
fare which takes place elsewhere in the country should

WeL

i aol ti

 

 

While on the same visit, Warner joined Naval Academy officers
in inspecting the grounds and new construction.

in my judgment be focused upon the intellectual as-
pects of this historic era. For example, one of the pro-
grams we have under way is the “Great Issues.’’ We hope
to select, say, a dozen major issues and encourage the
media and the intellectual segment of our society to
discuss each of those issues, one a month for twelve
months. An example is religion in America’s past, pre-
sent, and future. The “Role of Religion in America,” I
guess, would be the proper title. Now those are the
things that I would hope the universities would stimu-
late on and off the campus.

W&L: You have been a Trustee of Washington and
Lee for five years. Why do you do tt?

WARNER: I have been able to maintain only two out-
side activities from a list of many since my return to

April 1974

teh kek kkk

 

Warner, as Under Secretary of the Navy, returns from a
reconnaissance flight while on a tour of Vietnam.

Federal service. First is the Washington Cathedral,
which has been an integral part of my family for many
years, and I was more or less born in the shadow of
that. And the second is Washington and Lee. My
father was a graduate of the Class of 1903 and I of the
Class of 1949. The principles and ideals that are taught
and embraced at Washington and Lee have been the
ones that have guided me throughout my life. I would
like now, through my participation on the Board of
Trustees and other things that I have done, to return
to Washington and Lee in other forms some of the
benefits I received there.

WkL: What influence has Washington and Lee had
on your life and career?
WarNnNER: Washington and Lee has left an indelible im-

11

‘Washington and Lee with all of its
marvelous and venerable qualities
is a living institution that must

be fed daily in many respects”

pression on me, not only through my father, but through
my own rewarding experience. The Honor System has
been the core of the structure on which I operate every
day. It is really extremely deep-rooted within me.

W&L: What do you feel to be the qualities of a good
Trustee?

Warner: I will address two categories of quality: First
is independence of thinking, and second is really a love
for Washington and Lee and the things it stands for—
a desire to promote those principles not only within
the University but away from the University. In other
words, it is a way of life. Washington and Lee has
changed relatively little in its basic tenets; nevertheless,
I feel it has kept stride with the times.

A Trustee must be able to give of his time. You
cannot do it on an honorary basis or a symbolic basis.
I find time to talk with President Huntley by phone
frequently, to attend executive committee meetings, and
to the extent possible the Board meetings. And as I
say I purposely carved out this time from my public
service responsibilities.

A certain segment of the Board should have experi-
ence in the business and professional community be-
cause fund raising is an integral part of the Univer-
sity’s life. It’s a fact of life. It’s not necessarily a desir-
able thing for any of us, but for Washington and Lee,
which receives minimal support from government
sources, it’s life or death. And we must assist the Presi-
dent in that role.

W&L: There seems to be a feeling among some alumni
and friends that Washington and Lee is well off. How
do you overcome that attitude?

Warner: I can’t possibly comprehend what the genesis
of that thinking might be. The University has a very
modest endowment, and it has an aging capital plant
which is in the process of modernization, namely
the law school and the library. I just don’t understand
how anyone can take the liberty of thinking the Uni-
versity is self-sufficient and needs no more. I regrettably
say that such people are oblivious to reality. Washing-
ton and Lee with all of its marvelous and venerable
qualities is a living institution that must be fed daily in
many respects—not the least of which is the augmenta-

12

OUT! On

  

N
& %,
> ~S
O at
rd 2
1, Cd s
5. ~

776 491°

tion of its financial structure. I saw Yale go out for a
fantastic sum of $380 million. Not only is it frightening
that the institution required that much, but when you
recognize the end product of $380 million it is suddenly
an enormous, impersonal type of institution. And I
must say I have counted myself among those who wish
to contain Washington and Lee within the reasonable
limits of both capital plant and student numbers—with-
in reasonable limits of the current figures.

W&L: You obviousty then are optimistic toward the
future?

WarRNER: Yes, for the reason that Washington and
Lee is unique in the sense that there are very few in-
stitutions in the United States which can offer those
great qualities that we have preserved through these
many years. T’ake the issue of coeducation for example.
I believe the Board should address that issue at least
once a year to determine the consensus of the times.
How many institutions of the type of Washington and
Lee can still offer the all-male educational system? Is
there not a need within the United States for a con-

tinuation of a number of those institutions, and what is

that number today? It is dwindling; it is inconsequen-
tial.

WkL: Do you have a particular message for the
Washington and Lee constituency?

WARNER: My message would be “count your bless-
ings’’—those who are fortunate enough to be on cam-
pus today, either on the faculty or in the student body,
because you are enjoying one of the finest things that
remain in this country. To its alumni I would say
“count your blessings’ that you are fortunate enough
to be among the few to have shared one another and to
have shared the heritage of our great University.

Editor’s Note: In addition to Trustee John W. War-
ner, other Washington and Lee men are playing impor-
tant roles in preparing for the American Bicentennial.
In Virginia, the Commonwealth Bicentennial Commis-
ston has as its chairman Del. Lewis A. McMurran, a
1936 WeL graduate, and its executive director 1s Parke
S. Rouse, Jr., a 1937 graduate, who 1s director of The
Jamestown Foundation in Williamsburg.

WeL

ron

W&L plans many Bicentennial events
on the campus and across the nation

 

Treasurer James W. Whitehead, named director of the University’s Bicentennial planning, poses with part of the Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain, which will be shown at many major museums.

Washington and Lee, with its
unique ties to the nation’s heritage,
has begun in earnest to prepare its
own observance of the American Bi-
centennial — with on-campus _pro-
grams and activities and_ events
throughout the country as well.

The two-year observance will fo-
cus on the historic role Washington
and Lee played in the development
of the United States and on its in-
timate connection with people and
events of importance in the creation
and early days of the Republic.

Washington and Lee was founded
27 years before the signing of the
Declaration of Independence, and

April 1974

this year as it begins its American
Bicentennial observance the Uni-
versity celebrates its own 225th an-
niversary.

“Washington and Lee is in an ex-
traordinary position to contribute to
the American Bicentennial,’ com-
ments James W. Whitehead, the Uni-
versity’s treasurer and secretary of
the Board of Trustees. Whitehead
has been designated by the Board to
direct planning at Washington and
Lee for the American Bicentennial.

The initial phase of the Univer-
sity’s comprehensive Development
Program is scheduled to conclude in
1976, which will be the 200th anni-

versary of the rebellious change in
the institution’s name from Augusta
Academy to Liberty Hall.. That first
phase of the Development Program
seeks $36 million for endowment and
improved capital facilities.

One of the most important off-
campus elements in the W&L pro-
gram will be a touring exhibition to
galleries throughout the country of
17 historically important portraits
from the University’s Washington-
Custis-Lee Collection of 18th and
early-19th century paintings. Among
those on tour will be the famous
paintings by Charles Willson Peale
of George Washington (in the uni-

13

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charles Willson Peale’s portraits of Lafayette (left) and of Washington will be among

 

WeL’s touring exhibition of historically important paintings.

   

es

 

ir ae SETS See 3M Sg ki eo Pg 2
ee AS ww iat aoe ay oA ee ON et A eat ee 4 es oC
oe et ie as. Bt WP OF. Set Se ar. oS Part SP PRT Ez - Hin: ath = ie

This is a Michael Miley (1841-1918) photograph of the historic ruins of Liberty Hall,

 

where an archaeological “dig” is already under way.

ters of Lee and Washington and
their families, and other papers of
significance in the University’s his-
tory and that of the nation.

@ Research projects in a large
number of fields, including early stu-
dent life, the institution’s participa-
tion in the Revolutionary War, indi-
viduals who played prominent roles

April 1974

in the development of the college,
and distinguished alumni.

Also in conjunction with its ob-
servance of the Bicentennial, Wash-
ington and Lee has deeded Virginia’s
last one-room schoolhouse, the Moun-
tain Gap School near Leesburg, to
the National Trust for Historic Pre-
servation. The school building was

bequeathed to the University by the
late Wilbur C. Hall, a graduate of
the law school and of Washing-
ton and Lee. Hall was vitally inter-
ested in preserving his “little red
schoolhouse” and acquired it after it
ceased operation in 1953. When Hall
died two years ago, he left a $1.5-mil-
lion bequest to the law portion of
the Development Program — and the
Mountain Gap School, with the re-
quest that W&L continue his efforts
to assure its preservation. In keeping
with his wishes, Washington and Lee
donated it to the National Trust, and
a ceremony May 4 commemorated
both Hall’s and W&L’s role in pro-
tecting it as a reflection of Virginia’s
heritage.

A number of other American Bi-
centennial programs and _ activities
will be undertaken in the next two
years, according to Whitehead — both
on campus and off. Supervising the
University’s plans for the observance
is an eight-member steering commit-
tee, of which Whitehead is chairman.
Faculty members named to the panel
by President Huntley are Dr. Mc-
Daniel, who is directing the Liberty
Hall archaeological ‘‘dig;’’ Dr. I. ‘Tay-
lor Sanders II, assistant history pro-
fessor and University historian; Dr.
Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of
English; Dr. William W. Pusey III,
professor of German and department
head; and Maurice D. Leach Jr., Uni-
versity librarian. President Huntley
has also designated two W&L jun-
iors, Hannes F. Van Wagenberg of
Princess Anne, Md., and Charles N.
Watson Jr. of Kingsport, ‘Tenn., as
student members of the steering com-
mittee.

—Robert S. Keefe

15

George S. Arnold:

portrait of a

generous alumnus

 

aa

 

George S. Arnold is one of the
most financially successful men in
Romney, W.Va., and he intends to
leave all of his wealth to Washington
and Lee.

He wants to do this, he said in a
recent conversation about his life
and values, because he understands
that Washington and Lee has great
financial needs, and he is confident
that the University will put his hard-
earned fortune to the best use.

Besides, he wants to “help boys
who can’t help themselves” get a
good education, principally boys from
West Virginia and then others. But
ultimately he is willing to let the
University decide the most appropri-
ate use of the bequest that will per-
petuate his memory with an institu-
tion he is helping to endure.

Arnold first attended Washington
and Lee from 1903 to 1905. Then 20
years later he returned at the age
of 40 to study law and earned his
law degree in 1928.

He has already established a large
scholarship fund at Washington and
Lee and has indicated that he plans
to add substantially to the fund each
year. But upon his death, he said, the
University is to have all he has ac-
cumulated—a considerable _ estate
that he has compiled little by little
over a long period of hard work,
frugal living, and astute investments.

“I think education is great,’ he
said. “But I don’t think my ability

 

 

to accumulate came from education.
I have been an accumulator since
I was so high when I had a little
bank in which I put pennies, nickles,
and dimes. Our family has always
been kind of thrifty.”

On April 5, 1974, George Arnold
observed his 89th birthday, healthy,
vigorous, and looking ahead to a
possible 100 years of life. In his
glances back on his life, Washing-
ton and Lee looms large in his mem-
ory. He came to the University first
at the age of 18 with a hand-written
note from his teacher at Potomac
Academy, the late J. E. Hodgson, a
Washington and Lee graduate. The
slip of paper said, “Mr. Arnold is
qualified to attend Washington and
Lee.” President George H. Denny
was satisfied with it and so was Prof.
Alexander L. Nelson, a mathematics
teacher who had been on the faculty
under President Robert E. Lee.
Mathematics was Arnold’s favorite
subject, and he “made all of his
tickets” (grades), although he found
calculus a little difficult.

“I was an humble sort of boy
then,” he said. “I didn’t cut much of
a figure at Washington and Lee and
was only a fair student. But I be-
haved myself. I have never drunk
whiskey. I have never smoked, and
recently I have given up coffee and
tea. I don’t see how anyone who
wants to live can smoke.”

In 1905, he returned home—a 600-
acre farm nestled between the north
and south forks of the Potomac

River. The land, still intact, has been
in his family since 1842. In the sum-
mer of ’05 his father’s caretaker
drowned in the river, and young
Arnold had to take over the work.

For the next 20 years, he worked
on the farm for $300 a year plus
room and board. He saved most of
his money, and this nest egg became
the basis of his later successful finan-
cial ventures.

In 1922, at the age of 37, he mar-
ried and that was the beginning of
his second association with Wash-
ington and Lee—this time in the
School of Law.

“IT really liked the study of law,”
he said. “I was determined to lead
the class if I could. I was the oldest.
Because of my age and experience,
I had a practical advantage and un-
derstood that the law is based on
right and justice.”

He did rank second in his class
the final year, beating out a Phi Beta
Kappa who wound up third.

It was during his law school
years that he came to know and ad-
mire the late Clayton Epes Williams,
professor of law and later dean. He
was also an admirer of the then Dean
William H. Moreland. Arnold and
Williams established a lasting friend-
ship, and Williams was a frequent
visitor in the Arnold home.

Arnold established a law office,
but discontinued his practice after
several years. He had many interests

WeL

 

Sh

Se
a
es

PR

 

 

 

 

 

 

Head Librarian Maurice D.
Leach, Jr., says of McCor-
mick: “We are in the
midst of a space crisis.”

dolph and Harry St. George Tucker, Reid White, and
other important figures in University and national his-
tory. But McCormick is seriously short of space to per-
mit safe and convenient access to such materials.

Libraries are for pleasure, too, and McCormick main-
tains a fine collection of popular magazines and books
for browsing, relaxation, and what Head Librarian
Maurice D. Leach, Jr., calls “relieving the tension of
exams.” (One of his discoveries: Punch is among the
most sought-after of the magazines, and along with the
newsmagazines “seems constantly being read.”)

As the intensity of student and faculty use of Mc-
Cormick has increased, so have the demands placed on
the professional staff. McCormick’s reference staff han-
dled more than 4,000 inquiries last year—a 25 per cent
increase over the figure for the year before. Book circula-
tion was up 15 per cent, to 34,000 volumes. The library
maintained subscriptions to nearly a thousand periodi-
cals and continued to add significantly to its microfilm
collection as well.

To administer an operation of that magnitude re-
quires a highly talented staff, and in that respect Mc-
Cormick excels. Head Librarian Leach works with a
staff of five professionals with graduate degrees in li-
brary science—in technical services, cataloguing, acquisi-
tions, and reference and public services—and a full-time
staff of 12 assistants. In addition, some 6,000 hours a
year of work are performed by paid student assistants.
About half of those hours are performed by students
under the work-study program that helps them earn
part of the cost of a Washington and Lee education.

In recent years, the library has been made even more
accessible to students and teachers than before. Books
can now be checked out for the entire term (subject only
to a call-back if other students or teachers need them).
Microfilm readers and printers are now located in the
reference room—hardly an ideal location, but available

 

20

now whenever the library is open. And it 7s open more
than 100 hours a week, which compares favorably with
any other small-college library. (During the Fall and
Winter Terms, McCormick remains open until midnight
seven days a week—a policy recently instituted in re-
sponse to student requests—and until 3 a.m. during final
examinations and the week preceding them.)

The annual cost of operating McCormick is, as one
would expect, considerable: $267,735 last year, repre-
senting 5.2 per cent of the overall University budget.

Like any repository of culture, a library is partly a
reflection of its proprietor. Head Librarian Leach sees
three objectives for McCormick, now and in the future:

“To supplement and complement the University’s
formal programs of instruction; to encourage students
—and others—to acquire first-hand experience with a
wide variety of learning resources; and to promote a
deliberate effort toward self-development.” And it all
should occur, he adds, “in a facility that is comfortable
to use.”

Students appreciate that quality; they are glad to
be allowed to put their feet up on a study table if they
like, or to take a quick nap in the Browsing Room
(known to wags as the Drowsing Room), and in return
they demonstrate what Prof. Leach calls ‘‘a remarkable
sense of responsibility in the library—a warm resepct for
the facilities and resources they find here.”

But McCormick remains physically inadequate. Not
only is it becoming impossible to jam additional books
onto the shelves. The building is structurally rigid, and
there is no more space to be rearranged. Staff members
are scattered throughout the library on three floors, im-
posing a debilitating measure of inefficiency in their
own operations and making them less available than
they should be—and want to be—to student users.

“We are,” Leach states, “in the midst of a space
crisis.

 

WeL

 

 

Biologist is PBK speaker;

English professor honored

Dr. Arthur G. Galston, professor of
biology at Yale University and a cham-
pion of “social responsibility” among
scientists, delivered the annual Phi Beta
Kappa address on March 21
Chapel.

Dr. Galston, whose field of research
specialization is plant physiology and
growth, used an example from his own
experience in

in Lee

the use of
peacetime scientific research for military
purposes without prior investigation of
the consequences. He referred to a
chemical defoliation practice used in

criticizing

Vietnam which was derived from research
in which he had originally participated.
The original research was designed to
increase plant and crop productivity.
But it was learned that when used in
excessive amounts, it killed vegetation.

He argued that scientists should not
change the nature of itheir research, but
should instead become concerned with
the ways their findings are applied. He
criticized segments of the scientific com-
munity for timidity and aversion to ac-
cepting social responsibility.

Later in the day, 39 seniors, 10 jun-
iors, two 1973 graduates, and a W&L
professor, Dr. H. Robert Huntley, were
inducted into W&L’s Gamma of Virginia
chapter of Phi Beta Kappa.

Dr. Huntley, a professor of English,
was elected to honorary membership.
He has been on the W&L faculty since
1962, holds the Ph. D. from Wisconsin.
His book, The Alien Protagonist of Ford
Maddox Ford, was published by the Uni-
versity of North Carolina Press two
years ago.

The seniors initiated were: Scott S.
Ainslie, Alexandria, Va.; Gary M. Ar-
thur, Glasgow, Va.; William L. Baldwin,
Northridge, Calif.; James H. Beaty, Jr.,
Memphis, John N. Benziger,

April 1974

Tenn.;

Culpeper, Va.; Gary C. Bingham, Fay-
etteville, N. C.; Wilson E. Blain, High-
land, Ind.; Chester F. Burgess, III, Lex-
ington, Va.; Timothy C. Conner, Atlan-
ta, Ga.; Kevin J. Coppersmith, San
Marino, Calif.; David D. Dahl, Burling-
ton, N. C.; Robert E. Evans, Milledge-
ville, Ga.; Michael Guroian, Stamford,
Conn.;

Craig M. Hankins, Bridgeton, N. J.;
Richard C. Haydon, III, Manassas, Va.;
Richard A. Jenkins, Sparta, N. J.; Dun-
can S. Klinedinst, Bethesda, Md.; Philip
J. Krampf, Plainfield, N. J.; Floyd W.
Lewis, Jr., New Orleans, La.; Donald
McBride, Englewood, N. J.; Joseph P.
McMenamin, York, Pa.; Geoffrey N. No-
lan, Atlanta, Ga.; Donald K. Payne, Ty-
ler, Tex.; Thomas W. Peard, Atlanta,
Ga.;. William D. Piner, Winston-Salem,
N. C.; Clayton T. Ramsay, Wentzville,
Mo.;

Herbert R. Rubenstein, Shreveport,
La.; Gordon F. Saunders, Lexington, Va.;
John N. Stack, Jr., Registerstown, Md.;
Martin E. Stein, Jr., Jacksonville, Fla.;

 

At left, Dr. Arthur G. Galston addresses
Phi Beta Kappa convocation. At right,
English Prof. H. Robert Huntley,

who was elected to honorary membership.

Richard K. Stuart, Jr., Arlington, Va.;
Charles E. Taylor, Richmond, Va.; Al-
fred C. Thullbery, Jr., Lake Wales, Fla.;
John S. Wallace, Charlotte, N. C.; John
C. Weitnauer, Decatur, Ga.; Philip B.
Willis, Huntsville, Ala.; James K. Wood,
Doswell, Va.; John P. Woodley, Jr.,
Shreveport, La.; Amos A. Workman,
Charleston, W. Va.

Elected to Phi Beta Kappa as juniors
were: Lawrence B. Cahoon, Centerville,
Md.; Robert H. Crawford, Dallas, Tex.;
David P. Dempsher, Wayne, Pa.; Charles
F. Gholson, Clarksville, Md.; David G.
Graham, Lutherville, Md.; Donald D.
Hogle, W. Palm Beach, Fla.; David S.
McAlister, Huntsville, Ark.; Michael J.
Seleznick, New York, N. Y.; Preston R.
Simpson, Cincinnati, Ohio; Leon W.
Warren, Jr., Pensacola, Fla.

June 1973 graduates elected were
Alan W. Black, Commack, N. Y., and
Robert M. Hemm, Pelham, N. Y.

21

by Paul J. Lancaster, ’75

10th annual Contact concentrates
on ‘Contemporary Communications’

The author is a junior from Dunkirk,
N.Y., and editor-in-chief this year of the
Ring-tum Phi.

Director William Friedkin called it
“a kind of illusive thing.”

He was talking about communica-
tions—the theme of this year’s Contact
speakers symposium. Friedkin was one of
Contact’s four presentations to the Wash-
ington and Lee and Lexington communi-
ties in late February and early March.

The program, now in its 10th year,
drew an estimated 2,600 persons to the
four presentations given under the
theme of “Contemporary Communica-
tions.” Co-chairmen of this year’s Contact
were Chris Harris, a senior from Jack-
son, Tenn., and Harrison Turnbull, a
junior from Richmond, Va.

Sports essayist Heywood Hale Broun
opened this year’s Contact Feb. 25, de-
scribing the art of his profession to
nearly 600 persons in Lee Chapel. Broun,
featured weekly on the CBS Saturday
Evening News, wove his multi-syllabic
words into a patchwork of tales as color-
ful as the patchwork sportscoat he wore.

Broun said he strives to report more
than just a sports event; he reports the
characters behind the event. He put in a
good word for inaccuracy with the Lee
Chapel audience, describing his own re-
portorial style as “the poetry and facts
I can summon up at the moment.”
who em-
ploys seven dictionaries in his never-
ending search for just the right word at
the right time, said he seeks to present
the essence of an event in his stories. Cit-
ing examples, Broun explained that the
essence of the first Super Bowl was the
fact that the halftime show—and not the
game itself—highlighted the whole affair,

The actor-turned-essayist,

and he reported it as such.

22

One week later, Contact moved from
sports essayist to political satirist as col-
umnist Art Buchwald packed more than
1,100 persons into the bleachers of Dore-
mus Gym. Buchwald’s topic? Watergate,
of course.

He made reference to nearly every
personality involved in the Watergate
scandal, from Richard Nixon (“I wor-
ship the very quicksand he walks on,”
said Buchwald) to Nixon’s secretary, Rose
Mary Woods (the satirist noted that to
be a secretary at the White House now-
adays, “You have to be able to erase
120 words a minute.”).

Climaxing Buchwald’s Watergate lec-
ture was a slide show on the ‘topic, inter-
spersed with verbal commentary attacking
nearly everybody in Washington, no mat-
ter what his political affiliation. Speak-
ing of unsuccessful Democratic presi-
candidate McGovern,

dential George

Buchwald said, “Now, there’s a man who
wanted to run for president in the
worst way ... and he did.”

Buchwald, as had Broun a week ear-
lier, followed up his talk with a ques-
tion-and-answer period and an informal
talk with a small group of students.

Contact turned the following Wednes-
day to a different sort of communica-
tion—that accomplished through the tal-
ents of the musical group Oregon.

The group—Paul McCandless, Collin
Walcott, Ralph Towner, Glenn Moore—
synthesized a world musical heritage into
a three-hour performance before 300
persons in Lee Chapel Wednesday night.
The four musicians utilized some 15 to
20 different instruments in communicat-
ing their music to the crowd.

Perhaps the most unique thing about
the group’s appearance at Washington
and Lee was a “jam session’ held the

 

Film Director William Friedkin eats a cracker during a rap session.

WeL

 

a

%,
baa tet
* Ye + eae
: 34 "
Ae bj ih 5 hee eo
i ays ee
a igs 74 thGe es tia fs
aca CR OP ae aa :

 

Musical group Oregon holds a “jam session” in the University Center.

Art Buchwald packs them in for a lecture in Doremus Gymnaisum.

April 1974

 

next day, March 7, in the University
Center. Oregon shared its knowledge
and talent in a musical “workshop” in
the University Center with a small band
of students interested in the intricacies
of musical communication.

That night, 650 persons packed Lex-
ington’s State Theatre by 7:45 for the
8:30 presentation of Contact’s final
speaker of the two-week symposium, di-
rector William Friedkin.

The Academy Award-winning director
of The French Connection and The
Exorcist utilized film clips from both
those films in explaining his role as a
communicator. He said for a film to
communicate properly, it has to “make
(the audience) laugh, cry, or be scared.”
The Exorcist is certainly communicating
to its audiénce in that last sense.

Friedkin spoke of the effects of The
Exorcist upon its audience, discrediting
reports of masses of people fainting,
vomiting, or running out of the theatre.
He said the reports were vastly overex-
aggerated, noting that such a film would
be ‘“‘very bad for popcorn sales, to say
the least.”

In concluding his two-and-a-half hour
talk, Friedkin promised the crowd at the
State Theatre to bring The Exorcist to
Lexington for a four-week run in the
Spring Term, by-passing current con-
tracts which require that the movie only
be shown in about 120 US. cities at the
present time for 26-week runs.

With a surplus of funds, Contact ex-
pects to bring one and possibly two
more speakers to Washington and Lee
this spring. Earlier in the school year,
Contact co-sponsored a documentary pre-
sentation entitled Who Killed JFK? and
sponsored a talk on the energy crisis
by U. S. Energy Commission Chairman
John J. McKetta.

23

by John Hughes

Basketball team ‘hangs in there’
to record Sth winning season

Washington and Lee’s 1973-74 bas-
ketball team won eight of its last nine
games to maintain another W&L. tradi-
tion: that of winning basketball sea-
sons. The 13-11 final season record mark-
ed the eighth consecutive year Coach
Verne Canfield’s charges have been win-
ners.

Another tradition standing almost as
long is a winning swimming season, and
Coach Bill Stearns’ team didn’t disap-
point, posting a 6-3 record for the year.
The highlight was a hard-earned triumph
over perennial state power William &
Mary, the first time in 10 years the
Generals have outfought the Indians.

The wrestling team, under new coach
Gary Franke, did not fare as well, but
received some outstanding individual per-
formances. Facing a toughened schedule
and crippled the latter part of the year
by injuries, the wrestling team was 7-
11-1.

The _ basketball
“hung in there” after some early season
setbacks and a string of hard-luck losses
that might have caused a less-disciplined

Generals literally

team to “hang it up.” It seemed the
young and inexper:enced Generals (with
just two seniors, only one of whom had
played much) were snakebit in the early
season. At one point they were 2-7, and
five of those losses were by margins of
3, 3, 2, 1 and 1. Just when W&L began to
regroup with three straight victories, 6-8
center Norm Kristoff was injured at the
most critical point of the schedule and
could not take the floor against three
tough in-state opponents: Madison, Roa-
noke and Randolph-Macon. All three
won over 20 games for the year, and all
played in the NCAA championship tour-
nament.

Those three mid-season losses left
Coach Canfield’s team with a 5-10 over-

24

weir: ATHLE
Tt ti

Sal teat. # ie

 

Skip Lichtfuss lays in two of his season’s 524 points against Baltimore.

all mark, and the future prospects looked
rather dim. But with team captain Skip
Lichtfuss leading the way, they turned
the season completely around with those
eight victories in the last nine games. The
turning point definitely occurred when
W&L pulled out one of those close ones,
a one-point overtime win over Bridge-
water, ran off three more by lop-sided
margins, nearly upset No. 4-ranked Old
ODU
Homecoming crowd of over 5,000, then

Dominion in Norfolk before an

won the last four games—three of them
on the road—for the winning year. Quite
an accomplishment.

The major contributor was Lichtfuss,
who had a fabulous year. He averaged

21.8 points a game and his 524 points
for the season pulled him up to 1,592
for his career, fifth on the all-time list
of W&L scorers. In recent years, the only
players to top him have been Mel Cart-
wright with 1,800 and Mike Daniel with
1,665. Heading the list of all-time scor-
ers is Dom Flora with 2,310, followed by
Jay Handlan with 2,002.

With only Lichtfuss and senior guard
Jerry Porath graduating, the nucleus re-
Included are
three players who all averaged in dou-
ble figures: Kristoff (11.2), guard Bow-
man Williams (10.7) and guard John
Podgajny (11.0), plus regular forwards
Guy Kerr (8.2) and Greg Croghan (7.3).

WeL

turns for next season.

 

 

 

Leigh Williams is installed
in Virginia Hall of Fame

“In my mind he’s the great-
est athlete ever to come to

this school, and I’ve seen
them all for the past 53
years.”

That’s the way Washing-
ton and _ Lee’s’ venerable
coach E. P. (Cy) Twombly
describes Norfolk’s Leigh
Williams, who was installed
posthumously into the Vir-
ginia Hall of Fame in Ports-
mouth on April 26.

Williams, who died of
leukemia in 1940 just a day
short of his 32nd _ birthday,
was one of those rare breeds
of athletes who starred in
several sports. At W&L,
from 1927-32, he earned 16
monograms, four each in
football, basketball, —base-
ball and track.

Basketball and track were
his best, however. As a 6-3
center for coach R. A. (Cap’n
Dick) Smith’s basketball
squads, Williams led _ the
Generals to seasons of 11-0
as a freshman, 16-2 as a
sophomore, 16-4 as a junior,
and 11-6 as a senior. During
that era of the center jump
and low-scoring games, Cap’n

Dick’s W&L squad was
known as the “Point-a-Min-
ute” team, and _ usually

whipped up on its Southern
Conference opponents’ by
scores of 57-12, 65-20, etc.
In track, a sport in which
Williams had never compet-
ed before enrolling at Wash-
ington and Lee, he reigned as
Southern Conference cham-
pion in the 440-yard dash

 

as a junior, and won the race
every time he ran it as a
senior, setting a state record
in that event and anchoring
a record-breaking, state cham-
pion mile-vrelay team. His
best time in the 440 was 49
flat.

In football, Williams play-
ed end. “I once saw him
catch five passes against N.C.
State, three thrown by the
W&L quarterback and two
he intercepted,” recalls
Twombly. “What a pair of
hands he had. He could
palm a basketball, and _ his
hands were so fast that lots
of times you couldn’t follow
the ball.”

In baseball Williams play-
ed first base, but Cap’n Dick
would call on him _ occa-
sionally to pitch. He once
shut out Virginia Tech.

Williams was a team cap-
tain three times in_ two
sports, the freshman _basket-
ball squad, as a senior on
the varsity basketball team,
and as a junior in baseball.
He also served as_ presi-
dent of the Monogram Club
and vice president of the Ath-
letic Association.

How Williams came from
his native Norfolk to Wash-
ington and Lee in the first
place is a fascinating story
—he was recruited by a W&L
football manager named
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., now a
U.S. Supreme Court Justice.
Here’s the way Cap’n Dick
Smith tells it:

“Lewis Powell was man-

 

Leigh Williams

ager of the football team,
and I called him into my
office one day. I told him
‘There is a boy in Norfolk
who is the greatest athlete
in the state. His name is
Leigh Williams and _ he’s
going to VPI unless we con-
vince him otherwise. We
need him badly here at
W&kL. I want you to go to
Norfolk and bring him back
with you.”

Cap’n Dick quoted young
Powell’s reply: “I'll do what-
ever you want me to do.”

“I don’t remember how
many days Lewis was in
Norfolk,” Cap’n Dick con-
tinued, ‘‘three or four. But

 

 

Leigh’s parents fell in love
with him. They agreed that
W&L was the school for
Leigh—with one proviso.
They wanted Leigh to room
with Lewis Powell.”

That presented somewhat
of a problem, however, since
Powell was also manager of
Phi Kappa Sigma social fra-
ternity and as such was re-
quired to live in the frater-
nity house. The enterprising
Powell worked around that
obstacle through the simple
expedient of having Williams
pledged to the fraternity and
becoming his college room-
mate.

So with Lewis Powell as
team manager and room-
mate, it’s not surprising
young Leigh Williams was to
make a name for himself.
And another W&L alumnus
who has become well-known
in judicial circles also may
have been an influence: the
line coach for the 1929 W&L
football team while he at-
tended the W&L Law School
was Walter E. (Beefy) Hoff-
man, now a U.S. _ District
Judge in Norfolk.

After graduation from
WkL in 1932, Williams
taught and _ coached for

three years at Augusta Mili-
tary Academy, and then re-
turned to Norfolk to enter

the insurance business.
(W&L’s Cy Young, 17, and
Bob Spessard, ’39, were pre-
viously installed in the Vir-

ginia Hall of Fame.)
—John Hughes

 

26

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

D. K. Frith, ’57

Judge Swift in the business of dignity on
the bench,” and continued “one was aware
of the presence of an umpire attempting to
be fair at all times, but never distracted by
the personality of an umpire attempting to
dominate the play.”

1940

Dr. ANDREW M. Moore of Lexington, Ky.,
has been named president-elect of the
Southern Medical Association. He has served
in each office of the Section on Plastic and
Reconstruction Surgery, as councilor from
Kentucky, a member of the Executive Com-
mittee of the Council, and as vice chairman
of the Council, in addition to his several
committee appointments. Dr. Moore is a
past president of the Fayette County Medi-
cal Society, the Southeastern Society of Plas-
tic and Reconstructive Surgery, and the
Ohio Valley Plastic Surgery Society.

C. Epwarp B air is director of sales for
Armco Steel Corp. He lives in Middletown,

Ohio.
1941

WILLIAM J. DoucLas joined Kenilworth State
Bank in Kenilworth, N. J., in September,
1972, as vice president and treasurer.

1944

CLARENCE E. (CLANCY ) BALLENGER, JR., con-
tinues to rank high with the racquet. Clan-
cy, a member of the Spartanburg, S. C.,
Squash Racquet Club, is seeded No. 1 in the
state. The Spartanburg Squash Club re-
cently won the 4th annual South Carolina
Championship matches played in Columbia.

1946

Dr. DAvin LEwis, a dentist who went into
teaching at Wheaton High School in Wheat-
on, Md., was recently named athletic di-
rector at the school. He was formerly foot-
ball and wrestling coach.

1947

LesTER D. WALLERSTEIN, JR., is a_ single
housing appraiser on the staff of Housing
and Urban Development/FHA in Rich-
mond. He was formerly with FHA in Flint,

Mich.
1948

Howard M. FENDER, an attorney in Fort
Worth, Tex., is serving with the Tarrant
County District Attorney’s office.

28

1949

JAMEs T. MAGRUDER has been appointed staff
associate for interpretation, Division of In-
ternational Mission, General Executive
Board of the Presbyterian Church, U. &.,
with headquarters in Atlanta, Ga.

1951

WILLIAM H. KYLE, JR., has for some years
been connected with Pickands Mather & Co.
in Tokyo, Japan. Effective March 31, 1974,
Kyle resigned from Pickands Mather and
began a new venture in Japan under the
trade name of International Business Serv-
ive. IBS was formed to provide representa-
tion for American companies that have or
desire to have business relationships in Asia,
but do not have a need for full-time local
representation. In addition to representing
Pickands Mather’s mining interests, Kyle is
also engaged in oil and gas explorations,
chemicals, paint, and industrial equipment.

1952

JULIAN B. Monr is president of Momar Ex-
port, Inc., of Atlanta. The firm has started
additional manufacturing plants for pro-
duction and maintenance chemicals in Stour-
port and London, England, in Vernon,
France, and in Johannesburg, South Africa.

£955

BRANTLEY BArR has joined Dean Witter and
Co., Inc., as assistant vice president of their
municipal investment banking department
in Florida. Barr was previously Assisant Vice
President of Blyth Eastman Dillon and Co.
in New York. He and his wife and three
children live in Sunrise, Fla., near Fort
Lauderdale.

JAROSLAV (JOSHA) DRABEK has recently be-
come house counsel for American Flange and
Manufacturing Co. with offices in New York
City in Rockefeller Center.

1955

WALK C. Jones, III, is president of Walk
Jones and Francis Mah Architects in Mem-
phis. He and his wife, the former Gayden
R. Caskey, have five children.

1956

JoHN ELuis of New York City is a senior
associate in the architectural firm of Ezra
Ehrenkrantz and Associates, involved in the
design of college and hospital buildings. He

also teaches architectural courses at Pratt
Institute in Brooklyn.

1957

DoucLas K. FRITH, a Martinsville, Va., at-
torney, has been named to the board of
directors of Virginia National Bank/Henry
County. Frith also serves as a_ substitute
judge in the General District Courts and
the Juvenile and Domestic Relations Dis-
trict Courts of Martinsville and Henry
County. He is vice president of the Estate
Planning Council of Martinsville, past presi-
dent of the Martinsville-Henry County Bar
Association, and a member of the board of
governors of the Virginia Trial Lawyers As-
sociation. Frith has taken a very active per-
sonal interest in community and civic af-
fairs. He is a former vice president of the
Martinsville Jaycees and a member of the
Martinsville-Henry County Chamber of Com-
merce. He and his wife, the former Ella
Tuck, have two daughters.

1958

Croom Beatty, IV, is director of Financial
Aid at Duke University.

Since graduation, HARRY Moses has engaged
in the television business. He is a producer
specializing in documentaries. For the past
year Moses has been employed by CBS News
on the program, “60 Minutes.” He is mar-
ried to the former Judith Kaufman and
they live in New York City with their
daughter.

After practicing radiology for two years in
Georgia, Dr. Davin M. NICHOLS, completed a
three-year residency in psychiatry. He has
now started private practice in Atlanta. He
is married to the former Janice Lynn Heitz-
man of Cedar Rapids, and they have a
daughter.

S. Scotr WHIPPLE has joined Xerox Learn-
ing Systems as production editor. He edits
management development programs.

196]

WILLIAM N. MARTIN was recently promoted
to Director, Corporate Planning for Aetna
Life & Casualty Co. of West Hartford, Conn.

PETER T. STRAUB, a former minority coun-
sel for the House Judiciary Committee,
has been named director of the Office of
Criminal Justice. The office is responsible
for providing the Attorney General long-
range plans and for development of initia-

WeL

 

R. W. Fauber, ’63

tives in the field of criminal justice. Straub
formerly served as counsel to the House Sub-
committee on Claims and Governmental Re-
lations. From 1971 to 1973, he was an at-
torney in the Internal Security Division and
was an advisor in the Office of Criminal Jus-
tice. He served as Assistant U. S. Attorney
in St. Louis, Mo., from 1969 to 1971. He and
his wife, Wendy, have two children, and
the family lives in Alexandria, Va.

1962

JOHN A. MartTIN, after completing his mas-
ter’s in social work at Hunter College School
of Social Work in New York City, is cur-
rently doing individual and group therapy at
the Tappan Lee Mental Health Clinic in
North Tarrytown, N. Y.

Dr. C. MARK WHITEHEAD, JR., after com-
pleting his urology residency at the Alton
Ochsner Medical Foundation in July 1973,
now resides in LaGrange, Ga., where he is
in practice at the Clark-Holder Clinic, a
multi-speciality group. He and his wife have
two sons.

JoHN P. WHITE is practicing law in Easton,
Md. He and his wife, the former Clarissa
T. Yost, have two sons.

Barry A. BANK of Chase City, Va., has been
named treasurer and assistant secretary of
JonBil Manufacturing Co., manufacturers of
private label jeans at plants in Virginia and
North Carolina.

Dr. MICHAEL J. SPALDING entered the pri-
vate practice of urology in Nashville, Tenn.,

in July 1973.
1963

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN R. UHLIG, II, a
son, John Davis, on March 5, 1974. Uhlig is
in the commercial property development
business in the Baltimore area.

CLARENCE RENSHAW is a_ reporter and
photographer and producer at KPRC-TV
(NBC) in DeWalt, Tex. He and his wife have
two sons and operate a small country gro-
cery store.

CHARLEs S. (CHUCK) LANE, former public re-
lations director of the Green Bay Packers,
has recently joined Bart Starr Distributors,
Inc., as an associate and as vice president
and marketing director.

ROpGER W. FauBeR, senior vice president of
the Fidelity National Bank of Lynchburg,

April 1974

Va., has accepted the post of general cam-
paign chairman for the Lynchburg General-
Marshall Lodge Hospitals. The campaign
seeks funds from the Greater Lynchburg
area to remodel and improve overcrowded
patient-service departments. Fauber joined
Fidelity National Bank in 1965 as a man-
agement trainee and was named, succes-
sively, assistant cashier, assistant vice presi-
dent and vice president before his appoint-
ment as senior vice president in 1973. He is
a trustee of the Academy of Music Theatre,
and past president of the United Givers
Fund and of Central Lynchburg, Inc.

E. PHILLIP MCCALEB of Craddocksville, Va.,
attended the agents advanced seminar spon-
sored by the Continental Insurance Co. He
is chairman of the Girl Scout fund drive for
the Eastern Shore of Virginia and was
recently appointed education officer of Dis-
trict 12, Virginia of Ancient Free and Ac-

cepted Masons.
1964

BRITAIN H. BRYANT now represents the Dis-
trict of St. Croix as a senator in the Virgin
Islands legislature. A practicing lawyer in
Christiansted, St. Croix, Bryant is a former
secretary and director of the St. Croix Cham-
ber of Commerce, and former vice presi-
dent of Virgin Island Bar Association. He
is currently a director of St. Croix Chapter
of National American Red Cross.

PETER T. STRAUB, LL.B. (see 1961)

1965

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CoNsiIpDER W. Ross, a
daughter, Katherine, on Dec. 28, 1973. Ross
was recently promoted to second vice presi-
dent, International Department, North
American Division Head, for Northern Trust
Co. of Chicago.

JosePpH Woop RUTTER is presently chairman
of the language department at Salisbury
School in Salisbury, Conn., and is an assis-
tant director of admissions.

RONALD J. KAYE is in the Marine Corps and
currently assigned to the Office of Judge
Advocate General of the U. S. Navy. He
was selected to attend the National Law
Center at George Washington University for
an L.L.M. in criminal law. He will begin in
September, 1974. Kaye and his wife, Bar-
bara, have two sons.

Dr. Brooks G. Brown, III, is serving as
ophthalmologist for the U. S. Naval Aca-

demy and the Naval Hospital. He and his
wife, Elise, have one daughter.

1966

MARRIED: KEN Caro to Christine Stahlein
on Dec. 1, 1973. Among the wedding party
was Ed Wood, ’66.

PEGRAM JOHNSON, III, after graduation from
law school, is now in the new business sec-
tion of the trust department of Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N. C.

HARRY G. GOODHEART, III, is an associate
in the law firm of Mann, Fay, and Price in
Bradenton, Fla., where he is primarily do-
ing trial work.

LARRY L. GEORGE received his Ph.D. degree
in German language and literature from
Michigan State University in June, 1971.
Since then he has been assistant professor
of foreign languages and coordinator of the
German section at Southwest Missouri State
University in Springfield, Mo. He and his
wife, the former Marcia Ann Stehower, have

two children.
1967

‘THOMAS J. HARDIN, II, has been promoted
to investment officer by North Carolina Na-
tional Bank in Charlotte, N. C. Hardin
joined NCNB in 1972 as a security analyst
in the bank’s investment research depart-
ment.

GALEN ANDERSEN is president of Nokota Co.
of Bismark, N. D., which is engaged in lig-
nite mining. Andersen recently visited Eu-
rope to gather mining information. His im-
pressions of German mining were “massive
size, the continuous conveyors, the bucket
wheels.” The Germans, he observed, are
very ecology minded, making their coal
mines into public recreation and wildlife
habitat areas.

EDWARD E. (NED) BATES, JR., graduated from
the University of Georgia Law School in
June, 1972, where he was executive editor
of The Georgia Journal of International
and Comparative Law. He is now a practic-
ing attorney in Atlanta.

1968

MARRIED: Robert H. MOLL to Victoria Lee
Cousins on Feb. 16, 1974. Moll also has a
law degree from Temple University.

After a year of clerkship in the U. S. 4th
Circuit Court of Appeals, Davin E. Bass is

29

currently an attorney advisor in the Gen-
eral Counsels office of the Civil Aeronautics

Board.
1969

WILLIAM H. CraFT, after serving four years
with the U. S. Navy, is now with Royster
Co. of Norfolk as an internal auditor.

While seeking an M.B.A. in economics at
NYU night school, WILLIAM A. 'TIMMERMAN
is a second vice president in the interna-
tional department of the Chase Manhattan
Bank in New York in the International Com-
modity Financing Division.

1970

JAcK ARTHUR KIRBY is on active Navy duty
as head of the Military Justice Department
for the Fourth Naval District, Philadelphia.

1971

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. FRANKLIN R. RICH, a
daughter, Pamela Reece, on Oct. 8, 1973. The
family lives in Arlington, Va.

Since 1971, WALTON M. JEFFRESS, JR., has
been stationed in Kaiserslautern, West Ger-
many, with the Army’s Judge Advocate Gen-
erals’ Corps.

JoHN P. Wuite, L.L.B. (see 1962)

JAMEs M. Stay, JR., an attorney in Anna-
polis, Md., was recently appointed to the
Governor’s staff as assistant to the Secre-
tary of State.

STEVEN LEE HAWLEY is with the Peace Corps
in Togo, Africa, as a supervisor of well dig-
ging and construction.

E. STAMAN OGILVIE, after receiving an M.B.A.
from Harvard in June, 1973, and a three
month’s tour of Army duty, is now employed
as assistant project manager in the major
projects groups of Gerald D. Hines Interest,
a property management firm in Houston,

Tex.
1972

MARRIED: RANDOLPH LEE-MASSEY HUTTO
to Mary Porter Parker of Milwaukee, Wis.
on Oct. 20, 1973. Among the wedding party
were A. Thomas Fechtel, ’70, Jere David
Field, 70, Dennis Dean Kumpuris, ’70, By-
ron R. Seward, 70, Robert G. Woodward, ’71,
W. Whitlow Wyatt, ’70, and Charles R.
Yates, ’*70. Hutto is currently employed by
Muhlenbrink’s Inc. of Atlanta.

30

MARRIED: LELAND C. CLEMONS to Barbara
Beggs Simons of Fort Worth on Aug. 18,
1973. Among the wedding party were Rich-
ard S. Abernethy, "72, Charles P. Comly, ’72,
Don W. Weir, Jr., 72, and William H. Cle-
mons, 77. After completing his M.B.A. at
Southern Methodist University in June, 1973,
Clemons is now with the First National
Bank in Dallas in their commercial loan of-
ficer training program.

ROBERT P. HESSLER has completed Peace
Corps training for Thailand, where he will
serve for two years as a health volunteer.

D. RANDOLPH GRAHAM was recently promoted
to director of taxation for General Medical
Corp. of Richmond, Va.

1973

LAWRENCE M. CROFT was promoted in Janu-
ary, 1974, to trust planning officer with the
First National Bank of South Carolina in
Columbia.

ROBERT N. FARRAR received his B.A. degree
from the University of Georgia in June,
1973. He is currently studying at Cumber-
land Law School of Samford University in
Birmingham, Ala.

 

In Memoriam

 

1914

WALTER BANKS MEACHAM, JR., of Ft. Mill,
S. C., died Feb. 4, 1974. Meacham was a
retired banker and businessman. He was a
Navy veteran of World War I and a char-
ter member of the American Legion.

1917

EDMOND FREDERICK FISHER, a former purchas-
ing agent for the North American Smelt-
ing Co. of Wilmington, Del., died Nov. 15,
1973. He was councilman for Fenwick Is-
land Township for six years.

1924

FREDERICK NORMAN MERCER, a retired execu-
tive of Mergenthaler Linotype Co. who later
worked with the welfare program of New
York City in connection with Medicaid, died

Sept. 21, 1973.
1930

Dick BuRSON ROUSE, a well-known Bristol,
Va., attorney died Feb. 18, 1974. Rouse had

served as Commonwealth Attorney for Bris-
tol since January, 1958. He was also ap-
pointed City Attorney for Bristol in Janu-
ary, 1971, and served in that post until
his death. Rouse was active in Bristol, Demo-
cratic political affairs, and in 1956 he was
elected as a delegate to the Virginia Con-
stitutional Convention. At the time of his
death, he maintained an office for the gen-
eral practice of law in Bristol and was
local counsel for the Southern Railway Co.

1931

RICHARD MOBERLY DUDLEY WAGERS, a real
estate Management executive and owner and
manager of the Westward Ho Apartments,
Inc., died Feb. 19, 1974, in Phoenix, Ariz.
Wagers was a veteran of World War II. He
served with the U.S. Air Force and _ later
worked for 16 months in military govern-

, 1939

RICHARD OTIS PARMELEE, a food supervisor
for the University of Michigan Woman’s
League until retiring in July, 1973, died
Feb. 5, 1974. Parmelee served with the
Navy during World War II. He was recently
employed by Ann Arbor Federal Savings and
Loan Association.
1935

CHRISTIAN COE MERRITT, a former assistant
controller with Lees Carpets, a division
of Burlington Industries, died Jan. 30, 1974.

1937

HAROLD WAID COCHRAN, JR., president of
Caspers-Lafayette Co., division of the Ball
Corp., died Jan. 6, 1974. Cochran had join-
ed the predecessor of Ball Corp. in 1938 as
assistant to the production manager. He
was president of Casper’s ‘Tin Plate Co., a di-
rector of National Metal Decorators Associa-
tion, and a member of the Canning Ma-
chinery & Supply Association and the Alumi-
num Distributors Association.

1944

THOMAS LEETE STILWELL, formerly vice presi-
dent of Warner and Swasey Co. of Cleve-
land, Ohio, died in August, 1973. Stilwell
joined Warner and Swasey in 1948, was pro-
moted to textile sales manager in 1956, and
to vice president of machine tool sales in
1968. He was very active in civic affairs and
was president of the Vocational Guidance
and Rehabilitation Center.

WeL

—

 

Dr. St. Clair,
retired Rector,

1900-1974

 

Dr. Huston St. Clair, who served
as a Trustee of Washington and Lee
for 28 years, five of them as Rector,
died on March 12, 1974, in Miami,
Fla., at the age of 73. He had been
in declining health for several years.

University President Robert E. R.
Huntley said: “Washington and Lee
will always cherish the memory of
Dr. St. Clair for the nobility of his
spirit, for his steadfast devotion to
the welfare of this University, and
above all for his outstanding human
qualities. His efforts on behalf of
Washington and Lee were untiring,
and the fruits of his leadership will
benefit the University for years to
come.”

Dr. St. Clair, a native of Tazewell,
Va., was a physician who also became
one of Virginia’s leading businessmen.
Since retirement, he had been living
in Surfside, Fla., and Highlands, N.C.

He graduated from Washington
and Lee in 1922 and received his
medical degree from the University of
Medical School four
years later. He practiced medicine in
Philadelphia and Bluefield, W.Va., for
six years until joining Jewell Ridge
Coal Corp. He became president of
the firm and also of the Jewell Ridge
Sales Co.

Dr. St. Clair joined the Univer-
sity Board of Trustees in 1943 and
was named Rector in 1965. As Rec-
tor, he followed the footsteps of his
father, George Walter St. Clair, ’90,
who was Rector from 1928 until his
death in 1939, having become a mem-
ber of the Board in 1901. As a Wash-
ington and Lee Trustee, Dr. St. Clair
served as a member of the execu-

Pennsylvania

tive committee and was one of two

 

Dr. St. Clair administers oath to
President Huntley at 1968 Inaugural.

Trustees who regularly participated
in the selection of George F. Baker
Scholarship recipients. In 1959-60, he
was a leader in the University’s de-
velopment program which provided
capital funds for the construction of
new science and journalism facilities
at the University. As Rector, he pro-
vided the leadership in the transition
of the presidency of the University
from Dr. Fred C. Cole, who resigned
in 1967, to President Huntley, who
assumed office in February, 1968.

Upon his retirement from active
duty on the Board and his elevation
to Trustee emeritus, the Board said
in a resolution of tribute:

“When one looks back on the
28 years of his Trusteeship, one is
aware that this long span of devoted
service coincides with a period of un-
precedented challenge to those who

hold in trust the future of this vener-
able institution. Because we _ have
seen in Dr. St. Clair such qualities of
personal integrity, keen sensitivity,
sound judgment, and certain under-
standing of Washington and Lee’s
educational purpose, we are inspired
by his example in every dimension
of the service we seek to render our
University . . . The warmth of his
friendship, the gentleness of his soft-
spoken manner, and the delightful
nature of his sense of humor are only
a few of the memories we cherish of
our years of companionship and com-
mon endeavor. We are reminded that
these attributes, as much as any others,
made him a most effective Trustee
and Rector of the Board.”

Members of the Board were de-
signated honorary pallbearers at his
funeral in Bal Harbour, Fla., and Dr.
John Newton Thomas, who succeed-
ed him as Rector and is a Presbyterian
minister, assisted in officiating at the
service.

Dr. St. Clair was president of the
Virginia State Chamber of Commerce
from 1944 to 1946 and was a former
member of the executive committee
of the Virginia Manufacturers As-
sociation and a board member of the
National Coal Association. He was
also a member of the board of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges, which raises funds from
businesses in which Washington and
Lee and 11 other private colleges in
Virginia share.

He is survived by his wife, Janet
McClure Hardie St. Clair, a_ son,
Huston St. Clair, Jr., of Miami, and
a daughter, Mrs. William Bussey of

Naples, Fla.

 

 

April 1974

 

31

Do you know where
these alumni are?

 

Roland W. Rochette, ’25
Richard W. Rogers, ’49
Judson H. Rodman, ’55
Charles C. Rogers, Jr., ’40
Frank A. Rogers, III, ’66
James H. Rogers, 26

Paul C. Rogers, 13

Marion T. Simon, °42
Manning A. Simons, ’27
Avington D. Simpson, Jr., ’29
Charles A. Sisson, Jr., ’38
Stephen E. Skidmore, ’33
John H. Slagle, ’28

Augustus B. Slough, ’37

The Alumni Office has no address for the alumni
listed below. Please check the list carefully, and if you
know the whereabouts of any of these lost alumni, send
the information to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. Thank you. Additional lists

of unlocated alumni will be published later.

Paul H. Page, ’26

Alfred P. Palmer, ’57
Louis H. Palmer, ’28
Ernesto A. Paredes, ’11
Edwin C. Parker, Jr., 60
Francis T. Parker, Jr., ’29
John F. Parker, ’30
Josephus D. Parker, Jr., 32
Newton A. Parker, Jr., ’28
Charles W. Parks, ’14
Albert Parlett, Jr., 14
Thearon H. Parsons, Jr., 55
Julian G. Patton, 719
William Paxton, ’11
Edwin J. Payne, ’05
Theodore Pearson, ’43
Veltrie F. Pearson, ’29
Samuel Peerless, ’38
Thomas H. Penny, ’60
Walters B. Perkins, ’06
Henry A. Petter, III, ’38
Marlen Pew, Jr., ’36
Peter J. Phillips, ’07
Robert D. Phillips, Jr., ’50
Ronald W. Phillips, ’54
Samuel L. Phillips, Jr., ’07
Wilbur C. Pickett, Jr., ’52
Berry G. Pierce, Jr., ’43
Marvin D. Pierce, III, ’54
William C. Pierce, ’24
Wilbur D. Pinckard, ’23
Curtis E. Piper, ’29
William Pite, ’33
William W. Pleasants, *53
Paul Poague, ’07
Arminius C. Pole, ’13
James S. Pollak, ’32

John P. Pomeroy, ’45
Arthur E. Pope, ’36
Gerald M. Portner, ’°57
Charles F. Porzig, ’55
Warren M. Posey, ’63
Charles S. Powell, Jr., 46
Horace A. Powell, ’38
Trevor J. Powell, ’17
Okeefe Powers, ’28
James H. Poythress, ’60
Silas M. Preston, ’29
Charles D. Price, ’37
Darrel M. Price, ’32
Sidney H. Price, ’23

32

Kirkland S. Prince, ’26
William S. Prowell, 55
Drew E. Pruit, ’08
Lawson Pugh, ’17

James Raisbeck, Jr., ’22
Harry E. Raisor, ’52

Pleas Ramsey, ’35

Robert D. Ramsey, ’12, 714
Thomas Randall, ’46
Christopher M. Randolph, ’88
Walter W. Rangeley, ’24
Edward R. Rannells, Jr., ’33
Peter K. Ranney, ’54
Joseph J. Ranton, ’96
Burton C. Rawlins, ’32
John D. Ray, Jr., ’54
Thomas R. Rea, Jr., ’59
Daniel R. Reason, ’46
James G. Reed, ’49
Maurice S. Reed, ’13
Robert P. Reese, ’35
Robert C. Reeve, 53

Jack D. Reid, ’47

Philip A. Reidford, ’63
David L. Reinke, ’72
Henry A. Renken, ’29
Oliver H. Reynolds, ’26
Robert I. Reynolds, ’49
John D. Rhodes, ’66
David E. Rice, ’55

Everett E. Rice, Jr., ’60
Robert A. Rice, ’41

Earl L. Richmond, ’31
Alan E. Ricker, ’21
Norman S. Ricker, ’20
Montgomery L. Ridenour, ’26
James F. Riley, Jr., ’24
John P. Riley, 18
Rosario D. Riotto, 52
Charles H. Ripple, ’08
James D. Ritter, ’56, ’60
Joseph C. Rivers, 716
Edmund C. Robbins, 51
James J. Robertson, ’74
Paul R. Robertson, ’60
William F. Robertson, III, ’60
William J. Robertson, Jr., ’44
Charles L. Robinson, ’42
Hayes G. Robinson, ’49
Rowan S. Robinson, ’34
Thomas E. Robinson, ’69

Richard E. Rogers, ’65
Zack B. Rogers, Jr., ’27
Edward E. Rosborough, ’25
J. Frank Rose, ’71
William H. Ross, ’43
William W. Roush, ’56
James W. Rowe, Jr., 11
Galen B. Royer, ’40
Ronald D. Rubin, ’60
Albert J. Rudes, ’32
Leonard L. Rupert, ’30
Robert P. Rushmore, 48
David D. Russell, ’44
Francis D. Russell, ’22
Thomas J. Russell, ’27
Edmund A. Samara, *42
Robert T. Sams, ’14
Edwardo A. Santaella, ’50
Eugenio M. Santaella, ’47
Harry M. Satterfield, ’13
Robert G. Saxon, Jr., ’32
William B. Sayers, ’30
Edward R. Scales, ’34
Herbert E. Scherer, ’38
Albert E. Schlesinger, ’59
Leslie S. Schobe, Jr., ’70
Ernst Schuegraf, ’69
Martin B. Schultz, ’46
Leslie K. Schwartz, ’24
Joe J. Sconce, ’51
Clarence C. Scott, ’31
Robert L. Scott, ’65
John H. Scudder, ’40
James H. Seabrook, Jr., ’57
Charles D. Searson, ’27
Jack B. Shaffer, ’28
Alfred L. Shapleigh, III, ’66
Joseph Sharove, ’31
Howard M. Shaw, ’34
Craton S. Sheffield, ’57
George T. Sheftall, 54
Joseph C. Shepard, ’42
Gene K. Shepherd, 53
Rodney B. Shields, ’63
Townsend C. Shields, ’56
Richard A. Shimko, 44
Gerald B. Shively

John A. Shoemaker, ’33
Raymond C. Shook, Jr., ’38
Rush D. Shuman, ’49
Cleon M. Shutt, ’27
Walter W. Sikes, ’30
Frank B. Simmons, ’36

Joseph T. Small, Jr., ’69
Philip L. Small, Jr., ’43
Brooks F. Smith, ’29
Clyde Smith, ’14

George H. Smith, Jr., ’23
Henry F. Smith, ’56
Luther B. Smith, ’49
Philip J. Smith, ’35
Robert E. Smith, III, 53
Roderick G. Smith, ’54
Samuel W. Smith, ’25
Thomas C. Smith, ’33
William Y. Smith, ’47
Byron L. Snipes, ’26
James A. Snyder, ’51
Kenton M. Snyder, ’99

_ Theodore R. Snyder, ’41

Harry S. Spiers, ’27

James W. Spiers, ’25

Morry W. Spitz, Jr., ’41

Carleton W. Sprague, ’37

Robert J. Stack, ’68

Jesse T. Stallings, ’26

Edward W. Stapleton, ’32 |
Clarence B. Starr, ’67
Frederick M. Staunton, Jr., ’54 |
Ford Stephens, °50

J. Paul Stephens, ’26

John R. C. Stephens, Jr., ’59
Leroy J. Stephens, ’44

Guy M. Sterling, Jr., ’67
Sydney R. Stevens, ’33
Michael C. Stevens, ’69
Edward L. Stewart, ’39
Robert B. Stickel, ’53
Julius L. Stille, Jr., ’38
Charles W. Stilwell, ’31
Irwin W. Stolz, ’24

James R. Stone, Jr., 58
Kenneth M. Stone, ’32
Frank N. Stradling, ’36
Anthony J. Strauss, ’37
John D. Streetman, ’63, ’66
Harold E. Sturgill, ’55
John R. Sturm, ’23
Joseph S. Sullivan, ’49
Maurice F. Sullivan, ’02
Roger W. Sutherland, ’31
George H. Sutherlin, ’61
Kaye B. Swan, ’38

Oliver G. Swan, Jr., ’57
David P. Swank, ’16

Robert E. Sweeney, ’67

WeL

 

COMMENCEMENT

WEDNESDAY, MAY 29

1974 Schedule of Events

9:30 p.m. Reception and dance.
In Letitia Pate Evans Hall.

11:00 a.m. Baccalaureate service.
In Letitia Pate Evans Hall.

12:30 p.m. Annual luncheon for graduates,
their families and guests, faculty,
and alumni, sponsored by the
Washington and Lee University
Alumni Association.

On the Front Lawn.

9:00 p.m. PRESIDENT and Mrs. HUNTLEy’s
reception for graduates and their

families.

In the President’s Home.

THURSDAY, MAY 30

9:00 a.m. Reserve Officers’ Training Corps
commissioning ceremony.
Speaker: Gen. ARCH A. SPROUL
III, 37.
In Lee Chapel.

11:00 a.m. Graduation ceremonies.
Speaker: PRESIDENT ROBERT

EDWARD ROYALL HUNTLEY.

On the Front Lawn.

 

 

Chapter Correspondents

Appalachian—Jimmy D. Bowie, '56, 714 Arl-
ington Avenue, Bristol, Va. 24201
Arkansas—James A. Moses, Jr., ’71, 504 East
9th Street, Little Rock, Ark.
Atlanta—J. D. Humphries, III, ’66, 1045 Hurt
Building, Atlanta, Ga. 30303
Augusta-Rockingham—William B. Gunn, ’42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801
Baltimore—Carroll S. Klingelhofer, III, ’65,
102 West Pennsylvania Avenue, Towson,
Md. 21204
Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr., °63, 15
orman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213
Charleston—Louie A, Paterno, Jr., ’65, 1401
Somerlayton Road, Charleston, W. Va. 25314
Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, '52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, N.C. 28207
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ’51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, '38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, II]. 60187
Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer ’63, 10813 Music
Street, Newbury, Ohio 44065
Cumberland Valley—Albert A. Radcliffe, ’37,
145 Fairview Ave., Frederick, Md. 21701
Danville—Judge F. Nelson Light, ’52, Route
No. 2, Box 49-A, Chatham, Va. 24531
Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
63, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601
Gulf Stream—A. J. Barranco, ’64, Suite 1004
Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,
Fla. 33130
Houston—William B. Ogilvie, Jr., °64, 7519
Del Monte, Houston, Texas 77042
Jacksonville—E, Ellis Zahra, Jr., '68, 1405
Jean Court, Jacksonville, Fla. 32207

Kansas City—William N. Leedy, ‘49, 814
Westover Road, Kansas City Mo. 64113

Louisville—Henry H. Knight, II, ’68, Johns-
ton, Brown, Burnett and Knight, Inc., 425
South 5th Street, Louisville, Ky. 40202

Lynchburg—Robert C. Wood III, '62, 4720
aan Road, Lynchburg, Virginia

Mid-South—Jerome Turner, ’64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis Tenn. 38117

Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr., ’64, 204 Walsh-
wood, Mobile, Ala. 36604

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, ’33, 2134 Rose-
mont Drive, Montgomery, Ala. 36111

New England—Horace Gooch, Jr., ’31,
Massachusetts Ave., Worcester, Mass. 01609

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., ’50, P.O.
Box 729, Slidell, La. 70258

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, ’16,
Drawer 60, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York—James O. Mathews, ’70, 1st Nat’l
ak Bk., 399 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
100.

Norfolk—Peter A. Agelasto, III, ’62, 1300
United Va. Bk. Bldg., Norfolk, Va. 23510
North Texas—David Carothers, ’61, 5532 Park
Lane, Dallas, Texas 75220

Northern California—Paul R., Speckman, Jr.,
"57, Lilac Lane, Mountain View, Cali-
fornia 94040

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., ’63,
P. O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102 f

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-
stein. ’'53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Holly-
wood, Fla. 33020

Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling,
Dowling, Sanders and Dukes, Box 1027,
Beaufort, S.C. 29902

Peninsula—Dr. B. Voss Neal, ’51, 321 Main
Street, Newport News, Va. 23601

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., ’63, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Theodore G. Rich, Jr., °58, 226
W. Rittenhouse Square No. 2810, Philadel-
phia, Pa. 19103

Piedmont—Fred L, Heina, 201 Wachovia
Bldg., Winston-Salem, N. C. 27101

Richmond—Samuel C. Dudley, ’58, 100 Charn-
wood Road, Richmond, Va. 23229

Roanoke—William S. Hubard, ’50, Shenan-
doah Life Ins. Co., Roanoke, Va. 24010

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree, III, ’59, P.O.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24450

San Antonio—Allan G, Paterson, ’64,
Ridgemont, San Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Andrew W. Baur, ’'67, 20 Foxboro,
St. Louis, Mo. 63124

South Carolina Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, °’41, P.O. Drawer 4106, Station B,
Anderson, S.C. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
"53, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Dr. James W. Priest, ’43, 605
Oakland Ave., Dayton, Ohio 45419

Tulsa—Neal McNeill, ’50, 3724 South Florence,
Tulsa, Okla. 74105

Wane Potomac—Albert D. Darby, °43, 507
umberland Street, Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—Robert J. Frost, Jr., °68, 8402
Hartford Ave., Silver Springs, Md. 20910

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, °’62, 3010
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Greenville, Wilmington, Delaware 19807

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
Ww & L UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON VA

24450

 

 

  

\

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings.
All profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ‘14.

Price: $60.00 f.0.b.
Lexington, Virginia

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

The normal shipping interval is 12 to 16 weeks after the re-
ceipt of the order.

 

 

