the alumni magazine of washington and lee university SEPTEMBER 1974

ARCH. |
378.755) rary oF y

io Nie
\ J ] j “Mlilpogt,
VSN 7alu . Bton 9
. A ) j sh ao f a] J
>&U Fy ‘7 ; “i { fd f fy
} fi i Py,
A —_ ~ (ij i/f 7 { j
"? j ‘f f/f ‘aS

A CONVERSATION WITH THE LIBRARIAN

 
    

ane ns ie

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ARCHI\
‘al *
LIBRARY
OF
Washington and Lee University
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
be. x

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ol

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 49, Number 6, September 1974

William C. Washburn, °40...0000....000.0.0ccocococccccccceeeeee. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert §: Reet, GB icc Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Garter... oc. Editorial Assistant

Robert Lockhart, ’72
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73
Sally Maga. ciate innate peed Photographers

TABLE OF CONTENTS

An Interview with Librarian Leach .................... ]
Of W&L and Bushy Tails 000000000000 8
Spring Term in England, 1973 2000000000. 9
Five EC Presidents: A Conversation .................... 12
Alumni Fund Sets Records .........0000000000ccccccccceeeeeeee 16
Ross Malone: Rector and Friend. ........................ 18
Bicentennial Programs Advance .................00.00.0. 20
Wel, News Briefs .00.000..0 0G al aR 23
Distinguished Alumnus Awards ............0..00.00. 27
Chapter “News ) ....0..5.55... Manuka ae 28
Alumni Distribution in U.S. 2. oe 30
Class Notes 00.000... escccccsseseecesessssteseecesgnanens 31
In Memoriam ...0.0.0............ccceeecceecceeceeeeeeeeeeseeseseeeees 39

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.
President

RICHARD D. HAyngs, ’58, Dallas, Texas
Vice President

C. Royce HouGu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

‘THOMAS B. BRANCH, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, Jr., 43, Cumberland, Md.
MARIon G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
SAMUEL B. HO .tis, 51, Memphis, Tenn.
THEODORE M. Kerr, 57, Midland, Texas
CourTNEY R. MAuzy, Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
CHARLES C. StierFrF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ToucutTon, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

iio
——-

ON THE COVER: Nestled in a mezzotint of a few
of the hundreds of thousands of books, periodicals,
and documents in McCormick Library, Head Li-
brarian Maurice D. Leach, Jr., sits in his office,
talking about the needs of the University’s library
system and his assessment of what a new library
building will mean to ihe Washington and Lee
community. Excerpts from that two-hour conver-
sation begin on the opposite page. Photographs by
Robert Lockhart, ’72.

 

 

 

 

What Kind of Library?

 

More than a collection of books...
a happy place to learn (and relax)

This is the third in a series of articles on the University’s
library system and its needs.

Maurice D. Leach, Jr., became head librarian with
the rank of professor at Washington and Lee in July,
1968. At the time of his appointment, he was a Program
Adviser to the Ford Foundation at the American Uni-
versity in Beirut, helping to upgrade, develop and build
libraries for colleges, universities, and governments in
the Middle East. At that time, he was on leave of absence
from his post as professor and chairman of the Depart-
ment of Library Science at the University of Kentucky,
a position he had held since 1959. Before that he had
spent much time in the Middle East as an assistant
attaché with the U. S. Foreign Service and the U. S.
Information Agency. He holds a B.A. in history from the
University of Kentucky and a B.L.S. from the Univer-
sity of Chicago. He and his wife, Virginia, have a
daughter, Sarah, who is a freshman this year at Bryn
Mawr College.

In this interview with the editors of WeL, Leach
discusses recent developments in McCormick Library,
his concept of what a good college library should
be, and how a new library would benefit Washington
and Lee’s educational program.

W&L: What was your assessment of McCormick Library
when you came here six years ago?

LEACH: With particular reference to books, allowing
for past selectivity or the limitations of past budget
procedures—the lack of money—it was a good collection
of books. But it was lacking in periodicals. And it was
lacking in anything in the way of non-book materials
such as microfiche, tapes, and the like, although there
was a limited collection of microfilm. And in terms of
staff, it was appalling. I think there were only two or
three full-time employees. All the others were part-time
people, working no more than nine to 10 months. There
was no way the organization could carry on beyond a
holding operation. ‘There just wasn’t any way we could
operate efficiently or effectively.

W&L: Yet the main collection was strong?
LEACH: Yes, there are certain resources on this campus
that are outstanding. I don’t think it was due necessarily

September 1974

 

to the fact that they were budgeted. I think it was due
to the energy and imagination of certain departments.
‘These resources reflect the drive of either the librarian
or of the faculty members who are interested in collect-
ing in a given area. Those that seem to me to be especi-
ally notable are chemistry, certainly Civil War history,
the romance languages, European history, particularly
the Middle East, Austria, and Russia, and the Germanic
and Slavic languages. These strengths are clearly evi-
dent, but similar collections apply to all departments
depending upon individual involvement. There is also
a strong collection in the classics and the humanities,
reflecting a combination of gifts from those who leave
or give collections to their alma mater and the usual
acquisitions by purchase over the years.

‘Our mission is to support the learning
process and the personal development
of the individual by providing

the informative and the cultural.”

W&L: Have most of the deficiencies you found when
you arrived been corrected?

LEACH: I am not willing to say that they are, but
hopefully they are. Let’s put it this way: the University
has come through with good financial support according
to its ability to provide funds. A graphic statistic is the
book budget from 1948 to 1973. In 1948, we spent
$11,000 for books and periodicals. In 1973, we spent
$93,000. At the end of this fiscal year 1974 the figure is
near $128,000. So financially in terms of what the Uni-
versity is able to provide we have obviously increased
tremendously.

WL: What about inflation? Has that hurt?

LEACH: You have to reckon with the tremendous
impact that inflation is having on us. In 1948, we sub-
scribed to 350 journals. At the end of fiscal 1973, we
received 973. But since 1973, one journal alone—
Chemical Abstracts that is vital to the chemistry de-
partment—has gone up from $1,500 to $3,000. Its index
for which we paid $2,400 three years ago has now gone
up to $5,000. The average cost of a book has gone up.
In 1968, it was $9.00. Last year, it was about $13.25.
So inflation is taking its toll even though the library
budget has gone up, you might say, drastically.

W&L: Has the staff been upgraded?

LEACH: The library faculty has increased from four
professional librarians to six. The supporting staff is
now 10. The faculty is diversified in their educational
backgrounds: two Southerners, one from west of the
Mississippi, two from the Midwest, and one from the
East. Two members have lived and worked abroad. ‘The
supporting staff includes two members with graduate
degrees and extensive working or study experience
abroad.

W&L: What other steps are being taken to improve
services?

LEACH: We are expanding the microfilm collection as
we add to the periodical holdings which we need. We
turn to film to save space and frequently it is the only
way periodicals are available in practical form. We have
not gotten into microfiche yet. With the gift of a cassette
player from Richard Gooch, Class of 1930, we have just

9

om

begun to acquire cassettes which are a relatively new
format in library collections.

W&L: You feel then that the University is doing every-
thing within its ability to maintain the strength of
McCormick as a sound library?

LEACH: Yes, according to its capacity to budget. I
will never say that we couldn’t always use more. But I
have found the administration of the University more
than enthusiastic in supporting the development of the
library—to meet the needs of the faculty and the stu-
dents—and it has gone one step further in giving con-
sideration to the needs of the Lexington community
as a whole in the use of its resources, which is rather
unique today and certainly a positive contribution to
society. A rule of thumb of accrediting agencies is
that a college or university should spend a minimum of
5 per cent of its educational services budget on the
library program. Our average is about 5.3 per cent. It
is true that many colleges with which we compare our-
selves are putting in 7 to 10 per cent. But I think as we
evaluate what is happening here that we have to look
at the total picture, and I certainly have no uneasy
feelings about the amount of money that the Uni-
versity is putting into the budget.

WkL: Don’t the statistics show that our library makes
its services available to students and to others more
hours a week than almost any other?

LEACH: Compared to the number of staff we have
including the number of student assistants we use, I
am sure that is correct. We are open about 117 hours
a week during the fall and winter terms. Prior to and
during examinations, we are open 138 hours a week.
However, during the last couple of years it is noticeable
that libraries at other schools are beginning to use the
same time span we are using—about 104 to 110 hours
a week.

W&L: How do we compare in terms of the sophistica-
tion of services provided? For instance, you say we sub-
scribe to roughly 1,000 periodicals. Is that good or bad?
LEACH: That involves a question of quantity and
quality. The qualitative issue is the heart of your ques-
tion. This summer, for instance, we are doing a full

WeL

 

inventory of periodical holdings, right to the latest
issue on the shelf. We are discovering that we have on
our shelves peripheral journals, and we are discarding
them. Now when we discard these marginal journals the
Statistics go down quantitatively. But qualitatively, in
terms of the academic objectives of the University—the
courses that are taught—we are going up. We can easily
accumulate all kinds of things, put them on the shelf,
and run up the statistics. ‘Theoretically, someday some-
one will come along and find a need for anything pub-
lished, but in the long run we realize that peripheral
resources are seldom valid to the University’s goals. So
when we compare ourselves statistically we may find
others with 1,500 titles, but what we don’t know is
what percentage of them might be in what we consider
the peripheral category. There is a trickier area in
which we have been highly selective. There are propa-
ganda publications that come in, some of which contain
very interesting information, but we seldom keep them.
We do make them available for a limited period of
time on shelves in a reading room.

W&L: What do you mean by propaganda?

LEACH: It’s a publication expressing a particular point
of view such as publications from the ministries of
information of foreign governments or those which
express particular political or economic points of view,
and the like. We may not keep it. The reason at this
point has to do with University academic objectives,

September 1974

with space, with demand, and with the lack of access
to them through indexing. A university like Johns
Hopkins, which has a totally different objective, would
likely keep such material without question.

WkL: These decisions then are largely logistical?
LEACH: Well, they are logistical, but we must be
careful that they are also based upon the academic
objectives of the University. Our mission is to support
the learning process, that is the courses being taught,
and also to support the personal development of the
individual by providing both the informative and the
cultural.

W&L: Is this library doing that?

LEACH: Yes, without a doubt. I can see it from the
way people use it and from the feedback that we re-
ceive. Probably one of the greatest things we have going
at W&L today—and I would like to emphasize the point—
is that everybody has easy access to whatever we have.
Secondly, there is the effectiveness of the Honor Sys-
tem. We have valuable books on open shelves that have
remained there because of that principle, that in other
situations may well have been lifted and denied to
others. ‘That is what justifies our purchasing, if I may
be flippant for a moment, something like Playboy as
opposed to some other periodical. My point is that
Playboy does have an aspect of literature that is valid
in a college library, but it also has a reason for being
there purely in the interest of recreation. That is also
valid. The educational process is concerned -with the
whole man, and the whole man is a combination of vari-
ed interests. When we subscribe to Playboy we may cut
out some other journal. Knowingly or unknowingly—I
don’t think we would do it knowingly—we might do it
in a way that some individual might question. We do
have a limit on what we can purchase, and we do some-
times have to make a decision that is not always favor-
able to all individuals, but the intent is to be in the
best interest of the total academic community.

W&L: Did it become apparent to you at the outset that
Washington and Lee needed a new library building?

LEACH: Yes. Before I came, the University had called
in an architect, Mr. J. Russell Bailey of Orange, Va.

3

He apparently went through the building in some detail
and didn’t waste any time in saying it was not worth
remodeling. Partly for structural reasons, partly be-
cause of location, and so forth, it would be better to
build a new structure. And right after I came here, Mr.
Bailey came back and we went over the building in
detail. It was at that point that he gave the University
an estimate that it would cost around $750,000 simply
to rewire and replumb the building—things of that
kind—and still not increase the space. I mean space to
meet the needs for reader stations, books, and micro-
film readers, for example.

WkL: Just how critical are the space needs in Mc-
Cormick?

LEACH: There are really three approaches to that:
One is the often stated cliché about the explosion of
knowledge. ‘That involves the growing number of books
and journals being published. A healthy large library’s
average growth is roughly 5 per cent a year. With gifts,
we generally reach around 10 per cent. The amount of
shelving space that we have at present in McCormick,
not allowing for a dead storage attic approach and not
allowing for taking over the space that we have loaned
out as a Classroom, may last three more years without
resorting to drastic measures such as, say, installing
shelving in the halls and turning to the use of dead
storage in the attic, which I am really trying to avoid.

W&L: And the second approach?

LEACH: That is more serious at the moment than the
storage of books. This is the attrition on user space.
Within six years we have lost some four to five dozen
seats or more. These losses were caused by the installation
of shelving and filing cabinets, the addition of a cassette
room, the conversion of space for four additional faculty
offices, and several other rearrangements that made for
more efficient operations. There is less and less space
to study each year in McCormick. In the bibliography
room, for instance, we have had to remove a study table
to put up shelving to house bibliographic tools there
that are coming in at a rapid rate. Another example is
the loss of private study space on the ground floor. We
have lost four small rooms to offices. It is harder and
harder for a student or faculty member who wants

4

 

privacy to find a nook to be by himself. What will ulti-
mately happen, unless the new building progresses
rapidly, is that the hallways and other areas will become
stack areas.

W&L: And the third?

LEACH: From the standpoint of layout and efficiency,
we are rapidly reaching the point where we will have
to provide a map for our users to use the building
satisfactorily. Also we require additional staff because
of the layout of the facilities.

WL: As things stand now, what kind of picture do
you draw of the week of exams?

LEACH: We are particularly crowded during the fall
and winter terms. The last winter term is what I re-
member most vividly. There are approximately 400 seats
in this building, and there was no such thing as a
vacant seat during March. They were occupied from the
time the building opened until it closed. Now that may
have something to do with the way students study,
which I don’t want to comment on, but the place was
literally overwhelmed in those two terms during the
month preceding examinations.

W&L: What about the spring term?

LEACH: The number of students using the library is
not as great, but they use the library more readily in
doing independent research to which the curriculum is

WeL

 

 

  

  

 

   

  

    

 

LEACH:

: ms

tronic. The

 

 

in any way as a_

intent is to provide, for

 

 

 

 

 

 

Parsons

This is a story about mak-
ing a bureaucrat happy by
beating him at his own game.
All it takes is a wonderful
way with words and good
humor in the grip of bureau-
cratic fog.

Not long ago, Frank A.
Parsons, ’54, assistant to
President Huntley, was fill-
ing out an application for
assistance under the Higher
Education Act for Washing-
ton and Lee’s new library.
He was dealing with the sec-
tion on what impact the new
building could have on the
environment. After  grap-
pling with questions on sub-
surface drainage, airspace in-
trusion, noxious emissions,
and interruption of services
to the aged and _ infirmed,
he came to a section on
“Animal Populations” and
this question:

“To what extent will your
proposal create or precipitate
an identifiable long-term
change in the _ diversity
of species within the
animal population of your
proposed environment, and
increase or decrease’ the
population density of an in-
dividual species of animals
within his natural habitat?”

Frank’s answer:

“There are some 10 to 20
squirrels living, or appearing
to live, in the site proposed
for the new library. Some
trees that now provide eith-
er homes or exercise areas for
the squirrels will be removed,
but there appears to be am-
ple other trees to serve eith-
er or both of these purposes.
No major food source for the

 

OF WEL,
red tape,
and bushy tails

squirrels will be affected. It
is likely that the squirrels will
find no difficulty in adjust-
ing to this intrusion into
space heretofore their do-
main. They have no appar-
ent difficulty in adjusting to
relocations brought on by
non-federally supported pro-
jects. The squirrels are the
most visible inhabitants of
the site. There are occasional
sightings of rabbits, skunks,
and snakes. No effort has
been made to date to deter-
mine whether these are resi-
dents or transients. Some
birds nest in trees that will
be removed, but as noted
earlier, there is no scarcity
of other equally suitable trees
that will remain. Insect
population is normal for the
site.”

The next question was:

“To what extent will your
proposal create or precipitate
an identification change in
the behavior patterns of an
animal population?”

Frank’s answer:

“As noted above, the
squirrels will have to make
some adjustments. They are
generally friendly now, rang-
ing somewhere between the
approachability of your gen-
eral ‘Capitol Square’ type of
squirrel entirely dependent
on human _ handouts = and
those skittish ones complete-
ly wild. They appear to ac-

cept students and _ others
about, but none has ever
been seen accepting food

from a human’s hand. It will
be difficult to tell if they’re
unhappy about having to
find new trees to live in and

 

sport about. Otherwise, no
change in their behavior pat-
terns is anticipated.”

Then the questionnaire
asked:

“To what exent will your
proposal bring about an iden-
tifiable genetic change within
an animal population or po-
tential capacity to create a
genetic change in animal
populations?”

And Frank replied:

“The library would appear
to have no capacity for af-
fecting the squirrels’ or other
animals’ genes.”

The application was duly
filed and ultimately reached
the Division of ‘Training and
Facilities, Bureau of Post-
secondary Education, Office
of Education, Department of
Health, Education, and Wel-
fare, Washington, D. C.

A few days later, President
Huntley received a_ letter
from Richard R. Holden, di-
rector of the division. He
wrote:

“Bureaucracy, red tape, and
applications forms all seem to
share common characteristics
of being approbrious, but
necessary. Occasionally, bu-
reaucrats like myself feel we
have minimized red tape and
simplified application forms
to the nth degree. However,
even that delusive feeling is
not a happy one as we know
there are requirements that
must be improved and ques-
tions that must be asked that
always are not germane to
all applicants.

‘Fortunately, we meet our
match from time to time and
to our joy these stalwart per-

 

Did he says, “Nuts”?

 

sons with

usually
great wit and charm. Perhaps
bureaucracy will tremble, but
I salute Washington and Lee
University and the applica-

riposte

tion preparer anonymous
who completed the attached
part of the environmental
Statement for assistance un-
der Title VII A of the High-
er Education Act.

“The mountain of paper-
work which confronts me
daily somehow seemed much
smaller the day I read about
the squirrels in Lexington,
Virginia. May they and your
great University co-exist in
harmony for many, many
years.”

President Huntley replied
identifying Frank as the pre-
parer of the application and
adding, “As his answer
brightened your day, your
letter brightened ours.”

Parsons, who looks on his
job of filling out federal ap-
plications as penance for past
and future sins, couldn’t re-
sist a further comment on the
squirrels and federal bureau-
cracy.

“Nuts!”

 

WeL

 

-

Pb
> - ae

-

-

gts -
Bee aa
eae 8

a
ar

 

 

=
“

-

a
- wet

 

 

 

Seminar in England, ’73

7
i}

aS

OS i aN

nar sessions, held in the lounge of our hotel, we gained
insights into the acting and directing styles of the major
Shakespearean companies, actors, actor-managers, and
directors from Richard Burbage, the premier tragedian
in Shakespeare’s repertory company, through ‘Thomas
Betterton, Colley Cibber, and David Garrick during
the Restoration and eighteenth centry, John Philip
Kemble, Sarah Sidons, Edmund Kean, and Charles
Macready in the Romantic era, Samuel Phelps, Charles
Kean, Ellen Terry, and Henry Irving in Victorian times,
to Herbert Beerbohm-Tree, William Poel, Harley Gran-
ville-Barker, John Gielgud, Laurence Olivier, Michael
Redgrave, Tyrone Guthrie, and Peter Brook in the
twentieth century.

At this point, lest I give the erroneous impression
that the students were assiduously toiling scholars for
the entire six weeks, I must briefly catalogue some of
our extra-academic activities in and around London. We
learned first hand the truth of Dr. Johnson’s adage,
“When a man is tired of London, he is tired of life.”
At first we made obligatory visits to the standard tourist
sites—the Tower, St. Paul’s Cathedral and Wren’s City
Churches, Westminster Abbey, the Changing of the
Guard at St. James’s and Buckingham Palaces, the
King’s Road “scene,” the parks—but before long we be-
came more adventuresome and explored some less fa-
miliar, but equally charming parts of London’s infinitely
various nature.

We, of course, went regularly to the theatre and
concert hall, the most memorable concert being the
Good Friday performance of Bach’s St. Matthew Pas-
sion at the Royal Festival Hall where we had a serendi-
pitous encounter with W&L sociology Prof. Emory
Kimbrough, who was on a research tour of England’s
“New Towns.” We saw at least a dozen plays, including
ones by Moliere, Shaw, Chekhov, Ibsen, and, not sur-
prisingly, five of Shakespeare’s. Robert Kidd, a director
at the Royal Court Theatre who had directed Macbeth
at Washington and Lee two years ago, was kind enough
to get us tickets for Christopher Hampton’s new play,
Savages, starring Paul Scofield. Moreover, Robert
Goodell, past professor of German at Washington and

10

 

 

= hee , & ae " # .
id os ;
: Aa ii id Pit ‘
4 a ‘ , ory or i
eee 4 ‘ ‘
“ae ' io “
ih | ‘hie
; ot

Left: Seminar participants at Kings College, Cambridge. Center:
At Magdalen College, Oxford, with Swede Henberg (in sweater ).
Above: At Wordsworth’s grave, Grasmere in the Lake District.

Lee and recently retired Cultural Affairs Officer at the
American Embassy, arranged a most stimulating discus-
sion with George Murcell at St. George’s Elizabethan
Theatre in Islington. Murcell, an accomplished Shake-
spearean actor with years of experience in both the
Royal Shakespeare and National Theatre companies,
plans to stage Elizabethan dramas in a_ playhouse
modelled on the original Globe Theatre.

We toured most of the major cultural repositories:
the British Museum, the Victoria and Albert Museum,
the National Gallery, the Tate Gallery, the National
Portrait Gallery,.the London Museum in Kensington
Palace, the British Theatre Museum, the Courtauld
Institute, and the Wallace Collection.

We also took excursions to Greenwich, Hampton
Court, Windsor Castle, Knole Park, and to Rochester—
and thereby hangs a tale. Another friend of Washing-
ton and Lee, David Cleggett, a scholar of Virginia his-
tory in his leisure hours, provided us with one of our
most vivid memories. After giving us a tour of Rochest-
er’s antiquities and Dickensian buildings, Cleggett
invited us to dinner at his home in Maidstone, Kent
to meet a number of “sixth form” students as well as
the Mayor and Mayoress of Maidstone. It was strange
enough to walk into an English home, decorated with
pictures of Richmond and our campus, and be served
sherry on cocktail napkins embossed with the Wash-
ington and Lee crest. It was passing strange, however,
to witness Cleggett, a Tory banker, addressing the Com-
munist mayor, resplendent in his official regalia, as
“Your Worship” all evening! Though I suggested that
such a title might be a fitting way for my students to
show proper respect for their professors, somehow it
never caught on.

In retrospect, probably the highlight of the program
was our 800 mile, week-long trip through the English
countryside to the Lake District and back to London.
Each night we stayed at ‘bed and breakfast establish-
ments much like our “tourist homes” in the States. Such

WeL

 

a journey replicated the underlying cyclical pattern of
many of Shakespeare’s plays—temporary withdrawal
from the City to the “green world” of the Country
followed by return to civilization, the participants in
this archetypal journey being renewed in ineffable fash-
ion by the dream-like experience. In short, what began
for us as recreation became re-creation.

After I finally discovered reverse in our rented mini-
van, we drove without further incident to Oxford, seat
of England’s oldest university. (University College,
founded in 1249, is five hundred humbling years older
than the tiny academy to which Washington and Lee
traces its origin.) There we were met by Marvin “Swede”
Henberg ’70, a Rhodes Scholar at Magdalen College,
who gave us an insider’s tour of the principal Oxford
Colleges, the haunts of such worthies as Dr. Johnson,
Sidney, Locke, Peel, Raleigh, Arnold, Ruskin, More,
Gibbon, Bentham, Wren, Shelley, Toynbee, the Wesleys,
Adam Smith, Thomas Browne, and T. E. Lawrence.
(This year Ralph Smith ’73, a Rhodes Scholar at Corpus
Christi, provided a similar service for Prof. Edwin
Craun’s group.)

En route to Stratford-upon-Avon the next day we
stopped at Blenheim Palace, the modest home of the
Marlboroughs and the birth-place of Winston Churchill.
During our two days in picturesque Stratford we visited
the Shakespeare birthplace properties, watched the color-
ful Morris dancers perform in the street, punted on
the Avon, and attended the Royal Shakespeare perform-
ances of Richard II and Romeo and Juliet at the Shake-
speare Memorial ‘Theatre.

From Stratford we travelled to the medieval city of
Chester by way of Warwick Castle and Kenilworth, the
magnificent ruins of the castle where Queen Elizabeth
was entertained by her favorite courtier, the Earl of
Leicester. The next two days, spent largely in the Lake
District so justly celebrated by the Romantic Poets, in-
cluded visits to Castlerigg Stone Circle, a spectacularly
situated “henge” monument, and to various sites of
literary significance. Perhaps our hours spent climbing
among the craggy hills of Borrowdale Valley overlook-
ing Derwentwater remain the most memorable of all.

September 1974

Left: In front of the Bodleian Library, Oxford. Center: At
Castlerigg Stone Circle in the Lake District. Above: Group
of seminar students at Kenilworth Castle.

Having barely resisted the impulse to remain in the
vernal wood, we reluctantly left the Lake District,
crossed the North Riding, and motored down the Al to
Lincoln, dominated by its magnificent cathedral. From
there we drove to Cambridge where we were met by
Michel Marcoux ’66, a graduate student in international
law at Queens’ College, who guided us through the
splendid King’s College Chapel, the Wren Library,
Pepys’ Library, and the venerable colleges which educat-
ed such luminaries as ‘Thomas Gray, Robert Greene,
Spenser, Harvey, Marlowe, Fletcher, the Walpoles,
Keynes, Erasmus, John Fisher, Sterne, Coleridge, Mal-
thus, Milton, Darwin, Wordsworth, Samuel Butler,
Pepys, Newton, Macauley, Tennyson, Byron, Dryden,
Fitzgerald, Marvell, and Oliver Cromwell. Next day,
after visiting Audley End, the Jacobean home of the
Cornwallises, we re-entered London not altogether ready
to return to the rigors of research.

The rhetoric of roll-calls, of course, can only sug-
gest the incredible broadening of our physical and intel-
lectual horizons which took place during our six short
weeks in England. What should be clear, however, is
that much of our new knowledge can be directly attri-
buted to the enabling powers of those people who con-
tinue to regard Washington and Lee with special affec-
tion. I suspect many of my colleagues could also tell how
their new curricula have been similarly enriched by the
expertise and generosity of people like Robert Kidd,
Robert Goodell, David Cleggett, Swede Henberg, and
Michel Marcoux.

The experience, then, served to reaffirm my convic-
tion that the abiding strength of Washington and Lee
resides in its human _ resources—its students, faculty,
alumni, and friends—and their collaborative potential.
In recent years we have been sensitized to the Univer-
sity’s acute financial needs, but we must not overlook
the equally important need for the mutual commitment
of our other “talents” to Washington and Lee if we are
to approximate its humanistic ideals.

11

= ae -
ee

Bae x Z
Es : a
Ve ‘Bera * Pos a

 

Five Student Body presidents gathered in the Student Executive Committee room for interview: Bob Brennan, Doug Schwartz,
Ben Bailey, Fran Lawrence, and Steve Robinson.

Five Student Body presidents

discuss life at W&L today

During the 1973-74 academic year,
three immediate past presidents of
the Student Body along with the cur-
rent president and the president-elect
were all in school. They were:

Fran Lawrence of Lexington, a
second-year law student, 1970-71
president.

Steve Robinson of Alexandria,
Va., a second-year law student, 1971-
72 president.

Bob Brennan of Williston, N.Y.,
a 1973 graduate doing fifth-year work
in premedicine, 1972-73 president.

Doug Schwartz of Great Neck,
N. Y., a senior law student, 1973-74
president.

Ben Bailey of Parkersburg, W.Va.,
a rising senior, who will be president
for 1974-75.

Late last spring, the editors of
WeL sat down with all five and talk-
ed about student life at Washington
and Lee. Here are excerpts from that
conversation:

Q: Is the quality of student life at
W&L today what it should be?

BRENNAN: I'm not sure that social
life is where it should be, but it has
improved in the five years that I
have been here. The opening of the

12

new Student Center in my freshman
year and things like allowing fresh-
men to have cars have given students
more liberty. ‘This has resulted in a
break away from the fraternities,
which I think is good in that people
now join fraternities because they
want to and not just because that is
the only alternative to a social life.
And I think the Student Activities
Board, which the present Student
Executive Committee started this
year, has done a good job in provid-
ing entertainment during the week.

ROBINSON: I think there is more
of a University community now than
there was three or four years ago.
There has been a move back to cam-
pus. There is much more to do on
campus. There are a lot of people
around on weekends. And I think
they are trying perhaps to get a little
bit more out of school instead of de-
voting themselves to the countryside
and things like that.

LAWRENCE: I am really excited
about there being so many different
kinds of activities today. There are
all kinds of movies on campus now
and there was the Shakespeare com-
pany that was brought to campus this
year. There is an Outing Club, and

people are interested in a lot of out-
door activities.

Q: What is the Student Activities
Board and its benefits?

SCHWARTZ: The board serves as
a focus for community life. Its objec-
tive is to create a W&L community
by providing various activities for
various kinds of students, ranging
from dances and concerts to lectures,
clubs and committees. The basic goal
is to take the student out of the coun-
try and from the fraternities into the
school so that they can all enjoy cer-
tain aspects of the W&L community
together. All credit belongs to the
Student Activities Board for reviving
Fancy Dress this year. I know some
students did not enjoy it and would
not go to Fancy Dress, but a vast
number of students did go. Many
thought it was one of the best activi-
ties that they had enjoyed in their
W&L career.

BAILEY: We just finished appoint-
ing the people who are going to run
the Student Activities Board this
year, and they are planning an even
bigger and better Fancy Dress. Those
being interviewed made a comment
that I think is most interesting and

WeL

that is that the faculty and the ad-
ministration enjoyed Fancy Dress
every bit as much as the students did.
This goes a long way, I think, toward
vitalizing the University community.

Q: What were the toughest problems
you encountered as president?

ROBINSON: I think apathy was my
biggest complaint. It seemed to me
that the Student Executive Commit-
tee and its subcommittees kept trying
to do a lot of things, and there was
no student interest at all. I don’t
think apathy is as big a problem at
all now. Maybe it is because things
have been brought back to campus,
and people are much more involved.
But when I was president I found a
general indifference to just about any-
thing, particularly the Honor System,
to be particularly frustrating. If the
Honor System is going to work, the
students are going to have to enforce
it and not the 12 people who sit in
here [EC room]. This year, I think, is
the first year in a long time that a
significant number of violations were
reported by students. My year as
president, I think, we had about one
out of 10 reported by students. The
rest came from faculty or staff mem-
bers. I think the fact that more stu-
dents are reporting violations is a
plus for the Honor System. It is for
the students, and the students should
run it. The faculty should become
involved only when there is written
work or something like that.

Q: Do any of you doubt the Honor
System will survive as a way of life
at W&L?

SCHWARTZ: I think the concept of
honor at W&L is something ingrain-
ed in this University, and it is some-
thing, hopefully, that will remain in-
grained. I think it is necessary
as long as there is a University. I
think it is one of the fundamental
parts of a liberal education.

LAWRENCE: I am at the point now
where I am not exactly sure what

September 1974

Fran Lawrence

 

. . . hope that economics
never force us to get
considerably larger ...

 

changes I would advocate in the sys-
tem. But I think we probably argue
far too much about that kind of
thing. I don’t think it is terribly im-
portant to the Honor System or the
concept of honor here whether the
system is radically changed or chang-
ed only a little bit as long as there
is an effort on the part of those who
are here to impart to people who are
coming in a sense that the Honor
System is important to them and the
people who are coming in pick it up,
which I think they will do. But I
don’t know that the long debates we
have had over whether there should
be an absolute penalty or whether
there should be a one year’s suspen-
sion is so very important—only in the
sense that it may have to change
some, but if it has to, it will.

SCHWARTZ: I disagree with you on
one point in that I think discussions
of the procedures of the Honor Sys-
tem—the thought about the Honor
System—is extremely important to
reinforce belief in the Honor System.
I think a thorough discussion of the
way the Honor System works and
why it exists is exactly what keeps the
Honor System viable and always will
keep it viable.

BAILEY: I don’t have the experi-
ence with the Honor System in terms
of time that the others do, but even

 

Steve Robinson.

 

... more of a university
community here now...a
move back to campus...

 

in my limited experience with it, I
have always had this sense of im-
minent disaster—that the Honor Sys-
tem is on the verge of collapse. I have
now decided that is an illusion—a
healthy illusion. I came to that con-
clusion after talking recently to some
alumni who served on Executive
Committees in ’64, °54, and °44. I
found that although we like to think
that our problems are unique—and
the forms our problems take often
are—but the substance of them in the
matter of the Honor System is noth-
ing new. I think it is good that we are
questioning it. I think that the dis-
cussion that Doug in particular arous-
ed on the Honor System this year is
very healthy. I think we should never
lose our fears, but I don’t think we
should start bailing out either.

BRENNAN: I think Fran pretty well
summed up the way I feel about it.
When I think of the Honor System,
I think about concept, and I think
that concept will mold the structure
itself. If you start getting hung up
on the procedures themselves and try
to use those procedures to reach the
end of honor, then I don’t think that
is the right way to approach it.

[Editor’s Note: There ensued a long
and involved discussion about what
specific changes, if any, should be
made in the Honor System—whether

13

the absolute penalty of expulsion
from W&L for an honor violation
should be replaced by graduated
penalties and whether there should
be refinements in the procedures for
public honor trials which are on the
increase. Opinions ranged from advo-
cacy of graduated penalties involving
perhaps suspension of one year for
offenses considered minor to the ar-
gument that graduated penalties
smell of legalism and discipline and
not honor. There was also a feeling
expressed that the EC tends to be
stricter in the application of penalties
for honor violations than students as
a whole because the EC is often iso-
lated from student opinion—hence
the tendency of student juries to ac-
quit in public honor trials. ‘There was
also opinion that perhaps graduated
penalties are already built into the
system since student jurors, even in a
public trial, will convict those who
they feel acted with malicious intent
while exonerating those whom they
judge guilty of a technical offense, the
penalty in these latter cases being a
reprimand growing out of the fact
of the trial itself and a loss of status.
But there was no firm consensus on
what changes should be made in pen-
alties or trial procedures. |

Q: Is enough being done in the first
instance to convince W&L students
to live the concept of the Honor
System?

BAILEY: My class and this year’s
undergraduate senior class didn’t
have a very intensive Honor System
orientation when they arrived on
campus. The practice of orientating
freshmen at Natural Bridge was re-
instated last year, and it will be con-
tinued. I think this year’s freshman
and sophomore classes are a lot better
equipped to work with the Honor
System than my class is. Orientation
as far as I am concerned is really the
key to having a strong Honor Sys-
tem. I don’t see how you can have it
if you didn’t have orientation, and
you still may not have it even if you
do. But orientation is the best chance

14

 

Bob Brennan

 

... good Student Body
here and it’s to them
that we have to look...

 

the Honor System has. I think it has
been good.

Q: But are students less committed
to the Honor System now?e

LAWRENCE: If students are too
apathetic to get 12 people to serve
on a jury, then I think we are really
in trouble. But as long as everybody

goes down there [to the trial] and has °

a commitment to at least carry
through the trial, that says something
that we take for granted.

ROBINSON: I don’t think people
fear the Honor System the way they
used to. There is not the stigma at-
tached to someone who is acquitted
after an Executive Committee hear-

ing.

SCHWARTZ: Steve didn’t make a
judgment on the fear of his day as
opposed to now, but I think it is a
great advantage now that people
don’t fear the Honor System. I tried
to stress that in my orientation speech,
that you shouldn’t fear the Honor
System; you should believe in it. If
you have to fear honor, it’s not worth
much.

Q: Do you feel that the building of
the Woods Creek Apartments to pro-
vide University housing for upper-
classmen is a good trend?

Doug Schwartz

 

... concept of honor
is fundamental to a
liberal education ...

 

ROBINSON: I think it is good be-
cause it will bring people to the cam-

pus.

LAWRENCE: Perhaps more on-cam-
pus housing should be provided for
those who want it, and in the past
maybe we haven’t provided enough.
Maybe with Woods Creek we will
have it. But I really have two feel-
ings about on-campus housing. One is
that I think it is important to have
a center of activities here on the cam-
pus. On the other hand, I think it is
important to have, in some sense of
the word, a non-resident university.
I hope the day never comes when 80
percent, say, of the students live on
campus. The University is basically
in the business of educating people,
and its emphasis should be first on
the quality of faculty, second on the
quality of the necessary educational
facilities, and then it should take as
little responsibility elsewhere as pos-
sible.

SCHWARTZ: I think Fran’s point is
really interesting. I feel that Woods
Creek is good because it will offer
students who want it another way of
living. But I know in my own life
one of the greatest aspects of my edu-
cation has been living in the county
and getting to know the local resi-
dents af Rockbridge County. It is a
totally different life style and put me

WeL

 

 

 

Alumni Fund sets record highs;
Class of ‘64 wins two trophies

Led by Chairman Calvert Thomas ’38A, the 1973-74
Alumni Fund set new records for dollars and contribu-
tors. The total of $422,765 made 1973-74 the third con-
secutive year in which the Alumni Fund has established
a record for the amount given.

Although the Fund fell short of the $435,000 goal
the fact that it increased by $11,691 over the previous
year was a significant achievement in a year of national
economic uncertainty.

The total of 4,548 contributors was also an all-time
high, exceeding by 17 contributors the record set last
year. Because of a larger alumni base, however, per-
centage of participation dropped to 35.11% from last
year’s record-setting 36.5%.

The competition for the Washington, Richmond,
and Bierer ‘Trophies was not decided until the final day.
The Washington Trophy, awarded to the Academic
Class graduated within the last 50 years that contributes
the largest amount, was won by the Class of 1938A,
Jack Neill, Class Agent, with contributions totaling
$13,607. The Class of 1964A, Buck Ogilvie, Class Agent,
won both the Richmond and the Bierer Trophies for
percentage of participation with 49.8% participation.
The Richmond Trophy is awarded to the Academic

 

16

Class graduated within the last 50 years; the Bierer
Trophy to the Academic Class graduated within the
last 10 years. The Class of 1964A has won the Bierer
‘Trophy in each of the two years since it was established
but will no longer be eligible because it is now more
than 10 years since their graduation.

 

REPORT OF ALUMNI FUND

1973-74 1972-73
GOAL $435,000 $400,000
June 30th =June 30th
Total Received $422,764.98 $411,074.39
Percentage of Goal 97.19% 102.77%
Number of Contributors 4,548 4,531
Percentage of Participation 35.11% 36.49%
Numbered of Increased Gifts 1,058 1,032
Number of Decreased Gifts 528 503
Number Giving Same as
Year Before 1,818 1,692
Number of Returnees 688 920
Number of New Gifts 456 384
Number of Gifts of $100 or More 1,438 1,417
Average Gift as of June 30th $92.96 $90.72

 

Trustee Sydney Lewis, chairman of the
Current Support Committee of the
Achievement Council; Calvert Thomas,
chairman of the Alumni Fund; and
President Huntley discuss the progress of
the Alumni Fund during a July meeting of
the Achievement Council in Lexington.

WeL

 

 

 

   
  
    
  
  
  
     
     
  
  
  
 
 
    
  
  
 
   
  
  
     

   

Ross L. Malone, 63, Rector of the American Bar Association Medal,
- Board of Trustees since May and a_ the ABA’s highest honor (and one
- Board member since 1967, died Aug. given only rarely) at its annual meet-
13 at his meme in we, N. Mex. ing in Honolulu. The ABA awarded

the Medal to him posthumously.
Malone received both his under-
graduate and his law education at
Washington and Lee,
LL.B. degree in 1932. He nels honor-
ary) doctorates from seven colleges ;
1eS, including | Washington

 

   

    

: premely devoted ¢ to “Washington and
Lee” by Dr. John Newton Thomas,
whom Malone suc ceeded as Univer-

- pee coun-

   

  
 
 
 

 

 
    
  

yea $ later, by his 1
fellow W&L
Pc well, sree also a Trustee of wodine
= and ssl Malone had been pe

. ney General of the Unit-
age and was active
| ™ meer — cs

_— Court Justice Lewis F.

   
    

 

a more than 40° Shae ‘said: “His

of the chief executive s temporary ins
capacity. a |

His death | al 1e nee four days bi be.
fore he was” to * ve received the |

  
  

poly
leader, 1S

 

 

 

great wisdom, and perhaps most _

—worked closely with Malone ever
taking the
formally until May). After Malone
death, Huntley said: “His enorm
did not stem from the power of p
acter. His integrity was, ‘comple

personal, moral and intellectual.

others. So one could always be si
that his judgment was straight

‘ous conviction, was backed by a

“That this rare man felt a bounc

- Powell, Jr., a close friend of Malone’s devotion to Washington and Lee 1

eloquent accolades: in her long /

iulness—Malone intended to d :

ington and Lee as
made that decision, according to

his deep conviction of the signifi

heart for Washington and Lee.”

   
 
 
    
 
    
 
 
   

‘it
i

 

all for his spirit of tolerance an
generosity toward all of mankind.”

Washington and Lee Preside
Robert E. R. Huntley—also a. lawye

before Malone’s election as” Rect
last October (he did not take of
influence over those. who knew A
tion, but from the force of his

had no capacity for deceiving hi
self, and thus no need to dec

untarnished. SS
“This character, sicmaming :
haps from his quiet but deep re

ly disciplined mind,” ‘Huntley

 

 

 
 
  
 
 
   
  

always be counted as one of the m

99 :

    
 
 

tory.

It was no secret that in his :
retirement from General Moto
which he had planned even before

 
 

 
 
    
 
 
    

  

the major part of his time to
Board Rector |

    
 

Thomas, who knew him well, ‘ ‘ou

 
 
   
  

 
 

and the worth of

 

    
 

“He was a man of amazing

  

   

integrity,” Dr. Thomas said, “i “in

 

 

 

 

ed by a strong Christian faith. His
death is a major tragedy for the Uni-
versity.”

He was held in equally high es-
teem in his profession. In awarding
its Medal posthumously, ABA Presi-
dent Chesterfield Smith said Malone
was “described by all who knew him
as a remarkably warm, generous and
gentle person” who made valuable
contributions to everything with
which he became associated.

‘The president-elect of the New
Mexico Bar Association, George Har-
ris of Albuquerque, said Malone was
“one of the greatest lawyers the state
has ever produced.”

His friend and colleague in New
Mexico, U.S. Sen. Pete Domenici,
said Malone had one of the best legal
minds he had ever encountered.
“The legal profession has lost one of
its true shining lights,” Domenici
said.

In addition to his ABA presi-
dency, Malone’s professional activity
included terms as president of the
American Bar Foundation, director
of the American Judicature Society,
director of the American College of
Trial Lawyers, and fellow of the
American Bar Institute. He was a
member of the ABA’s House of Dele-
gates for more than 20 years.

He was also a member of the
Presidential Commission on Law En-
forcement during the Johnson Ad-
ministration and of the American
Revolution Bicentennial Commis-
sion.

When Malone joined General
Motors in 1967 as general counsel
and vice president, he became the
first former ABA president to accept
a position in private industry. His
friends “back home” commented that
he would head a legal team that was
larger than the five largest firms in
New Mexico.

After his election as Rector of
Washington and Lee last year, he
remarked in a conversation that he

a
a TD

found special satisfaction in that title,
as against the title “chairman,” which
is more customary in American edu-
cation, because of its unique histori-
cal significance. ‘The term “Rector”
traces back to William Graham and
Liberty Hall Academy in 1776.

But as with the Rectorship, titles
were more than symbolic to Malone.
When he was offered the number-two
post in the Justice Department in
1952, he wrote: “I accepted the ap-
pointment only when I became con-
vinced that there was a real service
to be performed in trying to ‘get the
Department of Justice back on the
track’ and that I might be able to
make a contribution to that end.”
Later he termed his tenure as Deputy
Attorney General as “interesting and
strenuous’; the wire services reported
that he brought a “new look” to the
Justice Department.

From its inception, Malone was
chairman of the Law Committee of
Washington and Lee’s Achievement
Council, and at the time of his death
his group had raised more than $11.7
million toward the 1976 law school
goal of $14.5 million in the Univer-

 

 

 

 

Malone on his last visit to the
campus in July presided at a joint meeting
of the Trustees and the Achievement
Council.

Ross L.

aes
re

sity’s comprehensive
program.

His last visit to the University
campus came in July, less than four
weeks before his death, when he pre-
sided at the special joint meeting of
the Board and the Achievement
Council. His devotion to Washington
and Lee was wholly evident then,
even in nuts-and-bolts sessions con-
cerned with long-range planning and
finance.

“I could make a speech for about
an hour on the spirit of W&L—but
that is not my function today,” he
told the ‘Trustees and Council mem-
bers. But even so, he could not help
but mention a few of what he saw as
the University’s distinctive character-
istics: “the background of the school;
the Honor System of the school; the
calibre of students we accept at the
school. . [ve chuckled so many
times,” he said in an aside, ‘“‘about the
wives of Washington and Lee gradu-
ates who have not had an occasion
to be on the campus _ previously.
[When they visit at last] they become
completely indoctrinated with the
W&L spirit.” (Malone also liked
to quote his own wife’s observation:
‘There is no fraternity quite as close
as Washington and Lee.’’)

Some years ago, in a letter to Dr.
Fred C. Cole, then President of the
University, Malone summed up his
devotion to Washington and Lee per-
fectly. “I think that it is a privilege
to contribute to the support of an
institution of the quality of Washing-
ton and Lee,” he wrote. “Certainly
in my own situation I feel a personal
debt of gratitude which can never be
adequately repaid.”’

Malone is survived by his wife,
Elizabeth Louisa Amis Malone of
Roswell, whom he married Oct. 10,
1934; by a sister, Mrs. Edna Malone
Schwarz of Ruidoso, N. Mex., and
by three brothers, Baynard W. Ma-
lone, Earl L. Malone and Charles F.
Malone, all of Roswell.

development

 

 

 

TE LT EI

September 1974

eT
19

 

 

University s
Bicentennial
programs

are off

to a Star
spangled
beginning

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The University’s public participation
in the American Revolution Bicentennial
observance began in earnest this summer,
with openings of exhibitions in Norfolk
and Washington, D. C., centering around
some of its best-known art treasures.

The Reeves Collection

The famed Reeves Collection of Chin-
ese Export Porcelain began its two-year
American Bicentennial tour—arranged
by the Smithsonian Institution’s travel-
ing exhibits service—with a premiere at
Norfolk’s Chrysler Museum attended by
the Ambassador from China and other
dignitaries representing Washington and
Lee, state and local governments, and the
art world.

More than 200 pieces from the Reeves
Collection are included in the exhibit,
which will visit 10 other museums in
eight states, each for about two months,
between now and 1976. Many of the
pieces in the American Bicentennial
show reflect the development of pa-
triotic sentiment in the Colonies and,
later, in the new nation.

Particular favorites of merchants en-

20

 

&

tS

Ke

:

es

eee re ¥

  

ft e .
tle Me
“ge

&

es
* ous

iy,

 

    
     

Top: Selections from Reeves Collection on exhibit in the Chrysler Museum. Above: At
preview dinner in Museum galleries are, from left, President Huntley; Peter Agelasto,
president of the Tidewater Alumni Chapter; Mrs. James C. H. Shen, Walter P. Chrysler,
Jr., founder of the Museum; Mrs. Andrew P. Miller, and Ambassador Shen.

gaged in trade with China at the time
were decorations of eagles and flags, and
a number of Reeves Collection pieces in
the exhibit combine those American sym-
bols with traditional Chinese decorations
in unusual ways.

Other rare 18th- and early-19th-cen-
tury pieces in the Bicentennial show per-
tain to the University’s own early his-
tory; Mr. and Mrs. Euchlin D. Reeves,
who left their entire 2,000-piece collec-
tion to the University in 1967, were par-
ticularly influenced by men who were im-
portant in the early history of Washing-
ton and Lee, where Reeves earned his
law degree. Still other pieces trace the
‘“‘westernization” of China, principally
by missionaries, and the development of
commerce between the Orient and the
New World.

A number of special friends of the
University were hosts at an authentic
Chinese dinner on July 10 prior to the
preview and reception held for Tide-
water area alumni and members of the

 

Chrysler Museum. Among those attend-
ing were Nationalist Chinese Ambassa-
dor and Mrs. James C. H. Shen; Mr. and
Mrs. Walter P. Chrysler, Jr., founders
and patrons of the Museum which bears
their name; Virginia Attorney General
and Mrs. Andrew P. Miller; the execu-
tive director of Virginia’s Bicentennial
Commission, Parke S. Rouse ’37, and
Mrs. Rouse; President and Mrs. Robert
E. R. Huntley; Alumni Secretary and
Mrs. Willam C. Washburn, and Uni-
versity Treasurer and Mrs. James W.
Whitehead.

The Reeves Collection American Bi-
centennial exhibit will be in Little Rock
through Nov. 3; from there it will travel
to Nashville, where it will be on display
from Nov. 23 through Dec. 29.

The Washington-Custis-Lee Portraits
The priceless portrait of George
Washington in the uniform of a colonel
in the Virginia militia, owned by Wash-
ington and Lee since it was bequeathed
to the University in 1913 by President
G. W. Custis Lee, was a central feature

WeL

 

Top left: Peale portrait of Washington in the National Portrait Gallery. Top center: Portrait was a key symbol for the Gallery’s first
Bicentennial show. Top right: Mount Vernon where Peale portrait and other paintings owned by the University will go on display. Above
left: Drawing room in Mount Vernon where the Peale Portrait will return. Above right: The prime movers behind the reprinting of
Lexington in Old Virginia, from left, Mrs. Betty Munger, who saw the project through to completion; Dr. James G. Leyburn, who
wrote the new introduction; Mrs. Sally Mann, who reproduced many of the book’s Miley photographs, and Edward F. Backus, who di-
rected its production in the W&L print shop.

in the National Portrait Gallery’s first
American Bicentennial show, “In the
Minds and Hearts of the People,” which
opened in June.

The portrait, painted by Charles
Willson Peale in 1772 and believed to be
the first of Washington made from life,
is one of 65 loaned to the Portrait Gal-
lery, a division of the Smithsonian In-
stitution, from prominent collections
throughout the United States and Eng-
land. The show takes its title from a
statement made in 1818 by John Adams:
“The Revolution was in the minds and
hearts of the people: a change in their
religious sentiments, of their duties and
obligations. . . . This radical change in
the principles, opinions, sentiments and
affections of the people was the real
American Revoltuion.”’

The Peale portrait was hung in a
room of its own (there were 15 rooms in
the show in all), illustrating ‘““The Spark
That Fired.”

The Portrait Gallery chose it as the
“symbol” of its first American Bicenten-

September 1974

 

nial exhibition, using a large reproduc-
tion of the portrait on posters for the
show.

In October, the Peale portrait joins
several others from the University’s im-
portant Washington-Custis-Lee Collection
of 18th- and 19th-century portraits for a
special show at Mount Vernon—where
they originally hung.

Mount Vernon describes the show
there, which runs from Oct. 4 through
Dec. 15, as a “Bicentennial Homecom-
ing.” Each portrait will be displayed in
precisely the room and position it ori-
ginally occupied when Washington lived
at Mount Vernon.

The Mount Vernon Association has
invited Washington and Lee’s Board of
Trustees and members of the Lee As-
sociates to a special reception Oct. 11 in
Mount Vernon itself in honor of the
“homecoming.” The reception in Wash-
ington’s home will be followed at the
Mount Vernon Inn by the annual black-

 

tie dinner of the Associates, held by tra-
dition at the time of the autumn Board
meeting, which will take place that week-
end in Alexandria.

Like the Reeves Collection, the Wash-
ington-Custis-Lee portrait collection will
be on a national tour through mid-1976.
The portrait shows are sponsored by the
International Exhibitions Foundation of
Washington, D.C.; after leaving Mount
Vernon they will go next to the Chrysler
Museum in Norfolk. The portraits will
be on view in museums in seven states
before the tour concludes.

While it is on tour, the Peale por-
trait of Washington is replaced in Lee
Chapel by a full-size, faithfully detailed
replica, made by Thomas C. Bradshaw,
II, a Lexington photographer (whose
credits include the cover of Antiques
magazine last October showing the Col-
onnade on the occasion of its becoming
a National Historic Landmark).

Lexington in Old Virginia

As another American Bicentennial
project, the University has reprinted

21

 

LEXINGTON
in Old Virginia

HENRY BOLEY

 

 

 

Above: Reprints of Lexington in Old Virginia are
now available from the W&L Bookstore. Top right:
Students conducting an archeological “dig” at the
ruins of Liberty Hall worked with meticulous care
throughout spring and summer. Below right: At their
special joint meeting in July, Trustees and Achieve-
ment Council members visited the “dig” for a first-

hand inspection,

Henry Boley’s warm hymn to Lexington
and Rockbridge County, Lexington in
Old Virginia, first published in 1936,
but long out of print (second-hand copies
have commanded prices up to $40 in
recent months). The book—a delightful
collection of local history and legend,
Boley’s own reminiscences, and anec-
dotes and gossip swapped in his book-
store—contains an introduction written
especially for the reprint by Dr. James
Graham Leyburn, professor of sociology
emeritus and dean emeritus of the Uni-
versity; the book also includes 48 photo-
graphs by Michael Miley, ‘““General Lee’s
photographer” (many of which are from
a large collection of Miley plates which
were discovered only after Boley’s death
and therefore never published before).

The book was printed by W&L’s Jour-
nalism Laboratory Press under the im-
print Liberty Hall Press—taking the name
Lee’s predecessor
institution which adopted it in 1776, just
weeks before the signing of the Declara-
tion of Independence. Lexington In Old
Virginia is available at $5.95 postpaid
from the W&L Bookstore.

22

of Washington and

v

 

Archaeological Dig

W&L archaeology students are receiv-
ing valuable “hands on” experience and
are making an important contribution to
the University’s understanding of its own
history in a unique “dig” which began
last spring at the ruins of Liberty Hall
Academy.

The project, directed by Dr. John M.
McDaniel, assistant professor of sociology
and anthropology, has already begun to
pay off. The outlines of Liberty Hall’s
comparatively small campus have been
uncovered—even the buried remains of
one building which nobody had known
for sure existed. Utensils, fragments of
pottery, buttons and other such items,
each meticulously researched and typed,
are permitting Dr. McDaniel’s class to
begin developing a picture of how stu-
dents at the academy lived and worked.

This fall and winter, discoveries
made last spring and over the summer
are being researched and analyzed, and

st ee
: a

 

  

5
e bin 5

434
’ % .
’ * re
~ 2s ees

Masses ee
a = oP DNS

-

oy

the “dig” itself will be resumed next
spring.

There are not many—if any—18th-cen-
tury college sites in America that have
been as perfectly preserved as Liberty
Hall; the University believes this com-
bination of historical and archaeological
research is unprecedented.

Liberty Hall was built in 1794, prin-
cipally of stone, but with a wooden roof.
Early in 1803 the building was gutted
by fire, and rather than rebuild, trustees
moved the school a mile to the east (to
the existing campus site). The ruins re-
mained abandoned for 170 years—provid-
ing, as it turned out, an ideal resource
for student archaeologists.

The University expects that the re-
sults of the “dig,” combined with other
historical research being conducted in
connection with the American Bicen-
tennial, will contribute significantly not
only to the education of the student par-
ticipants, but to an advanced understand-
ing of college life itself nearly two cen-
turies ago.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

i misplaced it it. This summer © his. widow ion

 

as well as men, checked it Pack in

SPEAKE, RS AND PERFORMERS ON. cAMPus, srs 4

 
   

ment at the University of Cah “The En Obligatio
oO Samuel J. Adams, Jr., 59, now a member of the piano

_ faculty of the New. England Conservatory, in a Lee Chapel

 

_ concert of the music of Beethoven, Brahams and Debussy.

a 1 As ae ihe It, Brsented by the National Shak
“sored by. the Student Activities. Boa | .

O Norman F. Cantor, professor and history d department chair-
man at the State University of New York ‘(Binghamton):
“The Medieval Liberation Movement.” —

| o Roberts ee Pesca biologi ris
Health, Edi 1

  
  

 

   
  
    

sinnings.” 7 ;
r of inne at Dalh¢ ousie

 
  

 

and, proving that the Honor System applies ¢ to 1 \ L wi es

“From Conception to

    

 

 

- and Stars: An Exercise in Qualitative Physics” |
O Carter L. Burgess, | chairman of the board of American
_ Airlines’ subsidiary Flagshi) |

a week under the Woodrow Wilson Foundation Senior -

_ Fellow program to deliver a public talk, “The Multina-
tional Corporation,” and to address students in clas and
_ meet informally with them. | | | |
O Allen Ginsberg, the anti-establishment “flower
poet: a reading from his own works. | -
O Ishmael Reed, black novelist, editor, 1 reviewer, “poet and
| ‘teacher: a reading from his own works. |
O Terry Sanford, president of Duke University and former
governor of North Carolina: a preview of 1976 Presidential
politics, sponsored by the Mock Democratic qonvention |
steering committee. | -
O Samuel Terrien, professor of Hebrew and cognate » langu:
ages at Union Theological Ser inary (New York): a lec- -
_ ture on the Biblical ery of creation,
1 h, professor of moral theology at the Duke
7 University pee S hool: a lecture on medical ethics

 

 

o

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

   

Oct. | 12-Hampden sydney . Away 7

16-NCAA A Division II
_ Championships:

— 2-Virginia —
an _4—Lynchburg
HOME } Dec. 16—Framingham St.
| Dec. 17—Mass, Maritime
Away | Jan. 34—W&L Invitational ©
a T (Haverford, ‘Williams,

   

 

 

a edailet Stadium)

  

 
   

(Parents Weekend)
. Nov. ; 16—Washington U UL

 

Oct. 19-V.P.I.

  

‘Sept. 21—Lynchbong Road

"Roanoke Nevo |
Old Dominion.

 

 

HOME | Nov.

 

Virginia Wesleyan | Nov.

_Away fo 1974 SOC CER a | Jan. | .
17—University of Mexico HOME | Jan. 11—Baltimore U.
20—West Va. Wesleyan
28—Eastern Mennonite _ _ Away > Jan. _18-Hamp
4—Randolph-Macon _ Away | | |

_ 13—Madison |
16—Washington

fan pen Sydney

 

8_Navy .

HOME | Jan. 14—Emory & Henry ©
len-Sydney |

HOME Jan. 25—Roanoke.
HOME | Jan. 31—York
‘way | Feb. 1—Bowie State
‘Feb. _4—Lynchburg |
Away | _ 6—Old Dominion 3
HOME | Feb.  8—Eastern Mennonite
_ Away | Feb. 12—Emory & Henry
_ Away | Feb. oan

   

 

  

 

oe Christopher Newport / Away
Oct. | es -

 

  

 

 

q 74-75 BASKETBALL | | Feb. —

Feb.

 

HOME | Feb. 2 95-VCAA. Tournament oe
HOME | Feb. 27—Athletes in Action

 

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

of the Distinguished Alumnus Award —
ty —_—_ certificate that went to Sen. William E. Brock, II.

"President — ED Rk Huntley and ‘Alumni .
Board President Everett Tucker, Jr will Pp
ae 1975 awards - at the annu neeting

ORM ON Sead INSIDE BACK
COVER, OF THIS MAG!

 

 

Chapter
News

ATLANTA. attending _ the
North-South All-Star Lacrosse Game on
Saturday, June 8, were entertained at
a Bloody Mary party at the home of
Charlie and Mary Ellen Jones the morn-
ing of the game. Special guests were W&L
Coaches Jack Emmer and Bill McHenry
and their wives. Also attending from the
University were Coach Chuck O’Con-
nell and Bill and Libby Washburn. The
formal gardens of the Jones’s home were
a beautiful setting for the occasion. The

Alumni

large group, in high spirits, then pro-
ceeded to the game where they were
joined by other alumni who saw the
South win a 13-10 victory. ‘Three W&L
lacrosse players—Ted Bauer, Skip Licht-
fuss, Skeet Chadwick—contributed
significantly to the South’s win.

and

RICHMOND. The chapter officers
along with several alumni and current
WkL students entertained incoming
freshmen from the Richmond area
on June 12 at the home of Sam C. Dud-
ley, chapter president. There are 12 in-
coming freshmen from the Richmond
and many of them along with
their fathers attended the informal gath-

area,
ering.

HOUSTON. On Aug. 3 an enthusiastic
group of alumni gathered at the home of
Bucky and Susie Cunningham, ‘’69, for
a pleasant social occasion. W&L’s Direc-
tor of Development Farris Hotchkiss rep-
resented the University. ‘The group en-
joyed a repast of beer and barbecue, and
the Cunninghams received expressions
of appreciation for their
Plans were announced for more such

hospitality.
occasions in the future.

WASHINGTON, D. C. A luncheon
on Aug. 21 was held at the Army-Navy
Downtown Club in honor of the 32 in-
coming freshmen from the D. C. area.
The freshmen and their fathers were in-
troduced by the chapter president, Ro-

28

  
  

rd

Seated at the head table at the Army-Navy Downiown Club in Washington, D. C. at

a >

fre \ : Re

    

a
<r™,

meeting for incoming freshmen from the area are, left to right, John Zamoiski, ’74;
Athletic Director Bill McHenry, ’54; Robert Frost, Jr., °68, chapter president;
Lacrosse Coach Jack Emmer, and Arthur Smith, Jr., 41.

bert J. Frost, ’68, who presided. W&L
Coaches Bill McHenry and Jack Emmer
then reported on W&L’s athletic pro-
spects for the coming year. John Zamoi-
ski, a 1974 graduate, welcomed the fresh-
men on behalf of current students and
told them what they might expect during
the first two weeks on campus. ‘The
luncheon was attended by one of the lar-
gest groups of alumni ever to assemble
in the Washington area.

FLORIDA WEST COAST. A meeting
honoring President and Mrs. Huntley
was held June 13 at the renowned Air-
port Host Hotel at ‘TYampa’s Internation-
al Airport. A reception preceded the din-
ner at which President Huntley spoke
briefly on the state of the University.
Other guests from the University includ-
ed Katie Huntley, daughter of the Presi-
dent, and Alumni Secretary and Mrs.
Bill Washburn. Chapter president George
W. Harvey, Jr., 63, presided and intro-
duced the other officers: Bruce Robinson,
63, vice president; Clark M. Lea, ’59,

 

President Huntley addresses the Tampa
meeting. At head table with him,

from left, are David Kerr, ’51, Mrs.

Kerr, Mrs. Bill Washburn, George Harvey,
‘63, and Mrs. Huntley.

vice president; and Ausley Watson, Jr.,
‘67, secretary-treasurer. Harvey recogniz-
ed several incoming freshmen and their
parents from the Florida West Coast
area.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. A reception
and dinner for five incoming freshmen
and their parents from the Cumber-
land Valley area was held Aug. 21 at the
V.F.W. Country Club in Frederick, Md.
A large group of alumni and their wives
attended from Hagerstown and Frede-
rick, Md., and Martinsburg, W. Va. They
extended a warm welcome to Coaches
Bill McHenry and Jack Emmer and
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn. The
coaches discussed the University’s athle-
tic prospects, and Washburn made a brief
report on the University. President and
Mrs. Huntley were scheduled to attend

WeL

 

'- pee op Beas
eee

\.

 

 

 

a ee? =
Ses Potiepae Pe
*» 72 sa? 7 =>

=

/

Cumberland Valley officers, first row from left, are M. Kenneth Long, ’69, vice president;
J. Oakley Seibert, ’71, president; and George I. Smith, ’56, treasurer. Directors,

standing from left, are A. A. Radcliffe, ’37; John M. McCardell, ’37; Clovis Snyder,

‘91; Charles R. Beall, ’56; Robert Clapp, ’30, and Sam Strite, ’29.

 

the meeting, but had to cancel their
visit because of the unexpected death of
Ross L. Malone, rector of the Board of
Trustees. Among the distinguished alum-
ni and guests were Judge Edward S.
Delaplaine, 13, and Dr. James G. Ley-
burn, dean emeritus of the University.
Outgoing chapter president, Albert A.
Radcliffe, °37, presided, and during a
business meeting the following new of-
ficers were named: J. Oakley Seibert, ’71,
president; M. Kenneth Long, Jr., ’69,
vice president; and George I. Smith, ’56,
secretary-treasurer. Directors — elected
were: Judge Robert Clapp, Jr., ’30; Sam-
uel C. Strite, ’29; John M. McCardell,
'°37; Dr. Clovis Snyder, ’51; A. A. Rad-
cliffe, ’°37; and Charles R. Beall, ’56.

PITTSBURGH. Incoming freshmen
from the Pittsburgh area were honored
at a luncheon on Aug. 22 at the Carlton
Hotel. Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn
represented the University at the stag
occasion and added his welcoming to the
freshmen. J. Scott Apter, ’70, made the

September 1974

,

Enjoying themselves at the Cumberland
Valley meeting in Hagerstown are, left
to right, Judge Edward S. Delaplaine, ’13;
an unidentified guest; John M. McCardell,
‘37, and Manuel M. Weinberg, ’31L.

arrangements and told the large group
present that the chapter is planning a
future more formal meeting of the en-
tire membership.

NEW ORLEANS. A stag reception was
held on Aug. 22 at the home of Mr. and
Mrs. Rick Christovich, ’68, in honor of
incoming freshmen from the New Or-
leans area. Several current students also
attended to help welcome the new men.
Barbecue, hamburgers, and beer made
a fine menu, and Rick’s wife, Sally, re-
ceived special words of appreciation for
doing all of the cooking and making
the other arrangements. Dudley Flanders,
‘96, reported for the nominating com-
mittee; the following officers were elect-
ed: Rick Christovich, ’68, president; John
R. Sarpy, '72, vice president, and Ken-
neth P. Carter, ’71, secretary-treasurer.

 
 
  

 

Appreciation was extended to Judge Gus
A. Fritchie, Jr., ’50, the retiring presi-
dent, for his service and leadership.

NEW YORK. The annual alumni pic-
nic at the Sunlit Farm of Emmett Poin-
dexter, ’20, in Putnam Valley was held
June 29. An enthusiastic group of alumni
and their wives participated. There were
plenty of liquid refreshments and ample
fried chicken. The activities included a
fun-and-games period and swimming, and
everyone agreed that it was a wonderful
afternoon of relaxation and fellowship.
Rounds of applause followed the sing-
ing of “The Swing.” Cheers of apprecia-
tion rang out for Poindexter, who has
made this event so memorable over the
years.

On Aug. 28, the New York chapter
entertained incoming freshmen and their
parents at a small reception at the Met-
ropolitan Club. Paul Perkins, ’74, spoke
briefly to the freshmen on what the first
two weeks are like on the W&L cam-
pus, placing emphasis on the Honor
System. Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn
presented color slides, and James Mat-
hews, ’70, chapter president, welcomed
the guests and expressed appreciation to
William Bender, ’51, who made the ar-
rangements.

PHILADELPHIA. Alumni gathered on
Aug. 29 in the lovely surroundings of the
Manor House in Alverthorpe Park for a
reception for new freshmen and _ their
parents. Attending the meeting and wel-
coming the new W&L men were Isadore
M. Scott, °37, a Trustee of the Univer-
sity, and Mrs. Scott; Charles C. Stieff, II,
45, a member of the Alumni Board of
Directors, and Alumni Secretary Bill
Washburn, who showed color slides of
the campus. A cocktail hour preceded
the buffet dinner. The arrangements
were made by Ted Rich, Jr., 58, chap-
ter president, Bob Hawkins, ’60, and
Wick Hollingshead, ’61.

ND
©

 

 

 

 

Poe

 

 

 

 

 

 

ple 'aNNE-SA1V1S a2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

1908 Chesapeake and Ohio Railroad, retired in
“Ropert s. ‘Keener has just publi shed his December, 1972, from the Chessie System.
book. A Political Testamen t, Guid eline to” “However, — he immediately signed a con-
National Greatness. The publisher i is Vantage eer with, Chessie to serve an additional”
Press. Keebler lives in eee Spring, Md | ae Washington, ‘bd. C, executive |

   

       
    

 

 

 

BS

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

—

———=-

   

 

     

-

ane
>

oa

7
ee

7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OO a

- oan 7 - - 7 -

- SS -

a :

7 : 7 - 7 - 7

. 7 OO a -

- - Ss 7 OO - ; -

- oe a - ot -

a we a = ; : : 7 :

a ; ~ ° ; a : OB : a : -
Be . a sees ee ee : _

a - - - - - a ;

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ners Nr rt tr res ses sens ne

 

 

 

 

~ -

ae
=

 

- 4
Oe

os

wets

has been serving as commanding officer of
the Headquarters Company of the Lynch-
burg National Guard unit.

LEONARD A. BLANCHARD is a Ph.D. candidate
in English at Emory University, expecting
his doctorate in August, 1975. This August
he joined the English Department at St.
Mark’s School of Texas in Dallas.

1970

MARRIED: Davip R. FRANKSTONE to Frances
Carrington Gravely of Rocky Mount, N. C.,
on May 25, 1974. Among the wedding party
were classmates: Mr. and Mrs. Norwood
Morrison, Stuart Fauber, David Bethea,
Thomas Pettyjohn, Kenneth George, David
Hull and Jay Dorman. Also present were
Carl Adams, III, ’74; Garland Tucker, III,
‘69; Charles Holbrook, Jr., ’°72; and Millard
Younts, ’72. Frankstone is in his third year
of law school at the University of North
Carolina.

MARRIED: Curr B. JAMIson to Elizabeth
Cleveland on March 30, 1974, in Cleveland,
Ohio. Among the wedding party were Fred
Black ‘69, Phil Jones ’70, John Muncks ’70,
Bob Woodward ’71, and Frank Brooks ’71.
Also attending the wedding were Langdon
Quin °70, Mickey Mixson ’70, Rick Antell
‘70, Scot McElroy, ’70, Lucius Clay, ’71, and
Wade Peery ’72.

CHARLES T. GARTEN, JR., graduated from the
University of Georgia in June, 1974, with a
Master of Science degree in zoology. He re-
ceived the 1974 American Society of Mamma-
logists Award for his research on the _ be-
havior-genetics of oldfield mice. He is now
technical coordinator of mineral cycling re-
search at the Savannah River Ecology Lab-
oratory at the A.E.C. Savannah River Plant
in South Carolina.

Dr. Scot A. BROWER has graduated from the
University of Cincinnati Medical College and
will begin a rotating internship at the Uni-
versity of Kentucky. He expects to do resi-
dency in ophthalmology at the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

RoBERT H. HERRING has graduated from the
University of South Carolina Law School.
While in school, he clerked for the Judiciary
Committee of the South Carolina House of
Representatives. Married in 1972 to Nancy
Allen, Herring is now with the U. S. Army
JAG Corps and assigned to appellate work
in the Military Court of Appeals in Wash-
ington, D. C.

September 1974

 

|

Four W&L alumni who are active in the Bicentennial celebration were on the pro-
gram at the opening of Virginia’s George Washington Bicentennial Center in July
at Alexandria. Left to right are Del. Lewis A. McMurran Jr., °36, of Newport News,
chairman of the Virginia Independence Bicentennial Commission; James T. Me-
Kinstry, ’48, of Wilmington, chairman of the Bicentennial Council of the 13 Original
States and a member of the Delaware Commission; John W. Warner, ’49, of Middle-
burg, Va., administrator of the American Revolution Bicentennial Commission; and
Parke S. Rouse Jr., ’37, of Williamsburg, director of the Virginia commission. The
Alexandria Center opened July 11 during a Festival of Freedom, celebrating the
200th anniversary of enactment of the Fairfax Resolves in July, 1774.

 

A W&L gang composed largely of West Virginia alumni have successfully re-
peated a raft trip down the New River. The 1974 version of the Wild Water Expedi-
tion Unlimited, again arranged by Dick Bradford, '67, took place on Saturday, June
22, and was preceded by a softball game and cookout at the Bradford home on the
Friday evening before. Those taking the exciting, hair-raising trip from Thurmond
to Fayette Station, W. Va., are shown in the picture (left to right): Allan Northcutt,
‘63, John Payne, 62, Roper Vaughn, ’67, Bill Rogers, ’70, Jim Price, ’67, Torrey Arm-
strong, ‘70, Wick Vellines, 68, Howard Capito, 68, Glen Moore, ’69, Jim Crothers,
66, Dick Bradford, ’67, Herb Smith, ’64, James Watts, ’36, Conway Shields, ’64;
(rear) Holmes Morrison, 63, Dave Gordon, ’69 (kneeling), Tommy Cox, ’67, Steve
Watts, 68, Tom Howard, ’68, Bob Van Renssalear, ’63, (facing to left), Tuck Morse,
‘67, Tim Chriss, ’72 (kneeling), Louie Paterno, ’65, Mike Riley, ’71, Gene Gillespie,
67, Bart Goodwin, ’69, Terry Cox, ’68, Don Sharpe, 69, Rob Cosel, ’67.

37

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

— ee
TS
Se

 

 

 

 

 

Bo Brookby, ’72

L. M. Tuskey,

Republic of Mali in West Africa. He is sta-
tioned in Koutiala in the southeastern region
near Upper Volta. He writes of the prob-
lems of the disastrous drought in that area
of Africa.

RoBert G. (BO) BRooxsy has been elected
banking officer of Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co. in Greensboro, N. C. Brookby joined
Wachovia in 1972 as a commercial bank
trainee in Winston-Salem. He moved to
Greensboro in June as loan administrative
assistant.

1973

MARRIED: WiLLtiIAM’ HERBERT MCcILHANY,
II, to Mary Lee Merrill on June 29, 1974,
in Greenwood, Va. MclIlhany is author of a
book, Klandestine, a story of an FBI infor-
mant and his exposure of the Ku Klux Klan,
to be published by Arlington House. After
moving to California, he will continue his
writing career in addition to his consultant
capacity for McIlhany Equipment Co. The
bride is a sister of Bill Merrill, 73.

MARRIED: RALPH HARRISON SMITH, II, to
Helen Elizabeth Oakley on July 13, 1974, in
Gainesville, Fla. Smith, Washington & Lee’s
1973 Rhodes Scholar is continuing his studies
at Oxford University. Among the groomsmen
were classmates: Hatton Smith, Paul Mc-
Clure, Thorton Hardie, III, Tom Van-
Amburgh, Nimrod Long, and Paul Weir.
Also attending the wedding were classmates:
Charles Perry, Robert Posey, Brandon Her-
bert, Tim Haley and Bill Nickel. The cou-
ple will live in Oxford, England.

MARRIED: Rosert W. SHERWOOD to Martha
Hildebrand of Salem, Va., on June 16, 1973.
Sherwood _ is currently an assistant cashier
with the Hunterdon County National Bank
in Flemington, N. J. He has also begun an
M.B.A. program at Rider College which he
attends at night.

DoucLas Burton is at the University of
Texas pursuing a master’s degree in jour-
nalism. He is also on the staff of the Daily
Texan.

MICHAEL C, SCHAEFFER attended the Univer-
sity of Maryland in the undergraduate physi-
cal education department. He expects to at-
tend Appalachian State University in Sep-
tember for a graduate degree in physical
education and will also be a teaching assis-
tant and assistant varsity soccer coach.

JoHN C. Moore (see 1966).
September 1974

 

74

Following a year of freelancing around Vir-
ginia, W. Patrick HINELY has joined the
W&L University photographic staff.

1974

RosBert N. BRAND is director of information
services for Roanoke College. He will also
serve as sports information director. Brand,
co-captain of W&L’s 1973 varsity football
team, majored in journalism.

LAWRENCE M. Tuskey has joined the law de-
partment of Columbia Gas Transmission
Corp. in Charleston, W.Va. Tuskey served
as a law clerk for the firm of Tydings and
Rosenberg in Baltimore during the summer
of 1973. He is married to the former Katha-
rine Hill of Richmond.

JOHN M. ZAmoiski has recently joined the
staff of Warren Adler, Ltd., as creative di-
rector. Warren Adler is a Washington-based
public relations and advertising firm. Zamoi-
ski has had rich experience in advertising,
having worked for Henry J. Kaufman & As-
sociates, Inc. and Lawrence Dubrow & As-
Sociates as a copy-writer-producer. He will
be responsible for writing, producing and
directing Adler's radio and TV and _ print
advertising.

CHARLES R. YATES, JR., is section manager in
the Commercial Credit Analysis Division of
the Citizens and Southern National Bank in
Atlanta.

STEPHEN C, WoopruFF has entered training
on Saipan in the Mariana Islands in prepara-
tion for regular Peace Corps service. Fol-
lowing his training he will be working as a
commissioner’s assistant in the native govern-
ment of Saipan.

 

In Memoriam

 

1907

JOHN David ZENTMYER, an outstanding edu-
cator in Maryland, died June 19, 1974.
Zentmyer served 38 years as principal of
several high schools in Washington County,
including the last 20 years as head of the
former Hagerstown High School. He re-
tired in 1946. He was a former president of
the Washington County Board of Educa-
tion and a director of the YMCA. As a mem-
ber of the Washington County Retired

Teachers Association, he helped promote
legislation for the teaching profession.

1908

HORACE WHALEY PHILLIPS, a well-known resi-
dent of Hardeeville, S$. C. and a long-time
dealer in lumber and timber, died April 17,
1974. Phillips was a veteran of World War
I and also served with the War Department
during World War Il. He was a former
member of the Alumni Board of Directors
of Washington and Lee and served for many
years as class agent. He was also a former
director of Farmers Bank of Nansemond of
Suffolk, Va.

1910

ROBERT GRAHAM Ayres of Franklin, Ohio,
died June 8, 1974. He was office manager and
purchasing agent for the Logan-Long Co.,
manufacturers of asphalt roofing, for 34
years before his retirement in 1961. Ayres
was a member of the Franklin area histori-
cal society and a member of the Franklin
Board of Education from 1938 to 1949.

i9t2

THE Rev. Harry Scotr Correy of The
Hermitage Methodist Home in Richmond,
Va., a retired United Methodist minister,
died June 8, 1974. He was superintendent
of the Danville District of the Methodist
Church from 1942 to 1948. He served as pas-
tor in several churches including the Metho-

dist church in Lynchburg, where he retired

in 1961. In addition to his ministerial serv-
ice, he led many study trips to Europe and
the Near East as an officer in Pilgrimage As-
sociates,

1925

SAMUEL CLAIBORNE LAWSON died April 19,
1974 in Vero Beach, Fla. Lawson was a prom-
inent cattleman and held several interests
in Central Florida, including Stone Island
Ranch at Enterprise.

£929

J. MILLER SHERWOOD, a retired oil company
official who maintained homes in Baltimore
and Gibson Island, Md., died June 27, 1974.
In 1961 he retired as vice president of Sher-
wood Division of the old Sinclair Refining
Co. Sherwood was also a former member of
the board of the Annapolis Banking and
Trust Co. A racing yachtsman, Sherwood won

39

 

 

 

Dies at Age! 1 03

 

 

 

--Davip MeKay, founder of the Pac 7 ‘Tele
scription System in Santa Cruz, Calif., di
- June 11, 1974. A native of Memphis
_ McKay owned Radio Station KO
_. Reno, stations in Vallejc anc —aS |
"was associated with KJBS in San
| McKay went to Santa Cruz in |
started cable TV.

 

 

- with the Boein Co. at Kennedy Space
ter, Fla., died April 30, 1974. Lis gsto
_was also president of E. C. Livingston
Manufacturing Co. in New Oxford,

_ which was founded by his father in 1898. He
bed a member is the | © Society o American

 

 

 

 

7 ea Fae

 

sulting and» : “ese
= ato ) nae 8, 1974. He held prof

| and Broward in 1915. He served two |

years as president of the Senate in
a and 1911. Hudson neceaved his —

 
 
 
 
 

| é i" finportanie part in pass.
ing en first” child. labor law
d introduced the state’s first ju-
venile court” ‘bill. He was, a hecial

 

 

 
   

sons. ay

er “this is with the inajority « or with
the minority—he always stood for the
moral side of every question, believ- -

ing in the uplift and betterment of

his fellow man.” Hudson’ 's outstand-

ing accomplishments | are legendary. —

He was a founding member of the
Historical

da and. was. a member of many pro-

 

fessional organizations. A loyal alum- |
nus, Hudson had visited the campus
several times even in his later years.

 

Alumni _

 

upon hearing of | Hudson's death, said /
Lee has lost one of |
is ned ae colorful d

 
 

“Washington and
her most.

 

-distingu |

Society of Southern Flori-

 

 

 

nysician in Orlando, Fla.
i native of Elizabeth,

 
 
 

1 ed ‘to. ‘many ‘local and. ‘foreign
and to the Rentval Florida an

1987

ALEXANDER ROBERT ABRAHAMS, I formerly
an executive with the Traffic Department |
of DuPont Co. in Wilmington, Del
Feb. 28, ‘1974. |

1939

| Dr. ROBERT STUART ALLEN, an orthodontist in
Jacksonville, a died Dec. 28, 1973.

 

JAMES Dowetas ela, director of | the

  

- firm — in Alexandria,

 
 
 
  
 

 

sional P eeolbeine: and th t :

 

American © Association of Petroleum Geolo
gists. McLean was author of numerous - sci-
entific p
member
he was _
Committee of the Marine Technology

lications and articles ana was a

 

h airman of, ‘the Marine Biology
Society.

 

A POET AT HEART

      
  
 
 
    
   
   

3 ea

‘many of his

And I with Thee.

Ralph Irwin Cohen, Class of 43, 7
whose career of public service cover- _
| died | July 2, 1974, in
Palm ‘Springs, Calif. A chemist by
profession, he was first with the Re- _
search Department of the Bureau of —
Standards and then with the Bureau
of Printing and Engraving in Wash- —
ington, D. C. He was a son of Abra-
ham B. Cohen, founder of the U. S.
Shoe Corp. of Cincinnati, Ohio, and —
is survived by his wife, Mrs. Julia Co- _

 

ed 30 years, ¢

hen of Cincinnati. Cohen was a de-
voted and gen e)

 

 

One of his spiritual poems,

 

Wherefore shall I seek Thee?
In what corner of the vast universe

Dare I call Thy name and You will ;

answer me? —

Softly, Your gentle voice comes to me, |

Not from the erat of space
Nor from the cragg

 

An ie world of an
unknown race. -

om these, but from
my ‘mind and. heart,

Where You are ever with me

 

 

 

 

‘ous alumnus of W&L.
Poetry writing was his hobby, and
yoems were published. 7
| | written in |
April of this year, is printed below: _

gy plains that mark ;

| we

 

 

rs

 

 

Fill in, detach, and mail to:

Awards Committee

Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

(Use separate sheet for additional information.)

See Page 27 for explanation of awards program.
The deadline for nominations is December 15, 1974.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOMINATION FORM FOR THE DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS AWARD

NOTE: Be sure the Nominee:

1. Has been out at least 10 years—his class must be ’64 or earlier.

2. Has not received an Honorary Degree from Washington and Lee University.

3. Is not an employee of the University in any capacity.

4, Is not a member of the University Board of Trustees or the Alumni Board of Directors.

Nominee'® FURR cc ccecceclecncccceccsetscersecsssemnscneuceyleces se MUMIA OL CMO GA UI ae

Soe e wet ee ere sree er rere ser esereresereeeseeeeseseseeesee esses eeseses®

PROS COO COE SETHE EEO HR EAN ESE REE OR EEA SO Ae KE EHO MO MIR OO EN HOH OE MOSS 04 6 eK RO COME MEOH EHH COC OLE ROE erro Eee Dede HED EERE EER EOE ETERS HH EE HED DHete BAH pih ie b&b ee ah ebybl aia lee mal erie eel wle 0 aie Mobo ele ewe bli ke gee oie

SR OER EEE ROE AF Oe ROR RES OR Te Aa Re Sa ee ER RAH ORM MRE SOO E'S S66 Ob 06 OP oO OOD OEM OSLO ee eee eee ee ed aoe ee OOK Oe OOOH EO 66 OF O86 0.4.8 be Oe eee he ei a lk Ob 0 ae Welk wlieites eA ala Wa ea acwoiateie eiatele a Ghibale Wee

Service to W&L (class agent, alumni activity, student recruitment and referrals, loyalty). Sponsor’s assessment of

MOMIMECE’S SET VICE CH FETIAM BENE es elec iclicccccset ce cecccescccacccccececcsanscsccerncavestdicecestuencsesbeletesecscablcevseag (SO) MAGA Nate’,

FeO OOOH TOO HEH HEHEHE EER EME EE AHO EEK SIMO AE ROPE RR ee a eRe a eee REO CAT Ce hE eae EP He FO O10 FOO 6 6 OW DOr eH eo ee eee S OCOD CEH DE DERE e Doom aH eHTORHOEHHEOHEH ERO REO EOE OE OREO OH Ob eae e Oh O66 4:0 6b We oe ele & oe ale <a

“eee ec cceerr reer e eee ee ee ee we eT eH eH HTT OTH OHHH EHH HTT H HHT THT H HH THO HHH EEE HEHE SESE HEE EEE E EOE ESET TT HHH HHHH HEHE HOLE HEEL EEE H HEHE EEE E HELE TEESE EEE E EEE EEE EEE ESE E EEE EOE Og enn eeccceereceeeeoeereees

PTO HHO SHEO HEHEHE SHEE EEE EE EAH HH ES HORE HE RS SMR Y ERS Re ee RM SR eR Ee PEO EE HO 0 0 OOO SOOO H EOC COTS CSTE EEO DERE ONO OOOOH HHS OS HOOKED HEAD HO OH REO 96 0 wb Oe OCS wee Ob Hae Caw ak b ek CbLEe Bleeds be alk ea we

FOTO OOH OEE OE HP ROSE OH OH EEE HEHE TEE E ME OME EERE EE HEE RAE REM SER SES ES ORE OE ROOK OH OM PRE HE OO OOO Bo H.G. 6 8 Oe Hee Se CEH HH ERT OOOH EEL OOO CE HEE EEO ED HOMOGE CERES ED OW OO bbe EHO Ov eb dew Ow EN Obi OM Mb oes Cake vee ellee a @

CES H OHH ESSE HESS ESE HOHE HM HEHE AED SOOO E UH OEE ETOH OOF OVER F.8 F1G OOO EO EH SEO POM OOO OEE H 408 60 60081066606 OH eR Oe OO EERE Se REEH RSS OWNS CESEREO COHN DEE ED OC He ed eHHROCHOROREHE RES EORERO ESO HOR OE EA MOO Meh Dee eCE OREO ES

Please attach additional data and your assessment of the nominee (be brief and limit to one page).

Recommended | Dyson ic cagisaspeeene i Wtm eee ed eau tane ta es so adlivepibssowevacsesusnbascsouerd saan tes nas MOlInCus Veli ila siuessuuls bury blescue nua ucla

PUT OSS honoosc cs iscccsde ska Ce Ce ON i ee ee ee a ae PRE ee

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

&% THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY

WASHINGTON € LE
E
LEXINGTON va oe
24450

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

ee —— é

, a a we wa: ~
2 Ros
= ; : (Pe

 
    

 

  

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes.
Price: $38.00, effective Sept. 15, 1974, for set
of four, including shipping charges.

Available in blue only. Immediate shipment.

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LeEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

NOTE: The above price represents an increase due to rising costs. A limited number of sets are
available at this price. It is expected that after January, 1975, the price will advance to $45.00
per set.

 

 

