 

et .

 

 

arena ria ai nti oie eae a

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 55, Number 8, November 1980

William C. Washburn, ’40 .................cccccececeececees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ....................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ...............ccccccceceeeee Associate Editor
P. Craig Cornett, 80 .............c cece eee ee eee Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ............ccccc cece cececnceeneees Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, 73 .............cccccec eee e eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

A Busy October ..............ccccccececcececececuceceeeaens l
Art Study Center 2.0.0.0... 0... cc ccccccccccecccncnceeeeees 8
Lee Research Program ................cccccececeeeeeeeeeees 10
Hippocampus Research ..................0ccccececeeeeeeees 12
W&L Gazette 2.00... cece cece cece cece eeecncneneneees 14
Decade of Study Abroad ................cccccceeeeeeeeeees 20
Fall Sports Roundup ...................cccecceeceeeeeeeees 22
Chapter News ...............cccecececeeeccecececseececneees 24
Class Notes ..............ccccccececcececuceceecucescuseeenens 27
In Memoriam ............ 0.0... cccccecececececeececuseeueens 32

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RICHARD A. DENNY JR., 52, Atlanta, Ga.
President

WILLIAM B. OcILviE, 64, Houston, Texas
Vice President

PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

PETER A. AGELASTO III, 62, Norfolk, Va.
W. DONALD Bain, ‘49, Spartanburg, S.C.
ANDREW N. Baur, ‘66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.
JAMES F.. GALLIVAN, 151, Nashville, Tenn.
OwEN H. HARPER, 159, Pasadena, Calif.

G. RUSSELL LApDD, 57, Mobile, Ala.
WILLIAM E. LATTURE, 49, Greensboro, N.C.
JoHN H. MCCORMACK Jr., '50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM C. NORMAN JR., 56, Crossett, Ark.

CS

THE MOOD OF FALL: In our mountains, the eminent word-
limner Guy Friddell wrote in The Virginia Way, people are
‘‘aware almost constantly of the weather, the changes in the
time of day, and the seasons’ altering touch. . . . The elements
move on a broad canvas . . . when shafts of sunlight stab
through the clouds and strike the earth, the viewer feels he is
seeing things at the start with the Lord separating light from
darkness.’’ So it was when Pat Hinely took our cover photo in
southwestern Rockbridge County this autumn. Clearly, some
things never change hereabouts; but others do. As this issue
demonstrates, this fall at W&L was anything but still.

 

 

 

 

- ey -

 

 

%

oe
ee

ae

eS

es

ss

ae

Ee
Sr

Re:

eS ee

ee

+

a

-”

SB
-

Pie
o%

 

 

 

 

 

A large group of alumni gathered on campus
on October 3 and 4 for three annual meetings.
The Alumni Board of Directors met with 100
percent attendance. The Council of the Law
School Association, the law alumni organiza-
tion, met in Lewis Hall. And the Class Agents,
those volunteers who carry out the University’s
all-important annual-giving program, held their

Clockwise from upper left: Members of the Law
School Council observe new audio-visual
equipment in Lewis Hall. Bill McClintock, ’53,
Annual Fund Chairman, makes a point during
Class Agent Weekend. Herbert Jahncke, ’ 30,
Milton Herndon, ’56L, and Opie Pollard, ’54,
’57L, listen as President Huntley describes the
importance of the 1981 Annual Fund during the

Class Agent workshop. Law Alumni Chairman Bill
Ford, ’61L, and Development Director Farris
Hotchkiss, ’58, relax at a cookout at Hotchkiss’ s
home for Class Agents. An informal luncheon at
the Alumni House provided an opportunity for
alumni and their wives to relax and get acquainted
on Saturday.

 

 

 

 

 

 

A

a
‘s

 

 

a

eh

 

Denes
Ee:

Be

 

 

 

to their professors, attended informal seminars,
heard a talk by President Huntley, and saw
Washington and Lee defeat Hampden-Sydney
in football on Wilson Field.

The following weekend was Homecoming,
sponsored by the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association. More than 300 alumni and their
guests toured the new facilities on campus—

Below: Offensive line coach Frank Miriello shows
the team a new play during a time-out in the W&L-
Sewanee Homecoming game (W&L won, 20-14).
Bottom left: Chemistry professor Keith Shillington
plants a kiss on the 1980 Homecoming Queen,

Lucy Carter Fulton, a junior from Mary Baldwin
College, who represented Kappa Sigma. Below
right: Skip Lichtfuss, ’74, cheers the alumni team
on during the annual varsity-alumni lacrosse game
(W&L’s varsity defeated the alumni, 18-10).

 

 

 

 

 

—

aS

(3

:

an
oes a

ae

nt oe

ee

ae
ee
sis

=

al

23

. 3
- 3

S
s
.
—

—

ee
i see
an a

 

 

annual fall meeting of the Board of Trustees
and another Special Alumni Conference, at
which members of the Robert E. Lee Associates
were special guests. The conference gave the
Associates, among whom were many alumni,
parents, and friends, an in-depth look at teach-
ing and research at W&L. It also offered them
an opportunity to talk at length and at leisure

Clockwise from upper left: A seminar for the
Special Alumni Conference on how W&L is
financed was led by James M. Ballengee, ’48L,
chairman of the Board of Trustees’ Committee on
Budget and Audit, and E. Stewart Epley,
University Treasurer. Dr. Gary Dobbs, ’70,
associate professor of biology, and Dr. Sidney
Coulling, ’46, professor of English, told the
participants what it’s like to teach at the

University. Trustees J. Alvin Philpott, ’45, and
Frank C. Brooks, ’46, talk with economics
professor John M. Gunn as they tour McCormick
Hall, the new home of the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics. While W&L places its
primary emphasis on teaching, research is not
forgotten, as psychology professor Leonard
Jarrard and history professor Roger Jeans explain
in a seminar on faculty research.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

os

ai

aoe

-
sw

a

eee

ee:
cade
gi

j

<i
i

 

 

 

 

   

ee

 

+
.

 

 

 

:

 

 

 

 

 

       

    
 

       
 
 

Sa

 

  
 
  

3
eee
eae

      

     
 
   

Re
SS
ee

 

   

 

ee
ie

ee

 

 
  
  
  
  
  
  

  

 
  

 
 

cee

 
   

peers

 
 
 
 

 

           

   

     

  

 

 

 

. - -
a hoe - 7 ; a a -
ok : ; - - yy -
— Oo . - -
ep a - - - - a
: 7 — - a Oo
- 4 - - - . -
OO :
7 7 -
a 7 : : ;

 

 

    

 

by P.. Craig Cornett, ’80

LEE RESEARCH PROGRAM

On Its 20th Birthday, After-Hours Intellectual Inquiry Remains Its Hallmark

Original research—tesearch of substance,
research that adds useful information that
formerly wasn’t known—is a thing
usually associated with graduate school.
When one thinks of MIT or Stanford or a
vast number of other universities, research is
what comes to mind first (or at least early).
For good reason, ‘‘graduate-level research’’
is often a redundancy.

At Washington and Lee, we boast that
we are a teaching institution above all else.
President Huntley said it in 1968, in his
inaugural address: ‘‘[We are] an institution
which unashamedly proclaims that there is
no higher goal to which a scholar can aspire
than to be a vital teacher.’’ Just recently he
said it again: ‘‘We are primarily a faculty of
teachers—men and women who are
convinced that for us, the most satisfying and
important career can be found in the
teaching/learning process with young
minds.’’ Our admissions literature
emphasizes the University’s steadfast
commitment to remaining ‘‘one of the
nation’s outstanding teaching institutions.’’

Does research, then, not fit in with
W&L’s philosophy, with our approaches to
education, with our aspirations?

Hardly. President Huntley also said, in
that same recent breath: ‘‘This taculty is
dedicated to the conviction that teaching and
professional fulfillment are career objectives
that are consistent with each other and which
bring the greatest measure of personal
satisfaction.’’ Teaching and research are the
opposite of incompatible. They reinforce
each other; each is indispensable.

The faculty knows this and appreciates it.
‘*There is a lot of research and [scholarly]
writing going on here,’’ says Dr. William
Buchanan, head of the politics department,
author of two books, co-author of three
others, NSF and Fulbright fellow, who came
back to W&L, where he had gone to college
himself, after teaching at three universities
(Tennessee, Mississippi State, Southern Cal)
with big graduate departments. ‘‘But we do
it not as the alternative to perishing; we do it
because we like to do it.”’

Says Dr. Louis W. Hodges, head of the
University’s programs in legal, journalistic
and medical ethics: ‘‘We carry out research
and we publish—more than most faculties in
colleges our size—although we receive our

10

 

has had a long-time interest in genetic research, is working with two Lee Research Scholars this year.

principal reward and our principal sense of
achievement from teaching. . . . What is
unusual and important about Washington and
Lee’s philosophy is that more than any other
place I know, Washington and Lee comes
close to providing in actual fact the
environment in which those ideals can be
pursued and achieved.’’

The 1979-80 Report of Faculty Scholarly
Activity and Public Service is, in fact, 16
pages of single-spaced typed entries.

And not a little of the research it
documents came out of the University’s
Robert E. Lee Research Program, which this
fall marks its 20th anniversary.

The Lee Research Program has given
more than 1,200 students the extraordinary
opportunity to undertake original research—
on a one-to-one basis with a professor—in
almost a thousand different projects.
Established in 1960 through a gift of more
than $250,000 from the late Dr. Gustavus
Benz Capito, ’99, of Charleston, W.Va., the
program has achieved that rarity of academe,
unanimity in the judgment of students and
teachers alike that it is as intellectually
valuable as it is practically successful.

The almost unlimited range of Lee
Research projects—there were 46 last year
alone, and 38 are underway already this
year—gives students first-hand familiarity

with complex research tools and techniques
that most students elsewhere cannot acquire
until they reach graduate school. Dr. William
J. Watt, Dean of The College and head of
the committee on campus that oversees the
program, says many students here have
found their projects or the discipline so
fascinating it has led them to further study
and advanced academic degrees. Often the
projects undertaken by students are based on
faculty research and interest, but students
can—and often do—develop ideas of their
own for projects and seek a professor to lend
advice and supervision.

A look at the variety and types of
research projects conducted in 1979-80 may
indicate the breadth of the program and show
why many are of professional importance:

—In geology, James E. Rayhorn, a
senior, and Dr. Samuel J. Kozak determined
tne relative value for the acceleration of
gravity and recorded it along with elevation
and longitude and latitude at 86 stations in
three Virginia counties. The data obtained
will be used in conjunction with similar
information from other gravity surveys in
order to interpret more accurately the
geological structures underlying the Blue
Ridge.

—TIn physics, Dr. Ronald L. Reese and
senior Steven M. Everett studied the oris’

of the Julian Day calendar and the reasons
behind its structure. A paper describing the
findings will soon be published in The
American Journal of Physics.

—German major Richard G. Bird
conducted research into the concept of
‘‘armed neutrality,’’ focusing on its
development as an alternative to military
alliances, its importance today, and its
significance in the future in the international
system. He made extensive use of library
facilities across the state to examine the
foreign policies of Austria, Finland, Sweden
and Switzerland, with special emphasis on
German-language sources. Bird, who is now
studying political science on a Rotary
Fellowship at the University of Bonn in West
Germany, developed his research to help
politics professor Dr. Milton Colvin with a
book Colvin is writing.

—Edward K. Stein, a 1980 law graduate,
and Prof. Peter G. Glenn examined and
categorized all the reported opinions in U.S.
courts in which a judge responded to a
motion to disqualify the attorney. Their aim
was to determine what value systems the
courts used in deciding such motions on
grounds of conflict of interest.

—In chemistry, Douglas L. Gaker, David
H. Harpole and John C. Kisalus, working
with Drs. Michael Pleva and J. Keith
Shillington, conducted a project involving
the alkylation of 6-mercaptopurine, a drug
useful in cancer chemotherapy, and
subsequently incorporated the alkylated
purine in a liposome.

—In art, senior Steve Andrews studied
19th-century tax records in Rockbridge
County, comparing assessed building values
in order to gauge the type of dwellings
constructed in the period. The research
results will be used in a book on the historic
architecture of the county by Dr. Pamela H.
Simpson of the art faculty.

—Using public school teachers as an
example, 1980 law graduate Joan M.
Gardner and Prof. Anne Unverzagt carried
out research involving specific issues in
employment discrimination law. They
compiled the executive orders and legislative
acts dealing with the prohibition of
discrimination in employment, together with
an analysis of Title VII “‘pretext’’ cases.

This year, by way of further diverse

example, psychologists Dr. David Elmes and
senior Jeff Herdelin are looking at practice in
human memory. In biology, Dr. L. R.
Emmons and sophomores Ken Williams and
Paul Maurer are characterizing mutants of E.
Coli. History professor Roger B. Jeans and
Clara Yue, an exchange student from Hong
Kong’s Chung Chi College, are engaged in
research on a Chinese philosopher-statesman
that involves translating original source
material. And the problems of racial and
class conflict brought about by the forced
busing in Boston are being examined by
Charles Mason, a sociology student, and Dr.
David Novak.

Students and faculty participants in the
program comment on its importance with
enthusiasm. Goetz Eaton, a 1980 German
major who is now at the University of South
Carolina-working toward a master’s degree in
international business, says the Lee Research
Program ‘‘gave me a chance to put my skills
to work. I found that things I had learned in
the classroom were now of value to the
professor and his work.”’

Vanderbilt Medical School student
William H. Matthai, 1980 valedictorian,
found the program to be ‘‘of great
importance. Med schools are impressed by
such work, and it gave me a better chance at

being accepted to the school of my choice.’”’

Stephen H. Andrews, who provided
research data for a forthcoming book,
appreciates the opportunity ‘‘to work closely
with the professor, but I still had a great deal
of independence. I had to use my own
judgment and expertise.’ Andrews, a W&L
senior, hopes to pursue a career in
architectural history and museum art.

John Stout, a recent graduate working
toward a Ph.D. in psychology at the
University of Houston, says that ‘‘in the
social sciences, it’s important to do some
work in the field with a professional. We did
background research and experimental
design—something usually reserved for
graduate students. I was able to formulate for
myself an idea of what the field of
psychology entails—something that has
helped me in graduate school.’’

Students working on Lee Research
projects receive no academic credit; the
Capito endowment pays them a stipend, but
it is so modest that anyone whose goal is
earning money would do better to answer a
matchbook advertisement and become an
envelope-addresser.

They do it for the best of reasons there
can be in a college: solely for the reward of
the intellectual experience.

 

Dr. Pamela Simpson and a Lee Research Scholar measure The Stone House, home of M. W. Paxton, 49, in
order to draw detailed floor plans for inclusion in a book Simpson is writing on historic architecture.

11

 

by Robert S. Keefe

EXPLORING THE HIPPOCAMPUS

Jarrard’s Student-Assisted Research Advances Knowledge of Brain Disorders

The harmony between undergraduate
teaching at W&L and basic, original research
is perhaps nowhere more conspicuously
apparent than in psychology, thanks in good
measure to a little chunk of the brain, in man
about the size of an okra and shaped like a
seahorse (thus its name), the hippocampus.

When Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard began
looking into it almost two decades ago, the
hippocampus was a little-explored suborgan
that was known to have an association with
memory.

Today, the hippocampus is linked, when
it is damaged, to disorders ranging from
pathological hyperactivity to epilepsy. It is
affected profoundly by lead absorbed from
the environment and by Valium from the
pharmacy. And science’s understanding of
the symmetrical pair of nodes that form the
hippocampus continues to be substantially
enhanced by Jarrard’s research, for which he
has acquired an international reputation.

Since 1966, he has received a third of a
million dollars in grant support from the
National Science Foundation for his work,
including a $97,000, three-year extension
just this past summer. He has lectured before
professional societies and written extensively
on his studies (three dozen research papers),
with recent articles in the journals Behavioral
and Brain Sciences and Physiological
Psychology; research findings presented last
year to an international conference on the
role of the hippocampus in learning and
memory, sponsored by the National Institute
of Mental Health; another paper on the
jawbreaker topic ‘‘ Acquisition of a Complex
Spatial Discrimination Task by Rats With
Selective Hippocampal Lesions’’ in mid-
November to the Midwestern Psychological
Association—to name just a few examples.

Yet like every other department head at
W&L (and he is far from the only prolific
researcher among them), he teaches a full
load of classes as well, and, like most of
them too, even deliberately assigns himself a
section of the introductory course.

Len Jarrard has taught at W&L since
1959, with five years away in the late ’60s
when he returned for a while to Carnegie-
Mellon University in Pittsburgh, where he
had earned his Ph.D., to teach (mostly at the
graduate level) and to preside over the
psychology department’s graduate program

12

 

Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard points to hippocampus on a model of the human brain.

there for three years.

He came back to W&L as department
head in 1971—largely because, he says, he
missed the undergraduate contact which is
W&L’s stock-in-trade but is conspicuously
absent, as he told the University’s Special
Alumni Conference this fall, in larger,
research-oriented universities.

Washington and Lee provides him with
research facilities; his NSF support pays for
the things always associated with lab
research, from equipment and supplies to
special-bred white rats; it also pays his
research technician, Marsha Harris.

And W&L and the NSF pay as well for
research assistance from his psychology
students at W&L, both during the school
year and in the summers.

Jarrard also teams up routinely with

students under the University’s Robert E.
Lee Research Program on yet more research
projects, some bearing on his general
hippocampus studies, some in different fields
altogether.

The work of other investigators lately has
shown that the hippocampus isn’t fully
formed at birth—in humans, not until age six
or so. That discovery has become the basis
for one element in Jarrard’s current approach
to experimentation with the hippocampus of
the lab rat—in particular, the effects during
infancy on the developing hippocampus of
such physical trauma as lead in drinking-
water. (These new studies of Jarrard’s have
excited a good bit of interest on the part of
the federal Environmental Protection
Agency.) The pharmacological firm that
makes Valium is supplying him with

A cross-section of a laboratory rat’s hippocampus.

quantities of that drug for the portion of his
experiments measuring its effect on the
hippocampus too; two W&L pre-med
students in Jarrard’s lab-research course last
spring discovered that Valium injected into a
very pregnant rat resulted in damage to her
baby rats’ memory capacity.

(Jarrard likes to tell the story of how the
two students, Robert M. Eisdorfer and H. D.
Graham III, both now in medical school,
were so fired up that they couldn’t quit their
research at the end of the term and were still
working in the lab on the day before
commencement. Now another student,
Edward G. Brooks, has picked up where
graduation finally forced them to leave off.
With a Lee Research grant, Brooks is
carrying out histological examinations to
determine the exact nature and extent of the
Valium-related damage to the ratlings’
hippocampuses. )

One of Jarrard’s newest, most promising
pure-research approaches involves a
substance called kanic acid, extracted from a
certain kind of seaweed found off the
Japanese coast, which acts as a specific
neurotoxin—that is, it affects certain kinds of
brain cells but not others. In the case of

; , “ = a
es 4 * t
‘ Z ae 2
. Pee! ; i
= * a i ed
* pe + * 2

 

kanic acid, its effect is to destroy the
receptor side of a neuron; when it is injected
carefully into the hippocampus, its effect can
thus be limited (and therefore can be
controlled and monitored) with far greater
precision th. ~ with some other methods of
creating deliberate hippocampal damage.

One effect of kanic acid is that, when
injected into the rat’s hippocampus, an
epileptic seizure is liable to occur. And now
the researcher comes full circle, for the same
Valium that can damage the developing

 

hippocampus is also an anti-convulsant and
can help relieve those symptoms of epilepsy
that result from the kanic acid.

A couple of years ago, Len Jarrard said
that in his mind one of W&L’s chief
strengths is that students here are ‘‘genuinely
encouraged’”’ to stretch their minds by
covering, in their four years, as much
academic territory as they can. ‘‘They’ll get
depth,’’ he said, ‘‘if they go on to graduate
school.’’

‘*Our research opportunities,’’ he said,
**greatly increase the value of the education
our students achieve, because first-hand
research provides them with ways of thinking
about research and an understanding of what
research entails—the kinds of questions one
must ask, and the procedures for determining
answers. It gives them an advantage, I think,
that students elsewhere generally don’t
have.”’

That, to the Len Jarrards who add up to
Washington and Lee, is a distinctive part of
the value of the University—where teaching,
grounded in the broad-based liberal arts as he
and they insist it must be, can go hand in
hand with actual, original, substantial,
important and gratifying research.

13

GAZETTE

CS

New Trustee; New C-Building, Newcomb Renewed; Our Peripatetic Professors

Ross R. Millhiser, Philip Morris Inc. executive, new Trustee.

 

 

Millhiser is elected
to Board of Trustees

Ross R. Millhiser, vice chairman of the
board of Philip Morris Inc., has been elected
to a six-year term on the University’s Board
of Trustees. He will take office at the
Board’s meeting in Baltimore in February,
simultaneously with the Rt. Rev. Christoph
Keller, bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of
Arkansas, whose election to the W&L Board
took place earlier this year.

14

 

A Yale graduate who rose in the ranks of
Philip Morris from operating a cigarette-
making machine in his native Richmond in
1941, Millhiser has long been active in
support of higher education, particularly
Virginia’s liberal arts colleges.

He became vice chairman of Philip
Morris Inc. in 1978 after five years as
president of the diversified company, which
now has six divisions that had revenues
exceeding $8 billion last year. When he
assumed that office, the corporation had five
divisions, including the then-recently

 

acquired Miller Brewing Co., which
subsequently rose from the nation’s seventh-
largest brewing company to second. During
Millhiser’s presidency Philip Morris Inc. also
acquired The Seven-Up Co., the third-largest
soft-drink producer.

Millhiser is a trustee and former chairman
of the 12-institution Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges and is a trustee of
Independent College Funds of America. He
is a director of First & Merchants Corp. and
Best Products Inc., both of Richmond, and is
chairman of the executive committee of The
Tobacco Institute in Washington, D.C.

In 1978 Millhiser was the keynote
speaker representing the nation’s business
and industry at Washington and Lee’s black-
tie Robert E. Lee Associates banquet in New
York, where he announced Philip Morris’
$100,000 gift in support of developing the
old library building, McCormick, as a new
home for the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics, a project completed
just this autumn.

Millhiser lives in Rumsford, N.J. He and
his wife have four children, including a son,
Thomas McNally Millhiser, a third-year law
student at Washington and Lee.

 

 

Commerce School
occupies new home

The School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics moved into its new home in
September—McCormick, the former library,
just renovated and remodeled at a cost of
$3.5 million.

The ‘‘new’’ facility has three times as
much usable space as Newcomb, the
commerce unit’s building for seven
decades—37,545 sq. ft., as against 11,542.
(Newcomb is now undergoing a renovation
of its own to become the home of four
undergraduate departments in the humanities;
see the separate article in this section of the
magazine.)

McCormick has seven classrooms,
including two technologically sophisticated,
auditorium-like conference classrooms, one
seating 80 and the other 50. It also has
offices for 23 faculty members and the dean.

The familiar old reading room in
McCormick has been preserved in the
remodeling, though fully refurbished, and

becomes the school’s own reading room.

The central section of the facility has
three stories, replacing the five old levels of
bookstacks.

McCormick is actually two structures,
One inside the other. The central portion was
built in 1906 as the University’s library, and
it was enlarged in 1941 by construction of a
new building around the walls of the old.

The exterior appearance of McCormick is
unchanged, although there has been
extensive landscaping around the building.

Newcomb had long been inadequate to
meet the academic requirements of the so-
called *‘C-School,’’ which incorporates two
social sciences—economics and politics—as
well as strictly business-related courses.

Last year, 40 percent of W&L’s
undergraduate degrees were awarded by the
commerce division.

Only half the cost of the project has been
raised so far. The development program to be
concluded by the end of 1981 requires an
additional $1.8 million in gift commitments
toward the McCormick renovation.

 

 

Renovation begins
on Newcomb Hall

A $300,000 project now underway to
remodel Newcomb Hall, the 98-year-old
former commerce building, will provide a
new home with substantially improved
facilities for four undergraduate departments
in the humanities. |

Offices in remodeled Newcomb for 22
faculty members in history, sociology,
philosophy, and religion will be ready in
mid-April. Work on classrooms and seminar
rooms in the building will be completed over
the summer, and Newcomb will be in full
use by the beginning of classes in September
1981.

The project is being undertaken primarily
by Washington and Lee’s own buildings and
grounds department, with outside
subcontractors brought in as the work
requires.

The Newcomb remodeling program will
be similar to that undertaken in Tucker Hall
to provide office and classroom facilities for
the foreign-language departments.

The office-and-classroom areas of
Newcomb will be repartitioned to meet the

 

POD

 

 

Workm

W&L Trustees and administrators try out one of the Commerce School’ s auditorium-like classrooms.

needs of the four departments. Acoustics
will be improved, and electrical and
plumbing fixtures will be upgraded, although
those basic systems are in good shape,
according to the firm of Harris, Norman,
Giles & Walker, the University’s structural
engineering consultants.

That engineering study also determined
that Newcomb is in good structural

en pave parking lot adjacent to the new home of

    

yf Se aes

 

A pu on

e School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

th

 

condition, although the remodeling plans
also include cosmetic repairs to the facade of
the building.

Newcomb was completed in 1882 at a
cost of just $20,000—the gift of ‘‘a friend at
the North,’’ as Mrs. Warren Newcomb was
described. The portico and columns were
added in 1909. In 1936 the building was
renovated and fireproofed.

de GAZETTE

Originally the library and art building,
Newcomb became the home of the School of
Commerce, Economics, and Politics when
that division was added to the University in
1906. The commerce unit remained there
until this fall, when a $3.5-million
renovation of McCormick, W&L’s former
library building, was completed.

The four departments that will move into
Newcomb in 1981 are now scattered across
the Front Campus, including in the two
antebellum residences north of the
Colonnade—the result of severe
overcrowding throughout the undergraduate
divisions in recent years. In the philosophy
department alone, as an example, which has
just five faculty members, offices are
currently spread among two academic
buildings and one of the houses.

 

Holbrook Barber, ’17, Fund
increased to $100,000

Additional gifts totaling $50,000 from
Mrs. G. Holbrook Barber of Quogue, N.Y.,
have doubled the size of an Honor
Scholarship endowment she established in
her late husband’s memory three years ago.

The Barber Scholarship is awarded each
year to the senior who has ‘‘made the
greatest contribution to the spirit of the
campus and University life,’’ taking into
account helpfulness toward others, respect
for fellow students, participation in student
activities, character, and scholarship.

Holbrook Barber, a 1917 graduate of
Washington and Lee, earned his M.D.
degree at Columbia University and, like his
father and grandfather, was a physician in
private practice in Brooklyn for 30 years
until his retirement in 1951. He was also
medical director of Manhattan Life Insurance
Co. for many years as well.

 

Three W&L men
receive Rotary Fellowships

Two current seniors and a 1975 graduate
are among the recipients of Rotary graduate
fellowships for 1981-82. Robert H. Willis Jr.
of St. Petersburg, Fla., and D. Bruce Poole
of Hagerstown, Md., both of whom will
graduate next June, and William L.

16

Montgomery, a 1975 English major, will
Carry out graduate study abroad under the
program established by Rotary International.

Willis, an English major, president of the
student body, is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, and Omicron Delta
Kappa, and is student director of the regional
ODK organization. He will study English or
philosophy and a social science at St.
Andrew’s College in Scotland.

Poole, a history major, is a former
member of the student body Executive
Committee and plans to study social science
or history at the University of Melbourne in
Australia.

Originally from Rocky Mount, Va.,
Montgomery received a master’s degree in
English from the University of Birmingham
in England. He plans to work toward his
doctoral degree in Renaissance literature at
Oxford University’s St. Anne’s College.

 

 

1

 

Chi Psis settle
in their new house

W&L’s newest social fraternity, Chi Psi,
moved into its new home this fall in the
former Ann Smith School building, at the
edge of the campus across from the post
office. Chi Psi’s national headquarters has
spent more than $100,000 so far on

re
_
aw
A
yi

=

oe SS =.
‘

baad "
. a i
ee - ee “
. 2 , E =
» ~ RS
be J
a ih el
bas 2

 

renovating the building, and by the time the
project is completed the cost may reach as
high as $250,000.

Twenty students are living in the house
this fall, which is owned and maintained by
W&L. When Chi Psi’s renovation is
complete, the building will accommodate
nearly 30 men and will have a full kitchen
and several large meeting rooms.

 

 

New associate
in development office

Richard B. Sessoms, associate director of
the Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges since 1978 and an officer of
Colonial Williamsburg Foundation Inc. for
15 years prior to that, joined the University’s
development staff this autumn.

As associate development director at
W&L, Sessoms’ chief responsibilities center
on completion of the University’s $26-
million capital fund-raising objective, to be
achieved by the end of 1981.

Sessoms, a 1956 B.A. graduate of
Hampden-Sydney College, lived in
Lexington previously for three years when he
was sports information director and athletic
business manager at Virginia Military
Institute. He left those positions in 1963 to
join Williamsburg, where he was

 

 

Richard B. Sessoms
successively a press bureau staff writer and
manager of broadcast services, then assistant
director of public relations, and later director
of special events.

Sessoms’ wife, Sarah, is the daughter of

Dr. G. Francis Drake, professor of French at
W&L.

 

paintings by the Spanish master Goya, and
recent landscapes by David Loren Bass, a
North Carolina artist who was visiting art
instructor at W&L in 1976. Scheduled for
December is an oriental art exhibit and
shadow opera, ‘‘The Monkey King.”’

[_] The University Theatre opened its
1980-81 season with a production of The
Devil’s Disciple, the early Bernard Shaw
opus dissecting the American Revolution.
Another drama department production
scheduled later in the fall is ‘‘A Tudor
Banquet and Evening of Entertainment,’’ an
experimental theatre production recreating
fifteenth-century Tudor England dining and
entertainment.

—$ $e

 

 

 

 

In the fine arts

[_] Performances by the W&L Glee Club
this fall have included the now-traditional
Parents’ Weekend concert in Lee Chapel, a
joint singing appearance with the Glee Club
of Goucher College, and entertainment at the
black-tie banquet given by the Board of
Trustees in honor of the members of the
Robert E. Lee Associates. In February the
group will sing in the National Cathedral,
Washington.

The Parents’ Weekend program also
included the W&L music division’s other
performing groups, the Brass & Percussion
Ensemble and ‘‘Southern Comfort,”’ an
informal group of a dozen Glee Club
members (who also entertained in October at
the state meeting of the Garden Club of
Virginia).

[_] Early fall exhibitions in W&L’s
duPont Gallery have included recent works
by 16 artists from the collection of the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, aquatint

Faculty notes

[_] The research our faculty undertakes
on sabbatical is nothing if not eclectic—
ranging this autumn alone from explorations
of ancient Greek economic theories to
physical education in the Communist monde.

Here’s who’s on leave of absence this
academic term and what he (she) is up to:

—Norman F. Lord, professor of physical
education, taking a first-hand look at sports
culture and approaches to phys ed in the

Soviet bloc;

—DMaurice D. Leach Jr., head
undergraduate librarian, investigating
patterns of support for libraries in England;

—S. Todd Lowry, economics professor,
studying the economic and legal concepts
that characterized ancient Greece;

—John M. McDaniel, archaeologist and
associate anthropology professor, carrying
out studies of the archaeology of Virginia’s
Great Valley;

—Andrew W. McThenia Jr., professor of
law, investigating the standards by which
injunctions may be issued in contract
disputes;

—Clark R. Mollenhoff, investigative
reporter and journalism professor, at Oxford
in England on the mutual faculty exchange
program, digging into the relationship
between the British press and the Crown;

—David P. Robbins, assistant professor
of mathematics, conducting research into
national-security-related matters for the
Institute of Defense Analysis;

—Pamela Hemenway Simpson, associate
art-history professor, for continued research
into and writing about the historic
architecture of Rockbridge, both for her
forthcoming book on the topic and for a lead

 

A scene from the University Theatre’ s production of The Devil’s Disciple; the players are Laurie Price,
Lexington High School student; Whitcomb Welch, W&L senior; and Carla Dillon, a Mary Baldwin student.

17

ee GAZETTE

article planned by The Magazine Antiques;

—Thomas J. Ziegler, assistant drama
professor, who is studying techniques of
playwriting in collaboration with a number of
professional dramatists.

[_] The third edition of Understanding
Political Variables by William Buchanan,
head of the politics department, was
published by Scribner’s in October. Since it
was first issued in 1969, the book has
become perhaps the principal college text in
the field of political data analysis. Buchanan,
a 1941 W&L graduate, has taught at the
University since 1966.

[_] Dr. Charles F. Phillips, professor of
economics and first holder of the Robert G.
Brown Chair, directed seminars on utility-
industry regulation in Illinois (power-system
marketing, sponsored by Westinghouse),
Nebraska (‘‘Economics of the [Natural] Gas
Industry,’’ sponsored by Inter-North Inc., a
diversified energy company), Washington,
D.C. (general questions of utility regulation,
sponsored by the principal industry journal,
Public Utilities Reports), and New York City
(““The Cost-of-Money Approach’’ at a
corporate-finance seminar sponsored for
utility executives by Kidder, Peabody &
Co.).

[_] Dr. Gerard Maurice Doyon, professor
of art history, was one of two speakers
representing the United States at a conference
on French art that attracted teachers and
museum people from 50 nations to Montreal
in September. Doyon’s slide-lecture, which
he presented in French and English, was
entitled ‘‘Why So Few Women Artists in
19th-Century France?’’ and sparked an hour-
long debate in his audience.

[_] Robert J. de Maria, assistant
professor of broadcast journalism, was one
of 75 people chosen (from among 700
applicants) to take part in an International
Radio and Television Society workshop in
February, when events will be simulated by
computer and participants will make
judgments on news value.

[_] Dr. Pamela Hemenway Simpson,
associate art-history professor, delivered a
scholarly report on the relationship between
poetry and visual arts in the 1950s before a
meeting of the Southeast College Art
Conference in November. Simpson (who is
editor of the association’s annual journal as

18

 

Dr. William Buchanan, text author.

well) developed her article out of research
she conducted in recent years for an
interdepartmental course at W&L,
‘American Art and Literature,’’ which she
taught jointly with Dr. Robert P. Fure of the
English department.

 

Campus wrapup

[_] A collection of letters, editorial notes
and other writings by the famed and

 

controversial 20th-century poet Ezra Pound
remains on display in the Rare Book Area of
the new undergraduate library through the
end of December. The owner and lender of
most of the items is Eustace C. Mullins, ’49,
of Staunton. Mullins was a friend and
confidant of Pound during the poet’s later
years and is the author of a book about him,
This Difficult Individual.

[_] A Virginia General Assembly
subcommittee hearing on the question of
whether state legislation is necessary to help
preserve farmland took place in October in
Lewis Hall as a project of the Frances Lewis
Law Center. Participants in the two-day
session included land-use planners, lawyers,
an ethicist and an economist. The keynote
speaker, State Del. Ford C. Quillen, is
chairman of the Virginia House of Delegates
agriculture committee. The conference was
arranged by Frederic L. Kirgis, professor of
law and head of the Lewis Center, created in
1972 by Frances and Sydney Lewis for the
purpose of promoting research into and
discussion of issues ‘‘at the frontiers of the
law.”’

[_] A professional photographic historian
from Kentucky this past summer stumbled
onto the lost Franklin Institute Medal that
had been awarded in 1905 to Lexington’s
Michael Miley and his son, Henry—and
learned what the medal signified literally the

 

State Del. Ford C. Quillen (gesturing) speaks at agriculture subcommittee hearing, a Lewis Law Center program.

 

next day when he read a notice ina
professional journal of publication by
Washington and Lee of the exhibition
catalogue Michael Miley: American
Photographer and Pioneer in Color. Bill
Rodgers, brand-new owner of the medal, got
in touch with Dr. Pamela Hemenway

 

Simpson, associate art-history professor and
organizer of the Miley exhibition last winter,
and soon Rodgers and his wife were on
campus to see some of the experimental work
in color photography that led to the Franklin
honor.

[ ] Zeta Beta Tau’s class of 1959

Mr. and Mrs. Bill Rodgers examine Michael Miley prints in the University Library's Rare Book Room;
Rodgers found the once-lost medallion awarded to Miley for pioneer color photography; the medal is at

lower right on sofa.

 

presented a gift of cash this fall to be used
for scholarships in memory of the late David
A. Madison Jr., the University’s mailman
and campus sage who died last April. A
plaque that accompanied the gift now hangs
in Washington Hall.

 

Speakers on campus

[_] Leading the parade of visiting
scholars and commentators this fall were
three nationally known figures brought by
**Contact,’’ the Interfraternity Council’s and
student government’s symposium series, for
an examination of the economy as an issue in
the Presidential election and its aftermath:
Democratic U.S. Sen. Adlai Stevenson III of
Illinois, for an examination of his party’s
economic policies; Republican Sen. Richard
Schweiker of Pennsylvania, to describe the
GOP’s programs; and NBC News economic
affairs correspondent Irving R. Levine, for a
preview of the public economy under the
Reagan Administration. Both Stevenson (son
of the ’52 and 56 Democratic nominee) and
Schweiker (Gov. Reagan’s choice as running
mate in ’76) visited campus the week before
the election; Levine came the week after.

[_] Paul A. Poorman, editor of the Akron
Beacon Journal, was the keynote speaker in
November for the annual journalism ethics
institute sponsored by the University’s
Society and the Professions program.

[_] The head of Vassar College’s Asian
studies program, Dr. Donald Gillin, was at
W&L in October for an illustrated lecture on
images based on sex stereotypes held by
Chinese, Japanese and Americans about one
another. His visit was sponsored by W&L’s
own Asian studies program.

[_] The Philip F. Howerton Fund in
religion brought two theologians to the
University in October and November—Dr.
David F. Ottati of Union Theological
Seminary (Richmond) for a discussion of the
topic ‘‘Making Theology Intelligible in the
Modern World’’ and Reginald H. Fuller of
Virginia Theological Seminary to speak on
‘*The First Easter Day.’ The Howerton Fund
was established in 1972 by the widow of the
man it honors, a member of the class of 1925
and a former moderator of the Presbyterian
Church in the U.S. (Southern).

19

by P. Craig Cornett, ’80

STUDY ABROAD

Bavarians’ Visit to W&L Helps Mark Decade of Wide-Ranging Spring Term Programs

In the decade since W&L’s ‘‘new’’
curriculum was introduced, study abroad has
established itself as one of the most
successful six-week Spring Term
innovations. Programs now take students to
England, France, Germany, the
Mediterranean (Greece and Italy), Japan,
Spain, Taiwan, and even Darwin’s
‘‘evolutionary showcase,’’ the Galapagos
Islands off Peru.

Though each program is organized,
sponsored and supervised by a particular
academic department at the University—all
the foreign languages have study-abroad
courses, and so do classics, art, religion,
English, drama and biology—one of the
distinguishing characteristics of W&L’s
approach to off-campus study is that none of
the programs is restricted to students in that
department. If he has competence in the
language, any student can arrange with the
sponsoring department and a professor in
another W&L department to undertake a
specific research project and divide his
academic credit between both. Thus a
student in economics may study the
system of public finance in Nationalist China
while on the art department’s overseas
program there; a history major will study the
Third Reich using actual German source
materials with the German department’s
foreign-study group; a politics major might
examine the structure and operation of the
Chamber of Deputies while in Paris with the
French department’s program.

The German program provides an
excellent example of how the foreign study
program operates. W&L students, all of
whom must first demonstrate proficiency in
German, affiliate with the University of
Bayreuth in West Germany for the duration.
They live with host families during their stay
and undertake a project that usually
culminates in a major paper.

Festivities and ceremonies
commemorating the 10th-anniversary of
W&L’s study-in-Germany program took
place on both sides of the water this year.

Two groups of German visitors came to
Lexington. The first were host families from
Bayreuth, in August. They had a full
schedule of activities, ranging from an
afternoon at Goshen Pass to a day at the
Rockbridge Community Festival on Labor

20

 

 

Achim Schievelbusch, a school principal in Bayreuth and leader of one group of Bavarian visitors to W&L,

presents a Bayreuther Eichala, bearing his city’s coat of arms, to Prof. B. S. Stephenson, head of W&L’s

German department.

President Huntley (left) and K. D. Wolff, president of the University of Bayreuth, are shown above at a

 

luncheon with W&L’s top administrators and members of the W&L German department; Herr Wolff visited

W&L in September.

Day. They presented the University with an
Eichala, a traditional pewter mug bearing the
Bayreuth coat of arms, which is usually
reserved for distinguished friends of the city
and for special music festivals.

In the fall, the presidents of two German

universities, K. D. Wolff of the University
of Bayreuth and Horst Engerth of the Armed
Forces University in Munich, visited
Washington and Lee for two days of
discussions with W&L teachers and officials
about academic and administrative policies

 

and procedures, ranging from budget-making
and fund-raising to the ways the University’s
curriculum is developed.

Most of W&L’s programs operate on an
alternate-year basis, but the German group
has gone every year since study-abroad went
into operation 10 years ago—thanks, in large
part, to the ‘terrific relationships that have
built up between us and our Bayreuth friends
and colleagues,’’ as David B. Dickens,
associate German professor puts it, and
partly too because the W&L German faculty
has accomplished the nearly impossible,
keeping the increase in costs associated with
the program actually below inflation.

W&L set its ‘‘short term’’ at the end of
the year—in contrast with most colleges,
which for some reason insert it between their
two longer terms in mid-winter—largely
because field study in the natural sciences is

 

 

far more logically undertaken in the spring,
when things are alive and rivers unfrozen and
mountains not covered with snow, but also to
allow, even encourage, students and teachers
alike who go abroad to stay there after the
term is over if they want, whether for further
study or just for vacation.

Above: W&L students who participated in the

German study program last spring sit for a portrait

at the Eremitage, an 18th-century palace near
Bayreuth. In first row are Prof. David B. Dickens,

who led the group; Jeff Buntrock, ’81; Allen Gahan,

’82; David Core, ’82; Lee Woosley, ’82; Mark
Rentschler, ’82; back row, Rob Smitherman, ’81; Dave
Dudka, ’81; Geoff Oosterhoudt, ’82. At left, Lee
Woosley amd Mark Rentschler are shown in front

of the Municipal Church in Miltenberg.

21

by Kenneth Ries

Sports Information Director

FOUR WINNERS

For the First Time Since 1962, All Fall Varsity Teams Come Up With Winning Records

For the first time since 1962, all
Washington and Lee varsity fall sports
claimed winning records: Generals’ soccer
came in at 9-4-0, its first winning record
since 1973; football landed a 6-4-0 mark, its
first winning record since 1967; cross-
country posted a 7-5-0 record; and water
polo made it four-for-four with a 17-14-0
campaign. (In 1962 it was: soccer 6-3-2;
football 8-1-0; cross country 6-2-0. Water
polo became a varsity sport in 1977).

How did it happen? The answers:

In football, it happened with wins over
Hampden-Sydney (17-13 on Parents’
Weekend), over Sewanee (20-14,
Homecoming), over Delaware Valley (12-8,
the first opening-game win since 1973), over
Centre (16-9 at Centre), over Emory &
Henry (28-14 at Wilson Field), and finally
over Georgetown University (36-7 at
Georgetown on the final Saturday of the
season).

6-4-0. You have to go back to 1967’s 5-
4-0 to find the last winning record. You have
to go back to 1962’s 8-1-0 to find more
wins. Head coach Gary Fallon, five assistant
coaches, and 69 Generals finished as winners
for 1980.

‘I’m proud, real proud for these guys,”’
stated Fallon following the final-game win
over Georgetown. ‘‘They’ve worked hard
this season, came forth with super efforts.
We may have lost a few close games along
the way, but the team always bounced
back.”’

And bounce the Generals did. Down 13-0
against Hampden-Sydney after three
quarters, W&L bounces back for the win.
Down 21-0 to Bridgewater with 12 minutes
left to play, W&L bounces back to 21-20
before missing a two-point conversion with
27 seconds left. Down 7-0 to Georgetown,
W&L bounces for 36 unanswered points.
Down 6-0 to Centre, W&L gets the win.
Down 8-0 to Delaware Valley, W&L gets
the win. (In addition to Bridgewater, W&L’s
other losses were 28-0 to Gettysburg, 14-10
to Randolph-Macon, and 23-20 to
Maryville).

And the main bouncers? Senior and co-
captain Chris Leiser, who manned tailback
and slotback positions during the season and
gained a team-high 555 yards rushing.
Sophomore Chris Cavalline, a tailback who,

22

 

despite missing three games with an injury,
scored 10 touchdowns and rushed for 537
yards. Junior Mike Fogarty, a tight end who
led the Generals with 22 catches for 352
yards. Junior Rich Hachenburg, who earned
the starting nod at quarterback midway
through the season and responded with a
57.5% completion rate and 835 passing
yards.

And junior John McKee, a linebacker
who led the team with 69 individual tackles;
and junior Mike Pressler, a defensive
lineman who was second with 62 tackles;

 

   

Fk SR

Tailback Chris Cavalline (15), sweeping wide, pic

and junior Tom Noble, a defensive end who
tossed runners for 81 yards in losses,
intercepted two passes, recovered two
fumbles.

In soccer, it happened with wins over
Hampden-Sydney (4-0), Davidson (2-0),
Navy (1-0), Mary Washington (2-0), Eastern
Mennonite (4-1), Pratt Institute (1-0),
Gettysburg (3-0), Virginia Wesleyan (1-0),
and V.M.I. (3-1).

9-4-0. This record ties the school record
for wins in a season (W&L was 9-3 in 1967)
and gives the team its first winning record

ks up yardage against Gettysburg; leading the way
are teammates Andy Foley (75) and Jim Forte (64).

since 1973 (7-4-0). The seven shutouts set a
new single-season standard (old one was 5).
And allowing only 14 opponent goals ties the
record for fewest in a season.

Fifth-year head coach Rolf Piranian,
himself a member of the last winning W&L
soccer team, and 21 Generals earned the
success.

‘‘T’d been pulling out gray hairs waiting
for a winning record,’’ the mustachioed
Piranian joked. ‘‘This is a deserving group
because they worked harder than my other
W&L teams and accepted every challenge.

 

re oS ee ee
a eae Se

*
—

The seniors provided the leadership so
critical to success and the younger players
followed right along. And everyone rose to
the occasion so many times.”’

Top risers were: senior Bryan Williams, a
co-captain who scored four goals; freshman
Roland Simon, who paced the team with
eight goals; sophomore Brad Poorman, who
tallied six goals and a team-high six assists;
senior Kevin Carney, a goalie who
established a new career W&L save mark;
junior Ben Muskin, who also handed out six
assists; sophomore Tad Renner and freshman

 

 

 

Mark Sullivan, defensive players for the
Generals; and senior Mark Turner, a four-
year starter at forward.

In water polo, it happened when an
oversupply of freshmen (nine) were mixed
with a dearth of seniors (none) by an
energetic coach (Page Remillard).

‘“We got the winning record, indeed, but
more importantly we got some learning
experiences,’’ commented Remillard, who
completed his second season. ‘“‘This team
was essentially low on experience but made
up for it with desire. We had our low point
this season (a 4-7 record after two weekends
of play) but the guys got in the swing of
things.”’

In addition to the record, the Generals
finished second to the University of
Richmond in the Virginia State
Championships, which took place at W&L,
and second (to Richmond again) in the
Southern League Championships. At the
Eastern Intercollegiates, W&L’s final event
of the season, the Generals claimed sixth
place in the eight-team field. Richmond was
seventh.

Top players for the season were: junior
Mike Bernot, sophomore Bob Marshall, and
freshman Don Smith, Andy Gates, Keith
Kadesky, Kevin Kadesky, Rand McClain
and Tim Rock.

In cross-country, it happened as it does
most every year. Dick Miller has now been
cross-country coach for 29 seasons. During
that tenure, W&L has compiled 20 winning
records.

This fall it was 7-5-0. The wins came
over Washington College, Mary
Washington, and George Washington U. (all
in the same meet, in fact, which is now
known as “‘The Battle of Washingtons’’),
Christopher Newport, Norfolk State,
Hampden-Sydney, and West Virginia Tech.
In the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
Championship meet, W&L placed fourth in a
five-team field.

Key harriers for 1980 were freshman
Angus McBryde, who placed either first or
second for W&L in all regular-season meets
and who was top General in the ODAC event
(ninth place); sophomore Jon Kelafant,
second for W&L, tenth overall at ODAC;
and senior co-captains Charlie Warner and
Howard Herndon.

 

And now this winter .. .

The W&L basketball team is seeking
a fourth Old Dominion Athletic Conference
title and a fifth trip to the NCAA South
Atlantic Regional Tournament this season.
The team is a spirited group of ‘‘believers.’’

In 1979-80 the Generals rallied from an
early-season personnel problem to post a 14-
15 record and win the ODAC Tournament.
W&L had stood fourth in the conference
regular-season standings, but surprised
Eastern Mennonite and Hampden-Sydney to
win the tournament.

‘“We believed last season,’’ states head
coach Verne Canfield. ‘‘I don’t think I’ve
ever used a word more than I used ‘believe’
last season. Sometimes that’s all I’d say
during a time-out.’”’

The Generals must now believe in 1980-
81, which includes expanded ODAC
competition (eight teams, up from six) and
*‘the hardest first-half-of-the-season schedule
we’ ve had in my years here,’’ according to
Canfield.

Leaders for the campaign are seniors R.
J. Scaggs, Carby Hoy, and Rob Smitherman,
all returning starters. Scaggs, a forward,
averaged 6.9 points last winter; Hoy, a
guard, 22.6 points in the first five contests
before missing the rest of the season; and
Smitherman, a center, 11.1 points and seven
rebounds.

Juniors Clark New, George Spears, and
sophomore Brian Hanson are other top
players. Spears, a point guard, and Hanson,
a forward, are returning starters.

Supporting these players are juniors
Craig Dye and Ken Jaffe; sophomores Mark
Shaver, Jay Fechtel, and Frank Eppes; and
freshmen Henry Bond, John Graves, and Bill
Yates.

In swimming, coach Page Remillard is
expecting more team success this year.

‘“We’re on the road back to strong team
performances,’’ the second-year director
reports. ‘Not many coaches would be
excited after 1-10 and 2-8 marks (W&L’s
records in 1979-80 and 1978-79,
respectively), but we know we’ll turn it
around. In fact, I’m comfortable in saying
we’ll be .500 or better this winter.”’

Part of Remillard’s optimism stems from
a fine group of returning lettermen, led by

junior co-captains Mike Bernot and Herb
Gresens. Bernot earned All-America laurels
in two events at the 1980 Division III
Championships; Gresens was W&L’s top
distance freestyler last season.

The other reason for the optimism lies
with the newcomers to the program. Key
newcomers include: junior Eric Peterson,
sophomore Rob Crawford, and freshmen Tim
Rock, Jeff Gee, Kevin Becker, and Gary
Meyer.

After four years of competition, wrestling
has been dropped from the ODAC (Old
Dominion Athletic Conference) list of sports.
(League rules state that four schools must
compete in a sport; for 1980-81, only three
will sponsor wrestling.) The wrestling
Generals, three-time ODAC team
champions, will have to get along without
that competition.

To help find a new road to success,
eighth-year head coach Gary Franke looks to
seven returning lettermen. Three key
lettermen are seniors Dave Stoeffel, Les
Heart, and junior Mike McFadden.

The other returning lettermen are: senior
Charles Adler; junior Elbert Umila; and
sophomores Henry Sewell and Greg Coy.

Key newcomers for 1980-81 are seniors
Jerry Broccoli and Jim Forte; sophomore Ray
Houlihan and Barry Thompson; and
freshmen Rich Kopelman, Scott Mason,
Carlton Peebles, and Tim Valliere.

The W&L indoor-track season is short
(four meets), intense (two invitationals, one
conference meet); and important (as a warm-
up for the outdoor season).

Head coach Norris Aldridge, entering his
11th season, will count on two-thirds of his
1981 track captain combination to lead the
indoor season. Seniors Billy Morris and
Chris Daniel will pace the Generals this
winter; classmate R. J. Scaggs, who
participates in W&L basketball, will join the
duo in the spring.

Daniel and Morris are the top runners on
the squad. Other key Generals for the winter
include: junior Russ Rector in the high jump,
sprints, long jump, and hurdles; senior Jeff
Brown in the sprints; Jon Kelafant, Howard
Herndon, and Greg Branan in the two-mile
run; sophomore Gene Fellin in the pole vault;
and sophomore Alan Armitage in the high
and triple jump.

23

CHAPTER NEWS

DEL-MAR-VA._ On Saturday, June 28,
Mr. and Mrs. Dave Hackett, ’69L, hosted a
family day picnic for the chapter alumni at
their beach-front home in Lewes, Del.

CLEVELAND. The chapter held its annual
softball game against the University of
Virginia alumni at the University School in
Hunting Valley, Ohio, on August 9. The
W&L team rallied for 17 runs late in the
game and despite the thin margin of victory
for the Wahoos (20-17), a good time was had
by all.

SOUTHSIDE VIRGINIA. Chapter alumni
held a dinner meeting on Monday, August
11, at the King of the Sea Restaurant.
Following cocktails and dinner, chapter
president Vic Millner, ’54, ’60L, introduced
Robert Kane, ’17L, and Scott Hall, ’83.
Both men represented the broad range of
continued support for Washington and Lee in
the area. Alumni from Danville, Chatham

24

  
  

DEL-MAR-VA—At W&L beach picnic are (first row) Jim Slay,
and Beth Rasin, Mary Cate Slay, Rosanne and Skip Cornbrooks; (second row)
Martha Slay, Stew Barroll, ’76, Dave Hackett, ’69L, Kay Hackett, Marjo Rasin,
Dave Largey, ’50, and family, Tom Groton, ’70, and guest, Ernie Cornbrooks,
67, Sally Cornbrooks, Martha Cornbrooks, and Alex Rasin, ’65.

 
 

SOUTHSIDE—Dean of the College William J. Watt speaks at dinner meeting.
At the head table are Mrs. Vic Millner, outgoing president Vic Millner, ’54,
60L, Mrs. Bob Vaughan, and incoming president Bob Vaughan, ’79L.

 

  

  

 

65, C atherine

20-17.

 

.

and Martinsville listened to brief remarks by
Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni
secretary, and to the principal dinner
speaker, Dr. William Watt, Dean of the
College. The new president of the chapter,
Bob Vaughan, ’79L, was also introduced.

CHARLOTTE. A large number of alumni
gathered around the Southwood clubhouse
and pool on Tuesday, August 12, to

welcome the new freshmen and their parents.

President Lat Purser, ’73, spoke briefly
about the success of local admissions
recruitment by alumni. New officers for the
chapter were announced at the close of the
meeting. They are: Henry Harkey, ’71,
president; Averill Harkey, ’74, vice
president; Steve Hannon, ’71, secretary; and
Lu Dudley, ’76, treasurer. Purser will
continue to direct the Charlotte alumni
admissions program with a number of old
and new volunteers.

CLEVELAND—The chapter’ s fighting softball team (back row) Tom Goss, ’ 80,

Ed Meyers, ’61, Gary Okin, ’74, Charlie White, ’72, Tom Friedman, ’58, Steve
Giblin, ’77; (bottom row) Charlie Meyers, Sid Kaplan, ’56, unidentified, Bill
Barrington, ’60, and Dave Donahey, ’81. The team lost to the Wahoo alumni

CHARLOTTE—A poolside party to welcome new freshme
attracted a large group of alumni. Relaxation and conversation were the order
of the day as this picture attests.

 

  

  
  
 

aa
bt) NEE NO
n and their parents

  

     

5

UPPER POTOMAC. The chapter held a
dinner on August 13 at the Cumberland
(Md.) Country Club to honor current
students. Special guests for the occasion
included Edgar M. Boyd, ’42, of Baltimore,
a member of the Alumni Board of Directors;
and J. Goodloe Jackson, ’14, a founder and
loyal member of the chapter. Boyd made
brief remarks about the work of the Alumni
Association and expressed deep appreciation.
for the chapter’s continued support. Mrs.
Pauline Beamer Pickens, widow of Paul D.
Pickens, ’17, who was a devoted chapter
member for many years, presented the Croix
de Guerre and other World War I
memorabilia belonging to her husband to
W. C. (Bill) Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary, for the University’s archives.

FLORIDA WEST COAST. A reception for
the new freshmen was held August 14 at the
home of chapter president Stephen P.
Fluharty, ’73, in Tampa. The chapter was

 

 

  

Albert D. Darby, ’43.

 

TRI-STATE—At a meeting in Huntington, W. Va., are Dr. Kenneth Fink, ’68,
Edward M. Kowal Jr., ’74, ’77L, Charles F. Bagley III, ’69L, Thomas J.
Murray, ’73,’76L, Mrs. Murray, and James O. Porter, ’48L.

especially pleased to have two members of
the class of 1925, Bruce Gannaway and Ed
Rosborough. Everyone enjoyed refreshments
of barbecue and beer.

WASHINGTON. Incoming freshmen and
their parents attended a reception on August
14 at the home of Randolph Rouse, 739, in
Arlington, Va. James A. Meriwether, ’70,
the out-going president, spoke briefly and
expressed a warm welcome to all new
students. He announced the new slate of
chapter officers and called upon the new
president, Tom L. Howard, 68, for a few
words. Howard presented Meriwether with a
handsome desk pen set in recognition of his
outstanding leadership as president. A.
William Mackie, ’81, a senior and vice
president of the student body, also made
welcoming remarks. A bountiful buffet was
enjoyed by all.

UPPER POTOMAC—At chapter meeting are Donald W. Mason, ’51L, George
M. Thomas, ’83, Alumni Director Edgar M. Boyd, ’42, J. Goodloe Jackson,
14, William L. Wilson, ’38L, Mrs. Pauline Pickens, W.C. Washburn, ’40, and

 

 

 

 

&

CUMBE

George, ’81.

TRI-STATE. A gathering of alumni met
with Bill Washburn at the Guyan Country
Club in Huntington, W.Va., on August 19.
After a delicious dinner and a brief report on
Washington and Lee, Washburn showed a
series of color slides of the campus.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. The Bavarian
Inn of Shepherdstown, W.Va., was the
picturesque setting for the annual meeting of
the Cumberland Valley alumni on
Wednesday, August 20. A leisurely cocktail
hour preceded dinner and allowed for the
renewal of old acquaintances from that part
of Maryland, West Virginia and
Pennsylvania. Hamp Tisdale, ’74L, chapter
president, introduced the guests from
Lexington: Bill Hartog, admissions director;
Biff Martin, 80, new admissions counselor;
and Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni
secretary. A number of new freshmen and
their parents were honored guests. Bill
Hartog provided a report on the admissions

  
    

WASHINGTON—The home of Randolph Rouse, ’39, in Arlington was the
site of a reception for incoming freshmen and their parents from the Washington
area. Part of the large crowd is shown here around the Rouse pool.

‘ah te ae. . ,
LAND VALLEY—At cocktail hour preceding dinner a
81, Admissions Counselor Biff Martin, ’80, Mark Dickinson, ’84, and Randy

 

   

  

ns

re Bruce Pool,

program and responded to questions. New
officers were elected at the close of the
meeting. They are: Jim Crawford, ’67, ’72L,
president; Howard Kaylor, ’50, vice
president; and Roger Perry, ’52, ’54L,
secretary-treasurer.

CHICAGO. A coffee-reception for new
freshmen and their parents was held
Thursday evening, August 21, at the home of
Douglas D. Hagestad, ’65, in Homewood,
Ill. Alumni secretary, Bill Washburn, was on
hand to show color slides of the campus and
to respond to questions.

MIDDLE TENNESSEE. The chapter held
a Summer party at the home of Mr. and Mrs.
Richard Cummins, ’59, on Thursday, August
28 in Nashville Outgoing president Ben
Gambill, ’67, was presented with a silver
bowl in appreciation of his leadership over
the past three years. The following new

25

CHAPTER NEWS

"S51, ’54L, and Ben Gambill, ’67.

cena

PIEDMONT—Caught by the camera in a happy mood during the social hour
in Greensboro are John Cocklereece, ’76,’79L, Mike Miles, 68, Steve Jones,

79, and Chip Clark, ’76L.

officers were elected: Richard Cummins,
president; John Russell, ’59, vice president;
and Clay Jackson, ’76, secretary-treasurer.
James Gallivan, ’51, alumni director from
Nashville, and Milburn Noell, ’51, ’54L,
regional development associate from
Memphis, were also there to welcome the
guests.

NEW YORK. The annual chapter reception
for new freshmen was held Thursday,
August 28, in the Grill Room of the New
York Athletic Club. A panel discussion
about various aspects of college life at W&L
included W. Cope Moyers, ’81, who spoke
about the Honor System and fraternities;
Barry Dunn, ’82, who spoke about athletics;
and Charles B. Strome III, ’80, who spoke
about academics. Chapter president Paul
Perkins made the arrangements and

26

 

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—Gathered at summer party are Alumni Director James
Gallivan, ’51, Richard Cummins, ’59, Development Associate Milburn Noell,

 

 

expressed a hearty welcome to the new
students and their parents. Bill Washburn,
alumni secretary, was also on hand to
express a welcome and make brief remarks.

PIEDMONT. Alumni from the North
Carolina Piedmont met on Monday,
September 8, at the Albert Pick Motor Inn in
Greensboro. Chapter president Steve Jones,
79, and John Cocklereece, ’76, ’79L, made
arrangements for the meeting, which
consisted of a social hour and buffet dinner.
Following the dinner, James W. Whitehead,
secretary of the University, spoke about the
development program and Washington and
Lee’s outstanding art collection. Assistant
alumni secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68, made
brief remarks about the importance of active

 

 

MIDDLE TENNESSEE—Obviously enjoying themselves at the home of Dick
Cummins are Townes Duncan, ’78L, and Mrs. Duncan, and Ashley Wiltshire,
63, and Mrs. Wiltshire.

 

e buffet dinner at the Albert

Pick Motor Inn are Hank Phillips, ’77, Dick Barron, ’79, and Walton C lark, ’80.

alumni chapters and the vital role the chapter
could play in helping W&L successfully
overcome the challenges of the ’80s. Guests
at the meeting included Mrs. Whitehead; J.
Alvin Philpott, ’45, a member of the Board
of Trustees; William E. Latture, ’49, a
member of the Alumni Board of Directors:
and Walter Hannah, ’SOL, past president of
the Law School Association.

EASTERN KENTUCKY. Enthusiastic
alumni from Louisville and Eastern
Kentucky gathered for a happy hour victory
celebration at the Holiday Inn in Danville
following the football game against Centre
College on Saturday, September 27. The
Generals won the game by a score of 16-9
and the party reflected the happy occasion.
The arrangements were made by John
Bagby, ’73L, president of the chapter.

 

 

     

 

 

 

      

Ga

    

    

-

a
i : — -

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

owe
nee

  

     
     

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

g III, "71, U.S. Eng
, Mo. 64111
0! tr., "70, 506 N.

d, LL, N.Y. 11350
WwW.

 

 

B. Van de Water Jr., °41, 174 Pa

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

S. B. Hulsey, ’53

P. M. Lanier, ’50

1950

PHILIP M. Lanier, formerly executive vice president
for law and administration of Seaboard Coast Line
Industries, Inc., has been given the new title of exe-
Cutive vice president for law and public affairs. Under
the new title he will continue to serve as the corpora-
tion’s top legal officer and have responsibility for
government relations activities. Lanier’s railroad
career dates back to 1955 when he joined the Louis-
ville and Nashville Railroad as an attorney. Subse-
quent appointments include general solicitor and as-
sistant vice president for law at L&N and senior vice
president for law at Seaboard Coast Line.

F. ALDEN Murray Jr. has been elected president of
the Washington, D.C., chapter of the American
Society of Appraisers. He is a senior member of the
society, designated A.S.A., urban real estate. In
addition, he was recently elected a senior member
(C.R.A.) of the American Association of Review
Appraisers. Murray is president of Alden, Inc., in
Bethesda, Md., a real estate and mortgage brokerage,
appraisal and counseling firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THoMas K. WOLFE Jr., a
daughter, Alexandra Kennerly, on Aug. 30, 1980, in
New York.

1953

The Rev. Sam B. HUuLsey, rector of the Episcopal
Church of the Holy Trinity in Midland, Texas, is the
new bishop-elect of the northwest district of the Epis-
copal Church. Hulsey, when elected to the lifetime
post, became the first minister from Midland to
receive such an appointment. His ordination will take
place December 13 in Lubbock, Texas. Husley did
graduate work in English literature and divinity at St.
Andrews University in Scotland and received his
master of divinity degree from the Virginia Theologi-
cal Seminary. His parish services include St. John’s
Church in Corsicana, St. Michael’s and All Angels’
in Dallas, and St. Matthew’s in Pampa. Prior to his
Midland assignment he was rector of Saint David’s
Church in Nashville, Tenn. While in Midland, Hulsey
has been vice president of the Midland Association of
Churches, and a member of the Trinity School Board
and the Midland Parks and Recreation Commission.

Dr. Harry M. Lawrence has been elected president
of the Tennessee Academy of Ophthalmology. Law-
rence is chairman of the department of ophthalmology
at the University of Tennessee in Chattanooga. After
four years of study, Lawrence was ordained an Epis-
copal priest in 1979 and is currently priest-in-charge
at St. Martin’s Church in Chattanooga.

1955

GERARD W. C. FEE has been appointed executive
director of administration for the Institute of Internal
Auditors, Inc. He was formerly executive secretary
of the Ohio State Board of Optometry and executive
director of the Ohio State Pharmaceutical Associa-

    

   

O. B. Ramsay, ’55

tion. Fee is also the recipient of two Fulbright Schol-
arships to Oxford University in England. He was a
member of the Queen’s College and holds a bachelor
of letters degree in international relations.

Dr. O. BERTRAND RaMSay has been appointed acting
head of the chemistry department at Eastern Michigan
University in Ypsilanti. Prior to his joining the Eastern
Michigan faculty in 1965 he served as a research
fellow at the Georgia Institute of Technology, as
assistant professor of chemistry at the University of
the Pacific in Stockton, Calif., and as a research
fellow and instructor at Northwestern University in
Chicago. An expert on the history of chemistry,
Ramsay is active in numerous professional chemistry
organizations including the American Chemical
Society, History of Science Society, American
Association for the Advancement of Science and the
Society for the History of Alchemy and Chemistry.

1956

JOHN: A. McQUIGGAN is producing director for the
Unity Theatre Co. in New York. His group has signed
Claudette Colbert for the lead role in a revival of the
1920 hit mystery, The Bat. It played this summer
with the American Stage Festival in Milford, N.H.,
and is scheduled to begin rehearsal Feb. 16, 1981, for
a spring opening on Broadway.

1957

JOHN T. BOONE, formerly with the Boyle Midway
Division of American Home Products Co. in New
York City, has moved to Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where
he is with the STP Corp.

1959

JOEL E. KOceEN holds the position of vice president
for finance and treasurer with Gleason Works, a gear
and coupling machinery manufacturer in Rochester,
N.Y. He was formerly treasurer of Sybron Corp.,
also a Rochester firm. His previous career records are
with the public accounting firm of S. D. Leidesdorf &
Co., Anaconda Co., and Reynolds Metals Co., in
various tax and financial capacities. Kocen has been a
member of the advisory board of directors of the
Lincoln First Bank of Rochester, and Tax Executive
Institute. He is currently a member of Financial Exe-
cutives Institute and numerous other professional
organizations, and serves as treasurer of the Genesee
Region Home Care Association.

1961

Dr. JAMES A. VANN, professor of history at the
University of Michigan, has been awarded the
Matthews Underclass Teaching Award. According to
the citation, the award was ‘‘in recognition of his
excellence as a widely-knowledgeable and inspiring
professor of introductory history courses, his ability
to stimulate students to creative and analytic thinking
as well as to a mastery of content, and his inexhaust-
ible concern for and dedication to improving the
quality of undergraduate liberal education in the Col-

lege of Literature, Science, and the Arts.’’ In 1977
Dr. Vann began a term of more than a year in West
Germany as a fellow of the Max Planck Institute,
Gottingen.

JOEL E. KOcEN (See 1959.)

1962

L. DAviID CALLAWAY III is now with Citibank N.A.
in Zurich, Switzerland, in charge of the Swiss credit
process. He spent this past year in London and the
four previous years in Hong Kong as head of the
bank’s corporate business.

STEPHEN H. SuTTLE, an attorney in Abilene, Texas,
has been elected to the board of directors of the
American Judicature Society. Suttle is a past chairman
of the board of directors of the Texas Young Lawyers
Association. He is currently chairman of the Texas
Commission on Jail Standards and is a fellow of the
Texas Bar Foundation. In 1976, Suttle received the
local outstanding young lawyers award.

1963

In January 1980, GEorGE D. REED JR. was transferred
to Club House Foods Ltd. in London, Ontario, by
McCormick and Co. He is responsible for the pro-
cessing and packaging of spices for the Canadian
market.

1965

Dr. ADAM J. FIEDLER is practicing obstetrics and
gynecology in Richmond and spends many of his free
weekends sailing. He and his wife, Sally, have a 10-
year-old son and an 8-year-old daughter.

1966

HARRY G. GOODHEART III is a partner in the law firm
of Goodheart & Logan in Bradenton, Fla. He is
currently serving as a member of the board of gover-
nors of the Florida Bar, representing the 12th judicial
circuit.

PAUL E. QUANTE completed his novitiate year and
professed first vows of poverty, chastity and obedience
on Aug. 28, 1980, as a brother in the Order of St.
Augustine. The profession ceremony took place in
Ojai, Calif. He began his theological studies at the
Washington Theological Union and lives at the Au-
gustinian College in Washington, D.C. Prior to his
novitate year, Quante taught in San Diego and San
Francisco. He was previously associated with INA
Corp.

BRUCE W. RIDER is the new executive director of the
Association for the Blind of Rochester and Monroe
County, Inc., with headquarters in Rochester, N.Y.
Rider was the only legally blind person among the
eight finalists for the position. He will be the seventh
executive director since the Association was formed
in 1914. He served in the Air Force as a captain until
1971, including a year in Vietnam as an intelligence

29

officer. Rider became a sales representative with
Xerox in Charleston, S.C., in 1971. He worked with
Xerox in marketing and sales before becoming com-
munity action program manager in 1976. While on
social service leave from Xerox, Rider served with
the Association for the Blind until this past March.

WILLIAM A. SCHROEDER III has helped establish
Gieseler Simmons Corp., a new insurance brokerage
and risk management consulting firm in New Orleans.
He is vice president responsible for developing and
marketing marine and non-marine insurance pro-
grams, foreign and domestic, for energy, construction
and transportation industries.

HARDWICK STuakrT Jr. is currently with the law firm
of Boyd, Knowlton, Tate & Finlay in Columbia,
S.C. He spent the last 10 years working in public
education. He taught English and history and coached
football at Columbia High School. After serving as a
legal research assistant at the South Carolina Depart-
ment of Education he transferred to the attorney gen-
eral’s office, where he later became senior assistant
in charge of the education and public employment
sections. He has written several publications, the
most recent being South Carolina Teachers and the
Law, a handbook for school personnel, board mem-
bers, parents, and students. Stuart also served as a
consultant to the South Carolina School Board
Association.

FREDERICK E. Woop Jr. received the Ph.D. degree
in political science from Johns Hopkins University on
May 30, 1980.

1967

The First National Bank of Atlanta named S. BRYAN
BENEDICT sales manager of corporate services for the
North Fulton County banking center division. He has
been a vice president and manager of the main office
banking center since 1976. Benedict earned an
M.B.A. from Georgia State University in 1978 and
will attend the graduate school of credit and financial
management at Williams College. He is active in
numerous civic and charitable organizations. Bene-
dict and his wife, Claire, live in northwest Atlanta
with their two children.

Dr. WARD W. BricGs Jr. has co-authored a new
book, Simile and Narrative From the Georgics in the
Aeneid. He is a professor in the foreign language
department of the University of South Carolina.

JAMES C. FULWIDER is a class A member of the
Professional Golf Association and is the pro at the
Hondo Golf Club in Hondo, Texas. He and his wife,
Natalie, have two sons, Benjamin and Daniel.

1968
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. BENJAMIN H. JOHNSON III, a
daughter, Kathleen, on Dec. 15, 1979. Johnson com-
pleted a residency in general surgery at the Mayo
Clinic in June 1979 and is now chief resident in
plastic, reconstructive and maxillofacial surgery at
Emory University in Atlanta.

30

  

5,

S. B. Benedict, 67

CHARLES C. Lewis has been promoted to associate
professor of law at Campbell University School of
Law in Buies Creek, N.C.

1969

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. WILLIAM T. FLEMING Jr., a
daughter, Margaret Thayer, on Oct. 27, 1979, in
Tulsa. Fleming is a State Department foreign service
officer who was assigned with the Department of
Commerce task force to establish the new Foreign
Commercial Service. In August 1980, he was assigned
as commercial officer to the U.S. Embassy in Seoul,
Korea.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Peter Nowicx Jr., a daugh-
ter, Dana Lynn, on March 30, 1980, in St. James,
N.Y. Nowick is vice president of Crafts, Smith and
Nowick, Inc., a Smithtown, N.Y., insurance agency.

WILLIAM J. BROwn, formerly with the Austin Na-
tional Bank in Austin, Texas, is now back in his
hometown of Midland, and is vice president and trust
investment officer with First National Bank.

Ear T. EDWARDS JR. has taken a job in the purchas-
ing department of Blue Bird East in Buena Vista, a
division of the Blue Bird Body Co., manufacturers of
school buses. For the past 11 years, he had been a
teacher and coach in the Rockbridge County school
system. Edwards also served recently as president of
the Rockbridge Education Association.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. Rosert P. Trout, a second
son, Philip Berkeley, on Aug. 7, 1980, in Rockville,
Md. Trout is an attorney in Washington, D.C.

Dr. FRANK E. FIsHER is currently in the Graduate
School of Engineering and Applied Science at the
University of Virginia and is pursuing a Ph.D. degree
in biomedical engineering. He is a board-certified
internist, and completed his fellowship in endocrino-
logy at the University of California, San Francisco, in
December 1979. Fisher is interested in applying en-
gineering techniques to clinical problems in diabetes
and its complications.

MILForD B. HATCHER Jr. is a partner in the Macon,
Ga., law firm of Anderson, Walker and Reichart. He
earned his J.D. degree at the University of Georgia
and an LL.M. in taxation at New York University.
Hatcher is married to the former Aileen Ponder, who
is vice president for financial affairs and treasurer of
Wesleyan College in Macon.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. THomas F. BAKER IV, ason,
Thomas Frazier V, on June 22, 1980, in Memphis.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Henry A. HarRKEY, a son,
Jonathon Henry, on July 14, 1980. Harkey practices
law in Charlotte, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Cuar.es W. Ross, a son,

David Donahue, on July 9, 1980, in Warrenton, Va.

Dr. Barry W. MITCHELL is currently a third-year
surgical resident at Buffalo General Hospital in
Buffalo, N.Y. He plans to specialize in plastic and
reconstructive surgery.

CHARLES C. Lewis (See 1968.)

1972
MARRIAGE: Robert J. HUMPHREYS and Ann Bonner
on June 21, 1980, in Fort Wayne, Ind. They live in
Virginia Beach. Humphreys is an assistant common-
wealth’s attorney in Norfolk.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. JoHN C. O’NEAL, a daughter,
Katherine Coffee, on Aug. 2, 1980. O’Neal received
a Ph.D. in French from U.C.L.A. in June and accepted
a post as assistant professor at Saint Mary’s College
in Indiana. They live in South Bend.

ROBERT G. BRookBY, a native of Bartlesville, Okla.,
has been elected vice president of Wachovia Bank
and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N.C. Brookby re-
joined Wachovia in 1978 after receiving his M.B.A.
degree from Stanford Business School in Palo Alto,
Calif. He worked in Wachovia’s loan administration
division from 1972 to 1975. He was named national
calling officer and promoted to banking officer in
1978. In 1979 he was promoted to assistant vice
president in the national banking department and is
currently national territory manager.

1973

MARRIAGE: Timotny FairFax HALEY and Anne
Mary McDonnell on Aug. 23, 1980, in the St. John
Neumann Church in St. Charles, Ill. Classmates in
the wedding were Marshall P. Washburn, Paul K.
McClure, Hatton C. V. Smith, and William M.
Nickel; and Ducan S. Klinedinst, ’74. Others in at-
tendance were Craig Jones, ’73, Lee Thalheimer,
"73, David D. Stone, ’72, and W. C. Washburn, 40.
The couple lives in Chicago where Haley is an attor-
ney.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD E. Gray III, a
daughter, Britten Samuelson, on July 14, 1980. Gray
recently became executive assistant to the attorney
general of Texas.

STEPHEN C. APOLITO, a certified public accountant,
is associated with the New York firm of Holtz Ruben-
stein and Co. and serves as an adjunct professor of
accounting at C. W. Post College. He lives on Long
Island with his wife, Katherine, and infant daughter,
Marisa.

Marc D. Lipman has opened his own office for the
practice of general and real estate law in Alexandria,
Va. Lipman was previously associated with another
area law firm.

DALE M. Ruopgs has joined the Citizens and South-
ern National Bank of South Carolina in Columbia as a

 

 

Lo
fo

 

W. J. Cople III, ’77

resident C.P.A. He also serves as adjunct of the
120th/U.S. Army Reserve Command, The Palmetto
Guards.

1974

MARRIAGE: W. PERRIN NICOLSON IV and Mary
Amoret Brown on March 8, 1980, in Columbus, Ga.
Dr. W. Perrin Nicolson III, ’44, served as best man.
Also attending were classmates William F. Beacham,
Charles McCardell, W. David Piner, William H.
Sanders, and Ed Wiley; and Lee R. Redmond, ’45.
Nicolson is associated with the Columbus law firm of
Thompson and Redmond.

KENNETH HurbD is teaching science at Desert Sun
School, a boarding school near Palm Springs, Calif.
He lives in Idlewild with his wife, Camille. Hurd had
been a reporter for the Lynchburg, Va., News where
one of his final assignments was to cover the Republi-
can National Convention in Detroit.

In June 1980, James J. KELLEY II was named a
partner in the Washington law firm of Morgan, Lewis
and Bockius. He specializes in labor law. Kelley
lives in Alexandria, Va.

1975

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM W. TERRY III and Leslie Ann
Marfleet on April 12, 1980, in Roanoke, Va. W&L
men in the wedding party were classmates Eric D.
White, Duncan B. DeGraff, and Marc V. Couy; John
E. Lane III, Clark Samuelson, Dr. Craig Hankins, all
class of ’74, and Edward Kowal, ’74, 77L; William
W. Terry, ’51L; Dr. Robert Spratt, 60; C. Thomas
Burton Jr., ’66, and Robert W. Goodlatte, ’77L.
Also attending were Thomas J. Starke IV, ’76, Roy
Jones, ’76, and Richard Spink, ’77. The couple lives
in Roanoke where Terry is with the law firm of
Wetherington, Flippen, Melchionna & Burton.

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. ROBERT A. KEATLEY, a son,
Robert Franklin II, on May 16, 1980. The family
lives in Kansas City, Mo., where Keatley is vice
president of the Kingston Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANKLIN P. SLAVIN JR., a
son, Franklin Peter III, on Jan. 14, 1980, in Wythe-
ville, Va.

JAMES T. BECKER received the Ph.D. degree in psy-
chology from Johns Hopkins University on May 30,
1980.

1976
MARRIAGE: JEFFREY ALAN BaAuM and Linda Lo
Cascio on July 14, 1979, in Manhasset, N.Y. Baum
graduated from medical school in May 1980 and is
now a surgical resident in Pittsburgh.

MARRIAGE: Robert M. BENDER and Liane Paula
Colbath on June 28, 1980, in Darien, Conn. They
live in Tulsa where Bender is a first-year student at
the Oklahoma College of Osteopathic Medicine and
Surgery.

 

 

SORRY, NO MORE WEDDING PICTURES
Because of space limitations and frequent difficulties
involved in reproducing photographs containing many
people, the editors of the Alumni Magazine are obliged
to discontinue the use of wedding pictures. Please
accept our regrets.

 

 

MARRIAGE: Davip S. WALKER and Dale Hanson on
May 31, 1980, in Bronxville, N.Y. Classmates John
Shettle and David Kennedy were ushers and Bob
Snyder was a guest. Walker is employed in sales and
advertising for Audio-Video International in N.Y.
They live in Scarsdale.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LEE B. DANIEL, a daughter,
Ashley Nicole, on June 29, 1980, in Richmond.
Daniel is a senior cost assistant for E. I. duPont.

DaviD R. BRAUN has been appointed production
manager in the life, health and financial services
department of The Travelers Insurance Companies in
Milwaukee.

SPENCER W. Mor TEN III is director of sales and mar-
keting for the new Bassett Mirror Co., Inc., plant that
opened in January 1980 at San Bernardino, Calif. He
is building a home in Newport.

WILLIAM A. WALLACE has been promoted to super-
vising senior in the Chicago office of Peat, Marwick,
Mitchell and Co. He transferred to Chicago in Sep-
tember 1979 and specializes in municipal pension
funds.

1977

MARRIAGE: JaMeEs G. Houston and Barbara Ann
Crystal on Dec. 29, 1979, in Bay Village, Ohio.
Classmates attending were Gerald Maatman, May-
nard McCorkle, Robert Carpentier and Jeffrey Barr.
They live in Ft. Lauderdale where Houston is a com-
mercial lending officer for the First National Bank of
Hollywood, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL J. WEBSTER, a
daughter, Emily Boatwright, on June 10, 1980.
Webster practices law in Norfolk, Va., with the firm
of Williams, Worrell, Kelly & Greer.

MICHAEL D. ARMSTRONG plans to enter business
school in January as an M.B.A. candidate. He pres-
ently works with Austin Kelley Advertising in At-
lanta.

WILLIAM J. Copce III graduated with honors in June
from St. John’s University School of Law. He served
as executive editor of the Law Review and was a St.
Thomas More Scholar. Cople is now a captain in the
Army JAG Corps stationed at the Pentagon as a staff
attorney for the office of the general counsel of the
Department of Defense.

Ist Lt. THOMAS C. GREENWOOD is assigned to the
Marine Corps battalion landing team based at Kaneohe
Bay, Hawaii. He recently returned from a deployment
to the western Pacific where he participated in training
exercises in the Philippines and Japan and visited
several Far Eastern ports.

RICHARD H. McCuLLOcH has been appointed a
media buyer for Liller Neal Weltin, Inc., an Atlanta
advertising agency and public relations counseling
firm.

DaviD R. MESCHUTT became a research assistant at
the Frick Art Reference Library of New York in
October 1980. He had been working as assistant to
Washington and Lee’s curator with responsibilities
for cataloging the University’s art collection. Mes-
chutt will have an article, ‘‘Gilbert Stuart’s Portraits
of Thomas Jefferson,’’ published in the January 1981
issue of the American Art Journal.

KENNETH S. VOELKER is now a staff consultant with
Arthur Andersen and Co. in Atlanta, Ga. During the
1979-80 academic year he served as assistant to the
director of the M.B.A. program at the University of
Alabama in Tuscaloosa while pursuing an M.B.A. in
finance. The Alabama team on which he participated
finished first in the Southeastern Intercollegiate
M.B.A. competition held at the University of Tenn-
essee in May. His wife, Lynne, received a B.S.
degree at Alabama and now works in industrial rela-
tions for the southeast division of Vulcan Materials.

1978

STUART L. CRAIG Jr. has been promoted to general
manager of Bruce Coleman, Inc., a photographic
agency in New York City. The firm markets pho-
tographs to book and magazine publishers and adver-
tising agencies.

R. PLATER C. ROBINSON is a European history teacher
at St. James School in Maryland. In June, he appeared
on WAMU’s Fred Fishe Talk Show in Washington
with Axel von dem Bussche, whom he met through a
student. Von dem Bussche was a member of the
unsuccessful German officers’ plot to assassinate
Hitler during World War II.

WILLIAM G. TAYLOR received an M.B.A. from the
Babcock Graduate School of Management at Wake
Forest University in May 1980. He is now employed
with the national division of First Union National
Bank in Charlotte, N.C.

1979
MARRIAGE: MIcHAEL A. BURNETTE and Nola
Thelma Covington on April 19, 1980, in Columbia,
S.C. Attending the wedding were classmates Tuck
Laffitte, Dewey Stinson, Pete Williams, and Scott
Hood; Chuck Sipple, ’78; Norris Laffitte, ’80; Tommy
Turner, ’80; Preston Covington, ’82; Jack Wells,
82; and Usher Winslett, ’82. They live in Columbia
where Burnette is employed with Burnette’s Cleaners.

MARRIAGE: ROBERT L. WHITENER III and Julie
Ravelle Cain on May 24, 1980, in Martinsville, Va.
They live in Giessen, West Germany, where Whitener
is an artillery officer with the Army.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LLoyD E. SPEAR, a son,
Chester Adolph, on Sept. 9, 1980, in Vanceburg,
Ky. He joins a one-year-old brother, John Maxwell.
Spear practices law in Vanceburg.

BRIAN W. BROOKE is now with St. Mary’s Seminary
and University in Baltimore as their director of annual

31

  

    

   

c rE: Davin F. BrANDLEY JR. and Stephanie

    

          

on Sept. 13, 1980, in New York. kansas and Unior
the New York law firmof World War II he

 

 

 

es ome ee ee

 

ne

re

IETS’ CS

.

WINTER SPORTS SCHEDULE

 

Basketball

Nov. 28-29-W&L Tip-Off Tournament
Dec. 3—Hampden-Sydney

Dec. 5—Lehman

Dec. 8—Randolph-Macon

Dec. 10—Alderson Broaddus

Jan. 2-3—Washington & Jefferson Tourn.

Jan. 6—Rhode Island

Jan. 9-10—W&L Invitational Tourn.
Jan. 13—Hampden-Sydney

Jan. 15—Emory & Henry

Jan. 17—Bridgewater

Jan. | 20—Roanoke

Jan. | 22—Lynchburg

Jan. | 28—Eastern Mennonite

Jan. 31—Maryville

Feb. 4—Emory & Henry

Feb. 7—Lynchburg

Feb. 10—Bridgewater

Feb. 12—Mary Washington

Feb. 14—Roanoke

Feb. —17—Eastern Mennonite

Feb. 20—Maryville

Feb. 26-28—O.D.A.C. Champ. Tourn.
Mar. 7—NCAA Regionals

 

Wrestling

Nov. 22—Madison Takedown Tourn.

Dec. 3—Longwood

Dec. 6—W&L Invitational
Dec. 10—V.M.I.

Jan. 10—Duke & Campbell
Jan. 14—Glassboro State
Jan. 17—Citadel Invitational
Jan. | 21—Lynchburg

HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away
T.B.A.

Away
Away
HOME
HOME
HOME
HOME
Away
HOME

Jan. 22—Richmond

Jan. 24—W&L Invitational

Jan. | 27—Hampden-Sydney

Jan. | 31—Longwood

Feb. 7—Pembroke Invitational
Feb. 11—James Madison

Feb. 13—Davidson

Feb. 14—Catawba

Feb. 20-21—NCAA Regional Tourn.

 

Indoor Track

Jan. 24—Lynchburg

Feb. 7—V.M.I. Relays

Feb. 21—Lynchburg Relays

Feb. 28—O.D.A.C. Championships

 

Swimming
Nov. 19—U. of Richmond, V.M.I.
Nov. 22-23-W&L Invitational
Dec. 5-7—Va. State Championships
Jan. 9—George Washington
Jan. 16—James Madison
Jan. 17—Towson
Jan. | 24—Shepherd
Jan. 31—William & Mary
Feb. 7—Davidson, Furman
Feb. 14—V.C.U., V.M.I.
Feb. 20-22—UNC- Wilmington Invit.
Feb. 27-
Mar. 1—Senior Championships
Mar. 7-8—Johns Hopkins Invit.

Mar. 19-21-NCAA Division III Champ.

EEE SETS SEE TT a TE aa HCI ARTS

 

HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
T.B.A.

Away
Away
Away
Away

HOME
HOME
Away
HOME
Away
Away
HOME
Away
Away
Away
Away

Away
Away
Away

The Alumni Magazine of
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

(USPS 667-040)
Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

CL

 

 

 

 

 

 

PLAN NOW TO ATTEND W&L’S ANNUAL SPRING

Class Reunions

HONORING THE ACADEMIC AND LAW CLASSES OF 1931,
1936, 1941, 1946, 1951, 1956, 1961, 1966, 1971, 1976, AND
THE FIVE STAR GENERALS (All classes before 1931)

MAY 7, 8, and 9

Second Class Postage Paid
At Lexington, Virginia 24450
And Additional Mailing Offices

BF Pia

x” sleet. “ne

1 ee tet me A eta ew

