a

oy os ie :

:
u

 

 

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 50, Number 5, July 1975

William C. Washburn, °40.............0000000ccccccccoooccceeeeee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68.0000... Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter... eee Editorial Assistant
W. Patrick Hinely, ’73

Sally Mann oo..ccccecetecctece settee Photographers

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Commencement 1975 ooo. cccccccccccccceceeeeceeeeee, ]
Alumni Sons and Daughters 2200.00.00... 5
Two Professors Retire ......00.....00ccccccccccceeeeeseeeeeeees 6
Student President’s Remarks ............000000.. 8
Clarke Named Trustee ......00000000ccccceeeceee, 10
W&L News Briefs o.oo... cccccceceeetteeeeereeee 1]
Mrs. Ford Chooses W&L Butterflies .................... 13
W&L Man at White House Prom ....................... 15
An Exciting Lacrosse Finish ......0.00.0000000000000000.... 17
Alumni Fund Report ....00.0.00000000cccccecccceeeeee 20
Alumni ‘Self-Study’ o.0..0.00000cccccccccccctceeteeee ne
Bass Named Alumni Aide ...........00000.....ceccceee 23
Class Notes o........ccccccceceecccccceececcecevtececeeettseeeecvesseeeees 25
In Memoriam oooon....iiiccccccccccececececcceeeccevseeeeee, 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

C. Royce Houcu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
President

VERNON W, HOoLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

‘THEODORE M. Kerr, 757, Midland, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WAsHBuRN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

‘THOMAS B. BRANCH, III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
Epwin J. Fortz, 40, Gladwyne, Pa.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Ho ..is, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. MAuzy, JR., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
Jerry G. Soutu, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, 45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ‘ToucuTon, 60, Tampa, Fla.
ROBERT M. White, II, 38, Mexico, Mo.

q

ON ‘THE COVER: Washington and Lee’s academ-
ic procession emerges from Washington Hall and
threads its way along the Colonnade toward the
commencement stands nestled under General Lee’s
trees on the Front Campus. The University con-
ferred degrees upon 361 men and women to end its
225th academic year. Commencement stories are
found on Pages 1-9. The photograph was made
from the third floor of Washington Hall by Sally
Mann.

 

 

a
ee, : 4

2
~

 

“
~ ee

>
~f

 

 

 

egrees are awarded to 361 students;
onorary doctorates to three alumni

 

Graduating students file across the historic Front Campus to commencement exercises.

Washington and Lee conferred undergraduate and law
degrees on 361 men and women under General Lee’s trees
on the historic Front Campus this spring, marking the
close of the University’s 225th academic year.

Three honorary doctorates were conferred as well—on
A. Christian Compton, the newest member of Virginia’s
Supreme Court of Appeals; Charles R. McDowell Jr.,
the well-known political reporter and columnist; and
Dr. Victor F. Marshall, the distinguished urologist and medi-
cal educator at Cornell Medical School.

All three are alumni of the University.

The weather was far from good—but it was better
by a long shot than it was last year, when graduation
exercises had to be moved indoors, the first time that had
happened in decades. Rain threatened again this year,
but in the end it didn’t come, and the ceremony went
off perfectly on the lawn.

For the first time in history, Washington and Lee now
has women graduates—six of them, who earned Juris Doctor
degrees from the School of Law. The University began
admitting women to the law school three years ago, recogniz-
ing the uniquely professional orientation of the law

July 1975

 

curriculum. The undergraduate schools, of course, remain
all-male.

Commencement-week activities began with the tradi-
tional baccalaureate sermon, delivered by Dr. David W.
Sprunt, University chaplain and professor of religion,
who took as his text the Psalm: “This is the day which
the Lord hath made; let us rejoice and be glad in it.”

Where, Dean Sprunt asked, does anybody find joy
these days? ‘“‘Can anyone but a fool deny the shaking of
the foundations? There is no need,” Dean Sprunt said, “to
document what we are all aware of: man’s befouling of his
ancient home; his depletion of its natural resources;
his overpopulating it with increasing legions of desperately
hungry people; his nuclear overkill capacity for making it—
overnight—a home for no man.”

But God made this world not just for man to be troubled
by. “Recall the final crescendo of the Creation narrative:
‘God saw everything that He had made and, behold, it was
very good.’ Very good. Surely our response can be nothing
less than to accept, affirm and enjoy that ‘very good’.”

The key, Dean Sprunt declared, is this: “Delight is
the basis of right use’—glory in God and all He created,

Commencement 1975

 

 

Sara Green receives Juris Doctor degree from President Huntley.

used as He meant it to be used. “Have you ever considered
that it might be a sin not to enjoy the ‘good things of
life’?”’

(In that context, Dean Sprunt revealed one of his own
private wishes—that ‘those earnest, well-meaning govern-
ment engineers who so horrendously ‘channelize’ nature’s
free-flowing, meandering rivers” would get out of the
office for a few days, “spend some time away from their
drawing boards meditating—yes, meditating!—on a river
bank.” He told the graduating seniors and their families:
“I think of this often as I contemplate how, in my view
at least, their so-efficient bulldozers have violated the
essential nature of the river beside which I happen to
live....’)

In commissioning ceremonies on commencement
morning in Lee Chapel, retired Brig. Gen. John M. Dunn,
father of a graduating cadet, said the Army appears to
have been “almost destroyed” by the Vietnam War—
not by the enemy, he said, but by the nature of the conflict
itself. He told cadets and their families that the direction
the nation’s armed forces will take in the future depends
not so much on generals and colonels as on the middle-
level leadership—the Army’s new second lieutenants, for
example, commissioned that day.

Gen. Dunn, now the acting executive director of the
White House Council on International Economic Policy,
observed that despite the end of the Vietnam conflict, very
real dangers remain throughout the world. The Middle East
continues to be a “‘tinder-box,” he said, and America
is ‘‘in trouble” in Asia all the way to the Malaysian
peninsula. The national interest demands more than ever a

2

 

 

3 A : 3 od

*

Justice A. Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L—Doctor of Laws.

thoughtful, professional, highly trained and educated mili-
tary, he said.

By tradition, the principal speaker at graduation
itself was Washington and Lee’s president, Robert E. R.
Huntley. In his remarks, he explored another side of ‘‘that
most abysmal of all human conditions, the condition of
hopelessness, despair. If I were a theologian, which clearly
I am not,” he said, “I believe I would be inclined to
describe despair as the ultimate sin, because it connotes a
severance and a disavowal of both the human and the
divine.”

“Despair comes,” President Huntley observed, “‘when
a false conviction of self-sufficiency is followed by self-
doubt. And the educated intellect may be the most likely
victim of this kind of despair .... Even great minds have
sometimes concluded, it would seem, that because the life
of the intellect is imperfect it should be discarded in
favor of something else—in favor of emotional frenzy or
blind withdrawal.

“But this is nonsense, at least to me; and not only is it
nonsense, it is impossible. Man was made to think as well
as to feel; man was made for intellectual achievement as
well as for faith. He can discard no one of these elements
of his creation, and his efforts to do so quite literally de-
humanize him. The suggestion that the intellect should be
rejected to avoid despair is reminiscent of the joke about
the drunkard who tried to give up sleep because he always
awakened with a hangover.”

For his own part, Huntley said, “the only advice I
have to give as a counsel against despair is almost the
exact antithesis” of Polonius’ advice to Laertes in Hamlet,

WeL

—

 

 

 

, Ee ee ee eer Si

lm

ce

 

a
a

 

s MN Pall, ra ~ .

Charles Rice McDowell Jr., ’48—Doctor of Letters.

the admonition—delivered, Huntley observed, ‘in splendidly
trite language’”’—to be close-mouthed; to keep proven friends
and to shy away from untested relationships; to steer clear
of arguments, but always to win if one is unavoidable; to
“take all one can from listening to others but to offer

as little as possible in return’; to dress as extravagantly as
possible; and, ‘because human dependency is risky,”

never to borrow or lend. ‘And then those lines which
have rung down the centuries, drilled into our heads by

a thousand school-teachers, and still qualifying as among
the most nonsensical, or perhaps most pernicious, bits of
‘commencement advice’ ever offered: “This above all—to thine
own self be true’.”

On the contrary, Huntley declared. “Be open and
giving in your relationships with others. It is really no
worse to be thought a fool than to be one.

‘Trust others as fully as you can, and be worthy of
their trust in return without regard to how worthy you
perceive them to be. The hurt that comes when others
disappoint you cannot compare with the self-doubt which
comes from isolation and suspicion.

‘As to dress and manners, do not make the primary
touchstone the proclamation of your own distinction, but
rather the sensibilities of others, that they may be easy
in your presence.

‘Do not hesitate to lend or to borrow, to give or to
seek help from others out of some mistaken belief that
everyone must row his own boat alone.

“Above all, do not fret about being true to yourself,
for that way lies self-centeredness and despair. Rather take joy
in the gifts of mind and heart with which you are en-

July 1975

 

ae ee MN) FA

Victor Fray Marshall, ’34—Doctor of Science.

 

dowed, be true to others, and look beyond yourself for
the love and the faith you will*need to sustain you.”

Also speaking at graduation was Benjamin Lee Bailey,
president of the student body last year and a graduating
senior. Bailey spoke of changes at the University in the
recent past and in the future—among them coeducation,
which, he said, the fears of some to the contrary, would
hardly devastate Washington and Lee but which is not, in
his view, justifiable now. Bailey also spoke strongly in
support of the Honor System, against taking it too casually or
unthinkingly. It is no great burden, he declared, to demand
that a student “do his own work, tell the truth, and
respect the property of others.’ The ideals reflected in
the Honor System, he said, and the atmosphere it fosters are
“the key to Washington and Lee’s long future.’ The full
text of Bailey’s address is printed elsewhere in this
magazine.

Special honors announced by President Huntley at
commencement included the designation of Robert H.
Crawford of Dallas as valedictorian. Crawford had a perfect
4.0 grade-point average throughout his four years at the
University. The Algernon Sydney Sullivan medallion,
awarded by the faculty to the student who “excels in high
ideals of living, in spiritual qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others,” was presented to William

_H. Sturges of Charlotte, N.C. Sturges was editor-in-chief of

the Calyx, head of the University Federation (the umbrella
committee for community-service programs), head of the Big
Brothers program, and founder of a local consumer-in-
formation agency.

Justice Compton received his B.A. from Washington

 

§ i oP — eo cae

Pe % ba -
$ Se nl ; < ba i ee oh

 

and Lee in 1950 and his law degree three years later.

After Navy service, he practiced law in Richmond until
being named judge of that city’s Law and Equity Court
(now Circuit Court) in 1966. He was named to the state
Supreme Court last September by Gov. Mills Godwin and
his nomination was confirmed by the General Assembly in
January.

Compton was national president of the University’s
Alumni Association in 1972-73, having long been active in
alumni affairs. As a student at the University, he was
captain of the basketball team and was elected to member-
ship in Omicron Delta Kappa.

McDowell is a 1948 graduate of W&L. He joined the
staff of the Richmond Times-Dispatch in 1949 after earning
the M.S. degree from Columbia University’s graduate
journalism school.

He became a regular columnist for the Times-Dispatch in
1955 and Washington correspondent for the paper in
1965. He has covered each national political convention
since 1952.

McDowell grew up on the W&L campus as the son of
the late Prof. Charles R. McDowell Sr., who taught in
the University’s School of Law from 1926 until his death
in 1968, and Mrs. Catherine Feland McDowell (“the indis-
pensable ‘Mrs. Mac’”’), who has been secretary to five
deans in the law school. (President Huntley, who studied
law under Prof. McDowell and was one of the deans with
whom Mrs. McDowell worked, once observed that Charley
McDowell’s “‘special sense of perspective” is ‘‘a quality he in-
herited in large measure from his mother and father.”’)

McDowell worked on many student publications at
Washington and Lee and was elected president of the
Publications Board. He was a class representative on the

4

3 Le hag ; : Sa

Es 3 Q 2 . see he
£ : Z eee. : 4 af . i
wa . = P ‘

 

  

< eee . tek <3 ae ee

Commencement view from the Lee-Jackson House. (R. E. Lee Episcopal Church is in the background.)

student Executive Committee, class secretary, and, later,
class historian. He was elected to membership in Omicron
Delta Kappa as a student and to Phi Beta Kappa as an
alumnus in 1961.

McDowell’s wife, Ann, and Justice Compton were
schoolmates in Ashland, Va., and McDowell and Compton
played basketball at W&L together. In a Times-Dispatch
column last October, McDowell recalled that Compton
“rode in the second-team car on basketball trips before he
was promoted to the first-team car and thence inexorably
to the Supreme Court.”

Dr. Marshall attended Washington and Lee from 1930
to 1932, then entered the University of Virginia and
received his M.D. degree in 1937. He has been associated with
The New York Hospital (Cornell Medical Center) since
then, first as an intern in general surgery, eventually
joining the urology division and becoming surgeon-in-
charge in 1948.

He has taught at Cornell since 1938, and became
clinical professor of urology in 1957. In 1970 he was
elected the first occupant of Cornell’s James J. Holt Chair
of Urology in Surgery.

Dr. Marshall is a member of more than a dozen medical
societies in the United States and in six other countries.

He is a past president of the New York Cancer Society and
is a Fellow of the American College of Surgeons and the
New York Academy of Medicine.

Dr. Marshall, the citation at commencement observed,
“has made contributions of incalculable value to that
trinity which is the genius of American academic medicine—
the alleviation of suffering in the individual patient, the
training of skilled new physicians, and the increase and
dissemination of medical knowledge.”

WeL

 

 

acta,
rr -

TS

 

   

t $ a Hy P : ] 7 Riek

| Approximately 30 sons of alumni—and three alumni daughters and one wife—received degrees from Washington and Lee University this
spring. Pictured above (sons and daughters are standing behind their fathers), from left: David Lewis, 46, and Samuel R. Lewis; Carter

     
    
   

Glass III, ‘42, and Scott Glass; James A. Cranford Jr., 48, and James Cranford III; M. Williamson Watts, 48, and Caroline Watts; Charles
P. Didier, ‘42, and Angelica Didier; G. Murray Smith Jr., 39, and Amber Lee Smith; Henry C. Clark, 47, and Henry C. Clark III; Fred
A. Feddeman, ‘40, and Edward G. Feddeman; John A. Dempsher, “42, and David P. Dempsher; Gordon A. Fox, ’48, and James G. Fox;
William T. Brotherton Jr., ’47, and William T. W. Brotherton; C. Edward Calvert, 44, and Matthew J. Calvert.

~ \ f ‘ < »
Other sons of alumni who were graduated this spring, pictured with their fathers, from left: William W. Terry, ’51, and William W.
Terry III; B. C. Tolley Jr., 48, and B. Cary Tolley III; Robert W. Hilton, ’38, and David N. Hilton; Earl M. Vickers, ’49, and Montgomery
Vickers; W. Herbert Hunt, 51, and Douglas H. Hunt; Clark B. Winter, °37, and Duncan F. Winter; and, at right, Robert E. Huntley,
whose father, Benamin F. Huntley III, ’46, was not present for the photograph.

 

——
_

=

       

a ’ 4 ee et ei eet a ee Pe AS ae : Bee “- os : We ‘gee ee ee ee ee ’ " SS
Also receiving degrees this year were these alumni sons: David K. Higgins (his father, Stanley B. Higgins, 37, is deceased); Leroy M. Lee
Jr., 733, and David R. Lee; William H. Robinson, °34, and William T. Robinson; Thomas R. Watkins, ’47, and Thomas Watkins Jr.;
Joseph B. Martin, 49, and Channing J. Martin; William G. Tinsley, 39, and Thomas W. Tinsley; E. Austin McCaskill, ’42, and Roddy J.
McCaskill; Carl P. Flanagan Jr., 56, and Carl P. Flanagan III; Charles J. Devine Jr., 43, and Paul E. Devine; Phillip A. Sellers, ’43, and
Phillip L. Sellers; J. Alvin Philpott, 45, and Benjamin C. Philpott; Robert E. Clapp Jr., ’30, and John R. Clapp; William M. Hiden,
j whose father, Samuel E. Hiden, ’41, was not present for the photograph; and Ellis C. Coleman, whose father, Ellis O. Coleman, ’30, is
deceased. Karol Ulrich, wife of Joseph E. Ulrich, ’59, ’61L, also was absent when the photos were taken.
July 1975 5

 

 

7

- oa

_
OO

 

 

 

1, Virginia: The New

we

 

 

 

 

 

——

 

 

 

Drs. Allen W. Moger (left) and Esmarch S. Gilreath were designated professors emeritus during commencement exercises.

its interest and operation—devoting to
it, in short, the same remarkable
vigor and enthusiasm he brought to his
classes at Washington and Lee.

Dr. Gilreath came north to Wash-
ington and Lee from North Carolina,
where he has studied (earning all
three degrees from Chapel Hill), work-
ed (as a research chemist with Ameri-
can Enka Corp.) and taught (U.N.C.
while completing his doctorate). In
his tenure at Washington and
Lee, the chemistry faculty grew in
size from four to seven full-time
teachers, and student enrollment in-
creased substantially as well. The number
of courses increased by 50 per cent.
Facilities were improved dramatically

July 1975

as well: Dr. Gilreath assisted with
planning for the remodeling of Howe
Hall, completed in 1962.

The son of a physician, he was
especially interested in the University’s
pre-medical curriculum, and during most
of his time at Washington and Lee
was the advisor to pre-med students.
According to his colleagues on the
faculty, his 15 years as department
head were characterized by utter
fairness and an “insistence that every
member of the chemistry faculty
participate in decisions of importance
to the department.” He was always
available, one fellow teacher commented,
to help colleagues in whatever ways he
could—from chemical and educational

problems to questions regarding house-
hunting and gardening. And if you were
a science-fiction buff, you couldn’t find
anybody you’d rather know, for Esmarch
Gilreath is one of the most intense
students in the field.

‘‘He has been an effective teacher—
particularly in designing and develop-
ing experiments for student use,” ob-
served Dr. William J. Watt, a fellow
chemistry professor (and Dean of the
College). ‘““The qualitative-analysis
scheme which grew out of his disserta-
tion is one of the most successful.

The clarity of his writing and of his
lectures has helped many a stumbling
student to grasp the fundamentals of
analytical chemistry.”

by Benjamin L. Bailey, ’75

Reflections on change: Coeducation
of the Honor System

and the worth

Colleges are—or, if they are not,
they should be—in the business of
changing things. The basic in-
gredient in effecting such change,
of course, is the college student.

Four years ago Washington and
Lee embraced a ragged collection
of naive but energetic misfits, and
the University had the courage to
call them the freshman class. ‘Today
that group stands before you black-
robed and calls itself the Class of
1975:

Three years ago the law school
took under its wing a smaller band
of equally ragged, not-so-naive but
every-bit-as-energetic misfits, and
today they sit here before me in
their pretty purple sashes and call
themselves the Law Class of 1975.

The metamorphosis is complete—
and it is quite astonishing. The per-
sonal changes that we have all un-
dergone are far too numerous for
me to catalogue. We have studied
together; we have gone down the
road together; we have battled in in-
tramurals; we have argued in the
Co-op. We have consumed a few
too many beers, and spent probably
more nights on strange floors and
strange couches than we care to
remember. We have rejoiced at our
classmates’ weddings and we have
cried at the funerals of the two men
who will be receiving their degrees
posthumously today.

If we have taken advantage of all
that Washington and Lee has to
offer, we have not only aged three
or four years since coming to Lex-

Benjamin L. Bailey, of Parkersburg,
W.Va., was president of the student
body this year, and in that capacity de-
livered these remarks at commencement.

8

¥ Se

ington but we have also learned
and grown and matured as much as
we ever have or ever will during any
similar period in our lives.

In that same three or four
year period, the University itself has
changed drastically. Our day-to-
day involvement with the school
often caused us to overlook the
sweeping changes in W&L’s curri-
cular and extracurricular life. Let
me list for you a few of those changes.
Mandatory coats and ties and the
speaking tradition, as some of you
may recall, departed this campus be-
fore we got here, We have seen
the new curriculum expand as
professors experimented on us with
new courses in the Spring Term;
we have made use of the new gym
which opened four months after my
undergraduate classmates and I got

 

here (and several months after it
had been scheduled to open); the
new tennis courts opened last fall;
we heard President Huntley an-
nounce three years ago an ambiti-
ous $56,000,000 development pro-
gram which someday will give this
school a new library, a new law
school, and the apartments you see
under construction in the ravine;
we have witnessed the end of parie-
tals, those bothersome dormitory-
hour regulations; students are now
on every faculty committee and
participate in meetings of the
Board of Trustees; student dis-
ciplinary matters from broken win-
dows to bouncing checks are all
handled by committees composed
exclusively of students; relations on
the campus between black and white
students have improved and, al-

WeL

 

 

     
  

 

 

  

_ I don’t think

Washington and Le

 

 

- i

e’s fu

ta re.”

  
   

  

ae

 

 

 

 

Tl. Hal Clarke elected

to Board of Trustees

Thomas Hal Clarke of Atlanta, a 1938 graduate of the
University who is a nationally recognized expert in the
field of banking law, has been elected to the Board
of Trustees of Washington and Lee.

Clarke—former national vice president and treasurer
of the Washington and Lee Alumni Association—was
elected to a six-year term on the Board at its May meeting
in Lexington. He will be formally installed this autumn.

The new Trustee recently concluded a four-year term as
one of three members appointed by the President to
the Federal Home Loan Bank Board, the governing
agency for the nation’s savings and loan associations.

He is a member of the American, Georgia and Atlanta
Bar Associations and the American Law Institute. He
is the immediate past chairman of the ABA’s section on
corporation, banking and business law and is now a member
of the ABA House of Delegates. He is also a member
of the advisory committee to the Special Committee on
Uniform Land-Transaction Code and a member of the
New York Stock Exchange’s legal advisory committee.

He received both his undergraduate education and his
law training at Washington and Lee, where he was a member
of Delta Tau Delta and president of the house. He was
elected to the University Alumni Board in 1970, served two
terms (1971-72 and 1972-73) as treasurer, and was Alumni
Association vice president in 1973-74. Clarke is also a charter
member of the Robert E. Lee Associates and is a
member of the Law School Council. In 1974 he was
elected to membership honoris causa in Omicron Delta
Kappa.

After receiving his LL.B. degree from Washington and
Lee, Clarke attended the Walker School of Foreign
Service Preparation in Washington, D.C. In 1939 he was
admitted to the Georgia Bar and has spent his entire
professional life in Atlanta, except for service with the
U.S. Navy in the American, European and Pacific theatres
during World War II and his four years in Washington
with the Home Loan Bank Board.

He was a founding partner in the firm of Clarke &
Anderson and is now a senior partner in the firm of Mit-
chell, Clarke, Pate & Anderson. He is also general counsel
of Atlanta Federal Savings and Loan Association.

Intensely interested in history, Clarke is a past presi-
dent of the Atlanta Historical Society and is a member
of the Selden Society, a fraternity for the study of the
history of British common law.

His wife is the former Mary Louise Hastings, a Vassar
graduate who was elected to Phi Beta Kappa in her

junior year there. The Clarkes have three children—Thomas
Hal Clarke Jr., a 1974 graduate of Washington and Lee

10

 

IT. Hal Clarke (left), newly elected trustee, chats with

Dean Frank J. Gilliam at 1974 ODK ceremony.

who will receive his J.D. degree from the School of Law next

year; Mary Katherine Clarke, a student at Mary Baldwin

College; and Rebecca DeSaussure Clarke, who will be

a freshman this fall at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College.
The family is spending the summer in Ireland, where

the Clarkes have purchased and are restoring an old house.
Clarke’s initial term on the University Board will ex-

pire in 1981. He will then be eligible for election to a

second six-year term. Under the Board’s comprehensive

reorganization of 1969, Trustees are permitted to serve

a maximum of two consecutive terms (but become

eligible for election again after having remained off the
Board at least one year).

WeL

J news briefs

A MAJOR DONATION TO CHINESE STUDIES
CA gift of 1,138 books on Chinese art and literature has been
made to Washington and Lee by the Rotary Club of Taipei
(South) and the Chinese Artists and Writers Association. The
volumes, in both Chinese and English, represent the largest
contribution so far to W&L’s growing library in the field of
Chinese studies. The books were specifically selected for their
usefulness in that program. In addition to comprehensive dic-
tionaries and reference works, the gift collection includes
volumes covering the entire range of Chinese culture.
Through the gift, Washington and Lee becomes the first
beneficiary of a movement begun in 1972 by Prof. Wang

Dr. Harold Hill (left), who teaches Chinese and German,

examines library gift with Dr. W. W. Pusey III,
director of W&L’s Chinese studies program.

Lan, a visitor to the University in that year. Wang is a not-
ed watercolor artist, author of 13 novels, and director of the
Chinese Poets, Essayists and Novelists International. The pur-
pose of the movement he started is to assist in the develop-
ment of library resources in Chinese art and literature with-
in newly established Chinese studies programs as well as to
express continuing friendship toward the United States.

N.S.F. GRANT FOR SUMMER CHEMISTRY STUDY
[)The National Science Foundation has made an $8,860
grant for student research and independent study this summer
in chemistry at the University. The grant, made under the
N.S.F.’s Undergraduate Research Participation Program, will
support projects undertaken by four students who will work
with members of the W&L chemistry faculty. The federally
supported foundation made grants totaling $2.8 million to
183 colleges and universities. Washington and Lee was one of
five Virginia institutions included. The NSF program gives
highest priority to energy-related research.

TWO TAPPED BY BUSINESSS FRATERNITY
(Floyd G. Gottwald Jr. of Richmond, board chairman of
Ethyl Corp., and Frank A. Parsons, ’54, assistant to the presi-

July 1975

 

dent of Washington and Lee, were elected honorary members
this spring by the University’s chapter of Beta Gamma Sigma,
the national honor society in business administration. Gott-
wald was the speaker following his and Parsons’ initiation at
a banquet on campus in May.

IN THE ARTS

OThe University’s Department of Fine Arts held its first an-
nual “Arts Week” this spring, complete with an outdoor
town-gown art exhibition, concerts ranging from bluegrass
to classical piano, movies and drama.

The University Theatre (formerly the Troubadours) of-
fered two Shakespearean plays, Othello and The Tempest, in
repertoire this spring. Lee Kahn, head of the Theatre, di-
rected the great tragedy, and Dr. Albert C. Gordon, fine arts
department head, directed the allegorical fantasy.

ETHICS IN MEDICINE

CiTen physicians—all alumni—from five states spent three days
on campus this spring as participants in a professional in-
stitute in connection with the University’s undergraduate
course in medical ethics. The students and physicians ex-
plored the implications of difficult value judgments in-
volved in such matters as abortion, death and dying patients,
experimentation on humans, genetic manipulation, and even
“health as a human right.” Directing a series of seminars as
part of the institute was Dr. Irving S. Cooper, neurosurgeon
at St. Barnabas Hospital in New York, named a year ago by
New York magazine as one of the world’s “six greatest doc-
tors.”

Speaking to and working with students later in the six-
week Spring Term medical ethics course was Rev. John C.
Fletcher, rector from 1960 to 1964 of Lexington’s Robert E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal Church and now president of Inter-
Met, an interdenominational theology education center in
Washington. Dr. Fletcher is nationally known as a lecturer
and author in the areas of human experimentation, applied
genetics and genetic counseling, abortion, euthanasia, death
and transplantation, and the care of deformed infants.

The medical ethics course—with similar courses in legal
and journalistic ethics and in the responsibilities of large
corporations in modern society—is supported by a $300,000
grant made to the University by The Lilly Endowment of
Indianapolis.

KILPATRICK WINDS UP 1975 CONTACT
[Conservative commentator James Jackson Kilpatrick, for-
mer editorial-page editor of the Richmond News Leader,
spoke to Washington and Lee students and guests on the
Washington press corps as the concluding speaker in this
year’s “Contact” symposium, co-sponsored by the Interfra-
ternity Council and the student government. Kilpatrick, who
used his W&L visit as the springboard for a subsequent
column (his “Conservative View” is syndicated nationally by
the Washington Star), had general praise for the media, par-
ticularly for its role in uncovering the Watergate abuses.

W&L AT THE VIRGINIA ACADEMY OF SCIENCE
ODr. Edward F. Turner Jr., professor of physics and depart-

» ment head, has been elected a Fellow of the Virginia Aca-

demy of Science. The honor was announced at the 1975
V.A.S. meeting in Harrisonburg in May. Dr. Turner, who
has taught at Washington and Lee since 1957, was president
of the Academy in 1971-72.

ODr. W. Barlow Newbolt, also a professor of physics, was

Il

 

spring
jor gift of box’

worked at WeL seven -

a

by the Ring-tum Phi as “the house-

 

 

 

 

 

the University’s science f

Le : i. ; - ee ; | -

on, George ‘Ss.

 

 

 

 

 

See

White House dining room just before Senators’ wives arrived for luncheon given in their honor by Mrs. Gerald Ford in May.

?

“Porcelain Butterfly,” one of three linen designs in-
spired by pieces in the University’s priceless Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain and manufactur-
ed by Wamsutta Mills, has been selected for cere-
monial use in the White House.

The bright blue-on-white pattern was used to make
table linens for a luncheon given in May by Mrs. Gerald
Ford in honor of the wives of the members of the U.S.
Senate.

The three porcelain-inspired designs—‘‘Garden” and
“Medallion” in addition to “Butterfly’—are marketed
by Wamsutta as the Liberty Hall Collection, taking the
name of Washington and Lee’s Revolutionary War-era
predecessor institution.

Washington and Lee receives a royalty for its edu-
cational budget from each item sold by Wamsutta in
the Liberty Hall Collection.

The butterfly pattern is adapted from a design on
the edge of an octagonal platter made about 1785. The
plate, similar to another in the Reeves Collection that
was owned by George Washington, is of the Fitzhugh
design, and butterflies were used to “turn” the corners.

Wamsutta used other details from the same platter
elsewhere in the Liberty Hall Collection. The “Medal-
lion,” pattern, as an example, combines a scallop on the
platter with a floral design on a porcelain service in
the Reeves Collection believed to have been owned by
Paul Revere.

 

ek MON | a. “hs

WEL

butterflies
in the

White House

Photograph courtesy of the White House

 

July 1975

 

13

[Sally Munger Mann, a staff photographer for the University,
has been named this year’s recipient of the Ferguson grant,
awarded by Friends of Photography, a Carmel, Calif., founda-
tion. Ms. Mann received the grant on the basis of her plati-
num prints, using a delicate process popular from the late
1800s to the advent of World War I. The grant will enable
her to continue her photographic experimentation. She is one
of the few photographers working in platinum, which has
generally been replaced by silver as the element base for

2 . rh
; on . +e
] ae +
ok Ry Mods US Sve
“ o ‘ a . is q
eS ra hae a a TE

Sa

ts
NET eS | Sea aa,
s ‘ — i

“ rE
= 4 7
4
a
Ea
a
is

rey ‘4
eo god

re ese ca 4 ef

 

A prizewinning photo by Sally Mann: Forest in Denmark.

photographic printing. Platinum produces a remarkably soft,
almost velvety image—ranging in tone from a pale beige to
a dark sepia—which is crisp and sharp, almost like an etching.
Ms. Mann also captured two of three prizes awarded this
spring in the Roanoke Area Photographers Show. She won
the Best in Show designation and a certificate of distinction.
The other certificate was won by Robert H. Lockhart, ’72,
W&L’s staff photographer until last year. Lockhart is now a
freelance photographer in Lexington.

D0. W. Riegel, professor emeritus of journalism, is the author
of a short article, “View Through a Crack in the Tower,” in
the spring issue of The Masthead, the quarterly journal of the
National Conference of Editorial Writers. The article is a
memoir of sorts, drawing on Riegel’s 43 years as a journalism
teacher at Washington and Lee. He notes that his intent
with students was not so much instructing them in writing edi-
torials as in offering them the opportunity “to try to come to
grips with social and political reality and try to determine
what they could or should do, both as persons and as jour-
nalists, about the society and the profession in which they
found themselves.”

14

 

Dr. Halford R. Ryan, debate coach and assistant professor
of English, has been named Virginia state director of the
nationwide Bicentennial Youth Debates program, sponsored
by the Speech Communication Association under a grant from
the National Endowment for the Humanities. Students in
high school and college will compete at several levels next au-
tumn for scholarship awards.

LiJohn S. Emmer, head lacrosse coach at Washington and Lee
—and National Coach of the Year in 1972, 1973 and 1974—
spoke in May as a participant in a special program sponsored
by “Contact,” the annual symposium sponsored by the W&L
Interfraternity Council and the student government. Emmer
discussed the American All-Star lacrosse team’s tour to Au-
stralia last summer. He was assistant American coach with
the team.

DFA series of five papers on government regulation of the
telecommunications industry has been published by the Uni-
versity’s economics department. Telecommunications, Regula-
tion and the Public Choice is edited by Dr. Charles F. Phillips
Jr., professor of economics. The five papers were presented
last August at a symposium sponsored by Washington and
Lee under Phillips’ direction in cooperation with the Chesa-
peake and Potomac Telephone Cos. Phillips was also co-
author of a recent article in Public Utilities Fortnightly ex-
amining a wide-ranging series of proposals to help solve the
problem of “earnings erosion” during periods of high infla-
tion. The article notes that “regulatory lag,” the period be-
tween a utility’s application for relief and the time it is actu-
ally granted by state regulatory agencies, is a major problem
demanding attention. The article also concludes that higher
rates of return for investors—14 to 16 per cent—“‘probably are
required.”

1969 GRADUATE NAMED A LUCE SCHOLAR

DSamuel D. Hinkle IV, a 1969 graduate of Washington and
Lee who now practices law in San Francisco, is one of 15 men
and women in the nation to be named Luce Scholars for a
year’s postgraduate study in the Far East.

Hinkle, who received his J.D. degree from the Yale Law
School in 1972, was nominated for the Luce Fellowship last
year by Washington and Lee, which is one of 60 colleges se-
lected by the Henry A. Luce Foundation of New York to
participate in the program.

The Luce Scholar designation carries a $9,000 stipend in

 

4
Pre

Samuel D. Hinkle delivering 1969 valedictory address.

addition to travel expenses. The program is unique in that
it is Open only to non-Asian specialists.

Hinkle was valedictorian of his graduating class at Wash-
ington and Lee, earning a perfect 4.0 grade-point average in
his four years. He majored in economics and was graduated

WeL

 

 

The fanciest
prom of all

The Washington and Lee butterflies on Wamsutta’s
linens and the President’s special Cabinet-rank coun-
selor, John O. Marsh Jr., a 1951 W&L graduate, aren’t
the University’s only representatives in the White
House these days. Mrs. Ford chose the linens and Presi-
dent Ford chose Jack Marsh—but it was Susan Ford,
their 18-year-old daughter, who chose a Washington and
Lee man, William W. Pifer of Winchester, Va., to be
her date for her senior prom.

Pifer is a junior pre-medical student at W&L. (He
comes from a long line of Washington and Lee men.
His grandfather and father, both surgeons, are alumni,
and his brother Richard was graduated from the Univer-

 

_
July 1975

 

Susan Ford and We&L’s Billy Pifer were the center of attraction at her senior prom—held in the White house.

sity in 1972.) Billy met Susan this spring, when he was
selected to be one of her escorts at the Winchester Apple
Blossom Festival, over which she reigned as Queen.
Afterwards, Susan and Billy (“most popular” in his
class in high school) began exchanging letters and
telephone calls, and before long she asked him to take
her to her prom. Susan was being graduated in June
from the exclusive Holton-Arms School in nearby
Bethesda, Md., and thus it transpired that she and her
classmates arranged to have their last ball at no less
exclusive an address than 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue.

Billy, a member of Pi Kappa Alpha, said the Holton-
Arms prom wasn’t the first time he’d been in the White
House (he’d visited it years ago on a grade-school class
trip)—but, as a guest for the weekend, it was the first
time he’d slept there.

‘“She’s a very down-to-earth girl with a very out-
going personality,” Billy told the press. He added that
she seems “not to have let everything go to her head.”

Of his own newly acquired celebrity status, he com-
mented: “It’s really not what I’m used to—but it’s some-
thing I’ll just have to accept.”

Newsweek photo by Susan McElhinney

15

 

 

summa cum laude. In his senior year he was awarded a Ful-
bright Grant for study in Germany. Washington and Lee has
been invited to nominate as many as three seniors or recent
graduates—under 30 years of age—for the Luce program each
year. Applications for 1976-77 grants should be made before
Oct. 15, 1975, to Dr. Robert W. McAhren, Associate Dean of
‘The College.

FALL 1975 ADMISSIONS REPORT

DApplications were up this year for undergraduate admis-
sion—countering a national trend—and down a bit in the
School of Law—reflecting one.

The University received nearly 1,400 applications for
undergraduate admission—four applications for each place in
the 1975 entering class, an increase of about 12 per cent over
last year’s figures. Confirmations were up as well, and admis-
sions officials said the caliber of incoming freshmen is at
least as high as it has been in any class in recent years.

In the law school, approximately 1,050 completed applica-
tions were processed—13 for each available space in Septem-
ber’s entering class. That total was down about nine per cent
from 1974’s entering class. (The same is true of all good law
schools this year—because, according to law-school admissions
directors throughout the nation, potential applicants of below-
average achievement are ruling themselves out and are not
even applying.) W&L’s Dean Roy L. Steinheimer Jr. observed
that the class that has confirmed for September 1975 admis-
sion ‘should be the best we have ever had.” Applications
came from students in 275 undergraduate institutions in 46
states. About a quarter of the members of the entering law
class will be women, he said.

16

STATE CHAMPS—The WeL debate team, some of whose
1974-75 hardware is shown above, had its best season in recent
years, capturing such honors as the “Best in State” trophy
from the Virginia Forensic Association and the William W.
Chaffin trophy (named for the University’s late debate coach,
killed in an automobile accident in 1970) awarded by the
regional division of Delta Sigma Rho/Tau Kappa Alpha, the
national debate fraternity. In all, the debaters won 21 trophies
in 14 meets held in seven states. (It wasn’t all work, though.
In a tongue-in-cheek debate against Princeton, WeL argued
in favor of—and won, by vote of the audience—the proposition
“Resolved: That the education of women is a fruitless pursuit.”
Princeton’s men declared women should be trained so they
could perform their household chores more efficiently; the
WeL men prevailed, however, with the view that women can’t
be spared from the kitchen long enough to go to school.)
Pictured above at season’s end are, from left, freshman Jim
Barnes; Rodney Petersen, also a freshman, who received

WeL’s own Chaffin Award as the best novice; Dr. Halford R.
Ryan, team coach; and Eddie Fisher, co-winner of the Noell-
Eckes Award to the team’s most outstanding members.

THAT’S ENTERTAINMENT!

CIWLUR-FM, the campus radio station, conducted its an-
nual “All-Request Marathon” this spring, and it would be
understating the matter to suggest that station personnel
were merely overwhelmed by its success. Almost 840 individual
requests were telephoned in, and at one point there was a
12-hour backlog. (The previous “All-Request Marathon” rec-
ord was a mere couple of hundred calls.) WLUR disc jockeys
were on the air playing requests for a total of 62 straight
hours. There was speculation that if they hadn’t decreed an
end to it, WLUR’s disc jockeys might have been compelled to
Stay on the air all summer long.

WeL

by John Hughes, ’55

Sports Information Director

A spectacular finish brings W&L
to NCAA lacrosse semifinals—again

With just three weeks left in the
lacrosse season and Washington and
Lee’s team shackled with a 7-6 record,
you probably could have gotten 100-1
odds that the Generals would not:

1. Beat Johns Hopkins, the
defending national champions,
on Hopkins’ Homewood Field.

2. Beat, in order, four of the
nation’s top-ranked teams—
Roanoke (no. 7), Rutgers (no.
9), Virginia (no. 4) and Johns
Hopkins (no. 1).

3. Make the NCAA champion-
ship tournament for the fourth
straight year, and reach the
semifinals for the third year in
a row.

4. Finish as the fifth-ranked
team in the nation.

You could’ve made a bundle, because
Coach Jack Emmer’s Generals did
just that.

Until then, it had been a mixed
season of disappointments sprinkled
with several satisfying victories. The
pre-season forecast was a cloudy one,
because the 1975 team would take
to the field minus many of the stars
who had led the Generals to such heights
the past several seasons: three First-
Team All-Americans in Skeet Chadwick,
Ted Bauer and Skip Lichtfuss; three
other All-Americans in defenseman
Jim Farrar and midfielders Bryan
Chasney and John Lalley; plus several
other key players who graduated.

Coach Emmer thus faced the 1975
season with the vital midfield corps
largely untried. The first three mid-
fields—nine men in all—would consist
of Ken Miller (one of only two seniors
on the squad) and eight freshmen
and sophomores. There were no ex-
perienced face-off men either. But the
defense was sound, built around junior
All-American Rob Lindsey and soph
Tommy Keigler. And the attack was
super, with the two leading scorers
returning in All-American Dave War-

July 1975

i é

Bec aaa SS

Defenseman John Strock (31) and midfielder Charlie Stieff congratulate attackman Rob

Ps.
Ae

WIMAGTONe

wt

4

Re.

 

Morgan on one of his four goals in 9-5 victory over Virginia.

field and Don Carroll (between them
they had 77 goals and 60 assists last
year), plus Rob Morgan, a transfer
from the Air Force Academy, where
he led the nation in scoring two years
ago.

The season began ominously. Just
before the first game—an expected
breather with Morgan State—Warfield
suffered a severe knee injury in prac-
tice. Not only were his scoring punch
and leadership missed for the next six
games; his absence also forced Emmer
to shift other players around to un-
familiar positions. And the middies’
inexperience showed as Morgan State
rallied from a deficit to, pull off the
season’s first (but far from last) major
upset, 8-7. It ended, at 27, W&L’s two-
year string of winning regular season
games.

A come-from-behind victory over

Connecticut (9 to 7) and romps over
Duke (23 to 2) and Bowling Green

(16 to 3) gave rise to considerable op-
timism on the part of the W&L faith-
ful. But then the Generals played three
of the nation’s top-ranked teams

and came up on the short end each
time: 11-7 to Princeton (no. 9), 14-8 to
Navy (no. 5), and 14-13 in sudden-
death overtime to Hofstra (no. 6). (Los-
ing a close one was an unfamiliar
experience for most of the Generals,
but it would soon become a

haunting pattern: before the season
ended they would lose four games by a
single goal, two of them in sudden-
death overtime.)

However, there were more than a
few victories to offset the disappoint-
ments. Road wins were recorded over
two highly regarded college division
teams, 15-14 over no. 1 Towson and

17

Teaching the Bluejays a lesson: Charlie Brown (no. 10, dark shirt) takes the ball...

KODAK PLUS

ne ea

PAN

ae

a
eae

eee es

Khe

ee at = ae s oa
i

15-10 over no. 6 Cortland. (Towson

was the defending national champion

in the college division, and Cortland
went on to win the title this year.)

The annual thriller with ‘Towson
proved to be just that, as freshman
midfielder Scott Baugher scored the
winning goal for the Generals with

only five seconds remaining in the game.
(Iwo years ago, Teddy Bauer had

done the same thing with 22 seconds

left; last year, Skip Lichtfuss fired

in the tying goal with just 14

seconds remaining, and W&L won

it in overtime, 19-17.) The game marked
the return to full form of Dave War-
field, who scored seven goals and
assisted on four others.

W&L at last had a one-goal victory,
but soon afterwards came up a goal
short against another highly ranked
college division squad, no. 2 Washing-
ton College of Maryland, by a 15-14
score. That left the Generals with just
a 7-6 overall record and only three
games remaining in the regular season.
The pollsters placed W&L in the no. 12
slot, meaning the Generals’ chances of
being one of the eight teams selected
for the post-season championship
tournament were slim indeed.

‘Then came the late-season surge
that turned the season completely
around. First W&L outscored a much
improved Roanoke team (15 to 11), with
Warfield netting six goals. Rutgers,
also eager for post-season play, came
to Lexington ranked ninth and fresh
off a victory over eighth-ranked Prince-
ton. With attackmen Carroll, Morgan

18

Pe
and Warfield accounting for 10
goals and six assists, W&L blew the
visitors off the field early, running up
leads of 10-4 and 13-6. But a severe
thunderstorm delayed the game 44
minutes, turned Wilson Field into a
quagmire and slowed the Generals
down severely, almost fatally. Rutgers
scored the next six goals to cut the
lead to one, but the W&L defense
held and Morgan scored the clinching
goal with just 36 seconds left. Now
the Generals had won another close
one.

“Outstanding teams year in and
year out have the ability to win the
close ones,’”’ Coach Emmer had ob-
served. “Early in the year we didn’t
show that ability.”

But the Rutgers victory was costly.
Warfield was injured again, suffering a
broken thumb that severely handicapped
his playing ability the rest of the
season.

Suddenly, the Generals were ranked
10th in the country and had a shot
at the playoffs, if only they could
beat archrival (and fourth-ranked)
Virginia in the last game of the
regular season. Before the usual
appreciative crowd of 5,000 at Wilson
Field, W&L played nearly perfect la-
crosse, combining a superb defense
with a well-balanced, controlled offense
to roll up leads of 6-1 and 7-2; then,
when Virginia rallied to within two
goals, regrouping to pull out a 9-5
victory. Much of the credit went to
the goal-tending of freshman Charlie
Brown, who came on magnificently at

 

season’s end after alternating with
junior Malcolm Hastings in the goal
and even playing several games at mid-
field.

The NCAA championship selection
committee rewarded W&L’s impressive
season finish with an invitation to
play in the tournament—against top-
seeded Johns Hopkins at the Blue Jays’
Homewood Field, the “Mecca” of
almost every lacrosse player. It was also
the site of last year’s semifinal game
in which Hopkins rallied from a three-
goal deficit to edge W&L’s best team
ever, en route to the Jays’ national
championship.

W&L did not disappoint the selec-
tion committee nor its ardent fans,
and Coach Emmer came up with a
brilliant bit of defensive strategy that
was a key factor in the Generals’ big
upset. Deciding to match strength-
against-strength, Emmer chose big,
strong Rick Kulp (6-3, 210) to counter
Hopkins’ massive attackman, Franz
Wittelsberger, who at 6-2, 225 is
known in lacrosse circles as a “‘bull-
dodger,” or one who simply bowls over
anything in his way to the goal. Kulp
is a junior and an outstanding
athlete (having made All-State three
times as a lineman for the W&L foot-
ball team), but he had hardly ever
heard of lacrosse before coming to
W&L, and had never played the game
until Emmer invited him out at the
beginning of the year.

“T knew he was an excellent athlete,
and I felt he could help us as a face-
off specialist and defenseman,” Emmer

WeL

. and hurls a perfect shot from the 40-yard stripe into Hopkins’ untended goal.

KODAK: OAFETY: FVEM
ee ee ee eo es es oe
ie of * ae

aya

said. The W&L coach also recruited, as

a faceoff specialist, another non-lacrosse
player, burly Brent Miller. “I asked
around campus, ‘Who’s the best athlete
in the student body?’ and several stu-
dents mentioned Miller.”

(By the season’s end, Miller and
Kulp had wrestled the faceoff chores
from 10 other candidates. Between them
they won 58 per cent of their faceoffs.
And as the season progressed, both
gained considerable confidence in
their stick-handling abilities and saw
more and more playing time.)

Moving Kulp on Wittelsberger
released W&L’s gifted defensemen,
such as Rob Lindsey and Tommy
Keigler, to play Hopkins’ offensive stars
more their size. The result: Lindsey
shut out his Hopkins opponent for the
second straight year, and Keigler did
likewise. Only two Hopkins players were
able to score as goalie Brown and W&L
defense held the Jays’ midfield com-
pletely scoreless.

W&L’s game plan was a hopeful one
—to get a two-or three-goal lead and
play a controlled, almost “slowdown”
type of game. “It took us about three-
fourths of the season to evaluate all our
personnel, especially with so many
new faces,” Coach Emmer reflected later.
“We found that our best style was not
the ‘run-and-gun’ prevalent in the
past, but a more controlled approach,
with slowed-down clears and a more
deliberate offense.”

The Generals were able to work
the game plan perfectly. First the
offense scored on its first three shots

July 1975

A
Rae

3s : 6) eyAN /

LUS XK_PAN FILM

s
a * + Slice Sait
:
x

KODAK

 

for a quick 3-0 lead. After Wittelsber-
ger made it 3-1, Brown pulled off the
most spectacular play of the year,
throwing a perfect strike for a goal from
more than 60 yards away. The heave

took one long bounce and hit the center
of the Hopkins net, which the goalie
had briefly left unattended.

“I noticed on an earlier clear that
the goalie came out, so I decided to
try a shot the next time,’’ Brown
explained later. During a time out, he
informed teammate Rob Morgan and
an official of his plans. (Brown wanted
the official to know it was a shot and
not a pass, so if it missed and went
out of bounds, Morgan could get close
to it and retain possession of the ball.)

Either through neglect or lack of
time, Brown failed to notify any of the
W&L coaches, who were just as shocked
as the 5,000 spectators when he let the
shot go.

“We had noticed that an earlier
opponent (Towson) tended to leave its
goal open on clears, and we even had
our defensemen practice that shot,”
Emmer said. “And Rob Lindsey almost
had a goal against Towson from the
midfield line.

“But we hadn’t picked it up in
our scouting report on Hopkins,”
Emmer continued. “Give all the credit
for that one to Charlie.”

Hopkins never seemed to recover
from that point on, and W&L con-
tinued to dominate at both ends of
the field, combining perfectly its tough
defense and controlled offense. The
Generals steadily increased their lead to

HS wet : :
® —

_ ey & “i a eo
ee ee eo ee oO
aN 8 eta

KODAK SAFETY _FILM

Sus

es

eae. oe oad

6-2, then 7-3 at the half, and then an
almost unbelievable 10-4 late in the
third quarter. Hopkins made one short
run to trim the margin to 10-7, before
Morgan iced the game with a late goal
to make the final score 11-7.

The next game was a big anti-
climax, as powerful Maryland played
up to its full potential and defeated an
injury-plagued W&L team, 15-5, in a
semifinal game at College Park. (Mary-
land went on to defeat Navy, coached
by former W&L coach Dick Szlasa, for
the championship. Szlasa was named
Coach-of-the-Year, ending Emmer’s
three-year reign with the top award.)

The Generals did not play well
against Maryland, which did. Losing
half their attack was a definite and
important factor. Warfield was still
severely hampered by the cast on his
broken thumb, and Morgan suffered a
severe thigh bruise in a pre-game
practice and could not even suit up.

When post-season honors were hand-
ed out, Lindsey was named to the All-
American first team, Warfield to the
second team, Keigler to the third, and
Carroll made honorable mention.

With only Warfield and midfielder
Miller lost to graduation, with goalie
Charlie Brown helping people to forget
Skeet Chadwick, and with several
talented freshmen already planning to
enroll next fall, W&L’s lacrosse out-
look continues to be bright.

“We came an awful long way—
much farther than many expected,”
Emmer said. “And we plan to continue
that success in the future.”

19

Class of 1954A leads Alumni Fund
to an all-time high of $505,204

When the books closed on the 1974-75 Alumni Fund on
June 30, it had reached an all time high of $505,204. This is
$35,204 over the goal of $470,000 and $82,439 more than was
raised last year, an increase of 19.5%. The average gift of
$112.54 was also an all time high.

The number of donors, however, was 59 fewer than last
year — 4,489 against 4,548. Participation fell from 35.1% to
5.0 Fe:

Led by Class Agent Frank Parsons, the Class of 1954A
won both the Washington and the Richmond Trophies. ‘The
Washington Trophy is awarded to the academic class graduat-
ed in the last 50 years that contributes the largest amount; the
Richmond Trophy to the academic class graduated in the last
50 years with the highest percentage of participation. The
Class of 1954A’s total of $21,890 is the most ever raised by a
non-reunion year class. Its participation of 58.7% is the high-
est ever recorded by an academic class graduated within the
last 50 years.

The Class of 1965A, Jack DeJarnette, Class Agent, won
the Bierer Trophy, awarded to the academic class graduated
in the last 10 years with the highest participation. The Class
of 1965A’s participation was 39.9%.

TROPHY STANDINGS

 

Washington Richmond Bierer
1. 1954A $21,890 1. 1954A 58.7% 1. 1965A 39.9%
2. 1940A $19,008 2. 1930A 48.3% 2. 1967A 34.0%
3. 1941A $18,654 3. 1949A 43.8% 3. 1966A 28.0%
4. 1926A $15,737 4. 1961A 43.7% 4. 1971A = 28.0%
5. 1938A $15,712 5. 1934A 42.6% 5. 1974A 27.9%
REPORT OF ALUMNI FUND
June 30, 1975
1974-75 1973-74
Goal $470,000 $435,000
Total Received $505,204 $422,765
Percent of Goal 107.5% 97.2%
Number of Donors 4,489 4,548
Percent Participation 33.5% 35.1%
Number of Increased Gifts 1,407 1,058
Number of Decreased Gifts 421 528
Number Giving Same as Year Before 1,636 1,818
Number of Returnees 619 688
Number of New Gifts 406 456
Number of Gifts of $100 or More 1,445 1,438
Average Gift $ 112.54 $ 92.96

 

20

     

Frank Parsons, Class Agent of the Class of 1954A, winner
of the Washington and the Richmond Trophies,
at a recent class reunion.

 

Jack DeJarnette, Class Agent of the Class of 1965A,
winner of the Bierer Trophy.

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

}
f
a

Class

*1915A
*1924A =H.
*Old Guard
*1925A
*1926A_
*1927A

 

y

ae

eo

o

Pt

J.

 

 

 

 

 

*1945ARI, C. s. Rowe
4 1946A&L D. S. Hillman | 2 30.0}, OL ST.
| _W.G. Merrin © O 18 24.7 — J. S. ” Bailey :
R. Gates 64,563 25 9.3 . M. Turk
949A  E. S. Epley «114387 — 43.800 | R. M. J. Ruscick —
| 0A  D. A. Malmo > 15,242 —. 28.8 iD. S, Latourette
| 951A *F. ‘J. Ahern — a . 8,282 — 87 87.2 *1955L J. M. Faison —
82 |  -1956L sR. S. Harp
‘A. S. Glickstein | 348 | *1957L D. K. Frith
" FLA. Parsons 21,8 128 98.7 | 1958L R. G. McCullough
55A oD. M. Berlinghof 78 86.1 | 19590. A. Neff
~  1956A ~—L. C. Greenebaum. 52000 27.6 *1960L —-G.._H. Fralin, Jr.
57A S$. M. Ehudin a — -35.7-« | #1961L. WW. F.. Ford
958A = S. Dudley 7,7. 91a | geeks. Pewold
8841 101 43.7 | 1965L
5820 75 272 | 1966L
6,590 115 38.9 | 1967L
6617 — 116 839.5 | *1968L
8117 110 = 39.9 | —1969L,
1 , #-R, ( cea ee ‘ a UV 28.0 | — *1970L
968A K. J. 8, . ‘19.9 19721,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
          

 

 

 

the Alumni
attractive fo)

nn re ee | “66 each chapter ¢
he ni who are

 

: | , 'B8, of At- tary should have large 1
Janta; Cc. Roy ce Hough, « 59, of Winston- operation ¢ of ane ae
Salem, N.C.; Charles C. Stieff II, 45, of

 

 

 

 

‘ter surveys, visiing vir
ter each year, carrying on

at our chapters as -
oa orednizadioa”

 

 

 

@ The question of dues should be
left up to each individual chapter. Many
chapters have found that nominal dues
help identify alumni who are truly de-
sirous of participation and also provide
working capital to carry on chapter ac-
tivities.

@ The University administration
should do more to make University per-
sonnel available to the Alumni Secretary
and the Alumni Board for chapter pro-
grams.

@ A competitive program and system
of awards should be established among
the chapters. Each chapter would be
encouraged to strive for a rating of “‘out-
standing.” The officers of “outstanding”
chapters would be awarded small plaques
indicating that their chapters achieved
the distinction during their tenure. Sev-
eral awards could be made each year,
based on criteria to be established con-
cerning social functions, fund raising, stu-
dent recruitment, and the like. Addition-
ally, one chapter should be designated
“most outstanding” each year, and a suit-
able award furnished.

@ A new system of class organization
should be established. Late in the senior
year, a key senior in each academic and
law class should be designated Class
Agent along with an assistant. These men
should undergo orientation in alumni
affairs and in their responsibilities as
alumni and Class Agents. Before gradua-
tion, they should meet their fellow gra-
duates to discuss their future role as
alumni.

@ An alumni class representative
should be appointed from each fraternity
late in each senior year. His job should
be to solicit his fraternity classmates for
gifts to the Alumni Fund and to encour-
age his classmates to return for reunions.
Recognition should be given to the fra-
ternity returning the greatest percentage
of its class.

@ Classes coming back for reunions
should be scheduled closer together. For
example: 1921, ’22, and ’23; ’31, ’32, and

July 1975

 

 

Bass named alumni aide

James Martin Bass, a 1970 cum laude
graduate of Washington and Lee, has
been named to the newly created posi-
tion of Assistant to the Secretary of the
University’s Alumni Association. Bass
took office July 1, after completing a
year as law clerk to the Chief Justice of
the Arkansas Supreme Court.

Working with Alumni Secretary Wil-
liam C. Washburn, Bass will have a wide
range of duties involving direct coordina-
tion with the Alumni Association’s more
than 50 chapters throughout the na-
tion—including preparation of a compre-
hensive Chapter Manual—as well as es-
tablishment of new chapters, reactiva-
tion of dormant chapters, and liaison
with younger alumni.

The decision to establish the new
position of Assistant to the Secretary
came out of an extensive study conduct-
ed by a special committee named by the

Alumni Board. The recommendations
submitted to the full Alumni Board—
with a detailed description of the par-
ticular areas of responsibility assigned to
the new Assistant—are contained in the
accompanying article.

After receiving his B.A. degree in Eng-
lish, Bass taught for a year at The Mc-
Callie School in Chattanooga, Tenn.
He then entered the University of Ar-
kansas Law School and received his de-
gree in 1974. He was admitted to the
Arkansas Bar last September and began
his Arkansas Supreme Court clerkship
then.

At W&L, he was a member and of-
ficer of Sigma Chi. He was also a dormi-
tory counselor in his junior and senior
years, and was president of Fancy Dress
in 1970. He is married to the former
Sarah Embrey of Fredericksburg, Va., a
1970 graduate of Sweet Briar.

 

 

 

 

ss, listing
ools. Alum-

 

; officer from each create pride in Washington and Lee but could deal with such’
jing. * ple wares should mong alun ; ‘i and admirati nam wo | vel, the work of a partic
sanized as soon as | practical. This others by showing the University as an and the like. The Alumni
ore than _institutio 3 ligation should publish an annual
ni in the magazine a
cial statements and a

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $66.00 f.o.b.

Lexington, Virginia

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Immediate shipment
from available stock.

 

 

 

July 1975

1908

ROBERT S. KEEBLER of Silver Spring, Md., re-
tired in 1959 after 25 years service with the
U.S. Government. He now lives in a re-
tirement home and is of good health and
spirit.

1923

Dr. JUDSON B. HOLLOWAY was recently hon-
ored by the First Baptist Church of Hamil-
ton, Ohio, with a reception in commemora-
tion of his 50 years in the ministry. After
graduation from Washington and Lee he re-
ceived his masters degree in theology from
the Southern Baptist Seminary of Louis-
ville, Ky., in 1926. In April 1925 he was or-
dained into the Gospel ministry in the Wal-
nut Street Baptist Church in Louisville. He
has since been pastor of the Price Hill Bap-

-tist Church of Cincinnati, the First Bap-

tist Church of Ironton, Ohio, the Trinity
Baptist Church of Marion, Ohio, the First
Baptist Church of Urbana, and in 1968 he
was called to the First Baptist Church in
Hamilton.

1927

HAROLD OGDEN SMITH JR., retired after 25
years as executive vice president and chief
executive of the United States Wholesale
Grocers’ Association, is currently executive
director of Food Merchandisers of America,
Inc., and is chairman, National Affairs Com-
mittee, for the National Federation of Food
Distributors. His offices are in Washington,
D.C. He is also president of Master Gour-

COLLEGE PRANK REVISITED—
Gaston Chaves, ’15, now a prominent
manufacturer of electrical sup-

plies in Brazil, came to his

Golden Anniversary Reunion at
Washington and Lee ten years

ago, and brought with him a Western
Union sign snitched half a

century earlier as a prank. He

left it with Prof. Rupert N. Lat-
ture, aide to the president of the
University, and’ promised to

return to reclaim it on the oc-
casion of his 60th reunion. And he
did. With Chaves (left) this

spring on campus were President
Huntley and Prof. Latture, a’

1915 classmate.

mets Institute and Mete Mart Food Stores
Corporation.

The Rev. R. WILBUR SIMMONS is serving as
ad interim minister in San Dimas, Calif.

1929

After many years in a public accounting
firm, RosBerT C. Burris has retired. A resi-
dent of Mt. Vernon, Ohio, he enjoys travel-
ing and fishing.

HENRY .P. JOHNSTON SR. received, at the an-
nual meeting of the Birmingham chapter of
the American Red Cross, a pin for 20 years
of consecutive service on the board and
was elected an honorary life member. He was
chairman of the Birmingham area and re-
gional blood program before becoming chair-
man of the Birmingham chapter.

1930

W. VAN GILBERT is chairman of the board of
First Alabama Bank in Athens. He is also a
director of First Alabama Bankshares in
Montgomery; a director of Vulcan Ameri-
can Life Insurance Co. in Birmingham; and
a trustee of Athens College.

CHARLES W. Cocke of Thomasville, Ga., has
been elected first vice president of the
Georgia Federation of Chapters of the Na-
tional Association of Retired Federal Em-
ployees.

1933

Nei. Z. MEREDITH retired in September 1974
as superintendent of transporation, Western

 

Class Notes

Maryland Railway after more than 41 years
of service.

WALTER J. POUND retired in October 1974
after 41 years with Home Life Insurance Co.
He held the position of assistant manager
for mortgages and real estate. He was also an
officer of the company. Pound is a licensed
real estate salesman and will devote some
time to this effort. He is also president of
the Rockland County (New York) Com-
munities Aid Association.

Dr. RALPH S. EMERSON, a_ practicing
surgeon in Roslyn Heights, N.Y., has been
elected president of the Medical Society of
the State of New York. Before becoming
president-elect in 1974, Dr. Emerson served
the state society as vice president, a mem-
ber of its council and delegate to the AMA.
Dr. Emerson, director of surgery at Man-
hasset Medical Center Hospital, also holds
consulting posts at three other Long Island
hospitals. A fellow of the American College
of Surgeons, Dr. Emerson is president of
the college’s Brooklyn-Long Island Chapter
anl is a past president of Nassau Surgical
Society. He is also a past president of the
Nassau County Medical Society, a fellow of
the Nassau Academy of Medicine, and a
member of the American Board of Surgery
and the New York Academy of Sciences.

1934

ISADORE E. DATTEL is chairman of the board
of General Savings and Loan Association in
Ruleville, Miss. He is also first vice presi-
dent of the Mississippi Retail Merchants As-
sociation. Dattel has earned the Silver
Beaver Award of the Boy Scouts of America.

T. M. Borann retired Dec. 31, 1974,
after almost 40 years with DuPont Company.

RopertT K. Turney retired Feb. 1, 1975,
from Peoples Savings Bank in Bridgeport,

Conn.
1935

WILLIAM A. WILSON, after 35 years with U.S.
Steel Corp., expects to retire this fall.

JAMEs M. FRANKLIN, now fully retired, keeps
busy on the board of trustees of his local
church as finance chairman and doing con-
siderable traveling.

1936

In May, GEORGE W. HARRISON of Henderson,
N. C., was presented the Elk of the Year
Award.

Dr. T. H. ALPHIN is deputy vice president

26

of administration at the University of Ala-
bama Medical Center in Birmingham.

EDWARD L. SEITz is retired after more than
38 years of service with E. I. DuPont de Ne-
mours. He lives in Charleston, W.Va.

1937

RANDOLPH V. L. HALL is senior consultant
for Bridgeport Testing Laboratory, Inc. This
past summer he and his wife, Beverly, took
a rail and ferry trip through Alaska and
the Yukon territory visiting and camping
with their son Barton and his wife.

1938

WILLIAM L. WILSON, prominent citizen and
attorney of Cumberland, Md., has_ been
awarded an honorary Doctor of Laws degree
by Frostburg State College at commence-
ment ceremonies in May. Wilson is a former
member of the Allegany County Board of
Education and served as vice president of
the State Board of Education and was chair-
man of the board of trustees of the State
Colleges of Maryland. He also served as a
member of the State Roads Commission. In
1971 he was appointed bank commissioner
of Maryland. He was president of Queen
City Brewing Co. of Cumberland and also
served as director of the First National Bank
and Trust Co. of Western Maryland. He is
a director of the Maryland Bar Foundation,
the United States Brewers Association, the
Cumberland Fair Association, Sacred Heart
Hospital, and former president of the Cum-
berland Chamber of Commerce.

1939

JOHN B. PEARSON, a practicing attorney in
Bloomfield, Conn., writes he has no thought
of retiring. He enjoys going abroad twice a
year.

MARTIN V. PARTENOPE will retire in Novem-
ber 1975 after 30 years with Southern Paci-

fic Railroad.
194]

Davip B. GALT has been elected to the board
of directors of The Episcopal-Presbyterian
Foundation for the Aging. Galt is a past
president of the North County YMCA and
past assistant city attorney for Ferguson, Mo.
He now heads the Ferguson Historical So-
ciety. Galt was the 1974 president of the St.
Louis Insurance Board and currently is a
member of the board of directors of the
Missouri Association of Independent Insur-
ance Agents.

 

Arthur Thompson Jr., ’43

KIAH T. Forp Jr. is president of Columbia
Insurance Agency, Inc., and Columbia Life
Insurance Company, both non-bank affiliates
of Fidelity American Bankshares Inc. of Lyn-
chburg. He and his wife, Helen, have three
children and five grandchildren.

1943

ARTHUR THOMPSON JR. has been named man-
ager of the New York branch of Fireman’s
Fund American Insurance Companies. He
began with Fireman’s Fund in 1946 as an
ocean marine trainee. He later held under-
writing and sales positions in New York and
Philadelphia, and in 1955 was named ma-
rine manager in Newark. He was appointed
resident manager of Newark in 1970.
Thompson is serving on the New Jersey ad-
visory committee of the Insurance Informa-
tion Institute and is a past president of the
New Jersey Association of Insurors. He is
also on the board of the Staten Island Hos-

pital Association.
1944

Dr. WILLIAM P. PEAK is a practicing rheu-
matologist in Louisville, Ky., and is on the
faculty of the University of Louisville School

of Medicine.
1945

J. Maurice MILLER, JR., senior vice president
of the Life Insurance Company of Virginia,
has been elected president of the Associa-
tion of Life Insurance Counsel. He joined
Life of Virginia in 1953. Miller is also senior
vice president of Richmond Corp., Life of
Virginia’s parent company.

WALTER E. FRYE is a teacher in the public
schools in Santa Barbara, Calif.

1946

Dr. HAROLD T. MANKIN is a consultant in
cardiovascular disease at the Mayo Clinic
and Mayo Medical School. He is a director
of cardiac rehabilitation and chairman of
the heart committee of the Minnesota State
Medical Association. He and his wife have

five children.
1949

BRIAN BELL is with the U.S. State Depart-
ment as public affairs adviser to the assistant
secretary of state for interamerican affairs.
This summer he expects to go to Santiago,
Chile, to be public affairs officer at the
American embassy there. Mrs. Bell is the
spokeswoman for the Fairfax County Police
Department. She is media relations officer

WeL

 

GregoryM.Humphries,55 Warren R. Welsh, ’57

with the equivalent rank of major. The
Bells have four children.

HENRY M. BARKER retired from active duty
with the Air Force and is now working for
Knox County, Tenn., as director of per-
sonnel.

J. Maurice MILLER, JR. (See 1945).

1950

Davip S. CRoYDER developed one of the larg-
est home building companies in the Wash-
ington, D. C., area. In 1971 he sold his
company, Croyder-Irvin Co., to American
Cyanamid Co. Now he invests in real estate
and plays tennis. He and his wife have five

children.
1952

Davip CONSTINE JR. is executive vice presi-
dent of Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., a real
estate firm in Richmond. He and his wife
have four children.

RICHARD G. BALLARD has’ been named
executive director of the Maryland Commis-
sion on Kidney Disease. He was former exe-
cutive director of the Arthritis Foundation
in Maryland and was former president of the
Maryland Public Health Association.

1954

THE REv. RICHARD A. BuscH is assistant di-
rector of the Center for Continuing Educa-
tion at Virginia Theological Seminary in
Alexandria. In June he received his Ph.D.
in pastoral care and counseling from the
School of Theology at Claremont, Calif.

1955

DEAN BENDER is a trial attorney in Mercer
Island, Wash., a suburb of Seattle. His
firm specializes in personal injury, tort and
environmental litigation. The Benders have
five children.

GREGORY M. HUMPHRIES of Newton, N.C. has
recently been promoted to president of
Horizons, Inc., a furniture manufacturing
firm. For the last year Humphries has serv-
ed Horizons as executive vice president. He
was formerly vice president of marketing at
Paragon Design, a Waynesboro-based subsi-
diary of Sperry & Hutchinson. Horizons, Inc.,
established in 1968, has two plants in the
Newton area and one at Kings Mountain,
N.C. Humphries is married to the former
Nancy Coiner of Waynesboro, Va. The
couple has two sons and moved in July to
their new home in Hickory.

July 1975

Dr. Harry G. KENNEDY Jr. of Elcajon, Calif.,
finished his residency in July 1974 and will
enter the practice of radiology in Virginia
Beach. His wife will graduate from San
Diego State University in June with a major
in anthropology.

PauL R. MULLER was recently appointed
chief of the Civil Actions Branch of the
Social Security Administration. He is respon-
sible for litigated claims involving Social
Security and medicare benefits and claims for
coal miners’ black lung benefits under the
Federal Coal Mine Health and Safety Act.
Besides Muller there are four other Wash-
ington and Lee men in the Social Security
Administration’s Bureau of Hearings and
Appeals: Edward Yurkov, °57; Bill Storey,
‘61; Peter J. (Jim) Kurapka, ’53, and Leonid

Mickle, ’66.
1956

Jupce JAMEs H. HaArvett III of Newport
News is judge of the Seventh Judicial Dis-
trict of Virginia, project director of the Pen-
insula Alcohol Safety Action Project, chair-
man of the Peninsula Alcohol Council, and
chairman of the Newport News Highway
Safety Commission.

JAMEs L. PULLEN of Rockwell, Tex., is the
inspector for the Drug Enforcement Admini-
stration of the Justice Department.

1957

WARREN R. WELSH has been appointed di-
rector of security for Playboy Enterprises,
Inc. Welsh joined Playboy from the Interna-
tional Telephone & Telegraph Corp. in New
York, where he was security coordinator of
I'l'l’s world headquarters from 1974 to
1975. Before his work with ITT, he was an
attorney for the National Broadcasting Com-
pany. He began his career as a_ special
agent for the Federal Bureau of Investiga-
tion in St. Louis and Miami from 1961 to
1969.

WILLIAM J. RUSSELL JR., formerly with But-
cher & Suiger, a New York Stock Exchange
firm in Philadelphia and former president
of Valley Forge Investment Corp., is now
with Connors Investors Service of Reading,
Pa. He is a vice president of the firm, which
has developed a propriety computer program
that evaluates all call option opportunities
on the Chicago Board of Options.

1958

JAMEs J. CRAWFORD Jr. holds the position of

manager of geology for North Sea Sun Oil
Co., Ltd. His previous assignments have in-
cluded a brief time in Aberdeen, Scotland.

CHARLES E. NOLTE has been elected presi-
dent of the Baltimore-Washington Food
Brokers Association for 1975.

DoMINIcK A. FLoRA is now in Scottsdale,
Ariz., with W. D. Daum and staff in in-
dustrial real-estate development.

1959

A. J. Lester III, branch manager of the
Martinsville office of Wheat, First Securities,
Inc., member firm of the New York Stock
Exchange, has been elected a senior vice
president of the firm. Lester joined Wheat,
First Securities in 1963. He was elected vice
president in 1968.

1960

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN has joined First
Mortgage Company of Boston as vice presi-
dent.

FIELDER IsRAEL JR. received his masters de-
gree in divinity from Virginia Theological
Seminary in May and was ordained to the
deaconate of Washington in June.

1961

WINSTON E. KOCK JR. is assistant vice presi-
dent at Loeb Rhoades and Co. on Wall
Street, where he specializes in commercial
paper and certificate of deposit. He lives in
Manhattan.

E. HUNTER THOMPSON was recently promoted
to associate partner and director of research
for Branch Cabell & Co., an investment bro-
kerage firm in Richmond.

Dr. CHARLES P. RILEY is practicing cardio-
logy in Pensacola, Fla. After completing a
fellowship in cardiology at the University of
Alabama in Birmingham and subsequently
passing the specialty board examinations in
cardiovascular diseases, he was elected to
fellowship in the American College of Physi-
cians and the American College of Cardio-
logy. He is also a fellow of the American
Heart Association’s Council on Clinical Car-
diology and on the board of directors of the
West Florida Heart Association. He is mar-
ried to the former Suzanne Scoggins of Pen-
sacola.

DONALD W. THALACKER is an architect for
the federal General Service Administration.

27

 

 

 

RoBERT G. HOLLAND, 2

editor of the Rich1
and former direct

7 <e
ge

er and operator of —
Restaurant in Roa-

 

 

ee

profesional debut a ne Ker

, will serve as law ae for U. S. Dis

a‘

 

 

the Ridge Road |

Married to. the former Deborah Steely, K Kend
rick is jabeistant minister of

“oe a Sai “oemed a

 

 

 

ith Georgia Pacific = WILLIAM: G. K. M
and his wife have year of an ‘M.B.A.

in New York City, is now East t lit ma
Henry Schroder Banking vo

is a subsidiary of a
~The Brookics live

and {residency taining con Va., on

WILLIAM. BL | FowLEr has
with Bache & Co.,
Stock Exchange in ‘Atlanta

Kelso, "68. Members. of
were the brother of the

ROBERT G. (Bo) Bre O
Wachovia - |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

on
ae a woul have beer

 

eee

 

  

 

ee

—

University chaplain. and professor of
religion, officiating, assisted by Dr.

.

ard, 7 junior from

* .

 

 

 

 

ed a and —

 

 

 

 

py

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $45.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

‘The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-]ACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

