 

 

 

el

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 51, Number 4, May 1976

William C. Washburn, °40..00000.....000ccccccccccccccceccccecees Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68.00.0000... ccc Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel.................... Editorial Assistants
Sally Mann oo... eccceeccsenecteeteeeseeseeeeen Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Mock Convention Picks Carter .......00000000000...... 1
Convention Sidelights 200.000.000.000 wa 4
Women in the Law .oo........coccceccececececeeeeeteeeeeee 8
Charles Phillips, A Sketch o.0..0.000 0 cceee 11
Distinguished Alumnus Awards ......................0......: 12
Alumni Officers 20000000000000000ccceeecccccccccseceeseeeeeseeeens 13
Spring Reunion Faces 0.0.0.0... 14
Campus Ne€WS ooo... ccccccccceccececenesenseensteneeen 16
Contact 1976 ooo. cecccseveseceeeneevsseeeee 20
Chapter News ooo......cccccccccccccceccecescesceseeseeeeesees 21
0) EB (0) nr 24
In Memoriam ooo... ccccccceceeeeeeceececsecsesseveees 28

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001,

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

THomas B. Brancu III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
President

J. THomas Toucuton, ’60, Tampa, Fla.
Vice President

CHARLEs C, STIEFF II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. Wasusurn, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 763, Columbus, Ohio
PHILip R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DuDLEy, 758, Richmond, Va.

EpwIn J. Fo.tz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.

Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HO tis, 51, Memphis, Tenn.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.

Jerry G. Sout, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
RosBerT M. White II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

-~
o=<»" >

ON THE COVER: “The best yet,” said many peo-
ple of the 1976 Washington and Lee Mock Con-
vention. It was realistic enough as the sample of
pictures on the cover attests: The raised Jimmy
Carter banner, the gala parade through downtown
Lexington, the demonstration for the winning
nominee, and rhetoric from the rostrum. Conven-
tion coverage starts on the opposite page. Photo-
graphs by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, and Sally Mann.

 

 

Text by Robert S. Keefe, ’68

Photos by W. Patrick Hinely, ’73, and Sally Mann

Mock Democrats tap Carter

I

Jubilation reigns as Carter goes over the top.

With backers of George Wallace
throwing him their support after the
first roll call, former Georgia Gov. Jimmy
Carter won the Democratic presidential
nomination on the second ballot May 8
at Washington and Lee’s 16th Mock Con-
vention, historically the most accurate
predictor of out-of-power-party _ presi-
dential politics among all the nation’s
collegiate conventions,

Carter had tallied 1,370% delegate
votes on the first ballot—134 short of the
1,504% required for the nomination, but
far ahead of the rest of the field. No
other candidate received even one-quarter
as many votes as Carter.

Wallace’s supporters moved to help
capture the nomination for their fellow
Southerner as soon as the first ballot
proved that Wallace was out of the run-

 

The call to order

ning, when he came in fourth, with only
273 delegate votes. His own Alabama
delegation signaled the shift, casting 31
of its 35 votes for Carter at the beginning
of the second roll call. On the first ballot,
25 of the Alabama votes had gone to
Wallace, and Carter received only six.

Other states which had shown sub-
stantial support for Wallace followed
suit—principally Florida, Indiana, Louisi-
ana, Massachusetts and Mississippi—be-
fore the New York delegation put Carter
over the top by giving him all 274 of its
votes. On the first ballot, Carter had re-
ceived only 73 delegate votes from New
York.

With the nomination in hand as a re-
sult of the New York vote, the convention
roared its approval of a motion to declare
Carter the party candidate by acclama-

in two ballots

 

tion.

The nominee himself, who was on the
campaign trail in Grand Island, Neb.,
spoke to the Mock Convention by tele-
phone shortly after his nomination. Car-
ter told the student delegates: “I’m going
to try to live up to your expectations of
me—and maybe exceed them by winning
on the first ballot” at the real conven-
tion.

“This expression of your confidence
in me,” he told the cheering W&L throng,
“is a very gratifying experience indeed.”

Carter was the keynote speaker four
years ago at the Washington and Lee
Mock Convention that named Sen. Ed-
ward M. Kennedy—which turned out to
be only the second wrong prediction the
students have made in eight Democratic
Mock Conventions. Sen. George Mc-

1

Mock Convention

 

Govern won the nomination at the real
Democratic convention two months later.

No “Stop Carter” drive materialized
during the Mock Convention, and sup-
porters of former Vice President Hubert
H. Humphrey—on whom such a move-
ment is still expected to focus if anti-
Carter forces agree to make a serious ef-
fort to block Carter’s nomination—threw
their support to the former Georgia gov-
ernor on the second ballot.

On the first ballot, Carter drew his
most substantial support from the South,
where his only serious competition came
from Wallace, and from the Midwest,
where Sen. Henry Jackson of Washing-
ton, Rep. Morris Udall of Arizona, Wal-
lace, and Humphrey received smatterings
of delegate votes,

In all, Carter captured majorities in
24 of the convention’s 52 delegations on
the first ballot—but only two, New Jer-
sey and Ohio, were from large, industrial,
Northern states.

Of the 10 largest delegations—which
accounted for more than half the conven-
tion voting strength—Carter carried only
three on the first ballot, though he show-
ed considerable strength in most of them
as they split their votes among Carter,
Jackson, Udall, and favorite sons Gov.
Edmund G. Brown Jr. of California and
Sen. Adlai E. Stevenson III of Illinois.

Udall, who ran a poor second on the
first ballot with just 360% delegate votes,
received most of his strength from Cali-
fornia, Massachusetts, Michigan, New Jer-
sey, New York, Pennsylvania, and _ his
home state, Arizona. He did not release
his delegates on the second ballot, and
almost all of them stayed with him even
after it became clear that Carter would
win comfortably.

Jackson, who came in third on the
first ballot, accumulated handfuls of votes
from many of the states in which Carter
had run well, together with the lion’s
share of delegates—though not a ma-
jority—in New York, where he had run
first in the real primary. Like Udall, he
did not release his delegates for the sec-
ond ballot, though he was less successful
in keeping them from climbing aboard
the Carter bandwagon, losing about a
third of his 331 first-ballot votes to Car-
ter as the roll call progressed. Jackson
had withdrawn from active campaigning

2

fl ¥ i vs ote

oe Per,
Ps

a ha
oo rts rN
ie

Little to smile about

 

 

Impassioned rhetoric

 

Virginia Atty. Gen. Andrew P. Miller Sen. Dale Bumpers of Arkansas

 

Bartering votes in exchange for the vice presidential nod

a week before the W&L Mock Conven-
tion.

Humphrey, who had just announced
that he would not become a candidate,
was not formally put into nomination by
the W&L convention, but drew 273 votes
on the first ballot even so, mostly from
his own Minnesota and from Pennsyl-
vania. On the second ballot, the Minne-
sota delegation cast a unanimous vote for
Carter.

For some weeks before the W&L Mock
Convention—even before the decisive
Pennsylvania and ‘Texas _ primaries—it
had seemed increasingly likely that Car-
ter could win the nomination if he could
muster the magic number of delegates on
the first, second or third ballot. Student
delegation leaders had been receiving
surprising reports of Carter’s strength
from their real-life counterparts as they
carried out their exhaustive pre-conven-
tion research.

The question became whether the
convention would go through those three
ballots without a winner—whether an in-
ability on Carter’s part to take the nomi-
nation swiftly would lead to the much-
talked-about “brokered” convention. ‘The
consensus was that Carter would probab-
ly win in two or three roll calls, but that
if he couldn’t do it then, he couldn’t do
it at all, and Humphrey would emerge
from a smoke-filled room as “The Man
Who.” Just before the Mock Convention,
a delegate poll conducted by WLUR-FM,
Washington and Lee’s campus radio sta-
tion, had indicated that Carter would
have more than 1,200 votes on the first
ballot—but that he had little prospect of
a first-ballot victory.

The first concrete evidence that bro-
kerage would play no part in 1976 came
on a credentials challenge just as the
Mock Convention opened Friday evening.
Carter’s forces sought to unseat the Jack-
son delegation from the Territories—by
itself, an issue of small consequence,
since the Territories have only 34 dele-
gate votes, just a shade over one per cent
of the total.

The result of binding primaries, state
caucuses, and conventions control dele-
gate votes on the nomination itself, but
not on such procedural matters—and the
Carter challenge succeeded. It was the
signal that he did indeed have the sup-

3

Mock Convention

 

port once the first-ballot restrictions on
delegates’ votes were removed.

The students tapped Minnesota Sen.
Walter F. Mondale to be Carter’s run-
ning-mate. News reports have indicated
that Mondale and Illinois Sen. Steven-
son are among Carter’s top choices for
the vice presidential nomination in an
effort to draw the support of labor and of
the traditionally liberal Northern states.

It was clear throughout the Mock
Convention balloting that the [Illinois
delegation, which has been in close, al-
most constant contact with real Illinois
delegates and Democratic party leaders,
has been assured that Stevenson would in
fact receive the nomination at the real
convention in exchange for Chicago
Mayor Richard Daley’s second-ballot sup-
port of Carter.

ABC-TV reporter Bettina Gregory,
however, said student delegation leaders
had told her that Carter appears to have
promised the vice presidential nod to
Mondale and Stevenson both—in an at-
tempt to woo Humphrey supporters by
naming his Minnesota colleague, as well
as to win the delegates Daley controls.

The W&L Mock Convention has
never made a serious try at predicting
the nominee for the number-two slot on
the ticket—and in fact has never once
guessed correctly.

Sidelights

Mock Conventions are a little bit like
Christmas trees. Everybody always thinks
this year’s is the best ever.

And with Mock Conventions, at
least, they're probably always right. Each
one really does seem to be better than the
last. The parade is bigger and the floats
more spectacular; there are more flags
and balloons and bunting in the Con-
vention Hall, more reporters and photo-
graphers, more vice presidential nomina-
tions (and more outrageous ones)—and
above all, more of the research and
realism that have made W&L’s histori-
cally the most accurate and most fun col-
lege convention in the nation.

The parade set the tone for the fun
part of Washington and Lee’s 16th Mock

4

Crowd watched parade along flag-lined streets

* Sunil

 

-.

connec Nae sia

Dancing Lobsterettes

Colorado float popped its top

.

ta

 

Little Rhody’s mock shark

Convention. The [Illinois delegation
labeled its float “Land of Lincoln and
Mayor Daley.” The float representing
tiny Rhode Island, “the Ocean State,”
consisted of an appropriately tiny Jaws-
like shark. Nevada’s was casinos and
Frank Sinatra. Wyoming towed—what
elserp—a yellow stone. Colorado built a
gigantic Coors beer can—skiing. Not to be
outdone, another state’s float proclaim-
ed: “Gerald Ford skis in Colorado, but
Robert E. Lee skiied in New Hampshire.”

Everyone’s favorite, though, including
the judges’, was the gaily decorated float
from Kansas, “‘the Land of Oz’’—complete
with Wizard, a wagonload of red-cheeked
Munchkins (area kindergarien pupils,
who were out of school for the day),
Tin Man, Straw Man, Cowardly Lion,
and, to be sure, Dorothy herself, authen-
tic in a W&L sort of way right down to
her ruby-red Topsiders (older alumni,
read: ‘‘spats’’).

No parade would be complete with-
out marching bands, of course, and the
Mock Convention had six of them—one,
which took first prize in that competition,
coming from Gloucester, N. J., just for
the W&L extravaganza.

The whole town went all out for the
parade, as it always does. The city sus-
pended street-construction work for the
parade (Lexington is in the middle of
burying all the utility lines in the down-
town area, installing a storm-drain sys-
tem, and rebuilding all the streets and
sidewalks.) Ihe Retail Merchants As-
sociation and the W&L Mock Convention
steering committee chipped in together
to buy big American flags to be hung
from every light post in town. ‘Thousands
of townsfolk began lining up along the
parade route long before it stepped off.
(W&L Mock Convention parades are the
only parades in the world with a reputa-
tion for being even approximately on
time.) Even the weather cooperated, and
although rain had been predicted as a
near-certainty that day, it never came.

There seemed to be almost as many
real politicians at the Mock Convention
as mock ones—from Lexington Mayor
Charles F. Phillips Jr. to two United
States Senators. The two men who are
battling for the Democratic nomination
to run for governor in Virginia next year
were both present, former Lieut. Gov.

5

Mock Convention

 

Henry Howell and current Atty. Gen.
Andrew P. Miller. Howell was the grand
parade marshall, and Miller, the highest-
ranking elected Democrat in the state,
gave an official welcome to the student
delegates on behalf of the Common-
wealth.

Sen. William Proxmire of Wisconsin,
the keynote speaker, delivered what one
real-life reporter covering the Mock Con-
vention described as “mainly a partisan
attack on Republicans in general and
the Ford administration in particular.”
That didn’t sit well with a good many
W&L students who are card-carrying Re-
publicans the other 51 weeks of the year,
and they reacted with good-natured vigor
in a way Proxmire hardly seemed to
have been ready for. (Calvin Coolidge’s
name, which Proxmire brought up with
the intention of reminding his audience
how shallow Republican policies have
always been in the eyes of Democrats,
drew more applause and fewer hisses
than did John F. Kennedy’s, whom Prox-
mire meant to evoke as the zenith of
political enlightenment. When Proxmire
lamented that there are only 11 female
members of Congress, some of the stu-
dents gave the remarks a standing ova-
tion, and a look came over the keynoter’s
face that reporters charitably characteriz-
ed as one of “puzzlement.” The Wash-
ington Star man wrote the next day that
it seems the “W&L student body considers
the Democratic party a joke, if not a
positive evil.”) But when his speech was
over and “On Wisconsin” started playing,
the standing ovation the Mock Conven-
tion gave him was enthusiastic and
friendly.

U.S. Rep. Donald W. Riegle Jr. of
Michigan followed Proxmire, and—in con-
trast to the keynoter’s undeviating parti-
sanship—used the occasion to slam both
major parties and big government in gen-
eral as the collective handmaidens of
special interests. The audience leapt to its
feet frequently, and the youthful, shirt-
sleeved Republican-turned-Democrat was
the hit of the evening.

The South was heard from the follow-
ing morning, as the serious business of
nominating a presidential candidate was
about to begin. Sen. Dale Bumpers of
Arkansas delivered a “unity address,” and
—perhaps drawing a lesson from the ex-

6

Platform

X ee ‘

oo

 

 

debate dragged on and on...

 

 

SEIS EN ae a 3
Lexington’s own Munchkins

 

- . and not everyone stayed awake

 

 

Frantic telephone activity between ballots

Pi

After the votes were in, only Carter survived the trash heap.

 

perience of his Wisconsin colleague the
previous evening—departed substantially
from his prepared text and avoided much
specific criticism of the GOP, giving an
upbeat pep talk instead.

The moment the actual nominations
began, the thousand student delegates
were all business, and all Democrats.
They'd invested too much time and
energy in preparation to do anything else.
They had been in frequent contact with
their authentic counterparts in each real
delegation and on each Democratic hope-
ful’s staff, and in fact stayed in touch
throughout the Mock Convention itself.

Thanks mostly to a $12,500 grant from
the Hatton W. Sumners Foundation of
Dallas, the mock delegates this year could
afford to undertake more research by far
than any convention before. There were
15 special telephones, for instance, just
off the convention floor for state chair-
men to use during and between roll-call
votes, and they were under no strain to
cut off an information source just because
three minutes had expired and the long-
distance telephone budget couldn’t pay
for a longer call.

That’s not to say the roll calls didn’t
have their moments of well-placed
buffoonery. (The Mock Convention is
too realistic for that.) When it came time
to cast votes, Utah, for instance, became
“the land of the Great Salt Lake, Robert
Redford and polygamy.” New Jersey was
“the permanent home of Jimmy Hoffa.”
Kansas boasted of being ‘the birthplace
of Vivian Vance, John Cameron Swayze
and not much else.”

And similarly, the whole vice presi-
dential nominating process, which eventu-
ally selected Minnesota Sen. Walter F.
Mondale by acclamation—but not before
votes were cast for almost everyone and
everything else, from Patty Hearst to half
the professors at W&L, from Secretariat
to a three-legged dog, a campus pet nam-
ed Tripod. There was a vote for Gladys
Knight and a vote for the Pips (older
alumni, read: “Guy Lombardo,” “the
Royal Canadians”), one for Jack Daniels,
another for the Godfather, others for
Richard M. Nixon, Elvis Presley, Mr.
Magoo, Capt. Kirk (of Star Trek on tele-
vision), Muhammed Ali, and even a cou-
ple for Mary Hartman, Mary Hartman
(one each).

by Jan Shivel

Law women:
Bringing a
diversity of
perspective

When women first enrolled in the
Washington and Lee School of Law in
1972, little fanfare accompanied their
arrival. After all, the way a person
studies law has nothing to do with gen-
der; it’s strictly professional in nature—
and so no curricular changes were neces-
sary.

Since those pioneers arrived (and six
of them received their law degrees last
spring—becoming, among other distinc-
tions, the first female members of the
W&L Alumni Association), dozens more
have arrived, bringing intelligence,
charm, and wit to Tucker Hall.

Roy L. Steinheimer Jr., dean of the
School of Law, believes women have
“enriched the quality of our student
body. They bring a different point of
view to classroom discussions which, of
course, benefits the entire class,” Stein-
heimer remains concerned with broaden-
ing the scope of the law school by re-
cruiting a more diversified student body.

The 30 women students who studied
law at W&L this year had backgrounds as
varied as those of their fellow students.
Some graduated from coeducational
schools; others attended women’s col-
leges such as Sweet Briar and Agnes
Scott; some transferred to W&L from
other law schools. They came from over
a dozen states in every region of the
country. And like their male counter-
parts, each has a different reason for
wanting to learn and practice law—and
each had a different reason for choosing
W&L. And clearly, the School of Law and
the University are richer for their choice.

A few of the female faces a casual
visitor encountered this year in Tucker
Hall. ...

8

 

Deborah Susman

Deborah Susman, who graduated in
June, came all the way from Seattle by
way of the University of Washington.

She is trim, concise, articulate. She
calls herself a ““word-worker” who wants
to help people. In three years with the
Lexington Legal Aid Association, she
learned much about human nature and
human problems. Her aim is a career in
public service—perhaps with a legal-
services clinic or a group health hospital.

While most of Susman’s classmates
were searching for jobs, she devoted her
time to studies and her duties as execu-
tive editor of the Washington and Lee
Law Review.

She enjoyed Lexington, particularly
the semi-rural living available here.

She says she developed a feeling for the
countless generations and continuity
that are a part of Virginia—‘Now I can
better understand the fables associated
with the state.”

She believes it is beneficial to at-
tend classes with men and quickly adds
that the W&L law teachers are very broad-
minded in their treatment of women
students. “They're sex-blind,” she says.
Many men may not like competing with
women in the classroom, she thinks,
but it is valuable preparation for both.
“After all, life is filled with men stum-
bling over women and women stumbling
over men. We may as well get used to
gy

 

Kathy Bishop

Kathy Bishop is a second-year stu-
dent from Charlottesville. She was vice-
president of the Student Bar Association
and a member of the Law Review and
combines her undergraduate major in
psychology with law by participating in
the legal-aid program at Western State
Hospital. She prefers “the clinical
aspect of getting into the law office and
working with people” to the drudgery of
the research involved in writing for
the law review.

She wants to concentrate on criminal
law in a small firm in a small town—
but wants to continue doing legal-aid
work because ‘“‘someone should protect
the interests of the ‘little man’.”

After studying at Duke University,
she chose Washington and Lee because
she wanted to study at a smaller law
school.

 

Pat Thursland

Pat Thursland comes from the Uni-
versity of Connecticut where she took
her degree in English literature. When
considering law schools, she looked for
a small private school after her ex-
perience in a large state university. She
wanted “‘to see a new part of the
country . . . with a milder climate.”
After the first difficult year of law
school, she has settled down into a
happy existence here. “I like the fact
that W&L is small enough that people
get to know you personally. We watch
out for one another,” she says.

A moot court finalist, ‘Thursland
participated in the International Moot
Court Mid-Atlantic Regional Competi-
tion in New Jersey this spring. She and
her teammates received a second place for
best brief. On campus, she writes for the
Law News and actively recruits more
women for the law school. As co-chairman
of the Admissions Recruitment Com-
mittee, she works on posters and pam-
phlets—to be distributed in undergradu-
ate schools—designed to attract women to
Washington and Lee.

As for her professional plans, she is
definite about what she doesn’t want.
“I am wary of being forced into tradi-
tional female law areas like domestic
relations, estates and taxes. I would pre-
fer general practice instead. I like that
varied pace of work better.”

 

Pamela Rogers

After working two years as a pro-
duction assistant with South Carolina
educational television, Pamela Rogers en-
rolled in law school because “I want to
be my own boss.” She’s interested in
environmental law and would like to use
her law degree to help shape the course
of its development.

Rogers is one of 12 lay members
on the National Advisory Council for
Continuing and Extension Education.

In this capacity she attends meetings
twice a year and reviews educational
projects designed for people outside
the academic world.

From Manning, S.C., Rogers graduat-
ed from Agnes Scott College in De-
catur, Ga.

 

Harriet Dorsey

While Harriet Dorsey was investigat-
ing law schools, she and her husband,
Glenn, visited Lexington. Harriet is
from Illinois and Glenn is from West
Virginia. He was the first to suggest
Washington and Lee to her. They liked
the town and they liked the campus—
particularly “the dogs running on the
front lawn and all over the place;
it seemed friendly.” So they decided on
Lexington—Harriet to study law and
Glenn to open the town’s first bicycle
shop.

This was Dorsey’s last year in law
school. She was president of the Women
Law Students Organization, the student
co-ordinator of the Alderson Legal As-
sistance Program, which provides legal
aid to the inmates of the female federal
reformatory in West Virginia, and a
contributor to the Washington and Lee
Law Review. She was rewarded for her
efforts this year by election to mem-
bership in Who’s Who in American
Colleges and Universities.

She took the Virginia Bar exam in
February and plans to establish a pri-
vate practice in Roanoke or Blacksburg.
Dorsey and another law student, Marilyn
Buhyoff, are talking about establishing
a joint general practice with particular
emphasis on environmental law and sex
discrimination.

 

Nan Robertson

Nan Robertson—outrageous! Editor-
in-chief of the Law News, the law school
newspaper. Famous for her ‘‘Fishbowl”
column that lambastes, pokes fun at, and
bursts the pretentiousness of faculty and
students alike. Queen of intramural
sports. She was talked into wrestling
last spring because no one else qualified
in her weight class. She won several
matches by default when her male op-
ponents demurred from grappling with a
woman and quickly lost the two she
actually wrestled—overall record of 7
wins-2 losses.

Background: Sweet Briar College—
erstwhile horse lover and rider. Now
football fanatic—stayed at school over
Thanksgiving vacation to work on two
papers—wound up watching football
games instead. Then had to stay in
Lexington over Christmas to write the
papers she had postponed.

She decided on law because .

“T didn’t know what else to do.” This

fall she will try her hand at independence
in Montgomery, Ala., where she has a
job with the attorney general’s office.

10

Teresa Johnson

Teresa Johnson, a June graduate,
was director of the Lexington Legal Aid
Association. Johnson grew up in Abing-
don, Va., and attended undergraduate
school at Mary Washington College,
earning a degree in political science.
She plans to practice law in Southwest
Virginia and chose W&L because she
felt it would give her a more thorough
grounding in Virginia law.

Johnson wants to continue her
work in legal aid. She has benefited
from that work in many ways—“I get a
great deal of satisfaction by helping
people who can’t help themselves. I’ve
learned how to explain the law to people
so that they can understand it. On the
other hand, the situations I encounter
have taught me to evaluate information
and to choose the best solution for
clients. Legal action is not always the
answer to their problems.”

 

     

iB

Deborah Johnson

Deborah Johnson, a second-year stu-
dent from Huntsville, Ala., was a mem-
ber of Washington and Lee’s highly
successful national moot court team.
This past fall, she and her two team-
mates, Bill Braaksma and Norm Frink,
traveled to the regional competition in
Winston-Salem, N.C., where they placed
second. Johnson was singled out as the
Best Oral Arguer. In early December,
they traveled to the national competi-
tion in New York, winning their first
match but losing their second to Duke
University, which went on to win the
overall competition.

The moot court question, an anti-
trust problem, increased Johnson’s in-
terest in corporate work. Before begin-
ning law school, she planned to go into
legal-aid work. But her new interest has
altered that original scheme. “I get up-
set with the law sometimes. It doesn’t
seem fair in many instances. But I like
antitrust law and agree with it. I still
plan to do my share of legal aid, but
now I am leaning toward a career in
corporate work—where I see each case
as being different and a major challenge.”

Johnson chose W&L over other law
schools because of its rural location and
good reputation. “I thought a smaller
law school wouldn’t be as high-pressure
as most large schools. When it came
down to a choice between New York
City and Lexington, I chose W&L.”

Foremost in the field and the classroom,

Wa&L's Phillips is the compleat professor

There seems to be only one thing
Chuck Phillips will never be: low pro-
file.

He has taught economics at Wash-
ington and Lee since 1959, coming
straight from Harvard, where he received
his Ph.D. He’s mayor of Lexington. Na-
tional president of Omicron Delta Epsi-
lon, the honor fraternity for economics
students. President-elect of the Virginia
Association of Economists, Member of the
blue-ribbon White House panel to re-
view the nation’s policy toward gambling;
member of a similiar commission in Vir-
ginia. Member of the Virginia Republi-
can State Central Committee. Consultant
to many of the nation’s leading utility
firms and regulated industries, Frequent
“expert witness’ in state regulatory-
agency utility-rate cases throughout the
country. Participant in countless semi-
nars on regulation. Trustee of his prep
school, Hebron (in Maine). Prolific au-
thor—The Economics of Regulation
(1963, 1969); Bank Mergers and Regula-
tory Agencies (1964); Competition in the
Synthetic Rubber Industry (1963); more
than 30 scholarly articles, including the
much-reprinted ‘“‘What’s Wrong With
Profit Maximization?”

Rigorous and popular teacher.

He’s one of the foremost authorities
in the field of government regulation
of business—and, it almost has to go with-
out saying, one of the most well-organized
individuals around.

He estimates he traveled some 62,000
miles last year—yet rarely misses a class.
(When he does, it’s generally reschedul-
ed.) The Nevada Public Service Com-
mission rearranged its agenda on one
occasion so Phillips could testify before
it without having to miss a class. This
spring, to take another example, he flew
to Ann Arbor on a Friday to teach in a
special seminar at the University of
Michigan, flew to South Dakota the next
day to testify in a rate case before that
state’s utility commission, flew back to
Michigan to meet with the same semi-
rar, then flew back to Lexington in

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr.

 

time to meet his W&L class on schedule.

No efficiency expert is needed to
tell Chuck Phillips how to use his time
more wisely. In April, he was scheduled
to participate in a panel in Kansas City
on utility pricing for executives of the
National Rural Electric Cooperatives As-
sociation; so a meeting of Washington
and Lee’s Kansas City-area alumni was
planned for the same weekend so he
could visit with and talk to them while
he was in the neighborhood.

He seems to be everywhere—and, what
is most frustrating, never seems to be pre-
occupied or in a rush. He’s always at
W&L’s lacrosse and basketball and _ foot-
ball games. Students always find him in
the office. Citizens always find him at
Lexington City Council meetings. He’s

 

always at home with his wife and three
young children (in order: Marge, Chip,
Susan and Ann)—he’s hardly like the
current candidate for national office of
whom it’s said he carves out 15-minute
segments in his schedule every day or so
for the family (but that candidate, after
all, is a Democrat, which Chuck Phillips
vigorously is not).

On campus, in addition to teaching
a full course load, Phillips has developed
an innovative program in the respon-
sibility of corporations in modern society,
incorporating views of business, ethics,
sociology and administration. The new
program, which was inaugurated this
spring with a three-credit course and will
be expanded next year to include a three-
day on-campus conference attended by
corporate executives and others, is spon-
sored by a grant from the Lilly Endow-
ment of Indianapolis, which also sup-
ports the University’s programs in legal,
medical and journalistic ethics (the Pro-
fessions in Society program),

‘This summer he will conduct a special
three-day seminar for newspaper execu-
tives on utility costs; that workshop, to
be held at Washington and Lee, is spon-
sored by the Southern Newspaper Pub-
lishers Association. And Phillips will di-
rect another of the annual week-long
symposia for top utility executives and
commissioners of state regulatory agencies
which have been co-sponsored since 1973
by Washington and Lee and the Chesa-
peake & Potomac Telephone Co.

All that activity, of course, has to af-
fect a professor’s teaching performance—
and in the case of Chuck Phillips, it’s
clearly for the better. His standards are
exacting, but W&L men rate him as one
of their best teachers. More than 40 stu-
dents registered for Government and
Business last term; the course had to be
divided into two sections. It helps, after
all, to hear it from a professor who hasn't
just read the book, but who wrote it—
who has been there himself and is going
back again.

R.S.K.

11

1976 Distinguished Alumnus Awards go
to Dr. Thomas, B. F. Fiery, L. P. Brown

Distinguished Alumnus Awards were
conferred this year upon three outstand-
ing Washington and Lee alumni: Dr.
John Newton Thomas, ’24, of Richmond,
rector emeritus of the W&L Board of
‘Trustees; Benjamin F. Fiery, ’13, of Cleve-
land, Ohio, a leading corporate lawyer;
and L. Palmer Brown III, ’30, of Mem-
phis, Tenn., president of L. P. Brown Co.,
Inc., a major supply firm to the cotton in-
dustry.

The awards were announced at the
annual meeting of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association in Lee Chapel on
May 8. Outgoing Alumni President C.
Royce Hough, ’59, of Winston-Salem,
N.C., presented the award to Dr. Tho-
mas, who was the only award recipient
who could be present. Dean Edward C.
Atwood of the School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics read the citation
accompanying Dr. Thomas’ award. Fiery
and Brown will receive their awards at
a later ceremony.

Dr. Thomas was a member of the
Board of Trustees from 1938 until his re-
tirement in 1973, when he was named
rector emeritus. He continues to play an
extremely active role in Washington and
Lee affairs. He was professor of sys-
tematic theology at Union Theological
Seminary from 1940 until he retired in
1974.

Dr. ‘Thomas was a Phi Beta Kappa
graduate of W&L. He earned his M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees from the University
of Edinburgh and his divinity degree
from Union Theological Seminary in
1930, the year he was ordained as a
Presbyterian minister. He taught reli-
gion and Bible literature at Hollins Col-
lege from 1933 to 1935, when he became
pastor of Second Presbyterian Church in
Charleston, S.C. From 1938 to 1940, he
was pastor of Grace Covenant Presby-
terian Church in Richmond and in 1964
was an Official observer for the Presby-
terian Church at Vatican II in Rome.

When Dr. Thomas retired as W&L
rector, the Board of Trustees described
him in a resolution as one of “a small

12

number whose intellect and perception
and humanity have gently shaped the
character and soul of the University.”
His wife, Nancy White Thomas, has
long been active in prison rehabilitation
work in Richmond and has written two
books derived from her experiences—A
Year in Jail and Five Years in Jail.
Fiery has been a prominent attorney
in Cleveland for 60 years. He was the
private secretary of Newton D. Baker,
Secretary of War under President Wood-
row Wilson, during the Paris Peace Con-

3

   

ginia Biechele, and this autumn they
will celebrate their 52nd wedding anni-
versary.

Brown, an honors graduate of W&L,
is a former national president of the Na-
tional Multiple Sclerosis Society and
past national convention chairman of the
American Red Cross. In 1960, he was
named the Outstanding Citizen of the
Year by the Memphis Civitan Club.

He is a former president of many
civic organizations in Memphis, includ-
ing the Methodist Hospital, Future Mem-

 

i

‘
-—*
a
Cad
Ca

* I

Dr. John Newton Thomas is congratulated by Dean Edward C. Atwood after receiving

his Distinguished Alumnus Award. At right is C. Royce Hough, retiring president

of the Alumni Association.

ference following World War I. Baker,
also a Washington and Lee graduate, was
a distant relative of Fiery.

Fiery was instrumental in the growth
of the Cleveland law firm of Baker, Hos-
tetler & Patterson, which now has 129
lawyers, including 15 in its Washington
office. He was at one time general coun-
sel of the American Baseball League.
Though he formally retired in 1964, he re-
mains active in the affairs of the law
firm. He is a former trustee of the Cleve-
land Law Library Association and the
Cleveland Clinic Foundation, which
elected him a Distinguished Fellow.

Fiery is married to the former Vir-

phis, Inc., Downtown Association of
Memphis, and Family Service of Mem-
phis. In 1958, he was president of the
Memphis Cotton Festival.

His past and current directorships
and trusteeships include Southwestern
University, Porter-Leath Orphanage,
Sunshine Home for Aged Men, Memphis-
Shelby County unit of the American Can-
cer Society, the Memphis Public Library,
LeBonheur Children’s Hospital, Shelby
United Neighbors, the Mid-South Medi-
cal Center Council, and Memphis Health
and Welfare Planning Council.

Brown is married to the former Octa-
via Evans, and they have one daughter.

  

William P. Boardman, director

Thomas B. Branch III, ’58, of Atlanta
has been elected president of the Alumni
Board of Directors, succeeding C. Royce
Hough, ’59, of Winston-Salem, N. C.
Branch took office at the annual meet-
ing of the Alumni Association on May 8
in Lee Chapel. The Association meeting
coincided with Spring Class Reunions.

Branch is a member of the law firm of
Greene, Buckley, DeRieux and Jones and

 

Branch heads

Alumni
Association

 

Thomas B. Branch III, president

has been serving the University recently
as a Development Staff Associate.

Three new members of the Alumni
Board were elected: Samuel C. Dudley,
58, of Richmond, president of the Dud-
ley Tire Co.; William P. Boardman, ’63,
’69L, of Columbus, Ohio, an attorney;
and Philip R. Campbell, ’57, ’59L, of
Tulsa, Okla., an attorney.

They will serve four-year terms. ‘They
replace the three men who completed
their terms: Hough, Vernon W. Holle-
man, 758, of Washington, D. C., and
Theodore M. Kerr, 57, of Midland,
Texas.

Elected to a two-year term as alumni
representative on the University Commit-
tee on Intercollegiate Athletics was John
A. Wolf, ’69, ’°72L, of Baltimore, Md., an
attorney. He succeeded Charles R. Beall,
56, of Martinsburg, W. Va.

Other new Alumni Board officers
elected were: J. Thomas Touchton, ’60, of
Tampa, Fla., an investment broker, vice

 

John A. Wolf, athletic committeeman

and
Charles C. Stieff II, 45, of Baltimore,
treasurer, succeeding Kerr, Stieff is execu-
tive vice president of the Stieff Co., silver-
smiths.

president, succeeding Holleman;

At the conclusion of the meeting,
Branch presented a plaque to Hough
in recognition of his “outstanding lead-
ership and dedicated service as president
of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.”

13

Spring
Reunion
Faces

1976

 

Edward Seitz and Hugh Bonino, both ’36

A large number of alumni returned to the campus for Spring
Reunions on May 7-8 and found that Washington and Lee was
where the action was. The Mock Convention, an official Bi-
centennial event, was the main attraction. Some alumni at-
tended every session; a few sat among the delegates on the
convention floor and joined the deliberations. And there was
much more: receptions, cocktail parties on the terrace of the
Alumni House, reunion dinners, the annual meeting of the
Alumni Association, an alumni luncheon, the annual John
Randolph Tucker Lecture, delivered this year by Erwin N.
Griswold, former solicitor general of the United States, and
finally W&L’s hard-fought lacrosse battle with Cortland State,
which W&L won 13-10. The Reunion Classes were 1926, 1936,
1951, 1961, and 1966, together with the Old Guard, members
of classes that graduated more than 50 years ago. The relaxed
mood that prevailed among the returning alumni is evident
in these pictures made by University Photographer Sally
Mann.

14

 

 

Alumni Directors Charles C. Stieff II, "45,
and Robert M. White II, ’38

i er
Le
2

A

Fontaine Gilliam, ’51, is greeted by Alumni Director Edwin
J. Foltz, 40L. In background is David D. Johnson, ’21, ’23L.

Si

 

Hugh Sproul, ’26

          
 
  

 

 
 

 
    

OO
ee

    

a

 

     

 

      

      
   
   
  

   
  
  

 

+
ae F

 

  
  
 

   
      
       
 
  
     
   

   

  
    

     
      
  
  

     

sii, te: y
: a ee ye
ate ae
see

      
    

iki

      
    

    

    

Ee |

               

 

 
  

i
ae

 

     

     
   
    

    

ft
_
_
hl)

 

aa

     
      

    
 

  

   
     

      
  

 

      

et
Bee
ne
: SEs
ih

      

 

 

A
Sarg

 

     
  
   
  

    

  

:
ae

7

    

a
se
ee

 
  
   

  

e

 

 

3

 

oe

      

 

=

 
  

       

 

 

 

   

    

   

     

 

 

  

 
 

 

 

     

 

 

 

     

     
   

 

 

   

 

-
- a - 7
: aoe
2 tle.
’ -
-
BS
an :
. - a a
7 .
7
7 a
a : : - /
a - -
-
cr a
Co
-
- - -
-
*
-
/ -
’
: :
a .
; :
. - ;
oe
- a .
; oe
+
OO
a -
# si a -
a - OO
ee ; a :
-
é - > - - a <
_ a re
* ae -
7 7
- -
- > 7 -

         

 

Gel news briefs

 

» Com oe zy 3
. * MT ee ON, sada 8
MB Ze. epee ate at C/E IIE Sass Pee ee

Seer a

The archaeological excavation at the ruins of Liberty Hall
gains impetus from the “Earthwatch” program.

LIBERTY HALL ‘DIG’

GROWS IN IMPORTANCE

Cl Work on the archaeological excavation at the ruins of
Liberty Hall Academy will continue through the summer
again, with the added impetus this year of support by a na-
tionwide clearinghouse for field research expeditions, “Earth-
watch.” The excavation, entering its third year, is uncovering
valuable evidence about cultural and academic life at the end
of the 18th century.

The Liberty Hall ruins, at the west edge of W&L’s cam-
pus, constitute one of the few sites for this kind of “dig” that
have remained relatively undisturbed over the years. The
building was the center of the campus of Washington and
Lee’s predecessor institution from 1793 until it burned 10
years later.

In addition to the Earthwatch connection, which allows
non-professionals to participate, college students can take part
once again in the dig for academic credit through Virginia
Military Institute’s summer session.

In both instances, the dig will familiarize the participants
with instrumental surveying, geological analysis, photography,
drawing and identification of artifacts, and excavation tech-
niques. Director of the ongoing project, a formal element in
Washington and Lee’s observance of the American Bicenten-
nial, is Dr. John M. McDaniel, assistant professor of an-
thropology.

16

 

 

CEREMONIES AT W&L

HONOR SCOTCH-IRISH FOREBEARS

) The chairman of North Ireland’s committee to mark the
American Revolution Bicentennial, Dr. Alan Burges, was the
honored guest this spring at a ceremony at Washington and
Lee University, the college which changed its name in 1776
to indicate its endorsement of independence from Great
Britain.

Dr. Burges—a noted biologist and vice chancellor of the
New University of Ulster—spoke at a luncheon and was honor-
ed by the University with a citation noting its Scotch-Irish
heritage.

Accompanying Dr. Burges from Northern-Ireland was Prof.
Edward Rodney Richey Green, director of the Institute of
Irish Studies at Queen’s University of Belfast.

The planning committee for the visit to Virginia by the
North Ireland representative was headed by Del. Lewis A.
McMurran. The chairman of the Virginia Independence Bi-
centennial Commission is Parke S. Rouse Jr. Both men are
graduates of Washington and Lee.

Among those who participated in the W&L ceremonies
honoring the Irish visitors was Dr. James G. Leyburn, dean
emeritus at Washington and Lee. Dr. Leyburn is the author
of the standard reference work, The Scotch-Irish, published in
1962. He taught at W&L from 1947 until retiring in 1972.

Also as part of the program, Dr. John M. McDaniel ad-
dressed the convocation on the topic of the Liberty Hall

 

In academic regalia for Scotch-Irish ceremony in Lee Chapel are
visitors Dr. Alan Burges and Prof. Edward Rodney Richey Green.

   

Dr. James G. Leyburn talks with Dr. James B. Patrick, professor
of chemistry at Mary Baldwin College, before program in
Lee Chapel.

ROCKBRIDGE GRANTS TOTAL

$84,000 LAST YEAR

ClWashington and Lee gave a total of $84,000 in the last aca-
demic year in automatic tuition grants to undergraduate stu-
dents whose families live in Lexington, Rockbridge County,
and Buena Vista.

The grants were made to 40 Rockbridge area students un-
der W&L’s long-standing policy of providing major tuition
reductions to sons of local families, In the past decade, W&L
has given a total of $491,250 in the special Rockbridge grants
to area students.

Every full-time undergraduate whose parents live in Rock-
bridge receives the grant. Few other private colleges have
tuition-reduction plans designed to benefit residents of the
area in which they are located, and there is no program as
old as W&L’s or which provides so large a grant to each re-
cipient.

APPLICATIONS RISE 12 PER CENT

FOR ADMISSION TO LAW SCHOOL

O Applications for admission to law school next September
at W&L rose by 12 per cent this year over the number a
year ago.

In all, 1,177 applications were received for 1976, compared
with last year’s total of 1,044, according to Dean Roy L.
Steinheimer Jr. The 1976 figures translate into almost 11
applications for each of the 110 places in September’s en-
tering class.

Washington and Lee’s 110-member first-year law class
next fall will be almost half again as large as the Univer-
sity’s previous first-year law classes, which have averaged 80
students. The increase, in the planning for several years, will
be possible because the law school moves into its new $7-
million home, Lewis Hall, over the summer.

Steinheimer reported the entering class in September will
include students from 30 states who have attended about 60
different undergraduate colleges.

He said the overall quality of the 1976 applicants, judged
by Law School Admission Test scores and undergraduate
grade-point averages, “is the best we’ve ever had.” He said
Washington and Lee led the list of undergraduate colleges at-
tended by those who will enroll next fall in the W&L law
program.

Currently, the W&L law school has a student population of
240, with about 80 students in each class. With the new law
building, however, total enrollment will increase to between
330 and 350. The increase will be gradual, with about 110
students accepted each year until the law school is brought up
to full strength in 1978.

As the student body increases in size, the faculty will be
increased proportionately as well, maintaining W&L’s tradi-
tional 1:17 teacher-student ratio in the law school. (The na-
tional mean, according to the Association of American Law
Schools, is between 1:23 and 1:24.)

The gradual 100-student increase in the law school will
allow Washington and Lee to expand the faculty in line with
the increasing specialization demanded in contemporary legal
education without sacrificing the small-school, personal en-
vironment which characterizes the University.

THOMAS H. HUNTER ELECTED

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT

UA junior majoring in American history, Thomas H. Hunter
III of Charlotte, N.C., was elected president of the Washing-
ton and Lee student body for the 1976-77 year. Hunter won

63 per cent of the votes in what student election officials said
was the heaviest turnout in recent years.

During the past year Hunter was president of the junior
class, a freshman dormitory counselor, and chairman of the
North Carolina delegation to the Mock Convention. He is a
member of Phi Kappa Sigma.

 

Mrs. Philip Fullerton Howerton of Charlotte talks with Dr.
John Newton Thomas during a break in the symposium on
“Christian Faith in a Religiously Plural World.” Dr. Thomas
presided at the first session. The fund that sponsored the
symposium was established in memory of Mrs. Howerton’s
husband, a 1925 graduate of W&L.

THE ROLE OF CHRISTIANITY

IN A RELIGIOUSLY PLURAL WORLD

CO Reconciling the historic Christian doctrine of the ‘“‘uni-
versality of Christianity” with “the incurable religious plural-
ism of the world” was the focus of a three-day symposium this
spring at Washington and Lee.

The program brought leading religious thinkers of the
Buddhist, Hindu, Jewish and Muslim traditions to campus, as
well as Protestant and Catholic Christians, for a series of lec-
tures, response sessions, and special-topic seminars.

“All claims to [religious] universality [now] have to be re-
lated to the fact that no particular religion will be the sole
religion of humankind,” according to Dr. Donald G. Dawe in
the opening address. Dr. Dawe is professor of systematic theol-
ogy at Union Theological Seminary, Richmond.

The program, Dr. Dawe observed, “‘is part of the struggle to
make sense out of the Christian faith” in light of: two seem-
ingly contradictory factors—the Biblical direction to “go there-
fore and make disciples of all nations” (Matthew 28:19) on the
one hand, and the 20th-century recognition on the other hand
that the non-Christian world ‘gives every evidence of remain-
ing that way,” and that the earlier aim of “the universality
of Christianity . . . the conversion of all people . . . is not to
be the case.”

The symposium was sponsored by W&L under the Philip
Fullerton Howerton Fund, established in 1973 to support
special programs in the religion department.

(An article on the symposium will be carried in a later
issue of this magazine.)

PARKE ROUSE III NAMED
FULBRIGHT SCHOLAR
LU Parke S. Rouse III, a June graduate, has been awarded a
Fulbright Scholarship for postgraduate study—one of the most
coveted academic honors in the nation.

Rouse, a geology major, will study in Germany. He was

17

elected into membership in Phi Beta Kappa this year and is
vice president of Mu Beta Psi, the honorary music fraternity,
and a member of the Glee Club.

He is the son of Mr. and Mrs. Parke Rouse Jr. His father,
a 1937 Washington and Lee graduate, is executive director of
both the Virginia Independence Bicentennial Commission
and the Jamestown Foundation.

i =
Mrs. Catherine F. McDowell: law scholarship named in her honor.

SCHOLARSHIP FUND HONORS

LAW SCHOOL’S ‘MRS. MAC’

C1 A new full-tuition scholarship endowment has been estab-
lished in the School of Law to honor Mrs. Catherine Feland
McDowell, a secretary in the law school for 30 years.

Mrs. McDowell, secretary to five W&L law deans, retired
at the end of the current academic year.

The scholarship fund was created by the W&L Law School
Association, the W&L law alumni organization. Announce-
ment of the new fund was made during Law Day ceremonies
by Thomas B. Bryant III of Orangeburg, S.C., president of the
group.

Mrs. McDowell is the widow of the late Prof. Charles R.
McDowell Sr., a member of W&L’s law faculty from 1927 until
his death in 1968.

NEWS OF THE FACULTY

U Dr. William Webb Pusey III, head of the University’s
German department for a quarter-century, stepped down from
that post at the end of the school year to return to full-time
teaching. He was succeeded as department head by Prof. B. S.
Stephenson, who was acting head from 1960 to 1971 when Dr.
Pusey was dean of the College. Dr. Pusey was 65 this year, the
age when department heads must relinquish those duties.

18

 

O The National Science Foundation has made a $15,800
grant to Washington and Lee to support development of a
programming course in micro-processors. Dr. Robert A. Ro-
berts, head of the mathematics department, will direct the
two-year project. Working with him will be Drs. Robert B.
Brownell and Robert L. Wilson Jr., both associate professors
of mathematics, and Dr. Edward F. Turner Jr., professor of
physics and head of that department. Micro-processors, about
the size of a matchhead, can perform thousands of mathe-
matical and control functions almost instantaneously. They
have become the principal component in low-priced electronic
calculators and other such instruments, and their use is increas-
ing dramatically because of their flexibility and their extreme-
ly low cost. The NSF grant will permit development of a
sophomore-level course to teach students how to program
micro-processors—“‘their language and grammar,” according to
Dr. Roberts.

LU! Chemistry education at Washington and Lee was the topic
of a paper delivered this spring by Dr. John H. Wise, chemis-
try professor and department head, at the Centennial meeting
of the American Chemical Society in New York. Co-author of
the paper, “Chemical Education in the South,” was Dr. Es-
march S. Gilreath, professor emeritus of chemistry at W&L and
head of the department for 15 years.

CO) Two professors at Washington and Lee—Drs. S. Todd
Lowry and C. Westbrook Barrett—have been chosen by the Na-
tional Endowment for the Humanities to participate in special
two-month seminars this summer. Dr. Lowry, professor of
economics, will work at Princeton University; Dr. Barrett,
professor of Spanish, will study at Duke University. Both
programs, limited to 12 professors each, are designed to permit
the participants to work with eminent teachers in their fields
and to “sharpen their understandings and improve their
ability to convey those understandings to college students,”
according to the National Endowment.

C1 Dr. Lowry is also the author of the lead article in the spring
issue of The Journal of Economic Issues. His essay, “Bargain
and Contract Theory in Law and Economics,” also appears
in a new book of interpretive research articles, The Chicago
School of Political Economy, published by Michigan State Uni-
versi.y in conjunction with the Association for Evolutionary
Economics,

CL] Dr. Pamela Simpson, assistant professor of art history, par-
ticipated this winter in a symposium entitled “A Prospect of
Philadelphia, 1776-1976,” at the Independence National His-
toric Park in Philadelphia. The symposium was co-sponsored
by Temple University, the University of Pennsylvania, and
friends of the Park. Dr. Simpson spoke on Charles Grafley, the
Philadelphia sculptor who was the topic of her Ph.D. dis-
sertation.

O Prof. O. W. Riegel, the retired head of Washington and
Lee’s journalism department, was the principal speaker this
spring at Madison College’s annual journalism dinner. Riegel
directed his remarks at the quality of contemporary journa-
lism and his own fear that reporters seem frequently to be
“only dimly aware” of the real significance behind the news
they are covering.

OC The Cadet, a weekly newspaper edited last summer by
Capt. Thomas S. Catalano of Washington and Lee’s military
science department, won a “Copy Desk Award” for jour-
nalistic excellence from the U.S. Army Training and Doctrine
Command. It was one of only eight such awards presented to
ROTC publications, and was the second Catalano has won in
18 months. The Cadet was published for cadets in the aq.
vanced ROTC summer camp at Fort Bragg, N.C.

 

Erwin N. Griswold, former solicitor general of the United States,
relaxes before delivering the John Randolph Tucker Lecture.

VISITING LECTURERS AT W&L

IN RECENT MONTHS

C} Erwin N. Griswold, solicitor general of the United States
under Presidents Johnson and Nixon, delivered the annual
John Randolph Tucker Lecture in Law this spring as the
principal part of W&L’s observance of Law Day. Griswold,
who was dean of Harvard University’s law school before be-
coming second-in-command in the Justice Department, spoke
on the topic “Equal Justice Under Law.” His remarks will be
carried in a future issue of the Washington and Lee Law Re-
view.

C1 The dean of the Hofstra University law school, Monroe H.
Freedman, examined the question “Are There Ethical Limits
on Zealous Representation by Lawyers?” as part of the Uni-
versity’s program in legal ethics for undergraduates planning
law careers. Freedman, a well-known civil liberties lawyer,
brought the first successful suit seeking back pay for minority
employees who had been discriminated against in hiring and
promotion. The legal ethics program in which he participated
is an element in W&L’s unique Society and the Professions pro-
gram, sponsored by a grant from the Lilly Endowment.

C1 “The American Right To Counsel” was the subject of a lec-
ture by U.S. District Judge Robert R. Merhige this spring, in
a visit also sponsored by the Lilly-endowed legal ethics pro-
gram.

OC} William L. Zimmer III, president and chief executive officer
of A. H. Robins Co., the Richmond pharmaceutical manufact-
urer, spoke this spring on the topic “From Bar to Business” in
an appearance sponsored by W&L’s Black Law Students As-
sociation.

CL} James W. Head, a 1964 Washington and Lee graduate, re-
turned to the University to speak on the geology of planetary

surfaces, He received his Ph.D. in geology from Brown Uni-
versity in 1969, and is now an associate professor there. Head
has been a member of the NASA astronaut training team.
UA well-known journalist, Tony Sargent, an Atlanta-based
CBS News reporter, also returned to his alma mater this spring
to deliver a lecture. Sargent, a 1955 W&L graduate, was the
principal speaker at a seminar in education for working and
prospective journalists sponsored by the University’s chapter
of The Society of Professional Journalists/Sigma Delta Chi.
The symposium was part of the national SPJ/SDX Bicen-
tennial program to re-dedicate America’s historic sites in jour-
nalism. The first formal program for educating newsmen in
the liberal arts was conceived at Washington College under
Robert E. Lee (1865-70).

C1 H. Brad Westerfield, professor of political science at Yale
University and an authority in contemporary American rela-
tions with Britain and Australia, spoke on the topic “Com-
paring the Roots of Foreign Policy: Russia, China and Ameri-
ca” this spring.

C) George E. Carter, director of corporate budgets for Interna-
tional Business Machines (IBM), spent a week at Washington
and Lee as a Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellow. He took part
in classroom discussions in several fields—from commerce to
philosophy (in which he majored in college), and met in-
formally with students while in residence in the Lee House.
The Woodrow Wilson Fellows program, sponsored by a
grant from the Lilly Endowment, is designed to promote great-
er contact between the academic community and other sectors
of society. W&L is one of just three Virginia colleges designat-
ed to participate in the series.

CL! A distinguished biologist from the Galapagos Islands, Dr.
Craig MacFarland, was at Washington and Lee this spring to
discuss the effort which he heads to save the giant tortoise
from extinction. MacFarland is director of the Charles Darwin
Biological Centre in the Galapagos, off the coast of Ecuador.
His visit to Washington and Lee was sponsored jointly by the
biology department and the Smithsonian Institution.

U Carl Barfoed, manager of foreign rentals and development
programs for New York City’s World Trade Center, spoke at
W&L on that enterprise in May, A naturalized American citi-
zen who was born in Denmark, Barfoed has been a manager
for the New York Port Authority, Delta Steam Ship Lines,
and, since 1962, the World Trade Center itself, in the estab-
lishment of which he played a substantial role.

U The deputy clinical director for cancer treatment at the Na-
tional Cancer Institute, Dr. John L. Ziegler, spoke on “Ethical
Dilemmas in the Doctor-Patient Relationship” this spring as
part of Washington and Lee’s medical ethics program, spon-
sored by the Lilly Foundation.

U1 Also participating in the spring-term medical ethics pro-
gram was Dr. Harmon L. Smith, who visited the University for
a discussion of ‘““The Ethics of Behavior Modification.” Smith
is a professor of moral theology at Duke who has also under-
taken extensive research in medical ethics, particularly in the
field of neurology. He is the co-author with Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, director of the W&L professional ethics series, of the
text The Christian and His Decisions.

U1 Dr. David Little, professor of Christian and religious ethics
at the University of Virginia, was a guest speaker and dis-
cussion leader in May at a program on the topic “Comparative
Religious Ethics: St. Matthew, Theravada Buddhism, and the
Navajo Indians.” His visit to Washington and Lee was spon-
sored by the religion department as an extension of its sym-
posium earlier in the spring on “Christian Faith in a Re-
ligiously Plural World.”

19

 

Fred Graham Charles McDowell

Contact 1976

“Contact,” the annual student-sponsored symposium, brought a remarkable
variety of writers, journalists, and commentators to the campus this year. The
symposium stretched over a period of three weeks in March and began with
Fred Graham, Supreme Court and legal correspondent for CBS News, who
spoke on “The Impact of the Legal System.” President Robert E. R. Huntley
discussed honor in a lecture in Lee Chapel. Charles McDowell, Washington
correspondent for the Richmond Times-Dispatch and a 1948 W&L alumnus,
and Jeff MacNelly, Pulitzer prize-winning cartoonist for the Richmond News
Leader, held forth in a dual presentation on “Washington Wit.’’ McDowell re-
told anecdotes he had heard political candidates tell during the hectic New
Hampshire primary campaign. With a few deft strokes, MacNelly quickly sketch-
ed several of the presidential hopefuls, using an overhead projector to display
his work. Jimmy Breslin, author of How the Good Guys Finally Won, told
humorous and poignant stories about the Watergate intrigue, literary personali-
ties, and New York City. ‘Truman Capote, author and playwright, gave a reading
of his short childhood tale A Christmas Memory. George Plimpton, author and
professional dabbler, related several of his varied experiences in professional
athletics. John Barron, the senior editor of Reader’s Digest, finished up the
symposium with his talk on “American and Russian Intelligence Systems Today.”

Truman Capote Jimmy Breslin

20

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

Chapter News

 

1976 Lynchburg Citation is awarded
to Jim and Celeste Whitehead

The Lynchburg Citation—the highest
award conferred by a W&L alumni chap-
ter—went this year to Mr. and Mrs. James
W. Whitehead. The citation was pre-
sented to the Whiteheads at the Lynch-
burg chapter’s annual banquet on March
12. Henry M. Sackett III, ’64, chapter
president, made the presentation.

Whitehead is treasurer of Washing-
ton and Lee, secretary of the Board of
Trustees, and chairman of the Univer-
sity’s American Bicentennial Committee.
He and Mrs. Whitehead have been re-
sponsible for bringing the University’s
Reeves Collection of 18th- and 19th-cen-
tury Chinese Export Porcelain to a place
of nationwide significance among art con-
noisseurs.

It was largely through the White-
heads’ personal friendship with Mr. and
Mrs, Euchlin D. Reeves of Providence,
R. IL, that the 2,000-piece Reeves Collec-
tion came to Washington and Lee in
1967. They have catalogued and identifi-
ed the pieces in the collection and have
prepared many exhibitions of it through-
out the country. Primary among those ex-
hibitions is the current two-year nation-
wide tour of 200 pieces from the collec-
tion associated with the American Revo-
lution—a traveling display sponsored by
the Smithsonian Institution.

The Whiteheads were also the guid-
ing spirits behind the arrangement last
year under which Wamsutta Mills pro-
duced a series of domestic bedlinens call-
ed the “Liberty Hall Collection.” Wam-
sutta derived the designs from patterns
on several pieces from the Reeves Collec-
tion, and W&L has received more than
$60,000 to date in royalties from Wam-
sutta. Last year, “Porcelain Butterfly,”
one of the Liberty Hall designs, was list-
ed as the seventh-best selling pattern in
the Aiuerican textile industry. It was
chosen for ceremonial use at the White
House.

This year, Foreign Advisory Service, a
leading manufacturer of porcelain repro-
ductions, is marketing a number of actual-
size reproductions of Reeves Collection

 

Henry M. Sackett III (center), president of the Lynchburg chapter, presents

Citation to Mr. and Mrs. James W. Whitehead.

pieces under another contract developed
by Whitehead. The University also re-
ceives a significant royalty toward its edu-
cational operating budget under that ar-
rangement.

The citation recognizes the White-
heads’ “signal contributions to the en-
richment of life throughout the Uni-
versity Community in sensing opportuni-
ties for developing unique new dimen-
sions of fiduciary feasance through the
symbiosis of finance and fine arts. . . by
enhancing the aesthetic, cultural and ma-
terial value [of W&L’s art treasures]; in
strengthening the University’s image of
gentility and felicity by graciously open-
ing their home and their hearts to all
friends and patrons of Washington and
Lee; and in perpetuating the excellence
of the past and faithfully honoring tra-
dition while always remaining ‘not un-
mindful of the future.”

Whitehead is a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Tampa and received an honor-
ary doctorate from that institution in
1954. He has been associated with Wash-

ington and Lee since 1958 and became
treasurer in 1966. Mrs. Whitehead is the
former Celeste Dervaes, They have two
sons, James W. Jr., a ’58 graduate of
W&L, of Houston and Paul D. of Nash-
ville.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’46, pro-
fessor of English, was the principal speak-
er at the Lynchburg chapter meeting.

TULSA. Alumni from Tulsa and Okla-
homa City joined for cocktails and din-
ner on April 12 at the Summit Club on
the top floor of the Fourth National
Bank Building in Tulsa. Principal speak-
ers were Trustee John M. Stemmons, ’31,
of Dallas and Upton Beall, ’51, of Tyler,
‘Texas, a former member of the Alumni
Board of Directors and now a Develop-
ment Staff Associate. Alumni Secretary
Bill Washburn also attended. Stemmons
and Beall reported on the progress of the
University’s development efforts, and
Washburn showed slides of the campus.
Arrangements were made by E, Richard
Albert III, 63, and Dan W. Higgins Jr.,

21

Chapter News

 

69. Higgins was asked to serve as acting
president of the chapter for a while. ‘The
group was told of a need for more con-
centrated student recruitment in the area
in the years ahead.

NEW ORLEANS. A small group of
alumni gathered at the home of Mike
Christovich, ’76, on April 14, following
the Washington and Lee tennis meet
against Tulane University. Guests of
honor included members of the tennis
team and their coaches, Dennis Bussard
and Tom Sansonetti. The group was also
host to a number of students in the
area who have been admitted to Wash-
ington and Lee’s 1976 freshman class.
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn showed
color slides of the campus. Arrangements
for the stag reception were made by Rick
Christovich, ’68, New Orleans chapter
president, and his cousin, Mike. The
chapter thanked Mr. and Mrs. William
K. Christovich, Mike’s parents, for the
use of their home. Thirteen applicants
from the New Orleans area have been
accepted by W&L, and Rick Christovich
announced that a program is being ar-
ranged to honor those that decide to at-
tend W&L.

KANSAS CITY. Dr, Charles F. Phillips
Jr., professor of economics, and his wife
were guests of honor at a meeting at the
Saddle and Sirloin Club on April 20.
Dr. Phillips’ report on the University was
well received by an enthusiastic group of
alumni; his formal remarks were follow-
ed by a question-and-answer period.
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn showed
color slides of the campus. Recognized
at the meeting was Bill Ridge, one of the
students in the area who have been ac-
cepted by Washington and Lee. William
H. Leedy, ’49, made arrangements for the
meeting.

NEW YORK. The chapter engaged in
two activities during April. A reception
was held on April 13 at the Metropoli-
tan Club for young men in the area who

22

eo * ch j a 3

: RT) A - J

oS ‘gis SL r er
= Vee eh

if
ee

=

ies

 

nf

   

é we . <5

 
 

=

TULSA—Trustee John M. Stemmons (standing), E. R. Albert, 63, Mrs. Albert,

Dan Higgins Jr., 69, and Upton Beall, ’51.

 

KANSAS CITY—Gerald M. Lively, 38, and Mrs. Lively, (foreground), Bill S. Ridge,
incoming freshman, James Sunderland, ’50, and Mrs. Sunderland.

had applied for admission to W&L. Bill
Noell, coordinator of the Freshman Year,
and Van Pate, director of Student Finan-
cial Aid, presented a program which in-
cluded colored slides of the campus, ‘The
chapter is hopeful that many of the appli-
cants will accept admission to W&L.
Randy Wootton, ’64, arranged the recep-
tion. Two nights later, the chapter held a

Coaches Night Dinner at the Cattleman
Restaurant in Manhattan. The honored
guests were Jack Emmer, lacrosse coach,
and Walt Michaels, ’51, defensive coach
for the New York Jets. The W&L lacrosse
team was in the area for games against
Hofstra and C. W. Post. Coach Emmer
discussed the University’s lacrosse pro-
gram, and Michaels reminisced about

 

 
   

  

DALLAS—Toas
Mrs. LaRue, and Bill Biesel, ’75.

some of W&L’s notable football games.
A large group of alumni attended the din-
ner, which was arranged by Jasha Dra-
bek, ’53, chapter president.

TIDEWATER. An informal reception
was held April 14 at the Sheraton Inn in
Norfolk in honor of high school students
in the area who have been accepted for

ting the camera are Steven VanAm

burgh, °75,

admission to W&L in September. Several
W&L students, who were at home on
spring vacation, helped welcome the pro-
spective students, The result was a lively
discussion of current student life at W&L.
During a business session, the following
officers were named: David Shufflebar-
ger, 69, president; Richard C. Burroughs,
68, vice president; William H. Candler,

’66L, secretary; and J. Davis Reed III, ’60,
treasurer. Named chapter directors were:
Peter A. Agelasto III, ’62, Steven B. Sand-
ler, "70, Thomas V. Rueger, ’69, Charles
F. Tucker, ’51, Detlow Marthinson, ’56,
William P. Ballard Jr., ’°73, Dr. Charles
Devine Sr., 716, Townsend Oast, ’51, Tho-
mas L. Woodward, ’65, and Judge Wil-
liam Hodges, ’56.

CHICAGO. The chapter held a dinner
meeting recently in the Chicago Bar As-
sociation Dining Room. Alumni and their
wives were joined for the occasion by the
parents of current and incoming students
and by secondary school guidance coun-
selors in the area. Stanley A. Walton III,
62, ’65L, presided. J. Martin Bass, ’70, as-
sistant alumni secretary, spoke on admis-
sions and current affairs at W&kL and
presented a series of colored slides.

DALLAS. The Texas members of the
University Board of Trustees and their
wives—Mr. and Mrs. John M. Stemmons
of Dallas, Mr. and Mrs. Thomas A. An-
derson of Houston, and Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas C. Frost of San Antonio—were
hosts at a cocktail reception April 30 at
the Dallas Museum of Fine Arts. The
reception was held in connection with
the opening at the museum of the Univer-
sity’s traveling exhibit from the Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain.
Alumni attended from throughout ‘Texas
and also from Louisiana and Oklahoma.
Joining the trustees in welcoming the
guests were several representatives of the
University: ‘Treasurer and Mrs. James
Whitehead, who had participated the
day before in the opening of the exhibit;
Development Director and Mrs. Farris
Hotchkiss, Dean of the College William
Watt, and Alumni Secretary Bill Wash-
burn. Also present and accompanied by
their wives were Adrian Williamson of
Little Rock, Ark., and Upton Beall of
Tyler, Texas, both Alumni Development
Staff Associates. Arrangements for the
gathering were made by Richard D.
Haynes, 58, and Mrs. Haynes,

23

 

 

 

k with gold 1 trim and arms fini
come gift for Christmas, birthdays,

 

 

 

 

   

H. P. Henshaw Jr., ’39

1937

C. ARNOLD MATTHEWS has been appointed
to associate dean of the College of Business
Administration at the University of Florida,
Gainesville. Matthews has been on the fac-
ulty since 1940.

IsADORE M. Scott, W&L trustee and Phil-
adelphia businessman, has_ been elected
board chairman of The Oil Shale Corp.,
known as TOSCO, an independent oil com-
pany based in Los Angeles. Scott will con-
tinue to spend most of his time in Phil-
adelphia, where he is board chairman of
Tri-Institutional Facilities, Inc. He is also
a director of the Western Saving Fund So-
ciety, American Stores, Inc., Girard Bank and
SEPTA. TOSCO’s principal operations are in
California and Arkansas.

1939

H. PRESTON HENSHAW Jr. has been elected
senior vice president of the Chessie System,
Inc. railroads. The Chessie System rail-
roads include the Chesapeake and Ohio,
Baltimore and Ohio, Western Maryland and
their subsidiaries. Henshaw, a native of
Martinsburg, W. Va., was a Navy lieutenant
during World War II. He saw service in
the Pacific and was awarded six battle stars.
He was in the coal industry before he join-
ed the Chesapeake and Ohio railroad in
Huntington in 1950. Nine years later he mov-
ed to Cleveland, Ohio, as special assistant to
the vice president for coal traffic. In 1966
he became assistant vice president of sales
in the coal department and was elected a
vice president in September 1973.

194]

RuFus H. SHUMATE, a retired banker, is now
dealing in real estate development and rent-
al. He continues his membership in the
Virginia State Bar Association and serves on
the board of directors of the First National
Bank. He lives in Pearisburg, Va.

1944

WILLIAM S. LaTz is with the Indiana State
Office Building Commission with offices in
Indianapolis.

1945

R. Epwarp JACKSON has been named Wash-
ington News Editor of Time Magazine. Re-
cently Jackson has been Time’s international
editor, with responsibilities for special ma-
terial for the European and Asian editions.
He and his wife Peggy have two sons.

1946

James A. OTTIGNON is with Texaco’s mar-
keting department headquarters at their
Northeast region office in Cherry Hill, N.J.
He is in the sales and retail training pro-

gram.
1950

DANIEL H. Boone Jr. has been named a
manager by W. R. Grace & Company’s Agri-
cultural Chemicals Group headquartered in
New York City. Boone was previously in
real estate with Boyle Investment Co. He
will be manager of supply and transporta-
tion with W. R. Grace. Boone is married to
the former Mary Lou Hilliday of Memphis.
The couple has three children.

195]

JoHN K. BOARDMAN Jr. is president of Sam
Moore Furniture Industries in Roanoke. He
is also a director of the Southern Furni-
ture Manufacturers Association as well as
being president of the Bedford (Va.) Manu-
facturers Association.

952

J. Timotuy Mackey served in the U. S. Navy

 

as a pilot for 15 years and retired as com-
mander. He is now a captain with TWA Air-
lines. He and his wife Penny have a daugh-
ter and a son.

GEORGE V. SHANNO has been elected to the
board of directors of The Aitkin-Kynett Co.,
a Philadelphia advertising and public rela-
tions agency. Shanno has been vice presi-
dent of the firm since 1973.

1955

Dr. MARVIN P. MEADoRS JR. is associate di-
rector of the pathology department of the
Methodist-Evangelical Hospital in Louisville,

Ky.
1956

DeEDERICK C. WARD and family took a trip to
Europe as part of a sabbatical. While there,
he visited Alan Mixson, ’56, and his family
in Austria. The Mixson house overlooks the

Rhine Valley.
1958

PAGE D. CRANFORD has joined Virginia Na-
tional Bank and Virginia National Bank-
shares, Inc. in the newly created position of
staff counsel, with the title of corporate
legal counsel. Cranford, a banker and lawyer,

Three Washington and Lee men confer during the 1976 session of the Maryland
legislature: Sen. Edward P. Thomas, ’50, representing District 3, Washington and Fred-
erick Counties; Del. Jerry H. Hyatt, 62, and Del. Laurence Levitan, ’55, both represent-
ing the 15th District, which consists of the western part of Montgomery County.

25

Class Notes

 

was formerly regional administrator of the
National Banks in Richmond from 1966 to
1972. In this capacity his responsibilities in-
cluded the examination, supervision, and
legal compliance of all National Banks in
Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina, West
Virginia, and the District of Columbia.
Prior to that he served as attorney-advisor to
the Comptroller of the Currency in Wash-
ington, D. C. Cranford has completed the
Senior Bank Officers Seminar at Harvard
University’s Graduate School of Business, and
the Federal Executive Institute in Char-
lottesville. He serves on the lawyers com-
mittee and the government relations com-
mittee of the Association of Bank Holding

Companies.
1959

RicHARD A. POWELL is in Bermuda work-
ing as a high school reading specialist in a
Department of Defense overseas school.

1960

REv. FIELDER ISRAEL JR. graduated from Vir-
ginia Theological Seminary in May 1975
with a masters in divinity and was ordained
to the Diaconate in the Episcopal Church,
Diocese of Washington, D. C. He is now
assistant minister at St. John’s Episcopal
Church in Chevy Chase, Md.

1961

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. HARVEY ALLEN, a
son, James Michael, on Mar. 29, 1976. Allen
is vice president of J. H. Allen Co., a manu-
facturers representative firm in Fort Worth,
Texas.

WILLIAM B. MCWILLIAMS is now in Knox-
ville, Tenn., where he is executive vice presi-
dent in charge of corporate banking for
United American Bank.

Dr. MILForD F. SCHWARTZ JR. is the attending
pediatrician at Michael Reese Hospital and
Medical Center in Chicago. In 1975 he was
elected to the American Academy for Cere-
bral Palsy, appointed attending physician
in the department of rehabilitation medicine
at MRHMC, and appointed assistant pro-
fessor of pediatrics at the University of Chi-
cago School of Medicine. Schwartz is also
the consulting physician at Larabida-Jack-
son Park Sanitarium in Chicago.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PETER A. Agelasto,
a second son, Parker Camp, on Mar. 8, 1976.
Agelasto is a practicing attorney with the

26

Norfolk firm of Agelasto and Agelasto. The
family lives in Virginia Beach.

1963

CRAIG DISTELHORST has joined Home Fed-
eral Savings Association as a senior vice presi-
dent with headquarters in Greensboro, N.C.
He will have various responsibilities with pri-
mary supervision of savings, personnel, mar-
keting, and investment functions of the as-
sociation. Distelhorst comes to Home Federal
from the Farm and Home Savings Associa-
tion of Nevada, Mo. Prior to that job, he was
employed in the U. S. Department of Hous-
ing and Urban Development. He has also
worked with the leadership, banking, cur-
rency and appropriation committees in the
U. S. Senate and U. S. House of Representa-
tives.

Tep DorEMus JR., formerly with the Security
Exchange Commission, has become the mi-
nority counsel to the committee on bank-
ing, currency, and housing of the U. S. House
of Representatives. He and his wife and son
live in McLean, Va.

Dr. THomMAs D. Epwarps is in the private
practice of orthodontics in the small fishing
village of Gig Harbor, Wash.

JoHN M. GranamM III has been elected a
trustee of Darlington School in Rome, Ga.

Rosert D. Hart Jr. and his brother, W.
Christopher Hart, 68, have formed a law
firm in Pensacola, Fla., under the name of
Hart and Hart. He and his wife Anne have
two sons.

Dr. HAMLET T. Newsom, finishing his Air
Force service at Wright-Patterson AFB in
Dayton, Ohio, will be joining the staff of
Southwestern Medical School in Dallas,
Texas, in the division of plastic surgery.

Dr. J. BRANTLEY SypDNoR is practicing ear-
nose-throat surgery in Roanoke, Va. He
and his wife Jane have a son and daughter.

1964

Puuie BootH will make his debut this
summer with the Sante Fe Opera in New
Mexico.

Maj. NorMAN E. Youncstoop III is chief of
the Electronic Warfare Office, Headquar-
ters U. S. Army Forces Command at Fort
McPherson, Ga.

1965

Dr. Brooxs G. Brown III practices ophthal-

 

J. T. Briggs, ’68

mology in Washington, D. C.

Douc.as V. Davis is general attorney for the
Federal Communications Commission.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. SUMNER, a
daughter, Anna Aven, on Oct. 27, 1975. Sum-
ner is in his second four-year term in the
Mississippi House of Representatives and is
chairman of the Universities and Colleges
Committee.

Dr. ANDERSON D. SMITH is associate professor
of psychology at Georgia Institute of Tech-
nology. He received the 1975 Outstanding
Teachers Award.

1967

MARRIAGE: RoBERT V. CosEL Jr. and Carol
Humstone, in Greenwich, Conn., on Oct. 4,
1975. Washington and Lee was represented
at the ceremony by Bob McIntyre, ’68, Joe
Huston, 67, Bing Grumbine, ’70, Gary Bo-
kinsky, 67, C. B. Smith, 67, Torrey Arm-
strong, "70, Langdon Quin, ’70, Chuck Shu-
feldt, "72, Rob Black, ’67, Bob Harrold, ’70,
Robin Sweeney, ’67, Jim Tyler, ’67, Ed
Dickson, ’64, John Cliett, 68, Ed Allen, ‘60,
and Bruce Cleverly, ’68.

CHARLEs T. STAPLEs is a partner in the law
firm of Hatcher, Stubbs, Land, Hollis, and
Rothschild in Columbus, Ga.

1968

JEFFREY T. Briccs of Port Chester, N. Y.,
has been elected to assistant secretary in
Manufacturers Hanover ‘Trust’s_ central
bookkeeping department. Briggs joined the
bank in 1966 in the customer securities de-
partment. He began the management pro-
gram in 1968 but interrupted it for four
years of military service with the United
States Navy. He returned to the bank in
1972 and was named section head in the cen-
tral bookkeeping department. In 1974 he
became an assistant manager.

Linwoop W. Davis recently completed a
translation from the German works of the
early American Lutheran writer, Ambrose
Henkel. The translated selections were used
in The ABC/s of Instruction for Boys and
Girls of the Lutheran Faith in America, pub-
lished in Richmond, Va., last fall. Davis is
now working with the Army in a civil serv-
ice position in St. Louis, Mo., and is en-
rolled in night classes at Washington Univer-
sity.

 

the private

ete

BriAN R. ADAMS. has recently 1
United States from a ee

GATEs BRELSFoRD,
M.B.A. program at Southern

 

In Memoriam

 

the University of Texas Graduate School of
Business and is now working in Houston.

ELLis L. (ELLIE) GUTSHALL has been elected
assistant vice president in charge of com-
mercial lending activities at First Virginia
Bank of Roanoke Valley in Roanoke, Va.
Gutshall joined First Virginia Bankshares in
November of 1973, and has been working in
the commercial loan analysis and corporate
lending divisions of the holding company’s
lead bank, First Virginia Bank. He is schedul-
ed to begin his new duties on May 1. Fol-
lowing his graduation from Washington and
Lee, Gutshall attended two courses at Dun
& Bradstreet, took the A.I.B. course in bank-
ing operations and attended a real estate fi-
nance conference.

ScoTt RickoFF has recently been elected
president of Phi Alpha Pi Professional Po-
diatric Fraternity. He is a junior at the
Ohio College of Podiatric Medicine and upon
graduation in 1977 plans to do a residency
program in podiatric surgery.

1974

MARRIAGE: Pavut R. Howuanp III and
Laurie Wiklund on Aug. 16, 1975. Among
the guests were David Turk, ’74, Charlie
Taylor, 74, Sam Lewis, ’75, and Jim Cryt-
zer, "76. Holland is a military police lieuten-
ant at Ft. Meade, Md. He is also working
on his M. S. in criminal justice at the Uni-
versity of Baltimore.

MARRIAGE: Ricuarp F. JoNEs and Karen
McCoy on June 7, 1975. Among the ushers
at the wedding were: Charles W. Jones, ’66,
Robert C. Walker Jr., 72, J. Payne Hindsley,
72, and John B. Russell Jr., ’74. Jones is
employed by Tenneco Oil Co. in Atlanta,
Ga., aS an accountant.

Curis P. CAVALIERE is pursuing a master’s de-
gree in Clinical psychology at California State
University in Los Angeles.

JAMEs M. COosTAN is associated with the
Washington, D. C., law firm of Sharon, Pier-
son, Semmes, Crolius & Finley. Following
graduation he worked as a law clerk for
Judge James P. Coleman of the United States
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in
New Orleans.

LEONARD P, EAGER III is in his second year at
Emory Law School in Atlanta, Ga.

C. Davip JOHNSTON completed the judge ad-
vocate’s course at the Naval Justice School
in Newport, R. I., in October 1975. He is

28

currently in Japan with the Staff Judge Ad-
vocate for the First Marine Aircraft Wing.

After a year of teaching English and social
studies at Missouri Military Academy, Ciay-
TON RAMSAY is now pursuing an M.A. in
English at the University of Virginia.

Kir WEITNAUER is in his second year of law
school at the University of Georgia. He is
working with the moot court and is on the
law review.

EpwIN O. WILEY is a student at Fairleigh
Dickinson Dental School in New Jersey.

In December 1975, BEVERLEY H. Woop was
transferred to the headquarters of Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. in Winston-Salem, N. C.
He became a consultant in the employee
benefit plans department of the trust divi-
sion.

1975

After graduation from Washington and Lee,
Daviy HILTON worked at McCormick Li-
brary in the cataloging department. During
this time he lived at a communal art farm
on the property of Mr. I-Hsiung Ju, artist-
in-residence at W&L. In January he traveled
to Taiwan where he worked at the National
Museum of History as a research assistant.
He came home in April to attend his sis-
ter’s wedding in Cincinnati and returned to
the museum in May.

JoHN KILLPACK is opening a custom framing
store and art gallery in Irvington, Va. He
sells his own original art and also limited
edition prints.

PAuL B. Kurtz III is working as a chef at
Krisheim, a study center run by the Pres-
byterian church in Philadelphia.

STEPHEN A. SMITH, associated with the law
firm of Palmquist & Mortimer in Alameda,
Calif., is handling aircraft accident litiga-
tion.

Douctas V. Davis (See 1965).

Francis M. LAWRENCE (See 1971).

 

In Memoriam

 

1925

GREENBERRY SIMMONS, a distinguished attor-
ney in the state of Kentucky who was instru-

mental, in 1932, in forming the organization
for younger attorneys which was later known
as the Junior Bar Association of the United
States, died Feb. 15, 1976. Simmons was ad-
mitted to the Kentucky Bar and the Louis-
ville Bar in 1928 and to the American Bar
in 1929. He held several committee assign-
ments in the American Bar Association. He
was admitted to practice before the Supreme
Court of the United States in 1932 and pub-
lished numerous articles in many legal jour-
nals. The organization of the National Junior
Bar Association has grown until it is now
one of the large and useful sections of the
American Bar Association, with members
throughout the United States, and is now
called the Junior Bar Section of the Ameri-
can Bar Association. Since 1950 Simmons had
been the senior member of Simmons and
Simmons, which owns mineral interests in
Texas, New Mexico, North Carolina, South
Carolina, and Kentucky. He had a con-
fidential access permit for research on atomic
energy minerals from the Atomic Energy
Commission. He held a Presidential .Cita-
tion for his service during World War II.

C. STUART SPRAGINS, a retired vice president
of Commercial National Bank of Little Rock,
Ark., died Mar. 21, 1976. Spragins started
his career with the bank as a bookkeeper and
teller in 1925. He was head of the corres-
pondent banking department at the time of
his retirement in December 1970. Spragins
was an elder of the First Presbyterian
Church, a member of the board of the Pres-
byterian Village and a member of the ad-
visory board of Arkansas College.

1930

L. BENTON FERGUSON, owner of a Tulsa ad-
vertising agency and a member of a pio-
neer Oklahoma family, died Mar. 25, 1976.
Ferguson wrote a nationally syndicated ad-
vice column for 30 years. Before coming to
Tulsa in 1950, he was advertising director of
the Fort Worth Press and was vice president
of Campbell-Mithun advertising agency in
Minneapolis and Chicago. He served as ad-
vertising advisor to the Tulsa Economic De-
velopment Commission and was on the board
of directors of Downtown Tulsa Unlimited,
Tulsa Philharmonic Society, Tulsa Press
Club and the advisory board of the Salva-
tion Army. He was a 32nd-degree Mason.
Ferguson wrote and contributed articles for
trade and professional journals and directed
advertising campaigns for the United Way
and Red Cross.

1976 lacrosse season:
Good in the stretch

 

After three years, the news media’
finally put away their headline reading
‘“W&L Upsets Wahoos.” Yes, we did
beat ’em again, and the headline this
year read, “W&L Trounces Virginia.”
Finally, after four years, it’s no longer
an upset. Recognition comes slowly.

The victory again climaxed a late-
season surge that put W&L into the
NCAA championship tournament for the
fifth straight year. Early season losses
by close margins to nationally-ranked
teams (8-7 to Navy, 9-6 to North Caro-
lina, and 10-7 to Hofstra) dropped W&L
to 10th place in the rankings. But
down the stretch, Coach Jack Emmer’s

squad defeated the three top-ranked
college division teams (Roanoke, Cort-
land and Towson), put a real scare

into undefeated and No. l-ranked Mary-
land before bowing, 16-14, then whip-
ped the Wahoos by a 15-9 margin.

The NCAA ranked W&L seventh
in the nation and pitted them against
undefeated and No. 2-ranked Cornell.
Cornell eliminated the Generals in the
opening round, 14-0.

But the season was another great
success, with the final record 10-6 and
that fourth straight “upset” over UVa. A
full report on the lacrosse season will
appear in the next issue of this magazine.

 

Above: Freshman Jeff Fritz (25) is shadowed
by a defenseman as he moves around the
goal to attack the Towson State goalie.

Below: How sweet it is! Players and coaches
celebrate the resounding victory over Vir-
ginia’s Wahoos. Attackman Don Carroll
(foreground), who scored four goals, is hug-
ging teammate Tommy Keigler. Rob Mor-
gan, who scored five, has his hand over his
face. Goalie Charlie Brown, who had many
saves, smiles at Coach Jack Emmer (back to
camera). Photographs by W. Patrick Hinely.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

 

 

Available Again

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

(Wedgwood)

 

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

 

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

 

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

