soengs

oT ee

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university 4 DPyuLy 1974

ARCH.
373.755
W317alu

JUL 25 1974

Gueteseethten einen s
ees

Library of Washington a

Lexington, end Lee yp;

Virginia 2445) ty

iy
.
3
+

Ls

 

 

 

 

ARCHIVES
‘a ’
LIBRARY
OF
Washington and Lee University
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
be x

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ol

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 49, Number 5, July 1974

William C, Washburn 740.000.000.000. eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68.....................ceeeeseeee Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter...............ceecseeceeesees Editorial Assistant
Robert Lockhart, °72..........:0.ccisccjeacensapeatins Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Four Honored at Commencement ....................... ]
Two Professors Retire :....:..60.040 ae 5
President’s Commencement Remarks .................... 6
An Interview with Dr. ‘Thomas ................... vail 8
McCormick Library Services ...........0..00: ee 13
A Super Lacrosse Season. .....:.0.60cccccce geet tienes 17
Malone Becomes Rector ...............0.0.cc:cccccceeeeeteees 22
1974 Semior Banquet, .5)..c co a eye. 23
Letters from Tucker and Hillier ...........0...00000.... 24
Alumni-Varsity Football Game «0.0.0.0... 26
Graduating Alumni Sons ......0..0.00.0:0:c: ces 27
Class Notes (205.0000 020002 eS eG aa, 28
In Memoriam 0.0... cs cesceesesie tenes eeenesnensensen eae 32

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., 34, Little Rock, Ark.
President

RicHArp D. HAynes, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
Vice President

C. Royce HouGu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
, Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Tuomas B. BRANCH, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
SAMUEL B. HO tis, 51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.
THEODORE M. Kerr, 57, Midland, Texas
Courtney R. Mauzy, Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
CHARLEs C. STEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ToucutTon, ’60, Tampa, Fla.

aS ~
ee

ON THE COVER: W&L’s super lacrosse team was
led by these outstanding performers. They are
(clockwise from the top left around the goalie in
action): Coach of the Year Jack Emmer; First
Team All Americans Ted Bauer, Skeet Chadwick,
and Skip Lichtfuss; Second Team All American
Dave Warfield; Third ‘Team All American Jimmy
Farrar; Honorable Mentions Bryan Chasney and
Rob Lindsey. For the details of W&L’s most suc-
cessful and exciting lacrosse season in history, turn
to Page 17. Photos by Robert Lockhart, ’72.

 

 

Harman, Leyburn, Paxton, Wolfe
are honored at commencement

Almost 400 undergraduate and law degrees were
conferred by Washington and Lee University during
commencement exercises marking the close of the Uni-
versity's 224th year—with the graduation ceremony it-
self forced indoors by bad weather for the first time in
decades.

Four honorary degrees were also awarded: to a jus-
tice of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, a
former dean and sociology professor at Washington and
Lee, a prominent historian, and a popular social critic
and “new” journalist.

Receiving the honorary Doctor of Laws degree was
Alex M. Harman Jr., a 1944 law graduate of the Uni-
versity. Justice Harman was chairman of Virginia’s
Board of Elections from 1955 until his election as a cir-
cuit court judge in 1964, a position he held until be-
ing appointed to the state’s highest court in 1969.

Honorary Doctor of Letters degrees were conferred
on Dr. James Graham Leyburn, dean at Washington
and Lee from 1947 to 1956 and professor of sociology

yg Oe
a Met ce

July 1974

 

until his retirement in 1972; Dr. Robert Owen Paxton,
a 1954 Rhodes Scholar graduate of the University and
now professor of modern European history at Columbia
University, and Thomas K. Wolfe, Jr., a 1951 Washing-
ton and Lee graduate and the author of Electric Kool-
Aid Acid Test and Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake
Streamline Baby.

Nasty weather on graduation morning prompted
University officials to conduct the graduation in Dore-
mus Gymnasium’s new basketball arena—reluctantly,
both because of the break it represented with a long-
standing tradition of remarkable good fortune, and be-
cause of the heat and stufhiness.

Commencement-week activities formally began with
the traditional Baccalaureate Sermon, delivered this
year by Dr. Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion. In
his remarks, “Community: The Fragile Dream,” Dr.
Hodges traced the development of systematic educa-
tional inquiry, the notion of institutions of learning—
“one of only a very few really big ideas in all civilized

Bad weather forced
commencement exercises
indoors for the first

time in decades, and
approximately 3,000
persons had to squeeze
their way into Doremus
Gymnasium for the
occasion.

 

Dr. Louis W. Hodges delivers the
Baccalaureate Sermon.

history’—and their place in building and maintaining
man’s sense of community.

Shared commitment to absorbing purpose, the in-
dividual’s acknowledgment of his own independence
and dependence alike, and the spirit of “investigation
and search, not dogma or propaganda,’ Dr. Hodges
said, “are absolute prerequisites to true community,
whatever the shape of the institution in which it comes
to exist.” And in the instance of Washington and Lee,
he noted, the sense of community ranges from “a strange
social disease called ‘lacrosse fever’’’ to the even more
absorbing purpose “of creating scholarly community
characterized by honor, by trust.

‘At Washington and Lee,” Dr. Hodges said, “we share
a special fragile dream, a dream that men may live in
deep trust and commitment to other human beings.
Our dream is that the ways of expediency, the rules of
the modern jungle, may give way to mutual high regard
for the dignity of the individual. Around this absorbing
purpose to honor men we have built an Honor System.
Our dream,” he declared, “is the proposterous notion
that so fragile a vision can take concrete shape in an in-
stitution.”

A similar theme was sounded in commencement-day
commissioning ceremonies for 10 Reserve Officer ‘Train-
ing Corps cadets by Gen. Arch A. Sproul, ’37, former
commanding officer of the Virginia National Guard and
now president of Virginia International Co., an overseas
investments firm he founded eight years ago. ‘‘No college
or university teaches a higher sense of honor than this

2

Gen. Arch A. Sproul was the speaker at
commissioning exercises.

   

Dr. Robert O. Paxton listens intently
as undergraduate degrees are conferred.

great University through its Honor System,” Gen. Sproul
observed—a critically important ingredient in develop-
ing professionalism in military or civilian life in the
tradition of George Washington and R. E. Lee.

By tradition, the principal speaker at graduation was
Washington and Lee’s president, Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley. In his remarks, he spoke of the pain and difficulty
that often result when the educated mind is faced with
the necessity to acknowledge “that there are realms into
which man’s intellectual probings have not gained him
admission and probably never will, that there are realms
that are unknowable and yet clearly real.” The text of
President Huntley’s provocative call for a thoughtful syn-
thesis of faith and reason is printed elsewhere in this
magazine.

Also speaking at graduation was Douglas R. Sch-
wartz, president of the Student Body and a graduating
law student. Schwartz, who ran for office on a platform
that included advocacy of coeducation in Washington
and Lee’s undergraduate divisions as well as in the
School of Law, said he would have found commence-
ment more satisfactory personally if his fellow graduates
had included women.

Special honors announced by President Huntley at
commencement were the designation of George Wil-
liam Austin, III, of Norfolk, valedictorian (with a four-
year grade-point average of 3.947), and the election by
the faculty of Floyd Wallace Lewis, Jr., of New Orleans
as recipient of the Algernon Sydney Sulivan Medallion,
awarded to the student “who excels in high ideals of

WeL

 

Tom Wolfe receives his hood from
University Marshal James H. Starling.

living, in spiritual qualities, and in generous and dis-
interested service to others.”

Two undergraduate seniors this year received a pair
of diplomas each, having completed full requirements
for both the Bachelor of Science and the Bachelor of
Arts degrees. The two were Richard L. Orr Jr. of Win-
ston-Salem, N.C., and Philip B. Willis of Huntsville,
Ala. Willis was graduated Phi Beta Kappa, magna cum
laude.

Justice Harman, a native of West Virginia, entered
law practice in Pulaski, Va., after his graduation from
Washington and Lee. In addition to his service on the
bench and on the state elections board, he was a mem-
ber of the 1968-69 Virginia Constitutional Revision
Commision and has been active in bar associations as a
state and local officer. Before becoming a judge he was
also active in Democratic party politics.

The citation read at commencement for Justice Har-
man noted “he was never too busy to devote his time,
talents and energies to the service of others,” and point-
ed to the importance of his role “in renovation of the
electoral system in Virginia at a time when it was badly
in need of repair.”

Leyburn, a graduate of Duke, Princeton, and Yale
Universities, taught at Hollins College and Princeton
University before joining the sociology faculty at Yale
in 1927. Twenty years later he left Yale for Washington
and Lee to bcome dean of the University. In 1955, he
concluded he would have to choose between teaching and
administrative duties, and left the deanship to become

July 1974

Justice Alex M. Harman, Jr., gives close
attention to commencement remarks.

 

Dr. James G. Leyburn greets friends after
the exercises are over.

head of the Department of Sociology and Anthropology.
He is the author of a large number of books, including
the classic Haitian People and The Scotch-Irish: A Social
History, as well as many scholarly essays, articles and
reviews; in retirement in Martinsburg, W. Va., he is
working on another social history and several other pro-
jects.

When he retired from teaching two years ago, the
Norfolk Virginian-Pilot commented in an editorial: “He
raised scholastic standards and recruited distinguished
teachers. ‘The Leyburn Spirit’ inspired a generation of
students and brought W&L to the front rank of small
men’s schools.”’

The honorary degree citation read for Leyburn
characterized his career at the University as having been
“seldom if ever” equaled. “He enriched in countless and
immeasurable ways the academic, cultural and religious
life of this community .. . . An inspiring teacher, active
scholar, accomplished musician, Presbyterian elder and
leader, he embodied in his personal as well as in his pro-
fessional achievements the Greek ideal of arete—excel-
lence and versatility in all that is admirable.”

Robert O. Paxton studied at Oxford on a Rhodes
Scholarship for two years after his graduation from
Washington and Lee in 1954. He received his Ph.D. from
Harvard University in 1963, and taught at Berkeley and
the State University of New York (Stony Brook) before
joining the faculty at Columbia in 1969. He is the au-
thor of Parades and Politics at Vichy and Vichy France:
Old Guard and New Order. The latter book, which was

3

Commencement 1974

 

 

Student Body President Douglas R. Schwartz gets in a final word for coeducation.

dedicated in part to his fellow honorary degree recipient
Leyburn, was translated into French and published last
year in Paris.

Paxton’s father, Matthew White Paxton, Sr. of Lexing-

 

Anonymous Gift Honors Dr. Leyburn

An anonymous donor has created a $50,000 lifetime
trust at Washington and Lee in honor of Dr. James Gra-
ham Leyburn, former dean and sociology professor at
W&L.

The gift, known as a charitable remainder trust,
was announced at commencement, coinciding with the
awarding of an honorary doctorate by the University
to Dr. Leyburn, who retired in 1972.

The University was informed of the trust by a Lynch-
burg attorney and part-time lecturer in the School of
Law, Edward S. Gravés, who handled the arrangements.
Graves is a member of the University’s Estate Planning
Council. A charitable remainder trust permits a bene-
factor to make a tax-free gift to an institution such as
Washington and Lee and receive an income for life.
When the beneficiary dies, the trust property will pass
to Washington and Lee to be added permanently to
the University’s endowment in support of the specific
educational goals named by the benefactor.

 

 

 

ton, received an honorary LL.D. degree from Washing-
ton and Lee nine years ago in recognition of his career
as a lawyer, editor, publisher and civic leader in Lex-
ington. Paxton Sr. is a 1918 B.A. and 1920 law graduate
of the University.

“His eloquent accounts of France’s travail leave
little or no room for revision,” the citation read at gra-
duation for Paxton said. “His present commitments to
publishers and graduate students guarantee the steady
enrichment of what is already a brilliant record.”

Wolfe is currently a contributing editor to New
York magazine. His most recent book is The New Jour-
nalism, which includes an extensive anthology he co-
edited, just published by Harper & Row. After gradua-
tion from Washington and Lee, Wolfe earned his Ph.D.
in American studies from Yale and worked as a reporter
for several newspapers, including the Washington Post
and the New York Herald-Tribune. As a W&L student
he was a founder and editor of Shenandoah and was
sports editor for both the Ring-tum Phi and Southern
Collegian.

The citation read at graduation for Wolfe read in
part: “With the satirist’s special talent for piercing the
absurd and pretentious, Tom Wolfe has dissected the
manners and morals of contemporary America; with a
sense of immediacy and detail that recalls the realistic
journalists and novelists of the 18th century he has es-
tablished himself as a unique chronicler of his age.”

WeL

Sensabaugh and Pollard
retire from classroom

Graduation this year marked the
retirement of two of the University’s
distinguished teachers—Leon F. Sen-
sabaugh, professor of history and
former dean of the University, and
James J. Pollard, professor of engi-
neering and applied mathematics.
Both now are looking forward to re-
maining in Lexington and combining
retirement leisure with other pursuits.

At the commencement ceremony,
President Robert E. R. Huntley an-
nounced that the University Board
of ‘Trustees had elected each of them
to an honorary faculty position—
Sensabaugh, dean emeritus, and Pol-
lard, professor emeritus.

Both men came to Washington
and Lee from other schools where
they had been department chairman,
and by coincidence both were 53
when they decided to move to W&L.

Sensabaugh was head of the De-
partment of History and Political
Science at Birmingham-Southern Uni-
versity and chairman of that institu-
tion’s Division of Social Sciences when
he was named dean of the University
at W&L in 1956. He was dean for
four years until deciding in 1960 to
return to the classroom, his first love.

Pollard came to Washington and
Lee in 1960 from the University of
Texas, where he was professor and
chairman of the Department of
Architectural Engineering.

Sensabaugh’s field of special in-
terest is Latin American history, es-
pecially Brazilian, and until retiring
he taught a number of upper-level
lecture and seminar courses in that
area as well as introductory history
courses. He studied in Brazil on a
Rosenwald Fellowship, and has been
chairman of the Latin American pro-

July 1974

gram for the Southern Historical As-
sociation five times.

Sensabaugh is a graduate in his-
tory of Vanderbilt University, and
earned his Ph.D. from Johns Hop-
kins. In addition to his scholarly re-
search and writing, he reviews books
frequently for newspapers and jour-
nals, and has served nine times as
a member of the accreditation com-
mittee for various schools in the
Southern Association.

This spring, he came up with an
intriguing way to spend some of his
retirement hours: he ran for Lex-
ington City Council and won by a
large majority. His campaign em-
phasized the time he would have and
his experience in analyzing problems
and in administration.

There is an international flavor
in Pollard’s professional background,
too. He earned one of his degrees in
architecture from France’s Fontain-
bleau Ecole des Beaux Arts, and

 

Retiring after distinguished teaching
careers are Leon F. Sensabaugh (left)
and James J. Pollard.

later was visiting professor of civil en-
gineering at Chulalongkorn Univer-
sity in Bangkok. He has been a con-
tractor in Greenwood, Miss., his
hometown, and an architect in At-
lanta.

He began his teaching career at
Tulane University, then moved to
Georgia Tech, and ultimately joined
the Texas faculty as professor and
chairman of the graduate department
in 1948. At W&L he taught introduc-
tory courses in the math department
and a variety of engineering courses,
including architectural design and
mechanics.

Retirement brings him the op-
portunity to travel, to take up golf
again (“‘or,” he says, “maybe to have
golf take me’’), and to spend more
time looking after his farm in Rock-
bridge County.

a

 

 

 

comes, which I think it does to all
sooner or later, one of several things
seems to happen to most educated
persons. The reaction may be one of

permanent despair in which the
mind lives out its days pawing over
its achievements until they become
like dry leaves and crumble into dust.
Those who react in this way may con-

 

It is the risk we were made
for; we cannot escape it.

 

tinue the routines of living, but will
have little to live for and little to
offer others.

‘The result for some may be a firm
and determined rededication to the
life of the intellect, perceiving that
the power of the mind, even if not
ultimate, is at least enormous, and
that the area of man’s understand-
ing will not likely be exhausted.
Such persons may be highly produc-
tive, occasionally even mistaken for
possessing greatness — but will have
to labor in the presence of growing
discomfort, perhaps even agony, as
they encounter inevitable limitations
and failures.

For others, the reaction may be
one of disenchantment and then dis-
gust at the province of the intellect,
'not unlike a disappointed suitor who
has been led down the garden path to
a stone wall. Such persons may at-
tempt to dethrone man entirely and
to enthrone instead the elements of
man which he shares with other ani-
mals or with nature — instinct, emo-
tion and the physical being. Dr.
Hodges said yesterday, in his eloquent
baccalaureate sermon, “Man is the
one animal who actually participates

July 1974

in his own creation.” ‘This assertion
would be denied by the person who
reacts to his acknowledgment of the
unknowable in the way I am now dis-
cussing. This kind of reaction might
cause one to adopt a kind of random
madness as a life style — the kind of
madness which one would expect of
an animal who has been deprived of
adequate instincts to guide him, or
of the man who has declined to ac-
cept the gift of reason with which he
was endowed. Or the kind of reac-
tion which dethrones the intellect
might show itself in fervent pursuit
of the occult and mystical in an ef-
fort to find a total way of life through
allegiance to the unknowable. Signs
of all these reactions are fairly obvi-
ous even to the casual observer of the
modern scene.

But fortunately there seems to be
another kind of alternative for the
truly educated mind which finds its
must acknowledge man’s limitations.
It is an alternative that is difficult to
articulate in terms with which the
scholar is comfortable. That is un-
derstandable because it is by hypo-
thesis beyond the realm of scholar-
ship. The scholar can study and de-
scribe men who seem to have achiev-
ed it and can expose the student to
teachings of such men. The scholar
may achieve it himself and thus pro-
vide a teaching by the example of his
own life. But he cannot digest it,
analyze it or require it. He may
note that it takes on many shapes
and forms but he cannot know why
that should be true.

Analytically, nearly all he can say
about it is this: Man possesses the gift
of capacity to reason; man _ possesses
also the capacity for faith; and, far

more incredible, he possesses the abil-
ity and the need to bring reason and
faith together in synthesis. Only
when he achieves this feat is he truly
alive and in harmony with creation.
Once a person perceives this and be-
lieves it, he is in quest of the truth
which literally makes him free. The
superlative reassurance on this matter
was that provided by Jesus to his dis-
ciples: “Let not your heart be troubl-
ed. You believe in God, believe also
in me. In my Father’s house are
many mansions. If it were not so I
would have told you.”

Education is a dangerous venture
indeed. It may break one’s pocket-
book, one’s heart, and one’s human-
ity. It may leave one with the blind
life of the mind or with the aimless
frenzy of the fanatic.

Why risk it, then? We risk it be-
cause if we are to be human beings
we must risk it. The gift of reason
which we are given — we dare not ig-
nore it. We risk it because we know,
at least dimly, the possibility that we
may be able to move beyond educa-
tion to wisdom. We risk it because of
faith in man and in his Creator. In
short, it is the risk we were made for;
we cannot escape it even if we would.

You in the graduating classes take
with you our best wishes and our
high hopes and expectations. If you
can continue to use and sharpen the
mind with which you are blessed and
join it with a faith which makes you
free and gives you strength, the world
has need of you.

We here shall have no illusion
that our role in that achievement will
have been more than a small one,
but of that role we shall be proud.

Congratulations — and Godspeed.

7

An Interview

 

Trustee Thomas sees future of W&L
linked to trends in American society

5

' ¢%

% 3 E

a
bi

Dr. John Newton Thomas was a mem-
ber of the Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees for 36 years—one of the longest
service records in recent history. He was
Rector of the Board for the last four
years of his tenure, and upon his retire-
ment he was named Rector Emeritus, the
first time that honorific title has been
bestowed upon a retiring Rector. Dr.
Thomas was succeeded as Rector by Ross
L. Malone, vice president and general
counsel of General Motors Corp. Dr.
Thomas retired in 1972 after 32 years
as a professor of systematic theology at
Union Theological Seminary in Rich-
mond. In this interview, he discusses his
service on the Board, his affection for his
alma mater, and some of the University’s
strengths and needs.

8

 

 

W&L: What has your long service on
the Board of Trustees meant to you?
THOMAS: For one thing, it has giv-
en me a chance to get to know some
of the ablest and finest persons one
could know in this country. I value
that very much. In the second place,
it has meant that I had a chance to
try to serve an institution that has a
unique place in my heart and among
institutions as I see them. In the
third place, it has meant that as a
matter of privilege I have had to keep
up, to some extent, with what has
been happening in the field of higher
education—notably in connection
with running a small, private institu-
tion. I have had deep convictions
about the unique contributions of

such an institution, and I have re-
garded myself as highly privileged to
try to serve one.

WkL: You have put a great deal of
time, energy, and mentality into your
work as a Trustee. What motivated
you?

THOMAS: I don’t think that I have
done anything that other Board mem-
bers haven’t done. I was motivated
mainly by my interest in higher edu-
cation and in the kind of education
that I think Washington and Lee has
been providing. I was also motivated
by my love for the University. It is
the kind of thing that you can’t put
into words—the emotion and feeling
that one has for it. I certainly felt

WeL

 

Thomas Interview

 

thought in terms of the possibility of
Washington and Lee’s ceasing to be
or having radically to change its
character in order to exist. I thought
of the University as being established
and as something that we ought to
love, cherish and support, but some-
thing whose existence would not
depend upon us—by us I mean alum-
ni and I would like to say faculty,
administration and other friends.
Now I think that the Board of Trus-
tees and perhaps the administration
have failed in the past to let alumni
in on the facts of economic life in
such a fashion that it would have
been perfectly obvious that we need
their support. I think we are now
doing that. ‘There is a vast improve-
ment in the alumni magazine as a
means of communicating facts about
Washington and Lee to alumni, and
I would say that this is a major way
of doing it. I should hope that the
development program would focus
the thoughts of many on the financial
needs of W&L. I would like to see a
program at many alumni meetings
devoted to the financial needs of the
University in which the facts are stat-
ed in all their starkness and maybe
in a shocking fashion, because we
have allowed men to assume that we
didn’t need money, and it is under-
standable to me that if an alumnus
goes out and doesn’t keep himself
closely in touch with the University,
he isn’t giving thought to these things,
and no one has ever told him that
the University was genuinely in need
of money, needing it now, and need-
ing it in a large dimension.

W&L: Do you feel that the reorgani-
zation of the Board of Trustees that

10

 

occurred in 1970 has helped the
Board fulfill its responsibilities for
leadership?

THOMAS: I think the reorganiza-
tion that was initiated under Presi-
dent Cole and completed under Presi-
dent Huntley is the best thing that
has happened to the Board in my 36
years of membership. It has made us
a much more efficient group; it has
made us a much harder working
group; it has related us personally to
the University in ways which were
not true in the past. The structure of
the Board with its various commit-
tees is a good one. Mandatory retire-
ment at age 70 and our system of
term membership were wise decisions.
It is possible for a man to spend 12
years on our Board before he is re-
quired to drop off for a year after
which he may or may not be re-elect-
éd. That is long enough for a man to
get informed about the University

and deeply involved in service to it. I
have served on boards where you had
three-year terms, with a possible six-
year term, and I don’t think that is
long enough. On the other hand, I
am convinced that life service is too
long in many cases. So I have a very
positive feeling toward the reorgani-
zation of the Board.

W&L: Would you explain the Board’s
responsibilities vis-a-vis the admini-
stration and the faculty?

THOMAS: The property of the in-
stitution, its existence, survival, and
governance are vested in the Board.
The Board has ultimate responsibil-
ity for the existence of the institution.
In relationship to the administra-
tion, I think the major distinction is
that the Board deals with general
policies whereas the administration is
charged with the implementation of
those policies in the various specific

WeL

 

Thomas Interview

 

ington and Lee through a religious
organization—the YMCA which was
quite a going thing in those days—a
conception of the social implications
of the Christian faith which I have
always harked back to and which
I hope I have never lost. I owe that
to Washington and Lee. I do feel
indebted to Washington and Lee for
the conception of a gentleman that I
have never been able to live up to
but which I have at least tried to
hold as my ideal. I remember in par-
ticular members of the faculty and
administration who I know fully
took their profession as a calling.
‘That was their manner of service to
society. ‘They in many cases could
have made more money elsewhere,
and they were people whose lives
have influenced me. I was highly in-
fluenced by both faculty and some of
my student friends—just wonderful
people.

W&L: Are you optimistic about the
University’s future?

THOMAS: Yes and no. I am opti-
mistic about Washington and Lee’s
future, but I am concerned about
trends in American society which I
think are inimical to private educa-
tion. It seems to be that the under-
tow in American society is a move-
ment toward collectivism, and I think
that a private educational institution
is produced only in a noncollectivist
society of free democracy and in a
society where there is considerable
support for private enterprise. If it
weren't for foundations which are set
up by private enterprise and wealthy
individuals, gifts from corporations.
and gifts from wealthy individuals,
we wouldn’t be around today. Now

12

“TI do feel indebted to Washington
and Lee for the conception of the
gentleman... which I have at least

 

if gradually we are going to move to-
ward more socialization in this coun-

try—and I think we are unless some
change comes about in us—I think it
is going to be hard for private institu-
tions to exist. When you go far
enough to stamp out private enter-
prise, you cut the source of support
for Washington and Lee. So when
you ask me how I feel about the fu-
ture, I feel that Washington and Lee
is almost unique among American
institutions of higher education in its
quality of education, its moral stand-
ards, and its concern for the indivi-
dual—in the things for which a pri-
vate institution ought to exist. But I
recognize that if this development
program is going to succeed we are
quite frankly dependent upon people
and entities with money. By entities
I don’t mean the General Assembly
of the state or the Congress of the
United States because they are deal-
ing with other people’s money. So I

tried to hold as an ideal.”

think the future of the private in-
stitution is to a considerable extent
tied up with the question of the fu-
ture of the kind of society we have in
the U.S.A.

W&L: Do you feel that Washington
and Lee as a private institution can
make a contribution toward correct-
ing some of the ills afflicting society?
‘THOMAS: Yes, I think so. We can
make a contribution and thereby to
our own perpetuity. I think that the
majority of our alumni would share
to a greater or lesser degree the feel-
ings I have. Yes, I would like to see
our institution with the strongest
kind of social conscience. I believe if
you are a Christian it commits you to
social concern, to seeking justice, to
changing the system if changing the
system can produce more justice. But
I don’t believe in changing the sys-
tem just for the holy image of change
which seems to me sometimes to be
the case. And I think that ultimately
you are not going to have a social
conscience unless you have got indi-
vidual people who have a feeling of
individual responsibility. ‘The social
conscience that I felt in some of my
professors 50 years ago at Washington
and Lee is the only kind of consci-
ence that ultimately is going to pro-
duce the kind of society where we
will have liberty and justice for all.
I felt in these men a great moral com-
mitment which I think alone would
qualify a person for the righteous use
of power—the helpful and just use of
it. I would say that I have always
felt very proud of being a Washing-
ton and Lee man. I have an inex-
pressibly deep gratitude for all the
University has done for me.

WeL

McCormick Library:

 

Meeting the challenge
of a W&L education

A good library depends on a good collection, a good
staff and a good building. It is no secret that Washing-
ton and Lee’s physical library facilities are far from ade-
quate—but an excellent collection and an outstanding
staff guarantee that when a new building becomes a
reality, the University will possess one of the finest un-
dergraduate libraries in the nation.

The undergraduate library system—McCormick and
the six departmental collections in commerce, journa-
lism, geology, biology, chemistry and physics—has more
than a quarter-million books, hundreds of thousands of
pages on microfilm, maps and pamphlets, and a growing
collection of ‘“non-book” resources such as records and
cassettes. Maintaining the system is a dramatically com-
plex, and costly, task.

In addition to Head Librarian Maurice D. Leach,
Jr., McCormick is served by a professional staff of six
librarians and 12 assistants. The library’s operating
budget in the year that ended June 30 was about $290,-
000, almost three-and-a-half times the $84,000 library
budget just six years ago.

Complex and costly—but Washington and Lee, if it
wishes to remain excellent, requires nothing less. Its
library must remain a learning center in which students
and teachers can conduct their business of education ef-
fectively and efficiently. The job of McCormick Library
is to provide the tools for teaching and learning, and to
help its patrons make the most of them and feel at
ease in using them.

Books and periodicals and other library resources
have to be acquired, catalogued, labeled and shelved in
a systematic way—and then be kept track of. Manu-
scripts, letters and other archival materials have to be
indexed, preserved and organized if they are to be of
any use to researchers. Questions ranging from the ex-
tremely specific (“Where was the first opera house in
America?”) to the almost-hopelessly vague (“I have to
write a term paper. Are there any books here that I
can use?”’) require considerable digging by the library
staff and, frequently, aiding a perplexed student in
crystalizing his own thinking.

This is the second in a series of articles on Washington
and Lee’s McCormick Library: its impressive strengths
and its formidable needs.

July 1974

 

How does a book get on the shelves?

McCormick acquires some 10,000 books a year, prin-
cipally by purchase or gift. Faculty members and stu-
dents frequently request the purchase of specific books,
periodicals or other materials; the library routinely re-
views and distributes information on thousands of new
titles to the heads of every academic department. The
library faculty itself often selects books for purchase—im-
portant books not otherwise ordered, useful books which
may not fall neatly into any single departmental cate-
gory. And with the arrival of the book itself comes the
task of cataloguing it (with cross references), labeling it
and actually locating a place for it on its shelf.

McCormick subscribes to nearly 1,000 periodicals,
an enormous expense but one essential in support of the
University’s curriculum. Organizing current copies of
magazines and journals (and making sure every issue of
all 1,000 titles arrives), and preserving out-of-date copies
so they remain easily accessible, is another substantial,
time-consuming operation.

“Our prime consideration in acquisitions and cata-
loguing simply has to be meeting the needs of the Uni-
versity,” says Robert J. Vigeant, head of technical serv-
ices. “Ours is a tremendously expensive and complex
business—in essence, we are the library’s control unit and
its record-keeping agency—but it is a crucially impor-
tant business if Washington and Lee is to continue to
have a top-quality library.”

Reference and Public Services

“I’m always surprised when students and even teach-
ers start off, ‘I really hate to bother you, but . . ..—when
that’s exactly what we are here for,” says Barbara Brown,
head of McCormick’s reference and public services divi-
sion.

The reference/public services staff, including circula-
tion assistants, has of course the greatest amount of day-
to-day contact with library users. One major function
is to teach students how to use the library, to make
them aware of the nature and extent of the resources
available to them. Partly this takes place formally
through the Humanities Program (see accompanying
article), in library orientation sessions for freshmen,
and in research classes throughout the University when
a professor requests preparation of a bibliography; part-

13

ly it occurs informally, when a student needs help de-
termining the availability of resources for a term paper
or independent research project. The reference staff
handled more than 4,100 inquiries last year, and the
number increases each year.

When McCormick does not have a book or journal
needed by a student or teacher—usually in a highly
specialized field outside the University’s curriculum—it
can almost always be acquired by interlibrary loan from
another institution; last year, McCormick “borrowed”
some 350 volumes (or, in some cases, had articles photo-
copied) from other schools. And, of course, Washing-
ton and Lee will return the favor to any institution
seeking the loan of material in its library.

Washington and Lee is a repository for government
documents, and automatically receives every publica-
tion of the Superintendent of Documents within cata-
gories designated by the University; to date, almost 50,-

   
  

   
 

CPOR RIT <i 4 5

HH ulag hrberfiairs Redan iw Svar

  

son en ttetl ont p20 S titi

~
e Wf Uline Se Senin Yea om
r a

oh i

  

  

This 1788 Liberty
Hall Academy diploma
is among the historic
documents in the
archives of McCormick
Library.

000 such official books, journals and other federal publi-
cations have been sent to McCormick.

Special Collections

In recent years Washington and Lee has been plac-
ing a new emphasis on developing its special collections
and making them more readily accessible—and therefore
much more valuable—to scholarly researchers. The
“special collections” umbrella covers important resources
ranging from manuscripts and letters to rare books and
University archives.

As part of this new emphasis and in connection with
Washington and Lee’s observance of the National Bicen-
tennial, the library is microfilming official University
documents such as the papers of the Board of Trustees
and minutes of faculty meetings.

Microfilms are a resource of increasing importance
at Washington, and Lee; they are easy to use (certainly

 

by Sidney M. B. Coulling
Professor of English

Humanities
Program

 

The library iis the focal point of any
college or university. This is a truth so
self-evident that one feels a certain em-
barrassment in proclaiming it. Yet, like
many other self-evident truths, it lends
itself to glib utterance, without real un-
derstanding of its significance, or genuine
desire to make it a reality. For the fact
remains that despite all of the tributes
we pay ito the importance of libraries and
and the money we invest in them, we are
still not making as full and effective use
of their resources as we should.

Recognizing this fact, the Council on
Library Resources initiated in 1969 the
College Library Program and established,
together with the National Endowment
for the Humanities, a $1,400,000 fund
from which to make matching grants to
colleges and universities for programs
designed to strengthen their libraries.
Two years later, in 1971, Washington
and Lee became one of a select few to
participate in this nationwide undertak-
ing when it received a $50,000 matching
grant for a five-year program.

The program was conceived at a time
when the undergraduate curriculum had
been altered to emphasize study in depth
and independent research, and to reflect
the great expansion in the number and
range of courses offered in the University.
The aim, accordingly, was ito assist fac-
ulty and students in working together
closely and efficiently under these new
conditions: the faculty in guiding stu-
dents in their independent study and in-
structing them in the basic methods of
research, and the students in helping
faculty members evaluate and strengthen
the holdings of a library called upon to
meet the demands of an enlarged and
intensified curriculum. Meanwhile the
library staff was to train carefully chosen
students as library assistants, who would
then help other students to make more
productive use of the library.

As an illustration of the usefulness of
the program one could cite the Depart-
ment of Spanish, where two changes have
occurred that make ithe program of par-
ticular benefit. The department has re-

WeL

Microfilm readers in
McCormick’s reference room
remain in constant use.

easier than having to cope with an old, crumbling, four-
foot-wide newspaper) and relatively durable. McCormick
has a complete microfilm file of the New York Times
from 1852, the Richmond Times-Dispatch from 1903,
the Virginia Gazette from 1736 to 1780, the Lexington
News-Gazette and its predecessor paper, the County
News, from 1941, and recent volumes of the Wall Street
Journal. Next year McCormick will begin acquiring the
Washington Post and the London Times on microfilm
as well. The library also receives Time, Newsweek, Busi-
ness Week, The New Yorker, The New Republic and
U.S. News and World Report on microfilm (as well, of
course, as “in print’). McCormick experiences constant
heavy use of its four film readers. The University has
also entered into a cooperative arrangement with 11
other academic and public libraries in the area for
access to the massive Library of American Cuviliza-
tion on microfiche (wherein as many as 100 pages are re-

 

produced on a small card with perfect fidelity), and the
University has now acquired two microfiche readers.

Special collections also includes a large number of
materials dating to the settlement of the Shenandoah
Valley and tracing its development through the 20th
century—newspapers, the personal and business records
of locally important historical figures, maps, prints, and
a substantial genealogy collection.

Other special collections of significance include
the papers of Robert E. Lee while he was president of
Washington College, for example, and the papers of
John Randolph and Harry St. George Tucker, both
Congressmen, American Bar Association presidents, and
deans of the Washington and Lee School of Law (the
Tucker papers were recently augmented by an important
gift from Dr. Randolph Tucker Shields of Staunton).
The University possesses the papers of William Fleming,
a member of the Continental Congress who was in-

 

cently reorganized its offerings in order
to include the literature of Latin Ameri-
ca, thus creating the need to examine the
library holdings in that area, and it is
currently enjoying a renaissance of in-
terest in Spanish, with a number of
majors preparing themselves for gradu-
ate study. For the past two years one of
these majors, with a stipend from the
program, has assisted the faculty of the
department in compiling lists of works to
be considered for addition to the library,
and through his training by the library
staff has been able to help other majors
do supplementary investigations. In the
course of his work, moreover, the stu-
dent himself has profited as much as has
the department.

Another illustration of the program’s
value is to be seen in an interdepart-
mental course offered during the spring
term and taught by various members of
the academic and library faculties. Since
its inception it has enrolled students from
six different departments, giving them
not only the kind of specialized instruc-

July 1974

tion necessary for advanced work in a
particular area (politics majors, for ex-
ample, learn about government docu-
ments, and English majors about Renais-

sance bibliographies), but also non-special-

ized instruction that virtually every
educated person finds useful (both poli-
tics and English majors, as well as future
law students, learn how to use the New
York Times Index).

Elsewhere on campus the influence
of the program has been felt in a variety
of ways. Instructors in politics and socio-
logy have sharpened the motivation of

their students by directing them to the

reference librarians for bibliographical
instruction. Members of the history fac-
ulty have utilized the services of the li-
brary’s reference department in several
courses, reporting as a result a noticeable
improvement in the quality of papers
submitted at the end of the term. Under
the supervision of a member of the Eng-
lish Department, and with the help of
the library staff, a group of students has
compiled a basic bibliography for the

study of English and American litera-
ture which has been duplicated and dis-
tributed to every major in the depart-
ment.

Although the full potential of the
program has not begun to be realized,
it continues to offer challenging possibili-
ties for expansion and utilization. The
grant, for instance, excludes the physical
sciences, which have needs as pressing
as those of the humanities and social
sciences. A changing world has asserted
the claims of new courses—in black litera-

ture and Oriental studies, to name but

two—for which library holdings must be
analyzed. Finally, departments which
have not been able to participate in the
program because heavy enrollments have
made faculty time unavailable require
relief if they are to become successfully
involved.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, the author
of this article, is reference coordinator
of the College Library Program at We&L.
Head Librarian Maurice D. Leach, Jr.,
is its director.

15

 

strumental in creating the state of Kentucky; it also
holds an important collection of letters to and from
Thomas Carter, founding editor of Shenandoah, from
such literary figures as e.e. cummings, Wyndham Lewis,
William Faulkner, Wallace Stevens, Hugh Kenner,
Katherine Anne Porter and Flannery O’Connor. Book
manuscripts such as those of Dr. Crenshaw’s General
Lee’s College, almost twice as long as the 1969 Random
House version, and The Great Wagon Road by Parke
S. Rouse, ’37, a history of the Colonial movement from
Pennsylvania south through the Valley, are also impor-
tant source materials for scholars.

A major effort of the reference/public services staff
is indexing, preserving and cataloguing these unique his-
torical records; until the project was undertaken (by
Mrs. Betty Kondayan, assistant reference librarian, and
Mrs. Ollinger Crenshaw, library assistant), the unor-
ganized materials were difficult to use at best. Already,
some important source materials have been discovered
in these archives the existence of which had not even

Mrs. Betty Kondayan (left)
and Mrs. Marjorie Crenshaw
work on indexing and catalo-
guing newly acquired histori-
cal papers and documents.

been suspected.

The scope of demands placed on McCormick is, to
the outsider, startling. The University offers more than
700 different undergraduate courses, ranging from Papal
history to microbial genetics, from structural linguistits
to Soviet politics, from Victorian poetry to the regula-
tion of industry. Almost every department in the Uni-
versity offers advanced independent study and research
courses, and several offer individual directed-reading
programs; honors programs too require students to
make extremely heavy use of the library. Successful ef-
forts in recent years to make the library a more pleasant,
convenient and comfortable place to study or relax
have also paid dividends by bringing more students
into contact with its resources and services. The remark-
able point is not that teachers and students are in-
creasingly taking advantage of the sophisticated learning
resources the library provides—but that the library staff
remains able to provide them with any measure of ef-
fectiveness at all in antiquated McCormick.

 

McCormick Librarian Receives Grant for On-the-Job Study at UCLA

Barbara Jeanne Brown, head of the ~

reference and public services division of
Washington and Lee’s Cyrus McCormick
Library, has been named one of five li-
brarians “of exceptional management po-
tential” to receive grants from the Coun-
cil on Library Resources, Inc., for a year’s
work in librarianship at major research
libraries.

Miss Brown will work at the Univer-
sity of California at Los Angeles under
her grant. According to the Council, she
will “shadow” the UCLA library director,
Page Ackerman, participating in admini-
strative activities and carrying out a
special study or project during the year.

There were 67 applications from mid-
career librarians for the five grants, the
Council said. President of the Council on
Library Resources is Dr. Fred C. Cole,
former president of Washington and
Lee.

16

a Pree
VD

 

During Miss Brown’s leave of absence,
Betty Kondayan will be acting head of
reference and public services at Wash-

ington and Lee. She is now assistant to
Miss Brown in that division.

Miss Brown came to McCormick Li-
brary in 1971. Prior to that she had been
a librarian at Cornell University for
seven years, and was associate reference
librarian there at the time she left to
join the Washington and Lee staff. She
holds the B.S. degree in English from
Iowa State University and the master’s
degree in library science from Columbia
University. She is active in state and na-
tional library associations.

Commented Head Librarian Maurice
D. Leach, Jr., “Washington and Lee is
exceptionally fortunate to have a highly
trained and dedicated library staff. The
Council grant to Barbara Brown is an im-
pressive reflection on her considerable
abilities—and an important expression of
confidence by objective, professional ob-
servers in the University and its library.”

WeL

by John Hughes

Sports Information Director

Destiny almost fulfilled: Generals’
brings No. 3 ranking

finest season

From the beginning, W&L’s 1974
lacrosse team seemed destined to win
the national championship. It didn’t
quite work out that way, but...

“Our goal is to improve and
finish higher in the rankings than
last year,” said head coach Jack Em-
mer before the season began. The
Generals had finished the 1973 cam-
paign ranked 4th in the nation after
a 14-1 record (13-0 regular season)
and a semifinal finish in the national
tournament.

Emmer’s job was to mold togeth-
er the veterans (“probably the most
talented group of lacrosse players
ever assembled at W&L,” he said of
the Class of ’74) with a group of
talented—but untried—freshmen (over
half of the original 32-man squad
consisted of newcomers, including 14
freshmen). How quickly he could ac-
complish this would be a vital key to
the 1974 success.

The veterans included three First
‘Team All-Americans (goalie Skeet
Chadwick and midfielders Skip Licht-
fuss and Ted Bauer), six of the top
seven scorers from the 1973 team (sen-
iors Bryan Chasney, John Lalley,
Lichtfuss and Bauer, and junior Dave
Warfield and sophomore Don Car-
roll), an outstanding defense (head-
ed by Chadwick and defensemen
Jim Farrar and Rob Lindsey), and
others such as attackmen Bill Rien-
hoff and Don Carroll and middie
Ken Miller.

After an expected waltz over Mor-
gan State in the opening game, the
Generals suffered a disappointing ex-
hibition loss to the Mt. Washington
Club (three of Mt. Washington’s
starters wore the General blue last
year). As a result, the Generals set

July 1974

: a z . — ’
eh Fe Fy

bs Beka

La Me “' AS ’ ‘2 rs
MIP ON. CARB As. as OL RUT LO Ms oy! Saks
7 eo hal Chr it < fe Aat * STS, c ist. * Lee ey ERT es ee BS:

? * ny Y A a var ‘ Ey

ae ore
ks wae Heh

 

Generals’ defenseman Jim Farrar (right) thwarts Navy attack in NCAA quarterfinals.

sail for Annapolis in late March with
some of their followers unsure if they
had yet “put it all together,” despite
their national ranking of 5th in the
pre-season poll. Host Navy was list-
ed 4th.

It was a glorious trip. The sun
shone brightly, the sailboats were
out in great numbers on the Severn
River running beside the Navy la-
crosse field, and W&L won the game,
13-10. The teams, evenly matched

and equally talented, simply traded
goals for the first two-and-a-half per-
iods, before W&L took command. It
was obvious to even the most unso-
phisticated lacrosse fan that the Gen-
erals were in good physical shape,
and still had plenty left at the end,
while the Navy players appeared to be
dragging.

“We work harder at physical con-
ditioning than any of our oppon-
ents,’ Emmer had said. “I prefer to

17

The Nine-Second Goal

 

 

 

peggy cancers anne? — »” — enna 1 ne _—
x
ST en
‘ = -
f #
= ; 3 i 2
Be
. bcd
: Ne megs
= PSS, ‘ Binge eh
ote ee : — > : 1 ate

We&L’s Teddy Bauer snatched

believe that because of it, it’s no
fluke when we win so many close
games.”

Down by a goal midway through
the third period, W&L scored the
next five goals to win going away.
Before the game, Emmer had ex-
pressed confidence in his seniors, par-
ticularly in how they would react to
the pressure of playing Navy at An-
napolis. But his concern had been
the freshmen. ‘““The answer was ob-
vious,” he said after the game. “When
Navy slipped ahead and seemed to
have all the momentum swinging
their way, our players kept their
composure and turned it all around
by scoring five unanswered goals to
take an insurmountable lead.”

The Generals had arrived on the
big-time lacrosse scene. The pollsters
rewarded them by moving them up a
notch to the No. 4 spot in the na-
tional rankings, replacing Navy.

W&L remained undefeated through
spring vacation. After swamp-
ing Denison at home, they took to
the road. Down at halftime to a good
Princeton team, W&J. exploded in

‘6

the second half (following an “‘in-

18

 

the ball in the opening faceoff at
Johns Hopkins in NCAA semifinal game .. .

   

spirational” halftime locker-room
talk by Emmer) to drop the Tigers,
12-7. Outclassed C. W. Post and
Duke easily fell by big margins. W&L
Outlasted a good North Carolina
team to run its record to 7-0 in pre-
paration for the annual “biggie”
against Virginia, now ranked one
notch ahead of W&L in the No. 3
spot.

Last year, when W&L dumped the
Wahoos 15-11, it was considered an
“upset” by most of the lacrosse fra-
ternity. The exceptions, of course,
were the W&L players and their ever-
growing retinue of exuberant fans.
This time Virginia was looking for
revenge on its home Scott Stadium,
anxious to prove that last year had
been a fluke.

Again it was a perfect afternoon
for the W&L partisans. The weather
was perfect. The crowd was estimated
at 10,000, the largest ever to witness
a lacrosse game in the Old Domi-
nion. And 4,000 of them were on the
W&L side of the field. And again
W&L won, leading all the way to a
13-11 verdict. In the next poll, the
Generals replaced Virginia as the

 

 

and charged toward the Hopkins goal as though he
owned the field...

No. 3-ranked team in the country.

The news was flashed across the
vast W&L communications network.
“I was at an alumni meeting in Little
Rock when I got the call from Char-
lottesville,” said Alumni Secretary
Bill Washburn. “When I announced
the score, the alumni went berserk.
They never heard of lacrosse, but
when we beat those damn Wahoos
in anything, it’s something.”

Suddenly it became evident that
W&L could very well go undefeated
in the regular season for the second
straight year. Ahead lay several good
teams, most notably ‘Towson State
and Cortland of the College Division
(Towson would go on to capture the
College Division national title won
last year by Cortland).

After overwhelming outclassed
William & Mary, the Generals were
to enjoy no more “breathers.’”’ They
observed a phenomenon usually as-
sociated with Notre Dame in foot-
ball or UCLA in basketball: when
you're at or near the top, even the
lowliest teams play inspired games
against you. It was a new experience
for a W&L athletic team.

WeL

then fired a perfect shot past three unsuspecting defensemen

and a helpless goalie ...

Little Roanoke, not a bad team
but certainly not in W&L’s class,
actually held a two-goal halftime lead
on the Generals’ home field. (“We
knew we would eventually lose the
game,’ Roanoke’s John Dantine, a
high school teammate of many of
W&L’s players said later, “but we
didn’t know how long it would
take.””) Franklin & Marshall refused
to fold even after it was down by an
impossible 14-1 count, scoring nine of
the next 12 goals before eventually
succumbing, 19-11.

The classic game of the season,
perhaps, was against Towson. The
Tigers were, surely, the best team
W&L faced all year at that point,
and certainly came the closest to beat-
ing the Generals in the regular sea-
son. It was a fantastic game, fast-
paced all the way, with no let-up.
‘Towson’s excellent ball-handlers, tre-
mendous speed, and fast break left
the spectators—and quite a few W&L
players—with mouths agape in awe.

It was one hell of a game. Each
team took turns spurting to leads of
two or three goals in a contest that
was never comfortable. It was tied

July 1974

 

: a
Ri ‘
— PP

E;
=

stad

TT cen

7
a
a
.
.
o
2

2ee

 

ie, -
i ot EY

to put W&L ahead with just nine seconds gone in the game—

elating his teammates and W&L fans.

9-9 at the half; Towson led after
three quarters, 13-11. W&L quickly
tied it at 13-13, but Towson raced to
score four of the next five goals and
appeared to have W&L on the ropes,
17-14, with only half a quarter to
play. With its back against the wall,
the W&L defense shut out the Tigers
for the next 164% minutes, while the
offense scored five times to win it in
overtime, 19-17.

All-American midfielder Skip
Lichtfuss (“W&L’s Jack Armstrong”
according to a student writer for Vir-
ginia’s Cavalier Daily) scored the
tying goal with just 14 seconds re-
maining in regulation, and he and
fellow All-American midfielder Ted
Bauer combined to score the win-
ning goals in overtime.

Washington College, at one time
ranked No. 2 in the College Division,
proved to be a tough opponent as
expected and closed to within one
goal of W&L with less than five min-
utes remaining. But again Lichtfuss
and Bauer scored clinching goals for
a 12-9 verdict.

On that same weekend in early
May, No. 2 ranked Johns Hopkins

lost to No. 6 ranked Navy at Anna-
polis, and the pollsters responded as
expected by moving W&L up to No.
2. Now only No. 1 Maryland was
rated better than “little W&L.” And
only Cortland State, last year’s na-
tional champion in the College Divi-
sion, stood in the way of W&L’s sec-
ond straight undefeated season. The
Lexington community—students and
townspeople alike—went bananas
with the prospect.

The fans had been faithfully
turning out in droves at every con-
test, home and away, with crowds
averaging 4,000 to 5,000. for home
games. Even the midweek contests
against the lesser opponents, which
last year drew only handsful, now
packed ’em in.

To meet a supposed challenge
from the Cortland State faithful
(“hordes will descend on Lexington”
said a letter from a Red Dragon par-
tisan to Coach Emmer), the W&L stu-
dents organized an_ old-fashioned,
bona fide pep rally, just like the old
days (except this time the beer was
dispensed legally). Banners, from X-
rated on down, hung in profusion

19

from dormitory and fraternity win-
dows (“St. Jack slays the Dragons”
was one of the cleverest and cleanest).

The Cortland “hordes” never ma-
terialized. If they had, they would
have had little to cheer about. Play-
ing perfect lacrosse, W&L completely
dominated a very good Cortland
team, running up a 7-0 lead and
playing magnificent defense en route
to a convincing 14-4 triumph. As he
had been all year, Skeet Chadwick
was magnificent in the goal.

But the first fly in the ointment
appeared that same afternoon when
No. 3-ranked Johns Hopkins upset
No. 1 Maryland, 17-13, on Hopkins’
Homewood Field. Until then W&L
appeared to be firmly ensconced in
the No. 2 position nationally and
with it went a favorable draw in the
upcoming national tournament. (The
No. 2 team would be in a different
tourney bracket from Maryland and
therefore would not see the Terps un-
til the championship finals on a neu-
tral field. To get there, No. 2 would
play its first two opponents on its
own field.)

Despite the fact Hopkins had
lost to both Virginia and Navy, the
pollsters, and the tournament selec-
tion committee, moved the Blue Jays
ahead of W&L to No. 2, dropping the
Generals to No. 3 and giving Hop-
kins the benefits W&L would have
had.

W&L fans were understandably
irate, and some non-partisan observ-
ers also took issue with the selection
shenanigans. “What happened to
W&L in the latest lacrosse ratings was
indeed strange,’’ wrote the Washing-
ton Post’s Paul Attner. “Strange hap-
penings indeed,” added the Baltimore

20

ae oa
i

WeL and Towson scramble furiously for the ball in one of the season’s hardest-fought games.

Sun’s Bob Ibach, “. . . the establish-
ment kicked Washington and Lee and
some 1,600 students in the britches.”

“An injustice,” Coach Emmer
said. ‘““You can’t crack the lacrosse es-
tablishment just by winning,” he ar-
gued. “They can’t believe this little
school in the Virginia Valley can be
any good.” But Emmer remained
philosophical about the situation,
and tried to convey that to the team.
‘The seedings make it a lot tougher,”
he said, ‘but we intend to be there
in the championship game at the
end.”

The first obstacle was Navy in the
opening game on W&L’s Wilson
Field. Emmer and his team knew the
Midshipmen were much improved
since their earlier meeting, and had
the added incentive of avenging last
year’s dramatic, sudden-death over-
time victory by W&L under. exactly
the same circumstances.

Thus inspired, the Middies, em-
ploying their usual hard-hitting phy-
sical style of play, took control of
the game and held a 7-5 lead after
three quarters. And then came the
W&L explosion. Dave Warfield, who
has a penchant for personally destroy-
ing Navy (in two previous games
against them, he had totaled 13
points), did it again. He and Bauer
each scored twice in leading a quick

 

five-goal barrage that virtually sank
Navy’s hopes. When the undaunted
Midshipmen did rally to within a
goal late in the game, Warfield scor-
ed the clincher with just 14 seconds
remaining for the 11-9 win. War-
field’s day included four goals and
two assists.

That sent W&L to Baltimore to
play Hopkins on its home field. (“It’s
like returning to Mecca,” said Em-
mer, referring to the fact most of
W&L’s team comes from the Balti-
more area).

This game turned out to be a
classic lacrosse contest also, but with
heart-breaking results for W&L. From
the time W&L’s Bauer took the open-
ing faceoff and scored in just nine
seconds, both teams really went after
each other, trading goal for goal.
Then the game settled down into a
classic defensive game. W&L defense-
man Rob Lindsey was all over Hop-
kins’ Jack Thomas (their “Jack Arm-
strong’). “It’s the only time I’ve
ever been shut out,” the high-scor-
ing Thomas said later. In a tre-
mendous _ strength-against-strength
match against Hopkins strongman
Franz Wittelsberger, W&L’s strong
Jim Farrar practically equalled Lind-
sey’s feat. Wittelsberger was held to
just one goal, an over-the-shoulder,
behind-the-back shot that bounced

WeL

ee

I

—— |

4a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

New rector installed,
former rectors honored

A new Rector and new board mem-
ber were sworn into office this spring
during the University Board of Trustees
meeting and a former Rector was honor-
ed by presentation of his portrait to the
University.

Ross L. Malone of New York, vice
president and general counsel of General
Motors Corp., was formally installed as
the new Rector of the Board. He suc-
ceeds Dr. John Newton Thomas of Rich-
mond, who reached mandatory retire-
ment age for Trustees. Dr. Thomas had
been a Board member since 1938 and be-
came Rector in 1970. Mr. Malone, a
Trustee since 1967, had been elected
Rector last October but had been unable
to assume the position at the Board’s
January meeting because of illness.

 

 

Also at the Board’s May meeting, Dr.
Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., president of the
University of Virginia since 1959, was
sworn in as a new Trustee. Dr. Shannon,
a 1939 Washington and Lee graduate,
was nominated for his Trusteeship by
vote of the University’s alumni.

In a special ceremony, a handsome
portrait of the late James Randolph
Caskie of Lynchburg, Rector of the
Board from 1953 to 1962 and a Trustee
from 1924 until his retirement in 1967,
was presented to the University by Mr.
Caskie’s sister, Mrs. Donald G. Moore.
The portrait, now hanging in the office
of University Treasurer James W. White-
head, was painted by Julia Mahood, well-
known Lynchburg artist.

Mr. Caskie was a 1906 B.A. and 1909

LL.B. graduate of Washington and Lee
who practiced law in Lynchburg for 60
years. He was a director of many business
and banking firms there, was a lifelong
leader in civic and charitable endeavors,
and taught a Bible class in Lynchburg’s
First Presbyterian Church for most of
his adult life.

To mark the installation of his suc-
cessor, Dr. Thomas presented Rector
Malone with a distinctive gavel, on the
base of which are inscribed the names
and dates of service of every Rector of
the University and its predecessor in-
stitutions.

Dr. Thomas was presented a hand-
some silver tray bearing the University’s
crest and the engraved signatures of all
his fellow Board members. Dr. Thomas
was also elected Reotor Emeritus, the
first time such a title has been bestowed,
and the Board urged him to attend and
participate in meetings despite manda-
tory retirement from formal membership.

The traditional title “Rector” is the
equivalent at Washington and Lee to
chairman of the board. The term traces
back to William Graham, principal of
Augusta Academy from 1774, who was
named Rector when Liberty Hall Aca-
demy was incorporated in 1782—the first
educational institution chartered by the
new state legislature. (The name of the
institution had been changed in May
1776, a reflection of the Trustees’ revolu-
tionary sentiment.)

Dr. Shannon, Washington and Lee’s
newest Trustee, retires this summer after
15 years as president of Virginia. He
will return to the classroom as professor
of English (he is a noted authority on
Tennyson). Shannon’s father was _pro-
fessor of English at Washington and
Lee from 1914 until his death in 1938.

Rector Emeritus John Newton Thomas
(left) receives an engraved tray from
his successor, Ross L. Malone, at the
spring meeting of Washington and
Lee’s Board of Trustees.

WeL

 

 

Lewis F. Powell, III (above), was presented
the Frank J. Gilliam Award at the annual
Senior Banquet, sponsored by the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni Association. The Gil-
liam Award recognizes the student who has
made the most valuable contribution to the
University. Also presented at the Senior
Banquet were five Ring-tum Phi Awards,
given for distinctive service which would
otherwise go unrecognized. From left: G.
William Austin, III, sports editor of the
Ring-tum Phi and class valedictorian; Doug-
las M. Thomas, president of the University
Theatre; Martha (Betty) Miller, secretary to
the Dean of Students; James E. Toler, WL
Supply Store Manager, and Dr. John M. Mc-
Daniel, assistant anthropology professor and
assistant lacrosse coach,

1974

Senior
Banquet

\

 

 

Washington and Lee’s Graduate Fel-
lowship Committee will select nomi-
nees for the Henry A. Luce Scholars
program early next fall. Recent gradu-
ates and current students who are
interested in participating in the Luce
Foundation’s Asian studies program
are invited to make inquiries through
Dr. Robert W. McAhren, associate
dean of the College.

As many as four W&L nominees
may be proposed. Those selected by
the Foundation will receive a $9,000

 

stipend for a year’s postgraduate study
in Asia ($11,000 for married Luce
Scholars). The foundation will also
provide air transportation and cer-
tain insurance benefits as well.
Students must be seniors or law
students when they apply (recent
graduates are eligible as well), be-
tween the ages of 21 and 30. Accord-
ing to the Luce Foundation, “nomi-
nees should have a strong, mature and
clearly defined career interest in a
specific field’”—except that specialists

Recent Alumni Invited to Apply for Luce Foundation Study-in-Asia Grants

in Asian affairs or international rela-
tions are ineligible. Academic achieve-
ment is also an important factor, the
foundation advises.

W&L is one of 60 prestigious schools
in America which have been invited
to participate in the Luce program,
which will begin its first year of
operation next year. No academic
credit accompanies the program, but
internships and similar job-study ar-
rangements will be made in the fields
of each Luce Scholar’s interest.

 

July 1974

23

 

Letters

Alumni Association presidents
review recent board meetings

From Tucker

As the new president of the Alumni
Association, I was privileged to attend
the meeting of the University’s Board
of Trustees on May 24 and 25. It was a
rewarding experience for me, and I
think the relatively new policy of in-
viting Alumni Board representation to
Trustee meetings is a helpful one. It
promotes and facilitates the exchange
of information between the two groups.

The format and subject matter of
Trustee meetings are similar to those
of the Alumni Board. The principal dif-
ference, of course, is that the Trustees as
the governing body of the University
must address themselves to the longer
range policies and development plans
whereas the Alumni Board is more
closely concerned with the day-to-day ac-
tivities of the school, particularly those
that concern alumni.

The first session opened with the
swearing in of the new Rector, Ross L.
Malone, ’32, and of a new member of the
Board, Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., ’59..I had
known both of these men during my un-
dergraduate days, so it was a very happy
occasion for me to see them assume such
high positions of responsibility in the
W&L family. You will remember that
Ross L. Malone is a former president
of the American Bar Association and is
now vice president and general counsel
of General Motors Corp. and that Edgar
Shannon recently retired as president of
the University of Virginia.

After the swearing-in ceremonies, the
retiring Rector, Dr. John Newton Tho-
mas, presented a most interesting gavel
to his successor. It seems that the Trustees
had never had a gavel, and Dr. Thomas
had one made from a piece of pine tim-
ber taken from Lee Chapel when it was
restored several years ago. The gavel
was fabricated in the University’s main-
tenance shops.

Much of the rest of the two-day ses-

24

sion was devoted to discussions of the
University’s critical need for substantial
financial support as outlined in the pro-
gram to raise $36 million by 1976, with
special attention to the new physical
facilities to be provided by the program.
Stress was placed upon ‘the assistance
members of the Alumni Board can lend
to the program.

The agenda also included discussions
concerning the University’s policy on
academic tenure, new procedures involv-
ing the awarding of degrees to students
involved in unresolved disciplinary cases,
the University’s continuing assessment
of the question of coeducation, and re-

 

 

Tucker

 

 

 

ports from the four principal deans—At-
wood (Commerce), John (Students), Stein-
heimer (Law), and Watt (College).
Director of Development Farris Hotch-
kiss reported on the work of his office.
Outgoing Student Body President Doug
Schwartz gave a report and answered
questions, and so did his successor, Ben
Bailey. I, as your representative, reported
on the work of the Alumni Association.

In closing, let me urge you to pass
along to me any matters which concern
you or on which you want additional or
clarifying information. Having had a son
at W&L (1968-72) and now entering my
fourth year on the Alumni Board, I have
visited the campus rather frequently dur-
ing the past five or six years. Some
changes are apparent—some for the bet-
ter, some perhaps questionable—but the
basic values and principles are still very
much in evidence, and W&L continues to
be the kind of school in which you can
take uncommon pride. At least I find it
so, and I believe that the approximately
25 members of the Class of 1934 who
returned earlier in May for our 40th
class reunion feel the same way. You
have never heard a more stirring rendi-
tion of “College Friendships” than was
belted out by ’34 at the conclusion of
our class banquet. Also returning were
members of the “Old Guard” and of the
Classes of 1924, 1949, 1959, and 1964.

EVERETT TUCKER, Jr., ’34
President, Alumni Association

From Hillier

The Alumni Board of Directors at
its May 10 meeting heard a report from
Dean of Students Lewis G. John on the
work of the faculty’s ad hoc committee
which has been studying student disci-
plinary policies. The issues involve funda-
mental questions relating to the Univer-
sity’s interests in and responsibilities for
student behavior vis-a-vis civil authority.
The result of the studies so far establishes
a University policy under which degrees
may be withheld in cases where it is im-
possible to follow normal student disci-
plinary procedures because students may
be under court indictment. Once the cases
have been disposed of by the courts
the regular student disciplinary proce-
dures would take place, and the out-
come of these procedures would deter-
mine whether a degree is granted or

WeL

withheld. Further, guidelines for action
are under study, with the ad hoc com-
mittee’s recommendations serving as a
basis for discussion. The Alumni Board
formally received the report and request-
ed that it be kept fully informed of fur-
ther developments.

Dean John reported that an excel-
lent Honor System orientation was held
at the beginning of the 1973-74 school
year for incoming freshmen and _ also
for the first time for incoming law stu-
dents. During the year about six stu-
dents left school because of honor viola-
tions. One student was acquitted in a
public honor trial involving charges of
plagarism. This incident caused a great
deal of discussion among students of the
Honor System, with many disagreeing
with the results.

Members of the Alumni Board dis-
cussed the Honor System further at con-
siderable length at a luncheon with the
Student Executive Committee. Board
members left that meeting with the strong
impression that the student leadership is
strongly behind the Honor System and is
working on particular problems con-
cerning it with vigor and intelligence.
The Student Executive Committee was
a most impressive and articulate group of
young men.

It was reported that 87 sons of alum-
ni had applied for admission to the
1974 freshman class. Of these, 73 were
admitted and 44 had chosen to enroll at
W&L as of the Board meeting. This is
an admission rate of 84 per cent for
alumni sons who applied compared with
66 per cent for all applicants. Dean
John reported that the “staying power’
of alumni sons is at least equal to that
of the student body as a whole.

Calvert Thomas, ’38, chairman of the
1973-74 Alumni Fund, reported ‘that
600 more persons had been solicited than
in previous years and there were 109
more donors. Total participation as of
early May was slightly under 30 per cent,

July 1974

however, and much remained to be done
to reach the goal by June 30. Thomas
recommended ithat the Board designate
a committee to make a detailed study of
communications with alumni and _ their
participation in the Fund, including the
function and strengthening of local chap-
ters. Dick Haynes, 58, was named chair-
man of the committee, with Royce
Hough, ’59, and Tom Touchton, ’60, as
members. The committee is to make a
preliminary report at the fall meeting
and full report in May, 1975.

Assistant to the President Frank Par-
sons reported on the University’s con-
struction projects, and Director of De-

 

 

Hillier

 

 

 

velopment Farris Hotchkiss reported on
the development program. The new law
school building is close to being on
schedule, but adverse weather and ma-
terial problems have thrown the new stu-
dent apartment complex behind. The
development program is about two-thirds
toward its funding objective of $36 mil-
lion by 1976; that leaves about $12 mil-
lion to be obtained in a two-year period.

Of immediate concern is the new under-
graduate library—a vital necessity if
W&L is to maintain its high academic
standards. Also, the new library is the
key to other construction projects, such as
the moving of the School of Commerce to
the present library building and _ the
renovation of Newcomb Hall for other
purposes.

Members of the Alumni Board agreed
to join the University Achievement Coun-
cil and to help in the solicitation of pro-
spective capital gift donors.

The Distinguished Alumnus Awards
program was reviewed, and it was decid-
ed ‘to start publicity earlier in the alum-
ni magazine and to provide a more com-
prehensive information sheet to be com-
pleted by or for candidates. While the
number of names received in the first year
of the program was gratifying, it is hop-
ed that the number will increase signi-
ficantly in future years.

Four years ago, 15 black students en-
tered W&L as freshmen, the first signi-
ficant group of blacks to be enrolled. Of
this group, 10 graduated this year and
are now alumni. The Alumni Board dis-
cussed steps to be taken to ensure that
these new alumni are made known to
and welcomed by local alumni chapters.
Twelve more black students will enroll
this fall.

It is with some regret but with many
happy memories that I completed four
years of service on the Alumni Board. I
am convinced that the University is in
excellent hands. The present genera-
tion of students includes a large number
of outstanding young people. However, °
the future of the University is never an
automatic thing, and the interest, par-
ticipation, and financial help of every
alumnus are vital to its continued well-
being.

I thank each of you for the honor of
serving as your president this past year.

WILLIAM H. HILtier, ’38
Past President, Aumni Association

25

Hard-hitting Alumni fall short by two
of upsetting Varsity in spring game

Rising sophomore Ralph Moore scor-
ed his second touchdown of the day with
just 1:52 remaining to give the Varsity
a hard-fought (as usual) 26-24 victory
over the Alumni in the annual spring
football game on May 18.

The game wound up the two weeks
of spring practice for the Varsity, and
provided the usual rallying point for the
football alumni, who thoroughly enjoyed
the game and its pre- and post-game
reunions.

Up until Moore scored on his second
one-yard touchdown plunge of the day,
it looked like the Alumni would pull

 

 

off that elusive upset they've come so
close to for the past few years. The var-
sity ran up a 20-6 halftime margin and
appeared to be in full control.

But the Alumni rallied in the third
and fourth quarters and scored three
times to pull ahead, 24-20, with just
five minutes remaining. The Alumni
stopped the Varsity and forced a punt,
but a fumble gave the ball back to the
Varsity deep in Alumni territory and the
undergrads drove to the winning tally.

Individual standouts were many. Ris-
ing junior Mark George caught two
touchdown passes, one of 20 yards from

 

 

Pegi

   

Pra

Above: Alumni’s Tim Haley (No. 30) buckles as he hauls down a Varsity ball carrier.

Below: As Alumni defense takes a rest, Coach John Wolf (No. 63) gets in a word
with wife Susan. Top right: So the Alumni lost by two points, it was still a game worth
smiling about.

 

classmate Jack Berry and the other a
12-yarder from freshman Rocky Joyner.
For the Alumni, Steve Mahaffey showed
he hasn’t lost any of the skill that made
him the nation’s top pass receiver in his
undergraduate days: “Chief” grabbed a
15-yard touchdown pass from Lewis Po-
well and another six-yard TD from Jack
Baizley.

Powell also connected on a 10-yard
scoring pass to Chappy Conrad and
Baizley bucked over for the other Alum-
ni touchdown. Standout linebacker John
Wolf was again the chief organizer and
“coach” of the Alumni team.

 

1974 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Sept. 14 Millersville State Away
Sept. 21 Madison HOME
Sept. 28 Centre Away
Oct. 5 Randolph-Macon HOME
Oct. 12 Hampden-Sydney Away
(Lynchburg Stadium)

Oct. 19 Towson State Away
Oct. 26 Sewanee HOME
(Homecoming)

Nov. 2 Southwestern Away
Nov. 9 Denison HOME
(Parent’s Weekend)

Nov. 16 Washington U. HOME

WeL

Graduating sons of alumni

 

Sons of alumni who graduated on May 30 are shown above and below. The fathers are seated in front of their sons. They are (l-r)
V. O. Barnard, Jr., 50, Virgil O. Barnard, III; Walter L. Hannah, °50, Walter L. Hannah, Jr.; Kenneth S. Gusler, 49, Charles E. Gusler;
Arnold R. Marcum, ’39, John R. Marcum, II; Ben E. Grimm, °49, Jeffrey M. Grimm; I. Grier Wallace, Jr., 35, John S. Wallace; Paul
G. Cavaliere, ‘48, Paul G. Cavaliere, Jr.; William H. Runge, Jr., 39, William H. Runge, III; William H. Oast, Jr., "44, William Oast, III;
Harry H. Hill, Jr., 49, Harry H. Hill, II; Richard K. Stuart, ’37, Richard K. Stuart, Jr.; Lee R. Redmond, Jr., 45, Lee R. Redmond,
III; John M. McCardell, ’37, Charles L. McCardell; Alexander K. Lawrence, ’35, Alexander K. Lawrence, Jr.; E. Graham Leslie, Jr., 49,
E. Graham Leslie, III.

 

Thomas P. Faulkner, 49, Thomas P. Faulkner, Jr.; Frank LaMotte, 42, Matthew Lamotte; George W. King, Jr., ‘43, George W. King, ITI;
Edward J. McCarty, Jr., 42, Pat McCarty; Charles C. Stieff, II, ’45, James W. Stieff; Earle P. Brown, ’44, Anthony S. Brown; Evan A.
Chriss, ’42, Andrew J. A. Chriss; Latimer G. Young, 40, Thomas L. Young; Thomas H. Alphin, ’36, Thomas H. Alphin, Jr.; G. Edward
Heinecke, 44, Stephen E. Heinecke; William P. Nicolson, 44, William P. Nicolson, IV; Charles W. Pinnell, Jr., "46, Charles W. Pinnell,
III; Charles P. Didier, 42, Charles D. Didier; E. Waller Dudley, ’43, Waller T. Dudley; James G. Sheridan, 50, John M. Sheridan, III.

=: F j
‘ 3 bd ‘ 4 Be $ bs P
%« k %
* F % ?
- %
: . : ee i i ‘
Sond : Be nae
: % }
e % oH i + oti. ;
4 a io ‘ : tang ty 5 f »
$y a * é 2 | Mee: ‘a 2 ‘ % - ly a *
* # é ll, E j - » < hag A Mis ll ko a

William A. Glasgow, ’31, William A. Glasgow, Jr.; James D. Farrar, '49, James D. Farrar, Jr.; Jack B. Russell, 49, John B. Russell, Jr.;
Lewis F. Powell, Jr., ’29, Lewis F. Powell, III; H. J. Sullivan, ’32, Stewart J. Sullivan; Joseph M. Zamoiski, 45, John M. Zamoiski; Calvert
Thomas, '38, Douglas M. Thomas; Frank M. Hankins, Jr., ’39, Craig M. Hankins; Frank O. Evans, ’30, Robert E. Evans. (Not shown in
picture are B. Elliott Brennan, 35, Robert O. Brennan; Edward C. Burks, 42, Edward C. Burks, Jr.; Leonard P. Eager, Jr., 43, Leonard
P. Eager, III; Stanley F. Hampton, ’30, Forrest $. Hampton; R. C. Haydon, Jr., 46 (deceased), Richard C. Haydon, III; George R. Jones,
Sr., ’37, George R. Jones, Jr.; John L. Kirkpatrick, 43, John L. Kirkpatrick, Jr.; Everett A. Martin, °37, Everett A. Martin, Jr.; Wilbur
S. Metcalf, 40, Richard H. Metcalf; Walter Steves, °39 (deceased), John P. Steves; Sherwood W. Wise, '32, Joseph P. Wise.

July 1974 27

 

tt

ee

 

 

EE

 

 

 

 

Gil Bocetti, ’54

News, Va., has been named by Gov. Godwin
to a term on the Virginia Travel Advisory
Committee. He is one of 19 businessmen,
travel officials, editors, and writers serving on
this body, which is charged with maintain-
ing a liaison between travel promotion
activities of the state and those of the
private sector. Bowen, who also serves as
travel editor of the newspapers, has travel-
ed extensively in the U. S. and abroad. He
is a member of the Society of Travel Wri-
ters and the Virginia Council.

JAMes W. Robserts, Jr., is in his third year
with Arlen Shopping Centers Co. as project
manager. He and his wife, Bess, live in Hix-
son, Tenn., a suburb of Chattanooga. Ro-
berts travels extensively on business and
pleasure in a Bonanza-400 airplane which he
pilots.

1952
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THomas G. Garp-

NER, a son, on Jan. 28, 1974. The family lives
in Manassas, Va.

H. MELVILLE Hicks, JR., an attorney who
was formerly with the firm of Lawler, Sterl-
ing & Kent of New York City, is now a
partner in the firm of Coogan, Mannix &
Hicks with offices in White Plains, N. Y.

1953

J. TAytor WILLIAMS, since July, 1973, has
been chief judge of the 10th District Juv-
enile and Domestic Relations Courts of
Appomattox, Buckingham, Charlotte, Cum-
berland, Halifax, Lunenburg, Mecklenburg,
and Prince Edward Counties and the city
of South Boston.

JAROsLAV A. DRABEK is author of a book en-
titled Blackboard Odyssey published by J.
J. Douglas Ltd. of Vancouver, British Co-
lumbia. Drabek, who describes himself as a
“walking resource lab in comparative educa-
tion,” has had schooling in Nazi-occupied
Czechoslovakia, a New York City high school,
Washington & Lee University, the Univer-
sity of Mysore in Southern India, Simon Fra-
ser University, and the University of British
Columbia. The book discusses the school
systems in the various parts of the world.
Drabek now teaches journalism and Euro-
pean literature at Kitsilano School in Van-
couver.

1954

Bruce R. KING, JR., senior vice president of
Richmond Corp., has been elected a cor-

July 1974

poration director. King joined the firm as a
vice president in 1971 after serving as vice
president of Reliance Insurance Co. in
Philadelphia and chief investment officer for
the parent companies. Before joining Re-
liance, King was employed from 1954 to
1963 by the Life Insurance Co. of Virginia.
He is a director of Southern Bankshares,
Inc., Southern Bank and Trust Co., Insur-
ance Management Corp., Leatherby Cos.,
Inc.; DANAC Real Estate Investment Corp.,
and is a trustee of the Virginia Supplemental
Retirement System.

RAYMOND F. BEE is vicing mold and _ pit
foreman at No. 4 Electric Furnace Depart-
ment for United States Steel Corp. at South
Works, Chicago.

Ropert O. GLAsIER, who for the past 15
years has been in Europe and most recently
with Eurofil, a subsidiary of Hollingsworth

& Vose Co. of Boston in France, is returning
to the United States and will take up resi-
dency in June in Gulfport, Fla. He and his
wife have four sons.

GILBERT BOcETTI, JR., former vice president
of marketing with Jefferson-Pilot Title In-
surance Co. of Greensboro, N. C., has beén
named president of Title Insurance Co. with
headquarters in Chapel Hill. Bocetti has
had over 14 years of experience in the title
insurance industry. Prior to joining Jeffer-
son-Pilot in 1963, he served in the legal de-
partment and as a branch manager with
Lawyers Title Insurance Co. of Richmond
for three years. Bocetti is active in profes-
sional associations relating to title insur-
ance. He is currently serving as president
and a director of the South Carolina Pro-
perty Association, a member of the Mort-
gage Bankers Association of the Carolinas,
and a member of the North Carolina In-

 

Charles S. Rowe, a 1945 Washing-
ton and Lee graduate and now edi-
tor and co-publisher of the Fredericks-
burg (Va.) Free Lance-Star, was named
1974 winner of the George Mason
Award, the highest in Virginia journ-
alism, by The Society of Profesional
Journalists, Sigma Delta Chi.

Rowe has been on the Free Lance-
Star staff since 1949 and has been a
leader in professional journalistic
activities throughout his career. In
1969 he was president of the Associ-
ated Press Managing Editors Associa-
tion, and in 1972, while he was a
board member of the American So-
ciety of Newspaper Editors he was
selected as one of 20 American edi-
tors to accompany President Nixon
on his visit to Mainland China.

The Free Lance-Star is an afternoon
newspaper with a circulation of 21,000.
Rowe’s brother, Josiah P. Rowe, III,
a 1948 graduate of Washington and
Lee, is its co-publisher and general
manager.

 

High Award in Journalism Goes to Rowe

 

an

 

1 ALY
Naty

The George Mason Award, estab-
lished in 1964 and named for the
author of the Virginia Declaration of
Rights, honors contributions of ex:
ceptional significance to journalism
in the state. In 1966, the award was
presented to Walter B. Potter, also
a 1948 W&L graduate, editor and pub-
lisher of the Culpeper Star-Ex ponent.

 

 

29

 

Class Notes

 

1959
JorL E. Kocen has been elected treasurer of
Sybron Corp. in New York City. Kocen join- | 7
ed Sybron in 1969 as manager of taxes. In BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RovAL TeRRELL, JR
ae a ee - ot ae September, 1970, he 1 as” named assistant a son, Bryan Royal, on April 20, 1974. The
ve 2M osepH H. Cuums- controller with resp sibility for tax and family lives in Atlanta, Ge, where Terrell is
a son, | Christop her Harper, on Feb. insurance Seed oem, 3 Hetore with Chubb & Sons | a

4. .T. he are lives in St. oe ee | | oe
torney. | RoBIN S. KENT is “adendisie a summer pro-
gram at the Inter University C m

for Political Research at the “University of
Michigan. The program deals with c
ogice techniques of political research. —

 

    

   
 
 
 
  
      
    
 
   
  
 
  
 
   

     

 

      
 

    
 

  

BanNen Sis: vice president a1 t
oy ae and ‘Guaranty 0

 

    

General. Pere ur # Sien — \ restern .
Reserve University, bara oe eae -

1967
BIRTH: i; Mr. and Mrs. CHARLEs T. "STAPLES,
Cc ‘Tune, Jr., on Dec. a 1973.
Z in Colunbas Ga. :

 

 

  

oe
at Giady Memorial
os ital a

   
 
 

  

 

  

sein Surgical

soci | to. nthe former “Just Cook: they have. two
— of _ Beneraly thoracic, and vascular Wu

 

 

   

 

J. OAKLEY SEIBERT is an attorney in Mar-
tinsburg, W. Va., and is president of the
county bar association. Recently, Seibert
was congratulated by the Mayor after sign-
ing a proclamation declaring the observance
of Law Day in Martinsburg.

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM DUDLEY
ALLEN, III, a daughter, Ann Courtney, on
Dec. 20, 1973. The Allens have two children
and live in McKenney, Va. Allen is with
the law firm of Lavenstein, Andrews and
Cummings in Petersburg and is also as-

SUBSCRIBE TO

Che KRing-tum Phi

If you wish to receive
the weekly campus news-
paper The Ring-tum Phi,
please fill out the coupon
at the right and send it
with $7.00 to:

sistant commonwealth Din-

widdie County.

attorney for

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Patrick K. AREY, a
daughter, Anne Walton, on Jan. 22, 1974.
The young lady joins an older sister. The
family lives in Lexington, where Arey is at-
tending W&L School of Law.

GARY D. SILVERFIELD has been elected vice
president of the Barnett Wintson Invest-
ment Trust of Jacksonville, Fla. Before join-
ing the real estate trust, Silverfield was a
senior appraiser in the Florida real estate
investment office of Prudential Insurance

The Ring-tum Phi
Box 899
Lexington, Va. 24450

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip Code

Co. Barnett Winston Investment Trust is a
land sale-leaseback intermediate term lend-
er, wholly-owned subsidiary of Barnett Win-
ston Co.

After receiving a master’s degree in real
estate from the University of Florida, Davin
C. ENNIs is now in Raleigh, N. C., and is
an investment underwriter with Cameron-
Brown Investment Group.

After receiving a MBA from Columbia Uni-
versity in February, 1973, WILLIAM J. Kim-
MEL is presently an assistant treasurer at
Morgan Guaranty International Finance

 

Two W&L Geology Graduates Help Fathom the Mysteries of Antarctic Depths

Geologists Sherwood W. Wise, Jr., ’63,
and Andy Gombos, ’70, recently experi-
enced what they called ‘‘a most exciting
and enjoyable venture” aboard the scien-
tific drilling vessel Glomar Challenger
during cruise Leg 36 in the Antarctic
Ocean in a hitherto unexplored region
of the ocean. The expedition produced
some scientific firsts.

The Challenger is a unique ship. It is
capable of drilling in any water depth in
any ocean basin not covered by ice; it
can penetrate and core about a kilo-
meter into the underlying strata. This
ongoing program of ocean research, call-
ed the Deep Sea Drilling Project, has
been sponsored by the National Science
Foundation since 1968.

Wise and Gombos received their intro-
duction to marine geology as students of
W&L’s Dr. Edgar Spencer, professor of
geology, who has maintained a lively
interest in the field since his days at
Columbia University. Wise recently wrote
about his experience:

“Andy and I are both now at Florida
State University, where we are engaged
in research in the geology department’s
Antarctic Research Facility, of which I
am director of research.

“We along with another colleague from
Tallahassee joined the 12-man scientific
crew of the Leg 36 cruise as micro-

July 1974

 

 

&

 

Wise (left) and Gombos aboard the
Glomar Challenger.

paleontologists. Andy is specializing in
fossil diatoms and will complete his dis-
sertation next year using, in part, the
material he obtained during the cruise.
Diatoms are one of tthe most abundant
and useful fossil groups in the Antarctic
Ocean for the age-dating of sediment,
but relatively little is known about them
so far. I investigated calcareous nanno-
fossils which are minute planktonic algal
skeletons which are the main constituents
of chalk deposits such as the White Cliffs
of Dover, etc.

“Although we went through two hur-
ricane-force storms and lost a lot of equip-
ment (including three miles of drill pipe),
we did manage to recover over 500
meters of core, spanning much of the
geologic record of this hitherto unex-
plored region of the ocean, including
what seems to be the oldest sediment
drilled to date by the Deep Sea Drilling
Project (recent times to Late Jurassic,
155 million years plus). Some of the
record documents the pre- and early his-
tory of the break up of Gondwanaland,
the large continental block which is now
fragmented into the widely dispersed
Southern Hemiphere continent of Ant-
arctica, South America, Africa, Australia,
and the subcontinent of India. It’s a
pleasure to be associated with W&L
graduates in this area of research.”

31

 

Corp., a subsidiary of J. P. Morgan Co., Inc.,
of | New York City.

| Josern T. CHapwIck, Jr., has been elected
ae assistant vice the pon of Rowe Price

 

    

 

- Wituiast , G. C Coe is project. ‘manager

for the a anta_ Division, Ryan Homes. -

 

 
 

ne ins | 1973, and was a
: trust. planning” officer in ja ar
Croft, Decaiie a eae of the $ wee

 

Seoul, Kor
sation and
partment.

 

ea. He will teach English conver-

 

the English de-

 

  

 

 

 
 
   

 

icons who retired in

year course in hospital administration at
the Charlotte, N.C., Memorial Hospital and
spent three years in the Army Medical Ad-
‘ministrative Corps > during» World War II.

 
 

°

He went to Kingsport, in 1949 and becan
aoe mITeUtOr: of the Bespital in 1959.

 

 

| ber for 40: years
| Staunton n hospital He va 82.

ng for 25 years as, Prptesson |

Dr. Bean Dies
at age of 82

 
 
  
   

 

   

| ; ‘Sra a “National Centennial |

      
 

  

ae 7 “Stonewall’s “Man:

  
   
 
   
 

- een 1c

 

_ Dr Bean is survived vgs :
“Mrs, Lucy, Marsteller Be

 

 

. Bean, one 2 of | —

ar ané d a fay nem |

an Bean, I 1, of V of Washingt |

 

 

    
      

    

 
    
 
     
   
   
      
   
 
  
 
   

peer ES are et

; ‘Pendleton and The ‘Liberty | ‘Hall |
- Volunteers: oneway College Boys. |

 

 

 

 

 

 

RESERVE THE DATES

Homecoming

OCTOBER 26, 1974

Washington and Lee vs. Sewanee on Wilson Field

and

 

 

Fall Class Reunions

OCTOBER 25 and 26, 1974

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of

1929

1939

1944

1954

1969

IT’S STILL FUN GALORE IN FALL ’74!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings.
All profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ‘14.

Price: $60.00 f.0.b.
Lexington, Virginia

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Immediate shipment from available stock.

r OTe a
a. ce

 

 

