the alumni magazine of washington and lee university MARCH 1973

A
"

es |
.
os

i aaa. 2

a

       
     

7

ny

aa ee Sa

re

 

 

 

er 8

.

ie boc bvbebctbtttttrtttittttttittttsssseel

es obo bebe eco bb be bbt be tttttttttteteseee LG

ittee ec

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

   

 

 

    

 

      

- an Oo - - - - a 7 OO - : : - : - : ; / ; : - /
7 - - oe a -
oe 24 a
- a - - - - ’ - - -
: - . - - :
: / 7 - 7 . eo - -
: : : ; - : v
- - a > . - - 7 : /
a . - : -
- - - 7 a - - 7 . oo
: 7 -
: -
- - - ;
- 7 7 ; /
7 - - ; / - -
a : _ 7 : : i ;
7 . - : _ Oo -
: ; : : : oe - 5 : Oo Oo
- . . - ; :
: - a 7 toe De - : 7
- >

   
  
    

     
   
  
   
 
   

 

Sak e -
St a 7

a

- -

 

 

 

 

.

  

  
 

 

 

a
a
a

 
   

ie te
25;

 

a

  

te

     

“
ro, a
a

   

f

 

  
 

De

 
  
  

Computers at WoL

 

theories of data structure, and tech-
niques for analyzing data; and

—They assist in practical instruc-
tion, especially when the computer
can be programmed to simulate a
real-life situation and to provide
logical responses to information fed
into it.

There is a multitude of other ap-
plications of computers in our society
—some that boggle the mind, others
that are more mundane. ‘The recent
surge of interest in small calculators
which sell for less than $400 reflects
another technological step toward
making computers available to every
person, for these calculators are in
fact miniaturized computers.

Of course, computers at Washing-
ton and Lee are in no case used to
replace the teacher; rather, computers
augment the teacher’s effectiveness
in the classroom. Generally, professors
who require complex computations
or who otherwise employ statistical
analysis of data frequently use com-
puters in class or laboratory.

Obviously, some faculty have no
apparent use for computers, while
others find them indispensable in
their daily work; one economics
professor may teach general theory
while another may teach the analysis
of economic variables and their
interrelationships. One mathematics
professor may teach pure abstract
algebra, while another may use the
same abstractions to illustrate
theories of computer structure.

As theories advance in sophistica-
tion, the physical sciences especially
require computers at Washington
and Lee to provide quick and accu-
rate calculations for class, laboratory,

2

 

and research use. The social sciences
also require the kind of analysis the
computer can provide in order to
answer a variety of questions about
current and historical developments
and the patterns they reflect. ‘The
concepts of computer logic and
operation are themselves a science
which some members of the faculty
actively pursue.
The 1130

The University’s general-purpose
computer system, the IBM 1130, is

 

 

used about half by academic depart-
ments and half by administrative
divisions. About 100 students a year
take courses in computer program-
ming; perhaps 200 students take other
courses during each year in which
computers are used in class.
Advanced students are given the
opportunity to learn operation of
the computer, advanced programming
languages, and computer design
under the University’s independent
study programs, without academic

 

Prof. Robert B. Brownell aids student in planning program.

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

Computers at WoL

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Robert A. Roberts and students reflect on

by providing physical convenience;
with terminals nearby, students can
process data while experiments are
being conducted.

Classes in economics, political
science, mathematics, and the physical
sciences use the “mini-computer”’
regularly for class computation. In
mathematics, for instance, classes in
numerical analysis are able to
implement theories they have de-
veloped in class; they can investigate
not merely the methods by which
solutions are reached but also the
validity of the data produced by the
computer. Such knowledge of com-
puter-generated error is essential in
advanced applications (in spacecraft
control, for example). Problems can
in fact be posed in class, the answers

 

to which no computer can determine

4

a problem in computer science.

with very much accuracy—even

while theory indicates that there are
unique answers. The availability of
the “‘time-shared” system is invaluable
in this particular application, since

it permits students to experiment
with computations and to watch

as theoretical results are verified.

Some classes use the IBM 1130
to consolidate information and then
the ‘““mini-computer” to analyze
selected portions of the data. ‘This
flexibility improves the efficiency of
computer usage and at the same time
teaches students detailed analytical
methods.

The “mini-computer” is valuable
also in personal research; it permits
professors and students alike to
investigate computer logic, structure,
and design even while other academic

 

 

or administrative work is being
performed by the larger computer.
The “mini-computer” will further
serve as “interpreter” for the Min-
uteman computers awarded the
physics and chemistry departments
as well.
In short, computers are very much
a part of the Washington and Lee
educational process. It is estimated
that between 30 and 50 per cent
of the student body will employ
one or another of the University’s
computers during their undergradu-
ate careers. Ihe computers make
possible advanced research by stu-
dents and faculty, and offer every
student the opportunity to become
familiar with the machines he will
certainly encounter some day in
the near future.

WeL

Nosecone computers:
a bargain at $/1 each

Washington and Lee’s newest comput-
ers were almost thrown away by their
original owner before they were used
even a single time. The computers used
to reside in the nosecones of two Minute-
man missiles. But some time ago, the gov-
ernment decided to replace that genera-
tion of defense weaponry with some more
sophisticated equipment, and very nearly
dispatched the old stuff to the scrap pile.
But each nosecone computer had cost
more than a quarter of a million dollars
in the beginning, and even the govern-
ment had second thoughts about junking
perfectly good equipment that had cost
that much.

So instead it gave it all away.

The Defense Department first made
very, very sure that the Minuteman pro-
grams were completely erased from each
computer’s memory, and then gave col-
leges and universities the opportunity to
haul them away. And so it was that the
W&L physics and chemistry departments
acquired two funny-shaped but important
new additions to their computer facili-
ties—for a mere $70.98, the cost of ship-
ping them to Lexington from their old
homes in missile silos.

To be sure, the new machines are a bit
slower than the University’s big IBM
1130 computer — .000078 seconds per
operation for the new ones, as against
-0000032 seconds for the IBM (that’s
four zeroes versus five). But even s0,
Washington and Lee’s scientists think
they got a bargain. The new computers
will be exceptionally useful both in
teaching and in research, according to
Dr. Edward F. Turner, Jr., physics pro-
fessor and department head.

Having been originally designed to
control a Spaceship, the computers are
particularly well suited for controlling

March, 1973

and monitoring sophisticated laboratory
instruments where absolute precision is
essential, Dr. Turner points out. They
will be valuable, for instance, in nuclear
measurement and in measurement of
energy impulses, he notes, and can be
programmed to discriminate among vari-
ous kinds of stimuli which occur both
simultaneously and over an extended
period of time. They can also perform
the same functions as the big IBM —
computation so complex that it cannot
be done in any other way and sophisticat-
ed data analysis.

There remains one hitch, though: nose-
cone computers don’t speak your usual
computer language. Their “alphabet,” so
to speak, has just eight characters, and
they have to be talked to in their own
peculiar way. So a Washington and Lee
mathematics professor, Dr. Robert A.

 

Roberts, is developing a special transla-
tion program which will use another of
the University’s computers. Operators
will be able to write programs in a more
commonly used computer language such
as Fortran, with the regular computer
then translating the instructions and
data into nosecone-computer language.

Nosecone computers require special
power supplies too, of course, and an-
other W&L math teacher, Dr. Robert B.
Brownell, agreed to equip them with
their own low-voltage, high-current DC
And the physics and
chemistry departments, with student as-
sistance, are building keyboards and con-
trol panels too.

So they do indeed demand a lot of
special treatment. But, the W&L scien-
tists, agree it’s still not a bad deal for $71.

—R.S.K.

power sources.

 

 

Dr, Edward F, Turner with Minuteman computer. (Above, detail of circuits).

The W&L coat of arms
a blend of heraldry

Reprinted from a 1931 Alumni Magazine

The first analytical study of Washington and Lee
University’s coat-of-arms has just been completed. Mrs.
D. H. Saunders, of Pine Bluff, Ark., long a student of
heraldry, conducted the research and submitted the read-
ing to the University.

The coat-of-arms has been used by the University
since 1902. Dr. William George Brown, professor of
Chemistry in 1901, created the shield by quartering the
Lee and Washington family arms. He used the Lee mot-
to, of the Coton Hall branch—“Non incautus futuri’—
(Not unmindful of the future), and the Washington
crest—the figure of a bird.

In her report, Mrs. Saunders quoted from Segoing,
using old French, which is reprinted below. Her report
follows:

On the first quarter of the shield appears the Latin
motto, “Omnia autem probate,’ which may be trans-
lated, “Everything, but proved.”

Heraldry is rather a fanciful, fantastic science; and
the meaning of the metals and colors are rendered ac-
cording to a quaint old French book, published in Paris
in 1652; the author is C. Segoing.

“C. Segoing.—Mercure armorial enseignment Les Prin-
cipes et elemens du Blazon des armoiries, selon L’ordre
et les termes qui se practiquent en cette Science.”

P. 17 and 18 “Les Metaux et couleurs qui se voyent
aux armoiries ont une signication et dentation particu-
liere, que je mets icy pour contenter les cruieux.”

Ist quarter: (one with the book) Learning and force.

2nd quarter: (Washington) Sincerity, constancy, and
deathless courage.

3rd quarter: (Lee) Sagacity, forethought, and justice,
loyalty and good reputation.

4th quarter: (one with rose) Faith and wealth.

Never lose sight of the military origin of heraldry.
The very names “armory” and “escutcheon” and “‘coat-
of-arms” should serve as a perpetual reminder.

“Armory” of course, indicates the connection of
heraldry with arms or weapons of war, “escutheon” and
“coat-of-arms” are terms which arose from the fact that
heraldic devices were stamped or painted upon the
shields or “escusson” and embroidered upon the “‘cotte

6

d’armes,” a textile garment worn over the armor, in the
fourteenth and fifteenth centuries. The term escutheon
is from old French, escut, shield.

The official Records of Courts-of-Arms are kept in
written form, not in form of design, as is commonly sup-
posed. The language is a sort of lingua-franca, moreover,
many of the words are so abbreviated as to be quite un-
intelligible to the lay mind.

These records describe three things:

(1) the color of the shield and its parts, if parted;

(2) the name, number and colors of the devices on
the shield, called charges;

(3) the crest and its color.

These are the three essential features. The motto, if
there be one, is recorded, but mottoes are alterable at
the will of the bearer, a fact not generally known.

From the above it will be seen that the records do
not specify the shape of the shield; hence it may be of
any shape. That is entirely a matter of taste.

There are two non-essential features of a complete
escutheon called “accessories,” namely the helmet and
the mantle (also called mantlings, or lambrequin).
Though not strictly necessary, these add greatly to the
dignity and beauty of a painting. The origin of the man-
tle was the lined cloak worn by knights to keep off the
weather; it hung from the helmet. It is the mantle which
permits the beauty and grace of the coat-of-arms to be
brought out, and it should be of the prevaling color and
metal of the shield. |

The true star of heraldry (estoile) has six wavy points,
Mullets, or stars of five points, signify shining virtue;
some authorities say the mullet is a knight’s spur, but
unfortunately it was used before the invention of spur-
rowels, and so is of uncertain origin. The mullet is also
used as a mark of distinction for cadency (descent or re-
lated families or younger son); the label is for the eldest
son, the crescent for the second son, and the mullet for
the third son.

The border (the ermine on the fourth quarter) is an
augmentation of honor.

The billet (Lee arms) is a small parallelogram us-
ually borne in numbers and set up on end; where there
are several, the armorial is described as “billetty’ (bil-
lette). The billet is one of a number of “sub-ordinate

WeL


Campus News

 

ODK-Lee’s Birthday Convocation:
a day of honors and memories

Washington and Lee combined its
Lee’s Birthday Convocation this year with
the annual Omicron Delta Kappa “tap-
ping” ceremonies, and by common consent
it was “a very nice day.”

Charles R. McDowell, Jr., columnist
and Washington correspondent for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch and a 1948
W&L graduate, was the speaker, bringing
his audience reminiscences of his life as
a boy in Lexington and a cogent analysis
of the 1972 national election.

Three noted Washington and Lee
alumni and a leader among W&L par-
ents were initiated into honorary mem-
bership in ODK. Also “tapped” were five
law students and 15 undergraduates. ODK
is the national
founded at Washington and Lee in 1914.

leadership fraternity
It now has chapters on more than 100
campuses.

McDowell is a son of Mrs. Catherine
McDowell of Lexington, secretary of the
W&L School of Law, and the late Prof.
Charles McDowell, Sr., who taught law
at W&L for 42 years until his death in
1968. The younger McDowell was “tap-
ped” into ODK while a student at the
University. He is the author of three
books and has had a distinguished ca-
reer in journalism.

The alumni honored were:

William B. Hopkins of Roanoke, ’42,
majority leader of the Virginia State Sen-
ate, lawyer, a leader of the moderate
Democratic forces in Virginia, and a
former Democratic National Committee-
man;

Dr. Harry Lyons of Richmond, ’22, who
was dean of the Medical College of Vir-
ginia School of Dentistry from 1951 until
his retirement in 1970 and a past presi-
dent of the American Dental Association,
the American College of Dentists, and

8

Sen. William B. Hopkins

 

Richard H. Turrell

the Virginia State Dental Association;

Richard H. Turrell of Short Hills, N. J.,
'49, senior vice president and treasurer of
New York Fiduciary Trust Co., director
of Lehigh Portland Cement Co., director
and treasurer Simons-Rock Co., past presi-
dent of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association and of the Robert E. Lee As-
sociates, a group of dedicated W&L sup-
porters.

Also honored was Richard T. Scruggs
of Birmingham, a past president of the

 

 

Richard T. Scruggs

Washington and Lee Parents’ Council,
president of Vulcan Metals Products Co.
and vice president of Alabama Metal Co.
and Southern Culvert Co. His son, Rich-
ard, Jr., was graduated from W&L in
1970.

McDowell discussed the predicaments
the national political parties find them-
selves in now that the election is over.
He made two points: First, that the De-
mocrats rose above their own constitu-
ency and in so doing abandoned to the

Wel

Republicans crucial elements of the coali-
tion they had put together under Frank-
lin Roosevelt in the 1930’s; and second,
that although the Republicans won one
of the three greatest landslides in history
they emerged from the election weaker
as a party than when they went in.

The main lesson to be gained by the
Democrats from the 1972 election, he
said, is that they must learn again about
coalition. The party cannot make it on
“elite liberalism.” The Republicans’ main
problem, he said, was their minority
Status as a party. He suggested this is be-
cause the GOP is “still mainly against

things.”
McDowell reminded the leaders and
future leaders in the audience that

“there’s a lot of injustice in the world
that needs fixing, a lot of the world’s
natural endowment that needs saving
fast, plenty of maintenance and repair on
the political system that needs doing in
both parties.

“Leaders of principle really are pre-
ferred. They have a better chance in
politics than most people seem to ima-
gine. But there must be more than prin-
ciple.

“You must be reasonable enough to re-
assure us that you are not a fool, com-
passionate enough to understand not just
our troubles but our prejudices, hopeful
enough to try to lift us out of our pre-
judices and self-interest by appealing to
the best in us, by showing what we can
do together.

“We know in our hearts that the main
thing we need is each other.”

Current students who were elected to
membership in ODK were:

School of Law—Thomas A. Gosse, John
M. Mason and Bruce L. Phillips, all of
Lexington; Frederick W. Batten of

March, 1973

h-
Charles McDowell and Cap’n Dick Smith, old

Grosse Point Farms, Mich., and Morris
KE. Flater of Augusta, Ga.

Undergraduate seniors—Marshall P.
Washburn of Lexington; G. Archer Frier-
son of Shreveport, La.; Richard H. Gra-
ham of Lutherville, Md.; W. Patrick
Hinely of Jacksonville, Fla.; Craig B.
Jones of Roswell, Ga.; Kurt M. Krum-
perman of Philadelphia; D. Mark Mc-
Minn of Columbia, Tenn.; Scott E. Rick-
off of Pensacola, Fla.; Ralph H. Smith of
Birmingham; J. Griffith Steel of Chapel
Hill, N.C., and Thomas G. VanAmburgh
of Dallas.

Undergraduate juniors—Stephen J.
Greene of Martinsville, Va.; Lewis F.
Powell III of Richmond; Carl R. Fletcher
of Atlanta, and Floyd W. Lewis of New
Orleans.

baseball buddies.

 

 

Life’s ‘Great’ Moments

 

Charlie McDowell tells this grand story.
Only he can truly tell it as he did at the
Founders’ Day-ODK Convocation. But it
is too good not to try to share it with a
larger audience. So with apologies to
Charlie and the reader, here it is:

Charlie grew up in Lexington, and
when he was about 10 years old he was
the batboy for the W&L baseball team,
then coached by Charlie’s childhood idol,
Cap’n Dick Smith.

W&L was playing the University of
Michigan in an early spring game. Charlie
shared the batboy duties with another
boy. He had finished working the first
half of the game and was walking behind

9

Campus News

 

homeplate as near the distant backstop
as he could get, admiring a slightly bro-
ken bat he had received for his work.
W&L was in bat. The score was tied.

Suddenly a loose ball came whizzing up
to Charlie. Charlie picked it up. The
huge Michigan catcher came charging
down on Charlie. Charlie tossed him the
ball. The Michigan catcher turned and
threw out a W&L runner, who had made
the turn at first base. What had happen-
ed was that the W&L batter had struck
out. The catcher had missed the ball.
The W&L runner had run to first and
was headed for second. Charlie’s assist to
the catcher had enabled Michigan to
pick off W&L’s potential winning runner.

Cap’n Dick rushed to homeplate. ‘The
Michigan coach rushed to homeplate. A
terrible argument ensued. And _ there
stood 10-year-old Charlie terrified. ‘The
question seemed to be whether Charlie
was a “natural hazard” or “something
that killed the ball when he touched it,”
the theory Cap’n Dick advanced. The
Michigan coach, pulled out a rule book
and cited “a long tortuous passage” about
‘‘a member of the dugout.” If Charlie was
a member of the dugout, the Michigan
coach argued, then the W&L runner was
out.

Cap’n Dick objected to such a “strange
interpretation” of the rules. Charlie says
he will never forget what happened next
as long as he lives.

The exasperated Michigan Coach said:
“Aw, come on, Dick, the kid’s your bat-
boy.”

And Cap’n Dick, Charlie’s lifelong
friend and hero, replied: “I never saw
the little s.o.b. before in my life!”

(Cap’n Dick says he remembers that he
won the argument, but he is not sure
who finally won the game.)

10

Dr. Charles F. Phillips in his book-lined office.

 

Nixon Picks Phillips

 

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor
of economics at Washington and Lee,
was named by President Nixon in Decem-
ber to a White House commission to
evaluate the nation’s policies on gam-
bling.

The commission is similar to one in
Virginia to which Dr. Phillips was ap-
pointed in 1971 by Gov. Linwood Hol-
ton, 42. Last year that commission voted,
with Dr. Phillips in the majority, to re-
commend that on-track betting be leg-
alized under close state supervision.

Dr. Phillips is one of seven public
members of the new White House Com-
mission. House and Senate leaders will
appoint eight additional members to the
group. Its report is due in four years.

A native of Geneva, N. Y., Phillips
earned the B.A. degree cum laude from

 

the University of New Hampshire and
the Ph.D. from Harvard University. He
was named to the Washington and Lee
faculty in 1959 and in 1966 became one
of the youngest men to be named full
professor at the University.

In addition to a full teaching schedule
—his fields of academic specialization are
basic economic principles, government
and business, regulated industries, and
business and society—he is a consultant
to many of the nation’s leading utilities
and other industries whose relations with
Washington are particularly complex.
Currently he is retained by American
the New
York Stock Exchange, Virginia Electric
and Power, the Chesapeake and Poto-
mac Telephone Co., the banking markets
section of the Federal Reserve System,

Telephone and Telegraph,

and eight other major industrial cor-
porations.
Dr. Phillips is the author of The

WeL

it

says

 

 

ty

.

of

niversi
the

x

oa
o
43
as
z

e

omics

on

 

 

Campus News

 

Washington and Lee professors. The set
—New Orleans, approximately 25 years
ago — was designed and constructed un-
der the supervision of O. K. Barnes,
drama instructor at the University.

Lee Kahn, assistant drama _ professor
and director of the University Theatre
(formerly known as the Troubadour
Theatre), says he chose Williams’ 1947
play partly for the challenge his actors
face in overcoming the Marlon Brando
stereotype.

 

Met Opera Broadcasts

WLUR-FM, the University’s radio sta-
tion, is carrying the full schedule of live
opera broadcasts from the Met in New

 

York again this winter and spring.

The season began Dec. 9 with a broad-
of Verdi's Otello. Operas are
broadcast each Saturday afternoon, and
the season continues through April 21.

WLUR broadcasts seven days a week
at 91.5 (FM). The station is a unit of
W&L’s journalism and communication’s

cast

department.

 

Rugel Fund Increased

 

Recently Jon Raymond Rugel’s mother
and stepfather, Mr. and Mrs. Harry Niel-
sen of Midland, Tex., made a sizeable
addition to the Jon Rugel Memorial
Fund, bringing the value of the fund to
nearly $16,000.

Jon Rugel graduated from W&L in
1948. As a student, he made an outstand-
ing record in campus leadership and in
scholarship. He was president of the In-
ternational Relations Club, secretary of
Phi Eta Sigma, a dormitory counselor,
and a member of the Student Body Exe-
cutive Committee. He was a member of

12

 

Jon Rugel

Kappa Sigma, Phi Beta Kappa, and
Omicron Delta Kappa.

After graduation, Jon was an honor
student at the School of Advanced Inter-
national Studies in Washington, D. C., a
branch of Johns Hopkins University. In
1951, he went abroad as a representative
of the American Export Lines and was
stationed in Genoa, Italy. On his way
home for his first vacation, he died aboard
ship on Nov. 27, 1953.

Members of Jon’s family and a number
of friends established a scholarship in his
memory to help worthy young men at-
tend Washington and Lee.

 

Speakers’ Program Begun

 

The debate team at Washington and
Lee has established a speaker’s program
under which members will deliver talks
or full debates before civic clubs and

other organizations.

Two of the talks are given by M. An-
derson Bradshaw, a senior from Norge,
Va., one on the controversial question of
the safety of blood transfusions, the other
a lively and informative recollection of
his experiences at Boys’ State both as a
participant and later as a counselor.

In addition, Washington and Lee’s de-
bate team can be booked to argue both
sides of the standard debate topic for
nationwide competition this year: wheth-
er America needs socialized medical care.

There is no charge for talks or de-
bates booked through the new program
other than travel expenses. Dr. Halford
R. Ryan, assistant professor of English,
and coach of the debate team, suggests
that bookings be made at least a month
in advance. Inquiries may be directed to
him by phone or mail at W&L.

Meanwhile, the debate team brought
home two more trophies from the annual
Virginia Forensic Association ‘Tourna-
ment at William and Mary, in which
teams from nine institutions participat-
ed. The
place wins in the novice team and indivi-
dual speaker categories.

trophies represented second-

 

Tales of Ole Lexington

 

Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor of
history, is the editor of a book of local
reminiscences, Mrs. McCulloch’s Stories
of Ole Lexington, published in Decem-
ber by McClure Press.

The book, already a bestseller in Rock-
bridge County, is the result of a Robert
E. Lee Research project in oral history.
Working with Dr. Turner was Daniel S.
Shapiro of Richmond, a 1971 cum laude
graduate.

With the assistance of two current

Wel

W&L students—Rolf Piranian, a junior
from Oreland, Pa., and John F. Zink, a
sophomore from Louisville—Dr. Turner
transcribed and edited the tapes of Mrs.
McCulloch’s conversations into 37 vig-
nettes.

In his preface, Dr. Turner notes that
he was aided by Dr. Sidney M. B. Coull-
ing, professor of English, in matters of
style.

Mrs. McCulloch, who died July 7, 1971,
at the age of 94, was born Ruth Ander-
son, the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Wil-
liam A. Anderson of Lexington. Her
father was a member of Washington and
Lee’s Board of Trustees for 45 years un-
til his death in 1930, and was Rector of
the Board from 1914. He was Attorney-
General of Virginia from 1902 until 1910

 

March, 1973

Dr. Charles W. Turner with copy of Mrs. McCulloch’s Stories of Ole Lexington.

and also served in the state Senate and as
a delegate to the 1901-02 Constitutional
Convention.

The Lexington chapter of the Associa-
tion for the Preservation of Virginia An-
tiquities is named for Mrs. McCulloch,
who was extremely active in historical or-
ganizations in the Rockbridge area.

The book is available to alumni at a
discount through the W&L_ Bookstore
($4.05 plus postage and sales tax).

Dr. Turner, well known in the fields
of Civil War and frontier history, is the
author of two earlier books, Chessie’s
Road, a history of the Chesapeake and
Ohio Railroad, and Mississippi West, a
textbook. He has also written a large
number of scholarly and general articles
in American history.

A member of Washington and Lee’s
faculty since 1946, he holds degrees from
the Universities of Richmond and Minne-
sota. He has been president, board mem-
ber and librarian of the Rockbridge His-
torical Society and editor of its Proceed-
ings.

 

Riegel Book Reissued

 

 

A major book on propaganda written
in 1934 by O. W. Riegel, professor of
journalism, has been reissued as part of
an important new series on international
communications. He is also the author
of a review article in the first issue of a
new magazine, Film Critic.

The book, Mobilizing for Chaos: The
New Propaganda, is part of the new 31-
volume series just published by Arno
Press, a subsidiary of the New York
Times. Original publisher of the book
was the Yale University Press. In the
book, Prof. Riegel first developed the
thesis that the media throughout the
world were gravely endangered by na-
tionalistic governments and big business,
which seemed to be increasing their in-
fluence and control over communica-
tions.

Prof. “Berlin: The
Three-Headed Bear,’ comments on more

Riegel’s article,

than a dozen motion pictures screened at
the 1972 Berlin Film Festival. He cus-
tomarily attends such international cine-
ma competitions in Europe and America.

Film Critic, the new magazine in which
the article appears, is a publication of
the American Federation of Film Socie-
ties, of which Prof. Riegel is a director.

A member of the journalism faculty
since 1930, Prof. Riegel is an authority
in international communications, especi-
ally propaganda and cinematic arts.

13

Athletics

McHenry is head football coach;

Leslie to direct the offense

Athletic Director William D. (Bill)
McHenry has become head football coach
at Washington and Lee, succeeding E.
Graham (Buck) Leslie, who remains on
the coaching staff as offensive coordina-
tor.

The change took place in January,
when Leslie asked to be relieved of the
head coach’s responsibilities and to be
reassigned in the department. He said in
a letter to President Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley that he had reached his decision “as
a result of long and careful considera-
tion.”

President Huntley appointed McHenry
to the post, and McHenry’s first action
was to ask Leslie to become offensive co-
ordinator and be in charge of the Gen-
erals’ offensive backs.

“Some of Washington and Lee’s great-
est seasons were recorded when Buck
was in charge of our offense under the
late Lee McLaughlin,” McHenry said. “I
am happy that he will be helping me in
this same capacity.”

President Huntley said he was pleased
with the arrangement, adding: “Wash-
ington and Lee is fortunate to be able to
replace Coach Leslie promptly with a
man of Coach McHenry’s demonstrated
ability and experience, and I am happy
that he has agreed to accept this addi-
tional responsibility. We are grateful to
be able to retain Coach Leslie in a capa-
city in which he has served so splendidly
in the past.”

McHenry, 40, an outstanding football
and lacrosse player at Washington and
Lee in 1950-54, was athletic director and
head football coach for 10 years at Leb-
anon Valley College before becoming the
Generals’ athletic director in June, 1971.
His football teams at Lebanon Valley
compiled a 44-34-1 record, and he won

14

Buck Leslie and Bill McHenry take on new football assignments.

 

one Middle Atlantic Conference Cham-
pionship and tied for another. McHenry
previously coached at Pennsylvania Mili-
tary College and Williams College.

Leslie, 47, also a Washington and Lee
alumnus, joined the Generals’ football
staff in 1959 at a time when W&L had
won only two games in four seasons. With
Coach McLaughlin, he developed a po-
tent offense that brought the Generals’
successive seasons of 3-4-1, 8-0-1,
9-0, 8-1, and 5-3 over the next five years.

When McLaughlin died in an accident
in mid-August, 1968, Leslie took on the
difficult assignment. of directing the team
as acting head coach that year. Early in
1969, he was named head coach. His
overall record for the past five seasons
was 16-28-1.

His 1971 team finished strongly, win-
ning four of its last five games, including
an upset victory over a highly successful
Coast Guard Academy team. With a vet-
eran team returning for 1972, expecta-
tions were high for the Generals’ first
winning season since 1967. After an im-
pressive opening victory that snapped
Westminster College’s 22-game winning
streak, the Generals were able to muster
only two wins among their remaining
eight games.

Washington and Lee’s new head coach,
McHenry, was an outstanding center on
the last of the Generals’ football teams
to compete in the NCAA’s major univer-
sity division, prior to the University’s
1954 decision to abandon athletic grants-
in-aid and to compete at the college divi-
sion level. McHenry played in the 1953
Blue-Gray Game and the 1954 College
All-Star Game against the Detroit Lions.
He was a sixth-round draft choice of
the Washington Redskins, and played
two years of service football at Ft. Jack-

March, 1973

son, S.C., before entering the coaching
profession.

McHenry is a native of Swarthmore,
Pa., and holds a master’s degree in educa-
tion from the University of Pennsylvania
in addition to the BS.
from Washington and Lee.

in commerce

Leslie played quarterback for Lexing-
ton High School, and after World War II
service passed up college football at
Washington and Lee to concentrate on
outstanding ability as a baseball pitcher.
He graduated in 1949 with a B.A. in po-
litical science, and immediately embarked
on a distinctive coaching career at Na-
tural Bridge High School, where his foot-
ball teams won 65 games while losing
only 26.

 

‘Coach of Year Emmer

 

For the second year in a row, Washing-
ton and Lee University’s lacrosse coach
has been named national ‘Coach of the
Year.” But for John S. (Jack) Emmer,
the honor was awarded for his accom-
plishments last year at Cortland State
University in New York.

Emmer was named 1972 ‘Coach of the
Year’ for the college division in Decem-
ber during the annual awards banquet
of the U. S. Intercollegiate Lacrosse As-
sociation at Albany, N. Y. Last year,
while at Cortland, Emmer coached the
Red Dragons to a 14-2 record, including
victories over major powers Army, Navy,
and Cornell, and to the semi-finals of the
NCAA national championship _tourna-
Cortland ranked No. 1 in the
college division for the second straight
year.

ment.

In August, Emmer was named head la-
crosse and assistant football coach at
Washington and Lee, succeeding Richard

 

Lacrosse Coach of the Year Jack Emmer.

E. (Dick) Szlasa, the 1971 national
“Coach of the Year” who resigned to ac-
cept the head lacrosse coaching position
at Navy.

At Washington and Lee, Emmer in-
herits a top-ranked team which is expect-
ed to have another successful season this
spring. Last year, under Coach Szlasa,
the Generals won the South Atlantic
Division Championship en route to a 12-
3 record, and reached the quarterfinals
of the NCAA national tournament.

15

Mar.

Mar.

Mar.

April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
May

May

May

Mar.
Mar.
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
May
May
May
May

April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April
April

16

Spring events

1973 BASEBALL SCHEDULE

17—Apprentice (2) ou... Home
r, 20—Hampden-Sydney  .............+ Away
24—William & Mary (2) «0... Away
26—Muhlenberg ................. ee Home
4—Southern Conn. .........0...00 Home
6—Valdosta State 0.0.0.0... Away
7—Valdosta State .........ce Away
9—Eckerd College ...........:- Away
10—Eckerd College ..............008. Away
11—Fla. Inst. of Tech ..........0.... Away
12—Fla. Inst. of Tech ................ Away
18—Oneonta State... Home
19—Madison oo... eee Home
23—Hampden-Sydney .................. Home
26—Lynchburg ee Away
27-28—VCAA Playoffs ..........0.0.0. Home
29—Old Dominion (2) ............ Home
4—Bridgewater (2)... Away
GWE ieee Home
Wed 2-+-GAC oe ae Home
1973 LACROSSE SCHEDULE

10—Morgan State .......... ee Home

99.95—Hero’s Tournament ... Baltimore

PIROANOKE 5... rs ve Away
10=Princeton © ........6.00... ees Away
12—C. W. Post ......... Rn ee Away
14—Trowson ooo. Away
TB——DOke co il eG dee Home
21—Washington College ................ Away
24—North Carolina ..........0.......8. Away
28—William and Mary ................ Home

2—Franklin and Marshall ......... Away
5—Baltimore University ............ Home
9—Randolph-Macon _................... Home
13—Virginia oon. Home
1973 TENNIS SCHEDULE
17—Morris Harvey... V.M.I.
5—Campbell oo... Away
6—Harvard oo... Davidson

T—Davidson oo...iccccecccccccccessetetteeee Away

9—South Carolina ...................5. Away
LO—EMOTLY 000. Away
L1—Eckerd ou......ccccccececceteeeeeeee: Away
13—Florida Southern .................... Away
L6—VMLI. ooo ccc ceeetteeeeeees Home
17—Bridgewater oo... Home
18—Hampden-Sydney ...............5 Home
20—Hampton Institute .................. Away

at
Wa&L

March 7, 8, 9

—Glasgow Endowment Program: ‘““The Woman of Letters

in the Modern World.” Participants include Mary Mc-
Carthy, author; Penelope Gilliatt, film critic and author;
Barbara Deming, author; Carolyn Kizer, poet; Denise

—Convocation, Phi Beta Kappa/Society of Cincinnati.

Speaker: Dr. Edgar F. Shannon, W&L ’39, retiring presi-

—Anniversary Spring Reunions. Academic and Law Classes

CAC Spring Sport Tournament in tennis, golf, track,

Levertov, poet.
March 22
dent, University of Virginia.
March 29-April 4—Winter term final examinations—Undergraduate.
April 4-April 16—Undergraduate Spring vacation.
April 6-April 16—Law School Spring vacation.
May 11, 12, 13
of 1923, 1933, 1948, 1958, 1963, and the Old Guard.
Annual meeting of Alumni Association.
Law Day and John Randolph ‘Tucker Lecture.
Moot Court Competition.
baseball.
Lacrosse: W&L vs. University of Virginia.

—Undergraduate Spring term examinations.

May 21-29 —Law School final examinations.
May 26-28

May 30 —Baccalaureate Service.

May 31 —ROTC Commissioning Ceremonies.

Commencement.

April 21—Old Dominion... Away
April 24—Virgimia oe Homestead
sole jedaon sbneh GG ae Home

April 26—V.P.I.
April 27-29—VCAA ‘Tournament
Harrisonburg, Va.

May 1—E. Mennonite ........:ccee Away
May 2—Roanoke  ........ cee Home
May 4—Navy occ Away
May 5—TOWSON oo... Away
May 8—Hampden-Sydney .............-. Away
May 9-—Emory and Henry .............-.- Home
May 11-12—CAC ‘Tournament ............. Home
1973 TRACK SCHEDULE
Mar. 20—Shepherd  .........: cee Home
Mar. 22—Madison  .........:::ccceeee Home
Mar. 26—Frostburg State ..............) Home
April 11—Bridgewater ..........e Away
April 14—Roanoke oo... Away

April 17—Lynchburg oo... Away
PE geri ie eee Away
April 24—State Meet ........0 ee Away
May 1—Hampden-Sydney .................... Home
May 8—E. Mennonite ...........0.. Home
May tht GA ii ics. Home
1973 GOLF SCHEDULE
Mar. 23—Lynchburg College ............... Away
April 19—Bridgewater ......... Away
April 23—VCAA Tournament .......... Roanoke
April 24—Madison & Virginia ................ Home
April 26—Roanoke College, Clinch U.,
Hampden-Sydney ............ Roanoke

April 30—State Intercollegiate
‘Tournament

May 2—Old Dominion .........0.00000.... Home
May 5—Shepherd College .................... Away
May 11-12—CAC Golf Tournament ... Home

WeL

Alumni committee is named
to choose trustee candidates

In 1969, Washington and Lee University authorized
the nomination of an alumnus to the University Board
of ‘Trustees. The procedure, established by the Alumni
Association and approved by the University Trustees,
provided for a selection process every two years. The
alumni nominee is to serve a six-year term, and the pro-
cedure incorporates a balloting of the full alumni mem-
bership to vote on one of three nominees.

The year 1973 represents the third time the Associa-
tion has undergone this procedure. ‘The two members of
the University Board of ‘Trustees now serving and who
were selected under this process are E. Marshall Nuckols,
Jr., °33 BA, ’35 LLB, and E. Waller Dudley, ’43 BA, ’47
LLB.

By action of the Alumni Board of Directors, in their
meeting of October, 1972, the president of the Alumni
Association appointed a nominating committee of not
more than nine men to assist in developing the nominee
candidates who are to be considered by the Alumni
Board of Directors for places on the ballot. Balloting is
to take place by special mailing in July, 1973. Alumni
are encouraged to submit to members of this nominating
committee suggested names of outstanding alumni for
consideration.

‘Those alumni named by the president to the Nomi-
nating Committee are as follows:

Mr. Cyrus V. Anderson
(Chairman)

PPG Industries, Inc.
One Gateway Center
Pittsburgh, Pa. 15222

Mr. Gordon Gooch
Baker & Botts

One Shell Plaza
Houston, Tex. 77002

Mr. Samuel B. Hollis

Federal Compress and
Warehouse Co.

Box 77

Memphis, ‘Tenn. 38101

Mr. W. H. Keland
P.O. Box 622
Racine, Wis. 53401

March, 1973

Mr. J. Thomas Touchton

Suite 2110 Exchange
National Bank Bldg.

610 Florida Ave.

Tampa, Fla. 33602

Mr. Robert Van Buren
1096 Oakland Ave.
Plainfield, N.J. 07060
Mr. Jack Watson

300 Lakeside Dr.
Oakland, Calif. 94604

Mr. Richard C. Whiteford
305 W. Pennsylvania Ave.
‘Towson, Md. 21204

 

 

A Boost for Student Financial Aid

 

 

Director of Student Financial Aid Bill Mules and Alumni Secre-
tary Bill Washburn admire a Washington and Lee Chair, the sale
of which by the Alumni Association has produced thousands of
dollars to help worthy young men attend the University. Profit
from the chair sales goes to the John Graham Memorial Scholar-
ship Fund. Recently the Alumni Association turned over to the
University a check for $3,000, bringing the total in the Graham
Scholarship Fund to $17,000.

17

Class notes

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, 714.

Price $47.00 f.o.b.

Gardner, Massachusetts

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450
The normal shipping interval is

five to six weeks after the receipt of
the order.

 

 

 

18

1902

Jupce Witt1am H. Brown was singularly
honored and cited at a luncheon Nov. 16,
1972 by the Oklahoma County Bar Assn.
Before completing his law degree at Wash-
ington and Lee, Brown served a term in the
Mississippi Legislature. Admitted to the bar
in 1902, Judge Brown opened his practice
in Hobart, Okla., that same year. In 1911, he
was elected Judge of the District Court of
the Fifth Judicial District. He remained on
the bench until 1919. From 1929 to 1931
Judge Brown was an Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral of Oklahoma and was Municipal Coun-
selor for Oklahoma City. In 1933 he served
as attorney for the Oklahoma State Corpora-
tion Commission. Judge Brown left public
service in 1934 and has continued law prac-
tice. Probably the most significant litigation
in which Judge Brown was an active partici-
pant was the parking meter cases in the
1930’s. He developed the landmark legal
theory adopted by the Oklahoma Supreme

Court.
1913

BURNLEY R. ELAM, a prominent executive in
the insurance business in Hartford, Conn.,
died Dec. 24, 1972. A native of Virginia, he
had lived most of his life in Hartford and
retired several years ago to Phoenix, Ariz.

119

CureF Justice E. Howarp McCates retired
from the Louisiana Supreme Court Dec. 22,
1972 with ceremonies in New Orleans spon-
sored by the State Bar Assn. McCaleb passed
the bar examination in February, 1920, and
was appointed an assistant U. S. Attorney.
His judicial career began in February, 1936,
when he was appointed by Gov. James A.
Noe to the Court of Appeals. He was elected
to the Supreme Court, took office on Jan.
1, 1947, and in 1970 became chief justice of
the Court. McCaleb received plaudits and
best wishes from each of the justices on the

Supreme Court.
1923

Rosert H. Carr, director of the Jasper, Ala.,
Housing Authority, is still very active. He is
a land agent for a coal company in Walker
County and also manages a lumber broker-

age business.
1924

Tuomas M. Bemis, a standout on the Gen-
erals’ football team in his college days, is re-
tired and lives in Prescott, Ark. For many

years he was in the lumber and _ banking

business. More recently he was in the real |

estate business from which he has retired.

THe Rev. A. EMERSON JOHNSON has recently
retired after more than 43 years as a Pres-
byterian minister. After graduation from
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond,
he became pastor of the Monterey, Va.,
group of Presbyterian churches in 1929 and
continued in that post until 1963. Since
1963, Johnson had been pastor of the Ty-
gart’s Valley Parish at Huttonsville, W.Va.
He and his wife now live in Staunton, Va.

Since his retirement from Scott Paper Co.,
FRANCIS W. PLowMAN and his wife have
traveled extensively. They spend consider-
able time in Barbados. Plowman is a former
president of the W&L Alumni Association.

GrorGE S. SPRAGINS is a retired vice president
and branch manager of Bank of America,
Inc., and lives in Arcadia, Calif. He and his
wife are proud of their son and daughter
and five grandchildren.

Loch

CuHartes S. HEILIG is managing the Taylor
Mattress Co. of Salisbury, N.C., and is
treasurer of the North Carolina Lutheran

Synod.
1926

After 45 years of teaching, PRor. Harris C.
Moore, Sr., has retired from El Camino
College as professor emeritus. He has written
two books A Biology Lab Manual and A
Syllabus for Biology.

EMMETT W. MACCORKELE, JR., retired execu-
tive with Air Reduction Pacific Co., is now
associated with Miller Properties Investment
Co. of Palo Alto, Calif.

1928

GERALD F. HOorRINE is a director of the Alex-
andria, Va., Red Cross, a member of the
board of governors of St. Stephens Episcopal
School, a member of the Alexandria Hospital
Corp. and assistant treasurer, Immanuel
Church-on-the-Hill.

£29

Harry M. WILSON retired Aug. 15, 1971 as
vice president and trust officer of the
Florida National Bank in Jacksonville.

ARTHUR D. SIMMONS, a furniture business-

WeL

rt

 

 

MOBILE. The alumni of Mobile
and Lee bask a
occasion was held Friday, ments
Dec. 29, 1972, at the Athelstan Club in made

man in Adams, M
First A ° a7] a 2

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and currently a resident of Lexington, has
been named to the Board of Overseers of
Lynchburg College. For many years, he was
a member of the staff of radio station
WWOD in Lynchburg, where he was a time
salesman and also wrote programs. One of
his programs, “A City Grows,” ran from 1947
until 1952. He was also associated with
WLVA-TV and was a land developer. He is
now retired. Gooch is interested in the W&L
radio station WLUR and the Department

of Journalism.
1932

ALLAN S. DELAND has retired from service
with the federal government and lives in
East Dorset, Vt. In ski season he works part
time at Big Bromley.

E. CARLYLE LyNcH has retired from teaching
drafting and industrial arts. He now is mak-
ing measured drawings of rare furniture an-
tiques. The plans can be used to make exact
reproductions.

DAvip GEORGE PRICE retired in January, 1973,
after 38 years of service in the federal gov-
ernment, particularly with the U. S. Navy
Bureau of Personnel.

THE Rev. WILLIAM L. WOODALL is retired
from active ministry with the United Pres-
byterian Church. He nevertheless stays busy
and is doing considerable traveling while
studying the Revolutionary War.

1933

WILLIAM J. Brooks, JR., who was with Gen-
eral Motors Corp. for 33 years, is now re-
tired and living in Dallas. He and his wife
are doing considerable traveling.

J. FREDERICK Cook, formerly in the retail
hardware business in Waynesboro, Va., is
now a real estate broker and operates the
Cook Land Co.

1934

GrorcE L. REYNOLDS was recently elected
president of the New Jersey Industrial De-
velopment Assn. for 1973.

After four years as Secretary of State of
West Virginia, ROBERT D. BAILEY is back in
Pineville in the private practice of law.

1935

EDWARD P. MINCHER has retired as Revisor
of Statutes of the State of New Jersey. He
continues as legal counsel of the Medical

20

Society of New Jersey and the New Jersey

Dental Assn.
1936

GEORGE W. HARRISON, a retired lieutenant
commander in the U.S. Army, has completed
35 years with Equitable Life Assurance Soc-
iety. He is a past commander of American
Legion Post 60.

Dr. KENNETH G. MACDONALD is on the
Board of Governors of the Southern West
Virginia Automobile Assn. and a member of
the boards of the Charleston Boat Club and
the Buckskin Council of Boy Scouts.

STtuAaRT T. MILLER has been transferred from
Phoenix, Ariz., to Atlanta by Western Elec-
tri¢ Co. He is in charge of the Atlanta tele-
phone cable manufacturing plant which con-
tains a cable engineering center and a branch
lab of Bell Telephone.

1937

CHARLES A. BUTTERWORTH, JR., is fiscal and
securities analyst for the Florida State De-
partment of ‘Transportation.

Davip B. WHARTON is author of a new book,
The Alaska Gold Rush, recently published by
the Indiana University Press. Wharton is a
former newsman and college professor. He is
a lawyer by training and a former member
of the United States foreign service. He is
author of In the Lexicon of Youth, Sound
of Tokay, and Thugs on Strike.

JOHN M. Jones, III, has recently been named
a member of the editorial committee of the
Southern Newspaper Publisher’s Assn. The
editorial committee is one of three _ basic
standing committees of the association.

ANDREW H. BAur, a successful industrial de-
veloper in St. Louis, has established the
James A. Baur Memorial Research Fund at
the University of Virginia Medical School
and Hospital in the field of brain research.
The program is endorsed by the Alfred P.
Sloan Foundation.

1938.

For six years after graduation, WENDELL R.
Sroors was with the FBI. Since then he has
been in the food brokerage business in Kan-
sas City. He is now president of Shurtenda
Foods, Inc., with branches in Kansas City
and in Cedartown, Ga. He and his wife,
Lois, have four children and the family lives
in Shawnee Mission, Kan.

 

1939

H. PRESTON HENSHAW, assistant vice presi-
dent of sales in the coal traffic department
of the C&kO—B&O railroads, has assumed re-
sponsibility for all coal sales and_ services
offices. Henshaw started in the coal business
in Huntington, W.Va., joining the C&O in
1950 and going to Cleveland in 1959 as
special assistant in the office of the vice
president for coal traffic and development.
He is a member of the West Virginia Re-
gional Exports Expansion Council, an agency
of the U.S. Department of Commerce, and
is a director and member of the executive
committee of Bituminous Coal Research of
Pittsburgh, Pa.

W. ARTHUR BEETON is associated with the
American Consulate General’s. office in
Frankfurt, Germany. He is the senior FAA
representative.

The Rev. BENJAMIN R. LAWTON is president
of a Baptist Theological Seminary in Tor-
ino, Italy.

JAMeEs A. SALTSMAN is with the Civil Aero-
nautic Board as Deputy Director, Bureau of
Operating Rights. He and his wife, Brooks,
have a son and daughter. The family lives
in Chevy Chase, Md.

JAMEs E. Murpuy, after 31 years as an execu-
tive with Clark Equipment Co. of Battle
Creek, Mich., has retired. He and his wife
now live in Sarasota, Fla.

Roy S. THOMPSON, JR. will continue as presi-
dent of the American Southern Insurance
Group, Inc., of Atlanta. The firm was recent-
ly acquired by the George Washington Corp.
of Jacksonville, Fla. The corporation is a
diversified financial services and insurance
holding company which now owns three
life insurance companies, two insurance mar-
keting companies, a financial services com-
pany, and is the advisor to Fidelity Mort-
gage Investors, a major real estate invest-
ment trust listed on the New York Stock

Exchange.
1940

Jackson G. AKIN was re-elected a trustee of
the Albuquerque Academy for Boys. He was
also named executive vice president of the
firm of Rodey, Dickason, Sloan, Akin and
Robb, a_ professional association Consisting

of 26 lawyers.
194]

Harry L. SMITH is assistant for public infor-

Wer

 

J. A. Philpott, *45

mation and publications to the Virginia
State Superintendent for Public Instruction.

TOM BROCKENBROUGH continues to serve as
professor of civil engineering and assistant
dean of the College of Engineering at the
University of Delaware.

‘THEODORE A. BRUINSMA is president of Har-
vest Industries, Inc., a diversified company
in animal health care and feed products. He
also owns a horse and cattle ranch in Robles,
Calif.

CHARLES LANDRUM, JRr., is a fellow of the In-
ternational Academy of Trial Lawyers. An
attorney in Lexington, Ky., he is president
of the Fayette County Bar Assn., the recipi-
ent of the 1971 Outstanding Lawyer Service
Award from the Kentucky State Bar, and
curator of Translyvania University. He is
also a regular visiting lecturer at the Uni-
versity of Kentucky College of Law.

WILLIAM LEE SHANNON is on _ the Shelby-
ville, Ky., School Board and is treasurer of
the Old Masons Home of Kentucky. He is
also a member of the board of the Ken-
tucky Baptist Hospital in Louisville of which
another W&L man, Norm Iler, 37, is chair-

| 1949

Dr. RoBert L. PINcK, a radiologist in New
York, was recently elected vice president of
the medical staff of the Long Island College
Hospital. He has also been recently elected
to fellowship in the American College of

Physicians,
1943

BARTON W. Morris, Jr., has been named
published of the Roanoke Times and Roa-
noke World-News effective April 1. As pub-
lisher, he will have responsibility for and
authority over all news and editorial depart-
ments on both papers. Currently he is vice
president and executive editor. Morris’ pro-
motion was announced as part of a general
reorganization of Landmark Communica-
tions Inc., parent firm of the Times-World
Corp. of Roanoke. Morris succeeds M. W.
Armistead III as publisher. Armistead—who
received an honorary Doctor of Laws degree
in 1967 from Washington and Lee—becomes
chief operating officer and executive vice
president of Landmark, which owns two
newspapers, two radio stations and a TV
Station in Norfolk and two papers and a
TV station in Greensboro, N.C., in addition
to the two Roanoke newspapers.

March, 1973

Secretary of the Navy John Warner

Depariment of Defense Distinguished

with former Secretary of Defense
Melvin R. Laird at ceremonies at
which Warner was presented the

Public Service Medal.

EDWIN ZELNICKER, JR., is executive vice presi-
dent of Fry-Zelnicker-Mitchell Insurance
Agency, Inc. He is also chairman of the
board of the Mobile, Ala., Public Library,
past president of the Mobile Chamber Music
Society, the Springhill Avenue Temple, and
the Mobile Assn. of Independent Insurance

Agents.
1944

JAMES CALEB STANFIELD, an attorney in Paris,
fll., is director and general counsel for the
Edgar County Bank and Trust Co. He raises
cattle as a side line.

1945

THE Rev. NEAL N. HERNDON, Jr., is serving
the Bethlehem Presbyterian Church in Corn-
wall, N. Y.

WiLt1AM C. Mowris is employed by Eastern
Kodak in sales division in the states of Wash-
ington and Alaska. He and his wife have
three daughters.

J. ALVIN PHILPoTT, a member of the board
of directors of Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc. and vice president of Burlington House
Furniture in Lexington, N.C., has been re-
elected to the board of directors of the
Southern Furniture Manufacturers Assn.
Philpott joined United Furniture Corp., now
Burlington House Furniture, in 1947 and has
served as secretary-treasurer, sales manager
and vice president. He is past chairman of
the Lexington City School Board, chairman
of the Uwharrie Council of Boy Scouts, and
a trustee of the Lexington Memorial Hospi-
tal.

Dr. ROBERT M. SINSKEY is medical director of
Southern California Lion’s Eye Institute in
Santa Monica, Calif.

1946

WILLIAM A. MAGEE has completed 25 years
with Shenandoah Life Insurance Co. He is
now vice president for investments.

1947

Democratic Sen. WILLIAM T. BROTHERTON,
JR., has been elected president of the West
Virginia Senate. Brotherton is an attorney

in Charleston.
1948

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Jostan P. Rowe, III,
a son, Josiah P., IV, on April 28, 1972. Rowe
retired in September, 1972, as mayor of

 

Fredericksburg, Va., after serving eight years.

RICHARD C. VIERBUCHEN, vice president of
Washington Gas Light Co., is chairman of
the 1973 Cherry Blossom Festival. Accord-
ing to Vierbuchen, there are plans to re-
place the traditional theme of the queen
and her princesses with a brand new, design-
ed-for-television extravaganza called “The
College Girl of the Year Pageant.” The ten-
tative package was worked out by a New
York public relations consultant and called
for contests on college and university cam-
puses in all 50 states to find the nation’s
“top” college girls. The decision for this
plan has been postponed at least for the
year 1973 because of too little time to or-
ganize the complex selection setup.

WALTER B. Porter, editor and publisher of
the Culpeper, Va., Star-Exponent, has been
named civilian aide to the Secretary of the
Army for Virginia.

1949

Epwarp P. BERLIN, JR., has been promoted
to editor of the News-Virginian. The
Waynesboro newspaper recently received, for
the fifth time, the School Bell Award, given
by the Virginia Education Assn. for out-
standing coverage of public education.

Dr. Everett L. TAyYLor, Jr., has left his pri-
vate practice of medicine in Sparta, N.C.,
and now holds the position of emergency
room physician at the Moore Memorial
Hospital.

Navy Secretary JOHN W. WARNER was pre-
sented the Department of Defense Distin-
guished Public Service Medal by Defense
Secretary Melvin R. Laird on January 10,
1973. The citation accompanying the medal
praises Warner for his “superb leadership
to the Department of the Navy during a
difficult period of changing priorities, mis-
sions, and resources.” The citation also States,
“In addition to his Navy duties, he has ably
represented the Department of Defense in in-
ternational law of sea negotiations, and the
President of the United States in negotiating
an Executive Agreement on Incidents at Sea
between the United States and the Soviet
Union.

PETER D. DEBoER, who has served DuPont in
Waynesboro for 24 years as purchasing su-
pervisor, has been promoted and _ transferred
to Richmond where he will be regional buy-
er. He and his wife, June, have two sons

21

 

O. M. Mendell, ’50

and one daughter.

F. DoNALD HARRISON, having recently merged
his Dallas-based insurance agency with Fred
S. James & Co., is now vice president and
secretary of the firm, one of the largest na-
tional insurance brokerage firms. He is also
vice president of the Dallas Insurance Assn.
and membership chairman of the Dallas
Assn. of Insurance Agents.

1950

Dr. DonALp D. Hook, associate professor of
modern language, Trinity College in Hart-
ford, Conn., has co-authored two new Ger-
man textbooks, one for Scribners and one
for Van Nostrand Reinhold Co. The books
are expected to appear in early 1973. Pro-
fessor Hook is the co-author of four other
textbooks.

Dr. CHARLES F. A. McCLUuER is now in his
12th year in the practice of dermatology in
Ft. Worth, Tex.

Dr. Rospert H. MAuck is an orthopedic sur-
geon in Martinsville, Va. He is married to
the former Langhorne Sydnor of Lynchburg.

OLIVER M. MENDELL, formerly regional vice
president in the mid-town Manhattan area,
has been promoted to the position of senior
vice president of Chemical Bank, New York,
with increased responsibility in the area of
the bank’s metropolitan business. Mendell
joined Chemical in 1958 as assistant secre-
tary. He became vice president in 1962, when
he was put in charge of the bank’s branch at
50 Court Street in Brooklyn. His outside af-
filiations include member of the board of
the Selective Service System; a past director
of Cartier, Inc.; co-treasurer and director of
UJA of Greater New York; a member of the
President’s Council, Brandeis University, and
a member of the Committee on Legacies and
Bequests of the American National Red
Cross.

Joun H. McCorMaAck, Jr., has become execu-
tive vice president of Atlantic National Bank
of Jacksonville, Fla. He joined Atlantic Na-
tional in 1957 as assistant vice president. In
1962 he became vice president and in 1969
became first vice president.

ROBERT F. SILVERSTEIN has served two terms
as city councilman in Charleston, W.Va. He
was also elected to the Republican State
Executive Committee for 1972.

Epwarp P. Tuomas is president and gen-

22

 

J. K. Boardman, ’51

eral manager of Terrace Lanes, Inc. in Fred-
erick, Md. The firm operates two ten-pin
bowling centers. Thomas is beginning his
third term in the Maryland Senate. He serv-
ed as State Chairman of the Committee to
Re-Elect the President.

195]

RoBert W. KNuDSEN is with the Photograph
Division of DuPont as industrial manager in
the 13-state Midwest Region. He and his
wife, Mary Jane, have six children and the
family lives in Sheffield Lake, Ohio.

JoHN K. BOARDMAN, Jr., president of Sam
Moore Furniture Industries in Bedford, Va.,
has been re-elected to the board of directors
of the Southern Furniture Manufacturers
Assn. Prior to joining Sam Moore Furniture
in 1957, Boardman was employed by the
Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co. He
served as production manager and _ plant
manager at Sam Moore Furniture before
becoming president.

Tuomas C. MartTIN, president of the Cam-
den-based Associated-East Mortgage Co., a
subsidiary of Associated Mortgage Com-
panies, Inc., has been elected president of
the New Jersey Mortgage Bankers Assn.

HUNTER LANE, JR., an attorney in Memphis,
has been elected to the Board of Education.
He also serves as director of the Chamber of
Commerce and president and member of the
board of Memphis and Shelby County Men-
tal Health Center. Lane is also a director
of the Liberty Bowl Festival Assn.

FREDERICK G. UHLMANN, senior vice president
of H. Hentz & Co. of Chicago, has been
elected chairman of the Chicago Board of
Trade.

MARVIN C. BOWLING, JR., has been elected a
vice president of Lawyers Title Insurance
Corp. He remains the company’s counsel.
Bowling has been assigned to Lawyers Title’s
home office in Richmond, Va., throughout
his 2l-year career with the company.

1952

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH J. MULLINS, a
daughter, Margarethe Starr, on Nov. 16, 1972.
The family lives in Albuquerque, N.M.

Davin L. WATERS was recently awarded his
Charter Life Underwriters designation. He
represents Prudential Life Insurance Co. and
lives in Covington, Va. Waters is also chair-

man of the Alleghany County Board of Su-
pervisors and has recently been active in that
board’s efforts for a building program for
the local schools.

Orest NEIMANIS has left his position as
public relations officer at Radio Liberty and
is now with the management of A. Neimanis
Buchoertrieb in Munich, Germany. The firm
specializes in publishing and world wide dis-
tribution of Russian-language books. It ranks
among the largest dealers in Slavic litera-
ture.

A. R. BopeNn, formerly executive vice presi-
dent of United Electronic Institute, a division
of General Educational Services Corp., has
now joined Independent Boxmakers, Inc.,
of Louisville, Ky. He will serve as executive
vice president and secretary-treasurer. Boden
is a member of the board of directors of the
Kentucky Society of Certified Public Ac-
countants.

Epwarp E. EL.is is general counsel for Ken-
tucky Fried Chicken Corp. He has been with
the firm since 1969.

GIDEON N. STIEFF, JR., has been named presi-
dent of the Retail Merchants Assn. of Balti-
more. He is also a member of the board of
directors of the newly formed Baltimore
Forward Thrust and is a director of the
Chamber of Commerce.

BARKLEY J. STURGILL, after serving three
terms as county attorney, has been appoint-
ed vice chairman of the Kentucky Public
Service Commission.

ARTHUR A. BIRNEY has written a book on
celestial navigation entitled Moon Light
Navigation. It was scheduled for publication
in December, 1972.

1953

WILLIAM E. Brock, III, Republican U.S.
Senator from Tennessee, has been endorsed
as chairman of the National Republican
Campaign Committee.

Dr. JOHN I. BOWMAN, Jr., is practicing oral
surgery at Virginia Beach.

LEONARD B. RANSON, JR., has left the active
ministry and is now in college administra-
tive work. While continuing work toward
his masters at the University of Iowa, he is
dean of students at Mount Mercy College.
The family lives in Frostburg, Md.

WeL

 

 

tor in physical education and assistant bas-
ketball coach.

WATSON G. WATRING recently became a cer-
tified diplomat of the American Board of
Obstetrics and Gynecology. He is an assis-
tant professor, Department of Obstetrics and
Gynecology at U.C.L.A. Medical School. He
is also gynocologist at the City of Hope
National Medicap Center and lives in Pasa-
dena.

S. Scorr WHIPPLE has been retained as edi-
torial consultant by Xerox Corp. The project
involves a new series of university study pro-
grams.

Dr. IRwIN R. BERMAN has been promoted to
associate professor of surgery, New York
University Medical School. He was elected
to membership in the Society of University
Surgeons.

Wiuiam A. Tow er, III, formerly with Wa-
chovia Bank in Charlotte, N. C., is now in Ft.
Worth, Tex., where he is vice president of
Rattikin Title Co. He was recently named
director and secretary-treasurer of Equitable
Title Co. in Amarillo, a company owned by
Rattikin. His responsibilities include admini-
strative management and_ financial supervi-
sion for all Rattikin companies. Towler was
recently elected president of the Ft. Worth
Executive Assn. for 1973 and is currently a
director of the American Heart Association.

CHARLES P. Corn is an editor with Houghton
Mifflin Publishing Co. and currently work-
ing in their New York office.

RicHARD S. VEDDER is employed as an ac-
count executive for Blue Cross of Western
New York headquartered in Buffalo. He has
been with the company four years.

Ep Hempsreap is presently assigned as as-
sistant inspector general for the 18th Air-
borne Corps at Fort Bragg, N. C.

1959

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Douctas I. SMINK, jr.
a son, Jason Ijams, on July 19, 1972. The
family lives in Gaithersburg, Md.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. LEsTtER H. WASKINS,
a daughter, Stephanie Anne, on May 9, 1972.
The child joins an older sister.

J. STEPHEN Marks has opened a new com-
pany in Houston, the Credit Bureau Mar-
keting, Inc., of which he is president. The

24

company buys and sells credit information
on consumers on a national basis.

JosepH L. CRAYCROFT, Jr., has recently be-
come president of Mac Panel Co., a manu-
facturer of patchboard programming  sys-
tems, magnetic computer tapes, and magne-
tic audio tapes in High Point, N. C. He and
his wife, Francie, have three sons and two
daughters.

RicHarp A. Powe Lt is teaching seventh and
eighth grades at Roger B. Chaffee High
School, U. S. Naval Air Station, in Bermuda.

Joun P. FREEMAN of Rochester, N.Y., is Sen-
ior research chemist for Eastman Kodak Co.
He is also a director and personnel officer
of The Cave Research Foundation, a non-
profit corporation interested primarily in
the geography, geology, biology, and arche-
ology of national park caves.

Dr. Henry H. BonLMAN in November, 1972,
joined the staff of Case Western Reserve
University School of Medicine in the Depart-
ment of Orthopaedic Surgery. He is doing
research in spinal injuries and has a part-
time private practice.

1960

CHARLES A. PERKINSON, JR., is on the board
of directors and is general counsel for the
Bank of Brunswick. He is also judge of the
City of Emporia’s Municipal Court and the
Juvenile and Domestic Relations Court. He
and his wife have two daughters, and the
family lives in Lawrenceville, Va.

Jorvon M. Situ is working on his doctoral
dissertation at Chapel Hill investigating the
role of the U.S. Supreme Court during Re-
construction. He has also secured a teach-
ing assistantship in American constitutional
history.

Hoye C. Jones recently returned from two
years in Buenos Aires, as regional personnel
director for First National City Bank in
South America. He was promoted January,
1973, to vice president of First National
City Bank in New York City, with respon-
sibilities for corporate manpower planning.

Cuar.es G. BurFruM, III, has moved to Kan-
sas City, Mo., where he is associated with
the Johnson County National Bank and
Trust Co. in Prairie Village.

Hucu L. CAMPBELL has been elected senior

W. G. Loeffler, Jr., °60

vice president of the First Virginia Bank in
Falls Church. He joined First Virginia Bank
in 1967, after transferring from First Vir-
ginia Bank of Tidewater in Norfolk, where
he had served as assistant vice president and
director of personnel.

RANDOLPH B. KiLMON has been made vice
president of Loomis, Sayles Co., an invest-
ment counseling firm in Boston Mass.

JEROME A. SuSSKIND an attorney in Jackson,
Mich., was recently elected representative of
the Fourth Judicial Circuit for the State
Representative Assembly and was appointed
to the hearing committee of that body.
Susskind is the Republican county chairman
for a two-year term. He is a member of the
American Arbitration Assn. State and Na-
tional Labor Panel, and a member of the
American Trial Lawyers Assn.

WILLIAM G. LOEFFLER, JR., has been named
vice president of Cargill, Wilson and Acree,
a large advertising agency in Charlotte, N. C.
Loeffler, who has been account group Mman-
ager since 1971, joined the agency in 1969,
coming from General Electric, where he had
held several advertising and public relations

posts.
1961

MARRIED: RicHARD L. KUERSTEINER [tO
Barbara C. Lenehan on Nov. 10, 1972. They
live in Hillsborough, Calif., where Kuerstein-
er is a member of the Navy Office of the
General Counsel.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HENRY H. HARRELL,
a daughter, on Nov. 14, 1972. Harrell is em-
ployed by Universal Leaf Tobacco Co. He is
an assistant vice president and travels for
the company in the Far East. The family
lives in the country outside of Richmond.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. CourRTNEY MAUzy, a
son, Edward Scott, on Sept. 11, 1972. Court-
ney is president of Carolina Components
Corp., a building materials manufacturer
and distributor in the Raleigh, N. C. area.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM N. OFFUTT,
IV, a son, William N., V, on Sept. 8, 1972.
Dr. Offutt is presently on a Heed Founda-
tion fellowship in oculoplastic and recon-
structive surgery and corneal diseases and
microsurgery.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DAvip CAROTHERS, a
daughter, Charlotte Anderson, on Nov. 28,
1972. Carothers is president of Allright

WeL

 

ai

: ans se
ron

“4
a

oe

a
ee

>
a

a

4

 

 

H. D. Ormsby, III, ’64

manager of the General Books Division of
McGraw-Hill Book Co. Gillett joined Mc-
Graw-Hill in 1965 as a salesman. He was
subsequently promoted to marketing manager
of the Trade Division and then to director
of advertising and promotion for the Gen-
eral Books Division. In January, 1971, he
became, in addition, publisher for the Jun-
ior Books Division.

1964

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JoHN P. Roy, a
daughter, Eleanor, on Oct. 10, 1972. The
child joins an older brother and sister.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. F. J. KRALL, a daugh-
ter, Jennifer Dodd, on July 24, 1972. Krall
is with Warner-Lambert Co. in Chatham,
N. J., and product manager for Certs.

BORN: Mk. and Mrs. E. STEPHEN WALSH, a
son, Bradley Christopher, on Sept. 13, 1972.
The boy joins an older brother, and the
family lives in New York City.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. MARTIN E. GALT, III,
a son Frederick Scott, on July 3, 1972. The
family lives in St. Louis, Mo.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD A. COPLAN, a
son, Adam Grant, on Oct. 25, 1972.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. SYDNEY J. BUTLER, a
son, Sydney Johnston, Jr., on Aug. 15, 1972.
Butler is an attorney in Memphis.

HENRY D. Ormsby, III, has been named vice
president in the Corporate Banking Group
of the First National Bank of Louisville, Ky.

LEsLicE C. RUCKER, JR., is currently with
CxP Telephone Co. of Maryland and re-
sponsible for all business accounts in Mont-
gomery County. He and his wife and daugh-
ter live in Arlington, Va.

TAIN P. TOMPKINs is currently working as
an economic officer in the U. S. Embassy in
Lisbon, Portugal.

Lewis B. MCNEACE, JR., after discharge from
U. S. Air Force in February, 1972, is now in
the practice of law in Richlands, Va.

Dr. STUART J. YOFFE is a pediatrician in
Houston, Tex., at Baylor Medical School,
spending a year as an infectious disease
fellow.

DENNIS R. MORGAN took an indefinite leave
of absence from his law practice in Cleve-
land to become the Chief of Labor Relations

26

for the State of Ohio. Early in 1972, he
was author of a law review article entitled
“Right-to-work Laws: The Current State of
Affairs,” which was published in the Case
Western Reserve Law Review.

ERNEST D. LEVERING, a_ vice president of
Ramsay, Scarlett and Co., has been named
executive vice president of the Baltimore
Steamship Agency. Levering joined the com-
pany at its Baton Rouge, La., marine
terminal.

Epwarp S. Crort, III, formerly with White
and Weld Co. in New York City, is now in
Atlanta with the investment firm of Robin-
son-Humphrey, where he has recently been
promoted to the position of vice president
in the Corporate Finance Department.

A. MICHAEL PHILIPPS, formerly assistant
director of publications at Washington and
Lee, is now associated with the stock brok-
erage firm of Paine, Webber, Jackson &
Curtis in its Washington office.

Dr. GEORGE B. CRADDOCK, JR., is completing
a two year commitment at the National
Institute of Health in Bethesda, Md. His
wife, Mary is also a physician and is a
surgical resident at Georgetown University.

C. Fox URQUHART, JR., has been elected a
town councilman for Courtland, Va.

STANLEY A. FINK has been presented the
Junior Chamber International Senatorship
award, one of the highest awards bestowed
upon a Jaycee. The award was presented at
the New Jersey Jaycees’ November Assembly
in Cherry Hill. Fink is a practicing lawyer
in Clark, where he is legal counsel for the
Clark Chapter of Jaycees. He has also served
as attorney for the Clark Planning Board.

A. THOoMAs OWEN, an Army _ intelligence
officer until 1966, was with Chubb & Son,
Inc. of New York until 1970 as an insurance
underwriter. He is currently with W. S.
Owen & Bros. of York, Pa., an insurance
agency. He is married to the former Eliza-
beth Anne Keller.

On leave from the physics department of
Ripon College, ROBERT A. PADDOCK is at the
Argonne National Laboratory, Center for
Enviromental Studies, Great Lakes Project.

PAUL F. VAN AVERY is an account executive
with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce, Fenner and

Smith in Syracuse, N.Y. He and his wife,
Mary Alice, have two sons.

PHILIP BooTH, in his second season with
the San Francisco Opera Co., gave a recital
in Lexington in January, 1973, as part of
the Rockbridge Concert Theatre Series.

1965

MARRIED: Eart Macpovitz to Barbara
Lynn Bozof on Dec. 23, 1972 in Memphis,
Tenn.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. WALLACE,
a daughter, Phebe. Wallace is with Dunham-
Bush in West Hartford, Conn.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. TimotHy A. VAN-
DERVER, JR., a son, Glenn Bruce Grimes, on
Nov. 24, 1972. Vanderver is a_ practicing
attorney in Washington.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. DAN J. FRIEDMAN, JR.,
a daughter, Michelle Nicole on Sept. 28,
1972. Friedman is a staff programmer for
IBM System Products Division in Sterling
Forest, N.Y.

GEORGE W. Price, III, is associated with
Yeargin Properties, Inc., a real estate de-
velopment firm based in Greenville, S.C.
Currently he is manager of a condominium
development in Spartanburg, S.C.

MAX R. SHAPIRA is vice president of Heaven
Hill Distillers, Inc., a Kentucky bourbon
whiskey. He and his wife have one daugh-
ter, and the family lives in Louisville.

STEPHEN WARD RipEOUT, formerly of the
Administrative Office of the United States
Courts, has begun the private practice of
law with offices in Alexandria, Va.

ROBERT G. LATHROP is commissioner of the
Vermont Department of Taxes. He con-
tinues to play soccer in the Quebec Na-
tional League and has won in several
competitions. He is married and has two
children.

Lioyp F. Rex will receive his M.B.A. from
the University of Colorado in August, 1973,
and expects to be associated with Arthur
Anderson and Co.

Dr. MEL LaApes, having completed an intern-
ship at Boston University Hospital and a
residency at Pennsylvania Hospital, is now
taking a hematology-oncology fellowship at

WeL

 

 

 

 

Greetings from A pgar

   

Garry Apgar, ’67, has been ap-
pointed cartoonist and staff artist
for the Roanoke Times and World-
News.

After his Apgar
joined the U.S. Marines and served
in Vietnam. While there he did a
considerable amount of painting

graduation,

and drawing. On his discharge he
drew on a freelance basis, and his
cartoons appeared in the New York
Daily News, The Richmond Times-
Dispatch, National Review, and
other periodicals.

As a W&L student his cartoons
appeared regularly in the Tues-
day Ring-tum Phi, and he is be-
lieved to be the only staff member

‘6

ever to have been placed on “car-
toon probation.” In his senior year
he contributed a series of Feifter-
like caricatures of prominent fac-

ulty members, including Deans W.

MY BUT THAT's
AN IMPRESSIVE
STACK OF
BRICK-A- BRAC

up THefe!

 

        
   

W. Pusey, III, David W. Sprunt,
and James G. Leyburn, and other
well-known teachers such as B. S.
Stephenson, E. L. Pinney and
James W. Starling. Many of his
subjects now have the originals of
those cartoons framed in their of-
fices, and when he was graduated,
he made an even trade on the dais
with then-President Fred C. Cole:
a diploma for the original of a car-
toon about Dr. Cole and gradua-
tion speeches, which had appeared
in a recently published issue of the
campus paper.

While he was Ring-tum Phi car-
toonist, Apgar developed his ‘‘octo-
pede,” the outrageously punning
figure shown in the accompanying
illustration he drew for this issue
of WeL. The octopede now ap-
pears in all his political cartoons
for the Times and World-News.

 

 

28

development for Porter-Gaud School in
Charleston, S.C.

W. LAWRENCE FELLMAN is president of Com-
mercial Holdings, Inc. in Dallas, specializing
in the development of shopping centers.

ALAN T. RAINs, JRr., has been appointed di-
rector of special projects for the American
Society of Association Executives. Rains will
work on ASAE information services and
projects, government relations activities, and
the certified association executive program.
In addition, he will work on the ASAE
Foundation, an education and_ research
organization.

After a two-year tour of Army duty in
Germany and graduation from Emory Uni-
versity’s Graduate Business School, —THomas
J. Harpin, II, is now employed by the North
Carolina National Bank in Charlotte as
security analyst in the Investment Research
Division. He is married to the former Cath-
erine M. Hoar.

1968

MARRIED: MIcHAEL G. MorGAN to Susan
Damon on Dec. 2, 1972, in Syracuse, N.Y.

MARRIED: J. JEFFREY THISTLE to May
W. Schlapp on Sept. 23, 1972 in Delray
Beach, Fla. Thistle is currently associated
with Reynolds Securities, Inc., an investment
broker, in their Boca Raton offices.

MARRIED: JOHN W. RICE, [R., to Patricia
Elaine Beley on June 24, 1972, in Big
Timber, Mont. He is now a captain and an
instructor with the Strategic Missile Wing,
Malmstrom AFB. :

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. RUTHERFORD P. SMITH,
a son, Rutherford P., Jr., on Oct. 28, 1972.
Smith is attending Washington and Lee
Law School and is an assistant football
coach.

W. Emory WATERS, JR., is president of
Management South, Inc., a firm specializing
in motel management. He lives in Valdosta,
Ga.

R. DouGLAs HUTCHENS received his Ph.D. in
physical chemistry from the University of
Pittsburgh in April, 1972. He is presently a
lieutenant with the Air Force stationed at
Wright-Patterson AFB in the Air Force
Materials Laboratory.

WeL

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

- ‘ . 7 . -
- 7 - _ _ 7 - .
- a - - - ' 7 + > 1 : 7 -
7 - - .
. 7 -
. 7 - . - -
.
SS - - - -
- - . - 7 ae
- oe - Oe - OC a - Oo - :
. 7 . 7 -
. - - .
. - - -
- . - - :
: a
- - a
- . 7 7
a
a -
- > ae -
: oe :
7 - 7 . a
- -
- - -
- ss - 7
7 - - a - 7
. -~ : - .
- ard : - -
SO > 7 - 7
; Oo a -
> . - - -
- 7 7 oo 7 a
7 . a
- - a -
> - . 7
. - .?7 - ce
- .
. >) _ -
. a oe - :
7 7 - a - : >.
7 7 - . — 7 > a - -
- . - .
- - - 7 Oo a - -
; : a : a : : -
; “ ;
a oe 7 - .
a -
; : a - - -
- ~~ a 7
: 7 se -
- 7 a. >
- oa - - oe -
_ - - - 7 -
4 : .
- - - 7 :
- 7 oe - ‘
* 7 - 7 - 7 7 :
- 7 - - -
7 - - - -
a 7 - 7 -
- a
- - -
_ - _ -
7 - a . | - os -
e = - 7 7 . - .
Oo = -
- - oe —
-_ OO a - -
- oe - .at - - -
. 7 7 ~ ;
. : a 7
. a - 7 a 2
.
: - - a - - |
7 oe 7 -
7 - 7
- . -
a - 7 -
.
- - 7 = a
re - : _ - - OO
- : .
7 . -
- -
- .
- 7 * . . |
- .
- . - - -
. - . 7
- - - .
. -
- . 7 - .
. - /
- : :
- . . .
. 7 : .
. - :
- 7 - - . .
- - - -
. -
- - -
- - . -
7 7 . - : a

 

——
ea

 

 

Don’t Miss

the

Football Game
May 19, 1973

 

Alumni vs. Varsity

 

 

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. J. Scorr APTER, a
daughter, Molly Beth Apter, on May 29,
1972. Apter is now Vice President of Apter
Industries, Inc. of McKeesport, Penn.

WILLIAM A. VAUGHN is currently the attor-
ney in charge of the Environmental Law
Section, Legal Staff, General Motors Corp.
His headquarters are in Detroit.

ARON L. SUNA is a lieutenant on active duty
with the Judge Advocate General’s Corps,
U. S. Navy, and stationed in Pensacola, Fla.

HOMER F. GAMBLE, a junior in the College
of Medicine at Charleston, S. C., recently rep-
resented the medical school at the Southern
Medical Assn. convention in New Orleans.
Gamble is the immediate past president of
his class and is the student representative
on the school’s Sesquicentennial Committee.
He is engaged in biochemistry research on
lead poisoning and has written two papers

on his work.
197]

MARRIED: E. STAMAN OciILvIE to Beverly
Adair Means on Dec. 23, 1972, in Shreveport,
La. Among the groomsmen were William
B. Ogilvie, 64, Doug Gossmann, ’71, Balfour
Sartor, 71, and Houston Bosley, ’71. Ogilvie
is in graduate business school at Harvard
University.

MARRIED: JosePpH BERNSTEIN to Donna
Joan Heavner on Dec. 20, 1972. Bernstein is
an editorial assistant at the Michie City
Code Publishers in Charlottesville. He ex-
pects to attend Baylor Law School in Feb-
ruary, 1973.

JoHN H. KinG is working as a school social
service worker in Greensboro, N. C., and
heads the city school’s Outward Bound Pro-
ject.

RoBerT R. WEED is legislative assistant to
Rep. Robert W. Daniel. He was campaign
director for Daniel, a Republican, who was
elected last fall to Congress from Virginia’s
Fourth Congressional District.

FRANK C. BROOKS, JR., is with Chase Man-
hattan Bank of New York and currently as-
signed to their regional office for Southeast
Asia in Hong Kong. He reported to Hong
Kong in November, 1972, and is doing credit
analysis of many different types of com-
panies.

WALTER G. PETTEY, III, has been serving as
an intelligence officer, Viet Cong Infrastruc-

30

ture Strategic Research and Analysis Branch,
with the Army in Vietnam.

TimotHy H. Dyer, a management trainee
with New Bedford, Mass., Five Cent Savings
Bank, also finds time to coach in the Little
League hockey program.

1972

MARRIED: Terry W. Ty ter to Karen
Jones on March 3, 1972, in Jackson, Tenn.
Tyler is working in the trust division of
the First National Bank of Memphis.

MARRIED: JAMEes W. M. Carson to Con-
stance Elizabeth Hopper on June 3, 1972.
Jim is pursuing a masters degree in busi-
ness administration at Emory University.

MARRIED: E. GeEorGE STOOK to Bonnie
Bronwen Moe in June, 1972, in Switzerland.
Stook is on active duty with the U. S. Army
and now stationed at Ft. Riley, Kan.

Bruce W. Cusson is presently employed by
Filene’s Department Store. He is in their
executive training program and is currently
in their Warwick, R. I., store.

P. HALE MAST, JR., is presently employed by
the U. S. Treasury, Comptroller of the Cur-
rency. He works out of Charlotte, N. C.,
Fifth Federal Reserve Region, as a national
bank examiner.

Max BRANTLEY is currently a reporter with
the Arkansas Gazette in Little Rock.

Lex O. MCMILLAN, III is presently working
on his master’s degree in sociology at Emory
and expects to pursue a doctorate.

ROBERT P. BEAKLEY is practicing law in
Ocean City, N. J.

After the bar exam and a summer on Capi-
tol Hill, Witt1amM THomas ANDERSON is now
with the Marine Corps at Quantico.

 

In Memoriam

 

1907

THE Rev. DONALD W. M. MACCLUER, pastor
emeritus of Rose City Park United Presby-
terian Church in Portland, Ore., died Nov.
15, 1972. In 1910, Mr. MacCluer was the
missionary in charge of the Christian school
in Chiengrai, Thailand, and later was the

 

chaplain at the Fort Leavenworth, Kan., fed-
eral penitentiary. In 1919, he was an organi-
zer of the Youth World Organization in St.
Louis, Mo. He was pastor at Rose City Pres-
byterian from 1920 until his retirement in

1952.
1915

WILLIAM A. KELEHER, an Albuquerque attor-
ney and distinguished New Mexico historian,
died Dec. 18, 1972. During his 84 years in
Albuquerque, he rose from a Western Union
messenger boy to senior partner of one of
New Mexico’s largest law firms and an in-
ternationally known historian. He was also a
newspaperman, city attorney, member of
various state boards, and a leader in Demo-
cratic party circles. He was a prominent lay
member of the Roman Catholic Church.
Known for the careful legal attention given
to all of his clients, Mr. Keleher was one of
Albuquerque’s leading promoters and deve-
lopers. Mr. Keleher wrote the New Mexico
School Tax Act, the sales tax law which is
still the basic support for New Mexico’s
public schools. For 25 years, he devoted much
of his time to New Mexico historical re-
search and writings. Among his publications
are Maxwell Land Grant, The Fabulous
Frontier, and Turmoil in New Mexico. His
last book, Memoirs, 1892-1969 provides a
behind-the-scenes account of the growth of
Albuquerque and Keleher’s part in it. He
held honorary degrees from the University
of New Mexico and the University of Albu-
querque and was installed in the New Mexi-
co Hall of Fame.

1916

HOWARD CORNELL Flicks, a chief deputy as-
sessor and a member of the Board of the
Department of Assessment of Nassau County,
N.Y., died Dec..1, 1972. He had been with
the department since 1924.

1917

J. THERON Woopwarp of Summerville, S.C.,
died Oct. 28, 1972, after a long illness.

1923

GUILLAUME E, BERSON, JR., a retail dry goods
merchant in Ft. Smith, Ark., died Feb. 13,

1972.
1925

RICHARD BEARD, Alabama State Commissioner
of Agriculture and Industries, died Nov. 10,
1972. He was a past president of the Ala-

WeL

«~

 

bama Cattlemen’s Assn. and a past president
of the Birmingham Agriculture Club. He was
also a member of the Alabama Soil and
Water Conservation Supervisors and_ the
Southern Assn. of the State Department of
Agriculture and a former city councilman
at Trussville, near which he owned a large
farm. He was also an elder in the Trussville
Presbyterian Church.

1926

WALK C. JONES, JR., chairman of the board
of Walk Jones-Francis Mah, Inc., an archi-
tectural firm in Memphis, Tenn., died in
December, 1972. Mr. Jones was a member
of Building Research Institute, the Ameri-
can Hospital Assn., and the Advisory Com-
mittee for the Board of Trustees of the
Baptist Memorial Hospital.

1930

James H. ADAMSON, retired attorney and
life-long resident of Terre Haute, Ind., died
Nov. 7, 1972. Mr. Adamson was also a labor
relations consultant and was a trustee of the
Iron Workers District Workers Health and
Welfare Fund. He was a member of the
American Arbitration Assn. and the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service.

WILLIAM ASBURY WARD, JR., a lawyer, real
estate man, and business executive of Mari-
etta, Ga., died Oct. 22, 1972. Mr. Ward was a
lieutenant colonel with the U. S. Army Air
Corps during World War II. He was in
charge of staging bombers for overseas de-
livery and received the Legion of Merit. He
was a member of the Piedmont Driving Club
of Atlanta and spent much time in Miami,

Fla.
1932

LAWRENCE EUGENE DeBocory, an attorney
for the Republic National Bank of Dallas,
died Nov. 19, 1972. Mr. DeBogory had been
a practicing attorney for the Republic Na-
tional Bank for seven years. He was a USS.
Army veteran of World War II, a member
of the Dallas and the American Bar Assn.

Cary BURWELL Mayo, a Richmond resident
and a former employee of W. L: Robinson

Co. in Durham, N. C., died April 27, 1972
after a long illness.

DONALD SCHOOLEY HOSTETTER, an FBI agent
for almost 30 years and a former chairman
of the New York State Liquor Authority,
died Nov. 17, 1972, in a hospital in Herber

March, 1973

Springs, Ark. Mr. Hostetter held assignments
with the FBI in a number of cities and at
one time was counselor for the FBI National
Academy in Washington. He was in charge
of FBI offices in Chicago, Boston, Pittsburgh,
and Memphis. In 1963, Gov. Rockefeller ap-
pointed Mr. Hostetter chairman of the New
York Liquor Authority. He retired in 1970.
He was an outstanding football player for

Washington and Lee and later coached at

the University while earning his law degree.
He was admitted to the Virginia Bar in 1932
and was appointed an FBI agent in Wash-

ington in 1934.
1935

JOHN MARION DEAN, one of the largest plant-
ers in the Mississippi Delta area died No-
vember 2, 1972. Mr. Dean, who lived in

Tribbett, Miss., was a member of the Board .

of Deacons of the First Baptist Church of
Leland and a member and past president
of the Leland Rotary Club. He was presi-
dent of the Leland Consolidated School Dis-
trict, vice president and director of Delta
Council, director of Farmers Grain Market

and Terminal Co-op, and was chairman of
the Washington County Agricultural Stabili-
zation and Conservation Society for 15 years.

1938

HirAM WALL, a resident of Kingsport, Tenn.,
died Aug. 7, 1972.

1940

Percy ASHTON SEATON, JR., former assistant
sales manager in the appliance division for
B. T. Crump Co. of Richmond, died Nov.
19, 1972. He had been living for the last
several years at Martha’s Vineyard, Mass.

1970

RALPH ScOTT TAGGART, JR., a native of New
Orleans died Jan. 10, 1973, at the Ochsner
Foundation Hospital following a long ill-
ness. At the time of his death, he was at-
tending Tulane University, working towards
an M.B.A. He was bestowed an honorary
M.B.A. by the President of Tulane.

 

Christopher T. Chenery,
trustee emeritus,
1886-1973

 

 

Christopher T. Chenery, retired utility execu-
tive and horesman who was a Trustee of the Uni-
versity for 20 years, died Jan. 3, 1973, in New
Rochelle, N. Y., after a long illness. He was 86.

Mr. Chenery, a 1909 graduate of W&L, was a
member of the Board of Trustees from 1950 until
his retirement in 1970, when he was named Trus-
tee Emeritus. At that time, the Trustees adopted a
resolution characterizing him as “a leader of integ-
rity, wisdom, and foresight.’ His long service to
Washington and Lee included co-chairmanship of
the University’s 1958-60 development program
which raised funds to construct a new science build-
ing and to renovate Reid Hall to accommodate the
journalism department and its related operations.

He was chairman of the board of Southern Na-
tural Gas Corp. and a founder and president of
Federal Water & Gas Corp. He was also president
or board chairman of seven smaller utility com-
panies and a director of seven others.

Mr. Chenery was famous as the owner of The
Meadow, the stable in Doswell, Va., which produc-
ed some of racing’s top money winners, including
Riva Ridge, winner of last year’s Kentucky Derby,
and Secretariate, named 1972 Horse of the Year.
The foals of just one of his horses, Hildene, return-
ed almost $2 million in winnings. Among his other
better-known horses were Cicada, First Landing,
and Hill Prince, the 1950 Horse of the Year.

He attended Randolph-Macon College in Ash-
land, where he grew up, but left school at 16 to
earn money to continue his education at W&L. He
majored in engineering and was elected to Phi Beta
Kappa. After graduation, he worked for a time in
the Pacific Northwest as an engineer, and in 1914
joined a reconnaisance party that was surveying
potential rights-of-way for the first railroad through
Alaska. He was with the Army Engineer Corps dur-
ing World War I and then went to New York City,
eventually starting his own engineering firm. In

1926, he was one of the founding partners of Fed-
eral Water Service Corp., predecessor firm to Fed-
eral Water & Gas and Southern Natural Gas.

In 1936 he bought The Meadow, a 2,000-acre
estate, and began racing and breeding. He was
named to a commission in New York charged with
rehabilitating the image of horse racing in that
state and was vice president and treasurer of the
New York Racing Association.

He is survived by a son, Dr. Hollis B. Chenery
of Washington, D. C., and two daughters, Mrs.
Helen ‘I'weedy, manager of ‘The Meadow, and Mrs.
Margaret Carmichael of ‘Tucson, Ariz.

Mr. Chenery was buried in Ashland.

 

 

 

32

WeL

3

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W

 

 

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

 

 

 

 

