the alumni magazine of washington and lee university SEPTEMBER 1976

|

 

 

fe

yy S
Re
ae
we eae

— — |

 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 51, Number 6, September 1976

William C. Washburn, °40............cccccccccc cece eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68..........0...........ccceeee Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel................... Editorial Assistants
Sally Mann oie ceeeneneneesenens Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

McClure and Gooch Estates ..........0.... ee ]
New Library is Under Way ...........0:00c es 4
On the Decision to Build the Library .................... 6
The Hub of the Campus... 7
Library Floor Plans 00.0.0... 10
| Campus News Briefs ............0....00: ces 13
Farewell to Tucker Hallo... 16
Books by Pusey and Davis ............00..ccee 18
Alumni Fund Reaches New High ...................... 20
Chapter News oo... cece terres 22
Class Notes 00.0... ete eee eneenrentenen 24
In Memoriam ........0.... ee. be thbeesseieeveSistasesupessee 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginda 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Tuomas B. Brancu III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
President

J. THomas ‘ToucHToN, 60, ‘Tampa, Fla.
Vice President

CHARLES C. STIEFF II, 45, Baltimore, Md.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WaAsHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, '63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DupbLey, ’58, Richmond, Va.

Epwin J. Foutz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.

Marion G. ‘HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Ho .uis, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.

Jerry G. Soutu, 54, San Francisco, Calif.
RosertT M. Waite II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

nt,
oq

ON THE COVER: Architectural model of the new
130,000-square-foot undergraduate _ library, for
which the University awarded contracts this sum-
mer. The new building is expected to be complet-
ed in 1979. In the picture, Reid Hall is at the left
and Payne and Washington Halls are at the right.
Newcomb Hall, which would be in front center of
the photo, was removed in order to show the li-
brary building as it will appear on the back-campus
mall.

 

 

 

Washington and Lee has received in recent months shares
in two estates totaling more than $5.4 million. One is an
estimated $3.8 million under the will of the late Mrs.
Miriam Caperton McClure of New Orleans, whose husband
and father both were alumni of the University. The other

amounts to more than $1.6 million from the estate of the
late Richard E, Gooch of Lynchburg and Lexington, a
devoted WXL alumnus.

Mrs. McClure’s bequest is unrestricted and represents
the bulk of her estate. The larger share of the gift from Mr.
Gooch, $1,523,000, is in the form of an unrestricted bequest
from his estate. Ihe remaining portion, $97,386, is in the
form of a life-insurance policy which Mr. Gooch pur-
chased specifically to benefit W&L’s Department of Journa-
lism and Communications, one of his primary interests.

The bequests (the precise value of Mrs. McClure’s gift
is still being determined) will be applied toward completion
of the projects in the University’s ongoing Development
Program for the 1970s. Besides capital-construction projects,
including a new undergraduate library on which work began
this summer, the Development Program embraces additions
to the University’s permanent endowment and support for
the annual operating budget.

‘These magnificent gifts come at a crucial moment in
our planning,” President Huntley said. “They make us
all the more confident that, with similar generosity on the
part of others, we can meet our essential 1976 Develop-
ment Program objectives. To be sure, the names McClure
and Gooch stand out boldly in that distinguished company
of generous men and women who over the years have acted
to insure the future of Washington and Lee.”

Edwin A. Morris of Greensboro, chairman of W&L’s
Estate Planning Council, said: “Every person who is involved
with the University’s Development Program is, without
question, grateful to Mrs. McClure and Mr. Gooch. Their
bequests represent a critically important step toward the
successful achievement of our aspirations for Washington
and Lee, which they shared with us in full.

‘Their generosity is, however, just as important to us in
another sense,” he added. “They have provided exemplary
demonstrations of the benefits of carefully considered estate
planning.”

Wk&L receives
$5.4 million
from McClure

and Gooch
estates

A double regard for W&L

 

 

 

Mrs. McClure, who died Feb. 27 at the age of 83, had a
twofold connection with the University. Her husband, Dr.
Matthew Thompson McClure Jr., graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee in 1904 and remained for an additional year
of study. Her father, William McFaddin Alexander, a
Presbyterian minister, studied at the University for two years
in the early 1880s.

Dr. McClure, who died in 1964, had a distinguished
academic career. He received the M.A. degree from the Uni-
versity of Virginia in 1907 and the Ph.D. degree from
Columbia University in 1912. He was an instructor in
philosophy at Columbia from 1912 to 1914 and was pro-
fessor of philosophy at Tulane University from 1914 to 1921.
Then for the next 30 years he was professor of philosophy
and dean of the University of Illinois, He was the author of
How to Think in Business. In 1938, Washington and Lee
awarded him an honorary LL.D. degree. Upon his retirement
in 1951, he and Mrs. McClure moved to New Orleans,
where her parents had lived for many years.

Mrs. McClure’s father was an 1887 graduate of Union
Theological Seminary and was pastor of the Prytania Street
Presbyterian Church of New Orleans for 40 years. In
1898, at the age of 36, he was awarded an honorary D. D.
degree by Washington and Lee. He was a descendant of
Robert Alexander, who came from Ulster to America and
in 1749 founded Augusta Academy near Timber Ridge, the
little classical school that eventually became Washington
and Lee University.

In a letter to a Washington and Lee official shortly after
the death of her husband, Mrs. McClure wrote: “We have
always had a warm affection for the University. It has always
been of interest to me to know that both my father and my
husband made their first speeches standing on the same spot
in the [Lee] Chapel... . My own regard for the University
comes both by inheritance and by marriage.”

In addition to the major bequest to Washington and
Lee, Mrs. McClure left a house and a lot in Champaign to
the University of Illinois and to its University Club, and
a farm in Augusta County, Va., ““Spottswood,” to her hus-
band’s great-nephew, John Randolph Hickin.

 

Mrs. Miriam Caperton McClure (1926 portrait)

A devoted alumnus

 

 

 

Richard Gooch died Dec. 30, 1974, at the age of 70. He
was born in Lynchburg, but spent most of his childhood
in Europe. He attended the Darlington School in Rome,
Ga., and then Washington and Lee, receiving a B.A. degree
in 1930. He held a master’s degree from Duke University.

For many years he was an executive with Radio Stations
WLVA and WWOD in Lynchburg.

Throughout his adult life he was a steadfast supporter
of Washington and Lee, and it was largely his connection
with the University that led him to acquire an apartment in
Lexington after his retirement. He was a member of the
General’s Council, the group of W&L’s most generous bene-
factors and was also an ardent supporter of WLUR-FM, the
University’s radio station. Among the gifts he made to W&L
during his lifetime were many designated for operating ex-
penseés, equipment purchases, and expansion of the station.

Through a geographical quirk, Mr. Gooch was able to
pick up WLUR’s 10-watt signal at his home in Lynch-
burg, 40 miles away, although ordinarily a signal
of that strength travels only a couple of miles. It was a
Richard E. Gooch at W&L alumni party phenomenon that deepened his interest in journalism broad-
casting at his alma mater. After moving to Lexington,
he was instrumental in enabling the radio station to in-
crease its signal strength to 180 watts,

Always interested in modern communications technology,
Mr. Gooch also contributed a sophisticated audio cassette
system to W&L’s McCormick Library as a fundamental
element in the “non-book” information resource field.

He visited the WLUR studios frequently to watch the station’s
operations, and in recent years, he gave an elegant banquet
for graduating journalism majors every spring.

His bequest to W&L represents 50 per cent of his estate
after a number of specific gifts to three Lynchburg churches,
the YMCA and YWCA, and the Humane Society. In ad-
dition to the major W&L bequest, he also left a one-third
share of the remainder to the Darlington School, and one-
twelfth shares to Lynchburg College and Randolph-Macon

. .. And demonstrating the headphones of the Woman’s College.
audio cassette system he donated to McCormick
Library

 

 

Contracts are awarded
for the new library

 

Wi 2

‘The University has awarded contracts totaling approxi-
mately $7.6 million for construction of its long-planned new
undergraduate library, major relocation of underground
utilities, and landscape improvements on the back campus.

The library is the largest step in W&L’s ongoing campus
development program, and will lead eventually to renova-
tion of the existing library building as a new home for the
School of Commerce, Economics and Politics, and renova-
tion of two other existing buildings on the historic Colonnade
to accommodate several departments in The College.

At a recent special meeting, members of the Washington
and Lee Board of Trustees themselves made new gift com-
mitments of more than $1.5 million. Those new trustee
gifts brought to $13,940,533 the total which board members
have given so far in the University’s decade-long develop-
ment effort.

Even before the addition of the trustees’ new $1.5 million
in gifts and the inclusion of the $3.8 million from the
estate of Mrs. Miriam Caperton McClure, Washington and
Lee had achieved an overall total of $32.6 million from
all sources toward its development objectives, which include
new physical facilities, additions to the endowment, and
annual giving in support of current operations.

4

Architect’s model shows the new library nestled into the hillside behind Washington and Tucker Halls.

   

The Achievement Council—the volunteer group charged
with achieving the University’s development objectives—is
continuing to work vigorously toward the successful comple-
tion of the development goal, according to its chairman, John
M. Stemmons of Dallas.

The new library, which will be located in the valley
behind Washington Hall, the central campus building at
W&L, will require 30 months to complete, and occupancy
is expected for the start of classes in 1979. The 130,000-
square-foot facility will be the largest structure at W&L.

Preliminary site preparation and relocation of under-
ground utilities began this summer.

The general contractor for the library and associated
projects is Bass Construction Co. The mechanical contractor is
Harris Heating & Plumbing Inc., and the electrical con-
tractor is Howard P. Foley Co. All three firms are located
in Richmond.

Architects for the new building—which has been in the
planning for five years—are Marcellus Wright, Cox & Ladd,
also of Richmond. That firm designed Lewis Hall, Washing-
ton and Lee’s new law building which is now in use.

The 70-year-old McCormick Library has long been
inadequate to accommodate W&L’s expanding library hold-

a

a Soak Ps
a aa

g

x
i
SY

f Hg
Lf
bf

 

.
PAL
|
a
§

“?®@
~~
8
EY
ee

iS

oe

Ny

0

be
4

yy

AS \
A
Aw

6?

ings and the gradual increase during the century in the

size of the student body. Extensive studies have shown that
McCormick cannot be satisfactorily enlarged or renovated
to meet current and future needs.

When the library moves into its new facility in 1979,
McCormick will in turn be adapted for use by the School
of Commerce, Economics and Politics, which has outgrown
its old quarters in Newcomb Hall, built in 1884. Newcomb
will then be renovated for academic use by a number of
undergraduate departments in the liberal arts and humanities.

Campus improvements made so far in Washington and
Lee’s Development Program for the 1970s include an addi-
tion to Doremus Gymnasium: Lewis Hall, the new $7-mil-
lion facility for the School of Law; a 178-student apartment
complex for upperclassmen and law students; and extensive
improvements to outdoor athletic facilities, utilities, land-
scaping, and road and walkway systems.

Last January, Washington and Lee was named the
beneficiary of an $1l-million bequest from the estate of the
late John Lee ‘Pratt. Those funds—which are to be used to
assist with faculty salaries and student scholarships—are not
included in the amount achieved so far in the Development
Program.

 

 

 

 

Above: Map shows relationship of the new library to existing
buildings.

Below: Construction crews clear site of new library. The three
small buildings in the foreground, the old University Services
building and Washington Annex I & II, were torn down after this
picture was made. Lewis Hall, the new law school building, is
visible in the left background.

By Robert E. R. Huntley

President of the University

Reflections on the decision
to build the new library

At last we have begun work on our new undergraduate
library. Articles elsewhere in this issue of your magazine
carry complete information about the physical nature of
the project; several articles in the magazine over the past
three or four years have analyzed in some depth our need
for a new library, and how we came to adopt the function and
design which our plans incorporate.

I want to share with you in this space some of the
considerations which the Board of Trustees weighed as it
deliberated whether to go ahead with the new library even
though available funding remains below the amount that
will eventually be required to pay for it.

Early this spring, the Board decided to seek bids on
major portions of the library and several related utility-
relocation and back-campus landscape projects—in order to
obtain some firm notion of exactly what the cost would be
if we were to contract for those jobs at this time. For some
time, of course, we had had estimates of those costs, but all
of us had the sense that those estimates were rather imprecise
in light of rapidly changing price patterns in the con-
struction industry.

By early May, we had received enough bids to make it
clear to us that if we were to award contracts by the end of
June, we could accomplish the library and the associated
projects I mentioned for considerably less than our most
recent previous estimates had indicated.

Even so, the contracts would be large ones—totaling
$7.6 million, including contingencies and remaining
architectural and engineering fees. (We have already spent
more than $600,000 over the past four years in planning and
preparation costs.) The judgment of the Board was that
these bids almost certainly represented the most favorable
price we would ever find for these projects, and that in fact
we might find ourselves back in a construction cost-spiral if
we were to delay much longer.

Of course, when the library is completed three years
from now, it will be necessary to equip it; we are still dealing
only with estimates as to what it might cost us to do that.
The Board has judged that we must assume the total remain-
ing dollar expenditure on the library, equipment for it, the
utility work, and related landscaping will be at least $8.5
million.

Also early in the spring, Washington and Lee received the
good news that Mr. Gooch’s estate bequest, of which we had
learned a year previously, would approach and might
slightly exceed $1.5 million in value, more than we had
initially expected. At roughly the same time, we were in-
formed of Mrs. McClure’s magnificent estate gift of more than
$3.8 million. (Elsewhere in the magazine are stories about
these bequests.)

Both estate bequests were unrestricted—that is, available

 

 

President Huntley

for any purpose selected by the Board of Trustees. With
those bequests, and with other gifts (similarly unrestricted or,
in several cases, designated specifically for the library)
made previously by alumni, friends, and foundations, the
University had resources of about $7 million which could
be applied toward the two remaining major capital objec-
tives in the Development Program—the critically needed
new undergraduate library (which the Board had long
recognized as really the most important physical need in the
Development Program), and completing the funding of the
gymnasium addition-and-renovation project, on which our
outstanding indebtedness stood at $2.2 million.

Toward these objectives the $7 million to which I referred
earlier could be applied—but the Board believed that the
gap between money available and money required was
too large to justify our proceeding as of the time of its
regular meeting late in May.

In June, accordingly, the Executive Committee of the
Board met, debated the matter at considerable length, and
decided to call a special meeting of the full Board as soon
as possible. That special meeting took place in Washington
on June 26, and during the course of it, the Board received
from its own members new pledges of personal financial
support totaling $1,550,000. With this impressive narrowing
of the dollar gap, the Board then voted unanimously to
proceed with the library project as quickly as the contracts
could be prepared and signed.

So our situation is this. Washington and Lee will, before
the decade is out, have the new undergraduate library and
associated improvements it has so urgently needed for so long.
But in the months ahead we must find new gift commit-
ments—payable over the next three to five years—totaling
more than $2,000,000. It is the Board’s fervent hope that
before the end of calendar 1976, which marks the close of the
initial portion of the Development Program, Washington
and Lee will receive those additional gift commitments.
And you may be sure that every member of the Board
is doing everything in his power to make that hope
come to pass.

As you can imagine, all of this has created an atmosphere
of great excitment both on the campus and among the
members of the Board. In a very real way, all of us feel
that we can now see light at the end of our tunnel. And
it is this feeling that has generated a new sense of urgency
among all of us, and—relying on your encouragement and
Support—a new sense of confidence as well.

 

ull

Academic and physical
hub of the campus

The new undergraduate library will be—as the library at
a good college must be—the hub of the campus, both
academically and physically. The facility is being constructed
behind Washington Hall, on the slope of Wood’s Creek
Valley closest to campus; the entrance will be just about
where Washington Annex II (home of the Computer Center
and Registrar’s Office in recent years; the Beanery before
that) formerly stood. The front of the new library will
extend toward Reid Hall, roughly along the line of the back
wall of Washington Annex I (in which the print shop used
to be located, and the heating plant before that). It will, in
short, be conveniently close to every undergraduate academic
facility on campus—serving as a physical and psychological
extension of the historic Front Campus toward Lewis Hall
and the Wood’s Creek Apartments to the west.

The library will be large—large enough to meet the
needs of the University in the first-rate fashion demanded
by a curriculum of the calibre of W&L’s. It will have
130,000 square feet of floor space (by contrast, McCormick
has only about a quarter as much, 35,602 square feet). The
building will have five floors, but, thanks to architectural
and engineering ingenuity, it will be built into the valley
hillside, and the roof will be only as high as the first floor of
Washington Hall, affording a panoramic view of House and
Hog Back Mountains beyond the law school to the west.

 

et ie Architectural rendering depicts library foyer with entrance to
Architecturally, it is more than a functionally efficient the small auditorium at the left.

in
ll, which would be in front center,
was removed from the campus model for this photo in order to show the library building to full advantage.

 

 

The New Library

 

gO RT compe un manana.
a it Py ue i

 

Model of the new library showing the rear and the south side as viewed from Woods Creek Valley.

 

Rendering of library auditorium seating approximately 100 persons.

8

package, as any building must be to be appropriate at
Washington and Lee. The site, the scale, the exterior design
and even the building materials (red brick predominant,
with white concrete vertical accents) combine to promise a
contemporary building compatible with the neo-classical
scheme which characterizes the existing campus.

The new library will accommodate twice as many users at
a time as McCormick—800 vs. 400—with 600 individual study
areas or carrels (semi-private desk-and-bookshelf areas), each
about 30 square feet, that can be reserved by an individual
student for a term or even longer. All the carrels, further-
more, will have the built-in capacity to be “hot-wired”
easily if the University should decide in the future to add
closed-circuit television or video-cassette teaching and in-
formation-retrieval services.

Most of the carrels will be in the stacks, so that students
engaged in particular projects can work actually in the
area where the resources they need are located.

There will be a lobby, display area, and open lounge near
the circulation desk just inside the library entrance; the
card catalogue (capacity: three million cards) will be adja-
cent. Also on the main floor in the front portion of the
building will be large workrooms for acquisitions and
cataloguing.

The back half of the main floor will be occupied by
the reference and public-services divisions of the library.
Shelving for 10,000 volumes will be located in this large,
Open area; rooms for using microfilms and similar re-
sources will be located on the periphery. The periodicals
area will have room for current issues of 1,500 publications,
and 60 seats will be located here. The reference and public-
services staff will be centrally located for maximum ac-
cessibility to students, teachers, and other users of the library.

There will be facilities on the first level below the
main floor for special collections, including books, manu-
scripts and other items which are rare or unique, includ-
ing University archives. Principal features in the special-
collections area will be an attractive, well-appointed rare-
book display and reading room housing 2,500 volumes, a
larger rare-book storage room (which will accommodate
the historic collections of the Franklin and Graham-Lee
Societies), and an office and workroom for the library staff
assigned to supervise the special collections.

A 100-seat auditorium will also be located on the first
lower level, close to the special collections area, for con-
ferences, public lectures, readings, and seminars.

‘There will be areas on both the main and first-lower
levels for general and specialized technical services—ordering
books, processing them when they arrive, book-mending and
simple repairs, preparing books and periodicals to be bound,
confirming receipt and keeping track of every issue of

every periodical to which the library subscribes, arranging
and keeping records for inter-library loans, and the like.
There will be a number of glass-enclosed study and con-
ference rooms throughout the library, each seating from
four to eight persons, and two small seminar rooms with
a capacity of 15 each. On every floor except the main level,
there will be several small studies and larger lounges for
patrons who smoke.
The library will provide 30 private faculty studies,
located in reasonable seclusion throughout the stack areas.
There will be special areas where library users will be
able to listen to records without disturbing others; there
will be photocopying machines conveniently located on
every floor; there will be typing rooms for students and
others throughout the building.

Years of planning

The new undergraduate library is the product of a
decade of exhaustive analysis of W&L’s specific needs—
and equally careful planning of how best to meet them.

McCormick was built in 1941, around the walls of the
then 33-year-old Carnegie Library. In 1941, the building
housed the University’s 110,000 volumes adequately; it served
the needs of the 710-member undergraduate student body
well.

But within a quarter-century, the size of the student body
had increased 50 per cent—and the number of library
holdings has doubled. In 1966, the University’s comprehen-
sive Self-Study Report declared that McCormick’s space
problem was “‘critical.” i

And in the decade since 1966—despite as ingenious a
series of renovations and space-reorganizations as McCormick’s
relatively inflexible design would allow—the situation has
grown worse, not better. Since then, when space demands
were merely “critical,” the number of holdings has grown
to more than a quarter-million. McCormick’s shelves are
more than 95 per cent full today; a library is considered to
be at its maximum effective capacity when its shelves are
75 per cent full. The size of the undergraduate student
body has grown from 1,150 in 1965-66 to almost 1,400 this
fall. Ihe University’s curriculum has been expanded (more
than 700 different courses are taught every year now)
and reorganized (with a substantial new emphasis on super-
vised independent study and original research). Technological
advances which no good library can ignore have come into
their own; they were unthought-of in the ’40s, and still
largely in the experimental stage in the 60s. Perhaps most

(Continued on Page 12)

   

CATALOGUING

  

STORAGE

 

  

BUILDING SECTION

Library
floor plans

The areas depicted on these floor
plans reflect the relationship of the
various components of the building to
one another, but detailed arrangements
within these areas may be changed in
minor respects.

Main Level—The public entrance to
the library will be from the rear campus
mall. The flow of traffic within the
building will permit easy and natural
movement from one library function
to the next in a logical sequence for
both users and the library staff. The book
collection is in close proximity to the
user whether studying or browsing. The
main level contains the entrance lobby
with display area, circulation and con-
trol, card catalog, reference area, public
services, technical services, and ad-
ministrative offices.

10

WORKROOM

ea

'
Le ee ay a

 

MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

REFERENCE

 

 

 

  
  

 
 

 

   
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| a
TELE.& Ane
ELEC.
— a a
PUBLIC JREFERE
SERVICES [LIBRARY
MICRO IMAGE
STORAGE
REFERENCE
ASSISTANCE
—f a Z
MICRO IMAGE | |
WORK AREA
OFFICE
meen a a a
r
eaeen PRY = PROCESSING SERIALS Neer
& MENDING RECORDS
a a =] B
CIRCULATION
& CONTROL
ile
SECRETARY &
| ACQUISITIONS CATALOGING LIBRARIAN ceeeetEN
af a |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
 

LOBBY

 

  

PENTHOUSE LEVEL

      
  

MAIN LEVEL

7 LOWER LEVEL ONE

LOWER LEVEL TWO

 

__ LOWER LEVEL THREE

 

LOWER LEVEL FOUR

 

 

reve

ELEC.

q
aed BROWSING

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lower Level One—The University
has accumulated a collection of books,
manuscripts, and other records includ-
ing the University’s archives, which are
rare or unique. ‘hese will be protected
and housed in attractive quarters because
of their scholarly and monetary values.

In addition, the library will use
the special collections area for public
lectures and seminar programs. To
support these objectives, a 100-seat
auditorium and a lobby serving as an
exhibition area are included on Lower
Level One.

Along with special collections, the
shipping department and the staff lounge
are housed, and the general stacks and
student and faculty study areas begin
on this level.

CTT er abe BR a ope ee eee

 

   

   

 

 

 
 
   

  

a
| SMOKING LOUNGE
Ca

    

| ae :

/ ELEC.
i |. SHAFT - TOILET J | TOILET SEMINAR | SEMINAR
WW ay 2 (els }

f TOILET FETOILET
ham & @ a

 

HNN

  

 
   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

  

 

 

j
1

DOCK SHIPPING & RECEIVING RARE BOOK WORKROOM

 

 

| LOBBY & DISPLAY

 

_ Lower Levels Two, Three, and Four—

These three levels are similar in arrange-

! ment, with general stack area, seating,

! conference rooms, and faculty and stu-

| eae ‘\ dent study areas housed on each.

ao oe An integrated bookstack and reading
area comprises the principal bulk of
the library. The book stacks will be
completely open and furnished through-
out with carrels for patron use. Open-
a ing off the stacks will be conference
| rooms and smoking lounges. These areas
7 as well as all public and technical
| spaces will be carpeted.

RARE BOOK STO

s

RARE BOOK STORAGE

 

 

 

Fe ee ee ae ee

 

 

 

LOWER LEVEL ONE

MECHANICAL

PS ee ee, eed

|
|

 

     

   

STACK

 

AREA

—

  
    

SMOKING LOUNGE

   

LOWER LEVEL TWO
Lower Levels Three and Four
are similar.

11

The New Library

 

significantly, the library’s annual operating budget has risen
from $71,920 just a decade ago to $384,608 in 1974-75, more
than a fivefold increase. The amount-per-student spent in
library operating expenses rose from $58 per year to $201 in
the same period; the share of the University’s overall annual
operating budget which library costs command has in-
creased from 2.7 per cent 10 years ago to more than 6 per
cent today.

A number of separate studies over the decade, some
conducted by the University itself (including one just last
spring) and others by professional experts, have all reached
the same inexorable conclusion: The capacity of McCormick
to be remodeled either to provide more space or to allow
more effective use of existing space has long been ex-
hausted.

Without extravagance, the new building will provide
Washington and Lee with some of the finest undergraduate
library facilities—among the best-planned, most technologically
satisfactory—of any institution in the nation.

But why? Why is it necessary for W&L to have the best,
when the University managed for so long to educate its
students with a much less adequate facility?

The answer is in large measure a philosophical one,
perhaps best expressed in Washington and Lee’s formal
statement of institutional purpose, which declares in part
that fundamental among the objectives of the University is
“the dedication of all its resources to the development of
man’s Capacity and desire to learn, to understand, and to
pass on to others the varied benefits of this intellectual
growth.” It follows, then, that whatever fails to serve that
purpose fully—any inhibition on the University’s ability to
reach toward that aspiration, any logistical obstacle in the
path—disserves the University in a basic way. And McCor-
mick’s limitations have clearly become just such a problem.

In a planning document he prepared for the Board of
‘Trustees more than six years ago, Head Librarian Maurice
D. Leach Jr. defined ‘‘a quality college library” of the kind
Washington and Lee deserves. Such a library is, he wrote,
far more than a static warehouse for information. It is a

 

Model of library entranceway.

12

“carefully selected collection of books, pamphlets, periodicals,
tapes, recordings, films, computerized information, or
what-have-you that is recorded for the use of society—organized
in the most effective and economical manner feasible; [it is |
the services of a professional staff which, through its
bibliographic guidance to the student and faculty, is integrated
into the teaching and research fiber of the institution... .”

It is, he said, a means by which the faculty and admini-
stration “support the academic program with problem-
solving resources for the student body and others to draw
upon in developing decision-making skills, personal ma-
turity, and productive scholarship.”

And the fundamental questions in that problem-solving
process, he wrote, come down to these: “Where is the in-
formation? Is it accurate? How can the user be helped
most effectively?”

“There is one other major function of the college library,”
Leach observed—‘‘personal enjoyment, satisfying an inner
desire which goes beyond the great pleasure of learning.

In this realm we have no precise boundaries, no fixed
assumptions beyond the one factor: that we do not know what
... [he aesthetics, the pleasure of learning
about an avocation or temporary enthusiasm are values to
an individual’s development which cannot be measured.

They are especially important to the college student in this
period of his life when he accepts and rejects ideas and
values as he seeks those which become permanent... .

is enrichment.

“The college library assists the student in the same
manner as the professor does. The sound library guides
the student, and frequently the faculty, to the resources
within the fields of knowledge which meet his informational
and personal interests.

“A strong liberal-arts college is judged by the depth of
its intellectual and information resources and the ability
to use them productively .... In the final analysis, the
college’s leadership is determined by the effectiveness of its
graduates and faculty in meeting the demands of society
well above the ‘capable average,’ so readily available in the
marketplace.”

So Washington and Lee will have at last a library that
meets those criteria admirably. Washington and Lee will
have a library that is spacious, functional, attractive and
comfortable; a library planned for easy, efficient and pro-
ductive use of extensive resources; a library that is a cul-
tural center as well, encouraging the people who use it to
stretch their minds on their own no less than within the
University’s formal academic structure; a library that is more
than merely adequate—a library, in short, that complements
and reinforces the University’s sole reason for being, and in
fact serves as the center for meeting it: the whole education
of the whole man.

   

ee 2

NEW FACULTY MEMBERS
(I Nine teachers joined the W&L faculty this fall—five in The
College and four in the School of Law.

The new undergraduate faculty members are Howard L.
Boetsch, instructor in romance languages; Dr. John S. Knox,
assistant professor of biology; Clark R. Mollenhoff, visiting
professor of journalism; Dr. David R. Novack, assistant pro-
fessor of sociology, and Thomas J. Ziegler, assistant professor
of drama.

The four new teachers in the School of Law are David R.
Mummery, visiting professor, and Mark H. Grunewald, Nathan
G. Ostroff, and Anne Unverzagt, assistant professors.

Boetsch is a 1969 W&L graduate who is completing his
doctorate in Spanish at Middlebury Graduate School, where
he has also been assistant director of the graduate program
in Spain. He has been director of W&L’s Spring-Term Abroad
Program in Spain for the past two years as well.

Dr. Knox, previously a faculty member at Southern Semi-
nary Junior College, holds the Ph.D. from Virginia Tech.
He received his bachelor’s degree from Drew University and
the M.S. from Maryland.

Mollenhoff is a Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative re-
porter and syndicated columnist. Until joining the W&L fac-
ulty he was chief of the Washington, D.C., bureau of the
Des Moines (Iowa) Register and Tribune. Among the stories
he helped unearth were those involving Jimmy Hoffa and
Bobby Baker; he won his Pulitzer in 1958 for “president in-
quiry into labor racketeering.” Mollenhoff is a lawyer as well
as a journalist. He began working for the Des Moines papers
in 1941, and remained with them until this year with the ex-
ception of a brief period early in the first administration of
President Nixon, when he was named presidential counselor
with “ombudsman” duties in the field of ethics in the executive
branch. Mollenhoff will continue writing his weekly column,
Watch on Washington, as a W&L professor.

Dr. Novack taught at Bowdoin College in Maine from
1972 until this year. He is an honors graduate of the Univer-
sity of Massachusetts and holds the M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from New York University.

Ziegler has taught at The College of the Virgin Islands
and the University of Toledo. He is a B.A. graduate of
Lewis .College and holds the M.A. in theatre design and tech-
nology from Northern Illinois University.

Mummery comes to the law school from the University of
Auckland in New Zealand, where he has taught since 1966. He
earned his B.A. and two law degrees from the University of
New Zealand, a second master’s degree in law from Harvard,
and his law doctorate from the University of Virginia.

Grunewald has been an attorney and advisor in the U.S.
Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel. He received his
undergraduate degree from Emory and his law degree from
George Washington University, and was associated with a
private law firm in Washington, D.C., before joining the
justice department three years ago.

Ostroff was engaged in the private practice of law in
Buffalo, N.Y., before coming to W&L. He is a graduate of
the University of Pennsylvania and received his law degree
from Texas in 1966. He also practiced law in New York City
and for four years was a lawyer with the Internal Revenue

news briefs

Service legislation and regulations section.

Unverzagt holds the B.A. from Denison, a master’s degree in
teaching from Johns Hopkins, and the juris doctor degree
from the Hastings College of the Law of the University of
California. She has been an associate in a private law firm in
Milwaukee for three years.

The undergraduate faculty appointments are all to replace
W&L teachers who have resigned or retired. In the law
school, the additions to the faculty accompany the propor-
tional increase in the size of the student body to an esti-
mated 275 this fall (up from the 240 to 250 level in past years).
The increases in the size of both the student body and faculty
in the School of Law, of course, are possible thanks to the
opening this fall of Lewis Hall. For many years W&L had
recognized the desirability of a modest expansion in the law
school to meet the demand for well-trained lawyers and the
increasing specialization in the field of legal education;
neither was possible in ‘Tucker Hall.

OFFICIAL WASHINGTON CELEBRATES

Ll The following item written by John McKelway, ’50, appear-
ed in the “Names/Faces” column of the Washington Star (re-
printed here by permission):

“Several joyous parties and celebrations were being held
this week as various, normally worried Washington officials
learned that Clark R. Mollenhoff, a large war horse thirsty
for facts, will apparently be spending less time prowling
around the Potomac’s stinking marsh lands. He’s heading
south to a position on the faculty of the journalism school of
Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va. He’s 55,
He’ll continue writing his syndicated column, ‘Watch’ on
Washington.’ He’s a winner of the Pulitzer Prize and chief
of the Washington bureau of the Des Moines Register and
Tribune. He has exasperated Presidents. And others. Kicking
about this and that. The last war horse to head for Lexing-
ton was Lee’s Traveller.”

LAW SCHOLARSHIP FUND

HONORS ZEB HERNDON, ’27

‘1 The Berwind Corp. of Philadelphia has made a $25,000 gift
to Washington and Lee to establish an endowed honor scholar-
ship fund in the School of Law.

The gift was made in memory of the late Zeb Hamill
Herndon, a 1927 Washington and Lee graduate who was vice
president of Berwind and president of its West Virginia sub-
sidiary, Berwind Land Corp., until his retirement in 1972.
Herndon died last winter.

The Berwind gift will provide honor scholarships to out-
standing law students who are residents of West Virginia, with
first preference being given to students from Welch, where
Herndon was born and spent the first half of his life.

The new endowment also helps Washington and Lee meet
a $150,000 challenge grant from the Claude Worthington
Benedum Foundation. That grant is designated to provide fi-
nancial assistance to outstanding law students from West
Virginia generally,

After his graduation from Washington and Lee, Herndon
earned his LL.B. degree from West Virginia University and
engaged in the private practice of law in Welch until 1941.
His law partner was Thornton G. Berry Jr., a fellow Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus who is now chief justice of the West
Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals.

In 1941 Herndon became superintendent of lands for
New River & Pocahontas Consolidated Coal Co. and Kene-
land Coal & Coke Co., both of which companies later be-

13

came subsidiaries of Berwind. At the time of his retirement
four years ago he was president of Keneland, president of
Berwind Land, and vice president of the parent company.

W&L’S FACULTY IN PRINT

| Publications over the summer include a book edited by one
W&L faculty member, an anthology which includes three short
novels translated from the German by another teacher, and an
important essay written by a retired professor and published
in an international journal.

The book is Competition and Regulation: Some Economic
Concepts, edited by Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of
economics. The volume contains six papers presented last year
at a four-day conference sponsored by W&L in corporation
with the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Cos. Phillips or-
ganized and directed that 1975 symposium, and did so again
this summer for a similar W&L-CX&P series.

The essay is ‘““The Politics of Satellite Communications,”
by O. W. Riegel, professor emeritus of journalism, published
in the Journal of the Centre for Advanced Television Studies,
Riegel’s article, on a subject about which he has written ex-
tensively in recent years, examines the strategy of national
self-interest which he concludes has dominated international
policies regarding communications satellites, thereby endanger-
ing their usefulness severely.

The translations—by David B. Dickens, assistant professor
of German—are of works by Conrad Ferdinand Meyer, an im-
portant 19th-century Swiss writer. The anthology was pub-
lished by Bucknell University. Meyer, who wrote in German, is
one of the major figures in historical fiction and was a poet of
major significance as well. The new volume contains eight
other short novels in addition to the three translated by
Dickens.

LET’S HEAR IT FOR THE MEN
OF BUILDING AND GROUNDS

The real heroes of all the commotion on W&L’s campus over
the summer were, by unanimous consent, the Buildings and
Grounds staff. Moving the law school from Tucker Hall into
Lewis Hall presented an awesome challenge, and it should
have occupied the whole summer by itself, if everything had
been equal. But as it turned out, things were anything but. In
the spring the University received an anonymous grant of
$160,000 for restoration of the historic Lee-Jackson House;
that meant the Development Office, which had been quartered
there recently for want of better accommodations on campus,
would have to move by July 1. And then events developed that
suddenly put W&L in a position to proceed with the new un-
dergraduate library—and that meant massive relocations on
the back campus.

But the B&G men were up to the challenge. The Univer-
sity owns a house, a private residence until lately, on West
Washington Street, separated from the campus only by the
R. E. Lee Episcopal Church. It was not in the best shape, but
it was the only suitable place to relocate the Development Of-
fice on short notice. So in a matter of days, Buildings &
Grounds installed a central heating system and a new lighting
system; carpets were laid; every room was painted.

When it came time to move the furniture, one desk which
was to go on the top floor turned out to be too big (or the
door too small), and it couldn’t be done conventionally. No
problem, B&G declared; the men set up planks at an alarm-
ingly sharp angle and muscled the desk up onto a third-
floor balcony, After that, it was easy.

It was just about when the Development Office move had

14

been completed that it became apparent W&L would be able
to go ahead at long last with the library—but in order to take
advantage of favorable construction bids, work would have to
begin almost immediately.

That meant that a number of offices then located in the
three little utility buildings on the back campus, including
some formidably heavy and delicate equipment (the IBM
1130 computer, for example) would have to be moved—fast.

But where? To move the law school out of Tucker in such
short order would be almost impossible—for anyone but W&L’s
B&G staff. So they did. The two lower floors of Tucker Hall
would require substantial rewiring to handle the computer
and copy center equipment; they were rewired. Watching
partitions being put up was like watching a movie at triple
speed. Meantime, the mailroom was moved to an old service
station the University owns, just down the hill across from
Doremus Gym. A dozen professors’ offices, scattered among
the three buildings scheduled for removal, were relocated. So
were the registrar’s office, the photography darkroom, the pub-
lications and news offices, the computerized typesetting sys-
tem. (Regular offices such as those were a snap. Everything was
packed, moved, and reassembled, just like London Bridge, in
a few hours.)

It was all so fast, in fact, that if you didn’t pay attention,
you missed it altogether. One astonished bureaucrat was told
to be on campus at 7 a.m. if he wanted to supervise the move
of his office; the B&G people added, though, that if he wanted
to sleep until his customary late hour, he didn’t really have to
be there. And, as he found out when he arrived on campus
about a quarter to eight, they hadn’t needed him at all.

NEW SPORTS INFORMATION DIRECTOR

William R. Schnier, a recent honors graduate of Geneseo
(N. Y.) State University, is Washington and Lee’s new direc-
tor of sports information. He succeeds John Hughes, who re-
signed that post after 11 years in public-relations work at W&L
to enter the insurance business in Rockbridge County. The
changes were effective Sept. 1.

Schnier majored in speech communication and psychology
at Geneseo State and was that school’s sports information di-
rector for two and a half years. He was also sports editor of

Modal deonen!. aaj V Melber

bir
GE Bon ffh 07 fos eter sida, hier ba Sp tones t
Ae fst ag i Kame 2,; ean Ie. Leff Toad pope prenie? Fe a of
EE eo LOA fered Grane on 12 8c 2024 Lx.
Go eps I Aad Aan ates he
Jie Aaled fo aS, aed oe. o chwavs Grove conven tend fo a7
bei Fo Hava car Lands 4 a lob, Man cr defach
Wve. aficad Wick an actg v0 tia dU 2000 thener Iam fg ct
age ark bo aideg 4o Ais onn Hurd pathos th Pin Khe G2
KEA,

A 09604 Aero, L000, e—

 

Original Revolutionary War-era documents from Washington and
Lee’s archives were displayed during July in McCormick Library.
The exhibit was sponsored jointly by W&L and the Rockbridge
Bicentennial Commission. Included was a 1775 letter written by
George Washington to Capt. William Bronaugh, discussing their
adjoining land grants in what is now West Virginia. The photo
shows the first and last portions of the letter.

 

Anne L. Armstrong, U. S. ambassador to Britain, could not be
present at commencement in June to receive her honorary LL.D.
degree from Washington and Lee. So when University Treasurer
James W. Whitehead and his wife were in London this summer
they called on Mrs. Armstrong at the U. S. Embassy and presented
the degree to her in a brief ceremony. In this picture, Whitehead
reads the citation as Mrs. Whitehead holds the diploma and cere-
monial hood. Mrs. Armstrong’s husband, Tobin, is at left. Their
oldest son, Barclay, is a 1975 graduate of W&L.

the student-faculty newspaper there, columnist for another
student newspaper, and an announcer both at games and for
the campus radio and TY stations.

Hughes is a 1955 graduate of W&L. He worked on the
staffs of newspapers in Roanoke and in Charlotte, N.C., be-
fore joining the W&L administration in 1965 as director of
public relations with responsibilities for sports information in
addition to general news. In 1969 he became full-time sports
information director and, reflecting a personal interest, cura-
tor of Lee Chapel. Hughes’ Lee Chapel duties will now be
assumed by James W. Whitehead, W&L treasurer.

WASTE NOT, WANT NOT

Nobody can fairly say that Washington and Lee doesn’t
squeeze the most out of every dollar it spends. When con-
struction began over the summer on the new undergraduate
library, and the two annexes and the catch-all ‘University
Services” building had to be demolished, Buildings and
Grounds crews stripped them not only of everything that was
of value, but that might ever become of value, right down to
the little brass plates that door-bolts latch into, Even the
rubble from the buildings is being put to good use, as fill for
rough land on the undeveloped part of W&L’s property near
Liberty Hall.

First prize, though, has to go to the law library. When you
move a hundred thousand books, you have to pack them
carefully and in perfect order. In fact, there are specially
designed packing boxes to help make sure your books are
moved safely and in sequence, and W&L was obliged to buy
a whole supply of them for the law-library move. But they
didn’t end up costing the University nearly as much as they
might have—thanks to Peyton R. Neal Jr., the law librarian,
who contracted to sell them second hand when W&L was
through with them to the University of Kansas, which will be
moving its law library before too long.

THE 1976 MOCK CONVENTION:
CORRECTER THAN EVER

It’s getting to be a dog-bites-man story. The W&L Mock
Convention was right again this year, the llth time out of
16 tries.

There was a little more to it, though, than meets the
casual eye. The students had been wrong last time (when they

picked Sen. Edward M. Kennedy instead of George S. Mc-
Govern). So—perhaps to make up for that gaffe—this year they
not only prophesied the out-of-power party’s Presidential
nominee; they even predicted whom Jimmy Carter would
choose to be his running mate—Sen. Walter F. Mondale.

The only thing more to be depended on than Mock Con-
vention accuracy in the Presidential nominating sweepstakes
has always been ineptitude in guessing who would be ‘The
Man Who” once removed. W&L had never, ever been cor-
rect. The truth of the matter is, the students don’t really
try much for accuracy in choosing a vice-presidential nomi-
nee, at least not with the diligence they bring to bear in
foreguessing the top spot on the ticket.

But in 1976, the W&L students’ research and preparation
were so thorough that they seemed to know Carter’s mind
better two months in advance than his own people did during
the real convention itself. (If Doris Kearns has perfected psy-
cho-history, has W&L developed psycho-pre-history?) In May,
the W&L delegates quickly perceived that by convention
time the vice-presidential race would narrow down to a com-
petition among three senators—Mondale, John Glenn, and
Adlai Stevenson III. And by trading off votes on the floor
during the Mock Convention, and making with uncanny ac-
curacy the same political judgments Carter himself is widely
understood to have made six weeks later in his own vice-
presidential selection process, the students broke their own
record. They failed to be wrong.

What was just as remarkable, even if not quite as unpre-
cedented, was that the W&L Mock Convention predicted not
only the bottom line, but the whole chronology of Carter’s
nomination in near-perfect detail. They gauged which states
would shift in what proportions in response to which develop-
ments, and they knew the sequence in which those develop-
ments were destined to occur.

Though it took the Mock Convention two ballots to come
up with Carter, the real Democrats required less than one. In
the end, both W&L’s students and the real delegates decided
things in the same way, in the same sequence, in response to
the same political considerations. As events turned out, that
first ballot at W&L was simply a pre-convention scenario—
for all the maneuverings that took the real-life Democrats all
of May and most of June to determine.

EVERYTHING WAS IN THE SWING
IN KANSAS CITY—ALMOST

The Republicans played the Washington and Lee Swing
over and over and over in Kansas City after President Ford’s
nomination and acceptance in August—more often, even, than
California, Here I Come, and almost as often as The Victors,
the University of Michigan’s fight song. Who was about to tell
them, after all, that The Swing first came into political promi-
nence thanks to... a Democrat? It was John W. Davis, a
W&L graduate, one-time law professor, and long-time trus-
tee, who adopted it as his campaign theme song upon his
nomination in 1924. (Gerald Ford, take note: Davis lost—re-
soundingly.) In at least one respect, the W&L Mock Con-
vention one-upped the GOP as well as the Democrats this year.
The Republicans filled their balloons with helium, and when
they released them after Mr. Ford’s acceptance speech, they in-
stantly rose to the ceiling. (“They'll have to wait ‘til they tear
down the Kemper Arena before they get them back,” Harry
Reasoner remarked.) At W&L, the students sensibly filled their
balloons with air and kept them up in the rafters to start with,
so that when they released them they fell down into the
crowd, where political balloons belong.

15

Candlelight for Tucker Hall:

Cradle of an enduring spirit

During the summer, the School of
Law moved into its new building, Lewis
Hall, located across Woods Creek Valley
from the old campus. So last spring, as
the academic year was drawing to a close,
a group of law students, faculty, and staff
staged a ceremony of eulogy to the soon-
to-be-abandoned Tucker Hall. After a
hamburger cook-out at the Alumni House,
the group walked to the old law school in
a candlelit procession. They gathered in
a third-floor classroom, also illuminated
by candlelight. Then Prof. Charles
Laughlin, who taught in Tucker Hall for
36 years, intoned a eulogy to the building
and the spirit behind it. Excerpts from
his talk follow:

Both the second and third-year classes
seem to be rather unique this year. The
third-year class is the last to be graduated
from Tucker Hall. The second-year class
will be the first to be graduated from
Lewis Hall. Sometimes I have thought
about this third-year class as being like
Moses looking across the Jordan into the
Promised Land.

We can extoll the virtues of Tucker
Hall from two points of view: first, as a
building, and second, as the spirit em-
bodied in that building.

‘The present Tucker Hall is really
only 40 years old. It goes back to Feb. 17,
1936. It looks very much like the rest of
the Colonnade, though most of those
buildings go back to the last century—in
fact, some date to the early 19th cen-
tury.

 

Prof. Charles Laughlin
16

There had been another law building
at approximately same location,
which was also known as Tucker Hall.
It had been erected in 1899. Although
the law school had been connected with
Washington and Lee for more than 30
years, so far as I have been able to deter-
mine there was no distinctive law build-
ing before then. Law classes had met at
various places around the University.
The first Tucker Hall lasted from 1899
until 1934. It has been referred to as an
architectural monstrosity. Exactly what
that means, I do not know; I never saw
it; however, I have seen pictures of it.
... Whether or not it was an architec-
monstrosity, it was certainly an
evesore, in the sense that it did not har-
monize with the general architectural pat-
tern of the University. I think that many
people think that when it was destroyed,
it was an act of God.

The fire which destroyed old Tucker
Hall on Dec. 16, 1934 burned every-
thing—the library, all the offices, all the
books. Immediately, steps were set in
motion to construct another building.
Money was raised, plans were made, and
the building was actually erected in just a

this

tural

 

Tucker Hall today

bit more than a year. By Feb. 17, 1936,
the new Tucker Hall was occupied.

Though it had been completed in
rapid-fire order, the best of everything
went into this building. I’ve been assur-
ed of that. Many changes have occurred
have been academic
of them have resulted
from the material that
went into the building to begin with,
So that is the first eulogy to Tucker Hall
—it is in the building itself.

But this is not a wake. Tucker Hall
will still be here, I expect it will even
continue by that name. In fact, it attests
to the excellence of the building that
several departments are struggling to get
it. They know how good it is!

But that brings me to the second
point and that is the spirit of ‘Tucker
Hall. The money which financed this
building was raised largely from alumni.
This building is a memorial—a_ living
memorial to the devotion, the love, and
the loyalty that Washington and Lee law
alumni have had to their institution. So
that is the second eulogy to Tucker Hall.

I'd like to do a little reminiscing
about the changes in this building since
my arrival. Tucker Hall was only four
years old when I first became acquaint-
ed with it in 1940. I was here for two
years, then I left in 1942 and returned
in 1946. Some changes have occurred dur-
ing that time. Some of you asked me dur-
ing the party, “What happened during
World War II?” We were not here dur-
ing the war. At that time, the law school

since—but all
changes. None
deficiencies in

 

First Tucker Hall

got down to the point where it had two
students and three professors. It was un-
necessary to have a building this size, and
so the students and their professors met
at various places around the campus, and
‘Tucker was leased to the U. S. Army for
the Special Services. It was their main
training quarters. After the war, the law
school once again occupied Tucker Hall.

There have been lots of structural
changes during the time I’ve been here.
About the only things that haven’t chang-
ed are the dean’s office, this classroom,
the two offices across the hall and the
student lounge.

Certainly one of the distinctive in-
stitutions around here are the white
chairs in front of Tucker Hall. They have
been there ever since I’ve been here. Some
of the other departments have, at times,
tried to emulate us. You'd see chairs
come out in front of Newcomb Hall,
chairs come out in front of Washington
Hall—but they didn’t stay there very
long. The chairs in front of Tucker Hall
are seemingly perpetual. I’m wondering
what’s going to happen when we move—
when someone else takes over. Will the
chairs still be there? Or will they go

 

After the 1934 fire

when the law school goes? I don’t know
—it will be interesting to see if they are
something pertinent to the building of
Tucker Hall or something pertinent to
the spirit of Tucker Hall.

Let me digress for just a minute—
since we are moving into Lewis Hall
and since Lewis Hall was given to us by
the beneficence of another alumnus,
Sydney Lewis. I have one interesting little
anecdote that he and I always discuss
whenever we see each other. It was my
first year teaching here and I was rather
green. I had been to several other law
schools, and we’d always had a rigid
time limitation upon examinations.
During my very first exam the students
sort of took advantage of my greenness,
and they told me that here they had no
time limitations. I should have checked
that with Dean Morland, but I took their
word for it. The first examination was
an exam in torts. It started at 9 in the
morning, and they were pretty well
through by 6 in the evening. It finally
ended at 11 p.m. The point I’m leading
up to is that Sydney Lewis was a mem-
ber of that class. He was also a member
of the basketball team, During the ex-
amination he left, played a_ basketball
game, then came back and finished.

When I say we are eulogizing the
spirit of Tucker Hall, I do not merely
mean the “old-school” style of spirit, al-
though to some extent that’s true. I think
our loyal alumni are more than loyal to
an alma mater. I think they are loyal to a
tradition of excellence.

 

= ioe Ba a a

Lewis Hall

What is that tradition of excellence?
I think it is partly due to the fact that
we are a small school. I don’t mean to
say that all small schools are good;
neither do I mean to say that all large
schools are not. But there is a type of
excellence that only a small school can
realize. Not all do. I think this institu-
tion has realized it, and I believe it is
the source of this strong feeling of loyalty
our alumni have to their institution. I
have no doubt that the same thing will
continue when we move into Lewis Hall.
It’s not going to be changed.

In other words, everything is part of
what’s past. At first we'll have the spirit
of ‘Tucker Hall when the site is moved to
Lewis Hall. Eventually it will undoubt-
ably become the spirit of Lewis Hall.
That spirit, however, will always have
as part of its background the spirit of
Tucker Hall.

In closing I would like to be like
Janus—to look forward and_ backward.
I look forward to what we can antici-
pate in the future and I look back on
what we had before.
and here’s

Here’s to ‘Tucker Hall,
to Lewis Hall!

 

pth t tbe et} xa

 

Whither the white chairs?

New books
by Pusey
and Davis

Two important new books by Wash-
ington and Lee faculty members are out
this fall—one a scholarly history of the
curriculum at Washington College and
Washington and Lee University in the
middle decades of the 19th century; the
other a work of historical fiction about
the exploration of the Antarctic and dis-
covery of the South Pole early in the
20th century.

The W&L curricular history is The
Interrupted Dream: The Educational
Program at Washington College (Wash-
ington and Lee University), 1850-1880,
by Dr. William W. Pusey. The book of
fiction is A Flag at the Pole, by Paxton
Davis.

The University itself published Dr.
Pusey’s 64-page book under the imprint
“Liberty Hall Press” (from the name of
W&L’s_ Revolutionary War-era _ prede-
cessor institution). ‘Liberty Hall Press,”
the creation of Betty Munger, manager
of the W&L Bookstore, has published two
other volumes in the past, including the
best-selling reprint three years ago of
Henry Boley’s breezy Lexington in Old
Virginia, originally published in 1936.

Davis’ book is published by Atheneum.
Though A Flag at the Pole is his fifth
book, it is his first with that publisher,
one of the most prestigious in the na-
tion.

Both books were supported by grants
to the authors from Washington and
Lee’s special John M. Glenn endow-
ment. That program assists W&L faculty
members in research and writing activi-
ties both in the summers and during
sabbaticals and leaves-of-absence,

A Flag at the Pole is a series of three
evocative soliloquies constructed by
Davis through the persons of three pre-
eminent explorers—Sir Ernest Henry
Shackleton, Roald Amundsen and Ro-
bert Falcon Scott.

The years in which the dramatic
monologues in the book are set—1909;
1911, when Amundsen became the first
man actually to reach the South Pole; and
1912—represent ‘the last great geographi-

“18

 

: Se ae Rc Sar a %
» es RS Be eee SR : ‘

Dr. William W. Pusey III

cal exploration before technology took
over,’ Davis says. He carried out exten-
sive research both in America and at
Cambridge in England in preparation
for his writing.

“Shackleton’s grit, guts and gift for
leadership,” Davis observes in an epi-
logue, “took him on two further exploits,
but as before, he was destined to attempt
more than he could attain... . Amund-
sen, whose accomplishments as an ex-
plorer are unparalleled, . . . vanished over
the Arctic in 1928 while trying to save
the life of a man who had sought relent-
lessly to discredit and destroy him.
Scott’s posthumous fate was equally iron-
ic: [his own writings] . . . by their noble
stoicism and immaculate language estab-
lished his place among those durable
English heroes revered as deeply for the
beauty of their failures as for the bril-
liance of their successes; of him it can
truly be said that nothing so became his

 

 

Prof. Paxton Davis

life as the manner of his losing it.”

Davis, a professor of journalism at
W&L since 1953 and head of the depart-
ment from 1968 to 1974, is currently on
disability leave from teaching. (He suf-
fered a massive heart attack on Thanks-
giving Day 1974, and though he return-
ed to teaching last year, has been forced
in recent months to curtail his activities
severely.)

His other books are The Seasons of
Heroes (1967) and One of the Dark Places
(1965), both published by Morrow; The
Battle of New Market (1963), an account
for young readers of the famous charge
by Virginia Military Institute cadets, pub-
lished by Little, Brown; and Two Soldiers
(1956), published by Simon & Schuster.
Davis has also been book-page editor of
the Roanoke Times since 1961 and is a
contributor of editorials to the Roanoke
World-News as well.

Pusey’s book is a comparative analysis

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Etching by Harold Little from A Flag at the Pole

of the development of Washington and
Lee’s academic program before, during
and after the Civil War, in the con-
text of curricular developments at other
colleges and universities throughout the
nation, and especially in the South, at
about the same time.

He conducted meticulous research not
only in Washington and Lee’s archives
(extending to a word-by-word analysis of
the minutes of both the board of trustees
and the faculty for the entire period), but
also in the libraries of many other col-
leges as well. Dr. Pusey also examined
later historical accounts such as the late
Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw’s General Lee’s
College (Random House, 1969) and simi-
lar histories of other institutions and
of higher education in general. (His 182
footnotes, according to early reader re-
ports, are as lively and illuminating as
any footnotes ever printed anywhere.)

The title of Dr. Pusey’s book derives

from his thesis that although Robert E.
Lee did indeed transform the little classi-
cal school he found in 1865 into a for-
ward-looking liberal-arts university, Lee’s
death in 1870 sent the institution into
limbo for some years as a “prisoner of
history.”

“When it is all said and done,” he
writes, “it is legitimate to conclude, even
at the risk of the accusation of hagio-
graphy, that . . . General Lee, with sub-
stantial assistance from faculty and trus-
tees, effected an almost unparalleled me-
tamorphosis of a sleepy, though latently
sturdy, school into one of the two or three
leading collegiate institutions of the
South.”

But in the last decades of the 19th
century, Washington and Lee found itself
“adrift in social and economic currents
over which it had little control,” Dr. Pusey
writes. “In addition, it lacked the effec-
tive leadership that at least to some ex-

tent might have stayed its decline: mem-
ories of General Lee were not enough.
... It remained for others in later eras to
renew—and modify—the dream that Lee’s
death and the college’s subsequent hard
times had so rudely interrupted.”

Pusey has taught at Washington and
Lee since 1939, the year he received his
Ph.D. from Columbia. He is S. Blount
Mason Jr. professor of German, and until
last spring was head of the department.
From 1960 until 1971 he was Dean of ‘The
College; for six months in 1967-68, after
Dr. Fred C. Cole resigned and before
Robert E. R. Huntley took office, he was
Acting President of the University. Soon
after leaving the deanship five years ago,
he began developing W&L’s program in
Asian studies, now one of the foremost
programs of its kind at the undergradu-
ate level.

He has written extensively on the
topics of German language and literature,
and is now engaged in a scholarly in-
vestigation (a spinoff from his Interrupt-
ed Dream research) into the life of Junius
Fishburn, a professor of classics at Wash-
ington College before the Civil War who
died ‘“‘prematurely at 28.” (Fishburn
seems to have been a teacher of extra-
ordinarily demanding standards, Dr.
Pusey confided at lunch one day last
summer. “But it was probably just coin-
cidence,” says the one-time dean, now
liberated, “that his death—from measles—
came only a month after the students had
hanged him in effigy.”)

 

Both books are available to alumni
through the W&L Bookstore,

Dr. Pusey’s The Interrupted Dream
(paperbound) is $1 postpaid.

Prof. Davis’ A Flag at the Pole (hard-
back) is $5.75 postpaid. (That price in-
corporates the 10 per cent special dis-
count for alumni from the publisher’s list
price, with postage added.)

Orders should be addressed to WeL
Bookstore, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Va. 24450.

 

19

Alumni Fund reaches new high,
exceeds goal by 8.6 per cent

The 1975-76 Alumni Fund was another record-setter. When
the books were closed on June 30, the fund had reached an
all-time high of $602,776—almost $100,000 more than last year’s
total of $505,204, which was itself a record. The 1975-76 total
exceeded the fund goal of $555,000 by 8.6%.

Moreover, the number of donors and percentage of partici-
pation were up sharply. Donors numbered 4,970, up 481 from
last year. Participation was 36.2%, a gain of 2.7% over last
year. Last year’s fund registered a slight drop in these cate-
gories. Also the average gift was $121.28, another record, up
from last year’s all-time high of $112.54.

The amount contributed to the Alumni Fund in 1975-76
was virtually double the amount raised in the fund only five
years ago, when the total was $302,000.

J. Carter Fox, ’61, Alumni Fund chairman, hailed the
results as a milestone of generosity on the part of Washing-
ton and Lee alumni and cited the hard work of the volunteer
Class Agents.

“Without a doubt,” he said, “the enthusiasm of the volun-
teer workers was the key to the success of the fund. There was
an air of excitement and eagerness to work. The Class Agents,
in almost every case, did far more work than was even ex pect-
ed. It has been a very good year! We look forward to the
1976-77 drive with enthusiasm and confidence.”

Fox extended special congratulations to the trophy winners:

The Washington Trophy—for the largest amount raised
by an academic class graduated in the last 50 years—went to the
Class of 1940, Eugene Kramer, Class Agent, with a record
setting total of $32,361.

The Richmond Trophy—for the highest participation by an
academic class graduated in the last 50 years—went to the Class
of 1938A, Ernie Williams, Class Agent, with a participation of
54.4%.

The Bierer Trophy—for the highest participation by an
academic class graduated in the last 10 years—went to the
Class of 1971A, John McCardell Jr., Class Agent, with a par-
ticipation of 38.7%.

The Malone Trophy—for the largest amount raised by a
law class graduated in the last 50 years, went to the Class of
1938L, Dan Wilkinson, Class Agent, with a record-setting
total of $9,790.

The trophies will be awarded during Homecoming-Re-
union Weekend Nov. 12-13.

The $602,776 raised in 1975-76 covered 8.7% of the Uni-
versity’s educational and general operating budget, compared
to 6 to 7% in recent years. In 1975-76, a total of 159 alumni
contributed at the Lee Associates level of $1,000 or more, 13
more than last year, and 1,503 gave at the Colonnade Club
level of $100 or more, up from the previous year’s 1,299.

20

 

REPORT OF ALUMNI FUND
June 30, 1976

1975-76 1974-75
Goal $555,000 $470,000
Net Total Received $602,776 $505,204
Percent of Goal 108.6% 107.5%
Number of Donors 4,970 4,489
Percent Participation 36.2% 33.5%
Number of Increased Gifts 1,345 1,407
Number of Decreased Gifts 425 421
Number Giving Same 1,774 1,636
Number of Returnees 953 619
Number of New Gifts 473 406
Number of Gifts of $100 or More 1,662 1,445
Average Gift $121.28 $112.54

 

Dan Wilkinson, ’38L
Malone Trophy Winner

Ernie Williams, ’38A
Richmond Trophy Winner

A picture of

Eugene Kramer, ’40A
Washington Trophy
Winner, was not
available

 

John McCardell Jr., ’71A
Bierer Trophy Winner

 

REPORT OF ALUMNI FUND BY CLASSES

ACADEMIC CLASSES

LAW CLASSES

 

 

 

%

Class Class Agent Donors Dollars Part.
191I5A R. N. Latture 19 1,601 61.3
1924A H. D. Leake 37 6,151 38.9
Old Guard W. C. Washburn 185 30,953 33.3
1926A D. C. West 4] 7,916 40.2
1927A G. W. McRae 36 6,045 30.8
1928A S. A. Wurzburger 45 13,304 41.7
1929A T. G. Gibson 56 7,780 40.6
1930A E. T. Jones 69 11,614 52.7
1931A S. Sanders II 57 14,590 37.7
1932A J. R. Hornor 62 4,208 41.9
1933A C. J. Longacre 57 11,351 38.8
1934A S. Mosovich 80 8,727 46.2
1935A J. M. Franklin 55 4,705 36.9
1936A G. W. Harrison 58 10,014 36.5
1937A A. A. Radcliffe 71 7,815 39.9
1938A E. Williams 93 18,379 54.4
1939A W. A. Jenks 69 12,061 33.2
1940A E. M. Kramer 53 32,361 31.5
1941A C. M. Walker 87 30,016 43.1
1942A R. G. Browning 78 13,009 38.2
1943A K. L. Shirk Jr. 83 10,013 38.6
1944A E. R. Marable 67 9,694 38.3
1945A C. S. Rowe 52 13,588 34.2
1946A D. S. Hillman 45 3,870 32.8
1947A W. G. Merrin 16 2,350 22.9
1948A H. R. Gates 26 6,021 31.0
19494 __E. S. Epley 106 —«11,934 52.5
1950A D. A. Malmo 77 11,799 25.5
1951A J. E. Moyler Jr. 108 11,358 46.6
1952A R. S. Griffith 98 6,859 41.5
1953A H. S. Glickstein 82 6,920 36.1
1954A F. A. Parsons 95 22,320 44.0
1955A J. W. Stackhouse 63 7,644 31.8
1956A W. C. Norman Jr. 96 7,840 39.7
1957A S. M. Ehudin 79 6,895 37.1
1958A H. F. LeBrun 56 7,940 23.2
19594 CG. D. Hurt Jr. 86 6,123 37.6
1960A R. P. Hawkins 86 8,915 34.8
1961A W. R. Johnston 98 10,252 43.8
1962A R. Page III 85 6,705 31.0
1963A R. W. Payne 126 8,442 42.6
1964A B. Gamber 110 11,240 37.7
1965A R. R. Kreitler 83 29,638 30.0
1966A R. C. Vaughan III 87 4.412 27.4
1967A G. Apgar 109 6,595 36.6
1968A W. F. Stone Jr. 61 3,226 20.1
1969A J. E. Brown 91 5,270 27.9
1970A R. H. Yevich 79 3,976 22.3
1971A ‘J. M. McCardell Jr. 134 4,836 38.7
1972A R. M. Turnbull 126 4,397 35.4
1973A G. A. Frierson 102 2,818 27.1
1974A M. Guroian 112 2,594 30.0
1975A B. H. Turnbull 93 1,715 25.4
ACADEMIC TOTALS 4,152 522,464 35.4

%
Class Class Agent Donors Dollars Part.
Old Guard W. C. Washburn 40 6,750 27.6
1926L W. H. Brown Jr. 7 650 100.0
1927L C. T. Smith 9 1,044 69.2
1928L T. B. Bryant Jr. 5 1,625 35.7
1929L S. C. Strite 5 500 31.2
1930L M. J. Arnd 7 2,224 46.7
1931L E. Allen 7 4,948 38.1
1932L J. S. Shields 10 2,769 37.0
1933L F. R. Bigham 10 460 50.0
1934L R. D. Bailey 6 3,725 30.0
1935L E. T. Coulbourn 8 3,097 50.0
1936L W. H. Seaton 5 300 33.3
1937L H. T. Moreland 13 1,760 61.9
1938L D. W. Wilkinson Jr. 13 9,790 65.0
1939L J. D. Goodin , 19 1,075 51.4
1940L J. N. Harman III 10 4,120 45.5
1941. G.M. Smith Jr. — 15 1,375 55.6
19421 H. A. Jones Jr. 10 1,106 30.3
1948L. C. R. Allen 33 3,945 43.4
1949L W. D. Bain Jr. 24 6,780 33.8
1950L S. I. White 23 2,175 48.9
1951L G. J. Kostel 17 1,140 21.8
1952L W. M. Anderson 26 3,488 49.1
1953L R. L. Banse 11 665 31.4
1954L K. L. White 22 1,610 75.9
1955L J. M. Faison 14 882 35.6
1956L T. W. Turner 6 600 24.0
1957L D. K. Frith 14 2,652 42.4
1958L R. G. McCullough 10 938 38.5
1959L O. A. Neff 12 905 34.3
1960L G. H. Fralin Jr. 14 1,240 37.8
1961L W. F. Ford 15 2,302 37.5
1962L W. R. Moore Jr. 9 270 22.5
1963L T. G. Ireland 11 540 28.9
1964L R. L. Lawrence 15 745 30.6
1965L F. A. Sutherland 15 725 31.2
1966L H. Angel 23 1,431 44.2
1967L W. R. Reynolds 20 1,505 34.5
1968L D. H. Adams 33 1,300 42.3
1969L D. D. Redmond 30 708 42.9
1970L B. B. Cummings 26 1,010 51.0
1971L F. G. Davidson 19 785 33.9
1972L S. M. Hurtt 29 948 39.7
1973L J. C. Moore 54 1,246 53.5
1974L J. S. Kline 48 1,517 54.5
1975L A. P. Didier 46 714 56.8
LAW TOTALS 818 90,082 41.1
Overall Totals 4,970 $612,546 36.2
Less Uncompleted Pledges -9,770
FINAL NET TOTALS 4970 $602,776 36.2

 

 

21

Chapter news

RICHMOND. Chapter officers and a
small group of current students enter-
tained a number of incoming freshmen
from the Richmond area at the home of
Samuel C. Dudley, ’58, a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors, on June 9.
‘Twenty freshmen from the area were to
enter W&L this fall. Jeff Williams, ’65,
chapter president, welcomed the fresh-
men and thanked Dudley for his hospi-
tality. Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn
represented the University.

BALTIMORE. Mr. and Mrs. J. Richard
O’Connell, ’56, were hosts at a garden
cocktail party at their home in Ruxton
on June 19. ‘The occasion honored recent
W&L graduates from the area as well as
current students. Approximately 75 alum-
ni and their wives were present and en-
joyed a lovely buffet supper. John H.
(Butch) West, ’65, chapter president,
thanked the O’Connells on behalf of the
chapter and the officers. Alumni Secre-
tary Bill Washburn was present from
Lexington.

Early spring was busy for the Balti-
more chapter. On March 27, the chapter
held a party at the Dockside Restaurant
in Annapolis after the W&L-Navy la-
crosse game. Disappointment over the
W&L loss faded as old friends enjoyed a
hot buffet and recollections of the “good
old days.”’ Many alumni from the Greater
Washington Area were guests along with
E. Marshall Nuckols, rector of the Board
of Trustees, and Mrs. Nuckols from
Newtown, Pa.

A week later on April 3, University
Trustee Frank C. Brooks opened his
home to the chapter as it entertained
seniors of local prep schools and high
schools who had been accepted for ad-
mission to W&L. Twenty-seven such stu-
dents and their parents met with the
group and had an opportunity to discuss
W&L and its unique characteristics. Jim
Dawson, '68, and Joe Wich, ’69, received
special thanks from the chapter for ar-
ranging the successful and enjoyable pro-

gram.
22

 

Jr., 52, with Alumni Director Samuel C. Dudley, °57, and Jeff Williams III, ’65,
chapter president.

 

2.8 Eee 2 ee ee 4

OM EEE OBESE. DI: ARAL COLES: ILEDVE DIA a

 

BALTIMORE—Alumni enjoy themselves at home of Mr. and Mrs. J. Richard
O’Connell, ’56.

 

BALTIMORE—University Trustee Frank C. Brooks, ’46, greets alumni.

Also in April, the following officers
were elected for 1976-77: John H. West
III, ’65, president; John A. Wolf, ’72,
vice president; James J. Dawson, ’71,
secretary; and William Rienhoff, ’74,
treasurer.

ROANOKE. Alumni gathered recently
at Hidden Farm, home of Bruce Wilsie,
‘72, and Jonathan Rogers, ’74L, for an
afternoon of swimming and _ volleyball,
followed by a plentiful picnic lunch. In-
coming freshmen from the area were
special guests, During a brief business
session, the following new officers were
elected: Bill Andrews, ’72, president;
Ned Baber, ’59, vice president; and Jay
Turner, ’71L, secretary-treasurer. Wilsie
and Don Huffman, ’66L, made the prin-
cipal arrangements for the meeting. Rep-
resenting the University were Alumni Sec-

 

ROANOKE—William L. Andrews III, ’72, chapter president, with Freshmen William
retary Bill Washburn and Assistant Alum- F. Hill, Millard N. Radford, Abney S. Boxley, Albin B. Hammond Jr., and
ni Secretary Marty Bass and their wives. Ned Baber, ’59, vice president.

ALUMNI CHAIR SALES
BOOST SCHOLARSHIP FUND

Profit from the sales of the Wash-
ington and Lee Chair continues to pro-
duce substantial sums in support of the
John Graham Scholarship Fund, which
honors the memory of John Graham of
the Class of 1914 and helps worthy young
men attend the University. The Alumni
Association, through its sponsorship of
the chair sales, has supported the schol-
arship for many years.

The Alumni Board of Directors re-
cently authorized an additional contribu-
tion of $1,000 to the scholarship fund,
and in the picture at the left Assistant
Alumni Secretary Marty Bass (right) pre-
sents a check for that amount to Direc-
tor of Student Financial Aid Van Pate.
This most recent gift brought the schol-
arship fund total to more than $20,000.

It’s clear that when you buy a Wash-
ington and Lee Chair you do more than
acquire a fine piece of furniture. You
also help support the University’s student
financial aid program.

 

23

Class notes

 

 

 

 

‘THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

‘The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $68.00 f.o.b.
Lexington, Virginia

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your
check. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

ae

1920

The Kentucky Bar Association has _ con-
ferred the title of senior counselor on JOSEPH
C. Hopson, an attorney of Prestonburg, Ky.,
in recognition of more than 50 years of
honorable service at the state bar and for his
continued interest in the advancement of
the profession of law. The ceremony took
place May 14 at a luncheon held at the Galt
House in Louisville.

1927

R. WILBUR SIMMONS and his wife Nell have
retired and live in Claremont, Calif.

1928

THURLOW C. GUINN is retired from Liberty
National Life Insurance Co. He lives on a
farm and enjoys woodworking and raising
cattle, flowers and vegetables. He and his
wife have three children, five grandchildren
and two great-grandchildren.

L934

SAMUEL A. MILLINER JR., an assistant secre-
tary of the duPont Co. and secretary to the
executive, finance and compensation commit-
tees, retired June 30 after a career of nearly
45 years. Milliner also had served nearly 30
years as an assistant secretary of duPont’s
subsidiary, the Remington Arms Co., and
secretary to that firm’s board of directors.
He also held secretarial positions with sev-
eral other company subsidiaries. Milliner
joined duPont in October 1931 in the for-
mer explosives department, and advanced
to office manager in that department before
being assigned to the executive committee
office in October 1946 as an assistant to the
secretary of the executive and finance com-
mittees. He was elected an assistant secre-
tary of the company in 1950 and was named
secretary to the executive committee in 1966.
Milliner lives in Chester County, Pa.

GILMORE N. NUNN, now engaged in real
estate and investment businesses in Lexing-
ton, Ky., was awarded an honorary Doctor
of Humane Letters degree from Transyl-
vania University during its commencement
program in June. Nunn was a newspaper
publisher and radio-TV broadcaster in the
Southwest and Southeast from 1931-1960. He
is presently a member of the National Press
Club, Sigma Delta Chi, and has served as
a director for the National Association of
Broadcasters. He is a former vice-consul to
Portugal and was a U. S. delegate and a
U.N. delegate for Hemispheric Communica-

 

G. N. Nunn, ’31

tions, 1948-1958. Nunn is active in numer-
ous civic organizations including the Cham-
ber of Commerce and the Community Chest.
He has been a member of Transylvania’s
Board of Curators since 1949.

1934

Dr. JAcK T. JARRETT is the staff physician
at the McGuire Veterans’ Administration
Hospital in Richmond, Va.

1935

Lewis W. MARTIN, retired from Berks Title
Insurance Co., is still most active. He prac-
tices law and is a partner in the firm of
Martin, Meyer & Rothenberg in Richmond.
He is also chairman of the board of Lin-
coln Savings & Loan and vice president of
Martin Chevrolet Co.

1936

Dr. ‘THOMAS H. ALPHIN is deputy vice presi-
dent for administration of the University of
Alabama Birmingham Medical Center.

1940

BRENT H. FARBER JR. has had a varied career
since his days at Washington and Lee. He
entered the family business, served three and
a half years in the Navy, opened a clothing
store in Baltimore, later entered the laundry
and dry cleaning business, and now, after a
span of 35 years, is partner of Multiservice
Management Co., a professional management
firm for associations, located in Philadelphia.
The company manages 19 associations—six
are national and the balance are state and
local associations. Farber is married to the
former Bettie Field. Their family is com-
posed of four daughters and three grandchil-

dren.
194]

Rosert H. ADAMs, a government employee in
research and development, lives in Falls
Church, Va. He and his wife have seven
children.

JOHN W. WEATHERS is president of Weathers
Marketing Co., Inc., a food brokerage busi-
ness in Charlotte, N. C.

1944

EARLE PALMER BROWN, chairman and found-
er of Earle Palmer Brown & Associates, an
advertising agency in the Washington, D.C.,
area, has been elected chairman of the Mid-
Atlantic Council of the American Associa-
tion of Advertising Agencies. The AAAA

is the national association of the advertising
agency business. Its 405 members include
practically all of America’s major agencies.
The Mid-Atlantic Council is made up of
agencies from Washington, D. C., Maryland,
Virginia and West Virginia.

WILLIAM B. VAN BurEN has been elected to
the position of vice president and secretary
of Merck & Co., Inc. He was formerly director
of corporate development. In addition to be-
ing secretary of the company, his new posi-
tion will include stockholder relations, rep-
resenting the company externally on select-
ed public and governmental matters and di-
recting The Merck Co. Foundation and
other philanthropic activities. After prac-
ticing with several New York law firms, Van
Buren joined Merck’s legal department in
1955. He became counsel to the Merck, Sharp
& Dohme Division at West Point, Pa., in
1957; was appointed assistant to the president
of that division in 1960; and was the divi-
sion’s director of planning from 1962 until
1964 when he assumed his most recent posi-
tion. Van Buren is a member of the bar as-
sociation of New York City; vice chairman
of the Watchung (N.J.) Board of Adjustments
and recently completed four years of service
as member, vice president and acting presi-
dent of the Watchung Hills Regional High
School Board of Education. He and his wife,
the former Joan C. Whitford, have four chil-

dren.
1945

PeTER M. FETTEROLF is president and estate
manager for the Sugar Creek Coal Company
and the Millfield Coal Co. He and his wife
have three sons and one daughter. The
Fetterolfs live in Bryn Mawr, Pa.

1947

Haro_p T. CHITTUM Jr. has completed his
fifth year as sales engineer and geologist
with Layne-Atlantic Co., a well-digging firm
based in Orlando, Fla.

Ropert M. WorrELL retired Jan. 1, 1975,
after serving as judge of the 27th West Vir-
ginia Judicial Circuit. He is presently en-
gaged in private law practice in Pineville,

W.Va.
1948

THomMas G. MCCLELLAN JR. (See 1976, Mc-

Clellan.)
1949

Since August 1975 BRIAN BELL has been
counselor for public affairs at the American
Embassy in Santiago. This assignment follows

W. B. Van Buren, ’44

three years as the public affairs advisor for
Latin American Affairs at the State De-
partment in Washington. He recently com-
pleted an assignment as Public Affairs Ad-
visor to the U. S. Delegation to the General
Assembly of the Organization of American
States (OAS).

R. T. PICKETT is assistant professor of en-
gineering at Piedmont Virginia Community
College and lives in Charlottesville.

1950

JAMEs K. PRUITT, a specialist in computer
business systems since 1956, is manager of
business system development for J. P. Stevens
& Co. of Charlotte, N. C. He and his wife Sue
have three children. Sue is a real estate bro-
ker.

ROBERT VANBUREN, vice chairman of the Mid-
lantic National Bank of Newark, N.J., has
been named chairman and chief executive

officer.
195]

In addition to his job on the Greensboro
Record, ABE D. JONEs has written a book
about the North Carolina city entitled
Greensboro 27. He is also compiling a Bi-
centennial diary for his newspaper which de-
picts 1776 events in the Greensboro area.

Dr. Ropert H. SALIsBuRY was named presi-
dent-elect of the Midwest Political Science
Association at its 34th annual meeting in
Chicago this summer. He is professor of
political science and director of the Center
for the Study of Public Affairs at Washing-
ton University in St. Louis. He has been
on the faculty there since 1955 and _ has
been chairman of the political science de-
partment since 1966.

 

 

FIVE ON TAMPA BOARD

It would not be surprising if the
board of trustees of the University of
Tampa occasionally sings the Wash-
ington and Lee Swing. Five of the 32
Tampa trustees are W&L alumni.
They are: David C. G. Kerr, ’51, vice
chairman of the Tampa board and
chairman of its executive committee;
J. Thomas Touchton, ‘60, treasurer
and chairman of the finance commit-
tee; Charles P. Lykes, ’39; Herbert Mc-
Kay, °51, and Hugh C. Macfarlane,
‘40, 46L. All are residents of ‘Tampa.

 

 

 

 

R. H. Salisbury, ’51

1952

Dr. Ropert A. MASLANSKY has been appoint-
ed chairman of the department of medical
education and associate medical director of
Cook County Hospital in Chicago, IIl.

BARKLEY J. STURGILL has been appointed
chairman of the Kentucky Public Service
Commission by Governor Carroll. Sturgill
has served on the commission for four years.

PAUL D. WEILL is supervisor of manpower
selection for the life and variable annuity
marketing department of Aetna Life & Cas-
ualty Co. He and his wife live in Weatogue,
Conn., and have four children.

1953

JoHN D. MAGuriRE, president of New York
College at Old Westbury, N. Y., is a visit-
ing professor of humanities at Silliman Uni-
versity in the central Phillipines and _ visit-
ing lecturer at the Chinese University of
Hong Kong for the 1976-77 academic year.
The appointment was made by the United
Board for Christian Higher Education in
Asia. A former winner of Danforth Founda-
tion’s E. Harris Harbison Prize for out-
standing college teaching in the nation, Ma-
guirefs academic assignment at Silliman
marks his official return to the classroom
after eight consecutive years of administra-
tive assignments. He is teaching an under-
graduate honors course on “Contemporary
Issues Through Great Books’ and delivering
a series of public lectures during his five-
month stay in the Phillipines. Maguire is a
permanent trustee of the Martin Luther
King Jr. Center for Social Change; is presi-
dent of the Society for Values in Higher Edu-
cation; president of the Nassau County
Health and Welfare Council and is vice
chairman of the Association of American
Colleges’ Commission on Liberal Learning.
His wife Lillian Louise and their three
daughters are with Maguire during his stay

in Asia.
1954

Dr. HENRY R. BRANDSTETTER is responsible for
the new chamber of commerce building in
Graz, Austria.

WALTER W. Dicc6s is assistant professor in the
department of family medicine at the Uni-
versity of ‘Tennessee Center for Health
Sciences. He also serves as adjunct professor
in the Memphis State University department
of political science where they have begun
a master’s degree program in health admini-
stration.

25

 

Class Notes

NORMAN L. DoByNns has been named to the
newly-created position of vice president of
government relations at Cutler-Hammer, Inc.
His office is located in Washington, D.C.
Dobyns has been associated with the General
Electric Company in advertising and public
relations capacities in Chicago, Philadel-
phia and Schenectady. From 1967 to 1974
he was with the American Can Company in
New York and Washington. During this
time he advanced from manager of the
government relations office to the position of
vice president of the company. For the
past two years Dobyns has been a senior vice
president of the National Association of
Manufacturers which is responsible for mem-
bership relations and marketing, public af-
fairs and economic education. In his new
post, Dobyns will be responsible for evaluat-
ing legislative and regulatory issues having
an impact on Cutler-Hammer at the federal,
state and local level.

Dr. B. PHILLIP KOCEN is a pediatrician with
the Austin, Texas, children’s clinic and
holds the position of associate professor in
the teaching program of the Central Texas
Medical Foundation under the auspices of
the University of Texas Medical School. He
and his wife Elizabeth have seven children.

STEPHEN SLOAN is former president of Lect-
man Realty Corp., a division of Lectman
Bros. Investment Bankers. In 1974 he formed
a partnership with Worldwide Volkswagen
Corp. for the purchase and investment of
United States real estate. Sloan is now
president of Worldwide Realty Corp.; a di-
rector of: Aquire Corp., a New York Stock
Exchange member, the Pacific Design Cen-
ter, a Los Angeles venture with Southern
Pacific Railway, the Realty Foundation of
New York, the American League of Anglers,
the Master Angling Tournament and a
trustee of the Horace Mann School. Sloan
holds three world records for marlin, shark
and tuna catches. He and his wife Nancy
have two children and the family resides
in New York City.

1955

W. TEMPLE WEBBER JR. has joined Boyden
Associates, Inc., an executive search consul-
tant firm in Houston, Texas, as an associate
and manager of the Houston office. Follow-
ing graduation from W&L Webber joined
Temple Industries, a diversified forest pro-
ducts company, and advanced to district
manager in the retail division supervising
nine stores in east Texas. In 1960 he became

26

 

N. L. Dobyns, ’54

an officer in the business development and
marketing area of the Texas National Bank
in Houston. In 1964 Webber joined the
Southern National Bank and _ advanced
through various areas of the bank to be-
come senior vice president in charge of
correspondent banks, business development
and marketing, a position he held from 1970
to 1974. More recently he has been a regi-
stered representative for Rauscher Pierce
Securities Corp. in Houston. 2

Dr. WATSON A. BowEs JR. has been promoted
to professor of obstetrics and gynecology at
the University of Colorado Medical Center.

ROBERT H. INGHAM is copy director at Wel-
born Advertising Agency in Springfield, N.J.
He also writes radio commercials for Mon-
mouth Park, the thoroughbred race track in
Oceanport, N. J.

1956

Dr. DEAN sMCKNIGHT is a flight surgeon at
Miramar Naval Air Station in California.
He expects assignment to the Aviation Safety
Center at Norfolk, Va.

1958

J. J. CRAWForRD Jr. writes that he is still with
the North Sea Sun Oil Co., Ltd., doing ex-
ploration for oil and gas.

1959

J. M. (MIKE) WINsTON has been named presi-
dent of the Mortgage Bankers Association of
Washington, D. C.

1960

E. PETER LITTON is vice president and gen-
eral manager for Litton, Inc., the Volks-
wagen and Audi automobile dealership in
Little Rock, Ark.

JAMEs E. REID is a reporter for The Press
Democrate of Santa Rosa, Calif. He and his
wife have two sons and a daughter.

Dr. MERVYN F. SILVERMAN is director of the
Wichita Sedquick County Dept. of Com-
munity Health, medical director of Planned
Parenthood of Kansas, adjunct associate
professor of Tulane University School of
Public Health and Tropical Medicine, clini-
cal associate of Wichita State University
Branch of the University of Kansas School
of Medicine and a member of the teaching
staff at the Wesley Medical Center in
Wichita.

 

 

E. R. Wooten Jr., ’64

1961

Lr. Cmpr. Hayes I. (JERRY) GORDON is in
command of the Naval Security Activity in
Anchorage, Alas., and was featured in the
Anchorage Daily News for the installation
of Bicentennial signs on the two major high-
ways leading into the city.

Dr. DAvip R. SHENSA is associate professor
of oral surgery at the University of Pitts-
burgh School of Dental Medicine. He also
has a private practice in oral surgery. Shen-
sa is an examiner for the American Society of
Oral Surgeons, chairman of the credential
committee of the local hospital, chairman
of the department of oral surgery and a
board of directors’ member of the Central
Medical Pavillion.

1962

‘THOMAS L. FEAZELL has been named general
attorney of Ashland Oil, Inc. He joined the
company in 1965 as a staff attorney. In his
new position he performs a variety of legal
services for the corporation and manages
the activities of the corporate staff attor-
neys. His headquarters are in Ashland, Ky.,
where the corporation has its petroleum di-
vision headquarters.

1963

WILLIAM H. CANDLER has been appointed
vice president and director of marketing for
the Donning Co./Publishers, Inc., of Vir-
ginia Beach. He is a former assistant pro-
fessor and presidential assistant at Old Domi-
nion University. Before joining that univer-
sity in 1972, Candler served with the office
of the Judge Advocate General in the De-
partment of the Army in Washington, D.C.,
and practiced law briefly in Heathsville, Va.
He first came to Norfolk as an associate of
the law firm of Boyd, Davis and Payne in

1970.
1964

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FREDERIC W. Boye, a
daughter, Allison Page, on April 19. Boye
is production superintendent for Shell Oil
Company’s producing operations in Michi-
gan. The family lives in Traverse City,
Mich.

KENNETH P. LANE Jr. is family counselor for
the Rockbridge Mental Health Clinic. He
lives in Lexington.

Eric H. WItson, his wife Ginney and their
two sets of twins, Becky and Kelly, 5 years
old, and Russ and Randy, 3 years old, live in

Miami where Eric is the systems develop-
ment manager for the Miami Police Dept.

E. RANDOLPH WOOTTON Jr. has been named
director of marketing and advertising for
the car and commercial leasing division of
the Hertz Corporation. Prior to joining
Hertz, Wootton had been associate director
of marketing for C.P.C. International, Inc.,
a New Jersey-based consumer food products
company. He and his wife Susan and their
three children live in Ridgewood, N.J.

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES W. DEYOUNG,
a son, Peter Dillingham, on April 5. The
young man joins an older brother, Jamie.
The family resides in Chicago. DeYoung is
associated with Baxter ‘Travenal Labora-
tories, Inc., in Deerfield, Tl.

JOEL BENNETT is a resident of Juneau, Alas.,
where he is employed each year for six
months as counsel to the Alaska Legislature.
The balance of the year he makes independ-
ent documentary films and has finished a
color film entitled ““The Bears of Admiralty
Island.”

After serving as chief resident in obstetrics
and gynecology at the Johns Hopkins Hos-
pital, DR. ADAM J. FIELDER has entered pri-
vate practice in Richmond, Va. He and his
wife Sally have two children.

Lt. CoL. RONALD J. KAYE is finishing his tour
as the staff judge advocate at Camp Butler
in Okinawa and expects to transfer to
southern California in September.

After graduate work in English at Vander-
bilt University, Oxford and the University
of Michigan, HAt L. HoLuapay received
his Ph.D. from Michigan this summer. He
has also worked as a heavy equipment opera-
tor in Tennessee, a construction worker in
Vermont and a farm laborer in Gloucester-
shire, England. Holladay is presently an as-
sistant professor at Hamilton College. He
and his wife have three children.

WoopwarpD D. OPENO holds an M.A. in art
history from Oberlin College and is a Ph.D.
art history candidate at the University of
Michigan. ‘This past summer Openo spent his
third season with the University of Pennsyl-
vania Expedition excavating the ancient sanc-
tuary of Demeter at Cyrene in Libya. He
returned to the U.S. in the middle of
September.

JAMES M. SLAY Jr. is a practicing attorney in

the firm of Constable, Alexander & Daneker,
in their Easton, Md., office. He and his wife
Martha reside in St. Michaels, Md.

ROBERT F. STAUFFER is assiStant professor of
economics at Hollins College.

Rospert G. THomas, formerly assistant coun-
sel of the New York State banking depart-
ment, has now joined the law firm of Yama-
da and Condemi of New York City.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs E. REDEN-
BAUGH, a son, Jonathan Bennett, on July 1.
The family lives in Charlottesville, Va.,
Where Redenbaugh is a research associate
with the comprehensive epilepsy program.

J. D. Humpurres III has formed a new law
partnership in Atlanta called Morton, Hum-
phries & Payne.

WILLIAM H. CANDLER (See 1963.)

1967
MARRIAGE: Davin P. BENDANN Jr. and
Anne Duffy, in December 1975. The couple
lives in Baltimore, Md., where Bendann is
associated with the Gilman School.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, E. B. ROBERTSON, a
daughter, Sandra Gildea. The family lives
in Koeln, Germany, where Robertson is as-
sociated with the Ford Motor Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. J. Werst III, a
daughter, Kimberly Nichols, on Dec. 27,
1975. The family lives in Louisville, Ky.

Epwarp E. BATEs JR. is a partner in the law
firm of Westmoreland, Hall, McGee and
Warner in Atlanta, Ga.

THomas C. Davis III was ordained at West-
minster Church in Wilmington, Del., on
June 20. Davis is a doctoral candidate at
Pittsburgh ‘Theological Seminary and _ has
been called to serve as campus pastor to
Presbyterian and Methodist students at Duke
University.

Dr. Ropert L. HOLT has entered the private
practice of peridontics in West Palm Beach,
Fla.

ARON L, SuNA (See 1974, Arthur.)

1968

MARRIAGE: CHARLES HOWARD CAPITO and
Ellen Wylie Milligan on May 15 in Greene-
ville, Tenn. Among the members of the

wedding party were Leroy Cole Atkins TI,
‘68 and Alexander S. Jones, 68. The couple
lives in New York City. Capito is an account
officer at First National City Bank.

MARRIAGE: JouN M. LEE and Robin Haig
of Perth, Australia, in January 1976. In
March, Lee completed requirements for the
Ph.D. degree in English literature at the
University of Wisconsin, where he was a
teaching assistant for three years. Robin is
a principal dancer with the Scottish Na-
tional Ballet based in Glasgow. She origi-
nally danced in England with the Royal
Ballet.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs, JEFFREY G. LAWSON,
twin daughters, Mary Roselle and Margaret
Munnis, on Feb. 15. Lawson has recently
completed two years with the U.S. Public
Health Service. He is presently completing a
fellowship in the study of infectious diseases
at the Memphis city hospital in Memphis,
‘Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD H. NASH Jr.,
a son, Richard Hafford III, on Dec. 21,
1975. Nash has resigned as chief judge of
the juvenile court in Louisville, Ky., and
will resume the private practice of law there.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. Warp IV, a
son, Peter MacPherson, on March 24. The
family lives in Louisville, Ky.

ROBERT C, GAsTROCK is the public informa-
tion officer for the U. S. Department of the
Interior at the Alaska pipeline office in An-
chorage.

CAPT. JOHN W. RICE JR. received an M.A. in
nuclear engineering from the Air Force In-
stitute of Technology in December 1975.
He is presently assigned to the safety sec-
tion of the nuclear systems division of the
Air Force Weapons Laboratory at Kirkland
Air Force Base, N. M.

1969

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM J. McLeEop Jr. and
Ruth C. Callahan, on May 1, in St. Peters-
burg, Fla. McLeod is engaged in the private
practice of law with the firm of Baynard,
Lang & Ballard.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HASKELL L. DICKINSON
II, a son, Haskell Lee III, on May 29. The
family lives in Little Rock, Ark.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRUCE DOWNING, a
son, John Patrick, on April 19. Downing
recently graduated from the University of

27

 

JAMEs M. SLAy (See 1965.)

1972

MARRIAGE: Max F. BRANTLEY and Ellen
A. Bass, on April 24, 1976 in Little Rock,
Ark. Fred Fletcher, ’69, ’72L, was a member
of the wedding party. W&L alumni also at-
tending were Paul McClure, ’73, Jay Denny,
‘73, Ken Evans, 72, Charles Gregory, ’72 and
Mark Grobmyer, ‘72. The couple will live
in Little Rock where Brantley is a reporter
for the Arkansas Gazette and his wife is a
practicing attorney.

After graduating from the Dallas Theologi-
cal Seminary with a Th.M. degree, STEVEN
A. BREEDLOVE joined the staff of the Jack-
sonville Chapel in Lincoln Park, N.J., as an
assistant pastor.

H. CHRISTOPHER CLARK graduated cum laude
from Syracuse University College of Law.
He is now the law clerk to Judge Stewart
Hancock Jr., of the New York Supreme
Court, Onondaga County.

LT. ROBERT M. ForRRESTER is an _ instructor
pilot with the U. S. Air Force at Columbia
Air Force Base. He received his wings in
April 1975 and graduated with honors from
pilot instructor training at Randolph Air
Force Base in September 1975.

RANDOLPH HutTTo is enrolled at Emory Law
School where he received the West Horn-
book Award given for the highest academic
average of the first-year class.

GILBERT S. MEEM Jr. is an account executive
and stock option specialist with Reynolds
Securities, Inc., in Alexandria, Va.

W. P. Morrissette III graduated from the
University of Virginia School of Medicine
and began a residency at Riverside Hospital
in Newport News, Va., this summer.

CHARLES W. PRIDE is employed by the Sexton
Can Co. He has been transferred from
Decatur, Ala., to the company’s home office
in Everett, Mass.

FREDERICK SANDS graduated from Tulane
Medical School in June. While there he was
a member of AOA Honor Medical Society
and the Owl Club. He is a resident in inter-
nal medicine at the University of Virginia.

EVERETT Tucker III, formerly a staff ac-
countant with Dobbs, Albright and Co., join-
ed the Commercial National Bank of Little
Rock last March as manager of the agricul-
tural department. Tucker is a member of the

Three alumni who are leaders of

the Bicentennial celebration
participated last spring in the open-
ing of the Yorktown Victory Center.
They are Lewis McMurran, °36, chair-
man of the Virginia Independence
Bicentennial Commission; John W.
Warner, °49, administrator of the
American Revolution Bicentennial
Administration and a University Trustee,
and Parke S. Rouse, executive director
of the Virginia Independence Bicen-
tennial Commission.

Jaycees, the Arkansas Art Center and is
committee chairman of the Arkansas Heart
Fund Association.

MICHAEL L. UNTI is currently commander of
an air defense battery with the 10lIst Air-
borne Division at Ft. Campbell, Ky.

E. BRUCE WILSIE is an associate of W. Bolling
Izard, Inc., a Roanoke-based insurance and
bonding agency. Upon graduation from
Washington and Lee, Wilsie spent two years
in Europe and also received an M.B.A. from
Boston University.

1973

W. CHRISTOPHER BEELER JR. spent the sum-
mer in Boston working as a C.P.A. for Has-
kins and Sells. He is currently in his second
year at Harvard Business School.

W. Patrick HINELY has left Lexington. Fol-
lowing a six-month stint as record depart-
ment manager in the Co-op, the former Uni-
versity photographer has joined Silver Image
Photography in Sarasota, Fla. He specializes
in professional photography of all types and
is working on his Book of Palms, a continu-
ing attempt at finding the meaning of
human existence through the realities of
the photographic image.

PHiLip H. MILNER Jr. has recently been
transferred to Chicago by the J. P. Stevens
Co. After playing for three years with the
Old Blue Rugby Club in New York City,
he has joined the Chicago Lions Rugby
Football Club.

AVEN L. SHARP is now dealer relations man-
ager for Covington Diesel, Inc., in Greens-
boro, N. C.

ROBERT W. SHERWOOD is an assistant cashier
at the Hunterdon County National Bank
of Flemington, N. J. He received his M.B.A.
degree from Rider College in Trenton, N. i.

RONALD W. VAUGHT is beginning his third
year of study at the University of South
Carolina School of Law.

JoHN A. STEINHAUER (See 1969.)

1974

MARRIAGE: Ray Eric CorreEA and Kath-
leen Michelle Nowacki on Aug. 31, 1975 in
Pottstown, Pa. Alumni members of the
wedding party were Dean Alexis, ’73 and
Alan Fendrich, °75. Guests included Dee
Slaughter, °73, Mike Agee, ’72, Jim Rogers,
°73, Mike Houck, °73, Irv Wolfson, ’75 and
Brad Fretz, ‘77. Correa is currently working

 

towards an M.A. in French literature at New
York Univ. He is director of admissions,
language department chairman and French
teacher at the Franklin School in Manhattan.

MARRIAGE: FE. PHIFER HELMs and Polly
Ann Richardson, on June 26, 1976 in Spar-
tanburg, S. C. Among the groomsmen were
Rick McCain, °74, Lat W. Purser III, ’73
and Charles W. Pinnell, ’°74. Other W&L men
attending the wedding were Dennis Myers,
‘73, Marshall Washburn, ’73, Bob Brennan,
‘74 and Harold Howe, ’76. The couple lives
in Charleston, S. C., where both attend the
Medical University of South Carolina.

MARRIAGE: JOHN EpWARD LANE III and
Kathleen Starke Lane, on May 22, 1976 in
Bethesda, Md. Among the members of the
wedding party were Landon B. Lane Fists,
who served as best man for his brother,
John W. Luster, ’74, John S. Wallace, °74,
Jon Weigle, 74 and Bruce Gordin, ’74. Also
in attendance were Alan Fendrich, 7°75,
Michael Cimino, °74, John Zamoiski, ’74,
Stuart Ragland, °74, Scott Brown, ’74 and
Irv Wolfson, °75. The couple lives in Rich-
mond where Lane is a student at the T. C.
Williams School of Law.

MARRIAGE: JAMEs G. ROGERS and Barbara
May Baird, on Feb. 14, 1976 in Bryn Mawr,
Pa. Among the wedding party was William
R. Spofford III, ’74. The couple lives in
Haverford, Pa.

WILLIAM D. ADAMs IV lives in Charlottesville
where he is working as a mailman for the
University of Virginia.

Gary M. ArTHUuR, following a year of study
in Stockholm under the auspices of the Scan-
dinavian Seminar, has joined the firm of
Suna Bros., Inc., as assistant to the vice presi-
dent, Aron L. Suna, ’67, ’70L. Suna Bros. is
an importer of diamonds and precious stones
and a manufacturer of jewelry in New York
City.

David R. BEYER has been appointed business
manager for the Richmond Braves baseball
team. A native of Schenectady, N. Y., Beyer
received his undergraduate B. A. degree in
history from Syracuse University, his law de-
gree from Washington and Lee and a de-
gree in sports administration from the Uni-
versity of Massachusetts.

Ltr. JAMEs C. FERGUSON is a group legal of-
ficer at Ft. Sill, Okla. He prosecutes special
court-martial cases. He is married to the
former Cindy Biehn.

29

Class Notes

 

Washington and Lee men, forming what
can only be called a lacrosse dream team,
were instructors at the second annual Jack
Emmer Lacrosse Camp held on the campus
in July. The camp, supervised by W&L La-

crosse Coach Jack Emmer and _ Assistant
Coach Chuck O’Connell (center of circle),
is conducted for one week for youngsters
ages 10-17. Of the 160 boys who attended
the camp this summer, 15 were from the
Lexington-Buena Vista area.

The instructors (kneeling left to right)
are David Turk, "74; Ken Miller, 75; Skip
Lichtfuss, "74; Jim Farrar, ’74; and Brian
Chasney, ‘74; (standing left to right) Jamie
Andrew, ’66; Bob Brumback, ’73: John Lal-
ley, ‘74; Tom Keigler, 77; Rob Lindsey, ’76;
Jack Dudley, ’77; Ben Sherman, ’75; Ted
Bauer, ’74; Rob Morgan, 76; Dave Warfield,
‘75; and Chip Flanagan, ’75.

30

FRED W. FRICK is in his third year of medi-
cal school at Indiana University. His first year
was at Notre Dame. Under the sponsorship
of Indiana University, he traveled to Europe
during the summer of 1975.

A. J. ALExIs GELINAS is associated with the
New York City law firm of Brown, Wood,
Ivey, Mitchell & Petty. He expects to com-
plete work for an LL.M. in taxation from
New York University by May 1977. His
wife Ann is a student at the Columbia
University School of Social Work.

After receiving an LL.M. in taxation from
New York Univ. in June, DENNIs C. GIL-
CHRIST joined the Greenville, S.C., firm of
Leatherwood, Walker, Todd & Mann.

 

WALTER L. HANNAH Jr. is working in Char-
lotte, N. C., with the North Carolina Na-
tional Bank financial services. He holds
the position of commercial finance market-
ing representative and does considerable tra-
veling to present lending Opportunities to
commercial enterprises.

After two years as commercial underwriter
and field representative for Reliance Insur-
ance Companies, MATTHEW B. LAMOTTE
has joined Poor, Bowen, Bartlett and Ken-
nedy, Inc., an insurance agency in Balti-
more. He and his wife Kemper live in Ho-
ward County.

LEE R. REDMOND III became the assistant
headmaster for development at the Bolles
School in Jacksonville, Fla., in mid-July. He

was formerly with the Darlington School in
Rome, Ga.

WILLIAM F. RIENHOFF IV is working for
Baker, Watts & Company, an investment
firm in Baltimore, Md.

1975

MARRIAGE: MARK XAVIER DIVERIO and
Rosemary Green on May 22, 1976, in Roch-
elle Park, N. J. Among the guests were class-
mates Robert Speare, Michael Bracken,
Richard Barber, Chris Scully and Michael
Colpoys. The couple lives in Piscataway,
N. J., where Diverio is employed by the First
National Bank of New Jersey in their exe-
cutive management program. His wife is
working as an analytical chemist for Air Pro-
ducts and Chemicals.

MARRIAGE: B. Harrison TURNBULL and
Cindy Thomas on Dec. 20, 1975 in Nor-
folk. Among the wedding party were Rob
Turnbull, 72, Bob Keatley, 75, Tom Ramey,
"75, David Matthews, °75, Claiborne Irby,
‘77, Terry Atwood, ’77 and Steve McGeehee,
‘78. The couple lives in Charlotte, N. C.,
where Harrison is a credit analyst for North
Carolina National Bank.

MARRIAGE: RONALD W. GINDER and Mary
Jean Dolle on July 3, 1976, in Timonium,
Md. Ginder is a _ personnel management
specialist at the Naval Supply Center in
Norfolk, Va. The couple lives in Virginia
Beach.

BIRTH: MR. and Mrs, TERRENCE J. Mc-
GuIRE, a daughter, Kerri Lynn, on March 6,
1976 in Winter Park, Fla. McGuire is engag-
ed in the private practice of law there.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEFFREY L. WILLIS, a
son, James Todd, on Feb. 17, 1976. Willis is
a practicing attorney in Washington, D. C.

GREGG AMONETTE is employed by the Saun-
ders Coal Co. in Huntington, W. Va., where
he is an administrative assistant to the presi-
dent.

After a year filled with tubing trips down
the Maury River, BEN BAILEY is leaving his
post as scholarship coordinator at the Mar-
shall Research Library to attend law school
at Harvard University.

Davin RIGBY is pursuing a master’s degree
in actuarial science at Georgia State Uni-
versity in Atlanta. ‘This past summer he was
an intern with the actuarial consulting divi-
sion of Coopers and Lybrand in their Atlanta
office.

While in his first year at the University of
Maryland School of Law, SAMUEL R. LEwIs
became successful in his petitioning for the
Maryland Law Review.

JAMEs MICHAEL SHULL is practicing law with
the firm of Quillen & Carter in Gate City,

Va.
1976

MARRIAGE: Tuomas K. MCCLELLAN and
Patricia Prescott, on June 12, 1976 in Ashe-
ville, N. C. Thomas G. McClellan Jr., 48, was
his son’s best man. Also in attendance were
Richard P. Briggs II, 76, Brian W. Hutton,
‘78, Harry L. McCarthy II, ’76, W. David
Piner, ‘74 and Ralph F. Tellefsen, '76. The
couple will live in Winston-Salem where
he will attend Wake Forest Law School.

MARRIAGE: GROVER CLEVELAND MCGEHEE
and Catherine Page Strader, on June 19,
1976 in Lynchburg, Va. Members of the
wedding party included classmates Alan W.
Pettigrew, Paul L. Vavala, Joseph Walker
II and Robert F. Searles.

MARRIAGE: 'TERRENCE L. McCartTin and
Pamela Ann Hanington on June 26, 1976.
Among the wedding party were Douglas P.
Foster, °76, William T. Driscoll, ’76, and
Thomas O. O’Hara, °78. Lt. McCartin is in
the U. S. Army at the Aberdeen Proving
Grounds in Maryland. After an assignment
at the Redstone Arsenal in Alabama, he ex-
pects to be assigned, in March 1977, with
the 197th Ordnance Battalion in Siegelsbach,
Germany.

D. ScoTT FARRAR is employed in the group
division of the Pilot Life Insurance Co. in
Greensboro, N. C.

 

 

In Memoriam

 

 

1913

CLAUDE STANLEY MCINTURFF, a retired insur-
ance and lumber businessman, died in Roa-
noke, Va., on July 11, 1976. McInturff was
a native of Strasburg, Va. During World War
I he saw active duty in France with the 80th
Division of the U.S. Army. For a long while
he was associated with the Alleghany In-
surance Agency Inc., of Princeton, W.Va.

1918

CRALLE F. BLACKWELL, an attorney in. Ken-
bridge, Va., died Jan. 14, 1976 after a pro-
longed illness. He began the practice of law

in 1918 following World War I, in which
he served as an officer. He was active in the
political and business affairs of the South-
side Virginia area, having served as mayor
of Kenbridge from 1924 to 1938. He later
represented the counties of Lunenburg and
Mecklenburg in the General Assembly of
Virginia for 12 years. He was a director
and attorney for the Bank of Lunenburg and
was also a member of the Methodist Church,
American Legion, Virginia Bar Association
and many other civic and business organiza-

| 1920

DANIEL T. ORDEMAN, retired professor of
English at Oregon State University, died in
September, 1975. At the time of his death
he was living in Corvallis, Ore. Dr. Ordeman
had been a long-time teacher in high schools
in Maryland; was a professor at Woodberry
Forest School in Virginia and had been a
professor at the University of Maryland.

1925

H. Epwarp RIETZE JR., president of the Rietze
Co., a manufacturer’s representative firm,
died June 18, 1976. Rietze engaged primarily
in the sale of electrical equipment and in
motor controls. In 1968 he was named ‘“‘Am-
bassador of Goodwill” by the city of Louis-
ville, Ky. He was a former president of the
Louisville Rotary Club, a director of the
Salvation Army Boys’ Club and a director
of the Pendennis Club.

1928

JOHN Storey LITTLETON died April 18, 1976
at his home in Annapolis, Md. At the time of
his retirement in 1972, he was the director
of the income tax division of the U.S. Inter-
nal Revenue Service.

1929

ARCHIBALD HOWELL MCLEOD, a partner in the
firm of Keleher & McLeod in Albuquerque,
N.M., died June 14, 1976. From 1936 to 1940
he served as assistant district attorney, second
judicial district, N.M.

Dr. WILLIAM NELSON OFFUTT III, a_ well-
known ophthalmologist of Lexington, Ky.,
died July 8, 1976 while vacationing at Sea
Island, Ga. A native of Lexington, Ky., he
graduated from the University of Pennsy]l-
vania School of Medicine, served his intern-
ship at Emergency Hospital in Washington,
D.C., and did his ophthalmology residency
at Tulane University. He began his Lexing-
ton practice in 1936.

31

In Memoriam

 

1930

Harvey WARD SMITH, an owner and operator
of one of the largest fish enterprises on the
East Coast, died in Tampa, Fla., on Feb. 23,
1976. Soon after graduation from Washing-
ton and Lee Smith started in the men-
haden business operated by his family. He
later developed the J. Howard Smith Co.
which became one of the world’s largest pro-
ducers of fish meal and fish oil with plants
in New York, New Jersey, Delaware, North
Carolina, Florida, Mississippi, Louisiana and
Texas. His menhaden fleet grew to over 150
boats. His latest business endeavor was the
Sea Bird Fish and Oyster Co. of Beaufort,
S. C., which was established just two years
ago. Smith became a 33rd degree Mason and
a member of the Scottish Rite in 1959. He
was Grand Master of North Carolina in
1960 and was installed as Potentate of Sudan
Temple in New Bern, N. C., in 1965. He was
elected High Priest and Prophet of the
Shrine of North America. In two years he
would have become Imperial Potentate of
North Carolina.

193]

RoBERT J. THRIFT JR., a life-long resident
of Fayetteville, W.Va., and judge of the 12th
Judicial Circuit from 1944-52, died May
1, 1976. The Fayette County Bar Association
filed a resolution honoring Judge Thrift
which read that he was “commanded solely
by integrity of character and by intelligence
and skill in the honorable performance of
professional duty.” Thrift was admitted to
practice before the circuit court of Fayette
County in 1932.

(1933

CARL REINHOLD ANDERSON, a retired executive
with Westinghouse-Air Brake Company, died
May 16, 1976. He was a graduate of Upsala
College, a member of the American Legion
and a member of the Lutheran Church.

1945

DAvip DuRANT BURNELL of Ann Arbor, Mich.,
died June 25, 1976. During World War II
Burnell was a gunner with a tank destroyer
unit in the U. S. Army.

1972

CHARLES P. Comty died as a result of an
automobile accident on July 5, 1976. At the

time of his death he was associated with the

real estate firm of Andrews & Pinkstone Inc.,
of Wayne, Pa.

32

 

The Alumni Office does

Help us round up
these lost alumni

not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.

Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,
send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

Kinard D. Abbott, ’23
Gerald F. Abernethy, ’39
Jerry L. Abramson, "58
Ramon P. Acevedo, ’26
Gordon FE. Adams, ’27
Jesse C. Adams Jr., °32
Kerwin B. Adams, 41
Norman D. Adams, ’72
Rex Adams Jr., ’57L
Samuel J. Adams, ’23L
Melvin J. Adamson, ’27
Samuel M. Ahl, ’40

John H. Alcamo, ’26
Edwin P. Alexander, 30
Frederick R. Alexander, ’37
Hendricks C. Alford Jr., ’39
Michael B. Allderdice, ’70
Alfred G. Allen, ’38
Robert L. Allen, 62
Thomas D. Allen Jr., ’25
Tupper S. Allen, °33
Charles R. Alley, °26
William R. Alves, °26
John R. Ambrose, ‘61
Azel Ames, 67 >

John E. Amis, °45
Richard Ammerman, ’30L
Charles P. Anderson Jr., ’36
Richard B. Anderson, ’42
Peter J. Apisdorf, ’68
Stephen C. Apolito, 73
Alfred H. Archer, °35
John E. Arden, °35
David F. Arentz, ’51

Arthur W. Armstrong Jr., ’41

Burke P. Armstrong, ’58
Milton E. Ashburn, °74
Lawrence Ashcraft, ’25
Samuel D. Atkins Jr., °59
Blake Atwood, °49
Robert M. Avent Jr., 63
Raymond R. Averett, °73
Manfred N. Avrack, ’27
John W. Axton, "39
James M. Bailey Jr., 59
William M. Bailey, °62
Gervais Baillio, ’01

John E. Baird, ’24

Floyd J. Baker, ’23
Henry M. Baker, ’09
Herman J. Baker, ’56
Reid E. Baker, 54
Covert F. Baldwin, °53
Philip E. Bank, ’29
Joseph H. Banks, ’33
Lawrence C. Barber Jr., “71

William E. Barbour, ’27
Christoph H. Bargholtz, ’68
Ronald H. Barksdale, °57
William W. Barnes, ’34
Arthur L. Barrett, 753
Nathan M. Barrier, ’23
Charles H. Barten, *43
Donald L. Bartlett III, ’63
Paul V. Bartlett, ’02
William B. Barton, ’23
William J. Barton, "48
Sidney Bass, ’29
Alderman R. Bassett, ’39
Richard L. Battin, ’69
Harvey G. Beall, ’31
William L. Bearden, ’74
Kenneth I. Beattie, ’29
Albert J. Beauregard, ’05
Wiley I. Beavers, "45
Stuart A. Beckley, 55
Padric N. Behan, ’71
Hardway H. Bein, "34
Keith R. Belch Jr., °56
Robert K. Bell, 69
Edward I. Bennett, 76
Frank R. Benton Jr., ’72
Ulric C. Berard, ’68
Harry E. Berger, ‘36
Joseph H. Berrien, 35
James N. Berry, "58
Preben G. Berthelsen, ’67
Hugh R. Best, ’41

Alfred L. Bettis, ’26
John F. Betts, 60
Alonzo N. Beville, °29
Charles J. Biddle, °32
Walter R. Biebelle, 713
George F. Biehl Jr., ’68
Huntley H. Biggs, ’61
David F. Birch, ’26
Ralph S. Bird Jr., ’41
Ora E. Birkhead, ’09
Marcus R. Bishop, °32
Joseph D. Bissell, °53
Robert W. Black, °47
Walter S. Blake, ’72
Charles W. Blandford, ’26
Robert J. Blanding, 41
Howard L. Blau, ’63
Andrew J. Bloom, ’68
Roger E. Blum, ’26
Frank A. Blyth, ’49

John D. Boardman Jr., ’71
Allen Z. Bogert Jr., 70

William E. Boggiano Jr., ’56

Bernard M. Bogue, 42

Richard R. Boileau, 42
Ralph H. Bookmyer Jr., "45
Morris T. Booth, ’31L
Hugh J. Boulter, ‘62
William B. Bourne, *49
Joseph D. Bowdoin, 70
David E. Bowles, ’66
William B. F. Bowman, 7°52
James M. Boyd, °26
William B. Boyd, 65
Henry L. Braddock, ’60
Richard B. Bradley, ’25
Ralph L. Bragg, ‘16L
Anthony L. Brennan, ‘61
George W. Brent, 713
Richard M. Brickman, °58
Albert D. Bright, ’28
Herbert I. Britton, ’02
James H. Britton, °29
William A. Broadbent, 62
Charles L. Brooks, ’31
Randolph L. Brooks, 63
Alanson C. Brown, 735
Gaston Z. Brown Jr., ’59
Henry M. Brown Jr., ’26
James B. Brown, ’27
Joseph L. Brown, 757
Larry F. Brown, ’72
Norris Y. Brown, ’29
Robert S. Brown Jr., ’67
Welbourn M. Brown, ’27
G. Anderson Browne, ’35
Victor A. Browning, °36
John S. Brush Jr., °57
Charles C. Bryan, ’67L
Fred J. Bryant, ’24
Homer S. Bryant, ’20
Richmond Bryant, ‘11
Philip J. Bucher, ’23
Merwin E. Buchwald, ’39
Bruce H. Builder, ’67

‘Theophilus R. Bullock, ’27

Leigh D. Bulluck Jr., ’27
Abe Burchard Jr., ’27
Jon W. Burger, ‘61
Frank A. Burget, ’63L
Wendell E. Burns, 52
Henry E. Burr, ’61
John P. Burrows, "33
Harry C. Burton, ‘08L
Paul D. Buskey, *70
William F. Butler, ’68
Belden Butterfield, 57
John L. Buzby, ’06
Julian M. Byrd, ’30
Charles S. Caffery, ’02

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

For members and their immediate families presents Charter trips continue to be an exceptional

: - value despite increased fuel costs and currency
: C ir fl Dp Dulles De partures fluctuation. Take advantage of current

prices. Make your reservation NOW !

 

Round trip jet transportation to Rio. Meals

and beverages served aloft ** evening departure

Deluxe accommodations for seven nights at the
DELUXE new Inter-Continental Rio Hotel

Welcome Caipirinha Cocktail Party

February 4-12, 1977 Brazilian breakfast daily

Dinner five evenings-Dine-Around Plan at Rio's
$ + (+ 15% Tax & Service)
9g Per person-Double occupancy

Tour to a world-famous gem factory
Complimentary chaise lounges

Exciting low cost optional tours available
U.S.Departure Tax ($3.00) included

All gratuities for bellboys and doormen

All round trip transfers and luggage handling
from airport to hotel

Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality
Desk,staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site team
of professionals

finest restaurants. Two evenings on your own
Single Supplement - $100.00

t Rio Departure Tax of approx. $3.50 not included.

**Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge.
Approximately $7.00 Dinner Allowance (Dine-Around Restaurant Plan).

 

 

e Round trip jet to London (meals and beverages
served aloft) ** Evening Departure
Beautiful accommodations at the new
WESTMORELAND HOTEL
Continental breakfast daily
Half-day trip to Windsor Castle

May 15-23, 1977 City orientation tour (including Parliament, Piccadilly,

Westminster Abbey, Changing of the Guard, and more)
U.S. departure tax ($3.00) included
$ 349' (+ 15% Tax & Service)
Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $100.00

Exciting low cost optional tours available

All gratuities for chambermaids, bellboys and doormen
All round trip transfers and luggage handling from
airport to hotel

Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality

** Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge. Desk, staffed by Arthurs Travel’s on-site team

of professionals

 

t London Arrival Tax of approx. $2.59 not included.

For additional information on Rio or London return this coupon to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia 24450

NAME ADDRESS PHONE

 

 

 

 

YOU ARE NOW A REPORTER FOR W&L. Please send us news of yourself so that we
can pass it on through the magazine to your W&L friends. AND REMEMBER, DON’T
Tell US / MAKE A MOVE WITHOUT LETTING US KNOW. Every address change provided by
* the Post Office now costs 25 cents each. We could go broke at that rate. So please send
your correct address and news to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

Name Class
Address
City State Zip

 

News Item

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY |

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

 

 

No library is complete without...

The 1975 Alumni Directory

‘The Indispensable Reference Book
For Every Washington and Lee Alumnus

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni Direc-
tory, 1749-1975, is now available at only $5.00 a copy,
including postage. The unique feature that distinguishes
this directory from past editions is that the 1975 issue
was produced by a computerized method.

The directory has three sections:

Alphabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since
1749 is listed alphabetically, together with his class, his
degree, his address, and his occupation.

Class List—A full list of the members of each class, in-
cluding degree holders and non-graduates, appears in
this section.

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by
cities within these states as well as in foreign countries.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be with-
out this valuable reference book in his home or office.
Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send me............... copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, including postage. Check
is enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

Alumni Directory
1749-1975

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
Published by
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI INCORPORATED

1976

 

 

 

ALLEN—ETHAN 31 LLB (1925-31X) WILLKIE FARR
& GALLAGHER 277 PARK AVE NEW YORK NY 10
017 LAWYER,PARTNER WILLKIE,FARR,GAL-
LAGHER q

ALLEN—EUGENE K * 31 (1927-28)

ALLEN—FREDERICK M 43 BA (1939-43) MA GEN-
ERAL DELIVERY TAOS NM 87571

ALLEN—G WILLIAM JR 69 BA (1965-69) 30 MAN-
OR DRIVE HUDSON OH 44236 LAW STUDENT
OHIO NORTHERN

ALLEN—G ASHLEY 65 BS (1961-65) PHD 130
BURNETT DR SPARTANBURG SC 29302 DIR OF
DEV DEERING MILLIKEN RES CORP q

Sample
Alphabetical
List

Entry

 

 

