 

 

 

Ml

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 53, Number 8, November 1978

William C. Washburn, 40 ..................04. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 .................. Associate Editor
Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, ’77 ............... Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ............. 00. .00008, Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann .............. cee eee ee eee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Phase II Announcement ..............:::ccccccccseeesseteees l
~Remarks at R. E. Lee Associates Dinner ............ 3
Huntley in Defense of the Liberal Arts .............. 11
Conversation with Senior Professors ............0.+++. 16
Three New Trustees .............:::ccccccseesereceeeesneeeees 22
W&cL Gazette ..... eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 23
Homecoming and Reunions ...............cceceeseeeeeees 25
Edward F. Turner Jr., 1920-1978 ...........eeeeeeee 26
Betty Munger: A Profile 20.0.0... eee seeeeeeeseeeeeeeees 27
Fall Sports Roundup .......... ce eeseeeeesereeeeeeeeeeeneeees 29
Mike Wenke: Dynamo ..............ssceeeseceeeseeeeeeeeeees 32
Chapter NeWS o........eeeeeececeessneeeeeseeeeeeeeeseeeeeesnees 33
LO) ESS (0) oe 36
In Memoriam ...............ceeeeeeeesseencceeeeeeeeessnaceeeeeees 40

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EDWIN J. FoLtz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
Vice President

RICHARD A. DENny, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. Donan Barn, ’49, Spartanburg, S. C.
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, ’58, Richmond, Va.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, ’51, Nashville, Tenn.
JOHN H. McCormack Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

ON THE COVER: The Roman numeral II is em-
blematic of the University’s announcement of Phase
II of its comprehensive development program,
which took place at the 11th annual Robert E. Lee
Associates dinner in New York City on October 27;
the University crest on the back of an alumni chair
symbolizes the institution the program is designed
to support. Coverage of the event is on pages |
through 15. Photographs by Sally Mann.

 

 

 

 

PHASE II = $26 MILLION

Increased Endowment, Library, Commerce School, Annual Giving Included

Washington and Lee University has begun a $26-million
second-phase development plan which will conclude its
comprehensive $62-million program begun in 1972.

Principal objectives of the second-phase plan are a 50
percent increase in the University’s current endowment;
completion of major physical improvements—primarily the
new undergraduate library now under construction and a
completely renovated home for the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics; and an increase in the level of un-
restricted annual contributions to more than $1 million a
year.

The $36-million initial phase of the decade-long W&L
development program was successfully completed in 1976.
The second phase is to be completed by the end of 1981.

The University has already received more than $6.4 mil-
lion toward the $26-million 1981 goal, President Robert E.
R. Huntley said. That figure includes commitments from
each of the 22 members of the Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees in both the annual giving and capital grant cate-
gories.

The program calls for increasing Washington and Lee’s
general endowment and its designated student-aid endow-
ment by a total of $12.5 million. General endowment income
is used primarily for faculty salaries and student services.
The student-aid endowment helps provide needed financial
assistance for approximately 23 percent of the W&L student
body.

The new program also requires $4.63 million in accumu-
lated annual giving by 1981—unrestricted, recurring con-
tributions toward operating costs from alumni, parents, the
business community, and other friends.

Washington and Lee depends on annual giving for ap-
proximately 12 percent of its educational and general
operating budget. This year, the University’s educational
and general budget exceeds $8.9 million, and annual giving
must account for $1.1 million of that total.

The $8.87-million capital portion of the second-phase
development effort calls for completion of funding for the
$9.2-million new undergraduate library; $3 million to sup-
port complete remodeling of McCormick Library for the
School of Commerce, Economics and Politics; and funds for
extensive improvements to utility services and campus
grounds.

Since the Phase II development goals were formulated,
funding for the new library has been completed. The Uni-
versity will move into the 130,000-square-foot facility, which
will be the largest academic building at Washington and
Lee, in January.

After extensive remodeling and renovation, McCormick
will be ideally suited for the commerce division--now severely
overcrowded in Newcomb Hall. That building has become
so inadequate even for existing needs that important cur-
ricular changes as well as physical improvements and mod-

ifications have been postponed because of the lack of space
and because of the building’s incapacity to accept new tech-
nology.

The new commerce building will have more than four
times as much space as Newcomb.

When the commerce school moves, Newcomb will in turn
be remodeled to accommodate other undergraduate de-
partments which are similarly overcrowded.

The second-phase development program represents a
financial modification of Washington and Lee’s
“comprehensive development program for the decade of
the 1970s,” announced early in 1972.

The objectives of the updated second phase are identical
to those identified on George Washington’s birthday 6%
years ago, but the dollar figures necessary to achieve them
have been revised as a consequence of “facts of economic life

with which no one is unfamiliar,” President Huntley said—

rampant inflation, which has meant that 1972 cost projec-
tions are now obsolete, and the erratic performance of the

_ stock market with its severely negative effect upon the value

of W&L’s endowment and the resulting real-dollar decline
in income from endowment investments.

In its 1972 announcement, Washington and Lee had said
it would be necessary to raise $56 million over the course of
the two-part program—$36 million by the end of 1976, and
$20 million additionally in the four subsequent years.

By the midpoint target date of Dec. 31, 1976, the
University had exceeded its $36-million first-phase goal by
almost $1.5 million.

 

PHASE II OBJECTIVES

INCREASED ENDOWMENTS
(Professorships; General Faculty Salaries;
Teaching Funds; Student Financial Aid;

General Student Services) $12,500,000
PHYSICAL FACILITIES
Library $2,100,000
Commerce School
(Renovation of McCormick) 3,000,000
Renovation of Tucker,
Newcomb 1,500,000
Campus Improvements,
Utilities 670,000
7,270,000
ANNUAL GIVING 4,630,000
CAPITAL CHARGES
(Bond Amortization; Capital
Fundraising Costs) 1,600,000
Total $26,000,000

 

 

 

 

“Clearly, if Washington and Lee is to remain capable of providing the excellence of education
for which we are justifiably noted, our development objectives are—bluntly put—crucial.
Unless we meet them, we will be unable to continue to be superior; and unless we can continue to
be superior, we ought not to continue at all.” —President Huntley.

 

Trustee S L Kopald, Phase II coordinator

Because the first phase of the program was largely con-
cerned with construction—primarily the new law building
Lewis Hall; the new gymnasium; new student apartments;
and the beginning of the new library—the 1972 cost projec-
tions had been adversely affected by greater-than-expected
inflation in the construction industry, which approached a
12 percent annual rate by the end of the first portion of the
program.

W&L raised $3.1 million more for construction than the
1972 projections had indicated would be required, but there
was nevertheless a shortfall. That gap was incorporated into
the Phase IT objectives but has been covered by gifts re-
ceived since the conclusion of the first phase.

The objective the University had announced in 1972 for
additions to endowment, $14 million, fell short by $4 million.
‘That endowment gap was also incorporated into determin-
ing the Phase II goals.

At the close of the 1977-78 fiscal year last June 30, Wash-
ington and Lee’s endowment was valued at $23,503,530.
That represents an endowment average of $13,492 per stu-
dent.

The additional endowment required under the second
phase of the development program will bring the value of
the endowment to $36 million.

“It is a fact that the quality of the education which Wash-
ington and Lee, as a private institution, is able to provide
depends absolutely on the strength of its endowment,” said
the Rector of the W&L Board, E. Marshall Nuckols Jr.

Until the development program of the 1970s began,
Washington and Lee had constructed only two new academic
buildings since before World War I—duPont Hall (1954),
primarily for the fine arts, and Parmly Hall (1958), for

 

physics and biology. Its old law building, Tucker Hall, was
burned in 1934 but was simply replaced. Most campus
buildings were renovated or remodeled over the years, but
none were enlarged other than the library, built in 1906 and
remodeled in 1941.

The renovation of McCormick to become the new com-
merce facility is the last major physical project in the decade-
long comprehensive development plan. Work is scheduled
to begin next year, and the University expects to move into
the remodeled facility in 1981.

Mr. Nuckols said the Board itself will have principal re-
sponsibility for the Phase II development effort. Coordi-
nating the program will be S L Kopald, chairman of the
Board’s Development Committee and president of Humko
Sheffield Chemical Co. of Memphis. He is a 1943 W&L
graduate.

Working with Kopald, the Trustees’ Development Com-
mittee, and the rest of the Board will be a volunteer “Devel-
opment Council,” Mr. Nuckols said. Currently, the Devel-
opment Council consists of 14 alumni throughout the
country.

Following the successful completion of the first phase of
the comprehensive program almost two years ago, the Board
—working closely with faculty, alumni and students as well
as with the University administration—spent a great deal of
time re-evaluating the original objectives set for Phase II,
President Huntley said. The conclusion was that each goal
identified six years ago remains essential.

The Board then engaged in extensive financial planning
for achieving those objectives and sought assurances of
agreement and support “of sufficient magnitude to convince
us to go ahead,” the President said.

“Our achievements so far give us the confidence we need-
ed—the confidence we knew we could expect from our
alumni and other supporters who recognize the merit of
Washington and Lee,” he said. “It is the confidence that we
can indeed succeed, as we must; the confidence that we shall
succeed.

“Clearly, if Washington and Lee is to remain capable of
providing the excellence of education for which we are justi-
fiably noted,” Huntley said, “our development objectives
are—bluntly put—crucial. Unless we meet them, we will be
unable to continue to be superior; and unless we can continue
to be superior, we ought not to continue at all.”

In addition to the almost $37.5 million raised against the
1976 interim goal of $36 million, Washington and Lee re-
ceived a restricted bequest of approximately $12 million
from the estate of the late John Lee Pratt of Fredericksburg
in January 1976.

The effect of the Pratt bequest was not to achieve any of
the development objectives identified in 1972, however, but
rather to diminish the impact of general inflation and stock-
market erosion which—without the Pratt fund to replace
the money and purchasing power lost to those two economic
circumstances—would have had an extremely negative im-
pact on Washington and Lee’s financial position and its
ability to pay competitive salaries and award essential stu-
dent financial aid, President Huntley said.

 

 

 

 

WHY PHASE II

W&L Today as Viewed by Faculty, Students, Parents, Friends, and ‘Trustees

Remarks delivered at the annual banquet of the Robert E. Lee
Associates on October 27 in New York City; at that time the Phase II
objectives of the University’s development program were announced.

Mr. E. Marshall Nuckols, Jr.,
Rector of the Board of Trustees

This is only the third occasion when we have met away
from the W&L campus in Lexington. You may recall that we
met at Mount Vernon in 1974, and in 1976 we met in
Philadelphia for our nation’s Bicentennial. I am sure it is no
surprise to any of you that our purpose tonight is to
announce Phase II of our all-important Development
Program.

We are particularly pleased to have with us this evening a
number of guests who have no direct connection with
Washington and Lee. To all of you, we extend a very special
welcome. We are very happy to have this opportunity for
you to learn something about Washington and Lee.

Our Lee Associates are of singular importance to the
University. In the eleven years this organization has been in
existence, Lee Associates have contributed more than one-
half of the total amount raised through our annual giving
programs. And that is despite the fact that in numbers, we
represent only about six percentjof the total givers. Everett
Tucker of Little Rock, Arkansas, who has been chairman of
the Lee Associates for this past year, has done an
outstanding job—and I am happy to report that he has
consented to serve in that capacity for another year.

I would also at this time like to recognize and note our
thanks to Dr. John T. Fey, an alumnus of Washington and
Lee’s class of 1939, who was chairman of the dinner
committee tonight. Jack, you have done a great job and we
thank you very much.

Mr. Nuckols

I should like now to call on two members of the
Washington and Lee family—one a faculty member, the
other a student. Each will share with you a personal
perspective of what Washington and Lee is today and its
direction of the future. May I introduce Dr. William A.
Jenks, also a Washington and Lee alumnus in the class of
1939, who is our William R. Kenan Professor of History and
head of the history department.

Dr. Jenks

A recent article in Time magazine gives a grisly picture of the
plight of the liberal arts in an era of economic
disequilibrium. There is, as well, a recent satire of a language
professor who in effect promises A’s to anyone who will sign
up for his course. No one in this room does not know of the
oversupply of doctors of philosophy who desperately want
positions in colleges or universities. Worse, there is no
guarantee of academic tenure in many institutions if the

 

 

Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr. with Rector Emeritus John Newton Thomas,
who gave the invocation at the Robert E. Lee Associates banquet.

person on tenure fails to attract a sufficient number of
students. It is said that the full professor who once stumbled
through his aging notes now mends his ways in order to
survive.

At Washington and Lee, we are not unacquainted with
such trends, but past and present administrative policies and
what I see as a blend of sensitivity and habit among members
of the faculty have blunted the worst of what David Riesman
calls “the war of all, against all, for student body count.” The
administration considers, reconsiders, and checks the budget
yet a third time before it approves an addition to any
department. As a member of the president’s Advisory
Committee, I have sensed an unspoken dialogue between the
president and his deans as they evaluate the ebb and flow of
student shifts in interest. At no time, however, have I felt
that a legitimate claim for help has gone unheeded or that a
discipline which deserves a place in a respectable curriculum
will be scrapped.

The faculty, insofar as I can tell, responds maturely to an
ever-changing situation. As has always been true, the
professor of administration urges his advisees to venture into
philosophy, fine arts and history. The historian insists to his
majors that no person should graduate without economics
and that the prospective student of law should not ignore
accounting. The undisguised hostility that existed between

3

WHY PHASE II

some in commerce and some in liberal arts twenty-five years
ago has virtually disappeared, I believe. That does not mean
that certain curricular pressures from graduate schools have
by any means diminished, as President Huntley will have
reason to note. We are uncommonly healthy, however, in the
balance which we continue to offer.

A few examples will suffice to indicate that there have
been substantial changes in students’ orientation, though I
do not think they change our image as a school basically
attuned to the liberal arts which also offers pre-professional
training. In 1972-73 the departments or programs which
attracted the largest number of majors were, in order,
history, sociology, politics, journalism and English (tied), the
interdepartmental major in natural science and mathematics,
and economics and the B.S. in commerce (the last two tied).
In 1977-78 the ranking departments or programs in terms of
majors were the B.S. in commerce, history, politics,
economics, biology, English, and journalism. In the six years
under review these departments showed no striking
variations: chemistry, drama, geology, German, mathematics,
physics, psychology, religion, and Spanish. If we must use a
body count, the following departments, in order, had 600 or
more registrations last year: history, English, economics,
administration, mathematics, politics, sociology with
anthropology, and psychology.

A professor by nature either complains of the number of
papers and advisees he has, or voices his own conviction that
he and his field are unappreciated. That phenomenon will
never vanish from Washington and Lee or from any other
school. It does, however, seem to me that we have a
minimum of this on our campus, largely because each of us
has a chance to make his mark in classroom, seminar, or
laboratory, aided by an administration that maximizes our
opportunities for research.

‘These considerations go far to explain why the dedicated
teacher of undergraduates can coexist with the scholar who
loves his archives, his rats, or his computer. Quite often the
impulses which impel us to revamp a lecture and to analyze a
new batch of documents can spin about in one individual
psyche. Two young colleagues, one in history, the other in
physics, worked all summer to prepare a program which
would explain and demonstrate the late-18th century’s
obsession with natural philosophy, that attempt to correlate
the blessings of surer scientific knowledge with the
promptings of a higher morality. In late August I teasingly
asked the historian if he regretted returning to classes. His
answer was instantaneous. He would like a few more days
for his project, but what he disliked most of all about
summer was the lack of a summer school. He would gladly
teach the year around.

I am glad he cannot do so, for I want him to revise and
publish his dissertation, which concerns a lively 18th-century
gentleman who mixed politics with the rediscovery of
Palmyra. His older colleagues have added needed skills to

4

 

their performances in the classroom by taking advantage of
fellowships and endowments which encourage us to take
time off for research and for consultations with specialists
here and abroad. We owe much to the Fulbright program, to
the National Science Foundation, to the National
Endowment for the Humanities, to the American Council of
Learned Societies, to the Andrew W. Wellon F oundation,
and I do not exhaust the list. Washington and Lee has very
liberal provisions for sabbaticals, and the Glenn grants most
of the time can subsidize projects in the summer and the
underwriting of publication. Mr. Pratt’s extraordinary gift
helps provide a solid foundation for faculty salaries and
undergraduate scholarships, without which research and
writing would be far more difficult. In a given year a
biologist will be introducing the fauna of the Galapagos to
some lucky students, a political scientist will be explaining
American folkways to Austrians, a psychologist will continue
his investigation of the hippocampus, and a poet will
complete his study of Nabokov. Geologists take turns in
ferreting out the secrets of the Pacific crust or in relating the
mountain system of Scotland to our Appalachians. Nearer
home, an historian of art continues her evaluation of
Virginia’s architecture while representatives of a number of
departments labor to exploit the promise of the computer.

The great universities do all of this and more. In the past
they and the government have lured from us teacher-
scholars whom we should have liked to keep. There is no
guarantee they will not raid us again. My own experience, in
considering feelers and offers from graduate schools, may be
an illustration of the counter-attraction which Washington
and Lee exerts. At no other university could I discern a more
generous policy of subsidization of research or a substantial
reduction in teaching load. At some of these universities I
know I would have faced less interesting students.

This year, in preparing a monograph for publication, I
worried as to whom I should dedicate it. “To my students”
would be meaningless, and I had already made the necessary
bows to family. The history department has been fortunate
in helping prepare men for graduate study and for
worthwhile careers as historians. I solved the dilemma, I
thought, by selecting seven dedicatees who are known
internationally for their books and/or articles. Four have won
Guggenheims. Three have been or are heads of history
departments at Columbia, Michigan, and Yale. At any rate,
with my conscience somewhat appeased, I went to London in
June to look at dispatches at the Public Record Office in Kew
Gardens. There in the underground one day my name rang
out. A fine alumnus, member of the humanities complex at
Michigan State, first shook my hand heartily and next told
me that his magnum opus would be published in England in
a few months. I shall only be able to write him an apology,
for my book with dedication was in press before I departed.

I have been trying to answer the question put to me by
President Huntley when he asked me to speak to you,

 

Dr. William A. Jenks reviewed Washington and Lee from the point of view of
a faculty member.

Dr. John T. Fey (right) chairman of the dinner committee, talks with a friend
during the pre-banquet reception.

 

Trustee Thomas C. Frost Jr. in conversation with Everett Tucker Jr.,
chairman of the Robert E. Lee Associates.

 

namely: What is affirmative at Washington and Lee toa
person whose primary bent is scholarly or who knows that he
cannot be totally satisfied with the University’s justified
dictum that it wants good teaching, should there be conflict
between research and the classroom?

First, there need not be conflict. Second, the presence of
older scholars on the staff and the respect our alumni have
won should assure our junior teachers a fair hearing for
their proposals with the large foundations. Third, the gifts of
corporations, of family endowments, and of individuals
should assure the school, we hope, adequate funding as
inflation continues its frightening way.

Since World War II, tidal waves of dollars have descended
upon the American educational system. Much has been
wasted, and Senator Proxmire now has an audience on the
right as well as on the left. At Washington and Lee we have
developed a sensible and balanced approach that cannot fail
to attract teacher-scholars in the future. I can only hope that
my comments will underline the University’s present
commitment and its confidence that it will have friends to
continue the good work.

Mr. Nuckols

May I now introduce to you Waller T. Dudley, who is
president of our student body. Beau Dudley is an
undergraduate alumnus in the class of 1974 and is currently
a third-year law student. His father, an alumnus before him,
is a member of the Board of Trustees of Washington and
Lee.

Mr. Dudley

When I was introduced to the Board of Trustees at its
spring meeting last year, I said that the two things I was most
looking forward to in connection with my job as incoming
student body president were meeting with the Board of
Trustees and “spreading the gospel,” if you will, of
Washington and Lee, both to those who have shown an
affection for her and to those whom Washington and Lee
wishes to bring within her family. It probably goes without
saying, then, that I’m excited and very pleased to be in New
York this weekend and have the opportunity to do both of
those things.

By way of further introduction, if not importance, I’ve
had the pleasure of spending seven years in Lexington,
almost; I somehow overcame my failure to work as hard as I
should have while an undergraduate at W&L and am now
currently in my third year, my final year, of law school. In an
unguarded moment last spring the student body accorded
me the honor of serving as its president this year.

At any rate, I’m excited about the things I’ve seen about
Washington and Lee both from my perspective as an almost-
seven-year student and in my brand-new perspective as
student-body president. I’d like to share with you just a few

5

WHY PHASE II

of my thoughts about the things that Washington and Lee
students can do at W&L and, in turn, things Washington and
Lee does for her students. I’d like to focus, if I might, on one
aspect of our school—the unusually high degree of direct
student involvement which characterizes our student body
both in our own affairs and the affairs of the University.
We’re extremely fortunate, in my opinion, to have an
administration, and in addition a system, which recognizes
the tremendous benefits one can get from this approach.

Our small size allows us to take perhaps even greater
advantage of those same benefits.

Like Professor Jenks, I will mention a few specific
examples. Several years ago, the faculty voted to turn the
administration and the governance of fraternities on campus
over to an entirely student-member Interfraternity Council,
and although from time to time we hear remarks about our
resemblance to a recent movie of national fame [laughter], it
pleases me no end that the fraternities on campus are to this
day entirely governed by an all-student organization.

Student government at Washington and Lee is just
that—students governing students, students working on
behalf of students. Subcommittees of the Student Executive
Committee provide entertainment, films, speakers,
publications and, in fact, just about everything that goes on
at Washington and Lee for the benefit of students. Another
committee handles every case of student misconduct, while
another provides financial assurance to local merchants so
that, as Washington and Lee students, we can enjoy virtually
unlimited check-cashing privileges in Lexington and
Rockbridge County. |

None of those things may strike you as particularly
exciting or different or surprising these days; it may,
however, interest you to know that this year’s Executive
Committee, comprising twelve students, had direct control
over, and in fact appropriated, more than $75,000 in student
body funds. This is done every year without so much as a
word from the administration or faculty as to which group
ought to get which amount of money and so forth. And I can
assure you that for at least one student involved in that
process, it was a very maturing experience—to deal with that
kind of money belonging to your fellow students. In my
opinion, that system also lends itself to a high degree of
accountability on the part of those who hold positions in
student government.

It’s important also to note, I think, that students are
appointed to standing faculty committees which deal with
every important issue facing Washington and Lee at this
time—from athletics to courses and degrees; from student
health to freshman admissions.

And last—and most important to a good many of us,
myself included—our long- and (I’m proud to say) still-
cherished Honor System is administered and enforced
entirely by student representatives. Nothing has pleased me
more since taking office some eight or ten weeks ago than

6

 

 

 

Waller T. Dudley, president of the student body, who discussed WESL from the
standpoint of his fellow students.

 

Ss

Trustee J. Alvin Philpott talks with Miss Ruth Parmly, who made a generous
gift to WSL several years ago in memory of her father.

 

The banquet setting in New York City’s University Club.

 

the degree of commitment and good judgment shown by the
students with whom I’m lucky enough to serve in that
Capacity.

If what I’ve said so far sounds a little bit as if it comes
from one who has been told to say “the right things,” I want
to assure you that nothing could be further from the truth.
Washington and Lee has her fair share of problems—some
serious, Some not so serious; some short term and some quite
long term. The meetings this weekend [of committees of the
Board of Trustees and of the full Board] are designed to
work toward reasonable solutions to those problems. We
don’t live in Utopia in Lexington—in spite of our tendency
sometimes to think we do. I have spoken from what is for me,
and what is for most students, an honest conviction that we
are very fortunate to be part of a special, a unique,
University that is rewarding in many, many ways, only
several of which time has permitted me to mention this
evening.

In closing, let me say that last spring I had the great
pleasure of meeting and touring the campus with Miss Ruth
Parmly, whose gift to Washington and Lee in memory of her
late father came notwithstanding the fact that she’s had
virtually no connection, nor had her family, with Washington
and Lee in the past. I was immediately struck by this, and
recognized once again then, as I'do from time to time,
although not as often as I should, the significance of the
spirit behind such gifts as hers and their importance to
private institutions like Washington and Lee. I go to law
classes every day in a facility which is commonly regarded to
be the finest of its kind anywhere, and I’m keenly aware of
the fact that had it not been for the almost-unbelievable
generosity of two individuals, that facility would be little
more than a dream at Washington and Lee today.

I want to assure you that my fellow students share that
awareness; they are deeply appreciative of those whose
generosity has done so many things for us. And in addition,
and perhaps even more importantly, they share exceedingly
high hopes for participating in and helping mold
Washington and Lee’s future.

On behalf of the student body, I want to issue you a warm
greeting and a very sincere word of thanks—thanks first of
all for bearing with a rather nervous young man this
evening, and, far more importantly, for your continuing
devotion to and support of Washington and Lee.

Mr. Nuckols

With a faculty and student body like Bill Jenks and Beau
Dudley, it’s not difficult to understand why the entire
University family, collectively and individually, is
tremendously excited about Washington and Lee’s present
and its potential for the future. And it’s quite obvious that
the trustees and the alumni have a tremendous responsibility
to make sure that that potential is realized so that the Bill
Jenkses and Beau Dudleys of the next generation will have

 

the same, or even greater, reason to be enthusiastic about
their University.

The trustees, recognizing that in the early 1970s,
formulated a development program calling for the raising of
$56,000,000 during the ’70s, $36 million of it to be raised by
1976. That was a very ambitious undertaking for a small
university that in all of its 220-plus years had not raised
funds even approaching that sum.

You are all familiar with our accomplishments to date, and
I won't belabor those tonight; by the end of 1976 we had
raised $37.5 million [applause], and, as all of you know, we
have on the campus today many fine new facilities that were
not there just a few years ago.

Since the conclusion of Phase I at the end of 1976, our
development program continued unabated, as I’m sure
many of you individually know. The trustees have given very
extensive thought to a reassessment of the goals for the
remaining part of the program.

It’s quite clear that the physical goals remain substantially
unchanged, and we shall, during Phase II, complete those as
we originally planned. But with the inflation that has been
our continuing lot during the 1970s, the price tag on those
goals has grown tremendously, and it has been necessary for
us to raise our sights for the second part of our development
program.

Accordingly, it is my pleasure to announce here tonight
that the goal, or the target, for Phase II will be $26,000,000,
which we hope to accomplish by the end of 1981. We not
only hope to accomplish it, we will accomplish it.

That’s only $6 million more than we had originally
targeted for Phase II. We have been able to hold the increase
within those modest limits only because of the very
handsome gift we received in 1976, more than $12 million,
from the estate of John Lee Pratt, which Bill Jenks
mentioned just a moment ago.

Almost half of this $26,000,000 will be used to enlarge our
endowment, which is woefully small for an institution of the
size and caliber of Washington and Lee. That has to be one
of the most imperative tasks ahead of us; there is no way we
can maintain our position of excellence unless we bring our
endowment up to reasonable levels. Most comparable schools
will have an endowment-per-student ratio two, three, four or
even more times larger than ours. So this is absolutely
essential, and there is no way we can meet the continuing
inflation in our operating costs unless we do get our
endowment up to a more substantial level than it is today.

About seven-and-a-quarter million dollars of that total of
$26,000,000 will be used to complete the funding of our new
library, which will be occupied this winter; it will be used to
remodel old McCormick Library to serve as a new home for
the School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics; it will be
used to renovate Newcomb and Tucker Halls. When those
are complete, our campus will be in truly A-1, top-notch
condition.

WHY PHASE II

And with that increase in endowment which we will
achieve, we will be in a balanced-budget situation, assuming
that inflation and our endowment income run in line with
our projections.

I am happy to be able to report that almost 25 percent of
that $26 million is already committed, with the trustees being
very active participants. You may recall that the members of
the Board of Trustees contributed more than one-third of
the total raised in Phase I [applause].

Our Phase II efforts will be under the direction of Trustee
S L Kopald, of Memphis, Tennessee, who is the chairman of
the Board’s Development Committee. He will have assisting
him a Development Council of distinguished alumni,
fourteen in number, who are very personally and
individually dedicated to the success of this effort.

Mr. Nuckols

Now, ambitious undertakings of the type in which we are
now engaged succeed only through the efforts, interest, and
generosity of very special people, and we have three such
people here tonight whom I’m going to ask to tell you why
they have regarded Washington and Lee as worthy of their
support—and that support has been quite generous. The
first is Martin Kempe. Martin is not an alumnus of
Washington and Lee; he is a parent of a former Washington
and Lee student, and is currently chairman of our Past
Parents’ campaign.

Mr. Kempe

When I was back in the hotel a few hours ago, I thought
maybe I could make the shortest speech on record and
describe in one word the way I feel about Washington and
Lee. The word is grace.

If I asked all of you here tonight what “grace” means, you
would each have a different definition. Grace is what has
caused me to do for Washington and Lee what little I have
done. It is in our surroundings; the campus is as beautiful as
any in the land. There is the heritage; that is a part of the
grace too. I see grace in the attitudes of the people at
Washington and Lee; I see it in their intellectual
accomplishments. Everything spells grace at Washington and
Lee. Even a stranger sees it. I could even mention southern
grace, but as a Dartmouth alumnus I’m not going to talk
much about that.

I am talking from my heart now, because I left my notes at
home. I realized they wouldn’t do any good. I see the people
here tonight whom Washington and Lee has touched. It
speaks for them—for the Lewises, for Dr. Jenks, for Beau
Dudley, for Bob Huntley.

I am basically a rather shy man, and it took a lot to get me
up here to talk to you at all. Five years ago when I was asked
to take the chairmanship of the Parents’ Fund I said I’d do it
on one condition—that I would never have to speak in

8

 

 

 

 

Martin Kempe, parent of a former WEL student, told why he thinks
Washington and Lee is worthy of support.

 

Author Tom Wolfe (right), 51, talks with characteristic animation to Charles
J. Longacre, ’33, during the dinner.

public. I still trust Washington and Lee people in spite of
this.

I did reach a crisis about three years ago, however. All of a
sudden, I ran out of sons. My son had graduated, and here I
was—what would I do? Would Washington and Lee simply
put me on the shelf? I thought perhaps of adopting an
eligible teenager or going to law school and becoming an
alumnus myself, but these remedies seemed a bit extreme.
But then I thought to myself, “You know, maybe I can
secure my tenure’—I think tenure is one of the things you
talk about so much now in academic circles—“if I could just
have a constituency of my own. And I think I may have a
little touch with past parents; I’m a past parent myself.” And
my gosh they bought it. So I have been able to continue
serving the University I had come to love. And now my
tenure is inexhaustible, I think, because I’ll be a non-
alumnus past parent forever. Here I am, an old Dartmouth
grad, and I’m going to be working for Washington and Lee
for as long as they want me. It has just been so great to have
had the opportunity to serve. Washington and Lee is not my
alma mater, but she sure is my alma mistress.

Mr. Nuckols

Next I would like to call on Ross R. Millhiser. Ross is vice
chairman of Philip Morris Inc. Philip Morris recently made

 

%

Ross R. Millhiser told why he feels business and industry should support
independent educational institutions like WEL.

President Huntley displays check presented by Mr. Millhiser to Washington
and Lee on behalf of Philip Morris Inc.

an extremely significant gift to our development program,
and I’d like Ross to give us some indication of why Philip
Morris feels the way it does about Washington and Lee—why
it would be willing to make such a gift.

Mr. Millhiser

Rector Nuckols; President Huntley; distinguished trustees;
Lee Associates; alumni; friends of Washington and Lee
University; talented and stalwart luminaries who have
preceded me at the lectern:

I believe it is appropriate tonight for me to cite three
propositions, although you are familiar with them and I
know you believe in them.

The first is that our democracy—and our private
enterprise system—are based on pluralism in thought and on
free, independent, and innovative ideas.

The second is that a wellspring of our pluralism in
thought and innovation is our dual system of private,
independent colleges and government-supported education.

Without government-supported institutions, after all,
many of our talented and promising young people would
have had a much more difficult time attaining a college
education. But without private, independent colleges, we
would not have the broad and deep diversity of learning that
led to the founding of this country and which remains its

  

 

 

most precious resource today. I refer particularly to that
special preserve of our private universities—the liberal arts,
or, as I prefer to think of them, the liberating arts.

And indeed they were the liberating arts when they
produced the Age of Enlightenment in pre-Revolutionary
America. We all revere the Founding Fathers for their
brilliance, but let us all thankfully recall that throughout the
Colonies there were legions of learned people who
understood and supported their cause.

At that time, there were only two institutions of higher
education in England. In America there were already six—
and all of them were private, independent colleges.

The English stood in awe of our learning in the
humanities. Edmund Burke warned Parliament that,
through education, “a fierce spirit of liberty has grown up.”
William Pitt said: “For solidity of reasoning, force of sagacity,
and wisdom of conclusion, no nation can stand in
preference” to America.

In a dramatic speech-before Parliament, Lord Effington
resigned his commission in the British army. He said: “In
this dreadful moment, a set of men more wise and moderate
than the rest exert themselves to bring us to reason. They
state their claims and grievances; nay, if anything can be
proved by law and history, they prove them.”

My final proposition is that if liberal education ignites and
preserves this spirit of liberty so fundamental to our private
enterprise system, it is to the benefit of corporations to
Support our private colleges.

Philip Morris has long endorsed this proposition. For
example, among our contributions to education has been our
support of the Virginia Foundation of Independent Colleges
for the past twenty-three years.

Tonight I am pleased to announce a direct grant to one of
the nation’s great private and venerable and vital
universities, Washington and Lee. And it is a particular
pleasure to give this grant to an old friend, one of the
foremost, and most articulate? champions of education in the
liberal arts—and I might say a most effective and graceful
director of Philip Morris—Mr. Robert E. R. Huntley.

Mr. Nuckols

Now I would like to introduce Sydney Lewis, of our Board
of Trustees, who with his wife gave us the funds for our very
handsome new law school and for the Frances Lewis Law
Center.

Mr. Lewis

Mr. President, friends. It’s a real honor to follow Ross
Millhiser. Ross and I grew up in Richmond together. He
went off to his independent college, Yale, and I made the
better decision to go to Washington and Lee. I can’t let Ross
get away without one other comment. Best Products
Company had Bob Huntley on its board before Philip
Morris.

WHY PHASE II

Several weeks ago, President Huntley suggested that I
might spend up to five minutes with you discussing the
pleasures and joys of giving and sharing. I laughed too—but
for a different reason; if the Lee Associates don’t know that
giving is pleasant then I don’t know who does. Thus I
assumed that what Bob really meant was that I should say a
few words about the joys of giving more. About a week later
Farris Hotchkiss suggested that maybe I would also like to
talk about why Frances and I wanted to make the gift to
Washington and Lee we did. For me they are really one and
the same subject.

First, for one who is really not too expert with words—but
who fortunately has a wife who is—it is very difficult to give
a talk, long or short, about this, and it is even more difficult
to convey in words one’s innermost feelings. But I will try.

Perhaps I can start with a true story. About thirteen years
ago, late one night after a long business meeting, a few of us
entrepreneurial types were shooting the breeze. It was
gradually dawning on us that the new catalogue showroom
business we had started less than ten years before might
really take off into the big time. We all were already
successful; that is, our children’s college educations were
assured, the old mortgage was paid off, a few of us were
starting to take European vacations, and I even had an Andy
Warhol portrait of Frances (actually twelve of them) hanging
on my wall at home. One of us pipedreamed what would you
do if we really got rich. Shot back another: “I know what I
would do. I would stand up in the back of a meeting room
and wave my hand frantically and say ‘I will give that new
hospital wing!’ ”

Now I can’t really describe to you the joy Frances and I
felt several years later when we were able to tell Bob Huntley
and Roy Steinheimer: “We will give you that law school and
that law center.” I can’t describe to you, either, the surge of
pleasure that Frances and I experienced as we could feel
Bob and Roy realizing that they could now take their dream
off the shelf and make it a reality. Obviously, just like every
one of you, we wanted to repay W&L for the meaningful
experience that it had been in my life. Through our gift we
wanted to maintain the ideals, the traditions and quality of
the University—knowing that this could not be done with
good intentions alone. Further, and of the most enduring
importance, what we saw in a gift to Washington and Lee
was a chance to seize the opportunity to nourish the tradition
of independent thinking which gave all of us here and those
before us our ideas and opportunities and which would be a
fountainhead for free thinking for those who come after us.

It was really like giving to ourselves—to promote our own
interests. Washington and Lee, like other independent
institutions, remains one of the few precious roads that can
lead to the kind of future in which independent thinking
and freedom of choice will exist at all in this country. If we
really believe that the educational choices are becoming
limited for the young people of the future, then we had darn

10

 

 

Trustee Sydney Lewis told of the pleasure to be derived from supporting
private institutions that “keep America vital.”

well better put our money where our mouths are and
attempt to do something about it.

In the United States we still recognize that independent
institutions keep America vital. You and I can therefore give
our money to Washington and Lee instead of to the
government. We still do get a tax break in the process of
helping ourselves in this way. To the discredit of some of us,
however, we don’t take advantage of the opportunities to
spend some of our own money ourselves. Instead we let the
government do it for us. Lyndon Johnson once looked at the
Statistics of business giving and said he concluded that the
captains of industry must figure that the government can
spend their pre-tax profits better than they can.

On the other hand, of course, a tax break is a darn poor
reason for contributing to a worthy cause. In fact, some
believe that philanthropy has lost more than it has gained by
being associated both in fact and in the public mind with the
tax advantage.

The next time you sit down at a dinner party and the
conversation turns—as usual—to the government’s sticking
its nose into everything, ask your friends whether they have
exercised their freedom recently to give more to one of the
independent institutions which are trying to buck the trend
toward conformity.

Washington and Lee zs really nothing and can do nothing
to counter that trend without our bucks, yours and mine.

And that is what Frances and I see in Washington and Lee—

a chance really to help ourselves. Exercising the choice
allowed to us, voting with our dollars, still provides us all
with a chance to reinforce those independent institutions
that can keep freedom of choice alive. That is giving to
promote our interests—and that is a real pleasure.

by Robert E. R. Huntley

THE W&L MISSION

The President Scolds Diluters of a Liberal Arts Education

The following remarks were delivered by President Huntley at the
annual banquet of the Robert E. Lee Associates on October 27 in New
York City; they were expanded in his Report to Parents in Lee Chapel
on November 4.

I wish to share with you a few reflections of mine about the

educational mission to which your school is dedicated, and
some of the threats to which I think it is exposed—and some
suggestion as to our determination to pursue and achieve the
objectives to which our tradition commits us.

The word “liberal” is used in so many contexts with so many
differing connotations that we may forget that its primary
meaning has to do with freedom: liberty and liberation. A
liberal education is an education designed to liberate the mind,
to free it from ignorance and from the animal emotions and
instincts which may constrict and dominate it, and to free it
from the aimless and useless thrashings-about to which the
untutored intellect is prone.

So far as I am aware, it is only the mind of man which makes
him a distinctive creature on earth. It is his mind that gives him
the capacity for rationality and belief—and these are his
distinctive characteristics, reason and faith.

A liberal education is intended to cause the mind to become
as useful as it is capable of being! In this sense, the purpose of a
liberal education is the most utilitarian of all.

We may inquire: What are the attributes of a useful mind?
The principal attribute is the capacity for sustained, disciplined
thought—about any significant subject to which it may assign
itself.

L. me mention a few of my ideas about the way in which a

liberal arts college like Washington and Lee attempts—or
should attempt—to provide its students the foundation of a
liberal education, to help its students develop useful minds.

The curriculum should include courses in all or nearly all
the subjects which time has proven to be fit for disciplined and
orderly inquiry and which reveal and explore important
segments of mankind’s accumulated experience. This is a tall
order. It’s easy to discern certain subjects which must be
included—history and literature, for example. Others come
quickly to mind; the natural sciences, philosophy, religion,
economics, for example—by no means an exhaustive list.

All these subjects, and some others, readily meet the two
basic criteria I suggested earlier. Each is a fit subject for orderly
and disciplined inquiry. Each encompasses a _ massive
accumulation of thought and knowledge and wisdom of
mankind over an extended time. Each has been the subject of
orderly and disciplined exploration by the best minds of the
past. Thus, each can be taught and learned in a manageable
way.

Each of them represents an important segment of man’s
earthly experience, which means that the knowledge one

 

 

obtains through careful study of these subjects is in itself likely
to be relevant to the future.

Note that the absorption of knowledge or information is not
the principal purpose of the liberal arts education but rather is
a valuable incident of the quest for a useful mind.

Once it is determined that the curriculum includes
comprehensive treatment of the proper subjects, it must be
assured that these subjects are properly taught. The teacher
must be accomplished—an accomplished scholar and a master
of his field—and must himself have achieved a liberally
educated mind. And he must be able and willing to apply his
mastery to the process of leading the relatively untutored
minds of his students into a rigorous learning process. He must
be patient; but to a degree he must also be ruthless in his
demands upon his students. His objective is not to gratify his
students; his objective is to educate them, to help them achieve
tough, disciplined, useful minds.

The courses, properly selected and properly taught, must be
imbedded in a curricular structure which is well ordered and
purposeful. A random array will not do. The undergraduate
student must be guided into this curriculum in a way which will
cause him to achieve two immediate objectives. First, he must
have a significant learning experience in each of the several
kinds of subjects which make up a liberal arts curriculum—
humanities, natural sciences, languages, social sciences. There
may be several ways of causing this diverse selection without
requiring this or that specific course, leaving the student a wide

choice. But the choice must be sufficiently restricted to allow it

to be intelligently exercised by the student and to assure that no
choice exists which thwarts the basic objective of the liberal arts
educational process.

E urthermore, the student is required to achieve approxi-
mate mastery of at least one liberal arts subject. He may become
a major in economics, or physics, or English, for example.

Note that this process, the liberal arts process, is not the same
as what is sometimes called “general education.” “General
education,” if I understand that term, seeks to tell the student a
little bit about a lot of things—to produce a well-informed and
presumably well-adjusted human being. A_ liberal arts
education postulates that the student should have the real
experience of learning and thinking in each of several arenas
of knowledge where the greatest minds of the past have plowed
fertile ground—and that in one of them he should become, as
nearly as he can, an expert. Its purpose is not to produce well-
informed graduates, though it may incidentally do that. Its
purpose is to produce well-educated graduates, who can
quickly become well informed in almost any field, and who can
apply a tough and discriminating intellect to the information
they obtain.

In other words, the well-educated graduate is confident of
his ability to master difficult knowledge; he is aware by

11

 

“A liberal education is intended to cause the mind
to become as useful as it is capable of being. In this sense, the purpose
of a liberal education is the most utilitarian of all.”

 

experience of the ways in which knowledge has been achieved
and can be used. He is also aware of the limits of reason and
intellect—and thus has the potential for real faith. He can
discern the lasting values—and thus has the capacity for
judgment.

The ideal of the liberal arts tradition is not easily attained,
even by those institutions such as Washington and Lee which
strive purposefully to attain it. At best, there must be
compromises and experiments which changing times seem to
require. Knowledge is not static, and the new experiences of
mankind must be incorporated into the curriculum. But if the
ideal is kept intact, and clearly agreed upon by those at the
college, the way can be found to achieve for a preponderance
of the graduates the foundations of a useful mind.

B. make no mistake. The liberal arts educational process,

and the liberal educational ideal, are under attack in a number
of ways, both practical and philosophical. Often, the attack is
not articulated—a tacit undermining—but it is occurring
nevertheless.

I am encouraged to some degree by the increasing number
of speeches and articles defending the liberal arts tradition in
education. I am distressed that there is a need for a defense.
(Someone once said that a person who must ask the purpose of
a liberal education would be incapable of understanding the
answer.)

In part, the need for such a defense grows out of the
universality of educational opportunity, which to our credit we
as a nation have come very close to achieving. But in our quest
for universality we may have tacitly redefined education to
mean preparation. And with preparation as our objective, it is
more likely that we practical Americans will want to know:
Preparation for what?—for what specific tasks?

Thus, for example, it is commonly assumed that one who
spends much time in college on, say, history or English must be
preparing himself to teach those subjects. Others—that is,
those who don’t plan to teach them—must defend the apparent
impracticality of their serious study of the humanities.

Education has been confused with training. A bird dog
needs training, and if he is to be a good bird dog, he must have
training. A human being needs education, and if he is to be a
good human being, he must have education. Human beings
may also be trained—whether or not they are educated. But for
an important task, any intelligent employer except a despot will
always choose an untrained well-educated person over an
uneducated well-trained one. For human beings, training is
important; education is vital.

ote liberal arts tradition represents the major example in
all history of a sustained effort to develop educational pro-
cesses and educational institutions. It may be that the United
States is the last place on earth where institutions dedicated to a
true educational purpose can survive. Let us pray they can
survive here, for there are many pressures which threaten
their survival.

12

 

Professional medical education has, in my opinion, become
in recent years a prime example of destructive pressure on the
liberal arts and on liberal education. Medical educators
frequently state their belief in the need for liberally educated
physicians, but the actions of their schools often belie their
words.

No one expects that medical schools will be able to provide
their students with a liberal education. They are primarily
complex—and effective—training institutions. If the medical
student or the physician is to become an educated person, the
foundations for that prospect will almost certainly have to
come from his college years. Probably few would argue with
this premise.

But the medical schools are increasingly squeezing the
undergraduate college in the direction of diluting seriously the
liberal educational experience of the pre-medical student. This
Squeeze apparently results from the need to screen the large
numbers of applications for admission to medical school, an
understandable problem. Any admissions process which must
reject many quite well-qualified applicants would presumably
have some unhappy side effects.

Many medical school admissions officers appear to be solv-

ing their problem by laying primary emphasis on the
applicant’s specific achievement in advanced science courses.
The applicant who has A’s in such science courses and B’s in,
let’s say, history, English, and economics will be preferred to
the applicant whose A’s are in the humanities and whose
science grades are good but not superlative. Pre-medical
students learn this simple lesson very quickly and adjust their
course selection and their study habits accordingly—to the
detriment of their total educational experience. And the
college itself must soon react to the pressure, because if its pre-
medical students do not achieve admission to medical school
the reputation of the college suffers in the market place. It may
react by revising its curriculum to satisfy the medical school
admissions pressure, revisions which may run counter to the
educational ideals which I have sketched.

To make matters worse, the medical aptitude test has
recently begun to stress especially the applicant’s specific
scientific information in several areas, a problem exaggerated
by the pattern of taking the test at the end of the junior year in
college.

I was especially disturbed when reading the report of a
conference of medical educators held this summer under the
auspices of the American Council on Education. The
conference addressed itself to many topics selected in advance
by poll from the medical educators. One of the choices offered
as a topic for discussion was the interaction and mesh between
medical education and pre-medical education. Apparently not
one medical educator checked that as a subject even worthy of
discussion.

Ne may ask: Why do the colleges permit this unwanted in-
trusion into their domain? The answer, I am afraid, is not a

 

“The liberal arts educational process and the
liberal educational ideal are under attack in a number of ways... . Often
the attack is not articulated—a tacit undermining. .. .”

 

 

 

 

 

“It may be that the United States is the last
place on earth where institutions dedicated to a true educational purpose

can survive. Let us pray they can survive here. ...

99

 

happy one. Partly, it is lack of conviction. Partly, it is lack of
concern.

It is also possible that many of our large public institutions—
not all, but many—have long since lost the battle to preserve a
liberal educational ideal. If this be true, then the last line of
defense is the independent liberal arts college, which is not ina
strong position to exert effective pressure on our educational
system.

The pressure from medical schools is, of course, merely one
example. Similar pressure may come and has come, from time
to time, from other forms of graduate education. Not
uncommonly, it also comes from potential employers, some of
whom must see the specific and immediate applicability of each
course to the business at hand before hiring a graduate.

Each new pressure, even if it eventually recedes, erodes
some part of the ideal, unless there is a spirited and determined
effort to preserve it. I would mention, further by way of
example, the growing pressure on the private or independent
sector of education from the public or governmental sector.
This seems to me to be a fairly telling point because of what I
perceive to be the close identity between the small independent
college and the liberal arts tradition. The tradition began there
and that is its principal residence today. In large part, this
identity is because of the very fact of independence, and hence
a kind of insulation from the practical, political, and societal
pressures of the moment.

In any event, whatever the reason (and that would be
another speech), even casual observation will reveal that the
identity exists—the identity between the small liberal arts
college and the liberal educational ideal I mentioned. And so
what threatens the independent liberal arts college obviously
threatens the ideal.

Tie public education system faces its own problems. In
recent years we have all heard much about the diminishing
college-age population. Most private institutions—certainly
Washington and Lee—have long since learned to live, and
indeed desire to live, with student populations of stable size.
Most public institutions have become accustomed to living on
what I would call “the margin of growth” in the years since
World War II; in those years, there have been rapid annual
increases in student enrollments at nearly all public
institutions. At most such institutions, increased operating
income is a direct and immediate result of increased student
body size, but the additional costs of enlarged size tend to lag by
several years. Therefore, even if there are no permanent unit
economies of scale to be derived from largeness, there will be
an apparent financial health provided by the margin of
growth. As that growth diminishes or levels off to zero, the
pressure on the public institution to find students will become
increasingly insistent. At that point the large differential
between the cost to the student of attending a public institution
on the one hand and a private institution on the other will
become more and more critical.

I might digress to point out that I say the cost to the student.

14

 

There is no evidence that the cost of education of the kind
delivered at Washington and Lee is greater than the cost of
education delivered in public institutions. The tab is paid in a
different way.

A second pressure coming to bear upon private institutions
from the public sector has to do with fundraising. As the
numbers diminish and as, at the same time, legislators and
legislatures become more and more restrictive about their
willingness to keep open the faucet of unlimited public funds,
public institutions all over the country are turning to private
philanthropy. I don’t blame them for that; I simply cite it as a
fact.

I would point out one or two salient economic points about

that observation. For the public institution, private
philanthropy is the icing on the cake. For us, it is the cake.

For a private institution like Washington and Lee, a small
school which can afford to spend only so much money on
fundraising, our effort to raise funds must be _ highly
productive. For a public institution which turns to private
philanthropy to supplement its major resources from the
public sector, the amount of manpower and the amount of |
money which can be and is being spent to raise each dollar can
be far larger. So there is a distinct likelihood that the public
institutions, in the years ahead, will increasingly drain from the
pockets of private philanthropy those assets upon which we
independent colleges depend.

If I am correct in my assertion that the liberal arts tradition
will not survive very long without the survival of small
independent institutions such as Washington and Lee, then the
prospect of the demise of such institutions is a serious one.

©). other point I would note—not entirely in jest—is that
public institutions never die. There is no death mechanism for
a governmental organization. Private institutions have many
ways of dying. Many have; many will.

There are other threats of this practical variety. There is,
however, one philosophical threat that is perhaps of greater
concern. I will allude to it only briefly; I have perhaps
suggested it in my opening remarks.

I believe there is a growing doubt among educators and
among the populace of America about the value of the kind of
education I’ve attempted to describe. I am no longer as certain
as I would have been twenty years ago, no longer as certain as I
would like to be, that most persons in America agree with my
emphasis on the importance of liberal education. I suspect that
this grows from several factors. The increasing demand for
practicality, for immediate applicability of everything learned,
is one. Another, more disturbing, is the increasing distrust of
reason and rationality. You can see it all around you—the turn
to the occult, to the metaphysical; the eschewing of reason as
the primary basis for human existence. You sometimes hear
this notion summed up in the question: “Is education

 

“We will survive—with your help—as at least one
institution that believes in the liberal education, in the value of the
human mind, and in the aspirations of the human spirit.”

 

relevant?” (I suppose the more modern thing would be to ask:
“Are you with it?”)

I think there are at least three meanings I have detected that
are attached to the word “relevant” when it is used in the
context of condemning education. It implies, first, that
education must be timely, contemporary, must relate directly
and demonstrably to the problems of the moment, and to the
solutions which may be found to those problems—it must apply
itself immediately to closing the portholes of the sinking ship.
Second, it implies that education must be self-executing; that is,
not merely an exposition of the problem and its range of
possible solutions, but must be accompanied by direct action to
implement the favored solution. Third, it implies a profound
distrust in the processes of reason and rationality, a vague
suggestion that reason and humanity are antithetical. Too
often, goes the suggestion, the latter has yielded to the former,
and what is needed now is less reason and more humanity, a
kind of gut-feeling way of living.

To these kinds of criticisms, education should respond
positively and with conviction. It is my impression that it has
not yet done so.

ee fifty years ago the Spanish philosopher Ortega y Gasset
addressed himself to the issue of the mission of the university
in a little booklet by that name, developed from the notes of a
speech he had delivered to a university audience in Madrid.
According to Ortega, the purpose of education at a university is
the transmission of culture. He is at pains to point out that by
“culture” he does not mean those vague notions of
enlightenment which make culture appear as the “ornamental
accessory for the life of leisure.” I find this disclaimer par-
ticularly appealing, for I have always detested the suggestion
that culture is merely an ornament of the educated mind. It is,
rather, its essence.

Ortega says: “Culture is what saves human life from being a
mere disaster; it is what enables man to live a life which is
something above meaningless tragedy or inward disgrace.”

At Washington and Lee now, as for many years, most of our
students will find their careers in the professions—law,
business, medicine, teaching, journalism, the ministry, or
others. For us, Ortega says this:

“The man who does not possess [for example] the concept of
physics (not the science of physics proper, but the vital idea of
the world which it has created) and the concept afforded by
history . . .and the scheme of speculative philosophy, is not an
educated man. . . . [It] is extremely unlikely that such a man will
be, in the fullest sense, a good doctor, a good judge, or a good
technical expert. But it is certain that all the other things he
does in life, including parts of his profession . . . will turn out
affairs of the heart ... will be crude and ridiculous; he will
bring to his family life an atmosphere of unreality and
cramped narrowness. . . which will warp the upbringing of his
children; and outside, with his friends, he will emit thoughts
that are monstrosities and opinions that are a torrent of drivel
and bluff.”

 

Ohc¢: spoke strongly.

“Civilization has had to await the beginning of the twentieth
century,” he said, “to see the astounding spectacle of how
brutal, how stupid, and yet how aggressive is the man learned
in one thing and fundamentally ignorant of all else.”

As to educational objectives, Ortega dwells on what he calls
“economy,” by which he means the teaching of what can be
learned. We must begin with “the ordinary student” and must
teach exclusively what can be learned by such a student and can
be taught with intellectual discipline and stringency.

Culture, he says, is the system of ideas which each age
possesses, the repertory of our active convictions as to the
nature of our world and our fellow creatures—convictions as to
the hierarchy of the values of things: Which are to be more
esteemed, and which less.

And then this passage: “. . . Ateach moment it is necessary to
make up our minds what we are going to do next. ... We
cannot put off living until we are ready. The most salient
characteristic of life is its coerciveness. ... Life is fired at us
point-blank. And culture, which is but its interpretation,
cannot wait any more than can life itself.”

Ortega’s ideas suggest a mission that is at once practical and
sublime. I would wish to believe that it is the mission of this Uni-
versity. It might be pleasant and easy to think otherwise, that is,
to conceive of ourselves as trainers rather than as educators; to
regard this place as a resting-place where young people will
“find themselves” and grow up; to regard inquiry and
information as our purpose rather than as an incident of our
purpose; or to conclude that none of it really matters.

Bu. that we cannot do. Washington and Lee stands on a
tradition of more than two centuries of endurance. There are
few, very few, institutions of any kind, in or out of education,
which have such a tradition. It is not merely a matter of survival
or of historical accident which puts us here today. We are here
because through all the adversities and mistakes and
digressions of the past, there has emerged a constantly
unfolding perception of the value of the educated mind, and of
Washington and Lee’s role in cultivating that value.

We must—and we can—make certain that the perception of
that value and of that role does not wither because of our
preoccupation with other, more transitory concerns, and that it
does not suffocate because it becomes too deeply buried in the
complexities of modern life and survival.

At Washington and Lee, I believe I can speak for the faculty,
the students, and the Board of Trustees in assuring you that it
is our determined intention to retain our educational ideal. We
will survive—with your help—as at least one institution that
believes in the liberal education, in the value of the human
mind, and in the aspirations of the human spirit. With your
assistance, this school, two hundred years from now, will still
represent the traditions and the strengths which it has
represented for the two hundred years that have gone before.

I, like all of us at Washington and Lee, am grateful to you for
the assistance you have given us in the past. We count on you
for much in the future.

15

 

 

 

cehikinmeaeebanmnnenen

AND GLADLY TECHE’

 

 

 

—Chaucer
Conversations with Senior Professors
About Why They Stick With W&L
And Why They Teach Basic Courses

 

 

 

 

In recent years at Washington and Lee, in the 1970s especi-
ally, there has been a notable increase in the number of sophis-
ticated, advanced courses and whole new specialized pro-
grams—East Asian studies and professional ethics and “the
corporation in society”; “environmental geomorphology” and
“seminar in Buddhist thought” and the history of Venice and
“organic qualitative analysis 111”; and on and on and on. Wash-
ington and Lee offers more than 700 different courses this year;
twenty years ago, just 333 were taught.

The natural question is: At what cost?

Washington and Lee always cherished its role as an institution
that grounded its students faithfully in the liberal arts—an
institution that recognized no higher priority than introducing
its students (who were carefully selected specifically on the
basis of their capacity to appreciate and profit from the W&L
approach) to broad fields of academic inquiry in a manner that
would prepare them in a superior way for useful and fulfilling
personal and professional lives. The question then is legiti-
mately posed: Have we given that up in favor of specialization-
ad-absurdem?

The answer is: Hardly. Quietly, without the fanfare that
seems always to attend the introduction of new courses and
programs, Washington and Lee continues to do what it has
always done well—and continues to do it perhaps yet better,
thanks precisely to the stimulus that accompanies advanced
courses and new programs. The latter do not replace the for-
mer. No less naturally than by design, they complement them.

What is impressive is that almost without exception, W&L’s
new programs and new advanced courses, esoteric to us lay-
men, have been instituted by teachers whose primary personal
commitment remains to the broad-based liberal arts. Many—
perhaps most—of them would not care to be characterized as
hard-line traditionalists in the general sense of the term. (Some
would.) The fact is, however, that each of them has chosen to
subscribe to what has been, throughout its history, traditional
at Washington and Lee: an unyielding insistence that every
student be exposed to the best faculty in the University’s power
to assemble—from the day the student begins his first class as a
freshman. It is the opportunity offered to every student, “liter-
ally every student,” as Trustee Emeritus Lewis F. Powell Jr. put
it, “to study under the great senior faculty members who grace
this institution.”

At Washington and Lee, the introductory courses are not
relegated to the junior faculty. Still less does W&L employ
graduate-student teaching assistants. It would probably have a
salutary effect on the budget (and therefore on tuition and on
our expectations from the Annual Fund) if we did. But it is
clear that it would have exactly the opposite effect on the
quality of our academic programs. We were struck, in fact, as
we talked with these senior professors, at their unanimity in not
wanting to be relieved of what we had assumed might be the
“burden” of survey or introductory courses.

We chose these professors precisely because they do not have
to teach basic courses. Any of them could, if he wished, be on

16

 

the faculty in almost any graduate school and never see a fresh-
man or a sophomore at all. Many of them we know to receive
frequent feelers and actual offers of graduate-school chair-
manships and endowed chairs. All of them have decided to
remain at Washington and Lee.

We asked them more or less the same question: “Why? Why
stay at W&L, and particularly why consent to teach, or’—in the
case of department heads—“assign yourself to teach, the intro-
ductory courses?” What was perhaps most interesting is that
most of them were baffled that the question would be asked at
all; surprised that the answer shouldn’t go without saying.

—R.S.K.

 

 

 

WILLIAM W. PUSEY III
S. Blount Mason Jr. Professor of German

W.,, do I “consent,” as a senior professor, to teach intro-
ductory courses? I suppose the main reason is that I enjoy
teaching beginning German; I’ve done it almost every year
since I’ve been at Washington and Lee—I enjoy teaching stu-
dents who are, by and large, enthusiastic about a new subject;
over the years I’ve developed, at least I think I’ve developed,
considerable expertise; P’ve done it now for close to 35 years.
When I was head of the department, I always assigned myself a
section of beginning German. I just like to teach people who
are—in many instances—enthusiastic about what they’re learn-
ing. Of course I also teach courses that might be considered
esoteric; for instance, one in Russian literature of the 19th
century, which I enjoy doing for other reasons. I don’t find this

 

incompatible at all, teaching introductory and upper-level
courses; I enjoy the mix. It’s the mix that’s important, in fact—
maintaining that delicate line of balance.

William W. Pusey III, S. Blount Mason Professor of German. BA, Haver-
ford College; Ph.D., Columbia. Came to W&L 39 years ago. Head of the
German department, 1939-76; Dean of The College, 1960-71; Acting
President of the University, 1967-68. Founder and first chairman of the
East Asian Studies Program. Author: Louis-Sebastien Mercier in Germany
(1939); Miltary German (1943); The Interrupted Dream: The Educational
Program at Washington College/Washington and Lee University, 1850-80
(1976). Teaches introductory German; intermediate German; seminar
covering special topics in German literature; elementary Russian; Rus-
sian literature in translation.

 

 

 

EDGAR SPENCER
Professor of Geology

WVschington and Lee offers an especially happy combina-
tion of conditions which make teaching here very attractive to
me. I would find it difficult to put these in strict order of
relative importance, but it is clear that having well-prepared
and well-motivated students, good physical facilities, and an
administration that supports the faculty through good salaries,
benefits such as our leave program, and both faculty and un-
dergraduate research programs are all important. It should
also be noted that this is a very pleasant community in which to
live. The beauty of this valley and the interesting local geology
are very important to me. I enjoy most of my contact with
undergraduates—especially in seeing them discover and be-
come interested in geology. Fred Schwab and I spend a lot of

 

time with freshmen and sophomores during the Spring Term
when we work with students several hours each day and are
often away on field trips in our course in field methods and
Appalachian geology; this is certainly the most satisfying teach-
ing experience I have, and I believe that is because we really do
have a chance to know one another and to share a common
interest. W&L is one of the strong undergraduate colleges in
the country, and we aspire to offer one of the best undergradu-
ate geology programs.

Edgar W. Spencer, professor of geology and head of the department. BA,
W&L; Ph.D., Columbia. Came to W&L 21 years ago. Author: Basic
Concepts of Physical Geology (1962), Basic Concepts of Historical Geology
(1962), Geology: A Survey of Earth Science (1965), Introduction to the Structure
of the Earth (1969; second edition 1977), The Dynamics of the Earth (1972).
Fellowships: National Science Foundation (1958-63, Precambrian
geology; 1965-66, regional tectonics in New Zealand and Australia).
Advisory editor, Thomas Y. Crowell Co., publishers. Teaches introduc-
tory (general) geology; meteorology; field methods; oceanography;
geophysics; structural geology and tectonics.

 

 

WILLIAM BUCHANAN
Professor of Politics

The topic is so fascinating—the differences between big
universities and small colleges such as Washington and Lee—
that I can produce not three but thirty minutes of observations.

There are some satisfactions in teaching at a big university,
in supervising M.A. theses and Ph.D. dissertations; working
with somebody who knows a good bit about his field and is
working on a problem that’s of interest to both of you. There’s
always the possibility of coming up with something new; at least
you both share the hope. It is gratifying to teach graduate
seminars, when you're dealing with people who've read or are
reading most of the major works, and know the terminology.
And you’re more likely to have speakers come through for
conferences and seminars and the like; that’s one of the things
I think maybe undergraduates in a liberal arts college miss.

‘The compensations are in terms of breadth. Here, I cover
the whole field of American government; I teach courses that
would be taught by five professors in a big university. It’s hard-
er; you have to stretch. Keeping up with the literature through-
out the whole discipline is much tougher than keeping up with
one’s own specialty. But I find this challenging—and exciting
in its way.

And the exposure to other disciplines here is so much broad-
er, too. One of the things we’ll miss most about Ed Turner is
that over in the Alumni House, at coffee every morning, he
could talk about black holes or the origins of scientific theory in
a way we all would understand. Ata large university you might
have a Nobel laureate, but he wouldn’t be having coffee with
the political scientists and economists and the religion and the
philosophy teachers.

Here, the study of government meshes with the study of
language and literature and art. That’s an important part of a
liberal arts education, I think. It would be nice, for instance, if
we could have a course in the governments of the Arabs, but I
think it’s more important to do it the way W&L does.

There is at the same time a lot of research and writing that
goes on here. But we do it notas the alternative to perishing; we
do it because we like to do it. I get almost as much satisfaction
showing undergraduates what social-science and political re-
search 7s as from doing it. It requires skill; some knowledge of
logic; a certain detachment or objectivity; a certain mode of
discovery; certain precise ways of communicating. This is ob-

17

viously not the sole way of looking at the world; other depart-
ments teach other ways—and this is really the essence of the
liberal arts education, to look at the world from two or three
different valid points of view, to be able to contrast different
approaches and different ways of thinking.

 

William Buchanan, professor of politics and head of the department.
BA, MA, W&L; Ph.D., Princeton. Came to W&L 12 years ago after
teaching at Tennessee, Southern Cal, and Mississippi State. Author:
Understanding Political Variables (1969, second edition 1974), Legislative
Partisanship (1963). Co-author: The Legislative System (1962), An Interna-
tronal Police Force and Public Opinion (1954), How Nations See Each Other
(1953). Chairman, Committee on Undergraduate Study, American
Political Science Association (1969-7 1). Fellowships: National Science
Foundation faculty fellow at Queen’s University, Belfast, and University
College, Dublin, Ireland, 1971-72; Fulbright (Australia), 1977. Teaches
introductory American government survey course; upper level Ameri-
can political process; public policy-making; the legislative process; re-
search methods.

 

 

CLARK R. MOLLENHOFF

Professor of Journalism

"Teaching at the undergraduate level at W&L is enjoyable
to me because of the opportunity for close personal contact
with the younger students. I’m certain it is more satisfying than
teaching at a large graduate institution. I like to believe I can
stimulate them in the introductory courses in journalism, and
show them the vital role of mass communications in our society.

18

 

And then after having had a crack at them in a large class, I
have another opportunity to give them an understanding in
greater depth of the analysis of government operations from a
press viewpoint in my contemporary issues seminar.

It’s particularly gratifying to get to know them as individuals
in their sophomore year—to have the opportunity to guide,
encourage, and, I hope, inspire them as they start to mature.
There is an added pleasure and satisfaction in dealing with
them later in a smaller class where I can help them gain the
confidence that they can, with sufficient study and work, gain a
competence in dealing with the analysis of actual problems.

Washington and Lee is particularly attractive because of its
size. Students—and teachers as well—get lost in larger institu-
tions. I like to know my students personally; I like to have a
grasp of the influences they’re subjected to; and I like to know
what my colleagues are teaching them at any given moment.

I’ve found that Washington and Lee students are uniformly
bright, and with great potential. With only a few exceptions,
they can be stimulated to mature and balanced thinking on the
most complicated problems of the press and government.

 

Clark R. Mollenhoff, professor of journalism. JD (law), Drake University.
Came to W&L in 1976 after 25 years with the Des Moines (Iowa) Register
and Tribune (Washington correspondent from 1950; Washington bureau
chief from 1970). Presidential ombudsman in the first Nixon admini-
stration, 1969-70. Pulitzer Prize for investigative reporting, 1958.
Author: Washington Coverup (1962), Tentacles of Power (1965), Despoilers
of Democracy (1965), The Pentagon (1967), George Romney: Mormon in
Politics (1968), Strike Force (1972), Game Plan for Disaster (1976), The Man
Who Pardoned Nixon (1976). Honorary degrees from six colleges. Fel-
lowships: Neiman, Eisenhower. Teaches introductory mass communi-
cations; contemporary issues; advanced reporting; “The Mass Media.”

 

 

 

 

LEONARD E. JARRARD
Professor of Psychology

O.. of the important considerations in my decision to come

back to Washington and Lee was that I missed the exposure to
the undergraduates. I was primarily involved in graduate
education at Carnegie-Mellon, and I felt something was lack-
ing—having taught here before} having taught undergraduates
and the introductory course. I missed that an awful lot, that
exposure to the undergraduates. All of us in the department
here teach the introductory course; this is important to us. And
it’s a lot of fun—seeing the reactions of undergraduates. It’s a
challenge to be able to present complex material in a way that a
person without previous exposure to the field can interpret,
can make sense of. Students here get to know their professors,
on a personal level, in a way they wouldn’t at a larger institu-
tion.

I wouldn’t really be content teaching only psychology majors.
Some of the satisfying students I’ve had, in fact, have been
majors from other disciplines—English and history, political
science, business. I enjoy the pre-med students thoroughly;
they’re bright and motivated and interested. One of the advan-
tages of Washington and Lee is that students are genuinely
encouraged to take courses in disciplines other than their
majors. I think that by doing that they truly do broaden them-
selves. They need that breadth—they’ll get depth if they go on
to graduate school. |

I think our research opportunities here increase the value of
the education our students receive. This is specialization of a
sort, but not specialization as one usually thinks of it; not aimed
solely at students who are going on to graduate study in a
narrow field. It provides them with a way of thinking about
research, an understanding of what research entails—the kinds
of questions one must ask, and the procedures for determining
answers. For example, if a student goes on into politics, his
education ideally ought to have included some development of
an understanding of what’s involved [in research]. In an un-

 

dergraduate situation such as W&L’s, we’re not really training
them only to go on ina particular field; we’re broadening their
experience. It gives them an advantage, I think, that students
elsewhere generally don’t have.

Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of psychology and department head. AB,
Baylor; Ph.D., Carnegie-Mellon. Taught at W&L 1959-65; returned in
1971. From 1966 to 1971: Taught at Carnegie-Mellon University;
chairman of the graduate program in psychology 1968-71. Editor:
Cognitive Processes of Nonhuman Primates (1971). Author of 16 research
articles, primarily about the hippocampus (a portion of the brain), in
scholarly journals and books of readings. Consulting editor, Journal of
Comparative and Physiological Psychology. Grants, fellowships: National
Science Foundation support for research into the hippocampus from
1966 to the present; visiting lecturer and professor, University of Oxford
(England), and fellow, University College (Oxford, England), in 1975-
76. Teaches introductory psychology; psychoactive drugs and behavior;
physiological psychology.

 

 

 

SIDNEY M. B. COULLING
Professor of English

I made the decision twenty years ago to remain at Washing-
ton and Lee; I’ve never regretted it. With regard to teaching
introductory courses—teaching freshmen and sophomores—I
suppose honesty says that most of us think we should. We think
it is better for the students; I believe it is better for faculty
morale as well, for senior professors to take their part rather
than turn it all over to instructors or assistant professors.

I think we find that it’s more fun to teach freshmen and
sometimes sophomores in the introductory courses. They’re
fresher, sometimes. They’re less jaded; they have the spon-
taneity, perhaps the naivete, and the ingenuousness to ask
different questions—different and difficult.

19

The difficulty with teaching only at advanced levels is that
anyone, after a while, develops such a professional competence,
or, aS we say, “expertise,” that he can teach—or talk to—
persons only at that more advanced level. It becomes manifestly
unfair for him to talk to persons who know so much less about
his specialty. He may lose sight of what is important and what ts
unimportant; this often leads to pedantry. He senses it too; he
is frequently uncomfortable in trying to present his subject toa
general audience because he feels he is falsifying. What he
would prefer to do is talk about his subject to his peers, who are
other specialists, of whom there may be only one hundred in
the entire world. That’s worse than being able to talk only with
the Cabots and the Lodges. When I deal with my specialty
[Matthew Arnold], I have literally read everything he has writ-
ten, and have read almost everything that has been written
about him, certainly in the important journals and books. But
when I teach the survey course, I am not in that position, and to
some degree I too am learning some of these matters with the
students. I think my teaching is more spontaneous. In any
event, it is more stimulating.

And I think, finally, it is more satisfying because one very
often has a sense of tangible, concrete reward. It’s easier to see
the development, the maturation, the growth, the improve-
ment, the progress of a freshman than it is of a senior. One
reason some of us enjoy teaching the composition course is that
progress is visible; it is specific. It’s personally rewarding and
enriching to know you have played a part in that progress. It’s
much harder to see the progress of a student in, let us say,
coming to a greater appreciation of an ode by Keats or an essay
by Arnold than it is to see that in his own writing he is improv-

ing.

Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of English and head of the department.
BA, W&L; Ph.D., University of North Carolina. Came to W&L in 1956.
Author: Matthew Arnold and His Critics (1974). Teaches introductory
courses in various literary forms; basic survey of British literature;
autobiography in prose and poetry; Romantic poetry; Victorian poetry;
Victorian thought.

 

 

CHARLES F. PHILLIPS JR.

Professor of Economics

i the decision many years ago that I’d prefer to teach
at an undergraduate institution, at Washington and Lee—in
large part because of the challenge it offers and also in large
part because of the close contact one has with students, seeing
them develop over a period of three or four years. If you ask
me specifically about the elementary courses I teach, there’s no
question that—at least in economics—the introductory course
is one of the most difficult courses any student has to take. It’s
new to most students; it’s almost like learning a new language
with new concepts. I find that challenging.

I wouldn’t want to have the introductory courses taken over
by a teaching assistant, for a couple of reasons. For one, I did
that myself at [the University of] New Hampshire, and I
shudder at some of the things I did. Second, I think you lose
the very contact with the students which is so important—the
basic reason I’d rather remain at an undergraduate institution.

There are times when it would be easier, when from a grading
point of view it would be helpful to have an assistant to read the
exams. But there again I think there’s considerable value in the
person who’s teaching the course also doing the grading. The
teacher learns something from the grading process as well,
from the way the students answer. You can identify students

20

 

who do not seem to grasp a concept; it becomes pretty clear in
grading their papers where you should change things in the
classroom, do things differently.

I don’t think that at an undergraduate school a teacher ought
to get locked in to thinking he can do nothing but practice a
certain specialty. I don’t think that’s the function of an under-
graduate school. And Washington and Lee is an undergraduate
school, and that is why we are here. There’s no reason why a
teacher can’t have a specialty; probably a good teacher should.
Probably to be a good teacher, he must. The advanced course-
work, the advanced research, are an important component of
one’s introductory teaching.

 

Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of economics. BA, University of New
Hampshire; Ph.D., Harvard. Came to W&L in 1959. Author: Competition
in the Synthetic Rubber Industry (1963), The Economics of Regulation (1965,
revised 1969). Editor of annual volume of research papers on regulation
and communications since 1974. Author of more than 40 research
articles including “What’s Wrong With Profit Maximization?”, widely
reprinted in management and marketing texts. Section leader in num-
erous corporate and executive development programs for American
business and industry. Consultant (currently or in the recent past) to
many regulated companies and industries, including AT&T, The New
York Stock Exchange, Gulf Oil, Vepco. Expert witness before Securities
and Exchange Commission, U.S. House committees, regulatory com-
missions in 15 states. Mayor, Lexington; member, Commission on the
Review of the National Policy toward Gambling (1971-76). Faculty
associate, Management Analysis Center Inc. Teaches introductory eco-
nomics; government and business; regulated industries. Director,
Corporation and Society program.

 

 

WILLIAM A. JENKS
William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of History

E or me there is no problem at all in dealing with freshmen.
They’re an awful lot of fun; they always have been. There’s a
good deal of enthusiasm; they’re rather vivacious. They ask
naive questions on occasion; on the other hand, you may get a
young man who can smarten you up a good bit.

And I think you also have to remember that the senior pro-

fessor is not unaware of the number of majors who may or may
not come into the department in future years; quite often you
can keep up a student’s interest or perhaps develop an interest
that was latent.

I think most of all I prefer to see the potential lawyer and
businessman and doctor and not deal solely with those who will

be going on in the same career as I have. I think it’s more
interesting, in the long run, to deal with younger people than
to deal with those who must by necessity specialize. Some of the
best students I’ve had have gone on in other fields. Any teacher
in the history department will tell you that when you have a
really good man from another discipline, from economics or
accounting, for example, you are certainly likely to have a class
in which he will stimulate others. Often a student from another
department will spice things up considerably.

It was a shock to go to Columbia as a graduate student after
Washington and Lee. Most graduate schools are enormously
large and rather impersonal; I’ve always liked the small school.
And as a teacher, I’d hate to give, as I would on a graduate
faculty, a course on the Habsburg monarchy from, say, 1780 to
1918 every year. I've been much happier teaching medieval
history for a while, then teaching the seventeenth century for a
while, then French Revolution and Napoleon for a while—just
moving around with a great deal of freedom. You don’t have
that as a graduate-school teacher. This year I'll be teaching
History 102, the second half of the European survey, for the
first time in four or five years, because another professor in
European history will be on leave. I genuinely look forward to
that.

 

 

William A. Jenks, head of the history department and William R. Kenan

Jr. Professor. BA, W&L; Ph.D., Columbia. Came to W&L 22 years ago.

Author: The Austrian Electoral Reform of 1907 (published 1950), Vienna:
and the Young Hitler (1960), Austria Under the Iron Ring (1965), Francis

Joseph and the Italians (1978). Fellowships: Fulbright; Social Science

Research Council; American Council of Learned Societies. Teaches

freshman and sophomore history; survey course in European civiliza-

tion, 1500-1789; the Renaissance; Islamic history; history of Imperial

Russia; history of Soviet Russia.

 

 

LOUIS W. HODGES
Professor of Religion

L., terms of my 18 years of teaching at Washington and Lee,
the most impressive and important single fact is that we see
ourselves, and indeed perform, as a teaching institution. I find
that this University does make good on its promise to be a
teaching school. We carry out research and we publish—more
than most faculties in colleges our size—but the fact is, we
receive our principal reward and our principal sense of
achievement from teaching.

Washington and Lee has an eloquent “statement of institu-
tional philosophy”; I suppose all colleges do. I imagine you are
familiar with ours. It is an unusual statement of ideals, but that
is not what is important about it. What is important about
Washington and Lee’s statement, in my own view, is that more
than any other place I’ve known, Washington and Lee comes
close to providing in actual fact the environment in which those
ideals can be pursued and achieved. This is the most impressive
fact about the strange place we are. It’s unusual, it seems to me,
for colleges to achieve what they claim in their statements of
philosophy they intend to achieve. That is one of the things
that keeps me impressed, and encourages me in my own teach-
ing role; that’s the kind of place where I personally want to
teach.

 

Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion. BA, Millsaps College; Ph.D.,
Duke. Came to W&L 18 years ago. Co-author: The Christian and His
Decisions: An Introduction to Christian Ethics (1969). Editor: Social Respon-
sibility: Journalism, Law, Medicine (series published annually since 1975).
Director, Society and the Professions program since 1974; co-teacher of
courses in biomedical ethics, ethics of journalism, and legal ethics.

21

 

THREE NEW TRUSTEES

Alumni Nominee Branch, ’58, South, ’51, and Swinarton, 750, Elected to Board

Three alumni—an Atlanta attorney
who was president of the Alumni
Association in 1976-77, a San Francisco
banking executive, and a New York
brokerage firm executive—have been
elected to the University Board of
‘Trustees.

The three are Thomas B. Branch
III, a 1958 B.A. and 1960 law graduate;
Jerry G. South, a 1954 economics
graduate who is president of BA
Mortgage and International Realty
Corp., a subsidiary of BankAmerica
Corp.; and Robert W. Swinarton, a 1950
summa cum laude graduate who is vice

chairman of Dean Whitter Reynolds Inc.

All three were elected to initial six-
year terms on the W&L Board at the
trustees’ regular October meeting. Each
will be eligible for re-election to one
additional six-year term.

Branch was nominated for Board
membership by vote of the membership
of the Alumni Association. He had been
elected to a three-year term on the
Alumni Board in 1974 and was elected
national president of the association for
the final year of his term.

 

Jerry G. South
22

 

 

A partner in the firm of Greene,
Buckley, DeRieux & Jones, he is
president and chairman of the executive
committee of the Lawyers Club of
Atlanta and is an active member of the
American, Georgia, and Atlanta bar
associations, the American Judicature
Society, the National Association of
Railroad Trial Counsel, and a wide
range of other professional and civic
organizations.

South joined Bank of America in
1958 and became counsel in its legal
department in November 1967. Five
months later he was named secretary
and counsel of that company and shortly
afterwards became secretary of the
parent firm, BankAmerica Corp.

He became vice president of Bank of
America in 1970 and was made vice
president and secretary of Bank of
America two years later. He assumed his
present position in January 1977.

After graduation from W&L, South

earned his law degree at Stanford

University. He is active in several
banking, lawyers’ and civic
organizations.

 

Thomas B. Branch IIT

 

South was elected to the alumni
board of directors in 1975 and was
treasurer of the national association in
1977-78.

Swinarton began his career with
Dean Whitter in 1950 after graduation
from W&L. He became municipal bond
manager in 1958, sales manager partner
in 1961, director of national research in
1963, and director of transaction
services, a position he still holds, in
1969. He was given additional
responsibilities as vice chairman of the
board in 1972.

He became a member of the board
of the National Association of Securities
Dealers (NASD) in 1974 and was
chairman in 1976. He has also been a
director of the NASD Automated
Quotations (NASDAQ) system since its
inception in 1976.

He has been a member of the
Federal National Mortgage Association’s
advisory committee and belongs to both
the Bond and Municipal Bond clubs of
New York City and to many other
professional and community
organizations.

 

Robert W. Swinarton

GAZETTE

Philip Morris Ties W&L’s Strength in the Liberal Arts to $100,000 Gift

Philip Morris Inc. has made a $100,000
capital gift to Washington and Lee
toward the cost of renovating
McCormick Library to become the new
home of the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics.

The gift was announced by Ross R.
Millhiser, vice chairman of the Virginia-
based corporation, jointly with W&L
President Robert E. R. Huntley.
Millhiser is the immediate past president
of the Virginia Foundation for
Independent Colleges, of which W&L is
a member institution, and Huntley is a
member of Philip Morris’s board of
directors.

Unlike business schools at almost any
other institution, Washington and Lee’s
incorporates two social science
departments, politics and economics,
with the academic disciplines of
commerce, public and business
administration, and accounting. The
W&L commerce division places strong
emphasis on combining the liberal arts
with a rigorous pre-professional
curriculum—a characteristic to which
Millhiser pointed in announcing the
Philip Morris grant. H

“The interests of American private
enterprise and American higher
education—particularly independent
higher education—are identical,”
Millhiser said. “They are mutually
dependent, and if either is to continue
its progress and continue serving the
American people, they must do it
together.

“We share Washington and Lee’s view
that any education—in business or
science or any other apparently
dissimilar field—which disregards the
liberal arts is an inadequate education.
Our own corporate experience has
shown time and time again that business
and the arts and humanities are
inseparable,” Millhiser said.

“This grant, then, recognizes
Washington and Lee’s distinguished
tradition of academic excellence and
service to the business sector and thus to
the nation. It also reflects Philip Morris’s
firm confidence that the course
Washington and Lee has charted as its
own educational program is the right
one, a course which assures that business
leaders in the future as in the past will
be richly educated in the liberal arts as
well as in their specialized fields of

professional interest—which is to say, in Lexington, published last year, and she is

short, that they will continue to receive working currently on a companion
excellent educations.” volume about Rockbridge County

The W&L commerce school was architecture.
established in 1905, and is the smallest
accredited unit of the American The first listing and evaluation of the
Association of Collegiate Schools of books contained in Liberty Hall
Business. In recent years about 75 Academy’s 18th-century library has been
percent of Washington and Lee’s published in the Virginia Magazine of
undergraduates have taken at least one —_ History and Biography. The article is by
course each year in the school, and 45 Betty Ruth Kondayan, head reference
percent of graduates last year earned and public-services librarian. Her
their degrees in commerce, economics research was based on a recently
or politics. discovered list of 101 titles in the library

of Washington and Lee’s predecessor
institution. Almost half the volumes,
Mrs. Kondayan notes, were on the topics
of religion, though a number of them

 

 

Faculty activity

The premiere performance of a new
composition by Robert Stewart,
professor of music, highlighted a
concert by the Paul Price Percussion
Ensemble in December. Stewart’s
composition is entitled Voiages for
Percussion and Piano, and was inspired by
accounts of Cartier’s exploration of the
St. Lawrence River.

Pamela Hemenway Simpson, assistant
professor of art history, presented a
research paper on the topic “Vernacular
and Provincial House Types in
Rockbridge County” this fall at the
annual meeting of the Southeast College
Art Conference in Little Rock. Area
architecture is among Dr. Simpson’s
several research interests; she is co-
author of The Architecture of Historic were by “nonconformist divines.”
English literature was the next most

 

Betty Ruth Kondayan

 

heavily represented type of holding
Leyburn fund grows identified on the book list, which she
traces tentatively to 1796—followed by
history, biography and travel as a single
category, then by language and classics.

Contributions from W&L alumni
continue to augment the scholarship
fund established in honor of Dr.

James G. Leyburn by three of his Roger B. Jeans, assistant professor of
former students at Yale University. Asian history, presented a paper entitled
Dr. Leyburn taught sociology at Yale “Chang Chun-mai’s Educational

from 1927 to 1947. He came to W&L Thought and Activities: A Case Study of
in 1947 as dean of the University, a Experiments with Private Universities
position he held for eight years, and [in China] During the Republican

taught sociology until his retirement Period” to the annual mid-Adanue

in 1970. He was one of W&L's most regional meeting of the Association for
inspiring teachers and active schol- Asian Studies this. falk.

ars. Additional contributions to the

Leyburn Scholarship Fund may be John M. McDaniel, assistant professor
sent to the W&L Development Of- of anthropology and director of the
fice. Liberty Hall archaeological excavation

 

 

under way at the University since 1974,

 

23

has been elected vice president of the
Virginia Council of Archaeologists.

John R. Handleman, assistant
professor of politics, is the author of a
research paper delivered at the annual
meeting of the Southern Political
Science Association this fall and an
article published in the journal Asian
Survey. The topic of both the paper and
the article is the role of multi-national
corporations in the formulation of
mainland China’s foreign policy.

Lawrence D. Gaughan, professor of
law, presented an analysis of “The
Implications of National Health

Insurance for the Financing of Marriage |

and Divorce Counseling” this fall to the
40th annual meeting of the National
Council on Family Relations.

 

 

Visiting lecturers

Speakers and performers who visited
Washington and Lee this fall included:

—Former U.S. Sen. James L. Buckley
(R-Con., N.Y.), for a Lee Chapel lecture,
co-sponsored by “Contact” and the 1980
Mock Republican Convention;

—U.S. Rep. M. Caldwell Butler (R-
Va.), whose district covers Lexington
and who received the honorary Doctor
of Law degree from the University last
spring, for class sessions and a public
question-and-answer forum, sponsored
by the School of Law;

—Dick Gregory, the nationally known
comedian and social activist, for a
lecture and reception, sponsored jointly
by the Student Association for Black
Unity (SABU) and the University Office
for Minority Affairs;

—Harold S. Gulliver, editor of the
Atlanta (Ga.) Constitution, for a lecture
entitled “Ethics and the Journalist,”
sponsored by the Society and the
Professions program;

—Prizewinning filmmaker and
producer Ed Emshwiller, for a
workshop and public lecture, sponsored
by the journalism department;

—A. Walton Litz, chairman of
Princeton University’s English
department, for a lecture entitled “The
Meaning of ‘Modernism,’ ” sponsored by
W&L’s chapter of Phi Beta Kappa;

—The 38-member Hampton Institute
Choir, for a concert of historical music,
including traditional black spirituals, co-
sponsored by SABU, the minority affairs
office and the fine arts department;

—Baritone Oscar McCullough, for a
performance of Schubert’s song cycle

24

Winterreise, sponsored by the W&L
Concert Guild;

—The Rev. Henry H. Rightor, retired
professor at Virginia Theological
Seminary, to speak on “The
Demoralization of the Law and the
Desocialization of Religion,” as the
inaugural lecture in a series sponsored
by the School of Law;

—Dr. Donald Gillin, professor of
history and head of the East Asian
studies department at Vassar College,
for a lecture, “Misconceptions: America
on China, China on America—Visual
Images of One Another in Their Media,
1900 to the Present,” sponsored by
W&L’s Asian studies program;

—Leo Damrosch, professor of English
at the University of Virginia and an
authority on Samuel Johnson, for a
lecture, “Freedom and the Self in the
Puritan Imagination,” sponsored by the
newly formed W&L English Club;

—Andrei Voznesensky, noted Russian
poet making his sixth tour of the United
States, for a dramatic reading from his
own works and for two receptions,
under the sponsorship of the Arthur
and Margaret Glasgow Endowment
Fund, established in 1960 to promote
“the art of expression by pen and
tongue’ ;

—Vassilis Vassilikos, Greek novelist
and journalist, author of Z, made into a
successful commercial motion picture,
for a lecture and reading, also
sponsored by the Glasgow Endowment;
and

—W. R. Carter, professor of
philosophy at North Carolina State
University, for a lecture, “The Life
History Principle: Am I Identical With
My Body?”, sponsored by the
philosophy department.

 

 

Scholarship established
in memory of Halstead, ’79

An endowed scholarship has been
established in the memory of Douglas C.

 

Our trustees in print

“Only Trigere kept me clothed
during this ghastly hiatus of sloppy,
falling-off clothes. The Paris show-
ings give me hope that this utterly
distasteful period of fashion will
soon be on the wane.”

—Mkrs. JAMES BLAND MARTIN
quoted in W (published by
Women’s Wear Daily),

Nov. 10-17, 1978.

 

 

 

Halstead, class of 1979, Washington and
Lee University. The scholarship fund
was established by his parents, Col. and
Mrs. Warren Halstead, of McLean, Va.

Douglas Halstead, born on June 2,
1957, was killed in a car accident while
riding as a passenger on Nov. 16, 1976,
in Arlington, Va. He had completed his
freshman year at W&L.

The Douglas C. Halstead Memorial
Scholarship will be awarded on the basis
of personal and academic merit, with
preference given to students from
Northern Virginia, particularly the
McLean area.

Endowed scholarships are created at
Washington and Lee in recognition of
gifts to endowment of $25,000 or more.

 

 

John W. Warner, ’49, Trustee,
elected to U.S. Senate

John W. Warner, a 1949 Washington
and Lee graduate and a member of the
University’s Board of Trustees since
1968, was elected U.S. Senator from
Virginia in November. He is a
Republican.

Warner defeated Andrew P. Miller
(whose father, the late Francis Pickens
Miller, ’14, was W&L’s first Rhodes
Scholar) by a vote that was so close that
it was not certified until almost four
weeks after the election. Warner’s mar-
gin of victory was 4,742 votes out of
1.2 million cast—less than 0.4 percent.
Miller has said he may seek a recount.

Warner received his B.S. degree in
engineering and physics. He also holds a
law degree from the University of
Virginia. The Senator-elect is the son of
another distinguished Washington and
Lee graduate, the late Dr. John Warner,
a physician who had received his B.A.
degree in 1903.

From 1955 until 1960, Warner was
an assistant U.S. Attorney for the
District of Columbia. He was a lawyer in
private practice in Washington at the
time of his election to the W&L Board.
He had been active in the 1960 and
1968 Presidential campaigns of Richard
Nixon, and in 1969 he was appointed
Undersecretary of the Navy. He became
Navy Secretary three years later. In
1974, President Ford named him to
head the national Bicentennial
Administration.

After the Bicentennial, he returned
to private life as a farmer in Middleburg
in northern Virginia. He is married to
the actress Elizabeth Taylor.

Warner had sought the GOP
Senatorial nomination last summer but

lost to former state party chairman
Richard Obenshain. The nominee died
in an airplane crash during the
campaign, however, and Warner was
subsequently tapped to succeed him as
the Republican candidate.

At the nominating convention,
Warner’s opposition had also included
former Gov. Linwood Holton—a
classmate and fraternity brother at
W&L. In 1970 Holton had become the
first Republican to win statewide office
in Virginia since Reconstruction.
Warner’s victory in November continued
the revivified GOP’s sweep of most
statewide elections ever since.

When he is sworn in in January,
among Warner’s colleagues—across the
aisle—will be J. Bennett Johnston, ’54,
Democratic Senator from Louisiana.

 

President’s mother;
Mrs. Huntley’s father

The mother of President Hunt-
ley and the father of Mrs. Huntley
died this fall.

Mrs. Elizabeth Royall Huntley of
Winston-Salem, N. C., died Nov. 19
after a long illness. She was the widow
of B. F. Huntley. In addition to Presi-
dent Huntley of W&L, she is sur-
vived by another son, Dr. Benjamin
F. Huntley Jr., a physician;in Win-
ston-Salem who attended ‘W&L in
1942-43 before going on to Duke
and Harvard, and by six grandchil-
dren.

A memorial service took place in
Winston-Salem.

Eldridge Hall Whitehurst of Vir-
ginia Beach, father of Mrs. R. E. R.
Huntley, died Oct. 21. He was the
retired vice president and general
manager of Curtis Bay Towing Co.
of Norfolk, a past director of the Vir-
ginia State Chamber of Commerce,
and former director and treasurer
of the Hampton Roads Maritime
Association, among many civic and
professional distinctions. In 1968 he
received the Hampton Roads For-
eign Commerce Club’s “Commerce
Builders” award.

In addition to his daughter Mrs.
Huntley, he is survived by his wife,
Mrs. Edith Winslow Whitehurst; two
sons, William A. of Virginia Beach
and Eldridge A. of Columbus, Ohio,
and eight grandchildren.

A funeral service took place in
Virginia Beach, and burial was in
Norfolk.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Homecoming and Fall Reunions, 1978

A

 

 

a

Some students were carried away by the festivities
at a Homecoming party at Zollman’s pavilion

Homecoming Queen Lynn Williams of Mary Balduin
College, representative of Sigma Alpha Epsilon

 

The Classes of 1933, 1943, 1948, 1958, and 1973 held reunions during Homecoming weekend, and
handshakes and cocktail conversation were the order of the day at this party on the Alumni House terrace.

 

Among those present for the 45th reunion of the Class of 1933: (first row) John D. Crowl, Nace R. Collins,
W.H.H. Wertz, Frank Calhoun, Copeland E. Adams, Gray Hume Jr.; (second row) John D. Copenhaver,
Dodd DeVan, Henry M. Bandy Jr., Wallace N. Tiffany, John A. Culley, Allen D. Symonds.

20

 

 

EDWARD F. TURNER JR.

Art is long and time is fleeting, said the
poet. I take this to mean that the arts of
men—those liberal arts that liberate us
from the fetters of ignorance and super-
stition, that illuminate the remote re-
cesses of the world we live in and delineate
man’s relationship to it—that these arts
transcend time. It has long been a hall-
mark of Washington and Lee that educa-
tion in the sciences has been regarded as
an integral part of this liberating process.
Dr. Edward F. Turner Jr.
Parmly Hall Dedication
October 17, 1975

Edward Felix Turner Jr., scholar,
teacher, researcher and author, was a
man of deep and enduring commit-
ments. He was devoted in full measure
to his students and to helping them
learn, not merely about academics but
about life itself. To his teaching he
brought consummate skill, compassion,
and dedication.

On Saturday, September’30, 1978,
Dr. Edward F. Turner Jr., professor of
physics at Washington and Lee and
head of the physics department since
1961, died of cancer in a Charlottesville
hospital. He was 58.

Dr. Turner joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1957—seven years
after receiving both B.A. and B.S. de-
grees from Washington and Lee and
three years after serving on the faculty
at George Washington University. (He
had served during World War II as an
infantry lieutenant with the 44th Divi-
sion in Europe. He was wounded three
times.)

Turner earned his M.S. degree in
physics from the Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology and his Ph.D. de-
gree in physics from the University of
Virginia.

He became a full professor at
Washington and Lee in 1959 and was
named head of the physics department
two years later.

Under his leadership, the depart-
ment of physics developed into a de-
partment with physical equipment and
a breadth of instruction virtually un-
paralleled in colleges the size of Wash-
ington and Lee. Yet, Turner was, per-

1920-1978

haps, most respected by his colleagues
for the excellence he demanded in his

students, while nurturing in them a love
of learning and a compassion for their
fellow human beings. His was devoted
to others, always giving his undivided
attention to a perplexed student or an
inquiring colleague. Whether working
with one or with dozens of people, his
thoroughness and his absorption in the
task at hand were unfailing.

His determined ambition was to be good:
a good scholar, a good teacher, a good
member of his family, a good Christian, a
good man. He worked tirelessly at these
objectives—and achieved them all.
Robert E. R. Huntley
Memorial Service
October 3, 1978

His commitment to undergraduate
education led to his pioneering study
of special problems and needs of college
libraries through his directorship in
1967-68 of a project entitled “A Study
of the Implications of Modern Tech-
nology for Small College Libraries.”

His other research interests includ-
ed computer technology, and as chair-
man of the University’s Computer
Committee he committed vast amounts
of time and talent to research on com-

 

puters as well as to inaugurate, develop
and insure the basic continuity of the
committee. He was also extensively in-
volved in the development of W&L’s
computer center.

In 1971-72, Dr. Turner was elected
president of the Virginia Academy of
Science, later becoming a Fellow of the
academy in 1975. He was active in the
American Physical Society, the Ameri-
can Association of Physics Teachers and
the American Association for Ad-
vancement of Science. He was a mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa and a former
president of the W&L chapter and of
numerous other honorary and _ pro-
fessional societies.

He was a deacon of Manly Memorial
Baptist Church in Lexington and was
active as a Sunday school teacher of
young adults.

The Washington and Lee com-
munity mourns the untimely death of
Dr. Turner, a dear friend and trusted
colleague.

“The longest life is a fleeting instant in
the spectrum of time. Measured in the
far less ephemeral terms of the quality of
life, Dr. Turner may have outlived us
all.”

Robert E. R. Huntley

Memorial Service

October 3, 1978

 

26

 

by Gray Coleman, ’79

THE IRREPRESSIBLE MRS. M.

For Her, Hooking Kids on Books Beats Playing Bridge and Drinking Sherry

 

 

Betty Munger in a rare moment of repose in her Bookstore office.

She arrives for her interview in a
flurry of overcoats, order forms, and
lunch-hour purchases. In rapid-fire
fashion she answers questions from sales
assistants, places a special book order for
a faculty member, and greets a party of
prospective students—all in something

under three minutes. The interviewer
follows in her wake, stunned by the
activity. And just as he feels she’s
forgotten their appointment, she swings
on him with an open smile. “Would you
like me to put on some makeup or
something?” she asks, smoothing down

her hair. “I just finished swimming 25
laps. Now I’m ready to get down to
business.”

Betty Munger is W&L’s Bookstore
manager—and a dozen things more.
Always in the forefront of campus
discussion, her opinions are many,
varied, and emphatically spoken.

A graduate of Bennington College
and a native Northerner, her road to
W&L was a long one. “Of course you
can ask me my age,” she laughs. “I can
remember the Armistice of World War I;
I was born in 1916. At college I was a
pre-med—if you can believe it—but I
had no money, so I ended up as a lab
technician at Harvard Medical School.”

There she met Dr. Robert Munger, a
recent graduate of Tulane Medical
School, and began a career that has
occupied her to the present: “answering
the phone for the family physician.” His
work finally took them back to New
Orleans, where they lived in the heart of
the French Quarter.

“It is a beautiful city, but Bob wanted
a place where he could be a real family
doctor,” Mrs. Munger remembers. “An
academic community was what we
decided on—preferably one with hills,
because the flatlands and the heat of
New Orleans were killing this Yankee
wife. We just got in the car and stopped
in dozens of little towns along the East
coast. Finally, we got to Lexington,
where Bob had spent two years as a
W&L student. We returned soon after,
knowing that Lexington was the place
for us.”

The Mungers were settled in
Lexington by 1941, and this doctor’s
wife proceeded to take the town by
storm. When she arrived, the Lexington
public library consisted of three shelves
in McCrum’s Drug Store; in response to
this challenge, she formed a library
committee—and suddenly stood at the
head of the Botetourt-Rockbridge
library system, now located in a

 

Gray Coleman is editor-in-chief of the Ring-
tum Phi. He was elected to Phi Beta Kappaasa
junior and is Louisiana’s first Harry S. Truman
Scholar.

27

 

$100,000 building. Meanwhile, Mrs.
Munger founded the local chapter of
the League of Women Voters. Today,
she can’t even count the number of
organizations of which she has been
head. “I consider myself a real
professional in this respect. I really have
served on more darned panels.”

Her children, who grew up during
these years, are (to put it mildly) a
remarkable group. The oldest, Robert
Jr., is another prominent physician; the
second son, Chris, is a Hollywood
director whose most recent project was
the Grizzly Adams television series. And
finally there is, of course, Sally Munger
Mann, Washington and Lee’s award-
winning photographer, who was “sort of
a P.S.,” 10 years younger than the boys.

Mrs. Munger seems as stunned by her
family’s success as the rest of us. (“I get
the feeling that they did it in spite of
me.”) But she handles this, like all
matters, with aplomb: “I’m as surprised
as you are. And they’re all such great
guys. The wonderful thing about kids is
that when they grow up, they become
your friends.”

A fortunate series of coincidences
brought Betty Munger into direct
contact with Washington and Lee. She
remembers that “the University, as a
result of its Self-Study in 1966, gave top
priority to creating an honest-to-
goodness bookstore. The faculty
especially pushed for it as part of the
vital non-classroom teaching facilities—
along with computers, laboratories, the
theatre.”

An extension was built onto the
Supply Store, and in late 1966 the
Bookstore opened with an inventory of

$25,000. A law professor’s wife had been

hired to manage the new store, but
when her husband accepted a visiting
lectureship the following spring, the
University began looking for a new
manager.

“T was interviewed by nine faculty
members—most of whom I’d known

since they were little boys,” Mrs. Munger

laughs. “When they asked why a 50-
year-old woman would want the job, I
told them, ‘My children are grown and

28

gone, I have a lot of life left to fill, and
managing a bookstore sure would beat
playing bridge and drinking sherry.’ ”

Betty Munger’s commitment to W&L
has grown steadily with her years of
service. From the beginning, she has
brought in numerous speakers and
given autograph parties; among her
guests have been the likes of James
Dickey, Art Buchwald, and Howard
Nemerov. “Truman Capote stood us up
one afternoon,” she says, and many
students still remember her unexpected
arrival at another party for Capote later
that same afternoon. Arms filled with
books, she demanded that he make
amends to her customers. He signed
them on the spot.

She has been given the “wonderful
freedom” to keep the Bookstore filled
with interesting (and often valuable)
ooks. Five thousand titles or more are
stocked at any given time, an amazing
total for a campus so small.
Responsibility for the textbook
department and the campus record shop
also passed to Mrs. Munger in 1977.
(And as if that weren’t enough, she has

 

Poet-novelist James Dickey and Betty discuss poetry
... among other things.

been one of the Ring-tum Phi’s most
faithful contributors of late, in her
column “Eye and Ear.”)

In spite of all that activity, Mrs.
Munger’s greatest fame on campus
comes as a result of her outspoken
opinions on the widest imaginable range
of subjects. The W&L faculty: “Their
diversity and willingness to offer dozens
of new courses is our greatest strength.”
The Honor System: “Paraphrasing
Churchill, it’s the worst form of student
government, except for every other
form that’s been invented. Honor is an
internal thing. It comes down to the
individual’s decision.” Coeducation: “I
feel we discriminate against half the
population. I miss the female presence
here.” Such honorary organizations as
Who’s Who Among Women, to which
she was elected some years ago: “I told
them they must be hard up for Virginia
women if they got down to me. I also
didn’t appreciate the $48 bill for their
mock-parchment certificate.”

Interested in all phases of W&L life,
Mrs. Munger has won quite a following
on the campus. One anonymous official
states: “She’s the only parlor-radical and
ERA zealot whom I could ever truly love.
Betty is one of the few liberals who likes
individual people as much as she likes
humankind.”

What is most refreshing is that she
doesn’t take her situation too seriously.
“How could I?” she asks. “After all, I’ve
been around here so long that I can
remember auditing a literature course
and sitting between those two nice
students Robert Huntley and Roger
Mudd.”

Betty Munger is, quite simply, an
exceptional case. She sees her job as
being “to hook kids on books, to help
develop in them a habit of recreational
reading which they will keep all through
life.”

But above all, she is a hell of a good
friend. “You know,” she says, “I always
knew I liked books and people, but I
never expected the wonderful ‘extra’ of
the great friendships I’ve found on
campus.”

Mrs. M., the pleasure is all ours.

by Bill Schnier

Sports Information Director |

FALL SPORTS ROUNDUP

The Football Generals Wind Up 2-8, But Watch Tailback Atkinson Fly

The 1978 Washington and Lee fall
sports season is now history and the
winter season is occupying center stage.

The football Generals finished their
season with a 2-8 won-loss record in the
first year under head coach Gary Fallon.
W&L was fourth in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference race. After an 0-6
beginning, W&L won their next two
games over the University of the South
14-13 and Bridgewater 23-12 before
dropping a one point loss to Emory &
Henry 18-17 and a two point decision at
Georgetown University 27-25 in the
season finale. The Generals were only
three points away from a 4-6 season.

Coach Fallon saw many positive signs
watching his young team from the first
game at James Madison through the
finale at Georgetown. The positive and
winning attitude of all the team
members was evident throughout the
season, and the hope is that the
groundwork laid in 1978 will begin to
pay dividends next fall.

The highlight of the season was the
play of junior tailback Stewart Atkinson.
The Atlanta native nearly rewrote the
entire W&L football record book with
his play this season. In three seasons
including his freshman year when he
was only a part-time starter, Atkinson
has gained 2,164 yards which is W&L’s
all-time career high by over 700 yards.
He is the only W&L back ever to rush
for over 100 yards five games in a row,
which he accomplished during the final
five games of this season, including a
season high 169 in the win at
Bridgewater. His 928 yards this season
(688 of them coming in the last five
games) is a new single season high as is
his 198 carries. The junior also holds the
career records for touchdowns by
rushing, 16, and career carries, 509. His
215 yards against Bridgewater in 1977 is
a University single game high. The only
feat Atkinson did not achieve this season
was to rush for 1,000 yards, and he still
has 1979 to accomplish that.

Freshman quarterback Rich
Hachenburg stepped in to lead the team
in the fourth game of the year and
completed over 50 percent of his passes

 

Record-rusher Stewart Atkinson

on the season. His 18 of 27 effort for 248
yards and one touchdown against
Georgetown was the best W&L
quarterback performance of the season.
Senior split end Rich Wiles completed
his W&L career with 112 catches, third
on the all-time receiving list.

A total of 14 seniors will graduate
including tri-captains Car] Folcik at
linebacker, Don Crossley at free safety
and George Berry at offensive tackle. A
very strong nucleus of young,
experienced players does return,
however, making the outlook for 1979 a
bright one. The W&L players have
elected Atkinson, and rising seniors Syd
Farrar, a punter-tight end, and Scott
Smith, an offensive guard, as 1979 tri-
captains.

SOCCER

The soccer Generals completed their
season with a 3-8-2 overall record and a
fifth place finish in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference. W&L’s three wins
came over excellent soccer teams in
Virginia Tech and Richmond, both
Division I schools, and Dixie Conference
champion Virginia Wesleyan.

W&L played excellent defense
throughout the season but had difficulty
putting the ball in the net. The Generals
were unable to score more than two
goals in any game all season.
Defensemen Homer Bliss and Dave
McCollum played well as did goalie
Kevin Carney. Sophmore Mark Turner
led the team with two goals and two
assists for six points, while seniors
Howie Collier and Bill Stone each had a
pair of goals.

The soccer team has elected rising
seniors Doug Dorsey, Dana Samuelson,
and Doug Seitz as 1979 tri-captains.

CROSS COUNTRY

The 1978 cross country team finished
their dual meet season at 7-8-1 and fifth
in the ODAC. Co-captains Richard Bird,
a junior, and Bob Bates, a senior, were
W&L’s top runners throughout the
course of the season. Bird narrowly
missed qualifying for the national champ-
ionships finishing ninth in the District
ITI qualifying meet. The top eight
individuals are eligible for the national
competition.

WATER POLO

W&L’s water polo team put together a
15-9 overall record against the best
competition in the eastern United States,
in this, its second varsity season. The
Generals finished an excellent second
place in the 10-team Southern League
behind champion Richmond. W&L
finished ahead of Duke, East Carolina,
North Carolina, James Madison, VMI,
Georgia Southern, George Washington
and Lynchburg.

By virtue of their second place league
finish, W&L represented the southeast
in the Eastern Intercollegiate
Championships at Brown University,

29

FALL SPORTS ROUNDUP

losing to host Brown, Ohio State and
MIT. W&L was second in the Virginia
State Championships which it hosted
over Parents’ Weekend. Senior Keith
Romich led W&L in 1978 with 78 goals
in 24 games and Biff Martin was not far
behind with 74. Romich and
defenseman Mike Foley were named to
the All Southern League first-team while
Martin was selected as an alternate.
Romich, Martin and Drew Pillsbury
were named to the all-state team.

WINTER SPORTS
The 1978-79 winter sports season
began on November 18 when the

wrestlers participated in the James
Madison Takedown Tournament and
the swimmers hosted the JMU Dukes in
Lexington. The wrestlers are defending
ODAC champions and are looking to
improve on their 1977-78 record of 9-8.
The swimmers were tenth in the nation
in Division III last year, their fourth
straight season in the top 10. They also
finished their dual meet season at 10-1,
the best record ever for a W&L
swimming team. Four returning All-
Americans form a very strong nucleus
for the 1978-79 mermen.

The basketball Generals, defending
ODAC champions and winners of 45 of

56 games during the past two seasons,
opened the year over Thanksgiving
weekend, hosting York and Allentown
Colleges. W&L is defending their
conference title without the “franchise”
of the past two years, All-American Pat
Dennis, ’78, who recently had a tryout
with the Boston Celtics of the NBA.

Coach Verne Canfield thinks his team
has the potential to win over 20 games
again this season and also be selected for
the NCAA tournament, which would be
W&L’s fourth appearance in the last five
years. Seniors Mike Wenke, Dave
Leunig and Ardith Collins will be asked
to lead the 1978-79 Generals.

 

BASKETBALL Jan. 20—Citadel Invitational «0.0.00... eee Away
Nov. 4a Vora GS cee HOME _ Jan. 27—W&L College Invitational ................ HOME
Nov. P5—AI]ENtOWN ........ceececescseeeceeeeeeceeeeeeeenee HOME (Catawba, Davidson, Eastern Mennonite,
Nov. 29—Hampden-Sydney .................cseeeeeeees HOME Hampden-Sydney, Lynchburg, Longwood,
Dec. TA VETELO 650i. ek iT. aa HOME Pfeiffer, W&L)
Dec. 5B—Lynchburg. ....... ee eeeeeeeeeeseeeoeeeneeenees HOME Feb. 1—Liberty Baptist «10.0... HOME
Dec. 19-20—Rose-Hulman Tournament ................ Away Feb. 3—Pembroke State Brave Invitational .....Away
(Terre Haute, Ind.) Feb. 7—Hampden-Sydney, Longwood ............ Away
Jan. 5-6—Allegheny College Tournament ......... Away Feb. 9—Davidson 000... eeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeaes Away
(Meadville, Pa.) Feb. LO—Catawba ........ccccccccssccssscceceeesceneeeeeeeees Away
Jan. 9—Castleton State, ...........ccccccccceeesesstreees HOME Feb. 15—James Madison .........-s:sseseeseresereeeeees HOME
Jan. 12-13—11th Annual W&L Invitational ........ HOME Feb. 20—ODAC Championships ..............:::c08 Away
(Transylvania, Ursinus, Maryville, W&L) (Lynchburg)
Jan. 16—Hampden-Sydney ........:ccccseeeeeneee Away Feb. 23-24—NCAA Eastern Regional .............:++++. Away
Jan. 18—Eastern Mennonite 2.0.0.0... Away Qualifying Tournament
Jan. 20—Emory & Henry .........ccccccccceeeeeteees HOME Mar. l-3—NCAA Division III Championships ...Away
Jan. 25—-GettySDu rg oo. c cocci cede ecesheheremamete st HOME (Humboldt State, Arcata, Calif.)
Jan. 27—Bridgewater ..........sccceesseeeeesseeeeeeeseeees Away
Jan. 30—Clinch Valley .....ccccccccccseceseseseseeeeeeees HOME INDOOR TRACK & FIELD
Feb. I—Lynchburg ou... cece ee eeeeeeeeeeeeeees Away Feb. B—VMI Relays... eeececscsseccsesseeeeeeeeeeeeeees VMI
Feb. 3—Randolph-Macon ..........:ceeseeeeeeeeeees HOME Feb. 10—Lynchburg ........ ee G shesuerdeesedegecsss Away
Feb. 8—Emory 8 Hemry ......cceececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees Away Feb. 24—-ODAC Championships ..............:caceees Away
Feb. 10O—Bridgewater ............cccccccecscceseeeeeeeees HOME (Lynchburg)
Feb. 13—Eastern Mennonite ............:ccccceeees HOME Mar. 3—Lynchburg Relays .................0:0cseeeeeeees Away
Feb. L7—Ma ryville .0..........cccccssscssesseceevsesevsnneeoees Away
Feb. 19—Oogelthorpe foie caccerscesenstenseconete Away SWIMMING
Feb. 22-24—ODAC Championship Tournament ...Away Nov. 18—James Madison .............ccceeeeesseeeeeeeees HOME
(Bridgewater, Va.) Dec. 2—RichMnd. ...........ccceeeeeeeecceeeeeeeeeeeeeees HOME
Mar. 1-3—NCAA Regionals .........:cceeceererereerens TBA Dec. 6— Virginia Tech ...........:ccccceeeeseeeeeeeeees HOME
Mar. 9 or 1LO—NCAA Quarterfinals 0... eee TBA Dec. 26-Jan. 6—Swimming Hall of Fame ..........0e Away
Mar. 16-17—NCAA Division III Championships ...Away (Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.)
(Rock Island, Ill.) Jan. 13—George Washington .............ccccccccceeeees Away
Jan. 19—Morris Harvey ..........cccccccccccseseeeeeeees HOME
WRESTLING Jan. ZO—Towson State 2.0.0... ceceeeececeeseeeeeeeeeeeees VMI
Nov. 18—James Madison University .................. Away Jan. 27—William 8 Mary ......ccccecceeessseeeeeeeeeeeees Away
Takedown Tournament Feb. 10—Old Dominion, VML ....................006 HOME
Nov. 29—Lynchburg ......ee ee eeeeeeeeeeeeenees HOME Feb. 17—UNC-Wilmington, Virginia ................ Away
Dec. 2—W&L INVITATIONAL ........ HOME Commonwealth
(Maryville, G. Mason, JMU, Liberty (Wilmington, N. C.)
Baptist, York, VMI, Campbell, W&L) Feb. 22-24—Virginia State Championships ............ Away
Dec. BV Merce oie cegteccccsssnsenseseumcataednevens HOME (Blacksburg, Va.)
Jan. 13—Duke, George Washington ............... HOME Mar. 15-17—NCAA Division III National ............... Away
Jan. 17—FEastern Mennonite ...............::eeee HOME Championships at SUNY/Geneseo

30

by Phil Timp, ’79

MIKE WENKE:

DYNAMO

On the Court and Off, He Wins Respect for His Intensity and Leadership

His coach calls him “twerp,” says he’s
a nut but still thinks the world of him.
‘Teammates respect him for his
leadership on the basketball court. And
it appears the entire Washington and
Lee student body is proud to know Mike
Wenke.

He’s now in his fourth year at W&L,
and you just don’t hear anything bad
about the 5-foot-9-inch, 145-pound
package of perpetual energy. He says he
lives his life with intensity, trying to
share bits and pieces of it with anyone
he can—and he seems to savor every
minute of each day.

On the court, Mike’s scrappy frame,
seemingly swallowed up by an oversized
W&L basketball uniform, is in constant
motion as he dogs an opposing guard
and forces him to take a hurried shot or
make a bad pass. As a student, he is
equally diligent with his studies, working
hard to maintain a 3.6 average and
hoping for acceptance into law school.
And as a dorm counselor, one of the
most prestigious student positions on
campus, Wenke stresses to the 20 or so
freshmen under his care the importance
of finding moments of relaxation away
from the grind of academic pressure at
the small liberal arts school.

“T love counseling the freshmen; I
love this kind of responsibility,” Mike
says, a smile broadening under a thick,
black mustache. “I thrive on
responsibility, I guess, and I try to do
my best at whatever I try. This is
something my parents always told me to
do,” Wenke states with obvious pride in
his voice.

Mike is also genuinely interested in
people. He craves attention from anyone
who'll give him a minute or two to get
wound up, and his vigor and vitality
during the conversation most often wins
him a friend.

Wenke has defined his role in life as a
leader, as the guy in command. And he
began filling his role early in life. He
always took it upon himself to be in
command of situations and have others

 

Phillip J. Timp is a senior journalism major
from Abingdon, Va.

 

Mike Wenke, scrappy “Twerp”

look up to him—or at least look at him.

As a youngster, with four brothers
and five sisters growing up in suburban
Philadelphia, Mike sometimes had
trouble getting attention from mom and
dad. Consequently, other people, most
often strangers, would be subjected to
large and unexpected doses of the
fearless kid.

As soon as he began to walk, Mike was
wandering away from his Glenolden,
Pa., home, leaving his diapers on the
front steps. A constant attention seeker,
Wenke stole from other picnic baskets
when the family met in a park for the
annual parish gathering.

In the image of Dennis-the-Menace,
Mike was the kid who'd go up to anyone
and begin jabbering, who'd pull Santa
Claus’ beard off his chin, and who’d
snoop through the insurance salesman’s
briefcase while the other Wenke
children hid under the kitchen table
fearing the intruder.

At five, he visited one of his sister’s
classes and proceeded to dominate and
almost destroy the classroom. He
perched himself on the instructor’s desk
and spent the next hour “teaching” the
third graders everything he knew. His
sister, meanwhile, had bolted from the
room in embarrassment and in tears.

Mike claims all he wanted was to get
involved. He didn’t want to be left out.
Wenke filled his Cardinal O’Hara
High School days with diversity, which
included participation in activities
ranging from athletics to drama to

student government.

Mike concentrated on basketball in
high school and forgot about baseball, a
primary interest in grade school. Using
his quickness and his brains, the
sparkplug of the high school team
earned all-district honors and won the
“Unsung Hero” award from his
classmates. But school was much more
than simply activities and books for
Mike Wenke.

He began realizing the importance of
giving attention rather than receiving it
all the time. He began to feel a sense of
responsibility for other people.

“T like when people come to me and

_ask if they can lean on me,” Mike

reflects. And it’s doubtful he ever turns
anyone away.

Although Wenke enjoyed success
throughout high school, he was to reach
greater heights at Washington and Lee.
Head basketball coach Verne Canfield, a
master at detecting a ballplayer’s
strengths and weaknesses, was
immediately impressed by Wenke’s
hustle and dogged determination to
win—whether it was a one-on-one match
after practice or an Old Dominion
Athletic Conference game against rival
Lynchburg College.

Canfield took Mike under his wing

_and began to mold him into the point

guard who would lead the Generals to
three successive ODAC championships.
Canfield clearly defined Wenke’s role as
the point guard—he was the deft ball
handler, the leader and signal caller on
the court, and the guy who was)
supposed to steady the team in tight,
pressure-packed games.

Wenke responded well to the
pressures applied by his coach so early
in his college career, but he wasn’t
flawless. He admits to sometimes letting
his emotional intensity override rational
basketball thought. Mike recalls one play
in particular his freshman year that

31

MIKE WENKE

exemplified his extremely intense and
emotional court play.

With time running out on the clock
and W&L behind by a point, Wenke
stole a pass and converted a layup,
putting the Generals up by one. He says
he then became hyper, lost his head and
committed a foul by diving after a loose
ball. Fortunately for Mike and the
Generals, W&L hung on to win the
game.

And this wasn’t the only time Mike
could have played the role of the goat if
luck hadn’t been on his side that initial
year of college ball. “After ’'d make a
big basket, I’d come down the court and
I was just too intense,” Wenke says in a
hurried, excited voice. “I’d come back
on defense and kill the guy I was
guarding if he had the ball. I’d just
clobber him. I was crazy. I was so up I
couldn’t think!” ,o

A year of experience on the court and
what Mike calls maturity followed him
into his sophomore season. Mental
mistakes occurred with much less
regularity for Wenke, and the Generals
thrived on the backcourt duo of Pat
Dennis with his blistering jump shot and
the little point guard dishing out assists.
The team that year had its best record
ever, 23-5, and were ranked fourth
nationally among Division III schools.
Wenke contributed heavily with a school
record 196 assists, breaking Doug
Clelan’s single season record by a
margin of 74 assists.

In his sophomore season, Wenke
emerged as the real team leader, and
the terms “Wenke” and “winning” easily
became interchangeable when W&L
basketball was mentioned.

As Canfield saw fit, Wenke was given
additional responsibilities his junior
year, such as trying to sell the basketball
program to interested high school
seniors and calling most of the offensive
plays on the court. Canfield says the
added pressures were good for Wenke
because “this is when he operates at 100
percent efficiency.”

Mike’s teammates increased the
pressure on him in his senior year by
naming him captain—the only time

32

 

Wenke sends up a quickie.

W&L teams have not chosen co-captains
in recent years. This reflects on Mike’s
leadership ability and confidence others
have in him.

Teammates Rob Smitherman, Pete
Farrell and Carby Hoy all mention
Wenke’s leadership role first when
attempting to describe the spirited and
devoted General.

New assistant coach Jim Casciano,
admitting that he didn’t know much
about Mike prior to the first practice
session Oct. 16, sees him as the epitome
of the type of player W&L “probably
tries to get to play for them.” Casciano,
also from the Philadelphia area, has the
highest respect for Wenke already,
calling him “another coach on the
court.”

A man who’s known Mike for three
full years, W&L Sports Information
Director Bill Schnier is impressed with
Wenke’s endless determination to win.
“T’ve never seen a player try harder to
give that extra effort,” Schnier says.
“There are not many athletes at W&L as
enjoyable as Mike.”

Overshadowed by All-American Pat
Dennis last year, Wenke nevertheless
had by far his best season and
consistently performed his role with

crisp, exact passes to an open teammate
breaking to the bucket for an easy layup.
In fact, he did it so well, he shattered his
record by over 60 assists. The Generals
enjoyed another fine season, with a 22-6
record and a trip to the finals of the
NCAA Eastern Regional Tournament.

Excited about the prospects for a
good season upcoming, Wenke talks
about the competitive but close feeling
that exists among the 14 players on this
year’s team.

“We're all friends, like a fraternity—
but there’s lots of competition too,”
Wenke says. “Like two or three guys are
after my position now, and if I let up,
someone’s going to get it. But I know
that I’m never going to let up, so if
someone does get my job, it’s because
he’s a better ballplayer than I am. It’s
not that I didn’t hustle and go 100
percent.”

Mike has as much respect for the
eight returning lettermen this year as
they have for him. “Every one of the
guys who played here last year is a
leader, and they’re all showing it in a
little different way,” Wenke says. He
goes on about the “total determination”
put forth by senior center Ardith Collins
during practice, and Dave Leunig’s
willingness to play on two very weak
knees. Wenke points out the total
absence of animosity among the
ballplayers. He believes a team can only
be successful when the boys give 110
percent to help each other on the court.

“T’ve heard that other teams have
disunity. But not us,” Wenke nods
defiantly. “We’re a team, which is why
we win. .. and that’s a great feeling.”

Mike preaches learning from others
and helping them in return. And he has
been just such an example with his
diverse schedule at Washington and
Lee.

As student manager at the dining hall
and a member of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity, Mike says he stays in contact
with 75 percent of the student body—a
student body he thinks is great. He says
he’s learned from them, and they’ve
certainly profited by knowing Mike
Wenke.

CHAPTER NEWS

 

 

  

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM—Ross Hersey, ’40, chapter president; Dr.
Hansford Thomas Jr., 31, with freshmen Thomas Thomas, John Wells,

 

68, and Mrs. Stowe.

Michael Sokolowski, and Dr. Randolph Shields, ’32, vice president.

 

AUGUSTA-ROCKINGHAM: A
picnic, sponsored by the chapter to
welcome three entering freshmen from
Augusta and Rockingham counties, took
place on Aug. 13 at the home of Dr.
Randolph Shields Jr., 32, chapter vice
president. Chapter president, Ross
Hersey, ’40, welcomed the guests. Dr.
Hansford Thomas Jr., ’31, attended with
his son, one of the three entering
freshmen. On Sept. 9 a small group of
area alumni and guests attended a
cocktail-buffet at the Spottswood
Country Club in Harrisonburg. The
occasion was a pep rally prior to the
Washington and Lee football game
against James Madison University. The
arrangements were made by Bill Gunn,
"42, and Dick Sloan, ’42. President
Huntley and Mrs. Huntley headed a
group of University representatives
including three coaches wives: Mrs.
Fallon, Mrs. Williams, and Mrs. Miller.
Also attending were Leroy C. (Buddy)
Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni secretary,
and Mrs. Atkins, and William C.
Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary, and
Mrs. Washburn.

CHARLOTTE. Area alumni and
guests gathered with local Washington

BUFFALO—Bob Priddy, ’67; Stewart Epley, 49, development associate;
Joel Kocen, ’59, ’61L, Mrs. Kocen, and Dr. Jack Freeman, ’59.

 

 

~

and Lee students on Aug. 16 to welcome
entering freshmen from Charlotte and
their parents. The reception took place
at the home of Alan Lee, ’69, chapter
president. A brief business meeting was
held to announce the chapter officers
for 1979. Elected were: Gary Murphy,

-’70, president; Lat Purser III, ’73, vice

president; Tom Gillespie, ’72, secretary;
and Henry A. Harkey, ’71, treasurer.
Assistant alumni secretary, Buddy
Atkins, 68, and Mrs. Atkins were guests
of the chapter.

BUFFALO. Alumni in western New
York state met Aug. 20 at the Nichols
School for a lunch given by Robert B.
Priddy, 67, and Joel E. Kocen, ’59, ’61L.
Assistant alumni secretary, Buddy
Atkins, 68, showed slides of current
campus scenes. Special guests included
Bryan Kocen, ’82, and E. Stewart Epley,
49, development associate for the
Northeastern United States.

COLUMBIA. The Palmetto chapter of
Washington and Lee alumni held their
annual reception for area freshmen on
Aug. 22. The home of Mr. and Mrs.
Morris Lumpkin, parents of Larry
Lumpkin, ’76, was the site of the

CHARLOTTE—Gary Murphy, ’70, new chapter president; Harold Stowe,

COLUMBIA—Larry Lumpkin, 76, and John Folsom, 76, Palmetto chapter
president, at the meeting at the home of Mr. and Mrs. Morris Lumpkin.

 

  

 

gathering. Chapter president John
Folsom welcomed the six young men
from Columbia, who continue the steady
flow of students from South Carolina to
W&L. Guests for the meeting included
development associate, John Hollister
and Mrs. Hollister and Buddy Atkins,
68, assistant alumni secretary. The
alumni discussed plans being developed
for the exhibition of the Reeves
Porcelain collection and the Louise
Herreshoff paintings together for the
first time at the Columbia Museum in
November.

CUMBERLAND VALLEY. A
reception for nine current students and
four entering freshmen took place at the
Bavarian Inn in Shepherdstown, W. Va.,
on Aug. 24. Arrangements were made
by chapter president, John Hoke, ’60,
and his wife, Donna. Hoke also presided
at the meeting. Charles Beall, 56,
presented the report of the nominating
committee and the following officers
were elected: R. Noel Spence, ’56, 58L,
president; John H. Tisdale, ’74L, vice
president; and James B. Crawford III,
67, °72L, secretary-treasurer. Elected
directors were: John Hoke; Roger Perry,
‘D4L; Judge Robert E. Clapp Jr., ’30;

33

 

CHAPTER NEWS

   
  

Hoke.

SSS

PHILADELPHIA—Ned Coslett, ’70, chapter president, with Nim McCane,

72; Mrs. Bruce Phillips, and Bruce Phillips, ’73L.

oh
Howard Kaylor, ’50, 52L; and Mason
Hendrickson, ’44. Present for the
occasion and representing the ~
University were John Duckworth, ’71,
staff associate for the development
office and William Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary.

MARTINSVILLE. The Southside
Virginia chapter of Washington and Lee
alumni conducted a dinner meeting on
Aug. 25 at the Chatmoss Club in
Martinsville. Area freshmen and their
parents were honorees at the meeting
which was arranged by Buddy Eanes,
54. Chapter president Victor Millner,
54, ’60L, welcomed the guests and
introduced the speakers for the evening.
Development associate, John
Duckworth, ’71, and assistant alumni
secretary, Buddy Atkins, ’68, made very
brief remarks about the financial state of
the University and the goals of the
Alumni Association. Lewis John, ’58,
dean of students, spoke about the
academic state of W&L and the future
of the University in the face of national
trends. Mrs. John was also a guest at the
meeting.

NEW ENGLAND. The home of Mr.
and Mrs. Horace Gooch, ’31, in

34

 

EK SS SS

CUMBERLAND VALLEY—Mrs. Robert Clapp and Judge Robert Clapp, MARTINS VILLE—Doug Frith, ’57L, with Vic Millner, ’54, ’60L,
30, talk at Shepherdstown, W. Va., meeting with John Hoke, ’60, and Mrs.

x

NEW ENGLAND—Mark McLaughlin, 82, and Nate Lovell, ’82, are

   
   

president of the Southside Virginia chapter, at the meeting in Martinsville.

greeted at freshman reception by senior Shaun Levesque, ’79.

Worcester, Mass., was the setting for a
reception for entering freshmen from
the area and their parents on Aug. 25.
William Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary, presented a series of colored
campus slides. A question and answer
period followed with a number of
upperclassmen giving advice to the
freshmen. Stewart Epley, ’49, University
staff associate for the New England
area, was also present with his wife,
Nancy.

PHILADELPHIA. The annual
summer picnic of the Washington and
Lee alumni in the Philadelphia area took
place on Aug. 29. Chapter president,
Ned Coslett, ’70, gave the party at his
family’s home in Media, Pa. He was
assisted by John Kelly, ’66, ’69L. A large
group of alumni and guests gathered to
welcome several freshmen from the area
and their parents. University Trustee,
James M. Ballengee, ’48L, was also
present.

MONTGOMERY. Many alumni and
guests gathered at the Montgomery
Country Club on Aug. 30 to meet and
honor incoming freshman Alan S.
Kendrick, and his parents. Mike
Jenkins, ’64, president of the chapter,

 

 

acted as master of ceremonies. John C.
Hollister, 58, of Atlanta, who is a staff
associate of the University Board of
Trustees, spoke briefly of Phase II of
the development campaign. Also
attending was William Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary, who made remarks
about Washington and Lee and
presented color slides of the campus.

NEW YORK. Chapter officers and
other alumni attended a reception for
40 incoming freshmen and their parents
at the Metropolitan Club in Manhattan
on Aug. 30. Special guests for the
occasion were Dr. and Mrs. Louis W.
Hodges. Dr. Hodges, professor of
religion at Washington and Lee, was
guest speaker. Jay Blumberg, a junior at
W&L, commented about student
activities and the honor system. Also
attending from the University and
taking part in the program was Farris
Hotchkiss, ’58, director of development,
who reported on some of the physical
changes at W&L and emphasized the
availability of faculty advisors and their
counseling to students. John Ellis, 56,
president of the chapter, concluded the
program. On Oct. 27 the alumni of the
New York area gathered at the
University Club in Manhattan for one of

   
  

$

and President Huntley, ’50.

ye
the largest luncheon functions on
record. John Ellis presided atthe
luncheon and expressed his -'
appreciation to the Trustees and the
representatives of the college for the
opportunity of meeting with the New
York alumni. He announced, very
briefly, future plans and programs for
the New York chapter. The occasion
marked the fall meeting of the
University Board of Trustees and also
the meeting of the Robert E. Lee
Associates whose annual dinner and
meeting took place that evening.

UPPER POTOMAC. Area alumni met
for dinner on Aug. 30 at the
Cumberland (Md.) Country Club. While
noting that the chapter has had a
graduate in each of the past two years,
discussion took place about the
recruiting efforts for the future. Albert
D. Darby Jr., 43, volunteered to
coordinate W&L recruitment activities
with college-night programs about the
area.

CHICAGO. The chapter conducted a
dinner meeting on Sept. 14 at the
Chicago Bar Association Building.
President Robert E. R. Huntley was the
special guest and speaker for the

MONTGOMERY—Philip L. Seller, 75; J. Michael Jenkins ITT, ’64; John
Walter Stowers, ’42, and Charles Savage, 64. The meeting was held at the
Montgomery Country Club, with John C. Hollister, ’58, presiding.

NEW YORK—John Ellis (center) ’56, president of the New York chapter
talks at University Club reception with Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., ’33,

 

 

 
    

evening. Other guests were college
counselors from a number of the area
secondary schools. Chapter president,
Stanley A. Walton III, 62, ’65L, directed
the program and greeted the large
group of alumni and guests.

ROANOKE. A large group of alumni
and guests gathered on Sept. 22 fora
reception at the Roanoke Fine Arts
Center—Cherry Hill. The occasion,
sponsored by the Roanoke Fine Arts
Center and the Roanoke alumni
chapter, was a preview exhibition of the
paintings, drawings and water colors by
Louise Herreshoff. Mr. and Mrs. Robert
N. Fishburn, ’55, were the hosts of the
occasion. David Goode, president of the
Roanoke Fine Arts Center, began the
program. William L. Andrews III, ’72,
president of the Roanoke chapter,
expressed sincere thanks to Mr. and
Mrs. Fishburn and then introduced
James Whitehead, treasurer of
Washington and Lee and curator of the
Herreshoff paintings. Whitehead spoke
of what the Herreshoff paintings have
meant as a special gift to Washington
and Lee. He was followed on the
program by President Huntley who
emphasized the University’s
appreciation of the Herreshoff paintings

UPPER POTOMAC—Standing with their wives seated in front are Leslie C.
Rucker Jr., 64; L. Leslie Helmer, ’36; Albert D. Darby Jr., ’43; James A.
Black, ’34, and William L. Wilson, ’38.

ROANOKE—President and Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley at the Roanoke Fine
Arts Center with Mrs. Robert N. Fishburn and Robert N. Fishburn, ’55.

 

  

A ‘

 

and expressed his delight at having this
occasion to meet so many alumni and
friends. Mrs. Huntley and Mrs. Whitehead
also attended the reception.

RICHMOND. The chapter conducted
a dinner meeting on Sept. 27 at the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. During
the meeting the following officers were
elected: Robert H. Yevich, ’70,
president; David D. Redmond, ’66, ’69L,
vice president; L. Gordon Miller Jr., ’45,

secretary; and J. Lee Keiger III, ’76,

treasurer. Following the business
meeting, members were invited to a
lecture in the museum.

RALEIGH. The eastern North

Carolina chapter met on Oct. 27 at the
home of Ted Vaden, ’69, chapter
president. Betsy Vaden and secretary-
treasurer Walter Lockhart III, 69, and
his wife, Sarah, helped greet the guests.
The recent visit of Mark Putney, ’78,
W&L admissions representative, and the
increased interest of potential applicants
from area secondary schools in
Washington and Lee were discussed by
many of those present. Assistant alumni
secretary Buddy Atkins, ’68, and his
wife, Evan, were present for the
reception.

35

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oo

' THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$80.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$65.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your
name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

36

129

Lewis F. PowELL, JR., Associate Justice of the
United States Supreme Court, received the
Alumnus of the Year Award of the Phi Kappa
Sigma Fraternity at ceremonies in Richmond,
Va., on Oct. 21. The award was the first such
annual award presented by the national
fraternity. Powell is a Trustee of Washington
and Lee University and of the Colonial
Williamsburg Foundation. Serving with the U.S.
Army Air Force in World War II, Powell rose
to the rank of full colonel and was awarded the
Legion of Merit, Bronze Star and France’s
Croix de Guerre with Palm. He was president of
the American Bar Association in 1964-65 and is
a member of the American College of Trial
Lawyers. He is also an honorary bencher of
Lincoln’s Inn, London.

1930

JupGE Rosert E. Capp Jr., former associate
judge of the Sixth Judicial Circuit of Maryland,
with chambers in Frederick, has recently been
named chief judge. The designation indicates
that Judge Clapp is senior to his fellow judges in
the circuit.

1931

Lewis F. POWELL JR. (See 1929.)

1934

Dr. JOHN D. BATTLE JR. is retired as head of the
hematology department at the Cleveland
(Ohio) Clinic. He is listed as Resident Emeritus
Consultant and has been active in audio-visual
education and has produced several video tapes
relating to hematology. In July 1978 he
presented the tapes before the International
Society of Hematology in Paris.

1937

Howe it W. RoBERTS JR., a retired employee
with the Aviation Department of the Port
Authority of New York and New Jersey, is now
with the Greensboro-High Point (N.C.) Airport
Authority as administration and properties
manager. Roberts was with the New York Port
Authority for 30 years and the last 15 years
were spent at Kennedy Airport in properties
administration. He and his wife moved to
Greensboro in August and have built a new
home.

LATHAM B. WEBER, retired editor and publisher
of the Salamanca Republican-Press (N. Y.) has
been named visiting lecturer in journalism at
Alfred University. Latham will teach a
workshop course in advanced reporting and
newswriting under terms of a grant from the
Gannett Newspaper Foundation of Rochester.
Weber worked for 23 years as a reporter,
business manager and managing editor of the

Salamanca newspaper before succeeding his
father as editor and publisher in 1961. He
retired in early 1978.

1940

RICHARD W. BoIssEAu, prominent businessman
of Petersburg, Va., is executive director of the
Appomattox Basin Industrial Development
Corp. The firm represents the counties of
Chesterfield, Dinwiddie, and Prince George,
and the cities of Hopewell, Colonial Heights,
and Petersburg. The firm encourages new
industry to locate in the area.

1943

WILLIAM G. S1zEMoRE of Greensboro, N. C., has
been named president of Wachovia Mortgage
Co. Sizemore is senior vice president and
secretary of the Wachovia Corp., parent
company of Wachovia Mortgage.

1945

RoBERT H. BeErrTINI is vice president and sales
manager for Contractors Lumber & Supply
Corp. of Greensboro, N.C. __, .
Dr. S. ALLAN MCALLISTER is serving as a visiting
assistant professor of chemistry at Stetson
University in DeLand, Fla. McAllister has
taught chemistry at several other colleges and
was senior patent chemist in the photo products
department of E. I. duPont before he entered
the teaching profession.

1951

Davip C. G. KERR, prominent attorney and
partner in the law firm of Macfarlane,
Ferguson, Allison & Kelly, has been installed as
president of the Greater Tampa (Fla.) Chamber
of Commerce. Kerr has been active in
community organizations for several years. His
associations include: the University of Tampa,
the Bar Association of Tampa and _ Hills-
borough County, and the Committee of
100. He is past chairman of the Committee of
100. Kerr also serves as a director of the Atlantic
Bank of Tampa, Smalley Transportation Co.
and Tampa Ship Repair and Dry Dock Co., Inc.

1952

JOHN C. Joyce JR. has been appointed feature
editor of the News in Lynchburg, Va. He has
been city editor of the paper since 1966. Joyce,
his wife, Estelle, and daughter, Elizabeth, live in
Lynchburg.

1958

SHELDON CLARK is headmaster of Saint
Michael’s School in Stuart, Fla. Clark’s career
has included assignments at Westminster
School (Simsbury, Conn.), Pembroke-Country
Day School (Kansas City, Mo.), and most

   

R. M. Tilley Jr., °58

recently, Ransom-Everglades School (Miami,
Fla.). The Clarks have three children.

Dr. Mark E. SmuLson has been promoted to
professor of biochemistry at the Georgetown
University School of Medicine. Smulson, his
wife and two sons have returned from a
sabbatical in London where he did research
work in molecular biology at Kings College.

Rice M. TIL.ey JRr., a member of the firm of
Law, Snakard, Brown and Gambill in Fort
Worth, Texas, has been elected to the board of
directors of the Fort Worth National Bank.
Tilley received his law degree from Southern
Methodist University Law School and holds an
L.L.M. Degree in Taxation from the New York
University Law School. He currently is serving
as chairman-elect of the Real Estate, Probate
and Trust Section of the State Bar of Texas and
was editor of the section newsletter from 1973
to 1978. He is a Fellow of the Texas Bar
Foundation and a member of the American
College of Probate Counsel and of the Taxation
and Corporate Sections of the State Bar of
Texas and the American Bar Association. Tilley
is a former president and current advisory
board member of the Lena Pope Home, a
former president and current board member of
the Fort Worth Chamber of Commerce, Van
Cliburn Foundation, Texas Art Alliance, Fort
Worth Symphony Association, and the James
Dick Foundation for the Performing Arts. He is
a member of the Fort Worth Progress, a former
chairman of the Fort Worth Business and
Estate Council, and recently completed a six-
year term as a member of the board of
governors of the Fort Worth Club.

1960

ROBERT L. ELDER has been named editor of
editorial pages of the San Jose Mercury and
News. Elder is married to the former Sarah
Virginia Jones of Tullahoma, Tenn., and the
couple lives in Palo Alto, Calif.

Dr. WALDO E. KNICKERBOCKER JR., a Native of
Houston, Texas, was inaugurated as Dean of
the Memphis (Tenn.) Theological Seminary in
ceremonies on Sept. 27, 1978. Knickerbocker
received his B.D. and Ph.D. from Emory
University. He served two years in the U. S.
Army. His ministerial experience includes local
pastorates, campus ministry, college and
seminary teaching. He is a member of the
Memphis Annual Conference of the United
Methodist Church. For the past five years
Knickerbocker has been professor of church
history and Methodist studies at the seminary.
He will continue his teaching responsibilities as
he assumes the Deanship. He and his wife,
Sandie, have two children.

1961

Dr. E. DARRACOTT VAUGHAN JR., formerly with

the department of urology at the University of
Virginia School of Medicine in Charlottesville,
is now the Colt Professor and the head of the
Division of Urology at Cornell Medical Center
and the New York Hospital Complex.

EpGAR B. WERTHEIMER III has been elected a
senior vice president of Wheat, First Securities,
Inc., in Newport News, Va. Wertheimer has
been with the firm since 1969.

1962

American Insurance Marketing Corp. of Falls
Church, Va., has appointed Davip AuLp vice
president of the firm.

GeorGE H. Van Sciver has been promoted to
sales manager for the eastern region of ABEX
Corp. in Philadelphia. Van Sciver lives in
Radnor, Pa., with his wife Barbara and their two
children.

Harry TETER JR. resigned as executive director
of the 13-state Appalachian Regional Com-
mission to return to the private practice of
law. Teter served as executive director for over
five years.

1963

GreorGE W. Harvey Jr. has been selected as
chairman of the board of counselors at the Uni-
versity of Tampa. The board of counselors is a
group of civic leaders from the Tampa Bay area
who assist the university in fund raising and
student-related activities. In this position, Har-
vey will also be an ex-officio member of the
University’s board of trustees.

J. RicHarp UHLIc II has been named manager
of the newly created department of office
buildings development and operations of
Maryland Properties, Inc., a subsidiary of Mc-
Cormick & Co., Inc. Uhlig was previously
marketing manager of MPI, which he joined in
1971. He is secretary-treasurer of the Balti-
more-Washington chapter of the National
Association of Corporate Real Estate Execu-
tives.

1964

JouN M. Drxon is in a private ophthalmology
practice in Albany, Ga. and has been elected a
Fellow in the American Academy of Ophthal-
mology. He is also head of the department of
chalazion surgery at Palmyra Park Hospital.

ROBERT MOTTLEY, after receiving his master’s
degree from the University of Delaware, became
a reporter for the Roanoke (Va.) World-News.
For a year, 1971-72, he was a film critic with
Knickerbocker News-Union Star in Albany, N. Y.
Since 1972 Mottley has been in New York City
as editor of publications at District 2 MEBA-
AMO, a maritime union of licensed engineers

37

 

and mates on U. S. merchant ships. Since 1976
he has been editor in chief of the American Mari-
time Officer, a newspaper for the maritime in-
dustry. He is married to the former Pamela
Guinau.

1965

MARRIAGE: HENRY BAXTER QUEKEMEYER JR.
and Kathleen Frank on Sept. 23, 1978. The
couple lives in Alexandria, Va.

JAQUELIN H. DEJARNETTE has joined the Dayton,
Ohio, office of McDonald and Co. DeJarnette,
his wife and daughter are living in Dayton.

Dr. ROBERT STAUFFER has been promoted to
assistant professor of economics at Roanoke
College. Stauffer has taught at several Virginia
colleges, most recently at Hollins.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH L. BERNHARDT,
a daughter, Karen Sunday, on Aug. 22, 1978, in
Washington, D. C.

4:
BIRTH: Maj. and Mrs. RANDOLPH T. POORE, a
daughter, Jennifer Lynn, on April 12, 1978.
Poore graduated in June 1978 from the U. S.
Army Command and General Staff College and
is assigned to the 82nd Airborne Division at
Fort Bragg, N. C. He earned the MSME degree
from the University of Alabama in 1974 and a
master’s degree in engineering management
from the University of Detroit in 1976.

WILLIAM D. CANNON Jr. has been re-elected to
the board of directors of the University of Vir-
ginia Student Aid Foundation. Cannon is a
realtor-builder and now lives in Culpeper, Va.

J. PEGRAM JOHNSON III has been elected an
assistant vice president of Wachovia Bank and
Trust Co. in Charlotte, N. C. Johnson joined
Wachovia in 1973 and became a trust admini-
stration officer in 1977. He received a law de-
gree from the University of Virginia.

1967

In November 1977, PHILANDER P. CLAXTON III
set a new time record for circumnavigating the
world in a twin-propeller airplane. His record
time was 104 hours, 5 minutes and 30 seconds
and included nine stops for fuel. This broke the
previous record by more than 18 hours and was
accomplished on his fifth attempt. Claxton is
chief executive officer of the Watkins Corp. and
lives in McLean, Va.

CHARLES C. HarT is now practicing law in Gads-
den, Ala., and studying for an M. A. degree.
Hart had a poem, “Dry Fly Fishing in Washing-
ton, D. C.” published in the May 1978 issue of
Washingtonian.

38

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD K. CHRISTO-
VICH, a son, Patrick Ambrose, on July 18, 1978.
Christovich is a practicing attorney in New Or-
leans.

Dr. NEWTON B. MILLER is a resident in obstetrics
and gynecology in Norfolk, Va. After leaving
Washington and Lee, he completed his B.S.
degree in business from Old Dominion Univer-
sity where he lettered in wrestling and was on
the newspaper staff. Following ODU, Miller
went to Naval Aviation OCS and later became a
Navy pilot. He was discharged from service in

At Ogburn wedding are (kneeling) Daniel Drennen, ’76; Robert Gray, °75;
Rush Dickson, ’76; Mrs. Ogburn; William Ogburn, ’76; Howell Morrison,
76; Robert Schuler, 81; (first row) William Cogar, ’76; Russell Chambliss,
74; William Pritchard, ’76; Douglass Farris, ’°76; John Darivin, 76; Kim
Ratliff, °76; Walter Robertson, 76; Robert Couch, ’78; Barry Barlow, ’77;
William Crawford, ’76; Kennedy Simpson, ’75; Neal Cory, 77; Don Sharp,
66; Edward Callison, ’77; (second row) Dennis Oakley, ’76; Woody Ray,
°75,; Felix Drennen, ’73; Walter Kanstiener, ’77; Hal Welford, ’76; Tom
Murphy, ’77; Bob Snyder, 76; Harry Hall, ’75; Edmund Seibels, °75;
Richard Abernathy, ’73, and Billy Hiden, ’75.

1972 after which he entered a pre-med program
for two years at Old Dominion University. He
then attended Eastern Virginia Medical School
and was awarded his M.D. degree in 1977.

1969
MARRIAGE: Rurus Dixon Kinney and Mar-
garet Carolyn Perry on April 8, 1978, in Monte-
vallo, Ala. Donald C. McClure Jr. attended the
wedding. Kinney is enrolled in graduate school
at the University of Montevallo.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Ray V. HARTWELL III, a

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, °70, Smith, Robinson & Vin-
yard, 117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Atlanta—John Hines, 63, Trust Co. Bank, P. O. Box 4418,
Atlanta, Ga. 30302

Augusta-Rockingham—Ross V. Hersey, ’40, 1060 Lyndhurst
Rd., Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—James J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L, Cable, McDaniel, Bowie
& Bond, The Blaustein Bldg., Baltimore, Md. 21201
Birmingham—David R. Pittman, ’75, The John G. Pittman
Agency, 1101 S. 22nd St., Birmingham, Ala. 35203

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, ’69, Route |, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl.
Bank of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897
Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, ’74, P.O. Box 651, Jack-
son, Miss. 39205

Charleston—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, ’68L, 710 Commerce
Square, Charleston, W. Va. 25301

Charlotte—Gary L. Murphy, ’70, 1925 Shoreham Dr., Char-
lotte, N.C. 28211

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, ’72L, 111 Maclellan
Bldg., 721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’65L, Winston and Strawn,
One First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60670
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, ’56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—R. Noel Spence, ’56, ’58L, 123 W. Wash-
ington St., Hagerstown, Md. 21740

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., ’61, 3919 Cobblestone Dr., Dallas,
Texas 75229

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, °75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—FErnest I. Cornbrooks III, 67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisbury, Md. 21801

Eastern North Carolina—FE. B. Vaden Jr., 69, 3519 Turn-
bridge Dr., Raleigh, N.C. 27609

Florida West Coast—George Harvey Jr., 63, WFLA-TV, 905
Jackson St., Tampa, Fla. 33601

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream— Mercer K. Clarke, 66, Smathers & Thompson,
1301 Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

Houston—W. B. Oglivie Jr., 64, Office of Executive V.P., Baylor
College of Medicine, Texas Medical Center, Houston, Texas
77030

Jacksonville— William H. Jeter Jr., °71, Adams & Adams, 314
Duval Federal Bldg., 135 W. Bay St., Jacksonville, Fla. 32202
Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, ’71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock—William F. Rector Jr., 70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205
Long Island—Jeff Wexler, 69, The Oceanside Beacon, Box
126, Oceanside, N.Y. 11572

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., ’70, 222 S. Birchwood
Ave., Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—Cecil W. Taylor, ’39, ’41L, 3844 Peakland Place,
Lynchburg, Va. 24503

Mid-South— Jody Brown, 65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Briad Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbrun Viaduct, Nashville, Tenn. 37215

Mobile— McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala.
36601

Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, 72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass., 02149

New Orleans— Richard K. Christovich, 68, 1208 Pine St., New
Orleans, La. 70118

New York—John M. Ellis, 56, HAUS International, 1212 Ave-
nue of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, ’61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—John Madison Jr., 64, Wilner, Weiss,
Madison & Howell, 411 Commercial National Bank Bldg.,
Shreveport, La. 71101

Oklahoma City—John C. McCurry, 66, 219 Couch Dr., Okla-
homa City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 2910
Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm Beach, Fla. 33401
Palmetto—John W. Folsom, ’73, South Carolina Federal Savings
& Loan Assn., P.O. Box 69, Columbia, S.C. 29202
Peninsula— Benjamin A. Williams, ’71, 134 Hampton Roads
Ave., Hampton, Va. 23661

Pensacola— Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, 3985 Piedmont Rd., Pensa-
cola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia— Edward W. Coslett III, °70, 64 Paxon Hollow
Rd., Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, ’73, Wachovia Bank & Trust
Co., Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104

Pittsburgh— Richard M. Johnson, ’56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond— Robert H. Yevich, ’70, 6931 Navaho Rd., Rich-
mond, Va. 23225

Roanoke— William L. Andrews III, ’72, 430 Canterbury Lane,
Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, 59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington,
Va. 24450

San Antonio—Ralph E. Lehr Jr., 73, 10 Elmcourt, San Antonio,
Texas 78209

St. Louis— Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., 66, 330 Oakley Lane,
St. Louis, Mo. 63122

South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, ’74, P. O.
Box 695, Greenville, S. C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, ’53, Box 1762,
Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio— Thomas P. Winborne, 51, °53L, 3510 Arnold
Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr.,’54,’60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531
Tidewater—Richard C. Burroughs, 68, 409 Yarmouth St.,
Norfolk, Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, 69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25719

Tulsa—Dan W. Higgins Jr., 69, 1200 First Natl. Bldg., Tulsa,
Okla. 74103

Upper Potomac— Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington— James A. Meriwether, ’70, Arthur Andersen &
Co., 1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, 53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Waodland Trail,
Abilene, Texas 79605

 

second son, William Scherer, on July 19, 1978.
Hartwell, an attorney with the Richmond law
firm of Hunton and Williams, has been on the
board of governors of the Antitrust Law Section
of the Virginia State Bar since 1977, and was
elected vice president of the section at the an-
nual meeting in June 1978.

GREGORY B. Crampton has become a partner in
the law firm of Broughton, Wilkins, Ross and
Crampton. He lives in Raleigh, N. C., with his
wife and two daughters.

JOHN Ray TuRMAN is completing his dissertation
for a doctorate in German literature at the Uni-
versity of Texas. His subject is the influence of
mysticism and idealistic philosophy on German
Romantic literature. Turman recently self-
published a science fiction novel, Saxon and the
Sorceress.

1971

J. GREGORY TINAGLIA, a chartered life under-
writer, has joined with three partners to form
an insurance consulting firm in Roanoke, Va.
Tinaglia is a director of the Roanoke Valley
Association of Life Underwriters.

4 }

1972

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WaAtrTeR S. BLAKE, a son,
Thaddeus Malachi, on Aug. 6, 1978. This is the
second child for the Blakes, who have a daugh-
ter, Malaika, age 7. Blake is an associate in the
firm of Hammer, Siler, George Associates, a
Washington-based economic and development
consulting firm. The family resides in Reston,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. HENRY JERNIGAN JR.,
a daughter, Sarah Elizabeth, on Feb. 28, 1978.
Jernigan is associated with the firm of Jackson,
Kelly, Holt and O’Farrell in Charleston, W. Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Roperick A. Munpy JR.,
a son, Lawrence Roderick, on July 30, 1978.
Mundy received a doctorate in political science
from the University of Florida and is now on the

faculty of MacMurray College in Jacksonville,
Il.

ROBERT P. BEAKLEY has been selected for inclu-
sion in the 1978 edition of Outstanding Young
Men of America.

RoBERT A. Carrere earned his master’s degree
in humanistic psychology at West Georgia Col-
lege in June 1978, and is now working on his
doctorate in clinical psychology at Adelphi Uni-
versity in New York.

Lawson H. Marsua_t has been named city edi-
tor of the News in Lynchburg, Va. He had been
the state editor of the News since 1974. Marshall
and his wife, Kathleen, have a daughter, Jessie.

At Ruffin wedding are Peter C. Keefe, 78; W.
Kirkland Ruffin, ’°77; Mrs. Ruffin; Walter
D. Kelly Jr., °77, 81L; James N. Falk, ’77.

1973
MARRIAGE: E tuts L. GuTsHALL and Deborah
Lee Coleman on Sept. 9, 1978, in Birmingham,
Ala. Gutshall is employed by the First Virginia
Bank in Roanoke, Va. The couple resides in
Salem.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DENNIs Myers, a daugh-
ter, Michele Elizabeth, on July 31, 1978. Myers
is an accountant with Arthur Young & Co. in
Charlotte, N. C.

JEFFREY DIAMOND is a purchasing agent for Astro
Chemicals, Inc., of Springfield, Mass. He and
his wife, Wendy, live in Longmeadow.

WabE D. Gowt is a sales representative in the
home office of Porta-Space Inc., a Baltimore
based firm that leases and sells construction
trailers throughout the country.

Davip S. Grossman is teaching junior high
school history and coaching soccer and tennis at

 

L. N. Nau, ’74

Jacksonville Country Day School in Jacksonville,
Fla.

After finishing medical school at the University
of South Carolina and one year of general sur-
gery at Baylor College of Medicine, Dr. JoHN
MARGOLIs is now in a neurosurgery residency at
Baylor. He is also president of the Baylor
Housestaff Association.

1974
MARRIAGE: Wi.u1aAmM DuvaL Apams IV and
Patricia Alene Beckley on Aug. 19, 1978, in
Roanoke, Va. The couple lives in Charlottesville
where Adams is employed by the University of
Virginia Bookstore.

MARRIAGE: BeERnarp J. Lewis and Deborah
Fravel on Aug. 5, 1978. Included among the
wedding party was Jerrod Godin ’73. Lewis
completed his doctorate in psychology at the
University of Virginia and is now working as a
staff psychologist at the Community Mental

 

In compliance with Article 9 of
the By-Laws of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., the names and ad-
dresses of the Nominating Commit-
tee for 1978-79 are listed below:

Peter A. Agelasto III, ’62
Committee Chairman

Agelasto and Agelasto

P.O. Box 3217

Norfolk, Va. 23514

James P. Sunderland, ’50

President, Ash Grove
Cement Co.

1000 Ten Main Center

Kansas City, Mo. 64105

Owen H. Harper, ’59
Executive Vice President
Crocker National Bank
611 West Sixth Street
Los Angeles, Calif. 90017

The committee is now receiving
the names of candidates to fill three
seats on the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors and one vacancy on the Univer-
sity Committee on Intercollegiate
Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member

 

NAME YOUR CANDIDATE

of the Alumni Association may sub-
mit names of alumni to the Nominat-
ing Committee for nomination for
the offices to be filled. Alumni may
send names directly to any member
of the committee or to the committee
through the office of the Executive
Secretary of the Alumni Association
at the University.

The committee will close its re-
port on March 12, 1979, and present
its nominations to the annual meet-
ing of the Alumni Association on
May 12, 1979. The annual meeting
coincides with the Spring Reunion
Weekend.

Members of the 12-man Alumni
Board of Directors are elected to
four-year terms, with the terms of
three members expiring each year.
Retiring from the Board in May are:
Edwin J.. Foltz, ’40, of Camden,
N. J., Robert M. White II, ’38 of
Mexico, Mo., and Jerry G. South,
54, of San Francisco, Calif. Alumni
members of the Athletic Committee
serve two year terms, with one
alumni member retiring each year.
‘The member retiring in May is Sid-
mon J. Kaplan, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio.

 

 

39

 

Health Center in Vincennes, Ind., where his
wife is a special education teacher for the city
schools.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. D’Arcy Dip1IeER a son,
Benjamin Peal, on Oct. 2, 1977. Didier has left
the private practice of law in Bridgeport, Conn.
and has joined Continental Forest Industries as
area manager, Industrial Relations, for its
Corrugated Division with offices in Columbus,
Ohio. He and the family reside in Worthington,
Ohio.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Norsert S. GARBISCH
III, a daughter, Samantha Mary, on Sept. 22,
1978. Garbisch lives in Connoquenessing, Pa.

Larry N. Nau has joined Bank of Virginia Co.
as an assistant vice president in the marketing
division, where he will be manager of product
planning. Nau resides in Richmond, Va.

1975

MARRIAGE: Tuomas Woopwarp TINSLEY and
Pamela Page Whitesell on Aug. 5, 1978, in Lex-
ington, Va. Tinsley is an electronic technician
on the Washington and Lee staff. ‘William G.
Tinsley, ’39 was best man. :
S. LAWRENCE DuMVILLE graduated in’May 1978
from law school at William and Mary. Dumville
lives in Virginia Beach and is associated with the
firm of Breeden, Howard and MacMillan in
Norfolk.

PETER G. D. ERTMAN is a geologist with the
Bureau of Land Management, U. S. Depart-
ment of Interior. He is temporarily in Phoenix,
Ariz., in a training course entitled “Mineral Re-
source Management.” He expects to return to
his permanent station in Las Vegas, Nev., in
December 1978.

Ray V. HARTWELL III (See 1969.)

W. HENRY JERNIGAN Jr. (See 1972.)

1976

MARRIAGE: James C. Goutp and Dorothea B.
Hecht on Aug. 5, 1978, in Tampa, Fla. Gould is
a senior at Harvard Law School and his wife is a
lawyer employed by the Securities Exchange
Commission in Washington.

MARRIAGE: WILuiAM H. OcBurn and Elizabeth
Schuler on May 20, 1978, in Birmingham, Ala.
Included in the wedding party were: William
Cogar, ’76; Hal Welford, ’76; Barry Barlow,
°77; William Crawford, ’76; Neal Cory, ’77; and
Robert Schuler, ’81. The couple is living in
Nashville, Tenn., where Ogburn is finishing his
last year in the MBA program at Vanderbilt.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Danie. E. DRENNEN II, a
son, Glenn Ireland, on June 25, 1978. Drennen

40

“a Foster, 80; Steve Hallowell, ’80.

isa senior at the Cumberland Law School in
Birmingham and will graduate in December.

CRAIG GRAHAM is working with Domino Inter-
national Inc. out of Alexandria, Va., and will
have short assignments in Madrid, Spain and
Paris, France, as well as other European mar-
kets. Prior to accepting this position, Graham
had completed a Rotary Fellowship in Cairo,
Egypt and had been employed with American
Filtrona Co. of Richmond.

WALTER S. ROBERTSON III is working in the
commercial department of De Jarnette and Paul
Insurance, Inc. in Richmond, Va.

1977

MARRIAGE: ANTHONY GAYLE PERRY and
Deborah Elizabeth Baker on Aug. 26, 1978, in
Lexington, Va. Eugene C. Perry Jr., ’75, ’78L
and John X. Miller, 77, were members of the
wedding. Perry is a lieutenant in the U. S. Army
finance corps stationed at Fort Benning, Ga.

MARRIAGE: W. KirkLanpD RUvuFFIN and Julia
Clare Ziurys on June 17, 1978, in Gates Mill,
Ohio. Members of the wedding included James
N. Falk, ’77; Peter C. Keefe, ’78; and Walter D.
Kelley Jr., 77, °81L. The Ruffins live in Char-
lottesville where he is a second-year medical
student at the University of Virginia.

MicHaeEL A. BraGG is associated with the law
firm of William Rogers McCall, ’73L in Bristol,
Va. He just completed a clerkship for U. S.
Circuit Court Judge H. Emory Widener Jr.,
*B3L.

Douc ass W. DewinG is a first year law student
at Washington University in St. Louis.

JAMEs M. Dick has been appointed technical
correspondent for purification sales of Darco
carbons in the specialty chemicals division of
ICI Americas, Inc. at corporate headquarters in
Wilmington, Del. Dick, his wife, Mona, and
daughter live in Claymont, Del.

BrabD-ey S. ELLiort is working for the Augusta
(Ga.) Herald, an evening daily paper. Elliott
works with Howard Eanes, a former W&L pro-
fessor.

Rep H. GrirFIn has passed his CPA exam and
been promoted to staff A at Coopers and Ly-
brand in Richmond, Va.

WALTER H. KANSTEINER III is a member of the
faculty at the Baylor School in Chattanooga.

VAUGHAN M. Put7z has returned froma year of
graduate study at Friedrich Alexander Univer-
sity in Erlangen, Germany. He also traveled
extensively in western and central Europe. Pultz
is now enrolled in graduate school at the Uni-
versity of Minnesota.

At Strong wedding are (first row) Ken Ruscio, 76; Mark

Ulmer, ’77; Craig Cornett, 80; Syd Farrar, ’80; Mrs.

| Strong; John Strong, ’77; Pete Abitante, ’78; Stewart
Atkinson, ’80; (second row) Dave M eyers, 80; Steve

Herald, 80; Randy George, ’81; John Sacco, ’78; Jay

G. Scott THomas is working for WXXI, a radio
station in Rochester, N. Y.

SAMUEL E. THOMPSON is sports editor of the
McDuffie Progress in Thomson, Ga.

JAMES B. WoopDDELLt is a second-year student at
the University of Maryland School of Dentistry.

1978

MARRIAGE: JaMEs G. SHERIDAN JR. and Jenni-
fer Lane Bodenhorst on July 29, 1978, in Lee
Chapel. Members of the wedding included
James G. Sheridan, ’50; John M. Sheridan, ’74;
and Steven C. Yeakel, 78. Sheridan is studying
for a year in Germany.

MARRIAGE: JOHN STRONG and Carol Ritten-
house on June 24, 1978, in Worcester, Pa. After
a honeymoon in New Hampshire, the Strongs
will spend the next year in Sweden where he is
on a Fulbright Scholarship.

ROBERT H. JACKSON is enrolled at Louisiana
State University Medical School at Shreveport.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1912

RODERICK BEDDow, one of the most prominent
lawyers in the state of Alabama, died Sept. 13,
1978, in Birmingham. After graduating from
Washington and Lee, Beddow received his law
degree from the University of Alabama.

1925

FRANK PHILIP FISCHER, founder of the Frank P.
Fischer Engineering Co., Inc. of New Orleans,
La., died May 24, 1978, at his summer home in
Destin, Fla.

 

1947

DAVID THOMAS LAUDERDALE JR.,
formerly of Lexington, died Nov. 4,
1978, in the Emory University Hospital
following a short illness. Lauderdale was
a member of the faculty of Westminster
Schools in Atlanta, Ga., where he taught
English and Bible and_ coached
wrestling. He had been a member of the
school’s staff since 1951. Lauderdale was
in the Army from 1943 to 1945 and
received the Purple Heart during World
War II. He was a former president of the
Southeastern Association of Preparatory
Schools. Donn Gaebelein, headmaster of
Westminster Schools, said of him:
“David was the Frank Gilliam of
Westminster. He was the heart of our
school.”

 

 

 

oH AOA oe SHO LSI LEONE OE ASCO ASOT aS Cae OE Seon

Shenandoah

$1.50

SPRING 1978

 

Shenandoah

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

WV siters of this stature appear in SHENANDOAH:

ROBERT PENN WARREN ROBERT LOWELL
ALLEN TATE RICHARD HOWARD
PETER TAYLOR REYNOLDS PRICE
ELIZABETH BISHOP W. S. MERWIN

Roy FULLER JOYCE CAROL OATES

[wo stories that appeared in SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards for distinguished
brief fiction.

Won’t you subscribe to Washington and Lee
University’s award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
[| One year @ $5.00 L] Two years @ $8.00
My check for $ enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

City State Zip

OAS OA ASOT AIA OT LEONE ALLE LIA OE Oe Se oe AS oe

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

Available Again

Washington and Lee
University Alumni, Inc.

Presents (For members and their immediate families)

 
   

May 31-June 8, 1979
Dulles Departure

YOUR TRIP INCLUDES:

Round trip jet transportation to London via Capitol
International Airways’ DC-8 (meals and beverages
served aloft"); normally evening departure

Beautiful accommodations for seven nights at the
STRAND PALACE HOTEL**

Continental breakfast daily (tax & service included)
Half-day trip to Windsor Castle

City orientation tour vee Parliament, Piccadilly
Circus, Westminster Abbey, Changing of the Guard,
and more)

Exciting low-cost optional tours available

All gratuities for chambermaids, beliboys and doormen

United States departure tax ($3.00) includedt

All round-trip transfers via deluxe motorcoach with
London hosts, and baggage handling from airport to
hotel

Free time to pursue your own interests; no
regimentation

(+15% Tax and Service) Experienced tour director and hotel hospitality desk,
Per person-Double occupancy staffed by an on-site team of professionals

Singie Supplement - $150.00 *Alcoholic beverages available
**or similar
+Foreign arrival/departure tax (es) not included

 

For further information, call or write: W. C. Washburn,
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington,
Va. 24450 PHONE: (703) 463-9111 Ext. 214 or 318

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

 

