JANUARY 1976

f washi d lee un

the alumn

ington an iversity

1 Magazine oO

athe * Syms

Dee site
OS a A

   

 

 

LEXINGTON,

 

 

CF

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 51, Number 1, January 1976

William C. Washburn, 740.......00000.....cceeeeeeeee eee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman...................... Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68...............00.....ccceeeeeeeeee Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel..........00..0.... Editorial Assistants

ALY MAM oi cee cictale se eeesngeseedteetseeteees Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

An $11-Million Bequest 2.000.000 ]
John Lee Pratt: A Private Man ooo... 3
Reflections on the Pratt Gift 2.0.00. 6
Kopald is New ‘Trustee 00000000 8
W&L to Remain All-Male ............... iveueverdecedeyeueres 9
Campus Effort Nets $60,000 200, 10
Mock Convention in Review ............................ 11
ODK ‘Tap Ceremony, 1976 000. 14
Polo Comes to W&L ooo... coooccccccccecccceee. 16
19th-Century American Painting ooo... 18
Isabel McIlvain, Sculptor oo 18
Campus News Briefs oo... 24
RE TO ioe isciscleccescseeccescccosscseesstssssseesen oO
Summer Business Institute 30
A Oc cisgcieeecchceccuscceceeccecccoseccececescecee. 31
ee 38

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

C. Royce Houecu, *59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
President

VERNON W, HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

‘THEODORE M. Kerr, 757, Midland, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 740, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

‘THOMAS B. BRANCH, III, 758, Atlanta, Ga.
EpwIn J. Foitz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Ho..is, 51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy, Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
Jerry G. Sout, ’54, San Francisco, Calif.
CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. Tuomas Toucuton, ’60, Tampa, Fla.
RosBert M. Wuite, II, 38, Mexico, Mo.

ON THE COVER: John Lee Pratt, the Fredericks-
burg, Va. philanthropist, whose $l1-million be-
quest to Washinton and Lee is the subject of ar-
ticles on the first seven pages of this magazine. A
biographical sketch of Mr. Pratt begins on Page 3.
The cover photograph and those on Pages | and
5 are used here through the courtesy of the Fred-
ericksburg, Va. Free Lance-Star.

 

 

N. MANC’

INC.

fHE HFCKMAN BINDERY,

Fredericksburg philanthropist bequeaths
$/1 million to Washington and Lee

Washington and Lee University will receive 20 per cent
of the estate — approximately $11 million — of the late
John Lee Pratt, a prominent business executive and phi-
lanthropist who died Dec. 20 in Fredericksburg, Va., at
the age of 96.

Under terms of Mr. Pratt’s will, the bequest to
Washington and Lee is to be used “‘to increase salaries”’
for faculty members and to permit the University to
“offer more scholarships for outstanding students.”

Washington and Lee is one of 10 colleges and uni-
versities named to receive multi-million dollar bequests from
Mr. Pratt’s estate. In addition to Washington and Lee, the
University of Virginia and Virginia Polytechnic Institute
& State University also received 20 per cent shares of the
estate. Mr. Pratt’s other bequests ranged from 4 per cent
to 10 per cent of the estate.

None of Mr. Pratt’s bequests are to be used for con-
structing or improving buildings or for land acquisition. He
also expressed the wish that all the bequests which he made
to academic institutions in the will be spent within
25 years.

“It is my belief,” he wrote in his will, “that the capital
I leave can best serve the purpose I desire by being con-
verted into knowledge that is useful and beneficial to

?

mankind without undue delay.

While the Washington and Lee bequest is designated
to strengthen salaries and expand the University’s stu-
dent financial aid programs, Mr. Pratt’s bequests to the
University of Virginia and Virginia Tech are subject to
additional provisions.

The University of Virginia’s bequest is to be used to
strengthen faculty salaries and to purchase equipment in
the biology, chemistry, mathematics and physics depart-
ments, and to support research and provide scholarships
in the medical school there.

The Virginia Tech bequest is designated partly for
“the study of animal nutrition” and partly for expanded
research and scholarship opportunities in the School of
Engineering.

The bequests to both state-supported universities are
subject to the additional provision that the money Mr.
Pratt left must not be used as a substitute for state appropria-
tions.

In addition to the 20 per cent shares of his estate to
Washington and Lee, Virginia, and Virginia Tech, Mr.
Pratt left 10 per cent to Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
in Lynchburg and to Johns Hopkins University in Balti-
more, Md., to support both the geography school there
and the McCollum-Pratt Institute, which he helped estab-
lish and which conducts research in the field of “‘trace ele-
ments” or “micronutrients.”

 

John Lee Pratt

He also left 4 per cent shares of his estate, valued at
approximately $2.2 million each, to Hollins College, Sweet
Briar College, Hampden-Sydney College, Hampton Institute
and Randolph-Macon College.

Mr. Pratt favored Washington and Lee by providing in
the will that if any of the bequests should fail, then it is
to come to Washington and Lee.

(In a memorandum to members of the Board of ‘Trustees,
the Alumni Board of Directors, and the W&L faculty,
President Huntley said: “I am sure these provisions will not
result in any additional funds to us, but I thought you
might be interested in this indication of Mr. Pratt’s
confidence in us.’’)

Mr. Pratt was a student for one year at Randolph-Macon
College in Ashland, then transferred to the University of

 

A portrait of John Lee Pratt owned by the University of Virginia.

Virginia, where he received his degree in civil engineering
in 1905.

After graduation he joined E. I. duPont de Nemours &
Co. of Wilmington, Del., and eventually rose in that com-
pany and in General Motors, with which duPont merged in
1917. He was elected GM vice president in 1922, became a
director of the company a year later, was a member of
the executive committee for 11 years, and served in other
executive capacities with the GM board until 1952.

A profile of Mr. Pratt published in the Fredericksburg
Free Lance-Star on the day of his funeral last month (and
excerpted elsewhere in this issue of We&L) described him as
“a philanthropist who quietly and without fanfare gave
away hundreds of thousands of dollars to organizations
and causes he felt worthwhile.”

The article said he provided “‘scholarship funds of
major importance’ over the years to a number of Virginia
colleges and universities. He always stipulated that the gifts
he made be kept strictly anonymous.

‘He was a very private man,” the co-executor of his
estate, Attorney Ralph M. Whitticar III, was quoted as
telling the Washington Post. “If that’s the way he wanted
it to be, that’s the way it should be” even after his death,
Whitticar said.

Mr. Pratt first met Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines in

1955, and immediately they became close personal friends —
the beginning of Mr. Pratt’s two decades of extraordinary
devotion to and support of Washington and Lee. When
Dr. Fred C. Cole succeeded Dr. Gaines as President of
the University in 1959, he and Mr. Pratt also became close,
and it was in 1963 that Mr. Pratt’s will was drafted, leaving
20 per cent of his estate to Washington and Lee.

In a comment on Mr. Pratt and on the significance of
his gift to Washington and Lee, President Robert E. R.
Huntley said:

“Colleges sometimes overuse such words as ‘great’ and
‘magnificent’ — but I think it is objectively fair by any
measure to say that those words perhaps understate the impact
of John Lee Pratt’s bequest to Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

“In the same way,” Huntley said, “I do not think we
can overestimate what it has meant to us to have had his
friendship, personally and institutionally — nor what it has
meant to us to have received his enthusiastic endorsement
of our character, our strengths, and our aspirations.

“Mr. Pratt was a businessman of legendary acumen; he
created his estate by means of his own talents and his own
abilities and his own uncanny powers of judgment. And
drawing on those formidable resources, Mr. Pratt judged
Washington and Lee University — and found us worthy.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

   
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 

lic-spirited Fiend
LT private man

and Stafford County 15 2 acres: of the Chatham estate with |
the stipulation that a park be established on the site.
He was born Oct. 22, 1879, at Aspen Grove in. King _
George County. He was the last survivor of the five ‘chil
~ dren of his parents, all of whom lived to advanced. ages.
- Pratt’s mother died in 1885 when he was” six years” old,
and he was tutored at home and later attended Bethel |
School in the White Oak. area of Stafford. When he was 13,
Pratt was employed as an apprentice by M. S. ‘Chancellor | |
: Farm Jmplement § Store | in 1 Frederi te and there, 2 as:

 

 

    

 

 

   
 
    
   
 
    
   
       
   
   
 
   
  
   
   
 
    
   
   
 
  
 
 
 
   

For a time he attended - Lecu:
“school i in ceed: and after a yea

 
 

oO” raduated as a civil engineer in 1
A After t graduation, Pratt had off

— Del., to. or Day y iA i
oe he found the rial > wa

 

‘stock in ‘the nation, “close |
his wealth, Time said, “Pratt § so cessfully k
public view that he is not even listed in| Who's
His career with GM spanned a half-centur
that time he was a key figure i in the company’ ’s
a young and struggling enterprise to one of the
corporate giants the world has ever known.
In 1931, Pratt purchased the historic Chath:
which dates to Colonial times and had spent 1
life there since his retirement as a vice presid 3
1937, 00
[In his will, ‘Mr. Pratt left Chatham to the I
Park Service, which said the historic manor w
“the crown jewel” in the Fredericksburg- Spotsy
War Battlefield network. Chatham, built in 17
site of a wartime Cabinet meeting called by P
Abraham Lincoln; Union troops trained their r
Confederate forces in Fredericksburg from the he
Mr. Pratt’ Ss alee Lillian ‘Thomas Pratt, a nae

M _ Barksdale, t hen a high-ranking duPont nro
ne a as an ae able person. } Bae i

new duPont. praia ‘Asione x places he selected were two. |
- in [ae at Waynesboro: and an area which grew into” |

   
  
  
 

    

- Pratt pecame sdishourieed and returned t to King ppc
where he taught school about a year. But he was persuaded —
to return to” duPont and from then on his star rose

: meteorically. —

In. 1917, du Pont and the fledgling General Motors as
sociated with one another, and from time to time di a Pont a

| executives were made a ble to w. C. Durant, General to

 

 

 

 

      

   

John Lee and Lillian 1 The > mas
generous | (Or tributions t to many causes,

 

 

 

John Lee Pratt

 

reasonably, few employees were buying or renting them.

He asked duPont for assistance and Barksdale sent
him Pratt, whom he called his expert on housing. Pratt
examined General Motors’ payroll records and worked all
night to boil his report down to two paragraphs which
said, in essence, employees weren’t buying or renting the
homes. because they weren’t being paid enough by the
company to afford them.

The simple and incisive report so impressed Durant
that he asked Pratt to go to work for him as a special assis-
tant, and in December 1919 Pratt left duPont and went to
GM.

One of his assignments there was to take care of a
proposed liquidation of the then-infant Frigidaire Division.
Pratt went to the Frigidaire plant in Ohio and informed
the manager the plant was to be closed. The manager begged
him first to talk to some people who had bought Frigidaires,
and Pratt agreed. He visited a number of homes, and at
each stop, on informing women he was with Frigidaire, was
met with a barrage of complaints about the company product.

But when Pratt offered to refund their money to ‘the
customers in full, all the women refused the offer. He
realized that despite defects in the product, customers who
used Frigidaires would not part with them to go back to
the old icebox, and as a result the plant was kept in
operation. In years to come, Pratt was instrumental in de-
velopment of a better refrigerator as well as a safe refriger-
ant, Freon.

In March 1921, Pratt was named general manager and
group executive of the accessories division of General
Motors. He was elected vice president in 1922 and con-
tinued in that capacity until his retirement in 1937.

While corporation vice president, Pratt worked from a
small office in the General Motors building in New York
City and lived at the Hotel McAlpin in a small suite. He
never worked for any one division of General Motors but
served as an official of the entire corporation.

When World War I broke out, Pratt tried to enlist in
the service but was rejected because of a physical disability.
One of his most important roles with GM was helping it
acquire the Dayton Electric Co., which in turn developed
an automobile self-starter small enough to be used feasibly
in cars. Thus the era of the hand starter, or crank, came to
an end.

Pratt was also called upon to promote diesel engines
being made by one of the company’s divisions. Until that
time diesel engines were used mainly in boats, and there
weren’t enough sales to justify continued production. Pratt
persuaded Seabord Coast Line, then in receivership, to
begin using diesel locomotives. The savings proved to be
revolutionary and soon all major railroads were using diesels.

4

Elected a director of General Motors in April 1923,
Pratt was a member of the company’s executive committee
from Sept. 1, 1924, to its dissolution in 1935. He was a
member of the bonus and salary committee for a 10-year
period beginning in 1937. He also served as a member of the
financial policy committee from June 1946 until January
1952.

During World War II, Pratt served the country as an
unpaid consultant and was a moving factor in development
of the Lend-Lease Program and its adoption by Congress.
The head of Lend-Lease, Edward Stettinius, who had worked
under Pratt at General Motors, was a great admirer of
Pratt and asked him to help with the new program.

While getting Lend-Lease organized, Pratt traveled to
a number of countries, including England, where he met
Prime Minister Winston Churchill. Pratt sometimes re-
counted to friends that Churchill had remembered a
visit he made to Fredericksburg in the mid-1920s.

Pratt’s highly retentive memory served him in good
stead when in the 1950s the government brought its
famous anti-trust action against the duPont Company to
force it to divest itself of its holdings in General Motors.

During the years of the long, drawn-out hearings in the
duPont action, depositions taken ran into the millions of
words. Pratt’s testimony alone covers thousands of pages,
since the government contended that he never really left
duPont, but had taken the position at General Motors only
to act on duPont’s behalf.

In his testimony, Pratt cited instance after instance in
which he had taken sides against duPont because he felt
it was best for General Motors. His testimony dealt with a
period of nearly 50 years, yet he was able to recall incidents
which had occurred many years before. ‘Though duPont
was subsequently made to get rid of its GM holdings,
attorneys on both sides were amazed at Pratt’s memory for
detail.

Pratt never forgot his origins on a King George County
farm, and he retained a love for the soil all his life. When
he purchased Chatham and along with it several other
farms in Stafford and King George, he decided to sell the
farms only to young men who were interested in being full-
time farmers. He stuck to that decision though he could
have gotten much more money from the farms by selling
them to others who would not have farmed them full time or
would have developed them for other purposes.

Pratt’s interests were many and diverse. Over a period
of years he provided, anonymously, scholarship funds of
major importance in a number of Virginia colleges and uni-
versities and made a number of important contributions
to Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore, which he served
as a trustee for many years. He also gave scholarship funds

 

to the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.

He took a particular interest in research at universities
and contributed generously to such research. When doing
so he invariably gave an extra measure to support added
expenses involved with research efforts since, to the delight
of college administrators, he realized that extra activity
usually generated additional expenses.

[In a 1958 letter to Dr. Gaines, just after Washington
and Lee announced its program to strengthen facilities and
programs in the sciences, Mr. Pratt wrote: “It is pleasing to
me to see that you are going to attempt to improve the
accommodations at Washington and Lee for the sciences.
When Russia launched their Sputniks, they did one of the
best things for America that even a good friend could have
done: namely, awakening us to the poor job being done
on sciences in American schools.’’]

Pratt always believed that members of college faculties
should be paid well for what they did, and rather than
donate money for buildings (since it was his theory that
funds for new buildings were relatively easy to raise) Pratt

established funds to pay faculty members more.

A civil engineer himself, he often remarked he met few
engineers who could write a good letter, and to help remedy
that he personally established a chair of English in the
Department of Engineering at the University of Virginia.

An entirely new research effort at Johns Hopkins
University had its origins when some cattle on a farm owned
by Pratt died mysteriously. For several weeks he called in
experts who tried in vain to discover the reason for the
deaths.

Then a cattkeman who had once farmed in Texas told
Pratt the disease could be cleared up by adding a tiny bit
of cobalt — a trace element — to the diet of the cows.

Pratt tried it and it worked. That led him to an interest
in the importance of trace elements — or “micronutrients,”
as they are more formally called — and in 1947 he donated
funds to establish the McCollum-Pratt Institute at Johns
Hopkins for studies in that field. McCollum was E. V. Mc-
Collum, a pioneer in the field of the study of vitamins. The
institute continues today and has issued reports of world-
wide importance on micronutrients.

Although Pratt and his wife formed a foundation, it has
concentrated mainly on area and Virginia philanthropies.
Pratt served on the boards of several larger foundations over
a period of years and at one time considered establishing a
large foundation himself.

But as time went by he became disillusioned with large
foundations in general, reaching a personal conclusion that
it was wrong to perpetuate great fortunes long after the
person who acquired the fortune was gone. He felt it would
probably be better to scatter such fortunes on the death of
whoever had acquired them, and he took pains to make
certain the wealth he had acquired would not be self-
perpetuating.

His worth was estimated by Fortune in the mid-1950s at
between $100 and $200 million, but Pratt never bothered
to comment on such speculation.

Pratt’s interest in General Motors extended to every
phase of the company’s operation. He often spent part of
the winter in Arizona and had many friends on the faculty
of the University of Arizona.

When he noticed that some of his faculty friends were
driving small foreign cars, Pratt asked them why. They re-
sponded that the smaller cars were more economical and
were also well made. Convinced, Pratt was among the first
to urge General Motors to get into small-car production.

One of Pratt’s intimate friends was Gen. George C. Mar-
shall, Army chief of staff during World War II and later
Secretary of State. Marshall and Pratt sometimes exchanged
visits at each other’s homes. Pratt helped finance the George
C. Marshall Library at Virginia Military Institute.

by Robert E. R. Huntley

President of the University

Reflections on the Pratt bequest...

The Board of ‘Trustees recently concluded a 2%-day
meeting here on campus; articles elsewhere in this issue of
your magazine will indicate the nature and scope of much
of the board’s work. Considerable discussion of course also
took place regarding the majestic bequest with which John
Lee Pratt has graced our University. I want to share with
you some of the board’s thoughts on that historic gift and
what it means to Washington and Lee.

The board did not make any decision, specific or gen-
eral, about the ways in which Mr. Pratt’s $11-million
bequest will be applied. The meeting occurred only three
weeks, after all, from the day we were notified of the bequest;
distribution of Mr. Pratt’s estate is expected to occur in the
next 12 to 18 months. The board’s view, accordingly, is
that there is neither a pressing need to make any decision
immediately on some quarter-century-long program for apply-
ing the money — nor, really, any valid way in which it could
do so now even if it wished.

For the immediate future, the matter is with the board’s
Finance Committee, which will make an initial report-at
the May meeting, certainly to be followed by continued
discussion at the October 1976 meeting — and probably
followed by discussion at any number of board meetings
beyond that.

What is clear even now, however, is that Mr. Pratt’s
bequest — designated as it is for improved faculty salaries
and for scholarship aid for outstanding students — could
not have come in areas where our needs are more pressing;
nor could it have come at a time when it could do more to
help us maintain that standard of superiority in our faculty
and student body on which Washington and Lee has
traditionally prided itself.

Washington and Lee has been forced for several years
to acknowledge in its annual budgets the facts of rapid
inflation and depressed endowment values. The results have
been felt most acutely in the salaries we pay our faculty and
in the financial aid programs which enable students of
merit to attend Washington and Lee who would not be
able to do so on their own. In each instance, the dollars
we spend have increased each year. However, inflation has
meant that even with modest salary increases our faculty
has lost purchasing power each year, and that the gap
has widened between the costs our scholarship students and
their families are forced to bear and the amount of help
we are able to provide.

In these two crucial respects, then, John Lee Pratt’s
bequest has given us the assurance that we can do more
than merely survive; it has assured us that we can continue
to excel.

At the same time the board remains aware — acutely
aware — that Mr. Pratt’s bequest does not directly address

6

 

President Huntley

our pressing capital requirements. The desperately needed
undergraduate library — plans for which we have had in
hand for some time, awaiting the necessary capital —
remains only fractionally funded. In the four years since
the library was designated as being among our first-priority
needs, inflation (which has hit construction costs with par-
ticular severity) has rendered our initial $5.25-million

                  

7 “The Pratt gift . . . permits us to
| approach our other crucial

 

confidence and far more
concentrated attention . .

  
   
   
     

c

JOHN LEE PRATT

A resolution adopted by the Board of
Trustees of Washington and Lee
Unwwersity, January 31, 1976

estimate virtually obsolete. Our historic. Colonn 2
‘National Landmark, 1s hardly less in need of ext
restoration now w th mn it was s four years ago, w 1en

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

a Throughout its history, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity has relied on — and always has received — the
a support, spiritual and tangible, of those whom |
r. Francis Pendleton Gaines once described as “Friends
a | Education”: men and women “brought into noble
unity me their common dey , otion to an educational

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

u cn a ‘deep and high-
os so too it was

   

and Lee Uni-
i the streng

  
  
 

d’s view one of the most important develo
Washington and Lee. That. conviction was ex.
throughout this most recent | board meeting. —
Perhaps none of our weighty observations p
well, however, as did an alumnus: —a Class Agen
a letter he wrote imn diately after learning o
bequest. As magnificent as the bequest is, he sai
this: “You can starve on cake and ice cream.”
In the end, the members of the board were | 7
awed, quite proud, and thankful beyond measu
of the regard in which Mr. Pratt held our Univ
of all of us has been enriched by this gracious 1
fudged Washington and Lee and concluded me

 

 

    

   

     
     

Oo

 

requirements with far greater

 

 

 

 
   
 
 
 
 

 

  
  
 

 

  
   
     
   
 
  
   

 

 
   

 

 

 

A prominent Memphis, Tenn., business executive,
S L Kopald, has been elected to Washington and Lee’s
Board of ‘Trustees.

Kopald, long an active supporter of W&L and a
former member of the national W&L Alumni As-
sociation Board of Directors, will serve an initial
six-year term as a trustee of the University.

He is president of Humko Sheffield Chemical
Co. of Memphis and was chairman of the Tennessee
Republican Party until last year.

He received the W&L “Distinguished Alumnus
Award” last May.

Kopald is a 1943 B.S. graduate of Washington and
Lee. He was a member of the national W&L alumni
board from 1968 until 1972, and is a member of both
the Generals’ Council and the Robert E. Lee Associates,
the two most prestigious groups of Washington and
Lee supporters.

He was Tennessee GOP chairman from 1971 until
he resigned that post a year ago. Kopald is also ex-
tremely active in civic and religious affairs, locally and
nationally. He is a member of the governing board and
former chairman of Hebrew Union College / Jewish
Institute of Religion, which in 1974 awarded him an
honorary doctorate.

He has also been a director and chairman of the
Memphis branch of the St. Louis Federal Reserve
Board and president, director, or chairman of
‘Temple Israel; the Memphis branch of the National
Conference of Christians and Jews; the YMCA; Red
Cross; Community Chest, and Chamber of Commerce.

Kopald is married to the former Miss Mimi Daves
of Lexington, Va. ‘They have a daughter and three sons.

S L Repaid, 43,
elected to WAL

Board of Trustees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

 

a . -
7 - . a - -
- a . oe
- - - - -
. -
- 7 ~
. - . -
. 7
-
. - -
7 - -
- 7
- .
- -
s

 

  

question in

    
  
    

University’s curri
ways, the data in

that shifts might be

       

   

 

On-campus

 

capital effort

 

nets $60,000,

 

/) per cent

 

participation

 

10

 

Results of on-campus fund-raising effort please Dr. Sensabaugh and President Huntley.

Members of the Washington and Lee
staff contributed almost $60,000 toward
the University’s decade-long development
program in a special on-campus effort
this fall directed by Dr. Leon F. Sensa-
baugh, professor emeritus of history at
W&L and a former dean of the Univer-
sity.

The total contributed was $59,685, ac-
cording to a report Dr. Sensabaugh pre-
sented to the University Board of ‘Trus-
tees last weekend at its mid-winter meet-
ing on the campus.

Dr. Sensabaugh said 336 individuals
— approximately three-quarters of the
University’s personnel, from clerical and
maintenance workers to members of the
faculty and administration — contributed
to the special effort.

Their donations are entirely apart
from contributions which many of them
make to the annual Alumni Fund, Dr.
Sensabaugh pointed out.

The $59,685 pledged was raised be-
tween October and December 1975, and
does not include any capital gifts which

a number of W&L employees made on
their own prior to the University-wide
effort last autumn. If those prior gifts
are included, a total of $140,235 has been
contributed toward the capital develop-
ment program since 1972 — when W&L
began its ambitious development pro-
gram for the 1970's.

The Advisory Committee, which
worked with Dr. Sensabaugh, represent-
ing every category of University person-
nel, has recommended to the trustees that
$25,000 of the money raised this fall on
campus be used to endow a special Uni-
versity Scholarship, and that the rest be
used toward construction of the planned
new undergraduate library.

The special on-campus effort was au-
thorized last summer by the board. Dr.
Sensabaugh, who is not a Washington
and Lee alumnus, agreed to be its chair-
man, though he retired from classroom
teaching at the end of the 1974-75 aca-
demic year. Since then he has devoted
much of his time to the on-campus devel-
opment effort.

by Rich Martin

Mock Convention in review:
the pros are Still watching

The Washington and Lee Mock Con-
vention has always held a particular fas-
cination for reporters. This article, de-
scribing the history of past W&L Con-
ventions and the challenges facing the
student political prognosticators this year,
is reprinted with permission from the
Roanoke (Va.) Times. The author is chief
of the newspaper’s Valley Bureau in Lex-
ington.

Organizers of Washington and Lee
University’s mock presidential conven-
tion, historically the most accurate in
the country, would just as soon forget
1972.

That was the year when, after seven
ballots and considerable wheeling and
dealing, delegates finally succeeded in
drafting Sen. Edward Kennedy as the
Democratic presidential nominee even
though Kennedy’s name had never been
formally placed in nomination.

It was also the first time in 24 years
and just the fifth time since 1908 that
W&L students made the wrong choice in
deciding who the party out of presiden-
tial power would nominate as its candi-
date for the White House.

‘To make matters worse, the students
tapped Arkansas Rep. Wilbur Mills as
Kennedy’s running mate, unaware at
the time of Fanne Fox.

Things may or may not be different
this May 7 and 8 as the 16th Mock Con-
vention gets under way at W&L, but one
thing is for certain: whatever happens,
political observers from across the coun-
try will watch the Lexington campus.

The national interest is a mark of the
respect the W&L convention has won
since 1908, when students got together for
their first attempt at outguessing the
pollsters and pundits who fancy them-
selves experts when it comes to picking
presidential candidates.

The students have done their job re-
markably well, having chosen correctly in

A scene from the 1972 Mock Convention.

 

10 out of 15 tries. And it’s not rare to
see the amateurs presage events in the
actual convention either.

In 1924, for instance, students haggled
through a record 23 roll calls before fin-
ally nominating John W. Davis, a West
Virginia lawyer and a W&L alumnus.

A month later, the Democrats set
their own record of 103 ballots before
agreeing in a stormy New York session
that the college kids may have been right
in the first place.

The W&L Mock Convention is not
an attempt to find out who the students
themselves favor. It is a careful effort to
study the candidates and states and de-
termine the chances each contender has
in each delegation. And therein lies the
importance of the convention, which is
thus raised from a campus popularity
contest to an accurate reflection of the
parties’ and nation’s moods.

Students contact party leaders through-
out the country to measure candidates’
strengths and say they are often able to
gain insights from state and local politi-
cians who otherwise remain tight-lipped
around newsmen and candidates them-
selves.

And so it goes—so effectively, that
until the Kennedy mistake in 1972, W&L
students made correct choices ever since
1948, picking Eisenhower in 1952, Steven-
son in 1956, Kennedy in 1960, Goldwater
in 1964 and Nixon in 1968.

All this is a far cry from the first con-
vention in 1908 when, rumor has it, stu-
dents got together for the first time after
Democratic candidate William Jennings
Bryan visited the town and sparked poli-
tical interest with his own brand of fiery
oratory.

‘The young gentlemen entered into
the meeting with the zest of seasoned
politicians plus the enthusiasm of col-
legians,” the Lexington Gazette reported
on May 6, 1908. But, by the time it was
all over, tempers had flared and fist-fights
had broken out on the floor. Bryan was
nominated on the first ballot, the only
time a candidate was chosen so quickly.

42

 

AA

  
  
 
 

RNG

NES ONS

 
   

Fe

' 7 Ze
Mii MB : ‘Yy
Ws : 7A

  

By 1912, the ruffled feathers of the
previous convention had been smoothed
and students gathered in Lee Chapel to
choose a*.Democratic candidate. After
four ballots, native son Woodrow Wilson
was rejected in favor of dark horse Jud-
son Harmon, the governor of Ohio. Un-
til 1972, the Harmon selection stood as
the only wrong guess W&L made for the
Democrats.

What could be called a Democratic
drought began in 1932, when the stu-
dents nominated Franklin Delano Roose-
velt on the ninth ballot. The choice was
affirmed by the nation’s voters, and it
was not until 24 years later that W&L
would hold its next Democratic conven-
tion.

‘Those years of Democratic hegemony
in the White House were also the darkest
for W&L students who made three wrong
choices in the meantime, going with Sen.
Arthur Vandenburg in 1936 and 1948
and with Sen. Charles McNary in 1940.

With the nomination and election of
Eisenhower in 1952, however, W&L stu-
dents were back in the swing of things,
with the stage set for the first Democratic
convention in 24 years and probably the
most dramatic convention of all.

On hand as keynote speaker in 1956
was Sen. Alben W. Barkely, who had
been ‘Truman’s vice president from
1949 until 1953. More than 1,700 stu-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

DEMOCRAT
ONVENTI

   

ee | +

Sa ee eee

   

fF
2 7 one

   
 
 
 

IC OMATIANR
Lr HN Ai, Ni i

fi
ty
~ os

EEE ORES
efor - onl

SS
N .
S

 

ery

a an

4 uy
if ae 34

: Va?
EA ive

   

aT
VP,

“HA

 

dents and spectators braved 90-degree
April weather to cram into the stuffy
Doremus Gym, where Barkley proclaim-
ed to W&L President Francis Pendleton
Gaines: “I’m having the time of my life!”

It was a highly political speech the
former vice president gave that day, at-
tacking Republicans in general and the
Eisenhower administration in particular.
Arms flailing, Barkley knocked over a
microphone on the lectern and, without
missing a beat, told the students, ‘““That’s
only a symbol of what’s going to happen
to the Republicans this fall.”

As the convention hall grew stuffier,
Barkley continued his, speech, recounting
his own political career. And with a
flourish, he concluded:

‘For I would rather be a servant in
the House of the Lord than sit in the
seats of the mighty.”

As the crowd roared its approval,
Barkley stepped back from the podium
and collapsed dead of a heart attack.
Spectators watched in anguish as doc-
tors worked on the senator in vain. As
Barkley was carried from the building,
the delegates rose for a minute of silent
prayer, then left quickly themselves.

‘That could have been the end of the
’°56 convention had it not been for Bark-
ley’s widow, who insisted that the dele-
gates return to their task. “You have un-
finished business,” she told convention

 

  
  
   

 

 

 

          

 

officials. oe

A week later, the convention re-
sumed. On the fifth ballot, delegates
nominated. Adlai Stevenson, just as their
real-life counterparts would do later that

summer. ae — / oe °

    

   

 

coe . a
chines delayed fir

and gave en

against our record
History and the e Republicans proved
him wrong, of course. Goldwater was

nominated, just as the W&L. students
said he would be. |

All that’s past, though. The questions
now are whether or not W&L will be able
to snap its losing streak and nominate a
winner in 1976 and, if it can, who that
nominee will be.

Answers to those questions will not
be quick in coming. The W&L nomina-
tion won’t be decided until early May,
and it will take the Democrats until mid
summer to decide whether or not they

 

 

 

 

In the meantime, forget 1972. Even
though W&L © students” aren’t infallible
when it comes” . choosing presidential
nominees, they have been able to reduce
their mistakes to a minimum. That’s
something all politicians respect and one
of the reasons presidential hopefuls have,
more than a passing interest in the poli-—
tical game students play: here ‘every four

 

 

    

     

 

 

 

d all the other time-honored political

ae the medium really is the

nly assessing - the gaevailing politi ti

en able to achieve in real. politics,

 

   

 

      

 

 

ODK honors Ravenhorst, Sanders;
Pusey reviews Lee’s ‘magic’

Henry L. Ravenhorst

Two prominent Washington and Lee
graduates—Stuart Sanders II, a Richmond
business executive, and Henry L. Raven-
horst, professor of engineering at the
University and chairman of Lexington’s
Planning Commission—were “tapped”
into honorary membership in Omicron
Delta Kappa, the leadership society
founded here 62 years ago.

Ten undergraduates and three law
students were also elected to member-
ship in ODK, which now has chapters on
more than 100 college campuses through-
out the nation.

The induction of the two honorary
members and the 13 students took place
at a joint convocation marking the birth-
day of Robert E. Lee and W&L’s Found-
ers’ Day. Dr. William W. Pusey III, head
of the German department at W&L and
former dean of The College and acting
president in 1967-68, delivered the prin-
cipal address, “Robert E. Lee: The Im-
plausible Magician,” a study of Lee’s im-

14

 

Stuart Sanders II

pact on the curriculum at Washington
College during his years as president
from 1865 until his death in 1870.

Sanders, a 1931 Washington and Lee
graduate, is president of Sanders Broth-
ers Co., Inc., of Richmond and of Roa-
noke Paint and Glass Supply Co. He is
also a director of Southern Bank and
Trust Co. of Richmond and is a former
president of the National Paint Distribu-
tors Association.

He has long been active in civic and
charitable affairs in Richmond, and in
1945 was named the city’s Young Man of
the Year. He is active in Washington
and Lee alumni affairs as well, and is a
former president of the Richmond alum-
ni chapter, was a class agent, and is a
member of the Robert E. Lee Associ-
ates, W&L’s most generous supporters.

His son, Dr. I. Taylor Sanders II, is
an associate history professor at Wash-
ington and Lee and has been W&L’s of-
ficial University historian since 1972.

 

Ravenhorst, a 1935 W&L graduate,
has been chairman of the Lexington
Planning Commission during develop-
ment of plans for the major renovation
project currently under way in the his-
toric downtown area, as well as during

development and implementation of
strict zoning regulations governing altera-
tions to buildings in that district.

He is a member and former chairman
of the Lexington Electoral Board and
former director of the Natural Bridge
District of the Shenandoah Valley P.T.A.
Professionally, he is a corporate member
of the American Institute of Architects
and has been vice president of the Valley
Association of Architects. He is also wide-
ly active in other civic, historic-preserva-
tion, church and professional activities.

Students who were “tapped” into
Omicron Delta Kappa membership were:

Alan Chipperfield of Kirkwood, Mo.,
a third-year law student who is writing
director of W&L’s Legal Research As-

         

    

 

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

Oo ho 7 ee a OO -
; - ; OS Sty oe ; ;
: : ooh - 7
Fe - - - - -
: - - : - i - - - 7
SO ; : ; “. ;
. ;
;
'

 

           

by Jan Shivel

Polo
comes

On Sunday afternoons in the roll-
ing countryside, pretty girls wrapped in
bright sweaters abound. Little boys
linger enviously by the arena fence for
a better look. Sunglasses and flasks
sparkle in the sunshine. Polo is a fast
game and an exhilarating one — the
ball streaks across the ground, followed
quickly by thundering horses carrying
anxious players. Perhaps this helps
explain why a group of Washington
and Lee men was so enthusiastic about
starting a club, and why friends in town
and around were so eager to help.
Polo has an excitement and a beauty
unmatched by any other sport.

Polo has always, it seems, been as-
sociated in the public mind with people
like Jock Whitney and Tommy Hitch-
cock and Cary Grant — a hobby of the
rich and the glamorous. Their high
jinks and escapades became part of

Jan Shivel says she has never played polo,
“but I’m game.” She is an editorial as-
sistant in Washington and Lee’s Publica-
tions Office.

16

2

America’s lore — but most folks knew
of polo only from the newspapers and
slick society magazines and the movies.
Lately, though, polo — like la-
crosse — has begun to attract the in-
terest of a much wider and much more
diverse set than it used to, both on the
playing field and off. And the faithful
at W&L and in the area now have the
opportunity to thrill to the adventures
and antics of polo practically in their
own back yard, thanks to the newly
formed Washington and Lee Polo Club.
From the humblest beginnings — no
horses, no stables, no arena, no budget —
the equestrian band is riding now hard
on the heels of established success.
Developing an athletic activity,
especially such an expensive one, is
hard work indeed. The greatest cost in
polo, of course, is horses — and that’s
just the beginning. Along with all that
horseflesh comes the responsibility
of dealing with pastures and salt licks,
feed sacks and horseshoes, paddocks and
stables, bridles and saddles, stirrups and

   
  

uniforms, mallets and manure. Then
there are the problems of where to
practice and where to play. And if all
that weren’t enough, it’s necessary to
acquire the sanction of the U.S. Polo
Association, and so begins a round of
triplicate forms and applications.
And, after affiliation with the Polo
Association and acceptance into the in-
tercollegiate polo circuit, you have to
settle down to training your team in
the fundamentals of polo — because

the majority of your players have never
held a mallet before. With all these
considerations in mind, it is perhaps
surprising just how far W&L’s fledgling
club has come.

Taylor Cole, a 1975 graduate, spent
much of his senior year searching for
an arena, generating student interest,
promoting, wheedling and generally
pushing the notion of polo at W&L.
The team has received a lot of outside
help too. Dr. Wayne Raborn, a Lex-
ington dentist and the club’s sponsor,
explained: “The wonderful thing

 

4

about polo players is that they all

have such a love for the sport, they’re
anxious to see new clubs established.
They are unusually helpful in support-
ing them.”

When the word circulated that
Washington and Lee was trying to es-
tablish a polo club, fans from all over
responded. The University of Virginia’s
team donated two polo ponies. Edgar
Staples, a member of the Woodlawn
Polo Club in Ruther Glen, Va., gave
two more. The father of Darnall Boyd
Jr., a sophomore from Columbia, S. C.,
the team captain. contributed another
horse last spring. Dr. Raborn himself
has lent three of his own horses, and he
reports that another gift is in the
offing — John T. Ross, another Wood-
lawn Polo Club member, is anxious to
donate two more horses.

One of the primary objectives of
the club, according to Dr. Raborn, is
“to bring polo back to Rockbridge
County.” Already, several residents
hav reacted enthusiastically. After
the ounty-wide search last year

for an available arena, Dr. Raborn ar-
ranged with the Blue Ridge Riders for
the use of that group’s facilities at no
cost other than a share of gate receipts.
And a Lexington man, James Adams,
whose son James Jr. is a freshman at
Washington and Lee, offered the use

of his pasture land, conveniently located
near the Blue Ridge Arena.

Much still remains to be done — as
Darnall Boyd will attest. Between
classes, midterms and fraternity parties,
he and the 11 other team members man-
age to go out to the arena four or five
times a week during polo season for
practice. Boyd spent much of the
autumn this year coaching the be-
ginners. ““They sit on wooden horses to
practice their swings,” he reports. “Once
they gain a feel for the mallet and the
various positions, we can begin actual
scrimmages.” The club has enough —
horses for practice, but needs “at least
12, to accommodate players from visit-
ing teams.” Many polo teams don’t

 

      

. Charles Hulfish, ’79, and friend relax
after resaddling a mount.

2. W&L player swings for the ball while a
U.Va. team member springs from behind.

3. Where horsepower pays off: W&L and
U.Va. players race for the ball.

4. Paired off like a regiment of dragoons,
W&L and U.Va. players jockey for posi-
tions.

. Mud-spattered team captain, Darnall
Boyd, ’78, waits for the next chukker to
begin.

Or

have the trailers and equipment neces-
sary to transport their own horses to
other arenas, and so by custom, visit-
ing teams depend on the home club to
provide mounts.

At the moment, the W&L Polo Club
is supported by its own members, who
pay $25 in dues each month. The
money is used for pasture, feed and
other incidentals. The members provide
their own saddles and equipment. They
received a $500 loan this year from
the W&L student body treasury to buy
materials to wall the arena — a prere-
quisite, of course, of this kind of polo.
‘They did the work themselves, on week-
ends.

Already the young club has several
matches to its credit. Last April, the
W&L team was host at a United Fund
benefit demonstration match with the
Farmington Club of Charlottesville
and the University of Virginia team;
this fall, the group traveled to Charlottes-
ville for several Sunday matches, and
sponsored a home meet with the Wood-
lawn Club.

17

 

[9th-century
American
painting

at W&L

 

Dr. Simpson In duPont Gallery

After a full year of research, res- in duPont Gallery.
toration and seminar work, an extra- The 18 paintings—which had never
ordinary collection of 19th-century been shown as a group before—included
American paintings owned by Washing- portraits of George Washington, Robert
ton and Lee was exhibited this winter FE. Lee, President James Madison, and

 

The power
of seeming
to be
real

18

 

Miss MclIlvain and an infant’s head sculpture

Washington and Lee’s new sculptor- this winter with a premiere one-woman
in-residence, Isabel MclIlvain, was in- exhibition of a large number of her
troduced professionally to her colleagues works.
at the University and to Lexington In her sculpture, Miss MclIlvain

 

Chief Justice John Marshall, all painted
by well-known American artists.

Also part of the show were land-
scapes, seascapes, a still life, and
several ‘‘genre scenes’”—art which de-
picts everyday life—also by prominent
19th-century painters.

Most of the paintings were care-
fully restored for the exhibition—many
by Dr. Marion M. Junkin, professor
emeritus of art, and others by pro-
fessional restoration experts.

The extensive research into the lives
of each of the artists and commentaries
on each painting were carried out by
a nine-student seminar beginning last
academic year under Dr. Pamela Simp-
son, assistant art history professor.

The students prepared individual
research papers on each artist, dis-
cussed exhibition-planning, and had
responsibility for organization, publicity,
hanging and other arrangements for
the show.

With the aid of a $4,040 grant
from the National Endowment for the
Arts, the University published a 48-
page catalogue with a scholarly com-

 

R. E. Lee (1866), by John Reid

George Washington (c.

Gilbert Stuart

1812-15), by

 

 

says, it is the “coherency” of the figure
that is her overriding aim. “A sculpture
seems real because of the conviction
and the integrity with which it has
been made.”

‘To her, this means her figures must
seem “‘to exist to the core of the work
—not as a decorated shell, but all the
way through to the center, just as we
have learned that forms in nature exist
all the way through to their centers.”’

And she has succeeded in her aspira-
tion to what she calls “this power of
seeming to be real.’’ She has to caution
people who see photographs of some of
her work that the sculptures are in
fact only half-life-size, 30 inches long
or so. Otherwise, she says, they’re often
inclined to think she must have
made a mold of a real person.

One element in her exhibition was
a series of almost three dozen sculptures
of infants’ heads—sleeping, crying, laugh-
ing, gurgling, as babies are wont to do.
To people accustomed to art as politi-
cal message, the heads seem startling.
They shouldn’t, Miss Mcllvain says.
The simple fact of the matter is that

ain:

Sleeping figure (3

ot

0 inches),

by Isabel MclIlvain

 

 

19

 

mentary by Dr. Simpson on the deve-
lopment of a uniquely American ap-
proach to painting and the ways in
which the works in the W&L collection
reflect that movement.

The catalogue also contains photo-
graphic reproductions of each work
and brief biographical and critical
commentaries written by the students
about each artist.

A startlingly realistic “genre” paint-
ing, Teaching Tricks (ca. 1893) by John
G. Brown, is reproduced in color on the
catalogue cover. Technically, accord-
ing to the catalogue, Brown’s drawing,
use of color, and sense of composition
“are always academically perfect. In
Teaching Tricks, the central figures
of the dog and his master are carefully
balanced by a half-circle of eight boys
and a window. Each form is
handled convincingly and every detail
is rendered with accuracy.”

The painting, Dr. Simpson notes
in the catalogue, reflects the end-of-
the-century American longing for, re-
assurance—in the face of seemingly un-

 

 

she sculpts exactly what people see
—and the head of the baby is what
everybody looks at.

Miss MclIlvain studied at Smith
College and the Pratt Institute, then
taught at Sarah Lawrence before join-
ing Washington and Lee’s art faculty
last fall. She maintains a studio in
New York City, and enjoys a fast-grow-
ing reputation in professional circles.
Her works were, for example, on display
in February at Wagner College in New
York, and many of her sculptures are
now included in private collections.

In this article, Miss MclIlvain de-
scribes how she came to develop the
infants’ heads series, and some of the
insights she acquired which she has
applied to her work in general. The
article is adapted from remarks she
delivered at the opening of her Wash-
ington and Lee exhibition.

 

by Isabel MclIlvain

How? Why?

 

In 1967, a close friend had a child.
She was the first close friend of mine
in New York to have a child, and
when I first saw her baby I was struck
by the shape of its head. It had been
pushed around during its brief exis-
tence, but it was beautiful—and its
elongated shape was that of an egg,
possibly an atom of life, floating, it
seemed, on a cloud.

 

20

 

 

checked industrial and urban growth and
the consequent social problems—‘“‘that
their dream had not failed, that life
was still happy, that anybody could

lift himself up by his own boot-
straps if only he were self-reliant and
determined. ... While poor, [Brown's
“enterprising bootblacks and flower
girls” | were also appealingly rosy
cheeked and well fed.”

The catalogue also contains full-
color reproductions of two other paint-
ings in the show—James Madison (c.
1829) by Chester Harding and Land-
scape (1855) by George Inness. ‘The other
photographs are in black and white.

Copies of the catalogue are avail-
able without charge to alumni who
write to Dr. Pamela Simpson, Depart-
ment of Art, Washington and Lee,
Lexington, Va. 24450.

In addition to the Gilbert Stuart
portrait of Washington—one of many
in Stuart’s so-called “Athenaeum” style
which he painted for income—the show
includes an 1866 portrait of Robert E.
Lee, painted while he was president
of Washington College. ‘The portrait,

 

John Marshall (c. 1829), by Chester Harding

 

James Madison (c. 1829), by Chester Harding

 

The baby’s gestures, her expressions,
were purely organic—not expressive of
any emotion we can understand. I had
no control over her, nor really any
ability to know or understand what
she was feeling, no ability to communi-
cate with a look or smile (which re-
assures both sender and receiver).

So I made that—a single rounded
shape, a complete life form, a form
that might suggest all life forms, or
perhaps another, as-yet-unknown life
form. I made it to look not as though
it is merely a part of anything, but
complete.

This has disturbed many people.
But let me suggest that it is in truth
the awesome quality of a real infant
that disturbs.

In thinking about why the infants
“worked,” I began to be aware of
some elements which seemed to have
contradicted my previous efforts with
adult figures—seeking to achieve a
similarly successful expression of my
feeling about the world, so that when
they looked at it people would perceive
that feeling in themselves.

 

The most obvious circumstance is
that infants, while intensely alive, are
in a pre-psychological state. Their ex-
pressions mean something within the
organism, but nothing in relation to
you and me. With a standing or sitting

 

adult figure, the posture and_ physical
appearance indicate a personality
with which we can identify (or which
we can reject as unlike us).

It is this expression of personality

 

21

 

by John Reid, was described by Junkin
as one of the finest of Lee in existence.
Before Junkin restored it, the portrait—
which was not on public display—was

so soiled and discolored that the image
was difficult to see.

The paintings of Chief Justice
John Marshall and President James
Madison in the show, both of which
have been widely reproduced in history
texts and elsewhere, were painted by
Harding during the Virginia Con-
stitutional Convention of 1829.

The exhibition also included eight
landscapes and seascapes, with several
in the Hudson River style, in which
art strove to become “‘a visual ser-
mon... revealing of God’s presence,’
according to Dr. Simpson’s introduction
to the catalogue. In addition to Inness’
Landscape, the group included works
in this style by John F. Kensett, Jasper
F. Cropsey, and William Mason Brown.

The “‘genre scenes’’—depictions of
everyday life—ranged from “Seaweed
Gatherer” by Robert Swain Gifford, in
which the influence of the French
Barbizon School is evident, to Arthur

Landscape (1855) by George

 

Inness

 

and emotional attitude that has been
used by artists to express that “soul”
which they have felt to be most im-
portant—more significantly “real” than
the purely physical. And our knowledge
of, familiarity with, that psychological
aspect gives us a feeling of control

over the figure; we have had experience
with similar personalities, and know
how to relate to them. It is much the
same as the difference between talking
to someone face to face as opposed to
talking with him on the telephone.
Face to face, we know his responses
and can tailor ours accordingly—

we feel more in control of the situa-
tion.

This response on the part of the
viewer of a sculpture—that he senses him-
self in control of his responses to the
figure—increases as the figure becomes
more biologically “real”; this re-
sponse becomes more individual as it
becomes less idealized, abstract, or
physically neutral.

And it was this that had contradict-
ed my previous efforts to have my
figures appear as organisms only (but

 

 

22

 

F. Tait’s “Cows and Ducks,” which
Tait described as one of his “speciality
paintings” —a medium-size, moderately
priced animal scene.

Simpson concludes that as a group,
the 18 paintings in the Washington
and Lee exhibition reflect “the rise of
a native [American] school. No longer
did artists aspire to the European-
derived, noble-minded concept of
‘history painting.’ Instead, the heroic
aims of that style had been transferred
to landscape and genre work—and in
that uniquely American soil, they took
root.”

All but one of the paintings in the
show were given to Washington and
Lee by benefactors—primarily by Vincent
L. Bradford, a wealthy Philadelphia
lawyer who received two honorary de-
grees from the University (one in
1874, the other six years later) and
who bequeathed his art collection to
the college at his death in 1884, and
by Thomas F. Torrey II, a 1928 Wash-
ington and Lee graduate who donated
eight paintings to the University in
1957.

 

Cows and Ducks (1872), by Arthur F. Tait

 

similar to ourselves, and beautiful).

The other critical aspect is that the
infants are more realistic—not only
because of the details of anatomy, but
also because they are uncomposed.
Classical composition imposes an order
on reality the effect of which is similar
to an abstraction of organic form: it is
removed from our experience of life.
Composition is irrelevant in a simple
rounded head, in which the parts are
related in a largely fixed way.

But it is a problem making an
uncomposed standing figure without its
being tedious to look at—or, at any
rate, I have been unsuccessful so far in
my efforts.

So both problems were resolved in
my decision to have my figures sleep.
My intention is to make the figures as
organically real as possible, so that in
looking at the stomach, for example,
one senses the back—senses the whole
insides in a biological sense. I intend to
make about 25 such figures—so as to
have enough to permit everybody who
looks at them to identify with at least
one.

 

The sculptures are from the series by
Isabel MclIlvain. The infant, one month
old when the photos were taken, is Sarah,
the daughter of Mr. and Mrs. John K.
Jennings. Prof. Jennings teaches in the
University’s Department of Journalism
and Communications.

 

23

de news briefs

LAW, BUSINESS, MEDICINE

REMAIN TOP W&L CAREER CHOICES

O More than a quarter of this year’s freshman class at Wash-
ington and Lee—four times the national men’s average—say
they intend to become lawyers, according to a 366-college
SUIVEY.

Almost 20 per cent reported they plan to enter business,
slightly above the national figure for male freshmen, and 16
per cent, more than double the national average, said they
plan to become physicians or dentists.

The proportions are roughly the same as they have been
each year since 1970. The survey is taken each fall by the
American Council on Education with the cooperation of
UCLA, and survey results are compiled both for every in-
dividual college and for the nation’s freshmen as a whole.
The national averages are broken down as well by sex, per-
mitting a comparison of W&L’s freshman class with the rest of
the nation’s male freshmen.

In total, law, business and medicine account for 63.3 per
cent of the career choices at W&L—but only 30.8 per cent
among male freshmen nationally, the survey showed.

Politically, the complexion of W&L’s entering class this
year is almost exactly the same as it was last year, according
to each freshman’s characterization of himself. The largest
single group, 40.2 per cent, views itself as “middle of the
road.” The national men’s average was 48.7 per cent.

But almost twice as many W&L freshmen—33.1 per cent—
said they see themselves as “conservative” than did male
freshmen throughout the nation (17.9 per cent). Only 25.6 per
cent at W&L said they are “liberal” or “far left” politically,
against 32.4 per cent nationally.

Following their traditional pattern, W&L’s freshmen in-
dicated on the survey that the University’s “good academic
reputation” was “very important” in choosing the school—
86.5 per cent, versus 49.9 per cent of male freshmen na-
tionally who gave that reason. And 72.8 per cent said W&L
was their first choice.

In assessing their own academic abilities, W&L’s fresh-
men as a group saw themselves as superior in mathematical
skills, reading, composition, foreign languages, history, and
“study habits’”—and below average in science, vocational skills,
and musical and artistic ability.

McCORMICK RECEIVES GIFT OF LETTERS

CO) Maj. James W. Shugart III, ’61, has given McCormick Li-
brary three letters relating to the Civil War period. The
letters, one dated 1862 and two 1864, were written by Shu-
gart’s kinsman, George P. Harding, a Kentuckian. Shugart
came across them in the attic of his home. Dr. J. Holt Mer-
chant Jr., assistant professor of history at Washington and
Lee, a classmate of Shugart, examined the letters and said
they “provide a brief but fascinating glimpse into the life of
a Kentuckian who chose to go West rather than participate in
the Civil War.” In one, Harding described a spectacular hur-
ricane that all but destroyed the ship on which he was tra-
veling to California. In another, he explained that he had
refused to join either army in the conflict because he was un-
willing to fight against his friends. Dr. Merchant summed up:
“I regret only that the collection does not contain several

24

 

—_

7

Dr. J. Holt Merchant (left) and classmate Maj. James W. Shugart
III, examine letters Shugart has donated to W&L’s library.

dozen more letters as useful as these three.’’ Maj. Shugart,
since September, has been professor of military science and
tactics at the University of Virginia.

PRE-MEDICAL STUDIES FOLDER PUBLISHED

UL] The University has just published a brochure, the first in
a planned series of new admissions publications, describing
pre-medical studies at Washington and Lee. The folder dis-
cusses the nature of W&L’s approach to pre-medical educa-
tion, the strengths of the University’s curriculum in the fields
traditionally associated with pre-med studies, and the specific
areas in which most medical schools demand proficiency from
applicants. The folder is directed at secondary-school students
who are evaluating colleges (and at their guidance counselors)
as well as at W&L students who are considering medical
school; copies are available to interested alumni from the
Admissions Office.

W&L plans to develop similar folders in coming months
describing opportunities at the University in a number of
other fields, including pre-legal studies, fine arts, journalism,
the social sciences and other disciplines and areas.

NEW BICENTENNIAL SPEAKERS’ BUREAU

QO A Bicentennial speakers’ bureau—manned by W&L. stu-
dent debate team members—has been created to deliver talks
to civic groups, clubs and other organizations. The students’
speeches are either informational or persuasive; students have
chosen their own topics for the series. The program is spon-
sored by an American Bicentennial grant from the Virginia
Internship Program.

CONTACT EYES CAMPAIGN ’76

QO Contact, with an eye toward Presidential politics and the
W&L Mock Convention, opened its exploration of the
American political scene by co-sponsoring appearances by
Rep. Morris K. Udall, one of the field of Democrats who
aspire to the party’s Presidential nomination, and Washing-
ton Post political writer David Broder. Contact has also
scheduled appearances by Fred Graham, the CBS News legal-

 

‘
5 oes i
POS #

Democratic Presidential hopeful Rep. Morris K. Udall met
with students during recent visit to W&L campus.

affairs reporter; Jeff MacNelly, the Pulitzer Prize-winning
political cartoonist for the Richmond News Leader (whose
cartoons appear in more than 200 newspapers throughout the
country via syndication); Charles R. McDowell Jr., a W&L
eraduate who is the Capitol correspondent and columnist for
the Richmond Times-Dispatch; Jimmy Breslin, the icono-
clastic author (The Gang That Couldn’t Shoot Straight; How
The Good Guys Finally Won); author Truman Capote (Jn
Cold Blood); and the controversial lawyer (Chicago Seven,
etc.) William Kuntsler.

OTHER SPEAKERS

1] Other speakers who have visited W&L so far this year
under a variety of programs have included William J. Small,
director of news operations for CBS; Howard Nemeroy, the
poet, novelist and critic; Leo Gruliow, Moscow correspondent

 

SYMPATHY FOR A SMALL TYRANNY

This column is unequivocal in its defense of the
First Amendment but it is hard not to sympathize with
a small, unofficial blow at freedom of speech at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

It seems that the student body’s Executive Commit-
tee had gotten all it could take of the words “input”
and ‘feedback.’ So it voted, 7 to 2, to ban them from
future student government meetings. The penalties
are censure and prayers for divine retribution.

Now we can’t support the principle of repression.
But since the committee has already infringed on the
First Amendment, why not go just a bit further? How
about also banning use of the word “like” to begin a
sentence and the expression “y’know” to end one?
Like y’know?e

—The Wall Street Journal. Reprinted
with permission. © 1976: Dow Jones
& Co. Inc. All rights reserved.

 

 

 

 

William J. Small (right), CBS News president, in journalism
ethics seminar at W&L. Prof. R. H. MacDonald is at left.

for the Christian Science Monitor; William ‘T. Syphax, presi-
dent of Syphax Enterprises, the third-largest black-owned
business in the United States; and Sarah Ragle Weddington,
the Texas state representative who argued the historic 1973
Supreme Court case overturning restrictive abortion laws.

PROFESSIONAL ACTIVITY

UO Dr. John F. DeVogt, professor of administration and de-
partment head, has been named to the State Advisory Com-
mittee on Teacher Education, which helps evaluate teacher
preparation programs and certification regulations for Vir-
ginia’s public schools. DeVogt is a member and former chair-
man of the Lexington City School Board and was president
last year of the Virginia School Boards Association.

) Drs. William A. Jenks and H. Marshall Jarrett participated
in panels at the annual meeting of the Southern Historical
Association this winter. Dr. Jenks was chairman of a session
on “The Austrian Right from 1919 to the Anschluss.” Dr.
Jarrett presented a critique and commentary on two other
papers, “The Frozen Moment: Descartes and the Early 17th
Century” and “Reason and Reform: Newton and French
Liberalism in the 18th Century.”

U Dr. David G. Elmes, professor of psychology, presented a
paper, “Rehearsal and Imagery Effects on Long-Term Re-
cency,’’ to the annual meeting of the Psychonomic Society in
Denver recently. Elmes wrote the paper with a Washington
and Lee senior, J. Arthur Wood, a psychology major. The re-
sults of the research, sponsored by a Robert E. Lee Research
Grant, demonstrate that elaborate rehearsal during learning
leads to easier utilization of memorized information than do
more simple kinds of rehearsal techniques.

C] Dr. Harry T. Williams, assistant professor of physics, and
David P. Dempsher, a 1975 W&L graduate who is now a
student in Johns Hopkins Medical School, are the co-authors
of “Quadrupole Moment of the Deuteron: Effect of Baryon
Resonances,” published in Nuovo Cimento, an Italian Scienti-
fic magazine. The article proposes an experiment to determine

25

whether the nucleus of deuterium, also called “heavy hydro-
gen,” is composed of one proton and one neutron as tradition-
ally thought, or whether it is composed of similar particles—
called baryon resonances—which have positive and neutral
charges, but are slightly heavier in weight. It is not possible
actually to conduct such an experiment because of a lack of
technology, but the article suggests that the baryon reson-
ances will be found in the nucleus rather than the proton and
neutron.

O Three current or former staff photographers for Washing-
ton and Lee were among six award winners this winter in the
first Lynchburg Juried Photography Show. They are Sally
Munger Mann, now staff photographer; W. Patrick Hinely,
a University photographer from 1974 until this winter; and
Robert H. Lockhart, who was the staff photographer from
1972 until 1974.

O A W&L economics professor, Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr.,
was elected president this winter of Omicron Delta Epsilon,
the international honorary society in economics. ODE has
chapters on more than 300 college campuses throughout the
world. Phillips is a nationally recognized authority in the
area of regulation of utilities and is a consultant to many of
the largest corporations in the United States. He is also a
Presidentially appointed member of the blue-ribbon White
House panel to study the nation’s gambling laws.

HOORAY FOR HOLLYWOOD

QO Fancy Dress this year promised to be even bigger and
even more glamorous and elegant than it had been in the past,
as the Washington and Lee student body moved in late Feb-
ruary into the fantasy world of Tinseltown in “A Salute to
Hollywood.”

The Jimmy Dorsey Orchestra (directed these days by Lee
Castle) played at the formal Fancy Dress Ball; the Dixieland
Bearcats were booked too for a return Fancy Dress appearance.
(That group was here two years ago, provided by the stu-
dents mostly as a gesture of courtesy toward the old folks on
the faculty—but to their wonderment, the students found
themselves as taken by “that kind of music” as were their

 

 

elders.) MGM’s nostalgia escapade, That’s Entertainment, was
shown continuously through the evening in one room of the
Student Center (adjacent to Evans Hall, where the Ball itself
took place); there were even old newsreels and cartoons in
another room and a floor show (‘‘a master hypnotist’ who
practiced on his audience) in yet another.

This year’s was the 69th Fancy Dress Weekend, “‘the out-
standing collegiate social event in the South.” (After a de-
cline in the late 1960s, students resurrected Fancy Dress sev-
eral years ago with smashing success, and it has continued to
grow each year since.)

THE NON-RETIREMENT OF O. W. RIEGEL

O Prof. O. W. Riegel has been retired since 1973—but that
hardly means he has been idle. Lately, by way of example,
he has delivered a formal statement about federal regula-
tion of medical devices and has published an article critical
of the failure of governments throughout the world to guar-
antee the intellectual independence of international satellite
broadcasting.

Maynard Ferguson, one of today’s
outstanding jazz trumpeters, visited
Washington and Lee this winter to
work with the W&L Jazz Ensemble
and to present a public concert in
an overflowing Lee Chapel

(photo). Ferguson’s visit and the
concert were sponsored by the Music
Department and the W&L ROTC
department (patrons of the campus
jazz group).

 

Lewis Hall, viewed from the west with parking area in foreground.

Riegel called on the medical profession and the companies
which make life-sustaining medical devices (the heart valve
and the pacemaker, for instance) to accept strict regulation,
uniform standards, and instantaneous “recall” and_physician-
notification procedures when potential defects are discovered.
He made his statement at a conference on device regulation
sponsored jointly by the federal Food and Drug Administra-
tion and the Association for the Advancement of Medical In-
strumentation.

His article on the problems of political manipulation of
international satellite broadcasting was published in East
Germany by Karl Marx University. (Although he was sharply
critical of totalitarianisms, especially those in the “Third
World” which seem to use broadcasting as a means of preserv-
ing incumbent regimes, Riegel reports the article was un-
changed from his manuscript.) Riegel noted that the United
Nations has been almost wholly ineffective in its nominal at-
tempts to provide solutions to the problem—Unesco, he notes,
“presumably dedicated to the expansion of the knowledge and
experience of all the peoples of the world,” has authorized
unilateral interference by any government with broadcasting
if the government thinks to do so is in the interest of “self-
defense.” Unless the world’s scholarly community begins to
“press its judgments and recommendations” on governments,
Riegel declares, the intellectuals will find themselves reduced
instead to producing hollow “inventories, analyses and sche-
matics—or, perhaps, an epitaph.”

Riegel taught journalism at Washington and Lee for +43
years until his retirement in 1973. For most of that time, he
was head of the Department of Journalism and Communica-
tions.

LEWIS HALL MOVES TOWARD

COMPLETION LATER THIS YEAR

C] Washington and Lee’s new law building, Lewis Hall, has
been essentially completed, and work now concentrates prin-
cipally on finishing the interior and landscaping. The Uni-
versity expects to begin moving into the 121,000-square-foot,
$7-million facility this spring, and it will be ready for classes
in September.

Construction of the building is supported by the $9-mil-
lion gift in 1972 from Frances and Sydney Lewis of Rich-
mond, for whom it is named. Lewis, a W&L graduate and
trustee, is president and board chairman of Best Products Inc.,
the catalogue-showroom retail chain; Mrs. Lewis is executive
vice president of Best.

Lewis Hall, located just to the west of the Front Campus,
will contain some of the nation’s most sophisticated facilities
for law study and legal research. Every student will have his
or her own office-type study area, connected electronically to
a central audio-visual “media control room” and_ closed-
circuit production studio. Lewis Hall will also have a full-
scale “courtroom” with videotape facilities which will allow
students to practice their courtroom techniques and view
themselves on “instant replay” for criticism and improve-
ment.

The building will house a technologically advanced law
library with a capacity of 250,000 volumes; also located in it
will be the Frances Lewis Law Center, where students, pro-
fessors and visiting scholars will have the opportunity to
engage in seminars, original research and other scholarly
activity related to legal problems which lie “‘at the frontiers of
the law.”

27

Chapter news

HOUSTON. Washington and Lee alum-
ni of the Houston area joined alumni
and alumnae of seven other Virginia col-
leges at an “Old Dominion Party” at the
Forest Club on Nov. 14. ‘The participants
enjoyed a plentiful cocktail buffet deco-
rated with a Virginia state flag and Bi-
centennial displays. ‘The colleges repre-
sented besides W&L were the University
of Virginia, VMI, VPI, Sweet Briar, Hol-
Randolph-Macon Woman’s,
Mary Baldwin. ‘There was general agree-
ment afterwards that the party should

lins, and

be made an annual event.

BALTIMORE. A black-tie dinner meet-
ing, heralding a Christmas season of
gaiety and good fellowship, was held at
the Maryland Club on Dec. 6, attract-
ing one of the largest groups of alumni
on record in the Baltimore area. A cock-
tail period preceded the dinner, and a
roving three-man musical group enter-
tained the group with stirring renditions
of the “Swing” and other college songs.
Distinguished guests, all accompanied by
their wives, included E. Marshall Nuc-
kols Jr., ’33A, ’35L, rector of the Board
of ‘Trustees, and Edwin J. Foltz, ’40L, a
member of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors, both of Philadelphia; Robert E. R.
Huntley, president of the University;
Roy L. Steinheimer, dean of the School of
Law; Farris Hotchkiss, director of de-
velopment, Bill Washburn, alumni secre-
tary, and Marty Bass, assistant alumni
secretary. James Maffitt, ’64A, ’66L, chap-
ter president, presided and introduced
the guests, singling out from Baltimore,
Frank C. Brooks, ’46A, a member of the
Board of Trustees, and Charles C. Stieff,
a member of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors. President Huntley reported on the
University, pointing out significant and
meaningful events in its past. His talk
was well received and was followed by
a brief question-and-answer period. Maf-
fitt expressed appreciation
chapter commitees for their work during
the past year and thanked all who made
arrangements for the meeting.

28

to various

BIRMINGHAM. Mike Luttig, ’76, of
Tyler, ‘Texas, a senior, was guest speaker
at a luncheon at the Roadway Inn on
Dec. 15. Mike is president of Omicron
Delta Kappa leadership fraternity, a
dormitory counselor, and secretary of the
student body last year. He gave the chap-
ter an up-to-minute report on student
life at the University and outlined cur-
rent student concerns. Mike was on his
way home for Christmas and was the
guest of Dr. John Poynor, ’62.

WASHINGTON, D.C. A large number
of alumni turned out for the traditional
holiday luncheon on Dec. 29 at the Uni-
versity Club. Several current students and
prospective students and their fathers
were present. Among the guests from
the University were Bill Noell, ’64, as-
sociate director of admissions and co-
ordinator of the freshman year; Gary
Franke, wrestling coach; and Bill Wash-
burn, alumni secretary. Noell spoke on
student affairs at the University, Franke
on the athletic program, and Washburn
on programs of the Alumni Association.
Robert Frost, 68, outgoing chapter presi-
dent, presided, introduced the guests,
and recognized the new students. ‘The
following new officers were elected: John
Zamoiski, ’74, president; Jay Meriwether,
‘70, vice president; Jeff I'wardy, ’67, sec-
retary; and Don Sigmund, ’59, treasurer.
Zamoiski thanked Frost for his leader-
ship during the past year and urged all
members to participate fully in chapter
activities during the coming year.

PALMETTO. President and Mrs. Ro-
bert E. R. Huntley were guests of honor
at a reception and dinner at the Caro-
lina Inn in Columbia, S. C., on Jan. 16.
The occasion was the first social event of
the recently reactivated chapter. A large
group of alumni and friends from a
wide area in South Carolina attended.
Phil Grose Jr., ’60, chapter president,
presided; he was assisted by Wilson Lear,
51, and John Folsom, ’73. President
Huntley spoke on the status of the Uni-

versity, citing those high points in its her-.
itage which continue to sustain it. Alum-
ni Secretary Bill Washburn and _ Assis-
tant Alumni Secretary Marty Bass also
attended the meeting and spoke briefly
on the activities of the Alumni Associa-
tion. The meeting ended with a rousing
rendition of the “Swing” led by Presi-
dent Huntley.

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA. The
Eastern North Carolina chapter was in-
augurated on Jan. 22 at a reception-din-
ner at Balentines in Raleigh, N. C., with
President and Mrs. Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley as guests of honor. Also honored
guests were two members of the Board of
Trustees, John L. Crist Jr., 45, of Char-
lotte and J. Alvin Philpott, ’45, of Lex-
ington, N. C. Spadework for organizing
the chapter and holding the meeting was
done by William Poole, ’70, who had met
earlier with Assistant Alumni Secretary
Marty Bass. Poole is with the mortgage
division of Wachovia Bank and Trust
Co. and expects to move soon to Win-
ston-Salem. He was assisted in the ar-
rangements by Matt Towns, ’74, chapter
treasurer. James ‘I. Hedrick, ’50, of Dur-
ham, acting president, conducted the
meeting. President Huntley reported on
the University and discussed briefly the
significance of the bequest to the Uni-
versity by the late John Lee Pratt. He
congratulated alumni in Eastern North
Carolina for organizing the chapter. Ed-
mund (Eddie) Cameron, ’24, an outstand-
ing athlete at Washington and Lee who
retired recently after many years as
coach and athletic director at Duke Uni-
versity, took the podium for a moment
to present to President Huntley three
footballs symbolizing three Washington
and Lee victories in 1923: W&L 12-VPI
0; W&L 20-N. C. State 12; W&L 7-U.Va.
0. Also recognized was Courtney Mauzy,
61, of Raleigh, a member of the Alumni
Board of Directors. Others present from
the University community were Mr. and
Mrs. W. C. Washburn and Mr. and Mrs.
Marty Bass.

 

e

 

 

 

W&L’s Summer Institute
Business

for Careers in

A Summer Institute for Careers in
Business—an intensive 27-day program
designed to help today’s college student
make the transition from the classroom
to the business world—will be conducted
at Washington and Lee from June 6 to
July 2. The institute is open to college
juniors and graduating seniors, both
men and women, who are planning busi-
ness careers. ‘The participants need not
have had previous formal business train-
ing. The program is aimed particularly at
students of the liberal arts, sciences, and
engineering, offering them insights into
business principles and career oppor-
tunities. Those attending will learn:

@ ‘The fundamentals of business ad-

ministration.

@ How to further develop and focus

career interests.

@ How to capitalize on

knowledge and experience.

existing

@ How to prepare for today’s job mar-

ket.

In addition to formal instruction and
practical application of business prin-
ciples, students will have a unique op-
portunity to meet informally with practic-
ing business executives and learn first-
hand what qualities employers seek in
college graduates.

The institute has been organized and
will be taught by Dr. John F. DeVogt,
Ph.D., professor of administration; Dr.
Joseph F. Goldsten, Ph.D., associate pro-
fessor of administration, and Dr. Law-
rence M. Lamont, Ph.D., associate pro-
fessor of administration. “Throughout
the program, students will have ample
opportunity to meet with faculty mem-
bers to discuss career interests and benefit
from their many years of teaching and
business experience.

The curriculum will help students
transfer skills already developed through
training in the liberal arts, sciences, or
engineering to the business community.
Through formal teaching sessions, semi-
nars, and workshops, they will
about the American business system and
the vocabulary and fundamentals of busi-

30

learn

 

Dr. DeVogt

 

Dr. Goldsten

 

Dr. Lamont

ness administration. They will make
actual business decisions by participating
in ‘The Executive Game, a computerized
management exercise widely
training corporate executives. Through-
out the program, the curriculum will be
supplemented by audio-visual materials,
visits to business firms, and guest speak-
ers from a variety of businesses.

The innovative curriculum is model-

used in

ed after Washington and Lee’s highly
successful and challenging program in
business administration. ‘The institute
will cover American Business and Its En-
vironment; Fundamentals of Business Ad-
ministration, including Management and
Personnel Administration, Markets and
the Fundamentals of Marketing, Finan-
cial Management and Accounting, Pro-
duction Management and Manufacturing
Systems, and Computers and Business
Analysis; and The Executive Game—The
Practical Application of the Fundamen-
tals of Business Administration.

No formal examinations are schedul-
ed during the program, but students will
have considerable opportunity to evalu-
ate their knowledge of fundamentals
through participation in The Executive
Game. At the end of the program, a
certificate will be presented by Washing-
ton and Lee University to the participat-
ing students, signifying their successful
completion of the program.

All classes, workshops, and seminars
will be conducted in comfortable,
conditioned classrooms in Early-Fielding
Student Center. They will be housed in
the new, spacious, air-conditioned Woods
Creek Apartments and take their meals
at the University’s Evans Dining Hail.
Students will have full use of the Univer-
sity’s academic and recreational facilities.
No formal instructional sessions are plan-
ned for the weekends, so the participants
will have ample opportunities for re-

air-

creation on and off campus.

Total cost of the program is $875.00
This comprehensive fee
covers all instruction, room with linen
service, all meals (including weekends),
refreshments, all books and instructional
materials, and the use of all University
facilities.

per person.

A folder describing the program in
full and containing an application form
is available by writing or calling one of
the faculty members: Washington and
Lee University, Summer Institute for Ca-
reers in Business, Lexington,
24450; Telephone (703) 463-9111.

Virginia

 

 

 

  

 

 

welcome ye a Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or ae

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

     

  

editorial page for the past nine years.
began his _hewspaper career with the old
Pittsburgh Post in 1926, then stayed | on
with the Post-Gazette until _ 1982 After a

 

 

he returned to. "Pittsburgh as ‘editorial wri-
ter. Until last year, Taylor had covered every

“election since 1932 and every national politi-
cal conv ention since 1940

 

sO -

e

 

WILTON M. (Rep ) Garrison has retired after
20 years as sports editor of the Charlotte,
N. C. Observer and 40 years in the news-
paper business. —

  

 

 

      

 

 

    

*

a

   

 

 

 

 

 

oe

 

 

AP in Memphis and Richmond. He and his
wife have one daughter.

WILLIAM E. RAWLINGS, group vice president-
diversified companies, of the Gillette Com-
pany, is director of several subsidiary com-
panies. He is a director of both Welcome
Wagon International and the Felicitas Co.,
both community information and greeting
services. He is also director of Jafra Cos-
metics which is headquartered in Los An-
geles, Calif. Rawlings is on the board of
the S. T. Dupont Co., which manufactures
and markets luxury cigarette lighters and
writing instruments.

Since July 1975, J. TAYLor WILLIAMS has
served as Judge, Tenth District Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Courts in the Virginia
counties of Appomattox, Buckingham,
Charlotte, Cumberland, and Prince Edward.

1955

JoHN W. ENGLISHMAN is teaching history at
Washington-Lee High School in Arlington,
Va.

Lewis P. JAcosy is director of manufactur-
ing for the Milford Rivet & Machine Co., a
subsidiary of Raybestos-Manhattan. He is in
charge of operations of fastner plants in Mil-
ford, Conn., Hatboro, Penn., Elyria, Ohio
and Fullerton, Calif. He began with Mil-
ford Rivet in 1957. Jacoby lives in Conn.

Dr. O. BERTRAND RAMSAY is professor of
chemistry at Eastern Michigan University

in Ypsilanti.
MARRIAGE: WIt.iAM B. NorturupP to Sally

D. Kelley, on Nov. 7, 1975. The couple lives
in Pittsburgh, Pa.

Dr. RONALD GUTBERLET, professor of pedia-
trics at the University of Maryland School
of Medicine, was a speaker at the Seventh
Annual Symposium for Nurses in Hagers-
town, Md. on Nov. 6. He discussed the lat-
est techniques available for treating severe
birth defects in children. Dr. Gutberlet is
coordinator of a pediatric intensive care
unit at the University of Maryland Hospital,
where special care is provided for birth de-
fective children.

1957

LAWRENCE A. ATLER, an attorney in Denver,
Colo., has recently been appointed as one
of four trustees to the newly created $5-
million Davis Institute for the Care and
Study of the Aging. He has also been ap-
pointed to the executive committee of Van

34

Boosting the University at

the W&L-Denison football
game were Peter Noonan, ’64,
Warren Holden, ’65, and
Bob Patton, ’65, all of Spring-
field, Ohio.

Schaack and Co., a regional full service real
estate, insurance, management, mortgage
and development company. Atler also serves
as general counsel and board member of
the Metro National Bank in Denver. Atler
is married to the former Miss America,
Marilyn Van Derbur. On a recent European
trip, Mrs. Atler addressed a European
council on English speaking schools concern-
ing her new educational and motivational
program which is being marketed through-
out the world.

JorL H. BERNSTEIN will take a leave of ab-
sence from his duties as Associate Professor
of Art History at the Univ. of Montana,
to serve as project director for “Indian Pride
on the Move,” a five year traveling exhibi-
tion of Indian art jointly sponsored by the
National Park Service and the University of
Montana.

Dr. Harry A. FozzArp has been appointed
to chair the Otho S. A. Spraque Professor-
ship of Medical Science in the Division of
the Biological Sciences and the Pritzker
School of Medicine at the University of
Chicago. Dr. Fozzard, a cardiologist, special-
izes in the study of heart rhythms—par-
ticularly irregular rhythms—that are a
principal cause of heart failure. He has
been professor in the Dept. of Medicine and
Pharmacological and Physiological Sciences,
joint director of the Cardiology Section of
the Dept. of Medicine and director of the
Biomedical Computation Facility at the Uni-
versity of Chicago. Dr. Fozzard is the author
and co-author of numerous published re-
search papers; he is a member of the edi-
torial board of the American Journal of
Physiology. Dr. Fozzard has served as chair-
man of the National Institute of Health and
is currently a member of the Veterans Ad-
ministration Cardiology Merit Review Board.

H. MERRILL PLAIsTED III, vice president of
Morton G. Thalheimer, Inc., and president
of the Richmond Board of Realtors, has
received the President’s Honor Board Award
from the Virginia Association of Realtors.
The award is given to selected board presi-
dents and to boards excelling in prescribed
areas of professional and community service.
In addition, Plaisted was elected to the
Board of Directors of the Society of In-
dustrial Realtors at their annual meeting in
San Francisco. He will represent the society
in Virginia, West Virginia, Maryland and
the District of Columbia. The society is a
national network of realtors who specialize
in industrial real estate.

JorpAN M. SmiTH teaches American con-
stitutional history at the University of
North Carolina. He expects to complete his
Ph.D. dissertation this Spring.

1958

Dr. MARK SMULSON, an associate professor
at Georgetown University School of Medi-
cine, delivered a lecture to the Washington
and Lee Chemistry Department on Oct. 14,
entitled “The Molecular Biology of the
Eucaryotic Cell Cycle.’’ Smulson lives in
Washington, D. C, with his wife and two
sons.

L359

Dr. WILLIAM S. HARRISON is president of the
Western Shore Dental Society. He was re-
cently promoted to the rank of commander
in the U.S. Naval Reserve.

JoHN W. SINWELL was recently elected to
the board of trustees of the University of
Virginia’s Darden Graduate Business School
Sponsors. He had previously served as chair-
man of the board of the Darden School
Alumni Association.

1960

PHILIP G. GROSE JR., former executive as-
sistant for governmental relations office of
the president, at the University of South
Carolina, has been appointed chief deputy
commissioner of the South Carolina Depart-
ment of Social Services. The agency has
charge of State Medicaid, public welfare,
Title XX, and other related programs.

JoRDAN M. SmitTH (See 1957).

1961

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM J. FIDLER
Jr., a daughter, Laura Elizabeth Van Liere,
on June 15, 1975. Dr. Fidler is assistant pro-
fessor of pathology at the University of
Michigan Medical Center.

Dr. CHARLES L. CAMPBELL is an exploration
geologist with South Louisiana Production
Co.

WALTER J. CRATER JR. is senior systems en-
gineer for Systems Consultants, Inc., based
in Washington, D. C. He lives in San Diego,
Calif. and is a test director of a U.S. Navy
surveillance system scheduled for use on
aircraft carriers.

Henry H. HARRELL is vice president of Uni-
versal Leaf Tobacco Co. He is married to
the former Jean Covington Camp and the

 

was Carrying on with his wife.)

 

Philip Booth, ’64, made his debut this winter
with the Metropolitan Opera — and received favor-
able notices from such as the New York Times.
Booth appeared with Roberta Peters in Verdi’s Un
Ballo in Maschera (A Masked Ball) as Warting,
one of the conspirators in that mid-19th century
“madhouse melodrama” bent on killing the king,
Gustav III of Sweden. (Warting and friend are
thwarted in their plan when Gustav’s best friend
knifes him during — what else? — a masked ball
before the enemies have the chance to carry out
their plot; the friend mistakenly thought the king

Booth was an English major at W&L, active in

 

the Glee Club (as its bass soloist) and the Trouba-
dour Theatre. After graduation he studied Eng-
lish at the University of Rochester, but soon de-
cided to move over to the Eastman School of Music.
From 1966 to 1970 he was bass soloist with the U.S.
Army Chorus, and has been singing profession-
ally ever since his discharge. He began capturing
prizes almast immediately (the Met auditions in
1970; a grant a year later from the National
Opera Institute; selection for the role of the King
in Handel’s Ariodante under Jules Rudel at the
opening of the Kennedy Center, etc.). He returned
to Lexington three years ago for a much-acclaim-
ed concert. As a member of the Met company, he
sings some 21 roles in three languages.

 

 

couple has one daughter. The family lives
in Sabot, Va.

J. WALTER SHUGART III has been appointed
professor of military science at the Univer-
sity of Virginia.

1962
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. HARRY GREENE BAL-
LANCE JR., twins, a son, Harry Greene III,
and a daughter, Marthe Gail, on July 20,
1975. The family lives in Atlanta, Ga.

1963

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN KENDALL MC-
CLUNG JR., a daughter, Elizabeth Widdi-
field, on Oct. 27, 1975. McClung is exe-
cutive director of the Tidewater March of
Dimes (which includes Tidewater Virginia,
the Eastern Shore and eastern North Caro-
lina). The family lives in Virginia Beach.

‘THOMAS G. ANDREW Jp. is vice president and
manager of the Indiana Division of Ameri-
can Fletcher National Bank and _ “Trust
Company in Indianapolis.

Dr. Davin W. BEVANS JR. practices thoracic
surgery in North Little Rock, Ark. He re-
ceived the Directors’ Commendation from
the Litthe Rock Veterans Hospital during a
thoracic surgery fellowship.

Dr. RicHARD T. Epwarps III is practicing
internal medicine and cardiology in Roa-
noke.

ROBERT G. HOLLAND, associate editor of the
Richmond Times-Dispatch, was named a
second place winner for an editorial series by
a metropolitan daily paper by the Virginia
Press Association.

KEN C. KOwALskKI is the principal of E. C.
Glass High School in Lynchburg, Va. He
and his wife, Gail, have two children.

THoMAs T. Moore Jr. has been promoted to
vice president of the North Carolina Na-
tional Bank in Charlotte. Moore joined
NCNB in 1967 as a programmer analyst.

Dr. WILLIAM H. SPENCER-STRONG has entered
private practice in obstetrics and gynecology
in Baltimore, Md.

STEPHEN H. STULL and family live in Guam
where he is an officer with the First Na-
tional City Bank. He and his wife have three
sons.

Ht. MICHAEL WALKER is currently vice presi-
dent, secretary and director of Guest Quar-
ters, Inc. The firm is a chain of apartment-

hotels with facilities in Washington, Alex-
andria, Atlanta, and Greensboro catering to
business people and families who need over-
night or weekly lodging accommodations. He
and his wife, Carole, have two sons and re-
side at Virginia Beach.

E. BRENT WELLs II was recently promoted
to Northeast region manager of administra-
tion for the Xerox Information Systems
Group.

1964

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM B. (BUCK)
OGILVIE JR., a daughter, Margaret Carolyn,
on July 15, 1975. The young lady joins
an older brother, Bland, and an older sis-
ter, Courtney. Ogilvie is an executive vice
president of the Baylor College of Medicine
in Houston.

Dr. JOHN W. BAKER and his wife, Betty, have
settled in Norfolk after finishing his Haist-
ed Surgical Residency in  cardiovascular-
thoracic and general surgery. He now prac-
tices with the Norfolk Surgical Group. He is
also affiliated with the new Eastern Vir-
ginia Medical School as an assistant pro-
fessor of surgery. The Bakers have twin
daughters and a son.

F. WILLIAM BurRKE, formerly with the law
firm of Larson & Tolley, has become assis-
tant vice president and trust officer of the
American Security and Trust Co. in Wash-
ington, D. C.

R. A. CoPLAN is producing and writing tele-
vision commercials for the retail furniture
industry. He and his wife have two children
and the family lives in Baltimore, Md.

JouNn D. Eure Jr., an attorney in Suffolk,
Va., is serving as governor of Zone I, Hol-
land District Ruritan Club. He is also en-
gaged in real estate development.

Rocer W. PAINE’s We Never Had Any
Trouble Before: First Aid for Parents of
Teenagers, published in November by Stein
and Day, has been chosen as an alternate
selection of the Book of the Month Club.
Praised by The Kirkus Reviews as “an at-
tractive, low-keyed, sensible approach to the
problems of teenagers,” the book discusses
such matters as dress, drugs, sex, and reli-
gion, illustrating with 10 actual case _ his-
tories. Paine is a graduate of the Yale Divin-
ity School and for the past few years has
worked, as director of youth counseling serv-
ices, with parents and teenagers in the East,
Midwest, and Rocky Mountain areas. He
now lives in Boulder, Colo.

1965

ANDERSON B. CAROTHERS is vice president,
Corporate Finance Department, for Under-
wood, Neuhaus & Co. of Houston, Texas—
members of the New York Stock Exchange.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD S. HARMAN,
a son, Matthew Harman, on Sept. 16, 1975.
Harman is with R. S. Harman and Co.
Securities, a member of the New York Stock
Exchange with offices in New York City.

W. Scotr ARMENTROUT, after graduation
from W&L’s Law School, served in the law
department of Chessie Railway System in
Baltimore. In 1973 he joined the Amtrak
Law Department and now serves as _assis-
tant to the president of Amtrak. He and
his wife, Kathe, have two children and live
in Baltimore.

After graduation from the W&L Law School
in 1970, E>wArD B. CRosLAnp JR. became an
attorney with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. He recently joined the Wash-
ington, D. C. law firm of Hill, Christopher,
and Phillips, P. C.

CLAIBOURNE H. DARDEN JR. is the president
of the Atlanta firm Darden Research Cor-
poration, a marketing research company. In
addition to political polling, the firm studies
advertising acceptance surveys, concept test-
ing, corporate image evaluation, product
name selection, package design, and pur-
chase and consumption.

1967

MARRIAGE: CHRISTOPHER F. ARMSTRONG to
Meredith Louise Eachus on Sept. 27, 1975 in
Germantown, Pa. They live on a farm in
Catawissa, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. JEFF BRIDGES, a
daughter, Sarah Grace, on Oct. 23, 1975.
Bridges is sales manager for Consolidated
Fibres in Washington, D. C. The family lives
in Reston, Va.

RICHARD STEPHEN Kurz is a member of the
faculty of Lawrence University, Appleton,
Wis., as an instructor of sociology. Kurz, who
holds the Ph.D. degree from the University
of North Carolina, has taught at Grinnell
College and at St. Olaf College.

Dr. WILLIAM H. SLEDGE serves as a flight sur-
geon & psychiatrist at the School of Aero-
space Medicine at Brooks Air Force Base.
He and his wife live in San Antonio, Texas.

35

 

Tinkham Veale III, ’69

Sledge, along with Warren E. Stewart, ’67,
is playing with the San Antonio Lacrosse
Club.

F. WILLIAM Burke (See 1964).

1968

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL PRESTON, a
son, Michael Bradford on Sept. 10, 1975.
Preston is with the Chase Manhattan Bank
in New York City. The family lives in Chat-
ham, N. J.

MICHAEL G. MorGAN has been elected a city
representative in Stamford, Conn. Morgan
received the M.B.A. degree from the Whar-
ton School, University of Pennsylvania and
is now an administrative officer in the cor-
porate banking department of the State Na-
tional Bank of Connecticut.

HAL F. HIGGINBOTHAM JR. has been appoint-
ed assistant director of sponsored programs
at Georgetown University. He holds the
Ph.D. degree from Brown University.

1969

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM DOUGLAS
HALL, a daughter, Jennifer Bower, on May
15, 1975. The family lives in Boca Raton,
Fla.

TINKHAM VEALE III has been promoted to
vice president of investments for Alco Stand-
ard Corp., Cleveland, Ohio.

ADDISON G. (JOE) WILSON has been appoint-
ed by the governor of South Carolina to a
five-year term on the State Development
Board. He will represent four counties on
the board, which has responsibility for at-
tracting industry to the state. Wilson is a
practicing attorney in West Columbia, S.C.

1970

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. DEAN KUMPURIS, a
daughter, Kate, on Nov. 26, 1975. Kumpuris
is a resident in internal medicine at Emory
in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES H. MALONEY
Jx., a son, John Campbell, on Nov. 10, 1975.

Maloney is a_ third-year law student at
W&L.

EpWARD B. CRrosLANnp JR. (See 1966).

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANKLIN R. RICH,
a son, Franklin Edward, on Sept. 30, 1975.
Rich has received the M.S. degree in crimi-

36

nal justice from George Washington Uni-
versity.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. R. BALFourR SARTOR,
a son, Ryan McDade, on Nov. 10, 1975. Sar-
tor is a resident in internal medicine at
Baylor College of Medicine in Houston,
‘Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Harry D. LETouwr-
NEAU JR., a daughter, Kathryn Lynne, on
Feb. 12, 1975. The family lives in Char-
lotte, N. C.

H. JOHN ACKERMAN has been named con-
roller of the new higher-amines plant of Air
Products and Chemicals, Inc. in St. Gabriel,
La.

Capt. THOMAS HENRY ALPHIN Jr. is assis-
tant staff Judge Advocate with the U. S.
Army at Fort Meade, Md. His wife, Jenni-
fer, teaches math at Severn School in Se-
verna Park.

DAvip P. CHRISTOPHER is in his second year
of a doctoral program in theatre and drama
at the University of Georgia.

STEPHEN CLEMENT is an intern in internal
medicine at Grady Hospital in Atlanta, Ga.

LEE GRAHAM is currently with the _ stock
brokerage firm of Cabell & Co. He and his
wife, Gayle, live in Richmond.

CHARLES M. HALL received the J.D. degree
from Emory University School of Law in
June, 1975, and is now an associate in the
law firm of Lanier, Elliott & Price in At-
lanta, Ga.

Henry A. HARKEY, admitted to the North
Carolina Bar in September 1975, is currently
practicing law with the District Attorney's
office in Charlotte.

After graduation E. W. (WREN) HUDGINS
worked as a truck driver, a kindergarten
teacher, a bicycle mechanic, and obtained a
master’s degree in psychology from the Un1-
versity of Northern Colorado. In June 1975,
he married Leigh Edens and is now enrolled
at the University of Washington where he
is pursuing a doctorate in educational

psychology.

Dr. ANDREW G. KUMPURIS is a first year re-
sident in internal medicine at Baylor Col-
lege of Medicine in Houston.

JOHN M. McCAarpbeLt Jr. is in his fourth year
of graduate work at Harvard and is writing
his dissertation on the ideology of ante-
bellum southern nationalism. He is also a

teaching fellow in the history department tu-
torial program. One of his articles, “John
A. Quitman and the Compromise of 1850,”
was recently published in the Journal of
Mississippi History.

RICHARD REGAN is working for an M.B.A.
degree in finance at American University in
Washington, D.C. He is also a_ part-time
graduate research assistant in investments.

Louis W. RIeEpDER III lives in Grand Island,
Neb. where he is in sales and doing play
by play sport reporting for Radio KRGI.
His wife is teaching in the Grand Island
school system.

Ho.Luiis ‘TAGGART has been practicing law in
New Orleans and is also teaching trans-
cendental meditation in the business com-

munity.
1972

MARRIAGE: Epwarp G. (NED) Moore and
Tina Egge on April 5, 1975. Moore is edi-
torial assistant in the Office of Information
Services at Mary Washington College. He is
currently on the Council for the Advance-
ment and Support of Education, and a
member of  Fredericksburg’s Civil War
Round Table and the Ellen Glasgow Society.

MARRIAGE: Lt. Marc J. SMALL and
Tempy Glenn Larew on Nov. 1, 1975 in
Lee Chapel. The couple lives in Aberdeen,
Md., where Small is stationed at the Aber-
deen Proving Grounds.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PETER H. SHEPPARD,
a daughter, Kathryn E., on Aug. 2, 1975.
Sheppard is vice president of R. H. Shep-
pard Co., Inc., and general manager of the
company’s foundry division in Hanover, Pa.

B. RANDALL CoATEs has received the J.D.
degree from the University of Baltimore and
has entered private practice in Berlin, Md.
He is a partner in the law firm of Coates,
Coates & Coates with his father, Raymond
D. Coates, ’50A, ’53L, and his brother, Ray-
mond D. Coates Jr., "71A.

JosepH A. GARTEN is employed on a part-
time basis as a psychologist at Mobile Psy-
chiatric Clinic in Richmond, Va. He is also
enrolled at Virginia Commonwealth Univer-
sity in the doctoral program in clinical
psychology.

CHARLES HOFHEIMER was re-elected presi-
dent of Old Dominion Intercollegiate Foun-
dations and was also selected as chairman of
the board of The Friends School, Inc. of
Virginia Beach. He was appointed to serve

Bob Mescal, °70, (center)
was married in Sao Paulo,
Brazil, on Oct. 25,

the help of Chris Her-
chold, '70, (left), his best man,
and Brandon Herbert, ’73,
chief usher. Mescal is with

on the Virginia Beach Tomorrow Study
Group by the city council in conjunction
with the Brookings Institute of Washing-
ton, D. C. Hofheimer was appointed to
serve on the advisory council of Tidewater
Consortium of Continuing Education for the
Institute of Higher Education.

LANDON B. LANE Jr. has been transferred to
the headquarters of Lane Co. in Altavista,
Va., as financial controller.

Capt. PAUL A. ROBBLEE JR. is an instructor
in the department of law at West Point. He
and his wife have a two year old son, Clay
Sullivan.

JoHN W. Rosinson IV graduated from law
school at the University of Georgia and is
now an attorney with the U. S. government
in New Orleans.

CHARLES L. ROBSON is executive director of
the Metropolitan Section of the Professional
Golfers Association with headquarters in
New Rochelle, N. Y.

ROBERT M. TURNBULL, after completing his
M.B.A. at the University of Virginia, is now
with First and Merchants National Bank as
a credit analyst. He was recently elected
treasurer of the Richmond alumni chapter.

LLoyp WOLF is in his last year of a four-
year J.D.—M.B.A. program at Southern
Methodist University in Dallas, Texas.

1973

MARRIAGE: JAMEs A. FERNALD III to Eliza-
beth Montague Wise on June 21, 1975. At-
tending the wedding were fellow alumni
Douglas Bruell, Geoffrey Shuff, Bob and
Kathy Weiss, and Alden E. C. Bigelow, ’68.
Fernald is employed as regional sales man-
ager for WVIR-TYV in Charlottesville, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. LEE Harriss, a
son, Mathew Cooper, on March 14, 1975.
The family lives in Durham, N. C.

Joun D. Czop is enrolled in a program of
graduate work in European history at Co-
lumbia University.

JOHN H. Dumas II is in his senior year at
the University of Alabama Medical School.
His wife, Anne, is a special education teach-

cr at a local elementary school in Birming-
ham

ROBERT DWELLEY is currently serving as as-
sistant director of admissions and as a dorm
Master at the Berkshire School in Sheffield,
Mass.

with

Goodyear.

‘THOMAS G. FERGUSON JR. is currently on ac-
tive duty with the Judge Advocate Generals
Corps. at Fort Sill, Okla. He is chief of the
military affairs section with primary re-
sponsibility of advising the post on labor,
procurement, and environmental law issues.

JOHN W. Fotsom is assistant vice president
of Service Mortgage Corporation of Colum-
bia, S. C.

T. HALLER JAckson III, a third-year law
student at Louisiana State University, is
chairman of the Ethics Committee, a mem-
ber of the Moot Court Board, and a Law
Review candidate. He expects to work in
the office of the judge of the U. S. District
Court in Shreveport after graduation.

LARRY D. JONEs, formerly with Wachovia
Bank and Trust Co. as an equal employment
officer, is now employed by the city of Win-
ston-Salem as Public Safety Legal Advisor
for the police and fire department.

WILLIAM R. MCCALL is engaged in the
general practice of law in Bristol, Va.

WILLIAM H. MCILHANY expects his third
book, The American Civil Liberties Union
on Trial, to be published in May 1976. He
is also working to help establish the new
John Birch University in California.

DREW STANIAR received the M.B.A. degree
with high honors in May 1975, from Boston
Institute where he was president of the stu-
dent body. Staniar is now associated with an
advertising agency in New York.

KENNETH WERNICK is currently working in
the litigation division, office of Judge Advo-
cate General in the Pentagon in Washing-
ton, D. C.

1974

MARRIAGE: JOHN H. Curtis Jr. and Anne
Watlington on May 31, 1975. Among the
wedding party were several Washington and
Lee alumni: Marvin Daniel, ’74, Jim East-
ham, ’74, Mac DePan, °74, Calder Ezzell, ’74,
and Bert Meem, ‘72. The couple enjoyed
a honeymoon trip to Hawaii. Curtis is cur-
rently attending law school at Memphis
State University.

MARRIAGE: Ropert E. JOHNSON JR. and
Georgia Ann Fry in August 1975. He expects
to receive an M.B.A. degree from Vander-
bilt University’s Graduate School of Man-
agement in May 1976.

MARRIAGE: MARTIN E. STIEN JR. and
Brooke Powell were married Aug. 31, 1975.

 

Ushers included classmates James D. Farrar

Jr., William Wallace, Russ Fletcher, and
Langston Donkle Jr. Stein expects to receive
his M.B.A. from Amos Tuck School of
Dartmouth College in June 1976.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. AMos ALAN WORK-
MAN, a son, Amos Alan Jr. on Aug. II, 1975.
Workman, a law student at the University
of South Carolina Law School, is clerking for
an attorney in Columbia and doing research
for a professor.

WILLIAM R. LAROSA is in medical school at
Tulane University. He is joined by W&L
classmates Bill Beecham, Hud Allender and
Rick Sands.

Jack E. ALTMAN III is in his second year at
the Episcopal Theological Seminary in Nas-
hotah, Wis.

VirGIL OATES BARNARD III, after receiving
an M.B.A. from the University of Kentucky,
is now working for a civil engineering firm
in Frankfort, Ky.

ROBERT BRAND, formerly with the sports in-
formation bureau of Roanoke College, is
now in Seattle, Wash., where he is working
in the public affairs department of General
Telephone Company of the Northwest.

CHRISTIAN PETER CIMMINO has received his
master’s degree at the American Graduate
School of International Management. He is
currently a trainee with Owens-Illinois
Corp. in Orlando, Fla.

FRANKIE C. COYNER has opened a law office
in Stuart’s Draft, Va. Coyner is a former
U.S. Navy pilot.

MARVIN P. DANIEL has been elected assistant
marketing officer of Southern Bankshares,
Inc., in Richmond. Daniel joined the firm
in June, 1974, as a management trainee.

JAMEs R. Dickey is currently acting team
commander of a  Nike-Hercules Battery,
working in support of NATO Forces. He is
stationed in Germany.

R. LEIGH FRACKELTON is a second-year law
student at T. C. Williams School of Law at
the University of Richmond.

NORBERT S, GARBISCH III is vice president of
Vic Nor Farms, Inc. He is in charge of
operations of Carbo-Jet of Pittsburgh, a sub-
sidiary of Vic Nor Farms.

CHARLES E. GUSLER is a sales representative
for Mallinchrodt Inc., a pharmaceutical
manufacturer, in central and southwest Vir-

37

In the spirit of the Lynch-
burg chapter annual Christmas
dance, an event that heralds

 

ginia. He is married to the former Judith
Anne Southers. The couple lives in Vinton.

DUNCAN §S. KLINEDINST is attending law

school at the University of Virginia.

JOHN S. LALLEY JR., an international trainee
with the Maryland National Bank, has
been assigned to the Far East operations as
a lending officer. He travels in Japan, Tai-
wan, the Philippines, Thailand, Hong Kong,
Malaysia, Singapore, Australia, and New
England.

ALAN W. LEME, after one year of training
in Columbus, Ohio, with Electronic Data
Systems of Dallas, has been transferred to
EDS Regional Data Center in Camp Hill,
Pa.

BERNARD J. LEWIs, after receiving a master’s
degree in counseling in May 1975, is now
enrolled in the counseling psychology doc-
toral program at the University of Virginia.

NEIL LUTINs is a second-year dental student
at the Medical College of Virginia in Rich-
mond.

Jos—EPpH P. MCMENAMIN is in his second year
of medical school at the University of Penn-
sylvania. In January 1976, he will begin his
clinical rotation in medicine and surgery.

JAMeEs G. Rocers has joined the staff of the
Philadelphia National Bank in the manage-
ment training program. He will be prima-
rily concerned with commercial lending.
Rogers lives in Radnor, Pa.

WILLIAM H. SANDERS JR. is a second-year
law student at the University of Kansas.

Davin M. SHAPIRO, formerly in Washington,
D. C., is now practicing law with the firm
of Tronfeld, Caudele and Shapiro in Rich-
mond, Va.

S. JEFFRESS SULLIVAN, after a year’s employ-
ment in the U. S. House of Representatives
and later as assistant administrator of the
Fairmont, W. Va., Emergency Hospital, is
now attending the University of Tulsa Law
School.

G. WATSON TEBO JR. has received a gradu-
ate teaching assistantship from the chemis-
try department at the University of South-
western Louisiana in Lafayette. He is work-
ing on his M.S. degree in micro-biology and
is completing a project in electron micros-
copy on Saudida Albicans, a _ pathogenic
yeast.

‘THOMAS HENRY ALPHIN JR. (See 1971.)

38

the holiday social swirl, are
Roger Fauber, °63, Mrs.
Mosby Perrow, Mrs. Fauber,
and Mosby Perrow, ’70.
(photo courtesy of the
Lynchburg News.)

1975
MARRIAGE: Pres SIMPSON and Virginia
Blackburn Fullerton on May $1, 1975 in
Lee Chapel. Among the ushers were John
C. Fullerton III, 73, Steve Purtell, ’75, and
Larry Cahoon, °75. Simpson is in his first
year of medical school at Vanderbilt and
his wife, a graduate of the University of
Virginia School of Nursing, is a nurse at
the Vanderbilt Hospital.

JAMEs W. AkRIDGE is in graduate school in
philosophy at the University of Tennessee.

STEVE VAN AMBURGH is employed as a sales
representative for Romeo, Inc., a construc-
tion equipment distributor for highway and
building firms in Texas. He lives in Dallas.

RoBERT K. BAILEY III is an engineering as-
sistant with the city of Virginia Beach.

HARRY F. BosEN JR. practices general law
in Salem, Va.

Davip A. CANTO expects to receive his M.B.A.
from graduate business school at Arizona
State University in August 1976.

‘TAYLOR COLE has leased the Thunder Ridge
Preserve from ‘Thunder Ridge, Inc. of
Rockbridge County. The 300-acre preserve,
located four miles south of Natural Bridge
Station, will be opened for bird hunters in
March 1976. Quail, pheasant and chuka par-
tridge are raised at the preserve.

T. BARRY DaAvis is presently the advertising
director for the Washington Dossier Maga-
zine. He also operates a mail order business
called American Audio. Two nights each
week, Davis acts as master of ceremonies at
Washington’s discotheque, “Fran O’Brien’s
Silver Bird.”

MARK DIVERIO is employed by First National
Bank of New Jersey in their executive man-
agement program.

S. L. DUMVILLE is currently attending Mar-
shall-Wythe School of Law at the College of
William and Mary.

WILLIAM E. FORLAND Jr. is a front desk clerk
at the Seattle, Wash., Hyatt House Hotel.

Gravy C. FRANK Jr. is practicing law with
the Alexandria, Va. law firm of Booth,
Prichard and Dudley.

HENRY R. GARDEN III is serving as law clerk
for the Honorable Walter E. Hoffman, ’31,
Judge Eastern Division of Virginia, U. S.
District Court. He is also on special assign-

ment for the Federal Judicial Center in
Washington, D. C.

Don HATHWAY is working for a C.P.A. firm
in Washington, D. C.

Kim D. KUEHNER is enrolled at Washington
University in St. Louis in the M.B.A. pro-
gram.

JoHN R. Piccio II is doing undergraduate
work at the University of Delaware and ex-
pects his degree in marketing in 1976.

MARK S. REIFSLAGER is attending a doctoral
program in Clinical psychology at ‘Texas
‘Tech University in Lubbock, Texas.

Eric C. ROWE is currently working in Lynch-
burg, Va., as a carpenter for a small home
improvement company.

WILLIAM L. WARREN JR. is currently enroll-
ed at the New Orleans Baptist Theological
Seminary working towards a master’s of di-
vinity degree.

 

In Memoriam

1905

Dr. EDMUND SIMPSON BoIcE, who provided
surgical care to citizens of Rocky Mount,
N. C., for over a half century, died Nov. 2,
1975. Boice did his internship at Union Me-
morial Hospital in Baltimore, Md., from
1909-1910 and then served on the surgical
staff of Johnston-Willis Hospital in Rich-
mond, Va., from 1910-1914. He went to
Rocky Mount as the first surgeon on the
staff of the newly-opened Park View Hospi-
tal, and served as chief of its surgical staff
until his retirement in 1967. In 1915, he
formed a surgical partnership with Dr. B. C.
Willis, which later developed into a group
of specialists known as the _ Boice-Willis
Clinic. His work in the fight against cancer
brought recognition from the local cancer
unit in 1959 and from the North Carolina
division of the cancer society in 1969. He
served as president of the Seaboard Medi-
cal Society and was a diplomat of the Ameri-
can Board of Surgery. He was a member
of the Founders’ Group, a fellow of the
American College of Surgeons, and a mem-
ber of the Academy-International of Medi-
cine. He served as director of the Edge-
combe-Nash Cancer Center from 1948 until

1970.
1910

OwEN L. Lucas, a long-time employee with
the Western Union Telegraph Co., died in

 

C. NILEs GRosvENOR JR.
in Memphis, Tenn. Grosvenor was developer
of the Sterick Building, First American Bank

a ell r resented the Besse-
Building and the Memp ae is Ricwecd and Trust . ep

rict and was instrumental in

retired rea

ae
32 years. He also

Bee

» Tenn, after World War I. He}

John Marsha
served on the -

the Tennessee

Bristol Bar “Association, TIC
cature Society and the American Coun
Association. — : ;

the fat

A Matter of | Survival A Blueprint for
dom, and Our Heritage and the Cl

of Harrisonburg, died NOV.
The retired | ‘telephone company
was a city councilman for 24 austria

:

 

 

In Memoriam

 

business executive, he was appointed to
the city’s first planning commission in the
1930’s and in 1938 ran for council for the
first time. He resigned his council post for
duty in World War II. As a national guards-
man and a member of the Valley’s famed
Stonewall Brigade, he was inducted into the
Army as a captain and commanded Harri-
sonburg’s Company C of the 29th Division’s
116th Infantry. Switzer was awarded the
American Defense Service Medal, the Ameri-
can Service Medal, the European-African-
Middle Eastern Service Medal, the Vic-
tory Medal and the Bronze Star. During
Switzer’s tenure as mayor, Harrisonburg
enjoyed its greatest era of growth. New in-
dustry came to the city, Interstate 81,
around the city, was completed and Madison
College began a massive expansion pro-
gram. He resigned in 1968 as mayor and
remained on the city council until 1972.
In addition to his many civic activities,
Switzer had been a member of the Blue
Lodge of the Masonic Order, commander of
the Harrisonburg American Legion Post
and president of the Virginia Independent
Telephone Association.

1926

RICHARD MURRELL YANKEE, president emeri-
tus of Darlington School in Rome, Ga., died
Nov. 8, 1975. He served as president of
Darlington School from 1963 until 1971. He
came to Darlington in 1926 as a teacher and
coach and held the positions of associate
headmaster and executive vice president.
Yankee was past president of the Mid South
Association of Independent Schools, past
president of the Georgia Association of In-
dependent Schools, and a member of the
National Association of Independent
Schools.

1929

ROBERT CLARK COPENHAVER JR., a retired exe-
cutive in the tobacco business, died in
Wilson, N. C., July 29, 1975. He was last
associated with the Carolina Leaf Tobacco
Co., Inc., of Greenville, N. C. Copenhaver
also worked in banks, in the live stock auc-
tion market, and in the weekly newspaper
business.

1932

LAWRENCE HAMPTON NORMAN, former sales
manager for Standard Oil of Indiana, died
Oct. 11, 1975 in El Dorado, Ark.

D. JACKSON SAVAGE, an attorney in Charles-
ton, W. Va., died Aug. 11, 1975.

40

1933

On Nov. 20, 1973, the board of trustees of
the University of Montevallo (Ala.) voted
to name the recently built men’s dormitory
for the late FRANz EDWARD LUND, president
of the university from 1952 to 1957. Lund
left the University of Montevallo to be-
come president of Kenyon College in Gam-
bier, Ohio from which he retired in 1968.
During Lund’s administration, in 1956, the
University of Montevallo became co-educa-
tional. Lund died May 29, 1973.

1934

JOHN WALTER DEXTER, executive vice presi-
dent of the Oklahoma State Home Builders
Association, died Oct. 16, 1975 in Okla-
homa City. Dexter, a native of Ardmore,
Okla., went to Oklahoma City in 1941 and
joined the newspaper business for many
years. He was assistant editor for the
Sunday Oklahoman and was a feature wri-
ter during the 1950’s. He was a Ist lieuten-
ant in the Air Force and saw action in
both World War II and the Korean War.
During his career in the home building in-
dustry, Dexter continued writing and con-
tributed to the Sunday business and home
building sections.
1937

LAMAR C. RAvu, who was a supervisor for
the Library of Congress from 1945 to 1972,
died Oct. 17, 1975, as a result of a fall from
a cliff near the Rumsey Monument which
is located near Shepherdstown, W. Va. Rau
was residing in Moler’s Crossroads, W. Va.

1938

Compr. WILLARD DwicuHT KiNG, U. S. Navy
(ret.) of Midland, Texas, died Dec. II,
1975. He was a career officer in the Navy
and a veteran of World War II, serving in
both the Atlantic and Pacific. He served in
the Korean War. He received many honors
while in the service, including the Naval
Air Medal and the Presidential Citation.
After his retirement, he was associated with
the C.I.A. and Sperry-Rand Corp.

DaAvip LEE MAULsBy, a reporter for the
Baltimore Sun for 29 years, died Nov. 22,
1975. During World War II he served with
the Ist Marine Division and saw action in
the Pacific. His newspaper career began im-
mediately after the war. To his fellow re-
porters and his readers he became known
for his extraordinary talents with “the light
feature’—a story about every day happen-
ings of limited consequences except to
those directly involved.

194]

JoHN WALTER CRAWForRD III, an insurance
executive in Raleigh, N. C., died July 14,
1975. A native of Long Island, N. Y., Craw-
ford saw service in World War II with the
U. S. Navy. At one time he was with the
Texas Co. and later with the Sperry Co. In
1948 he joined the Hartford Fire Insurance
Co., and remained in the insurance field
until his death.

1944

NEIL EwINnG TASHER, formerly the inheri-
tance tax commissioner and assistant At-
torney General for the State of Colorado, died
April 18, 1975. ‘Tasher was a member of the
Denver and Colorado Bar Associations and
also of the Denver Board of Realtors.

1945

WILLIAM ROBERT GAINES, a son of the late
Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee University for 29 years,
died at his home in Harvard, Mass. on Oct.
15, 1975. Gaines grew up in Lexington and
earned a master’s degree from the Univer-
sity of Virginia. After military service in
World War II, he returned to Lexington
and taught in the Rockbridge County school
system at Natural Bridge. He held teaching
positions at Eastern Kentucky State Col-
lege and in the University of Virginia School
of Education. Gaines was Superintendent
of Schools for the City of Charleston, S. C.
and subsequently held the same _ position
in Groton, Mass. After moving to Massa-
chusetts, he was director of the Liberty
Council of Schools and headed federal pro-
jects involving 14 public school systems. A
memorial service was conducted in Lee
Chapel. Interment was in the Stonewall
Jackson Cemetery in Lexington.

1957

WILLIAM K. SCHMID JR., an attorney in
Staunton, Va., and assistant Commonwealth
Attorney for Augusta County, died Nov. 30,
1975.

1964

RoGER EARL (Bup) ALLEN JR. died Nov. 8
in Summit, N. J. Allen received his masters
degree in business administration from New
York University and was working towards
his doctorate degree prior to his death. He
was the marketing supervisor for American
Telephone and Telegraph Co. The inter-
ment was at Fort Hill Memorial Park in
Lynchburg, Va.

Spring sports Schedule

 

Feb.

 

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

Apr.
Apr.

Apr.

Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
May
May
May

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

28
1]
14
20
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
30
31
I]
13
14
15

20
21

23,

26
27
28
]
2
6

LACROSSE
North Carolina State Away
Duke Away
Morgan State HOME
Mt. Washington Away
North Carolina HOME
U. S. Naval Academy Away
VPI HOME
Australian All-Stars HOME
Hofstra Away
C. W. Post Away
‘Towson State HOME
Maryland Away
Roanoke HOME
Cortland State HOME
Virginia Away
TENNIS
West Virginia Hot Springs, Va.
Rochester HOME
Hampton Institute Hampton, Va.
Georgetown HOME
Amherst HOME
Edinboro State HOME
Madison HOME
Dartmouth HOME

Manassas, Va.
Philadelphia, Pa.
Haverford Philadelphia, Pa.
Virginia Charlottesville, Va.
William & Mary Williamsburg, Va.
Davidson HOME
New Orleans New Orleans, La.
Tulane New Orleans, La.
Southeastern Louisiana
Hammond, La.

HOME

George Mason
St. Joseph’s

Old Dominion
Hampden-Sydney

Hampden-Sydney, Va.
24, 25 VCAA Championships

HOME
VMI HOME
VPI Blacksburg, Va.
Roanoke Roanoke, Va.
Villanova Philadelphia, Pa.
‘Towson State Towson, Md.
Richmond HOME

June 4,5,6 Eastern Championships

Rochester, N. Y.

June 14-18 NCAA Championships

Jackson, Miss.

 

 

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

M ay

18
20
23
30
zi
24

27
30

13
18
20
22
25
26
29
31

12
13
15

. 20
. 22
. 24

26

. 27

29

 

. 23
29
30

TRACK
Madison Away
Wake Forest HOME
Frostburg State HOME
Davidson HOME
Lynchburg HOME

VCAA Championships |
Petersburg, Va.

Roanoke HOME
Bridgewater Away
Emory & Henry Away
BASEBALL
West Virginia ‘Tech HOME
Providence HOME
Apprentice Away
Old Dominion Away
VMI Away
Oneonta State HOME
Lynchburg HOME
Hampden-Sydney HOME
Navy Away
Howard Away
Franklin & Marshall Away
VMI HOME
Madison Away
Bridgewater HOME
Lynchburg Away
Eastern Mennonite HOME
Madison HOME

VCAA Championships
Lynchburg, Va.

Liberty Baptist HOME
Liberty Baptist Away
GOLF
Clinch Valley HOME
Lynchburg HOME
Roanoke, Hampden-Sydney HOME
Roanoke Away
VCAA Tournament Lynchburg
Virginia Wesleyan Away
Clinch Valley Away
Emory and Henry Away
Bridgewater Away
Randolph-Macon Away

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNI VERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450 CY 4 5

 

Wé&L IS THE PLACE TO MIX IN ’76!
RESERVE THE DATES
MAY 7 and 8, 1976

Spring
Class Reunions

Paty |

hy )

\per- \ }
N
q

i :

1) SA 5
v i \ f |
EN
NE | Ae Lees
fi BS y. OS EE
Bh
g | /

   
   
 

    

     
 

 

Honoring the Academic and Law Classes
of
1926 =1936 195] 1961 1966

and the
Old Guard
AN ADDED ATTRACTION:

Washington and Lee’s Famous Mock Convention
Will Be in Session

A BICENTENNIAL EVENT.

