 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university SEPTEMBER 1977

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 52, Number 6, September 1977

William C. Washburn, 40 ...................2.. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ................25. Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing, 77 .............. Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter 1.0.0... 0... cee eee eee, Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann .... 6. ee eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Keeping Pace in Journalism ................. ]
Journalism Major .......... 2... cece e eee eee 3
Investigative Reporting ..................05. 7
W&L Gazette ....... cece 9
Internships at W&L ... 1... eee eee ee 13
Annual Fund Report ...................005. 16
Talks by Lewis and Coulling ................. 18
Chapter News ........ 00... c cece eee eee es 23
Class Notes .......... 0. cece eee e eee eee 24
In Memoriam ........... 0... e ec eee eee ee eee 30
Marion Junkin, 1905-1977 ................5. 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpwiIn J. Fortz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President
RoBert M. WuiteE II, 38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President
Jerry G. Soutu,’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer
WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

FRED Fox BENTON Jr., 60, Houston, Tex.
WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitip R. CAMPBELL, 757, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DENNY, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, ’58, Richmond, Va.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HO. its, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N.Y.

WéSL: the alumni magazine of washington and lee
university

ON THE COVER: This is the MVP, VDT" that punches
the tape that drives the Linocomp’ that turns out the type
that appears in Wé&?L*—the type, for instance, on the
inside front cover.

"Video display terminal, the electronic editing system in the De-

partment of Journalism and Communications used for editing
and correcting rough copy.

*The new photo-compositor in the Journalism Laboratory Press
that can produce eight lines of printer’s type per minute.

*The gibberish before and after “W&L” are codes that tell the
photo-compositor to change to italic type for “W&L” and then
back to regular type. The funny symbol is called a bell code.

 

By R. H. MacDonald

Professor of Journalism

Journalism education keeps pace
with vast changes in technology

MacDonald has been head of the Department of Journalism and
Communications since 1974. A native of Vermont and a graduate
of Boston University, he began his broadcast news career in New
England. He moved to Roanoke in 1956, and at the time he jouned
the WSL faculty in 1969 he was news director of WDB]-TV there.

The remaining years in the twentieth century continue to
promise spectacular change in journalism and
communications. Already we are living in a world where
computers and television screens have replaced typewriters
in most newsrooms. We can look forward with some certainty
to a day not too far off when “newspapers” in some form will
be delivered electronically. Radio stations in many instances
are becoming robots through automation, and in television,
electronic newsgathering by means of videotape is rapidly
replacing motion-picture film for news.

It means, of course, that Washington and Lee’s
journalism program has to keep pace—keep pace with this
vast change, but at the same time never lose sight of our real
purpose: providing our students with the knowledge, skills,
and sensibilities to function as truly professional journalists.
Our goal remains to leave the journalism student with a
broad, liberal-arts education, combined with the ability to
apply that knowledge in the practical world of mass
communication.

In the journalism department and its programs, the
student brings to bear on the everyday occurences of his
world the knowledge and skills he has acquired in other
studies—the essential background of history, mathematics,
science, language, and other disciplines.

As a result, we place very few constraints on the
journalism major as to other fields of study and interest.
Another element of our approach is our attempt to provide
studies in our fields for other students, studies which are
general in nature, designed for those students with an
interest in and a realization of the importance of the mass
media in their lives.

In recent years, the pace of change in journalism has
been quicker than in perhaps any other academic field.
Within the past several months the journalism department at
Washington and Lee has seen the installation of electronic
editing and typesetting equipment comparable to that used
now by most daily newspapers. The obsolete hot-lead print
production system that served the W&L community for so
long has been phased out. This very article you are reading
was produced electronically, edited on a video terminal, and
produced photographically.

It is not only to provide a modern printing facility or to
become more efficient that these changes have been made. A
constantly advancing industry has made it imperative that
journalism students at Washington and Lee be taught the
techniques of the newest print technology. It was for this

 

Ronald H. MacDonald

reason more than for any other that the investment was
made in the new equipment. Once again the University’s
print shop can live up to its formal name: The Journalism
Laboratory Press.

Exposure to professionals is, we believe, an essential part
of the training of journalism students. (That is one reason
why every member of the journalism faculty has extensive
professional experience.) In this connection, the department
is especially proud of a series of seminars, instituted three
years ago, which bring professional journalists and media
managers to campus for two- or three-day workshops three
times a year. In such a setting, these professionals are able to

]

 

Journalism Education at W&SL

meet with our students and take part in discussions of such
topics as education for journalism, newsroom management,
high-school journalism, and a variety of other subjects. We
look upon these workshops as a form of continuing
education which we can provide for the professional
journalists in our region.

Seminars in the ethics of journalism established under
the University’s Society and the Professions program also
provide an opportunity for exposure of our students to
professionals. During an ethics institute each year, a dozen
or more practicing journalists are brought to campus to take
part in two days of seminars with a nationally known
professional. These institutes have been led by such men as
Ben Bagdikian, Norman Isaacs, William Small, and others.

Another area where professional exposure is available to
journalism students is in our internship program. For a
number of years it has been possible to send students off
campus for the six-week spring term to take part in actual
work experiences in a variety of media-related jobs. This has
been an almost universally successful program and in some
cases has resulted in full-time employment for the students.

The change in the University calendar, which made
internships possible, came at just the right time for us. It
coincided with a nationwide surge in journalism enrollments
that pushed our senior class from a total of five in 1969 to 39
in 1974, the peak year.

The curriculum and calendar change gave us the
opportunity to “re-tool,” so to speak. Our program had been
geared to very small enrollments, and we were equipped for
small classes. We have reconstructed the major courses and
requirements, added equipment and enlarged the faculty so
that we have been able to maintain a student-faculty ratio of
about 8-to-1, and average classes at about 11.

In recent years W&L has placed major emphasis on the
creation of a modern radio and television laboratory. That,
now, is virtually complete with the installation of a new
stereo FM transmitter and fully broadcast-quality additional
equipment for WLUR. The radio station is looked upon as
something far more than a laboratory for interested
students. Its programming for most of its 19-hour broadcast
day is aimed at the general Lexington-Rockbridge
community. As a non-commercial station, WLUR is able to
provide air time for a wide variety of high-quality
programming not otherwise available. The all-volunteer staff
of about 50 students comes from all departments of the
University.

The University television facility is still relatively new and
developing. It is used principally as a laboratory for students
in television courses, but provides daily local news to the
community through the Lexington cable television system.

The development at W&L of radio and television courses
and facilities has meant realistic laboratory experience for

2

 

SS SSS wf

John K. Jennings, ’56, associate professor of journalism, teaches courses in
communications law, public opinion, media-government relationships, and the
motion picture as an information medium.

the substantial number of students whose goal is to work in
electronic news. The focus of our classroom and laboratory
work in radio and TV is in the area of gathering, processing,
and presenting news. We offer no studies in advertising or
public relations, believing those fields to be related to, but
apart from, our fundamental educational objective: teaching
journalists.

With all the development in electronics, our first concern
remains with print journalism. Most new courses established
in the last three years have been in reporting, writing, and
editing for the print media.

By Hampden H. Smith III

Assistant Professor of Journalism

— Journalism major fuses skills
with broad liberal education

Ham Smith worked on newspapers in Staunton and Petersburg
before moving to the city desk of the Richmond News Leader in
1969. He joined the WSL faculty in 1974.

The basic concept of journalism education at Washington
and Lee today is strikingly similar to the principle of the first
journalism program in the history of education, established
while Robert E. Lee was president of Washington College.

That original idea was that printers—the only people who
had the skills that enabled them to be editors—would be
schooled in the liberal arts and sciences so they could spread
knowledge and information throughout a rebuilding South.
The principle was: Practical use of a liberal education.

That first program, however, never caught on. It was
many decades before journalism education really developed
at Washington and Lee, and the major emphasis has
changed several times in the department’s history. Today,
the approach is perhaps “purer”—or at least more unified—
than it has been for many years. 7

The orientation is completely toward journalism—not
advertising, not public relations, not mass entertainment. It
is true that a number of alumni continue to enter these
journalism-related fields—and many are quite successful at
them—but the department no longer seeks to provide any
education in those related areas.

The department faculty members are pleased with this
change. It has produced a program of much sharper focus, a
program of a quality and depth not possible with broader
offerings.

Comparing the courses this year with those offered 10
years ago provides an illustration. Of the 20 journalism
courses listed in the Catalogue for the 1967-68 academic
year, two were in advertising, one was in psychological
warfare and propaganda, and the primary focus of another
was public relations; the advertising sequence was required
of students taking the graphic arts course. Four newspaper
writing or editing courses were offered.

Twenty-seven courses are listed for the 1977-78 year.
None is in propaganda, advertising, or public relations. Eight
courses are now offered in news writing or editing. Added
have been a broadcast newswriting course, an advanced
course in magazine and newspaper feature writing, a course
in advanced investigative reporting, and the spring
internship. The orientation of several other courses has
shifted strongly to journalism.

Almost half the courses required for the journalism
major at W&L are these “skills” courses. The introductory
survey and four courses in communications law, mass media
and government, ethics, public opinion, and the like
complete the major. Each student must also take four
advanced courses in some other discipline; the expectation is
that he will thus have a solid background in some field he
will find useful as a journalist.

SSS
Ss
—
SASS
—

SS
SSS
SSE

 

Hampden H. Smith II

sens Githons GEM CODs Oe SIS
pees Bere eee,

 

The Mergenthaler MVP, a video display terminal, used to edit and correct copy.
On the display in this picture ts the same copy that appears on the front cover
and in type on the inside front cover.

3

 

Journalism Education at WSL

Meeting these requirements takes about a third of the
student’s college program, and University regulations
further assure that the student will have at least a smattering
of courses in four broad areas.

The result is that the W&L journalism major has a dual
focus: an extremely rigorous program of training in
journalistic skills and as broad a background as a liberal
approach to education can offer in how the world operates.

Throughout the journalism program, the emphasis is on
the roles the news media do play, could play, and should
play in the community and in the world. This means |
instilling an appreciation for—almost a healthy fear of—the
tremendous power of the press to inform and misinform.
This means attention in all courses to questions of journalism
ethics and to the broad principles behind the Constitutional
guarantee of freedom of the press and behind the legal
requirements of accuracy and fair play.

Another important aspect of the department’s program—
and a major concern of the department—is the technological
revolution taking place in print journalism. Until very
recently, the mechanics of producing a printed page were
essentially those developed by Gutenberg: individual pieces
of type were brought physically together letter by letter, ink
was rolled over the assembled pieces, and paper was then
pressed on the type. Electricity, hot-metal linecasting
machines, and stereotype plates for large rotary presses
modernized the process, of course, but the basic approach
was unchanged.

Then, in the 1960’s, computer technology struck. Today,
information is relayed by satellite; laser beams transmit
photographs; type is set by photocomposition machines at
incredible speeds; whole classified advertising pages are
produced automatically by computer; soon the rotary press
will be transformed by the advent of computer-driven ink
Jets. It is almost technologically possible—today—for a press
in, say, Lexington to receive microwave facsimiles of the
pages of the New York Times, Wall Street Journal, TV Guide,

Newsweek and the Richmond News Leader, print the proper
combination of these journals without stopping the press for
even an instant, and provide the local news carrier with
whatever selection of newspapers and magazines each
subscriber desires.

It almost seems that new concepts such as these appear
daily. When every new photocomposer, optical scanner, and
the like is obsolete as soon as it comes off the assembly line, it
is impossible for any college to provide its students with the
latest gadgetry. It is absolutely essential, however, to give
today’s journalism student a familiarity with the basics of the
major technological advances. In this way, he will
understand in a general way the operation of nearly any
space-age toy his employer may have just bought.

4

The New Technology, as it is called, has meant that
W&L’s journalism department has had to abandon its cut-
and paste, manual typewriter, hot-metal orientation.
Students now write their stories on the University’s new
video-display terminal, or they type them so they can be read
by optical scanners. Plans have been made to begin replacing
the department’s manual typewriters as they wear out with
scannable electrics.

These changes are taking place in conjunction with the
transformation of the Journalism Laboratory Press from an
outmoded hot-type operation to a modern photocomposition/
offset system. Because of the compatibility of the video terminal
and the Press’s photocomposer, it is now simple to print
newspapers and magazines produced by students in
journalism courses. The teaching value of this new capability
is tremendous.

The department’s response to the New Technology might
seem to foster in its students an inordinate concern for the
mechanics of the profession. Actually, the reverse seems to
be true. Because the journalism major is introduced to
modern production techniques early on, they seem less
formidable to him. Therefore, as a professional he will be
able to concentrate more fully on the intellectual and human
aspects of journalism than he would be if he were anxious
about having to use unfamiliar computer codes and
performing strange video terminal procedures.

All the information the department receives from
graduates and employers indicates that the current
curriculum has been highly successful. Recent journalism

 

Of the notions
of editors .. .
and making life

less mysterious

 

 

 

 

LE

Larry Mason, a skilled operator of the Linotype, which produced metal type,
is now an equally skilled operator of the Linocomp, the Journalism Laboratory

Press’s new photo-composition system.

1,566.

 

graduates have experienced little or no difficulty finding
good professional positions. That’s quite a claim, at a time
when the number of journalism students in the nation is
greater than all the newspaper and reporting jobs combined.
Even the most prestigious journalism schools are ecstatic if
half their graduates find jobs in the field.

Although the concept of journalism education was
originated in Lexington, Washington and Lee is hardly the
center of journalism studies today. About 20 journalism
majors graduate each year from W&L, while the most recent
tally showed nearly 65,000 journalism majors in U.S. four-
year colleges and universities.

That’s too many.

However, after nearly a decade of annual increases of 15
percent or so, the number of majors nearly leveled off last
year; whether that is the beginning of a trend is not known.
Further, “journalism” includes not only print and broadcast
journalism. Elsewhere, that umbrella term also encompasses
public relations, photojournalism, advertising, and
journalism education. The most recent national survey
placed 32 percent of the majors in the news-editorial
sequence (print), 15 percent in broadcasting, 10 percent in
advertising, and 6 percent in public relations; the remaining
37 percent were not identified as to emphasis.

Some journalism schools are larger than all of W&L. The
University of Texas at Austin lists 2,645 journalism majors,
Syracuse claims 2,015, and Boston University identifies

Although a large percentage of these 65,000 majors have

 

Many editors—in Virginia and across
the nation—see journalism education as
training for a trade. Some like that;
some don't.

Some are concerned that the
journalism major doesn’t graduate as a
finished Pulitzer Prize-winner, complete
with the literary ability of James Jackson
Kilpatrick, the doggedness of Clark
Mollenhoff and the breadth of vision of
Walter Lippmann.

Other editors believe journalism
majors have been shortchanged in their
education, that all four college years are
spent studying nothing but
communications theory and headline
writing.

Both types could have a better grasp
of what the good journalism
departments—and that includes
Washington and Lee’s—are doing.

Journalism courses generally take up
about a fourth of the student’s academic
career. That leaves a lot of time for
history, English, sociology, political
science, art, mathematics, business,
economics, and so on.

This means, to the first type of
editor, that his new cub reporter might
need a year or two before he is a
seasoned veteran, before he is ready to
uncover scandals on Main Street or write
an award-winning series. It means, to
the second type of editor, that his cub
has both a journalism background and
as broad an education as any —
undergraduate.

However, both types of editors are
right about one thing: Journalism
majors need a better command of the
English language. (So, I would submit,
do engineering majors, pre-law

students, education majors and budding
psychologists.) The sad fact is that the
vast majority of the young people
pouring into the nation’s colleges today
are, in the most generous critical sense,
nearly illiterate. Some who appear in the
reporting class actually do not know that
a standard sentence must have a subject
and a predicate; others have no grasp
whatsoever of proper placement of
words, clauses, and phrases within a
sentence.

The grammatical background of the
large majority of journalism students is
so weak that the introductory reporting
course now begins with six weeks of
English. The hope is that these
beginning journalism students, with this
grounding in written expression, will be
able to grasp much better and more
quickly the fundamentals of journalistic

5

Journalism Education at WSL

a very tough time finding a job in journalism—if they look at
all—editors and news directors are turning increasingly to
journalism majors for new employees. Nationally, about 65
percent of newsroom employees are journalism majors. In
Virginia, a recently completed survey indicates it is about 45
percent. That’s a far cry from a century ago, when editors
such as Horace Greeley pleaded to be protected from
“college graduates and all other horned cattle.” His cross-
town competitor, Edward L. Godkin of the New York
Evening Post, called the idea of college-trained journalists “an
absurdity.”

A hundred years later, many editors sing a different
tune. At least half a dozen times a year, an editor or news
director seeking prospects for a reporting or desk job will
call the W&L journalism department. But the Greeleys and
the Godkins remain. A large percentage of editors have a
poor grasp of what journalism education is and what it ought
to be.

Most W&L majors are outraged to learn that many
editors consider the standards at journalism schools too low.
The students are firmly convinced that W&L standards are
so stiff that they have difficulty competing in the job market
and for graduate school acceptance. (If they competed only
on the basis of grades, they might be correct.) It is not clear
why editors—throughout the nation as well as in Virginia—
have a low opinion of journalism majors, but it could be that
a good percentage of the job-seekers they see are those
whose lack of skills keeps them hunting for jobs. The good

 

Thomas W. Tinsley is the University’s audio-visual electronics technician. He
ws a 1975 WSL graduate who majored in the interdepartmental sciences and

ones aren’t hunting; they’re working.

mathematics program.

 

communication.

It is not just the journalism
department at Washington and Lee that
sees this problem. Illiteracy is
widespread throughout this University
and in colleges and universities across
the nation. In fact, judging by the
relative success W&L journalism
graduates have in the job market, they
must be better than the average.

This is both a satisfying and
troubling conclusion. It is good to know
that W&L students and graduates
perform as well as the best. But it is
upsetting to realize that the general level
of language ability has dropped so low.
If young people interested in
communicating events and ideas handle
the language so poorly, how weak must
be the language skills of those receiving
the information!

6

This spreading illiteracy is truly a
national crisis, for in this increasingly
complex world an inability to
understand or be understood is a
crippling burden.

It is not that today’s college students,
or high-school juniors, or third graders,
are dullards. The fact is that they have
not been taught. They have been
cheated, as Vermont Royster put it, of
their educational birthright, an
understanding of their own language.

Concerns about declining language
skills cannot be dismissed as the
expected carping of an intellectual
elitist. It matters greatly whether one
can think in concepts, whether one can
express himself with clarity and
exactness. This is obvious to anyone who
has ever attempted to converse in his
high-school French or German.

Deprived of commonly understood
words and language structures, he is
reduced to the level of a child and is
barely capable of communicating the
simplest of ideas. Making practical use
of a liberal education becomes little
more than a wild dream.

As Royster says, “The plain truth is
that without language we can neither
learn nor think. And those to whom
written language is a mystery find, like
some primtive people, that the world
itself is a mystery.”

So in its broadest sense, the
Washington and Lee journalism
department’s increased emphasis on the
skills required of a competent journalist
can be viewed as an attempt to assure
that, for its majors, life will be a little less
of a mystery.

—H.H.S.

By Robert S. Keefe, 68

Investigative reporting
as taught by the master

“Nineteen of the seniors in my seminar are already better than
75 percent of the reporters I’ve known.” —Clark R. Mollenhoff,
professor of journalism at WSL, quoted in Weekend Magazine,
a 1.7 million circulation news-feature magazine published in
Montreal.

Clark Mollenhoff knows good reporting when he sees it,
because he practices it. He has a Pulitzer to prove it; he’s won
three Sigma Delta Chi Awards, the highest honor the
nation’s newsmen can confer on one of their own. He’s had a
Nieman Fellowship, the most prestigious in journalism; he’s
the author of eight books about politics and has six honorary
degrees.

Clark Mollenhoff is one of the acknowledged leaders in
investigative reporting. He’s the one who told America what
Jimmy Hoffa and Bobby Baker were up to. He won his
Pulitzer for “persistent inquiry into labor racketeering” when
Woodward and Bernstein were still in grade school.

Clark Mollenhoff is no sniper without a feel for what it’s
like to be on the inside. A lawyer by education, he’s been in
government himself—briefly, to be sure. His assignment was
to guarantee a high standard of ethics in the Nixon
administration. (That year-and-a-half just might represent
“one of the biggest failures in history,” he says now. He got
out in mid-1970; his book, Game Plan For Disaster, tells the
whole story as he saw it begin to unfold.)

Clark Mollenhoff teaches at Washington and Lee. But
make no mistake about it: he has hardly retired into an ivory
tower. The last thing he can be called is aclassroom |
theoretician. He teaches, and he continues to investigate and
report. His own once-a-week column, Watch on Washington, is
syndicated nationally by the Des Moines (Iowa) Register and
Tribune, the papers he worked for from 1941 until he joined
the W&L faculty last year (with time out for Navy service
during World War II, his Nieman Fellowship in 1949-50, an
Eisenhower Fellowship in 1960-61, and his White House
sojourn in 1969-70).

And now his students investigate and report alongside
him. (They call the course “Super Snoop & Scoop.”) Are they
any good? Well, for starters, just ask Henry Howell, the
Democratic party candidate for governor in this fall’s
elections in Virginia; or ask a gentleman named Robert
Eugene Bales, of Glade Spring, in far southwest Virginia.

Bales, 37, “is a handsome, articulate charmer,” the W&L
advanced investigative journalism class reported last spring,
“who talks with enthusiasm and seeming authority on the
fortunes to be made through investments in the coal-rich
mountain lands of Virginia, West Virginia, and Kentucky.”

Bales had operations everywhere, it seemed—even in
Rockbridge County. His projects have names like “Treasure
Mountain,” a “super-suburban development” near
Abingdon, Va., planned to include 558 homes, 100

 

Clark Mollenhoff

condominiums, a large apartment complex, an 18-hole golf
course, camping and picnic areas, a pool, tennis courts, even
a 75-acre lake. The mayor of Glade Spring, perhaps
understandably, called Bales “the town’s leading
businessman.”

And Bales wanted Henry Howell, the firebrand populist
former lieutenant governor, to beat the more traditionalist
attorney general, Andrew P. Miller, in this summer’s primary
for the Democratic nomination to run for Virginia’s number-
one job.

Howell won the nomination—but no thanks to Bales.

Mollenhoff’s students had been looking into Bales’
operations for a long time, starting in Rockbridge, eventually
realizing that the network of leads stretched from New York
to Florida. They found that the Treasure Mountain deal had
collapsed in 1973, its bills unpaid (a North Carolina architect
filed for almost $1 million in unpaid claims), its charter

7

 

Journalism Education at WSL

revoked by the state. Meanwhile, Bales found himself in
trouble with an apartment complex he was developing in
nearby Bristol, when one of his largest investors, a local
bank, discovered that substandard building materials were
being used in construction. One of the buildings
subsequently collapsed, and Bales filed for bankruptcy on
behalf of the apartment project too.

In the end, the W&L investigators/reporters learned that
while Bales had never served time in prison, judgments of
more than $1 million had been entered against him and the
“multiplicity of corporations” with which he has been
involved over the past decade. He’d been convicted of grand
larceny in Rockbridge County; he’d pled no contest in
federal court to two counts of tax evasion and two of bank
fraud.

Pieces of the story had appeared in print, of course, from
time to time, from place to place. But nobody knew the
extent of it. What had been reported in the Louisville papers
(when Bales was found guilty of trespassing on land to which
he claimed to have title), for instance, had never seen the
light of print in Bristol. For the most part, his convictions
and the judgments against him had been treated as local
incidents.

‘The Howell connection arose when Bales gave a $5,000
check to the candidate’s badly underfinanced campaign at
the end of May, just two weeks before the primary. The
media portrayed Howell as almost certain to lose, in large
part because his opponent was outspending him
dramatically.

Howell, unaware of Bales’ criminal record and financial
problems, accepted the check and Bales’ pledge of further
contributions of $25,000 to $75,000 jubilantly—at first.

_ The academic year at W&L had just ended, and
Mollenhoff, who has no discernible ideological tugs (he is
skeptical of politicians of every stripe and is convinced that

the abuse of power in office knows no party bounds), gave
the media copies of the students’ formal report as soon as it
was completed. They had known of no tie between Howell
and Bales.

Howell returned Bales’ check instantly—with a P:S. that
the campaign would accept no further help from him.

From Mollenhoff the students had learned “ ‘the tricks of
the trade’-—how to dig through obscure public records, how
to get a reluctant source to talk, what to look for, how to look
for it,” one participant wrote in a background article for the
Ring-tum Phi.

They started with Bales’ Rockbridge land scheme—a
legal loose end that deserved looking into and seemingly
manageable in scope for a term’s work. (Nobody knew then
that it was an iceberg-tip.) Bales had made the mistake of
paying title-transfer costs with a rubber check made out to
the clerk of circuit court. He pled guilty in 1976 to a charge
of grand larceny and was given a one-year suspended
sentence and a $500 fine.

The students divided into teams, one assigned to dig into
Bales’ background, another to investigate the pattern of his
maneuverings in the county. “Once the teams swung into
high gear, it was obvious the class had stumbled upon a
larger mess than it had anticipated,” the Ring-tum Phi
background article reported. Students traveled to Bristol and
Abingdon, to Harrisonburg and Staunton, to Richmond and
Roanoke, to cities in West Virginia and Kentucky in pursuit
of the facts. The result? “Profiles of several exceedingly slick
businessmen who operate in the ‘grey’ area of the law. .. . If
the amount of information the class now has is enormous,
then the amount left to be uncovered is simply colossal.

“The story, for the most part, was all out in the open. It
had just never been pulled together before.”

Which is investigative reporting with impact—taught by
the master.

 

&
LG gazette

Kresge library challenge grant;

Holt law scholarships; new computer

 

Kresge Foundation announces

$250,000 library challenge gift

The Kresge Foundation of Troy,
Mich., has made a $250,000 challenge
grant to Washington and Lee in support
of construction of the new
undergraduate library building.

To meet the terms of the grant,
W&L must raise the remaining cost of
constructing the new facility, estimated
at a total of $9 million. Not counting the
Kresge grant, the University has raised a
total of $8.1 million toward that cost as
of mid-August.

Construction on the new building—
the largest physical element in
Washington and Lee’s ongoing
development program for the decade of
the 1970s—was begun last summer.
When it is completed, the new structure
will replace the 69-year-old Cyrus Hall
McCormick Library, which in turn will
be renovated to become the new home
of the W&L School of Commerce,
Economics, and Politics.

The Board of Trustees decided to
proceed with construction last summer
when bids were received showing that
the library and associated projects could
be completed for considerably less than
previous estimates had indicated, if
contracts were awarded quickly.

At a special board meeting last
summer, trustees themselves committed
an additional $1.5 million specifically
toward the library project in order to
narrow the gap between the cost of the
project and the funds available. Those
gifts were in addition to $12.4 million in
previous contributions by W&L board
members toward the library and other
portions of the decade-long
development program.

Of the $8.1 million raised toward the
library project, $2.7 million has been
contributed by foundations,
corporations and other friends of the
University, and $5.3 million has been
contributed by alumni.

“The generosity of the Kresge
Foundation brings us a long way toward

 

challenge grant, 1s well under way.

completing the fund-raising for our
badly needed new library,” W&L
president Robert E. R. Huntley said in
announcing the gift. “The challenge it
contains—to raise the remaining
$650,000—we accept with gratitude and
confidence.

“No less important and no less
gratifying to Washington and Lee than
the considerable tangible value of the
grant and challenge, however, is the
knowledge that the trustees of the
Kresge Foundation have examined our
programs and our progress and have
judged them to be worthy of major
support.”

During the past 54 years, the Kresge
Foundation has made appropriations of
more than $283 million to institutions in
the fields of higher education, health
services, the arts, social welfare, and the
care of the young and the aging.
Construction and major renovation of
facilities is the foundation’s primary
concern, and grants are usually made on
a challenge basis to encourage further
fund-raising efforts.

The foundation, one of the largest in

Construction on the new undergraduate library, for which the University has recetved a $250,000

the United States in size of assets and
appropriations, was created solely
through the gifts of the late Sebastian S.
Kresge, founder of the S. S. Kresge
Company, now known as K Mart Corp.
The company and the foundation are
not related in any way.

 

Law scholarship program
established to honor Gov. Holt

A new program of honor
scholarships in the School of Law has
been established through a $200,000
endowment from the Sarah and Pauline
Maier Scholarship Foundation, Inc., of
Charleston, W.Va.

Income from the endowment fund
will support aid grants to outstanding
West Virginia law students at W&L, in
memory of the late Homer A. Holt,
governor of West Virginia from 1937 to
1941 and a graduate and long-time
trustee of Washington and Lee.

The $200,000 endowment will be
administered by the West Virginia
Emulation Fund, a trust created by the

9

 

Gov. Homer Holt

Maier Foundation to supervise its
scholarship endowments at private
colleges and universities.

Recipients of the Homer Holt Honor
Scholarships will be named each year by
the law school on the bases of academic
distinction and personal and
professional promise.

The Maier Foundation was created
in 1958 by William J. Maier Jr., and
Holt, then an attorney in the private
practice of law, helped draft its charter.

Holt, a West Virginia native, received
his undergraduate degree from
Washington and Lee in 1918 and his law
degree five years later. He taught law at
W&L for two years, and then began
practicing law in Fayetteville, W.Va.

He was elected state attorney general
in 1932, and achieved distinction in the
fields of state taxation, public education,
and roads. His four-year term as
governor followed, and after retiring
from public service he became
general counsel for Union Carbide
Corp. and later resumed private practice
with the prestigious Charleston law firm
of Jackson, Kelly, Holt & O’Ferrell.

He was elected a trustee of
Washington and Lee in 1940, and
retired from the board in 1969. He died
Jan. 16, 1975, shortly before his 77th
birthday.

In a formal resolution, the W&L
board described Holt as “a giant in his
profession . . . one of the greatest
statesmen in the history of West
Virginia.” His service to W&L as a board
member, the resolution said, had been
characterized by “tough-minded wisdom
. .. devotion to high ideals of education
and principles of integrity.”

In establishing the memorial to Holt
at Washington and Lee, the Maier
10

 

Foundation described him this way: “In
his private life this man of genius was
distinguished by his humility, and his
personal demeanor toward all his fellow
creatures was an outstanding
characteristic.”

 

Atkins assumes
No. 2 alumni post

Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins II, a 1968
W&L graduate, is the new assistant
alumni secretary at Washington and
Lee. He began his duties Aug. 8.

Prior to his appointment to the W&L
post, Atkins was athletic director and a
teacher of German at Virginia Episcopal
School in Lynchburg.

As a W&L student, Atkins was active
in the Student Service Society, Student
War Memorial Scholarship Fund
Committee (SWMSFC), and Mongolian
Minks. He was an SAE, a dormitory
counselor, and a member of the football
and lacrosse teams.

 

Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins

After receiving his B.A. degree with
majors in history and German, he taught
at VES for a year, then entered the U.S.
Navy. He served on active duty until
1973, when he returned to VES.

As assistant to Alumni Secretary
Wiliam C. Washburn, he succeeds J.
Martin Bass, who has entered the
private practice of law in
Fredericksburg.

 

Grant helps University
acquire new computer

Washington and Lee will acquire the
newest generation of computer
technology this year and will inaugurate
a comprehensive program to train
faculty members in the natural and

social sciences in its use.

The new computer, a Harris S-125,
replaces W&L’s nine-year-old IBM 1130,
which was the latest word in technology
when it was purchased. Now, however,
the old IBM is unable to meet the
demands placed on it by both students
and faculty in fields where computer use
has become increasingly important—and
whose own familiarity with computer
science has become increasingly
sophisticated.

Aided by a $218,700 National
Science Foundation (NSF) grant under
its Comprehensive Assistance to
Undergraduate Science Education
(CAUSE) program, a program of
workshops will be established beginning
next summer to teach both experienced
and “neophyte” W&L faculty members
in the use of the new computer system.

The grant and University funds will
also be used to employ two consultants
for substantial periods of time—one in
the social sciences (politics, sociology,
and economics) for 15 months, and
another in geology for 12 months. Other
departments will also have the
opportunity to bring in professional
consultants for several days at a time.

In addition, the NSF/CAUSE grant
will support the purchase of remote
terminals, peripheral equipment, and
software for the system. At first, there
will be a total of 16 remote terminals on
campus, three for use in the University’s
administrative functions and 13 for
academic use. Under the CAUSE grant,
additional terminals will be added later.

The new machine is faster than the
old one by far. (For the statistically
competent, it processes about 2 million
“bits” —pieces of data—per second.) It
performs various kinds of functions all
at once. The IBM could calculate or it
could print, but it couldn’t do both at
the same time. The new generation of
computers can. In computerdom, that
sort of efficiency is essential, because it
means the machine is vastly more

productive per unit of operating time.

‘The new computer’s “memory” is
enormously greater too—336,000
“bytes” vs. 32,000 for the old IBM. (A
“byte” is a combination of bits. In
addition to handling more of them, the
new computer can take bigger bytes
than the old one.) That’s the memory
the machine actually brings inside its
circuits and actively processes during
any calculation. By using memory discs,
of course, the capacity is expanded
manyfold, and a computer can trade its
active memory for a portion of its disc
memory in a twinkling. Therefore, disc
capacity is crucial too, for it determines

how large a body of information the
computer can draw upon. The old
IBM’s discs stored 250,000 bytes; the
Harris discs handle 80 million.

The computer experts on campus
say the new system will meet all the
University’s needs for the forseeable
future—through the current generation
of technology, at least. It has the
potential for growth—its memory can be
expanded 300 percent, for instance, if
that becomes necessary.

As with the old IBM, the new
computer will be used to keep the
University’s financial accounts and many
routine records, from the payroll to
student grades. The conversion from
the IBM to the Harris will require a year
of program rewriting. But the time that
will be saved once the job is done, and
the new efficiency that will result, will
make it well worth while, the
University’s computer experts and the
general administration agree.

After the year’s conversion period,
the IBM will be phased out and
probably sold. A second campus
computer—a PDP/8 “mini-computer,” a
much smaller, simpler machine which
serves five remote terminals on a time-
sharing basis—will be kept.

 

Schildt returns to W&L
as assistant law dean

William McC. Schildt, a former
assistant United States attorney and
associate in a prominent Baltimore law
firm, has become assistant dean of the
School of Law at Washington and Lee,
effective Sept. 10.

Schildt is a 1964 B.A. graduate of
W&L, summa cum laude, and received
his law degree from the University in
1968. He was elected to membership
in Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta
Kappa, and the Order of the Coif.

Schildt was previously a member of
the undergraduate administration at
W&L from 1968 to 1972, as assistant
(later associate) dean of students and
admissions director. In 1970 he was
given additional responsibilities as
coordinator of the freshman year, then a
new position at W&L. He also taught
law, commerce, and administration
during that time.

He left W&L in 1972 to join the
Baltimore law firm of Miles &
Stockbridge, and later became an
assistant U.S. attorney for the district of
Maryland, working with U.S. Attorneys
George Beall and Jervis Finney. He
resumed the private practice of law with
Miles & Stockbridge last February.

 

William McC. Schildt

As assistant law dean, Schildt will
work in general administration and in
law admissions. The new position
reflects a substantial increase in the
scope of law-school activities and is also
a response to the gradual increase in the
size of the law student body that has
become possible with the opening of
Lewis Hall last year, according to Dean
Roy L. Steinheimer Jr.

Eventually, W&L will have a law-
school student body of 350 men and
women, the size long indentified as ideal
for a program of the character of
Washington and Lee’s. Before the new
$9-million facility was completed, the
size of the W&L law school had been
limited by a lack of sufficient space to
about 250 students.

 

Two W&L scientists
receive research grants

Two scientists at Washington and
Lee have been awarded grants to
support their research.

Frederic L. Schwab, professor of
geology, has received a North Atlantic
Treaty Alliance grant for research he
will conduct this fall in Europe while on
sabbatical. He will study the characteris-
tics and distribution patterns of sedimen-
tary rocks in the French, Swiss, and
Italian Alps and in the Appenine belt in
northwestern Italy.

Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology and head of the department,
has received a $24,200 grant renewal
from the National Science Foundation
(NSF) to support continuation of his
pioneering research into the functions

of the hippocampus, a small segment of
the brain which is associated with
motivation, memory, and patterns of
basic behavior such as eating, drinking,
and sleeping. Since 1965, the federally
supported NSF has provided a total of
more than $200,000 in support of his
hippocampal studies.

 

British vulcanologist elects
W&L-Oxford exchange

A prominent British geologist who is
an authority on volcanoes will inaugurate
a newly established faculty exchange
program between Washington and Lee
and Oxford in England.

John David Bell is visiting professor
of geology at W&L for the fall term. Bell
is university lecturer in petrology in the
department of geology and mineralogy
at the University of Oxford, Sollas
Fellow in geology at University College,
and lecturer in geology at Keble College.
University and Keble Colleges are
component institutions of Oxford.

In turn, Lewis H. LaRue, W&L
professor of law, will spend the autumn
semester at Oxford under the exchange
program. LaRue, an authority in
constitutional law, will conduct research
at the prestigious British university into
the relationships between law and
society, in particular from the point of
view of the influence of the English
judicial system on the national economy.

The exchange program was
developed by Leonard E. Jarrard, head
of W&L’s psychology department, and
Lord Redcliffe-Maud, then master of
University College, Oxford. Jarrard
spent the 1975-76 year on a W&L-
sponsored sabbatical at University
College, teaching and carrying out
advanced research in his area of
specialization, the portion of the brain
known as the hippocampus.

Bell has been associated with Oxford
since 1956, the year he received his B.A.
degree there. He also holds the D.Phil.
and M.A. degrees from Oxford.

He is managing editor of the Journal
of Petrology and is the author of
Volcanoes, to be published by John Wiley
& Sons Ltd., and co-author of Practical
Study of Igneous Rocks, forthcoming from
George Allen & Unwin Ltd.

Bell is secretary of Oxford’s
Expedition Council, and he has led or
participated in expeditions to Ascension
Island in the South Atlantic, Iceland,
Greenland and Sicily. Among his
current research interests are
geophysical and petrological studies of
Mount Etna.

11

 

 

Fine Arts Workshop actors portray epitaphs on the
new terrace of Lee Chapel.

 

Workshop Players perform
on new Chapel terrace

Lee Chapel’s new terrace, donated by
the Garden Club of Virginia, was put to
a novel use this summer by the
Rockbridge Fine Arts Workshop. It
played the part of a cemetary.

The Workshop presented Spoon
River Anthology by Edgar Lee Masters, a
collection of epitaphs in a small-town
cemetary (called “The Hill”) which
portray the lives of the people buried
there. The actors, portraying
tombstones, stood on W&L’s front lawn
(also known as “The Hill’).

To add further to the setting, the
play was presented at sunset, although
that may have been to protect the
audience from the hot Lexington
summer.

Dan Scott, a May graduate who
majored in drama, was the instructor for
the workshop. Two of his three classes
participated in Spoon River Anthology.

His third class presented Dylan
Thomas’ Under Milkwood inside Lee
Chapel following the Masters play.
Under Milkwood is similar to Spoon River
Anthology in that both portray life in
small towns.

 

12 named to faculty

Twelve new teachers have joined the
faculty at Washington and Lee.

A prominent clinical psychologist
who taught psychiatry and psychology at

12

 

the University of Pittsburgh School of
Medicine, H. E. (Gene) King, has been
named professor of psychology at W&L.
King, an authority in the fields of
behavior, learning, mental disorders and
psycho-surgery, is the author of more
than 80 research articles and essays
published in books, scholarly
periodicals, and encyclopedias.

Named visiting professors of law
were Frederic Lee Kirgis of the
University of California at Los Angeles
and Thomas H. Sponsler of Loyola
University (New Orleans). Kirgis,
formerly an associate in the Washington
firm of Covington & Burling, began his
teaching career at Colorado in 1967 and
went to UCLA in 1974. Sponsler, a
faculty member at Loyola since 1968,
has been a visiting professor at

Mississippi, Tulane, and Louisiana State
University.

New assistant professors in The
College, W&L’s undergraduate arts and
sciences division, are Robert E. Danford
(McCormick Library), Robert J. deMaria
(journalism and communications),
Robert P. Fure (English), Carren O.
Kaston (English), and John J. Wielgus
(biology).

New instructors in The College are
Stephen S. Hahn (McCormick Library),
George A. Planansky (geology),
Constantine Roussos (mathematics), and
John N. Swift (English).

All the appointments were effective
Sept. 1 except Hahn’s. He began work as
assistant reference and public services
librarian on June 15.

 

a bits and pieces

[J Roger Mudd, ’50, the CBS news-
man, has joined the crusade to reha-
bilitate the memory of his ancestor, Dr.
Samuel Mudd, the physician who set
the broken leg of John Wilkes Booth
after Abraham Lincoln’s assassination
in 1865.

Dr. Mudd was tried and convicted
of complicity in the murder of the
President. But many history buffs—
not to mention the Mudd family—
believe Dr. Mudd did not know at the
time whom he was treating.

“I think Dr. Mudd got railroaded,”
the Associated Press quoted Roger
Mudd (“one of the more famous de-
scendants of the physician”) as saying.
“As the bumper sticker says, I think he
ought to be freed.” Roger Mudd is a
nephew six times removed.

The descendants, led by Rep. Paul
Simon (D-IIl.), Dr. Mudd’s grandson,
have asked President Carter to reverse
Dr. Mudd’s military conviction.

(J You probably always thought The
Eyes of Texas was a Texan song. Well, it
is, but the phrase, at least, had its
origins in olde  Virginia—at
Washington College.

According to an article by George
Carmack of the San Antonio Express-
News, it all traces back to one Col.
William Lambdin Prather, a student at
Washington College during the Lee
years. Prather went on to become
president of the University of Texas in
1899. He recollected Gen. Lee “would
often tell his student body, ‘The eyes of
the South (or the nation) are upon
you.’” Col. Prather was apparently

 

quite taken with the phrase, and
adapted it himself. “In his frequent
speeches to the [University of Texas]
student body, Prather would say
‘Young ladies and gentlemen, the eyes
of Texas are upon you.’ He got the idea
from Gen. Lee.”

Prather used the phrase so much,
in fact, that it became a sort of campus
joke. And when an undergraduate at
Texas, John Lang Sinclair, essayed to
write a school song for the glee club to
perform, it was inevitable what the first
line would be.

LI “Get out of the way, here comes a grooved
pitch .. . On the softball field in Plains
this past week, the game waxed grim. It
was the Press versus the White House.
Billy Carter, who plays on the Press
side, takes it all very seriously. He
became quite naughty, Earwigs, after
the Press team’s captain, Maurice
Fliess [’66], White House correspon-
dent from the Atlanta Constitution, sent
in a Girl to play second base. Bad Billy,
who does’ not _ subscribe __to
Womensports, began howling: ‘I'll
break your other arm!’ (Maurice had
had a nasty bump earlier) and ‘The
Constitution’s a commie rag!’ (Ear
expects he meant Fliess’s paper.) ‘You
think I’m kidding! I’m serious!’ Billy
bawled. And he proved it, Earwigs. He
grooved his pitches for the rest of the
game. Ear is horrified, and it doesn’t
even know what grooving pitches
means.”—Item in “Ear,” the
outrageous gossip column in the
Washington Star, Aug. 13 (reprinted
with permission).

 

 

By Douglass Dewing, ’77

— Internships offer WSL students
practical experience off campus

In recent years, many colleges and
universities, not least among them
Washington and Lee, have attempted to
broaden their students’ academic
experience through the use of
internships: off-campus, practical work
experiences.

During an internship the student is
supervised by a professional. The
internship almost always results in a
greater understanding of the
professional world for the student and,
in many cases, improves his chances to
gain a job.

The value that students place on the
internship is indicated by a politics
student’s comment in a formal paper to
his professor after an internship:

“This three-month ordeal taught me
more about politics and government
than I learned in three years in college.
In fact, I think you could read all the
books in print on these subjects and still
not have the insight into politics such as
the one I have received. Reading and
experiencing are two drastically
differing phenomenons. The internship
pulled together, and made sense out of,
all the reading and learning I have done
in the last three years.”

Several Washington and Lee
students took internships this year.

Michael Missal, ’78, interned with
Connecticut Senator Abe Ribicoff.

Mark Bennett, ’78, worked in the
Venezuelan mission to the United
Nations.

Scott Thomas, a journalism and
history major who graduated in May,
spent the winter term in Washington,
D.C., as an intern in the office of U.S.
Representative Paul Simon (D.-I11.)
under the auspices of the Sears
Congressional Internship Program for
Journalism Students.

David McLean, ’78, worked in the
office of U.S. Rep. Harold C.
Hollenbeck (R.-N.J.) during the spring
term.

Patrick J. Reilly, a May graduate in
politics, spent the winter term as a
legislative aid to a Pennsylvania state
representative.

James N. Falk, another
May graduate who majored in politics,
was one of 10 Virginia college students
participating in a library internship
program sponsored by the George C.
Marshall Research Foundation.

Robert Hedelt, ’78, worked during
the spring for the Fredericksburg Free-
Lance Star.

The purpose of the internships, both
special and departmental, is to provide
the student with an opportunity to
combine practical on-the-job experience
with academic learning.

Four departments at Washington
and Lee offer internships: journalism,
politics, art and sociology. Although the

 

  

In Politics

 

 

students work off-campus, their
professors maintain regular contact, and
the student must prepare a formal
paper evaluating the program and his
experiences at the end of the semester.

The journalism internship is strongly
recommended by every member of the
department. Even though it is not
required for the major, the professors
feel it is invaluable for the student.

“It is the practical climax of our
program,” said Hampden H. Smith III,
assistant professor and a former editor
for the Richmond News-Leader. “It
makes our students readily employable.”

Smith said the average rate of

placement for journalism schools is
about 50 percent. W&L scores very close
to full employment, and Smith credits
the internship program for part of that.

“The internship often leads to an
offer of summer employment,” Smith
said, “or an offer to return after
graduation. One student got a job and
never came back from his internship.

“The internship allows the student to
tread the fine line between theoretical
and practical courses so he has the
sophistication and background which
leads to employment. It is vital that the
student gain the kind of professional
experience that the internship can
offer,” Smith said.

Scott Thomas’s internship with Rep.
Simon was a special program sponsored
by Sears, Roebuck & Co. The program is
intended to give promising students
contacts and experience in the nation’s
capital. Only 25 students are accepted
each year, and they rank at the top of
their class. Thomas was one of two Phi
Beta Kappa students in the program.

He worked in almost every facet of

office operations: from preparing

resolutions and statements for the
Congressman to taking coffee pots to
the Congressional Wives’ luncheon (the
Congressman’s wife was the chairman)
to stapling press releases.

At the same time, he was researching
the topic of his honors thesis in history.

Robert Hedelt’s internship with the
Fredericksburg, Va., newspaper resulted
in an offer of summer employment.
Practical experience like that will help
when he looks for a job in the tight
newspaper market after graduation.

The intern program which seem to
have yielded the best results for the
journalism department is with Roanoke’s
station WDBJ-TV. Three Washington
and Lee graduates work for the station
now: Tom Mattesky, ’74, and Paul
Lancaster, ’75, are reporters, and John
Kessling, ’73, is the assignment editor.
Both Mattesky and Lancaster were
interns with WDBJ; Lancaster began
work with the station right after
graduation.

13

 

WEL Internships

Career training is also the purpose of
the art department’s internship
program. Rather than place students in
commercial art firms, the program
arranges internships with museums.

“Most W&L students aren’t aware of
the field. It takes effort to educate them,
to show them this is one area they
should consider,” said Gerard Doyon,
the program’s coordinator.

“Ten years ago, or even five, there
weren't as many art students graduating.
They could get teaching jobs; it was just
about guaranteed. Now the teaching
field is virtually closed.

“Most students want to go into studio
art,” he continued, “but for each studio
art position there are ten applicants.

“The museum area is expanding.
Community museums are springing up
everywhere. Since 1945, small
community-centered museums have
been opening at the rate of one a
month.”

The Washington and Lee program is —

modeled after one at Brown University.
Students are required to have a solid
liberal arts background and two years of
a foreign language. Brown places its
students in a museum associated with
the university. “W&L doesn’t really have
a full-fledged museum,” said Doyon, “so
we try to place students with the
Virginia Museum, the North Carolina
Museum, Chrysler Museum in Norfolk,
or in a museum in their home town.”
Although no one participated in the
program this year, a number of
past participants have taken jobs in
museums or related fields.

Mark Miller, ’73, spent his internship
with the Virginia Museum, which
offered him a grant so he could earn a
master’s degree in museum training. He
recently opened his own art gallery and
custom framing shop in Richmond.

Frederick W. Woodward III, ’73,
intended to major in history at
Washington and Lee, switched to art
history, and took the internship
program. He is now pursuing a Ph.D. in
the museum field at Brown University.

14

 

a

In Journalism

 

 

Donald McBride III, ’74, took his
internship with the North Carolina
Museum. As a double-major in art and
German, his specialty was research in
German, which is almost the standard
language for cataloguing. He’s carrying
out research now in the Washington,
D.C., area.

Perhaps the most popular intern
program is in politics. The department
keeps its program flexible, encouraging
students to work in programs they
themselves discover, in programs the
department finds, or in established
programs. Students can be paid, unpaid
or partially paid. They can work on the
federal, state or local level, in the
legislative, executive or judicial
branches, with candidates, political
parties, interest groups or lobbyists, or
with any other institution or person
which will provide them with practical
learning experience in the field of
politics.

Congressional internships seem to be
the most common. Yet some students
seem disillusioned upon their return.

Interestingly, the students who
obtain internships in the Senate, the
more prestigious branch of the
Congress, often complain about the lack
of responsibility with which they are
entrusted.

Michael Missal, in Sen. Ribicoff’s
office, said many of the staff members
felt an “intern should be seen but not
heard.” When he asked the senator’s
administrative assistant about a topic for
the paper he needed to write for the
politics department, the man suggested
he write on “gophering.”

Another intern, who worked for a
senator in 1975, wrote, “Interns are
placed under the supervision of one
staff member and work in that
particular area. As such, they obtain an
in-depth view of one aspect of the
office’s operation, but must make an

effort to gain the overall view.

“Congressional interns, on the other
hand, seem to handle more of a variety
of tasks,” this student observed,
“although they still do not break into the
upper echelons. One intern knows his
congressman very well, is entrusted with
answering mail, and performing several
different tasks. Another attends dinners
and other engagements for his
representative when the congressman
has a scheduling conflict. This can be
contrasted with the fact that I have yet
to personally meet the senator and |
indeed in three weeks have only seen
him twice. The smaller Congressional
staffs allow interns more variety, while
the Senate staffs allow more freedom for
the intern to explore on his own.”

That intern was working for the
minority staff in one of the Senate’s
subcommittees, rather than in the
senator’s office, and was given much
more latitude than the usual Senate
intern.

Missal worked on several projects,
including a speech submitted to the
Congressional Record and research on bills
the senator was considering, but that
was during time he hadn’t been assigned
other work and at the request of an
over-worked staffer.

He also spent a lot of time opening
mail, but was not deemed responsible
enough to put it on the desk of the
legislative assistant to whom it was
addressed. Still, he was asked to

continue working for Sen. Ribicoff’s
office during the summer, with some
increased responsibilities, and seemed to
enjoy his work.

Dave McLean, working for
Pennsylvania Rep. Hollenbeck, wrote in
his paper of the overwhelming priority a
congressman places on his re-election.
The pressure for re-election influences
every action a congressman makes,
McLean concluded, yet for the most
part, those attempts can be squared with
the idea of a representative government.

Working in the smaller office of a
congressman, McLean was given greater
responsibility than Missal was in the
Senate. He handled all of the office mail
dealing with the controversial New
Jersey Flood Plain program. He also
planned and directed a weekend
seminar on the subject in the
congressman’s home district. McLean
also accepted a summer position in
Washington, as a special assistant on
Hollenbeck’s staff.

Lin Fine Arts

 

 

 

Pat Reilly worked with Pennsylvania
State Rep. Joseph Zeller, a maverick in
the Pennsylvania state house who put
Reilly to work on land use plans for the
state. In the course of his work, Reilly
moved from unpaid intern to paid
secretary for the Land Use Task Force, a

committee which reported to the
Pennsylvania Intergovernmental
Council, while continuing to work for
Zeller.

Reilly returned from Pennsylvania
enthusiastic about a career in politics,
but aware of the opportunities for abuse
of the system as well. In his paper he
told his professor of the perils which
befall a maverick legislator who doesn’t
play ball in a legislature dominated by a
machine. —

Mark Bennett went from his intern-
ship in the Venezuelan mission to
Geneva, where he participated in an
International Youth Conference
sponsored by the United Nations. The
arrangements allowing him to go to the
summer conference were made by his
supervisors in the mission.

Following his graduation in May, Jim
Falk participated in a second internship
program. After spending the summer in
Washington working for the Middle East
Institute, Falk will do graduate work at
the University of Virginia. His summer
work ranged from researching middle
eastern political issues to attending
banquets welcoming dignitaries to ar-
ranging and directing an art show. The
show featured the work of four women,
one of whom was Falk’s late mother.
Falk arranged to bring the paintings to
the U. S., handled all the arrangements
for the show and directed the publicity.

The newest internship program at
Washington and Lee is in the sociology
department. As with the others, the
combination of practical on-the-job
experience with theoretical work is the
critical factor in that program.

But there is a difference.

There are a number of areas in which the
sociology department does not have
courses. The internship is an opportunity
for the student to obtain knowledge in
fields outside the University’s
curriculum.

“It is an option available for students
who might benefit from new
knowledge,” said Emory Kimbrough,
coordinator of the program. “It gives

them the opportunity to try out things
related to their studies. For instance, we
don’t offer any courses in corrections.
By sending a student to work in the field
of corrections, we give him experience
and knowledge which the department

can’t offer now.

In Sociology

 

 

 

)

“We also try to make the internship
relevant to the major. If a psychology
major takes the course, we'll try to place
him in a mental hospital, or in some
other related program. We want the
internship to bear on his major work.”

Students who go into the program
often find they'll be working far harder
than they would have at school. “They
can spend as many as 40 to 50 hours a
week on the job,” said Kimbrough,
“often with no remuneration. And some
of the students who go into the field
undergo ‘culture shock’ and have to
work their way out of that, too.”

The department does not have a
permanent list of opportunities yet.
When a student has an idea for a place
or field he would like to try, the
department will try to place him.

“We’ve had five people go through
the program,” said Kimbrough, “and
we're very pleased so far. But we are
new at this and we're still feeling our
way along.”

15

Annual Fund hits all-time high
despite drop in participation

The 1976-77 Annual Fund reached an all-time high of |

$705,866 in gifts from alumni, parents, and friends—almost
$18,000 more than last year’s record-setting total of $687,885.
The average gift also hit an all-time high of $135.74, up from
last year’s record high of $128.58. However, the number of
donors fell from 5,350 last year to 5,200, and participation
dropped from 34 percent to 32.3 percent.

Leadership for the 1976-77 Annual Fund was provided by
J. Carter Fox, ’61A, Annual Fund chairman and Academic
Alumni chairman. Assisting him were S. Maynard Turk, ’52L,
Law Alumni chairman; John H. Van Amburgh, Current
Parents chairman; and W. Martin Kempe, Past Parents
chairman.

The 1976-77 trophy winners were:

The Washington Trophy—for the largest amount raised by an
academic class graduated in the last 50 years—went to the Class
of 1940A, Thomas E. Bruce, Class Agent, with a record-setting
total of $35,707. This was the second consecutive year that
1940A has won the Washington Trophy.

The Richmond Trophy—for the highest participation by an
academic class graduated in the last 50 years—went to the Class
of 1954A, Frank A. Parsons, Class Agent, with a record-setting
percentage of 60.8. Parsons previously won the Richmond
Trophy in 1974-75 with the old record of 58.7 percent.

The Bierer Trophy—for the highest participation by an
academic class graduated in the last 10 years—went to the Class
of 1971A, John M. McCardell Jr., Class Agent, with a partici-
pation of 33.6 percent. This was the second consecutive year
that McCardell has won the Bierer Trophy.

The Malone Trophy—for the largest amount raised by a law
class graduated in the last 50 years—went to the Class of 1940L,
William F. Saunders, Class Agent, with a total of $6,155.

The 1976-77 Annual Fund covered 9 percent of the
University’s educational and general budget. In 1976-77, 214
alumni, parents, and friends contributed at the Lee Associates
level ($1,000 or more), and 1,674 at the Colonnade Club level
($100-$999). Although Lee Associates and Colonnade Club
givers comprised only 36 percent of the donors, their
contributions amounted to 86 percent of the Annual Fund.

REPORT OF THE ANNUAL FUND
June 30, 1977

% Avg.

Donors Dollars Part. Gift
Alumni 76-77 4,769 $623,028 34.0 $130.64
(75-76) (4,970) ($612,546) (36.2) ($123.25)
Parents 76-77 346 $ 73,198 17.1 $211.55
(75-76) (332) ($ 63,399) (16.6) ($190.96)
Friends 76-77 85 $ 9,640 — 113.41
(75-76) (48) ($ 11,940) — ($248.75)
Totals 76-77 5,200 $705,866 32.3 $135.74
(75-76) (5,350) ($687,885) (34.0) ($128.58)

16

 

     

- Thomas E. Bruce, ’*40A
Washington Trophy Winner

Frank A. Parsons, ’54A
Richmond Trophy Winner

A picture

of William F. Saunders, ’40L,
winner of the Malone Trophy
was not available.

 

John McCardell Jr., ’71A
Buerer Trophy Winner

CURRENT PARENTS—J. H. Van Amburgh, Chairman
% Avg.

Area Area Chairman Donors ___ Dollars Part. Gift
I G. G. Carroll 32 $ 4,836 17.9 $ 151
II F. N. Godin 26 2,155 14.8 83
Ill T. J. Black 47 3,415 23.5 73
IV C. C. McGehee 23 6,514 12.2 283
V B. B. Lane 17 2,180 11.6 128
VI D. W. Boyd 33 6,255 16.4 190
Vil A. T. Drennen Jr. 24 12,121 26.1 505
Vill G. G. Tucker 19 7,474 18.6 393
IX R. E. Monahan 33 5,450 = =29.5 165
Total 254 50,000 18.2 198

PAST PARENTS—W. M. Kempe, Chairman
W. M. Kempe 92 $ 22,798 13.3 $ 248

PARENTS TOTAL 346 $ 73,198 17.1 $ 212

Report of the Annual Fund by Classes

ACADEMIC CLASSES

Class Class Agent Donors Dollars
Old Guard W. C. Washburn 934 $ 42,306

GROUP I/A—H. G. Jahncke, Vice Chairman

27A G. W. McRae 44 $ 5,602
28A S. A. Wurzburger 49 15,447
29A T. G. Gibson 47 9,025
30A E. T. Jones 73 9,208
31A S. Sanders II 56 24,125
32A J. W. Ball 65 4,698
TOTAL 334 68,105
GROUP II/A—J. E. Neill, Vice Chairman

33A C. J. Longacre 54 $ 11,454
34A S. Mosovich 82 9,250
35A J. M. Franklin 52 4,165
36A G. W. Harrison 58 10,393
37A A. A. Radcliffe 66 7,730
38A E. Williams 68 20,897
39A W. A. Jenks 66 10,881
TOTAL 446 74,770
GROUP III/A—R. G. Browning, Vice Chairman
40A T. E. Bruce Jr. 48 $ 35,707
41A R. C. Peery 88 21,927
42A R. G. Browning 79 19,122
43A K. L. Shirk Jr. 79 12,715
44A G. T. Woo 73 9,114
45A C. S. Rowe 30 11,084
460A D. S. Hillman 44 6,352
ATA W. G. Merrin 22 3,635
48A H. R. Gates 22 5,437
49A E. S. Epley 101 13,065
TOTAL 586 138,158
GROUP IV/A—R. S. Griffith, Vice Chairman
50A G. A. Fritchie Jr. 91 $ 14,078
51A J. E. Moyler Jr. 82 12,472
52A W. F. Barron Jr. 101 12,183
53A H. S. Glickstein 81 7,761
54A F. A. Parsons 132 27,000
55A J. W. Stackhouse 67 9,737
56A W. W. Dixon 77 6,695
57A S. M. Ehudin 85 6,821 .
58A V. W. Holleman Jr. 90 12,682
59A C.D. Hurt Jr. 96 8,124
TOTAL 902 117,553
GROUP V/A—J. H. DeJarnette, Vice Chairman
60A R. P. Hawkins 76 $ 8,859
61A J. H. Allen Jr. 91 11,081
62A P. A. Agelasto III 90 7,580
63A D. T. Balfour 108 8,141
64A B. Gamber 86 8,430
65A A. J. T. Byrne 86 8,770
66A R. C. Vaughan III 84 4,894
67A B. M. Herman 87 4,985
68A W. F. Stone Jr. 42 3,620
69A J. E. Brown 79 4,095
TOTAL 829 70,455
GROUP VI/A—R. D. LaRue, Vice Chairman

70A J. W. Thomas III 81 $ 6,335
71A J. M. McCardell Jr. 114 5,693
7T2A R. M. Turnbull 107 4,835
73A G. A. Frierson 92 2,862
74A M. Guroian 81 4,005
7T5A B. H. Turnbull 93 3,270
76A H. M. Glover 83 1,550
TOTAL 651 28,550
ACADEMIC TOTAL 3,983 $539,909

%
Part.

33.4

40.4
46.7
34.3
56.2
35.7
43.3
42.4

37.0
50.0
35.4
36.5
36.7
41.2
31.7
38.1

28.4
43.3
39.3
37.4
42.0
20.4
32.8
31.0
27.2
50.2
36.8

29.7
35.3
43.2
35.8

33.8
31.4
40.5
38.0
43.4
38.8

30.8
40.4
33.1
37.0
29.7
31.0
26.8
29.9
14.0
24.3
29.3

23.0
33.6
30.1
24.0
21.1
22
20.3
25.1

33.2

Avg.
Gift
$ 181

$ 127

192
126
431

204

$ 212
113
80
179
117
307
165
168

$ 744

236

LAW CLASSES
Class Class Agent Donors Dollars
Old Guard W. C. Washburn 30 $ 5,235

GROUP I/L—J. N. Harman III, Vice Chairman

27L C. T. Smith 10 $ 1,183
28L G. O. Clarke 4 1,470
29L S. C. Strite 4 1,525
30L M. J. Arnd 10 1,155
31L E. Allen 8 4,701
32L J. S. Shields 9 3,188
33L F. R. Bigham 12 1,000
34L R. D. Bailey 6 2,899
35L E. T. Coulbourn 9 3,685
36L W. H. Seaton 5 260
37L H. T. Moreland 19 5,125
38L D. W. Wilkinson Jr. 10 1,435
39L = J. D. Goodin 15 650
40L W. F. Saunders 11 6,155
41L C. F. Heiner 15 1,952
42L C. F. Bagley Jr. 9 835
TOTAL 156 37,218
GROUP II/L—W. M. Anderson, Vice Chairman
48L C.R. Allen 32 $ 2,930
49L W. D. Bain Jr. 23 5,065
50L S. I. White 19 1,892
51L G. J. Kostel 23 1,762
52L .. Jol. Kiser 25 3,378
53L R. L. Banse 14 825
54L K. L. White 18 1,282
55L ‘J. M. Faison 14 972
56L M. T. Herndon 4 275
57L D. K. Frith 15 2,174
58L R. G. McCullough 7 570
59L O. A. Neff 10 1,085
TOTAL 204 22,210
GROUP III/L—H. Angel, Vice Chairman

60L I. N. Smith Jr. 18 $ 1,168
61L W. F. Ford 11 1,800
62L W. R. Moore Jr. 6 232
63L T. G. Ireland 7 305
64L R. L. Lawrence 16 755
65L F. A. Sutherland 16 772
66L R. H. Vizethann Jr. 23 1,700
67L W. R. Reynolds 21 1,502
68L L. A. Paterno Jr. 32 1,640
69L D. D. Redmond 31 1,588
TOTAL 181 11,462
GROUP IV/L—M. H. Squires, Vice Chairman
70L B. B. Cummings 26 $ 1,358
71L W. J. Borda 21 1,028
72L S. M. Hurtt 21 582
73L John C. Moore 45 1,180
74L J. S. Kline 35 1,605
75L A. Didier 40 737
76L F. L. Duemmler 28 522
TOTAL 215 6,992
LAW TOTAL 786 $ 83,119

%
Part.

21.9

76.9
33.3
33.3
71.4
57.1
42.9
66.7
35.3
56.2
35.7
100.0
50.0
45.5
52.4
55.6
27.3
51.3

42.7
32.4
40.4
29.5
48.1
41.2
64.3
37.8
16.7
50.0
26.9
29.4
38.1

48.6
28.2

18.9
32.7
33.3
46.9
36.8
42.7
43.1
36.1

51.0
36.2
28.8
44.1
39.8
49.4
34.1
,40.2

39.0

Avg.
Gift
$ 174

$ 118

409

17

 

By Sydney Lewns, ’40

Trustee

The

responsibilities

of an

alumnus

When your president [Jack DeJar-
nette] called me some time ago to speak
at this meeting, I was so pleased to find
my calendar open. There is nothing
more attractive than a captive audience
with Washington and Lee as the subject
matter.

About a year ago, I read a summary
of a then recently published article by
two economists which has remained very
vivid in my mind, even until today. The
article contained an analysis of college
education as an investment. Their
studies indicated that the “rate of
return” on a college education fell from
about 11 percent to 12 percent in 1969
to 7 percent to 8 percent in 1974. This
meant that college graduate earnings
over that of high school graduates fell
from about 11 percent to 12 percent
more annually in 1969 to about 7 percent
to 8 percent more in 1974. These
statistics have been widely quoted to
raise questions about the value of a
college education. However, in my
judgement, the analysis, on its face, was

very faulty. The economists’ theory of a
radical decline was obtained by
comparing earnings in years of good
economic growth with the earnings of
the recession years of very slow growth
in the early ’70s—and then predicting
that the future would be more like the
recession years. I just don’t believe that
any of us can buy that type of analysis.
Further, there are many advantages
of a college education from an economic
standpoint which this “rate-of-return”
analysis failed to consider. Studies tend
to show very clearly that college
graduates earn more money in a lifetime
and have a more regular and less
changing job history and are less likely
to fall into deadend jobs. Their chances
of alternative employment are much
better. They will earn more during most
of their working years, unlike the less
well educated whose earnings are likely
to fall off in their 50s. Studies also show
that college graduates are more satisfied
with their work, and as a result, with
their lives. To assume, therefore, that

 

 

 

By Sidney M. B. Coulling, ’46

Professor of English

And
of a
professor

Last spring the Richmond alumni chapter
had the privilege of hearing talks by Sydney
Lewis, a member of the Board of Trustees,
and Sidney M. B. Coulling, professor of
English. Against a background of changes in
recent years, Lewis spoke on the responsibilt-
ties of alumni, and Coulling spoke on the
responsibilities of a professor. Together these
talks offer all alumni an intimate look at
where Washington and Lee stands today.

The Phi Beta Kappa speaker at
Washington and Lee this spring,
commenting on the ambiguities of
America’s past, quoted the wry
observation by a French critic that ours
is the first nation in history to be created
perfect but still to expect progress. That
observation, I think, describes equally
well the attitude toward Washington and
Lee of her alumni, who typically believe
the University reached its pinnacle
during their student days and yet who
read eagerly about its later
developments.

The Washington and Lee they
remember, of course, depends on the
number of years they must go back in
their memories. The Washington and
Lee to which I returned as a faculty
member some 20 years ago, for
example, was a rather different place
from the Washington and Lee of today.
Dr. Gaines was then president; Mr.
Gilliam was dean of students; Robert E.
R. Huntley was a senior law student.
Farris Hotchkiss was a junior in the
College of Arts and Sciences. The
student body numbered just under
1,100—about 950 undergraduates and
120 law students; today it numbers
above 1,700—about 1,450
undergraduates (a 50-percent increase)
and more than 250 law students (an
increase of over 100 percent). In 1956

 

Sidney M. B. Coulling

 

18

 

Sydney Lewis

 

the value of a college education should
be determined solely by the “rate of
return” of earnings, which fell from
1969 to 1974, is rather absurd. College
graduates are usually not limited to a
working life in a job one might start out
in after high school. One of the great
benefits of a college education has been
to develop an individual to deal with
changing problems, resulting in a
flexibility that is more important to their
Jobs than the particular skills learned in
college.

Fortunately, almost every poll
indicates that most Americans still feel
that a college education is worthwhile—
and we certainly do not want them to
fall off that track merely because high
school graduates make somewhat more
proportionately than they used to.
Anyway you want to look at it, a college
education is worth a lot more than its
cost.

With this assumption, then, that a
college education from an economic
standpoint alone is desirable, and since

there is an obvious benefit to our
community to have more highly
educated people, I think it is important
that we consider the most obvious
responsibilities of an alumnus.

First, we should all recognize the
need to locate good students in our
particular community and persuade
them to go to Washington and Lee. The
strength of a school depends no less on
the student body than on the faculty. I
believe we, here in Richmond, are still
maintaining a good record of
encouraging outstanding young men to
attend W&L, and I hope we will try to
strengthen this effort. This is true of
many other localities, such as Baltimore,
Dallas, Atlanta, Memphis, and
Jacksonville.

However, some of our communities
which used to send contingents of
outstanding students to Washington and
Lee back in the “ancient ages” of the
30s and ’40s no longer do so. I can
attribute this primarily to the failure of
the alumni to do a really creative job of

 

 

there were some 40 full professors;
there are now twice that many. Tuition
that year was less than $500; it is today
six times that amount.

Despite these changes, however, the
University has in some ways altered
remarkably little during the past two
decades. The front campus appears
almost the same, and the students,
notwithstanding their long hair and
casual dress, are recognizably the sons of
my classmates. Furthermore, compared
with some neighboring institutions—
with John Hopkins, for instance, which
has abandoned its honor system; or with
Randolph-Macon in Ashland, which has
become coeducational; or with
Davidson, which has moved toward the
policy of amateur athletics we adopted
long ago—Washington and Lee has
hardly changed at all.

Still, it would be idle to pretend that
changes have not taken place. During
the past 20 years Wahington and Lee,
like the rest of the world, has changed in
real and significant ways, and I’ve been
asked to speak to you this evening about
how I, as a professor, view my
responsibilities as they have been
affected by these changes.

At the outset two qualifying remarks
should be made. The first is that at
Washington and Lee a professor’s
foremost responsibility is always

understood to be his teaching. My
comments, therefore, concern only those
duties beyond this obvious and
fundamental obligation of the
undergraduate teacher. The second
qualification is that I come to you as
only one member of the faculty and
don’t presume to speak for others. But
though I hope I’m not like the
Presbyterian divine who confused his
own ideas with those of the deity, I
believe that most of my colleagues would
agree basically with what I have to say.
If you think about it for a moment
you'll see that a faculty member has
responsibility toward what might be
called three constituencies—the student
body, the University, and the world of
scholarship and research. I have the
duty, for example, of supporting and
cooperating with the student-
administered honor system; I act as
adviser to freshmen and write letters of
recommendation for seniors. I also serve
on University committees and attend
faculty meetings, and occasionally, as
this evening, have the pleasant task of
speaking to alumni. And I belong to
professional organizations, such as the
Modern Language Association of
America, and contribute as I can to my
field of special study. Each of these
areas has legitimate claim to my
attention, and considering them

separately and in order I'll try to
describe how my responsibilities to them
have changed over the years.

First, the students. When I joined
the faculty 20 years ago the concept of in
loco parentis was still firmly entrenched.
Faculty members, as the phrase
indicates, were supposed to act as
surrogate parents, and the first
committee on which I served, the old
Social Functions Committee, was the
complete embodiment of this principle.
It was charged with such responsibilities
as selecting dance weekends, finding
chaperones, and preserving decorum in
Doremus Gymnasium. In keeping with
the same concept, a regular item on the
agenda of faculty meetings was a report
by the dean of students on any
misbehavior brought to his attention.
I’m embarrassed, even now, to recount
how grown men spent their time
carrying out a policy as extinct today as
the dodo.

But if the concept of in loco parentis is
dead, the faculty’s commitment to
students is not. On the contrary, it is
probably more alive than it was 20 years
ago. I have the impression that students
are entertained more widely in faculty
homes than before, and that greater
numbers of them enjoy close and lasting
friendships with members of the faculty.
Even if this impression is false, however,

 

19

 

Lewis

selling Washington and Lee.
Unfortunately, the general activity of an
alumni chapter seems to run parallel
with the failure to obtain good young
men to attend W&L. Strong alumni
chapters and strong students tend to
follow each other like day and night. We
know that the stronger and more active
the chapter, the stronger the students
from that locality. This, in turn, results
in a continuing strengthening of the
chapter, as it is constantly being
refreshed as the young men return to
the community when their education is
completed.

Obviously, it is also important that
each of us endow Washington and Lee
with as large a part of our means as we
can—both on a capital giving basis and
an annual giving basis. I am sure that all
of you here receive an annual appeal
from your class agent. These annual
funds are a very important part of the

 

Sydney Lewis

annual operating budget of Washington
and Lee. In fact, the funds raised
annually through this appeal to the
alumni consists of about 72 percent of
the total budget.

I think it is important that all of us
remember that not a single one of us
paid the full cost of our education at
W&L. The tuition that any of us paid
never paid the full cost—nor are there
any plans in the future to provide that
tuition alone will pay a student’s cost at
W&cL. Just as others have made it
possible for each of us to have an
education at Washington and Lee, the
responsibility is ours to see that those
who follow us also have this
opportunity. In the late 1930’s, my
tuition covered between 60 percent and
65 percent of the cost expended on my
education. That figure has not changed
even today. For example, a student
attending W&L today will pay tuition of
approximately $12,000 over the next
four years. The total cost to the
University for this education will be in
excess of $18,000. Therefore, when the
student graduates, he will, in truth, be
indebted to Washington and Lee to the
tune of over $6,000.

 

 

 

Coulling

a change for the better has clearly
occured: faculty counseling of students
is now at the mature and professional

level it should be.

This change is in part attributable to
the spreading influence of
permissiveness in our society and to the
corresponding decline in parental
authority, but two other reasons are of
more immediate importance. One is that
our high schools have produced
graduates whose urgent need is not for
social guidance but for academic help.
Just the other day, in reading the
London Times Literary Supplement, I ran
across this statement by a professor at
Ohio State:

Shocking as it may seem, the average Ameri-
can first-year university student has so little
formal grasp of his language, so little certainty
about using it, and such great difficulty in com-
prehending a page of even the most lucid
modern prose, that by any reasonable stand-
ard he must be regarded as a non-native
speaker.

No one would suggest that this des-
cribes the situation at Washington and
Lee, but like every other college in the
country we depend for our students on
an educational system that has become a
national scandal; and even with highly
selective admissions policies and careful

screening some students are admitted—
at Washington and Lee and everywhere
else—who are not fully prepared for
college work, particularly in English and
mathematics. The difficulty they
encounter breeds discouragement;
discouragement breeds frustration; and
frustration often breeds a sense of
defeat. At least partly because of this the
characteristic malaise among students in
recent years has been the simple
inability to do a job, to complete an
assignment, to write a required paper. It
has replaced sex and religion, the
University chaplain tells me, as the
students’ number-one problem.

The counseling of students has
become more difficult also as a result of
another national problem: the economy
has made it harder to get a job, and
much harder to get into graduate
school. Even entering freshmen are
aware of the tightness of things; whereas
a few years ago I might discuss the
Orioles or Redskins with my advisees, I
now spend all my time answering
questions about when to take economics
or whether to take accounting. The
problem has made more delicate,
especially for an adviser in the
humanities, the work of striking a
balance between courses that are
culturally enriching and those that are
“practical,” and in a number of

departments it has posed the dilemma
of whether to encourage students to
continue in areas with uncertain futures.
For career counseling, of course,
students may always obtain the
professional help of persons like the
University’s director of placement. But
the increasingly complex responsibility
of advising about courses and majors
rests finally with members of the faculty.
These, then, are the two principal
ways I’ve found my counseling of
students to have become a more
challenging task during the past few
years. But before I leave the subject of
students I’d like to mention one other
responsibility I have toward them:
attracting to Washington and Lee the
very best students we can get. I was
gratified to hear Mr. Lewis’s appeal to
you for help in student recruitment, and
I wish to echo it. John Henry Newman
once said that if he had to choose
between a university that had a large
faculty and required of its graduates an
extensive knowledge, and one that had
no faculty at all but merely brought a
number of students together for three
or four years, he would unhesitatingly
choose the latter. You can hardly expect
a professor who must support a wife
and children to make the same choice as
the celibate Newman, but there is
nevertheless profound meaning in what

 

20

 

My guess is that not very many of
you here this evening have been aware
until just recently that W&L has been
conducting a capital fund raising
campaign since 1972. Within the past 60
days, President Huntley proudly
announced the successful completion of
Phase I of our development campaign,
with the results exceeding, by over $1
million, our $36 million goal. Phase II’s
goal was originally an additional $20
million to be raised by 1980.

Obviously, however, a $56 million
total goal, which was established for the
decade of the ’70s, did in no way
anticipate the terrible inflation which
has been inflicted on our economy. As a
result, although we raised the goal
dollars in Phase I, the dollars raised
were simply not sufficient to meet
the projects originally designed for
Phase I.

In addition, it was only, finally,
through the herculean efforts of our
Board of Trustees that we were able to

begin to undertake one of the primary
projects of Phase I, namely, the library.
As some of you will recall, the letting of
the library contract was announced in
the late fall of 1976. From the time that
the library project was announced as
part of our Phase I goal in 1970, the cost
of the project escalated from $5 million
to $6 million to between $9 million and
$10 million when the contract was
finally given out, with no improvements
in the plans. In fact, if anything, there
was a slight reduction in the originally
planned library features. The difference
in cost was merely the result of
increased prices over a five-year period.
I think everyone should be aware of
the role played by the Board of Trustees
in making the library possible. When
Phase I was coming to an end in 1976,
and it was rather obvious to the Board
that the library was not going to be built
as planned because of our inability to
raise the necessary funds, it is to the
credit of the Board that, at a special
meeting called at Dulles Airport, John

Stemmons, the Development Committee
chairman, proceeded to raise about $1.7
million among fewer than 15 Trustees—
all that money in spite of the fact that
already, in Phase I, the W&L Board had
responded to the need with individual
commitments over and beyond the call
of duty.

One of the problems which we faced
in Phase I in our campaign, and one
which we will surely face in Phase II, is
that the vast majority of our alumni are
really not aware of the great needs of
the University in order to maintain a
Number | standing. I do not blame this
lack of knowledge of the University’s
needs on the alumni. After all, other
than our annual giving appeals, 95
percent of our alumni have never been
approached for a capital commitment,
either during the course of Phase I of
our current development program
during the past five years or, for that
matter, never before in their alumni life.
As a result, most alumni simply feel that
we can continue to be a top notch

 

 

 

Sidney M. B. Coulling

 

he says. Students act on the minds of
other students in ways that no faculty
member can. They affect, for good or
for ill, what takes place in the classroom,
and during the academic year they’re
outside the classroom ten hours for
every hour they’re in it. Alumni need
never fear that students at Washington
and Lee will become a collection of
eggheads or that they will lose their love
of pleasure and their ingenuity in
pursuing it. We still want the well-
rounded student we’ve always attracted.
But we want the well-rounded student
of intellectual seriousness, and when
some of our ablest students tell us that
the lack of this seriousness on campus is
Washington and Lee’s only real
weakeness, they confront us with an
inescapable responsibility: to get the best
students we can, for the sake of

the students themselves.

This suggests a second area of my
responsibility—the University as a
whole. Now precisely what do I mean?
In a legal sense the University is a
corporation; in an educational sense it is
a degree-granting institution; in a gen-
eral sense it is the alma mater
remembered in myriad ways by alumni.
But the only sense in which the
University is a living reality is the
community of scholars—faculty and
students—who are at Washington and

Lee at a given time, and if I were asked
to name the single greatest loss
accompanying the changes of the past
20 years I would say that it has been the
gradual weakening of this awareness of
community. I use the word not in the
sense of some cozy togetherness, but in
the same sense Auden intended when
he explained why he was leaving New
York to return to Oxford. The
weakening began, someone said to me
facetiously, when nearby women’s
colleges liberalized their rules and thus
started a mass exodus from fraternity
houses to apartments, so that now on
some weekends there are not enough
students at Red Square to play a game
of chess. I don’t completely deplore this
development, for unquestionably it has
allowed students a broader freedom of
choice and encouraged a wider diversity
of life. But together with other forces—
the immeasurable effects, for example,
of an enlarged faculty and student body,
an expanded curriculum, the absence of
Saturday classes, and the pervasive idea
of doing one’s thing—it has helped to
fragment the student body and to erode
the sense of unity.

This, among other reasons, is why
the new library is of vital importance to
us, and why many of us have the highest
hopes for it. With its central location it
can be the focal point of campus life,

 

 

21

 

Lewis

university without any further
substantial help from the alumni.

However, this is very far from being
the truth. If the University does not
start receiving substantial commitments
from those who did not participate in
Phase I, and even from those who did as
well, then, we are going to be in real
trouble beginning in the ’80s.

Very frankly, this leads me into the
most important reason why it is so
urgent that each and every alumnus of
Washington and Lee commit to the
financial support of the University in a
meaningful way. I believe that, as an
alumnus of our particular University, we
have a very special responsibility—and
only one that we, and others from a
small group of independent colleges,
can understand.

Today, we all see the dangers on the
American scene of big labor, big
business, big media, and big

government. Unfortunately, we have
also begun to see big education. Bigness
in education is certainly no less an evil
than other bigness in our society.
However, bigness in education involves
elements which are too crucial for us to
overlook. The elements are the next
generation and that of the dissemination of
knowledge.

We here, as Washington and Lee
alumni, are the inheritors of the
dwindling field of the only alternative to
uniform, govermentalized, flat-footed,
big-time education. We are among that
small group of people who can still
prevent the disaster of all education
falling into the hands of the politically
appointed boards, government-
mentality grantors of funds,
compromisers (as they must) of
principles which are unpopular.
Mediocrity is the only outcome we can
expect if we allow politically supported
education to become the only kind of
education available to future
generations. What will be the alternative

to government fiat if we fail to keep
alive the few top quality, independent
institutions which still remain in the
U.S.A.? Who can possibly do it but
Washington and Lee alumni and the
alumni of other independent institutions
such as Yale, Davidson, Princeton,
Williams, or you name them? There are
not too many of us, however. How else
can one of us leave a better thumb print
on this old world than one which will
keep individuality and real freedom
alive?

Maybe it’s a last gasp—I hope not.

In any event, someone kept that alive
for us. To let it die for those who follow
us would really be a disgrace. I sincerely
hope that none of us will ever forget the
importance of independent education
such as we offer at Washington and Lee
and which we all experienced there. If
we fulfill our responsibilities to W&L to
keep it strong so it can provide a
meaningful education to those who
follow us, we will really be doing what is,
in fact, a great service to our country.

 

 

 

Coulling

and if used to full advantage it can
become the unifying force of the
University. Meanwhile the individual
faculty member can do what he can, by
working closely with his students, to
revitalize the concept of a university as a
community of scholars bound together
in the common pursuit of knowledge
and truth.

The community of learning extends
beyond the University, however, and
this is why a professor has responsibility
toward a third group—the worldwide
body of scholars to which he belongs.
Everyone knows that for years the
consuming desire for recognition by this
body led to flagrant neglect of students
and contributed to their protests of the
60s, and some of you may recall that
when he was honored on his retirement
from Harvard one of the most
celebrated of absentee professors, John
Kenneth Galbraith, was congratulated
by a senior for at last appearing on
campus. But the pendulum has swung
in the opposite direction, and the
danger now is that it will swing too far.
It is a danger, first of all, to the students
themselves. They can lose as much as
they gain from a faculty member’s
undivided attention. They need the test
of independent work in order to

develop their own talents, formulate
their own ideas, discover their own
resources. And most of all they need to
learn that the function of a university is
not to make itself relevant to them, but
to help them become relevant to the
world at large. I don’t see why I should
hesitate to say in the presence of Mr.
and Mrs. Lewis what I’ve already said
behind their backs—that even for
undergraduates there is potential of the
greatest significance in Lewis Hall,
which can bring to campus students of
law from across the nation, visibly
linking Washington and Lee with other
centers of learning and serving as a
reminder of the University’s obligation
to scholarship and research.

A second and greater danger in the
notion that a professor has only to teach
is to the professor himself. He needs the
additional challenge of research and the
discipline it entails. In the classroom he
is almost never accountable to his peers,
but when he delivers a paper at a
professional meeting or publishes an
article in a scholarly journal he
addresses those who are capable of
judging him. He needs time for study,
for reflection, for taking a fresh look at
his subject. He needs the stimulus to the
same growth and development he
expects of his students, for without it he
will atrophy as surely as the mother who

never leaves the nursery or the
housewife who is forever in the kitchen.
‘And he especially needs relief from
teaching responsibilities, at regular
intervals and for considerable periods of
time. I’m now on leave of absence,
investigating an area that is of interest to
perhaps no more than half a dozen
people in the world—nineteenth-century
British autobiography. It may lead to
nothing, and I can’t say that it will make
me a better teacher. But I think it’s good
for me to be on leave, and good for my
students; they’re never the last to get the
point. Seeing me go daily to my office,
not to prepare for classes but to engage
in my harmless and esoteric study, they
gain a new sense of Washington and
Lee’s commitment to the pursuit of
knowledge.

The University has a bright future. It
is in good hands, with a generous and
dedicated Board of Trustees, an able
administration, and a faculty devoted to
their students. But if we are to make
that future a reality we will need your
help. I say this not as a fund-raiser, but
as a member of the faculty asking for
help in ways that are equally
important—sending us your best
students and supporting our efforts to
strenghten Washington and Lee as a
community of scholars and a center of
learning of which we can all be proud.

 

22

Frank Brooks, ’46, in attendance.
Results of the May election were
announced and the new chapter officers
are: John A. Wolf, ’69, ’72L, president;
James Dawson, ’68, ’71L, vice president;
William Reinhoff, ’74, secretary; and
Joseph C. Wick, 69, treasurer. Events
scheduled for the future include an
alumni reception at the Peale Gallery in
October or November.

Chapter news

WASHINGTON. _ A joint cocktail party
was held with Hollins alumnae on May
18 at Washington’s unique Botanic
Gardens. Music was provided by Looney
Toones, Inc., a mobile music company
owned and operated by Gilbert S. Meem
Jr., "72. Enthusiastic partygoers from
both schools enjoyed the occasion and J.
A. Meriwether, ’70, president of the
W&L chapter, announced that plans for
future joint meetings are being
considered.

SAN FRANCISCO. Alumni and wives
from the Bay area gathered for lunch at
the Fournous Ovens restaurant at the
Stanford Court Hotel on July 8. The
principal guests for the occasion were

CHICAGO. President Robert E. R.
Huntley was the guest of honor at a
reception and dinner held June 14 at
the Chicago Bar Association Building.
Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’65L, president
of the chapter, introduced other
University representatives there,
including: Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, director
of development; Adrian Williamson Jr.,
50, a development staff associate; Ken
Ruscio, ’76, assistant admissions
director; and Bill Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary. President Huntley’s report on
the University was enthusiastically
received. Walton announced plans for a
chapter directory and future chapter
activities. Special emphasis was placed
on the need for alumni volunteers in the
area of student recruitment.

ATLANTA—Cabell Heywood, ’58; Michael Mas-
inter, 58; John Hollister, ’58.

ATLANTA. A very large and fun-
loving group of alumni, wives and dates
met for cocktails and a buffet at the
home of Nathan V. (Pete) Hendricks,
65, *69L, on June 15. The highlight of
the occasion was the presentation by the
chapter of an engraved silver cup to
Thomas B. Branch III, ’58. He was
honored for his exceptional leadership,
both in chapter and W&L affairs.
Branch is retiring this year as president
of the Alumni Association. The
presentation was made by the chapter’s
president, Philip C. Thompson, ’68,
’°71L. Additional remarks were made by
Farris Hotchkiss, 58, on behalf of
President Huntley, who was unable to be
present. Bill Washburn, ’40, expressed
thanks on behalf of the entire chapter to
Pete and Kathy Hendricks for their
hospitality.

ATLANTA—Farvis Hotchkiss, ’58, (right) con-
gratulates Thomas B. Branch, ’58, on his leadership
award.

BALTIMORE. The home of Mr. and
Mrs. Henry LeBrun, ’58, was the setting
for a chapter cocktail party and very
short business meeting on June 18. A
number of alumni and wives enjoyed
the usual Baltimore good-time spirit and
were honored to have Trustee and Mrs.

CHICAGO—Gerard E. Grashorn, ’30; Robert C.
Dyer, ’34; William H. Hillier, ’38.

 

 

Scott Franklin, ’77, and his brother
David, ’78, a rising senior at W&L. The
two delivered excellent reports on the
University, the Honor System, social life,
and athletics. In a brief business session,
Richard L. (Dick) Kuersteiner, 61, was
elected president. Outgoing president
Emmett McCorkle Jr., ’26, used the
occasion to inform the chapter of the
recently-established Philip Sprouse, ’26,
Memorial Fund. Jerry South, ’54,
treasurer of the Alumni Board of
Directors, attended and extended
greetings to the chapter from the
Alumni Board. The arrangements

were made by Michael Jarboe, ’75.

 

EO

ATLANTA—Francis G. Jones III, 67; Stuart
Finestone, 67; J. D. Humphmes III, ’66, ’69L.

CHICAGO—Stanley A. Walton III, ’62, ’65L, talks
with Joseph L. Topinka, ’63, and his wife.

 

CHICAGO—Mark M. Heatwole, ’69, ’71L, and
wife talks with Pleas Geyer, ’73, and wife.

23

 

Class notes

 

 

Why not a WSL rocker too?

Pa ow Re rere ee: aha ee
ei De ae

y ft

 

 

 

 

 

The

Washington and Lee
Chair

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$75.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$60.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:

Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and_ telephone
number.

 

 

24

1923

Andrew H. Harris Jr. has remained active since
retiring from the Seaboard Coast Line Railroad
as an assistant to the chief engineer for
communications and signaling. Recently he
took a volunteer part-time job as coordinator
for the energy council in New Hanover County,
N. C. Before that, he was coordinator of civil
preparedness from 1968 to 1976 for the county
and the cities of Wilmington, Caroline Beach,
Kure Beach, and Wrightsville Beach. He is also
a retired Army colonel.

1930 ©
Marion H. Roberts Jr. retired July 1, 1975,

from the Alabama Dry Dock and Shipbuilding
Co.

1932

District Judge Charles E. Long Jr. of Dallas,
Texas, who has been on the bench longer than
any other full-time judge at the Dallas County
Courthouse, retired June 30, 1977. He has
served in the 134th District Court since 1953,
when he was appointed by Gov. Allan Shivers.
Long served as an assistant city attorney for
Dallas from 1938-42; as a naval officer during
World War II; as counsel to the U. S. House
Judiciary Committee in 1946 and as the civil
district attorney for Dallas County in 1947.
From 1948-53, he was in private practice with
the law firm of Touchstone, Long & Bernays.
Long is a past president of SMU law alumni and
the Dallas Lions Club. He is an elder in the First
Presbyterian Church and a trustee of the First
Presbyterian Foundation.

1933

Howell Arthur Lamar, flag lieutenant to Fleet
Admiral Chester Nimitz between 1941-1945,
has published a book entitled J Saw Stars. The
book is a collection of memories by Lamar of
Nimitz and is published by the Admiral Nimitz
Foundation of Fredericksburg, Texas.

1934

Arthur Tonsmeire Jr., an executive with First
Southern Federal Savings and _ Loan
Association of Mobile, Ala., was instrumental in
the restoration and improvement of an area
called Fort Conde’ Plaza. When planning began
for a tunnel under the Mobile River, an
archaeological investigation discovered some
remnants of the original Fort Conde’. The city
rebuilt the fort over the tunnel’s entrance. Also
within the 14-acre area were several old houses
which needed restoration. Tonsmeire and First
Southern worked to insure that the property
would be purchased by owners interested in

 

W. H. Edwards, ’39

restoration. The houses now contain shops and
other commercial ventures and make up the
core of the plaza.

1938

Dr. Floyd R. Mays Jr. has retired from private
medical practice and lives in Big Spring, Texas.
Mays is an enthusiastic scuba diver in Guaymas,
Mexico.

Robert Edward Surles, a practicing attorney in
Summerville, Ga., took a trip through Mexico
studying the Mayan and Aztec civilizations.

1939

Warren H. Edwards, attorney for Holmes
County, Fla., school board and past-president
of the Kiwanis Club of Orlando, has been
elected a trustee of Kiwanis International
during the annual convention of the
organization in Dallas, Texas. The Kiwanis
International Board of Trustees represents the
organization of 7000 clubs in 61 countries.

Edwards served as governor of the Florida.

Kiwanis District, and as both member and
chairman of a number of district committees.
He is a life fellow of the Kiwanis International
Foundation. Edwards is a member of the
American Bar and the Florida Bar Association.
He is president of the Orange County Bar
Association; County Solicitor of Orange
County; and judge of the County Court of
Record. He is active in a number of city and
state organizations and a director of the Visiting
Nurses Association of Orlando and the Florida
Central Academy. Edwards and his wife have
two daughters.

John L. Hawkins II is executive secretary of the
Professional Wrecker Operations of Florida.
He is also executive vice president of David L.
Hunter Construction Co. of Gainesville, Fla.

1940

Edwin J. Foltz, vice president for corporate
relations for Campbell Soup Co. and president
of the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association, has been elected president of the
Citizens Crime Commission for the city of
Philadelphia. His election took place at the
annual meeting on June 2 at the Philadelphia
Sheraton Hotel. Foltz has been a member of the
Crime Commission since 1972 and was elected
to the board of directors in 1974. A former FBI
agent and administrator, he has experience in
the criminal justice field. Foltz is a member of
the president’s council of the American
Management Association; and a vice chairman,
World Affairs Council of Philadelphia; and a
member of the Philadelphia Committee on
Foreign Relations. He serves on the executive

committee of the South Jersey Chamber of
Commerce and is the recipient of several
community service awards and citations.

Robert C. Walker, president of the United
Virginia Bank of Williamsburg is also vice

mayor.

1943

James C. Walker celebrated his 30th wedding
anniversary in May, 1977. He and his wife have
two sons and one grandson. He is owner and
president of Outdoor Equipment Co. of
Maryland Heights, Mo.; director of United
Missouri Bank and the Chamar Investment
Co.; and president of Turf Equipment
Distributors Association.

1945

Benjamin M. Kaplan, is in the private practice
of cardiology with the Clinical Cardiology
Group, Ltd., in Chicago. Prior to entering
private practice he served as chief of the section
of cardiology at the Veterans Administration
Hospital in Hines, IIl., between 1953 and 1957.
Kaplan is an_ associate professor at
Northwestern University Medical School and
an attending physician at Northwestern
Memorial Hospital. He and his wife, Miriam,
have a son and a daughter. Kaplan enjoys golf
and tennis and writes often for medical
journals.

1946

After 25 years as a hospital administrator,
Frederick C. Sage has joined the department of
Health, Education and Welfare, serving as an
administrator in the Medicaid program. ~

Harry W. Wellford is U. S. District Judge for
the western district of Tennessee. He is also
chairman of the ‘Tennessee Historical
Commission and a member of the Tennessee
American Revolution Bicentennial Commis-
sion.

1950

Philip M. Lanier, senior vice president-law for
Seaboard Coast Line Industries, has recently
been named executive vice _ president-
administration. Lanier was appointed attorney
for the Louisville and Nashville Railroad in
1955. He was elected vice president-law for
L&N in 1968 and in 1973 became senior vice
president-law for Seaboard Coast Line
Industries. Seaboard Coast Line Industries is
the holding company for the Family Lines
System which is made up. of various railroads
including the Seaboard Coast Line, the
Louisville & Nashville, Georgia, Clinchfield and

West Point Route. Lanier is also president of the
Louisville Philharmonic Society.

1951

Capt. Joel H. Berry, U.S.N., is commander of
Destroyer Squadron 15, homeported in
Yokosuka, Japan. His command consists of
1,300 officers and men and is composed of two
destroyers and three fleet frigates. He and his

wife and three sons reside in base quarters at

Yokosuka.

1952

Capt. Robert F. Connally is the commanding
officer of the Navy recruiting district in
Houston, Texas.

1954
Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Van Cott, a
daughter, Marianna Morrill, on Dec. 15, 1976.
She joins four older brothers and the family
lives in Goldenrod, Fla.

Roy T. Matthews, a professor at Michigan State
University, has been selected to serve on the
school’s long range planning council.

Charles R. Thomas Jr. is with the Virginia State
Health Department as administrator of the
Crater Health District, a five county and three
city health district south of Richmond.

1956
Birth: Mr. and Mrs. E. Duncan McCarthy, a
daughter, Dudley Noel, on June 3, 1977. The
McCarthys have four daughters and two sons.
McCarthy is special assistant for administration
at the headquarters of the chief of naval
Reserve in New Orleans.

Dr. Oscar H. L. Bing, has been promoted to
associate professor of medicine at Harvard
Medical School. He is board certified in internal
medicine and cardiology, holds a research
career development award from N.I.H. and has
published approximately 100 papers and
abstracts in the field of cardiac muscle
mechanics and _ physiology. He _ recently
published a clinical EKG guide for practical use
by student nurses and practitioners.

1957

Robert G. Bannon has been appointed vice
president and state counsel of Commonwealth
Land Title Insurance Co. Bannon, who will
manage the new Commonwealth branch office
in Hartford, Conn., has been in the land title
insurance field since 1964. He is active in the
New England Land Title Association and the
Connecticut Board of Title Underwriters,
having served as_ president of both

25

organizations. He is also a member of the
executive committee of the real property
section of the Connecticut Bar Association.

1958

J. William Reid, senior vice president of First &
Merchants National Bank in Richmond, has
been elected to a two-year term on the board of
directors of the Virginia Bankers Association.
He was recently elected to the board of
directors of the Virginia College Fund. Reid
joined First & Merchants in 1961. He became
assistant cashier in 1965, assistant vice president
in 1967, vice president in 1970 and senior vice
president in 1973.

William A. Towler III has been elected
president and chief operating officer of
American-First Title and Trust Co. of
Oklahoma City, Okla.

Dr. Watson G. Watring has been appointed
director of gynecologic oncology of the New
England Medical Center Hospital. He is also an
associate professor of obstetrics and gynecology
at the Tufts University School of Medicine. He
held similar positions at the University of
California’s Los Angeles Medical Center.
Watring has been a consultant at the City of
Hope National Medical Center in Duarte,
Calif., Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los
Angeles, and the San Diego Naval Hospital. He
was elected by the American Cancer Society as
the three-year recipient of the Junior Faculty
Clinical Fellowship. Watring is a fellow in the
American College of Obstetricians and
Gynecologists and a diplomate of the American
Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology. He and
his wife, the former Ann Densmore, have five
children.

1959

John C. Fay Jr., after passing the Alabama State
Bar in February, 1977, is now with Central
Foundry in Tuscaloosa, Ala., as president and
chief executive officer. He and his wife, Mary,
have three daughters and the family resides just
outside Birmingham in Sterrett.

Dr. John C. Kotz, visiting scientist at the
Department of Chemistry at the University of
North Carolina, Chapel Hill, spent a few days
visiting the chemistry department at
Washington and Lee in April.

William H. Pixton is director of freshmen
composition at Oklahoma State University. He
was formerly coordinator of freshmen and
sophomore English at Troy State University.

Boardman Stewart is a partner in Equitable
Securities in Nashville, Tenn. He is also

26

Calhoun Bond, ’43 (left), fire com-
missioner of Baltimore City, and Bull
Pacy, ’50, liquor commissioner of Balti-
more County, represent WSL at Cotton
Patch Beach, Del., where both have
cottages.

president of the Nashville Society of Financial
Analysts and president-elect of the Heritage
Foundation of Franklin and Williamson Co. He
and his wife, Lillian, have three children.

1960
Marnage: D. Allen Penick Jr. and Rheta Karen
Dean on July 9 in Lexington, Va. Paul M.
Penick, 63, brother of the groom, was best man.
The couple will live in Reno, Nev.

Birth: Maj. and Mrs. Edward A. Corcoran, a
son, Brian Edward, on Dec. 28, 1976. The
young man joins three sisters. The family lives
in Salinas, Calif., where Corcoran is currently
assigned to the U. S. Army headquarters
command, sixth ordnance company. In May,
1977, Corcoran was awarded a Ph. D. degree
from Columbia University.

Robert L. Elder and his wife, Sarah, are
professional journalists who have worked in
Miami, Atlanta and Nashville. Currently, they
are doing post-graduate work at Stanford
University on a National Endowment for the
Humanities grant. As a reporter in Nashville
for the Banner and the Tennessean, Elder
received several awards for his stories on
housing, unemployment and other urban
problems. Sarah has worked for the Atlanta
Constitution.

H. Tudor Hall has been transferred to the
Sacramento, Calif., office of Cessna Finance
Corp. This is the lending subsidiary of Cessna
Aircraft Corp. Hall holds the position of
western manager.

John Ashby Morton is an assistant professor of
history at Benedict College in Columbia, S.C.

Louis H. Burford is a member of Headquarters
Camp #584 of the Sons of Confederate
Veterans.

Charles W. Day heads the firm of Shehan, Day
& Associates, Inc., an actuarial consulting firm
in Pittsburgh, Pa. In February, 1976, he was
enrolled by the joint board of the Department
of Labor and the Department of the Treasury

for the enrollment of actuaries to perform

services under the Employment Retirement Act
of 1974.

Edson B. Olds, formerly with the Peoples Drug
Co. in Washington, D. C., is now vice president
of The National Bank of Washington. He works
with the trust and operations center. He and his
wife, Carol, have three children and the family
lives in Rockville, Md.

 

1962
Birth: Dr. and Mrs. John Ollie Edmunds Jr., a
daughter, Caroline Murphy, on May 16, 1977.
Edmunds recently joined the faculty of Tulane
Medical School as an assistant professor of
orthopedic surgery. He and his wife have three
children and they live in New Orleans.

Alan M. Corwin is an account executive with
Dean Witter & Co, Inc., with offices in Portland,
Ore.

Dr. Joseph L. Goldstein, head of the Division of
Medical Genetics at the University of Texas
Southwestern Medical School in Dallas, has
been selected as a co-holder of the Paul J.
Thomas Chair of Medicine. Goldstein was one
of two scientists who discovered a fundamental
chemical pathway by which the body controls
the production of cholesterol. The chair was
created through a donation to the medical
school by Mr. and Mrs. J. Erik Jonsson.
Goldstein has been widely recognized for his
work in discovering a genetic defect which
causes high blood fat. For that research, he
received the Heinrich Weiland Prize three
years ago in Germany and the American
Chemical Society's Pfizer Award in Enzyme
Chemistry in 1976.

Dr. Kenneth B. Jones Jr. who practices general
and pediatric surgery in Shreveport, La.,
became a Fellow of the American College of
Surgeons in October, 1976. He is also clinical
assistant professor of surgery and chief of
pediatric surgery at L.S.U. School of Medicine.

Major Wesley R. Ostergren is assigned with the
U. S. Army in Antwerp Province, Belgium, as
Commander, M R LOGAEUR BENELUX. He
and his wife, Margaret, have two sons.

1963
Birth: Mr. and Mrs. John E. Tipton, a daughter,
Mary Bowman, on May 8, 1977. The Tiptons
also have a son and the family lives in Webster
Groves, Mo.

Daniel R. (Randy) Cole is a partner in the
Washington, D.C., law firm of Krooth &
Altman which specializes in commercial,
corporate and real estate practice. Between
1970 and 1973 he was an attorney with the
Office of General Counsel of the Department
of Housing and Urban Development. He then
served three years as director of HUD’s housing
production and mortgage credit division.

G. McNeir Tilman has been elected an officer
by the directors of the National Bank and Trust
Co. of Charlottesville, Va. Tilman has been
assigned special responsibility for supervision
of the bank’s new ready reserve account service.

 

 

From 1965 until joining the bank, he was
president of Tilman’s Inc., a family owned
department store in downtown Charlottesville,
and a founder of Trula’s of Charlottesville.
Tilman is a former director of First Virginia
Bank, the Retail Merchants Association, the
Virginia Retail Merchants Association,
Downtown Charlottesville, Inc., Charlottesville
Parking Center, Inc., the Chamber of
Commerce, Town Hall Levy Opera House
Foundation, the United Way and the Heart
Fund. He was married in 1964 to the former
Nancy Kingery of Roanoke. The couple has two
daughters.

1964

Stanley Fink, a member of the Board of
Trustees of Temple Beth O’r for six years, has
been elected president of the congregation of
Temple Beth O’r in Clark, N.J. He is a
practicing attorney and is a past president of the
Clark Jaycees, the Linden Bar Association, and
the Board of Trustees of the Union County
Legal Services Corp. Fink is vice president of
the northern New Jersey region of the United
Synagogue of America and a member of the
Board of Governors of the Solomon Schechter
Day School of Union and Essex Counties.

Dr. Peter S. Trager has opened an office in
Marietta, Ga., for the general practice of
dentistry.

Stuart J. Yoffe is a pediatrician in Houston,
Texas. He expects to have a book published
soon entitled, How to Ratse a Perfect Child.

Robert G. Bannon (See 1957.)

1965

Adam J. Fielder is now practicing obstetrics and
gynecology in Richmond, Va. He previously
served as chief resident of obstetrics and
gynecology at Johns Hopkins Hospital in
Baltimore. He is the author of several published
articles.

Dr. L. Shannon Jung, assistant professor of
religion and sociology, has been named the first
recipient of the Outstanding Faculty Award at
Virginia Intermont College. Jung holds
degrees from Union Theological Seminary,
Yale University Divinity School, and has a Ph.
D. from Vanderbilt University. Jung is also an
ordained minister with the Presbyterian
Church.

Woodward D. Openo is a volunteer in
architectural restoration at Strawberg Banke, a
historic preservation organization = in
Portsmouth, N.H. The restoration program
district includes some 30 buildings and the
program is a long term project.

William L. Putnam has been appointed
personnel administration manager of the
headquarters offices of Celanese Corp. in New
York City. He had been personnel manager at
the Greer, S.C., plant of Celanese Plastics Co.
Putnam joined Celanese in 1973 as a personnel
supervisor at the Greer plant, and became
industrial relations manager in 1974. He had
previously held personnel positions with Allied
Chemical Corp., Morristown, N.J., and Hertz
Corp., New York City. He and his wife and
daughter live in Convent Station, N.J.

Walter H. Ryland is assistant attorney general
for Virginia and head of the public education
section. He and his wife, Madelaine, live in
Richmond.

Robert G. Thomas, former assistant counsel for
the New York State Banking Department, has
become a member of the New York City law
firm of Yamada, Condemi, Thomas & Dean.

1966
Birth: Dr. and Mrs. M. Neely Young II, a son,
Joshua Neely, in March, 1977. Young is a
professor in the history department at Pace
Academy in Atlanta, Ga.

Since 1974 F. Ronald Laupheimer has been an
attorney in the legal department of the Pacific
Gas & Electric Co. He previously had served
one year as a clerk for Judge Ira Brown of the
San Francisco Superior Court.

John C. Moore has joined with classmate
Thomas F. Coates III and others to form the
Richmond, Va., law firm of Coates, Comess,
Settle, Moore & Taylor.

John A. B. Palmer has been promoted to the
newly created position of director of financial
accounting and reporting in the corporate
controller department of Springs Mills, Inc., of
Fort Mill, S.C. Palmer joined Springs in
December, 1975, after working with the
international accounting firm of Arthur
Andersen & Co. in Greensboro, N.C. He holds
a master’s degree in business from Emory
University in Atlanta. Palmer is a Certified
Public Accountant and a member of the
American Institute of CPAs. He will have
responsibility for both internal and external
financial reporting. He and his wife, Marty,
have two children and the family lives in
Lancaster, S.C.

1967
Birth: Mr. and Mrs. B. Michael Herman, a
daughter, Marshall Michelle, on April 14, 1977.
Herman is general counsel for Blue Cross of
Southwestern Virginia with offices in Roanoke.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. James W. Oram Jr., a
second son, Brook Ballinger, on April 19, 1977.
Oram is with IBM Corporation with offices in
Philadelphia.

Samuel P. McChesney III is president of
McChesney Development Co. in Lake Quivira,
Kans., a firm specializing in multi-housing
development projects. Recently, a “ground
breaking” ceremony was held for Parkview
Gardens, which McChesney is developing. The
housing complex is for the elderly and the
handicapped.

Dr. John R. McGill is completing residency
training in plastics and reconstruction surgery
at the Medical University of South Carolina. In
July he began a one year fellowship in hand
surgery at Rush Presbyterian St. Luke’s Medical
Center in Chicago.

Walter H. Ryland (See 1965.)

Marriage: Frederick Arthur Meiser Jr. and
Carol Ann Minnich on June 10, 1977, in San
Diego, Calif.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Robert J. Frost Jr., a son,
Robert J. III, on June 2, 1977. He joins two
sisters, Virginia Anne and Katherine Elizabeth.
The family lives in Silver Spring, Md.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Frank G. Harmon III, a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on May 20, 1977.
Harmon and his wife, Melinda, are practicing
attorneys in Houston, Texas.

James Moore Boyd received a J.D. degree from
Hastings in 1974 and an L.L.M. (tax) degree
from New York University in 1976. He is now
associated with the Wall Street firm of Curtis,
Mallet-Prevost, Colt & Mosle.

Joel S. Kline is practicing law in Rockville, Md.
His wife, Betsy, manages a travel agency in
Potomac.

John R. Reynolds is a partner in the law firm of
Jackson, Tanner and Reynolds in Nashville,
Tenn. He and his wife, Janis, have a daughter,
Virginia Elizabeth. The Reynolds recently
remodeled a 90-year-old building and received
a certificate of merit for significant
contributions to the preservation of
Tennessee’s historical heritage from _ the
Tennessee Historical Commission.

John D. Roberts, former Assistant U. S.
Attorney in Anchorage, has become Alaska’s
first full-time United States Magistrate. The
ceremony was held June 3, 1977, and included
the presence of all federal judges of the United

27

 

W. C. Tyler, ’69

States District Court of Alaska. Chief Judge von
der Heydt presided at the event. The new
fulltime position was recently authorized across
the country by the administrative office of the
U.S. Courts. The new magistrate is expected to
help with increasing case loads and can be
delegated an expanded range of new pre-trial
duties as authorized by the Federal Magistrate’s
Act. Roberts had been U. S. Attorney in
Anchorage since 1974. Previously he had been
with the U. S. Attorney’s office in Jacksonville,
Fla.

Charles B. Tomm, a practicing attorney with
the Wall Street firm of Winthrop, Stimson,
Putnam & Roberts, participated in the
Washington and Lee Applied Ethics Program
in March 1977. He led the discussion and
presented materials on the topic entitled
“Issues in Representing Multinational
Corporations.” His wife, Sallie, is working on a
master’s degree in occupational therapy at
Columbia University’s College of Physicians
and Surgeons.

1969

Marriage: Robert E. Price and Mahala Jane
Simms on May 21, 1977, in Houston, Texas.
The Rev. Julian W. Walthall, ’60, performed
the ceremony. The couple will live in Houston
where Price is an attorney with the firm of
Lockett & Embry.

Joseph E. Bates is general manager, West, of
Iddings Paint Co. with offices in Los Angeles,
Calif.

W. William Melnyk, formerly with Deering-
Milliken, is now a realtor with the Still Agency in
Spartanburg, S.C., specializing in residential
and commercial real estate.

Philip W. Norwood is practicing with the
Birmingham, Ala., law firm of Johnson, North,
Haskell & Slaughter. He and his wife have a
daughter, Elizabeth Pritchard.

William A. Timmerman is in Paris, France,
where he is in charge of credit and marketing at
the Paris branch of the Chase Manhatten Bank.
Timmerman was promoted to the position of
vice president in September, 1976. His wife, son
and daughter live with him in Paris.

William C. Tyler has joined Coldwell Banker
Management Corp. as a real estate finance
officer responsible for handling Atlanta-area
financing activities. Prior to joining the firm,
Tyler was an assistant vice president in the
commercial mortgage banking division of
Citizens and Southern Financial Corp., Atlanta.
Coldwell Banker Management Corp. is the
financial __ services, development, and
investment management subsidiary of Coldwell

28

Banker (NYSE/PSE), a real estate and real
estate-related firm operating throughout the
United States.

Jeffrey Wexler is editor and publisher of The
Beacon, and continues in the same capacities
with the South Shore Record. Both are Long
Island newspapers. Having a penchant for
politics and civic activities, Wexler is also a
district representative for Congressman John
Wydler; public affairs commissioner for the
village of Cedarhurst; a director of the Five
Towns Community Council; and a director of
the local chamber of commerce and historical
groups.

Thomas F. Coates III (See 1966.)

1970

Marnage: Steven F. Unti and Jane Foster Berry
on June 4, 1977, in Union, S.C. Unti is an
attorney with the Atlanta firm of Mitchell,
Clarke, Pate & Anderson. He _ recently
published an article “Dollars from Defunct
Pension Plans are Searching for a Home” in the
April issue of Savings and Loan News.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Martin B. Turpin, a son,
Justin Tyler, on March 6, 1977. The family lives
in Richmond, Va.

Jeffrey B. Grossman is administrative manager
of the western division of Calvert Distillers. He
works out of Santa Monica, Calif.

Steven T. Mahaffey works for Ashland Oil
Company. He has been named _ regional
manager for reviewing the activities of state and
local governments in the Upper Midwest
including Minnesota, Wisconsin, Illinois and
North and South Dakota. Mahaffey expects to
reside in St. Paul, Minn.

1971
Marnage: Claude M. Walker Jr. and Joann H.
Cason on May 7, 1977, in Atlanta, Ga. Among
the wedding party were classmates Arthur
Cleveland, Jack Cartwright, Bill Kahn, Tom
Daniel and Rick Murray. Also attending were
Hagood Ellison ’72, Rob Walker ’72, Joe Walker
"76, and Claude M. Walker ’41. The groom
received his M.B.A. from the University of
South Carolina in 1974 and is associated with
the Standard Warehouse Co. in Columbia, S. C.

Harold H. Catlin, after receiving an M.B.A.
from the University of North Florida, attended
Walter F. George School of Law at Mercer
University and received a J.D. degree in 1976.
He is now associated with the law firm of Marks,
Gray, Conroy & Gibbs in Jacksonville.

John D. Copenhaver Jr. received a master’s

degree from Fuller Theological Seminary and
is now serving as United Methodist minister in
Boyce, Va.

Brad Wright, a real estate developer in
Houston, is serving in the Texas House of
Representatives. He and his wife, Lois, have a

daughter.

Marriage: Robert G. (Bo) Brookby and Kathy
Ross on June 11, 1977, in Saratoga, Calif. The
couple will live in Darien, Conn.

Marriage: Robert A. White and Theresa Diane
Dalton on June 24, 1977, in Albany, Ga. After
leaving the U. S. Marine Corps where he was a
JAG captain, White is now practicing law in
Gainesville, Fla.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Terry W. Tyler, a daughter,
Courtney Elizabeth, on Jan. 24, 1977. She joins
two older brothers: Welby, 2'4, and Lee, 1.
The family lives in Louisville, Ky.

James W. M. Carson isa financial analyst for the
Trust Co. of Georgia in Atlanta.

David F. Guthrie is practicing law in El Dorado,
Ark. He and his wife, the former Mary Gladey,
have one son.

Gilbert S. Meem Jr., formerly with Reynolds
Securities Inc., is now account executive with E.
F. Hutton and Co. with offices in Washington,
D.C. Meem is also owner and operator of a
chain of “traveling discos” under the name of
Looney Toones, Inc. The chain of music
entertainers operate in the New York and
Washington areas.

Roger A. Pond has joined First & Merchants
National Bank in Newport News, Va., as vice
president and trust officer.

Maj. Paul A. Robblee Jr. is stationed at West
Point Academy where he is an instructor. He
and his wife, Joanne, have two children.

Lloyd S. Wolf, after receiving an M.B.A. and a
J.D. degree from S.M.U. in 1976, is now
president of the Coastal Cookie Co. in Florida.

1973

Marriage: Scott Rickoff and Faye Steigman on
June 26, 1976. Attending the wedding were
classmates Dave Kantor, Larry Levenson, John
Margolis and Bob Silverman. Also among the
guests were Art Furhman, 772, and Kenny
Murov, ’72. Rickoff, a graduate of the Ohio
College of Podiatric Medicine is doing his
residency at Kern Hospital in foot and leg
surgery and now resides in Warren Ohio.

The Spirit of ’76 prevailed at the
wedding of Michael Eric Wagoner, ’76,
center with his bride, Miss Mary Tiss- (a
erand. His attendants (from left) were |
Steward Barroll, Steve Strawsburg, Neil
Johnson, and Lecky Stone, all of the

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Thorton Hardie III, a
daughter, Sarah Marie, on June 5, 1977.
Hardie is an attorney with the Dallas firm of
Thompson, Knight, Simmons & Bullion.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Douglas W. MacDougal, a
daughter, Emily Susan, on March 25, 1977. She
has an older brother, Colin Douglas, and the
family lives in Honolulu.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Richard H. Middleton Jr.,
a son, Christopher Townsend, on June 18,
1977. The family lives in Savannah, Ga.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Albert Preston III, a son,
Lathrop Lee, on March 13, 1977. The family
lives in Kansas City, Mo.

Birth: Mr. and Mrs. Philip J. Wasilausky, a son,
Adam Philip, on May 1, 1977. He joins an older
sister and the family lives in Baldwin, N.Y.

Pleas Geyer completed an internship in internal
medicine and is now a resident in psychiatry at
the University of Chicago.

C. Christopher Giragosian is assistant staff
counsel for the Bank of Virginia Company. He
received his J.D. degree from T. C. Williams
Law School in Richmond, Va.

Dr. J. Griffith Steel is in first year residency in
internal medicine at the U.S.A.F. Wilford Hall
Medical Center in San Antonio, Texas.

Sidney C. Roseberry, after two years in the
Peace Corps in Senegal and 15 months in
France and Zaire as projects officer for the
National Church of Zaire, is currently working
in Chad, Africa, for AID in the Food for Peace
Program. He expects to enter graduate school
at Texas Tech this fall.

John C. Moore (See 1966.)

1974
Birth: Mr. and Mrs. R. Glennwood Lookabill, a
daughter, Kimberly Jane, on April 8, 1977.
Lookabill maintains a private practice while
serving as assistant Commonwealth Attorney
for Pulaski County, Va. His wife, Jane, is a
guidance counselor in the county school.

Kent Masterson Brown, after working for a law
firm for three years, is now a partner in the firm
of Collins, Holladay & Brown in Lexington, Ky.
He won the Republican nomination for the
state legislature. The election will be this fall.

Lt. David V. Finnell is with the U. S. Army as
personnel officer at H Q 5th U. S. Army in Ft.
Sam Houston, Texas. He expects to complete
his masters degree in English at the University
of Texas at San Antonio this year.

Class of ’76.

Fred W. Frick is attending medical school at
Indiana University.

John F. Hanzel is corporate secretary and
general counsel for Virginia Iron, Coal and
Coke Co., Inc., of Roanoke, Va.

Peter H. Jones received his M.D. degree with
the highest honor from Baylor School of
Medicine at graduation exercises on June 1,
1977, in Houston Texas.

Joseph C. Leary III, who received an M.B.A.
from William and Mary in June, 1976, is
associated with Milliken & Co. in the marketing
department. He is territory manager for
Louisiana and Mississippi. He and his wife,
Margaretta, live in New Orleans.

John H. Tisdale has been promoted to the rank
of lieutenant commander in the U. S. Naval
Reserve.

B. Michael Herman (See 1967.)
Joel S. Kline (See 1968.)

1975
William E. (Top) Allaun III received his M.B.A.
in August from the College of William and
Mary. He’s working with Allaun Corp. in
Newport News and Gloucester, Va.

James Becker just received an M.A. in
psychology from Northwestern University and
expects to enter Johns Hopkins in September to
earn a Ph.D. in psychology.

T. Barry Davis and partner Jay Mangan,
representing Washington Dossier magazine,
recently took first place honors in Division II
tennis doubles during the Advertising Club of
Washington tournament at Indian Springs
Country Club. The pair also took first place
honors for the highest team point total in all
divisions.

Randy L. Flink has been busy since graduation.
In the summer of 1976 he interned with Monte
dei Paschi di Siena Bank in Siena, Italy, which
has been in continuous operation as a
commercial lending institution since 1472.
Returning to the states, he received his M.B.A.
degree from the University of Michigan in
April, 1977. This summer Flink interned with
the Philips Corp. in Eindhoven, The
Netherlands, as an analyst for the firm’s
Department of Foreign Economic Relations. In
September, Flink began work as a credit analyst
for the First National Bank in Dallas.

William E. Forland Jr. is materiel controller for
Boeing Aerospace Co. in Seattle, Wash.

 

Thad Grundy Jr. is an examiner for the
Chicago Title Insurance Co. in Houston,
Texas. He expects to enter law school in the fall.

Henry M. Houston is business manager and
assistant sales manager of the Mount Vernon
Dodge agency in Alexandria, Va.

Frank Slavin has entered the practice of law in
Wytheville, Va. He is associated with Virginia
State Senator Daniel W. Bird.

Wiliam L. Warren Jr. has just completed a year
of study at the European Baptist Theological
Seminary in Ruschlikon, Switzerland. In the fall
of 1977 he expects to attend the Southern
Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Ky.,
to complete his Masters of Divinity degree.

Jeffrey L. Willis, after passing the Arizona Bar,
is practicing in Phoenix with the firm of Streich,
Lang, Weeks, Cardon & French.

Robert Wyckoff Jr. is entering his third year of
law school at the University of Florida. He
expects to seek an M.B.A. after law school.

Charles B. Tomm (See 1968.)

1976

Marriage: Michael Eric Wagoner and Mary
Tisserand on July 23, 1977, in Evansville, Ind.
Groomsmen and attendants included Stewart
Barroll, °76, Steve Strawsburg, ’76, Neil
Johnson, ’76, and Lecky Stone, ’76.

Brad Bethel is attending medical school at
Guadalajara, Mexico.

After two semesters at Rutgers University,
William E. Birbick is now employed as a
mechanical engineer for Reynolds Metals Co. in
Richmond, Va.

Steven Settlage is working with the Richmond,
Va., law firm of Hirschler, Fleischer, Weinberg,
Cox & Allen.

Deborah Susman is deputy prosecuting
attorney for Kitsap County with offices in
Bremerton, Wash.

Peter A. J. Symolon has been promoted to
assistant head of circulation of the Mullen
Library at Catholic University. He has been
employed by the library since July, 1976.
Symolon entered the Columbus School of Law
at Catholic University in August, and will retain
his position in the library as he takes classes.

Richard T. Woulfe is associated with the Miami
law firm of Bradford, Williams, McKay,
Kimbrell, Hamann & Jennings, P.A.

29

SUPPORT THE GENERALS!
Buy a 1977-78 Season Ticket

Good for All Home Athletic Events

Admits Your Whole Family
Only $20.00

Use the coupon to order yours today.

1977

Marriage: Robert A. Ford and Kathryn S. Lotz
of St. Petersburg, Fla., on May 21, 1977. In the
wedding party were classmates S. F. Raymond
Smith and Benjamin M. Lowe. Guests included
classmates Doug Dewing and Richard Martin.
The couple will be in E] Paso until October, then
will move to Germany.

Howard Cobb Alexander’ has_ entered
Vanderbilt University’s Medical School. A
Robert E. Lee Research Scholar at Washington
and Lee, Alexander was also a tutor in the
Lexington elementary schools. He recently
obtained a private pilot’s license.

Camillus L. Avent is studying for a degree in
civil engineering at the Georgia Institute of
Technology.

Scott Thomas is news director for National ©

Public Radio affiliate WMRA in Harrisonburg,
Va.

 

In Memoriam

 

1916

William Bernard Sullivan, a longtime resident
of Brooklyn, N.Y., died June 2, 1977.

1919

Dr. T. Dewey Davis, who practiced medicine in
Richmond for more than 50 years, died July 6,
1977, while fishing in a pond near West Point,
Va. Davis entered W&L when he was 15 years
old and began studying medicine at the Medical
College of Virginia when he was 17. He opened
his practice in .achmond when he was 21 years
of age and retired from active practice in 1975.
He was also a professor of medicine at the
Medical College of Virginia. Davis was a
member of the Richmond Academy of
Medicine, the Virginia Medical Society, the
American Medical Association, and_ the
Southern Medical Society. He had also been a
fellow of the American College of Physicians, a
diplomate of the American Board of Internal
Medicine, a past president of the Medical
College of Virginia Alumni Association and an
elder in the First Presbyterian Church.

1921

Reginald Ford Trotter, a prominent
businessman of Monticello, Ark., died April 28,
1977. Trotter was a merchant with V. J. Trotter
& Sons, general merchandiser and cotton
buyer, one of Drew County’s most historical

30

Athletic Department

Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me........ family 1977-78 season ticket
to all home Washington and Lee athletic events
at $20.00. Check is enclosed.

 

Name

 

Adress

 

 

business operations. Trotter was a guiding
influence in the formation and establishment of
Union Bank and Trust Co. of Monticello and
served as a director. He was particularly
knowledgable in the field of investments.

1922
Garland Gray, former Virginia State Senator
from Waverly, Va., died July 9, 1977. Gray, a
banker, lumberman, and stalwart of the Byrd
Machine, became one of the Virginia General
Assembly’s most influential members. Gray
made his first bid for the state senate in 1942,
after serving as chairman of the State Ports
Authority for six years. At the time of his
retirement in 1971, he had represented his
district for 29 years. Gray was chairman of the
Senate Privileges and Elections Committee and
a member of six others. Gray was president of

 

JUDGE CARTER LAUDED

A memorial service for the Honorable
John DeWeese Carter, ’27L, was held in the
Court of Special Appeals of Maryland on
May 27. Judge Carter, a retired judge of that
court and former chief judge of the Second
Judicial Circuit on Maryland’s Eastern
Shore, died Feb. 25.

He worked tirelessly throughout his
career to improve the administration of
justice and to better the quality of life in his
home community of Denton in Caroline
County. The four speakers, whose remarks
were made a part of the court record,
lauded Judge Carter’s qualities on and off
the bench, citing particularly his ability
always to keep the human element in focus.
“There lay his real love,” a colleague said,
“and there lay his judicial forte, as well as his
personal forte—helping people.”

The speakers were H. Vernon Eney, a
prominent Baltimore attorney and former
president of the Maryland Bar Association;
the Honorable George B. Rasin Jr., a judge
on the circuit court; the Honorable James A.
Wise, ’32L, judge of the circuit court for
Caroline County; and the Honorable
Thomas H. Lowe, an associate judge on the
Court of Special Appeals.

~The Honorable Lewis F. Powell, ’31L,
associate justice of the United States
Supreme Court, was a fellow student of
Carter’s at W&L, and Powell asked Eney to
speak for him at the service.

“I admired Jack Carter a great deal,”
Powell said. “Our friendship continued over
a long period of years. He was ahead of me
in college, but we were in the same
fraternity, and he was the leader at the time
I was there. Judge Carter was a fine person
and a friend.”

 

 

 

Zip

the Bank of Waverly at his death. He was active
in many Civic organizations, including the Boy
Scouts, the Sussex County Welfare Board and
the Sussex School Board.

Charles O. Handley of Lewisburg, W. Va., died
June 10, 1977. He was a nationally known and
respected wildlife conservationist. Handley had
been superintendent of game for the Virginia
Commission of Game and Inland Fisheries;
leader of Cooperative Wildlife Research Unit at
VPI; and chief of game division, West Virginia
Department of Natural Resources. He was an
honorary Phi Beta Kappa; a recipient of the
Nash Conservation Award and the Issac Walton
League Award. A public hunting and fishing
area in West Virginia was named in his honor in
1971. He was the author of numerous articles
on wildlife conservation and management, and
in 1976 published a book, Birds of the Great
Kanawha Valley.

Lewis Waters Milbourne, a business executive
of Baltimore, Md. died July 9, 1977, after along
illness. Milbourne had been manager and vice
president of WCAO (CBS) radio station in
Baltimore since 1938. Before managing the
radio station, he was in the real estate business
in Baltimore, and also in Hollywood, Fla.
Between 1926 and 1938 he was in the
investment banking business in Baltimore.
Milbourne served as class agent for the alumni
fund for Washington and Lee for many years.

1923

Dr. Harry Blair Yeatts, a former resident of
Danville, Va., died in Buenos Aires, Argentina,
June 17, 1977. After serving an internship in
Sloan’s Hospital at the Presbyterian Medical
Center in New York City, Yeatts went to
Argentina with the Standard Oil Co. While
there, he managed the firm’s hospitals in
Argentina, Bolivia and Columbia. He returned
to Danville shortly before World War II. He
served throughout the war mostly in the Pacific
area resigning as a lieutenant colonel. Shortly
after the war he returned to Buenos Aires to
make his home. In addition to his private
medical practice in Buenos Aires, he was a
physician for the United States Embassy there
until his retirement.

1925
Amos J. Cummings, a one time teacher at the
Oakridge Institute in Oakridge, N.C., died May
1, 1977. At the time of his death he was living in
Narraganset, R.I.

1934

W. Gilbert Faulk, prominent real estate broker
and civic leader in Monroe, La., died May 3,

1977. Following service in World War II, Faulk
was discharged with the rank of captain. He was
a past commander of the L. B. Faulk Post 13 of
the American Legion, a past president of the
Monroe Rotary Club and of the Monroe Little
Theatre. For eight years, Faulk served in the
Louisiana legislature and was a candidate for
the U. S. Senate. The Associated Press voted
him the outstanding freshman member of the
state legislature. While serving as a state
representative he sponsored the bill which
established Monroe as a port and he remained
active in supporting efforts to develop the port.
Faulk became a member of the Monroe Utilities

Commission. He was owner of Faulk and Foster
Real Estate & Insurance Co. and was also owner
and president of Nationwide Moving and
Storage Corp. in Shreveport which is an agent
for Allied Van Lines. Faulk was a past president
of the Louisiana-Mississippi-Alabama chapter
of the Society of Industrial Realtors and in
November, 1975, was elected to their national
board of directors.

John Withnell Hager, who since graduation
had been working for the family corporation,
Hager Hinge Co. of St. Louis, died June 9,

1977. Hager rose through the ranks of the firm
which is one of the largest in the field of
manufacturing firms producing builders
hardware in America. The firm has a subsidiary
factory in Canada and _ warehouses in
Philadelphia, Atlanta, Dallas, Denver, Los
Angeles, and Seattle. In 1945 John Hager was
named corporate secretary and a member of
the board of directors. At the time of his death
he had served as treasurer of the company for
14 years. Hager also served as director of the
Builders Hardware Manufacturers Association
for approximately 10 years. He was a resident
of Clayton, Mo.

 

Marion M. Junkin, retired pro-
fessor of fine arts at Washington and
Lee University and founder of its De-
partment of Fine Arts, died June 18 at
his home in Lexington after a long
illness. He was 71.

He was born in Chunju, Korea,
where his father was a Presbyterian
minister. After his graduation from
Washington and Lee in 1927, he
studied art in New York for five
years—at the Art Students League, at
the Metropolitan Museum and under
George Luks.

Following his studies, he returned
to Virginia, teaching for seven years at
the Richmond School of Art, now part
of Virginia Commonwealth Uni-
versity. In 1941, he founded the
Department of Art at Vanderbilt Uni-
versity. Eight years later, he returned
to Washington and Lee to establish a
department of fine arts.

His work had been exhibited at
such places as the Carnegie Institute,
the Whitney Museum and the New
York World’s Fair. He received awards
for his works from the Virginia
Museum and the Butler Art Institute
Biennial. In 1949, W&L awarded him
the Doctor of Fine Arts degree.

His talents lay in several media,
including painting, sculpture, and
printmaking. But it was for his frescoes
that Junkin was best known. (“Few

 

Marion Junkin, Founder of Art Department, Dies at 71

 

one

artists

can plaster,” began
newspaper article about him,
fewer plasterers can paint.”)

He became interested in fresco in
the 1950s and conducted extensive
scholarly research into fresco techni-
ques. He has executed several, one of
them 55 feet long. Among the most
notable Junkin frescoes is ‘The
Struggle for Intellectual Freedom,”
completed in 1952, in the University’s
McCormick Library.

Other frescoes are in Richmond
and Memphis. Another work, entitled
“The Sources of Healing,” is in Lex-

ington’s Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

After his retirement as the head of
the art department in 1968, he devoted
much of his time to developing,
cataloguing and evaluating Washing-
ton and Lee’s permanent art collec-
tion, and did much restoration work.
He retired from active teaching in
1973.

He was instrumental in preparing
the University’s collection of paintings
by Louise Herreshoff for exhibition
last October in their first public
viewing at Washington’s Corcoran
Gallery.

President Huntley, writing about
Junkin in 1975, said he was “hardly an
lvory-tower academician; his own
talents as an artist are formidable, and
have been widely recognized . . . But
his first love has always been—and in
fact still is, even in retirement—to
share with others, to spark in them, his
own sense of the completeness which
art and the understanding of art can
lend to life.”

He is survived by his wife,
Marguerite Eddy Junkin; a son,
Michael Eddy Junkin of Norfolk; a
daughter, Margo Patricia Junkin of
Lexington; two grandaughters, Kari
and Marian Junkin of Athens, Ga., and
two brothers, Edward Leyburn Junkin
of Lewisburg, Pa., and Alfred Junkin
of Annandale, Va.

 

 

31

Walter William Pollock Jr., chairman and
former president of Manufacturers’ Appraisal
Co. of Philadelphia, died June 20 in Pebble
Beach, Calif. Pollock became president of
Manufacturers’ Appraisal Co. in_ 1953,
succeeding his father. Pollock retired in 1966
and had served as chairman since that time.

Dominick A. Spina, former Newark, N. J.,
police director, died June 19, 1977. Spina
joined the Newark police force in 1940 and
served as director for eight years. He was
replaced as director in 1970 and served as a
deputy chief until his retirement in 1976. Spina
founded and operated his own security busi-
ness.

William Henry Vick, vice president of
Oklahoma Hardware Co. and a buyer for the
firm for many years, died June 20, 1977, in
Oklahoma City. He was a member of the Crown
Heights United Methodist Church.

1949

Richard Merrell Peek, an insurance and
investment executive, died June 10, 1977, in
Santa Barbara, Calif. Peek had been in business
in West Virginia, Montana and California. In
previous years he had worked in_labor-
management relations for the county of Santa
Clara in San Jose. He served in the China-
Burma-India Theatre during World War II.

1952

Charles G. Hutzler III, president of Hutzler
Brothers Co. of Baltimore, died June 28, 1977.
He had joined the family firm in 1955 as
assistant store manager and rose through the
ranks to buyer, general merchandising
manager and vice president and_ then
succeeded his uncle as company president in
May, 1975. The department store is the oldest
in Baltimore and one of the few such
enterprises in the United States operated by a
single family. Hutzler was chairman of the
cultural resources subcommittee of the policy
committee of the Center for Metropolitan
Planning and Research at Johns Hopkins
University. He served on the board of directors
of Sinai Hospital and the Baltimore Symphony;
was a trustee of Morgan State College, the
Baltimore Museum, and the _ Baltimore
Museum of Art; and was on the board of the
American Red Cross and the Maryland
Children’s Aid Society.

1973

Myron Wesley Tolbert of Hudson, N.C., died
Jan. 21, 1977.

32

 

Help us round up
these lost alumni

The Alumni Office does not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.

Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,

send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

Jon D. Allen, ’68

James F. Berry, ’43
Robert N. Brand, 74
James H. Brooks Jr., ’73
Jerome L. Croston Jr., ’66
John E. Curran, ’66
Addison Dimmitt Jr., ’39
Charles W. Glasgow Jr., ’71
Bruce N. Gordin, ’74
William H. Jamison, ’65
Edmund P. Lawrence, ’44
David C. Lotts, ’74

Jon D. Markley, ’75
Meinhard H. Myerson, ’10L
Scott G. Patterson, ’71L
Harry J. Phillips Jr., 72
Timothy D. Roche, ’74
Joseph C. Savage, ’79
Thomas W. Stobbs III, 750
David P. Swank, ’16
James T. Swann III, ’72
Robert E. Sweeney, ’67
Thomas S. Sweeney, ’42
Seuchiro Takemura, ’32
Jo C. Tartt Jr., ’65

John E. Taylor, ’29
Oliver J. Taylor, ’40
Thomas N. Tennant, ’39
John R. Terney Jr., ’53
Wallace B. Thacker, ’51
James L. Thixton, ’11
Arthur D. Thomas, ’55
Eugene F. Thomas, ’21
Walter C. Thomas, ’41
William D. Thomas, ’34
James E. Thompson, ’46
Michael C. Thompson, ’69
John R. Thorsen, ’68
Carl L. Tipton, ’34
Joshua Tobin Jr., 67
Stephen F. Tomasek Jr., ’62
Glenn M. Torgerson, ’72
Arthur H. Train, ’50
John L. Trowbridge, ’77
Max Turk, ’29

Herman A. Turner, ’60L
Joseph L. Turner, ’35
Robert D. Turpin, ’35
Joseph A. Tvedt Jr., ’65
Blake Tyler, ’20
Theodore R. Tyler, ’30
Gary M. Underhill Jr., ’64
Bane T. Underwood, ’42

Robert C. Utley, ’67
Edward R. Vaden, ’49
Paul J. Van Buskirk, ’38
John J. Vandale, ’37
William E. Vanderbilt, ’31
Charles M. Van Dyke, ’42
Howard P. Vanetten, 60
Gary Van Hassent, ’76
Charles E. Van Horn, ’27
Milton S. Van Hoy, ’65
Willis A. Vann, ’23

Irwin L. Victor, ’13

Royal S. Vilas, ’54
Joseph K. Vinson, ’32
Verling A. Votaw, ’61
John L. Waddy, ’03

John W. Wade, ’30
Thomas H. Wade, 18
Courtney Y. Wadlington, ’41
David M. Waelder, ’70
Charles E. Wagg Jr., 41
John W. Walker, ’23
Robert D. Walker, ’33
Thomas W. Walker, 32
William S. G. Walker IV, ’69
David S. Wallace, ’75
Samuel S. Wallace III, 68
Woollen H. Walshe Jr., 57
Raymond S. Walters, ’11
Robert M. Walters, ’14
Marvin I. Walton Jr., 59
William R. Walton, ’15
Bernard R. Walzer, ’07
Patrick C. Warfield, ’43
John D. Waring III, ’45
Moffett D. Warren, ’63L
David W. Warthen, ’28
Dale V. Watkins Jr., "75
Edward D. Watkins, ’38
James D. Watson, ’16
Frederic A. Watts, ’24
James M. Wearn, ’64
Charles R. Weisbrod, ’53
Henry E. Weise, ’55
Donald D. Welch Jr., ’43
William A. Welch, ’36
Stephenson Wells, "37
Orville M. Wellslager, ’27
Edmund A. P. West, ’65
Roy L. Wheeler Jr., 43
Henry M. White, ’32
Isaac L. White III, 52
James T. White, ’70

John T. White Jr., 06
Edwin N. Whitehead, ’27
Gary H. Whitfield, ’56
John C. Whitton, °35
Robert L. Wieland, ’23
John S. Wilder Jr., °33
John W. R. Wiley, ’68
James E. Wilkerson, ’64
F. R. D. Williams, ’45
Francis S. Williams, ’48
George A. Williams Jr., ’44
John W. Williams, ’60
Lawrence M. Williams, 18
Price Williams Jr., ’31
Thomas K. Williams, ’35
Otis T. Williamson, ’59
James D. Wilson, ’38
John C. Wilson, ’74
Marshall Wilson, 63
Merrill E. Wilson, ’25
Steven A. Wilson, ’78
Jonathan C. Windle, ’73
Rader W. Winget Jr., ’57
Albert F. Winkler, 73
Stephen S. Wittmann, ’71
Douglas G. Wolfe, ’32
Albert E. Wolff, 34
Arthur A. Wolk, ’32
Steve P. Womack, ’30
Warren W. Wood, ’11
William P. Wood, ’40
John M. Woodcock, ’32
Stephen J. Woodhouse, ’12
Albert H. Woodruff, ’46
Corbin Woodward Jr., ’55
Howard L. Wormser, ’41
Charles W. Wright, ’13L
J. Warren Wright, ’36
Allen B. Wrisley Jr., ’73
John P. Wurster, ’29
William H. Wyly, ’63
Kenneth E. Yager, ’32
Peter S. Yager, '42
Arthur L. Young, ’25
Edwin J. S. Young Jr., ’59
John W. Young, ’32
Peter E. Youngs, ’67
Philip K. Youritzin, ’69
George Zack, ’45

Julius R. Zelmenovitz, ’29
George R. Zimmerer, 34

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

For members and their immediate families presents

DELUXE

   
 

Your Trip Includes-

e Round trip jet transportation to Tahiti (French
Polynesia, the enchanting islands of the South
Pacific) via Trans International Airlines DC-10
(meals and beverages served aloft**). Stereo

A

Feb. 28—Mar 7, 1978 * music and in-flight movies available at a nominal
a ' charge
Dulles Departure e Traditional Tahitian Welcome (flowers, music, etc.)
+ (gehen ae e Welcome Mai Tai reception
Per person-Double occupancy | e Deluxe accommodations at the Hotel Tahara‘a
Single Supplement - $100.00 or the Tahiti Beachcomber (or similar)

e Complimentary chaise lounges
Exciting low cost optional tours available
to Moorea, Bora-Bora, etc.

e U.S. Departure Tax ($3.00) included

e All round trip transfers and luggage handling
from airport to hotel

e Free time to pursue your own interests;
no regimentation

e Experienced Escort and Hotel Hospitality
Desk, staffed by on- site team of professionals

e Optional Meal Plan available upon request

on arrival Wi cess sbhcitns beverages available at a meres charge.
tTahiti departure tax of approx. $7.50 not included.

* Due to the Tahitian time zone difference, when you return
from Tahiti, you arrive the following day.

@ Ajr transportation - 376 seat Trans International Airlines U.S. Certifi-
cated Supplemental Air Carrier, DC-10 Jet; Estimated Cost - $374.22;
Land - $243.63; Administration - $2.00; Charter Cost - $140,707.87

 

 

COCCHCCLCOOOLCOLEe Reservation Coupon COOHCHOHCAHOOCOHOHOEHHOEEOEL®

Note: To ensure that you are enrolled on the trip of your choice,
make certain that you use this coupon!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

TAHITI: February 28-March 7, 1978

Please enroll us(me). Enclosed find deposit in the amount of

For further information, contact and mail deposits to: W.C. Washburn,
Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, VA 24450
PHONE: (703) 463-9111, Ext. 214 or 318

NOTE: You will be responsible for the single supplement fee should your roommate

 

 

 

 

 

cancel and replacement is not made. $ ($100.00 per person) for person(s).
GENERAL INFORMATION

Deposits are accepted on a First-Come, First-Served basis as space is limited! Final payment is

due 60 days prior to departure. New bookings are accepted any time prior to departure pro- Name(s)

viding space is available. Reservations may not be considered confirmed until deposits are

acknowledged. Information will be sent to you four to six weeks after your deposit is received ¢ Address

Cancellation without penalty will be permitted if written request is received 60 days before .
departure. Cancellation after 60 days will be subject to an administrative charge of $25.00 per City State Zip

person and there will also be a charge for the pro rata air fare unless replacement is made from :

a waiting list; however, the availability of such replacement is not guaranteed. An Air Fare Re- » Give Area Code w/Phone No.: Home Business

 

funder Policy is available and an application will be sent to you 4 to 6 weeks after your de-
posit is received. Refunds resulting from cancellations may take 4 to 6 weeks to process.

®Applicable government regulations require that air/land costs are quoted and that the air cost

is subject to revision based on the actual number of participants; however, only the complete
air/land package(s) described in this brochure is available. Price subject to change for currency
fluctuation, any taxes imposed since the price of this trip has been set and applicable govern-
ment regulations. Trips are based on a minimum of 40 participants. Participation in this trip
is limited to those persons who, for six months preceding departure, have been members of
the organization whose name appears on the front cover of this folder, such members’
husbands and wives, their dependent children and their parents, if living in their households.
RESPONSIBILITY: WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.
and/or its agents act as agent only for all services furnished herein and expressly disclaim all
responsibility or liability of any nature whatsoever for loss, damage or injury to property or
to person due to any cause whatsoever occurring during the tour or tours described herein and
for loss of trip time resulting from airline delays and reserves the right to cancel the entire trip
(or any optional side trips offered in connection with the trip) for any reason at any time be-
fore the departure of the trip in which event the liability, if any, shall be limited to and
liquidated by refunding to each prospective participant the monies, if any, theretofore received

Rooming with

 

Please check if single occupancy [J
Please make checks payable to: Washington and Lee University

Check airline seating preferred (not guaranteed)

() Smoking () Non Smoking

IMPORTANT: Your reservation cannot be accepted unless the fol-
lowing information is completed:

Member’s Name

 

Date Joined Organization: Month Year
For non-members enrolling on trip(s):

 

 

 

for such person’s trip which monies have not been or should not be otherwise refunded to him. « Name

All tickets,;coupons and orders are issued subject to the foregoing and to any and all terms and Relationship to member: CJ Spouse  L) Parent LC) Child—
conditions under which the means of transportation and/or other services provided thereby are Age of Child
offered and/or supplied by the owners, contractors or public carriers for whom Arthurs Travel

Center acts solely as agent. The right is reserved to change any part of the itinerary, hotels or Name

the air carrier or the aircraft utilized without notice and for any reason. Due to the fuel

Situation, the airlines anticipate the possibilitv of price increases for fuel. Therefore, thetrip Relationship to member:C) Spouse O) Parent OO) Child—

Price is subject to increase based on any surcharge levied by the airlines resulting from Age of Child

 

increased fuel costs.

 

NOTE: Information will be sent to you four to six weeks after your deposit is received.

eRSRED Ra

Re.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Available Again

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

COMMEMORATIVE
PLATES

(Wedgwood)

 

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

 

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-JACKSON HOoUuSsE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

 

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

