       
   
 
  

Petite.

CH 1977

ie
weM
ey

 & ,
.%

x)
mt} } st
ii oe

   

 

 

 

Ml

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 52, Number 2, March 1977

Willines C. Washbburm, 40 siduditininnc-siisitoeeteesss-- Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ..................... Managing Editor
Robert &. Keefe, "GB................c.ccccccesccscsseee: Associate Editor
Joyce Carter, Jan Shivel.................... Editorial Assistants
ATR TE asin oyavoss>nssecinieciiaimmmeaite ain Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Development Program Report ..........0......06005 ]
ODK Honors Five Alumni ...........0000000....00..00006. 6
TEE i OE Wri aso stents 7
PRCT TOG THEE Hig ie An eeeoints 10
SCAND FRE 6s Sade chaste ipcninni cman 12
Crepe News: 3 aden: 13
GG FOUN: oid i Soe 15
A NOIR 55. cost cshdu, rected otsarcis deccdueberiocisone ee 26
Ree NE ca a nea atin areas 28

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and
Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class post-
age paid at Lexington, Va. 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

THOMAS B. BRANCH III, ’58, Atlanta, Ga.
President

J. THomas Toucnton, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.
Vice President

CHARLES C. StTieFF II, 45, Baltimore, Md.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, '63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, '57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DupLey, ’58, Richmond, Va.

Epwin J. Foutz, 40, Gladwyne, Pa.

Marion G. HEATWOLE, '41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HO. is, 51, Memphis, ‘Tenn.

CourTNEY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.

Jerry G. Soutu, '54, San Francisco, Calif.
RosBertT M. White II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

-
—

ON THE COVER: After a long, punishing winter,
when early spring brings balmy warmth, what is
more nurturing to mind and body than to sit, con-
template, doze under one of Washington and Lee's
majestic trees—as this student is doing near McCor-
mick Library. Trees—hundreds of many varieties—
are a major part of the University’s heritage. For a
picture essay on these leafy friends supplied by Dr.
Charles W. Turner, turn to page 7. Photograph by
Sally Mann.

 

 

 

President Huntley cites further needs
in report on the development program

On Founder’s Day, 1972, President Huntley and the Board of Trustees an-
nounced a development program to raise $36 million for Washington and Lee
by the end of 1 976. On Founder’s Day, 1977—five years later—President
Huntley reported on the progress of that development program. His remarks

follow:

Customarily our Founder’s Day assembly is held on the birthday of

Robert E. Lee, who above anyone else in this school’s long history is its
founder. On only one other occasion that I am aware of in recent his-
torv have we held Founder’s Day on Washington’s Birthday, and that
was five years ago when the University’s Trustees and I announced the
University’s current development program. Because my primary re-

marks today will be addressed to an accounting to you on the phase of

that program that ended in December, it seemed appropriate here five
years later to have this assembly on the birthday of that founder who
initiated our financial development with his gift to this institution in the
eighteenth century.

The announcement made on Founder’s Day in 1972 represented

the culmination of several years of planning and work by the Board of

Trustees and by many others to determine what the University’s total
financial needs would be during the decade of the 1970s. Many of the
elements had already been rather clearly identified by 1970, and
efforts to attract gift support were under way by then, with a good
measure of success, before the complete plan was ready for announce-
ment in early 1972.

The dollar totals were startingly large, and all of us working with
them approached the totals with some trepidation. There were several
reasons why the figures seemed larger than anything in our history had
prepared us for. Washington and Lee had often, over the decades,
sought and received large gift support, but never before had the school
sought to project over a period of five or ten years what the total of all
gift support from all sources, for all purposes, would have to be.

Also, we faced a coincidence of requirements for additions to and
renovations of the physical facilities on the campus, several of which
were becoming insistent needs at the same time. And another factor
Was this: we concluded that increases in tuition would have to be re-
strained to approximately the rate of inflation in the economy and
could no longer be counted on to increase as a percentage of the oper-
ating budget as it had done over the two decades before. Specifically

the Board’s plan was—and is—to hold tuition to approximately 60% of

the educational and general budget of the University each year, or
about 90% of the total budget, including financial aid and auxiliary en-
terprises. | might note we’ve managed since 1970 to stick with this
eojective. Tuition since that time has increased only at an average
annual rate approximating the national rate of inflation.

Since Washington and Lee depends entirely upon tuition and gift

revenues. py; — ;
enues. entirely | would emphasize, this of course meant any real in-

Ree eRe.) 6.” 7 Te ee,

RR So

> _ oe one fe Ske ; P
:- ae Ore

 

President Robert E. R. Huntley addresses Founder’s Day
convocation.

 

‘The dollar totals were startingly
large, and all of us working with
them approached the totals with
some trepidation . . . never before
had the school sought to project
over a period of five to ten years
what the total of all gift support
from all sources, for all purposes,
would have to be.”

 

Development Program Report

 

 

_ - _— <

* i ~ =e 4 ' aos 6 4 : ~ “4 SS z | a ' Le
- a= ; ; aA Ze i a ote é aa Sik eae SES —
This picture, made th rough a screened window in the rear of Washington Hall, shows much of the major construction associated with the development program:
Lewis Hall (top right); Woods Creek Apartments (left); heating-cooling plant (center right); and construction on the new undergraduate library (foreground).

creases in our level of expenditures for current operations, for endow-
ment, for buildings, would have to come almost entirely from in-
creased giving—for both capital purposes (that is, buildings and en-
dowment) and current operations.

Our estimate was that during the decade of the 1970s the Univer-
sity would need gifts of nearly $60 million in total—a staggering figure.

 

“We clearly exceeded the dollar To refine this estimate with a bit more precision the Board decided to
total which we started as our deal first with those requirements that seemed most insistent and most
objective ... the total includes immediate during the five or six years just ahead. This study eventu-
more than 32,000 individual ally led to the program which was announced five years ago—$36 mil-

lion by the end of 1976.

My primary purpose today, therefore, is to account to you and to
W&L’s alumni and friends everything concerning the results of our
development efforts during the first six years of this decade, through
the end of December 1976.

First, I should like to state what in these days is commonly called
“the bottom line”: we clearly exceeded the dollar total which we stated
as our objective. The total as of December 31 is nearly $37.5 million, or
to be more precise, $37,469,000.

All of us have every reason to be proud of that achievement—and

gifts.”

 

2

we are proud of it—and all of us have every reason to be grateful to
literally thousands of persons who have made this possible. The total
includes more than 32,000 individual gifts. In this very room today,
articularly among the staff and faculty, are many whose gifts not only
swelled the dollar total but also set an example of devotion and
generosity for others who are scattered across the nation.
I am reminded at this point of a joke told of a fellow who had won
the Lrish Sweepstakes. When he was notified of his victory and the large

dollar total that would come to him as a result of it, he was asked what
he was going to do with it. He was heard to reply that he was going to
apply it on his debts—as far as it would go.

Approximately $21.6 million of the total thus far given through
1976 is for physical improvements, notably for the new law building,
Lewis Hall, for the new addition to the gymnasium and the other ath-
letic facilities, for the new undergraduate library on which construc-
tion was begun last summer, for numerous improvements to the back
campus area and to utilities that serve the campus, and for some of the
initial steps in renovation of our old historic buildings on the front
campus. Because of these generous gifts, although the dollars we have
raised have not done all for us that we thought they would in 1972, we
have built or have under construction all the physical facilities which we
announced as objectives for fulfillment by this time.

Approximately $10 million of the total has been given or commit-
ted for endowment, which has been and will continue to be among our
most pressing needs.

These capital gifts, and by capital gifts again I mean gifts for build-
ings and endowment, included some very large gifts, as we knew would
be essential if we were to have any chance of success.

There were six gifts of more than $1 million. The largest of these
was the gift of $9 million from Frances and Sydney Lewis of Richmond
for the School of Law, assuring our ability to construct the needed facil-
ity and providing $2 million in special endowment; $3.8 million came

to us from the estate of Mrs. Miriam McClure of New Orleans, the
daughter and wife of an alumnus; $1.6 million came to us from the
estate of our beloved alumnus of Lexington and Lynchburg, Richard

E. Gooch; $1.5 million was given to us by Miss Ruth Parmly of New
York City, who had had no prior connection with Washington and Lee,
but who found here an expression of her ideals in education which re-
flected in her view the teaching career of her father at the City College
of New York nearly a half century ago; $1.5 million came to us from the
€state of our beloved alumnus of Leesburg, Virginia, Wilbur C. Hall, in
whose memory the library in the new law school is named; and $1.3
million came to us from our good Trustee Jack Warner of Tuscaloosa,
eepama, who is a long-time member of the Board and a devoted alum-
us,

In addition to these six gifts of more than $1 million, Washington
and Lee has received for capital purposes 43 gifts ranging from $100,-
900 to $1 million, 47 gifts ranging from $25,000 to $100,000, and 131
= Capital gifts of more than $5,000. And let me add that $13.9 mil-
ion of the ca pital gift total came from our Board of Trustees. We owe
STatitude to many people, not all of whom we can thank here today or

“i

 

‘Although the dollars we have
raised have not done all for us
that we thought they would in
1972, we have built or have under
construction all the physical
facilities which we announced as
objectives for fulfillment by this
time.”

 

 

“There were six gifts of more
than $1 million... 43 gifts rang-
ing from $100,000 to $1 million,
47 gifts ranging from $25,000 to
$100,000, and 131 other capital
gifts of more than $5,000...
$13.9 million of the capital gift
total came from our Board of
Trustees.”

 

Development Program Report

 

Addition to Doremus Gymnasium is another large project

in the development program.

 

‘‘Annual giving has increased
more rapidly than we had hoped
—or than we had expected would
be necessary.”

‘“‘Annual giving for current opera-
tions is in many ways the bell-
wether indicator of our future.”

 

 

‘“‘We had projected the need for
$14 million in new gifts for en-
dowment; we have received $10
million ... That we have thus far
managed to keep the budget in
balance is a function of several
factors, but largely the result of
the greater share of the burden
borne by annual giving.”

 

4

indeed ever, but I would mention specifically the work of the hundreds
of volunteers organized under what we called the Achievement Coun-
cil and chaired by our Trustee John Stemmons of Dallas, Texas, the
work of the Alumni Board, and indeed, above all, the work of the
Board of Trustees.

To recapitulate, approximately $31.6 million has been given to us
for capital purposes by the end of 1976. The remaining portion of the
$37.5 million total I announced earlier is represented by approximate-
ly $5.8 million given over the six years for current operations. And I
should like to pause here to emphasize that this amount is more than
50 per cent larger than we projected; that is, annual giving has increas-
ed more rapidly than we had hoped—or than we had expected would
be necessary. I shall allude later to the importance of this fact as a major
reason for our ability to maintain a balanced budget thus far. Annual
giving for current operations is in many ways the bellweather indicator
of our future, and so it is especially encouraging to note its good pro-
gress—thanks to our alumni and parents and friends who give each
year and thanks to the business community of Virginia who supports
Washington and Lee through the Virginia Foundations for Indepen-
dent Colleges.

As I have already mentioned, the capital gifts, as splendid as they
have been, have not done for us all that we had expected. The primary
reason for this has been the far higher rate of inflation than we pre-
dicted—an inflation which has hit construction costs with particular
severity, in some instances as much as | per cent a month, making
some of our cost estimates for physical construction virtually obsolete,
notably for the new undergraduate library begun recently, and so
more of our effort has had to be devoted to building funds than we had
anticipated.

We are at this moment approximately $1 million short of the total
gift commitments required to fund that project—an amount which
must be raised in the months just ahead.

On the endowment side of the capital ledger, the short fall is even
greater. We had projected the need for $14 million in new gifts for en-
dowment; we have received $10 million. Furthermore, the erratic per-
formance of the stock market in the intervening years of the 1970s has
inhibited endowment growth significantly. The net result is that our
current endowment of about $22.75 million is approximately $6 mil-
lion less than the endowment we had projected as necessary six years
ago to provide a balanced budget in this current fiscal year.

That we have thus far managed to keep the budget in balance is a
function of several factors, but largely a result of the greater share of
the burden borne by annual giving, which, as I stated, exceeded our ex-
pectations. One of our great challenges for the immediate future re-
sults from the certainty that the rate of growth in annual giving—20
per cent a year in recent years—cannot possibly continue to close the
widening gap produced by the diminished share of the burden carried
by endowment.

This situation would have had all the earmarks of an immediate
crisis if it were not for the news we received last year of the amaz-
ingly generous bequest for Washington and Lee in the estate of the

 

late John Lee Pratt of Fredericksburg. The bequest—which is not in-
cluded in any of the figures I have mentioned today—is expected to be
approximately $12 million when it is finally distributed to us later this

coor.
s Already, in the current year, we are using some of the income from
the undistributed estate to assist with faculty salaries and with scholar-
ships, the purposes which Mr. Pratt specified.

When Mr. Pratt’s estate is distributed and used over the decades
ahead as he specified, it will assist measurably toward achieving the
same objectives primarily served by permanent endowment, that is,
salaries and financial aid. But it is clear that additional endowment in
the years immediately ahead remains our most insistent need if we are
to have any real expectations of continuing to meet this University’s
educational aspirations.

The Board of Trustees has begun an intensive study of the financial
requirements of the next several years. Nearly every one in this room
will be involved in that process in some way in the months immediately
ahead as will the Board and the alumni.

Let me pause a moment to emphasize again that among the many
blessings of this University is the strength and dedication of its Board
of Trustees. | know many other college presidents and something
about many other institutions of higher learning, and I know of none
that can boast of the dedication and ability and generosity of a Board
of Trustees like ours. Particularly, | would like to mention the Rectors
or chairmen of the Board who have served during these last seven
years and who had so much to do with the success of the program to
date, the late Dr. Huston St. Clair, the late Ross Malone, Dr. John New-
ton Thomas, and the current rector, Mr. Marshall Nuckols.

We already know what some of the elements of our needs in the
years immediately ahead will be because we identified them some years
back, and they are entailed by the developments we have already un-
dertaken. We know, for example, on the physical side of the ledger,
that we must renovate the old library when it moves into new quarters
so that that building can receive the School of Commerce, and we know
of needs on the physical side also for renovation, and we know for sure
there will be others. We know already, as I have mentioned, that the
needs for endowment will be extensive, and the Board is intent upon
moving quickly to identify accurately what the other needs for the
years just ahead will be. The process will be a difficult one in many re-
spects, not the least of which will be the time it will consume for all of
us. But the success that we have had in meeting our aspirations both in
recent years and over the long sweep of our history—our heritage, our
distinctive role in education generally, and the particular standard of
€xcellence to which we have always subscribed, to which we continue to
subscribe, with more determination and optimism than ever before—
these demand that we do no less.

Fund-raising is a creature, not the cause, of our aspirations. Our
form of fiercely independent education is now as it always has been an
act of faith, and our institution represents one of the original state-

ments of that act of faith. And, for all of us, I restate that act of faith
ere today.

 

“It is clear that additional en-
dowment in the years im-
mediately ahead remains our
most insistent need if we are to
have any real expectations of
continuing to meet this Uni-
versity’s educational aspirations.”

 

 

“The Board is intent upon
moving quickly to identify
accurately what the other needs
for the years just ahead will be.
The process will be a difficult one
. .. [But] our heritage, our dis-
tinctive role in education gener-
ally, and the particular standard
of excellence to which we have
always subscribed, to which we
continue to subscribe with more
determination and optimism than
ever before—these demand that
we do no less.”

 

ODK honors five prominent alumni
during Founder’s Day convocation

Five prominent Washington and Lee
alumni were honored by initiation into
Omicron Delta Kappa, the national lead-
ership fraternity founded at W&L 63
years ago, during the Founder's Day con-
vocation at which President Huntley re-
ported on the University’s development
program. Fifteen students were
“tapped” into ODK membership.

The honorary initiates were:

William H. Flowers, ’33, of Thomas-
ville, Ga., board chairman of Flowers In-
dustries Inc., wholesale bakers and distri-
butors. He is a former Georgia state sena-
tor, a director of the National Association

also

of Manufacturers, a board member of

West Point Pepperell Inc., the textile
manufacturer, and a director of several
other professional and business concerns.

Oliver M. Mendell, °50, senior vice
president of Chemical Bank of New York,
the nation’s seventh-largest. He has been
with Chemical Bank since 1958 and is now
responsible for business development
among its 252 branches. He is president
of the Fifth Avenue Association, a mem-
ber of the board of governors of the Citi-

zens Budget Commission, a trustee of

Adelphi University’s Center of Banking

and Money Management, a fellow of

Brandeis University, and a trustee of the
federation of Jewish Philanthropies.

Dr. Robert L. Pinck, ’42, of Cresskill,
N. J., director of radiology at Long Island
College Hospital and a leader in establish-
ing X-ray technology training programs
in New York state. He earned his M. D.
degree from Duke University and has
been with the Long Island College Hospi-
tal since 1956. He isa fellow of the Ameri-
can College of Radiology and the Ameri-
can College of Physicians. An outstanding
athlete at W&L, Pinck received the Sports
Illustrated All-America Award in 1967.

Col. Harold J. Sullivan, ’32, of Okla-
homa City, a leading lawyer in the South-
west. (He could not attend the convoca-
tion because of illness and was honored in
absentia.) Col. Sullivan earned his law de-
gree from Oklahoma University in 1935
and has practiced law in Oklahoma City
since then. He was assistant municipal

6

William H. Flowers

 

Dr. Robert L. Pinck

counselor for Oklahoma City and has
been executive director of the Oklahoma
Bar Association.

U.S. Rep. G. William Whitehurst, ‘50,
of Virginia Beach, Congressman from
Virginia’s Second District. He was elected
to his fifth term last fall. He holds the
M. A. from the University of Virginia and
the Ph.D. from West Virginia University.
He taught history at Old Dominion Uni-
versity, Norfolk, from 1962 until his elec-

tion to Congress in 1968 and was dean of

students at ODU from 1963 as well.
The fifteen students initiated
ODK were:

into

 

Rep. G. William Whitehurst

Law: William John Braaksma of Kala-
mazoo, Mich., Jeffrey William Morris of
Coventry, R. I., and James Edwin Nichol-
son of Bethesda, Md.; Undergraduates:

John L. Bruch III of Muncy, Pa., William

E. Craver III of Charleston, S. C., Tho-
mas H. Hunter III of Charlotte, Thomas
N. Keigler, of Towson, Md., Walter D.
Kelley Jr., of Norfolk, Paul J. Larkin of

Jackson Heights, N. Y., David J. McLean

of Rutherford, N. J., Jesse C. O'Neal of
Chevy Chase, W. Kirkland Ruffin of Nor-
folk, John Daniel Scott III of Sarasota,
Fla., Jeffrey L. Slatcoff of Windber, Pa.,
and James M. Underhill of Babylon, N. Y.

 

 

“ a ' 2 ye. ea
vey a Wa
vs adit Of oe

         
 

TREES OF W&L

lhe trees on the campus of Washington and Lee are a part
of our heritage that grows and improves with the years. Photos
taken in the 19th century show buildings towering over the
small trees; today, however, the reverse is true. Many of the
trees were set out by University grounds personal or by faculty

families living on campus; others were gifts from friends of
Washington and Lee. The result is an extraordinary variety of

fine specimens. Dr. Charles Turner, professor of history, sup-
plied the infor mation for this picture essay and engaged W.
Patrick Hinely, ’°73, to make the photographs.

AIRE

aS 2
were :

© eer > ———
a ae
i 7 7
» 2 : .
, - « °

 

he yard of the Lee-Jackson House is graced by several very
old and very beautiful dogwoods first planted at the fencelines
back in the days when cattle and horses roamed the Front Cam-
Pus. ‘These several large rows of dogwood amidst the resi-
dential buildings continue to bloom so profusely every spring.

 

 

There are more mountain ash at W&L than any other species.
Perhaps the most familiar is the “Graduation Tree” at the inter-
section of the walks leading to Lee Chapel and Red Square on
the south side of the campus, where for the past quarter cen-
tury or so graduating classes have received their diplomas.
This tree was planted during Gen. Lee’s administration.

 

a

More than a century ago, Gen. Lee planted twin ginkgo trees
along the walk to the then-new President’s House, creating a
sort of living entrance. Just to their left is the majestic Norway
spruce, which has been W&L’s Christmas tree for more than 40
years; behind the house, out of view in the photograph, is a
huge oak almost in the hedgerow of the garden which dates
back to the time when Washington Academy moved to its pres-
ent site in the first years of the 18th century.

“I

 

Toward Lee Chapel is located the finest white oak anywhere in
the area, its companion poplars and maples seemingly looking
up at it in their midst. Its dark red leaves cling until late fall and

Down the campus toward Red Square and the Memorial Gate add majesty to every winter scene. Dr. Turner surveys its

is located a wonderfully shaped larch tree, probably planted by
the occupants of the Tucker-Fishwick house some 70 years ago.
Its light green needles furnish a charming contrast to the
darker foliage of neighboring trees in the summertime.

height.

arn OF

The lawn in front of the Colonnade is open today, providing an
exquisite view by day and night, held fondly in memory by
every alumnus and visitor. There remains a beautiful fringe of
trees about the edge of the Front Campus, however, and a
striking linden tree grows directly in front of Robinson Hall.

— .
Se ane - ~ - i
> > ~h ——

-

This large maple beside the Dean’s House, close by McCormick
Library with its stately old ashs, oaks and magnolias, has shad-
ed the way of generations of students as they approach New-
comb Hall. Through the limbs of this ancient specimen in 1864
was shot Hunter’s famous cannonball that lodged in the side of

the house and is still there.

8

 

he ei > aes
=

ee

 

4 Am A

” close by Miss Annie JoW es house,

 

Also in the ‘ ‘Hollow.

 

T _ largest - of the anes copper beech trees at W ashington and

Lee stands not far from several beechnuts in the yard of the stands a fine grove of black walnut, maple, and ash trees in
residence closest to Tucker Hall; they were planted by Dr. which generations of campus children have climbed and built
James |.. Howe during the half-century he lived in the house. tree-houses.

Dr. Turner stands beneath it.

ae

 

The birds are never ata loss for nesting and perching places on
Washington and Lee’s leafy campus.

 

Across Letcher Avenue, down in the “Hollow,” are two huge
*pruce trees that marked the entrance to the “Old Blue” Hotel.
Which stood there until 1947. Birds still seem to find their
oughs and berries especially inviting.

 

Ah, this is the life.

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

FANCY DRESS

1977

Wall-to-Wall People

The theme was “An Evening in Paris.”
The dress was black tie (though many
wore top hats and tails). The decorations
were the most intricate they’ve ever been
in 70 years of Fancy Dresses (which is say-
ing a lot indeed). The band was Woody
Herman’s (above, left; facing page, left
center) in front of nothing less Parisian,
nothing less elegant, than the Arc de
Triomphe. The people were wall to wall
—and their faces, 3,000 of them, proved
they were having the time of their lives.
There were students and alumni and the
press and faculty and trustees (witness
Mr. and Mrs. Frank C. Brooks, below
left). Old George was decorated again
(opposite, top right; note his evening
clothes, not to mention his lacrosse stick
and six-pack), resurrecting a tradition

 

which perhaps upsets the University ac-
countants, who have to come up with a
little extra money to rehabilitate him
again, but almost no one else.

Just as in the olden days, Fancy Dress
is a whole weekend and a half. The Ball is
the highlight, but the revelry begins the
day before, as it always did, and lasts for
a day or three afterwards, depending on
your stamina. This year, winter’s bitter
cold broke just in time for an estimated
4,000 students and their dates and their
friends from other colleges, some still (or
newly) in costume, to gather as best they
could at water’s edge, the Buffalo Creek,
not too far from Lexington, to cap off
what they proved is still “the outstanding
collegiate social event in the South”—and
surely beyond.

 

 

 

 

tin st

gf. ‘Smeg qog Aq OoYyg tyq wWine-Aury

 

af news briefs

W&L FARES WELL IN COMPARATIVE SURVEY
OF FACULTY COMPENSATION AND TUITION

A comparative survey this winter of 29 private colleges and
universities in the east ranks Washington and Lee fifth in the
compensation it pays its faculty—while showing that charges at
W&L for tuition, room and board are lower than those costs at
21 of the other institutions.

W&L’s 1976-77 compensation figure—that is, salary and
fringe benefits combined—is an average of $22,878 for all fac-
ulty ranks. Among the other schools which participated in the
survey, the four with higher compensation figures are Prince-
ton, Duke and Brown Universities and Amherst College. (All
four also have student costs substantially higher than W&L’s.)

The charges at Washington and Lee for tuition, room and
board total $4,500. The range among the institutions surveyed
was $6,737 (Brown University) at the high end, and $3,715 at
the low end (Presbyterian College, South Carolina). The cost
figures are for next academic year.

The annual survey is conducted by Davidson College.

The Davidson survey data point out an unusual level of
financial efficiency at Washington and Lee, with the University
comparing favorably among the 29 institutions in terms of both
its most important expenditure, faculty salaries, and its largest
source of income, tuition.

For many years, Washington and Lee has stressed high fac-
ulty salaries as an important way to attract and keep a gifted
teaching faculty. And the University has also determined that
tuition costs must be kept relatively low—at 60 per cent of the
general educational budget, with the gap to be met primarily by
annual gifts and endowment income—and that tuition in-
creases should be no higher than the approximate increase in
the general cost of living.

 

 

A POLITE SIT-IN

It happened at last. Washington and Lee had its very own
1960s-style “sit-in” this winter. But, characteristically of W&L
perhaps, it was marked by civility every step of the way.

About two dozen black students—frustrated by an ap-
parent lack of progress in recruitment of black faculty and by
what they sensed to be diminished vigor in recruiting black stu-
dents, among other issues—staged a demonstration in the re-
ception area of President Huntley’s office. Traffic wasn’t block-
ed, and voices weren't raised. The students said they felt it
necessary to make their presence conspicuous, however, and
they did. In all, it lasted from a little after nine in the morning
to a little before eight that evening.

The issues were complicated by a separate problem which
occurred simultaneously (and which triggered the demonstra-
tion)—the conviction of a black student of a violation of the
Honor System. Such matters are considered to be strictly inter-
nal, though inordinate media attention resulted in the January
case. The University steadfastly maintained a “no comment”
posture, its rule in Honor System matters. Because the Univer-
sity’s by-laws give no one other than the student body any voice
or power in the administration of the Honor System, the ques-
tion was eventually settled in a routine way by the Student
Executive Committee. Black students continued to express ap-
prehension, however, over alleged procedural irregularities in

12

the particular case which the black students believe, according
to the Ring-tum Phi’s account, resulted in a “
tion.

The other issues raised—faculty and student recruitment;
financial aid policies; perceived discrimination and lack of sup-
port with regard to athletic and social activities—are being dis-
cussed in a continuing series of meetings between the inter-
ested students and the pertinent administrators and faculty
committees, with an eye toward keeping the students up to date
on efforts W&L has long been engaged in, with varying de-
grees of success, and keeping the University aware of specific
concerns on the minds of the students. The ad hoc meetings
will become a regular means of two-way communication, both
groups agreed.

railroad” convic-

 

 

VIRGINIA DEMOCRATS TO DEBATE AT W&L

The two announced contenders for the Democratic nomi-
nation to run next fall for governor of Virginia, Atty. Gen.
Andrew P. Miller and former Lieut. Gov. Henry Howell, will
be at W&L for a debate April 28. The event will take place in
Lee Chapel and is sponsored by the W&L Young Democrats.

GLEE CLUB SINGS AT ST. PATRICK’S MASS

The W&L Glee Club sang for Sunday Mass in March at St.
Patrick’s Cathedral in New York City—the high point of its
annual winter concert tour. Under the direction of Dr. Gordon
P. Spice, assistant professor of music, the group also sang in
Maryland and Pennsylvania on the tour, and took an evening
out to see The Wiz on Broadway.

 

Former Massachusetts Supreme Court Justice Paul C. Reardon speaks at
law school seminar. Law Dean Roy L. Steinheimer is at left.

VISITORS TO CAMPUS

Speakers and performers who visited Washington and Lee
during January and February included:

—Former Massachusetts Supreme Court Justice Paul C.
Reardon, author of the so-called “Reardon Report” on the
free-press versus fair-trial dilemma, for a series of seminars
and classes with law and journalism students and for a public
address, “Fair Trial: The Conflict Between the First and Sixth
Amendments to the Constitution,” sponsored by a new Visiting
Scholars Series under the auspices of the Student Bar Associa-
tion in the School of Law;

—The Virginia Museum of Fine Arts’ Commedia dell'arte
troupe, a “traveling clown show,” for a performance in the
Troubadour Theatre;

—Dr. Harry A. Bent, professor of physical chemistry
at North Carolina State Univesity, “Molecular Architecture: A

 

 

 

 

 

E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., rector of the Board of Trustees, was the special guest
this winter at a cocktail party in honor of Lexington members of the Robert E. Lee
Associates, Washington and Lee’s most generous supporters. The gathering took

lace here in the home of Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of development, and Mrs.

Hotchkiss.

Synoptic View,” sponsored jointly by W&L’'s chemistry depart-
ment and the University Center In Virginia, a statewide college
speakers: consortium;

—Dr. Henry O. Pollak, director of mathematical and statis-
tical research for Bell Laboratories, for a day-long series of
meetings and classes, sponsored jointly by the mathematics de-
partment and the University Center in Virginia;

—Prof. Gregory Vlastos, chairman of the philosophy de-
partment at Princeton University, “The Theory of Social Jus-
tice in Plato's Republic,” sponsored jointly by the W&L philoso-
phy department and the University Center in Virginia;

—Dr. Alfred J. Restaino, director of corporate research for
ICI United States, “Industrial Chemistry: From Research Idea
to Product,” as part of the W&L chemistry department's weekly
seminar series;

—Virtuoso pianist Aline Van Barentzen and Swedish tenor
Rolf Bjorling, both sponsored by the W&L Concert Guild;

—Nikos Stavroulakis, director of the Jewish Museum in
Greece, “Byzantine Icons,” co-sponsored by the philosophy
and fine arts departments at W&L and the Rockbridge Chap-
ter of the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts;

—A six-member panel from the U.S. Army War College
for a discussion of topical defense issues, sponsored by the
W&L military science department.

PHI BETA KAPPA ELECTS 34

Washington and Lee’s Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
has elected 34 new members—17 undergraduate seniors, 11
Juniors, and six 1976 graduates.

Newly elected seniors are Howard C. Alexander Jr., Mont-
somery, Ala. (chemistry major); Christopher E. Attinger,
Crozet, Va. (pre-medical studies); Lance C. Brambeck, Hunt-
ington, N. Y. (music); Paul W. Cella, Powhatan, Va. (English);
Landon W. Garland Jr., Richmond (interdepartmental);
__ Also, Edward B. Gerhardt, Lynchburg (biology and chem-
Stry); Stephen Q. Giblin, Baltimore (politics); Sinclair J. Har-
Cus Jr., Bloomfield Hills, Mich. (biology); Warren L. Jervey,
Radford, Va. (French); John W. McNamara, Norfolk (politics);
Stephen 8. Norris, Dallas (administration);

W. Penn Plummer, East Liverpool, Ohio (European his-

tory and German); Frederick K. Reuning, Selinsgrove, Pa. (his-
tory); A. Gayden Robert Jr., Baton Rouge, La. (chemistry);
Clark G. Thompson Jr., Houston (economics); Egerton K. van
den Berg Jr., Winter Park, Fla. (mathematics and science); and
William M. Watson Jr., Richmond (history).

Juniors elected to Phi Beta Kappa are Jerry M. Baird, Fort
Worth, Tex. (administration); Mark A. Bradley, Roanoke
(American history and German); Robert P. Florenza, Sea Girt,
N. J. (administration and accounting); Charles E. Hinkle,
Temple, Tex. (administration and accounting); Everett B.
Houston Jr., Longview, Tex. (chemistry);

Also, Thomas J. Loving, Stage Junction, Va. (chemistry);
William C. Porth Jr., Garden City, N. Y. (English); John F.
Sacco, Hendersonville, N. C. (pre-medical studies); James G.
Sheridan Jr., Lexington (chemistry and engineering); Gregory
C. Sieminski, Silver Spring, Md. (English); and John S. Strong,
North Wales, Pa. (administration).

The May 1976 graduates elected to membership are Ben R.
Barton, Nashville; John G. Berry, Madison, Va.; Harold R.
Howe Jr., Belmont, N. C.; James F. McMenamin, Richmond;
William B. Peard, Atlanta; and Robert G. Pugh Jr., Shreveport.

The initiation of new members took place March 17, with
Dr. Merrill D. Peterson, professor of history at the University
of Virginia and an eminent authority on Thomas Jefferson,
the principal speaker.

LAW ESSAY TAKES NATIONAL HONORS

A 1976 graduate of the School of Law, Frank L. Duemmler,
has taken fifth-place honors in a nationwide competition on
copyright law sponsored by the American Society of Com-
posers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP). Duemmler’s essay,
“Library Photocopying: An International Perspective,” was
chosen from among 61 papers entered in the competition by
students from 44 law schools throughout the nation. Duem-
mler had previously won a first-place award at W&L for his
research.

MASTERS OF MIME IN RESIDENCE

Five members of the famed Warsaw Chamber Opera
Mime Company are at Washington and Lee during the winter
term as adjunct teachers in the drama department.

The mimes are instructing W&L students in the use of
various theatrical styles and directing them in applying those
techniques. Their form of mime is a combination of ballet,
dance, music and pantomime, more advanced than Marcel
Marceau’s popularized form of the art.

The Warsaw players’ six-week visit to W&L is sponsored by
the Glasgow Endowment, established 17 years ago by Arthur
Graham Glasgow to promote the creative arts at the University.

CONTACT ’77

Contact, W&L’s student-organized symposium series,
opened this winter with an address by U.S. Sen. Joseph Biden
(D.-Del.) and two lectures, one on Lebanon and another on
South Africa, by Talcott W. Seelye, the former ambassador to
Tunisia and Presidential emissary to Lebanon, who is now
deputy assistant Secretary of State for African affairs.

Other Contact speakers this spring will be:

—Charles Kuralt, CBS News correspondent (the popular
“On the Road” series for the evening news);

—Bruce Jenner, last year’s Olympic gold medal-winner in
track;

—Randall Meyer, president of Exxon USA; and

—Vincent Bugliosi, chief prosecutor in the Charles Manson
case and co-author of Helter Skelter.

13

Chapter News

77 Lynchburg Citation
goes to Lea Booth

LYNCHBURG. Lea Booth, ’40, execu-
tive director of the Virginia Foundation
for Independent Colleges (VFIC), was
awarded the Lynchburg Citation at the
annual banquet in February of the Lynch-
burg chapter.

Booth has been executive director of

the VFIC since it was established in 1953.
The VFIC is a joint fund-raising agency
of 12 private four-year colleges, working
primarily with Virginia businesses and in-
dustry. Last year, it raised $1.3 million in
contributions, providing the _ largest
amount of money per college and the lar-
gest amount per student of all 40 similar
college funds throughout the United
States. W&L’s proportionate share of that
total was $123,000.

The citation presented to Booth re-
marked on his “unbelievably dogged and
persistent efforts” in convincing prospec-
tive VFIC donors to make their gifts each
year. The citation also credited him with
“bringing a quality of humor, joy and zest
to the task of elevating simultaneously the
performance of [Virginia’s] colleges and
the standards of responsible citizenship
in this Commonwealth.”

After graduation from W&L, Booth
worked for a time as a reporter for United
Press (now UPI) in New York City. Fol-
lowing Navy service in World War II, he
returned to W&L as public-relations di-
rector and assistant professor of journa-

lism. In 1950 he became staff director of

the U. S. House of Representatives’ Ad-
ministration Committee, a post he held
until joining the VFIC three years later as
its first full-time worker.

He received an honorary Doctor of

Laws degree last year from W&L.

Booth was the originator of the annual
Lynchburg Citation—which is now re-
garded as the most important honor any
Washington and Lee alumni chapter can
confer. Others who have received it in
past years include the late Frank J. Gil-
liam, dean of students and director of ad-
missions at W&L for more than 30 years;
Frances and Sydney Lewis, donors of $9
million to W&L’s law school; Edgar F.
Shannon Jr., former president of the Uni-

14

he i 24 4

Semaine eke Tee '
ele. ra
>» a “J wef |
rs
‘. Ye 7 F 7 a
A wf ~\\ P
at |

|

NEW ENGLAND—John P. Mello, '72, chapter president, C. Frederick Bent, 66, Charles Pride, ’72,

and Dean of Students Lewis G. John, "58.

versity of Virginia; and Dr. John Newton
Thomas, a W&L trustee for more than 30
years and rector of the board from 1970
to 1974.

The evening’s speakers were Prof. R.
H. MacDonald, head of the Department
of Journalism and Communications, who
outlined to the Lynchburg alumni the
recent technological revolutions in both
print and broadcast journalism and the
ways W&L’s journalism program has
moved forward to meet them; and Ber-
tram R. Schewel, '41, whose annual “state
of the chapter” report has become one of
the most popular (if outrageous) features
of the annual Lynchburg banquet.

NEW ENGLAND. An - enthusiastic
group of about 45 alumni, their wives,
and friends from Boston and the New
England area joined for cocktails and
dinner at the Marriott Motor Hotel in
Newton, Mass., on Jan. 13. Dr. Lewis G.
John, ’58, dean of students, was the guest
of honor. Dean John presented a full and
up-to-date report on the University,
dwelling particularly on his special re-
sponsibilities in the areas of student af-
fairs and admissions. John Mello, '72,

 

newly installed president of the chapter,
made the arrangements for the meeting,
the first held in several years. Mello
recently returned from a tour of duty
with the Peace Corps in Mali. He made
several announcements and encouraged
alumni of the area to support a more
active program for the chapter in the
years ahead.

GULF STREAM. Members of the chap-
ter began the new year on Jan. 11 witha
meeting in the University Club in Miami.
A large group of alumni and their guests
attended the reception and dinner.
Guests of honor included President and
Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley, Rector Emeri-
tus John Newton Thomas, ’24, and Ath-
letic Director and Head Football Coach
William D. McHenry, 54. McHenry was
the principal speaker. He discussed the
overall athletic program at Washington
and Lee and explained some of the recent
NCAA rulings affecting the University.
Both President Huntley and Dr. Thomas
reported on the state of the University.
A. J. Barranco, 64, chapter president,
and Larry Craig, 66, made the arrange-
ments for the meeting.

 

 

 

Class notes

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms
finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas,
birthdays, anniversaries, or wed-
dings. All profit from sales of the
chair goes to the scholarship
fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14.

Price: $68.00 f.o.b.
Lexington, Virginia
Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your

check. Please include your name,
address. and telephone number.

Mail your order to

WASHINGTON AND LEE
ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

1916

E. B. (Tep) SHULTz received the Layman of
the Year Award from the National Council
of Community Churches in September, 1976.
Shultz lives in Norris, Tenn., and was one of
the founders of the Norris Religious Fellow-
ship which began in 1935. After graduation
from Washington and Lee where he was an
All-American football player, Shultz return-
ed to the campus to serve as the local YMCA
secretary. He also served in’ the same
capacity at the University of Kansas from
1923-29. He was then appointed a Kent
Fellow of the National Council of Religion
in Higher Education and studied at Union
Theological Seminary and Columbia Uni-
versity from 1929-31. In 1934 Shultz was ap-
pointed assistant to the chief of labor re-
lations for T'VA and moved to Norris. He
became chief of labor relations in 1937 and
served at that post until his retirement in
1959. Since retirement Shultz has been a
Visiting professor for research study in na-
tional retirement policy at Cornell Univer-
sity. His civic accomplishments include the
presidency of the regional chapter of the
Mental Health Association; membership on
the board of directors of the state mental
health group and on the board of direc-
tors of the Anderson County Community
Action Commission. He now serves on the
National Advisory Committee of the Na-
tional Council of Senior Citizens.

hues

WILLIAM J. RUSHTON, chairman emeritus of
Protective Life Insurance Co., of Birming-
ham, Ala., was recognized as “Man of the
South” by Dixie Business. Dixie Business is
an Atlanta publication which describes it-
self as “The Voice of Southern Progress.”
‘The editor of the magazine made the award
at a meeting of the Birmingham Rotary
Club. The editor noted that Rushton was
the sixth member of the Birmingham Rotary
Club to be named “Man of the South.”

Davin C. STOREY continues to enjoy his re-
lirement after 15 years. He was formerly
with the American Bridge Division of U. S.
Steel Corp. He lives in Atlanta, Ga., and
manages to play golf several times each week.

1923

FRANK Hurt has completed writing a_his-
tory of Ferrum College. He also prepared a
monograph, “Early Christian Missions in
Franklin County,” for the Bicentennial
year. He lives in Ferrum, Va.

J. Burke Rippick Jr., a former manufactur-
ers representative, retired in 1965 and now
lives in Memphis, Tenn. Before retiring he
was associated with the Commerical In-
vesument Trust in both New York and
Chicago.

1925
CALVIN T. BuRTON is working full time as
an ophthalmologist yet finds time to play golf
at least twice a week. He and his wife re-
cently returned from a three-week tour of the
Alps.

Wittiam A. McRITcHIE retired from Mor-
gan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York in
1968 after 40 years of service. He was vice
president and trust officer at the time of his
retirement.

FRANK ‘T. MITCHELL continues as director of
two banks in Naples, Fla. He also manages
to play a great deal of golf and to read con-
siderably,

Dk. WILLIAM L. WooLFOLK has retired from
the practice of otolaryngology after 45 years.
The Woolfolks have two children and one
granddaughter. They live in Owensboro,
Ky.

1926

A portrait of JupGe Earte A. CapMus has
been given to the Chesapeake General Dis-
trict Court by that city’s Virginia Bar As-
sociation.

M. L. RIpENouwR, a retired executive of British
American Tobacco Co., Ltd. in Hong Kong,
now resides in Naples, Fla.

1927

F. BRUCE JACKSON retired October, 1976, as
vice president and sales manager of South-
western Wood Preserving Co. of Muskogee,
Okla.

Although he retired in 1974, WILLIAM W,
MorGAN is still active in astronomical re-
search. He was a professor at the University
of Chicago and director of the Yerkes Ob-
servatory,

C. W. CLARK PooLe and his wife Mabel live
on the western shore of Chesapeake Bay
where he enjoys boating and fishing.

GEORGE W. SUMMERSON was re-elected mayor
of Abingdon, Va., for a term which expires
June, 1978. In 1976 he received the Dis-
tinguished Public Service Award for his work
as regional director of Virginia’s Bicenten-
nial Spruce-up Campaign. He is also the

15

 

J. F. Watlington, '33

recipient of the Distinguished Service to
Education in the Hospitality Industry Award
given by the American Hotel and Motel As-

sociation.
1928

In 1972 Dr. Netson W. Diepet of Grosse
Point, Mich., retired from medical practice
after 42 years. He now spends six months
each year in Delray Beach, Fla., and man-
ages to play three or four rounds of golf each
week.

GERALD F. Horine is retired from the Ford
Motor Co. He lives in Alexandria, Va., where
he is a member of the board of governors
of St. Stephen’s Boys School, the board of
directors of the Alexandria chapter of the
American Red Cross, and the Alexandria

Hospital Corp.
1929

In August, 1976, Dr. CHARLES V. AMOLE re-
tired from the practice of surgery after 38
years. On August 3, 1976, he married Anne
S. Kirley. The couple resides in Petersburg,

Va.
1930

L. PALMER Brown, president of L. P. Brown
Co. of Memphis, has announecd an affilia-
tion with Federal Compress & Warehouse,
also of Memphis and whose president is
Samuel B. Hollis, ‘51. The L. P. Brown Co.
is a leading distributor of packaging for
cotton balls in the Mississippi Valley. Brown
says the firm will continue to operate under
the same policies and direction as have tradi-
tionally been established. The expanded fa-
cilities and volume of business will en-
able the firm to provide the best possible
products and service to the customers.

Though partly retired, Dr. JoHN P. Davis is
working as consulting medical director for
Integon Life Insurance Co. in Winston-

Salem, N. C,
1932

HARRY J. BuRKE, a retired executive with
the National Biscuit Co., manages to spend
winters in the Barbados playing tennis. His
summer home is in Milford, Conn.

JoHN D. CLOTHIER JR. has retired from the
Colonial Williamsburg Foundation after 27
years of service.

ALLAN S. DELAND is retired and lives in
London, N. H..He continues an active life
with garden work, golf, and cross-country
skiing.

Dr. Epwarp E. FerGusoN has retired from his
practice of genitourinary surgery. He travels

16

RETIRES

John F. Watlington Jr., °33, retired as
president and chief executive of Wacho-
via Bank and Trust Co. on Dec. 31, 1976.
He joined Wachovia in November, 1933,
as a $50-a-month trainee and worked his
way up through the ranks to become
president in 1956. During his presidency
Wachovia's resources grew from $446
million to $3.3 billion.

considerably between Southwest Harbor, Me.,
the Bahamas, and Washington, D. C., his
hometown.

As a member of the Historical Commission
in Rockfort, Mass., Dr. WiLttiAM D. Hoyt
encouraged the listing of downtown Main
Street as a National Historic Place. He pre-
pared a pictorial history for the Town of
Rockfort as a Bicentennial contribution. He
represents Rockfort on the County Historic
and Scenic Preservation Commission.

Jupce H. W. MAcKENzIE JR., of Portsmouth,
Va., spends a lot of vacation time at Nags
Head, N. C. Nevertheless, he manages to re-
view several appeal petitions for the Virginia
Supreme Court.

1933
J. Frep Cook, for 30 years an executive with
Hamilton-Cook Hardware Co. in Waynes-
boro, Va., was a teacher-coordinator at R. E.
Lee High School from 1967-76. He is now
owner and operator of Cook Land Co. in
Waynesboro.

Joun A. WomMELporr, after 40 years in the
Presbyterian ministry serving churches in
Virginia, West Virginia and North Carolina,
has retired from the Orange Presbytery in
the Synod of North Carolina and will move
to Harrisonburg, Va.

1934

ROBERT BAILEY JR. is practicing law with the
firm of Bailey, Worrell & Viers in Pineville,
W.Va. Bailey and another W&L alumnus,
CLARENCE S. WorRELL, °34, started the firm
in 1947,

JupGe THORNTON G. Berry Jr. retired Jan. 1,
1977, as Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
of Appeals in West Virginia. He is now as-
sociated with the Charleston law firm of
Jackson, Kelly, Holt and O'Farrell.

Dr. Georce W. Price retired from his medi-
cal practice in Spartanburg, S. C., on July
16, 1976. He and his wife now live in Hen-
dersonville, N. C.

RicHARD SALE’s latest novel, The White
Buffalo, is now a film. He is presently writ-
ing another book, War Paint, and is making
his 37th movie entitled Empire—The Story
of Jaurez and Maximilian. Sale lives in
Beverly Hills, Calif.

JouHN F. SHRopeER, formerly in the building
supply business in Dorset, Vt., is now re-
tired and spends the winter months in
Naples, Fla.

1935

Bruce T. BULLION, a Little Rock, Ark., at-
torney, has been appointed chancellor for
the Ist Chancery District by Gov. David
Pryor. The Pulaski County Bar Association
presented him with the judge’s robes.

1936

After 40 years, STUART T. MILLER continues
with Western Electric Co. in Atlanta, Ga.

GRAHAM F. PAINTER and his wife Ruth cruis-
ed the Caribbean during January and Febru-
ary. They live in Charleston, W.Va.

FRANK L. Price was installed as_president-
elect of the Society of Former Special Agents
of the F.B.I. on Oct. 9, 1976, at the Society’s
23rd annual convention in Philadelphia.
A resident of San Diego, Calif., Price was
elected through a national mail ballot of
all former members of the F.B.I. He was a
member of the Society's board of directors
and executive committee for several years
and will automatically become president in
September, 1977, Price was in the F.B.I. from
1941-64. During his career he was chief of
the criminal section at. F.B.I headquarters
for many years. He was also special agent-
in-charge of F.B.1, field divisions at San
Diego, San Francisco and Honolulu prior to
his retirement in 1964.

After 30 years with federal service, BEN A.
‘THIRKIELD is retired and lives in Lake Worth,
Fla., where he “putters” in his garden and
enjoys his boat.

1937

Louis P. CASHMAN Jr. is publisher of the
Evening Post in Vicksburg, Miss.

Vicror R. LAVOLPE, a long-time correspon-
dent for Philadelphia, New York City and
Trenton, N. J., newspapers, won first place
in a 1976 sports news category from the Bur-
lington County Press Association and a
second place from the New Jersey Press As-
sociation,

Dr. WILLIAM C. WiLsur has returned to
Eckerd College in St. Petersburg, Fla., after
a semester of research in Oxford, England.

1938

THoMAs A. MALLoy Jr. is at Ferris State
College in Big Rapids, Mich., in the sociol-
ogy department. Between 1969 and 1975
Malloy was involved in the development of
social science, vocationally-related programs
in child care, social services and human serv-

 

 

USGA TREASURER
ohn L. (Ja k) Crist, "45, W&L trustee
.w chairman of the trustees De-
and ov Committee, lettered in golf
baseball) when he was a W&L stu-
sm nd his interest in golf continues
_, : .d. He is serving his second term
— of the United States Golf As-
Eon the ruling body of golf in the
a _. 1 le also serves on the 15-mem-
Be cecutive Committee that sets
SecA policies. The USGA and the
Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. An-
drews, Scotland, are the only two recog-
nized rules-making bodies in the game.
The USGA, among its other work, con-
ducts 10 national championship tour-

ices. He was also project director for the
state funded Juvenile Service Education
Study Committee.

SruarT M. ReyNotps and his son Dudley won
their third championship in the State of
Alabama father-son doubles tennis tour-
nament held in Birmingham.

VERNON T. STRICKLER has completed 25 years
in the general insurance business. He is
founder and president of the V. T. Strickler
Agency, Inc., of Hampton, Va.

W. SaxBy TAVEL, retired from the F.B.I.,
enjoys retirement in Naples, Fla. In_ the
summer he goes to Lake Dunmore in Ver-
mont.

Ear C. THOMPSON is senior Vice President
of marketing for the Atlantic Mutual Insur-
ance Co., of New York City. He has been
associated with the agency for 30 years.

Dr. CHARLFs M. WILLIAMS, a professor of
economics at Harvard, spent the fall of 1976
in Switzerland where he taught in Har-
vard’s International Senior Managers Pro-
gram. Williams teaches in the M.B.A. pro-
gram.

FRANK L. Price (See 1936.)

1939

Dk. ALEXANDER BLAIN was recently elected
president of the Detroit Racquet Club which
will celebrate its 75th anniversary this year.

WARREN H. EpwWarps, a practicing attorney
in Bonifay, Fla., was endorsed as an interna-
tional trustee by the state Kiwanis conven-
tion held in Jacksonville, Fla., in September,
1976. Warren is a past governor of the Ki-
Wanis and has been active at local, district,
and international levels for 28 years. He was
recently selected to serve as a member of the
prestigious Major Emphasis Committee for
1976-77. Edwards has been active in his pro-
fession and other civic organizations serving
4S president of the Orange County Bar As-
‘eciation, Orlando Players Little Theater
and Orange County Council on Alcoholism.
He is a retired colonel in the U. S. Marine
Corps. He and his wife Shirley have two
daughters and a son.

GEORGE C. KERR is employed as an executive
ah adjuster by GAB Business Services
ne., an independent insurance adjuster for
major property damage losses,

1940

JAMes 4. BieRER, president and chief execu-

i i

ere

 

naments a year, including the U.S. Open

and Amateur. Crist is also chairman of

both the Rules of Golf Committee. one
of the most influential positions in the
game, and the PGA Finance Committee.
He has been president of the Carolina

Golf Association and was chairman of

 

A

J. L. Crist, '45

tive officer of Pittsburgh Corning Corp., has
been named general chairman of the Boy
Scout Jamboree Committee of the Allegheny
Trails Council. More than 31,000 scouts and
some 8,000 adult leaders are expected to at-
tend the Jamboree August 3-9 at Moraine
State Park near Butler, Pa. Bierer, an Eagle
Scout himself, is a recipient of the Silver
Beaver Award of the Boy Scouts of America.
He attended the 1937 National Jamboree in
Washington and the World Jamboree in
Holland, also in 1937. He was chief of opera-
tions at the 1973 Jamboree.

JOHN S. BROOME continues in the agriculture
business. He is chairman of the California
Bean Growers Association. He is also active
in other cooperatives including Sunkist Gro-
cers. Broome is chairman of the local advisory
board of the Bank of America and is also on
the advisory board of the Automobile Club
of Southern California.

1941

FREDERIC B. FARRAR received a master’s degree
in history from Adelphi University in 1975
and shortly thereafter was elected to the
American Antiquarian Society.

KiAH ‘T. Forp Jr. is president of Columbia
Insurance Agency, Inc., the credit insurance
affiliate of Fidelity American Bankshares
Inc, of Lynchburg. He proudly records five
grandchildren.

1942
WILLIAM C, AMICK JR. is a representative of
New York Life Insurance Co. with offices in
Washington, D. C. He has constructed a
summer home in Ocean Pines in Berlin, Md.

After 30 years in the automobile leasing
business, JOHN Barrie JR. and his wife Gini
have purchased and now operate Snelling
& Snelling of Newport Beach, a large em-
ployment agency for placing people. The
Barries live in South Laguna, Calif.

1943

ALEXANDER M. MAIsH has earned a Ph.D. in
public administration from American Uni-
versity in Washington, D. C.

Fred TIT. MILLER is president and owner of
United Kennel Club, Inc., one of the oldest
and largest registries of full-blooded dogs in
the United States.

WILLIAM J. (BILL) NOONAN Jr. is president
of the Noonan Construction Co. in Pensa-
cola, Fla., which is engaged in building roads
in Florida, Alabama, Mississippi and Geor-

the Kemper Open in 1969 and 1970.
The next year he was chairman of the
executive committee of the U. S. Pro-
fessional Match Play Championship in
Pinehurst, N. C. A real estate and cor-
porate investor in Charlotte, Crist has
been chairman of the Charlotte Cham-
ber of Commerce Sports Committee and
is a trustee of Queens College.

gia. He serves on the board of directors of
the American Road Builders Association.
In 1975 Noonan was president of the Ameri-
can Concrete Paving Association and con-
tinues on the board. He is also a director of
the West Pensacola Bank, the Baptist Hos-
pital, the Fiesta of Five Flags, the City of
Pensacola Recreation Board, and an Elder
in the First Presbyterian Church. Noonan
continues his expertise on the golf course
and in tournament play.

Since graduation from W&L BERNARD pr
PiroG has been with the F.B.I. and antici-
pates retirement at the end of 1977. He and
his wife Eleanore have five children. The
family resides in Fair Lawn, N. J., where
Eleanore teaches in the local schools. Pirog,
a Navy pilot in World War II, continues to
fly and belongs to an active flying club.

1944

BEN P. BROWN is chairman of the board of
Union Trust National Bank in Parkersburg,
W.Va.

RICHARD ROCKWELL continues his law prac-
tice in Hartford, Conn. He and his wife have
three children. They manage to find time for
trips to Bermuda and for considerable tennis

playing.

KENNETH G,. PULLER is living in Arnold,
Md. He is manager, Account Executives,
Mid-Atlantic Area for Coca-Cola USA, a
division of Coca-Cola Co.

1946

BARTON P. QUAINTANCE, formerly manager
of exempt compensation, is now manager
of labor relations for duPont Co. in Wilming-
ton, Del. On June 18, 1977, he completed
20 years of service with duPont.

1949

Davin M. Bower Jr. is a furniture salesman
with territory in Ohio and Michigan. He
operates out of Sugar Grove, N. C.

Peter D. De Boer, currently in Richmond,
Va., has been assigned by duPont Co. to a
textile fibers manufacturing facility now
under construction in Isfahan, Iran, and an-
licipates moving to Iran in June, 1977. The
manufacturing facility, with Iranian part-
ners, will be known as the Polyacryl Iran
Corp. De Boer will function as materials con-
trol supervisor with responsibilities for the
purchase, receipt, storage, inventory control
and disbursement of all materials other than

17

 

JETS COACH
Walter E. Michaels, ’51, has been pro-
moted to head coach of the New York
Jets pro football team. Michaels was one
of the game's top linebackers with the
Cleveland Browns. He made All-Pro
four straight seasons from 1957 to 1960
and played on two NFL championship
teams. Michaels joined the Jets coaching
staff in 1963 as defensive coordinator.

finished products. The De Boers have three
children.

H. THORPE MINISTER JR. is a partner of the
McElroy-Minister Company, an_ insurance
agency in Columbus, Ohio. The firm, now in
its 10Ilst year, has just moved into a four-
story downtown office building. The insur-
ance firm is one of the largest firms in cen-

tral Ohio.
1950

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN is with the U. S, Em-
bassy, U. S. Information Service, in Bonn,
Germany. He was formerly with the U. S.
Embassy in Hague. He and wife Nancy have
three sons and one daughter.

NEAL E, MCNEILL Jr., after 25 years in pri-
vate law practice, is assistant city attorney
for Tulsa, Okla.

OLIVER M. MENDELL, senior vice president of
Chemical Bank in New York, was elected
president of The Fifth Avenue Association
at the meeting of the board of directors at
the Park Lane Hotel on Jan. 18. Mendell
joined Chemical Bank in 1957 and is cur-
rently in charge of the bank’s business de-
velopment program for the 252 branches in
the metropolitan area. He is active in many
civic organizations. He is a trustee of Citizens
Budget Commission; Board of Governors of
the Center of Banking & Money Manage-
ment of Adelphi University; a Fellow of
Brandeis University; and a trustee of the
Federation of Jewish Philanthropies,

BARTON P. QUAINTANCE (See 1946.)

195]

SAMUEL B. HOLLIs, president of Federal Com-
press & Warehouse Co. of Memphis, an-
nounced an affiliation with L. P. Brown
Co., also of Memphis, whose president is L.
Palmer Brown, °30. Hollis said that Federal
Compress has been researching methods of
improving bale packing and considered the
possibility of entering the bagging and tie
business. Instead, he noted, the merger with
L. P. Brown Co, would accomplish the pur-
pose and give them the benefit of “one of
the oldest and respected firms in the busi-
ness.”

The new chairman for Tampa’s Committee
of 100 for the year 1977 is Davin C. G. Kerr.
He is associated with the law firm of Mac-
Farlane, Ferguson, Allison & Kelly. He _ be-
came a partner of the firm in 1962 and the
managing partner in 1968. Kerr presently
serves as a trustee of the University of Tam-
pa, an executive committee member of the

18

 

W. E. Michaels, 51

Office.

Greater Tampa Chamber of Commerce, a di-
rector of the Atlantic Bank of Tampa, of
Smalley Transportation Co. and of the Tam-
pa Ship Repair & Dry Dock Co.

After 23 years with Burlington Industries,
VANCE RUCKER resigned in 1975 to do con-
sulting work and to write a book. Later that
year he was successful in publishing the
book, Slicing Your Money Pie, which de-
scribes a method of personal financing. In
early 1976 he became associated with Fried,
Krupp Inc., a textile machinery company in
the U.S. and Canada. The firm is an old
German company with a history in steel and
technical areas for textile machinery. The
Ruckers live in Greensboro, N. C.

1952

JouNn B. (JAY) HANDLAN has been appointed
president of H. L. Yoh Co., a division of Day
& Zimmerman, Inc., a_ Philadelphia-based
international engineering, construction, man-
agement and consulting firm. Handlan spent
10 years with the division which he started as
a production manager, He subsequently serv-
ed as vice president and director of per-
sonnel and senior vice president of the com-
pany’s eastern region.

THOMAS S. MILLER is vice president and
trust officer of Landmark Union Trust Bank
in St. Petersburg, Fla.

THoMAS R. WARFIELD is first vice president
of White Weld & Co., Inc. of New York City.

LesteR E, ZITTRAIN, an attorney in Pitts-
burgh, Pa., continues to represent a num-
ber of professional athletes including “Mean
Joe” Greene and Rocky Bleier of the Pitts-
burgh Steelers and “Pistol Pete” Maravich
of the New Orleans Jazz.

1953

MARRIAGE: Rosert S. GOLDSMITH and Bar-
bara Darden Greene on Dec. 18, 1976. Gold-
smith retired from Savings & Loan and is
now engaged in commercial real estate ven-
tures and investments.

WILLIAM E. Brock III was chosen national
chairman of the Republican Party. Brock,
a former Senator from Tennessee, succeeds
Mary Louise Smith of Iowa who stepped
aside voluntarily following the defeat of
President Ford,

WiLLtiAM M. HOLLIs Jr. is writing poetry,
painting and playing the piano. He also does
some teaching in Philadelphia.

RosBert W. LATIMER is a partner in a C.P.A.

Under him, the 1968 Jets led the AFL in
total defense. In 1972, Michaels left the
Jets to go with the Philadelphia Eagles.
He stayed there for three seasons before
rejoining the Jets in 1976. He will be in-
ducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of
Fame in ceremonies on Friday, April 22,
in Portsmouth. Tickets for the occasion
are available through the W&L Athletic

firm in Los Angeles, Calif. He is past presi-
dent of the Rotary Club of Huntington
Park, Calif., and a member of the board of
directors of the Chamber of Commerce.

THE Rev. CHARLES F. MCNutTT is rector of
Trinity Episcopal Church in Martinsburg,
W.Va. He and his wife Alice have two sons
and a daughter.

Dr. KENNETH B. Sizer is in private medical
practice in Danville, Va. He is also the assis-
tant medical director of Dan River, Inc.

RopNey F. Stock JR. has been commander
of police security for Reno International
Airport in Reno, Nev., since September,
1976. He and his wife have two children.

1954

Ropert E. BRADFORD, a former’ broadcast
newsman who has 18 years of experience
working with Congress, has been appointed
to direct government relations activities for
Food Marketing Institute of Washington,
D. C. Bradford, formerly manager of govern-
ment affairs for Firestone Tire and Rubber
Co., joined the F.M.I. staff on Jan. 3, 1977.
Bradford’s career in public affairs began in
1958 when he left a position as news direc-
tor of WMAL-TV in Washington, D. C., to
join the staff of U. S. Rep. Richard Poff
(R-Virginia). In 1968 he was named execu-
tive director of the Illinois Republican
State Central Committee. From 1971-73 he
was administrative assistant to U. S. Sen.
William E. Brock (R-Tennessee). Bradford is
also active in civic and community affairs.
He is a past president of the Jaycees, the
PTA Chapter in Alexandria, Va., Mount
Vernon Civic Association, and the Mansion
House Country Club. He has coached a
Little League baseball team and served as
steward in Mount Vernon Methodist Church.

HASWELL M. FRANKLIN was elected first vice
president of the Baltimore Life Underwriters
and Maryland chairman of the Million
Dollar Round Table’s membership _rela-
tions committee. He is a representative of
Massachusetts Mutual Insurance Co,

Robert O, GLAsiER has accepted a position
with Air Maze Co. of Cleveland as national
distribution manager.

BERTRAM S. GRIFFITH JR. joined Minolta
Corp. in September, 1976 as wholesale pro-
ducts manager in the business equipment di-
vision. He is responsible for marketing and
sales activity in Michigan, Indiana, Ken-
tucky and Tennessee. He lives in Glencoe,
Ill.

 

a

,

wa
4

 
 

. .

  

7. -

7 ’
4 Pe

  
 

W. E. Brock 11, ‘53

Dr. Rosert McGEEHAN has moved to Eng-
land because he has been appointed uni-
versity lecturer in international relations
at Oxford University.

Dr. RAvpu S. PARK, formerly in Elmira, N.Y.,
has moved to Staunton, Va., where he is as-
sociated with Dr. William C. Bronscome in
the practice of internal medicine,

Dr. Ropert O. PAXTON serves as chairman
of the history department at Columbia Uni-
versity. He has noted that another class-
mate, HENRY A. TURNER JR., is also serving in
this same capacity as chairman of the his-
tory department at Yale University.

Jerry G. SOUTH, corporate secretary of Bank
America Corp. and a member of the W&L
Alumni Board of Directors, has been ap-
pointed president of Bank America Mort-
gage Co., the holding company’s mortgage
banking subsidiary. South joined the bank
in 1958 and served as corporate counsel un-
til 1968 when he was named secretary. In
1970 he was named vice president and
executive assistant to the president.

Cart D. SWANSON of Harrisonburg, Va., has
been appointed to a four-year term on the
Virginia Board of Professional Counselors by
Gov. Godwin. He was awarded the Distin-
guished Professor Service Award by Madison
College.

1955

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip M. BERLING-
HOF, a daughter, Jennifer Terrill, on Nov. 26,
1976. Berlinghof is with Cargill Inc. in
Chatanooga, Tenn.

Since 1975 WittiaM H. Bartscu has been
ILO manpower planning advisor to the gov-
ernment of Indonesia. He expects to pub-
lish a book in 1977 entitled Employment and
Technology Choice in Asia Agriculture. He
also has an amateur interst in the _his-
tory of the Pacific War, 1941-45.

LAURENCE LEVITAN, an attorney in Chevy
Chase, Md., serves with the State Senate.

1956

In August, 1976, Vicror ROGER Bonp present-
ed a Paper entitled “Numerical Integration
of Nearly Hamiltonian Systems” at the Celes-
al Mechanics Colloquium of the Interna-
“onal Astronomical Union in Cambridge,
England. At the general assembly of the IAU,
'€ Was appointed a consultant to the Celes-

ti . eos
lal Mechanics Commission.

   
 

ome .
- . “oe 22
Yer ake
* aa! “
.**. > J! rcaz
. 2 ’ 4
oe fo ;
7

~ *

R. E. Bradford, ’54

  

JAMEs W. MARVIN Jr. just completed his term
as national president of the National Coun-
terintelligence Corps Association. He is now
president of the Delaware County Life Un-
derwriters Association. Marvin, a representa-
tive with Provident Life Insurance Co., lives
in Philadelphia.

1957

Lt. Cot. CHARLEs J. BALDREE is stationed in
Heidelberg and serves as an administrative
judge with the U. S. Army Board of Con-
tract Appeals of Europe. He has received
the Silver Beaver Award from the National
Council Boy Scouts of America. The Baldrees
have two daughters.

Harotp G. CUMMINGS Jr. has been elected
president of the Rotary Club of Washing-
ton, D. C.

JOHN D. Garson is on the board of trustees
of Mount Sinai Hospital in Cleveland, Ohio.
He is president of Garson-Blau, Inc.

DALE F. Guy is vice president of Hydrocar-
bon Trading and Transport Co., Inc. in
Houston, Texas.

H. Merritt PLaistep III, vice president of
Morton G. Thalhimer, Inc., of Richmond,
Va., was among those individuals selected to
appear in the 1977-1978 edition of Who's
Who in the South and Southwest. Plaisted
has been associated with Thalhimer since
1960. He is very active in business and com-
munity affairs and in 1975 served as presi-
dent of the Richmond Board of Realtors.
He has also served two terms as president
of the Virginia Chapter of the Society of
Industrial Realtors. Plaisted is the recipient
of the U. S. Jaycee Governmental Affairs
Award. In 1974 and 1975 he served as a
member of the technical advisory subcom-
mittee for land use for the State Air Pollu-
tion Control Board for the Commonwealth

of Virginia.
1958

After three years in Tehran, Iran, teaching
and serving as chairman of the division of
cultural history at Damavand College, W1~-
LIAM R. GOODMAN Jr. is back at Lynchburg
College as associate professor of religious
studies and advisor to Iranian students. He
also serves as institutional representative for
the Virginia Consortium for Asian Studies.

1959

BIRTH: Carr. and Mrs. PAut G. KNox, a
daughter, Monica Mary, on Sept. 24, 1976.
Knox has served as a staff officer at the U. S.

Army Infantry School in Ft. Benning, Ga.,
since June, 1974. He expects to be reassigned
to Germany in July, 1977.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Jere H. WILLIAMS, a
second son, Stephen Wesley, on April 4, 1976.

REGINALD K. Brack Jr. has been made as-
sociate publisher for Time. He and his wife
Barbara and three children live in Green-
wich, Conn.

CHARLES W. COoLe Jr. is vice president of the
First National Bank of Maryland and First
Maryland Bank Corp. He resides in Owings
Mills, Md.

IRVIN EBAUGH has been appointed executive
vice president of Bruning Point, and is gen-
eral manager of the company’s plant in
Baltimore, Md.

THOMAS D. Frith Jr. has been appointed
city attorney for Blacksburg, Va., and counsel
for the National Bank of Blacksburg.

Owen H. Harper has been named execu-
tive vice president of Crocker National
Bank and will direct the headquarters staff
in Southern California. Harper, who lives in
Los Angeles, has responsibility, as the resi-
dent senior corporate officer of the bank, to
coordinate the Southern California activities
of all the bank’s divisions.

WILLIAM K. HUuGHEs is assistant manager of
sales for U. S. Steel Corp. in the St. Louis
district office. He and his wife Sadie have
two sons.

In June, 1976, EvAN J. Kemp Jr. addressed,
the American Bar Association Conference on
variable annuities and variable life in-
surance on the registration and disclosure
developments under the Federal securities
laws with respect to variable annuity con-
tracts,

Bruce MacGowan is working for the pub-
lications department at Sarasota’s Memorial
Hospital.

DENNIS W. PATTON is a senior tax accountant
for Mack Trucks, Inc., and is the owner and
operator of an insurance and income tax
consulting firm. Patton and his family live
in Allentown, Pa.

GeorGE G, Ports has been appointed to the
newly-created position of director of public
affairs for the American Land Development
Association (ALDA) of Washington, D. C.
The association represents several hundred
companies with extensive real estate holdings
which are engaged primarily in the develop-

19
i i

 

P. G. Schmidt, ’61

ment of recreational, resort, and residential
properties. Potts will be responsible for
ALDA’s relations with Congress and various
state governments. He will also assume re-
sponsibility for ALDA’s consumer and media
relations. A former aide to two members of
Congress, Potts has been a government and
public affairs consultant to several associa-
tions, corporations and government agencies.
He recently served as a special consultant
for government and industry as liaison with
the rail services planning office of the In-
terstate Commerce Commission. He _ cur-
rently serves as the West Virginia State
Society's delegate to the National Confer-
ence of State Societies. In 1975 he was vice
chairman of the National Cherry Blossom
Festival Ball in the nation’s capital. He is
a member of several professional organiza-
tions.

1960

Dr. Davin N. Keys completed his military
service as assistant chief of otolaryngology
service at the Walter Reed Army Medical
Center. He was director of an instructional
course for all military ear, nose, and throat
residents at the Armed Forces Institute of
Pathology in Washington, D. C. Keys is now
in private practice in Roanoke, Va.

1961

Epwarp J. Gay III is general counsel for the
Hibernia National Bank in New Orleans, La.

A. DOUGLAS SALMON III operates and owns
a commercial real estate brokerage firm,
Doug Salmon, Co., in Baton Rouge, La.

Perer G. SCHMIDT is in Paris, France, work-
ing as the commercial director of Penn
Tennis Operations, a subsidiary of Gen-
eral Tire Plastics International Co. Schmidt
has been with Penn and General Tire since
1974 when the company expanded its tennis
marketing program in Europe. He formerly
served as an executive in the international
operations of the Beta Shoe Co.

Dr. JAMES ALLEN VANN III will complete
his term as associate chairman of the his-
tory department at the University of Michi-
gan in May, 1977, and will go abroad for
16 months as a Fellow of The Max Planck
Institute in Gottingen, West Germany.

Dr. CHARLEs S. WaAssuM III and family visit-
ed Sweden this past summer. He serves as
president of the Johnson City, ‘Tenn.,
branch of the Church of Jesus Christ of
Latter-day Saints and as chapter leader in
the John Birch Society.

20

1962

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM L. ROBERTS
Jr., a son, Stanley Abbott, on Nov. 22, 1976,
in London, England. The young man joins
two brothers and a sister.

RALPH L. ELIAs is assistant treasurer of
Odgin Corp. in New York City.

NORMAN R. FRrRissBig£, associate branch man-
ager of E F. Hutton and Co., Inc. in Wash-
ington, D. C., was elected to the board of
trustees at Randolph-Macon Academy in
Front Royal, Va. After serving four years
of active duty with the U. S. Army, Frisbie
was awarded the Army’s Commendation
Medal for meritorious service. An account
executive for six years, he is currently E. F.
Hutton’s regional director for tax sheltered
investments and has been a recipient of the
company’s “Blue Chip Sales Award” for
the past three years. He and his wife Bar-
bara have one son and the family lives in
Arlington, Va.

Lestie H. Pearp III is in the business sys-
tems marketing division of Eastman Kodak
Co. in San Francisco, Calif.

James A. Russ is president of Buffalo Con-
crete and Buffalo Sand and Gravel, divi-
sions of Joseph Smith’s Sons, Inc., of Wash-
ington, D. C. He and his wife and their
three children live in Upper Marlboro, Md.

1963

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. VANCE CAMPBELL,
a daughter, Eveline, on April 8, 1976. The
family lives in Dallas.

BIRTH: Mr, and Mrs. J. RicHARD UHLIG, a
son, Robert Dunlap, on Aug. 13, 1976. The
young man joins an older brother. Uhlig
is working for Maryland Properties Inc., a
subsidiary of McCormick & Co, Inc., an in-
dustrial real estate development firm in
Baltimore.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SHERWOOD WISE JR.,
a son, Sherwood Willing III, on Jan. 5, 1977.
Wise has spent two months on a research
cruise to the Antartic Ocean where he was
co-chief geologist on R/V Islas Oncadas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ASHLEY WILTSHIRE
Jr., a daughter, Carrie Chappell, on Aug. 20,
1976.

Tuomas G. ANDREW Jr., formerly in Indiana-
polis, is now vice president of Wells Fargo
Bank’s financial institutions division in San
Francisco. He is head of the correspondent
banking and savings and loan departments.

Warren B. Hucues Jr. has joined Cutler
Sign Advertising as vice president of mar-
keting and sales. He lives in Media, Pa.

E. Puoitie McCALes is serving on the “Com-
mittee of 100" to recognize the 100th birth-
day of the Virginia Department of Agricul-
ture and Commerce. He is also president of
the Eastern Shore of Virginia Independent
Insurance Agents Association.

Dr. E. B. Ostrorr is in the practice of urol-
ogy in Portsmouth, Va. He recently obtained
board certification in urology.

Hersert Tincey III has been elected execu-
tive vice president of Chesapeake Financial
Corp., a mortgage banking firm in Balti-
more. Tinley will assume primary respon-
sibilities for the company’s commercial and
multi-family loan operations. He began his
career with the firm in 1963 and was former-
ly an investment vice president. He also
serves on the board and its wholly owned
subsidiaries. He and his wife, the former
Dorrie Boone, have two daughters and the
family resides in Timonium.

1964

BIRTH: Mr, and Mrs. Howarp W. MAr-
TIN JR., a daughter, Hilary Elizabeth, on Jan.
21, 1976. The young lady joins two older
brothers and the family lives in Norfolk,
Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES F, URQU-
HART III, a daughter, Jill Claire, on Sept. 15,
1976. Urquhart is a practicing attorney in
Courtland, Va.

Dr. ARTHUR E, BROAbUs is assistant professor
of internal medicine at Yale University.

Britain H. BRYANT is a partner in the law
firm of Bryant, Costello, Curke & Scott in St.
Croix, Virgin Islands. In 1976 he was select-
ed as the Virgin Islands’ only member of the
American Law Institute. He has been re-
elected Democratic Senator for the third
consecutive time and is the vice president of
the Senate and chairman of the judiciary
committee,

Dr. Bruce T. CHosNey has begun the prac-
tice of hematology-oncology in Sacramento,
Calif.

Pau R. CocksHutr Jr., has resigned as
Sunday editor of The News and Observer to
accept a teaching position in journalism
at North Carolina State University in Ra-
leigh. He will continue to write a weekly
book column for the newspaper.

 

|. Lionet. Hancock III is president of the
hoard of trustees of Tidewater Legal Aid
Society, president of the parents and friends
association of Norfolk Collegiate School,
treasurer of Norfolk and Portsmouth Bar
Association, and chairman of the board of
Ghent United Methodist Church.

Dr. THoMAs C. Lewis has finished his intern-
ship and residency and is currently an in-
structor in internal medicine at the Medical
College of Virginia in Richmond.

Ropert L. WILLIAMS, his wife Lorene and
their daughter, are now in Sao Paulo, Brazil,
where Williams is treasurer of Ford Brazil,
the automotive affiliate of Ford Motor Co.
The transfer took place in May, 1976, and
they expect a three-year tenure in Brazil.
He writes that he is finding the work ex-
tremely interesting and challenging and that
the whole family is enjoying the exciting
new experience.

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, Davin H. Apams, a
daughter, Susanna Camp, on Aug. 8, 1976.
Adams is a practicing attorney in Virginia
Beach.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Brooks G. Brown III,
a daughter, Anne-Lamar, on June 8, 1976.
The family lives in Washington, D. C., where
Brown is an ophthalmologist.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GEORGE F. MADISON, a
son, Stewart Hamlin, on Dec. 3, 1976. The
family lives in Bastrop, La.

WALTER H. BENNETT Jr. is with the Char-
lotte, N. C., law firm of Casey, Daly & Ben-
nett. He and his wife have two sons.

Gustave R. Dusus III has recently published
an article in the Georgia Journal of Inter-
national and Comparative Law dealing with
the apportionment of fault in maritime
collisions. Debus is serving as vice chairman
of the section of international law of the
State Bar of Georgia.

GrEcory E. Euston is assistant manager of
the new Sears store in Houston, Texas.

Dr. Kian T. Forp III is on the diagnostic
radiology teaching staff of Walter Reed
Army Hospital in Washington, D. C. He ex-
Pects to enter private practice in his home-
‘own of Lynchburg, Va., in September, 1977.

FRANK Q. GLENN III is owner of the Ark
Restaurant and Lounge in Long Beach,

<a

Wash. He is also a director of the Bank of
the Pacific. He and his wife have two chil-
dren.

STEPHEN T. HisBarp is an institutional muni-
cipal bond salesman with White Weed Co.
in Boston. He and his family live in an old
nineteenth-century farmhouse.

ANDREW C. KILPATRICK is the federal court-
house reporter for the Birmingham News.
His wife Kay is a reporter for the Birming-
ham Post-Herald, They have two children.

EARL MAGpovitz is vice president of the
Imperial Manufacturing Co. in Memphis,
Tenn., a manufacturer of dining room furni-
ture,

After five years in the trust department of
the First National Bank of Atlanta, EUGENE
L. Pearce III has joined Citizens and South-
ern Investment Counseling as a portfolio
manager.

Max L. SHAPIRA has been elected to the
board of directors of the Liberty National
Bank and Trust Co, of Louisville, Ky.

‘T. Patron ApAms (See Cox, 1968.)

1966

MARRIAGE: CLAIBOURNE DARDEN JR. to
Ruth Wilson on May 26, 1976, in Atlanta,
Ga. Darden is president and founder of an
Atlanta marketing research firm, Darden Re-
search Corp. He and his wife sail ocean
racing boats and have joined the New York
Yacht Club.

MARRIAGE: GAviN RosBert GARRETT and
Mary Lynn Peterson, in Fort Worth, Texas.
The couple lives in Big Spring, Texas,
where Garrett is assistant administrative
manager for Cosden Oil & Chemical.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. S. Birnie HARPER,
a son, George Dodson. The young man joins
a brother and sister. The family lives in Ft.
Smith, Ark.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GRAyYson C. POWELL
JR., a son, Jeremy William, on Novy. 20, 1976.
Powell is an English teacher at Halifax
County Junior High School,

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM C. WaAsH-
BURN JR., a second son, Thomas Bell, on
Dec. 16, 1976. Washburn is a loan officer
with Fidelity American Bank Corp. in Lynch-
burg, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KEMBLE WHITE, a

daughter, Morgan, in November, 1976.
White, formerly with the L.R.S. office of
chief counsel, has formed a law partnership
in Dallas under the name of McDaniel &
White. The firm specializes in federal tax
matters.

SAM W. CoLeMAN III was elected by the
Virginia General Assembly to serve as Circuit
Court Judge in the 30th judicial circuit for
a term of eight years commencing July 15,
1975.

HArkY DENNERY, formerly sales manager for
Charles Dennery Co., a doughnut distribu-
tion firm in New Orleans, is now in Atlanta,
Ga., and is owner and operator of a distri-
bution business, Dennery’s Home Beverage
Delivery, Inc.

LesLie GRANDIS is a partner in the Rich-
mond law firm of McGuire, Woods and Bat-
tle. He and his wife Suzanne have two
children.

F. Scorr KENNEDY is an assistant professor
of biochemistry at Louisiana State Univer-
sity School of Medicine. He and his wife
Frances have two children.

Harris MASLANSKY has been made vice presi-
dent of Columbia Pictures,

ROBERT ORR JR. graduated from Vanderbilt
University School of Law in May, 1976. After
admission to the Tennessee Bar, he is now
engaged in private practice in Nashville.

CHARLES W. REESE JR. has joined the staff
of the Kaiser Cement & Gypsum Co. head-
quartered in Oakland, Calif.

1967

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, Tuomas C., Davis III,
a son, Adam Goodfellow, on Nov. 29, 1976.
Davis is serving as campus minister on the
ecumenical staff at Duke University.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RicHArp B. WALTERs,
a son, William Richard, on Oct. 8, 1976.
Walters is now associated with the law firm
of Fulbright and Jaworski after practicing
as a C.P.A. for several years with Haskins &
Sells.

GARRY APGAR, formerly a cartoonist with the
Roanoke Times and World News, is study-
ing at the Sorbonne in Paris and taking
courses in art and French literature. He is
also doing free-lance work with a cartoon in
Conrad Enchaire and in a monthly humor
magazine, Pilote.

W. Nat Baker received the M.B.A. degree
21

Class Notes

in finance from the Graduate School of
Business Administration at the University
of California at Berkeley in June, 1976.
Baker is currently working as a financial
analyst in the car product development
group of Ford Motor Co. in Dearborn,
Mich.

Capt. WILLIAM T. CUNNINGHAM is currently
assigned to the Staff Judge Advocate Office
Headquarters, 24th Infantry Division, at Fort
Stewart, Ga.

STUART FINESTONE has formed a new law
practice in Atlanta Ga. He is a partner in the
firm of Finestone & Cardon.

P. ROWLAND GREENWADE has been appointed
as the administrative aide to Senator Betty
Andujar of the Texas Legislature.

STEPHEN T. MCELHANEY has joined the
Cowan Actuarial Co., in Cincinnati, Ohio,
as second vice president and associate actu-

ary.
1968

MARRIAGE: Dr. PAaut Brower and Karen
Sears of Lafayette, Calif., in September, in
Los Angeles. Among the wedding party were
several W&L alumni including the groom's
father, Ned Brower, °42; brother, Scott
Brower, °70; and uncle, Robert Brower, ‘39.
Jim Livesay, '69, and David Fleischer, '66 also
attended. Brower is in his fifth year of a
six-year residency in urology at UCLA.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs W. BARTLETT,
a son, Matthew Archbold, on Dec. 3, 1976.
The family lives in Baltimore, Md., where
Bartlett is a practicing attorney.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. WILLIAM A. COLoM,
a daughter, Jessica Hope, on Oct. 15, 1976.
The family lives in Mystic, Conn.

W. Reip Cox Jr., who graduated from the
University of South Carolina Law School in
1975, is now associated with the law firm of
Graydon, Suber & Adams in Columbia, S. C.
T. Patron Ap ims, ‘65 is a partner in the
firm.

Larry E. Hepter is a partner in the law
firm of Burroughs, Simpson, Wilson, Hepler
and Broom in Edwardsville, Il. He and his
wife Sue have two children.

Pau NEVILLE, an attorney in Meridian,
Miss., served on the 1977 Inaugural Host
Committee for the inauguration of Jimmy
Carter as President and Walter Mondale as
Vice President.

Davip H. Apvams (See 1965.)
22

CHARLEs B. TomMmM (See 1975.)

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs, PHILip LEE HERNDON,
their second child, a daughter, Suzannah
Snively, on Sept. 29, 1976.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, J. Grey HEssoN, a
son, Brandon Grey, on June 28, 1976. The
family lives in Colonial Heights, Va., where
Hesson is engaged in the general practice of
law.

Ricks CARSON is preparing for preliminary
doctoral exams in comparative literature at
Emory University where he is also teaching a
humanities section during the winter term.

Louis K. COLEMAN is currently employed as
an assistant state’s attorney in Baltimore.

Mark R. EAKER has received the Ph.D. de-
gree from Stanford University and is now
teaching international finance and econom-
ics at Duke University.

EarL T. Epwarps Jr, is in his second year
as varsity basketball coach at the high school
in Lexington, Va. He and his wife have one
daughter Khristi Nicole.

Dr. WILLIAM T. FLEMING, a captain in the
Air Force Surgeon General's Office, is work-
ing with Tri-Service Medical Information
Systems. The program is involved with
developing and implementing standard, au-
tomated medical and administrative systems
for use in military hospitals.

RONALD M. Gates and PHILIP R. FARTHING,
‘73, are partners in the Norfolk law firm of
Boyd, Payne, Gates & Farthing.

WiLtiAmM B. GRAHAM JR. has been promoted
to the position of credit officer with the
Bank of Virginia-Potomac with offices in
Falls Church. Graham joined the Bank of
Virginia in Richmond in July, 1969, as a
management trainee. In April, 1970, he
transferred to Virginia Credit Corp. to assist
in formulating that new service. Since Feb-
ruary, 1972, he has been with Bank of Vir-
ginia Credit Corp. in Richmond as a cred-
it analyst.

W. DoucLas HALL, formerly in Boca Raton,
Fla., has moved to Bozeman, Mont., where
he is with the agricultural experiment sta-
tion at Montana State University. His work
involves ground and surface water hydrol-
ogy, water quality and geology associated
for the most part with coal mine spoils re-
clamation. He and his wife Pam have one
daughter.

MICHAEL J. HAWKINS, who spent two years in
the U. S. Army in Heidelberg, Germany,
graduated from the University of Virginia
Medical School and is currently doing resi-
dency training in internal medicine at the
University of Wisconsin Hospitals in Madi-
son.

JeRALD L. PERLMAN is a practicing attorney
in Shreveport, La. He and his wife Frances
have two children.

GARY SILVERFIELD has been elected vice presi-
dent of the Mercury Luggage Manufacturing
Co. of Jacksonville, Fla.

KEMBLE WHITE (See 1966.)

1970

MARRIAGE: Cuartes C. CAHN Jr, and Jane
Lisa Kosloff, on Sept. 19, 1976, in New York
City. Among those attending the wedding
were classmates Mark Evans, Ronny Sklar
and Paul Sugar. The couple lives in New
York where Cahn is a securities analyst at
Sanford C. Bernstein & Co,

MARRIAGE: W. JoserH Dozier Jr. and
Liddy Angier on Aug. 28, 1976 in Flat Rock,
N. C. Among the wedding party were class-
mates Tom McJunkin, Ken Cribb and Gary
Murphy. Dozier is now assistant district
attorney for the 26th Judicial District of
North Carolina. He also serves as president
of the W&L Charlotte Alumni Chapter.

MARRIAGE: Davio L. Hutt and Karen E,
Choate on June 19, 1976, in the Community
Church of Yosemite National Park. Phil
Herndon, 69, was a member of the wedding
party. Hull, who received the M.B.A. degree
from the University of Southern California
in June, 1976, is an assistant controller with
the Bekins Co. in Los Angeles. He is also
a member of the faculty at California State
University, teaching an undergraduate
course in management accounting.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. B. WAvUGH CRIGLER,
a son, Jason Campbell I, on Jan. 22, 1977.
The young man joins an older sister. Crig-
ler is a partner in the law firm of Lea,
Davies, Crigler and Barrell in Culpeper, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, JAMES J. WINN JR. @
daughter, Lacy, on Sept. 13, 1976. The
family lives in Baltimore where Winn prac-
tices law.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. HARVEY WISE, 4
daughter, Andrea Susana, on Feb. 18, 1976.

RicHARD B. ARMSTRONG has recently moved
to New York City where he is a national

 

banking officer working in Wachovia Bank’s
New York representative office.

Joun D. (JAcK) BatzLtey has received his
\.B.A. from Wharton School of the Univer-
sity of Pennsylvania and works for Ticor
Mortgage Insurance Cv. He is married to
the former Susan Hughes and they live in
Swickley, Pa.

Bruce A. Meyers is working for the Arizona
Department of Transportation in Phoenix
as a state planner. His wife is a member
of the faculty at Arizona State University.

Norwoop O. Morrison has accepted a posi-
tion as personnel manager of Cecil I. Walker
Machinery Co. in Charleston, W. Va. He
started in that position in December, 1976,
after spending six years with the American
Electric Power System—the last two as per-
sonnel supervisor of its River Transporta-
tion Division.

Micuaet C. G. NEER is the basketball coach
at the University of Rochester which is in
Division III of the NCAA.

CLINT PALMER is presently working toward
the M.F.A. degree in film production at
the University of Southern California and is
fixing up a loft in an old warehouse as a
studio and living place.

WILLIAM A. VAUGHAN, who for the past six
years has been in the environmental law
section of the legal staff of General Motors,
was recently named director of energy man-
agement of the manufacturing staff for Gen-
eral Motors. Vaughan is also adjunct pro-
fessor at the University of Detroit, teaching
a4 course in environmental law.

CHARLEs R. YATES JR. is now an assistant vice
president with the Citizens and Southern
National Bank in Atlanta, Ga., and man-
ager of the bank’s business development
department.

CHARLEs F. Urquuart III (See 1964.)

197]

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FRANK G. DAVIDSON
Ill, a son, Frank Gassaway IV, on Dec. 7,
1976. The family lives in Lynchburg, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs, S. STACY EASTLAND,
4 son, Seaborn Gardner, on Nov. 23, 1976,

Houston, Texas. The young man joins an
older sister,

BIRTH: \ir. and Mrs. Rosin P. HARTMANN,
: daughter, Katherine Polk, on Oct. 26,
6. Hartmann is practicing law with the

Dallas firm of Haynes & Boone.

CHARLES ANDREWS is enrolled in the M.B.A.
program at George Washington University
in Washington, D. C.

NELSON BRINCKERHOFF is currently teaching
fifth graders in the Virgin Islands at The
Antilles School.

CHRISTOPHER C. Dove has joined the adver-
tising staff of the Sentinel Newspapers in
Maryland.

After finishing his residency in internal
medicine in June, 1977, Dr. CHRISTOPHER
FRIEND will return to the University of Vir-
ginia for a two-year fellowship in cardiology.

Henry A. HARKEY is engaged in the pri-
vate practice of law in Charlotte, N. C.

HvuGH HILt is in his first year of law school
at the University of Virginia while his wife
continues her residency in dermatology at the
Medical College of Virginia.

JOHN M. McCAarbELt Jr. is assistant professor
of history at Middlebury College in Middle-
bury, Vt. He received his doctorate from
Harvard on Nov. 15, 1976.

Capt. G. Lee MILLAR is in the U. S. Army at
the Defense Language Institute in Monte-
rey, Calif. Millar has been appointed batta-
lion commander in Troop Command Bri-
gade.

BARRY W. MITCHELL is now in his third
year of medical school at the State Univer-
sity of New York in Buffalo.

WALTER G. (Bos) Pettey III graduated from
the University of Alabama Law School in
May, 1976, and is presently clerking for
Judge Walter P. Gewin, U. S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit in Tuscaloosa,
Ala. Pettey was married in February, 1976,
to Virginia Lott of Daphne, Ala.

‘T. JEFFREY SALB, who graduated from In-
diana University Law School in May, 1976,
is now engaged in the private practice of
law in Norfolk, Va.

Dr. R. BALFouR SARTOR is in his last year of
residency in internal medicine at Baylor Col-
lege of Medicine Affiliated Hospitals in
Houston. He and his wife Emily have one
son.

J. Grecory TINAGLIA is president of Insur-
ance Advisory Services, Inc., an insurance
consulting firm in Roanoke, Va. He was re-
cently awarded the C.L.U. degree.

PAUL WILBER recently returned from a _ two-
month Rotary-sponsored trip to New Zea-
land. Wilber is a_ practicing attorney in
Salisbury, Md.

In a special election held in August, 1976,
BRADFIELD F. WRIGHT was elected to the
Texas House of Representatives. On Nov. 2,
in the general election, he was re-elected to
a full term.

CuLiFFoRD L. WALTERS (See 1976.)

1972

MARRIAGE: JOHN WILLIAM Rosinson IV
and Ellen Wilson Showalter, on Dec. 28,
1976, in Winter Park, Fla. Robinson is cur-
rently serving as a captain in the U. S$. Army
Judge Advocate General Corps in Mainz,
Germany.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRApLey G. Boone, a
son, Jonathan, on Dec. 29, 1976. He joins
an older sister, April, who is three years old.
Boone, having received a doctorate in physics
from the University of Virginia, is now
teaching there.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LELAND C. CLEMONs,
a son, Leland C. Jr., on Sept. 12, 1976. The
family lives in Dallas where Clemons is with
the First National Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRIAN S. GREIG, a
son, Travis, on Oct. 6, 1976. The family
lives in Houston where Greig is associated
with the law firm of Fulbright and Jawor-
ski.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Bruce R. HANKINS, a
daughter, Alaina Lynn, on Oct. 27, 1976.
The family lives in Bridgeton, N. J.

BIRTH: Cart. and Mrs. PAuL A, ROBBLEE
Jk., a daughter, Jessica Campbell, on Aug.
23, 1976.

MAx BRANTLEY has recently been promoted
to assistant city editor of the Little Rock
Arkansas Gazette.

RALPH D. CALDRONEY is serving an intern-
ship at the Medical University of South
Carolina.

Timotuy D. A. Curiss, who graduated from
Catholic University Law School in May,
1976, was admitted to the Maryland Bar
and is practicing law in Baltimore.

Bruce Cusson is working as assistant store
manager of the Outlet Dept. Store in War-
wick, R. 1. He and his wife have a new son,
Craig Michael.

23

Class Notes

Ropert P. Forey is field manager for the
St. Louis district sales office of Ford Motor
Co. and is the company representative to
19 Ford dealerships in southern Illinois.

B. C. (BEN) Gricssy II has recently joined
Kidder, Peabody & Co., Inc., in New York
City as a U. S. government bond trader.

JAMes Harvanp is currently serving in the
U. S. Navy stationed at the Navy Regional
Dental Center in Orlando, Fla. He graduat-
ed from the Medical College of Virginia
School of Dentistry in May, 1976.

Joun E. Lawtor, who graduated from the
University of Florida School of Law in 1975,
is an attorney with the Internal Revenue
Service in Jacksonville, Fla.

ANDREW L. PHAuP JR. is currently going
through transition training to the P-3 air-
craft. In June he will report to VP-6 at
Barbers Point, Hawaii, for three years. He
was married in October, 1975, to Leslie
Crocker of Pensacola, Fla.

After three years with the newspaper divi-
sion of Media General, Inc., a diversified
communications group based in Richmond,
Va., RIcHARD SpLitrorF has taken a sales
and marketing position with Garden State
Paper Co., Media General’s newsprint manu-
facturing subsidiary. He is currently assign-
ed to the West Coast division, in San Diego,
Calif.

PuHitip E,. STACKHOUSE was promoted re-
cently to senior mortgage officer by the First
National Bank of Maryland. He and his wife
and son live in Baltimore.

Terry TYLER is a trust officer for Citizens
Fidelity Bank & Trust Co. in Louisville, Ky.
He is in his third year of law school at the
University of Louisville, evening division.

CHARLEs L. WHITE is assistant trust officer
of Society National Bank of Cleveland, Ohio.
He and his wife and son live in Chesterland.

1973

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE M. CROFT,
a son, Lawrence M. Jr., on Jan. 23, 1976.
The Crofts live in Columbia, S. C. where he
is a practicing attorney.

Gates G. BRELSFoRD recently received a mas-
ter’s degree in international management
from the American Graduate School of Inter-
national Management in Glendale, Ariz.

JouHn Dumas, who graduated recently from
the University of Alabama Medical School, is

24

taking special elective courses in neurology
in London and gastroenterology in Edin-
burgh. He and his wife will return to the
United States in the summer of 1977 when
Dumas will begin an internship.

RONALD T. Gop is currently stationed at
the Marine Corps Air Station in Yuma, Ariz.,
where he is assigned as chief defense coun-
sel and legal assistance officer. He expects to
be released from active duty and to enter
private law practice by the end of 1977.

J. JASON MATTHEWS is working in Washing-
ton, D. C., as an analyst and editor for a
combined analysis group from the Dept. of
the Army and the Dept. of State. In addi-
tion, he is still managing his family’s vaca-
tion schooner cruise business in Mystic,
Conn., during the spring and summer and
in the Chesapeake Bay in the fall.

WILLIAM D. MILLER has begun a two-year
master’s degree program in urban and re-
gional planning at Virginia Polytechnic
Institute and State University in Blacksburg,
Va.

Tell us!

James E. PATTERSON is engaged in private
law practice in Ellsworth, Me. He is also
part-time assistant district attorney for
Hancock and Washington counties in Maine.

After graduating from T. C. Williams Law
School in 1976, Grecory B. ROBERTSON is
practicing labor law with the Richmond
firm of Hunton & Williams.

Davip G. TRAYLOR has left Army active duty
after three years of service and has entered
the University of Georgia to gain certifica-
tion to teach.

KENNETH J. WERNICK, after serving three
years in the Judge Advocate General's Corps,
began the general practice of law on Jan, 3,
1977, with the firm of Farley, Harrington
and Sickels of Fairfax, Va.

After working a year in Australia and New
Zealand, Grorce B. WOLFE entered law
school at the University of Pennsylvania
in 1974. This past year he was editor of the
Law Review. The January, 1977, issue of the
Law Review will carry an article by him en-

YOU ARE NOW A REPORTER FOR W&L. Please send us news of yourself so that we
can pass it on through the magazine to your W&L friends. AND REMEMBER, DON’T
MAKE A MOVE WITHOUT LETTING US KNOW. Every address change provided
by the Post Office now costs 25 cents. We could go broke at that rate. So please send
your correct address and news to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University,

Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

 

Name Class
Address

City State Zip
News Item

 

 

 

titled “Tax Treatment of Gifts of Stock in
a Liquidating Corporation.” This summer
he will be a law clerk for the Honorable
Donald Russell, U. S. Court of Appeals,
Fourth Circuit.

FARTHING (See Gates, 1969.)

1974

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE H. FrAam-
me III, a daughter, Jessica Marie, on Dec.
18, 1976. Framme is a practicing attorney in
Richmond, Va.

Poiuie R.

Vircit O. BARNARD IIT, who holds the M.B.A.
degree from the University of Kentucky, has
recently joined the Kentucky Department
of Revenue as a field auditor working to-
ward devising a system of valuation for un-
developed mineral resources, particularly
coal.

Witson E. BLAIN is teaching English and is
advisor for student publications at Berry
Academy in Mt. Berry, Ga.

Davip C. CAMPBELL JR. is now living in Eng-
land and working in the London office of
Stewart and Stevenson Services. He sells die-
sel and gas turbine-powered equipment in
Europe and the Middle East.

NorMAN D. Facce left active duty with the
U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in Septem-
ber, 1976, and is now working toward the
M.S. degree in geology at the University of
Kentucky.

Bruce N. Gorpin is in his last year of law
school at Cleveland-Marshall College of
Law at Cleveland State University. He is on
the Law Review,

STEPHEN M. Hacey is currently enrolled in
post-graduate courses in journalism and
broadcasting at the University of Tennessee
in Knoxville and is employed by the Hyatt
Corp,

AVERILL HARKEY is in his first year of law
school at Wake Forest University.

STEPHEN E. HEINECKE has been appointed to
the government contracts division of the
American Management Association and_ is
headquartered in Washington, D. C.

JEROME FE. KELLY has been assigned to Fort

Meade, Md., as chief of the Defense Coun-
sel Branch.

WILLIAM R. LAROsA Jr. is in medical school
at Tulane University,

Larry N. Nau has been elected business

i

development officer for the Central Na-
tional Bank of Richmond, Va. He initially
joined the bank as a management intern,
and in August, 1975, was elected marketing
officer. He then had a brief association with
General Mills, Inc. in Minneapolis, Minn.,
as a marketing assistant. He rejoined Central
National Bank in October, 1976.

WILLIAM H. SANDERS JR. is in his senior year
of law school at the University of Kansas
and plans to enter private practice in Kansas
City upon graduation.

DRAYTON N. SMITH is an art instructor in
the upper school at Porter-Gaud School in
Charleston, S$. C. He is also assistant varsity
football and track coach and director of
Riverbank Players, the school theatre group.

After two years on the audit staff of Haskins
and Sells, C.P.A., in their Richmond, Va.,
office, CHARLEs E. Taytor has become a
certified public accountant and has begun
courses in the school of law at the University
of Virginia.

JOHN TimotHy THOMPSON is employed by
United Virginia Bank/National as branch
officer of the McLean, Va., office. He is mar-
ried to the former Anne Darden Wilson.

Amos A. WoRKMAN graduated in January
from the University of South Carolina Law
School. He was recently inducted into the
scholastic honorary society Order of Wig &
Robe.

PAUL WILBER (See 1971.)

1975
MARRIAGE: Joun R. Picciotti and Jane

Wainwright on Aug. 21, 1976. RiIcHARD
AMRHINE, "75, was in the wedding party.

Rospert H. CRAwForp has just completed re-
quirements for the M.A. degree in French
at the University of Texas at Austin.

SAMUEL L. DUMVILLE II is in his second year
of law school at William and Mary in Wil-
liamsburg, Va.

Joun R. Embree is the tennis professional at
Boonsboro Country Club in Lynchburg, Va.,
for seven months out of the year. During the
balance of the year he travels a great deal.
He recently returned from a tennis safari
to the Sugar Circuit. He anticipates a month
of skiing before going to Florida to play on
the Watch Tennis Circuit.

RANDY L. FLINK is enrolled in the M.B.A.
program at the University of Michigan and

was recently selected to be included in
Who’s Who Among Students in American
Universities and Colleges.

CARLYLE GREGORY JR. is currently serving as
congressional aide to U. S. Rep. Paul S.
Trible, ‘71L. Gregory is in charge of the
district office on Virginia’s Eastern Shore.

CHRISTOPHER J. HABENICHT is engaged in the
private practice of law in Richmond, Va.
He was formerly law clerk to Virginia Su-
preme Court Justice A. Christian Compton,
‘BOA, ’53L.

VERNON F. OTTENRITTER JR. is presently en-
rolled in the University of Maryland Dental
School.

T. O. Rainey III is presently a second-year
law student at the Marshall-Wythe School
of Law at the College of William & Mary,
where he is the managing editor of Amicus
Curiae, the law school newspaper.

THomas B. RAMey III spent the 1975-76
school year as assistant director of admis-
sions at Washington and Lee. He is current-
ly serving as youth intern for Highland
Park Presbyterian Church in Dallas, Texas.
He plans to enter the seminary this fall.

CHARLES B. ToMM is engaged in the private
practice of law as an associate with the New
York City firm of Winthrops, Stimson, Put-
nam & Roberts.

Since graduation DUNCAN WINTER has been
working on Wall Street in New York. He
was a trader on the Commodity Exchange
and for the last year has been a corporate
bond trader with Shields, Model & Roland.
Winter passed his examination to become a
registered representative. He is also pursuing
an M.B.A. degree at night school at Adelphi
University Graduate School of Business.

J. Grey HEsson (See 1969.)

1976
MARRIAGE: Atrrep D. B. (Dick) PHILLIPS
and Laura Wall, in Princeton, N. J. The
couple lives in Lynchburg, Va., where
Phillips is selling municipal bonds for Hor-
ner-Barksdale Co.

Ernest W. Bartvetrt III is employed by
Bankers Trust Co. of New York City. He is
a management trainee in the international
department.

Ben Reep Barton is at the University of
‘Tennessee Medical School at Memphis. Dur-

25

 

ing the summer he worked as a surgical as-
sistant at the Texas Heart Institute in
Houston.

Davip R. BRAUN is a marketing agent with
the firm of Borges, Patton & Ogden in Mil-
waukee, Wis., an independent insurance
agency.

DouGLas W. Darsy is an agent with Equit-
able Life Insurance Co. in Frederick, Md.

Gary T. FitTzGERALD is in graduate school
at Northwestern University in Evanston, IIL.
pursuing an M.A. degree in marketing and
finance. He was elected to the graduate
management association’s board of gover-
nors.

DouGLas P. Foster is currently employed by
Coopers and Lybrand in New York City.

MARK E. GEorGE is now enrolled in the
Southern Methodist University Gr«:‘uate
School of Business, Dallas.

JouN L. Gray Jr. is teaching fourth through
seventh grade English at the Busey School,
a branch of Woodward Academy in River-
dale, Ga. He spent last summer traveling
in Europe.

Rosert J. Grey JR. accepted a position in
the Appellate Court Branch of the National
Labor Relations Board in Washington, D. C.

Puitie HANRAHAN is in the Ist Infantry Di-
vision at Fort Riley, Kans.

WittiAM E. Hoatson Jr. is working for
Jefferson Standard Life Insurance Co. in
Baltimore, Md.

Harotp R. Howe Jr. is a first-year medical
student at Bowman Gray School of Medi-
cine in Winston-Salem, N. C.

After spending six months as a machine
tender with Georgia Bonded Fibers, Inc., in
Buena Vista, JoHN B. KEEFE is in the as-
sistant manager’s program with Household
Retail Services, Inc. of Richmond, Va.

DoNALD R. KEMPTON JR. is liaison engineer
for Kenworth Truck Co. in Chillicothe,
Ohio. He and his wife have a daughter,
Ryan Elizabeth.

JULIAN (JAY) NexseN is a first-year law stu-
dent at the University of South Carolina.

STEPHEN R. STRAWSBURG is pursuing a mas-
ter’s degree in marketing and finance at
Northwestern University in Evanston, Il.
He and Gary FITZGERALD are rooming to-
gether.

26

PauL L. VAVALA has been named a personal
banker at the Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.
in Greensboro. He joined Wachovia in July,
1976, as a trainee in Winston-Salem and was
transferred to Greensboro in November.

Davin S. WALKER has joined Massachusetts
Mutual Life Insurance Co. with the Robert
E. Clancy Agency in New York City.

CuiirForp L. WALTERS is a member of the
Florida Bar and is engaged in the private
practice of law in Bradenton.

J. ArtHUR Woop III is attending Columbia
Theological Seminary in Decatur, Ga. He is
married to the former Lynne Carpenter of
Bethesda, Md.

 

 

In Memoriam

 

 

1908

Ropert J. REVELEY, a longtime educator,
died Oct. 13, 1976. Reveley was in the public
school system for many years and was prin-
cipal of high schools in Hickory, Knoxville,
and Canton, N.C. He retired from active
teaching in 1947.

1912
FRANCIS J. HEAZEL, a retired Asheville, N.C.,
attorney and civic leader, died Jan. 18, 1977.
Heazel practiced law in Roanoke, Va., and
Kingsport, Tenn., prior to opening his office
in Asheville, in 1922, While in Kingsport, he
served as city attorney from 1917-21. He was
active in civic and industrial affairs and was
a vice president of the Asheville area Cham-
ber of Commerce and was associated with
the United Fund in which he held virtually
every office. He was also a past president
of the Asheville Industrial Promotion Coun-
cil and was noted for his devoted service to
hospitals and related work. Heazel was the
firs’ man to be named an honorary mem-
ber of the Junior League. A former director
and secretary of the Madison Square Garden
Corp., he was named president in 1959. He
was also a former director of Metropolitan
Casualty Insurance Co, in New York and
Forman Realty Co. in Chicago. A past presi-
dent of the North Carolina Bar Association
he had been a member of the Sinking Fund
Commission and the National Park, Park-
way & Forest Commission of North Carolina.
Heazel was instrumental in the location of
the Blue Ridge Parkway through the Ashe-
ville area to Cherokee. Perhaps his source

of greatest pride came near the end of his
life when he provided the legal assistance
and drew the legal instrument providing that
the Samuel E. Beck Collection of museum
pieces be controlled by the tribal council
representatives of the Cherokee tribes and
the Cherokee Historical Association trustees.

JoHN KEARNEY SPEED, a widely known cotton
broker of Memphis, Tenn., died Dec. 3, 1976.
He was a past director of the Memphis
Cotton Exchange. For many years Speed
represented the nationally known brokerage
firm of Thomson, McKinnon, Auchincloss &
Kohlmeyer. During World War I he served
in the Royal Air Force and in World War II
was a captain in the Army Air Force and
served in North Africa.

1914

CARLISLE HAveLocK Morrissetr of Rich-
mond, Va., who presided over the State De-
partment of Taxation and the Virginia Tax
Policy for 44 years and who designed many
of the laws on which the Byrd political or-
ganization was based, died Dec. 2, 1976.
Morrissett was nicknamed the “wizard of
tax” for his knowledge of the code and
ability with figures and was also known for
his persuasive powers with the Senate and
House Finance Committees. He practiced law
privately for a short while in Lynchburg, Va.,
before becoming counsel and researcher in
1914 for a state commission working on the
revision of the Virginia Code that was pro-
duced in 1919. He was credited with much
of the work that resulted. He did not leave
state service until he retired in 1970. In 1919,
Gov. Westmoreland Davis appointed Mor-
rissett director of the Legislative Reference
Bureau, predecessor to the present Division
of Legislative Services from which he draft-
ed more than 4,000 bills. Gaining a reputa-
tion for skill in legislative drafting, he was
tapped by reform Gov. Harry F. Byrd Sr. in
1926 to organize and direct the first State De-
partment of Taxation, a post he held until
his resignation. For many years, he taught a
Sunday school class at Seventh Street Chris-

tian Church.
1915

CHARLES MCCLUNG SWITZER, a retired execu-
tive with E. I. duPont de Nemours, died Oct.
28, 1976. Switzer began with E. I. duPont in
1915 and at one time was assistant manager
of the nylon division. He retired in 1952 and
at the time of his death lived in Mount

Dora, Fla.
1918

ROGER STARNES, former owner and operator

 

 

 

of the Bain Hardware Co. in Chicago, IIL,
died Nov. 29, 1976 at his home in Engle-

wood, Fla.
19292

ARCHIBALD ALEXANDER SPROUL, a former
executive with Vanadium Corp. of America,
died in September, 1976, in Golden, Colo.

1923

GARLAND ALEXANDER Ork, a resident of Gulf-
port, Miss., for many years, died Dec. 16,

1976.
1924

CAMERON EDWARD SHROPSHIRE, a retired con-
tractor and real estate development execu-
tive, died Dec. 31, 1976 in Fort Worth,
Texas. He was owner and operator of the
general contracting business, Shropshire In-
dustries, Inc., of Fort Worth. He held direc-
torships in Taylor-Todd Corp. and in Worth
Builders Inc. During World War II, Shrop-
shire served in the Far East and in the Pacific
under Gen. MacArthur and with the 5th Air
Force Division. He held the rank of captain
in the Air Corps.

1925

Water Waite Woop, a former mayor of
Roanoke, Va., and a member of the Vir-
ginia House of Delegates, died Jan. 14, 1977.
Wood served as town attorney for Vinton
for 33 years and also served as vice chairman
of an advisory board to the juvenile and
domestic relations court. He had served on
the boards of the old Roanoke Hospital,
Salvation Army and the former Community
Fund. He was a veteran of World War I.

1926

RALPH MASINTER, an attorney of Roanoke,
Va., died Dec. 10, 1976. Masinter was active
in Democratic party politics and was a dele-
Sate to the 1964 National Democratic Con-
vention. He was a past chairman of the
board for Beth-Israel Synagogue and was
Seneral chairman of National Brotherhood
Week in 1962. He headed the United Jewish
Appeal fund drive in 1965. At one time he
practiced law in New York. He returned to
Roanoke in 1956 and had been active ever
since. Masinter was a 32nd-degree Shriner

and was listed in Who’s Who in the South
and Southwest.

WILBERT Rep STEELE, retired foreman and
€xecutive with Hercules Corp. at the Rad-
ford Ordnance Works in Radford, Va., died
Jan. 22, 1977. Prior to his association with

€rcules, Steele had other business experi-

ences with the Norfolk and Western Railway
of Roanoke and the Ford Motor Co. of Nor-
folk.

Dr. JOHN RODEN VAN BwREN, a physician in
Benicia, Calif., died Nov. 26, 1976. Van
Buren served as a member of the school
board in Benicia for many years.

1927

RIcHARD J. LYON, a former vice president of
Mercantile Bank in Jonesboro, Ark., died
Feb. 17, 1976. Prior to joining the Mercantile
Bank in 1962, Lyon had been with the State
Employment Service for 24 years. At the time
of his retirement from the Mercantile Bank
he held the position of vice president. Lyon
was secretary for the Downtown Lions Club
for 20 years and secretary of the adult de-
partment and a member of the First Baptist
Church.

JAMES WARREN RAWLINGS, founder and presi-
dent of Rawlings Oil and Tire Co. in Green-
ville, S. C., died Nov. 19, 1976. Rawlings was
a member of the Goodfellows Club, the Fur-
man University Paladin Club, and the Senior
Golfers of South Carolina, Inc,

1929

Joun E. (Buck) BAILey, a retired life insur-
ance salesman and office manager for Ameri-
can National Life Insurance Co., died in
Longview, Texas, Aug. 4, 1976. He had been
a resident of the Longview area for 18 years
after moving there from Dallas. During
World War II, Bailey served as a major in
the U. S. Air Force. He was a member of the
Life Underwriters Association and was the
chairman of the Cancer Crusade sponsored
by the association.

SCHUYLER HARRIS FLOYD, an insurance claims
manager of Jacksonville, Fla., died Aug. 21,

1976.
1933

WILLIAM VERNON PorTER, a long-time educa-
tor and teacher, died Aug. 16, 1976, in El
Centro, Calif.

WALLACE WERBLE, editor and publisher of
FDC Reports and a Washington, D.C., civic
leader, died Dec. 29, 1976. Werble had found-
ed FDC Reports, a weekly newsletter on the
pharmaceutical, cosmetic and related indus-
tries in 1939. It became known as The Pink
Sheet because it was printed on pink paper.
Later he expanded his activities to pub-
lish drug research reports, weekly pharmacy
reports, and medical devices, diagnostics and
instrumentation reports. Werble had been

associated with health organizations in the
D.C. area for many years and primarily
with the Children’s Hospital. He had been
president and chairman of the hospital board
from 1964-70 and was a member at the time
of his death. He was also on the board of
the Children’s Hearing and Speech Center
and the Hillcrest Center for Emotionally
Disturbed Children. He was a former mem-
ber of the board of the National Association
for Mental Health. Werble was vice chair-
man of the psychiatric services panel of the
Washington Health and Welfare Council, a
former member of the National Health
Council and former chairman of the Blue
Cross-Blue Shield liaison committee of the
Hospital Council of the Metropolitan Wash-
ington area.

1934

ARTHUR TALMAGE GUNN JR., who retired in
September, 1976, and had been associated
with The Daily Advance and the Lynch-
burg, Va., newspapers since 1940, died Dec.
23, 1976. After graduation, Gunn first was
employed by the R. J. Reynold’s Tobacco
Co. in Danville. He began his newspaper
career in 1935 as editor of the Altavista
Journal where he remained until 1937. He
then became assistant editor of the Hope-
well News and at the same time served as
secretary of Hopewell’s Chamber of Com-
merce. He came to Lynchburg in 1940 as a
reporter for The News. He served in the
U.S. Army during World War II and re-
turned to Lynchburg in 1945 and served as
city hall and political reporter on The News.
He became city editor in September, 1946,
and held that position until December, 1957,
when he was named assistant editorial page
editor of The News and The Daily Advance.
He held that position until he was named
editorial page editor of The Daily Advance
in 1958. Following his death, the editorial
page is quoted as saying ‘““He was an excel-
lent newsman ... . he was, in short, a true
professional — a credit to W&L’s journa-
lism school.”

Hupson CLARK HALL, an automobile dealer
and businessman, died Jan. 3, 1977, in Ashta-
bula, Ohio. He was a former employee of
General Motors Acceptance Corp. in Youngs-
town and later was a Pontiac dealer in
Conneaut. More recently, Hall had _ been
affiliated with Miller Pontiac agency in
Cleveland and the Jerry Sinkler Ford agency

in Ashtabula.
1941

JAMEs Ware GARDINER, a co-producer of
theatrical plays both on and off Broadway,

27

 

died Nov. 5, 1976, at the Nevada Memorial
Hospital in Las Vegas. During his career,
he co-produced Are You With It in 1945,
Plain and Fancy with Alexis Smith and Craig
Stevens, and a 1957 revival of the Ziegfeld
Follies with Beatrice Lillie. He also brought
the Roland Petit Ballet Co. from Paris for a
debut on Broadway. At the time of his death,
his residence was in New Canaan, Conn.

1943

WARREN Moore STUART, a former executive
with Belden Mfg. Co. of Chicago, IIL, died
Feb. 29, 1976. Stuart was a group vice presi-
dent with Belden Corp. and in 1973 was
named “Electronic Man of the Year.” He
was a director and governor of the Electric
Industries Association and served as _ presi-
dent of the organization from 1969-71. Stuart
was also a director of the Manufacturers
Council of National Automotive Parts As-
sociation. Stuart was also chairman of the
board of Electrical Specialty Co. and chair-
man of the Complete-Reading Electric Co.

1944

JOHN SEBASTIAN DERR JR., who recently retired
from his position as a U. S. Army research
physicist at Edgewood Arsenal, died Dec. 11,
1976, at his residence, Dearbought, near
Frederick, Md. As the proprietor of Dear-
bought, he maintained the residence where
the Derr family has lived since 1754. From
1951 to 1972 Derr did research at the U.S.
Army Biological Laboratories at Ft. Detrick.
He served as deputy chief of the biophysics
research branch from 1963-72 when he was
transferred to Edgewood Arsenal. Derr was
an expert in the application of optics and
acrosol physics to the design and evaluation
of smoke-generating systems for defense pur-
poses. In addition to commendations for
outstanding service as a researcher and tech-
nical manager, he was awarded the Depart-
ment of the Army Meritorious Civilian Serv-
ice Decoration in 1969. Active in civic af-
fairs, he was an assistant scoutmaster, taught
in Sunday School at the Evangelical Re-
formed United Church of Christ, served as a
judge of student science fairs in Frederick
and as a member of the Francis Scott Key
Post No. ll American Legion.

195]

JAMEs CHARLES MOOREHEAD JR., Who was em-
ployed as an investigator for the U.S. Civil
Service Commission, died Jan. 4, 1977, in
the Phoenix Veterans Hospital. At the time
of his death he was a resident of Scotts-
dale, Ariz.

28

 

Help us round up
these lost alumna

The Alumni Office does not have correct addresses for the alumni listed below.

Please check the list carefully. If you know the addresses of any of these alumni,
send the information to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450. Additional lists of lost alumni will be published later.

Ernest W. Bartlett III, °76
Richard F. Faulkner, °34
Owen G. Harned Jr., °56
William P. Harper, °25
Pinckney Harral, ‘29
Henson C. Harrell, °27
Calvin T. Harrington, ‘65
Elliott B. Harris, °25
John T. Harris, ‘06
Alfred Harrison, ‘61
John L. Harrison, ‘16
Leo J. Hart, ‘14

Leonard L. Harvey, °35
Ernest W. Harwood, ‘18
Norman R. Haskell, °38
Stewart A. Hatch, '36
David P. Hauseman, “46
Donald D. Hawkins, ‘07
Hinman B. Hawks, °43
Charles G. Hayden Jr., ‘59
Jesse R. Hayes, °37
William G. Haynes, ‘51L
Peter M. Hazell, °45
James J. Heatley, °35
William D. Hector, ‘40
Harry E. Heinitsh III, ‘58
Arthur M, Helfat, °32
Joseph Hellen Jr., °25

F. Fox Henderson Jr., "63
Parks A. Hendry, °53
Stephen M. Henkin, ‘68
Robert F. Henofer, °38
Anders S. Henricsson, ‘67
James A. Henriksen, ‘73
B. Allen Henry Jr., ‘44
Raymond W. Henry, ‘51
Erwin O. Hentz Jr., °55
Richard M. Herman, ‘63
John A. Herring, ‘51
Oscar H. Herring, ‘11
Alva L. Herzog, ‘06
Charles R. Hess II, °58
John C. Heuer, ‘32
Massillon M. Heuser, '29L
Wallace M. Heuser, °54
Henry J. Heymann, ‘56
William T. Higgins, °17
Norman F. Hill, °35
William R. Hill, °54
John P. Hills, ‘60L
Curtis L. Hillyer Jr., ‘62
William L. Hilton Jr., ‘65
Walter F. Hindry, ‘21

J. Payne Hindsley, "72
John C. Hisley, ‘60
Lewis J. Hixson, ‘74

Charles C. Hobson, °57L
Kaam M. Hoh, °27

Barry L. Holcomb, ‘66
Gerold I. Holen, ‘51
William N. Holloway Jr., '29
Gregory L. Holmes, ‘70
John B. Holt, ‘60
Samuel G. Holt, ‘12
Anton E. Homsey Jr., °57
John E. Hopkins, ‘60
Jacob M. Horn, ‘13

Guy F. Horton, ‘23
Walter K. Horton Jr., ‘26
Alan G. Hoskins, '40
Gordon W. Hostetter, °38
Henry B. Houck, ‘29
Thomas E, Houston, ‘46
Brian C. Howard, °74
Glenn W. Howard, ‘23
Harold H. Howard, '29
Merton T. Howard, '39
Wilbur B. Howell, ‘29
Charles B. Howry Jr., ‘06
John C. Hudgins, ‘02
Robert D. Hudson, °34
David S. Hulbert, ‘68
Robert G. Hundley, ‘15L
James R. Hunt, ‘71
Robert K. Hunt, °26
Charles E. Hunter Jr., "71
Russell A. Hunter, '23
William H. Hunter, °35
Philip C. Huntley, °35
Bruce L. Huntwork, ‘51
Mason M. Hurd, ‘19
William D. Hurley, ‘65L
Robert L. Hylton, '60
Robert J. Jaber, °57
Whitfield Jack Jr., °58
David E. Jackson, °72
Ralph H. Jackson, °47
Benjamin R. Jacobs, '63
Rolly W. Jacobs, ‘68
Richard A. Jaeggi, '75
Kenneth E. Jansen, ‘65
Robert S. Jaster, '45
Edwin L. Jean, °36
James T. Jenkins, "29
William H. Jennings, °17
Leigh H. Johns, ‘08
Alexander S$, Johnson, °23
Bernard F. Johnson, °33
Frederick K. Johnson, 58
George C. Johnson, ‘19
James H. Johnson Jr., "47
John W. Johnson, ‘63L

Leslie H. Johnson, 55
Richard V. Johnson, 68
William G. Johnson, "70
Francis M. Johnston, "46
Sidney F. Johnston, '24
Albert S. Jones, °33
Asbury W. Jones, ‘69
Dace W. Jones Jr., '55
Orlando T. Jones Jr., ‘05
Robinson C,. Jones III, °47
Arthur M. Joseph, ‘48
Avery B. Juhring, '58
William A. Julian, ‘65
Peter N. Junggren, "72
Timothy D. Junkin, "73
Irvin Karlan, "34
Richard K. Kearns Jr., '66
Charles M. Keeling, *44
Artus A. Keener, ‘10
John F. Keener, ‘11L
James C. Kellam, ‘18
William P. Kellam Jr., 50
Fred Keller, ‘15

Albert C. Kelley, °23
Robert E. Kelley, °55
Warren N. Kelley, '29
Brian R. Kelly, '67L
Donald G, Kelly, ‘16
Lowry S. Kelly, °58
Richard L. Kelly, "62
Francis D. Kendall, °25
George Kerns, ‘14
George R. Kerr, ‘18
Willard C. Kidd, ’21L
John A. Kiely, "63
George H. Kim Jr., '58
James B. Kimbrough, °33
Arnold S. King, °34

Carl King, °42

Edward C. King Jr., "67
James R. Kirby IV, ‘68
Norris S. Kirk, °27

Hugh H. Kirkparick Jr., "25
Sidney Kirsch, °37
Conway N. Kitchen, ‘17
Estes B. Kizer, ‘11

Harry E. Klein, '14L
John W. Kline, 30
David C. Knight, *62
Edwin A. Kogut, ’63L
Stephen H. Koleszar, ‘68
William H. Koon, '60
Robert E. Kowalski, 63
Charles L. Krebs, ‘10
Thomas M. Krook, ‘62
William C. Kupfer, '52

 

 

 

 

No library is complete without...

The 1975 Alumni Directory

The Indispensable Reference Book
For Every Washington and Lee Alumnus

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni Direc-
tory, 1749-1975, is now available at only $5.00 a copy,
including postage. The unique feature that distinguishes
this directory from past editions is that the 1975 issue
was produced by a computerized method.

The directory has three sections:

Alphabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since
1749 is listed alphabetically, together with his class, his
degree, his address, and his occupation.

Class List—A full list of the members of each class, in-
cluding degree holders and non-graduates, appears in
this section.

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by
cities within these states as well as in foreign countries.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be with-
out this valuable reference book in his home or office.
Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send me............... copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, including postage. Check
is enclosed.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

Alumni Directory
1749-1975

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
Published by
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI INCORPORATED

1976

 

 

 

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip

ALLEN—ETHAN 31 LLB (1925-31X) WILLKIE FARR
& GALLAGHER 277 PARK AVE NEW YORK NY 10
017 LAWYER,PARTNER  WILLKIE,FARR,GAL-
LAGHER q

ALLEN—EUGENE K * 31 (1927-28)

ALLEN—FREDERICK M 43 BA (1939-43) MA GEN.
ERAL DELIVERY TAOS NM 87571

ALLEN—G WILLIAM JR 69 BA (1965-69) 30 MAN.
OR DRIVE HUDSON OH 44236 LAW STUDENT
OHIO NORTHERN

ALLEN—G ASHLEY 65 BS (1961-65) PHD 130
BURNETT OR SPARTANBURG SC 29302 DIR ¥
DEV DEERING MILLIKEN RES CORP

Sample
Alphabetical
List

Entry

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450 VY 7

(Pos

 

werain

In the next issue

It was a hot winter for W&L athletic
teams. The basketball Generals finished
the regular season 23-3—its best on
record—was ranked fourth nationally in
the NCAA Division III, won the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship, and then fell in the first round
of the Division III South Atlantic Re-
gional Tournament. The season brought
Coach Verne Canfield 203 career vic-
tories at W&L and the team a 17-game
winning streak—another record. The
wrestling team finished 10-3 and won the
ODAC title. The swimmers completed
their dual meet season at 6-3 and had
seven individuals qualify for the na-
tionals. The indoor track and field finish-
ed as runner-up in the ODAC meet. Full
coverage of the winter athletic scene will

  

a »

 

 

 

appear in the next issue of the magazine.
At press time, thoughts were turning to |
spring and lacrosse. The lacrosse sche-
dule (home games in capitals) follows:
MARCH 5 DUKE :
March 9 Virginia Tech ‘
MARCH 12 MT. WASHINGTON
MARCH 19 KUTZTOWN STATE 7
MARCH 22 BOWLING GREEN }
MARCH 25 NAVY ;
April 6 Hofstra
APRIL 9 N. C. STATE
> ees April 13 North Carolina
“ Se ’ — April 16 Towson State
ee APRIL 23 VIRGINIA
APRIL 30 MARYLAND |
May 4 Roanoke 4
Junior guard Pat Dennis, All-American candidate May 7 Rutgers
with a 22.2 average per game, takes a shot against MAY 14 PENN STATE

Lynchburg College.

 

 

 

ae a ee ee ee eS ee ee

 

