 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university MARCH 1979

FANCY DRESS, 1979

 

 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 54, Number 2, March 1979

William C. Washburn, ’40 ................0006- Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ...............05. Associate Editor
Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, ’77 ............--. Assistant Editor
Joyee Carter oe. el ee eee Editorial Assistant
Sally Mant 2... iN sta ee eee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Junkin Memorial Exhibition .......................0005. 1
Investigative Reporting Workshop ...................5 6
Fancy Dress, 1979 soi ssas a ee 8
WEL Gagéile ei oe 12
Stuart’s Nabokov: 4i5050 2 cae 15
Red Fox/Second Hangin’ ...........cceceeeeeeeeeeeeee ees 18
Rowland Nelson & Esmarch Gilreath ................ 19
WE, Men ie ce ine Bas ie 20
Chapter NeWS ...........ccecececececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenenenes 22
Class Notes .......cccccsencsececesceccceberrseseecbecdaonens 24
In Memoriam .............cc eee eee eee eee ee eeeeeeneeeeees 32

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpDwIn J. Foitz, 40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
Vice President

RICHARD A. Denny, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. Donan Bain, ’49, Spartanburg, S. C.
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, ’51, Nashville, Tenn.
Joun H. McCorMack Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, ’64, Houston, ‘Texas
PauL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

ROBERT M. WuirteE II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

ef>

+,

ON THE COVER: Clapsed lovers’ hands, “I-Love-
New York’ stickers, and formal wear no less grand than
that in “The Tales of Manhattan’—all bespeak the
theme of Fancy Dress, 1979: “A Taste of the Big
Apple.” The consensus of the revelers was that this was
the “best Fancy Dress yet.” For more scenes from this
outstanding collegiate event, turn to page 8.
Photograph by Sally Mann.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

A memorial exhibition tracing more than Junkin, Robert E. Lee’s immediate

 

four decades of painting and sculpture by predecessor as president of Washington
the late Marion M. Junkin took place this College (which became Washington and
: winter at the University. Lee).
Junkin, who died June 18, 1977, was the On view were 42 works of art or series

founder in 1949 of Washington and Lee’s of works by Junkin, beginning with finely
fine arts department and taught studio art _—_ detailed etchings of Washington and Lee

 

and art history courses at W&L until his campus scenes which were published in

. : retirement in 1973. He was head of the art _ the Calyx in the year of his graduation
department until 1968. through his late-period watercolors, the

He had also founded the art department __ last of which he painted in 1970.

at Vanderbilt University in Nashville, and Included in the exhibition were 17
taught there for eight years before watercolors, 13 oil paintings, a set of five
returning to Lexington and Washington sketchbooks, three woodcuts, three
and Lee. He was a 1927 graduate of W&L __ etchings, two lithographs, and three
and was a descendant of Dr. George sculptures, two in wood and one of bronze.

1

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Junkin was also noted for his fresco
murals, which were represented during an
exhibition ceremony at which a 15-minute
film about his career was shown. The film
was made almost 20 years ago by O. W.
Riegel, then head of W&L’s journalism
department. |

A 32-page illustrated catalogue of the
exhibition was also published by
Washington and Lee.

Organizer of the exhibition and principal
author of the catalogue was Dr. Pamela
Hemenway Simpson, assistant professor of
art history. This year’s was the fourth in a
series of winter exhibitions she has
mounted annually to mark important W&L
and Lexington art resources.

Nineteen of the Junkin works in the

2

exhibition are reproduced in black-and-
white in the catalogue, and the cover
shows a 1963 watercolor of a harbor scene
in full color. The catalogue also contains a
biographical essay by Simpson, an
appreciation of the artist by W&L
President Robert E. R. Huntley, a
commentary by James W. Whitehead,
curator of W&L’s Reeves Porcelain and
Herreshoff collections, and margin
comments taken from Junkin’s 1955
Biographical Notes and from the
reminiscences of some of his former
colleagues.

After graduation from W&L with a
degree in history, Junkin went to New
York City, where he studied at the Art
Students League under the famed painter

Top: The late Marion M. Junkin, founder of the
WUL fine arts program. Directly above: At the
exhibition in duPont Gallery, from left, Dr.
Pamela Hemenway Simpson, assistant art hsitory
professor (organizer of the Junkin memorial
exhibition and principal author of the
catalogue); Margo Patricia (Patsy) Junkin, Prof.
Junkin’s daughter; and Marguerite Eddy Junkin,
his widow.

Opposite top: First Robin—oil, 1941, 26 in. x 36 in.
(From the Junkin family collection.) Below: Auto-
biography—oil, 1944, 30 in. x 40 in. (From the
Junkin family collection. )

 

 

 

 

George Luks and others.

He taught at the old Richmond School of
Art, now a part of Virginia Commonwealth
University, from 1934 until leaving in 1942
to establish the art program at Vanderbilt.

Throughout his lifetime, his paintings
were widely exhibited at such museums
and galleries as the Corcoran, the
Whitney, the Chicago Art Institute, the
Carnegie Institute, the Pennsylvania
Academy of Fine Arts and the 1939 New
York World's Fair. He won three prizes in
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
competitions in the 1930s.

He began working in fresco painting in
the 1950s, and his murals in that medium
are located in Richmond, Memphis and
Lexington.

4

In 1949, when he arrived to found
Washington and Lee’s art department,
Junkin was awarded an honorary
doctorate. The citation described him as
“an artist whose discerning eye has
perceived beauty and whose knowing hand
has created it . . . a teacher with a zeal to
share the satisfactions of the world of art.”

Among the notable paintings in the
W&L exhibition is First Robin, singled out
for praise by Life magazine in 1941.
Another is his whimsical Autobiography
(1944), in which Junkin shows himself
balancing the demands of teaching,
painting and family life against backdrops
of his professional environments—
Washington and Lee, New York City and
Nashville.

 

Above: Moonlight—watercolor, 1939, 21 in. x 30
in. (From the collection of the Virginia Museum
of Fine Arts, Richmond. )

Opposite: The Colonnade, one of Marion Junkin’s
six “Views of the Campus,” published in the
1927 Calyx—etching, 1927, 4% in. x 7 in. (From
the Junkin family collection. )

 

 

 

 

Copies of the exhibition catalogue,
Marion Montague Junkin: 1907-77, are
available from the W&L Bookstore,
Lexington, Va. 24450, for $1 postpaid.

 

 

 

by Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, ’77

A GALAXY OF JOURNALISTS

Workshop for Investigative Reporters Brings 8 Pulitzer-Prize Winners to Campus

Eight Pulitzer Prize-winners and 150
journalists and college students from
throughout the east and south took part in
a major conference at Washington and Lee
in February on investigative reporting.

The three-day Investigative Reporters
and Editors (I.R.E.) workshop was
organized by W&L’s Clark R. Mollenhoff,
himself a Pulitzer recipient (1958) for his
investigations into labor racketeering.
Mollenhoff joined the W&L journalism
faculty as professor in 1976 after 25 years
with the Des Moines (Iowa) Register and
Tribune as Washington, D.C.,
correspondent. He is a member of the
Board of Directors of I.R.E.

Washington and Lee, of course, was
the first institution in the United States to
offer academic training for journalists,
when Robert E. Lee. president of what
was then called Washington College,
established a series of “press scholarships”
in 1869. By 1925 the University had
developed a full Department of Journalism
and Communications through an
endowment created by the Southern
Newspaper Publishers Association.

Robert W. Greene of Newsday on
Long Island, past I.R.E. president,
opened the conference in Lee Chapel and
set the tone for many subsequent speakers’
remarks. Speaking on the topic “Freedom
of the Press,” which he defined as “a
simple doctrine—exempt from
government control,’ Greene paraphrased
James Madison's warning: “In a free
nation, rights are not lost overnight; they
are gradually nibbled to death.”

“Our craft keeps—and should always
keep—sacred that temple,” Greene
declared. “Freedom of the press is
absolute.

“Information need not be true—though
we Strive to be accurate. Opinions need
not be correct—though based in fact. Our
essential premise is: We have a
professional responsibility to be right, but a
Constitutional right to be wrong.

“But because we have become, bigger,
better and more pervasive, and because
our reporters have become infinitely
better educated, trained and paid, we are
threatened now as never before. We must
answer— Who are we? What are we doing?

6

Dick Cady, a Pulitzer Prize-winner with the In-
dianapolis Star, and Tom Miller, with the Hunt-
ington (W. Va.) Herald-Dispatch, during a session
on “getting the records and keeping the record.”

What do we hope to achieve?”

During the next two days, the
“eminent snoopers,” in the phrase of W&L
journalism department head R. H.
MacDonald, sought answers to those
questions.

While discussing their own experiences,
they attempted to construct guidelines for
others to follow. Panel topics and
participants ranged from “planning the
investigation’ (Jack Driscoll of the Boston
Globe, Charles Thompson of ABC News’
“20/20,” and Greene) through “probing
state and local government” (Jerry O'Neill
of the Globe, Anthony Dolan, Pulitzer
winner with the Stamford, Conn.,
Advocate), “Washington investigations”
(Dan Thommason, bureau chief for
Scripps-Howard Newspapers, John Fialka
of the Washington, D. C., Star, and
Norman Brewer of Gannett News Service);
TV investigative reporting (James R. Polk,
Pulitzer winner when he was with the
Washington Star and now with NBC
News, current president of I.R.E.) to
“getting the records and keeping the
record’ (Pulitzer winner Dick Cady of the

 

Indianapolis Star and Morton Mintz of the
Washington Post).

There was a session too on ethics,
moderated by Dr. Louis W. Hodges of
Washington and Lee. He is head of the
University’s professional ethics program.
Among his panelists were A. E.
Fitzgerald, the U.S. Air Force cost analyst
who lost his job—temporarily—for
whistle-blowing, and Marvin Stone of U.S.
News and World Report.

There was general agreement on
procedures for getting and filing notes. But
there was no consensus on such questions
as source protection and the reporter's
right to withhold notes.

During a session on state and local
government, Dolan of the Stamford
Advocate named judicial activism as the
investigative reporter's greatest enemy.
The question then arose of the extent to
which a reporter should be expected to
assist or cooperate with law enforcement
officials.

The Globe’s O’Neill declared that a
reporter should not volunteer to cooperate
with anyone. “We are not extensions of
law enforcement agencies,” he said. “They
have subpoena power; they don’t need
your help.”

Dolan’s rebuttal: Though the point is
well taken, in some instances the reporter
“has to become” the focus of officials’
attention. “I do not cooperate with
agencies, but with people. And there are
some dedicated prosecutors.”

In a provocative luncheon talk, Jack
Anderson declared that “too many”
journalists today “are becoming creatures
of their keepers.”

“The state department reporter,” he
said, “often begins to look like the foreign
diplomat, wearing tweed jackets and
puffing on a pipe. The Pentagon reporter
often comes home looking like he just got
off maneuvers. Each, in turn, begins to
write critical stories of the other. Often
this does give us good stories—but in a
strange way.

“Press spokesmen are hired to lie to us;
they are expected to lie,” Anderson said.
“There is not one of them who does not lie
professionally. I would fire a reporter who
would depend on Jody Powell as a news

 

 

Jack Anderson, principal luncheon speaker at I nvestigative Reporters and Editors conference, and
Clark R. Mollenhoff, Pulitzer Prize-winning investigator who is now teaching journalism at WUL.

 

 

 

 

 

+S ae : SSS ASSESS

 

 

At the I.R.E. conference, (left to right), Dick Krantz of WHAS-TV, Louisville; James R. Polk, president
of I.R.E., of NBC News, Washington; Ed Alwood, reporter for WTTG (Metromedia), Washington,
D.C., and Hampden H. Smith of the WeL journalism faculty.

source. We dont call Powell and ask what

is happening—we call to tell him what is
happening and ask if he has a comment.”

Again, disagreement.

Later that day, in the session on
Washington investigations, the Star's
Fialka commented: “Not all public
relations people lie. Nine times out of 10
they just don’t know the truth.”

During his wide-ranging address,
Anderson ripped into the Carter
administration and its attitude of what he

called “almost inflexible” moral certainty.

Carter gives the impression, Anderson
said, that he has a direct line to God. And
when you have that, he said, “you don’t
have to pay much attention to Cyrus
Vance.”

At one point Anderson described
Carter as “an inexperienced President
relying on inexperienced counselors.”
That, Anderson declared, is the “big story”
of White House coverage.

Anderson described the role of his own

 

‘

syndicated column, “Washington Merry-
Go-Round,” as “a news service covering
the shady side of the street.”

During the balance of the weekend, it
became evident that a significant problem
for reporters themselves is defining how
they should act and to whom they should
feel responsible.

During the ethics session, there was
predictable agreement that concern for
fairness must be the key to journalistic
decision-making. Marvin Stone of U.S.
News asserted that the use of innuendo is
crippling the credibility of reporters
among the American public and the
courts. “With the use of innuendo,” he
said, “many journalists sent Rockefeller
out of this world on a banana peel. And
many ask—these reporters expect First
Amendment rights?”

The Air Force’s Fitzgerald—who
claims to have gotten fair treatment from
the media during his 10 years “on the
roster of four Presidents”—agreed. “Find
out what the true gluttons of privilege are
up to, he said. “That’s what the public
wants to know. But be accurate, and be
fair. If a reporter is fair, there is nothing to
criticize.” _

When a participant in the ethics
session questioned the panel about
whether it is proper to report information
he read in a memo on a press spokesman’s
desk while the spokesman was out of the
office, Fitzgerald rejected the notion that
the government has a “right” to property
when it comes to information at all. The
“right” to that information was indeed the
reporter s—and the public’s, Fitzgerald
said.

“But it is a form of eavesdropping,”
interjected Hodges of Washington and
Lee.

“That's what we are paid for,” Greene
rejoined.

Throughout the I.R.E. workshop, the
question of what a reporter does to get his
story seemed to narrow down to a personal
sense of ethics.

Plato quoted Socrates as saying “The
life which is unexamined is not worth
living.” Who would have supposed that
20th-century journalism would take up the
banner of the philosopher?

 

 

A powerful searchlight marked the place. The six-foot Fancy Dress ball itself.

 

Bandleader Lester Lanin had beanies for eager Fancy Dressers.
There was romance everywhere . . . ... and pulchritude.

 

 

They boogied in the hallways . .

 

oS ss ‘tee

]
More than 1,400 couples took “a taste of
the Big Apple” in March at the anrjual
Fancy Dress Ball, which yet again’
underscored its reputation as the
“outstanding collegiate social event in the
South,” in the phrase of the New York
Times many years ago—in the country,
period, in the phrase of this year’s
partygoers.

Since its revival four years ago, Fancy
Dress has become the focus of the whole
year's social activity at the University.
Alumni flock to it. (They came this year
from Houston, from New Haven, from
Chicago, from New Orleans—from
everywhere, it seemed, W&L has alumni.)
Students began preparing for it almost as
soon as classes began after the Christmas
holiday. They even, some professors
report with undisguised astonishment,
prepared class assignments far in advance
so as to clear the entire Fancy Dress week
for play.

Lester Lanin and his big band provided
the music this year—the most danceable in
the past several Fancy Dresses. (That
verdict was nearly unanimous, and says a
great deal about Lanin; his recent
predecessors have included the likes of
Woody Herman and the Jimmy Dorsey
orchestra.) The students decorated Evans

 

... and a gang of godfathers hovered around Central Park.

 

 

They were exuberant on the dance floor. . .
. and pensive in private places.

 

 

 

Some loved other places more than New York.

 

 

Student Body President Beau Dudley crooned with Lanin. Hula dancers entertained in “Trader Vic's.”
Cheek-to-cheek is chic again.

 

Hall within an inch of its life as usual; this
year, they even had a huge illuminated sphere
outside. (The Fancy Dress ball, of course.)
The main dance floor—under more
ordinary circumstances, the dining hall—
was decorated as the Ballroom of the
Waldorf. The coatroom was done up as
Central Park. The Cockpit (W&L’s
sandwich-and-beer place) was Trader Vic’s,
and exotic and not-so-exotic dancers
tripped, or lumbered, the light fantastic all
night long. There was migraine-inducing |
disco dancing, by far the most popular
attraction for a good many Fancy Dressers,

10

Young lovers at Saturday's Buffalo River party.

in “Studio 54,” which during the rest of
the year is the student center’s Fairfax
Lounge. In one erstwhile meeting room,
transformed for the duration into
“Greenwich Village,” a Brazilian music
ensemble entertained; in another, a
thurmaturgist performed mind-boggling
feats of a prestidigatory sort; in yet
another, W&L’s own “Radio City,”
cartoons and short movies were screened
all night. One hallway was done yp as a
composite of Fifth and Lexingto# Avenues,
complete with designer windows of Saks
and Bloomingdale’s. Another hall was a
graffiti-covered subway station (the
students this year aspired to complete
realism); yet another was the Great White
Way.

As usual, Fancy Dress formally got
under way Thursday night, with a group
called the Vandales (“a showy dance act,”
according to the Ring-tum Phi) out at
Zollman’s Pavillion, the student body’s
favorite party place on the Buffalo River,
about six miles out in the county. The
weekend wound down in the wee hours
Sunday, after yet another wild frolic back
out at Zollman’s down by the riverside.
Depending on whom you ask, there were
3,000, maybe 4,000 at that Saturday
extravaganza. “Merging Traffic’ and “The
Backstabbers,’ which are the names of
bands, not phenomena, were the alleged
highlights of the afternoon.

Yet another Fancy Dress tradition was
preserved; the weather miraculously
warmed up, after a vicious period just
before the weekend, into the 60s on the
day of the Ball itself; it didn’t get cold
again until pretty late on Saturday, when
most revelers were past noticing anyway.

 

 

 

 

. . and they cuddled.
Everyone loved New York to the very end.

They played .. .

 

11

 

& GAZETTE

 

 

Reeves, Herreshoff collections
At South Carolina festival

W&L’s Reeves Collection of Chinese
export porcelain and the paintings of
Louise Herreshoff, “an American artist
discovered,” will be shown in Charleston,
S. C., in May as part of the spectacular
Spoleto festival—a week-long citywide
celebration of the arts, from dramatics to
the visual arts. The W&L collections will
go on display in the Gibbes Art Gallery
May 17, and the occasion will be marked
by the Charleston Alumni Chapter with a
cocktail party tentatively scheduled to
begin at 6 p.m., followed at 8 p.m. by a
preview reception in the museum itself in
conjunction with the Patrons of the Gibbes
Gallery.

 

 

News of the student body

—Stephen H. Abraham, a junior
politics major from Chevy Chase, Md., has
been elected president of the student body
for the 1979-80 year. He is currently a
class representative on the Student
Executive Committee. Also elected to
student offices were Leslie A. Cotter Jr. of
Columbia, S.C., vice president, and
Covert J. Geary of New Orleans,
secretary. Cotter is currently president of
the junior class and was president of last
years sophomore class. Geary, a
newcomer to campus politics, is business
manager this year of the Ring-tum Phi.

—Douglas A. Byrd, a senior business
administration major from Baton Rouge,
was one of 26 students from across the
nation selected this spring to attend the
three-day annual professional seminar of
Beta Gamma Sigma, the honor society in
business.

—Brett A. Wohler of Lexington and
Peter H. Benda of Austinville, Va., shared
this year’s Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore
Award, given to the student or students
with the highest grade-point average after
a year and a half at W&L. They tied with
perfect 4.0 averages for three long terms
and their freshman-year short term.

—Two law school debate teams
captured important honors in national and

12

 

WwL’s National Mock Trial team of Llewellyn
H. Hedgbeth and John A. Cocklereece.

Members of WeL’s Jessup International Moot Court team, headed for national competition, are

meanwhile, the W&L representatives
were singled out for having presented the
best brief, and team member Christopher
Wolf was named best oral advocate.

—The newly formed W&L Film
Society, whose purpose is to bring
“quality” films to campus and to show
them at no cost to students and
townspeople, presented another West
German “New Wave’ film, Peter Watkins’
Edvard Munch, and Orson Welles
composite of the Shakespearean “Henry”
plays, Falstaff (Chimes at Midnight),
during March.

 

 

Faculty activity

—Dr. Emory Kimbrough, head of the
sociology department, has been awarded a
research grant for summer study from the

Maurice L. Mednick Fund. He will use

Christopher Wolf, Leonard K. Welsh, Daniel E. Westbrook, Thomas J. Schetelich, and John P.

Corrado, all second-year students.

regional competition in March. The Lewis
Hall National Mock Trial Competition
Team finished second in the nation in
competition against 15 other teams of
finalists, and one of the W&L barristers,
Llewellyn Hedgbeth, was named runner-
up best oral advocate at the meet. The
second W&L group, the Jessup
International Moot Court Team, took first
place in regional competition and will
compete later this spring in the national
tournament. In the regional competition,

the grant for study at Oxford, England, in
the areas of national welfare policy and city
government and politics. The Mednick
Fund is administered by the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges (the
joint fund-raising consortium of 12 private
institutions, of which A. Lea Booth, '40,
°76-LL.D., is director) and awarded grants
this year to teachers at nine Virginia
institutions.

— Members of the psychology

SLL —C“CtwssCSCs—‘(C‘CC(C(‘(‘C‘CNSNCWN:‘‘CjgqS

 

 

&

Dr. Emory Kimbrough, winner of a Mednick
Fund research grant for summer study at Oxford.

74
department have had articles published
this winter on human memory and on the
effects of surgery on specific portions of
the brain. Dr. David G. Elmes is the
author of an article, “Retrieval Processes
in Human Memorization,” in The Virginia
Journal of Science, in which he describes
research he and his W&L students have
undertaken in light of studies carried out
elsewhere. And an article by Dr. Leonard
E. Jarrard, psychology department head,
entitled “Selective Hippocampal Lesions:
Differential Effects on Performance of a
Spatial Task with Pre-Operative vs. Post-
Operative Training, appeared in the
winter issue of The Journal of
Comparative and Physiological
Psychology. Jarrard’s article reports the
results of his continuing research into the
hippocampus, a small portion of the brain
associated with memory, motivation and
certain behavior patterns. That research
has been supported for the past 13 years by
a series of National Science Foundation
grants.

—Dr. David R. Novack, assistant
sociology professor, delivered a research
paper examining the concept of
“community” in an “urban village’—South
Boston, Mass.—before a meeting in March

 

of the Eastern Sociological Society. Novack
completed his research with the help of
Paul H. Thompson, a 1977 W&L graduate,
under the University s Robert E. Lee
Research Program.

—Betty Munger, manager of the W&L
Bookstore, was chairman of a panel on a
subject she knows well—“The College
Bookstore and Good Campus Relations” —
at the annual convention of the National
Association of College Stores in New York
City. Mrs. Munger, a past president of the
Virginia College Stores Association and
chairman of that organization’s brand-new
Virginia Book Awards committee, has
received frequent state and national
recognition for her book-and-bookstore
promotion ideas, which have led to her
shop's becoming an informal social as well
as intellectual center of the campus.

—Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor
of economics and national president of
Omicron Delta Epsilon, the honor society
in economics, was a guest lecturer in
March at the United States Naval Academy
in Annapolis, Md. He delivered a lecture

 

The Rev. Thomas V. Barrett
1917-1978

The Rev. Thomas Van Braam Bar-
rett, who received an honorary D.D.
from Washington and Lee in 1954,
died Dec. 30 at his home in Rock-
bridge County.

Dr. Barrett was rector of R. E. Lee
Memorial Episcopal Church from 1951
to 1959. In 1963, he became professor
of pastoral theological homiletics at the
Church Divinity School of the Pacific
at Berkeley, Calif., a position he held
until his retirement and subsequent
return to Lexington in 1976.

A theologian of national reputa-
tion, he had held numerous other pas-
toral and teaching posts over a period
of more than 45 years. He also was the
author of four books on theology, in
addition to a number of magazine
articles.

He is survived by his wife, Marjorie
K. Barrett; a daughter, Mrs. Donald
E. Lorrier, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; a
son, Thomas C. Barrett, of Talla-
hassee; and five grandchildren.

 

 

 

on the topic “Telecommunications Policy:
How Much Competition?” to the naval
academy s 400 economics students and
later met with the academy’s faculty and
student ODE members. On his visit to
Annapolis he also was the guest speaker at
a meeting of the Chesapeake Association of
Economics Educators.

—O. W. Riegel, professor emeritus of
journalism and head of that department for
34 years, was a guest in March at the 29th
International Berlin Film Festival. Riegel
is a leading international authority in the
political uses of motion pictures and in the
field of the implications of political control
over broadcasting satellites. He is an
officer of several international film
associations, and frequently attends
meetings in Europe, such as the Berlin
festival, and elsewhere.

 

 

Smith edits new report
on newspaper readership

Hampden H. Smith, assistant
journalism professor, is the editor of a new:
monthly report on newspaper readership
studies. His reports distill research articles
which have been published in academic
and scholarly journals, and are distributed
to the membership of the Virginia Press
Association, at whose request Smith
undertook the project. Ever since it was
announced in the professional journalism
trade press, a number of newspapers,
press associations and academic libraries
throughout the country have also asked to
receive Smith's reports.

Smith is a former assistant city editor at
the Richmond (Va.) News Leader and has
taught reporting and print-journalism
techniques at W&L since 1974.

 

 

New aide is named
in publication and news offices

M. Graham Coleman II, who will
receive his B.A. degree this year, will join
the University administration in August as
assistant director of publications and
assistant director of the news office, under
a program which brings a new graduate
into that position each year for one year.

13

 

 

Le GALETTE

Coleman is editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum
Phi this year and is Louisiana's first Harry
S Truman Scholar (under the newly
established Congressional scholarship
program which designates one outstanding
student from each state each year). He was
a Rhodes Scholarship finalist last winter.
He was elected to both Phi Beta Kappa
and Omicron Delta Kappa in his junior
year. He has also been president of his
social fraternity, Pi Kappa Phi. As
publications-and-news-office assistant, he
will be a frequent contributor to the
Alumni Magazine and editor of the
University’s Weekly Calendar and will

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Does this scene look familiar? It should. It appeared in the Sept. 5, 1977,
edition of The New Yorker. The magazine reported that Mr. Opie, in
drawing the cartoon, used a photograph of the Washington and Lee

14

have extensive responsibility for preparing
news releases. He will also have principal
responsibility for the University’s media-
relations activities in connection with the
1980 Mock Republican Convention. He
will succeed Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, 77, in
the one-year position.

 

 

In the arts

—Paintings, drawings and prints by 42
W&L art students were displayed this
spring in the annual duPont Gallery

student art exhibition.

—Prints by a 1975 graduate, Turner
McGehee, were shown in duPont in
February.

—DuPont was the scene of an
exhibition of turn-of-the-century
photographs by Jacob Riis, showing New
York City slum life, and Lewis Hine,
portraying child labor abuse. In
conjunction with that exhibition, Dr.
Matthew Baigell, professor of art history at
Rutgers University, spoke to art students
and teachers and guests on the topic
“Social Realism. ”

 

Drawing by Opie: © 1977 The New Yorker Magazine, Inc.

campus from the Picture Collection of the New York City Public Library
because he found W&L’s to be “the most picturesque campus.” The
drawing is reproduced here by permission.

 

 

/ HY

—The music division of the fine arts
department presented its annual program
of student compositions in early April.

Sixteen pieces—solos, duos, quartets and ©

chamber-orchestra pieces—prepared by
students in music theory and composition
courses were performed in a Lee Chapel
concert.

—The W&L Glee Club visited four
southeastern cities this winter during the

University's Washington Holiday vacation.

A drawing by Anne Secor, an exchange
student from Sweet Briar, from the
annual W&L student art exhibition.

The 40-voice group presented concerts at
Meredith College in Raleigh, N.C.,
Darlington School in Rome, Ga., and
Jackson Preparatory and St. Andrew’s
Episcopal Schools in Jackson, Miss.,
before traveling on to New Orleans for two
days of “rest and relaxation” there during
Mardi Gras week.

—The Glee Club presented a program
of secular music and joined with the
Hollins College Chapel Choir for sacred
music by Schutz and Haydn in two

concerts in March at W&L and at Hollins.

—Visitors to campus for musical
performances recently have included the
Stradivari String Quartet, for a program of
music by Haydn, Shostakovich and
Schumann, and Robert Silverman,
virtuoso pianist, for a concert of works by
Beethoven, Chopin, Frank Martin,
Rachmaninoff and Ravel. Both were
brought to W&L by the University
Concert Guild.

—The University Theatre, formerly the
Troubadours, presented three productions
in February and March—Shakespeare’s
Taming of the Shrew, directed by senior
drama major Hunt Brown; Albee’s The Zoo
Story, directed by a junior, Hugh L.
Robinson; and a triumphant production of
Ferenc Molnar’ The Guardsmen, the
season's major effort, directed by Lee
Kahn, director of dramatics and assistant
professor. Kahn had been on leave last

 

by John N. Swift

Assistant Professor of English

Stuart s
Nabokov:
The Reader
| As Artist

 

 

 

Nabokov: The Dimensions of Parody by
Dabney Stuart, Professor of English, Wash-
ington and Lee University; Louisiana State
University Press, 1978.

Besides writing novels, the late Vladimir
Nabokov also collected butterflies and de-
vised complicated chess problems. As one
might expect, his novels are usually praised
for their ingenuity, their delicate craftsman-
ship, or the diaphanous beauty of their prose:
equally predictably, when they are criticized
it is for obscurity, self-indulgence, and ir-
relevant frivolity. The reader of Nabokov,
instead of finding in the fiction a credible
imitation of life, must play an elaborate game
with unfamiliar rules, threading a maze of
literary clues—repeated words and images,
suspiciously similar characters—in pursuit
of elusive meanings which, when found,
point him only to further puzzles. Nabokov’s
art is quintessentially self-reflexive—it wants
to comment on itself and the act of artistic
creation rather than on the “real world”—
and such introspection can be irritating: it
smacks of the gay, the heedless, and the
socially irresponsible.

But the irritation afflicts only the reader
who comes to literature with certain precon-

ceptions, one of which is the traditional dis-
tinction between life and art, fact and fiction:
I put “real world” in quotation marks because
it is just such a concept that Nabokow’s fiction
ultimately questions. In Nabokov: The Di-
mensions of Parody, Dabney Stuart examines
six of the author's less well-known works in
order to re-arrange our assumptions about
literary “realism” (another term in need of
hard scrutiny), and to demonstrate that un-
derstanding art may actually be the most
meaningful way of understanding life.

The title of Stuart’s book reflects his sense
that all fiction, regardless of its intended
“realism,” is parodic, and that, as he puts it,

since any fiction is a parody of life, the best
fiction or the fiction that is most consciously
itself, is the fiction that acknowledges as
completely as it can be made to do its own
parodic nature. To put this in terms which
have traditionally riddled commentaries on
fiction, the last thing a writer should try to
do is bamboozle his readers into “identify-
ing with,” or “sympathizing with,” his
characters. The object, on the contrary, is
to keep the reader at a substantial distance
from not only the characters but the book in
which they appear, to put him as much as
possible in the place where he competes

 

 

Le GArev ve

autumn for health reasons, and the play
represented his return after a directorial
absence of a year.

 

 

Visitors to campus

—The annual Legal Ethics Institute—a
co-curricular activity of the University’s
pre-professional ethics programs in law,
journalism and medicine—brought seven
alumni who are practicing attorneys to
campus this spring for two days of formal
and informal seminars and discussions with
W&L undergraduates and two eminent
legal scholars, William H. Erickson,
justice of the Colorado state supreme
court, and Geoffrey C. Hazard Jr.,
professor of law at Yale. Erickson was on
campus for a week under the auspices of
the Woodrow Wilson Visiting Fellows
of the bar in its dealings with the crimi-

“Contact” speakers Eugene McCarthy and William Rusher.

 

 

with the author, to give him a sense of
participating in the game of composition, to
remind him, in short, of the nature of the
experience he is involved in; that is, read-
ing, confronting an imaginative creation
that has its own principles of reality that do
not ask to be viewed from the same per-
spective one takes on other aspects of his

life.

In other words, fiction should not try to be
life, nor should we compare it to life; it per-
forms its function best by being unlike life,
by destroying the real world and rebuilding
it as a game or puzzle, a linguistic construc-
tion erected according to its own rules.
Stuart’s definitional logichere—“since all
fiction is parody, the best fiction is the most
parodic’—is irrefutable; it’s also self-enclos-
ed, and finally not very satisfying to the
traditional sort of reader who wants literature
somehow to bear on his own experience,
who in fact wants to find something to “iden-
tify with.” Stuart’s point, of course, is that to
equate one’s self with a fictional character is
a potentially disastrous act of self-decep-
tion: he points to Nabokov's Invitation to a
Beheading, whose protagonist mistakes a
fictional world for a real one and barely es-
capes death in his self-created drama. None-

16

theless, the reader’s question remains, and
it is an important one: if we cannot locate
ourselves in fictional characters and land-
scapes, where is our place in the novel? Or,
more pragmatically, why even bother to en-
ter a world whose doors seem so resolutely
barred against us? Stuart’s answer lies in the
relocation of the reader from within the fic-
tion to above it, to “the place where he com-
petes with the author” in playing the game of
fiction. When he understands the rules of
the game, the best Nabokov reader becomes
himself a craftsman, a maker of fictions: in-
stead of entering the lives of the novels
characters (a limited and limiting ambition,
after all), he enters the act of creating those
lives. And the understanding of authorship,
of the imaginative creation and organization
of a world, may finally be an understanding
of “real” experience.

In the final chapter of his book Stuart de-
scribes Nabokov’s autobiographical Speak,
Memory as

imaginative narration in which events, ac-
tions, details of landscape (both indoors and
out) in themselves neutral, are formed,
shaped, and rendered significant by a
single, ordering consciousness. It is, in
short, fiction, a molding (fingere), not op-

posed to fact—the popular distinction one
is numbed into accepting as a habit of daily
perception—but the way fact is born. The
opposite of fiction is Nothing, the famous
Void, rien, nada, the Big Blank.

“Fiction is not opposed to Truth, either,’ he
warns us in a footnote; “—another lumpish
tradition.” Here the boundaries between
fictional and real worlds dissolve: Nabokov’s
autobiography, ostensibly a document of
historical truth, turns out to be a creative
organization, an imaginative construction, a
fiction. Yet it is no less “real” or “true” for
that; any historian or biographer has con-
fronted the paradox of constructing historical
“truth,” fabricating an imaginary structure
in which reality becomes meaningful. All of
our significant realities—our memories, our
assumptions, our expectations—are fictions
in that they are subjectively organized con-
structions, and in fact their importance—
their “reality” to us—arises from their fic-
tional nature. “Facts” are simply what the
“single, ordering consciousness’ can pull, in
an act of artistic creation, from what William
James called “the empirical sand-heap,”
Dabney Stuart’s “rien, nada, the Big Blank.”

Studying fiction, then, we study the ways
in which we know ourselves and our worlds;

nal justice system. Hazard spoke to the
institute participants and the public on
the topic “A Code: What Good Is it?”
Alumni who returned to campus for the
institute were Benjamin L. Bailey, °75,
now in Cambridge, Mass.; J. Martin Bass,
‘70, a lawyer in Fredericksburg; William
G. Broaddus, '65, attorney for Henrico
County (suburban Richmond); F. Thorns
Craven, 62, director of legal aid services
in western North Carolina; John S.
Graham III, ’67, in private practice in
Richmond; William Jeffress Jr., 67, in
practice in Washington, D.C., and Thomas
C. Spencer, ‘69L, partner in a Lexington
law firm.

—Former U.S. Sen. Eugene
McCarthy, the 1968 anti-Vietnam spoiler
in Democratic party politics, and National
Review publisher William A. Rusher,
visited W&L together under the
sponsorship of the student body’s

“Contact” symposium series in March for a
Lee Chapel debate on “priorities for the
1980s.”

—Two Asia specialists with the United
States State Department and a University
of Virginia expert on Chinese foreign
policy were leaders in a roundtable
discussion on Indo-China relations at the
annual meeting of the Virginia Consortium
for Asian Studies, held in Lexington in
March. Dr. Harold C. Hill, director of
W&Liss Asian Studies Program, is vice
president of the group and was largely
responsible for arrangements. The
conference was co-sponsored by W&L and
Virginia Military Institute.

— Helmut Hoffman, language division
director of the Goethe Institute in Atlanta,
spoke at W&L on the topic of the West
German filmmaking renaissance of the
1970s. His visit was co-sponsored by
W&Lis journalism department and

V.M.I.’s English department.

—Dr. Susan Morgan, a member of
Stanford University’s English faculty and
an authority on 18th- and 19th-century
fiction and on Jane Austen in particular,
spoke at W&L on the topic “Women and
Literature’ in a visit co-sponsored by the
University’s English Club and the
University Lectures Committee.

—David Cary, chairman of Mary
Baldwin College’s sociology department,
spoke on the topic “Blacks in the Virginia
Penal System During the 19th Century” in
March.

—Paul F. Hoffman, a research scientist
with the Geological Survey of Canada,
delivered a lecture entitled “Stratigraphic
and Structural Development of
Aulacogens’” in a visit to campus co-
sponsored by the geology department and
the American Association of Petroleum
Geologists.

 

 

Dabney Stuart

hence my earlier claim that the understand-
ing of art is the most meaningful under-
standing of life. The first novel that Stuart
discusses, for example, is The Real Life of

 

- Sebastian Knight, akind of detective story in

which the narrator and reader sort and as-
semble the pieces of a man’s biography, jux-
taposing the fragmentary perspectives of
those who have known him. The resulting
assemblage becomes Sebastian's realest his-
tory, and thus his realest self; finally the nar-
rator recognizes that in constructing an
identity he has assumed that identity, has
become Sebastian Knight. Stuart comments
that

the game of detection is directed beyond
itself. In The Real Life of Sebastian Knight
the highest region of serious emotion is the
region in which a man searches for his iden-
tity, the region of the question “Who am
IP’ and the book is therefore both a game
and a quest for self-knowledge.

There are surely few more important ques-
tions and quests in experience; Stuart's
identification of this “highest region of seri-
ous emotion” in Nabokov’s art responds di-
rectly to its detractors’ charges of narcissism
and “irrelevance.” And it is just this region
that remains inaccessible to the reader who
refuses to play the game and discover his
reflection, not in fictional characters, but in
the creator of fictions. Such a reader dis-

misses the game as pointless literary postur-
ing or child’s play; he misses its moral di-
mensions, its involvement in his own “reali-
ties.”

I've perhaps been heavy-handed in my
summary of Stuart’s argument for the value
of parody as a model for significant literature;
Nabokov: The Dimensions of Parody is no
didactic tract, and the force of its reasoning
emerges only gradually and obliquely from
deceptively playful and game-like critical
structures. Stuart's prose style—as I hope
the examples I've quoted make clear—is
anything but formally academic; it’s unpre-
tentiously graceful, marked by common
sense and impatience with any stolidity of
thought. In fact, an obvious analogy occurs
to me: Stuart’s book bears much the same
relation to most criticism that Nabokov s fic-
tion does to most conventional novels. His
reader, like Nabokov’s, discovers that the
graceful and apparently inconsequential

- games are drawing him toward another kind

of significant reality. As the last move of the
game, the reader of Nabokov may be released
back into the “real world;” similarly, Stuart's
reader finds, in his words, “nowhere to turn
except back to the book’—to the novelistic
fiction which the critical fiction has parodied.

17

RED FOX/SECOND HANGIN

W&L Alumni Present A True-History Drama Under Glasgow Sponsorship

 

Dudley D. Cocke Jr., ’68

A true-history drama written by Donald
H. Baker and Dudley D. Cocke Jr., both
1968 Washington and Lee University
graduates, was presented at Washington
and Lee in March by the Roadside
Theatre.

The play, entitled Red Fox/Second
Hangin’, draws its plot from the oral
history of the southwest Virginia mountain
_area and its style from the traditional
storytelling of the Southern Appalachians.
The W&L production was sponsored by
the Glasgow Endowment Program,
inaugurated at W&L in 1960 “to promote
the art of expression by pen and tongue. ”

The play recounts the story of M. B.
(Doc) Taylor, a doctor, surveyor and
religious mystic who was hanged for
murder in 1893 in Wise County, and is
retold to the audience by three actor-
tellers, Don Baker, Frankie Taylor and
Gary Slemp. (Dudley Cocke, co-author, is
also Roadside’s manager. )

The Roadside Theatre, a troupe founded
by Baker and others in 1974, has
presented Red Fox to widespread critical
acclaim, particularly in New York, where it
received very favorable reviews from the
New York Times, Christian Science
Monitor, Village Voice and The New

18

Yorker.

The incidents of the trial and those
leading up to it, were ferreted out by the
two authors from court records and
transcripts (“found at the top of an old,
disappearing courthouse staircase, under a
thick layer of coal dust, and separated by
layers of “Rock and Rye’ whiskey bottles’),
from old newspapers, and from the
accounts of older residents who
remembered Doc Taylor, or recalled
stories passed down in families.

“And the way these folks tell the story is
often very different from the history
books, yet closer to those forgotten
documents, said Cocke.

The Roadside format is to tell the story
as just that—a story. The “actor-tellers” on
stage sometimes portray characters, but
more often they are narrators.

Vintage slides, which help to illustrate
the story—the actors use no other props or
costumes—were all taken along the
Cumberland Mountains at the time the
story occurred, in the 1880s and 1890s.

“Through these photos of a brown and
faded world we will weave a story of
color,” said Baker in his talk before the
program began.

The New York Times called Red Fox “as

Donald H. Baker, ’68

 

stirring to the audience for its historical
detective work as for the vanishing art of
frontier yarnspinning. The Christian
Science Monitor said the performance “was
remarkable entertainment, the likes of
which New York folks don’t encounter
every day.” The New Yorker said the story
was presented “quietly and with no
pretensions whatever, but with talent and
charm.”

The troupe, most often performing in
community centers, churches, schools, and
theatres, at festivals and picnics, and on
occasion in a rented revival tent, has
striven “to develop a style of theatre that
makes sense in a rural setting, that can
reach the young and the old in the small
communities of the Appalachians, the back
hollows, and the coal mining camps.” It
has gone where “conventional theatre
seldom, if ever, travels.”

The group is part of Appalshop, a non-
profit media organization in Whitesbury,
Ky., that produces records, films, and
publications.

As a W&L undergraduate, Baker was
active in the University Theatre, then
called the Troubadours, and in 1968
became the first student to direct a full-
length play, The Country Wife.”

 

 

Rowland Nelson
1902-1979

 

Dr. Rowland Whiteway Nelson, who
taught English at Washington and Lee
for 29 years until his retirement in 1967,
died January 18 in San Diego, Calif.

Surviving him are a daughter, Mrs.
Paul Bargamin III (Roberta Joan Nelson
Bargamin) of Richmond, and two grand-
sons. His wife, the former Carrie Moore
Neal Nelson, died in 1970.

Nelson was born in Brooklyn, N. Y.,
May 17, 1902, and earned his academic
degrees from Princeton University, Ox-
ford in England, and Northwestern Uni-
versity. He taught English at Narthwes-
tern and at the University of North Caro-
lina prior to joining the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1938.

Except for his years of naval duty dur-
ing World War II, after which he rose to
the rank of lieutenant commander in the
Navy Reserves, and one semester of
teaching at Virginia Military Institute,
Nelson remained on the Washington and
Lee faculty until his retirement in 1967.
(He had recently received a letter of tri-
bute from President Carter for his Navy
navigation bomber duties during the
Second World War.)

While at W&L, Nelson was director
for a time of the Troubadour Theatre,
coach of the debate team, and a member
of the Committees on Social Functions
and Musical and Dramatic Activities, the
Rhodes Committee, and the Publications
Board. He was an organizer of the Lex-
ington branch of the English-Speaking
Union in 1948.

Known to his students as “Thumper,”
a nickname given him for his habit of
thumping his feet as he read something of
amusement in his courses or told a joke,
according to his daughter, Nelson enjoyed

fishing, painting, bird-watching, collect-
ing coins, and playing golf in his years
after retirement. _

A faculty resolution presented at the
faculty's March meeting noted Nelson for
“the urbanity he brought to his classes,”
and the “taste, wit, polish, grace and re-
finement that comprised the 18th-century
ideal of the gentleman’ —an ideal that he
strove to emulate.

The faculty also remembered him in
its resolution as a “kind, gentle, civilized
man—a good teacher, a loyal friend, and
a faithful colleague.”

Esmarch Gilreath
1904-1979

Esmarch was known as a true friend to
many at Washington and Lee. Always a real
gentleman, he was, in his quiet and polite way,
an important figure in the affairs of the Univer-

sity.
—Faculty Resolution
April, 1979

Esmarch Senn Gilreath, head of the
chemistry department at Washington and
Lee University for 15 years until 1970
and a member of the W&L faculty for 29
years, died at his home in Lexington on
March 3. He was 74.

He is survived by his wife, Sara Taylor
Gilreath.

Dr. Gilreath came to Washington and
Lee in 1946 from North Carolina, where
he had earned his A.B., M.A., and Ph.D.
degrees in chemistry from the University
of North Carolina; he worked as a research
chemist with American Enka Corp. and
taught at U.N.C. while completing his
doctorate. He became department head
at W&L in 1955 and returned to full-time
teaching in 1970. He retired in 1975.

His 15 years as department head were
characterized by utter fairness and an
“insistence that every member of the
chemistry faculty participate in decisions
of importance to the department,” ac-
cording to his colleagues on the faculty at
the time of his retirement.

He was always available, one fellow
teacher commented, to help colleagues
in whatever ways he could—from chemi-
cal and educational problems to questions
regarding house-hunting, gardening, and
science fiction.

Gilreath was the author of a number
of college-level chemistry textbooks used
by students throughout the nation, in-
cluding Elementary Qualitative Analysis
(1969), Experimental Procedures in Ele-
mentary Qualitative Analysis (1968),

Fundamental Concepts of Inorganic
Chemistry (1958), and Qualitative Ana-
lysis (1954, translated into Spanish and
published in that language in 1960).

His scholarship and writing were so
highly regarded that one publisher wrote
to him in 1968: “We could seek further
critical opinions at this point, but prefer
to go right ahead with copy editing with-
out further delay. We are confident of the
quality of the manuscript.”

In his tenure at Washington and Lee,
the chemistry faculty grew in size from
four to seven full-time teachers, and stu-
dent enrollment increased substantially
as well. The number of courses increased
by 50 percent. Facilities were improved
dramatically as well: Dr. Gilreath assisted
in the planning for the remodeling of
Howe Hall, completed in 1962.

The son of a physician, he was espec-
ially interested in the University’s pre-
medical curriculum, and during most of

 

his time at W&L was the advisor to pre-
med students.

During the summers, Dr. Gilreath
was frequently a visiting professor at other
colleges, including the Universities of
North Carolina, British Columbia, and
Oregon.

“He was an effective teacher—par-
ticularly in designing and developing ex-
periments for student use, William J.
Watt, dean of the College and a fellow
chemistry professor, had remarked upon
Dr. Gilreath’s retirement in 1975.

“The qualitative-analysis scheme
which grew out of his Ph.D. dissertation
is one of the most successful. The clarity
of his writing and of his lectures has help-
ed many a stumbling student to grasp the
fundamentals of analytical chemistry.”

 

 

19

 

 

 

 

 

W&L MEN

The

Invading
Troupe
of Lee
and
Durante

Dr.
George
Craddock:

Modest
Healer

20

Lee’s Norfolk campaign, a whirlwind
assault of 20 hours, cannot be measured as
yet in terms of its historical significance.

This will depend, oddly enough, upon
the future sales of Virginia Gentleman, a
bourbon whiskey, in this Tidewater
area....

Lee’s mission, basically, was to sell the
whiskey . . . . He came to spread the
word.

This he did with singular cheerfulness
and characteristic bursts of energy . . . .

His lightning sweep of the Norfolk area
was nothing new to this Lee—Robert E.
Lee IV, 54, great-grandson of the noble
Confederate general. He is vice president
of the A. Smith Bowman Distillery of
Reston, Virginia's only legal still... .

The distillery is a small operation,
employing 50 people. For example, the
sales force and advertising department
consists only of Lee and a golden retriever
named Jefferson. (Both are also members
of the Board of Directors.)

The Norfolk campaign was designed and
engineered by Lee’s lone lieutenant, a
public relations man named Albert
Durante, 63, a New Yorker. Virginia
Gentleman is his only account.

Durante, although this is rarely

Dr. George B. Craddock is a 1930 graduate
of W&L, a former member of the Alumni
Board of Directors, and the 1971 recipient
of the Lynchburg Citation, awarded to him
by the Lynchburg alumni chapter for his
service to his alma mater and for “his skill
and compassion in serving his fellow man
as a practitioner of the quiet miracles

of healing.”

The man some have called the hardest-
working physician in the area has received
this year’s Distinguished Internist Award
from the Virginia Society of Internal
Medicine.

But Dr. George B. Craddock, a
Lynchburg native who has practiced here
for nearly 40 years, says he doesn’t know
why he got the award.

“T have tried to practice medicine
conscientiously and competently . . . But I
have no special accomplishments,” he
says.

Typical of his modesty is his quoting a
famous Canadian physician and author, Sir
William Osler, in his letter to the society’s

mentioned as the two struggle to establish
bourbon beachheads, also has a famous
relative. Al Durante is the nephew of
Jimmy Durante, the comedian, possibly
better known generally than Robert E.
Lee, the general.

. . . The two are a team, an odd couple,
an unusual combination of famous-name
offshoots . . . . Durante resembles Jimmy
but can’t play a piano. Lee might be said
to resemble Lee... .

Both men have New York accents. In
Lee’s case, the sound is a bit disturbing.

. . . He was born in Manhattan. His
father, Dr. George Bolling Lee, was the
doctor for the Plaza Hotel, in New York.

Durante is also a Manhattan man. His
great-grandfather farmed in Italy. His
grandfather was an immigrant and a
barber. Al's father was a New York
detective, the older brother who had to
pull Jimmy off the streets for piano
lessons.

In Norfolk the two, longing for a
comfortable New York nightspot, were
forced to station themselves in a hotel
restaurant which, it was discovered, had
turned itself into a disco with flashing
lights and loud, pounding rock.

Lee downed buckets of iced tea and a

 

a

 

Dr. George W. Craddock at the time he received
the Lynchburg Citation.

president acknowledging the award:

* “We don’t have to deserve an honor to
be pleased with it!’ Naturally I am most
happy over this, as undeserved as it is.”

 

 

 

Bob
Lee
from
the
1949
Calyx |

Bob
Lee
Today

 

Denver omelet. Durante had half a beer, a
Denver omelet, and turned to coffee.
Their meandering conversation
consisted of a series of shouts over the
music.
Lee, at one point, yelled the only way to
enjoy New York nowadays was to resign

 

Al
Durante
Today

 

yourself to spending a lot of money.
Durante, shouting back, expressed
dissatisfaction with the way a terrible
restaurant can become an overnight
success after one visit from Jacqueline
Kennedy Onassis.
How had they met?

Durante growled at the top of his voice
that he had graduated from Washington
and Lee University in 1936. He worked as
a reporter for the New York Daily News,
went into public relations with J. Walter
Thompson and was with the old Bourbon
Institute, a business organization since
disbanded, when he met Lee.

Lee cried out, the lights flashing off his
glasses, that he too had graduated from
Washington and Lee, in 1949. He went
west and spent 20 years in newspaper
advertising with the San Francisco
Chronicle. Once established with the
distillery, he naturally attended meetings
of the Institute, devoted to bourbon
problems, and at one happy meeting of
members discovered Durante was the only
one there who could sing the We-L Swing,
a good school song produced sometime
after the death of Robert E. Lee, who
joined the school as its president after the
Civil War....

As the two left Norfolk, they were
planning the invasion of Atlanta.

—JOHN MCKELway, ’50
Staff Writer, Washington (D. C.) Star,
Feb. 4, 1979

Reprinted with permission

 

 

 

One has to rely on other physicians and
Craddock’s wife, Mary Spencer, for a
description of why he deserves the honor.

A local physician says, “He’s dedicated
and has applied himself assiduously to
medicine.

“He’s of the old school—he puts himself
out for his patients; he’s unselfish. He
makes more house calls than any other
doctor in these parts.

“If he has a fault, it’s that he drives
himself too hard. I wish you'd ask his wife
when he sleeps.”

Mrs. Craddock verifies that yes,
Craddock gets up by 6:30 a.m. to make his
hospital rounds and, even after a hard
day's grind, is usually back at the hospital
late at night.

Another doctor says this gentle,
unassuming man tenaciously keeps up with
advances in his field. A past president of
the Lynchburg Academy of Medicine,
Craddock still is known for “quizzing
doctors” on medical news.

Craddock remembers fondly the days
when the academy would schedule

 

monthly discussions on new medical
information, something it is distracted
from today by the need to deal with
problems like getting new equipment for
the hospitals.

The lifelong student of medicine is a
Fellow of the American College of
Physicians and a Diplomate of the
American Board of Internal Medicine.

Mrs. Craddock says Craddock’s
dedication to science extends to listening
to medical lectures on a cassette player in
his car as he drives from hospital to
hospital.

Still, he maintains a unique balance
between the old and new.

No slave to his up-to-date information,
he says, “People have the idea that what is
current is correct, which isn’t necessarily
true.”

In addition to recognition for his
dedication to his patients and to science,
Craddock probably received the
Distinguished Internist Award in part for
his labors as a member of the Virginia
State Board of Medicine from 1963 to

 

1975. He was its president in 1973-74.

He thus is familiar with the pains state
doctors take to police their profession and
says, they do a better job than they are
given credit for.” Craddock is also
enthusiastic about the board’s growing
emphasis on continuing education for
doctors.

What would he have been if he hadn’t
become a doctor? He says he doesn’t
know, but his friends suspect he would
have been an historian.

They say he is a voracious reader of
many histories—something he passes off
with a laugh, saying he is a student of
“heterogeneous history.”

At any rate, Mrs. Craddock says when
her hard-working husband is home, he can
often be found curled up with a history
book by the telephone, waiting for patients
or the hospitals to call.

—ALICIA GLASs
Lynchburg Daily Advance
March 7, 1979

Reprinted with permission

 

 

 

 

21

CHAPTER NEWS

1979 Lynchburg Citation Goes to Edward Graves, Adjunct Law Professor

BALTIMORE. Chapter members
gathered for a cocktail party and luncheon
at the Maryland Club on Feb. 9 to
welcome William M. Hartog, Washington
and Lee’s admissions director. Hartog,

who had spent the previous day making
recruitment calls at several Baltimore prep
schools and high schools, gave a talk on the
admissions situation at W&L, commenting
on some of his plans for the future of the
department. James J. Dawson, ’68,
president of the chapter, welcomed Leroy
C. Atkins, 68, assistant alumni secretary;
Frank C. Brooks, ’46, member of the
University Board of Trustees from
Baltimore; and William C. Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary, as special guests of the
chapter.

COLUMBIA. The Palmetto Chapter
conducted its annual winter business
meeting, with a cocktail party and dinner,
on Feb. 15 at Seawell’s Restaurant (South
Carolina Fairgrounds). The chapter
elected officers for the next year. Joseph
R. Wilson, 65, was elected president;
Hagood J. Ellison Jr., "72, vice president;
and Claude M. Walker Jr., 71, secretary-
treasurer. New directors of the chapter are
John W. Folsom, ’73, Willoughby Newton
III, 60, John C. B. Smith Jr., 67, William
H. Townsend, ’50, and Joseph Walker II,
‘76. Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, 68, assistant
alumni secretary, spoke briefly about
recent developments on campus and
particularly about the completion of the
new University library.

LYNCHBURG. The chapter's annual
banquet took place on Feb. 17 at the Fine
Arts Center. Cecil W. Taylor, 39, ‘41L,
president of the chapter, introduced the
guest speaker, Waller T. (Beau) Dudley,
74, “79L, who is this year’s student
government president at Washington and
Lee. Dudley gave a talk on W&L from the
point of view of a student and a student
officer. Edward S. Graves, 30, was
awarded the annual Lynchburg Citation
for his outstanding service to the
community, the chapter, and to
Washington and Lee. After a short
business session, the following slate of

22

 

 

BALTIMORE—At luncheon are
(left to right) Nick Simmons, ’64;
Jim Dawson, ’68, '71L; Bill Hartog,
admissions director; Butch House,
59; Jim Maffitt, 64, 66L; and
Rick Uhlig, 63.

BALTIMORE—Dining are (left
to right) William M. Canby, '52;
Charles C. Stieff I, 45; Trustee

Frank C. Brooks, ’46; and C.
William Pacy I, ’50.

 

PALMETTO—New chapter officers
are (left to right) Claude M.
Walker Jr., 71, treasurer; J.
Hagood Ellison Jr., ‘72, vice
president; and Addison G. (Joe)
Wilson, ‘69, president.

PALMETTO—Chapter President
John W. Folsom, ’73, presents
porcelain bowl to South Carolina
Gov. James B. Edwards (second
from left) in appreciation for his
hospitality to WL alumni and
friends during exhibit of Herreshoff
paintings and Reeves porcelain

in Columbia on Nov. 15. Left is
Arlen Cotter, aW&L parent; right
is Philip G. Grose Jr., 60, former
chapter president.

 

 

 

LYNCHBURG—New chapter
officers (left to right) are E. Starke
Sydnor, ’66, '73L, president;
George E. Calvert Jr., °73, secre-
tary-treasurer; and William C.
Washburn Jr., '66, vice president.

 

DETROIT— Officers of the

newly formed chapter are (left to
right) John F. Mozena, ’67, vice
president; James W. Large, ’68,
president; and Thomas J. Gage, ’70,
secretary-treasurer.

 

LYNCHBURG—Chapter Presi-
dent Cecil W. Taylor, ’39, ’41L,
presents the Lynchburg Citation to
Edward S. Graves, 30, WéL law
professor. In foreground is William
C. Washburn Jr., "66.

 

PHILADELPHIA—Luncheon
speaker Gary H. Dobbs III, 70,
biology professor; Gary W.
Seldomridge, ’76, and Bruce C.
Lee, 71, who presided.

 

WISCONSIN— Officers of the new
Wisconsin chapter are (left to right)
David R. Braun, ’76, vice president;
Price M. Davis Jr., 36, president;
and Thomas H. Baumann, ’76,
secretary-treasurer.

officers was elected: E. Starke Sydnor, ’66,
‘73L, president; William C. Washburn Jr.,

‘66, vice president; and George E. Calvert:
Jr., 73, secretary-treasurer.

PHILADELPHIA. The chapter’s annual
winter luncheon meeting took place on
Feb. 21 at the Racquet Club. Bruce C.
Lee, ‘71, presided over the meeting and
presented a report on the activities of the
local Alumni Admissions Group. Gary H.
Dobbs III, ’70, assistant professor of
biology at Washington and Lee, was the
guest speaker. He spoke on the advisor-
advisee system at W&L and encouraged
the alumni to use the facts and figures he
provided to help in their student
recruitment efforts. Guests of the chapter
included Leroy C. (Buddy) Atkins, ’68,
assistant alumni secretary; Edwin J. Foltz,
‘40L, national president of the W&L
Alumni Association; and E. Stewart Epley,
‘49, regional development associate of the
Board of Trustees.

LITTLE ROCK. William F. Rector Jr.,
‘70, president of the chapter, and his wife,
Susan, gave a cocktail party in their home
on March 14. Guests of the chapter
included William C. Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary, and Mrs. Washburn: and
Milbourn K. Noell Jr., 51, a development
staff associate, and Mrs. Noell.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. A large
number of chapter members attended an
alumni luncheon on March 15 at the
Shreveport Club. John M. Madison Jr.,
64, president of the chapter, presided
over the meeting and expressed a special
welcome to a chapter member for many
years, Judge Edward L. Gladney Jr., 19,
from Bastrop. Madison announced plans
for another chapter function in April for
those students from the area who have
been admitted to Washington and Lee. He
also announced the members of a
nominating committee which will report
on a slate of new officers for the next year
at the April meeting. William C.
Washburn, ‘40, alumni secretary, gave a
brief report on the University and
Lexington.

23

 

 

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$85.00’f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$70.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your
name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

24

1918

Isaac H. Woopson is a retired rural mail carrier
and resides in Glasgow, Va.

1919

JupGE Epwarp LEE GLADNEY JR. retired in
January 1979 as judge of the Second Circuit Court
of Appeals of the State of Louisiana. He and his
wife reside in Bastrop, La.

1924

Dr. NICHOLAS GOTTEN, after practicing
medicine in Memphis, Tenn., for 44 years, served
as interim director of Brooks Memorial Art Gallery
in Overton Park until the new director arrived in
January. Dr. Gotten has been a member of the
Brooks board for 10 years.

1925
Dr. ANDREW T. Roy toured the People’s Republic
of China in September and October. While in
Hong Kong, he visited with five W&L exchange
students at the Chinese University.

Dr. WILLIAM L. WOOLFOLK retired in December
1976 after practicing as an ear, nose, and throat
specialist for more than 44 years in Owensboro,
Ky.

Dr. CHARLES W. Lowry continues to teach at
Wallace O’Neal Day School in Pinehurst, N.C.
He also writes a weekly newspaper column.

1927

J. PAUL BUMGARDNER retired in 1975 as vice
president and general counsel for Southern Title
Insurance Co. of Knoxville, Tenn.

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON of Meridian, Miss., has
been appointed a commissioner to the National
Institute of Justice of the American Bar Associa-
tion.

1928

MAXWELL P. WILKINSON has had a long journalis-
tic career with varied experiences. After being
fiction editor with the New York Times and Colliers
magazine between 1930 and 1942, he became
managing editor of Hearst magazine and stayed in
this position until 1944. Between 1944 and 1948 he
was an assistant with Samuel Goldwyn Produc-
tions. From 1949 until 1965, when he retired, he
was owner and operator of Max Wilkinson Associ-
ates Literary Agency.

1929

RICHARD D. CARVER, who is also with the Carver
Insurance Service of Troy, Ohio, has been in the

 

investment securities business for the last two
years.

ASA MOORE JANNEY has retired from the retail
business. He and his brother, Werner, expect to
publish a book entitled, John Jay Janney’s Vir-
ginia.

ROBERT W. Pua has retired after 50 years of law
practice in Memphis, Tenn. He and his wife spend
considerable time in St. Petersburg, Fla., and
they also have a cruiser which they keep on Pick-
wick Lake in Tennessee.

1930

Epwarbp F. PILLey of El Paso, Texas, is retired
and writes that he is active in his church and finds
his home upkeep a full time job.

GILBERT V. ROSENBERG is semi-retired after 40
years of service with the National Labor Relations
Board. He resides in Washington, D. C.

1932

In ceremonies last May in Charleston Dr. JACK J.
STARK of Belpre, Ohio, was named West Virginia's
Doctor of the Year. The honor was bestowed upon
Dr. Stark by the West Virginia Academy of Family
Physicians. He was awarded the honor-in recogni-
tion of a life time of service as a dedicated family
physician. In addition to his private practice, Stark
is a physician and surgeon at the Camden-Clark
Memorial Hospital., a member of the hospital's
board of trustees, and a former chief of staff there.
He is currently a national representative to the
Boy Scouts of America at the national office.

GILBERT V. ROSENBERG (See 1930.)

1933

FRANK E. CALHOUN, whose hobbies include
woodworking and pottery, is attending Jacksonville
University in a course on glass blowing. He resides
in Jacksonville.

1934

THOMASSON M. BOLAND and his wife Sibyl were
recently honored by their community in Village
Mills, Texas. The couple was named the recipient
of the 1978 Community Service Award by the
Wildwood Civic Club. Boland, a Du Pont retiree,
has special interest in the volunteer fire depart-
ment and the promotion of community safety. He
is the retiring president of the local chapter of the
American Association of Retired People. Boland’s
wife was cited for her work in the Garden Club and
she is the retiring president of the Civic Club.

Dr. Victor F. MARSHALL, who was recently suc-
ceeded by Dr. Darracott Vaughan, ‘61, as professor
of urology at Cornell University Medical College,
was made an honorary fellow of the Royal College
of Surgeons in Ireland this past November.

 

EDWIN H. PEWETT is practicing law in Washing-
ton, D. C., as a partner in the firm of Glassie,
Pewett, Beebe & Shanks. He and his wife, Ger-
trude, have three sons.

1935

GEORGE McCGEorRY is a retired restaurant owner

in Garrison, N. Y. He enjoys his winters golfing in
Florida and California.

1936

THOMAS H. ALPHIN, assistant vice president of
Health Affairs-Administration, has been appointed
chairman of the Institutional Review Board for
Human Use at the University of Alabama in Bir-
mingham. Alphin will be responsible for leadership
in balancing the needs of investigators conducting
research programs against the requirement for
protecting the welfare of people as subjects of
research. Besides his administrative position, Al-
phin holds academic appointments as professor of
public health and of hospital and health admini-
stration. Before coming to the University of Ala-
bama in Birmingham, Alphin served in a number
of significant governmental positions, including
director of medical services administration, state
of Alabama. He also served as director of Washing-
ton, D. C., office of the American Medical As-
sociation.

1937

C. A. BUTTERWORTH JR. of Tallahassee, Fla., is a
fiscal and securities analyst for the Florida Depart-
ment of Transportation.

ROBERT E. GRAHAM, a newly appointed member
of the South Carolina Commission on Higher
Education, visits many of the state’s colleges for
on-sight inspections of buildings. He is also chair-
man of two committees, one dealing with two-year
institutions and the other dealing with transfer
students. Graham, a resident of Sumter, S. C.,
served as mayor of the city from 1964 to 1972.
Besides his real estate business, he is a member of
the Sumter Board of Realtors, past president of the
Sumter Chamber of Commerce and a trustee of
Toumey Hospital and Southern Seminary Junior
College. Graham served with the Sumter County
Commission on Higher Education before his ap-
pointment to the state agency by Gov. James B.
Edwards.

PARKE S. ROUSE JR., executive director of the
Jamestown Foundation in Williamsburg, Va., has
been elected secretary of the Bicentennial Council
of the Thirteen Original States Fund, Inc. As an
author, Rouse has written several books, including
the Great Wagon Road; Planters and Pioneers:
Life in Colonial Virginia; and Virginia: The English
Heritage in America. He has been a recipient of
the Freedom Foundation Award, Meritorious
Service Award of the Virginia Travel Council, and
the Public Relations Award of Richmond Public
Relations Association.

LAWRENCE W. WILSON JpR., a traveling repre-
sentative for Blue Bell, Inc., began his 44th year
with the firm this past January. Wilson resides in
Manakin Sabot, Va.

1938

FRANK L. PRICE, past national president of the
Society of Former Special Agents of the F.B.1., is
serving as chairman of the Former Agents of the
F.B.I. Foundation.

Dr. CHARLES M. WILLIAMS, a professor at the
Harvard Business School since 1947, expects to
spend the spring semester of 1979 in Switzerland
where he will teach in Harvard’s International
Senior Managers Program. His wife, Betty, will
accompany him.

1939

W. P. MCCLAIN BowMAN of Greenville, Miss.,
recently formed a private corporation for the pur-
pose of oil and gas development. He is also engaged
in the operation of a family real estate development
firm and a cotton plantation.

MELVIN E.. CRUSER JR. of Virginia Beach is teach-
ing inertial navigation to submarine officers.

CHARLES L. GUTHRIE continues to teach English
to American high school students at Torrejon Air
Base in Spain.

WALLER C. HArRpy JR. is on the advisory board to
the president of Parkersburg (W.Va.) Community
College. He is also a member of the Mid-Ohio
Valley Regional Council and a member of the Par-
kersburg-Grafton Presbyteries Fund Committee
for the United Presbyterian Church U.S.A.

W. Roy Hocan is'actively pursuing the energy
business. He is a consulting petroleum geologist
and operates out of Witchita Falls, Texas.

GEORGE C. KERR is with General Adjustment
Bureau Services Inc. and travels throughout the
United States making adjustments in major insur-
ance losses. He and his wife, Florence, lived in
Rockland County, N. Y., for 22 years. They have
recently moved to Lakehurst, N. J.

1940

Dr. G. WATSON JAMES III is professor of medicine
at the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond
and is chairman of the hematology division.

LORENZO C. LEwIs received his B.S. degree in
forestry from the University of Michigan in 1948.
Since then, he has been self employed as a con-
sulting forester working in northern Virginia and
Maryland.

1942

RoBERT D. GAGE III is president of the Mississippi
25

 

 

Bankers Association. Gage resides in Port Gibson,
Miss.

JOHN B. MACBRIDE has retired from the advertis-
ing department of Johns-Manville Corp. He plans
to write a book on Bunny Berigan and the Big
Band Era.

FLOYD K. YEOMANS is still working for the Aetna
Life & Casualty Co. and resides in Milton, Wis.
He also is in the tree nursery business. He writes
that he plans to retire from the insurance business
in 1980 and enjoy traveling, hunting, fishing, and
tennis.

1943

WILLIAM H. ARMSTRONG is director of Jennison
Associates in New York City. The firm manages
pension funds. Armstrong resides in Greenwich,
Conn.

1945

NEAL N. HERNDON Jr. has been pastor of the
Bethlehem Presbyterian Church in Cornwall,
N. Y., since February 1969.

Dr. ROBERT M. SINSKEY of Santa Monica, Calif. ,
has conducted, during this past year, cataract and
intraocular lens courses both in Poland and Rio.

1946

ROBERT J. SMITH is an attorney in Richmond anda
substitute judge in Henrico County Juvenile and
Domestic Relations District Court.

1948

EDGAR D. HOLLaDAay is an investment analyst at
Merchants National Bank and Trust Co. in In-
dianapolis, Ind.

1949

JULIAN C. OsBorneE has retired as a political and
labor writer for the Roanoke Times and World
News. Osborne has been with Times-World Corp.
for over 28 years.

KENNETH H. WACKER is with the Government
Products Division of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in
West Palm Beach, Fla. Wacker has been with
Pratt & Whitney for 21 years. This past May,
Wacker and his wife, Leah, took a tour of the Far
East including Singapore, Thailand, Hong Kong,
Macau, Taiwan and Japan:

1950

GERALD A. BURCHELL is chairman of the science
department of Kingswood Regional Junior High
School in Wolfboro, N. H.

MARION G. (PAT) ROBERTSON, head of the Chris-

26

 

T. L. Janney, 53

tian Broadcasting Network, is the operator and
host on the 700 Club, a 90 minute daily TV talk
show. The 700 Club began in the early 1960's with
700 contributors. Today the original “partners”
has grown to thousands. While the program is on
the air, viewers are invited to call the stations
where some member of the staff will counsel and
give a kind word. There are now 30 cities which
have 700 Club counseling centers.

HOWARD L. STEELE has completed a year as pro-
ject manager for USAID in Bolivia. The program is
an agriculture diversification project with U.S.
support, the purpose of which is to assist small
Bolivian farmers to develop an alternate crop to
coca.

J. ARTHUR Woop Jr. has been named director of
member relations in the public relations depart-
ment of the U. S. Independent Telephone As-
sociation. Wood's additional duties will include
identifying public relations needs of member com-
panies and handling programs to meet those needs.
He will continue to handle USITA membership
matters, liaison with state telephone associations
and will be responsible for public relations liaison
with other telephone industry associations. Wood
joined USITA in 1964. He has served as political
cartoonist for several newspapers.

ROBERT J. SMITH (See 1946.)

1951

PRESTON M. BROWNING JR. is associate professor
of English and chairman of the Religious Studies
Program at the University of Illinois at Chicago
Circle. During the academic year 1977-78 he was
Senior Fulbright Lecturer in American Literature
at the University Kiril i Metodij, in Skopje, Yugo-
slavia..The Brownings and their four children
learned the language and his wife, Ann, spent
much of her time learning about Byzantine frescoes
and teaching conversational English at the local
Pedagogical Academy.

WILLIAM L. DAVIDSON lives in Tarzana, Calif.,
and is taking extension courses at Fuller Theologi-
cal Seminary.

LESTER I. LEVINE, an attorney in Orlando, has
been elected chairman of the Florida Board of Bar
Examiners. His term of office will extend through
December 31, 1979. Levine has been a member of
the Florida Bar since 1957, and a member of the
Florida Board of Bar Examiners since 1969. In
addition to his law practice, Levine is chairman of
the Board of Creative Medical Concepts, Inc.,
which is a holding corporation for subsidiaries en-
gaged in operating respiratory therapy depart-
ments in hospitals located in 14 states, comput-
erized electrocardiographic services and sales of
medical equipment and supplies.

1952

RICHARD B. BAKER is president of the insurance

 

firm of Myers-Baker & Co. Inc. based in Arlington
Heights, IIl.

Dr. E. A. HANSBARGER is practicing pathology in
Charleston, W. Va., where he directs four labora-
tories. He is on the council of the Kanawha Medical
Society.

THE REV. ROBERT D. SCHENKEL JR. is rector of
the Church of The Good Shepherd in Nashua,
N. H. This past year he was appointed a commis-
sioner of the Nashua Housing Authority and was
elected to serve on the Standing Committee of the
Diocese of New Hampshire.

1953
MARRIAGE: I. M. SHEFFIELD III and Ilse Acton
of Augusta, Ga., on Oct. 27, 1978. Sheffield is vice
president of the Life Insurance Co. of Georgia.
The couple resides in Atlanta.

Dr. A. ROGER CHAPPELKA retired from the U. S.
Navy with the rank of captain in February 1978,
after 22 years of service. His last duty was as chief
of medicine and gastroenterology at the Naval
Hospital in Philadelphia. Since September he has
been associate professor of medicine at Jefferson
Medical University. He is also the corporate
medical director of Rohm & Haas.

TYSON L. JANNEY, executive vice president of
Richardson, Myers & Donofrio, Inc., a Baltimore,
Md., advertising agency, has been appointed a
trustee of the Colgate Darden Graduate Business
School Sponsors of the University of Virginia. He
will participate in setting policy for the activities of
the Sponsors, a private, non-profit organization
which provides funds and other support to the
university's graduate business school. He is a past
president of the Darden School Alumni Association
and is a member of the Maryland Club and the
Virginians of Maryland.

JOHN R. LAWSON Jr. became a partner in the firm
of Dixon, Lawson & Brown in Tampa, Fla., this
past January.

RODNEY F. STOCK JR. was reassigned this past
August to the Reno, Nev., Police Detective Divi-
sion as commander of fraud, fugitive, and auto
theft units.

1954

Dr. A. RUSSELL BRENNEMAN is practicing derma-
tology in Hartford, Conn.

BERTRAM S. GRIFFITH of Grand Rapids, Mich., is
sales manager for the Flint branch of Welcor, Inc.,
one of the largest copier dealerships in Michigan.
He and his wife have four children.

Dr. Roy C. HERRENKOHL JR., professor of social
relations and director of the Center for Social Re-
search at Lehigh University, has been granted a

 

 

D, M. Berlinghof, 55 W. R. Welch, ’57

sabbatical for the spring and fall semesters of 1979
by Lehigh. Herrenkohl is writing a book which
summarizes his research on child development
and family dynamics. He earned his Ph.D. in psy-
chology from New York University following study
at the University of Reading in England and Union
Theological Seminary. Herrenkohl has been on
the Lehigh faculty since 1966.

THE REv. J. FLETCHER LOWE Jp. is actively in-
volved in the state’s juvenile justice system. The
Richmond City Council appointed him to the Youth
Services Commission and also to the Citizen’s Ad-
visory Committee: Juvenile and Domestic Rela-
tions Court. Lowe has also served on the Virginia
Legislative Advisory Commission’s Committee on
Youthful Offenders as well as on the Virginia State
Crime Commission’s Task Force on prevention
and diversion of juvenile offenders.

JAMES R. TRIMM of Potomac, Md., has been elected
to a second term as a member of the House of
Delegates of the American Bar Association.

1955

H. CHRISTOPHER ALEXANDER III has been prac-
ticing rheumatology in Roanoke, Va. » since 1968.

He is married to the former Mary Cosby Colley
and the couple has three children. '
DavipD M. BERLINGHOF has been eee to
vice president of Cargill Investor Services, Inc.,
with offices in Atlanta.

LAURENCE LEVITAN has been elected by the
Maryland General Assembly to the Senate’s Bud-
get and Taxation Committee.

Dr. THOMAS W. ROBBINS Jr. is director of Ad-
vanced Clinical Research at Merck Sharp & Dohme
Research Laboratories in Rahway, N. J. He was
married on Aug. 5, 1978, and the family resides in
East Windsor.

JOHN R. LAWSON Jr. (See 1953.)

1956
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN L. HARE JR., a

second son, Patrick Lee on Jan. 5, 1979, in Rock
Hill, S. C.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD W. ROCKEL, a
son, Douglas Webb, on Feb. 12, 1978. Rockel has
recently been elected president of Cincinnati
(Ohio) Food Broker Association.

DANIEL B. THOMPSON is assistant plant manager
for Campbell Soup Co. in Napoleon, Ohio. He and
his wife, Pam, have a son and a daughter.

1957

LT. COL. CHARLES J. BALDREE is serving as an
administrative judge with the U. S. Army Board of
Contract Appeals, Europe in Heidelberg, Ger-

 

W. C. Floyd, 59

many. He is chairman of the Transatlantic Council’s
Religious Awards Committee and received the
National Catholic Committee on Scouting Saint
George Emblem for outstanding service to Catholic
Scouts in Europe. He and his wife have two
daughters.

JACKSON R. COLLINS JR. is a senior accountant
with the C.P.A. firm of Cover and Rossiter, P.A.
in Wilmington, Del.

H. GREIG CUMMINGS JR., a vice president of the
investment firm of Legg, Mason, Wood, Walker,
Inc., of Washington, D. C., has been elected sec-
retary of the Foundation of the Boy’s Club of
Greater Washington.

GAVIN G. K. LETTs is judge of Florida’s Fourth
District Court of Appeals.

I. N. SMITH Jr. has been promoted to the position
of executive vice president with Kanawha Banking
and Trust Co. of Charleston, W. Va. Smith will
work directly with the president and chief execu-
tive officer in asset liability management and cor-
porate planning. He joined KB&T in 1960 and was
promoted to vice president and director in 1965.
Smith was elected senior vice president in 1973
and took on administration of the bank’s loan acti-
vities. Smith is president and director of West
Virginia Coal Land Co. and secretary-treasurer of
Roxalana Land Co. He is married to the former
Stuart Lewis of Bluefield and the couple has four
children.

CHARLES R. THOMPSON is vice president and di-
rector of Tucker, Anthony and R. L. Day, an in-
vestment banking firm in Locust Valley, N. Y. He
specializes in institutional sales. He and his wife,
the former Elizabeth Blakey, have three children.

WARREN R. WELSH has been appointed director
of corporate security for American Can Co. of
Greenwich, Conn. He has been with the FBI,
NBC and ITT and most recently was director of
corporate security for Playboy Enterprises in
Chicago. Welsh resides in Ridgefield, Conn.

MARRIAGE: Dr. WILLIAM S. HARRISON and
Kathy Estes of Norfolk, Va., on Nov. 22, 1978. The
couple resides in Edgewater, Md.

RICHARD F.. CUMMINS is president of Cumberland
Oil Co. and Cumberland Terminals in Nashville,
Tenn., one of the major independent petroleum
marketers with more than a 6 million gallon storage
capacity. He and his wife, Polly, have three chil-
dren.

WILLIAM C. FLoyp has been appointed district
manager of the casualty-property commercial lines
department of Travelers Insurance Co. in Yonkers,
N. Y. He has been with Travelers since 1962.
Floyd resides in Stony Point, N. Y.

1960

SANDY C. MARKS Jr. is a professor of anatomy at
the University of Massachusetts. In August 1978
he returned from a years sabbatical at the Univer-
sity of Malaya at Kuala Lumpur where he was on
the medical faculty and did research on the cellular
basis for bone loss in leprosy.

THOMAS P. O'BRIEN JR. of Cincinnati is in the
U. S. Army Reserves and this past summer was at
Ft. Hood, Texas with the 135th JAG detachment.
While there he met Rick Anderson, "73L, who was
also participating in the training program.

Dr. JOHN R. PLEASANT JR. is associate professor
in the English department at Southeastern Louis-
iana in Hammond, La. He and his wife, the former
Martha Kirk Wofford, have three children.

I. N. SMITH JR. (See 1957.)

1961

J. HARVEY ALLEN Jr. has been named president
of the J. H. Allen Co. by the board of directors and
stockholders at their annual meeting. Allen suc-
ceeds his father, who was named chairman of the
board. The 78-year-old company, a manufacturers
representative for plumbing, hardware, industrial
and oil field supplies, has just completed the re-
location of its headquarters from Fort Worth to
Dallas. The J. H. Allen Co. now occupies a specially
designed office and warehouse building developed
by Industrial Properties Corp. of Dallas. The new
facility and location gives the firm greater access to
the customers it serves and space for expansion of
represented lines. The firm serves Texas, Okla-
homa and Southeastern New Mexico.

STEPHEN P. DEGENHARDT is in the Indianapolis
area where he is manager of two Westvaco U. S.
Envelope Division plants. He is also to assist in
building a new plant which is to be in operation in
September 1979.

1962

HARRY G. BALLANCE Jk. is a captain with Delta
Air Lines and is currently in the flight training
department as a flight instructor and check pilot on
the McDonnel-Douglas DC-8. He and his wife,
Carol, and four children reside in Atlanta, Ga.

RAWSON FOREMAN is a partner in the Atlanta law
firm of Jones, Bird, & Howell. He also serves as
vice president of the Atlanta Legal Aid Society and
serves on the board of sponsors for the High
Museum of Art.

LESLIE H. PEARD III, formerly with Eastman
Kodak Co., has joined E. F. Hutton & Co. He and.
his family reside in Fresno, Calif.

1963

A. JUDSON BABCOCK is president of T.H.A., Inc.,

2d

 

a construction and management firm in Waitsfield,
Vt. He and his wife, Helna, have a daughter,
Isabel, born Feb. 9, 1978.

JOHN H. MULLIN III has been elected a managing
director of Dillon, Read & Co. Inc. of New York

City.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. MARMION,
Jr., a daughter, Liza, in November 1978. Marmion
is academic dean at Emma Willard School in Troy,
N. Y.

ROBERT C. FARRAR JR. earned his MBA in 1972
from American University. He is currently special
projects officer for the U. S. Senate Computer
Center. He and his wife, Linda, have two daugh-
ters.

SMITH HICKENLOOPER III and his wife, Susan,
live in Cincinnati where they are both pursuing
careers as investment counselors.

Dr. COTTON RAWLS JR. spent his latest vacation
touring Norway, Sweden and Denmark. He is
employed at the executive headquarters of the
Fotomat Corp. in Stamford, Conn.

JACK YARBROUGH, after working for United Air
Lines for seven years, joined the staff of Central
States Funds in June 1974. In November 1977 he
was promoted to assistant executive director re-
sponsible for administrative management of the
funds’ operations. He resides in Chicago.

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EUGENE L. PEARCE III, a
third daughter, Anne Woolsey, on July 24, 1978.
Pearce has been promoted to vice president in
charge of personal trust portfolio management in

the investment counseling division of Atlanta’s
C & S National Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THomMas L. WOODWARD
JR., ason, Thomas L. Woodward III, on Dec. 16,
1978. Woodward is a practicing attorney in Suffolk,
Va.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES N. GRIFFIN, a
third son, Edwin Alexander, on Nov. 10, 1978.
Griffin and his family reside in Sao Paulo, Brazil,
where he is operations manager for Kodak Brasile-
ira, Ltda.

ANDREW N. BAUER, formerly executive vice
president, has been elected president and chief
operating officer of St. Louis County Bank in St.
Louis, Mo. Bauer joined St. Louis County Bank in
January 1978 as executive vice president and as a
member of its board of directors. Formerly he had
been president and chief executive officer of Com-
merce Bank of St. Louis and prior to that, vice

28

 

president at Mercantile Trust Co. He started his
banking career at the First National Bank of At-
lanta. His professional and community activities
include serving as treasurer of KETC-TV, and as a
member of the board of directors of Webster Col-
lege, St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis
County Business Development Committee, and
the St. Louis Council on World Affairs.

WILLIAM T. DEyoO JR. was recently named group
vice president at the First National Bank of Atlanta.
Deyo joined the bank in 1967 in the Southeastern
division as commercial officer and assistant vice
president. He was promoted to vice president in
1972. Currently, Deyo is head of the commercial
division responsible for 17 officers calling on mid-
market companies throughout the Southeast. He
is a member of the Atlanta Athletic Club. Deyo
and his wife, Donna, have two children.

JOHN C. HENSLEY JR. received his Chartered Life
Underwriter designation in 1977. In July 1978 he
was elected president of Projected Planning Co..,
Inc., in St. Louis, Mo. He and his wife, Anne, who
is a guidance counselor at Webster Groves High
School, have a son, Scott.

MICHAEL E. LAWRENCE is director of manage-
ment consulting services for the international ac-
counting firm of Ernst and Ernst. He resides in
Atlanta with his wife and 5-year-old daughter,
Catherine.

SYDNEY LEWIS JR. operates a chain of five outlet
clothing stores called The General Store. The
stores, located principally in the Washington,
D. C. area, specialize in Lee and Levi jeans.

Dr. GERARD T. TAYLOR has been promoted to
research scientist V in the process development
section of the chemical research division for Nor-
wich-Eaton Pharmaceuticals. Taylor has been with
Norwich-Eaton since 1973. He received the M.S.
in 1969 and Ph.D. in 1971 from Cornell, where he
also performed his post-doctoral research. Taylor
and his wife, Rebecca, reside in Norwich, N. Y..,
with their children, Amanda, age 6, and Benjamin,
age 3. Taylor is amember of the American Chemi-
cal Society and co-author of 10 published papers in
chemical research.

1967
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STUART FINESTONE, a
daughter, Marcy Leigh, on July 23, 1978. The
Finestones and son, Jason, age 5, reside in At-
lanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and MRS. BENJAMIN D. S. GAMBILL
JR., ason, Benjamin Drake Smith III, on Dec. 11,
1978. Ben is associated with Baird Electric Co. in
Nashville, Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS J. HARDIN II, a
son, Jeff, on Aug. 14, 1978, in Charlotte. Hardin is
a vice president in the investment division of North
Carolina National Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM S. WILDRICK, a
daughter, Ashley Elizabeth, on March 14, 1978.
Wildrick is an independent real estate broker in
San Diego and is also involved in investments in
Costa Rica. The Wildricks have a son, Tad, age 3.

Capt. WILLIAM T. CUNNINGHAM is attending the
graduate course at the Judge Advocate General’s
School of the Army in Charlottesville. After a year
there, he will receive a new duty station in June

1979.

WILLIAM R. BABCOCK is president of Virginia Real
Estate Services, Inc., a state-wide firm selling
homes for a flat fee rather than a commission. He
resides in Richmond.

P. ROWLAND GREENWADE has been reappointed
counsel to Sen. Betty Andujar for the current ses-
sion of the Texas State Legislature. Greenwade
resides in Austin.

ROBERT L. HOLT has opened a second office for
the practice of periodontics in Boca Raton, Fla. He
still maintains his office in West Palm Beach, which
is his home.

ANDREW H. LupPToOn became vice president of the
Academy for Educational Development and di-
rector of its management division in June 1978.
His division provides consultation to colleges and
universities with managerial, financial, informa-
tional, and planning problems.

WARREN E. STEWART is head of Ed Yarding and
Associates, an advertising firm he started six years
ago in San Antonio after moving from New York.
The firm directed the successful re-election cam-
paign of Sen. John Tower and also assisted in the
election of Gov. Clements, the first Republican to
hold that office in Texas since Reconstruction. Ste-
wart also helped found the San Antonio Lacrosse
Club in 1973, a member of the 13 team Texas
Lacrosse League. He and his wife, Brooks, have
two daughters, McHenry Chapman, age 3, and
Anna Chase, 5 months.

1968
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. KENNETH M. FINK, a

daughter, Megan Poynter, on May 17, 1978, in
Huntington, W. Va.

Dr. PAUL C. ATWATER completed a year of gen-
eral surgery residency and is now a resident in
otolaryngology at the Emory University Grady
Hospital in Atlanta. Atwater is performing more
specialized training there after several years of
general and emergency medical practice.

Dr. PAUL A. BROWER has completed his chief
residency in urology at UCLA and has joined the
South Coast Urologic Group in South Laguna,
Calif.

JOHN R. NAZZARO is executive director of the

 

United Way for Northern Fairfield County. He
resides in Danbury, Conn.

1969
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES M. CHANCE, ason,
Henry M. IV, on Nov. 28, 1978. Chance is a
biometrician for Ichthyological Associates in Ber-
wick, Pa.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. H. WarpD Dorer, twins,
Craig Stephen and Karen Ruth, on Sept. 20, 1978.
The Dorers reside in West Orange, N. J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. FLETCHER F. MAYNARD
JR., a son, Fletcher Fitzgerald III, on June 10,
1978. Maynard is vice president of the First Ten-
nessee Bank in Memphis, with primary responsi-
bilities in the correspondent bank department.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN G. SIMMONS, a
daughter, Sarah Elizabeth, on May 21, 1978. Sim-
mons completed his residency in otolaryngology at
Tulane Medical School in June 1978 and is now in
practice with his father in Jasper, Ala.

TIMOTHY R. ASKEW JR. has been made a partner
in the Atlanta law firm of Arnall, Golden and
Gregory. -

J. Ricks CARSON III teaches English grammar and
literature and European culture courses-at Pace
Academy in Atlanta, Ga. He also coaches a Metro
Conference soccer team and teaches evening
classes in German at Emory. Carson is studying
for his Ph.D. in comparative literature at Emory.

WILLIAM C,. CHUMLEA, after receiving his Ph.D.
in physical anthropology from the University of
Texas, is now residing in Jamestown, Ohio, where
he is a research scientist at Fels Research Institute,
Dept. of Pediatrics, Wright State University
School of Medicine in Yellow Springs, Ohio.

JERALD L. PERLMAN is a partner in the law firm of
Blanchard, Walker, O’Quin & Roberts. Perlman,
his wife, Frances, and children, Louise, age 5, and
Lee, age 3, reside in Shreveport, La.

C. CRAWFORD WILLIAMS has been a partner for
six years in the law firm of Lowe and Williams. The
firm has two Birmingham offices, one in Ensley
and another in Mountain Brook Village.

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN D. (JACK) BAIZLEY, a
son, John Dyer Jr., on Oct. 10, 1978. The family
resides in Sewickley, Pa., where Baizley works for
Ticor Mortgage Ins. Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RICHARD DEFRONZO, a
daughter, Jennifer Kathryn on Feb. 26, 1978. De-
Fronzo is head of the tax department in the Van
Nuys, Calif., office of Alexander Grant and Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL C. G. NEER, a

son, Tyler Larson, on Aug. 11, 1978. Neer is in his
third season as basketball coach at the University
of Rochester.

Maj. CHARLES G. FRANK is staff pediatrician at
Ireland Army Hospital, Fort Knox, Ky. He com-
pleted his residency at Tripler Army Medical Cen-
ter in Hawaii, where his daughter, Stephanie, age
2, was born.

BRUCE A. MEYERS is working in the planning
division of the Arizona Department of Transporta-
tion. He resides in Mesa.

Dr. BRUCE S. SAMUELS has been appointed clini-
cal instructor in community medicine at the Tulane
University Medical School. Samuels resides in New
Orleans.

1971
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES R. ALLEN, a son,
Daniel Joseph, on March 20, 1978. Allen is an
audit manager for Price Waterhouse and Co. in
Washington.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRUCE W. KEIHNER, a
son, Paul Frederick, on Jan. 3, 1979. Keihner is a
legal affairs officer for the Southeast Banking Corp.
in Miami.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. GREGORY TINAGLIA, a
daughter, Karen Catherine, on Oct. 17, 1978. The
Tinaglias reside in Roanoke.

FRANK G. DavIpsoN has entered into partnership
with his father to form a new law firm of Davidson
and Davidson in Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. HuGu F. Hixu III will move to Washington
in the summer of 1979 to join the legal medicine
department of the Armed Forces Institute of Path-
ology. Presently Hill resides in rural Gum Spring,
Va., with his wife, Sandy, and a menagerie of dogs
and cats.

CAPT. GORDON S. MCRAE is stationed at Fort
Bragg, N. C., as chief of the combat intelligence
section of the 705 Military Intelligence Detach-
ment with the airborne special forces there.

G. LEE MILLAR III and ROGER L. YOUNG were
reunited at the McGeorge School of Law of the
University of the Pacific in Sacramento, Calif.
Millar is attending under a program with an option
to return to active duty with the Army. Young is
attending under the Air Force Legal Education
Program and will become a judge advocate for the
Air Force with a six year minimum service obliga-
tion when he graduates.

STAMAN OGILVIE has been appointed vice presi-
dent of Gerald D. Hines interest in Houston,
Texas. Hines is a large industrial and commercial
development firm. Ogilvie has current project
development responsibilities including two office

buildings and one hotel in Houston and one office
building in Spokane, Wash.

ROBERT R. RADCLIFFE received a masters degree
in agricultural and resource economics from the
University of Maine in 1974. He worked as a re-
search assistant for the Vermont State Energy Of-
fice and then as a policy analyst for the Maine
Office of Energy Resources. Radcliffe designed
and implemented an energy audit program for use
in schools. In May 1978 he joined two colleagues
to found American Energy Services, a firm
specializing in computer based analyses of energy
conservation potential in buildings and in providing
management information systems for states con-
ducting audit programs. Radcliffe resides in Bos-
ton.

CLYDE E. (Tripp) SMITH III was presented the
1979 Distinguished Service Award by the Mar-
tinsburg-Berkeley County Jaycees at ceremonies
on Jan. 27, 1979. Smith, an insurance agent. with
Smith-Nadenbousch of Martinsburg, received the
award for his work in the Jaycees, United Way,
Chamber of Commerce, Downtown Martinsburg
Association, the Berkeley County Jr. Athletic As-
sociation, and the St. John’s Lutheran Church.

Dr. TIMOTHY A. STRAIT is a resident in neurolo-
gical surgery at the University of Tennessee Center
for the Health Sciences. Strait, his wife, Louise,
and their son and daughter reside in Memphis.

BATE C. Toms III had an article on corporate
acquisitions published in the April 1978 issue of
the Columbia Law Review. Toms is an attorney in
Alexandria, Va.

CALVERT S. WHITEHURST has been working since
June 1978 as director of public relations for the
Chrysler Museum in Norfolk. Previously he was a
staff writer in the advertising department of Vir-
ginia National Bank.

1972
MARRIAGE: FRANK B. BAZZEL and Barbara Lynn
Johnson on May 6, 1978, in Baltimore. Attending
the wedding were Rick Funkhouser, 66, Mark
Bromley, 71, and ’72 classmates Rick Sands, Ken
Evans, Charles Holbrook, Charles Gregory, Wil-
liam Miller, and Millard Younts.

MARRIAGE: D. RANDOLPH GRAHAM and Carolyn
Phillips on July 15, 1978, in Richmond. Graham is
western area operations manager for General
Medical Corp. The Grahams reside in Dallas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MICHAEL E. RILEY, a
daughter, Katherine Trant, on March 25, 1978.
Riley was elected vice president of Virginia Iron,
Coal and Coke Co. on Jan. 26, 1978. His responsi-
bilities are principally in sales and operations. The
Rileys reside in Roanoke.

STEPHEN D. ANNAND is a partner in the Alex-

29

  

andria, Va., law firm of Cohen, Vitt and Annand.
The firm is engaged in the general practice of law.

GRAYSON FITZHUGH has joined Akers Packaging
Co. of Middletown, Ohio, as a controller.

C. JAMES HARLAND JR. completed his two year
tour of Navy duty in June 1978. He has opened a
general dentistry practice in Richmond.

EDWARD W. LANE III has completed a year of law
school at the University of Florida after four and a
half years of duty as a line officer in the Navy.

DONALD T. MCMILLAN is now associated with the
law firm of Rivkin, Leff, and Sherman in Garden
City, N. Y. He specializes in defense litigation for
product liability.

RICHARD J. SPLITTORF has been named an account
manager for Architectural Digest, published by
Knapp Communications Corp. in Los Angeles.
Splittorf resides in Redondo Beach, Calif.

EVERETT TUCKER III has been promoted to the
position of vice president of Commercial National
Bank in Little Rock, Ark. Tucker joined the bank
in 1976 after working as a certified public account-
ant with the firm of Dobbs Albright & Co.

WILLIAM H. WEST JR. is assistant vice president
in the real estate finance division of the First and
Merchants National Bank in Richmond. A member
of the vestry at the Church of the Holy Comforter,
he is married and has two sons.

J. GREGORY WILSON graduated from the Univer-
sity of Arkansas School of Law at Fayetteville in
1977 and was a clerk for the Arkansas Supreme
Court. In 1978 he became vice president, general
counsel and a director of the Bank Credit Life
Insurance Co. Wilson was also elected a delegate
in 1978 to the Arkansas Constitutional Conven-
tion.

1973

MARRIAGE: Dr. TOWNSEND BROWN Jr. and
Carolyn Speir on July 8, 1978, in Bethel, N. C.
Groomsmen included Sam Brown, 76; Ben Grigs-
by, 72; Brad Kidd, ’73; Bill French, 73; and Rich-
ard Middleton, 73. Among the many W&L guests
were George Wolfe, 73; Mark Young, °73; Craig
Jones, 73; Richard Orr, ’73; Skip Booth, "72; Mark
Thompson, 73; and Rob Hillman, ’73. The couple
resides in Virginia Beach. Brown is a dentist for
the Navy stationed aboard the aircraft carrier
U.S.S. Nimitz homeported in Norfolk.

MARRIAGE: Cuar es D. Perry JR. and Sheryl
Murdock on Feb. 25, 1978, in Memphis. Attending
the wedding were Edmund Perry, ’82; Crawford
Williams, ’69; Scott Wellford, 73; Hatton Smith,
‘73; George Jones, 72; Ray Sherer, "72; Paul Mc-
Clure, "73, and Marshall Timberlake, 63. The
Perry's reside in Birmingham.

30

Norfolk.

BIRTH: Mk. and MRS. JEFFREY C. BURRIS, ason,
Ethan Robert, on March 14, 1978, in Indianapolis.
Burris works as a part time deputy prosecutor,
teaches real estate law one night per week for the
Indiana University continuing education series and
maintains his full time law practice.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT N. FARRAR, ason,
John Pennington, on Sept. 14, 1978. Farrar is an
attorney with the firm of Brinson, Askew and Berry
in Rome, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RALPH H. SMITH II, ason,
Ralph Harrison III, on Dec. 31, 1978. After at-
tending Oxford University on a Rhodes Scholar-
ship, Smith is now in his third year at Yale Law
School.

1973

JOHN RANDOLPH KELLER of Charlotte, N. C.,
successfully passed the Certified Public Account-
ant exams given by the state in November 1978.

DouGLas W. MacDoucat has become a partner
in the law firm of Ashford and Wriston in Hono-
lulu.

DENNIS E.. MYERS successfully passed the Cer-
tified Public Accountant exam in November 1978.
Myers is with the accounting firm of Deloitte Has-
kins & Sells in Charlotte. He and his wife, Janet,
have one daughter, Michele.

1974
MARRIAGE: JOHN C. WEITNAUER and Betsy
Fleetwood Barge on Aug. 19, 1978, in Atlanta.
Attending the wedding were: Doug Thomas, ’74,
‘77L; Bob Munt, 773, and Michael Cimino, ’74.
The Weitnauers reside in Decatur, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RUSSELL L. HEwIr, a
daughter, Meghan Elizabeth, on Sept. 26, 1978.
Hewit is associated with the law firm of Shanley
and Fisher in Newark, N. J. They reside in New
Providence.

DAVID V. FINNELL was promoted to captain in the
U. S. Army on Jan. 22, 1979. Finnell is stationed
at Karlsruhe, Germany.

Dr. Craic M. HANKINS is performing a residency
in orthopedic surgery at the University of Florida
Medical School.

T. BERRY LONG and his wife reside on their farm
in Apopka, Fla. The principal crops are sweet corn
and carrots marketed under the Long Farms brand
label. Long has two sons, ages 2 years and 2
months.

Dr. NEIL D. LUTINS is performing his residency
in general dentistry with the U. S. Air Force in
Fort Worth, Texas.

Dr. Townsend Brown Jr., 73, was married on July 8, 1978, to
Carolyn Speir in Bethel, N. C. In the picture (left to right) are John
Little, 73; Billy Thomas, ’76; Bob Morecock, ’75, ’78L; the groom
and bride; Walter Robertson, ’76; Brad Kidd, ’73; Jimmy Farrar,
74; Bill French, ’73; Rick Middleton, ’73; Ben Grigsby, ’72; Jack
Smith, 69; and Sam Brown, ’76. Present but not pictured were
classmates George Wolfe, Mark Young, Craig Jones, Richard Orr,
Mark Thompson, Rob Hillman, and Skip Booth, ’72. Brown is a
dentist in the U.S. Navy, stationed aboard the U.S.S. Nimitz in

DOUGLAS VACHEL MCNEEL, with offices in San
Antonio, Texas, is assistant district attorney (Ap-
peals Division) for Bexar County.

WILLIAM R. MELTON IV resides in Suffolk, Va.,
and covers Sussex County for the area bureau of
the Newport News Daily Press.

ROBERT MCELWEE RAINEY is pursuing an M.S.
degree in environmental systems engineering at
Clemson University. He expects to complete the
degree requirements in August 1979.

1975

MARRIAGE: ROBERT H. CRAWFORD and Kathe-
rine Kinsey Gray on Aug. 12, 1978, in Dallas.
Classmates Mike Burch and John Hamilton were
present. Crawford is working on a Ph.D. in French
Literature at the University of Texas, where he is
also an assistant instructor in first and second year
French.

MARRIAGE: CHANNING J. MARTIN and Mary
Anne Blair Riva on Aug. 12, 1978, in Short Hills,
N. J. Attending the wedding were Martin’s father,
Joseph B. Martin, ’49, and uncle, Dr. John O.
Martin, 51. Best man was Stanley G. Brading Jr.,
‘T9L. Also present were: Archibald C. Magee Jr.
‘79L; Douglas H. Hunt, ’75; David R. Lee, ’75;
Cheryl I. Harris, ’80L; David S. Park, ’78L:; Re-
gina M. Ednie, ’80L, and Joan M. Gardner, 80L.

CurRTIS E. BOSWELL JR. will graduate from Texas
Tech School of Law in May 1979.

STEVEN L. DAUTERMAN graduated summa cum
laude from Muskingum College in June 1975.
While there he played leading roles in a number of
campus musicals and operettas. In June 1978, he
graduated from law school at Ohio State. Dauter-
man is associated with the law firm of Roy L.
Benson in Findlay, Ohio. He is concentrating in
general litigation and real estate.

EDMUND B. Grecory III, C.P.A., is currently
audit senior and manager of Linton, Shafer & Co.,
a certified public accounting firm in Frederick,
Md. He is married to the former Helen Radcliffe
and the couple has a daughter.

RICARDO A. JOHNSON served in Cameroon as an
English teacher for three years then returned to
work at ACTION/Washington. Starting as a com-
puter key operator there, he is now assistant desk
officer for the Peace Corps in Kenya and the Sey-
chelles. Johnson resides in Washington.

RICHARD MARTIN KOCH is associated with the
Charlotte, N. C., firm of Newitt and Bruny in the
general practice of law.

MATTHEW R. KRraFFT has been elected rear com-
modore of the Potomac River Sailing Association,
an amalgamation of one-design sail boat racing
enthusiasts in the Washington metropolitan area.

 

 

D. H. Mathews, °75

Krafft works as a CPA in Bethesda, Md.

PAUL B. Kurtz III is a supervisor for Host Inter-
national at the St. Louis airport. He and his wife
reside in one of St. Louis’ historic districts.

M. STEVEN LaCroix has been promoted to vice
president in the legal department of Snelling and
Snelling, Inc., in Sarasota, Fla. He also serves as
assistant general counsel and assistant secretary
for the diversified firm whose international head-
quarters are in Sarasota. LaCroix resides there
with his wife, Diane, and their daughters, Kate
and Carrie.

Davip H. MATHEWS has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president in the corporate division of the
credit analysis department of the Bank of Virginia.
He has been with Bank of Virginia in Richmond
since his graduation.

THOMAS W. MOLLER received a B. S. degree in
accounting from the University of Kentucky. He is
a CPA and executive vice president of Hammond
Enterprises, a Lexington, Ky., firm involved in
real estate and thoroughbred horse breeding.

DAvID R. PITTMAN joined New England Life In-
surance Co. in June 1975. He has qualified for the
company's Hall of Fame and Leaders Association
as well as the Million Dollar Round Table each
year since 1976. “t

WILLIAM W. TERRY III, after graduation from
T. C. Williams School of Law in Richmond, Va., is
now an associate with the Roanoke law firm of
Wetherington, Flippin, Melchionna, Bosserman
& Burton.

WILLIAM L. WARREN JR. received his master of
divinity degree from Southern Baptist Theological
Seminary in Louisville. He is now weekend pastor
of the West Point Baptist Church in Matanzas,
Ky., and is pursuing his doctorate in the New
Testament at Southern Baptist.

JAMES WILSON is advertising director, sales de-
velopment manager and promotions manager of
the tri-weekly paper, The Gazette, in Galax, Va.
The paper is owned by Landmark Community
Newspapers, Inc., a subsidiary of Landmark Com-
munications.

DONALD T. MCMILLAN (See 1972.)

1976
MARRIAGE: JOHN F. ARNOLD JR. and Jennifer
Potts of Columbia, S. C., on Aug. 26, 1978, in
Atlanta, Ga. Both of the Arnolds are professional
dancers with the Atlanta Contemporary Dance
Co., a performing and teaching repertory group.

MARRIAGE: JAMEs F. MCMENAMIN and Kimber-
ly Anne Yohe in December 1978, in York, Pa. Dr.
Joseph P. McMenamin, ’74, and Lawrence T.
Washington III, °76, were in the wedding. Mc-

Menamin earned his M.A. in writing seminars at
Johns Hopkins University and is now a technical
writer for American Totalisator, Inc., a division of
General Instrument Corp. The couple resides in
Baltimore, Md.

JEFFREY M. BAKER will begin work in June 1979
on a masters degree in hospital and health care
administration at the Medical College of Virginia
at Virginia Commonwealth University in Rich-
mond.

BEN R. BARTON is a third year medical student at
the University of Tennessee Medical School in
Memphis. During the past summer he worked as a
research assistant to a cardiologist. Barton managed
clinical trials of a new anti-hypertensive drug about
to go on the market.

LAWRENCE R. DANIEL works in the Marine Divi-
sion of Pennzoil’s Joint Interest Administration
responsible for offshore oil and gas operations in
the Gulf of Mexico. Daniel has moved into an old
house which he restored in Houston’s inner city
Old Sixth Ward, designated a National Historic
District.

FRANK L. DUEMMLER is now associated with
Merrill Lynch in New York.

Douc.as M. Faris is a first year student at Wake
Forest University School of Law in Winston-
Salem, N. C.

DouGLas P. FOSTER is assistant controller of
AVX’s main ceramic capacitor plant in Myrtle
Beach, S. C. Foster has his CPA certification.

KENNETH G. MACDONALD JR. is a second-year
student at the West Virginia University Medical
School.

ROBERT F. SEARLES has been promoted to first
lieutenant in the U. S. Army Chemical Corps.
Stationed at the Chemical Systems Laboratory,
Edgewood, Md., Searles expects to start a three
year tour of duty in Germany in 1980.

1977
MARRIAGE: WiLLiaAM G. OGLESBY and Marcia
Meade Ferguson on June 10, 1978, in Richmond.
Bill Sands, 78, and Clay Crouch, 78, were ushers.
The couple resides in Los Angeles where Oglesby
is a first year law student at Pepperdine University
in Malibu.

H. Cops ALEXANDER JR. is a second year medical
student at Vanderbilt University.

MICHAEL D. ARMSTRONG is working as an account
executive for Austin Kelley Advertising in Atlanta.

WILLIAM R. BALDWIN III has been transferred by
the Army to Fort Polk, La., where he is serving as
a prosecutor at courts-martial in the Judge Advo-

cate General's Corps. He resides in DeRidder,
La.

BEN W. BROCKENBROUGH III is working as a cor-
porate training representative for Thalhimer
Brothers, Inc., in Richmond. His principal duties
are writing and producing videotape programs.
He worked previously as a media consultant to
TAPP Associates, an educational consulting firm,
and as a legislative assistant during the 1978 Vir-
ginia General Assembly.

JAMES R. BROOKS is working for Derek Bryant
Insurance Brokers, Ltd., in London. He places
mostly American business on the floor at Lloyds.

CLARENCE N. FRIERSON JR. received his B.S. in
Business Administration from Louisiana State
University. After working for a year in Aspen, he
returned to Shreveport and is working with his
father and two brothers on the family plantation.

STEVEN N. GABELMAN is completing his masters
degee in chemistry at Georgia Tech and will begin
work in June 1979 as a technical sales representa-
tive for Union Carbide.

SINCLAIR J. HARCUS JR. is a second year medical
student at the University of Virginia.

E. BRUCE HARVEY JR. is attending the Presby-
terian School of Christian Education and will
graduate in June 1979.

JOHN L. JACKLEY is a senior legislative assistant to
Rep. Thomas A. Luken of Ohio. Previously he
worked as a political consultant for the American
Council on Education. Jackley resides in Alex-
andria, Va.

ROBERT F’. JUNGMAN is attending law school at the
University of Houston.

RICHARD L. LOVEGROVE has moved to the Shen-
andoah Valley Bureau of the Roanoke Times and
World News in Lexington, Va. He was previously
an education writer for the Martinsville Bulletin.

STUART W. SERENBETZ will receive his MBA from
the Amos Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth
College in June. He spent the summer working as
a financial analyst for Turner Construction Co. in
New York.

JOHN A. ULIZIO is a first year student at Boston
University School of Law. He served for a year as
office manager and legislative correspondent for
Sen. Gary Hart.

TIMOTHY R. VAUGHAN is a second year law student
at the University of Texas. For the summer of
1979, he will clerk for McGuire, Woods & Battle

in Richmond.

GREGORY S. WALDEN is in the top five percent of
his second year law class at the University of San
Diego. He writes for the Law Review and tutors

31

 

first year students in contracts. Last summer Wal-
den had a small W&L reunion in southern Cali-
fornia with classmates Dave Austin and Chris
Haynes.

STEPHEN C. YEVICH is now in Chicago, IIl., and
associated with Deloitte Haskins & Sells, a public
accounting firm. Yevich works in their general
management consulting practice.

RUSSELL L. HEwirT (See 1974.)

1978

TRAVIS E. Bass is vice president in charge of
operations for Bass Transport, a trucking company.
Bass is married to Laurie Elizabeth Scott of At-
lanta. They reside in Altavista, Va.

JOHN L. BrucH III is a trainee in the corporate
division of Chemical Bank in New York City.

MICHAEL T. CLEARY is serving as a platoon leader
at Fort Carson, Colo. He and Rich Grace, ’78, are
sharing an apartment in Colorado Springs while
serving their Army tours at Fort Carson.

ERIK S. GREENBAUM has another year in pharmacy
school at the Medical College of Virginia. He plans
to attend medical school afterwards.

GEORGE F. GRIFFIN IV, after working in Blair
Lee’s campaign all summer, is now a legislative
aide for Sen. S. Frank Shore in the Maryland State
Senate. He joins three other W&L men in the
Maryland General Assembly: Laurence Levitan,
‘50, (D) is a senator from Montgomery County;
Edward P. Thomas Jr., 55, (R) is a senator from
Frederick County, and Jerry H. Hyatt, ’62, (D) is in
the House of Delegates from Montgomery
County.

RICHARD B. MCDANIEL is teaching math and
coaching football and lacrosse at Woodberry Forest
School. He will spend the summer working in a
bookshop on Nantucket.

MICHAEL J. MISSAL is working on the White House
staff in the office of presidential assistant, Anne
Wexler.

CHARLES R. PLITT is working as an accountant
with a CPA firm in Dallas.

JOHN F.. SACCo is a first year student at the Medical
College of Virginia.

GEORGE M. SMITH became a registered broker

with Rotan-Mosle, Inc., in Houston during January
1979.

JOHN F. WHEATLEY is a commercial lending
trainee at the Union Trust Co. of Maryland. He
resides in Baltimore.

DouGLAs V. MCNEEL (See 1974.)
32

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1908

CMDR. JOSEPH PUGH NORFLEET died Sept.
Thereafter he served as commander of the Naval Air
14, 1978, in Cape May Point, N. J. After attending
W&L from 1904-06 Norfleet graduated from the
U. S. Naval Academy in 1910. He served with the
fleet until 1915 and then became a member of the
First Naval Aviation Class at Pensacola, Fla. He
was a pilot for the Navy during World War I and
served in France and England. Between 1919 and
1920 he served with the U. S. Embassy in Paris.
Thereafter he served as commander of the Naval
Station at Lakehurst, N. J., and was navigator of
the airship Shenandoah. (A W&L alumnus, Thomas
S. Hook, ’49, is author of a book entitled Shenan-
doah Saga which tells of the airships flight into the
Shenandoah Valley October 27, 1923.) Norfleet
retired from the Navy in 1931 and was involved in
several businesses in New York and northern New
Jersey until he returned to the Navy in 1940 when
he served as commander of the Naval Base at Cape
May, N. J. He retired in 1947.

1918

CHARLES “DUKE” LOMBARDI, former attorney,
businessman, and public servant, died in Boston,
Mass., in July 1978. Lombardi was an outstanding
football player and athlete at Washington and Lee
and, following his discharge from the Army in 1919,
played professional football with the Cleveland
Giants. He also had a stint in professional baseball.
From 1922-1939 he practiced law in Boston with
the firm of Hunt & Lombardi and from 1939-1960
he was employed by the Crosby-Ashton Valve and
Gage Co. Since retirement Lombardi has been
involved in local politics and community service in
the Boston area. He also managed a group of apart-
ment houses. Lombardi held prominent positions
in the American Legion and was a former com-
mander of his local unit. He also took active roles
with the Veterans of Foreign Wars.

HERBIE CLITHROW WILHELM, a retired high
school principal and long time educator who taught
in both Rockbridge and Charlotte (Va.) counties,
died Jan. 16, 1979. Wilhelm was a veteran of World
War I and served with the 54th Company, 5th
Battalion Virginia State Guard during World
War II.

1927

WILMER JAMES DorsEy, a retired district sales
manager of the Laidlaw Wire Corp. of Illinois,
died Dec. 31, 1978, in Trenton, N. J. He was a
member of the Bethel Lutheran Church and the
Lacey Lodge 2518 BPOE.

1929

HORACE ERASTUS BEMIS, a writer and lumber

executive throughout the state of Arkansas, died
Jan. 9, 1979. Bemis travelled widely and was known
for his interest in Southern history. He was a long
time resident of Prescott, Ark.

WILLIAM CLARK WATSON, retired oil company
executive who spent most of his working life in the
Far East, died in Lynchburg, Va., Jan. 1, 1979.
Watson practiced law in Shanghai before joining
Standard-Vacuum Oil Co. in 1937. The company
operated in the Far East and assigned him to
China, Hong Kong, Malaya, Thailand, Indonesia
and Taiwan. He retired from the company in 1965.
Watson’s last assignment before his retirement
was the construction in Taipei of a plant for the
conversion of natural gas into fertilizer elements, a
project controlled and owned by the Chinese Na-
tional Government, Allied Chemical Co. and
Mobil. At one time Watson worked for the Tayloe
Paper Co. in Memphis. He also taught in the
undergraduate school at the University of Missis-
sippi. He was a veteran of World War II, having
served as a lieutenant commander in the U. S.
Navy and was an aide to the Naval Inspector
General.

1934

CHARLES PAYNE CRAWLEY, an attorney in Appo-
mattox, Va., died Jan. 23, 1979. After attending
W&L he received his law degree in 1936 from T.
C. Williams School of Law at the University of
Richmond. He had been judge of the General
District Court for Appomattox County since 1946.

1950
WESLEY C. MARSH Jr. died Nov. 9, 1978, in
Abingdon, Va. He was a native of Staunton and a
retired U. S. Air Force officer. He had retired in
1970 with the rank of lieutenant colonel. Between
1971 and 1974 Marsh was employed by Pittston
Co. He then entered private practice of law.

1951

ANDREW WILLIAM GOTTSCHALL JR., former pro-
fessor at Guilford College in Greensboro, N. C.,
died Jan. 25, 1979. Gottschall had formerly taught
at Rutgers, William and Mary, Old Dominion, and
until recently was a professor of psychology at
Guilford College. While at Guilford, he was dean
of students, a member of the Board of Visitors and
was first recipient of the Distinguished Community
Service Award presented by the college, He was a
member of the American Sociologists, Southern
Sociologists, the North Carolina Family Life
Council, the National Rifle Association and the
National Conference of Christians and Jews. He
was a veteran of World War II.

 

|

Shenandoah

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

Wiiters of this stature appear in SHENANDOAH:

Shenandoah ROBERT PENN WARREN _ ROBERT LOWELL
SPRING 1978 $1.50 ALLEN TATE RICHARD HOWARD
PETER [TAYLOR REYNOLDS PRICE
ELIZABETH BISHOP W. S. MERWIN
Roy FULLER Joyce CAROL OATES

‘L wo stories that appeared in SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards for distinguished
brief fiction.

Won’t you subscribe to Washington and Lee
University’s award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and criticism?

 

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for

[-] One year @ $5.00 [_] Two years @ $8.00
My check for $ enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

City State Zip

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Dr. Willian Vatt

EP. Washington Hall

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

(for members and their immediate families) presents a

Rhine River Cruise

DELUXE
August 7-17, 1979 Dulles Departure

Sil 9 9 COMPLETE Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $225.00

YOUR EXCLUSIVE DELUXE TOUR INCLUDES:

e Roundtrip direct jet transportation via chartered PAN AMERICAN WORLD AIRWAYS’ JET
CLIPPER featuring comfortable seating, meals and complimentary cocktails; stereo and in-
flight movies available at a nominal internationally-regulated charge

 

¢ Deluxe accommodations for three nights at the conveniently located, BRUSSELS
HILTON HOTEL**

e Full American breakfast daily (tax and service included)

e Specially arranged Gala Welcome or Farewell Banquet

e Gourmet dinners two evenings at a SELECTION OF THE FINEST RESTAURANTSt

RHINE RIVER !

¢ Deluxe motorcoach tour through Holland to the port of Nijmegen; board the si German
Rhine Line's MS FRANCE, t+ exclusively chartered for your three day/three night Rhine
River cruise to the Bavarian port of Karlsruhe

e All meals aboard ship — three meals a day

e Deluxe accommodations for three nights at the SHERATON MUNICH HOTEL** a
e Full American breakfast daily (tax and service included)

e Specially arranged Gala Welcome or Farewell Banquet

e Gourmet dinners two evenings at a SELECTION OF THE FINEST RESTAURANTSt
Extras:

Exciting optional tours available throughout your trip

All gratuities for bellboys and doormen

United States departure tax ($3.00) included «

VIP pre-registration in each hotel

All round trip transfers and baggage handling — airport/hotels/ship

Generous 66 pound luggage allowance

Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation

Experienced tour director and hotel hospitality desk, staffed by an on-site team of professionals

“Some tours will originate in Munich and end in Brussels. tt Shipboard gratuity not included.
imi @ Foreign arrival/departure tax(es) not included.

“or similar
tApproximately $15.00 dinner credit per meal.

 

For further information, contact: W. C. Washburn, Washington and Lee
University Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450 PHONE: (703) 463-9111
Ext. 214 or 318

 

 

 

 

 

