APRIL 1978

iversity

ington and lee uni

ine of wash

1 magaz

the alumn

 

 

 

‘¥ oa 8 ®.

wosetes e
SK x hg NN y
° oe a tf"

e as ba Acs py s
wy a woe tn

mC.

RENE Pg
LR ies

ae a Rac

on a

ot sai Ke
on Waren?

o

x eee . P »: rts
8 a cay wy

Sherry eae

= Pane

Sad rte A

~.-,
wy

a
eae 4

ee

y

v

hale,

>

~)

a
od
Lees

42h -=2

o.4%
pase tes pda
on flare fe

p>
Oe ae +
Pa te Lae

aa

‘eee
ott

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

oh

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 53, Number 3, April 1978

William C. Washburn, 40 ..................00. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 ................... Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing,’77 .............. Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ........ 0.0... cee eee Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann 2... 2. ee cece eee Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

W&cL News Notes ...........ccccccccceccceeeeeessessessssssseeees l
Gridiron OVETture .........eecececeseeeeecscsseesesssssssceeees 2
Maestro McDowell ..............ccccccccceeceececeeeesesseseeees 3
Superswimmer John Hudson ...........eecceeeseeees 6
Chapter NeWS ou... eeeeeescccesneceseeceseeeeseeesseesseeesaes 7
Class Notes .......ccccccccccccessssssssececeesessssessessssssseseeens 9
Tell US co eeccccccsssccccccccccccccessssssssssssecessssaseeeees 14
In Memoriam ...........cccceeeeeeeeeseseeeeeeeeeseseeseseeeesesees 15

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumnm, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EDWIN J. FoLtz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

ROBERT M. WuitE II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President

JERRY G. SoutuH,’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, ’57, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DENNY, 52, Atlanta, Ga.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, ’58, Richmond, Va.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HO L.LIs, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTneEyY R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
-PaAut E. SAnpeErs, ’43, White Plains, N.Y.

ON THE COVER: An enlarged drawing of the ruins of
Liberty Hall, the small eighteenth-century classical
academy from which Washington and Lee University
evolved. Fire destroyed the building in 1803; the ruins
are preserved on the campus grounds as a symbol of the
University’s honored past. This drawing, reduced in size,
was used on the cover of the University report for the
years 1960 through 1962. It currently appears on the
inside front cover of the 1978-79 catalogue.

 

 

 

W,
@L° NEWS NOTES

FULBRIGHT GRANT WINNER

A W&L senior, John S. Strong of
North Wales, Pa., has been awarded a
Fulbright Grant for graduate study in
Europe. Strong, who is taking an
independent major in urban planning
and administration, plans to pursue his
studies in urban planning in Stockholm,
Sweden.

He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, the Student
Recruitment Committee; an assistant
head dormitory counselor; and a
student representative on the faculty
Courses and Degrees Committee.

STUDENT BODY PRESIDENT
Waller T. (Beau) Dudley,:a rising
third-year law student from Alexandria,

has been elected president of the
student body for the 1978-79 academic
year. yas

He received 58 percent of the votes
cast in a three-way contest. The election
marks the second time since 1965-that a
law student has been elected president
of the student body.

Dudley was a 1974 graduate of
WSL, receiving a B.A. in history.

TWO ADMISSIONS AIDES

Two graduating seniors, James M.
Underhill and Mark A. Putney, have
been named assistant directors of
admissions at the University on one-year
appointments for 1978-79.

Underhill, president of the student
body this year, is an Honor Roll student
majoring in business administration and
accounting. He is from Babylon, N.Y.

Putney is co-chairman of the Student
Recruitment Committee and is taking a
major in business administration. He is
from Richmond, Va.

Since 1969, W&L has reserved one
place on the admissions staff for a new
graduate. Currently, the position is held
by Kenneth P. Ruscio. The appointment
of two graduates represents an
intensification of the University’s
admissions efforts.

The two will travel extensively to
secondary schools as part of W&L’s
student recruitment program and will be

involved in the full scope of on-campus
admissions activity, including interviews
of prospective students, evaluations of
applications and committee work.

ADMISSIONS DIRECTOR SEARCH
Washington and Lee is currently
engaged in an extensive search for a
Director of Admissions (to succeed
James D. Farrar, newly named
coordinator of alumni for student
recruitment) and for an Associate
Director of Admissions. The University
advertised the positions widely in
professional publications in early spring
and is now considering a large number
of highly qualified applicants. Dr. Lewis
G. John, dean of students (whose official
responsibilities include the admissions
office), says he is encouraged by the
response, through formal and informal
channels. Dean John said the University
hopes to make a decision from among
those who already have applied for the
two positions or who express their
interest in the immediate future. The
University expects to have both
vacancies filled by mid-summer, he said.

NEW DEPARTMENT HEADS

Drs. Sidney M. B. Coulling and
Thomas G. Nye have been appointed
heads of W&L’s English and biology
departments, respectively, effective July
1. They succeed Drs. Severn Duvall and
James H. Starling, who will return to
full-time classroom teaching.

Coulling, a 1948 B.A. graduate of
W&L, received his M.A. and Ph. D.

 

C

Dr. Coullin

Dr. Nye

degrees from the University of North
Carolina. He joined the W&L faculty in
1956. He is an authority in Victorian
literature.

Nye has taught at W&L since 1966.
He earned his undergraduate degree in
biology and social science at Fairmont
(W.Va.) State College and his advanced
degrees at the University of Kentucky.
His fields of teaching and research
specialty are ecology and general
botany.

Duvall is Henry S. Fox Jr. Professor
of English, holding one of the six
endowed professorships at W&L. He
expressed a strong desire to relinquish
his departmental administrative duties
after 16 years, according to President
Robert E. R. Huntley. Duvall joined the
faculty as a full professor in 1962 after
teaching at Dartmouth for nine years.

Starling, 65, is at the mandatory
retirement age for department heads.
He has been a member of the biology
faculty at W&L since 1942. He was
acting department head for a time
following the death in 1974 of Dr.
Henry S. Roberts, and became
permanent department head in 1976.

RELIGION LECTURES PUBLISHED

Thirteen lectures delivered at a
major conference held at W&L in 1976
examining the world’s religious diversity
have been compiled in a book just
published.

The volume, Christian Faith in a
Religiously Plural World, takes its title from
that of the three-day conference,
sponsored jointly by W&L and the
Harvard University Center for the Study
of World Religions.

Orbis Books, a division of the Roman
Catholic Foreign Mission Society
(Maryknoll), published the volume. It
was edited by Donald G. Dawe of Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond and
John B. Carman, director of the
Harvard University Center.

Dr. David W. Sprunt, Fletcher Otey
Thomas Professor of Bible and chaplain at
W&L, wrote the preface to the book. He
was co-chairman of the symposium. Dr.

Continued on Inside Back Cover

GRIDIRON OVERTURE

Of Mollenhoff, McDowell, and the Show That ‘Singes, But Never Burns’

Clark R. Mollenhoff, the Pulitzer
Prize-winning newsman-lawyer, joined
Washington and Lee’s journalism faculty
in 1976. In short order he developed a
boundless enthusiasm for everything
about W&L (he even has a drawing of
the Colonnade on his personal
stationery), and his students and his
faculty colleagues reciprocated just as
quickly. As a long-time member of the
Gridiron Club, he viewed this year’s
production with particular interest and a
special background; late at night Clark
will admit that he himself was a song-
and-dance man in Gridiron shows of
yore. |

Charles R. McDowell Jr. grew up in
Lexington; his father taught in the law
school from 1926 until his death in
1968, and his mother, Catherine
McDowell (“Mrs. Mac”), the irrepressible
and indispensable secretary to five law
deans, continues to live in Lexington
and still provides Charley with some of
his best material. Charley went to W&L,
commuting from the Lee-Jackson
House. After graduation in 1948 and a
year in graduate school at Columbia, he
was hired by the Richmond Times-
Dispatch, and has worked there ever
since. In 1955 he began writing his now-
famous column (from which have been
derived two books) on topics ranging in
diversity from state and national politics
to the Suburban Crabgrass Conspiracy
and his close and always awkward
encounters with technology of any kind,
but especially vending machines. (His
annual “Thirty days hath
September . . . except February, which
goes on forever” column is responsible’
for a significant increase in the use of
Xerox machines all over the Times-
Dispatch’s circulation area as readers

make copies for friends everywhere
else.) In 1965 he became Capitol
correspondent for the paper. He is a
member of Phi Beta Kappa and of
Omicron Delta Kappa; he has received
the National Headliner’s Club award; in
1975 he received an honorary Doctor of
Laws degree from W&L.

This year, either as a consequence of
those achievements or despite them, he
was chosen to be music chairman of the
Gridiron’s annual white-tie
extravaganza. He reports that it was the
most demanding work he’s ever done,
but also the most fun.

The Gridiron Club, probably the
most prestigious and surely the most
entertaining and likeable group of
journalists in Washington, if not the
whole world, if there is any difference,
bills its annual dinner “the White House
Follies,” and Presidents and anyone else
who can get an invitation wouldn’t miss
it for anything. They wouldn’t dare.
(Who would want to miss the kind of
event, after all, where Richard Nixon
and Spiro Agnew capped the evening
some years ago by playing a piano
duet?) The Gridiron’s name reflects its
good-natured philosophy: it “singes, but
never burns.” This year, in addition
to President and Mrs. Carter, guests

 

 

 

Clark R. Mollenhoff
Critic

included the Chief Justice and members
of the Supreme Court (Lewis F. Powell
Jr., 28, ’31L among them),
congressional leaders, cabinet officers,
and the ambassadors of Egypt and Israel
and seven other nations. Clark
Mollenhoff was there too, and brought
as his guests President Huntley and
Sydney Lewis, ’40. Afterwards, on
assignment from the editors of your
alumni magazine, Mollenhoff directed
his formidable talents as the nation’s
premier investigative journalist to the
question: “Why Charley McDowell?”
This is his report.

Sing Along
DIDS RISD SS

The Gridiron Chorus (to the tune of
Another Op’nin’, Another Show):

. .. Just once a year when we stretch the
truth,
Just once a year when we lose our couth,
Just once a year we’re fortissimo—
Another op’nin’ of another show!
Three weeks, we rehearse to be brash,
‘Two weeks, still averse to be brash,
One week, will it ever suffice?
The truth of it is, we’re too damned
nice!
We'll take our cue from you Democrats,
The G.O.P. and the bureaucrats. . .

DIIDIS SAND

Gridiron reincarnates Teddy Roose-
velt for a parody to the tune of Camelot:

Ask ev’ry person if he’s heard the story,
And tell it strong and clear with orchestra
That still there is a fleeting wisp of glory
Called Panama!

Panama, Panama!

I know it gives some people pause,

But in Panama, Panama,

We are the legal laws!

By Clark R. Mollenhoff

Professor of Journalism

MAESTRO McDOWELL

‘Being Tone Deaf Is Not Essential, But It Helps’

When Charley McDowell was ten
years old he manufactured what he
purported was “a musical instrument.”
It consisted of a variety of cans, a few
bottles, an assortment of other junk and
a foot pedal.

His mother reports proudly that “it
worked”—meaning that the Washington
and Lee Swinger and a boyhood chum
were able to make a reasonably rhythmic
noise flow from this pile.

Mrs. McDowell, who played the
piano, observed closely for any interest
Charley or his brother, John, might have
in music. She found none.

As far as she knows, in fact, the junk
rhythm instrument was Charley
McDowell’s one and only venture into
the world of music—before January,
1978, when he emerged as music
chairman of the Gridiron Club’s famous
Washington musical extravaganza. , «:

“I was completely surprised and
more than a little puzzled,” Catherine
McDowell commented after Charley's
triumph in staging one of the best
Gridiron shows in the 93-year history of
the Washington newsman’s club.

“I wanted to give the boys piano
lessons when they were young, but Big
Charley put his foot down. He believed
it might make them sissies.”

In the hope of finding a reason to

bfeteyt

plead with her husband for
reconsideration of his “no piano” edict,
Mrs. McDowell says she paid close
attention to any flickering interest in
music in either of her boys.

“I can’t remember Charley ever
singing around the house or at parties
or anything like that,” Mrs. McDowell
says. “I don’t know what he did at the
fraternity houses or other parties like
that, because, you know, it is always the
mother who is last to hear.

“Big Charley used to lead the singing
when the crowd would gather around
the piano, but I don’t believe I ever
heard Little Charley sing. He might
have been tone deaf as far as I knew.”

There is ample evidence from
confidential sources in the Washington
bureau of the Richmond Times-Dispatch
that Charley McDowell has considerable
difficulty carrying a tune. Reporters in
the Times-Dispatch bureau give consistent
accounts of the cacophony of discordant
sounds that emerge from McDowell’s
office in the National Press Building as
he and Ben Cole, Bob Boyd and Al
Cromley try to sing the words they have
written to a wide range of popular
tunes, old standards and country music.

These confidential sources report
that, from time to time, it is possible to
distinguish what tunes Charley and his

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Charley McDowell
Librettist

DIIDII SIA HN

An Earl! Butz parody (to the tune of A
Pretty Girl is Like a Melody):

When you had Earl,

You had pros-per-i-tee,

The price of corn was high!
Sunshine and rain |
Brought big crops of grain!
When you had me

High par-i-tee

Was easy to obtain:

Those good old days

Are just a memory,

Dreams vanished with the dawn!
Although born-again folks

May not tell dirty jokes,

When you had Earl,

Good times just rolled on and on!

DIIDIIIKSD

Four business tycoons are parodied
singing the Whiffenpoof lament for the
three-martini lunch:

Oh, those three-martini luncheons

That we always loved so well,

With an olive or perhaps a lemon twist!

They are symbols of our power

With our glasses raised high,

And without them we can’t possibly exist!
. . . We’re entrepreneurs who don’t

want to pay—

Drink, drink, drink! ...

DIIDIDI SDN

Republican National Chairman Bill
Brock (W&L, ’53) is parodied to the tune
of Whatever Happened to Randolph Scott?:

. Whatever happened to Margaret
Chase Smith and Hiram Leong Fong?

Whatever happened to Melvin Laird?
Will the likes of them ever come
along?

Whatever happened to William Scranton,
to Rocky and John Lind-zee?

Whatever happened to all these is as plain
as A, B, C—

Whatever happened to Harold Stassen
has happened to the G.O.P.!

MAESTRO McDOWELL

Gridiron associates are trying to imitate.

On that sour note ended my efforts
to trace the musical roots of Charley
McDowell, ’48, for the W&L alumni
magazine. It was the most exhausting,
time-consuming and futile assignment in
my entire career as an investigative
reporter.

The record was as devoid of clues as
the mystery death of Jimmy Hoffa, or
the real secret of why Jimmy Carter let
Bert Lance keep his diplomatic passport
and his White House pass.

There was not one witness who
would say Charley McDowell was a
secret bathtub baritone. Nor was there
one document or even a rumor that he
came from a clan of Scottish bagpipe
players.

But after interviewing Mrs.
McDowell at the end of my search, I
noted I had overlooked the obvious.
Does a successful Gridiron music
chairman have to know anything about
music?

The answer was found by reviewing
the most recent successful chairmen:
novelist Fletcher Knebel, Ridder
Publications executive Walter Ridder,
Knight-Ridder bureau chief Robert
Boyd, Indianapolis Star bureau chief
Ben Cole, and Daily Oklahoman bureau

chief Allan W. Cromley.

The answer was clear. A high degree
of musical talent is not necessary, and in
fact may even be an impediment to the
enthusiastic coordinating effort in the
first days of rehearsing the motley
Gridiron chorus.

Being tone deaf is not essential, but
it helps.

The most important ingredients are
a sense of humor, a confident feel for
words, and, one hopes, a sense of the
rhythm of words. Charley McDowell is
blessed with all of those qualities.

In addition, Charley McDowell is one
of a handful of Washington newsmen
whose style—as a humor columnist for
the Richmond Times-Dispatch—is on the
same beat as the political satire that is
the trademark of the successful Gridiron
lyricist.

It takes only a slight shifting of
mental gears for Charley McDowell to
move from his work for the Times-
Dispatch to his music chairman duties of
writing the parodies for the Gridiron
production, or editing and refining the
parodies written by others.

And from time to time Charley
McDowell the Times-Dispatch columnist
has stolen from Charley McDowell the
Gridiron music chairman to fashion

 

 

 

 

President Huntley
Guest

DIIADID RIND

Democratic Sen. Russell Long is paro-
died, singing, to the tune of Short People:

... They got a Ham Jordan

W’ shiny li'l teeth.

They wear platform shoes

On their nasty li'l feet.

Well, Ah can’t help them short people,

Don’t need them short people,

Don’t want no short people ’round here!

... Lil blue noses

Halos by the bunch,

Gonna knock off your three-martini
lunch.

They drive li'l cars

That go beep, beep, beep,

They got li’l voices

Going cheap cheap cheap,

They got liberal li'l faces

"N conservative minds,

They gonna fool ya—every time!

DIDI SSD DS

Defense Secretary Harold Brown is
lampooned to the tune of Thank Heaven
For Little Girls:

Thank heaven for neutron bombs!

They blow up in the most constructive
way.

Thank heaven for neutron bombs!

They'll save the cities for another day.

DDIDISID DS

National security advisor Zbigniew
Brzezinski is parodied to the tune of
Supercalifragilisticexpialidocious (from the
movie Mary Poppins):

The headline writers pass me by ’though
I deserve acclaim;

For even if they had the room they couldn’t
spell my name.

I’m either long on consonants or else I’m
short a vowel—

But better all my problems than to switch
with Jody Powell!

some of his most readable columns. But
when McDowell of the Times-Dispatch
wrote about the 1978 Gridiron show and
excerpted some of the lyrics chiding
Republicans and Democrats, he did not
reveal that he was the author of two of
the Gridiron parodies he quoted.

Charley McDowell’s career as a
writer of verse started—and almost
ended—at Washington and Lee in 1946.
McDowell, who was writing a regular
“Reporter at Large” feature for the
student newspaper, decided to compose
an entire column in verse. He received
such a chiding from other W&L
students for that effort that he started
his next column with a versified pledge
to end his humor-in-rhyme. In January,
1946, he wrote:

The most popular lines ever written
By a poet like me who is smitten
By desire to write verse fy
(which couldn’t be worse)
Is simply: “Dear Reader, I’m quitfin’.”
McDowell gives this account of why
he broke that W&L pledge and went on
to become the Gridiron’s music
chairman:
“After two years in the Gridiron
chorus, I became convinced I was never

As

going to be able to carry a tune. Since
then I’ve concentrated on writing the
words, and have accepted the fact that I
have no musical talent.

“Even when I get the right words,
occasionally they just won't sing, and
Ann [Charley’s wife] comes in, shifts a
few things around and saves me. It is a
great asset for a tone-deaf music
chairman to have a wife who knows
something about music.”

To take nothing from Charley’s role
in the writing and production of the
1978 Gridiron show, it might be said
that President and Mrs. Carter gave the
show an added touch of class when they
were persuaded to join the performers
on the stage for a vigorous but graceful
jitterbug in white tie, tails and sequins.

It was the first time a presidential
couple had performed as a team before
the Gridiron Club since its first
production in 1885, although all
presidents since then have attended the
white-tie dinner and stage show.

If readers of the Times-Dispatch find
that some McDowell columns appear a
little soft on Carter, they probably won’t
be wrong in assuming that Charley feels
a bit of gratitude to the Carters for
helping make the McDowell Gridiron
show a smash success.

 

 

 

 

President Carter
Victim

DIIDDIDIAS SD

Former Democratic Party Chairman
Robert Strauss, now the  President’s
Special Trade Representative, is
lampooned, singing, to the tune of Sweet
Georgia Brown:

We've got hicks—now politics
nowhere around;

Plain to me, they’ve claimed D.C. as their
Georgia town!

Two left feet they think are neat in their
Georgia town!

They stumble and then

They do it again—oh, my!

Peanut farmers, snake-oil charmers keep
fallin’ down,

And Ham Jerden’s now our burden all
over town.

They don’t fraternize

With our kind of guys.

Carter trusts ’em, Carter bussed ’em, to
this Georgia town!

are

There’s no fun in what they’ve done to this
Georgia town;

Old-time sin’s no longer in—you smoke and
they frown.

It’s been hell for Griffin Bell—his halo fell
down.

Their energy plan

Was tossed in the can—some plan!

There’s no feel for Tip O’Neill in this
Georgia town.

Some sodbuster from Augusta’s messin’
around.

Fellers, you can see

How much they need me

To save the day—that’s why I'll stay in
their Georgia town!

By Bill Schnier

Sports Information Director

SUPERSWIMMER

John Hudson, 17 times an All American, Has Attached His Name to an Era

The “John Hudson Era” of swimming
at Washington and Lee will become
history when John Hudson, the
superswimmer from Millersville, Pa.,
graduates in June with a bachelor’s
degree in business administration. He
will leave behind him a four-year record
of aquatic wonders that have made him
and W&L swimming virtually
synonymous. (Hudson is the son of R.
Suter Hudson, W&L, Class of ’53.)

Bill Stearns, who is completing his
12th year as head swimming coach at
W&L, says without reservation that
Hudson is “the best swimmer by far this
school has ever seen.”

This year, Hudson led the W&L
swimmers to a 10-1 dual meet record,
the best performance in the University’s
history. During Hudson’s four years, the
Generals have won 33 dual meets and
lost only 9—a record made more
formidable by the fact that W&L
annually swims against the best NCAA
Division I competition available in the
area. This season, on its way to its 10-1
dual meet record, W&L defeated teams
like Virginia Tech, James Madison,
George Washington, William and Mary,
and Old Dominion. The Generals’ only
loss was to state champion Richmond, in
the second meet of the season. W&L
finished third in the 1978 Virginia
championships.

Hudson, during his four years on the
team, has helped W&L win national
recognition unparalleled in the
University’s long and notable swimming
history. W&L finished 10th nationally in
the 1978 Division III championships
held at Grinell, lowa. The team was
ninth in 1977, eighth in 1976, and tenth
in 1975. In fact, from the standpoint of
the win-loss column, swimming is
Washington and Lee’s most successful
sport. W&L’s record of 33-9 during the
four-year Hudson era raised its overall
swimming record to 237-103-1 in 51
seasons of competition.

John Hudson is a dedicated swimmer
who says that nearly everything he has
done for the past four years was aimed
at achieving victory in the pool. His
conditioning routine is to swim 4,000

6

 

rs
W -

SWIMMING

 

John Hudson

yards every morning and 7,000 yards
every afternoon (7,000 yards is 280
lengths in a standard 25-yard pool). The
payoff has been victory indeed. Hudson
has won more than 140 times during his
W&L career; in dual meets he has lost
only three times.

He has also accomplished a feat no
other W&L athlete has come close to
during a four-year span—being named a
first-team All-American 17 times.
Seventeen seems an almost incredible
figure. How did he do it?

In the national swimming
championships, the top 12 swimmers in
each event are named All-Americans.
That may sound easy to do, but not so.
The qualifying standards in each event
are so difficult and demanding that only
the superior swimmers succeed in
making it to the national championship
meet.

Hudson, in four years, has achieved
All-American status each season in the
200 freestyle, the 500 freestyle, and the
1,650 freestyle. That’s 12 times. To these
add three All-Americans in the 800 free
relays and two more in the 400 free relay—
making 17 All-American recognitions for
the 22-year-old Hudson.

He was also the winner in 1976 of
the Division III championship in the 500
and the 1,650 freestyle—the University’s
first ever national swimming
championship.

He seemed to major in school
records. He set individual marks at
W&L in the 200, 500, 1,000 and 1,650
freestyle, and relay teams on which he
swam hold school records in the 400 and
800.

Only yesterday, it seems, W&L
swimming fans were talking about a
sensational freshman named “Hinson”
or “Hulson” or something like that, who
had the potential to be W&L’s best
swimmer.

There is no mistaking the name now.
The name Hudson is firmly attached to
an era of swimming that is a source of
great satisfaction and pride for
Washington and Lee.

 

Canfield is Coach of Year;
Dennis is All-American

Verne Canfield, W&L head basket-
ball coach, was named Coach of the
Year in District III of the NCAA
Division III for the second year in a
row, and basketball star Pat Dennis was
named first-team All-American by
Basketball Weekly.

Dennis has received a long list of
post-season honors, including Player of
the Year in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and Most Valuable Player in
the South Atlantic Division III playoffs.
Dennis, a senior, closed his career at
W&L with 1,428 points; he scored 700
points during the 1977-78 season,
establishing a W&L record.

Canfield is now in his 14th year at
W&L,; his teams have compiled a 225-
126 record. His 1977-78 team, with a 22-
6 record, captured the regular season
and tournament championships of the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference for
the second consecutive year. For the
third time in four years, W&L competed
in the NCAA Division III South Atlantic
Regional tournament, finishing as the
runnerup.

CHAPTER NEWS

 

WASHINGTON—Maadison Co

se

APPALACHIAN—Stephen Kalista, ’70, and his wife talk with University
Trustee John W. Warner, ’49, who is also running for the U. S. Senate.

WASHINGTON, D.C. Michael
Cappeto, director of the University’s
office of career development and
placement, spoke to a luncheon meeting
of the Washington chapter on March 2.
Cappeto explained the work he does in
career counseling and placement,
presented a report showing the career
and graduate school choices of the Class
of ’77, and asked for alumni help in
placing graduates in jobs. Following his
presentation was a question and answer
session. Arrangements for the luncheon
meeting at the Key Bridge Marriott
Motel in Arlington, Va., were made by
Grady C. Frank Jr., °75L, the chapter’s
vice president. Special guests of honor
were Madison Coe, 15, and E. Waller
Dudley, ’43, ’47L, a University Trustee.
William C. Washburn, alumni secretary,
was also present.

  

€, 15, a special guest, at luncheon meeting with
Dr. Sidney Lyons, ’35, and John M. Duckworth, ’71, a development associate.

  
  

APPALACHIAN. Two of the
candidates in the battle for the
Republican nomination in the U.S.
Senate race in Virginia—A. Linwood
Holton, 44, and John W. Warner, 49,
who is also a University Trustee—were
special guests at the cocktail party which
preceded a dinner meeting of the
Appalachian chapter at the Greenway
Haven House in Abingdon, Va., on
March 17. W&L alumni from three
states attended the meeting, which
featured short talks by John M.
Duckworth, ’71, a development
associate; Buddy Atkins, ’68, assistant
alumni secretary; and William McC.
Schildt, 68, assistant dean of the law
school. Atkins spoke on the progress of
the University’s admissions and alumni
recruitment programs. Schildt briefly
talked about some of the current

 

ROANOKE—President Huntley, special gues
Fitzpatrick, ’29, ’31L, and Martin P. Burks, ’32L.

: os
“7 Q

APPALACHIAN—Robert A. Vinyard, ’70L, George W. Summerson, ’27, and
James W. Elliott Jr., 67L, with Senatorial candidate A. Linwood Holton, ’44.

   

   

t and speaker, talks with Earl

strengths of the University and the
changes he sees after five years away
from Lexington and W&L. The
speakers were followed by a lively and
thought-provoking question and answer

period.

ROANOKE. The formation of a
chapter board of directors was the
primary business at the Roanoke
chapter’s meeting on March 22. Held at
the Shenandoah Club on one of the first
beautiful days of Spring, the luncheon
meeting, set up by Jay Turner, ’67, ’71L,
turned out a good crowd. Guest of
honor and speaker at the meeting was
President Robert E. R. Huntley, who
spoke on the state of the University.
Enthusiastically received, the talk
generated a number of questions during
the discussion period which followed.

7

CHAPTER NEWS

 

John W. Poynor, ’62, chapter president.

Another special guest at the meeting was
H. Gordon Leggett, 54, a Trustee. Also
present were John M. Duckworth, ’71;
Lewis G. John, ’58, dean of students at
W&L; and William C. Washburn, ’40,
and Buddy Atkins, ’68.

TIDEWATER. The Annual Oyster
Roast, a traditional chapter special
event, was held at Bayville Farms near
Virginia Beach on Saturday, April 1. A
warm, sunny day with a touch of a sea
breeze made the welcome by chapter
President Richard C. Burroughs, 68,
even more pleasant to the many alumni,
wives and guests who enjoyed their fill
of oysters, beer, hot dogs and lively
music furnished with gusto by a small
Jazz band. Special guests for the occasion
were Justice A. Christian Compton, ’50,

8

ROANOKE—Development Staff Associate John Duckworth, ’71, and Trustee
H. Gordon Leggett, ’54, of Lynchburg talk with Jeff Peck, ’77, after the well-

attended luncheon meeting at which a board of directors was formed.

BIRMINGHAM—Richard T. Scruggs, winner of the first John F. Hendon
Award, with Mrs. Scruggs, Mrs. John F. Hendon, wife of the late Trustee, and

 
   

TIDEWATER

SOUTHERN OHIO—Treasurer James W. Whitehead at opening of Reeves
Collection porcelain exhibit in Dayton on Dec. 2 with Thomas P. Winborne, ’51,

 

Christian Compton, ’50, ’53L, is in background; others are Stockton H. Tyler Jr.
Z9L, James H. Tyler IIT, ’31, ’33L, and Sam Jones, ’39.

chapter president, Mrs. Winborne, and Dr. James Priest, 43, meeting host.

’"53L, a member of the Virginia Supreme
Court and the University’s Board of
Trustees, and his wife. Representing the
University were Dean of the College and
Mrs. William J. Watt; William C.
Washburn, ’40, and Buddy Atkins, ’68,
from the Alumni office and their wives;
John Duckworth, ’71; and Doug
Dewing, ’77.

BIRMINGHAM. Richard T. Scruggs,
father of a 1970 graduate of
Washington and Lee, received the first
John F. Hendon Award from the
Birmingham chapter at its annual
reception and dinner on April 6.
Scruggs, a past chairman of the Parents
Fund and chairman for two years of the
Robert E. Lee Associates, received the
award from John Poyner, ’62, president

of the chapter. The principal speaker
for the meeting, held at the Mountain
Brook Club, was University Trustee
Sydney Lewis, who spoke on “How it is
at Washington and Lee” before a large
and interested audience. At the head
table for the dinner meeting were Mr.
and Mrs. Lewis; Mr. and Mrs. Poyner;
‘Trustee Jack Warner, ’41, of Tuscaloosa,
Ala.; Col. William Rushton, ’21, of
Birmingham; John Hollister, ’58, a
development associate from Atlanta;
and William C. Washburn, ’40, alumni
secretary. Before dinner, a cocktail hour
provided an excellent opportunity for
greetings and lively conversation.
Poyner announced during the meeting
that the Reeves Collection of Chinese
Export Porcelain would be exhibited in
Birmingham in June, 1978.

CLASS NOTES

 

NA | Paina tghaadii ri
SA eb ee ee
————ee

io

 

 

 

 

 

 

Why not a WSL rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$75.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$60.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:
Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to 4n office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and_ telephone
number.

 

 

Dr. WILLIAM MCELWEE MILLER is author of the
book What is the Bahai Faith published by Eerd-
mans Publishing Co.

1924

Howarop D. LEAKE (See 1926.)

"TURNER RICE (See 1926.)

1926

CHARLES HENRY HAMILTON recently published
a biography of Peter Franciscos-Soldier Extraordi-
nary. A newspaper executive, Hamilton joined
the Richmond News Leader in 1926, was a sports
writer for six years, sports editor for four years,
city editor for 15 years and managing editor for
19 years. He was also an assistant to the presi-
dent of Media General, the parent holding
company.

GEORGE L. HILL, who lives in Dunedin, Fla.,
recently joined a mini-reunion at Navarro Beach
with HOWARD LEAKE, 24; TURNER RICE, 24; and
classmate DicBy West. The group found the
fishing quite good.

1927

GEORGE W. SUMMERSON, manager of the Martha
Washington Inn in Abingdon, Va., was honored
as a certified hotel administrator during the
66th annual American Hotel and Motel As-
sociation convention, held at the Olympic Hotel
in Seattle, Wash., last October. Summerson was
cited for his work as president and general
manager of the Martha Washington Inn. He
has also been mayor of Abingdon, a trustee and
president of the Educational Institute of the
American Hotel and Motel Association, presi-
dent of both the Southern Hotel Association
and the Virginia Hotel Association and is on the
advisory committees of three senior and junior
colleges in Virginia.

1930

FREDERIC G. SwINk, an attorney, enjoys cruising
on Chesapeake Bay on his 33-foot sloop.

1931

Dr. EDWARD M. RILEy, former director of re-
search for Colonial Williamsburg and lecturer
in the history department at William and Mary,
is working on a book about the life of Sir William
Gooch, the royal governor of Virginia from
1727 to 1729.

1932

PAauL A. HOLSTEIN (See 1966.)

1933

Dr. RALPH S. EMERSON was president of the

9

CLASS NOTES

New York State Medical Society from 1975 to
1977. He was also president of the New York
State Society of Surgeons.

THE REv. JOHN A. WOMELDORTF, retired after 40
years in the Presbyterian ministry, continues in
church work. He and his wife will host the fourth
annual Presbyterian (Reformation) tour to five
European countries in September.

1934

W. O. LEFFELL retired as professor of electrical
engineering at the University of Tennessee last
December after teaching for 42 years. He plans
to farm and perhaps raise cattle.

ROBERT B. SAFForD retired two years ago and
lives in West Hartford, Conn. He is vice chair-
man of a 375-member mens retirement club
and membership chairman of a lawn bowling

club.

DANIEL B. STARTSMAN is an accountant at Nurre
Building Material Co. in Cincinnati, Ohio.

1935

GEORGE E. SHort, who retired six years ago
from E. I. duPont, lives in Pompton Lakes,
N. J., where he enjoys gardening and golfing.

1936

MARRIAGE: Dr. THomas H. ALpuIn and Betty
W. Wilhoit, on Feb. 23, 1978, in Birmingham,
Ala.

SAMUEL L. ALEXANDER continues as clerk of the
circuit court in Stafford County, Va. He and his
wife have four grandchildren and live in Fal-
mouth.

Cyrus V. ANDERSON has retired as vice presi-
dent, law, for PPG Industries, Inc., of Pitts-
burgh, Pa., after 33 years. Anderson joined PPG
in 1945 as an attorney, and was named assistant
counsel in 1952. Three years later, he became
assistant general counsel and in 1960 was named
associate general counsel. He became vice
president, law, in 1972. An antitrust specialist,
Anderson was a member of the Attorney Gen-
eral’s National Committee which studied anti-
trust laws (1963-65), was national chairman of
the American Bar Association’s section on anti-
trust laws (1964-65), and was co-chairman of
the ABA’s special committee on complex and
multi-district litigation (1968-73). Anderson and
his wife, Kay, live in Upper St. Clair, Pa.

JAMEs O. Warrs Jr. (See 1968.)

1937

STANLEY BARROWS was awarded the DeWolfe
Award by the Metropolitan Chapter of the
American Society of Interior Designers last

10

   

C. V. Anderson, ’

June. Paul Randolph, former dean of the archi-
tecture school at Yale University, was the co-
recipient with Barrows.

DONALD C. REDFIELD JR. has retired from the
First New Haven National Bank of New Haven,
Conn., after 31 years. Since 1973, he had been
senior vice-president and chief financial officer.
He is president of the City Mission Association
of New Haven, treasurer of the General David
Humphreys Branch #1 of the Sons of the
American Revolution and chairman of the board
of North Haven Congregational Church.

I. M. Scott, board chairman of TOSCO (Oil)
Corp. and a member of the University’s Board
of Trustees, was among a group of 20 promi-
nent Philadelphia citizens who visited the
Peoples’ Republic of China recently. The 17-
day tour was organized by Philadelphia’s World
Affairs Council. The travelers, upon their re-
turn, “disclaimed having become instant China
experts. They did agree that their visit had given
them a taste of the warmth of the Chinese people
and a glimpse of a genuine desire to be friends.”

1938

Retired Army Col. BEN L. ANDERSON was
a guest of the Philippine Government in October
at the dedication of the MacArthur Memorial
on Leyte Beach. Anderson was on MacArthur’s
staff for five years, from the New Guinea cam-
paign through the occupation of Japan.

Cyrus V. ANDERSON (See 1936.)

JAMEs O. Warrs Jr. (See 1968.)

1939

Dr. Davip H. BOALs is practicing radiology at
Park Place Hospital in Port Arthur, Texas.

JOHN R. KaTELey has purchased and renovated
a fine old stone house on Buffalo Creek in
Rockbridge County. He recently retired from
the duPont Co. He and his wife moved from
Red Springs, N. C.

Dr. Patrick S. MULLINS has retired from active
practice. He plans to attend the 35th reunion of
his class at the Yale School of Medicine in June.

DONALD C. SMITH is retired from the Pratt &
Whitney division of United Technologies Corp.
He lives in Coventry, Conn.

1940
Dr. MELVIN R. McCaskIt of Little Rock, Ark.,
is a member of the governing board for ob-
stetrics and gynecology at Doctors Hospital. He
is past chief of OB-GYN at St. Vincent’s In-
firmary and the Arkansas Baptist Medical Cen-
ter. McCaskill is assistant professor at the
University of Arkansas Medical School and a

diplomate of the American Board of Obstetrics
and Gynecology. He is also a fellow of the
American College of Obstetrics and Gynecol-

ogy.

JUDGE JOHN C. SNIDOw Jr., is in the third year of
a six-year term as judge of the general district of
Virginia’s 27th Judicial District.

Hat B. WaTTERSON will complete 37 years with
duPont Co. this summer. Thirty years were
spent with the Chattanooga, Tenn., Textile
Fibers plant.

194]

CHARLES M. LANDRUM Jr. was elected to a four-
year term on the judicial council of the Supreme
Court of Kentucky. He was chosen a Fellow of
the International Society of Barristers and is a
past president of the University of Kentucky
alumni association.

Co. STANLEY P. MCGEE Jr. is chairman of the
Louisville and Jefferson County Visitor and
Convention Commission, president of the Ken-
tucky chapter of the Air Force Association, state
chairman of the United Services Organization
(USO), secretary and director of the Louisville
Service Club, district director for the Boy Scouts
of America and secretary to the Louisville and
Jefferson County Air Board.

1943

Connecticut College has appointed R. FRANCIS
JOHNSON, formerly professor of religion, as dean
of the faculty, a position he has filled in an
acting capacity since December, 1976. Johnson,
who is also chairman of the Department of Re-
ligious Studies and a consultant to the standing
liturgical commission of the Episcopal Church,
has been a resident fellow at the Ecumenical
Institute for Advanced Theological Studies in
Jerusalem. He went to Connecticut College from
Amherst in 1969. Johnson is a native of Bed-
ford, Va., and lives in Mystic, Conn.

DONALD L. RICHARDSON has become a partner
and branch manager of William C. Roney and
Co., a stock brokerage firm in Troy, Mich. He
also continues to do adjunct teaching at Walsh
College and at Lawrence Tech.

ROSCOE B. STEPHENSON (See 1966.)

1944

Dr. E. L. BECKER is director of the department
of graduate medical evaluation for the American
Medical Association.

JAMES CALEB STANFIELD, an attorney in Paris,
Ill., is also engaged in banking, farming and
raising pure-bred cattle.

 

   

F. M. Scarlett, ’50

D. L. Shuck, 52

1945

FRANK MARKOE Jr., vice chairman of the board
of Warner-Lambert Co., has been appointed by
President Carter to serve as one of five members
of the board for international broadcasting,
which has statutory oversight responsibilities for
Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, which
provide the Soviet Union and Eastern European
countries with news of both the outside world
and their own societies. Markoe succeeds Foy
Kohler, former ambassador to the Soviet Union.
The appointment is subject to Senate confirma-
tion. Markoe, a resident of Far Hills, N.J., has
worked for Warner-Lambert for approximately
25 years. Prior to his appointment as vice chair-
man of the board, he was executive vice presi-
dent and general counsel.

1947
MARRIAGE: WarRREN G. MERRIN and Sue
Christenbury of Birmingham, Ala., on Jan. 27,
1978. Merrin is sales manager for WSGN radio
in Birmingham.

RoscoE B. STEPHENSON (See 1966.)

1948

JAMES CALEB STANFIELD (See 1944’)

1949

H. WALKER HAWTHORNE, an attorney in Ken-
more, N.Y., is a partner in the firm of Dale,
Hawthorne, Markarian and Ginsburg. Haw-
thorne also serves as a village justice on the
Kenmore Village Court.

JAMEs C. Hirz has been appointed director of
student financial aid at the Medical College of
Virginia, part of Virginia Commonwealth Uni-
versity in Richmond.

‘THE REv. WILLIAM C, SMITH JR. was elected toa
four-year term on the Durham, N.C., city coun-
cil.

1950

Dr. Davin P. LarGey Sr. is practicing general
surgery in Salisbury, Md.

THE REv. Francis M. SCARLETT IV has been
included in the latest edition of Who’s Who in
Religion. He is a Presbyterian minister active in
many parishes and church and civic organiza-
tions. Scarlett is employed by the state of Florida
and leads services at pastorless churches in Florida
and Georgia. Scarlett and his wife, Jane, live in
Tallahassee with their children, Katherine and
Frank.

ROBERT VAN BuREN, president of Midlantic
Banks Inc., was featured in an advertisement
carried in the Feb. 2 issue of the Wall Street

 

Journal. Midlantic Banks Inc. is headquartered
in West Orange, N.J.

1951

WILLIAM P. Rose is president of H. B. Light
Engraving, Inc., manufacturers of quality en-
graved stationery in Rochester, N.Y.

JOE J. SCONCE works for the Agency for Inter-
national Development of the Department of
State. He, his wife and two sons live in Quito,
Ecuador.

1952

DONALD L. SHuck has been honored by Moore,
Leonard & Lynch, Inc., a Pittsburgh-based stock
brokerage and investment banking firm, with
induction into the firm’s prestigious President’s
Club for the third consecutive year. Edwin F.
Scheetz Jr., president of the firm, made the
presentation to Shuck in recognition of his su-
perior professional achievements during 1977.
Shuck joined the firm as a registered repre-
sentative in 1964. Shuck, his wife and their five
children live in Sewickley, Pa.

JOSEPH T. Mackey is a captain for Trans World
Airlines, based in Laguna Niguel, Calif.

CHARLES H. McCain Jr. is manager of long-
range systems for Xerox Corp. in Rochester, N.
Y. He, his wife and three children live nearby in
Pittsford.

JAMES P. MorEFIELD, president of South Texas
Abstract Co. in Houston, Texas, has been named
a director of the newly chartered Citizens Na-
tional Bank.

1953

WILLIAM E. RAwLinGs, formerly a group vice
president with Gillette Co., has now become
president of American Maize-Products Co. The
firm is a mini-conglomerate engaged in both
industrial and consumer product fields.

1954

WILuiaM S. LucKETT, head of the metropolitan
banking group of Morgan Guaranty Trust, was
featured in an advertisement carried in the
March | issue of the Wall Street Journal.

PAUL MASLANSky, producer of a three-part TV
documentary on the life of Martin Luther King,
has recently finished filming The Silent Flute, set
in Israel and featuring David Carradine and Eli
Wallach. He is preparing for the filming of
When You Coming Back Red Ryder, which will
begin soon in New Mexico.

SEDGWICK L. Moss, a long-time employee of
American Airlines, is the Scheduled Airlines
Ticket Office representative at the U.S. De-

partment of Justice in Washington, D. C.

THOMAS E. Rossins was recently reviewed by
the San Francisco Chronicle. He is the author of
two successful novels, Another Roadside Attraction,
published by Doubleday and Co., and Even
Cowgirls Get the Blues, published by Bantam
Books. Originally from Richmond, Robbins now
lives in LaConner, Wash.

1955

WILLIAM H. Bartscu, chief technical advisor
on an International Labour Organization tech-
nical assistance project in Indonesia since Octo-
ber 1975, has been preparing a proposal for the
Government of Indonesia on employment and
income distribution strategy for the country’s
next development plan, 1979-84. Last year
Praeger Publishers published his book, Employ-
ment and Technology Choice in Asian Agriculture,
aimed at policy makers in developing countries
encouraging them to plan to absorb more labor
in agricultural producion. Bartsch is preparing
a book on the history of U. S. fighter plane
operations in the Philippines campaign, 1941-
42, which should be complete in early 1980.

Davip ALAN WOUTERS is a management and
marketing consultant in Toyko, Japan. He keeps
fit with such activities as baseball and judo.

1956

EMMETT R. KELLEY, formerly engaged with
Kelley’s Inc. stores in Richmond, Va., is now
engaged in real estate. Kelley is associated with
Savage & Co. He is a director of the Retail
Merchants Association of greater Richmond and
a former Retailer of the Year.

1958

Dr. J. GILL HOLLAND, a professor of English at
Davidson College, had one of his poems, “No
Forwarding Address”, included in a recently
published collection entitled Contemporary Poetry
of North Carolina.

CHARLES H. MILLER JR. is headmaster of the
Glenelg Country School, a prep school between
Washington, D. C., and Baltimore. He lives in
Ellicott City, Md.

1959

CHARLES W. COLE JR. is president of the First
National Bank of Maryland and of the First
Maryland Bank Corp. He lives in Owing Mills.

JAMEs D. HaGuE JR. is on leave of absence from
teaching in the Norfolk school system to pursue
a doctorate at the University of Southern Cali-
fornia.

1960

ARTHUR BLANK II is a vice-president and na-

11

CLASS NOTES

tional real estate coordinator for Cushman &
Wakefield, a national real estate brokerage firm
in New York City.

The Teachers College of the University of Berlin
has selected Dr. RoBert C. HINKEL for his sec-
ond guest lectureship there in the last three
years. Hinkel is a member of the English De-
partment at Western Michigan University in
Kalamazoo.

1961
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Haywoop M. BALL, a
son, David Winchester, on June 9, 1977. The
Balls have three children and live in Jackson-
ville, Fla., where Haywood is an attorney.

EDWARD A. Ames III is president of the Acco-
mack County Bar Association and chairman of
the Accomack County Welfare Board. He also
is vice-chairman of the board of directors of
First National Bank of Onancock, Va.

Dr. JOHN G. POWELL is president of the Mental
Health Association of Lynchburg and is director
of the Lynchburg Area Association of Retarded
Citizens. He is in the private practice of pedia-
trics. The Powells have four children.

GEORGE R. TRIPLETT, former judge on the 20th
Judicial Circuit in West Virginia, entered the
private practice of law in January, 1977. He and
his wife have three sons. The family lives in
Elkins, W. Va.

1962

Dr. ROBERT P. CARROLL Jr. is in family practice
in Nacogdoches, Texas. He is secretary-treas-
urer of the County Medical Society; president
of the district society; on the State Medical As-
sociation Committee on Health Careers; and on
the executive committee and governing board
of the Greater East Texas Health System
Agency.

1963

DONALD S. CAMPBELL, on sabbatical leave from
Queen’s University in Kingston, Ontario, is
spending a year in Scotland at the University of
Edinburgh.

Johnson and Higgins, a Pennsylvania firm, has
named Cuar es C. Hart manager of their Ma-
rine/Aviation department. A vice president of
J&H, Hart is also a member of the aviation
committee of the Delaware Valley Council, the
Port of Phialdelphia Maritime Society and the
World Trade Association.

F. Fox HENDERSON has been appointed vice
president and general counsel of Turbodyne
Corp. and Worthington Compressors and will
move to the corporate headquarters in Holyoke,
Mass. Henderson, who joined Turbodyne 18
months ago, is a former partner with the firm of
Ireland, Reams, Henderson and Chafetz in

12

   

F. F. Henderson, ’63

Memphis, Tenn. He has taught at the University
of Alabama School of Law and worked as a staff
attorney for Rockwell International.

PauL G. McBrIDE has moved to Mooresville,
Ala. He is working in Huntsville as a commodi-
ties specialist for Dean Witter-Reynolds.

Davip C. Swann has been promoted to corpor-
ate manager for Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.
and will move to Winston-Salem, N. C.

WILLIAM M. MatTTHeEws (See 1966.)

1964

RoBertT H. Powe zt III, a Norfolk lawyer, was
recently featured in the Ledger-Star for his culi-
nary talents. He and his wife, Elayne, have a son
and a daughter.

JUDGE SAMUEL J. SMITH has been appointed
chairman of the Benefits Review Board of the
U.S. Department of Labor. This board exercises
appellate review authority, formerly vested in
the U. S. District Courts, in Longshore and
Harbor Workers Act and Black Lung Act cases.

EDWARD A. AMESs III (See 1961.)

1965
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEAN S. FRIEDBERG, a
son, Michael Joseph, on July 5, 1977. Friedberg
lives in Columbia, Md., and works for the man-
agement consulting firm of McKinsey and Co.

S. REED PAYNTER was transferred by duPont to
New York where he is assistant manager of the
New York regional marketing office. He is re-
sponsible for selling synthetic textile fibers to
apparel and home furnishings industries.

STEPHEN W. RipeouT and Rosert J. TEST, ’69,
are associates 1n a general law practice in Alex-
andria, Va.

FREDERICK A. STONE was promoted to second
vice president-securities by Shenandoah Life
Insurance Co. on March 1, 1978. He is respon-
sible for management of bond and stock invest-
ments and short term cash. Stone and his wife,
Ardell, live in Roanoke, Va., with their three
children.

STEWART MINOR Hurtrt (See 1972.)

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Houston L. BELL JR., a
son, Houston Lester III, on Jan. 20, 1978. Bell
is a senior vice-president of Roanoke Memorial
Hospital. The Bells, who live in Salem, Va., also
have a daughter.

RUDOLPH (DUKE) BUMGARDNER III, a Staunton,

Va., attorney, was sworn in as a judge on the
25th Judicial Circuit on March 8, taking the
place of Judge Pau A. HousTeEIn, ’32, of Lex-
ington, who retired in December. Judge William
S. Moffett Jr. of Staunton and Judge Roscoe B.
STEPHENSON, '43, ’47L, of Covington, also on
the 25th Judicial Circuit, participated in the
ceremony. Bumgardner, one of the youngest of
the more than 100 circuit court judges in the
state, will sit in seven Virginia counties and five
cities. Bumgardner and his wife, Dorothy, have
two children.

BAXTER L. Davis and WILLIAM M. MATTHEWS,
63, and their law partner, Ron L. Quigley are
authors of a new book, Georgia Law Office Ad-
ministration.

DAVID FLEISCHER is assistant professor at the
George Washington University School of Medi-
cine and assistant chief of medicine at the
Washington Veterans Administration Hospital.
Fleischer, his wife, Karen, and two sons moved
to Washington in July, 1977.

PAUL R. SCHLESINGER Is associated with Morgan
Guaranty Trust Co. of New York City.

1967

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES T. STAPLES, a
daughter, Elizabeth Dorsey, on May 4, 1977, in
Columbus, Ga.

PHILANDER P. CLAxTOoN III, chief executive
officer of Watkins Corp., an investment firm in
McLean, Va., is the head of an investor group
acquiring control of the Buffalo-based Firstmark
Corp. The group has agreed in principle to buy
approximately 61 percent of Firstmark’s com-
mon stock for an estimated $8 million. Claxton
has interests in several firms in the Washington,
D. C., area includng International House of
Pancake franchises.

KEVIN C. EARLE is studying for the master of
divinity degree at the Assemblies of God
Graduate School at Springfield, Mo. He plans
to earn a second master’s in cultural anthropol-
ogy, and then work as a missionary with primi-
tive Indian tribes in Latin America.

THomas J. Harpin IJ, a securities analyst in the
investment management division, has been
promoted to vice president by North Carolina
National Bank. Hardin lives in Charlotte, N. C.,
with his wife and three-year-old daughter.

FRANK WestT MorRISON is a partner in the law
firm of Bell, Coward, Morrison and Spies in
Lynchburg, Va.

Dr. THEODORE K. Oates II will complete his
residency in general surgery at the University
of Rochester in June and has a fellowship in
peripheral vascular surgery in Toronto for the
following year.

 

   

J . I. Briggs, 68 Pf. Lykes III, ’70

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN H. WarD IV, ason,
Andrew Blythin, on Nov. 24, 1977. Ward is
associated with Financial Benefit Service Corp.
of Louisville, Ky. The family lives in Anchorage,
Ky.

CHARLES M. BERGER is corporate counsel and
secretary of Huyck Corp. in Wake Forest, N. C.
He is living in Raleigh.

Manufacturers Hanover Trust has elected JEF-
FREY |’. BRIGGS as an assistant vice president in
the corporate cash management department.
He is a graduate of the American Institute of
Banking. Briggs, his wife and son live in Port
Chester, N. Y.

Puitie G. Corre. Jr. has earned the MLS. de-
gree in accounting from the University of Ken-
tucky and is working on his doctorate. A captain
in the army, he teaches Civil War military history
in the R.O.T.C. department at Kentucky. Cottell
and his wife, Lin, have two children, Sigird and
Philip.

H. GiLBert SMITH JR. earned a‘Ph.D. in bio-
chemistry in 1976. Since then, he has been guest
scientist at the Institute for Neurobiology of the
German Nuclear Research Center in Juelich,
West Germany.

STEPHEN H. Warrts II is vice president-counsel
for CNG Transmission Co., a natural gas pipe-
line firm. Watts, his wife, Beverly, and daughter,
Day, are living in Richmond. Watts had practiced
law in Lynchburg with his father, James O.
Watts Jr., 36, ’38L, who remains in practice
there.

1969

FREDERICK C. FLETCHER I] is associated with the
law firm of Swartz, Campbell and Detweiler in
Philadelphia. Fletcher lives in Devon and runs
cross-country on the weekends.

JAMES C. HAMILL has been appointed assistant
to the director of the Bureau of Competition of
the Federal Trade Commission. Hamill lives in
Washington.

RoBerT J. Test (See 1965.)

1970

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN NOLAN, a son,
Michael Kyle, on March 17, 1977. The family
lives in Springfield, Va. Nolan is employed by
the U. S. Post Office in Washington, D. C.

Josepu T. Lyxes III has been appointed tonnage
controller on the staff of Lykes Brothers Steam-
ship Co., Inc. Previously he held overseas posts
in London, Antwerp and Tokyo.

FRANK WEsT Morrison (See 1967.)

  

J. W. Carson, ’72

L. W. Croft,

1971
MARRIAGE: Dr. THomas E. REYNOLDS and
Charla Keith Leonard on June 12, 1977. Rey-
nolds is in his first year of a three-year residency
in family practice at Riverside hospital in New-
port News, Va.

MADISON F. Cote Jr. has been named account
manager for the Atlanta-based insurance firm
of Johnson & Higgins.

JEFFREY A. DAVIS is a law associate with the firm
of Reynolds, Allen and Cook in Houston.

Capt. JOHN O. ELLIS JR. is completing his final
army tour as a defense counsel in the JAG office
at Fort Lewis, Wash.

E. WRrEN Hupoins and his wife, Leigh, are in
Washington state where Hudgins is finishing
work on his Ph.D. in educational psychology.
He received an M.A. in psychology from the
University of Northern Colorado and taught
French and skiing in Verbier, Switzerland, prior
to moving to Seattle.

STEPHEN H. KERKAM and his wife, Bev, are both
employed by the Board of Education in Carroll
County, Md. They live in Westminster.

CHRISTOPHER B. Murray received the M.F.A.
in furniture design from Virginia Common-
wealth University last June. Murray has a shop
in the McGuffey Arts Center in Charlottesville,
where he manufactures “one-of-a-kind furni-
ture for enormous sums of money.”

MICHAEL PECK, after serving with the U. S. Army
in Korea and Italy, is now attending Vanderbilt
University Law School.

1972

MARRIAGE: J. PAYNE HINDSLEY and Pamela A.
McDonnell on Feb. 25, 1978, in Houston. Mem-
bers of the wedding included William G. C.
Clore, ’72; Richard E. Gray, ’73; Richard M.
Marsh, ’73; and William C. Zattau, ’71. Hindsley
is with the American General Insurance Cos. in
Houston.

MARRIAGE: STEWART MINOR Hurtrt and Su-
zanne Spence Hearon on Jan. 20, 1978, in Anna-
polis, Md. Hurtt lives in Laurel, Md.

MARRIAGE: RosBert M. TURNBULL and Ann
Tucker Bell on Sept. 10, 1977, in Staunton, Va.
Groomsmen included B. Harrison Turnbull,
75; William B. Boyd, ’72; George C. Cherry,
°72; and William C. Washburn Jr., 66. Turnbull
is an investment officer for First and Merchants
Corp. in Richmond where he is involved with
the asset and liability management function of
the bank holding company. He is currently
president of the Richmond W&L Alumni
Chapter.

 

73°

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN B. BLALOCK JR., a
daughter, Beverly, on Aug. 31, 1977. Blalock
completed medical school at the University of
Alabama in 1975 and is a second-year general
surgery resident at the University of Mississippi
Medical Center in Jackson.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. GEORGE STOOK, a son,
Everett George III, on July 2, 1977, in Lynch-
burg, Va. Stook is a financial analyst for Lynch-
burg Foundry.

JAMES W. Carson has been appointed an opera-
tions officer and assistant treasurer of Trust Co.
of Georgia, an Atlanta-based statewide bank
holding company. He is assigned to the control
& planning department. Carson joined the
company in 1976 as a financial analyst. He had
previously been employed by the Atlantic Steel
Co. in Atlanta. He and his wife, Constance,
reside in Marietta, Ga.

FREDERICK C. FLETCHER II (See 1969.)

1973
MARRIAGE: JaMEs F. BARTER and Anne [arra-
bino in June, 1977. Barter, who graduated from
the University of Virginia Medical School, is
completing an internship in internal medicine
at the University of Kentucky.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. UppikE JR., a
daughter, Abigail Anne, on Oct. 10, 1977. Up-
dike is married to the former Penelope Jane
McKay of Winter Haven, Fla. The family resides
in Lake Wales, Fla., where Updike is a vice
president of Alcoma Association, Inc.

BRIAN R. ADAMS is working at the Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts as an employee
of the National Park Service. Previously, he
worked for the Park Service at the Robert E.
Lee Memorial at Arlington House after duty
with the Peace Corps in Korea.

L. PRicE BLACKFORD will be working for the
next two years in the London office of Dillon
Read Overseas Corp., after which he will return
to New York.

LAWRENCE M. Crort, of Columbia, S. C., has
been made a vice president and trust planning
officer of the First National Bank of South
Carolina. Croft, who joined the bank in 1973, is
in business development. He is a director of the
Columbia Touchdown Club and the Richland
County unit of the American Cancer Society,
and is a member of the Columbia Sertoma Club
and the Executive Association of Greater
Columbia. He is also a member of the American,
South Carolina, and Richland County Bar As-
sociations, and the American Judicative Society.

W. Parrick HINELY’s writings and_ photo-
graphy have recently been published in Jazz

13

WSL was well represented at the wedding of Edwin O.
Wiley, ’74, to Sally Collins on Aug. 21, 1977, at Ramsey,
N.J. The wedding party included (left to right) Jim
Lawson, ’77; Mac McCarthy, ’76; Tom Suydan, ’75; Paul
E. Weeks, ’72; David Piner, ’74; Sally Wiley; Edwin O.
Wiley; David Davis, ’77; Buster Briggs, ’76; Bob Lander,
°76; Bob Evans, ’74; and Richard Jenkins, ’74. The
couple lives at Awosting-Hewitt, N. J.; Wiley is attending
Fairleigh Dickenson University Dental School.

magazine and the International Jazz Forum. He is
freelancing in Florida, and has joined the East
Florida Rangers of the Historic Florida Militia,
headquartered in St. Augustine, the nation’s
oldest city.

CHARLES D. PERRy JR. is assistant vice president
and assistant secretary-treasurer of Perry Supply
Co. in Birmingham, Ala.

JOHN RIDGLEY PorTER III, an attorney, was re-
cently selected as the Outstanding Young Man
of 1977 in Portsmouth, Va. He is an avid history
buff, whose family figures prominently in
Tidewater history.

1974

Scott S. AINSLIE and his wife, Laurie, spent the
past year touring Ireland, France, Germany and
England where he performed a concert series
of traditional music sponsored by the U. S. In-
formation Service and the British Arts Council.
He lives in Chapel Hill, N. C., and performs
regularly in that area.

NorMaAN D. FaGGE expects to complete his mas-
ters degree in geology this spring at the Univer-
sity of Kentucky.

J.S. JAY) FULCHER is a representative for Shen-

TELL US!

andoah Life Insurance Co. in Roanoke and
Lexington. He was awarded membership in the
company’s President’s Cabinet for his record
sales in 1977. Fulcher was also awarded the
National Health Insurance Quality Award and
membership in the Virginia Association of Life
Underwriters Leaders Club.

DUNCAN S. KLINEDINST Is a senior law student at
the University of Virginia. Following gradua-
tion this spring, he plans to work in Washing-
ton.

Gary W. McAultrFre and his wife, Betty, have
moved to Richmond where he is a territorial

sales representative for the Ciba Pharmaceutical
Co.

DouGLas NEWELL is working on an M.B.A. at
the College of William and Mary and is living in
Williamsburg.

R. PALMER TRICE II lives in Portsmouth, Va.,
and works with high school students for Young
Life in Chesapeake.

1975
MARRIAGE: Jor WELDEN JR. and Karen Cribb

in September, 1977. The couple lives in Bir-
mingham, Ala., where Welden is in his third

YOU ARE NOW A REPORTER FOR W&L. Please send us news of yourself so that we
can pass it on through the magazine to your W&L friends. AND REMEMBER, DON’T
MAKE A MOVE WITHOUT LETTING US KNOW. Every address change provided
by the Post Office now costs 25 cents. We could go broke at that rate. So please send
your correct address and news to Alumni Office, Washington and Lee University,

Lexington, Virginia 24450.

 

 

Name Class
Address
City State Zip

 

News Item

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

year at the University of Alabama School of
Medicine.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEFFREY S. MILLER, a
daughter, Amy Adele, on Oct. 25, 1977. The
Millers also have a son and the family lives in
Jacksonville, N. C.

GREGG AMONETTE Is vice president of Saunders
Coal Corp. in Richmond. His chief responsibility
is analysis of coal, oil and gas ventures for foreign
and domestic investors.

BEN BaILey suffered a leg injury 1n an automo-
bile accident and was forced to miss a year of law
school at Harvard. He worked for a judge on
the state court of claims while recuperating. He
will return for his second year of law at Harvard
in the fall.

WILLIAM H. BIESEL JR. is employed at Hunt-
Stephens Investment, an investment firm
specializing in designing and developing
shopping centers. He lives in Dallas.

ROBERT H. CRAwrForp works in the Dallas
downtown store of Neiman-Marcus. He began
as a wine salesman and is now in the credit-
customer service department.

THOMAS Barry Davis of Chevy Chase, Md.,
associate publisher and advertising director of
the magazine Washington Dossier, is forming a
new mail order company, The Soundsationals,
which will market high quality sound and televi-
sion systems at discount prices.

JOHN R. EmMBREE, now in his third year as tennis
pro at the Boonsboro Country Club in Lynch-
burg, recently played professionally in Australia
and New Zealand.

THAD GRUNDY Jr. is enrolled in the first year
law class at the University of Houston.

ROBERT H. F. JONes works in the commercial
credit department of the First City Bank of
Dallas and occasionally does freelance photo-

graphy.

Guy H. Kerr expects to graduate from SMU
Law School in May, 1978, and to begin practice
with the firm of Locke, Purnell, Boren, Laney
and Neely. He and his wife, Cindy, live in
Dallas.

Dan K. Moore received the M.B.A. in finance
from Florida Atlantic University in March, 1978,
and lives in Boynton Beach, Fla.

VERNON F. OTTENRITTER JR. has been elected
vice president of the sophomore class at the
University of Maryland Dental School.

Eric C. ROweE made a tour of Europe during
the Christmas season and one of the stops was in

 

Bamberg, Germany, to visit classmate Kim
STENSON and his wife, Kathy.

JAMES WILSON is in his third year as account
representative in the Roanoke Times & World
News retail advertising department. He also
coaches junior varsity basketball at Roanoke
Catholic High School.

1976
MARRIAGE: WILLIAM L. Cooper III and Robin
Kera Turner on Sept. 24, 1977, in Rocky Mount,
Va. Classmate GERALD D. N. Bryant III was a
groomsman. The Coopers live in Alexandria.
He is a legislative assistant to Congressman M.
Caldwell Butler.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAmMes A. Mercy, a
daughter, Corey Rogers, on Oct. 18, 1977.
Mercy and his wife, the former Deborah Rogers
live in Decatur, Ga. He is working on his Ph.D.
in sociology at Emory University.

JeFrFREY A. Baum is a second-year medical stu-
dent at the University of Virginia.

J. GLENN DULKEN and Brian M. LEVINE are
owners and operators of the Nautilus Fitness
Center in Towson, Md. The physical gondition-
ing center has attracted wide attention in local
newspaper and television coverage. Among the
center’s members are many Baltimore athletes
including players from the Colts and the
Orioles.

Davin K. EuBANK is a management trainee with
Citizens Bank and Trust in Silver Spring, Md.
He is taking courses with the American Institute
of Banking in Washington.

After completing his M.B.A. at St. Bonaventure
University in May, JOHN HENZEL Jr. will enter
the University of Georgia to earn the Ph.D. in
business finance. He hopes to teach at a univer-
sity and work as a consultant.

The 2nd Street Gallery in Charlottesville dis-
played woodcarvings and other art by STEVEN
K. RoBertTs from March 12 to April 13. Roberts,
who studied in both Asia and Europe, is now
living in Lexington.

RUSHTON E. PATTERSON JR. is completing his
second year of medical school at the University
of Tennessee in Memphis.

PEYTON A. VIA lives in Virginia Beach and is
working ina management training program of
Virginia National Bank.

1977

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM R. BALDWIN
III, ason, Andrew MacLeod, on Feb. 13, 1978.
The family lives in Abingdon, Va.

HOFFMAN F. Brown III isa first-year student at

center.

Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He
is already licensed to preach by Concord Baptist
Church of Baltimore and plans to study for
ordination.

WILLIAM H. CLeMons is working on the M.B.A.
in international management at the University
of Dallas.

W. CralG COTHRAN is doing cancer research in
the microbiology department of the University
of Alabama at Birmingham. He is working ona
radio-immune assay.

ALLEN R. EMMERT III is a chemist for Martin
Marietta Cement Co. in Martinsburg, W. Va.

STEVEN N. GABELMAN is a teaching assistant at
Georgia Tech, where he is working on his mas-
ter’s degree.

SHELTON Barcus HUNTER is attending law
school at Texas Tech University in Lubbock.

THomaS H. Murpuy is with the land department
of the Arkansas-Louisiana Gas Co. in Shreve-
port, La.

WILLIAM G. OGLEsBy is vice president of All
American Insurance Agency, Inc., in Rich-
mond, Va. He plans to enroll in law school in
the fall, probably at Pepperdine University in
Malibu, Calif.

VAUGHAN M. PULTz is living in Franconia, West
Germany, and recently spent a week in Prague
with a group from the foreign students’ office at
the University of Erlangen-Nurenberg.

W. KIRKLAND RuFFIN is a first-year medical stu-
dent at the University of Virginia.

EARL W. (SANDY) STRADTMAN JR. is attending
Harvard Medical School.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1902
JUDGE WILLIAM HENRY Brown, Washington
and Lee’s oldest graduate, died Feb. 23, 1978,
in Oklahoma City, Okla., at the age of 101. Born
in Mississippi, he was elected to the Mississippi
legislature at 23, two years before he attended
W&L. He went to Oklahoma in 1906, one year
before statehood, settling in Stigler. After
statehood was approved, Brown was named
judge of the 5th Judicial District, noted for
cattle stealing, murder, and bank, train and post
office robberies. In 1919 he entered private
practice and later moved to Muskogee. In 1929
Brown moved to Oklahoma City to become
assistant state attorney general and in 1931

Brian Levine, ’76, (left) and Glenn
Dulken, ’76, with Baltimore Oriole pitcher
Jim Palmer in their physical conditioning

became general counsel for the Oklahoma
Corporation Commission. Then as Oklahoma
City Municipal counselor, he drew up the first
parking meter ordinance ever drafted in the
United States. Brown received _ special
recognition in November, 1972, from the
Oklahoma Bar Association which cited his legal
participation in parking meter cases. Brown
was a charter member of the National Cowboy
Hall of Fame and Western Heritage Center.

1911

GEORGE COLE BELL died in Monticello, Fla., on
Jan. 29, 1978. After retiring from the
Aluminum Steamship Line of Philadelphia, he
was a regional purchasing agent for the Forest
Service. He retired to Florida some years ago.

1912

BENJAMIN CLINE MOooMAw Jr.,_ known
throughout Virginia as the “father of the
Gathright Dam,” died March 12, 1978, at his
home in Falling Springs Valley near Hot
Springs, Va. For more than 37 years, Moomaw
led the Covington-Alleghany County Chamber
of Commerce’s program to bring industry to
the Alleghany highlands. He was instrumental
in his support of the controversial Gathright
Dam, which was conceived in 1945 and should
be completed next year on the Jackson River
north of Covington. He was the last charter
member of the Covington-Hot Springs Rotary
Club, formed in 1920, and was recently
honored by that club by being named a Paul
Harris Fellow, the highest award given by
Rotarians. He was a former secretary and past
president of the Virginia Folklore Society, a
member and chairman of the Dabney S.
Lancaster Community College board of
directors, and an elder for more than 50 years
in the Sinking Springs Presbyterian Church.

1915

WALTER CALAHILL LESTER, a resident of
Roanoke, Va., died Feb. 23, 1978. At one time,
Lester was employed by the United Supply Co.,
Inc., of Thorpe, W. Va.

1916

ALBERT NICHOLAS Cocks, a_ resident of
Corvallis, Ore., and a former dealer and
distributor of automobiles, died Feb. 18, 1978.
Cocks had worked in Virginia, Washington,
D.C., and Fresno, Calif.

1918

Harry M. Abams, former Circuit Court
Judge in Memphis, Tenn., died Feb. 18, 1978.
He served as judge from 1934 to 1958. Adams
began his law career in 1919 after serving in the
Navy during World War I. He was first vice
president and treasurer of the Shelby County

15

IN MEMORIAM

Bar Association. While at W&L, Adams starred
in football and basketball.

1921

BENJAMIN W. PARTLOW S8R., an associate pro-
fessor of chemistry at Madison College in Har-
risonburg, Va., for 24 years before his retire-
ment in 1968, died Jan. 6, 1978. Partlow had
lived in Harrisonburg since 1944. He did
graduate work at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and George Washington Univer-
sity. Partlow also taught at Staunton Military
Academy, Randolph-Macon Academy and
Emory and Henry College before going to
Madison.

1923

Davip Hawkins LINDSAy, a former school
teacher at Fork Union Military Academy and
Commonwealth’s Attorney from Gloucester Co.
(Va.) in 1927, died Jan. 5, 1978. Lindsay prac-
ticed law until 1942. He had been retired for
some years.

FREDERIC NEAL Pass, a retired president of the
Service Agency, Inc., a large insurance firm in
Detroit, Mich., died in Gulfport, Miss., on Feb.
3, 1978. Pass had a long and distinguished
record in the insurance field and at one time,
while with Casualty Insurance Cos., had
been in Hartford, Conn.; Denver, Colo.; New
Orleans; Birmingham; Little Rock, Ark.; Chica-
go; and other large branches. He had lived in
Gulfport for several years.

Dr. MALCOLM STINNET, a long-time physician in
Buchanan, Va., died on Nov. 29, 1977, in Buch-
anan.

1926

JAmeEs LUKIN Brown, who operated the family
farms, rentals, and drug business in Silex, Mo.,
died in February, 1978. Brown was a past em-
ployee of the Missouri State Revenue Depart-
ment and was once a candidate for the Missouri
legislature. He was a long-time member of the
St. Louis Metro Citizens Council and just prior
to his death was a tax consultant and occasional
writer.

LEE HAMILTON REBER, a retired superintendent
of transportation for Eastern Greyhound Corp.,
died Feb. 15, 1978, in Glenarm, Md. At one
time Reber was in the real estate business in
Florida and for twelve years was special repre-
sentative for the Commercial Investment Trust
Corp. in Southern California and Arizona. He
retired from Greyhound in 1966.

1927

FRANK BRUCE JACKSON, a former vice president
and director of Southwestern Wood Preserving
Co. of Muskogee, Okla., died Jan. 3, 1978. Jack-

16

son retired from Southwestern in 1976 after 36
years with the firm. Jackson was involved in
many Civic activities and was a member of the
board of directors of the Boy Scouts Council.

HERMAN DANIEL VOORHEES, an attorney in
Houston, Texas, died Aug. 9, 1977. Voorhees
had been former owner and operator of the
Hempstead Abstract Co. and had been a part
owner and publisher of the Hempstead Waller Co.
News. Before service in the Navy during World
War II, he worked with the U.S. Post Office.
Voorhees was a member of the State Bar, Hous-
ton Bar and American Bar Associations. He
had served on the legal aid committee for the
Texas State Bar and was chairman of that com-
mittee in 1957-58.

1929

ROBERT CLOW Burris, who retired from the
public accounting firm of Turner, Burris and
Wolf in October, 1973, after 27 years, died in
Mt. Vernon, Ohio, on Feb. 27, 1978.

WILLIAM Woop Grass III, a Presbyterian min-
ister, died Jan. 31, 1978, in Clarkton, N.C. Glass
held pastorates in Virginia, Georgia, Alabama
and Kentucky. He was first ordained by the
Roanoke Presbytery in October, 1935. He held
an honorary doctor of divinity degree from
Athens College of Alabama.

JAMES PricE Lowry, a resident of Venice, Fla.,
and retired general buildings engineer for the
Bell Telephone Co. of Pennsylvania, died Feb.
7, 1978. Lowry served with the Navy during
World War II and retired from the Naval Re-
serve in 1966 with the permanent rank of cap-
tain. Officiating at the services in Venice was his
brother, the Rev. Dr. Charles W. Lowry, ’26.

1930

WILLIAM E. R. (PECK) BYRNE JR., a certified
public accountant, died Feb. 21, 1978, in Yuma,
Ariz. He was an active member of the national
foundation of the March of Dimes for 25 years.
Prior to moving to Yuma in 1945, Byrne was
chief auditor of the West Virginia Tax Commis-
sion’s income tax division.

1931

GeorGE H. JENKINS SR., a farmer and business-
man in Columbia, S.C., died Feb. 17, 1978. He
had been owner and president of the board of
directors of Jenkins Development Co., a real
estate firm. Jenkins was a 35-year member of
the Lions Club and received the Lion of the
Year award in 1970. He had served as chairman
of the Crabtree watershed project and was a
member of the city planning commission.

PHILIP DOANE SHARP, formerly an employee
with duPont Rayon Corp., died in Richmond,
Va., on Jan. 14, 1978.

1932

CLARENCE PENDLETON (BILL) LEE JR., humani-
ties teacher at Jacksonville University in Jack-
sonville, Fla., died March 7, 1978. Lee was the
chairman of the humanities division from 1967
to 1973. He began teaching in Jacksonville in
1962 and was elected Professor of the Year in
1967. Lee had taught at Harvard University,
Clark University, the University of Tennessee and
Southwestern University. Three days following
his death, Lee had been scheduled to attend the
professor of the year banquet to receive a silver
tray honoring his career. Lee was a Rhodes
scholar, diplomat, author, musician, benefactor
and teacher. He had been a Fulbright Professor
at the University of Athens in Greece, and served
as cultural attache in Athens and Brussels during
the 1940s.

1935

Dr. WILLIAM ARTHUR COVER, former director
of the Buchanan-Tazewell district for the State
Health Department, died Dec. 27, 1977. Cover
worked as an accountant for E. I. duPont de
Nemours from 1935 to 1941. He then practiced
medicine until 1968. He was named to his last
post in February, 1969. Cover was president of
both the Buchanan County and Tazewell County
medical societies. He served two four-year terms
on the Tazewell Town Council.

1938

EArt THomMas WELLS, president of E. T. Wells,
Inc., a large farming operation in Helena, Ark.,
died Feb. 1, 1978. Wells was a successful farmer
and a director in several farming organizations
in both the state and the county. He was a former
director of Farmers Oil & Supply Co. in Helena.

1939

THE Rev. Jos—EPH ScoTr CROWDER, a retired
Methodist minister, died in Alexandria, Va., on
Feb. 21, 1978. Crowder entered the church in
1944 and at one time was minister of the River
Road United Methodist Church in Richmond,
Va. More recently, he had been the administra-
tor of the Hermitage Retirement Home in
Alexandria.

1949

GEORGE Mark Losey, director of community
development for Marshall, Texas, since 1975,
died Jan. 31, 1978. Before his development job,
Losey was assistant executive director and real
estate director for Marshall’s urban renewal
agency. Losey moved to Marshall from New
Mexico, where he had been a staff member at
the New Mexico Military Institute, a farmer,
real estate broker and a cashier for the American
Express Co. He was a member of the Marshall
Lions Club and was president of the Harrison
County Humane Society.

Continued from Page 1
Minor L. Rogers, assistant professor of
religion at W&L, is the author of the
introduction.

The symposium took place under the
auspices of the Philip Fullerton
Howerton Fund at W&L. That
endowment was established in 1973 by

 

 

Mrs. Howerton as a memorial to her late

husband, for the purpose of supporting
special programs in the Department of
Religion. Howerton, a 1925 alumnus,
was a prominent Charlotte, N. C.,
insurance executive and a former
moderator of the Presbyterian Church
in the U.S. (Southern).

In addition to several lectures
reflecting “the dialogue within
Christianity,” the book contains
responses from scholars of the
Buddhist, Hindu, Jewish, and Muslim
faiths.

INVESTMENTS CLASS IN N.Y.
Students in Dr. Joseph Goldsten’s
investments class took a field trip to New

York City this winter for first-hand
exposure to the operations of stock and
commodity exchanges, investment firms

and the other institutions of the world
of investments.

The 22 students had a lecture from
an officer of the New York Stock
Exchange, and they visited the floor of
the exchange at closing time, courtesy of
William R. Johnston, 61, a trading
specialist. (Johnston’s father used to do
the same thing for Dean Adams’
investment students.) They met with
commodities specialists, Federal Reserve
Bank economists and the New York
Society of Security Analysts; they spent a
day at Dean Whitter, the investment
company, and observed operations at
the American Stock Exchange and at
Solomon Bros., the bond-trading firm.

 

SUMMER-STOCK THEATRE

The Troubadour Theatre will
be transformed this summer into
the Henry Street Playhouse and
Stock Company, a theatrical sum-
mer-stock troupe with 19th-century
traditions and consisting largely of
W&L students.

Receiving support from both
Lexington and the University (cash
from the city and air conditioning
for the theater from W&L), the
company will produce three turn-
of-the-century plays—Little Mary
Sunshine, a musical melodrama;
Matchmaker, written by Thornton
Wilder and later stolen—lock, stock
and cast names—to become Hello
Dolly; and Rip Van Winkle, based on
the story by Washington Irving and
one of America’s most popular plays
between 1850 and 1910.

Rip Van Winkle will run in early
June, Little Mary Sunshine in mid- and
late June, and Matchmaker in late
June and early July. The theater
plans nightly performances at 8 and
Saturday matinees at 2 p.m.

The summertime Henry Street
Playhouse was the idea of drama
professors Albert C. Gordon and
Thomas J. Ziegler, and has been
launched by the students enrolled
in W&L’s Spring Term “total theat-
er” class.

 

 

 

 

NEW LAW LIBRARIAN

Sarah K. (Sally) Wiant has been
named law librarian at the School of
Law. She has been assistant law librarian
since 1972 and acting head law librarian
since this past Jan. 1, when the former
law librarian, Peyton R. Neal Jr., left.

She has her advanced library degree

 

Sally Wiant

from North Texas State University in
Denton and received her undergraduate
education at Western State College,
Gunnison, Colo., with a major in social
studies and minors in biology and
secondary education.

Wiant has also been taking law
courses at W&L and will receive her
juris doctor degree this June.

She will be an assistant professor of
law at W&L beginning next fall as well.

She is a member of the American
Association of Law Libraries and current
chairman of its Education Committee
and former chairman of its conference
of Newer Law Librarians. She is also a
member of the Virginia Special Libraries
Association and a former chairman of
that organization’s Recruitment and
Membership committees.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Ww

MR RUPERT N LATTURE

BOX 886 |
LEXINGTON VA
24450 512828

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

For members and their immediate families presents

Pick A Trip 1978

 

 

  

IRCLANG «*«x«

Your Trip Includes-
July 24—August 1, 1978 our [rip inciuae
D T D % Round trip jet pansportation oe et interngtions! Airport) vie
i rans International Airlines’ wide-bodie - meals and beverages serve
us es eparture a aloft*) ; stereo music and in-flight movies available at a nominal charge; normally

evening departure

(+15% Tax & Service) @ Deluxe accommodations for three nights in Dublin at the BURLINGTON
Per person-Double occupancy HOTEL (or similar) **
Single Supplement - $100.00 ® Continental breakfast daily in Dublin (tax and service included)

® Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Dublin to Limerick
(Shannon)

® Beautiful accommodations for two nights in Limerick at the LIMERICK RYAN
HOTEL or LIMERICK INN HOTEL (or similar) **

@ Continental breakfast daily in-Limerick (tax and service included)

@ Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Limerick to Tralee, in
the heart of ‘’Ryan’s Daughter” country

Beautiful accommodations for two nights in Tralee at the MT. BRANDON
HOTEL (or similar) **

Continental breakfast daily in Tralee (tax and service included)

Passengers will be accompanied by Ireland’s finest guides during transfers
Exciting low-cost optional tours available

United States departure tax ($3.00) included T

All gratuities for chambermaids, bellmen and doormen

All round trip transfers and baggage handling from airport to hotels

Free time to pursue your Own interests; no
regimentation

 

t lreland departure tax (approx. $5.25) not included . og
* Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge e@ Experienced escort and hotel hospitality desk,

** Some tours will be three nights in Limerick, two nights in Tralee, two nights staffed by an on-site team of professionals
in Dublin/or three nights in Tralee, two nights in Dublin, two nights in Limerick

 

For further information, contact: William C. Washburn, Washington and Lee University, Alumni, Inc., Lexington, VA 24450
PHONE: (703) 463-9111 Ext. 214--318

 

 

