j
|
|

the alumni magazine of washington and lee university

 

ST

JANUARY 1972

 

ARCHIVES

. oF
j mim,
sy oD. / o-

} —
" / Bi
\ Jj ; bat

LA] 2% (
WI “Tatu

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 47, Number 1, January 1972

William C. Washburn 740.000.0000. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman.............0...00.00.... Managing Editor
A. Michael Philipps ’64.....00.00..0.00c008. Associate Editor

and Photographer
Robert S. Keefe, ’68........000...00000.00002.. Contributing Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter........0..0... ee Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Report on W&L Today... ee ]
W&L and the Supreme Court... 4
W&L’s Helpful Neighbor... 8
Curriculum Additions 2.0... cece cece 10
Szlasa Wins ‘Top Homor..........00.0000000 es 15
First Event in New Gym......00...00..0ee. aes 16
A ‘Turnabout Football Season ........0.00000000 i. 18
Class NOtes 2.0.0.0... bebe bebe tttette tees 20
In Memoriam 20....0....5.00 000000 c cece cece cceeccvcvvvvevevreterrrreree 23
Name Your Candidate oo... 24

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RicHarp H. TurreEtx, 49, Short Hills, N.J.
President

A. CHRISTIAN Compton, ’50, Richmond, Va.
Vice President

T. Hat Crarke, ’38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WasHBurRN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Upton BEALL, 51, Tyler, ‘Texas
RIcHARD D. Haynes, 758, Dallas, ‘Texas
WiLuiaM H. Hivuier, 738, Chicago, Il.

S. L. Koran, Jr., 43, Memphis, Tenn.

J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, 50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. ALVIN PHILPOTT, 45, Lexington, N.C.
Emit C. RAssMAN, III, ’41, Midland, Texas
BEAUREGARD A. REepMoNnpD, ’55, New Orleans, La.
EvERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the cover: Washington and Lee unveiled its
new basketball floor on Dec. 1 before 3,000 en-
thusiastic spectators, who unhappily saw the Uni-
versity of Virginia spoil the Generals’ debut in their
spacious new home. In the cover photograph, senior
center John Glace runs into a big problem—Cava-
liers’ 6-10 center Scott McCandlish, who blocks
Glace’s jump shot.

 

 

 

 

   

 

by Steve Robinson

  
    
 
 
 

 

  

1 say for myself, and I am sure ©

t V "Washington and Lee, again. pri-
| lishe al thing t to

 

emphasize w were not cau used by 1 me 7 nt abe b ers
mmu unity, t the s situation is bad -k to norm

  
   
       
  
  
      
 
  
 

 

   

in it. “The Fiénor Siete tes |
ington and Lee for well « over a “cen itu ci a ae
will continue to a sO. a can cz asil 7 Ww v alk <0 ut of th

    

 
 

 

“Washi hington and | Le Lee |
if at all. ae ge
~The second issue concerns 5 doy mi fe ry wy fiat arie

. The question a several years af

at t great iengt h. The q ver
| but 7 wile try to make it as s inple as p

Nt i OI the . oka and in /
all instances ‘th had to be out. by. some hour of the |

 

their new. environment t before making ¢ these ic epladint

That was three years 2 a BO, and | now y the contr nove
over what is known as .
one as far as the Univers rsity is. ned. Limitations
rogcunedr the q University are almost 1 ne! aie In fact,

 

  

  

 

is in | keeping o |

rain of ing

 

   

 

jaan io

 

 
  
 
 
  
  
  

first a a.m. and dater extended to 4 am. | 7

    
 

WeL Today

 

that the University once assumed.

Another area of concern which is important to all
students, not just student government, is the drug
situation at Washington and Lee. There are drugs at
Washington and Lee. In fact, there are a lot of them.
I would hazard a guess that approximately 75 per cent
of the students have tried marijuana—and I emphasize
tried. ‘This is a dramatic increase over the percentages
of four years ago when I was a freshman. The number
of regular users is probably one-fifth of this, at the most,
but the University has realized that there is a problem
of sorts.

Individuals who use speed, LSD, and the other more
powerful drugs are even smaller in number, probably
less than 15 per cent. Unfortunately, this is not the case
at many of our neighboring universities. Heroin and
other addictive drugs are not present on campus to my
knowledge, and I think I have a fairly good knowledge
of the situation.

In spite of the increased use of drugs by students—and
I distinguish the word use from abuse—the University
has changed its ideas and its policies on the drug situa-
tion. A previous policy on drugs written in 1967 was
disciplinary in nature. It centered around that one con-
cern. A new statement written last May explains the new
position of the University. ‘The University believes that
it has a three-fold responsibility to the drug user. One
is a program of education. McCormick Library and the
Student Center Library have extensive sets of literature
on drugs—the most current to be found. ‘The purpose
of having this literature in these places is obviously to
help individuals who are interested in drugs or who are
involved in them become aware of what they are getting
into.

In addition, last year the University began making
strong attempts to hire the services of a full-time clinical
psychologist. Several individuals were interviewed last
year, and job offers were made, but unfortunately none
were taken. In the past six weeks, four individuals have
been on the campus and interviewed for the position,
and I can assure you that by next September, at the
latest, there will be a full-time clinical psychologist on
the campus, not just to deal with the drug situation
or the problems individuals have with drugs, but with

2

 

Student body president Steve Robinson

 

 

 

al committees giving s students an even n greater aa
hington and Lee. _

  
    
    
 
  
   

bright, and Was!
with the ability and stature ‘of E
Huntley. I think the University, u a
and with the assist Ah

 

 

to have a

 

   

and the men who follow i in their footsteps a
| ne the: fate of the — =
nking about this fact, 1 feel |

) ington and Lee is secure.

 
   
 

  

   

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_—__IV———

| AS:

ee &

 

 

 

Robert Trimble

Washington and Lee for one year, taking as was common
in those days the junior and the senior courses at the
same time.

In addition, the records show that Washington and
Lee has conferred honorary degrees upon five members
of the Supreme Court.

Lewis F. Powell, Jr., did his undergraduate work at
Washington and Lee for the B. S. degree and graduated
from the Washington and Lee law school in 1931. He
spent an additional year at Harvard for the Master of
Laws degree.

Thomas Todd was born in King and Queen County,
Va., on Jan. 23, 1765. His father, Richard Todd, died
when ‘Thomas was 18 months old. In 1781, when he was

January, 1972

 

Bettmann Archive

 

Lucius Q. C. Lamar

16 years old, he served for six months in the American
army. He graduated from Liberty Hall Academy (now
Washington and Lee University) in 1783. He went to
Bedford, Va., to live with the family of Harry Innes, a
distinguished lawyer and member of the Virginia legis-
lature. In return for room, board, and instruction in the
law he tutored the Innes children. In 1784, Innes re-
ceived a commission to establish a district court in the
Kentucky area. He moved his family, including Todd, to
Danville, Ky. Todd served as secretary-clerk of the 1784
Danville convention and succeeding conventions which
were seeking to erect Kentucky into a separate state.

In 1788, Todd was admitted to the Virginia bar and
began a successful law practice, specializing in land titles.

5

Bettmann Archive

WeL and the Supreme Court

 

J. Rucker Lamar

In 1801, he was appointed to the Kentucky Court of
Appeals and later Chief Justice of the Kentucky Court.
He gained a reputation for fairness in adjusting land
titles, a matter of great concern to land owners at that
time.

In 1807, President Jefferson appointed Thomas Todd
to membership on the Supreme Court of the United
States. He served on the court for 19 years, until his
death in 1826. He was a loyal supporter of Chief Justice
John Marshall in his zeal to create a strong Federal Court
and a strong national government.

Robert Trimble was born Nov. 17, 1776, in Berkeley
County, Va., (now a part of West Virginia). His family
moved to Kentucky in 1778. He attended Washington

6

 

Brown Brothers

James F. Byrnes

Academy (now Washington and Lee University) 1789-
1800. He read law under Professor George Nicholas at
Translyvania University and James Brown, later minister
to France. About 1801, he began the practice of law in
Paris, Ky. He served as a member of the Kentucky
Legislature, the Supreme Court of Kentucky, and the
United States District Court.

In 1826, President John Quincy Adams appointed
Robert Trimble to fill the vacancy on the Supreme Court
of the United States created by the death of Thomas
Todd. Trimble served only a little more than two years
before his untimely death, Aug. 25, 1828. ‘Trimble was in
agreement with Chief Justice Marshall in almost all of
the decisions rendered during his tenure on the high

WeL

 

Wide World

ae

s

Se
rn
0 —_

=

:
tee
a
7

—
oe

aa

ned
arn
oes

Dare

 

 

by Chester Goolrick

Marshall Research Library:
W&L’s cooperative neighbor

Chester Goolrick is an assistant professor of history
at VMI, a free-lance writer, and a frequent contributor
to Marshall Library periodicals.

Though at first glance the austere George C. Marshall
Research Library in Lexington would appear to be
solidly wedded to VMI—it faces the Institute’s parade
ground, its architecture conforms to VMI’s, and there is
the indisputable fact that General Marshall was a VMI
eraduate—the Library’s ties with Washington and Lee
are strong and growing with each passing year. There is,
in fact, every reason to believe that the Library, which
houses the personal papers of the World War II U.S.
Army chief of staff and post-war Secretary of State as
well as an impressive collection of historic data, will be
of great value to W&L students and professors doing
research in the future. As far as that goes, since the
Library’s facilities were opened on a limited basis last
year, a number of students from Washington and Lee
have used it to gather material for papers they were
preparing for history classes.

The Library’s value as an additional aid to learning
in Lexington is not by any means the only link between
it and W&L; it is indeed not too much to say that W&L
has played a part in its growth from the day the Marshall
Research Foundation was incorporated nearly 20 years

 

ago. The late Dr. Francis P. Gaines, then president of
W&L, was a charter member and incorporator of its
board of directors and from the beginning took a special
interest in its affairs. So, too, did Dr. Fred C. Cole during
his years as president of W&L. Dr. Cole is now a mem-
ber of the Foundation’s board of directors, while the
current president, Robert E. R. Huntley, is an ex officio
member of the board like his predecessors. Last spring
he was named a member of the Foundation’s executive
committee.

On another level, the Library has been a boon to
students and their wives who have found employment
as Museum custodians, typists, cataloguers, and research-
ers. The Library itself benefits not only from their special
skills, but the students produce the necessary scholarly
atmosphere. The dozen or so pretty wives brighten the
place up.

Support of the Library, a non-profit institution not
connected directly with the State of Virginia, has come
in a variety of ways from W&L alumni and faculty
members. Numerous financial contributions have been
received from alumni during fund-raising campaigns over
the past decade to build, equip, and operate the Library
as the only national memorial thus far to General
Marshall. But gifts—testimonials in themselves of a desire
to see the Library succeed—have taken other forms than

 

WeL

See

—

 

money. Only recently, Col. Francis Pickens Miller, a
graduate of W&L in the Class of 1914 and a long-time
prominent figure in Virginia politics, gave a collection
of papers, books, uniforms, and personal items covering
his military experiences in Europe in both world wars.
Other W&L alumni and faculty members have given
or lent a diversity of items such as recruiting posters,
maps, diaries, and other personal memorabilia which
either enhance the Library’s historical collection or can
be used for special museum displays.

W&L professors have likewise been generous in assist-
ing the Library’s program in numerous ways. Dr. William
A. Jenks, chairman of W&L’s history department, re-
cently contributed an article to the Library’s quarterly
Newsletter, in which he assessed historic development in
higher education and changes which have been brought
about by the new emphasis on independent studies dur-
ing the shortened terms.

“The new look in undergraduate education,” Dr.
Jenks wrote, “gives our maturing young people a very
special opportunity to acquaint themselves with the first-
hand evidence of the past and to re-create in their own
language what the records tell them. In this process the
material aid bestowed upon our special research libraries,
such as the Marshall Library, by thoughtful donors in
addition to the taxes apportioned our federal and state
archives will be returned a thousand fold.”

Also, in 1967, at annual Law Day ceremonies spon-
sored by the Virginia Law Association and held at the
Library, former W&L law school dean Charles P. Light
was the principal speaker. Dean Light told 45 applicants
being accorded U.S. citizenship of General Marshall's
role in the Marshall Library and of the importance of
the Library as a historical repository.

Marshall Foundation officials feel that this budding
relationship between W&L and the Library represents
only a modest beginning. As Dr. Jenks indicated in his
article, the role of research institutions in higher educa-
tion is of comparatively recent origin. As the years pass,
it seems inevitable that more and more W&L professors
and students will avail themselves of the rich resources
of a historical treasure trove which few colleges are
fortunate enough to have within what is almost literally
a stone’s throw of their campuses.

January, 1972

 

Col. Francis Pickens Miller (above), a contributor of valuable
papers to the Marshall Library, chats with law wife Mrs. Diane
Elliot, while Mrs. Nan Pascal (below), another law wife who works at
the Library, speaks with Lt. Gen. Marshall S. Carter (left), president
of the George C. Marshall Research Foundation, and Dr.

Forrest C. Pogue, executive director of the Marshall Foundation.

9

Campus News

 

Curriculum expansion includes Chinese,
term in Africa, ecological economics

A new course in Chinese, a_study-
abroad program in African culture and
politics, new courses in the economics of
resource conservation and ecology, and an
entirely new selection of courses in an-
thropology and archaeology have been
approved by the faculty.

The course in Chinese will be a two-
term introduction to modern Mandarin,
stressing the spoken language but gradu-
ally including the written language
through use of colloquial texts. The
course, which will carry six academic
credits is to be taught by Dr. Harold Hill,
assistant professor in the German depart-
ment. The course will first be offered
next fall. Hill reads and speaks fluent
Russian and Ukranian, as well as Ger-
man and Chinese.

The new study-abroad course, offered
by the politics department, will include
lectures from African authorities in a
wide range of fields, including economics,
culture, and political structures and pro-
cesses. A short orientation period on
campus will precede the students’ and
instructor’s departure for Africa. The
course will be offered during the spring
term, beginning next April, and will be
taught by James Loesel, instructor in
politics whose field of specialization is
comparative African political science. Stu-
dents at Washington and Lee have been
able to study under similar supervised
programs in Europe since the University
instituted the spring term last year, and
by arrangement with other colleges before
that. The African course, however, is be-
lieved to be one of the first outside
Europe on an undergraduate level in the
region.

The new offerings in ecological eco-
nomics will include a survey course treat-
ing the problem on national and global

10

scales, with an examination of human and
cultural influences which indicate the need
for a systematic approach to conservation.
A second course will provide students
the opportunity to undertake individual
study under the direction of a professor
as well as group research on timely pro-
jects, emphasizing historical, descriptive,
and analytical approaches. The second
course will be taught in the six-week
spring term, which was designed to permit
Washington and Lee students to study
full-time in a single field. “oth courses
in the economics of ecology are to be
taught by Dr. S. Todd Lowry, associate
professor of economics, beginning in the
next academic year.

The new anthropology courses will in-
clude offerings in general cultural and
physical anthropology, contemporary di-
rections in the field, Latin American cul-
tures, techniques and methodology, and
archaeology. They, too, will be offered
beginning in the 1972-73 year.

Washington and Lee’s faculty has also
approved a number of other course
changes and additions, including new
courses in drama, Italian, comparative
literature, and philosophy, and revisions
and expansions in art, Classics, geology,
politics, and administration.

 

On-the-Spot News Center

 

Complete facilities to provide Virginia
radio stations with on-the-spot audio news
coverage has been established at Wash-
ington and Lee by the Associated Press.
The exchange service permits AP mem-
ber stations to share the audio portion
of actual news taking place—exclusive
interviews, speeches, news conferences
and, other news which is recorded ‘at the

scene”—with every other participating AP

station by a simple telephone call to
Washington and Lee.

The new AP service, known as an
“actuality exchange” and called “The
Sound of Virginia,” began officially on
Jan. 4. The operation allows Virginia sta-
tions to broadcast tapes of actual news
events which is impossible for every sta-
tion in the state to cover on its own.
Until now, if a station was unable to be
at the scene of the news itself, it had to
rely on merely reading second-hand writ-
ten accounts transmitted on the AP tele-
type. In a few cases, stations made their
own impromptu arangements with other
individual stations to share an “actuality,”
but no single station has ever been able
to provide such a service to all the other
AP radio broadcasters in Virginia.

The Associated Press is a cooperative
news service, with every member required
to notify other members—via teletype or
by the telephone to a central AP office—
of significant news in the immediate area.
With AP members located in virtually
every area of the state, blanket coverage
of the news is assured.

Participating members in the new
‘actuality exchange” are expected to
operate in a similar manner, by telephon-
ing the Washington and Lee center where
sophisticated equipment will be ready 24
hours a day to record the “‘actuality.”” The
‘‘actualities” will then be made available
to every other participating station, which
itself can tape the Washington and Lee
simply by

recording the

telephoning
service.

The Associated Press purchased and in-
stalled all the equipment required for
the service. Space was made available by
Washington and Lee in Reid Hall, home
of the journalism and communications

department and WLUR-FM, the Univer-
WeL

 

-_——-—

 

 

New Associated Press actuality center, located in Reid Hall, will provide Virginia
radio stations with a central storing house of pre-recorded news.

sity radio station, already an AP member.

Associated Press officers said Washing-
ton and Lee was selected as “home” for
the new actuality exchange because its
journalism department maintains Vir-
ginia’s only accredited journalism pro-
gram and because it is centrally located
in the state.

Journalism Prof. Ronald H. Mac-
Donald, a veteran himself of almost 20
years in broadcasting before joining the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1969, is
serving as supervisor for the service.
MacDonald has long been active in the
Virginia Associated Press Broadcasters
Association.

The AP is employing 25 Washington
and Lee students, about 15 of them
journalism students, all with a demon-
strated capability and interest in broad-
cast journalism. The students carry out

January, 1972

technical operations connected with the
actuality exchange, including preparation
several times every day of capsule de-
scriptions of the “actualities” available,
so the AP may advise its membership via
the conventional teletype of audio ma-
terial available by telephone from the
\V'ashington and Lee center.

 

Convention Preliminaries

 

William Thomas, chairman of the Vir-
ginia State Democratic Committee, spoke
at Washington and Lee on Dec. 1 in
another of a series of visits by notable
political leaders, sponsored by the W&L
1972 Mock Convention.

Thomas, at 32, one of the youngest
state party chairmen in the country, said
that Sen. Edmund S. Muskie of Maine
is expected to receive some support from

the Virginia delegation to the Democratic
Convention at Miami Beach. But he
warned the students that it will be more
difficult in 1972 to determine how delega-
tions will vote because of new party
rules that require state delegations to
reflect the proportion of women and
blacks residing in the state.

The W&L Mock Convention, which is
held every four years for the party out
of Presidential power, will be staged May
5-6. The student delegates will try to
predict what their actual counterparts
will do at Miami Beach. Over the years,
the Washington and Lee event has had
a remarkable record for accuracy.

 

WeL’s Loyal Parents

 

Parents of students continue to be
among the most loyal supporters of the
University. On the weekend of Nov. 5-6,
nearly 1,300 parents and guests were
present on campus for the 17th annual
Parents’ Weekend. This was the largest
attendance in several years.

The parents participated in small-group
sessions with students, faculty members,
and administrators, and heard a report
on the current state of the University
and its future from President Huntley
and Stephen W. Robinson of Alexandria,
president of the student government. The
program also included a meeting of the
Parents’ Council, headed by Dr. Albert
Preston of Kansas City, Mo. His son,
Albert Preston, III, is a senior at the
University.

President Huntley thanked the parents
for their understanding and interest and
assured them that Washington and Lee
is devoting all of its resources to pro-
viding their sons with the best education
possible. Robinson discussed the aspects

11

Campus News

 

of student life at Washington and Lee,
emphasizing that the Honor System con-
tinues to be a strong and vital influence
on campus.

Last fiscal year the Parents’ Fund estab-
lished a record for gifts made to close
the gap between income and expenses
in the University’s educational and gen-
eral budget. The fund produced $61,502
in 1970-71 compared with $59,901 in
1969-70. As of Nov. 30 this year, parents
had given $21,128 compared with $9,884
for the same period last year and $5,216
for the same period two years ago.

 

Ral Land Purchased

Washington and Lee University has
purchased 8.78 acres of land from the
Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Co., in-
cluding the C&O’s right-of-way through
the University campus, its trestle across
U.S. Route 60, and the property across
Route 60 on which the long-unused C&O
station is located. ‘The University paid
$31,500 for the property.

Most of the property—the 5.48-acre
right-of-way across the Washington and

 

Lee campus—extends from the boundary
with Virginia Military Institute on the
north to Route 60 on the south. The
CxO abandoned its service from Buena
Vista to Lexington following the flood
of August, 1969, which destroyed much of
the track and a trestle over the Maury
River.

The smaller portion of the land in-
volved in the sale consists of approxi-
mately three acres across and to the south
of Route 60, including the overpass, sta-
tion, and land around and near the
station.

Washington and Lee’s only immediate
plans for the land south of Route 60 are

12

to use it as additional parking.

The right-of-way on the north side of
Route 60 will be used as a road to
storage and maintenance facilities and the
University’s central heating plant. Presi-
dent Huntley said the University is aware
of the interest of the Historic Lexington
Foundation in restoring and preserving
the Lexington station, and he said Wash-
ington and Lee intends to make every
effort to accommodate that interest with
the University’s own requirements.

Although the C&O had owned the land,
certain portions of it—to the east of the
train station—are used as public streets,
providing a convenient connection be-
tween Route 60 and the Old Colliers-
town Road and also offering access to the

Huger-Davidson Sale Co., Inc. warehouse
on McLaughlin Street. President Huntley
said Washington and Lee hopes to as-
similate these patterns of use with the
University’s own purposes as well.

 

Gift of Boxwoods

 

The University has received a gift of
more than 30 large, stately, and valuable
English boxwoods. The plants were given
by Wilmer S. Poyner of Birmingham, Ala.,
father of Dr. John S. Poyner, also of Birm-
ingham, a 1962 graduate of Washington
and Lee.

The boxwoods have been planted in
rows and in groups near the dormitories.
One row extends along the parking lot

 

English boxwoods are planted in courtyard of Davis, Baker, and Freshman dormitories.

WeL

 

 

 
 

Poyner purcha sed tl he boxwoods
Wytheville. The Unive ersity had on
arrange for shipping them to Lex
acquiring the magnificent plants” o1
_ small a of their vate a

 

 

Gil Honors Baremore_
_ The family of’ Tommy )

 

a Washington aut Lee student sitio? died

 

has” contributed “$10,000 to a - scholarship

 

fund honoring his
versity. |

March 17, 1968 i
Goshen Pass,

 

northwest of

 

me qualify ¢ the we ogee Lee du
‘debate team for the National Invi itional - iz a

 
 
 

Debate > Tournament.

 

nr was an act as

  
 
 

| Lawrence E. Ev jr of Pasddena, Tex.,

a junior who is an outstanding debater,

January, 1972

  

eee

memory at the va

- Baremore, a native L of ‘Sheveport, rt, La,
was an outstanding © debater a at oe

demic ae q 7. >7T
debate, Bare- -

 

 

 
   
    
  
 

and. who demonstrate substantial promise :
of distinction. og shah = |

 

| Kappa, the rational’ I fraternity for meus

leaders founded in 1914 at the University. |
‘He was a member of Tau Kappa Alpha, —
the debaters’ society; the student Assimila-
_ tion ¢ “om nittee; the ae ronbadl ur Theatr

 

   

erved as s president 0 of his ete ee

 

 

‘Dr. Pusey is ees open to eve
rman at Washington eight and —

 
 

dl oe = — man nan of the Germ

. is and m 1em ember 0 r of I Pi i Kappa
Phi, Baremore' Ss. Geemie ae
one: fund was_ established sont after

 

Pusey has long been a baseball enthusiast, |

 

articles on the sport. (On his retirement

as dean, W&L’s trustees formally noted
his: devotion to
voting him a spe
Glove” trophy.)

 
 

the American pastime

 

by

 

His election to the Twins’ b boa ard ny ;
to six the number of Washington a and

 

 

~ Lee men on “ 24-member board—D

   

y; Lea Booth, former public. ‘rela :

tions director at the University and cur-
rently executive director of the ‘Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges, a
1940 graduate; Joseph C. Knakal, ‘Lynch- a

 
  

 

burg attorney and general counsel for

 

 
 
 
     
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   

- Twins, a 1957 BA. and 1959 LL.B.

 

 

es than 200 ne aph recor
= mor ee ridge Cou

a Eric ‘Eskildson, j its cpa who said a i
oS tior ully

 

ft er | nalism and communications | dep

“,

is on the air seven days a week during

   

 

ecial, Benuines “Golden a

  
 
  
   
      

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lacrosse coaches tag Szlasa

tops in the college division

Dick Szlasa has been named college
division lacrosse “‘Coach-of-the-Year.”

In balloting conducted by the United
States Lacrosse Coaches Association, which
includes a membership of 300, Szlasa was
voted the Babe Krause Award, symbolic
of the honor, which was presented to him
at the annual convention of the United
States Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association
in Atlantic City in December. It makes
the first time in the Generals’ long and
colorful athletic history that an award of
such national significance has been given
to a W&L coach.

Szlasa, a former All-America defenseman
at the University of Maryland, in four
years has brought about a dramatic shift
in lacrosse fortunes on the Washington
and Lee campus. Taking over in 1968,
his teams suffered through lean records
of 2-8 and 1-8 during his first two seasons.
In 1970, he produced an 8-3 record, the
best mark the Generals had managed
since the sport was adopted as part of
W&L’s intercollegiate athletic program.

Then, last spring, with a team that
included what many experts described as
the best freshman talent in the country,
Szlasa guided the Generals to an 11-2
showing as W&L won the co-championship
of the South Atlantic Division, was named
the top small college team in the United
States, and finished seventh in the Roth-
stein poll and ninth in the USILA poll,
both of which include major and small
colleges. —The Generals won five Little
All-America spots and placed a like num-
ber on the all-division squad. It was by
far the greatest W&L team accomplish-
ment in recent times.

In developing the Generals into a na-
tional power, Szlasa spent long hours on
forays to Baltimore, Philadelphia, Long
Island, and New Jersey in search of the

January, 1972

best high school and prep school players
he could find. He has proven to be an
outstanding recruiter, so say members of
W&L’s admissions office, because of his
enthusiasm for the University’s educa-
tional opportunities and his easy-going,
students,
alumni, and high school administrators.

Success is

natural style with parents,
second-nature to
him. When he was at Maryland, he was
named to play in the North-South game,
selected to the Maryland state collegiate
all-star team, and picked to receive the
first Silber-Deckman Trophy as the Uni-
versity of Maryland’s most improved de-

fenseman.,

almost

Following graduation, he began teach-
ing in the Baltimore County public school
system, first at Parkville High School,
where, during a three-year tenure, he

started a lacrosse program. After being
recalled to military duty for a year, he
became director of athletics and lacrosse
coach at Perry Hall High School, where
his team was division champions. Dur-
ing the summers, he played defense for
the University Club, which won the na-
tional open championship in 1963. In
1967, he was appointed lacrosse coach at
Towson State College, and immediately
produced a 6-3 record, the best mark
the school had ever experienced. A year
later, he accepted the W&L position.

In accepting the “Coach-of-the-Year’’
honor in Atlantic City, Szlasa said the
recognition properly belonged to all of
Washington and Lee and that it reflected
a spirit of hard work and determination
that was characteristic of the Generals

last spring.

 

Athletics

 

3,000 see Generals and Cavaliers
inaugurate new basketball arena

At the Christmas break, Washington
and Lee’s basketball Generals were ex-
periencing some unaccustomed difficulties,
compiling a 3-2 record when usually at the
time W&L is undefeated or at the worst
only one game down in the loss column.
The trouble seemed to be a lack of out-
side shooting and floor leadership coupled
with, perhaps, an unfamiliarity with the
running game Coach Verne Canfield has

installed this winter.

Promising to open things up with more
fast breaks and a pressing defense, Can-
field let it be known that the Generals
were going to have a different look this

 

(

Cy Young,
Generals’ basketball captain Mike Daniel.

16

who won 16 letters at Washington and Lee, throws

season. That, along with the opening of
the basketball arena in the new expanded
area of Doremus Gymnasium, brought out
over 3,000 spectators for W&L’s inaugural
game on Dec. | against the University of
Virginia.

Among the visiting dignitaries on hand
that night were Richard A. (Cap'n Dick)
Smith; H. K. (Cy) Young, who threw out
the first ball to team captain Mike Daniel;
and Edgar F. Shannon, Jr., president of
the University of Virginia. Hosting the
pre-game ceremony was President Hunt-
ley, who also introduced new W&L ath-
letic director Bill McHenry.

out first ball to

las

Cavaliers’ Lanny Stahurski and WeL’s
Skip Lichtfuss battle for rebound.

WeL

 

 

Unfortunately, the merriment soon end-
ed. Within minutes after the Generals
had jumped into a 4-2 lead, Virginia, with
guard Barry Parkhill taking command,
roared back to go out in front 19-5 when
W&L could not hit from the floor. The
halftime score was 47-32 in favor of the
Cavaliers, who stretched the lead even
further before coach Bill Gibson took out
the regulars. The final score was 113-80.
For Canfield, it was a tough loss because
he had said earlier how eager the Gen-
erals were for a chance to atone for last
year’s loss at Charlottesville.

Washington and Lee then hosted its
own tournament, and the Generals de-
feated Lycoming, 107-83, but lost to
Drexel, 86-72, in the championship game.
Again, the loss was tough for Canfield,
since in the two previous W&L Invita-
tionals the Generals had won handily.

Washington and Lee won its next two
games, 85-75 over Lynchburg and 82-71
over Hampden-Sydney, to get back over
the .500 mark before heading into exams
and the Christmas break.

As the Generals returned trom vaca-
tion, the going didn’t appear to be any
easier. In successive nights, W&L had to
meet an improved Navy team and then
Lehigh, with the remainder of the sche-
dule perhaps just as challenging: Jan. 10
at Bridgewater, Jan. 14 at Guilford, Jan.
19 at Emory and Henry, Jan. 22 Florida
Presbyterian, Jan. 25 Johns Hopkins, Jan.
28 Rhode Island, Jan. 29 at Baltimore
Loyola, Jan. 31 Bridgewater, Feb. 2 at
Hampden-Sydney, Feb. 5 Emory and
Henry, Feb. 7 Lynchburg, Feb. 9 at Ran-
dolph-Macon, Feb. 12 York, Feb. 17 at
Dickinson, Feb. 19 Davis and Elkins, Feb.
21 at Belmont-Abbey, and Feb. 25-26 Col-
lege Athletic Conference Tournament in
Lexington.

January, 1972

 

 

 

 

Cap’n Dick Smith and Cy Young awaiting turns to be introduced.

17

Athletics

After warding off early troubles,
W&L turns football season around

Even to Buck Leslie, the. Washington
and Lee football season had to be some-
thing of a mystery. At the very beginning,
he said publicly that the Generals were
going to be underdogs in every game they
played, which led most followers to be-
lieve the absence of end Steve Ma-
haffey, who led the nation’s pass receivers
last year, was more than just the routine
graduation loss. It was more like out-
right disaster.

And through the first four games, W&L
succeeded in turning Leslie’s pre-season
anxiety into a very real problem. Though
not outclassed, the Generals failed to
make the big play in losing to ‘Towson,
10-7; Centre, 17-7; Hampden-Sydney, 16-3;
and Bucknell, 27-0.

“We played well in those games,” Leslie
said, “and we had chances to win a
couple of them. Remember, we were a
young ball club at that time of the season.
We had to rebuild our offensive line
with freshmen and sophomores, and then
we had to find receivers to take Mahaffey’s
place, and also Bruce Green’s spot at
flanker. Green was more important to
us than most people realized,” Leslie
added.

“And as I said before, our schedule
this year was the toughest, in my opinion,
we've had since we began playing under
the non-subsidized program. Our boys
were up against some rugged outfits.”

The Bucknell game proved to be a
welcome turning point. Outweighed by
as much as 40 pounds a man in some
interior positions, W&L turned out to
be far less a patsy than many sports-
writers and other sorts prophesized. Per-
haps stunned by early line predictions of
a massacre, the Generals allowed Bucknell
20 quick first half points. Then, W&L
snapped out of its trance, realized it

18

could stay with the Bisons, and played
them close to even during the second
half.

“Looking back, I think that was the
time everything turned around for us,
particularly during the third and fourth
quarters,” Leslie said. ‘Although we lost,
our team found out it could play in a
tougher league.”

The Generals went on to take four
of their last five games, winning over
Western Maryland, 14-7, Sewanee, 21-14,
Coast Guard, 28-7, and Washington (Mo.),
38-6. The only loss was to Southwestern,
35-25, in a free-scoring game that featured
a 79-yard punt return for a touchdown by
W&L safety Dave Brooks. He returned
another punt 64 yards, but was caught
just short of the goal line.

Among the highlights of the year was
the victory over Coast Guard, which
knocked the Cadets out of contention

for a bid to the Knute Rockne Bowl
against Hampden-Sydney. Entering the
game against W&L, the Academy had
posted an 8-1 record with an explosive
offense and a tenacious defense. But the
Generals enjoyed their best day of the
year in amassing 445 total yards and 24
first downs. “I must say that it was one
of the finest wins ever for a Washington
and Lee team under our present athletic
program,” Leslie commented at the end
of the season.

With just nine players graduating,
Leslie is looking forward to prosperous
times next season. Returning will be
quarterback Steve Fluharty, who passed
for 940 yards and seven touchdowns this
fall; end Chappy Conrad, who caught
47 passes and punted for a 40.6-yard aver-
age; linebacker Tim Haley, credited with
66 individual tackles and 19 assists; and
running backs Jim Farrar, Lat Purser,

 

and punting, takes in a pass against bowl-bound Hampden-Sydney . . .

WeL

 

rn a
Oo oe a
7 a

 

 

sD

 

 

a - -
oe

: -
ee ee

 

 

—
—_

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Wisnaren? AND ee

ALUMNI, INc.

— Virginia 24450

 

 

Scena

of the National
ont, received the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7
-

"BIRTH: Mr.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ments at Centenary College, National Col-
lege of Kansas City, Mo., and Adrian Col-
lege of Adrian, Mich. before joining the
faculty at Manchester College. While at
W&L, Schuhle was a Southern Conference
champion hurdler and track star. In the
recent past, Schuhle was a free-lance car-
toonist, and one of his works received first
place for editorial cartoons in Maryland and
Delaware by the D.C. Press Association’s
1970 Better Newspaper Contest.

1937

JoHN H. BosMAN, former mayor of Branch-
burg Township in Somerset County, N.J.
and one-time Passaic resident, died Oct. 2 in
Hollywood, Fla. He was an Air Force vet-
eran of World War II. After the war,
Bosman operated a lumber mill in New
Jersey and was later a salesman for the Air
Reduction Co.

WILLIAM FRANCIS ROTHERT, former manager
with the Marlo W. E. Tire Co. of Rich-
mon, Va., died Nov. 10.

1944

EDWARD CLIFTON WADDINGTON, JR., former
district manager for the F. A. Bartlett Tree
Exprert Co., died Oct. 23. He was a resident
of West Grove, Pa.

1948

JAMeEs F. Kay, former owner of the Waynes-
boro Paint Store in Waynesboro, Va., died
Oct. 17. In 1963, Kay served as state chair-
man for the National Retail Freedom Bond
Campaign.

197]

RoBERT E. MUNSON, JR., died of leukemia at
his home in Hagerstown, Md., on Dec. 14,
four days before he was to graduate from
Washington and Lee. He was the organizer
of the Lexington Boys’ Club and was named
its first full-time director in 1969. At the
time of his death, he was on leave from
his Boys’ Club duties in order to complete
work on his B.A. degree in politics at W&L.
He was a son of the late Robert E. Munson,
Sr., and Mrs. Ruth Munson. He devoted
much of his time in Lexington to helping
the underprivileged and was foster father
to two Lexington boys. One of his professors
said of him: ‘He was a sincere, hard-work-
ing, selfless individual, dedicated wholly to
serving others.”

24

 

WeL

=

 

GE

THE RISE AND GROWTH
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

by Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, Professor of History
Published by Random House, New York

Price: $10.00

JERAL LE€’S COLLEGE

 

——-—

GENERAL FE
ae mall @
OU
COLLEGE
The Rise and Growth of
Washington and Lee
University

OLLINGER

CRENSHAW.

So

 

 

This book may have come as a bless-
ing to revive the great spirit of
Washington and Lee. There has never
been more to be proud of on the Lex-
ington campus—the book makes this
clear.

—Charleston News and Courier

The account is concise, yet rich in de-
tail, with frequent touches of subtle
humor. The excellence of this
volume fully justifies the enthusiasm
with which it has already been received.

—Lexington News-Gazette

A pleasing, witty style and excellent use
of quotations enliven the book; descrip-

tions of student activities and vignettes

of important persons are particularly
interesting.
—The Journal of Southern History

The history of the college is intricately
related to the history of the country
itself, its prosperity, wars, depressions,
changes in attitudes and in manners.
Consequently, General Lee’s College isa
volume that will interest both friends
of the college and those readers who are
interested in Southern and American
history.

—Richmond Times-Dispatch

Alumni of Washington and Lee will
appreciate General Lee’s College most.
It will give pleasure and furnish impor-
tant insights to all who appreciate the
heritage of our state, region, and nation
as well as the essential role of higher
education in our efforts to cope with this
time of turmoil.

—Roanoke Times

 

This book has deep meaning
for everyone who has shared the
Washington and Lee experience.

For all, it is an important

record of the development of one

of the nation’s great institutions.

Be sure to obtain a first edition copy.

Fill in and mail the attached

order form today.

THE BOOKSTORE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me

copy(ies) of General Lee’s College by Dr. Ollinger

Crenshaw, at $10.00 each. (Include 75 cents handling charges for each copy

purchased. )

 

Name

 

Address

Payment of $

 

is enclosed.

Zip Code

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

available again

— ‘YW
< ¢3 es a }

> sega Abu
f ee Lg 4 f

    
  
   

gp

a

Po ee “et

ss x
>. LaF

 
  
    

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes

Price, $39.00 per set of eight,
including shipping charges
Available in blue color only

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

Lexington, Virginia 24450

