 

alumni magazine of washington and lee university SEPTEMBER 1971

a1 K (5. |
UW) B17 Okt
sure ®

 

 

 

CF

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 46, Number 4, September, 1971

William C. Washburn 40 0.00.00... ceeeeees Editor
Romulus ‘IT. Weatherman ............... lea Managing Editor
A. Michael Philipps ’64........0..0..0.0...8. Associate Editor

and Photographer

Mrs. Joyce Carter............0.00cc ces Editorial Assistant

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Interview with James Bierer.........0000000.0.e ]
A $100,000 Challenge... ee 2
First Scharnberg Scholars..............0..0.00:c eee 3
Campus NeWS.......0.0.0.0.ccc ccc ee etre eee eeeeee 3
Arts Workshop ..0..00..00..00.0: ccc teeters 10
Athletics 20.00. ett treet 13
CO) ETS (0) |< E 14
Tn Memoriam 20... cece ceeeeeeeeeetetteeeeeeees 20

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

RicHARD H. TurReELL, ’49, Short Hills, N.J.
President

A. CHRISTIAN Compton, ’50, Richmond, Va.
Vice President

T. Hat Cxiarke, 38, Washington, D.C.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
. Secretary

Upton Beat, 751, Tyler, Texas
RicHArD D. Haynes, 58, Dallas, ‘Texas
WILLIAM H. Hitter, ’38, Chicago, Il.

S. L. Kopa.p, Jr., 43, Memphis, ‘Tenn.

J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
J. Atvin Puitpott, 45, Lexington, N.C.
Emit C. RAssMAN, III, 41, Midland, Texas
BEAUREGARD A. REDMOND, 755, New Orleans, La.
EVERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.

On the cover: The young man seated in a Wash-
ington and Lee chair is completely absorbed in
what was for him a new artistic experience—learn-
ing to play the recorder, just one of the many art
forms taught at Lexington’s first Fine Arts Work-
shop held on the Washington and Lee campus in
July. Later the boy turned his attention to the
violin. For more about the workshop—and more
pictures—turn to Page 10.

 

 

A

<4

“”

 

 

at per-
ows all the rest. t. Any =
ston and Lee, if new henge

‘the Univer.
an awful

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

    
    

 

Gineone | Club—plus “several
ure, will characterize this

  

8

  

vi ile. signi
ing for cur perating expenses.
eae —, Club aa established by the |

nificantly i increasing g the | total of annual giv-

  

   

 

       

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

. Sanford Doughty, William C. Washburn, James H. Bierer, and Gerald E. Poudrier discuss 1971-72 Annual Giving Program.

Colonnade Club includes a separate listing in the
University’s report of Annual Giving; an invitation to
cocktails and luncheon with President and Mrs. Hunt-
ley during Homecoming; and complimentary admis-
sion to campus events. The greatest benefit of mem-
bership, however, is the satisfaction to be derived from
supporting one of the centers of excellence in higher
education.

The use of annual giving for support of current
operations is essential to meet that part of the Uni-
versity’s educational and general expense that exceeds
income from tuition and fees, endowment, and other
sources. This “operating gap” amounts to 14.2 per
cent or $762,120 in this year’s budget. ‘The designa-
tion of annual gifts for specific current purposes is
still possible, and an alumnus, parent, or friend may
earmark his gift for any current operating expense—
such as the library, faculty salaries, student financial
aid, or maintenance of physical plant.

Under the procedure of soliciting law graduates, all
gifts from law alumni will be used automatically for
support of current expenses in the School of Law, un-
less the donor requests otherwise. Therefore, every

September, 1971

 

 

law alumnus, whether he received his undergraduate
degree from Washington and Lee or from some other
school, will know that his gift will go to the School
of Law for current expenses.

The June 30, 1972, deadline for the payment of
gifts and pledges to the current Annual Fund was
adopted to eliminate confusion and bookkeeping prob-
lems. In the past, a person making a pledge to the
Annual Fund during the fiscal year (July 1 to June 30)
had the option of completing his payments at any
time during July 1-December 31 of the following fiscal
year. Thus many alumni were solicited for gifts in the
new fiscal year before they had completed payments
on pledge for the previous fiscal year.

Accordingly, this year and in future years all gifts
to the Annual Fund must be paid by June 30 if they
are to be included in the Report of Gifts for that year.
Payments received after June 30 will simply be cred-
ited to the ensuing Annual Fund, and the donor will
be solicited for that year just as if his gift had been
received before June 30. On the record, such donor’s
gift will be shown as the total of his two gifts during
the fiscal year in which they are made.

 

Campus News

 

Four students are awarded
Scharnberg scholarships

Four outstanding students, all mem-
bers of the Reserve Officer Training
Corps program on campus, have been
named as the first Scharnberg Scholars
under a new honor scholarship program
established this year at the University in
memory of the late Maj. Ronald Oliver
Scharnberg, a 1963 alumnus. They are
Kenneth M. Evans of Bartlesville, Okla.;
William H. Miller, III of Winter Park,
Fla.; Marc James Small of Novato, Calif.;
and Philip B. Willis of Huntsville, Ala.
Evans, Miller and Small are seniors; Willis
is a sophomore.

Scharnberg was killed last March 17
during a military aircraft reconnaissance
mission in South Vietnam. It was his third
voluntary tour of duty there.

The new financial aid program is
funded with a $250,000 gift from Scharn-
berg’s family and additional sums contri-
buted by friends and classmates. The
Scharnberg awards rank with the Robert
E. Lee Scholarships and the Basil Manly
Memorial Scholarships as the most pres-
tigious a Washington and Lee student can
receive. Freshman competition under the
three programs takes place each spring
during “Scholarship Weekend.” The up-
perclass awards are made by the Univer-
sity’s office of student financial aid.

Preference in awarding the Scharnberg
Scholarships is given to students who are
considering a career in the military serv-
ice or who have served in Vietnam or in
other international conflicts. The son of
Mrs. Lady Elizabeth Luker of Newport,
Ark. and Oliver H. Scharnberg of West-
wood, Mass., Scharnberg was 29 when his
helicopter was shot down. His widow, the
former Miss Marilyn Ellen Stevens of San
Francisco, now resides in Tacoma, Wash.
The Scharnbergs were married in 1968.

At Washington and Lee, where he

majored in English, Scharnberg was a
member of the White Friars and Mongo-
lian Minks in addition to the ROTC pro-
gram. He was commissioned a _ second
lieutenant upon his graduation from the
University in 1963.

In Vietnam, Scharnberg was a military

adviser to South Vietnamese forces and

 

 

RRS So ¥

Scholarship honors Maj. Scharnberg.

served as officer-in-charge of operations for
the Third Battalion, 187th Infantry of
the 101st Airborne Division. He was com-
missioned an officer in the Regular Army
in 1969, following completion of extensive
training in a number of advanced defense
programs. He was promoted to major in
1970.

Evans, a history major, is a Dean's
List student who is active in a wide range
of campus activities, including the Student
Library Committee, the Young Republi-
cans, Circle K, and the Interfraternity
Council.

Miller is an Honor Roll economics
major, and he serves as vice chairman of

the Young Americans for Freedom chap-
ter. He is a dormitory counselor, a mem-
ber of the staff of WLUR-FM, and plays
baseball for the Generals.

Small is majoring in classics and _ his-
tory. A Dean’s List student, he is a mem-
ber of the Young Republicans, the Young
Americans for Freedom, the University’s
debate team, and is past president of the
Political Science and International Rela-
tions Association.

Willis is an Honor Roll student and
last year as a freshman became a member
of Phi Eta Sigma. He participated in his
high school’s ROTC unit and was a mem-
ber of the National Honor Society. In his
sophomore year at Lee High School in
Huntsville, he was an exchange student
to Colombia.

 

Mock Convention Date Set

 

 

Students have set next May 5-6 for
their famous mock political convention,
when they try to predict who the Demo-
crats will nominate in Miami next sum-
mer to run against President Richard M.
Nixon. It will mark the 15th time a
Washington and Lee mock convention
has undertaken to come up with the real
nominee, in the most realistic, historically
accurate of the nation’s many mock col-
lege affairs.

Washington and Lee students have
been correct all but four times since the
beginning of their event in 1908, a better
record of political mood judging than
either the Democrats or Republicans
themselves have been able to manage.
The students—going with Nixon in 1968,
Goldwater in ’64, Kennedy in ’60, Steven-
son in ’56 and ’52—have not been wrong
since they picked Arthur Vandenburg in
1948, when Gov. Thomas Dewey was the

WeL

 

Mock Convention will go for six in a row next spring.

candidate to run against President Harry
‘Truman.

Festivities next May will begin with
the traditional parade through Lexington
to the convention center in Doremus
Gymnasium. There, a nationally promi-
nent Democrat, to be named later, will
deliver the keynote address in what is

hoped will be a fever-pitched style. As in

September, 1971

the past, the Washington and Lee mock
convention will hear several other polli-
ticians, and, if a tradition holds true, the
man the students choose as their nominee.

The mock convention is not a reflec-
tion of the student delegates’ own pre-
ference, but rather a serious attempt to
predict exactly what the Democrats will
do at their convention. Each of Washing-

ton and Lee’s 1,500 students will assume
a delegate’s role, and each state chairman
is committed to directing research and in-
vestigation into his state’s actual political
sentiments.

Co-chairman for the 1972 event will
be Mike Campilongo, a second-year law
student from San Diego, and Tom Gilles-
pie, a senior from Greensboro, N.C.

 

Scripps—Howard Grant

A $1,000 grant has been awarded to
Washington and Lee University by the
Scripps-Howard Foundation to further
the education of students in the broad
field of communications and who are

 

paying for part of their college education
themselves. The award—one of 38 to col-
leges throughout the nation—was made by
the foundation in the name of John H.
Sorrells, Jr., a 1945 graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee who is now promotions direc-
tor for the Memphis (Tenn.) Commercial-
Appeal.

 

Jarrard Gets NSF Grant

‘The National Science Foundation has

 

granted $20,000 to the psychology de-
partment to support new research into
motivation and behavior, in a project de-
signed by Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, pro-
fessor of psychology. Under Jarrard’s di-
rection, the Washington and Lee project
will focus on the relationship between the
hippocampus—a segment of the brain—
and motivation. Its results could have
major implications for scientists’ under-
standing of learning and other psychologi-
cal functions.

Jarrard’s continuing research into the
hippocampus has resulted in strong new
indications that it is intimately connected

5

Campus News

 

with motivation—for instance, hunger,
thirst and exploratory activity. His NSF-
sponsored research will continue to ex-
plore that theory, and in addition will
seek to determine the importance of the
hippocampus and motivation in_ both
learning and the actual performance of
tasks which have been learned. ‘The NSF
grant will support Jarrard’s research for
12 months during the next two academic
years.

Jarrard, 40, taught at Washington and
Lee from 1959, when he received the
Ph.D. degree from Carnegie-Mellon, until
1966. At Washington and Lee he conduct-
ed extensive research into the hippocam-
pus, and from 1960 until 1965 he directed
the National Science Foundation’s under-
graduate research program at the Univer-
sity. He will become head of the psycho-
logy department in 1972, when Dr. Wil-
liam H. Hinton, current head, reaches the
mandatory retirement age for department

chairmen.

 

Film on Traveller

 

A documentary film on Traveller’s two
great careers—first, as General Lee’s
horse in war and in peace, and _ sec-
ond, as one of the world’s most famous
skeletons—has been produced by the Uni-
versity’s department of journalism and
communications and will be broadcast on
a Roanoke television station this fall.

The 15-minute film is called Where’s
Traveller? and was produced over the
summer by Professor Ronald H. Mac-
Donald, the journalism department's elec-
tronic media expert and long-time TV
newsman. Assisting MacDonald technical-
ly under a Robert E. Lee Research Grant
was Chester F. Burgess, III, a journalism

major from Lexington.

6

Making the film involved considerable
amounts of research and investigation.
Traveller was one of the most widely
painted and photographed animals of his
day, and copies of many of those pictures
had to be collected for filming. Interviews
with men who knew of Traveller’s “‘sec-
ond career” were recorded. Myths and leg-
ends had to be sorted out and investi-
gated.

The documentary traces Traveller’s life
from his days as a colt named “Jeff Davis”
through his sale to Lee in 1862. (The film
follows the generally accepted account of
Traveller’s sale—that Major Thomas L.
Broun of West Virginia sold him to Lee
for $200 after the General refused to ac-

cept him as a gift. Still enduring, however,

is at least one family legend with different
particulars: that a Broadnax Maury of
Virginia sold Traveller to Lee for just $1,
prior to the Civil War.)

Traveller’s war days and the last tran-
quil years of his life in Lexington com-
plete the “first” career. His “second” be-
gan in 1907, when his remains were ex-
humed and put on display. Traveller’s
post-mortem career included a stint in the
University’s biology museum, where every
student for many years was obliged by
superstition to carve his initials on the
skeleton (with the behind-most bones
guaranteeing the very best luck). One
photograph in the movie shows Traveller's
skeleton next to that of a much smaller
animal, perhaps a goat—taken in the days

 

Film by Prof. MacDonald will show Traveller marker dedication ceremony.

“4

      
 

n students would tell visitors: “The

  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
   
   
    
   
    

 

 

 

   

 

7 aC a | - for seven years before |
- fe Mellon in 1966. <
yi

 

 

sity where she
"Dr. Charles w. Hickox, who received
| the Ph.D. degree in geology from Rice

September, 1971

   

 

; pone is. Traveller, and the smal -

aes and Lee's S

.

University last month, will: be assistant :

The appoint iene of oy and Hickox,
both for the 1971-72 3
serve to replace fey 2 aaa who
be on leave.

New instructors ‘will include Edward

professor of g

 

 

   

D. Craun and Phillip M. Keith, both’ _
nt; Scott B. Cum-

the English departme nt;
mings, sociology; J. David Lazor, geology;

Barry F. Machado, history; and William |

L. Sessions, philosophy. — a
_ Craun is a ‘Ph. D. candidate 4 at Prince:

| William } Buchanan in is or

7

“Dean ee of the Schoo! of Law

announced the Speman of, James
sor of law.

Bond to. be assistant | profe

 

ond is currently on | the faculty of

and Dr. Gerard M. Doyon, head of

- fessors.
cademic year only, :

geology jepeitnent: and | Joseph E Uhr

| Gity.

 

 

Sept. 1 Ll

 

 

 

 

art department. Both. were associate = -

   

Promoted from assistant to associate

  

of the University’ S School of Law.

  

 

 

 
    
   
 
  
 
 
 

  
  
  
    
   
   

Each year, w ashington and,

 

tion, He will also o
terviews. with prosp
will assist in the proce
plications for adn
will teach French in th

 

   

 

 

   
  
 

 
 

and of English and ican literature at
the American College for Girls in Ista
bul, Turkey, Mrs. | Kondayan holds the
B.A. and M.A, de in English from

 
  

 

ite < olnie ws term. Pate snajored i in n both
| French and Spanish. | |

  
    

 

  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

assistant. joined the staff of, the ‘Cyrus
Hall McCormick Library system in Sep-

 
 
   

ara Brown, currently associ-
cate reference pial at beni Univer.

 

 
   
 

 

iin and public services jie
‘She has been a member of Cor:

   
 

     

taught at. —— ~ ity an
_ University of Maryland.

   
 
  

 

 

 

join Washington and Lee’ 's staff with the
a of assistant Professor, | |

 

+e

quarterly student literary magazine Ariel.
Also elected were Donald H. Cartwright
and Thomas G. Keefe, business managers
for the newspaper and yearbook, respec-
tively.

Robinson, the new Ring-tum Phi ed-
tor, majors in both journalism and polli-
tics. He is from Atlanta. Marshall, editor-
elect of the Calyx, is from New Orleans
and majors in journalism and fine arts.
Lockhart, from Columbus, Ga., is an Eng-
lish major. Cartwright, an American his-
tory major, is from Decatur, Ga., and
Keefe, majoring in commerce, is from Mil-
ford, Conn. All five newly elected editors
and business managers will be seniors next
year.

 

New Award Presented

Landon Bell Lane of Altavista, a sen-
ior economics major, has been named to
receive the first Philip H. Milner Honor
Award by the Textile Veterans Associa-
tion of New York.

The new honor award at Washington
and Lee is to be presented to the rising

 

senior economics or business administra-
tion major who has the highest academic
average on all his work at the University.
Lane has achieved a 3.635 out of a pos-
sible 4.0.

A graduate of the Virginia Episcopal
School in Lynchburg, he is a member of
Washington and Lee’s yearbook staff and
of the Student War Memorial Scholar-
ship Fund Committee, in addition to
maintaining consistent Dean’s List and
Honor Roll academic status.

Mr. Milner, after whom the new award
is named, is executive vice president of
the Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. of
New York. Prominent in New York finan-
cial and civic affairs, he’s a 1936 alumnus.

September, 1971

 

In August workmen dismaniled the old power plant chimney which for years marred the
campus landscape. Elimination of the stack was made possible by the conversion

of the furnaces from coal to natural gas. The project was another step in maintaining

the beauty of the W&L campus.

Campus News

 

 

 

 

Photography by A. Michael Philipps

Wel

10

 

Fine Arts Workshop

 

For four weeks in July the Washington and Lee cam-
pus was the setting of Lexington’s first Fine Arts Workshop
for students in grades two through 12. The program allow-
ed the participants—68 in all—to taste the pleasure of cre-
ative activity and to test their talents in art, dance,
drama, and music. The sponsors were so pleased with the
interest and abilities shown by the students that they hope
to make the program a continuing one. The workshop was
organized and conducted by a group of art-minded Lexing-
ton citizens with the cooperation of W&L’s Departments
of Art and Music and Drama and the Lexington Chapter of
the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts. Many of the instructors
were W&L faculty members or their wives. The photos on
these pages offer a glimpse of the workshop’s activities.

September, 1971

 

1]

 

 

 

oe

 

 

 

 

a
ase

 

 

_ Midlothian,
12

:
:
’
: v

 

 

 

 

and Bill
Brumback of f Baldmore have received the

 

  
  
  

 
 

cent of the fe wadeneraduane s student | boc S pet
participated in 12, intercollegiate Sports

 
    
   
  

  
 

 

plete. Brumback also won ing
awards, one as named by y vote of the Varsity Club, was
-and the omhee Ernest (Skip) Lichtfuss of Baltimore, Md.,
and teamwork. who lette:
‘ill of Monkton, Md. re- _crosse. | os
sin Tacroise0 one for rr lead- The top award winners in each ‘Sport:
| Jd ball—Ray Coates, Berl

 
          
   
    
       
  
  
 
 

ane overall ntributior

8 player. :

  
 

    

 

e » Football—Steve Hannon, ‘Piusburgh,

leadership and sportsmanship; Doug Goss-
mann, Louisville, Ky., “roughest and wimm ni Per

toughest”; Steve Fluharty, St. Petersburg, Ark, most improved. | 7
Fla., most improved; Dave Brooks, Jenkin- @ Tennis—Bill Gatlin, Jacksonville
town, Pa, contriby oa Aa the ‘most on _de- Fla., outstanding, player,

e Track—John Glace, Carlisle, Pa., for
most points and for leadership, sports-
manship, and team loyalty; Bob Sher-
od, Upper Saddle River, N. J. and Tim | >
Haley, Winchester, Va., most improved. — :
 e@ Wrestling—John (Dee) Copenhaver,
Roanoke, Va., for excellence in -perform-
_Neese, “Rochester, ance and for leadership and sportsman-
onal sacrifice; ship; Bill Melton, Virginia: Beach, Va.,
mpkins, Baltimore, outstanding freshman.

  
  

   

     

 
      

 

 
  

 

Glasgow recipient Carter. Raymond (cai) T a
rember, 1971 oe | | 3

 
 

 

two terms of six
e 23rd Judi-
now in private

 

Trust Co. Smith, a business leader of
paral served nine terms as ‘mayor of,

aden pean irect rs of th

Beet Hospital and has been a trustee of
rsity of Delaware since 1958. In.

3, he ‘received the top| humanitarian serv-
ar from" the e National Contents of

 

 

 

 

     

 

   

:
~~ :

 

 

 

is now in

SHERMAN |

e

 

 

 

 

 

dent of Pilot Title Insurance Co. of Greens-
boro, N.C. Bocetti joined Pilot Title in 1963
and served as assistant vice president until
his promotion to second vice president in
1968. He is a director of the South Carolina
Income Producers Association, a member of
the Mortgage Bankers Association of the
Carolinas, and a director of the Carolinas
Land Title Association. One of Washington
and Lee’s outstanding athletes, Bocetti is
currently serving as president of the Wash-
ington and Lee Law Alumni Association.

1955

ALLEN L, LipseTT is manager for purchasing
and operations of the Learner Co. in San
Francisco.

DupLey B. THOMAS and WALTER B. PorTTeR,
‘48, have purchased the Daily Record of
Long Branch, N.J. Potter will become presi-
dent and Thomas vice president and man-
ager of the morning publication.

Downbeat magazine recently did a record re-
view on two albums produced and played by
BRIAN H. SHANLEY. The albums, “Euphonic
Dromomania” and “Enjoy Yourself,” are
done by a group known as OJB. In the re-
view, Downbeat is quoted as saying the band
is “blessed to have clarinetist Shanley, who
served a couple of years with Bob Scobey in
the late ’50’s and remains one of the last sur-
viving exponents of the Albert system.”

SLATOR G. MILLER is harvesting superinten-
dent for Pepeekeo Sugar Co. in Hawaii.

1956

MARRIED: DoNnatd W. Rocket to Dorothy

Anne Webb on May 16 in Cincinnati. Don
Fryburger, ’56, and Charles S. Rockel, 52,
were among the groomsmen.

WILLIAM W. Dixon has been elected senior
vice president of Tucker Wayne & Co., an
Atlanta-based advertising agency. He joined
the firm as an account executive in 1963.

On leave from the University of Houston,
HucH W. STEPHENS will conduct research at
the Center for International Affairs at Har-
vard University during the fall of 1971.

THOMAS B. NEBLETT, JR. is founder and vice
president of marketing for the Computer Co.
of Richmond. Begun two years ago, the firm
sells time-sharing services, programming, and

September, 1971

W. W. Dixon, ’5

consulting systems designs, as well as facili-
ties management.

Attorney MILTON T. HERNDON is the new
mayor of Huntington, W.Va., and his wife
is the newly installed president of National
Lawyers Wives. Mrs. Herndon organized the

first law wives group at Washington and Lee.

1957

ROBERT A. CArRNs operates his firm in Or-
lando, Fla., specializing in investment real
estate and development.

JoHN S. Stump, III has been named general
counsel of United Virginia Bank—First &
Citizens National Bank in Fairfax, Va.

1958

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. KEITH R. BARNEY, JR.,
a son, Anson Marston, on June 4.

VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, Jr., president of
Home Life Insurance Co. in Washington,
D.C., has become president of the District
of Columbia Life Underwriters Association.

RoBert DEGRAAF is a registered architect
with the firm of Heery & Heery of Atlanta
and New York.

JouN C. HurFarp will soon complete 10 years
with Southwire Co. of Carrollton, Ga. He is
vice president for finance.

1959

IRVIN EBAUGH, III, vice president for sales,
has been elected to the board of directors of
Bruning Paint Co., a division of Millmaster
Onyx Corp.

RoBerT C. KETCHAM, now licensed to prac-
tice law in Washington, D.C., is currently
working as administrative assistant to Con-
gressman John Dow of New York.

THomMAsS H. Broapnus, Jr. has been elected
vice president of T. Rowe Price and Associ-
ates, Inc.

1960

Dr. JAMES B. THRELKEL is chief resident
thoracil-cardiovascular surgeon at Vanderbilt
University Hospital.

Davip K. WEAVER is wildlife biologist for the
Hennepin County Park Reserve District lo-
cated in the Minneapolis, Minn. area. His
job includes the restoration of farm lands

 

T. H. Broapus, Jr., ’59

for wildlife habitat and the re-establishment
of the native species of wildlife.

1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. HEALD, a
daughter, Elizabeth Maydock, on Oct. 27,
1970. Heald is with Bankers Trust Co. in
New York.

Dr. MILForp F. ScHWARTz, after completing
military service, was certified by the Ameri-
can Board of Pediatrics in July, 1970. In
June, 1971, he was named a Fellow by the
American Academy of Pediatrics, and he is
currently a U.S. Public Health Service
Fellow.

Dr. E. DARRACOTT VAUGHAN, Jr. has left his
position as assistant professor of urology at
the University of Virginia to accept an NIH
grant to do two years of study at Columbia
Presbyterian Hospital in New York. Vaughan
was recently named to the board of directors
of the Medical Alumni Association of the
University of Virginia.

JAMEs E. ROANE has been named manager of
Riegel Paper Corporation’s soft goods pack-
aging plant in Atlanta, Ga. Roane has held
positions as plant controller at two packaging
division plants and was most recently plant
superintendent in Atlanta. Before joining
Riegel, Roane was associated with Burling-
ton Mills.

STEPHEN H. PALEy is an officer and a direc-
tor of the Virginia Squires basketball club.
He is also general counsel for the club.

1962

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp P. (Neb)
Hoss, a daughter, Laura Elizabeth, on April
15. Hobbs is working at Princeton University
as director of the administrative office, which
works closely with the faculty and outside
interests, such as government and_ business.
He also scouts for the varsity football team
and is an assistant freshman football coach.

G. T. DuNLop Ecker has been named associ-
ate administrator of hospitals and clinics at
the University of Alabama in Birmingham.
He was previously assistant administrator at
Montefiore Hospital and Medical Center in
New York City, and at the Washington Hos-
pital Center in Washington, D.C. Ecker is
also pursuing a degree in law at Samford
University in Birmingham.

17

 

S
oe aan
7

se
a

 

After receiving an M.B.A. degree from Co-
lumbia’s Graduate School of Business, RicH-
ARD T. CLAPP is now working for the Chemi-
cal Bank in New York City.

After another year with the Air Force Judge
Advocate General, Roy JOHN MorGAN ex-
pects to practice law in Orlando, Fla.

F. STRAIT FAIREY, JR. received his M.D. degree
from the Medical University of South Caro-
lina and has recently been appointed to a
residency in family practice there.

RoBERT E. DuvALL has been elected trust
officer of the Riggs National Bank in Wash-
ington, D.C.

1969

MARRIED: CxLarkK M. Goopwin to Gail Van
Vlear on Oct. 24, 1970 in Lee Chapel. Good-
win is currently a news reporter for WAGA-
TV, the CBS station in Atlanta, Ga.

MARRIED: WIitLtiAM R. WILKERSON, II to
Elizabeth Duke Pearson on June 15 in Rich-
mond. Wilkerson is continuing work on a
Ph.D. degree at the University of Virginia.
Among the groomsmen were Brian R. Price,
"70, and Robert Keefe, ’68.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp F. SCHIFF, a
son, Andrew Kevan, on Feb. 4. After a law
clerkship with the U.S. 5th Circuit Court of
Appeals, Schiff is now practicing in Wash-
ington, D.C.

R. GiLtis CAMPBELL has been elected vice
president of Pi Alpha honorary chemistry
fraternity at Emory University.

1970

MARRIED: JouHN M. NOLAN to Joyce Franey
on March 27. Nolan is with the U.S. Postal
Service as a Management associate in Wash-
ington, D.C.

MARRIED: JOHN K. MOTSINGER to Kristin
Ellin Herzog on May 29.

MARRIED: REED BOLTON ByRUM to Jane
Davis on June 19 in Wheeling, W.Va. Byrum
is a reporter for the Wheeling Intelligencer.
Among the groomsmen were Roy D. Carlton,
‘71, Reeve W. Kelsey, 69, Robert Yevich, ’70,
and Robert Keefe, ’68.

September, 1971

 

19

 

ty

*

niversl

 

5

 

 

 

 

 

 

A Special Conference

 

for Alumni Representatives

 

October 7, 8, and g will

 

 

 

Put Your Eye

 

on Washington and Lee University

 

A three-day conference for chapter representatives,
class agents, regional agents, and others upon whom
the University depends for understanding and lead-
ership will be held October 7 through October 9.
This is the fourth in a series of such conferences
designed to inform the participants about every ele-
ment in the life of Washington and Lee—its
strengths, recent changes, needs, aspirations, and
plans for the future. Participants will not only hear
the Washington and Lee story in detail from Uni-
versity officials, faculty members, and students, but
will also have numerous opportunities to exchange
views with them in formal and informal sessions.
The hard work will be interspersed with social gath-
erings, and on October g Washington and Lee will
play Hampden-Sydney in football at Hampden-
Sydney.

While the conference is primarily for those who fit
into the categories of chapter representatives, class
agents, and regional agents, there will be room for
other alumni.

If you are interested in attending this conference,
please write to William C. Washburn, Alumni Secre-
tary, Washington and Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia 24450.

 

WASHINGTON AND ae It Sa Directory

 

ALUMNI DIRECTORY

€) It’s a Document

 

It’s an Answer Book

 

 

The Washington and Lee University
Alumni Directory

1749-1970

The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni
Directory is now available at only $5.00 per copy, in-
cluding postage.

Question: Have you ever wondered whether the
father, the grandfather, an uncle of one of your
classmates also attended Washington and Lee?
You'll find this answer and much more in the new
Alumni Directory. Every person who attended W&L
from 1749 on is listed alphabetically, together with
his class, his degree, his address, and his occupation.

Question: Have you ever wanted a full list of the
members of your class or any class? You'll find it in
the Class Listing section of the Alumni Directory.

Question: Have you ever wondered how many W&L
alumni live in Cleveland, in Philadelphia, in Cairo
—anywhere? The Geographical List in the Alumni
Directory will tell you. If you’re passing through,
you can look them up.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be
without this valuable reference book in his home or
office. Use the handy order form below to order your ©
copy. Do it today.

Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me.................0...... copy(ies) of the Washington
and Lee University Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, in-
cluding postage.

 

Name

 

Address

 

 

Zip

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

available again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of eight different scenes
Price, $39.00 per set of eight,
including shipping charges
Available in blue color only

Send order and check to

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.

 

 

