 

 
 

 

the alumni magazine of washington and lee

(USPS 667-040)
Volume 54, Number 5, July 1979

William C. Washburn, 40 ..................00. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 .................. Associate Editor
Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, ’77 ............... Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter .................0.008, Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ............ cece eee eee ee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Honor and the Tangled Web ...................00000005 1
Commencement 1979 .............ccceceeceneeeeeeeeeenes 4
WKL Gazette oo... c ccc ece ence eee eeeeeeseeneeees 9
Liberty Hall Dig Revelations ......................00065 12
W&Ls Missionaries ...............cccceceeeeeeeeeeeeeeess 14
Plans for the Lee Clock ................c.ccceceeeeeeee ees 16
Annual Fund Report ...............cccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeees 18
Chapter NewS ............cccccecececeeeeeeeeeeeeeseseeeeuss 20
Chapter Presidents .................ccececeeeeeeeeeueusees 27
In Memoriam .......... 00. ccc ccee ese e ence eee eeeseeeaeeenaes 28

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee University Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
President

RICHARD A. DENNY, 52, Atlanta, Ga.
Vice President

WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

LEROY C. ATKINS, 68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD Balin, 49, Spartanburg, S. C.
ANDREW N. Baur, 66, St. Louis, Mo.
EDGAR M. Boyp, 42, Baltimore, Md.
PHILIP R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.

JAMES F.. GALLIVAN, 151, Nashville, Tenn.

G. RUSSELL LADD, '57, Mobile, Ala.
JoHN H. MCCORMACK JR., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

i

ON THE COVER: A collection of scenes from this
years Commencement exercises—a happy time for
all. The law and undergraduate graduation ceremonies
were held separately this year because of calendar
differences: 116 law degrees were awarded and 271
baccalaureate degrees. Coverage of the events begins
on Page 4. Photographs by Sally Mann and Staff.

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Hodges is the founder and director of Washington and Lee’s
program in professional ethics of medicine, journalism, and law.
He received his undergraduate education at Millsaps College
and his Ph.D. from the University of North Carolina.

This article is adapted from his baccalaureate sermon to W&L’s
graduating students and their families in June.

The Wall Street Journal this past January reported on a class
at the Harvard Business School. The headline on the article said
“To some at Harvard, telling lies becomes a matter of course.”
The subhead read: “Untruths can improve grade in business
school class.” The article detailed the method of teaching in a
negotiations course. If in negotiating a business deal with
another student, a student was able to gain an upper hand by
lying, he got the high grade and the deceived student a low one.
The teacher preferred to call the practice not lying but “strategic
misrepresentation. ”

Another author, Albert C. Carr, employed another
euphemism for lying; he called it “bluffing.” Writing in the
Harvard Business Review, Mr. Carr claimed that the ethics of
business are not those of society, but rather those of the poker
game. He cited the case of a salesman who found himself
without a job. “The man was 58, and in spite of a good record,
his chance of getting a job elsewhere in a business where youth
is favored in hiring practices was not good. He was a vigorous,

 

By Louis W. Hodges

Professor of Religion

HONOR
AND

THE
TANGLED
WEB

A Baccalaureate Discourse
On the Moral Anatomy
Of Deceit and Its Bearing
Upon the W&L Vision

Dr. Louis W. Hodges

healthy man, and only a considerable amount of gray in his hair
suggested his age. Before beginning his job search he touched
up his hair with a black dye to confine the gray to his temples.
He knew that the truth about his age might well come out in
time, but he calculated that he could deal with that situation
when it arose. He and his wife decided that he could easily pass
for 45, and he so stated his age on his résumé.” At that point
Mr. Carr added the following judgment: “This was a lie; yet
within the accepted rules of the business game; no moral
culpability attaches to it.”

In her recent treatise on lying, Dr. Sissela Bok finds that
deception appears increasingly to be a way of life. It is common
practice for many doctors, for example, to tell what some regard
as the “benevolent lie.” The instructions in one hospital advised
the doctor that if a patient with a certain type of fever asks what
his temperature is, the doctor should say, “Your temperature is
normal today.” By that he would mean not that the
thermometer read 98.6, but that for someone in precisely that
patient's condition, namely one with a high fever, his
temperature was normal.

Professor Monroe Freedman has concluded that since the
lawyer s complete obligation is to his client, in some cases the
lawyer should not reveal to the court the fact that the client’s
testimony is perjured.

 

 

HONOR AND THE TANGLED WEB

 

“He who deceives us impinges on our freedom, our

autonomy, our capacity to be human and build our life. .

.. He who

deceives us thus assaults our humanity.”

 

In literature, stories about deceit are plentiful. In the
Garden of Eden, for example, the serpent deceived Eve by
getting her to believe that God Himself first deceived. The
implication of the serpent’s statement to Eve is that God gave
Adam and Eve the wrong reason for his prohibition of eating the
forbidden fruit.

When Abraham journeyed into Egypt with his wife, Sarah,
he feared that the Egyptians would so want his beautiful wife
that they would kill him and take her. He therefore lied by
presenting her as his sister. The Pharaoh did take her, but he
did not kill Abraham.

Iago deceived Othello concerning Cassio’s drinking and got
Cassio discharged. Thereby Iago began weaving his tangled
web. Iago encouraged Cassio to ask Desdemona to plead with
Othello on his behalf. Iago then used Cassio’s meeting with
Desdemona as a first step in his deception of Othello about her
fidelity. Partly by outright lie and partly by innuendo, Iago
played deftly on Othello’s self-doubt, on his uncertainties about
the ways of Venice, his lack of skill in soft conversation, and his
advancing age. Iago was, of course, successful in deceiving
Othello, thereby prompting his murder of Desdemona and his
own suicide.

In theological literature we find many moral analyses of
deceit, especially of lying. Augustine, for example, regarded
lying as a mortal sin which was never to be condoned. He
concluded that one should not even lie to a robber, though
telling the truth to the robber may assist him in laying low his
victim. Aquinas and Kant reached a similar conclusion about the
obligation not to lie even to the robber.

On the other hand, Paul Lehman, a modern theologian,
thinks differently. He poses a question about the duties of the
person who has a car to sell. The seller is not obligated to be
truthful to the buyer. Lehman’s tortuous logic is that “If the
buyer and the seller of the car come through the transaction to a
true consideration of each other's predicament, then they do not
merely transact business. The business transaction becomes
instrumental to their discovery of each other as human beings.”
You will look long and hard before you find a more tangled web
than Lehman weaves.

Another theologian, Dietrich Bonhoeffer, poses this
dilemma. A Jewish friend in Nazi Germany comes to your door
asking for asylum, and you grant it. The SS a few minutes later
knocks on your door and inquires about your friend. You have,
in Bonhoeffer’s view, a positive moral obligation to deny
knowledge of his whereabouts. Bonhoeffer then justifies this
conclusion by claiming that this is not a case of lying, since you

 

are “being true’ to your friend. While you and I might agree
with him on the obligation not to betray your friend, we would
perhaps not feel obligated to go through the charade of denying
we had lied in order to do so.

Deceit comes in all sizes and shapes. Sometimes it takes the
form of pure and simple false statement or untruth, sometimes
the “white lie,” but sometime the lie of literal truth. The story is
told, though I have not been able to document it in detail, of a
conversation between John Dean and Jeb Magruder. Magruder
consulted Dean about his testimony at a hearing. Magruder was
sure the committee would ask him about the secret fund in
Haldeman’s safe. He asked Dean’s advice. Dean is said to have
told Magruder, “Simply tell them there is no secret fund.” In
justification of that advice Dean continued: “You know about the
fund, don’t you? Haldeman knows about it; Ehrlichman knows
about it; and so do I. Now, when so many people know about a
fund it certainly is not secret.”

Aware as we are, then, of deceit as a theme in literature and
as a reality in life, perhaps it would be useful to examine its
anatomy, its effects, and its roots.

It is curious that when the schoolmen enumerated their lists
of “deadly sins,” deceit was rarely among them. Perhaps the
reason is that they viewed deceit as merely an evil means to
deeper and more ignominious ends, greed or lust, for instance.
But is it not more? Is a willingness to deceive not a fundamental
violation of the Jewish and Christian obligation to love and serve
others?

Deceit is—in its intent and in its effect—a form of aggression
against the deceived. The logic is this: Among the absolute
prerequisites for a genuinely human life is freedom to select and
pursue one’s goals. The human being is in some measure an
autonomous, self-directing being. But in pursuing our goals, we
act toward the world only in terms of our perception of that
world. Thus it is vital that our perception of the world around us
conform as closely as possible to the way that world really is. A
correct perception of the world around us is a precondition for
freedom to pursue our goals effectively.

Hence it follows that he who deceives us impinges on our
freedom, our autonomy, our capacity to be human and build our
life. He who plants falsehoods, half-truths, and misperceptions
in our minds deprives us of the precious precondition to a
genuinely human life. He who deceives us thus assults our
humanity. Since this is the catastrophic effect of deceit, it is
clearly a violation of our deepest moral obligations. Hence
deceit is not merely an innocent means to some sinful end such
as lust or greed. It is, instead, intrinsically a frontal attack on

 

he

 

 

 

“But what about the deceiver? Ultimately, his
willingness to deceive deprives the deceiver of freedom also. . . . Being
untrustworthy, he loses his capacity to trust.”

 

people through the reduction of their freedom.

It is a powerful form of assault. This is clear in Othello. Few
people, and especially Iago, would have dared attack mighty
Othello with the sword. But by deceit even puny Iago could
create false images in Othello’s mind which robbed him of his
capacity to trust Desdemona. With trust destroyed, love
evaporated. In its place grew resentment and revenge. These
led to Othello’s murder of Desdemona and to his suicide.

Deceit, then, is finally an attack on others and thus contrary
to Jewish or Christian moral duty. But what about the deceiver?
Ultimately, his willingness to deceive deprives the deceiver of
freedom also. He who lies easily slips into the routine of being a
liar and of living the lie. He begins to lie to cover his lies. He is
afraid, afraid of being found out. Sir Walter Scott was right:

y
Oh, what a tangled web we weave,
When first we practice tp deceive!

i

But the plot thickens for him who would deceive. Given the
tendency to project ourselves into others, the liar becomes
increasingly unsure of the truthfulness of others. Being
untrustworthy, he loses his capacity to trust. And as that
capacity is diminished he feels isolated, uncertain, and fearful.
Thus the freedom of the liar is effectively curtailed. He who is
not free to trust is not free to be human.

These observations suggest that deceit is destructive to both
the one deceived and the deceiver. But what happens when the
deceived and the deceiver are one and the same person? What
about self-deceit? Self-deceit may well be its most powerful and
destructive form. One may deceive oneself, for example, about
talents and abilities. If we believe ourselves to have vast talents
when we do not, the result is paralyzing frustration. If we
believe ourselves to have fewer talents than we in fact possess,
the result is underachievement and indolence. Since human life
depends upon our knowing ourselves accurately, to be deceived
about oneself may be the ultimate failure.

So much for the moral anatomy of deceit. This brings us, at
last, to the point of this article. This University is a very special
place. The student here is exposed to vast information—and
some of it takes. The student at Washington and Lee is exposed
to the great ideas and artifacts of human history—and some of
them inspire him.

But those things the student could find or do quite well by
himself, or at some other place. Those things require a library,
some museums, and a laboratory, not necessarily a university. A
university is far more than an information machine. A good
university is a community in which we grow not merely

 

intellectually but as persons, as human beings. That personal
growth occurs as we come to trust and to be trusted.

We have sought to build such a community at Washington
and Lee. In part we succeed; in part we fall short. But the
student at this University lives his life for three years, or four,
or seven, in a special place where the vision remains of human
beings living together in mutual trust. We expect ourselves to
be “gentle men.” We expect ourselves not merely to trust
others but to be ourselves worthy of their trust.

These expectations—and they are both difficult and noble—
are nowhere more concretely manifested than in the Honor
System. But just as honor and trust are fragile, so is an honor
system. It is open to misperception. To see the Honor System as
merely a “code of conduct” is to misperceive it. Codes of
conduct have as their only legitimate end the shaping of what
one does. Honor has instead also to do with what one is. To
perceive the Honor System merely as a way of preventing lying,
cheating, and stealing is also to misperceive it. Insofar as it
prevents those things, it performs a mere police function. To see
it in that way is to debase honor to a mere utility. Further, if we
perceive the Honor System as valuable because of its utility in
diminishing lying, cheating, and stealing, it will gradually cease
to have even that function. It would then receive no more
respect than any other system of regulating human conduct. Nor
would it deserve more respect than that.

Instead, community at Washington and Lee is rooted in a
vision. It is a vision of what life might be like when men are
honorable, when men’s lives flow from an aspiration, the hope
not merely of acting honorably but of being honorable.

The power of that vision to transform us is a direct result of
its simplicity. On the one hand, it envisions the dignity and
worth of every human life. On the other hand, it demands that
measure of humility which nurtures in us a willingness to serve
the needs of people. Being honorable is the basis for every true
human community.

That, of course, is what covenant is about in the Old
Testament, and the Kingdom of God in the New. In this sense,
Washington and Lee, conceived as it was in a minister’s study,
is not unmindful of its Christian heritage.

At Washington and Lee, one is part of a special community,
and remains a part of it even after leaving. Our community is
special because of our vision of what it is to trust. That vision,
like many of life’s more vital lessons, is one which cannot be
taught; rather, it must be caught. It can be caught only by living
in acommunity where it lives. We have lived there—students,

alumni, even faculty, staff and administration. Iago did not.

 

COMMENCEMENT 1979

387 Men and Women Receive Degrees; Three Alumni, Benefactor Are Honored

Washington and Lee awarded diplomas
to 387 men and women and conferred four
honorary doctorates in commencement
exercises this spring.

The honorary degrees were presented
to three prominent alumni and a generous
W&L benefactor: Dr. Harry Lyons, ’22, of
Richmond, dean of the School of Dentistry
at the Medical College of Virginia from
1951 to 1970; Dr. John David Maguire,
president of Old Westbury College, a
component of the State University of New
York; Miss Ruth Parmly of New York City,
who gave $1.5 million to Washington and
Lee four years ago and for whose father
Parmly Hall, the “new” science building,
is now named; and John F. Watlington,
former president, board chairman and
chief executive officer of Wachovia Bank &

 

 

Trust Co. of Winston-Salem, N.C., now
chairman of Wachovia's executive
committee.

Commencement-week activities began
with the traditional baccalaureate sermon,
delivered this year by Dr. Louis W.
Hodges, director of W&L’s program in
pre-professional ethics. His remarks are
the substance of an article in this issue.

The School of Law awarded 116 Juris
Doctor degrees at the end of May. Law
diplomas were presented in a ceremony
separate from that for the undergraduate
divisions because of the difference in
academic calendars.

President Huntley was the speaker at
the law ceremony, which was followed by
a reception for graduates, their families,
and the law faculty.

Undergraduate graduation exercises
took place 10 days later, beginning with a

 

;

 

Dean Roy L. Steinheimer addresses law graduates at exercises held 10 days before the undergraduate commencement.

commissioning ceremony for 13 graduates
of the Reserve Officer Training Corps
program. Major General John R. D.
Cleland, director of plans and policy for
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, was the speaker.
Gen. Cleland’s son, Gary, was among the
ROTC cadets who were commissioned as
second lieutenants. Cleland earned
Distinguished Military Graduate honors.
In his remarks to the 271 B.A. and B.S.
graduates and their families, President
Huntley warned against blind reliance by
the American people on leaders whose
principal trait seems to be charisma, a
leader—elected or otherwise—‘whom one
greatly admires or is attracted to,” to

Dr. Harry Lyons, Doctor of Science | John David Maguire, Doctor of Letters

 

 

Louis McFadden and his son Louis P. Jr. put on a father-son act at the
law commencement. They both received Juris Doctor degrees. Another
McFadden son, Kevin, received a B.A. degree.

A. Calvert, B.A. With them is President Huntley.

whose beliefs one may become
“vicariously committed.”

The risk in following charismatic
leaders, Huntley said, is that it “creates
merely an illusion of democracy. It
abandons belief in the wisdom of the
democratic process and substitutes for it
belief in the wisdom of the charismatic
leader. ... Im not sure I much prefer an
elected monarch to one selected in some
other way.”

Huntley said he was vexed at the
currently fashionable attacks on “what
used to be called the American
Experiment’ by “distinguished and
learned persons’ who believe it is “failing
and must eventually be supplanted. The
conclusion is not usually stated in quite
that bald fashion,” Huntley said, “but if

6

 

Dr. G. Edward Calvert, '44, of Lynchburg (second from left) was the proud
father of two graduates, Matthew J. Calvert (left), Juris Doctor, and Robert

 

Trustee E. Waller Dudley, ’43, ’47L, stands behind a solid WUL family
group: son Luther H. Dudley, ’76, and his wife Sug, daughter of former

 

 

Trustee Jack Crist, ’45, and son Waller T. Dudley, 74, and 79 law graduate.

A happy group from Jackson, Miss., were Susan Elliott, law graduate
Robert P. Wise, Joseph P. Wise, ’74L, Louise Wise Lucas, Mrs. Sherwood

 

Wise, and Sherwood W. Wise, '32, ’34L.

you listen or read carefully you will have
no trouble finding it.”

“The crux of the American
Experiment, he said, is that “the
principal sovereign is the individual’ —not
an easy responsibility; it may well lead to
weariness and eventual abandonment of
the “burden of self-rule.” A vacuum then
inevitably results, he said, which in turn is
almost certain to be filled by the
government. “If the state does not become
authoritarian, the void left by the default
of the people would be enormous.

“But [the American] government, since
it is constructed on an opposite premise, is
especially ill suited to become the
monolithic authority in our national life.

. . . As we lose the common personal and
moral values we once shared, as ancient
faiths are withered or distorted, as the

 

problems of a modern, overcrowded
society press in around us, we are
increasingly likely to yield to that

tendency to give up a personal sovereignty
which we no longer know how to
exercise.

Washington and Lee, however, stands
in an effort to counter that tendency,
Huntley said; the University “embodies in
some almost-mystical way those qualities
upon which the American Experiment
depends.” And, like the American
Experiment, W&L is “a fragile enterprise.
If those who love it do not nourish it, it
will not long survive.”

The Algernon Sydney Sullivan
Award, conferred by the faculty on the

 

 

Sons of alumni who received Juris Doctor degrees stand behind their fathers: Joseph B. Martin, 49 (Channing J.); E. Waller Dudley, ’43, ’47L (Waller T. );

G. Edward Calvert, ’44 (Matthew J.); Mrs. Jerome Greenberg, husband ’46, ’48L, deceased (Richard L. ); Robert T. Vaughan, ’42, ’44L (Robert T. Jr.); Louis
P. McFadden, ‘79L (Louis P. Jr.); Sherwood W. Wise, ’32, ’34L (Robert P.); Frederick T. Bromm, ’42 (Frederick W. ).

H arry Franklin Hoke III, winner of the Algernon Sydney Sullivan Award,

displays plaque for his parents.

student who has most conspicuously
excelled “in high ideals of living, in
spiritual qualities, and in generous and
disinterested service to others,” was
presented to Harry F. Hoke III of
Richmond, a summa cum laude graduate in
mathematics and physics who was captain
of the swimming team and a junior-year
member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Robert E. Atkinson Jr. of Kingstree,
S.C., was the 1979 valedictorian. He was
graduated with majors in history and
philosophy, and had a perfect 4.0 grade-
point average—only the sixth W&L man to
achieve such a record in recent years.

Dr. Lyons, who received the honorary
Doctor of Science degree, is a member of
the Class of 1922. He is a former president
of the American Dental Association, the
American College of Dentists, and the

 

 

 

   

 

American Association of Dental Schools.

The dentistry building at the Medical
College of Virginia is named for him.

The honorary degree citation for Dr.
Lyons remarked that Washington and
Lee's regard for him is already so great
that “it would be impossible to obey the
dentist's familiar admonition to ‘open a
little wider, please!’ ”

Dr. Maguire is in his second five-year
term as president of Old Westbury on

_ Long Island. He is a 1953 Phi Beta Kappa

graduate of W&L and was a Fulbright
Scholar in Scotland in 1953-54. He earned
one of only eight summa cum laude
degrees ever awarded by Yale University’s
Divinity School; he also earned his Ph.D.
in theology and psychiatry from Yale.

 

 

Susan H. Gray, Juris Doctor recipient, with her alumnus father,
George H. Gray, ‘SOL.

W&L conferred the honorary Doctor of
Letters degree on him.

Dr. Maguire became president of Old
Westbury in 1970 after 10 years at
Wesleyan University in Connecticut. Last
fall Change magazine, one of the most
influential education journals, chose him as
one of its 100 “most respected emerging
leaders in higher education.”

Miss Parmly’s father, Charles Howard
Parmly, was the founder of City College of
New York's engineering school and was its
first professor. Neither Miss Parmly or her
father had any direct connection with
Washington and Lee—though her family
knew Mr. and Mrs. Robert Parker
Doremus, who benefacted the University
in 1914 after visiting the campus on a
Southern trip.

Miss Parmly’s gift was one of six of

Sons of alumni who received academic degrees stand behind their

   

Ls EEE

fathers: Roland E. Cote, ’46 (John); Marvin P. Meadors Jr., °55 (Marvin III); J. Edward

 

   

   

a

Moyler Jr., 51, 55L (James E. III); Harry A. Berry Jr., ’49, °51L (George); William J. Scott Jr., ’42 (David); John J. Mangan, '42L (Stephen); A. A. Radcliffe,
37 (Lee, 76, Andrew, 79); James H. FlippenJr., °53L (James H. III); Ruel W. Tyson Jr., 52 (David); Kendall C. Jones, ’37 (Kendall C. Jr.); Percy D. Ayres Jr.,

24 (Percy D. III).

More sons of alumni who received academic degrees stand behind their fathers: Samuel M. Hairston, ‘51L (Henry); William R. Mauck, ’52 (William Jr.);

 

John E. McDonald, 57 (John Jr.); Gordon G. Tucker, ’54 (William); Roy A. Craig Jr., 53 (John); J. Spencer Frantz, ’54 (J. Spencer Jr.); Robert P. Tyson, ‘43

(Todd); Louis P. McFadden, ’79L (Kevin).

more than $1 million Washington and Lee
received during the $36-million first-phase
development program. She said she chose
to endow Washington and Lee because it
stands for the same commitment to
teaching excellence and to honor which
her father cherished.

Miss Parmly herself is a graduate of
Vassar and of Columbia, where she earned
the M.A. degree. Columbia's Institute of
French Studies later published her thesis,
The Geographical References in the
“Chanson de Garin le Loherain.” Miss
Parmly received the honorary Doctor of
Humane Letters degree.

Watlington was valedictorian of W&L's
1933 graduating class. He joined Wachovia
in that year and by 1946 had become
senior vice president and chairman of its

 

 

 

Zounds! It's Omega
Again for Z.Z. Zadins

If your initials are Z.Z.Z., you're ac-
customed to being at the end of every
line. And so it was at graduation. Zin-
tars Zigurds Zadins, a B.A. graduate
in geology, was 271st out of 271 to
receive his diploma. Actually, his di-
ploma itself was rather extraordinary.
The diploma-printer didnt have
enough capital Zs (who does?), so Mr.
Zadins sheepskin had to be run
through the press three times. There
was a move among some of the faculty
and administration to move Mr. Zadins
to the front of the line as a graduation
gift, but strict alphabetarianism pre-
vailed in the end.

 

 

 

Charlotte, N.C., board. In 1956 he
became president and chief executive
officer of the parent company, and in 1974
was elected chairman of the board. Since
1977 he has been chairman of the
executive committee.

He is a member of the board of the
Virginia Foundation for Independent
Colleges, the 12-member joint fund-
raising group of which W&L is a founding
member. Watlington is also chairman of
the board of visitors of Wake Forest
University’s Bowman Gray School of
Medicine and a member of the boards of
Union Theological Seminary in Richmond
and Duke University s Graduate School of
Business Administration. He received the
honorary Doctor of Laws degree.

alae

GAZETTE

W&Lss Admissions Situation Brightens in Both Quantity and Quality

 

 

Admissions reports

Fifty-six percent of the applicants to
whom W&L offered admission last spring
confirmed their decision to attend W&L—
an extraordinarily high “yield,” admissions
officials said.

The number of applications the
University received for undergraduate
admission was 1,085 this year, up 11.2
percent from the 1978 figure, (which was
the lowest in many years). The decline in
1978 was attributed to the addition of a
formidable essay requirement as part of
the application form, but the University
later concluded that the essay requirement
had a negligible effect either on the size or
the academic quality of the class that
actually enrolled, and that the essay
apparently had the effect of discouraging
applications primarily from poorlyé °
qualified students and students who, were
not strong in their desire to attend W&L
to begin with. ”

This year, in addition to the rise in the
absolute number of applications, the
University had a sharp jump in the
number of “top-ten-percent” students who
confirmed their decision to enroll at W&L.
Of the 369 students who confirmed their
admission, 27 percent rank in the top 10
percent of their secondary-school classes.
A year ago the comparable statistic was 22
percent. And the “top-20-percent” figure
jumped even more sharply, to 67 percent
this year from 56 percent in 1978.

Sixteen of the freshmen who will enter
W&L in September were valedictorians or
salutatorians in their high-school classes,
and five of the entering students are
National Merit Scholars.

The School of Law, meanwhile,
received 1,177 applications for 115 places
in the entering class. The application pool
was down 9 percent from the figure a year
ago—a smaller decline than the nationwide
drop in applications to all law schools,
which is estimated at 10 to 14 percent.

Judging by their undergraduate grade-
point averages, the entering law students
are the smartest W&L has ever had. The
mean grade-point is 3.38 on a 4.0 scale, up
from last year’s 3.27. The average score on
the standardized Law School Admission

Dr. William Buchanan

Test (LSAT), however, dropped eight
points to 641 from last year’s record 649
average. (The 1977 and 1976 LSAT
averages were 639 and 641.)

 

 

Faculty promotions

Promotions in rank for eight members
of the undergraduate faculty will become
effective Sept. 1.

Promoted from associate to full
professor were James J. Donaghy of the
physics department, John K. Jennings of
the journalism department, and J. Ramsey
Martin of the philosophy department.

Promoted from assistant to associate
professor were John R. Handelman of the
politics department, John M. McDaniel of
the sociology-anthropology department,
Pamela Hemenway Simpson of the art
department and H. Thomas Williams of
the physics department.

Isabel MclIlvain, the University’s
sculptor-in-residence, was promoted from
instructor in studio art to assistant
professor.

 

 

More faculty news

Two W&L professors, Joseph B.
Thompson of the psychology faculty and
William Buchanan of the politics
department, are the authors of a new
text/workbook on applying statistical data

      

Dr. Joseph B. Thompson

to psychology. Their 310-page book,
Analyzing Psychological Data, was
published by Charles Scribner’s Sons.

The book focuses on actual
experimental research procedures and data
because, the authors note, “we believe
that early exposure to the practice of
research and statistical evaluation of results
is the best way to learn.” Topics covered
in the book range from “research outside
the laboratory” to ways of gauging the
accuracy of statistical evidence.

Thompson is a Ph.D. graduate of the
University of Wisconsin and has taught at
W&L since 1966. Buchanan, a 1941 W&L
graduate whose Ph.D. is from Princeton,
returned to W&L in 1966 as head of the
politics department. Among his books is
Understanding Political Variables, similar
to the new book he and Thompson wrote,
also published by Scribner’s (1969; revised
edition, 1974).

Charles W. Turner, professor of
American history, is the author of two
articles on Virginia history—“Bishop
William Taylor of Rockbridge—Bishop to
the World,” published this summer in
South California Quarterly, and “Virginia
Central Railroad,” published in Virginia
Cavalcade, the journal of the State
Library.

S. Todd Lowry, professor of
economics, is also the author of two
recently published articles, “Recent

&& caneree

Literature on Ancient Greek Economic
Thought,” in the American Economic
Association's Journal of Economic
Literature, and “A Nightmare in
Introductory Economics,” in the Journal
of Economic Issues, published by
Michigan State University.

Hoke wins NCAA scholarship

Harry Franklin Hoke III, a 1979
graduate of Washington and Lee, has been
awarded a $1,500 NCAA post-graduate
scholarship. He will use the scholarship at
the University of North Carolina, Chapel
Hill, where he plans to obtain a doctorate
in mathematics. He is the sixth W&L
student-athlete since 1970 to receive the
award and the second to be a swimmer.
While at W&L, Hoke earned four varsity
letters in swimming and two in water polo.
He graduated second in a class of 305 and
was the recipient of the Algernon Sydney
Sullivan Medallion, awarded at
commencement each year by the faculty to
the graduate who excels in high living
ideals, spiritual qualities, and generous
service to others.

25 graduate returns
as visiting lecturer

Among visiting scholars at W&L during
the Spring Term was Dr. Herbert Pollack,
‘25, currently a special consultant to the
State Department on radiation. He spoke
on the topic “Moscow Microwave
Radiation of the U.S. Embassy: Media
Report and Actual Facts.” Dr. Pollack, a
retired professor of clinical medicine at
George Washington University, was the
first to measure acid base—pH— in a living
cell. After graduation from Washington
and Lee he earned his medical degree
from Cornell and a Ph.D. in medicine at
the University of Minnesota.

Area radio workshop

The W&L journalism department
sponsored a month-long program this
summer for Lexington area high-school
students in radio station management and
operation. The students studied the
techniques and problems of broadcasting
management under Robert J. DeMaria,
assistant professor of journalism and

10

Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr., 29, ’31L, introduces his son Lewis F. Powell III, ’74, and his daughter-in-

  

law, Mims Powell, to U.S. District Court in Richmond.

manager of WLUR-FM, the University
radio station. The students then applied
their knowledge by actually operating
WLUR six nights a week.

aa AS ET EE EI
Powell cites W&L ties

in court appearance

Three Powells stood before the bench
in U.S. District Court in Richmond one
day this summer—one returning to an old
haunt from his current position on the
highest court in the land, the other two
newly admitted to law practice.

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Lewis F.
Powell Jr. (a 1929 B.A. graduate of
Washington and Lee, and 1931 law
graduate) told Judge Robert R. Merhige
Jr. (a graduate of the University of
Richmond): “It is possible you haven't
heard anything too dreadful about them
yet, the Richmond Times-Dispatch
reported.

“They re both graduates of the
University of Virginia law school.”

“That has never stopped us from
qualifying anyone before,” Merhige
replied.

Said Powell: “One went to Vanderbilt
[daughter-in-law Mims Maynard Powell]
and the other went to Washington and Lee
[Lewis III, 74]. Does that help any?”

“That helps greatly,” Merhige said.

Lewis Powell III, who is finishing a
year as acclerk to Judge Merhige, is joining
Hunton & Williams, the firm in which his
father was a partner before being named to
the Supreme Court. Mims Powell is
entering the firm of McGuire, Woods &
Battle. Both law firms are in Richmond.

Changes in the administration

A Massachusetts man, Michael D.
Bartini, is Washington and Lee’s new
director of student financial aid. He began
work at W&L in August after three years
as director of financial aid and assistant
admissions director at Simon's Rock Early
College in Great Barrington, Mass. (An
“early college” is one which admits
exceptionally qualified students midway in
their high-school years. )

Bartini succeeds Van H. Pate, who
became associate admissions director at
W&L earlier in the summer. Pate had

 

Richmond Times-Dispatch Photo by Amir M.

directed the University’s financial aid
program for seven years.

Bartini is a 1976 economics graduate of
Westfield (Mass.) State College. The
financial aid program he administers at
Washington and Lee will distribute
approximately $1.25 million in the 1979-80
academic year (about $600,000 of it
University funds; the rest in federal and
Virginia Tuition Assistance program
money).

John L. White, a 1974 graduate of
W&L in sociology and philosophy, is the
University’s new coordinator of minority
affairs. He returned to W&L after
developing and administering the career
development program at Trident Technical
College, Charleston, S.C.

White, who earned his M.S. degree in
guidance and counseling from Radford
College, succeeds Curtis Hubbard,
Washington and Lee’s minority affairs
coordinator for the past three years.

At Trident, White supervised two
career development centers and produced
100 career information brochures and 25
audio-visual programs. Earlier, as student
development counselor, he had created
Trident’s career center and developed all
its resources.

At W&L he is adviser to the Student
Association for Black Unity and also has
charge of the University’s minority-student
recruitment activities. He also has broad
general responsibilities in student affairs.

Two men, Peter M. Williams and W.
Michael Hallman, have been named
admissions counselors. Williams is a June
graduate of the University with honors in
history. Hallman comes to W&L from
Southern Benedictine College in Cullman,
Ala., where he was assistant admissions
director. He is a B.S. graduate of the
University of Alabama with a master’s
degree in counselor education from
Virginia.

Williams and Hallman will have
substantial responsibility for student
recruitment on W&Lis behalf. They will
visit secondary schools, conduct on-
campus interviews, and review
applications for admission.

Edwin D. Craun, assistant dean of The
College since 1976, has been promoted to
associate dean. He is an associate professor
of English. Craun, who received the
Ph.D. in Renaissance literature from
Princeton, has taught at W&L since 1971.

Summertime faculty activity

Two W&L teachers, Gerard M.
Doyon, professor of art history, and David
R. Novack, assistant sociology professor,
received National Endowment for the
Humanities research grants this summer.
The grant to Doyon enabled him to take
part in a seminar on the images of Paris in
modern art, which took place in Paris.
Novack’s grant was for participation in a
seminar series on crime and punishment in
America, held at the University of
Virginia.

Doyon, whose Ph.D. is from Boston
University, has taught at Washington and
Lee since 1968. Novack earned his Ph.D.
from New York University and joined the
W&L faculty in 1976.

Pamela Hemenway Simpson, assistant
art history professor, received a grant to
support summer research and study in
England from the Victorian Society In
America. She spent three weeks at the
University of London participating in a
program there on the topic of 19th-century
English architecture. Simpson has taught
at W&L since 1973, the year she received
her Ph.D. in art history from the
University of Delaware.

Dr. Charles F. Phillips Jr., professor of
economics, taught in a number of seminar
programs for business executives this
summer: a two-week session in the
University of Michigan’s Public Utilities
Executives Program, a course for power-
system marketing trainees sponsored by
Westinghouse, a conference on utility
planning sponsored by Planmetrics Inc. in
Illinois, and a seminar for utility-company
executives on “The Cost of Money’
sponsored. by-Kidder, Peabody & Co. of
New York City.

During-the Spring Term, Phillips
commuted weekly to the University of
Michigan and to New Jersey (for an AT&T-
sponsored graduate-study program
administered by Pace University) to teach
courses in public utility economics—in
addition to teaching at Washington and
Lee.

And a book edited by Phillips,
Regulation, Competition and
Deregulation—An Economic Grab Bag,
the sixth in a series, was published by the
University this summer. The volume
contains papers presented at programs in
1977 and 1978 co-sponsored by W&L and

the Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone
Companies. Phillips is currently
organizing and directing the eighth in the
annual W&L-C&P series, and another
volume of papers is expected to be
published next year.

ee ee

Fall sports schedule

Football

Sept. 8—Delaware Valley Away
Sept. 15—Emory & Henry Away
Sept. 22—Centre Home
Sept. 29—Randolph-Macon Away
Oct. 6—Fordham (Homecoming) Home
Oct. 13—Hampden-Sydney Away
Oct. 20—University of the South Away
Oct. 27—Bridgewater Home
Nov. 3—Maryville Home
Nov. 10—Georgetown Home

(Parents Weekend)

Soccer
Sept. 7-8—Washington College Away
Tournament
Sept. 15—Hampden-Sydney Home
Sept. 19—West Virginia Wesleyan Home
Sept. 26—Richmond Away
Sept. 29—Eastern Mennonite Home
Oct. 3—Davidson Away
Oct. 7—Averett (Homecoming) Home
Oct. 9—Radford Away
Oct. 13—Navy Home
Oct. 20—Mary Washington Home
Oct. 24—Roanoke Home
Oct. 27—Lynchburg Away
Oct. 30—Virginia Wesleyan Away
Nov. 4—V.M.I. Home
Cross-Country

Sept. 22—Davis & Elkins,

Mary Washington Home
Sept. 29—Roanoke, Norfolk —

State Salem, Va.
Oct. 6—Virginia Wesleyan, Norfolk

State, Lynchburg,

Christopher Newport Home
Oct. 13—Bridgewater, Roanoke,

Eastern Mennonite Salem, Va.
Oct. 20—Glenville State, West

Virginia Institute

of Technology Home
Oct. 27—Hampden-Sydney Home
Nov. | 3—ODAC Championships

Hampden-Sydney, Va.

Nov. 1O0—NCAA Qualifying Meet Away
Nov. 17—NCAA Division III

Championships Away

11

 

Drawing of Liberty Hall ruins

By John McDaniel

Associate Professor of Anthropology

LIBERTY
HALL DIG

IS UPDATING
HISTORY

Life at Frontier
School Is Found
To Be Far From
Crude and Isolated

  
   
    
 

oo
=
re

wr Te ewer ee it

To TPs \ 1 REG
7 e Wy
™
\
a

'
L
We ——-— wo
\ iy
l

il eee

eae | )
Ra SA »
TT Ny i
eA Pd B y al g wert Lf |
cy bo ~ ni Vee 7h. ‘
. oa - = Es id I WY
‘ (BE : {Jt UB 7) MM
MAS
aL)
Sol
ORSHSLER.

mo wie : Ses
7 - = > oa
WHA <i. Va ELLE te:
on, oe Se

l

Documented drawing of how Liberty Hall looked
before it was destroyed by fire in January 1803

12

 

Cle
eG .

The archaeological excavation at the
ruins of Liberty Hall Academy entered its
fifth—and final—season this summer, and
some of the conclusions the researchers
have drawn are surprising.

Perhaps the most significant finding is
that, despite traditional representations,
life 200 years ago at the supposed
“frontier” west of the Blue Ridge was far
from crude and isolated. The
archaeological evidence demonstrates that
the people who taught and studied at
Liberty Hall in the years 1779 to 1803
enjoyed a sophisticated, secure life.

Liberty Hall, which of course evolved
into Washington and Lee, had its campus
about a mile west of today’s W&L. The
archaeological “dig” began there in 1974,
under the direction of Dr. John M.
McDaniel, associate professor of sociology
and anthropology and a broadly
experienced field archaeologist.

That the site had remained
undisturbed for 171 years since a fire
gutted the main building in 1803 was
exciting because it was unusual, perhaps
even unique. There are not many colleges
that trace to the 18th century at all, and
those few generally built up (or other
things were built) on their original sites.

More than 200 students have been
involved in the “dig.” Funds to support
the project have come from the
University, from the Virginia Bicentennial
Commission (the project was begun as a
Bicentennial activity), from “Earthwatch,”
a national clearinghouse for educational
on-site explorations, and from several
foundations and individuals.

During the course of the project, the
sites of nine Liberty Hall structures have
been located. Seven of them were
unknown when the dig began.

More than 20,000 artifacts were found
and catalogued. It is primarily the analysis
of these that led to the important
conclusions about the relatively
comfortable mode of life at 18th-century
Liberty Hall. Most of the personal-use and
domestic items, buttons and eating
utensils for example, were imported rather
than locally fashioned, and they were
much more elegant in ornamentations than
items found at other “frontier” excavations.
The virtual absence of gun-related
artifacts, too, led the researchers to
conclude that the sterotype of
frontiersmen having constantly to defend
themselves against attacks from savage
bands of marauding Indians was largely a
figment of romantic imagination.

The dig has been essentially
concluded, and the analysis of data and
supporting documentary research have
been completed. Dr. McDaniel and some

of his students have written a scholarly
monograph, Liberty Hall Academy: The
Early History of the Institutions Which
Evolved Into Washington and Lee
University, being published this summer
by W&L’s “Liberty Hall Press” to mark
the 200th anniversary of the Academy’s
move from Timber Ridge to its site on
Mulberry Hill where the familiar ruins
now stand.

The 72-page paperbound book will be
available from the W&L Bookstore for $1
postpaid. This article is excerpted from
two sections of the monograph, “The
Archaeological Data and Campus Life” and
“Mulberry Hill and Cultural Change.”

New Interpretations

The data resulting from the Liberty
Hall excavation have led to new
interpretations which contrast vividly with
the themes of isolation, harshness, crudity
and danger that dominate traditional
histories.

Our analysis indicates that many of the
implements used at Liberty Hall were
imported. We have ceramics from England
and China, gunflints from France, pipes
from Holland, coins from South America,
and metal buttons from England, to name
several examples. In a 757-square-foot area
immediately outside the Liberty Hall
building itself, we uncovered 4,492
ceramic shards. Ninety-nine percent of the
pieces were of non-domestic origin. All
our data support the hypothesis that
economic and cultural isolation did not
prevail. On the contrary, it is evident that
there was ready access at Liberty Hall to
imported goods. The evidence
demonstrates that the perception of a
predominantly self-sufficient economy at
the western “frontier” in which the only
goods were homespun is fallacious—at
least when applied to Liberty Hall.

Not only was there routine access to
imported wares; they reached Mulberry
Hill from seaports in a relatively short
period of time—only weeks or, at most,
several months, as we discovered through
application of sophisticated dating
techniques to 4,198 ceramic shards.

Their reliance on imported
commodities should not be interpreted,
however, as an indication that the Scotch-
Irish at Liberty Hall lacked industrial
capabilities themselves. The brick kiln
discovered near the ruins is testimony to
the technological skills of members of the
community; the precision with which the
locally quarried limestone was worked
indicates the talent they developed in a
related field. From the cultural
perspective, the significant point is that

the Liberty Hall population included
capable and imaginative craftsmen. This
inventory of skills contradicts the
stereotype of the limited range of talents
possessed by the “rough, crude” Scotch-
Irish settlers.

Widely accepted is the view that the
Scotch-Irish had little interest in, or
appreciation of, aesthetics. Our
archaeological data, however, suggest
strongly that this notion is at least an
exaggeration and is probably false. It is
apparent that aesthetic considerations
were important in the choice of many
commodities. The buttons discovered at
the site offer a good example. We found
simple buttons of bone and wood—but
they are far outnumbered by highly
decorated English metal alloy buttons. The
quality and refined designs of ceramics and
flatware provide evidence of concern for
an attractive table. Function was not
sacrificed to elegance, but in many cases a
decorated piece was chosen when a plain
item would have been equally useful.
Many decorations on pieces found at
Liberty Hall bear intricate patterns.

In considering the question of the
extent to which the situation at Liberty
Hall was dangerous, it is instructive to
examine the artifacts excavated at forts
known to have been in high-risk areas. To
note a few examples, the Fort Priuce
George site in South Carolina produced
393 balls, shot, and sprue, 40 gunflints and
spalls, and 38 gun parts; even more
impressive are the 1,820 arms-related
artifacts excavated at Fort Ligonier in
Pennsylvania. At Liberty Hall, the
inventory of arms-related artifacts consists

|

Structure Nine

Structure Two

—To U.S. Rt. 60

 

Dr. John M. McDaniel ( right) explains early phases of the dig to a visitor.

of 17 gunflints, three lead shot, and one
gun part. Even that comparatively modest
total of 21 artifacts should be examined in
the context of the fact that most of the
gunflints were found in, or just outside,
the main academic building, in which
laboratory equipment was maintained; it is
possible that these flints may have been
used not on firearms but rather in
connection with laboratory apparatus.

The variety of artifacts of items used for
domestic purposes helps make a good case
for the assertion that Liberty Hall was not
in a high-risk area; such areas usually lack
these commodities in any abundance.

The excavation of academic tools—
writing slates, styluses, and ceramic
inkwells, to name some examples—has

Structure
One

Athletic Field

 

Site of Current
Archaeological Investigations:
Liberty Hall Academy,
Washington & Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

Site plan showing the locations of the nine structures discovered.

increased our knowledge of the nature of
instruction at Liberty Hall by providing
useful clues about pedagogical techniques.
The written record does not often provide
such information, and one of our goals,
therefore, has been to use artifacts to help
determine with greater accuracy what was
taught—and how. The discovery of a fine
vernier scale, part of a larger surveying
implement, for instance, indicates that
sophisticated equipment was employed in
teaching surveying techniques.

The nature of the artifacts excavated at
Liberty Hall suggests that the community
there was relatively affluent. Bills and
inventories demonstrate that many of the
most popular imported commodities
purchased at Liberty Hall were
comparatively expensive. It is evident that
by 1782 the population at Liberty Hall
included a substantial number of members
who were capable of spending
considerable sums on expensive goods.

The archaeological data provide
numerous insights into life on Mulberry
Hill between 1779 and 1803. We can now
state with confidence that the Mulberry
Hill school was neither economically and
culturally isolated nor defined by a crude,
harsh, dangerous style of life. On the
contrary, it was a secure center of learning
whose members had relatively easy access
to goods and to news. Moreover, the
archaeological data provide important
evidence of the interests, capabilities,
worldliness and economic activities which
characterized the Scotch-Irish who studied
and taught at Liberty Hall.

Our investigations indicate that in at
least one respect, the traditional picture of
the culture of the eighteenth-century
Scotch-Irish American living west of the
Blue Ridge demands re-interpretation.

13

By Rupert N. Latture

Special Assistant to the President

W&LS MISSIONARIES

60 Alumni Have Served Abroad as Teachers, Doctors, and Evangelists

Washington and Lee has been well
represented by her alumni more than a
century in the field of foreign missions.
The University’s records show that 60
W&L men have served overseas as
missionaries in a number of countries.

More than half the W&L missionaries,
31 of 60, worked in China as teachers,
doctors and evangelists. Fifteen others
went to Japan, Korea, the Philippines, and
other Far East countries; five went to the
Belgian Congo (Zaire); two went to Brazil,
and two to Greece.

The majority of the missionaries, 53,
were Presbyterians. Six were
Episcopalians, and one was Methodist.

Fifteen of the 60 were from Lexington
or Rockbridge County.

The first Washington College
missionary was George William Leyburn
of Lexington, a member of the class of
1827. He and his wife went to Greece to
join friends there, and were stationed on
the island of Scio off the coast of Asia
Minor. They conducted an elementary

lI
Alumni Who Have Served
As Missionaries Abroad

George William Leyburn
(Lexington, Va.), 1827, Greece

Matthew Hale Houston
(Wheeling, W. Va.), BA, DD, 1858, China

George L. Leyburn
(Bedford, Va.), BA, 1859, Greece

David L. Anderson
(Atlanta, Ga.), 1868, China

R. Baxter Fishburne
(Waynesboro, Va.), BA, 1869, China

Absalom Sydenstricker
(Lewisburg, W. Va.), BA, DD, 1878, China

Daniel Penick Junkin
(Rockbridge Co., Va.), BA, BD, DD,
1881, Japan
James Edwin Bear
(Augusta Co., Va.), BA, BD, 1883, China

Cyrus Givens Brown
(Rockbridge Co., Va.), BD, 1885, Japan

14

school as a means of attracting interest in
their Christian message. The Leyburns
reported back to the Lexington Presbytery
that the Greek children took a
considerable interest in the school—but
not in the Protestant religion. The Greek
people, they said, held fast to their
Orthodox doctrine and form of worship.
Absalom Sydenstricker, an 1878
graduate, served in China; his daughter
was Pearl Buck, the author of many books
of fiction, including The Good Earth,
about that land. William McCutchan
Morrison, 87, achieved international
recognition for two important
accomplishments—his extraordinary
courage in exposing the notorious Belgian
atrocities committed by Congo rulers to
wrest ivory and rubber from the natives,
and his translation of the Scriptures into
the native tongue of the Congolese.
William McElwee Miller, ’12, asked
for a difficult assignment—and received it.
He spent 40 years in Iran, striving
zealously to make an impression on the

 

 

William McCutchan Morrison
(Rockbridge Co., Va.), BA, DD,
1887, Congo

William McCown Thompson
(Rockbridge Co., Va.), DD, 1887, Brazil

Brown Craig Patterson
(Augusta Co., Va.), BA, DD, 1887, China

John William Moore
(Rockbridge County), MD, 1889, China

Hugh Watt White
(Winchester, Va.), DD, 1889, China

Carlyle Ramsey Womeldorf
(Lexington, Va.), 1891, Brazil

John Mercer Blain
(Christiansburg, Va.), AB, BD, DD,
1893, China

Harry White Myers
(Lexington, Va.), BA, MA, DD, 1893, Japan

Andrew Henry Woods
(Martinsburg, W. Va.), BA, MD,
1893, China

Alex Miller Earle
(Milldale, Va.), BA, 1894, Korea

Muslims.

It was approximately a hundred years
ago that the appeal to carry the Gospel to
the ends of the earth swept through the
churches of the United States and Great
Britain. The Student Volunteer Movement
in American colleges and universities
became an important part of the call to
mission; students at Washington and Lee
during the 1913-14 session will never
forget the “Mott Campaign” which
brought Dr. John R. Mott and his
powerful appeal to the campus for several
addresses. Francis Pickens Miller, Ted
Schultz and Frank Johnson Gilliam were
the student leaders of the campaign.

The last name on the list is that of
David Richard Hunter, who was graduated
from Washington and Lee exactly a
century and a half after George W.
Leyburn and, like him, was a Lexington
native. David Hunter is serving in the
Mediterranean port cities, not far from the
Greek island where the Leyburns began
their preaching and teaching so long ago.

 

Benjamin Lucius Ancell
(Fork Union, Va.), MA, DD, PhD,
1895, China

Charles Jacob Boppel
(Philadelphia, Pa.), BA, BD, 1895, Congo

Randolph Tucker Shields

(Lexington, Va.), BA, MD, 1898, China
James McClung Sieg

(Hightown, Va.), BD, 1901, Congo
Henry Blair Graybill

(Lewisburg, W. Va.), BA, MA, 1902, China

John Monro Banister Gill
(Petersburg, Va.), BD, 1903, China

Frederic Charles Meredith
(Winchester, Mass.), BA, 1903, Philippines

Lyle Moore Moffett
(Brookwood, Va.), BA, 1904, China

Myron Barraud Marshall
(Portsmouth, Va.), 1904, Philippines

Oscar Vance Armstrong
(Beverly, W. Va.), BA, DD, 1905, China

Thomas Dwight Sloan
(Alderson, W. Va.), MD, 1905, China

George William Leyburn

 

Lloyd Rutherford C raighill

Donald William MacCluer
(Springfield, Ohio), BA, DD, 1907, Siam

James Nelson Montgomery
(Birmingham, Ala.), BA, DD, BD,
1910, China

L. Nelson Bell
(Waynesboro, Va.), MD, LLD, 1911, China

Lloyd Rutherford Craighill
(Lynchburg, Va.), BA, DD, 1912, China

William McElwee Miller
(Rockbridge Co., Va.), BA, MA, DD,
1912, Iran

Charles Ghiselin, Jr.
(Shepherdstown, W. Va.), BA, MA, BD,
1912, China

Edwin Wheeler Buckingham
(Lynchburg, Va.), BA, MD, 1914, China

George Lorraine Kerns
(Charleston, W. Va.), BA, BD, 1914, India

John Edwin Wayland
(Waynesboro, Va.), BA, BD, ThM,
1914, China

Daniel Crump Buchanan
(Japan), MA, BD, PhD, ThM, 1914, Japan

 

 

Absalom Sydenstricker

 

 

William McElwee Miller

Francis Pickens Miller
(Rockbridge Co., Va.), BA, MA, 1914,
International
(Chairman World Student Christian
Federation)

James Edwin Bear, Jr.
(China), MA, BD, DD, 1915, China
Frank Johnson Gilliam
(Lynchburg, Va.), BA, MA, LHD,
1917, Congo

George Raymond Womeldorf
(Rockbridge Co., Va.), BA, BD, 1917, China

James Lewis Howe, Jr.
(Lexington, Va.), BA, MA, 1918, China

Louis Armistead McMurray
(Woodstock, Va.), BA, BD, DD, 1919, Congo

Joe Bunger Livesay
(Waynesboro, Va.), BA, MA, ThB,
1919, Korea

Craig Houston Patterson
(China), BA, BD, DD, 1919, China

Andrew Tod Roy
(Pittsburgh, Pa.), BA, LLD, 1925, China

Alexander Stuart Moffett

 

 

William McCutchan Morrison

 

Frank Johnson Gilliam

(China), BA, MD, 1927, China
John Walker Vinson Jr.
(China), BA, BD, 1936, China
Thomas Chalmers Vinson
(China), BA, MD, 1936, China
Herbert Petrie Mitchell
(Martinsville, Va.), BA, 1948, Korea
Robert Glasgow Patterson
(China) (Visiting Professor in
Tunghai University) BA, BD, PhD, 1948,
Hong Kong

James Tyler Magruder
(Bethesda, Md.), BA, BD, 1949, Japan

William Sims Metzer

(Bethesda, Md.), BA, BD, ThM, 1950, Congo
William Richard Goodman Jr.

(Rockbridge Co.), BA, PhD, 1958, Iran
Philip William Turner III

(Washington, D. C.), BA, BD, 1958, Uganda

John Malcolm Brownlee
(Rockbridge Baths, Va.), BA, BD, 1961,
Indonesia

David Richard Hunter
(Lexington, Va.), BA, 1977, Turkey

15

 

by Jeffrey L. M. Hazel, ’77

GENERAL LEE'S CLOCK

Alumnus Offers Measured Drawings of Heirloom; Sales to Benefit W&L

Timepieces all work on the same
principle, counting the number of times
some extremely regular event takes place.
In a grandfather clock, it’s the swing of a
pendulum; in an Accutron, the vibrations
of a tuning fork; in a Quartz watch, the
natural electronic frequency of a crystal.
Atomic clocks count the electronic
resonances of atoms excited by radiation.

To some people, all of this is
inconsequential, because, to them, there is
no such thing as time. These people—you
surely know a few—are likely to be late to
their own funerals and are always late for
the premier of a television program or
movie and pester friends with questions
about what happened before their arrival,
diverting your attention from what has
occured since they arrived.

Yet, there are people—myself
included—who are committed to time. We
believe that time is the only thing there is.
We thus busy ourselves with the riddle,
how best to kill it?

E. Carlyle Lynch of Broadway, Va., a
1932 graduate of Washington and Lee
University, has an answer, and a
challenge, for those who are slaves to
killing time—build a replica of the cabinet
of General Lee’s Clock.

Lynch, a well-known drafter of plans of
antique furniture for school-shop
instruction and home-workshop craftsmen,
has included the Lee Clock in his one-
piece furniture plans currently on the
market.

Handmade from mahogany by
Benjamin Chandlee in 1730, the Lee
Clock is part of the furnishings in the
President's House, which was built on the
southeast side of the University’s front
campus during the time that Lee was
president of Washington College.

Lynch, former instructor at
Washington and Lee, taught courses in
mechanical drawing in W&L’s department
of engineering in 1942 and was
superintendent of buildings and grounds
until 1947. He is offering the proceeds
from the sale of these Lee Clock cabinet
plans to his alma mater. (Please note
information on price and ordering
instructions which accompany this article. )

The plans—which, by the way, make
attractive posters, for those with unskilled

16

 

   

= a

hands—are being printed by Woodcraft
Supply Corporation in Woburn, Mass. The
president of the company is another
Washington and Lee graduate, Rodgers G.
Welles, ’48. In addition to sales through
the mail, the plans are being offered for
sale in Lee Chapel.

Lynch, a minister’s son, studied
mechanical drawing and drafting in
Washington and Lee’s department of
engineering, but majored in English. He
now says his studies in engineering were
the most “thrilling part of my college
career.

He says he has always worked with his
hands. He worked his way through
Washington and Lee by attending the
furnaces at many of the University’s
fraternity houses, and he recalls his father
once saying to him, “You'll work with
them all of your life, ‘cause your head ain’t
big enough to do it.” (Lynch was later, in
1938, to found the industrial arts
department at Lexington High School.)

Lynch’s interest in antique furniture
and his desire to preserve the art of the
craftsman resulted in a compilation of his
measured drawings into a book, Furniture
Antiques Found in Virginia, published in
1954 and reprinted a number of times until
1974. Many of his one-piece furniture

E. Carlyle Lynch, ’32, is shown with Lee Clock and his measured drawing of it.

  

plans of furnishings found in Sturbridge,
Mass., which he calls the “Williamsburg”
of that state, are currently being
published.

In addition, he has designed furniture
for the Virginia Craftsmen in
Harrisonburg, designed furnishings for the
DuPont Hotel in Wilmington, Del., and
has taught industrial arts in Broadway,
Va., high school, a position from which he
retired in 1971.

In the movie Dark Victory, Bette
Davis lamented about time—she didn’t
have much left—while Vera Van sang,
with irony, in the background, “Oh give
me time...... ”

In a sense, Lynch is giving time to
Washington and Lee. His drawings of the
Lee Clock—along with his drawings of
antique furniture everywhere—will help to
preserve that bit of time which always
seems to mean the most to us: the past.

 

The measured drawings of the Lee
Clock may be obtained by sending
your order to E. Carlyle Lynch, Rt. 1,
Box 404, Broadway, Va. 22815. The
drawings are $8 each. Make checks
payable to Washington and Lee
University.

 

 

 

| A 4HOOD BASE
OETA.
Na
N

 

1978-79 ANNUAL FUND

Donations Near $1 Million as Average Gift Reaches All-Time High of $170

The 1978-79 Annual Fund reached an
all-time high of $977,333 in gifts from
alumni, parents and friends—$174,894
more than last year’s record-setting total of
$802,439. The average gift also hit an all-
time high of $170, up from last year’s
record high of $142. The number of donors
rose from 5,692 last year to 5,788.

Leadership for the 1978-79 Annual
Fund was provided by C. Royce Hough,
°*59A, Annual Fund chairman and
Academic Alumni chairman. Assisting him
were William F. Ford, ’61L, Law Alumni
chairman; John H. Van Amburgh, Current
Parents chairman; W. Martin Kempe, Past
Parents chairman; and Everett Tucker Jr.,

 

 

Robert E. Lee Associates chairman.

The 1978-79 Annual Fund covered 8
percent of the University’s educational and
general budget. In 1978-79, 309 alumni,
parents and friends contributed at the Lee
Associates level ($1,000 or more), 62 more
than last year, and 2,163 at the Colonnade
Club level ($100-999), 290 more than last
year. Although Lee Associates and
Colonnade Club givers comprised only 42
percent of the donors, their contributions
amounted to 89 percent of the Fund.

This year, three reunion classes
achieved particularly outstanding results.

The Class of 1949 Academic and Law
contributed more than two-and-a-half

Student Phonathon participants who this year raised $25,505 in pledges compared with $19,678 last
year. In all, 31 students took part in the effort.

REPORT OF THE ANNUAL FUND

June 30, 1979

Donors Dollars

Alumni 78-79 5,276 $882,673
77-78 5,246 $720,484

Parents 78-79 452 $ 91,328
77-78 408 $ 81,955

Friends 78-79 60 $ 10,202
77-78 38 $ 7,085

Totals 78-79 5,788 $984,203
77-78 5,692 $809,524

Unpaid Pledges 78-79: $6,870
18

 

times as much as last year; $53,481 this
year, compared to $20,476 last year.

The Class of 1954 Academic and Law
contributed more than twice as much as
last year; $53,924 this year, compared to
$24,346 last year.

The Class of 1929 Academic and Law
not only nearly doubled its gift of last
year—$14,888 this year, compared to
$8,355 last year—but also presented the
University with a capital commitment of
$50,000.

Overall, the Fund showed an increase
of 22 percent over last year in dollars,
despite an increase of only 2 percent in the
number of donors.

 

during 1978-79 Phonathon, which raised $43,053
in pledges.

CURRENT PARENTS—J. H. Van Amburgh, Chairman %

Area Area Chairman Donors Dollars Part.

% Avg. I P. D. Marella 60 $ 5,384 32.3

in Cif lL. J. Siana 28 2,956 17.3

ie sey ll T. J. Black 42 4,903 27.8

36.6 $ 137 IV C. C. McGehee 37 6,959 18.5

V F. W. Rogers, Jr. 15 1,890 11.5

23.4 $ 202 VI C. H. Hamilton 46 6,660 22.8

21.5 $ 201 Vil W. K. Christovich 30 9,035 27.8

_ $ 170 VIII _-P. W. Pigue 28 5,915 27.2

= $ 186 IX J. M. Shaver, Jr. 35 6,530 32.4

X Foreign/At Large 1 4,000 12.5

35.1 $ 170 Total 322 $54,232 23.8

35.1 $ 142 ;

PAST PARENTS—W. M. Kempe, Chairman

W. M. Kempe 130 $37,096 22.5

 

THE ANNUAL FUND BY CLASSES—1978-79

ACADEMIC CLASSES—Royce Hough, Chairman

Class Class Agent

All Other W. C. Washburn 22
10A J. R. Blackburn 2
14A A. W. McCain z
15A R. N. Latture 12
16A E. B. Shultz 6
17A_—W.« J. Cox 13
18A A. Beall, Jr. 12
20A J. G. Evins 15
21A S. L. Raines 8
22A V. E. Kemp 17
23A W. T. Kilmon 26
24A R. M. Jenkins 29
TOTAL 169
GROUP II-A—H. G. Jahncke, Vice Chairman
25A E. T. Andrews 27
26A T. T. Moore 36
27A R. S. Barnett 34
28A W. C. Norman 45
29A T. G. Gibson 52
30A E. T. Jones 93
31A S. Sanders II 56
32A E.. P. Martin, Jr. 67
— TOTAL 410
GROUP III-A—J. E. Neill, Vice Chairman
33A C. J. Longacre 56
34A S. Mosovich 70
35A K. P. Willard 52
36A G. W. Harrison 61
37A D. R. Moore 65
388A \E. Williams 88
39A ‘H. P. Avery ; 84
TOTAL 1° AT
GROUP IV-A—R. G. Browning, Vice Chairman
40A T. E. Bruce, Jr. 4 85
41A R. M. Jeter, Jr. 72
42A N. H. Brower 81
43AKL J. F. Ellis, Jr. 70
44A&L G. T. Wood v7
A5A&XL C. C. Stieff II ol
46A&L D. S. Hillman 42
ATA&L W. G. Merrin 25
48A H. R. Gates 24
49A E. S. Epley 107
TOTAL 634
GROUP V-A—R. S. Griffith, Vice Chairman
50A R. U. Goodman 88
O1A E. E. Freeman, Jr. 93
52A E. F. Schaeffer, Jr. 91
533A J. W. McClintock III 85
354A F. A. Parsons 113
SoA W. C. Jones III 44
56A W. H. Houston III 74
O7A S. M. Ehudin 87
58A V. W. Holleman, Jr. 88
59A C. D. Hurt, Jr. 103
TOTAL 866
GROUP VI-A—R. C. Vaughan III, Vice Chairman
60A L. B. Allen III 73
61A J. H. Allen, Jr. 89
62A P. A. Agelasto III 94
63A G. M. Tilman 113
64A W. A. Noell, Jr. 113
65A J. H. DeJarnette 85
66A J. D. Humphries III 75
67A J. G. B. Ewing ITI 97
68A C. H. Capito 93
69A J. E. Brows 95
TOTAL 927
GROUP VII-A—R. D. LaRue, Vice Chairman
70A J. A. Meriwether 102

Donors
GROUP I-A—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman

Dollars

$ 11,261
1,694
721
5,715
810
3,350
3,091
2,870
510
4,315
3,560
13,773

$ 51,670

$ 6,758
11,368
4,688
18,836
14,563
13,047
16,298
5,347

$ 90,905

$ 11,894
12,792

4,985
14,045
12,820
24,930
16,012
97,478

RA

$ 56,609
8,430
18,738
14,819
13,219
12,635
6,642
3,842
7,411
47,651
$190,006

$ 15,998
16,927
15,614
14,175
51,424

9,565
10,499
8,544
20,679
15,878
$179,303

$ 12,960
12,618
12,876
12,708
11,074

8,564
5,992
12,188
9,555
6,160
$104,695

$ 10,035

%
Part.

31.0
40.0
33.3
60.0
39.3
76.5
40.0
42.9
42.1
40.5
41.9
34.1
39.9

31.0
39.6
33.0
47.4
42.3
78.8
38.6
47.5
45.3

40.3
45.8
38.0
39.9
36.9
55.7
39.3
42.1

52.5
35.0
41.1
34.1
44.3
30.2
31.3
36.8

28.9 |

50.4
40.5

28.5
39.6
39.4
37.8
50.9
22.1
31.2
40.7
36.7
46.4
37.1

30.0
38.7
34.8
39.2

SF

30.9
23.9
33.6
30.5
29.7
32.8

29.5

 

T1A H. Nottberg III 106
72A G. M. Azuma 101
73A G. A. Frierson II 96
74A C. R. Fletcher 97
TSA J. V. Baird 105
76A K. P. Ruscio 99
7T7A E. T. Atwood 139
78A J. L. Bruch TI 95
TOTAL 940

LAW CLASSES—W. F. Ford, Chairman

Class Class Agent

GROUP I-L—W. C. Washburn, Vice Chairman

All Other W. C. Washburn 15
21L J. E. Moyler

221, G. W. Taliaferro

23L W. W. Ogden

241, C. A. Tutwiler

25], W. A. McRitchie

26L R. O. Bentley, Jr.

27L C. T. Smith

TOTAL 4

GROUP II-L—R. D. Bailey, Vice Chairman

Go COM * # Ot OCLC

29L S. C. Strite 3
30L L. H. Davis 7
31L M. M. Weinberg 7
32L J. D. Sparks, Jr. 11
33L F. R. Bigham 12
34L T. Jones 10
35L W. L. Wilson ?
36L C. B. Cross, Jr. 4
37L J. L. Amold 12
38L S. A. Martin 11
39L J. D. Goodin 19
40L O. B. McEwan 10
41L No Agent 12
421, C. F. Bagley, Jr. 9
TOTAL 134
GROUP III-L—M. T. Herndon, Vice Chairman
48L C. R. Allen 35
49T, J. B. Porterfield, Jr. 31
50L W. J. Ledbetter 28
51L J. D. Shannon 27
52L J. C. Reed 20
53L R. L. Banse 12
54L D. R. Klenk 19
55L _iR. W. Hudgins 10
56L C. L. Forbes 8
57L O. P. Pollard 18
58L N. C. Roettger 9
o9L O. A. Neff 13
TOTAL 230
GROUP IV-L—H. Angel, Vice Chairman

60L I. N. Smith, Jr. 16
61L H. M. Bates 17
62L J. M. Spivey III 10
63L T. G. Ireland 6
64L R. L. Lawrence 15
65L L. G. Griffiths, Jr. 16
66L C. G. Johnson 21
67L W. R. Reynolds 20
68L  M.L. Lowry 26
69L D. D. Redmond 29
TOTAL 176
GROUP V-L-J. S. Kline, Vice Chairman
70L R. A. Vinyard 25
71L W. J. Borda 20
Th H. L. Handley III 28
73L J. C. Moore 44
74L J. R. Broadway 33
75L C. J. Habenicht 32
76L F. L. Duemmler 30
77L R. L. Hewit 29
78L D. Swope 24
TOTAL 265

Donors

8,081
7,745
5,141
3,764
5,014
3,725
5,718
2,080
$ 51,803

Dollars

$ 4,970
375

410
2,255
1,625
1,265
200

605

$ 11,705

$ 325
1,100
5,262
2,835
1,205
10,775
2,875
235
3,075
1,985
1,820
5,266
3,275
825

$ 40,858

$ 5,189
5,830
3,298
3,090
3,906
1,185
2,500

920
1,325
4,415
2,010
1,790

$ 35,458

$ 1,626
4,410
545

390

925

850
1,890
2,505
2,702
1,335

$ 17,138

$ 2,311
1,308
1,298
1,530
1,960
1,309

860
600
458
$ 11,634

32.4
29.6
26.0
25.8
29.9
25.3
37.3
24.3
28.8

%
Part.

22.7
62.5
100.0
50.0
36.4
50.0
40.0
66.7
38.4

25.0
53.8
90.0
59.0
70.6
58.8
50.0
30.8
63.2
61.1
61.3
50.0
42.9
28.1
50.0

47.9
44.3
60.9
36.5
39.2
35.3
70.4
27.8
34.8
58.1
33.3
38.2
43.7

43.2
42.5
25.6
16.7
30.0
34.8
42.0
34.5
30.1
39.7
35.0

49.0
34.5
39.4
44.0
37.5
39.5
38.5
35.4
30.0
38.5

19

CHAPTER NEWS

 

CHARLESTON—At reception are Andrew Eugene Geer III, 83; Dr. A.
Bert Pruitt Jr., 56; J. G. Blaine Ewing III, 67, who helped make the
arrangements, and T. Patton Adams IV, ’65.

 

is his wife Celeste.

CHARLESTON. A large group of
alumni, many accompanied by their wives
or dates and other guests, attended a
black-tie reception at the Mills Hyatt
House in Charleston on May 17 in
connection with the opening at the Gibbes
Art Gallery of a combined exhibition of the
University s Reeves Collection of Chinese
Export Porcelain and the paintings of
Louise Herreshoff. The event came a few
days before the beginning of Charleston’s
annual Spoleto Festival U.S.A. James W.
Whitehead, University treasurer and
curator of the Reeves and Herreshoff
collections, lectured at the museum about
the exhibit and also spoke briefly to the
alumni at the reception about the 1967 gift
that brought the famed collections to
Washington and Lee. After the reception,
the W&L group walked a half block to the
Gibbes Gallery, where they joined a large
group of museum members and patrons at
the exhibit opening. The collections have
special interest for South Carolinians since
Euchlin Reeves, ’27, who with his wife

20

   

CHARLESTON—James W. Whitehead, curator of the Reeves porcelain
and Herreshoff paintings, addresses alumni at the reception. At the table

 

 

Louise Herreshoff Reeves assembled the
porcelain, was born and reared in the
Palmetto State. Special guests were
members of the Reeves family, including
W. R. Reeves of Columbia, Euchlin
Reeves’s surviving brother, and his wife.
Whitehead developed both collections
after the Reeveses gave them to the
University; he brought to the attention of
the art world the splendid paintings of
Louise Herreshoff and is an expert in the
field of 18th-century Chinese export
porcelain. He was accompanied to the
exhibit by his wife Celeste, who has
collaborated with him in the development
of the collections. Arrangements for the
W&L gathering were made by J. G. Blaine
Ewing III, 67, and John Hollister, 58, a
development staff associate, who was
accompanied by his wife. Also
representing the University were Farris P.
Hotchkiss, director of development, and

CHARLESTON—At the Gibbes Gallery are Rutherford P. C. Smith, ’68,
‘74L, his date, and A. Lee Shapleigh LI, ’66, and his wife.

 

 

CHARLESTON—James W. Whitehead welcomes W. R. Reeves, brother of
Euchlin Reeves, and his wife at the Mills Hyatt House reception.

 

his wife; Leroy C. Atkins, 68, assistant
alumni secretary, and his wife; and
Romulus T. Weatherman, director of
publications, and his wife. The exhibit at
the Gibbes Gallery was the fourth
combined showing of the
Reeves/Herreshoff collections. Previous
exhibits were at Museums of Arts and
Science in Columbia, at the Henry
Morrison Flagler Museum in Palm Beach,
and at the Cummer Gallery in
Jacksonville.

SOUTHERN OHIO. Chapter members
and guests gathered for cocktails and
dinner at the Cincinnati Country Club on
June 19. Arrangements for the dinner
were made by Robert W. Hilton, 39, and
Mrs. Hilton. Thomas P. Winbourne, ’51,
chapter president, presided over a
meeting which followed the meal. Special
guests of the chapter were President
Robert E. R. Huntley and Mrs. Huntley,
Milburn K. Noell, 51, staff associate from

 

 

are in the background.

a PAR % Bc ae

 

and Jay Wetsel, ’70.

Memphis, and Mrs. Noell, and W. C.

Washburn, '40, alumni secretary, and Mrs.

Washburn. Also in attendance was Pete
Williams, 79, who is working this year on
the University’s admissions staff. Dr.
James Priest, ‘43, former president of the
Alumni Association, presented the
chapter's officers for next year—Smith
(Skip) Hickenlooper III, 64, was elected
president and Paul Hunt, ’70, vice
president. President Huntley spoke about
Washington and Lee’s involvement in the
contemporary educational scene.

WINCHESTER. A cocktail party was
given at the home of Dr. William H. Pifer
‘47, on June 2 for alumni from the
Winchester, Berryville, Front Royal area.
Farris P. Hotchkiss, director of
development, attended the event and
discussed with the alumni the University’s
undergraduate admissions program and

>

CHARLESTON—Alumni and Gibbes Gallery patrons are absorbed in
examining pieces from the Reeves porcelain collection. Herreshoff paintings

   

WINCHESTER—At the gathering at the home of Dr. William H. Pifer, ’47,
are Tom Holden, 67, his wife Gina; David Andre, '64, 67L, his wife Shirley,

 

$

  
    

   

MID-SOUTH—Among the guests at the Pig Roast were Mrs. Jerome Turner,
Jody Brown, ’65; representatives of other Virginia colleges, and Jerome

  

WINCHESTER—Director of Development Farris P. Hotchkiss, ’58, (center
makes informal talk to alumni on the development campaign and the
admissions program.

 

Turner, 64, 66L, (extreme right).

the progress of the development
campaign. William C. Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary, also attended.
Arrangements for the gathering were made
by Mrs. Pifer, Jay Denny, ’73, John (Jay)
Wetzel Jr., "70, and Richard W. Pifer, 72.
(The alumni expressed considerable
interest in the formation of an organized
chapter of the Association, suggesting it be
named the Shenandoah Chapter. Jay
Denny was named president pro-tem. )

CLEVELAND. Chapter members
attended a meeting at the Union Club in
Cleveland on June 18. Arrangements for
the event, which included a cocktail and
dinner program, were made by Sid
Kaplan, 56, chapter president. Special
guests of the chapter were President
Robert E. R. Huntley and Mrs. Huntley,
Milburn K. Noell, 51, staff associate from
Memphis, and Mrs. Noell, and W. C.
Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary, and Mrs.
Washburn. President Huntley spoke to the
gathering about the predicament of

 

education in America today and
Washington and Lee’s role in relation to
that. He also praised the chapter members
for their outstanding support to the
University over the years. Also in
attendance were William P. Boardman,
‘63, 69L, president of the Alumni
Association, and Mrs. Boardman, and
Philip Brasfield, 56. A chapter meeting is
planned for late summer to welcome
incoming freshmen from the area.

MID-SOUTH. An “Old Dominion Pig
Roast’ took place on May 19 at the home
of Jerome Turner, 64, ’66L, at
Colliersville, just north of Memphis.
Alumni and alumnae of Hollins, Mary
Baldwin, Randolph Macon, Sweetbriar,
and W&L gathered for the event which
included volleyball matches, and
conversation accompanied by assorted
tunes from the Benny Goodman era to the
Bee Gees.

21

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$85.00 'f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$70.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight charges and delivery delays can often be minimized by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your name,
address, and telephone number.

 

 

22

1925

THE REV. HERMAN J. WOMELDORF, though re-
tired for more than six years, is serving as minister
to a Presbyterian church on Edisto Island, S.C.

1927

GEORGE W. SUMMERSON, president and general
manager of Abingdon Inns Corp. which operates
the Martha Washington Inn in Abingdon, Va., is
retiring Oct. 31, 1979. For the past 24 years Sum-
merson has been president of Abingdon Inns Corp.
and general manager of the Martha Washington
Inn. Summerson began his career in hotel man-
agement in 1929 as general auditor for the Robert
E. Lee Hotel in Winston-Salem, N.C. His subse-
quent managerships have included Washington
Duke Hotel in Durham, N.C., the General Shelby
Hotel and Hotel Bristol in Bristol, Va., and since
1956 manager of the Martha Washington Inn.
Among his professional activities he is a past presi-
dent of the Virginia Hotel Motel Association in
1948, the American Hotel Association 1949, and
the Virginia Travel Council 1951. He is a former
director and vice president of the Virginia State
Chamber of Commerce; past mayor and member
of the Bristol, Va., City Council; former mayor of
Abingdon, Va., and a former member of the Vir-
ginia Statewide Health Coordinating Council.
Among his many awards are VF W's Outstanding
Citizens Award of Bristol, the City of Bristol’s
Certificate of Recognition for dedicated public
service, the 1971 Virginia Motel Association’s Dis-
tinguished Service Award, the Virginia Bicen-
tennial Spruce-Up Campaign Award of 1976, and
the Certified Hotel Administrators Award by the
Educational Institute of American Hotel and Motel
Association.

1930

CHARLES VAN Horn has retired from B&O Rail-
road and Chessie System after 49 years of service,
the last 25 years of which he was in Washington as
assistant vice president and executive representa-
tive. He is now doing consulting work for a number
of private companies.

1932

Dr. EDWARD E. FERGUSON of Southwest Harbor,
Maine, is a director of the Maine Coast Memorial
Hospital.

JAMES S. POLLAK, author of The Golden Egg, a
best-seller book some years ago, is writing another
book. Pollak is also involved in the motion picture
business and resides in Sherman Oaks, Calif.

1933

R. B. ARMISTEAD, having retired four years ago,
continues to travel extensively in the U.S. and

Canada.

GEORGE H. STROUSE Jr. has retired after practic-
ing law in Norwich, Conn., for 45 years. He served

 

Lewis F. Powell Jr., 29, '31L, will be
honored with the American Bar Association
Gold Medal at the ABA’s annual meeting
this summer in Dallas.

Powell—a member of W&L’s Board of |
Trustees from 1961 to 1978—is the 44th
recipient of the award, given for “conspic-
uous and outstanding service to the cause

 

BAR ASSOCIATION HONORS POWELL

of American jurisprudence.”

Among previous recipients of the ABA
Medal was the late Ross L. Malone, '32L,
one of Powell’s fellow W&L board members
(from 1967 until his death in 1974), Rector
of the Board in 1973-74. Powell and Malone
were presidents of the American Bar
Association as well.

 

 

as clerk of the state Senate in 1943, as Deputy
Judge of Norwich Police Court 1951-55, and was
counsel for the town and several banks.

JOHN FRANCIS WATLINGTON JR., retired chairman
of the Board of Wachovia Bank and Trust Co. of
Winston-Salem, N.C., was presented the Award
of Merit by the Asheville (N.C.) School during the
School’s graduation exercises on May 26. The award
recognizes service to the School or to education in
North Carolina or the Southeast. Watlington is a
former trustee of the Asheville School (1966-69), a
former trustee of Union Theological Seminary,
and past chairman of the Board of Visitors of Bow-
man Gray School of Medicine. He is a director of
several regional and national corporations and past
president of the North Carolina Citizens
Association whose citation for distinguished citi-
zenship he received in 1978.

1936

Harry J. BREITHAUPT JR. has been named vice
president of law for the Association of American
Railroads, in Washington, D.C. He had been vice
president and general counsel of the association.

1937

PARKE ROUSE Jr. has published another historical
book, Endless Harbor—the history of!Newport
News. It is an updated edition of an earlier volume
by Rouse, first published in 1969 by the Newport
News Historical Committee. Rouse is the author
of at least 10 books chronicling Virginia's social and
historical past. He is the executive director of
Jamestown Foundation and the Virginia Indepen-
dent Bicentennial Council Fund.

1940

FRED SHELLABARGER was selected as this year’s
“Outstanding Professor” by the students of the
College of Environmental Design at the University
of Oklahoma where he teaches architecture. He
expects to retire in 1981 and has invested in a
condominium in Santa Fe.

1941

The Charlotte Observer recently recounted in a
feature article the World War II flight experiences
of HUGH ASHCROFT, president of Harris-Teeter
Corp. in Charlotte, N.C. One of his experiences
over Germany as pilot of the B-17 bomber, South-
ern Comfort, inspired the song “Comin In On A
Wing And A Prayer.”

THEODORE A. BRUINSMA of Los Angeles has been
appointed the 11th Dean of Loyola Law School.
Following graduation from W&L, Bruinsma re-
ceived a degree of industrial administration in fi-
nance and accounting from the Harvard Business
School in 1943 and later graduated from the Har-
vard Law School in 1948 where he was awarded
the Austin Fellowship for Scholastic Honors.
Bruinsma’s business and professional background
has included positions as president of Harvest In-

dustries Inc., a Los Angeles agribusiness firm from
1969-78, past executive vice president and presi-
dent of Lear Jet Industries Inc., of Wichita, Kan.,
between 1966-68, and executive vice president of
Packard Bell Electronics Corp., Los Angeles, in
1964-66. Prior to entering business Bruinsma
practiced law as senior attorney for the New York
firm of Whitman, Ransom & Coulson and was
general counsel for McCall Corp. of New York. He
has been active in various civic and political affairs
and is a former board member of the San Pedro
Peninsula YMCA, the South Bay Boy Scouts of
America and the Los Angeles Citizens Committee
for Rapid Transit. Bruinsma served as a lieutenant
commander in the U.S. Navy Reserve from 1943-
46 and 1950-51.

1941

JosEPH T. LYKEs Jr., chairman and chief
executive officer of Lykes Bros. Steamship
Co. Inc., has been named the 1979 recipient
of the AOTOS (Admiral of The Ocean Sea
Award). The award given annually since
1970 is for distinguished service to the
American maritime industry. Presentation
of the award will be at the annual celebration
to be held in September in the Grand Ball-
room of the Waldorf Astoria in New York.
The AOTOS Award was established by
United Seamen’s Service to honor those in
industry, government and labor who have
done the most to further the cause of U.S.
flag shipping.

 

 

 

 

WILLIAM L. SHANNON has received the Boy Scouts
of America’s District Award of Merit. A resident of
Shelbyville, Ky., Shannon was cited for his contri-
butions to scouting and the Metro United Way.
The award was presented by the Daniel Boone
District of the Louisville Area Council.

ROBERT N. (BoB) SWEENEY, after 13 years with
W. R. Grace & Co., has retired to Hilton Head
Island, S.C. He served with the Merchant Marines
during World War II, and also served three years
in the U.S. Army. He was employed by IBM in its
Federal Systems Division for 19 years.

1949

JAMEs C. (CAL) HANKS has been appointed man-
ager of technical coordination for the international
department of the Talon Division of Textron Inc.
at its headquarters in Meadville, Pa. Hanks will be
responsible for planning and directing transfer to
overseas operations of new products and techno-
logical processes. A division of Textron’s Consumer
Group, Talon is the nation’s largest zipper manu-
facturer.

BENJAMIN L. WESSON, formerly a counsel for sev-
eral government organizations in Washington,
D.C., has recently opened his office for the practice
of law in Huntsville, Ala. Wesson was the assistant
general counsel for the Federal National Mortgage

   

T. A. Bruinsma, ’41

Association, chief counsel for the Government Na-
tional Mortgage Association, and senior counsel
for the Department of Housing and Urban De-
velopment.

1950

RICHARD W. Hynson, CLU, of Washington,
D.C., has worked 25 years with the Home Life
Insurance Co. of New York. Hynson is associated
with the companys Washington, D.C., agency
and is a life and qualifying member of the life
insurance industry’s Million Dollar Round Table.
He has been a consistent qualifier for the com-
pany’s top sales honor groups and is a member of
the president’s council. In 1973 he was named to
the Home Life Hall of Fame.

Dr. GEORGE H. PIERSON JR. is a radiologist at
Moses H. Cone Hospital in Greensboro, N.C.

1951

RICHARD B. McCuBBIN, director ofthe history
curriculum at Casady School in Oklahoma City,
has been named the new headmaster. Prior to
joining the faculty at Casady, he was executive
vice president of McCubbin Hosiery Inc. of Okla-
homa City.

1953

Dr. CHARLES J. FRIEDLANDER is a counseling
psychologist on the staff of a school system in
Washington, D.C. He also is engaged in the private
practice of psychology.

LEONARD B. RANSON Jr. received his Ph.D. in
education from the University of Iowa in May
1979. He is dean of students at Mount Mercy
College in Cedar Rapids. Ranson also coached the
women’s basketball team to its second Iowa State
Small College Championship in the past three
years. The other year his Mount Mercy team

finished second.
1954

HASWELL M. FRANKLIN was chairman of the first
annual Lacrosse Hall of Fame high school tourna-
ment. Gilman School, where Franklin’s son, Joe,
is co-captain of the lacrosse team, placed first in
the tournament.

1956

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. A. MORGENSTERN, a
fifth child, a daughter, Katherine Ann, in February
1978. The family resides in Bexley, Ohio.

Dr. CHARLES E. Doss is practicing hemotology
and oncology in Louisville, Ky.

JOHN M. ELLIs, an employee of HAUS, the inter-
national architectural firm, writes that the firm has
withdrawn all interests from Iran and is focusing
its work within the United States. The firm
specializes in the design of housing and community
centers.

23

   

G. T. D. Ecker, ’61

Dr. HARRY T. TULLY JR., an anesthesiologist in
San Leandro, Calif. , is a certified scuba diver. He
is also a CPR (Cardio Pulmonary Resuscitation)
instructor. He and his wife, Lynn, have five chil-
dren.

1957

WILLIAM A. G. BOYLE is president of Bermuda
Sun Ltd. which publishes the weekend newspaper,
The Bermuda Sun. He was recently re-elected for
a three year term to the position of common coun-
cilor on the municipal governing body of the
corporation of Hamilton.

1959
MARRIAGE: DONALD WILLIAM SIGMUND and
Claire Wright Stanard on May 12, 1979, in Wash-
ington, D.C. Sigmund is president of the Fede-
rated Life Insurance Agency in Washington.

DaAvID W. MEESE, former senior vice president of
Mercantile Safe Deposit and Trust Co. of Balti-
more, Md., is now executive vice president of
Investment Counseling Division, Citizens &
Southern National Bank of Georgia. Dave and his
wife, Betty, have a 9-year-old son, David Jr., and
they reside in Atlanta, Ga.

1960

JOHN S. HOPEWELL will become an instructor in
U.S. History at the Collegiate School in Richmond,
Va., effective Sept. 1, 1979.

MARRIAGE: FLEMING KEEFE and Corinne Ouzts
on May 19, 1979, in St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.
The couple resides in Atlanta, Ga.

KENNETH S. BEALL JR., in addition to the practice
of law in Palm Beach, Fla., has become involved
with a group of researchers who have found the
wreck of the Spanish Galleon Conception, circa
1641, which sank off the coast of the Dominican
Republic.

JAMES B. CONE is founder and president of Coffee
& Tea, Ltd. Inc. of Wayzata, Minn. The firm has
branch operations in St. Paul and in Minneapolis
and retails freshly roasted coffee and a large selec-
tion of fine teas. His wife, Annette, assists him in
the operation.

CALVERT G. DE COLIGNY JR., formerly with Gulf
Trading and Transportation of Pittsburgh, Pa., is
now in the management of several coal mining and
coal related businesses. His base of operations is at
Johnston, Pa. He resides in Ligonier.

G. T. DUNLOP ECKER recently was named presi-
dent of Greater Southeast Community Hospital in
Washington, D.C. Ecker had assumed duties of
executive vice president of the hospital a year ago.
Prior to that, he was administrator for five years of

24

the community hospital which serves southeast
Washington, D.C., and southern Prince George
County. Ecker is also president of the board of
directors of the Maryland/Virginia/District of
Columbia Hospital Association. In addition to his
masters degree in hospital and health administra-
tion from the University of Iowa, Ecker also holds
law degrees from American University and Sam-
ford (Ala.) University. He has held administrative
posts at Washington Hospital Center, Montefiore
Hospital and Medical Center in New York City,
and the University of Alabama Hospitals and Clin-
ics in Birmingham.

JAMES K. RANDOLPH is proprietor of the Fairfield
Inn in Great Barrington, Mass.

Dr. DAVID SHENSA is in the private practice of
oral and Maxillo facial surgery in Pittsburgh. He is
also associate clinical professor at the University of
Pittsburgh School of Dental Medicine. He and his
wife have two children.

1962

PETER A. AGELASTO III, is associated with the
firm of Jett, Agelasto, Berkley, Furr & Price in
Norfolk.

I. REESE SMITH is president of Lynhaven Dredging
Co. in Virginia Beach, as well as president of Reese
Smith Associates, an investment and income pro-
perty consulting firm.

1963

KENNETH S. BEALL JR. (See 1961.)

JAMES K. RANDOLPH (See 1961.)

1964
ALFRED E. ECKES Jr. had his second book, The
United States and the Global Struggle for Min-
erals, published in June 1979 by the University of
Texas. A third book, A History of Presidential
Elections: From George Washington to Jimmy
Carter, of which Eckes is co-author, will be pub-

lished in October 1979 by Macmillan. Eckes is

adjunct associate professor of history at Ohio State
University and editorial page editor of the Colum-
bus Dispatch.

JouN D. McCoy has joined Wheat, First Securi-
ties Inc. in Durham, N.C., as a registered repre-
sentative. The firm specializes in financial services
and is a member of the principal stock exchanges.
McCoy was most recently the assistant director of
the corporate finance department of the National
Association of Securities Dealers. He is a current
member of the Institute of Chartered Financial
Analysts. He and his wife, Doris, have two chil-
dren.

GEORGE B. SPAULDING, who has been employed
by Informatics, an American management con-
sulting firm with offices in Copenhagen, Denmark,

   

J. A. B. Palmer, ’66

has accepted a position as chief consultant with a
Danish firm based in Copenhagen. Spaulding and
his wife, Inger, have two children and reside in
Hellerup, a suburb of Copenhagen.

1965

HAL S. (Skip) CHASE, a professor at Ball State
University in Muncie, Ind., has received a Ful-
bright lectureship for the 1979-80 school year to
Cameroon, West Africa.

1966

S. BIRNIE HARPER has been elected executive
vice president of finance for Mid-America Indus-
tries Inc. of Fort Smith, Ark. Harper’s responsi-
bilities will be primarily in financial areas, stock-
holder relations, and data processing.

JOHN A. B. PALMER has been named assistant
controller of Spring Mills Inc. He works at the
company s customer service center in Lancaster,
S.C. Employed by Spring since 1975, he also has
been the company’s director of financial accounting
and reporting. Palmer received his M.B.A. from
Emory University and worked as a staff accountant
with Arthur Andersen and Co. until 1975.

1967
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EDWARD B. ROBERTSON,
a son, Thomas Gordon, on May 26, 1979, in Co-
logne, Germany. Robertson is in market pricing
analysis for the parts operations of Ford of Europe.

NELSON J. ADAMS is producing documentary films,
the latest of which is a one-hour historical piece,
“Women Pilots at War,” to be shown on PBS in the
fall of 1979. He resides in Washington.

JOSEPH R. BuRKART has established J. R. Burkart
Associates with headquarters on Park Avenue in
New York City. The firm provides fund raising,
consulting and management services for non-
profit organizations.

CHARLES G. LEvy is vice president and account
supervisor for Warwick, Welsh and Miller Inc., an
advertising firm in New York. He was previously
product manager of Aim Toothpaste for Lever
Brothers. Levy resides in Great Neck, N.Y., with
his wife, Anita, and daughters, Lisa, 9, and Amy,

6.
1968

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. W. THOMAS INGOLD, a
son, Thomas Bradford Hutchison, on July 21,
1978. The family resides in Alexandria, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. E. R. (Skip) JACOBSEN III,
a daughter, Christine Anne, on April 27, 1979, in
Bethesda, Md. Jacobsen is executive vice presi-
dent of Sterling Textile Services in Washington.

JAMES W. BanrlIaA is manager of packaging machin-
ery sales for Atlantic Systems of Atlanta. He, his

wife and children, reside in Stone Mountain, Ga.

EDWARD L. BISHOP III is vice president and direc-
tor of arbitrage operations for Blyth Eastman Dillon
Inc. in New York. He resides in Flourtown, Pa.,
and is a fighter pilot in the Marine Air Reserve,
serving as an instructor in air warfare tactics.

M. RAy BRADFORD has opened an office for the
general practice of law in Bangor, Maine. He and
his wife, Marlo, have two children, Ryan, 4, and
Abigail, 2.

PEYTON M. ELLIOTT, a graduate student in
history at West Virginia University, has won the
Robert and Wynona Wilkins Award for his
scholastic achievement. He has a straight A aca-
demic record and has been a graduate assistant at
WVU for three years. Elliott already holds his
master’s degree from West Virginia.

HENRY R. GONZALEZ JR. has founded Gonzalez
Associates Inc., a real estate development, con-
sulting and brokerage firm in West Palm Beach,
Fla.

1969 fs

MARRIAGE: RICHARD MARTIN THOMAS and Sara
Elizabeth Valiant Faontleroy on June 9; 1979, in
Bedford, Va. Assisting in the ceremony was Dr.
John Newton Thomas, 24, the bridegroom’s uncle.
Following graduation from Harvard Law School,
Thomas began practice in Roanoke where he is
associated with the firm of Woods, Rogers, Muse,
Walker, and Thornton. The couple will reside in
Roanoke.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EDWIN B. VADEN JR., a
son, Edwin Carter, on April 26, 1979, in Raleigh,
N.C. Vaden is business editor of the News and
Observer.

Dr. MICHAEL J. HAWKINS completed his resi-
dency in internal medicine at the University of
Wisconsin Hospital. He is beginning a fellowship
in oncology at the University of Wisconsin in
Madison.

J. GreEY HESSON is a partner in the Colonial
Heights, Va., law firm of Holleman, Hesson and
Vaughn. He also teaches business law at Richard
Bland Community College in Petersburg.

GEOFFREY S. KUHN received his M.S.W. degree
from the University of Denver Graduate School of
Social Work in June. He is working in family serv-
ices at the University of Colorado Medical Center
and resides in Denver.

THOMAS W. MULLENIX teaches part time in the
masters of public administration program of the
University of Baltimore. He is a budget and man-
agement analyst for the Anne Arundel County
government in Annapolis, Md.

ALAN TOMLIN is a member of the law firm of

 

Dabney, Garwood and Holland in Houston. He
and his wife, Kate, have one son.

JEFFREY WEXLER has moved to Staunton, Va.,
where he is starting a new regional publication,
The Shenandoah Valley Magazine. Wexler is editor
and publisher of the quarterly which will debut in
the fall of 1979. He had been publisher and editor
of two weekly newspapers on Long Island prior to
this new venture.

1970
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. Scot A. BROWER, a son,
Lucas Adam, in November 1978. This is the second
child for the Browers, who have a son, Ned An-
drew, age 3. Brower is with the ophthalmology
department of the Mason Clinic in Seattle.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. L. CLARKE JONES III, a
son, Ryan Clarke, on Oct. 18, 1977, in Richmond.
Jones is vice president of Jones Realty and Con-
struction Corp. and is a real estate broker.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ANDREW B. THOMAS, a
son, William Alexander, in November 1978. Tho-
mas practices administrative and commercial law
in Orlando, Fla., with the firm of Rowland, Bowen
and Thomas.

W. JOHN FRANCISCO has worked since 1973 as a
senior administrative analyst with the New York
State Thruway Authority. He earned his M.B.A.
from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in 1976 and
his M.A. in English from the College of St. Rose in
1979.

Dr. GREGORY T. HOLMES has completed training
in pediatric neurology at the University of Virginia
Medical Center. He has accepted a position as
assistant professor of pediatrics and neurology at
the University of Connecticut Health Center and
Newington Children’s Hospital. Holmes resides
in Cheshire, Conn.

BRUCE R. MACQUEEN is assistant secretary of
Manufacturers Hanover Trust Co. in charge of
business development for the bank’s branch in
Seoul, Korea.

JEREMIAH S. MILLER has been elected president
of the New Canaan (Conn.) Bar Association. He is
a partner in the firm of Hawthorne, Ackerly, and
Dorrance. Miller also serves on the boards of
numerous local service groups and coaches a boy’s
league ice hockey team for the New Canaan Winter

Club.

THOMAS D. ROBSON is an industrial bond trader
with Dillon Read and Co., investment bankers in
New York. He and his wife, Rose Marie, reside in
Plandome, N.Y., with Amanda Jane, 3, and
Thomas Douglas Jr., 1.

1971

THOMAS O. BEAR joined the law firm of Lyons,
Pipes and Cook in Mobile, Ala., on May 1, 1979.

BarrRY R. BOYCE sells upholstery fabric in the
Northwest for R. G. Culp Inc. of High Point,
N.C., and is organizing an export division for the
company. He and his wife reside in Greensboro.

Dr. WILLIAM M. Jacoss, after receiving his
medical degree from the University of Tennessee
in 1974, married the former Linda Joyce Bilbra,
who is also a physician. The couple moved to
Memphis, where Jacobs did two years of residency
in pediatrics at the City of Memphis Hospital and
Le Bonheur Children’s Hospital. He completed
his residency at Milwaukee Children’s Hospital in
1977 where he subsequently became a member of
the faculty at the Medical College of Wisconsin.
While there, Dr. Jacobs also served as pediatrician
with the Milwaukee Area Child and Youth Project.
In 1978 the Jacobs moved to Chapel Hill, N.C.,
where he is now on the faculty of the pediatrics
department of the University of North Carolina
School of Medicine, and Mrs. Jacobs is in the
School of Public Health and is completing her
residency in preventive medicine. The Jacobs have
one daughter, Poppy Regina, born in March 1978.
In August 1979 the Jacobs family expects to move
to the Roanoke, Va., area where he will enter the
private practice of pediatrics. They will reside in
Thaxton.

Dr. D. Downs LITTLE has completed his second
year of residency in internal medicine at the Char-
ity Hospital of New Orleans, Tulane Division. He
previously spent a year as house physician at Re-
treat Hospital in Richmond.

JOSEPH B. TOMPKINS JR., formerly with the law
firm of Sidley & Austin in Washington, D.C., will
become in August 1979 an assistant to the assistant
attorney general, criminal division, U.S. Depart-
ment of Justice. He will be engaged primarily in
policy analysis and management of the criminal
division’s activities.

1972

BIRTH: Mk. and Mrs. W. MICHAEL AGEE, ason,
Michael Randolph, on Nov. 22, 1978. The family
resides in Fairfax, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRIAN S. GREIG, a daugh-
ter, Grace Hanna, on Feb. 2, 1979, in Houston.
Greig is an associate in the firm of Fulbright and
Jaworski.

Dr. DANIEL W. ARMSTRONG, a professor in the
chemistry department at Bowdoin College, has
received a $16,000 grant from Research Corp., a
New York Foundation for the advancement of
science and technology. Armstrong was awarded
the grant for a project entitled “Micellar Chro-
matography, Practical and Theoretical Applica-
tions.” He has been successful with the technique
of micellar chromatology in the separation of
pesticides and environmental pollutants. Arm-
strong received his M.S. and Ph.D. degrees from
Texas A&M University. In recent months he has
been a guest lecturer at Wright State University in

25

CLASS NOTES

Dayton, Ohio, Loyola University in Chicago and
the University of Alabama.

J. CRAIG KERR was elected to a second term as
town justice for Onondaga, N.Y., and as an officer
of the Upstate Trial Attorney’s Association and the
Onondaga County Magistrate’s Association. He is
a partner in the Syracuse law firm of Nottingham,
Paltz, Cerio and Engel.

JOHN E. LAWLOnr is an assistant U.S. attorney in
Jacksonville, Fla. He and his wife, Joan, have two
children, Sarah, 4, and Joshua, 1.

WILLIAM K. MILLKEY is nowassistant to the assis-
tant secretary for policy development and research
for the Department of Housing and Urban Devel-
opment in Washington, D.C.

In May 1979, PETER M. SOMERVILLE graduated
from law school at the University of Missouri-
Columbia. He will enter practice in September in
Rock Port, Mo.

1973

MARRIAGE: Georc.E R. JONES and Cynthia Ann
Marshall of Roanoke, Va., on May 27, 1979, in the
R. E. Lee Memorial Episcopal Church in Lexing-
ton. A reception followed the service in the W&L
Alumni House. The bride, who holds a master’s
degree in library science, is attending graduate
school in the English department at the University
of Virginia. Jones is a candidate for a master’s
degree in business administration from Southern
Methodist University and is currently associated
with an accounting firm in Charlottesville.

MARRIAGE: JACK VAN HORN WHIPPLE and Vic-
toria Park Eyre on May 19, 1979, in Locust Valley,
L.I. Whipple is a corporate lending officer with
the United States Trust Co. of New York.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. LEE Harariss, a son,
Meader Williams III, on March 17, 1979. The
family resides in Rocky Mount, N.C., where Har-
riss is in commercial loan administration with
Planters National Bank.

BIRTH: Mr. and MRs. JAMES F. SPAULDING, a
daughter, Elizabeth Sloan, on May 31, 1979. The
family resides in Chase City, Va., where Spaulding
is a partner with his father in lumber manufacturing
and farming.

JOHN F.. BUCKLEY received his doctor of medicine
degree from the University of Nebraska Medical
Center on May 20, 1979, in Omaha.

JOFFRE J. Cross IJ is a partner in the Houston law
firm of Langham, Langston and Dyer.

H. WATKINS ELLERSON II] and his band, Laughing
Matter, plan to produce an album. Ellerson prac-
tices law in Orange, Va.

DOUGLAS A. FORSYTHE is an assistant circuit at-

26

torney for St. Louis, Mo. He is assigned to the
felony trial staff.

W. REVELL LEwis III graduated from T. C. Wil-
liams School of Law in May 1979. He passed the
Virginia bar examination in February and is now
engaged in the general practice of law in Parksley,
Va., on the Eastern Shore.

Davip A. POWERS III is senior partner in the
Richmond law firm of Powers, Walker and Buford.
Powers also serves as head wrestling coach for the
University of Richmond.

Dr. Scott E. RICKOFF completed his residency
in podiatric surgery at Kern Hospital in Warren,
Mich., in December 1978. He is now practicing
foot and ankle surgery in Pensacola, Fla.

AVEN L. SHARP is personnel manager and assistant
general manager for Covington Diesel Inc. in

Greensboro, N.C.

T. HAL CLARKE JR. (See 1976.)

1974

VicToR A. BARNES, after serving with the Peace
Corps in Zaire, Africa, for two years and completing
his master’s degree in African studies at UCLA,
has now begun his Ph.D. program in international
development education at Stanford University.

Dr. WILLIAM F. BEACHAM is in his second year of
post-graduate training in the obstetrics and gyne-
cology department at Grady Hospital in Atlanta.

AVERILL C. HARKEY received the degree of Juris
Doctor from Wake Forest University’s School of
Law on May 21, 1979. Harkey also was recognized
for his contribution to the law school as the presi-
dent of the Student Bar Association in the 1977-78
session.

DR. RICHARD K. STUART JR. completed his doc-
torate in organometallic chemistry at Michigan
State University. He is now employed by Texas
Eastman Co. in Longview, Texas, and is engaged
in catalyst research and development in the com-
pany 's plastics division.

HANNES VAN WAGENBERG now holds the position
of vice president with Foreign Advisory Services
Corp. in Prince Anne, Md. The firm specializes in
gift-ware imports.

JOHN S. (JACK) WALLACE works in the technical
strategic planning department of First Computer
Services, a subsidiary of First Union Corp. He is
responsible for branch office automation. He re-
sides in Charlotte, N.C.

BIRTH: Mr. and MRs. MICHAEL P. BAGLEY, a
son, Matthew Charles, in September 1978. Bagley

is associated with the law firm of McLane, Graf,

Greene, Raulerson and Middleton of Manchester,
N.H.

ROBERT C. FLOYD is a systems representative
with the Columbia, $.C., branch of Burroughs
Corp. He has worked with the firm for four years.

PAUL G. FRITH, having graduated from the Medi-
cal College of Georgia, is now a resident in ob-
stetrics and gynecology at the Medical Center of
Central Georgia in Macon.

SAMUEL R. LEWIS was admitted to the Maryland
Bar Association last summer. He entered the Army
as a JAG captain at Fort Hood, Texas. He has been
on temporary assignment to the U.S. Military
Academy at West Point.

STEVEN W. PURTELL, after receiving his law de-
gree from Valparaiso University School of Law in
May 1978, was admitted to the Pennsylvania Bar
Association later that year. He is now working as
an associate in the law offices of George C. Williams
in Wellsboro, Pa.

CHARLES A. STEIN has returned to Charlottesville
for his fourth year at the University of Virginia
Medical School after a year-long leave of absence
during which he worked at the Lutheran Children’s
Home of the South in Salem, Va.

LT. KIM STENSON is serving as a company com-
mander with the 52nd Infantry in Bamberg, Ger-
many, where he has been stationed since April

1976.

J. RANDOLPH TAYLOR is a certified public ac-
countant in the administrative services division of
Arthur Andersen and Co. in Washington. He re-
ceived the M.B.A. in finance from American Uni-
versity in May 1979.

JAMES E. TOLER JR. is the New England repre-
sentative for United Media Enterprise, the parent
firm for several media publications. He resides in
Riverside, R.I.

J. GREY HESSON (See 1969.)

MARRIAGE: ROBERT H. ANDERSON III and Julia
Wickham Shannon on June 16, 1979, in Richmond.
The couple will reside in Richmond.

MARRIAGE: Cay T. JACKSON and Catherine
Jane Tyne on May 19, 1979, in the historic Christ
Church Frederica on St. Simons Island. Following
the reception at The Cloister Hotel, the couple
took a Carribbean honeymoon. Among those at-
tending were R. Douglas Hunter, "77, Richard C.
Everett Jr., 77, and Michael D. Thompson, ’77.
The couple resides in Nashville, Tenn., where
Jackson is in the insurance business.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. HAL CLARKE JR., a
daughter, Jarratt Robertson, on May 10, 1979, in

Atlanta. The parents are both graduates of the
W&L Law School. Mrs. Clarke, the former Nan
Robertson, '76, was also a 1973 graduate of Sweet
Briar College. Clarke is practicing law in Atlanta.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PAuL O. Ciay JR., ason,
Christopher Paul, on Feb. 5, 1979, in Bluefield,
W. Va. Clay is associated with the law firm of
Hudgins, Coulling, Brewster and Morhous.

ALAN CHIPPERFIELD is with the Public Defender’s
Office in Jacksonville, Fla.

Douc.as W. Darsy won the first place award for
his paper, “The Role of Time in Consumer Be-
havior and its Application to Telephone Market-
ing,’ in April 1979, from the Washington, D.C.
chapter of the American Marketing Association.
He is earning his M.B.A. at George Washington
University. Darby has created an organizational
development game called High Anxiety for which
he is seeking a copyright.

DANIEL E.. DRENNEN graduated from Cumberland
School of Law and passed the Alabama bar exam in
February 1979. He is associated with the Birming-
ham firm of Bradley, Arant, Rose and White.
Drennen will enroll at Emory University this fall
to earn his L.L.M. in taxation. ‘
WILLIAM W. PIFER of Winchester, Vi. has re-
cently been named a staff assistant in charge of the
7th Congressional District office in Winchester for
Congressman J. Kenneth Robinson. Pifer is a
former member of the staff of the Republican party
in Virginia as a field representative and has man-
aged campaigns, including State Senator Nathan
Miller's try for the Republican nomination for the
United States Senate last year. In addition, Pifer is
engaged in the construction business.

RODERICK R. SCOTT is working for AT&T in Pis-
cataway, N.J., as a member of the programming
staff. He resides in Warren, N.]J.

JONATHAN L. SPEAR is associated with the law
firm of vomBaur, Coburn, Simmons and Turtle in
Washington.

1977
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES E. NICHOLSON, a
daughter, Megan Van Zandt, on Nov. 5, 1978, in
Grand Rapids, Mich. In July 1979 Nicholson be-
came an associate with the Minneapolis law firm of
Faegre and Benson. He will specialize in corporate
finance.

THOMAS A. BAUGH will serve a two-year intern-
ship in one of the 42 departments and agencies in
the executive branch of the federal government,
under the sponsorship of the Presidential Man-
agement Intern Program. He is currently working
as an intern to the executive director of the Alamo
Area Council of Governments and is earning his
M.A. in urban studies at Trinity University in San
Antonio.

 

Douc.tass W. DEwING has been elected to the
Student Bar Association and treasurer of the stu-
dent body at Washington University School of
Law in St. Louis.

EDWARD M. DUVALL is employed by Analysts
Inc., an oilfield exploration company, in Anchor-
age, Alaska. He plans to begin studies for his M.S.
in geology in January 1980 at Idaho State Univer-
sity.

WILLIAM ROBERT HANSEN is with the New York
law firm of Mims, Hawes, Collison & Isner.

WILLIAM J. KERR received an M.B.A. degree
from the University of Notre Dame and is now
associated with Arthur Andersen and Co. in
Chicago. He is on the staff of administrative serv-
ives which specializes in management consulting.

JAMES C. ROOT earned the master’s degree in

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, "70, Smith, Robinson & Vinyard,
117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Atlanta—John W. Hines, ‘63, Trust Co. Bank, P. O. Box 4418,
Atlanta, Ga. 30302

Augusta-Rockingham—Ross V. Hersey, 40, 1060 Lyndhurst Rd.,
Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—William F. Rienhoff IV, ’74, Baker Watts & Co., Cal-
vert & Redwood Sts., Baltimore, Md. 21203
Birmingham—David R. Pittman, 75, The John G. Pittman Agency,
1101 S. 22nd St., Birmingham, Ala. 35203

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, 69, Route 1, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., 57, Sun First Natl. Bank
of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897

Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, 74, P.O. Box 651, Jackson,
Miss. 39205

Charleston—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, ‘68L, 710 Commerce
Square, Charleston, W. Va. 25301

Charlotte—Gary L. Murphy, "70, 1925 Shoreham Dr., Charlotte,
N.C. 28211

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, 72L, 111 Maclellan Bldg.,
721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402

Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, ’62, '65L, Winston and Strawn, One
First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, II]. 60670
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, 56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—R. Noel Spence, ‘56, ‘58L, 123 W. Washing-
ton, St., Hagerstown, Md. 21740

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., °61, 3919 Cobblestone Dr., Dallas,
Texas 75229

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, 75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—Ernest I. Cornbrooks III, 67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisbury, Md. 21801

Detroit—James W. Large, 68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern North Carolina—Dr. Mike Miles, 68, 401 Yorktown,
Chapel Hill, N.C. 27514

Florida West Coast—Stephen P. Fluharty, '73, 4701 MacDill Ave.,
Tampa, Fla. 33611

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream— Mercer K. Clarke, 66, Smathers & Thompson, 1301
Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131
Houston—W. B. Oglivie Jr., 64, Oftice of Executive V.P., Baylor
College of Medicine, Texas Medical Center, Houston, Texas 77030
Jacksonville—Charles E. Commander III, °62, 3839 Ortega Blvd.,
Jacksonville, Fla. 32210

Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, ‘71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock—William F. Rector Jr., "70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205

Long Island—Kenneth B. Van de Water Jr., “41, 174 Parsons Dr.,
Hempstead, L.I., N.Y. 11550

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., 70, 222 S. Birchwood Ave.,
Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—E. Starke Sydnor, 66, P.O. Box 958, Lynchburg, Va.
24505

Mid-South—Jody Brown, 65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Briad Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbrun Viaduct, Nashville, Tenn. 37215
Mobile—\{cGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala. 36601
Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins HI, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,

 

 

Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, 72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass., 02149

New Orleans—Richard K. Christovich, 68, 1208 Pine St., New
Orleans, La. 70118

New York—John M. Ellis, 56, HAUS International, 1212 Avenue
of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, ‘61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—John Madison Jr., 64, Wilner, Weiss,
Madison & Howell, 411 Commercial National Bank Bldg., Shreve-
port, La. 71101

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, ‘66, 219 Couch Dr., Oklahoma
City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S$. Smith, °63, 2910
Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm Beach, Fla. 33401

Palmetto—A. G. “Joe” Wilson, 69, 2825 Wilton Rd., W. Columbia,
S.C. 29169

Peninsula—Benjamin A. Williams, °71, 134 Hampton Roads Ave.,
Hampton, Va. 23661

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, 3985 Piedmont Rd., Pensacola,
Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Edward W. Coslett III, "70, 64 Paxon Hollow Rd.,
Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont—James S. Mahan III, °73, Wachovia Bank & Trust Co.,
Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104

Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnson, °56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond—Robert H. Yevich, '70, 6931 Navaho Rd., Richmond,
Va. 23225 :

Roanoke—James M. Turner Jr., (67, “71L, 2913 Carolina Ave.,
S.W., Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, ‘59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington, Va.
24450

San Antonio—H. Drake Leddy, '71, Arthur Andersen & Co., 425
Soledad St., Suite 600, San Antonio, Texas 78205

St. Louis—Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., 66, 330 Oakley Lane, St.
Louis, Mo. 63122

South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle II, "74, P. O. Box
695, Greenville, S. C. 29602

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, 53, Box 1762, Santa
Ana, Calif. 9202

Southern Ohio—Smith Hickenlooper III, 64, Trust Dept., Central
Trust Co., 45th & Vine St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45202

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr., ‘54, ‘60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531

Tidewater—William P. Ballard Jr., 73, 409 Yarmouth St., Norfolk,
Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley II, 69L, Box 1835, Huntington,
W. Va. 25719

Tulsa—John C. Martin Ill, 78, 2462 E. 30th St., Tulsa, Okla.
T4114

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, °43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, ‘70, Arthur Andersen & Co.,
1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.—Chester T. Smith, °53,
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, ‘62, 1405 Woodland Trail, Abi-
lene, Texas 79605

Wisconsin—Price M. Davis Jr., 36, 10060 N. Range Line Rd.,
Mequon, Wisc. 53092

 

 

108 Inwood

 

IN MEMORIAM

international management from the American
Graduate School of International Management in
Glendale, Ariz.

ROGER P. RYDELL has been named public rela-
tions specialist for the travel related services PR
group of American Express Co. He had been an
account executive for Straus Associates/Haft Group
Inc. Rydell and his wife, Kathy, reside in Garden
City, N.Y.

1978

THOMAS K. GALVIN III has completed his first
year at the University of Maryland Medical School.

WALTER GRANRUTH is employed by Irving Trust
Co. in New York. He is in the company’s manage-
ment training program.

HEnrY C. ROEMER III is working as a sales repre-
sentative for R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Co. in Paris,
Texas.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1914

ARCHIBALD CHAPMAN BUCHANAN of Tazewell,
Va., a former justice of the Virginia State Supreme
Court, died May 3, 1979. He had served as judge
of Virginia's 27th Judicial Circuit from 1927 until
1946 and as a justice of the State Supreme Court
from 1946 until 1969. He was also mayor of Taze-
well from 1917 until 1921. Judge Buchanan re-
ceived an honorary Doctor of Laws degree from
W&L in 1949. He was a member of the board of
trustees of Hampden-Sydney College, Mary Bald-
win College, and Union Theological Seminary.

1920

JOHN WILSON DRYE JR., senior partner of the
New York law firm of Kelley, Drye & Warren,
died May 1, 1979. He was general counsel and a
director of Union Carbide Corp. as well as a direc-
tor of the Brooklyn Union Gas Co., the Continental
Corp., and the Warner-Lambert Pharmaceutical
Co. Drye was president of the Juilliard Musical
Foundation and a director of the Juilliard School
and the Metropolitan Opera Association. He also
was a director and member of the building com-
mittee of Lincoln Center for Performing Arts.

ROBERT G. KELLY, Charleston lawyer and out-
doorsman, died June 11, 1979. Kelly was senior
partner in the firm of Jackson, Kelly, Holt &
O'Farrell, which he joined in 1931. In 1975, he
was selected the nation’s outstanding coal lawyer
at the National Coal Association’s Coal Lawyers
Conference. He was on the board of directors of
Kanawha Valley Bank, Carbon Industries, Ken-
tucky Carbon Corp., Vann Industries, Connelton

28

Industries, and Maple Meadow Mining Co. He
was a past chairman of the board of West Virginia
Water Co., and past member of the West Virginia
Conservation Commission and the Kanawha
County Airport Committee. Kelly was also a former
state chairman of the Democratic Party, and in
1940 was a delegate-at-large to the Democratic
National Convention. He served two terms as
president of the West Virginia Chamber of Com-
merce and three terms as a director of the U.S.
Chamber of Commerce. Kelly also hunted and
fished around the world and in 1961 he wrote a
book, Trout, Trails and Tigers.

1925

WILLIAM E. BROCK JR., chairman of the Brock
Candy Co., died June 1, 1979, in Chattanooga,
Tenn. He joined the company, founded by his
father, in 1924 and served for many years as presi-
dent of the firm before becoming chairman. Brock
was the father of Paul K. Brock, 54, president of
the Brock Candy Co., and William E. Brock III,
53, Republican National Chairman. Brock played
an active role during Chattanooga’s public school
desegregation crisis in 1962 and because of his
efforts he received the B’nai B’rith’s Distinguished
Service Award. For many years he had been a
member of the National Confectioners’ Association
and served as vice president and chairman of many
of its committees. In regional business circles he
was on the board of directors of the Hamilton
National Bank and the Provident Life and Accident
Insurance Co. He was associated with the Chatta-
nooga Manufacturers Association and was a direc-
tor of the Greater Chattanooga Chamber of Com-
merce. In 1965 he was named the recipient of the
Kiwanis Club’s Service Award. A well-known lay-
man and Sunday school teacher, Brock served as
vice moderator of the session of elders of Lookout
Mountain Presbyterian Church.

1926

CHARLES P. SNYDER, a retired Admiral of the
U.S. Navy, died June 1, 1979. He resided in Po-
mona, Calif.

1936

E. ANGUS POWELL, chairman of the Richmond
(Va.) Federal Reserve Bank’s board of directors,
died May 19, 1979. Powell also was associated with
Lea Industries Inc., an area furniture and box
manufacturing company, and with a land develop-
ment project in Chesterfield County. He was
president of Lea Industries from 1951 to 1970 and
was named chairman of the board in 1970. He was
president and board chairman of the Chesterfield
Land and Timber Corp. from 1959 to 1977 when
he became board chairman of Midlothian Devel-
opment Corp., the successor corporation. Active
in state education, Powell was a member of the
Longwood College board for 10 years. He was a
16-year member of the board of The Collegiate
Schools and served as the organization’s president
from 1959 to 1962. He was also active in civic
affairs, serving as president of the board of the

Metropolitan YMCA for two years, co-chairman of
the fund raising campaign for Westminster Can-
terbury House, a retirement home sponsored by
Episcopal and Presbyterian denominations. In
1972 Powell was awarded a silver Brotherhood
Medallion by the National Council of Christians
and Jews.

1939

BAGLEY MEREDITH TROTTER JR., who for many
years was personnel director for Vanderbilt Uni-
versity in Nashville, Tenn., died June 2, 1979.
Trotter was an auditor for the State A.B.C. Board.

1941
Dr. FREDERICK A. RUSCH, a dentist in Anaheim,
Calif., died April 7, 1979. Rusch was an advisory
director of Barclays Bank and a director of Orange
County Dental Society.

1942

CHRISTOPHER C. BARNEKOV, formerly of Mc-
Lean, Va., died on Feb. 12, 1979, in Clearwater,
Fla. Before his retirement in 1973 from the federal
government, Barnekov traveled extensively
throughout Europe and Africa as a geographic
attache. During World War II, he served with the
U.S. Navy Reserve in the Pacific. He retired with
the rank of captain.

1949

CARLTON HANSON KISER, a vice president with
Chubb & Son Inc. of Short Hills, N.J., died May 8,
1979. Kiser joined Chubb & Son in 1949 as a
claims attorney in the fidelity and surety loss de-
partment. In 1958 he was made assistant manager
of the department and appointed an assistant vice
president of Chubb & Son. In 1972, Kiser was
made manager of the bonding loss department and
at the same time was named a vice president. He
served as trustee of the Village of Williston Park,
Nassau County, N.Y., between 1958 and 1960. He
was a member of the Virginia State Bar Association,
the New York State Bar Association and the Inter-
national Association of Insurance Counsel.

1961
R. KENT FRAZIER, a partner in the Atlanta law
firm of Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan, died on
June 7, 1979. While at W&L Frazier was a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, the Cadaver Society, and

%

Omicron Delta Kappa. He was also president of
the student government. Following graduation
from Harvard Law School in 1964, Frazier was a
captain in the U.S. Army Intelligence for two
years. He was a frequent lecturer at professional
seminars and was chairman of several committees
of the Young Lawyers Section of the Georgia Bar
Association.

 

Shenandoah

hel Oped

$1.50

 

 

 

Shenandoah

‘THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY REVIEW

Witers of this stature appear
in SHENANDOAH:
ROBERT PENN WARREN
ALLEN TATE

PETER TAYLOR
ELIZABETH BISHOP
Roy FULLER

ROBERT LOWELL
RICHARD HOWARD
REYNOLDS PRICE

W. S. MERWIN

JOYCE CAROL OATES

Two stories that appeared in
SHENANDOAH during 1977-78
won coveted O. Henry Awards
for distinguished brief fiction.

Won't you subscribe to Wash-
ington and Lee _ University’s
award-winning magazine of
fiction, poetry, essays, and
criticism?

Published quarterly
$5.00 a year $8.00 two years

 

Shenandoah

The Washington and Lee University Review
Box 722

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Enter my subscription to SHENANDOAH for
[_] One year @ $5.00
My check for $

enclosed

[_] Two years @ $8.00

 

Name

 

Address

 

City

State

 

I go on admiring [Shenandoah], none in the

country does better with its resources.
—Robert Lowell, 1967

I can think offhand of only two or three uni-
versity-financed reviews in which the impact
of a strong editorial personality has created a
vital magazine. The examples that come to
my mind are those of David Ray and the
strong social-radical consciousness he has
brought to the editing of New Letters for the
University of Missouri at Kansas City; of the
elegant and rather patrician standards James
Boatwright has given to Shenandoah at
Washington and Lee; and of Robin Skelton,
who has brought such a distinctively inter-
national flavor to the Malahat Review at the

University of Victoria in British Columbia.
—George Hitchcock, editor of Kayak,
in The Little Magazine in America: A Modern
Documentary History (TriQuarterly, Fall 1978)

You are the best “little” magazine in the

country.
—Allen Tate, 1970

In this year’s collection are twenty-one
stories. . . . Sixteen were first published in
the pages of little magazines, quarterly re-
views, irregularly issued periodicals reaching
a small, a very small, readership. (Shenan-
doah, for example, one of the best of these
magazines from which I have taken two
stories, prints approximately one thousand

copies of each quarterly issue.)
—wWilliam Abrahams, in the introduction to
Prize Stories 1979: The O. Henry Awards

Dr. Robert Coles, child psychiatrist and
author, is, by his own description, one of
those “Yankees who went south and fell in
love with the region.” He is a loyal subscriber
to several “good southern literary quarter-
lies”: The Sewanee Review... The Southern
Review . . . The Georgia Review; and Shen-

andoah.”

—"“Where Opinion Makers Get Their Opinions,”
Esquire, June 5, 1979

a9

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 4450)

 

 

FALL TERM
September 5
September 12
f° October 4-6
October 25
November 9-11
November 16
November 26
December 12
December 18

WINTER TERM
January 7
January 18
February 15
February 18
February 25
April 5

April 11

SPRING TERM
April 21

May 8-10 .
May 9-10

May 31

June 2

June 4

June 5

 

 

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
UNDERGRADUATE CALENDAR

1979-80

Freshman Orientation begins
Classes begin
Homecoming
Freshman mid-term reports due
Parents’ Weekend
Thanksgiving holiday begins
Classes resume
Examinations begin
Examinations end

Christmas holiday begins

Classes begin
Founders’ Day—ODK Convocation
Washington holiday begins
Freshman mid-term reports due
Classes resume
Examinations begin
Examinations end

Spring holiday begins

Classes begin

Spring Alumni Reunions
Mock Convention
Examinations begin
Examinations end
Baccalaureate Service
Commencement Exercises

 

 

