the alumni magazine of washington and lee university DECEMBER 1973

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 48, Number 8, December 1973

William C, Washburn 740...000.0..00.ccccccccceeeeeeteee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, ’68.............0000.00....ccccc cece. Associate Editor
Mrs. Joyce Carter......0.00.. ccc Editortal Assistant
Robert Lockhart, ?72..0..00.0 occ Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Alumni Attitude Survey 0.0.0.0... eee ]
Four Generations of Steves 0.0.0.0... ee 5
Campus News occ eee etre ceteeeneeennees 6
Distinguished Alumnus Award. ............0..0..:00. 10
Campus Construction. Projects ....0..00.00.0.ee. 12
Chapter NeWS oo.......ccccceececcecteeeteeeteetteenteentenes 14
Class Notes 2.0.0.0... cccccccccesseettentteteteeneenes 16
Tn Memoriam 2.0... ccccccccceceeeeteeeteeeteeten 19

STATEMENT OF OWNERSHIP as required by Act of
Congress of Aug. 24, 1912, as amended by the Acts of
March 3, 1933, July 2, 1946 and June 11, 1960: W&L, The
Alumni Magazine of Washington and Lee University is own-
ed by Washington and Lee University Alumni, Inc., and is
entered as second class matter at the Post Office in Lexington,
Virginia 24450, with additional mailing privileges at Roa-
noke, Virginia 24001. William C. Washburn is editor and
business manager. His address is Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia 24450. There are no bond, mort-
gage, or other security holders. The average number of copies
of each issue during the 12 preceding months was 15,500.

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM H. HIL.ier, ’38, Chicago, II.
President

‘T. HAL CiarkeE, ’38, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, ’40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

‘THOMAS B. BRANCH, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
RIcHARD D. HAyNEs, ’58, Dallas, ‘Texas
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, ’58, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce HouGu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
‘THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, ‘Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.

J. THomas Toucuton, ’60, ‘I'ampa, Fla.

 

On the Cover: Zim Cauble, a senior from West
Point, Ga., who has a pilot’s license, took a Univer-
sity photographer on a flight over Lexington one
afternoon this autumn for a picture-taking session
to show the progress of construction projects on
the back campus and the physical relationships be-
tween the Historic Front Campus area and the new
projects. The cover photograph is a result of the
flight. More pictures appear on Page 12.

 

 

 

 

                 

 

 
 

 
 
 

.

7 -
. | > »
oe Oo | a |
; : ; wee -

- ; ; ; a ; : a ‘ ; zs ; : =

- - 7 7 7 :

+ a | 7

a - - 7 —-* 7 a -
- 7 ee 7 -
7 /

Oo a
; ; / ; >

 

Oo
se

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

—

 

7

 

re

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee Ss
a - 8
oe 4

 

po.
eee eee eee

 

 

 

 

mee ele ee -

 

 

     

 

Drawings by Marion Junkin

Professor Emeritus of Fine Arts

ei NY ‘Sb i et Hid) AD ae Xr} Ne NSE Ay iB . ey . :
a Sa RS meg a Bas ae Vi ig tacts were made by mail. Among contributors there was a

Y
VA

‘

slightly higher incidence of personal contacts.

4. Approximately half (51 percent) do not remember
any points made in the contribution request. Those
who do primarily remember a financial need appeal (13
percent) and that it is a percentage drive (11 percent).

5. The great majority of alumni (72 percent) have
no fund raising suggestions. Those who do stress _pri-
marily the need for more personal contacts (5 percent)
and more frequent local chapter activities (5 percent).

CONTRIBUTION AND AGE EFFECTS
1. A comparison of contributors vs. non-contributors
for all of the above trends has been included in the re-
port. ‘They are too numerous to be summarized here.
In general, contributors tend to be more positive toward
Washington and Lee throughout.
ae ae ha Oe a | 3 2. Age comparisons have also been included in the
is. VA MT: |] Pree Bh M Ba report. Throughout there is a tendency for younger
ee | alumni to be more involved or vocal about Washington

RB

 

nual gifts during that period for current support and
$24,000,000 in additional endowment to maintain the
University’s level of excellence. Annual giving in in-
creasing amounts and numbers of donors from alumni,
parents, and friends is essential to the University’s con-
tinued ability to operate on a balanced budget.)

CONTRIBUTIONS

1. Approximately 61 percent claim to have contri-
buted during the past two or three years.

2. Feelings of loyalty, gratitude, and appreciation
(41 percent), a sense of duty or obligation (22 percent),
and a desire to keep Washington and Lee operating (21
percent) are the most frequently given reasons for mak-
ing a contribution.

3. Virtually all of the alumni surveyed (97 percent)
had been contacted within the last year. Most of the con-

4

and Lee affairs. Older alumni seem out of touch and un-
involved.

MAJOR CONCLUSIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

1. ‘The study assumed that two factors are at play
in the creation of a climate for giving: (a) a favorable
predisposition toward and (b) a degree of involvement
with the University. In this context, Washington and
Lee has fairly high marks in the first factor but it could
stand some improvement in the second.

2. In order to encourage involvement, Washington
and Lee would do well to work at the grass-roots level,
in the alumnus’ own turf, rather than through annual
meetings at Lexington.

3. This would call for more and better organized
local chapter activities under the centralized encourage-
ment and guidance of the Washington and Lee alumni
relations staff.

4. Strong consideration should also be given to fos-
tering involvement through the special activities describ-
ed above (point 10 under Alumni Activities). Reactions
to most of these were quite enthusiastic even among the
non-contributors. Since they can be engaged in at the
alumnus’ convenience, the problems of scheduling speci-
fic times would be bypassed.

WeL

 

 

 

 

 

Campus News

 

University is host to 1,200
during Parents’ Weekend, 1973

Washington and Lee’s 19th annual
Parents’ Weekend brought approximate-
ly 1,200 parents and other relatives of
students to the campus on Nov. 2-4. The
weekend was designed to give parents a
better understanding of the University’s
aspirations and goals and to impart to
parents a sense of partnership in the Uni-
versity’s role of educating their sons.

The parents held private conferences
with their sons’ professors and attended
small-group seminars in which they dis-
cussed the whole range of the Univer-
with students,
members, and administrative officials.

sity’s activities faculty

At a “Report to Parents” meeting in
Lee Chapel, they heard talks on the
state of the University by President Rob-
ert E. R. Huntley and Student Body
President Douglas R. Schwartz. President
Huntley told of the University’s curri-
cular developments, discussed the $56-
million development program for the
1970’s, and stressed the institution’s de-
termination to hold tuition at a level
that does not exceed 60 percent of the
cost of an education at Washington and
Lee. Schwartz discussed the efforts of the
Student Body Executive Committee to

strengthen ties within the University com-
munity and to preserve the Honor Sys-
tem as the most cherished aspect of stu-
dent life at W&L.

Introduced at the meeting was the
chairman of the 1973-74 Parents’ Fund.
He is W. Martin Kempe of Orange, Va.,
the father of M. Alexander Kempe, a
junior. Kempe _ succeeded Robert A.
Hemm of Pelham, N. Y. The Parents’
Fund last year raised $62,624 in unre-
stricted funds for the University.

Other Parents’ Weekend activities in-
cluded a musical program in Lee Chapel,
featuring performances by the newly
formed W&L Jazz Ensemble, the Wash-
ington and Lee Brass and Percussion En-
semble, and the Glee Club; the tradition-
al reception for parents at the President’s
House; and a Saturday afternoon foot-
ball game in which W&L faced South-
western of Memphis.

 

Faculty Art Exhibit

 

Almost 40 works by members of the
art faculty at Washington and Lee were
displayed during early November in the
University’s duPont Gallery.

The works included 12 recent oil
paintings by Dr. Gerard M. Doyon, art
professor and curator of the gallery.
Doyon’s works are oil paintings of scenes

in Lexington and Rockbridge County.

Also included in the faculty showing

 

inte Oe ete REE Ok
Director of Development Farris Hotchkiss

with new Parents’ Fund Chairman W.
Martin Kempe.

 

Parents pose questions at small-group seminar.

6

Faculty art exhibit attracted visiting parents.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7

oe

sar tho

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

. One Year in Jail. Mrs.
the author of a numl

.
a )

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

    
    
  

_— Trustees, th ‘the Alumni Board of
h will be known as the “Distin-

TI The svar will be made joint -
y at ind the ihepenin of ms Alum- /

 

 
 
  
     

aca to all

deration of poehumana :

 

 

0; rd d of Directors encourages members of the ‘Alumni Association a
Dt an ninate highly qualified alumni. Should a nominee not be selected — —
in a given year, his | name will I be carried forward for consideration the following

- ae and the sponsor is encouraged to submit any additional 5 pertinent information. — ae

 

  

   

Adjacent to this article is a nomination for m. The selection process will bea dif. -
cule one for the committee and each sponsor is encouraged to be as brief and as

igh in making his nomination as is. possible.

 

 

   

*

"DEADLINE FOR NOMINATIONS FOR 1974 DISTINGUISHED ALUM.
NUS AWARDS IS FEBRUARY 4, 1974.

| Use form at right to make your nomination.

 

| MAIL TO: Awards’ Committee
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc. |
Lexington, V Virginia a 24450

   
 

 

: 0 /
Q
Y
Q
Q-
N

   

 

SESE SESE SESE SE SE SESE SESE SE SESE SE SESE SESE SESE SE SE SESE SESE SESE SE SESE SESE SE SEE EEE SEE SE EEE SEES

 

                

  
    
       
   
   

- 7 2 7
/ ; / ; oe ;
: :
: \ -
: a :
; \

/ \

/ \

- |

1

; !

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

Lemme meee eee e eee eee rere reese neers reserereresereessserercacerecessreserer ee

   

     

   

e meee weer were reece ene

 

        

     

ea

         

 

    

  

 

 
 
 

bere e eee eeee

 

Sevseucseeevaccensesscscececsscessesssessesseectsccssessssssaecenseensassressscsunesmersessenssesssssssararscscsersscssacserserssesereseee sees ares eres esses ees

    

   

 

  

        
   
 
   
   
  

 

7 oe - - : : - : } a
cece eee cece eee eee e eee e teers ere estes eee sess seueereseceseresssssesssesesersere ere eee weer eecnce

 

    

 

     

Leen e cence ence cesses eaencneeneesescesaseaeassacesercasessscassasessoreseacescesasee rss s esse esse eee eee ee . etir ‘ eee eee errr eee eee eee ee merc cece rec ccc reeceeee

   

 

    

OL pro ession . ation an title cece cc cet ccc eee ee eee eee eee eee eee reece eee eeeseeereresesesserssesessssereesencessssccsssssrrseeserereree ees
: a : ; : :

*

 

       

    

     
    

ec erew eee e eee reer ee rere areas sgeresceresseesesesesscesesssrssesereseserereres
: ; oo : ¥ ” :

 

 

ce

                
 

- - .

 

 

Ce

 

Cem ewe wee eee ee eee meee etree eee sree reser eeeeeeeseeseeee
: 7 ' . ° . :

 

 

 

 

eee ewer renner errr se ereeeeeesereess rc Pe

 

 

     
    
     
  
 
     

 

 

 

 

decane eee cence teen eee e eens eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeesssseeesereeeeeersssseescssseessacacsssseessesaresersreeee -

   

 

 

sence cece eee e nec ee een e eens een et ee erecenecencsseseeeetanessnsranssecesecrarcsesecacsaceacssescceccees esses eases eee e eee ee ees eee recor eee

  
  

            
  

 

 

.

vc caeaeceucucnceceaeuesueeteseeseeseeesetuauenaeaeceegeesenenegeereccrcrsnsnsesesesenensnsneuarceueasesnsessssesseeseseeeeea esses esse sees sees ea eases esas ease sees eee e ee -

 

   
    
   
    

 

7 a 7 7 a

  

ee Lec eee eee e eases cess eeee eens eeeees eens ens eneeneseaseeseneeensenneensensaetsnssesensensenaersgeuscsaseacerssesenaesaes sass esse esses e esses sees eee e eee ee sees eee eee ee eee eee TE

  

   

   

- business , evel 0: essional or trad ie honors) cece eee e cece eee eect eee e eee eee eee eee e sete eee e eee e nese eee reese ee eeseeeeeeeeeee |

   

eee cece weet eee eee eens eee e eee eee seen nseeeee esses sass se seeeeeees Dec er eee eee e eaten ener ence ee eee esses ences eeeeseseeeeeerenersserssesssesesscrssssecuscsereresessseee sees -

         

sec euccececeucceeceuceuuceueeecccucseeceeeeearseeeeucesuetseeesessanseueseuessnsseessaesssccansesseaessresacseseccacccac esse sees s ee sees eee eee eee ee .

    

     
  

         

       
        
     
 
 

- jonsor (be brief and limit to one page). =

   

a ence eee ce cece eceeneee eee ces teense eee eee esses eeeeeeeseceeseeesetseneseersenssseaseresesessnescssscssassasssssssscasssesssaresssessccseesesesee esse ee eee

   

    

    
   

 

cece eee e eee eee e cere eect nesses ne een sen seeeseseseeescusssasecssereseseseeees

. Phone cece cece ccscsecveesrrrerrseee

 

no

 

 
                

ba ad

*

4

ae

a ee ee

*

See hada ort
< i ‘ rs AAS

 

 

a re re
tt at OF
SS

-

- - ~ ; a
: ; . Oe ~ | we Bn
- - a OO 7 - : - 7 - - - a 7 - 7 cag oto ; 7 eet
ae tee s. 4. % oe ite 7 bcp ; a ye tee we ee oe -

oe ae

- : oad a OO
- 7 7 - - 7 7

- 7 : a . - a3.
oo eae

:

 

 

 

Chapter News

 

New England alumni
organize official chapter

NEW ENGLAND. Alumni in the New
England area came together on Oct. 23
and established a new chapter of the
Washington and Lee Alumni Association
to be known officially as the New Eng-
land Chapter. It was the first time in
many years that alumni in the area had
gathered on an organized basis. A large
number of alumni attended the meeting
at the Marriott Motor Inn in Newton,
Mass., all expressing a desire to organize
and develop an ongoing program. Hor-
ace Gooch, ’31, presided at the banquet
meeting which was preceded by a cock-
tail party. He introduced the representa-
tives from the University; Ross Malone,
rector-elect of the University Board of
Trustees, President Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley, and Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn,
all of whom were accompanied by their
wives. John Mello, ’72, was elected presi-

Al the New England organizational meeting were (sé

14

dent of the chapter and accepted on be-
half of the members an official certifi-
cate of chapter membership from Alum-
Mello
briefly, describing the formation of the

ni Secretary Washburn. spoke
chapter and his plans of organization.
He encouraged members of the chapter
to help build a strong organization and
to accept committee assignments. Gooch,
in introducing the University speakers,
thanked them for being present at the
organizational meeting. Malone congratu-
lated the new chapter on behalf of the
University Board of Trustees. He also
reported on the progress of the Univer-
sity’s development program for the ’70’s
and stressed the important part that
alumni play in the life of W&L. President
Huntley also welcomed the new chapter
into the national alumni organization on
behalf of the entire University and _ re-

 

Pty. att ee
~ oss 44

ported on the status of the University to-
day. His remarks were eagerly received.
Mello adjourned the meeting by saying
that all alumni in the area would receive
further information about the plans of
the chapter.

RICHMOND. A

number of alumni

_ gathered on Nov. 14 at the Westwood

Club for a brief business meeting. Alum-
ni Secretary Bill Washburn was present.
Outgoing chapter president Dan Balfour,
'63, presided, and the following officers
were elected: Sam Dudley, ’58, president;
Robert Payne, ’63, and Lewis P. Nelson,
Ill, ’6l, William  B.
Jacobs, ’29, secretary; and Robert Priddy,
67, treasurer. In accepting the _presi-

vice presidents;

dency, Dudley called on all members to
continue to support the active program
initiated by Dan Balfour. He reminded

2 _
ated) Ross Malone, ’32; Mrs. Bill Washburn; John P. Mello, ’72, president;

Mrs. Robert E. R. Huntley; and Horace Gooch, ’31, and (standing) Mrs. Malone; Mr. Washburn; Mrs. Gooch; and President Huntley.

WeL

oo

7 a >

Ail,

“

 

»

Among the participants at the Richmond meeting were Robert Priddy, ’67, treasurer;

 

Re
e

Sam Dudley, 58, new president; and Dan Balfour, 63, outgoing president.

 

New officers of the Tidewater chapter included David Shufflebarger, ’69, vice president;
Peter Agelasto, ’62, president; Richard Burroughs, ’68, secretary; William H. Candler,

63, and Parker Neff, ’51, directors.

 

At St. Louis meeting, Andrew Baur, ’67, president, Athletic Director Bill McHenry,
Dr. George Ray, and Mrs. Baur talk with other guests during dinner.

them of the luncheon meeting on Dec. 6
at which Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, pro-
fessor of English at W&L, was the prin-
cipal speaker.

TIDEWATER. The Holiday Inn-Scope
was the setting of a buffet luncheon on

December 1973

Nov. 15 attended by a large group of
alumni from the Tidewater area. Frank
Callaham, ’52, the outgoing president,
presided. The principal speaker was Dr.
Robert Huntley, professor of English at
W&L, who was in Norfolk on a student
recruiting trip for the admissions staff.

Dr. Huntley discussed recent curricular
developments in the English department
and explained the student recruitment
program. He said alumni could be help-
ful in admission matters. Also represent-
ing the University at the meeting was
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn. Dur-
ing the business session, Lionel Hancock,
'64, reported for the nominating commit-
tee, and the following officers were elect-
ed: Peter Agelasto, ’62, president; David
Shufflebarger, ’69, vice president; Richard
C. Burroughs, ’68, secretary; and J. Davis
Reed, III, ’60, treasurer. Elected directors
of the chapter were William H. Candler,
63, John P. Garrett, 60, H. Michael
Walker, ’63, and Parker Neff, ’51.

ST. LOUIS. Alumni of the St. Louis
16 at the St. Louis
Country Club. A_ banquet-style dinner

area met on Nov.

was served following a cocktail party.
Andrew N. Baur, ’67, presided. ‘The prin-
cipal speaker was Dr. George Ray, profes-
sor of English at W&L and also chairman
of the University Committee on Intercol-
legiate Athletics. Dr. Ray reported on the
changes in the curriculum at Washing-
ton and Lee, particularly as they relate to
the English department. He also report-
ed on the study-abroad program in Eng-
land, which he directed during the spring
term last year. Also present from the Uni-
versity were Athletic Director and Head
Football Coach William D. McHenry,
Alumni Secretary Bill Washburn, and
the co-captains of the 1973 General's
football team, Robert Brand of Bethesda,
Md., and Bill Wallace of Roanoke, Va.
McHenry made a brief report on the
football team’s season and called for the
support of alumni in recruiting student
athletes. This meeting came on the eve
of the W&L-Washington University foot-
ball game in St. Louis.

15

 

 

   

BSTER is president of the Schen
ady Automobile Club and writes a column. in
the club’s bimonthly ‘publication, The
Motorist. In the July-August issue, he tells
how, if you have an intermediate size car
with a V 8 engine, you can save four miles

 

‘per gallon of gasoline if you cruise at 50 -

miles | per I hour rather than’ “

“1915

LAMAR POLK oF EA exandria, La., heads a law
firm ~ which” includes his son William P.
Polk ‘47, as one - the § seven prandsone La a \.

   

 

/ Wittiam: s

torney, is
sociates. Clas:

Price ‘was Captai

 

   
 

in of the 1927 and 1928 box-
ing teams at Washing

 

 

   

Ty? .
Price

In 1970, was admitted to practice

before the Supreme Court of the United

“States. He currently serves on the Blue-
bonnet Bowl Committee. Oo

16—

 

wae | ent of 7 remember - ‘that

yn and Lee. Later he was asked by the government to go t ‘to

coached at W&L after | his. eligibility expired.

   

elected president of the National Society in
March, 1973, exactly 20 years after becom-

ing a member of the national board of di-|
rectors. For more than 16 of those 20 years
d as regional vice Pace -

 

 

Brown has" server
of the southeastern. ape He is. presi sid

ios

) mn active in educa ion. In
1969, he became dean of administration for
Pima Junior, C

  

ollege, , and he was later called

 

to help start work on the Pepperdine Uni-

 

versity campus. In 1970 and 1971,

 

 

ta, Colombia, to reorganize a dairy company.
In view of these assignments, Kaufman has
more than an average lingual ability. The
award citation said he has truly symbolized

 

a Tucson friend of the world.

entitled “Our Man In Memphis.” ” Brown was >

       
   
 
    
   
 
    
 
 
   
 
  
 
    
 
 
   
  
 
   

lowing "paivate daw o— “The Life

 

ES W Ecandorel is the recipient of an —
. | . pee =

  

of Lin v rah wanes, Pope known as. ie -
Creve Couer Executive Office Park. The = ~

 

_ park, a large area near the $:. Louis airport =
mm quick access to metropolitan St. Louis, —

 

y for constructing

 

surance Co. of Va. is an affiliate of the ]
ent company, Richmond Corp. In 1962, |
ler was named general counsel and in |
was elected ‘senior vice eee and

  
 
  

 

  

 
   
 
    
 

/ Peace co River Citrus Groves, Inc., a a
; ane is Resear de in the develoy cps
port oe } ‘and a wea the ?
of Memorial Hospital and the Health Ea
tion Facilities Board in a City.

 

with The "Blade since , Ohio. ‘During World g
Wel

 

 

 

Bernard Judy, °47

War II, he served in the Air Force and the
Army Counterintelligence Corps. He has
been active in Sigma Delta Chi, a_profes-
sional journalism society, has served as a
member of the board of directors of the
Northwestern Ohio Chapter, and was in-
strumental in founding the Toledo Press

Club.
1949

J. MAurRICE MILLER, JR., LL.B. (see 1945)

Joun B. RussELL, an attorney with the firm
of Browder, Russell, Little and Morris of
Richmond, Va., has been inducted as a
fellow of the American College of Trial
Lawyers. The induction ceremony took place
during the recent annual banquet in Wash-
ington, D. C.

The directors of Tremco Manufacturing Co.
of Cleveland, Ohio have elected LEIGH CAR-
TER as president and chief executive officer.
Carter joined Tremco in 1949 and was ap-
pointed general sales manager in 1959. He
was elected vice president of marketing in
1961 and also became a director. Tremco is
a manufacturer of protective coatings and
sealants used in new building construction
and maintenance work.

1950

JoHN H. McCorMack, Jr., has been elected
chairman of the board of the Atlantic Na-
tional Bank of Jacksonville, Fla., effective
Jan. 1. McCormack joined the Atlantic in
1957 as assistant vice president. He previous-
ly had served as a sales representative for
Armstrong Cork Co. McCormack was elected
a member of the board of directors in 1971
and in January, 1973, was elevated to execu-
tive vice president. McCormack is also vice
president of Atlantic Bancorporation and
serves as chairman of the board of Atlantic
Investment Advisers, Inc., the investment
advisory subsidiary of the holding company.
In addition, he serves as chairman of the
board of the Springfield Atlantic Bank in
Jacksonville, the Atlantic National Bank of
West Palm Beach and as director of the At-
lantic Westside Bank of Palm Beach County.
He presently serves on executive committees
and boards of directors of numerous local
civic groups and is a member of the board
of trustees of Jacksonville University.

1951

ANDREW W. GOTTSCHALL, JR., of Greensboro,
N. C., is now acting chairman of the socio-
logy department at Guilford College. He is

December 1973

J. H. McCormack, Jr., ’50

 

 

Name your candidate

In compliance with Article 9 of the By-Laws of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., the names, pictures, and addresses of the Nominating Com-
mittee for 1973-74 are listed below.

 

WILLIAM E. LATTuRE, ’49
Chairman

Blue Bell, Inc.

4115 Redwine Drive
Greensboro, N. C. 27410

JouHN M. McCarndeELL, ’37
Potomac Edison Co.

1156 The Terrace
Hagerstown, Md. 21740

ROBERT H. SEAL, °44
National Bank of Commerce
P. O. Box 121

San Antonio, Texas

The committee is now receiving the names of candidates to fill three
seats on the Alumni Board of Directors and one vacancy on the Univer-
sity Committee on Intercollegiate Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member of the Alumni Association may
submit names of alumni to the Nominating Committee for nomination
for the offices to be filled. Alumni may send names to any member of
the committee or to the committee through the office of the Executive
Secretary of the Alumni Association.

The committee will close its report on March 22, 1974, and present
its nominations to the annual meeting of the Alumni Association on May
11, 1974. The annual meeting coincides with the Spring Reunion Week-
end.

Members of the 12-man Alumni Board of Directors are elected to
four-year terms, with the terms of three members expiring each year. Re-
tiring from the board in May are T. Hal Clarke, ’38, of Atlanta; William
H. Hillier, ’38, of Chicago; and J. Peter G. Muhlenberg, ’50, of Wyo-
missing, Pa. Alumni members of the Athletic Committee serve two-year
terms with one alumni member retiring each year. The member retiring
in May is Rodger W. Fauber, 63, of Lynchburg, Va.

 

 

17

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

- Louis Drezek

    
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
  

   

 

Dougles, TH, "50

R. Dowell, 28°
_— William H. Dowling, Jr., 42

Jan Drabek, “87

 

James D. Driver, 24

_ Jettie Driver, 35 —S
- William T. Duane, 05
Mathew H. Dui y> jr 36

John M. Duhe, Jr., 55
Charles H. Duncan, Je
George | H. Dunn, 65
Thomas D. Durrance,
| William D. Dyer, 62
Gec rge E. Eagle, 52

| David V. Eakin, ’61
James T. Earle, "46
Gerald M patey, 58
_ Gilbert S. Earp, ’25
Everett C. a ied

 

 

 

 

oh Bn w. indson 3 "oT
“Thomas E, Edwards, '68

— James G. | Elms, °24 a
‘Thomas P. ‘England, 72000
7 Lawrence E. eaBlerts, “44 a

_ George W. Effinger, ’08
_ Robert L. Elder, oo

Oe!

   

 

William P. “Ellington, 5

Frederick P. Elliott, ’51

James B. Ellis, Jr., ’31

William D. Ellis, 37

   

 

| “William AL “Erwin, 13 -
Bill E. Evans, ’64 ae
GG. E. _ Pe 8 68

wi an J ite 56

Bandolph, D. Fingland, ’6

Philip M. Firrek, 71,
Harry J. ‘Fisher, 56

Iver Fisher, ’50 7
Harry Fitzgerald, 36

Terence Flannery, '53

George A. Fleece, ’31
John W. ploumoye 29

: Robert Floyd, "4

 

dgar D. Flynn, Wr °37
Hugh L. oe ‘16

 

Jonathan Tones sal
John E. Forker, ’43.
William J. Forrestel, ‘44

— Clinton D. Forsyth, ’23
Malcolm O. Forsyth, 34,

C. B. Foster, 713 —
Lester J. Fox, ’21_
Billy J. ree °50,

 

James B. Frizzell, °$1.

_ Galen B. Fry, ’96
John B. Fulkerson, 00,

Francis E. Fuller, 32 _
Charles D. Gardner, ’26
Francis P. Gardner, ’13
John P. Gardner, 60

John E. Gates, ’37_

| Kober fg Giimer, 92 "20, ;
Leland T. Gilmore, 53

wae Clattly, 53

oe oe rd, “91

Philip J. Gord

_ Alexander E. Graham, “49
Bert Graham, "49
_ William W. Graha

_ William F. Gray, Jr., 65 —
_P. Rowland Greenwade, 67

   
   
 
 
  
   
   
   
 
     
   
 
  

Daniel B. Garrett, 66
Henry L. Garrett, 712
Bernard C. Garrison, Jr., 735
Gordon D. Gray, ’43_

 
 

Eldridge L. Gathright, ’3
Samuel * S. Calls, 59

  
 
    
   

f. : Gibson, ‘sl

   

 

William M. 7 Ginn, - - 7 add

Howard he 31

Claude T. oe 38

 

John Gonzales, 45 as
;00d1 man, "26
Fred C. Goodwin,

 
   
 
     
 
     
   
     
    

 

es & Gordon, Jr 5

 

m, 71
Forest W. Gray, Ir. 49
John B. Gray, III, 61
William D. Gray, 43

    

Charles B. Griffis, a
David R. Grogan, ’6

Duncan, G. Groner, os

 

>~ ” “2 -  —<—_
e- o

 

The Rockbridge Chapter ot the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, by authority of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is offering these
handsome ice buckets and trays for sale to raise
funds for the University. Manufactured by the
Bacova Guild, they are made of durable fiber glass
and bear the Washington and Lee crest in full
color. The ice buckets have hand-rubbed maho-
gany tops. All profit from sale of these items goes
to the scholarship fund in memory of John Gra-
ham, ’14. Income from the fund helps worthy
students attend Washington and Lee.

THE PRICES:

Large ice bucket (three gallons) $45.00 plus $2
handling and postage.

Small ice bucket (five quarts) $37.50 plus $2 handling
and postage.
Big tray, (16x21) $15.00 plus $1 handling and postage.

Small snack tray (12x17) $10 plus $1 handling and
postage.

 

Washington and Lee Ice Buckets and Trays

 

Use Order Form Below:

ROCKBRIDGE CHAPTER—W&L
P.O. Box 948
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Please send me the items checked below. Make
checks payable to Rockbridge Chapter-WeL.
[ ] Large ice bucket, $45.00 each plus $2 handling

and postage.

[ ] Small ice bucket, $37.50 each plus $2 handling
‘and postage.

[ ] Big tray, $15.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.
[ ] Snack tray, $10.00 each plus $1 handling and postage.

City and State... ee ee TD
Virginia residents add 4% sales tax.

Payment of 9.0.0... is enclosed.

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450 W |
&

 

