Re

 

the alumni

magazine of washington and lee university

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MARCH 1978

 

 

 

 

Wo
@

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 53, Number 2, March 1978

William C. Washburn, 40 .... 20... 2.022 oe Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robern S. Keele, 06... 2)... Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing,’77 .............. Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter (550 ee Editorial Assistant
Sally Manh 00660. i Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Lewis Hall Porttolio: ................tee ee l
ODK-Founders’ Day Exercises .............cccceeeeeeees 8
Fancy Dress 1977 ...ccces cose ese ee 10
Fancy Dress POStscript ..........ccsssccssesreeesseeesseeeess 13
W&L Gazette ae 14
Norm Lord o..cccccsess ag ceeaensic creme 16
Winter Sports Wrapup ........ccscceeseecesseeeseeeeeeeess 17
New Football Coach ..............ccccccccsssessssssneeceseeees 18
Pat Dennis, Basketball Star ...............ccceeecseeeeeeees 19
Chapter NeWS ........cccccessceeeseeeseesseeseeeseeenseenneenees 21
Class Notes ...005-:::6.6.4) 5 23
In. Memoriam. ...........:.6ia eee 35

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
October, and November by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpwIN J. Fo.tz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

ROBERT M. White II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President
JERRY G. Soutu,’54, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
PHIvip R. CAMPBELL, 57, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DENNY, ’52, Atlanta, Ga.

SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, °58, Richmond, Va.
MARION G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. HOLuuis, ’51, Memphis, Tenn.
Courtney R. Mauzy Jr., 61, Raleigh, N.C.
PAuL E. SANDERS, ’43, White Plains, N.Y.

ON THE COVER: A montage of Washington and Lee
insignia—a needlepoint rendering of the University
crest and a needling bumper sticker—the kind of things
one would expect to find in, say, a dormitory room.
These particular decorations, however, showed up
among the carrels of Lewis Hall, where W&L law
students spend much of their time. Photographer Sally
Mann made the picture while documenting activity in the
new building. The picture essay begins on the opposite

page.

 

 

 

 

fed

viii

 

LEWIS HALL PORTFOLIO

Lively Activity in the New Law Building Confirms Its Place Among the Finest

Lewis Hall has attracted increasing
attention ever since its dedication less
than a year ago—attention from the
Judiciary and bar, from legal educators,
and, not least, from current and
potential law students. Even before the
School of Law moved into the building
in 1976, interest in the new facility,
which is generally considered to be
among the finest in the country,
prompted a dramatic rise in numbers of
applications, even beyond the general
nationwide increase. (W&L now receives
more than 10 applications for each place

From continuing professional
education such as the client
counseling conference...

 

LEWIS HALL PORTFOLIO

... to realistic training for future
professionals provided by
moot court competitions.

 

 

 

 

 

in each fall’s entering class, and quality
has increased no less dramatically.)

Literally from the first day, when the
Fourth U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals
held formal hearings in the Moot Court
Room in conjunction with dedication
activities, Lewis Hall has been much
sought-after as a place to conduct
conferences, symposia, competitions and
the like. In terms of physical facilities,
the consensus among law educators who
have been around is that W&L and
Stanford, in that order, possess the best.
(The Lewis Hall architects, Marcellus
Wright, Cox & Ladd of Richmond, have
recently been engaged to develop a law-
school building program for
Northwestern University, for instance,
on the strength of their achievement
here.)

 

 

The level of activity in Lewis Hall in
a period of only several weeks in mid-
winter perhaps best indicates the
professional interest in the building
among judges, lawyers and lawyers-to-
be. There were three separate moot
court competitions, a major
interdisciplinary conference on the topic
of client counseling, and a regional
meeting of the American Bar
Association’s law student division.

 

Despite the growth of technological
aids to learning, such as audio-visual
equipment allowing the student to
watch himself in practice and
computer-based information
retrieval systems for research, the
most-used tool in the law library is
still the book.

    

LEWIS HALL PORTFOLIO

Learning takes place all over Lewis
Hall: in the library, classroom and
study room...

More than 60 professionals in the
field of law, medicine and counseling
attended the client counseling
conference, which was coordinated by
Lawrence D. Gaughan, W&L law
professor. All four Virginia law schools
had a hand in planning for the
conference, as did the Virginia Bar
Association, the Virginia State Bar, the
counselor education program at James
Madison, the family development
department at Virginia Tech and the
Judge Advocate General’s School in
Charlottesville. The authors of two
recent books on client counseling for
lawyers, together with three other
scholars in the fields of psychology,
psychiatry and law, made up the guest
faculty. The rest of the faculty for the
conference, designed to provide continu-
ing education for professionals, consisted
of law professors, counselors, educational
consultants and attorneys.

The regional Jessup International

4

 

... but home away from home for
most 1s the carrel.

Moot Court Competition was held in
Lewis Hall in early March. The W&L
team—John E. Coffey, William D.
Broadhurst, Jessine A. Monaghan,
Robert B. Hill and Ellen Arthur—came
in second, losing to Catholic University
by one point. Monaghan won second
place for best oral arguments. Ten
schools besides W&L—from Virginia,
Maryland, North Carolina and
Washington, D.C.—participated.

That same weekend, 10 schools
competed in Lewis Hall in the ABA-
sponsored client counseling
competitions, ultimately won by the

Or

LEWIS HALL PORTFOLIO

Lewis Hall enhances the W&L tradi-
tions of small-group meetings, close
student-faculty relationships and
the latest learning tools, combined
with something Tucker Hall had
little of—room to relax and read the
sports page...

University of Kentucky. The University
of Louisville came in second place. The
W&L team of Channing J. Martin and
Stanley G. Brading was knocked out of
the competition during the early rounds.

The fourth circuit of the law student
division of the ABA also held its
regional conference here in March,
complete with moot court competition,
workshops, and a lecture by Clark
Mollenhoff, professor of journalism at
W&L and Pulitzer Prize-winning former
Washington Bureau chief of the Des
Moines Register and Tribune. He spoke
about the case of former U.S. Attorney
David Marston in a talk on “The
Political Pitfalls of Philadelphia

6

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

 

 

 

--. Or room to house speakers of
University-wide interest, student
conventions and conferences, and
community participation in
seminars of interest to all.

Prosecution.” W&L won the regional
finals of the National Appellate
Advocacy Competition, held during the
conference. W&L law professor James
Phemister and his wife, Carol, led a
seminar and workshop on the Equal
Rights Amendment during one of the
afternoon sessions of the conference.

ODK-FOUNDERS’ DAY

29 Students and Four Leaders Are Honored During Convocation

Seventeen undergraduates, five law
students, three prominent alumni, and
the father of a recent W&L graduate
were “tapped” into membership in
Omicron Delta Kappa in January.

The honorary initiates were Walter E.
Michaels, 51, head coach of the New
York Jets; Houston H. Harte, also ’51,
chairman of the board of Harte-Hanks
Communications Inc. of San Antonio;
Stuard E. Wurzburger, ’28, a retired
New York City labor consultant who
now resides in Lexington, and W.
Martin Kempe of Orange, Va., father of
Martin A. Kempe, ’75, and chairman of
the W&L Past Parents’ Fund.

The ODK “tapping” ceremony took
place on Lee’s Birthday, Jan. 19, in
conjunction with Founders’ Day
exercises. Dr. William A. Jenks, William
R. Kenan Jr. Professor of History, was
the principal speaker; his topic was
“Other Founders.”

Dr. Jenks said that “with some
admitted strain upon logic,” parallels
could be found in the careers of V. I.
Lenin and Abdul Aziz Ibn Saud, the
founders of the Soviet Union and Saudi
Arabia.

“Most Westerners in 1918 discounted
Lenin as a shooting star, soon to
disappear,” he said, “and few knew
anything of Ibn Saud. In retrospect,
they too were founders—founders of
states widely dissimiliar today, save in
their significance to us.”

“If we fail to get along with the first,
the world may come to a rather abrupt
end,” Dr. Jenks said. “If we mismanage
our ties with the Arab Mideast, who
supply us with 25 percent of our
petroleum imports, who tend to op for
moderation in oil negotiations, we could
face panic at home and discomfiture
abroad.”

Concluding his scholarly talk, Dr.
Jenks said:

“We commemorate today a man who
could not have enjoyed that power
which sends men to their deaths in
battle. His last years might have been
exercises in futility and bitterness, as I
think Lenin’s and Ibn Saud’s were.
Rather, he was able to refound a school
which had become a shadow. And I like

8

 

Dr. Jenks addresses ODK-Founders’ Day convocation; in background are Roy L. Steinheimer, dean of the
School of Law, and Edwin Craun, assistant dean of The College.

to think that all who come to
Washington and Lee are better persons
thanks to his stay here. As citizens,
taxpayers, possibly as Congressmen,
military men or diplomats, you will have
to live with entities as complex as the
Soviet Union and Saudi Arabia.
Whatever your station in life, you can
learn from President Lee’s courage,
patience, and sense of justice:

“Courage to recognize that our
integrity as a community requires our
treasure, and if all goes badly, our
blood;

“Patience to evaluate the proposals
which come from other communities,
proud of their accomplishments, yet
aware of the catastrophe which a resort
to naked power can bring;

“A sense of justice that admits that
all is not pretty in the American past,
and yet remembers that we have shared
our material goods with, and often have
demonstrated an affection for, the
world’s distressed.

“A fearsome challenge? Yes.

“One that my generation met with
signal success? You know better.

“The sort of thing old men preach to
the young? Indubitably.

“But President Lee obviously
thought that his generation’s failure did

not preclude the next generation’s
attainments. If you spent 35 years of
your life at his college, as I have, you
have to believe that there is a reasonable
chance that the dedicated few will offset
the follies of the many.”

Omicron Delta Kappa is the national
honor society for campus leaders. It was
founded at W&L in 1914. Currently,
there are chapters at about 130 other
colleges and universities throughout the
nation.

Michaels went directly into
professional football after his
graduation from W&L, playing
successively with the Green Bay Packers
and the Cleveland Browns. He then
spent 10 seasons with the Jets as
defensive coordinator, moved to the
Philadelphia Eagles in 1972, and
rejoined the Jets in 1976 as head coach.
He was inducted as a member of the
Virginia Sports Hall of Fame last April.

Harte has been an extremely
generous supporter of both the annual
and capital fund-raising programs at
Washington and Lee. The
communications firm of which he is
chairman owns 26 daily newspapers and
54 non-daily publications in 33 markets.
It also owns three television stations and
will acquire, pending F.C.C. approval,

 

Southern Broadcasting Co., whose
holdings include radio stations in
Virginia. Harte is a regent of East Texas
State University and a former member
of the Air Force Academy board of
visitors.

Wurzburger is a former member of
the W&L Alumni Association Board of
Directors. He has been Class Agent for
1928 for several years, and that class will
set a record for participation at its 50th
reunion this spring. He is a member of
the Lee Associates.

Kempe, former vice president of The
Rochester Foundation, currently owns
and manages a farm in Orange in
central Virginia. Though he is a
graduate of Dartmouth, he was
chairman of the Parents’ Council while
his son was a student and is now head of
a new parents-of-alumni program.

Third-year law students “tapped”
were Mary Kathryn DePoy of Rutland,
Vt., editor-in-chief of the Washington and
Lee Law Review; Edward T. Duncan of
Washington Grove, Md., a Law Review
editor who ranks at the top of his class
academically; David P. Falck of
Manchester, Conn., head of the law
school’s Burks Scholars, and Jon P.
Leckerling of Huntington, N.Y.,
managing editor of the Law Review.

Undergraduate seniors “tapped” were
Jerry M. Baird of Fort Worth, assistant
head dormitory counselor; Mark A.
Bradley of Roanoke, named a Rhodes
Scholar this winter; Charles V. Brown
III of Stony Brook, N.Y., All-American
goalie on the lacrosse team; Mark H.
Derbyshire, co-captain of the soccer
team and a midfielder on the lacrosse
team; IT. Mark Duncan of Roanoke, co-
captain of the football team and
president of the Fellowship of Christian
Athletes;

Also, Charles E. Hinkle of Temple,
Tex., president and director of the W&L
Jazz Ensemble; Howard F. Knipp III of
Gibson Island, Md., vice president of the
Interfraternity Council and a varsity
wrestler; James S. McNider III of
Lynchburg, senior class vice president,
chairman of the Student Control
Committee and co-chairman of the 1980

Walter E. Michaels, ’51

 

Houston H. Harte, ’51

Mock Republican Convention; Gerald L.

Maatman Jr. of Inverness, Ill., All-
American golfer; Stephen E. Mattesky
of Carlisle, Pa., president of the IFC;
Richard W. Stein of Jacksonville,
president of the University Federation,
and John S. Strong of North Wales, Pa.,
assistant head dorm counselor and
student representative on the faculty
Courses and Degrees Committee.
Juniors elected into O.D.K.
membership were George Ballantyne of

 

 

Martin Kempe

 

 

Stuard E. Wurzburger, ’28

Houston, a three-year letterman on the
football team; Douglas A. Byrd of Baton
Rouge, a class representative on the
University Council; Malcolm G.
Coleman II of New Orleans, one of 53
Harry S Truman Scholars in the nation
and entertainment editor of the Ring-
tum Phi; William M. Webster IV of
Greenville, S.C., co-chairman of
“Contact ’78”; and Peter M. Williams of
Cincinnati, class president and vice chair-
man of the Student Control Committee.

9

FANCY DRESS 1977

Fabulous Affair Lives Up to the Glories of the Pharaohs

 

W&L students had their 71st Fancy Dress Ball the last
weekend of February—and proved that the party is still what
the New York Times once called “the outstanding collegiate
social event of the South.”

The music was provided by Duke Ellington’s band. (Fancy
Dress’s impressarios, sophomore Art Dunnam and senior Jim
Foreman, told the Reng-tum Phi that the word they received
was that the crowd enjoyed the old Ellington standard songs
more than the more modern music.) Evans Hall and the
adjoining Student Center were exquisitely and elaborately
decorated in line with this year’s theme, “The Glories of
Egypt.” (The Fancy Dress Committee didn’t overlook
anything to make it a never-to-be-forgotten evening. Couples
even received a pair of souvenir coins specially made for the
affair.)

There were about 3,000 people at the ball—mostly in
tuxes and gowns, but a noticeable number in full evening
dress. Jerry Darrell, the popular manager of W&L’s food

10

services, staged a candlelight dinner just before Fancy Dress
in the University dining hall and a hangover brunch the next
day.

Fancy Dress began the day before the Ball, with fraternity
and other small-group parties and a Student Activities Board
concert with the Four Tops that night. Partying continued
through the weekend, highlighted, as usual, by the
schoolwide Saturday afternoon get-together at Zollman’s
Pavillion on the Buffalo Creek just outside town. (One of
Fancy Dress Weekend’s fans must be Mother Nature. The
bitter cold broke just long enough for the party at the river,
with the temperature way up in the 50s. The same thing
happened last year, too.) A Washington Post reporter who
had been at Fancy Dress last year came back again this year
(his brother is a W&L sophomore) and wrote a story
headlined “THE PARTY: College-Wide Bash Makes
Rousing Comeback,” mostly about the Buffalo Creek party,
and although he did point out that working hard during the

Fancy Dress was fancier and dressier this year than ever. They came in
costumes ranging from Fred Astaire white tie to Lawrence of Arabia
desert duds (facing page). The exotic decorations included a genuine
belly dancer who was the favorite decoration of everyone who could get
into the Cockpit to see her; clearly she was the hit of the evening in the
eyes of Dr. William J. Watt, Dean of The College (immediately above). A
concert by the Four Tops, who have become practically a fixture at
W&L big weekends, inaugurated Fancy Dress Weekend (top right).
Ball-goers were wall-to-wall the next evening (lower right).

   

 

week and partying hard on the weekends “has become a
tradition, almost a credo, at Washington and Lee,” some
people weren’t amused at the publicity over some of the
crazier antics at the creekside party. (The Ring-tum Phi
dismissed the Post article as “typically slanderous,” and
Charley McDowell, who heads up the Richmond Times-
Dispatch’s Washington, D.C., coverage and who insists that
no Fancy Dress can possibly top the 1947 ball he vividly
remembers, genially teased the Post reporter, in an article
reprinted in this magazine, for only now discovering “that a
lot of ‘dancing, drinking and carousing’ goes on during a
college dance weekend.”)

But Fancy Dress is best told in pictures. Four W&L
photographers covered it this year—Sally Mann, head
photographer; David Abrams, ’78, and Nancy Spencer at the
Ball, and Douglass W. Dewing, ’77, assistant publications
director for the University, at the river party Saturday.
These are some of their photographs.

11

 

Alumni and other older types will be glad to see
proof (top left) that W&L undergraduates still
actually can dance—and do. They were
perhaps inspired by the mellow sounds of Duke
Ellington’s orchestra (immediately above). The
decorations were intricate and extensive; the
chairman of the Student Activities Board, Bill
Tucker, reports they used 2% acres of paper
and 1,250 square feet of gold foil, a third of a
mile of wire to light 749 bulbs, two gallons of
glue, four pounds of nails and two pounds of
glitter; they bought four bales of hay for the
camel they rented (we told you it was authentic
right down to the ultimate details!) and 54 kegs
of beer for the humans. The next day, every-
body took it easy at the traditional afternoon-
after party on the banks of the Buffalo Creek
outside Lexington (left).

 

 

 

By Charles McDowell, ’48

FANCY DRESS POSTSCRIPT

Washington’s Presence in Lexington: Look and You Shall Find

 

 

 

 

 

Peale portrait

Old George

This column by CharlesR. McDowell Jr., a
1948 graduate of Washmgton and Lee,
appeared im the Richmond ‘Times-
Dispatch on March 2, 1978, and is re-
printed with permission.

A reporter for the Washington Post
recently attended “Fancy Dress” week-
end at Washington and Lee University
in Lexington and wrote a story in which
he disclosed that a lot of “dancing,
drinking and carousing” goes on during
a college dance weekend.

The story was less banal-than that
really. It was lively in some of its specific
observations and interesting in its view
of generational fluctuations in college
partying over the years. Anyhow, I am
not in a mood to challenge the author’s
facts or theme.

But I do have a quibble. A reporter
from a grand Washington paper, ven-
turing deep into the Valley of Virginia
on a sociological mission probably
would expect at least a quibble from
somebody like me—a resident for my
first 22 years of the town he visited and
an alumnus of the college he wrote
about.

The following paragraph from the
story is the subject of my quibble:

‘Tt’s a sheltered community, always has
been,’’ said one old grad. Politically con-
servatwe, Lexmgton has pictures of Robert
E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson promimently
displayed around town. (‘How come there
aren't any pictures of Washington?’’ one
date wondered. “I don’t know. There just
aren’t,’’ her escort answered.)

I have no doubt that those quotes are
legitimate. But because no effort is
made to give perspective to the quotes,
I would say the paragraph suggests that
Lexington is a silly old holdout for the
glory of Southern rebellion, a town so

 

Stuart portrait

backward and conservative that it
doesn’t properly appreciate the father
of the federal republic.

It is true that Robert E. Lee is well-
represented around town in paintings
and sculpture and in some marvelous
prints by a pioneer photographer,
Michael Miley. You see, Lee went to
Lexington after the Civil War to be
president of the college. He lived in
Lexington, died in Lexington and is
buried in Lexington. Some considerable
continuing interest in him strikes me as
normal and not necessarily sociologic-
ally significant.

As for Stonewall Jackson, he was a
roomer for a time on the college cam-
pus (in a house I later lived in without
swearing allegiance to the Confeder-
acy), and he was a teacher at the neigh-
boring Virginia Military Institute. He,
too, is buried in Lexington.

I am not sure that George Washing-
ton ever came any closer to Lexington
than Natural Bridge, 14 miles away,
and, to be frank, I am not convinced it
was he who carved his initials in the
bridge. Washington did give $50,000
worth of canal stock to the college in
1796, the largest endowment laid ona
college up until then. It was appreciated
and still is, and so is Washington the
man.

The young lady who didn’t see any
pictures of Washington and her escort
who said there aren’t any betray limited
range and curiosity. Perhaps the most
famous portrait of Washington,
Charles Willson Peale’s of 1772, hangs
prominently in Lee Chapel, of all
places. It really isn’t a parochial picture.
It was lent to the National Portrait Gal-
lery (right here in Washington) a couple
of years ago to be the central piece in
the bicentennial exhibition.

In Admissions Office

  

In President’s Office

A Gilbert Stuart portrait of Wash-
ington hangs in the Washington and
Lee library. The young man in the
newspaper story ought to have seen it,
although the girl and the reporter
probably should be forgiven.

There are dozens of other Washing-
ton pictures in Lexington, and there
are several famous sculptures. I sup-
pose sculptures count as symbols of re-
spect. Anyway, “Old George,” a massive
wood carving, stands atop the main
building of the college.

VMI has a Houdoun statue of Wash-
ington. The president of Washington
and Lee has a bust of Washington in
his office, and there is another in the
admissions office.

A booklet readily available in town
gives the following standings on im-
portant sculptures in Lexington:
Washington, 6, Lee, 5, Jackson, 4.

But enough of fine art, I want to
disagree with the notion that Lexington
is sheltered. It has two colleges, and the
comings and goings of their students
and faculties create a continuing stir.
‘The town receives television and news-
papers, and fairly regularly is host to
lecturers, wandering politicians and
big-city reporters.

As for the idea that. Lexington is
conservative politically, that has to be a
relative judgement. I would say it is
moderate and enlightened, but I am
prejudiced. Many of the conservatives
in the surrounding county of Rock-
bridge would say Lexington is radical-
liberal.

If anything 1s clear to me after living
in both Lexington and Washington, it
is that Lexington has the broader and
less self-conscious view of the world, in-
cluding the place in it of pictures of
Washington, Lee and Jackson.

 

 

13

GAZETTE

Farrar Moves to New Alumni/Admissions Post

Ce

James D. Farrar, W&L’s director of
admissions for the past 16 years,
resigned that position in March to
assume new duties as the University’s
coordinator of alumni for student
recruitment.

The University began a search for a
new admissions director immediately,
and hopes to name a successor to Farrar
in that position by the end of the
current academic year. Dr. Lewis G.
John, dean of students, will continue to
act as admissions director in the interim.
Dr. John’s office has overall
responsibility for both student affairs
and admissions.

In his new position, Farrar will
greatly expand the use of alumni—both
as individuals and through organized
alumni chapters—in seeking to
attract qualified students to attend
W&L. He will work closely with both
Director of Development Farris P.
Hotchkiss and Alumni Secretary William
C. Washburn in drawing on “the
enthusiasm and energy of Washington
and Lee’s far-flung alumni,” Farrar said.

“For many years, we have seen
effective use made of alumni by other
colleges and universities. While W&L
has been able to make only limited
efforts along these lines so far, our
experience clearly indicates that we have
a large untapped source of help in our
alumni, if we can coordinate and direct
their efforts properly.”

Farrar said he views his new duties as
“a challenging change. I’ll be working in
an area that requires the kind of
professional guidance and coordination
to which I can bring my experience in
admissions and my knowledge of
Washington and Lee’s constituencies.”

Noting his length of service in the
admissions directorship, Farrar said his
resignation stemmed from his
conclusion that “the job is one that no
person should hold indefinitely, both
because of the pressures it entails and
the need for new perspectives in student
recruitment and selection.”

President Huntley praised Farrar’s
“dedicated and skillful service”
throughout the 16 years he was
admissions director. “Jim Farrar is one
of Washington and Lee’s great strengths
and resources. For 26 years he has
performed invaluable service to the

14

 

James D. Farrar

University, and I am grateful to know
that he will continue to do so in the
years to come.” He said Farrar is better
qualified to undertake the new
alumni/admissions responsibilities than
anyone else.

A 1949 W&L graduate, Farrar joined
the staff in 1952 as assistant admissions
director. When the late Dean Frank J.
Gilliam retired as admissions director in
1962, Farrar succeeded him in that
position and was also made associate
dean of students.

 

UCLA law teacher named
head of Lewis Law Center

A leading international law
authority, Frederic L. Kirgis Jr., has
been named the first director of W&L’s
Frances Lewis Law Center.

Kirgis is currently professor of law at
the University of California at Los
Angeles, where he has taught since
1973. He was visiting professor of law at
W&L last autumn. He will assume his
new duties at Washington and Lee Aug.
1, according to Roy L. Steinheimer Jr.,
dean of the W&L School of Law, who
announced Kirgis’ appointment.

The Frances Lewis Law Center was

established through a $2-million
endowment in 1972 from Frances and
Sydney Lewis of Richmond. Mr. and
Mrs. Lewis gave $9 million in all to
Washington and Lee’s law program, $7
million of which supported construction
of the University’s new law building,
named for them.

Kirgis received his undergraduate
education at Yale University and his law
degree from Berkeley. He was an
associate in the Washington, D.C., law
firm of Covington & Burling,
specializing in international claims, prior
to entering teaching. He was a member
of the law faculty at the University of
Colorado from 1967 until he joined the
UCLA law faculty seven years later, and
spent a year’s leave of absence in
research study at the London School of
Economics.

He is the author of International
Organizations in Their Legal Setting:
Documents, Comments and Questions, and is
currently working on a book on
international consultation, scheduled for
publication next year.

The Frances Lewis Law Center is
designed to function in support of
W&L’s law faculty and students both
inside and outside the formal law-school
curriculum. W&L faculty may be able to
take sabbaticals to work full-time on law-
center research projects; there may be
research programs for students and
summer research opportunities for
faculty members. Visiting scholars may
be brought to the law center in residence
for a semester or academic year or for
the summer; there may be visiting
attorneys’ and visiting judges’ programs
as well. Special-topic seminars and
conferences will also be conducted
under the sponsorship of the law center.

 

Exhibitions

Recent exhibitions of artworks by
W&L people:

—Black-and-white photos by W&L’s
prize-winning head photographer, Sally
Mann, were on display this winter both
in duPont Gallery on campus and in
New York City’s Pfeifer Gallery. Among
the prints on display in both exhibitions
were a number of her rare platinum

prints, several traditional silver prints of
landscapes and other familiar
Rockbridge scenes, and examples from a
new series of abstract photos on which
she is currently working.

—A photo-essay on the development
of French cathedrals in the middle ages
was exhibited in duPont Gallery for part
of March, and the deputy cultural
counselor to the French Embassy,
Roland Husson, visited W&L for the
opening.

—Photos by Frank A. Parsons,
assistant to President Huntley, and
paintings by Mrs. Ralph Daves of
Lexington, mother-in-law of S L Kopald,
a member of the Board of Trustees,
were on display in the W&L Bookstore.

—Photographs by David Abrams, a
senior journalism major who is a student
assistant in the W&L News Office, were
on display in a one-man show in January
at the Roanoke Fine Arts Center.

 

New poetry editor
named by Shenandoah

Richard Howard, Pulitzer Prize-
winning poet and former poetry editor
of American Review, has been named the
new poetry editor of Washington and Lee’s
quarterly literary review Shenandoah.
Howard, who is also president of the
American chapter of P.E.N., the
international association of literary
writers, succeeds Eleanor Ross Taylor as
poetry chief of W&L’s award-winning
magazine.

Howard, a frequent visitor to
campus, was here most recently in
March for a reading from his own works
in a program sponsored jointly by
Shenandoah and the Glasgow
Endowment for the creative arts.

 

Other visitors

Other visitors to campus this winter
have included:

—Robert P. Clark, executive editor
of the Louisville (Ky.) Courier-Journal
and Times, for two days of meetings with
W&L journalism students, and to deliver
a public talk on the topic “Our
Beleaguered Press: Ethics on Trial,”
sponsored by the Society and The
Professions ethics program;

—Robert W. Greene, a senior editor
of Newsday (Long Island) and director of
the so-called “Arizona Project,” a team
of 20 journalists who followed up the
investigation of crime in that state which
cost fellow reporter Don Bolles his life,

for a two-day symposium involving
W&L students and professional
reporters, and for a public talk,
“Exploring the Impossible—A Search
for Journalism Ethics,” also sponsored
by the Society and The Professions
program;

—John F. Melby, a career American
foreign service officer with extensive
experience in the Far East, including the
chairmanship of joint State-Defense
Department missions in the Phillipines
and Southeast Asia, for a lecture, “The
Chinese Civil War Revisited,” sponsored
by W&L’s East Asian Studies Program;

—Gerald C. Loucks, vice president of
Sunburst Exploration Inc. of Denver, on
the topic of searching for oil in geologic
formations similar to those in the
Rockbridge area, sponsored by the
geology department;

—Pianist Richard Collins for a
concert of 20th-century works by Berg,
Schoenberg, Busoni and Ives, sponsored
by the Concert Guild; and

—Charles H. Breecher, a former
officer with the State Department, the
Agency for International Development
(AID) and NATO, for a talk on “The
Constitutionality of the Panama Canal
Treaties.”

 

Phi Beta Kappa taps 25

W&L’s chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
has elected 14 undergraduate seniors,
10 juniors and one 1977 graduate to
membership.

They were initiated into the
academic honor society at Phi Beta

Sc aa =

Construction on the new $9.26-million li

 

brary—with a capacity of 500,000 volumes and individual study

Kappa Day ceremonies in March. David
D. Bien, a 1951 W&L graduate who is
now chairman of the history department
at the University of Michigan, was the
speaker at the convocation.

Phi Beta Kappa initiates from the
senior class were David T. Adams of
Panama City, U.S. Canal Zone; Walter
P. Benda of Austinville, Va.; Hall B.
Clark of San Antonio; William J.
Edwards of King George, Va.; Bill R.
Fenstemaker of Warren, N.J.; Robert F.
Hedelt Jr. of Warsaw, Va.; David J.
McLean of Rutherford, N.J.; Gerald L.
Maatman of Inverness, Ill.; Glenn A.
Miller of Rockville, Md.; Mark L.
Mitchell of Blacksburg, Va.; Robert W.
Moorhead of Denver; Robert N.
Mucciola of Windber, Pa.; Keith A. Teel
of Dublin, Ga., and James M. Underhill
of Babylon, N.Y.

Elected from the junior class were
Robert E. Atkinson Jr. of Kingstree,
S.C.; Douglas A. Byrd of Baton Rouge;
Malcolm G. Coleman II of New Orleans;
Michael F. Follo of Gadsden, Ala.:
Harry F. Hoke III of Richmond;
Edward U. Kissel of Birmingham; John
R. Lewis Jr. of Natural Bridge; Larry P.
McNulty of Nicktown, Pa.; David
Randolph Scott of Grosse Point, Mich.,
and James R. Shoemaker of Frederick,
Md.

Robert A. Ford, a 1977 graduate,
was also elected to membership in the
W&L Phi Beta Kappa chapter.

Bien, who earned his Ph.D. at
Harvard, spoke on the topic “Time’s
Perspective and the Problem of
Understanding: The French
Revolution’s Enemies.”

   

areas for 800 students—remains ahead of schedule. Occupancy of the new building is scheduled for the
Christmas holidays in December. Then, McCormick will be remodeled for the Commerce School and Newcomb

Hall renovated for The College.

15

NORM LORD

W&L’s High Priest of Total Fitness

“I’ve never seen Norm Lord
at rest,” says Jim Farrar, who’s
been pretty energetic himself
in admissions work at W&L for
26 years. “The man isa horse.
He never stops.”

Lord has been going strong
ever since he joined the faculty
at W&L in 1946. Whatever he
does—teaching, coaching,
running or officiating—“he
always does it 101 percent.”

Lord’s_ inexhaustible en-
thusiasm for sports, his posi-
tive attitude, and his belief in
what he calls the “euphoria of
fitness,” have made him a
paragon at W&L.

“You have to take a Norm
Lord course. He’s a legend,”
said Michael Gallagher, ’79,
editor of the Ring-tum Phi.

These days Coach Lord is
deeply involved in teaching
aerobics, which used to be
called running. Students from
earlier years probably recall
his hearty welcome at fresh-
man camp.

“He’d come out to Natural
Bridge with all kinds of
equipment and set up an elab-

orate physical competition in-
volving everything from bad-
minton to football called the
‘Olympic Games,’ ” Farrar re-
members. “He would intro-
duce the other coaches and al-
ways had some kind of story

about the origin of their sport.

He told the kids soccer de-
veloped from a skirmish be-
tween the Romans and Gauls.
When someone was decapi-
tated during the fight, the ex-
cited victors started kicking the
head around.”

According to Lord, cheer-
leading was born when a fren-
zied group of Englishmen
cheered Lady Godiva’s bare-
backed approach into Coven-
try.

Other alumni may remem-
ber Lord as coach of the suc-
cessful track teams from 1955
to 1967 or as the coordinator
of team trips to other colleges.
With characteristic thorough-
ness, he planned for every-
thing—even “rest stops” were
thoughtfully included for the
comfort of the traveling ath-
letes.

“In all those years, he never
missed a detail, except for

16

 

 

once,” said Frank Parsons, as-
sistant to the president and a
pretty fair detail man himself.
“Coming back from a trip to
Sewanee, he forgot about the
time-zone change and we had
to race to catch the train at
Chattanooga. But that was his
only oversight ever!”

Students today either mar-
vel or joke about Lord’s thor-
oughness. “He treats his
courses with such serious-
ness,” says Gallagher. “At the
beginning of the term, he
hands out a syllabus. He gives
assignments, homework and
handouts in class. It’s just like
being in the Commerce
School!”

There are plenty of student
stories about his classes. Re-
gardless of what is being
taught, Lord includes physical
fitness tests, heartbeat and
pulse rate checks at the be-
ginning and at the end of the
term and a series of intraclass
competitions including the
“Telegraph Tournament,”
run over long distances by
telegram; the “Tombstone
Tournament,” an _ all-day
event testing stamina; and a

 

“Co-ed Tournament.” In the
last-named, dates are required
to participate, fostering Lord’s
philosophy of “Fun, Fitness
and Friendship.”

Many students take Lord’s
courses not because they want
to develop a particular sports
skill, but just to get in shape.
“You get results from Coach
Lord,” said Bill Kerr, a 1977
graduate. “I took squash and
lost my beergut.”

Lord uses class tournaments
and fitness tests to keep his
students’ interest while they
improve physically, and he has
applied the same techniques
to his aerobics course.

“If you run the same course,
it gets boring,” he says. So he
mapped out a series of courses
throughout Lexington and
Rockbridge County which
might be compared to historic
walking tours—except the
students run. Students have
the choice of seven courses.
‘The Stonewall Jackson, an in-
nercity run, pays tribute to the
Civil War hero by covering all
the Lexington buildings and
shrines associated with him—
including the Jackson Arch
and statue at VMI, the Lee-
Jackson House on the W&L
campus, the Jackson House on
Washington Street, Stonewall
Jackson Hospital, and the
Stonewall Jackson Cemetery.

The House Mountain run
takes students out into the
county—they are allowed to
drive to the base of the moun-
tain—and up and over one of
the county’s most scenic land-
marks.

Lord practices what he
preaches. He runs every day
no matter where he is. “I’ve
run in parking lots in Detroit,”
he says, “on hotel roofs in
Tokyo, in strawberry patches
in Norway and cemeteries in
Copenhagen.” He believes in
his own gospel. “There may
be better forms of exercise, but
for total fitness, running is
tops.”

Frederic Schwab, professor
of geology and another avid
runner, once overheard stu-
dents talking about the aero-
bics course. At the beginning
of the term Coach Lord told
them “This is the best course
you'll ever have at W&L.” One
student said he thought Lord
was kidding at first, “but by
the end of the term I agreed
with him.”

Schwab credits Lord not

 

only with promoting fitness
among students but in the
faculty and staff as well. “He’s
teaching us all how to fight
middle age.”

Lord hasn’t confined the
fight to the locker room, gym
or athletic field. Although it
was more than a decade ago,
many faculty members  re-
member an impassioned
speech he gave at a faculty
meeting to protest a proposal
to do away with physical edu-
cation requirements. Lord
argued that it was important
to preserve a program of fit-
ness at W&L because Ameri-
can society was being overrun
by machines and man was al-
ready too dependent on them.
At the climax of the speech he
asked his audience “What will
you choose?” and held up a
stopwatch, representing fit-
ness, and an electric tooth-
brush, signifying decadence.
The faculty voted for the
stopwatch, and the physical
education requirement stayed
on the books—the only man-
datory requirement left at
WEL.

No picture of Coach Lord
would be accurate if he
weren't wearing his referee’s
whistle. For 38 years, he has
officiated for every sport “ex-
cept ice hockey and _ horse
polo” and at every level “from
the majors to girls’ basket-
ball.”

“Norm is considered the
best track and swimming
starter in the state. He’s been
a leading Southern Confer-
ence football official for
years,” said Farrar, who has
officiated with Lord at many
games since Lord taught him
as a student.

“It’s impossible for him to
overlook a penalty,” laughed
Farrar. “I remember the time
Norm officiated at a little
junior varsity game against St.
Christopher’s about five or six
years ago. He was down the
field when he saw a penalty
upfield. He threw his hand-
kerchief and was running
toward the players when the
W&L coach called out from
the bench, ‘What was that for?’
He hesitated for a split sec-
ond—because he didn’t see the
penalty exactly but he knew
there was one—and then an-
swered, ‘A flicker, that was a
flicker’ and ran on. That’s
Norm.”

—Jan Shivel

»

By Bill Schnier

Sports Information Director

WINTER SPORTS REVIEW

Basketball Team Has Banner Season; Swimmers and Wrestlers Excel

The 1977-78 basketball Generals won
both the regular season and tournament
championships in the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference this winter, had
their second consecutive 20-plus-victory
season, and won the first NCAA post-
season game in the University’s history.
The team finished the season with a 22-
6 record.

For the third time in the last four
years, W&L went to the NCAA South-
Atlantic Regional tournament. The
Generals won the semifinal game against
Jersey State City State College, 66-65. In
the championship game, W&L was
defeated by host Kean College, 80-64.
Entering that final game, the Generals
had won 12 of their last 13 contests.

Senior guard Pat Dennis, a 1977-78
co-captain, was named Outstariding
Player in the South-Atlantic Regional
tournament. He had 29 points ih the
Jersey City win and 30 in the loss to
Kean. Those 59 points gave him an even
700 for the year, breaking the school
record for points in one season of 656,
set by Jay Handlan, ’52, 27 years ago.
Dennis finished his W&L career with
1,428 points, seventh on the all-time
W&L scoring list.

A third-team All-American last
season, Dennis averaged 25.0 points a
game this season and was named the
ODAC Player of the Year for the second
straight season. A potential first-team
All-American this year, he would be the
first W&L first-team selection since Dom
Flora, ’58.

Junior forward Dave Leunig was
named second-team all-ODAC this
season and set a school record with a
free throw percentage of .852. Junior
point guard Mike Wenke passed off for
259 assists in 1977-78, anew W&L
mark, and now has 548 career assists,
also a W&L record. Sophomore forward
Larry Meyer’s .553 field goal percentage
was the fourth highest in W&L history,
while the team’s average of 88.9 points
per game is the highest ever.

The basketball Generals received
honorable mention in every NCAA
Division III national poll this season.
Last year they finished the year ranked

fourth nationally, but failed to win an
NCAA game.

Included in this year’s wins were
three each over Lynchburg and
Bridgewater.

The wrestling Generals won the
ODAC title and captured Wrestler of
the Year honors with junior Ed Rodgers.
The team finished with a 9-8 record and
defeated VMI, James Madison and the
three ODAC opponents. It was the
second straight year W&L took the
conference title. Seven other wrestlers
won all-conference honors. Rodgers won
24 matches, one shy of the school
record.

Sophomore Ray Gross (142 lb.) was
22-9-] this year, second best on the
team. Other double figures winners for
W&L were Dan Kniffen (190), 18-14;
Warren Mowry (ULT.), 15-13; Howdy
Knipp (126), 14-11-1; and Jim Flippen

 

Junior tri-captai Ed Rodgers was named ODAC Wrestler of the Year.

(150) and Tom Oxendine (177), both at
12-14.

Rodgers, Gross, Knipp and Kniffen
competed in the NCAA Division III
national championships. Only Knipp
won a match.

The W&L swimmers set three state
records in the state meet and took third
place, behind Richmond and Virginia
Tech. They finished their season with a
10-1 dual meet record, their best ever,
losing only to Richmond. Among the
opponents defeated were Division I
schools James Madison, VMI, Virginia
Tech, George Washington, William and
Mary, Virginia Commonwealth and Old
Dominion.

At press time, seven W&L swimmers
were competing in the Division III
nationals in Grinell, Iowa. Senior 13-
time All-American John Hudson
qualified in the 200, 500 and 1,650 yard

  
  

 

17

SPORTS REVIEW

freestyle events. Co-captain Keith
Romich qualified in the 100 and 200
yard freestyle and the 200 yard
butterfly.

Other W&L national qualifiers were
Drew Pillsbury in the 100 and 200
backstroke and the 400 individual
medley, Chip Hoke in the 500 and 1650
freestyle and the 400 individual medley,
Bob Newcomb in the 100 and 200
freestyle, and freshman Jay Diesing in
the one meter diving. The 400 free relay
team of Newcomb, Scott Duff, Romich
and Hudson also qualified.

Hudson, Romich, Duff and Hoke are |

all returning All-Americans. Last year,
W&L finished ninth nationally and had
five All-Americans on the roster.

The indoor track and field team
finished third in the ODAC Indoor
Championships. Junior Phil Dunlay was
all-conference in the 35 pound weight
toss event. The two mile relay team of
Richard Bill, John Morris, Bill Welch
and Chris Daniel also won all-
conference standing.

The 1978 spring season opened on
March 6th with Duke upsetting the
lacrosse Generals, 12-10. The stickmen
had an exhibition against Mount
Washington on March 11 and were to be
at home for four games, beginning
March 20 with Ohio State.

 

13-tume All-American J] ohn Hudson
18

 

NEW FOOTBALL COACH

Gary R. Fallon Comes to W&L From Princeton

Gary R. Fallon, most recently
offensive coordinator at Princeton
University, is Washington and Lee’s new
head football coach. He had been a
member of the Princeton coaching staff
since 1972.

Fallon, 37, a 1962 graduate of
Syracuse University succeeded William
D. (Bill) McHenry, who stepped down as
W&L’s head coach at the end of the
1977 season to devote his full time to his
duties as athletic director and head of
the physical education department.
Fallon was also appointed an associate
professor of physical education at W&L.

McHenry, in announcing Fallon’s
appointment said, “We are very
fortunate to obtain the services of Gary
Fallon. He brings to Washington and
Lee an exceptionally fine football
background which spans a coaching
career at several levels. Gary, as an Ivy
League coach at Princeton, has worked
with the type of students and alumni we
have here at W&L, and his basic
coaching and teaching philosophy
regarding Division III football should
enhance our position in years to come.”

Fallon is the 30th head coach in the
93-year history of football at
Washington and Lee. He was chosen
after an exhaustive search that began in
November and continued into January.
“We were most impressed,” McHenry
said, “by the quality and quantity of the
applicants for the position.”

Fallon was Princeton’s offensive
backfield coach and receiver coach
before becoming offensive coordinator
last season. For three years prior to his
term at Princeton, Fallon was assistant
football coach and offensive coordinator
at Ithaca College and also assistant
lacrosse and assistant wrestling coach.

He received his B. A. in physical
education from Syracuse in 1962 and his
M. A. in special education from there in
1967. At Syracuse, he was an honorable
mention All-East fullback in 1961, and

 

the Syracuse teams on which he played
went to the Cotton Bowl in 1959 and to

the Liberty Bowl in 1961. He was
captain of the 1962 Syracuse lacrosse
team and was chosen to play in the
North-South All-Star lacrosse game. He
was also a wrestler at Syracuse.

After graduation, he spent the 1962
season with the Minnesota Vikings of
the National Football League and with
the Hamilton Ti-Cats of the Canadian
Football League. He was a member of
the Toronto Argonauts of the CFL in
1963, and he also played semi-pro
football as a runningback and linebacker
with the Syracuse Stormers of the
Continental League and Mohawk Valley
and Scranton of the Atlantic Coast
League.

A native of Watertown, N. Y., Fallon
is married to the former Patricia Grant;
they have three daughters, Kelly, 15,
Carrie, 13, and Susan, 10.

 

This article by Steve Waid appeared mm the
Roanoke Times & World News on March

4, 1978, just before WSL played its first
game in the NCAA Dwision III South
Atlantic Regional tournament. Excerpts are
reprinted with permission.

Pat Dennis has those well-scrubbed,
big-smile good looks that some smart ad
executive might want to use ina
Pepsodent ad, or something like that.

You know his type: solid college
student, good upbringing, industrious,
pleasant personality. Odds are he was an
altar boy when he was a kid, maybe even
a Boy Scout—or both.

But there’s considerably more to Pat
Dennis than being the image of Jack
Armstrong. In the first place, he’d
probably cringe if he thought everyone
pegged him for the All-American boy.

Secondly, he is perhaps the most
outstanding basketball player to come to
Washington and Lee in two decades.

In a career that has spanned three
varsity seasons and will last as long as

 

the Generals advance in the NCAA
basketball playoffs, Dennis has
established himself as the complete
player.

In the last two seasons, during which
Dennis has metamorphisized into the
premier player he is, W&L has won 46
games and lost only 10. It has won the
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
basketball championship three straight
years and has been an NCAA post-
season entry in three of the last four
years.

In three seasons, Dennis has:

e Moved into seventh place on the
W&L all-time scoring list with 1,369
points. [He wound up with 1,428.]

e Moved from a 4.8 points a game
average in 1975-76 to a 24.7 average this
season.

@ Come well within range of the
single-season scoring record of 656.
Dennis has 641 points and needs only 16
more to break the mark. [He set the
record with 700 season points. ]

e Been named a third-team All-

By Steve Waid

PAT DENNIS

Basketball Star Proves
That Good Athletes Do
Find Happiness at W&L

American in 1976-77 as well as the
Virginia College Division Player of the
Year in the same season.

e Earned the ODAC Player of the
Year title twice in succession.

e Taken second place on the
General’s squad in rebounds with 6.1
per game—and he is a guard.

e Established a school record in
shooting percentage by hitting 57.4
percent of his shots last season.

e Let none of the above go to his
head.

In fact, Dennis’ beginning at W&L
was downright humble.

“I remember I applied to the school
because my parents knew about it and I
knew some friends who went here,”
said Dennis. “I had heard of
Washington and Lee at home (Towson,
Md.), when the lacrosse team would
come up there to play.”

At Loyola High School in Towson,
Dennis’ basketball ability was
camouflaged. He was the third guard on
a Catholic league team that played

19

PAT DENNIS

routine, unspectacular basketball.

“We would walk the ball down the
floor and then set up for a good shot,”
said Dennis. “We would go up against
Baltimore schools like Dunbar with Skip
Wise and play like that. I didn’t get to
play much so I knew I wasn’t getting
much notice.

“In fact, I didn’t draw much attention
from the colleges. Washington College
in Maryland was the only school that
showed an interest in my basketball
ability, but I guess that might have been
because I applied there.”

When Dennis selected W&L, he had
no idea that the school’s basketball style
would complement him as it has.

Dennis was fully indoctrinated into a
freewheeling, running attack when he
came to W&L four years ago. It called
for constant movement on offense in the
search for the open man.

Dennis liked it immediately. “I
preferred the quicker tempo,” he said.
“And in my first year, I played on the
junior varsity team. That might have
been the most important season for me.
Coach (Dennis) Bussard worked with me
and I began to get a whole lot of play.

“I found myself getting better and
better because I grew more confident. I
felt I was helping the team and things
were falling into place.”

Sull, Dennis was by no means the

player he is now. When he moved up to |

the varsity three years ago, he was as
nervous as one might expect when he
got into his first game.

“[ was playing behind John Podgajny
and I got in when it was time for him to
take a rest,” Dennis recalled. “I went out
there and started pressing because I felt
I had to do something while I was in
there.

“My first shot was a 25-footer from
the wing: It was an air ball. That was
embarrassing.”

For Dennis, air balls have been as rare
as meat loaf at a vegetarians’ convention
since that day. Dennis is the compleat
shooter, with the ability to hit from just
about anywhere on the floor.

“IT have always considered myself a
good shooter,” Dennis said “But when I
got here, I learned to score in more

20

 

different ways. I learned to shoot inside
and to play the post. I’ve done both a lot
more than I did in high school.”

Dennis at present carries a 24.7
scoring average and is hitting at a 52.9
percent clip. Those are more than
impressive Statistics.

But at W&L, basketball, while
competitive, is still on the NCAA
Division III level. At that level, good city
players aren't lured by scholarships
because there are none available. They
are forbidden by the NCAA as Division
III schools are small and have tight
budgets.

Considering that, would Pat Dennis
be the player he is now at say, North
Carolina or Virginia?

“You often watch those teams play on
television and you see the players that
get a great deal of the attention,” mused
Dennis. “I’ve often thought as I was
sitting there how I would do in another
situation—like at one of those schools.

“But I would not trade the situation I

have here for one at a bigger school with
a bigger program. I’m content here.

“And at the big schools, you can find
yourself starting one year and then
they'll bring in a high school All-
American the next year and you'll be on
the bench. You are out of a job.”

At W&L, much the same as it is at any
other comparable school, the players
have their goals and work toward them
with the intensity shared by their fellow
players in higher classifications.

“People look at Division III and say
we're just out here playing,” said
Dennis. “But we are working as hard as
the major schools. Sure, we don’t have
the overall talent and quickness of big
schools but, for us, working for the
ODAC championship and an NCAA
berth is just as important as winning the
ACC is for Maryland or North Carolina,
no matter how many people bother to
take an interest in us.”

The Generals’ next goal is to win in
the NCAA, something they have failed
to do in their previous two tries. [They
beat Jersey City State College in the
semifinal and lost to Kean College in the
final. |

“We’re working hard to win,” said
Dennis. “Last year, we felt pressure
because we were ranked fourth when
the playoffs got under way and we felt
we had to win. This year, we don’t feel
that way. I think we are peaking just in
time.”

Dennis’ career has been a satisfying
one, he says, but there’s always some
concern over the future.

“In one way or another, I’ve played
basketball every day since I was a
freshman in high school,” he said.
“When it’s all over here, I would like to
try and play in Europe because
realistically, I don’t feel I have the talent
to play in the NBA.

“But whatever happens, it is going to
be tough to give up basketball. I’m not
sure I’m going to know what to do
without it when the time comes to go out
into the world and get a job.”

And it’s a safe bet that for a good
while, Washington and Lee basketball
isn’t going to know quite what to do
without Pat Dennis.

CHAPTER NEWS

Lacrosse Coach Emmer Is Winner of ’78 Lynchburg Citation

LYNCHBURG. Jack Emmer, head
coach of Washington and Lee’s
nationally ranked lacrosse team since
1973, received the 1978 Lynchburg
Citation, regarded as the most important
honor any alumni chapter can bestow,
during the chapter meeting Feb. 18.
The annual banquet was held at the
Fine Arts Center and the convivial
crowd quickly forgot the threat of
imminent snowfall during the cocktail
hour. Following the buffet dinner,
Rodger W. Fauber, ’63, presided over a
brief business meeting. Dr. G. Edward
Calvert, ’44, chairman of the nominating
committee, proposed the following slate
of officers, which was elected by
acclamation: Cecil W. Taylor, ’39, 41L,
president; E. Starke Sydnor, 66, ’73L,
vice president; and William C. |
Washburn Jr., ’66, secretary-treasurer.
The evening’s principal speaker was
President Robert E. R. Huntley, -who
spoke briefly on the historic
perseverance of Washington and Lee
The Lynchburg Citation for high service
to W&L was presented to Coach Emmer,
who expressed his pleasure at receiving
an award for performing a function that
is so much fun for him. The “State of the
Chapter” address, a wry monologue by
Bertram R. Schewel, 41, was a cheerful
tonic on a cold February night and
reassured those alumni disappointed
once again not to have received the
award. Special guests for the evening
included Mrs. Huntley, Miss Martha
Huntley, University Trustee and Mrs.
H. Gordon Leggett Jr., 54, University
Treasurer and Mrs. James W.
Whitehead, and Alumni Secretary and
Mrs. William C. Washburn.

PALMETTO. The annual winter
business meeting and dinner of the
Palmetto chapter was held on Jan. 24 at
Seawell’s Restaurant at the South
Carolina Fairgrounds. The meeting was
preceded by a cocktail reception for
officers and chapter directors at the
home of Mr. and Mrs. L. Arlen Cotter,
parents of Les Cotter, ’80. Following the
social hour and dinner, the meeting
began with elections. The new chapter

 

LYNCHBURG—Lacrosse coach Jack Emmer (second from left) receives the Lynchburg Citation from

Rodger Fauber (left), 63, chapter president; with them are Cecil W. Taylor (right), 39, 41L, mcommg
president, and President Robert E. R. Huntley, who spoke at the banquet.

 

LYNCHBURG—Bert Schewel, ’41, the perpetual scribe and historian of the Lynchburg chapter regales
his audience with his annual ‘‘State of the Chapter’’ address.

officers are John W. Folsom, ’73,
president; A. G. (Joe) Wilson, ’69, vice
president; and J. Hagood Ellison, ’72,
secretary-treasurer. Buddy Atkins spoke
briefly on student recruitment efforts

and John Hollister, a development
associate, gave a similar talk on the
future financial plans of the University.
The evening’s highlight was an informal
talk on the Reeves Collection of Chinese

21

Lynchburg News Photo

CHAPTER NEWS

Export Porcelain, given by James
Whitehead, the University treasurer.
Plans were also developed for a big
social affair sponsored by the Palmetto
chapter in conjunction with the showing
of the Reeves Collection and the
paintings of Louise Herreshoff at the
Columbia Museum in November, 1978.
Outgoing president Patton Adams, 65,
presided and was praised for his
excellent leadership of the chapter
during the last year.

NEW YORK. The annual “Coaches
Night” reception and dinner was held
Dec. 9 at the Cattleman East Restaurant.
Walt Michaels, ’51, head coach of the
New York Jets, was the principal
speaker. Also on the program was Bill
McHenry, W&L’s director of athletics.
During a short business session,
outgoing president J. A. Drabek, ’53,
received the nominations from Richard
Warren, 757, and the slate of officers
and directors was unanimously
approved. John M. Ellis, 56, was named
president and Emmett Poindexter, ’20,
was re-elected treasurer. Also at the
meeting were William C. Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary, and Buddy Atkins,
68, assistant alumni secretary.

WASHINGTON. The Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain
was the theme exhibit at the Washington
Antique Show on Jan. 13. In spite of
severe winter weather, alumni gathered
at the Shoreham-Americana Hotel for
cocktails and a black-tie dinner. Guest
speaker for the evening was President
Robert E. R. Huntley. Among the
honored guests were Trustees Lewis F.
Powell, E. Waller Dudley, and Sydney
Lewis and their wives. Ably assisted by
his assistants, Grady C. Frank Jr., ’75L,
and Jeff T. Twardy, ’67, ’73L, chapter
president Jay Meriwether, ’70, presided
over an outstanding event. Representing
the University were James Whitehead,
treasurer, William C. Washburn, ’40,
Buddy Atkins, 68, Dr. Leon
Sensabaugh, dean emeritus and their
wives. Robert S. Keefe, 68, and John M.
Duckworth, ’71, were also present.

22

 

 

NEW YORK—Walt E. Michaels, ’51, and Bill SAN ANTONI O—WesL. admissions aide

   

i

dria
Ken

McHenry, ’54, at the head table on ‘‘Coaches Ruscio, ’76, talks with chapter president Ralph

Night.’’ Lehr Jr., ’73, atNov. 30 meeting.

SAN ANTONIO—AIso at the meeting at the San Antonio Country Club were Brooks and Warren Stewart,

62, and Chippy and Dick Penny, ’68.

es

LONG ISLAND—O buiously pleased by the formation of a Long Island chapter on Dec. 8 are Clark B.
Winter, 37, George F. McInerney, '39, Duncan F. Winter, ’75, Caroline Jackson, J eff Wexler,

president, and Mr. and Mrs. Kenneth Van de Water Jr., '41.

‘69,

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Why not a WSL rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$75.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$60.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:
Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and_ telephone
number.

 

 

1920

Jupce E. B. Beatty retired Jan. 2, 1978, after
more than a half century of public service to Lee
County, Ky., and the area. Ceremonies in his
honor were held in the community room of the
Peoples Bank at Beattyville and E. B. Beatty
Appreciation Day was proclaimed by County
Judge Executive Douglas Brandenburg and the
Lee County Fiscal Court. He was the third
member of his family to serve as the Lee County
attorney.

1921

Dr. DANIEL BLAIN led the opening march for
the 230th annual dinner of the St. Andrew’s
Society of Philadelphia, which was held Nov.
30. He carried the sword that belonged to his
18th-century ancestor, Dr. Hugh Mercer. Blain
is a former president of the American Psychia-
tric Association.

1923

THE REv. J. B. HoLtoway has celebrated his
50th year in the ministry. His church sent him
and his wife on a three-week tour of the Holy
Land.

J. W. C. WriGur Jr. is chairman of the board of
Globe Storage Co. in Baton Rouge, La. He is a
past president and member of the Kiwanis Club,
a member of the Chamber of Commerce, the
Traffic Club, the Louisiana Motor Transporta-
tion Association, and the National Furniture
Warehousemen’s Association. He and his wife
have seven grandchildren and five great-
grandchildren.

1924

CHARLES HARRELL retired from Bluefield
Hardware Co. in 1968. He remains very active
as a trustee of Bluefield College, a member of
the River Road Church in Richmond, Va., and
the West Richmond Rotary Club.

1926

Retired from his first career, CHARLES W. LOwRY
is writing a weekly column for The Pinehurst
(N.C.) Outlook and is teaching an advanced his-
tory class in O’Neal Day School.

Henry M. WIxson of Owensboro, Ky., has re-
signed from the Owensboro-Daviess County
Hospital board. After graduation, Wilson en-
tered the telephone industry, spending 33 of
his 43-year career in Owensboro. When he re-
tired he was manager of the 15-county Owens-
boro district of South Central Bell. Wilson is
past president of the Owensboro Chamber of
Commerce and the Rotary Club. He was vice
president and a director of the Community
Chest, vice president of the Daviess County Red
Cross Chapter, a director of the Kentucky

25

CLASS NOTES

Chamber of Commerce and a founder of the
Junior Achievement program in Owensboro.

1927

Although he maintains a limited practice in sur-
gery, Dr. ALEX S. MorFETT Is also interested in
various fields of art and art appreciation.

ROBERT E. STEVENSON has been retired since
1972 and lives in Mobile, Ala. His career spanned
45 years with Gulf, Mobile, and the Ohio Rail-
road. He manages to play golf five days a week.

Rabbi Davip WICcE is completing 45 years of
active service in the ministry. He continues as
president of the World Union for Progressive
Judaism.

GIBSON WITHERSPOON has been appointed a
commissioner of The National Institute of Jus-
tice of the American Bar Association.

1928

WILTON M. (RED) GARRISON has retired after 30
years as sports editor of The Charlotte (N. C.)
Observer. He now does free-lance writing for
magazines.

GERALD F. HorInE is retired from the Lincoln
division of Ford Motor Co. He lives in Alexan-
dria, Va., where he is a member of the hospital
corporation.

1929

WILLIAM F. CHANDLER Is retired president of
the coatings division of Porter Paint Co. He was
with them for over 40 years. He enjoys golf and
plays in regional, national and senior golf tour-
naments.

WILLIAM S. GAULT Is semi-retired after 47 years
of law practice in Pittsburgh, Pa.

ROBERT W. PuHarkg has retired from law practice
after 48 years. He manages to stay active and
enjoys a home in Memphis, a cruiser on Pickwick
Lakes, and a condominium in St. Petersburg,
Fla.

1930

Dr. JOHN P. Davis, retired from private prac-
tice, is a medical consultant for Integon Life
Insurance Co. of Winston-Salem, N. C.

HOwERTON GOwWEN 1s working for both the Acme
Oldsmobile-Cadillac Agency and the Gowen Oil
Co. in Roanoke Rapids, N.C.

Dr. STANLEY F. HAMPTON continues in the prac-
tice of allergy in St. Louis, Mo. In July, 1977, he
was named associate professor emeritus of clini-
cal medicine at Washington University. In 1975
he was awarded the Distinguished Service
Award of the American Academy of Allergy.

24

JOHN P. LyNncu has completed 40 years of prac-
tice of internal medicine at McGuire Clinic in
Richmond, Va.

1931
MARRIAGE: Evert E. HAL and Terry Han-
nagan Deegan on Sept. 9, 1977. The couple
lives in Abilene, Texas, where he is a Chartered
Life Underwriter and one of the few licensed
insurance counselors in Texas.

Dr. J. HANSFORD THOMAS JR. practices medicine
in Greenville, Va. He and his wife have five
children.

1932

JULIAN Broome, who takes a night course in
gourmet cooking, is retired and plays a lot of
tennis.

Woopson B. GILLOCK was elected president of
the Blue Ridge Chapter of the American As-
sociation of Retired Persons for 1978 and 1979.

After 11 years, Dr. WiLL1aM D. Hoyt, has re-
tired as president of the Essex County (Mass.)
Historical Association. He succeeded in getting
two areas designated as Historic Districts. Hoyt
is currently helping to write the first town history
of Rockport, Mass., since 1888.

1933

J. FRED Cook of Waynesboro retired from the
hardware business in 1968, from teaching dis-
tributive education in 1976, and is now selling
real estate for Cook Land Co.

1934

HaypDEN D. AUSTIN is counsel for the Small
Business Administration in Utah. A former
president of the Utah chapter of the Federal
Bar Association, he was recently appointed to
the long-range planning committee of the Utah
Bar.

Dr. Norwoop E. Banp is headmaster of the
Bayside School in Northfield, N. J.

GEORGE D. McC.ure, a member of the Texas
Game Fishing Club, competed in a tournament
against the Mexican Tarpon & Sailfish Club in
Acapulco. He boated and released 12 sailfish in
three days. McClure sells insurance in Dallas.

FOSTER M. PALMER has retired again after 21
months as acting librarian of the Francis A.
Countway Library of Medicine in Watertown,
Mass.

RICHARD SALE, author of The White Buffalo, is
working on a new novel, The Peril. He is also
working on a new movie, Empire, which should
begin shooting in April, 1978.

  

A. M. Doty, °35

 

After 32 years, WILLIAM B. TyrEE has retired
from the Standard Register Co. of Dayton,
Ohio, and lives in Clearwater, Fla.

1935

ARTHUR M. Dory, president of the Alcoa
Foundation, retired on Dec. 29, 1977, after a
31-year career with the Aluminum Company of
America. After he received a masters degree in
history and education from the University of
Southern California in 1939, Doty became a
civilian flight instructor at the Santa Ana Army
Air Corps base. He taught at Washington State
University and served two years as an officer in
the Navy before joining Alcoa in 1946. Doty
became manager of education and training in
1953, assistant manager of personnel relations
in 1955 and manager in 1960. He became exe-
cutive director of the Alcoa Foundation in 1967,
and was elected president in 1970. He isa mem-
ber of the board of directors of the Pittsburgh
Symphony Orchestra, serves on the advisory
council to the Business Committee for the Arts,
and is a fellow for the National Center for Ju-
venile Justice.

Leroy HopGEs Jr. retired Dec. 22, 1977, from
service with the U. S. Agriculture department.
Since 1959 he has been assigned to the foreign
agricultural service as a tobacco marketing
specialist. He expects to live in Richmond, Va.

1936

Dr. THomaS H. ALPHIN is deputy vice president
for administration at the Medical Center, Uni-
versity of Alabama in Birmingham.

HUuGH J. BonInNo is president of Bostik South,
Inc., a subsidiary of USM Corp. The corporation
was recently acquired by Emhart Corp. of Hart-
ford, Conn. Bonino spends a great deal of time
in Lausanne, Switzerland, which is the head-
quarters for the chemical division. He lives in
Greenville, S. C.

JOEL Grayson III is vice president and major
stock holder in a company which compounds
and processes swimming pool chemicals. The
company also is in the production of dairy
chemicals, commercial laundry products and
chemical specialty products.

PauL G. Hervey has retired as a professor and
chairman of the psychology department at Del
Mar College. Currently living in Corpus Christi,
Texas, he is busy writing.

Former Virginia delegate LEwis A. MCMuRRAN
JR. of Newport News has been appointed by
Gov. Dalton to fill a vacancy on the Virginia
Council of Higher Education. McMurran, first
elected to the legislature in 1947, chaired the
Roads and Internal Navigation Committee and
the Virginia Independence Bicentennial Com-
mission. He was a member of the Appropria-

tions, Privileges and Elections, and Rules com-
mittees. He was instrumental in the establish-
ment of Christopher Newport College, the
Hampton Roads Bridge Tunnel, the Victory
Center in Yorktown and the expansion of the
Newport News port facilities. McMurran was a
member of the Jaycees and the Peninsula
Chamber of Commerce, a founder and director
of the Bank of Warwick, now the Bank of Vir-
ginia, and served as chairman of the Peninsula
Industrial Committee and as a commissioner of
the Virginia Ports Authority. Gov. Mills Godwin
spoke at a luncheon on Dec. 14, 1977, when
McMurran retired from the legislature.

GreGory S. Maury Jr. has retired from Rey-
nolds Metal Co. of Richmond, Va., where he
was manager of telecommunications for 14 years
and corporate records manager for three years.

FRANK L. PRICE, who served with the F.B.I. from
1941 through 1964, was installed as national
president of the Society of Former Special
Agents of the F.B.I. He will head the 7000-
member organization for one year.

James L. Price of Duke University’s. divinity
school collaborated with Thor Hall of the Uni-
versity of Tennessee in preparing literature for
the Advent and Christmas Proclamation Series
for Christian churches. ’

JAMES A. ROBERTSON retired in February, 1978,
after 42 years of service with the tobacco firm of
Dibrell Bros., Inc., of Danville, Va.

WILLIAM H. SEATON Jr. retired from business in
1971 but soon began work with the West Virginia
Insurance Dept. He is now assistant commis-
sioner of insurance. He lives in Charleston.

1937

Henry M. Drake has been general agent for the
Southern Farm Bureau Insurance Cos. in Port
Gibson, Miss., for 22 years.

KENT ForsTER spent the 1976-77 year on sab-
batical leave from Pennsylvania State Univer-
sity, where he is head of the history department.
He was a visiting professor at the University of
Nairobi in Kenya.

ALEXANDER MCINTOSH, a resident of North
Branford, Conn., is retired and spends the
months of November through April in Deerfield
Beach, Fla.

CHARLES S. MCNULTY JR., aretired employee of
the city of Roanoke, Va., is a real estate consul-
tant.

DONALD R. Moorr is an attorney with a Wash-
ington, D. C., law firm after retiring from the
Federal Trade Commission as an administration

law judge.

MICHAEL A. PERNA retired from government
service with the Navy department in 1970. He
now is engaged in the investment business.

PARKE S. ROusE JR. has been reappointed by
Gov. Dalton as executive director of the James-
town-Yorktown Foundation.

1938

ART ALEXANDER retired in 1977 after a long
career with Toledo Scale Co. in Houston, Texas.
He and his wife, Marie, live in Columbia, Miss.

J. OLIvER GLuyas, who retired from American
Airlines in 1976, has been employed full time as
a labor relations specialist in the legal affairs
department of the City University of New York.

Joun E. NEILL retired Nov. 1, 1977, as vice
president of W. W. Norton and Co. in New
York. He and his wife, Betty, now live in South-
ern Pines, N. C.

THOMAS C. NUGENT JR. is president of Nugent
Sand Co. and director of the National Sand and
Gravel Association. He is also board chairman
of NESCO, Inc.

CALVERT THOMAS, a member of the Washington
and Lee Board of Trustees and former secre-
tary and assistant general counsel for General
Motors Corp., has opened a Cadillac deal-
ership in Hartford, Conn. The new company
will be known as Thomas Cadillac Inc. and Tho-
mas’ son, Calvert Bowie Thomas, will be the
company vice president. Before joining General
Motors Corp., Thomas was a practicing attorney
in Baltimore; was employed as an attorney by
the Department of Labor, the Tax Court of the
U. S., and the U. S. Bureau of Internal Revenue.
He was with GM for 26 years and came up
through the legal staff to the position of assistant
general counsel.

FRANK L. PRICE (See 1936.)

1939

Puiip R. Brooks of Petersburg, Va., has been
reappointed to a four-year term as director of
the state department of purchases and supply.
He directs a staff of 140 employees and admini-
sters an annual budget of about $150 million.
Brooks was formerly associated with Lone Star
Industries, Inc., of Richmond. Brooks has also
been chairman of the State Fair Coordinating
Committee and vice president of state agency

heads.

Dr. THORNTON R. CLEEK of Asheboro, N.C.,
was named “Family Physician of the Year—
1977” by the North Carolina Academy of Family
Physicians at their annual meeting Nov. 27,
1977, in Winston-Salem.

 

R. S. Thompson J i 3 9

JOHN D. GoopIn is a trustee and an elder of the
Presbyterian church in Johnson City, Tenn. He
has been elected head of the Past National
Commanders Organization.

Roy S. THOMPSON JR., president of American
Southern Insurance Co. in Atlanta, Ga., became
a member of Lloyd’s of London on Jan. 1, 1978.
Thompson, president of both Rate-O-Gram,
Inc., and Thompson Enterprises, Inc., is a for-
mer director of the Southern Council on Inter-
national and Public Affairs and a former mem-
ber of the young presidents organization. He is
currently a trustee of Pace Academy, a member
of the Insurance Institute of America and a
member of the National Association of Inde-
pendent Insurers. He and his wife, Virginia,
have four sons.

1940

JACKSON G. AKIN is the managing lawyer of a
40-man firm in Albequerque, N. M., where he
has been practicing for over 30 years.

CHARLES C. Cur. is a pilot for Braniff Interna-
tional Airlines. He flies the Dallas-Fort Worth
to Honolulu route.

C. HARRISON HOGAN will retire from Trans
World Airlines, Inc., in July after serving 33
years as a pilot. He and his wife, Ruth, live in
Huntington, Long Island.

194]

JAMES R. BURKHOLDER III is president and chief
executive officer of Almstedt Brothers, Inc., a
93-year-old investment firm and member of the
New York Stock Exchange located in Louisville,
Ky. Burkholder was chairman of the Ohio Valley
group of the Investment Bankers Association in
1966-67, vice chairman of the Southern District
of the SIA in 1972-73, and a member of the
national municipal bond committee of the IBA
for 15 years.

JOHN D. DurHAM is working for C.N.I. Interna-
tional as a project coordinator. The firm builds
department stores world wide.

CHARLES L. Hosson has practiced law for 31
years in Frankfort, Ky. He and his wife, Alice,
have two children.

BERTRAM R. SCHEWEL, president of Schewel
Furniture Co., headquartered in Lynchburg,
Va., received the Award of Merit during a recent
conference at the High Point, N. C., furniture
market. The award, presented annually by Fur-
niture South magazine, recognizes distinguished
service by an outstanding retailer. Schewel is
one of Lynchburg’s most active civic leaders,
receiving the National Conference of Christians
and Jews Brotherhood Award in 1973, and the
Willis Award in 1975.

25

CLASS NOTES

1942

JAMES S. HILt 1s president of George W. Hill
Co., a whole seed and turf supply firm, in Cov-
ington, Ky. He is also vice chairman of General
Savings and Loan Association.

1943

WILLIAM H. ARMSTRONG is a partner and direc-
tor of Jennison Associates, a management firm
in New York specializing in the management of
corporate pension funds.

RICHARD J. BROMLEY is associated with Bache,
Halsey, Stuart, Shields of New York as an ac-
count executive in their Garden City office.

BARTON W. Morris, publisher of the Roanoke
Times & World News since 1973, has been named
president of Times-World Corp. The Roanoke
paper is a part of Landmark Communications,
Inc., of Norfolk. Morris began his career with
the Roanoke newspaper as a reporter in 1945.
He has been a legislative correspondent, assis-
tant to the general manager, corporate secre-
tary, promotion manager, executive editor and
vice president of the newspapers. Morris was a
Southern Neiman Association fellow in North
Africa in 1957, chairman of the Roanoke Com-
munity Fund and a trustee of Virginia Western
Community College.

Since July, 1973, ROSCOE B. STEPHENSON JR. has
been Judge of the 25th Judicial Circuit of Vir-
ginia.

1944

EARLE PALMER Brown has two other W&L men
in his advertising and public relations firm, Earle
Palmer Brown Associates of Bethesda, Md. They
are his son, JEREMY (JEB) Brown, ’69, and
CHARLES M. BROWNING, ’71.

WILLIAM R. MALLoy retired from Kavanaugh
Industries, Inc. of Lynchburg, Va., and is on
Hilton Head Island where he is employed by
Sea Pines Co. as a tennis court maintenance
specialiist.

1945

S. ALLAN MCALLISTER will be a visiting professor
in chemistry at Western Carolina University in
Cullowhee, N. C., for the spring semester of
1978.

JosePH C. MINGIOLI is the director of learning
resources for Project Hope, the international
health and education organization.

JOHN H. SORRELLS JR. is promotions editor of
The Commercial Appeal in Memphis. He retired
from the U. S. Army Reserve after 30 years.

1946

CLARENCE N. FRIERSON is still in the cotton

26

plantation business in Shreveport, La. His son,
Archer Frierson, 773, is also in business with
him.

1947

WILLARD H. Harr has accepted the position of
coordinator of community relations for Edison
State Community College in Piqua, Ohio. He
had held a similar position at Indiana University
since 1968.

RoscoE B. STEPHENSON (See 1943.)

1948

EpGar D. HO..apay is a portfolio manager at
the State National Bank in Evanston, III.

ROBERT G. PATTERSON has been named pro-
fessor of humanities at Southwestern at Mem-

phis.

1949

Cot. Pau J. B. Murpny Jr. has joined a man-
agement consulting firm after 30 years of service
with the Army. He lives in McLean, Va.

After 30 years of service with the federal gov-
ernment BENJAMIN L. WEsSON has retired. He
now lives in Huntsville, Ala., where he does
legal aid work.

RICHARD M. YANKEE has formed his own sales
representative firm and represents several
companies serving dairy and food industries
across the South. He is headquartered in Mem-
phis, Tenn.

HAYDEN D. AuSTIN (See 1934.)

1950

STUART S. BAILEY is a general contractor for
single family residences and small commercial
buildings in Fairfax County, Va. Bailey is presi-
dent of Century 21—Virginia Homes and Real
Estate Co., Inc. of Falls Church, Va. He is a
general broker and real estate developer in
northern Virginia and in metropolitan Wash-
ington, D. C.

ARTHUR A. BIRNEY is a practicing attorney in
Washington, D. C. In September, 1977, he and
a law partner purchased a 134-slip marina in
Annapolis, Md., and began a “do-it-yourself”
boatyard. The marina is called the Port Anna-
polis Marina and, according to Birney, has the
only fuel dock on Back Creek.

GERARD A. BURCHELL JR. is chairman of the
science department at the Kingswood Regional
Junior High School in Wolfboro, N. H.

Maurice Dick will retire in June from the San
Diego city school system after 28 years of teach-

ing. He expects to operate a ranch near Clarks-
ville, Ark.

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN is still with the U. S. In-
formation Service and recently transferred from
Bonn to Berlin. He is deputy director of the
information agency’s owned and operated
“Radio in the American Sector” (RIAS).

Joun D. LETHRIDGE has been made vice presi-
dent and national sales director of National Dis-
tillers Products Co. of New York City. He lives
in Wilton, Conn.

Dr. RoBerT H. MAuck practices orthopedics in
Martinsville, Va. He and his wife, Langhorne,
have three children.

BRuceE S. PARKINSON is vice president of sales for
Whiting Patterson Co. of Philadelphia. The firm
is amanufacturer of envelopes and other paper
products.

Howarb L. STEELE works with the international
development staff of the Agriculture Depart-
ment and is assigned to Bolivia with the U. S.
Agency for International Development. He is
project manager of a crop diversification and
integrated rural development program. Steele
married the former Jane Cornelius in July,

1977.

After more than five years of teaching in the
family practice department at the University of
Minnesota, Dr. CHARLES DWIGHT TOWNES JR. 1s
returning to private practice. He and his wife,
Carolyn, have two children, Jane and Charley.

1951

GEORGE F. ARATA JR. is serving as director and
president of the Southeast Bank of Sebastian,
Fla.

Dr. EARL R. CAMPBELL JR. is practicing ortho-
pedic surgery in Fort Oglethrope, Ga., and living
in Chattanooga. He and his wife have three
daughters.

Jack E. GREER was elected a fellow of the
American Bar Foundation. He lives in Norfolk,
Va.

Since 1967 ARTHUR HOLLINs III has served as
chairman of the First National Bank of Lake
Charles, La. In June, 1977, he also became
president of the bank and withdrew from public
practice as a certified public accountant.

Joun I. THOMPSON Jr. is employed by the en-
gineering division of the Pennsylvania Fish
Commission as contract administrator.

1952

ERNEST H. CLARKE is teaching at the Capital
University law school in Columbus, Ohio.

 

EDWARD E. GARDINER, formerly of Rosemont,
Pa., is part-owner and operator of the Pepsi-
Cola Bottling Co. in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. He and
his wife, Nancy, have three children.

ARTHUR A. BIRNEY (See 1950.)

1953

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. BRANTLEY F. Barr, a
daughter, Marci Lynne, on Dec. 14, 1977. The
family lives in Chatham, N. J.

WIL.iAM M. HO .uis has written another book,
Scenes From An Old Album, published by Bardic
Books of Bryn Mawr, Pa. He is also preparing a
TV series on the arts for the CBS station in
Philadelphia.

‘THE REv. Sam B. Hu.sey has accepted a call to
become rector of the Church of the Holy Trinity
-in Midland, Texas. He has been serving with
Saint David’s Church in Nashville, Tenn.

THE Rev. ScoTT May is rector of St. James
Church in Marietta, Ga. He recently was on a
two-month education program studying biblical
theology at Salisbury and Wells a
College in Salisbury, England.

KENNETH B. SIZER is medical director for Dan
River, Inc., in Danville, Va., in addition to
maintaining a private practice.

1954

Davip P. ComEGys Jr. is rector of St. Luke’s
Episcopal Church in San Antonio, Texas.

JAMES C. CONNER is a partner in the Washington,
D. C., law firm of Bowman & Conner, specializ-
ing in the financing of ships, drilling rigs and
other international matters.

DANIEL D. DICKENSON is the administrator of
the Westminster-Canterbury Home of Norfolk,
Va. He oversees the development and construc-
tion of a full-service retirement residence of
384 units plus a 120-bed health center. He had
been pastor of the Lafayette Presbyterian
Church of Norfolk, Va.

HASWELL M. FRANKLIN Is president of the Balti-
more Life Underwriters Association. He and
his wife have seven children.

Cart D. Swanson was re-elected chairman of
the Virginia Board of Licensure of Professional
Counselors. He has just had a book published
entitled Legal and Ethical Concerns for School
Counselors.

Dr. ROBERT N. WASHBURNE, his wife, and three
children have moved to Jenkintown, Pa., after
living seven years in Switzerland and France.
He is working for Rohm and Haas and is re-

sponsible for new product development at the
central research laboratories.

1955

I. THomAS BAKER Is associated with Mead As-
sociates Realtors in Lexington, Va. He is past
president of the Lexington Board of Realtors.
He and his wife have a son and a daughter.

LAURENCE LEVITAN is in the Maryland State
Senate. He practices law with Paul Weinstein,
°55, and the firm is one of the largest in Mont-
gomery County.

DuDLeEY B. THOmaS is general manager of the
News-Herald in Willoughby, Ohio. He and his
wife have two sons and the family lives in
Painesville, Ohio, where they raise Old English
mastiff dogs.

1956

MARRIAGE: Rosert G. CaLLaway and Gail
Davidson Overbeck, on Sept. 10, 1977. Calla-
way, the author of Platform Tennis, recently
published by J. B. Lippincott, is a platform
tennis teaching pro and owner of the Paddle
Center in Norwalk, Conn. He and a partner
recently won the state’s platform tennis cham-
pionship. Callaway and his wife live in New
Canaan.

MARRIAGE: JOHN RANDOLPH HEarsT JR. and
Kathleen Bickley, on Dec. 18, 1977. He is the
grandson of the noted publisher William Ran-
dolph Hearst. She is the head of fashion design-
er Geoffrey Beene’s sportswear division.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN LYNN Hare JR., a
son, Ashby Ryan, on July 20, 1977. The family
lives in Rock Hill, S. C.

JOHN ELLIs is one of six men who make up
HAUS International, Inc. (Housing and Urban
Services), an architectural firm which designs
large-scale projects in the U.S. and abroad. The
firm’s first project was a new community for
6,000 families in Tehran. Ellis is currently pro-
ject architect for another Tehran project, a $300
million mixed-use development which will in-
clude housing, offices, schools, shopping and
health facilities. Construction is scheduled to
begin in October, 1978.

1957

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES B. RICHARDSON,
a daughter, on Jan. 8, 1978.

SMITH W. BaGLey will hold the title of president
and publisher of a new national Sunday supple-
ment which will compete with Parade and Family
Weekly. The publication is called Today is Sunday.

Dr. Cart F. BARNEs JR., professor of art history
at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich., has

been elected president of the International
Center of Medieval Art. The ICMA has its
headquarters in the Cloisters Museum in New
York City and has over 700 members in 31
different countries.

JOEL H. BERNSTEIN and his partner, Glenda
Clay Bradshaw, have contracted to write the
history of dude ranching in the United States.
He can be contacted at the University of Mon-
tana in Missoula.

JAMES R. CREEL JR., formerly with Carlisle &
Jacquelin, is working for Wood Gundy, Inc.,
Wall Street, New York. The firm deals in se-
curities.

HAROLD GREIG CUMMINGS JR., a vice president
of Legg Mason Wood Walker, Inc., members of
the New York Stock Exchange, has been elected
a director of The Boys Club of Washington,
D. C.

JOSEPH C. KNAKAL JR., a partner in the law firm
of Caskie, Frost, Hobbs & Hamblen of Lynch-
burg, Va., has been elected to the board of
directors of the United Virginia Bank/First Na-
tional. Knakal is a member of the American,
Virginia, and Lynchburg Bar Associations and
the Virginia State Bar. He is a past president of
the Lynchburg Bar Association, a member of
the board of overseers for Sweet Briar College,
and officer and director of the Greater Lynch-
burg Chamber of Commerce, the Oakwood
Country Club, the Greater Lynchburg Housing
Corp. and the Lynchburg Community Action
Group. Knakal was a director of Junior
Achievement of Lynchburg, and the Boy Scouts
of America-Blue Ridge Council.

ROBERT D. MILLER is director of the national
mission division of the Presbyterian Church with
an office in Atlanta, Ga. He has been pastor of
the Westminster Presbyterian Church of Mont-
gomery, Ala.

JORDAN M. SmirTHu has been teaching American
constitutional history at the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hillsince 1972. He received
his Ph.D. in history from U.N.C. in 1977.

CHARLES M. Swezey is a member of the faculty
of Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EpGar H. MacKInay, a
fourth daughter, Charlotte Campbell, on Jan.

6, 1978. The family lives in Virginia Beach.

JOHN C. BInForpD has formed his own commer-
cial real estate firm in Albequerque, N. M.

CHARLES M. HELZBURG is a private investor and
real estate dealer in Kansas City, Mo. He is also a
director and consultant to several corporations.

27

 

D. G. Noble, ’58

After a tour of duty with the U.S. Coast Guard,
Davip G. NoBLE joined Deere & Co.’s Syracuse,
N. Y., sales branch in October, 1962. He has
held executive positions with the company at
several levels and was recently appointed gen-
eral sales manager for agricultural equipment
in Columbus, Ohio. The branch is one of 10 in
North America which markets Deere’s farm
equipment and consumer products. Noble and
his wife, the former Diane M. Hollkamp, have
two children. Since his arrival in Columbus,
Noble has been a coach in the Kiwanis soccer
league and active in the YMCA youth program
and other community events.

‘THOMAS P. O'BRIEN JR. has been promoted to
lieutenant colonel in the Army reserve. He is
senior trial counsel, 135th JAG Detachment,
located in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Since July, 1977, THEODORE G. RicH JR. has
been president of Morville Clothes in Philadel-
phia. The firm is an eight-store division of After
Six Corp. He was re-elected vice president of
Moss Rehabilitation Hospital and in November
was elected to the board of trustees of the Phila-
delphia Federation of Jewish Agencies.

ERNEST H. CLARKE (See 1952.)

MARRIAGE: Owen H. Harper and Kathleen
McEnerney, on Oct. 29, 1977. The couple lives
in Los Angeles where Harper is connected with

the Crocker National Bank.

Dr. ‘THomas P. FOLey JR. has been promoted to
associate professor of pediatrics at the University
Health Center of Pittsburgh, which he joined in
1971. In 1976 he was appointed director of the
Clinical Research Center of Children’s Hospital
in Pittsburgh. As program director, Foley de-
veloped a laboratory test which can accurately
and economically screen for congenital hy-
pothyroidism, a subtle and difficult to detect
medical condition which can cause irreversible
mental retardation in infants if not discovered
and treated early.

ANTHONY J. FRANK was promoted to executive
vice president and secretary-treasurer of An-
derson & Strudwick Holding Corp. The firm
operates five companies in the fields of invest-
ments, real estate, insurance, business broker-
age, and corporate and individual consulting.
He and his wife have two sons.

‘Tom L. LaRIMORE, a partner in the Fort Worth,
Texas, law firm of Bishop, Larimore, Lamsens
& Brown, is president of the Fort Worth Horse-
shoe Club and president of the Senior Citizens
Center, Inc. He is a director of the Rotary Club
and chairman of All Saints’ Parish Day School
capital fund campaign.

CLARK M. LEa is president and owner of Marine

28

Metal Products Co. in Belleair, Fla. The com-
pany manufacturers fishing tackle and spec-

lalizes in artifical bait. He and his wife have two
children.

Maj. BRucE MacGowan retired from the U. S.
Army in July, 1977. He now holds a job with the
Sarasota Memorial Hospital.

Dr. EDWARD M. REAVES is a practicing physician
in Memphis, Tenn., with a specialty in cardio-
vascular disease. He and his wife have two chil-
dren.

LAURENCE M. SmalIcis chief counsel for the U.S.
Army’s Aviation Research and Technology
Laboratory at Fort Eustis, Va.

JOSEPH C. KNAKAL Jr. (See 1957.)

1960

W. E. KNICKERBOCKER JR. got both his B.D. and
his Ph.D. degrees from Emory University. He is
an associate professor of church history at
Memphis Theological Seminary and an ordain-
ed United Methodist minister. He married the
former Sandra Hargraves and the couple has
two children.

Financial Programs, Inc., has named Danic1 B.
LEONARD senior vice president and director of
research for the mutual fund management
company. Leonard is also continuing as manager
of the subsidiary Financial Industrial Fund,
Inc., the largest and oldest company advised by
Financial Programs. He lives in Denver.

J. THOMAS 'TOUCHTON was recently elected a
director of Merrill Lynch Basic Value Fund,
Inc., and a trustee of Merrill Lynch Ready Assets
Trust. Touchton is with the Witt Co., an invest-
ment firm in Tampa, Fla. He is also vice chair-
man of the board of trustees of the University of
Tampa and treasurer of the Financial Analysts
Society of Central Florida.

JORDAN M. Situ (See 1957.)

1961
JACK H. BREARD JR. is vice president and general
manager of the Dallas Office of EBSCO Indus-
tries, Inc. He recently gained membership in
the EBSCO Founders Club and life-time mem-
bership in the EBSCO $250,000 Club.

J. MALCOLM BROWNLEE JR., a member of the
faculty of the United Christian Theological
Seminary of Yogyakarta, Indonesia, has been
named associate editor of the Presbyterian
journal, The Outlook.

DwiGHT R. CHAMBERLAIN, an authority on the
common black crow, was taped for the NBC
program “To Tell The Truth.” The program
was aired during September and October.

       

ar

  

E

J. A. Russ, ’6

GRAYFRED B. Gray is associate professor of law
at the University of Tennessee College of Law.

RICHARD W. HOoOvenr was transferred from the
U. S. Embassy in Prague to the embassy in
Gaborone, Botswana, where he is the political
and economic officer.

WINSTON E. KOCK JR. joined Bache, Halsey,
Stuart, Shields Inc. in July, 1977, as vice presi-
dent of sales, GNMA originations for western
operations in the San Francisco office.

ROBERT K. Park II is president of the Jackson
County, W. Va., board of education. He is alsoa
member of the United States League of Saving
Associations legislative committee. He and his
wife have three children and live in a restored
19th-century home in Ravenswood, W. Va.

1962

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. T. DUNLOP ECKER, a
son, Franklin Henry Dunlop, on June 20, 1977.
Ecker, administrator of the Morris Cafritz
Memorial Hospital in Washington, D. C., com-
pleted a year as president of the District of
Columbia Hospital Association. He is also first
vice president of the board of directors of the
East of the River Health Association and a
member of the board of directors of the Visiting
Nurse Association of Washington, D. C.

Dr. R. A. (TONy) COUNCIL JR. is practicing ob-
stetrics and gynecology in Benton, Ark.

GrEorGE E. Honrs III has been named to the
board of the First National Bank of Troutville,
Va., an affiliate of the Valley of Virginia Bank-
shares, headquartered in Harrisonburg.

R. WILLIAM IbE III has been appointed chair-
man of the American Bar Association’s special
committee on federal limitations on attorneys’
fees. He has served in several national positions
with the ABA and is involved in a number of
national, state and local legal organizations. He
is a partner in the Atlanta firm of Huie, Sterne
and Ide.

LeEsiz H. Pearp III is completing his 10th year
in marketing with Eastman Kodak Co. He and
his wife have two children. The family lives in
San Rafael, Calif.

James A. Russ has been appointed to the board
of trustees of Prince George’s Community Col-
lege in Largo, Md. Russ is president of Buffalo
Sand and Gravel. Russ, his wife, and three chil-
dren make their home in Upper Marlboro, Md.

LAURENCE M. SMaIL (See 1959.)

1963

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davin C. SwANn, a son,

Andrew Whitaker, on Oct. 21, 1977. The family
lives in Morganton, N. C.

GEORGE T. COWARD, who studied tax law at
New York University, is a partner in the firm of
Campbell, Dunlap, Coward & Blakeman with
offices in Bartow and Lakeland, Fla.

Dr. R. THomas Epwarps III is practicing in-
ternal medicine and cardiology with a group of
four internists in Roanoke. He is chief of medi-
cine at Community Hospital Roanoke Valley.
He and his wife have four children.

Henry A. FENN 1s vice president and trust officer
of United Bank and Trust Co. of Hartford,
Conn. He and his wife, the former Holly Garri-
son of Greenwich, Conn., have four children.

STEPHEN E. GUILD is associate director for edu-
cation at the Graduate Research Center of the
University of Massachusetts in Amherst.

Dr. EDwAaRD W. HOLMEs JR. is associate pro-
fessor of medicine and assistant professor of
biochemistry at Duke University Medical Center
in Durham, N. C. Ae

Ken C. KOwALsKI, entering his third year as
principal of E. C. Glass High School‘in Lynch-
burg, Va., is serving as president of the Virginia
Association of School Executives, a professional
association of superintendents, principals, and
supervisors. He also manages to teach courses
in the law and the community relations schools
at the University of Virginia. Kowalski is one of
three delegates from Virginia to the convention
of the American Association of School Admini-
strators.

THomas P. McDavip 1s vice president in charge
of the corporate banking department at the
Union Trust Co. of Maryland. He has completed
the program for managerial development pre-
sented by the Harvard Graduate School of
Business Administration.

J. HoLtmes Morrison is vice president and senior
trust officer of the Kanawha Valley Bank, N. A.,
in Charleston, W. Va. He and his wife, Antoi-
nette, have a five-year-old daughter and a three-
year-old son.

JouN H. MUuLLIN III is senior vice president of
Dillon Read & Co., Inc., an investment banking
firm in New York City. He and his wife have two
sons and the family lives in Brooklyn.

ANTHONY D. SCHLESINGER is a partner in the
New York City law firm of Milbank, Tweed,
Hadley & McClay. He and his wife have one son
and the family lives in Brooklyn.

ANDREW A. SMITH has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president in the trust department of
Wilmington Trust Co. in Wilmington, Del.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD B. MCFALL, a
daughter, Mary Crawford, on June 14, 1977.
McFall is a partner in the law firm of Butler,
Binion, Rice, Cook and Knapp in Houston.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN M. SAMET, a second
son, Steven Richard, on July 24, 1977. Samet
practices cardiology in St. Louis.

PHiLip Boortu is in his third season with the
Metropolitan Opera. This summer he expects
to make his Seattle Opera debut as Fasolt in
“Das Rheingold.” His wife, Sandy, plays the
part of Nurse Horner on the TV production
“As the World Turns.” The couple has one
daughter and the family lives in New York City.

WILLIAM T. BRAITHWAITE Is a partner in the law
firm of Mayer, Brown and Platt in Chicago. His
wife is a doctor and assistant professor of medi-
cine at Loyola University. They have three sons.

KENNETH E. BRANDENBURGH has been commis-
sioner of state police for the Commonwealth of
Kentucky. He directs 980 officers and super-
vised police operations during the present coal
miners strike.

Dr. GEORGE CRADDOCK JR. is attached to the
hospital at the University of Virginia in Char-
lottesville. He is an assistant professor of
medicine specializing in cardiology.

JoHN P. Epwarps is the community affairs
manager for Caterpillar Tractor Co. in Peoria,
Ill. Edwards has two sons, Robb and Peter.

STANLEY FINK has been elected to the National
Advisory Board of the United Synagogue of
America. He is also a trustee of the Union
County, N. J., Bar Association.

ALVIN B. HuTZLer II has been elected president
of Cliff Weil and Patrick-McRee, Inc., in Rich-
mond.

ROBERT A. PADDOCK is working on the effect of
power production on the physical environment
at the Argonne National Laboratory in Argonne
Ill. He and his wife have a daughter, Holly
Margaret.

First Alabama Bancshares, a holding company,
has named CuHar -es B. SAVAGE JR. of Montgo-
mery as a corporate banking officer. He is serv-
ing a fifth term as president of Alabama Junior
Miss. Inc., one of the nation’s leading junior
miss programs.

PAUL F. VAN AVERY is manager of a new office
of Merrill Lynch in Erie, Pa. He was elected an
assistant vice president of Merrill Lynch in Feb-
ruary, 1977.

 

H. D. Jones III, "65

Dr. STUART J. YOFFE is a practicing pediatrician
in Houston, Texas. He recently had a book
published entitled How to Raise the Perfect Child
or the Impossible Dream.

EDGAR H. MacKin ay (See 1958.)

1965

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Victor GALEF, a daugh-
ter, Wendy, on May 30, 1977, in Northbrook,
Ill. She joins a sister and brother. Galef is mar-
keting director for the Wyler Foods division of
Borden Foods.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. Byrp Gwinn, a son,
David Harvey, on May 1, 1977. He joins a nine-
year-old brother, William. Byrd manages the
Houston office of Chubb and Son, Inc.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PAut H. DUNBAR III, a
daughter, Katherine Hammond, on July 1,
1977. The family lives in Augusta, Ga.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. EarRL MAGDOVITZ, a
daughter, on Nov. 30, 1977. The family lives in
Memphis, Tenn.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. MALCOLM Morris, a
son, David Theodore, on Dec. 18, 1977. Morris
is an attorney with the firm of Cleary, Gottlieb,
Steen and Hamilton in New York.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THOMAS E. STOVER, a
son, Thomas Christopher, on Sept. 3, 1977.
The Stovers also have a daughter. Stover prac-
tices law in Washington, N. J.

PETER H. ALFORD is director of admissions at
the 700-student Loomis Chaffee School, a
boarding and day school, in Windsor, Conn.

James C. Bussart and his wife, Debbie, live in
Atlanta with their two children, Tim and Suz-
anne. Bussart practices law there.

Davi M. ELLIs was certified a labor law special-
ist by the Texas Bar in October, 1977, and be-
came a partner in the Dallas firm of Clark,
West, Keller, Sanders and Butler.

STEPHEN T. HIBBARD is an institutional munici-
pal bond salesman for White, Weld and Co. in
Boston. Hibbard, his wife, and two young sons
are living in and restoring a 150-year-old farm
house in Weston, Mass.

H. DANIEL JONES III is executive director of the
American Society of Pension Actuaries in
Washington, D. C. Jones has served as a legisla-
tive assistant and a public relations director on
Capitol Hill; a trust officer with responsibility
for corporate pension and profit-sharing trusts
at one of Washington’s largest banks and as tax
counsel for the electric utility industry.

20

CLASS NOTES

ANDREW C. KILPATRICK is a reporter for the
Birmingham (Ala.) News and his wife, Kay, re-
ports for the Post-Herald. They have ason anda
daughter.

MICHAEL J. MICHAELES is a partner in the Bolton,
Mass., law firm of Mirick, O’Connell, DeMallie
and Lougee. He is also an officer of the board of
directors of the Tri-Community YMCA and ac-
tive in other civic and legal organizations. He
spent several days with classmate Davip KILLI-
BREW, who lives in London, during a trip to that
city.

EUGENE L. PEARCE III was promoted to assistant
vice president in the personal trust division of
Citizens and Southern Investment Counseling
in Atlanta. Pearce and his wife, Libby, have two
daughters.

GEORGE W. PRICE III is assistant vice president
of Yeargin Properties Inc., specializing in con-
dominium development and management of
income producing properties based in Spartan-
burg, S. C. He and his wife, Betty, have two
children.

Max L. SHapiRa is vice president of Heaven Hill
Distilleries, Inc., and a director of Liberty Na-
tional Bank and Trust Co. in Louisville.

1966
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CLybE H. FOSHEE JR., a
daughter, Patricia Grahn, on July 9, 1977. She
Joins two older brothers. Foshee is counsel and
assistant secretary to First Kentucky National
Corp., a bank holding company in Louisville.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. S. BIRNIE HARPER, a
daughter, Sara Margaret, on Nov. 17, 1977.
The Harpers have four children and the family
lives in Ft. Smith, Ark.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. THORNTON M. HENRY, a
son, Thornton Bradshaw, on April 15, 1977.
Henry isa tax attorney in West Palm Beach, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN C. HENSLEY JR., a
son, Scott Martin, on Aug. 28, 1977, in St. Louis.
Hensley is general agent for an insurance firm
and has recently earned the C.L.U. title.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOSEPH G. MILLER, a
second son, William Campbell, on Feb. 19, 1977.
Miller is farming in Franklin, Tenn. and is also
an officer in William F. Miller & Associates, a
manufacturer’s representative company.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. PauLN. Murpuy, a son,
Conor Comfort, on Sept. 7, 1977. Murphy is an
assistant U. S. Attorney for the District of Co-
lumbia, a position he entered in 1974. He spent
a year ocean racing and served with the Naval
Security Group for three years after graduation.
He graduated from the University of Virginia

30

Law School in 1973 and married the former
Helen Longstreth of Philadelphia.

DANIEL W. Birp Jr. practices law in Wytheville,
Va., with Franklin P. Slavin Jr., 75.

ANDREW N. Baur, formerly president and chief
executive officer of Commerce Bank of St. Louis,
has joined St. Louis County Bank as executive
vice president and was elected to the bank’s
board of directors. Baur was president of
Commerce Bank three years. Previously he was
vice president of Mercantile Trust Co.

Harry DEnnery is living in New Orleans and is
president of Dennery’s Home Beverage De-
livery, Inc., of Atlanta, Ga. His wife is vice
president and director of personnel for the
Times-Picayune Publishing Corp.

MICHAEL T.. GoopE has opened his own office
for the practice of law in Portsmouth, Va.

Harry G. GooDHearr III is a practicing attor-
ney in Bradenton, Fla. He is married to the
former Ann Jones and the couple lives on a
farm. Goodheart is active in the Big Brothers
Program and is an ardent ocean racing fan.

PETER C. MANSON JR. has been made a partner
in the law firm of Pender, Coward, Addison
and Morgan. The firm’s offices are in Norfolk
and Virginia Beach.

Roy ALLEN TYLER is a partner in a law firm in
Evansville, Ind. He is also a deputy prosecutor,
attorney for the Indiana Fraternal Order of
Police, an instructor for the National College of
District Attorneys at the University of Houston
law school, and an instructor for the Ohio Or-
ganized Crime Council in Columbus. Tyler and
his wife have two daughters.

VAL S. MCWHORTER (See 1969.)

1967
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RosBert B. PrRIppy, a
first child, Robert Brackett Jr., on Christmas
Day, Dec. 25, 1977. Priddy is director of de-
velopment at the Nichols School in Buffalo and
is a newly elected deacon at Westminster Pres-
byterian Church.

NELSON J. ADAMS is an independent film pro-
ducer in Washington, D. C. He has written a
script for a National Geographic Society film on
Mark Twain and is producing a film for the
Smithsonian Institute. His current project is a
film on historic preservation for which Lexing-
ton is a model case history.

Mark R. FERDINAND has opened his own law
office in Chicago where he deals in corporate,
real estate and estate planning law. He and his
wife, Joan, have a daughter and a son.

ROGER A. MILAM is sales manager of John S.
Milam Optical Co. in Nashville.

GEORGE N. STAMAS is assistant vice president of
the European American Bank in Chicago.

J. HoLMEs Morrison (See 1963.)

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ALLEN B. Craic III, ason,
Daniel Brewington, on March 5, 1977. Craig
became a partner in the Houston law firm of
Hutcheson and Grundy in January.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WIL1AM E. Harr Jr., a
daughter, Valerie Elaine, on Jan. 19, 1978. Hart
has completed the M.B.A. program at Old
Dominion University and is assistant professor
of accounting at Tidewater Community College.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GeorGE A. MorGAN JR.,
a son, George A. III, on Sept. 6, 1977. Morgan
is president and owner of Morgan Real Estate,
Inc., in Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN K. SHEPHERD, a
son, Paul Darrow, on Dec. 5, 1977. Shepherd is
vice president of Pulaski Federal Savings and
Loan Association in Little Rock, Ark. He also is
an officer with Pulaski Financial Services Inc., a
wholly owned service corporation of Pulaski
Federal.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Guy M. TownL.Ley, a son,
Peter Morrison, on Sept. 27, 1977. The Town-
leys also have two daughters and live in Okla-
homa City.

Dr. PAut A. BRower is currently chief resident
in urology at U.C.L.A. Hospital in Los Angeles.

KENNETH M. Fink is in the private practice of
adult and child psychiatry in Huntington, W.
Va. He is a diplomate of the American Board of
Psychiatry and Neurology.

EUGENE R. (SkIP) JACOBSEN III is executive vice
president of Sterling Textile Services in Wash-
ington, D. C.

Dr. Houston M. KIMBROUGH Jr. will complete
his residency in urology this June in Roanoke,
Va. He plans to open a practice in urology after-
ward in Greensboro, N. C.

ROBERT H. MOLL is specializing in environ-
mental law at the National Law Center of George
Washington University. A senior trial attorney
in the office of the general counsel of the U.S.
Civil Service Commission, Moll is seeking an
L.L.M. degree.

MICHAEL G. MorGan has been promoted to
assistant vice president at United States Trust
Co. of New York. He joined the company in
1976 and is with the corporate banking division.

Morgan, his wife, and daughter reside in Stam-
ford, Conn.

Capt. JOHN W. Rice Jr., U.S.A.F., is stationed at
the Weapons Lab/Nuclear Systems Division in
Albequerque, N. M.

SIDNEY B. ROSENBERG Is vice president of First
Fidelity Mortgage Corp. in Atlanta.

PAuL H. DunBar III (See 1965.)

WILLIAM F. STONE JR. practices law with his
brother, CHARLES M. Strong, 770, ’73L, in Mar-
tinsville, Va. Stone and his wife, Cathy, have two
sons.

GeEorGE E. Honrts III (See 1962.)
MICHAEL J. MICHAELES (See 1965.)

‘THOMAS E. STOVER (See 1965.)

1969
MARRIAGE: JOHN GREGORY SIMMONS and
Bettie K. Bernhardt on May 7, 1977, in San
Antonio, Texas. Simmons is completing a resi-
dency in the Department of Otolaryngology and
Maxilla Facial Surgery at Tulane University
Medical School in New Orleans. ;

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. ARMSTRONG,
a son, Clark Andrew, on Sept. 9, 1976. Arm-
strong is an independent oil producer and
president of Armstrong Energy Corp. in Ros-
well, N. M.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. DouGLas HALL, a
daughter, Katherine Elizabeth, on Dec. 2, 1977.
Hall is with Montana State University’s agricul-
tural experiment station. The family lives in
Bozeman, Mont.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT A. MOSELLE, a
daughter, Monica Gayle, on Oct. 20, 1977. The
family lives in San Francisco.

G. WILLIAM ALLEN JR. 1s associated with the law
firm of Waltou, Lantaff, Schroeder and Carson
in Fort Lauderdale.

BARNABAS B. B. BREED has opened the firm of
Breed, Stairs and Handal for the general prac-
tice of law in New York.

Dr. J. GrttumM Burke will be chief resident in
orthopedic surgery at North Carolina Baptist
Hospital, Bowman Gray School of Medicine, in

July.

WILLIAM J. Cook is a research project leader
with Nordson Corp. in Amherst, Ohio. Cook is
married to the former Thalia Reffner of Co-
burn, Pa. They have a son and daughter.

Since receiving an M.B.A. in marketing from

the Wharton School in 1971, H. WARD DORER
has worked for the marketing department of
Nabisco, Inc., in East Hanover, N. J., where he
is presently a brand manager.

STEPHEN FLETCHER is employed with the En-
vironmental Research & Engineering Co. in
Gainesville, Fla. He and his wife have two chil-
dren.

Rurus D. KINNEy is studying for his M.A. in
English at the University of Montevallo in Ala-
bama.

JaMeEs J. Livesay is chief resident in general
surgery at U.C.L.A. Hospital in Los Angeles.

VaL S. MCWHORTER was appointed general
counsel of the Renegotiation Board on July 5,
1977. He is a specialist in government contract
law and was campaign coordinator for President
Carter’s election in Virginia’s eighth district.
McWhorter, his wife, and two children live in
Springfield, Va.

W. WILLIAM MELNYK will enroll this summer at
the Episcopal Seminary at the University of the
South at Sewanee for three years of study lead-
ing to the Episcopal priesthood. Melnyk, his
wife, Cathy, and their daughter and son will
move to Sewanee in August.

Dr. THomas M. NEwMaN has opened a private
medical practice for neurology in Houston.

RALPH E. Pearcy II graduated from law school
at the University of South Carolina and is now
stationed at Camp Lejeune, N. C., with the
Marine Corps. The Pearcys have a daughter.

Davip L. Ross lives in Richmond where he
serves as general counsel and legal advisor to
the Medical College of. Virginia and Virginia
Commonwealth University.

C. CRAWFORD WILLIAMS JR. is in a private law
practice in Birmingham. His wife, Lynn, is an
attorney with Protective Life Insurance Co.

‘THORNTON M. HENry (See 1966.)

1970

MARRIAGE: Georce Z. BATEH and Janan
Shannam on May 8, 1977, in Livonia, Mich.
The couple lives in Jacksonville, Fla., where he
is assistant state attorney in charge of the career
criminal division which prosecutes habitual of-
fenders.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Epwarp A. POWELL JR.,
a son, Ashton Winfield, on Sept. 20, 1977.
Powell receives his M.B.A. in June from the
University of North Carolina and will enter the
banking trade in Boston.

Davip R. FRANKSTONE is practicing law in Cha-

   

D. D. Kympton, 70

pel Hill, N. C., with the firm of Manning, Jack-
son, Osborn and Frankstone.

Davip D. KympTon has been promoted to assis-
tant vice president by the Bank of Virginia in
Richmond, where he had been a corporate ac-
counts officer. He received an M.B.A. degree
from the University of Virginia in 1974.

Dr. CHRISTOPHER R. MARTIN, who practices in
Fremont, Ohio, has been certified as a diplomate
of the American Board of Family Practice.

STUART L. PORTER is an assistant professor of
animal science at Blue Ridge Community Col-
lege in Weyers Cave, Va. He teaches in the
veterinary techician training program.

THOMAS R. ROBINETT has resigned as town at-
torney for Farmville, Va., and has formed Wil-
son and Robinett, a law firm in Crewe, Va.

Bruce S. SAMUELS has completed a residency in
internal medicine at Charity Hospital in New
Orleans and is now in private practice in east
New Orleans.

WILLIAM F. STONE JR. (See 1968.)

1971

BIRTH; Mr. and Mrs. JERRALD J. ROEHL, a
daughter, Katherine Channing, on Aug. 4,
1977, in Albuquerque. Roehl is immediate past
president of the New Mexico Bar’s young law-
yers section, a member of the board of directors
of the Albuquerque Bar Association, and of the
executive council of the American Bar Associa-
tion’s economics section. He heads his own law
firm.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. ROBERT G. WoopwWarbD,
a son, Charles Frederick, on Nov. 22, 1977.
Woodward is associated with the King and
Spalding law firm in Atlanta.

JAMES R. ALLEN was promoted on July 1, 1977,
to audit manager in the Washington office of
Price Waterhouse and Company.

CHRISTOPHER C. DOvE is working for WTOP,
the CBS radio affiliate in Washington, D. C.

‘THE REV. JEFFREY B. SPENCE Is the new pastor of
the Schroon Lake Community Church in
Schroon Lake, N. Y.

E. PEYTON VICKeERs and his wife live in Miami
where he is employed by the Georgia Pacific
Corp.

1972
MARRIAGE: BERNARD C. GricsBy II and Carol
A. Burins on Oct. 8, 1977, in Wilmington, Del.
W&L men in the wedding were Mark Young,
°73; Phil McFarlane, ’71; T. Brown, ’73; Bud

31

At the wedding of Craig B. Jones, 73, were (from top row left to
right) Carl R. (Russ) Fletcher III, ’74; George L. McChesney,
"79; Wilson F. (Wick) Vellines Jr., 68; Randolph L. Hutto, ’72;
Michael T. Thornton, ’70; Richard H. Middleton Jr., ’73;
Hobson G. (Skip) Booth, ’72; James A. Drakos, ’72; W. Hugh
Baugher, ’68; Frank L. Dudley, ’76; Charles M. (Mac) Cushing,
°75; Thomas H. (Harry) Wall IV, ’75; Mrs. Drakos; Lee S.
Thalheimer, ’73; Timothy F. Haley, ’73; Gary W. Poliakoff, ’73;
Thomas L. Howard, ’68; Frederick W. Woodward III, ’73;
Michael S. Davis, °73; John W. Folsom, ’73; George B. Wolfe, |
'73; Mark R. Young, ’73; Donald A. Sharpe, 69; and Jones. *

CLASS NOTES

Miller, ’71; and John Smith, ’69. Grigsby is a
government bond trader with Kidder, Peabody
Investment Bankers in New York. His wife is a
health care analyst for Blue Cross.

MARRIAGE; RICHARD L. WEBB and Patty Kallas
of Culpeper, Va., in February, 1977. After a
honeymoon in Europe that included a visit with
her family in Greece, the Webbs settled in Silver
Spring, Md. Both are employed by the Library
of Congress.

MARRIAGE: LLoyD SHELTON WOLF and Mary
Margaret Thompson on July 9, 1977, in Dallas.
Groomsmen included Harry Phillips, 772;
Donald Cartwright, ’72; Ken Evans, ’72; Stephen
Swenson, ’73; Gerald Weedon, ’70; Mark Grob-
myer, ’72; and Charles Holbrook Jr., 72. Guests
included Mitt Younts, ’72; Bill Brown, ’69; Drew
Kumpuris, ’71, and about 25 other W&L alum-
ni.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RosBert P. BEAKLEY, a
son, Timothy Andrew, on Aug. 7, 1977, in Ocean
City, N. J. Beakley is a staff attorney with Cape
Atlantic Chapter of the American Institute of
Banking. He is included in the first edition of
Who’s Who in American Law.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD W. WEIR Jr., a
son, Donald William III, on Aug. 26, 1977, in
Shreveport, La.

STEPHEN V. ANDRE earned the M.S. degree in
population ecology from the University of
Maryland in June, 1977. He is an instructor at
the University of Maryland, Baltimore County
campus, and lives in Vienna, Va.

BRADLEY G. BOONE is employed by the Johns
Hopkins University applied physics laboratory
in Laurel, Md. He is married to the former
Sandra Dixon and the couple has two children.

RALPH D. CALDRONEY is at the Medical Univer-
sity of South Carolina where he will be a chief
resident in medicine next year.

IRA FELDMAN is a new corporate attorney for
McDonald’s Corp. in Oakbrook, IIl.

ARTHUR N. FURHMAN is associated with the law
firm of Belson and Carlin in Basking Ridge,
N. J.

After graduating from Dickinson Law School in
1976, JOHN M. Guace became an assistant public
defender for Dauphin County, Harrisburg, Pa.
He continues to play for the Gallic Rugby Club
of Carlisle.

MarK J. HANSON has earned an M.B.A. from
the University of Utah. He works as a manage-
ment consultant in the finance and accounting
office of the Department of Energy in Wash-
ington.

32

Dr. CHARLES JAMES HARLAND JR. is stationed at
the Naval Regional Dental Center, NTC, Or-
lando, Fla. He will be discharged in June and
expects to enter private practice in Richmond,
Va.

E. Austin McCASKILt III is practicing law with
the firm of Barber, McCaskill, Amsler and Jones
in Little Rock, Ark. He and his wife have a one-
year-old daughter, Mary Grace.

RICHARD J. SPLITTORF has joined the general
advertising staff of the San Diego Union and
evening Tribune. He is living in La Jolla, Calif.

JOHN GRAHAM TUCKER has received an M.A. in
art history from the University of Chicago.

JOHN F. WATLINGTON IIT is an insurance broker
for Modine, Nesbit and Co. in Charlottesville.
He specializes in the design and administration
of executive fringe benefit programs. For sev-
eral years he has been a member of the Massa-
chusetts Mutual Life Insurance Co.’s Million
Dollar Round Table and won a number of other
company awards.

WILLIAM T. ANDERSON (See 1975.)

1973
MARRIAGE; Lawrence E. Evans JR. and Nancy
R. Campbell on Aug. 20, 1977, in Chattanooga,
Tenn. The couple is living in Houston where
Evans is practicing patent law with the firm of
Gunn and Lee.

MARRIAGE: ANDREW G. HOLLINGER and Mary
Catherine Bader on Dec. 31, 1977, in Rochester,
N. Y. Hollinger received an M.A. in history
from Emory University and now works in Ro-
chester as a systems engineer for I.B.M.

MARRIAGE: Cratic B. Jones and Carol Fulwiler
on Nov. 25, 1977, in Atlanta, Ga. Jones is an
attorney with the firm of King & Spalding. A
large number of W&L men were among the
wedding guests (see picture). Others present
but not pictured were Phil Thompson, 68; Bob
Woodward, ’71; Marshall Washburn, ’73; Dick
Marsh, ’73; Laurie McAlpine, ’73; Dave Cran-
shaw, ’77; John Keith, ’75; George Quarm, ’73;
Allan Brown, ’72, and Ed Callison, ’77.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Tuomas A. GOssE, a
daughter, Emily Noel, on Sept. 19, 1977. The
family lives in White Stone, Va.

GaTES G. BRELSFORD lives in Houston and works
for Occidental Petroleum, Inc., as a corporate
internal auditor. He audits subsidiaries in Can-
ada, Mexico, Latin America and Europe.

ROBERT T. BRUYERE is an architect with the
Houston firm of Nix, Spencer, Herolz and Dur-
ham, Inc.

  

F it @
pou

JEFFREY C. BurRIS is associated with the law
firm of Burris and Gross in Indianapolis.

JOHN H. Dumas IL is in his first year of medical
residency at the University of Cincinnati Medi-
cal Center.

JOHN W. FoLsom is vice president of a subsidiary
of South Carolina Federal Savings and Loan
Association and director of secondary market-

Ing.

WILLIAM B. FOWLER is with the institutional sales
department of the investment firm of Bache,
Halsey, Stuart, Shields in Atlanta, Ga.

JOHN C, FULLERTON III is a captain in the Army
Medical Corps undergoing a surgical internship
at Beaumont Army Medical Center in El Paso,
Texas. He will begin a general surgery residency
there next year.

RONALD T. GoLp has completed his duty with
the Marine Corps and is now an associate with
the law firm of Carter, Ansley, Smith and Mc-
Lendon in Atlanta, Ga.

RICHARD E. Gray III is practicing law in Hous-
ton with the firm of Butler, Binion, Rice, Cook
and Knapp.

ROBERT M. HEmM received his medical degree
from Cornell Medical School and is an intern at
Roger Williams Hospital in Providence, R. I.

Lr. CLYDE M. HENKEL was transferred to Coast
Guard headquarters in Washington as a lawyer
in the marine environmental protection divi-
sion.

Davip A. KANTOR graduated from Emory Law
School in 1976 and is licensed to practice in
Ohio. He lives in Cincinnati where he and his
wife, Leslie, have started the Springwater Cookie
Co., wholesale manufacturers of all-natural
chocolate chip cookies.

JAY H. KERN graduated from Tulane Univer-
sity’s law school in 1976 and works in construc-
tion defects litigation for the Louisiana attorney

. general’s office. He is vice president of the Alli-
ance for Good Government. Kern married the
former Betty Jean Straus in 1974.

Gary L. MarTIN Is working as director of finance
for the Catholic Diocese of Richmond, Va.

JAMES JASON MATTHEWS works as editor for an
analysis unit employed jointly by the defense
and state departments and writes short stories
for magazines in his free time. With David Fin-
nell, *74, he was a crewmember on a sloop in the
last Bermuda Race.

THE REV. FREDERICK E. ROBERTS is pastor of the
Gaston, N. C., charge of the United Methodist

At the wedding of W. Kennedy Simpson, °75;

were (left to right) Simpson, Mark J. Mennel, °75;
Robert R. Gray, ’75; E. Neal Cory, °77 (back-
ground); Thomas H. (Harry) Wall IV, ’75; Caldwell
Willig; William W. Crawford Jr., 76; Rogers L.
Crain, ’75; and Charles M. (Mac) Cushing, ’75.

Church and youth ministries coordinator for
the Rocky Mount District.

SIDNEY C. ROSEBERRY JR. has worked since
graduation in Africa for the Peace Corps and
the Agency for International Developemnt. He
will return to Senegal this spring to train new
Peace Corps volunteers and hopes to pursue
graduate studies in international development
in the fall.

Mark E. SKELLENGER graduated from Baylor
College of Medicine in May, 1976. He is now
second resident in general surgery at Washing-
ton University Medical School in St. Louis.

PauL C. SUTHERN has been promoted to con-
troller of the international division of Conval
Corp. with headquarters in Chicago. He has
completed the M.B.A. program at Xavier Uni-
versity in Cincinnati.

STEPHEN B. SUTTON is associated with the Kansas
City, Mo., law firm of Gage and Tucker. He was
formerly a staff attorney for the Missouri Court
of Appeals.

J. STANLEY TAYLOR received the master’s degree
in accounting from the University of Houston
on Dec. 20, 1977. He works with the investment
division of First City National Bank in Houston
where he sells government and municipal se-
curities to institutions.

Jack V. H. Wuippte II works for Manufacturers
Hanover Trust in New York as member of a
corporate lending team in the bank’s metro-
politan division.

GrorcGE B. Wo te received his J.D. degree from
the University of Pennsylvania law school where
he was editor of the law review and elected to
the Order of the Coif. He currently serves as
law clerk to Judge Russell, U. S. Court of Ap-
peals for the Fourth Circuit. He expects to join
the Washington, D. C., firm of Wilmer, Cutter
& Pickering in the fall of 1978.

1974
MARRIAGE: Vircit OaTEs BARNARD III and
Martina Gayle Swain on Oct. 8, 1977, in Frank-
fort, Ky. Barnard is an auditor for the Kentucky
revenue department and is mapping and ap-
praising unmined coal properties. The Bar-
nards are living on a farm outside Frankfort.

MARRIAGE: T. CALDER EZZELL JR. and Janet
Durham on Nov. 26, 1977, in Midland, Texas.
John H. Curtis Jr., ’74, was the best man. Other
W&L alumni in the wedding party were Fred C.
Durham, ’66; Lynn D. Durham Jr.,’72; Richard
B. Adams Jr., ’74; Virgil O. Barnard III, ’74;
Thomas L. Sansonetti, ’76, and E. Brew Houston
Jr., °77. Also present were William Pifer "76;
Bayard J. Snider, ’76; and John Ray Taylor, ’76.

The couple will live in Roswell, N. M., where
Ezzell is associated with the law firm of Hinkle,
Cox, Eaton, Coffield and Hensley.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. MarTIN E. STEIN JR., a
daughter, Ashley Wellhouse, in May, 1977. The
family lives in Jacksonville, Fla.

Jack E. ALTMAN III is an associate minister at
the Episcopal Church of the Incarnation in
Dallas, Texas. He was ordained on Jan. 6, 1978.

ARTHUR P. BOLToNn III has earned diplomate
status from the Court Practice Institute. He
completed an intensive week long seminar de-
signed to improve the trial skills of attorneys.
Bolton practices law in Birmingham, Ala.

CHESTER F. Burcess III has been appointed
weekend anchorman and producer for WTAR-
TV News in Norfolk.

James D. Farrar Jr. is assistant director of ad-
missions, history teacher, assistant varsity foot-
ball coach and junior varsity lacrosse coach at
Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Va.

W. BRADNEY GRIFFIN has started a new law firm;
Griffin and Griffin, Ltd., in Rutland, Vt. His
partner is his brother, H. Vaughan Griffin Jr.,
"7OL.

AVERILL C. Harkey is president of the student
bar association at Wake Forest University Law

School.

WILLIAM R. LaRosa JR. and classmate WILLIAM
F. BEACHAM are seniors at Tulane Medical
School. LaRosa and his new wife, Lark, live in
New Orleans.

FLoyp W. Lewis Jr. has completed a year of
theological study in Portland, Ore. He is now
studying at the New Orleans Baptist Theological
Seminary.

Neu D. Lutins will graduate from dental school
at the Medical College of Virginia in May and
enter a hospital residency program with the Air
Force. While at MCV, he received the A. D.
Williams Scholastic Award and Fellowship.

MIcHAEL D. PEPPLER will graduate in June from
the University of Miami School of Medicine and
will begin an internship in surgery at the Navy
Regional Medical Center in Portsmouth, Va.

An alumnus of Gilmour Academy in Gates Mill,
Ohio, GERARD D. PoraTH returned there in
July, 1977, as director of development and
alumni affairs.

RosBert M. Rainey earned the M.A. degree in
ecology and evolutionary biology from the Johns
Hopkins University. He teaches physics and
biology at the Brookwood School in Thomas-
ville, Ga.

 

James G. RocGers is working in the problem
loans division of Philadelphia National Bank
and has bought a home in St. Davids, Pa.

WILLIAM H. SANDERS JR. isa new member of the
Missouri Bar and is associated with a law firm in
Kansas City.

WILLIAM R. SPoFFORD III is working for DASD
Inc., a management consulting firm specializing
in data processing. He coached and played for
the Merion Cricket Club soccer team, which
won the Meinham Cup, the oldest trophy for
soccer in this country.

Joun S. WALLACE is working for First Computer
Services, a subsidiary of First Union Holding
Co. in Charlotte, N. C. He is a data base-com-
munications developer in the electronic funds
transfer application.

WILLIAM P. WALLACE JR. is practicing law with
the Roanoke firm of Eggleston & Glenn.

JOHN C. WEITNAUER graduated from law school
at the University of Georgia in June, 1977. He
was an editor of the Georgia Law Review and
coach of a moot court team. He is associated
with Alson, Miller and Gaines in Atlanta.

JOHN M. ZamoIskKI is a regional marketing di-
rector for Ringling Brothers and Barnum and
Bailey Circus and spends half of each year
working on the West Coast.

MARRIAGE: Paut R. GaRLock and Peg Scott
on June 4, 1977. The Garlocks are living in

North Canton, Ohio.

MARRIAGE: Thomas P. Lloyd and ANGELICA
PRESTON Dip1eR on Dec. 17, 1977, in ceremonies
in St. John’s Episcopal Church, Roanoke. She is
a member of the Norfolk and Western Railway
legal department. Her husband is associated
with the law firm of Dodson, Pence, Viar, Young
and Woodrum.

MARRIAGE: Jesse THOMAS MANN and Victoria
Leigh DeJarnette on June 25, 1977, in Virginia
Beach. Mann has received his M.A. in French
literature from the University of Virginia where
he was a duPont Fellow and graduate instructor.
The Mann’s are living in Chesapeake and he
teaches French.

MARRIAGE: WILLIAM KENNEDY SIMPSON and
Ann Tracy Sullivan on July 23, 1977, in Louis-
ville, Ky. In the wedding party were: Edmund
Seibels, ’74; Rogers Crain, ’°75; Mac Cushing,
°75; Robbie Gray, ’75; Mark Mennel, ’75; Harry
Wall, ’75; Bill Crawford, ’76; and Neal Cory, 77
(see picture). Also in attendance were: Robert
C. Hobson, 40; Ernest Woodward II, ’40; A. T.
Bishop, ’41; Don Sharpe, ’69; Doug Madison,

33

CLASS NOTES

72; Terry Tyler, 72; Craig Dumesnil, ’73; Ted
Blain, ’74; Bob Doll, °74; Ray Webb, ’75; Will
Ogburn, ’76, and Barry Barlow, ’77.

MARRIAGE: WI.1AM KELLER SMITH and Mar-
garet Hope Womble on Dec. 4, 1977, in Char-
lottesville, Va. Smith will graduate in May from
the University of Virginia law school and will
then reside in Atlanta.

WILLIAM E. ForLAND JR. was promoted to com-
puter systems analyst by Boeing Aerospace Co.
in Seattle, Wash.

Lr. J.G. KARL E. KLINGER, assigned to Attack
Squadron 65, home-ported in Virginia Beach,
is on extended deployment aboard the U.S.S.
Independence in the Mediterranean Sea. Klinger
is a bombadier/navigator for the A-6 aircraft.

Kim D. KUEHNER completed the M.B.A. pro-
gram at Washington University in St. Louis and
was elected to Beta Gamma Sigma. He is partici-
pating in the executive training program with
the May Co. there.

W. Davip Lawson IV works in New York for J.
P. Morgan Interfunding, a lending and leasing
affiliate of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co.

RALPH F. MacDona np III is in his third year of
the combined M.B.A./J.D. program at the Uni-
versity of Virginia. He is also clerking for the
Charlottesville law firm of Richmond and Fish-
burne.

Capt. JOHN I. McC urkin III is one of three
Marine Corps instructors on the staff of the
Naval Justice School in Newport, R. I. Also on
the staff is Capt. WILLIAM T. ANDERSON, ’72.

T. O. Rainey III is a senior law student at the
Marshall-Wythe law school at William and Mary.
He took the bar exam in February and plans to
open a practice in Virginia after graduation.

‘THOMAS B. Ramey III is a first-year student at
Dallas Theological Seminary. He expects to in-
tern in the summer of 1978 at the Fourth Pres-
byterian Church in Washington, D. C.

A third year student at SUNY Downstate Medi-
cal Center, MITCHELL J. SELEZNICK has won
second prize in the 1977 medical student re-
search competition with his project “Computer
Analysis of Factors Influencing Frequency of
Infection in Systemic Lupus Erythematosis.”

FRANKLIN P. SLAVIN JR. has become a partner in
the law firm of Bird and Slavin in Wytheville,
Va. His partner is DANIEL W. Birb, ’66L.

ANDREW T. SMITH is practicing law in Nashville,
‘Tenn.

‘THOMAS R. RoBINETT (See 1970.)
34

1976
MARRIAGE: RANDALL W. ATKINS and Barbara
Moses in May, 1977. The couple lives in Ash-
land, Ky., where Atkins is employed in the legal
department of Ashland Oil, Inc.

MARRIAGE: LELAND G. McCu.toucu III and
Emily Ann Fulgham were married Dec. 21,
1977, in Dallas, Texas.

RoBERT H. ANDERSON III is an assistant attorney
general for the Commonwealth of Virginia in
the criminal division.

R. STEWART BARROLL is a second-year law stu-
dent at Wake Forest University. Also in the
second year class are: Ralph Tellefsen III, ’76;
Thomas McClellan, ’76; Scott Stevenson, ’76,
and Averill Harkey, ’74 (See 1974.)

BEN REED BarTON worked in the summer as a
surgical assistant for a hospital in Nashville. He
is in his second year at the University of Tenn-
essee School of Medicine in Memphis.

FREDERICK L. BaTEs has passed the examination
for a certified public accountant and is employed
by Bates, Buras and Associates in New Orleans.

JAMEs P. Carmopy has started his own law prac-
tice in Richlands, Va. He is counsel for the in-
mates at nearby Bland Correctional Center.

Davip S. CAYER is in his second year of law
school at American University in Washington,
D. C.

Mark RANDALL CHAMBERS is working as a woods
supervisor for James M. Vardaman & Co. in
Macon, Ga. He plans to enter graduate school
in forestry in the fall.

Stationed at Fort Riley, PHitip L. HANRAHAN is
executive officer of a tank company.

ANDREW M. HEM is teaching English at Fu Jen
University in Taiwan and studying Chinese.

RICHARD F. MacDowELt is working as a proba-
tion and parole officer for Cook County, Chica-
go, Ill. He is also attending law school at night.

Henry M. MonraGuEz is selling real estate in
Charlottesville, Va., for the firm of Montague,
Miller & Co.

SPENCER W. MortEN III has joined the Bassett
Mirror Co. of Bassett, Va., as sales manager.

JOHN S. Norris JR. lives in Virginia Beach and is
an associate in the firm of Williams, Worrell,
Kelly, and Greer of Norfolk.

Lr. RoBert D. Propst is stationed at Ft. Camp-
bell, Ky. He is target acquisition platoon leader

and recon survey officer to the HHB division
artillery of the 101st Airborne Division.

Gary SELDOMRIDGE is attending the University
of Pennsylvania’s School of Dental Medicine.
Before entering dental school in September,
1977, he spent a year coaching swimming,
working as a carpenter, and traveling. He also
plays water polo for a Philadelphia club and
competed in the AAU indoor nationals in Pro-
vidence, R. I.

PauL A. SIMPSON is an admissions officer of
Alliance College in Cambridge Springs, Pa.

Curt N. SmirH and his wife are living in the
Panama Canal Zone where he is serving as a
second lieutenant with the 610th Military In-
telligence Detachment.

PAUL K. STILLWAGOn is in his first year of medi-
cal school at the University of Virginia.

STEPHEN R. STRAWSBURG will receive his M.B.A.
from Northwestern University in June, 1978.

1977

MARRIAGE: STEPHEN D. Goon and Becky Frost
on June 25, 1977, in Little Rock, Ark. Jim Fish-
er,’77, and Trip Wornom, ’77, were members
of the wedding. Good is enrolled in the Yale
Law School.

MIcHAEL D. ARMSTRONG is working for an ad-
vertising agency in Atlanta and is enrolled in a
masters degree program at Georgia State Uni-
versity.

WILLIAM FOLEY BEAUCHAMP is working as a
management trainee for Loyola Federal Savings
and Loan in Baltimore. He is doing graduate
study at night at the Johns Hopkins University.

MIcHAEL Howarp Crary is living in Hillsville,
Va., and working as a respiratory therapist
technician at Radford Community Hospital.

JAck B. DuDLEy is assistant director of admis-
sions at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
Lynchburg, Va.

ROGER B. DurHaM lives in Baton Rouge where
he works for the Louisiana State Mineral Board.

RICHARD P. FINK is completing his basic training
courses as an Army armor officer at Fort Knox,
Ky. After Ranger school, he will be stationed for
three years in Galenhouse, Germany.

W. ScoTT FRANKLIN is in the training program
of the First National Bank of Md. and lives in
Baltimore.

BRIAN LEE Garr is the office manager for a real
estate firm in Washington, D. C.

JAMES G. HousTON is working for the Century
National Bank of Broward County and attends
night courses at the American Institute of
Banking. He lives in Ft. Lauderdale.

THOMAS H. Hunrer III is teaching American
history at Hargrave Military Academy in Chat-
ham, Va. He expects to attend law school in
September, 1978.

EDWARD C. IrRBy JR. is a first year medical stu-
dent at the Medical College of Virginia in Rich-
mond.

Davin B. JOHNSTON is in his first year of graduate
work at the University of Michigan.

JAMES E. KOCH is attending the U.S. Army
Ranger School at Ft. Benning, Ga. Upon com-
pletion of the school he expects to be stationed
with the 76th Engineer Battalion in Ft. Meade,
Md.

RICHARD M. KOcH was elected to the law review
at Wake Forest University Law School where he
iS a senior.

Mark A. KRIEGER III is working in’ Baltimore,
Md., as manager of the bindery department in a
large printing firm. He plans to play or coach
lacrosse in the spring and plays tennis to stay in
shape.

BENJAMIN M. LowE is serving in the army. After
the basic officer’s course at Fort Bliss, Texas, he
will report to Germany for duty in May.

ROBERT K. Lyrorp lives in Livingston, N. J.,
and works as a commercial casualties under-
writer for Chubb and Son, Inc.

RICHARD Henry McCUuLLocu has been pro-
moted to account executive at Cox Advertising
in Atlanta, Ga.

Having completed infantry officer basic train-
ing, Lr. JAMEs B. MALLory III is stationed at Ft.
Benning, Ga., awaiting airborne school. He ex-
pects to be permanently stationed at Ft. Bragg,
N. C., with the 2nd Brigade of the 82nd Air-
borne Division.

E. MorGAN MAXWELL III was admitted to the
Ohio Bar on Nov. 4, 1977. He is associated with
Arter and Hadden, a corporate and general law
firm in Cleveland.

JOHN D. ROSEN is at the Northwestern University
School of Business and expects to graduate in
June with an M.B.A. in marketing and finance.

JAmeEs D. SCHAKENBACH Is a reporter and adver-
tising editor for WBIS radio in Bristol, Conn.

James U. Scott isa first-year medical student at
the Johns Hopkins University.

JOHN H. Scruccs is employed as a merchandis-
ing manager by Vulcan Metal Products, Inc. in
Birmingham, Ala.

STUART W. SERENBETZ is doing graduate work
at the Amos Tuck School of Business Admini-
stration at Dartmouth.

FRANK K. TURNER JR. has returned from a five-
week tour of Europe and has entered the job
market.

JOHN ULIz1o is working as a legislative and ad-
ministrative aide to U.S. Senator Gary Hart. He
plans to attend law school.

TIMOTHY R. VAUGHAN Is a first year student at
the University of Texas law school.

James WILLIAM WILKINSON is working in Roa-
noke. He sings in his church choir and is chair-
man of the music and worship committee.

After a summer spent in Greece, Lewis R.
WINDHA-M II has returned to Springville, Ala.
where he is vice president of three family-owned
gas companies.

WaRREN WOLFE is a first-year-law student at
Wake Forest University.

T. CALDER EzZELL JR. (See 1974.)

WILLIAM P. WALLACE Jr. (See 1974.)

RICHARD L. LOVEGROVE is the education writer
for the Martinsville, Va., Bulletin.

S. F. RAYMOND SMITH began law school at West
Virginia University in Morgantown in

September.

ROBERT A. WILSON JR. is working in Research
and Development for General Tire and Rubber
Co. in Charlotte N.C.

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1910

FRANK YOUNG CONNER, the senior member of
the Conner Building and Construction Co. in
Tuskegee, Ala., died Dec. 16, 1977. A native of
Tuskegee, Conner had served as a deacon at the
First Baptist Church.

1912

Dr. RoBert C. Hoop of Arlington, Va., died at
Baker Veterans Administration Center Jan. 31,
1978. Hood was a graduate of the Johns Hop-
kins medical school and was in private practice
of pediatrics in Clarksburg, W. Va., and in Ar-
lington, Va., for 40 years. He served as director

of the National Crippled Children’s Program;
director of maternal and child health in Florida;
past president of the Arlington Medical Society;
diplomate of the American Academy of Pedia-
trics; and director of public health for Berkely
County, W. Va., for five years. He was a veteran
of World War I, having served in the Army
Medical corps.

1915

GASTON CHAVES, a prominent industrialist and
businessman in Curityba, Brazil, died Nov. 30,
1977. Chaves, an electrical engineer was partner
and director of Industrias Eletricas Do Brasil
Ltda., who are manufacturers of electrical and
gas products. Chaves held a Brazilian patent on
an electrical device for burning rubbish. Chaves
had visited the W&L campus in the spring of
1977.

THE REv. ROBERT M. MCGEHEE, a retired Pres-
byterian minister who served for years in Miss-
issippi and Louisiana, died Dec. 11, 1977. Mc-
Gehee was pastor in Magnolia, Miss., Mansfield,
La., and Weatherford, Texas. He served as re-
gional director of C. E. Synod of Louisiana. The
burial service was held in the church in which he
was reared in Liberty, Miss.

SHARMAN OWSLEY, an insurance man in Tulsa
and Oklahoma City, Okla., died July, 1977 in
Chickasha.

1917

CHARLES GIVEN PETERS, senior member of the
Charleston, W. Va., law firm of Peters, Mer-
ricks, Leslie, Kenna and Mohler, died Jan. 1,
1978. A veteran of World War I, Peters was past
president and a member of Kanawha County
Bar Association and a member of the West Vir-
ginia Bar. He was active in Democratic politics
and was campaign manager for the late Gov.
Homer A. Holt in 1936 and Gov. Meadows in
1945. Peters served in the West Virginia House
of Delegates from 1948 to 1950 and the Presi-
dential Electoral College in 1937 and 1945.

1919

JESSE WILSON BENTON, an attorney in Danville,
Va., died Dec. 6, 1977. Benton was the author
of several books including Men of the Time, Sixty
Years at Mount Vernon, Thirty Years at the Danville,
Virginia Bar, Spring Breezes on a Rainbow, and
Portrait, History of Benton Family 1966. Benton
began practice in Danville in 1920.

1923

J. FRANK RusHTON, long-time resident of Bir-
mingham, Ala., and one-time president of the
Alabama Chamber of Commerce died Jan. 4,
1978. Rushton is credited with being the author

35

IN MEMORIAM

of the famous “Birmingham Plan,” under which
chief executives interviewed the returning serv-
icemen and aided them in finding jobs.

1925
ALLEN Mosser BALLIET died Jan. 22, 1978, in
Belfast, Maine. He had served for many years as
an accountant for the state of Pennsylvania. He
served with the U. S. Coast Guard during World
War II.

1932

Prominent Jacksonville attorney JOHN WILLIS
BALL died suddenly on Jan. 28, 1978, while
playing golf. Mr. Ball was a grandson of Willis
M. Ball, editor and chief of the Florida Times-
Union for 39 years, and the son of Philip M. Ball,
long-time managing editor of the paper. Ball
began practice in Jacksonville immediately after
graduation from the W&L law school. From
1937 through 1954 he served as special attorney
for the Lands Division of the United States De-
partment of Justice. In 1947 Ball became a
member of a law firm and in 1960 he became a
senior partner of the firm, Ulmer, Murchison,
Ashby & Ball. He was serving as class agent for
the W&L Alumni Fund and had distinguished
himself in service to his alma mater. Ball is sur-
vived by his widow, the former Margaret Ann
Moreland, daughter of the dean of the W&L
law school for many years.

‘THOMAS WEST WALKER, a native of Kentucky
but a resident of Jacksonville, Fla., for the past
55 years, died Jan. 15, 1978. Walker was a vet-
eran of World War II and former owner of
Tommy’s Gift Shop.

1935

HARVARD PAYSON SMITH, a retired Air Force
colonel and a resident of Nashville, Tenn., died
Jan. 15, 1978. A native of Franklin County,
Tenn., Smith was a brother-in-law of Gen.
Douglas MacArthur. He served 30 years in the
U.S. Air Force and was a veteran of World War
II and the Korean and Vietnam conflicts. Fol-
lowing his retirement in 1966, Smith lived in
Panama City, Fla., where he was engaged with
the Etheridge Boat Co. At W&L, Smith was an
outstanding wrestler. Before World War II he
was chief clerk for the Tennessee Electric Power
Co. and a manager of a work clothes manufac-
turing firm in Shelbyville, Tenn.

1936

J. EArt Hicks, who was director of the Bureau
of Statistics for the International Monetary
Fund, died Jan. 12, 1978, at his home
in Owings, Md. Following graduation from W&L
Hicks worked for the Federal Reserve Bank of
Atlanta and was an economist with the monetary
research division of the Treasury Department.
During World War II he served with the U. S.
Coast Guard, returning to the Treasury De-

36

partment after the war as principal economist
in the Division of Monetary Research. In 1946,
Hicks joined the newly-established Interna-
tional Monetary Fund as a researcher and in
1949 was appointed chief of the statistics divi-
sion. During his service with the IMF he played
a leading role in the development of such Fund
publications as International Financial Statistics
and Direction of Trade, the world’s foremost
publications on these subjects.

SIDNEY ULFELDER JR., a former representative
for Iberia Airlines in Philadelphia, died Dec.
11, 1977. After graduate work at Cornell Uni-
versity, Ulfelder was a director of the Westgate
Corp. in McLean, Va., a land-development
firm. He retired from Iberia Airlines in 1967
and had lived for several years in southern Spain.

1937

WILLIAM HEATH ALLEN, a former real estate
manager for Texaco Inc., Southeastern region,
died March 4, 1977. Allen was also a practicing
attorney. As a certified property manager he
was a member of the Atlanta Real Estate Board,
the American Right of Way Association, and
the Grand Jurors Association of Fulton County,
Ga.

GEORGE FRANKLIN GILLELAND, past president of
the Bath Club, Miami, Fla., and former attorney
for the Florida State Racing Commission, died
Jan. 3, 1978. Gilleland was formerly associated
with the law firm of Scott, McCarthy, Preston,
Steel and Gilleland.

BEN EDWARD SCHULL, who opened his own in-
surance agency in Terre Haute, Ind., and rep-
resented The Travelers Insurance Cos. and
other major companies for over 40 years, died

Dec. 4, 1977. He was active in his insurance
business until his death.

1938

JAMES ARTHUR INGALLS JR., a career officer with
the U. S. Navy and former civilian purchasing
agent for the Air Force at Hamson Field in
Bedford, Mass., died Feb. 27, 1977, in Scotts-
dale, Ariz. He had retired to Scottsdale in 1971.

HENRY BRIDGESS POHLZON, a long-time em-
ployee of the Texas Employment Commission,
died Dec. 19, 1977, in Dallas, Texas. Pohlzon
was a veteran of World War II who served in the
U.S. Army Air Corps.

1939

JAMES ALAN BALLARD, a retired executive of
Ballard Fish & Oyster Co. in Norfolk, Va., died
Dec. 9, 1977. He had been with the Ballard Co.
for 30 years. Ballard was a member of the Vir-
ginia State Bar Association and the First Pres-
byterian Church.

WALTER SCRUGGS CARRUTH, a retired architect
and lifelong resident of Dallas, Texas, died Dec.
4, 1977. Carruth was engaged in the insurance
business.

1942

‘THOMAS OLIN FLEMING, retired chief counsel of
the Nevada Operations Office of the Atomic
Energy Commission, died Jan. 18, 1978, in Las
Vegas, Nev. As an AEC attorney, Fleming
worked with the legal aspects of the nuclear test-
ing program at the Nevada Test Site and other
locations from 1963 until his retirement in 1974.
He handled several suits concerning tests of
nuclear explosives for peaceful purposes in
Colorado and also did legal work in suits arising
from testing programs on Amchitka Island in
the Aleutians. After obtaining his law degree
from W&L in 1948 he joined the Department of
Justice as a trial attorney. In 1953 Fleming
transferred to the AEC. Prior to going to Ne-
vada, he worked with the AEC in Portsmouth,
Ohio, at the Oak Ridge, Tenn., operation office
and at AEC headquarters in Washington, D. C.

1944

WILLIAM RALPH KRAUSMANN, a merchant and
former purchasing agent for Roblin Steel Corp.
of Tonawanda, N. Y., died Nov. 26, 1977, in
Lewiston, N. Y. He was a veteran of World War
II.

1960

ROBERT S. BANnks, formerly a vice-president of
Banks Engineering Corp. a builder and de-
veloper in Bethesda, Md., died in a skiing acci-
dent on Jan. 15, 1978.

1961

Davin K. E. BRUCE, a veteran American diplo-
mat who received an honorary LL.D. from W&L
in 1961, died Dec. 6, 1977. Bruce had served in
a variety of posts including mainland China.
His diplomatic career spanned six presidents’
administrations. Bruce was the only American
ever to serve as ambassador to Germany,
France, and Great Britian. He retired from the
diplomatic corps in February, 1976, at the age
of 78, at which time President Ford presented
him with the Medal of Freedom. Besides his
diplomatic tours, Bruce served as chief repre-
sentative of the American Red Cross in London
during World War II. He also directed the
European operations of the Office of Stategic
Services, the predecessor of the Central Intelli-
gence Agency. He maintained a farm near
Brookneal in Charlotte County, Va.

1976

WILLIAM PATRICK COLEMAN Jr. of Lexington,
Va., died Dec. 22, 1977. Before attending W&L,
Coleman had attended Davis & Elkins College.

 

- WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI, INC.

For members and their immediate families presents

Pick A Trip 1978

 

(+15% Tax & Service)
Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $100.00

 

* Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge
+ Copenhagen departure tax (approx. $1.90) not included

CG BHPE RY HAAG cou.

May 30—June 7, 1978
Dulles Departure

$459

Your Trip Includes-

 

Round trip jet transportation to Copenhagen via Trans International

Airlines wide-bodied DC-10 (meals and beverages served aloft”):
stereo music and in-flight movies available at a nominal charge;
normally evening departure

Deluxe accommodations at the beautiful COPENHAGEN ADMIRAL
HOTEL (or similar)

Continental breakfast daily (tax and service included)

Guided city tour

Exciting low-cost optional tours available - Sweden, Norway, etc.
United States departure tax ($3.00) included t

All gratuities for chambermaids, bellboys and doormen

All round trip transfers and baggage handling from airport to hotel
Free time to pursue your own interests; no regimentation

Experienced escort and hotel hospitality desk, staffed by an on-site
team of professionals

 

 

July 24—August 1, 1978
Dulles Departure

$459

(+15% Tax & Service)
Per person-Double occupancy
Single Supplement - $100.00

 

Tt lreland departure tax (approx. $5.25) not included

* Alcoholic beverages available at a nominal charge

** Some tours will be three nights in Limerick, two nights in Tralee, two nights
in Dublin/or three nights in Tralee, two nights in Dublin, two nights in Limerick

NDC when

Your Trip Includes-

 

Round trip jet transportation to Ireland (Shannon International Airport) via
Trans International Airlines’ wide-bodied DC-10 (meals and beverages served
aloft*); stereo music and in-flight movies available at a nominal charge; normally
evening departure

Deluxe accommodations for three nights in Dublin at the BURLINGTON
HOTEL (or similar) **

Continental breakfast daily in Dublin (tax and service included)

Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Dublin to Limerick
(Shannon) :

Beautiful accommodations for two nights in Limerick at the LIMERICK RYAN
HOTEL or LIMERICK INN HOTEL (or similar) **

Continental breakfast daily in Limerick (tax and service included)

Round trip transportation via deluxe motorcoach from Limerick to Tralee, in
the heart of ‘’Ryan’s Daughter” country

Beautiful accommodations for two nights in Tralee at the MT. BRANDON
HOTEL (or similar) **

Continental breakfast daily in Tralee (tax and service included)
Passengers will be accompanied by Ireland’s finest guides during transfers
Exciting low-cost optional tours available

United States departure tax ($3.00) included t

All gratuities for chambermaids, bellmen and doormen

All round trip transfers and baggage handling from airport to hotels

Free time to pursue your own interests; no
regimentation

Experienced escort and hotel hospitality desk,
staffed by an on-site team of professionals

 

PHONE: (703)-463-9111 Ext. 214--318

 

For further information, contact: William C. Washburn, Washington and Lee University, Alumni, Inc., Lexington, VA

24450

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood) .

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-]ACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

