the alumni magazine of washington and lee university MARCH 1974

ft >) 3 “4 - ~
AFR 15 19/74

Ji &

; oe
ie ; Library of
| eee Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

CS

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 49, Number 2, March 1974

Wrarsnet Ci Widener 40 i oo, ae, soneans Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman........................ Managing Editor
BOvert so: ROG: Bese oi Associate Editor
Mine FOVOR Cate ack. asics Editorial Asststant
WROTE SOCOM oe ea oie aco on Photographer

TABLE OF CONTENTS

Powell is. Poutiders' : Day Spraker (5.0.3.... 2.0302... ]
DR: Chaps header rc a se nee 5
Pooled Income Fund Established ........................ 7
An tnterew with: Holter a ea ee 10
Preshian Attitude Survey oe 15
Puley Divess 49° Back es aes 18
Sprite Oports Schedite= oc Gi 20
Dr. ‘Thomas Wins Lynchburg Citation .............. 21
ae OER ee ee Vis
30, NECTOOEI ANE <0. 3 icons aioe eh 30
SITOCRIOD “Ala i ee eae ee Se

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September,
November and December by Washington and Lee University
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications
and POD Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. Second class postage
paid at Lexington, Virginia 24450, with additional mailing
privileges at Roanoke, Virginia 24001.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

WILLIAM H. HILuier, 38, Chicago, II.
President

‘Tl’. HAL CLARKE, ’38, Washington, D.C.
Vice President

EVERETT TUCKER, JR., ’34, Little Rock, Ark.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, 40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

THomMaS B. BRANcH, III, 58, Atlanta, Ga.
ALBERT D. Darsy, JR., 43, Cumberland, Md.
RicHARD D. Haynes, 58, Dallas, ‘Texas
VERNON W. HOLLEMAN, 758, Washington, D.C.
C. Royce Houeu, ’59, Winston-Salem, N.C.
‘THEODORE M. Kerr, ’57, Midland, ‘Texas
J. PETER G. MUHLENBERG, ’50, Wyomissing, Pa.
CHARLES C. STIEFF, II, ’45, Baltimore, Md.
J. THomas ‘Toucnuton, ’60, ‘Tampa, Fla.

tilt
oo _

On the Cover: The pictures preface much of the
contents of this issue. U. S. Supreme Court Jus-
tice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., after addressing the
Founders’ Day assembly, greets Dean Emeritus
Frank J. Gilliam (See P. 1). Former Virginia Gov.
Linwood Holton is relaxed as he talks with WeL
editors about his new post in Washington (See
P. 10). And it’s cheek-to-cheek again as Fancy Dress
is revived. (See P. 18).

 

 

 

 

 

 

by Lewis F. Powell, Jr.

‘We need...a renewal of optimism...
also a wiser perspective of history’

Justice Powell addresses Lee’s Birthday-ODK Convocation.
March 1974

 

 

U.S. Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr.,
delivered the following address on Jan. 21 at the

Lee’s Birthday-Founders’ Day Convocation, which
coincided with the annual Omicron Delta Kappa
“tapping” ceremonies. Justice Powell earned both his
undergraduate and law degrees from Washington and
Lee and has been a member of the University Board
of Trustees since 1961.

We meet this morning for two purposes: to honor
the founding fathers of this University, and especially
General Lee whose birthday [Jan. 19] was so recent.

We are also here to recognize the role of Omicron
Delta Kappa, as it “taps” the campus leaders whom
it honors by membership. The faculty and students

of W&L have long derived hope and inspiration
from our founders, and ODK has contributed signifi-
cantly to the W&L tradition of training men for
leadership roles in society.

It will not surprise you for me to repeat the

cliché that there has never been a time when we in
this country had a greater need for hope, inspiration,
and leadership. We all have reason to believe this.
Yet in the long run, the type of society in which you
and your families will live will depend in large part
on our response to the convergence of national and
world problems which now seem so acute.

Handwringing, pessimism, recrimination, and
despair—though quite the mood among many today—
will solve few problems and should be rejected as a
national frame of mind. We need, rather, a renewal
of the optimism and faith in our country that have
been characteristic of Americans since Colonial
times. We also need a wiser perspective of history.

It must be remembered that no nation, not even
America, has a history free from periods of the
gravest problems. ‘There have been wars, revolutions,
cataclysmic natural disasters, plagues, and economic
depressions. Nations have risen and fallen, and indeed
no nation has survived as such indefinitely.

In view of the occasion which brings us together,
it may be appropriate to take a closer look at one
period in the history of this country which—certainly
for many people—must have been viewed with total
hopelessness. I refer to the weeks and months after

 

‘We now confront ... another period

of grave problems. Despite talks of peace
and detente, the danger of international
discord and even violence is ever present...”

the surrender of the Confederate forces at Appomattox
and to the reconstruction years which followed.
General Lee returned to Richmond, where his
family lived in a rented house which had survived the
burning of much of the city. Dr. Douglas Freeman,
who wrote the definitive biography of Robert E. Lee,
described conditions in Richmond at that time:
the agonized city was close to chaos. The old govern-
ment and the familiar landmarks were gone. Con-
federate money was worthless, and no one had any
United States currency.
Indeed, few families had provisions of any kind.
In the fire of April 2 and 3, the public supplies of
the Confederacy and the stocks of the principal stores
had been destroyed or looted. No trains were running,
and the mail system had been wiped out. Only one

newspaper was being printed and that one, the Whig,

was scorned by the citizens because in the fading
days of the Confederate cause, it had “turned coat’’
and come out for the Yankees.

These conditions, although perhaps more acute in
the capital city so recently under seige, were by no
means unique. Generally similar conditions, especially
with respect to economic chaos, pervaded the entire
South. And as vindictive politicians gained temporary
control in Washington, and the harsh sanctions of
reconstruction were imposed on a wrecked economy,
the South was almost an economic wasteland for
many years.

It is profoundly heartening to recall what General
Lee did.He was far too perceptive not to comprehend
the basic problems of reuniting a nation torn by
four years of perhaps the bloodiest civil war in history.
He knew perfectly well that ultimate hope lay in
reconciliation. He also knew that Virginia and the
South needed leadership; leadership which would nur-
ture hope as well as cooperate with patriotic men in
the North who also recognized that the war had been
fought to reunite—not to subjugate—the Southern states.

The pressures on General Lee understandably
came from many sources. Old friends with whom he
had attended West Point and served in the United
States Army, including General Mead, who made a
special visit to Richmond for the purpose, importuned
Lee to take immediately the oath of allegiance to

2

 

 

the federal government. Lee’s response was typical.

He recognized the United States as the only estab-
lished authority, but would not change his own status
as a paroled prisoner of war until he knew the atti-
tude of the government toward other Southern parolees.

He was urged by some to go to England, where he
would have been warmly welcomed, and many old
comrades—bitter and unwilling to face the debacle in
the South—urged that he go elsewhere. In a letter to
General Beauregard, General Lee wrote:

“I am glad [you have no] intention to leave the
country. I think the South requires the aid of her

sons now more than at any period in her history .. .

I have no thought of abandoning her .. .”

This, he did not do. :

General Lee also resisted a lucrative offer to write
his war memoirs, saying he would not profit by the
tragedy of civil war. Rather, he chose to accept a
meager offer from Washington College to become
its President, saying:

“I think it is the duty of every citizen, in the present
condition of the country, to do all in his power to

aid in the restoration of peace and harmony...”

In presenting this brief summary of conditions
following the Civil War, I do not suggest that the
causes for concern today are necessarily parallel.

The consequences of the ravages of war, the short-
sighted policies of reconstruction, and the impact of
the Industrial Revolution on an economy wholly
unprepared for it, depressed and retarded opportunity
in the South for half a century.

I have used the Civil War and its aftermath to
emphasize a lesson of history: that it is the lot of
mankind to undergo trials and tribulations, to suffer
periods—sometimes extended ones—that do indeed try
the souls of men. I have mentioned General Lee’s
response to such a period because of his incomparable
example of resolve and steadfastness at a time of
dark adversity. |

We now confront, as your generation faces the
future, another period of grave problems. Despite talks
of peace and detente, the danger of international dis-
cord and even violence is ever present; and, more
recently, there is the energy crisis and the spectre
of uncontrollable inflation. In addition to these

WeL

 

 

 

Justice Powell and son, Lewis, III, ODK president, talk with initiates after the convocation.

worldwide problems, the fabric of our own national
unity has been torn by the Vietnam War, and con-
fidence in government itself shaken by recent events.
No thoughtful person can view with complacency these
threats to peace, stability and prosperity.

It would be equally short-sighted, however, to
assume that the problems are insoluble—that chaos
is inevitable. If this sort of fatalism sets in, if the
public generally and our young people in particular
think nothing can be done, or if we leave solutions
to others and feel no personal responsibility our-
selves, then indeed we may deserve the worst.

It is here that a sense of history is so essential.
We must remind ourselves and others that few
generations in all of history have been without their
dark periods. It is in times such as these that we also
need faith—faith in God as we individually perceive
Him, faith in ourselves and our institutions, and faith
in our country.

There is certainly a marked erosion of faith in our
country. To be sure, this is a difficult time to believe

March 1974

 

in one’s country. Every tenth grader can give you a
bill of particulars of our mistakes and of what is
wrong with America. The theme is a familiar one,
often repeated in varying degrees in public and priv-
ate: our democracy is a sham, our system is repressive
of liberty, most politicians are untrustworthy, and
America is a selfish, materialistic, racist society—with
unworthy goals and warped priorities.

In my view, this is a self-indictment which greatly
exaggerates—and even distorts—the truth about our
country. In a sense, we are the victim of our own
propensity for exaggeration in self criticism as well as
in overstating our virtues in happier times. There
is an urgent need for balance and restraint by all of
us, whether in public or private life.

Again, I emphasize the need also of a proper
perspective of history. Among its lessons is the cer-
tainty that man’s weaknesses and imperfections are not
uniquely of this generation, but of all time. The
same of course is true of man’s institutions. But without
condoning any misconduct or shortcomings of the

 

 

“We enjoy in America not just economic
opportunities but liberties—protected

by the rule of law—that are

the envy of mankind.”’

past or present, I think a strong case can be made
for the view that the history of this country, on
balance, is a proud and decent one.

We have had a consistent vision, since the De-
claration of Independence, of a society in which all
men can live in self-respect, participate freely in self-
government, and pursue responsibly their own
aspirations. To be sure, there have been sorrowful
deviations from this vision, especially in racial in-
justice. Yet, at the threshold of 1974, no one can
fairly question the present national commitment to
assure full equality and justice.

Among the specific charges most frequently made
against our country is that it is repressive, especially
with respect to First Amendment rights and criminal
justice. I recently heard a widely known American
writer sarcastically attacking as sham and pretense our
professed dedication to the Bill of Rights, and es-
pecially First Amendment rights. I will only say that
if there is another country and a system of law which
more zealously preserve freedom of press and speech
than ours, no one has yet identified it.

As for those who repetitively assert that our
criminal justice system is unfair and repressive, the
most charitable thing that can be said is that they are
uninformed. Former California Chief Justice Roger
J. Traynor, one of our greatest jurists, has responded
this way:

“It is irresponsible to echo [the] demagogic non-
sense .. . that one group or another in this country
cannot get a fair trial. . . . No country in the world
has done more to ensure fair trials.”

The antecedents of our dedication to due process
of law are deeply rooted. ‘They go back to Magna
Carta, the Virginia Declaration of Rights, and the
Bill of Rights of the Constitution. They have been ex-
panded and amplified by the Court upon which I sit.
Indeed, safeguarding the liberties derived from them
is our first responsibility, and may it ever be so.

It is fair to say, I think, that we have kept the
faith with these noble antecedents. This is not to sug-
gest that injustice and arbitrary action have wholly
disappeared. There will never be such a utopian
society. Yet, the trend and the balance are favorable.
We enjoy in America not just economic opportunities

4

 

but liberties—protected by the rule of law—that are the
envy of mankind. With a system derived from the
common law and the great English charters of liberty,
the ideal of individual freedom has been preserved in
the English speaking countries more fully and for per-
haps the longest sustained period in all history.

Our foreign policy also is attacked as imperialistic
and even as immoral. Whatever mistakes have been
made over the years—and certainly they are not
inconsequential—it can be said with truth that no
powerful country, victor in major wars, has sought less
for itself or taken less from other nations and people
than the United States of America. We have initiated
no war of aggression, certainly not in this century.
Nor has any other country in all history shared its
skills and material resources more generously with
other countries and peoples, including those con-
quered, than the America which now is so frequently
denigrated by her own citizens.

Whatever the faults and problems of our country
and system may be, the essential structure of our
democracy and freedom under the rule of law gives
hope for the future and is worth struggling to pre-
serve. If one has doubts, let him reflect upon the most
likely alternative: the fascist or communist type of
totalitarian regime, where—as Solzhenitsyn has written
so poignantly—repression is always a brooding omni-
presence and not just a slogan.

But no democratic system, however soundly con-
ceived, can be preserved without citizen leadership
and active citizen participation. Democracy is not a
spectator sport. The grave problems which do indeed
confront our people cannot be met and ultimately
overcome without participating and responsible citi-
zenship. It is here that Washington and Lee—with
assistance from Omicron Delta Kappa—has contributed
so much.

Few universities or colleges of anywhere near
comparable size have succeeded over the decades in
inspiring so well their students to assume the duties as
well as the privileges of citizenship. This is no time
for spectators on the sidelines. It is certainly no time
for undue pessimism and continued self-flagellation.
Rather, as in another era of doubt and misgivings,
this is a time to follow the example of Robert E. Lee.

WeL

ODK honors 20 students, three alumni,
and a Lexington business leader

Three outstanding alumni, a Lexing-
ton business leader, and 20 Washington
and Lee students were initiated as mem-
bers of Omicron Delta Kappa at “tap
day” ceremonies on Jan. 21. The event
was combined with the Lee’s Birthday-
Founders’ Day Convocation at which
Supreme Court Justice Lewis F. Powell,
Jr., was the speaker.

The honorary alumni members were:

Virginia Del. Lewis A. McMurran,
Class of 1936, chairman of Virginia’s
Bicentennial Commission and also chair-
man of the Jamestown Foundation. He
represents Newport News in the Vir-
ginia House of Delegates. McMurran
could not be present for the ceremony
and was “tapped” in absentia.

T. Hal Clarke of Atlanta, a 1938
law graduate, a prominent attorney and
a member of the Federal Home Loan
Bank. He is vice president of the Alum-
ni Board of Directors and has _ been
chairman of the Corporation, Banking,
and Business Law section of the
American Bar Association and of the

ABA Committee on Savings Associations

 

and Building Societies. He has been an
FHLB member since 1969.

Powell Glass, Jr., a 1939 graduate,

Above: ODK honorees Powell Glass, Jr.,
newspaper executive, and T. Hal Clarke,
oulstanding attorney, converse with Dean
Emeritus Frank J. Gilliam before the
“lapping” ceremonies.

Below: Lexington industrialist Richard
C. Emrey and his wife, Marilyn, listen
intently to Justice Powell’s address.

March 1974 9

 

ODK Convocation

 

 

publisher and general manager of the
Lynchburg News and Advance. His
brother, Thomas Glass, a 1949 gradu-
ate, is co-publisher and executive editor
of the Lynchburg papers. The Powell
family and the newspapers have been
generous benefactors of W&L.

‘The Lexington industrialist honored
was Richard C. Emrey, an alumnus of
Lehigh University. He is executive vice
president of Burlington Industries and
general manager of the corporation’s
James Lees Carpet plant in Glasgow,
near Lexington. He became director of
manufacturing at Lees in 1966 and _ is
active in business and civic organizations
in the area.

The students “tapped” were G. W.
Austin, III, of Virginia Beach, B. L.
Bailey of Parkersburg, W. Va., J. H.
Beaty, Jr. of Memphis, Tenn., W. T.
Brotherton of Charleston, W. Va., J. M.
Costan of Lynchburg, L. H. Framme of
Lexington, M. Guroian of Stamford,
Conn., J. F. Hanzel of Lexington, P. J.
Lancaster of Dunkirk, N. Y., R. M.
Lamb, III, of Lexington, T. B. Long,
III, of Cape Charles, Va., J. L. Nalley,
Jr., of College Park, Ga., R. G. Piranian
of Oreland, Pa., T. B. Ramey, III, of
Tyler, Tex., H. R. Rubenstein of Shreve-
port, La., M. E. Stein, Jr., of Jackson-
ville, Fla., D. M. Thomas of New York
City, R. P. Trice, Il, of Richmond,
W. P. Wallace, Jr., of Roanoke, and
B. H. Wood of Lynchburg.

Lewis F. Powell, III, a W&L senior
and son of Justice Powell, presided at
the “tap” ceremonies. He is president of
the W&L ODK chapter. Both Powells
were elected to ODK membership while
officers of the student body at W&L —
Justice Powell in 1929 as president, and
Lewis, III, last year as student body
secretary.

6

 

At left: State Del. Lewis A. McMurran,
chairman of the Virginia Bicentennial
Commission, who was initiated into
ODK in absentia.

Below: Participating in the 1974 ODK
ceremonies were the only two living
founders of the society at Washington and
Lee in 1914: James E. Bear, ’15, of Rich-
mond, and Rupert N. Latture, ’15, professor
emeritus of politics and an advisor to

the President of the University.

 

Pooled Income Fund is now in
it's anew way to

The Washington and Lee Pooled
Income Fund is now in operation,
offering alumni and friends a new
and satisfying way of helping the
University meet its future financial
requirements.

Participation in the Fund _ en-
ables a donor to make a gift of capi-
tal to the University, continue to
receive income from it for himself or
his family, and often reap substan-
tial tax savings.

At this writing, three generous
gifts have been received by the Uni-
versity under the Pooled Income
Fund arrangement. These gifts form
a solid base for its operation.

The Estate Planning Council,
headed by Martin P. Burks, °32, of
Roanoke, Va., general counsel of the
Norfolk & Western Railway, conceiv-
ed the Fund and worked out its de-
tails at a meeting’ in Lexington last
fall. The Council—a body of 44 alum-
ni volunteers from across the country
who are providing leadership for the
University’s program of encouraging
alumni and friends to include Wash-
ington and Lee in their long-range
financial planning—presented its rec-
ommendations to the University
Board of Trustees. The Board au-
thorized establishment of the Fund,
and the University has engaged Unit-
ed Virginia Bank of Richmond, an
institution with an outstanding rec-
ord of success in the management of
investments, to act as trustee of the
Fund.

“We are happy to announce es-
tablishment of the Fund,’ Burks
said. “It meets a long-standing ob-
jective. The Fund increases the Uni-
versity’s ability to serve its friends
who desire assistance in arranging

March 1974

 

 

F p

operation,

help W&L’s future needs

 

Estate Planning Council Chairman Martin P. Burks and Deferred Giving Director
Edward O. (Ned) Henneman discuss the establishment of the Washington and Lee

Pooled Income Fund.

their financial future to the _ best
advantage and who at the same time
wish to help secure the financial fu-
ture of Washington and Lee.”

How does the Washington and
Lee Pooled Income Fund work? Why
is it a good method of making a
gift to Washington and Lee? Why
did the University establish the
Fund?

Edward O. Henneman, associate
director of development and director
of deferred giving at W&L and a
specialist in estate planning, an-
swered these questions.

“The pooled income fund,” he
said, “is a very simple way for an
alumnus or friend of Washington
and Lee to invest in the University’s
future without sacrificing his own

or his family’s need for income.
By contributing to Washington and
Lee through the Fund, the donor
may obtain professional manage-
ment and investment of the donated
funds, provide a current income for
himself or his family, make a gift of
capital to the University to take ef-
fect in the future, and often obtain
significant savings in taxes.”

All gifts made to the University
through the Fund are received by
the trustee, the United Virginia Bank,
which mingles them and invests them
in a common pool. This procedure
enables each donor to secure effici-
ency and economy in investment and
management which should mean a
higher return to him and a greater
potential for growth in the value of

7

 

 

Pooled Income Fund

 

the donated property.

The donor, or if he prefers an-
other person or other persons desig-
nated by him at the time of his gift,
receives a proportionate share of the
income earned by the Fund each year.

Upon the death of the donor or
the death of his designated bene-
ficiaries, the principal amount repre-
sented by the donor’s ‘gift is with-
drawn from the Fund and becomes
the property of Washington and Lee.
Again, depending on the investment
performance of the _ Fund, _ this
amount can be of far greater value
than the original gift. When the
property is transferred to the Uni-
versity by the trustee, the assets may
be used in the discretion of the
Board of Trustees to meet needs that
seem most pressing at the time, add-
ed to endowment, or applied to a
specific purpose stipulated by the
donor at the time of the gift, such as
a named scholarship fund, faculty
salaries, or a named memorial gift.

The advantages to the University
of being able to anticipate the re-
ceipt of the proceeds of gifts made
through the Pooled Income Fund
are obvious. The University receives
a large measure of financial security,
carrying with it assurance that it
can maintain its excellence, to say
nothing of enabling it to meet ever
increasing costs and new and chal-
lenging needs for additional endow-
ment and spendable capital funds.

Many alumni are helping to meet
these needs through outright gifts of
capital for development program ob-
jectives and through annual giving
for current operations. But many
other alumni who want to take part
in this work of building a greater

8

Washington and Lee feel they are
unable to reduce their present in-
comes because of family or other
responsibilities. Some others, look-
ing ahead to retirement, fear the
consequences of parting now with a
substantial amount of capital. ‘The
Washington and Lee Pooled Income
Fund provides a means by which such
donors can support the University
and do so to a far greater extent
than they may have thought pos-
sible. Iwo examples illustrate how
this can work under present tax
laws:

EXAMPLE 1

An alumnus, aged 63, wishes to
create a scholarship fund of $80,000.
He owns stock with a value of $80,-
000 that cost him $40,000 when ac-
quired some years ago. His top in-

come tax brackets average 40%, and
his present dividend income on the
stock is $1,600 annually. He gives the
stock to Washington and Lee for in-
clusion in the pooled income fund
and directs that the income earned
by his gift be paid to him until his
death at which time the capital will
pass to Washington and Lee to form
the scholarship fund.

The donor may deduct from his
income tax as a charitable contribu-
tion the value of the gift interest
given to Washington and Lee. In this
case the deduction would amount to
$39,236. In the donor’s income tax
bracket, this gives him a tax saving
of $15,694, thus reducing the cost to
him of his gift to $64,306. In addi-
tion, no capital gains tax is payable
on the appreciation in value of the
donated stock. The saving of this

 

Edward O. (Ned) Henneman,
associate director of development
and director of deferred giving at
WkL, is a native of New York
City, whose parents now live in
Dillwyn, Va. He is a soft-spoken
man of puckish humor, and a con-
scientious lawyer, a specialist in
the legal intricacies of taxation,
trusts, estates, and the like.

He came to W&L in 1972 from
New York, where he was an associ-
ate in the law firm of Winthrop,
Stimson, Putnam & Roberts for
nearly eight years. He was prev-
iously associated for two and a half
years with the New York law firm
of Kelley Drye Newhall Maginnes

 

Ned Henneman, Ready to Serve You

& Warren, which he joined in
1962 after receiving his J. D. degree
from Harvard Law School. He earn-
ed his B.A. degree in English from
Yale University in 1959.

Since coming to Washington
and Lee, he has worked closely
with the Estate Planning Council
in developing a wide range of
programs designed to provide tax-
saving methods of giving to the
University, including pooled-in-
come and other trust and estate
arrangements.

He is married to the former
Penelope Case, a graduate of Smith
College, and they have one daugh-
ter and two sons.

 

 

WeL

 

7

+ gestvsese

 

see

a

tees

vee

opereks

 

 

 

7
a -

pe sesees

 

77

been eee reece tenes

Lo

 

 

 

 

An Interview

 

Holton is off to new Washington job,
grateful for his W&L experience

In January, Linwood Holton, Jr.,
44, completed a four-year term as Gov-
ernor of Virginia. In February, Pres:-
dent Nixon appointed him to the post
of Assistant Secretary of State for Con-
gressional Affairs, making him the State
Department’s chief liaison with Congress
policy.
Shortly before the public announcement
of his appointment, Holton talked with
the editors of W&L at his home in Roa-
noke on a wide range of subjects. The

on matters affecting foreign

following article was condensed from
that two-hour conversation.

How does he view the transition from
chief executive of an important state to
an important administrative post in
Washington?

He sees it as a thrilling and challeng-
ing opportunity to enter a new dimen-
sion of public service—“to move to the
very top of the foreign policy decision-
making process at a most important time
in history, a time when we really, for
once, have a true opportunity for last-
ing peace.” He particularly looks for-
ward to working with Secretary of State
Henry A. Kissinger, who he believes is
“unique in history” because of his back-
ground, temperament, training, and tal-
ent—a man who is “inherently more
aware than the average person of the
value of freedom in a peaceful situa-

tion.” He believes Dr. Kissinger is the
only Secretary of State who “has had the
formal training directed specifically tow-
ard the issue: How do you maintain

peace in this kind of world?”

Does he as a member of a Republican

administration expect difficulties in
working with a Democratic Congress?
Although he is a strong advocate of

the two-party system as the most ef-

10

fective sytsem of electing the best-quali-
fied people to public office, he believes
that, once elections are over, elected of-
ficials can be persuaded to work for the
common good. “It is very difficult, un-
derstandably, to convince people who
have responsibilities to varying constitu-
encies across the nation of a common
course, but I did it on a much smaller
General As-
sembly, and I was able to surmount

scale with the Virginia

any obstacle that might have existed be-
.. I think the
same approach can be effective with the

cause of party differences. .

U. S. Congress in support of foreign pol-
icy positions that will be developed.”

Does he have any misgivings about
the course our foreign policy has been
taking?

“No. I am not a foreign policy spec-
ialist. That’s not what I am being asked
to do for the State Department. I am a
politician. I am being asked to handle
politics, really.”

What will be his approach to the job?

He will adhere to the principles of
checks and balances inherent in the Con-
stitution. ‘““[The Congress was set up to
provide a check on proposals of the exe-
cutive branch of government, and the
executive has a similar responsibility. So
my job will be to reconcile the views of
people who have, inherently and con-
stitutionally, a responsibility to pick
apart the other’s position if he can. If
the executive proposes something that
has holes in it, then it is the job of Con-
gress to find that out. In my role as a
liaison man between a part of the exe-
cutive branch and the Congress, I will
either show Congress that we don’t have
holes in the proposals, or if they show
us the proposals do have holes, take them

back to the executive branch and elimi-
nate the holes.”

Did he enjoy being Governor of
Virginia?

“Yes, I enjoyed the responsibilities
of it and the challenges of it. My family
and I were able actually to enjoy being
there as well as to enjoy the judgment
making responsibility, which of course
is thrilling in itself.”

What was the greatest satisfaction of
the job?

“You can’t pick out a superlative in
a job like that except in a very abstract
way. The greatest satisfactions came from
being in a position to make decisions in
many areas that were helpful to people
as a matter of government service.” He
cited as examples the moves during his
administration to clean up the state’s
rivers and the vastly improved programs

of care and treatment of the aging. But |

in the broad range of service that Vir-
ginia’s government provides, there are
many sources of satisfaction in being
Governor, and “then you have to realize
what a great job it is, what a challeng-
ing job it is, and what an inspiring job
it is.”

What about disappointments?
word that
doesn’t fit into my thinking because I

“Disappointment is a

am not a pessimist. I think that the
things you fail to get done are really
postponements.” He mentioned delays
in combining some of the state’s trans-
portation resources into a department
of transportation, the failure of the Gen-
eral Assembly to increase the individual
income tax to 6 per cent, and continu-
ing problems in the field of corrections.
“It is important that people recognize

WeL

a tne

 

Linwood Holton is not getting suited up for Washington here; he is being fitted
for his attire for the recent inauguration of his successor, Gov. Mills Godwin.

March 1974

the need to emphasize corrections be-
cause more than 95 per cent of all the
prisoners we send into the penal system
get out and return to society. ... We
must use the period when inmates are in
prison to make a maximum effort to see
that they return to society in condition
to be self-supporting citizens and not
menaces to their fellow citizens.”

Was being Governor the fulfillment
of a personal ambition?

“Yes, it was. I go back to childhood
on that ambition.” As a child he distri-
buted leaflets for a councilman in his
hometown of Big Stone Gap, and he
recalls his fascination with Presidential
elections. His first real shock in politics
was when the Literary Digest prediction
was upset in the Presidential election of
1936. His interest was reinforced while
he was a student at Washington and
Lee, where he met Gov. Colgate Darden,
who spoke at a University convocation,
and to whom he was introduced by Dr.
Francis P. Gaines. “I remember how
impressed I was at meeting the Governor
of Virginia, a man whom I came to ad-
mire very, very strongly. Holton has re-
marked frequently that every Virginia
Governor “has to have a ‘Governor’ of
his own,” an elder statesman whom he
can consult on tough political and pro-
cedural problems. “It is an interesting
little twist—after I became Governor, I
saw Colgate Darden as my ‘Governor.’ It
goes back to that spot just outside the
Lee Dormitory where I met him in 1942.”

What about his future political am-
bitions?

“Well, I don’t think anybody who
has ever run for an elective office can
ever say that he has gotten it all out of

’

his system.” He noted that Sen. Harry

1]

“Washington and Lee is and always
has been an outstanding institution—
outstanding from the standpoint

of faculty and students... .”

F. Byrd Jr. is now a “very popular in-
dependent,” who he wishes, if he stands
for re-election in 1976, could run as eith-
er a Republican or a Democrat. As it is
now, Holton said, Sen. Byrd has “no re-
sponsibility to a party or even to the
two-party system in Virginia... And I
must say that is something that gives
me pause and makes me think about the
future of that position.” He noted that
the other Senate seat is held by a mem-
ber of his own Republican party, Sen.
William Scott, and “I would be hesitant
to suggest at this time that I might
want to disloge him from the nomina-
tion. That pretty well eliminates poten-
tials for elective office at this time, but
again I emphasize now—these things are
continually changing—that I just can’t
rule myself out of another effort at elec-
tive office at some time in the future.”

What is his attitude now toward Vir-
ginia’s ban on a Governor succeeding
himself?

He felt upon going to Richmond
that the ban should be reconsidered, but
changed his mind because he saw that
the one-term limit gives the Governor
great independence in decision-making.
“That comes,” he said, “from being able
to say and having it understood that the
Governor has no political motive in
what he is doing because he can’t run
again.” He quoted Colgate Darden in
this connection: “This is not a_ place
where you finish things; this is where
you begin things.” And, he went on, “it
does make your philosophical attitude
toward the job a whole lot easier if you
recognize that that is how it is.”

Has the Republican party settled in
in Virginia?
He believes that the party has be-

12

 

The Governor was all smiles after his election in 1969.

come a “permanent force in Virginia’s
political scene,” pointing to the Republi-
cans’ hold on seven out of 10 seats in
Congress and one of the U. S. Senate
seats, while the Democrats have none in
the Senate. ““The Republicans are more
palatable from a national standpoint to
the average voter in Virginia than the
national Democrats.’”’ He noted his own
election, the first Republican Governor
in modern times, and the election in
1973 of Governor Mills Godwin, running

as a Republican. He conceded that it is
more difficult for Republicans to break
into the winning ranks in the General
Assembly because of the popularity of
many Democratic incumbents whom the
voters know to be “not of the philosophy
of the national Democratic party.” And
he is confident that the newly elected
Republican Lieutenant Governor, John
Dalton, will be elected Governor in 1977
and “you will gradually see a building
in the General Assembly of Republican

Wee

 

feller will run for Pre
will he be a

 

a
ia

iarion
oe

a
OO

:

a

a
i

. © a
eo -

-
-

a

a

 

 

 

 

tion. She also said the trend could lead
to a more equal sharing by men and
women of the whole range of family
responsibilities. But she conceded that
there are many unanswered questions
ahead and concluded: “I wonder how it
will all turn out.” Much will depend,
she said, on the response of today’s young
men to the increasing competition of
women in the marketplace.

Her husband, Clifton H. Kreps, Jr.,
is professor of banking at the University
of North Carolina. She herself is a di-
rector of the New York Stock Exchange,
Educational Testing Service, the National
Merit Scholarship Corp., the J. C. Penney
Co., and several other professional and
public-service organizations.

‘The public affairs lectures at W&L
are made possible by an endowment
created by alumni of the School of Com-
merce, Economics, and Politics.

 

Black Culture Week

 

A worship service, lectures by out-
standing visiting speakers, a musical
program, a documentary film, and a
formal dance were highlights of the third
annual “Black Culture Week” at W&L
in February.

The week-long series of events is
sponsored by the University through the
Student Association for Black Unity and
is designed to promote mutual under-
standing and to provide insights into the
experience of black Americans.

Theodore E. Thornton, Sr., director
of personnel for the city of Richmond,
delivered the annual Leslie D. Smith
Memorial Lecture. Thornton was exe-
cutive director of Richmond’s Human
Relations Commission before assuming
his present position. Smith, for whom
the lecture is named, was the first black

16

 

Tilia

Ne ned eae

im

; ig 14

Virginia Union University Choir in “Black Culture Week” concert.

graduate of W&L. He received his law
degree in 1969 and died a year later in
Washington, D. C., where he was an
attorney for the U. S. Justice Depart-
ment.

Dr. Wendell P. Russell, president of
Virginia State College in Petersburg, de-
livered the other principal lecture of
the week. Dr. Russell is a former dean
of students and dean of the college at
Virginia Union University.

The week began with a black worship
service conducted by the Rev. Lutrelle
Rainey, pastor of Lexington’s First Bap-
tist Church and an assistant dean of
students at W&L.

The nationally known Virginia
Union University Choir, under the di-
rection of Dr. Odell Hobbs, presented a
concert in Lee Chapel. The choir’s re-
pertoire ranges from 17th-century baro-
que to 20th-century gospel music.

The highly regarded documentary,
King: Montgomery to Memphis, chronic-
ling the life and death of Martin Luth-
er King, was shown twice in Reid Hall.

‘The week concluded on Friday with
the annual Black Ball, an invitational
black-tie event, sponsored by the Stu-

dent Association for Black Unity.

 

Gift to Print Shop

 

The Newport News Daily Press Inc.,
publishers of the Newport News (Va.)
Press and Times-Herald, has made a
major donation of typesetting equip-
ment to the University’s Journalism
Laboratory Press.

Included in the gift were two com-
plete Linotypes, the machines used to
set text; a Ludlow headline-setting ma-
chine with 88 fonts of type; another ma-
chine for making column rules and deco-
rative borders; and a substantial inven-
tory of spare and replacement parts for
much of the print shop’s newly acquir-
ed and old machinery.

The donation by the Newport News
newspapers represents more than $100,-
000 in value at new replacement costs.
The papers agreed to give the machin-
ery to the W&L print shop when the
Press and Times-Herald converted from
“hot type” (in which molten lead is used
to cast single lines of type) to photo-
graphic ‘“‘cold type” composition.

The Washington and Lee press uses
hot type with only slight exceptions for
the alumni magazine; the campus news-

WeL

 

 

 

hep or
ah

 

 

 

 

 

by Robert S. Keefe

Fancy Dress is back...
and what a ball!

It was almost like olden days—
light years ago, back all the way to
the 1930s, when Fancy Dress was
king (‘the outstanding collegiate
social event in the South,’ The New
York Times has said).

The students decorated the en-

tire Evans Hall-Student Center
complex in minute detail, even
with a fountain and street signs—
and it really did look like the
French Quarter.

And 1,700 of them came, more
by far than to any of the old-time
Fancy Dresses. Some were in cos-
ture, but mostly in tuxes or suits,
dates in evening gowns, which after
all are costumes of a sort to college
students these days. If there had
been a prize, though, it would

18

 

 

   

Top: Celebrants

painted Old George blue. Left: That’s Prof. and Mrs. B. S. Stephenson

 

    

             

= Nae hp ;

2 %

| +f *
<The

  

oh

behind that mask and fan. Above: It was a relaxed throng of students that gathered

at Zollman’s for Fancy Dress preliminaries.

Opposite Page Top: More open-space fun at Zollman’s. Cheek-to-cheek dancing was
indeed back. A Fancy Dresser seems to say, “How sweet it is!” Opposite Below: Evans
Hall was wall-to-wall people as the band played on.

certainly have been won by Prof.

B. S. Stephenson, ’42 of the German
department and his wife. He went
in a clown’s suit with a gorilla

head, and the Swiss-born Mrs.
Stephenson went as an exotic
Spanish princess.

The word had spread that it
was really going to be a pheno-
menal weekend; there were stu-
dents from as far away as Southern
Methodist University in Texas, and
plenty from the University of Vir-
ginia, as there always were.

A phenomenal weekend it was.
There were a hundred kegs of
beer—18,000 glasses of it, for the
statistically minded. (One part of

 

a cupful ended up being poured on
President Huntley’s head by a date
who didn’t know, at the time,

who he was. He turned to her,
though, and said: “That happened
the last time I wore tails too—in
1948.’’)

There were three bands—a hard-
rock soul band, to be sure, but a
great Dixieland group and a night-
club trio as well, each playing
in a different part of the complex.

And when it was over, they had
a difficult time of it getting every-
body to go home. The students
themselves were a little surprised at
how well it went, at whata...
well, ball they had.

The old-fashioned Fancy Dress
Ball was the idea of the Student

WeL

eet, Os
See

= =e
iret
ae

*

=

aes

me,

sie

ates |
os

Pe

i
a

"

7 et ;

a oo
re

 

 

 

Spring sports schedule

VARSITY LACROSSE SCHEDULE

MAR. 9—MORGAN ST. 2 p.m. ...... Home
Mar. 16—Mt. Washington 2p.m. .There

   

 

BEB. BETO 2 AT. checcicccccescccccectacnse There
MAR. 30—DENISON 2p.m. .......0...... Home
April 9—Princeton 3 p.m. ........

April 11—C. W. Post 3 p.m. .............. There
April 183—Duke 2 p.m, oe ee eeeeee There
APR. 17—N. C. 3 p.m. Home
April 20—Virginia 1:30 p.m. ............. There
April 283—W&M 3 Pim. oe eeeeeteees There
APR. 27—TOWSON 2 . sc wa aa ao

APR. 30—ROANOKE 3 p.m. ..............
MAY a Cotte”

 

 

m Home
MAY ¢ Fem 3p Home
MAY 11—CORTLAND a PWR oui. Home

TRACK SCHEDULE

Mar. 21—Madison 3p.m. ..Harrisonburg
MAR. 23—FROSTBURG 3 p.m. ........ Home
MAR. 26—SHEPHERD 3 p.m. ........... Home
MAR. 29—V.M.I. 2:30 p.m. .................. Home

April 9—Wofford 3 p.m. eens eee
April 11—Gardner-Webb 3p

asda ididaiciamiencs Boiling pind, N.C.
APR. 16—LYNCHBURG,

IND. STATE 3: 30 p.m. Home
April 20—V.C.A.A. oo... Petersburg, Va.
APR. 23—ROANOKE 3 ORR caine Home
APR. 26—E. MENNONITE 3p.m. Home
April 30—Bridgewater 3:30 p.m.

sivhababbailewgaeaibiis Bridgewater, Va.

VARSITY TENNIS SCHEDULE

MAR. 11—HAVERFORD 2 p.m. ....... Home
MAR. 15—MORRIS HAR. 2 p.m. ....Home

Mar. 21—Duke 2 p.m. ......... Durham, N.C.
MAR. 26—V.M.I. 2 p.m. occ Home
MAR. 28—SHEPHERD 2 p.m. .....: ...FLome
APR. 6—TOWSON 2p.m. .........c0 Home

April 8—Emory 2:15 p.m. ..Atlanta, Ga.
April 9—Florida 2p.m. Gainesville, Fla.

April 10—Eckerd 2 p.m, ........ St. Pete, Fla.
April 11—So. Fla. 9 a.m. ........ Tampa, Fla.
April 11—St. Leo 2 p.m. ........ St. Leo, Fla.

April 16—V.P.I. 2:30 p.m. ........ Blacksburg
April 17—W&M 3:15 p.m. ....Williamsburg
APR. 18—SUNY-PLATTS. 2p.m. Home
APR. 19—HAMPTON I. 2 p.m. ...... Home
BE ZR. PT, svicnsenteeann Home
April 22—Virginia 10 a.m. ........ Homestead
April 23—Bridgewater 1 p.m. Bridgewater
April 24—Hamp. oe 2D. There

April 26-28—V.C.A.A. ............ Harrisonburg
APR. 20 MADISON BOM. cecdonen Home
May 1—Roanoke 2 p.m. ........ Salem, Va.

May 3-4—Va. State Tournament

MAY 7—RAND.-MACON 2 p.m. ....Home
May 9—Emory & Henry 2p.m. Emory
May 11—Navy 2p.m. ....... Annapolis, Md.

VARSITY BASEBALL SCHEDULE

 

MAR. 15—W.VA.I.T. oy OOD. cccesiee Home
MAR. 18—W&M 3 p Home
Mar. 26 —Apereutics m2) 1 p.m.

slide natin aint Pwr News, Va.

Mar. 25—OD (2) 1 p.m. ........ Norfolk, Va.
MAR. 98 HAMPDEN-S SYDNEY
3 p.m. Home

 

April 7-8—St. Augustine 2 p.m. ..Raleigh
April 9—N.C. State 2p.m. ou... Raleigh
April 10—Campbell 3 p.m. pee Ck. N. C.
April 11—Pembroke 3 p.m

April 16—V.M.I. 3 p.m. on. eee V.M
April 18—Madison 2:30 p.m.
Harrisonburg, Va.
APR. 20—LYNCHBURG BAPTIST
COLL. 2 p.m. Home
April at eee, 2:30 p.m.
hee aN Hampden-Sydney, Va.
April 27—V.C.A.A, wu. Lynchburg, Va.
APR. 30—MADISON 2:30 p.m. .......... Home
MAY 6é_BRIDGEWATER. (2) 1 p.m.

Home
May 9—Lynchburg Baptist
SR Rolie ee Lynchburg, Va.

 

 

GOLF SCHEDULE
MAR. 25—BRIDGEWATER,

 

DF Pee IIAe © eco cocciceasceoie Home
April 12-13—State Intercollegiate

Golf Tourna. ........ Hot Springs
APR. eee ee -SYDNEY ....... Home
APR. 19—V.M.I., W&M,

ROANOKE Home
April 21-22—V.C.A.A. we Marion, Va.
April 29—Madison Coll. wee There
MAY 2—VA. COMMONWEALTH Home
May 6—Old Dominion. ..............0...... Away

NOTE: A roundup of W&L’s winter sports, including the eighth straight winning basketball season, will appear in the next

issue of the magazine.

 

Chapter Correspondents

Appalachian—Jimmy D. Bowie, ’56, 714 Arl-
ington Avenue, Bristol, Va. 24201
Arkansas—Edward 0D. Briscoe, Jr., ‘59, 17
Edgehill, Little Rock, Ark, 72207
Atlanta—J. D. Humphries, III, ’°66, 1045 Hurt
Building, Atlanta, Ga. 30303
Augusta- Rockingham—William B. Gunn, °’42,
Box 668, Harrisonburg, Va. 22801
Baltimore—Randy H. Lee, ’69, 119-E. Ver-
sailles Circle, Towson, Maryland 21204 .
68, 15

Birmingham—William E. Smith, Jr.,
Norman Drive, Birmingham, Ala. 35213

Charleston—Louie A, Paterno, Jr., ’65, 1401
Somerlayton Road, Charleston, W. Va. 25314
Charlotte—Harry J. Grim, ’52, 2522 Sherwood
Avenue, Charlotte, N.C. 28207
Chattanooga—Wesley G. Brown, ‘51, Penn
Mutual Life Ins. Co., Lobby Maclellan
Bldg., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—William H. Hillier, ’38, 321 West
Lincoln Avenue, Wheaton, Tll. 60187
Cleveland—Peter M. Weimer ’63, 10813 Music
Street, Newbury, Ohio 44065
Cumberland Valley—Albert A. Radcliffe, ’37,
145 Fairview Ave., Frederick, Md. 21701
Danville—Judge F. Nelson Light, ’52, Route
No. 2, Box 49-A, Chatham, Va. 24531
Florida West Coast—George W. Harvey, Jr.,
’°63, WFLA-TV, 905 Jackson Street, Tampa,
Fla. 33601

Gulf Stream—A. J. Barranco, ’64, Suite 1004
Concord Bldg., 66 West Flagler St., Miami,
Fla. 33130

Houston—William B. Ogilvie, Jr., ’64, 7519
Del Monte, Houston, Texas 77042

Jacksonville—John G. McGiffin, III, ’63, 4114
McGirts Blvd., Jacksonville, Fla. 32201

20

Kansas City—William N. Leedy, ’49, 814
Westover Road, Kansas City, Mo. 64113
Louisville—John C. Norman Jr., ’64, 118
Travois Road, Louisville, Kentucky 40207
Lynchburg—Robert C. Wood III, ’62, 4720
nee Road, Lynchburg, Virginia

Mid-South—Jerome Turner, '64, 325 N. Rose
Road, Memphis. Tenn. 7

Mobile—Harvey E. Jones, Jr., '64, 204 Walsh-
wood, Mobile, Ala. 36604

Montgomery—Joe F. Bear, '33, 21384 Rose-
mont Drive, Montgomery. Ala. 36111

New England—John P. Mello, ’72, 37 Brook-
ley Road, Boston, Mass. 02130

New Orleans—Gus A. Fritchie, Jr., ’50, P.O.
Box 729, Slidell, La. 70258

New River-Greenbrier—Thomas A. Myles, '16,
Drawer 60, Fayetteville, W. Va. 25840

New York—James O. Mathews, ’70, 1st Nat’l
ae Bk., 399 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

Norfolk—Peter A. Agelasto, III, ’62, 1300
United Va. Bk. Bldg., Norfolk, Va. 23510
North Texas—David Carothers, ‘61, 5532 Park
Lane, Dallas, Texas 75220

Northern California—Paul R., Speckman, Jr.,
57, 1568 Lilac Lane, Mountain View, Cali-
fornia 94040

Northern Louisiana—M. Alton Evans, Jr., ’63,
P.O. Box 639, Shreveport, La. 71102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Hugh S. Glick-

stein, ‘53, 2138 Hollywood Blvd., Holly-
wood, Fla. 33020
Palmetto—William M. Bowen, ’63, Dowling.

Dowling, Sanders and Dukes, Box 1027,
Beaufort, S.C. 29902

Peninsula—Dr. B. Voss Neal, ’51, 321 Main
Street, Newport News, Va. 23601

Pensacola—Robert D. Hart, Jr., '63, 3985
Piedmont Road, Pensacola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia—Theodore G. Rich, Jr., '58, 226
W. Rittenhouse Square No. 2810, Philadel-
phia, Pa. 19103

Piedmont—Walter Hannah, saul oo Laurinda
Drive, Greensboro, N. C.

Richmond—Samuel C. Sunes oe 100 Charn-
wood Road, Richmond, Va. 23229

Roanoke—William §S. Hubard, '50, Shenan-
doah Life Ins. Co., Roanoke, Va. 24010

Bases B. Winfree, Tit, °69, P.O.
Box 948, Lexington, Va. 24 4450

San Antonio—Allan G. Paterson, ’64, 324
Ridgemont, San Antonio, Texas 78209

St. Louis—Andrew W. Baur, ’°67, 20 Foxboro,
St. Louis, Mo. 63124

South Coens Piedmont—Alvin F. Fleish-
man, ‘41, P.O. Drawer 4106, Station B.
Anderson, S. Cc. 29621

Southern California—Frank A. McCormick,
°b8, Box 475, Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio—Stanley Hooker, Jr., '39, 1185
Beverly Hills Drive, Cincinnati, Ohio | 45226

Tulsa—Neal McNeill, ’50, 3724 South Florence,
Tulsa, Okla. 74105

Upper Potomac—Albert D. Darby, ’°43, 507

mberland Street, Cumberland, Md. "21502

Washington—Robert J. Frost, Jr. "68, 8402
Hartford Ave., Silver Springs, Md. 20910

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, ’62, 3010
Ventura, Abilene, Texas 79605

Wilmington—S. Maynard Turk, ’52, Box 3958,
Greenville, Wilmington, Delaware 19807

Wel

 

es es

EEE SC

 

Chapter News

 

Dr. Thomas is the recipient

of the 1974 Lynchburg award

LYNCHBURG. The coveted Lynchburg
Citation went this year to Dr. John New-
ton Thomas, a Trustee of W&L since
1938 and rector of the Board since 1970.
The presentation was made at a dinner
meeting of the chapter on Feb. 22 at
the Holiday Inn, South.

The citation honors an alumnus for
outstanding service and devotion to the
University and is by tradition the high-
est distinction awarded by a W&L alum-
ni chapter. The citation presented to Dr.
Thomas said: “The aura of his life and
personality reaches out to all who come
within his sphere of influence with a
warmth and love that is, at once, an
extension of his own spirit and that of
the Christ he serves with complete devo-
tion.”

ai
iG
Ht f

Fhe gp sagt pO 40%
beh re i css

rm he |

Dr. Thomas retired in 1972 as pro-
fessor of systematic theology at Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, after
32 years on its faculty, including seven
years as dean of the graduate school. He
is a 1924 graduate of W&L.

Before the presentation, Dr. Thomas
reported on the financial status of the
University and appealed for continued
strong support by alumni. Robert C.
Wood, III, °62, chapter president, in-
troduced the guests including two Trus-
tees and their wives, Mr. and Mrs. Syd-
ney Lewis of Richmond and Mr. and
Mrs. Gordon Leggett of Lynchburg, and
University

guests, President and Mrs.
Robert E. R. Huntley, Prof. Rupert Lat-
ture, Mr. and Mrs. Frank Parsons, Mr.
and Mrs. James Whitehead, Mr. and

 

Mrs. William D. McHenry, President Huntley, and Robert C. Wood, III, ’62, applaud
as Dr. Thomas acknowledges receipt of the Lynchburg Citation.

March 1974

Mrs. William D. McHenry, Mr. and
Mrs. W. C. Washburn, and Robert S.
Keefe. Dr. Sidney Coulling, professor of
English, who was scheduled to speak
could not be present because of the
death of his mother. Besides Dr. Tho-
mas, President Huntley and McHenry
made remarks.

RICHMOND. W&L President Huntley
and Sweet Briar President Harold B.
Whiteman were guests of honor at a
cocktail-buffet on Feb. 24
jointly by the W&L alumni chapter and

sponsored

Alumnae
Club at the Holiday Inn on Robin Hood
Road. Both presidents discussed some of

the Richmond Sweet Briar

the problems of independent higher

education in Virginia, specifically as
they relate to their respective institu-

tions. After their talks, they answered

questions. Sam C. Dudley, ’58, presi-
dent of the W&L chapter, introduced
the presidents. Mrs. John McDonald,

president of the Sweet Briar club, was
co-chairman with Dudley in arranging
the reception and buffet.

NEW ENGLAND. Night”
was the theme of a dinner-dance held
by the New England chapter on Feb. 2
at the Boston Center for Adult Educa-
tion. The event was arranged jointly by
the local alumni groups of W&L, Sweet
Hollins, Randolph-Macon, and
Mary Washington, with the University
of Virginia club in Boston as the chief
sponsor. Among the W&L alumni who
braved a heavy snowfall to attend were
Fred Bent, ’66L, Chip Chamberlin, ’60,
John Mynttinen, ’66, Rob Todd, ’60,
and their wives. ‘hose who attended ex-
pressed the hope that the cooperative
meeting will result in similar annual
events in the future.

“Virginia

Briar,

9]

_

Class
Notes

1912

Rurus OWEN, Jr., and his wife retired in
1965 to Latta, S. C. His Virginia auto li-
cense is nailed to a tree in his yard as a
welcome to all Washington and Lee friends.
He and Mrs. Owens were host to their chil-
dren and grandchildren, a total of 21, this
past Christmas.

FRANCIS J. HEAZEL, attorney and financial
director of the Asheville, N. C., Junior Lea-
gue since 1959, has been named an honor-
ary member of the League. Heazel is the
first male honorary member of the organi-
zation. Retiring after 15 years of service,
Heazel has advised the League on many
legal matters including redrawing of its
original charter in 1963. His most recent
project is the incorporation of Mountain
Learning Disabilities Camp. He has been an
active participant in numerous civic and
professional organizations and for 21 years
served as treasurer of the Knights of Colum-
bus. Heazel has also been active in the
Chamber of Commerce, the Asheville Indus-
trial Council, and has been connected with
St. Joseph’s Hospital since the 1930s. Hea-
zel has served as a director, treasurer, and
president of more than eight businesses and
is still director of Forman Realty Corp.,
Bismarck Hotel Corp. and American Furni-
ture Mart Corp., all in Chicago, IIl.

1923

S. SAUNDERS GUERRANT, JR., of Roanoke was
recently re-elected president of The 1900
Club. Members of the club are men born
in 1900.

i925

Dr. ANDREW T. Roy retired in November,
1972, from Chung Chi College of the Chin-
ese University of Hong Kong. Since then
he has traveled and done research in the
Hoover Institution of Stanford. He and
Mrs. Roy now live in Haverton, Pa.

1926

Dr. C. W. Lowry retired in April, 1973, but
has embarked on a_ research project on
moral attitudes and trends. He spent three
months at Oxford University in the course
of this research.

Having retired some years ago as State Re-
feree, New York Workmen’s Compensation,

22

 

G. CARLTON WALTERS is now living in Mara-
thon Shores, Fla., and loving it.

1929

Dr. Irwin T. SANDERS gave the annual Uni-
versity Lecture at Boston University in De-
cember, 1973. The lecture is given by a se-
lected faculty member. His topic was “The
Search for Community in a Complex Soc-
iety.” |

THomas P. WricuT retired in July, 1973,
from the English faculty of VPI after 15
years of service.

1930

W. BestoR BROWN, owner and operator of
The Book-Keepers, Inc., in Birmingham,
Ala., has received the Hope Chest Award
of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society
through his Birmingham chapter. At the
meeting of the society in January, Brown
was also presented several certificates of ap-
preciation. He was chairman of the busi-
ness and finance fund raising committee
and is also a trustee of the Birmingham
chapter. The award is given annually by the
National Multiple Sclerosis Society for out-
standing volunteer work.

Dr. STANLEY F. HAMPTON attended a meet-
ing of the International Association of
Allergy in Tokyo. While there he traveled
in the Far East for two months. Dr. Hamp-
ton practices in St. Louis, Mo.

1932

After 39 years of service to the State of
North Carolina, including 10 years as teach-
er and coach, CHARLES C. Love has retired
from the Employment Security Commission.

Dr. I. F. Hupson has been elected mayor of
the City of Stamford, Tex.

1934

NeiL C, PAscor, after 36 years of service, ex-
pects to retire as senior vice president of
Selected Risks Insurance Co. in November,

1974.
1935

Having retired three years ago from E. I.
duPont after over 31 years of service,
GEORGE E. SHORT now does some substitute
school teaching in Pomton Lakes, N. Y. He
and his wife keep active by playing a lot of
golf.

W. B. Brown, ’30

J. S. Bruce, ’37

NorMAN S. FitzHuGH, JRr., has merged his
C.P.A. firm in Charleston, W. Va., with the
international accounting firm of Ernst and
Ernst. He expects to retire and establish a
business consulting office.

1936

WILLIAM S. JOHNSON retired in July, 1973,
after 33 years of service with the Tennessee
Valley Authority.

G. F. PAINTER is employed as a manage-
ment analyst by the West Virginia Depart-
ment of Employment Security. He and his
wife, Ruth, live in Charleston.

1937

CHARLES A. BUTTERWORTH, JR., is a fiscal and
securities analyst in the Revenue and
Bond Development Office of the Florida
Department of Transportation.

Cow. Riper, former associate editor of the
News and Courier, recently became associ-
ate editor of the Evening Post in Charles-
ton, 8...

After more than 38 years of service, GIVEN
W. CLEEK has retired from the National
Bureau of Standards.

JAMes S. Bruce has been elected an as-
sistant vice president of Eastman Kodak
Co. He was earlier named assistant direc-
tor of corporate relations. Bruce began his
career with Eastman Kodak in 1939 as an
engineer in the paper service division of
Kodak Park and was appointed assistant
superintendent of that division in 1952.
He moved to the Kodak office in 1956 as as-
sistant director of training and in 1962 be-
came director of business and technical per-
sonnel. He is a member of the American
Institute of Chemical Engineers, the Soc-
iety of Motion Picture and Television En-
gineers, the Society of Photographic Scien-
tists and Engineers, and the Rochester En-
gineering Society.

1938

CHARLES W. WILKINSON has been elected
Newport News, Va., branch counsel for
Lawyers Title Insurance Corp. Lawyers Title
with headquarters in Richmond, Va., is af-
filiated with the Richmond Corp., a financial
services organization.

1939

CoL. WILBERT T. SHAFER, since retirement in

WeL

At a joint meeting of We&L
alumni and Sweet Briar alumnae

at Richmond were Sweet Briar
President Harold B. Whiteman, Mrs.
John McDonald, Sweet Briar club
president,

Robert Huntley, and Samuel C.
Dudley, 58, W&L chapter president.

1962 from the U. S. Marine Corps, has been
with the Los Angeles County Probation
Department as administrative court assistant.
He and his wife, Rosemary, have five chil-
dren; they live in Oceanside, Calif.

194]

CHARLES LANDRUM, JR., is the national presi-
dent of the University of Kentucky Alumni
Association.

RICHARD W. SMITH, a prominent attorney in
Staunton, Va., was recently elected a fellow
of the American College of Trial Lawyers.
He is also a member of the Executive
Committee of the Virginia State Bar Coun-
cil, chairman of the Legal Ethics Commit-
tee of the State Bar, and a Fellow of the
International Society of Barristers. Smith is
also senior warden of the Trinity Episcopal
Church, a trustee of King’s Daughters Hos-
pital, and Stuart Hall Academy.

1942

After 32 years with the Federal Govern-
ment, CHRIS BARNEKOV is retiring and enter-
ing the real estate business in McLean, Va.

LAWRENCE J. (JACK) FISHER, JR., is a partner
of Knit-Away, Inc., a new company en-
gaged in manufacturing double-knit fabrics
with headquarters at Radford, N. C. He
and his wife live in Pinehurst, N. C., and
have four sons.

1943

PAUL M. SHuFoRD, formerly a_ practicing
attorney in a Richmond, Va., law firm, has
been named to the newly created position
of corporate vice president-law for the Cen-
tral National Corp. Shuford joined Cen-
tral National Bank in January, 1973, as
head of the Trust Division. As vice president
of the holding company, Shuford will be
responsible for the administration of all
corporate legal services.

JosepH E, Lee is vice president-sales for
McLaughlin Gormby King Co. of Minnea-
polis. He and his wife have two sons.

1944

BEN P. Brown has practiced law in Sum-
mersville, W. Va., since 1946. In July, 1973,
he assumed the position of senior vice presi-
dent and trust officer for Union Trust Na-
tional Bank in Parkersburg.

March 1974

WeL President

(See story on P. 21.)

1945

WALTER E. FRYE has been teaching for 18
years in the city schools of Santa Barbara,
Calif. Named “Optimist of the Year” in
1973, Frye has three sons and does some
coaching for Boys Clubs.

JouHN B. ATKINS, JR., is on the board of di-
rectors of the Commercial National Bank
in Shreveport, La., and also Commander
Nickel Copper, Ltd. of Montreal, Canada.

COLLIER WENDEROTH, JR., president of O. K.
Feed Mills, Inc., of Fort Smith, Ark., has
been named to the board of directors of
the First National Bank. Wenderoth is also
president of the Westark Poultry Process-
ing Corp. and is chairman of the board of
Sparks Regional Medical Center. He is
also a trustee of Austin Theological Semi-
nary in Austin, Tex., a director of the Pres-
byterian Foundation Synod of Arkansas,
and secretary of the Arkansas Poultry Fede-
ration. He is a past director of the U. S.
Chamber of Commerce and a past trustee
of the Fort Smith Junior College. He was
named to the board of directors of the
First National Bank in January along with
two other Washington and Lee men—John
M. Smith, 57, and Robert Young, III, ’63.

1946

NORMAN FISCHER is in Austin, Tex., where
he is with R. Miller Hicks Co. He engages
in the brokerage business and_ broadcast
consulting. Fischer is president of Advance,
Inc., and owner of KRMH-FM in Austin.

1947

JOHN W. FUNKHOUSER is a_ professor of
geology at John Tyler Community College
in Chester, Va., and was recently elected
chairman of the Geology Section of the
Virginia Academy of Science. During 1973,
he was active in the nuclear power plant
location controversy in Louisa County. He
was the scientist who discovered the geologic
fault under the proposed reactors. —

(949

Dr. MASON G. ROBERTSON is a_ practicing
hematologist and oncologist in Savannah,
Ga. He is chief of staff of the Memorial
Medical Center and a director of the board
on oncology of the Savannah Tumor Clinic.
Robertson is also chairman of the leukemia
section of the Chatham Unit American Can-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

cer Society. He is a member of Sickle Cell
Community Education and Development
Committee.

Dr. DAvip KELLER CALDWELL is head of the
Biocommunication and Marine Mammal
Research Facility of the University of
Florida Communication Sciences Labora-
tory, located at the Cornelius Vanderbilt
Whitney Marine Research Laboratory of
the University of Florida at Marineland,
Fla. On January 7, 1974, he appeared on
the N.B.C. television program “To Tell the
Truth,” featuring Gary Moore. The panel
picked Dr. Caldwell as the man involved
in working with dolphin communication.
He and his wife, Melba, are a professional
team in their dolphin work and recently
were filmed at their laboratory for pro-
grams on marine mammals produced by
the B.B.C. and French TV. On Christmas
Eve, 1972, they flew to Paris at the invita-
tion of French national television to appear
on a live discussion program on dolphins.
The program, dealing with dolphins and
dolphin research, included among the panel
Robert Merle, author of The Day of the
Dolphin, a popular fantasy recently re-
leased as a widely-publicized motion pic-
ture.

1950

C. DwicHt Townes is on the faculties of
the University of Minnesota School of Medi-
cine and the Alfred Adler Institute of Min-
nesota and is teaching in the family prac-
tice residency program at the Hennepin
County General Hospital in Minneapolis.

U. S. Rep. G. WILLIAM WHITEHURST was a
member of the Congressional delegation
that visited Egypt and met with President
Sadat and Egyptian defense officials. The
delegation also held discussions with Israeli
Prime Minister Golda Meir and Defense
Minister Dayan. The members of the dele-
gation made an evaluation of Soviet and
American arms used in the October, 1973,
war and endeavored to assist in reaching a
better understanding for both sides.

GERARD A. BURCHELL, JR., is in his fifth year
of teaching sciences at Rochester, N. H., Jun-
ior High School.

RICHARD E. Hopces of Atlanta has been
elected to the Board of Governors of the
Public Broadcasting Service (P.B.S.). Hodges
is executive vice president of Liller Neal
Battle & Lindsey, Inc., advertising agency

4

and public relations counseling firm. A
former member of the Atlanta Board of
Education, he is lay representative to
P.B.S. for the board’s own station, WETV.

1951

RoBErT C. Carey has opened a law office on
Madison Avenue in New York City. He is
also president of the Brooklyn Home for
Children and is a director and secretary of
the Brooklyn Eye and Ear Hospital.

WILLIAM E. DANIEL, JR., has been elected
rector of Board of Visitors of Longwood
College.

Lewis PresTON Co .uins, III, is advertising
manager of radio station WMEV in Marion,
Va. He is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the First National Exchange Bank.
He and his wife have three children.

BARTON MACDONALD is associated with the
Monsanto Co. in the St. Louis, Mo., area.
He is business director for detergents and
phosphates. He and his wife, Jean, have
a son and a daughter.

DavE WOLF, JR., is executive vice president
of Southeastern Aviation Underwriters, Inc.
and Inby-Seawell Co., Inc., general insur-
ance agents in Atlanta, Ga. He and his wife
have two children.

BEVERLY A. (MONK) Davis, III, of Rocky
Mount, Va., who was appointed in May,
1973, by Governor Holton for an interim
period as one of the three judges for the
new 22nd Judicial Circuit Court, was re-
elected for an eight year term by the Vir-
ginia General Assembly in January, 1974.
He joins two other Washington and Lee
judges, Judge F. Nelson Light, 52, and
Judge Robert F. Ward, ’52, on this bench.

MILBURN K. NOELL, JR., has been elected
counsel for First Tennessee National Corp.
of Memphis. Noell, whose promotion was
effective Jan. 1, 1974, joined the trust de-
partment of First National in 1963.

JupGE HarvEY OAKLEY was re-elected judge
of the Seventh Judicial Circuit of West
Virginia.

DonALD W. MASON has resigned as States
Attorney for Alleghany County, Md., after
15 years of service.

1952

Dr. RoBertT A. MASLANSKY Was

24

awarded

the Harrison Cup by the Jaycees for out-
standing contributions to public health in
Minneapolis for his support in establishing
and supervising methadone clinics for the
treatment of narcotics addicts.

Jupce F. Netson Licut of Chatham, Va.,
has been re-elected by the Virginia General
Assembly as judge of the 22nd Judicial Cir-
cuit Court. Prior to serving in this capacity,
Judge Light had served as judge of the
Trial Justice Court for Pittsylvania County
for several years. Light is one of three
Washington and Lee men who serve as
judges on the 22nd Judicial Circuit Court.
The others are Judge B. A. Davis, III, 51,
and Judge Robert F. Ward, ’52.

Epwarp (TED) SICKLE is with Huffman
Manufacturing Co. as national accounts bi-
cycle sales manager.

JupcE RoBerT F. Warp of Chatham, Va., who
was named in June, 1973, as one of two in-
terim judges of the Juvenile and Domestic
Relations District Court, has been elected
by the Virginia General Assembly for a six-
year term as Judge of the 22nd Judicial Cir-
cuit Court. He will serve Pittsylvania,
Franklin, and Danville. He joins two other
Washington and Lee men, Judges Beverly
A. Davis, III, and F. Nelson Light on this
bench.

WILLIAM H. NELSON is currently director of
physical plant for Southern Illinois Univer-
sity. He joined the university in 1965, after
retirement from the U. S. Air Force.

1953

Dr. JoHN I. BOWMAN, JR., is president of
the Virginia Society of Oral Surgeons.

RosBert F, Ducuay has been reappointed
group commander of the Harrisburg, Pa.,
U.S. Naval Reserve Units. He was also re-
cently elected to the West Shore School
Board.

GEORGE W. St. CLAIR was recently elected a
senior vice president of First and Merchants
Corp. of Richmond and will serve in the
loan policy and administration area for the
corporation. Employed in 1957 as credit
analyst, St. Clair was elected assistant cashier
in 1962, assistant vice president in 1965 and
vice president in 1968. He has served as
treasurer and trustee of the Historic Rich-
mond Foundation and as a director of the

Richmond Association of Credit Manage-
ment.

JoHN J. SCHUMACHER of Canton, Ohio is
vice president for marketing for Structural
Stoneware, Inc., of Minerva, Ohio. The firm
manufacturers ceramic floortile and is dis-
tributed nationally and internationally. He
is a consultant and a speaker among archi-
tectural societies and trade organizations.

1954

SEDGWICK L. Moss, a resident of Arlington,
Va., and an employee of American Airlines,
is an advisory member of the Department
of Transportation Bike-ways Committee and
is assisting county planners in the develop-
ment of a 40-mile network of modern
bike lanes for commuters and recreational
cyclists.

THE Rev. WALTER E. SMITH is in the private
practice of pastoral counseling. He is a mem-
ber of the American Group Psycotherapy As-
sociation and recently was elected president
of the Ansley Park Civic Association in At-
lanta, Ga.

WILLIAM S. LUCKETT was recently elected
president of the Larchmont, N. Y., Yacht
Club.

CARL D. SWANSON, director of the Madison
College Counselor Education Program, has
been appointed as a visiting scientist for
1974 by the American Psychological As-
sociation-National Science Foundation. In
this capacity, Dr. Swanson will serve as an
educational consultant for institutions of
higher education. He was also recently
appointed to serve on the Episcopal Bishop’s
Advisory Council on Applicants for the
Ministry. The council is sponsored by the
three Episcopal Dioceses in Virginia and
screens all candidates for the Episcopal
priesthood. Before joining the Madison
faculty last fall, Dr. Swanson was on the
faculty at Western Michigan University
and was vice president and dean of student
affairs at Davis and Elkins College. He is a
member of the American Personnel and
Guidance Association and the Association
for Counselor Education and Supervision.

Bruce R. KING, JR., who was recently pro-
moted to senior vice president of Richmond
Corp., has now been elected senior vice
president of the Life Insurance Co. of Vir-
ginia, a major division of the parent
company, Richmond Corp. King joined

Wel

 

ate of The Boston Co., Inc., a major asset
management and_ investment counseling
firm with 13 affiliates. His firm is now
known as The Boston Co. of New Orleans.

After 15 years in the Army, ED HEMPSTEAD
is now a civilian engaged in the real estate
business in Fayetteville, N. C.

J. Wititram Rep, officer-in-charge of the
Correspondent Banking Division, has been
named a senior vice president of the First
and Merchants National Bank of Richmond,
Va. Reid began with the bank in 1961 and
became assistant vice president in 1967 and
vice president in 1970.

THOMAS FRIEDMAN recently formed a sales
company—J.A.J. and Associates, Inc. The
Cleveland-based company sells for 17 manu-
facturers in six midwestern states.

Epwarp M. GeorcE, formerly a bank ex-
aminer with the Federal Reserve Bank of
Cleveland, Ohio, is now vice president and
cashier of the Half Dollar Trust and Savings
Bank of Wheeling, W. Va. His previous
business connections were with Weirton
Steel Co., the First National Bank and
Trust Co. of Steubenville, and the Wellsburg
Banking and Trust Co. He is a graduate of
the Stonier Graduate School of Banking
and is a former vice president and direc-
tor of the Wellsburg Chamber of Commerce.
He and his wife, the former Sandra Fevier,
have three sons.

CHARLES J. CELLA has been appointed to
the board of directors for the National
Gypsum Co. Cella is president of the South-
ern Real Estate Financial Co., a real estate
and finance firm with headquarters in St.
Louis, Mo. He is also president of South-
western Enterprise Inc., of Little Rock, Ark.,
and a member of the board of directors of
the First National Bank in Little Rock, the
Hot Springs Savings and Loan Association,
and the Thoroughbred Racing Associa-
tions of America. Cella is active in commun-
ity affairs as a governor of the Arkansas
State Fair and Livestock Show and as a di-
rector of the Crippled Children’s Associa-
tion of Arkansas.

Dr. Irvin R. BERMAN is associate professor
of surgery at New York University Medical
School. He has been appointed director of
Surgical Service “A,” one of two general sur-
gical services at Bellevue Hospital Center
in New York City. Dr. Berman will also

26

have a showing of his paintings at Lerner
Heller Gallery in New York City in June,
1974.

J. Witt1am Rei was elected senior vice
president of First and Merchants Bank ef-
fective Jan. 1, 1974. He continues as head
of Correspondent Bank Division.

1959

G. Davis CALVERT is division manager for
Whiting-Turner Contracting Co. in Balti-
more. He and his wife, Joanne, have three
children.

Dr. WILLIAM S. HArrRIsON has been induct-
ed as a fellow of the Academy of General
Dentistry. He is also president-elect of the
Western Shore Dental Society. He and his
wife, Marcia, have three children, and the
family lives in Annapolis, Md.

1960

Ropert E. COLLeTt, became a partner and
part owner in June, 1973, of the Ft.
Worth travel agency, Hoyt Barker Collett.
For the 14 years before this association, Col-
lett was in the insurance business as execu-
tive vice president of the Millers Group.

JoHN P. Hits has received a special com-
mendation award from the U.S. Attorney
General. He is chief U. S. counsel in the case
involving the waste discharges by Reserve
Mining Co. into Lake Superior. The case
has drawn considerable national interest.

1961

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM F. FORD, a
son, William Francis, Jy., on July 16, 1973.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES K. RANDOLPH,
a son, Peter, on May 31, 1973. The family
lives in Mechanicsburg, Pa.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH O. HUNT-
{NGDON, a daughter, Betsy Carol, on Dec. 7,
1973. Huntingdon is an attorney in Fair-
born, Ohio.

RosBert K. Park, II, has served a two-year
presidency of West Virginia Savings and
Loan Association. He currently serves on the
U. S. League of Savings Association. In the
educational realm, Park is serving on the
Jackson County Board of Education and
the Glenville State College Advisory Board.
He lives in Ravenwood, W. Va.

After completing his M. S. in international
affairs at George Washington University,
Maj. ALBERT G. FOLCHER, JR., is currently
Operations officer for the First Squadron,
Eleventh Armored CAU Regiment in Fulda,
Germany. He has border duty between
East and West Germany.

DoNALD W. THALACKER passed the Mary-
land architectural registration examination
in June, 1973. He is currently special as-
sistant to the director of the Office of Con-
struction Management, Public Buildings
Service of the General Services Administra-
tion.

J. Harvey ALLEN is vice president of J. H.
Allen Co., Inc., and Allen-Spiva Co. of
Houston, Tex., an associate of the parent
company. The J. H. Allen Co. has repre-
sented major manufacturers since 1900.

WILLIAM M. MASON, JR., is practicing in At-
lanta with the law firm of Levine, D’Ales-
sio & Cohn. He is married to the former
Katrina Tiedeman. Mrs. Mason is director
of recreation and therapy at the Grady Me-
morial Hospital.

NORBERT W. IRVINE is Chairman of the
Higher Education and Research Division of
the North Carolina Art Education Associa-
tion.

J. Carrer Fox has recently been elected
vice president for corporate planning and
development of the Chesapeake Corp. of
Virginia.

CHARLES L. CAMPBELL is working with South
Louisiana Production Co. a subsidiary of
Central Louisiana Electric Co., to help find
more gas and oil reserves. He and his wife
have three daughters and one son.

1962

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PETER A. AGELASTO,
III, a son, Peter Alexander, IV, on Feb. 12,
1974. Agelasto is a practicing attorney in
Norfolk, Va.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. LEsLtie H. PEARD, III,
a daughter, Catherine Corder, on June 8,
1973. Peard was recently promoted by East-
man Kodak and now lives in San Francisco.

HENRY LEE CarTeR has begun the practice
of law in Orange, Va. For the past year, he
was a special assistant to the Attorney Gen-
eral of Virginia, attached to the Highway

WeL

Tain P. Tomkins

 

James S. LEGG, JR., is an analyst for Com-
puter Sciences Corp. in Silver Spring, Md.,
under contract with the Goddard Space
Flight Center. The center’s most recent pro-
ject was placing Radio Astronomy Explor-
er-B, which has antennae extending the
length of five football fields, into orbit
around the moon.

Dr. K. EDWARD JANSEN, a faculty member at
the Western New England College in Spring-
field, Mass., since 1970, has published an
essay entitled “Mencken on Ibsen: Even
Mencken Nods.” ‘The essay takes the
noted critic H. L. Mencken to task for
what Dr. Jansen terms “a great limita-
tion in his own perception which produced
an essay Whose value .. . turns sour ex-
cept for Mencken’s excellent vibrant use
of words.” Before joining the faculty of
Western New England College, Jansen was
al assistant professor of English at Ohio
University.

Dr. MELVYN LapEs is completing a hemato-
logy-oncology fellowship and expects to
practice in the Crozier Hospital in Chester,
Pa.

1966

Lewis N. MILLER, JR., has been promoted
to assistant vice president in charge of
planning and budgeting at Central Na-
tional Bank in Richmond, Va. He joined
Central in June, 1972, after completing an
M.B.A. program at the University of Vir-
ginia Graduate School of Business Admini-
stration.

After receiving an LL.B. degree from the
University of Virginia Law School in 1972,
J. MicHEL Marcoux studied law during the
1972-73 session at Queens’ College, Uni-
versity of Cambridge. Admitted to the Vir-
ginia State Bar in 1973, Marcoux is pre-
sently working as law clerk to the Hon.
Roger Robb, U. S. Court of Appeals, for
the District of Columbia.

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, JR., has been pro-
moted to the position of loan administra-
tion officer for Fidelity American Bank-
shares, Inc., a _ registered bank holding
company with headquarters in Lynchburg,
Va.

MICHAEL T. GoopE has left the common-
wealth’s attorney’s office to enter private
law practice in Portsmouth, Va.

CHARLES H. NEwMaAN, III, has been appoint-

28

ed president and chief executive officer of
U.S. Life Title Insurance Co.’s subsidiary
in Fort Worth. U. S. Life Title recently pur-
chased the Fort Worth Title Co. The firm
has headquarters in Dallas and New York
and operates in 35 states, the Bahamas, and
the Virgin Islands. The title companies are
subsidiaries of U. S. Life Corp., a diversified
financial service company. Newman, after
receiving his law degree from the University
of Texas, was manager of Service Title Com-
pany in Midland, Tex. He formerly served
as president of the Midland County Junior
Bar Association and regional vice president
of the Texas Land Title Association.

GERARD T. TAYLOR has been named senior
research scientist I in the process develop-
ment section, research and development de-
partment, at Norwich Pharmacal Co., a di-
vision of Morton-Norwich Products, Inc.
Previously a postdoctoral research associate
at Cornell University, Dr. Taylor is a mem-
ber of the American Chemical Society and
co-author of five published scientific papers.
He and his wife have one daughter; the
family lives in Norwich, N. Y.

1967

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. WILLIAM H. JEFF-
RESS, JR., a son, William H., III, on Nov.
9, 1973. Jeffress is now practicing law in
Washington, D. C. with the firm of Miller,
Cassidy, Larroca and Lewin.

RICHARD L. HARDEN is associated with the
law firm of Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam and
Roberts. He is married to the former Joan
May.

GrorcE N. Stramas is currently with the
U. S. Banking Department of Bankers Trust
Co. in New York City. He travels a great
deal, primarily to Chicago.

AUSLEY WATSON, JR., is practicing law with
the firm of Macfarlane, Ferguson, Allison &
Kelly in Tampa, Fla.

RICHARD E. SIMON, JR., received his mas-
ter’s degree from the University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley, in 1969 and is currently
with the Coronet Instructional Films Divi-
sion of Esquire, Inc., in Chicago, where he
is writing and producing educational tapes
and films. For three years, Simon taught
special rescue classes in Chicago’s inner
city schools and concurrently wrote and
edited a series of books for minority group

reading produced by Childrens Press. He
was married March 18, 1973, to Fern Moss.

DoucLas M. Dosson is an air force captain at
Langley AFB, Va., serving as a communica-
tion officer at GQ Tactical Air Command
Prior to that he served in assignments in
Okinawa, New Mexico, and Mississippi.

Dr. T. K. Oates, after completing one year
of surgical residency in Rochester, N. Y., is
now stationed in Izmir, Turkey, with the
U. S. Air Force.

ANDREW H. Lupton, formerly with Fry Con-
sultants in the Washington, D. C. area, is
now in Indianapolis with the Academy. of
Educational Development. The Academy is
on a project, supported by the Lilly En-
dowment, to study the systems of financing
public higher education in the State of In-
diana. He is working closely with the In-
diana State Commission for Higher Educa-
tion.

Davip J. ANDRE (see 1964)

1968

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. GEOFFREY L. STONE,
a daughter, Beverley, on April 24, 1973. The
family lives in Arlington, Va.

ALTON PHILLIPS was discharged from the
U. S. Air Force with the rank of captain
in March, 1972, after having seen duty with
the Judge Advocate General’s Corps in Korea.
He is now in the private practice of law
in Jackson, Miss., as a bond counsel. He
and his wife have three daughters.

JAMes W. LarcE is in his second year of
surgical training at Ohio State University.
He was married in May, 1973, to the for-
mer Nancy Allen of Royal Oak, Mich.

Jon T. Hutsizer has been promoted to
communications consultant-industries spec-
ialist with New Jersey Bell Telephone Co.

CHRISTOPHER B. CHANDOR has received his
J. D. degree from Villanova School of Law.
He now has a firm, Chandor and Antheil,
in Doylestown, Pa., specializing in real es-
tate law. He is also president of Westwyk,
Inc. a real estate development company.

W. Tuomas INGOLD is a financial analyst in
the Treasury Operations Department of
the Potomac Electric Power Co. He resides
in Alexandria, Va.

F. L. WILSON, JR., was recently elected vice

WeL

 

 

Special Notice to Alumni
In accordance with Article 1(d) of the Articles of Incorporation, the nominat-
ing committee of Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., has nominated for election

to the Alumni Board of Directors at a meeting of the corporation to be
held at 10:30 a.m. on May 11, 1974, the following:

@ Marion G. Heatwole, ’41A, ’46L, of Pittsburgh, Pa.
@ Samuel B. Hollis, ’51A, of Memphis, ‘Tenn.
@ Courtney R. Mauzy, Jr., 61A, of Raleigh, N. C.

Members of the nominating committee are William E. Latture, ’49, chairman,
John M. McCardell, ’37, and Robert H. Seal, °44.

 

 

president of Mortgage & Equity, Consul-
tants, Inc., a real estate investment trust
in Baltimore, Md. He and his wife, Pat,
live in Towson.

GEORGE A. MORGAN, Jr., is Florida division
manager for Morgan-Wightman Supply Co.
Residing in Ft. Lauderdale, he manages
three lumber yards and a millwork produc-
tion plant.

Guy MorrisON TOWNLEY is part owner of
Townley Dairy Co. in Oklahoma City.

S1ID ROSENBERG is employed as a mortgage
loan officer for Marine Midland Reality Cre-
dit Corp. in Tampa, Fla.

JEFFREY M. WAINSCOTT is president and
general manager of Weadon Printing Serv-
ices, Inc., in Alexandria, Va. He was for-
merly Southern Regional Representative for
the Republican National Committee.

JAMEs W. BariA has been promoted to di-
rector of branch operations for Beavers Fur-
niture Service, Inc., of Atlanta.

JAMEs OPPENHEIMER is completing the first
semester in the master’s program in reha-
bilitation counseling at the University of
Pittsburgh. He is also director of the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh’s Slavic Choir. He is
married to the former Christine Crawford.

CAPTAIN JOHN W. RICE, JR., will be attend-
ing the Air Force Institute of ‘Technology
at Wright-Patterson AFB in May, 1974, to
get his master’s degree in nuclear physics.

A. RODNEY BOREN, JR., has been awarded a
degree of Master of International Manage-
ment from ‘Thunderbird Graduate School
of International Management in Glendale,
Ariz. Thunderbird Graduate School is the
only one in the United States devoted ex-
clusively to training men and women for
international careers.

After receiving an M. Ed. degree in admini-
Stration and supervision from Virginia
Commonwealth University, ROBERT B. Car-
TER is currently teaching in the Richmond
public schools. He was married June 23,
1973 to Susan Clark Turner.

1969
BORN: Mr. and Mrs. TimoTuy Rosy As-
KEW, JR., a son, Timothy, III, on Sept. 23,
1973. Askew is serving as law clerk to the
Hon. Frank A. Hooper, senior U. S. Dis-

March 1974

trict Judge for the Northern District of
Georgia. The family lives in Decatur.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. HAROLD F. GALLIVAN,
III, a son, Walter Clark, on Dec. 17, 1973.
Gallivan is assistant vice president and ad-
ministrator of branches of the South Caro-
lina National Bank.

BORN: Dr. and Mrs. THOMAS K. SLABAUGH
a son, Thomas K., Jr. on Dec. 27, 1973. Dr.
Slabaugh will start surgical residency at
Emory University Hospital in July, 1974,
and urology residency in July, 1975.

HENRY L. ROEDIGER, III, received his Ph.D.
degree from Yale University in June, 1973,
in the field of cognitive psychology. Cur-
rently he is an assistant professor of psy-
chology at Purdue University.

NEIL KESSLER received his LL.B. degree from
George Washington Law School in June,
1973, and was married to Lynn S. Lewis in
July, 1973. He is currently practicing law
in Richmond, Va., with the firm of McGuire,
Woods and Battle.

JAMEs C. HAMILL, JR., formerly an_attor-
ney with the Federal Power Commission
in Washington, D. C., is now attorney-
advisor to Mayo J. Thompson, a commis-
sioner from Houston, Tex. He will remain
in Washington in his new post.

DR. JOHN GREGORY SIMMONS graduated in
May, 1973, from Tulane Medical School.
He is interning at Charity Hospital in New
Orleans.

DEAN K. VEGOSEN has formed a new law
partnership, Lewis, Vegosen, and Kaeppel
in Palm Beach, Fla. The firm will specialize
in real estate, corporate, and estate probate
matters.

Dr. ‘THOMAS NEWMAN, after receiving his
M.D. degree from Vanderbilt Medical School,
is now serving an internship at the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati and the Cincinnati
General Hospital. He expects to do a resi-
dency in neurology at the University of
Miami in Florida next year.

After graduating from Fuller Theological
Seminary in Pasadena, Calif., in June, 1973,
the REV. JOHN C. WHITE, JR., is currently
the assistant minister of the South Pres-
byterian Church in Denver, Colo., in charge
of the educational and youth programs. He

is married to the former Anne Waters of
Annapolis, Md.

Joun F. KIRCHER is working towards a
master’s degree in broadcast management
at Michigan State University.

1970

MARRIED: JOHN M. KEFAUVER, JR., to Mar-
marget Webb on Dec. 22, 1973. They cur-
rently live in San Antonio, Tex., but ex-
pect to move soon to the Northwest moun-
tain region.

RICHARD M. Irsy, III, is with the U. S. Army
Judge Advocate General’s Corps for tort
litigation, and is stationed at the Pentagon
in Washington, D. C.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. PHILIP J. TISSUE, a
son, John Philip, on Jan. 17, 1974. Tissue,
after obtaining a law degree from Vadn-
derbilt, is practicing with the firm of
Moore, Stout, Waddell, and Ledford in
Kingsport, ‘Tenn.

ROBERT W. Root, Jr., after serving in the
U. S. Army until June, 1972, entered gra-
duate study at the University of Illinois,
Urbana, where he is seeking a Ph.D. degree
in hydrogeochemistry. He was married Sept.
25, 1971, to the former Brenda Lee Davis in
Harrisonburg, Va. Mrs. Root is pursuing a
master’s degree in urban sociology.

CapT. H. A. GLEASON will be released from
the U. S. Marine Corps in April, 1974, and
expects to practice law in New York City
with the firm of Mudge, Rose, Guthrie and
Alexander.

WILLIAM V. CorRBAN is a partner in Kelley-
Lemman-Corban Investment Services, a real
estate investment counseling, management,
and appraisal firm in Columbus, Ohio. He
and his‘ wife have a son and a daughter.

1g7 Lb.

JoHN M. McCARDELL, Jr., is in his second
year of graduate study in American history
at Harvard University under Prof. David
Donald.

JEFFREY B. SPENCE is in his last semester
at the Theological School of Drew Uni-
versity, where he serves as president of the
student body. He expects his ordination
into the United Church of Christ upon gra-
duation in June. Currently he is serving

29

as associate pastor of the Armonk United
Methodist Church in Armonk, N. Y.

NELSON BRINCKERHOFF has received his cer-
tification to teach in the New Jersey ele-
mentary schools.

HOLLis ‘TAGGART expects to graduate from
Tulane Law School in May, 1974. He was
selected for the Moot Court Board during
his senior year.

RussELL P. WyNING is interning at the
Rice University Center for Community De-
sign and Research on a grant from the
U. S. Department of Transportation. He
expects to pursue an M.B.A. program.

WILLIAM A. KAHN has been promoted to
assistant investment officer for United Vir-
ginia Bankshares, Inc.

TimotHy H. Dyer is with the New Bedford
Five Cents Savings Bank in New Bedford,
Mass. He also does some coaching of hockey
and is an adviser for a Junior Achievement
Co.

RoGerR L. YOUNG is currently at Mac Dill
AFB in Tampa, Fla., undergoing Air Force
training as a weapons systems operator in
the F-4 Phantom II aircraft. He and _ his
wife, Bonnie, have a daughter and a son.

bgie

MARRIED: JEFFREY CARL Burris to Nancy
J. Sternberger on Aug. 4, 1973. Burris is
employed by Massachusetts Mutual Life In-
surance Co. in Tucson, Ariz., where Nancy
is finishing her degree at the University of
Arizona.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. BRADLEY G. BOONE,
a daughter, April Elizabeth, on Dec. 31,
1973.

BORN: Mr. and Mrs. JEREMIAH S. MILLER,
a son, Stephen Gardner, on Nov. 22, 1973.
Miller is an attorney in New Canaan, Conn.
The family lives in Darien.

WILLIAM RUNGE MARTIN is a Sales associate
with the real estate group of Caine Co. in
Greenville, S. C.

WILLIAM THOMAS ANDERSON holds the rank
of Captain in the U. S. Marines and is with
the office of the Staff Judge Advocate, Ist
Marine Division, Camp Pendleton, Calif.

JEFFREY M. O’DELL is currently working for
the Virginia Historical Landmarks Commis-

30

sion on an architectual and archeological
survey of Essex County.

BERNARD CANDLER Gricsby, II, is currently an
economist for the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board. He expects to return to graduate
school in September, 1974.

Timotuy R. ASKEw, JR. (see 1969)

1973

MARRIED: W. LeEE Harriss to Sylvia Coop-
er on June 9, 1973. The wedding attend-
ants included Jeff Driscoll, °72, Dennis
Myers, ’73, and Amos Workman, ’74. Har-
riss is with Central Carolina Bank and
Trust Co. in Durham, N. C.

Greorce H. (Tosy) Harper, III, is a legis-
lative assistant to U.S. Rep. Lou Frey, Jr.

GARLAND H. DANIEL is working on_ his
doctorate at Brown University in the Depart-
ment of Geological Sciences. He currently
is doing a_ series of petrological studies
under an NASA grant on several luna rocks
returned by the crew of Apollo 17.

RONALD PEN is a graduate student in music
composition at Chicago Musical College of
Roosevelt’ University. He also works part
time in the band and orchestra department
of Lyon and Healy’s Music Store in Chicago.
Also he does some substitute music teach-
ing in junior high school and is writing a
flute and oboe duet.

After completing Judge Advocate General’s
School, CLypE M. HENKEL is currently serv-
ing as a law specialist with the U. S. Coast
Guard at Cleveland, Ohio. He is married
to the former Tina Rolen.

RALPH E, LEHR, JR., is attending Northwes-
tern University’s Graduate School of Man-
agement.

DoucLas R. CLELAN has joined the Pennsyl-
vania Chamber of Commerce as a research
associate in the statewide organization’s bu-
reau of economic development. Clelan and
his wife, the former Nancy Wickert, live in
Dillsburg, Pa.

HENRY WATKINS ELLERSON, III, has opened
his law office in Orange, Va., along with
Henry Lee Carter of the Law Class of
1962. He and his wife, Sarah, are living at
“Rosni,” a diary farm in Madison Mills.

Until November, 1973, J. JASON MATTHEWS
has been skipper of a 100-foot windjammer

 

D. R. Clelan, ’73

schooner. Currently, he is a special student
at Trinty College in Hartford, Conn., and
is making plans to enter graduate journalism
school in September. He continues his inter-
ests in travel, karate, and writing.

G. ARCHER FRIERSON is a partner in the
firm of G. A. Frierson & Son, cotton plant-
ers just south of Shreveport, La.

PHILIP J. WASILAUSKY is with the law firm
of Gaylor and Hampton in Lynbrook, Long
Island, N. Y.

 

In Memoriam

1909

OscAR RANDOLPH PRICE, a retired railway
civil engineer of Harrisonburg, Va., died Jan.
23, 1974. Price was on the engineering
force that located the line of the Chesa-
peake Western Railway west from Bridge-
water. He was also one of the engineers
who located the line of the Virginian Rail-
way west from Roanoke. He was a captain
in the Army Corps of Engineers during
World War I. In 1941 he retired as assis-
tant valuation engineer for the Western
Maryland Railway in Baltimore. Price was
a Mason and a member of the American
Railway Engineering Association.

 

SAMUEL REYNOLDS MARKS, a leading lawyer
and businessman of Jacksonville, Fla., died
July 16, 1973. Admitted to the bar in 1909,
Marks’ career paralled the development per-
iod of modern Florida. His contributions
to his community are legend, and he had
an abiding interest in the Boy’s Home As-
sociation.

JOHN J. FoRRER, who was an engineer with
the Virginia Department of Highways many
years, died Oct. 16, 1973. He joined the
Virginia Department of Highways in 1917
and retired as assistant chief engineer in
1952. Forrer had also been an _ executive
director of the Virginia Asphalt Associa-

| 1910

JupcE WILBER LUTHER TILDEN, well-known
attorney and judge in Orlando, Fla., died
in Winter Garden, Fla., in December, 1973.
A former president of the Orlando Chamber
of Commerce, Judge Tilden also engaged
in an extensive citrus growing business and
was a former member of the Florida Citrus

WeL

 

Mrs. Gaines Dies

It was learned as this magazine was
going to press that Sadie DuVergne Ro-
bert Gaines, widow of Dr. Francis P.
Gaines, president of the University from
1930 to 1959, died unexpectedly on
March 11 in a Lexington Hospital. In her
nearly three decades as W&L’s “first
lady,’ Mrs. Gaines entertained hundreds

was a gracious hostess, and she and Dr.
Gaines for many years made it a point
to have every W&L student as a guest
in their home. Mrs. Gaines maintained
a deep interest in Washington and Lee
up to her death and continued to en-
tertain her friends, new and old, in her
Lexington home, which she and _ Dr.
Gaines built after his retirement in 1959.

She was born in State College, Miss.,
where her father, Dr. J. C. Robert, was

students in the Presidents

 

of visiting dignataries and thousands of
Home. She

dean of Mississippi State College. It was
there in 1917 that she married Dr.

grandchildren,
nieces.

Gaines, who was an English professor
at the college. They came to Washing-
ton and Lee in 1930 from Wake Forest
College of which Dr. Gaines was presi-
dent.

She is survived by three sons, Dr. F.
Pendleton Gaines, Jr., Dr. Edwin M.
Gaines, and William R. Gaines, all alum-
ni of W&L; and three brothers, Dr. Jose-
ph Robert, Dr. Pierre Robert, and H.
Cavett Robert, a ’33 W&L alumnus, nine
and nine nephews and

 

 

Commission. He retired from the _ active
practice of law in 1945 to devote most of
his time to citrus business.

1915

ANDREW WENDELL MANN, former city at-
torney and a leading criminal lawyer in
Ashland, Ky., since 1919, died June 8, 1973.
From 1925 until 1931, Mann served the city
of Ashland as prosecutor. He was named
corporation counsel in 1944 and held that
post until his retirement in June, 1971.
Toward the end of his service as corpora-
tion counsel, Mann had become the dean
of municipal attorneys in Kentucky and
had a far-ranging reputation in criminal
law. He was honored in 1972 by the Ash-
land Board of City Commissioners.

1916

ByRUM PERRY GOAD, well-known lawyer,
churchman, and former legislator, died in
Mount Airy, N. C., Oct. 10, 1973. Goad was
very active in civic, church, and legal af-
fairs. He began law practice in Hillsville,
Va., in 1917 and continued until 1967. He
served in the Virginia General Assembly
in 1930 and was Commonwealth’s Attorney
for Carroll County for 12 years. As a mem-
ber of the legal profession Goad earned a
statewide reputation as a trial lawyer.

SAMUEL PHILIP KOHEN, an attorney in Dal-
las, Tex., died Nov. 27, 1973. For over 35
years, Kohen was associated with the Claims
Division of the Veterans Administration. He
served with the Veterans Administration in
‘Texas as well as in Washington, D. C. Re-
tiring from the Veterans Administration in
1956, he entered the private practice of
law in Dallas. He was a former president
of the Dallas Junior Chamber of Commerce.

1917

PAUL D. Barns, former Florida State Su-
preme Court Justice, a native Flordian and
a Miamian for over half a century, died
September 22, 1973. For the past 24 years,
since resigning from the high court in Talla-
hassee, Justice Barns had been a lecturer
at the University of Miami Law School. He
made frequent appearances on the Court
of Appeals benches in Miami, Lakeland,
and West Palm Beach, substituting for jur-
ists in those districts. Justice Barns had
won a six-year term on the Supreme Court
in 1946 after having served as a judge on

March 1974

the Dade Civil Court of Records in 1926
and then 19 years as a circuit court judge
in Miami. He was an outspoken critic of
red tape and the overabundance of govern-
ment bookkeeping.

1918

Dr. HERMAN I. PIFER, who completed 50
years of general surgical practice in Win-
chester, Va., in 1971, died Aug. 17, 1973.
He had been on the surgical staff of the
Winchester Memorial Hospital since July,

1922.
192]

EDWARD L. WESTBROOKE, JR., prominent
Jonesboro, Ark. attorney died in February
1974 at his home. Westbrooke served as
attorney for the Jonesboro District of the
Frisco Railroad for many years. Westbrooke
was past vice president-general of the Na-
tional Society of the Sons of the American
Revolution and past historian-general of
that organization. He was past state presi-

dent of the Arkansas Sons of the Ameri-

can Revolution, was a counselor for the
Arkansas Order of the Crown and a mem-
ber of the Jamestown Society. He was
active in other historical organizations.
Westbrooke was also a fellow of the Ameri-
can College of Trial Lawyers and served
as chairman of the executive committee for
the Arkansas Bar Association and held many
other legal posts during his career.

1924

ROBERT SAMUEL WEAVER, JR., leading at-
torney and judge of Lunenburg County Gen-
eral District Court in Virginia, died Dec.
6, 1973. Judge Weaver was also a director
and attorney for the Virginia National Bank
in Victoria, Va. He was a former member of
the State Highway Commission, represent-
ing the Richmond District from 1962 until
1971, and was the commission’s representa-
tive on the Richmond-Petersburg Turnpike
Authority. Judge Weaver was appointed to
the District Court in 1949. He was a for-
mer member of the Lunenburg County In-
dustrial Commission, a former chairman of
the Planning Commission, and a former
member of the Virginia State Bar Council.

JAMES BLANCHARD HUFF, a realtor of Colum-
bus, Ga., died Dec. 14, 1973. He was a
former director of the First National Bank,
also Swift-Freeman Construction Co., and
president of Flournoy Realty Co., all of
Columbus.

1933

JOHN BOLAR REVERCOMB, a former employee
of West Virginia Pulp and Paper Co. in
Covington, Va., died May 29, 1973.

GORDON PAYNE GOLDENBERG, Of Mobile, Ala.
and a former president and treasurer of
Pecks Inc. of Lynchburg, Va. died at the
Mobile General Hospital Feb. 9, 1974. A
native of Lynchburg Goldenberg moved to
Mobile in 1946 after serving with the U. S.
Army. He served as an individual merchan-
dise manager with a local concern in Mo-
bile. In 1962, Goldenberg was named presi-
dent and treasurer of Pecks Inc. and a di-
rector of Almart Stores of which chain
Pecks was a member. In 1967 he served as
president of Downtown Lynchburg Inc.
Goldenberg later went to Delaware and to
Knoxville, Tenn. with Almart before going
back to Mobile.

1935

GEORGE R. GLYNN, a regional sales manager
for Burlington Hosiery Co., a division of
Burlington Industries, died in New Canaan,
Conn., March 7, 1973. Glynn was an_assis-
tant vice president of Burlington Hosiery.
While at Washington and Lee, he played
center on the 1934 Southern Conference
champion football team.

1936

DONALD CLARK, JR., a salesman and a wri-
ter and a former newspaper man, died Dec.
20, 1973 at his home in Baja, Calif. Clark
formerly did newspaper work in Florida,
Texas and South Carolina. He was author
of a collection of poems in 1936 entitled
Year’s at the Spring and was also author of
Poem for a Prophet, published in 1947.

1937

THOMAS BERNARD TOLLEY, a postman at the
Lexington Post Office for 36 years until his
retirement in August, 1973, died Jan. 29,
1974. He was a member of the Lexington
Fire Department and a veteran of World
War II.

1940

PAUL WHITEHEAD GREGORY, JR., former per-
sonnel and industrial relations manager for
Union Carbide Corp. in South Charleston,
W. Va., died Jan. 15, 1974. He was a resi-

31

dent of St. Albans, W. Va., and a director
of the Citizens National Bank there.

JOHN SPEIGHT HUNTER, JR., a long-time resi-
dent of Altadena, Calif., and a manufac-
iurer’s agent, died Jan. 6, 1974. Hunter was
a Navigator with the U. S. Army Air Force
during World War II.

1942

A. THORNTON BEALE, assistant commissioner
for the Virginia Division of Motor Vehicles,
died Dec. 20, 1973. He joined the Division
of Motor Vehicles in 1949 and was in charge
of all of its administrative and planning
activities. He was a past president of the
executive board of the Tuckahoe Elementary
School Parent-Teachers Association and the
Kanawha Recreation Association. He was
also on the advisory committee for the
Henrico County School Board and a member
of the Virginia State Bar Association.

1956

MASON LILLARD HAMPTON, an attorney in
Merrick, N. Y., formerly of Independence,
Va., died Jan. 14, 1974. In 1968, Hampton
was the Republican candidate from the Fifth
Congressional District.

 

Don’t Miss
the

ALUMNI
VS.

VARSITY
FOOTBALL GAME

May 18, 1974

WILSON FIELD

2 P.M.

 

 

 

32

 

The Alumni Office has no address for the alumni
listed below. Please check the list carefully, and if you
know the whereabouts of any of these lost alumni, send
the information to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Virginia 24450. ‘Thank you. Additional lists

Help us round up
these lost alumni

of unlocated alumni will be published later.

William W. Major, Jr., ’39
Alfred N. Mangino, ’38
Milton D. Mann, ’66, ’69
William H. Mann, III, 67
John P. Manning, °55

John T. Manning, 759
Lawrence F. Manfield, ’44
Kerford A. Marchant, Jr., ’62
Richard G. Margolies, ’66
John W. Marshall, ’23
Franklin F. Martin, 55
Volna I. Martin, Jr., 53
Walter I. Martin, Jr., 32
Paul M. Maslansky, ’54
Michael D. Massengill, Jr., ’29
Patrick C. Mathes, Jr., ’35
Charles W. Mathews, ’26
David H. Matson, ’23
Murrell O. Matthews, Jr., ’41
Erle A. Maue, ’24

Raleigh A. Mauzy, ’25
Benjamin D. Maxey, ’31
John McBee, ’37

Ralph F. McBride, 50
James E. H. McCauley, ’45
James A. McCluer, Jr., 737
Carl P. McCoy, ’56
William A. McCoy, ’08
Witcher G. McCullough, ’41
William T. McCutchen, ’69
Alex W. McDonald, 96
Martin S. McDonough, ’07
Douglas S$. McEvoy, 64
Mark D. McGaughey, ’69
Wiley F. McGill, ’11

Joel J. McGinnis, ’30
Francis M. McGinty, ’25
Terence I’. McGreevy, 58
James N. McKay, ’33
Andrew J. McKelvey, ’57
Charles A. McKnight, ’23
William C. McLaren, ’43
John S. McMillan, ’7]

J. Harlan McMurray, ’55
Randall M. McNabb, ’23
Hugh D. McNew, Jr., 65
Peter R. McPherson, ’55
Ronald J. McQuillin, ’55
Frederick W. McWane, Jr., ’38
Charles A. Mead, Jr., 44
Max Meadors, 710

Henry L. Mears, Jr., ’72
Wells Mears, ’38

Russell H. Mechlin, 15
Harry H. Meeks, ’38
William C. Meglitz, ’59
Thomas R. Mercein, ’39
Addison H. Merrill, ’28
Kenneth R. Merrill, ’43, ’48
Joseph V. Mersch, ’20
William S. Mersch, ’20
William S. Metzel, 750
Peter C. Meyer, ’50
Hudson C. Millar, Jr., ’43
Alexander S. Miller, ’27
Burr C. Miller, III, 59
James I. Miller, ’35

John E. Miller, Jr., *48
William S. Miller, II, ’67
William F. Mills, ’52
Charles T. Milne, ’68
David M. Mims, ’27
Frederick M. Mindell, ’66
Joseph P. Mingioli, 45
Albert Miranda, 715
Edward Mischler, ’08
Dewey L. Mitchell, ’49
Dorsey O. Mitchell, ’25

H. Petrie Mitchell, 48
Alexander M. Mohler, II, 52
Michael P. Mohler, ’54
Louis B. Mongeau, ’64
Frank B. Montague, ’56
Harold E. Montague, 37
Martin J. Montague, ’35
Herman P. Montgomery, ’11
Peter T. Montgomery, 58
William E. Montgomery, ’04
Clarence V. Moore, Jr., "49
Horace R. Moore, ’01
James W. Moore, 59

John E. Moore, ’65

Lynn V. Moore, ’57

Scott L. Moore, Jr., ’57
Robert E. Mopsikov, ’25
Asa S. Morgan, ’11

Charles D. Moriarta, 59
Edward H. Morris, ’69
Robert Morris, ’38
William P. Morrison, ’37
Sanford H. Morrow, III, ’63
James M. Morton, ’58

Arthur D. Mosby, ’24
Charles E. Moser, ’26
Henry N. Moses, ’28
Harold E. Moss, ’30
Arthur E. Moulton, ’14
Frank E. Mower, II, ’61
Martin F. Mullin, ’69
William D. Mullinix, ’26
Tage Munthe-Kaas, ’47
Paul L. Munyon, 62
Paul N. Murphy, ’66
George M. Murray, Jr., ’41
James A. Murray, 66

Jon R. Murray, ’60
Robert J. Murray, 42
William A. Murray, Jr., ’28
William A. Mussen, ’37
John M. Myers, 56

Paul E. Myers, ’29
Richard C. Myers, ’36
Sam A. Myford, ’26

John R. Myrick, ’32
Henry C. Nall, Jr., ’07
Harold W. Nase, ’67
Robert Nash, ’62

Howard E. Nay, ’20
William J. Neely, ’34
Reed M. Nessel, 63
Wilson H. Netterville, ’28
William J. Newland, 32
William L. Newman, 714
Edward C. Newsom, ’31
‘Tompkins J. Newton, Jr., ’25
William K. Newton, Jr., ’36
Nils C. B. Nielsen, ’38
William C. Niemeyer, ’51
Edward A. Nix, Jr., 731
Lawrence B. Nobles, ’22
Benjamin L. Noel, ’58
Wilbur K. Noel, 738
Frank R. Nolley, 716
Charles B. Norris, ’49
Fred C. Nowell, ’28
Francis W. Nullmeyer, ’23
William R. Nutt, ’43
Warren U. Ober, ’48
James M. O’Brien, ’08
Kevin E. Ogrady, ’72
Dennis R. O’Neil, ’67
Arthur M. O’Neil, ’26
William F. O’Neil, ’51

S. Jonas Orrling, ’70
George H. Osborne, ’23
William H. Oswald, Jr., ’43
Paul H. Oswley, ’26
Clinton P. Owen, ’27
Harry M. Owen, 719
Stephen T. Owen, ’65
Beverly M. Owens, 49
John C. Packard, ’06

WeL

FUN GALORE
IN 74!

CLASS REUNIONS

for
Academic and Law Classes
of

; ] 1924, 1934, 1949, 1959, 1964
and the
Old Guard ©

May 10-11, 1974

Cocktail Parties ole classmate stories class banquets

 

golf & tennis
Law Day
New campus buildings
under construction
Annual Meeting of the Alumni Association
Reunion Luncheon lacrosse game
John Randolph Tucker Lecture

There's a lot more in ‘74!
Make your plans now to attend

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
Lexington, Virginia 24450

THE MCCORMICK LIBRARY
w & L UNIVERSITY
LEXINGTON VA

 

24450
THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE
CHAIR

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black with gold trim and arms finished in cherry. It makes a
welcome gift for Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings.
All profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

Price: $58.00 f£.0.b.
Lexington, Virginia

 

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

The normal shipping interval is 12 to 16 weeks after the re-
ceipt of the order.

 

 

 

 

 

