JANUARY 1979

iversity

e

S
a
wo
=
"oO

ington an

f wash

1 Magazine O

2

the alumn

 

 

 

 

 

Ce

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
(USPS 667-040)
Volume 54, Number 1, January 1979

Withany G. Washburn. 40 «=. 2. ee Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............ Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 3... 6... ee Associate Editor
yeltrey LM. Hazel, 77 eer s. a ee Assistant Editor
Jey Carter: o..3 i ee Editorial Assistant
Sale Mann in ee ee Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
The Gréat Move. .......0000.05 ee l
A “Great Mover” at Work ......4..............4.... 6
New Commerce Home ..........,.555....... 10
W&L Gazette .ooccc i ee 12
Colvin in Oxford 2.0.0.0... .. 16
Latture at 87 2.000055) 18
“Coupon Scholarships” ......5 00.222 18
New Book by Davis ..............ccccceeeeeeeees Sela ene 20
William M. Hinton, 1907-1979 .........ccc ccc eeceeeeeee 21
“The W&L Ideal” by James G. Leyburn... Ze
Chapter News (25. 25
Class Notes 6...002.55. 28
In’ Menforiait 0 A eee 38

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee Unuwersity Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

A
a
i

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

EpwIn J. FoLtz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

WILLIAM P. BOARDMAN, 63, Columbus, Ohio
Vice President

RICHARD A. DEnNNy, 752, Atlanta, Ga.
Treasurer

WILLIAM C. WASHBURN, '40, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

Leroy C. ATKINS, ’68, Lexington, Va.
Assistant Secretary

W. DONALD Bain, ’49, Spartanburg, S. C.
PuHiLip R. CAMPBELL, 757, Tulsa, Okla.
SAMUEL C. DUDLEY, 58, Richmond, Va.
JAMES F. GALLIVAN, ’51, Nashville, Tenn.
JoHN H. McCormack Jr., 50, Jacksonville, Fla.
WILLIAM B. OGILVIE, 64, Houston, Texas
PAUL E. SANDERS, 43, White Plains, N. Y.

ROBERT M. Wuite II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.

 

ON THE COVER: The unusual photograph by Sally
Mann on the front cover suggests the celerity with which
1,700 volunteers completed the transfer of 140,000
books from old McCormick into the University’s new
undergraduate library. They were speedy. Instead of the
seven hours predicted, the job took just two and one-half
hours. One of the most ebullient participants was Rupert
Latture, shown on the back cover in the full regalia for
the “Great Move.” Mr. Latture recently turned 87 and is
in his 68th year of service to W&L. His latest article on a
sidelight of the University’s history—and a brief sketch to
show that even if little else in life stays constant, at least
Rupert Latture does—is on page 18.

 

 

 

”

 

SN

Seventeen hundred volunteers moved across the new back campus mall from old McCormick into new library (shown below, viewed from Tucker Hall).

Photographs by Sally M ann jand Esther Burns

THE NEW LIBRARY

‘Triumphant “Great Move’ Marks Opening of W&L’s Newest, Biggest Building

The University moved into its new 130,000-square-foot,
$9.2-million undergraduate library in January. The building,
under construction since mid-1976 on the central back
campus, is almost four times the size of the old library,
McCormick, and is the largest building at Washington and
Lee.

The new facility, which has not been named, has study
space for 800 students, about 60 percent of the
undergraduate student body, with 600 individual carrels
located throughout the four levels of stacks, enabling
students working on particular projects to have their own
undisturbed work areas where the books they need are
actually shelved.

There are also seminar rooms throughout the building
and numerous private offices which faculty members and
honors students may reserve for a term at a time.

The new library is open 24 hours a day.

The library has the capacity to accept every technological
innovation currently known or anticipated, including
computerized information retrieval.

The building has a capacity of 500,000 volumes. The
University’s undergraduate library collection currently

 

 

THE GREAT MOVE

consists of 370,000 volumes, but some of those books are
located in separate departmental libraries in journalism and
the natural sciences.

The periodicals area in the new library has space for
current issues of 1,500 publications.

The reference room can accommodate 10,000 volumes.
The special collections area—where rare books, the
University archives, and similar resources are kept—has a
large reading room and display area for 2,500 volumes.

There are soundproof typing and music-listening rooms
throughout the building.

The library also has a 100-seat auditorium.

The building is located immediately behind Washington
Hall, and was situated so as to become “the physical as well as
the intellectual hub of the campus,” the University notes.

The new library has long been badly needed. McCormick
was renovated and enlarged to its site limit in 1941 and could
be expanded no further.

But since then, the number of holdings had grown by
more than 300 percent; the size of the undergraduate

  
 
 
  
 
  
 
  

 

student body had doubled; the curriculum had expanded
from 291 courses to more than 760. McCormick’s shelves
were 95 percent full, and W&L even had to rent a warehouse
to store some of its books. (A college library is considered to
be at maximum efficiency when its shelves are 75 percent
full.) Further, McCormick was structurally incapable of being
equipped in any satisfactory way to accept new electronic and
technological developments which could not have been
foreseen in the 1940s.

Thirteen years ago, in its accreditation report, Washington
and Lee acknowledged that the space problem in McCormick
was “critical.” Planning for the new building began almost
immediately, and the new library became the largest capital
project in Washington and Lee’s Development Program for
the Decade of the 70s.

The final stages of the move from old McCormick to the
new library were a community-wide effort—with alumni and
townspeople joining the W&L student body and faculty in
carrying 140,000 books to the proper shelf areas in the new
facility.

Left: Head Librarian Maurice D. Leach (at
right in photo) and Stephen L. Mangan, senior
from New Britain, Conn., chairman of the
Library Move Committee, were clearly pleased.

Bottom left: Taking a break during the move is
T-shirted toiler President Huntley.

Below: Leach greets a library staff member of
long ago, Miss Elinor Pendleton Gadsden, now
92, who was on hand for the occasion.

“y

The time: Mid-morning on the day of the “Great Move.”
The place: Old McCormick Library.

“Excuse me,” a newly arrived volunteer says. “I’m looking
for the 5-A’s.”

“This is the line,” a student says agreeably.

“Good. Where do I pick up my shopping bags?”

“Inside. But you don’t think you’re going to make nine
trips now, do you?”

“This is going to continue ’til 3 or 4 this afternoon—sure
I'll make my quota.”

An interruption from the lobby of McCormick. “Attention
please. Attention/—thank you. All 4-B’s will now become
5-A’s. There are no more books on the fourth level.”

“And you haven’t made one trip yet?”

Fade out. The Great Move was clearly not meant for
10-o’clock scholars. |

But who would have thought that 140,000 books—close to
half of Washington and Lee’s undergraduate library
collection—would be moved in 2% hours? Even the most
optimistic University officials had expected it to take at least

9

 

seven, and that depended on 1,000 volunteers. (A
professional crew would have taken 10 days and charged an
estimated $60,000.)

What happened to the University’s reckoning was that
1,700 volunteers showed up instead of 1,000. The Great
Move was precisely that—great; glorious.

They came—seventeen hundred students, teachers,
administrators, alumni from all over Virginia, and hundreds
of townspeople—insulated against subfreezing temperatures
with down jackets, wearing layers and layers of coats, scarves,
sweaters and hats. They moved one by one into the old
library, talking to people nearby, shouting to friends and
neighbors in earshot.

Once inside, they moved up the stairs to individually
assigned stack levels and removed two 12-inch slices of books
at a time, placing each into a big Leggett bag (trustee Gordon
Leggett, ’54, happens to be vice president for public relations
of the department-store chain that bears his family name,
and he saw to it that the 2,000 bags the move required would
carry the Leggett name and emblem). Each group of books

   
  
 
  
  
 
  

Top left: Samuel L. Sanderson, ’22, toted his
share.

Above: The old basketball arena in old
Doremus Gymnasium was the command post
where volunteers received their precise assign-
ments.

Left: A student takes a section of books from
old McCormick. There were more than 10,000
“sets” of books marked off in groups for the
move.

THE GREAT MOVE

was marked off by a color-coded computer card that directed
the volunteer to a particular floor, “range,” section and shelf
in the new library, a hundred or so yards away. Each carrier
followed an assigned path to the new building and put the
books, in order, in the proper space. Simple. And indeed it
was.

Everyone was impressed by the smoothness of the
operation. (For those who are totally helpless when it comes
to dealing with the points of the compass and who therefore
find the simplest, clearest directions more confusing than a
chart for nuclear physics, there even were friendly, patient
traffic monitors everywhere along the routes.)

The library was open for business that very afternoon.
Some townspeople who had planned to begin work around
lunchtime arrived to begin their labors but found students
studying in the new building instead.

“Overwhelming,” said Maurice D. Leach Jr., W&L’s
jubilant head librarian, when it was over.

Margaret Williams of the library staff was the guiding
force behind the Great Move, responsible for all the logistics

 

 

of the undertaking from the day planning began early in the
fall. In a resolution adopted at its February meeting, the
faculty, not famous for rash overstatement, confessed its
“admiration and appreciation” for her meticulous planning
and execution of the task—a sentiment endorsed by
everyone who had taken part in the move. The library
“triumph,” the faculty waxed, “became the University’s own,”
and “will ever stand among the most exhilarating
experiences in Washington and Lee’s long history.”

Tom Mattesky, a reporter for WDBJ-TV in Roanoke (who
happens to be a graduate of the W&L journalism
department), said on the news that evening: “The two
generals for whom the University is named would have been
impressed by the organization and orderliness of it all.”

The Great Move was more than just an achievement of
planning and preparation. It was a community-wide effort of
goodwill. Many townspeople worked the day of the move
and many others had been involved in the preliminary work—
taking inventory of the books in the old building, assembling
shelves in the new library, and helping transport the

Top left: A specially constructed temporary
ramp from the second story of old McCormick
allowed workers to head for the new building
without running into workers returning for
new loads.

Above: Workers go in and out of the new Ii-
brary; those in the top of the photo are using
the “bridge” leading to the back campus.

Far left: Leggett Department Stores supplied
2,000 sacks for the “Great Move.”

Left: Robert L. Carson of Lexington brought a
backpack-hamper so as to be able to carry
several loads at a time.

 

University’s rare books, archives, and special collections
during the Christmas holiday.

The point of involving W&L and townspeople alike in the
move was to provide a way for them to acquire immediate,
first-hand familiarity with the new library, Head Librarian
Leach said—and to give them a personal stake in it. One
reason townspeople responded so well is that in Lexington, a
small college town, W&L looms large—and the University
has always made its library resources fully available to
residents of the area. A quarter of the W&L library’s book
circulation and a quarter of the reference questions the
staff is asked come from people in town who have no direct
connection with the University—and the town appreciates it.

To help encourage the volunteer turnout, the University
provided snacks throughout the day and a roast-beef-
sandwich lunch in the new building. Area businesses
supplied premiums which were awarded by lottery
throughout the day. Also awarded were T-shirts with a
distinctive emblem noting “The Great Move,” and every
participant received a plastic cup commemorating the

 
  
 
  
 
  
  

Below: At party in vacated McCormick, Li-
brarian Leach celebrates with a bottle of “Eau
du New Library.”

Right: After a morning of furiously paced
work, students found the reading room—and
everything else—in old McCormick bare.

Bottom right: Diligent (and lucky) workers
wore T-shirts which were awarded by lottery

throughout the day. f

 

occasion.

The faculty cancelled undergraduate classes so students
could participate fully. Of no small importance, too, was the
prospect of the huge party the University gave in the old
library after the work was completed—with two live bands
and 40 kegs of beer. The original plan was that one would
have to carry 18 loads of books to receive a ticket to the
party. But when the move was completed before noon, with
vast numbers of people still wanting to make trips but no
books left to carry, the Move Committee decided to celebrate
by opening the party to everybody who had worked at all.

The party was a psychological reminder that venerable old
McCormick, the University’s library for 73 years, was closing
its doors—for the time being. (As reported elsewhere in this
issue of the magazine, McCormick will be transformed over
the next year and a half into a new home of the School of
Commerce, Economics and Politics.)

Even before the party, though, the verdict was in. “It was
the social event of the year,” one Lexington resident said.
“Better even than V-J Day!”

 

 

Cyt

Photographs by Sally Mann

SHE MOVED IT

Tracing the Steps of a ‘Great Mover’

One of the most enthusiastic volunteer workers was Mrs.
Malcom D. Campbell Jr. of Lexington, whose late husband
graduated from W&L in 1932. She was among the first to
arrive in the morning, and stuck it out through the post-move
party that night. Sally Mann, the University’s chief photo-
grapher, followed Gillie Campbell and recorded her day’s
work—and fun—in this picture essay for the Alumni
Magazine.

 

Wu

 

ees

2. ... Mrs. Campbell became a “3-B” mover.

 

l. Receiving her assignment in the gym, ,

3. From the gym...

 

Ij

Wenabipiiie, BE sre
Boa pans tenorannins ne Geewene

senoniie

  

4, ... across the back campus . . .

 

. First, pick up a shopping bag.

. ... 0 the back of old McCormick.

- Down one of the 3-B stacks in McCormick.

 

 

 

 

10. Take them off the old shelf, keeping them

in order.

 

13. ... up the 3-B ramp into the new library.

 

12. ... across the new driveway behind Reid
Hall...

 

14. Sally Wiant, head librarian in the School of Law, gives traffic guidance.

 

15. And onto the proper shelf in the new library
goes the bagful of books.

 

Then, in the elevator, Mrs. Campbell greets
Dr. John M. Evans of the English department.

 

19. Out the front door and across the little bridge, |
back to McCormick for yet another load of
books, if any are still left.

21. And, that night at the gala party in empty

old McCormick, a quaff of something cold —
and frothy to celebrate the achievements of _
a memorable day. :

 

 

18. |... notes that Mrs. Campbell’s work was
appreciated.

 

 

20. Roast beef sandurches with a group of fellow workers—students and their date

s—in the new building.

NEW HOME FOR COMMERCE

$3.5-Million Renovation of McCormick Library Is Under Way

The University has begun a $3.5-
million, 18-month project to renovate
and completely remodel the vacated
Cyrus Hall McCormick Library building
to become the new home of the School
of Commerce, Economics and Politics.

W&L moved from 73-year-old
McCormick into the new undergraduate
library building in January, as reported
elsewhere in this issue of the alumni
magazine.

McCormick will provide more than
three times as much usable space for the
commerce school as Newcomb Hall—
37,545 square feet, vs. 11,542. The
commerce division has been located in
Newcomb ever since it was established in
1906 as the School of Commerce and
Administration.

The “new” commerce facility will have
seven classrooms, including two
auditorium-like “conference
classrooms,” one seating 80 and the
other 50; three seminar rooms; several
studies, and offices for 23 faculty
members, the dean, and staff.

The reading room in old McCormick
will be kept as the library and reading
room in the commerce school. Current
professional periodicals and reference
and research volumes will supplement
the main commerce collection, which
was moved into the new undergraduate
library.

In addition to considerable seating
capacity in the commerce library room,
there will be two nearby rooms of
student carrels. McCormick will also
have a separate room for data-
processing terminals linked to W&L’s
new computer. There will be lounges for
both faculty and students.

The central section of the building
will have three stories after the
remodeling, replacing five levels of
former book stacks.

The exterior of McCormick will not
be changed, but the area around it will
be extensively landscaped, and the new
mall which is being developed across
W&L’s back campus will be extended to
link McCormick with Reid Hall, the new
library, and Parmly Hall (the “new”
science building) and with the back of

10

 

McCormick Library is being renovated to house the
School of Commerce, Economics and Politics.

the Colonnade. The mall is named for
John M. Stemmons of Dallas, the W&L
alumnus and trustee emeritus who was
chairman of the first portion of the
University’s decade-long development
program for the decade of the 1970s.

As part of the McCormick project,
extensive additional sitework will also be
undertaken, including redevelopment of
parking on the House Mountain side of
McCormick and landscaping on the
Front Campus side of the building,
around the ODK Circle.

Newcomb has long been too small and
outmoded for W&L’s commerce
program—even before the nationwide
surge in the numbers of students taking
business-related majors and elective
courses.

(At Washington and Lee, two social
sclences—politics and economics—are
physically and administratively included
in the commerce school.)

The commerce division was given full
use of Newcomb in 1936 when a major
renovation of the Colonnade buildings
took place and administrative offices
were moved from that building to
Washington Hall. At that time, the
commerce school enrolled 163 students,
had a faculty of 11, and offered 42
courses.

The full-time commerce faculty now
numbers 20. This year, 72 different
courses are actually being taught. And

for the past five years, the average
number of students enrolled as majors
in the commerce school has been 298.
(The figure this year is 315.)

In 1978, business administration was
the major taken by the largest single
number of graduating students at the
University (40 majors). Economics (with
35), accounting (30), and politics (28)
were the third, fourth, and fifth most
popular majors.

In all, 45 percent of W&L’s 1978 B.A.
and B.S. graduates took their degrees in
the commerce school. Approximately
the same percentage is expected again
this year.

Marcellus Wright, Cox & Ladd, of
Richmond, is the University’s
architectural firm for the McCormick
project. The same firm designed not
only the new library but also Lewis Hall,
the $9-million law facility completed in
1976.

Bass Construction Co., also of
Richmond, will be the general contractor
for the McCormick renovation. Bass was
W&lL’s agent for the library, and
University officials say they were
impressed with both the quality of the
contractor’s work and the construction
schedule Bass observed on that project.
(The library was completed six months
ahead of the original schedule, and costs
were kept at or slightly below estimates.)

McCormick is actually two buildings—
one inside the other. The central section
was built in 1906, and the library was
named for Andrew Carnegie. In 1941 it
was remodeled and enlarged, by
constructing a new building around the
walls of Carnegie. It was then renamed
for Cyrus McCormick, the Rockbridge
County native who invented the reaper.
McCormick was a trustee and important
benefactor of Washington and Lee
following the Civil War.

After the commerce school moves into
McCormick in mid- or late 1980,
Newcomb will be renovated to
accommodate undergraduate
departments in the liberal arts and
sciences, which are similarly
overcrowded and scattered in various
buildings on the Colonnade.

  
   
   
  

STUDY | OFFICE

 

   

OFFICE

OFFICE | OFF
CLASSROOM Ice

 

enc| OFFICE |

    
   
 

 

 

OFFICE | prsacdesnemmnel
- OFFICE
OBSER ae OFFICE || ]
. | DATA PROCESSING RM, | OFFICE
i OFFICE || |

MECHANICAL EQUIPMENT

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tl OFFICE
FACULTY LOUNGE —
ies Orrick
orice || Abaco
STUDENT LOUNGE
OFFICE
OFFICE |
CLASSROOM
ae CLASSROOM
ll cUusT, SEMINAR |||
a SUPPLY
== AV EQUIPMENT
ey aoa
THIRD FLOOR PLAN
a s +8 &

FIRST FLOOR PLAN

  
  

 

 

 

 

SITE PLAN
OFFICE |
OFFICE !
— e e
ey |Z
PROJ, S
SEMINAR RM TES hs OFFICE |
tk: 1 :
Le q
at \ 2 |
LIBRARY-READING CONFERENCE-CLASSROOM | a as
C] '
Ci

DORMITORIES

     

PAYNE WASHINGTON ROBINSON
HALL HALL HALL

 

YM

 

 

oy |
}— nag a SECRETARY = |
sny snr | NEW COMMERCE SCHOOL

The floor plans, building sections, and site plan on this

page indicate how the now-vacant McCormick Library
o will be renovated and refurbished to house the School
of Commerce, Economics and Politics.

 

 

SECOND FLOOR PLAN

 
     
 

RM.

CONFERENCE-CLASSROOM DATA PROCESSING

LIBRARY-READING

CUSTODIAN

 

BUILDING SECTION

BUILDING SECTION

1]

 

GAZETTE

Robert A. Fulwiler Jr.

Robert A. Fulwiler Jr., ’25, assistant
general counsel of Hercules Powder Co.,
Fred O. Funkhouser, ’34, chairman of
the board of United Virginia Bank of
Spottswood, and J. Sanford Doughty,
associate development director at W&L
from 1970 to 1976, were “tapped” into
honorary membership in Omicron Delta
Kappa during the Founders’ Day
Convocation in January.

ODK is the national honor society for
leadership. It was founded at
Washington and Lee 65 years ago, and
now has chapters on the campuses of
more than 160 colleges and universities.

Five law students and 18 under-
graduates were also “tapped” into ODK
membership.

Dr. James Graham Leyburn, the
eminent sociologist and social historian
who was dean of the University from
1947 until 1954 and professor of
sociology until his retirement in 1973,
was the principal Founders’ Day/ODK
speaker. The text of his remarkable
address is printed elsewhere in this issue
of the magazine.

After graduation from W&L, Fulwiler
earned his law degree from Harvard.
He has been associated with Hercules
Powder Co. of Radford, Va., since 1966.

Funkhouser is a past president of the
Virginia Industrial Bankers Association
and past president of the Stuart Hall
Foundation of Staunton. He joined
United Virginia Bank of Spottswood in
1953.

12

 

 

J. Sanford Doughty

Doughty received his bachelor’s
degree from Williams and his M.B.A.
from Harvard. Before joining the W&L
development staff he was development
director at Lake Forest (Ill.) College, and
prior to that was manager of advertising
and public relations for Container
Corporation of America. He is retired in
Lexington.

The undergraduate seniors inducted
into membership in ODK’s Alpha
Chapter are John C. Bovay of Lakeland,
Fla. (an accounting major), member of
the Student Recruitment Committee and
former member of the student
Executive Committee; Robert M.
Burkholder Jr. of Lebanon, Pa.
(politics), president of Pi Sigma Alpha,
the honor society in politics, and co-
chairman of the Fellowship of Christian
Athletes; Robert A. Calvert of
Lynchburg (history and art), member of
the student E.C. and former class
president;

Also, James O. Davis III of ‘Tampa
(English), president of the
Interfraternity Council; David A.
Hamra of Charlton Heights,
W.Va.(economics), co-chairman of the
University Council, which is delegated
by the faculty to act in many non-
curricular areas; Harry F. Hoke III of
Richmond (mathematics and physics),
captain of the swimming team and
former class president;

John E. Jacobsen of Washington, D.C.
(English and drama), officer and

ODK ‘Taps’ Two Alumni, 23 Students, and Former University Official

 

Fred O. Funkhouser

student director of the University
Theatre; Freeman E. Jones of
Richmond (American history), president
of the senior class, former class vice
president; Parker B. Potter Jr. of
Bexley, Ohio (English and French),
president of the Publications Board and
editor last year of Ariel, the student
literary magazine;

James R. Shoemaker of Frederick,
Md. (English), editor of Arzel this year;
William T. Thistlethwaite of
Washington, D.C. (biology), co-chairman
of the Student Recruitment Committee
and assistant head dormitory counselor;
Michael F. Wenke of Glendolen,

Pa. (psychology), captain of the
basketball team and student director of
intramurals; and Richard B. Wiles of
Danville, Va. (physics and engineering),
Most Valuable Player on the football
team and co-captain of the basketball
team.

Undergraduate juniors elected to
ODK membership are David E. Costine
III of Richmond (European history),
vice president of his class last year and
this year; P. Craig Cornett of Camp
Springs, Md. (politics and economics),
president of the University Federation,
W&L’s service society, and co-chairman
of the 1980 Mock Republican
Convention; Leslie A. Cotter Jr. of
Columbia, S.C. (economics), president of
his class this year and last year and a
Mock Convention steering committee
member; Singleton D. Keesler Jr. of

 

 

 

Charlotte, N.C. (English and German),
member of the student E.C., the
University Council, and the I.F.C.; and
William M. Matthai Jr. of Baltimore
(chemistry and independent major in
mathematics and the natural sciences as
well), first in his class academically and
dormitory counselor.

Law students “tapped” were Waller T.
(Beau) Dudley, of Alexandria, Va.,
president of the student body and a
captain of the W&L National Moot
Court Team; Richard P. Goddard of
Mishawaka, Ind., former member of the
student E.C. and currently research
editor of the Law Review; John Thomas
Jessee of Princeton, W.Va., Burks
Scholar in law and a captain of the
National Moot Court Team; Jessine
Monaghan of Garden City, N.Y., a
Burks Scholar and president of the
Women Law Students’ Organization;
and John F. Murphy of Metuchen, N.J.,
a Burks Scholar, contributor to the Law
Review, and semi-finalist in the National
Moot Court Competition.

 

 

New film society
focuses on ‘quality’ movies

A new film society, dedicated to
sas é bik.

providing “an alternative to the kinds of
movies shown by area commercial
theatres and other campus film?
organizations,” was formed at
Washington and Lee in October, and
made good on its promise in its first
three months by presenting Ingmar
Bergman’s acclaimed Cries and Whispers;
a West German thriller, Chinese Roulette;
another West German film, a serious
character study-cum-thriller, The
American Friend; and a classic 1960
French comedy, Zazie.

The W&L Film Society is supported
largely by a grant from the Arthur and
Margaret Glasgow Endowment Fund
and through private contributions.
Leaders of the organization are Dr.
Carren Kaston, assistant professor of
English who teaches courses in film as
literature, and Jay A. Diesing, a
sophomore from Poughkeepsie, N.Y. All
the films presented by the society are
shown free of charge to the public.

 

 

Faculty activity

The Civil War letters of a prominent
Lexingtonian and 19th-century
Washington and Lee University official,

 

Dr. Gerard Maurice Doyon

Col. J. K. Edmondson, have been
collected and edited by Dr. Charles W.
Turner, professor of history. The book
is My Dear Emma: War Letters of James K.
Edmondson, 1861-65, and is the sixth in a
series of Rockbridge histories ‘Turner
has written or edited in recent years.
Edmondson was a Washington College
graduate who fought with the Stonewall
Brigade; after the war he was elected
mayor of Lexington and judge of the
local court. He was treasurer of the
college from 1865 until 1868 and was
secretary of the Board of Trustees from
1870 until 1898. “Emma” was his wife
Emily, whom he married in 1856.

Dr. Gerard Maurice Doyon, professor
of art history, is the new director of the
University Center In Virginia’s atelier in
Paris—an art and music studio located
on the right bank of the Seine, available
for use by faculty members from the

University Center’s 15 member
institutions. Doyon will direct the atelier
operations while remaining a full-time
faculty member at Washington and Lee.

Dr. I. Taylor Sanders II, associate
professor of history and W&L’s official
historian, was the speaker at Lee-
Jackson Day ceremonies in Staunton this
winter. Sanders told his audience—
composed of civic club members from
throughout western Virginia—that at a
time when the concepts of “duty and
honor have been debased at the highest
levels of government,” Americans ought
to turn to the example of Robert E. Lee
“and study him, and learn from him
what it meant to be a great Victorian
gentleman.”

Dr. John M. McDaniel, assistant
professor of anthropology and director
of the Liberty Hall archaeological
excavation, was chairman of a session on
academic sites in January at the annual
conference of the Society for Historical
Archaeology. This was the first year that
academic sites have commanded the
attention of that scholarly organization,
McDaniel said, and he credits the five-
year-old Liberty Hall project with giving
“legitimacy” to the topic.

 

 

Freshmen choose law,
business, medicine—again

Law, business and medicine, in that
order, are the leading career choices of
this year’s Washington and Lee
freshmen, according to results of a
survey taken in September by the
American Council on Education (ACE).

A quarter of the freshmen—25.2

 

W&L Board member John W. War-
ner, 49, was sworn in as the new U.S.
Senator from Virginia Jan. 2 in a cere-
mony in Richmond. He had been elec-
ted in November in perhaps the closest
election in Virginia history.

Warner’s first day in Washington—
Jan. 3—was described by Richmond
Times-Dispatch Washington columnist
Charles R. McDowell Jr., 48: “Begin-
ning Senators tend not to complain
about [being assigned offices “on a back
corridor, pretty far from the elevator
and without much of a view”]. They
are too pleased just to be in the institu-
tion. They spend their first days getting
deferred to by just about everybody

 

The Senator is new; the subway 1s old hat

around the Capitol, selecting a per-
sonal staff that will be paid an aggregate
up to about $700,000 annually, learning
about their allowances for supplies and
computer terminals and branch offices,
petitioning their party leaders for
choice committee assignments, and
maybe catching the little subway train
to the Senate chamber where they will
officially take the oath on Jan. 15 and
officially become statesmen.

“Warner did a little of all that yester-
day, and did it with considerable charm
and grace. He had worked around here
before, as secretary of the Navy and
head of the Bicentennial, and he knows
his way to the subway.”

 

 

13

 

percent—said they intend to become
lawyers. By way of comparison, the
national average for male freshmen at
undergraduate colleges was only 6.5
percent.

A fifth of the freshmen—20.3
percent—said they plan to enter
business. The national men’s percentage
was 16.0.

Medicine was named as their career
choice by 16.4 percent of W&L’s 1978
freshmen, compared with 6.4 percent
nationally.

The statistics are taken from survey
data released in January by the acre. The
survey encompassed freshmen at 254
other four-year colleges across the
nation in addition to Washington and
Lee.

Law, business, and medicine have
been the top career choices among
Washington and Lee freshmen in every
recent ACE survey. This year, however,
the figure for law dropped from its
usual 30-to-35-percent level, and the
proportion of freshmen who said they
were “undecided” on a career rose to
16.4 percent in 1978 from the previous
year’s 11.1 percent.

The drop can probably be attributed
to widespread national publicity in
recent years about the overabundance of
lawyers in the job market, W&L officials
say. The University noted that even with
the drop, the figure for W&L is four
times the national men’s average.

The figures for business and
medicine among Washington and Lee
freshmen this year were virtually
identical to the W&L figures in those
categories for each recent year in the
annual ACE surveys.

Washington and Lee’s “strong
academic reputation” was named by 86.5
percent of the 1978 freshmen as a “very
important reason” in deciding to attend
W&L. (Only 50.7 percent nationally
included that as one of their “very
important reasons” in choosing a
college.)

As they always have, Washington and
Lee freshmen again this year
characterized themselves as political
conservatives in far greater proportion
than did their peers elsewhere—39. 1
percent at W&L, almost twice the 20.9
percent figure among male freshmen in
the 254 other colleges surveyed. And
only 11.8 percent at W&L said they
regard themselves as liberals, less than
half the 23.9-percent national figure.

The AcE survey included a large
number of questions on individual social
attitudes, and Washington and Lee’s
freshmen took a laissez-faire, “keep-

14

government-out” attitude toward all of
them. Combined with their self-
professed conservatism, that seems to
indicate a generally libertarian attitude
among W&L’s class of 1982, observers in
the media and on campus agreed.

 

 

Two appointments in
Lewis Hall library

Lynn Wishart, a member of the
Washington University (St. Louis) law
library staff since 1971, and Nan
Elizabeth Smith, a 1978 librarianship
graduate of Emory University, have
been named to the professional staff in

 

Lynn Wishart

Nan Elizabeth Smith

the Wilbur C. Hall Library of the law
school.

Ms. Wishart is the W&L law library’s
new associate librarian. She is a political
science graduate of West Virginia

 

 

University who holds her library degree
from the University of Michigan and
her law degree from Washington in St.
Louis.

Ms. Smith received her
undergraduate degree from Smith
College before enrolling at Emory,
where she was a library assistant while
working toward her graduate degree.

 

 

Journalism workshop
attracts 85 high-schoolers

More than 85 secondary-school
students from western and central
Virginia took part in a journalism
workshop sponsored by the Department
of Journalism and Communications in
December and by the campus chapter of
the professional journalists’ organization
Sigma Delta Chi.

Hampden H. Smith III, assistant
professor of journalism and former
assistant city editor of the Richmond

News Leader, organized the day-long

series and spoke to the students on the
topic “Accuracy and Precision: The
Journalist’s Guideposts.” Clark R.
Mollenhoff, professor of journalism and
Pulitzer Prize-winning investigative
reporter, spoke on “The First-
Amendment Responsibilities of the
Press.”

In addition, a number of professional
newsmen from the area conducted small
panel discussions on such topics as
editing and makeup, sportswriting,
feature writing, editorial writing, basic
reporting techniques, and newspaper
business management.

 

 

Lewis Hall landscaping
receives architects’ award

Lewis Hall, the University’s new law
building, received the 1978 “Merit
Award” of the Pennsylvania-Delaware

 

Mrs. John G. Boatwright of Danville,
Va., a generous benefactor of Wash-
ington and Lee for many years, died
Dec. 19.

She was chairman of the board of
Carter Glass & Sons Inc. of Lynchburg,
publishers of the Lynchburg Daily News
and Advance. Her husband, who sur-
vives her, is a member of W&L’s class

 

Mrs. John G. Boatwright, benefactor of W&L

of 1915. Their son, the late Robert Mc-
Dearmon Boatwright, was a 1942 B.A.
graduate.

In 1971, the Boatwright Fund for
special library collections at W&L was
established in memory of Robert Boat-
wright, and Mrs. Boatwright was a
generous supporter of that endow-

ment.

 

 

 

 

 

 

chapter of the American Society of
Landscape Architects for “improving the
quality of man’s environment.”

The Lewis Hall landscaping was the
design work of GWSM Inc. of
Pittsburgh, formerly Griswold, Winters,
Swain & Mullen. That firm, through W.
Thomas Borellis, its associate who is
Washington and Lee’s principal
landscape planner, has also designed
most of the rest of W&L’s landscape
projects throughout the 1970s, including
those at the new undergraduate library,
near Lee Chapel, by the Warner Center
gymnasium complex, and at the old
McCormick Library, currently being
renovated and remodeled for the School
of Commerce, Economics and Politics.

 

 

The fine arts at W&L

The Gemini Trio (formerly called the
Amata Trio) presented a concert of
works by Bach, Brahms, Berg,
Stravinsky, Messiain and Prokofiev in
the forms of solos, duets and trios on
piano, flute and clarinet.

Baritone Gerald Crawford, associate
professor of music in applied voice at
Western Illinois University, presented a
program of works by Mozart,
Schumann, Rorem and Ives.

The University Theatre opened its
current season with a production of
Otherwise Engaged, a two-act
psychological drama by British
playwright Simon Gray. The production
was directed by drama major John

Inner courtyard as viewed through a window of Lewis Hall

 

Jacobsen as his senior project.

Ibsen’s A Doll’s House was presented in
the round, and was directed by Dr.
Albert C. Gordon, head of the fine arts
department and professor of theatre.

The third major production of the
season was Shakespeare’s The Taming
of the Shrew, directed by senior drama
major Hunt Brown in February.

A Japanese actor and teacher, Akira
Matsul, was in residence at W&L fora
week this winter under the auspices of
the Glasgow Endowment. Matsui,
founder of schools in Wakayama and

 

Akira Matsui conducts a workshop in Noh drama.

Tokyo dedicated to training performers
in the classic conventions of Japanese
acting, conducted a five-day workshop
in that dramatic form, known as Noh
drama.

Exhibitions in the University’s duPont
Gallery have included:

Sculpture by H. I. Gates, a member of
the studio art faculty at George
Washington University in Washington,
D.C., in a W&L show organized by Dr.
and Mrs. Jacob Weinstein, friends and
patrons of the University’s art
department for a number of years;

Sculpture by Jacob Epstein from the
collection of the Museum of African Art
in Washington, sponsored by the
Smithsonian Institution;

Paintings and prints by Chinese artist
Liao Shiou-Ping;

Prints by a 1975 Washington and Lee
graduate, Turner McGehee, a former
student of the University’s artist-in-
residence, I-Hsiung Ju, and currently a
graduate student in etching and
lithography at the University of North
Carolina (Greensboro).

 

 

Another fraternity at W&L

Washington and Lee has a new social
fraternity—the University’s 16th.

Chi Psi, a national fraternity founded
in 1841, expects to establish its
permanent W&L home in the old Ann
Smith School building at the corner of
Nelson Street and Lee Avenue, across

15

from the post office and adjacent to the
W&L Student Center at the southeast
edge of the campus

Chi Psi formed at Washington and
Lee in 1976. It has chapters at 30 other
colleges throughout the country.

Washington and Lee bought the
abandoned Ann Smith building for
$130,000 from the city in December on
Chi Psi’s behalf. The fraternity plans to
renovate it extensively.

No timetable has been set for the
fraternity’s occupying the building. In
the meantime, Chi Psi has temporary
headquarters in one of the University’s
Wood’s Creek Apartment buildings
behind the main campus.

 

 

W&L’s Lafayette featured
at Washington Antiques Show

Washington and Lee’s famous portrait
of the Marquis de Lafayette, painted in
1779 by Charles Willson Peale as a
companion piece to his earlier portrait
of George Washington, was the principal
exhibition loan item at the annual
Washington, D.C., Antiques Show in
January.

The painting was also reproduced in
color on the cover of the catalogue of
the exhibition, which is regarded as one

by Milton Colvin

Professor of Politics

I had not been in England for thirty-
four years. In December 1944, I was
wounded in Belgium and was flown to
London. I remember asking a flight
nurse for a pen, and I carefully wrote
the word “very” in front of “seriously
wounded” on a tag attached to my
jacket.

Now I was on sabbatical from
Washington and Lee and was going to
Oxford under our exchange program
with University College of Oxford. My
arrival this time was altogether differ-
ent. I was not being carried on a
stretcher. I walked energetically down
the ramp with my wife and youngest
daughter at my side.

Oxford would offer me the research
resources I needed for a book I am
writing, and what Oxford could not
provide I could find in London. It all
turned out to be a rewarding experi-
ence, thanks in part to Dr. David Bell

 

16

of the three most important antique
shows in the east. The theme of the
exhibition this year was Lafayette
Square, the park located across
Pennsylvania Avenue from the White
House.

Washington and Lee had also
supplied the central theme exhibition
for last year’s Washington Antiques
Show—the Reeves Collection of Chinese
export porcelain.

George Washington commissioned
Peale to paint the portrait of his
Revolutionary War ally. Peale had
painted Washington’s own portrait, the
first ever made of Washington from life,
seven years before. W&L also owns that
portrait, which was itself shown in the
nation’s capital in 1974 as the central
work of art in the National Portrait
Gallery’s Bicentennial exhibition “In the
Minds and Hearts of the People.”

 

 

Why Frank Parsons
hasn’t any hair left

All those best-laid schemes for the
Great Move nearly all went a-gley when
the company supplying shelving for the
new library was hit with a strike late in
October.

The Andrew Wilson Co. of Lawrence,

 

Dr. Colvin on the Ridgeway near the site of the
famous White Horse, Uffington Castle, Berks

of University College, the Oxford geo-
logist who spent a term at Washington

Mass., informed the University on the
first of November that a work stoppage
had occurred and that the Nov. 6
delivery date for the initial shipments
couldn’t be met. As it turned out, the
strike lasted just two weeks—but its
impact delayed the arrival of the first
shelf units until Dec. 18

High anxiety prevailed in Lexington.
Postponement of the Jan. 10 moving
date was quickly ruled out, and
everyone concentrated instead on
overcoming the delays and problems
introduced by the Wilson situation.

As important as Jan. 10 was in the
overall planning, Dec. 18 was a closer
critical date, because the actual moving
of books from McCormick to the new
building was scheduled to begin then.
Head Librarian Maurice Leach had
hired 27 students and others to work
during the Christmas vacation, and
W&L’s Buildings and Grounds
Department had committed a crew of 10
and two trucks just to'‘move the fragile
Special Collections and other library
paraphernalia which would require
special attention in advance of the Jan.
10 public Great Move. All this planning,
of course, assumed that there would be
shelves in the new building to receive
the books.

Not to worry. Mercifully, Murphy’s
Law was somehow suspended, and in
the end, everything worked out better

A political scientist (unwounded and energetic) goes to Oxford

and Lee last year, and to L. H. (Lash)
LaRue, the W&L law professor, who
had immediately preceded me at Ox-
ford and had been favorably received.
I also owe thanks to a distant branch of
the Colvin family in England, who were
willing to accept a sketchy 18th-century
relationship as real.

Rather than recount here my per-
sonal experiences, I thought it would
be more interesting to the reader to
answer some of the questions that have
been directed to me since I returned at
Christmastime.

For instance, what kind of students
go to Oxford, and what do they do once
they are there? The first question is
easily answered: only the best go to Ox-
ford, but not all of the best. After all, a
mere two hours away on the banks of
the River Cam is Cambridge, an arch-
rival and an effective competitor. No
other British university competes with

 

than anyone had even dared dream.

With Walter C. Wilson Jr., president
of the shelf supply firm, personally
involved, the manufacturer’s promised
delivery indeed began on Dec. 18 and
more than kept pace with the progress
of installation.

The real pressure fell on Installations
Unlimited, the Richmond company
engaged by Wilson to put the shelving
units in place. Its top man, Sam
Summers, promised a herculean effort
but he couldn’t be sure he’d be able to
complete a six-week job in three weeks—
in the middle of the Christmas season to
boot. In any event, the shelf units
couldn't be braced or otherwise
“finished.” But he bent to it on Dec. 18
with his regular crew of seven,
supplemented by 10 full-time local
extras.

Summers managed to keep one jump
ahead of the McCormick movers and the
Buildings and Grounds crew. An
arrangement was worked out to permit
some of the library’s student movers to
erect shelves during any slack time they
encountered, thus giving Summers as
many as 37 workers in his force at a
time. And whenever a new truckload of
shelves pulled in from Massachusetts,
everyone pitched in to unload—
including librarians and clerical staff.

The result: Summers did tKe job in
two weeks, not three or six. Not only did

i

 

MOST PLEASING SOCIAL OBSERVATION OF
THE SECOND HALF OF THE ’70s—Girls
are dressing better than they used to.
(Alternative hypothesis: W&L men are
making even better choices than they
used to.) The phenomenon began to
be noticed more than a year ago; dili-
gent follow-up investigation by the
Alumni Magazine staff has confirmed
it. At student parties, the stevedore look
is out. Girls wear skirts, often even
dresses. They spend _ inordinate

 

Golly! What’s next? Hoop skirts?

amounts of time fixing up their hair
again, and they’ve returned to the
subtle use of makeup. They even wear
sweaters, just like in the ’60s. Pastels
predominate: pink for Sweet Briar
girls, yellow for Mary Baldwin, but
Kelly green for R-MWC. (You’re hope-
lessly out of touch if you aren’t aware
that a kind of sweater called “Fair Isle”
is in. We used to call them ski sweaters.)
The lean years are over at last for Pap-
pagallo and The Villager!

 

 

he get the 28,000 three-foot shelf units
into place on all four stack levels in the
new building, but by Jan. 10 he had
them braced as well.

The preliminary phases of the move
itself were completed a week ahead of
schedule, effectively relieving the
anxiety pains being felt in Lexington,
Richmond and Lawrence, Mass. Because
a lot of folks were willing not only to
work hard, but also to work hard at
working together, a potentially
disastrous situation was turned into a
substantial triumph that augured well
for the major success of the Great Move
itself.

Others who played important roles in
meeting the shelf crisis were John

Esserwein of Baltimore, the
manufacturer’s representative for
Wilson; James A. Arthur, W&L’s
Buildings and Grounds superintendent,
and his moving crew foreman, Herman
Huffman; plant projects director D. E.
(Pat) Brady Jr., and his assistant, Scott
Beebe; architect Frederic H. Cox Jr.,
and his interior designers Barbara
Goodwin and Anne McCrae; and Robert
Bass of Bass Construction Co., the
principal contractor, and his
superintendent, William Wiseman.

Frank Parsons, the author of this article
(and former managing editor of the Alumni
Magazine), is Assistant to the President in
charge of everything, especially problem-

solving.

 

 

ern free eee oan oe

 

Oxford quite as well as Cambridge;
however, good departments in such
places as the University of York and
London University do attract bright
students in their own right. Neverthe-
less, in the main, it is the Oxford-Cam-
bridge combination (Oxford, as the
phrase goes) that dominates the British
educational scene—with an occasional
and distant nod toward Trinity College
in Dublin.

Only those with strong academic
credentials have any chance at all of
getting into Oxford. The university has
its Own examinations, and its colleges
often ask for personal interviews. Gone
are the days when the right family con-
nections (the Royal Family aside; Prince
Charles is a graduate of Cambridge) or
great personal wealth was enough to
assure entrance. Merit alone now de-
termines that. Nearly all students are
on some kind of government grant;
therefore money is not a major prob-
lem. But if a particular college wants a
particular student, that college can
offer its own scholarship, and this is a

signal for the other colleges to keep
hands off. It is a gentleman’s agree-
ment.

Once a student enters a college
(Oxford is a conglomerate of auto-
nomous colleges), he is assigned a tutor
in his chosen field and meets with him
about once every two or three weeks.
‘This tutorial relationship is central to
his college life. Lectures are given, but
poorly attended. The student’s pro-
gress 1s determined by the work done
for his tutor, the books assigned, the
papers written, the examinations taken.
The student is on his own. He is told
what he should look for; it is up to him
to find it and master it. The system, by
our American standards, is a narrow
approach, but it offers unparalleled
Opportunity for independent study and
a wide-ranging choice for the curious
mind. In the end, the student knows
Just about everything there is to know
about his subject.

The college itself, whether it be
University College, Magdalen, or
Christ Church, is the student’s home

for the three years of his undergraduate
study and his identity with Oxford. He
may row for the college crew or play on
its rugby team. It is where he belongs
and what he defends. In the end, if he
has met all the standards of his disci-
pline, he receives his undergraduate
degree. Graduate work is offered and
doctorates are given. But it is the un-
dergraduate degree that makes a per-
son an Oxford man, specifically a Balliol
man or a Queen’s College man, etc. It
gives, at least to some, a lasting sense of
superiority over lesser mortals (al-
though graduates of equally famous
and equally ancient continental schools
are not likely to let his sense of su-
periority go uncontested).*

I went to Oxford prepared to be
impressed. And I was impressed. It
lived up to all my expectations. But it
also gave me an awareness of the value
of what we are doing at Washington
and Lee. We are not far behind Oxford,
and we are catching up.

* Professor Colvin holds a Ph.D. degree from the University
of Heidelberg, Germany, founded 600 years ago.

 

 

 

17

 

RUPERT AT 87

Hale and Hearty, Mr. Latture Remains W&L’s Essential Reference Book

Rupert Latture turned 87 years old on Jan. 18.

He celebrated by coming to work as usual.

He was at his desk in the president’s office, where he is
special advisor, at 8:30, as always, and put in a full day, as
always.

Or nearly a full day. Rupert Latture’s birthdays, and W&L
has seen plenty of them, are quasi-holidays in Washington
Hall, traditionally marked by a small celebration or three. He
enjoys them a great deal; everyone does. But mostly, he spends
even his birthdays at his typewriter—sometimes, of course,
over in the Alumni House, or in the library, or wherever else he
is taken by his work, which consists mostly of correspondence
and sorting out and interpreting W&L’s historical records, as
literally only he has the capability to do.

As everybody who knows Washington and Lee already
knows, he has spent essentially his whole adult life at the Uni-
versity, beginning when he arrived as a timid, eager freshman,
up from the outskirts of Bristol, Tenn.

‘That was nearly 68 years ago. He shows no sign of preparing
to slow down yet.

He received his B.A. degree—as class valedictorian—in 1915

and earned a master’s degree a year later, also at W&L. He
taught in Albemarle County for a year, then, when World War I
broke out, served a year with the French army, then a year
with American forces when the United States joined the war.
He returned to Virginia in 1919 to become principal of a private
academy in Patrick County, then a year later joined the political
science faculty at his alma mater. He’s been here ever since.

He retired as professor of political science in 1962 when he
reached the age of 70. His career had spanned the administra-
tions of four presidents (he’s on his fifth now). He’d spent half
his 42 W&L teaching years as head of his department. He’d
been director of freshman work since 1938, and had substituted
at various times for practically all the officers of the University,
from the registrar to the dean of students.

For Rupert Latture, though, “retirement” has had a peculiar
meaning. In practical terms it involved simply moving from
Newcomb to Washington Hall.

His abiding interest, understandably, remains Omicron
Delta Kappa, the now-national honor society he helped found
before World War I. (ODK’s “tap day” ceremonies customarily
occur in conjunction with the Founders’ Day Convocation, which

 

by Rupert N. Latture

W&L’S ‘COUPON
SCHOLARSHIPS’

They’re Still Turning Up, Raising
A Pandora’s-Boxful of Questions

 

ol a (fg ONS ss Coupon MH Be ;
oy CSUN TY WAAL ML UNG ME her : ‘%

ft. 4 a UW AALS T UM cn iillely

| , arte COLLEGE JIRGINIAD

| a/A0} mint lall litte tnd WNT wil, f

NV MM OOS SOMO SOSSOWAV AMV OL,

: hy ee UMatenite ort WIM uw ye

Y 2, the, etd. Arl . : Hivustere Un te a

   
  

oe

  
    
 

 

  
 

Not long ago the University received a letter from the direc-
tor of admissions at Way College in Emporia, Kan., enclosing a
photocopy of an 1875 scholarship certificate issued by Wash-
ington and Lee. The letter asked about the value of the certifi-
cate today.

The photocopy showed that the certificate had been sold to
a W. H. Litchford of New Orleans. Attached to it were four
coupons, each redeemable for a year’s tuition at W&L. Though
Dr. Crenshaw made _ passing reference to “coupon
scholarships” in General Lee’s College, latter-day University
officials had not really been aware of the existence of such cer-
tificates until that letter arrived from Kansas.

Subsequent checking showed, however, that the late Lucius
Junius Desha had presented a claim for credit in 1903 on the
basis of a similar coupon on a certificate once owned by his
family. (Freshman Desha did not possess the actual certificate
or coupon; his request was based on a family tradition that his
grandfather had bought the certificate about 1878 for $250,
and that Cave Desha Lucas had used one coupon in 1891. The
University Treasurer, John L. Campbell, allowed young Desha
$50 credit toward the cost of tuition, which then was $80.)

In 1958, Dr. Desha—by that time professor emeritus of
chemistry at W&L, former head of the department, and former

 

Rupert N. Latture is no newcomer to Washington and Lee or to the
alumni magazine. His most recent contribution to these pages was the
saga of the 1917 battle between Miss Annie Jo White and Virginia’s
Commissioner of Prohibition [September].

 

takes place the day after Mr. Latture’s birthday; this year, as
every year, preparing for that occasion commanded much of
his time and attention on his “own” day.)

His friends and co-workers, which are two names for the

Jip t th 2 Me yp Mag. . a. A. “bhi (fork ~~ begin,
i nhc Ort. Cha t the % feces ¥ 74 CLES Ze AS eS, a Thor re — 3
he : Mage hla pele “ MG afte ie Lieto Rey ; fbr CELLO LEE co 8
7 ee Veco ie ee ieee Soe ES “gy e —. a
: Marsketrigle yt fe Moye, ' LOL lief COL OLE yt yee nis Of valfeven :
Mere Pigg lee 678 Lr oe he

 

 

 

 

 

fee Cee hee 3

 

 

 

2G ree oe

oS i)
é

Sons Me

 

 

      

ee RoR.

 

ore 4d & yz (es PRAT HI HL
ee

 

 

 

 

\ ¢ : :
at ¢
ak Se One ee wd ech:

Opposite is a facsimile of one of the coupons attached to the scholarship certificate
issued in 1875 toa W. H. Litchford of New Orleans; above is a reduced
copy of the certificate with the coupons attached.

 

same group of people, agree that it’s impossible to imagine
what Washington and Lee would be like if he had not been here
these nearly seven decades. It’s easy, of course, to measure the
success of ODK since 1914, when he and his roommate, the late
J. Carl Fisher, came up with the notion of setting up an organ-
ization at W&L to recognize campus leadership. Today, ODK
has 162 active circles on campuses across the nation (and three
more to be installed this spring). More difficult would be
gauging the reach of his quiet Washington and Lee work—the
network of alumni with whom he corresponds, for whom he is
the central link to Washington and Lee; the people (on campus
and off) who regard him as the only source of information on
20th-century Washington and Lee they need. (They’re right,
of course. If Mr. Latture doesn’t know it, and doesn’t come up
with an anecdote or two about it, and add some sidelights or
footnotes to flesh it out—then it’s probably not worth contem-
plating in the first place.)

When he is on campus, the alumni files are almost super-
fluous; people use them when they want dates or street num-
bers, but not when they want to know about an alumnus.

Then they call R.N.L.

Dean of the University—wrote the treasurer, telling him the
story of the certificate tradition and suggesting that each of his
grandchildren be allowed the same $50 credit on tuition if they
should enroll at Washington and Lee, not so much for the
monetary value as for the sake of the sentiment. And two of Dr.
Desha’s grandchildren, D’Arcy and Angelica Didier, were in
fact given that credit toward tuition in the School of Law on the
basis of his request.

The scholarship certificates, it turned out, had been au-
thorized in 1869 by the Board of Trustees when the financial
circumstances of Washington College (as it was then called)
were truly critical. The Board decided, in essence, to sell futures
in tuition. A $250 certificate carried four coupons, each entitling
the holder to a year’s tuition and fees; a $500 certificate bore 10
coupons, and a $1,000 certificate had 24.

Over the years several of the certificates have turned up.
The widow of one purchaser asked if a refund would be allowed
on the $125 her husband had paid toward a $250 certificate
before he died; it was. In another instance, a certificate was
auctioned as part of the holder’s estate settlement. (It fetched
$55.) In 1910 a woman who held a certificate wrote to then-
President George H. Denny about her son’s obtaining tuition
credit in exchange for coupons; Dr. Denny assured her they
would be honored.

Now that someone in Emporia has come into possession of a
$250 certificate, a Pandora’s-boxful of questions arises. Is there
a kind of “statute of limitations” in such matters? What is the
fair value today?

How many more certificates are out there?

19

 

 

 

 

Paxton Davis

Ned, by Paxton Davis, was published this
autumn by Atheneum ($7.95). Davis taught
journalism at Washington and Lee from
1953 until 1976 and was head of the
department from 1968 to 1974. His
previous books include The Battle of New
Market (Little, Brown), Two Soldiers (Simon
& Schuster), One of the Dark Places and The
Seasons of Heroes (both Morrow), and A Flag
at the Pole (Atheneum). This review is by
Hampden H. Smith III, assistant professor
of journalism and a regular book reviewer
for the Richmond (Va.) News Leader.

Paxton Davis’ most recent book, Ned,
is asmall gem of literate introspection.

In Ned, Davis, who was forced to re-
tire from W&L’s journalism faculty in
1976 because of ill health, grapples with
the nature of the enigmatic Lawrence
of Arabia. Ned is not history, nor is it
one of those “psychohistories” that now
pepper the shelves of bookstores.
Davis’ picture of Thomas Edward
Lawrence is too internally cohesive to
be termed a musing, too ruminative to
be called biography.

But what matter labels? Its strength
is in the quality of its narrative, at once
both misty and precise.

Davis sees Ned’s life strongly
influenced by his medieval studies,
and Davis structures his reflections
around a concept of medieval life.

Ned’s. preparation—his term as

squire—was focused in an archaeologi-
cal excavation at Carchemish, along the
Euphrates in Syria. During those years
Ned “moved almost imperceptibly to an
integration of his gifts, ideals and per-
sonality such as few men achieve in a
lifetime. [Yet] he had not left his youth.”

 

Ned’s term as knight, as_ the
instigator and leader of the Arab revolt
against the Ottoman empire during
World War I, was both the apogee and
perigee of his life: the glory of success
ina deeply felt cause, the heady rush of
power; the disillusionment at venality
and collusion, the shudder at the gore
of war. “They had never fought so

’ Ned: ‘A Small Gem Of Literate Introspection’

cruelly, nor would they again. ...
They killed indiscriminately, with
bullet, blade and lance, then turned
and despoiled their victims’ bodies,
riding across them and firing into
them again and again... . That night
the field was silent with the great
slaughter his assent had unleashed,
and in the silence he felt the last of his
virtue leave him. He was deep in
blood.”

Thus driven from life, Ned flees to
the monastery of peacetime military
service. “He understood at last why so
many medieval knights, stout heroes of
his imagination, had ended as
monks—in the lie life gave their lives,
the discrepancy between ideal and
reality, between the wish to serve and
the need to kill, lay the need to
expiate.” Being “no longer tainted by
mortal ambition . . . was the culminating
achievement of his chivalric quest, per-

haps. ... Yet with it, as only he knew,
came a denial of further interest in liv-
ing... . He was empty and knew it, ex-

hausted of purpose and bereft of a
future.”

That he ended his life in a final
chivalric act to save the lives of two
small boys seems, in Davis’ hands, both
apt and assuasive.

 

 

Mar.

Mar.
Mar.

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

May
May
May
May
May

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.

20

LACROSSE
3—Chesapeake L. C. HOME
(Exhibition)
7—Duke HOME
10—Mt. Washington L.C. Away
(Exhibition)
14—Salisbury State HOME
17—Syracuse HOME
20—Ohio Wesleyan HOME

24— Univ. of North Carolina Away

28—Univ. of Delaware HOME
31—Towson State Away

4— Brown HOME
18—Rutgers Away
22— Univ. of Virginia HOME
28— Washington College Away

5—Roanoke College Away
12—Hofstra HOME
16—NCAA Quarterfinals TBA
19—NCAA Semifinals TBA

26—NCAA Championship

Game TBA
BASEBALL
9—West Virginia Tech HOME
10—West Virginia Tech HOME
16—Eastern Mennonite HOME
17—Longwood HOME

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

May

Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Mar.
Apr.
Apr.
Apr.

2 1— Randolph-Macon Away
24—Emory & Henry HOME
26— Duke HOME
27— Bridgewater Away
29—Liberty Baptist HOME
1—Hampden-Sydney HOME
4—Lynchburg HOME
17—Bridgewater HOME
19—Eastern Mennonite Away
24—Lynchburg Away
2—V.M.I. Away
TENNIS
13— Rochester HOME

17—Morehead State Univ. HOME
19— Univ. of South Carolina Away
21—Univ. of North Carolina Away

23—George Washington Away
24—George Mason Away
26—Old Dominion Away
27—V.M.I. Away
28— Richmond HOME
29—Hampton Institute HOME
30— Davidson Away
31—Furman Away

2—Christopher Newport HOME
3—William and Mary HOME
4—James Madison

HOME »

Apr. 17—Univ. of Texas Away
Apr. 18—Univ. of Dallas Away
Apr. 19—Texas Christian Away
Apr. 22—Univ. of Tennessee Away
Apr. 23—Hampden-Sydney HOME
Apr. 25—Univ. of Virginia Away
Apr. 27—ODAC
28—Lynchburg College Away
May I—V.P.I. | HOME
May 2—Randolph-Macon Away
May 4-5—Notre Dame, Kalamazoo,
Valparaiso Away
May 8&—Navy Away
OUTDOOR TRACK
Mar. 9— Roanoke,
Liberty Baptist HOME
Mar. 17—Davidson Away
Mar. 23—Emory & Henry Away
Mar. 31—Wake Forest
Invitational Away
Apr. 20—Lynchburg,
Eastern Mennonite Away
Apr. 24—Virginia State Meet JMU
Apr. 28—ODAC Championship
Lynchburg

May 4—Bridgewater,

Newport News App. HOME

——_

 

 

WILLIAM MILLER HINTON

“Billy Hinton was a stimulating and
popular teacher and was one who had a
keen interest in the welfare and future of
his students. His wit, common sense, and
sound judgment significantly influenced
the lives of both students and fellow fac-
ulty members.”

Faculty Resolution

February 5, 1979

William M. Hinton, a member of
the W&L psychology faculty for 47
years until his retirement in 1977, died
on New Year’s Day. He was 71.

Surviving him are a son, W. M.
Hinton Jr. of Winter Park, Fla., and
two grandchildren.

He was buried in Stonewall Jackson
Cemetery in Lexington beside his wife,

 

 

 

 

 

 

1907-1979

Mary Moore Harper Hinton, who died
in 1977.

A 1929 B.A. graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee, he received his master’s
degree from W&L a year later and his
Ph.D. degree in psychology from Ohio
State University in 1937.

Except for a year in graduate school
and four years of Army service during
World War II, during which time he
attained the rank of lieutenant colonel,
Dr. Hinton remained at Washington
and Lee for his entire professional ca-
reer. His “entertaining and informative

stories,” as the resolution unanimously

adopted by the faculty noted, helped
preserve a large part of the oral history
of the University. His “deep loyalty and

 

unselfish service” to Washington and
Lee were clearly evident.

Dr. Hinton began his teaching ca-
reer at W&L as an instructor in educa-
tion and psychology from 1930 to 1936,
becoming assistant professor in 1937,
associate professor in 1946, and full
professor in 1951. He was head of the
psychology department from 1959 to
1972. He had been, for several years
before that, director of the University’s
counseling and placement service.

Asa licensed psychologist, Dr. Hin-
ton also undertook testing and con-
sultation work for the Rockbridge
County Welfare Department and was a
former chairman of the Virginia Ex-
amining Board for clinical psycholo-
gists.

He also taught on a part-time visit-
ing basis at the University of Virginia,
Virginia Military Institute, and Sweet
Briar and Randolph-Macon Woman’s
Colleges. His teaching fields included
elementary, educational, abnormal,
social, industrial and developmental
psychology, theories of personality, and
measurement of human traits and
abilities.

Dr. Hinton was a Fellow of the
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science and of the
American Psychological Association
and was a member and former presi-
dent of the Southern Society for
Philosophy and Psychology, the Vir-
ginia Academy of Sciences, and the
Virginia Psychological Association.

While at Washington and Lee, Dr.
Hinton was particularly devoted to the
sports program. He served on the Uni-
versity Committee on Intercollegiate
Athletics for 25 years and was chairman
most of that time.

When Dr. Hinton retired from the
committee in 1972, Dr. William W.
Pusey III, professor of German and
former dean of The College, composed
a poem of tribute, the last stanza of
which remains a fitting reminder:

He helped us with all his mind,
And heart, and soul, for thus it was
That Billy Hinton his service gave.

 

21

 

 

by James G. Leyburn

“THE W&L IDEAL’

Dr. Leyburn On Areté, Magnanimity, And His Hopes For The University

Dr. Leyburn, who was dean of the University from 1947 to 1955
and professor of sociology from 1947 to 1970, delivered these
remarks at the Founders’ Day-ODK convocation on January 19.

The aims he propounded at the beginning of his deanship provided
the pattern for most of the University’s academic progress for the next
25 years.

It always delights me to return to Washington and Lee,
and I am especially happy to be allowed a part in this
Founders’ Day and ODK Assembly. Washington and Lee has
absorbed a good part of my life and thoughts and affections;
and as you will see from my remarks, ODK expresses many
of the ideals I have long cherished for this University.

My acquaintance with Washington and Lee goes back to
my childhood, with my father’s stories about his
undergraduate days here, and with visits to Lexington, which
had long been the home of the family. I was struck, even in
those childhood days, by what seemed to be an intangible
quality that pervaded the campus, as if some indefinable
spirit hovered about the place and the people who pass
through its halls. I hasten to remark that I am by no means a
mystic (who ever heard of a mystical streak in a bluestocking
Presbyterian?). But I am not alone in sensing this indefinable
quality of which I speak.

In classical antiquity, that most practical and hard-headed
of people, the Romans, held the idea that at birth an
individual acquired a kind of attendant spirit—they called it
a genius—which protected him through life and which gave
him the unique qualities of body and mind which he
possessed. By extension, they conceived that each of their
important localities and institutions—the Senate, for
example—had its genius loci. This “genius of the place” was
compounded of its physical appearance, the distinctive
impression it made upon visitors to it, but more importantly
its way of inspiring affection and loyalty, its curious quality
of demanding that one work to make it uniquely great.

To me, Washington and Lee has such a genius loci that
gives it a quality which distinguishes it from every other
university. No one could, after five minutes on this campus
and an observation of its students, mistake Washington and
Lee for a state university or for Notre Dame or for Georgia
Tech. It is not merely that our campus is different from
theirs, that we have our special traditions, that our
curriculum is our own, that our athletic program is not the
same. Who can say what has gone into the creation of the
genius of this place that makes us love it and recognize its
uniqueness? Our genius loci is compounded of the beauty of
the Colonnade under snow on a moonlit night, of sunset
behind House Mountain, of the Honor System, of great
teachers and their courses, of long hours in the library
boning up for tests and exams, of Fancy Dress, of victories
(and defeats) on Wilson Field and in the gym, of going down
the road, of pride in Washington and Lee’s academic
standards—indeed, of 230 years of accumulated tradition

a2

built up by men whose names most of us would no longer
recognize.

What has always interested me about the Roman idea of
genius, especially as applied to Roman citizenship, is the
demands it made on a person and the almost amazing
acceptance by Romans of their obligations. In a moving
passage in the Aeneid the ideal is held up of Roman rule of
justice and peace and discipline; and it was this kind of
practical idealism that, to my mind, explains the major part
of “the grandeur that was Rome.”

On the day in which ODK honors those who have made a
distinctive contribution to the University I suggest that
Washington and Lee’s genius loci, like the god Janus, looks in
two directions: backward to our great heritage, and forward
to our expectations for the future. It is to the future that our
motto points: non incautus futuri. If we are truly to be “not
unmindful of the future,” it might be well to clarify our
hopes for the University. With diffidence, I suggest two
ideals I have long cherished for Washington and Lee; and
since I have spoken of these before on this campus, I ask the
indulgence of older members of the community if my next
remarks seem for them a twice-told tale.

The first of these ideals is that of excellence—and I am
sure that all of us would acknowledge the validity of such an
ideal for a first-rate University like ours. But the excellence I
have in mind is of a different quality from that ordinarily
implied by the word. I resort again to classical antiquity.

By common consent, the Athenians of the fifth century
B.c. reached a pinnacle of achievement. Within a few
decades (actually only about two generations) the small city
of Athens, not as large as Richmond, produced such men as
Themistocles and Pericles, Socrates and Plato, Aeschylus and
Sophocles and Euripides, Phidias, Aristophanes, and dozens
of others whose names ring down the centuries. How could
all this happen? Not, I think, because of some sudden
miraculous combination of genes in its citizens, but chiefly
because the Athenians had a clear ideal to strive for, one
inculcated into every youth from the moment he started to
school. The Greek word for this ideal was areté, and the
dictionary blandly defines this simply as “excellence.” For the
Athenians, however, the word and the ideal had overtones
and undertones far richer than the ordinary meaning. From
the outset, the schoolboy in Athens was made to realize that
it was never enough to be pretty good; he must strive to excel,
and in every part of his curriculum.

We certainly share with the Athenians their stress on
excelling in sports and games. Like us, Greek youths trained
their bodies; they exercised daily and strenuously (they
invented the gymnasium, in which they trained both body
and mind); they played constantly (once again, it was the
Greeks who started the Olympic games, and they were the
first people in the world to have competitive sports). But now
consider how the ideal of excellence ramified, and how far it
went beyond excellence of body.

 

 

 

 

One could never be considered up to the ideal unless he
was versatile. Areté really meant “excellence in all that is
admirable.” Every boy was expected to be thoroughly at
home with literature, and many Athenian youths could recite
from memory long passages from Homer and the other
poets. During this great age Athenians built the Parthenon,
and its architects and sculptors knew that their work would
be appreciated by true connoisseurs—that is, by men
schooled to cultivate the arts. One of the best examples of
areté was Sophocles, the great playwright. He was reputed to
be one of the most skilled flutists and dancers in Athens; he
was an industrialist (and a successful one), was elected
treasurer of the empire, was twice chosen as general in the
army, as well as the author of 121 tragedies. It was assumed
that the purpose of education was to make every youth a
good citizen, willing to devote endless time in service to the
city, listening almost daily to political debate in the agora,
voting on domestic and foreign policy, serving in the army or
navy.

What to me makes these Athenians most memorable and

admirable is the way they used their minds. They seemed to
have infinite curiosity, and they discovered that intellectual
exercise was by all odds the most stimulating and rewarding
part of life. They were always eager to learn something new.
When Herodotus came back from Egypt or Persia, the
Athenians gathered daily in the agora to ask him about how
other people lived and thought. When Socrates showed up,
youths left their exercise and games to query that wise man:
“What really is truth, Socrates?. What is beauty? How can we
know what is worth living for?” Their curiosity and
imagination made them the first natural scientists the world
had known. They had tremendous courage of mind; they
dared to be skeptical and questioning, no matter how
disturbing this might be to their peace of mind: they went
constantly to witness the great tragedies that challenged what
had always been regarded as eternal verities. I could go on
and on about these great Athenians; but you can see why
Edgar Allan Poe spoke of the glory that was Greece. It was
glory—because these Athenians lived in a perfect ferment of
the mind and found it exhilarating and rewarding.

Now for my point: how could all this glory come to pass
within a few decades? Not by some transcendent miracle; nor
do I believe for a moment that these Athenians had any
better minds than ours. I am certain that Washington and
Lee men are quite as intelligent as Athenians of the fifth
century, quite as quick and capable. They made an
imperishable name for themselves and for their little city
because they exercised their minds and creative imaginations
to the fullest, not content to be merely good in a single field.
Why should this Washington and Lee community not
become the Athens of America? Can we truthfully say that
our Washington and Lee ideal of excellence has so touched
our minds and hearts that every man here feels the
compulsion to excel in many areas, to open his mind to new
ideas and seek out knowledge about what is unfamiliar to
him?

I have always felt disappointed that many Washington
and Lee students so soon begin to specialize that they miss
the riches of this University’s superb curriculum, and that
other students seem so intent on grades that they refuse the
challenge of difficult courses. I believe I should say that the
besetting sin of Washington and Lee students is their
conventionality of mind—their willingness to follow
accustomed paths instead of launching out into the
unknown. I am struck by a curious phenomenon: that there
always seem at least to me to be many more eccentrics on the
faculty and staff at Washington and Lee than there are
among the students half their age. Why should this be? We
certainly encourage incipient scholars and financiers and
businessmen; but I think the University would be healthier if
more students left those beaten tracks. Oddballs are not
comfortable for administrators and teachers; nevertheless, I
wish students on the campus more frequently caused some
fluttering in the dovecotes of the sedate. Or again, I know

23

 

how many honors theses are produced and that is fine; but
why does the University not seem to stimulate other and less
conventional forms of originality and creativity? Where are
the Washington and Lee poets and novelists, our composers
and painters and sculptors in this country, for example?
Have we narrowed down the ideal of areté to make it
conform to the values of a job-getting career?

The second ideal I cherish for Washington and Lee—and
here I draw upon the French language of chivalry and
feudalism—is that of noblesse oblige. It was a recognized part
of the code of a nobleman that he must undertake
obligations for those weaker and less privileged than himself.
Nobility obligates! No law required this duty: it was simply
understood that, in the very nature of things, those who have
power must protect those who are weak, those who have
means must care for the needy, those who rule must concern
themselves with the welfare of those who are ruled. Because
one was well-born, one naturally assumed full responsibility
for the community. All privilege obligates.

Needless to say, power was often abused; but few
noblemen—indeed, few gentlemen up through the 18th
century—would deny the obligations of their privileged
position. There were many rewards even for those who
concerned themselves with the lowly. The chief of these was
perhaps a sense of holding together a community, of
knowing that one was needed, of finding inner satisfaction in
duty done and in kindnesses beyond the call of duty.

No men in modern America are more privileged than
students at Washington and Lee. Economic background,
education, health, range of acquaintance, knowledge of the
world, personal gifts, awareness of moral imperatives—all
these advantages and more put Washington and Lee men in
a position similar to that of the aristocrats who lived by the
code of noblesse oblige. Can we then say that it 1s characteristic
of this University’s graduates and students that they
automatically, and without having to reflect on the
expenditure of time and energy and imagination, exert
themselves for the benefit of their communities?

To return for a moment to the great Greeks, let’s ask why
Athenian youths were so eager to live up to the ideals of
areté. What did they gain? At most, in a material way, only
the crown of a simple laurel wreath. Much more important
was the awareness that one’s abilities might bring glory to his
polis, his dear city, that would make it shine more brilliantly
than ever. Here was something bigger than self to live for;
and the more honor one achieved personally, the more
significant his contribution might be to the community.

Perhaps because of the self-centered world of our
childhood, we find it easy to think only of ourselves. We
want to win honors for the acclaim they bring; but the
applause turns to ashes if one’s achievements remain simply
personal. The true satisfaction of a triumph is the
opportunity it gives to be useful to others. Once again, it is a
temptation at college to try to win acceptance by doing what

24

the crowd does, even when it is brainless and destructive; or
to live passively, without making any extra effort. But even
to mention these ways of life makes us realize that they are
not satisfactory. They produce no areté. I suggest that the
ultimate wisdom of the Athenians in their dedication to the
ideal of areté was the insight that achieving excellence could
benefit other people, their polis, their community. That was
the real reward of all their striving. Parenthetically, the
Greek word, idiotes, which we translate into English as “idiot,”
means literally living a private life, concentrating only on
what benefits oneself. How truly idiotic!

Once again, as in the ideal of excellence, we might learn
from our attitude toward sports. Any member of a team
knows what it means to work for the success of the team, not
concentrating on becoming a star for his own glory. Does
that wisdom extend beyond the playing fields and the
gymnasium? What have you done to make Washington and
Lee a more admirable university? The first by-law of this
institution declares that we are not a denominational
institution; but then the by-law continues: “The obligation to
inculcate the Christian ideal is hereby affirmed.” I think I
should name as our greatest shortcoming our failure to take
that obligation seriously. Whatever else the Christian ideal
comprehends, it surely includes compassion, kindness to
others, service, loving one’s neighbor as oneself. Not many
students seem truly aware of the conditions of life beyond
the campus, of the poverty and distress and injustices that
exist within a mile of this building and in Rockbridge
County; and I fear that only a few of our 1700 students are
doing anything positive to alleviate these conditions and this
suffering.

There is a splendidly sonorous word, beloved of Milton
and Bacon, that sums up both the ideal of areté and that of
noblesse oblige. Vhat word is magnanimity. The great Oxford
Dictionary is rich in its comment on the word. It means
great-souled; greatness of mind and heart; the habit of
feeling and acting worthily under all circumstances; high-
mindedness; intrinsic nobility (note here the implication of
noblesse oblige). The Oxford continues: “In its earlier use the
word implies especially high courage and noble steadfastness
of purpose; in its later use, high-minded generosity.” This
was what Newman had in mind when he named the
essentials a university should instill in its students, and put
magnanimity among them.

My hope and dream for Washington and Lee 1s that from
this Tap Day forward, from this day when we honor those
adjudged excellent among us, your generation of
Washington and Lee men will dedicate themselves to
magnanimity, to cultivating the ideals of areté and noblesse
oblige. You could from this day forward transform the
University. Then in future years we might all look back on
this day and say, with Henry V to his men just before
Agincourt, “We few, we happy few, we band of brothers...
will stand a tip-toe when this day is named!”

 

 

CHAPTER NEWS

Palmetto Chapter Sponsors First Combined Reeves— Herreshoff Exhibition

 

PALMETTO—Chapter President John W. Folsom (right) presents framed
memento to Mr. and Mrs. W. R. Reeves of Charleston. Mr. Reeves is the

surviving brother of the late Euchlin D. Reeves, ’27.

PALMETTO. An estimated 600
alumni, parents and other guests
attended a gala black-tie opening at the
Museums of Art and Science in , -
Columbia, S. C., in November of a
combined exhibition there of the Reeves
Collection of Chinese Export Porcelain
and the paintings of Louise Herreshoff.
The Columbia event marked the first
time the two nationally famed W&L
collections had been exhibited together.

The round of special activities in
connection with the exhibition began
with a dinner given for W&L guests by
South Carolina Gov. and Mrs. James B.
Edwards. Among those who attended
from Lexington were James Whitehead,
W&L treasurer and curator of the
collections, and Mrs. Whitehead, Dean
of The College and Mrs. William J. Watt,
Director of Development and Mrs.
Farris P. Hotchkiss, Assistant Professor
of Music and Mrs. Gordon P. Spice,
Alumni Secretary and Mrs. W. C.
Washburn, and Assistant Alumni
Secretary and Mrs. Leroy C. (Buddy)
Atkins. John W. Folsom, ’73, Palmetto
chapter president, presided. Among the
special guests were Development Staff
Associate and Mrs. John C. Hollister of
Atlanta.

In turn, Washington and Lee has
placed a number of items from the
2,000-piece Reeves Collection on loan in
the Governor’s Mansion there. Because
Euchlin Reeves, ’27, who with his wife

 

 

 

 

PALMETTO—Members of “Southern Comfort,” a select singing group
within the WESL Glee Club, entertained at a banquet given by Gov. and Mrs.

James B. Edwards (shown in governor’s mansion parlor, above).

Louise Herreshoff Reeves assembled the
collection, was born and raised in South
Carolina, a number of items in it have
distinct ties to the Palmetto State.

Treasurer Whitehead was a guest
lecturer at the museum in connection
with the Reeves/Herreshoff exhibition.
Whitehead is curator and developer of
both collections; he “discovered” Louise
Herreshoff and is a nationally known
expert in the field of 18th-century
Chinese export porcelain.

A stag luncheon took place at
Columbia’s elegant Summit Club, and
President Huntley was the principal
speaker.

At the opening and reception in the
museum, W. R. Reeves, Euchlin
Reeves’s surviving brother, was a special
guest of honor. He attended with
several other descendants of Mr. Reeves,
and W. R. Reeves was awarded a
splendidly framed citation by the
Palmetto Chapter commemorating the
1967 gift of the Reeves Collection to
WEL.

Entertainment at both the
Governor’s banquet and the formal
Opening was provided by Southern
Comfort, a select group within the W&L
Glee Club specializing in casual music
from spirituals and college songs to
barbershop harmony and comic ballads.
Comfort also sang to delighted
audiences at the Hammond Academy, a
preparatory school in Columbia, and at

the Trinity Cathedral close by the
museum, which happened to be having
its annual Christmas bazaar on the day
the W&L group was in town. (The
bazaar further happened to have as its
chairman Jackie Adams, wife of Patton
Adams, ’65.)

Instrumental in making
arrangements for the exhibition and
reception were T. Patton Adams, ’65,
and his wife Jackie; Augustus T.
Graydon; J. Hagood Ellison Jr., 72, a
broker with Merrill, Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Smith; Chapter President
Folsom, ’73, vice president of South
Carolina Federal Savings & Loan; Philip
G. Grose Jr., 60, director of the State
Reorganization Commission of South
Carolina; Willoughby Newton III, ’60,
CLU with Connecticut Mutual Life
Insurance Co.; William H. Townsend,
50; Claude M. Walker Jr., 71, general
manager of the Standard Warehouse
Co.; Addison G. (Joe) Wilson, ’69, and
his wife Roxanne; Arlen Cotter, and his
wife Janet, parents of Leslie A. Cotter
Jr., 80; and Walter Hathaway, director
of the Museums of Art and Science.

Virginia Grose, vice president of
South Carolina National Bank, edited
and designed the magnificent color-
cover catalogue and invitation. A grant
from the State-Record Foundation of
Columbia covered the cost of
publication.

The J. B. White Co., one of

25

   
   

| MID-SOUTH—Trustee Emeritus J. Stewart Buxton, ’36, and Mrs. Buxton
were honored at a cocktail buffet. The Buxtons, at right, are shown in
conversation with W. Carrington Jones, 54. Buxton was a member of the

Board of Trustees for 25 years.

MID-SOUTH—At the home of Mr. and Mrs. Jacques Schuler Jr., from left,
Jody Brown, ’65; James Gallavan, ’51, Alumni Board member; Mrs. Milburn
Noell; Mr. Schuler, ’56; Mrs. Schuler, and Mr. Noell, ’51.

Columbia’s leading department stores,
sponsored the reception.

MEMPHIS. A large group of alumni
and friends gathered at the home of
Jacques Schuler Jr., 56, in Germantown
on Nov. 16 to pay special honor to J.
Stewart Buxton, ’36. (The Schulers
served a cocktail buffet to the guests.)
The chapter presented a framed
certificate of recognition to Buxton for
his outstanding service to Washington
and Lee—a member of the University
Board of Trustees for 25 years—and to
the alumni chapter. During the
presentation, Buxton commended the
University’s current development
program and praised the efforts of S L
Kopald, ’43, chairman of the Phase II
Development Program, who is also a
Trustee and member of the Memphis
chapter. Mark Putney, ’78, an ad-
missions counselor, discussed his
recent visits to local high schools. Also
present were James F. Gallivan, ’51, a
member of the Alumni Board of
Directors; Milburn Noell, 51, a
University staff associate; and William
(Bill) Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary.
Jody Brown, ’65, president of the
chapter, was master of ceremonies.

NEW ORLEANS. The chapter gave a
dinner and cocktail party on Nov. 17 at
the Delmonico Restaurant on St. Charles

26

    
   

Street. Special guests for the occasion
were Dr. Edward C. Atwood, Dean of
the School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics, and Mrs. Atwood. A large
group of alumni, wives and dates
listened to Dean Atwood’s remarks
about Washington and Lee, “Thirteen
Items of Good News/Bad News.” Rick
Christovich, 68, president of the
chapter, was master of ceremonies. He
reported on the future program plans
for the chapter and on student
recruitment efforts. Also in attendance
were Joseph T. Lykes Jr., 41, a
University Trustee; Judge John Minor
Wisdom, ’25, Trustee Emeritus; Milburn
K. Noell, 51, staff associate for
development; and William (Bill)
Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary.

LYNCHBURG. The chapter’s annual
Christmas dance took place at the Elks
Club on Dec. 1. Alumni and their guests
danced to the music of A Sound
Investment. The dance has become a
traditional gathering for Washington
and Lee Alumni and Lynchburg
graduates of many other schools. Cecil
Taylor, ’39, ’41L, chapter president;
Starke Sydnor, ’66; and Bill Washburn
Jr., 66, organized the black tie affair.

JACKSONVILLE. The chapter met at
the River Club on Dec. 6 to honor John
H. McCormack Jr., ’50, chairman of the

NEW ORLEANS—Dean Edward C. Atwood Jr. (standing) was the speaker
at a cocktail party and dinner banquet in November. Also shown are, from
left, Milburn K. Noell, ’51, Joseph T. Lykes Jr., 41, member of the
University Board of Trustees; Mrs. Lykes, and Richard K. Christovich, ’68.

NEW ORLEANS—Apbparently enjoying themselves impressively were, from
left, Michelle Carrere; Joseph Carrere, ’77; Julian Good, ’78; Elizabeth
Jackson; Frederick (Rick) Bates, ’76, and Marybelle Bates.

   

Atlantic National Bank and a new
member of the Alumni Board of
Directors, and James W. Whitehead,
treasurer of the University and curator
of the Reeves collection of Chinese
export porcelain and the Louise
Herreshoff paintings owned by
Washington and Lee. (Several items of
the porcelain collection were “lead”
exhibits at the Jacksonville Antique
Show taking place in the city.) Charles
Commander III, ’62, newly-elected
chapter president, presided at the
meeting. James Whitehead discussed
some of the unique gifts given to
Washington and Lee—including the
gifts of porcelain and the Herreshoff
paintings by the Reeves family—and
explained their significant benefit to the
University. Also present were John
Hollister, 58, an Atlanta attorney who is
now a development staff associate; Mr.
and Mrs. Martin Stein, who organized
the gathering and the cocktail buffet;
and William (Bill) Washburn, ’40,
alumni secretary. Commander
concluded the program with the news of
a future chapter function on March 4—
the exhibit of the University’s Chinese
export porcelain and Herreshoff
paintings at the Cummer Gallery in
Jacksonville.

MILWAUKEE. Alumni from
Wisconsin gathered at the Town Club in

 

   
   

dance festivities.

chapter president.

Milwaukee on Dec. 13 to receive their
chapter charter—presented by Leroy C.
(Buddy) Atkins, 68, assistant alumni
secretary—and elect officers. Elected
were Price M. Davis Jr.,’36, president;
David R. Braun, ’76, vice president; and
Thomas H. Baumann, ’76, secretary-
treasurer. Farris Hotchkiss, 58, director
of development, delivered an update
report on the University. After a
presentation of slides of the campus, the
meeting concluded with a question and
answer session.

DETROIT. Alumni from the Detroit
area met on Dec. 14 at the Country Club
of Detroit in Grosse Pointe to establish
the 62nd chapter of Washington and
Lee alumni. After cocktails and a
dinner, arranged by Alfred F. Taylor,
°27, the chapter elected its first slate of
officers. Elected were James W. Large,
68, president; John F. Mozena, ’67, vice
president; and Thomas J. Gage, ’70,
secretary-treasurer. Leroy C. (Buddy)
Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni secretary,
spoke about the growing importance of
alumni chapters in the future needs of
Washington and Lee and presented the
chapter charter to the officers. President
Jim Large reported on the successful
Old Dominion Day Dance conducted
earlier in the year and announced
future gatherings in the spring and fall.
Farris Hotchkiss, ’58, director of

LYNCHBURG—E. Starke Sydnor, ’66, 73L; Mrs. Sydnor; William V.
Giles, ’61, and Mrs. Giles, during a break in the chapter’s annual Christmas

JACKSONVILLE— John H. McCormack Jr., ’50 (right), new member of the
Alumni Board of Directors, is recognized by Charles E. Commander III, ’62,

Whitehead.

JACKSONVILLE—Alumni, wives, dates and other guests lent an attentive :
ear during remarks by Treasurer and Reeves-Herreshoff curator James W.

ATLANTA—Front, Jeannie La
‘69L; rear, Robert Woodward, ’71; Michael Lawrence, 66; Whitlow Wyatt, ’70;

   
   

    

   

Ee \ 4a eee

wrence, Claudia Wyatt, J]. D. Humphries, ’66,

  

>

Randolph Hutto, 72; Liza Jamison; Curt Jamison, ’70; Elizabeth Johnson.

development, reported on the current
status of the University. A slide
presentation of campus scenes and a
question and answer session concluded
the evening program.

NORTHWEST LOUISIANA. A
Christmas holiday reception for current
students at Washington and Lee, as well
as for prospective students from the
Shreveport area, took place Dec. 19 at
the home of Mr. and Mrs. William T.
Murphy, parents of Tom Murphy, ’77.
James E. Burt IV and Charles D.
Caruthers, entering freshmen under the
Early Decision admission program,
attended. The reception was organized
by T. Haller Jackson III, 73.

FLORIDA. An exhibit of the
Washington and Lee collection of the
Reeves Chinese export porcelain and
the Louise Herreshoff paintings was
given at the Henry Morrison Flagler
Museum in Palm Beach on Jan. 12. A
cocktail party and buffet dinner
preceded a program which included
remarks by President Robert E. R. Huntley
and a short talk about the collections and
their impact on W&L by James W.
Whitehead, University treasurer and
curator of the collections. Among the
guests were Mrs. Jean Flagler Matthews,
granddaughter of Henry Morrison
Flagler and Dr. E. O. Mitchell, a former

astronaut. The arrangements committee
included Kenneth S. Beall Jr., 61, ’63L;
Manley P. Caldwell Jr., 58, ’60L; and
Beverley H. Smith, ’32. Also in
attendance were Farris Hotchkiss, ’58,
director of development, and Mrs.
Hotchkiss; John Hollister, ’58, staff
associate, and Mrs. Hollister; Leroy C.
Atkins, ’68, assistant alumni secretary,
and Mrs. Atkins; and William C.
Washburn, ’40, alumni secretary, and
Mrs. Washburn.

ATLANTA. A group of alumni met at
a local restaurant on Jan. 19 to honor
the birthday of Robert E. Lee. A similar
gathering took place last year. This past
October, the chapter elected John W.
Hines, 63, president; Robert G.
Woodward, ’71, and W. Whitlow Wyatt,
‘70, vice presidents; Fleming Keefe, 61,
secretary; and Madison F. Cole, ’71,
treasurer. The 13th annual W&L/U.Va.
football game took place on Oct. 21 at
the Polo Grounds. W&L was narrowly
defeated. Representing their alma mater
were David C. Black, ’64; Frederick N.
Black, 69; Claibourne H. Darden Jr.,
66; Randolf L. Hutto, ’72; Curt B.
Jamison, 70; Peter K. Kintz, ’66, *69L;
Charles W. Kuhn, 70; James L. Nalley
Jr., °74; William H. Runge, ’74; William
F. Skinner Jr., 65; Michael (Thunder)
Thornton, ’70, ’73L; and William A.
Tyler, ’75.

1

27

CLASS NOTES

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE
WASHINGTON AND LEE

ARM CHAIR AND ROCKER
With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and rock maple, hand-rubbed in black
lacquer with gold trim. It is an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It is a welcome gift for all
occasions—Christmas, birthdays, anniversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$85.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$70.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or business address. Please include your
name, address, and telephone number.

 

 

28

1917

Mrs. Harry KILLINGER YOUNG, widow of
W&L’s beloved Cy YouncG, gave a disco tea dance
at the Indian Creek Yacht and Country Club in
Kilmarnock, Va., on Oct. 27. Mrs. Young was
“Queen of the Ball” and led her own Grand
March in which all of her friends, regardless of
age, joined with the usual W&L spirit and gusto.
She was presented a W&L monogram sweater
and cap by Frank Jones Jr., ’38.

1919

T. H. (Hamp) SCOVELL is chairman of the board
of Scovell Oil Co., a distributor of Amoco Pro-
ducts in DeLand, Fla.

1920

Joun F. WHITE, retired from the hardware
business, manages a 900 acre farm in Cadiz, Ky.

1922

SAMUEL LOGAN SANDERSON, a retired educator
now living at Natural Bridge Station near Lex-
ington, is having a book published. Recently,
Sanderson climbed to the summit of House
Mountain.

1923
FRANK BENJAMIN Horr has published a book,
“A History of Ferrum College 1914-1974, An
Uncommon Challenge.” Hurt, who was among
a very few students admitted in 1913 to the new
Ferrum Training School, was commissioned by
the board of trustees of Ferrrum to write the
school’s history. He began work on the book in
February 1972. Hurt received his master’s in
economics from the University of Virginia and
his master’s in history from Princeton Univer-
sity. He has also studied at Johns Hopkins and
Harvard, and done work at the University of
North Carolina, Western Maryland College, the
University of Maryland, and Ferrum College.
He was named professor emeritus at Ferrum in

1970.

1924
E. ALMER AMES JR. continues to practice law
with his son, Edward A. Ames III, 61, ’64L, in
Onocock, Va. The name of their firm is Ames
and Ames.

1925

CLARENCE E. HINKLE is associated with the law
firm of Hinkle, Cox, Eaton, Coffield and Hens-
ley in Roswell, N. M., where he has a position of
counsel.

WILLIAM A. McRiTCcHIE, currently class agent,
retired in 1968 as vice president and senior
trust officer of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of
New York. He resides in Bronxville, N. Y.

 

E. ALMER AMES Jr. (See 1924.)

1926

The ALMAND R. COLEMAN chair, an endowed
professorship, has been established in the Col-
gate Darden Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration by the board of visitors of the Uni-
versity of Virginia. Coleman, professor emeritus
at the university, taught business administration
there from 1953 until 1976.

WILLIAM BuRKE WILLIAMSON, who practiced law
in Chicago for 50 years, is now living in Ashe-
ville, N. C. He maintains a connection with the
law firm in Chicago.

1927

GeorGE E. Burks of Louisville, Ky., still plays
golf with his foursome, who have played to-
gether since 1939. During the past 20 years, the
foursome, with rare exception, has attended
every W&L-Centre football game. They manage
-.0 play several golf courses on the weekend of
the game, including the courses at the Green-
brier and the Homestead.
4

1929 }

WILLIAM F. CHANDLER is retired as president of
the coating division of Porter Paint Co. He re-
sides in Louisville, Ky., where he continues to
do some consulting work and keeps active in
civic affairs and the seniors golf tournaments.

Roya B. EMBREE, on the faculty in the psychol-
ogy department at the University of Texas in
Austin, has retired from the university but has
been retained as a member of the faculty by a
provision of the Texas State Retirement Code.
Embree teaches one class each semester and
continues to clear up doctoral and master’s

papers.

BENJAMIN P. KNIGHT JR. and his sisters own B.
P. Knight and Co., a general store in Buena
Vista. Knight, who retired from the C&O Rail-
road in 1970, lives on his farm outside Buena
Vista.

A. L. LUNSFORD is owner and operator of the
Lunsford Farm Supply Co. in Brookneal, Va.
Among the products sold are seed, hardware,
Purina feeds for livestock and poultry.

WILLIAM G. SARGENT of Flushing, N. Y., con-
tinues to operate his industrial hardware busi-
ness.

1930

CHARLES W. COCKE continues to hold several
official positions with the National Association
of Retired Federal Employees. He is a member
of the executive board of the Federated Chap-
ters, the 2nd Congressional District field officer,

and chairman of the Membership Committee.
He is also a plantation guide for the Thomasville
—Thomas County Chamber of Commerce.

Dr. AND Mrs. Ipus DERRELL FELDER have re-
turned from a cruise down the Adriatic from
Venice to Athens. The couple, who traveled to
Copenhagen in June 1978 on the W&L tour,
where they met classmate Dr. and Mrs. George
Craddock, plan to travel to Spain in early 1979.

L. PALMER Brown (See 1951 Hollis.)

1931

Dr. LEONARD C. BORLAND is on the staff of
Friendship Manor, an institution in Roanoke,
Va., devoted to geriatrical care. His wife is a
concert pianist.

Jupcr THomas S. Fox, after surgery in 1974,
retired from the bench in January 1975. He
continues physical therapy and walks with a
knee brace and a cane.

Morton P. Levy lives in Portsmouth, Va., where
he is helping in the Senior Citizen Program.

1932

Dr. WILLIAM D. Hoyt of Rockport, Maine, re-
mains involved in many activities. Among his
professional and community commitments are
the curator of the Historical Society, vice chair-
man of the Historical Commission, the Historic
District Commission, and the Conservation
Commission.

R. H. Rurr retired in 1973 from the Appalachian
Power Co. after 38 years of service. A former
member of the board of Lions International, he
continues to be active in the Lions work in
Welch, W. Va.

In November 1978 JUDGE GEORGE RosE SMITH
was elected to a new eight-year term on the
Supreme Court of Arkansas. He was first elected
in 1948 at the age of 37.

1933

Tuomas S. Fox (See 1931.)

1935

WINSTON W. Brown retired as senior attorney
with United Energy Resources, formerly United
Gas Corp. He resides in his hometown of
Shreveport, La.

James M. FRANKLIN is completing his seventh
year on his church’s board of trustees. Retired
since 1975, Franklin and his wife keep busy with
church and community volunteer work, and
traveling. The couple resides in Pleasantville,
N. J.

LoyAL P. GassMAN retired in December 1978.

 

 

J. S. Bruce,

He and his wife spent Christmas in England
with their son, who is in the U.S. Air Force. The
Gassman’s expect to return home in March.

LeRoy HopcEs Jr. retired from the Foreign
Agricultural Service of the U. S. Department of
Agriculture as of January 1978. He now resides
in Richmond, Va.

1936

Hucu J. Bonino retired as president of Bostik
South Division of USM Corp. in October 1978.
He has started a new firm in Greenville, S. C.,
the Alva Inc., a distributor of chemical colors,
adhesives, coatings and equipment.

Joun T. Cover, of Staunton, Va., is regional
vice president (Southeast) with the Church Pen-
sion Fund, an affiliate of the Episcopal Church.

JorL Grayson III is vice president and part
owner of Bio Lab Inc., a manufacturer of
chemical components for swimming pools,
poultry, dairy, and janitorial supplies. His son,
Joel IV, is executive vice president of the firm.
Grayson is a director of the Southeastern
Swimming Pool Association and a director of
the Georgia Poultry Federation.

PauL G. HERVEY, after suffering a stroke, retired
as chairman of the psychology department of

Del Mar College. He had served public educa-

tion in Texas for 43 years.

Dr. KENNETH G. MacDona.p still practices sur-
gery in Charleston, W. Va. He is extremely in-
terested in boating and was elected vice division
captain of the 2nd Eastern District of the U. S.
Coast Guard Auxiliary. MacDonald is also com-
mander in chief of the Great Kanawha River
Navy, Inc., and an avid Rotarian.

Puivip H. MILNER, retired executive vice presi-
dent of Manufacturers Hanover Trust in New
York, lives in Key Largo, Fla. He continues to
serve on the board of directors of six corpora-
tions.

1937

JAMEs S. BRUCE, director of corporate relations,
has been named a senior vice president for
Eastman Kodak Co. Bruce has held a number
of management positions since joining the com-
pany in 1939. In 1976 he was named a vice
president and the following year was elected to
its board of directors.

GIVEN W. CLEEK retired from the Bureau of
Standards in 1974. He continues to do some
part-time consulting work.

1938

Tuomas A. MaALLoy JR. is a professor of sociol-
ogy at Ferris State College in Big Rapids, Mich.

29

TN

1939

EDWARD F. Burrows, after teaching history for
31 years at Guilford College in Greensboro,
N. C., plans to retire in May 1979.

CHARLES P. LyxEs is a director of Seaboard Coast
Line Railway System. He is also president of
Lykes Brothers, Inc. in Tampa, Fla. The firm
together with its subsidiaries, Lykes Pasco Pack-
ing Co. and Lykes Bros., Inc., of Georgia, are
primarily in agribusiness. They are associated
with ranching, packing plants, citrus, citrus
concentrate, forestry, sugar cane, and outdoor
recreational facilities. Lykes is also a director of
various other business and civic organizations.

Dr. EDGAR F. SHANNON JR., a Washington and
Lee Trustee and former president of the Uni-
versity of Virginia, was honored at the annual
fall convocation in Charlottesville. A new garden
in the west courtyard of the Rotunda was dedi-
cated to him. Shannon, a Tennyson scholar, is
Commonwealth Professor of English at the
University of Virginia.

1940

JAMEs H. Brerer has retired as chairman of the
board of Pittsburgh Corning Corp. He expects
to do considerable traveling.

W. B. “BLAKEY” WALKER lives in Forest, Va.,
where he is a manufacturer’s representative on
gift lines in six Southeastern states.

194]

CHARLES H. CHAPMAN JR., president of Chap-
man Corp. in Dothan, has been elected presi-
dent of the Alabama Chamber of Commerce.
The Chapman Corp. is in the construction, de-
velopment, and sales of commercial, residential
and industrial real estate. Chapman is a veteran
of World War II having served with the U. S.
Navy. His civic and business activities include
vice chairman of the board of directors of the
First National Bank of Dothan; director of
Southern Bancorporation; vice chairman,
board of directors of the Dothan Oil Mill Co.;
vice president and director of the Twitchell
Corp.; elder, First Presbyterian Church; presi-
dent of Dothan-Houston County Rotary Club
and a member of the board of visitors, School of
Commerce, University of Alabama.

Jack W. Warner, Trustee of Washington and
Lee University and president of Gulf States
Paper Corp., has received the “Good Turn
Award” by the Black Warrior Council of the
Boy Scouts of America. In making the pres-
entation the Scout executive stated, “This award
tonight is being presented to a company and its
president who believe in making our community
a better place to live. They are involved in vir-
tually every aspect of our community life . . .”
Warner served on the Council’s Exploring

30

Committee in 1972, its executive board from
1973 to 1977, and currently serves as a member
at-large.

1942

W. Joun Daniet (See 1951 Hollis.)

1943

J. TyLer Bowie, formerly with G. Calvert
Bowie, Inc., a mortgage banking firm in Wash-
ington, D. C., retired in 1971 and moved to
Hilton Head Island, S. C. Bowie is currently the
president of Moss Creek Development Corp., a
subsidiary of the Northwestern Mutual Life In-
surance Co. of Milwaukee. He continues to be a
tournament golfer and was tournament director
for the Sea Pines Heritage Golf Classic 1973-75,
and also for the Women’s International at Moss
Creek 1976-78. Bowie is also the 1975 Champion
of Sea Pines Club.

1944

HuGuH ASHCRAFT is president of Harris-Teeter
Super Markets, Inc., a retail grocery chain with
76 retail stores in North Carolina. Ashcraft re-
sides in Charlotte, N. C.

R. BRuCE QuaAYLE has been elected a vice presi-
dent of Columbia Gas System Service Corp. of
Wilmington, Del. Quayle joined the Service
Corp. in 1969 as director of public relations.
Before joining Columbia he was director of
public relations for the Sinclair Oil Corp. and
had been with that organization from 1952.
Quayle has been a member of the public rela-
tions committees of the American Gas Associa-
tion and the Interstate Natural Gas Association
of America and active in other intra-industry
information organizations. He and his wife have
four children.

Co. CHARLES E. SAVEDGE, headmaster of Au-
gusta Military Academy in Fort Defiance, Va.,
was honored in October by the Newspaper Fund
in New York City as the 1978 National High
School Journalism Teacher of the Year. A grant,
given to Augusta Military Academy, where Col.
Savedge is also a journalism teacher and advisor
to the yearbook, will help establish the Journa-
lism Learning Center at the school’s library.
The yearbook at Augusta Military Academy has
received the Medalist, the highest rating of the
Columbia Scholastic Press Association, every
year since 1959. Savedge is past president of the
Columbia Scholastic Press Association and he
has won the Medal of Merit from the Journalism
Education Association. This year he was design
editor of Photography Fundamentals for Stu-
dent Photo-journalists and a contributing editor
for the latest edition of Newspaper Funda-
mentals, a text for high schools.

ROBERT H. SEAL, president and director of the
National Bank of Commerce in San Antonio,

Texas, has been elected a moderator of the
Presbyterian Synod of Red River. The Synod
includes the states of Texas, Oklahoma, Arkan-
sas, and Louisiana. Seal has served as a member
of the Division of Ministerial Relations in Del
Salvador Presbytery and is an elder in the First
Church, San Antonio. He is also a member of
the board of directors for the Texas Presbyterian
Foundation.

Dr. LLoyp H. SMITH Jr. has served 14 years as
chairman of the Department of Medicine at the
University of California, San Francisco. He is
president of the Association of Professors of
Medicine and an overseer of Harvard Univer-
sity.

1945

W. E. FRYE is a teacher in the city school system
of Santa Barbara, Calif.

FRANK MARKOE Jr., vice chairman of the War-
ner-Lambert Co., has been elected a director of
the New Jersey State Chamber of Commerce.

1946
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. T. RyLanp Dopson, a
daughter, Amy, on Jan. 9, 1978. Dodson has
recently been appointed district judge of the
22nd Judicial District.

1947

ROBERT A. MOSBACHER, whose business, estab-
lished in 1948, now has oil and gas operations in
all of the Gulf States, many other states in the
U.S., and in Canada, is currently director of the
Texas Heart Institute, American Petroleum In-
stitute, and Texas Commerce Bancshares. He is
also a member of the National Petroleum
Council and the Joint Operating Committee for
St. Luke’s and Texas Children’s Hospital. He is
the immediate past chairman of the board of
visitors of M. D. Anderson Hospital. Mosbacher
is still active in sailing and particularly boat rac-
ing. He was considering the 1976 Olympics when
he was appointed national finance chairman for
the President Ford Committee. Prior to this, he
had won second place in the 1965 Olympic trials
in the Dragon Class and, in 1969, second place
in the World Championships in Spain. In 1957,
Mosbacher was part of the crew of a boat, owned
by Alfred Fay, which won the Gold Cup (5.5
meter) in Norway. Mosbacher is a member of
the Texas Corinthian Yacht Club and won the
Atlantic Cup Championship held at Southport,
Conn., in 1942, his first big boating win.

T. RYLAND Dopson (See 1946.)

1948

Howarp M. FENDER has been appointed district
judge of Criminal District Court #2 in Fort
Worth, Texas. He has served as district attorney

 

 

   

J. P.B owen Jr. 5 T

and assistant district attorney general in Texas.

1949

BRIAN BELL is counselor for public affairs at the
American Embassy in Santiago, Chile.

GLENN CuHarFer is selling real estate—specializ-
ing in waterfront condominiums—in the Strat-
ford, Conn., region. He and his wife have four
daughters and two grandchildren.

THOMAS W. TUCKER is president of the Bank of
Lubeck in Parkersburg, W. Va.

‘THOMAS S. Hook is acting chief, Public Inquiry
Center, Federal Aviation Administration, in
Washington, D. C. He received special achieve-
ment awards in 1977 and 1978.

1950

WILLIAM G. (GILL) Brooks has been made chief
financial officer and business manager of the
Boys Latin School in Baltimore, Md.

ROBERT VAN BurREN, chairman of Midlantic Na-
tional Bank of Newark, N. J., has recently re-
ceived considerable publicity in the Wall Street
Journal with the bank’s “Hungry Banker
Awards.” The advertisements feature the var-
ious heads of the bank’s departments as well as
the individual employees.

R. DABNEY CHAPMAN remains in Berlin, Ger-
many, with the U. S. Mission as director of In-
ternational Communication Agency (formerly
USIA).

Dr. WILLIAM J. GARDNER III of Ogden, has
been elected president of the Utah State Medical
Association.

Houston Harte, chairman of the board of
Harte-Hanks Communications, Inc., has be-
come a director of Frost Bank in San Antonio,
Texas. The Harte-Hanks firm owns and oper-
ates 26 newspapers and 61 non-daily publica-
tions in 34 markets. It also owns television and
radio stations in four states including Texas.
Harte sits on boards of several organizations
including the Cancer Therapy and Research
Foundation of Southwest Texas, and Com-
munications Properties, Inc., of Austin. He is a
former member of the board of visitors of the
U.S. Air Force Academy.

W. DonaLD MUNSON Jp. is associate pastor of
the First Presbyterian Church of Henderson-
ville, N. C. He was formerly the director of
development at Montreat-Anderson College.

1951

JOHN P. BOWEN JR., associate editor of the Tzmes-
Herald, in Newport News, Va., has been reap-
pointed to the Virginia Travel Advisory Com-

mittee by Gov. John Dalton. He was first ap-
pointed to the committee, which is charged with
maintaining liaison between travel promotion
activities of the Commonwealth and the private
sector, by former Gov. Mills E. Godwin in 1974.

J. ALAN Cross is a CPA in Coral Gables, Fla. He
also has experience in insurance, securities and
real estate. A former chairman of the Citizens
Budget Advisory Commission for Coral Gables,
he serves many varied community organiza-
tions. He is also a tournament bridge life master,

an accredited sports umpire, and a retired lieu-
tenant commander with the Naval Reserve.

SAM B. HOLLIs, president of Southwide, Inc., of
Memphis, Tenn., was instrumental in the pur-
chase, by Southwide, of another cotton-service
company, Delta and Pine Land Co. of Scott,
Miss. W. JOHN DANIEL, ’42, is president of Delta
and Pine Land. Southwide is the parent com-
pany of Federal Compress and Warehouse Co.;
Delta and Pine Land markets the popular Del-
tapine cotton varieties. Southwide is also the

 

CHAPTER PRESIDENTS

Appalachian—Robert A. Vinyard, 70, Smith, Robinson & Vin-
yard, 117 W. Main St., Abingdon, Va. 24210

Atlanta—John Hines, 63, Trust Co. Bank, P. O. Box 4418,
Atlanta, Ga. 30302

Augusta-Rockingham—Ross V. Hersey, ’40, 1060 Lyndhurst
Rd., Waynesboro, Va. 22980

Baltimore—James J. Dawson, ’68, ’71L, Cable, McDaniel, Bowie
& Bond, The Blaustein Bldg., Baltimore, Md. 21201
Birmingham—David R. Pittman, ’75, The John G. Pittman
Agency, 1101 S. 22nd St., Birmingham, Ala. 35203

Blue Ridge—H. Dan Winter III, 69, Route |, Box 4, Fairgrove,
Earlysville, Va. 22936

Central Florida—Warren E. Wilcox Jr., ’57, Sun First Natl.
Bank of Orlando, P.O. Box 3833, Orlando, Fla. 32897
Central Mississippi—Joseph P. Wise, ’74, P.O. Box 651, Jack-
son, Miss. 39205

Charleston—Louie A. Paterno Jr., 65, 68L, 710 Commerce 7

Square, Charleston, W. Va. 25301

Charlotte—Gary L. Murphy, ’70, 1925 Shoreham Dr., Char-
lotte, N.C. 28211

Chattanooga—Lex Tarumianz Jr., 69, ’72L, 111 Maclellan
Bldg., 721 Broad St., Chattanooga, Tenn. 37402
Chicago—Stanley A. Walton, ’62, ’65L, Winston and Strawn,
One First Natl. Plaza, Suite 5000, Chicago, Ill. 60670 —
Cleveland—Sidmon J. Kaplan, 56, Landseair Inc., 1228 Euclid
Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44115

Cumberland Valley—R. Noel Spence, ’56, ’58L, 123 W. Wash-
ington St., Hagerstown, Md. 21740

Dallas—J. Harvey Allen Jr., 61, 3919 Cobblestone Dr., Dallas,
Texas 75229

Delaware—Benjamin M. Sherman, ’75, 9-C Anthony Circle,
Newark, Del. 19702

DelMarVa—Ernest I. Cornbrooks III, ’67, Webb, Burnett &
Simpson, 115 Broad St., Salisburv, Md. 21801
Detroit—James W. Large, 68, 406 Mt. Vernon, Grosse Pointe,
Mich. 48236

Eastern North Uarolina—E. B. Vaden Jr., 69, 3519 Turn-
bridge Dr., Raleigh, N.C. 27609

Florida West Coast—George Harvey Jr., 63, WFLA-TV, 905
Jackson St., Tampa, Fla. 33601

Fort Worth—Rice M. Tilley Jr., 58, Law, Snakard, Brown &
Gambill, Fort Worth Natl. Bank Bldg., Fort Worth, Texas 76102
Gulf Stream— Mercer K. Clarke, ’66, Smathers & Thompson,
1301 Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131
Houston—W. B. Oglivie Jr., 64, Office of Executive V.P., Baylor
College of Medicine, Texas Medical Center, Houston, Texas
77030

Jacksonville—William H. Jeter Jr., 71, Adams & Adams, 314
Duval Federal Bldg., 135 W. Bay St., Jacksonville, Fla. 32202
Kansas City—Henry Nottberg III, 71, U.S. Engineering Co.,
3433 Roanoke Rd., Kansas City, Mo. 64111

Little Rock— William F. Rector Jr., 70, 506 N. Elm St., Little
Rock, Ark. 72205

Long Island—Jeff Wexler, ’69, The Oceanside Beacon, Box
126, Oceanside, N.Y. 11572

Louisville—Charles W. Dobbins Jr., ’70, 222 S. Birchwood
Ave., Louisville, Ky. 40206

Lynchburg—Cecil W. Taylor, ’39, ’41L, 3844 Peakland Place,
Lynchburg, Va. 24503

Mid-South— Jody Brown, ’65, Box 77, Memphis, Tenn. 38101
Middle Tennessee—Ben S. Gambill Jr., 67, Briad Electric Co.,
1100 Demonbrun Viaduct, Nashville, Tenn. 37215

Mobile— McGowin I. Patrick, 60, P.O. Box 69, Mobile, Ala.
36601

Montgomery—J. Michael Jenkins III, 64, 1655 Gilmer Ave.,
Montgomery, Ala. 36104

New England—Charles W. Pride, ’72, Sexton Can Co., 31 Cross
St., Everett, Mass., 02149

New Orleans— Richard K. Christovich, 68, 1208 Pine St., New
Orleans, La. 70118

New York— John M. Ellis, 56, HAUS International, 1212 Ave-
nue of The Americas, New York, N.Y. 10036

Northern California—Richard L. Kuersteiner, ’61, 1808 Black
Mountain Rd., Hillsborough, Calif. 94010

Northwest Louisiana—John Madison Jr., 64, Wilner, Weiss,
Madison & Howell, 411 Commercial National Bank Bldg.,
Shreveport, La. 71101

Oklahoma City—John C. McMurry, ’66, 219 Couch Dr., Okla-
homa City, Okla. 73102

Palm Beach-Fort Lauderdale—Nicholas S. Smith, 63, 2910
Okeechobee Blvd., W. Palm Beach, Fla. 33401
Palmetto—John W. Folsom, ’73, South Carolina Federal Savings
& Loan Assn., P.O. Box 69, Columbia, S.C. 29202
Peninsula—Benjamin A. Williams, ’71, 134 Hampton Roads
Ave., Hampton, Va. 23661

Pensacola— Robert D. Hart Jr., 63, 3985 Piedmont Rd., Pensa-
cola, Fla. 32503

Philadelphia— Edward W. Coslett III, ’70, 64 Paxon Hollow
Rd., Media, Pa. 19063

Piedmont— James S. Mahan III, ’73, Wachovia Bank & Trust
Co., Box 3099, Winston-Salem, N.C. 27104
Pittsburgh—Richard M. Johnson, 56, Hillman Company, 2000
Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219

Richmond—Robert H. Yevich, ’70, 6931 Navaho Rd., Rich-
mond, Va. 23225

Roanoke— William L. Andrews III, ’72, 430 Canterbury Lane,
Roanoke, Va. 24014

Rockbridge—P. B. Winfree III, ’59, P.O. Box 948, Lexington,
Va. 24450

San Antonio—Ralph E. Lehr Jr., 73, 10 Elmcourt, San Antonio,
Texas 78209

St. Louis— Wallace D. Niedringhaus Jr., 66, 330 Oakley Lane,
St. Louis, Mo. 63122

South Carolina Piedmont—I. Langston Donkle III, ’74, P. O.
Box 695, Greenville, S. C. 29602
Southern California—Frank A. McCormick, ’53, Box 1762,
Santa Ana, Calif. 92702

Southern Ohio— Thomas P. Winborne, 51, ’53L, 3510 Arnold
Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45226

Southside Virginia—H. Victor Millner Jr.,’54, ’60L, Vansant &
Millner, Drawer 110, Chatham, Va. 24531
Tidewater—Richard C. Burroughs, 68, 409 Yarmouth St.,
Norfolk, Va. 23510

Tri State—Charles F. Bagley III, ’69L, Box 1835, Huntington,,
W. Va. 25719

Tulsa—John C. Martin III, 78, 2462 E. 30th St., Tulsa, Okla.
74114

Upper Potomac— Albert D. Darby, ’43, 507 Cumberland St.,
Cumberland, Md. 21502

Washington—James A. Meriwether, ’70, Arthur Andersen &
Co., 1666 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006
Westchester/Fairfield Co.— Chester T. Smith, 53, 108 Inwood
Rd., Darien, Conn. 06820

West Texas—Stephen H. Suttle, 62, 1405 Woodland Trail,
Abilene, Texas 79605

Wisconsin— Price M. Vavis Jr., 36, 10060 N. Range Line Rd.,
Mequon, Wisc. 53092

31

parent company of L. P. Brown Co., which is
headed by L. PALMER Brown, ’30. The Brown
firm is a supplier of bale packaging materials.
Hollis said Delta and Pine Land will continue to
operate under the same name and manage-
ment. He added that Southwide is interested in
further expansion in agribusiness and _ has
formed a farm management company.

WarkREN L. SNEAD, president of Bob Smith Con-
struction Co. of Greeneville, Tenn., has been
elected to the Tusculum College board of trus-
tees. Snead is active in church and civic affairs in
Greeneville.

1952

FLETCHER McCLINTOCK is employed by the
Ranger Oil Co. as South Louisiana district ex-
ploration geologist. He was formerly with
Michigan Wisconsin Pipeline Co.

1953

Dr. T. Kyte Creson Jr. has left his private
practice and is now associated with the Medical
Group in Memphis, Tenn., practicing internal
medicine and hematology.

Dr. JOHN D. Macuireg, president of State Uni-
versity of New York, College of Old Westbury,
was among 100 young educators featured in the
magazine Change in October 1978. The survey
in a sense “is a supplement to ‘Who’s Who in
Higher Education.’ ” Maguire recently delivered
the William P. Fenn lectures on “Asian and
American Universities” at 20 universities in
seven Asian countries.

ALDEN M. (PETE) P1TaRD has been promoted to
chief of administration at Kennedy Space Center
for Planning Research Corporation’s Systems
Services Co., Florida Division. In his new as-
signment, he will have responsibilities for the
business functions supporting PRC’s design en-
gineering contract which includes finance, con-
tract administration, industrial relations, and
administrative services. Prior to joining PRC in
1975, Pitard was director of manpower training
for Brevard Community College. He also spent
15 years with the Boeing Co. in Seattle, Wash.,
and Cape Canaveral, Fla. At one time he was
industrial and labor relations manager for Boe-
ing during Apollo and Skylab. He and his wife,
Barbara, have three children.

DaniEL E. Popovicy has been named senior
account representative for the polyethylene di-
vision of the plastics department of Exxon
Chemical USA. Popovich resides in Atlanta, Ga.,
and is responsible for accounts throughout the
Southeast. He has been employed with Exxon
in various Capacities since 1959.

Joun A. WILLIAMSON, founder and chairman of
the board of California Plan, Inc., with offices
in Santa Clara, Calif., has been elected a trustee

32

 

   

A. M. Pitard, ’53

of the Hill School. Williamson is also founder
and board chairman of Exchange Security
Corp. and of California Consumer Plan. He
also founded and is president of Cal Delta De-
velopment Co.

1954
Larry C. PALMER is with COMSAT Laboratories
in Washington, D. C. In October 1978 he at-
tended the 29th Congress of the International
Astronautical Federation in Dubrovnik, Yugo-
slavia and presented a paper, “Future Trends
in Communication Satellite Systems.”

1955

THe Rev. WILLIAM L. DOLs, rector of Im-
manual-on-the-Hill Episcopal Church in Alex-
andria, Va., was guest preacher at the Trinity
Cathedral in Columbia, S. C., on Thanksgiving
weekend. Dols has served churches in Mary-
land, North Carolina and Virginia. Since his
church is on the campus of Virginia Seminary,
he preaches each Sunday to faculty and stu-
dents.

CHARLES F. PATTERSON JR. was elected president
of the 325 member Consumer Bankers Associa-
tion at its national convention in November
1978. Patterson is a group vice president at
Trust Co. Bank in Atlanta, Ga., and is a trustee
of the Graduate School of Consumer Banking
at the University of Virginia.

1956

WiLuiaM H. Houston III, an agribusinessman
from Tunica, Miss., has been elected to the board
of directors of First Tennessee Bank, N.A. of
Memphis, Tenn. Houston is a director of Le-
Bonheur Children’s Hospital and director of
the 16-county Delta Council, the chamber of
commerce in Mississippi.

1957

LAWRENCE A. ATLER, an attorney in Denver, is
the entrepreneur and partner-developer of a
large restaurant in an Old English Tudor manor
in Denver, Colo. Atler and his two partners
have spent the past 2% years restoring and ex-
panding the 1920 mansion. The new complex is
known as the Wellshire Inn. There are two res-
taurants, the Windmill and the Dutchman, both
under the same roof, offering different cuisine
and atmosphere.

LAWRENCE B. CLARK is senior engineer with
Michael Baker Jr. Inc., Engineers and Survey-
ors, with offices in Jackson, Miss.

Capt. THomas E. Lonwreey Jr. is serving as Force
Judge Advocate for Commander Naval Surface
Forces, U. S. Pacific Fleet, in San Diego, Calif.

1958

MARRIAGE: Puiipre C. LAaBro and Francoise

C. F. Patterson Jr, 55

   

Coulon on Aug. 12, 1978, in East Hampton, N.Y.
Labro is a film director and journalist residing
in Paris.

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. RICHARD A. Davis, ason,
Richard Hill, on Aug. 29, 1978. This is the
second son for the Davises, who reside in Char-
lotte, N. C.

GerorGE Doucuty Hiccs has been elected to
the board of trustees of Tusculum College of
Greeneville, Tenn. Higgs lives in Mountain
Lakes, N. J., and is president of Carex Health
Care Products, Inc., of Newark. He was preced-
ed on the board by his mother, Mrs. Josephine
Doughty Higgs of Greeneville, and his grand-
father, George Willis Doughty.

Rurus L. SAFForp operates the Serendipity Inn,
a restaurant in Mill Harbour, St. Croix, Virgin
Islands.

1959

C. DuBosE (DuBy) AUSLEY, former chairman of
the Florida State Ethics Commission and a Talla-
hassee attorney, has been named to Florida’s
board of regents, which runs the state university
system. Ausley, a member of the Constitution
Revision Commission, is also chairman of the
Florida State University Council of Advisers and
a member of the Florida State University
Foundation board of directors.

JOHN EsPeERIAN is in his third year as headmaster
of Linden Hall School in Lititz, Pa., one of the
oldest girls schools in the United States.

THOMAS R. GOWENLOCK is vice president in
charge of oil and gas tax-sheltered investments
for Pennaco Resources Corp., a drilling activity
located throughout Texas and Oklahoma.

Davip C. POTEET is president of Crawford Pub-
lishing Co. He resides in Danville, Va., and is
also executive director of Evangelical Caucus.

May. B. R. WILKERSON is head of the Energy
Conservation and Environmental Protection
Program for Fort Campbell, Ky. Wilkerson re-
signed from the U. S. Army in 1976.

1961
MARRIAGE: Dr. Cuar-es E. BusH and Carolee
Silcox in January 1978. Bush is chairman of the
architecture department at Thomas Nelson
Community College in Hampton, Va. The cou-
ple resides in Williamsburg.

MARRIAGE: WALTER J. CRATER JR. and Lynn
Keenan on Aug. 26, 1978. The couple resides in
Arlington, Va., where Crater is the senior pro-
grams engineer at System Consultants, Inc.

WILLIAM M. Bow EN was elected recently to the
Beaufort (S.C.) County Council. He is a partner

 

  

Dr. E. D. Vaughan Jr.,’61 K.D. Martin, 62.

in the Hilton Head Island firm of Bowen,
Cooper, Beard & Smoot.

Dr. WILLIAM J. FIDLER is a pathologist at the
Methodist Hospital in Memphis, Tenn.

ROBERT FUNKHOUSER is vice president for sales
of Choice Vend located in Windsor Locks,
Conn. His responsibilities include the develop-
ment of a marketing effort and assisting the
regional managers. He and his wife, Barb, have
a son and a daughter.

Compr. Hayes I. Gorpon and family have been
transferred to Newport, R. I., where he is at-
tending the senior officer warfare course at the
Naval War College.

E. DARRACOTT VAUGHAN JR., a noted urologist
and clinical investigator, has been appointed
attending surgeon-in-charge of the urology di-
vision at the New York Hospital and head of the
division of urology, Cornell University Medical
College in New York City. Vaughan succeeds
another Washington and Lee alumnus, Victor
F. Marshall, ’34, who has been associated with
the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center
since 1937. Vaughan was a professor in the
department of urology at the University of Vir-
ginia School of Medicine. He joined the faculty
there as an assistant professor in 1971. After
several months he left Virginia to go to Columbia
University’s Department of Medicine where he
remained for two years, first as clinical research
fellow and later as research associate. From
1971-1973 he also was a special fellow in urol-
ogy, U. S. Public Health Service. Vaughan
trained from 1965 to 1967 at Vanderbilt Uni-
versity, Nashville, and for four years at the Uni-
versity of Virginia School of Medicine. For one
year while at the University of Virginia he was
under the National Institute of Health, Urology
Training Grant. His academic honors include
membership in Alpha Omega Alpha, national
honor medical society, election to membership
in the Southern Society for Clinical Research
and Sigma Xi, national honorary society de-
voted to the encouragement of scientific re-
search. Vaughan was a member of the board of
directors, University of Virginia Medical Alumni
Association; faculty advisor for Alpha Epsilon
Delta; and chairman, pre-medical student ad-

 

  

visory sub-committee, University of Virginia
Medical Alumni. Vaughan also serves on the
Scientific Advisory Board of the National Kidney
Foundation and is secretary-treasurer of its
urology council. He is also a member of the
medical advisory board of the American Heart
Association’s council for high blood pressure
research. He and his wife reside in Manhattan
and have a son and a daughter.

1962
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. RoBerT A. COUNCIL JR.,
a fourth child, Justin Hodges, on June 27, 1978.
The family resides in Benton, Ark., where
Council practices obstetrics and gyneocology.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. STEPHEN W. RUTLEDGE,
a daughter, Jordan Covalt, on Sept. 21, 1978.
This is the second child for the Rutledge’s, who
also have ason. Rutledge is associate advertising
manager in the food division of Proctor and
Gamble. He is responsible for all marketing
activities throughout the United States relating
to the company’s Duncan Hines products. The
family resides in Cincinnati, Ohio.

Dr. STEPHEN R. CHERNAY of Hopewell Junction,
N. Y., is in the practice of pediatrics. He is a
member of the Dutchess County Board of
Health, a member of the executive committee
of the Dutchess County Medical Society, and in
the business of raising thoroughbred horses on
his farm.

W. Hayne Hipp has been named chief executive
officer of Liberty Corp., and chairman of Liberty
Life Insurance Co., Liberty Corporation’s larg-
est unit.

K. DOUGLAS MARTIN is now in Atlanta, Ga., as
president and chief executive officer of Scripto
Inc. The firm is composed of four divisions, all
of which are in the fields of writing instruments
or disposable lighters.

1963
BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. OMER LEE JETER JR., a
daughter, Laura Lee, on April 28, 1978. This is
the fourth daughter for the Jeters, who reside
in Orange Park, Fla.

COMING IN THE NEXT ISSUE

Fancy Dress 1979
8
Marion Junkin Memorial
Art Exhibition

Dr. R. THomas Epwarbs is practicing internal
medicine and cardiology in Roanoke, Va. He is
chief of medicine at the Community Hospital
and president of the Roanoke Valley Heart As-
sociation. Edwards was recently selected as an
alumni member of AOA, honorary medical
society at the University of Virginia School of
Medicine.

STEPHEN GUILD is associate director of education
in a graduate research center at the University
of Massachusetts in Amherst.

Epwarp W. Homes holds an association pro-
fessorship of medicine and an assistant pro-
fessorship of biochemistry at Duke University
Medical School.

Warren B. Hucuss is vice president of Wills-
grant Marketing Communications in Philadel-
phia, Pa.

Dr. E. Ross KyGEr III, of Houston, Texas, and
Worthington Brown Jr., 62, of Memphis,
‘Tenn., were recently reunited on the main street
of Carmel, Calif. They adjourned immediately
to the Hog’s Breath Tavern where they discussed
the more austere and metaphysical aspects of
the Washington and Lee curriculum.

Capt. JOHN G. S. WIGGINS is serving as a wea-
pons-systems officer with a unit of the Alaskan
Air Command at Elmendorf Air Force Base,
Alaska. Wiggins was previously at Clark Air
Base in the Philippines.

SHERWOOD W. (Woopy) WISE JR., a professor at
Florida State University in Tallahassee, served
as chief scientist on a 54 day multi-disciplinary
cruise (marine geology, geophysics, and physical
oceanography) of the Ara Islas Orcadas to the
Antarctic Ocean as part of a cooperative research
program between the U. S. National Science
Foundation and the Argentine Government.

1964
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JOHN Harris KIRKLEY, a
daughter, Sunnie Marie, on Aug. 23, 1978.
Kirkley is a staff member of the News World in
New York City.

 

   

J. F. Williams IT, ’65 L. N. Miller Jr., 66
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. W. B. (Buck) OGILVIE
Jr., a son, William Buckner III, on Dec. 21,
1978. This is the fourth child for the Ogilvies,
who have a son and two daughters. Ogilvie is in
the office of the executive vice president of
Baylor College of Medicine in Houston, Texas.

CraliG S. CROCKARD is vice president of Avondale
Mills in Sylacauga, Ala. He was formerly with
Blue Jay Knitting Mills in Weaverville, N. C.

Epwarb S. Crort III is first vice president in
the corporate finance department of the Robin-
son-Humphrey Co., Inc., an investment banking
firm headquartered in Atlanta, Ga. In addition,
Croft had started a company in Montgomery,
Ala. He continues his community activities in-
cluding coaching his 9-year old son’s basketball
team and his 8-year old daughter’s soccer team.
He also is in his third year as canvass director of
his church.

Joun D. Eure Jr. practices law in Suffolk, Va.
He and his wife have two children.

Dr. KEN E. GREER is on the faculty of the Uni-
versity of Virginia Medical School in Char-
lottesville. He is also on the board of directors of
the University of Virginia Medical Alumni As-
sociation and serves on the admissions commit-
tee for the medical school. Greer is married to
the former Louise Lyle of Norfolk.

WILLIAM A. JEFFREYS has been elected president
and director of Export Management Corpora-
tion, an international marketing and manage-
ment firm in New York City.

DoucG.Las McDowELt is vice president in muni-
cipal bond sales at Ehrlich-Bober and Co. in
New York. McDowell, his wife, three sons and a
daughter reside in Gladstone, N. J.

RICHARD J. Tavss has opened a new office for
the general practice of law in Norfolk, Va.

REx H. Woo.pribcE has joined the Houston,
Texas, architectural firm of Kendall, Weather-
ford and Associates. He and his wife, Lisa, have
two daughters.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. GEorGE F. MADISON, a
daughter, Sarah Pierce, on May 20, 1978. This
is the second child for the Madisons, who also

have a 2-year.old son. They reside in Bastrop,
La.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. J. LInDsEy SHORT, twins,
Shelley Farish and Sidney Fitzhugh, on Oct. 3,
1978. Short is a practicing attorney in Houston,
Texas.

JoHN L. MENDELL owns Broussard Green-
houses, a wholesale greenhouse operation, in
Lafayette, La. Mendell and his wife, Helen, a

34

practicing attorney, have two children, Eliza-
beth, 5, and John, 2.

WALTER H. (Rusty) RYLAND has been appointed
as chief deputy to Virginia’s Attorney General,
J. Marshall Coleman. Ryland became associated
with the attorney general’s office in 1968.

Roy D. STALLINGs JR. has been appointed to the
school board of Newport News, Va. Stallings is
senior vice president of Fidelity American Bank
and is active on the boards of the Peninsula
Boy’s Club, Nature and Science Center, and
Counselling Services.

J. F. WrxuiaMs III, newly elected president of
the Richmond Real Estate firm of Harrison &
Bates, Inc., has also been elected to the board of
directors of Bank of Virginia. Williams joined
Harrison & Bates in 1971 after five years of
sales experience with Custom Business Forms,
Inc. He is president-elect and a director of the
Richmond Board of Realtors, a member of the
Big Brothers of Richmond, and a former vice
president and director of Junior Achievement
of Richmond.

1966

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBERT R. BALDwIn, a
son, Robert R. Jr., on April 5, 1978. Baldwin is
assistant general counsel in the tax section of
the law department for Metropolitan Life In-
surance Co. The Baldwins reside in Chatham,
N. J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. KENNETH L. BERNHARDT,
a daughter, Karen, in Washington, D. C. Bern-
hardt is on a federal faculty fellowship grant
working as consumer research advisor for the
Bureau of Consumer Protection at the Federal
Trade Commission.

Dr. F. Scott KENNEDY, an associate professor
of biochemistry and molecular biology at the
Louisiana State University of Medicine in
Shreveport, has been named secretary of the
Northwest Louisiana Section of the American
Chemical Society.

Lewis N. MILLER JR. has been designated chief
financial officer of Central National Bank of
Richmond by its board of directors. Miller was
senior vice president and manager of the finan-
cial group. He also serves on the board of direc-
tors of Miller Manufacturing Co., Inc., and the
Virginia League for Planned Parenthood.

CHARLES W. REESE JR. has been named assistant
general counsel for Kaiser Cement & Gypsum
Corp. in Oakland, Calif. Reese joined the Kaiser
organization in 1975 as an attorney for Kaiser
Industries. In 1977 he joined the legal staff of
Kaiser Cement. Prior to joining Kaiser Indus-
tries, Reese was an attorney with the San Fran-
cisco law firm of McCutchen, Doyle, Brown and
Enersen.

   

I. L. Donkle IIT, ’74

1967

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JEFF Twarpy, a daugh-
ter, Elizabeth Ellsworth, on Nov. 1, 1978. Twar-
dy is in private law practice in Alexandria, Va.

KEvIN C. Ear_E has graduated from the masters
of divinity program at the Assemblies of God
Graduate School in Springfield, Mo. He was
recently appointed supervisor, Teen Challenge
Center in Muskegon, Mich. He is married to the
former Patricia Lynn, a 1974 graduate of Cen-
tral Bible College, who has been appointed
educational director of the Muskegon pro-
gram.

WALTER H. RYLAND (See 1965.)

1968

MARRIAGE: Davin E. Bass and Jane E. Sullivan
on March 4, 1978, in Ilion, N. Y. Bass resides in
Vienna, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. C. Howarp Capito, a
son, John Wylie, on Nov. 16, 1978, in Louisville,
Ky. Capito is employed by Citizens Fidelity Bank
and Trust Co.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Mouton S. DOWLER
Jr., a daughter, Emily Morton, on March 4,
1978. Dowler is an attorney with the firm of
Gresham, Davis, Gregory, Worthy and Moore
in San Antonio, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. D. WHITNEY THORNTON
II, a son, Bryan Whitney, on Sept. 19, 1977.
Whitney practices law in Washington, D. C.

JOHN S. ANDERSON is now associated with Pan-
handle Eastern Pipe Line Co. in Houston,
‘Texas.

James H. Krersky is an assistant professor of
philosophy at the Georgia Institute of Technol-
ogy. Kiersky, his wife and two daughters, reside
in Atlanta, Ga.

1969

ALAN H. Cooperisa reporter for the Richmond
News Leader. Cooper graduated from the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School in May 1977.

J. BARTON Goopwin has been promoted to vice
president in the private placement department
of Kidder, Peabody and Company, investment
bankers. Goodwin resides in New York City
with his wife and infant daughter, Carson.

RONALD B. HEAD is assistant dean for career
services at Mary Washington College in Fred-
ericksburg, Va. Head received his Ph.D. in
higher education from the University of Virginia
in May 1978.

STEPHEN A. SHARP has resigned as legal assistant
to Federal Communications Commissioner,

 

 

At the wedding of Harold R. Howe Jr., 76, were (Ist row) Burt
Bartlett, ’78; Stowe Rose, 78; Ben Philpott, 75, ’78L; Matt
Calvert, ’75, 79L; (2nd row) Kim Ratliff, ’76; Howe; Mrs.
Howe; Doug Faris, ’76; (3rd row) Bill Thompson, ’76; Rodney
Cook, ’78; Scott Stevenson, ’76; Paul S. Cobb, ’78; Peter Lami,
76; John Wheatley, ’78; Paul Vavala, 76; Tom Hunter, ’77;
Morris Newell (Davidson alumnus), and Phil Boger, ’75.

Margita E. White, in order to enter private law
practice. Sharp is now associated with the
Washington, D. C., office of Schnader, Harri-
son, Segal and Lewis. Sharp has been with the
FCC since 1972 except for a one year absence in
1974 to serve as counsel to the Impeachment
Inquiry of the House of Representative’s Com-
mittee on the Judiciary.

CHRISTIAN STRALEY received the M.S. degree in
chemistry from the University of Delaware in
June 1978.

EDWIN B. VADEN JR. has been business editor of
the News and Observer in Raleigh, N. C., since
September 1978. He had been reporting on
state government for the paper since March

1977.

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RicHAarD T. SCRUGGS
JR., a daughter, Sarah Palmer, on July 8, 1978.
Scruggs is employed as project manager for the
Fisk Electric Co., an engineering and contracting
firm with main offices in Houston, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RoBErt P. Trovr, ason,
Robert Carter, on March 28, 1978. The ‘Trouts
reside in Silver Spring, Md. j
Dr. FRANK E. FISHER is in a two-year program in
endocrinology and metabolism at the University
of California, San Francisco.

CLINTON B. PALMER III is completing his mas-
ter’s of fine arts degree in film production at the
University of Southern California. He is a
teaching assistant at USC in beginning and ad-
vanced camera workshops.

1971

Henry A. Harkey is in the general practice of
law with the firm of Harkey, Foggart, Coira,
Fletcher and Lambeth. Harkey and his wife,
Catherine, live in Charlotte, N. C.

Joun W. HINsHaw is an animal products sales
representative for Elanco Products, the agricul-
tural marketing division of Eli Lilly and Co.
Hinshaw earned a master’s degree in marketing
from the University of North Carolina in 1978.
He is working in the Mason City, Iowa region.

CLARK B. LEUTZE is a systems analyst for the
Pratt and Whitney Aircraft Division of United
Technologies in Hartford, Conn. He was re-
cently promoted to lieutenant in the U. S. Navy
Reserve and is mission commander of a P3 Pa-
trol Aircraft. Last May, Leutze received his
master’s of business administration from the
State University of New York at Albany. He and
his wife have a son, Scott Turner, born Aug. 13,

1977.

ALvA M. LuMPKIN is living in Atlanta and study-

ing for a master’s degree in electrical engineer-
ing at Georgia Tech.

LAURENCE L. MCCONNELL, editor and publisher
of the newspaper weekly, the Georgetown (S.C.)
Times, has been successful with an “op-ed”
(commentary) page. The page features two
columns, “Before you Wrap the Fish” and “Ex-
pert Witness.” His wife, Cathy, serves as assistant
editor.

Dr. Barry W. MITCHELL is performing his resi-
dency training at Buffalo General Hospital in
Buffalo, N. Y.

JEFFREY B. SPENCE has been appointed executive
director for the Kansas City region of the Na-
tional Conference of Christians and Jews.
Spence resides in Gladstone, Mo.

Ho .uis C. TaGGarrt, a New Orleans attorney, is
an art investment consultant with the fine arts
firm of Kurt E. Schon, Ltd. Taggart specializes
in 19th century European paintings for collec-
tors and investors.

MarTIN B. WHITAKER received a special com-
mendation from the U. S. Attorney General for
his work, from 1974 to 1978, with the tax division
of the Department of Justice. Whitaker is now
associated with the law firm of Chamberlain,
Hrdlicka, White, Johnson and Williams in
Houston, where he is a tax specialist.

1972

LELAND CLEMONS has been transferred by the
First National Bank in Dallas to its branch in
London. Clemons is vice president and is re-
sponsible for U. S. companies in Northern and
Central Europe. He and his family reside in
London.

Lynn D. DurHAM JR. is associated with the law
firm of Cotton, Bledsoe, Tighe, Morrow and
Dawson in Midland, Texas.

WiLuiAM J. Monica, having obtained his real
estate brokers license, is a broker-associate with
Progress Realty, Inc., of Salem, Va. In December
1978 he was elected president and chairman of
the board of the Roanoke Valley Chapter of the
American Civil Liberties Union of Virginia.

Dr. FREDERICK H. SANDs is a senior resident in
internal medicine at the University of Virginia
Hospital until June 1979. He plans to enter
practice in Atlanta.

JoHN GRAHAM TUCKER is a cataloguer in the
antique silver department of Sotheby Parke
Bernet in New York.

1973

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. JOHN H. Dumas II, ason,
John H. III, on Feb. 25, 1978. Dumas is a
second-year resident in internal medicine at the

 

University of Cincinnati.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Craic T. DUMESNIL, a
son, Joseph Peterson III, on Dec. 17, 1977, in
Louisville, Ky.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. G. ARCHER FRIERSON II,
ason, George Archer III, on Oct. 15, 1978. The
family resides in Shreveport, La.

J. JASon MaTTHEws is a research analyst and
aide in the defense attache’s office of the
American Embassy in Athens, Greece.

JAMES E. PATTERSON has been elected to a four-
year term as Judge of Probate Court for Han-
cock County, Maine.

ANDREW D. Stang has been promoted to pro-
duct director for the health care division of
Johnson and Johnson.

ROBERT J. TAYLOR IV is operating General Re-
pair Maintenance in Atlanta, Ga. With 25 em-
ployees, the firm is doing major renovation and
remodeling work as well as minor repairs.

MARRIAGE: KENNETH J. WERNICK and Sharyl
B. Hammer, on Aug. 26, 1978. Wernick, after
two years as a practicing attorney in Fairfax,
Va., is now with the office of privacy and infor-
mation appeals, U. S. Department of Justice, in
Washington, D. C.

GeEorGE B. WOLFE completed a clerkship for the
Fourth Circuit, U. S. Court of Appeals in July
1978. After a three month sabbatical of back-
packing and fishing in the Rocky Mountains
from Colorado to Canada and visiting friends
around the country, Wolfe moved to Washing-
ton, D. C., where he is associated with the law
firm of Wilmer, Cutler and Pickering.

Jerr Twarpy (See 1967.)

1974

MARRIAGE: STEPHEN ELkInsS and Elizabeth
Jones on Oct. 7, 1978, in Baltimore, Md. Mem-
bers of the wedding party included Art Bolton,
°74L; Dennis Gilchrist, ’74L; Mark Kelso, ’68,
"74L; Dave Beyer, ’74L; John Broadway, ’74L;
Rick Corrie, ’°74L; Tom King, ’74L, and Kevin
Twillman, ’75. Elkins is a lawyer for the Labor
Department and attends tax school at George-
town University Law Center. Mrs. Elkins is a
paralegal for a Washington law firm. The couple
resides in Arlington, Va.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. LAWRENCE H. FRAMME
III, a son, Lawrence H. IV, on Dec. 2, 1978.
Framme is associated with the Richmond law
firm of McGuire, Woods and Battle in the litiga-
tion section.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Buss Y. Hicky, a
daughter, Mary Elizabeth, on Sept. 30, 1978.

35

 

The Hickys reside in Marianna, Ark., where
Hicky works his farm.

MicHAEL D. BriTTIN won first prize in the
Nathan Burkan Memorial Competition at Wil-
liam and Mary’s Marshall-Wythe School of Law.
His essay was entitled “Constitutional Fair Use.”
The competition is sponsored annually by AS-
CAP to stimulate interest in the field of copy-
right law. Brittin is a senior law student at Wil-
liam and Mary where he holds a legal writing
scholarship and serves as research editor of the
Law Review. Brittin’s winning essay is now elig-
ible for a national prize in the Burkan Competi-
tion.

JEFFREY D. BuRKE is employed by Price Water-
house in Richmond, Va. Burke passed the CPA
examination in August 1978.

I. LANGSTON DONKLE III is a broker with I. L.
Donkle Cotton Co., Inc., of Greenville, S. C. He
is also chairman of the Democratic Party for the

city and serves Washington and Lee as president
of the local alumni chapter and as the chairman
of the Alumni Admissions Program.

WILLIAM L. DownING, after a trip to Seattle,
Mexico City, San Juan, Martinique and St.
Thomas with Jay Fulcher, ’74, is with the law
firm of Wilcox, Savage, Lawrence, Spindle and
Dickson, P. C. in Norfolk, Va.

W. BRADNEY GRIFFIN has been named chairman
of the board of zoning adjustment for the town
of Mendon, Vt.

ERNEST J. LicHtruss JR. received his master’s
degree in educational leadership from the Uni-
versity of Delaware in June 1978.

BRADFORD NEAL MarrTIN is associated with the
law firm of Leatherwood, Walker, Todd and

Mann in Greenville, S. C.

GEOFFREY N. NOLEN is senior account officer

 

In compliance with Article 9 of
the By-Laws of Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., the names and ad-
dresses of the Nominating Commit-
tee for 1978-79 are listed below:

Peter A. Agelasto III, ’62
Committee Chairman

Agelasto and Agelasto

P.O. Box 3217

Norfolk, Va. 23514

James P. Sunderland, ’50

President, Ash Grove
Cement Co.

1000 Ten Main Center

Kansas City, Mo. 64105

Owen H. Harper, ’59
Executive Vice President
Crocker National Bank
611 West Sixth Street
Los Angeles, Calif. 90017

The committee is now receiving
the names of candidates to fill three
seats on the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors and one vacancy on the Univer-
sity Committee on Intercollegiate
Athletics.

Under the By-Laws, any member

 

NAME YOUR CANDIDATE

of the Alumni Association may sub-
mit names of alumni to the Nominat-
ing Committee for nomination for
the offices to be filled. Alumni may
send names directly to any member
of the committee or to the committee
through the office of the Executive
Secretary of the Alumni Association
at the University.

The committee will close its re-
port on March 12, 1979, and present
its nominations to the annual meet-
ing of the Alumni Association on
May 12, 1979. The annual meeting
coincides with the Spring Reunion
Weekend.

Members of the 12-man Alumni
Board of Directors are elected to
four-year terms, with the terms of
three members expiring each year.
Retiring from the Board in May are:
Edwin J. Foltz, ’40, of Camden,
N. J., Robert M. White II, ’38 of
Mexico, Mo., and Jerry G. South,
54, of San Francisco, Calif. Alumni
members of the Athletic Committee
serve two year terms, with one
alumni member retiring each year.
The member retiring in May is Sid-
mon J. Kaplan, ’56, Cleveland, Ohio.

 

 

At the wedding of E. Neal Cory, ’77 (reported in the September
issue) were (Ist row) William W. Crawford, ’76; Roy Sumkins,
"55; William R. Cory, ’43; Frank K. Turner, ’77; (2nd row) Don
Sharp, ’69; Thomas H. Wall, ’75; Robert R. Gray, ’75; William
_Kennedy Simpson, ’75; Cory; (3rd row) Ned Hancock, ’77;
William H. Ogburn, ’76; Rogers L. Crain, ’°75; Boyd Martin,
°77; Edmund K. Seibels, ’74; Mark J. Mennel, ’75.

with Citicorp Real Estate, Inc., in Atlanta, Ga.
Nolen has worked for Citibank of New York,
the parent company of Citicorp, for the past
three years. Nolen earned his master’s degree
in management from Northwestern University
in June 1975.

JAMES G. ROGERS is assistant to the treasurer of
General Waterworks Corp., a subsidiary of IU
International, where he is responsible for cash
and debt management of 65 subsidiaries. Rogers
and his wife reside in St. Davids, Pa.

WILLIAM R. SporrorD III has been awarded a
Business Foundation of North Carolina, Inc.,
fellowship which he is using toward his MBA
degree studies at the University of North Caro-
lina at Chapel Hill.

JoHN PauL WOODLEY JR. is working as a law
clerk for U.S. District Court Judge Dortch
Warriner in Richmond, Va.

1975

WILLiAM D. CUNNINGHAM graduated on May
12, 1978, from the Bates College of Law at the
University of Houston. He is now a trust real
estate officer at First Hutchings-Sealy National
Bank in Galveston, Texas.

WarREN Parte HI i is employed by Oxford In-
dustries in Atlanta, Ga. Hill earned his master’s
degree in accounting in June 1978 from the
University of Georgia. He was a cum laude
graduate of Covenant College in 1975. He and
his wife, Rebecca, reside in Atlanta.

THOMAS RITTENBURG is 4 Captain assigned to
the Judge Advocate General’s office at the Wal-
ter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington,
D. C. Rittenburg graduated from law school at
the University of Tennessee and is a member of
the Tennessee Bar.

CHRISTOPHER P. ScuLLy (See 1976 Scully.)

1976

MARRIAGE: Haro xp R. Howe Jr. and Kath-
erine P. Jackson on Sept. 9, 1978, in Charlotte,
N.C. Groomsmen included Kim Ratliff, ’76;
Doug Faris, ’76; Burt Bartlett, ’78, and Stowe
Rose, ’78. A large number of other W&L men
were guests. Howe is a member of the Bowman
Gray Medical School of Wake Forest University.
The couple resides in Winston-Salem, N. C.

MARRIAGE: Henry MANN MOonrtTAGUE and
Marsha Ann Exum on Sept. 9, 1978, in Char-
lottesville, Va. Among the ushers were Douglas
W. McRae, ’76, and Timothy P. Ingram, ’77.
Montague is employed by Montague, Miller and
Co. The couple resides in Charlottesville.

MARRIAGE; CHARLES ALBERT Zipp III and
Mary Elizabeth Miller, on Aug. 20, 1978, in

 

 

 

College Station, Texas. Zipp is employed by
television station KXII in Sherman, Texas.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip S. MARTIN, ason,
David Sheffield Jr. on June 5, 1978. The Martins
reside in Decatur, Ga.

Craic Dorvat is production director for KPBS
public broadcasting at San Diego State Univer-
sity in San Diego, Calif.

Mark E. GEorGE is an assistant national trust
examiner for the comptroller of the currency’s
regional administrator of National Banks in
Houston, Texas. George received an M.B.A.
degree from Southern Methodist University
Graduate School of Business Administration in
August 1977.

H. Mynpers GLovER, after two years as a CPA
with Peat, Marwick, Mitchell Co. in Houston,
Texas, and Washington, D. C., is now in his first
year at Colgate Darden Graduate School of
Business Administration at the University of
Virginia.

Mark R. MauraIs is working for Cross Associ-
ates Real Estate Appraisers and Consultants in
Cape Coral, Fla. In June 1978 Maurais earned
his M.B.A. in real estate from the University of
Florida, where he was awarded a scholarship
from the Florida Association of Realtors and
was co-author of two textbooks for the Florida
Real Estate Commission. His graduate research
results will be published as an article in a future
issue of The Real Estate Appraiser and Analyst, a
professional journal.

Davip LEE NICHOLSON is working with the
world-wide marketing and sales of industrial
process control computer systems for the Taylor
Instrument Co., a division of the Sybron Corp.
He resides in Rochester, N. Y.

STEVEN K. RoBerts has opened a studio in
Washington, D. C. This past December a new
series of his silkscreen prints and woodcarvings
were exhibited in a group showing at the Huber
Gallery in Georgetown.

STEPHEN M. ScuULLY, ’76, and CHRISTOPHER P.
ScuLLy, ’75, have formed a corporation, along
with their father, to acquire and sell oil and gas
properties in the Rocky Mountain States. The
new corporation has its offices in Denver.

1977

MARRIAGE: Ricuarp J. Bacsy and Kaye An-
drews on June 24, 1978, in Danville, Va. Bagby
is employed by the First National Bank of Mar-
tinsville and Henry County. The couple resides
in Fieldale, Va.

MARRIAGE: Gary C. Courier and Alice Horton
on Sept. 16, 1978, in Lee Chapel. In the wedding
party were classmates George Smith, Mickey

Flowers, ’78.

Clary, Jon Grigg, Walt Kelley, Chuck Rogers,
Kirk Ruffin, and Rob Hedelt, ’78. Collier is
manager of the Houston Port Truck Terminal.
The couple resides in Humble, Texas.

MARRIAGE: Brap ey J. Frerz and Donna
Forwabia on Sept. 2, 1978, in East Hartford,
Conn. Mike Hightower, ’77, and John Scruggs,
’77, were ushers. The couple resides in Indiana-
polis.

MARRIAGE: Cartton Monroe Henson II and
Catherine Mozley Goodhart on June 10, 1978,
in the chapel of the First Presbyterian Church,
Atlanta, Ga. Included in the wedding were
Thomas Montgomery, ’77; Brice Williams, "78;
Thomas Tift, ’78; William Taylor, ’78; William
Cranford, ’79; Henry Taylor, ’78, and Robert
McCreery Flowers Jr., 79. Also attending were
Chad Hoover, ’78, and William Fresna,’77. The
couple resides in Athens, Ga. where Henson is a
second-year student at the University of Georgia
School of Law.

MARRIAGE: Ricuarp H. McCu.ocu and An-
gela Earle Christian on Nov. 18, 1978, in At-
lanta, Ga. Members of the wedding included
Michael D. Armstrong, ’77; James C. Foreman,
°78; Douglas M. Jackson, ’79; Curt B. Sharp,
°78, and James S. Taggart, "79. Also present
were Allen W. Weeks, ’78; Isaac A. Fisher, ’76,
and Edward A. Burgess, ’78. McCulloch is as-
sociated with Pringle Dixon Pringle Advertising
in Atlanta and his wife is in the sales department
of WSB Radio.

MARRIAGE: KENNETH SCOTT VOELKER and
Lynne Marie Gilbert on Sept. 2, 1978, in Athens,
Greece. Voelker is associated with the Birming-
ham, Ala., firm of Tradco-Vulcan, Ltd.

CamILuus L. AVENT received his B.C.E. degree
in December 1978 from Georgia Tech.

LANCE C. BRAMBECK is the Southeastern repre-
sentative for Academic Press, Inc., textbook and
research publishers. He resides in Atlanta and
covers a five-state area.

MICHAEL A. FERRARA Is an education writer for
the Chronicle in Augusta, Ga.

WILLIAM J. FLESHER works as a competitive div-
ing administrator for the Amateur Athletic
Union in Indianapolis, Ind.

ENSIGN JON R. Gricc has completed the Officer
Indoctrination School at the Navy Education
and Training Center in Newport, R. I. The six
week course is intended to prepare newly com-
missioned staff officers for Navy duty corres-
ponding to their civilian profession. Grigg is a
medical student at the University of Virginia.

Ernest C. Matrox III joined the manufacturing
trainee program of Burlington Industries and
is now a supervisor at the Burlington Glass

| At the wedding of Carlton Monroe Henson II, ’77, were
| (left to right) Thomas Montgomery, ’77; Brice Williams,
°78; Thomas Tift, 78; William Taylor, ’78; the bride and
groom; William Cranford, ’79; Henry Taylor, ’78; Robert

Fabrics plant in Hurt, Va.
WILLIAM L. DownincG (See 1974.)

BRADFORD NEAL MartTIN (See 1974.)

1978
MARRIAGE: JOHN EsTEN Byers and Alexandra
Stephanie Laccetti on Aug. 26, 1978, at R. E.
Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, Lexington.
Members of the wedding party included Michael
Boley, Jeffrey V. Badgett, and Steve Yeakel, all
°78, and Chester B. Goolrick III, ’73.

MARRIAGE: Mark W. Hampton and Becky
Hart on Oct. 7, 1978, in Gainesville, Fla. The
couple reside at Ft. Sill, Okla. where Mark is
with the U. S. Army.

Purp E. BAILey is a graduate student at Drexel
University in Philadelphia, Pa.

Jerry M. Bairrp is working as a systems analyst
for his family’s business, Mrs. Baird’s Bakery, in
Fort Worth, Texas. Baird plans to enroll in the
M.B.A. program at Harvard Business School in
1980 on a deferred acceptance.

ALAN JEFFREY Birp is attending law school at
Case Western Reserve in Cleveland, Ohio. Dur-
ing the summer of 1978 he worked in the office
of the Maryland District Attorney.

WILLIAM K. BurTON is employed by Venture
Technology in Norristown, Pa.

MIcHAEL T. CLEARY is assigned to the 4th Divi-
sion, Infantry Mechanised, at Ft. Carson, Colo.
He received his Ranger certification this past
November after completing the infantry officer
basic course at Ft. Benning, Ga.

JOHN CLAYTON Croucu works in the executive
development program at Nieman-Marcus in
Dallas, Texas.

E. Townes DUNCAN is associated with the law
firm of Bass, Berry and Sims in Nashville,
‘Tenn.

WILLIAM M. Ewin is employed by Clayton En-
vironmental Consultants in Royal Oak, Mich.

Davip G. FRANKLIN is working as a management
trainee in the corporate division of Chemical
New York Corp.

Juttan H. Goope Jr. is employed by Residio
Sportswear, a division of Wembley Industries in
New Orleans, La. He is production coordinator
for Residio Trousers.

MARYELLEN FLAHERTY GOODLATTE IS associated
with the law firm of Wetherington, Flippin,
Melchionna, Bosserman and Burton in Roa-
noke, Va.

37

 

RICHARD C. GRacE is completing the survey
officer course at Ft. Sill, Okla. He recently com-
pleted the field artillery officer basic course at
Ft. Benning, Ga. Grace expects assignment to
Ft. Carson, Colo. early this year.

JAMEs B. Hayes passed the Florida bar exami-
nation in July 1978. He is associated with the
Boca Raton firm of Deschler and Reed. Hayes
resides in Pompano Beach.

JOHN D. Lonc is working in the corporate bank-
ing department of the Fidelity Bank in Phil-
adelphia, Pa.

G. Davip Low is enrolled in a master’s degree
program in mechanical engineering at Cornell
University.

Harry A. MAZAHERI is student bar association
representative for the first-year class at Dickin-
son School of Law in Carlisle, Pa.

Davin S. Park is associated with the law firm of
Salomon and McCarthy in Hampton, N. H. Park
and his wife, Anne, reside in Brentwood.

JEFFREY M. SONE isa first year law student at the
University of Texas.

 

IN MEMORIAM

1912

JUDGE ARLOs J. HARBERT, retired judge of the
Criminal and Juvenile Court of Harrison
County, W. Va., died June 27, 1978, in Clarks-
burg. A memorial to Judge Harbert was pre-
sented at the September meeting of the Harrison
County Bar Association, where he was remem-
bered as a respected jurist and an outstanding
citizen. Judge Harbert was admitted to practice
in the Circuit Court of Harrison County in June
1928. In 1930 he was elected to the Legislature
and served as chairman of the Finance Commit-
tee of the House of Delegates. Later he was
elected Judge of the Criminal Court of Harrison
County and, when additional duties were added
to his court, he became Judge of the Juvenile
Court. He rendered an outstanding public
service for a period of 36 years and retired from
the bench in February 1959. Judge Harbert was
an active member of the county, state, and
American Bar Association. He was a past presi-
dent of the West Virginia Judicial Association.
Active in many civic affairs, Harbert devoted
much of his time and concern to the Harrison
County Society for Crippled Children and
Adults.

ROBERT McCMurrRAN KNOTT, a retired director
of probation and parole for the state of West
Virginia, died Aug. 1, 1978, in Shepherdstown.

38

He was a member of the Sons of the Confed-
eracy, the Mount Nebo Lodge A.F. & A.M., and
a World War I Army veteran.

1914

WILLIAM MeEapors MINTER, a lawyer in Fin-
castle, Va., died Jan. 3, 1979. Except for serving
during World War I as senior legal member of
the Rationing Board in Baltimore, Md., Minter
had practiced law in Fincastle since 1930. At the
time of his death, he was senior member of the
firm of Minter, Wiegandt and Ladenheim.
Before moving to Fincastle he had practiced law
in Pocahontas and Logan, W. Va. Minter estab-
lished the Lawyers Title Insurance Office in
Roanoke and was a member of the Virginia and
American Bar Associations, Catawba Masonic
Lodge and Fincastle Presbyterian Church.

1917

Harry VAN METRE CAMPBELL, senior partner
in the former Charleston, W. Va., firm of
Campbell, Love, Woodrow, Gilbert and Kizer,
died Dec. 9, 1978. Campbell was a member of
the American, West Virginia and Kanawha
County Bar Associations. For many years he
was a member of the standing committee, one
of the trustees, and a member of the Bishop’s
Advisory Council in the Episcopal Diocese of
West Virginia. He was a member, vestryman
and senior warden of St. Matthews Episcopal
Church. Campbell was a former member, ap-
pointed by the governor of West Virginia, of
the State Licensing Board for Public Institu-
tions. He was also a former secretary and treas-
urer of Daywood Foundation.

Dr. KEITH C. RICE, a physician in Atlanta, Ga.,
died Aug. 18, 1978. After receiving his medical
degree from Johns Hopkins University, Rice
began practice in Atlanta in 1926. He was the
author of many medical papers.

1918

HERBERT L. MAacGREGor, a former foreman,
machinist and executive in the shoe industry,
died April 20, 1978, in Derry, N. H. MacGregor
had served three terms in the New Hampshire
Legislature. He was a former chairman of the
Derry Village School Board, moderator of the
school district and president of the Derry His-
torical Society.

1919

SAMUEL HIGGINBOTHAM BAKER, a _ retired
executive with Sharon Steel Corp. of Sharon,
Pa., died Aug. 31, 1978. He lived in Philadel-
phia. Baker served during World War I with
the Army’s 5th Engineers in France.

ALFRED ALEXANDER LANDER, a retired con-
tractor and real estate developer in Dallas,
‘Texas, died Dec. 5, 1978. Lander was an active
member and served as an elder of the First

At the wedding of Richard H. McCulloch, ’77, were (left to
right) Douglas M. Jackson, ’79; James C. Foreman, ’78;
Michael D. Armstrong, ’77; the bride and groom; James S.
Taggart, ’79; Curt B. Sharp, ’78.

Presbyterian Church. He was a member of the
Texas Presbyterian Foundation. Lander was one
of the first naval aviators commissioned during
World War I. He went to Dallas in 1919 and
worked with Central Real Estate. He later
formed the Lantex Construction Co., which is
still operating. Shortly after World War II,
Lander became an investor and constructor of
commercial and industrial property.

E. Howarp McCates, former chief justice of
the Louisiana Supreme Court, died Oct. 30,
1978. He was assistant U. S. attorney in 1924,
after which he returned to private practice. Mc-
Caleb was appointed to the state Supreme Court
in 1941, was elected, without opposition, in 1946
and was re-elected in 1960 for another 14-year
term. He was a member of numerous organiza-
tions including the Sons of American Revolu-
tion, Order of the Coif, and Phi Alpha Delta.

1921

JOHN LYNDELL PATTERSON, insurance executive
and long-time devoted member of the St. Louis
Alumni Chapter, died Oct. 17, 1978, in Char-
lottesville, Va. Patterson had returned to Vir-
ginia for the Homecoming and Reunion Week-
end. He became ill after arriving in Lexington
and was taken to the hospital in Charlottesville.
Patterson was owner of his own insurance agency
in St. Louis for many years and more recently
was associated with R. B. Jones of St. Louis, Inc.
‘Through the years Patterson had served in many
different capacities for W&L, including past
president of the St. Louis Alumni Chapter.

1923

LEE HAMPTON BENTON, who had been associated
with the teaching of music in county schools for
more than 50 years, died Nov. 15, 1978, in
Chatham, Va. Benton’s first music endeavors
were at Schoolfield High School before its an-
nexation to Danville. While the band and glee
club were being organized, he worked with boys’
clubs, coached basketball, baseball and track.
After serving in the Navy from 1942 to 1945,
Benton returned to his post at Schoolfield where
his music groups continued to win recognition.
He served as organist and choir director of the
First Presbyterian Church in Danville for over
50 years. In 1972 the Chatham Sertoma Club
presented Benton with its distinguished service
award.

RICHARD D. Jorpan, head of the Better Business
Bureau of Greater Milwaukee for 30 years until
his retirement in 1969, died Dec. 2, 1978, in
Scottsdale, Ariz. Jordan began his work with the
Better Business Bureau in Detroit in 1926 where
he was responsible for checking the truth of
retail advertising. He moved to Milwaukee in
1939 to become general manager of the Better
Business Bureau. His title was later changed to
president. In the three decades that Jordan
headed the bureau, its staff grew from four full-

 

 

time employees to ten. Jordan was a former lay
leader of the Christ Episcopal Church, a former
president of the Rotary Club, a former president
of Travelers’ Aid Society and a former vice
president and board member of the National
Association of Better Business Bureaus.

1924

MATTHEW P. MATHENEY, an attorney, business-
man and realtor in El Dorado, Ark., died Jan.
_ 21, 1978. Matheney was formerly president of
the Union County Bar Association and was
awarded a certificate of distinction as a fellow of
the Arkansas Bar Foundation for outstanding
services for more than 50 years.

CHARLES HOMER PHILLIPS, a former member of
the Virginia House of Delegates and a realtor
and developer in Richmond, died Feb. 17, 1977.
He was the founder of Charles H. Phillips & Co.
in Richmond.

ALVAH LEE TyRrEE, who served for 20 years as
treasurer of the City of Bluefield, W. Va., died
Dec. 22, 1978. He became city treasurer in 1949
and served until 1969. Tyree was a charter
member, past president and treasurer of the
University Club of Bluefield and a member of
the Bluefield Lions Club.

1925

JOHN TRUEHEART McVay, businessman and
sales manager for E. W. Mootz Bakery, a whole-
sale firm in Huntington, W. Va., died Nov. 29,
1978. McVay was a former employee of the
advertising department of the Huntington
Publishing Co. He served Washington and Lee
as Class agent for many years. He was a member
of the First Presbyterian Church, active in the
Heart Association, and a past member of the
Huntington Manufacturers Club.

1926

NELSON WEILER Burris, an employee of Tenn-
essee Eastman-Holston Defense Corp., died
Oct. 14, 1978, in Johnson City. Burris had
worked in personnel at Bemberg, Elizabethton,
and at Holston Ordinance in Kingsport in recent
years. From 1930 to 1941 Burris was director of
Stryker Lane Community Center. This position
involved work with youth and adults on West
Side New York. Burris became associated with
Tennessee Eastman in 1943. He was a life mem-
ber of the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity and a life
member of the Masonic Lodge of Mt. Vernon,
Ohio.

h

GEORGE L. HILL, a resident of Dunedin, Fla.,
for several years, died Sept. 5, 1978. At one time
Hill had been an assistant secretary and assistant
treasurer for Lockheed Aircraft Corp. of
Canada, Ltd. He served five years with the
Lockheed Aircraft Corp. in various capacities
from 1942 to 1947. Hill had an outstanding
record in the banking business. He joined the

John Esten (Jeb) Byers, ’78, and his bride,
the former Alexandra Stephanie Laccetti.

Bank of America, N. T. and was stationed in
‘Toyko, Singapore and San Francisco from 1948
until 1960. From 1961 until his retirement in
March 1968, he was with the National Banking
Dept. with Continental Illinois National Bank &
Trust Co. of Chicago.

MARSHALL Amos Mott, for many years presi-
dent of Cleveland (Ohio) Better Business Bur-
eau, Inc., and a national leader in establishing
ethical codes of business conduct and consumer
protection, died Aug. 16, 1978, after a short
illness. Mott headed the Better Business Bureau
from 1944 until his retirement in 1969. During
this time, he developed an advertising review
board of major businesses in Cleveland, helped
found the consumer credit counseling service,
and started a magazine which became a model for
other Better Business Bureau Agencies. Mott was
chairman of the board of the Consumer Credit
Counseling Service, president of the Vocational
Guidance and Rehabilitation Services, and vice
president of the Cleveland Homemakers Service
Association. He was also on the board of the
Cleveland Welfare Federation and the Com-
munity Chest.

1929

Retired Navy Capt. WILLIAM JOSEPH Davis BELL
Jr.,a former Washington, D. C., representative
of the Jones and Laughlin Steel Co., died Oct. 21
at a Hollywood, Fla., hospital. During World
War II, Bell was wounded while acting as
beachmaster in the invasion of the Japanese-
held islands. After the war, he served as a
planning officer for the Military Sea Transport
Service. Bell moved to Washington as a consul-
tant in private industry. In 1966 he joined Jones
and Laughlin Steel Co. as their representative.
Bell was very active in the Republican Party and
was reported by the press for his “good will” tax1
service, which he began at the National Con-
vention in Miami Beach in 1968 and repeated in
the conventions of 1972 and 1976. Bell was a
former treasurer of the Army & Navy Club
where he also resided. He was also treasurer of
the Historical Research Foundation in Wash-
ington.

1930

JAMES WILLIAM Davis, a retired news editor
with the Associated Press in Washington, died
Nov. 27, 1978. Davis began his work on news-
papers in Bristol, Va.-Tenn., Asheville, N. C.,
and Johnson City, Tenn. He joined the Associ-
ated Press in Washington in 1937.

1931

CLIFFORD S. RICE, a retired sales representative
for the industrial engineering firm of Cleworth
Co. of New York City, died in St. Petersburg,
Fla., Dec. 30, 1978. His business career also
included service as personnel representative for
Hercules Powder Co., employee relations rep-

 

resentative with the Va. State Employment
Service and manager of the Wiley Hall Motors
of Salem, Va.

1933

BERNARD B. Davis, an attorney and judge in the
state of Kentucky, who practiced for many years
in Shelbyville, died June 26, 1978. Davis had
served as commissioner for the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky which is the judicial officer for the
highest Kentucky court. Judge Davis was a
former president of the Rotary Club, Lions Club
and the county Chamber of Commerce. He was
also chairman of the Shelbyville County Demo-
cratic Executive Committee. During World War
II he served with the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation as a special agent. After his retirement
from the Court of Appeals, Judge Davis prac-
ticed law with the firm of Handmaker, Weber
and Meyer in Louisville.

SAMUEL BELL STEVES, a businessman and former
mayor of San Antonio, Texas, died Aug. 24, —
1978. One of the founders of Jefferson State
Bank, Steves was also owner and president of
Tampo Manufacturing Co., Inc., in San An-
tonio. Steves was the city’s last street commis-
sioner, serving when the city was governed by a
commission form of government. When the city
changed to a council-manager government,
Steves was elected to the first nine-member city
council. His grandfather, his great-uncle and
his great-great-grandfather were all mayors of
San Antonio. Among his fraternal, civic and
religious achievements Steves was appointed a
Knight of St. Gregory in 1973, the highest honor
the Pope can bestow upon a layman.

WILLIAM FOWLER SyMoNDs, former president
and vice chairman of the board of W.-D. Allen
Mfg. Co. of Broadview, IIl., died Feb. 16, 1978.
The firm manufactures interior fire protection
equipment, lawn goods, sprinklers, and fire
nozzles. Symonds had retired a few years ago as
vice chairman of the board. He was a former
member of the Westmoreland Country Club
and the Chicago Athletic Association.

1934

KENNETH EDWARD Davis, a former executive
with Simonds Saw & Steel Division of Wallace
Murray Corp., died Nov. 13, 1977, in Altamonte
Springs, Fla.

1936

Dr. Epwin RicHarp McCoy of Statesville,
N. C., died Aug. 9, 1978. He was a retired
specialist in obstetrics and gynecology. He had
joined the staff of the Davis Hospital in 1961
and practiced there until illness caused his re-
tirement in 1976. McCoy was affiliated with
Memorial General Hospital in Elkins, W. Va.,
from 1951-55 and with Staats Hospital in
Charleston from 1955-61. During World War

39

II he served as a flight surgeon with the U. S.
Army.

1937

JAMES A. BLALOCK, an attorney and senior title
examiner for the Dallas Title Co. since Jan. 25,
1968, died Oct. 16, 1978, in Dallas. From 1949
to 1967 Blalock had been attorney examiner
with the Federal Trade Commission in Wash-
ington, D. C. He had retired in 1968 to enter
the real estate title business in Dallas. Blalock
was a U.S. Army veteran of World War II. He
was a former member of the Virginia and Miss-
issippi Bar Associations, the U.S. Supreme
Court Bar and the U. S. Court of Military Ap-
peals Bar.

HENRY Woops McLauGH In Jr., died Aug. 10,
1978, in Halifax, Va. McLaughlin was an assis-
tant trial justice for the Circuit Court of Halifax
County during the period 1939-1956, and he
was substitute county judge from 1939 to July 1,
1978. McLaughlin was also assistant judge for
the town of Halifax from 1958 until his death.
At the time of his death he was also commis-
sioner of accounts for Halifax County.

1938

JOHN Grant TOMLIN, a Cincinnati lawyer who
had been a professor at Salmon T. Chase College
of Law at the University of Cincinnati, died
Aug. 21, 1978. Tomlin was a member of the
firm of Dinsmore, Shohl, Dinsmore and Todd
from 1954-1960, and a partner with the firm of
Doyle and Tomlin from 1947-1954. Tomlin also
taught special law seminars at Xavier University
and was a member of the Governor’s Commis-
sion for Revision of Statutes for the Common-
wealth of Kentucky. A former board member
of Formica Corp., Tomlin played golf and
bridge competitively. He was also interested in
farming and owned farms in Walton and Ve-
rona, Ky.

1940

SAMUEL JAMES SUBLETTE JR., for many years
associated with and an officer of Sublette Feed
and Supply Co., a wholesale grocer in Bluefield,
W. Va., died in June 1978. Sublette was an Air
Force veteran of World War II having served in
England, France and Holland.

194]
CHRISTOPHER CLAUDE CoBBs DuNN, a native of
Birmingham, Ala., died Nov. 3, 1978. Dunn
was a veteran of World War II having served
with the U.S. Army Air Corp.

1942

WILLIAM CARNES WHERRETTE, a professor in
the College of Architecture at the University of
Washington in Seattle, died June 6, 1978.
Wherrette served with the Marines during
World War II.

40

JOHN W. B. PRESTON Jr., of Bowling Green,
Ohio, died June 7, 1978. He had been a pur-
chasing agent for AP Parts, a division of Questor
Corp. He had been with AP Parts for 22 years
and previously with Campbell Soup Co. At one
time Preston had been mayor of Weston, Ohio.
He was a Navy lieutentant during World War
Il.

1943

Dr. JAMES FREDERICK BERRY, a physician in Ft.
Lauderdale, Fla., died Aug. 26, 1978. Berry re-
ceived his medical degree from George Wash-
ington University in 1947 and practiced medi-
cine in Ft. Lauderdale until his death. During
World War II he served with the Navy on the
staff of the Naval Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He
was a member of the Smith Reed Russell Medi-
cal Honor Society.

1944

- ROBERT SIDNEY IRONS (See 1949.)

1946

JEROME Davip GREENBERG, president of Cor-
porate Counselors, Inc., a management con-

‘sultant firm with its base office in Palm Beach,

Fla., and an office in Philadelphia, Pa., died
Oct. 25, 1978. Greenberg was, at one time,
president of Palm Crest Investments, Inc., a
diversified land and building developer in Palm
Beach, Fla. He was a former vice president of
the Temple Israel in Palm Beach, a former
member of B’nai B’rith, and a past district
chairman of the Boy Scouts of America.

1947

The obituary of Davip THomMas LAUDERDALE
Jr., who died Nov. 4, 1978, appeared in the
November issue. Here are excerpts from
remarks made at the memorial service by Dr.
William L. Pressly, President Emeritus of The
Westminster Schools in Atlanta:

“We all recognize that for twenty-five years
we have had in our midst a unique, powerful
personality of great and lasting influence.

“To begin to understand any more we must
look to his family, his roots. He (David
Lauderdale) was the son of a brilliant, devout
Associate Reformed Presbyterian minister of
Lexington, Va., who loved the Lord and loved
his fellowman. He reserved the Psalms and
recited them frequently and beautifully. David
Lauderdale adored his father and almost
decided to follow him in to the ministry. Instead
he became the Christian teacher we all loved
and admired, with strength of character of a
Scottish covenanter and with the sensitivity of

a poet.
“All of you who were his students have
heard him read and recite poetry . . . To hear

him was to feel the poem, and to love David
Lauderdale. Every one of you, his students,

through this moving experience will ever be

more sensitive, a more loving, a more
understanding human being.
“Mr. Lauderdale served = education

nationally through his position as a reader of
Advanced Placement Examinations for the
College Board’s Educational Testing Service...
He was areader of the College Entrance
Examination’s English comprehensive essay.
He was chairman of the English section of the
Mid-South Association of Independent
Schools.

“For many years, Mr. Lauderdale has been
the School’s College Counselor . . . In
recognition of his influence on their lives, twice
the senior boys have dedicated the yearbook to
him... His students admired and loved him for
his Christian faith, for his real courage, for his
subtle humor, for his broad knowledge, for his
warm compassion, for his profound influence
on their lives... one graduate summed up the
impact of David Lauderdale’s life when he
wrote to him while he was in the hospital, ‘on my
job I think of you every day. You taught me how
to live’. And that, dear friends, describes the
ideal teacher.”

1949

ROBERT SIDNEY IRONS, a Radford lawyer serving
as special assistant to the Virginia Supreme
Court, died Aug. 30, 1978. Irons was assistant
U.S. attorney for Western Virginia when he
was appointed to the position with the Supreme
Court in 1970. His primary duty was to review
petitions for appeal in criminal and habeas cor-
pus cases and make recommendations for dis-
posing of those petitions. Prior to his appoint-
mentas assistant U. S. attorney, Irons practiced
law in Roanoke and Radford.

1953

CHALLEN BROWN BEATTIE, formerly president
of Beattie Associates of New York City, died
July 25, 1978. In Stavanger, Norway, where he
moved several years ago, Beattie was teaching
art at the university. He was a former member
of the Princeton Club in New York City.

1955

PETER Moore DANZIGER JR., a real estate specu-
lator in Brooklyn, N. Y., died May 5, 1978.
Danziger, who had speculated successfully in
real estate, owned extensive property in Brook-
lyn, Southampton and Puerto Rico.

1977

CHRISTOPHER R. LARSON, an outstanding athlete
in his four years at Washington and Lee, died
Aug. 13, 1978, as the result of an automobile
accident on the Baltimore Beltway. Larson was a
leading midfielder on the nationally ranked
W&L lacrosse team. He was also an outstanding
member of the basketball team. His family lives
in Lutherville, Md.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ANNIVERSARY CLASS REUNIONS MAY 10, 11, 12, 1979

 
      

 

When Wash-ing - ton and Lees men fall in line,

Academic and Law Classes of 1929, 1934, 1939, 1944, 1949, 1954, 1959, 1964, 1969, 1974 & Gold Star Generals WW.
(All Classes Before ‘29) &

Get in the Swing
This Spring!
A Great New Act!

An Expanded Program
For Reunion Classes

On May 10, 11, 12, the Academic and Law Classes
of 1929, 1934, 1939, 1944, 1949, 1954, 1959, 1964,
1969, 1974, and the Gold Star Generals (all Classes

.- before 1929) will return to campus for festive class
reunions.

Anenlarged program will greet them: On May 10, the
speaker will be Charles McDowell, °48, the witty
Washington correspondent for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch; on May 11, there will be a campus update
program and a black-tie dinner and ball with music
provided by a nationally famous orchestra; on May
12, there will be the annual meeting of the Alumni
Association, the Tucker Law Lecture, a lacrosse game
between W&L and Hofstra followed by class banquets
and parties.

There is more to see on campus now than ever, not
the least of which is the University’s magnificent new
undergraduate library, now occupied and in
operation.

Don’t Miss This W&L Gala! All 4’s and Yers—
Make Plans Now To Be Here.

 

 

We're going to win a - gain an -_ oth-er time;_—
THE YEAR OF THE 4's & Sers Lexington, Virginia 24450

a

 

 

 

 

 

n
on

oo
S

{flilan Yatt
t

 

Dr. W

W

 

rgin 1a

a

Lexington, V:

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
24450

 

ca
i
'

sO Miche Bs) am

