 

 

 

 

a

the alumni magazine of washington and lee
Volume 53, Number 4, May 1978

William C. Washburn, 40 ..................0.. Editor
Romulus T. Weatherman ............. Managing Editor
Robert S. Keefe, 68 .................. Associate Editor
Douglass W. Dewing, ’77 .............. Assistant Editor
Joyce Carter ..................00.4. Editorial Assistant
Sally Mann ....................0.000. Photographer
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Huntley’s First Decade ..............ccccccceeeesseeeeeeeeees l
Two New TTuStees .............ccecseeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeens 12
Special Alumni Conference ...............06 erro 13
WEL Gazette ......cccccccccesececccceetseeeeeceeeeeeaeeseeeeeeees 17
Summer Theater ...........cccceeeecessseeccceeeesseeeeeeeeeeees 20
White House Press Conference ................::++00008 20
Glee Club 1n MeXxIc0 ........ceeeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 23
Chapter Ne@WS oo... ecceccccceesseeeeesseeeeeesneeeensaes 24
Class Note .........cccccccccccccceeeeeeeeeeeceeeecceeeeeeeaseeneeees 27
In Memoriam ...........ccceceeeeeeeccceeeeeeeeeceeeeeeeeneeeeeeees 31

Published in January, March, April, May, July, September, Octo-
ber, and November by Washington and Lee Unwersity Alumni,
Inc., Lexington, Virginia 24450. All communications and POD
Forms 3579 should be sent to Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va. 24450. Second class postage paid at Lexington, Va.
24450 and additional mailing offices.

 

Officers and Directors
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Epwin J. Fortz, ’40, Gladwyne, Pa.
President

RosBert M. Wuirte II, ’38, Mexico, Mo.
Vice President

JERRY G. Soutu, 754, San Francisco, Calif.
Treasurer

WiLiraM C. WasHBurn, 740, Lexington, Va.
Secretary

WILuiaM P. BoaRpMAN, ’63, Columbus, Ohio
Puitie R. CAMPBELL, 757, Tulsa, Okla.
RICHARD A. DEnNny, 752, Atlanta, Ga.

SAMUEL C. DuDLEy, 758, Richmond, Va.
Marion G. HEATWOLE, ’41, Pittsburgh, Pa.
SAMUEL B. Ho tuts, 51, Memphis, Tenn.
CourTNEyY R. Mauzy Jr., ’61, Raleigh, N.C.
Paut E. SANDERS, 743, White Plains, N.Y.

ON THE COVER: President Robert E. R. Huntley,
who this year is observing his 10th anniversary in
office, is pictured with Washington Hall in the back-
ground. A retrospective of his presidency, mainly in
his words and in what others have said about him,
begins on the opposite page. Photograph by Sally
Mann.

 

 

 

 

In 1978, Washington and Lee
marks President Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley’s 10th anniversary in that office.
He assumed his new duties Feb. 5,
1968, and was formally inaugurated
on Oct. 18.

He had joined the University’s
law faculty in 1958, after a year in
the private practice of law; within six
years he had been promoted to full
professor. Dr. Fred C. Cole, W&L
president from 1959 to 1967, named
him Secretary of the Board of
Trustees and the University’s legal
advisor; in 1967 Mr. Huntley was
named Dean of the School of Law.

He held that post only one
semester, however, before being
asked to accept the presidency, six
months after Dr. Cole’s unexpected
resignation. At age 38, Mr. Huntley
became one of the youngest

Jan. 3, 1968

presidents Washington and Lee and

its predecessor institutions ever had.
In these 10 years he has become

widely recognized and respected—as

alumni, parents, friends and

students know well—as a thoughtful,

articulate, engaging advocate of the
University and in fact as a forceful
philosopher of education generally.
Others recognize his uncanny gifts
as W&L does; he has been elected to
numerous boards (Philip Morris,
Best Products, Central Telephone

& Utilities, Shenandoah Life
Insurance, and Salem College in his
hometown of Winston-Salem among
them); he has been president of the
Virginia Foundation of Independent
Colleges and a member of the
Virginia State Board of Education;
he is currently serving his second
term on the President’s Commission

News conference,

THE FIRST
HUNTLEY
DECADE

Portrait of a Dynamic Presidency

on White House Fellowships. He has
received honorary degrees from
Wake Forest University, Randolph-
Macon College in Ashland, and The
College of Charleston (South
Carolina).

For us who work with him on
campus every day to try to describe
and evaluate these 10 years would be
impossible, and even if it were easy,
the result would be suspect or sound
like a eulogy or both.

Surely, then, the best way to
measure him as president—to
measure what W&L has become and
what W&L has remained under his —
leadership; to know why people feel
about him and respond so positively
to him as they do—is to see what he
himself has had to say over the
decade, and to see what others have
had to say about him.

 

OSE A 0.08 STIS IE I PU SR NU OA 2 a a rg ene anor CEES
hn) B RIE HS ARS AE SSE SS SEES TSS SSS VBS TES PD SS ESS TT

Question FROM THE Ring-tum Phi: Some day, when you retire, some
reporter is going to come to you and say, “What is your proudest accomplish-
ment?”

Mr. Huntley: I would hope that I would be able to say that Washington and
Lee has fulfilled its history as a unique institution of higher learning, with a
continuing emphasis on quality education in the liberal arts, with a student
body and faculty drawn from all walks of life and from across the country—
strongly motivated students who represent a cross-section of society together
with highly qualified faculty members who are principally motivated to teach,
with interest in research and independent scholarship important in their

thinking but secondary in motivation.
Press conference, Jan. 3, 1968

SOMEONE HAS said that we have an obligation to live up to our reputation.
I would state it slightly differently. I think we have an obligation to make our

reputation as good as we really are.
Remarks at his first faculty meeting: Feb. 5, 1968

WasuHINcTon AND LEE is a strong school, far stronger than many of
you have had occasion to know. One of our major obligations is to see to it that
alumni are fully aware of our strengths, weaknesses and needs. This
obligation we will attempt to fulfill as thoroughly and candidly as possible. . . .

It is clear that if Washington and Lee is to meet the future with the same
strength and vitality which have characterized its distinguished past, it must
have the understanding and help of its alumni. I do not mean merely their
financial help—although indeed this will be critical. Rather, . . | would pre-
fer to put the emphasis on understanding. . .. We on the campus intend to do
everything possible to assure that you are aware of what is occurring here and
we intend to exchange views with you and to seek your advice. There is a risk
in this, of course, because anything we do will be against the advice of some.
We must assume, however, that the loyalty and support of our alumni does not
hang by so slender a thread as to make this risk a serious one. If this assumption
is incorrect, then the future of Washington and Lee will indeed be radically

different from its past. I do not believe it is incorrect.
Message to alumni: Winter 1968

I WOULD WISH for you... .a mind which can close on a core of conviction,
a mind which is tolerant—not the kind of tolerance which is, in fact, mere
condescension, but rather the kind of tolerance which recognizes the possibility
of error and, even more important, which recognizes that there is always more

than one path to truth.
Commencement: June 7, 1968

‘TL Hose OF US whose business it is to remain here are likely to feel we have
a kind of claim on you, a stake in your lives. It’s a presumptuous sentiment,
perhaps, but not a surprising one, because if we did not harbor this thought, it
is not probable that we would wish to be here at all.

... So we have certain hopes about you, hopes that you will take from this
place qualities of real value which you have developed and nurtured, at least
in part, during your time here.

Most basic, perhaps, there is the hope that you will take with you the
makings of a good mind, a habit of thought which is both disciplined and
independent.

It has been remarked, and correctly so, that education is a radical act—an
act which cuts the mind loose from old bondages, releasing it to question and
to probe and to reformulate.

But education is also, of course, a conservative process, a process of con-
servation. It conserves the values of the past, and strives to provide a nexus
between the generations and between the ages. . . . It forces a confrontation

Washington and Lee has picked a man who
seems perfectly cast by training, temperament
and fate to be its president. ... With such legal,
academic and administrative credentials,
Huntley might be expected to succeed with no
other qualifications. Yet his greatest assets may
still be the natural ones of a warm, outreaching
personality undergirded by an obviously pro-

found enthusiasm for life and work.
Commonwealth: The Magazine of Virginia; March 1968

 

Beg’

The move from Tucker Hall to Washington Hall: Feb. 5, 1968

 

 

 

The Huntley family (January 1968): Evelyn and Bob
Huntley with their daughters Katie, Jane and
Martha. At left: Then-Dean Huntley at work in
Tucker Hall with Catherine McDowell, law-school
secretary and wife of the late Prof. Charles R.
McDowell Sr.

 

 

 

 

 

with the past, invites a substitution of new directions for old fetters, and thus

frees the mind for its inevitable confrontation with the future.
Commencement: June 7, 1968

Wuat IS ‘THE IMAGE of Washington and Lee?

I don’t know what its image is for you, but I can, I think, suggest to you ina
very few words what its image is for me.

It is the image of an institution which unashamedly proclaims that there is
no higher goal to which a scholar can aspire than to be a vital teacher of young
men; an institution which confidently entrusts the largest possible measure of
choice and freedom to its students and its faculty, requiring conformity of no
one, prizing an environment characterized by tolerance, integrity, and respect
for others... .

It is the image of an institution which . . . seeks a diverse student body and
faculty whose members may share in common only the ability and the convic-
tion to learn from each other.

It is the image of an institution which takes seriously the injunctions which
are engraved on its official crest—“Be not unmindful of the future’—“Ques-
tion all things.”

It is not the image of an institution which serves as a marshalling point or
strategy center from which young men are sent forth daily to confront the
sources of evil the strategists may have identified. Rather, it is the image of an
institution which sees no priority as higher than the search for truth and
understanding from which eventually may grow wisdom—the kind of wisdom
that brings fullness to life.

What of this image? Is this “where the action is”?

Or, in the strangely contemptuous tone of the more recent idiom, is it
“relevant”?

The only answer I know is this: If it is “relevant” to lead forth the mind
from the dark corners in which it feeds on its own prejudice and arrogance
and self-righteousness—if, in short, it is relevant for there to be men who are

truly educated—then this image is relevant.
Inaugural address: Oct. 18, 1968

Our ENVIRONMENT must be one which stimulates us—as someone has
said—to polish our minds and ideals against those of others, to regard discus-
sion, reason and dialogue as a process by which we grow to intellectual and
spiritual maturity rather than as a stratagem by which we use others as a means

to achieve our own wants.
Commencement: June 6, 1969

‘THE NEW CURRICULUM plan... represents our renewed conviction that
we can achieve our noblest educational aspirations; that we can find a way to
afford to our students both the breadth of exposure and the depth of involve-
ment which a liberally educated man must have. . . . It represents on the part
of this academic community a willingness to engage in an intensive effort

which no one has demanded of it but which it has demanded of itself.
Commencement: June 6, 1969

‘Tuts UNIVERSITY’S Board of Trustees at its recent spring meeting
adopted a significant change in its structure, substituting term membership
for life membership, imposing a retirement age, enlarging the size of the
Board, and providing for regularized alumni representation. This change . . .
was the culmination of several years of study . . . prompted from within the
Board on its own initiative as a result of nothing but its dedication to the future
of Washington and Lee.

I mention this because I think it is important that you have this tangible
indication of something which only we who have been close to the Board can
truly know: that it is composed of men whose depth of intelligent concern for

the goals we all share is a major source of optimism and inspiration.
Commencement: June 6, 1969

It is unusual, even in this era of youth’s
ascendancy in many spheres, to select a man as
young as he is for the presidency of a famous
college. It is unusual to select a lawyer rather
than one who has an established reputation as
an [academician]. It is unusual to choose one in
this period of emphasis on high scholarship...
who [does not have] a Ph.D. degree. Nor has it
been usual for W&L to have one of its own
alumni as its president.

These considerations do not seem to have
worried the trustees. . .. He was graduated from
W&L with honors and from its law school swm-
ma cum laude, with Phi Beta Kappa key and
Order of the Coif, afterwards taking a [gradu-
ate] law degree from Harvard Law School. Asa
law senior at Lexington, he was given recogni-
tion as [the one student] in all the university
who had performed the most distinguished
service to it. He joined the faculty in 1958 after

a year of law practice.
Editorial in the Staunton (Va.)
Leader, Jan. 4, 1968

 

Dr. Huston St. Clair, then the Rector of the Board of
Trustees, administers the oath of office at President
Huntley’s inauguration (Oct. 17, 1968).

 

SEARLE PRETO AEB DE MEAL PE RAE SPT A AED RSC RET RI EDIE FSET LTO SA ST I AE IE LE AI BEAT IIR ST RNS SES TES ALB ARES EG ET RE WSN SLRS SK ERNE SPR RSAR TE:
ELLA Aa TR US LADS EE IIE OTS LOG EN NL hI NIN IR I BG A RIE Ri SES RST VR Cc a IRC Ce RERETG
4

 

 

 

 

WE CAN, AS A university, confront the future without disintegrating into
the kind of factionalism where power ousts reason and where the nobility of

fine ideals is lost in the struggle of opposing wills.
Commencement: June 6, 1969

Iu VERY IMPRESSED with [students today]. The students here are young
men for whom it’s very easy to develop a strong sense of affection and admira-
tion. As I’ve commented before to alumni and others, they are obviously better
prepared, educationally, than any students we have ever had. ‘They are aware
of the world around them in ways my generation certainly was not; they have
the same impatience that youth necessarily has, the same proclivity for instant
ideals youth has always had, which we certainly would not want to see youth
lose. They come from backgrounds that are more diverse than ever before,
because a more diverse cross-section of American youth are attending college,
including this one, than ever before. . .. In many ways, they are more stimulat-
ing to the faculty and sometimes to the college president than earlier genera-
tions of college students were. It’s a good deal more difficult, I would think,
to be bored on a college campus than it might have been twenty years ago, and
I don’t think that is a negative comment. I think that probably augurs well for

US.
An interview, Sept. 11, 1970 (four months after the nationwide campus
turmoil at the time of the Cambodia “incursion” and Kent State shootings)

WE HAVE BEEN telling college students ever since I can remember:
“You're the finest thing that ever came along. You are brighter than anyone
else that ever lived. You are living in a time when the world is beset with
problems which we have created, and now we're going to pass the nearly
extinguished torch on to you.” For twenty years that has been the standard
cliché. It’s not entirely true; but it rings trippingly from the tongue, you see,
and sounds like a good thing to say; you never think they’re going to believe
you anyway. And now they do. Now they have gotten the message and have
taken it quite seriously. They cdnsider that the older generation has failed
them mightily because it has not been able to produce solutions to all the
various problems we see; they consider that the good things of life, of which
there are more than ever before, have happened by accident; all the bad
things are the consequence of the faults and evils of earlier generations. ‘They
take that seriously, which leads to the conclusion that the past is irrelevant, that
they cannot expect to learn much from existing institutions or from the “Es-
tablishment.”

They’re good, but they’re not that good; we’re bad, but were’re not that
bad. History doesn’t provide all the answers, but it cannot be ignored; and
institutions need to be changed, but the lesson of history is that in abolishing
existing institutions, one runs the risk that they will be replaced by institutions
of a far more primitive kind.

We are in a world about whose future we ourselves are uncertain, a world
whose young people we ourselves have told there is an insistent demand for
their immediate involvement in finding the answers we have failed to provide.
Why should we be surprised that they have taken that to heart? It would be

surprising if they had not.
Interview, Sept. 11, 1970

‘To TRUST MUCH is to risk much. But the ideal is essential and precious.
Opening assembly: Sept. 16, 1970

‘THE FACULTY HERE is unique. Together with the professional com-
petence they bring us, and which we require of them, they bring to Washington
and Lee a measure of institutional identification which is all the more precious
for being so rare. They do not abandon their devotion to scholarship, nor
would we wish them to do so. But they have been able, and, I believe, are

Perhaps most important, Mr. Huntley must
provide the leadership for W&L to make the
proper decision as to how large it should be-
come and how it can preserve and fortify the
reputation for excellence it has long enjoyed.

Young, vigorous and familiar with many of
the problems which will face him, the new un1-
versity president will have a lot going for him.
If he successfully deals with the challenge, he
will put himself in the select company of the
few Washington and Lee presidents who con-
tributed markedly to the making of the school
one of the best men’s independent colleges in

the country. |
Editorial in the Roanoke (Va.)
World-News, Jan. 3, 1968

When Bob went off on leave to Harvard to
get his master’s degree in law, President Gaines
said: ‘““‘We don’t want to let him get away from

us.”’
Dean W. W. Pusey’s introduction of
President-elect Huntley at a
press conference, Jan. 3, 1968

[Among W&L’s students,] pride in and en-
thusiasm for their youthful President Huntley
is a condition of today’s campus.

Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, “The Enduring

Assets of Washington and Lee,”
published in the 1970 Calyx

 

President Huntley with the late Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw the
day General Lee’s College was published (1969).

 

 

 

 

 

 

increasingly able, to couple that professional competence and need for per-
sonal intellectual fulfillment with an identification with this institution and its
objectives that gives Washington and Lee a strength which few other institu-
tions have. These kinds of strengths are the intangibles which buildings and
endowments alone will never provide but which buildings and endowments can

make possible.
Remarks to the Achievement Council: 1970

Our CHALLENGE is not merely to exist. That clearly is not enough. We

are better off dead than mediocre.
Remarks to alumni: 1970

I HAVE OFTEN been asked: “What is Washington and Lee’s purpose?
Where is it going?” In recent months and weeks that question has come to me
in one form or another with increasing frequency, from all of this University’s
many constituencies and from persons of varying political and ideological per-
suasions.

The question always makes me vaguely uneasy, even sometimes a bit irate.
‘The question seems to imply that in the temper and turmoil of these times, the
traditional purpose of this institution is a luxury we can no longer afford, that
it must somehow redirect its energy to a more immediate and tangible cause,
preferably one which is subject to being captured in a single short slogan; that
it must choose a side in our increasingly two-sided society and go down to the

wire with it.
Commencement: June 5, 1970

WasHINGTON AND LEE, in the future as in the past, will not be afraid of
change. Even in the few years since you graduating seniors enrolled, signifi-
cant changes in curriculum, in student life, and in methods of governance
have been fashioned with care and undertaken with confidence. Such changes
will continue to occur and will continue to be consistent with the basic educa-

tional objectives and ideals of the school.
Commencement: June 4, 1971

In MY VIEW, it is neither possible nor desirable for higher education to
think of itself as a kind of unselfish ombudsman representing the American
conscience. I do not mean to imply that there should be a retreat to the ivory
tower from which educators look forth at the rest of the world with benign
disinterest; but I do mean to state most emphatically that educational institu-
tions cannot pinch-hit for political and social institutions even when those

institutions appear to be faltering.
Commencement address, Wake Forest University: June 7, 1971

SOCIETY IN GENERAL and education in particular will have to recognize
the validity of new patterns as appropriate and acceptable ways to enter the
mainstream of American life. Thus, ancient standards of quality, erected with
such care against the onslaughts of mediocrity, will have to be revised and
expanded to the end that new kinds of institutions may emerge and achieve
validity.

Such an expanding diversification of American higher education will
mean, among other things, that each institution will to a greater degree than is
now the case have to provide its own reason for existence, its own internal
justification for doing things the way it does. There will have to be a retreat
from the educational faddism which has been rather rampant in recent

years....
Commencement address, Wake Forest University: June 7, 1971

Your BOARD OF TRUSTEES, your administration, many members of
the faculty and student body have been at work on this University’s planning
for the future in an especially intensive way for the past several years. Par-

President Huntley inspires in the student
body not only confidence and pride, but also a
commonality of purpose—which is funda-
mental to the community concept we share.
And it has been only through his unwavering
devotion to and genuine interest in the people
of this University that this has been achieved.
The students at Washington and Lee are proud

to be led by a gentleman of that caliber.
James M. Underhill ’78
President of the student body, 1977-78

I’m completely prejudiced in Bob Huntley’s
favor. He is simply the best president there is.
He’s done all anyone could want a president of
Washington and Lee to do. Judging from my
own relationships with him—personal and
professional—he has one of the finest minds
I’ve ever known. I was delighted when he was
elected president to succeed me; it makes me
proud to have been the president to precede
him.

Of course, he and W&L have the good for-
tune of his having a wife who keeps him from
getting too rambunctious. Evelyn is a great

partner in Washington and Lee’s family.
Fred C. Cole, former president (1959-67)
of the University, former president
(1967-77) of the Council on Library
Resources; W&L parent (Taylor Cole, ’75)

 

 

 

 

  

Nationwide student tension over national politics during 1970's “Seven Days in May” was felt
at W&SL as everywhere else; President Huntley stayed close (left) to fast-paced, unpredictable
developments, spending the entire week talking with students (above), faculty, alumni, parents
and others. When it had subsided, the Board of Trustees praised him and the rest of the WSL
community for handling the situation in a “wise, firm and courageous manner,” for maintaining
“adherence to orderly procedures—in contrast to coercion and disorder on many campuses,” and
preserving WSL’s “integrity as a seat of higher learning” while demonstrating “sensitivity to the
realities of a critical national situation.” But that week of tumult remains the exception in recent
W&SL history. Below left, the observance of the 100th anniversary of Robert E. Lee’s death (Oct.
12, 1970); below right, the Kentucky delegation at the 1968 Mock Convention surprised
W&SL’s new president during the parade with a gift of the Bluegrass State’s most popular
packaged product.

 

 

2 EE RA PP a ST
Ree

 

ticularly your Board has brought to bear its intelligence and the advice it could
gather from us in addressing these needs in what I believe to be the broadest,
most far-reaching study of the University’s future yet undertaken.

At the outset, certain premises were identified by the Board of Trustees,
and it is from these premises that planning had proceeded and will proceed in
the years ahead. I will state for you briefly my understanding of these general
premises:

—That the University would wish to remain small. This premise is a func-
tion of the internal strengths and values which are so deeply embedded in the
fabric of Washington and Lee’s past and which are the more important for
being the rarer in this world of gargantuan enterprise.

—That the University would need to maintain and enhance its long-stand-
ing commitment to the proposition that the best in liberal-arts education and
the best in professional or pre-professional education can and should be
combined at Washington and Lee. There is no dichotomy between them, but
rather each reinforces the other, and they become inextricably interwoven to
the enhancement of both. Therefore the scope and depth of Washington and
Lee’s curriculum must be retained. The growth and strengthening of our
academic program in the recent past has been truly extraordinary; we are
proud of it. But more than that: We are committed to it as the right course for
Washington and Lee.

—That Washington and Lee would in all likelihood not wish to add further
graduate programs, but will strive to do what it does in the best possible way
in The College, the School of Commerce, Economics and Politics, and the
School of Law.

—That the faculty it has attracted is this University’s greatest single
strength. The faculty must be large enough to create the opportunity for close
relationships with students and with each other; its members must have the
capacity and the integrity to be the intellectual stimulus on campus; the faculty
must be dedicated to the conviction that teaching and professional fulfillment
are career objectives which are consistent with each other and which bring the
greatest measure of personal satisfaction. We have such a faculty; we must
continue to have it.

—That there must be a selective but rich array of non-curricular and co-
curricular opportunities for our students and our faculty.

—That Washington and Lee’s bold move in the 1950s to an athletic pro-
gram that benefits all who wish to avail themselves of it was the right step. Far
from apologizing for it, we must deepen our commitment to it.

—That the University must have enlarged capacity to provide financial
help for students who share Washington and Lee’s philosophy of education
and wish to be a part of it but who cannot afford to attend the University
without assistance—for our objectives are not consistent with a student body
comprised of those who come here only because of circumstance.

—That financial integrity and soundness are essential, for without them
we will inevitably disappoint our aspirations and leave behind us a legacy of
failure.

—That the identification of present needs, and meeting them, be under-
taken in a way which will accommodate the need for flexibility. In other words,
the base we build must be secure enough to retain for us the attribute of
manageability, so that we and those who follow will be free to respond to the

future with imagination.
Announcement of the University’s Development Plan
for the Decade of the 1970s: Feb. 22, 1972

Ir IS ‘TRULY correct, as Dr. Gaines often noted, that General Lee sym-
bolizes for us that special, impossible-to-articulate quality which gets under
the skin of every Washington and Lee student and every alumnus and which is
our strongest virtue. What is that quality? Many have attempted to define it;
no one has fully succeeded, I think, and I am sure I shall not. Such statements
need to be personal in nature. To me, the quality is epitomized by the sense of

I remember he called us late on a Sunday—
around suppertime—and asked in a tight sort
of voice, Would it be all right if he came by to
talk for a minute? I told him of course it would,
if he’d give us a little time to finish eating. He said
he’d be right over, and he was. He came in and
sat down on the floor in the kitchen, hunkered
up against the pantry door, and we kept on
eating. He said “They asked me if I’d be presi-
dent.”” He paused for a moment. “And I ac-
cepted.” He turned his head a little to the side,
as if he were afraid Charley was going to fuss at
him. Charley chewed for a minute and finally
said, “Catherine, go get the president a chair.”
We talked about Washington and Lee—or,
rather, they talked; I couldn’t get a word in

edgewise—until midnight.
Catherine Feland McDowell,
secretary of the law school for
30 years and five deans; widow
of Prof. Charles R. McDowell

 

The most ambitious development program in Washington
and Lee history—and one of the most ambitious of any
small undergraduate teaching school in the nation—was
announced Feb. 22, 1972 (above). With a goal of $36
million by 1976, it was considered at first by some to be
impossible, regardless of how necessary. But soon after the
announcement, Frances and Sydney Lewis of Richmond
made a $9-million gift to the law program, and one
newspaper commented: “Some eyebrows were raised when
the size of this campaign was announced, but its realization
now appears much more attainable. . .. Washington and
Lee seems assured of an important and growing place in
the educational life of the state and nation.” And President
Huntley was able to announce, again on Founders’ Day,
that the University had not only achieved its awesome 1976
goal but had actually exceeded it by $1.4 million.

 

 

 

 

 

trust, the pervasive concept of honor, the intellectual integrity which, over all
the generations, has motivated those who dedicate their lives to us and which
has motivated those students and faculty for whom we exist.

It is a special quality that I believe to be rarer today than ever before. We do

not intend to lose it.
Announcement of the Development Plan for the
Decade of the 1970s: Feb. 22, 1972

WE ARE PRIMARILY a faculty of teachers, of men and women convinced
that for us the most satisfying and important career can be found in the
teaching-learning process with young minds. Therefore a major part of our
expectation about you has been that you would be apt students, that you would
find joy in this hard work of learning and that from that joy and that learning
would occur a kind of quiet excitement in intellectual inquiry which leads to
the development of the disciplined mind.

. . . I believe we have expected of each other that we be gentlemen—
gentlemen of firm conviction and purpose.

. .. Our expectations have been lofty; of course they have not all been
fulfilled. But I think we should make a serious mistake if, in regret over
disappointment, we fail to celebrate the countless ways in which you and all of
us have succeeded—and we would make an even more serious mistake if we

now, or ever, lower the quality of our expectations.
Commencement: June 1, 1972

WE LOOK, you and I, too much to our stars and too little to ourselves for
the sources of misfortune, inequity and injustice. . .. We exhaust ourselves in
vain searches for the sources of authority so that we may know whom to trust
or whom to blame, or perhaps so we can share some of it ourselves, or maybe
merely so we can derive some passive.comfort from knowing that someone is
running things. But still we demur when it comes to exerting authority in the

one realm where its potential is greatest—authority over ourselves.
su Commencement: May 31, 1973

EpucaTIon IS A fragile enterprise—and it is radically dangerous. . . . It
may be a hollow exercise, gone through with to please parents, or to placate
social demands, or to achieve a credential which, too late, is discovered to have
limited value in the market-place.

The enterprise itself may be an economically unsound one, generating a
product which it must sell at half its cost to a generation who are not sure they
want it.

... The enterprise may result in arousing the sometimes-unmanageable
passions of youth by giving them more leisure and more independence than
they can cope with. In an apparently senseless way, it insists upon treating its
students as mature adults when it knows they are not and when it knows the
consequence may be unsettling or even disastrous.

It encourages the kind of questioning and probing which may shake time-
tested principles and beliefs of students, faculty and society. It may, by ques-
tioning, threaten even the belief in the validity of educational enterprises and
inflame opinion against itself. Thus, what for a government might be treason
is for an educational institution routine. Surely it is incredible that society will
tolerate such an enterprise in its midst.

It does so only because of the conviction that the educational process is

good and is essential and that it cannot occur without these anomalies.
Commencement: May 30, 1974

Be OPEN AND GIVING in your relationships with others. It is really no
worse to be thought a fool than to be.one.

Trust others as fully as you can, and be worthy of their trust in return
without regard to how worthy you perceive them to be. The hurt that comes
when others disappoint you cannot compare with the self-doubt which comes
from isolation and suspicion.

During the last 10 years, I have often bragg-
ed unabashedly over the fact that I was the
chairman of the Board committee which rec-
ommended Robert Huntley for the presidency
of Washington and Lee. Now, at the end of a
decade, I submit that the wisdom of that rec-
ommendation has been decisively confirmed.

In the space allotted, I select from a number
of his contributions that might be mentioned
the following two: The continuing emphasis
on academic excellence, and the wise and
helpful role played by him in connection with
the Board’s reorganizing itself and becoming
more active both in the governing and in the
support of the University.

One of the nicest things that can be said
about Bob Huntley is that he is the kind of
person who would want me to acknowledge
that both of these developments were begun
during the presidency and under the leadership

_ of Fred Cole.

John Newton Thomas, ’24,
Rector Emeritus of the Board of
‘Trustees; member of the Board,

1938-73.

 

Washington and Lee University: A National Historic
Landmark. At the ceremony noting that designation (the
highest honor the federal government can confer on a
private site, and W&SL’s second such; Lee Chapel had been
declared a National Historic Landmark in 1961)
participants included then-Gov. Linwood Holton, ’49;
President Huntley; and Dr. John Newton Thomas, then
Rector of the Board of Trustees.

 

 

 

 

As to dress and manners, do not make the primary touchstone the pro-
clamation of your own distinction but rather the sensibilities of others, that
they may be easy in your presence.

Do not hesitate to lend or borrow, to give or seek help from others, out of
some mistaken belief that everyone must row his own boat alone.

Take joy in the gifts of mind and heart with which you are endowed; be
true to others; look beyond yourself for the love and the faith you will need to

Sustain you.
Commencement: May 29, 1975

WasuHINGTON AND LEE maintains a strong, unwavering commitment to
a curricular program during the undergraduate years that requires rigorous
inquiry into and study of one of the disciplines which time has proven to be
intellectually demanding, and that simultaneously requires of the student at
least some significant study in a number of other similar disciplines. The
objective, never quite accomplished, of course, is the achievement of intellec-
tual discipline and self-confidence through deep involvement in and approxi-
mate mastery of at least one demanding area of study, and at the same time the
achievement of some perspective on what might be called the human condi-
tion—particularly the accumulated achievements of the human intellect, the
power of reason, its strengths and its limitations.

This kind of educational objective is not a luxury, as some would assert, but

rather an extremely efficient way to prepare for a useful and fulfilling life.
“Report To Parents,” Parents’ Weekend: Nov. 6, 1976

‘THE MOST SIGNIFICANT aspect of student life here is the pervasive in-
fluence of the Honor System. I do not believe there are many places where the
concept of honor is taken so seriously or guarded so jealously by students as is
the case at Washington and Lee.

This notion of an honorable community is closely related to our educa-
tional objectives, for we think that the teaching/learning process flourishes
best in a situation in which mutual trust and respect form the bedrock of

relationships within the community.
“Report to Parents,” Parents’ Weekend: Nov. 6, 1976

INCREASINGLY THESE DAYS, a college or university which seriously
pursues the liberal-arts tradition as its organizing theme is called upon to
Justify its existence, to account for itself. Ina world where the educator is being
pushed into the role of purveyor of so-called marketable skills, the holder of a
degree from a liberal-arts institution is often asked: “Now that you've got it,
what are you going to do with it?” It’s a rude question—and whenever I’m
asked it there’s a mighty temptation to give a rude answer. For example: “My
dear sir (or madam), persons who ask such a question demonstrate their
inability to understand the answer.”
. .. Our purpose is education. And if it should happen that institutions
which are not ashamed to proclaim that as their purpose should vanish from

our nation, then may God have mercy on whatever remains.
Commencement: June 3, 1976

Wer DO NOT very often force advice on our students. One of the hallmarks
of Washington and Lee’s way of organizing itself is that we treat our students
as adults from the day they arrive here. They will be entering the world as
adults in a very few years, and if they don’t begin to recognize that fact here,
they may never begin to recognize it. We try very hard to stick to this principle,
even when our expectations are disappointed; on the rare occasions when
those expectations are disappointed, we don’t change the expectations. And,

generally speaking, those expectations are eventually realized.
“Report To Parents,” Parents’ Weekend: Oct. 29, 1977

Washington and Lee truly has a president
for all seasons—one who relates in inimitable
fashion and with equal skill with such diverse
constituents as students, faculty, parents, trus-
tees, alumni, donors, and other friends of the
University. We are continually impressed with
his enthusiasm, his knowledge of all facets of
University operation, his administrative skills,
and his articulateness. He is the right man at

the right time for Washington and Lee.
E. Marshall Nuckols, ’33, ’35L
Rector of the Board of Trustees

Bob Huntley could have no better goodwill
ambassador than Evelyn—nor could Washing-

ton and Lee.
Marshall and Pat Nuckols

 

“No better goodwill ambassador”—Evelyn Huntley greets
John M. Stemmons at Lee Associates’ reception at Mount
Vernon in 1974. Stemmons, a WSL trustee from 1965 to
1977, was Chairman of the Achievement Council, the
organization primarily responsible for the success of the first
portion of the Development Program.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

 

College presidents spend much of their time delivering speeches, and WEL’s president is more in
demand, it seems, than most. From such events as the inauguration of the superintendent of next-
door Virginia Military Institute, Gen. Richard L. Irby, at which President Huntley was the
principal speaker (above left; April 15, 1972) to meetings with alumni (left) and graduation
each spring (below left)—nothing is clearer than that he loves it.

 

 

NEW TRUSTEES

Mrs. Martin and Ballengee, ’48L, Are Named to Board

 

 

Mrs. James Bland Martin of Gloucester, past president of
The Garden Club of Virginia, and James M. Ballengee, a
prominent Philadelphia business executive, have been
elected to the University Board of Trustees.

Mrs. Martin was president of the statewide garden society
in 1962-64 and chairman of its Restoration Committee from
1966 to 1968. Currently she is a member of the board of The
Garden Club of America.

She was the editor of Follow The Green Arrow, a 50-year
history of the Garden Club published in 1970. The “green
arrow” is the symbol of the organization seen widely during
the Garden Week tours it sponsors annually throughout the
State.

Mrs. Martin is the former Christine Hale of Phoenix,
Ariz. Her husband, a 1931 law graduate of Washington and
Lee, is senior partner in the Gloucester law firm of Martin,
Hicks & Ingels. He was a member of the Virginia House of
Delegates from 1938 to 1942, and is a former member of the
Democratic State Central Committee.

Ballengee is president and chairman of Philadelphia
Suburban Corp., whose holdings include 20 subsidiary
companies. Among them are Philadelphia Suburban Water
Co., of which Ballengee was president and chairman at the
time the new holding company was formed in 1968.

He is a 1948 graduate of Washington and Lee’s law
school. He spent nine years in the private practice of law in
his native Charleston, W.Va., before being named associate gen-
eral counsel of Sears, Roebuck & Co. He became general attorney
and assistant secretary of Sears, Roebuck in 1961, and joined
Philadelphia Suburban Water the following year.

In addition to Philadelphia Suburban Corp. and
Philadelphia Suburban Water, he is a director of Berwind
Corp., First Philadelphia Bank & First Pennsylvania Corp.
and Fidelity Mutual Insurance Co. and a trustee of the
Philadelphia Saving Fund Society.

He is co-chairman of the Greater Philadelphia
Partnership, chairman of the eastern Pennsylvania chapter
of The Arthritis Foundation, a trustee of the Philadelphia
Museum of Art, a director and past chairman of both the
Bryn Mawr Hospital and the Greater Philadelphia Chamber
of Commerce, and past president of the metropolitan
Philadelphia board of the YMCA.

At Washington and Lee, he graduated first in his law
class and was an editor of the Law Review. He was elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa and in the Order of the Coif,
the legal honor society. He is a 1946 B.A. graduate of Morris
Harvey College in West Virginia, which awarded him an
honorary Doctor of Laws degree in 1972.

He and his wife, the former Jo MclIlhattan, reside in Bryn
Mawr. They have three children, the oldest of whom, their
son James Jr., isa 1972 graduate of Washington and Lee.

 

Mrs. James Bland Martin

James M. Ballengee

 

 

12

 

President Huntley closes out the two information-packed days of the special conference in the Moot Court Room in Lewis Hall.

By Douglass W. Dewing ’77

SPECIAL CONFERENCE

Alumni Delegates Receive Detailed Data on the State of the University

During the last weekend in April more than 60 “special
alumni” attended the 10th Special Alumni Conference at
WEL.

The purpose of the conference is simple—candid, face-
to-face communication between the University and its
alumni. The administration and the Alumni Board of
Directors want the alumni to“know first-hand why the
University is as it is today, what changes have occurred since
they were students here—why these changes were desirable,
necessary, or inevitable, as the case may be—and what has
not changed.

The goal of the conference is a better-informed alumni
constituency throughout the nation upon whom the
University can continue to depend for understanding and
active support.

The conference took place in four major sessions—
University Finance, Development and Alumni Affairs;
Teaching at W&L; Admissions, Student Recruitment and
Student Life; and Special Group Discussions between small
groups of alumni and students with no faculty or
administration members present.

UNIVERSITY FINANCE, DEVELOPMENT, AND
ALUMNI AFFAIRS

Between 1954 and 1968, the University spent only $6
million on physical development of the campus and
facilities—for the construction of duPont Hall and the New
Science building, since renamed Parmly Hall, and the
renovations of Howe Hall and Lee Chapel.

Since President Huntley entered office 10 years ago, the
University has spent or has plans to spend nearly $26 million
to build Lewis Hall, the Woods Creek apartments, the new
library, and a major addition to and renovation of Doremus
Gymnasium.

These new buildings are not designed to accommodate
an expanding student body, but rather, as Frank Parsons,
assistant to the president, said, “to let us do the job we intend
to do, better.”

Only the law school plans some growth with its new
facilities. Their student body will increase in size from
approximately 210 to 350. That process is two-thirds
finished and will be complete with the entering class in
September.

Only 60 percent of W&L’s $10-million dollar annual
operating budget comes from tuition money. The rest 1s
supplied by income from the endowment and by gifts from
alumni, parents, foundations, corporations, and other
friends. Tuition and alumni giving are the only two
categories which have gone up more than proportionately
during the last 10 years. Alumni and parents’ gifts supplied
approximately 10 percent of the University’s operating
budget this year.

In fact, there would have been a deficit last year if the
Annual Fund had not exceeded its goal. Actual deficits could
lie ahead in the next few years, unless the University’s
endowment grows.

Among “peer schools,” W&L has one of the lowest tuition
costs, one of the lowest cost-per-student figures, and one of
the highest average faculty salaries. But its endowment,
compared with those of the same schools, is near the bottom.
W&L’s has always been low, but inflation and the current
building plans have put an additional strain on the
endowment.

During the first part of the University’s Development
Program for the Decade of the 70s, it was planned to
increase the endowment $14 million, from $17 million to $31
million. But only $8 million was raised for the endowment,
and only $4 million was effectively added. Inflation, the
stock market drop in the mid-’70s, and the proposed
building program, with its attendant increased operating
costs, wiped out the rest of the gain.

The income from endowment is used, in part, to pay the
operatings costs of the buildings. Farris Hotchkiss, director
of development, said a rule of thumb is that “For every
dollar put into plant, another should go into the
endowment.”

13

SPECIAL CONFERENCE

 

The money the University received from John Lee Pratt’s
bequest is not available for such purposes, because Pratt
stipulated the money be used to improve faculty salaries and
supply student financial aid.

James W. Whitehead, the University’s treasurer, said next
year’s budget anticipates a $300,000 deficit—just about what
the expected upkeep of the new library will be. A deficit of
that size can be eliminated by the earnings of $6 million in
endowment.

Future fundraising objectives have not been announced
yet, but they will be designed to fill the gaps in the
University’s financing. The problem with operating at a
deficit is that money that should go to the endowment has to
be used to pay bills. Among the projects still in the planning
stages are the renovations of McCormick Library and
Newcomb Hall.

ADMISSIONS, STUDENT RECRUITMENT AND
STUDENT LIFE

James Farrar has moved from the post of director of
admissions to that of director of alumni efforts in recruiting,
a field for which the University has high hopes. A search for
a director and assistant director of admissions is underway,
and Lewis G. John, dean of students and acting director of
admissions, said he expected the two new staffers to begin
work over the summer.

The University’s self-study report confirmed what the
people in the admissions office had suspected was true: they
were trying to do too much with too few people. As the
competition for excellent students increases (the crest of the
last baby boom has passed), W&L must actively seek the
high-caliber student it needs. This more aggressive attitude
toward admissions is reflected in the hiring of a director and
assistant director to replace Dean Farrar, the hiring of two
graduates rather than just one to work in the admissions
office next year and the new emphasis on recruiting by
alumni.

Why the increased emphasis, the switch to more
aggressive recruiting techniques? Probably the best answer is
this year’s rather eccentric admissions story.

A 400-to-600 word essay requirement was added to this
year’s application form. The essay requirement is credited

14

with reducing applications from the 1,320 received last year
to 972 this year. Applications were expected to drop, because
such an essay has a screening effect, but the drop was much
larger than initially anticipated.

Determined to sacrifice class size for the maintenance of
academic standards, W&L offered places in its freshman
class to fewer than it had last year. Letters, including one
from President Huntley to parents of accepted applicants,
and phone calls from area alumni marked the determined
effort of the University to attract the students it had
accepted. And it worked.

As of the first week in May, 396 students had indicated
they would attend W&L next fall. Even with the anticipated
attrition of 20 to 25 students during the summer, more than
55 percent of the students to which W&L offered admission
accepted the offer. In past years, the acceptance rate has
been between 45 and 48 percent. The preferred class size at
W&L is 350; next year’s class looks to be 375.

The quality of the class also looks good, in that it does not
differ significantly from past entering classes. There was no
rise in the academic credentials of the incoming students (in
areas such as class rank and SATs), but neither was there a
decline.

Dean John expressed his concern about the growing
number of private-school graduates at W&L. The University
is now split almost 50-50 between public and private school
students, he said, and he feels the middle-income family’s
son is being squeezed out at W&L, which deprives the
student body of part of its diversity.

The cost differential between attending W&L and the
University of Virginia, for instance, amounts to $10,000 over
four years, he said. To attract the “cost-conscious” student,
he suggests that alumni recruitors talk about the financial aid
program and the honor scholarships. Virginia residents are
also eligible for the Tuition Assistance Loan Program
(TALP). With an honor scholarship and the TALP money,
the difference is only $1000 per year, instead of $2,400, and
if convinced of the worth of the W&L education, many
families will find the money, he said. (W&L continues to
attempt—and has been 100 percent successful in recent
years—to award financial aid to every student whose family
needs it, and in the full amount of the aid.)

 

Some of the benefits of W&L which Dean John and Prof.
Huntley mentioned were the low student-faculty ratio (11-1),
the fact that the W&L student has immediate contact with his
professors, many of whom hold doctorate degrees (Huntley
said that at the University of Wisconsin he didn’t see an
actual professor until his sophomore year, and when he
became a teaching assistant, he was told his work mattered
far more than that of his students), and the small classes (the
majority have 15 or fewer students).

The rise in students’ grades at W&L, or “grade inflation,”
was another issue. Grade inflation at W&L was seen as
moderate, as the median grade average is between 2.7 and
2.8. It was attributed primarily to two factors. The
competition for admission to graduate school, where high
grades are a necessity for entry, and the liberalization of the
curriculum were the reasons the panel saw for the slight rise
in grades at W&L. Dr. H. Robert Huntley, professor of
English and assistant dean of students, said the students are
taking courses for which they felt better qualified, or that
they are interested in taking, and as a result they are doing
better work. Dean John admitted that if he were in school
today, he would avoid some of the courses he had been
required to take, such as mathematics. Prof. Huntley went on
to say there were “crib” courses at W&L, but he saw them
more as lifesavers for the less-than-brilliant students more
than as grade boosters for the good students.

The admission of W&L undergraduates into the
University’s own law school was a sore subject among the
alumni. Many said they had gathered the impression that the
law school was actively discriminating against the W&L
undergraduate. William McC. Schildt, assistant dean of the
law school and former assistant dean of admissions for the
undergraduate school, said that appearance is the result not
of action on the part of the law school, but because of the
large numbers of applicants the law school must deal with.
“In 1968,” he said, “there were three or four applications for
each place in the entering class. Today, applications have
risen to 10 to 14 for each place in the entering class.”

The law school received 1,287 applications for the 125
places in next fall’s class. Students from 281 different schools
applied. Schildt said that W&L students used to make up a
large percentage of the applicant pool, but don’t any longer.

PRIVATE STUDENT-ALUMNI SESSION

Among the subjects talked about during the student-
alumni meetings were the Honor System, the image of the
University, job placement, black students and other
minorities, fraternities and fraternity houses and their
upkeep, drugs on campus, coeducation and other student
issues.

TEACHING AT W&L

There has been no significant change in the caliber of
W&L’s best students, according to this panel, but the bottom
20 percent of the class is worse than the bottom 20 percent
used to be. Dr. Sidney Coulling, ’48, said the Russian
spacecraft Sputnik scared America into putting more effort
into education. The result of that push was seen in the
middle and late 1960s, when Coulling said he had seen his
best students. The students today, he said, were in
elementary school when he had these good students, and as
the education scare was over, weren't taught English
grammar or mathematics. “They took sociology or
psychology instead,” said Coulling. “I have had a student
who can talk about the Oedipus complex, but can’t spell
Freud’s name.”

The ability to write in English is essential, W&L teachers
believe, but they can’t undo 12 years of damage in 12 weeks.
According to Coulling, the damage was done by the time
today’s students finished the fourth grade.

Despite some loss in course depth resulting from the
switch from the two 15-week semesters to the 12-12-6
calendar, the panel said it was pleased with the six-week
term, which provides some unparalleled opportunities for
insensive study.

Dr. Gary Dobbs, ’70, said that when he was a student,
there was only one field course. With the new spring term,
there are field courses in geology, botany, zoology, a field
trip to the Galapagos Islands, and full-time internships in a
number of departments. The courses are a godsend, Dobbs
said, because a field course requires a student’s full time,
time which just couldn’t be devoted to a course under the old
calendar.

The panel remarked on a few of the disadvantages of the
six-week term programs, as they saw them. One panel

15

SPECIAL CONFERENCE

member said that the spring term abroad programs favor
those that can afford them (travel costs for the program are
not included in tuition) and some students who might gain
most from such courses can’t afford to take them.

The students who remain on campus during the spring
term have another problem. Taking only one course during
the short term—unless it involves a great deal of research—
means the student might not really have enough work to do.
But, if a student is taking two courses, he can easily be
overloaded because of the fast rate in which material must be
assimilated during the short term.

Faculty opinion is divided, but among the panel
members, the short term was seen as a very advantageous
addition to W&L’s academic program.

Coeducation was another issue on which the faculty is
divided. At a faculty meeting in the fall of 1975, it voted 51
in favor, 49 against, with three abstensions, on the issue.

Dobbs said there were many good arguments for
coeducation, but the one he disliked most, and that held the
least validity in his view, was that “A W&L student is
insidiously affected by the all-male environment. The record
doesn’t show that,” he said, “W&L men go on to become

leaders in their fields.”

Dr. Coulling summarized the arguments for coeducation,
which he said were set forth by Dr. Pamela Simpson during
an earlier session. He said the basic arguments were that

women in the classroom would add their attitudes and point
of view to the discussion (a point with which Coulling
agreed, saying it would be of value in a discussion of a
female novelist or a female character); that women on
campus would make it more nearly normal and enhance the
academic atmosphere by reducing the hectic weekend-only
social life; that the University should be a microcosm of the
real world, not a very thin slice of just one part of it; and that
men who will have to deal with women later in their lives

should learn how they think.

The members of the panel were generally against the
idea of coeducation, but said:-if the academic qualifications of
the entering students were to drop, then they would rather
see qualified women than unqualified men in their classes.

When the alumni participants asked what one thing they,
as alumni, could do to assist the University, the panel was
unanimous in its opinion that alumni recruiting of quality
students would be of the greatest value to W&L. A brief
caveat was added by Dr. Edward Atwood, dean of the School
of Commerce, Economics and Politics, who was sitting in on
the session. He said an alumnus shouldn't take a parent’s
word about his son’s grades, but should check them out
personally. The student who needs a recommendation from
an alumnus who doesn’t know him well may not be the best
student, but his parents won't tell you that.

 

If you have questions about anything which went on at
the special conference, the following alumni attended:

William J. Cox, 717
Leesburg, Va.

Allein Beall Sr., ’18
Helena, Ark.

Calvin T. Burton, ’25
Roanoke, Va.

T. T. Moore, ’26
Roanoke, Va.

Carl V. Harris, ’28
Covington, Va.

Stuard Wurzburger, ’28
Lexington, Va.

Houston M. Minniece, ’31
Pass Christian, Miss.

V.F. Marshall, ’34
New York, N. Y.

Forrest Huffman, ’36
Lexington, Va.

Donald R. Moore, ’37
Washington, D. C.

Hugh P. Avery, ’39
Seabrook, Texas

Thomas E. Bruce Jr., 40
Scottsville, Va.

Robert E. Hill, ’40
Summitt, N. J.

Robert C. Peery, 41
Richmond, Va.

William B. Van Buren III, ’44
Watchung, N. J.

E. B. Addison, ’45
Atlanta, Ga.

Charles C. Stieff II, ’45
Baltimore, Md.

16

Carter R. Allen, ’48L
Waynesboro, Va.

E. Stewart Epley, ’49
Stephentown, N. Y.

Richard P. Cancelmo, ’51
Villanova, Pa.

William G. Fuqua, ’52
Russellville, Ky.

Robert L. Banse, ’53L
Lawrenceville, N. J.

Overton P. Pollard, 54, ’57L
Richmond, Va.

Ralph A. Cusick Jr., 56
Bethesda, Md.

John Ellis, 56
New York, N. Y.

Sid Kaplan, 56
Cleveland, Ohio

Noel P. Copen, ’57L
Huntington, W. Va.

Charles R. Thompson, ’57
Locust Valley, N. Y.

A. J. Lester, ’58
Martinsville, Va.

William M. Bowen, ’61
Hilton Head Island, S. C.

David D. Carothers, ’61
Dallas, Texas

Beverly M. Dubose III, ’62
Atlanta, Ga.

Paul K. Rhoads, ’62
Chicago, III.

Ben Chapman, ’64
Lake Placid, N. Y.

Brice R. Gamber, ’64
Scotch Plains, N. J.

Mike Jenkins, ’64
Montgomery, Ala.

‘T. Patton Adams, 65
Columbia, S. C.

Frank A. Bailey III, ’66
Ft. Worth, Texas

Charles W. Jones, ’66
Atlanta, Ga.

John E. Kelly, 66, ’69L
Philadelphia, Pa.

David D. Redmond, ’66, ’69L
Richmond, Va.

Gaylord C. Hall III, ’67
Dallas, Texas

James C. Treadway Jr., °67L
Washington, D. C.

William F. Stone, ’68
Martinsville, Va.

Lee Halford Jr., 69
Dallas, Texas

Alan W. Lee, ’69
Charlotte, N. C.

Homer D. Winter III, 69
Earlysville, Va.

John A. Wolf, ’69, ’72L
Baltimore, Md.

B. Waugh Crigler, ’70
Culpeper, Va.

Benjamin B. Cummings Jr., ’70L
Petersburg, Va.

Malcolm H. Squires Jr., ’70, °73L
Arlington, Va.

Robert A. Vinyard, ’70L
Abingdon, Va.

Joseph J. Blake Jr., 72
Greenville, S. C.

Donald B. Cartwright, ’72
Columbia, Md.

Donald T. McMillan, ’72, ’75L
New York, N. Y.

Albert P. McWhorter, ’72
Montgomery, Ala.

Robert M. Turnbull, ’72
Richmond, Va.

John V. Little, ’73
Charlottesville, Va.

James A. Mahan III, ’73
Winston-Salem, N. C.

David R. Braun, ’76
Milwaukee, Wis.

Terry Atwood, ’77
Richmond, Va.

If you are interested in attending the conference next year,

call or write William C. Washburn, secretary of the alumni
association; Buddy Atkins, assistant secretary; Farris Hotchkiss,
director of development or James Farrar, director of

alumni recruiting.

Ce

 

Admissions acceptances up;
375 freshmen expected

More than 55 percent of the
applicants to whom Washington and Lee
offered admission for next September
have accepted that offer, the most
favorable confirmation rate in a dozen
years, admissions officials reported in
May. ,

The objective characteristics of the
September 1978 entering class—class
rank in secondary school and College
Board scores—are virtually identical
among the students who have confirmed
their intention to attend W&L in the
autumn as they were among last fall’s
freshman class, the University said.

Near the end of May, 396
prospective freshmen had indicated
their intention to enroll at W&L next
fall. The University seeks an entering
class of 350 to 360 students each year.
Based on past experience, admissions
officials say, as many as 20 to 25 will
decide over the summer not to attend
WL after all. j

The 55 percent confirmation figure
is based on a projection of 375 freshmen
actually enrolling.

In recent years, the confirmation
figure has typically been 46 to 48
percent—meaning that slightly fewer
than half the applicants W&L accepted
actually enrolled.

University officials attribute the
upswing this year in the confirmation
rate to substantially increased recruiting
and follow-up communication on the
part of admissions officials, together
with the addition this year of an essay
which all applicants were required to
submit.

The 400-to-600-word essay had the
effect of discouraging applications from
students whose interest in attending
W&L was marginal and further of
discouraging applications from students
who recognized they had little
reasonable chance of being accepted,
admissions officials said.

“The essay had the effect we had
desired, resulting in a considerable
measure of self-screening among the
potential applicant pool,” Dr. Lewis G.
John, admissions director and dean of
students, said.

GAZETTE

At a recent general meeting, the
W&L faculty formally reiterated the
University’s commitment to maintaining
a student body of superior academic
excellence.

W&lL processed a total of 972
completed applications this year.
“Completed applications” are those for
which all transcripts, recommendations
and other required materials were
received. That figure was down from
last year’s 1,320. Dr. John said the
dropoff occurred, as admissions officials
had anticipated, almost entirely among
potential applicants who recognized they
were clearly unqualified or who had no
strong desire to attend W&L from the
beginning.

By agreement among most of the
nation’s colleges, May | is the final date
for applicants to make their decision
about whether or not to attend the
colleges that have accepted them.

 

| John W. Warner

 

Trustee Warner donates
books to law library

John W. Warner, ’49, a member of
the Board of Trustees since 1968, has
given more than 600 law books, valued
at almost $5,000, to the Wilbur C. Hall
Library of the School of Law.

The books represent “an extremely

useful addition to W&L’s increasingly
important research facilities,” according
to Sarah Wiant, head law librarian. Most
of the books in the Warner donation are
general practicioners’ reference works.
Warner is a former Secretary of the
Navy and was chairman of the American
Revolution Bicentennial Commission.

 

Mellon grant supports
faculty development

The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation
has given Washington and Lee a
$208,000, four-year grant to support a
number of faculty professional-
development programs, designed to
increase the effectiveness of faculty
members as teacher/scholars.

The Mellon grant will support those
activities while the University raises
permanent funds to continue them
through its own endowment income.

Part of the Mellon grant will permit
W&L to bring teachers from other
colleges and universities and leaders
from business, industry and government
to W&L as visiting professors either for
one academic term or for a full
academic year.

The grant will also establish a new
program under which entire academic
departments at W&L will visit
counterpart departments at other
colleges when W&cL is not in session.
The visitation program will permit
critical self-evaluation and the exchange
of professional ideas and information
with teaching colleagues elsewhere.

The Mellon grant will also provide
funds to permit teachers, especially
younger faculty members, to visit and
consult individually with colleagues
elsewhere on their teaching and their
own personal research. The grant will
also provide supplements on a selective
basis to teachers on leave in support of
particularly promising or noteworthy
research projects, and will also provide
additional support for Washington and
Lee’s John M. Glenn summer research
and study program.

The Glenn fund consists of a
$120,000 endowment established in
1953 by the late Mr. Glenn, an 1879
W&L alumnus who was an officer of the

17

GAZETTE

Russell Sage Foundation. Each year,
approximately 10 to 12 W&L teachers
receive grants from the income from the
Glenn endowment to help them carry
out summer research and professional
self-development.

In making announcement of the
Mellon Foundation gift, the rector of the
W&L Board of Trustees, E. Marshall
Nuckols Jr., declared: “No less
important to this University than the
tangible value of this grant is the
renewed expression of confidence it
represents on the part of the Mellon
Foundation in the vitality of Washington
and Lee’s abiding purpose—to remain
one of the nation’s outstanding teaching
colleges.”

 

$150,000 bequest received
for Commerce School

. Washington and Lee has received a
bequest of $150,000 from the estate of
the late Lewis Waters Milbourne, ’22, a
Baltimore broadcasting executive who
died last year. The bequest is designated
for the School of Commerce, Economics
and Politics.

After spending several years in the
real estate and investment banking
fields, in 1938 he became general
manager and vice-president of WCAO,
then the CBS radio affiliate in
Baltimore. He died July 9, 1977, after a
long illness.

W&L is currently planning to
remodel McCormick Library to become
the home of the School of Commerce,
Economics and Politics. Milbourne’s
bequest will be applied toward the cost
of that project, estimated at $3-million.
The project will be begun as soon as
sufficient funds are raised toward that
cost after the library moves into its new
building, now under construction and
expected to be completed this winter.

 

Webster is winner
of Barber Scholarship

William M. Webster IV of Greenville,
S.C., has been named the recipient of
the G. Holbrook Barber Honor

18

 

 

Washington & Lee is

pe e80

University
of Virginia

Stickers for the asking

When Richard L. Greenberg, a se-
cond-year law student, made up his
“Washington and Lee is THE Univer-
sity of Virginia” bumper stickers, no-
body had any idea that he was filling an
apparently aching void in the hearts of
alumni everywhere. We thought it was
a clever (not to mention true) observa-
tion, and it helped make a good cover
for the March magazine.

The minute the magazine arrived
in the hands of alumni, the switchboard
in Lexington was flooded with calls

 

asking “How do I get one?” (One side
effect was that we were able to trace
delivery patterns of the magazine by
noting where each day’s waves of calls
came from.)

So we had some printed up our-
selves. They’re now available free on
request. Write the W&L News Office,
Lexington 24450. Then you too can be
like the nameless alumnus in Char-
lottesville who now has one on his sta-
tion wagon—right next to his parking
sticker for U.Va., where he is a high
administration official. )

 

 

Scholarship. He will be a senior next
year.

The Barber Scholarship, established
last year by Mrs. Barber in honor of the
memory of her late husband, is awarded
to the undergraduate senior at W&L
who has “made the greatest contribution
to the spirit of the campus and Univer-
sity activities, helpfulness toward others,
respect for fellow students, character,
and academic achievements.

Webster is an Honor Roll student
majoring in both English and German.
He was co-chairman this year of the
student body symposium, “Contact,” and
a member of the Curriculum
Committee.

He was inducted this winter into
membership in Omicron Delta Kappa,
the national honorary leadership society
founded at Washington and Lee in
1914. He was one of only five juniors
tapped for membership.

The Holbrook Barber Scholarship is
awarded by a special committee consist-
ing of the dean of The College and two
student representatives designated by

the president of the University.

Holbrook Barber was a 1917 W&L
graduate who practiced medicine in
New York from 1921, when he received
his M.D. degree from Columbia, until
his retirement in 1951. He was medical
director of Manhattan Life Insurance
Co. for many years as well. He died
Nov. 6, 1970.

His widow is the former Elizabeth
Cross of Lexington.

 

Gilliam Award goes
to Maryland senior

The Frank J. Gilliam Award,
Washington and Lee’s most prestigious
student honor, was presented to George
Francis Griffin IV at the annual dinner
banquet for graduating seniors.

The award is given to the senior who
has made the most outstanding
contribution to the University. The
recipient is selected by non-graduating
members of the Executive Committee,
and consists of $100 to the recipient and

 

$150 to a campus organization or
academic department designated by the
recipient.

The award was established in 1963 in
) honor of Dean Frank J. Gilliam, who
was W&L’s Dean of Admissions and
Dean of Students for three decades.
Dean Gilliam died in 1976.

Griffin is currently vice president of
the student body. He has been a student
manager of the dining hall for three
years and a dormitory counselor for two
years.

He previously was one of two junior
class representatives on the Executive
Committee. He was also one of two
sophomore representatives on the
University Council, a faculty-student
committee.

He was manager of the varsity
baseball team his freshman year and was
instrumental in reactivating W&L’s
chapter of Kappa Alpha Order. Griffin
is amember of Pi Sigma Alpha, a national
honor society in politics. He is from
Rockville, Md.

44

 

W&L 1s well represented
at science meeting

Eight students and seven faculty
members from Washington and Lee
participated in the 56th Annual Meeting
of the Virginia Academy of Science in
Blacksburg.

They included Dr. Michael A. Pleva,
associate professor of chemistry, Mark
H. Derbyshire, a senior from Baltimore,
Md., and Dr. John H. McDaniel,
assistant professor of anthropology, in
the chemistry section.

Participating in the psychology
section were David G. Elmes, professor
of psychology; William T.
| Thistlethwaite, a junior from Washing-
ton, D.C.; Jay A. Lutins, a junior from
Roanoke, Va.; Robin C. Bernhard, an
exchange student from Hollins College;
Andrew C. Shutrumpf, a sophomore
from Richmond, Va.; James T.
Christmas, a senior from Monkton, Md.;
Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, professor of
psychology; Stuart L. Craig Jr., a
senior from Danville, Va., and John D.
Stout, a sophomore from Kingston, N.Y.

Dr. William Hinton, professor

 

 

emeritus of psychology, was chairman of
a panel discussion on “Psychology in
Virginia.”

Representing Washington and Lee at
the meeting in geology was Edgar W.
Spencer, professor of geology.

W. Barlow Newbolt, professor of
physics, was a councilor for the academy
in the astronomy, physics and
mathematics section.

 

MacDonald’s research paper
is competition winner

A research paper written by a
Washington and Lee journalism
professor, analyzing the effectiveness
with which broadcasters in small radio-
station markets determine community
needs and problems, has been chosen as
one of three winning research projects
in a national competition.

The paper, “Community
Ascertainment Practices of Small-Market
Broadcasters under the FCC’s Second
Primer,” is by R. H. MacDonald,
professor of journalism and head of the
Department of Journalism and
Communications. The competition was
sponsored by the Broadcast Education
Association, the educational affiliate of
the National Association of
Broadcasters.

MacDonald’s research was supported
by a John M. Glenn grant from
Washington and Lee and by a one-term
leave-of-absence last autumn.

His research evaluated the
techniques used by broadcasters in
communities of less than 10,000
population in meeting Federal
Communications Commission (FCC)
requirements that they maintain lists of
local problems. Licensed broadcast
Stations are expected by the FCC to help
address those problems. In larger
markets, “ascertainment surveys” are
required, but small-market broadcasters
have been exempt from the survey
requirement since 1976.

MacDonald visited 11 radio stations
in 10 small Vermont towns over a five-
week period last summer, interviewing
station managers and community
leaders. He found an acceptable level of
agreement on local problems, and then

used U.S. Census date to extrapolate his
Vermont data sample to a nationwide
conclusion—that small-town station
managers succeed in discerning
community problems with reasonable
accuracy, but that the cutoff should
probably not be raised above the 10,000-
population level.

MacDonald, a native of Vermont
who had his first jobs in broadcasting
there, joined the W&L journalism
faculty in 1969 after 13 years with
WDBJ-Tv News in Roanoke, Va.

 

Recent visitors

Visitors to the campus during May
included:

—Dr. James Franklin Childress,
Joseph P. Kennedy Sr. Professor of
Christian Ethics at Georgetown
University, professor of religion at the
University of Virginia, author and
editor, for a lecture sponsored by
Society and the Professions, W&L’s
ethics program, entitled “Liberty
Paternalism and Health Care”;

—Robert H. Giles, executive editor
of the Gannett newspapers in Rochester,
N.Y., to lead a two day seminar in
newspaper personnel management,
sponsored by the journalism department
as part of its ongoing program to assist
practicing journalists;

—Paul J. Mishkin, the Emanuel S.
Heller Professor of Law at the
University of California at Berkeley, for
the 30th Annual John Randolph Tucker
Lecture in Law which was about “Our
Federalism’ and the Limits of Litigation
to Reform Governmental Institutions”;

—Dr. Robert H. McDonald,
professor of medicine at the University
of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and
chairman of the Committee for the Use
of Human Subjects for Experimental
Purposes, to speak on the topic “Do
Human Rights Interfere with Progress?:
An Examination of the Problems of
Consent in Medical Research”;

—Chao Yu-pei, professor at the
National Taiwan Normal University,
and Liu Yung, a painter, poet, actor and
television commentator in Taiwan, to
lecture and demonstrate calligraphy and
brush painting.

19

De

 

SUMMER
THEATER

First in Lexington
Since Vaudeville Days

Historical restoration 1s the big thing
in Lexington these days and the
University Theatre, also known as the
Troubadours, is playing a part. This
summer, they will become the Henry
Street Playhouse and Stock Company
and present the first summer theater in
Lexington since the days of vaudeville.

All the groundwork for the summer
theater is being done in the “total
theater” class, Drama 139, which is being
offered this spring.

Shortly after Tom Ziegler, assistant

 

professor of drama, arrived in
Lexington, Al Gordon, professor of
drama and head of the fine arts
department, suggested that Lexington
would be a good place for summer stock
theater. As both men had worked in
summer stock before coming to W&L,
they began looking into the idea in more
detail. They decided the total theater
class would be the perfect building block
for a summer theater.

“Each year, the total theater class has
a different concept or problem to work
on,” Ziegler said. “Last year it was
repertory theater, doing two or more
plays back to back. The year before, it
was outdoor theater. This year, the
problem we set up was establishing a
summer theater.”

The two felt there was a place for
summer theater in Lexington.
“Lexington is a marvelous place to visit
during the day,” Ziegler explained, “but
there is nothing to do at night. We’re
hoping the theater will fill that void.”

Getting the theater started
required—besides the expected stage,
actors, props and costumes—a gimmick,
something that would interest the
community in the theater. Because of
local interest in history and
preservation, Gordon and Ziegler
decided the theater would do pieces
from the turn of the century.

Response from the community has
been positive, according to Ziegler. The
city has given them some money to get
started, but the form of approval the

 

By Charles C. Smith, ’79

News Director, WLUR

THE WHITE
HOUSE BEAT

WLUR Newsman Samples
Presidential News Briefing

“IT am trying to do a good job. I will
make my share of mistakes. When I am
right, I need your support and your
public expression of support...”

Thus spoke Jimmy Carter in a
question-and-answer session with 200
college newspaper editors and news
directors of campus radio stations. The
conference also included five experts in
different areas in the Carter
administration. I was struck not only by
the efforts of each to sell the president

and his policies, but also by the cross-
current of information from and to the
White House.

There was little earth-shattering
news to come out of the conference. But
I still felt privileged to have gone. I felt
as though I was representing the entire
University, although my official capacity
was as news director of the radio station.
I represented the school proudly, for
the strength of the W&L journalism
department is its use of real events as
preparation for a career, as opposed to
being locked in a classroom.

I was also lucky to have been in
Washington at all, considering my
physical state: the Russian flu had made
its rounds that week on campus and I
went to the press conference with a 103-
degree temperature above the vigorous
protests of the infirmary nurse.

The March 3 briefing was sponsored
by the Washington chapter of Sigma
Delta Chi, the professional journalists’
society, and presented by the Office of
Media Liaison for the White House. The
office is headed by Walt Wurfel, deputy
press secretary, and Patricia Bario,
associate press secretary. Ann Compton,
ABC-TV White House correspondent,
who had recently been in Lexington for

 

Charles C. Smith

a W&L journalism ethics seminar, told
me that Wurfel is second only to Jody
Powell in efficiency. Bario, Compton
confided, is considered a “dingbat.”

20

David “Capt. ‘Big Jim’ Warington” Sorrells tells Penni “Little Mary” Westbrook that she is fairer than any

 

 

flower in her garden—that she is “An American Beauty Rose.”

University gave is almost as dear to the
theater group. Besides allowing the

summer group to use the theater itself,
W&L installed air conditioning. “We’re

 

taking that as a signal of real approval,”
Ziegler said, “because that, more than
anything, makes it possible to use the
theater during the summer.”

The actors, many of them students
who will be staying for the summer, will
be paid, but not salaries. As was the rule
in many 19th century summer
companies, the actors and other
participants will be issued stock in the
summer company. If the theater is a
success, they will be paid from the
profits. If it is a failure, the stockholders
absorb the loss themselves.

Besides being historically accurate,
Ziegler said this method “motivates them
to get off their carcasses and make it
work.”

“The students are excited about the
summer concept,” he added, “not so much
from the arts angle, but because so many
students here are business oriented. The
appeal is the business of theater and
starting a theater.” Half the class is
made up of the business-oriented
students, who are handling the publicity
and trying to raise enough money to
make the three-play season work.

Of the three plays to be done during
the summer season, only Little Mary
Sunshine is a musical. It is a

‘?

7

The liaison office’s function is no
different from that of any other public
relations firm: its job is to sell the
president. And throughout the briefing,
that tone was clear—we, as neophyte
reporters, were bombarded with praise
for Carter.

Wurfel, who bears a striking
resemblance to Atlanta Braves owner
Ted Turner, summed up his office’s
function in response to a question of
whether it serves the president or the
public. “We work for the president,” he
said, adding that its main purpose was to
make Carter look good.

One by one, administration experts
presented the president’s side on
domestic issues, the Panama Canal
treaties and international issues. The
lightest point in the conference came
with the introduction of Midge
Costanza, who had recently been un-
invited to a Virginia State Democratic
dinner for saying that two old-line
members of the General Assembly
“ought to be ashamed of themselves,”
for voting against ratification of the
Equal Rights Amendment.

Then came the magic moment. All
else was forgotten when James Earl
Carter appeared. The lights, which were

already bright enough, were increased
for the benefit of the television cameras
which had just appeared. As they came
up, the room temperature rose
dramatically—or it may have been my
blood pressure.

I looked around, stunned,
speculating, soaking in all the elements.
In my shaken state, I confess that I
committed one of the most grevious of
all journalistic sins: I forgot to take notes
on the first two questions.

I was also unable to ask the president
the question I had prepared for him
concerning natural gas deregulation. I
was also disappointed that I could not
use the speech I had composed on the
merits of the Mock Convention’s faith in
him two years ago.

One of my first conscious thoughts
was that somewhere among the mass of
people who had just flooded into the
side aisles were members of the
networks, wire services and major
newspapers. I wondered if my lead
would match theirs. (It did not—their
lead was from one of the questions I had
missed. But in an informal poll taken
among the students after the speech, I
found at least two others who had
matched my lead.)

As press conferences go, no doubt
this was dull and of little consequence.
Yet it was a tremendous thrill. And
despite the howls of protest from its
participants over its lack of substance,
according to the Washington Post, there
was some news to it. Main issues quoted
by that paper were SALT and a speech
Carter was to deliver on national
defense on St. Patrick’s Day. The
president also answered questions on
the economy, the Marston affair, the
Russians, elections, and the possibility
of being a one-term president.

All answers were standard,
methodical. Compton remarked to me
that the president has a way of gliding
over reporters’ questions so that he gets
the questioner lost. It was obvious that
we as rookie reporters were unable to
contain him, but it was not from lack of
trying.

It was also apparent that most of
those in the conference imagined
themselves as the next Dan Rather
challenging Nixon. All seemed schooled,
after viewing many other press
conferences on television, in the art of
grandly waving one’s hand frantically,
yet with a calm air.

The president’s closing comments

a1

SUMMER THEATER

melodramatic spoof of an earlier play in
which a baby girl is kidnapped, raised by
Indians and then rescued by the
Mounted Police. In this version, the girl
was rescued by Indians as a child, falls
in love with a United States Forest
Ranger captain, who rescues her from
her evil Indian brother, who intends to
“have his way” with her. The play
abounds with heroism, romance and
comedy.

A more historical play is Rip Van
Winkle. Based on the Washington Irving
story, it was one of the most popular
American plays between 1850 and 1919.
Although holding basically to the story
as written by Irving, the play adds a
villain whose plans for Rip’s daughter
are foiled by Rip when he comes down
from the mountain after 20 years.

The most sophisticated play of the
three is Matchmaker, written by
Thornton Wilder, and the source of the
idea for Hello Dolly. Although they
added music, the producers of Dolly
stole the play—lock, stock and character
names—from Wilder.

Rip Van Winkle will play on June 1, 2,
3,4, 7, 8,9, 10, and 11. Little Mary

 

eo

The ladies from the Eastchester finishing school must play croquet because there’s not a man in sight.

Sunshine plays on June 14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
21, 22, 23, 24, and 25. Matchmaker will
run June 28, 29, 30, July 1, 2, 5, 6, 7, 8,
and 9. Performances are at 8 p.m. each
night. On Saturdays, there will be two
performances, a matinee at 2 p.m. and
the regular evening performance.
Tickets for a performance will cost

$3.50, or a season ticket can be
purchased for $9.00. An Opening Night
Club ticket is also available. Alumni
planning to be in the Lexington area during
the summer and interested in seeing one or
more of the plays should write the Henry
Street Playhouse and Stock Company, P.O.
Box 1087, Lexington, Va. 24450.

PRESS CONFERENCE

proved to be the most fascinating part of
the four-hour event. He initially
complimented the students as being one
of the sharpest groups he had seen and
said that he didn’t think he had been
asked such a wide range of questions in
a long time.

Compton later said that Carter said
the same thing to every group that
participated in such events. No wonder
it sounded so rehearsed and familiar.
Clearly, the group’s questions were no
better or worse than those of our
professional counterparts. In fact, they
were essentially the same.

To many, the president’s closing
comments proved too long and lofty,
either moving or hollow. But they also
seemed to show the spirit of the man,
and also belied the basis of criticism that
he is too idealistic in a coldly realistic
world.

Carter began by telling us that each
of us as journmalists had a “lot of
responsibility” upon ourselves. He
added that he hoped we would “not
relinquish” our “responsibility for
independent analysis and deep
inquisitiveness . . . and open expression

of criticism when public officials like
myself don’t reach the standards that
you set for this country.”

Yet he added: “I hope that you will
emphasize not . . . your criticism, but an
expression of your faith and belief in
the finest aspects of what America is...
and ask you to join with me ina
partnership to make our great country
even greater.”

As he spoke, Carter’s icy blue eyes lit
up. He stumbled over some words and
spoke haltingly, as if searching for just
the right combination of phrases to
prove his point.

Was it effective? There were some
moist eyes in the group after his
impassioned speech. But for the most
part, it was lost in a skeptical air. The
president could surely never have gotten
away with such lines to the professional
press corps and we, as apprentices to the
trade, have inherited the veteran’s
leather hides, I fear. The conference
itself gained few converts, and left many
cynics.

At the time of this writing, the Carter
administration is still under heavy
criticism. Most of the polish has rubbed
off of the glitter of the early days of the
presidency. And polls still show distrust

of Carter, despite his recent Panama
Canal treaties victory.

The Washington Post has pointed out
that Carter’s advisors defend their boss
by claiming that he is “a man who has
come to office at a time when the
resources of presidential leadership are
meager, when measured against the
toughness of the problems that (he) has
chosen to challenge.”

At the same time, the paper points
out that that “rationale is of little
political relevance to Carter, who
campaigned on the explicit promise that
he had the courage, the independence
and the know-how to solve these long-
accumulating problems.”

If there was one thing to be gained
from the press conference—and there
were actually many—it was that both
sides to the argument surely have some
merit. It is time for the president to
deliver the goods. But in watching him,
viewing him and questioning him, if
nothing else, I believe all the
participants in the event came away with
more respect for both the man and his
office. The responsibilities and pressure
on his shoulders are immense, and this
proved a good break from that for both
parties involved.

22

 

Sight-seeing on the pyramids in Mexico

Travelling more than 2,000 miles—
one of the longer road trips on record at
W&L—the Glee Club sang before
standing-room-only audiences in Mexico
City, Cuernavaca and Acapulco during
the break between the winter and spring
terms (April 10 to April 16).

The tour was the fourth
international trip the Glee Club has
made in the last seven years. Two of the
previous trips were to Puerto Rico and
the other was to Montego Bay, Jamaica.

As in past years, more than half the
costs of the concert tour were borne by
individual members. The remainder of
the cash came from the club’s budget,
fund-raising projects, and this year, for
the first time, from generous gifts by
Glee Club alumni.

Cheers and cries of “More, more,”
were heard after the concert in Mexico
City, which ended in the traditional
manner, with the WSL Swing. An
additional feature was hordes of teen-
aged Mexican senoritas clamoring for

 

At the party with “The Etudientes”

In the square in Cuernavaca

GLEE CLUB
OLE, OLE

W&L’s ‘Touring Singers
Woo and Win Mexico

autographs from the somewhat
perplexed, but nonetheless, delighted,
W&L singers.

After the public concert in
Cuernavaca, the Glee Club and the
“Estudientes,” a group of 30 male
performers from the University of
Morelos, sang and played for each other

 

for over an hour in the Borda Gardens
on the estate of the Emperor Maxmilian.
The two groups then began to chat in
broken English, fractured Spanish and
to toss frisbees back and forth. When the
prepared punch ran out, bottles of
Tequila were passed between members
of the two groups.

Highlights of the remainder of the
tour included a perilous bus ride over
the mountain road to Taxco, members
of the group serenading a German
fraulein in Acapulco with Schubert’s
Trinklied—sung in German, of course—
and beautiful sunrises and sunsets over
Acapulco Bay. (Some not-so-beautiful
sunburns on the beaches of Acapulco
were also in evidence.)

The trip climaxed nearly a year’s
planning by Dr. Gordon Spice, the
group’s director, and club officers.
During the 2,000-mile trip, the Glee
Club sang to more than 2,000 people
and brought back memories of southern
hospitality—Mexican-style.

 

Before the concert in Mexico City

23

 

CHAPTER NEWS

NEW ORLEANS. A reception and
dinner were held April 11 at the
Southern Yacht Club with Joseph T.
Lykes, 41, a University Trustee, and his
wife in attendance. Special guests for the
occasion were the newly accepted
applicants for admission to Washington
and Lee for September, 1978; a large
number of current New Orleans
students who were home for spring
vacation; and Coach Dennis Bussard
and the Washington and Lee tennis
team who were scheduled to play
Tulane University the next day. After
cocktails and a delicious meal, Rick
Christovich, ’68, chapter president,
introduced the guests and their parents.
Bill Washburn, alumni secretary, also
attended the meeting and showed some
color slides of the campus. Christovich
extended a special welcome to the newly
accepted students and encouraged them
to attend W&L. John Sarpy, ’72, and
Ken Carter, ’71, vice president and
secretary/treasurer, respectively,

announced chapter plans for the future |

and mentioned specifically a program of
active student recruitment.

DELMARVA. The lacrosse game at
Salisbury State on April 12 was the
impetus for another meeting of the
Washington and Lee alumni on the
Eastern Shore. The crowd enjoyed a
beautiful spring day and a convincing
win by the lacrosse Generals. After the
game, Mr. and Mrs. Charles C.
Habliston, parents of Charles Habliston
IV, a junior at W&L, hosted a reception
and buffet for the chapter. Chapter
president and Mrs. Ernest Cornbrooks,
67, assisted the Hablistons in greeting
the many enthusiastic followers of the
Generals. Special guests for the
reception were the members of the
lacrosse team and those of their parents
who attended the game. Coach and Mrs.
Jack Emmer were present, along with
the rest of the coaching staff. Everyone
was delighted with the success of the
team and with the opportunity to meet
these young men. The setting fitted the
lovely weather and the congenial mood
of the crowd.

24

 

NEW ORLEANS—Dudley D. Flanders, ’56, and
Ralph S. Taggart, ’43, enjoy WSL fellowship.

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI—Bill Washburn, ’40, presents chapter charter to Joe Wise, ’°74L. At right ws

Coach Dennis Bussard.

CENTRAL MISSISSIPPI. The River
Hills Tennis Club in Jackson, Miss., was
the setting for the inauguration of the
Central Mississippi alumni chapter. A
reception and dinner were held on April
13 with a representative group of
alumni attending. The chapter’s
boundaries encompass practically all of
the state of Mississippi, with the
exception of the extreme northern and
southern counties. At the meeting was
Bill Washburn, ’40, who presented a
certificate signifying the chapter’s entry
into the national association to Joseph P.
Wise, ’74, who was installed as the

 

   

¢

DELMARVA—Bob Taylor, ’70L and Hannes Van

Wagenberg, 74, are probably discussing lacrosse.

chapter’s first president. Also at the
meeting were tennis coach Dennis
Bussard and members of the tennis
team, who had won a match against
Millsaps College earlier that day.
Washburn gave a brief report on
“Washington and Lee Today,” which
was supplemented with color slides, and
extended his personal welcome to the
new chapter.

W&L CLUB OF DELAWARE. The
reorganizational meeting of the
Wilmington area alumni turned into a
large postgame victory celebration

 

of the Delaware chapter.

41L. At far right is Marquis M. Smith Jr. ’57.

following the lacrosse Generals’ win over
the Fighting Blue Hens of Delaware on
April 15. Maynard Turk, ’52L, Robert
Fulwiler Jr., 25, and Lat Snowdon, ’61,
arranged for the cocktail party in
Newark. The location, close to the
lacrosse field, drew an unexpectedly
large crowd of alumni from Wilmington
and a host of Baltimore parents and
alumni. Everyone was grateful for the
warm, convivial gathering after braving
the cold wind to cheer the Generals to
their seventh consecutive victory. Ben
Sherman, ’75, was named the chapter’s
new president, and was charged with

PITTSBURGH—Rector E. Marshall Nuckols Jr., ’33,’33L, talks with Mr. and Mrs. John E. Perry, ’38,

DELAWARE—Maynard Turk, ’52L, and Robert Fulwiler, ’25, appear to be pleased by the reorganization

 

sustaining active interest in the
University by all the W&L alumni in
Delaware. Athletic Director Bill
McHenry and Buddy Atkins, assistant
alumni secretary, were delighted to be
guests at the enthusiastic gathering.

PITTSBURGH. The exquisite Longue
Vue Club was the scene for the chapter’s
meeting on April 15. A reception and
brunch were held in honor of the six
area students who were accepted for
admission to W&L in September. Special
guests for the occasion included E.
Marshall Nuckols Jr., ’33, ’35L, Rector

of the University’s Board of Trustees,
and William M. Schildt, ’64, ’68L,
assistant dean of the law school. Richard
M. Johnston, ’56, acting president of the
chapter, presided at the brunch and
introduced the guests and the newly
accepted students and their parents.
Nuckols, speaking for the Board,
expressed a warm welcome to the
alumni group and underscored the
importance of their interest and support
to the University. Introduced by Bill
Washburn, ’40, Dean Schildt gave a
short talk describing some of the
changes at W&L between his departure
and his return this year, and some of the
things which have remained the same.
Also representing the University was E.
Stewart Epley, ’49, a staff associate of
the Board of Trustees. Color slides of
the campus were shown by Washburn.

WASHINGTON. Chapter president
Jay Meriwether, ’70, hosted a reception
for parents and students from the
Washington area who were accepted at
W&L for the class of 1982. A group of
50 students and parents gathered at the
University Club on April 18 for an
Opportunity to meet each other and to
discuss W&L informally with area
alumni. Mrs. Meriwether, Mr. and Mrs.
Jeff Twardy, 67, ’73L, and Tom
Howard, ’68, were on hand to greet the
guests. Gary Fallon, the new football
coach, and Buddy Atkins, assistant
alumni secretary, were also present to
help answer questions. The group of
young men enrolling at W&L from the
area are a truly outstanding group who
were very impressive in appearance and
in their interest in the University.

PHILADELPHIA. A large group of
alumni joined for fellowship and lunch
at the Union League on April 18 to hear
Dr. Charles Turner, professor of history
at W&L, speak on things that have and
have not changed at W&L over the past
several years. James Farrar, newly
appointed director of the alumni
program for student recruitment, was
also on hand. Later the same evening,
Farrar held a reception for the 22 area

25

CHAPTER NEWS

students who were accepted for
admission to W&L at the home of Wick
Hollingshead, ’61. Outgoing president
John Kelly, ’66, ’69L, presided over the
luncheon meeting and short business
session which saw the election of
Edward W. Coslett III, ’70, as the new
president. Thanks were extended to
Edwin J. Foltz, ’40L, president of the
alumni association, for his support of
the chapter and to Bruce C. Lee, ’71,
who made the arrangements for the
luncheon. W. C. Washburn also
attended the meeting.

BLUE RIDGE. One of the newest
chapters in the Washington and Lee
alumni organization held its first official
meeting on April 22 in Charlottesville,
immediately after the W&L-Virginia
lacrosse game. Although the loss to the
Wahoos put a slight damper on spirits,
the outdoor reception took advantage of
an otherwise beautiful spring afternoon
to start the new chapter off in the right
direction. Buddy Atkins presented the
charter certificate to new chapter
president Dan Winter, 69. Waugh
Crigler, ’70, was elected vice president
and John Little, ’73, secretary-treasurer.
A large board of directors was named to
help provide long-range leadership for
the chapter. Board members are George
Craddock Jr., 64, Tim Echols, ’41, Hal
Keller, 43, Fran Lawrence, 71, ’75L,
Tom Province, ’71L, Rick Richmond,
‘66, Clay Thompson, ’50, Mackey
Tilman, ’63, Darracott Vaughan, ’61,
and Rob Vaughan, 66. Very welcome
guests at the meeting were Dr. Edgar
Shannon, a University Trustee, and his
wife.

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA. De-
spite a tremendous spring rainstorm, the
W&L alumni in eastern North Carolina
held a very successful inaugural meeting
at the Velvet Cloak Inn in Raleigh on
April 25. After cocktails and a pleasant
social hour beside the indoor pool, the
chapter held a dinner meeting. The
Rev. Bryant Kendrick Jr., 67, gave the
benediction. Following dinner, Greg
Crampton, ’69, gave the report of the

26

and Alumni President Edwin Foltz, ’40L.

PHILADELPHIA—Triustee I.M. Scott, ’37L, Chapter President Ned Coslett, ’70, Dr. Charles Turner,

EASTERN NORTH CAROLINA—New chapter officers are Dr. Mike Miles, ’68, vice president; Ted

 

¥

“

Vaden, ’69, president; and Walter Lockhart, 69, secretary-treasurer.

nominating committee and proposed the
following slate of officers: president,
Ted Vaden, ’69; vice president, Mike
Miles, ’68; and treasurer, Walter
Lockhart, 69. Elected by acclamation,
Ted Vaden presided over the remainder
of the meeting, during which Buddy
Atkins presented the chapter’s charter;
Lewis John, dean of students and acting
director of admissions, spoke on the
academic goals of W&L; and a spirited
question and answer period took place.
A sidelight to the meeting was the
discovery by 1950 classmates Chris
Moore of Raleigh and Jim Hedrick of

Durham that they had lived in close
proximity for the last several years and
hadn’t known it. Special recognition
went to Dr. and Mrs. Patrick Mullins Jr.,
°39, who drove three hours from
Morehead City for the meeting.
Courtney Mauzy Jr., 61, a member of
the Alumni Board of Directors, and
Mrs. Mauzy; staff development associate
John Hollister, 58; Mrs. John and Mrs.
Atkins were other welcome guests of the
chapter. The following day, the lacrosse
Generals treated local alumni to a
thrilling overtime victory against the
N.C. State Wolfpack lacrosse team.

CLASS NOTES

 

}

Ah aed iecee Lh a= bh end Lf
| rn * Fe 4 ry x
2 bec

, aed

 

 

 

 

 

Why not a WSL rocker too?

The

Washington and Lee
Chair

With Crest in Five Colors

The chair is made of birch and
rock maple, hand-rubbed in
black lacquer with gold trim. It is
an attractive and sturdy piece of
furniture for home or office. It
is a welcome gift for all occa-
sions—Christmas, birthdays, an-
niversaries, or weddings. All
profit from sales of the chair
goes to the scholarship fund in
memory of John Graham, ’14.

ARM CHAIR
Black lacquer with cherry arms

$80.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

BOSTON ROCKER
All black lacquer

$65.00 f.0.b. Lexington, Va.

Mail your order to:

Washington and Lee

Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Shipment from available stock will
be made upon receipt of your check.
Freight “home delivery” charges
can often be avoided by having the
shipment made to an office or busi-
ness address. Please include your
name, address, and telephone
number.

 

 

1921

JAMEs L. SHAVER of Wynne, Ark., has been
practicing law for 56 years. Shaver served six
years in the Arkansas House of Representatives,
eight years in the Arkansas Senate, and four
years as lieutenant governor of Arkansas.

1925

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON, an attorney in Merid-
ian, Miss., has been appointed to the American
Bar Association’s Commission on the National
Institute of Justice. Witherspoon was also
honored recently by the Lauderdale (Miss.)
County Bar Association upon his 50th year of
law practice and for “having served his clients
and fellow citizens faithfully and devotedly.”
Witherspoon is a charter member of Scribes,
the organization of legal writers.

The Rev. HERMAN J. WOMELDORF was retired in
1972 by his presbytery. He is now at the Edisto
Island Presbyterian Church, originally built in
1830. The manse was built in 1834. Both of
these structures are being restored and are now
listed in the National Historic Record.

oe.

GIBSON B. WITHERSPOON (See 1925.)

1930

After 33 years of service, MERLE SUTER has re-
tired from General Electric Co. He does con-
siderable traveling and some part-time work for
the government.

Douctas G. THomas keeps busy as owner of the
Bryarly Manor Orchards in Martinsburg, W.
Va. The orchards produce apples and peaches.

Harry E. TRAIL, a retired Army colonel, is now
also retired from the United Services Life In-
surance Co.

CHESTER C. Wine has retired as vice president
of Central Power & Light Co. in South Texas.
He is a member of the Texas Industrial Com-
mission and was chairman of the commission
for six years. During the latter part of World
War II, he was chief of the U.S. Naval Mission to
Venezuela.

1932

Judge Cuar.es E. Lonc Jr. retired June 30,
1977, as district judge after 24 years of continu-
ous service to the bar. He lives in Dallas and
enjoys traveling.

JACK J. STARK was honored as the West Virginia
Doctor of the Year recently in ceremonies at the
annual meeting of the West Virginia Academy
of Family Physicians. In addition to his practice,
Stark is a member of the staff as physician and

27

CLASS NOTES

surgeon at Camden-Clark Memorial Hospital, a
member of its board of trustees and formerly its
chief of staff. He is currently a national repre-
sentative of the Boy Scouts of America and
chairman of the East Central Region. He has
many Civic interests, including being a member
of the State Licensing Board and a past presi-
dent of the community college governing board.

1938

WILLIAM H. Byrn, formerly a newspaper man
with the Baltimore Sun and also a retired com-
mander of the U.S. Navy, has now retired as the
editor of publications for Newport News Ship-
building. He lives in Cobbs Creek, Va., and is a
delegate to the state Republican convention.

PauL M. MILLER, after seven months as consul
in La Paz, Bolivia, is now with the American
Embassy in Mexico City.

DonaLp D. VANDLING is vice president and
general manager of Seneca Tire & Rubber
Corp. of Zelienople, Pa. He and his wife have
three sons.

1940

WILBurR S. (BILL) METCALF JR. has been practic-
ing law in Harrisburg, Pa., since November

1977.

194]

C. HARVEY Conover has received his juris doc-
tor degree from Rutgers Law School. For the
past 21 years he has been chief probation officer
in Ocean County, N. J. He is a consultant to the
criminal justice programs in several colleges, an
advisor to the Middle Atlantic States Conference
on Correction, and chairman of the National
Forum of Volunteers on Criminal Justice. He
and his wife have a daughter.

1944

Dr. Lioyp H. SMITH JR., professor and chairman
of the Department of Medicine at the University
of California, San Francisco, was named presi-
dent of the Association of Professors of Medicine
at the group’s annual meeting in San Francisco
on April 28, 1978. The association is concerned
with the promotion of teaching research and
the practice of internal medicine. It has served
as the prototype for many organizations ad-
vancing the interests of clinical and basic science
specialities in medical schools. Smith’s experi-
ence aS an executive on the boards of societies,
educational organizations, and journals is ex-
tensive. He is currently a member of the Board
of Overseers of Harvard University and of the
Medical Advisory Board of the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute. He is associate editor of the
Western Journal of Medicine and is a member of
the editorial boards of the American Journal of
Medicine and Excerpta Medicine.

28

1946

The Rev. RoBERT S. RICHARDSON is presently
connected with the Mo-Ranch Presbytrian As-
sembly in Hunt, Texas. The facility is a resort
and conference center for Presbyterians and
other denominational groups.

1948

WILBUR (BILL) METCALF (See 1940.)

1949
B. C. ALLEN JR. of Raleigh, N. C., has retired
after 27 years in the trust field with North Caro-
lina National Bank. He is now engaged in the
management of personal investments and is a
partner with his wife in an antique business
under the trade name of “The Flag & Crown”.

RICHARD S. COo_ey is chairman of the mathe-
matics department at Buckley School in New
York City. He and his wife have three children,
and the family lives in Peapack, N. J.

Harry THorpP MINISTER JR. has been elected
chairman of the board of the McElroy-Minister
Co. of Columbus, Ohio, one of the largest inde-
pendently owned insurance agencies in central

Ohio.

Horace L. Situ III owns and operates Travel
Advisors, Inc., a travel agency in Richmond,
Va.

ALFRED K. WALTER is senior vice president in
charge of the public relations division of Beau-
mont, Heller & Sperling, Inc., a major advertis-
ing agency in Reading, Pa. He and his wife,
Kitty, have three daughters in college.

1950

JAMES Q. AGNEw is president of Delta Leasing
Co. in Richmond, Va. He has been elected to a
three-year term on the board of directors of
Blue Cross of Virginia.

RICHARD E. HopGEs will be the chairman of the
board of Liller Neal Weltin, Inc., a new Atlanta
advertising agency. Hodges is a member of the
national board of governors of the Public
Broadcasting Service.

WILLIAM B. McCauSLaAND owns and operates
the historic Wedgewood Inn in Morristown,
N. J. Parts of the 600-seat inn date back to 1749.
He and his wife have four sons and a grandson.

1952

Capt. ROBERT F. CONNALLY III is commanding
officer of the Navy recruiting district in Hous-
ton, Texas. The district received the Fleet Re-
serve Association’s award as the best enlisted
recruiting district in the nation for 1977.

JosEPH MENDELSOHN III has become president

of Kenner Products Co. of Cincinnati and a vice
president of the parent General Mills Corp.
Mendelsohn joined the sales division of Kenner
—the craft, game and toy division of General
Mills—in 1956. The company markets such toys
as the “Six Million Dollar Man,” the “Bionic
Woman,” and all of the “Star Wars” toys. It is
the second largest toy manufacturer in the
United States.

THOMAS R. SHEPHERD has been appointed vice
president and general sales manager of GTE
Consumer Electronics Corp.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. OVERTON P. POLLARD, a
son, Andrew Madison, on Feb. 22, 1978. Pollard
is an attorney in Richmond, Va.

After practicing law in Passaic County, N. J., for
many years, NICHOLAS G. MANDAK was appoint-
ed to the Passaic County District Court for a
five-year term by Gov. Byrne. Mandak and his
wife have two sons.

1956

New Orleans attorney DUDLEY D. FLANDERS was
presented the highest honor of the Mental
Health Association in Louisiana—an award for
outstanding service—at the association’s annual
meeting in Shreveport. A former president of
the association, Flanders has been involved in
reform of state mental health laws since 1972.

SANFORD R. (SANDY) MASLANSKyY and his wife,
Barbara, were featured in an article in the New
Orleans Times-Picayune of April 3 in connection
with their highly successful clothing stores. The
fashion centers are known as the Clothes Horse.
The Maslanskys now have five of these stores in
the greater New Orleans area.

1957

WILLIAM A. G. (BILL) BOYLE, who lives in
Hamilton, Bermuda, has been re-elected to the
position of common counselor to the Corpora-
tion of Hamilton and is responsible for man-
aging the city. He has been placed on several
government boards including the planning
board responsible for zoning, development, and
architecture for Bermuda. He is also on the
library board which is responsible for all public
and school libraries.

Cmdr. JAMES E. Law has just completed a tour
of duty as commanding officer of a destroyer in
the Mediterranean and is now stationed at the
Pentagon. He lives in Alexandria, Va.

CHARLES L. SHERMAN IV has retired from active
duty with the U.S. Army and is now a special
representative with Business Men’s Assurance
of America. He lives in Tucson, Ariz., with wife,
Marilyn, and two children.

At the wedding of John Marcoux, ’66, were ( left to

right) Mr. and Mrs. Paul H. Dunbar, ’65,’68L, aati

Paul Murphy, ’66, Mrs. Marcoux and the groom,
and Mr. and Mrs. Walter Bennett, ’65.

Harry T. TUuLy JR. is practicing anesthesiology
in San Leandro, Calif. He enjoys scuba diving.

OVERTON P. POLLARD (See 1954.)

1958

CHARLES P. Corn is senior editor of Macmillan
Publishers Co. Before joining Macmillan in
March 1978, he was with Houghton Mifflin Co.
and Little, Brown and Co.

DoOMINICK FLora, an All-American basketball
player at Washington and Lee, was recently fea-
tured in a sports article by Abe Goldblatt in the
Norfolk Virginian-Pilot. Flora is marketing di-
rector for the New York Cosmos, a member of
the North American Soccer League. Before
joining the Cosmos, Flora ran the midwest office
for Fairchild Publications. He is enthusiastically
involved in the professional soccer league.

S. Scott WHIPPLE is a consultant to Xerox Corp.
Learning Systems and has developed an exten-
sive recruiter training program for the U. S.
Marine Corps.

1959 !
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. S. MELVILLE McG@arTHY,
a son, lan Francis, on Dec. 31, 1977. McCarthy
has been appointed the director of consulting
engineering of the Wayne H. Colony Co., Inc.,
of Tallahassee, Fla.

BERTRAND R. HuUDNALL II will become head-
master of North Cross School in Roanoke, Va.,
effective July 1978.

Dr. JOHN C. Kor7z is on the chemistry faculty at
the State University of New York at Oneonta.
He has had a senior-graduate level text in inor-
ganic chemistry published by W. B. Saunders of
Philadelphia. Kotz has been appointed a Ful-
bright Senior Lecturer and Research Fellow at
the University of Lisbon, Portugal, for the spring
of 1979. He and his wife, Katie, have two sons.

1960

CHARLES S. CHAMBERLIN has resumed work with
Aetna Life Insurance Co. in Hartford, Conn.,
as regional manager in the real estate investment
department after having been in Boston the
past five years. He and his wife have two daugh-
ters.

OLIVER T. Cook, an attorney in Peabody, Mass.,
has been elected to the executive committee of
the Massachusetts Golf Association. He is also a
director of the Francis Ouimet Caddie Scholar-
ship Fund and past general chairman of the
USGA Seniors’ Championships held at his home
course, Salem Country Club, in September 1977.
He is an active golfer and former club champion
himself. He and his wife, a daughter and a son
live in Beverly Farms.

ALLEN MEAD FERGUSON is senior vice president
of Craigie, Inc., of Richmond. Va., an invest-
ment banking firm. He and his wife, Mary, have
three sons.

JOHN M. Kirk has opened a new law firm, Meyer
and Kirk, in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. Kirk and
his wife, Carol, have a son and daughter.

1961

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Georce E. Gans III, a
son, Alexander Bleakley, on Jan. 11, 1978. The
family lives in Louisville, Ky.

1962

JOHN M. Kirk (See 1960.)

Rurus C. YOUNG JR. expects to complete work
for his master of laws degree at George Wash-
ington School of Law this summer.

1963

V. LANCE TARRANCE JR. entered a new venture
by forming his own political attitude research
company, known as V. Lance Terrance and
Associates, in Houston, Texas. The firm
specializes in attitude planning studies for U.S.
Senate and Congressional campaigns.

ROBERT M. VANRENSSELAER became a partner
in the law firm of Carter, Carter and Rupp in
Plainfield, N. J., and a resident partner at their

Bernardsville office in April 1977. He lives in

Mendham.

1964

WILLIAM C. HuMPHREYS JR., who is associated
with the Atlanta law firm of Alston, Miller and
Gaines, has recently been appointed an adjunct
professor in the Emory University School of
Law.

1965
MARRIAGE: JacQueELiIn Harrison DEJar-
NETTE and Mrs. Shea Rogers on March 21, 1978,
in Richmond, Va. Tom Woodward, ’65, was
best man. DeJarnette is with Wheat & Co., a
Richmond securities and investment firm.

MARRIAGE: James S. LEGG Jr. and Barbara
Lyn Hollins on Feb. 21, 1978. The couple lives
in Greenbelt, Md., where Legg is a computer
analyst for Computer Sciences Corp. and the
Goddard Space Flight Center.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE was named chairman-elect
of the Young Lawyers Section of the Virginia
Bar Association at the annual meeting in Wil-
liamsburg in January. Byrne will become chair-
man in January 1979.

VicTor R. GALEF has joined Miles Laboratories
as a group product manager. He lives in Elkhart,
Ind.

 

1966

MARRIAGE: J. MicHAEL Marcoux and Fon-
taine Montgomery on Dec. 27, 1977, in Bir-
mingham, Ala. Paul H. Dunbar, ’65, ’68L, was
best man. Other members of the wedding in-
cluded Paul N. Murphy, ’66, and Walter H.
Bennett, 65. The couple lives in Washington,
where Marcoux is a partner in the law firm of
Bruder and Gentile and Mrs. Marcoux is em-
ployed at the National Cancer Institute.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMEs A. BOWERSOX JR.,
a daughter, Jamie, on July 19, 1977. Bowersox
has just transferred to Salisbury, Md., as man-
ager of C&P Telephone.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. CHARLES GANAHL WAL-
KER III, a son, Charles Ganahl IV, on Jan. 20,
1978. Walker is with Hewlett Packard Co.

Maorice R. FurEss joined the public affairs staff
of the American N ewspaper Publishers
Association in February 1978. He works and
lives in Reston, Va. Previously, he had been with
the Cox Newspapers group for over seven years.

Bruce W. Riper is on the board of the Associa-
tion for the Blind of Rochester, N. Y. He works
for Xerox Corp. and was recently elected to the
General Assembly of the United Presbyterian
Church. He and his family live in San Diego,
Calif.

ROBERT M. VANRENSSELAER (See 1963.)

1967

S. BRYAN BENEDICT is manager of the main
office branch of the First National Bank of At-
lanta, Ga.

After several years of teaching in prep schools
and earning a master’s degree from Wesleyan,
MICHAEL K. NATION is enrolled in medical
school at Brown University. He plans to spec-
lalize in pediatrics.

JEFFREY T’. T'warpy has opened his own private
law practice in Alexandria, Va.

1968
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. RicHarD H. NAsH Jr., a
daughter, Sarah Reynolds, on Feb. 16, 1978.
The family, which lives in Louisville, Ky., also
has a son.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. SAMUEL B. PRESTON, a
son, Francis Mason, on Nov. 14, 1977. He joins
two brothers, Brad, 2, and David, 4, at home in
Chatham, N. J.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. WILSON F. VELLINES JR.,
a daughter, Meredith Ann, on April 20, 1978,
in Lexington. She joins an older sister, Liza, at
home in Mount Solon, Va. Vellines is an attorney
in Staunton.

29

CLASS NOTES

JosEPH W. Brown is one of two Nevada lawyers
appointed to the Board of Litigation of the
Mountain States Legal Foundation, an organi-
zation of all eight Rocky Mountain states.

In February 1978, Northern Virginia Bank
elected RoBERT E. DuvALLas vice president and
senior officer in charge of the trust division.
Duvall lives in McLean, Va.

Rosert M. WEIN is chief resident in obstetrics
and gynecology at the University of Virginia
Hospital. In December 1978, he will enter pri-
vate practice in Greensboro, N. C. Wein and his
wife have four children; two sons and two
daughters.

ALFRED J. T. BYRNE (See 1965.)

1969

BIRTH: Dr. and Mrs. BRITTAIN MCJUNKIN, a
son, Ryan Philip, on Feb. 28, 1978. The McJun-
kins have another son and live in Pittsburgh, Pa.

Lykes Brothers Steamship Co., Inc., has named
Joun F. CARRERE JR. as manager of profit
planning in the finance division. Carrere joined
Lykes Brothers in 1976 after two years with an
affiliate company. He attended Harvard Busi-
ness School.

JosepH T. CHADWICK JR. has been elected assis-
tant vice president of five mutual funds spon-
sored by T. Rowe Price Associates, Inc., the
Baltimore-based investment research and
counsel firm. He is vice president of the firm
and specializes in tax-sheltered retirement
plans.

Joun F. Littarp III has opened a private law
practice in Washington and Maryland. Formerly
he served as a Ford appointee in the Justice
Department.

1970
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Craic W. BREMER, a
daughter, Tracey Rae, on Dec. 17, 1977. She
joins a brother, Ryan John, 3, at home in Har-
risburg, Pa., where Bremer is assoicated with
the law firm of Beckley and Madden.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. JAMES C. McELRoy, a
son, James Campbell Jr., on Jan. 11, 1977, in
Atlanta, Ga.

1971

MARRIAGE: CuHar.es G. Houston III and
Adele E. L. Josey on Sept. 17, 1977, in Atlanta.
W&L men present were classmates Douglas K.
Gossman, John G. Crommelin, and William P.
Canby; W. Tennent Houston, ’72; J. Bartow
Willingham Jr., ’73; and Allen S. Willingham,
’74. Houston works for Carter and Associates, a
real estate development firm in Atlanta. Mrs.

30

At the wedding of G. Brock Johnson, ’76, and Mary Haycox (front, center)
last August, in Baltimore, were: (top row, left to right) Eric D. White, "75,
Gregory B. Barker, ’74, Robert E. Ottenritter, ’77, Matthew B. LaMotte, ’74,
two unidentified groomsmen, Claude M. Bain, ’76L, Edmund T. ( Ted)
Ellett, ’77L, (middle row) Donald G. Carroll, ’76, Pearce Johnson, ’73,
Donald D. Hogle, ’75, Michael B. Hollinger, ’77, Robert W. H. Mish LIT,
°76, Michael S. Burch, ’75, Robert G. Morecock, ’75, ’78L, Duncan Winter,
°75, (bottom row) John Daniel Scott HI, ’77, William S. Gorman, 77, Paul
A. Morella, ’77, John A. Hollinger, ’78, George Huddleston III, ’76, ’79L,
Stuart Ragland, ’74 and C. Lynch Christian Jr., ’44. Also at the wedding,
but not in the picture were Clairbourne Darden, ’35, great uncle of the bride,

Houston is a personnel officer with First Na-
tional Bank.

MARRIAGE: Craic D. SULLIVAN and Nancy
Anne McKean on Oct. 10, 1977, in Upper Marl-
boro, Md. Sullivan graduated from dental
school at the University of Maryland in June
and is now a lieutenant in the Navy stationed at
Patuxent River Naval Air Test Center.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Cart Apams III, a
daughter, Mims Eshelman, on May 19, 1977.
Adams is vice president and personnel manager

of Adams Brothers Produce Co. in Birming-
ham, Ala.

JosEPH BERNSTEIN is an assistant to the Com-
mission to Revise the Annotated Code of Mary-
land and is revising one title and five subtitles of
the health article. He lives in Annapolis and skis
extensively in the winter.

WALTER G. PETTEY III is associated with the law
firm of Hughes, Luce, Hennessy, Smith and
Castle in Dallas.

J. WADE TAYLOR is working as an exploration
geologist with Sundance Oil Co. in Houston.

Joun F. Lrtiarp III (See 1969.)

1972

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. Davip L. HOLLAND, a
son, David L. Jr., on March 1, 1978, in Suffolk,
Va. He is their first child.

RosBerT P. BEAKLEY is a staff attorney with
Cape Atlantic Legal Services in Atlantic City,
N. J., and teaches a course, “Law & Banking,”
for the Atlantic Chapter of the American In-
stitute of Banking.

RoBerT G. Brooxsy, formerly with Morgan
Guaranty Bank in New York City, has joined
Wachovia Bank & Trust Co., effective February
1978. He will be with the national banking de-
partment of Wachovia. He and his wife, Kathy,
live in Winston-Salem, N. C.

Cary GRAYSON FITZHUGH is currently working
to become an airline pilot.

W. Purp MorrisseErTte III is in the third year
of residency in family practice in Newport News.
Morrissette plans to enter practice in Midlo-
thian, Va., when he completes his residency.

SAMUEL F. PAINTER has become a partner in the
law firm of Nexsen, Pruet, Jacobs and Pollard in
Columbia, S. C.

1973

WILLIAM P. BALLARD JR. is a director of the
Norfolk-Chesapeake Board of Realtors, the
Tidewater Chapter of the American Red Cross,

and Clairbourne Darden Jr., 66.

and the Norfolk Kiwanis Club. He also plays for
the Virginia Beach lacrosse club.

RosBert L. H1LLMAN has been appointed associ-
ate attorney in the Human Resources Section of
the North Carolina Department of Justice. Hill-
man and his wife, Karen, live in Raleigh.

GeorGE S. Lantzas has completed a clerkship
for the Honorable Morris Turk and is associated
with the law firm of Goodman and Bloom in
Annapolis, Md.

Jerrrey T. Twarpy (See 1967.)

WILSON F. VELLINES JR. (See 1968.)

1974

WiLuiaM D. Apams IV is working at the New-
comb Hall Bookstore of the University of Vir-
ginia.

KEvIn J. CopPpersMITH is in the fourth year of a
doctoral study program in geology at the Uni-
versity of California at Santa Cruz. His wife,
Kathy, teaches in the elementary schools in Santa
Cruz.

ERneEsT J. (Skip) LicutFuss Jr. has joined Merill,
Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith as an account
executive in their Baltimore office.

BRADFORD N. MartTIN is with the law firm of
Leatherwood, Walker, Todd & Mann in Green-
ville, S. C.

Joun J. Puiirs Jr. will graduate from the Uni-
versity of South Carolina Law School in May
and is acandidate for a seat in the state House of
Representatives in the June elections. Philips
lives in Sumter and was recently elected presi-
dent of the state Young Democrats at their
annual convention in Charleston.

Lewis PowE t III is executive editor of the
Virginia Law Review. He will graduate in May
1978 and will clerk for U. S. District Court Judge
Robert R. Merhige in Richmond.

TEMPLETON SMITH JR. is associated with the law
firm of Rose, Schmidt, Dixon, Hasley and Whyte
in Pittsburgh, where he specializes in commer-
cial real estate and litigation.

ALFRED C. THULLBERY JR. is a research aide at
the Florida Second District Court of Appeal. He
became a member of the Florida Bar in Novem-

ber 1977.

1975
BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. M. STEVEN LACROIX, a
second daughter, Carolyn Nell, on Jan. 4, 1978.
LaCroix is assistant general counsel for Snelling
and Snelling, Inc., in Sarasota, Fla.

Davin R. LEE is a credit analyst in the Commer-

 

cial Credit Department of First and Merchants
National Bank in Richmond.

WILLIAM THOMAS RyDeR has opened his own
general law practice in Jerseyville, Ill.

Davip H. SLaTer is working in New Orleans as
an exploration geologist for Mobil Oil Corp.

1976

MARRIAGE: HUNTER CHARBONNET and Meg
Kostmayer on April 15, 1978, in New Orleans.
Best man was Davis Jackson, ’76. Groomsmen
included Watson Tebo, ’74; Jay DuRivage, 76;
Sprague Eustis, ’76; and Mynders Glover, ’76.
Also in attendance was Jim Mozingo, ’75. Char-
bonnet is an associate with the real estate firm of
Latter & Blum, Inc., of New Orleans.

MARRIAGE: R. Brooke Lewis and Priscilla
Bechter on July 9, 1977. Lewis is a claims ad-
juster for Crawford & Co. in Staunton, Va. His
wife teaches biology at Riverheads High School
in Augusta County.

BIRTH: Mr. and Mrs. DONALD R. KEMPTON JR.,
a second daughter, Lindsay Loraine, on March
14, 1978. The Kemptons live in Laurelville,
Ohio.

Davip T. ANDERSON is enrolled in the master of
divinity program at Vanderbilt University in
Nashville.

L. LANG CRAIGHILL JR. is in his second year at
the Colgate Darden School of Business at the
University of Virginia.

Douctas W. Darsy isa sales representative for
Sturner and Klein, telephone communications
specialists in Rockville, Md. He is also working
on his M.B.A. at George Washington University.

DouGtas M. Faris is assistant trust officer for
business development at the C and S Bank in
Greenville, S. C.

2nd Lt. Bruce D. JACKSON is a rifle platoon
leader in the First Cavalry Division at Fort
Hood, Texas. He was on the Commandant’s
List of Graduates from the Basic School at Ft.
Benning, Ga., prior to that.

NORMAN C. KrisTorF is working in the New
York securities office of Yamaichi International,
Inc., as a broker. He is looking forward to a trip
to Japan in the near future.

KENNETH G. MACDONALD Jr. is completing his
first year at West Virginia Medical School in
Morgantown, W. Va.

ROBERT G. PuGu has been selected senior article
editor of the Stanford University Law Review for
1978-79. He is now in Redwood City, Calif.

‘THOMAS L. SANSONETTI is practicing law in Gil-
lette, Wyo., with the firm of Lubnall, Sheehan,
Stevens and Sansonetti.

ROBERT HILLMAN (See 1973.)

GerorGE S. Lantzas (See 1973.)

1977

MARRIAGE: JOHN R. Downey II and Elizabeth
Bruni on Nov. 12, 1977, in Richmond. Members
of the wedding included David C. Davis, ’77; L.
James Lawson III, ’77; Thomas H. Yancey, ’77;
and Robert E. Evans, ’74. The couple lives in
Durham, N. C.

MARRIAGE: RICHARD R. SPINK and Laura Valz
on Sept. 17, 1977, in Staunton, Va. Thomas J.
Starke IV, 76, was in the wedding party. Spink
lives in Richmond and works as a construction
accountant for Philip Morris.

WILLIAM MaRK BERTON is a deputy county at-
torney in Dodge County, Neb. He lives in Fre-
mont.

PAUL BRUCE BoRGHARDT is attending law school
at Washington University and clerking for a law
firm in Clayton, Mo.

BENJAMIN W. BROCKENBROUGH III wasa legisla-
tive assistant during the 1978 Virginia General
Assembly. He is now a management trainee for
the promotional firm of Adchron, Inc., in Rich-
mond.

MICHAEL L. FERRARA is working as a criminal
court reporter for the Daily Free Press in Kinston,
N.C.

C. DouG Las FucE is with the operation control
department of Dillon Read & Co., Inc., an in-
vestment banking firm on Wall Street.

ROBERT W. GOopLaTTE is working as district
office representative to U.S. Rep. M. Caldwell
Butler (R.-Va.) He became a member of the
Massachusetts Bar in December 1977.

JOHN JACKLEY is a special assistant for multi-
national corporations with the Council of the
Americas in Washington, D. C. He is specializing
in human rights matters, terrorism, the regula-
tion of multi-national corporations, the transfer
of technology and Latin American political,
economic and financial issues. He had been co-
ordinator of the Council’s work group on Pana-
ma until the passage of the canal treaties by the
Senate.

JAMES A. Jones IV is president of Light Indus-
tries, Ltd., of Lexington. He plans to build a

solar house during the summer.

WALKER KEITH KIRKPATRICK has been admitted

to the Kentucky State Bar and is living in Er-
langer, Ky.

CHRISTOPHER LaRSON is coaching lacrosse at the
Jemicy School in Baltimore and working as a
bartender. He plans to spend the summer tour-
ing Europe and enroll in law school in the fall.

Henry (Hank) L. Puixuipes III is employed as a
field auditor for the Commercial Finance De-
partment of Wachovia Bank & Trust Co. in
Winston-Salem, N. C.

CHARLES D. POWELL is a first-year law student at
the University of Texas.

JOHN W. RAvENHOoRST is doing archeological
work in the Washington, D.C., area for the
National Park Service.

After completing the Marine Corps basic and
communications officer schools at Quantico, 2nd
Lr. MARSHALL K. SNYDER is platoon commander
with the 7th Communications Battalion at Camp
Hansen, Okinawa.

SAMUEL E. THOMPSON is sports editor of the
McDuffie Progress of Thomson, Ga.

JAMES D. UTTERBACK is studying for the master’s
degree in industrial psychology at Virginia
Tech. His thesis deals with the assessment pro-
cess and has led to several summer work oppor-
tunities.

GREGORY S. WALDEN is enrolled in law school at
the University of San Diego.

BRADFORD N. MartTIn (See 1974.)

ALFRED C. THULLBERY JR. (See 1974.)

 

IN MEMORIAM

 

1914

Davis BROCKMAN WINFREY, who was an attorney
from 1930 until 1955 for the Department of
Justice in Washington, D. C., died April 11,
1978, in Martinsburg, W. Va., after a long ill-
ness. He had been at the Norborne Nursing
Home since September 1974.

1915

JONAH LupTon Larrick, who for many years
was YMCA secretary at the Medical College of
Virginia in Richmond, died Oct. 16, 1977. Lar-
rick joined MCV in 1923 as YMCA secretary
and served in that position for 36 years until his
retirement in 1959. In 1967 the Medical College
of Virginia dedicated the Virginia Civil War
Centennial Center as the Jonah L. Larrick Stu-

31

CLASS NOTES

dent Center. The building, which became the
property of the Medical College of Virginia at
the end of the centennial period, had been con-
verted into a student activity center. Larrick
served during World War I as a physical educa-
tion director for the Army at Fort Oglethorpe
and Fort McPherson. He went to France with
the American Expeditionary Forces. He also
served in Europe with the French Army of Oc-
cupation. He returned from France in 1923
when he joined the Medical College of Virginia.
Larrick, because of his personality and interest
in students became well known and beloved and
was often called “Father Larrick” by the stu-
dents.

1916

GEORGE WARD, former director of the Charles-
ton National Bank, died at his home in Charles-
ton, W. Wa., on March 25, 1978. Ward had also
been an officer of the Elk Horn Coal Corp. In
1945, he was president of the West Virginia
Bankers Association.

LORENTZ TRIGG WHITE, founder and chairman
of Motor Bearings & Parts Co. in Raleigh, N. C.,
died Feb. 2, 1978. White began in the automotive
wholesale parts business in 1920. He was a
former president of the Automotive Service In-
dustry Association.

1927

GEORGE ADOLPHUS CLARK JR., a Memphis in-
surance broker who was most active in Civic
affairs, died April 1978 while on a vacation
cruise near Nassau. Clark had been affiliated
with Hays-Robinson, Inc., an insurance agency.
He was also a 33rd degree Scottish Rite Mason.
He was a member and former board chairman
of the First United Methodist Church and was a
candidate for the state senate in 1950. Clark was
long active in athletic programs and was a
former director of the YMCA board as well as
former chairman of the Memphis and Shelby
County Water Safety Committee. He served with
the Army in World War II and was a member of
the American Legion. At the age of 70, Clark
became a glider enthusiast and was honored by
the Memphis Soaring Society.

1928

Dr. NELSON WRIGHT DIEBEL, a long-time
prominent physician in Grosse Pointe, Mich.,
died April 21, 1978. For many years Diebel was
chief of staff of the Bon Secours Hospital in
Grosse Pointe. He was an avid golfer.

1929

CHARLES EATON HAMILTON JR., a former direc-
tor of personnel for Freeport Sulphur Co., died
Feb. 6, 1978, in New Orleans, La. Hamilton,
who held an M.B.A. from Harvard Business
School, began work with Freeport Sulphur Co.

32

at Port Sulphur, La., and was then transferred
to New Orleans until 1938. He also saw service
in Freeport, Texas, and with the Nicaro Nickel
Co. in Jacksonville, Fla. In 1944 he rejoined
Freeport Sulphur’s New Orleans office as
superintendent of personnel. He retired from
the company in 1955.

1930

JOHN R. LITTLE JR., who worked for the First
National Bank of Louisville, Ky., until his re-
tirement a few years ago, died in Lake Worth,
Fla., Sept. 12, 1977.

1936

ROBERT GOODFELLOW GEIGER JR., a representa-
tive of the Ohio Power Co., died Feb. 1, 1978, in
Canton, Ohio. He was a veteran of World War
II with the U.S. Army and was the recipient of
several decorations including the Purple Heart.

1937

LUTHER Howarp Davis, a resident of Coving-
ton, Va., and retired vice president and trust
officer of the Covington National Bank, died on
March 25, 1978. Except for two years with
Mountain National Bank in Clifton Forge and
during World War II, when he served with the
U.S. Army, Davis worked for the Covington
bank from 1937 until his retirement in 1974.
He was a past president of the Covington
Chamber of Commerce, a past treasurer of the
Red Cross, a past member of the Covington
Retail Merchants Association, and an active
member in other civic organizations.

 

1945

JOHN B. ATKINS JR., a prominent business and
civic leader in Shreveport, La., died at his home
on April 6, 1978. Atkins was a member of the
board of directors of the Commercial National
Bank and a partner in Atco Investment Co.
Atkins also served on the board of trustees of
Centenary College and was named to Cen-
tenary’s Alumni Hall of Fame in February 1976.
He was the past president of the Shreveport
Jaycees, a past director of the Chamber of Com-
merce and a past co-chairman of the United
Fund. He also served as chairman of the board
of the World Football League’s Shreveport
Steamers in 1975.

1951

FRANK JAY Prout II, president of Sipes Chemi-
cal Coating Co., died July 23, 1977, in Madison,
Miss. Prout was also a director of Hanna
Chemical Coating Co.

1960

ROBERT LYNN WALKER, president of Approved
Floors Co., Inc., of Lutherville, Md., died April
3, 1978, in the crash of a private plane near
Nassau in the Bahamas. The company was a
family firm engaged in floor covering and con-
tract work. Walker had been associated with the
firm since 1959.

1961

WILLIAM FREDERICK WILLES died suddenly at
his home in Fort Pierce, Fla., on Feb. 6, 1978.
Since 1966 he had been a practicing attorney in
the law firm of Willes, Bittan and Griffen. Willes
was a member of St. Andrew’s Episcopal
Church, a lay reader, a member of the vestry,
secretary of the vestry, director of the acolytes
and church historian. He was a member of the
planning commission of the Episcopal Diocese
of Central Florida. Willes was the immediate ©
past president of the St. Lucie County Bar As-
sociation. He is survived by his parents.

 

FLETCHER JAMES BARNES II

Fletcher James Barnes II, a former professor of
political science at Washington and Lee, died
April 1 1 inthe Northampton-Accomack Hospi-
tal after being stricken by a heart attack at his
home in Parksley, Va. He was 72. Barnes was a
member of the W&L faculty from 1931 until
World War II, during which he was on leave of
absence. He was in the Navy during the war and
was also a retired official of the Virginia De-
partment of Conservation and Economic De-
velopment. He was a graduate of the College of
William and Mary and did postgraduate work
at Harvard. Surviving are his wife, Mrs. Dorothy
Fox Gibbons Barnes, and a son, Cmdr. F. James
Barnes III, a’59 graduate of W&L, who is sta-
tioned in Japan and is commanding officer of
the USS Kirk.

 

 

No library is complete without...

The 1975 Alumni Directory

The Indispensable Reference Book
For Every Washington and Lee Alumnus

‘The new up-to-date Washington and Lee Alumni Direc-
tory, 1749-1975, is now available at only $5.00 a copy,
including postage. The unique feature that distinguishes
this directory from past editions is that the 1975 issue
was produced by a computerized method.

sa
The directory has three sections:

Al phabetical—Every person who has attended W&L since
1749 is listed alphabetically, together with his class, his
degree, his address, and his occupation.

Class List—A full list of the members of each class, in-
cluding degree holders and non-graduates, appears in
this section.

Geographical—Alumni are identified by states and by
cities within these states as well as in foreign countries.

No Washington and Lee alumnus can afford to be with-
out this valuable reference book in his home or office.
Use the form below to order your copy. Mail to Wash-
ington and Lee Alumnt, Inc., Lexington, Va. 24450.

Please send me............... copy(ies) of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Directory at $5.00 each, including postage. Check
is enclosed.

 

Name

 

Address

 

Zip

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE
UNIVERSITY

Alumni Directory
1749-1975

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
Published by
THE WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
ALUMNI INCORPORATED

1976

 

 

ALLEN—ETHAN 31 LLB (1925-31X) WILLKIE FARR
& GALLAGHER 277 PARK AVE NEW YORK NY 10
017 LAWYER,PARTNER  WILLKIE,FARR,GAL-
LAGHER q

ALLEN—EUGENE K * 31 (1927-28)

ALLEN—FREDERICK M 43 BA (1939-43) MA GEN-
ERAL DELIVERY TAOS NM 87571

ALLEN—G WILLIAM JR 69 BA (1965-69) 30 MAN.
OR DRIVE HUDSON OH 44236 LAW STUDENT
OHIO NORTHERN

ALLEN—G ASHLEY 65 BS (1961-65) PHD 130
BURNETT DR SPARTANBURG SC 29302 DIR OF
DEV DEERING MILLIKEN RES CORP q

Sample
Alphabetical
List

Entry

 

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

Available Again

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE

(Wedgwood)

Sold only in sets of four different scenes
Price $50.00 for set of four
including shipping charges

Available in blue color only

The four scenes are:

LEE CHAPEL
WASHINGTON COLLEGE, 1857
LEE-]ACKSON HOUSE
WASHINGTON COLLEGE (contemporary)

Send order and check to

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INC.
Lexington, Virginia 24450

 

 

