E. P. DAVIS, President

Cc. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

MAIL ORDERS FOR
RECORD, W. and L. Swing by W. and L. Orchestra—50c. prepaid
SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00

Promptly Filled

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager

 

 

R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

E. C. Carrrey, President
E. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer

VeRBON E. Kemp, Editor
Dora Wrrt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

 

CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE

Viewing the Recumbent Statue—Dr. G. M. Maxwell 4 William A. Anderson, 61, Dean of Alumni... .22-23
Bounder’s Days .\s «x's s+ «5 0» saab «hee ee 5 With Ge Facies. «52 sss 050 ekoeaes ow evens 24
Drinkwater Pays Tribute to W. & L............. 6 Faculty Introductions—Dr. B. A. Wooten........ 25
The South’s Hero.........-- + eee eee ee eeeeeees 6 Bishop J. R. Winchester, ’74.........--000eee eee 26
investment Opportunities... . «+ + >.08-+%s iam ( Alumnus Receives Highest Chemistry Honor..... 27
pratory Failed with General Lee.......-+++-+++: / Judge McDermott Addresses Law Students...... 28
How College Students a | LOME. eee eee eee : Haviland Stephenson, ’84...........--+eeeeeeees 28
The \W ills of Lee and \W ashington . Seen nesses 9 Bookplates, Engineering and S hipping—tL. R.
Generals’ Relay ‘Team Defeats University of Va... 10 i 29
Bt letica 11-12-13 NR ek. deo s oie cae . A 0 3 48 9 he oe
, TL lente Set oe a, Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02.........-+0++5+5 30
Bampus News i. or as a:0% ©.» «94.0 +0 Ae 14-15 a Jape
i « a Harry St. George Tucker, ’75, Honored.......... 30
saltimore, Arkansas and Louisville Alumni Meet.. 16 ak ins reas
es Voets . i. ['ubby” McNeil, 03........ 02. ee cece eee eees 31
New York Alumni Luncheons.............---+-: 17 Ravford Alley, 10: Mil BR ys 39
Annual Meeting of Louisiana Association........ 18 a} me / ha ; Milton e Rogers, Si eh ce 2
Roanoke Alumni Banquet; Obituary..........-. 19 I. P, Guthrie, 711; Henry N. Barker, °14........ 33
Editorial Paragraphs... <.....4.ss0 eae es 20 War Letters of Kiffin Rockwell, ’13............. 34
Applied Psychology and Vocational Guidance at Early History of Washington College (continued ). 37

W. & L.—By President Smith.........<.... 21 Pi UR ee eee cheese eee eeu 40-43

,
BOLEY’S BOOK STORE
RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50
(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

Written on Viewing the Recumbent Statue of Lee

Recumbent now, as if asleep, Asleep is he, but not in death,
Lies the great Chieftain of the South; This Chief, this Idol of us all;
And as before his shrine we weep, Nor draws a son of Dixie breath
Let his great life inspire our youth Who does not hear his clarion call,
To greater deeds, and greater yet; To build a Southland greater still,
Lest we his sacrifice forget. Nor would one fail to do his will.

Lee is not dead, but only lies

Asleep, and in our memories

He lives, and dwells within our soul,

Still urging us unto the goal

He set, of GREATNESS—not of GAIN,

Nor shall we let him urge in vain.

(Dr. G. Maptson MAXWELL,

Roanoke, Virginia. )

 

 

 

y

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Vou.

————

MARCH 1926 No. 3

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

 

 

Founder's Day

MEETING OF THE W. AND L. Boarp oF TRUSTEES

The most important action of the Board of Trus-
tees at their semi-annual meeting, Tuesday, January
19th, was the election of Rev. W. Lapsley Carson,
B. A., 715, of Richmond, Virginia, to membership on
the board, filling the vacancy left by the resignation
of Judge William A. Bell of New Orleans.

The Board formally received the three thousand
volumes of books left by the late Decatur Axtell of
Richmond, vice-president of the C. & O. Railway,
as an addition to the W. & L. Library. The gift will
be known as the Decatur Axtell memorial library.
Miss Helen Rockwell, acting librarian during the
year of Miss Blanch P. McCrum’s absence was
elected associate librarian for one year for the pur-
pose of cataloging the Decatur Axtell library and the
remainder of the Library’s uncatalogued books.

Fitzgerald Flournoy, B.A., ’21, M.A., ’22, was
elected Associate Professor in the English Depart-
ment for one year, starting September 1, 1926. The
president was authorized to appoint Laird Y. Thomp-
son, B.A., ’21, an instructor in the Department of
Modern Languages, effective September 1, 1926.
Verbon E. Kemp was appointed Executive Secretary
of the University, effective February 1, 1926, and
Alumni Secretary. Dr. William M. Brown, M.A.,
‘14, Head of the Department of Education, was ap-
pointed Vocational Adviser and Psychologic exam-
iner of students.

The Executive Committee was authorized to have
plans and estimates made for heating and fire-proof-
ing the Lee Chapel. They were also authorized, if
practicable, to change the date of Commencement so
that Commencement Day will be the Tuesday near-
est the 15th day of June each year, effective not
earlier than Commencement 1927.

That faculty was authorized, in its discretion, to
increase the. time given for the Christmas vacation
up to twelve college days, or two full weeks.

Tuition fees were increased by $25.00, effective
next session.

The meeting was attended by Messrs. William A.
Anderson, ‘61, Lucian H. Cocke, ’78 (Rector),
George W. St. Clair, ’90, John S. Munce, Frank
T. Glasgow, ’74, Rev. William McC. White, ’84,
Harrington Waddell, 93, William A. McCorkle, ’79,
Hugh B. Sproul, 90, Judge Charles J. McDermott,
and James R. Caskie, ’06.

PRESIDENT HIBBEN OF PRINCETON SPEAKS

President J. G. Hibben, of Princeton University,
was the speaker at the annual founder’s day celebra-
tion, held Tuesday at 11:15 a. m. o’clock, in Dore-
mus gymnasium at Washington and Lee.

Dr. Hibben reviewed briefly the influence of
Princeton upon the early educational life of the Val-
ley of Virginia, and its close relationship with Wash-
ington and Lee. William Graham, of the Princeton
class of 1773, founded Augusta Academy at Timber
Ridge which was afterward moved to Lexington
where he became the first head of Liberty Hall
Academy. In the class with William Graham was
graduated Light Horse Harry Lee, father of the
Southern hero. Governor James McDowell, for
years a member of the board of trustees of Wash-
ington College, was a graduate of the class of 1816.

The young men of the North and South were
brought together after the war, on the Princeton
campus, and for the last sixty years the welding
forces of understanding and friendship there have
been knitting together the two sections. A common
cause in the World War has sealed the differences
into a united nation. “The names of Princeton boys,
North and South, who died in the Civil War,” he
said, “are placed together and alphabetically on the
honor roll at Nassau hall.”

Speaking of General Lee, Dr. Hibben said that to
meet a man of first rank is to get a new scale of val-
ues. lLee’s greatness grows through the perspective
of time. He lives not according to his ability to lead
armies to victory, but, as a great character. He was
a great overpowering personality which circum-
stances could not direct, divert or destroy. Speak-
ing of the forecasted decadence of America and the
world, he named the characteristics that made Lee
great as the hope of civilization today—not material
wealth and prosperity, but character.

Dr. William McC. White of the board of trustees
opened and closed the assembly with prayer. Pre-
ceding the address, President Henry Louis Smith
gave a résumé of the progress of the university dur-
ing the past twelve months. The student body sang
the “Swing” with a vehemence, “Rolling Princeton
on the Sod.”

 

Mr. T. W. Stephens, ’72, a loyal alumnus of Fort
Worth, Texas, was a recent visitor in Lexington.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DRINKWATER PAYS TRIBUTE TO W. & L.

In an article dealing with his impressions of
America, published in the magazine section of a re-
cent issue of the New York Times, John Drinkwater,
famous English playwright and poet, paid a high
tribute to Washington and Lee. The part of his
“impressions” relating to W. & L. was as follows:

“Tt is just in these last few years that the fortunes
of the South are showing definite signs of revival.
The disaster that befell them in 1865, so terribly ag-
gravated by Lincoln’s death, is at last being forgot-
ten, and the reconstruction that was so long nothing
but a mockery is becoming a reality. Robert E. Lee’s
charge that the people of the Confederate States
should remember that they were once again Ameri-
cans has at length become a practical inspiration and
the old animosity is dying.

“Even with the older people, with a few excep-
tions, Lincoln’s is now a name that may be spoken
together with Lee’s own. From no one have I heard
the secret of Ljincoln’s greatness more subtly ex-
pounded than by a very distinguished scholar in the
Washington and Lee University at Lexington, in
Virginia, who as a child, had actually ridden behind
Lee on Traveller, the horse that has become a figure
in Southern legend.

“This Lexington university is one of the loveliest
spots in the world. Here still stands the little chapel
that Lee is said to have helped to build with his own
hands when he became President of the university
after the war; a modest building of perfect archi-
tectural tact, in which is the famous recumbent figure
of Lee in marble, itself a masterpiece of realistic
sculpture. Here, too, is Lee’s office, his table strewn
with letters, his stove ready for lighting, his waste
paper basket by his chair, just as they were on the
day he died; and here in a vault are the graves of all
the Lee family, from Light-Horse Harry Lee, the
General’s father, down to the present generation.

“Tee’s own house still stands, and the stable in
which Traveller lived, and a few yards away is the
house that Lee occupied when he first went to Lex-
ington while his new home was being built. It was
in this house that Stonewall Jackson then a professor
of the Virginia Military Institute, lodged, and it was
in the drawing room that he was married.

“On the institute campus is a memorial to the
boys of the institute who were called out for service
in the South’s last extremity. ‘There were, I think,
eighteen of them, some of them not more than four-
teen years of age. As they marched out of the town
the local band played ‘Hushaby, Baby.’ And _ in
the cemetery Stonewall Jackson lies within a few
hundred yards of the commander, with whom his
relations are one of the most moving episodes in
military history.”

THE SOUTH’S HERO
(From the Roanoke World News.)

Stroll through the stately campus of Washington
and Lee University on a Wednesday or Saturday
afternoon or on a Sunday, and the chances are that
you will not go far before you will see ahead of or
approaching you on the walk, two, three or more
youths in the grey-clad uniform of the “West Point
of the South.” Watch, closely if you please, as the
V. M. I. cadets pass the historic old chapel that
houses the sacred dust of Robert FE. Lee. The talk
and laughter cease, the boyish forms straighten with
soldierly erectness and one and all salute with mili-
tary precision at the exact moment they pass in front
of the dead warrior’s tomb. :

The laughter and the careless chatter break out
again; the cadets pass on. But there’s something
about the spectacle that has stirred the blood of the
beholder and will not allow him to forget. Call it
rite or custom or what you will, it is a tribute that
the young soldiers of the Virginia Military Institute
are scrupulous to pay. Day or night it is always the
same—no V. M. I. cadet passes in front of the rest-
ing place of Robert E. Lee’s remains save at re-
spectful salute. Thus the dead chieftain’s memory
is kept alive in the hearts of generation after gener- —
ation of the South’s young men at Virginia’s great
military school.

Today the entire South stands like the V. M. I.
cadet at salute beside the bier of the renowned hero
who was great alike in the arts of war and peace.
He led the young men of the South to war; he led
them back to peace, and taught them to accept hon- -
orable defeat like real men. Great as are the lessons
to be learned from a study of the life of Lee during
the eventful four years that he captained the hosts
of the Confederacy, even greater are those to be
learned from a contemplation of the serene, dignified
figure of the college president yonder in the quiet
town of Lexington, showing his people and the world —
that defeat does not matter so much as the way in
which it is accepted.

A great’man in his lifetime, Robert E. Lee looms
greater still on the pages of history. The South re-
veres his memory, the world honors his name. And
that is why the young cadets of the V., M. I. cease
their conversation and silently salute as they pass,
to and fro, the chapel which is to them and to Vir-
ginia a shrine around which twine the heartstrings of
the Southern people.

 

J. C. Carpenter, Jr., 04, was at the age of twenty-
seven elected President of the First National Bank in
Clifton Forge, Virginia, which office he has held up —
to the present time.

 

 

INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES

1. Endow the Y. M. C. A. Secretaryship of the
University —The social and religious worker who
occupies this position of exceptional influence mingles
day by day with hundreds of picked representatives
of “leading families” from every section. He is
training Christian leaders for scores of future Ameri-
can enterprises at home and abroad.

A wise-hearted Christian financier who, by a pres-
ent investment or by a codicil in his will, endows
this Christian “chair” as a monument to himself or
to some loved one, will establish a fruitful memorial ;

costing from $75,000 to $100,000.

2. Endow the Y. M. C. A. Reading Room, letting
this center of social Christian fellowship bear the
name and propagate the influence of the donor, or of
some relative whose name he wishes to perpetuate.

An investment or bequest of ten thousand dollars
would erect this dividend-producing memorial.

3. Endow a Regular Chair of Bible and Christian
Ethics —Among the University’s departments of in-
struction, unifying in one such department the va-
rious courses in Biblical instruction, moral philos-
ophy, and social ethics, under the leadership of a
magnetic and highly trained Christian professor.
Who will invest $100,000 in such a worthy and pro-

ductive memorial ?

4. A special Residence near the campus for the
Y. M. C. A. Secretary, and another equally well-
placed for the Professor of Biblical Studies, furnish
two most attractive opportunities for memorial in-
vestments, each residence to bear the memorial name
with a proper memorial tablet. A desirable lot and
seven-room residence would cost about $15,000. Five
thousand more would endow its upkeep and insur-
ance.

5. If any wealthy Christian should desire to es-
tablish a most stately and impressive personal or
family memorial, let him erect a Student’s Union,
with all possible facilities for social and religious
gatherings and activities. Such an elaborate struc-
ture, swarming with happy and grateful students and
teachers every day, continually entertaining visiting
alumni and acting as a busy center for all organized
Campus activities, would create a new social and re-
ligious campus life at the University. A magnifi-
cent lot, 180 feet square, shaded with handsome
trees, located at the main campus entrance, has re-
cently been purchased by the Board and is held for
this sorely needed investment.

If such a Christian memorial interests you, write

the President of the University for more detailed
information.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

If any one, especially past middle age, would like
to erect one of these, or any other memorial, but
would wish to retain, while living, a regular income
from fhe property donated, such a tax-free annuity
can easily be provided by the University.

ORATORY FAILED WITH GENERAL LEE

Oratory is a splendid asset, but it didn’t win a
Christmas vacation for students under General Rob-
ert E. Lee fifty-nine years ago.

In asking the beloved Confederate chieftain for
Christmas holiday in 1866, 190 young men bolstered
their formal resolution with this addenda:

“We would put in the plea that the speakers of the
societies chosen to appear at the anniversaries. need
the week for the preparation of their speeches.”

The request never reached General Lee, the fac-
ulty of then Washington College rejecting the peti-
tion, according to General Jo Lane Stern, who was
one of the petitioners.

In searching among old papers, General Stern
found the historic document. Asked how he came
into possession of it, General Stern said: “The pe-
tition was nailed on the college bulletin board. When
I learned that our request for the holidays had been
denied, I removed the paper from the board. AI-
though I prize it highly as an incident of my student
days under the presidency of General Lee, it is my
intention to turn the paper over to the authorities of
Washington and Lee University, to become a_ part
of the records of the university.”

The main body of the petition read: ‘Resolutions
passed by the students of Washington College, Oc-
tober 15, 1866:

“Whereas, during the present session the regular
exercises of the college are carried on every Satur-
day and thereby we are deprived of the weekly lei-
sure usually granted students, and,

“Whereas, we believe that a week of recreation
will have a beneficial effect upon us, and that nothing
will be lost by omitting the recitations for one week,
and whereas it is customary for institutions to sus-
pend for regular holidays, therefore,

“Resolved, first, that we, the undersigned students
of Washington College, do most respectfully request
the president and faculty to suspend the regular ex-
ercises of the college during the ensuing holidays,
and,

“Resolved, second, that should the president and
faculty see fit to grant this, our request, we will be
guilty of no impropriety during said holidays, and
at their expiration we will return with alacrity and
renewed diligence to our accustomed duties.”

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

How College Students Went Home When General R. E. Lee Was
- President

How college students went home for Christmas
when General R. E. Lee was president of Washing-
ton College is told in an interview in the current
number of the Chesapeake & Ohio Magazine by
James Poyntz Nelson, 69, of Richmond, special en-
gineer of the Chesapeake & Ohio Railroad Company.
Mr. Nelson, who entered college from Hanover

County, was a student at Washington College under.

General Robert E. Lee. He studied engineering un-
der Colonel William Allan and was graduated with
high honors, in 1869. At the close of the session
that year he received the degree of both C. E. and
M. E. and was awarded the Robinson prize medal.

He is special engineer, valuation, and president of
the Chesapeake and Ohio Veteran Employees’ asso-
ciation, having entered the service of the company
in 1869. Interrupted while at work in his office at
Richmond, Mr. Nelson commented in an interesting
way on the early days of railroading.

Pointing to a framed piece of printed matter which
hung on the wall, he said: “That is an advertise-
ment, dated April 16, 1838, issued by the Richmond,
Fredericksburg and Potomac railroad, telling of an
unrivalled line to Charlottesville, Staunton and the

Virginia Springs, also to Guyandotte, Lynchburg
and the Southwest.
“At that time,” Mr. Nelson continued, “the R. F.

& P. railroad operated, under a lease, the new Louisa
railroad, then constructed between Hanover Junction,
now Doswell, and Frederick’s Hall, a distance of
twenty-three miles. That advertisement describes
how passengers could leave both Richmond and Fred-

ericksburg at 5:00 a. m., arrive at Frederick’s
at 10:00 a. m.,
forty-four miles, by stage coach, accomplishing the
whole journey by or before dark.

“From Charlottesville on west, travel was by lines
of stage coaches through the country, and across the
Blue Ridge and Alleghany mountains to the Town

of Guyandotte, on the Ohio River.

“When I was a student at Washington College, 3

now Washington and Lee University, our route was
by the Chesapeake and Ohio railway, either to

Staunton and thence thirty-six miles by stage to —
Lexington, or to Goshen and then twenty miles by _
In winter, on our return home at Christmas,
frequently, heavy going

stage.
the going by stage meant,
over roads almost impassable, with the stage some-

times stalled or even upset by deep mud-holes, re-

quiring us to get ont in the mud and, with fence
get the stage out of trouble.
New friendships

rails,

were compensations. were made,

as we bumped along in a crowded coach and stopped —

for meals, whose welcomed relish
Such abundance, such appe-

in some tavern
lingers in my mind.
tites !

between Richmond, Lynchburg and Lexington.
“Those pioneer days in travel live in my mind.
Are we any happier, any better in all that makes for
real lofty happiness than we were then? In any
event,
faster.”

 

 

Alumni Directory Ready for Delivery April | 5th

After the succession of unavoidable «delays, the
Alumni Directory and Service Record will be ready for
delivery by April 15th. The printing work has been
completed, the work of stitching, indexing and binding
only remains.

Although the Directory is practically one year late,
it should prove well worth the delay. It is the only
volume of its kind ever published at Washington and
Lee and should prove a gold mine to Alumni wishing to
locate their former class-mates.

In addition, numerous other features are included in
the volume showing the monogram wearers since 1869,
scholarship winners, members of honorary societies and

listing the positions formerly held by Alumni on the
Ring Tum Phi, the Southern Collegian and Y. M. C. A,
boards.

book,

The Directory will be delivered to the many Alumni
who have already subscribed for their copy at the previ-
ously quoted price of $3.50. Due to the increase of

cost of production the remaining volumes will have to

a

be sold at $4.00 each, which is still slightly under the
total cost of its compilation per volume.

corporated and sent to the Alumni Secretary.

youre)

Checks or —
money orders should be made payable to Alumni, In- —

Hall 4
and then go on to Sc 4 ‘i

a
=
‘>

“6

4 7 4

 

wa

 

And yet there —

“Another route to Lexington was by the James
River and Kanawha canal, by which travelers went

our travel is safer and more luxurious and

The contents page, which will be sent to every |
Alumnus, will more definitely show the scope of the

%
7

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Wills of Lee and Washington

In a paper, recently read before the Lexington
Rotary Club by Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., °19, the
last will of General Robert E. Lee, dated in 1846.
from the books of the Rockbridge County Clerk’s
office was given. It was admitted to record Novem-
ber 7, 1870. Made twenty-five years before his
death while he was in the United States Army, it
was never changed. It was followed by his own
valuation of his estate, including $38,750 worth of
stocks and bonds and several tracts of land, not val-
ued. In the list is the clause in which he freed his
slaves, in these words: ‘Nancy, and her children,
at the White House, New Kent, all of whom I wish
liberated, so soon as it can be done to their advan-
tage and that of others.”

His will reads as follows: “I, Robert E. Lee, of
the U. S. Army, do make, ordain and declare this
instrument to be my last will and testament, revok-
ing all others.

“1. All my debts, whatever they may be and of
which there are but few, are to be punctually and
speedily paid.

“2. To my dearly beloved wife, Mary Custis Lee,
I give and bequeath the use, profit and benefit of my
whole estate, real and personal, for the term of her
natural life, in full confidence that she will use it to
the best advantage in the education and care of my
children.

“3. Upon the decease of my wife it is my will
and desire that my estate be divided among my chil-
dren in such proportions to each as their situations
and necessities in life may require; and as may be
designated by her; and I particularly request that
my second daughter, Anne Carter, who from an ac-
cident she has received in one of her eyes, may be
more in want than the rest, may if necessary be par-
ticularly provided for.

“Lastly, I constitute and appoint my dearly _be-
loved wife, Mary Custis Lee, and my eldest son,
George Washington Custis Lee (when he shall have
arrived at the age of twenty-one years) executrix
and executor of this my last will and testament, in
the construction of which I hope and trust no dis-
pute will arise.

“In witness of which I have set my hand and seal
this thirty-first day of August in the year one thou-
sand eight hundred and forty-six.

(Seal ) R. E. Lee.”
A pamphlet procured by Colonel Clarence Hod-

son of New York City and sent to the University

last month, containing a report of a meeting to or-

ganize a movement for securing a centennial En-
dowment Fund for Washington and Lee University,
held at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, October 10th,
1871, included the following excerpt from the last
will of George Washington:

“TTEM—Whereas, by a law of the Commonwealth
of Virginia, enacted in the year 1785, the Legisla-
ture thereof was pleased (as an evidence of its ap-
probation of the services I had rendered the public
during the Revolution—and partly, I believe, in con-
sideration of my having suggested the vast advan-
tages which the community would derive from the
extension of its Inland navigation. under Legislative
patronage) to present me with one hundred shares,
of one hundred dollars each, in the incorporated
company established for the purpose of extending
the navigation of James River from tide water to the
mountains; and also with fifty shares of one hun-
dred pounds sterling each in the corporation of an-
other company likewise established for the similar
purpose of opening the navigation of the River Po-
tomac from tide water to Fort Cumberland; the ac-
ceptance of which, although the offer was _ highly
honorable and grateful to my feelings, was refused,
as inconsistent with a principle which I had adopted,
and had never departed from, namely not to receive
pecuniary compensation for any services I could
render my country in its arduous struggle with Great
Britain for its Rights; and because I had evaded
similar propositions, from other States in the Union
—adding to this refusal however an intimation, that,
if it should be the pleasure of the Legislature to per-
mit me to appropriate the said shares to public uses,
I would receive them on those terms with due sensi-
bility—and this it having consented to in flattering
terms, as will appear by a subsequent law and sun-
dry resolutions, in the most ample and_ honorable
manner, I proceed after this recital for the more
correct understanding of the case to declare—

“That as it has always been a source of serious re-
gret with me to see the youth of these United States
sent to foreign countries for the purpose of educa-
tion, often before their minds were formed or they
had imbibed any adequate ideas of the happiness of
their own, contracting too frequently not only habits
of dissipation and extravagance, but principles un-
friendly to Republican Government and to the true
and genuine liberties of mankind, which thereafter
are rarely overcome.— For these reasons it has been
my ardent wish to see a plan devised on a_ liberal
scale which would have a tendency to spread syste-
matic ideas through all parts of this rising Empire,
thereby to do away with local attachments and State
prejudices as far as the nature of things would, or

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

indeed ought to admit, from our national councils—
Looking anxiously forward to the accomplishment
of so desirable an object as this is, (in my estimation )
my mind has not been able to contemplate any plan
more likely to effect the measure than the establish-
ment of a University in a central part of the United
States to which the youth of fortune and talents
from all parts thereof might be sent for the comple-
tion of their education in all the branches of polite
literature in arts and sciences—in acquiring knowl-
edge in the principles of Politics and good Govern-
ment—and (as a matter of infinite importance in my
judgment) by associating with each other and form-
ing friendships in Juvenile years, be enabled to free
themselves in a proper degree from those local preju-
dices and habitual jealousies which have just been
mentioned and which when carried to excess are
never failing sources of disquietude to the public
mind and pregnant of mischievous consequences to
this country ;—Under these impressions so fully di-
lated —

“1’TEM—The hundred shares which I held in the
James River Company I have given and now confirm
in perpetuity to and for the use and benefit of Lib-
erty Hall Academy in the County of Rockbridge, in
the Commonwealth of Virginia.”

 

NEW BOOKS RECEIVED FOR LIBRARY
RACKS

The library has received the following books re-
cently: a set of books from the National Geographic
Society, including “The Book of Fishes,” “The Book
of Dogs,” “The Book of Horses,” “The Book of Wild-
flowers,” and a book on the Capitol at Washington ;
“The Best Stories of 1925,” by O’Brien; a gift from
the Salvation Army including “The Salvation Army
Journal’”’ and “T'wice Born Men;” “The War Letters
of Kiffin Yates Rockwell,” and “The Triangle of Life”
by Charles W. Diehl.

The last two mentioned books are gifts from the au-
thors who are alumni of Washington and Lee. Diehl’s
book is one of powerful philosophy. He is president
of Concord State College at Athens, West Virginia.

 

JOURNALISM SCHOOL GETS PRINTING
PRESS

Many prominent southern newspapers have contrib-
uted to the R. EK. Lee Memorial School of Journalism
‘within the past few weeks. Foremost among the con-
tributions is an eighteen hundred pound proof press
given by the Lynchburg News, Powell Glass, 09, and
Carter Glass, Jr., 11, publishers. This press is capable
of holding a double chase. This same type of press
is used in the newspaper offices of to-day to take proofs
of whole pages and also to do small jobs such as print-
ing posters and the like. During the time of the Civil

War this type of press was used by the Confederate _
states for printing their money. This press is to hea

a

used by the Journalism classes studying copy reading,

nated three complete fonts of type to the school. These _
fonts were of regular Gothic face to be used in the ‘
They were of three differ. —

making up of head-lines.
ent sizes, being 36, 18 and 12 points, respectively.

 

GENERALS’ RELAY TEAM DEFEATS
UNIVERSITY OF VIRGINIA

The Generals’ crack relay team defeated the mile 5

runners of the University of Virginia by six yards
or more in what proved to be the feature of the Uni-
versity of Richmond’s invitation games in the Grays’
Armory in the state capitol. Carded as a special
event, the relay race was the best run event of the
evening, according to witnesses of the meet. Both
teams had the misfortune to have one man slip at
different junctures of the race, but the spurts shown
by several racers, especially by Summerson and Cap-
tain Davis, of the local team, were replete with thrills.

Milbank started the event for Coach, Fletcher’s 4

charges, but was three yards behind when he touched
Wilson off for the second run.
Wilson’s opponent slipped and fell but recovered
himself so quickly that the Blue and White runner
was unable to pass him and had to be content with
remaining at his heels. He gained on the last lap,
however, and touched Summerson off with a slight
advantage.
the first go-round, and, despite frantic efforts on the
part of Laval, stellar sprinter of the Cavalier team,
was able to touch off Captain Davis with a two yard
lead. Running against Captain Irvine, who had won
the national championship at the Penn Relays two
years ago, Davis opened up a gap that the Virginia
marvel could not close at any time. The tape was
hit with Davis holding his own over six yards in
front of the champion.

 

CAVALIER SWIMMERS TAKE TWO
MEETS FROM GENERALS

The local swimmers met a double defeat in their
meet with the University of Virginia by a 46 to 16
score, while the Freshman came out on the short end
of a 35 to 26 count.

In the varsity meet the Virginians annexed five of
the seven first places, the two which went to the
3lue and White swimmers being won by Letcher in
the 50-yard free stroke competition and in the 100-
yard back stroke event. All points from the dive
went to the Charlottesville aggregation by forfeit
while they also took the relay race.

a
-

«
age

Shortly before this, the Roanoke World News do- —

On the second turn —

The latter opened up a five yard gap on.

   

a
-

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 11

ATHLETICS

THe Cack SEASON

The feature of the 1926 Basketball season was
the crushing defeat of the University of Virginia by
Coach “Dick” Smith’s basket ringers, February 20th,
by the score of 46 to 27. From the partisan’s view-
point the other games of the season only form a
background for that game on the fore-stage. Led
by the spirited Captain, Henry Wilson, the Generals
met the Cavaliers at the Doremus gym for the final
game of the year’s schedule. According to the
dopesters, the Virginia quint was to win by a handy
margin. Presenting a puzzling five man zone de-
fense, the Generals upset the well-known “dope
bucket.” “Rudy” Lane and Captain Wilson, play-
ing the last game of their college careers, slipped
through the Cavalier guards for frequent baskets.
“Babe” Spotts at center, high score man of the State,
aided with his brilliant floor work and his difficult over-
head shots through the ring. Frank Urmey, newly
discovered star at guard, and “Bobby” Howe rounded
out the Generals play with a brilliant performance,
Urmey ringing four goals during the contest. The
entire team played a championship game and well
deserved the plaudits of the unusually large audi-
ence, many of whom had journeyed from Char-
lottesville.

Prior to the Virginia game, the General Cagers
had not been able to make a_ successful showing.
They were defeated at Maryland and Catholic Uni-
versity early in the season. In their first home
game, Bridgewater College was defeated but Mary-
land was victorious in their return encounter. Geor-
gia followed on January 15th with a win over the
Blue team. A change in the Generals’ line-up
brought them four consecutive victories over Lynch-
burg College, V. P. I., the University of Richmond
and Roanoke College. In their next foreign inva-
sion they suffered defeats at the hands of Kentucky
and West Virginia and were victorious at Marshall
College. ‘The strong North Carolina quint won their
match on the local’s court and V. P. I. evened their
count by a win at Blacksburg. Carson-Newman
bowed before the Generals and the game with Vir
ginia closed the season.

The majority of the games were played with
Henry Wilson and “Rudy” Lane in the forward po-
sitions, “Babe” Spotts at center and Frank Urmey
and “Bobby” Howe at guard. Wells Little, “Ike”
Shupp, J. Y. McCandless and “Zeb” Herndon sul-

sututed effectively throughout the season.

 

Russell S. Rhodes, 716, is Assistant Secretary and
Manager of the Shreveport Chamber of Commerce,
having been elected to this office last December.

GENERALS ANNOUNCE DIAMOND
SCHEDULE

The 1926 diamond schedule of Coach Dick Smith’s
Generals has recently been announced by the Ath-
letic Council as approved to date. ‘The games on the
list are for the most part with the same teams which
have appeared as the General’s opponents in recent
years, with the notable exception of Rutgers, who
will play on Wilson field, April 5th.

The week of April 2-9 will see the annual enter-
tainment of the invasion from the north, the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania aggregation playing here
April 2nd and 3rd, Rutgers on the 5th, while Cor-
nell will trot her classy nine on the diamond for two
straight days April 8th and 9th. The Generals’
Northern trip will be the week of May 10-16.

The schedule as announced follows:

March 27—Open.

April 2—Pennsylvania, here.
April 3—Pennsylvania, here.
April 5—Rutgers, here.
April &—Cornell, here.
April 9—Cornell, here.
April 13—Lynchburg, here.
April 15—Richmond, here.
April 17—Virginia, there.
April 22—V. P. I., here.
April 24—Open.

April 28—Virginia, here.
April 29—Davidson, here.
May ~ 1—V. P. L., there.
May 4 —N. C. State, here (pending)
May 8&—Medical College of Va., here.
May 10—Maryland, there.
May 11—Open.

May 12—Navy, there.

May 13—Fordham, there.
May 14—Seton Hall, there.
May 15—Rutgers, there.

 

TRACK SCHEDULE

The Generals’ track and field schedule, as recently
made public by Coach Fletcher, and approved by
the Athletic Council, is as follows:

April 2—North Carolina University, here.

April 19—North Carolina State, here.

April 24—Joint meet with Harvard and William
and Mary at Williamsburg.

May 1—University of Richmond, here.

May 8—V. P. I., there.

May 14—Southern Conference tournament of the
N. C. U. field at Chapel Hill.

 

Percy D. Ayres, ’22, is now in Baltimore with
Stein Brothers and Boyce.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ATHLETIC NOTES

Spring football is now in order. Coach “Pat”
Hearon is in Lexington to start the annual preliminary
conditioning.

ee.

With Henry Wilson and “Rudy” Lane lost to the
Varsity for next year the Generals’ Cagers have ex-
cellent material left in Frank Urmey, “Babe” Spotts
and “Bobby” Howe, all of whom have given a stellar
performance during the past season. A wealth of
material from this year’s undefeated Freshman team
should round out a winning varsity combination,

+ ee

The gymnasium is the scene of much activity
these early spring afternoons. “Suicide” fills the
basketball court—every hand ball court is occupied,
while runners circle the track, boxers and wrestlers
work on the mats in odd corners and the gym team
takes orders from Cy Twombly in the apparatus

room.
* * x

Coach Mathis, serving his first year on the Physi-
cal Education faculty, has won much admiration and
respect as a coach and as grappler par excellence.

* ok ok

The third annual prep school basketball tourney
was a pre-eminent success. It has become to South-
ern preparatory and high schools what the Atlanta
tournament is to Southern Conference. Originated
by Captain “Dick” Smith, graduate manager of ath-
letics, three years ago for Virginia teams, it has
come to include teams from all of the surrounding
states. It is staged annually under the auspices of
the W. and L. Athletic Association.

* *« *

The showing of the Blue and White pugs against
Colgate in the final bout of the year, was phenominal.
Captain Hearon and “Ken” Durham had exception-
ally able opponents and fought against odds. Yet
their victory was clear-cut and decisive.

ib A

Much credit for the success of boxing at W. and
L.. for the past three years should be given to Ed
Felsenthal, peppy feather weight and Captain of the

team last year.
x * x

The Faculty are not overlooking their exercise.
B. A. Wooten, genial physicist, is now a regular
at the gym; Cary Gambill, W. G. Bean and Pro-
fessors Eutsler, Clapp, Leavitt and Dominick take
daily workouts, while Roscoe Ellard, of the Journa-
lism School meets all comers on the mat or with the
gloves.

TEN MEMBERS OF NEWS CLASS SEE
REAL PAPER

Ten members of the newswriting class of the
Journalism school, accompanied by Professor R, BL
Ellard, visited the Roanoke newspapers on a tour of
inspection. The trip was made for the purpose of
showing the students the actual process of patting
out a city daily. |

The students making the trip were excused frodil
other classes during the day, and the start was ms Je
at 10 o'clock. On arrival in Roanoke about 12
o'clock all went to the plant of the Roanoke Times
and World-News. ‘There they went through a few
offices, and then had lunch. At 2 o'clock they were
conducted through the editorial department by the —
president of the company, Junius Fishburn, who ng
plained the duties of the different editors and What _
came out of each office. v8

Students say one of the most interesting ates
of the trip was the tour of the composing room, where —
the operation of linotype machines, mats, and head —
setting was explained. A trip to the press room was —
made next at 3:30 o’clock, press time for the after-
noon paper. The students had the operation of the —
press explained to them, and saw the papers come
off at the rate of six hundred a minute. ,

Mr. Fishburn, president of the company, presented
some type, mats, and other equipment from the com- 4
posing room to Professor Ellard, who plans to use it A
in practical demonstrations.

After thorough inspection of the plant, the party
returned to the editorial department, where the city —
editor and editor gave talks on the problems facing
a reporter and a newspaper. Questions were asked —
by Professor Ellard and the students. The problem
of developing a “beat” was given the most attention,
along with the faults and troubles of a new reporter. —

The trip was made possible through the courtesy gy
of the officials of the Roanoke papers, who threw
open the plant to the students. =

a

   
 
   
  
    
    
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
    
  
    
   
  
   
 
   
   
  
   
   
 
 
  

 

WORK ON WILSON FIELD PROGRESSING ©
RAPIDLY NOW

Work on the excavation of Wilson field has been —
held up considerably on account of the bad weather
during the past two weeks. Now that the weather
has cleared up and the ground has become somewhat
drier, rapid progress is being made, R. A. Smith,
graduate manager of Athletics, stated. i

He would make no predictions as to the definite 3
date when this work would be finished, but expects —
it to be completed within a few weeks. ‘The object —
of the excavation of this hill is to provide a level —
clearance for the placing of a curve on the running 4
track. This will provide Washington and Lee with —
one of the best tracks in the state.

a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 1

Ww

Mat and Ring Results

The Generals’ grapplers completed their schedule
with a clean slate and have a clear claim to the
Southern Conference Championship. At the outset,
the team was handicapped by the illness of “Doc”
Woolwine. Later Captain “Tex” Tilson was lost to
the team for the same reason. However, under the
able tutelage of Coach Mathis, a most creditable
showing was made. Duke University, V. P. I., and
North Carolina State were met in the Doremus gym
and overcome by the Blue and White grapplers.
Virginia was defeated by a handy margin at Char-
lottesville. Maynard Holt, Captain of last year’s
team, made his only appearance of the year against
V. P. |.. gaining a 7:20 minute time decision in the
unlimited division. Captain “Tex” Tilson wrestled
in the 165 pound division and also in the unlimited
class against North Carolina State, securing a fall
and a time decision, making a total of three falls and
one time decision for the three matches in which he
appeared.

The Generals’ boxing team closed the season with
three wins and three losses, making a brilliant show-
ing against the strong aggregation from Colgate in
the final match of the season. V. P. I. was deci-
sively defeated 4 to 2, but Virginia triumphed over
the local pugs & to 1, Eddie Felsenthal, sterling 125
pounder, securing the only decision. On their North-
ern trip the Blue and White mittmen won a hard
fought match with Catholic University, 4 to 3, and
lost to Yale and the Army by the score of 4 to 2 in
each match.

 

Ep FELSENTHAL

The match with Colgate, conquerors of V. M. L.
and several large Eastern Colleges, deserves especial
mention. Decisive wins were registered by Oster-
man, 115; Captain Hearon, 135; Durham, 158, and
Spotts, unlimited. Felsenthal, plucky veteran, lost
the second and last match of his college career to his
125 pound Colgate opponent by a referee’s decision.
The bouts were featured by the clever work of the
W. and L. fighters, their coolness in the face of their
opponents heavy onslaught, and the excellent sports-
manship displayed by both teams throughout.

soth Wrestling and Boxing are becoming very
popular sports on the campus. Coach Mathis and
his teams are to be heartily congratulated upon the
showing made this year.

 

 

CATS AIN’T CATS

“Has anybody seen my kitty, has anybody seen my
cat?”

Nobody had, apparently, and Chief Parrent, of the
Lexington police force, was deputized to find what he
could find.

It seems that a certain student of biology, whom it is
better to call Mister X, wanted a cat to practice carv-
ing on. He searched the byways and alleys of Lexing-
ton, but with little success.

Then he had an idea. He went to a certain store
Monday afternoon in the eastern part of our village,
Presumably to buy a Coca Cola. While the proprietor’s
back was turned he deftly transferred a sleeping tabby
into his coat. All seemed well.

Now, a cat may look at a king, but a biology student
may not look greedily on a cat. Tabby went willingly
but her mistress missed her. She kept on missing her
more and more. Finally someone told her about Mis-
ter X and the store episode. The cat’s mistress sud-

denly felt ill. She had visions of chloroform and all
other evils of the laboratory. Perhaps her cat was now
where all good cats go. Anyhow, she notified Chief
Parrent, and he, along with two able-bodied men, did
the rest.

The student was found at 11 o'clock down the street
parked in a car with a girl. The chief tapped him
firmly and emphatically on the shoulder, and notified
him kindly but earnestly that Tabby was wanted at
home. Mister X was terribly embarrassed, but he got
the keys to the laboratory and Tabby was returned.

All of which goes to show that while pigs is pigs,
some cats are not cats—they are pets, and not chloro-
form fodder.

Mr. Robert Glasgow, 00, of Charlotte, N. C., was
in Lexington on a visit to his father Dr. Robert Glas-
gow, for a week in January. He is president of the
Glasgow-Allison Wholesale Hardware Company of
Charlotte.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“YELPING ALUMNI” NOW FOOTBALL’S
MENACE

An anonymous writer in The Outlook of January 6,
states that the matter with college football is the “yelp-
ing alumni.”

“The biggest menace to college football today,” he
says, “is the yelping alumni. A team must win. A
coach must turn out a winning team or the Roman mob
turns thumbs down and off comes his head.”

“Halfback Grange is a quite natural evolution of the
college football system. A star football player is glori-
fied, deified, and his true importance on the campus
magnified until all sense of values is lost.”

HARMON FUNDS AID 14 W. & L.
STUDENTS

Since its affiliation with Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in 1923, the Harmon Foundation has been able
to extend its services of loaning funds for educational
purposes to fourteen Washington and Lee students.
These loans have been made on a strictly business basis,
as it is the belief of the foundation that in this way
alone the student can acquire a knowledge of and re-
sponsibility in business rules with which he will meet
after college.

The Harmon Foundation considers the student bor-
rower, after he has paid his obligation under the easy
method of repayment in use, has materially benefited
himself and also the general student body. The Divi-
sion of Student Loans of the Foundation, in its first
three years of operation has assisted 762 students by
loaning the principal and income of its funds, while
had this money been restricted to the use of the in-
come at the rate of six per cent only 91 students could
have been aided in this same length of time.

The average student budget estimated for an aca-
demic year at Washington and Lee is $844. ‘The ap-
propriation to the University has been $1,000 each
year, and this has been made from funds turned over
to the Harmon Foundation for administration by Mr.
John H. Storer of Boston.

SEVEN RECORDS FALL AS MIDDIES WIN
MEET

Seven inter-collegiate swimming records were
broken by the midshipmen of the U. S. Naval Acad-
emy when they defeated Washington and Lee’s
aquatic team, 52 to 10, in the former’s pool at An-
napolis. Letcher, of the Generals, forced Rule. to
break two records to win, the back-stroke and the
50-yard freestyle. Letcher was the only Blue and
White tankman to take a second place. In two
matches, he has scored a total of 16 points,’and is the
outstanding swimmer on the Generals’ team.

ELEVEN MEN ELECTED TO HONORARY
CIRCLE

Eleven men were initiated into Alpha ciscle of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, national honorary fraternity, in a
meeting held shortly before the holidays. ‘The new
men are as follows: ‘T. B. Bryant, Jr.; J. D. Carter ;
K. A, Durham; L. L. Edgerton; R. M. Holt; C, B.
Knight; C. W. Lowry, Jr.; T. T. Moore; W. W. Pal-
mer; L,. J. Rauber, and T. L. Seehorn.

From the fifteen men who comprised Alpha circle,

the first chapter which was founded at Washington and

Lee University in 1914, Omicron Delta Kappa has
grown to fifteen circles with a total membership of
1200 men. Better known as the Circle, it annually

initiates a representative group of men selected because ~

of the leadership which they have displayed in the ya-
rious phases of college affairs. ive classes of ac-
tivity are recognized and given membership. ‘They are
athletics, scholarship, social affairs, publications, and
forensics.

Members of the faculty of the University who are
members of Omicron Delta Kappa are: Dr, Henry
Louis Smith, Dr. J. L. Howe, Dr. D. B. Easter, Dr.
H. D. Campbell, Prof. C. E. L. Gill, Prof. R. H.
Tucker, Dr. EK. F. Shannon, Prof, R. N. Latture.

Announcement of the names of two honorary mem-
bers will be made at an early date. A banquet is also
being planned for the new members.

—_—__-__

NINE HUNDRED ARE NOW ENROLLED IN
UNIVERSITY

Nine hundred and one students are now enrolled in
the University.
the second semester. ‘This is an increase of forty-six
over the number that were enrolled last year. The
University was pressed for sufficient space last year but
now, with the new Chemistry building in operation
there is‘room for more students. ‘The enrollment of
901 students marks a record in the attendance at the
University. It is not definitely decided as to what the
limit of enrollment for next year will be, but it will
probably be somewhere in the neighborhood of the
present attendance. In 1908 the attendance at the Uni-
versity was 468. In the eighteen years since then it has
practically doubled.

 

Two articles in the December number of the Jour-
nal of the American Chemical Society on ruthenium
were by Dr. James L. Howe, Head of the Chemis-
try Department at Washington and Lee. ‘These ar-
ticles give the results of research by two of his stu-
dents, Messrs. Haynes and Mercier, on isomeric
ruthenium chlorides and upon the solubility of ru-
thenium in hypochlorite solutions.

 

Twenty of these entered school for

   

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

TWENTIETH ANNUAL FANCY BALL
GORGEOUS AFFAIR

Transformed into a veritable garden with all colors
of the rainbow, lit with many brilliant globes, Doremus
gymnasium at Washington and Lee was the scene, Feb-
ruary 2nd, of the twentieth annual fancy dress ball.
Flowers in silver vases were arranged artistically around
the walls. ‘The floor during the opening figures was a
colorful scene with all in costume, varied and fancy.
All callings and nationalities seemed to be represented
in the crowded space.

The ball represented the arts, and effective tableaux
were carried out upon an improvised stage, sculpture,
painting, music, poetry, drama and dance were repre-
sented. Following the tableaux Miss Frances Fliza-
beth Foster of Charleston, West Virginia, gave a
charming bit of ballet dancing. ‘Then came the grand
march. Preceding the tableaux, the long line of danc-
ers not in the opening figure filed in and took places
around the walls.

The ball was led by Richard D. Maben with Miss
Mary Margaret Bumgardner of Staunton, assisted by
Henry Wilson with Miss Bessie Graves of Lynchburg.
The leaders viewed the tableaux from a raised dias
facing the stage.

Music for the handsome occasion was furnished by
Oliver Naylor’s orchestra of Birmingham. Credit for
the success of the ball is due to the efforts of Professor
Carl E. L. Gill, director.

A new feature of the occasion was the reserving of
the floor until after the figure exclusively for those in
costume. The gallery was crowded with patrons and
alumni in evening dress, there being no admissions ex-
cepting to invited guests in dress fitting to the occasion.
There were no admission tickets sold to the balcony
to the general public as has formerly been the custom.
The room and galleries, however, were crowded to ca-
pacity.

The fancy ball brought to a close the mid-winter fes-
tivities which opened Monday night with the junior
prom. Dinner dances were held as far off as Natural
Bridge and the Stonewall Jackson, Staunton. Many
fraternity dances and parties in the interim made the
s€ason a gay one. According to usual custom a holi-
day was granted for the first three days of the week
during the festivities and following the closing of the
first semester examination.

F. Stanley Porter, ’16, is engaged in the practice of
law with the firm of Mullikin and Porter, at 1601-02

rs National Bank Building, Baltimore, Mary-
and.

 

_ Intercollegiate boxing has found its place at Wash-
ington and Lee. ‘The too few bouts draw crowds,
second only to football in numbers and enthusiasm.

NAME OF SPRING TROUBADOUR SHOW
“CUBAN NIGHTS”

The cast for the spring ‘Troubadour play, “Cuban
Nights,” which was written by three Washington and
Lee students, was announced recently by those in charge
of the tryouts, which have been held during the past
few weeks.

The play is a musical comedy in two acts and four
scenes, the first act taking place at Coral Stables, Flor-
ida, and the second act being laid in Havana, Cuba.

The following compose the nine main characters of
the cast:

Se PIII bn i caus pit hee an aches Van Hollaman
eM Ua | 5 pd oaks ree geet nk F. C. Mellon
MARCO ies 6 vivin' esa eee \V. R. McDonough
Se PONE So ED PORNO Fao OE EE E. L. Smith
CMM Gnd ss oie 4 bien FEA CASK * Rk. H. Thatcher
CR ign a a rs in bu os GRC Ss ok Bae . Reeves
PEN ONG y's cack nin kinins oR J. C. Chapman
oy Re Be oe Ie Melvin Boyd
A Couwton Officer............. William Harrington
TR IEIIIIE, oie hens wiealhd sophie es 04 FE. H. Miller

DOUBLE VICTORY IS SCORED IN DEBATE

Washington and Lee won two debates on the night
of February 25th against Johns Hopkins University
and University of North Carolina in Baltimore, and
Lexington, respectively. ‘The question was on the rec-
ognition of Soviet Russia by the United States.

C. W. Lowry, and J. S. Grasty were the represen-
tatives who went to Baltimore and won by a two to one
decision. W. A. MacDonough, ’29, and W. A, Plum-
mer, ‘29, participated in the Lexington debate.

FRATERNITY SCHOLARSHIP AVERAGES

Li: NONE EL dask ss vgn es vide ce we ahaa 76,802
Mi RR EIOUNS 5 6 Goi sks sts 6 ota ps 8 eS 75,244
A ae RE RD ie a ae 74,840
SION SMR OU Lies 6 bea Re 74,061
Dus Ne Ge TUE CA. ss ER lS FO 73,635
eee MA MEE, SOUT Chee Sad 73,232
Aid ROTORS) 0 SAN CAD 73,125
SIE INNS Rs 6S RR fs EA 73,122
Wea Tmroemon says. OO a 72,712
10. 8igma-‘Alpha Epsilon: : 032)... .06. 0008, 71,896
LES ii Cia. duu Ws ox bi bees 71,845
LZ 6 ois vid cents Seeaieeeey 71,642
SITE TIES cig a < c vedBiath wi aeepslena 71,641
PE EI dies ds Ss vq chew Se aD whee SAE 71,400
et eer en ae ee eee er 71,141
McA, atA, 6. +s Fann cipians ieee 71,066
1/7 geen: ORR: xt pitts ib dte See Bs oe ea 71,041
1S. :Peieiins . Delta ...5:65 casi te ae 70,862
19. Algme Ten Omettt. .:.-ci etic sates suas 69,310

Local Club
Bg ne SRE oe ee See. oe 78,985

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

BALTIMORE ALUMNI ORGANIZE

Inspired by the leadership of Jackson R. Collins,
‘18, and an_ enthusiastic central committee, the
alumni of Baltimore, Maryland, and vicinity met an
February 19th to form a permanent alumni organi-
zation.

The organization dinner was held at the Univer-
sity Club of Baltimore.

As toastmaster of the occasion, Mr. Roberdeau A,
McCormick, ’72, gave several interesting reminis-
. censes of his college days and presided with an easy
grace which made for the greatest conviviality pos-
sible. Jackson E. Collins gave a brief outline of his
hopes to see a permanent alumni organization in
Baltimore. Verbon E. Kemp, Secretary of the
Alumni, Incorporated, spoke upon the value of col-
lege associations and contacts and their continuation
in later life. Dr. Matthew Page Andrews voiced his
approval of the plans outlined by Mr. Collins.

At the close of the meeting Jackson R. Collins
was elected president; J. Carl Fisher, secretary ; and
A. H. Chandler, vice-president. Plans were made
for holding at least three megtings each year with
the possibility of meeting for monthly luncheons,
should it prove practicable.

The meeting was attended by the following alumni:
Matthew Page Andrews, ’01, Percy D. Ayres, ’22,
William Ballou, ’93, John W. Baylor, °14, Jackson
R. Collins, 717, R. G. Craig, 716, J. Carl Fisher, °16,
William J. Flagg, 13, Frank H. Jacobs, ’22, Joah A.
Johnston, 19, William FE. Johnston, ’20, R. A. Me-
Cormick, ’76, R. R. McNamara, Stanley Porter, °16,
R. T. Smith, Charles C. Thomas, 05, James Thomas,
14, George Vest, °’23, Theodore C. Waters, 717,
George P. Whipp, ‘06 and °10, A. H. Chandler, ’11,
and Duke C. Dorney.

—

COL. C. N. FEAMSTER, ’96, RETIRES

Lexington Gasette—‘It is with deep regret that
the Gazette announces that Colonel C. N. Feamster,
96, has felt it necessary to dispose of his stock in
the paper and to retire from its editorial manage-
ment. Mr. B. F. Harlow, ’98, the publisher of the
Gazette, has purchased Colonel Feamster’s interest.

“The publisher is grateful to Colonel Feamster
for his invaluable assistance in rehabilitating the
Gasette and getting it firmly established in the es-
teem of the public, and upon a solid business founda-
tion. It was the hope of the publisher that Colonel
Feamster would have found it possible to continue
longer than the year, as the editor of the paper, but
he has found it impossible to do so, and the Gazette
and its readers part with him with regret and feel-
ings of sincere esteem and affection.”

    
   
   
  
 
   
   
   
   
      
 
    
  
  
  

ARKANSAS ORGANIZATION

Lee’s birthday was celebrated by a group of Awa
kansas alumni who had their annual dinner at the
Marion Hotel in Little Rock. Dr. E. P. Bledsoe.
‘00, delivered an address. Dr. Bledsoe was elected
president and John W. Newman, ’08, secretary, sue
ceeding D. H. Cantrell, ’87, as president and J. HL
Penick, 17, as secretary. a

A plan was adopted for a “squad leader” in each |
town in the state with whom the officers would keep
in touch for the purpose of furthering the interests —
of Washington and Lee and securing a larger attend- _
ance for their annual dinners. ‘This squad leader js —
to act as a representative of the Association in his _
locality, securing a complete list of all Washington —
and Lee men, with their correct addresses, and doing |
such other things as the officers may call upon him
to sie a

They also decided upon a plan for the award o ‘
scholarships, appointing a committee of three to re-
ceive papers or compositions from high school boys —
seeking scholarships, and to recommend the boy who —
presents the best paper. As yet very few of the
alumni know that the Association has the right to—
award a scholarship. Should that become pretty —
well known over the State it will stimulate interest —
in the University. 4

a
~

LOUISVILLE ALUMNI MEETING

A most interesting and fruitful meeting was held
in Louisville, Kentucky, on February 22nd, at the —
Kentucky Hotel, featured by an address by Dr. R.
Granville Campbell and presided over by R. P. Hob- —
son, 717. ;

Mr. John J. Davis, 92, made a very interesting talk
on the “Man and His College,” and Dr. Campbell’s —
remarks on “Our Benefactors” were both interesting
and instructive. Z

There were present at the meeting Judge Thomas _
R. Gordon, ’72; John J. Davis, 92; A. M. Robinson,
78; W. R. Kneblekamp, ’21; James N. Veech, 94, G.
R. Smiley, 02; H. V. Bell, 19; L. A. Hickman, "99; ~
R. M. Strassel, °10; ‘T. E. Caldwell, H. K. Hill, “71; q
Edward Rietze; George S. Mercke, ’25; 'T. Kennedy —
Helm, 95; Helm Bruce, ’80; R. J. McBryde, 95; W. —
L.. Hoge, 06; Arthur Tabb, 09, and R. P. Hobson, —
"hi?

The success of the meeting was due largely to the —
interest and energy of R. P. Hobson, *17. Arrange-
ments have been made for the alumni to speak at the
two High Schools in Louisville in an endeavor to in-
terest them in Washington and Lee. |

 

The Very Rev. Frederic C. Meredith, ’03, is Dean |
of the Cathedral of St. Luke, Ancon, Canal Zone.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE -

Monthly Luncheons of New York Alumni Grow in Attendance

Under the enthusiastic leadership of James A.
(Jimmie) Lee, ‘17, Thornton W. Allen, *11, D. R.
Snively, ‘23 and EK. B. Vinson, ’23, the monthly
luncheons planned by the New York Alumni Asso-
ciation have grown in interest and attendance.

These luncheons, which are held on the first
Wednesday of every month, alternating between
Sardi’s Rathskeller, 30 Park Place, downtown, on
edd months, and the Interfraternity Club, at Madi-
son Avenue and 38th Streets, on even months be-
tween 12 and 2 o'clock, will be continued until early
spring. All out-of-town alumni in New York at
any time are urged to make their plans to attend
these luncheons.

Those attending the January luncheon + were:
Paul Bryant, ’10, Roy Bryant, 16, Thornton W. AI-
len, “11, George W. Allison,-’10, E. W. Bibb, ’24,
W. R. Burton, 17, John Drye, ’20, W. M. Farrar,
19, Donald G. Grimley, °23, Roy J. Grimley, ’21,
Hugh Rk. Hawthorne, ‘10, Lindsay Henry, °25, E.
W. Lee, 713, James A. Lee, *17, Charlie Lile, °14, W.
C. M. McKnight, ’23, Charlie McNitt, ’17, George S.
Mueller, ’21, EK. W. Poindexter, ‘23, M. B. Rogers,
15, M. S. Sanders, °17, D. R. Snively, ’23 and E. B.
Vinson, °’21.

Those attending the February luncheon were: Dr.
Wm. Elliott Dold, ’77, M. B. Rogers, °17, G. S.
Mueller, ’20, W. R. Burton, 17, E. W. Poindexter,
"23, W. C. McKnight, ’24, D. G. Grimley, ’23, Charles
A. Cohen, ’24, H. L. Brown, 05, R. A. Hunter, ’23,
L.. T. Brown, 719, E. B. Vinson, ’23, M. S. Sanders,
‘17, Isaac Shuman, °17, Robert R. Kane, °17, Henry
W. Dew, ’11, John Drye, Jr., ’20, R. E. Tyrrel, ’18,
Jesse Tow, ’25, Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., 16, V. G.
Iden, 07, Roy J. Grimley, ’21, D. R. Snively, ’23,
Thornton W. Allen, 711, J. A. Lee, *17, and EB. W.
Lee, 713.

 

SAN ANTONIO ALUMNI MEET ON LEE’S

BIRTHDAY

Although handicapped by the small number of
alumni residing in San Antonio, ‘Texas, a lively and
enthusiastic meeting was held at the Menger Hotel
in that city on Lee’s birthday, January 19th. The
old fires were kept burning by the reminiscenses of
those present, which ranged from the years 1875 to
1925.

While no permanent association was formed, it
Was definitely decided to call all of the San Antonio
alumni together for such a meeting annually. Those
present at the dinner were: Albert Steves, ’75, Er-
pest Steves, ’77, R. O. Huff, ’99, Albert Steves, Jr.,
06, Jesse Beitel, 09, R. R. Witt, ’13, Russell Wine,
13, Walter Steves, 14 and John P. Aylmer, ’25.

 

a ee

aie

 

 

James A. Les, ‘17

 

During these monthly luncheons the smiling person-
ality of Jimmie Lee has been predominant. Through
him many alumni meet and form new _ friendships,
while others meet long forgotten friends. .To his
committee and the newly elected officers of the New
York Alumni Association much credit is due for their
successful activity, which has not only been a great
benefit to Washington and Lee but also to the indi-
vidual alumni.

 

 

FRESHMAN CAGERS UNBEATEN

As in football, the little Generals give excellent
promise for next year. Coach Cy Twombly’s Frosh
basketball team met and decisively defeated Augusta
Military Academy, Massanutten, Roanoke High,
Lynchburg High, Virginia Episcopal High, North
Carolina University freshmen and Devitt Prep. The
yearling quint was composed of the following:
Lowry, Lowden, Groop, Spencer, Smith, Edwards

~

and Captain Ebert.

Rev. Dr. Emmett W. McCorkle, ’74, of Rockbridge
Baths, preached at Union Seminary at Richmond Sun-
day, February 7th. His pulpit at Bethesda in his ab-
sence was filled by Prof. W. T. Lyle of the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Annual Meeting of the Louisiana Alumni Association, January | 9th

The peppiest and best attended meeting for several
years, was that of the Louisiana Alumni Association,
which held its annual dinner on General Lee’s birth-
day at Galatoire’s restaurant in New Orleans. Credit
for a most successful year is due to the retiring
President, F. P. Hamilton, who was urged to con-
tinue his leadership but declined because he consid-
ered it unfair to others who he said deserved the
honor.

Officers elected for the current year were: Dr.
H. M. Blain, ’94, president; R. C. Milling, ’08; vice-
president; and F. P. Fischer, secretary-treasurer,
Headquarters address is the office of the president,
1125 Hibernia Building, New Orleans.

The special feature of the meeting was an address
by Newton D. Baker, 94, former Secretary of War,
who was in the city on business and graciously con-
sented to attend as honor guest. Original menu
cards and talks reminiscent of campus life, preced-
ing the address, gave life to the occasion, as did
telegrams from’ President Smith, Dean Campbell,
Verbon Kemp, Dr. Granville Campbell and Dean
Howe.

Dean Douglas Anderson, of Tulane University,
of the class of 1890, made a most excellent toast-
master, and the following responded: Dr. H. M.
Blain, to “The River Nile;’ Judge W. A. Bell, ’95,
to “The Board of ‘Trustees ;” Judge N. P. Bryan, to
“The Law School;’ Samuel Young, ’98, to “The
Engineering School ;” and Frank P. Fischer, to “The
Stars, Madame Henrietta Louise and Ole Hairy
Camel.” Thanks to Paul Felder, ’97, of the Wer-
lein Music Company, the “Swing” and other college
records on the new orthophonic Victrola, played
throughout the dinner, added spice to the lively con-
versation of the “old grads.” A copy of the very
first “Calyx,” belonging to Judge Bell, was also rev-
eled in by the older contingent, several of whom had
a part in its making.

Mr. Baker’s address, although extemporaneous,
was a masterpiece, and it is to be regretted that it
could not have been taken verbatim and broadcast to
all alumni. After brief reminiscences of his college
days in the nineties and tributes to the President,
G. W. C. Lee, and the faculty of those years, as well
as the student body, he most eloquently attributed the
success and ability of W. and L. University alumni
in every walk of life to the character-building they
received at the institution founded by George Wash-
ington, whom he pronounced “easily the greatest
man ever born on the American continent,” and pre-
sided over by General Robert FE. Lee, “the only
leader of an unsuccessful cause to become a great
figure in history.” | .

That in great accomplishment “nothing counts like
character” was his theme, and he declared he ;
convinced from his study of men and nations t it
character rather than genius or any other quality de- a
termined permanent success and leadership. ‘a

Those attending the meeting were: J. M. Robin- S
son, ’°76, Shreveport; George Hill, ’76, West Baton
Rouge; Judge N. P. Bryan, Florida; Paul S. Fel -
der, 97, P. H. Hardy, ‘08, J. Bonner Gladney, 17a
K. L. Gladney, °18, F. P. Fischer, Lazu Block, ’74,
Dr. L.. von Meysenburg, ’13, Judge W. A. Bell, 95,
W. B. Wisdom, ’21, H. H. Harvey, Douglas S. An
derson, 98, H. M. Blain, 94, B. Palmer Orr, Sam-
uel Young, 98, F. P. Hamilton, 99, G. S. Guion, H.~
M. Butler, ’12, J. W. C. Wright, ’21, all of New Or-_
leans. Rev. W. M. Alexander, ’84, R. C. Milling, |
08, T. J. Bartlette, ’71, S. L. Herold; 98, J. ime
Newton and W..H. Hoffman, ’76, who had planned |
to attend, were unavoidably detained. ,

    
   
  
  
  
  

 

“ME’N YOU”

———

A Gustatory Offering
by

La. Alumni Association of W. and L. U.

Adapted from
“L’/,UNIVERSITE-C’EST MOI”
by !
Earle Stansbury Mattingly

All-Star Cast Featuring

MADAME HENRIETTA LOUISE
AND
OLE HAIRY

Scenery by North River
Costumes by V. (Un) Kemp’
Music by Do-Re-Mus

Titles by Cally Thump

-_—-- =

Passed by the Bored ‘Trustees

Campus Shrimp Cocktail
Virginia Creeper Turtle Soup
Filet of Nile River Trout
House Mountain Potatoes
Half Chicken a l’Annie Joe
East Lexington Mixed Salad
Biscuit Glace a ]’Hotel Bleu
Coffee Ton Hellenon
He-roots

CAMEL

THE ALUMNI

ROANOKE ALUMNI STAGE BANQUET

With Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of Wash-
ington and Lee, as the speaker of the occasion, the
Roanoke alumni held their annual banquet meeting
February 25th at the Hotel Patrick Henry. In addi-
tion to about 50 members of the Roanoke alumni chap-
ter, former Governor EF. Lee Trinkle and 14 members
of the last football team of the Jefferson high school
were present.

Dr. Smith told the alumni about the remarkable
growth of Washington and Lee in both physical and
scholastic ways during the past five years and then
spoke primarily to the high school students present
about the necessity of college training in what he de-
scribed as “this age of the mind.”

 

 

 

R. G. Wuirt.e, ’24

 

After Dr. Smith’s address, talks were made by a
number of the alumni and Jesse Carter, representing
the high school students present, expressed their ap-
preciation of the invitation to attend the banquet.

A resolution calling upon Dr. Smith to use his in-
fluence toward having the W. & L.-V. P. I. football
game for 1926 played in Roanoke was adopted and the
tollowing officers were elected: R. G. Whittle, °24,
president ; L.. J. Boxley, ’09, vice-president, and Mor-
ris L. Masinter, ’16, secretary-treasurer. An execu-
‘Ive committee to act as a means of effecting closer co-
®peration between the local alumni and the school was
also chosen, the members being C. S. McNulty, ‘02,
H. M. Moomaw, ’07, H. M. Fox, ’01, J. B. Newton,

MAGAZINE 19

Jr., °13, George W. Chaney, ’11, EK. W. Poindexter,
23, and R. B. Adams, °13.

Horace M. Fox presided over the meeting as toast-
master and chairman in the absence of the president,
C. S. McNulty.

Lawyers’ Club, Ann Arbor, Muich.,
January 12, 1926.
My dear Mr. Kemp:

Thanks for yours of the 8th, and enclosed you will
please find my check for $2.00 for the current year’s
subscription to the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

The MAGAZINE is very enjoyable and I pass on a
remark made to me yesterday by a graduate of Cor-
nell University on picking up a copy of the Maca-
ZINE. He said it was one of the best alumni publi-
cations he had seen and had his own Alma Mater’s
similar publication pushed off the map. So keep the
good work up.

Joe Tip Gwaltney and I are trying hard to enjoy
zero weather, with lots of snow thrown in, without
an awful lot of success but in spite of that we are

getting along very well.

Wishing you continued success in your alumni
work, I am Very truly yours,
THos. H. HarMan.

OBITUARY

W. W. Estill, °68, of Lexington, Kentucky, died
at his home on December 29th.

Dr. Samuel Oliver Young, ‘68, oldest native of
Houston, Texas, died February 16th. During his
eighty-one years he had served in the capacities of
soldier, doctor, newspaper man, editor, author and
historian. Entering the Confederate army at the
age of sixteen years, he served honorably during the
Civil War, and after returning from service at the
close of hostilities he entered Washington and Lee.
After his graduation, he entered Tulane University
and after taking a degree in medicine, returned to
However, the
death of his mother turned him away from the prac-

Houston to begin active practice.

tice of medicine, and he later became the editor of
the Galveston News, making Galveston his home.
He eventually left journalism for a position as sec-
retary of the Galveston Cotton Exchange.

Ill-health from over-work caused Dr. Young to re-
turn to Houston to take up the more leisurely pro-
fession of writing, turning his talents to the memoirs
of well-known Texans and Texas history. He was
engaged in this work when his death occurred.

James W. Marshall, ’00, of Washington, D. C.,
died suddenly on January 27th, following a_ throat
operation.

J. R. Driscoll, 18, died February 26th, at his home
in Louisville, Kentucky.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Editorial Paragraphs

The churches of Lexington recently held a union
evangelistic campaign with “Gypsy” Smith, Jr., as
the preacher in charge. Shortly afterward, Fred B.
Smith, noted lay church worker, came to the campus
under the auspices of the “Y.”” Both speakers were
thoroughly enjoyed by the W. and L. students.

 

“Lee’s Life after War” was the subject of an ad-
dress by Dr. Edwin Mims of Vanderbilt University
before the Exchange Club of Nashville, Tennessee,
on Lee’s birthday. The alumni office also. received
a printed copy of the address on “Lee, the College
President,” by D. H. Cantrell, ’85, of Little Rock,
Arkansas. Both addresses reflected a close study of
General Lee’s career at Washington College.

 

The attraction of world-wide attention to educa-
tional work of General Lee is due largely to the
single-handed work of President Henry Louis Smith.
He has been justly termed the greatest living ex-
positor of “Lee after Appomattox.” His stirring
. address from that text has been delivered before
hundreds of large audiences in this country during
the past five years, and has been distributed in print
to thousands of interested readers. It is the only
present day platform oration that ranks in popular-
ity and effectiveness with the famous lecture “Acres
of Diamonds”’ by the late Dr. Conwell.

 

The University Board of Trustees enlarged two
administrative offices at their last annual meet-
ing. Dr. William M. Brown, ’14, was officially
appointed ‘vocational adviser and psychologic ex-
aminer of students,” and Verbon E. Kemp, ’19,
the Alumni Secretary, was made Executive Secretary
of the University. Dr. Brown, Head of the Depart-
ment of Education, will have particular charge of
entering freshmen and through psychological tests
and personal contact guide them in their choice of
courses. As Executive Secretary of the University,
Verbon Kemp is to continue in charge of alumni
work and, in addition, act as assistant to the Presi-
dent. This action definitely and directly allies the
alumni work with the University and coordinates
alumni organization, field extension, financial cam-
paigning and mail publicity under one head.

 

In the light of the present problem of education,
the following quotation from Woodrow Wilson by
Dr. R. Granville Campbell, ’98, in a recent address,
is particularly apt:

“My plea is this: that we now deliberately set
ourselves to make a home for the spirit. of learning,
that we reorganize our colleges on the lines of this

  
   
  
 
   
  
 
 
  
   
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
  
   

simple conception, that a college is not only a ea y
of study but a mode of association, that its co é
are only its formal side, its contacts and associations
its realities. It must become a community of a
ars and pupils—a free community but a very 2
one in which democracy may work its. reasonabl
triumphs of accommodation, its vital processes | yf
union. I am not suggesting that young men be dra-
gooned into becoming scholars or tempted to become —
pedants, or have any artificial compulsion whatever
put upon them, but only that they be introduced i
the high society of university ideals, be exposed t
the hazards of stimulating friendships, be introdu ds
into the easy comradeships of the republic of letters

3y this means the class room itself might some da
come to seem a part of life.”

ae ns

 

Justified coe has been made by _ several —
alumni against the “exclusion act” at the last Faney —
Dress Ball. They came to witness the gala event but
were refused admission because they did not have |
invitations.

The Alumni Office is in hearty sympathy with thea
effort of the Ball, directors to exclude disinterested —
onlookers, self-invited guests from other colleges and
local curiosity seekers from admission to the gym-—
nasium, in the interest of space conservation and dig- —
nity, and so expressed itself. Most visiting alumni — :
do not come under those heads. ‘The exclusion or —
embarrassment of alumni in good standing at the
doors was not anticipated. It was not until the —
Alumni Secretary was called to identify outraged —
visitors that he was aware of the existing situation. —

In the effort to bring about this needed reform, —
several alumni were catight in the wheels of unper- —
fected new machinery. It is to be hoped that due —
allowance will be made. Smoother and more effi- —
cient arrangements have been promised for the fu- —
ture.

ROCKWELL, NOTED ALUMNUS, GUEST
HERE

Paul A. Rockwell, who was graduated from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1910, spent a few days in Lexing-
ton last week. During his stay here, he was a guest
of the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity, of which he is a
member.

Mr. Rockwell has had a rather checkered career.
Since 1914, he has lived in Paris, France. He served
in the World War first as a soldier and later as a war
correspondent; more recently he served as an aviator —
in Morrocan war. Mr. Rockwell is the brother of <
the distinguished aviator, Kiffin Yates Rockwell, —
who was killed in action in France while in the serv- —
ice of the Lafayette Escadrille.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Applied Psychology and Vocational Guidance at W. & L.

By Presipent HENRY Louis SMITH

The former method of determining the fitness of
applicants for matriculation consisted of various tests
of what the applicant had learned during his years of
preparatory school work. Some colleges admitted all
who had been graduated from a high school. Some
set special entrance examinations which every appli-
cant was compelled to pass successfully. Others ac-
cepted satisfactory records of the applicant’s prepara-
tory studies furnished by his teachers ; and many com-
bined one or more of these methods.

Longer experience in college training, the wider
range from which. college students have been drawn,
the introduction of the elective system, and especially
the entering upon college courses of a vast multitude
of young Americans who have no profession or grad-
uate professional training in view, have been steadily
convincing college administrators that moral character,
native ability, will-power and persistence, self-control,
courage, and a capacity for initiative and self-direction
are far more important as promising success or fail-
ure during a college career than acquired information
on certain studies or the ability to stand fixed written
examinations.

One of the many lessons of our American World
War experience was the startling discovery that psy-
chological examinations and tests of character and
personality afforded more reliable predictions of suc-
cess in handling and leading men than physical train-
ing or excellence in military drill.

Five years ago when Washington and Lee was pre-
paring to inaugurate a Department of Education and
Applied Psychology, the university authorities had a
formal consultation with one of the leading business
psychologists of America with reference to the pos-
sibility of utilizing psychological tests in determining
fitness for college study, the right selection of college
studies for development, and especially for vocational
guidance during one’s college career. This psycholo-
gist positively affirmed at that time that if Washington
and Lee adopted any such system as this it would be
fifty years ahead of every university now training
America’s future citizens.

Shortly afterward, when the present head of our
Department of Education entered upon graduate work
at Columbia University, which has been the center of
the psychologic movement, he was specially advised to
make this problem his special function, and took for
his Ph.D. research “The Effect of Character and Per-
sonality on College Success.” Since he began his work
it has been the custom at Washington and Lee to make
psychological tests of entering freshmen. Beginning
with last September these tests were much broadened,
giving to experts who examined them a much more

all-embracing and accurate knowledge of the capaci-
ties, weaknesses, and possibilities of entering students
than was ever before accessible to the deans and col-
lege advisers of our students.

Experts of this type at Stanford, Dartmouth, Har-
vard, Columbia and many other institutions had al-
ready shown that such a psychological investigation
lasting only an hour or two afforded a more accurate
method of predicting a student’s success or failure in
college than all his high school grades and certificates
combined.

A study of the twenty-five or thirty young men who
failed under the automatic rule at the close of the first
semester of the current year proves to every thought-
ful student that three-fourths of these failures might
have been predicted from the psychological tests alone.

Since the young men now pouring from every walk
of life into our American colleges represent every sec-
tion of the American people, and since the great ma-
jority of them look forward to no training for citi-
zenship beyond a four-year college course, it has be-
come both impossible and unwise to put these masses
of varying men through any inflexible curriculum.
In other words, the future citizen’s college courses
should be cut to fit the citizen himself and to prepare
him in breadth, power, and acquired knowledge to ap-
preciate and utilize the accumulated knowledge of this
Age of Mind, to succeed in making a living by being
an expert in some line of life-service, and to become
a leading citizen in lines of public and civic service in
our crowded age of democratic citizenship.

The Trustees of the University on the recommen-
dation of the President at their recent meeting em-
ployed Dr. W. M. Brown as Vocational Director of
the undergraduates and authorized whatever psycho-
logical tests the administrative officers desire to 1m-
pose; and a special committee of the faculty has been
appointed- to supervise the development, the studies,
and the outside activities of the freshmen.

The whole faculty is at present engaged in a study ‘
of various methods to recognize and reward scholastic
efforts on the part of the students, and to train the
student body to a right appreciation of the relation be-
tween college studies and college activities, the two
rightly combined furnishing the best possible college
training. |

James W. McCartney, ’24, writes us that he is work-
ing “just about as hard as it is possible for a man to
work and retain his religion.” He is a member of the
law firm of McCartney, Foster & McGee, having re-
cently moved to Fort Worth, Texas, from Brown-
wood.

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

William A. Anderson, 61, Dean of Alumni

In June, 1924, William A. Anderson, ’61, resigned
the rectorship of the University Board of ‘Trustees,
because of protracted and severe illness. With the
urgent concurrence of the Board membership he con-
tinued to serve as a Trustee. Still active and keenly
interested in the affairs of Washington and Lee, his
retirement from the chairmanship of the University’s
supreme governing body was a milestone in an official
career of unselfish and loyal service for his Alma
Mater. .

An adequate sketch of Mr. Anderson could be taken
from a history of Washington and Lee, going back to
its early foundation. His maternal grandfather, An-
drew Alexander, was a trustee of Liberty Hall, and
Washington Academy. On the paternal side his grand-
father, Colonel William Anderson of Walnut Hill, a
soldier of the Revolution under Morgan and Green, and
of the War of 1812, when he commanded a regiment at
Norfolk, was on the staff of General Porterfield, and
later a representative in the Virginia State Assembly.
His father was Judge Francis T. Anderson, graduate
of Washington College in 1828, and later a trustee, rec-
tor 1879-87, being a member of the board that elected
General Robert E. Lee president of the college. He
was a distinguished attorney, a member of the State
Legislature and a member of the Virginia Supreme
Court.

William A. Anderson was born at Montrose, then
the family home on the borders of Fincastle, the county
seat of Botetourt County, Virginia. In 1857 he entered
Washington College and, with the exception of one
year, remained until 1861, when he joined the Liberty
Hall Volunteers, and was made orderly sergeant of
the company which became a part of the Stonewall
Brigade. This was the only college company to hold
its identity from Manassas to Appomattox. The “Vol-
unteers” were made up by students of Washington col-
lege under the command of Captain J. J. White, pro-
fessor of Greek. He was invalided out of service after
the first battle of Manassas and succeeded in com-
. mand by Rutherford Morrison, Hugh White and G. B.
Strickler, successively, all alumni of Washington Col-
lege, the latter becoming rector of the Board of Trus-
tees in later years. Mr. Anderson was shot through
the left knee at the battle of Manassas, July 21, 1861.
For several years he went on crutches and being un-
fitted for further military duty, he: became a student
at the University of Virginia, receiving his law degree
in 1866.

After leaving the University, Mr. Anderson moved
to Lexington. There he began the practice of law, in
which profession he soon won preéminent distinction.
He was chosen a member of the State Senate in 1869.
He was appointed Adjunct Commissioner at the Paris
Exposition in 1878 and spent six months abroad. He

was chosen to the House of Delegates in 1883, serving

on the committees on schools, and colleges and finance. a
He was president of the Virginia Bar Association jn _
1899 and was a member of the Constitutional Conyen- _
tion of 1901-02. In 1901 he was made Attorney-Gen-

eral of Virginia, and was attorney for Virginia in the
suit for the settlement of the West Virginia-Virginia _
debt. He was at the head of the State’s Department of
Justice until February, 1910. In 1915, he was chosen
as Rector of the Washington and Lee Board of Trus-
tees, having served as member of that body since 1885, _

As. servant of his Alma Mater, Mr. Anderson’s
greatest service was in bringing about the settlement of —
the claim of Washington and Lee as the grantee of —
George Peabody against the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia. This claim arose when $145,000 of Virginia
bonds, belonging to George Peabody and Company,
were destroyed by fire with the Steamship Arctic in
which they were being brought back to America. Mr,
Peabody granted his claim “To Washington College
of which General R. E. Lee was the president.” In-
cluding interest from 1854 to 1884, this claim amounted
to $406,000, subject to a credit of $14,100. While
numerous efforts had been made to secure a settlement
of this claim, no decision had been reached when the
war intervened. For some time afterward no provi-
sion could be made for payment, the claim standing
as an unrecognized liability of the Commonwealth.
After conferring with the authorities of the University,
Mr. Anderson introduced successively and supported
various bills for the settlement of this claim, which
efforts were finally successful, payment of the claim
being provided for by acts of the General Assembly.
Payment of the sum of then amounting to $406,000 was
made in four equal annual installments, beginning in
1884. In advocating the payment of this debt Mr. An-
derson was fortunate in having the efficient and gen-
erous support of Colonel William T. Poague and Mr.
M. W. Paxton, ’76, delegates in the assembly from
Rockbridge, and of Honorable William A. Glasgow,
‘44, then in the State Senate. Later in life, Major An-
derson served the University in a somewhat similar ca-
pacity as counsel in the settlement of the Doremus es-
tate. The Peabody grant was the largest single gift
ever received and the Doremus estate is the largest
bequest.

In 1871 Mr. Anderson married Miss Ellen G. An-
derson, who died five months after their marriage. In
1875 he married Miss Maza Blair. ‘They are the par-
ents of five children, all living. ‘Their only son, W. D.
A. Anderson, attended Washington and Lee in 1898,
and 1900, and graduated from West Point in 1904.
He was a Colonel of Engineers during the World War
and is at present stationed at Fort Humphreys, Vir-

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

23

 

 

 

WILLIAM

Dean of

ginia, as Principal of the U. S. Army School of En-
gineering,

With a career of such distinction in his chosen field,
©! such sacrificial service in the causes claiming his

heart's attention and such indefatigable zeal in behalf

 

A. ANDERSON

Alwmnt

 

 

 

 

 

 

of Washington and Lee, young in his interests, soundly
progressive in his ideas and a stern champion of deep-
rooted convictions, Major Anderson, now in the eighty-
fourth year of his useful life, may well be termed Dean
of Washington and Lee Alumni.

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WITH THE FACULTY

Dean William H. Moreland and Professor Ray-
mon ‘I. Johnson of the Washington and Lee law
school were in Chicago during the latter part of De-
cember attending the annual meeting of the Associa-
tion of American Law Schools at the Hotel Sherman,
December 30th-January Ist.

Professor W. G. Bean of the Washington and Lee
history department, addressed the Current Events
class of Staunton recently on the subject of “The
Europeanization of Turkey.”

DR. HOWE APPOINTED ON ESSAY
COMMISSION

DEAN OF CHEMISTRY DEPARTMENT APPOINTED BY
PRESIDENT CooLmcrE To TEst CorneD MONEY

Announcement has been made of the recent appoint-
ment of Dr. James Lewis Howe, dean of the depart-
ment of chemistry, as a member of the government
essay commission. ‘The commission is composed of
nine members who meet for three days each year at
the mint in Philadelphia for the purpose of testing
coined money.

Dr. Howe’s appointment to the post was made by
President Coolidge from a list of candidates sub-
mitted by the Treasury department. His name was
proposed by Representative Harry St. George Tucker,
congressman from this district.

The committee convened in Philadelphia on the
10th of February. ‘They examined different coins for
fineness and weight. ‘The committee was organized as
a check upon the mint personnel. Dr. Howe has
served previously on the commission and is thoroughly
familiar with its duties.

“LINCOLN AND LEE” IS NAME OF NEW
COLLEGE

Lincoln and Lee University is the name of the
university which is being established in Kansas City,
Missouri, under the Methodist Episcopal church of
that city.

“The two most outstanding figures in American
history,’ Dr. M. N. Waldrip, pastor who proposed
the name, declared, “are Abraham Lincoln and Rob-
ert E. Lee. They were twin martyrs of the war be-
tween the states.” Kansas City, which is known as
the Heart of America will give the college a three-
fold aspect, said Dr. Waldrip, as “the heart of Lin-
coln, the heart of Lee, and the heart of America will
beat as one.”

Bronze statues of Lee and Lincoln will occupy
prominent places on the campus, it is said.

DR. SHANNON SAILED FOR EUROPE 4
Dr. E. F. Shannon, Professor of English, Mrs. — ;

Shannon and son, Edgar, left Lexington on January

30, for a seven months’ stay in Europe. Two days
later they sailed from New York for Cherbourg,
France. Dr. Shannon’s mother will stay with relatives
in Erie, Pennsylvania, while he is abroad.

Dr. Shannon and his family will proceed from 3
Cherbourg by rail to Italy, where they will remain

until after Easter. During this time they will visit —
most of the important cities of the country, as well
as those of literary and historical interest. On their
return from Italy, they will spend a short time in
Paris, leaving there for a several months’ stay in Eng-
land.

Dr. Shannon will make London his headquarters,
as his chief object in going abroad is to study and do
research work in English Literature at the British
Museum. In this museum he will make a_ special
study of the life and works of Chaucer. While in_
Italy, Dr. Shannon will follow as closely as possible
Chaucer’s journey to that country in the fourteenth
century.

As Dr. Shannon has a leave of absence from the
University until the opening of next session, he will
not return until shortly before that time. During his
absence his classes will be distributed among the other
instructors of English.

H. L. NORWOOD, ’91

Honorable Hal. L. Norwood, 91, of Mena, Arkan-
sas, former Attorney General of that state, is now can-
didate for the office of Associate Justice of the Su-
preme Court. With an admirable record, Mr. Nor-
wood’s appointment should be assured as is shown
from the following excerpt, taken from The Democrat,
January 28, 1926: . |

“Mr. Norwood attended Hendrix College, the Uni-
versity of Arkansas and the law department of Wash-
ington and Lee University. He was married and
elected to the legislature before he was twenty-one. In
1893 he was licensed to practice law, and was elected
prosecuting attorney the following year.

“After serving two terms as prosecuting attorney,
Mr. Norwood moved to Mena in 1898. He has rep-
resented the 22nd and 23rd Senatorial districts in the
State Legislature.

“In 1908 Mr. Norwood was elected Attorney Gen-
eral, receiving the highest number of votes of any oOp-
posed candidate and was elected to a second term with-
out opposition.

During the World War, Mr. and Mrs. Norwood
gave their time and energies in support of the Gov-
ernment and had two sons with the American forces in
France.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

hh
wn

Faculty Introductions, No. II]
x

Dr. B. A. WoorTen, .B.S., E.E., M.A., Px.D.

Professor of Physics
Dr. Wooten, head of the department of Physics, is
He radiates encouragement, cheerful-
ness and hope. Coming to Lexington in 1921 to fill
the chair long and ably held by Dr. W. Le Conte
Stevens, Dr. \Vooten has unreservedly woven the
bright threads of his personality into the fabric of
Washington Lee. and

withal.
Born near Jefferson, Alabama, he was educated in

an optimist.

and He has vision purpose

the public Schools of Demopolis, Alabama, and the
Alabama Polytechnic Institute, from which he gradu-
ated with the degree of B.S. in 1911 and E.E. in 1912.
He then entered Columbia University in 1914 as the
holder of the President’s University Scholarship and,
While at-
tending Columbia he acted as instructor of Physics for
two years at the college of the City of New York.
He received the degree of Master of Arts and Doctor
of Philosophy from Columbia, completing his work in
1915.

Between work for M.A. and Ph.D. Dr. Wooten was
Mater,
Alabama.
After completing his post-graduate education, he re-

later, of the T'yndall Research Fellowship.

associate professor of Physics at his Alma
more familiarly known as “Auburn,” in
turned to Auburn and there served as full professor
in the Physics Department, resigning to accept the call
to W. & L. In between times he did summer work at
the Westinghouse Electric and Manufacturing Com-
pany and was consultant for the Standard Scientific
Company. During the World War he was personal
aid to Thomas A. At present he holds sum-
mer appointments for research work at Yerkes Ob-
servatory.

Edison.

His principal interests are X-Ray work, ionization
and other atomic work, mechanics and astronomy. He
is a member of Phi Kappa Phi, Eta Kappa Nu, Tau
seta Pi, Sigma Xi, and other honorary societies, and

__—
ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

B. A. WoorTen

a member of the American Physical Society. He 1s
married and has one son,—Ben, Jr.

Aside from the pleasant optimism referred to above,
Dr. Wooten’s career at Washington and Lee during
the past four years has been characterized by a strict
attention of the work of his department, a genial, open
method of teaching and a warm and hearty contact
with his students, his fellow Faculty members and his
many local friends. Fully equipped, he fills his posi-
tion at the age of thirty-five with a vigor and en-
thusiasm properly tempered by the antiquity and tra-
ditions of Washington and Lee; a firm believer in her
future and a constant worker for her welfare.

 

January 30, 1926.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

Please accept my thanks for your letter of January
2%h with reference to my subscription to the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE,

This is the best publication of its nature that I have
©ver seen, and by all means I want to have the sub-
scription continued.
$3.50 to Alumni. Incorporated, in payment of a two
year extension of my subscription.

I am enclosing my check for

With kindest personal regards,
Yours very truly,
THos H. Krrxparrick, ’15.

 

Roanoke, Va.,
January 30, 1926.
My dear Mr. Kemp:

[ have your letter of the 29th, and am pleased to
enclose you my check for $3.50 for subscription to the
ALUMNI MAGAZINE, which I have been reading and
which I believe is a distinct asset to our University.

With best regards, I am

Always yours cordially,
Lucian H. Cocke, ’78.

S. B. McPheeters, ‘00, is in the real estate busi-
ness located in Charlotte, N. C.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Bishop James R. Winchester, D.D., °74

The Right Reverend James R. Winchester, D.D.,
sishop of ‘Arkansas, in the Protestant Episcopal
Church, who was born near Annapolis, Maryland, at
“Severn Heights,” has had a busy life and uninter-
rupted work from boyhood.

His first education was in a country school about
two and a half miles from his home, to which he
and his brothers walked five days in the week for
eleven months in the year. Such exercise, with run-
ning and “town ball,” swimming and skating, laid
the foundation for a strong physical constitution.
After this experience he spent one and a half years
at “Tennent School” in Pennsylvania. Later he went
to the Episcopal High School, near Alexandria, Vir-
ginia. ‘There he was prepared for Washington Col-
lege, General Robert E. Lee being the magnet that
drew him. A number of his class-mates went with
him—Lawrence Rust, Kennedy Owen, Lewis Berke-
ley, Tom Purdy, William Walker, “Ned” Lee and
John Lloyd. Rust, Owen and Lloyd were made
members of the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity with
him. “Ned” Lee was his room-mate one year and
Owen part of a session. Rust became a _ distin-
guished professor of Greek at Kenyon College, and
wrote a book on Greek Grammar. He then became
Head Master of the famous Military School at Gam-
bier. Lee, as physician and author, became well
known in Philadelphia. Walker was a clergyman of
the Episcopal Church, and for three years was class-
mate with Winchester at the Theological Seminary
in Virginia. His early death cut short a brilliant ca-
reer. Purdy was well known at the Bar in Virginia ;
Berkeley was the wit of college, popular among pro-
fessors and students. He died of yellow fever in
Holly Springs, Mississippi, soon after leaving the
University. Owen became a merchant.

Mr. Winchester entered College in 1869 under
General Lee. His course of conduct and study was
directed at first by the beloved General. He was
orator of the Washington Literary Society at the In-
termediate Celebration and received the Debater’s
medal at the final celebration in 1874. At that time
he also took the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and
Philosophy, and was awarded the University Prize
Essay. In 1877 he graduated from the Virginia
Theological Seminary and began his ministry in
Richmond, Virginia, as assistant to the famous Dr.
Joshua Peterkin. Mr. Winchester married Miss Eliza
Atkinson Lee of Millwood, Clarke County, Virginia.
He was ordained Deacon in 1877 and Priest in 1878.
He was assistant to Dr. Peterkin at St. James
Church, Richmond, from June 1877 to September
1878, at which time he had charge of St. Philip’s

 

 

 

Brsuop Jas. R. WincuestTErR, 74

Church for Negroes. He has kept up an interest im
work among the Negroes and was instrumental in
having the first Negro Bishop for work among Ne-
groes of the United States consecrated since he has
been Bishop of Arkansas. In Richmond he also be-
came deeply interested in Masonry. He accepted the
Rectorship of the Holy Cross Church, Uniontown,
Alabama, and began his work there November, 1878.
In 1880 he took charge of St. John’s Church, Wythe-
ville, Virginia. During his ministry there he pre-
sented for confirmation the young daughter of Judge
William H. Bolling, Edith, who became the wife of
Woodrow Wilson. During his Rectorship in Wythe-
ville, he became a member of the Independent Order
of Odd Fellows, filling the highest office as Noble
Grand. He also became a Knight Templar.

In 1882 he went to Macon, Georgia, to become
Rector of the historic Christ Church, where he spent
eight years, enjoying especially the friendship’ of his
chum and class-mate, Calder B. Willingham. In
Macon, Mr. Winchester became a Scottish Rite Ma-
son. Having a call from Christ Church, Nashville,
he accepted and entered upon his duties in that par-
ish in 1890. In 1898, Mr. Winchester took charge
of the Ascension Parish, St. Louis, having in his
congregation one of his old College friends and class-
mates, Ashley Cabell, so well known in College days

 

“
;
4

je) at a oes sll ater ee ToS ila sae ‘

i, tl. Me | Dg

soe at

aA

Mee a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

Alumnus Receives Highest Chemistry Honor

S. C. Linn, 99

The Nicholas medal, highest honor awarded to out-
standing chemists in the United States, was publicly
presented to Dr. Samuel C. Lind, ’99, at the meeting
of the New York section of the American Chemical
Society on March Sth. The presentation address was
made by Professor Colin Fink of Columbia Univer-
sity.

Established in 1902 by Dr. Wm. H. Nichols, the
medal “is bestowed upon the investigator in Chemistry
whose contribution published during the current year
is judged to be the most original and stimulative to
further research.” Only seven other scientists have
received the medal since its foundation. ‘The 1925
award was for Dr. Lind’s work on “The Chemical Ac-
tivation of the Alpha Particles.” Dr. Lind is Asso-
ciate Director of the U. S. Fixed Nitrogen Research
Laboratory at Washington, D. C.

Born in McMinville, Tennessee, June 15, 1877, Sam-
uel Colville Lind entered Washington and Lee in 1895.
During his university career he specialized in langu-
ages. He did not take Chemistry until his senior year,
when he took it as a requirement for a degree. That
year he stood first in a class of twenty-seven members,
averaging 9/7 for the year, graduating with an A.B. in
‘99. He was awarded the Chemistry scholarship and
returned the next year, this time to devote himself to
Chemistry. He went the following year to the Massa-
chusetts Institute of Technology, receiving the B.S.
degree in 1902. The University of Leipsig awarded
him the degree of Doctor of Philosophy in 1905, after
which he studied at the University of Paris and at the
Institute of Radium Research in Vienna.

Since completing his courses of study, Dr. Lind has
become an internationally known worker in the sources
of radium and has invented many instruments for the

 

 

S. C. Linn, ’99

 

 

measurement and study of that substance. He origi-
nated the ionization theory of the chemical effects of
radium and is the author of numerous papers, etc.,
on the subject.

The award of the highly prized Nichols Medal to Dr.
Lind comes as a just recognition of a career devoted
to research and the advancement of science. It also
reflects honor to Washington and Lee and the Chem-
istry department which “discovered” the fertile seed
of genius in the young student from Tennessee.

 

 

as one of the most courtly gentlemen on the campus.
In 1906, he went to Memphis, Tennessee, and be-
came Rector of Calvary Church. Memphis sent

many students to Washington and Lee. He recalls
the gifted George Peters, medalist of the Graham
Society, and Alston Boyd, of the Washington Liter-
ary Society—both graduates in Arts. Butler Jack,
Walter Gregory, Irby Boyd, Tom, Dick and Harry
Allen were also associated with Mr. Winchester’s
College days. In 1911 he was consecrated Bishop
and has since September 29, 1911, worked as Bishop
in Arkansas.

He was elected a charter member of the Phi Beta
Kappa of Washington and Lee. He holds the office
of Grand Prelate of the Knights Templar of Ar-
kansas, which he held in Georgia. He is also Grand

Prelate of the Red Cross of Constantine of the
United States and recently was honored with elec-
tion and initiated Knight Commander of the Court
of Honor and presented with a beautiful jewel of
the order as a token of esteem by his brethren.

His travels have been in Europe, Mexico, Pales-
tine, Egypt, Turkey and all sections of our own land.

“Jim” Winchester, as Mr. Frank Glasgow knows
him, still delights in his recollection of Washington
and Lee, where the name of Robert E. Lee runs as
a golden thread through every memory. He says
that Harry Tucker, Will McPheeters, Charles Graves,
“Dod” Greene, Irby Boyd, “Dick” Allen, Frank
Glasgow and a few others are left to transmit the
loftiest ideals that any institution has ever be-
queathed, namely, the ideals of the honor system.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

JUDGE McDERMOTT ADDRESSES LAW
STUDENTS

If the reaction of the law students is a proper cri-
terion, the address of Judge Charles J. McDermott,
New York attorney and W. & L. Trustee, before the
law school on January 18th, was the most interesting
and beneficial on the extra-curricula law school pro-
gram. Coming from a lawyer who had weathered the
storm, Judge McDermott’s remarks upon the actual
work of law practice, rich with anecdotes from experi-
ence, was of particular value to the rising barristers
of Tucker Hall.

Judge McDermott, in Lexington for the annual meet-
ing of the W. & L. Board of Trustees, had been in-
vited by Dean Moreland to address the entire law stu-
dent body. He spoke in a convincing and vigorous
way, typical of the story teller rather than of the
pleader before the bar. Interspersed with humorous
anecdotes, the speaker shattered some of the precon-
ceived beliefs that most young lawyers have about the
practice of their profession. For them he substituted a
sane and practicable outline for the young lawyers on
the threshold of a professional career.

Judge McDermott is attorney for the Doremus Ks-
tate, a Trustee of Washington and Lee and of the
College of the City of New York, maintains a large
office at 165 Broadway, New York City, and has an
extensive practice in the great American metropolis and
surrounding counties. He is an ardent supporter of
Washington and Lee in everything concerning her wel-
fare. Though not an alumnus, he says that he is will-
ing to match his loyalty and affection for the Univer-
sity with that of any of her graduate alumni. A big
order but, to one knowing Judge McDermott, under-
standable.

HAVILAND STEVENSON, ’84

Graduating with the law class of 1884, Haviland
Stevenson commenced his practice of law in South
Carolina where he continued in this profession for six
years. In 1893 he removed to Washington, D. C., and
was there connected with the law department of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and associated with
the Department of Justice.. From time to time, he was
sent out to assist, in certain cases, the District attorneys
of northern New York and Vermont.

In 1900 he became associated with the firm of Silver,
Burdett and Company, one of the largest textbook
publishers in the country. From that time his services
have proven so indispensible that he has steadily risen
to more responsible positions, being elected general
manager of the company in 1905 and in 1910, added to
his duties as general manager, he was elected vice pres-
ident. Four years later he became president, which
office he holds today,

 

    
 

-___

*

Mm. From the library of

~D

   

tp te
:

. x Se kK ,
Lynwood R, Holmes:

.

   

 

 

 

 

 

IN PANAMA NEWS

The following remarkable record of Washington —
and Lee alumni was taken from a January issue of
the Panama, R. P.: =

“There is a University in the United States, that

has not averaged a student attendance since the Civil

War of over three hundred men. During the World
War this institution furnished many men to the
great cause. In the city of Washington, D. C., dur-
ing the years 1914-1919, this institution was repre-
sented by the:

“Secretary of War; Ambassador to Great Britain;

Ambassador to Italy; Justice of the Supreme Court;

Solicitor-General of the United States; Assistant At-
torney-General of the United States; two judges of
the United States Food Administration; Joint Chair-
man of the National War Labor Board; Secretary of
the National War Labor Board; Chief of Legal Di-
vision, Bureau of War Risk Insurance; President of
the American Section of the Inter-parliamentary Un-
ion; Chairman of the Senate Committee on Military
Affairs; Chairman of the Senate Committee on Bank-
ing and Currency; Chairman of the Senate Commit-
tee on Mines and Mining; Chairman of the House —
Committee on Foreign Relations; General Council of
the United States Food Administration ;

“This by no means exhausts the list of those who
served in Washington, to say nothing of other parts
of the world during the war.

“The name of this institution is Washington and —

lee University of Lexington, Virginia.”

Dr. William Allan, ’02, is a physician, practicing
in Charlotte, N. C.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE . 29

Bookplates, Engineering and Shipping

IL.yNwoop R. Hoimes, ’00
(By Verbon E. Kemp)

| frst met Mr. Holmes during the Endowment Cam-
paign in 1922, He was then stationed at Newport
News, Virginia, where he was manager of that branch
of Furness, Withy & Co., Ltd. He received me cor-
dially in his handsome office, listened to my plea for
Washington and Lee, and put me off with the state-
ment that he would like to talk the matter over with
his wife. To me that was an old stall. But Mr.
Holmes said, “I was born and raised in Lexington, and
so was my wife. I am sure that we will want to do
something for Washington and Lee.’ There was a sin-
cerity in his statement that belied my doubts. When
[ called the next day his subscription card was already
filled in for a liberal amount.

Since that time I have been with him often, have vis-
ited him in his home at Philadelphia and have greeted
him in Lexington on his occasional visits. From inti-
mate association I learned the depth of his affection
for Washington and Lee. It is portrayed on the book-
plate of his well chosen library. The plate, which
appears herewith, is the most attractive I have ever
seen. The view of the Washington Building and the
colonnade from the campus is an endearing reminder of
the beauties of Alma Mater most appropriate for the
pages of a college man’s best friends, his books.
“Buck” Holmes, as he is familiarly known to his
friends, was born in Lexington and received his pre-
paratory education at the Lexington High School, from
which he received in 1896 the first scholarship awarded
by \Vashington and Lee to the local public school.
During his term at Washington and Lee he received
the franklin Society scholarship, the physics scholar-
ship, and the Robinson medal in mathematics and sci-
ence. He graduated with a B.S. degree in 1900.

For seven years after graduation he was engaged in
various civil, mining and structural engineering proj-
ects in Virginia, West Virginia, Porto Rico and Penn-
Sylvania. Early in 1908 he entered the coal business at
Newport News, Virginia. Nine years later he entered
the Newport News office of Furness, Withy & Co.,
Ltd., one of the largest firms of British steamship own-
ers and operators. He was made manager of this
branch in 1921.

it was during this trying period, 1917-1921, that
Mr. Holmes rendered his greatest service. His firm
acted as U. §. agents for the British government.
Hampton Roads, the port of Newport News, became
second only to the port of New York City in war ac-
tivities. Mr. Holmes was actively connected with the
heavy shipments of war supplies to the allies and with
the movement of troops and supplies for the A. E. F.
through his port.

 

 

 

 

L. R. Hotmes, ‘00

lt was logical then, for his firm to promote him to
the managership of their Philadelphia House, in 1923,
a field of greater responsibility and labor. Only two
years later a full page photograph of Mr. Holmes ap-
peared in the trade magazine, “Commerce and Indus-
try,” under the heading “Personal glimpses of men
who are contributing to the greatness of Philadelphia.”
He is a member of the Executive Committee of the
Port of Philadelphia Ocean Traffic Bureau and of the
Board of Directors of the Philadelphia Maritime Ex-
change.

In March 1918, Mr. Holmes married Miss Elmer
Crigler, a cousin of Henry Boley, ever popular Lexing-
tonian. They make their home at No. 235 South 15th
Street, Philadelphia. His firm has recently moved its
Philadelphia offices to the New Public Ledger Building.

On a bitter cold day last fall, I attended the Prince-
ton-Washington and Lee game with Mr. and Mrs.
Holmes. They were on hand to see the triumph of the
Generals over Virginia on November 7th. Whenever
possible they are present to support the Blue and White
and at all times we are confident of their constructive,
progressive endeavor in behalf of their joint love—
Washington and Lee.

A. W. McCain, °14, is sub-manager of the First
National Bank of Boston, Buenos Aires branch. ‘He
was married to Marion Verisonhaler, of Little Rock,
Arkansas, on April 14, 1924.

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, '02

Although still a comparatively young man, Dr. J.
Morrison Hutcheson, ’02, physician of Richmond, Va.,
has brought many honors to both his own name and
that of his Alma Mater.

After leaving Washington and Lee he taught in a
boys preparatory school for three years. He then at-
tended the Medical College of Virginia in Richmond
from 1905 to 1909 where he received his medical de-
gree. After doing a year of interne work at the John-
ston-Willis Hospital, he took post-graduate work at the
Johns Hopkins and Harvard School of Medicine. Re-
turning to Richmond he engaged in the practice of in-
ternal medicine and was secured as a teacher in the
Medical College of Virginia.

During the World War he enlisted and was commis-
sioned to the rank of First Lieutenant in the Medical
Corps, was promoted to Captain and a short time later
was raised to the rank of Major. While overseas he
served as Chief of the Medical Service Base Hospital
No. 60, functioning as an evacuation hospital in the St.
Mihiel and Argonne offensives at the time of the heav-
iest fighting in that sector.

At the close of the war he returned to Richmond
and was made Professor of Therapeutics at the Med-
ical College of Virginia, where he is attending phy-
sician to the Hospital Division of that school as well
as attending physician at the Johnston-Willis Hospital.

In June 1921, he married Margaret Erskine Miller.
To them have been born two sons and a daughter, and
Mr. Hutcheson proudly states that the two sons are
“prospective Washington and Lee students.”

 

ae

 

 

 

Dr. J. Morrison Hutcueson, ‘02

 

 

Dr. Hutcheson was made an alumni member of Phi
Beta Kappa in 1922. For a number of years he served
as President of the Richmond W, and L. Alumni As-
sociation and has always been active in furthering the
interests of his Alma Mater in the State Capital.

 

 

 

H. ST. GEORGE TUCKER, ’75, HONORED

A special distinction was accorded Congressman
Harry St. George Tucker recently by the house of dele-
gates. Mr. Tucker was in Richmond on a visit and
called at the Capitol building to greet his friends.
When he entered the chamber of the lower branch of
the general assembly he was recognized by Speaker
Ozlin, who named a committee to escort him to the
speaker’s stand where he was graciously presented to
the assembled delegates. Mr. Tucker delivered a brief
address and congratulated the members upon their de-
feat of the child labor amendment. It was not so much
the speech, as it was the suspension of business to do
honor to a distinguished son of the Old Dominion that
was pleasing to the friends of Mr. Tucker.

Of Mr. Tucker’s public record the Louisville, Ken-
tucky Courier Journal voiced the following apprecia-
tion in a recent editorial entitled “Tucker of Virginia”:

“Quite apart from the merits, or demerits, of the
Tucker resolution recently defeated overwhelmingly in
the house of representatives—a resolution that was in-

tended to prohibit the practice of deceit in law-enforce-
ment—it is easy to understand the highmindedness that
conceived it.

“Mr. Tucker is a Virginian. He reflects the type
etched by Owen Wister in an American novel—the
type of the valiant, unsordid gentleman. Anything low
or mean—anything savoring of deception in human re-
lationship—is alien to Mr. Tucker’s spirit. His thought
of America is what Wade Hampton’s was forty years
ago of the Palmetto state—South Carolina has been
governed by gentlemen. If the time has come when to
do an ungentlemanly thing is required to get or hold
public office, I care to have nothing to do with her
government.’

“Tt was Mr. Tucker who voted against the increase
of his salary as congressman. It was he who has re-
fused to accept the increase even though it was ap-
proved almost unanimously by congress. ‘The honesty
of the man, his unselfishness, his pride in ‘Virginia’ and
‘America’ are so intense that he is moved when ideals
that rule his own personal conduct are not always en-
forced in his country’s government.”

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

“Tubby” McNeil, 03

With an unfilled vacancy in the chair of Church His-
tory and Pastoral Theology the authorities of the Co-
tumbia ‘Theological Seminary called Rev. C. C. Me-
Neil, ‘03, as acting professor in that department.
Prior to that appointment, Mr. McNeil was of the
field staff of the Southern Presbyterian Church As-
sembly, engaged in educational and ministerial rélief
work, with headquarters at Savannah, Georgia.

While in college, “Tubby” McNeil, as he was popu-
larly known, was captain of the football team of "02—
the days of the flying wedge and other machine for-
mations—and was on the baseball and gym teams. He
was a member of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity and
valedictorian of the class of ‘03 in which he received
his A.B. degree.

He then taught for two years at the school for the
blind, at Staunton, Virginia, became a private tutor
ina prominent family of Wilmington, N. C., travelled
abroad for a while and took up religious work as As-
sistant Pastor and young people’s work Director of the
Independent Presbyterian Church of Savannah, Geor-
gia. A year later he entered the Y. M. C. A. organi-
zation, serving for one year as State Student Secretary
for Virginia and three years as Secretary of the Uni-
versity of Texas. Feeling a definite call to the min-
istry, he entered the Princeton Theological Seminary
in 1910 and graduated with the degree of B.D. from
the Theological Seminary of Kentucky in 1913. After
two years as assistant pastor of the Second Presbyte-
rian Church of Louisville, Kentucky, he filled impor-
tant pastorates at Spring Hill, Fort Royal and Gallatin,
Tennessee.

During the World War Mr. McNeil entered into the
religious work of the Army training camps as Religi-

 

C, CC. MeNer., ‘03

ous Secretary of Camp Jackson, Columbia, 5. C., and
Camp Secretary at Charleston, S$. C. At Charleston
he had charge of five buildings and employed thirty-
seven secretaries. Afterward he returned to his pulpit
at Gallatin, Tennessee, and was called to the Presby-
terian Church of East Dallas, Texas, which charge he
filled until 1924.

After the movement to transfer the Columbia Theo-
logical Seminary to Atlanta, Georgia, began, Mr. Mc-
Neil gave up pastoral work for the more difficult task
of aiding the financial campaign for building and equip-
ping the plant. Now, as a member of the Faculty of
the Seminary, he becomes more closely allied with the
progress and development of that important institution.

 

 

GILLIAM LITERARY CONTEST

Mr. Thomas W. Gilliam, ’19, offers again this year
prizes, amounting to $25 each, for the best poem, the
best one-act play, and the best short story written by
a Washington and Lee student.

Entries in this contest must be handed in by April
L. Manuscripts should be typewritten, left flat, and
signed with a pen-name only. ‘The writer’s real name
should be handed in in a sealed envelope with the pen-
Name on the outside. Manuscripts may be handed to
any member of the English department.

A student may hand in manuscripts for all three
Prizes and as many as he wishes, but no one student
May receive more than two prizes in the same year.
In addition, no student may be awarded more than
two prizes in the same field, and he may not receive
more than three prizes in all.

Shorter, Ala., Feb. 5, 1926.
My dear Kemp:

Replying to your letter advising that I owe sub-
scription for the ALUMNI MAGAZINE, | hasten to ad-
vise you that I do not intend to do without the Mac-
AZINE as long as it is published. I am enclosing check
for $10.50 for four years subscription to MAGAZINE
and for Directory.

With personal regards, I remain,

‘ Very truly yours,
S. M. Enceinarprt, ’09.

Mr. and Mrs. William M. McElwee, ’79, left Lex-
ington February 19th for a trip of two months. They
will go from here to Gastonia, N. C. Their trip will
include New Orleans, Palestine, Texas, and Cali-
fornia.

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

RAYFORD ALLEY, ’10, REPORTS CONDI-
TIONS IN TURKEY

A review of the business interests favoring the rati-
fication of the Lausanne pact by Rayford W. Alley,
10, was reported in the January 4th Paris Edition of
the New York Herald. Mr. Alley, a keen student of
Near East affairs, is treasurer of the council in Turk-
ish-American Relations. He has been abroad for
sometime studying conditions. In his interview on the
Lausanne Treaty, Mr. Alley said:

“Every representative of American business, saediaes
ing the great corporations operating in petroleum, dried
fruits, tobacco, agricultural machinery, etc., is in favor
of the ratification of the treaty. The Near East Re-
lief, through its authorized spokesman, is asking for the
early ratification. very American educational insti-
tution in Turkey is doing the same thing, as are the
religious and church organizations.

“The treaty should be ratified because our own trade
interests lie in the approval of the Lausanne compact
and the early resumption of trade relations.

“It is not the time to discuss the atrocities that may
have been committed during the past fifty years, be-
cause the present Government of Turkey is not re-
sponsible for them, and it certainly is not up to us to
interfere with their self-government. They have do-
mestic problems which they must handle in their own
way, and I for one would not respect them if they tol-
erated our Government or any other Government’s in-
terference in their own domestic and internal affairs.”

 

January 4, 1926.
THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE,
Lexington, Va.
Gentlemen :

Some few weeks ago I received a copy of the Au-
gust number of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE and it is need-
less to say that I enjoyed reading it’ immensely. I
wonder if it would be possible for me to secure all
of these magazines beginning with your first copy
down to the present time, and if so, please advise me
the amount necessary to send and I shall be very glad
to forward you a check for same at once. I feel that
I have missed a great deal by not subscribing for the
MAGAZINE earlier, but really did not know that such a
magazine was being published until I received the
August number hereinabove referred to. If it is im-
possible to get the back numbers, then J shall want to
subscribe for the ALUMNI MAGaAzINne beginning with
your next number. :

May I not hear from you?

Yours very truly,
H. J. Kiser, 716.

Rev. C. J. Boppell, ’95, is Minister of the West
Side Presbyterian Church of Seattle, Washington.

 

  
  
    

MILTON B. ROGERS, ’15

Since leaving Washington and Lee in 1915, Milton”
B. Rogers has pursued a course of creditable activity, —
occupying at present the position of Assistant Branch —
Manager of the Studebaker Corporation of America, —
with offices in New York City. aa

Kmployed first by the National City Bank of New
York, he was sent as their representative to Petrograd —
and Moscow in Russia. During the World War he epn-_
listed in the service, with the rank of Captain of inl |
fantry in the U. S. Army. He was three times deco- _
rated for bravery while in France, receiving the British ;
Military Cross, the French Croix de Guerre and the —
Russian Order St. Ann. Following his discharge he —
returned to the United States in 1919, where he re-_
sumed his former position with the National City Bank. a
Soon after, he was married to Miss Lucile McWil- —
liams of Meridian, Mississippi, and following his mar-
riage he was again sent to represent his corporation in 2
Brussels, Belgium, returning to New York in 1923, d

In March, 1924, Mr. Rogers accepted his present
position with the Studebaker Corporation of America, a
with whom he is now associated. ;

 

The following extract was taken from a letter re- _
ceived by the Alumni office from Mr. John M. Glenn, —
79, of New York City:

“I congratulate you on the last number of the x
ALUMNI MaGazine. I am surprised that you can
get so much material together within a quarter. May —
I suggest that it would be a convenience to your read- a
ers if items were arranged chronologically? An —
alumnus is naturally interested especially in the peo- —
ple who are his contemporaries. A chronological ar-_
rangement would save the time and trouble of run- —
ning over the whole list and just finding one or two _
and sometimes no names.

“Sincerely yours,

J. M. Grenn, ’79,

 

University, Alabama,
January 29, 1926.
My dear Kemp:

[ am enclosing subscription to the ALUMNI MAGA-
ZINE. I enjoy reading each issue, and I am convinced
that for many of the alumni the publication of the
magazine is the most effective way of keeping fresh
the memory of college days.

With every good wish,

Faithfully yours,
GrorGE H. DENNY.

 

Al E. Creigh, ’22, is practicing law in Grand June-
tion, Colorado, having graduated from the Univer-
sity of Colorado last spring. He is married and has a
little boy, Al Creigh III, who is two years old,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 33

F. P. Guthne, ‘II

(By C. E. BRANHAM, Lee School of Journalism)

On many a cold star-lit night we have heard the
call letters WRC float out on the air from the loud
speaker of our radio. Perhaps few Alumni in hearing
WRC announced realized that the one having super-
vision over this station is a fellow Alumnus.

This is only one of many activities in which F. P.
Guthrie, ’11, is engaged. As District Manager for the
Radio Corporation of America in Washington, D. C.
he has supervision of Broadcasting Station WRC as
well as RCA telegraph office in Washington. ‘The sale
and repair of RCA equipment in Maryland, District of
Columbia and Virginia is also under his supervision.
Mr. Guthrie is actively engaged in the business life of
Washington. He is a member of several Clubs there,

including: ‘The Washington Rotary, Army and Navy,

and Advertising Clubs. In the radio world he is affili-
ated with the Radio Merchants Association of Wash-
ington, and the Institute of Radio Engineers.

After receiving his A. B. from Washington and Lee
in 1911 Mr. Guthrie entered the University of Vir-
ginia. While there he held the Vanderbilt Fellowship
in Astronomy.

After teaching at Miami Military Institute, German-
town, Ohio tor a year he accepted a position as as-
sistant Professor of Physics at The Citadel, Charles-
ton, South Carolina, which position he held until 1917.

In 1915 he was Commissioned a Lieutenant in the
South Carolina Naval Militia, and upon the outbreak
of war was stationed at Charleston Navy Yard. Here
he remained for only two months, being transferred to
the office of Director of Naval Communications at the
Navy Department, Washington, D. C., where he served
until 1919,

In 1919 he was placed on inactive duty in the Naval
Reserve Force, which work he continued in civilian

Henry N.
sistant General Solicitor in the legal department of the
Clinchfield Railway Company at Johnson City, Tenn-
essee.

Mr, ]

r JC : ; “Tr
of 1910, where he soon became active in campus activi-
ties.

darker, ‘14 was recently promoted as-

arker entered Washington and Lee in the Fall

During his four years in school here he held
many student offices, and played left-end on the Var-
sity He was a mem-
vamma Delta fraternity, the Cotillion Club,

In his Senior year he was elected presi-

toot-ball team for three years.
ber of Phi (
and Sigma.

de PL:
lent of his class. He also served as basket-ball man-

ager for one vear.

| After receiving his A.B. in 1914 he accepted a posi-
tie Bae uked : : 11;
M as coach and instructor at Bingham Military

 

 

 

 

F. P. Gururre, ‘11

 

capacity as Manager of the Radio Department of the
United States Shipping Board.
plete charge of all radio activities of the Shipping
Board. He went as a representative of the Board to
the International Technical Radio Conference which
was held in Paris in 1921. In 1923 he resigned from
the Shipping Board to become District Manager for the
Radio Corporation of America, in which work he is.
now engaged.

This involved com-

Mr. Guthrie is a Mason, and was a member of Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity at Washington and Lee.

 

 

School at Asheville, North Carolina. From there he
went to Columbia and entered the Law School. The
war forced him to leave Columbia however, to enter
the Second Officers Training Camp at Key West,
Florida. While stationed there he served as a lieuten-
ant in the Heavy Artillery and Instructor and Judge
Advocate.

At the close of the war he re-entered Columbia to
resume his study of law and secured his LL.B. in 1920.

After practicing law in New York City for one year
he entered the legal department of the Clinchfield Rail-
way Company, where he is at present assistant General
Solicitor.

In 1923 he married Miss Catherine McKinney,
daughter of Chief Justice McKinney of the Supreme
Court fo Tennessee. Their only child is Henry Nevis,
Ir.

34 : THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

War Letters of Kiffin Rockwell, ’1 3”

Introductory Memoir

By Pau A. RocKweE Lt, ’10

Kiffin Yates Rockwell was born September 20,
1892, at Newport, Tennessee, a picturesque little town
spread out along the Pigeon River, in the edge of the
Appalachian Mountains. I well remember the first
time | saw him. I was about four years old, and my
sister and I had been sent to spend the night with
some little friends. When we returned home in the
morning, our father took us by the hand and led us
into our mother’s bedroom to see “the present Dr.
Snoddy had brought during the night.” As I looked
at the tiny red mite my feelings were of pride and
pleasure that I had a brother.

When Kiffin was within a few days of being one
year old, our father died of typhoid fever, which was
very prevalent in Newport that year. With our
mother, we three children spent the following winter
at our maternal grandparents’ place in South Carolina.

Kiffin, being then the youngest grandchild, was his’

grandmother's favorite, and until he was _ fourteen
years old, she insisted on his spending at least half of
his time with her. Usually he spent the winters in
South Carolina, where the climate during that season
was mild and agreeable, and his summers in the cooler,
forest-clad mountains of East Tennessee.

The outdoor life on his grandfather’s cotton and to-
bacco plantation was wonderful for the growing
youngster, and did much to mould his character.

Best of all for Kiffin was his grandfather, a South-
erner of the old school, who had fought through the
Confederate War from the beginning until the end.
With Lee at Appomattox, in April, 1865, “Marse
Enoch,” as the Negroes called him, had mounted upon
his horse when news of the surrender spread through
the ragged little army, and had ridden away to his
South Carolina home without waiting to be paroled.
It was his boast that he had never surrendered to the
“Yankees,” had never taken the oath of allegiance to
the Federal Government, and that he was “unrecon-
structed.”

From his grandfather Kiffin heard stories of war,
in camp and in battle. ‘The little boy would listen for
hours to his grandfather, his great-uncle ‘“’lommie,”
and other elderly men of the neighborhood recount-
ing their battles, their marches, their sufferings from
hunger and cold, and their disappointment and grief
over the “Lost Cause,” and their struggles after. His
imagination and his ambition were constantly fired
with desire to shine upon the battlefield for a worthy
purpose. He learned also how to handle men. ‘The

*The first of the excerpts from- the Memorial Edition re-
published in the Alumni Magazine by permission.

Negroes who outnumbered the white people at least 5
five to one in this particular part of South Carolina,
under the authority of such men as Enoch Shaw
Ayres, had gotten over their unrest and unruliness of —
the years immediately following the war. The “had —
niggers” and the “carpet-baggers’” had been driven
from the country almost two decades before Kiffin was
born, and the blacks remaining, all ex-slaves or chil-_ a
dren ex-slaves, were fairly industrious and polite,
Kiffin knew how to handle a gun before he was ten —
years old, and spent many hours in the woods and —
swamps shooting bobwhites, hawks, rabbits, squirrels, | 2
etc. He was accounted a good shot, and was an ex- _
cellent fisherman, learning from his grand-father how _
to hook and land trout, bass, “red-breasts,”” and other —
excellent and gamey fish. For his books he did not |
especially care, although he learned his lessons well —
and quickly, having a keen and clever mind. His
favorite reading were books of travel and adventure, _ $
and he fairly revelled in the Henty Books and the —
stories of Captain Mayne Reid. But his best hours —
were those spent out in the open; he was a good swim-
mer and an excellent horseman; he was especially F
fond of mounting a wild and unruly Porto Rican pony —
we had at Newport.
When Kiffin was fourteen, his family went to live —
at Asheville, not a great distance from Newport, across —
the border of North Carolina. Asheville was at a
higher altitude, a larger and more healthy city, with —
excellent schools. Kiffin attended the Asheville High —
School in 1906-1907-1908, but being intent upon a
military career, entered the famous Virginia Military —
Institute, at Lexington, Virginia, in the fall of 1908.
He enjoyed the atmosphere of this great school, with
its memories of Stonewall Jackson, and other of ©
America’s most wonderful military chiefs, despite the —
strictness of the discipline and the severity of the haz- —
ing, which at that time was particularly bad. a
The summer of 1909, Kiffin received an appoint- .
ment to the United States Naval Academy at Annap- —
olis, having decided that there was more chance for —
action in the Navy than in the Army, and in the fall —
went up to Annapolis and entered “Bobby” Werntz’s
Preparatory School, to take a preliminary course for —
the Naval Academy entrance examinations. Here he —
met many other boys, also preparing to enter the Acad-
emy, and a number of Naval Cadets. ‘Talking with —
these new acquaintances, he ‘got the impression that it —
would be many a day before the United States Navy —
would see action, and caring nothing for naval or army
life in time of peace, he wrote and asked me to try to —
influence our mother to let him resign his appointment —
and join me at Washington and Lee University.
Our mother readily consented, saying that she only —
wanted Kiffin to do that which would make him the —

  
   
   

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

most happy and the most useful in life, so about the
end of November, 1909, he arrived at Lexington, and
matriculated at Washington and Lee University. He
was initiated into the Sigma Phi Epsilon fraternity,
which counted amongst its members most of the men
from Asheville, at Washington and Lee. By a sad
coincidence, the only two other members of the Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of Sigma Phi Epsilon to fall in
the Great War were also from Asheville, and had been
intimate friends of Kiffin at the high school there;
Lawrence Laughran, killed July 28, 1918, as a lieuten-
ant-pilot attached to the Royal Flying Corps, and
Fagg Malloy, cavalry-lieutenant, who died October
22, 1918, during the terrible influenza epidemic in
France.

Kiffin’s life at’ Washington and Lee was a very
happy and care-free one. He was bright enough not
to have to grind in order to learn his lessons, and had
plenty of time to mix with the other students. A
good judge of human nature, he did not quickly make
friends with people and accept them into his intimacy ;
but he was never discourteous to anyone, and when
he deemed someone worthy, he was a real and devoted
friend. ‘Therefore, he was very popular and well
liked among his fellows.

Here again at Washington and Lee, Kiffin found
everything to inspire his liking and desire for military
life. As was the case with the Virginia Military In-
stitute, the graduates and students of Washington
College had distinguished themselves upon the battle
field, and had left many lasting memories at Lexing-
ton, and General Lee seemed ever present there. Per-
haps the only study in which Kiffin had a real inter-
est was history.

As I look back, it is clear to me that Kiffin was all
this while only unconsciously marking time. He was
in school more from family habit and tradition than
from a real desire to follow classical studies. He usu-
ally had a far-away, dreamy look in his eyes, and often
seemed to be living in another world from that sur-
rounding him.

In 1912, he decided to see something of the world,
at least that part of it lying inside the boundaries of
the United States and Canada. He made a trip to the
Pacific Coast and then through Western Canada,
thinking perhaps he might find a place where he would
like to settle and make his home. ‘Next he spent sev-
eral months in San Francisco, and he came very near
Stopping there. At this period of his life, Kiffin
liked to appear older than he really was, and never
admitted that he was younger than at least twenty-
five. He started in San Francisco an advertising
agency, and had at one time working for him some
twenty people, all of them considerably older than
himself, Many of them probably would have been
much humiliated had they known they were taking or-
ders from a mere lad of nineteen years !

But in spite of his youthful and impatient idea that
the Southern people were old-fashioned and “‘set in
their ways” the urge to come back home to the South
was always strong within Kiffin. So in the fall of
1913, he returned to Asheville and spent a few months
with his mother there. On New Year’s Day of 1914,
he joined me at Atlanta, Georgia, where I was then
living. I shall never forget that morning when Kiffin
arrived. I had been up late the evening before, prop-
erly ushering in the New Year, and was asleep at the
Georgia Tech chapter house of our fraternity when I
was awakened by the feeling that someone was watch-
ing me. I opened my eyes, and there stood Kiffin at
the foot of my bed, with an amused expression on his
face. I was amazed to see how tall he had grown; he
was then a little over six feet two inches, having
grown fully three inches since I had seen him.

We spent the day talking over anything and every-
thing. I was full of curiosity as to his impressions of
the places he had seen, and Kiffin wanted to know if I
really liked Atlanta well enough to make it my home.
We agreed never again to part company, but to live
together, and began making plans for leaving the fra-
ternity house and finding a suitable bachelor’s apart-
ment.

We were in Asheville with our mother for a few
weeks in June and early July. When we returned to
Atlanta, the war clouds were already gathering over
Europe. We had an apartment in West Peachtree
Street, with a fairly efficient Negro boy as cook, but-
ler, and general factotum. The last Sunday in July,
we sat for a long time at the lunch table with two
other Atlantans of about our age. Kiffin and I talked
of the war which seemed inevitable, and of how in-
teresting it would be to go over and fight for France.
Both of us were fairly well read in French history,
especially that of the “Ancient Regime’ and of the
Napoleonic Wars. We did not admire the French
Revolution, and knew little of the history of the coun-
try during the nineteenth century, except the Franco-
Prussian War, about which the stories of Guy de
Maupassant and others had made our blood boil.

Our two friends, nice young Americans of good
education, but small imagination outside their business,
agreed mildly that it would be a great thing to fight
against the Germans, and turned the conversation to
the hands they had held in their last poker game.

After lunch Kiffin called me aside and very seri-
ously told me that he had been thinking a great deal
during the past several days about the coming war, and
that if I really wanted to go to France and join the
French forces, his mind was fully made up to go.
Talking together, our minds became more and more
inflamed at the thought of what a general European
war must be, and of the possibility of our country be-
ing drawn into it. Kiffin felt that it could not escape
developing into a world war, and we then and there

36 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

decided to offer our services to our favorite among the
nations—France.

Inquiries the next morning at the steamship ticket
office in Atlanta brought the information that few
steamers were leaving for Europe, that the British and
French liners had put back into American ports, after
being chased by German war vessels, and that it would
be difficult to get aboard at that time. There was an
American Line vessel, the St. Paul, sailing from New
York on August 7th, however, and places might be
had for us on board this boat, although it was sure to
be crowded with people transferring from foreign
ships.

We begged the steamship agent to telegraph to New
York to see if berths could be had for us. A favora-
ble reply was received on Wednesday, and, without
waiting for a reply from the Irench Consul-General
at New Orleans, we packed our belongings, leaving
most of them behind, turned the apartment over to
friends, and leaving faithful black Jim—who predicted
that he would never see us again,—in tears, we took
the Thursday afternoon express for New York.

When the St. Paul steamed out from New York
harbor the following morning, we were aboard. Kif-
fin’s letters which follow tell the story of the remain-
der of his life far better than anyone else could write
it.

The clarity and simplicity of style of these letters
is remarkable when the circumstances under which
they were written are considered. Many were hastily
scrawled with a pencil at odd moments snatched from
Kiffin’s duties in the trenches or in the air. Few were
written under anything approaching normal conditions.
They are given here without changes or corrections,
although several to me were penned in moments of
impatience or irritation, and express opinions or criti-
cisms that Kiffin would have disavowed after calm
reflection. Kiffin was not writing for publication, and
he sometimes “let himself go.”’

(To be continued )

 

“Except that I am leaving in a few weeks for a long
absence in Europe and will have no address in Amer-
ican, | would subscribe for the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.
As soon as I return I shall do so because I am de-
lighted to find that so well edited a periodical is pre-
serving not only the contemporaneous history, but the
past history of dear old Washington and Lee. If
you could save my numbers for me and place them in
a pigeon-hole to be delivered in the future on call, I
would gladly subscribe now because I want the work
of Dr. Ruffner, the first chapter of which is published
in this issue. Would it be burdening you too much
to do this?

“With thanks again,

Sincerely yours,
Francis T. A. JUNKIN.

PROF. R. H. TUCKER PROPOSES REFORK
IN GOVERNMENT

“Virginia Proposes Simplification and Economy jn
Government” is the title of an article contributed to
the November issue of the National Municipal Re-
view by R. H. Tucker, professor in the school of pm
merce and administration at Washington and Lee.

The article reviews briefly the movement for — J
ministrative reform in Virginia and explains the pro-
posals and recommendations of the recent Commission
on Simplification and Economy of State and Local —
Government of which Professor Tucker was a mem-
ber. 3

Several of these proposals have already been
adopted. ‘The adoption of others, it is pointed out 4
would result in increased efficiency in government and_
at the same time bring about a large annual saving to”
the state. ‘a

Professor ‘Tucker declared that the Virginia state
government spends annually about $30,000,000.00 and —
that through the proposed simplification and econon y
approximately ten per cent could be saved. }

   
 
   
   
    
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
     
   
  
    

 

American Consular Service.

Loanda, Angola, January 16, 1926,

Alumni, Incorporated, “

Lexington, Virginia, U. S. A. q
Gentleman :

I am enclosing herewith the blank requested to bel |
filled out in order to make the information in the —
Alumni Bulletin up-to-date regarding my actions and ‘
whereabouts. %

I wish to take this opportunity to let you know that —
one of my chief interests out here, so near to the can-— ;
nibals, is the reading of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE, as it ©
is always full of news that is of interest regarding —
Washington & Lee and its alumni. I certainly ee
that the good work done on this publication will be
continued.

With my best wishes for your success, I am

Faithfully yours,
Francis H. Srytes, ‘18.

: ~
re

 

Musical Courier Company, Inc.,
New York City,
Feb. 3, 1926.
Dear Kemp: a
Sorry I absolutely forgot about this subscription. — Z
Of course, I want it. Enclosed you will find my check —
for $2.00. Continue sending the Macazine. |

Regards,

T. W. ALLEN, ‘13:

 

Announcement has been received of the marriage of — }
Roy J. Grimley, ’21, to Miss Marion Elizabeth Frank —
of Ridgewood, New Jersey, on February 24th.

“4

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 37

Early History of Washington College (Continued )

(From the record by Rev. Henry Ruffner, B.D., L.L.D.,
Volume I, Washington and Lee Historical Papers.)

CHAPTER II.

The first settlements in Virginia having been made by
Englishmen of the Established Church, it was natural
that they should desire to have the same sort of religious
establishment in their new country. During more than
a century, the colony of Virginia was more strictly and
exclusively Episcopalian than mother England herself.
The few Presbyterians and other dissenters who had
settled in the country had no ecclesiastical organization
or ministry.

When at last, about the time when the Eastern end of
the Valley began to be settled, Presbyterian and Baptist
ministers began to visit the “Ancient Dominion,” they
had to struggle long and hard before they could obtain
toleration east of the Blue Ridge.

In the Valley, the case was different. The first set-
tlers were nearly all Scotch-Irish and German Dissent-
ers and their settlement served as a barrier to protect the
East Virginians against the savages and the French,
who were then formidable in the West and threatened
the frontier. Therefore, the colonial government en-
couraged the settlement of the Valley by liberal grants
of land, and never disturbed the religious freedom of the
settlers. Thus it happened that Presbyterian churches
began to grow up in the Valley about the same time that
ministers of this denomination succeeded in forming oth-
ers in East Virginia, especially in the counties of Han-
over and Prince Edward, where the materials of Presby-
terianism were found more plentiful than in other parts
of Lower Virginia.

After a sufficient number of churches and pastors had
risen, they were constituted into a Presbytery, which
was called Hanover, in compliment to the Rev. Samuel
Davies, pastor of the church, in Hanover county, and
the most eloquent and efficient preacher then in Vir-
ginia. Partly through the exertions of Davies and his
coadjutors in the East, and partly by the growth of the
Presbyterian settlements in the Valley, there was from
this time rapid increase of Presbyterianism in Virginia.
Almost every year new chyrches were planted and the
number of ministers and communicants was continually
multiplying. It may be worth while to mention that the
Presbyterian interest in Virginia was strengthened by
the accession of some descendants of French Huguenots,
who had been driven from their country by the revoca-
tion of the Edict of Nantes, and had settled on the wa-
ters of the James River. Being Calvinistic Protestants,
they were already Presbyterians.

The formation of the Presbytery and the increase of
the churches suggested in a few years the expediency of
establishing a seminary of liberal education, to be con-
ducted on Presbyterian principles. William and Mary,
the only college in Virginia, was connected with the Es-
ned Church, and the Princeton College, the nearest
| esbyterian institution of high rank, was too distant to
supply the want of a seminary in Virginia.

-, year 1771 the Presbytery made the first record
subject in the following words:

: The Presbytery being sensible of the great expe-
“ency of a seminary within their bounds, do recom-
mend to all their members to take the matter into their

consideration and report their thoughts thereon, at the
next meeting, especially respecting the best methods
of accomplishing. it.”

The first result of this movement was the establish-
ment in Prince Edward County of an academy which
was afterwards incorporated as Hampden Sidney Col-
lege. The location had reference to the general con-
venience of the Presbyterian population of Virginia and
North Carolina. It could not have been better chosen.

But the Presbyterians of the Valley needed an acad-
emy among themselves. The Presbytery therefore re-
solved “to fix a seminary for the education of youth in
Staunton.” But they adopted no measure for carrying
this resolution into effect until their meeting in October,
1774.

At their next spring meeting, in April, 1775, they again
recommended the school to the patronage of their con-
gregations, adding that, “as guardians and directors they
took the opportunity to declare their resolution to estab-
lish it on the most catholic plan that circumstances
would permit.” As no seminary above the rank of com-
mon school had yet been established in the Valley, the
Presbytery saw fit on this occasion to declare that they
meant not to confine the benefits of the Academy to
their own denomination of Christians, but to manage it
on such liberal principles that all the country might en-
joy the benefits of the institution. They meant, no
doubt, as in duty they were bound, to give a religious
and moral education to the pupils of their academy; but
not to manage it with the sectarian view of making
Presbyterians of all who might resort to it.

As William Graham was the first rector of the acad-
emy, and the principal agent in giving it permanent suc-
cess, we shall introduce him to the reader by presenting
a sketch of his early life.

He was born in Pennsylvania of Irish parents on the
19th of December, 1746. His father, Michael Graham,
resided in Paxton Township, near the place where Har-
risburg now stands. Being a farmer of small property,
his son William, with the other sons, had to labor on the
farm until he was fully grown, with no other schooling
than such as commonly fell to the lot of farmers’ sons.
The family were religiously brought up according to the
good old custom of Presbyterians. But William did not
seem to have profited by the pious examples and pre-
cepts that had been set before him; on the contrary he
became passionately fond of riotous amusements—frol-
icking and dancing, whenever he had the opportunity.
It was not until he was about twenty-one years old that
the fruits of his religious education began to appear. He
then became the subject of deep religious impressions
which resulted in a thorough and permanent change of
mind.

Now he became desirous of preparing himself for the
ministry of the gospel. But how to obtain the means of
pursuing a long course of study was the difficulty. His
father could ill spare the necessary funds, and was not
disposed to make sacrifices in favor of William’s laudable
desire. But the piety and love of the mother overcame
the difficulties of the father. Her heart was set on see-
ing her son a minister of the gospel. She pledged her
utmost exertions to contribute to his support; she pre-
vailed with her husband, and then told William to go
and prosper in his undertaking. Who can estimate the

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

amount of good done in this case, and many others, by
the pious zeal and resolution of mothers whose hearts,
warmed with the sacred end in view, have trusted in Di-
vine Providence for the issue, and have not been disap-
pointed!

He quit the plough and eagerly took hold of the Latin
Grammar. He studied first under Mr. Roan, pastor of
the church to which the family belonged, and afterwards
under a Mr, Finley, eking out his scanty finances by
teaching school at intervals as opportunity offered and
necessity required, until he was prepared to enter Prince-
ton College.

At college he soon distinguished himself by his talents,
his industry and piety. Here he became acquainted with
Samuel Stanhope Smith, a fellow student, whose rec-
ommendation afterwards brought him to Virginia.

Having completed his college course in about five
years after he had begun his Latin Grammar, he returned
to his birthplace, and commenced the study of Divinity,
under the worthy pastor, Mr. Roan. This pastor, like
many others, had to supply the deficiency of his salary
by cultivating a farm. But like most studious men he
was an awkward farmer, and often got into such per-
plexity with men, beasts and things in the multifarious
operations and accidents of husbandry that he was ready
to give up in despair. But whilst his pupil was with him,
his affairs were often disentangled. by one whose judg-
ment, energy and experience qualified him to solve the
knottiest difficulties of husbandry, and who needed this
diversion from the intense application to study, which
would otherwise have ruined his health.

Mr. Samuel S. Smith whose studies were in advance
of Mr. Graham’s came to Virginia immediately after he
had been licensed by the Presbytery of Newcastle. He
came at the time when the Presbytery of Hanover were
providing means for the establishment of Hampden Sid-
ney College, of which he became the first president. In
the meantime, he travelled extensively through the coun-
try as missionary. An elder brother of his, named Ehe-
nezer, had sometime before come from Princeton at the
call of the Rev. Jno. Brown, of Providence Church, and
had for a while taught a classical school in the bounds
of Mr. Brown’s charge. Thus, a beginning had been
made; but Ebenezer Smith having left the country, his
pupils were without a teacher under whom they could
pursue the studies which they had begun. When Sam-
uel S. Smith visited the Valley, the young men and their
fathers applied to him to recommend them a_ teacher.
He recommended Mr. Graham, first to them, and after-
wards to the Presbytery, when they resolved to establish
an academy.

At the request of the young men and their fathers he
wrote to Mr. Graham and advised him to come on im-
mediately and set up a classical school where his brother,
Ebenezer, had taught, assuring him that a good school
might be obtained. Mr. Graham obeyed the call. A
school was soon made up for him and located where
Ebenezer Smith had taught, on an eminence in Timber
Ridge about a mile northeast of the present village of
Fairfield, in Rockbridge County.

The neighborhood was well settled for a new country;
the air was remarkably salubrious and living was very
cheap. The rustic school-house stood in a fine forest of
oaks, which cast a shade over it in the summer and sup-
plied it with convenient fuel in the winter. <A spring of
pure water gushed from the rocks near the house. From
underneath the spreading tree-tops the students had a

  
  
  
  
   
 
  
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
   
    

view of the country below, and of the neighboring 1.
Ridge. In short, all the features of the place made ‘it
fit habitation for the woodland muse, and the hill ¢
served its name of Mount Pleasant.

Hither about thirty youths of the Great Valley ,
paired “to taste of the Pierian Spring,” thirty-six year
after the first settlement of Burden’s Grant, now ;
bridge County. Of reading, writing and ciphering,
boys of the country had before acquired such knowlede
as primary schools usually afford; but with a very
late exceptions, Latin, Greek, Algebra, Geometry
other scholastic mysteries were things of which some |
them had heard, and know, perhaps to be covered up it
the learned heads of their pastors,—but of the natt
and uses of which, they had no conception whatever, = f
large proportion of those who went to Mt. Pleasan:
Academy were fully grown young men, who had bee
waiting for opportunity to qualify themselves by ae
demic studies for engaging in professional pursuit
Many settlers in the Valley found themselves now >
easy circumstances. Pastors, physicians and lawyers be-
gan to be in demand; and the civil distinction conferr
by the learned professions, began to be understood
appreciated by the more intelligent young men,

The establishment of the first permanent school
this order was an important event in the history of the
Valley. This school was the germ from which Was
ington College was ultimately unfolded: and the conse-
quences of its establishment were the diffusion of a lit-
erary spirit through the Presbyterian population of he
Valley and the rise of a college which is resorted to Dy
students from nearly all parts of Virginia, and by some
from other states. <a

In this rustic seminary a considerable number of young
men began their liberal education, who afterwards bore
a distinguished part in the civil and ecclesiastical affai
of the country. Among these were Blackburn, Brecken-
ridge, Mitchell, Doak, Montgomery, W. Wilson and
Priestly. q

While the school was thus going on, partly as a pri:
vate establishment, yet recognized and patronized by the. ;
Presbytery as the germ of their academy, the subscrip-
tions for its benefit proceeded rather slowly. At the
meeting of the Presbytery, in April, 1775, they nam a
several laymen in various parts of the country to assis
in forwarding the subscriptioas. “a

In October of the same year, they passed an order |
continuing Mr. Graham as their teacher, and appointing —
Mr. John Montgomery as his assistant. Mr. Montgom-
ery continued in this office until he was licensed to-
preach. He afterwards settled in the Pastures, upon the
upper branches of the North (James) River, and had
charge of the congregations of Lebanon and Roe a
Spring. He was an excellent man, and lived at the same
place, useful and respected, until he died at an advanced ;
age.
At the same meeting the Presbytery resolved to con- 7
tinue their efforts to obtain subscriptions; they also ap-
pointed collectors of the moneys already subscribed, for
the purpose of procuring immediately some books and —
philosophical apparatus for the use of the school. a

The next May, 1776, they met again at Providence —
church, five or six miles from the academy, and visited —
the school for the purpose of examining the classes. —
They expressed a high degree of satisfaction with both —
teachers and pupils. At the same time Mr. Graham in-
formed the Presbytery that 128 pounds of the subscrip- i

IC

o
4

7

   
   
  
    
   
   
   
  
   
   
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

é

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

tion moneys had been paid into his hands by the collec-
tors, and that he had purchased in Philadelphia books
and scientific apparatus to the amount of 160 pounds.
The balance was ordered to be paid to him as soon as it

_ should be collected.

The apparatus procured by Mr. Graham consisted olf
4 small reflecting telescope, a pair of twelve-inch globes,
4 solar microscope, an air pump, an electrical machine
with necessary appurtenances, a barometer, a miniature
orrery, a Hadley’s quadrant and the usual land survey-
or’s instruments. This was a judicious selection of ap-
paratus.

The books consisted of about two hundred and ninety
yolumes of all sizes, including some standard works of
English literature and of science—the rest theological—
some of them useful, others of little account and lying
unread, down to this day. On the whole, these purchases
were well made, and cheaply, too, for a sum equivalent
to $530, and that, we presume, in the paper currency of
the time.

But the time and labor consumed in raising this pal-
try sum for such an object among a Presbyterian popu-
lation of eight or ten thousand souls may strike some
readers unfavorably. But we should reflect that such an
enterprise was entirely new, that the country was new,
that most of its inhabitants were yet struggling with the
difficulties incident to a new interior settlement, and that
their distance from market and the want of roads made
money exceedingly scarce. These things being consid-
ered, we think that they did well in this case; though, as
always happens among all people, they might have done

better.

The Presbytery now found the subscriptions suff-
ciently advanced to enable them to organize the acad-
emy on a permanent foundation, and to fix its site with
a view to the erection of suitable buildings.

They appointed Mr. Graham rector, Mr. Montgomery
assistant teacher, and the twenty-four gentlemen, named
below, as trustees, viz: The Rev. Messrs. John Brown,
James Waddell, Charles Cummins, William Irvine and
the rector, ex-officio; with Mr. Thomas Lewis, General
Andrew Lewis, Col. Wm. Christian, Col. Wm. Fleming,
Mr. Thos. Stuart, Mr. Samuel Lyle, Col. Jno. Bowyer,
Mr. John Grattan, Col. Wm. Preston, Mr. Sampson
Matthews, Maj. Samuel McDowell, Mr. Wm. McPheet-
ers, Capt. Alexander Stuart, Capt. Wm. McKee, Capt.
George Moffett, Mr. John Houston, Mr. Charles Camp-
bell, Mr. Wm. Ward and Capt. John Lewis, of the
Warm Springs. Seven of these trustees were to consti-
tute a quorum for the transaction of business,

They were to collect subscriptions and donations, to
expend the money collected and to conduct all the affairs
of the Academy “on behalf of the Presbytery” who re-
served to themselves .the right of visitation, as often as
they should judge necessary, and of appointing the rector
and his assistants.

The trustees above named were selected for their in-
telligence and respectability from all parts of the coun-
try, west of the Blue Ridge, supposed to be interested in
Sustaining the Academy. It does not appear from sub-
sequent records that the majority of these gentlemen
ever accepted.

(Supplementary Note.)

(A gap in the history occurs here, owing to the loss of
four pages of the author's manuscript. The narrative is
broken in the midst of the proceedings of Hanover Pres-
bytery, at its meeting at Providence Church, in May,

1776. At this meeting it was determined to accept an
offer made by persons residing near Timber Ridge
Church, which offer consisted of a donation of eighty
acres of land near the church, as a site for the academy,
the erection thereon of hewed log house twenty-eight by
twenty-four feet, one story and a half high, besides the
money subscriptions, and the probable gratuitous supply
of firewood and timber for buildings for twenty years.
The offer of land was made by two prominent citizens
of Rockbridge County, namely, Samuel Houston (the
father of the eminent General, President and Senator
Samuel Houston), and Alexander Stuart, father of Judge
Archibald Stuart, and grandfather of Hon. A. H. H.
Stuart. These two gentlemen owned lands adjoining
each other and close to the church, and they agreed to
form a tract of 80 acres, by the contribution of 40 acres
each. —

(The executive committee, pursuant to the order of
the Presbytery, met May 13th, 1776, and at this meeting
the name Liberty Hall first appears. In the proceedings
of the Presbytery which was in session only the week
before, the school is still called Augusta Academy. We
are left to surmise as to just when and how the change
was made, but as the institution was not then incorpo-
rated, probably there was no legal difficulty in the way
of a change of name by anybody having official control
over the school. And just now there were two reasons
why such a change was needed. One was, that the
name Augusta was local, and hence not appropriate to
the wide career contemplated for the school by its new
patrons and controllers. And the other was the ap-
proaching creation of Rockbridge county, which would
take the school out of Augusta county. This question,
however, may have escaped the attention of the Presby-
tery, whilst it would naturally be forced upon the con-
sideration of the committee appointed to attend to the
making of title deeds and the erection of buildings. The
members of the committee who were present May 13th,
were William Graham, Rector; Alexander Stuart, Sam-
uel Lyle, Charles Campbell, John Houston and William
McKee. ‘This band of patriots, as we may reasonably
suppose, on the occasion of this first meeting, gave to
the newly organized school the stirring name of Liberty
Hall Academy. Most likely the name was suggested by
Graham. It was a bold act of defiance, for, up to this
time, the British flag floated over the capitol of Virginia,
and it was nearly two months-in advance of the Decla-
ration of Independence. It was the first outburst of the
Rockbridge spirit, which, the next year, named the county
seat in honor of the Lexington where was shed the first
blood of the Revolution. Who knows but that the adop-
tion of this name, followed up as it was by patriotic de-
votion to the end, had a decisive effect on General Wash-
ington’s mind when considering what he should do with
his James River stock.

(The executive committee proceeded vigorously with
its work. The school building was erected by the Tim-
ber Ridge people, according to promise; other buildings
were put up by means of contributions, partly obtained
from distant places, some even from New England,
whither Graham went for the purpose. Dr. Archibald
Alexander states this, and says: “Several small neat
buildings were erected for the use of the students, and.a
good house on the New England model was reared for
the Rector. Students came in goodly numbers, mostly
grown young men.” :

(Hither, early in 1777, came Mr. Graham _ with his

4/

40 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

newly married wife [Mary Keer, of Carlisle, Pa.], his as-
sistant, John Montgomery, and his school library and
apparatus. The prospects of the academy were very
good for a time, but those “grown young men” were
soon wanted for sterner exercises than sounding the
depths of Graham’s metaphysics. The news of Wash-
ington’s brilliant fight at Princeton mingled with the
first lessons. The thunders of Saratoga soon reverber-
ated among the mountains. The guns of Brandywine
and Germantown announced the movement of the war
southward. The Scotch-Irish were as one man in sup-
port of the war. Dr. Alexander says that there were but
two tories in the country, and they were soon driven
off; and he, a boy of eight years in this year 1777, “fre-
quently saw companies of backwoodsmen with their
rifles and brown hunting shirts and deer’s tail cockades,
passing on to the theatre of conflict.” Were these “young
men” likely to sit long on those academy benches pars-
ing and figuring? Let the “Liberty Hall Volunteers” of
a later date answer this question. Especially when the
most enthusiastic patriot in all the country was William
Graham, who, as Dr. Foote says, “so far from repress-
ing the spirit of patriotism in his congregations or the
young men under his care, by his precepts and example
he inflamed them with a more vehement love of liberty.”

(This was good for the patriot cause but bad for the
school, as was notably the case at a later epoch. But
the exercises of the academy were continued with many
difficulties, and all questions economic and academic were
duly considered; among them the old and unending ques-
tion of the modes of boarding students. Here the inter-
rupted narrative is resumed by the author—W. H. R.)

The price of tuition was fixed at four pounds a year,
making the total to ten pounds, ten shillings for the
yearly expenses of a student, exclusive of books, cloth-
ing and other contingencies. This was but thirty-five
dollars in our federal money, and was paid in a paper
currency, already somewhat depreciated. The smallness
of the sum is decisive evidence that the necessaries of life
produced in the country sold at a very low rate, and that
the imported commodities, now so largely consumed,
were scarcely used at all. ;

When the trustees met at the opening of the new
academy, on the first of January, 1777, Mr, Graham ac-
counted to the board for the moneys which he had re-
ceived for the benefit of the academy. The total sum
was 230 pounds, of which he had paid out 197 pounds
“for books, apparatus and other things.” He then paid
over the balance in his hands to Samuel Lyle, treasurer
of the board. The buildings when finished, cost—as
nearly as we can now form an estimate from facts stated
in the records—about 200 pounds, exclusive of donations
in labor and materials. To this sum add as much more,
previously expended in books and apparatus, and it will
appear that Liberty Hall Academy was built and fur-
nished for a sum of money equivalent to about 1,400 dol-
lars, besides donations in land, labor and materials, worth
perhaps 600 dollars more. The institution then  pos-
sessed 80 acres of land, 2 houses, a library of 300 vol-
umes and all the most necessary philosophical instru-
ments. There was no chemical apparatus; for as yet
chemistry was little studied even in colleges.

This Academy owed its foundation, first, to the en-
lightened policy and pious zeal of the Presbyterian
clergy of the land; secondly, to the contributions of the
Presbyterian people of the Valley; thirdly, to the energy
and talents of the rector; and lastly, to the attention

F. P. HAMILTON, ’99, HEADS LOUISIAN,

  
  
   
  
    
    
 
 
  
  
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
    
   
   
  

given to its affairs by a few of the neighboring trusal .
and the gratuitous aid in land, labor and materials, ¢
by some members of the Timber Ridge congregation, —

(To be continued.) Be

- :

ENGINEERS

Farrar P. Hamilton, '99, president of the Creosote,
Materials Company was unanimously elected president
for the year 1926 by the Louisiana Engineering §
ciety, on January 19th. The organization has ove
four hundred members which includes all of the out-
standing engineers of the State. It is actively eng:
in an effort to have a new law passed by the Sta
Legislature on the registration of civil engineers and |
also seeks the re-establishment of a State Geologica il
department. —-

Mr. Hamilton is the fourth Washington and
alumnus to become president of the Louisiana Engi-
neers, former presidents having been Douglas S. a
derson, 90, Walter H. Hoffman, ’76, and Samuel McV.
Young, ’98._ Mr. Hamilton has just retired as pres
dent of the Louisiana Alumni Association of Was
ington and Lee.

PERSONALS |
Captain John F. Jenkins, ’68, Commander of Nat ez

Veterans, made a deep impression at the reunion of
veterans held recently in Meridian, Mississippi, when
he responded with an address in behalf of the Ce =
federtate Veterans. a

E. R. Preston, ’02, is a prominent attorney in
Charlotte, N. C. e..

T. S. McPheeters, ’04, is selling real estate in~
Charlotte, N. C. *

“Tommy” Glasgow, °12 and °16, is president of
the Glasgow-Stewart & Company, wholesalers of all
types of automobile accessories, supplies and equip-

ment, in Charlotte, N. C. «

Herman P. Davidson, ‘13, formerly of Lexington, |
Virginia, writes us that although he graduated from_
Hopkins and has been teaching Clinical Ophthalmology
at the University of Chicago for the past five years,
he still holds W. & L. as his first love. 7

Lafe Chafin, °17, who was formerly in partnershifi™
with Randolph Bias, has taken up his official duties
as prosecuting attorney in Williamson, West Virginiz
where he will also continue in the general pra of
law. @
Charles W. MeNitt, °17, graduating from College
of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, will 3
interne at Bellevue Hospital, New York City. He is
a member of Alpha Omega Alpha, senior honora
medical fraternity. tg

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

Jose Caminero, ’13, who is engaged in Civil Engi-
neering at Havana, Cuba, is also corresponding sec-
retary of the University Club of that city.

Lester D. Arnold, *18, who for some years has been
the private secretary and confidential man of H. F.
Byrd, newly elected Governor of Virginia, was in
Richmond for several weeks aiding in getting the new
administration in working order. It is rumored that
Mr. Arnold would have been gubernatorial secretary
but for the fact that he is needed in Winchester to
attend to the governor’s business interests, which he
has at his fingers’ ends. ‘The fact that he “wasn’t
twins’ prevented his appointment to the executive
post, it is said. Mr. Arnold was a quiet but effective
worker at Byrd’s campaign headquarters during the
months before the primary. His specialty is turning
chaos into system. He was formerly secretary of the
late Hal D. Flood, congressman from the Tenth dis-
trict.

Mr. James L. Howe, Jr., 718, son of Dr. and Mrs.
James Lewis Howe of Lexington, is engaged in the
interesting pastime of collecting Confederate postage
stamps in an effort to raise $2,500 for the founding
of a boys’ school at Kintehchen, China. “Jay” re-
turned a year ago from China where he had taught
three years in Hang Chow Christian College. One
of his most interesting finds recently was a barrel in
an attic in Amherst county containing forty-five old
Confederate stamps for which he paid the owner
ninety dollars.

Fadjo Cravens, ’20, is practicing law in the firm of
Cravens and Cravens, at Fort Smith, Arkansas.

A. R. McNamara, ’20, is employed by the Inter-

national Bedding Company, in Baltimore, Maryland.
_R. T. Smith, ’20, is taking a course at Johns Hop-
kins Medical School, Baltimore, Maryland.

Noble Hendrix, B.A., ’21, was in Lexington for a
short time recently, en route from Washington, D. C.,

to Birmingham, Alabama, where he is principal of the
Paul Hayne High School.

Huston St. Clair, ’22, interned at the Pennsylvania
Hospital in Philadelphia, will become a resident phy-
sician there during the summer or fall.

In the last issue of the MAGAZINE, we published an
item stating that Lidell Peck, ’23, was selling bonds
in San Fr ancisco. We find that this is an error. He
IS manager for the James F. Peck Properties of that
City, which me: ins (according to his statement) that he

is
trying to learn what ranching, manufacturing, build-
ing and lumber is all about.

Fred T. Peebles, 23, is practicing law under the

firm ; ; i
. . of Kerr & Peebles, with offices in Dunedin
C : ; j
learwater, Florida. He writes us that alumni

are 1 T ;
a 1umerous on the West Coast, selling real estate
n Practicing law.

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY'S

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

HUGER--DAVIDSON SALE COMPANY

WHOLESALE GROCERS

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

BRANCH HOUSES:

Buena Vista Staunton

 

 

Rockbridge Wholesale
Company

Incorporated

WHOLESALE GROCERS

LEXINGTON, - - - - - VIRGINIA

 

ORDER YOUR COPY NOW!
The Alumni Directory—April 15—$4.00
The Alumni Magazine—one year—$2.00

Check or money order payable to the
Alumni, Inc., should be sent to Drawer 897,
Lexington, Va.

 

 

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

WEINBERG’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

 

PERSONALS

    
  
   
   
   
 
    
   
  
 
   
  
 
   
  
   
 
   
   
 
 
 
  

Raymond G. Wickersham, ‘23, is taking gradua
work in Industrial Management in the Harvard Bus
ness School, from which he expects to receive his *
gree in 1927. . _
a

Leo Hack, ’24, at present a volunteer fireman s
Tarentum, Pennsylvania, had a narrow escape fron
death or serious injury last week when a wall “ol
lapsed at a fire which he was engaged in fighting. :
blaze was in the Star Theatre in the Pennsylvz
town, and Hack, together with other firemen, ial
on a ladder near the second floor when the wall gav
way, throwing them to the ground below and _ she
ered them with bricks. He escaped with nothing more
than painful bruises, however, ’
around.

and is able to a
While a student at Washington and Lee, Hack y

on the staff of the Ring-Tum-Phi, and was promir ent

in intramural fencing circles. g

=

td

Coach Forest Fletcher has on display in his office th
cup which was won by the local relay team last Satur-
day night in the University of Richmond ‘Invitation
Indoor Games. ‘The cup is emblematic of the South:
ern Conference Relay Championship, according to the
inscription upon it, and represents the winning race of
Milbank, Wilson, Summerson, and Captain Davis, un-
chor man, in the mile relay grind. S

The annual preparatory basketball tournament, held
at Washington and Lee under the auspices of the W.
& L. Athletic Association, was won by Oak Ridge In
stitute, of Oak Ridge, N. C. The Oak Ridge team w ¢ ;
coached by A. C. (“Pat”) Cummings, ’22. “Patt” wai
elated over the showing of his team as he had a right
to be.

In addition to the regulation size silver basketball
given as a trophy to the winning team, four of ie
prizes offered for individual work went to a member
of the Oak Ridge team. .

An excellent showing was also made in this tourné _
ment by the team from Greenbriar Military Academy,
of Louisburg, W. Va., which was coached by the
famous Eddie Cameron, ’24. '

“Dick” Smith, originator and sponsor of the all
Southern and preparatory cage tournament, reports th it
this year’s event was the most successful of the three
annual tournaments which have been held to date. —

