E. P. DAVIS, President

C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

MAIL ORDERS FOR
RECORD, W. and L. Swing by W. and L. Orchestra—850c. prepaid
SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00

Promptly Filled

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager

R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

——
—

THE ALLIIMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

E. C. Carrrey, President
E. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer

VERBON E. Kemp, Editor
Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

PAGE PAGE
Mminals ... sss opal aes bate ee ibs © « spn 5-6 Bi hE ee ORT ar ys BE. . on 21
Class Reunions, ‘06 ............. eee eees st eeee 6 ites ay hae 1 i) nn nae 22
Alumni Reunion of the ‘70's and ‘80's.......... / Alumni ‘Scholarships ........<..00s00........20-4
Last New York Alumni Luncheon............. 8 “Bob” McDougle, °19, Declines Appointment... . 24
ee ee 8 OW. W. Gaines, 90, Honored.............0006. 24
ree sta aes ee . William Davis Conrad, ’03............eeeee0e: 25
L Re N 5 He 1 Ph one 6. rr 13 Gilliam Literary Awards Are Made............. 25
me ons cane EL c 6k < sed be cnc 3 ose Cee « W. & . in Foreign Lands. W. W. Smith, "13.
mew Methodist ‘Church. :.. v5.4... «ss aa 13 . aie |
. . Frank Gilliam, °17 and A. Dana Hodgdon,
Journalism Students at Press Congress.......... 13 04 26-28
Southern College Federation Elects W. & L. Stu- Pyke gees aa ame ere. °, aaa ati 2: .
dent 14 CR ea a ees se wa chs wigs 28-29
Mebaters Lauded... ois eee 14 C H. DORR UON ro Meas ao oo 0s ok ge see 29
Troub Show Scores Triumphs..............+-- 14 WN CO FeO Pi ae soc tee eines 30
Repairs and Improvements..............02+00+ 14 Alumni of Yesterday, J. C. Calhoun, ’72, and C.
Faculty Introductions, No. IV, Forest Fletcher.. 15 el Brown, 69. eveeererseeeeeeeneceeeceeeee . 31-32
mampus News .3...3c00s ot hc eee 16-18 War Letters of Kiffin Yates Rockwell.........33-35
The Directory—Contents: .. .. ssc) sieweee eee tt 19 I aan, ea) he sivas ove vss + a 0s
Worth Preserving? 2.0... i. 0 eae ee eee: 20 Early History of Washington College (cont’d)..38-40

 

——ee

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid ~ 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

Lexington, Virginia

 

THe CHAPEL

Commencement Exercises

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Vo. Il

MAY 1926

No. 4

 

 

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

 

 

Finals

Judge John Barton Payne,

An array of interesting features await the return-
ing alumnus at Commencement this year. The bac-
calaureate sermon will be delivered by Dr. Henry
Wade Dubose of Spartanburg, S. C. A memorial
tablet to Wm. McCutchan Morrison, ’87, famed
African missionary, will be unveiled in the Chapel
on Alumni Day with appropriate ceremony by his
former classmates. The address by Judge John
Barton Payne, of Chicago and Washington, on
Commencement day will be the feature of that occa-
sion. Several classes have arranged for special re-
unions. The customary program of dances will pre-
vail with Jan Garber, old W. and L. favorite, and
his orchestra furnishing the music.

Finals officially begin Friday night, June 4th, with
the Inter-fraternity dance at the gymnasium, fol-
lowed by the P. A. N.-White Friar dansant Satur-
day morning and the Sigma German Saturday night.
Dr. Dubose will be heard in the Lee Chapel Sunday
morning. He is pastor of the First Presbyterian
Church of Spartanburg, S. C., and will bring an in-
teresting and inspiring message to the graduates and
their friends. Vesper services will be held on the
campus lawn under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A.
Sunday afternoon.

Monday, June 7th, is Alumni Day. The annual
meeting of the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incor-
porated, will be held in the Carnegie Library at 9:30
A. M. with Judge E. C. Caffray, 09, presiding.
Upon adjournment, the assembled alumni will go to
the Chapel in a body for the unveiling of the Wil-
liam M. Morrison tablet. Governor William A.
MacCorkle, ’77, will preside at this ceremony, and
Rev. Lee W. Irwin, ’88, will deliver the address. A
buffet luncheon will be served to visiting alumni and
their families on the Dining Hall lawn at 1 P. M.
Che class reunion meetings will be held during the
aiternoon. The classes from ’72 to ’88 will meet at
the Lee Chapel, the classes of "06 at the Carnegie Li-
brary, and the Law class of ’21 at Tucker Hall. Re-
Unions of the classes of 98 to ’01 and ’17 to ’20 are
also scheduled. The annual race between “Harry
Lee” and “Albert Sidney” will be held on the river
at 6 P. M. In the evening President and Mrs.

Commencement Speaker

 

E. W. MacCorkLe
Valedictorian

 

 

Henry Louis Smith will receive the alumni gradu-
ates at the President’s mansion. The Senior-Alumni
Ball in the gymnasium will complete the day. Mr.
and Mrs. John W. Davis have been asked to lead
the Alumni figure at this dance.

The graduating class and their friends will be
privileged in hearing Judge John Barton Payne at
the Commencement exercises in the Chapel Tuesday
morning. Judge Payne, a native Virginian; a fa-
mous lawyer and Judge of Chicago, Illinois; Secre-
tary of the Interior under President Wilson; promi-
nent in World War administration; U. S. Commis-
sioner to Mexico in 1923; now chairman of the Amer-
ican Red Cross and Chief of the International Red
Cross organization, will deliver an address of par-
ticular interest and value. He is famed as a deep
thinker, eloquent speaker and able public servant.
The valedictory address will be delivered by E. W.
MacCorkle, son of Rev. E. W. MacCorkle, ’74. De-
grees will be awarded to one hundred and seven ap-
plicants. The Final Ball, Tuesday night, will ap-
propriately close the Commencement festival. L. L.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Edgerton of Goldsboro, N. C., will lead the ball and
Jan Garber and his orchestra will furnish the music.
The condensed program is as follows:

COMMENCEMENT PROGRAM—JUNE 4rH TO 8TH, 1926

Interfraternity Dance—Friday night, June 4th, 10 P.M.

P. A. N.—White Friars Dansant, Saturday, June 5th,
11 A.M.

Sigma German, Saturday night, June 5th, 10 P.M.

Baccalaureate Sermon, Lee Chapel, Sunday, June 6th,
11 A.M.

Alumni Day, Monday, June 7th.

Commencement Exercises, Lee Chapel, Tuesday, June
8th, 10:30 A.M.

Final Ball, Tuesday, June 8th, 10 P.M.

ALUMNI ProGRAM, Monpay, JUNE 7th.

Alumni Meeting at Library—9 :30 A.M.
Procession to Lee Chapel—11:15 A.M.
Unveiling of the Wm. McC. Morrison Tablet—
11:30 A.M.
Presided over by Gov. Wm. A. MacCorkle, ’73
Address by Rev. Lee W. Irwin, ’88
Alumni Luncheon, Dining Hall Lawn—1 :00 P.M.
Class Reunions—2-6 P.M.
70’s and 80's, Lee Chapel, G. D. Letcher,
Chairman ;
06, Library, Albert Steves, Jr., W. H. More-
land, D. H. Pipes, Committee ;
‘21, Tucker Hall, T. X. Parsons, Chairman
Boat Race—6 P.M.
President’s Reception—9 P.M.
Senior Alumni Ball — Doremus Gymnasium—
10 P.M.

The authorities of Washington and Lee University
tender to you to use as their guests, quarters in the
dormitories. If Alumni bring their wives or desire
other accommodations they may be arranged for
through Mr. Verbon E. Kemp, Alumni Secretary.

 

TO THE LAW CLASS OF ’06

You as a member of the Law Class of 1906 are
hereby summoned to attend a Reunion of that class
to be held in Tucker Hall on Alumni Day, June 7,
1926, that being the Twentieth Anniversary of its
graduation.

I am writing to every member of the Class urging
him to attend. I hope we shall all be here when we
may have the pleasure of renewing old: associations
and rendering an account of our doings in the years
that have intervened.

With best wishes and looking forward to seeing
you on the day mentioned, I am

Very sincerely yours,
W. H. Morevanp,
Dean.

  

Grundy, Virginia, May 8th, 1926.

Fellow Members, 1906 Law Class,
of W. and L. University.

Dear Fellows:

A week or so ago I received from our President, _
W. H. Moreland, now Dean of W. and L, Law
School, a summons to appear at Tucker Hall on
June 7th, 1926, to answer a roll call of our class, ] ;
like the idea, and I desire to add my appeal to More- 4
land’s summons. In fact, were I the president of —
our class, I would issue a rule instead of a summons, ’
I can see no possible excuse for any member of our q
class failing to attend. I believe I know “Old Root”
well enough to vouch for his being present, and so q
far as our located members are concerned, Root will a
have the farthest to travel—from California. In the —
main, the members of our class are not located more

than a day or two’s journey from Lexington. We _

should all go back and renew old associations and _
friendships next month.

If there be among you any man, who, like myself
car’ boast of no particular success or achievement, —
either intellectually or financially, let him remember _
the good deeds he has done, and the unpaid for ad-
vice that he has given, and be not ashamed to face
his fellow students. I take it that most of you have
accumulated more riches and have won more cases
than I. However, I know that I have not lived in
vain, and that when I have shuffled off, my influ-
ence for the better will be felt by some. I know that
each of you can bring a clean record, and one worthy

of the ideals of W. and L.. and can truthfully say

that you have done no act of which you are ashamed.
You have done, then, something of which you may
well be proud.

I think we should have a class banquet. We
should each of us give some of our experiences, for
in twenty years a great deal has happened to each of
us. I can think of nothing more interesting than the
happenings to and experiences of twenty or thirty
lawyers, scattered throughout the entire Southland,
and even to the land of the Sun-Kist fruits, for a
period of twenty years. We have helped with hu-
man troubles of every class—criminals, paupers,
farmers, laborers, manufacturers, corporations and
men with millions. An exchange of our viewpoints,
experiences and the different angles from which we
approach these problems will be, in my opinion, in-
tensely interesting.

Please each of you, if you have not already done
so, pause long enough to write Moreland immediately.
accepting service of his summons, and praying that
no rule may be entered against you.

With best wishes, I am

Yours sincerely, H. CLAupE Popst.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

To the Alumni of the Seventies and Eighties

At the Robert IX. Lee Centenary in 1909 there was
4 most inspiring Reunion of the Alumni of General
Lee’s time. There will be unveiled on Alumni Day,
Monday, June 7th, this year, during the Commence-
ment, a Bronze Tablet—a Memorial to WILLIAM
McCUTCHAN MORRISON, of the Class of 1887,
the great African Missionary; and it is thought that a
Reunion of Alumni of the 70’s and 80's at that time
would be fraught with pleasure to the “boys” and
gratification to our Alma Mater and this invitation is
sent out to all whose addresses we have, trusting that
the “homecoming” will be found worth while to all
who can participate.

There is a yearning of the human heart to return to
the places it once knew, and no place is now tugging
at your heart strings harder than the Old Mother.
She has treasured your memory, watched your career
in life, taken pride in your triumphs and good fortune,
sympathized if word came of any misfortune, and
those of her children who have passed beyond, she
has noted on her record with sadness. And it is full
time that those whom the world and a kind Providence
have treated well, should return with high spirit and
affection to old Washington and Lee, whose educa-
tional and moral training deserve much credit for what
life has brought you, which you realize more and more
as the years pass by.

The “boys” of the 70’s and 80's have become gray
and are in the mellow sunlight of life’s afternoon, and
this may be the last Reunion notice which will reach
you—so at once determine to be here and arrange to
come leisurely, enjoy it leisurely and live again the old
days—arrange it as a vacation. Bring with you the
partner of your life and happiness, that she too may
catch and enjoy its spirit.

 

Washington and Lee is a bigger place than when
you left—growth and prosperity have deservedly come
to her. Her Alumni have cumulatively brought honor
to her and her fame.has expanded. For one illustra-
tion, have you thought of it and do you appreciate that
her sons in the most wonderful way led in guiding the
destiny of our country during the World War before
and after the entrance of America into active partici-
pation? Embracing among others:

Newton D. Baker, Secretary of War;

Hal D. Flood, Chairman of Foreign Relations, Com-
mittee of House of Representatives ;

James Hay, Chairman of Naval Com’t., later Judge
of the Court of Claims;

George EK. Chamberlain, Chairman of the Military
Committee of the Senate;

Robert L. Owen, Chairman of the Banking Com't. of
the Senate;

7

we
Lei RE M°CUTCHAN MORRISON
“N NOVEMBER 80. 1867. |
eee ~ Tr mesiae +
- — 8 Se evar, SL PS
BSS Drcnipecn ha Ae nF ae

RESSIVE EX .
rH EXPOSER OF THE OPPRESSi0N

 

BI . 2 ee om ents
ax. Ts —, MARRIED BEAIHA ;
‘AICHE, Se
Ses me iis MOVEMBER 23. asf] mad pi
Ai Oe we ee y
A \<RieD THe, COGPEL. TO BARKEST AFRICA 7
y ' - - atthe nett cL Lt ale naate
- -2 5 — yeh yh) RESULTS RANKS
Hi IAGLET IS PLACED BY FELLOW
‘Ts oF ASOUT Mis TIME iN HAPPY THOUGHT OF
DAY FELLOWSHIP. AND IN COMMEMORATION
AT CHAR ACTER ws HOLY LIFE - work
lee) ee a
MENT, AND TO KEEP ALIVE 06 NAME Aw
\E. OF OUR GREATEST ALUMNE AS AN cue
OMING GENERATIONS OF STUDENTS

, etre q

a

 

 

Morrison MemoriAL ‘TABLET

 

 

Miles Poindexter, one of the Republican leaders of
the Senate and a candidate for their Presidential
nomination ;

John W. Davis, Solicitor General of the United States,
Ambassador to Great Britain and later Demo-
cratic Nominee for President ;

Thomas Nelson Page, Ambassador to Italy:

Samuel J. Graham, Asst. Attorney-General of the
United States and later Judge of the Court of
Claims ;

any many others of great but less conspicuous service.

At the country’s moment of supreme effort, she
drafted from W. & L. Alumni, a galaxy of leaders
and councilors with which the other great schools
singly offer no comparison. It is a record so great
and unique as to challenge wonder,

Come back and commune with the Old Mother and
gather strength and inspiration from her and in the
renewal of the memories of those halcyon college
days and renewed touch of those splendid friendships
and glorious comraderies, the duplication of which life
has never brought anything like.

The Memorial to William McCutchan Morrison will
be a bronze ‘Tablet affixed to the southwest wall of
the Lee Chapel just in front of and to the left of

8 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

the platform, the inscription on which will be as fol-
lows, under an open Bible, a Cross and a Crown:

“WILLIAM McCUTCHAN MORRISON.

“Born November 10, 1867, near Lexington, Vir-
ginia; B.A., W. and L. U., 1887. Graduate Presby-
terian Theological Seminary, Louisville, Kentucky,
1892. Missionary, Luebo, Congo, Africa, May 7,
1897. Aggressive exposed of the oppression and atroc-
ities suffered by the Belgian-Congo natives and for
which he suffered prosécution, but was acquitted and
vindicated. Author of the first grammar and diction-
ary of the native dialect and paraphrased the Scrip-
tures therein. D.D., W. and L. U., 1906. Married
Bertha Stebbins of Natchez, Mississippi, June 14,
1906, who died as a missionary with him November
21, 1910. He died March 14, 1918, and was buried
at Luebo.

“He carried the Gospel to darkest Africa and in
consecration, administration, linguistic work, practical

* methods and results ranks first in this field.

“This tablet is placed by fellow students of about
his time in happy thought of college-day fellowship,
and in commemoration of his great character, his holy
life-work, his heroic bravery and his splendid accom-
plishment, and to keep alive in name and thought one
of our greatest Alumni as an inspiration to coming
generations of students.”

All alumni are urged to come and take part and
honor this occasion whether of the 70’s and 80's or
not.

The Lexington Golf Club invites you to use its links
as guests while here. Bring your clubs, and spend a
week in Lexington.

Let each man write to those whom he especially de-
sires to meet here, and if the addresses of any are de-
sired, write for same to Mr. Verbon E. Kemp, Alumni
Secretary, W. and L. U., Lexington, Virginia.

Please have a news note made of this occasion in
your local and State press.

 

LAST N. Y. ALUMNI LUNCHEON

The New York Alumni Association of Washington
and Lee University held its regular meeting at a
luncheon in New York City last Wednesday after-
noon. This was the last business meeting until next
fall. Matters of minor importance were discussed
and soon dispensed with, and the plans for the com-
ing spring dinner were changed.

A suggestion was made that the dinner be a com-
bined affair with the alumni of the University of Vir-
ginia as guests. ‘The alumni present at the meeting
included: H. R. Hawthorne, °10; R. E. Tyrrell, ’21;
John Drye, Jr., ’20; W. R. Burton, °17; L. R. Henry,
‘25; Clarence Sager, 714; Lewis Tyree, °15; William
Farrar, Jr:, 19; M. G. Welch, ’21; Roy Grimley, ’21;
W. C. McKnight, ’24; Thornton Allen, ‘11; FE. A.

Bibb, ’24; G.

Nitt, 17 and J. A. Lee, ’17.

 

OUR CALLERS

Mr. Hunter McDonald, °79, of Nashville, Tenn., |
visited Lexington during the early Spring. Formerly —
a resident of Lexington, he was keenly interested in —
Almost every spot in Lex- _
ington recalled a former experience or brought forth 3
He was warmly greeted by ;

visiting his former haunts.

an interesting anecdote.
Dean H. D. Campbell and found a most cordial wel-
come at the Alumni office.

with headquarters in Nashville, Tenn.
interested in the history of post Civil War days and

has promised a contribution to the ALUMNI MAGAZINE 4

dealing with his own experiences as a Civil War

refugee. .
as ite

Mr. Leland H. Moss, ’87, prominent attorney of ‘
Lake Charles, Louisiana, was a welcome visitor at the
Alumni office during the last week of April. He found — ‘
particular pleasure in going through the pages of the :
Alumni Directory, where he found the names and rec- —
ords of his former class-mates. ‘Though only in Lex- —
ington for a day en route from Washington, D. Ct
his home, Mr. Moss found much pleasure in visiting —

old and familiar campus scenes.
eit eee

Joe Patton, ’22, famed as the youngest applicant to a
receive the title of Certified Public Accountant, spent
He is still located _
in Richmond where his professional and golfing rep-

the first day of May in Lexington.

utation is rapidly ascending.
Se:

Page Wilson, ’23, “Dick” Wilson on the campus, —
has been a welcome caller at the Alumni office during —
the past month. He is now located at Staunton, Vir- —
ginia, which he finds more accessible to lexington +

than Danville, where he had been located.
* ok

The pulpit at the Lee Memorial Episcopal Church

in Lexington has been filled by three visiting W. and 3

L.. alumni during the Spring. Rev. John E. Way-
land, °14, missionary stationed at ‘Tsingkiangpu.
China, in this country on furlough, delivered an able
sermon on mission work early in February. Rev.

Dr. W. Cosby Bell, ’07, from the faculty of the %
Episcopal Theological Seminary at Alexandria, Vit-
ginia, preached at the historic little church the last 4
Rev. B. L. Ancell, ’95, mission-
ary and teacher at Yangchow, China, just arrived in
the United States on furlough, filled the pulpit at am

Sunday in March.

interesting service in April.

S. Umbeller, 20; R. A. Lewis, 16. _
Harry Moran, '14; J. C. Rivers, '16; M. B. Rogers, a
17; FE. B. Vinson, ’23; Roy Bryant, 19; C. W. Me _

* pba t

Mr. McDonald is Chief —
Engineer of the N., C., and St. L. Railway Company a
He is keenly —

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

Professor Graves Honored; Has Faught 52 Years

Professor Charles A. Graves, ’69, for twenty-six
vears an instructor of law at the University of Vir-
einia, was honored April 2nd at the Harvard Club at
. dinner given by the combined New York alumni of
the Universities of Virginia and Washington and Lee.
Before Professor Graves joined the Faculty of the
Virginia institution he taught at Washington and Lee
for a first twenty-six-year period. He is 76 years old.

lohn W. Davis, last Democratic nominee for Presi-
dent, who was toastmaster, called Professor Graves
“one of the greatest teachers that ever lived.” The
first speaker, Dean William R. Lile of Virginia, said
the ordinary teacher’s life was humdrum, toilsome and
cloistered. “But Professor Graves,” he asserted, “had
the enthusiasm for teaching that transfigures a job
that is liable to dwindle away into tedium. To seek a
parallel I must go to St. Francis of Assisi.”

Dean Harry D. Campbell of Washington and Lee
told how Professor Graves first qualified as a teacher
of English and modern languages. ‘‘He entered Wash-
ington and Lee in 1865, was a student under Robert
EK. Lee, and took Robinson prizes in Latin, Greek,
Mathematics, English, Philosophy and Modern Lan-
guages,” said Dean Campbell. “Not until 1873 did
he get his LL.B.
teaching other subjects.”

William R. Vance, an instructor at the Yale Law
School. referred to Professor Graves as “one of the

Harry

old, delightful type of College professors.”

 

 

His law studies he carried on while

St. George ‘Tucker, representative from Virginia,
‘old professor and friend” at the speak-

‘

praised his
ers table.
Among those present were George Gordon Battle,
W. H. Moreland, Dean of the Washington and Lee
Law School; Dean T. W. Swan of the Yale Law
School, Dean Huger W. Jervey of the Columbia Law
School, S. G. Gibbony, President of the Thomas Jef-
ferson Association, and Walker D. Hines, Director
General of American railroads during the war.
Other W. & L. alumni attending were: Earl W.
sibb, ’25; Wm. R. Burton, ’17; John W. Drye, ‘19;
Armond C. Lopez, 17; Clarence L. Sager, 18; D. R.
Snively, ’23; Lewis Tyree, ’15; E. B. Vinson, ’22
H. Lawrence Brooke, °15; Forrest Hyde, ’22; Philip
M. Payne, 08; John M. Pomberton, ‘25; Wm. R.
Perkins, "95; Harrison M. Robertson, 14; Lindsay
Rogers, ‘12; Dr. Geo. Bolling Lee, 93; Leonard ‘I
srown, ’20; Julian S. Gravely, 08; W. F. Myers, ’17;
L.. Paul Bryant, ’14; D. G. Eristoff, °25; Wm. R. Hy-
man, ’12; Lindsay R. Henry, ’24; B. A. Judd, 93; E.
A. Quarels, "98; Marion W. Ripy, ’08; Al St. John,
24; G. D. Terry, ’17; Thornton W. Allen, Jr., ‘12;
A. H. Burroughs, ’88; Stuart Chevalier, ‘07; John P.
Kast, ‘91; Henry Gaines Hawn, ’87; H. R. Haw-
thorne, 10; Francis T. Reeves, 04; Silas Mason, ’98;
O. I. Johnson, °16; Randolph FE. Tyrell, ‘21; W.
Davis Conrad, 00; Dr. Wm. E. Dold, ’74; Prof. W.

R. Vance, °95.

’

4

 

N. Y. AtuMNrI DINNER To C. A. GRAVES

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

NEW COACH HAS COLORFUL CAREER

J. P. “Patt” Herron, for four years star end on the
University of Pittsburgh eleven, second All-American
choice in 1915 and 1916, ace in the American Avia-
tion during the World War, assistant coach to “Pop”
Warner at Pittsburgh in 1920, 1921 and 1923, head
coach at Indiana University in 1922, head coach at
Duke University in 1925, assumed his new duties as
chief football mentor of the “Big Blue” team this
spring.

Herron began his football career at Manessen High
School in South Pittsburgh, where he played for three
years. From there he went to the University of Pitts-
burgh, where he soon won a reputation as one of the
outstanding players of the country. In 1913 and 1914
he played under Coach Duff, and in 1915 and 1916,
his two greatest years, continued his phenomenal ca-
reer under the famous “Pop” Warner. The last two
years he was elected by Walter Camp for an end posi-
tion on the second All-American eleven.

Herron was studying law when America entered the
World War, but left his books and was among the
first to enlist for service. He entered the aviation and
went to France in the fall of 1917. He served over-
seas for fourteen months, a good part of that time
being spent in actual battle. At the end of the war
he returned to America, and in 1919 finished his law
course at Pittsburgh. That fall he played _profes-
sional football with the team representing Massilan,
Ohio.

He served as assistant coach at Pittsburgh under
“Pop” Warner in the fall of 1920 and 1921, and dur-
ing the winter and summer practiced law in the Smoky
City. During 1922 he was head coach at Indiana Uni-
versity, but he returned to his alma mater, Pittsburgh,
in 1923 and again assisted Warner.

Prior to Warner’s departure from the University
of Pittsburgh to accept a position at Leland Stanford,
he asked Herron to go to the coast and serve with him
there. ‘“Pat’’ had to refuse, however, on account of
his extensive law practice which he had built up since
his graduation.

Last fall, Herron coached football at Duke Univer-
sity, where Jimmie DeHart is now director of athlet-
ics. Herron and DeHart played together on the Pitt
eleven in 1914, 1915 and 1916, and like DeHart, Her-
ron uses the famous Warner system in his coaching.

 

KAY THOMAS SIGNED AS ASSISTANT
COACH

E. P. Davis to take Entire Charge of Freshman
Athletics.

J. K. Thomas, captain of the Generals’ football
team last fall, and at present president of the Athletic
Council and a senior in the Law school, has been

   
    
   
    
  
   
     
   
   
    
 
  
  

chosen by the Athletic Council as assistant to Heag
Football Coach ‘Pat’ Herron for the 1926 Seasor ny
Forest Fletcher, head of the Department of Physic
Education, announced recently. Thomas has _playe
an end on varsity elevens here for the past four yeg
during which time he earned a wide reputation _
an All-American mention by the late Walter ump
on his mythical eleven. He, together with “Tex” Til- a
son, captain of the 1924 team, assisted Herron in the
spring training grind which ended Friday.

FE. P. Davis, who has coached freshman footh:
teams for several years, and who has also assisted with
varsity teams when not busy with the frosh, was
signed by the Council at the same time to take cha an
of freshman athletics for the year 1926-27. his is
considered a forward step for the University, as here-_
tofore no one man has had the yearling teams under |
single supervision.

7
ee
i
3
€
bd

>
a

W. AND L. TAKES LEAD TO CURB SPRING ~
FOOTBALL a

Forest Fetcher, Chairman of Committee Will Propose
Rebel g to Southern Conference.

Washington and Lee will take the initiative in a-
movement to abolish spring football practice in the —
Southern Conference, Forest Fletcher, chairman of —
the Faculty Athletic Committee, announced. ‘This ace
tion will be pushed at the next meeting of the confer- —
ence, which will be held in December. =

This project will be fostered by the local authorities —
in order to combat the growing allegation of over-em- 4
phasis on football in colleges today. Realizing that
action by this University alone would be suicidal in j
attempt to build winning teams, Mr. Fletcher believes —
that action binding upon the entire conference should —
be taken. a

At the same time local athletic authorities went on —
record as opposing any further extension of spring 3
training in any form whatever. Suggestions includ- —
ing practice games between institutions having athletic ss
relations have recently come to the attention of the —
committee, and it was in order to quiet discussion on
this matter that its position was made public. ;

1926 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Sept. 25—Lynchburg College, here.

Oct. 2—West Virginia at Charleston,
Oct. 9%—Princeton, there.

Oct. 16—Kentucky, there.

Oct. 23—Georgia Tech, there.

Oct. 30—Open.

Nov. 6—Virginia, there. ;
Noy. 13—V. P. I. at Lynchburg.

Nov. 20—Maryland, here.

Nov. 25—Florida at Jacksonville.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

The Baseball Season

The diamond aspirations of “Dick” Smith and the

ardent fans were low with the first unfolding of
spring. Dut after two weeks of practice optimism
prevailed. Krom the large amount of untried and

unseasoned material a creditable machine was evolved.
Such strong teams as Pennsylvania, Rutgers and Cor-
nell were met and defeated handily, although these
northern teams had emerged victorious in most of
their other southern encounters. The followers of
the Generals were jubilant. Folliard and Wilkinson,
recruit pitchers from last year’s freshman team, were
going good while Jones and ‘Tipps, also sophomore re-
cruits, ably completed the battery behind the plate.
The veteran, Maben, turned in three wins and one tie
game in these initial encounters.

Then the deluge. Cracking under the strain, the
annual encounters with Virginia, Lynchburg and V.
P. I. were lost in rapid succession, though the tables
were turned against Davidson College with “Snake”
Maben on the mound.

With more seasoning and experience the present
Varsity nine will develop into the best that has rep-
resented the Blue and White in several years. Con-
sidering this lack of experience the present season has
Most of the players have
two more years to play. Under the able tutelage of
“Dick” Smith and “Cy” Twombly, the brilliancy of
play which was exhibited at the opening of the season
should become characteristic in all of their games for

not been unsatisfactory.

the next two seasons.
The season’s results were as follows:

April Pennsylvania, 8—-W. & L., 9
. Pennsylvania, 4—W. & L., 6
I—_W. & L., 8
4—W. & L., 6

2
3
5 Rutgers,
S Cornell,

 

R. D. MABEN, Jr.

 

 

April 9 Cornell, I-W. & L.,_ 1
“15 Richmond, 5—W. & L., 7
“17 ‘Virginia, 5—W.&L., 2
ROR» Dag 6—W.& L., 3

J—W. & L., 6
6—W. & L., 5
I—W. & L,., 12
9—-W.& L., 8
9—-W.& L., 4

“24 ~Lynchburg,
“. 28 Virginia,
“29 Davidson,
Mie ae

5 Guilford,

” 8 M.C.of Va, 1—W. & L., 2
“10 Maryland, S—W.&L., 3
“11 Maryland, S—W.& L., 9
et ee: Oe, 4—W. & L., 5
“13 Fordham, 6—-W.& L., 3
“15 Rutgers, —W. & L.,

 

LINDBERG SIGNED BY WEST VIRGINIA
CLUB

W. E. “Gus” Lindberg, star portsider of the Blue
and White nine in past years, has come to terms with
the Martinsburg, West Virginia, club of the Blue
Ridge league, for the 1926 season, according to word
sent out by officials of that club early this week. It is
known that the West Virginia club has negotiated
with Lindberg for the past two years, and he is con-
sidered a real prospect for a berth this year reports
State,

Last year, he signed with the New York Giants, but
was framed by them to the Norfolk club of the Vir-
Sinia League. ‘The early part of this year he was at
the Giants’ training camp, but was sent to Little Rock
by McGraw. As he had been approached by the
Martinsburg club, however, Gus tried and was able

to secure his release from the Arkansas organization.
He accepted the terms of the Blue Ridgers, and re-
ported there April 26.

“BABE” SPOTTS GETS ON ALL-SOUTH
ATLANTIC

suford Blair, basketball coach at V. P. I. honored
“Babe” Spotts, center on the Generals’ state cham-
pionship team by placing him on the All-Star South
Atlantic basketball team. The South Atlantic team
as picked by Blair is as follows: Cobb, North Caro-
lina, forward; Dear, Virginia Tech, forward; Spotts,
Washington and Lee, center; Devlin, North Caro-
lina, guard; Supplee, Maryland, guard. Wilson was
placed on the second team. Urmey received honor-
able mention.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 3 a

URMEY WILL CAPTAIN GENERALS’
TOSSERS

Frank W. Urmey, ’27, was elected to captain the
1927 basketball team, at a’ meeting of the lettermen
Wednesday evening.

Urmey, who played at guard position during the
entire season, with the exception of the first two or
three games, achieved the captaincy of the local
court squad after only one year on the varsity. Al-
though on the practicing squad last season, he was
not seen on the floor during contests. This year he
showed remarkable development early in the season,
however, and under the careful tutelage of Coach
Smith, and with the impetus given by his natural
fighting spirit, Urmey soon established himself as a
regular starter in every game. Captain-elect Urmey
is a member of Alpha Chi Rho social fraternity, and
lives at Miami, Florida.

 

SPRING PRACTICE ENDS

Tilson and Thomas got a bath; the football togs
will get one next week, and the coach has gone home
to Pittsburgh. After the intense spring football
training of six weeks, made necessary by the new
Southern Conference ruling, the new men let off
steam by drubbing the coaches’ attaches, Thomas and
Tilson, in the mud. Somebody ought to have some
mud beside themselves, the candidates. thought, be-
cause they have had their share this spring.

Following yesterday’s drill, Coach Herron told his
men that they had done their work well and that he
would be ready to see them out early next fall.

Coach Herron and his wife left for Charlottesville
to see the Cavalier-General baseball squabble there.
Then they went home where the coach will change
his jersey for a wig and gown, because Pat Herron
is a lawyer when he is not a coach.

 

PRICE MADE CAPTAIN OF BOXING FOR
NEXT YEAR

W. S. Price was elected captain of the boxing
team for the 1926-27 season at a recent meeting of
the team. Price boxed in the welterweight class
this year, but expects to box in the 135 pound divi-
sion next year. He is a member of the Lambda Chi
Alpha fraternity, freshman council, and is on the
Ring-tum Phi staff.

NEW MEN SHOWING UP WELL FOR
BOTH CREWS

Both Albert Sidney and Harry Lee boat clubs are
holding daily practice for the annual spring races to
be held during Finals. There is a wealth of mate-
rial out for both crews, thirty-five men being out
for each. While the new men reporting are inexpe-
rienced, many are showing up well in practice.

BASKETBALL CARD FOR NEXT SEAsc .
NEARS COMPLETION 4

The varsity basketball schedule for the 1926-27 sea
son, as submitted to and approved by the Athletic.
Council, will see several teams which were not repr,
sented on this year’s schedule meeting the Generale
next season. In addition to these changes, the pre s
Christmas northern trip will probably include four
games, according to present place.

The card to date is as follows:

 
 
  
    
    
   
  
    
 
   
     
   

Dec. 17—Maryland, there.

Dec. 18—Open, away.

Dec. 20—Open, away.

Dec. 21—Open, away. .

Jan. 7—Bridgewater, here.

Jan. 10—William and Mary, here.
Jan. 13—U. of Richmond, here.
Jan. 14—Maryland, here (pending).
Jan. 22—N. C. State, here.

Jan. 29—David and Elkins, here.
Feb. 4—North Carolina, here.

Feb. 11—Duke University, here.
Feb. 12—V. P. I., there.

Feb. 15—South Carolina (pending).
Feb. 19—Virginia, there.

Feb. 23—V. P. I., here.

Feb. 26—S. C. tournament, Atlanta.

 

 

CARTER ELECTED MANAGER 1927
BASKETBALL

J. D. Carter, ‘27, was elected manager of the 1927, |
basketball team of the University by the Athletic —
Council. At the same time, L. J. Thompson and J. —
W. Alderson, Jr., were chosen as junior assistants —
from a large list of sophomore candidates. This is —
Carter’s fourth year on the campus, and while here ©
he has achieved honors in several branches of ac-_
tivities. He is a member of Omicron Delta Kappa, —
honorary leadership fraternity, Phi Delta Phi legal
fraternity, 13 Club, is business manager of the Trou- |
badours and of Fancy Dress, and is a member of —
Phi Kappa Sigma social fraternity. His home is in ~
Denton, Md.

 

Announcement has been received at the Alumni —
Office of the removal of the law firm with whom —
Honorable John W. Davis is associated, from 15
Broad Street to 44 Wall Street, New York City.

 

The Richmond News-Leader recently contained —
a portrait of an alumnus, Frank Moore, 92, who is —
a member of the house of delegates, and in a short —
sketch it said: “While only in his second term in the 2
house, he is considered one of its more conservative —
leaders. He was especially prominent in the debates —
on the appropriations bill.” |

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ae

Lexington’s New Hotel

go those who have suffered inconvenience and
discomfort from the inadequate and often over-
crowded hotel facilities of Lexington the construc-
tion of the new and modern Robert E. Lee Hotel will
be of intense interest. Substantial progress has al-
ready been made on the new building. The old Lex-
ington Hotel on Main Street has been razed to the
ground, foundations and complete basement excava-
tions made and work above ground begun.

The new hotel will be modern and fire-proof, con-
taining seventy-two outside rooms and fifty-two baths.
The building will be seven stories high, fully equipped
with finest furnishings and will be imposing and at-
tractive in design. In addition it will have four
stores fronting on Main Street and an attractive bil-
liard parlor.

Upon completion, including furniture and fixtures,
the hotel will cost approximately $400,000. It will
be owned by three Richmond capitalists and operated
by Mr. Thomas Gresham, president of the corpora-
tion, who also owns and operates the Hotel Richmond
and the William Byrd Hotel at the State capital.
The builders expect to have the building completed
by September 15, 1926,

 

 

 

NEW METHODIST CHURCH IN CITY OF
LEXINGTON

The old Methodist Church building on Main Street
is fast being razed to make way for the construction
of a beautiful new building, which is due for com-
pletion August Ist.

The new structure will be constructed of red
brick at an approximate cost of $75,000.00. ‘The
outside dimensions to be 112 by 67 feet. The audi-
torium will be 60 by 75 feet, and will seat 800 peo-
ple, with a capacity crowd of 1,000, assuring relief
from the present cramped conditions.

The Sunday School building will be constructed
at the rear of the main auditorium and will consist
of four floors. The first floor is to be given over to
the Washington and Lee Bible class and the inter-
mediate department. The student room will be so
constructed as to seat 75 boys. ‘The second floor
will be occupied by the primary and junior depart-
ments, while the third floor will be used by the adult
department, The Golden Rule (men’s) Bible class
will have the entire fourth floor, which will accom-
modate between 150 and 200 people.

"he new church will be an asset to Lexington,
and will give added prestige to its already enviable

Name for
ame tor good churches and _ schools.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ropert E. Lee Horen

 

 

JOURNALISM STUDENTS IN NATIONAL
CAPITAL AT PRESS CONGRESS

Eight students and Professor R. B. Ellard of the
Lee Journalism school, attended sessions of the Pan-
American Press Congress in Washington recently.
‘ys .
hey were the only school of Journalism delegates
attending the convention.

More than three hundred journalists attended the
Congress, which was held in the Pan-American
building. A majority of the prominent South Ameri-
can papers were represented, and a number of promi-
nent American and Pan-American journalists, and
Pan-American diplomats were present. The opening
address was delivered Thursday morning by Presi-
dent Coolidge.

Professor Ellard and the Washington and Lee
students were the guests of those in charge of the
convention, and attended all sessions, being admitted
to the Congressional press galleries, the Washington
newspapers, and the Senate as a courtesy of the As-
sociated Press.

Those who made the trip, in addition to Professor
Ellard, were J. S. Jones, G. C. Olson, Robert Tay-
lor, W. M. Garrison, Carl Foss, Bryant Evans, John
Stanard, C. E. Branham and W. R. Bishop.

4

“4. . THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 4s

SOUTHERN COLLEGE’ FEDERATION
ELECTS W. & L. STUDENT

Kenneth A. Durham, of Washington and Lee, was
elected president of the Southern Federation of Col-
lege Students at the final meeting of its third annual
convention which closed in Lexington May Ist. He
succeeds Edgar Jones, All-Southern football star, from
the University of Florida.

Other officers elected were: Robert Whitaker, Em-
ory University, vice-president, and James F. Pinkney
of Davidson, secretary and treasurer.

The next meeting of the federation will be held at
the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Kentucky.

W. E. Tilson, president of the student body of
Washington and Lee, declared that the election of
Durham was one of the greatest honors that could
come to Washington and Lee. He declared that his
election was especially noteworthy in that practically
all of the delegates to the convention are presidents or
presidents-elect of the student bodies which they rep-
resent.

“Tex” also stated that a large number of the visit-
ing delegates had expressed to him their opinion that
this convention was the best that has yet been held.

Durham is a member of Phi Delta Theta, Omicron
Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, White Friars, and rep-
resents the junior class on the Executive Committee.
He has won his monogram from two years on the
boxing team, is a member of the football squad, and
has rowed on the Harry Lee crew for the past two
years.

DEBATERS LAUDED FOR FINE WORK
THIS SEASON

The executive committee and the student body
have expressed their praise and gratitude to the
Washington and Lee forensic teams which have
come through a difficult schedule without a defeat.
The John Hopkins University, North Carolina Uni-
versity, Gettysburg College, and University of Ari-
zona debating teams were defeated by the Washing-
ton and Lee teams.

The following communication was received from
President Tilson concerning the record of the debat-
ing team:

“On behalf of the executive committee and of the
student body, I take this opportunity and method in
expressing our sincere appreciation of the success-
ful and praiseworthy record made by the W. and L.
forensic teams under the able tutelage of Dr. S. B.
Neff, who has labored diligently and who has made
possible a very bright future for W. and I
sically.”

. foren-

W. E. Tiison,
President of the Student Body.

TROUB SHOW SCORES TRIUMPHS ON
ROAD =

Unaccustomed as the Troubadours are to returp-
ing with enough pocket money to supe train fare — #
or the next meal, the members of “For Pete’s
Sake,” eighth and said by many to be the best,
musical comedy produced by the organization, pleas-
antly surprised all by playing four towns with
financial success, heaping showers of praise on the
Business Manager, Jack D. Carter. But immeasur- —
able is the favorable impression the Troubadours made _
upon the enthusiastic audiences—everywhere the show —
was heralded and reviewed as one of the best in —
years, and alumni and spectators in each city have —
asked that the organization return next year. |
It is difficult to pick out the stars of the produc- —
tion, as each member of the cast and chorus per-
formed commendably, according to the criticism by
the audience. W. A. MacDonough and FE. D. Reeves —
won their way into the hearts of every spectator. 4
As the comedian, “Pete Goof,” MacDonough, dis- |
played exceptional dramatic ability, and his mere ap- |
pearance made the audience “cut a frock” without —
further adieu. And “Euc” Reeves, excellently por-
traying the difficult vamp role, delighted his specta- —
tors with his “shapeliness” and high voice. V. Van —
Holloman and Churchill Mellen, hero and heroine —
par excellence, pleased with “If I Knew,” and “All —
That I Want, Dear, Is You.” Max Turk, with his —
Charleston was well received everywhere. q

  
   

 

NECESSARY REPAIRS AND IMPROVE-
MENTS BEING MADE

Over five thousand dollars has been spent by the
University on exterior improvements. The columns —
of the famed and beautiful colonnade have been re- —
plastered and painted. The ceiling has also been —
painted and an_ indirect lighting system installed —
above the columns. Old George, his pedestal and —
tower has been brightened by fresh white and green, —
while all of the exterior wood work of the main —
buildings has received a coat of paint. a

In line with the authorization of the fireproofing —
of the Lee Chapel by the Board of Trustees, a steam,
line from the power house has been run down to the
Chapel, thus dispensing with the separate furnace in —
the basement which was a constant fire menace to the
Chapel and the many treasures hung there. 4

Also, the rooms in the left wing of the main build- —
ings, vacated by the Chemistry department, are being
revocated and refitted for additional office space and
for the Y. M. C. A. |

 

John F. Hendon, °’24, is with the Jenkins’ Lum- ‘
ber Company in Birmingham, Alabama.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Faculty Introductions, No. IV

ForREST FLETCHER, E.E.
Professor of Hygiene and Director of Athletics

An introduction of Forest Fletcher to Washington
and Lee alumni may be sufficiently made by pointing
to the composite record of the Generals in all branches
of sport for the past five years. But his contributions
to Washington and Lee since his first employment 1n
1914 go beyond the field of Athletics.

Coach Fletcher is a fearless man. He formed the
Washington and Lee Ambulance Unit, and went to
France as its top sergeant. His courage was a con-
stant inspiration to the Unit. Then, at the completion
of his ambulance service he entered the 12th Division
Infantry of the French Army. Returning to Wash-
ington and Lee he sought to have the University en-
ter the Southern Athletic Conference. Popularly op-
posed on every side, he stood with President Smith
and saw Washington and Lee become a charter mem-
ber in 1921. Since that time, serving on various Fac-
ulty committees for the control of student functions,
he has stood courageously for the enforcement of rules
and order. It takes the greatest bravery and tact to
stand alone against popular opinion, but Fletcher is
fearless, yet popular!

Perhaps it is the blood of pioneering ancestors in
his veins. He was born at Lincoln, Nebraska in 1888 ;
educated in the public schools of Chicago; graduated
at Notre Dame with E.E. in 1912, and later taught
school at Cedar City, Iowa, and Mitchell, South Da-
kota. He was captain of the track team of Notre
Dame; went abroad as a member of the Olympic team
in 1912; ran the hurdles, dashes and relays. At col-
lege he was also a basketball player and high jumper.
He came to Washington and Lee as coach of track
and basketball and gymnasium assistant to Dr. Pollard
in 1914. ‘Two years later he was appointed associate
Professor of Physical Education. Then the War.

Upon the resignation of Dr. Pollard in 1920, Coach
Kletcher was appointed Head of the Department of
Physical Education. Four years later he became full
professor in that department. He now has charge of
all inter-collegiate and home athletics and is head
Coach of track. Since the formation of the Southern
Conference, there has never been a complaint on the
eligibility of a single member of Washington and Lee
teams participating in inter-collegiate contests. The
record of victories in these contests is imposing. Ath-
letics have been put on a paying basis, due largely to
the employment of “Dick” Smith, °15, as graduate
manager. The new stadium has been built—the new
playing field nearly completed—so goes the record of
“Fletcher’s Progress !”

Today we hear much about the over-emphasis of
college athletics—of the football menace and the “prob-

 

 

 

Forest Fiercuer, E.E.

lem of Athletics”.
ous Athletic problem. Freshmen and Sophomores are

Washington and Lee has no seri-

required to take courses in Physical Education and
Hygiene. ‘There, under the tutelage of Coach Fletcher,
they begin to participate in athletics for the health
building sport of it. Every senior must be able to
swim before he graduates. Class and Fraternity ath-
letics are fostered. Inter-collegiate athletics are reg-
ulated. For instance, spring football practice has be-
come a menace. Fletcher was the first in the South-
ern Conference to take steps toward curbing it. There
is no danger of athletics overbalancing the college: ma-
chine with the indomitable Coach in charge.

In 1919, Coach Fletcher and Miss Laura Powell

(Continued on Page 16)

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

NEW FRAT RUSHING PLAN

The Interfraternity Council has gone on record as
favoring deferred rushing, the following provisions
having been adopted:

The period of deferred rushing covers a period of
fourteen days, said period to extend from 6 A. M.
Frosh registration day until 6 P. M. of second
Wednesday thereafter.

(a) The period of deferred rushing shall be di-
vided into three parts:

Ist Silence—(6 A. M. Frosh registration day un-
til first Monday thereafter).

2. Rushing—(Until following Monday 6 A. M.).

3rd Silence—( Until following Wednesday 6 P.
M.).

(b) Definition of periods: During first and third
silence periods there shall be no rushing.

Rushing defined as entertaining, engaging in social
conversation, in written correspondence, in any form
of communication, direct or indirect (except formal
salutation) on part of any Fraternity or any agent
thereof.

(c) Rushing period—During second period there
may be any social contact between fraternity men
and rushees and rushers may be approached in dis-
cussion of fraternities up to but not including the
point of extracting a pledge or offering a bid (no
freshman shall be allowed to spend a_ night in a
fraternity house during this period).

 

MILLER ELECTED TROUB PRESIDENT

Officers to lead the 1926-27 Troubadours were
elected at a meeting held last night in the Trouba-
dour room. The following officers were elected: E.
H. Miller, president; R. W. Martin, business man-
ager; F. B. Waters, production manager; I. Lebow,
publicity manager; E. D. Reeves, vice-president,
Dramatic Club; R. G. Nichols, vice-president, Glee
Club; H. R. Cooper, vice-president, Orchestra; F.
B. Zimmerman, property manager; T. L. Harris,
costumer.

 

FACULTY INTRODUCTIONS, NO. IV
(Continued from Page 15)

 

Tucker, daughter of Honorable Harry St. George
Tucker, ’77, of Lexington were married. They have
three children—the third and the only boy was born
last fall. He is known as “Colonel Fletcher’, prom-
ising track candidate for 1944. The Fletchers have
recently moved into their new and beautiful home on
Mulberry Hill, overlooking the Athletic Field.

 

Sam Lawson, ’24, is an engineer in Orlando, Flor-
ida.

  
   
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
   
   
   
  

POLITICKIN’ HAS STARTED

Just as there are some signs of spring that ne
fail, so there are those that school is drawing to a
close. One of these is when the campus is dug up
annually, to allow the inevitable fixing of the heat-
ing system to Lee Chapel. Another is the campus
baseball game. Others are multitudinous, but on
that never fails is when politickin’ starts. ¥

And how does one know that it is here? M: et
the smile on the face of a potential candidate, a man |
who usually is a pessimist. Notice how another.
who seldom deigns to speak, gives the cheery greet-
ing. e
Notice the groups that gather and the discussio 3%
that soon turn to who the candidate for some pars
ticular office shall be. It is one never-failing sign ©
that the closing days of the school year are here. Ee 7

Politickin’ has started! ¥

ert

*

 

NEW PLAN PROPOSED FOR ELECTION ©
OF EDITORS

Men to Be Nominated by Board and Student Body
O fficers—Only Men So Nominated Eligible.

A new amendment has been debated by the Pub-
lication Board and the officers of the student body A
concerning the election by the student body of the |
editors and business managers of the various campus —
publications. ‘Though it has not as yet been drawn —
up, the points have been decided upon. 3

Nominations to these positions shall be made by
the members of the Publication Board, in conjunc-
tion with the officers of the student body. Two men —
will be nominated for each position. ‘To be eligible —
a man must have had at least two years’ experience —
on the staff. These two nominees will then run for —
the student body vote.

W. AND L. WILL BE WELL REPRESENTED —
AT BLUE RIDGE CONFERENCE ’

The largest gathering of college men in the South, —
the Blue Ridge Conference for Southern Students, —
which is held for consideration of great issues of —
life and for recreation, comes this year on June —
15-24 at Blue Ridge, North Carolina. Outstanding .
speakers of the United States and from foreign —
countries will address the assembly. Practically ev- —
ery college and university in the South will send —
from ten to fifteen representatives. | Washington
and Lee has a well equipped cottage, which will be —
filled with W. and L. men if the applications prove —
to be as large as expected. Anyone interested is —
eligible to attend.

 

C. W. Rex, ’24, is with the Rex-McGill Invest-
ment Company, of Orlando, Florida.

 

:
a
:
>

THE ALUMNI

LAST CEREMONIES PERFORMED FOR
C. GRAHAM RICE

A quiet funeral in the Presbyterian Church at 9
o'clock Wednesday morning, April 7th, marked the
last Lexington ceremony for C. Graham Rice, assist-
ant to the Treasurer of Washington and Lee. Rev.
j. J. Murray conducted the service. Members of
Rice’s fraternity, as well as a number of student
friends and townspeople were present,

Charles Graham Rice was born July 24, 1896, in
Richmond, Virginia, and received his high school edu-
cation in Washington, D. C. Prior to the World War
he was connected with the American Security and
Trust Company, Washington, D. C., and later saw
service with the army on the Mexican border. Dur-
ing the World War, he was again in the service, and
in September of 1919, he enrolled in Washington and
Lee University. The following year, 1920, Rice be-
came assistant to the Treasurer of the University. His
duties in this capacity prevented him from carrying
more than a few subjects each year, and he planned
to finish his work for the degree of B.S. in Commerce
this spring.

Following the funeral, the body was taken in pro-
cession by automobiles to Staunton, Virginia, from
where it was shipped to Washington, D. C. Burial
took place in Arlington Cemetery.

WORLD NEWS COMPLIMENTS JOURNAL-
ISM STUDENTS’ WORK

Newswriting students of Washington and Lee
University furnished material for a column in the
Roanoke /l’orld-News for two days recently.

The material was written by the students and sent
out under the direction of Prof. R. B. Ellard. All
material was original.

The following excerpt from a letter to Professor
Ellard from W. C. Stouffer, of the World-News.
indicates the reception given the column:

“Your boys sent me sufficient material for two
columns, so No. 1 column was printed yesterday
and No. 2 today. I liked the material fine and yes-
terday’s output was complimented from many
sources. Today’s column will be just as good, so I
guess it will be in for another round of applause.”

Mr. Stouffer goes on to say that because of the
hearty reception accorded the Washington and Lee
column. “Taps from the Generals,” Hollins College
has been asked to contribute an all-femme column,
similar to the one from here.

This marks the first time the class as a whole has

had any of its output in print in papers outside of
Lexington.

H. Austin Spang, Jr., '25, is employed in the Me-
chanics Bank of New Haven, Conn.

MAGAZINE 17

DR. LOFBERG ELECTED HEAD OF
ASSOCIATION

Dr. J. O. Lofberg, professor of ancient languages
at Washington and Lee, was elected president of the
southern section of the Classical Association of the
Middle West and South at the sectional conference
held at Knoxville, Tennessee, April 22-24. The retir-
ing president is H. M. Poteat, of Wake Forest College.

A. P. Wagener, of Roanoke College, was elected
secretary-treasuter of the organization.

The Classical Association of the Middle West and
South is composed of professors of Latin, Greek and
classical history from these two regions. The south-
ern section of this association comprises all of the
states of the South. Practically every college, uni-
versity, and girls’ school in the South, as well as a
large number of high and prep schools, are represented
in this organization.

The program of the convention dealt with matters
along cultural and pedagogical lines which were of in-
terest to teachers of classical subjects. Dr. Lofberg
read an original paper to the convention on “Greco-
Roman Comics.” Charles Knapp, of Columbia Uni-
versity, editor of several texts in use by students of -
Latin, and a well-known authority on the classics, gave
a talk on “Cero and Liberal Education.”

Dr. Lofberg came to Washington and Lee as a pro-
fessor in 1924 after having served for two years as
professor of Latin at Queen’s University, Kingston,
Canada. Previous to his professorship in Canada he
was a member of the faculty of the University of
Texas.

Dr. Lofberg holds the degrees of bachelor of arts
and doctor of philosophy.

 

ELEVEN WASHINGTON AND LEE STU-
DENTS ELECTED TO PHI BETA
KAPPA

Eleven students of the graduating class of more
than 100 at Washington and Lee this session, hav-
ing recognition of their high scholarship at the head
of their class, coupled with fine general standing,
have been elected members of the Gamma _ chapter
of the Phi Beta Kappa fraternity at Washington
and Lee, the national honorary scholarship fra-
ternity.

They appear alphabetically and not in order of
class standing. A. R. Coleman, Smithfield, Va.; O.
Crenshaw, Atlanta, Ga.; J. B. Funk, Brunswick,
Md.; R. L. Gordon, Louisville, Ky.; F. S. Jesson,
Mansfield, O.; C. W. Lowry, Jr., Clinton, Okla.; D.
S. McCorkle, Murat, La.; E. A. Nabors, Mansfield,
La.; F. P. Shull, Erwin, Tenn.; B. G. Watkins,
Lynchburg, Va.; and F. B. Williams, Lake Charles,
La. One alumnus was elected to the fraternity, Dr.
Wilfred Eldred of California, class of 1909.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Minutes of 1925 Reunion--Law Class of | |

Tucker Hall, Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va.

June 8, 1925
2M.

The first formal meeting was held in Tucker Hall,
2 P.M., June 8th, 1925, with President Geo. W.
Chaney, of Roanoke, Va., in the chair. C. P. Light
was appointed temporary Secretary to act in place of
Secretary N. D. Smithson at the meetings. Mem-
bers present were Geo. W. Chancy, Judge Herbert
Gregory, Wm. Engleby and Roger Winbourne of
Roanoke, Va.; O. T. Kaylor of Hagerstown, Md. ;
D. S. Kilmer, J. Nevin Kilmer and C. P. Light of
Martinsburg, W. Va.; John C. Moomaw of near Roa-
noke, Va.; and B. P. Ainsworth of Lexington, Va.
John L. Campbell, who had also attended the pre-
liminary meetings, was called out of the city on this
date.

O. T. Kaylor was the only member who brought
his wife with him; also his young son, Tom.

A telegram was read from Jno. F. Brown of EI-
kins, W. Va., expressing regret that illness prevented
his expected return.

After brief speeches by O. T. Kaylor, Jno. C. Moo-
maw and D. S. Kilmer, J. Nevin Kilmer was elected
as Class Secretary for the next five years.

Upon motion of O. T. Kaylor, the secretary was
instructed to arrange for a Class luncheon at 1 P. M.,
on Tuesday, June 9th, at the Dutch Tea Room. Mo-
tion was passed inviting the wives of members of the
Class to attend the luncheon.

Election of the other Class officers was postponed
until the luncheon meeting and adjournment was
taken until then. *

Dutch Tea Room,
June 9th.

The following attended the luncheon: O. T. Kay-
lor and wife, B. P. Ainsworth and wife, G. W. Cha-
ney, J. C. Moomaw, R. M. Winbourne, D. S. Kilmer,
J. N. Kilmer and C. P. Light.

Members Herbert Gregory and Wm. Engleby were
prevented from attending by business engagements in
Roanoke.

After the luncheon, O. T. Kaylor was elected Presi-
dent of the Class for the next five years.

A motion was passed fixing the date of the next
Class reunion as Commencement of 1930 on account
of interference of terms of court at the November date
suggested.

A motion was passed instructing the Class Secre-
tary, J. Nevin Kilmer, to convey to retiring Class Sec-
retary N. D. Smithson of Asheville, N. C., the hearty
and sincere appreciation of the Class of his efficient
work as Secretary of the Class for the past five years

  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
   
 
   
  

and that a copy of the minutes of this meeting be sent |
him. .
A motion was passed authorizing the Class Presi.
dent and Secretary, working together, to select the day —
and time of day for the first meeting of the Class at_
the next reunion and send notice to each member ; _
least a month before the date of said first meeting and
also instructing them to codperate with Campbell and
Ainsworth of Lexington in arranging a luncheon or
dinner during the next reunion.
The meeting adjourned at 2:15 P.M., June me,
1925. 4
CLaupE P. Liew, |
Temp. Sec’y.

re

-_-—-

NUMBER OF VISITORS AT LEE CHAPEL —
CLIMBED UP DURING WINTER |

Mrs. Albert S. Edwards, custodian of Lee Me-—
morial Chapel and the tomb of Lee, reached Lexing- 4
ton recently after an absence of two months. She —
took up again her duties as custodian. The figu
kept at the chapel of visitors during her absence
showed about as much increase in the winter mon
as there was in the fall and summer. In January of
this year there were 322 visitors compared with 111 _
in 1925; February was a more popular month, with —
461 visitors registered. In February of last year 4
only 268 registered.

_  ————-———  -—

ATHLETIC ELECTIONS PROVE CLOSE
RACES

The election of officers and members of the Wash —
ington and Lee Athletic Council was of great interest —
to the Student Body as is gathered from the fact that —
658 votes were cast on the first ballot and 641 on —
the second. L. J. Rauber, the unopposed candidate —
for the presidency of the Council, was elected with —
613 votes, while T. P. Stearns, the unopposed can-—
didate for the vice-presidency, was elected with a —
vote of 633. E. T. Sanders was elected secretary
and treasurer. W. N. Jolliffe, Jr., and F. W. Ure ©
mey were elected member-at-large on the second —
ballot.

 

After a stay of three years in the oil fields of At-_
kansas, Dr. H. L. Hamilton, ’89, is again practicing
medicine and surgery at Port Gibson, Miss. He_
writes us that while his practice was remunerative —
in the oil fields, they are so changeable it hardly ©
pays one to attempt to follow them. He is a loyal
citizen of Port Gibson and says that his city ranks —
second to none in the United States for citizenship.
He is educating two boys for the medical profession. —

 

rvew gtr Ra,

"Eg es

mie

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

The Directory Delivered

An event of interest in Newcomb Hall the 10th of
May was the receipt of the first completed volume of
the long promised Alumni Directory and Service Rec-
ord. It was pridefully inspected by the entire staff of
the Alumni Office, enthusiastically reviewed by Presi-
dent Henry Louis Smith and complimented by Dean
H. D. Campbell.

Exactly eleven months and ten days after delivery
of the book was first promised, the Directory is being
mailed to over six hundred subscribers. Four hundred
yolumes remain to be sold to alumni. Orders with
remittance of $4.50, by check or money order, pay-
able to the Alumni, Incorporated, should be sent to
the Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va., at
an early date.

The volume contains six hundred pages, hand-
somely bound in cloth, printed in clear, readable type
and is profusely illustrated, with the records of ten
thousand former Washington and Lee students, start-
ing with the year 1749. It is indexed alphabetically
and by classes. It is prefaced by a series of interest-
ing articles on the history and progress of Washing-
ton and lee and contains numerous supplementary
records of campus activity since 1869.

An idea of the Directory’s scope can best be ob-
tained from the table of contents and list of full page
illustrations, as follows:

CONTENTS

Washington and Lee, Past, Present and Future,

President Henry Louis Smith 9
A Decade as President of Washington and Lee, Dr.

George H. Denny 13
The Washington and Lee Ambulance Unit, Sergeant

Forest Fletcher 17
Recollections of the S. A. T. C. at W. & L.; Capt.

J. C. Harper 23
Trustees and Faculty 2
Some Reminiscences of Washington College; Professor

Alexander Nelson
Alumni Records—Classes 1749-1926
The Lexington Law School, 1849-1866

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

_
wo mm &
ao pm =)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Class Organization; Officers 445
University Finances; from the Treasurer's Report.......... 452
Statistical Table 455
The Literary Societies—Final Orators 456
The Student Body 457
Roll of Honorary Degrees Conferred 459
Members of Teams and Crews, SOO IGRB A kite cece 464
The Alumni Association 507
The Y. M. C A. 511
The Troubadours........ 513
Phi Beta Kappa .. 314
Omicron Delta Kappa 521
Delta Sigma Rho 525
Howard Houston Fellowship Winners 527
Mapleson and L. S$. Birley Scholarship Winners............ 528
Vincent L.. Bradford and Franklin Society Scholarship
Winners ..... 529
Taylor and J. J. White Scholarship Winners............. 530

James McDowell and Young Scholarship Winners........ 531
F. O. French and James Wilson Scholarship Winners. 532
University Prize Scholarship Wimnmers.........cccccccccccesseeeeees 532
Hamilton, Crenshaw and Draper’ Law _ Scholarship
RE a Se es jocks
Johnson, Edward Thompson Company, American Law
Book Company and Blackstone Institute Law Prize

 

 

aire oie i ols seniptulewanens pudeovegedabonande doin
University Prize Essay Wiinmer...................cccccccoscccsscccssscees 538
Book Prize and Robinson Prize Medal Winners............ 539
Cincinnati Orator’s Medal Winmers........cc.cccccccccceccseceeeeees 540
The Southern Collegian, Editors and Managers............ 541
a een scien 543
The Calyx—Editors and Mamagers....0.........cccccsccsssssssosseeees 544
The Ring Tum Phi, Editors and Managers..................00 546

LIST OF ILLUSTRATIONS

An Early Panorama of the University................cccccscccseeeee 2
Tablet in Chapel to the Liberty Hall Volunteers........ 3
POSH IIE BLOUSIG SSETLIEN ,.....: 5... socerincosenaabecievouneoabanalien s
DE, RE PNIUG ois. occchscekectudnncsssttibecrutoocaiaeeeee ones 9
W. & L. Ambulance Unit in Action... ccccccsscceees 14
Sgt. Forest Fletcher—W. & L. Ambulance Unit............ 15
Capt. J. C. Harper, Commandant W. & L., S. A. T. C. 36
PrOneeeer  memennee © 1,  NGISO I. oak. ncceecaccscsvecececetsnaceceadeiaiies 37
Dr. Henry Ruffner, President 1836-1848............ccccccceceees 44
Dr. George Junkin, President 1848-1861 .........cccccccccceeeeees 45
William A. Anderson, Rector 1915-1924.......cccccccccseeeeeees 102
Valentine’s Recumbent Statue of General Lee... 103
General Robert E. Lee, Soldier and College President.... 106
General G. W. C. Lee, President 1871-1897.................00. 107
William L. Wilson, President 1897-1900...................0..0000 226
John Randolph Tucker, Dean of Law 1893-1897............ 227
John Lyle Campbell, Treasurer 1877-1913... 238
Harry Donald Campbell, Dean of the University............ 239
FREE Pe. © COREE Fee RN ios cc cancacscecudin dis ocstebinsinstinalel 452
Miss Annie White, Librarian, 1895-1922... 453
William Hayward Moreland, Dean of Law................ 460
Judge E. C. Caffrey, President of the Alumni, Incor-

a ee ata 461

 

LETCHER PLACES IN SWIMMING MEET
AT NAVAL ACADEMY

J. S. Letcher, Washington and Lee swimming cap-
tain, took fifth place in the 50-yard dash free stroke
and sixth place in the 50-yard back stroke at the na-
tional swimming meet, held at the Naval Academy,
Annapolis, Maryland.

The contestants at the meet were acknowledged as
the best collegiate swimmers in the country, all sec-
tions of the United States being represented in the
races. The different schools in the South were in-
vited to participate in the meet. Washington and Lee
sent Letcher to Annapolis as he is probably the best-
short-distance swimmer in this section.

The 50-yard free stroke was won by Lewis of Rut-
gers, while Rule of the Naval Academy came second.
Letcher, although being merely a few inches behind
the winner, took fifth place, and in doing this he de-
feated the mid-western champion. The 50-yard back
stroke in which Letcher took sixth place, was won by
©’Connor, of Stanford, an Olympic champion.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Worth Preserving ?

One of the prettiest customs ever practiced at
Washington and Lee has so slipped, not only from
our daily life, but from our memories as well, that
few can even recall it.

Shortly after General Lee’s death, a Washington
and Lee student each day was selected as a Watcher
at the tomb in the Chapel. He met visitors, and as
the representative of the Youth to whom General
Lee gave rich, though closing years of his life, he
fostered an ideal.

A practical and potent part of man’s immortality
is the stimulus and precept his life leaves behind him.
As the young man sat in the mausoleum, much of
the quality of Lee’s character, the nature of his prob-
lems, decisions with which he met his times of test-
ing, the spirituality of the heritage which is Wash-
ington and Lee’s came home. It came unostenta-
tiously, without preachment or boom from an organ
loft. But it came deeply.

The vigil was short; only a day for each student
—the enrollment, half a century ago, was 375. It
not even savored of sentry duty. It was a watch of
dignified respect, maintained by the representative
of a group of collegiate gentlemen, at the last rest-
ing place of one of the great gentlemen of the world,
of one of this university’s great builders, and one of
the great characters of time.

It was a vigil looked forward to, in the Seventies,
by Washington and Lee men. And through them,

  
   

vicariously, the whole South watched at the side o f
their leader. aa
Our mental pictures and our thoughts each a
do much to influence our cast of mind, and to mola
our tendencies of character. Little wonder the
Greeks attained the heights they did—their ideals
were always before them in their marble gods ani
goddesses ! a
These pretty customs are worth considering. They
often are the things which stick when we are out of
school. The present is a door through which the
future slips to the past. And as we grow older ¢ rd
lonelier and faces slip away from us—and echoes
and mames and scenes—there should come a joyous |
recollection as we look back on a sunlit valley of
days that were dream-days. -
Old chords, struck in college life, should resound
in ears attuned to the music of the Infinite; and, if
the imagination of our ideals has been caught, the e
will come back to us memories of Washington and
Lee’s traditions, of the Honor System, of decisions
made, of quiet little victories achieved—just such
experiences which customs like this one provide—
and they will grow more priceless with the years.
The University now has nearly 900 men. They
still represent the South. A Watcher once dura

the four years—more often, if one desired.

Isn’t this custom worth re-establishing ?
Editorial from the Ring-tum Phi.

       
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 

 

 

Alumnus of ’79 Praises Tomb Vigil Tradition

The following letter was received from an alumnus
of the class of ’79, who had served his turn watch-
ing at the tomb of General Lee. This ancient cus-
tom was called to the attention of the student body
by an editorial in the Ring-tum Phi:

“Editor Ring-tum Phi,
“Washington and Lee University,
“Lexington, Virginia.

“Dear Sir:

“Referring to your excellent editorial in a recent
issue of the university paper, with the title “Worth
Preserving, the writer, one of those who had the
privilege and honor of watching at General Lee’s
tomb in the olden days, would like to reinforce with
emphasis what you have so well said. One of the
finest object lessons and one that is an unique and
invaluable asset of Washington and Lee, is the statue
and tomb with all they mean in connection with the
life and character of the great leader of his people
and teacher of their sons. It should ever be before

 
 
 
 
   
  
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

the eyes of the stream of youth passing through the.
halls of his school. Nothing could lift the young —
men to a higher plane or inspire them with loftier —
ideals, than a day of quiet spent in these hallowed |
associations and impressive surroundings. When the
rude Cossacks from the North stood before the
Apollo Belvidere in Rome they unconsciously took —
the proper pose and drew themselves up to the heroic
posture, af

“What men see is what they think, and what they
think is what they do. The vigil at the tomb, for
one day, will be a never-to-be-forgotten chapter in —
their lives. It would bring them in close contact —
with the life of the dead and fire them with the lofty —
purpose and character of General Lee as he lived. ©
You have done a real service to the University and —
the student body by your effort to photograph on the —
retina of their souls the picture of such a life. ,

“Yours for Washington and Lee,
“BR. W. MacCorkte, 779.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

D. H. Cantrell, ’87

Of interest to our readers 1s a brief sketch which
we have procured concerning the activities of D. H.
Cantrell, of Little Rock, Arkansas, from the time he
left Washington and Lee in 1887 to the present time.
While Mr. Cantrell’s modesty prompts his declaration
that he has not “set the world on fire with any evi-
dence of signal ability, but has pursued the even tenor
of a mediocre way,’ we feel decidedly inclined to dis-
agree in view of the evidence before us of a splendid
and fruitful record—one of service and distinction.

At Washington and Lee, Mr. Cantrell was a mem-
her of Sigma Chi fraternity, among whose members
William C. Ludwig, Charles M,. Crutchfield, William
M. Reid and George H. Gorman were his very close
friends. Upon his return from the University, he
began privately the study of Law, first in the office of
Honorable John M. Moore, one of the leaders of the
Bar in Arkansas and then in the office of Judge Henry
Clay Caldwell, who was at that time Judge of the
United States District Court at Little Rock, and later
presiding Judge of the Court of Appeals of the Eighth
Circuit. He also attended lectures given at night at
the Little Rock Law School by the leading members
of the Bar.

After two years of practical experience and study,
he was admitted to the Bar and subsequently began
At that time he _ be-
came a partner of the Honorable Joseph W. House,
who was U. §S. District Attorney for the Eastern Dis-

the practice of his profession.

trict of Arkansas, and remained his partner for four
years. This association was then dissolved by mutual
consent, and another partnership formed with J. F.
Loughborough, a young man about his own age, and
the two attorneys gradually built up a good practice
together. In 1905, they were asked to become mem-
bers of the firm of Rose, Hemingway and Rose, then
the leading law firm in the State of Arkansas. Subse-
quently, the name of this firm was changed to Rose,
Hemingway, Cantrell & Loughborough, retaining to
the present that name and style. When Mr. Cantrell
and Mr. Loughborough entered the firm it was com-
posed of Judge U. M. Rose, ex-president of the Amer-
ican Bar Association, and one of the original three
commissioners to the Hague Conference appointed by
[Theodore Roosevelt : Judge Wilson FE. Hemingway,
who had retired from the Supreme Bench of Arkansas
to become a member of that firm; and Mr. George B.
Rose, a son of Judge U. M. Rose, who has since be-
come quite distinguished both in his profession and in
general literature.

Mr. Cantrell became first Assistant-Attorney, and
later General Counsel for the Little Rock Railway &
Electric Company, and then its President, as well as
General Counsel. When the Company was acquired
by the Arkansas Central Power Company, who now

 

D. H. CANTRELL, °87

 

 

operates the street railway electric power and heating
properties in Little Rock, he continued as its General
Counsel and President.

While Mr. Cantrell’s practice has in a way been gen-
eral yet most of his time has been given over to corpo-
ration work. He is chief legal adviser, called the
“Chancellor”, of the Diocese of Arkansas of the Prot-
estant Episcopal Church, having been appointed to this
position by Bishop James R. Winchester, also a Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus of the class of 1874.

In 1917 he was drafted as State Chairman for the
American Red Cross, which organization had prac-
tically no agents or organization in the State of Ark-
ansas. He left the practice of his profession for a pe-
riod of four months and gave his entire time to that
work, organizing the State thoroughly and gaining
nearly 200,000 individual members for the Red Cross.
His chief assistant in that work was Miss Catherine
Emrich, who he afterwards married.

For a number of years Mr. Cantrell has been a
member of the Vestry of Christ Episcopal Church,
being now the junior warden, and has been director in
many of the charitable institutions of the City and
State. He is a Knight Templar and a 33 degree Scot-
tish Rite Mason, and also a Shriner. He is a member
of the Quapaw Club, a men’s down town club; the
County Club; Little Rock Athletic Association, and

other minor clubs.

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Editorial

Charles Graham Rice

Except the more recent graduates, few alumni knew
Graham Rice, assistant to the Treasurer of Washing-
ton and Lee. Yet he was an integral part of the Col-
lege administration—faithful, efficient, friendly. Seek-
ing an education, he entered Washington and Lee in
1918, of necessity paying his own way. Experience
and ability qualified him for the post soon opened to
him. ‘The demands of the position were so heavy
that only a few courses could be taken each year.
Slowly, never painfully, work toward the coveted
Bachelors Degree was passed. Meanwhile he was
steadily advanced in his position.

During the long and severe illness of Mr. Penick,
w.ost of the work in the Treasurer’s office was capa-
bly discharged by Graham Rice. Outside of his work
and study, Masonry claimed his chief interest. He
served the order with distinction, was honored with
election to its high offices.

A participant in many campus activities he was pop-
ular with his fellow students. In all things his pleas-
ant personality and disposition was predominant.

Weakened by an earlier attack of influenza he fell
ill Saturday March 27th. Pleuro-pneumonia devel-
oped. His mother and father were summoned from
their home in Washington, D. C. Little hope was
held for his recovery. Then the short span of his ac-
tive life, seven years of it devoted to the service of
Washington and Lee, was ended. His _ personality
survives in happy memory.

 

Appreciation

For several years a “labor of love” has been ren-
dered by Professor John Graham, ’11, in his supervi-
sion and direction of the Troubadours, combined musi-
cal and dramatic organization of the campus. Sim-
ilarly, Professor Carl Gill, °12, has assisted the
Troubadours and directed the annual Fancy Dress
Ball.

Time was, when the campus dramatic club, or Glee
Club, fluctuated with the personnel of its leadership.
There was nothing permanent except unpaid bills from
an unsuccessful tour. Under the Troubadour consti-
tution a permanent and lasting organization is pro-
vided. It was founded in 1919. Success has attended
it from the first, due chiefly to Mr. Graham’s unselfish
endeavor and consistent interest. He has written
musical scores, lyrics, whole plays, directed orchestras
—in fact, carried on the entire hodge podge of work
dependent upon a Producer and Director.

This year the Troubadours completed a very suc-
cessful season, showed signs of being able to stand
alone—recompensed, in a way, the time and energy
spent upon it by John Graham. To him much hitherto
unbestowed credit is due.

Finals! !

From time immemorial Alumni Day at Com-_
mencement has been the time for alumni to return —
to the college campus. A Mother’s Day, if you~
please, when thoughts turn back to college days,
when pilgrimages are made to the shrine of Alma
Mater. There are no especial attractions this year, |
except the host of returning classmates and the ale
lurement of old and storied scenes. Class reunions —
will be the chief interest of the day. The classes of |
the eighties will meet to pay tribute to William M,
Morrison, ’87, and will unveil a tablet at the Chapel
in his memory. Officers of the class of ’21 have —
called for a five year reunion. W. H. Moreland, © -
LL.B., '06, D. H. Pipes, B.S., 06, and Albert Steves, —
Jr... B.S., ’06, have joined hands in calling for a
twenty-year reunion of their classes. In addition,
the classes of 98, ’99, 00, ’01 and of *17, °18, 719 and
‘20 are slated for reunions according to the new re-—
union schedule. There is a warm welcome awaiting —
every returning son—a desire to serve—attention to.
his welfare and comfort, but no elaborate program |
of entertainment, no surfeiture of attention. Alumeial
Headquarters will be established in the lobby of
Lee’s Dormitory. Rooms in that dormitory will be —
reserved for returning alumni upon advance request.
very alumnus is urged to come back. y

  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
 
  

 

At Last a Fulfillment

Copies of the Alumni Directory have been mailed to —
six hundred paid-in-advance subscribers. The Alumni —
office has been chagrined and chastened by the numer- —
ous postponements that it has had to make in the de- —
livery of the book. Now all excuses discarded, it is —
happy to announce that the Directory is off the press, —
bound, wrapped and mailed. q

The volume contains six hundred pages, handsomely —
bound in cloth, printed in easily legible type on ex- —
cellent quality book paper. Many interesting features —
other than the biographical records of alumni are in-_
cluded, as is evidenced by the table of contents printed 4
elsewhere in this issue of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE. ©
Mistakes will be found—many of them avoidable. —
Other features might have been added, but it stands —
as the most complete directory and gazetteer ever pub- —
lished by Washington and Lee. 4

Subscribers to the Directory are urged to get in
touch with their classmates listed therein and thus re- —
establish old friendships. The Alumni office also SO- —
licits letters of constructive criticism from subscribers, —
or if they find the book commendable a word of rec- —
ommendation to other alumni of their acquaintance
will be appreciated.

 

r

eC? F

+

7 ae

a a a ee ae
é

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE <i

Alumni Scholarships ;

Every local W. and L. alumni organization with
seven. or more members has the privilege of recom-
mending a promising High or Preparatory School
graduate for a first year scholarship at Washington
and Lee. The scholarship is worth $80, deductible
from the regular tuition fees. It is of sufficient
value to be of great importance to a deserving and
ambitious prospective college student of limited
means.

The award of this scholarship not only affords
alumni an opportunity to help some young friend,
but also to serve their Alma Mater. With a large
waiting list each year, it is of highest importance for
the college authorities to select the most desirable ap-
plicants. The recommendations of alumni aid mate-
rially toward that end.

President Henry Louis Smith has contributed the
following suggestions to prospective students and
their parents, which may well serve as a_ guide to
alumni recommending students:

Six SuGcGESTIONS TO AmBITIOUS YOUNG AMERICANS
AND To THEIR PARENTS

Three Things to Do

1. Get the habit of self-direction, self-decision,
self-motive-power. Learn to paddle your own canoe.
Get the fixed habit of driving your own life-car.
Cultivate a strong self-reliant individualism, with a
fighting-power which is habitually aroused rather
than frightened by warring opponents or a_ hostile
majority-vote. Remember that “fake leadership” is
in easy reach of any demagogue who runs in front
of the crowd, whether that racing “leader” is a half-
grown American on a swarming playground, or a
white-haired “politician” in a swarming metropolis.

Unless you are an Individualist of a self-reliant,
courageous type you'll never become a genuine, ef-
fective, high-powered Leader either of Men or of
Movements.

2. Get the habit of loving and appreciative coop-

eration with other people.

The fighting individualist who lacks this may be-
come an honored and regretted Martyr, and in char-
acter and impulse may well deserve to be so honored
and canonized, but in the ordinary rush of human
nature and human events he'll never “carry the
crowd” his way or win the victor’s crown in this era
of “democracy.”

Never let envy or jealousy or other people sway
your attitude, your judgment, your purposes, or
your actions.

Or, to put this in more positive form:

Be Unselfishly Public-Spirited, rejoicing in the

happiness and prosperity of others, always ready to
invest your time, zeal, and means in advancing the
happiness and culture and moral level of the whole
population, and willing always to rate Public Good
of greater importance than Private Gain.

Acquire at whatever expense or trouble the power
and the habit of recognizing, remembering, and_ be-
ing interested in Other People, their faces, their
names, their circumstances and families, and your
former meetings or conferences. An obscure village
bookkeeper in a fixed job and a fixed routine may
not specially need this habit and facility, but when-
ever, wherever and in whatever business or profes-
sion one aspires to be somebody, or do something
worthwhile or to win any kind of leadership i
swarming democratic America, this power and habit
should be added to his individualism to change a
probable failure and possible martydom into produc-
tive leadership and assured success.

3. Get the Habit of all-round intellectual Investi-
gation before Opinion or Action. This might be
worded, Become an Educated Citizen, whose _ busi-
ness, family affairs, politics and social duties are
controlled by thorough knowledge and trained intel-
ligence rather than by selfish greed, local prejudices,
local “loyalty,” inherited feuds, or the shifting whims
and “fashions” of a brainless “gang” or “party.”
It is the “main business” of a workshop like W. and
L. to manufacture and turn into the public service
Educated Citizens of this Robert E. Lee type.

To sum all three in one:

Be an Educated, Public-Spirited, Co6perative Citi-
zen, determined with divine help to do your full
share in lifting our beloved America to a higher and
richer level of Christian Citizenship and Self-gov-
erned Democracy.

Three Things to Avoid

1. Don’t hate and dodge every kind of “hard
work” and be always “looking for a good time.”
The only road to big success and managing ability
and important positions in the competitive world of
today is through grinding work, endless drudgery,
and resolute self-denial. The self-indulgent and
“very popular” handshaker, always in hot pursuit of
“a good time,” may be the idol of “the gang” and
the favorite of the playground or of the dancing-
floor, but such a traveler is soon ditched as a worth-
less or broken-down car on life’s busy highway.

2. Don’t think you’re “lucky” when a teacher gets
sick, or you can get “excused” from an exam, or
can manage to “get by” your tests without knowing
anything of the subject. If a football coach, while

 

(Continued on Page 24)

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“BOB” McDOUGLE, ’19, DECLINES
IMPORTANT APPOINTMENT

Robert B. McDougle, Parkersburg attorney, who
was proffered the position of assistant to Arthur Ar-
nold, United States attorney for the northern district
of West Virginia, has declined to accept the appoint-
ment, it has just become known.

Mr. McDougle on investigating the duties of the
federal office to which he was to be appointed found
that his private practice would suffer if he accepted
and after explaining his position to District Attorney
Arthur Arnold he stated that he could not see his way
clear to accept.

Because of the large amount of business handled
through the district attorney’s office those connected
with it are required to give most of their time to gov-
ernment matters and Mr. McDougle found that his
private practice would suffer if he accepted the as-
sistantship. He would be required to spend consid-
erable time away from Parkersburg attending court
in other cities.

Mr. McDougle announced last week that if he ac-
cepted the appointment it would be on a tentative basis,
that he would not permit his private practice to suffer,
and he finally decided that he could not accept.

Mr. Arnold stated that nothing definite has been
decided regarding the appointment of an assistant to
the place Mr. McDougle was expected to fill.

 

W. W. GAINES, ’90, HONORED

A unique compliment was recently paid to Mr. W.
W. Gaines, Atlanta attorney and member of the Board
of Education of the Atlanta Public Schools. The oc-
casion was a visit by Mr. Gaines to the Davis Street
School, where he went to deliver promotion certifi-
cates to the 25 children who were being advanced to
the Junior High School.

On reaching the school, he found everything staged
for a small Commencement exercise, the program con-
sisting of songs, recitations and addresses. A sixth
grade student, acting as president of the student body,
presented the visitor with a diploma of the same style
as those issued to students. Following this, a girl
student presented Mr. Gaines with a beautiful bouquet
of flowers.

The diploma, with a heart and ribbons emplematic
in the upper left hand corner, contained this inscrip-
tion: “Mr. William Winston Gaines, having for
years practiced the laws of Human Kindness in faith-
fully rendering service in Friendship, Love and Loy-
alty, merits this diploma. In testimony whereof, our
signatures are hereunto affixed, January 29, 1926.”

Mr. Gaines accepted the tribute, stating that he
would rather have it than any honorary degree that
could be conferred by any College. “It is such ex-

; . 9
can you make? If you can’t make a “passing grade

     
  
    
  
  
   
   
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
 
  
    
 
  

periences as this,’ he said “that compensates one fo J
the arduous service on the Board of Education.” aq

Mr. Gaines takes a deep interest in the public _
schools, and has served for a long time as chairman of
the City Board of Education. He is a native of Ken-
tucky, receiving his academic education at Georgetown
College of that state, and graduating in Law at Was —
ington and Lee in 1891. He settled in Atlanta, Geom
gia, soon after completing his education, where he be-
gan the practice of Law. He has been moderator of
the Atlanta Baptist Association, four times, vice-presi- 4
dent of the Southern Baptist Convention, chairman
of the City Democratic Committee, president of the |
Carnegie Library board, and is now serving his third
term on the City Board of Education, of which he is
the Senior member. _

 

ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIPS
(Continued from Page 23)

 

training you for a big game which is to make or
break your future athletic standing, were to let you
sit in a comfortable rocking-chair every time your —
“squad” was sweating on the training-ground, would —
you call yourself a “lucky young man” or a hope
and childish fool-baby certain to be a failure on the
gridiron ?

99

3. Don’t think it a sign of “manliness,” of “inde- 4
pendence” or of “daring” to evade or scorn or tram-
ple under foot the college “regulations,” the state or
town “laws,” and anything else which presumes to —
enchain your glorious “personal freedom.” The jails —
and penitentiaries and poor-houses and lunatic asy-
lums of civilization are full of just such backwoods _
imbeciles and unthinking savages as such young law- |
breakers are rapidly becoming. Mistaken measure- —
ments and erroneous calculations can often be cor- —
rected, but an organic moral disease like the above is
almost sure to be fatal or to leave one a_ hopeless —
cripple on life’s rushing highway. . e

These, young Americans, are fundamental —
“DON’TS.” On a strict honor-system, self-exami- —
nation covering these three problems, what grade

on these questions, let me tell you in all friendliness

that, however many “units” your kindly teachers
may pile up for you, you are certainly “not yet —
ready” for college life and college training at an in-
stitution like Washington and Lee.

 

Harry M. Wurzbach, ’94, representative of U. S.
Congress from San Antonio, Texas, addressed the
Pan-American Journalistic Convention in Washing-
ton, D. C., on April 10th, making his address in —
Spanish.

Ca

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

William Davis Conrad, ‘03

From the time he received his A.B. degree at
Washington and Lee in 1903, and subsequently an
LL.B. at the Harvard Law School, Mr. W. Davis
Conrad has pursued a course of achievement and
distinction.

In 1906, he started his practise in New York City,
associated with one of the largest of the New York
law firms, Masten and Nichols, with whom he re-
mained until January, 1912, when he formed his own
frm of Conrad and Hopkins, going into general
practise and specializing in the trial and settlement
of large cases.

On coming to New York, he joined. the Squad-
ron A Cavalry, and had been an active member of
that organization for nine years, when it was or-
dered to the Texas border by President Wilson, in
June, 1916.
to serve with the organization on the border, where

He retired from his practise in order

they remained for.six. months at McAllen, Texas, on
patrol duty. When this. country went into the War,
Mr. Conrad entered the training camp at Fort
Meyer, and procured a commission of Captain of
Artillery, serving as such for six months at Camp
Meade, Maryland. Following this he was_ trans-
ferred to San Antonio, Texas, to serve in the organi-
zation of one of the fifteen Cavalry Regiments re-
quested by General Pershing at that time. In this
service he became Adjutant of the 304th Cavalry.
After seven months of drilling and training of this
organization, it was converted into Field Artillery.
He served at the School of Fire at Fort Sill, Okla-
homa, and upon the completion of that course was
selected as an Inspector General to go over with the
next Division. "The Armistice was signed before
this Division reached the embarkation depot.

On being mustered out of the Army, Mr. Conrad
returned to New York, and became Admiralty Coun-
sel with the United States Shipping Board in New
York City, for a period of two years, when he again
entered the general practise of law under the present
firm name of Carson and Conrad, 27 William Street.

A loyal alumnus of W. and L,, Mr. Conrad is an
active and enthusiastic member of the New York
Alumni Association, and recently originated the tes-
timonial dinner given on April 2nd in honor of Mr.
Charles A. Graves, ’69.
he was assisted by D. R. Snively, ’23, and Egerton

In getting up this dinner,

B. Vinson, ’23, who supported and aided him with
their cooperation. A more detailed description of
this dinner is found elsewhere in this issue of the
magazine. It was-an unusually successful and en-
joyable affair; Honorable John W. Davis remarked

to Mr. Conrad after the dinner that he had seldom

 

 

W. D. Conran, '03

 

heard speeches of such excellence at any dinner of
its kind.

Mr. Conrad is a member of the New York Bar
Association; the Harvard Club; New York South-
ern Society; one of the Board of Governors of the
Virginia Society; and the Niantic Club.

He says that golf is his hobby.

GILLIAM LITERARY AWARDS ARE MADE

The annual awarding of the Thomas Gilliam Lit-
erary Prizes for the best short story, the best poem,
and the best play written by students of Washington
and Lee was made by the contest committee of the
English department faculty, of which Dr. Moffatt
is chairman. ‘The 1925-26 awards as announced are:

The best story—Robert Taylor, Jr.; the best poem
—W. M. Garrison; the best one-act play—prize di-
vided between T. R. Hecker and R. G. Morrisy.

Charles A. Tutwiler, ’25, is practicing law with
Joseph M. Crockett in Welch, West Va.

26 THE AILUMNI MAGAZINE

W. and L. in Foreign Lands

Africa
Westminster Tobacco Co., Ltd.,
Sussex Street—Woodstock,
Cape Town, South Africa,
March 4, 1926.

 

Verbon E. Kemp, Esq.,
Washington and Lee Alumni Asso.,
Lexington, Va., U. S. A.

Dear Mr. Kemp:

Thanks for your letter of January 21st, from
which I note it is proposed to feature the doings of
W. and L. Alumni abroad in the May issue of the
ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

As much as I shall be interested to learn of the
achievements of others there is little to boast of as
regards my own. I was sent out to this country
early in 1917 by British-American Tobacco Company,
Ltd., and am by now Manager of one of this Com-
pany’s factories in Cape Town. Apart from success
in a business way my chief claim to fame lies in be-
ing a 9 handicap left-hand golf fan, and having
fooled a good looking Irish girl into becoming my
wife some years ago.

Cape Town, by the way, is quite a modern city of
some 200,000 population, and many hundreds of
miles south of the tropical interior, or the real
“Darkest Africa” of the average person’s conception.
[ am afraid, therefore, that any of the “native”
snaps taken around these parts would convey little
idea of sure enough Africa.

There are, unfortunately, few Americans resi-
dent here

 

no W. and L. men; nor have I come
across one since being out here. One, therefore,
reads with envy of the Alumni Clubs and meetings
back home in the larger cities and misses the good
fellowship of school days associates.

 

 

 

a

 

W. W. Smita, 713

 

 

Knclosed you will find New York draft for two
dollars and twenty-five cents for which please put
my name down for one year’s subscription to the
MacazinE. | have allowed an extra twenty-five
cents for foreign postage. As I wrote you some
time ago I paid for a copy of the Alumni Directory
when in Lexington on home leave last year, and am
looking forward to receiving my copy.

With kindest regards,

Wilbur W. Smith, *13 B.A.

 

 

 

A. P. C. M., Luebo,
selgian Congo, Africa,
5 March, 1926.
Mr. Verbon Kemp, Alumni Secretary,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia,
Les Etats-Unis d’Amerique.
Dear Verbon,

Ten thousand miles and two months for a letter to
cover that distance makes correspondence rather un-
certain. I am at present located at Mutoto, in the in-
terior of the Belgian Congo, nine hundred miles of
river travel and a hundred miles overland to get there
from the coast. However our isolation will soon be
a thing of the past with motor roads coming, an aero-

plane line already established over a stretch of 1500
miles and work being pushed to link us up with the
Cape to Cairo railroad. The wealth of the country in
diamonds, copper and radium, to say nothing of the
unexplored possibilities in lumber and _ agriculture,
make the commercial development of this section cer-
tain.

[ am with the Southern Presbyterian Mission which
covers a territory the size of North Carolina and Vir-
ginia with a population of about two million natives of
a comparatively high type. More than to any one man
the mission stands as a monument to the gifted labors
and statesmanlike policies of. a Washington and Lee
man, William M. Morrison (’89). Later J. M. Sieg
(01) worked out here for a number of years and

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

last year Armistead McMurray (719) has

during the |
Already he has made a forceful impression

come out. pre
on the Mission and he is marked for leadership in the

Christian development of Central Africa.

My work lies in developing our educational pro-
gram. With the rapid influx of Western civilization
perhaps the greatest difficulty comes in making the na-
tive people conscious of the fact that it cannot attain
to T
Western civilization—by adopting its language, clothes,
comforts and external characteristics—but that the
road to its racial achievement will lie in having West-
ern advance guide wisely in the building of firm foun-
dation of regular, systematic habits of labor and in-
dustry, these adapted to the environment of the coun-
trv and designed to develop the community along
health, agricultural, industrial and moral lines. Withal
the racial advance must be in the individual and in the
community a genuine expression in the fullest sense
of the Christian message with which we have come to

acial advancement thru assuming the veneer of

them.

Our location at Mutoto is delightful, fifteen hundred
feet above sea level and tho only six degrees below the
equator in an even temperature that never passes 85
degrees. We have a comfortable brick home and our
happiness was completed with the arrival of Frank J.
Gilliam, Junior, on 6 December, 1925.

In a position as isolated as this, one’s relationships
are limited and it results, I believe, in those interests
already established remaining deeper and warmer. |
have followed constantly with the keenest of interest
the inspiring advance of Washington and Lee and your
own splendid labors for its progress thru the develop-
ment of the Alumni Association. I am arranging to
have my subscription to the Alumni Bulletin for the
coming year sent you at once.

[ am sending you a picture of some Congo witch
doctors in their regalia

 

something that one sees much
less frequently now than heretofore.
With kindest personal regards,
Faithfully yours,
FRANK J. GILLIAM, '17.

 

 

 

 

NATIVE SCENE NEAR LUEBO

 

FRANK J. GinwtamM, °17

 

Stuttgart, Germany,
March 17, 1926.

Washington and Lee University,
Alumni, Incorporated,

Mr. Verbon FE. Kemp,
Lexington, Virginia.

Gentlemen :

Your letter of January 20, 1926, is before me, stat-
ing that in your May issue of the ALUMNI MaGa-
ZINE you want to feature achievements of Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni in foreign lands, and that you
would like to have a photograph of me with a sketch
of my activities in Germany.

After the World War, in July 1919, I was relieved
of my duty as Aid and Fleet Discipline Officer on
Staff of Admiral Wilson, Commander in Chief of
the Atlantic Fleet, and was ordered to inactive duty
U. S. Naval Reserve Force.
still, Lieutenant Commander as my connections with

My rank was, and 1s
the Reserve Force have not been severed. Return-
ing to Baltimore, where before the war I had _ prac-
ticed law, I decided to begin practice anew in one of
the County Seats, pending the time required to lo-
cate elsewhere, and chose Leonardtown, Maryland.
Here a partnership was formed with John T. Bris-
coe, Esq., Attorney, and we practiced under the name
of Hodgdon and Briscoe until November 1, 1923,
at which time I was appointed a Vice Consul de
Carriere of the United States of America and as-
signed to Prague, Czechoslovakia. From Prague I
was transferred to Stuttgart, Germany, in June 1924,
and. have been here busy with various consular du-

 

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

A. Dana Hopopon, 04
On the Grand Canal, Venice

 

 

ties, especially immigration to the United States.
The work is most interesting and affords a rare op-
portunity to study people and their customs. No
Washington and Lee men have crossed my path et-
ther in Prague or Stuttgart, but in reading over the
names of my colleagues in the service I see a num-
ber of Washington and Lee men. It would be a
pleasure, and it is not an improbability, if we should
fall in company.

During football season we, in the Foreign Service,
eagerly watch for the results of games. Sometimes
one of our colleagues may be an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee’s opponent. Needless to say, spirit
runs high. In Prague John Calnan, at one time
half-back on Georgetown, was a Vice Consul in our
office, and being more or less from the same football
section we knew the universities playing in the Cen-
tral Eastern States and spent a good deal of our
spare time doping scores.

As requested I am enclosing two pictures as fol-
lows: myself on leave in Venice, Italy, Christmas
1924, seated in a gondola; and the Z R III, now the
Los Angeles, flying over Stuttgart, Germany, on
trial trip July 9, 1924, and dropping a wreath over

 

 

 

 

 

THe Los ANGELES, OVER STUTTGART, GERMANY

the grave of Count Zeppelin, the inventor of this
type of airship.
| trust this is what you want. With regards to
all and hoping some W. and L. men will pull my
latch string some day.
Very truly yours,
A. Dana Hodgdon, ’04.

This is the first series of letters and sketches from Alums

in foreign lands. China will be featured in the summer issue
of the magasine.

OBITUARY

Archibald W. Houston, ’83, well known alumnus,
died several weeks ago at his home in Davenport,
He had many friends in Lexington circles,
The funeral
service was held at the home of his brother, Prof.
Hale Houston, ’95, and interment was in the Lex-
ington Cemetery.

lowa.
where he spent much of his youth.

H. Snead Powell, °93, attorney, practising in EI

Dorado, Arkansas, died suddenly at his office early

in March.

Joseph W. Rhodes, Jr., "11, prominent attorney in
Osceola. Arkansas. and one of the town’s best loved

citizens, died on February 7th, following an illness

of about a month. Beginning with a sinus opera-

tion, performed January 2nd, his condition was al-~

ternately better and worse, but hope for his recov-
ery was maintained until the day of his death.

Mr. Rhodes was educated at the University of
Arkansas and received his law degree from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1911. He was admitted to the bar
following his graduation and had since that time
been engaged in the active pursuit of his profession.
He was well known as one of the most spirited men
of his town and county and his passing leaves va-
cant a place on many executive boards of various
public institutions. He was superintendent of the
Sunday School of the Osceola Methodist Church;
director in the Bank of Osceola; president of the
Times Publishing Company; secretary of the Osce-
ola Natatorium; a member of the county board of
education and the county jail commission; formerly
a member of the city council; for a number of years
secretary of the Osceola Masonic Lodge, of which
he was an active member, and was recently made a
director of the St. Francis Valley Council of Boy
Scouts, in which movement he was most interested.

Joseph S. Tipton, °18, died March 21st in a Rich-
mond Hospital from brain trouble. Aged 29, he was
the youngest member of the Pulaski Bar. During
the war he was in the aviation service. He was past
exalted ruler of Pulaski Lodge of Elks and a Mason.

Charles Bernard Pritchett, Jr., the three-year-old

 

4 x
fy Ma ar 3G 2
v } eC .

 

 

i.9G 2->aney

one
Tyee or be FG

 

 

puee Pr ees

z
:

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

WATTERSON’S PORTRAIT IS GIFT OF
PIONEER’S WIDOW

Exhibition of a portrait of Henry Watterson, for
years editor of the Louisville Courier-Journal, was
one of the features of the S. I. P. A. convention
here. The portrait was hung over the mantle in the
Journalism building.

The picture is a gift of Mr. Watterson’s widow,
who now lives in Jacksonville, Fla. His autobiog-
raphy was also. presented, and two volumes of the
life of ‘““Marse Henry,” and a volume of his edito-
rials are placed beneath the portrait.

Mr. Watterson was known as one of
able editors the South has ever produced.

the most

c. H. MORRISETTE, ’14, MADE VIRGINIA
TAX COMMISSIONER

A dispatch by the Associated Press from Richmond
says:

Appointment of C. H. Morrisette, director of the
state legislative reference bureau, as state tax commis-
sioner, was announced here tonight by Governor Harry
F. Byrd. The appointment is effective tomorrow.

Mr. Morrisette will take up immediately the duties
as head of the state tax commission created at the re-
cent session of the general assembly for the purpose
of administering the new tax segregation plan. The
other two members will be the governor and the audi-
tor of public accounts, both of whom will be ex-officio
members.

“Mr. Morrisette is a well balanced man for the posi-
tion, having both the legal and practical qualifications
necessary for the work,” Governor Byrd said in an-
nouncing the appointment.

Mr. Morrisette is thirty-five years of age and was
born in Richmond and received his law degree from
Washington and Lee University, Class of ’14. For
the past seven years he has been director of the legis-
lative reference bureau. Governor Byrd pointed out

that in addition to teaching law at Washington and
Lee as a substitute in 1915 and in the summer school
in 1916, Mr. Morrisette had practiced the profession
in both trial and appellate courts.

Since he has been with the legislative reference bu-
reau, Mr. Morrisette has given considerable study to
Virginia statutes. He revised the notes of the official
code of Virginia of 1919; edited the second edition
of Burks’ pleading and practice in actions at common
law (1921) and edited the general laws of Virginia
(1923).

It was pointed out tonight that the appointment of
Mr. Morrisette as tax commissioner was non-political.

THOMAS S. HUBBARD, ’25, KILLED
INSTANTLY

Driving on the beach near Jacksonville, Florida,
with two other boys, Thomas Hubbard was_ killed
instantly when the car in ‘which he was driving
struck a log, half buried in the sand, and turned over.
His companions, who were visitors from Massachu-
setts, were knocked unconscious but not seriously
hurt.

Thomas Hubbard was the only son of the late S.
B. Hubbard, Jr. He had only recently come home
to stay permanently after many years in school and
college, preparing for college at the Choate School
at Wallingford, Conn., and graduating last June from
Washington and Lee.

E. W. McCorkle, Jr., ’26, was elected valedicto-
rian at a recent meeting of the Senior class. Less
than thirty members were present. F. C. Bear,
president of the class, presided over the meeting.

McCorkle is a member of the Phi Kappa Psi fra-
ternity, Pi Delta Epsilon, “13” Club, White Friars,
and is editor of the Ring-tum Phi. He is from Rock-
bridge Baths, Va.

 

 

son of Dr. and Mrs. C. Bernard Pritchett, °13, died
on February 18th as the result of burns received a
few hours before, when his clothing coming in con-
tact with a small electric heater, caught on fire. The
child was alone at the time of the accident, the
mother having stepped out of the room a moment
for the purpose of getting some clothing. Attracted
by the screaming of the child she rushed back into
the room to find her son enveloped in flames from
head to foot. Before she could smother the flames
the child was badly burned. Upon the arrival of
Dr. Pritchett, ten minutes later, first aid was given
the little boy; but the seriousness of the burns made

it necessary for him to be taken to the hospital where
better facilities for treatment of the injuries could
be had. However, the shock together with the pain
was too much for the child to endure and he gradu-
ally sank into unconsciousness. He was dead within
four hours after the accident.

The mother suffered many burns about the hands
and arms while endeavoring to extinguish the flames,
and was prostrated at the sad calamity that deprived
them of their only child. Not only the immediate
family, but scores of friends into whose hearts this
charming little boy had smiled his way, experienced
profound sorrow at the terrible accident.

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

QUESTIONS

What do you think of the “tomb vigil” question
brought forth on page 20 of this issue of the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE? Is it worth preserving? Send your opin-
ions to the Alumni Secretary.

* *

Another question, shouldn’t the University definitely
sponsor and actively undertake the collection and pres-
ervation of all records, memorabilia, etc., of Robert
E. Lee and the Lee family?

* «K *

What do you think should be the limit of Washing-
ton and Lee’s growth in numbers? With nine hun-
dred students, are we growing too large, or should we
try to go beyond that number.

* * *

Should all of our inter-collegiate athletic contests
be played either on the home athletic field or else on
the home field of our opponents instead of in some
large nearby city where a larger attendance may be

expected ?
8: «

What is your chief interest as an alumnus in return-
ing to the campus? Do you prefer to return during
Commencement, at the annual home-coming game, or
at odd times during the college year ?

* *« *

Have you made a Will?—And if so, did you make
some provision for Washington and Lee? Don’t you
think that every alumnus, whatever his means, should
make some provision in his Will for his Alma Mater?
It has been pointed out that upon probating a Will
the sentiment expressed in any bequest, however small,
would be of inestimable value to the University.

* kK *

We want your opinions. Answer any of the above
questions or else bring forth your opinions on other
college matters by writing to the Alumni Secretary and
opening discussion through the pages of the ALUMNI
MaGAZINE. Let’s start it in the next issue! !

x *« *

Alumni are asked to coOperate with the MAGAZINE
editors by sending in news clippings or items of in-
terest about themselves or their neighboring alumni.
The MaGazineE is dependent upon such personal news
for its most interesting material. There is no element
of publicity-seeking in it. It is simply a valuable serv-
ice.

WEDDING BELLS

Mr. and Mrs. Briscoe Wall of Milledgeville, Geor-_
gia, annource the engagement of their daughter, |
Olive Bell, to Sidney G. White, ’20, of Waynesboro, _
Virginia. The wedding will take place in June. -

   
      
  
  
  
  

The rumor has reached us that Paul O., Whitfield,
‘24, is engaged to Miss Betty Hurd of Newark, New
Jersey. They expect to be married in the fall.

Announcement has been received of the en
ment of Henry K. Hill, Jr., ’25, to Miss Elizabeth —
Gregory. The wedding will take place in June. 3

Davis Bell, ’29, and Miss Louise Couch, both of —
Lynchburg, were married in Reidsville, N. C., on
April 10th. ‘The couple left Lynchburg in a Chrysler
U-Drive-It at noon and arrived in Reidsville that —
evening. ‘Their short honeymoon ended at 9 o'clock —
Sunday evening, when they returned to Lynchburg. —
Mrs. Bell is a senior in the E. C. Glass High School —
in Lynchburg, and is one of the social leaders of her |
set. Bell returned to the University Monday morn-
ing to resume his work.

Charles E. Wiley, Jr., ex-’27, and Miss Katherine 43
Anderson were married February 27, according to —
announcements received by friends here. Wiley, ©
whose home is Saltville, Va., was unable to attend —
school this year because of ill health, and accepted a —
position as a teacher in a high school near his home. —
Mr. and Mrs. Wiley will make their home in Salt- —
ville after May 1. 4

7

“JOHNNY” McVAY VISITOR HERE

“Johnny” T. McVay, ’25, diminutive quarterback —
on General football teams in recent years, was a ViS-_
itor on the campus for several days recently en —
route to his home in Huntington, West Va. MeVay
left here last fall immediately following the close of —
the gridiron season, and has since been located in
Florida. During the early part of the winter he —
played football in the peninsula state, but of late has —
been engaged in the real estate game. During his —
short stay here he was kept busy greeting his many —
friends and renewing old acquaintances of past years. —

Only a few hundred copies of the Directory remain —
to be sold. If you have not ordered yours make your
check or money order for $4.50, payable to the Alumni,
Inc., and send to the Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897,
lexington, Va.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

Alumni of Yesterday

Joun C. Catnoun, 772

In 1850 a dark shadow fell upon the State of
South Carolina especially, when her distinguished
statesman, classical scholar and beloved citizen, John
C. Calhoun, fell asleep. He had filled the offices of
Vice President and Senator of the United States,
and was recognized as one of the ablest leaders in
the ranks of Democracy.

That same year, on December 4th, was born iN
Richmond, Alabama, a nephew, to whom was given
the name of this esteemed and loved Statesman.
Many hopes gathered about the cradle of the infant
life. and they had their fruition in his rich and beau-
tiful character; now in the retrospect of his finished
earthly course, greater lustre is added to the name.

From early boyhood he conscientiously conse-
crated his talents to the cause of education, complet-
ing his High School course in his native state, and
matriculated at Washington College under General
Robert E. Lee, being there at the time of General
Lee’s death when the name of the college was
changed to Washington and Lee University. His
splendid young manhood caught lofty visions in the
environments of the classical and religious influences
of Lexington. He graduated from Washington and
Lee in 1872 with the degrees of B.S. and C.E., and
in 1873 received the degree of M.A. and was ap-
pointed by the trustees resident master in the Insti-
tution. Not only did he distinguish himself as a
student in the University, but gathered to his side a
host of friends, whose friendship followed him
through life.

He was known in college, and in after life, as a
man of honor; his word was his bond. As an illus-
tration of that honor—during an examination in
Astronomy his glance chanced to fall upon the pa-
pers of a classmate sitting near, and the Astronomi-
cal figure came into his vision. Although he knew
the subject perfectly and was known as one of the
best students in the department, he left the question
unanswered on his papers, thinking he might violate
the principle of honor which was the standard of
Washington and Lee University. His perfect an-
swers to the other questions, excluding this, gave
him his dictinction. It was such honor that charac-
terized his life.

Leaving college he became assistant principal of
the Cape Fear Academy, at Wilmington, N. C., dur-
ing 1873-74, and principal from 1874-76. It was
during this time that he coached our distinguished
President, Woodrow Wilson, in Greek and thus
linked himself with the great scholar and statesman
ot the world. In 1876 he went to Europe and spent

a term at the University of Heidelberg, and the fol-
lowing year studied in Paris. In the same year,
1877. he was elected professor of Greek in the Uni-
versity of Alabama, which position he held until
1885. when Latin and Spanish were added to his
duties. For twelve years then he was professor of
Greek and Latin, and instructor in Spanish at that
University. In 1897, he again went to Europe and
spent a semester at each of the Universities of Ber-
lin, Lausanne, and Strasbourg, perfecting himself
in modern languages.

Returning to America in 1899, he was for one
year professor of Greek and modern languages at
King College, Bristol, Tennessee. In 1900 he en-
tered the faculty of the Florida State College as pro-
fessor of Greek and modern languages, which chair
he held until 1903, when on the separation of the
Greek from the modern languages, he chose modern
languages as his work. On the reorganization of
the State institution, in 1905, he was offered the
chair of modern languages in the University of
Florida, but preferred to accept that of German and
Romance languages in the Florida State College for
Women.

On May 26, 1909, the University of Alabama,
which he had faithfully served many years as a pro-
fessor. conferred upon him the degree of LL.B.,
which was all the more appreciated because it came
from the University of his native State. Three
weeks later his Alma Mater, Washington and Lee
University, conferred upon him the degree of Litt.D.,
a most unique and highly prized distinction.

Dr. Calhoun was so versatile in his scholarship
that he was capable of filling any chair in the ab-
sence of professors from the institutions, speaking
fluently German, French and Spanish. His interest in
the great fraternal orders was extraordinary. At
Washington and Lee he was a most active member
of the Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity. In later life
he was prominent in the Masons, Knights of Pythias,
and Order of Elks. As a Mason he was a Knight
Templar, 32nd degree Scottish Rite, and Shriner,
passing through many of the chairs in these orders.
When the Phi Beta Kappa Society was organized at
Washington and Lee University, he was selected as
one of the charter members. His literary aspira-
tions, with the beautiful ideals set at Washington
and Lee University were realized in the well rounded
life, the memory of which stands as a pillar in this
Southland.

Professor Calhoun was an elder in the Presbyte-
rian Church, comprehensive in his religious sympa-
thies, with a faith that rested upon the revelation
contained in the Holy Scriptures, reflecting honor

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

upon the heritage that came to him through his
Christian ancestry.

This brief sketch but touches his great life work.
He breached his last in Selma, Alabama, in 1917,
and entered upon that fuller and greater life be-
yond, in which he so firmly believed, and for which
he was so well prepared.

;

James R. WINCHESTER, 772.

* * x

Rev. Crinton C. Brown, DD.. *69

Three young men from South Carolina boarded
the same train at Columbia en route to Washington
College on September 13th, 1869. ‘They were C. C.
Brown, James Aldrich and N. A. Patterson.

From the window of the train we beheld the
spot where General Stonewall Jackson was acciden-
tally shot by his own sentry. Evergreens were so
planted as to spell the words. The historic spot is
beautifully tended by the ladies of Virginia. It rests
upon the slope of a gentle hill so as to be easily read
with the train in rapid motion.

In Richmond, together, we visited the Confederate
States Capitol and stood upon its lofty cupola. At
Lexington, we visited the City Cemetery and beheld
General Robert E. Lee standing with bowed head
over the grave of our beloved Stonewall Jackson.
We were brought into daily contact with General
Lee. ‘To know him was to love him.

In the Graham-Lee Debating Society, Rev. C. C.
Brown soon became one of our most eloquent de-
baters out of 140 members. The habit of forensic
speaking thus acquired did much to impart to him
the gift of oratory, the freedom of speech, and the
ease of diction that made for him the fame he after-
ward came to enjoy as one of the ablest pulpit ora-
tors in South Carolina.

He was a-graduate of the Barnwell High School,
also Furman University. He afterward graduated
from the Southern Baptist ‘Theological Seminary
with the degree of D.D. He joined the Baptist
Church at Greenville, S. C., April 9th, 1871.  Or-
dained Minister July 26th, 1874, he accepted the
pastorate of the First Baptist Church at Sumter, S.
C., January Ist, 1875.

ued to fill that pulpit, never accepting another church.

For forty years he contin-

The life-long love between himself and his congre-
gation was mutual. By his masterly oratory, his
sermons so replete with witticism and anecdote,
blessed with a strong voice, he won the hearts of his
entire congregation. |

General Lee wrote his son, then a West Point ca-
det: “Duty, my son, is the most sublime word in
the English language.” Dr. Brown appears to have
caught the inspiration from the life and character

of General Lee.
dent’s Idol.”
Dr. Brown originated the plan of a permanent

He well may be called “the Sty-

fund of endowment for the relief of aged, retired
and super-annuated Baptist Ministers of South Caro-
lina. This may be termed his greatest life work.
The imposing sum of $55,000 was amassed. ‘This
he invested so well and securely protected that jt
yields a large amount of annual interest. It is now
known as the “Clinton C. Brown Memorial Fund,” —
The great relief it has already accomplished cannot
be estimated.

[fe was also the author of the insurance plan for

the working minister, which has carried immeasur-
able benefit to worthy persons and families, who
otherwise would have been left penniless.
_ In youth Dr. Brown wrote beautiful poetry. La-
ter he wrote a charming book, “Uncle Daniel and
His Friends,” tracing the warm affection between
the old negro of ante-bellum days and the young
master, saving a story to entertain another genera-
tion. His greatest literary effort appears to have
been the work, “Thoughts Toward Sunset.” Each
must be read to be appreciated.

His unselfish disposition was exhibited in seeking
He practiced the Golden
Rule. His life was a sermon. He made _ friends
everywhere he lived, and died without an enemy,
As citizen and churchman, -husband and father, he
was a model.

He was born at Barnwell, S. C., February 2, 1852.
He died at St. Elizabeth Hospital, Richmond, Vir-
ginia, June 14, 1921. It was a bright and morning
star that fell from its high place in the firmament
when Rev. Clinton C. Brown passed to his reward,
and his Alma Mater, Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, can well afford a deep pride in his life work as
Philanthropist and Minister.

N. A. PATTERSON, ’69.

always to assist others.

John $. Strahorn, Jr., ’25, is taking a post-gradu-
ate course at the Harvard Law School.

 

 

io Bi
*. Lain. il .

 

 

 

 

Z
;
k

PO pete on

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

War Letters of Kiffin Yates Rockwell (Continued )

Letters from New York and London
Hotel Imperial,
New York City,
Thursday, Aug. 6, 1914.

Dear Mamma:

Well, Paul and I are sailing on the American liner,
St, Paul, tomorrow morning at 10 o'clock.

We would have gone by home to see you and ex-
plain things if there had been time. But we had to
do some hurrying to catch this boat and it was prac-
tically our only safe chance. It is the only boat leav-
ing here in two weeks time flying the U. S. flag and
we did not want to wait two weeks.

I don’t want you to worry or feel bad. You have
always told me that you wanted me to live my life
without interference and this opportunity is one thai
only comes once in a lifetime. I would not have
come with Paul if I had not felt it was really a great
opportunity. |

We stopped off in Washington today and got our
passports. We also carry letters of mtroduction to
Hon. Walter Page, Ambassador to Great Britain,
and to Stovall, Ambassador to Switzerland. He
used to spend much time at Kenilworth Inn and you
probably know him. We are due to arrive in South-
ampton and from there will go across to Paris.

You know I have always been a great dreamer
and I just couldn't keep myself from this trip, for I
felt the call of opportunity. You have always said
you had great faith in my future and now is the
time for you to prove it, by not worrying about me.
I will write you often, but of course the mails will
be uncertain. You can write me in care of the U.
5. Embassy in Paris.

My actions have often appeared as if I didn’t care
about you and the rest of the family, but it isn’t that
way. It is just that I must and will live my life as
I think best even though I am often mistaken.

[ am completely tired out and have many things
to think about and can’t write you a good letter to-
night. My only anxiety is that you will worry too
much and I ask you please not to do that.

Very much love,

Kiffin.

London,
August 24, 1914.
Dear Mamma:

We are still in London but expect to leave tomor-
row morning. We have been constantly on the go
and have seen a great deal of the city. At first I
thought it would be hard to find my way around the
city but I don’t believe I would ever get lost here
now. We spent Saturday afternoon in the British

Museum, which is the most wonderful thing we have
seen.

Everything is very quiet here now. Most of the
Americans have gotten away or, at least, they are
not rushing around as excitedly as when we got here.
The people are very calm and business continues as
usual. This is a very popular war and everyone ex-
pects it to last a long while, but is willing to fight it
out. The Irish have stopped their fuss and are com-
ing to the defense of the flag. The militant suffra-
gettes have stopped their “raising Cain” and the ones
in prison have been released.

Paul and I have decided to go to Paris in the
morning. We were around to the French Consulate
this morning and had our papers fixed up. We will
send you our address later. We are leaving our
trunk here at 37 Torrington Square, as it would be
so much trouble to take it with us. Our mail will be
forwarded ‘from here in case we find we are going
to stay long.

Will write you again in a few days.

Love to all,
Kiffin.
Letters from the Foreign Legion
2eme Regiment Etranger,
lere Section, Depot de Rouen, France,
Aug. 31, 1914.
Dear Mamma:

Paul and | are here drilling with the American
corps and about sixteen hundred other foreigners
from every land. I think Paul wrote you about our
joining. As it is very hard to get letters through and
we are not allowed to write much about what we are
doing, will only tell you that both of us are well and
feeling fine. It is, of course, a little rough but it
will make men of us both.

We left Paris .Friday morning and arrived here
in the afternoon. Since then we have been living the
army life, except that we have not yet our uniforms.
The American branch is quite a mixture but there
are several fine fellows. Yale, Harvard, Michigan,
Columbia, Cornell and several other schools are rep-
resented by graduates. There are two or three col-
lege professors and two lawyers. We drill about six
hours a day and have three hours that we do what we

‘please. The rest of the time is spent loafing around

barracks and doing odd chores. The barracks is an
old school building. We get to bed every night be-
tween eight and nine, lights out at nine, and get up
at five in the morning. The food is good, whole-
some and well cooked. We have a sleeping bag fur-
nished and an army blanket, and straw to sleep on.

Everybody is congenial and good-humored, all
trying to make the company a good one. We had

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

from eleven in the morning till eight at night off
yesterday and spent most of the time looking over
the town, which is, in an historical way, the most in-
teresting city in France. This is in Normandy and
the people from this section were the ones who in-
vaded England successfully. The most interesting
thing to us yesterday was seeing the dungeon where
Jeanne d’Are was imprisoned before being burned at
the stake. The tower was built in 1205. Then there
is here a famous cathedral and numerous other old
buildings.

This will be the last letter I shall write you for
some time, as they don’t like for us to write letters,
and they read them all and don’t send them if one
talks too much. Everyone uses postcards and I will
“follow suit” after this. We do not expect to be
here much longer but guess mail will be forwarded
from this address.

We both hope that you will not worry, as this a
great thing for us to do.

Much love,
Kiffin.

2eme FEtranger, Toulouse,
Sept. 7, 1914.
Dear Mamma:

Came here last week, fifty-five hours on a freight
car, thirty-two men in each car. We are fixed more
comfortably than at Rouen, are working hard and
have very little spare time. It agrees with us. Paul
and I are gaining strength and have a healthy look
in our faces.

Love,

Kiffin.

Toulouse,
Sept. 17, 1914.
Dear Mamma:

Have been too busy and tired to write even a card.
We get up at four A. M. and work as much as four-
teen hours a day. We are now fully equipped and
expect to leave here soon. Hope to write you a let-
ter in a few days. Both of us are feeling well.

Kiffin.

Toulouse, France,
Sept. 25, 1914.
Dear Mamma:

Paul and I have received only one letter from you
since being here. It was a note written September 4,
and addressed to London, and begging us to come
home. The thought of you has been the very thing
that has worried me since my enlisting. I realize
how you feel, and did before I enlisted, but I don’t
think you should worry or feel bad. I am of such a
temperament that if I didn’t do things that seem
strange to you, I could never be satisfied myself, or
make a success of my life. You would not wish my

     
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
   
  
  
   

life to be a failure in my own mind, even if by id
ing so I*should live many years and be always with
you. If I should be killed in this war I will at lez aa
die as a man should and would not consider mysel :
a complete failure. I know you must think me gej_
fish and inconsiderate of your feelings, but I am not. ,
You expect great things of me and I want to do
great things, and can see a great future before py
If I am killed in the attempt to attain that future, T
have at least done my best; that is all any of us can
do.

Since being here I have taken more interest in life 3
than ever before. It has brought out new feelings
and thoughts in me. I think if anything will
a man of me, it is this giving as a_ volunteer one’s”
best for an ideal. 4

‘Tomorrow we leave here and will have no address
except France. There will probably be times when |
I shall be unable to write for weeks. But please —
don’t worry. If anything should happen to either of |
us you would hear before a letter could reach you, —
The government has your address and_ several of —
our friends have it. We are only a few Americans —
and if anything should befall any of us the news
would be sent immediately to the States.

We have been working very hard and my feet 4
have bothered me a little from a forced march we-
took the other morning. It is going to be a life off
hardships but I am willing to go through them, and —
actually enjoy them. The only worry is you. But
I hope you will be proud of me instead of worrying <
over me. z

Lots of love for you and Agnes,

Kiffin.

Camp de Mailly,
Aube, France,

Nov. 14, 1914.

Dear Mamma:

I will write you a short letter, on the chance of its a

going through, to let you know that Paul and I are —

both well and safe. We are still at the front, but

have been most of the time in the reserve trenches —

and therefore in no danger. Of course, the hard- —

ships are severe but we are standing them well and

the outlook is bright. We hope soon to get to some
town and rest up for a while.

The French Army pays only one cent a day and —
we are both “broke.” We left the money we brought _
over locked up in our trunk, and we have no way of
getting at it. When we do get into a town, we will
need to buy a few things, so if you will send us Some
money regularly it will “come in handy.” Send by
International Money Order, and never send more
than ten dollars in one letter.

We have received many letters from you, all of

 

—

hi ie ae
——. >

 

Oi gore @

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

which we enjoyed. We get our mail even when in
the trenches.
Love to all, and don’t worry. We will come out

im, K.
Kiffin.

Dec. 1, 1914.
Dear Mamma:

Since my letter of Nov. 14, I have spent twelve
days in the trenches and rest of time at work in the
rear. Go back to the trenches to-night. We are so
safely entrenched that there is practically no danger
at all. Our losses have been mostly through sickness,
as conditions are bad in that respect.

We are getting along fine. Hope you got my let-
ter, asking for money-orders of not more than ten
dollars at a time.

Much love,
Kiffin.

Dec. 10, 1914.
Dear Mamma:

Have received letters from you as late as Nov.
20th. Am living in anticipation of the package,
though I know my getting it is very uncertain. Do
not go to much expense or trouble with packages,
but if you find they come through and you send any
more, you might put in something like a little jam,
peanut butter, etc.—also a few American cigarettes.
It is more the idea than the quantity that would
make them so good. We are beginning to get a few
packages from Americans in Paris. This morning
a package came out of which I got a pair of socks,
some tobacco and some chocolate. The American
bunch has dwindled, only fifteen of us left. The
others are either reformed or sick in hospitals or
have gotten easier jobs—only one wounded.

I have spent twenty-one out of the last twenty-
four days in the trenches. At first I suffered some
from cold, but the trenches are now fixed up for
Winter, and we can now have fire at night when the
smoke won’t show. I am in fine physical condition.

This takes my “Merry Xmas” and “Happy New
Year” to you all.

With all my love,
Kiffin.
(To be continued)

W. P. Thurston, *11, is president of the W. P.
Thurston Company, Inc., Engineers and Contract-
ors, with their home office in Richmond, Va. The
scope of their business is general contracting and
engineering incident thereto. They have at present
about thirty contracts for the Florida East Coast
Railway Company and several banking and indus-
trial corps.

PERSONALS

Thomas Chipman McRae, ’72, engaged in the
practice of law in Prescot, Arkansas, is also associ-
ated with one of the banks in that city.

J. M. Robinson, ’76, is engaged in farming at
Bayou La Chute, Louisiana.

J. R. Land, ’82, is Associate Justice of the Su-
preme Court, New Orleans, La.

J. B. Hutchinson, ’87, 1s with a Jewelry and
Music store. in Shreveport, La.

T’. S. Hutchinson, ’87, is located at Caspiana, Lou-
isiana, and engaged in farming.

H. J. Darnall, ’89, is Professor of Germanic Lan-
guages, at the University of Tennessee, Knoxville,
having occupied that position since 1898.

Rey. Ashby Jones, '91, from Atlanta, Georgia,
has removed to St. Louis to accept a pastorate there.

Robert L. Hyatt, 93, is vice-president of the Un-
nion Bank and ‘Trust Company, of Monticello, Ar-
kansas.

F. J. Looney, 94, is an attorney with offices in
Shreveport, La.

R. R. Turner, 94, Superintendent of City Schools,
Dallas, Oregon, was recently a candidate for Super-
intendent of Public Instruction. Having been in
school work for twenty-three years—eight years in
Virginia, ‘Tennessee and Ohio; ten years as City Su-
perintendent, Grants Pass, Oregon; and five years
as City Superintendent, in Dallas, Oregon, his _rec-
ord particularly qualifies him for this office. He is
a member of the State Text-Book Commission and
Board of School Examiners. An active Democrat,
he was twice a delegate to the National Convention,
and a Democratic elector in last general election.

John Smith, ’97, is Manager for the Jamison chain
of stores, in Martinsville, Va.

E. W. Worrell, ‘00, is an attorney in Pineville,
West Va. |

J. M. Moore, ’08, Assistant Principal of the Green-
briar Military School, Lewisburg, West Va., was a
visitor in Lexington May 3rd and 4th. He says that
Eddie Cameron and “Lefty” Hickman are teaching
in the Greenbriar Military School also.

R. B. Stephenson, ‘08, president of the local Ki-
wanis Club of Covington, Va., is Prosecuting Attor-
ney of Alleghany County.

Carl Hinton, ‘09, is Engineer for White-Wood
and Lipscomb, contractors, in Hinton, West Va.

Dr. W. B. Dudley, °10, is a practicing physician
in Martinsville, Va.

C. E. Heaton, °10, of the Department of Trade
and Commerce, in Springfield, Illinois, represented
Washington and Lee at the inauguration of Freder-
ick Rutherford Hamilton as President of the Brad-
ley Polytechnic Institute, Peoria, Illinois, on March
12th.

 

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

e |
we A / Announcing! |

THE
ALUMNI DIRECTORY

and

Service Record
1926

:
| Now
| OFF THE PRESS! a

See Next Page

 

 

 

OOo 2 eee

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

37

 

 

THE DIRECTORY

Eddie Parks Davis started it. Then “Doc’’ Holbrook took it

up. The present Alumni Secretary spent two years in completing
their work. Now it is finished! !

The volume contains 608 pages and 22 full page illustrations,
handsomely bound in dark blue cloth, stamped in gold. Interesting
sketches by President Henry Louis Smith, Dr. George H. Denny,
Sergeant Forest Fletcher, Captain J. C. Harper and the late Profes-
sor Alexander Nelson, preface the work.

Short biographical records of former Washington and Lee stu-
dents from 1749 to 1926 are listed in class order. They include
5,500 living alumni. Thus the addresses and records of your former
classmates can be easily found. They are also indexed alphabet-
ically. .

In addition, the personnel of all major campus activities since
1869 are recorded; members of teams and crews, all scholarship
winners, Y. M. C. A. presidents, publication managers and editors,
student body, class, and Alumni Association officers. Honorary
society members, orators and medalists.

This is the first directory of its kind published at Washington
and Lee. It is an independent venture of the Alumni, Incorporated.
The book is offered at the actual cost price of compilation and print-
ing—$4.50 prepaid.

Checks or money orders for $4.50 should be made payable to
the Alumni, Incorporated, and sent to Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

Your Copy is Ready for Mailing

 

 

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Early History of Washington College (Continued )

CHAPTER III.

Difficulties of the Academy. It Is Suspended; Then
Removed and Chartered

Liberty Hall Academy was founded in troublous times.
The Revolutionary war had begun to press heavily on
all parts of the country. Taxes necessarily increased.
The paper bills issued by Congress and the State gov-
ernment, operated as a tax by their depreciation; militia
drafts became more frequent in Virginia as the storm of
war approached her borders, and increased in frequency
when the territory became her principal seat of war.

The contest being for the liberties of the country, and
requiring all its energies and resources, the minds of the
people were kept in a state of continual excitement and
were consequently withdrawn from the gentle arts of
peace. Even the ministers of the Gospel partook of the
military spirit, especially the Presbyterian, who suffered
their patriotism to abstract their attention from the cure
of souls, and to convert the sacred pulpit too often into
a “drum ecclesiastic,” that they might rouse the military
spirit of their congregations in defense of their bleeding
country. Under these circumstances the new academy
could not flourish. The buildings were not finished un-
til late in the year 1777, although the school had been
removed to them at the beginning of the year. The price
of provisions was so rapidly enhanced, by the deprecia-
tion of the currency, that Mr, Stewart Scott soon found
it a ruinous business to board students for six pounds
ten a year. He therefore gave notice that he would re-
sign his stewardship in the fall. No person could be ob-
tained to fill the vacancy, because the sinking value of
the currency made it unsafe to contract at any fixed
price. In this emergency the neighboring families ac-
tually fed the students for a while out of their own
stores, each carrying them provisions in turn and acting
as stewards without pay. This continued, perhaps, till
the end of the year. Then, as no steward was forthcom-
ing, these generous families agreed to board the stu-
dents in their houses for 15 pounds of depreciated and
depreciating paper,—a sum which no man would accept
as steward. But because from six pounds ten to fifteen
pounds seemed to some persons too high a leap in the
price, it was agreed between the trustees and the heads
of these families,

“that any person who should furnish provisions at
the old prices, their board should be at the rate of
eight pounds ten shillings per annum. But no person
should be at liberty to furnish provisions in less quan-
tity than ‘would be at least half the board last men-
tioned.”

Should any of our readers be disposed to smile at this
proviso, we tell them that these small shifts, to accom-
modate all parties and obviate prejudices and dissatisfac-
tion, were necessary to keep this young literary institu-
tion alive under the pressure of the times; and instead
of being ridiculed as petty or low, should be rather ad-
mired as wise and benevolent. Without this careful and
tender nursing, Liberty Hall Academy could not have
survived the year of its birth.

In the year 1778, the few trustees who attended to the
business of the Academy made an effort to raise addi-
tional funds to pay some debts outstanding, and to en-
large the scanty accommodations of the students. They
issued subscription papers and requested the Presbytery

   
 
  
   
   
   
  
   
 
 
  
  
    
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
    
     
  
    
 
  

of Hanover, who had now begun to neglect the Acag ai
to send one of their number to solicit aid from
northern churches. No great success appears to h;
attended their measures. Every circumstance of 4
times was unfavorable. But by these means two or all
lodging rooms were attached to the Academy house j
a balance of funds was left unexpended. =
A petition to the legislature for an act of incorporatio
was also prepared this year, but if prescaay it was uw
successful. “
In the year 1779 the times grew worse. Every
favorable circumstance of the preceding year was agera.
vated. The invasion of the Southern States by the F st
ish caused frequent drafts of the militia. The elder st
dents being enrolled were thus all harassed and in part
carried off to the army. The currency reached the loy
est stage of depreciation. Consequently, debts contracte
in former years and stated salaries and fees became
most worthless when paid in the current trash. i
worthy rector found his fees as teacher and his salary as
pastor dwindling to nothing better than a handful of
rags, while his increasing family called for an increasiny
income. He had purchased a farm seven miles from the
Academy, by the newly-founded village of Lexington.
He had now to depend for support on the cultivation of
this farm, to which, with the consent of the trustees,
removed his family, leaving the Academy in the ina
diate care of William Willson, his assistant. Mr. Wil
son was an excellent classical scholar. He could repeat.
hundreds of lines from Homer without book. He after-
wards became pastor of Augusta Church, where he sg ent
the remainder of his long life. *
The rector was still to visit the academy and spend ¢
couple of days weekly in the duties of his office. Br t
an arrangement so inconvenient could not be long con-
tinued. He gradually withdrew his attendance, and ne
students, missing his able instruction and harassed by
military duties, began to leave the academy. The lis-_
solution of the school was hastened by Mr. Willson’s—
feeble state of health, so that in the course of the year
1780, the operations of the academy were wholly sus-
pended, and were never resumed at Timber Ridge. Thu: :
in the fourth year of its new existence, this young semi-
nary of learning fainted under the hard pressure of the
times; and the buildings provided with such difficul y
for its accommodation were scarcely completed before
they were abandoned to silence and desolation. But-
some of the students being anxious to complete their
studies, the library and apparatus were removed to Mr.
Graham’s residence, where he continued to give private e
instruction. 2
Among the pupils who thus followed their teacher, —
were Moses Hoge and Archibald Alexander, —
names are now so venerable. a
This private school prevented the extinction of the —
academy. It was the germ of vitality, which cnablelli
the institution to revive, when the deadly winter had ©
passed away; and to begin new and permanent growth
in the long summer of our country’s prosperity. While
the acadeniy lay in this state of suspended animation, —
the people of Virginia were more than ever agitated by —
the alarms of war. Cornwallis, after a victorious creel
in the South, invaded our territory, and for a while drove —
everything before him. The legislature fled from Rich- —
mond to Charlottesville, where they hoped to sit im q
safety. But Tarleton with his legion of light. horesa

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

made a dash at them from below, and had nearly cap-
tured them by surprise. They hastily adjourned to meet
in Staunton a few days afterwards. Whilst some of the
members dispersed themselves in various directions, a
considerable number came directly to the appointed place
of meeting. By the way, they spread the alarm of this
invasion of the mountains. Heretofore the men of the
Valley had gone far away to fight the battles of their
country. Now they had the enemy at their doors. It
was supposed that Tarleton, having missed his prey at
Charlottesville, would follow it up to Staunton; that il
he could not capture, he might at least chase the legisla-
tors of Virginia, “like partridges in the mountains.”

Mr. Graham happened to be riding on his way to Au-
gusta Church,. eight miles below Staunton, when he met
two members of the legislature in their flight from Char-
lottesville. He advised them to join him in carrying the
alarm to Rockbridge. They took three different routes
to Lexington, and on their way roused the whole inter-
mediate country. The militia began to assemble imme-
diately. Mr. Graham’s house was one point of rendez-
vous for those above Lexington. He volunteered to go
with them, shouldered his firelock, and marched with
them to Rockfish Gap, through which the enemy must
enter the valley. Here they found the mountain already
covered with riflemen watching for Tarleton, whilst other
parties were still coming in from the more distant parts
of the valley. But no Tarleton appeared. This dashing
cavalier wisely returned to headquarters in Richmond.
On learning this fact the militia separated; some re-
turned directly home; others continued their march to
the lower country. Of these, a few remained with the
army until the formidable Cornwallis surrendered at
Yorktown.

The deliverance of Virginia by the capture of her in-
vaders, gave sure indication that gentle peace would ere
long return to bless the land, and that no alarm of war
could again disturb the valley. Now, therefore, the trus-
tees began to think of reviving the academy.

Early in the year 1782, it appears that they met and
instituted some proceedings for this end. The records
of the year are lost, but from those of the next year it is
evident they had previously done two important things;
they had by petition obtained an act of incorporation for
the academy, and they had removed its seat to the bor-
der of Mr. Graham’s farm, near Lexington.

The act of incorporation was passed in October, 1782.
It was in everything but the name a college charter; for
besides the usual privileges of incorporated academies,
it authorized the institution to confer literary degrees
and to appoint professors, as well as masters and tutors.
It also gave unlimited power to acquire lands and other
Property for the use of the Academy.

The following are the names of the original trustees,
as recited in the charter:

Rev. William Graham, Rector
Arthur Campbell William Christian
Gen. Andrew Moore William Alexander
loseph Walker Alexander Campbell
John Willson John Trimble
John Hays Gen. John Bowyer
Maj. Samuel McDowell George Moffett,
William McKee James McCorkle
Samuel Lyle Archibald Stuart
Rev. Caleb Wallace Rev. John Montgomery

Rev. William Willson

he removal of the Academy was induced, no doubt,

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

meCOY Ss

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

HUGER--DAVIDSON SALE COMPANY

WHOLESALE GROCERS

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

BRANCH HOUSES:

Buena Vista Staunton

 

 

 

Rockbridge Wholesale
Company

Incorporated

WHOLESALE GROCERS

LEXINGTON, - - - - - VIRGINIA

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

 

40 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

by the fact, that on no other condition could Mr, Gra-
ham take any part in its instruction or oversight. He
could not quit his farm, which was a sure’ resource for
the support of his family, to resume at Timber Ridge a
school that promised only small and precarious emolu-
ments.

The site now chosen for the academy was a grove of
oaks, where three farms met. The proprietors, Messrs.
Graham, Walker and Alexander, each gave a portion of
the ground. There was a_ fountain of pure limestone
water in a ravine, and an eminence covered with trees,
from the shades of which a_ spectator might view the
pleasant scenery of fields and woodlands around, and at
a distance the high mountains on either side of the val-
ley.

PERSONALS

J. H. Tucker, Jr., °10, is practicing law in Shreve-
port, La.

Eugene B. Cooper, ‘11, is in the wholesale grocery
business in Winchester, Virginia.

F. S. Johnson, *11, is Acid Superintendent of the
FE. I. duPont de Nemours and Company, in duPont,
Washington.

Rev. John A. Bowman, 12, is pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church, of Cleveland, Tenn.

Dr. G. B. Dudley, 12, is Ear, Eye and Throat
specialist practicing in Martinsville, Va.

Thomas McP. Glasgow, °12, °16, of Charlotte, N.
C., spent Easter Sunday with his father, Mr. Frank
T. Glasgow in Lexington. |

Edward Lyons, °13, is in Detroit, Michigan, en-
gaged in chemical research work with Parke, Davis
and Company.

Adrian Williamson, °13, is a member of the law
firm of Williamson and Williamson, in Monticello,
Arkansas.

Jose Caminero, °14, who is secretary of the Uni-
versity Club in Havana, Cuba, extends a most cor-
dial invitation to all W. and L. alumni coming to
Cuba, to visit the Club.

Stephen F. Chadwick, °14, is attorney in Seattle,
Washington. In the last municipal election from a
field of forty-seven candidates fifteen freeholders
were elected to draft a new charter for the city of
Seattle and its 500,000 people. Mr. Chadwick ran
second in the entire field. He was outdistanced a
few votes by one of the city’s leading business men
who for years has been on the school board, but ran
ahead of two former presidents of the Chamber of
Commerce, a former Corporation counsel, former
councilmen and other civic leaders of much longer
residence in the city. Upon its organization, Mr.
Chadwick was named secretary of the commission.

Kennen C. Whittle. ’14, is practicing law with the
firm of Whittle and Whittle, Martinsville, Va.

J. R. Walker, °14, is located in Martinsville, Va.,

     
  
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
    
    
   
 
   
     
  
  
   
  
  
    
   
  
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

being employed by the Walker-Fair Hardware Com_
pany. ) %
L. S. Anderson, 15, is a member of the firm of J
L.. Sherrill and Company, tobacco rehandlers, —
Mayfield, Ky. He is also proprietor of the La
Anderson Motor Company of that city. 4

W. A. Keleher, 15, is practicing law in Albuquey
que, New Mexico. He writes: “I have not recom
plished anything great but have done my best -
maintain Washington and Lee leadership in my ¢o m
munity. My thoughts frequently go back to Le.
ington and some day I hope to walk once more
across the campus.” ‘<

John R. Brand, *17, is practicing law at El Do
rado, Arkansas, with the firm of Moorhead and
srand. %

Robert Glenn Craig, *17, is assistant resident ur
geon and gynecologist at Johns Hopkins Hospital |
in Baltimore, 2

T. HeSeovell ‘Fri-71
Lakeland, Florida.

Murray Shoun, °18, is associated with the
ers Trust Company, of Atlanta, Georgia.

V. J. Trotter, ’18, R. F. Trotter, ’21, and Hv
Trotter, ‘20, are members of the firm of V. J. Trot-
ter and Sons, General Merchants, in Monticello, Ar-
kansas. 2
R. M. Cabel, ’20, is Sales Manager of the Cabe'
Coal Company, Inc., Covington, Virginia. He is also
serving as First Lieutenant, Battery D, 246th
Artillery, Virginia National Guard.

J. Waller Callison, ’20, who has _ been located i
West Palm Beach, Florida, for some months, nas
recently moved to Roanoke where he is in business

is a real estate broker a .

  
 

e
r)
DJA Llix:

|
[a «
‘yA |

John W. Kern, ’20, is practicing law in Indianap-
olis, Ind. He is also acting as United States .
missioner, Secretary of the Indianapolis Bar Asso-
ciation, and an Instructor in the Indiana Law School ,

  

OL
*

Bill Morrison, ’20, is holding a responsible position n
with the Whitfield Grocery Company, of Milledge-
ville, Georgia. i

Holmes Ralston, ’20, is continuing his studies
the Union Theological Seminary in Richmond. He
will be assistant pastor at one of the Presbyterian
Churches in Staunton this summer. z

C. L. Booth, ’21, is in the real estate business in
Danville, Va. 4

Jim Bryan, ’21, is with the Fowlkes Realty Co
pany, in Birmingham, Alabama.

Wathen R. Knebelkamp, Jr.. ’21, is with the Lout
ville Baseball Company, of Louisville, Kentucky.

Frank Love, ’21, is assistant Prosecuting Attorney
of Fayette County, West Va. 3

Alex Malloy, ’21, is in Orlando, Florida, with
Yowell-Drew Department Store.

=
+

 

i
i

THE ALUMN

PERSONALS

Jack Marshall, ’21, is back in Chattanooga, Tenn.,
after a sojourn to Tampa, Florida, to sell real estate.

George Parry, °21, is working with the Indiana
Trust Company in Indianapolis. |

“Clif Westbrooke,” ’21, writes one of our sub-
scribers, “—-way out in Arkansas—is married.”

Hunter Barrow, ’22, practices law at Dinwiddie,
Va.

|. D. Bassett, Jr., ’22, is Vice-President of the J.
D. Bassett Manufacturing Company of Bassett, Va.

Byron C. Browder, 22, is salesman for the Stand-
ard Oil Company of Louisiana, at Chattanooga,

_ Tenn.

Lawrence Haynes, ’22, is teaching at the Law-
renceville School, New Jersey.

W. H. Trotter, Jr., ex ’22, is with the company of
Trotter and Boyd, General Agents, Provident Life
and Accident Insurance Co., of Chattanooga, Tenn.

Jean Ellis, ’23, expects to take Florida Bar exam
in June and thereafter practice law in Fort Myers.

Fred Faircloth, ’23, is located in Birmingham, Ala.,
with Cherokee Flour Mills. He boasts of a son,
born in March.

A. J. Lester, Jr., ’23, is Claim Adjuster of the
American Dining Furniture Company, of Martins-
ville, Va.

A. Forrest McGill, ’23, is with the Rex-McGill In-
vestment Company, of Orlando, Florida.

“Daddy” Potts, ’23, is building roads in Bartow,
Florida.

F. L. Sattes, ’23, is superintendent of ammonia
plant of the Belle Alkali Company at Belle, West
Virginia. His residence is located in St. Albans.

Douglas Wingo, ’23, is practising law in Birming-
ham, Ala.

Charles Bronson, ex ‘24, is selling real estate in
Orlando, Florida.

A. B. Carruthers, Jr., ’24, is selling real estate
with the Cross Realty Company, Ft. Myers, Florida.

John F. Forsyth, ex ’24, now attending the Tulane
College of Commerce and Business Administration,
will return to W. and L, in the fall for his degree.

Robert W. Lochridge, ex ’24, is associated with
the firm of Lochridge and Ridgway Hardware Com-
pany, in Mayfield, Ky.

Howard D. Leake, ’24, is Professor in the Lan-
guage and the Commercial Department of Birming-
ham Southern College, Birmingham, Ala.

B. L. Malone, Jr., ’24, who is practicing law in
Punta Gorda, Florida, and is incidentally the proud
father of a three months old son, writes us. that
Florida is “still growing and growing and the fish
are still biting.”

Sinclair Philips, ’24, engaged in law practice in

| MAGAZINE 41

Tampa, has recently been elected Secretary-Treas-
urer of the Florida Advertising Organization, which
will run ten trains over the U. S. A. this summer ad-
vertising Florida.

Edwin W. Richardson, ’24, is Secretary-Treas-
urer of the Acme Motor Company, Ford dealers in
Martinsville, Va. |

James Richter, ex ’24, is in charge of the shoe de-
partment of his father’s store in Laredo, Texas.
Incidentally, he was married in October, 1924.

S. Cook Shaw, ex ’24, is a member of the firm of
I.. S. Shaw and Company, Insurance and Real Es-
tate, of Mayfield, Kentucky.

R. W. Terry, ’24, is with the Drennen Auto Com-
pany of Birmingham, Alabama. He was married
last spring.

J. P. Turner, ’24, is employed by Irwin Lumber
Company in Mobile, Alabama.

R. A. Wilson, ’24, is engaged in banking in Staun-
ton, Va.

Clyde N. Allen, ’25, is in the automobile business
in Richmond, Virginia.

Herbert Baker, ’25, is in the real estate business
in Louisville, Kentucky.

S. Lake Bass, ’25, is employed as general account-
ant by the Standard Oil Company of Louisiana, in
Baton Rouge.

Darby H. Brown, Jr., ’25, is real estate salesman
with Jemison and Company, of Birmingham, Ala.

John Coe, ’25, is with Molton-Allen-Williams Real
Estate Company, in Birmingham, Ala.

Frank P. Fischer, ’25, is employed by the Power
Department of the New Orleans Public Service, Inc.,
in the capacity of Assistant Electrical Engineer.

Bob Fulwiler, ’25, John Lewis, ’25, and Fred
Mercer, ’25, are taking law at Harvard.

W. P. Harper, ’25, is instructor in science in the
high school, at Whitmell, Virginia.

P. C. Manning, ’25, is Instructor of English at
Sewanee Military Academy, Sewanee, Tenn.

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

Henry K. Hill, Jr., °25, is connected with the
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company, in
Louisville, Kentucky.

R. D. Holland, ’25, is in the law office of L. P.
Matthews, in Norfolk, Virginia. Incidentally, he
was married last November to Miss Gladys Mae
Matthews.

James D, Holmes, Jr., ex ’25, is working with his
father at Jacksonville, Florida, with Baker and
Holmes Company, ve Material dealers.

Ransom B. Houchins, ’25, having recently passed
the West Virginia Bar exam, is now practicing law
in Pineville, the county seat of W yoming County.

Louis S. Joel, ’25, was appointed an assistant
United States attorney for the southern district of
Florida recently by John Sargent, attorney general,
on the recommendation of the Florida district attor-
ney. Joel, who graduated here last year and married
the same month, is 24 years old, and is said to be the
youngest man ever to hold such a position in Flor-
ida. He received his A.B. degree from Washington
and Lee in 1923, and his LL.B. here last year, where
he was prominent in journalistic activity.

Joel was a member of Zeta Beta Tau fraternity,
Pi Delta Epsilon, Sigma Upsilon, and was Athletic
director of the press club last year.

Frank D. Lowe, ’25, is selling real estate and in-
surance in Fort Myers, Florida, with James D, New-
ton Realty Company, Ine.

Registrar Earl S. Mattingly, ’25, had a most in-
teresting trip recently when he attended the meet-
ing of the National Intercollegiate Association of
Registrars in Minneapolis, Minn.

G. W. McRae, '25, is employed by the State Ab-
stract and Mortgage Company, in Mobile, Alabama.

George Mercke, ’25, is connected with the Jetter-
son Woodworking Company, of Louisville. Ken-
tucky.

P. W. Mullins, ’25, is associated with the White
Studios of New York City as Manager of the col-
lege department.

Roy C. Slack, ’25, has charge of the Meter Stand-
ardizing Laboratory of the Appalachian Power and
Light Company, in Charleston, West Va.

W. K. Payne, Jr., ’25,
with the firm of J. L.
Branch, Virginia.

W. V. Perry, A. R. Hawkins and F. T. Mitchell,
all of the class of 1925, are selling real estate in
Lakeland, Florida. John T. McVay was also with
them until recently when he returned to Huntington,
West Va.

Luther Reynolds, '25, is engineering for Small-

is in the tobacco business

& W. K. Payne, at Drakes

  
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
    
   
 
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
   

man-Brice Construction Company on a half millic
dollar hotel job, in Panama City, Florida. a

Ed Rietze, 25, is manager of Frozen Product
Company, of Louisville, Kentucky. ;

Thomas R. Nelson, '25, is practicing law in Stat
ton, Virginia.

Allan P. Sloan, ’25, is reporter and general repr
sentative of the Spartanburg Herald in Wooc

Sieg

Harold D. St. John, ’25, is with the firm of H.
St. John and Company, freight brokers and for
warding agents, of New York City. 2

J. M. Darden, Jr., ’26, is Secretary-Treasurer
Sands and Company, with offices in Atlanta, =
gia. w
Telfair Hendon, ’27, who has just recupe ate
from a rather severe illness, is correspondent ‘0
newspapers as local representative in Demopc is
Alabama.

R. P. Carter, ’27, recently returned from a inte
in Florida, is contemplating Summer School th
summer and will possibly return to W. and L. i
the fall.

ALUMNUS IN COAL COMBINE

A recent issue of an important coal trade jo na
contained a two column feature write-up on the : x
pansion of the Lake and Export Coal Corporation ¢
New York. To many this would mean but little unt
it were known that Harry E. Moran, "14, of baseball
fame, is president of that large New York coal distr
bution company. ;

Mr. Moran was instrumental in the recent forma-
tion of the Fuel Distributors, Inc., an organization 0:
coal producers and consumers controlling, among othe
tonnage, the output of the mines of the Coal Rive
Collieries of Huntington, West Virginia. Mr. Mo-
ran’s company, the Lake and Export Coal Corpora
tion, was immediately appointed ‘Tidewater, Eastert
Canada and Export Agents for the newly formed cor-
poration.

The Lake and Export Coal Corporation is recog
nized as one of the largest shippers of high volati
coal from Southern West Virginia. Harry Mo an
the president, has long been identified with the cc u
industry, also being at the present time president of the
leccony Smokeless Coal Company, of Besoco, West:
Virginia. 2

The Law Library has recently received from D 0-
zier A. DeVane, ’08, a splendid gift of two boxes 0
valuable law books, which will prove very useful to
that department.

