 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

and SUMMER BULLETIN

OF

Washington and Lee University

Volume III

 

  

>

  

5

  

errr
wee
SR EY

#9

   
  
 
 

 

  
   

. Ai .
We

   
  
 
 
  

  
  
 

 

 

     
    
  
 
  
  
   

 
 
 
  
      
  
     
 
 
  

 
 

ERS
eee
S

    
 
 

 

  
  
 
  
  
 
   
  

     
 
  
   
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
   

AUGUST, 1927

   

   

Aung

tae

Hee @ £5, ris v :
Pie ste. hen
| oa ; @ pol é

 
 
 
 
    
  
 
  
 
 
   
  
 

Ss
ww
Aa

  
 
  

Sic
Ye°5

Pees:

iA
AS Lz y ef)

PT Dy Wa hse KP

BEL AM aay

       
 
   

oR
.

  

F

ie wt

it “on 4
es

|

   
 
  

   

Es

 

      

 
 

    

 
    
    
    
    

   

     
 

 
   
 
   

 

     
     
 

    

  
  

    
   

 

 
   

  
     
     
 
 

 
 
 
   
  
   
      

     
        
   

   
  

    
  
 
 
   
  
 
  
   
   
  

    
 
  
  

  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
   
     

      
    
    
    
 
 
   
     

 

 

   
   

  
  

  
 
 
  
  
 
  

 
 
 
 
 
  
   

     
 
 
  

 
  
  
 

 

  
    
   

104 id, F i i 3 aH re) hes
om fe 44 g StS det hf Hi oe Si peaean ae gi pla
COCA iss re ore ATTAIN eee B “e,
UN i os Ug Wee i NN en
> IEA EE y Elid 9 ty ea eee TE
SS mG pe et Rigs eee ZL na cat ay ut
LI CE Pe i Mee ee NG eee ety) If} a eae
eat Kian SD EG PANE : peed bay eae
eet as a a ee mS AY Xs WA i—4 .
ore ee apa BN Si
TO ih eter XE
=< tp tee va webs
7 ree Mer ET =
ame Ppa} tagttd pol =.
rly 2 Se SS SSS A Se 7
— Pi ae a to pl
a4 tr aS ots 9 Pt
= (et + i 4
cay tt — = 3 =)
4 ie 4 3 es =
as Se oH ts ie =
te pane Ss” eo : = Et
=| eae 2S = =o
i i Sime Es; == ; St = =
es et — ; —* ay
- i _———' —t— % f— 34) ce
——-s Sa == | 4 EH si
wh tte a Tt t os —w
t, Ss — rt ee A HH Ba
or ==: oi — a
— som rf — 7
ee Epos 1 Sees } — —
is a ;
a See Z eS
= ao zs

   
 

 
 
  
  
 
 

   

$2.50 Per Year

 

ws c—

 
  

ETO

 

 

S——,
—— << ee
= = ae SS c

  

  

         

 

   

   
  
 
 

ae.
one Sexi ae

A BE gts ——

E> I a ak ee ==
egg Kaige geop nae
EL ii gig lag GAL: Hy Cee oe
‘ ers SS
< ey ee
ad a wo

HA ‘ “Pree
Ze 2s. esas
LEIS

 

aed

 

Number 42

   
    
 
  
 
 
   
   
    
   

Pr

pJ

@
EIR

  
      
   
   
     
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
 
 

   
   
   
  
  
 
    
 

 

   
      
 
 
 

50c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

it

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fe al ea en eae aa

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business

at a distance, or of a special professional character.

Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-

tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

rectory. Rates on application.

 

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

R. E. MOORE
AYTORNEY-AT-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.,
Bluefield, W. Va.

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

 

 

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAWYER

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

New York Office: 61 Broadway

Stuart CHEVALIER, '03
MILLER AND CHEVALIER

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg., ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT Law

Huntington, West Virginia

Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE

Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Florida

W. H. Jacxson, 08 J. W. DUPREE, at

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT Law

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, ’13
ATTORNEY at Law

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

 

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
AccoUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CoNSULTANTS
Bankers Trust Building,
Wainut 6400-6401

Philadelphia

Compliments of the President of the
Alumni, Inc.

BE. . CAPFREY, 09

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D.C.

ALEX M. HITZ

ATTORNEY AT Law

210 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlania, Georgia

 

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E. Smitherman
SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
Law OFFICES
Commercial National Bank Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN, 15
AvTTroRNEY AT Law

Suite 479 Mills Building,

San Francisco, California

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

Os ee ie

a
A

 

 

 

 

E. P. DAVIS, President C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

HEADQUARTERS FOR THE VIRGINIA GAME

MAIL ORDERS FOR

RECORD, W. and L. Swing by W. and L. Orchestra—50c. prepaid
SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—-Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00

Promptly Filled
M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

 

wy

pain TESTI

AN ag ice

THIE AITLULUMNI MAG&4&Zi
AND SUMMER BULLETIN
PUBLISHED BY
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

FE. C. Carrrey, President VERBON E.. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GrawaM, Jr., Treasurer Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924,

CONTENTS

PAGE PAGE
Whe Yea. 3. ee 2 Cae Views... 30-31
Commencement (b...e . .. 6-9 Mig oi Flood ....... 32
Don (es Glam... 2a ee, 6 On the Negative—Editorial..................., 33
Actions of W. & L. Board of Trustees........ 8 Local Alunagi and Lexingiu: .............).. 34
Students Finance Athletic Field Bridge........ 10 Hunter MeMonald ..-0 0 i 35-36
Ps 10-14 J. W. Gage  t—‘C‘“‘C##CUC —o 37
Who’s on Your Campus (C. J. McDermott). ..15-16 eome Rockigigce ElMiory @.....0..,..5.,0 4 38
Deewugion (MM. W. Pax fe. .c.........: ee .. |. Cheng 22.4 hE 39
Minutes of Alumni, Inc., Meeting, June 6, 1927.. 18 an. interestiug History... 207. 7 0 ge 40
Faculty Changes—With the Faculty, Etc.....19-21 Mootball Thingy. Years Ago 7 1... 41
A Message tfom the Presideit 1... 2... 22 ee 42, 54
esatding Alginm Paige 3 22)... ck: 23 plartiaces 6... ge 42
Peels 8. es 26 Letters of Kiffin Rockwell (Conclusion)........ 43
ro Wm Dold 8. 2/ Early History of Washington College (Cont'd).
Oppose Chapel Admission Charge.............. ZO. a ee 44, 46, 48
Famous Pets. of “Famous People...... 0... 2... 28 Perepnals ........)0 2 45, 47, 49
Walter Fred. ce 29

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager lexington, Virginia

   

 

(- LEXINGTON
Shrine of the South

  
   

 

Homes oF MatruEw Fon-
TAINE MAuRY AT
Vo Mea

RUINS oF Ligeety Hai

 

AcApEMy, Now WaASH-

INGTON AND LEE UNI- O_p Stongé CHurcH TIM-

VERSITY, Burtt In 1793 . oo. ., _ : ae 1 (1  xper Rinck, GENERAL SAM
: a co Houston Was __ Born
NEAR THs Spot

 

 

 

 

    

ee

Cyrus McCormick Homest&Ap Ne&AR LEXINGTON Tur First Lexincton Homgs oF Gen. LEE Also WHERE
STONEWALL JACKSON ONcE LIVED AND WHERE
He Was MarrieEp

|

HISHeRIC PLACES

il inane pace

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE |

 

and SUMMER BULLETIN

Vor. HI AUGUST, 1927 No. 4

THe ALuMNI Macazinz, Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
The Summer Bulletin, Issued Annually by Washington and Lee University

 

The Year

Students assembled, heard student speakers pro-
pose that the student body finance the construction of
a foot-bridge from the gym to the athletic field, heard
faculty speakers outtine the need for such a bridge,
agreed to finance the project, pledged $25,000 toward
it, paid $5,000 of the amount in cash.

Reality stared at students sternly; forced them to
the mid-night oil; took toll of dissipation, of inatten-
tiveness, of skipping and skimming. Examinations
were on. Students studied.

Examinations were over. ‘The tension from two
weeks’ “cramming” was ended. Many _ students
packed, hurried home to summer jobs, vacation trips,
camps, etc. Others remained for Commencement.

The moaning wail of a saxophone, the blare from
Jan Garber’s expensive fifteen piece dance orchestra,
echoed over the campus Friday night, June 3rd, an-
nounced that Finals had begun. Remaining students,
visiting girls and friends responded to the clarion
call, assembled in joyful, colorful convocation.

Darkly solemn in cap and gown one hundred and
thirty-four successful candidates for graduation faced
the impressive recumbent statute in the chapel Sun-
day morning, heard Dr. W. W. Memminger, rector
of All Saints Church, Atlanta, Ga., preach from the
text, “Behold the Man.”

A few students, many visitors and friends gath-
ered at dusk on the velvet green campus lawn, sang
hymns, heard Dr. Churchill Gibson talk on prayer
at the “Y” vesper service Sunday evening.

Returned alumni, few in number, gathered at the
library for the annual meeting of the Alumni, Inc.

Judge E. C. Caffrey presided. Various reports were -

made. ‘The secretary’s proposal for the- use of the
old McLaughlin house as an alumni building was
referred to a special committee. President Smith
spoke. Judge Charles J. McDermott, University
trustee, delivered the speech of the day, was ac-
corded an enthusiastic ovation, responded with an
eloquent address of unusual merit and charm, was
openly complimented from the floor by members
present.

Able trustees met, composed the supreme govern-
ing body of the University, voted to charge an ad-
mission of twenty-five cents to the Lee chapel, voted
a salary raise to many professors, increased the
present tuition fee by twenty-five dollars, regret-
fully accepted the resignation of trustee F. T. Glas-
gow, acted on many administrative matters of minor
importance.

Alumni and faculty teams met on the North
River “island”, played for six innings to a 6-6 dead-
lock baseball score, called the game for the boat-
race, watched the Harry Lee crew outdistance the
Albert Sidney crew by a boat length at the finish
line.

Alumni, old and young, marched in line for the
alumni figure at the Senior-Alumni Ball on Monday
night. Led by alumni president E. C. Caffrey with
Mrs. L. J. Desha, two long columns marched down
the floor formed the figure U., broke into a waltz.

Again graduates assembled, followed the trustees
and faculty in impressively robed procession into
the chapel; heard President Henry Louis Smith re-
view the year; heard Hon. Martin W. Littleton,
famed lawyer, talk with forceful simplicity on the
ways and means of life; applauded; heard their
valedictorian; received individually from the hands
of the president at the recommendation of the vari-
ous deans, an engraved parchment signifying the
degree of their graduation; received a prayerful
benediction. Thus the 178th session of Washington
and Lee was officially closed.

Again the saxophone wailed. Dancers assembled
in a transformed gymnasium for the Final Ball,
danced until dawn. Accompanied by a lone violin
graduating seniors gathered in the center of the
dance floor, sang “College Friendships”, dissembled
with many a tearful farewell.

Outgoing buses, trains and private cars cleared
the way for the V. M. I. Finals; then another in-
flux and exodus, and Lexington settled down to ten
weeks of restful normality. ‘The year was closed.

 

 

 

bit NO aa maa aah

 

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Baccalaureate Sermon

At the baccalaureate service held in Lee Memorial
Chapel Sunday morning, June 5th, the preacher was
Rev. W. W. Memminger, rector of All Saints
Church, Atlanta, Ga. ‘The theme from which he
drew, as he specifically stated, lessons for the gradu-
ating class, lay in the words of Pilate, the Roman
governor, “Ecce Homo’’—Behold the Man. |

The sermon was impressively introduced by the
reading of the story of the Day of Pentecost, as
found in Acts, second chapter, by the Rev. Churchill
Gibson, followed by the singing of “How Firm a
Foundation,” recognized by some present as General
Robert E. Lee’s favorite hymn. ‘The speaker invited
his hearers to go back in imagination almost . 2,000
years to a scene he recalled. Before a courthouse
there appeared a mob crying, “Crucify Him.” At
the head of the steps of the building appeared a Ro-
man governor looking perplexed and dubious; on the
stairway was the victim, wearing a scarlet robe, a
crown of thorns, a blood-stained brow. Finally Pi-
late exclaimed, “Behold the Man.” Not only Chris-
tian people, but the intelligent heathen world now
echo the words, “Behold the Man.”

The preacher talked to the graduates of the charac-
teristics which this Christ-man stood for, which have
secured him such recognition, and drew from those
characteristics practical lessons for the graduates in
life.

Outstanding among them was to be seen his cour-
age. Not simply physical courage, noble as that 1s,
but the moral courage which stood out for truth, did
not fear to lash hypocrites in high places, did not
yield to demands to insure popularity. Youth should
be wary against yielding their fine instincts of man-
hood, that they might receive the appreciation of the
thoughtless and wayward among their fellows.

Again, Christ illustrated that sense of responsibil-
ity which answered affirmatively the question of Cain,
“Am I my brother’s keeper?’ He recognized the
fullest responsibility and obligation of man to his fel-
lows. He felt responsible for the standards of life
of his fellowmen. ‘The Scripture quotation found
back in the Old Testament, and often repeated, “Be
sure your sins will find you out” had an origin often
forgotten. It was a prophetic utterance to the two
tribes beyond Jordan, of what would overtake them
if they failed to recognize their obligations to the ten
tribes advancing over Jordan to secure their homes.

The preacher recalled his preaching at an insane
asylum in Georgia to hundreds of inmates, and being
told by the superintendent afterwards that four-fifths
of them owed their condition to early habits of vice.
He recalled preaching at a state penitentiary in Geor-
gia to many hundreds, then returning to preach to his

fashionable city congregation, there came to his mind
that the wealth and luxury and power they had all
won and were enjoying were the things sought after
by the men who in seeking it had found their way to
prison cells. The lesson to youth was the responsi-
bility of setting a standard of right living to their as-
sociates and other classes.

Thirdly, Jesus from his youth up had pursued a
search to find out the will of God, to know, by com-
munion with Him God’s will and God’s law. In so
doing he formed that character which elevated man
and brought his fellowmen under the rule of divine
will. Jesus, too, exemplified sympathy, and compas-
sion for the less fortunate.

These qualities called for cooperative service by
men in the service which Jesus rendered. Jesus came
not to be ministered unto but to minister. These
qualities are the sign and symbol of the Cross and of
the Son of God.

Invocation at the opening of the service was of-
fered by Rev. W. W. Morton. Congregational sing-
ing was led by the choir of Lee Memorial Church.

(From the Rockbridge County News.)

 

INITIATES TO DAN OWEN’S HAM

Dan Owen’s (12) ham has become an established
institution at Finals. (AnumMNnr Macazine, June,
1927). ‘This year’s initiates to the Order of the Ham
were “Randy” Cabell, °17, Dr. Carl White, °17, and
J. R. Caskie, 06.

A new feature during the ceremonial rites observed
this year was the formation of a ladies auxiliary. Mrs.
Owen, Mrs. White and Mrs. Cabell were made char-
ter members. “Jimmie” Caskie was not represented
in the organization of “ribs” for obvious reasons.

For the benefit of the uninitiated it must be ex-
plained that Dan Owen is in the ham and apple busi-
ness. He has made a habit of bringing samples with
him to Finals every year—and he doesn’t miss a
Finals. While the effervescent undergrad is lifting
ankles to the dying strains of a closing waltz a few
chosen alumni slip from the scene of light and gaiety
to a secluded spot in or about Lexington and partake
of the ham. This process is repeated nightly until
both dances and ham have gone the way of all flesh.

In honor of the “ribs” organization this year Mrs.
Owen presided with the carving knife. Dan officiated
with pickles, cheese and crackers. From the size and
number of the slices consumed one would judge that
the genial Dan had discovered a ham curing process
of peculiar magic.

It appears that the Order of the Ham will be a per-
manent institution—but few are chosen for the honor
of membership.

 

escape

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

Commencement---Mr. Littleton’s Address

DreLomas to 134 GRADUATES AWARDED AT 1781TH
COMMENCEMENT AT WASHINGTON AND LEE.

Diplomas were awarded June 7th at the 178th
Commencement to 134 graduates. Of these, twenty-
five were law degrees, fifty-six were bachelor of arts,
two master of arts and fifty-one bachelor of science.
The auditorium was crowded with graduates, parents
and friends of graduates for the exercises.

Hon. Martin W. Littleton, a leader of the New
York bar, addressed the graduates as the orator of
the occasion in a finely tempered, practical and in-
spiring speech. In an unassuming and yet forceful
manner, this tried advocate of many important legal
battles poured forth practical truths that he had evi-
dently learned in his. useful and notable career. At
the conclusion of his address, he was made the re-
cipient of the degree of LL.D. from the board of
trustees of the University.

Mr. Littleton’s address dealt primarily with the se-
lection of life’s work and the pursuit of it in attaining
happiness. He pictured the world into which the
graduates were entering, reviewing the marvelous
achievements of the past thirty years since he began
the practice of law and the things to which these
young men were born which were then unknown.
There is no formula, he said, for success and happi-
ness. It all depends upon the individual.

Touching upon some of the elemental forces which
go to make up success, he first mentioned ambition as
the dynamic force in men’s character. It is, however,
he said, a dangerous weapon and must be curbed and
guided. ‘There is nothing so tragic as uncontrolled
ambition. The first principle of success, then, said
Mr. Littleton, is to “know thyself.” Find out your
own limitations and then you can choose the battle
where you will meet the world and not have your
enemy choose it. He then made an interesting refer-
ence to the choice of his own life work.

After choosing a vocation with a view to one’s own
limitations, atuning one’s self to the world without
the surrender of ideals and fundamentals, Mr. Lit-
tleton then emphasized the importance of intellectual
honesty. He illustrated the importance of this virtue
in connection particularly with the law, politics and
the editorial profession. ‘The question, he said, had
often been raised as to whether a lawyer could de-
fend a man he knew was guilty. With intellectual
honesty, there is no conflict between such a situation
and duty to one’s state.

As another element to success, he stressed courage
as absolutely essential, and with ambition, honesty,
courage and careful selection of a life work, he called
upon the young men before him to go to work.
Work, under these circumstances is not a idiocity but

a pleasure said Mr. Littleton. A titter ran through
the audience as the speaker said “You have been edu-
cated here; you will now be called upon to be intellt-
gent.” With all seriousness he explained that the
training would be worthless unless harnessed and
made to serve them. Work, said the speaker, with
these elements as a background, comes as easy as heat
comes from the sun and water from the heavens.
This word work is a beautiful word.

Asking the question what would secure happiness,
he said it would not be found in thrills and in frills,
not along the rollicking boulevards, in foreign capt-
tals, nor in the quiet countryside, but in a man’s rela-
tion to other men and his God. It comes in no freak
way. The nearest thing to happiness, he said, is in
the home, not its architecture nor its form, but the
home that is a soul.

Mr. Littleton, in opening his remarks, recalled a
summer at Washington and Lee studying under John
Randolph Tucker where he got in this short time
practically all of his legal education. He recalled
these months with pleasure and fancied that he re-
tained inspirational forces that he had never been able
to lose. Paying a fine tribute to his old teacher he
said, “What a glory and privilege it is to be a Tucker
of Virginia.”

The exercises of the morning were opened at 11 A.
M. with prayer by Rev. Lapsley Carson, of Rich-
mond, member of the board of trustees. Preceding
the address of the morning, President Henry Louis
Smith announced the winners of scholarships. Fol-
lowing the address, the diplomas were presented, and
as explained by Dean Harry D. Campbell they were
delivered for the first time during this century with
honors. President Smith then delivered the honorary
degrees conferred by the board, of which in addition
to the degree conferred upon Mr. Littleton, there
were only two. These were the degree of doctor of
divinity conferred upon Rev. W. W. Memminger, of
Atlanta, the baccalaureate preacher, and the degree of
doctor of divinity to Rev. James J. Murray, of Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church.

President Smith delivered the diplomas to the stu-
dent graduates in groups and with appropriate  re-
marks, and generous applause from the audience
followed each presentation.

A short but appropriate valedictory address was
delivered by Samuel Adams McCain.

President Smith announced the awarding of two
special prizes. The first was the prize (given by
Paul D. Converse, 15), awarded by vote of the stu-
dent body to the best all-round man, considering
model character, social qualities, intellectual attain-

(Continued on next page)

 

 

 

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Actions of Washington and Lee Board of Trustees

The board of trustees of Washington and Lee
University at its semi-annual meeting Monday, June
6th, in Lexington, passed a resolution charging an
admission of twenty-five cents to visitors to Lee
chapel. The fund thus derived will go toward
maintaining the custodian and for maintenance of
the chapel and grounds. The resolution was strongly
advocated by Dr. Bolling Lee of New York, mem-
ber of the board and grandson of General Lee. ‘The
executive committee was authorized to make such
exceptions as to the charge as it should deem proper.

The board also authorized the purchase of display
cases and the fitting up of a room in the basement
of the chapel for the display of Lee relics as soon
as sufficient funds were derived from the admission
fee. The appropriation of $100.00 for further pur-
chase of relics of General Robert FE. Lee was con-
tinued, and the committee on Lee relics was directed
to have printed folders, cards and photographs for
sale to visitors, and profits from such sales to go to
the chapel fund.

Upon recommendation of a special committee ap-
pointed for the purpose, professors’ salaries were
raised substantially by the board at its Monday meet-
ing. The general scheme of the increase was as fol-
lows: Full professors ranging between $3,500 and
$4,500; associate professors between $2,600 and
$3,400; assistant professors between $2,000 and
$2,600; instructors between $1,500 and $2,000. ‘The
maximum salary now paid is $3,900, making an in-
crease of $600 in the maximum.

The increase is to be taken care of by an advance
in student tuition fees of $25.00, making the tuition
$250.00 a year, and with the registration fee, $260.00.
This is made payable as follows: Registration fee.
$10.00; $125.00 in September and $125.00 in Janu-
ary. ‘The total increase in salaries. will mean an ad-
dition of about $14,000.00 to the pay roll, while the
estimated tuition increase will add about $22,000 to
the treasury. A reservation, however, is made from
the increase to take care of certain other contin-
gencies. ‘

The resolution also changes the basis of paying
salaries, making the salary dependent upon merit
rather than entirely upon length of service in de-
termining the amount within its limits given above.
The board also in this connection raised the rents on
the professors’ houses. 3

The resignation of Trustee Frank T. Glasgow on
account of illness was accepted and a committee ap-
pointed to convey the regret of the board upon his
resignation.

The treasurer of the university was authorized to
install a second floor in the front room of the old
chemical laboratory in Washington building, and
the space thus divided to be occupied by the depart-
ments of biology and journalism.

The president was authorized to secure the serv-
ices of experts in higher education to make a thor-
ough study of the present degrees and degree re-
quirements, submitting a report of conclusions and
recommendations. | |

The matter of dealing with the department of
Biblical studies and moral philosophy was referred
to a committee and Rev. William W. Morton con-
tinued as assistant professor.

An appropriation of $500.00 was ordered for the
law library.

The resignation of Professor Lewis ‘Tyree of the
law school faculty was accepted with due apprecia-
tion of his faithful services to the University.

The board authorized the granting of a right of
way to the town for a sewer line along Woods
creek and a right of way to the state of Virginia

through a narrow strip west of Lexington on state

road No, 14.

Due to the absence of Rector L. H. Cocke on ac-
count of illness, Judge C. J. McDermott presided.
The following trustees were present: William A.
Anderson, G. W. St. Clair, Harrington Waddell, J.
S. Munce, W. D. Lewis, S. McC. White, W. A.
MacCorkle, J. W. Davis, H. B. Sproul, C. J. Mc
Dermott, J. R. Caskie, George Bolling Lee and W.
L. Carson. The board adjourned until a called
meeting October 11th,

 

 

COMMENCEMENT
(Continued from preceding page.)

ments and campus citizenship, which was awarded to
Robert Maynard Holt of ‘Tennessee. ‘The other,
awarded for the first time in the history of the insti-
tution, to the graduate with the most outstanding
character and qualities as exemplified in everyday
life, went to Robert Wilbur Simmons, of West Vir-

ginia. ‘This prize was awarded through the courtesy
of the Southern society of New York City.

In a few well chosen remarks, Dr. Smith bade fare-
well to the graduates, congratulating them upon their
success, the school upon its new representatives in
the world, and with an expression of warm hope for
their success in life. ‘The exercises were closed with
the benediction by Dr. Memminger.—R ockbridge
County News.

oi ato

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

ALUMNI-FACULTY TIE IN BASEBALL
GAME

An interesting feature at Commencement was the

Faculty-Alumni baseball game on the island preceding
the boat race Monday afternoon. Elderly and digni-
fied gentlemen braved sore muscles and ridiculous
performance to afford a merry afternoon for the
spectators, and all entered into the spirit of the oc-
casion. The game looked like a goner for the faculty
until Clayton Williams, pitcher and all-round star of
the faculty aggregation, knocked a home run with the
bases. full to tie the score, 6 to 6. This broke up the
game, and it was a good hit, though scarcely a home
run in any other league. Eddie Davis and Will Mc-
Elwee showed good form for the alumni. ‘The line-
ups were as follows: Alumni—F red Deaver, catcher ;
Eddie Davis, first base; Dick Smith, second base;
Leggitt, shortstop; Barker, third base; Bruce Morri-
son, Verbon Kemp, Malcolm Campbell and Will Mc-
Elwee, outfielders; and Slack, pitcher. Faculty—Har-
rison, catcher; Williams, pitcher; Dominick, first
base; Hancock, second base; Paxton, shortstop;
Dickey, third base; Wooten, Moffatt, and Funk-

~houser, fielders.

 

THEY CAME BACK!

“Very few alumni back this year’ was the dis-
appointed plaint of some at Finals. ‘The attendance
at the annual alumni meeting was poor. But when
alumni lined up for the alumni figure at the Senior
ball they formed a column twice the length of the
gymnasium. W. T. Armstrong, ’87, of Galveston,
Texas, and J. B. McCartney of Fort Worth, travelled
the greatest distance. However, Mr. Albert Steves,
74, arrived from San Antonio a few days after
Finals. B. A. Judd, ’96, of New York, returned
after a long absence. Many were here to exchange
greetings at the annual alumni luncheon.

Those registering at alumni headquarters were: J.
H: T. Sutherland, ‘21; Darby H. Brown, Jr., ’25;
Roy Ce Slack,¢25; Charles Barrett,, 24; Byron
Hayes, ’22; Francis Rector, ’23; G. D. Davidson,
13; John CC. Hoover 22; W. lThem, Jr... 713;
Charles A. Tutwiler, 724; Robert P. Cooke, ’92; Paul
M. Penick, 96; J. S. Edmondson, 719; D. B, Owen,
12; Edwin H. Howard, ’24; Ralph L. Scott, ’25;
Claude P, Light, 11; Raytord W. Alley, 10; 1. C.
Caffrey, 09; Eddie Davis, 715; Monte Ray, ——; W.
O. Burtner, ’21; Jas. R. Caskie, 09; Gordon Wilson,
23; S. M. Harrison, 00; H. Austin Spang, Jr., ’25;
W. T. Ellis, 02; C. W. White, "21; Emmett W. Mc-
Corkle, ’75: J. S. Hansel, “17; A. G. Robinson; 770,
W. Reid Steele, ’26; F. M. Thompson, ’21; Stuart
Moore, ’21; J. Shirley Riley, °16; J. Morrison Hut-

cheson, 02; John C. Moomaw, ’11; John N. Thomas,
‘24; J. G: Johnston, ’11; Geo. W. Chaney, ’11; R. E.
Witt, 06; Harle K, Paxton, 08; Jas. S’ Smith, Ir.,
29; Edward L. Junkin, ’15; Charles H. Patterson,
26; J. W.. Callison, 20: L.A, Dunlap, (22> fohn F.
Hepher, ’14; H. Bryson Glass, ’26; W. O. Burtner,
‘21; S. M. Glasgow, 03; C. S. Glasgow, ’09; Fred
McWane, 13; Gip.- Woodson, 17; |. VV. Coe> | 8.
Hendrix; R. Smith; C. Owen; J. R. Leggate, Jr.; C.
IL. Allen; C. Heilig; J. Rountree; A. Lambert; S.
mith; H. B. Sproul, Jr.; H. E. Henderson; J. B.
McCartney; T’. X. Parsons; Geo. Chaney, and Otis
Howe.

tes

HARRY LEE WINS ANNUAL CREW RACE

Before a record crowd, the Red Harry Lee crew,
captained by George Varney, led its ancient rival, the
Blue Albert Sidney, under the tape for victory once
more.

Pulled over the mile and one-quarter ‘course on
North River the race was one of the closest in years
with the time being well under five minutes. The Red
oarsmen used their heavier weight to advantage on
the home stretch, pulling away from the Albert Sidney
four to win by one-half boat length.

The race started shortly after six o’clock with
Coach Fletcher firing the gun and Coach Smith and
Mercer Graham officiating at the finish line. Letcher
stroked the Harry Lee with Holt at 3, Varney at 2,
and A. Pierpont at 1.

The Blue of Albert Sidney was carried by Rector,
stroke, Garvin 3, James 2 and Junkin 1. Wither-
spoon coxswained the Albert Sidney club, while Reed
handled the rudder for the Harry Lee boat.

New shells graced the water when the two rivals
opposed each other. The new boats were much alike,
both being finished in natural color. ‘They received

their initial competition when the second and i*ird

crews of both clubs raced Saturday.

 

 

 

 

“Harry Lee Won”

 

 

 

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

STUDENTS FINANCE ATHLETIC FIELD
BRIDGE

A handsome steel or concrete footbridge will
span the railroad cut from the Gymnasium to Wil-
son field in the near future! ‘The Washington and
Lee student body pledged $25,000 toward this proj-
ect at a student assembly held just before Com-
mencement. $5,000 of this amount was paid in cash
and a like amount is to be paid in September. This
enables the Athletic Association to start construc-
tion this summer. ‘The bridge’ should be ready for
use at the annual W. & L,-Va. game on November
5th. :

This project was presented to the student body
tfpon recommendation of the graduating class and
approval by the student Executive Committee. Stu-
dent body president, R. Maynard Holt, was in
charge of the assembly. Various phases of the
project were discussed by J. L. Lanier, ’27, and L.
S. Stemmons, ’27, of the student body and by Dean
W. H. Moreland and Dr. R. G. Campbell of the
Faculty. It met with a unanimous endorsement.
The gift will be known as the “Class Bridge” in
honor of the classes of ’27, ’28, ’29 and ’30. |

Always handicapped by inconvenient approaches,
the athletic field will now be directly linked with the
gymnasium and the campus. ‘The proposed bridge
will start just below the gymnasium, span the rail-
road, Woods Creek and the tennis courts and end at
the football field. It will become the main gateway
to Wilson field since automobiles can be better
parked around the gymnasium than at the former
driveway entrance.

It is estimated that the bridge will cost around
$35,000. ‘Thus $10,000 remains to be raised. ‘The
fund will be in charge of graduate manager R. A.
(“Dick”) Smith. Several estimates on the con-
struction have already been received. If contracts
are let before August 15th, it is felt that the bridge
will he ready by November 5th for the accommoda-
tic. of the crowds attending the General-Cavalier
football classic.

This generous action of the 1927 student body
will provide the first individual memorial structure
on the campus, with the exception of the alumni
Memorial Gateway. The absence of such distinc-
tive marks of loyalty has been deplored by alumni
and visitors in the past. All credit to the 1927 stu-
dent officers, the Ring-tum Phi and the Senior
Class presidents.

WILSON FIELD

When September rolls around again and the foot-
ball aspirants take to the gridiron, few will recognize
Wilson Field. Just one year ago work began on the
field, and when one sees it in September it will have
an entirely different appearance.

Much time has been spent in sowing grass on the
field and: along the north bank where the planting of
roses, giving the east its first rose bank, was once con-
sidered. Besides planting the field in grass, a new
wire fence has been constructed, which during the
summer will be kept locked to prevent trespassers on
the field. i

Proposed plans had been drawn up to complete the
west sector of the grandstand with the addition of
three tiers of seats, but with the bridge project under-
way the Athletic Association has found it impossible
to continue the grandstand. However, as soon as all
financial arrangements for the bridge have been com-
pleted, work will be started on the addition to the
stadium.

VARSITY FOOTBALL SCHEDULE FOR 1927

September 24—Iynchburg (here). |
October 1—West Virginia (Charleston).

: 8—Duke (here).

. 15—Princeton (there).

' 22—Kentucky (there).

. 29—-Maryland (here).

November 5-—Virginia (here).
. 12—V. P. I. (there).
" 24—Florida (Jacksonville).

 

 

 

“Acrion’—A FEast For FoorBalL Fans, Lexrncton, Nov. StH

 

 

>

Mie ER, aan

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

A FOOTBALL DOUBLE-HEADER,
NOVEMBER 5th

Saturday, Nov 5th, will be a gala day in Lexington.
It will be a double home-coming occasion for the V.
M. I. and W. & L. alumni. At 11 A. M. the annual
V. M. I.-Carolina game will be played at the V. M.
I. stadium. At 3 P. M. Washington and Lee will
meet Virginia on the new Wilson field. Football will
be king for the day.

A conflict in schedule brings about this unusual
spectacle of a football double-header. The V. M. I
athletic association graciously agreed to play their
game in the morning in order that visitors may have
an opportunity to witness both battles. Thus the
alumni program will be:

Registration at Alumni Headquarters.

11 A. MV. M. I.-Carolina game, V. M. I.
Stadium ;

1 P.M. —W.& L. Alumni luncheon, Alumni
Building ;

3 P. M.—W. & L,.-Virginia game, Wilson field.

‘All roads will lead to Lexington, but they are good
roads. Visitors driving from the South will find ex-
cellent roads by way of Chattanooga, Knoxville, Bris-
tol and Roanoke (Lee Highway route) or by Char-
lotte, Winston-Salem and Roanoke; from the East

by way of Richmond, Charlottesville, and Staunton or

by way of Petersburg, Farmville and Lynchburg;
from the West by way of Charleston, White Sulphur
Springs and Clifton Forge (The Midland trail now
under construction from Clifton Forge to Lexing-
ton); from the North down the Valley Pike by way
of Winchester and Staunton. |

Bus line connections are made with the incoming
trains at Staunton, Lynchburg, and Roanoke.

Hotel reservations should be made in advance at
the Dutch Inn or the Robert E. Lee Hotel in Lexing-
ton or at hotels in Lynchburg, Staunton or Roanoke.
Since the dormitories will be occupied by students
such accommodation as they afford at Finals will not
be available on this occasion. Your Alumni Secretary
will make advance reservation in the private homes
of Lexington, upon notification, for alumni failing to
secure hotel accommodations.

Tickets should be secured in advance for the Wash-
ington and Lee-Virginia classic by writing to gradu-
ate manager R. A. Smith, Lexington, with remittance
of $2.00 each. ‘Tickets for the V. M. I.-Carolina

game can be secured in advance upon remittance of

$2.00 each to Major Blandy Clarkson, V. M. I.
graduate manager, Lexington.

It will be a football carnival, a feast for the foot-
ball fan,

FOOTBALL PROSPECTS
By R. A. Smitu, Graduate Manager of Athletics

In looking over the squad that
Coach J. P. Herron has picked
to report on Wilson field the
first Monday in September, we
find such stars as “Ty” Rauber,
“all Southern” full back; May-
nard Holt, South Atlantic tackle;
Mike Palmer and Bunny Whit-
lock, fleet half backs, missing
from the regulars of the Wash-
ington and Lee football squad.
It is not known definitely whether
Rector (center) who hails from
Ravenwood, West Va., will re-
turn, although he will probably
be missed as much as any of the
above. Rector played every
minute of last season and is one
of the most dependable passers
the squad has ever had. Rector’s
“Base” Sports, Star End return will go a long ways to «

boost the generals’ prospects
this fall. The other monogram men returning are
Capt. Tips (guard), Group (guard), Fitzpatrick
(tackle), Spotts (end), Bailey (end), Dorsey (end),
Fisher (tackle), Stearns (full back), White (half
back), Howe (half back), Towill (end). Other
promising scrubs are Barclay (half back), Bear
(guard), Hostetter (tackle), Moffett (end), Morgan
(tackle), Seligman (guard), “Ed” Smith (half back),
Spencer (center), Spencer (end), Sproul (end),
Streit (tackle), Taylor (half back), Eigleback (end).

The most promising men coming up from the fresh-
man squad are: Barnett (half), Eberhart (half),
Bledsoe (end), Hawkins (tackle), Schmitt (end),
Snodgrass (center), Spivey (guard), Hayes (quarter
back), Wood (quarter back), Holstein (center),
Kasson (full back).

Much is expected of Billy Lott (quarter back) who
was out of games last season with a bad ankle. Lott
is a product of Greenbriar Military School and starred
on the football team there. His home is in Mobile,
Ala. Hughes, a big linesman from Cushing, Okla., is
expected to bolster up the Generals’ line. He was not
eligible last season. Wagoner, a tackle under Jimmy
DeHart, is also expected to return.

 

The squad will report first Monday in September
and will be given two drills per day in order to get
them in shape for a hard schedule.

Coach Herron will be assisted by F. P. Davis and
Mike Palmer. Davis will have charge of freshmen.

 

 

12 7 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Tn-State College Ball League Formed

A collegiate baseball league, calling itself the
“Southern Conference ‘Tri-State Baseball League”
and having as members seven schools in Virginia,
North Carolina and Maryland which belong to the
Southern Intercollegiate Conference, was organized at
the Virginia Hotel, Lynchburg, when graduate athletic
managers of six of the number were present. A base-
ball schedule, calling for two games between each two
teams, except between Washington and Lee and Vir-
ginia Military Institute was arranged for the spring
of 1928.

Members of the league are University of Virginia,

Virginia Polytechnic Institute, Virginia Military In-
stitute, Washington and Lee University, University of
North Carolina, North Carolina State College and
University of Maryland. No officers were elected at
the meeting. The managers will assemble in Lynch-
burg again next spring to arrange the schedule for
1929.

Nothing definite regarding an award for the league
championship was demanded, except that there will be
a trophy to become the permanent possession of the
member which first wins it for the third year. The
prize will belong to the champion each year until a
new champion is enthroned.

With the exception already mentioned, each team
has a home-and-home arrangement with each of the
other seven each year. The games, however, are not
required to be played on the home grounds of the other

 

 

BASEBALL SCORES FOR PAST SEASON

& L., 1; Springfield, 4.
& L., 2; Ga. Tech, 0.
& L.—South Carolina, rain.
& L,, 6; Duke, 4.
& L.—Cornell, rain.
_& L.—Pennsylvania, rain.
——Richmond, rain.
., 1; Richmond, 8.
3 45 Bt, Pokus, Z.
., 8; Richmond Med. Col., 0
yore? 1. 4.
= eli: Hioca, 6.
—South Garching rain.
9; Duke, 6.
. aS Cornell, 1.
—Pennsylvania, rain.
ie Syracuse, 5 (11 innings).
. 8; Virginia, 0.
Igy ee.
3s
8;

of

3

<

; Quantico Marines, 6.
; Virginia, 9.

=

SASS S AAR AAA AAS SAAS RER

Ro Ro RE Ro Bo Ro Ro Bo Ro Ro B> Bo Ro Bo &
Ure. te eee es

Ss

team. ‘The schedule arranged does not include Mary-
land’s foreign games, since it was not known when the
Old Liner management was planning its Southern
trip. ‘Those six games will soon be given dates.

Since a custom exists by which Virginia and North
Carolina play three games a season, the third on a
neutral field, May 12th was set for the extra game,
to be played at Greensboro. The result of the contest
will not be counted in determining the standing of
the teams in the league.

The schedule is subject to the approval of the
faculty committees of the seven institutions. Follow-
ing out a tradition set some years back, Washington
and Lee and V. M. I. will not meet. Hence, each of
these will have ten games as opposed to twelve by the
other six.

-Robert C. Harper, sports editor of the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, was appointed statician of the league.
The schedule follows:

April 6 —W. & L. at
. 7—W. & L. at

. State

"al ae .
"oo iN, Coan.

= 92 ae

"lee N C. at Bid.

ee ee
ae NO at ya.

‘S71 cd at Ve UP. 1.

720 ME Peat N.C. State:

oO oat va.

ot et ee iid

“Sore wt ak ee.

Cs ores \a ety &

2s Ne ae G. Site

oie Vea Vv ed,

2 ore a Ne

Go 26 ae State.

“28 Wo & 1. at Ald,

2 £6—Va. at VoM. fT:

“ 30--N. C. State at Md.
May ~beN, Coat Va ©

s 2-_N. ©. State at yo Me. FE

q 3 _N. ©. Stateat y oc

- 4-N, C. State gr ve

o A Va: at Ma

: 5 -V. M: 1, apt.

“ 10—Va. at N. Ce aaa.

‘{--11+Va. ae

*  11l-VaP 2 ee es

+ 12-Vi 2 oe

«--15—V. Ne ee

“ [O-- Wes

‘<" 2I—N, Gee at

 

 

en nln

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

NETMEN LOSE FIVE MATCHES

The Washington and Lee tennis team played five
matches on their northern trip with the following
teams: Swarthmore, Haverford, Rutgers, Lafayette,
and Lehigh. Although the team did not win any ot
the meets, they showed up well against some of the
finest netmen in the north, each man winning at least
one match. ‘The Washington and [Lee men were
hampered by lack of practice, due to the consistent
rain during the past number of weeks, and did not
play consistently, while the northern combinations
showed their superiority throughout. the matches,
playing an excellent brand of tennis. Cassell and
Dodds played with some exceptionally fine doubles
teams, nevertheless winning two of their matches.

The team first met Swarthmore, May 2, losing
5—2. They next played with Haverford, May 3;
again losing 5—2. At Rutgers on the 4th the meet
was called off while Rutgers was ahead 4—2, though
at the time Washington and Lee was winning the re-
maining two matches. Lafayette won 6—l1l on the
5th. The last meet, on the 6th was won by Lehigh,
considered one of the best collegiate teams in the
country, the score being 6—1. |

The following men went on the trip: J. Cassell
Dobbs, Homer, Pitts, M. Turk, and A. C. Smeltzer,
Assistant Manager.

 

ATHLETIC DIRECTORY

Football: Captain, B. B. Tips; Manager, W. A.
Ward, Jr.; Jr. Manager, G. H. Lanier; Coach, P. R.
Herron.

Cross-Country: Captain, J. A. Pilley; Manager,
P. R. Harrison, Jr.; Jr. Manager, A. L. McCardell;
Coach, F. Fletcher.

Basketball: Captain, H. S. Spotts; Manager, J.
W. Alderson; Jr. Manager, A. B. Morgan; Coach,
Ro AL Smith. .

Track: Captain, W. H. Reardon; Manager, P. R.
Harrison, Jr.; Jr. Manager, A. L. McCardell; Coach,
F. Fletcher. |

Baseball: Captain, J. P. Folliard; Manager, W.
D. Bach; Jr. Manager, A. Boyd, Jr.; Coach, R. A.
Smith.

Boxing: Captain, W. S. Price; Manager, C. F.
Reynolds; Jr. Manager, H. EF. Godwin; Coach (not
elected ). |

Wrestling: Captain, M. Seligman; Manager, C. F.
Reynolds; Jr. Manager, H. FE. Godwin; Coach, A.
E. Mathis.

Swimming: Captain, J. R. Moffett; Manager, O.
N. Smith; Coach, FE. P. Twombly.

Golf: Captain, G. H. Lamier; Manager, G. H.
Lanier; Coach (not elected).

Tennis: Captain (not elected); Manager (not
elected) ; Coach, C. E. Williams.

PICK YOUR ALL-TIME W. & L. ELEVEN

Who were the eleven greatest gridiron performers
to play on W. & L,. teams during the past thirty
years? )

We have all-Southern, all-American and all-this
and all-that choices for mythical super-combinations.
Now we have the suggestion that alumni pick an all-
time W. & L. football team. The result should be
interesting.

Your choice should be limited to the modern game
as played with eleven men. ‘Thus, you should not
go back much more than thirty years. Pick from
the W. & L. teams that you have seen play, either
while in college or in more recent years—the best
all-round performer in each of the eleven positions
—and send your list to the Alumni Secretary.

Dr. R. G. Campbell, 95, and Coach Forest Flet-
cher of Lexington, and C. W. (“Bill”) Streit, ’05,
of Birmingham, Ala., have been asked to act as
judges. Each “pick” will be recorded and the total
votes for each individual in his position tabulated
and sent to the judges. The judges have been
asked to pick the “All-Time Generals,” first, second
and third teams from the lists submitted. Your
“pick” should be sent to the Alumni Secretary be-
fore October Ist.

 

DRASTIC RULE IS RESCINDED

The recent action of the joint basketball rules
committee limiting use of the dribble, has been re-
scinded and the dribble will remain in status quo
for the 1927-28 season.

This announcement was made by John Brown,
Jr., a member of the committee, after a mail vote
among the twenty members of the committee.

The committee adopted the dribble rule, generally
recognized as one of the most drastic bits of basket-
ball legislation in the game’s history, on April 9.
Announcement of the rule was followed by a_na-
tion-wide controversy among coaches, players, of-

ficials and others. The rule would have limited the |

dribble to a single bound, whereas the number of
bounds previously was unlimited.

The committee has decided to defer the change
until its meeting in April, 1928, and urged players,
coaches, officials and others associated with the game
to make a thorough study in the meantime in order
that suggestions might be brought before the meet-
ing next year.

 

FOLLIARD BASEBALL CAPTAIN
John Paul Folliard was elected to lead the 1928
Generals by his team-mates as a fitting tribute for his
great diamond services to the Blue and White for the
past two seasons. “Arc” is the second pitcher to be
given this honor in the past four years, Gus Lindberg
being the other.

 

 

 

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

STUDENT BODY LOST 137 MEN THIS
YEAR

The mills of the gods grind slowly but surely.
They ground 137 men from the University, and
these have passed through channels other than the
usual one of graduation.

At the beginning of the year the enrollment was
the largest in the history of Washington and Lee,
with a total of 932 men registered. The report
from the Registrar’s office shows that the number
has been reduced to 795.

The records show that these 137 left the school
for various reasons. While accurate figures are un-
available, the new automatic scholarship rule is
known to have taken the heaviest toll. The new
cut system came next. Students found that the fac-
ulty rulings on cuts were being more stringently en-
forced than in previous years and over-cutting was
attended with dire results.

A smaller number were lost to the school because
of sundry infractions of other faculty and student
rules, while sickness and family troubles took their
usual number.

TWO INITIATED IN DELTA SIGMA RHO

William A. Plummer and Bernard J. Wagner
were initiated in Delta Sigma Rho, national foren-
sic fraternity. After their initiation, Wagner was
elected president of the chapter, and Plummer elec-
ted secretary-treasurer. Both Wagner and Plum-
mer were also chosen as members of the Washing-
ton and Lee Debating Council. Wagner is a mem-
ber of the Zeta Beta Tau social fraternity, and
Plummer is a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity.
Both have been on the University debating team for
two years. |

DEBATERS WIN LAST CONTEST

The last forensic meet of the year, a dual debate
with Johns Hopkins on the question of a national
marriage and divorce law, was won by Washington
and Lee on May 13th. |

Washington and Lee sent an invading team to
Baltimore and met a team from Hopkins in Lexing-
ton at the Lee Chapel. The team in Lexington,
composed of R. A. Merrett and H. M. Platt, won
a unanimous judges’ decision, while the team that
went to Baltimore, composed of B. J. Wagner and
W. M. Maynard, lost by a two to one decision. The
motion was worded, “Resolved: that a uniform
marriage and divorce law should be passed by the
national government.’ The visiting teams upheld
the affirmative.

OVER ONE MILLION WORDS SENT OUT

More than one million, three hundred thousand
words were sent out by the Washington and Lee
University news service, working under the direc-
tion of the Lee School of Journalism this year.

Nearly a million words of this total were sent
out in connection with the recent Southern Inter-
scholastic Press Association, and the remainder was
sent out during the entire year on news of the Uni-
versity, and what its faculty and students were do-
ing. ‘These figures are exclusive of athletic news,
which was sent out under the supervision of the
athletic department.

The news work was under the direction of How-
ard M. Thompson, acting director of the Lee School
of Journalism, and his assistants, Guinden C. Olson,

of Chicago, and William Hill, of Washington, D.

C., both students. |

It was the hope of the department to have more
than a million and a half words distributed to the
press of the Southern states before the closing of

school in June.
*»

 

COLEMAN BREAKS JAVELIN RECORD

A. R. Coleman, javelin thrower de luxe of the Gen-
erals’ track team, shattered the South Atlantic record
in his event at Richmond to win first place over the
best field in the annual South Atlantic invitation meet.
Coleman hurled the spear 167 feet, 1054 inches. Other
placers were Anderson, Richmond; Justice, W. & M.;
and Young, N. C. State. ,

Captain Milbank qualified in the trial heats for the
finals of the 100-yard dash, which was run for first
place, and Sproul, another Blue and White entry,
qualified for the finals in the high hurdles.

——_—_____—

HIGH SCHOOLS CONTEST IN LEXINGTON

An annual Virginia State High School Literary
and Athletic League contest was held in Lexington
under the auspices of the State of Virginia. Wash-
ington and Lee was chosen to supervise the annual
district championships of this contest. Prof. F.
Flournoy was in charge of the Forensic contest and
Coach Forest Fletcher supervised the athletic events.

Every year the high schools pick their represen-
tatives to each district championship, and the win-
ners of these contestants go to Charlottesville,

where under the auspices of the University of Vir-
ginia, the championship of the state will be run
off: Washington and Lee is the district center for
Pittsylvania, Bath and Amherst high schools.

 

=

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

“Who's on Your Campus”

(Address delivered by Judge Charles J. McDermott
at the Annual Meeting of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association, Inc., Monday,

June Oth.)

My reason for the selection of the title by which
these remarks may be dignified, is to draw to your
attention once again, the romance and enchantment
of this historic place, the dignity of our surround-
ings, the advantages of our possession and the ne-
cessity for eternal vigilance, that the high ideals of
our predecessors may be ever maintained, not only
upon your campus, but upon the field of present
World action and performance, in which as Amer-
icans, all of us are vitally interested.

We are living in a wonderful age of scientific
progress, marvelous invention and superb  achieve-
ment. From the air that we breathe are extracted
speech, melody and song. ‘Through that air and

contrary to the principles of gravity, men are pro-

pelled across the seas from continent to continent.
The transmission of a message from England to
America by word of mouth is an accomplished
achievement; the television is an assured success.

These wonderful accomplishments which are now
treated as everday occurrences, have been the result,
partly of accident, to some extent the product of
imagination, but particularly have these successes
been achieved by reason of the systematic develop-
ment of the human mind. It is in the latter of
these pursuits that this institution is engaged.

Our school is unique. It was founded by the
generosity of a soldier, rejuvenated by the effort of
the South’s greatest military commander. Did ei-
ther dream (for neither knew) of that which this
wonderful era was to witness?

Without answering this question, we are certain
that each believed in Almighty God and in America,
and that each knew that discipline, self-denial and
conscientious effort were necessary for success. We
are certain too that each of these great leaders of
men was aware that eternal diligence, constancy and
faithful effort were the only foundations upon
which Life’s enduring structure could be built and
maintained. These fundamental principles so well
exemplified by them are not new; they have not
been altered by man’s contrivance and_ invention.
There can be no improvement in fundamental
truths, by reason of effort, education, imagination
or accident.

Rare and precious sentiment, honest, faithful and
unfailing endeavor, which constitute the underlying
basis of our continued success as an_ educational
factor in America, pervade your campus; the at-

 

Jupck CHarites J. McDeErmorr
“On Our Campus”

 

 

mosphere of this place is alive with tradition, ro-
mance and enchantment. ‘The wealth of our pos-
session is boundless, because of the principles in-
gratiated into the masonry of our creation. The
honk of the motor horn, the droning of the engine
of the air, cannot drive from your campus the
spirit and memory of Washington or Lee. ‘The ex-
ample of their lives, ever stimulates the purpose of
this institution and its alumni. It arouses too, the
admiration and interest of all true Americans.

That this is so; that there is truth in these state-

ments, is not to be regarded as my prophecy. Nor

is it any idle fancy. It is a faith founded upon ac-
tual circumstance.

About twenty years ago a stranger* came to this
place, unheralded and unannounced, but attracted
by our wealth of tradition and the names of the
founder and preserver of the good reputation which
this college enjoyed. His visit was not recorded.
His presence was not known, but after his death
this University and its Alumni, became aware that
this visitor had found upon this campus, a_ living
spirit of proud Americanism, well worthy and de-

*Ropert P. DoreEmMus

 

(Continued on next page )

 

16

WHO’S ON YOUR CAMPUS (Continued)

 

serving of his substantial contribution. Our visitor
made this contribution. By his will he provided for
a substantial gift. Thus was the diligence and sacri-
fice of the illustrious Americans who founded and
who have sustained this college partly rewarded.

Who may be on your campus today? Who has
visited your campus since then? Is it worth while to
constitute and preserve a vigil? Some day another
visitor may come. ‘That visitor may be another Do-
remus, but he may be of quite another pattern. The
object of his visit may be far different. His purpose
may be of quite another kind.

The questions I have propounded are for you to an-
swer. If you believe in the preservation of this in-
stitution and its traditions, if you believe in Washing-
ton and Lee, if you believe in preserving for posterity,
the kind of doctrine they taught, your answer will be,
“Yes” “Let that Vigil be maintained.”

What has become of the tradition of the Vigil of
the ‘Tomb?

Shortly after the death of General Lee, as I have
lately learned from a College publication, each stu-
dent watched for one day, the tomb of the South's
greatest hero and leader. By this watch the sanctity
of the tomb, the loftiness of character of General i.ee,
who gave the last and best years of his life to this
University, became potentially realized by the student
watcher. He absorbed the heritage of all the noble
tradition surrounding the South’s most hallowed spot,
and the impression obtained could never be eradicated
from his mind.

NT

Turn away from your campus for a moment and
consider what is taking place upon the field of action
of this World at the present time.

For generations, not only here but throughout the
World, vast sums of money have been spent in educa-
tion, and the development and systematic training of
the human mind; this in order that civilization might
become perfected. ‘To some of the accomplishments
of men I have already referred. In 1913 the great
nations of the earth believed themselves to be civilized
communities, and considered that they were guided by
civilized forms of government. Yet, in a moment, the
whole world became inflamed; common sense and
good judgment were debauched; the acts of the savage
and the practices of the barbarian were far exceeded
by the use man made of that education and develop-
ment which years of effort had brought about. Such
acts of cruelty, barbarity and savagery as civilized man
practiced in this great conflict led thoughtful mea to

pause—to wonder at our so-called progression. Some-

times too, when we consider the revelations disclosed

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

by the recent discoveries in the tombs of the Egyp-
tians, when we think of the wonderful engineering
problems which the ancients overcame, the evidences
of which are the mighty pyramids and monuments
which they built, are we so sure that we have surpassed
those who lived before? Has our education led us to
progress? Are the conditions of the World’s campus
today any better than they were a thousand years ago?
Is the improvement real or imaginary? Notwith-
standing our teachings, notwithstanding our belief in
the humanity of today, have we yet learned the lessons
of good government, tranquility and peace. Are men
looking forward to a progress of which the sole re-
ward is to be virtuous accomplishment and nothing
more?
=~ We read today in the public press, that Mussolini in
the Chamber of Deputies, in Rome, lately predicted a
greater Italy; that by 1935, Italy would have a popu-
lation of sixty million of people and an army of five
million men, a strong navy and a huge air force. Ger-
many is boasting that she will soon re-establish her in-
dustrial prestige and have the greatest army and navy
in the world. “Red” Russia is buying arms in Ireland.
England has terminated trade with the Soviet. Kear
Admiral Kittelle reports from Manilla that the agents
of the Soviet have attempted to blow up the Phillipine
Arsenal. China is at war, and within the southern
part of our continent internal dissension and strife are
going on. Endeavor is and has been constantly made,
to foment labor disturbance everywhere.

It was not many years ago, that in a criminal trial
in New York City, there was taken from the posses-
sion of a man convicted for inciting riot, a little book-
let which I have in my possession. I wish to read a
few excerpts. ‘This book is described as “Official
Membership Book, Industrial Workers of the World.”

In the preamble these open statements are made:
“The working class and the employing class have
nothing in common. Between these two
classes a struggle must go on until the workers of the
world organize as a class, take possession of the earth
and the machinery of production and abolish the wage
system.” ‘The motto inscribed opposite the certificate
of initiation is “Labor is entitled to all it produces.”

While, of course, well aware that it is within the
great Metropolitan centers that the “Red” and crim-
inal agencies are mostly at work, while, you believe,
that you know, who is on your campus, while you and

I are confident that the spirit of Washington and the

spirit of Lee are there, while we know that the tomb
of the sainted hero of the South occupies its place in
our little chapel, while we are certain in our belief
that no visitor leaves our campus without a feeling of
reverential awe, because of the very sacredness of the
place, be not lulled into absolute security, even at this

(Continued on page 50)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

|_exington

py MoWeaPaxton, Jr. 21

Lexington has been since
 its infancy, essentially an
 educational center. With its 
interests bound up in two
 great factories of knowl
edge, more material enterprizes on a large scale have
never been encouraged to
locate in the town. Each
spring for over 100 years,
this community has _ bid 
good-bye to a group of 
young men homeward bound,
and each fall it has opened its doors and its hospitality
to a new group coming in. |

Throughout these many decades it is an entirely
 reasonable supposition that the community of Lexing
ton has contributed something to, meant something to 
and endeared itself to a great number of young men,
many of whom have now passed on as have their local
 acquaintences of years ago. This was perhaps es-
pecially true in years past when the college was smaller 
and the majority of the students boarded among its 
residents, but it is true also today. There were then 
fewer dormitories and no fraternity houses and less
 communications with the outside world, and the stu-
dent really lived nine months of the year among the
 people of Lexington. Paradise, Cat Tail and
 Purgatory had their inmates on the campus, but 
many made their homes and boarded at Waddells 
Castle, Mrs. John Andersons, Tutwilers, Dr. Gra-
hams, Northerns, Lindsay hotel and the Holy 
League Boarding House. This is looking backward
s long time, and these havens, so well remembered by
 some, are all gone.

 While all of these are no more, graduates old and 
young like to come back to Lexington not only to
 Washington and Lee but to renew old friendships 
among the townspeople. Although Lexingtons growt h
is not so rapid as to make it appear new or strange to
 returning alumni, its growth is steadily along with 
other sections of the Valley of Virginia, and there 
have been a number of steps forward which would in-
terest alumni. The towns civic improvements are 
advanced for a town of 3500 permanent inhabitants. 
With all paved streets, splendid sanitary conditions, a
mountain water supply of freestone water and ex-
cellent lighting system, it is attracting home seekers.
 During the past year, $1,000,000 worth of local con-
tracts have been completed. These included the new
 Robert E. Lee hotel, new Harrington Waddell high
school building and colored school, substantial addi-
tions to the Rockbridge National Bank, new Methodist

 

and A. R. P. churches and a number of nice resi-
dences. The opening of a number of new streets in
 the recent past reveals its steady material growth.

To break the news to an alumnus of even fifteen
 years ago that Natural Bridge is only half an hour
 away, Staunton an hour, Roanoke an hour and a half 
and Lynchburg and Hot Springs nearly as close, is 
perhaps too great a shock. The town is the converg-
ing point of two great trans-continental highways fast
 nearing completion. There will doubtless be those who
 will recall with a glimmer of sadness the pleasures of 
an all-day trip to the Natural Bridge (which by the way 
is now resplendent at night in the display of artificial
light) behind John Sheridans horses with some fair 
Lexingtonian or visitor to make the trip seem short 
and sweet.

Following the trend of the times, the historic past of Lexington and Rockbridge county is being told the 
public, and thousands of tourists each year pour in and
through the town. There are probably many gradu-
ates of Washington and Lee who left Lexington ig-
norant of the fact that here was born Matthew Fon-
taine Maury, pathfinder of the seas, in whose memory 
a tablet has been placed in Goshen Pass; that six miles 
from Lexington General Sam Houston was born on a 
knoll now marked with a tablet; that close by Cyrus 
McCormick invented the reaper, James FE. A. Gibbs
 perfected the sewing machine, and Ephriam McDowell,
father of abdominal surgery, was born. Interesting 
relics of Lee and Jackson have been gathered at 
Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute,
which however, go practically unnoticed by the stu-
dents.

The bright stars of Lee and Jackson, whose tombs
and homes are at Lexington have cast a shadow over
 these interesting facts. True to human nature, few
 students while in college have ever visited any of these
 scenes or taken note of them. Interest in such things 
must await more mature years, but those returning to
 their alma mater would find an interesting and profit-
able week in making the beautiful drives from Lex-
ington through the county with its many historic points 
and splendid scenery. [Lexington will welcome its old

_ friends on their return.

FOURTH GENERATION ENTERS W. & L.

When Martin Burks, III, of Roanoke, registered at 
Washington and Lee this week for the fall term, the
interesting fact came to light that he is the fourth in
direct line to come tothe University. Judge Edward
C. Burks, his great-grandfather, was graduated in
1841; Judge Martin P. Burks, his grandfather, in 
1870; Mr. Martin P. Burks, Jr., his father, of Roa-
noke, in 1905.

 

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Minutes of Alumni, Inc., Meeting

JUNE 6, 1927,

Minutes of the annual meeting of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, Inc., held at Lexing-
ton in the Carnegie Library, Monday, June 6, 1927:

The meeting was called to order at 10:45 A. M. by
president FE. C. Caffrey, ’09. About fifty alumni
were present. ,

Minutes of the last annual meeting were read by
the secretary, Verbon FE. Kemp, and approved. —

Mr. John L, Campbell, ’11, chairman of the com-
mittee on the Houdon statue &f Washington reported
that after due consideration his committee had de-
cided that the acquisition of the unauthenticated
Houdon bust by the association was wunadvisable.
There was no further old business.

In the absence of the treasurer the secretary ren-
dered a detailed financial report showing a balance of
$92.23 in the treasury. )

C. §. Glasgow, resident alumni member of the
Athletic Council made a report on the Athletic Asso-
ciation. He called attention to the football record of
last fall and to the schedule to be played next fall,
told of the work done on the new athletic field and
called attention to the steel fence that had been placed

around it. He reported the agreement of the student

body to finance the erection of a steel bridge from the
gymnasium to the field.

The nominating committee, FE. P. Davis, acting
chairman, reported that D. B. Owen, 712, and Samuel
Frierson, 00, had been nominated for membership
on the board of trustees of the association to succeed

Dr. Wm. Taylor Thom, ’70, and Samuel Frierson,

‘00, whose terms had expired; that C. S. Glasgow
and FE. L. Graham, resident alumni members of the
Athletic Council and J. Shirley Riley and Samuel
Laughlin, non-resident alumni members of the Ath-
letic Council were recommended for re-election to
their respective offices. ‘The recommendations of the
committee were unanimously approved and _ their
nominees declared elected.

Your secretary reported that the association was in
a healthy condition, that the Alumni Directory had
been practically paid for, that the ALUmNr Maca-
ZINE had been most favorably received and was self-
supporting and that fifteen local associations had been
organized and were now active. He called attention
to the continued failure of the association to draw
alumni back for an annual homecoming celebration
and asked that a committee of alumni be appointed to
study the situation and to make recommendations for
its relief. In conclusion he outlined the offer by the
University of the old McLaughlin house across from
the Episcopal Church to the association for use as an

alumni building and asked for the appointment of a
committee to investigate the matter and to make rec-
ommendations.

It was moved and ordered that the president ap-
point a committee with power to act for the associa-
tion in the matter of acquirement and occupation of
the proposed Alumni Building. Mr. Hale Houston,
92, chairman; Mr. Maurice Moore, ’94; FE. P. Davis,
"15, were appointed with president E. C. Caffrey and
secretary Verbon FE.. Kemp as ex-officio members.

Rev. Dr. Emmett MacCorkle, ’77, called attention
to the organization of local associations and graciously
commended the alumni secretary for his effective
work.

Mr. Frank Gilliam was appointed to wait upon
President Henry Louis Smith and Hon. Charles J.
McDermott, speakers of the day.

Dr. Smith welcomed the returned alumni, outlined
the progress of the University during the year, called
attention to her growing needs and to the antiquated
curriculum requirements now in vogue.

President Caffrey presented Judge Charles J. Mc-
Dermott, who delivered a penetrating and moving ad-
dress on his chosen subject, “Who’s on Your Cam-
pus.” His speech was followed by a rousing and sus-
tained ovation which bore tribute to his masterly pre-
sentation. W. J. Armstrong immediately moved that
a verbatim report of the address be made a part of
the minutes of the meeting and that a copy be pub-
lished and as widely distributed as possible, and so
ordered.

There being no further business, the meeting was
adjourned.

YOUR FRIENDS

Alumni having friends who plan to visit Lexington
or young friends who plan to enter Washington and
Lee are urged to call upon Alumni Secretary, Verbon
EK. Kemp, for any attention that he can show them
while they are to be in Lexington.

Lexington is a point of historic interest for a host
of vacation auto travelers. Perhaps some of your
friends will be among our visitors. It wiil be a pleas-
ure to show them particular attention and courtesy if
you will have them call at the Alumni Building or give
them a letter to your Alumni Secretary. The Alumni
Building and the facilities of your Alumni Associa-
tion will be open to them upon a word from you.

The same is true of your younger friends who came
to Lexington as strangers to enter Washington and
Lee in the fall.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE Lg

Faculty Changes for Next Year

Changes made in the personnel of the Washing-
ton and lee faculty for next year indicate. that
some new teachers will be seen on the campts and
that several of the professors here last session will
go to other institutions. Among the new members
of the faculty for the ensuing year are the follow-
ing:

Henry V. Shelley, A:B: A.M. Ph.D., shoe will
succeed Dr. J. O. Lofberg as head of the depart-
ment of classical languages. Dr. Shelley is now
engaged in teaching at Lafayette College in Easton,
Penn.

Raymon T. Johnson, A.B., J.D., who is to  suc-
ceed Dr. Albert Levitt as -professer: ol. law. Dr.
Johnson was an assistant professor in the Wash-
ington and Lee law school in 1925-26 and has been
practicing law since that time.

Charles R. McDowell, A.B., A.M., LL.D., who
is to take Mr. Lewis Tyree’s place as professor of
law. Mr. McDowell formerly taught at Centre
College in Kentucky, but is now a practicing law-
yer.

Edwin H. Howard, B.S., who is to become as-
sistant professor of accounting, taking the place of
Mr. William E. Dunkman. Mr. Howard obtained
his B.S. in Commerce at Washington and Lee in
1925 and served as an instructor in the accounting
department in 1925-26. During the present scho-

 

 

 

Pror. Lewis Tyree, ’15—“Loss”

 

Dx. J. ©. Lorperc— Loss”

 

 

lastic year, he has been engaged in graduate work
at Columbia University.

Marvin G. Bauer, M.A., who is to become as-
sistant professor of public speaking in the English
department, takes the place of Dr. Malcolm L.
Wilder who resigned because of ill health at about
the middle of the session last year. Mr. Bauer is
now a member of the faculty at the University of
Iowa. He will be the first professor to offer in-
struction in public speaking here since the resigna-
tion of Mr. A. B. Fullbright in 1925.

Marcellus H. Stow, A.B., who will succeed Mr.
J. D. Burfoot, Jr., as assistant professor of geology,
was an instructor in geology at Cornell University.
He is completing the work for his M. A. at Cornell
this year.

B. R. Ewing, Jr., A.B., A.M., will become an in-
structor in the department of romance languages.
Although Mr. Ewing received his master’s degree
from Princeton quite recently, he has had previous
teaching experience as a_ student assistant. Mr.
Ewing will take the place of several men who are
now acting as instructors or student assistants in
French and Spanish.

Mr. Zerfoss will be succeeded as “Y” Secretary
for the coming year by Rev. C. H. Patterson, form-
erly «a Suitsen, China, “Pat”, as he will Be re-
membered by his classmates of 1915-19, received
his degree at Washington and Lee in 1919 upon
his return from the Marine Air Service in which
he served during the World War. He graduated at

 

(Continued on next page)

20 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WITH THE FACULTY

President Smith made the commencement address
at Darlington School for Boys, Rome, Georgia, on
May 27th. Dr. Smith’s youngest son, Frank, was a
student at the Georgia school last session.

Prof. Fitzgerald Flournoy delivered an address at
Sewanee, Tenn., before the Tennessee division meet-
ing of the United Daughters of the Confederacy
recently. This was one of several similar addresses
which Prof. Flournoy delivered last winter betore
Confederate organizations.

Dr. De la War B,. Easter is spending the summer
months in France.

Dr. Harry D. Campbell recently visited his son,
Edmund D. Campbell, 18, in Washington, D. C.

Dr. and Mrs. W. T. Lyle and daughter are spend-
ing the summer in Denver.

Prof. and Mrs. C. E. Williams and son are spend-
ing their vacation at Woodstock,

Registrar Earl S. Mattingly recently attended a
meeting of university registrars in Atlanta, Ga.

Dr. William M. Brown, left the latter part of June
for Washington, D. C., where he will conduct courses
in education and psychology during the summer ses-
sion of George Washington University. He is ac-
companied by his family.

Prof. Karle K. Paxton of the mathematics depart-
ment is pursuing graduate courses at Columbia Uni-
versity, preparatory to receiving the doctor of phi-
losophy degree.

JOURNALISM SCHOOL WILL MOVE

QUARTERS TO CAMPUS LOCATION

After consultation with the acting head of the
School of Journalism, Mr. Howard M. Thompson
and Prof. Roscoe B. Ellard, and in accordance witii
their desire, Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of the
University, and Mr. Paul M. Penick, superintendent
of grounds and buildings, have decided to move the
School of Journalism into the more spacious quarters
of Washington College. This change of location will
place the journalism students within one minute’s
walk of Carnegie, commerce and chemistry libraries
and in close proximity to the classrooms in history,
political science, and other subjects required of stud-
ents specializing in journalism.

“This movement,” Dr. Smith asserts, “is a distinct
promotion for the Journalism School, for it is being
transferred into broader, roomier, and more central
headquarters.” ©When the change of headquarters
takes place, the books, typewriters and other equip-
ment now in the present Journalism building will be
moved into the new location. President Smith has
expressed the hope that a special new building for the
exclusive use of the facutly and students of the School
of Journalism will be constructed in the near future.

TWO PROFESSORS APPEAR IN PLAY

Washington and Lee was represented by four
potential John Barrymores in ‘‘Fanny and the Servant
Problem,” the home talent play staged at the New
Theatre by the Lexington Woman’s Club.

Prof. Clayton Williams of the law school played the
part of Lord Bantock, at whose home in England the
scenes of the play took place. Prof. Carl Gill dis-
carded his academic degree for a medical one and was
cast in the roll of Dr. Freewater. Joe Edmondson
carried the abbreviated title of Ernest and EF, D. Fos-
sett, had the role of Mr. George Newt.

The play was a comedy, based on the perplexities of
the modern day servant problem.

 

In the booklet issued by the American Society of
Civil Engineers, recognition 1s given to Washington
and Lee University as an outcome of the recent adop-
tion of the Custis Lee Engineering Society as a stu-
dent Chapter by the American Society of Civil Engi-
neers. This classes the Civil Engineering Depart-
ment as a “recognized engineering school.”

 

A number of Lexingtonians have reported at Col-
umbia for study this summer, ‘They include Prof.
Earle K. Paxton, Prof. Frank Gilliam. Miss Ellinor
Gadsden and Miss Helen Rockwell of the W. & L.
library staff are also at Columbia doing library work.

 

 

FACULTY CHANGES
(Continued )

 

the Union Theological Seminary and entered the
Foreign Missionary Service in China, being sta-
tioned in his native province from which he came
to Washington and Lee.

Various positions have been obtained by the dif-
ferent members of the faculty who are now sever-
ing their connections with Washington and Lee.
Dr. J. O. Lofberg has resigned from his present
position in order to become the head of the depart-
ment of classical languages at Oberlin College in
Oberlin, Ohio. Mr. Lewis Tyree has accepted a
position as professor of law at the New Jersey Col-
lege of Law in Newark, N. J. Mr. J. D. Burfoot,
Jr., assistant professor of geology, and Mr. W. E.
Dunkman, instructor of accounting, are leaving in
order to carry on graduate work. Mr. Karl P.
Zerfoss, secretary of the Y. M. C. A. has received
a scholarship from Yale, where he expects to spend
the next two years working on his Ph.D. Mr. L.
M. Harrison, instructor in geology, has accepted a
position as instructor in chemistry at Woodlawn
High School in Birmingham, Ala. Mr. F. P.
Shull, instructor in the department of romance
languages, is to become instructor in French at
Emory University.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

ei

W. & L. Faculty Introductions

PRESIDENT HENRY Louris SmitH, Ph.D., LL.D.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of Washington
and Lee since 1912, is one of America’s few promi-
nent educators and administrators. He has had an
unusually wide and varied experience and has made
a notable success in every position that he has been
called upon to fill, He is a native of Greensboro, N.
C., and is a son of the Rev. Dr. J. Henry Smith, ’47,
a brilliant Presbyterian minister and pulpit orator
and native of Lexington, whose five sons constitute
a unique group of Southern leaders.

President Smith received his early elementary and
secondary school training in the Greensboro public
schools and later attended Davidson College, N. C.,
from which institution he received the degrees of
A.B. and M.A. He earned his Ph.D. degree at the
University of Virginia and received the honorary
degree of LL.D. from the University of North
Carolina.

Shortly after his graduation from college he ac-
cepted the principalship of Selma Academy, Lee
and served in that capacity from 1881 to 1886. He
was appointed to a professorship in physics at Da-
vidson College, his Alma Mater, in 1887, became
vice-president of that institution in 1898, and served
as president from 1901 to 1912. During his term
as president of Davidson College the institution grew
rapidly, the endowment was doubled, and the in-
come, buildings, equipment, and student enrollment
was trebled.

Since he assumed the presidency, Washington and
Lee also has enjoyed great prosperity. Under his
leadership the teaching force of this institution has
been doubled. Since the World War a system of re-
tiring allowances has been introduced, the income of
the university has been almost doubled, and _ the
permanent endowment fund has been increased to
nearly one and a half million dollars. It has been
found necessary to limit the student enrolment.

Dr. Smith, in addition to his work as a teacher
and administrator, is widely and favorably known
as an author, lecturer, scientist, and public speaker.
He is the author of “Your Biggest Job,” “Virginia’s
Message to Great Britain,” and “The Older Boy and
His New Day.” He has lectured extensively on
scientific, educational, and civic topics.

Few college presidents have been as deeply inter-
ested in the study, teaching, and applications of
science as has Dr. Smith. He was the first scientist
in the South to take an X-Ray photograph and the
first in the United States to utilize the newly dis-
covered Roentgen Rays in medical cases.

During the World War Dr. Smith presented to
the War College a detailed system of utilizing the

 

PRESIDENT Henry Louris Smrtu
“Fearless, Tolerant, Firm, Kind—’

 

 

north-temperate air-draft across the French-Italian
battle line to shower Germany and Austria with in-
numerable oiled-paper balloons carrying desired mes-
sages to the German people, and was awarded the
American Security League prize for this plan.

In 1921 Dr. Smith was chairman and spokesman
of the Virginia delegation which, on June 30th, in
Trafalgar Square, presented to the government and
people of Great Britain a bronze replica of the
Houdon statue of Washington, as a token of Vir-
ginia’s friendship and in celebration of a century of
unbroken peace between our country and her moth-
erland.

At Lexington, Dr. Smith occupies the former
home of General Lee. He has been called the greatest
living authority on the life and character of General
Lee and the greatest public exponent of his principles.
Like General Lee Dr. Smith is far in advance of
his time, particularly in the field of education.

Fearless, firm, conscientious, tolerant, kind and
forbearing, Dr. Smith gracefully combines the en-
ergy of a “high pressure” executive with the gra-
cious ease of family paternalism in his administra-
tion of Washington and Lee.

 

 

 

 

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Message from the President to the Alumni---by President Smith

The session of 1926-7, which closed with the
formal graduation of 134 men on June 7th, has been
marked by many evidences of growth and _ pros-
perity.

The urgent applications for admission from al-
most every state in the union far in excess of our
predetermined enrollment, the continued increase of
our teaching force, the unusual improvement of our
equipment, the exceptional health of the student
body, the receipt of many important gifts toward

equipment and endowment, the harmony and _ suc-

cess of the past year’s intra-collegiate and _ inter-
collegiate athletics, debating contests, etc., all these
justify, to those who desire to boost their beloved
university, a heartfelt pride and joyful optimism.
This self-satisfaction and self-congratulation may
be increased by the recent statistical report of the
special traveling agent of the canvass for additional
endowment and equipment, Mr. Verbon FE. Kemp.
This report reveals that the total assets of the uni-
versity have been practically doubled since 1913,
that its total invested endowment has been  in-
creased by fifty per cent, and that more money has
been collected from living donors since 1913 than
during the whole life of the university from 1749
to 1913. 3
Yet the net addition to our resources actually
paid in since 1913 by living donors is less than one
and one-quarter millions. ‘The total endowment, al-
though 50% larger than before, hardly equals fif-
teen hundred dollars per enrolled student, instead
of the accepted minimum of $5,000 per student
fixed for the “Effective College’ by the national
rating agencies. Everyone, therefore, who desires
to enable General Lee’s institution to propagate his
ideals and carry on his life-work should recognize
that grinding poverty, inadequacy of endowment and
income, inability to hold its star teachers against the
salaries offered by rival institutions, is the blighting
handicap of Washington and Lee. This financial
disability is made more severe and harmful by the
national position and national competition of this
independent institution, although palliated in the
South by the similar lack of income and the hope-

 

 

less overcrowding of the Southern state and church
institutions. |

In addition to this hampering lack of income and
largely occasioned by it are two other disabilities
which the friends of the Lee ideal should enable his
university to remove. :

The first is that the university is in sore need of
four or five new buildings which would prove won-
derful personal or family memorials in this “sec-_
ond Mt. Vernon” of the nation.

1. The first is a Lee Memorial Auditorium and
Picture Gallery.

2. The second is a fully equipped Journalism
Building for the Lee School of Journalism.

3. The third is a well-equipped and commodious
Students’ Building.

4. The fourth is an Administration Building, that
the financial, administrative, recording, and _ public-
ity agents and activities of the university may be
combined and more closely inter-related.

In addition to these two handicaps due entirely to
poverty is a third caused and retained in part by the
expense of its removal but mainly by an inherited
reverence for nineteenth century ideals which have
been outgrown and: rendered harmful by twentieth
century American conditions.

I refer to the present enforced curriculum for the
A. B. degree which sacrifices twentieth century
higher education, civic and _ political training, and
the practical needs of English-speaking American
citizenship to an ancient over-valuation of the syn-
tax of foreign languages and the mental discipline
of abstract higher mathematics: an educational ideal
which openly declares that the controlling method
and over-ruling purpose of the American under-
graduate training of today is to prepare its swarm-
ing thousands of young Americans for graduate
study and further research, not for active, intelli-
gent, far-visioned, broad-based American Citizenship.
This, in my judgment, is the underlying cause of
the ghastly waste-heap of annual “college failures”
which our college boosters proudly point to as a
proof of their “high standards.”

 

 

A REVIEW OF W. H. MASON’S (’94)
INVENTION

Under the heading of Science and Invention, the
Literary Digest of July 10th carried a complete report
of the process invented by W. H. Mason, ’94, of
Laurel, Miss., for converting scrap lumber chips, etc.,
into “Presdwood” and ‘Masonite’, a patented in-
sulating board. A review of this invention was also
published in the ALumMNi Macazine (June, 1927).

SIX JOURNALISM COURSES OFFERED

Six courses in journalism will be offered at the
Lee School of Journalism for the 1927-28 session,
according to an announcement made by Howard M.
Thompson, acting director of the school.

Professor Roscoe B. Ellard, head of the Lee
School of Journalism, is expected to return to col-
lege work in the fall, taking over his classes. He
will be assisted by Mr, Thompson,

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

NEARLY $2,000 DONATED FOR ALUMNI
BUILDING

Forty interested alumni and two generous friends
(not alumni) have contributed nearly two thousand
dollars toward a three thousand dollar fund for re-
modelling and furnishing the old McLaughlin house
as an alumnus building.

An appeal for this amount was authorized by a
special alumni committee: Prof. Hale Houston, ’92,
chairman; Maurice Moore, 96; EF. P. Davis, ’15;
FE. C. Caffrey, 09 and Verbon EF. Kemp, ’20, which
was appointed at the anual meeting of the Alumni
Association, Inc., on June 6th. After investigation
the committee recommended that an amount not ex-
ceeding $1500 be raised and expended for repair
and remodelling and not over $1500 for furnishing.
With nearly two-thirds of the required amount in
hand repair work has been started under the super-
vision of the local committee members.

Alumni interested in completing the work on the
alumni building are urged to send voluntary con-
tributions for any convenient amount. Checks
should be made payable to the Alumni Building
Fund and sent to Verbon FE. Kemp, Alumni Secre-
tary, at Lexington.

Generous gifts to this fund have been received to
date trom Col, F. 7. A. Junkin and HR. Fitz-
gerald, patrons, and from the following alumni: W.
T’. Armstrong, L. J. Boxley, Helm Bruce, A. H.
Burroughs, James R. Caskie, C. T. Chenery, Ed-
ward Colston, T. Walter Fred, S. W. Frierson,
Frank Gilliam, Wm. A. Glasgow, Jr Bo Path
rie, Waller C. Hardy, H. R. Hawthorne, John G.
Herndon, Jr., E. C. Hoge, Dr. J. Morrison Hutche-
son, Wm. A. Hyman, Wm. F. Kurtz, Samuel O.
Laughlin, Jr, J. T. Lykes, Wm. McC. Martin,
Donald W. M. MacCluer, W. A. MacCorkle, Wm.
B. McCluer, Walter A. McDonald, K. I. McKay,
Maurice Moore, Phillip P. Page, W, R. Perkins,
Dr. Mosby G. Perrow, Horace W. Phillips, Harrison
B. Smith, Pred My Vale GB. Wall, A. Fred
White, John M. Robinson, John M. Glenn, Dr. Wm.
Allan, Rayford W. Alley, S. P. Figgat, Col. Leroy
Hodges, R. R. Kane, H. H. Larimore, Claude P. Light,
J. L. Patterson, FE, C. Caffey and Verbon Kemp.

The gifts have ranged from $10 to $500.00 in amount
with many generous checks for $50.00 and $100.00.
The average gift has been between thirty and forty
dollars each. One thousand dollars more are needed!

Wm. McC. Martin, ’95, attended the 100th Anni-
versary of Lindenwood College at St. Charles, Mis-
souri, as official representative of Washington and

Lee.

ALUMNI BUILDING SECURED

The University has granted the use of the old
McLaughlin house to the Alumni Association, Inc.,
as an alumm building. This house, one of the old-
est buildings in Lexington, stands on the corner op-
posite the Episcopal Church at the campus gate. It
has also been known as the “Bocock home” and the
“old Phi Kappa Sigma House.” For the past two
years it has been occupied by the Lee Memorial
School of Journalism.

On the first floor the building affords a spacious
alumni club and lounge room, two office rooms, a
den and a wash room. The second floor contains a
family living apartment which will be rented for an
amount sufficient to cover cost of upkeep and main-
tenance.

A few interested alumni have contributed to a
fund for remodelling and furnishing the building
for alumni use. Convenient to the campus and the
athletic field the building is admirably located for
an alumni center. Your Alumni Association has
long been in need of an accessible place at which
visiting alumni could gather at Finals, for the home-
coming game or at any time during the year.

While the new arrangement does not provide
lodging accommodations it will become a center for
alumni activity. There a visiting alumnus can feel
at home, meet alumni and faculty friends, be
greeted, comfortably entertained, and view something
of the operations of the Alumni Association.

The building will be formally opened on Novem-
ber 5th, for the annual W. & L.-Virginia football
classic. On that day all visiting alumni will be en-
tertained at a buffet luncheon on the lawn in front
of the building. Due to the V. M. I.-Carolina game
which is to be played in Lexington in the morning,
the semi-annual meeting of the Alumni Association
will not be held. Alumni arriving in the morning
and departing after the game will find the alumni

building a particularly convenient headquarters for
their brief stay.

 

 

 

 

Tue A,umni BurtpiIn

 

 

 

|

“—

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE STUDENT
BODY

Four figures, all clad in yellow slickers, typical
of the rainy day garb of the average Washington
and Lee student, walked down the _ rain-drenched
street.

The figures were similar—at a glance they might
have been taken to be life-long companions. Yet
one is from China, having come thousands of miles
in quest of an education, another is from Brazil, a
third from California, and the fourth from Maine.

Of such is the Washington and Lee student body
composed. ‘The University is given the untrained
mind, and with it endeavors to construct citizens
who are mentally equipped to meet the issues of
life in an intelligent manner. ‘These untrained minds
come from various sources. ‘Thirty-three states are
represented in the student body here, as well as
Brazil, China, Italy, Mexico and Panama. Rhode
Island and Vermont are the only eastern states that
are not represented in the cosmopolitan student body
of 900 men. All the other states that are not rep-
resented here are in the large northwestern portion
of the United States.

According to members of the faculty, it is the
purpose of the school to make a student more than
a mere cog in a wheel—he must be an individual,
and his individuality must be retained. His conduct
is left to his judgment, always with the fact in
mind that a typical Washington and Lee man is a
gentleman.

And so students come from all corners of the
earth, but to remain and gather the knowledge that
they seek they must bring with them intelligent
ideals, on which may be moulded an education that
will enable them to meet the needs of life, whether
it be in China, Brazil or New York.—(From Ring-
tum Phi.)

eS

FORMER GOVERNOR NELLIE TAYLOE
ROSS VISITS LEXINGTON

Mrs. Nellie Tayloe Ross, late governor of Wyom-

ing, was recently in Lexington on her way to the,

Jefferson celebration at Monticello. She was ac-
companied by a friend, Mrs. Seddon Taliaferro.

President and Mrs. Henry Louis Smith, have more
than a friendly interest in Mrs. Taliaferro. When
Dr. Smith was rendered unconscious while on
an auto trip in the Rocky mountains near Rock
Springs, Wyoming, in the summer of 1925, the acci-
dent occurred near the home of Mr. Seddon ‘Talia-
ferro. Mr. and Mrs. Taliaferro quickly came to the
relief of the party. Under their direction Dr. Smith
was removed to a hospital for treatment and his two
sons were taken to the Taliaferro home until Dr.
Smith recovered sufficiently to travel.

AN INVITATION OF 1857

The following formal invitation to attend the Com-
mencement exercises on July 2nd, 1857, was sent to
all alumni of Washington College according to a
copy which has been sent in to Dr. Wm. | Brown’s
committee on memorabilia:

“Lexington, June Ist, 1857.
‘Dear Sir:

“The Commencement exercises of Washington
College will be celebrated on the morning of the 2nd
of July.

“The Alumni will hold their regular Annual Meet-
ing at 9 A. M., in the College Chapel.

“At 8 o'clock, P. M., a Poem will be delivered be-
fore the Literary Societies, by St. George Tucker.
Esq., of Richmond, after which our Association will
be addressed by Wm. S. H. Baylor, Esq., of Staun-
ton, the Orator selected at our last Meeting.

“At the conclusion of the Address it is deter-
mined to have a sumptuous Supper, in which, it is
desired, that all the Alumni shall participate. It is
time that the many Alumni of Washington College
should enjoy a hearty, free interchange of thought
and feeling, as Sons of a common Mother, and ev-
ery effort will be made to render our approaching
meeting memorable above all such occasions.

“Yours respectfully,
GREENLEE DaAviDsON
Wan. McLaucHiLin
Joun W. BarcLay
Wm. H. Barciay
T. Benton TAYLOR
Committee.

—_—__—.

AN ALUMNI GUARD AT LEE’S TOMB—?

In his eloquent address before the Alumni Associa-
tion Judge McDermott referred to the student move-
ment for re-establishing the custom of posting two
students each day as a guard of honor at the tomb of
General Lee in the chapel.

Just prior to Judge McDermott’s address this pro-
posal had been voted upon in a student referendum.
Although 472 votes were cast in favor of re-establish-
ing this custom the necessary two-thirds majority was
not obtained.

Realizing that further student action could not be
taken until next spring Fred W. McWane, 714, has
suggested that an alumni guard be established. He
suggests that local alumni and alumni from nearby
towns come to Lexington and stand guard for one or
two days at the chapel. He feels that alumni from
greater distances would gladly fulfill appointments for
taking their turn at this post of honor and thus com-
bine a visit to the old campus with the performance of
a privileged duty. y

What do you think of it?

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

WANTED: COX’S “CRIMINAL CASES”

Elsewhere on this page is reported the generous
gift of Mr. Herbert Fitzpatrick to the law library. He
has set a good example.

Dean Moreland is particularly anxious to secure
for the law library a set of Cox’s “Criminal Cases,”
an English publication of twenty-seven volumes. This
work is out of print and only a few sets are available.
However, he has been quoted a price of $450.00 on
one set now in the hands of Canadian publishers.

An alumnus of the law school who wishes to make
a distinctly individual gift to the department of the
University in which he received his professional train-
ing will find this an excellent opportunity. Arrange-
ments for purchasing the set can be made through
Dean W. H. Moreland or your Alumni Secretary by
writing to them at Lexington.

It has been stated that no other Southern law school
is in possession of this rare set of reference books.
The library at Tucker Hall has become one of the best
in the country through patient acquisition and wise
selection. It is particularly desirable to add Cox’s
“Crimnial Cases’ to its shelves.

 

THE ROCKEFELLER FOUNDATION AND
WASHINGTON AND LEE

Since the inception of the endowment campaign in
1919, Washington and Lee has had a standing “of-
fer” from the General Education (Rockefeller)
Board. As it stands today this “offer” is a promise
to give an equivalent of one-half of the total paid in
to the University for new endowment. Thus Wash-
ington and Lee gets fifty cents from the Board on
every new endowment dollar paid in on alumni
pledges.

The Rockefeller offer expired on January Ist, 1927,
but was generously renewed until July 1, 1928. Thus
it is up to us to pay in the full amount of our alumni
endowment pledges before that time. Delinquent
donors are being sent more pressing notices for pay-
ment as the allotted period draws to a close.

Less than a year remains. It is up to us to “pay up’
while this contingent cffer is in force. Over one thou-
sand alumni donors have paid up their generous
pledges in full. Others are liquidating their pledges
in monthly, quarterly or semi-annual instalments.
But many remain with the full pledged amount un-
paid. |

In view of the benefits which the University has al-
ready derived from the gifts to the endowment fund,
in view of her ever increasing needs and in view of
the General Education Board gift, every delinquent
donor should make the payment of his pledge before
July 1, 1928, a matter of strict concern.

MR. HERBERT FITZPATRICK, ’94, GIVES
VALUABLE LAW BOOKS

Dean W. H. Moreland, ’06, of the law school has
received a handsome edition of Halsbury’s “Laws of
England” as the gift of Mr. Herbert Fitzpatrick, ’94,
to the law school library. The law school has long
been in need of this set for reference work, but has
been unable to secure it because of the limited law
library appropriation.

When the matter was presented to Mr. Fitzpatrick
he immediately volunteered to purchase the set as his
personal contribution. It was ordered from _ pub-
lishers in Canada and imported. The set contains
twenty-seven volumes and is said to be the most com-
plete historical digest of English law.

Mr. Fitzpatrick, the donor, has a record of distin-
guished achievement. He was for a long time success-
fully engaged in the practice of law at Huntington
and Charleston, West Va. In 1922 he was elected
vice-president and general counsel for the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railroad. He had served as counsel of that
road for some time previous to his election. His of-
fices are now in Richmond, Va., where he makes his
home.

 

ATTENTION ALUMNI AUTHORS, MANU-
FACTURERS AND RETAILERS!

On the book shelves of the club room in the Alumni
Building (to be occupied this fall) we would like to
have an autographed copy of every book written by a
Washington and Lee alumnus.

In the house we would like to have a sample of any
article that is manufactured by an alumnus and can
be used in or about a house, or a sample of merchan-
dise distributed by an alumnus or his firm.

Thus the individual alumnus can help to furnish the
new club house in an individual way, can have his
business or vocation represented at the gathering
place of his former classmates and can make the
Alumni Building more interesting.

Your Alumni Secretary would like to hear from
alumni authors, artists, manufacturers, wholesalers,
retailers, etc.

 

WANTED: YOUR STATE CODE

It is the purpose of Dean Moreland to have a copy
of the code or statutes of every state in the Tucker
Hall library, At present only a few states are repre-
sented.

Therefore, this opportunity is presented for the con-
sideration of every law alumnus or for any local group
of law alumni. Communicate your intention to Dean
W. H. Moreland at Lexington. No state should be
exempt, since some of the few codes now in our pos-
session are out of date.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Letters

June 28, 1927.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

Your letter of June 18th arrived at Hot Springs
while I was absent attending the annual meeting of
the trustees at Kenyon College, Gambier, Ohio, so I
did not receive it until my return two days ago.

I think the opportunity of using the old Mc-
Laughlin house as an Alumni Building most for-
tunate. It gives me great pleasure to enclose you
my check as my contribution to the fund of $3,000
which must be raised for rehabilitation, furniture, etc.

I should like very much to know whether the
necessary amount is promptly subscribed.

With warmest regards,

Sincerely yours,
Francis T. A. JUNKIN.

eee

June 22, 1927
My dear Mr. Kemp:

Your favor of the 18th duly received, and it gives
me pleasure to enclose herewith check toward the en-
terprise that you mention.

With every good wish for your continued growth
and success, and with kindest personal regards.

Yours very truly,
H. R. Frrzcerarp

July 9, 1927
My dear Kemp:

In compliance with your suggestion, I herewith en-
close my check towards the fund for re-furnishing of
the McLaughlin Building.

I trust that you will be able to raise the necessary
amount without trouble but should you fall down,
kindly advise and I will try to assist you further.

Yours very truly,

L. J Boxtiey, ’09

July 5, 1927
Dear Verbon: .

Your letter of the 17th, which crossed mine in the
mail, came duly to hand. I have been away from the
office a good deal since that time, hence my delay in
acknowledging it.

I take great pleasure in enclosing herewith my check
for the Alumni Building Fund. If you do not get in
enough money from these calls, let me know and I’
may be able to help a little more later on.

Faithfully yours,
Rayrorp W. Au.ey, 710

Dear Kemp: June 21, 1927

The pleasure is had of acknowledging your letter of
June 20th. I remember the McLaughlin house mighty
well inasmuch as my examination for the Bar was
held within its portals by Judge McLaughlin. I think
he asked me whose son I was and if I had a diploma
from the Law School of Washington and Lee.

It would not be convenient for me now, or probably
for sixty days, to make any cash advance of any kind
on account of heavy commitments at this time, My
best wishes and deepest interest are with you, not only
in acquiring this historic old house but in establishing
a convenient headquarters for visiting alumni. Just
as soon as things work around and turn themselves
into the form of money this will be the first thing re-
membered.

With best wishes, I am

Yours sincerely,
Tuomas W. SHELTON, 793

 

3
Dear Mr. Kemp: Tuly 5S, Tae

I have your recent letter with reference to property
which has been offered for use as an Alumni Building
and, as requested, take pleasure in enclosing herewith
check as my contribution towards the cost of rehabili-
tating and furnishing the building.

With kind personal regards, I am

Faithfully yours,
G B. WALL, ’88

Dear Mr. Kemp: July 4, 1927

I have been out of town for several weeks and on
my return found your letter of the 18th awaiting me.

I am enclosing you a check as a small contribution
towards the Alumni Building Fund. I believe a com-
fortable club room where the alumni can forgather
will do more than anything else to bring the old W.
& L. men back to Lexington. The presentation of the
plan in your letter covers the subject completely, and,
I trust, will meet with a general response.

With kind regards, I am

Very truly yours,
Maurice Moors, 794

ly 6, 1927
Dear Mr. Kemp: July

In reply to your letter of June 18th, concerning the
use of the old McLaughlin house for an Alumni
Club, I take pleasure in forwarding to you a check as
my contribution to the cause.

Yours sincerely,

Wm. A. Hyman, 712

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

A Gracious Letter, Charmingly Reminiscent

1
My dear Mr. Kemp: Jeg cee

You receive many letters commending your work
on the ALUMNI MaGaziINneE, I dare say, but I doubt
that you grow weary of such approval—and so |
come to pay my tribute.

I have just received and read the June, 1927, num-
ber, and compliment you upon the pictures, paper,
type, and printed matter. Above all, the last named,
for to the man of sentiment much pleasure is af-
forded by hearing of old college friends. This
makes the publication truly valuable. Take, for
example, the letter of Mr. Robert Ewing, 68, in
this number. How it would delight all the alumni
of his period at the University, could they read his
words!

The Commencement Message from the President
is most interesting, and in the main encouraging to
those who love the Old School. It is certain that
Dr. Smith has had many discouragements, as_ has
every college president, but he has conducted the
Institution through a long period of its most notable
successes, and may well feel pride in his adminis-
tration.

In the March number of the MaGazINE, you
named George Sykes, ’78-’79, of Louisville, who
startled the Washington and Lee men of his day
by demonstrating his ability to “curve” in pitching
baseball. In the June number you write more fully
about the W. and L,.-University of Virginia game
in 1877. I was present at that notable meeting. (it
could not be called a contest), when Sykes dum-
founded the Virginia men by “skunking” them. I
remember the umpire was James Bayard, son of
Senator Thomas Bayard of Delaware. Later, his
description of the game was truly racy and graphic.
For the men on both sides, there was one very
amusing feature. It loses much in the telling. The
Washington and Lee men had brought (to carry
the impedimenta of the Club) one Solomon—a very
black, very tall and very deep-voiced Senegambian,
who, when the game ended, commenced collecting
not only the bats, bases, etc., belonging to Washing-
ton and Lee, but everything in sight—connected
with the game. This being noticed, someone
shouted, “Hey there, Solomon, those are not our
things!” Whereupon the colored gentleman from
the Valley propounded, in thunder-like tones, the
deepest ever heard in Lexington, the pertinent
query, “We won ’em, didn’t we?”

Ask Col. John Letcher or the Hon. Matthew
White Paxton, or Will McElwee if they remember
the basso of Solomon the Senegambian.

Now a word about the New York Alumni of
Washington and Lee. In such a city as this, one is

 

Dr. Wo. E. Dow, ’76, Remembers Solomon

 

 

kept pretty fully engaged — especially young men
opening their career here. You are not likely to
have frequent communications from them, but the
University has a representation of which it may
feel proud, and I can bear testimony to this be-
cause “with the acumen of years and wisdom,” I
can guage them.

Finally—let me speak of what has been a source of
satisfaction to me and to some of my old friends, in
hope that others may be stimulaied. When I have found
in the pages of the Alumni Directory the name of a
once dear comrade, not marked by a star, I have
often written, and it has given me gratification to
note the spirit evoked by such letters. It is well
worth while to re-kindle the fires of youth that
have smouldered for years. It may be asked, how
can one open the Directory pages without being
too saddened to write? I grant that to look over
the list of so many who died too young, is full of
heart-break, but it should make even stronger the
tie binding surviving friends. I leave this thought
with you for the men of the Alumni—no matter
how ancient or how young—Keep in touch with
Alma Mater and those you loved in college days,
for only too soon must you say in the pathetic
words of Charles Lamb, “Gone, all gone, the old
familiar faces.”

Truly yours,
Wm. E. Dotp, ’76.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

OPPOSE CHAPEL ADMISSION CHARGE

The Lee chapel is again the subject of controversy.
The act of the W. & L. board of trustees at their
June meeting authorizing a charge of twenty-five cents
for admission to the chapel and mausoleum has been
severely criticized by Southern newspapers, the Lynch-
burg alumni chapter and various individual alumni
and U. D. C. members.

The proposal was made by Dr. George Bolling Lee,
90, grandson of General Lee and a trustee of W. &
L,., in view of the heavy expense incurred by the Uni-
versity for repair, fireproofing and upkeep of the
chapel. Dr. Lee reasoned that admission was charged
to Mt. Vernon, Monticello and various other shrines
in this country and abroad. His proposal was more.a
logical approval of the admission charge than an ad-
vocacy of it. It passed the board of trustees by a
close vote.

Various views, all con, have been expressed edi-
torially. One significant editorial contained the sig-
nificant thought that it was a reproach, not upon the
University but upon the entire South that such an in-
stitution as Washington and Lee had to resort to such
financing perforce of poverty.

The action of the board has not been put into opera-
tion.

 

A GIFT AND A GREETING
July ‘9; 1937.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I am sending you check as a contribution to as-
sist in repairing and furnishing the Alumni Build-
ing. I hope that some time in the future, I may
have the opportunity and pleasure of paying a
visit to Lexington and renewing old Memories con-
nected with my college days at W. & L. U.

Please remember me kindly to any of my old
college associates who may still be located around
Lexington, and especially to Harry Campbell, Frank
and Bob Glasgow, Mat Paxton and Harry ‘Tucker
and my wish to them of prosperity and happiness
for many more years.

Very sincerely,
J. M. Rozitnson (1872-’76.)

 

June 22, 1927
Dear Mr. Kemp:

In response to your letter of June 20th, I am en-
closing herewith check to the order of the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni Fund.

I trust that you will be successful in raising suffi-
cient funds for the project mentioned. I also hope
that the building will prove to be of much service to
the Alumni Association.

Yours very truly,
Puitip P. Paces, ’08

FAMOUS PETS OF FAMOUS PEOPLE—
TRAVELLER

By Preston WRIGHT IN THE New York World

After the Civil War, when Gen. Robert E. Lee and
his celebrated horse, ‘Traveller, were moving with
dignity through the evening glow of a beloved and
honored retirement from public service, they are said
to have been approached by a lady who sought a
memento by plucking a hair from Traveller’s mane.

‘Madame’, Gen. Lee is reported to have said, as he
removed his hat and bowed his head, “take one of
mine.”

To impute purely ironical intent to this remark is to
misunderstand the great soldier. I prefer to believe
his sole thought was that the noble Traveller should
no more be subjected to such familiarity than himself.

After he had laid aside his uniform and gone to
Lexington, Va., to assume the Presidency of Wash-
ington College, the General wrote:

“Traveller is my only companion; I may also say,
my only pleasure. He and I, whenever practicable,
wander out in the mountains and enjoy sweet con-
fidence.”

Once when he had to be away from home, the Gen-
eral wrote to his secretary: “How is Traveller? Tell
him I miss him dreadfully, and have repented of our
separation but once—that is, the whole time since we
parted,”

Again he wrote to his daughter, Agnes: “You must
know what a comfort Traveller is to me in my re-
tirement.”’

When Gen. Lee was in his last illness, Dr. R. L.
Madison said to him: “You must make haste to get
well. Traveller has been standing in the stable so long
that he needs exercise.” But the General said noth-
ing. He merely shook his head and closed his eyes.
He knew he should never mount his favorite again.

Traveller had been born in the neighborhood of
Blue Sulphur Springs, W. Va., in April of 1857. As
a colt he won a prize at the Greenbriar fair, under the
name of Jeff Davis. Captain James W. Johnston, son
of the man who reared him, rode the young horse into
the war, but later sold him to Major Thomas L,.
Broun, Gen. Lee saw the animal first in West Vir-
ginia. He was greatly pleased with his appearance.
He was sixteen hands high, powerfully built, iron-
gray in color, with black points, and a dark mane and
tail.

When Major Broun heard that Gen. Lee liked the
horse he offered him as a gift. But the General in-
sisted that he could take the animal only through pur-
chase. The deal was put through in February 1862.
The gray’s name was changed to Traveller.

Traveller was superb under fire. Only once did he
cause his master any trouble. During the summer of
1862 Gen. Lee had dismounted and sat down on a log,

ze

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE Z?

‘Promote the Magazine,’ Says Walter Fred, ’| |

Back for Finals this year, T. Walter Fred, ’11,
threw a bouquet or two and gave some good advice.
“Every alumnus that I know is crazy about the
ALUMNI MaGaziINn_E,” he said. “Why don’t you pro-
mote it—let the alumni know about it and they will
all subscribe.”

Now Walter is an expert at promotion. He has
promoted the Davenport Hosiery Mills of which he
is president. He successfully manufactures and pro-
motes a nationally advertised product. His advice
carries the weight of experience as well as convic-
tion.

We have long wanted to “promote” the ALUMNI
MacazIne. We know that it is interesting to alumni
from the many generous expressions of commenda-
tion received. During three years of publication it
has “paid for itself,’ but we want its merit and influ-
ence to grow. ‘Therefore, its circulation must be in-
creased. Walter Fred is right.

This issue of the MaGazINE is combined with the
University Summer Bulletin and published jointly by
the University and the Alumni, Inc. Four other regu-
lar issues are published during the year, and sent to
all members of the Alumni Association, Inc., whose
dues are paid. ‘The dues are $2.50 per year or $4.00
for two years in advance.

Formerly the annual alumni membership dues
were $5.00 each and, if collected, paid the Alumni
Secretary’s salary. Now your Secretary is paid by
the University and the sum obtained from “dues’’ is
used for compilation, publication and distribution of
the ALUMNI MacazINne. So every cent paid goes
into the MAGAZINE.

Due to being a highly specialized publication with
a limited circulation, publication costs are high. For
the same reason advertising revenues are small. The
MAGAZINE is dependent upon the payment of dues
(subscription) for support. It is also dependent
upon a wide alumni circulation for its usefulness.

Washington and Lee has six thousand alumni

 

T. WALTER FRED, 711
—“An expert at promotion”

 

 

listed. Let us have the ALUMNI MaGazINeE in the
hands of one-half of this number every other month!
This issue will serve as a sample copy. Do you like
it? If so, fill in the subscription blank which is
loosely inserted in this issue and send it with your
check for $2.50 (1 year) or $4.00 (2 years) to Ver-
bon EK. Kemp, Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897, Lex-
ington, Va.

Subscribers are urged to help us carry out Walter
Fred’s advice and PROMOTE THE MAGAZINE!

 

 

with one arm through the reins. Traveller became
frightened and bolted. Gen. Lee instinctively held the
reins and both hands were so badly strained he could
not ride horseback for six weeks.

The obedience Traveller yielded to the Commander
is shown by a post-war incident. ‘The General had
escorted a young lady who had been visiting his
daughters to the canal boat landing, and while he was
taking her aboard the boat, tied Traveller to a post.
The horse evidently thinking his master had gone
home without him broke loose and started off on a trot.
“Traveller’s loose,” some one shouted to General Lee.
“Keep still, everybody,” the latter requested. Then

he gave a low, peculiar whistle. Traveller stopped and
pricked his ears. When the call was repeated, he
came trotting back, to be petted and tied again.

For the five years after the war the pair were in-
separable companions in the hours when the General
was free. But, as the autumn of 1870 progressed, the
General ceased to come to ‘Traveller’s stall. When
next the old horse and his master were together, Gen-
eral Lee was being borne to his grave.

Traveller, his saddle and accoutrements draped in
black, was led behind the dead commander by two old
soldiers.

(Reprinted by permission of Republic Syndicate)

 

 

       

THe CoLONNADE AT NEw-

coMB HALL

Tue MaIn BurLDINGs AND “OLp GEORGE”

 

ENTRANCE TO THE CAMPUS

 

 

 

 

:
= ‘- SS SEH Map oF THE CAMPUS AND VICINITY

 

aa Note: The Alumni Building Is at the Corner of Lee Ave. and Wash-
ington St.

 

 

 

SCALE OF FEET
©. _t0_ 200 000_ sup m0

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FAMILIAR SCHNEZH SS

ye ae

2

eT ye Re er ee ET weer =~ a eT 7 Pel Cee .
Fri | i 3 7 ; : 7 wt

 

 

 

 

 

P YU x4

vane
7

 

  

INTERIOR CHAPEL

RECUMBENT STATUE DorEMUS GYMNASIUM

THe CAMPUS IN WINTER

THE CARNEGIE LiprArY BUILDING

 

On Main St. LEXINGTON
“A Study in Still Life”

RANI AR SC HN eS

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE MISSISSIPPI FLOOD

2
Dear Mr. Kemp: July 14, 1927

Your letter was received only last evening, in which
you state you would like to have some news from
members of the alumni association, in the district that
suffered from the great flood.

I am acquainted with the members of the alumni
association at New Orleans, who sustained no loss,
owing to the fact that the officials of that city received
permission to cut the levee about 14 miles south, from
the State and Federal governments; after removing
all the people residing in this area, to New Orleans,
they used dynamite, which caused a crevasse or break
in the levee approximately 3,000 feet wide, and re-
lieved New Orleans, its docks, levees, etc., from fur-
ther rise of the great Mississippi river there.

I regret that I do not know members of the alumni
who live in other parts of Louisiana but I sincerely
hope that most of them were on “higher ground.”

The breaks in the Atchofalaya river—about 50
miles west—brought water within a few inches of my
lowest land, but four miles south the cane, rice, truck,

etc., were inundated and lost.

As you have read of this great disaster, it is useless
for me to write you of the thousands of refugees who
lost not only their crops but also their stock and be-
longings, in this inland sea of water, extending from
Arkansas to the Gulf of Mexico.

Secretary Hoover, who was in the flooded districts
the greater part of the time, did most heroic work, as
did Jardine, who was here also, as well as Mayor
Thompson of Chicago, the various governors, mem-
bers of the U. S. Senate and House, and hundreds of
others. ,

After spending millions of dollars derived from
heavy taxation, the various levee boards find their
coffers empty, and unable to continue their good work.

The Mississippi river drains about 31 states, and
all believe the Federal government will take entire
charge of it and its problems.

Yours truly,
GrorceE Hin, ’77

Dear Mr. Kemp: July 13th, 1927

Don’t know exactly what to tell you about the flood.
It’s somewhat like war. We all hope the nation 1s
sufficiently aroused to guarantee full responsibility in
the future. There was no loss of life in this district,
altho considerable loss of property.

Elliott Jones, as you perhaps know, is associated
with me here. We lost approximately 10% of our
crop. |
With regards,

Yours very truly,
D. W. Prpxs, Jr., 06

L. C. SPEERS, ’94, WRITES ON FLOOD
SITUATION

A valuable and penetrating survey of the conditions
now prevailing in the Mississippi delta has been con-
tributed by L. C. Speers, ’94, of the New York Times
staff and published in that metropolitan daily. Credit
has been given to Mr. Speers for his clear, dispassion-
ate insight into the actual economic effects of the flood.
Mr. Speers has spent considerable time in the flood
region studying the situation. His reports are said to
provide the most comprehensive information on the
subject yet compiled.

ey

ALUMNI NEWS

“A word of greeting to my former class-
mates, just a line or two about my work and
interests for publication in the Alumni Maga-
zine’’—this is the request contained in our
formal news blank. The Magazine is depend-
ent upon such personal news for its greatest
appeal. It is a modest request directed to
every individual alumnus. Let us hear from
you.

And speaking of modesty—we often ask
an alumnus for material to use in a “feature
article’’—‘‘a sketch of your activities since
leaving college and a photograph of yourself
for use in the Alumni Magazine. Invariably
the response is, ‘I have done nothing worth
writing up’’—a creditable modesty, but hard
on the Magazine.

Alumni want to hear about their college
friends. News and photographs of them in
the Magazine are of wide interest to every
alumnus. Therefore, please don’t hold back
when we write for this material. It is not
the purpose of the Magazine to boost or eulo-
gize, but to give a news account of the other
fellow.

PREPARING ROOM FOR MUSEUM IN
CHAPEL

Workmen have begun the transformation of most
of the basement of Lee chapel into a room to receive
relics associated with the Lee family. The change
will include a concrete floor and metal ceiling. The
outside woodwork of the chapel has also been painted.

 

Among the visitors registered at Lee chapel last
month was William Gibbs McAdoo, former secretary
of the treasury and candidate for president. He was

on his way to White Sulphur and was accompanied
by Mrs. McAdoo.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

 

 

On the Negative

(Being a pert and caustic editorial comment on a national and local situation. )

Obeying a well directed injunction we pause to
scrutinize: who (and what) is on our campus?
ee ee ee
Some nine hundred students occupy the most space
(not necessarily the most attention). ‘They are our
raw material.
- 2a 2 se ee ee
This clay is “hand picked, carefully winnowed and
selected,” we are truthfully told. Last session one
hundred thirty-seven students dropped by the way-
side ere the year had closed.

Most of the dropped were rejected by the potter.
This does not account for those who did not get
caught. They are even greater in number.
oe ne
Commercially speaking, it looks like inefficient pro-
duction; ethically, self confessed defeat of purpose.

Our campus is not alone in fostering this condition.
-. £8 ee ee |
It is a prevailing situation in American colleges:
witness authors Upton Sinclair, Palmer Gavvett,
Percy Marks and Glenn Frank—all college men.
Judging from Mr. Thackeray’s “Pendennis,” it is an
old situation. )
ee Fe kee
The prevailing wind is the line of least resistance,
but bucking the headwind does not necessarily lead
backward.
ee
On our campus is a record of progress, an inspira-
tional spirit, fairly adequate physical equipment, ex-
perienced leadership, able trusteeship.
ef ee See Oe
Also on our campus are trysting places with vaunt-
ing ambition, grindstones and _ political buttonholes.
Concretely there are polished stumbling blocks and
_ pseudo barricades.
eo ee
A few stumbling blocks maledict, discredit, back-
bite, quibble and _ heckle.
ce ee ee oe
A. few barricades point out detours, saying “Unto
me let all power be,’ or—‘“Turn backward in thy
flight.” + kee ee ee ee
On our campus is an atmosphere of leisure and
luxury—Three hours a day in class between 9 A, M.
and 2 P. M.

Translated into student living it becomes license
and extravagence.
ee

But students are required to take prescribed courses,

attend classes and to make certain grades (unless re-

instated ).
ee ee

The required courses must be taken for the re-

quired degree, will, interest, desire, need, or no.

x ek ere Ee Ue UhUmUDUmUUS

Disinterest and boredom often result.
ee
A progressive move was made over fifty years ago.
It has lasted, is now outgrown, must be succeeded.
ee
But voices from the trysiting places arise in dis-
jointed chorus: “The high schools are to blame”
— “The student mind is inadequate’’—‘‘Prohibition.”
- kK Fk oO Re Se
Back to the commonplace; education (machinery
and method), is called upon by new and different
demands.
Washington and Lee must meet these demands,
must keep the pace—if possible, set it.
- * © & ee ee ¥
Given: The definite problem, the will, machinery
and energy to solve it; it will be solved!
ok 2. ee te ee
The will and energy are not lacking, but dissipated.
ek % * eek Fe

Loyalty, codperation and unified attention are
hackneyed terms, the mere suggestion of them trite.
Yet, generally speaking, Diogenes might exhaust his
available lamp oil looking for them on our campus.
Business organization, as well as Plato, contemplates
the cobbler sticking to his last. 3
45 ke ex

Let professors teach, executives administer, stu-
dents study, and trustees go unmolested by axe grind-
ers.

Then the “system” might be changed to meet con-
ditions; the atmosphere of energy and endeavor be
created; requirements expanded; living regulations
made and enforced—might be less dropping and re-
jection.

 

 

 

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

local Alumni and Lexington

This issue of the A,uMNI MaGazIne might well
be termed the “Lexington Number.” In it will be
found an article on the town by M. W. Paxton, Jr.,
publicity director of the local Chamber of Com-
merce, an interesting survey of Rockbridge County
history by Dr. E. P. Tompkins, ’88, and some rem-
iniscences by Mr. Hunter McDonald, ’78, of Nash-
ville, Tenn.

Lexington is, and will likely remain, a small
“College town.” It has been described as ‘a most
delightful place to live.” Without manufacturers
or main line railroad transportation it has little in-
dustrial possibility. Yet its people are cosmopoli-
tan, its outlook broad, its atmosphere cultural. ‘The
cool mountain climate and restful quiet attracts
many summer visitors. The intersection of two
main highways, one north-south (the Lee Highway)
and the other east-west (the Midland Trail) makes
it a tourist center. Yet it remains a charming place
in which to live—to live in quiet peace, with the
spice of gaiety and sport furnished by the two edu-
cational institutions.

No story on Lexington of interest to alumni
would be complete without an account of local
alumni. Many students have attended Washington
and Lee from Lexington and Rockbridge County
and have gone out to attain success in other parts of
the country. Dr. Wm. Allan, ’02, Charlotte, N. C.:
Douglas S$. Anderson, 90, New Orleans, La.; Col.
W. D. A. Anderson, ’02, Ft. Humphreys, Va.; D. M.
Barclay, “99, Lynchburg, Va.; J. P. Barclay, ’07,
Minneapolis, Minn.; Dr. M. R. Barclay, ’81, Chicago,
Il.; Wm. H. Barclay, ’14, Wichita, Kan.;: E. P.
Bledsoe, ’00, Little Rock, Ark.; E. W. G. Boogher,
02, Merchantville, N. J.; M. P. Burks, Jr., 05, Roa-
noke, Va.; E. D. Campbell, ’21, Washington, D. C.:
Rev. Robt. F. Campbell, ’78, Asheville, N. C.; H. St.
G. Carmichael, 99, Kyrock, Ky.; Jack Carmichael,
"91, Hagerstown, Md.; L. Berkeley Cox, ’14, Hart-
ford, Conn.; Wm. J. Cox, ’18, Leesburg, Va.; Dr.

William FE. Dold, ’77, New York City; Robert Glas-~

gow, ‘00 and Tom Glasgow, ’15, both of Charlotte,
N. C.; W. A. Glasgow, ’86, Philadelphia, Penn.: Rev.
Sam Glasgow, ’04, Knoxville, Tenn.; Dr. J. H. Gor-
rell, ’88, Wake Forrest, N. C.; Jno. K. Graves, ’01,
New York City; Lancelot M. Harris, ’88, Charles-
ton, S. C.; L. R. Holmes, ’04, Philadelphia, Pa.; W.
W. Houston, ’96, New York City; J. L. Howe, des
"18, Shanghai, China; the Howertons—Lawrence, ’16,
Anniston, Ala., Perry, ’20, Knoxville, Tenn., Bob,
22, and Phil, ’24, both of Charlotte, N. C.; Dr. _
Morrison Hutcheson, 02, Richmond, Va.; Ewing
Humphreys, °15, Atlanta, Ga.; J. P. Irwin, ’09,
Cleveland, Ohio; Rev. L. W. Irwin, ’87, Williams-

burg, Va.; L. L. Irwin, ’89, Charlottesville, Va.:
Robert E.. Jordan, 93, New York City; Hugh Lee,
"OZ, amd Jonna Lec, 01... Piicburei, Pan... Dr Ea
ward Lyons, *15, Detroit, Mich.; R. J. McBryde, ’95,
Louisville, Ky.; Dr. C. McBryde, ’06, Richmond,
Va.; Dr. Stuart McBryde, 95, Manassas, Va.; W.
W. McBryde, “06. Washington 1 Ce W.- B.
(“Pansy”) DMeClire, “SO, Chicago, il: Walter, 77,
and Henry MacCorkle, 96, New York City; Gov. W.
A. MacCorkle: 777, Charleston, West Va.;.J, I. and
C. Mercer McCrum, ’07, Birmingham, Ala.; Dr. Al-
bert McCown, ’10, Seattle, Wash.; Robert W. Mc-
Crum, “03, Gainesville, Cal; Bishop Wm. 1. Mc
Dowell, ’02, Birmingham, Ala.; Allen McDowell, 712,
Kent, Conn.; Frank A. Nelson, ’96, Chattanooga,
‘Tenn; Dro W. Py On 01, University, Ala.- TR.
Preston, ’88, Baltimore, Md.; Rev. Harry Pratt, 93.
Columbia, $. C.; J. P. Preston, ’02, Charlotte, N. C.;
J. G. Paxton, 67, Independence, Mo.: Dr. D. A.
Penick, '89,. Nicholasville: Ky: Col. Robt, G Pax
ton, “83, Buena Vista, Va.; E. A. Quarrels, 97,
Plainfield, N. J.; Judge James Quarrels, ’89, Mil-
waukee, Wis.; Elwood H. Seal, ’14, Washington, D.
C.; Col. Arthur Shipp, 98, Columbus, Ohio; R. H.
Sellars, 76, Montclair, N. J.> SS. Shields, 705,
Farmville, Va.; D. W. Shanks, ’85, San Francisco,
Cal.; Lewis N. Shanks, ’78, Myton, Utah; A. Mc-
Dowell Smith, ’03, Bramwell, W. Va.; C. Cabell Tut-
wiler, ‘02, Conshohocken, Pa.; W. J. Turner, 03,
Rancuga, Chile; J. R. Tucker, 00, Richmond, Va.;
Rev. M. Ryerson Turnbull, ’08, Richmond, Va.; L.
B. Turnbull, ’04, Hazard, Ky.; Stockton Turnbull,
05, Arlington, N. J.; Dr. Hugh White, 92, El Paso,
Tex.; J. Walz, ’03, Louisville, Ky.; Dr. L. K. Walz,
‘93, Richmond, Va.; W. F. Walz, ’90, Lexington,
Ky.; Dr. Preston White, ’18, Charlotte, N. C De.
Reid White, Jr., ’20, Philadelphia, Pa.; R. R. Witt,
"13, San Antonio, Tex.; D. E. Witt, ’02, Lynchburg,
Va.; Hugh Witt, 08, Richmond, Va.; Rev. Raymond
Womeldorf, *17, China; Rev. C. R. Womeldorf, 791,
Houston, Tex.; Wm. E.. Waddell, 94, Covington,
Va.; J. G. Waddell, 97, Cape Charles, Va.: Frank P.
Webster, °13, San Francisco, Cal., are but a few from
a long list of distinguished Lexington alumni who
have settled elsewhere.

Among the “ninety and nine” to remain to try
their fortunes in this sheltered valley visiting alumni
lawyers will always find a common tie with Wm. A.
Anderson, “61: “Bill” Ackerly, °12; “Ben” Ains-
worth, ’11; “Daddy” Burks, ’70; John 1. Campbell,
09; Fo Dy Coe, fe. 14s Bred Deter 721- CS: Clas.
gow, “09; F. T. Glasgow, ’74; G. D. Letcher, ’88 :
D. W. McNeil, ’12; Stuart Moore, 15; Frank Moore,

 

(Continued on page 37)

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

Hunter McDonald, ‘80, on General Lee

In an article entitled “General Robert E. Lee After
Appomattox” published in the Tennessee Historical
Magazine, Mr. Hunter McDonald, ’80, of Nashville,
Tenn., has added some interesting anecdotes and remi-
niscences to the public record of General Lee.

After describing the close of the war and the flight
of his own family down the Shenandoah Valley before
the army of General Hunter to Lexington where they
found refuge, Mr. McDonald quotes from _ the
reminiscences of his mother:

“General Lee, having been invited to take the presi-
dency of Washington College, and having accepted it,
was daily expected to come to Lexington. One after-
noon Allan (her second son) came into my room in
an excited manner and announced his arrival. I went
to the window and saw riding by on his old warhorse,
Traveller, the great old soldier, the beloved of the
whole country and the admired of the world.
Slowly he passed, raising his brown slouch hat to
those on the pavement who recognized him and not
appearing conscious that he more than anybody else
was the object of attention.

‘He wore his military coat divested of all marks of
rank; even the military buttons had been removed.
He doubtless would have laid it aside altogether but
it was the only one he had and he was too poor to buy
another. The people loved and admired him more
than ever when they heard that he had refused the
gift of a fortune from some of the Southern people
who were still wealthy and requested the generous
persons who offered it to give what they could spare
to the families of the dead soldiers. Allan flew up-
stairs and made himself presentable and betook him-
self up to the hotel to be present when General Lee
dismounted. When he returned he had a lock of
horsehair in his hand which he said he had pulled out
of Traveller’s tail and announced his intention of
preserving it for his wife to wear in her breastpin.

“General Lee always took a great deal of notice of
my little boys and Nelly, and once I remember his tell-
ing me of Roy’s persistent obedience to a command of
mine in opposition to one of his. He had some fine
tomato plants, and when they were setting them out
he thought of sending me some; so when passing our
house on Traveller he stopped at the fence and cailed
to Roy who was playing in my yard, to come over to
his house and get some of them for me, ‘No,’ said
Roy, “General Lee, Mother told me not to leave the
yard till she came back.’ The General told him I
would not mind his going only that far and for such
a purpose, but he resolutely declined.”

General Lee one morning noticed a countryman un-
loading a load of cordwood, and since it was being
added to his woodpile le inquired about it. When told
that the countryman had brought it just because he

 

HuntER McDonatp
“_A Toothpick”

 

wanted General Lee to have it, the General, with the
beautiful courtesy that was his, thanked him and said:
“T would like to know the name of the person who has
brought me such an acceptable gift.” The man
gathered the reins in his hands and signalled to the
horses to start, and answered, “Never mind my name
—if I should tell it, it would be in that damned old
Lexington Gazette tomcrrow morning.”

“He often came in late in the evening to see Donald
when he was confined with his broken leg, and would
sit and talk in the twilight. Once, I remember he sat
still for sometime by the window and his face looked
so sad. He spoke of the Southern people, of their
losses, privations, and sufferings, and also of our vain
struggle. ‘I cannot sleep,’ he said, ‘for thinking »f it,
and often I feel so weighted down with sorrow that
I have to get up in the night and go out and walk till
{ thoroughly weary myself before I can sleep.’ That
was the only melancholy sentence I ever heard him ut-
ter, and the only time I ever saw that heartbroken
look on his face.” |

After describing General Lee’s death and its effect
on the people, Mr. McDonald takes up his own recol-
lections:

“When General Lee reached Lexington, I was too

z

 

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

young to appreciate the opportunities which his pres-
ence afforded to thos? who were fortunate enough to
be brought within the sphere of his influence. My
mother and the Lee family became fast friends.

“The students who came to Lexington to attend the
college were largely matured men, a considerable por-
tion after leaving the army deciding to complete their
education, which had been interrupted by the war, be-
fore taking up the work which would afford them
their livelihood in the future. Many of them wore
beards. ‘Those who had not been soldiers were dubbed
‘yearlings’. |

“Among the students from Nashville I recall the
names of Thomas Weaver, John Carter, Thomas Tom-
linson, Wm. H. Washington, and last, but by no means
least, our distinguished head of the Watkins Insti-
tute and writer of no mean ability, Judge Robert
Ewing.

“The boys in the town were known by the stu-
dents and cadets as ‘toothpicks’ and were rigidly ex-
cluded from the campus and parade ground unless
accompanied by an able protector. The penalty of
trespassing was a bath under a hydrant.

“Lexington was the mecca for distinguished men
who came, attracted principally by the fact that in
its cemetery the remains of Stonewall Jackson re-
posed, and that General Lee was a living resident.

“Among them that [ recall were Jefferson Davis,
General Joseph F. Johnston, Col. Wm. Preston
Johnston, son of General Albert Sidney Johnston
and Private Secretary to President Davis during the
war, Matthew F. Maury, Professor at the V. M. L,
Admiral Semmes of the Confederate Navy, General
Mahone, General Early and many others.

“General Lee's advice to all of his old officers and
men was always that they should submit to the au-
thority of the land, stay at home, put themselves in
position to take part in government and not be de-
terred by obstacles in their way. He deprecated all
projects of emigration to other countries or continu-

ation of warfare in any manner. ‘Toward these wise

precepts he set a conspicuous example. On June 13,
1865, he made application to be included in the am-
nesty proclamation and be allowed to become once
more a citizen of the United States. ‘The amnesty
which he sought was never granted, and he died
without having been repatriated.

“Like Joan of Arc, the character of Lee was not
fully understood until many years after his death,
owing to the implacable hatred of the enemies of the
cause which he served. He had many biographers
in the earlier days but their readers were principally
confined to the South. Among the first to call the
world’s attention to his outstanding qualities was
Prof. George Long of London, England, at one time
a professor at the University of Virginia. He placed

a memorable note on the flyleaf of his second edition
of ‘The Thoughts of the Emperor Marcus Aurelius
Antoninus,” which he had translated from the orig-
inal. He had been informed that an American pub-
lisher had pirated his first edition and dedicated it
to Emerson. A portion of the note follows:

““T have never dedicated a book to any man, and
if I dedicated this, I should choose the man whose
name seemed to me most worthy to be joined to that
of the Roman soldier and philosopher. I might dedi-
cate the book to the successful general who is now
the President of the United States (General Grant)
with the hope that his integrity and justice will re-
store peace and happiness so far as he can, to those
unhappy States which have suffered so much from
war and the unrelenting hostility of wicked men.
But as the Roman poet said, “Victrix causa Deia
placuit, sed victa catoni” (which translated is: The
cause of the victor was pleasing to the gods, but that
of the vanquished to Cato) and if I dedicated this
little book to any man, I would dedicate it to him
who led the Confederate armies against the power-
ful invader, and retired from an unequal contest de-
feated, but not dishonoured; to the noble Virginian
soldier, whose talents and virtues place him by the
side of the best and wisest man who sat on the throne
of the Imperial Caesars.’

“The next notable sign of the awakening of his
enemies was the publication by Gamaliel Bradford, a
citizen of Massachusetts, of his notable book, ‘Lee,
the American.’ But the most recent and notable ap-
preciation of the military career of Lee is the book
by Major General Sir Robert Maurice of the British
Army, entitled ‘Robert E. Lee, the Soldier.’

“A beautiful description of General Lee’s last ill-
ness and death, his funeral and final resting place,
written for the faculty of Washington College by
Colonel Wm. Preston Johnston, son of General AI-
bert Sidney Johnston, Private Secretary to President
Davis during the war and Professor of History at
Washington College, is reproduced in a book edited
by Franklin L. Riley, entitled, ‘General Robert E.
Lee After Appomattox,’ |

“General Lee died October 12, 1870. No char-
acter in history has been subjected to more search-
ing scrutiny than has that of Robert FE. Lee, his
systematic habits and records making such scrutiny
possible. But no matter how hostile the purpose or
talented the traducer who undertakes it, no Meade
Minnegarode or Rupert Hughes will ever find a
skeleton in his closet.”

Mr. McDonald is chief engineer of the N. C. &
St. L. Railway with offices at Nashville, Tenn. He
has interested himself in Civil War history and par-
ticularly in the activities of the Federal General
Hunter in and about Lexington.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

J. W. Garrow, 99

After graduating with the degree of Bachelor of
Arts in 1899, J. W. Garrow’s first business employ-
ment was in Houston, Texas, with the old firm of H.
W. Garrow and Company, Cotton Exporters, wnich
was established by his father. He became a partner
in the firm in 1914 and after his father’s death in 1916
the business was conducted by his brother, H. W.
Garrow, ’97 and himself. In 1918 Mr. Garrow and
several others bought the business of Hogg, Dickson
& Hogg, Cotton Factors, the Hoggs being sons of the
distinguished ex-Governor of Texas. The business
was re-organized under the name of Garrow, Mac-
Clain & Garrow, Mr. Garrow being elected president
of the new organization and he has remained as such
since that time.

While the cotton business has occupied most of his
time, Mr. Garrow has been actively interested in real
estate development, and with various associates he has
subdivided, improved and sold four or five residential
areas in the rapidly developing city of Houston where
he has his home. By reason of his real estate activity
he is president of The Woodleigh Company, and of
the Houston Homesite Company; vice-president of
the Home Mortgage Company, secretary-treasurer of
The John T. Brady Corporation and a member of the
Executive Committee of The American General Fire
Insurance Company.

Mr. Garrow’s activities have been confined entirely
to business, having neither sought nor held any public
office since he left college.

He writes us that he thinks back, somehow, with
more pleasure on his college honors than on those re-
ceived since leaving college. Particularly is he proud
of having been one of the founders of Ring-tum Phi—
he was its first managing editor and later business

 

J. W. Garrow, 99

“_In Cotton, Real Estate and Insurance”

 

 

manager—and of the honor of being Final Ball presi-
dent in 1899.

He was married in 1908 to Miss Etta Brady.’ In
addition to his wife and himself his family consists of
three children, two girls and a boy.

 

 

 

LOCAL ALUMNI (Continued) —

 

06: “Mat” Paxton, Jr., 18; Crim Peck, 0/7; Hon.
H. St. G. Tacker, 75, and B. 1, Valentine, ‘26, Lex-
ington alumni lawyers. Alumni practitioners in the
medical profession would find much of mutual in-
terest with Dr. James Adair, ’13; Dr. C. H. David-
son, 92; Dr. R. C. Engleman, ’16; Dr. Robert Glas-
gow, 75; Dr. F. M. Leech, ’16; Dr. J. BH. Seebert,
12: Dr. E. P. Tompkins, ’88, and Dr. Reid White,
’87. Sales costs and market prices could be discussed
with the following alumni merchants and dealers—
Malcolm Campbell, 05; Mason C. Deaver, 712; 5. M.
Dunlap, 99; Ned and Mercer Graham, ‘11 an 17:
Curtis C. Humphries, ’17 and Burton Deaver, ‘11.
The profession of journalism is represented by local
alumni B. F. Harlow, 700; M. W. Paxton, Sr., ’75;

 

 

Col. C. N. Feamster, 96, and Col. W. F. Forrester,
80.

These are only a few of the many familiar names
among Lexington alumni. Other businesses are rep-
resnted by Norman Burgess, ’11, real estate; F. D.
Coe, ’88, Leckie M. Kinnear, ’11, W. H. and H. J.
Womeldorf, 713 and ’25, farming; Eddie Davis, °15
and’ Bill Raftery, °14, coaching; Wm. L. McElwee,
’79, banker; Bruce Morrison, °17, sheriff; Robert L.
Owen, 93, town treasurer; Harrington Waddell, ’93,
superintendent of schools, and R. E. Witt, civil en-
gineer. In addition there are many alumni members
of the W. and L. faculty.

Lexington and the Lexington alumnus is ever at
home to visiting alumni, is ever responsive to the
needs of Washington and Lee, is ever prideful of the
“University” and the “Institute.”

taille

38 , THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Some Rockbridge History

(From a Talk by Dr. E. P. Tompkins, ’88, Before the
Lexington Kiwanis Club)

Rockbridge County is the only county of that name
in the United States, and perhaps in the world. Much
of its territory is embraced in Borden’s Grant. This
grant was from George II of England; it is couched
in high-sounding phraseology, it recites that the land
is to be held “not in capite or by knight’s service, but
for every fifty acres a free rent of one shilling is to
be paid yearly upon the feast of St. Michael, the arch-
angel.” ‘The oft-told story of the buffalo calf pre-
sented to Governor Gooch by Borden in return for the
grant has been largely discredited, but Mrs. Lewis’
diary says her son captured the calf and gave it to
Borden.

Augusta county, and after its division, Botetourt
county extended indefinitely west. Several years ago
in the clerk’s office in Fincastle, said to be the oldest
town west of the Blue Ridge, I saw a petition from
certain citizens of Botetourt county, asking the judge
to excuse them from jury duty, on the grounds of
their great distance from the courthouse; they lived
where Memphis, Tenn., now stands.

The county was an almost unbroken wilderness.
People made their way from point to point by trails,
and transportation, up till the time of the Revolution,
was almost entirely by pack horses.

In time came transportation by water courses. —

First by batteaux—long, narrow boats loaded and
floated down stream by the current, aided by poles, to
Richmond. The crew was unprotected from weather ;
on one end was built a “hearth’’—a large, shallow box

filled with sand, on which a fire might be built for

cooking. ‘They were sometimes poled back with a re-
turn load, but frequently abandoned after reaching
‘Richmond, the crew walking back overland. Cedar
Grove was at this time the head of navigation on
North river and was the “metropolis of Rockbridge.”
Balcony Falls was the nightmare of these boatmen be-

cause of the dangerous rapids, and many boats and—

numbers of lives were lost here. ‘There is beside the
Chesapeake and Ohio railroad track at the present
time, a marble monument erected to a negro slave who
lost his life rescuing a boat’s crew. It is surrounded
by an enclosure, and is maintained in good order by
the railway company.

Later on came the James river and Kanawha canal.
This project had its inception during the lifetime of
George Washington, who died in 1799, but the first
packet boat only reached Lexington Nov. 15, 1860.
Of course the greater portion of the canal was in use
long before this. But it was frequently badly damaged
by freshets, notably by that of 1870, and it was prac-
tically ruined by that of 1877. The boats were drawn

 

by three horses, hitched “tandem”, the driver riding
the rear horse; he carried a bugle with which to an-
nounce the approach of the boat, especially to the lock-
keepers. ‘The canal was built on one or the other side
of the river, as expediency compelled, and when the
boat must cross over the horses were taken on board
and the “sweeps” gotten out, by which it was rowed
over. This was sometimes a little dangerous, when
near a dam, and the water high, as it was at other
times when the tow-line would break, under similar
conditions. ‘Three days were consumed in a journey
to Richmond, the law forbade a speed of more than
four miles per hour, to prevent washing down the
banks. The captains were intimately known to the
traveling public, and from my earliest years the names
of Captain Wilkerson, and the two Captains Wooling
with one other whose name has slipped my memory,
were frequently mentioned in our household. One of
the captains, Wooling, I think is living now. Social
life on these boats was most enjoyable. The ladies
would sit on deck in pleasant weather and sew or
gossip, the men would occasionally jump off and walk
or run alongside “‘to stretch their legs.” For sleeping
quarters one-half of the boat was given to ladies, the
other to the men. Berths were in three tiers, folded up
by day, and suspended by leather straps when in use.
The last one of these boats was in existence to within
a few years ago, used as a domicile, just out of
Lynchburg, by a family of negroes, but finally has dis-
appeared.

The first public conveyances, overland, were the
stage coaches. A book might be written on the romance
of both stage and packet boat. ‘They were in exist-
ence for many decades, and up to within my recollec-
tion. The huge body of the vehicle, carrying nine
passengers inside, and as many more on top, was
swung on great leather straps, with a “boot” at the
back for trunks, covered and held secure by a leathern
curtain. In addition to the driver’s seat, with room
tor two passengers beside him, was another slightly
higher for three passengers, and a mattress on the roof
in good weather gave seating space for others. Many
of the drivers were “local characters,’ with a shrewd
wit, as were likewise the “wagoners’’ who drove the
teams of four or six horses, hauling the immense
freight wagons. Freight was brought up on the canal
to its terminus, eventually as far as Buchanan, then
loaded on covered wagons, and taken west into South-
west Virginia, Kentucky and Tennessee. ‘The wagons
usually traveled in groups, “fleets” they might be
called, for companionship, and in order to “double
teams” if need be, over the worst places in the roads.

The “way-bill box” of the stage coaches carried im-
portant papers, entrusted to the drivers. At the out-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

39

C. T. Chenery, ‘09

Christopher ‘T. Chenery, President of the Federal
Water Service Company, is one of those Virginians
whose “R’s” are still a source of wonder to every
telephone operator born north of the Mason and
Dixon line.

Mr. Chenery learned what he knows of engineer-
ing at Washington and Lee, and he has practiced it
on most of the frontiers of America, ranging from
Alaska to Wall Street.

In his younger days he had rare encounters with
black bears and brown bears and other denizens of
the wild lands invaded by reconnoitering railroad
engineers. More recently his adventures have been
with the even wilder inhabitants of the financial
markets.

During the war he was Major Chenery, teaching
engineers to ride horse and build pontoons when
what he wanted was to display his fighting prowess
on the French front. His hardest battle was his
attempt to learn the bugle calls. In that effort he
was ingloriously defeated.

Besides being the chief executive of a large pub-
lic utility, Mr. Chenery is the amiable parent of
three husky children. He is an admirable horse-
man and a wretched golfer, although he still thinks
he wields a wicked tennis racket.

He is very fond of hot bread, being an unrecon-
structed Southerner, but his waist line is still five
inches smaller than his chest and so the dieticians
haven’t a chance.

He lives in Pelham Manor, New York, in a Tu-
dor House and loathes antique furniture. This also
shows the effect of his college training.

A more detailed survey of Mr. Chenery’s activi-
ties shows that he received his B. S. at Washington
and Lee in 1909. Inspired by “Davy” Humphreys
of immortal fame he dared to plunge into the engi-
neering profession. The inspiration was lasting and
the daring justified.

Going west, according to the poet’s injunction, he

 

C. T. CHENERY, ’09

“__FHlad Encounters with Bears”

 

 

started as a construction engineer at Portland,
Oregon. Success brought him to important work
at Chicago. In Washington, D. C., he became Sec-
retary of the National Public Works Department ;
then the War. After eighteen months army service
he opened his office as consulting engineer in New
York. He was later elected to his present position
as President of the Federal Water Service Corpo-
ration, with head offices in New York.

 

 

 

SOME ROCKBRIDGE HISTORY
(Continued )

 

break of the war in 1860, my father was operating the
hotel. One day he found in the way-bill box a tele-
_ gram addressed to Major T. J. Jackson, it having been
sent in this way from Staunton, the nearest telegraph
office. Stonewall Jackson lived only a block away, in
his house which is now the Jackson Memorial Hos-
pital, so my father took the dispatch in person to him.

When he entered the house General Jackson, then a
major, was in the literal act of buckling on his sword
to go to Harper’s Ferry to take charge. My father,
then less than thirty years old, thinking as he used to
say, that the disturbance would be a sort of John
Brown raid, six weeks frolic sort of affair, said cheer-
fully “Major Jackson, I would like quite well to go
with you to Harper’s Ferry.” Jackson looked at nim
very gravely, as he replied: “Never fear, Mr. Tomp-
kins, you will be there—we will all be there before
this matter is ended.”

 

40 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

AN INTERESTING HISTORY

(A Review of Dr. H. M. Blain’s Book by the New
Orleans “Daily States.’’)

“A Near Century of Public Service in New Or-
leans” by Hugh Mercer Blain, 94, just from the
press, presents an interesting story of the origins and
progress of the gas, street railway and electric serv-
ices, a story, Mr, Blain says, “so interwoven with the
story of the city itself from early days that it con-
stitutes an essential part of its romantic history.”

Until 1830 the city’s transportation consisted -of
occasional omnibuses connecting outlying sections
and its street lighting came from dim kerosene lights.
James H. Caldwell, actor, having successfully il-
lumined his American theater in Camp Street with
gas, it occurred to him to seek governmental author-
ity for the establishment of a gas plant for street and
house lighting. In 1834 the first gas lights appeared.
In 1833 the New Orleans and Carrollton Railroad
started its first cars drawn by dummies.

Gas historians credit New Orleans with being the
fourth city in the United States to introduce gas for
street lighting. Baltimore introduced it in 1816 and
New York and Boston some time later.

Until the 90’s the humble mule supplied the motive
power of our city transportation lines. With the ad-
vent of electricity experiments with storage batteries
were made but did not prove satisfactory. Then the
city turned to the trolley. On February 1, 1893, the
first electric cars were run on the New Orleans and
Carrollton line, creating, of course, a wild sensation.
By 1897 the mules had disappeared and electrification
became compete.

The first electric light display in New Orleans was
on top of the old Shot Tower, located near the pres-
ent States building. It showed Orleanians the possi-
bilities of the new lights and stimulated the desire
for development. It was not long after that, but
only after a battle with the gas company, that New
Orleans turned to electric lighting in streets, com-
mercial houses and residences.

From these early beginnings in gas lighting, trans-
portation and electricity the present Public Service
Corporation, the city’s largest corporation, with a
capitalization of more than $60,000,000 was evolved.

We have given here only some of the high lights
of Mr. Blain’s interesting historical volume. It is
well worth reading. Moreover it is well worth pre-
serving in both home and public libraries as an 1n-
valuable work of reference.

Wilfred P. Irwin, 06, formerly of Lexington, died
on May 16, in Williamantic, Connecticut, as a result
of bullet wounds received the day previous.

THE SAVANNAH NEWS ON MR. TUCKER’S
ADDRESS TO GEORGIA BAR
| ASSOCIATION

The Savannah Morning News of June 3rd, in pub-
lishing Hon. Harry St. G. Tucker’s address to the
Georgia Bar Association on the general welfare
clause at Savannah early last month intertwined with
the reports some pleasing notes about Mr. Tucker,
which are published below:

“The principal address of the 1927 meeting of the
Georgia Bar Association was delivered yesterday at
Tybee by Hon. Harry St. George Tucker of Virginia,
one of the most scholarly members of the Virginia
delegation in the congress, distinguished for his legal
attainments, prominent in the councils of the Ameri-
can Bar Association, and nationally known for the
persuasive powers of his discourses.”

“His address to the Georgia Bar Association dwelt
upon the general welfare clause of the federal consti-
tution, particularly appertaining to Justice Story’s
position. It was a carefully thought out and prepared
paper, exhaustive in its treatment, replete with sound
argument, convincing in its conclusions. The address
is too lengthy to print in full, and while absorbing the
attention of the members of the Georgia bar, it is per-
missible to print only some abstracts from it. These,
to the lawyer, may not be the most vital portions of
the able address, but to the layman and lawyer alike
the passages selected appeal to the imagination, even
though the date of their delivery be far distant from
the actual events described by Mr. Tucker.” |

“Beginning with the program as unfolded yester-
day, Harry St. G. Tucker, scheduled to make the an-
nual address, began his paper upon constitutional law
promptly at 11 o'clock, being briefly introduced by
President Grice. The address was _ profoundly
learned, indicating careful preparation and_ the
speaker was accorded the closest attention throughout
the two hours he consumed. ‘The pavilion resembled
more of a classroom than a convention, in that a huge
blackboard upon which the speaker chalked the more
important divisions of his subject was frequently
used, constantly suggestive of a university lecture.”

“The Virginian is easily one of the most distin-
guished authorities on constitutional law in the United
States. According to Congressman Edwards, a place
was made for him on the judiciary committee, al-
though the quota had been filled. He is the author of
various constitutional treatises, was dean of the law
department of Washington and Lee University and is
a former president, as is Judge Meldrim, of the
American Bar Association. His address yesterday
according to trained legal minds, was a classic of its

kind.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

41

 

Top row: W. H. Mason, J. P. Micuier, Hawey Liste (Mer.), J. J. Opertin, A. W. Wess, H. 8. Dixon
Middle row: 1. Wrruerspoon, J. S. McCyiurr, R. T. Surenps, Dave Barciay (Capt.), A. G. SNYDER
Bottom row: G. W. Mute, R. G. Campseut, S. E. Airorp, B. H. Burr

 

 

Football Thirty Years Ago--- The Team of °97

The big Blue Team of thirty years ago took their col-
ors seriously, in stripes. Their jersies looked like an army
tank after the camouflage artist got through with it. But
they evidently played football with the powerful drive of
that modern fighting machine. Abundant hair parted in
line with the nose cushioned a battering ram.

There was no coach nor trainer, no stadium nor mod-
ern gymnasium at Washington and Lee in ’97. The first
regular college eleven had appeared here in 1887. The in-
fluence of Walter Camp on the Rugby game as then
played began to be felt in the early 90’s. By ’97 football
was a popular sport, though it was a game of the survival
of the fittest.

The team manager had a job on his hands. Money for
uniforms, travelling expenses and playing equipment had
to be raised mostly by popular subscription. Often the
players had to make up the balance.

Four intercollegiate games were played by the team of
‘97, The Generals emerged victorious in three of the four
encounters, piling up a total of 64 points for the year to
16 points scored by their opponents. A trip to Lexington,
Ky., was taken to meet Central University (now Centre
College), result was W. & L 22, Central 0. On the re-
turn trip the team met the University of West Virginia,
at Charleston, West Va., and were defeated 14 to 0.

The remaining games were played at home against Co-
lumbian and Alleghany Colleges. ‘The scores were 12 to

2 and 30 to 0, respectively, in favor of the Blue and
White.

Halley Lysle managed the team of ’97. We last heard
of him at Versailles, Ky., but he is now “unlocated’” on
our files. “Dave” Barclay, right tackle, was captain, coach
and trainer combined. He is now vice-president of the
Title and Bond Corporation of Lynchburg, Va.; J. S. Mc-
Cluer, left guard, is a successful lawyer at Parkersburg,
West Va.; J. J. Oberlin, left tackle, is principal examiner
in the U. S. Patent Office at Washington, D. C.; J. P.
Michler, left end, is unlocated; Borden Burr is a promi-
nent lawyer in Birmingham, Ala.; Wallace Muir, half
back, is District Attorney at Louisville, Ky.; “Ran”
Shields, right end, is president of the Shantung Christian
University, Tsinan, Shantung, China; A. G. Snyder, cen-
ter, is American Consul-General at Christiana, Norway;

Smith Alford, half-back, is a contractor at Flushing, Long

Island; and “Gran” Campbell, full-back, is professor of
Political Science at Washington and Lee. Among the
substitutes were H. L. Dixon, unlocated; W. McBrayer
Moore, now a prosperous farmer at Danville, Ky.; and N.
S. Fitzhugh, now a public accountant at Charleston, West
Virginia.

Death has taken its toll from the group pictured above.
“Tister’ Witherspoon, Jr., died in 99; A. W. Webb, right
guard, who became a successful lawyer at Dallas, Texas,
has passed on; and C. R. Robinson and J. M. Mason, sub-
stitutes, are dead.

 

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ROBERT McELWEE, LUMBERMAN AND
BANKER, DEAD

Robert H. McElwee, a director of the Continental
and Commercial National Bank and for years identi-
fied with lumber interests, died June 26th at his home
in Lake Forest, Chicago, following a lingering illness
of heart disease. He was 69 years of age.

A short time before his death Mr. McElwee gave
a loan fund to Washington and Lee University,
amounting to $67,500.

Mr. McElwee was born in tien He has
since 18/5 been identified with Chicago banking and
business, beginning his career with the banking house
of Hunt & Co. and later being clerk in the Merchants’
National Bank. He was president of the Mehominee
River Lumber company and treasurer of the Spauld-
ing Lumber Co.

He leaves surviving him his widow, a brother, Mr.
Wm. M. McElwee, ’78, of Lexington, and two sisters.

 

GENERAL EDWARD W. NICHOLS, SUPER-
INTENDENT EMERITUS OF THE VIR-
GINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE, DIES

General Edward W. Nichols, superintendent emeritus
of the Virginia Military Institute, and an active mem-
ber of the faculty as professor of higher mathematics,
died Friday night, July 1st, in Jackson Memorial Hos-
pital, Lexington.

The end of this distinguished citizen of Virginia,
and honored and beloved resident of the community,
came with tragic suddenness. It was the result of a
blow on the head inflicted by a stone from a_ blast
along Woods creek, something over 200 yards below
General Nichols’ lawn, where he was seated under a
tree. The stone apparently was driven over the
wooded hillside back of General Nichols’ quarters,
crashing against the side of his residence and dividing,
a smaller part of it striking the head of the former
superintendent. The stone is estimated to have been
about 3 inches in diameter.

General Nichols, stunned and unconscious from the
blow was rushed to the hospital where it was found
that his skull was fractured and he was suffering from
hemorrhage of the brain. An operation performed
failed to give any relief and within a few hours he
had passed away.

 

REARDON, 1928 CAPTAIN OF TRACK
TEAM

William R. Reardon, high hurdler de luxe of the
Generals’ track team, was elected captain of the 1928
combine at a meeting of the monogram men. Reardon,
who is from Jacksonburg, West Va., succeeded Cap-
tain Davis of the 1926 team as the local mainstay in
the 120-yard high hurdles event last year.

MARRIAGES

Matthew G. Henderson, ’21, was married on June
llth to Miss Sallie Rawlings of Norfolk, Va. :

Dr. Houston St. Clair, ’22, was married on July
Ist to Miss Janet Hardie of Wilmington, Deleware.
Dr. and Mrs. St. Clair will make their home at 1910
Ringold Place, Philadelphia, after October 1st.

William A, McRitchie, ’25, married Miss Emma
A. Popham of Miami Beach, Florida, on May 28th.

L,. Vaughan Grady, a graduate of the class of 1917,
was tnarried on June 9th to Miss Virginia Whitmore
of Lexington. The bride and groom left immediately
after the ceremony for an automobile trip to Aue
home in Jonesboro, Ark. |

Dr. William G. Bean, of the history department,
was married on May 28th to Miss Lucy Burns Mar-.
steller of Pittsburgh. They will make their home in
Lexington after September Ist.

 

RICHMOND ALUMNI MEETING

The Washington and Lee Club of the City of
Richmond, Va., met in quarterly session on June
28th at the University Club. The president, C. H.
Morrissett, presided. Supper was served and de-
lightful music furnished. ‘The president delivered
what he called his inaugural address, after which
every member present spoke a few words of enthu-
siasm. |

The membership of the club now number forty-
six. It is expected that by September the member-
ship will be greatly increased. Among the existing
membership are some of the most distinguished
citizens of Richmond. ‘The names on the honor
roll are as follows:

Anderson, Henry W., ’98; Antrim, Charles B.,
77; Beveridge, Stephen T., ’76; Beverly, W. W.,
‘10; Caldwell, L. C., ’09; Cole, Robert W., ’20;
Davis, James T., “24; Davis, Dr. T. Dewey, ’I7;
Finlayson, Henry L,., ’11; Forrer, John Lo
Fowlkes, Dr. Richard W., ’15; Fulton, Minetree i.

O01; Goode, Kennety A., ’25; Harris, A. M., 712:

Harrison, Fred N., ’06; Harris, D. B., ’16; Harri-
son, John L,., 16; Haw, George E., ’04; Hodges,
Col. LeRoy, ’10; Hooker, Henry L,, 09; Houser,
Dr. A. A., 07; Hutcheson, Dr. J. Morrison, ’02:
Hutcheson, Robert M., ’20; Jewett, Carleton E.,
"21; Leake, David H., 94; Liebert, H. S., ’23; Mor-
rissett, C. H., ’14; Phillips, Chas. H., ’22: Price,
James H., ’09; Richardson, F. B., ’11; Shepherd,
Dro W. oA, OF; Siitey, lacy L., “167 Simpson, De

R. L., ’92; Stern, Col. Jo Lane, ’70; Stoneburner,
Dr. L. T.,.’07; Stumpf, Otto M., 718; Tucker, John
R., ’00; Vertner, T. K., 04; Wall, Garrett B., ’88:
Wash, Dr. Atwood M., ’15; Wickham, H. T., ’68;
Williams, Wm. Albert, ’22; Williams, James N.,
"26; Wilson, Wm. Owen, ’04; Wiltshire, Matt, ’22
and Younge, Samuel H., ’68.

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

Letters of Kiffin Rockwell, ‘1 1 (Conclusion)

Dear Paul: Jan. 11, 1915.

Haven’t heard from you for a long while; will not
mail this letter tomorrow, in hopes of having your
address. If I don’t hear, will send this, and forward
other mail. Have been unable to write myself, ow-
ing to what I have been going through. There were
six days and five nights that I practically didn’t
sleep. Four days and nights of it was on petit poste
at different sides of the town that our first trenches
faced. The first night, I was on guard at a wall sur-
rounding a chateau. We were right on the German
trenches, and they were higher than we were, so had
the advantage. At about ten-thirty o’clock, I was
watching at a place along the wall where a shell had
blown a hole through it. There was a door propped
up by a ladder against it, leaving a small opening at
the side out of which I watched, once in a _ while
crawling up the ladder to look over. The petit poste
was about fifty yards along the wall from me, on
the other side it was about two hundred yards to
the next sentinel. Seeger was the communication
sentinel. It was a case of three men watching a po-
sition, where there should have been twenty.

About ten-thirty, Seeger had just come up to me,
when something fell at my feet and sputtered a little,
then went out. I picked it up. It was a hand gre-
nade. Seeger ran for Corporal Wiedeman; as they

came rushing back up, Weideman yelled, “Garde a ,

vous, Rockwell,’ and I heard something fall beside
me. I jumped over the ladder towards the Corpo-
ral. As I reached his side, the grenade exploded.
We both yelled, “Aux arms.” At the same time the
door came in, and we caught the flash of rifle fire.
Seeger had jumped to the woods. Weideman and I
were exposed and taken by surprise. We jumped
towards cover, went about ten feet, and I saw the
rifles flash again. I dropped to the ground; as I did
so, Weideman fell beside me, and I knew by his fall
that he was dead. I arose crouching and ran, three
bullets whizzing by me before I reached the woods.
When all this happened the five fellows at the poste
jumped up on a platform by the wall. The Ger-
mans at the doorway, the Germans in the trenches
and other Germans who had slipped over the wall at
some unprotected point all opened fire on them. A
bullet clipped “Cap’s’” ear, another went between
Zinn’s fingers, skinning each of them, another shat-
tered Buchanan’s rifle. They all fell off the plat-
form and lay flat in the mud afraid to fire for fear
of hitting some of us.

I lay in the woods, covering the path to the ove,
but afraid to move or be seen. My rifle had jammed,
and I could not fire.

While we were in this position

the disgraceful thing to the Ninth Squad happened;
without our firing a shot the Germans passed through
the doorway, knocked the top of Weideman’s head
off with the butt of a rifle, took his gun, coat and
equipment, and all got away.

Soon, Teresien came running through the Wands
with two men. Seeger had joined me, and we halted
them; then we five advanced to the doorway and
closed it up. The rest of that night and the next
three days and nights I spent on guard, and so did
everyone except the ones out prowling in search of
Germans. The whole town was demolished; every-
where were barricades and dead bodies. It was a
hell of a time, and everyone’s nerves were shattered
when we came back here for a rest. I would like to

write you a good description of it all but am not in

condition to do so.
morrow night.

Probably go back some place to-

Love,
Kiffin.

January 15, 1915.
Dear Paul:

Haven't heard from you for a long while but hope
you are in Paris. Just got back from eight days in
the place where Weideman was killed. We were
not allowed to send any mail and they are putting a
strong censorship on all our letters; have threatened
to cut of all our correspondence if we are not care-
ful about what we write. Have written you all
along, and forwarded a lot of mail. I have not re-
ceived any packages, except the ones sent around
Xmas for the Am. Vol., therefore have been short
this month. We have had little chance to spend
money. The English leave to-morrow, but I will
not go with them; will stick it out in the Legion.

Love,
Kiffin.

—_________

DO IT NOW!

We often have an alumnus tell us that he has long
intended to send in his subscription to the ALUMNI
MaGaZINnE but kept forgetting to do it—“you know
how those things are!” From the many such state-
ments we realize that we have a large number of sub-
scribers in spirit, tho not in fact; but these spiritual
subscribers do not receive their Macazinr. We are
confident that you will enjoy the Macazine more if
you receive your copy regularly, so do it now—send
your subscription with your check for $2.50 for one
year or $4.00 for two years to the Alumni Secretary,
Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

 

44 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Early History of Washington College (Continued)

(From the record by Rev. Henry Ruffner, B.D., L.L.D.,
Volume I, Washington and Lee Historical Papers.)

CHAPTER IV.

The first meeting of the trustees, under the charter,
was held on the 30th of January, 1783. Seven members
would constitute a quorum for business. Eleven were
present at this meeting. So full an attendance indicates
considerable interest in the members for the revival of
the academy.

Of the trustees formerly appointed by the Presbytery,
a quorum could never be gotten together. Allowance
must be made, however, for the fact that the new trus-
tees had corporate powers and the complete control of
the academy; but the first board acted only as agents of
the Presbytery, and had not the power of appointing
teachers.

By the act of incorporation, the Presbytery lost their
control over the academy which they had founded. After
the first year or two, they appear to have exercised little
or no care over it. During the three following years of
suspension they made no effort to revive it, because the
times were evil, and also, we presume, because the
clergy as well as the laity had, amidst the turmoils of
war, almost forgotten the institutions of peace. Pastors,
churches, and individuals seem to have become alike in-
different to the fate of the school; and it was only
through the persevering attention and efforts of a few
families of Timber Ridge that it had not perished almost
immediately after its birth. In fact, religion and morals
had sadly declined during the struggle for independence.
To this we must ascribe the indifference with which the
Presbytery and the churches gave up the control and the
property of their academy to an independent board. The
act of incorporation transferred the lands, buildings, l1-
brary, and apparatus—worth at least $2,000—to the new
board.

When this board met, as before mentioned, their first
act was to adopt a system of rules for themselves and
for the academy.

Of the four rules of order which they adopted for
themselves the only one which differs from the common

custom of such bodies is, that their meetings were to be

always opened and closed with prayer.

The rules adopted for the government of the students were
very similar to those of common schools. Few others
could be necessary while the students boarded and
lodged in private houses, in the neighborhood, and dur-
ing the business of the day all met in the single room of
the little house in which the school was first kept on its
new site.

In the morning the school was opened with prayer at
eight or nine o’clock, after which every student was to
apply himself silently to his task, and never to go out
without permission until dismissed with- prayer in the
evening. Before dismission two students in turn were
to declaim. A monitor was appointed weekly, to note
down and report all violations of the rules. This moni-
torial office was continued until the year 1837, when it
was abolished, because it had graduaily and long before
degenerated into a mere calling of the roll, with defective
returns of the absentees. Students in public schools have
for many years been resisting all efforts on the part of
their teachers to make use of their agency and informa-

tion in any way to detect offences against the rules.
Now it is an established principle of honor among them, .
that instead of informing upon one another, they shall
use every exertion to screen the disorderly among them
from detection and punishment. Thieves and banditti act
upon the same principle; but we presume that the stu-
dents of this age of improvement did not learn it of
them. :

Two other of these academical laws have become anti-
quated, namely: that which required the students “to
rise and make a decent bow when the rector, tutor, or
any gentlemen should come in or go out,” and_ that
which forbade the students to call each other by nick-
names.

Such formal marks of respect for their teachers and
for one another, would appear very degrading and ab-
surd to a young gentleman of 14 years or upwards in
this refined age. Some of them will respond to a “de-

“cent bow” from their teachers; but many will not bow

in advance, nor will they bow by rule or on compulsion.

We suspect that the rule against nicknames was not
well observed, even in the early days of Liberty Hall.
The enactment of the rule proves the existence of the
immemorial custom of nicknaming among the boys of
Rockbridge 62 years ago. Boys are exceedingly tena-
cious of boyish customs, and this one of nicknaming has
been a second nature to them, because it springs from
their first nature. The love of distinction and superior-
ity is inherent in man. The imposition of a nickname in
token of derision gratifies this feeling. He that can de-
ride another thinks himself so far his superior. Christian
benevolence and gentlemanly politeness repudiate such an
unbecoming affectation of superiority. But what is a
poor boy to do who has neither the one nor the other,
nor yet any other quality that gives him a real superior-
ity over his fellows? He must resort to nicknames. And
above all how is he to indemnify himself for being sub-
ject to the instruction and government of his teachers?
Must he submit unavenged to such a mortifying state of
inferiority? He can not. He may indeed do himself
great credit by a cheerful submission to proper authority
and by manifesting a desire for good instruction. But
that is not the point; the sense of inferiority in many
boys disdains such consolation. What are the remedies:
Nicknames and dirty mischievous pranks. Among dis-
creet people such things are considered degrading to the
author. But among boys who have not arrived at discre-
tion, among low-bred men, who never will arrive at it,
they are deemed evidences of superior genius. But there .
are some young gentlemen whose natural good temper
or excellent home education dispose them to abstain from
all such ebullitions of boyish pride and resentment.

Not long after the school was opened on its new site,
the little house in which it was kept was destroyed by
fire, kindled, as circumstances led many to suspect, by
incendiary.

The people of Lexington now made an attempt to get
the academy located in or by the village. Its new site
was three-fourths of a mile distant. Some conveniences
could be obtained by the removal, yet the trustees wisely
resolved to retain its beautiful and retired situation. The
board took immediate measures to erect a new and bet-
ter building. At first they resolved that it should be

 

(Continued on page 46)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

Judge Samuel J. Graham, ’81, accompanied by Mrs.
Graham were recent visitors to Lexington.

George K. McLendon, ’86, represented Washing-
ton and Lee University at the exercises on May 31st
and June Ist, celebrating Dr. $. P. Brooks,’ of Bay-
lor University, twenty-five years service to that in-
stitution. Mr. McLendon is with the McLendon
Hardware Company of Waco, ‘Texas.

Dr. Reid White, ’8/7, accompanied by Mrs. White,
sailed for England in June, and will be absent from
their home until about August 20th. Most of their
stay abroad will be spent in Great Britain.

The supreme court of Virginia, sitting at Wythe-
ville, named Judge Henry W. Holt, ’88, of the eight-
eenth judicial circuit, a member of the special court
of appeals authorized at the recent session of the
legislature.

Hon. Frank Nighswonger, ’88, is Mayor of the
city of Wichita, Kansas.

Dr. Harty. W. Pratt, 93, of the: faculty of the
Presbyterian Woman’s College, of Columbia, S. C.,
was a visitor to Lexington recently. He was on his
way North, expecting to enter Columbia University
for special study this summer. ,

Prof. William B. Morrison, ’97, of the history de-
partment at the Teachers’ College at Durant, Okla.,
recently contributed a most interesting story relative
to General Sam Dale, a hero of the frontier. Prof.
Morrison has made a special study of the early de-
velopment of the great Southwest.

Major W. D. A. Anderson, ’00, U. 5S. engineers,
was grand marshal at the parade at the reunion of
the Grand Camp of Viginia Confederates held re-
cently in Alexandria, Va.

Samuel W. Frierson, ’00, of Florence, Ala., was
the guest of Col. Charles W. Watts on the Institute

Hill during the W. & L. and V. M. I. Commence-

ments.

Dr. S. W. Schaefer, ’04, of Colorado Springs,
Colo., writes us: “Things going ahead as usual—in-
ternal medicine and pulmonary tuberculosis my spe-
cialities—doing some Boy Scout work on the side be-
ing president of the Pikes Peak council, B. S. A.,
this year. How about a twenty-fifth reunion for the
class of 1904!”

Capt. William W. Ackerly, °12, has resigned his
position as judge advocate of the Virginia depart-
ment, American Legion, a position that he held for
three terms. In accepting his withdrawal with re-
gret, the department notified him that he will receive
a certificate of meritorious service.

45

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

Uncle Dan’s Old Virginia
Hickory Smoked

Hams
Cured by Old Colonial Recipe

Shipped All Over the World

Gvery Ham Guaranteed to be Satisfactory

BOOKING ORDERS NOW FOR FALL AND WINTER DELIVERY

DAN B. OWEN, ’12,
Box A, Doylesville, Va.

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

 

46 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

EARLY HISTORY OF WASHINGION
COLLEGE (Continued)

 

thirty feet long by twenty wide. But, comparing the cost
with their scanty funds, they were constrained to reduce
the dimensions to twenty-four feet by sixteen. There-
fore, this second temple of the muses, like the second
temple in Jerusalem, was inferior to the first, the one at
Timber Ridge.

Mention has been made of an effort, in the year 1778,
to raise funds. Subscription papers were circulated and
the presbytery were requested to send one of their mem-
bers to the north to collect donations. We have no
means of ascertaining whether or not it was by order of
presbytery that Mr. Graham, not long afterwards, made
a northern tour as far as Boston. We infer from the
records that he collected on this tour the seemingly large
sum of 776 pounds 18 shillings, besides his travelling ex-
penses. [he academy being soon afterwards suspended
this money remained in Mr. Graham’s hands as a loan
on interest. The board now appointed a committee to
settle the accounts of Mr. Graham and of Mr. Lyle, the
treasurer.

On reducing the paper currency collected by Mr. Gra-
ham, by the scale of depreciation (compared with specie)
at the date of its collection, the 776 pounds 18 shillings
shrunk to the paltry sum of 23 pounds 18 shillings, which
is less than one-thirtieth part of the nominal value.

The treasurer had also retained on loan the sum of 151
pounds 18 shillings, the unexpended proceeds, we may
presume, of the subscriptions of 1778. ‘This, being re-
duced by the scale, was found to be worth 18 pounds 9
shillings, about one-eighth of the nominal sum, indicat-
ing an earlier date of collection than Mr. Graham’s; yet
it could not have been much more than a year earlier.
The paper currency was therefore falling rapidly at this
time, and its depreciation must have produced great dis-
tress throughout the country.

There are no documents to show when or on what
terms the land and buildings at Timber Ridge were sold.
As yet the board appear to have derived little aid from
this source; and we infer from incidental notices in the
record of subsequent years, that this property did not
produce much more than 200 pounds.

The trustees resorted to a new subscription for the
academy to defray the cost of the new house. But the
people were slow to subscribe. and slow to pay their sub-
scriptions. So little was thus obtained, and so little else
was on hand, that the trustees experienced the utmost
dificulty in providing the school with any tolerable ac-
commodations. |

When the school was first opened under the charter,
Mr. Graham declined to take charge of its instruction.
The number of students was too small to remunerate
him for the labor; and their general character was too
bad to induce him to sacrifice his time, labor and com-
fort for their instruction. He chose rather to cultivate his
farm and to commit the labor and vexation of teaching
to tutors under his general superintendence.

The first tutor employed was James Priestly, a young
man whom Mr. Graham had taught gratuitously, out of
regard for his indigent circumstances and his zeal for
learning. Priestly was an indefatigable student, and be-
came afterward distinguished for classical learning and
ability as a teacher of youth. After teaching with dis-

tinction at Georgetown and Annapolis, he finally settled
at Nashville and became the first president of Cumber-
land College at that place. His eccentricities unfitted
him to be the conductor of a college, though he was an
excellent classical teacher and could manage a _ private
school.

The board of trustees employed him as tutor at the
rate of 80 pounds (specie currency) per annum. He re-
signed the tutorship in the fall of 1784. Then the board
employed Mr. Archibald Roan, perhaps a son of the pas-
tor Roan of Pennsylvania, at an assured salary of 70
pounds, with the contingent addition of 20 pounds more
if the tuition fees should be sufficient. The next spring
the board allowed him all the fees that might accrue up
to 115 pounds per annum; but he could not be induced
to continue beyond the next October. Anticipating his
resignation, the board authorized Mr, Graham to employ
another tutor at the salary first allowed to Mr. Roan.
But none could be obtained. As the salary was a good
one for a young man in those times of specie currency
and cheap living, the history of this tutorship proves
that the office was a very disagreeable one, and it must
have been such from the bad character of the students.

Since the first establishment of the academy, a num-
ber of meritorious young men had completed the course
of studies, and might now under the charter receive the
degree of Bachelor of Arts. The board therefore re-
solved, in April 1785, that they would on the _ second
Wednesday of next September hold a public commence-
ment to confer degrees upon those who had _ merited
them. On this occasion the bachelor’s degree was con-
ferred upon twelve young gentlemen, to-wit: Samuel
Blackburn, Moses Hoge, Samuel Houston, John McCue,
James Priestly, Adam Rankin, Archibald Roan, William
Willson, Samuel Carrick, William McClung, Andrew
McClure, and Terah Templin.

We may conjecture that others had completed the
course of studies in former years, but were not present
to receive the same honor,

Several of these graduates became afterwards well
known and useful men in the country.

Gen. Blackburn, of Bath County, lived to a good old
age. He was lawyer and several times a delegate to the
General Assembly of the State. He was distinguished
for his eloquence. His wit and his powers of ridicule
and sarcasm have seldom been surpassed.

The Rev. Dr. Hoge was distinguished for his learning
and his piety, and for the apostolic simplicity of his char-
acter and his preaching, which was the product of a lu-
cid understanding and the outpouring of a good heart,
and not the less persuasive because it was attended with
a natural awkwardness of gesture. He was for many
years president of Hampden-Sidney College.

The Rev. Samuel Houston was in his early manhood
taken to the wars as a drafter militiaman. In the battle
of Guilford he carefully loaded his rifle fourteen times,
and as often took deliberate aim at the enemy when he
fired. He was for many years afterwards pastor of the
Falling Spring Church, in Rockbridge.

The Rev. John McCue was pastor of the Tinkling
Spring Church in Augusta County. He was a_ good
man. When he chose—which was not often—he could
tell comic stories in a manner irresistibly ludicrous.
Once, in a fit of excitement, he suffered the irascibility
of his constitution to get the mastery, for a moment,

 

(Continued on page 48)

 

   

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 47

PERSONALS

Mr. C. Mercer McCrum, ’07, of Birmingham, Ala.,
was called to Lexington by the death of his aunt,
Mrs, J. William Gilmore. He spent several weeks
at his old home.

Mr. lL. Berkeley Cox, ’14, and wife, of Hartford,
Conn., were recent visitors at the home of General
and Mrs. Edward W. Nichols on the V. M. I. parade
ground. |

The Washington Evening Star of July Ist, stated
that Elwood H. Seal, ’14, was one of the newly ap-
pointed assistant corporation counsels in Washing-
ton, D. C, He has been assigned to duty at Police
Court, succeeding Frank Madison. Mr. Seal, ac-
companied by his wife and httle son, was a_ recent
visitor to his old home in Lexington.

Jackson R. Collins, ’*17, who has been associated
with the law firm of Miles, Edgett and Collins of
Baltimore, Md., has moved to New York City.

Dr. Glenn R. Craig, ’17, is resident gynecologist
at Johns Hopkins University.

Francis Holmes Styles, °18, has been American
concul at Durban, Natal, South Africa, since June,
1926. His little son Michael Hogan Styles, was born
February 7, 1927.

Dr. Sam A. Anderson, °19, resident pediatrician
at the childrens hospital in Philadelphia, returned to
Richmond, Va., on July 1st for private practice in
pediatrics.

Dr, Wiley D. Forbus, °19, is resident patheologist
at Johns Hopkins University.

Harry FE. Handley, 19, M. D., resigned his posi-
tion as resident surgeon in the Canal Zone, and _ be-
came an interne in pediatrics at Johns Hopkins. On
July 1st he went from there to Philadelphia where he
will be located at the University of Pennsylvania
Hospital as resident pediatrician.

D. G. Humphreys, ‘22, is interned at Bayview City
Hospital, Baltimore, Md.

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND

PRINTERS |

Office Equipment and Supplies

DALTON
ADDING MACHINES

ROYAL
TYPEWRITERS

SURBER
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

 

 

Specialists in College Pninting

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Quality

Service

Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

A8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

EARLY HISTORY OF WASHINGTON
COLLEGE (Continued)

 

over his Christian equanimity. He and a certain gentle-
man fell into a dispute which rose to a quarrel, at least
on the part of the gentleman, who used provoking lan-
guage, and at last said, “Sir, if it were not for your par-
son’s coat, I would give you a drubbing.” Mr. McCue
put his hands down before him, stooped a little, snuffed
in a way peculiar to him, and sidling up to the gentle-
man said, “Never mind the coat, sir; never mind the
coat.”

Of the other graduates on this list, Messrs. Priestly
and Willson have been previously mentioned. We have
no certain knowledge of the rest.

For want of a tutor, the academy was now put under
the immediate government and instruction of the rector,
“with full powers to enact such laws as he might find
necessary for the better regulation and morals of the
boys, and to provide tutors, as he might find convenient,”
—all subject, however, to the revision of the Board.

There were, as before and afterwards, two annual ses-
sions, which were now to terminate regularly on the
third Wednesdays of April and October. The vaca-

tions were lengthened from three weeks to a month.

As to the number of pupils who attended the acad-
emy in these times, we have no record, and can only
infer, from the amount of salary which the fees _ pro-
duced for the tutors, that the number was as often un-
der as over twenty-five. The tuition fee was still 4
pounds per annum.

Most of the students were “mere boys,’ as the trus-
tees called them, and some would appear to have come
to the academy with a very defective stock of common
school requirements, if we may judge from the fact that
the Board at this time received from a Mr. Todd a do-
nation of 10 pounds “for the purpose of providing desks
and other things necessary, to have writing taught in
the academy.”

Mr. Graham now resumed the teacher’s office, less
from choice than from the necessity of the case. Since
the latter years of the war, he had lost much of his zeal
for the liberal education of youth. A great change had
come over the youth of the country. They were no
longer the moral, unsophisticated youth of the ante-
revolutionary period in the Valley, where the fashion-
able vices of the world were scarcely known. Many of
these young men of the fields and woods had been taken
away to camps afd towns, where depraved mamiers
grew familiar to their eyes and corrupted their hearts.
They on their return home too early communicated
their acquired knowledge of evil to their young contem-
poraries. And now, when young men and boys of the
land were collected in a school of liberal education, the
rural simplicity and innocent manners of the school of
Mount Pleasant were gone; and a generation of profane

9

swearers, card-playing idlers and tippling rioters ap-

peared on the scene—fellows who scrupled not to steal
for the gratification of their appetite; and who took
credit to themselves for wit and genius when they
played the part of dirty rogues and perpetrated mali-
cious tricks in a workmanlike manner. Happily, some
young men were yet left who disdained such vile prac-
tices. But the number of those who studied amusement
and roguery was so great as to make the teacher’s office
exceedingly irksome and discouraging. Mr. Graham was
wont to say that the intellectual education of ‘such de-

 

MoNUMENT To JOHN ROBINSON
Washington and Lee Campus

 

 

praved youth was injurious to society, because increase
of knowledge with a corrupt heart only adds power to
wickedness. He was right; therefore no youth of bad
moral character should be admitted into a public school
or if through mistake admitted should be suffered to
continue in it to corrupt his associates while there, and
afterwards to become a moral pest in society.

The trustees not only attended the public examina-
tions of the students, and recorded their judgments of
them, but they reserved to themselves the power of dis-
missing students from the school. There was conse-
quently frequent occasion to call a board for the trial of
offenders. On these occasions the history of the case
was put on record—the names of the accused, the acts
and words charged, the evidence adduced, and the sen-
tence of the court. We shall here give two extracts
from the record, the first to illustrate what we have said
respecting the prevalence of evil practices among the
students in those times, and the second to show what
sort of matter was sometimes put in black and white
among the archieves of the academy.

[END]

 

 

4

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

The Alumni Association is the oldest subsidiary
organization in the history of Washington and Lee.
It was organized (as appears from the old minutes)
June 25, 1840. Meetings were held annually until

-Commencement, 1859. ‘There were no further meet-

ings until 1866, when the association was re-organ-
ized.

The activities of the “Society of the Alumni,”
“The Alumni Association” and “The Alumni, Incor-
porated” have been varied and many. We read in

the minutes of the June, 1854, meeting: “Be-

sides other important business the Executive Com-
mittee reported at their last meeting that they had
succeeded in furnishing an elegant block to the
Washington National Monument at Washington, D.
C., with the inscription ‘From the Alumni of Wash-
ington College (at Lexington, Virefhia), the Only
College Endowed by The Father of His Country’ ”’.
Later, various local alumni associations were given
the privilege of awarding scholarships to deserving
students. In 1890 a movement to build an Alumni
Hall was set on foot. Subsequently the Alumni As-
sociation undertook a nation-wide drive for a Lee
Memorial Foundation. With the birth of the
Alumni, Incorporated, which succeeded the general
Alumni Association three years later, independent
funds were secured for providing the student body
with periodic lectures on current events and world
problems; also a substantial sum was turned over to
the Treasurer from that source for the endowment.
From the chronicles of its eighty-five years of
service one soon realizes that the Alumni Associa-
tion is a vital and necessary organization, both to
Alma Mater and to the alumnus. The University
authorities and the individual alumni are waking up
to its importance. With such a manifestation of in-
terest the Association approaches new and _ greater
fields of service—(From the Alumni Directory.)

PERSONALS

Dr. Reid White, Jr., °19, of Philadelphia, spent
several days in Lexington the first part of July, on
his way to Charlotte, N. C., to visit his brother, Dr.
T. Preston White.

Mr. Lawrence P. Haynes, ’25, of the faculty of
Lawrenceville school, New Jersey, and his bride,
were recent visitors to Lexington. They also spent
a week at Natural Bridge.

Dr. and Mrs. Joseph R. Long of Boulder, Col.,
formerly of Lexington, spent several days during
the latter part of June in their old home town. Dr.
Long was formerly dean of the Washington and Lee
law school.

 

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials :

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

 

 

ALUMNI

Keep in ‘Touch with Washington and Lee
By Subscribing to

THE RING-TUM PHI
Our Semi-Weekly Newspaper
ALL THE NEWS ON THE CAMPUS

Athletics
Alumni Notes

Campus Activities
General Information

(Return enclosed subscription blank)

To F. B. Gitmore, Business Manager

I hereby subscribe to the Ring-tum Phi, 1927-28, to
be issued semi-weekly and including Finals issue.
(My check for $3.10 enclosed herewith).

 

 

50 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

READY TO SERVE YOU |
WHEN YOU COME BACK

Waffles and Sandwiches

THE SUBWAY KITCHEN, INC.
Lexington, Va.

 

 

~ McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

WHO'S ON YOUR CAMPUS (Continued)

 

seemingly safe distance from the riotous disturbances
of the busy world. ,
There is, and always has been, and ever will be, this

disturbing and criminal element, ready to influence the

mind of the uneducated by specious argument, An
endeavor will always be prevalent, to advocate prin-
ciples of government, and theories of economics, which
have no place of abode in the minds of sane, rational
and educated Americans.

Do not gain the impression that I am a pessimist.
Do not infer that I believe that our endeavor has been
in vain, but do get the impression, gentlemen, by my
allusions to the present and my comparison with the
past, that, notwithstanding that progression in which
I believe, nevertheless, we must continue our effort
and be ever prepared for the visitor to our campus,
who is the messenger of harm. Watch your own
campus, but be vigilant too as to that which is taking
place upon the great campus of this modern world.
See that no stranger, devoid of honor, no messenger
of a faith in which we do not believe, comes to visit
here. Extend your famous Southern hospitality to
the worthy world, but withhold it from the indolent
and undeserving, the hypocrite and the disturber;
make it plain by your action, your words and your
conduct that you have faith in God, faith in Washing-
ton, faith in Lee and faith in teachings and examples
of them both, that you have faith in our Constitution,

faith in our Government, and faith in America, Amer- —

icanism and in your Alma Mater.

Mrs. Eleanor Lansing Quarles, widow of Dr. James
A. Quarles for more than twenty years professor of
moral philosophy at Washington and Lee University,
died April 23rd at her home in Washington. Among
those present at the funeral was Judge James Quarles,
06, of Milwaukee a former member of the law faculty
of Washington and Lee.

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

|
q
2 |
i

eee |

 

 

 

 

 

 

eee we

WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS

 

(an ote v i ¥

> ——$— oe

   
 
    

 

aN RCTS 25
ZAIN Ee:

Amid Inspiring Scenes
Preserving the Flospitality
of the Southland NO

Toe. late Summer and early Autumn present an outdoor
appeal to be found only in this charming country of mountain
and valley, with its unrivalled rustic bridled trails, beautiful golf

courses, tennis courts, swimming pool and bath esftueehiment. 5

All clustered about the famous Gueen seen, where the atmosphere
of the old time Southern home is maintained.

Conveniently reached by sleeper from AND ITS
South and North—East and West
ONY

CREFNBRIER OF

WHITE SULPHUR SPRINGS: W:VA: COTTAGES

 

THORNTON LEWIS
President

FRED STERRY
Managing Director

GEORGE O’BRIEN
Assistant Manager

W. S. S. Warer—First THING IN THE Morninc!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

ROOSEVELT
New York, N.Y.

 

WILLARD

 

CORONADO
St. Louis, Mo.

   

TP”
OAKLAND
Oakland, Calif.

 

 

oe

oo 0 Oe

     

=== a tan —_—
NEIL HOUSE
Columbus, O.

 

 

CLAREMONT
Berkeley, Calif.

 

—S

URBANA-LINCOLN
Urbana, Ill.

      

. ewe

BANKHEAD
Birmingham, Ala.

 

SCHENLEY
Pittsburgh, Pa.

EEE
Jaaaad
23335042

           

a ia
SSS =
=

 

Re pha a ae
SS

 

MOUNT ROYAL RADISSON SENECA LACKSTONE PERE MARQUETTE
Montreal, Can. Minneapolis, Minn. Rochester, N.Y. Chicago, lll. Greensboro, N. C. Peoria, Ill.

ffer You Unusual Service—

Use Them!

Alumni from the institutions listed below are urged to
use Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels when travelling, and
when arranging for luncheons, banquets and get-togethers
of various sorts.

You will find at each Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel an
index of the resident Alumni of the participating colleges. :
Think what this means when you are in a strange city
and wish to look up a classmate or friend.

You will find at these hotels a current copy of your
Alumni publication.

You will also find a spirit of co-operation and a keen
desire to see you comfortably housed and adequately pro-
vided for. Reservations may be made from one Intercol-
legiate Alumni Hotel to another as a convenience to you.

Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels are a new and vital force
in assisting your Alumni Secretary. He urges you to sup-
port them whenever and wherever possible. He will be glad
to supply you with an introduction card to the managers
of all Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels, if you so request.

 

These Hotels

THE PARTICIPATING COLLEGES

The alumni organizations of the following colleges and universities are participants
in the Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel movement:

 

Akron Union
Alabama Columbia Maine Ohio Wesleyan Vanderbilt
Amherst Cornell BM. de, Oklahoma Vassar
Bates Cumberland Michigan State Oregon Vermont
Beloit Emory Michigan Oregon State Virginia
Brown Georgia Mills Penn State Washington and Lée
Bryn Mawr Goucher Minnesota Pennsylvania Washington State
Bucknell. Harvard Missouri Purdue Washington
California Illinois Montana Radcliffe Wellesley
Carnegie Institute Indiana Mount Holyoke Rollins Wesleyan College -
Case School Iowa State College Nebraska Rutgers Wesleyan University
Chicago James Milliken New York University Smith Western Reserve
City College Kansas North Carolina South Dakota Whitman
New York Teachers’ Coll. North Dakota Southern California Williams
Colgate Kansas Northwestern Stanford Wisconsin
Colorado Lake Erie Oberlin Stevens Institute Wooster
Schogl Mines Lehigh Occidental Texas A. and M. Worcester Poly. Inst.
Colorado. Louisiana Ohio State Texas Yale

CALIFORNIAN
Fresno, Calif.

 

SX
SAINT PAUL
St. Paul, Minn.

 

MULTNOMAH
Portland, Ore.

It

 

   

ACE PONCE DE LEON
Miami, Fla.

L
San Francisco, Calif.

 

 

FRANCIS MARION
Charleston, S. C.

 

 

 

Rey

GEORGE VANDERBILT
Asheville, N. C.

 

ST. JAMES
San Diego, Calif.

Intercollegiate

@WsEatrrre

  

WALDORF-ASTORIA

New York, N. Y.

ONONDAGA
Syracuse, N. Y.

    
  
  

 

 

o> ANGELE>

° SAN DIEGO

Every Dot Marks an Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel

Asheville, N.C., George Vanderbilt
Baltimore, Md., Southern
Berkeley, Cal., Claremont
Bethlehem, Pa., Bethlehem
Birmingham, Ala., Bankhead
Boston, Mass., Copley-Plaza
Charleston, S. C., Francis Marion
Charlotte, N. C., Charlotte
Chicago, Ill., Blackstone
Chicago, IIl., Windermere
Cincinnati, Ohio, Sinton
Columbus, Ohio, Neil House
Danville, Ill., Wolford
Detroit, Mich., Wolverine
Fresno, Cal., Californian

 
    

 

Greensboro, N.C., O’Henry

High Point, N.C., Sheraton
Kansas City, Mo., Muehlebach
Lincoln, Nebr., Lincoln

Los Angeles, Calif., Biltmore
Madison, Wis., Park

Miami, Fla., Ponce de Leon
Minneapolis, Minn., Radisson
Montreal, Canada, Mount Royal
New York, N.Y., Roosevelt

New York, N. Y., Waldorf-Astoria
Northampton, Mass., Northampton
Oakland, Cal., Oakland

Peoria, Ill., Pere Marquette

Philadelphia, Pa., Benjamin Franklin |

 

Alumni Hotels

 

  

 

  

= SSS
BILTMORE
Los Angeles, Calif.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN

WOLVERINE
Philadelphia, Pa.

Detroit, Mich.

 

COPLEY-PLAZA
Boston, Mass.

 

LINCOLN
Lincoln, Neb.

 

pitt
Bo @ GREE oe
LLE® @cnanror ye

    

 

WINDERMERE
Chicago, Ill.

Pittsburgh, Pa., Schenley
Portland, Oreg., Multnomah
Rochester, N. Y., Seneca
Sacramento, Cal., Sacramento
St. Louis, Mo., Coronado

St. Paul, Minn., Saint Paul
San Diego, Cal., St. James
San Francisco, Cal., Palace
Savannah, Ga., Savannah
Seattle, Wash., Olympic
Syracuse, N. Y., Onondaga
Toronto, Canada, King Edward
Urbana, ILL, Urbana-Lincoln
Washington, D.C., Willard
Williamsport, Pa., Lycoming

 

OLYMPIC
Seattle, Wash.

 

 

“SACRAMENTO
Sacramento, Calif.

 

 

The Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel movement is sponsored by the Alumni Secretaries ae

| ; and Editors of the participating colleges and directed by
INTERCOLLEGIATE ALUMNI EXTENSION SERVICE, 18 E. 41st St., New York, N.Y.

 

DIRECTORS

 

J. O. BAXENDALE
Alumni Secretary
University of Vermont

A. C. BUSCH
Alumni Secretary
Rutgers College

DANIEL L. GRANT
Alumni Secretary
University of N. Carolina

E. N. SULLIVAN
Alumni Secretary
Penn State College

 

   

MARION E. GRAVES
Smith Alumnae Quarterly
Smith College

R. W. HARWOOD
Harvard Alumni Bulletin
Harvard University

JOHN D. McKEE
Wooster Alumni Bulletin
Wooster College

  

1 ‘ = >
CHARLOTTE SHERAFON SINTON KING EDWARD
Charlotte, N. C. High Point, N. C. Cincinnati, O. Toronto, Can.

Treasurer of

LEVERING TYSON
Alumni Federation
Columbia University

 

 

HELEN F. McMILLIN
Wellesley Alumnae Magazine
Wellesley College

J. L. MORRILL
Alumni Secretary
Ohio State University

W.R. OKESON
Lehigh University
E. T. T. WILLIAMS

 

BETHLEHEM
Bethlehem, Pa.

R. W. SAILOR
Cornell Alumni News
Cornell University

W. B. SHAW
Alumni Secretary
University of Michigan

ROBERT SIBLEY
Alumni Secretary
University of California

 

SOUTHERN
Baltimore, Md..

    

RTHAMPTON
Northampton, Mass.

Brown Unuwersit
y

AS
br =
tt =
5
em
cr
P
pi

ES sas

" ai el
a
jen
———_—_

Savannah, Ga.

3 Mis 3253 >
aie
at po
fi
5
4
irl
Atal

   

Williamsport, Pa. Kansas City, Mo.

 

04 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DEATHS

W. A. Ross, ’84, died at Moore Haven, Florida, on
April 22. He had been working in the field and when
he failed to return at the usual time to his home, Mrs.
Ross with some of her neighbors went out to look for
him. They found his body, lying prone on the ground,
life having passed before they found him.

Edwin C. Laird, 88, of Richmond, Va., was fatally
injured July 6th, when the small sedan which he was
driving crashed with a street car. He was pinned in
a mass of wreckage. When he was finally extricated
and rushed to the hospital it was discovered that he
suffered a fractured arm and leg and a probable frac-
ture of the skull. He died within a few hours.

Se

MR. FRANK T. GLASGOW, ’74, DEAD

Mr. Frank T. Glasgow died July 28th in the Jack-
son Memorial Hospital. For several years he had
suffered ill health. On the evening of July 12th he
fell on the lawn at the home of a neighbor and sus-
tained injuries which caused his removal to the hos-
pital, where he died of pneumonia which developed
a few hours before his death.

Mr. Glasgow came to Rockbridge a mature lawyer
and soon established a large practice in Lexington
where he made his home. Receiving his A. B. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1874, he studied law at
the University of Virginia. He started his law prac-
tice in Fincastle where he lived for eight years prior
to his removal to Lexington. He was particularly
gifted and qualified as an advocate at the bar and his
_ position as one of its leaders was soon assured and se-
curely held until some ten years ago, having his inter-
est attracted to other business, he gradually withdrew
from active practice and has since rarely appeared in
court. Actively interested in public affairs, particu-
larly in those relating to the community, he became a
member of the town council and in association with
the mayor in that capacity gave much time to the pub-
lic welfare during a series of years as a member of
“Old Huck’s Council” and administration which in-
augurated an era of improvement in Lexington. His
retirement from the council was marked by his taking
up duties of the Lexington school board, of which up
to a few weeks before his death, when he retired by
resignation, he was the president.

Mr. Glasgow kept in close contact with his alma
mater, Washington and Lee University. While a stu-
dent there he was a member of the Delta Kappa Epsi-
lon fraternity and a foundation member of the Phi
Betta Kappa fraternity when organized at the Uni-
versity fifteen years ago. He was elected in 1907 a
member of the board of trustees of the University, an

office which he resigned last June on account of failing
health.

 

HOTEL ROBERT E. LEE

Lexington, Va.

100 Rooms

Fireproof - -— -

NEW MODERN

 

SHERIDAN HOTEL

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

LARGE, COMFORTABLE ROOMS

REASONABLE RATES

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
One Year, $2.50; $4.00 Two Years
or, both
THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE, 1 year
THE ALUMNI DIRECTORY, 1 copy
$4.50

Send check or money order to

VERBON E. KEMP, Editor, Drawer 897
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

