 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

_ Washington and Lee University

 

 

Vol. I OCTOBER, 1925 No. |

 

 

 

CARNEGIE LIBRARY

 

 

 

 

 

$2.00 Per Year 40c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact businece
at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca- _
tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di.
rectory. Rates on application. ¥

VINCENT M. MILES PAUL D. BARNS
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE a rm ) : ATTORNEY AT Law
Pryor AND MILEs Fort Smith,

Miami, Florida

 

 

Attorneys at Law Arkansas
Firm of Thompson, Barns & Thompson
PHILIP P. GIBSON, Lawyer New York Office: 61 Broadway
bear Stuart CHEVALIER, '03 L. H. CARLOCK
General practice in all State and
Fede#al Courts . MILLER AND CHEVALIER ATTORNEY AT LAW
Suite 926-927: Robson-Prichard Building,| ATPORNEYS AND CouNSELoRs at Law LaFollette, Tennessee
Huntington, West Virginia Southern Building, Washington, D. C.
General Civil Practice Throughout 3
Eastern Kentucky JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09 PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, ’13
BEN D. SMITH, ’14 Attorney at Law Artorney at Law
MEMBER OF BEN V. SMITH AND SON, Peoples Bank Building, 811 Boxley Building,
Lawyers Lynchburg, Virginia Roanoke, Virginia

Somerset, Kentucky

 

James E. Smitherman
JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR John HL. Tucker, fr. ‘10
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS Compliments of the President of the David Se pacithermnan
Tax CONSULTANTS Alumni, Inc. SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
Bankers Trust Building, E. C. CAFFREY, 09 A pa ae , pa
ae : : ti ‘ding,
Walnut 6400-6401 Philadelphia owe ee

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE

Attorneys at Law ALEX M. HITZ CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN, '15
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal Artorney at Law ArToRNEY at Law
Department ' : ime
a a 210 Atlanta Trust Company Building, Suite 479 Mills Building,

Associate Income Tax Specialists Pom .
1100 Investment Building, at San Francisco, California

Washington, D. C.

 

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company
1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

   
   
 

Sed
Pi O

Onn. kt Ta tak a ae

 

 

 

 

————

E. P. DAVIS, President

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager

C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

General Headquarters for W. and L. Men

School Supplies, Books, Stationery, Athletic Goods, Haberdashery
Alumni Are Always Welcome

R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

E. C. Carrrey, President
E. L. GraHaM, Jr., Treasurer

THERE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

VERBON FE. Kemp, Editor
Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

PAGE PAGE
College Opens. «4:2 iia: OME Re kas FS 5 Who's Who on the Faculty—Dr. James L. Howe.. 17
Classification of Students twaaess «cece ensue ves 6 Reaitothal cis CoG es 15's hy va oe one 18
Fraternity A\verages.c. . csunic cs ¢iomom cedewae en 6 The Present Call to Washington and Lee........ 19
Freshman Intelligenos:....v¢stots ota vee ees eee 7 (By President Henry Louis Smith)
Plans for Florida Game... 2ti40 4 see cas eee en < 8 With the “Y”—A. T. Roy Honored............ 20
Football Reoord:. ;.. <'.ic.s Seeteieeutabey ane hee vt 8 The Lee Chapel a Mecca for Tourists............ 21
Home-Coming and the Virginia Game.......... 9 Continued Abuse of the “Swing”................ 22
Complete Football Schedule.......5.......00000 10 A. L. Herold, 09; E. P. Coles, 94; “Pin” Web-
Minor Sporte.s, 3:6 ¥eeus bee > » Selec ceca ahaa 11 SORE NG ince dc 5 000s Gare cate gey tc 24
1925 Generalé i206 «cc ows cao. See 12 john Randolpn “lumewer, ’0O..<:... i. svics cme 25
Football . . 2. 6s saés o'cuate pachu.6.5 ane 13 Alumni Letters—Famous Britisher Pays Tribute.. 26
summer Callers. ici ist 00s cis « «Cee eee a 14 Louis S. Epes, ’08, on State Corporation Commis-
To Reach Lexington by Auto or Train........... 14 4 ee eEE EEE TEER CEE Or. 27
Former General Aces Now Coaching............ 15 PGE MIE TG NOES, So... cave ch oes as Ce 28
Unexpected Bequest Received...............0:- 16 MEME “do 40's pion mtib cs 000 0s bo bie ¢ oe 30
With the Faculigue:seiuag. 24 es ae ee 16 op | a er err ee 31-35

 

 

 

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

ees

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS |

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

Money order or check should accompany order

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 41.39
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

’
4

 

Miss ANNIE WHITE

Honorary Life Member of The Alumni, Inc.

 

HE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

—————

ou. II OCTOBER 1925 No. 1
—— Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
ee

College Opens

Admission of new students for the session 1925-26
was closed in August. There followed a stream of
telegraphic, long distance telephone and personal ap-
peals from tardy applicants. Most of these applica-
tions had to be refused. College formally opened
Thursday, September 17th, with approximately three
hundred Freshmen, five hundred old students and fifty
transfers, fully matriculated.

A psychological examination was given to all new
men Tuesday, September 15th, by the Department of
Education under the direction of Dr. W. M. Brown,
‘12. The results of these examinations were used in
determining the courses to be recommended for the
Freshmen when they matriculated on the following
day.

The first University assembly was held in the Gym-
nasium Friday, September 18th, at one o'clock P. M.
Dr. Smith introduced W. E. Tilson, of Matador,
Texas, president of the student body, who made a short
and pointed address of welcome to the new men.
Henry M. Wilson, president of the Freshmen council,
was introduced. He called attention to the Freshman
rules and the conduct expected from the new students
by the old men. He outlined the policy of the Fresh-
man council for the enforcement of the Freshman
rules. In a short -address of welcome, Dean H. D.
Campbell, 82, sounded the key-note of the Washing-
ton and Lee system of student government in a quota-
tion from General Robert E. Lee, when, as President
of Washington College, he was asked about the rules
for student government. His reply was—‘There are
no rules, sir, except those that govern the conduct of
gentlemen at all times.” President Henry Louis Smith
concluded the assembly with an eloquent address upon
his conception of the three besetting sins of American
fampus life. The meeting was opened and closed with
prayer by Rev. W. W. Morton.

lhe routine of College life was soon in effect. The
football squad, which had reported a week in advance
of the opening date, was well over the preliminary
aches and bruises of training and practice. An un-
3 ually strong Freshman squad reported to Coach
Bodie Davis. The editors and managers of the Ring
Pum Phi and Calyx became active in securing news,
subscriptions ¢ 1 sistcigiaieel ; Be

and advertising for their publications.

 

Harry D. CAMPBELL

Dean of the University

Karl Zerfoss and the Y. M. C. A. Cabinet were busily
engaged in giving advice to Freshmen, securing jobs
and rendering service generally. Try out notices were
posted for the managerships and positions in various
sports, publications and musical organizations. Within
a week the campus was the usual hive of activity.

During registration, Newcomb Hall presented the
familiar scene of activity and confusion. Long lines
of inquiring Freshmen awaited their turns with the
Registrar, Treasurer, Dean and President. They were
followed by equally long lines of sophisticated upper
classmen, who exchanged greetings and summer ex-
periences while awaiting their turns. The machinery
of registration and matriculation was run with more
than the usual efficiency and dispatch.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

According to the
report of Registrar
E,. S. Mattingly, eight
hundred and seventy-
eight students were
registered by October
Ist. Of this number,
five hundred and two
were taking work in
the Academic School.
Two hundred and
eighteen in the School
of Commerce. Ninety-
one in the Law School
and sixty-seven in the
Science School. Next
to Virginia and West
Virginia which rank
first and second respectively, in the number of stu-
dents sent to Washington and Lee, Tennessee, Ken-
tucky and Florida have the largest representation in
the 1925-26 student body. The Registrar’s classifica-
tions are given below.

CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENTS BY

 

E. S. MATTINGLY
Registrar

RESIDENCE
A SE Oe 38
ME i De Bie te er ee RE aS 31
IRIN Nenad iain io and Saw ule oa w ooe-o-~ 0% 2
ORD | RE i, td eR og oa os 6k 4
NS Ree, Les, ss oH, Bec eak sie Wm hte s 0 <0 2
tt .  . . ss ce emcd ewes as bbs 11
I os Rs, i a aioe & 40
CA St, Cdn. bh eath ihe ns 2 eee Nope 27
I A eRe eS LS eas i iets AN ee ne we 12
EE MR tte ed aa i ih hae ee: oie 2
CI Ste a ae. Mime uae Ce Bona l
Se a a's alse As 0 big SRM R EW Celts ore 50
ee es Ue eas wo CENT. c obo 20
I et Rie. sid y < oa'e © © © a ]
Ss sda PS 5:50 af vin o 8 on « « 30 «SED 27
I te Se ee 3 2 et i 5
Michigan Deiat ces, Gh oyciy Nee eae 6
GMO ei.. . Stee oo yg oe ey eget ]
La. Sine Sa Ua TUES oN b's fd Rew Ss 29
ESE: Say CO EAP DCSE Ss © Sa a 8
CP haa 1 OSes s ti os dG ei eas CU he’s ]
I Ty SLL, ‘ve y/o 0 0's bibd Wawa BidiA Ba 3
sd aa se oie ¥ big Wise. 1 ols Ske DD wins ale 24
I SD Sng oiuiy ic Wr Rlk ah wllnju bie PARCRBT DDO ie 3
CE er a wee beac’ 31
i i io nl, acger d's pid ain. ed » Vidéo e's 8 'Op 30
I al a let wy die ece ia eieie « 20
I ME i Sg oR eras big ad ite owiehe © 7
Eh Ah i ee lucy athe hd bedi wie 1

INN ss is plynkie-w-aid sb score bMS) bE edhe 34

South Carolina .........0c0eceees 0.00
TOMmMeSS€G® 2... ccc ccc ciccwbvicvccces be)
TORBS ik ccc che cca eee ce cc veb see's en
VEFBi oe cc ce cent cece ces 6s os nn 211
West Virginia . i .....00. cc. 0c 0s 005 sen
WiscOMSin ..... 2 0 ccc cccc ses cvciwe « 6 nnn
WRU” s-< acho ce 6 0 9:90 0). *. ¢ 00.0 0:0 a 0 0-5 nn
China soso re i cece ces cecces Re

Regia © x . okb soc 6k w ctw Sen aces ceo alec» bia

Total number of students registered October 1,
i

CLASSIFICATION OF STUDENTS BY

SCHOOLS .

The Colleges ios sacsa se. oics. l.22

The School of Commerce and Administration....

The School of Applied Science........... .3aim

The School of Law. :......0...0.0.00000 0

2G GE MA I eee

FRATERNITY AVERAGES

Pal Epsilon Pisce. 77.129
Sigma Phi Epsilon... 5.63... 74.745
Tete Beta TR es an Rs oe es oe 73.901
Delta ‘Tau Deltas. oes ee 73.823
Aloha: Chi* RO... 0s Ssesiae's os oe Ve 73.574
Phi Gamms Della... coe... 00s. ee ecgenn 73.251
Pht Kappa Sime. 06. ee. ooo. Se 72.951
Bee Thee Pi cl Asan... eee 72.594
Sigma Alpha Epsilon.................¢00mmm 72.461
Pi Kappa Alpha. .....0.5.........0000 5
Aipha Taw Omega. ...0.0..0%.0. 00. 71.473
Kaope ‘Alpha. .s.0...%.400 00% 003... 5 70.552
Lambda Chi Alpha... :. 2.3.20. .....000 0 70.165
Pi Rape Pils. ei. es eek ee ec eee ann 69.947
poner On en a Sis o's 0 sew ob a os 0 69.741
Phi ‘Delta Theta... i... 0c ete e ee ees ee 69.658
PO OR Pe aoe cc ee oe 6 oon 69.486
Masos Same 0. oo ee a 69.183
Se ESP ETET ELSES NETL 67.188
Wameees Chab e206 2 er, as 80.842

FRATERNITIES MAKE SEVERAL
CHANGES

A number of changes in the residences of fra-
ternities on the campus were made during the summer
months.

The Beta Theta Pis are in their new home which
was practically completed during the latter part of last
semester and was occupied for a month or so last year.
Likewise the Phi Kappa Sigmas, whose new home was
completed during the summer months and which is

 

av, +
..% .
oe ="
ey ied

‘ . . he
glihx >see see Me 1h ie NE he, &

4 a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

Freshman Intelligence

Boston is in Connecticut.

A Zulu has four legs.

Arthur Brisbane is a famous actor.

These things were revealed in psychological tests
given freshmen entering Washington and Lee this
fall, under direction of Dr. W. M. Brown, ’14, head
of the Department of Education and Psychology.
However, such answers were unusual.

The popular slogan, “The Makings of a Nation,”
constitutes a breakfast food advertisement, several
freshmen wrote down to edify university examiners.
Others are quite sure that “a chamelion is a bird,” that
Rumania “was an ally of Germany in a recent war,”
and that Plymouth Rock “is a type of granite.”

“Many reasons for tragic failures in college,” ac-
cording to President Henry Louis Smith of the Uni-
versity, “are fundamentally traceable to a lack of un-
derstanding of the entering student’s actual mental
capacity. Many young men undertake work in our
universities for which they are totally unfitted, yet
other fields of endeavor, quite as useful, often more
lucrative, are thoroughly suited to their talents.”

Discovery of what mental equipment the young man
brings with him to college and his ability to assimilate
information is the purpose of these tests, university
officials explained.

Washington and Lee, under the direction of Dr.
Brown, has used this system for four years. Before
this year, only psychological examinations—to ascer-
tain of what the student was capable—have been given.
But now the educational tests have been added.

Tests, in varying forms, are used in many schools
throughout the country—some of them as a part of the
entrance requirement. At Washington and Lee, the
examinations undertake to find out the personal ability
and mental background of each student.

The system used here differs in two other ways
from that used at many schools. Elsewhere tests are
given the student after he has enrolled, and classifica-

tion is then effected. But at Washington and Lee, the

tests are given the day before registration, freshmen
are marked by trained scorers, and the result is then
pady for men who assist registration the next day.

Thus,” explained Dr. Brown, “when a student
Comes to one of the instructors for aid in making out
his program, the latter has only to glance at the Per-

———

sonnel Record card of the particular student and see
what his needs are.”

Tests given take about three hours and a half for
each student. The questions could be answered in less
time by all who take the tests, but liberal time is given
to prevent fatigue.

The tests fall under two heads: (1) educational,
(2) psychological. In the first division, come tests in
simple mathematics and English. A reading test to
find how much the student remembers of what he
reads, is also included. ‘The psychological tests con-
tain questions, with a choice of answers, which probe
the ability of the student to think logically.

Samples of the questions asked under the latter
group are:

Which of the words below means the opposite of
north ?

1. Pole; 2. equator; 3. south; 4. east; 5. west.

A foot is to a man, and a paw is to a cat as a hoot
4-8 1 ns what ?

1. dog; 2. horse; 3. shoe; 4. blacksmith; 5. saddle.

One number is wrong with the following series.
What should the number be?

0, 1, 3, 6, 10, 15, 21, 28, 34.

Students are divided into three groups by the
marks made on the tests. Rating and results of the
test are known only to the faculty members. Thus the
professor is better able to judge the students in the
class room.

The middle group, number 2, has the greatest num-
ber in it, according to Dr. Brown. Out of the 300
freshmen taking the examinations this fall, there were
approximately 125 in the middle group. Those re-
ceiving high marks, group number 1, numbered 85,
and the low marks totalled about the same.

A Personnel Record card is filled out by students,
giving a detailed account of his previous work, scho-
lastic and vocational. Interests, hobbies, and life
work, are all contained on this sheet. On the other
side of the card are places where all that he does in
college may be summed up.

“In this way,” Dr. Brown said, “the University
officials, and members of the faculty, are never out of
touch with the students, and can find out at any time,
what their exact status is.”

__From Associated Press Dispatch—Roscok ELLARD.

 

aa a across from the Memorial gate, have
Tau Sake a. the present semester. The Alpha
cas es lave moved f rom their old home near the
ad etoa house on West Main Street, directly

rom the old Zeta Beta Tau House. The Zeta

Beta Tfaus have moved from their residence of last
year to a site on South Main Street, formerly the
Sigma Phi Epsilon house. The Sigma Alpha Epsilons
have moved from their old home located on the campus
and are living in their new home on Jordan Street.

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PLANS FOR FLORIDA-W. & L. GAME

Jacksonville, Florida Alumni are making extensive
plans for the entertainment of the team and visiting
Alumni when the Generals’ gridiron warriors meet the
powerful Gator eleven in that city on November 28th.
The hospitality and the efficiency of the Jacksonville
Alumni on the occasion of last year’s battle set a high
precedent. However, Fred Valz, °10, assures us that
the Jacksonville Alumni Chapter will surpass itself
this year.

The W. & L.-Florida game will be played at the
new concrete municipal stadium, the first unit of which
will be completed by November 28th. This game, which
will be the last on the Generals’ 1925 schedule, will be
one of the most important of the year. Mr. Valz and
his co-workers are making plans to accommodate
twenty thousand visitors. Every alumnus within a
radius of five hundred miles will be expected.

Tickets in the Washington and Lee section can be
obtained by writing to F. M. Valz, Atlantic National
Bank Building, Jacksonville, Florida, with remittance
of $2.00 each. Alumni headquarters will be estab-
lished at the Seminole Hotel. We are advised that the
Alumni banquet after the game, which proved such a
success last year, will be repeated. In addition,
several “surprise” features in the way of hospitality
and amusement will be offered.

Last year’s committee headed by Robert A. Baker,
‘06, Chairman, Fred Valz, ’10, M. H. Myerson, ’15,
Richard W. Daniel, ’01, Herman Ulmer, ’15, C. T.
Dawkins, °12, Robert Hutcheson, *12, and Damon
Yerkes, ’15, will be in charge of arrangements this
year. All Alumni who can possibly do so are advised
to make their plans to attend this game.

 

THE V. P. L.-W. & L. GAME, LYNCHBURG,
OCTOBER 24th

The annual classic between Washington and Lee
and the Virginia Polytechnic Institute was staged at
the Lynchburg, Virginia, State Fair Grounds on Sat-
urday afternoon, October 24th, at 2:30 P. M.

Under the direction of F. W. McWane, ’13, Presi-
dent and A. L. Burger, Secretary, the efficient Lynch-
burg Alumni chapter had made elaborate plans for
this event. A preliminary meeting of the chapter was
held at the Virginian Hotel October 16th. President
Henry Louis Smith was the principal speaker at this
meeting.

Alumni Headquarters were established in the lobby
of the Virginian Hotel. However, there was only a
meager attendance of out-of-town Alumni due to the
inclement weather. Many familiar faces were missed.
A dance was given by the Lynchburg Alumni Chapter
at the City Auditorium during the evening after the
game. It was well attended and enjoyed by the student
body.

  
  
  
  
  
  
    
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

PITTSBURGH ALUMNI DINNER

The Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, Alumni Association,
J. W. Claudy, ’09, D.D., President, N. C. Evans, 16,
Vice-President, and C. C. Moore, Secretary, arrz
an informal dinner for visiting Alumni at the Fc .
Pitt Hotel on Friday, September 25th, just prior to the
W. & L,-Pitt game. 2

Visitors were welcomed by a representative of or :
of the Pittsburgh papers. “Eddie” Davis and Coach
Forest Fletcher gave short talks on conditions at é:
University, football prospects and other topics of in-
terest. 7

Those attending the dinner were, Peter B. Launce, _
H. A. Derr, 710; R. B. McDougle, 17; T. G. Leap, 17 .
E. P. Davis, ’15; Forest Fletcher; Ned Graham, ab
S. H. Showell, D. A. Reynolds, ’22; C. C. Hilen ifs
Jr.; J. R. Handlon; Geo. H. Lee, ex ’03; E. A
Abrams, ’11; J. P. Tricasse, ex ’21; R. B. Grubb, ’20;—
J. W. Claudy, 09; N. C. Evans, ’16; J. W. Lee 2x
02; H. J. Rectenwald, ’16; C. P. Robinson, 710; Chas.
Watkins, 08; J. C. Whetzel. 14; O. W. Richardson
‘10; Frank Barnard, °12; “Buck” Sweetland, 16; W. —
F. McCann, ’21; and C. C. Moore, °13. 7

FOOTBALL RECORD TO DATE

September 26th—W. & L., 0; U. of Pitt., 28.
October 3rd—W. & LC is erie 20.
October 10th—W. & L., 6; Princeton, 15.
October 17th—W. & L., 25; Kentucky, 0.
October 24th—W. & L., 20; V. P. L, 0.

The Big Blue team hit its stride in the clash with _
Princeton. Playing in a high cold wind, the Generals 4
outplayed the famous Tiger team in every department — §
except passing and punting. Even then the score
would have been tied when ‘Ty Rauber recovered a
fumble and raced for a touchdown—only to be re-
called by the referee. Against the strong University
of Kentucky team the Generals were at the top of their
form. They displayed a clear superiority in every
branch of the game,—Ty Rauber, Captain Kay Thomas
and Henry Wilson starring. =

Against the heavy V. P. I. team at Lynchburg, the
Generals demonstrated that they could maintain the
pace shown against Kentucky. Playing in a quagmire —
of mud, they out-punted, out-ran, out-passed and out-
plunged their strong opponents. Mike Palmer, star
half-back, proved his ever-increasing brilliance on both
offensive and defensive play. ‘Ty Rauber bore the
brunt of the punting and line plunging attack. In
both branches, he out-distanced his opponents in ground
gained by a large margin. ‘The entire team played a
brand of foot-ball that would have done them credit
on a dry, clear day. The final score of W. & L.—20
and V. P. I.—O, resulted.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

Home-Coming and the Virginia Game

 

The first official annual HOME-

 

COMING DAY at Washington and
Lee has been set for Saturday, Novem-
ee has \

ber 7th, in accordance with the motion
ye ’

passed at the last annual meeting ot the
Alumni,

tion for
ball classic between Washington and Lee

Incorporated. The chief attrac-
this day will be the annual foot-
and her ancient rival, the University of
Virginia, that takes place on Wilson Field
at 2 o'clock in the afternoon. ‘The annual
meeting of the Alumni Association will
be held at 11:00 A. M. in the Carnegie
Library, prior to the game. Dr. G. H.
Denny, President of the University of
Alabama, will be the principal speaker
at this meeting. Luncheon will be serve.
in the Library immediately after the
Alumni meeting.

The program for HOME-COMING
takes place in one day, thus enabling
Alumni to arrive in the morning and
depart in the afternoon, if necessary.
Alumni are invited to visit the class rooms
and take part in class discussion during
the morning hours from 9 to 11:30, on
Saturday, November 7th. The annual
meeting of the Alumni, Incorporated,
will be called to order promptly at 11 :00
A. M. in the main reading room of the
Carnegie Library. A buffet luncheon will
be served by the University in the Li-
brary immediately following adjournment
of the meeting, which will be in ample
time for the game at 2 P. M.

Several
sections in the new stadium will be re-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

served for out-of-town Alumni. ‘Tickets
for seats in these sections can be had

PRESIDENT DENNY

 

 

“2 m remittance of $2.00 each to Alumni
secretary. Inasmuch as the seats in this section will
be reserved, there will be no necessity to wait in line
prior to the game. It is suggested that the Alumni
50 to the game in a body from the Alumni Luncheon.

Dr. Denny will make the trip from Alabama es-
pecially for HOME-COMING DAY. In a letter ac-

cepting Anh as . ;
? g the invitation of the Alumni, Incorporated, he
sald : Tt have

‘ promptly asked and secured release
Irom another

aa oe in order that | may go back
. al a ae ’ old ties and meet old friends.
Carnegie j as addres. the sai same meeting in the
. a ee hes the subject of “The Alumnus and
the  . ae He will be the guest of honor at
ie, A. Sera leon immediately following the meet-
eventful ae ne Washington and Lee during that

period of 1902-12, Dr. Denny became the

popular and respected idol of his students. Since leav-
ing Washington and Lee he has continued his progres-
sive work in the field of Education as. President of the
University of Alabama. His presence on HOME-
COMING DAY will afford many of his friends
among Alumni to greet him for the first time since
their College days. A large delegation will be ex-
pected.

Railroad and bus schedules are published elsewhere
in this issue. Also the names of the various fraternity
house managers are listed for the benefit of fraternity
Alumni who plan to return and stay at their traternity
houses. In addition, Lexington Alumni and_ their
families, the Faculty and other Lexington homes are
preparing to entertain a limited number of their

(Continued on page 13)

10

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FoorTspaALL TEAM, FRESHMAN, 1925

COMPLETE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

 

 

yn TS ae! pee ee Pee Pe

 

 

Date

Sept. 26

Nov.

Nov.

Novy.

Nov.

. 10

~

14

21

 

 

 

w~

2

 

wo

4
Time

730

700

730

700

:00

:00

:00

:00

W. & L. vs.
|

U. of Pitt, at

Pittsburgh, Pa.

Furman, at
Lexington

Princeton, at
Princeton, N. J.

Kentucky, at
Lexington, Ky.
Vida ment
Lynchburg, Va.

W. Va., at

Charleston, W. Va.

Virginia, at
JLexington, Va.

Maryland, at

|
Washington, D. C. |

N. C. State, at
Lexington, Va.
|

Florida, at
Jacksonville, Fla.

 

Place

New Pitt
Stadium

Wilson
Field

Princeton
Stadium

U. of Ky.
Field

Fair
Grounds

Laidley

Stadium

| Wilson

Field

| Wilson
Field
j

Municipal

Stadium

|

i
|
|

Ticket Reserva-
vations from

K. E. Davis,
U. of Pitt,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

R. A. Smith,
Manager,
Lexington, Va.

W. T. Hanzsche,
347 Spring St.,

Trenton, N. J.

S. A. Bowles,
U. of Ky.

H. C. Adams,

White Star Laundry

Lynchburg, Va.

R. A. Smith,
Lexington, Va.

R. A. Smith,
Lexington, Va.

H. C. Byrd,
College Park

R. A. Smith,

Lexington, Va.

Fred Valz,
Jacksonville, Fla.

Co.,

 

Admis- | Alumni
sion | Head-
Price | Quarters

 

$2.00 | Fort Pitt Hot

$1.50 | Newcomb Hall

$1.50 | Stacy Trent
Hotel

$2.00 | LaFayette
Hotel

$2.00 | Virginian
Hotel

$2.00 | Hotel

| Holley

|

$2.00 | Library

|

$2.00 | Hotel
Raleigh
$1.50 | Nes.comb Hall

 

$2.00 | Seminole

Hotel

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

MINOR SPORTS

While no definite schedules have yet been announced
for the teams in the various minor sports, indications
point toward a successful year in Cross Country,
Track, Boxing, Swimming, and Wrestling.

Candidates have already been called out for Cross
Country. Varsity material for the marathon is very
scarce this year although there are a large number ot
Freshmen reporting to Coach Fletcher daily. Lane
Howard, premier distance runner and captain of last
year’s team, Bruce Gaunaway, Allen Rushton and
Hunter Bean, all varsity aces who graduated last year,
will be sorely missed. Only Captain Rufus Fulton,
Gordon and Pfeffer are left from the Varsity team of
last year. In addition, Henry Lee and Wigglesworth,
Varsity milers, are showing excellent form.

Regular track practice will not begin until the close
of the Football season. Candidates for Boxing and
Wrestling have been called out but as yet Coach
Mathis has not had time to size up his material.

Washington and Lee will not be entered in the an-
ual Southern Basketball tournament to be held in
Atlanta, February 26, 1926, according to the decision
of the Athletic council. Instead the General’s Cage
team will probably take a Northern trip late in the
Basketball season, playing Catholic University, Mary-
land, George Washington and the Navy. As yet a
Basketball coach has not been elected to succeed Eddie
Cameron.

LEE SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM MATRICU-
LATES 42 STUDENTS

At the present time there are 42 students enrolled
in the Lee School of Journalism. Three courses, three
hours each, will be given the first semester of the year
1925-6. Freshmen are not eligible to pursue any
course in journalism. Sophomores will not be con-
sidered prepared to begin unless they have done better
than average work in freshman English and have
either completed or expect to elect, this year eco-
nomics, political science, or sociology. Juniors and
seniors are eligible to all journalism courses except
Journalism 3, which is “Special Features and Maga-
zine Articles.” ‘This is an advanced course which will
be Open only to students who have had three months
ot full-time experience on a professional daily news-
paper, and who have served as editors or associate
editors of college newspapers. Students who have
completed a course in newswriting in a school of col-
lege rank, and students who have completed the
Course in Advanced Composition at Washington and
Lee or its equivalent, and are simultaneously eiecting
the course in news writing, are also eligible to elect
the court in Journalism 3.

 

   

A EMathis

University of Ill
Wrestli tas
reting "]

 

 

 

 

 

A. E. MATHIS SUCCEEDS COACH BRETT

A. E. Mathis of Goreville, Illinois, has been elected
Coach of Wrestling and Boxing, succeeding Coach E.
E. Brett in that department. Mr. Brett has been
granted a leave of absence for one year and has en-
tered the Real Estate business at Palm Beach, Florida.

Mr. Mathis comes to Washington and Lee highly
recommended by the Coaching school of the Univer-
sity of Illinois, which he attended three and one-half
years. In addition, he has the unique record of never
having lost a fall in the Western conference during his
two years wrestling experience on the strong Uni-
versity of Illinois wrestling team, of which he was
elected Captain last year.

Both Wrestling and Boxing are becoming increas-
ingly popular at Washington and Lee., Coach Mathis
should have no trouble in building up those depart-
ments of Washington and Lee athletic activity from
the beginning so ably made by Coach Brett.

Due to a fire that completely destroyed the plant
printing it, the Alumni Directory will be indefinitely
delayed.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1925 Generals
e

   

 

PaLMER, W. W.—H. B. STEM MONS, L. S.—G. Rauser, L. J.—F. B. Hout, R. M.—T.

 

'
;
’
=
a
-
=
.
7
a
-
7
«4%
J

 

McVay, J. T—H.B. “Tex” Trson—T. Wiuson, H. M—Q. B.

 

DavEs, R. I1.—E.

 

Van Horn, C. E.—C. Bepnick, M. I.—G. Hawkins, “Rep’—C. Tuomas, Kay, Capt.—E.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Football

With one of the greatest lines ever gathered to-
gether here, the Generals eleven opened the season
with the niversity of Pittsburgh on September 26th
and were defeated 28-0. The following Saturday,
they met the powerful eleven from Furman University
on “Wilson Field and suffered the small end of a 20-
15 score, after holding the visitors scoreless during the
frst half and piling up fifteen points by way of two
touch downs and a safety.

In both games the Generals suffered from the aerial
attacks of their opponents—scant gains being made
through the line. On the offensive they also keenly
felt the absence of “Bo” McMillan, stellar half-back
on last year’s eleven. On the other hand, the line
plunging and punting of Ty Rauber at full-back was
eminently satisfactory.

Now, with the difficult Princeton game out of the
way and no serious injuries marring their prospects,
the team shows every indication of completing the sea-
son victoriously. The back-field, while very light, 1s
composed of experienced and seasoned players. With
the capable direction of Jimmy DeHart and the ex-
perience of the first four games, the back-field should
present a finished opposition and be capable of execut-
ing their offensive plays successfully for the remain-
der of the season.

In Van Horn, Coach DeHart has a worthy sub-
stitute for “Red” Hawkins at center, in case of injury.
Both Stemmons and Budnick are playing their usual
stellar game at guard, with John Dawson showing
worlds of stuff as substitute. Maynard Holt is prov-
ing to be the star of the line at tackle, with his running
mate, “Tex” Tilson at the opposite tackle and captain
of last year’s team running him a close second. Cap-
tain “Kay” Thomas, “Babe” Spotts, Ralph Daves and
“Curley” Saunders have shown up well at the end po-
sitions, with Thomas in the fore-front.

Mike Palmer and Johny McVey are doing creditable
work at half-back, while Henry Wilson, fighting field
General, directs the team at quarter. “Ty” Rauber at
full-back ably completes the Varsity line-up.

If the Big Blue team reaches the date (November
7th) of the Virginia game without great loss from in-
juries, it has rosy prospects for capturing that annual
classic. By way of opposition the Virginia eleven ap-
pears stronger than ever before since athletic relations
were resumed. But by that time the Generals should
be more thoroughly seasoned and experienced than
their ancient rivals, due to the strenuous schedule that
they will have completed.

The weather hazard is a dangerous element in the
encounter with the powerful University of Florida
eleven at Jacksonville, on November 28th. Last year
the team suffered immeasurably from the debilitating
heat of the tropics. ‘This year, should cool weather
prevail, the Generals may avenge last year’s defeat.
Other remaining games should take care of themselves.
West Virginia at Charleston, on October 31st, will be
the usual uphill fight—while the V. P. I. aggregation
in Lynchburg, October 24th, should be defeated
handily as well as Maryland at Washington, on No-
vember 14th, and North Carolina State at Lexington,
on November 21st.

HOME-COMING AND THE VIRGINIA GAME
(Continued from page 9)

Alumni friends. Other accommodations are notori-
ously scarce but every possible provision will be made
to take care of all out-of-town Alumni on HOME-
COMING DAY.

Alumni who plan to drive to Lexington for this oc-
casion are advised to stop in the near-by towns of
Staunton, Roanoke and Lynchburg for the preceding
night. Excellent roads now connect these towns with
Lexington and the trip may be made in from one to
three hours from any one of these points Saturday
morning. However, every Alumnus is urged to get to
Lexington by 11:30 Saturday morning in order.to at-
tend the annual meeting of the Alumni, Incorporated,
and earlier if possible.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W. & L. vs. VA., 1923, Frew Gets ARrouND VA.’s END

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

SUMMER CALLERS

Because of its climate and the appeal of old memo
ries, Lexington and the Washington and Lee campus
attracts many alumni during the summer months.
Many on vacation trips from far away states include
Lexington in their itinerary. Others make the
pilgrimage to Lexington just to visit old and familiar
scenes.

Judge R. L. Peck, B.L. 95, of Springfield, Tennes-
see, was an enthusiastic visitor during the past sum-
mer. It was his first visit in the thirty years since his
graduation. He found many old friends in the town
who remembered him and spent several hours in the
Alumni offices reading the biographies of his former
class-mates from the proof sheets of the Alumni Di-
rectory. He described his visit as “an inspiration and
a pleasure,’ and stated that he planned to be a frequent
caller during the succeeding years.

Senator Frank M. Hudson, B.L. ’96, of Miami,
Florida, spent several days in Lexington, accompany-
ing his family who spent the summer at the Campus
Inn.

Albert Steves, Jr., B.A. ’06, stopped by for a few
crowded days just as College opened. Back on the
campus he was the same “Kid” Steves of Campus
fame, enthusiastically greeted by his many friends on
the Faculty and among the towns-people. He pre-
dicted that the oldest of his five sons, who plans to
enter Washington and Lee next Fall, will start a line
that will be in attendance for the next twenty years—
the remaining four being scheduled to enter at four-
year intervals. Mr. Steves attended the opening Col:
lege Assembly at the Gymnasium and expressed his
sincere regret that the meeting could not be held in the
Chapel.

Captain Reuben Ragland, ’09, of Tampa, Florida,
and John A. Moore, 05, of Miami, were also visitors
during the summer. Paul D. Converse, ’17, passed
through on a summer auto tour with his family. Gus
Fritchie, ‘21, was here for a few days with his bride
and Raleigh M. Jenkins, ’24, and wife stopped over-
night en route to Atlantic City, N. J. (“Chick’’)
Evans, °16, of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, was here for
a few days as the guest of Eddie Davis.

Among the Washington and Lee supporters at the
Furman-Washington and Lee game, Saturday, Octo-
ber 3rd, were J. R. Caskie, 06; F. W. McWane, ’13;
C. E. Burks, 712; Bob Ramsey, ’15; Roger Winborne,
‘11; H. S. (“Buck”) Bryant, 19; Irving Lynn, ’21;
Bill Lynn, ’23; Bill Spencer, ’21; Wilfred Webb, ’22
and V. R. Kennedy, ’24. —

Many other Alumni have stopped over in passing.
The location of the Alumni office on the third floor of
Newcomb Hall makes it inconvenient for returning
alumni to call. Therefore, the Alumni Secretary fails
to meet a large number of the returning Alumni.

    
   
    
  
  
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
 
  
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
   
  
 
   
 
  

TO REACH LEXINGTON BY AUTO

From the North and North-East: Take the Lincoln —
Highway to Gettysburg; thence to Frederick, Mary.
land, Harpers Ferry, W. Va., Winchester, Va., and_
the Valley Pike to Lexington. Good hard surfaced
road all of the way. Or, from Washington, D. C., via 4
the Lee Highway to Winchester and the Valley Pike —
to Lexington. 3

From the East: Either route from Richmond, —
Petersburg and the tide-water section, via _ Ashland,
Louisa, Charlottesville and Staunton; or via Farmyilie,
Lynchburg and Natural Bridge is good. ‘The former
offers better road while the latter is shorter. a

From the South: Very good roads are available —
through North Carolina, via Danville, Va. and Lynch-|
burg, Va. to Natural Bridge. Also via Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, and Rocky Mount, Virginia to —
Roanoke except for the twenty-five mile stretch be- —
tween Rocky Mount and Roanoke. Through Tennes-—
see via Knoxville, Tenn., Bristol, Va. Wytheville, Va. _
and Roanoke, the roads are reported good. The road —
from Roanoke to Lexington is in excellent condition. —

From the West: The best route is over the National —
Highway via Wheeling, West Virginia, Uniontown, —
Pennsylvania, Cumberland, Maryland, and Winchester, —
Virginia—thence to Lexington on the Valley Pike. ~
Other routes through West Virginia are under con-
struction, but trips may be effected via Charleston,
West Virginia, to White Sulphur Springs, West Vir- —
ginia, Clifton Forge, Virginia, to Lexington; or via —
Charleston, Hinton, West Virginia, Princeton, West _
Virginia, Bluefield, West Virginia, to Roanoke and —
Lexington.

TO REACH LEXINGTON BY TRAIN

From the North and North-East, come by the N. &
W. Railway, reaching Buena Vista, Virginia, at 7:20
each night and morning, thence by bus twelve miles to
Lexington; or, on the C. & O. to Staunton and by bus,
thirty-six miles to Lexington. Connections can also
be made from the Southern at Lynchburg to the C. &
©. for Lexington.

From the East, come by the C. & O. to Charlottes-
ville and Staunton; thence to Lexington by bus, or via
the James River line, C. & O. to Lexington direct, with
a change at Balcony Falls.

Busses for Lexington meet all trains at Staunton
and Roanoke four times each day. They are com-
fortable and the roads good.

From the South, take the Southern to Lynchburg of
Roanoke, and then the C. & O. to Lexington or the N.
& W. to Buena Vista.

From the West, the C. & O. through West Virginia
with changes at Clifton Forge and Balcony Falls; of
the N. & W. to Roanoke and Buena Vista.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Former General Aces Now Coaching

Three stars from recent Washington and Lee
athletic teams are now in the field of professional
Athletics. “Bo” MacMillan, ’24, is head coach at the
McCallie School at Chattanooga, Tennessee. “Stu-
dent” Frew, ’23, is directing the gridiron and baseball
aspirations of the Fishbourne Military Academy at
Waynesboro, Virginia, and “Eddie” Cameron, ’24, is
‘1 charge of Athletics at the Greenbrier Military
Academy of Lewisburg, West Virginia.

“Po” MacMillan, ’24, sensational half back and
first string Catcher at Washington and Lee during the
past three years, signed up with the McCallie School
upon graduation last year. Although still eligible to
play another year, he decided to continue to serve
Washington and Lee by endeavoring to train future
stars in the “De Hart” system with the possibility of
sending them on to fill his old position in future years.

“Student” Frew, hard-hitting out-fielder and bril-
liant quarter-back on the teams of ’21-’23, has been in
professional baseball since his graduation. He was
with the Detroit “Tigers” and’ the Pittsburgh “Pi-
rates,” playing on minor league teams in his home
State of South Carolina between times. He led his
league in hitting during the past season. He will di-
rect the gridiron and diamond activities of Fishburne
this year.

As head coach at Greenbrier, “Eddie” Cameron
should soon be ranked as one of the greatest prep
school coaches in the South. As a player and a coach
he showed distinct ability at Washington and Lee
where he coached the basketball team last year, and

was Captain of the football team the preceding year.
His marriage early in the football season of his Senior
year to Miss Nancy Timberlake of Staunton, Virginia,
which was not announced until the close of the sea-
son, created considerable interest among his many
friends. Both he and his wife became very popular
with the people of Lexington during their short resi-
dence here.

September 7, 1925.
Verbon E. Kemp,
‘ditor The ALUMNI MAGAZINE,

Lexington, Virginia.

My dear Kemp:

I recently received a copy of the ALumNi Maca-
ZINE with the subscription blanks enclosed, so I
thought I might as well send my check for both the
Directory and Magazine. 1 wouldn't do without
them for anything.

As you see I am now in the real estate game, like
every one else in Florida. I am getting along fine, but
you can bet your last dollar that I wish I could be back
at the grand old institution.

I am planning on coming up for Finals in ’26, and
hope I will see you then.

With best regards to you and all of the fellows, I
am

Yours for W. & L.

“Brirty” NorveE tL, ’24.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. M. Frew, ’23

 

“Eppre” CAMERON, '24

 

H. F. McMman, 725

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

UNEXPECTED BEQUEST OF $150,000
RECEIVED

An issue of the Baltimore (Maryland) “Sun” dur-
ing the summer brought the first news of a bequest to
Washington and Lee from the late William A. Shutze
of that city. It is estimated to be approximately one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars.

Mr. Shutze was not an Alumnus. As _ yet the
Alumni office has been unable to secure any accurate
information regarding him or the motives that
prompted his generous remembrance of Washington
and Lee. From the wording of his will, directing that
the gift be used for the “Lee Memorial Fund,” it is
assumed that he had become interested in Washington
and Lee through the printed bulletins issued periodi-
cally by President Henry Louis Smith. It was only in
these bulletins that reference has been made to the
“Tee Memorial Fund.”

Like the Doremus bequest, this gift will be held in
trust during the life of Mrs. Shutze and her daughter ;
then, according to the provision of the will, the entire
residue is to be given to Washington and Lee as a
memorial. ‘The clause from Mr. Shutze’s will relating
to his gift to Washington and Lee is as follows:

“FIFTH: And from and after the death of the
survivor of my said wife and her said daughter, I di-
rect my said trustee to pay over the corpus of the trust
estate as then constituted unto the WASHINGTON
AND LEE UNIVERSITY of Lexington, Virginia,
absolutely, free, clear and discharged of the trust, it
being my desire that the same shall be appropriated for
the uses of the Lee Memorial Fund, as a memorial to
my deceased wife, Adaline Beebe Shutze, and my
present wife, Lillian E. Shutze, the expression of my
desire however in no way to affect an absolute gift to
the said University of said corpus of said trust estate.”

 

WITH THE FACULTY

Professsor R. N. Latture spent the summer at the
University of Chicago, taking graduate work in
French and Sociology.

Dr. R. G. Campbell spent the summer in Europe.

Professor R. H. Ellard, head of the new Lee
Memorial School of Journalism, is living in the old
Phi Kappa Sigma House. Journalism classes are con-
ducted in a part of the lower floor of his home.

Coach and Mrs. Forrest Fletcher have a fine baby
boy, born during the summer—a candidate for track
honors in 1942. . es

Professors Raymond ‘T. Johnson and Thomas C.
Billings, new members of the Law Faculty, have taken
up their work at Tucker Hall in the vacancies left by
Professors Holt and Tyree.

Dr. Livingston W. Smith, ’96, head of the Depart-
ment of Mathematics, has returned to his chair after
an enfdrced leave of one year due to his severe illness.

  
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  

He has completely ‘recovered and looks to be in Be
cellent health. 3
Professor Fulbright, of the Department of Pub ia
Speaking, failed to return to resume his work vie
Washington and Lee this year. His work will be
temporarily under the direction of Dr. S. B. Neff.
Professor William Coan, of the Accounting ~
partment, suffered a severe illness and operation dur- |
ing the summer but is now fully recovered. 4
Dr. D. B. Easter returned from his trip to Europe
shortly after college opened. 3
Dr. W. G. Bean spent the summer teaching at the
University of Alabama. %
Professor E. K. Paxton has returned to his work j i 4
the Math Department after spending a year in the .
graduate school of Columbia University. y
Washington and Lee Alumni appearing on thie
Faculty list for the first time this year are, L. M. Har- |
rison, A. B. Geology, and W. H. Boyer, A.B., A.M. —
History. George J. Igwin, B.A. 719 in the Depafilll
ment of Romance Languages, returns to his post here —
after a year’s leave of absence spent at Princeton.
Dr. J. O. Lofburg, Professor of Ancient Languages, |
spent some time during the summer touring through —
Florida where he visited his native home at De Land. —
Dr. B. A. Wooten, head of the Department of —
Physics, spent most of the summer in Lexington. He —
conducted the work of the Dean’s office during the ab-—
sence of Dean H. D. Campbell and Assistant Dean 4
D. B. Easter.
Dr. E. F. Shannon, head of the English Dest ee
ment, taught in the University of Virginia Summer —
School for one session.

NEW YORK ALUMNI

Sixty-five Alumni from the Manhattan district met
at the Lafayette Hotel in New York City for dinner, —
Friday evening, October 16th, to form a permanent
New York Alumni Association. To “Toad” Snively,
‘23, goes the credit for the large attendance, the most é
interesting program and the general success of the
meeting. A complete report of the New York organ-
ization will be given in the next issue of the ALUMNI ~
Macazine. However, Alumni visiting New York
may be assured of finding an active and enthusiastic —
Alumni chapter at any time in the future. ;

Following the organization dinner of the New York
City Alumni, a special committee headed by Honorable
John W. Davis met to perfect ways and means for
raising a: substantial Washington and Lee endowment
fund in New York City. This committee met again
at luncheon on Wednesday, October 21st, at the Mid-
day Club in New York. President Henry Louis Smith
and Secretary Verbon FE. Kemp attended the meet-
ings of this committee and assisted in drafting the final
campaign plans.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Who's Who in the Faculty

_James Lewis Howe, Professor of Chemistry and
Dean of the School of Applied Science.

Last year Washington and Lee’s newest, most
modern and most spacious building was completed. lt
was built especially for the Department of Chemistry.
The growth and development of this department from
ene class room and one laboratory to a department de-
manding a separate, especially equipped building with
three hundred thousand square feet of floor space has
heen the work of Dr. James Lewis Howe, Professor
of Chemistry at Washington and Lee since 1894.

Dr. Howe first taught at Central University oi
Kentucky, now known as Centre College. His under-
graduate study was done at Amherst College, Massa-
chusetts, where he received his A.B. in 1880. He
specialized in Chemistry, Physics and Mathematics at
Amherst and continued his work in Chemistry,
Mineralogy and Medicine at Berlin and Gottingen
after graduation. He received his M.A. and Ph.D. at
Gottingen in 1882 and was awarded an honorary M.D.
by the Louisville, Kentucky Hospital College of
Medicine in 1886.

Leaving Central University to accept the chair of
Chemistry at Washington and Lee in 1894, Dr. Howe
entered into Washington and Lee’s struggle for edu-
cational advancement with dynamic energy and far-
sighted vision. ‘Today his department is one of the
strongest in the University. The fruits of his most
productive years are now in evidence. It has been a
steady and consistent growth encompassing thirty
years service—the product of authoritative knowledge,
clear vision, tolerance and understanding, inate teach-
ing ability and the love of his work.

It has been said of Dr. Howe that he is the most
versatile man on the Faculty. Freshmen are told that
he thinks in German, writes in Latin and English and
reads Chinese for recreation.
from wrong.

And this is not far
He is an ardent protagonist of foreign
missions and, therefore, is a keen student of the
Chinese and Japenese languages and customs. He
lived in Germany for some time and has used German
texts for reference constantly.
An addition to teaching and writing text books on
eastry and kindred subjects, Dr. Howe has been
esident of a prosperous Lexington bank, has written
books on Missions, is a trustee of the United Society
e Christian Endeavor and a member of the Advisory
Council of the simplified spelling Board, and is a
recognized authority in the field of Medicine.
<<? uh ~ born at Newburyport, Massachu-
a _ onihnadiegy Miss Henrietta Marvine of Scran-
fon, ] eee hey have two daughters and one
- 4. Howe, Jr., who graduated at Washington

 

 

Dr. Jas. L. Howe
Dean of the School of Applied Science

 

 

 

 

 

and ee 1918. Dr. Howe’s published works are “A
Bibliography of the Metals of the Platinum Group,”
1897; “Inorganic Chemistry According to the Periodic
Law,” 1898; “Inorganic Chemistry,” 3rd Edit., 1921;
“Brief History of Missions,” 1913; “A Bibliography
of the Metals of the Platinum Group, 1749-1917,”
1919, and translator, “Guide to Preparation Work in
Inorganic Chemistry” (from the German) 1902.

He is a member of the prominent American, Eng-
lish and German Chemical and other scientific so-
cieties; Secretary and Vice-President (1900) Council
American Association for the Advancement of
Science; member Special Committee on Platinum of
the National Research Council, 1917, and President of
the Virginia Academy of Science, 1924. He is a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa,
and Delta Kappa Epsilon.

Many Alumni will think this introduction super-
fluous for they have known and loved Dr. Howe since
their college days. In any event, they will rejoice in
his achievement and appreciate the news of his ac-
tivities.

Alumni will enjoy greeting their former Professors
on the campus during Home-Coming Day, Saturday,
November 7th. Dr. Denny will be present, with Dean
H. D. Campbell, Dr. James L. Howe and the entire
Faculty to extend a warm welcome to every Alumnus.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Editorial

Thackeray said in Pendennis, “Every man, however
brief or inglorious may have been his academical
career, must remember with kindness and tenderness
the old university comrades and days.”

It is around that sentiment that our plans for
Home-Coming Day, on Saturday, November 7th, have
been made. Commencement proved to be an incon-
venient and inappropriate date for Alumni reunions.
The Campus was given over to under-graduate ac-
tivity at that time and there was no outstanding attrac-
tion for returning Alumni.

HOME-COMING DAY will be Alumni Day.
Alumni are invited to attend classes and to participate
in class discussions. Dr. George H. Denny has
promised to be present and address the annual meet-
ing of the Alumni, Incorporated. Several sections in
the grand-stand will be reserved for returning Alumni
at the Virginia-Washington and Lee game on Wilson
Field in the afternoon. Every possible provision will
be made for the Alumni on that day.
~ The returning alumnus will witness the College in
action. He will meet many old friends. He will have
the opportunity to offer resolutions and vote upon
matters of policy relative to the administration of
University affairs, at the meeting of the Alumni, In-
corporated. He will be entertained at a luncheon
given for him by the University. He will witness a
classic gridiron battle—and leave Lexington rejuve-
nated.

Therefore, every Alumnus who can possibly do so
should make his plans to take this first annual pil-
erimage to the campus on HOME-COMING DAY.

 

Alumni Organization

On October 16th, seventy-five Alumni from New
York City and vicinity gathered at the Hotel Lafayette
in New York for an organization dinner. It proved
to be one of the most enthusiastic and successful
Alumni meetings ever held. Its success was due chiefly
to the efforts of D. R. Snively, ’23, E. B. Vinson, ’22,
and W. L. McCorkle, ’77.

On the same evening another successful dinner was
given by the Lynchburg, Virginia Alumni Association,
with about forty Alumni assembled to hear an address
by President Henry Louis Smith and to make plans
for the V. P. I. game to be played in Lynchburg on
October 24th. Under the direction of F. W. Mc-
Wane, ’14, James R. Caskie, 06, and many other ac-
tive and enthusiastic officers the Lynchburg Associa-
tion has become a most effectual attribute of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Through the individual effort of W. T. (“Bill”)
Hanzsche, ’13, of Trenton, New Jersey, two sections

in the Princeton stands were filled with Washington
and Lee supporters at the W. & L.-Princeton game on ~
October 10th.

The New Orleans, Louisiana, Alumni have long
maintained an efficiently organized body for the ad-
vancement of Washington and Lee in their home state.
Jacksonville, Florida, and Memphis, Tennessee, have
also made steady advancement toward a permanent
local organization.

Therefore, it is a proven fact from actual experi-
ence that interesting and effective local Alumni Chap-
ters can be organized and maintained. It will take
time and effort on the part of a few willing workers.
The response at first may be discouraging. But the 4
ultimate effect of such effort will be of lasting good —
and profit to the individual Alumni and to their Alma
Mater.

 

Publicity

The long lamented lack of adequate newspaper re-
ports on Washington and Lee activities seems to be
permanently remedied under the direction of Profes-
sor Roscoe Ellard of the School of Journalism. A
most gratifying improvement has already been noted.
Of particular significance was his Associated Press
report on the address of General Sir Frederick Maur-
ice in the Lee Chapel early in September. Mr. Ellard
had just arrived in Lexington and had not received
any publicity assignments. However, with the instinct
of his profession he saw the news value of the ad-
dress by the famous British soldier-author and volun-
tarily sent in a dispatch to the Associated Press. An
Editorial in the Richmond, Virginia News Leader a
few days later stated that General Maurice’s address
in Lexington had received far more publicity than the
combined reviews and press-agent reports on his latest
book, “Robert E. Lee, the Soldier.”

 

 

The Team

On paper Washington and Lee had the best team
in its history at the opening of the 1925 season. ‘Then
they lost their first two games through inefficient prac-
tice of the rudiments of Foot-ball. Against the strong
Princeton Tigers on October 10th, they demonstrated
that their pre-season reputation was well founded.
Again against the University of Kentucky, they pre-
sented an almost perfect machine, through the work-
ings of which could be plainly seen the magic touch of
Coach “Jimmy” DeHart, the outstanding Coach in
Southern Foot-ball. With V. P. I. safely disposed
of the 1925 Generals should amass a glorious string _
of victories during the remainder of the season.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

The Present Call of America to Washington and Lee

By Henry Louis SMITH.

Man’s complex nature is threefold, consisting of a
body, a mind, and an immortal spirit, each acting and
reacting on the other°two. The Washington and Lee
ideal of modern “college education” is the full de-
velopment of all three, with the moral nature, mani-
festing itself in love and worship and unselfish service,
on the throne of each complete individuality, controll-
ing, guiding, and utilizing the powers and capabilities
of both body and mind.

Bodily development alone leaves man a low-browed
brute. Intellectual development devoid of moral cul-
ture may turn this brute into a devil in human form.
The widely-acclaimed blessings of modern democracy
may easily become curses if moral culture and training
are omitted. There are few gifts more fatal to human
happiness and human development than a trained in-
tellect without moral character, a highly developed
body given over to animalism, liberty of action without
self-control, wealth without wisdom, leisure without
morality, authority without justice, and power un-
tempered by mercy or brotherhood.

The bolshevism which is disintegrating European
civilization, the alternating periods of medieval despot-
ism which are fighting it with its own weapons, the
breakdown of its newborn political democracies, the
savage and increasing lawlessness of our own beloved
land, the widespread revolt of the ignorant and im-
mature and criminal Many against all the restraints of
Law and Morality—these constitute the Present Peril
of our Christian Civilization. What we used to call
“the masses” are to rule and form the American social
and industrial civilization of To-morrow. Whether
this is to be the self-destruction of Russian Bolshevism
or the rising of millions of enlightened freemen in the
bonds of mutual brotherhood depends under God on

cs

 

 

 

PresipENtT Henry. Louris SMITH

 

 

whether such institutions as Washington and Lee can
furnish these revolting and restless millions with ef-
fectively trained Leaders of the Lee type, whose Char-
acter and Training shall enable the Moral Culture of
Western Civilization to catch up with and dominate its
recent amazing advance in inventive genius, organized
efficiency, and the mastery of Nature’s giant forces.

This is the sublime Function, this the inspiring Call
to Service, of the interstate, interdenominational
Nursery of Leadership endowed long ago by Wash-
ington, re-organized and rebuilt for the present task
and era by Robert E. Lee, and now facing, in this
whirlwind age of reconstruction, the supreme op-
portunity of its long and fruitful career.

 

 

Miss Rockwell is Selected Librarian

Miss H. A. Rockwell of Pennsylvania has been se-
cured as university librarian at Washington and Lee
for 1925-26. During the past two years, Miss Rock-
well has been a member of the library staff at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin. She is taking the place of Miss
Blanche P. McCrum, who is absent on leave for one
year. The students who are helping with the library
work this year are W. D. Mulinix and C. A. Strahorn.

During the summer months, about forty new books
have been added to the collection in the library. The
following is a list of the recently secured volumes

which will be of interest to the greatest number of —
readers: C. William Beebe’s “Jungle Days;” A. F.
G. Bell’s “Contemporary Spanish Literature ;” Nich-
olas Murray Butler’s “Building the American Na-
tion;” Thomas H. Dickinson’s “Playrights of the New
American ‘Theatre;” James Fitzmaurice-Kelly’s “Ox-
ford Book of Spanish Verse;” John Gallsworthy’s
“Caravan ;” Albert L. Guerard’s “Masters of French
Romance ;” Gilbert Murray’s “Five Stages of Greek
Religion ;” Charles Sarolea’s “Impressions of Soviet
Russia.”

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WITH THE “Y”
Four Hunprep ATTEND COLLEGE NIGHT.

More than four hundred new and old _ students
gathered in the Y. M. C. A. rooms at the opening of
College, to hear the ideals and traditions of Washing-
ton and Lee discussed and to practice the school songs
and yells. President Henry Louis Smith made an ad-
dress of welcome to the Freshmen. Dr. E. F. Shan-
non, head of the Department of English, spoke on the
Faculty’s interest in the students. Rev. T. M. Swann,
speaking in behalf of the ministers of the town, wel-
comed the students to the Lexington churches. Other
speakers were J. D. Mayhew, president of the Y. M.
C. A.; W. E. Tilson, Student Body president; Kay
Thomas, captain of football; and Karl Zerfoss, Y. M.
C. A. secretary. “Eddie” Felsenthal, cheerleader,
taught the new men several of the school yells. The
Glee Club quartet sang the “Swing’’ and “College
Friendships,” after which the songs were sung by the
whole audience.

 

BLUE RIDGE

Fourteen delegates from the Washington and Lee
student body, and Karl P. Zerfoss, secretary, attended
the annual Southern Student Y. M. C. A. conference
at Blue Ridge, North Carolina, during the summer.
where they heard such men as Robert E. Speer, W.
L. Poteat and Kirby Page deliver a series of in-
spirational lectures. A. T. Roy, of the Washington
and Lee delegation and president of the Southern
Region, presided at the conference meetings. Those
attending the conference were A. T. Roy, Bruce Jack-
son, J. B. Towell, Frank Charlton, George De Pass,
Charles Lowry, Dan Dix, Carl Knight, George Burks,
Joe Clower, William Mullinix, Alex Moffett, Karl
Zerfoss and Rev. W. W. Morton.

 

One of the new features offered by the student Y.
M. C. A. this year was a trip to Natural Bridge for
Freshmen. Fifty-eight new men made up the party
Sunday afternoon, September 27th. Trucks were
furnished by McCrum Drug Company. Supper was
served by the “Y.” and an inspirational talk delivered

- by Rev. Jackson, pastor of the Lexington Baptist
Church.

 

A. T. ROY, ’25, HONORED

Four Washington and Lee Alumni were particularly
prominent at the annual conference of the National
Council of the student department of the Y. M. C. A.,
held at Lake Forest, Illinois, during the summer.

Francis P. Miller, 14, Associate Secretary of the
National Student Department, was in charge of the
conference. E. B. Shultz, ’15, and Karl P. Zerfoss,

 

A. T. Roy

 

 

Secretary of the Washington and Lee Y. M. C. A.
were secretarial representatives of the Rocky Moun-
tain and Southern regions respectively. A. T. Roy,
‘25, was the student representative of the Southern
region. About seventy-five delegates representing the
various student “Regions” of the National Y. M. C.
A. and Y. W. C. A. were present at the conference.

Of particular significance was the election of
“Andy” Roy, ’25, as president of the National Coun-
cil of Christian Associations at this conference. ‘This
council embraces all of the student Y. M. C. A. and
Y. W. C. A. associations. He had previously served
as president of the Washington and Lee Association,
vice-president of the National Y. M. C. A. student
council and president of the Southern Regional Stu-
dent Conferenece.

Hailing from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, originally,
“Andy” Roy entered Washington and Lee in 1921, upon
the recommendation of J. W. Claudy, 09. He im-
mediately became affiliated with the local Y. M. C. A.
organization of which he was made president in 1924.
Receiving his degree at last Commencement, he en-
tered the graduate school of Princeton University this

Fall.

 

November 7th, the day of the Virginia game, has
been designated a HOME COMING DAY. All
Alumni are urged to return to the campus on that date.
The annual meeting of the Alumni, Incorporated, will
be held at eleven o’clock A. M. in the Carnegie Li-
brary and an Alumni luncheon will be served immedi-
ately following the meeting. Dr. George H. Denny
will be the guest of honor.

Order your copy of the Alumni Directory now. It
will be off the press by November 15th. Send your
check for $3.50 to the Alumni Secretary.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

The Lee Chapel a Mecca for Tourists

The number of tourists registering at the Lee
Chapel during the past summer was double that of
any preceding period. Seven thousand, three hundred
and thirty-eight registered during the month of
August alone. Inasmuch as many tourists visit the
Chapel without registering, it is safe to estimate that
ten thousand people passed through the Chapel every
month during the summer.

Some interesting figures regarding the visitors to
the Lee Shrine have been given out by Mrs. Albert S.
Edwards, Custodian. From her record we find that
various conventions visit the Chapel in a body from
surrounding towns. Four hundréd Confederate Vet-
erans and their sponsors came from the State U. C. V.
Convention. ‘Two hundred came from the State Con-
vention of the American Legion. One hundred thirty-
six editors representing thirty-eight states assembled
there to hear a welcoming address from President
Henry Louis Smith. A delegation of fifty school
teachers from the University of Virginia Summer
School came over.

Many foreign countries are represented on the
Chapel Registrar. France, Holland, Greece, China,
Canada, India, Australia, England, Hawaii, The
Phillipine Islands, Syria, Cuba and various countries
of South and Central America were represented dur-
ing the past summer.

Among the many distinguished personages visiting
the Chapel, famous authors, railroad presidents, mili-
tary leaders, politicians, sculptors and artists are listed.
Also several relatives and descendants of George
Washington, Robert E. Lee and of Colonel E. V.
Valentine, the sculptor, have registered.

The Confederate Veterans, rapidly diminishing in
numbers, are, as always, deeply touched by the likeness
of their beloved Commander portrayed in Valentine's
recumbent statute of General Lee. Many have in-
teresting stories to tell of their service in the Gray
ranks. Two Veterans from Scotland told of running
the blocade in ’61 and of their work in the Treasury
Department of the C. S. A.

Visiting Alumni are also prompt in paying their
respects in this impressive shrine of their College days.

 

Lege MeEMmorIAL CHAPEL

 

 

Among the alumni registering during the summer
were Paul D. Converse, 17, Robert L. Peck, ’94,
Reuben Ragland, 09, Gus Fritchie, 19, F. M. Hud-
son, 96, Horace W. Phillips, 09, Charles W. Phillips,
‘21, and Albert Steves, ’06.

 

 

 

 

_ The classes of ’21, ’22, ’23, ’24, ’25; of ’02, ’03, ’04,
OS; and of ’83, ’84, ’85 and ’86 will hold their reunions
of HOME-COMING DAY according to the new plan
ot Class Reunions adopted at the last meeting of the
Alumni, Incorporated. Members of these classes are
particularly urged to be present. Alumni headquarters
will be established at the Carnegie Library and sepa-
rate class reunion meetings may be held there at con-
venient times during the day.

“By the banks of old North River, winding lazy round
the hill,

To the Dear old college campus, my thoughts are
turning still;

For the college bells are calling, and I know they
say to me

‘Come you back, you old Alumnus, back to Washing-

99

ton and Lee.’

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CONTINUED ABUSE OF THE “SWING”

 

The action of William B. Wisdom, ’21, and the
Louisiana Alumni Association in opposition to the
misuse of the “Swing,” popular Washington and Lee
song, by Tulane University, that was reported in the
last issue of the ALUMNr MAGAZINE brought forth
many commendatory comments from interested
Alumni.

With these comments came several reports about
similar abuses by other universities. According to re-
ports, the University of Alabama is now the chief of-
fender. A letter from “Red” Reynolds, ’25, of Lynn,
Alabama, enclosed a news clipping stating that, ‘The
Alabama Swing caused almost the same excitement in
Paris as it does when played at a University dance,”
in an account of the European tour of a University of
Alabama orchestra during the summer.

A letter was written to Dr. George H. Denny,
President of the University of Alabama by the Alumni
Secretary, calling his attention to these reports. He
replied in full sympathy but stated that no responsible
group of students had taken the action of appropriat-
ing the words or music of the “Swing.” He also
called attention to the fact that responsible members
of the Alabama student body had taken the matter up
with Thornton W. Allen, 712, author of the “Swing.”

In response to an enquiry from the Alumni Secre-
tary, Mr. Allen said—‘I do not intend to allow this
melody to be published, advertised or broadcasted un-
der any title except the ‘Washington and Lee Swing’

During the past summer through the generous
cooperation of Washington and Lee Alumni, as well
as my own representative, I carried on a country-wide
investigation relative to the misuse of the ‘Swing’ and
the infringements of my copyrights. The results war-
ranted the employment of legal counsel. I have been
and still am using every effort to stop this illegal prac-
tice. While I am most anxious to help other uni-
versities and to cooperate with legitimate concerns
handling the music and records of the ‘Swing,’ I em-
phatically state again that any violation of these copy-
rights will be prosecuted.”

Mr. Allen also stated that a special edition of the
music of the “Swing’—without words—was being
published for the use of other colleges and universities,
but that it would be under the title of “The Washing-
ton and Lee Swing.’ His published warning regard-
ing the use of the “Swing” under any other title is
printed elsewhere on this page. Every alumnus is
urged to cooperate with Mr. Allen and the Alumni
Association in reporting any knowledge of the further
misuse of the “Swing’’ under any other title than the
“Washington and Lee Swing.”

WARNING!

Inasmuch as over fifty American universities and
schools have adopted the melody of the WASHING-
TON AND LEE SWING for their own use, and

much publicity is being given these various songs un- __

der titles other than the WASHINGTON AND LEE
SWING.

Warning is hereby given that any person, company
or institution who broadcasts this melody over the
radio without giving credit to the WASHINGTON

AND LEE SWING, or who records or in any other

way infringes upon the copyrights owned by the un-
dersigned, will be prosecuted to the fullest extent of
the law. .

The WASHINGTON AND LEE SWING is fully
protected by U. S. and foreign copyrights, and no one
other than the undersigned ever has been or is per-
mitted to print copies of this music or to sign contracts
in connection therewith. ;

Every effort will be made to protect legitimate
dealers, and any information regarding the infringe-
ment of the undersigned’s copyrights will be appre-
ciated.

(Signed ) THORNTON W. ALLEN,

Owner and Publisher,
437 Fifth Avenue, New York City.

 

TWO PROFESSORS WRITE TULANE SONG

A dispatch from the New Orleans, Louisiana,
Times Picayune of September 11th, states: ;

“The $100 prize offered by the Tulane University
Alumni Association for a college song to replace the
Washington and Lee foot-ball ‘Swing’ has been won
by Professor Marten Hoor of Tulane and Professor
Walter Goldstein of Newcomb College. The song is
entitled ‘The Olive and Blue.’ ”

“Members of the committee which selected the song
were: Professor H. W. Moseley, Dr. Erlich, mem-
ber of the Cleveland Symphony Orchestra; Albert E.
Holleman, director of student activities, and Henry
Scherer, member of the association.”

 

NOTICE

Anyone hearing the Washington and Lee Swing, ad-
vertised, broadcasted or published under any other
title, is urged to communicate their information to the
Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia,
at once.

 

If you do not know the Washington and Lee
“Swing,” come back to the campus on Home-Coming
Day, Saturday, November 7th, and hear it properly
sung at the Virginia-Washington and Lee Foot-ball
game in the afternoon.

    

|

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

 

 

_ = OT ER

cs a J
ew 5
nee -
- . ees " , * es ‘
SS TES CR TNE IIE ETA ETE NN RT I A RT AES
7

 

 

 

4
3;
‘“
;
8
&)
‘
*
j
ne

5

 

 

A
ey

=
= |
=
%
~

 

 

 

 

 

—
i - me - wateandtninedibr Maes
:
Campus View, Looxkinc Across THE LAWN
“Ship me back to old Virginia, where the summer skies For I’ve heard their voices calling and it’s there that
are blue, I would be,
Where the gods walk on the hill-tops in the sunset’s In the shadow vf the mountain, back at Washington

rosy hue, and Lee.”

24 THE AILUMNI MAGAZINE

A. L. HEROLD, ’09

Amos Ll. Herold, ’09, who has been at the head of
the English Department at the University of Tulsa,
Tulsa, Oklahoma, for the past three years, recently
served as debate coach in a contest between Tulsa and
Oxford University of Oxford England, in which
Tulsa won the popular decision of the audience. The
Tulsa debaters, although not as proficient as their op-
ponents in wit and satire, offered more substantial ar-
guments and showed a ready and good-natured ac-
ceptance of all salies at their expense. It proved to be
a contest between two worlds—a contrast between the
American and the English system of debating—in
which the American representatives were victorious.
Entertained sumptiously at a banquet at the close of
the debate, one of the Englishmen observed: “If your
debaters were in England instead of being entertained
at a midnight banquet such as this, they would either
be sent to bed at midnight or put to bed at three
o’clock.”

Mr. Herold expects to make a tour of the world, be-
ginning in February. He has secured reservations on
the “Resolute” of the United American Lines, and will
cross the Pacific to Japan, The Philippines, Java,
Sumatra, Burma, India, Egypt and Europe, where he
plans to spend about two months returning to New
York about the first of next August.

 

“PIN” WEBSTER, 712

W. L. Webster, 12, popularly known as “Pin”
Webster, has won for himself many honors through
his ability, leadership and personality. President of
the Webster Motor Sales Company, Inc., Vice-Presi-
dent of the Southern States Finance Company, Inc.,
and Director of the Union National Bank, in
Schenectady, New York, where he lives, “Pin’’ Webster
won the distinction of being nominated as candidate
for Mayor of that city. Having no desire, however,
for the political lime light, “Pin” declined the nomina-
tion. The following extract was taken from a column
in the Albany Knickerbocker Press, August 2nd:

“W. L,. Webster, head of the Webster Motor Sales
Corporation in Schenectady, may be decided upon as
the Democratic candidate for mayor. It is known Mr.
Webster is the choice of organization leaders, but an-
nouncement has been withheld because of the candidacy
of District Attorney Alexander T. Blessing. Leaders in
the Democratic party have been concerned with the
question of how to ‘dispose’ of the district attorney,
before endorsing the candidacy of Mr. Webster.

“Mr. Webster never has held public office. He is
a member of the Mohawk club and the Mohawk Golf
club, and it is believed he would be willing to head the
Democratic city ticket.”

E. P. COLES, ’94

A write-up that recently appeared in the Charlotte,
N. C., Observer, relative to the career of E. P. Coles,
04, formerly a resident of Lexington, will be of in-
tense interest to his many friends among the Washing-
ton and Lee Alumni. ‘The sketch as it appears in the ~
Observer is as follows: |

“BE. P. Coles is an example of what careful training
will do for a young man. ‘The success he has made
through schooling and training for his present position
as branch manager for the General Electric Company,
should be an inspiration to any school boy.

“Mr. Coles was born in Virginia and graduated
from Washington and Lee University in 1894. After
this he took an intensive course at the General Electric
plant at Schenectady, N. Y. After completing this, he
was offered a position with the company in the testing
department. He served in this department for some
time and was then sent to South America on coristruc-
tion work for five years.

“On returning to the United States, he was attached
to the Philadelphia office of the company as an en-
gineer from 1900 to 1908 and came to Charlotte as
manager of this branch office where he has been ever
since. He has been with the General Electric Com-
pany since July 1, 1894. He has control of the trade
of the company in the state of North Carolina.

“Mr. Coles is a director in the Made-in-Carolina
exposition, vice-president of the Charlotte Country
Club and a director of the Manufactures’ club. He is
a member of the Episcopal Church.”

Oe

 

Our last letter from James Somerville, Jr., 14,
who is now located in Washington, D. C., stated:
“The other day, while rounding the corner of 10th
and E, I ran_squarely into H. W. Kelly who used to
row in the number two place right behind me in the
Albert Sidney shell of 1913, and whom I hadn't seen
since I ran into him equally as unexpectedly at the
Culpeper horse race in 1914. Needless to say we ar-
ranged a ‘get-together,’ and reviewed the happenings
since 1914—no small order. He holds a responsible
position in the legal department of the Washington
Power Company, where he presides over a mahogany
desk big enough for a directors meeting.

“T shall look forward to receiving the ALUMNI
Macazinr. The last two copies have been very in-
teresting.”

—

The Alumni Directory is not yet off the press, but
it is worth waiting for. Send in your check for $3.50
now to pay for your copy.

*

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

John Randolph Tucker Elected President of Virginia Bar Asscciation

At their annual convention held at Hot Springs,
Virginia, the Virginia State Bar Association chose
John Randolph Tucker, B. A., 700, B. L. ’02, as their
President for the coming year. Mr. Tucker is a son
of Congressman Harry St. G. Tucker, ’75, former
Dean of the Law School, and a grandson of Honor-
able John Randolph Tucker, famous Virginia advo-
cate and statesman and Dean of the Washington and
lee Law School, 1889 to 1897.

This honor follows a long line of distinguished
activity in Mr. Tucker’s chosen field of Law. He
studied at the Harvard Law School for one year after

ving Washington and Lee and entered the practice

Law in Staunton, Virginia, in 1903. He formed a
law partnership in Richmond three years later and has
built up a successful practice in the Virginia Capital,
which has been his home since that time.

During the War, Mr. Tucker was associated with
the legal department of the National War Labor Board
of which Wm. Jett Lauck, 03, was then Secretary.
ut his war activity was not confined to non-military
affairs alone. .He was Captain in the State Militia for
a number of years and subsequently a Major of En-
gineers in the Virginia Volunteers.

Since 1909 he has served as Professor of Constitu-
tional Law and Private Corporations in the Law De-
partment of the University of Richmond. He was
General Counsel for the State Corporation Commis-
sion of Virginia from 1918 to 1923. Since that time
he has been engaged in private practice alone, special-
izing in Corporation and Public Utility Law.

Mr. Tucker and Miss Mary Byrd Harrison, of
Powhatan County, Virginia, were married in 1911.
They have two sons—both prospective Washington
and Lee students. Mr. Tucker was elected to Phi
Beta Kappa at Washington and Lee last year.

A distinguished son of a distinguished family—a
family whose history is closely woven with that of
Washington and Lee, John Randolph Tucker, ’00, as
President of the State Bar Association and a distin-
guished public servant, is again placing the honored
name which he bears far in the forefront of public
esteem.

lhe Alumni, Inc.,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va.
Dear Sirs:

[ am sending my check covering the subscription to
the ALumNr Macazine, but I cannot do it without a
short expression from the heart, concerning it. Until
[ looked inside the sample copy I received I could not

 

 

Jonn RANpdoLPH Tucker, ‘00

 

 

imagine what one would mean. I had seen alumni
magazines from Universities up here, where I have
lived now for two years, but honestly, I believe none
of them is so attractive and inviting as this W. & L.
copy I saw.

I could not be without it, having seen it. How the
old friends came back to me—so many really close
friends I saw inside these covers.

Particularly was I pleased to see the fine work of
my old fellow epicurean, Willie Wisdom, in stopping
the misuse of the Swing. Incidentally, I should like
to report that I believe Alabama has been using it—or
was, until recently.

Please don’t let anything happen to my subscription,
for I should not like to miss a copy.

Yours,

Harry C. Rosert, JR., ’22.

Let the ALUMNI MAGAZINE express your opinions
on Washington and Lee matters. We want to print
your letters, or news of your activities. Just write
to the Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Vir-
ginia. Your Alumni friends want to hear from you.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ANOTHER GEM FROM LIDDELL PECK, ’22

Dear Mr. Kemp:

Once again I take delight in sending you my sub-
scription to the ALUMNI Macazine. To me the pub-
lication means far more than the reading of ink upon
white paper, and good white paper at that. It is a
home-coming in itself and as I read the names of my
old associates on the campus, who so generously made
and shared my happiness, I see them pass before me,
always greeting them and living with each one some
enjoyable moment. In doing this I always find the
awakening a sad one and I close the pages of the issue
with a lump in my throat and a peculiar longing to re-
turn to that favored haunt.

If you have ever traveled far from these shores of
ours you will appreciate somewhat just what that feel-
ing is when I tell you that my idea of a return to the
green lawned campus would lend me the same emo-
tion we receive when the goddess of Liberty first ap-
pears upon the horizon and, as we wave a damp eyed
salutation, the band sends a thrill into your very soul
playing, louder than ever before, “My Country ’Tis
of Thee.” You are, Home! |

And so I long to return to my “home” of four
years—whether it be in that bone crushing taxi from
Buena Vista or as a triumphant CaeSar standing on
the back platform of the Lexington Creeper, uttering
a silent prayer that the engine will not breathe its last
until the grade is made. |

With best wishes for the continued success of the
ALUMNI MaGAzINE and with kindest regards to my
friends in that big, heartless, city, | am

Sincerely,
LIDDELL PECK.

Editor Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va.

Dear Sir:

The ALUMNI MAGAZINE is a great publication. |
do not want to miss any copies.

I note Wisdom’s article on the misuse of the W. &
L.. Swing and in this connection wish to state that
Tulane is not alone in claiming out loved air and
words. An alumnus of U. of Alabama tells me that
both air and words are property of his Alma Mater.
Better send them a copy of Wisdom’s article.

A special orchestra at Pittsburgh’s largest movie
theater played “The W. & L. Swing” as part of their
program one week this summer. Neither Tulane nor
Alabama was credited with it.

Pitt has a fine stadium for our boys to play in the
26th. We will all be there rooting.

Very truly yours,
Dewey ReEyNoLps, ’23.

FAMOUS BRITISH OFFICER PAYS
TRIBUTE TO LEE

Lexington, Va—Ranking General Robert E. Lee
among the half-dozen greatest military leaders of all
times, General Frederick Maurice of the, British army
addressed four hundred persons at the Lee Memorial
Chapel here, September 4th.

General Maurice, a leading military authority and
author of a recent work, “Lee, the Soldier,” spoke
from the foreground of General Lee’s recumbent
statue in the Chapel built under direction of the great
Southern leader while President of Washington Col-
lege. The distinguished English visitor was invited
to Lexington and the University by President Henry
Louis Smith, who entertained him and Lady Maurice
in Lexington.

“T am convinced,” General Maurice told the group
of Lee admirers, “that had the French employed early —
in the war the tactics and strategems which Lee used
to retard Grant’s advance upon Richmond, the Ger-
man armies would have been stopped at the Belgian
frontier. And had we known more of Lee’s and Jack-
son’s methods when the World War came, our job
would have been completed much sooner than it was.”

The British officer ranked Lee with the great British
military idol, Marlborough, but pointed out that in one
respect, that of private character, Lee was the greater
leader.

“Napoleon,” General Maurice explained, “failed to
understand the danger of personal ambition for power
as a deterrent to ultimate military service, and his
downfall in greatness came as a consequence. But al-
ways General Lee was the servant of his state and his
people.”

The noblest work of Lee’s life, General Maurice
said, was his renunciation of wealth and position at the
hands of admirers all over the world when the close
of the Civil War came, for the stern, constructive
work of building mind and character as president of
Washington College, to which he brought the match-
less genius of his mature years and the Godly, inspir-
ing example of his life.

(From Associated Press Dispatch—Roscor ELLARD)

—-—

September, 7, 1925.
The Alumni, Inc.,
Lexington, Va.
Gentlemen :

I am happy to enclose you check for $2.00 for the
ALUMNI MaGazINE. It is unquestionably the greatest
single factor yet devised and executed for perpetuating ?
the glorious W. & L. spirit thru’ the receding years.

Cordially yours,
SamMuEL M. Griascow, ’03.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

FROM FAR OFF CHINA—RAYMOND
WOMELDORF, 717

Presbyterian Mission, South
Hwaianfu, Kiangsu
China :
May 14, 1925.
Dear Kemp,

Your letter came yesterday and reminded me that
the blank you sent had not been filled out. I am
sorry not to have complied with your wishes sooner,
but as far as the directory is concerned it will not be
short of anything in case mine is missing.

The AuumMNnri Macazine is fine and worth the
reading. ‘Those of us out here not a few miles from
W. and L,. are just as interested in her welfare and
cne is sometimes tempted to think even more than
some at home who have many other means of keep-
ing up with the trend of events. We are indebted to
you for getting out a magazine of this type. Jim
Montgomery is also here and occasionally we put the
W. and 1. Swing on the victrola and refresh our
minds with things as they were and how they must be
now.

This man’s language keeps a fellow’s nose to the
grindstone. After two years of grinding the kinder-
earten boys over here can make a fellow feel bad. But
it is great to be here. My job is to look after a boys’
school. We are moving into new quarters this fall.
Wish you could see this bunch of kids. They make
you do lots of guessing to out-guess them.

I was up to see Houston Patterson a few days ago.
The whole family is fine.

Very sincerely,
RAYMOND WOoOMELDORF.

 

September 11, 1925.
Mr Verbon E. Kemp, Secretary,
Dear Sir:

I enclose my check for $5.50 for a copy of the
Alumni Directory and for a subscription to the
Atumnr Macazine for one year from October. Also
enclose the blanks for both, showing my residence ad-
dress, to which I want both sent. Should have done
this long ago.

Please bear in mind that our last gap of unfinished
road between Roanoke and Lexington is to be finished
sometime in October, according to contract, which
means Roanoke alumni ought to take a more active in-
terest in Washington and Lee—especially regarding
athletics—and I hope you will get behind some of the
local grads about this. ‘There is a chance for a big
gathering for the Virginia game with no road excuse
this year.

With best wishes, I am

Sincerely,
Rosert M. Curris.

LOUIS S. EPES, ’08, RECEIVES APPOINT-
MENT ON STATE CORPORATION
COMMISSION

At a recent mass meeting of the citizens of Black-
stone, Virginia, it was resolved that a club, known as
the “Blackstone Epes Club,” be organized with the ob-
ject and purpose of promoting the successful campaign
of their loyal friend and fellow citizen, Senator Louis
S. Epes, 08, in his race for a seat on the Corporation
Commission of Virginia.

In September, having measured up to the many
exacting requirements of public service on the Com-
mission, Senator Epes met the acid test of a heated
political campaign and received his appointment.

Graduating at Hampden-Sidney with second honor
and the degrees of A.B., B.S., and A.M., he taught
for five years to repay the borrowed money expended
on his college course. Following this, he attended the
law school at Washington and Lee graduating in 1908
at the head of his class, and was awarded the prize for
the best legal thesis. Since then he has practised law
at Blackstone where he has a large clientele, and has
attained a high reputation for ability and integrity both
as an advocate and counselor. From 1910 until he re-
signed in 1918 to enter the field artillery of the U. S.
Army, he was Mayor of Blackstone, and as such
demonstrated real executive ability. Soon after his
discharge from the Army, he was tendered a profes-
sorship of law at Washington and Lee, but declined
that he might remain in active practise and public life.

In 1919, he was elected to the State Senate from the
district then composed of the counties of Nottoway,
Lunenburg, Prince Edward, Amelia and Cumberland,
and re-elected in 1923. He has the reputation of being
probably the hardest worker and one of the best in-
formed men in the Senate, and is a member of the
Senate Committees on Finance, Education and Courts
of Justice. Since 1920, he has been a member of the
Legislative auditing committee, which is charged with
making an annual audit of the financial affairs of the
State.

Eminently fitted by temperament and training,
Senator Epes has a high ideal of what public service
should be. He is neither closely affiliated with corpo-
rate interests, nor prejudiced against them. Realizing
the problems coming before the State Corporation
Commission, both the public and the corporate in-
terests feel assured of fair treatment-at his hands.

 

Have you renewed your subscription to the ALUMNI
MacaziNE for the coming year? It is $2.00 for one
year, or $3.50 for two years, payable in advance. Sub-
scription to the MacazinzE is the only form of member-
ship dues levied by the Alumni, Incorporated.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

RICE AND OLD SHOES

R. H. (Dick) Anderson, ’10, of .Lynchburg, Vir-
ginia, is to be married on October 28th to Miss
Martha Wright of that city.

Thomas F. Walker, LLB. ’13, was married on June
15th to Miss Roberta Maury Adams, of Staunton,
who was Head of the Science Department of the
Lynchburg High School. Their home is located in
Wytheville, Virginia.

The marriage of Chapman Belew, ex °14, and Miss
Elizabeth Bottimore was reported among September
nuptials.

The marriage of “Eddie” Campbell, ’18, son of Dr.
and Mrs. Harry D. Campbell, to Miss Esther Anne
Butterworth of Falls Church, Virginia, took place on
August 15th. Dr. and Mrs. Campbell were both
present at the wedding and “Bob” Campbell officiated
as best man.

Henry V. Bell, ex ’19, of Louisville, Kentucky, was
married on April 2nd to Miss Janet Elizabeth Mac-
Lean, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. W. A. MacLean of
that city.

The wedding of Matthew W. Paxton, Jr., ’20, to
Miss Nell Owen, both of Lexington, Virginia, was
an event of interest on October 20th.

The wedding of Joe W. Dingess, ’21, and Miss Jane
Adams of Huntington is reported to have taken place
on August 15th. They will live in Huntington where
Joe is busy in the practice of law.

Announcement was received of the engagement and
approaching marriage of Roy J. Grimley, ’21, to Miss
Elizabeth Frank of Ridgewood, New Jersey. The
bride-to-be is becoming widely known as an accom-
plished pianist.

Lachlan Ward Maclean, ’21, of Richmond, Vir-
ginia, was married to Miss Eleanor Alberta Grant of
Roxbury, Massachusetts on October 19th.

Announcement was received of the engagement and
approaching marriage of Wilfred B. Webb, ‘22, to
Miss Pauline Ruckman of Staunton, Virginia. The
wedding will take place during the Christmas holidays.

James Abram Cranford, ’23, was married on Octo-
ber Ist to Miss Mary Pickett, of Wilmington, North
Carolina.

Jimmy Thomas, ’23, and Miss Kate Howe were
recently married. Mrs. Thomas is a sister of Otis
and Bob Howe.

Paul W. Glenn, ex ’24, of Roanoke, Virginia, re-
cently married Miss Mildred Cook of that city. They
are now living in North Carolina.

The marriage of J. C. Anderson, ’25, and Miss Julia
Tillar of Emporia, Virginia, is reported to take place
some time during October.

Marshall Amos Mott, ex ’26, was married on Sep-
tember 5th to Miss Mary Siloam Herman, who is a
graduate with highest honors from the New England
Conservatory of Music. Their home is in Boston.

William Edwin Holt, Jr., ’23, was married to Miss ~ “a

Grace Weisiger Radisill on October 20th at the Sec-
ond Presbyterian Church, Memphis, Tennessee.

—_--—

ALUMNI DIRECTORY INDEFINITELY
DELAYED BY FIRE IN PRINTING
PLANT

Just as the ALUMNI MAGAZINE goes to press, no-
tice has been received that the plant of the Surber-
Arundale Company, Printers, of Charlottesville, Vir-
ginia, was completely destroyed by fire Sunday night,
October 25th. This company had charge of the print-
ing of the Alumni Directory and Service Record.
Three hundred and fifty-two pages of the volume had
been printed and type had been set for the remaining
one hundred and fifty pages prior to the disaster.

While no accurate information regarding the extent
of the loss has been received, from newspaper reports
it is assumed that all of the work done on the Direc-
tory has been destroyed. Subscribers to the Directory
will be notified as soon as the details are ascertained.
Duplicate records have been kept and the only loss to
the Alumni will be the additional delay.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FoorsaL, GAME, W. & L. vs. V. P. I., 1922

 

odigS sie Sinl as >.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE , 29

Dear Mr. Kemp:

Congratulations upon the latest issue of the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE. I have just finished a couple of entertain-
ing hours with it.

Harold St. John, ’25, and I have been planning
some sort of affair for October 10th for the W. &
I. men who expect to be at Pinceton on that day.
Unfortunately I find that I shall have to leave for the
south a week before the game but until then we shall
go on planning. If you know of any men coming up
who have suggestions to make or requests of any
sort, if they will address them to St. John or to me,
we'll try to straighten them out. Undoubtedly there
will be quite a delegation at the game, and in his
vicinity after the game. Incidentally, my room will
be vacant and the family will be only too glad to take
care of a couple of boys over the week-end. |

Lately I have been more or less indirectly in touch
with Earl Bibb, ’24, and Uhlrich Craig, ex ‘25, but
have made no connection as yet with Mr. Haviland
Stevenson, ’85 who has his office here in Newark. To-
night I tried to find Judge Caffrey by phone in order
to learn whether or not he could help us round up a
crowd for Princeton, but was unsuccessful.

I am enclosing some clippings from the Newark
Evening News which might or might not interest
Jimmy DeHart and Dick Smith. About a week ago
we had a small article on the prospective football line-
up at W. & L. We should get more in the same paper
if you could send anything, as St. John is intimate
with the sporting editor. Other articles might go well
also.

My best to you and the rest of those whom | know
Until I see you in town between
Thanksgiving and New Years—

Pau, O. WHITFIELD.

in Lexington.

 

A bulletin entitled “Where Your Money Went,” out-
lining the progress of the Endowment Campaign, is
being prepared by the University. It will be distributed
to all Alumni.

 

 

THE VIRGINIA GAME!

Lexington—November 7

A NEW PLACE TO EAT

Ample Accommodation on a Crowded
Day

THE SUBWAY KITCHEN

Sandwich Shoppe Extraordinary

Across the Street from the Lexington High School

Next to “The Corner’—Down and in

Toasted Sandwiches—Waffles, Coffee
Cigars and Candy

THE SUBWAY KITCHEN, INC.
WILMER J. DORSEY, Manager

“Something New under the Sun”

Modern Equipment Good Food

SANITARY

 

 

Quality

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers
Charlottesville, Va.

Service

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

Reasonable ‘Prices

 

30 THE:-ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Obituary

Dr. John Nathaniel Prather, ’74, who has been en-
gaged in the practice of dentistry for the past thirty-
six years in Seattle, Washington, died on August 24th
while attending the sessions of the York Rite Masonic
bodies in Olympia. He was eighty-one years of age
when he was stricken. While at Washington and
Lee, Dr. Prather took an active part in athletics, play-
ing at third base on the team, and was popular among
his class-mates and associates. As the years ad-
vanced, his personality was mellowed with that warmth
and gentleness which won for him a wealth of friends.
He was one of the organizers of the lonic Lodge No.
90, and in 1894 became its Master. The recognition
of his valuable leadership brought him many other
honors, and the absence of his activities as a citizen
are deemed a real loss to his community.

 

Colonel T. O. Smith, ex ’82, prominent Birming-
ham banker, died suddenly at his home some weeks
ago. He was a graduate of the V. M. I. in 1882 and
while he only attended Washington and Lee one ses-
sion, 1878-79, previous to his entrance at the Institute,
the University feels the loss of an alumnus who was
genuinely interested in its welfare. He will be es-
pecially missed by Lexington citizens who entertained
a high regard and real affection for this alumnus
whose regular attendance at the re-unions of V. M. I.
alumni was unfailing until last June when his ill
health prevented his return.

 

Judge Erwin J. Clark, ex ’91, died September 2nd
at his home in Houston, Texas. Services were held
the next day at his former home in Waco. Judge
Clark matriculated at Washington and Lee when only
fourteen years of age, an even most extraordinary in
the annals of this Institution. Later, he entered the
University of Texas and before completing his course
there he went to work in his father’s law office. At
the age of twenty-one he was admitted to the bar and
was subsequently appointed Judge of the new Seventy-
fourth District Court at Waco. While serving his
first judgeship, he attended the officers’ training camp
at Leon Springs in 1917, where he was promoted to
the rank of major and served in various regular and
reserve army organizations through the War.  Fol-
lowing the Armistice, he assumed the responsibilities
of his second judgeship.

His untimely death was a great shock, not only to
the people of his community, but throughout the en-
tire State of Texas.

 

Following a brief illness, North Temple de Vebre,
’16, died suddenly in Ashville, North Carolina, on July
18th. Having submitted to an operation for ap-

pendicitis in March, Mr. de Vebre had recovered —
sufficiently to resume his business activities until, taken —

ill in July as a result of toxic poisoning, he was re-
moved to a hospital where two operations were per-
formed in an attempt to save his life.
days later.

Mr. de Vebre had been engaged in real estate busi-
ness in Petersburg, rising to be manager of the com-
pany with which he was associated. His career there
was so successful that, much to the regret of his as-

He died fous

   

sociates, he embarked in business for himself in Ash-

ville, forming a partnership under the firm name of
Patterson and de Vebre, which continued until his
death.

 

Chester M. Gwaltney, ex ’27, a popular student at
the University and a member of last year’s sophomore
class, died on July 20th as the result of spinal injury.
On July 4th, while swimming near his home at Smith-
field, Virginia, he dived into shallow water, striking
his head on the bottom, and was instantly paralyzed.
He lived for more than two weeks after his injury. —

 

PERSONALS

James T. Harrison, ’67, is practising law in Colum-
bus, Ohio.

N. A. Patterson, ’70, who has been retired and livy-
ing on his farm at Dunbarton, R. F. D. No. 2, South
Carolina, expects to assume a position in the near
future with a Georgia Bridge Company. He promises

‘to send us some news in regard to Rev. Clinton Brown

and Judge James Aldrich, both from Barnwell County,
South Carolina, and both of whom attended Washing-
ton and Lee in 1869. |

Rev. C. T. Sherrod, ’72, is clergyman of a parish in-
Miami, Florida.

C. E. Marvin, ’81, who now holds the office of
State Banking Commissioner at Frankfort, Kentucky,
also owns and operates the Andubon Stock Farm lo-
cated near Lexington, Kentucky.

Dr. Edmund Pendleton Tompkins, ex ’90, a native
of Lexington, but who left here in childhood, has re-
turned to his native town and with his family is now
occupying Dr. F. L. Riley’s home on South Washing-
ton Street. Dr. Tompkins has entered a son at Wash-
ington and Lee University for the coming session and
he himself will practice his profession in Lexington
and surrounding country.

Harry H. Albright, ’92, living in Columbus,
Mississippi, is Secretary and treasurer of Robertson
& Company, Inc., of that city.

Avery H. Reed, ex 97, is occupied as consulting
Mining Engineer in Marion, Kentucky. He has con-
tributed to technical press publications, etc.

/

ee

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

PERSONALS

Rev. Hugh McD. Martin, ’92, is Rector of the St.
Paul’s Episcopal Church in Columbus, Ohio.

Dr. Clifford Sperow, ’95, of Martinsburg, West
Virginia, has a prospective end for the 1943 team.

Herbert S. Larrick, 97, is a practicing attorney at
Winchester, Virginia. He also finds time for numer-
ous other activities, such as being president of a suc-
cessful and rapidly growing banking institution in
Winchester.

J. C. Lightner, ’91, is engaged in farming at Warm
Springs, Virginia.

Dr. and Mrs. Samuel McP. Glasgow, ’03, of Knox-
ville, Tennessee, were visitors during August at the
home of Mr. Frank T. Glasgow on White Street.

Mr. and Mrs. John A. Moore, ’05, of Miami,
Florida, were guests at the home of Mrs. Moore’s
mother, Mrs. William T. Shields, on Jefferson Street,
during the summer. ,

Dr. T. Brannon Hubbard, ’06, is a skilled surgeon
in Montgomery, Alabama, and has since the War
owned and operated the Highland Park Sanatorium
for the care of his patients. He has three children,
two boys and a girl.

Henry Cummings Tillman, ’06, is variously re-
ported to us as Judge Tillman of the Greenwood S. C.
County Court, or Major Tillman, Superintendent of
the Baily School at Greenwood, or Honorable Henry
C. Tillman, Attorney.

Mr. Leo Weinberg, ’06, of Frederick, Maryland
was speaker at commencement exercises of Robert E.
Lee high school in Staunton. Following this address,
he come to Lexington where he was a guest of his
brother, Mr. Isaac Weinberg, at his home on Lee
Avenue,

F. M. Durrance, ‘08, formerly of Jacksonville,
Florida, and at present residing in New York City,
was in Lexington on October 7th and 8th, where he
visited many old friends and the Phi Gamma Delta
Fraternity.

Daniel K. Sadler, LL.B. ’09, is practising law in
Raton, New Mexico.

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

OUR FLEET OF
COACH BUSES WILL
GIVE YOU A
DEPENDABLE SERVICE

SCHEDULE

For Roanoke For Staunton
Ly. Lexington 7:00 A. M._ Lv. Lexington 8:00 A. M
- " 10:15 A. M. = " 10:05 A. M.
i . 12:10 P. M. > . 12:30 P. M.
7 as 1:30 P. M. % m 4:30 P. M.
7 o 4:30 P. M. e = 8:30 P. M

For ; For

Lexington and Roanoke Lexington and Staunton

South Bound North Bound
Lv. Staunton 8:15 A. M. Ly. Roanoke 7245 : ae
A ‘ 10:30 AM. —,. i 1 oe
" ’ 12:00 M. 2:00 P. M.

Fi x 3:00 P. M. Lexington only for

Lv. (For Lexington Only) Staunton —
7:15 P. M. Lv. Roanoke 4:30 P. M.
E 7 6:00 P. M.

’

TOWNS’ BUS LINE
Connecting
Roanoke—Lexington—Staunton—Harrisonburg—
Winchester

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

32

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY'S

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

~ McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Forntain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

Lyons Tailoring Co.
TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

COME IN OR WRITE US

 

 

PERSONALS

Horace W. Phillips, 08, who is president of the 4
Argent Lumber Company, in Hardeeville, S. CC,
writes us that he occupies his time with killing snakes

and trying to keep cool.

F. C. Williams, ‘08, who resides in Millboro
Springs, Virginia, has achieved the distinction of being a
the active surveyor for Bath County by appointment.

W. L. Lord, ’09, is Head of the Department of

Mathematics at Woodbury Forest School.

Mr. Rayford W. Alley, ’10, who has been absent |
from his New York office during July and August on —

a trip abroad, has recently returned to this country.
Tom Cather, 10, formerly attorney of Winchester,

Virginia, is now Commonwealth’s Attorney for his —

home county.

James M. Barker, Jr., ’11, is reported as being ac-
tive director of the Security Investment Company of
Bristol and Johnston City, Tennessee, being manager
of the Bond Department. He also occupies the posi-
tion of Vice-President of the Fergs Stamping Com-
pany of Bristol, Virginia, manufacturers of Fergs
Test-Oil, a most practical device for Ford cars.

Burnley R. Elam, 11, is now with the Columbian
National Life Insurance Company of Hartford, Con-
necticutt.

Eleanor Randall, daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Bruce
Rice Richardson (*11) won second prize in the baby

contest at the Bath County Fair as one of the prettiest

girl babies under one year old in that county.

B. R. Richardson, *11, is very successful in his pro-
fession of engineering. He lives at Hot Springs, Vir-
ginia.

J. Newton Harman, ’12, who is located at Welch,
West Virginia, is reported to be a very prominent
lawyer in McDowell County. |

William Jenkins Wilcox, LL.B., 12, is associated
with the legal department of Pennsylvania Power &
Light Company in Allentown, Pennsylvania, where its
general offices are located. This company operates
electric, gas and street railway properties in the east-
ern and central parts of the state.

W. W. Wood, ’12, is assistant engineer with the
Illinois State Highway Department, with headquarters
at Paris, Illinois.

G. Doak Davidson, B.S., ’13, who has been asso-
ciated with Warrior Coal Company, Warriorimne,
West Virginia, for over eleven years, is now Superin-
tendent, Secretary and Treasurer of that corpora-
tion. His keen business ability has also led him to be
connected with a number of other corporations in
southern West Virginia. Mr. Davidson was married
in September, 1924, to Miss Annie M. Humphris of
East Lexington, Virginia. He passed through Lex-
ington during September, only stopping in the town
a day.

0c 5. Pe 4
aus «Pa =

aeeias 8 ie ¥) ae

    

Pere era ee Oo LT ae ee ee ee

ess

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

George W. Cleek, 12, after suffering a severe ill-
ness during the summer that took him to the Uni-
versity Hospital for treatment, is now much improved
in health. He divides his time between managing a
farm and teaching school at Warm Springs, Virginia.

George West Diehl, °13, who is President of the
Concord State Normal, at Athens, West Virginia, has
added to his honors that of Regimental Chaplain of
the 150th Infantry, West Virginia National Guards,
with the rank of Captain.

Thomas F. Walker, LL.B., °13, is practicing law
in Wytheville Virginia, having occupied the law of-
fices of Governor E. Lee ‘Trinkle since February,
1922.

L.. T. Davis, ’14, is at the head of the Latin Depart-
ment in the E. C. Glass High School in Lynchburg,
Virginia.

H. A. Kiser, ex °14, is engineer for Warrior Coal
Company, Yukon Coal Company and several other
corporations in the coal industry in McDowell County,
West Virginia.

D. T. Stant, ex ’14, is deeply engulfed in responsi-
bility, being Democratic City Chairman of Bristol,
Virginia, and also Commonwealth’s Attorney.

S. H. Lewis, 15, after taking a course in graduate
work at the University of Illinois, is now teaching in
the High School at Quincy, Illinois.

J. W. Milner, °15, who is Mayor of the City of
Gulfport, Mississippi, has added to his responsibilities
the proprietorship of the Coast Cocoa-Cola Bottling
Company.

Sayers F. Harman, ex ’16, is deeply engrossed in
the coal industry being manager and part owner of
Yukon Coal Company, Yukon, West Virginia, and
associated with other corporations.

Paul R. Scott, ’16, who has been a member of the
firm of Twyman, Scott & McCarthy in Miami,
Florida, has withdrawn from that partnership to
plunge into the whirlpool of real estate business.

Herman Ulmer, °16, who is an attorney at law in
Jacksonville, Florida, spent a week in Lexington dur-
ing the early part of October with his wife and family.

Mr. and Mrs. Lafe Chafin, ’17, announce the arrival
of their baby girl, Joann Chafin, on September 18th.

Lester Arnold, ’18, is practicing law in Winchester,
Virginia.

Dr. H. I. Pifer, ex ’18, has been engaged in the
practice of medicine at Winchester, Virginia, since
1922. He graduated at the Medical College of Vir-
ginia in 1921 and served for one year as interne at St.
Luke’s Hospital in Richmond.

Tim Carskadon, ex ’22, is busily occupied with his
farm in Keyser, West Virginia. It is rumored (though
you can’t believe all your hear) that he possesses a
Ford.

33

 

 

WEINBERG’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Pus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

CAMPUS BEAUTY--

—And Face Brick go hand in hand. The harmony
of design in the development of the lower campus of
Washington and Lee is largely due to the rich, evenly
matched colors of our Dark Red Colonial Face Brick
used in the Beta Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Sigma Fra-
ternity Houses.

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

Engineers and Contractors
BRICK MANUFACTURERS
Members American Face Brick Assn.

Glasgow, Va.

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

PERSONALS
Carter Crymble, ex °19, occupies the responsible
W. C. FIREBAUGH position of being head of the Crymble, Electric Com-

pany, in Bristol, Virginia.
INSURANCE ADVISOR Joe W. Dingess, ’21, writes us that he is busy prac-
intitle ticing law in Huntington, West Virginia. He re-
: ’ ‘ ported that a get-together meeting was held by the
Rockbridge enue Beviast Agency Built Huntington Alumni on September 2nd at which T.
Y, IVing wtvEe Seldon Jones, ’20, was elected president and himself
secretary and treasurer of the local association for the
Rooms 4 and 5, Rockbridge National Bank Building coming year.

A. M. Gilbert, Jr., ex ’21, is assistant Cashier in the
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA Bank of Williamsport, Maryland.

John Boyd Hoke, ’21, living in Martinsburg, West
Virginia, is assistant Engineer in charge of design for
the West Virginia State Road Commission, Division

No. 5.
ADDRESSES fam. J. Franklin Somers, ’21, is busy helping the W. &

L,. Alumni win the battle of Florida. He has two
Of your former class-mates can be easily | young recruits for his Alma Mater.
Henry V. Bell, ex ’19, is employed in the

Lumber Sales Department of the Wood-Mosaic Com-
pany, of Louisville, Kentucky.

J. G. Anderson and L. B. Rouse, ’23, are practicing
law in Bristol, Virginia.

Thomas Jean Ellis, Jr., ’23, who formerly lived in

Order your copy now by sending check St. Louis, Missouri, is now associated with the firm of
Lamb and Ellis, Attorneys, in Jonesboro, Arkansas.
for $3.50 payable to the

George W. Good, ’23, is occupied as commercial
ALUMNI, INCORPORATED,

artist, with a studio in Winchester, Virginia.
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

 

found in the Alumni Directory.

French R. McKnight, ex ’23, is now associated with
his father in the Veneer business in Helena, Arkansas.

Bill Gibbons, ex ’24, is engaged in making paper for
the West Virginia Pulp Mills, in Martinsburg, West
Virginia.

Otis Howe, ’24, is engaged in the lumber business
with the Howe Lumber Company in Wabash,
THE ALUMNI DIRECTORY | 4:00.

Clark W. Rabb, ex ’24, is married and living in
500 pages Helena, Arkansas, where he is busily engaged in the
insurance business.

Frank W. Reeves, ex ’24, who lives in Memphis,
Tennessee, has been employed as farm overseer at
Burns, Arkansas.

John C. Anderson, ’25, is with the First National

’ Bank, founded by his grandfather, in Bristol, Virginia.
COBB S PRESSIN G SHOP John King, ’25, has recently entered the insurance
business in Bristol, Virginia.

Chal Owen, ex ’25, is assistant City Ticket Agent in
Bristol, Virginia.

Marshall Amos Mott, ex ’26, is now associated with
- the Federated Charities of Boston, undertaking to
PRESSING DYEING place back into industry men who are physically
handicapped. He states that the employment situation
in New England is alarming for this time of year,

 

Dry Cleaning

 

 

despite the so-called boom of prosperity.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

James H. Alexander, ex ’26, is with the Georgia
Railroad Bank, Augusta, Georgia.

Bob Smith is in the wholesale Oil and Gas field, in
Bristol, Virginia.

Fred Dulaney
Virginia.

is in the coal business in Bristol,

Greet “Old Mike” on the campus during HOME
COMING DAY. He will be here—will you? No-
vember 7th, Lexington, annual meeting of Alumni, In-

Alumni Luncheon; Dr. George H.
Denny; The Virginia Game! An all star

corporated ;
(“Mike”’)
bill.

SSS ee

FRATERNITY HOUSE MANAGERS

Phi Epsilon Pi—Ralph Masinter.
Sigma Phi Epsilon—R. B. Thomas.
7eta Beta Tau—I. Lebow, C. A. Schloss.
Delta Tau Delta—L. L. Edgerton.
Alpha Chi Rho—R. W. Coles.

Phi Gamma Delta—Eldred P. Barker.
Phi Kappa Sigma—Tom Stearnes.
Beta Theta Pi—Rhea Whitley.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—Ed Shoup.

Pi Kappa Alpha—N. W. Burris.
Alpha Tau Omega—Tom Seehorn.
Kappa Alpha—L. J. Rauber.

Lambda Chi Alpha—C. H. Hamilton.
Pi Kappa Phi—House Manager.
Sigma Chi—Robert Taylor, Jr.

Phi Delta Theta—House Manager.
Phi Kappa Psi—Fanning Hearon.
Kappa Sigma—J. D. Mayhew.

Sigma Nu—H. R. Sullivan.

Arcades Club—Alfred Taylor.

35

 

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

 

(ollege & School

Printers & Stationers

Fine Stationery and Engraving
Office Equipment and Supplies
College Publications

Fraternity Publications

We would appreciate your inquiries which will
receive our prompt and careful attention

INDIAN PRESS

SURBER-ARUNDAIE ©OMPANY

PUBLISHERS: PRINTERS STATIONERS
CHARLOTTESVILLE --: VIRGINIA

 

 

C. M. LAMBERT, Pres. and Treas. S. K. LAMBERT, Sec’y

Lambert Manufacturing Co.

Contractors for Buildings

All Kinds WAYNESBORO, VA.

Building Material
MILLWORK CONTRACTORS
for the
NEW BETA HOUSE and
GRAHAM DORMITORY

 

 

ORDER YOUR COPY NOW!
The Alumni Directory—Sept. 15—$3.50
The Alumni Magazine—one year—$2.00

Check or money order payable to the
Alumni, Inc., should be sent to Drawer 897,
Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

 

 

HOME-COMING
DAY |

Saturday, November 7th

 

THE VIRGINIA GAME

Get up a party of Alumni and charter
a special pullman.

Drive your own car—the roads are good.

Come by train a few days ahead of time.

But Come Some Way/

 

FOR INFORMATION WRITE

THE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

Verbon E. Kemp, Secretary, Drawer 897
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

