 

 

E.

P. DAVIS, President Cc. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

General Headquarters for W. and L. Men

School Supplies, Books, Stationery, Athletic Goods, Haberdashery
Alumni Are Always Welcome

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

 

THE ALILUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

E. C. Carrrey, President VerRBON FE. Kemp, Editor
*. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer I. V. Davies, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PAGE PAGE
Auto Routes to Lexington—Map : noite Bus Schedules—The Faculty 18
Alumni Attractions at Finals 5 Sam Glasgow, ’03 19
Jack io Washington and Lee—Poem 6 Editorial 20
Alumni Program for Finals... ae The President’s Page 21
Baseball Team .... 7 H. B. Graybill, ’02 22
DeHart Resigns .. a C. S. Nichols, 05 22
What Students Spend  ........ccccccccocscccccecees 8 Malcolm Campbell, ’05 23
Rescue of Floyd Colllins.............ccccrsccossssesssseseeressesescsssssscssssssereees 10 Career of Russian Prince 24
H. T. Carmichael, 99, Humanitarian ‘ 11 W. T. Hanzsche, 713 25
The Relief. Of BRIG e i OU ctecccciccocesccciccalescsnscotqoescccndbtbeccccsccoess 12 Student Orchestra to Take European Tour... 26
The First Curve Ball... is Ec ccccceps 12 Random Gleanings 26
Julius Kruttschnitt, ’73, Retires 13 Alumni Directory Ready 27
Alumni Elected to Phi Beta Kappa 14 Wedding Bells 27
Fraternity. AVeragles - ..<cscccccsscsssvevsctectsbectsossopandsnbssescseseccesoctqnsesscoes 14 War Letters of Clovis Moomaw, ‘16 oe
Senator Robert L. Owen, ’77, Retires 15 Death Notices 30
Colonel E. H. Colston, 67, Makes Worthy Contribution.. 16 Personals 32
Alumnus in League of Nations Service 17

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50
(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

a )

 
 
 
 

To Toledo 4 To Sandusky 4 To Cleveland \ {To Erie} To Buffalo To Elmira \ }To Binghamton = A\
Ss
t

 
  
   
  
      
     
 
    
  
  

 
        
     

 
 

  
 
 

 

  

    

 

1e.7_S
~— ; Wilkesbarrey 5
. b> Fostoria © Akron | A! new F 2
indlay 4 He ' o a
°- fi Bucyrus © ; A Beaver 7 33
22 O >. Falls 2
I= § = :
8 a Lebanon {Reading Seg
“4 Hollidaysburg o ° =
Johnstown Philag elp Ay =
pplancaster — SlaN #2
(Lamdel
© FA, ~

OF

 

  

‘antic &

 

& St.Louis

i,
A

Cincinnati

 

  
    
 
   
  

 

Front Royal a
° 0
ine $1
Wash ps

6 Sperryville

To Richmond, indianapolis {

 

 
 

tTo Louisville

Waynesboro
s se

Charlottesville

To Danville t
& Louisville

     
    
 
     
    
   
      
 

Winsto,,
North “Sy 7,
Withesbore x

     

   

; ".
Greengile Eranbery

‘ ®D N é
“ Knoxville Hot Springs N

  

  
  
 
 
 

Lenoir City Morganton

# Pd , iD
8 "a Waynesville 1
2
3 i
S '
°° |e x Charlotte Pinehurst \g

Monroe Aberdeen

To Montgomery \ 7 To Birmingham

Milledgeville

 

@)

MaconG EORGIA

 

Main Through Routes
to Neighboring States

Scale of Miles
0 20 40 60
(tee —— ted ——— toed

Perry &

 

 

 

 

© GOCotnc..N.Y

 

TosValdosta \ To Waycross
d@ Lake City, Fla. & Jacksonville, Fla.

1 To Brunswick

 

COURTESY THE STANDARD OIL CO. OF N. J.
Auto Routes to LEXINGTON

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

VoL. |

MAY 1925

No. 4

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

Alumni Attractions at Finals

The Finals program this year offers many attrac-
tions to returning alumni with a few new features as
added incentives. A special program has_ been ar-
ranged for the wives of alumni and the parents of stu-
dents. The president of Finals, George 5. Wilson,
Ir., and the Finals Committee have been particularly
cooperative in effecting a more elaborate alumni pro-
gram than heretofore.

While accommodations in Lexington have always
been notoriously scarce during Finals, every provi-
sion is being made «for the comfortable housing of re-
turning alumni and their families. Rooms in Lee’s
Dormitory will be available for unattached alumni.
The old Phi Kappa Sigma house just across from the
Episcopal Church will be opened as Alumni Head-
quarters during Finals and will afford additional ac-

commodation. In addition to the fraternity houses,

the Dutch Inn and the Lexington Hotel, accommoda-*

tions may be had upon reservation in some of the

homes of Lexington. ‘Those wishing aid in securing ~

reservations should communicate with the Alumni Sec-
retary at once.

Dr. Peter Ainslie, pastor of the Christian Temple,
saltimore, Maryland, will deliver the baccalaureate
sermon at the Lee Chapel Sunday, June seventh. Dr.
Ainslie is a speaker of broad experience and a deep
student of world affairs. He has long been connected
with world church movements under the Carnegie
Foundation and is considered one of the world’s au-
thorities on church union and world alliance.

The Sunday afternoon vesper service will be con-
ducted by Dr. J. W. Claudy, ’09, of Pittsburgh, under
the auspices of the Y. M. C. A. on the campus lawn.

While a definite answer has not yet been received
from the invitation extended to Judge .E. H. Gary
to deliver the commencement address in the Chapel
Tuesday morning, it is thought that he may be safely
counted upon for that occasion. In case Judge Gary
finds it impossible to attend, the invitation will be ex-
tended to some other prominent student of inter-
national affairs.

The social program will be featured by an automo-
bile drive through Goshen Pass Monday, June eighth;
a tea for the visiting ladies at the W. and L,. Library,
Tuesday afternoon, June ninth, and the Alumni Ball
Monday evening, June eighth. The Honorable John
W. Davis, ’95, has been invited to lead the alumni
figure. One feature of the ball will be the arrange-
ment of tables around the running track of the gym-
nasium for bridge or 4 la carte supper service during

 

Dr. Peter AINSLIE, BACCALAUREATE SPEAKER

 

 

the dances. These tables will be strictly reserved for
alumni and parents of students during that evening.

Of particular interest will be the reunion meetings
of the classes of ’20, ’15, 10, ’05, ’00, ’95, ’90, ’85, ’80
and ’75 which will be held at alumni headquarters
Monday and ‘Tuesday. In addition to the regular
alumni buffet luncheon given by the University Mon-
day at noon, there will be an alumni smoker at the
University Dining Hall Tuesday evening at seven
o'clock. Eddie Parks Davis will act as toastmaster on
that occasion.

Alumni will be met at the trains by reception com-
mittees from the Lexington Alumni Association and
the student body. They will be conducted in automo-
biles to the quarters reserved in advance for them. A
scenic drive through Goshen Pass and the beauty spots
of the Blue Ridge has been arranged for alumni and
their families Monday afternoon, June eighth.

On the following page is given the complete pro-
gram, tabulated for ready reference.

Although at the time the MAGAZINE goes to press it
is too early to estimate the number of alumni who will
be in attendance, letters are coming in daily from men
who are planning the journey to Lexington and there
is every indication that a representative group from
each class will be on the campus June 5-9.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

BACK TO WASHINGTON AND LEE
(With the usual apologies to R. K.)

By the banks of old North River, winding lazy round
the hill

To the dear old college campus, my thoughts are
turning still;

For the college bells are calling and I know they say
to me,

“Come you back, you old alumnus, back to Washing-
ton and Lee.” .

Back to Washington and Lee

To the dear old Varsitee,

Can’t you hear the students cheering and the old songs
ringing free?

Back at Washington and Lee,

That is where you'll want to be,

When the Finals are beginning and the Old Grads
call for thee.

"Tho my college days are over many, many years ago,

Yet my heart will beat the faster, and my blood the
warmer flow,

When a thought of Alma Mater comes to thrill me
through and through

Or I see again the colors of the dear old White and
Blue.

Oh, our hearts are ever true,

And we’re worthy sons to you,

Come, boys, let’s give a cheer

For the dear old White and Blue.

Back at Washington and Lee

That is where you'll want to be,

When the Finals are beginning and the Old Grads
call for thee.

Ship me back to old Virginia, where the summer skies
are blue,

Where the gods walk on the hilltops in the sunset’s
rosy hue,

For I’ve heard their voices calling and it’s there that
I would be,

In the shadows of the mountains, back at Washing-
ton and Lee.

For Washington and Lee,

For the dear old Varsitee

We will sound the fame of her fair name from moun-
_tainside to sea.

Back at Washington and Lee,

That is where you'll want to be,

When the Finals are beginning and the Old Grads

call for thee.

IN ORDER OF APPEARANCE

Fripay, JUNE 5

Registration at Alumni Headquarters, old
Phi Kappa Sigma house.

9 P. M. Inter-Fraternity Dance—Gymnasium.
SATURDAY, JUNE 6

Registration at Alumni Headquarters.

10 A. M. P. A. N.—White Friar Dansant—Gym-
nasium.

4 P. M. Informal Reception and Open House at
Alumni Headquarters.

6 P. M. Third Crew Boat Races.
9 P. M. Sigma German—Gymnasium,

SUNDAY, JUNE 7

11 A. M. Baccalaureate Sermon by Dr. Peter Ainslie
of Baltimore, Maryland.

5 P. M. Sacred Song Service on Campus.

6 P. M. Vesper Service Led by Dr. J. W. Claudy,
09, of Pittsburgh.

ALUMNI DAY. Monpay, June 8

10:30 A. M. Meeting of Alumni, Incorporated, Judge
EK. C. Caffrey, presiding. |
12 M. Band Concert on Lawn.
1 P. M. Buffet Luncheon to Alumni on Lawn.
3 P. M. Two Hour Drive through Goshen Pass and
Environs for Visiting Ladies.
Senior Class Meeting for Organization.
Class Reunions, ’00, ’05, 10, 715, ’20 and
25, at Alumni Headquarters.
Varsity-Alumni Baseball Game.

6 P. M. Second Crew Boat Race.

9 P. M. Reception by President and Mrs. Henry
Louis Smith to Seniors, Alumni, and Vis-
itors.

10 P. M. Senior-Alumni Ball and Cabaret.

TuEspay, JUNE 9

10:45 A. M. Procession of ‘Trustees, Faculty and
Graduates,
Academic Costume.

11 A. M. Commencement Exercises—Commencement
Address ; Valedictory Address.

3 P. M. Alumni Reunions—Classes ’75, ’80, ’85, ’90,
and ’95, at Alumni Headquarters.

4 P. M. Tea for Visiting Ladies at Library.
6 P. M. First Crew Boat Race.

7 P. M. Smoker for Alumni—Dining Hall. E. P.
Davis, ‘Toastmaster,

10 P. M. Final Ball.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DeHart Resigns

The rumor of Jimmy DeHart’s resignation which
has been whispered on the campus for several weeks,
was confirmed April eighteenth when the Athletic
Council met and elected “Pat Herron, former assistant
coach to “Pop” Warner at the University of Pitts-
burgh, to succeed DeHart.

Coach DeHart is a universal favorite on the campus
and it is with extreme regret that his departure is an-
nounced. He plans to stay at W. and L. until after
the 1925 football season when he will assume his new
duties as athletic director and football coach at Duke
University. Much as all concerned would have liked
to keep DeHart for the Blue and White team, Duke
University made such an excellent offer that Wash-
ington and Lee could not afford to equal it nor De-
Hart to reject it.

While he was head coach of football here, “Jimmy”
turned out some of the best teams that have ever
represented Washington and Lee on a gridiron.

When Herron takes DeHart’s place next spring,
the same system that has been in vogue here for the
past three years will still be used. DeHart and Herron
played football together on the Pitt eleven under the
coaching of “Pop” Warner and both use the Warner
system in their coaching tactics. Herron played end
while at the University of Pittsburgh and was se-
lected by Walter Camp on his all-American football

 

James DeHarr

 

 

eleven. DeHart was one of the greatest athletes Pitt
has ever had, being a four-letter man, and was also
an All-American.

 

 

Baseball Team

Under the able tutelage of Dick Smith, °15, the
Washington and Lee ball tossers have completed the
first half or their schedule with but few scars. The
invasion of northern teams early in the season was met
and turned back with a 50-50 split, the Generals los-
ing one game each to Cornell and Pennsylvania and
winning handily from Bucknell and Cornell.

The first half of the season has been featured by
the brilliant work of the Generals’ three pitching aces,
Captain Gus Lindburg, Perry, and Maben. Also the
consistent work of Seehorn, Aylmer and Dawson both
at bat and in the field has been an outstanding feature
in the General’s play. Captain Lindburg has exhib-
ited an unusual mastery in the pitchers’ box, making
his best record thus far by turning the hard hitting
Cornell Club back with but one hit in the best played
game of the season.

Bo McMillan, of football fame, has borne the brunt
of the work behind the plate with rare skill and judg-
ment. Tips Gwaltney has played his usual stellar
game in the center garden while Gus Lindburg, alter-
nating from the pitchers’ box to right field has fea-
tured in the bombardment of. base hits in every game
in which he appeared.

Off to Good Start

The record of the team thus far with the schedule
of remaining games is shown below:

March 31—Roanoke, 3; W. and L., 7 at Lexington.

April 3—Lynchburg, 0; W. and L., 16 at Lexington.

April 8—Cornell, 6; W. and L., 4 at Lexington.

April 9—Cornell, 1; W. and L., 4 at Lexington.

April 11—U. of Penn., 5; W. and L., 3 at Lexing-
ton.

April 13—Bucknell, 3; W. and L., 10 at Lexington.

April 16—U. N. C., 5; W. and L., 2 at Lexington.

April 20—V. P. I., 1; W. and L., 7 at Lexington.

April 24—Virginia, 4; W. and L., 5 at Lexington.

April 27—V. P. I. at Blacksburg.

April 30—N. C. State at Lexington.

May 2—Virginia at Charlottesville.

May 4—Davidson at Lexington.

May 5—Emory and Henry at Lexington.

May 8—Birmingham Southern at Lexington.

May 11—New York U. at New York.

May 12—Seton Hall at South Orange, N. J.

May 13—Fordham at New York.

May 14—Georgetown at Washington.

May 15—Maryland at College Park.

May 16—Navy at Annapolis,

 

8. THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

What Students Spend

By W. H. Cuuvertius, ’25

What do students spend at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity? This is a question to which everybody will
give a different answer. Some people estimate that
a student spends seven to eight hundred dollars a year.
Others estimate that a student expends over a thou-
sand dollars. Furthermore others estimate a student
expends between fifteen hundred and two thousand
dollars. Of course each estimator arrives at his conclu-
sion using his own expenditures as a basis. In the
face of all this indefiniteness I thought I would try to
find out approximately the amount the average stu-
dent expends at Washington and Lee University.

The method used to secure this information is called
in statistics the “Sampling” plan. This was accom-
plished by preparing an elaborate questionnaire. This
questionnaire was presented at a student assembly.
The students were asked to fill in the questionnaire
and to hand it in unsigned. Two hundred and fifty-

eight of them were returned which represents thirty-one
per cent. of the student body. ‘The student enrollment
at that time was eight hundred and thirty-two. This
was a sufficient number to make a fairly accurate esti-
mate of the whole student body as the questionnaires
returned were representative of the group. For in-
stance, one hundred and forty of them were from fra-
ternity men and one hundred and eighteen were from
non-fraternity men. Besides each school and the
classes within each school were well represented.

Bear in mind that this is an analysis of the student
purchases during the nine months in Lexington and it
does not take into consideration the purchases made in
the student’s home town or nearby towns. However, -
it does take account of the purchases from the out-
of-town representatives. One will find here a sum-
mary of the results.

A SUMMARY OF STUDENT PURCHASES IN LEXINGTON

Item Total per year
for 832 Students
LS, . clk. gE clea uw ew see Wi $217,277.42
kM eee eeet 71,349.78
CE Sic om eo 166,400.00
ee. | ee ek Bo 69,490.32
ee: See, SoC uee wr, 54 hd seeks 19,880.65
EE; . We a suck os vias ose cassie 11,329.03
EES haa. s  bG oc eke shies owe con 8,404.84
iro, a 10,149.90
I i Me. , Wis f 0, o's win babe oie 7,213.71
Ne ne eg 6,167.42
ee. a ae 3,262.90
ESS Fc te vip CAVE Rabe eee cae dece 1,003.23
EES 3.159. Bele WG Viviaid » Fine aisles 7,193.39
MRT MOCUAENG ois. cb iec k's oy > Under oa 47,145.48
Miscellaneous entertainment (dancing, din-
UMN, ns nv np cltesmednesce 24,902.42
IS ss sn, . sae cw ke vs ve 25,380.68
A 5,383.06
EE 5. OWES « o Chk oles ie dasa boys 23,545.10
NS ie ee as ew win bo 20,222.74
A A ng 3,588.39
SE MERA ed eo, wo ek 16,162.26
I VCS 's .. Dah. cde ecede cee 3,752.42
EM aes oe h bs vv UE s wo Pea so 6,712.26
CN RLS ees ae, | ie eel 11,894.51
TE ee alg 4,100.81
a Ste wus 8,370.00
I - 15,841.45
Clothes Cleaning and Pressing .......... 18,111.77
Pet GS As es i Sh iaea kk cee ee ls 4,406.45

rn) SUNNOR Mas shh. bie's ales Ctaldlp es 5,937.03
Gemttipution to Y. M: C.A: ,. isis. sc.

Number of Items Average Cost Average per

per student Per Item year per student
9 $29.02 $261.15
9 9,53 85.76
1 200.00 200.00
1.7 48.08 ° 83.52.
aa 43.40 23.89
1.4 9.78 13.59
+ 7 is 10.10
8.4 1.35 12.20
6.7 1.29 8.66
hie 6.17 7.41
2.6 LSS 3.92
S 3.78 1.20
6 13.43 8.64

6.30 per month 56.67

3.32 per month 29.93
es 30.51
ee. 6.47
3.14 per month 28.30
2.70 per month 24.31
48 per month 4.32
2.16 per month 19.43
50 per month 4.51
90 per month 8.07
159 per month 14.30
.55 per month 4.93
1.12 per month 10.06
2.12 per month 19.04
2.42 per month 21.79
en 5.30
7.14

2.16

$1,017.25

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

As you will notice the students spend during the
nine months in Lexington over $800,000.00. You will
also notice that the average student expends about
$1,017.00. Please understand, however, that this 1s
the average which means that just as many are below
the average as above it. It is, indeed, possible for
one to attend Washington and Lee University for less
than this amount but, as stated above, these figures
show only the mean.

There is to be added to this average the amount ex-
pended for fraternity dues, initiation fees and travel-
ing expenses to and from home to college. The sta-
tistics are not complete at the present time to secure
the average for these items.

The total amount for tuition is a little high due to
the fact that many students are here on scholarships.
At the present time I cannot secure definite data and
- it is necessary to use this amount as a working basis.
However, the tuition fee of $200.00 is correct.

One astounding fact is that over $47,000.00 is spent
on week-end trips. This indicates that the average
student expends over $56.00 a year on this item, or
over $6.00 a month. Of course there are many stu-
dents who spend more than this amount and there are
others who never take a week-end trip. Therefore,
it is necessary to interpret all these averages rationally.

Gloves are still being bought by students but not in
very great quantities. A little over a thousand dollars
is spent on this item a year. Each student buys a pair
of gloves every three years at an average cost of $3.79.

Moving pictures are still well attended by the stu-
dents. The total expenditure, including road shows,
being almost $24,000.00. Thus the average student ex-
pends for this item $28.63 a year or about $3.18 a
month. In other words the average student attends
about seven shows a month.

Perhaps it is not proper to include the expenses of
auto supplies to the average. But in order to work
out all the statistics on the same basis it is best to give
this average with an explanation. As given in the
summary the average expenditure per student for auto
supplies is $7.63 a year. I estimate, using the ques-
tionnaire as a basis, there are sixty-nine students who
have automobiles, or at least have some reason for
purchasing auto supplies. Its costs each of these users
an average of $86.04 a year to run their car, or $9.56
a month,

In the catalogue of Washington College for the year
1848-49 I noticed an item in regards to expenses of
students. It can be included in this article as a kind
of comparison. It is not an equal comparison but nev-
ertheless interesting. For instance,—

“The treasurer’s bill, per annum, is—Tuition $30.00,
Room rent $4.00, Deposit $8.00, Matriculation fee
$2.00. Total $44.00, always payable in advance.

“Boarding can be had in private families, for from

 

W. H. Cruvertus, 725

 

 

$5.00 to $8.50 per month, payable in advance—mak-
ing $50.00 or $85.00 per annum. Washing $1.00 per
month, fuel and light about $12.00, bed (if rented)
about $7.00. ‘Thus the highest necessary cost is $158.
And the lower style of boarding, (which, though plain,
is very substantial and satisfactory), reduces the cost
to $123.00.

“Let all parents and guardians bear in mind the cor-
rupting influence of pocket money. A pocket full of
money and a head full of sense, are rarely, if ever,
found together in Colleges.”

Under present conditions one can observe that it
requires over $600.00 for necessary expenses as shown
by the following summary :—

Board (6) scisss «eee. a eee $261.15
Room <2, ....0s sues See ee.« be ecm 85.76
ThHilioe 3. vices Hi eee Ge ke 200.00
School Books and supplies ......... 36.97
LAUnETY*, 6 Reis So ees souk «eee 28.30

TL ORBls sat ecatt kas ke $612.18

Add to this the amount spent for clothing and there
will be left an amount between three and four hun-
dred dollars which can be controlled by the individual
habits of the student himself.

In the face of this rather high average it is inter-
esting to note that about 277 students are paying all
or part of their expenses. They are doing this by
either working during the summer months or by work-
ing at college during their spare time.

One should take all the facts brought out in this

analysis in a rational manner and _ should not draw un-
warranted conclusions from the statistics.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Sketch of the Attempted Rescue of Floyd Collins

By H. T. CARMICHAEL, ’99,

We heard of Floyd Collins’ imprisonment through
the Courier-Journal at seven P. M. Monday, Feb-
ruary second. I immediately sent a rescuing party
of ten men in charge of Master Mechanic T. A.
Smith with small tools on launch via Mammoth
Cave to the scene thirty miles away. These men ren-
dered service at midnight and at 5:30 reported that
Collins was in a very serious predicament, that chaos
and confusion prevailed and that a leader was badly
needed.

I sent another party of ten men with further equip-
ment at 7 A. M. February third and myself left at
nine with more equipment. We arrived at Sand Cave
at 1 P. M. and immediately undertook to systematize
rescuing parties. Collins was wedged tightly between
two rocks and held prisoner by several boulders
around feet and legs, on top of which was a quantity
of loose rock up to his neck. Food was given him
until early Wednesday morning, February fourth,
and progress of scraping out rock from around his
body was reported and when at last one leader re-
ported being able to reach down as far as his knees,
every one was considerably encouraged. However, a
disastrous slip occurred at about 3 A. M. Wednesday
the fourth, about 15 feet from Collins, which almost
completely cut him off from outside help.

Most of Wednesday was spent in an attempt to
clean out and timber this slide and other weak points
in the hold, but by midnight it was apparent that, due
to the soft and treacherous character of the material
both in roof, floor and sides of the slide, it was not
then and never would be humanly possible to reach
Collins again by that route. This fact was definitely
agreed on by all concerned, including experts and
miners from various parts of the country. There-
fore, as a last resort, the best possible survey of the
hole was made, both as to alignment and levels, and
the sinking of a shaft was decided on. It was decided
to drive the shaft ten feet clear of Collins to a depth
which would permit his being reached from below.

The shaft was started at 1:30 P. M. on the fifth
with a few unskilled men, picks, shovels and wheel-
barrows. Necessary timber was immediately pro-
cured from points within a radius of forty miles,
derrick timbers cut locally and derrick irons made in
various nearby country blacksmith shops, a bucket
made from a gasoline drum, electric lights, air com-
pressors, field hospital, mess hall and quarters for
200 men, etc., dump trestle built and 150 feet of track
laid with 2x4 timber as rail, a gasoline hoist was
brought that day from Nashville, dump cars trucked
from Bowling Green, a 2500 square foot tarpaulin
for shelter over shaft was brought in two pieces from

Louisville and Nashville, rubber outfits for the men
procured, competent men found for each respective
job and within twenty-four hours from the time that
the sinking of the shaft was decided on, the work at
hand was equipped with modern machinery and skill-
ful men working for short periods, and before worn
out were relieved by men equally as good.

Material encountered from the very beginning con-
sisted of large boulders embedded in soft, wet mud,
and breakage amounted to almost as much as excava-
tion. In spite of the fact that about two-thirds of
the excavation was rock, only five ounces of dynamite
were used in the entire shaft and this within 15 feet
of the surface.

The material was made even more treacherous
than it normally was by heavy rains and snow which
fell during the work, although great care was exer-
cised to concentrate all water by carrying it through
galvanized iron gutters to a barrel next to gasoline
pump, which was kept in operation constantly to
pump water beyond the working zone. When a
depth of 45 feet was reached in the shaft, material
became more and more rotten. At 52 feet cave-ins
occurred on all sides for a height of 20 feet or more.

The situation was critical and it was decided at
once to swing the shaft timber with cables suspended
from two 25 foot logs across the top of the shaft.
This was done and it was decided impracticable to
sink the shaft further on account of its strained con-
dition and the fact that it was known from core drill
tests that immediately under the three foot ledge re-
ferred to above there were seven feet of mud forma-
tion. The situation was indeed dark and though we
knew to a nicety Collins’ location, the question was
how to reach him through such material.

But one practical route was left and that was in
the lower left hand corner facing the cave entrance,
driving a small heading at right angles to the shaft
wall a few feet, gradually descending on a slight
angle, keeping clear of the treacherous slides and
turning about 180 degrees in the first 10 feet of the
heading, it was finally decided to break through the
ledge we were following and then attempt to find the
heading leading to Collins.

In five feet after breaking through this ledge we
came point blank into the original cavern at the lower
end of the slide which had cut us off from Collins,
about ten feet from him and six feet above. Those
who had previously seen Collins’ trap and now looked
at it stated that a movement of the ground since their
last visit had been such as to make the place almost

 

(Continued on page 16)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 1}

H. T. Carmichael, 99 --- Humanitarian

Never has the fate of one unknown and obscure
human being caught the interest and sympathy of a
whole nation as did the entombment of Floyd Collins
at Sand Cave, Kentucky. The very spirit of human
brotherhood was plumbed and proven in the heroic
attempts to rescue this Kentucky mountaineer from
his rock-barred tomb.

Calmly and tirelessly directing the rescue work
stood the figure of H. T. Carmichael, ’99, the in-
carnation of that spirit of human brotherhood—a
spirit reflected in every move of the straining workers

 

below. Mr. Carmichael’s account of the work at
Sand Cave is told in the terse, graphic sentences of
an engineer on the opposite page.

An editorial in the Nashville Banner said:

“A month ago the friends of H. T. Carmichael of
Kyrock, Kentucky, were, to all intents and purposes,
limited to the number of individuals who had come
in personal contact with him in his career as a suc-
cessful engineer. Then there came to him a call to
lend a hand in the rescue of a man he did not know,
trapped in a crumbling passageway in the cave
country. It was not long before Carmichael of
Kyrock was in command. The crews of volunteer
workers quickly learned to respect his leadership
even though the way led into the tottering depths of
a rotten hillside.”

A news report in the
Courier-Journal said:

“Directing and planning continuously day and
night, driving brain and body almost to the snapping
point, yet never flustered, Mr. Carmichael moved
back and forth through the scene, always leaving re-
assurance in his wake where before there had been
doubt and often almost despair.

“Tt was an eloquent picture of service for others,
thrown for a brief period by the hand of providence
perhaps upon the screen of everyday life, for what

Louisville (Kentucky )

is supposed to be a world run mad with selfish and
mercenary impulses, and the world rose to the picture
with uncovered heads and beating hearts.

“If your faith in humanity ever falters,’ Mr.
Carmichael told Lee Collins when the task of the
shaft-diggers was ended, ‘just remember that there
are those whose faith extends to all parts of the
earth.’ ”’

The Cleveland (Ohio) Plain Dealer said:

“We shall remember Carmichael, the engineer.
He knew where to sink the shaft, he knew how to
sink it. He knew how to keep the men intelligently
employed. He spared himself not at all, but worked
With them and encouraged them by example as well
as by skillful direction. Carmichael will not be for-
gotten.”

 

H. Sr. Georck TucKER CARMICHAEL, ’99

 

 

of Mr.

Thus the world acclaimed the efforts
Carmichael and his men.

Harry Tucker Carmichael is the grandson of the
Honorable John Randolph Tucker, former dean of
the Washington and Lee law school, and the nephew
of the Honorable Harry St. George Tucker, ’76
Congressman from Virginia. He lived in Lexington
with his parents, Captain and Mrs. John Carmichael,

until his graduation from the engineering school of
W. and L. in 1890. |

Since graduation his life has been that of his pro-
fession, living from pillar to post in various rail-
road construction camps until 1920 when he became
general superintendent for the Kentucky Rock
Asphalt Company at Kyrock, Kentucky. As engineer
in charge of railroad construction and location he was
active in building the lines of the B. and O. Railway,
the C. and O., the Western Maryland, and the C. C.
and O. During the war he superintended the con-
struction and grading of eight miles of track at the
Old Hickory powder plant. The line was ready for
operation in thirty days, which is considered a world’s
record for such work.

Mr. Carmichael is a member of the Kappa Alpha
fraternity, the B. P. O. E., the Kentucky Academy
of Science, and a fellow of the Royal Society for the
Encouragement of Arts, Manufacture and Com-
merce, London, England.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE RELIEF OF NOME
By W. H. Taytor, ’76

Over the bleakness of winter,

Over the beautiful snow,

Right in the teeth of the North wind,
Boldly the brave dogs go.

The driver sits calmly behind them,
Facing the North wind’s push,
Striving ever and onward,

Crying to his brave dogs “Mush!”

Frozen his face and his fingers,
No stopping his daring or deed;
Yonder lies Nome and her sorrow
Bending in pitiful need.

Over the bleakness of winter,
Over the dazzling snow,

Right in the teeth of the North wind,
Hopeth the radio.

Over the bleakness of winter,

Over the dreadful snow,

Right in the teeth of the North wind,
The prayers. of a nation go.

For Nome and all her people,
For sorrowing woman and man,
For the sorely stricken children,
For the love of man for man.

Glory—the dog that pulleth,
Glory—the man that drives,
Glory—to God in the highest,
‘Glory—that love yet thrives.

TRACK RECORDS BROKEN

At the final event of the hexathalon, which was held
between the various fraternities and other groups on
the campus, Bean and Howard broke records of sev-
eral years standing.

Bean bettered the record in the quarter mile of R. C.
Till, made in 1916, by a fourth of a second. Lane
Howard negotiated two miles in 10 min. 20-4/5 sec.,
thus beating the record established in 1921 by Clifford
Smith by 16 seconds. This is a remarkable feat con-
sidering the condition of the track, which is not banked.
It is seldom that any record in which there is much
competition is broken by so great a margin as 16 sec-
onds.

THE FIRST CURVE BALL IN COLLEGE
ATHLETICS

By W. M. McE twee, ’79.

It was nearly fifty years ago, if my memory is
correct, that the curve ball was first used by a pitcher.

The Mutuals of New York came to Louisville for
a game with the Louisville Amateurs in the summer
of 1876. The Amateurs were badly defeated and the
cause of the defeat was attributed to the excellent
pitching of Matthews, who used the curve ball. Be-
fore Matthews left the city our local pitcher had
learned from him the art of pitching the curve ball
and during the summer he became quite expert and
very effective in the use of it.

My first experience in batting against a curve
pitcher was during this summer of 1876, and in 1877
there were many boys pitching the curve ball in
Louisville. Among the number was George A. Sykes
of Louisville, who had spent his first college year at
Washington and Lee. When he returned to college
in the fall of 1877 he was an expert as a pitcher, and
during the winter and early spring he was seen daily,
practicing with the ball. Four of the members of
our team of 1878 were boys from Louisville, and we >
were all familiar with curve pitching having played
ball in Louisville during the summer of 1877. I had
pitched as well as caught the curve ball that summer
and at that time we did not use the catcher’s mitt, the
mask, nor a protection of any kind. We had a well-
balanced team that year—Bullitt of Louisville was
our captain and he selected the team. Sykes was the
pitcher and our record for the season was perfect—_
not a game lost and not a score made against us. We
only had local games with the boys of the town and
with the cadets, except the one great game which will
long be remembered when we defeated the University
of Virginia team on their grounds at Charlottesville
by the score of 12 to O.

The Southern Collegian of June, 1878, says of this
game :

“The University nine played well but the Sykes
curve was too much for them. One of the players
told us confidentially that he changed his mind. five
times after the ball left the pitcher’s hand, as to how
he would strike at it. The curve excited more com-
ment and admiration than either the Keely motor or
phonograph has ever done.

“At night we were tendered an elegant banquet by
the University Club. The charming manner in which
the Virginia team bore their defeat and the good
spirit that prevailed around the festive board is
pleasant to remember.”

Our Professor of Mathematics remarked in the
class room one day that there was no such thing as
a curve ball, but we had no trouble in convincing him
when we placed a board behind a tree and had Sykes
hit the board.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Julius Kruttschnitt, 73, Dean of R. R. Men, Retires

Julius Kruttschnitt, Chairman of the
Executive Committee of the Southern Pa-
cific Company, is an alumnus of Washing-
ton and Lee graduating in 1873 with the
degree of Civil Engineer. He prepared
for college at Professor Romain’s School
in his native city of New Orleans. For
five years after leaving college he taught
at the McDonogli School for boys near
Baltimore where he was the assistant to
the Principal, Colonel William Allan, and
during which time he worked to increase
his engineering knowledge.

His opportunity to realize his boyhood
ambition to become a railroad man came
in 1878 when he entered the services of
the Morgan’s Louisiana and Texas Rail-
road & Steamship Company (now a part
of the Southern Pacific Lines) as Resi-
dent Engineer in charge of construction
work. Completing that work in 1880, he
was retained as Roadmaster, receiving suc-
cessive promotions as Assistant Chief En-
vineer and General Roadmaster, Chief
Engineer and Superintendent, Assistant
General Manager of the Southern Pacific
Lines east of El Paso, and in 1889 was
made General Manager of that system, In
1895 his jurisdiction as General Manager
was extended over the entire Southern Pa-
cific system with headquarters at San
Francisco. ‘This position, with additional
responsibilities as Vice President and later as Assist-
ant to the President, was retained until 1904 when he
was moved to Chicago and was placed in charge of
the operation and maintenance of the combined
Union Pacific and Southern Pacific properties with
title of Director of Maintenance and Operation. On
1913, Mr.
Kruttschnitt was elected to his present position of
Chairman of the Executive Committee of the South-
ern Pacific Company with headquarters at New
York.

The properties of which Mr. Kruttschnitt is the
directing head embrace 14,646 miles of steam and

the separation of those systems in

electrically operated railroad and 88/ miles of electric
interurban lines, together with lines of steamships
operating between New York and New Orleans, New
York and Galveston and Galveston and Tampico,
Mexico. In addition, the Company’s activities in-
clude the development of fuel oil producing prop-
erties in Texas, Louisiana and Mexico, which supply
a large part of the fuel for its locomotives.

Mr. Kruttschnitt is a director and member of the
Executive Committee of the Erie Railroad, Western

 

Junius Krurrscunitt, ’73

 

 

Union Telegraph Company and. United States Mort-
gage and Trust Company. He was a member of the
Railroads’ War Board, is a past President and
present member of the Executive Committee of the
American Railway Association and is a member of
the Executive Committee of the Association of Rail-
way Executives.

While in college both Mr. Kruttschnitt and his
brother, the late E. B. Kruttschnitt, achieved many
honors for high scholarship. His brother remained
at Washington and Lee as assistant professor for
several years after his graduation. Mr. Kruttschnitt
was particularly active in work of the early Alumni
Association and has always ‘manifested a keen in-
terest in the affairs of his Alma Mater.

In commenting upon Mr. Kruttschnitt’s retirement
from active control of the above interests, Colonel
Robert Ewing wrote to the Nashville Tennessean:

“After forty-three years of service in its behalf
Julius Kruttschnitt, at the age of seventy, retired as

 

(Continued on page 38)

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WRESTLERS DEFEAT ARMY IN THRILLER

The Blue and White grapplers ended a glorious sea-
son this year by defeating West Point who had here-
tofore not lost a meet the entire year. However, it
was not a walkaway for the Washington and Lee
wrestlers as every bout but one went overtime. Both
teams forged ahead twice during the meet and the
score was tied three times only to be broken in the
final bout in which Holt won a decision over his man,
thus winning the meet for Washington and Lee.

Walters in the 135-pound class was the only man
who had his own way. He had his West Point op-
ponent on the mat in 3 minutes and 40 seconds.

Both Tilson and Holt won decisions over their men
after they had wrestled overtime, which were the first
bouts their opponents had lost during the season.
Wigglesworth also won his bout on an overtime de-
cision.

Summerson and his Army opponent went 9 min-
utes, Summerson finally losing by a 12-second disad-
vantage.

After the meet was over the team broke training and
had a large banquet at which Tilson was elected captain
for next year. Coach Brett has good reason to be
proud of the aggregation that made such a record this
year.

ENDOWMENT FUND RECORD SET BY
CLASS OF ’25

A successful campaign among the members of the
Senior Class for contributions to the Washington and
Lee Endowment Fund has just been completed and
pledges totalling $1,800 per annum have been raised.
J. N. Thomas was in charge of the campaign.

Heretofore it has been the custom to solicit sub-
scriptions to this fund only from the alumni, and has
been a difficult task due to the fact that the alumni
are scattered. Three years ago the practice of solicit-
ing the Senior class was begun and this has simpli-
fied greatly the matter of securing subscriptions. Each
alumnus is asked for a certain amount to be paid to
the University each year after his graduation. Of
the amount subscribed $2.50 goes toward assisting the
work of the Alumni, Incorporated, and the balance
goes to the University, to be used in any one of several
ways as indicated by the subscriber.

In the campaign which was conducted during the
first week of April 118 men out of approximately 130
who are leaving the University have subscribed to the
fund a total of $1,800 to be paid annually to Wash-
ington and Lee. This is the largest amount that has
ever been subscribed by any class.

ALUMNI ELECTED TO PHI BETA KAPPA

Two alumni, W. Mc. Martin, B.A., 95, of St.
Louis, Missouri, and John Randolph Tucker, Jr., B.A.,
LL.B., 702, of Richmond, Virginia, were honored by
initiation into the Washington and Lee chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa, the national college honorary society for
recognition of high scholastic records or scholarly at-
tainments. The initiation was held at the annual
meeting during March.

Eleven members of the Senior Class were also
initiated at that time, three from the law school and
eight from the departments of arts and sciences. They
were: W. W. Elgin, C. T. Altfather, J. M. Holt, R.
L. Scott, J. C. Roberts, W. L. Woolfolk, C. W.
Hickam, J. R. Leggate, E. A. Ames, Jr., and D. G.
Sidman-Eristoff.

FRATERNITY AVERAGES FOR FIRST

SEMESTER
Pees: Bhi ivsusecccadeanien see 77.71
my UREN COUN ie airy gia Gi ai ba SS 76.56
re See LO... Masten Jide aeons... aursien 75.62
en ot pilots i iii seks ost awe ees 13:38
ee NMED: LORIE © apis criee ik Va taehe sino ee KER 74.85
ees BD... Sade Beets. cc. ee eek 74.43
Se Della es vcadiie acsnt.s <page 74.24
Peete Pisikee ira ied. aes 74.01
ee pha: OMe... dip Shi .6) . és eee 73.07
Me AOU) AOR 2. ip trek Femi us ee RS 72.30
RO - PRO iw bin oe Ra ea RCRA ISA 71.05
EL et es oes. a ga 71.59
Leatida Gir Aloha . gsi sick nviis Fassia sie 71.27
Rae. Sata. :.:... depaeiaes cas Pees en 71.24
Phi: Delaetn...:. ./-esitias «tes tae Laks 70.17
BA GaP iis00 ss oie Ee eee 69.37
IRBDDA sD so do. oo vetanie diets anetaly ciate at 69.22
SIRI Ny oe ono 30s UM I ee es 69.14
Pi Keeeaee,....0. . . eeeah attired. fae 68.69
LocaL
ATCUBEPRD. cas cd so ceutehes 0 able cee aed 80.90

GET YOUR SEATS FOR THE PITT GAME
NOW!!! 3

So enthusiastic are the W. and L. alumni in Pitts-
burgh that they have already met to make plans for
the game September 26 when the Big Blue team will
meet Pitt in a conflict that will be a fitting dedication
for the new Pitt stadium. Arrangements will be per-
fected at a later meeting and the Pittsburgh men give
every assurance that W. and L,. entertainment will
equal W. and L. grid technique.

Further details in the next issue!

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Robert L. Owen, 77, Retires from U. S. Senate

The adjournment of Congress this spring marked
the retirement from public life of Senator Robert L.
Owen, ’77. His retirement comes after eighteen
years of far-reaching and highminded public service
a service at times tensely dramatic, always distinct,
sometimes heroic.

A Virginian by birth, the grandson of Thomas
Chisholm, last of the hereditary chiefs of the old
settler Cherokees, Robert L. Owen entered Washing-
ton and Lee in 1872, taking an M. A. and LL. B.
before settling in what was then the Indian Terri-
tory. He directed the affairs of the Cherokee Schools
for five years and was appointed United States Agent
with entire jurisdiction over the Five Civilized
Tribes in 1889. He established the First National
Bank of Muskogee, Oklahoma, and was its president
for ten years. At the same time he was practicing
law with notable success and conducting a large
cattle ranch.

Political leaders still recall the effect of the maiden
speech of the Junior Senator from the youngest state
on February 25, 1908. On this occasion Senator
Owen tore into the Aldrich bill with a bitterness of
oratory and a clarity of thought that brought the
galleries to its feet and the wily Aldrich to a’ -amble
acknowledgment. Owen’s lone-hand filibuster in
1912 in behalf of the admission of Arizona to state-
hood was described by John Temple Graves as being
the most striking and dramatic that the Senate had
known in twenty years.

Among the most important enactments attributed
to Senator Owen are the Direct Election of Senators,
the Corrupt Practices Act, Cloture in the Senate, the
Federal Reserve Act and the Farm Loan Act. He
was staunch in support of the Workmen’s Compensa-

 

Hon. Ropert L. Owen, 777

 

 

tion Act, the ‘Tariff Commission, the Merchant
Marine, Prohibition and Woman Sufferage.

Refusing the nomination for his fourth term in
the Senate, Owen was one of the outstanding possi-
bilities for the choice of the last Democratic presiden-
tial convention, although in no sense a candidate for the
honor.

In Senator Owen’s retirement the Senate has lost
the services of an expert statesman, a scholar and a
leader—characteristics which distinguished him as a
student at Washington and Lee.

 

 

Halsey of Lynchburg Appointed Judge

Don P. Halsey, ’93, well known attorney of Lynch-
burg, has been appointed by Governor Trinkle to suc-
ceed Judge W. R. Barksdale as judge of the sixth ju-
dicial circuit. Judge Halsey’s appointment was peti-
tioned by the members of the bar of Lynchburg and
has the endorsement of the bar of the entire sixth dis-
trict.

Mr. Halsey has practiced law in Lynchburg ever
since his graduation from Washington and Lee. He
has served his community as commonwealth’s attorney,
state senator, presidential elector and trustee of edu-
cational institutions. His speech as a member of the
commission which presented the statue of Washington
to France in 1910 was commended by the French
newspapers as a scholarly and eloquent address, Dur-
ing the World War Mr. Halsey served in every civil

capacity until July, 1918, when he was accepted as a
Y. M. C. A. worker and was in France for a year with
that organization. He is a prominent member of the
Democratic party and his campaign speeches are very
much in demand.

Judge Halsey will serve until thirty days after the
general assembly convenes.

T. Walter Fred, 12, the “Quack” Fred of college
days passed through Lexington enroute to New York
and called at the alumni office. He is now vice-presi-
dent and general manager of the Davenport Hosiery
Mills of Chattanooga, Tennessee. Walter agrees with
us that the ALUMNI MAGAZINE is a great institu-
tion.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WORK OF THE PRESS CLUB.

One of the most important organizations on the
campus is the University Press Club. This club has
charge of all news sent from the student body and from
the University, as distinctive from the college and fac-
ulty, to the outside world. It is virtually a medium
between the campus and the world at large. The pur-
pose of the organization is two-fold: to send out gen-
eral information which is of interest to outsiders, and,
second, to send out particular information to the home
town newspapers relative to students from that dis-
trict. This work is placed in the hands of the edi-
torial and business staffs of the Press Club. The edi-
torial staff is divided into two departments: athletic,
which has charge of all athletic information available
for publication, and general, which controls all other
news of interest to outsiders. The athletic branch is
conducted this year by Louis S. Joel, assisted by M.
D. Klein, the general editorial branch by W. G. Sale
and several assistants. As a rule, about four or five
articles are sent out each week to the various news-
papers.

SKETCH OF THE ATTEMPTED RESCUE OF
FLOYD COLLINS

(Continued from page 10)

unrecognizable, and Collins was buried to the neck,
apparently dead for a week or more.

It was at once apparent that it was impossible to
extricate the body so that from that moment onward,
we were obsessed with the idea of in some way prov-
ing to the world that we had found Floyd Collins and
that he was dead. This was on Monday night, the
sixteenth. The plan of opening a new window, as it
were, to the left of the old opening was decided on
and A. Maddox was selected for this dangerous task.
After toiling carefully all night in a veritable death
trap, under proper direction, he made the opening
and turned Collins’ face so that those who identified
him could, with comparative safety, get a full-face view
instead of a profile which heretofore had been buried
in the mud. An electric light was placed next to his
face and in the forenoon of February seventeenth he
was fully identified by the coroner, Clay Turner, six
of his boyhood friends, and viewed by at least ten
others including myself and Dr. Hazlett. Funerai
services were held at 2 P. M. on the hill above the
shaft.

The following morning a final inspection was made
and the entrance to Sand Cave sealed with boulder
concrete. And thus we left all that was mortal of
the unfortunate Floyd Collins,

COLONEL EDWARD COLSTON, ’67, MAKES
WORTHY CONTRIBUTION

Each of the five high schools of Berkeley county,
West Virginia, has been presented with a copy of
“The Recollections and Letters of General Robert E.
Lee,” through the generosity of Edward Colston, a na-
tive of that county. An inscription on the inside of
the cover says the books are presented “in honor of
my great commander, whom I followed in war and in
peace, in the hope that as my young friends of Berke-
ley county read his noble letters and his wise counsel
they too may take to heart the duty of self-sacrificing
citizenship and that they too may follow his lead in
that character-building to the teaching of which he de-
voted the last years of his life. Thus they will be-
come co-workers with General Lee. Can they have
higher honor ?”

Edward Colston, 67, the donor, was born at “Hon-
eywood,” Berkeley County. In a recent letter to a
friend he said:

“In regard to any experience of my own throwing
light upon General Lee’s character, I can recall one. I
served in the Army of Northern Virginia from the
beginning of the second battle of Manassas to the bat-
tle of Sailor’s Creek (called by the Confederates ‘High
Bridge’) which was a bloody day. At that time I was
a non-commissioned officer in Company K, Albemarle
Lighthorse, Second Virginia Cavalry, Wickham’s
Brigade, commanded by Colonel T. T. Munford, Fitz-
hugh Lee’s Division, Army of Northern Virginia.
Our regiment charged a body of infantry belonging to
General Ord’s army of the James that had taken a po-
sition in the edge of the woods. I was badly wounded
(I lost my left arm) early in the engagement and
very naturally wanted to reach some place where I
could escape capture. Our rear was occupied by the
enemy and that usual refuge for wounded men was not
available. I saw General Lee some distance off
mounted on old Traveller, looking calm and serene. In
my dilemma, I suggested to my friend and companion
in arms, James E. Tucker, who was helping me off
the field, that he go to General Lee, represent the situ-
ation of his wounded friend and ask advice as to the
direction he should take to avoid falling into the hands
of the enemy. Jimmie soon returned supplied with
full directions which he said the General had given
him with kindliest interest.

“T leave it to you to draw from this little incident
the light it throws upon the character of this great man
and soldier.”

Mr. Colston is now general solicitor at Cincinnati,
Ohio, of the Southern Railway System, but he has not
forgotten the old days at Washington and Lee, he
says. |

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Alumnus in League of Nations Service

Edgar Sydenstricker, 02, has returned from
Geneva, Switzerland, where since the autumn of
1922 he has been engaged in organizing the epidemi-
ological and vital statistical activ ities of the Interna-
tional Health Organization of the League of Nations.
In 1922 he was invited by Sir Eric Drummond,
Secretary General of the League, to become the first
Chief of the Epidemiological Intelligence and Public
Health Statistics Services of the League of Nations
and a one-year leave of absence was granted him by
Secretary Mellon, of the Treasury Department, for
this purpose. His leave was subsequently extended,
and he was invited to accept the position for a further
three-year period, but additional leave of absence was
not ae He still retains a position as consultant
on international vital statistics to the League.

Mr. Sydenstricker’s regular work is director of
statistical research in the United States Public Health
Service which he has held for the past five years,
having been connected with that service since 1915.
His principal lines of work have been in epidemio-
pellagra, tuberculosis,
and of economic factors in disease prevalence, and
in building up an organization within the federal

logical studies of influenza,

public health service for epidemiological and = sta-
tistical study of public health problems. For a num-
ber of years he has contributed to various medical,
statistical and economic periodicals and is the author
of several books and reports.

A prominent man on the campus, Sydenstricker

 

 

Epcar SyYDENSTRICKER, ’02

 

 

will be remembered by all who were at W. and L.
while he was in college. He is married and has two
children one of whom, Edgar, Junior, will enter
Washington and Lee in 1932.

 

 

 

 

THREE CREW RACES PLANNED FOR
FINALS

The Albert Sidney and Harry Lee boat crews will
stage three races during Finals, instead of the regular
two races that have been put on for the past years.
Along with the races between the two rival first and
second teams, the third team of each crew will battle
for third honors.

Although the cold weather this spring has been
somewhat restricting to crew work, the two sets of
boatmen have been holding daily practices. Since
Easter there have been only five crews practicing from
which three will have to be selected to compete in the
The new men who are showing up well

Williams, Go-

Finals races.
in the Albert Sidney aggregation are:
renflo, Bates and Fox.

The Blues havé recently purchased four new oars.
Intensive workouts will be held from now on. The
first crew will line up with Acevedo as coxswain,
Captain Edgerton at stroke; Cooper at 3; Gorenflo,
Williams, or Gibson at 2; and Mulholland at 1.

GUS OTTENHEIMER, 717, RETURNS TO
LITTLE ROCK

Gus Ottenheimer, ’17, has resigned his position as
vice-president of Albert Pfeifer’s store in Providence,
R. I. to return to Little Rock where he will take an
active part with his brother in the management of the
Leonard J. Ottenheimer, Inc. wholesale ready-to-wear

business.

After leaving college, Mr. Ottenheimer practiced law
in Little Rock, Arkansas, and was admitted to all the
courts, including the Supreme Court of the United
States.
partner, the late Congressmen Charles C. Reid, Mr.

About three years ago, at the death of his

Ottenheimer came east and associated himself with the
Albert Pfeifer Company.
financially interested with his brother in the business

For some time he had been

in Little Rock which has grown to such an extent that
it became necessary for him to assist actively in its
management.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE FACULTY

Dr. DeLaWar B. Easter, Dr. William M. Brown,
14, and T. R. Nelson, ’23, attended the national con-
vention of Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary society,
at William and Mary College recently. Dr. Brown
was elected executive secretary of the national council.

Dean Harry D. Campbell, ’82, and Dr. William M.
Brown, ’14, represented Washington and Lee at the
annual conference of Virginia colleges held in Rich-
mond during February, and were speakers on that oc-
casion.

“Tax Reform in Virginia” is the title of an article
by Professor Robert H. Tucker in the January issue
of the Bulletin of the National Tax Association. ‘The
article reviews the present tax situation in Virginia
and traces the movement for administrative reform
beginning with the adoption of the State constitution
of 1902.

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon, head of the English De-
partment, is the co-author, with Professor Clement
Tyson Goode of the University of Richmond, of “An
Atlas of English Literature,” which has just come off
the press. The book, for which there has been a long-
felt need, is a work involving long, scholarly research.
Its purpose is to connect all English writers with the
places in which they lived for any length of time in
order that the influence of the locality upon the author
may be traced.

Professor William T. Lyle.of the College of Engi-
neering has written an article entitled “Super Engi-
neering” which appears in the March number of the
magazine of the Princeton Engineering Association,
and another called “Zoning and Public Utilities” which
was published in the March number of the Proceed-
ings of the American Society of Civil Engineers.

—_— —--—_——

WILLIAM H. NEBLETT, ’14, FORMS LAW
PARTNERSHIP WITH FORMER
CABINET MEMBER

After practicing law in San Francisco, California,
for a few years, William Haynie Neblett, LL.B., ’14,
has joined with William Gibbs McAdoo, Secretary of
the Treasury under Woodrow Wilson, for the prac-
tice of law in Los Angeles, California. ‘The firm is
known as McAdoo and Neblett.

Neblett came to Washington and Lee in 1912 after
receiving his bachelor’s degree at William and Mary.
Mr. McAdoo received his education at the University
of Tennessee and Hamilton College.

C. H. TUPPER, ’04, ADVERTISING
SPECIALIST

An announcement of interest to alumni is the pur-
chase by Clifton H. Tupper, ’04, of the interest of
F. R. Colgan in the Clifton H. Tupper agency and
the Tupper-Colgan Advertising Company, of San
Antonio, Texas, which makes Mr. Tupper the sole
owner of the business.

The business, which specialized in newspaper, maga-
zine, farm journal and direct-by-mail advertising, was
founded by Mr. Tupper six years ago and he has de-
voted his entire energies in working for its expansion.
It now enjoys the distinction of being nationally rec-
ognized by the highest authorities in the profession,
and handles a considerable number of national and
local accounts. Notable successes in the advertising
field have contributed to the enviable reputation the
Tupper agency has earned for service and sincerity.

Since his days at W. and L., Tupper has been author,
editor, newspaper owner, cavalry officer and head of a
family consisting of his wife and three children.

CC

BUS SCHEDULES TO AND FROM
LEXINGTON

The recent changes in the schedule of the ‘Towns
bus line together with the changes made some months
ago when a bus line was established between Lexing-
ton and Roanoke have been the source of much sat-
isfaction to the people of Lexington and students. A
few weeks ago two additional busses were put on the
run between Lexington and Staunton, giving four
busses a day each way. These arrive and depart from
Lexington at very convenient hours and make good
connections with the trains both in Staunton and in
Roanoke.

The present schedule is as follows:

A.M. A.M. A.M. P.M. P.M.

Lv. Roanoke 7.45 10.00 2.00 4.30
Ar. Lexington 10.00 12.20 4.20 6.45
Ly. Lexington 10.05 8.00 12.30 4.30
Ar. Staunton 11.45 9.30 2.00 6.00
Ly. Staunton 8.15 12.00 3.00 7.15
Ar. Lexington 9.45 130 430 815
Ly. Lexington 10.15 7.00 1.30 4.30
Ar. Roanoke 12.30 920 3.45 6.45

Note: Leave Staunton from Virginia Hotel and

Beverly Hotel. Leave Lexington from Lexington
Hotel.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

“Sam” Glasgow, 03

Few families have been as intimately connected
with Washington and Lee, as students, professors
and trustees. as have the Glasgows of Lexington.
“Sam.” of ’03, son of Frank T., ’74, and grandson
of William A., ’44, is the subject of the present dis-
course.

When he first entered college he was elected presi-
dent of the freshman class and pledged to the Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity. Later came other honors—
membership in the Washington Literary Society, a
scholarship in Latin, winning of the all-around gym
cup. He played football on the team of ’01 and was
active generally in campus affairs.

During 1904 and 1905 Mr. Glasgow was professor
of Latin and history at Fredericksburg College, Vir-
cinia, but resigned to continue his studies at the
Union Theological Seminary at Richmond for the
next two years. In 1908-09 he held the Hoge fellow-
ship at that college. He volunteered for service as
a missionary in Mercedes, Brownsville County,
Texas, which is on the Mexican border, and remained
there from 1909 to 1916. During 1913-14 he also
taught Greek and Homeletics in the Austin Theologi-
cal Seminary, Austin, Texas.

A call to Charleston, West Virginia, came, and he
severed his connection with the home mission work
and became pastor of the Bream Memorial Presby-
terian Church, succeeding Charlie Myers, 97, in that
pulpit. He remained there until 1920 when he took
his present charge, the First Presbyterian Church of
Knoxville.

Mr. Glasgow is the author of “Border Trails,”

 

SamugE.L M. Giascow, 03

 

 

“The Frontier Pamphlets,” “Needed Counsel for New
Christians,” and various articles in current publica-
tions. He is prominent in his church, being at
present a member of the national assembly’s Execu-
tive Committee of Foreign Missions. In 1921 W.
and L. awarded him the honorary degree of Doctor
of Divinity.

 

 

 

 

= - —

ELABORATE NEW CHURCH BUILDING IN
NORTHWEST

From Portland, Oregon, comes a sketch of the plans
for the new Rose City Park Community Presbyterian
Church. of which Rev. Donald W. M. MacCluer, 07,
is the pastor. The building is a beautiful structure
adapted from the Italian renaissance and will amply
accommodate the large congregation in all of its nu-
merous activities.

After graduating from Washington and Lee where
he was prominent in track and debating, Mr. Mac-
Cluer attended Auburn Theological Seminary and ob-
tained his B.D. from there. He has since become
prominent in the Presbyterian Church of the north-
west.

Mr. MacCluer writes that much as he would like to
drift back to the old campus he cannot cover the whole
continent that lies between, and the best he can do is
to send his son in about 1934.

 

 

NATIONAL EDITORIAL ASSOCIATION TO
VISIT VIRGINIA IN JUNE

Virginia, including Lexington, in the early summer
will enjoy a visit from the National Editorial Associa-
tion with its hundreds of leading newspaper men in the
United States as members. The association will hold
‘ts fortieth annual convention in the Jefferson Hotel
of Richmond the first three days of June. The mem-
bership will then devote two weeks to visiting places
of historic interest in Virginia. The first four days
will be devoted to the inspection of the Tidewater sec-
tion, reaching Roanoke the afternoon of the ninth;
from there to Natural Bridge and Lexington the
evening of June tenth. They arrive in Charlottes-
ville the eleventh, proceed to Staunton, and go north
through the Shenandoah Valley where they spend sev-
eral days. On the sixteenth they visit Fredericksburg
and the battlefields, on the seventeenth, Mount Ver-
non and Arlington.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Editorial

The most serious aspect of the honor system is the
right of public trial to which an accused student may
appeal after having been found guilty by the Execu-
tive Committee of the Student Body. This appeal is
rarely made. ‘T'wo years ago a student appealed and
was proved innocent. This year another student ap-
pealed upon a more serious charge. He was allowed
his choice of counsel from the Law School, a judge
was appointed and a jury impaneled. ‘The trial lasted
two days. ‘The court procedure was conducted en-
tirely by students. ‘The Executive Committee pre-
ferred the charges. He was convicted by a jury of his
fellow students and his punishment was immediate
withdrawal from college.

—_—_ ——-— —

Two forces arrayed in different fields of college en-
- deavor have added much to the student development at
Washington and Lee. Although one is in the athletic
department and the other in the Y. M. C. A. both
have made noteworthy advances toward the same
end.

James DeHart believes that football is a character
builder, and so the teams are taught. He has com-
pleted his third year at Washington and Lee. He has
produced consistent winning teams, yet none have
been sensational, none of his players have been bril-
liant stars. He has produced smooth working ma-
chines, hard fighters, clean players. He has developed
a spirit of fellowship among the players that is stronger
than the desire for victory. Himself a high type gen-
tleman, Jimmy DeHart adds greater glory to the ath-
letic aspirations of Washington and Lee by his meth-
ods, character and ideals.

Karl Zerfoss entered the Y. M. C. A. secretaryship
of Washington and Lee and has served for two years
with little splendor and pomp. He has brought the
Christian leadership of the students themselves to the
foreground. He has developed leaders regardless of
student body politics. His service has been quiet and
unassuming yet firm and extensive. Thus he has
taken up the work so well begun by Ted Schultz,
15, and developed it along the lines of his own vision,
broadly and successfully.

The effective work of the University is de-
pendent upon the sympathetic interest of the alumni
and it is because they continue to stand back of her
and answer her appeals from year to year that she
has reached her present stage of usefulness and
service.

Reunions!

 

There has been some well-founded opposition to 4
Commencement as the proper time for Alumni Re- —
union. ‘The annual big home football game in the fall
has always been suggested as a substitute.

It is true that the predominance of student social

activity during Finals is uninteresting to alumni. —

However, many events can be arranged that will be of
particular interest to the old men at Finals. A study
of the Commencement schedule on page 5 of this is-
sue will show that every effort is being made to pro-

vide an adequate and interesting program this year. 3
But no matter how interesting the entertainment fea-

tures are, everything is dependent upon the number of
alumni attending.

There is much on the old campus to warm and cheer
—but do not expect to be a part of it now. Rather,
you are the owners, giving it over to the younger men
for a time. Your own joy is to be had in living over
past experiences, in re-visiting old scenes, in greeting
old friends among the faculty and townspeople, in
seeing old classmates who like yourself have returned
after the span of years. Your visit will be worth
while.

We will have a reunion at the Virginia game, too!

 

The Louisiana Alumni Association with head-
quarters at New Orleans continues to be the most ac-
tive state association of Washington and Lee alumni.
Under the leadership of F. P. Hamilton and the
other efficient officers of the association the Louisiana
alumni have done much to facilitate the publication
of the Alumni Directory. They have also become
actively interested in the ALUMNI MAGAZINE and con-
tinue to send in subscriptions to it. For the benefit
of other alumni leaders who are anxious to perfect
their organizations, Mr. Hamilton has been asked to
write an article on the workings of a state and local
association for the next issue of the ALumMNr MaGa-
ZINE.

 

College and University alumni are being asked to
contribute toward the support of the Stone Mountain
Memorial. Major General D. C. Shanks, U. S. A. re-
tired, has written to Judge Caffrey urging the W. and
L. Alumni, Incorporated, to respond to the Stone
Mountain Association’s appeal for funds.

 

Meet your former classmates in Lexington, June
5-9. Write to them and let them know that you are
coming.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Opportunities for Christian Investment at Washington and Lee

By President HENryY Louis SMITH

To build monuments in the “Cities of the Dead,”
has been in every age a highly valued method of
bearing public testimony to the virtues of the de-
parted and to the loyalty and affection of those left
behind.

When such memorials of past service, however,
can be erected not only in the “Cities of the Living,”
but among the agents and agencies which advance
the happiness and welfare of the living, a double pur-
pose is attained and the memorial to the past becomes
an active working force for the advancement of the
future.

To the Christian business men of the South who
wish to see this double purpose attained by their
memorials, Washington and Lee University affords a
unique opportunity as an all-southern and _ national
nursery of the Christian leadership of the future.

The Y. M. C. A. secretary of such an institution,
mingling day by day with many hundreds of the
finest representatives of the leading families of many
states, has a wonderful opportunity for maintaining
and advancing the Christian civilization of the future,
‘n America and hence in the world. Any business
man who endows this Chair of Practical Religion
would be establishing a most worthy and fruitful
memorial.

The Y. M. C. A. Reading Room in the center of
the campus, with its library of daily reading-books
and magazines for the Christian leaders of the
student-body, might very well be endowed for its up-
keep, heating, lighting, reading matter, etc. This
room, named after some leading Christian, or family
of Christians, with a suitable tablet, would constitute
a remarkable and useful memorial to Christian
liberality and wisdom.

A special loan fund, perhaps called by the specific
name of the Y. M. C. A. Loan Fund, to be utilized
as a revolving loan for especially desirable and needy
young men who are preparing themselves at Wash-
ington and Lee for some form of regular Christian
life-work. Such a fund would help prepare many
able young men for more effective Christian leader-
ship and thus bring rich dividends on the invest-
ment,

A Memorial Lectureship Endowment whose in-
come could be used each year to provide for the de-
livery of valuable addresses designed to elevate
morals, promote character, and advance Christian
Civilization would be not only a suitable memorial to
some Christian life and character but of great value
in advancing morals and Christian development among
the leaders of the future. These lectures should be

 

 

Presipent Henry Louis SMITH

 

 

published at the expense of the fund for national cir-
culation.

Possibly the most notable and effective of all per-
sonal and family memorials would be the supplying
of a long-felt need by erecting and endowing a
Students’ Union, or what might be called an ampli-
fied Y. M. C. A. Hall, with all possible facilities for
religious and social gatherings, both for the faculty
and the student-body. Such a hall, swarming with
grateful students all the time and acting as a center
of all organized campus activities, would create a
new campus life in the University. A magnificient
lot at the campus entrance has already been pur-
chased and laid aside for such a needed building.

These are merely samples of the opportunities of-
fered in connection with this iterdenominational,
all-Southern nursery of future leadership for those
Christian investors who believe that the best use of
money is the advancement of ‘our Christian civiliza-
tion.

Every wise-hearted alumnus, every far-seeing
alumni organization, every advocate of Christian
civilization, of whatever name, who definitely and
energetically brings this opportunity to the thoughtful
attention of Christian Investors, is not only a friend
of such higher education but an active and effective
partner of General Lee himself.

Reunions of the classes whose numerals are divisi-
ble by five in Lexington, June 5-9,

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

From H. B. Graybill, ‘02

A newsy and interesting “R. S. V. P.” blank, quoted
below, has been received from H. B. Graybill, ’02.
Under “What are you doing?” he writes:

“Teaching modern education in ancient China which
has stopped being ancient in many respects—partly on
account of our teaching modern education; running an
educational office for the distribution of information,
ideas, and encouragement to some of the five hundred
or more Christian schools in the province; working up
text books for Chinese students; raising a family.”

In reply to “What are other alumni in your locality
doing?” Mr. Graybill says:

“There are no others except Lau and Kwok. We
three hold down this end of China alone, I think.”

The heading “Other news notes—engagements,
marriages, etc.,”’ elicits the following response:

“Marriages and wives—only one so far; it is get-
ting out of style in China to have very many. En-
gagements—the original one was successful; no more
contemplated. Children, three, all Americans in spite
of their China birth, and headed for W. L. U.—all
three if W. L. U. admits women by 1935—otherwise
the boy will have to go alone. We are planning to
return to God’s Country in 1926. I came out here
first in 1903.

“There is nothing of importance to report. I have
nothing to do except teach Chinese students; make
books; help run a few schools; chase bandits when

they kidnap some of our students and teachers; keep
an eye out for the Reds who are very anxious to break
up all Christian schools; keep another eye out for the
two armies that are facing each other just across the
river from us and threatening to pull off the decisive
battle promised for several years; entertaining large
numbers of round-the-world people who pass through
Canton about this time of the year to see how our rev-
olutions are coming along and to buy some jade, gin-
ger, ivory or silk shawls. Of course there are still a
few things to think about. We are wondering what
will happen now that Sun Yat Sen has died. His was
the only party that has maintained any power and
unity since the revolution that made China a republic,
and his party is shot through with Russian doctrines.
There are more Russians in Canton than all other
white people combined. Russian soldiers are taking
active part in the fighting now in almost all parts of
China, fighting that is said to be financed largely by
Japan. Japan and Russia have recently made some
sort of compact. They are the two great nations that
are still anxious for more war, that believe in war, and
that agree in wanting to get hold of China. Both are
developing big armies, both are carrying on extensive
propaganda in China, both are actually in China now
under one pretext or another. So there you are.
Make of it what you can. I am not a prophet.”

 

 

FROM C. S. NICHOLS, ’05

Charles S. Nichols, 05, of Reno, Nevada, wrote to
the alumni office saying:

“Am just in receipt of March issue of the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE and find myself at a loss for words to ex-
press my commendation of the same. I regret most
deeply that the great distance precludes me from at-
tending the reunion of the old boys at Commencement
time. Was glad to have news of my old friend, Al-
bert Steves, Jr., who was our able and patient accom-
panist in the W. and L. Glee Club during 1903-04 as
well as good old Dave Pipes who was the first fellow I
met and laid over at Balcony Falls with, awaiting the
Lexington Limited on our way to the University in
September, 1903.”’

Mr. Nichols is city commissioner and councilman for
the City of Reno and has been an active member of
the Democratic Committee in Nevada. In addition he
is Boy Scout commissioner and a director of the local
Y. M. C. A. He has practiced law in Reno for a
number of years. He was married in Galesburg, IIli-
nois, fifteen years ago and has three children. ‘The
oldest, a boy, expects to enter Washington and Lee
in a few years.

Mr. Nichols’ address is “The Plantation,” 325
Thomas Street, Reno, Nevada.

VICE CONSUL RETURNS TO CAMPUS

Walter E. B. Smith, ’20, who for the past four years
has been Vice Consul at Nanking, China, is in this
country on leave of absence. He arrived in Lexing-
ton April tenth and after a few days’ visit as the guest
of J. L. Howe, Jr., and the Beta Theta Pi fraternity
he went to Washington to take examinations for pro-
motion in the consular service. He then stopped at
Lexington again on his way to Chattanooga where he
will remain for some time with his family.

Mr. Smith reported extreme difficulty in getting out
of China, due to the war conditions. For a while the
city of Nanking was completely cut off from the sea-
ports, the railroads having been completely destroyed
by the hostile forces.

While Mr. Smith’s plans are still indefinite, he ex-
pects to be sent back by the State Department to China

in July.

 

Your copy of the Alumni Directory and Service
Record should be reserved at once. Send check or
money order for $3.50 to the Alumni Secretary,
Drawer 897, Lexington,

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

Malcolm Campbell, °05

One of Lexington’s more recent commercial enter-
prises, The Corner, Incorporated, owes its success to
the capable management of Malcolm Campbell, ’05,
whose career has been full of activity and hard work
since leaving college.

Mr. Campbell is the youngest of five brothers, all of
whom attended Washington and Lee: William Camp-
bell, ’80, deceased; F. H. Campbell, ’85, of Lewisburg,
West Virginia; Alex Campbell, 90, deceased; and Dr.
R. G. Campbell, ’98, professor of political science at
W. & L.

Five years after graduation, Malcolm entered the
hardware business with his brother at Lewisburg,
West Virginia, and resided at that place until the death
of his wife in 1916. He then returned to Lexington to
raise his three children and traveled for a Chicago
wholesale hardware concern with Lexington as his
headquarters.

In 1921 the idea of a “Students Department Store”’
was born in his mind. The plan was developed in con-
junction with Eddie Parks Davis, 16, Charles S$. Glas-
gow, °15, and R. A. Smith, 15, and The Corner, In-
corporated, was opened for business on September
13, 1922. Eddie Davis was president of the corpora-
tion, Charlie Glasgow, vice-president, Dick Smith,
secretary, and Malcolm Campbell, treasurer and gen-
eral manager. Although the building across from the
Lexington High School which was being remodelled
for the new venture was not complete at the time, the
doors were opened for business with the beginning of
the 1922 college term. Results assured continued suc-
cess.

In addition to the rigid attention to business de-

manded by the constantly growing trade, Malcolm has
given his services as coach to the boys of the Lexing-

 

Matcoi.M CAMPBELL, ’05

 

 

ton High School. In their sport he re-lives the years
of 1902-05 when he hit the dust on the Washington
and Lee football and baseball teams.

Of particular interest to him at this time is the re-
union of his class at Commencement, June 5-9. He
has made an effort, at the suggestion of the Alumni
Office, to locate the officers of the class of ’05. Thus
far none have been found. A proper solution may be
found by a sufficient number of the class returning for
the reunion to form a new class organization. The
Corner will be the headquarters for ’05 and much of
the class activity.

 

 

Reminiscences -- From C. G. Crawford

Of interest to all alumni, but particularly to the “Old
Grads” is the following from C. G. Crawford, ’76:

“Your letter has carried my mind back, and brought
very vividly before me life at W. and L, in the seven-
ties. I can hear ‘Old Jim’ thunder his ‘hoi polloi’ as
he stood before his class, with his splendid physique.
I can see ‘Old Nick’ before his class, seated in his
chair propped against the wall at an angle of 45 de-
grees, his feet on the front round, rolling his pencil
backward and forward in his left hand; and Professor
Nelson, with his fine tenor voice, leading the music at
chapel six days in the week. A man of even temper
and unfailing courtesy. These and many other per-
sons and events come before me with all the freshness
and fragrance of spring.

“The fifty years since I was a student at W. and L.
have been among the most eventful in the world’s
history. ‘To me, personally, they have brought much
of blessing. Among them I may mention a good wife,
three dutiful children, plenty of hard work, a com-
petence, toleration on the part of my neighbors and
friends, and last but not least, a good hope for the
future.

“Please notify me when the Directory is ready for
distribution and I will send you a check for my copy.

“With best wishes for you, and Alma Mater, I am
Sincerely yours,

C. G. CRAWFORD.”
Kernstown, Virginia.

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Career of Russian Prince

In the life story of a Russian Prince, Dimitri George
Sidamon Eristoff, now an honor member of the Sen-
ior Law class at Washington and Lee, is told the re-
markable history of a man who began life as a promi-
nent member of the Russian nobility before the World
War, who suffered five years of almost unbelievable
hardship and misfortune and survived to start life
again in America with a brilliant record as a law stu-
dent. The Prince was one of the eleven recent initiates
into the Washington and Lee chapter of Phi Beta
Kappa, the national honorary fraternity for the recog-
nition of high scholarship.

The history of Prince Dimitri Eristoff reads like a
novel of life begun in luxury and magnificence, of war,
revolution, hardship hairbreadth escapes, famine, sor-
row and sickness, of final escape to America to begin
again as a refugee from his native land.

The prince was born in St. Petersburg, Russia, in
1891. At the age of ten he entered the Imperial school
of Jurisprudence and remained there until his gradua-
tion of 1911, when he entered the Department of
Justice of the Russian Government. He was actively
engaged there until 1915 when he entered the Imperial
Army of Russia as a volunteer and saw active service
against Germany as a member of the artillery. He was
commissioned a captain in the Red Cross in 1916. In
March, 1917, when Kerensky overthrew the Imperial
government and his regimé took control, Eristoff was
appointed by Kerensky the secretary to the minister of
Recordation. Soon after this he was married. Ker-
ensky a little later appointed him the assistant Trade
Commissioner of Russia to China and it was while
awaiting his passports to China that the Kerensky gov-
ernment was overthrown by the Bolshevists in October,
1917. The Prince left in December for the Caucasus
where he entered the Georgian Army. In 1918 he was
delegated to work for the Trans-Caucasian govern-
ment but conditions became so unsettled he was forced
to go to Sebastopol and work in the harbor as a steve-
dore in order to gain a living. He later went to Kiev,

in Ukrania, and became the secretary of the Supreme
Court under the local government.

In January, 1919 the pro-Bolshevists entered and
took Kiev, and Eristoff was forced to work in the
harbor of Kiev again as a laborer until the White
Army retook the city in August, 1919. He re-entered
the army and participated in the campaigns in Ukrania
and on until February, 1920 when he was taken with
smallpox. While the disease was at its height he was
captured by the Bolshevists. Meantime his wife had
died from privations.

Taken by the Bolshevists, he was sentenced to be
shot. ‘The day before the sentence was to be carried
out he escaped with some of his fellow-prisoners. Al-
most immediately after recovering from the small-pox
he was taken with typhus. But he recovered again
and went to Crimea where he joined the army of Gen-
eral Wrangel. From April to August, 1920 he saw
service as a cavalryman in the White Army and took
part in battles almost daily, usually against odds ten
to one. On August 1, 1920 he was shell-shocked, and
on August 9 was struck in the leg by a machine gun
bullet and sent to the hospital.

“T was delighted to be wounded,” the Prince re-
marked.

He again rejoined the army in the latter part of Sep-
tember, 1920 and in December the army was in Con-
stantinople. Here he left it and went to Tifflis alone.
He served for some time in several capacities until
August, 1921 when he finally sailed for America.
Landing in New York he worked for some time with
a Russian firm.and then in September, 1922 came to
Lexington and entered the Washington and Lee School
of Law.

He graduates from Washington and Lee in June,
one of the leading students in the class, and will take
up the active practice of law in New York. In addi-
tion to having been elected to Phi Beta Kappa he is a
member of the Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity.

 

 

Alumni Meetings Here and There.

On February twenty-sixth the alumni of Louis-

ville, Kentucky, held a meeting at which H. St. G.
Tucker Carmichael, 99, was the guest of honor. He
had been requested to tell the alumni about his work
in the attempted rescue of Floyd Collins at Sand
Cave. Mr. R. P. Hobson, ’14, writes in his report
of the meeting:
Page we contemplated having several talks by
our local alumni, but the Sand Cave talk was so in-
teresting that all those present asked the speaker to
take the entire time, which he did. Among those
present were Helm Bruce, John J. Davis, W. L.
Doolan, Arch M. Robinson, G. R. Smiley, C. P.
Light, R. M. Strassel, W. L. Hogue, T. Kennedy
Helm, and others.”

President Henry Louis Smith and the Honorable
John W. Davis have accepted the invitation of the
Brooklyn, New York, University Club to be the two
speakers at their banquet on April thirtieth. This is
an annual gathering which constitutes the important
event of the Club year.

President Harrison F. Persons in his invitation
explained that each year the University Club selected
as speakers the president and one alumnus of some
representative university. For the past several years
New York University, Cornell, Princeton, and other
northern schools have been chosen and the Club
therefore felt that a southern university should be

- heard from this year.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

W. T. Hanzsche, 13

Members of the class of °13 will recognize in the
accompanying photograph none other than Bill Hanz-
sche, who was known at W. and L. for his prowess in
debate, his activities in intra-mural football, Y. M.
C. A. and the Calyx staff, and his winning of the San-
tini medal and a scholarship in Economics.

Mr. Hanzsche has pursued the same arduous life
since he was awarded his B.A. after three years’ study.
He went to Princeton from Washington and Lee and
from there he obtained his M.A., B.D., and did one
year of graduate study. He was awarded a Princeton
eraduate fellowship in apologetics and studied at the
University of Chicago 1917-18. He then became pas-
tor of a church in Alton, Illinois, and at the same time
served as an instructor in Western Military Academy,
chaplain and athletic coach of the R. O. T. C. and
S.A. T. C. During this period he also did active camp
service.

In 1918 he became pastor of the Union Tabernacle
Church in Philadelphia and served there until 1922
when he was called to the Prospect Street Presbyterian
Church of Trenton, New Jersey.

In the three years that he has been in Trenton, Mr.
Hanzsche has built up the membership of his church
to 1,075. ‘They are largely responsible for the sup-
port of five missionaries and their innumerable activi-
ties in every phase of church work has well earned
them the title of “The Live Church of the State Cap-
ital.” A full-time director of religious education will
be added to their staff this spring which will make
them one of the first churches in the state to have
week-day schools of religious instruction. | The
$100,000 which has just been raised will be used for
enlargement and improvement of the church buildings
and grounds.

These have been the accomplishments of the Rev-
erend William Thomson Hanzsche in the eight years

 

 

Wm. THomson Hanzscue, 713

 

 

since he left college. He has acquired a wife, and
daughter, aged three. He finds time on the side to
write a book, contribute to publications occasionally,
compose the words for a new W. and L. song, and
plan for alumni entertainment at the Princeton-W. and
L. game next fall.

A remarkable success in his chosen field at the age —
of thirty-four years, we cannot attempt to predict what
heights his career will reach before his “three score
and ten” are finished.

 

The Roanoke alumni held a dinner on February
twentieth at which Mr. Lucian H. Cocke, ’78, rector
of the Board of Trustees, presided. About sixty
alumni were present and the guests of the association
were Coach Fletcher, Eddie Parks Davis, *15, and
Louis Epes, ’08, of Blackstone, Virginia. Dean W.
H. Moreland, ’06, of the Law School, had intended
to be present but was prevented because of illness.

Speeches were made by the visitors and several of
the local alumni. Officers elected for the year were:
C. S. McNulty, ’02, president; H. M. Moomaw, ’07,
vice-president; Randolph Whittle, ’24, secretary and
treasurer. Another meeting is planned for some
time in May.

x 2

The Pittsburgh alumni formed an association at a

meeting held on March 22 at the Fort Pitt Hotel.
There was a large and enthusiastic crowd in attend-
ance and the alumni look forward to a liye and grow-
ing organization. Plans for the W. and L.—Pitts-
burgh game at the opening of the new Pitt stadium
occupied most of the evening’s discussion. Dr. J.
W. Claudy, ’09, was elected president; N. C. Evans,
16, vice-president, and Harry Rectenwald, ‘10,
secretary and treasurer. Another meeting was
planned for April 17.

* *«*K *

The annual meeting of the Alumni, Incorporated,
will be held in Lexington, Monday, June eighth at
10:30 A. M. Every former student is entitled to a
vote at this meeting, and should be present.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Student Orchestra Completes Plans for European Tour

The Southerrr Collegians of Washington and Lee
have signed up with the Cunard Steamship Line for a
trip abroad this summer. The date for sailing has
been set for June 27, on which day they will leave
New York on the S. S. Andania. The contract was
recently signed by the manager, Montgomery C.
Murdough.

The itinerary of the Europeon trip will take the or-
chestra to many places of interest during the sum-
mer. From New York they will go first to Liver-
pool, then Cherbourg and then to Hamburg, it is an-
nounced.

On their return, the Collegians will stop off in Paris
where they have been booked at Keley’s cabaret for
two weeks from July 10 to 24. This is one of the
most widely known French-American cabarets in Paris.
Visiting college men from over here as well as other
American tourists make it their hangout and it is ex-
pected that the Collegians will receive a most cordial
welcome during their stay in the French capital.

The orchestra will leave Paris on the return trip
about August 1 on the S. S. Laconia.

Previous to sailing the Collegians will meet a lim-
ited number of engagements in this country between
June 17 and 27. Persons desiring to engage them

 

 

RANDOM GLEANINGS

Graham Rice, for seven years mentor of the T'reas-

urer’s Office, has amputated his moustache.
i. es: &

“That’s a real man!” “He knows his stuff.” “Best
talk I ever heard” were some of the comments made
by students after hearing W. Mc. Martin, ’92, address
the Commerce Department last month.

tue -&

The League of Nations is again claiming student
attention. Letters from John W. Davis, 92, and New-
ton D. Baker, ’94, have stimulated the organization of
a non-partisan association from the student body. Hon.
G. W. Wickersham, ’81, prominent Republican and At-
torney General in the Taft cabinet has added his en-
dorsement to the movement.

a ee

Eighteen teams participated in the State Prep and
High School basketball tournament held under the
auspices of the W. and L. Athletic Association. Staun-
ton Military Academy won the state championship and
Roanoke High School the State High School cham-
pionship. This annual tournament is a gracious con-
tribution from Washington and Lee to the Junior ath-
letics of the state. Hats off to Dick Smith, ’15.

x ok Ok

“Pete” Gibson, ’15, is in town today!

 

SOUTHERN COLLEGIANS

 

 

during this ten day period should get in touch with
Manager M. C. Burdough. They played at Fishburne
for the Easter set of dances at that school, April
15 and 16.

Although a comparatively young organization, the
Southern Collegians have risen almost overnight to
great popularity throughout the South wherever they
have appeared. They are hailed as one of the best
college orchestras in the country. Their engagement
by the Cunard Line is an honor to themselves and to
the University.

 

 

Spring football practice has been in progress for six
weeks. From present indications the 1925 Generals
will be a sensation. The schedule is hard but the team
will be equal to it. While there is no over-abundance
of material, it is much more plentiful than heretofore.
To beat V. P. I. and Virginia is not the least of their
well-founded ambitions. Pitt, Princeton and West
Virginia are included!

ie lh

Over two hundred delegates attended the State Stu-
dent Volunteer Conference held in Lexington during

March.
*k * x

The Lexington Baptist Church has changed its name
to the “Manly Memorial Church” in memory of Dr.
Charles Manly, pastor from 1903 to 1914.

ik 4
One-third of the living Phi Beta Kappas are women.

* * x

The engineer on the C. and O. passenger train was
killed when the locomotive left the track three miles
out of Lexington recently.

* x *

Forty-two students made the honor roll this sem-
ester.

*,

a
<
a
7
a

{
7
4
4

:

 

6 gad, Be be 1 sil, Bee ee Oe Ba

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

Alumni Directory Ready

The sentiments of Alma Mater affection are en-
twined with memories of old classmates. The chief
interest of an alumnus is in the whereabouts and
achievements of his college chums.

A list of alumni by classes used in the Endowment
Campaign revived many forgotten memories. Col-
lege boy escapades were recalled. Harrison R.
Morse, ’06, of Medford, Massachusetts, remembered
a fist-fight with Josiah Sapp, ‘07, now of Panama
City, Florida. James Poyntz Nelson, 69, of Rich-
mond, wandered back to experiences with W. W.
Carson, 69, now of Knoxville, Tennessee. John R.
Sullivan, "91, of Denton, Texas, told interesting
anecdotes about D. L. Groner, ’92, now a federal
judge. Alumni were hungry for news about old
friends,

With this knowledge the Alumni, Incorporated,
has made every effort to compile a complete and ac-
curate Alumni Directory, giving names and addresses
of every former student with a brief biography of
each, or if deceased, date and place of death. These
names and biographies have been listed by classes
beginning with 1782. They have also been cross-in-
dexed alphabetically and geographically.

In addition to a chronological record of alumni
and an account of alumni service in five wars, the
book will contain articles on the “Liberty Hall Vol-
unteers” by the late John N. Lyle, the “W. and L.
Ambulance Unit in France” by Sergeant Forest
Fletcher, the “W. and L. S. A. T. C.” by Captain J.
C. Harper, and historical sketches of Washington

_ and Lee.

College from the recollections of Professor Alexan-
der L. Nelson and William A. Glasgow.

A separate record of all outstanding student-body
activity has also been included. For instance the
winners of all university and prize scholarships are
listed separately; all initiates to Phi Beta Kappa,
Delta Sigma Rho and Omicron Delta Kappa are
recorded under their respective heads. All Literary
Society honor men, publication editors and business
managers are listed. Members of all athletic teams
and crews since 1870 are named with addresses. ‘The
Y. M. C. A., social organizations and student body
offices each have a separate historical sketch.

This combination Directory should be off the press
by June first at the latest and will be offered to alumni
at $3.50 per copy. It will contain five hundred pages
in readable type with numerous illustrations. It is
to be standard book size and bound in cloth. Copies
should be reserved at once.

The book will not be as complete or as accurate as
we would have liked. One thousand alumni have
failed to respond to our continued requests for in-
formation. However, the volume will be the most
complete student history ever issued by Washington
It contains much of interest to every
alumnus. It has been a tremendous undertaking for
our association. Our effort has been to provide an
interesting and profitable return for the alumni who
have so loyally supported Washington and Lee and
the Alumni, Incorporated.

 

 

Wedding Bells

Dr. T. Preston White, °17, son of: Dr. Reid White,
87, and Miss Henrietta Tucker, daughter of Hon. H.
St. G. Tucker, ’75, were married March twenty-first at
All Saints’ Church, Winter Park, Florida. The wed-
ding was quiet and very simple, only the immediate
families being present. After a brtef visit at Lexing-
ton, Dr. and Mrs. White have gone to Charlotte, North
Carolina, where the groom has a_ rapidly-growing

medical practice.
x ok x

Preston C. Hatcher, ’24, of Jonesboro, Arkansas,
was recently married to Miss Tula Hickson, of the
same city. During his four years at W. and L., “Pat”
was prominent in athletics and was a member of Phi
Gamma Delta fraternity and Omicron Delta Kappa
honorary society. He is at present associated with his
father in the wholesale fruit business at Jonesboro.

*x* *« x

J. Frank Rushton, ’23, and Miss Estelle Edwards of

Centralia, Illinois, were married on March twenty-sec-
ond at the bride’s home. They will reside in Birming-
ham. Mr. Rushton, who is a member of the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity and well known by all who were
in college with him, is now associated with his father

in business.
x * x

Raleigh M. Jenkins, of Birmingham, Alabama, who
graduated last year with the degree of Bachelor of Sci-
ence in Commerce, was married on February 24 to Miss
Catherine Crommelin of Montgomery, Alabama. They
will make their home in Birmingham where Mr. Jen-
kins is in the lumber. business.

x * x

On January thirtieth, KE. V. Biddle, Jr., ’25, of wrest-
ling, track and boxing fame, followed Eddie Cameron’s
example and joined himself in the bonds of holy wed-
lock with Miss Lucy Long, daughter of Mr. and Mrs.
Lee Long, of Dante, Virginia.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

War Letters of Clovis Moomaw, 16

July 28, 1918.
Dear Mamma and Papa:

Since rejoining my company we have moved again.
We have lost our old captain who is away at school
for a long course and have in his place one older,
more experienced and one who on the whole is much
more acceptable.

I have just returned from a visit to the front for
observation purposes. It is really not a bad place
except that one has to live more or less underground.
I was up for two days and found lots of mud since it
rained almost continually. We had good meals and
dry places to sleep. ‘There was little to suggest our
proximity to the Germans, none of whom we saw
though we were only about a hundred yards from
them.

We are now living in an orchard in tents which I
think is better than in billets. We do not lack any-
thing we need to make ourselves comfortable and I
have never felt better.

Best love,
Clovis.

August 5, 1918.
Dear Mamma and Papa:

Evidently the rainy season has set in for it has
rained practically every day for two weeks. Yet the
roads are so wonderful trafic goes right on. I wish
you could see this country now. It is rolling like the
country about Ella’s in Missouri. Though it is
August the wheat harvest is just coming in. Such
wheat I never saw. It is as thick as it can stand and
about five feet high. Miles and miles of it promise
abundance of bread for the gallant French. And to
think much of it will be cut by hand and by the wo-
men at that. France could not have fought the war
this long without her women. They do over half the
work on her farms, make her munitions, do much
man’s work about her cities, and pay no attention to
their looks. The peasant woman is the most unpre-
possessing looking creature you ever saw.

Our new captain has taken well with the men and
is just what we need to make a crack company. We
now have the best one in the Battalion. No letters
from you this week.

Love,
Clovis.

August 14, 1918.
Dear Mamma and Papa:

After a very interesting week I am again resting
quietly in camp on a quiet, bright summer morning.
I was at the front for four days in a place of no ac-
tivity, my only duties being to see that my men were
well fed and watered. All the food and water had to

be brought up and distributed at night. During the
day we slept with a few sentries on the lookout. An
occasional shell whistling along would make one glad
for the deep trenches. All of my boys were ex-
tremely interested and not one of them received a
scratch. Last night when we came back they were
happy as children. We had the band here and lots
of singing during the evening. This morning they
are all away taking a bath and getting cleaned up
generally.

I am in excellent health and spirits as are all the
men.

Everybody of course is intensely interested in the
allied successes of the past few weeks. It is gen-
erally believed that Germany can not hold out a great
deal longer. '

Your letter of July 16 with pamphlet enclosed is
just at hand. Thank Mrs. Whitner for me for her
paper but I have little time to read, my time is so
fully occupied.

Best love,
Clovis.

August 20, 1918.
Dear Mamma and Papa:

Your joint letter has just been received. It is good
to hear of your excellent health and spirits. I am
feeling fine as usual. |

I got a letter from Annie yesterday, who is feeling
much better. George wrote me a good letter recently
so I am being kept posted as to what you are doing
and thinking.

I am now with my old company and with my same
platoon that I crossed over with. I have some mighty
good boys with me who seem more like my children
than strange men. One gets awfully close to his
men in this business.

I have only a few minutes to write before the mail
leaves so I shall have to make this letter short.

Best love,
Clovis.

August 30, 1918.
Dear Mamma and Papa:

We are now in a very wonderful part of France.
Instead of broad fields of waving grain there are lots
of woods and hills. Pine forests bring back memories
of old Virginia. In our manoeuvers over the big
hills we get beautiful outlooks for miles and miles
over the valleys and woods. Every hill has its flock
of sheep, its shepherd and his dog that come slowly
in just before it is too dark to see. The harvest is
finished and there is lots of stubble for us to ramble
over.

 

(Continued on page 37)

 

7
7
:
4
:

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

29

 

 

AT LAST---

THE ALUMNI DIRECTORY
IS READY!

500 Pages of News, History and Biography
Bound in Cloth -- Profusely Illustrated.

COPIES SHOULD BE ORDERED AT ONCE TO INSURE RESERVATION
FROM LIMITED PRINTING. ;

Price $3.50 per copy prepaid.
Make check or money order payable to Alumni,
Incorporated, and mail to Verbon E. Kemp,

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia.

 

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Death Notices

Mrs. C. A. Graves, who will be remembered by
the students of 1875 to 1900 as the wife of Professor
Graves, died at Charlottesville Friday, March twenty-
seventh, and was buried in that city.

* * x

Rev. H. Ruffner Laird, ’66, died March first at
LaGrange, Kentucky, at the age of eighty-three
years. He enlisted at the outbreak of the Civil War
in the College Company, Company I, Fourth Virginia
Infantry, Stonewall Brigade, and was afterwards in
Company C, First Virginia Cavalry. After leaving
W. and L. he continued his studies at the Union
Seminary, and later was pastor of churches in Vir-
ginia, West Virginia, Texas and Kentucky. “His
death brought to a close the highly useful life of a
man held in warm regard by many people.”

x ok x

James B. Stubbs, ’72, for seventy-three years an
honored resident of Galveston, Texas, died there
February third. The following is quoted from a
speech made at a meeting of the Galveston Bar Asso-
ciation of which he was past president:

“James B. Stubbs was a great lawyer and a pro-
found student of the law. His arguments before the
courts, presented with a genius of expression, cogency
of reasoning and comprehension of analogy, principle
and precedent have seldom been surpassed.
He loved the law as he loved justice and he demon-
strated in his practice the justice and humanity of the
law. He was a harmonizer, and his affability and
fairness eliminated much of the bitterness that litiga-
tion frequently engenders. In native ability and
erudition and in presentation he was worthy of the
best traditions of our profession and the peer of any
lawyer in this broad land.”

ee

Colonel George W. Warren, ’83, a prominent
citizen of Beckley, West Virginia, and vice-president
of the Bank of Raleigh, died on January fourth after
a brief illness.

Colonel Warren was born in Union, West Virginia,
in 1863. He attended the local schools and gradu-
ated from the Washington and Lee law_ school
in 1883. Prior to his residence in Beckley, he prac-
ticed law at Union and later engaged in the news-
paper business for many years, having been editor of
the Clifton Forge Review and of the Hinton Demo-
crat.

He is survived by Mrs. Warren, eight children, and
a large number of warm friends.

x *k x

The alumni office has just received news of the
death of David Harris Goodwin, ’84 on August 14,

1923, at Austell, Georgia. Mr. Goodwin was born
at Fredericks Hall, Virginia, and was for thirty-five
years auditor for the Southern Railway.

* * X

Gus H. Hampton, "90, died at his home at Catletts-
burg, Kentucky, on January 13, 1923.

* * *

The following is quoted from the New Orleans
Times-Picayune regarding Colonel R. A. Young, ’05,
whose death on December fifth was reported in the
last issue of the Alumni Magazine:

“The death of Lieutenant-Colonel Richard A.
Young by accidental electrocution at Monroe, Louisi-
ana, Friday night brought expressions of sorrow
from many of the personnel of the Louisiana Na-
tional Guard with which Colonel Young had been so
long connected.

“Colonel Young had nearly a quarter of a century
of military service to his credit. He enlisted in Com-
pany D, then First Battalion of Infantry, Louisiana
National Guard, Monroe, in 1901, and had continu-
ous service since. He was commissioned in 1908,
being assigned to Company D, then First Infantry
Regiment, L. N. G. (now 156th Infantry), becoming
captain of this company in 1914, and commanding it
through the Mexican border service and the first part
of the World War. During the last war he was pro-
moted to major and served in that rank in several
capacities until July, 1919, shortly after which he be-
came a lieutenant colonel in the infantry reserve
corps. Upon the reorganization of the 156th In-
fantry, following the war, he was appointed lieuten-
ant colonel and assigned to that organization, retain-
ing this rank and assignment at his death.”

* -* x

The death of Jesse Evans, °16, which occurred
February eighteenth at his home in Chattanooga,
Tennessee, was the result of complications following
an operation for appendicitis. T. Walter Fred, ’12,
writes of him:

“Jesse’s death was very sudden and a great shock
to the whole community. He was general superin-
tendent of the Dixie Mercerizing Company, a_ very
large textile plant of this city. He was a conspicuous
success in a business way and very popular socially
He belonged to all the principal clubs of the city and
was considered one of Chattanooga’s foremost and
most promising business men.”

Mr. Evans is survived by his wife, formerly Ann
Lupton of Bedford, Virginia, a daughter five years
old and a son three. He was a member of the Phi
Delta Theta Fraternity.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

William Bucy Trigg, "19, died suddenly of heart
trouble at his home in Gentryville, Indiana, and was
buried Sunday, March twenty-second, at Fayette-
ville, Tennessee. He is survived by his wife and two
children.

Se ©

News has been received of the death of Eugene
Jackson Ward, a member of last year’s Freshman
class, in Asheville, North Carolina, February four-
teenth. Ward, whose home was in Selma, Alabama,
was forced to withdraw from the University late last
spring because of ill health and had hoped to return
this year but was unable to do so. He was a member
of the Arcades Club, the Troubadours, and_ the
Southern Collegians Orchestra, and had many friends

on the campus.

 

The Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity won the inter-frat
basketball championship, defeating the Delta Tau
Deltas in the finals.

ee

Arlington, the home of General Robert E. Lee prior
to the Civil War, is to be restored under an act re-
cently passed by Congress.

Pe Si

Dr. John H. Latané, former professor of history at
Washington and Lee and now at Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity, says that the greatest living admirer of General
Lee is Gerald Smythe, a barrister of London, England.

oe

During the 175 years that American colleges have
had fraternities, three-quarters of a million men have
worn fraternity pins. Of these, 648 have been col-
lege presidents, 200 have been governors of states,
230 have been United States senators, 24 have been
secretaries of state, 160 United States judges, 42
major-generals, and many have been authors and held
other distinguished positions.—Daily Californian.

eel oe

Al Orth of Lynchburg, Virginia, league umpire and
famous old-time pitcher of the big leagues, has been
engaged at V. M. I. to coach the pitching staff.

 

ROBEY.S.. BW. 4cNE,

Prompt Service

Buena Vista—Lexington

WE MEET ALL GRAINS

Buena Vista Phone No. 3 Lexington Phone No. 62

 

Cc. M. LAMBERT, Pres. and Treas. S. K. LAMBERT, Sec’y

Lambert Manufacturing Co.

Contractors for Buildings

All Kinds WAY NESBORO, VA.
Building Material

MILLWORK CONTRACTORS

for the

NEW BETA HOUSE and
GRAHAM DORMITORY

The Chas. H. Elliott Co.

The Largest College Engraving House in the World

 

Commencement Invitations Class Day Programs
Class Pins and Rings

Dance Programs and Invitations, Menus
Leather Dance Cases and Covers

Fraternity and Class Inserts for Annuals
Fraternity and Class Stationery

School Catalogs and Illustrations
Wedding Invitations,CallingCard

Seventeenth Street and Lehigh Avenue,
Philadelphia

 

 

 

Quality

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Service

Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Personals

Ex-Governor James ‘I. Harrison, ’67, is practicing
law in Columbus, Mississippi.

W. W. Estill, 68, of 240 Market Street, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky, is vice-president of the Phoenix Nat-
ional Bank and Trust Company.

Walter Gorman, ’71, of Forrest City, Arkansas, is
an attorney with an extensive practice in that locality.

Hon. Thomas C. McRae, ’72, has retired from the
office of Governor and resumed the practice of law at
Prescott, Arkansas. Mr. and Mrs. McRae celebrated
their fiftieth wedding anniversary on December sev-
enteenth of last year.

The interests of C. F. Sherrod, ’72, are many and
diverse—He is a planter, banker, realtor, capitalist,
dairyman, etc., at Columbus, Mississippi.

The Boston Transcript, in a special article, lists Rep-
resentative H. St. G. Tucker, ’75, of Virginia, as one
of a small group of congressmen who have attained
recognition in the field of authorship. Following is a
partial quotation from the Transcript: “Harry St.
George Tucker, of Lexington, Virginia, is one of the
best known political scientists in either branch of con-
gress. He was president of the American Bar Asso-
ciation in 1904-05, and is the author of “Tucker on the

Constitution,’ ‘Limitations of the ‘Treaty-Making .

Power under the Constitution of the United States,’
and ‘Woman Suffrage by Constitutional Amend-
ment.’ ”

Albert H. Alford, ’83, and Eugene Alford, ’84, are
partners in the ownership and editing of the Lewis-
ton ‘Tribune, Lewiston, Idaho, where they both live.
Mr. Albert Alford is unmarried and is prominent in
politics, having been speaker of the Idaho legislature.
Mr. Eugene Alford and his wife have four children,
two of whom will be at W. and L. within the next
three years.

Rev. Hugh W. White, ’86, missionary to China,
now on furlough in this country spent a day last week
with relatives in Lexington. He came from Bedford
County, Virginia, where his family is living.

Mr. William Green, ’91, has retired from active
business on account of his health. He spends most of
his time in Little Rock, Arkansas.

For the benefit of his old-time friends and col-
leagues H. A. Albright, ’92, writes that he has thus
far been successful in dodging the traffic and keeping
out of jail. He still holds forth in Columbus, Miss-
issippi.

Walter Edward Harris, ’93, is editor of the Prog-
ress-Index of Petersburg, Virginia.

Dr. D. Allen Penick, 94, of Nicholasville, Ken-
tucky, was a visitor at the home of his brother, Mr.
Paul M. Penick, 96, during March. He was return-
ing from Baltimore where his brother has been seri-
ously ill in Johns Hopkins Hospital for some weeks.

George R. Hunt, "95, is an attorney of Lexington,
Kentucky.

The business administration of the University has
been badly handicapped since the first of February by
the serious illness of the treasurer, Mr. Paul M. Pen-
ick, 96. An attack of flu which caused him to leave
his desk and stay in bed at his home later resulted in
various complications that made it advisable for him
to go to the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore
where he has been for about six weeks. His improve-
ment is extremely gradual and it seems probable he will
be in the hospital for at least six weeks more. Mrs.
Penick who has been with him writes that he has en-
joyed flowers from the Baltimore Alumni Association,
and visits and flowers from various alumni who were
in the city.

James R. K. Cowan, 97, farmer and county officer
of Christiansburg, Virginia, has just sent in his Direc-
tory questionnaire. Aiter three years of Varsity foot-
ball, he had the satisfaction of helping to beat V. M. I.
6-0 in the last game he played. We envy the men who
can remember that game!

Paul S. Felder, 97, is secretary and treasurer of
Philip Werlein, Ltd., 605 Canal Street, New Orleans,
Louisiana.

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

PERSONALS

Dr. and Mrs. LeRoy C. Barrett, 97, have left Lex-
ington for Princeton where Dr. Barrett will teach dur-
ing the spring. ‘They were called here by the illness
and death of Professor B. Harrison Waddell, and
remained in Lexington for several months.

sob Huff, 99, is practicing with the law firm of
Terrell, Davis, Huff and McMillan, of San Antonio,
‘Texas.

A. Hunter Boyd, ’68, for thirty-one years associate
and chief judge of the Fourth Judicial Circuit Court
of Maryland, and Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals
of Maryland, announces that he has retired from the
bench and will resume practice of law to a limited ex-
tent. He lives at 501 Washington Street, Cumberland,
Maryland.

J. B. Akers, 04, has been appointed assistant to the
vice-president of the Southern Railway System, with
headquarters at Washington, D. C. Mr. Akers for-
merly resided in Charlotte, North Carolina.

William J. Turner, 03, is assistant general manager
of the Braden Copper Company, Rancagua, Chile,
South America. After getting his C. E. from Cornell
in 1907, Turner went to Chile where he has been ever
since, with the exception of fourteen months when he
served in France as captain in the air service. Mar-
ried. One son four years old.

Major J. W. Bagley, ’03, is at Fort Humphreys,
Virginia, in command of the Topographic Battalion of
the Corps of Engineers of the Army. He is the lead-
ing expert in this country on methods of mapping by
photographs from airplanes. He developed the Bag-
ley three-lens and the Bagley four-lens cameras, which
are the main reliance of this work.

George FE. Haw, ’04, who has law offices in the Trav-
elers Building of Richmond, Virginia, writes: ‘For
the information of General Lee’s old boys who still re-
main, I wish to say that my father, George P. Haw,
of the class of 1867, at the ripe old age of 86 years,
is still interested in Washington and Lee, her past
and future.”

 

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

 

 

 

(ollege & School

Printers & Stationers

Fine Stationery and Engraving
Office Equipment and Supplies
College Publications

Fraternity Publications

We would appreciate your inguiries which will
receive our prompt and careful attention

 

SURBER-ARUNDAIE OMPANY

PUBLISHERS: PRINTERS STATIONERS
CHARLOTTESVILLE::: VIRGINIA

 

E

 

bine so many

requirements of both good

with us before deciding.
tions.

 

We challenge contradiction in saying that there is no other building material which, taken all in all, will com-
merits of quality and style, economy, strength and beauty in your home as face brick.

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple, and yet combines that strength and beauty which meets the
Other materials have their merits and make their appeal,
but looking at the building problem on all sides, no other material approaches brick in the structural and artistic
values it offers—permanence, comfort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty.

taste and a thrifty purse.

It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most valuable and practical sugges-

LOCHER AND COMPANY

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Members American Face Brick Association

You should talk the matter over

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

William R. Allen, ‘01, is an attorney for the Sin-
clair Refining Company living in Chicago, Illinois.

Dean Frederick Charles Meredith, ex-’05, of the Ca-
thedral of St. Luke, Ancon, Canal Zone, has been
elected deputy to the Triennial Convention of the

Episcopal Church which will meet in New Orleans,
October 7 to 28, 1925.

Robert LeWright. Browning, ’05, divides his activi-
ties between Ashland, Kentucky, and Maysville, Ken-
tucky, being a member of the law firm of Browning
and Reed in the former city, and Worthington, Brown-
ing and Reed in the latter.

Louis S. Epes, law graduate with honor in the class
of ’08, and a state senator of Virginia, is a candidate
for the Democratic nomination for State corporation
commission.

5S. L. Showalter, 08, having built up the business of
the Inter-State Life and Accident Company considera-
bly during the seven years he was manager at Gulf-
port, Mississippi, has been selected by the company to
be supervisor of agencies with headquarters at Nash-
ville, Tennessee. Mr. Showalter is married and has
one daughter.

Ward M. Heatwole, ’08, is Field Agent for the
Bureau of Internal Revenue with offices in Minneap-
olis. He is still single.

James McKim Bell, ’09, is chief engineer of con-
struction for the Sao Paulo Tramway, Light and
Power Company, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

Lester B. Dutrow, ’10, was recently appointed build-
ing inspector for Petersburg, Virginia.

T. Walter Fred, ’12, is president of the Davenport
Hosiery Mills, manufacturers of the well-known Hum-
ming Bird hosiery for women.

Wilbur C. Armentrout, ex-’10, is special agent for
the Equitable Life Assurance Society, Elkins, West
Virginia. |

Ewing S. Humphreys, ’10, is contracting engineer
for the Virginia Bridge and Iron Company in charge
of the Southeastern District Office at Atlanta, Georgia.

J. Presley Thornton, ’12, recently visited the U. S.
A. from China where he represents the Standard Oil
Company of New York. He visited his home in
Pensacola, Florida, for a time, and was the guest of
T. W. Allen; ’10, in New York City. After a stay of
about three months he left for the Pacific Coast and
sailed for the Orient. Mr. Thornton related some in-
teresting experiences with the Chinese during their
big battles and told of some narrow escapes.

R. R. Witt, Jr., °13, is manager of a wholesale hard-
ware business operating under the name of Builders
Supply Company, at San Antonio, Texas.

Edward Lee, ’13, with his wife and two children are
residing at Port Washington, Long Island.

C. M. Peck, ’14, is a member of the law firm of
Peck, Bunber and Cole, of Oakland and San Fran-
cisco, California.

H. L. Miller, ’14, is assistant manager of the New
River Grocery Company, at Hinton, West Virginia.

Stephen F. Chadwick, ’14, has a flourishing law
practice in Seattle, Washington. His offices are ia the
Colman Building,

C. D. Dethlefsen, ex-’15, is engaged in the practice
of law in Oakland and San Francisco.

Parker W. Buhrman, ’16, having served as consul
in Sweden, Finland, Honduras, Netherland, East Indies
and Syria, is now detailed to the Department of State,
Washington, D. C. His address is in care of the Uni-
versity Club.

Russell S. Rhodes, ’16, after having been manager of
the Bradstreet Company, Shreveport, for three and a
half years, resigned in January, 1924, to become sec-
retary of the Gulf States Belting and Hose Company
of the same city.

A. L. Bennett, ’16, of Charlottesville, Virginia,
county superintendent of schools in Albemarle county
has been awarded by the General Educational Board
of New York a scholarship for the scholastic year
1925-26 in either Harvard, Chicago or Columbia Uni-
versities. Mr. Bennett has chosen Harvard and ex-
pects to pursue graduate courses in education.

Thomas C. McRae, Jr., ’01, is cashier of the Bank
of Prescott, Prescott, Arkansas.

 

Office Phone 444

 

G. G. HARRIS
Contractor for Plumbing and Heating

Room 13, Knowles Building
Residence Phone 1008
STAUNTON, VA.

Estimates furnished promptly on any size job anywhere.

Plumbing and Heating Contractor for New Chemistry Building

Box 60

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

PERSONALS

Dr. Albert McCown, ’10, recently moved to Seattle,
Washington, from Tacoma.

R. B. Wine, ’12, is with a real estate company of
San Antonio.

Chick Evans, °16, and J. W. Claudy, 09, have writ-
ten that “barring accidents” they are coming down for
Finals. All roads will lead to Lexington from June
first to ninth.

George M. Gillespie, "17, is a partner in the law
frm of Gillespie and Gillespie with offices in the
Reisch Building, Springfield, Illinois.

Francis H. Styles, °17, is in the diplomatic service
as consul at Loanda, Angola, South Africa. He
writes: “I have seen the missionaries and some file-
toothed natives, but no cannibals. I heard that the
cannibals do not like Americans—they are too tough
and hard! So far I haven’t killed any big game but
[ have seen everything except lions and elephants and
before I leave I expect to kill a lion and a leopard or
two. At the present time Angola is nearly bankrupt
and it is interesting to see how the exchange is af-
fected—one gets thirty times as many escudos for his
dollars as at normal times. The other day I changed
$275 into escudos and it took two boys to carry the
notes in one-half escudo denominations! How is W.
and L,. progressing? Drop a line some time.”’

J. Hodgson Ball, ex-’17, is assistant manager and
buyer for the Ball Hardware Company, Sanford, Flor-
ida. He sells real estate on the side and writes that he
is still living the carefree life of a bachelor.

John L. McChord, ’18, is chief counsel for the Cleve-
land Automobile Club, and has an extensive private
practice. :

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas Mott Alexander, ’19, of
Charlotte, North Carolina, announce the birth of
Mary Sherrod Alexander on February twenty-second.
Mr. Alexander sells Hupmobiles in Charlotte.

E. N. Townes, ’20, who has been practicing law in
Petersburg Virginia, is a candidate for the office of
police justice of that city.

R. W. Lowe, ’20, is a mining engineer with the
Consolidated Coal Company at Jenkins, Kentucky.

John W. Kern, ’20, writes that he is practicing law
at 806 Merchants Bank Building, Indianapolis, and
administering justice as United States Commissioner.
He says that he is “interested to some extent in polli-
tics, though missing the aid and inspiration of ‘Fat’
sarrow, Henry F. Trotter, Howard McCain, Harry
surns, et al.”

T. M. Stubbs, ’20, is practicing in the courts of At-
lanta, Georgia.

George T. Parry, ’21, we learn, was “married last
summer amid much gaiety” and has settled down in
Indianapolis. He and John Kern are planning to
drive down to Finals.

 

WEINBERG'S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

COBB'S PRESSING SHOP

Dry Cleaning

PRESSING DYEING

 

 

Sandwiches Delivered Anywhere
to Students

Lexington Restaurant

 

 

36

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

FINE FURNITURE

Fraternity House Furnishing a Specialty

Correspondence from Fraternity Alumni

Given Especial Attention

ROOT-SMITH FURNITURE COMPANY

Furnishers of New Beta House

Lexington, Virginia

 

Compliments

STUDENTS’ PRESSING
SHOP

 

W. C. FIREBAUGH

INSURANCE ADVISOR

Rockbridge County’s Largest Agency Built
by Giving Service
Rooms 4 and 5, Rockbridge National Bank Building
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

Lyons Tailoring Co.

-

TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

COME IN OR WRITE US

 

 

PERSONALS

‘J. Lindsay Patton, ’22, was ordained deacon in
Trinity (Episcopal) Church, Greeley, Colorado, on
March fourth. He is canonically connected with the
diocese of Southwestern Virginia, having been a can-
didate from the Lexington church, though he will re-
main in Colorado for the present. He is finishing his
seminary course this year at St. John’s College, Gree-
ley, Colorado.

Huston St. Clair, ’22, is a medical student at the
University of Pennsylvania and expects to get his
M. D. in 1926.

D. R. Snively, ’22, is with the Maryland Mat Com-
pany of New York City as a salesman. He assisted
very actively in arrangements for the gatherings of
New York alumni held in April.

George Hepburn, ‘22, is practicing law in Hinton,
West Virginia.

Gordon Gibbons, ’22, has brought glory to Washing-
ton and Lee by winning the Florida state amateur golf
title for the second time on March 28. Gibbons de-
feated Frank Pope of New York in the finals.

T. Jean Ellis, 22, was a visitor on the campus for
the week-end recently. Ellis was one of the best
known men on the campus during his three years at
W. and L. and many of his old friends were still here
to greet him. Besides having a private law practice at
St. Louis, Missouri, he is employed in the law offices
of the St. Louis Southwestern Railway Company.

R. S. Weaver, Jr., B.A... M.A. (West Virginia),
LL.B. (Yale), who studied law at Washington and
Lee during the sessions 1921-22 and 1922-23, has en-
tered into a law partnership with state senator George
EF. Allen at Victoria, Virginia.

William C. Kern, ex-’23, after receiving his B.A.
from Princeton in 1923 is now attending the Harvard
Law School.

Max Allen, ’23, is manager of the savings depart-
ment of the Citizens Bank, Hattiesburg, Mississippi.
He was recently married to Miss Virginia Farrell.

The annual conference of seniors and graduate stu-
dents with the representatives of the Bell Telephone
System was held March 18 on the campus, when the
work offered by the system was discussed at length.
Several men are selected each summier after these con-
ferences. W. W. Manley, ’24, and “Shorty” Vest,
23, are employed in the Baltimore offices of this sys-
tem, and Rudolph Jones, ’23, in Roanoke.

Douglas K. Bemis, ’24, was a week-end visitor on
the campus recently. “Tiny,” who has many friends
among the students, reported that he is now working
with his brother Thomas, ’24 in a paper mill at Bas-
trop, Louisiana.

W. W. Poole, ex-’24, is in the lumber business at
East Radford, Virginia.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WAR LETTERS
(Continued from page 28)

The people are most hospitable. Every home is
open to us. The men are sleeping in barracks on
bunks once again.

Our senior first lieutenant has been given a com-
pany and that automatically gives me the rather
empty title of second in command. I am now the
oldest officer in point of service with the company
left with it. All who were with it when I came have
been transferred or promoted.

Best love, Clovis.

 

Sept. 15, 1918.

Dear Mamma and Papa:

All your good letters and cards were received the
day after my birthday. It was fine to be remembered
by you all. The day was spent by me doing nothing
since it was raining hard all day. We are in the hills
where everything natural looks like Virginia. There
are lots of vineyards and the people though peasants
are hospitable and pleasant. I am in the best of
health and in excellent spirits except when we have
a couple of days with nothing to do when I get to
thinking of home and get a little blue. But such
feelings are only fleeting.

The mail is about to leave, so I must close.

Best love, Clovis.

 

September 25, 1918.
Dear Mamma and Papa:

For about three weeks we have been living in the
woods in tents. It has been fine but for occasional
showers. ‘The autumn weather here is unlike that at
home in that it lacks the cool, crisp, clear days and
nights. I am feeling fine, am getting fat, and enjoy-
ing this way of living. We get lots to eat—fresh
beef, potatoes, beans, cabbage and light bread. Our
boys are in good spirits.and health. We have not
had a death in the company since we left America.
Nor have we had any casualty except one or two
accidents.

Best love, Clovis.

 

Dr. Smith made an address before the Greenville,
South Carolina, Kiwanis Club recently. Every mem-
ber of the club wore W. and L. Colors. A double
quartet rendered the Swing and Carry Me Back to Old
Virginia in the best style. It was Washington and
Lee day. Such activity should stimulate alumni in-
terest.

. +

Mr. J. N. Thomas, ’24, field agent of Washington
and Lee, will call upon alumni in Mississippi, Louis-
iana and Arkansas during the next six weeks.

37

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY'S

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

~McCRUMS°

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

‘ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

NEWTON D. BAKER PROBABLE PRESI-
DENT OF MICHIGAN UNIVERSITY

Campus opinion at the University of Michigan is
almost unanimous that Newton D. Baker, Secretary
of War in the Wilson cabinet, will be offered the presi-
dency of that institution as successor to Dr. M. L.
Burton who died during February. It is said that the
University senate and regents committee are giving
Mr. Baker serious consideration for the post as the
head of the institution.

Immediately preceding an address before the stu-
dent body of Michigan, Mr. Baker was entertained at
the home of Dean Harry M. Bates of the Michigan
Law School, a member of the committee selecting the
president.

Mr. Baker is a graduate of the Washington and
Lee Law school in the class of ’94, having had his
A. B. from Johns Hopkins in 1892. He returned to
the campus last year to be initiated into the local chap-
ter of Phi Beta Kappa.

Eddie Cameron, ’24, in addition to his fame as an
athlete has built up considerable reputation for him-
self by visiting nearby preparatory schools during the
past winter and talking to groups of boys. He has
recently been appointed an instructor in the School
of Commerce and is teaching classes in Political

Science.
* K ns

P. D. Gwaltney, III, ’24, resigned his position as
manager of the Smithfield Cotton Gin several months
ago and is now with the firm of P. D. Gwaltney, Jr.
and Company, general merchants, at Smithfield, Vir-
ginia.

 

BOOKS, STATIONERY, SUPPLIES
AND
ATHLETIC GOODS
Attractive Book Ends for Office Use

UNIveRsITY SUPPLY STORE, INC.

 

 

 

W. D. ANDERSON

Major W. D. Anderson, ’02, has assumed command
of the army engineer post at Fort Humphreys, Vir-
ginia, relieving Colonel Sherwood A. Cheney, recently
appointed chief military aid to the President.

Major Anderson was born at Lexington, Virginia,
and after leaving Washington and Lee attended West
Point where he graduated second in his class, and he
has been in the army ever since. In his rapid rise to
an important position in the world of military affairs,
Major Anderson follows in the footsteps of his father,
Major William A. Anderson, 61, of Civil War fame.

 

JULIUS KRUTTSCHNITT, ’73, RETIRES
(Continued from page 13)

the head of the Southern Railway, availing himself of
the generous and wise practice of the company to rec-
ognize efficient service long and faithfully performed.

“Those who have kept themselves informed of Mr,
Kruttschnitt’s accomplishments, resounding not only to
the interests of his company, but to those also of our
country at large, feel with him that his exercise of this
right is quite philosophical.

“The commercial world knows what Julius Krutt-
schnitt has accomplished, and how helpful his acts
have been in the wise development of so large a sec-
tion of our country, rendering the condition of those
occupying it more prosperous and their lives happier
because of the improvements. He has done much,
very much, towards bringing about a better under-
standing and kinder feeling between large corpora-
tions and those they are serving. I doubt not that
he regards this as really his greatest work. Having
earned rest, he now retires with the obligation of his
company to him for faithful service fully recognized
and with an honorable record of public service ren-
dered which stands and will long stand out for emula-
tion by the young men of his beloved South. Better
opportunities than he enjoyed are wide open to them.
If they will but follow his example in educating them-
selves; doing the absolutely necessary grinding work
of preparation; and then giving whatever work they
engage in the same ceaseless attention he gave his,
success is almost sure to come.”

 

There are a few copies of the Calyx for the year
1922-23 left over. If you want a copy send check for
$3.00 to W. H. Cluverius, Box 377, Lexington, Vir-
ginia.

 

