 

 

 

 

 

  

F

d

Lee Un

Ity

Ivers

ington an

Wash

 

Number 2

, 1929

APRIL

Volume V

 

 

  
 
 

 

MIDWINTER ACTIVITIES

$2.50 Per Year

25c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business

at a distance, or of a special professional character.

Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-

tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

rectory. Rates on application.

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
AtTTORNEY-AT-LAW

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg.,
Atlantic. City, N. J.

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAWYER

General practice in all State and
Federal

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg.,
Huntington, West Virginia

Courts

R. EF. MOORE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.,
Bluefield, W. Va.

EDMUND D,. CAMPBELL, ’18 and ’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

DoucLAs, Oskar & DoucLAs

Southern Building, Washington, D.. C.

 

WE COLLECT IN ANY CITY IN
THE UNITED STATES

K. & T. ADJUSTMENT BUREAU
Reports, COLLECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS

All Business Strictly Confidential

Room 206 Kleeman Building, Summers St.

Charleston, W. Va.

 

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE

Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Florida

W. H. Jackson, 08 J. W. Duprer, ‘21

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS
Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401 Philadelphia

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

 

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
AvTTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virgina

 

Compliments of the President of the

Alumni, Inc.

EK. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

Walter E. McDougle, LL.B., ’91
Robert B. McDougle, B.A., 717, LL.B., ’20

McDOUGLE and McDOUGLE
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW.
25-27-29 Citizens National Bank Building
Parkersburg, W. Va.

 

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713
ATTORNEY At LAW

811 Boxley Building,
~ Roanoke, Virginia

 

James E.. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
LAW OFFICES
Commercial National Bank Building,

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
Lewisburg, W. Va.

H. B. Moore, Principal

J. M. Moors, '08, Assistant Principal

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, 710

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L,., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

 

LHE AILIMINE MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

| Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
E. C. Carrrey, President VERBON E,. Kemp, Editor
EL. GRAHAM, JR., Treasurer Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

\

— ee eee

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15. 1924.

CONTENTS

: ‘ PAGE PAGE
Thee Weat 2 a. So 2 5 er he 23
Administration ee Po 5 Report on Founder’s Day Address .............. 25
Student Body eee. 2 ee 0 Personas ...5....: a ae a 26
Faculty ee oe. ee is Obituary ee a ee. 27
Athieies | i ee. ee ee 12 (Greenbrier 2......... a. Be 31
Ledeen eo 18 POOR ey Co OL.
Memoralelia 2. ....... 2.0 ee 0 ew | 82
Alam ee ke ee es 20

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE.

Seeon’ BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON

(Prices on application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Rabon E.-Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Girone wall Jackson, size 7 x 9 pened 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid _—'1..50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

   

 

WHeErRE GENERAL LEE WoRSHIPPED

 

i

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

VoL. V | APRIL, 1929 IG. 2

 

THE YEAR

Washington and Lee basketeers completed an
epochal season with only one defeat against them;
went to Atlanta as favorites to win the Southern
Conference tournament, lost to “Ole Miss” in the
second round of tournament play.

Grieved and handicapped by the death of their
able Chairman, John S. Munce of Richmond, the
Board’s committee on the presidency advanced
slowly in their effort to acceptably fill the president’ S
chair at Washington and Lee. :

An unusually large number of students were
dropped from the rolls at the end of the first
semester because of scholastic failure and the work-
ings of the famed automatic rule.

Announcement of the election of nineteen students
and alumni Hugh Bell Sproul, 92, Dr. L. J. Desha,
06, F. W. McWane, 714, to membership in Omicron
Delta Kappa was made at an assembly at which
trustee-alumnus Sproul spoke under the auspices of
that organization.

The annual Fancy Dress Ball came and wept in a
riot of color and a blaze of splendor. It was esti-
mated that two thousand people participated in it
vicariously or in person.

Plans of the Sigma Nu and Phi Delta Theta ae
ternities to build houses in the college fraternity park
neared fruition; Alpha Tau Omega announced early
construction of a $35,000 house on their present site.

The Washington and Lee Athletic Association an-
nounced the election of Eugene Oberst, Notre Dame
football and track star and assistant football and
baseball coach at DePauw University, as Head
Coach of Washington and Lee. He will be a full-

time employee of the Athletic Association.

Varsity and Freshman Swimming teams under the
direction of Coach “Cy” Twombly achieved an en-
viable record during their 1929 season.

The baseball season loomed with dull prospects.
Graduation last year left few veterans for the 1929
line up. A paucity of catchers and pitchers gives
Coach “Dick” Smith considerable worry.

Proposals by Virginia power interests to dam
North River, create a large artificial lake at its upper
end and build a power generating plant in Goshen
Pass caused considerable commotion throughout the
state in general and in Rockbridge County in partic-
ular.

Alumni met in Richmond, Va., reelected C. H.
Morrisette, 715, as president, C. M. Moss, 718, Vice-

president and O. M. Stumpf, ’19, Secretary; pledged
$50 for the Lee statue to be placed in the old House
of Delegates in Richmond; heard Gov. Harry F. Byrd
outline the proposal for the statue’s erection.

Alumni planned to meet in Washington, D. C., Sat-
urday, March 23, to provide a scholarship for Dis-
trict of Columbia entrants at Washington and Lee.

President Smith planned a home in Greensboro, N.
C. The Y. M. C. A. sought a Secretary. Alumni
continued their helpful interest in the choice of a
president. :

ae
oo

ADMINISTRATION
MAN SEEKING:

Responsibilities:

An office seeks a man. ‘The office, responsible to
a Board of Trustees, is charged with the supervision
of physical property evaluated at $1,650,000, the in-
vestment of a $1,425,000 Endowment Fund, the ad-
ministration of fixed annual income of $110,000
(from property and endowment) and a fluctuating
income of $190,000 (from student tuition fees) ;
with the employment and direction of 100 employees ;
with the supervision and direction of the daily lives
and studies of 900 young men between the ages of
18 and 22 drawn from socially, economically and
geographically diverse sections; with the preserva-
tion and perpetuation of traditions and ideals estab-
lished during 180 years of existence; with the vari-
ously ramified public relationships of the institution
thus composed.

Attractions:

Occupancy of the plain but commodious twelve
room residence built for and by General Robert E.
Lee and in which he died; an (present) annual sal-
ary of $7,500; the direction of a peculiarly well es-
tablished and going institution with distinct tradi-
tions, an unexcelled name, widely distributed patron-
age, an able faculty and unique potentialities; the
expectancy of the $1,800,000 Doremus bequest now
held in trust.

Detractions:

Inadequate funds; incohesion of collective faculty,
alumni and student interests; an undefined educa-
tional policy; high student tuition fees. and a small

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

portion of the widespread but transitory confusion in
the general ideals, purposes and methods of higher
education; the diverse responsibilities of the office.

SEEKERS:

Trustees:

Grieved and handicapped by the death of ‘Trustee
John S. Munce, conscientious, faithful and efficient
chairman of the Board’s committee on the presidency,
trustees halted, took over his investigations, contin-
ued the search under the direction of Committeemen
Hugh B. Sproul, ’92, John W. Davis, 92, W. A.
MacCorkle, ’78 and Rector George W. St. Clair, ’91.

Alumni:

Recommendations and suggestions were solicited or
voluntarily received from numerous interested alumni,
were filed with Alumni Committee Chairman J. Mor-
rison Hutcheson, ’02, were assimilated and condensed
for presentation to University trustees.

Faculty:

Advisory committeemen on the presidency sug-
gested and investigated possible prospects for the of-
fice, conferred with Board committee members.

CENTRALIZATION:

A dozen telephone lines enter Washington and Lee
offices, terminate in almost as many more extensions.
A dozen or more important offices are without direct
telephones or extensions. B. A. Kepler, B. S. ’28,
designed an inter communicating automatic central
telephone system for Washington and Lee as his
graduate thesis in Electrical Engineering. Dr. R. W.
Dickey, ’10, has presented Kepler’s plan for the at-
tention of the University Board of Trustees.

As a small college W. & LL. administrative activity
was confined to a portion of Newcomb Hall. With
growth and expansion faculty offices were spread
throughout the various college buildings; athletic
headquarters located in the gymnasium; the Y. M. C.
A. office established ; alumni and student body officers
located in the old McLaughlin house. The need for
centralization arose. :

Largely under Dr. Dickey’s direction centralized
heating has been extended to all college buildings and
to many faculty residences. Other prospects for
centralization are publicity, mailing, filing, accounting
and stenographic service.

REGISTRATION:

Entrants for the second semester increased the
1928-29 student registration to 930, largest registra-
tion in Washington and Lee history. Departures and

withdrawals (voluntarily or by request) at the end of
the first semester brought the actual attendance down
to less than 900. ,

pe agg ee
°

STUDENT BODY
BOOZE: |

The use of intoxicants is as old as the race. Myth-
ical Olympians imbibed, generated Bacchanalian leg-
ends. Intoxicants brought filial shame upon Noah,
Solomon to proverbial admonition, Rome to decline
and the United States to prohibitory legislation.

Dry forces attribute the trebled enrollment in
American colleges since 1920 to prohibition. Varied
forces view the consumption of booze by this enlarged
enrollment with considerable alarm.

Alarms are based upon indulgence by youth—a gen-
eral problem. Colleges, as centers of youth, bear the
burden of critical attack—no specific problem of the
colleges alone.

Booze made Washington and Lee news on three
recent occasions:

Game:

A few spectators at the Thanksgiving Va.-Carolina
football game in Charlottesville gurgled and _ splut-
tered the contents of vari-shaped bottles and hip
flasks ;,an anti-saloon leader reported the gurglings to
Governor Byrd and the Virginia press. Agitation
grew. An investigation was ordered. Rumor was
that State sleuths disguised as students would be
placed on every college campus, would spy in frater-
nity houses. President Henry Louis Smith, teetotaler,
ardent dry, emphatically announced through the press
that such methods were inimical to the spirit and tra-
ditions of Washington and Lee, would not be tol-
erated here. Plans for investigation went forward,
but the rumored spy system was abandoned.

Blue Coats:

Many costumes were in evidence at the Annual
Fancy Dress Ball. Two men in police uniforms wore
large square-toed shoes, unfitted for dancing. Non-
participants, they were relegated to the gym basement.
They might have been present for protection against
fire, thievery or gate crashers. But the Ring-tum Phi,
student semi-weekly, discovered that the blue coats
had been officially posted for the prevention of booze
consumption, indulged in righteous wrath, defended
student dance conduct.

Letter:

An Alumnus, “not a prude or a teetotaler’’ compli-
mented the Ring-tum Phi on an article concerning a
student movement for better dances, also said “I was

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

sorry to note your article did not mention any plans
to eliminate excessive drinking and—yes, sometimes
excessive (?) petting parties too,” and “I am ashamed
to hear the names of Washington and our adored Lee
dragged in the mire through the conduct of its
dances.” Again the Ring-tum Phi came to eclitorial
defense of its student constituents.

Regulation:

Washington and Lee dances are regulated by a stu-
dent dance control committee in co-operation with
Faculty social functions committeemen, are efficiently
chaperoned by selected Faculty wives. Students are
not allowed to attend a dance if drinking or drunk
later than six hours prior to the start of the dance.
Student penalties range from disbarment from one to
all future dances of the year. Visitors must be
vouched for in writing by a student. Infractions by
visitors penalize the student vouchers as if they were
the violators. Alumni are not admitted if intoxicated
or near thereto; are dealt with ee to the case
and occasion.

Workings:

Student conduct on the dance floor under the ex-
cellent student dance control system is above reproach,
is effectively regulated. Inefficient administration of
the somewhat cumbersome and slightly unjust visitors’
vouching system has led to some laxity. Alumni dis-
turbers of the dance floor peace are exclusively lim-
ited to non-graduates of very recent departure.
Alumni of any maturity never offend, are urged to
participate more generally in student social affairs.

Conditions:

State investigation, Blue Coats, and kindly critical
letters arise from the complex composition of Col-
lege festive affairs. Students, visiting girls, visiting
students from nearby colleges, visiting families and
visiting alumni attend. Of these attendants the local
students (and college) are alone held responsible.
Some students, here as elsewhere, do drink excessively
on occasion. But student drinkers do not attend the
dances while drinking; are on the fringe of festive
activity. Also misleading is the expansive ill report
created by a fractional group of alcoholic revellers.
One non-dancing student host, two ‘“broad-minded”
and unchaperoned visiting girls, two visitors from a
nearby college and one alumnus (who flunked out
last year) rowdily packed into a collegiate Ford with
a quantity of bootleg booze may create the impression

among undiscriminating and critical observers that

fully one-half the student body is on a spree.

AULTOMATIC MULE:

Students receiving the grade of “F” in two sub-
jects, “E”’ in three, or failing to pass nine semester
hours of work during a term (half year) are auto-
matically dropped from the University. The “kick”
in the rule has changed it to “Mule” and supported
the University’s happy advancement in_ scholastic
standing. |

Reinstatements are sometimes granted, particularly
to freshmen, upon Faculty consideration of individual
cases. But, true to its traditional nature, the mule
is becoming more stubborn, the scholastic require-
ments more strict.

“Flu” and unwise spending of unwise spending al-
lowances drew an unusual number of automatic kicks
at the close of the first semester, brought a iong file
of applicants for reinstatement before the Dean;
prematurely bore many embryo alumni.

ARGUMENTS:

Educated, arguments become debates or forensic
activity. Washington and Lee lagged far behind in
the ancient art of verbal combat, discovered its like-
ness to more popular and better organized varieties
of physical combat, followed the  inter-collegiate
athletic model; is resurrecting the valued but dis-
carded skeleton. |

At Chicago the Generals’ Debating Team engaged
the Kent college of Law before a little black bcx, sent
their voices by radio to judging listeners, won by a
radio audience vote of 150 to 8&4 on the affirmative

of “Resolved that Cony should pass uniform
marriage and divorce laws.”

At Ohio Wesleyan University the W. & L. de-
baters lost by a bare nose of four Open Forum votes
on the affirmative of “Resolved that trial by jury
should be abolished.” On the same question they ar-
cued, in a no decision contest, with Miami University.
Their next engagement will be with Princeton Uni-
versity, here on April 10.

Direct credit for the increased interest in argu-
mentative activity goes to Public Speaking Professor
M. G. Bower. Indirect and greater credit goes to
President Henry Louis Smith, who has long advo-
cated, against peculiar opposition, the development of
a department of Public Speaking.

SPRING HOPS: a.

Students go home or on vacation trips during the
three Easter Holidays, leave the annual Easter dances
“to darkness and to me.” Meager attendance at the
Faster dances brought about a student petition for
the reduction of the Easter vacation by one day, for
a holiday Saturday, April 20; for permission to hold
the annual spring dances Friday and Saturday, April

 

 

 

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

F. W. McWany, "13
—Graduated too soon

19 and 20 instead of April 1 and 2. The petition
was granted.

iF 2). K.>

National inter-collegiate organizations existed for
the recognition of scholarship, of forensic prowess,
etc. None recognized all branches of campus leader-
ship. In 1914 a group of Washington and Lee stu-
dents organized the Omicron Delta Kappa Society to
relieve the deficiency. Since that time twenty-three
chapters, called circles, have been established in col-
leges from Texas and Ohio to the Atlantic seaboard.

Membership is awarded each year to student lead-
ers in athletics, publications, scholarship, religious, so-
cial and government activity; conferred upon alumni
and faculty of distinction. Elections to membership
are held secretly, are now announced at a student as-
sembly by a tapping ceremony, are followed with an
address by a special speaker selected by the Society.

Students assembled, heard W. J. Dorsey, president
of the W. & L. Circle outline the purposes and ideals
of the organization; heard him announce the elec-
tions to membership; saw members tap V. J. Barr-
nett, football full-back, D. C. Eberhardt, Jr., and A.
C. Jones, football half-backs, William H. Hawkins,
football tackle and czaptain-elect, Meyer Seligman,
football guard, T. G. Gibson, Fancy Dress Ball
leader, A. C. Bush, Jr., Cotillion Club president,
H. P. Johnston, Ring-tum Phi editor, C. C. Hutchin-
son, Jr., Calyx editor, A. B. Morgan, Ring-tum Phi

tion, Phi Beta Kappa.

Manager, R. D. Powers, Jr., Calyx manager, G. H.
Lanier, Jr., football manager, T. B. Fitzhugh basket-
ball manager, J. P. Lowry, basketball forward and
Capt., E. M. Wood, basketball guard, and G. N.
Lowden, baseball outfielder, H. G. Morrison, cheer
leader, H. C. Rand, Jr., student body vice-president,
and Stanley F. Hampton, Y. M. C. A., president,
alumnus-trustee Hugh Bell Sproul, 7°92, alumnus-
professor L. J. Desha, ’06 and alumnus F. W. Mc-
Wane, 713.

Trustee-Alumnus O. D. K. “pledge,” H. B. Sproul,
’O2, fainee ot Ee BB. Sproul, Ir. “2/,2and M. M.
Sproul, ’29, appropriately chose “Leadership” as his
subject, and simply defined its demands, limitations
and complex composition; spoke of the outstanding
need for dynamic Christian leadership in and out of
college, intrigued students with his plain and practical
illustrations. |

Alumnus Prof. L. J. Desha, ’06, professor of
Chemistry, took his doctors degree at Johns Hopkins,
was professor of Chemistry at the University of
Tennessee, was Captain overseas in the Army Sani-
tary Corps 1917-19; has ably served the University
and the student-body in various capacities, has ren-
dered distinct service as Chairman of the Faculty Com-
mittee on Social Functions.

As a student Fred McWane, 13, was nianager of
the football team, President of the Athletic Associa-
Had Omicron Delta Kappa
been established here a year earlier he would have
been a member. After graduation, family interests
took him to Anniston, Alabama, with the McWane
Pipe and Foundry Co., back to Lynchburg with the
Lynchburg Foundry Co. Last year he established F.
W. McWane & Co., Investment & Securities business,
became its director. Deeply rooted Washington and
Lee interests kept him in close and co-operative con-
tact with the University, made him president of the »
Lynchburg Alumni Chapter, made him an O. D. K.
“pledge.”

COLLEGIATE:

A college attendant lives at least two ltves—one as
a student whose intellectual development engages Col-
lege professors—the other as a collegiate—a product
of campus social and spiritual conditions—whose foi-
bles and habits harass College Deans.

Is this a Jekyl and Hyde existence, or are they re-
lated phases of the same phenomenon? The Dean of
George Washington University has invited other col-
lege deans to examine the question with him.

Ungartered socks, unpressed trousers, unshaved
faces, sterotyped speech, deliberate rudeness, flashy
dress, assumed sophistication, cave-mannishness. char-
acterize the collegiate. Exaggerations in the humor-
ous press, the movies and on the vaudeville stage have

Dek Le Rtg onl i

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

stimulated collegiateness, have perturbed fond parents ;
have led the George Washington Dean to seek the con-
nection (if any) between being a collegiate and drink-
ing, necking, neglect of class work, dishonesty and
other ethical problems. |

TOWARD INTERNATIONAL MINDEDNESS:

Educational Conference:

Current world problems in education, industry and
region, with particular stress on their aspect in the
Far East, were discussed in a two-day conference
held here February.25 and 26. The conference met
under the auspices of the University Y. M. C. A,,
directed by Craig H. Patterson, ‘19, secretary.

Speakers, presenting a wide outlook on social and
international problems made five addresses. The
conference opened Monday morning at Doremus
Memorial Gymnasium. Fletcher $. Brockman, ad-
ministrative secretary for the Y. M. C. A. in the Far
East, told how American scientists and educators in
the last three decades have brought modernity of
thought and living in China.

Mr. Brockman delivered another address on Mon-
day evening in Lee Chapel, under the auspices of the
history department, on the historical aspects of the
international relationships in the Pacific Basin. Mr.
Brockman has studied and lived in the Far East for
thirty years.

Other speakers on the two-day session were: James
Myers, author and industrial secretary of the federal
council of churches, who delivered an address on
Tuesday morning in Lee chapel on “Americanizing
Industry.” :

In his speech, sponsored by the school of commerce,
Mr. Myers sketched the main faults with the present
plan of industrial government and advocated the theory
of representative government in industry.

Tom Tippett, member of the faculty and director
of the extension division of Brookwood Labor college,

lectured next on “Southern Industry and Labor Prob-

lems.” ‘he speaker said that the South’s problem lay
in the reorganization of its white labor along a more
Democratic basis. He urged that the industrialists of
the South profit by the errors of the factory system
of the North.

The conference closed Tuesday evening in Lee
chapel, when Floyd Shacklock, a graduate of Nebraska
Wesleyan, and candidate’s secretary of the student
volunteer movement, spoke on Japanese poetry. The
lecture, sponsored by the English department, brought
out the sharp contrast between Japanese and American
poetry. Mr. Shacklock traveled and worked in Japan
for six years, and took part in educational enterprises,
studying oriental poetry and philosophy.

FANCY DRESS:

Miss Annie White directed and staged a student
play in 1905. A surplus of $44.00 was left trom its
presentation. Problem: the disposal of the unused
surplus. Why not give the students a dance? Thus
the present annual Fancy Dress Ball was originated.
Faculty families furnished refreshments. A V. M. I.
orchestra furnished the music. Costumes, mostly un-
danceable King Arthur armor, were ordered from
Philadelphia. The $44 sufficed.

Upon Miss Annie’s retirement in 1922, Prof. C. KE.
L, Gill became director, made the ball into a gigantic
spectacle, part staging, part pantomime, part scenic
effect, part dance; cut a pattern of excellence to which
all of his subsequent productions have adhered.

Approximately two thousand persons gathered at
the gymnasium for the 1929 Bal Oriental on Feb. 22,
saw the resplendent introductory parade led by L. F.
Powell of Richmond, saw disconsolate Sultan Scharyar
(T. G. Gibson) receive from his throne the supplica-
tions of Princess Scheherzade (Miss Sophie Dunlop
of Mobile, Ala.), saw the beguiling stories of Scheher-
zade interpreted by elaborately costumed groups in
pantomime to represent Ali Baba and the Forty
Thieves, “The Shipwreck of Sinbad” &c., &c., saw
Miss Elinor Fry and her pupils interpret the Spirit of
the East in a series of graceful dances, saw Scheher-
zade ascend and share the throne of the no longer
disconsolate Sultan. :

Gorgeous and resplendent the 1929 Ball was marked
for harmony and taste of costumes; deft execution ;
rich decorations; by the record breaking attendance.

As the ball has grown the expense has increased pro-
gressively. The original $44.00 was multiplied more
than a hundred-fold to meet the necessary expense of
the 1929 Ball. Modern participants and witnesses
would justify the increase. ,

FRATERNITIES:

The Declaration of Independence had been signed.
Concepts of political and social entity permeated the
new-born nation. Organisms created organizations.
Socially and scholastically minded students at the Col-
lege of William and Mary formed a fraternity on Dec.
5, 1776, called it Phi Beta Kappa; established a model
for 73 National College men’s social fraternities with
2,430 active chapters, 554,937 active members and
$52,980,155 worth of real property. —

Phi Beta Kappa became less fraternal, more honor-
ary, a symbol of high scholarship. Its followers, the
seventy-three undergraduate fraternities for men, re-
tained and enlarged its social features.

Nineteen of these national organizations were actively
represented on the Washington and Lee Campus; one
has been temporarily withdrawn (Zeta Beta Tau).
Growth has brought about natural segregation. Fra-

 

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ternities own or rent chapter houses in which their
members meet and live. Ordinary residences are un-
suitable for fraternity occupancy. ‘To buy or build a
suitable fraternity home is the ambition of everv local
chapter. :

The University authorities concur with this ambition,
have set aside a Fraternity Park between lower Main
Street and the college entrance through the Memorial
Gates, will grant generous loans to qualified building
aspirants. Beta Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Sigma were
the first builders in the Fraternity Park. Recent indi-
cations are that Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Nu will
soon adjoin them.

Other Fraternities, disdaining fraternal proximity
have bought or built in the Lexington residential dis-
tricts. Most recent has been the completion of the at-
tractive Delta Tau Delta House at 106 Lee Ave., the
announcement that Alpha Tau Omega would soon
start construction on their present site at 408 S. Main
Street.

Addresses, dates of establishment here, housing con-
dition or aspirations, and student leaders of the vari-
ous fraternities represented here are as follows:

Phi Kappa Psi, 1855, 301 Washington St., rented,
Joseph M. Holt.

Beta Theta Pi, 1856, Fraternity Park, built and
owned, C. W. Gordon.

*Kappa Alpha, 1865, 301 Letcher Ave., owned, Wm.
A. Ward.

tApha Tau Omega, 1865, 408 So. Main St., owned,
new building imminent, H. P. Johnston.

Sigma Chi, 1866, 116 W. Washington St., owned,
W. A. Plummer. :

Sigma Alpha Epsilon, 1869, 505 So. Main St., rented, -

J. 1. Rule.

Phi Gamma Delta, 1868, 112 Preston St., owned,
W. H. Hawkins. —

Kappa Sigma, 1873, 516 So. Main St., owned, T.
B. Fitzhugh. ;

Sigma Nu, 1882, 506 So. Main St., rented, Fra-
ternity Park building seriously contemplated, W. P.
Ritchie.

Phi Delta Theta, 1887, 3 University Place, rented,
Fraternity Park Bldg., seriously contemplated. G. H.
Lanier, Jr.

Pi Kappa Alpha, 1892, 302 Jackson Ave., owned,
McRee Davis.

Phi Kappa Sigma, 1894, Fraternity Park, built
and owned, L. F. Powell. ;

Delta Tau Delta, 1896, 106 Lee Ave., owned and
reconstructed, W. B. Harrington.

Sigma Phi Epsilon, 1905, 503 Jackson Ave., owned,
Frank W. McCluer.

*Founded at Washington and Lee.
+Founded at V. M. I.

Alpha Chi Rho, 1907, 214 W. Washington 5t.,
owned, J. R. Moffatt.

Pi Kappa Phi, 1920, 401 So. Main St., rented, John
Bell ‘Towill. |

Zeta Beta ‘Tau, 1920, suspended.

Phi Epsilon: Pi, 1920, 511 So. Main St., rented,
J. J. Salinger. :

Lamda Chi Alpha, 1922, 119 W. Washington St.,
Wm. S. Price.

FRATERNITY SCHOLARSHIP AVERAGES.

Fraternity Average
miema a Ue oes 78.187
rome PhivWopelon 6 ee ol AUT ae
Popha Ao Kies ee . 73.446
mime NU oo ee. kl, 75.285
Phi Ipsilon’ Pr 20s. gees ol. 75.279
re -Welta Vheta oo cpocve ee Chas. 75.20
Beta Vee Pie oes 74.858
phi Kappes Siena 74.639
PhicKappa Psi oi... eS. a 74.634
betas Cl Alphas eee a ea, 74.083
Wee. Van Dela eae a 74.027
Mopper 73.858
he i ee ee 73.642
Pee Gaine Dein i i ho a 73.50r
We eee lle eee ee. 73.310
Soom Ole Ppsilomee.... i. ee (o2se
gaplaa Ga meow.” fo 72.881
Di Wappe Gt os ea ee ae 70.513
Amcaces (local... fine ye ae 76.526
INITIATIONS:

Chickens go to classes; goats ride coaster wagons
and skates, wear rompers and other imcongruous ap-
parel, orate on the public squares, auction the Court
House, during the week preceding their various fra-
ternal initiations. Such is “Hell Week.”

Eighteen national fraternity chapters and one locat
club (Arcades) initiated 152 goats during the latter
part of February, surprised themselves and others by
the lack of public display during their annual siege of
horseplay. :

NEIGHBORS:

U. of Va.:

Coachless by the resignation of Earl “Greasy” Neal,
the Cavalier athletic authorities elected F. C. Abel,
Colgate all-American tackle, °15, one time mentor at
V. M. I., at Sewanee and Miss. A. M., head football
coach at Colgate, to the position of football and base-
ball coach at the U. of Va.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE a 11

Vv. M. L.:

William H. Cocke, alumnus of V. M. I., successful

lawyer and business man became superintendert of his
alma mater in 1924, inherited a long-brewing storm of
internal and external dissention; survived to achieve
many epochal accomplishments, the minimization of
hazing, the development of highly efficient centralized
business administration, the erection of a commodious
new gymnasium and many another addition and im-
provement during the five short years.

Not least among the accomplishments indirectly at-
tributable to General Cocke is the era of good feeling
now existing between Washington and Lee students
and V. M. I. “Keydets”’—an era exemplified in the
following editorial from the “Cadet,” V. M. I. student
newspaper :

“Old Yell for W. & L.

“This was the feeling that permeated the hearts of
fifty or more First Classmen as they reluctantly left
the Washington and Lee Fancy Dress Ball last Friday
night.

“From a colonial campus covered with a_ blanket
of snow one was suddenly shifted to the pomp and
splendor of ancient Oriental pageantry. The figure
was magnificent, the music was all that one might ex-
pect from Ted Weems and his orchestra, the settings
were beautiful, the costumes were colorful and indi-
vidual, and the young ladies charming. Fantastic
figure, mischievous music, stunning settings, colorful
costumes and lovely young ladies blended and combined
to make the Fancy Dress Ball this year well above the
standard of other years, and again one of the South’s
most brilliant dances.

“Old Yell for W. & L.! Make it loud.”

Business responsibilities and poor health brought
about General Cocke’s resignation, effective July 1,
1929. Rumored as his successor is Major General J.
A. Lejeune, retired Commandant of the U. S. Marines.

Se ee
°

FACULTY

Among works on Virginia history now being pre-
pared are the “Life and Times of John Letcher,” by
W. G. Bean, Associate Professor of History, “Repu-
diation of State Debts in the Ante-bellum South,” by
L.. C. Helderman, Assistant Professor of History, and
more than twenty articles for the dictionary of Ameri-
can Biography by Dr. F. L. Riley, Professor of His-
tory.

Professor William L. Mapel, Assistant Professor
of Journalism, spoke before the Intercollegiate Press
Association of West Virginia at Huntington, Satur-
day, February 23; said “Let me make the newspapers
and I don’t care a rap who makes the laws or the re-
ligions.”

Dr. F. L. Riley, pro-
fessor of history, under
treatment at Johns Hop-
kins, has returned to
Lexington, announced
his plan to resume work
in the early spring.

De GD Hancock
dean of the School of
Commerce and _ Busi-
ness Administration,
addressed members of
the Roanoke Chapter,
American Institute of
banking on the subject
of Federal Reserve Bank Functions and the Money
Market, -at the Roanoke Chamber of Commerce,
Monday evening, February 11. He was introduced
by R..G. Whittle, “22.

Charles P. Light, Law professor, addressed the
Current Events Club of Staunton on Legal Aspects
of Everyday Life. |

Dr. James Lewis Howe, professor of Chemistry
and Dean of the School of Applied Science addressed
the Spex Club of Lynchburg, on recent developments
in chemistry, Friday evening, February 8.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, Professor of Economics
and Business Administration was called to Raleigh
by the American Association for the Promotion of
Labor Legislation, for consultation in connection with
proposed and pending enactments on Workmen’s
Compensation law by the North Carolina Legislature.
He returned by way of Richmond, Va., where he ad-
dressed the Association of Virginia Colleges on the
present and future of Virginia education, said “A
culture based on machinery is much more to be de-
sired than a culture based on slavery.”

Dr. Wm. M. Brown, 713, attended the assembly of
Kappa Phi Kappa, honorary education fraternity,
was made editor of that organization’s magazine; pre-
sided at the Convention of the Association of Virginia
Colleges at Richmond; spoke before the National
Convention of the Democratic Women’s Law En-
forcement League at Washington, D. C.; was elected
a junior deacon of the grand lodge of Virginia Ma-
sons; was reelected National Secretary and Magazine
Editor of Omicron Delta Kappa at the U. of Alabama
National Convention; planned to deliver a series of
six lectures on child psychology at Lynchburg; to de-
liver the commencement address at Danville, Va.,
High School on June 1; to teach at the U. of Cali-
fornia Summer School in 1930. |

 

Dr. G. D. Hancock

CHEMISTRY IN REVIEW:

After fifty-three years of study and research in

 

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

science, Dr. James Lewis Howe, dean of the School
of Applied Science at Washington and Lee, sat in his
office here and recalled the seven-league strides of
chemistry in the half-century.

Dr. Howe heads a school begun in 1866 by General
Robert E. Lee while president of the institution. The
first professor in charge was Colonel William Allan,
who had been chief ordnance officer in the second
corps of the army of Northern Virginia. General
Allan was followed by General Custis Lee, who suc-
ceeded his father as president.

“When I began study,’ Dr. Howe said, “most
American students went to German finishing schools.
There were no schools for that purpose in this coun-
try. When I came to Washington and Lee, teachers
usually attended Johns Hopkins University. There
were then a few schools being started’ under the in-
fluence of Hopkins.”

“Upon my arrival at Washington and Lee,” Dr
Howe continued, “I found that a thirty-by-sixty-foot
chemical laboratory, now the power house, had just
been built. Thirty-five students were studying chem-
istry and only two were working in the laboratory.
There are now 194 chemical students enrolled.

The chemical library then consisted of seven vol-
umes. It now has more than 5,000 and occupies four
rooms.”

Aluminum in 1880, according to Dr. Howe, was
hardly more than a chemical curiosity. A short while
later, three graduate students, Castner of Colorado,
Cowles of Case School of Applied Science at Cleve-
land, Ohio, and Cyrus Hall of Oberlin, believed
aluminum would be useful and attacked the problem
of getting it cheaply. |

Dr. Howe also recalled that rayon silk grew out of
the war and the need for intro-celluloses. ‘These cell-
uloses, when mixed with ether and alcohol, left a film.
This film when mixed with camphor brought cellu-
loid. Someone devised a method of dividing it into
threads by dissolving it and then running it through a
process of spinning.

Rayon silk marks the first time a new textile has
made such a decided influence on an old product. It
can be used alone or with cotton, silk, or wool. One-
fifth of all hosiery today contains rayon. Millions of
yards of cloth, wholly or in part rayon, are made an-
nually. Capital investment in this textile in the South-
ern States alone amounts to $100,000,000. The out-
put in rayon in 1913, when it was starting, was
24,000,000 pounds; four years ago, 142,000,000; and
last year 250,000,000. About one-third of this out-
put came from the United States and a good propor-
tion from Virginia.

“Tuberculin was discovered while I was dean of
the Hospital College of Medicine at Louisville, Ken-
tucky. In 1890, I caused some to be brought for ex-
perimental purposes directly from the discoverer to

Louisville. ‘This was the beginning of the systematic
attack on tuberculosis. ‘Tuberculin’s chief use today
is in testing herds of cows.

“My most interesting study has been that of ruthe-
nium,’ he continued. ‘Several years ago I had some
residues sent over from the Academy of Science at
St. Petersburg, Russia. My experience had always
been with samples of ruthenium without osmium. It
never occurred to me when the small brown bottle ar-
rived to look at its label. A few minutes after I be-
gan my experiment with the residue, I smelled a pe-
culiar vapor rising from the container. Suddenly I
recognized it as osnic acid, a very poisonous gas, and
stopped the experiment instantly.”

The scientist walked into his laboratory adjoining
his office and returned with a small dust-covered
brown bottle, which he held to the light at the win-
dow.

“T haven’t bothered it since,” he said.

—From the Ring-tum Phi.

ie
°

ATHLETICS
COACH:

Oberst:

Football Coach “Pat” Herron resigned. The
Washington and Lee Athletic Association cast about
warily for a suitable successor, received and investi-
gated forty applications, consulted famed Notre Dame
Coach Knute K. Rockne, elected Eugene Oberst, line
and baseball coach at DePauw University as head

 

New Coacu OsBeErst
Six Feet Five—225 Ibs.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

coach of Washington and Lee under a two-year con-
tract.

Oberst played tackle at Notre Dame, threw the dis-
cus and javelin, graduated in 1924; went to Paris on
the American Olympic Team, placed third in the
javelin throw; returned, became head coach at St.
Johns College, Shreveport, La., for one year, coach at
Cahill High School, Philadelphia, in 1925, football
line coach and coach of baseball DePauw University,
Greencastle, Indiana, in 1928: was designated as
“one of the coming coaches” by Coach Rockne. He
is 6 ft. 5 in. tall, weighs 225 pounds, is married; will
arrive to take up his new duties on May 1 to round
out Spring football practice. He is a native of
Owensboro, Ky.

System:

The so-called ‘“Warner” system of football play
has long been in vogue at Washington and Lee. It
calls for a massing of attack, close formations, the
concentration of brain and brawn; depends primarily
upon line plunging and off-tackle plays for offensive
strength. The coming of new Coach Oberst will in-
augurate a form of the Notre Dame style of play
(The Rockne System) which allows more open for-
mations, utilizes fleet footwork and a complexity of
forward passes; is probably better suited to light
teams with limited reserves.

ATHLETIC ADMINISTRATION:

History:

Professional coaching was unknown at Washington
and Lee until 1901 when Dr. Wm. Wertenbacker was
employed as physical director. Periodically there-
after special coaches were temporarily employed at
the expense of student players on the teams to be
coached. During this period A. J. Byles, D. W. Bal-
liet, EH. W. Bitzer, C. P. Carter, R. Ri Brown, C. L.
Krebs, Charles Roller, F. J. Prott, T. N. Pfeiffer, and
F. M. Shaugnessey coached in varied capacities and
under various conditions of employment.

Pollard:

The Athletic Association was organized in 1912,
under faculty supervision with Dr. J. W. H. Pollard
as coach and director of athletics. W. B. Kennoy,
Derrill Pratt, Al Orth, Jas. Reilly, H. L. Dowd, Dan
Mahoney, Walter Elcock, Forest Fletcher and W. C.
Raftery, rendered seasonal assistance to Dr. Pollard
until 1916 and the war. ,

Fletcher:

Forest Fletcher succeeded Dr. Pol-
lard, became Director of Athletics.
Bill Raftery, °15, coached football,
basketball and baseball. Washington
and Lee became a charter member of
the Southern Conference in 1921.
The Director of Athletics was given a
place on the Faculty; taught hygiene
and physical education in addition to
coaching; was an employee of the
University. The coach was and is
an employee of the Athletic Associa-
tion, drawing his salary from the pro-
ceeds of athletic contest admissions.

Fletcher & Co.:

The business of the Athletic Asso-
ciation grew, demanded a full-time ad-
ministrator. R. A. Smith, °15, was coaching and
teaching at Fishburne Military Academy; had played
Semi-pro baseball. He became Graduate Manager of
Athletics in 1922, became a shrewdly efficient partner
in the growingly effective firm of Fletcher & Co., a
cooperative, non-competitive organization which has
made the W. and L,. department of athletics preemi- —
nent. |

 

FLETCHER

To-day:

Every student must study hygiene
for at least two years; must satisfac-
torily pass a swimming test before
eraduation. Other ramifications of the
athletic department include inter-fra- |
ternity and inter-class athletic activity ;
embraces swimming, boxing, track and
field, wrestling, football, baseball, bas
ketball, tennis and golf for Freshman
and Varsity aspirants; entail the man-
agement of a twenty-five to forty thou-
sand dollar annual business, the em-
ployment of coaches, assistants, etc
the direction of athletic publicity. |

Responsible to the University for 2
the administration of intricate athletic SMITH
affairs is the Athletic Council, composed of Coach

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  

Fletcher, five students elected by the student-body,

one other professor, two resident alumni and two non-
resident alumni, elected by the Alumni Association.
Efficient assistants to Director Fletcher and Manager
Smith are EK. P. Davis, Freshman Coach, A. FE. Ma-
this, wrestling, E. P. T'wombley, swimming and base-
ball, W. W. Palmer, assistant football, and P. R. Har-
rison, director of Athletic Publicity. Baseball and

 

 

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

basketball are coached by Manager Smith, track by
Director Fletcher. New full-time assistants will be
football Coach Oberst and assistant footbail coach
Hoffman, Pennsylvania, ’27.

BASKETBALL:

Varsity

The cage season ran victoriously to a deflating
close. The Generals quintet met sixteen opponents,
scored 755 points while their opponents scored 391,
averaged 47 points per game, lost only one engage-
ment—to the U. of Kentucky by a one point margin ;
won the State Championship, stood first in Southern
Conference rating.

But the Southern Conference Championship 1s set-
tled in the annual basketball tournament at Atlanta,
which the Generals were picked to win. ‘There the
blue and white team overcame Tulane in the prelimi-
nary, but lost to the University of Mississippi, last
year’s champion, by a humiliating Score of 50 to 28.
The tournament was finally won by North Carolina
State University. |

The 1929 Washington and Lee quint was a finely
adjusted machine. Play centered around three sensa-
tional but unseasoned sophomores, Williams, center,
Cox, forward and Hanna, guard. Assisted by Capt.
Lowry, forward, Wood, and Groop, guards, the team
achieved the most outstanding record in W. and L.
cage history. That their smoothly attuned mechanism
was thrown out of adjustment by the furor and con-
fusion of hectic tournament play and by the high ex-
pectations of the press and fans does not detract from
their impressive showing. Fans and, Press may look
forward to another season with even firmer confi-
dence. -

Exclusive of the Atlanta tournament. the season’s
record was as follows:

VARSITY BASKETBALL

SCHEDULE AND RESULTS.

January 9—W. & L,, 45; Hampden-Sidney (H), 26.
. li WW. & 77; Bridgewater (Hy 22.
. 14—W. & L., 44; Georgia (H), 25.
: 15—W. & L., 56; Randolph-Macon (H), 27.
: 19, WW. & L., 4/7; Virginia (HH), 19.
: 20—W. & L., 44; V. P. 1... (BH), 25.

February 1—W. & L,, 47; William & Mary (HH), 19.
x 22 Wes i 47: Maryland: (1), 22.
. 4 W. & L., 42; Maryland (H), 18.
8—W. & L., 30; Kentucky (T), 31.
- OW. & L., 42; West Virginia (T), 37.
* 14—W. & L., 55; Davidson (H), 26.
2 OW. & LL. 45; V. P.-E. (Roanoke), 17

February 20—W. & L., 48; Marshall College (FH), 30.
: Ow & L 36; Vo Po), fz,
Z Zo. & 1, 50; Virginia (7); 30

Totals—Washington and Lee, 755; Opponents, 391.
Average per game—W. & L., 47; Opponents, 24.

Freshmen:

—

Feeder for the Varsity quint and for the past few
seasons an outstanding aggregation on their own ac-
count, the freshman basketeers under the tutelage of
Coach Eddie Parks Davis, ’15, hung up a record for
1929 second only to the Varsity. The yearling Cava-
liers from the University of Virginia, outclassed the
young Generals in both scheduled engagements and
the frosh of North Carolina University got away with
a four-point margin—the only losses suffered by the
Davis-men out of twelve engagements. Their record
is:

FRESHMAN BASKETBALL

Freshman— VW. and L,., 46; A. M.A, 22.
. W. and L,, 44; S$. M. A. 33.
: Weoend bo 8) Vae. L. 2
. W. and L,., 38; F. M. S. 16 (Fishburne)
- W. and L,., 36; Virginia 40.
ye Wieland 2... 35¢°5.-M. Av Zz.
Wo amd i. 30, N. UU. 34
W. and L., 29; Virginia 47.
: W. and L,., 39; Davidson 38.
W. and L., 52; Fishburne 28.
W. and L,., 35; Princeton High 30.
Wand yo. EF. 27.

Prep Tournament:

Washington and Lee has become the center of
South Atlantic Prep and High School basketball’s
final aspirations. ‘Thirty schools were represented
at the annual tournament this year. The teams came
from Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina and West
Virginia.

After preliminary eliminations John Marshall High
School of Richmond, Newport News High School,
Augusta Military Academy of Fort Defiance, Va.,
and Emerson Institute of Washington, D. C., reached
the semi-finals. |

Augusta Military Academy rallied to defeat the
smooth Emerson aggregation; Newport News van-
quished their neighboring rivals from Richmond, met
and defeated A. M. A.:--won the tournament.
Awards of medals, trophies, etc., followed the Final
game. An informal dance followed the awards.

The tournament was most successful; evidenced
the leadership of Washington and Lee in fostering
Prep and High School athletic activity.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Athletic Publicity:

Alumni create the major consumer demand for
news of Washington and Lee activities. Athletic
news is sent out under the direction of the Wash-
ington and Lee Athletic Association. ‘This year ath-
letic publicity is done by P. R. Harrison, ’27.  II-
lustrative of the needed point of view in Washing-
ton and Lee Publicity were the news articles sent
out by the Athletic Association preliminary to the
Prep and High School basketball tournament.

Athletic news releases announced the tournament
to be under the auspices of the University; made
no vaunting references to the individual leaders in
charge, evidenced no competitive publicity-seeking
on the part of the athletic association or the able
men whose efforts had brought the tournament to
its present success, made publicity for Washington
and Lee University as a whole.

In the Stands:

Over the radio from “W. S. B., the Atlanta Jour-
nal, Atlanta, G-ee-o-r-g-y-a-a-”, the announcer gave
a play by play account of the Atlanta tournament
basketball games, turned his attention to the audi-
ence, said “In the stands I see C. W. ‘Bill’ Streit
(05), one of the outstanding football referees and
athletic authorities in the South. Bull Streit, as you
know, was one of the referees at the Ga. Tech.-
California game on New Year’s Day.”

Duke’s Cameron:

Surprising to many
was the showing
made in the Atlanta
tournament by the
basketball team
from Duke Univer-
sity, freshman mem-
ber of the Southern
Conference. Duke
dethroned many of
the picked leaders
on their march to
the Finals, where
they were met and
downed by North
Carolina State for
the championship.

Coached by “Ed-
die’ Cameron, 724,
famed W.&L. full-
back and_ basketball
guard, the Duke
showing was no surprise to those who knew Cameron.

 

“Eppige” CAMERON, 724
Upset the dope bucket

When Coach “Jimmy”
DeHart went to the gol-
den hued Duke, he em-
ployed Eddie Cameron,
24, and Tex Tilson, ’25,
as assistants. In addi-
tion to assisting on the
Duke gridiron Eddie
Cameron was mentor of
Freshman basketball.
Tex Tilson assisted with
boxing and _ wrestling. |
This year Cameron was |
made Varsity basketball ®
coach, entered his team
in the Atlanta tourna-

 

W. E. TILson
Does duty for Duke

ment for the first time, came near to upsetting the
well known ‘dope ‘bucket.’

SWIMMING:

Preeminent in the major sport of basketball for
the season Washington and Lee was also outstanding
in the minor sport of swimming. Johns Hopkins
Natators defeated the Generals’ mermen by a two
point margin for the only loss of the year. Fresh-
man swimmers emerged victorious in every meet.

Old records were topped and new records estab-
lished for the local pool by O. Norris Smith, varsity
speed and diving star, by one Stapleton, Freshman ace.
The showing of Ex-Captain and Manager Norris
Smith, son of President and Mrs. Henry Louis
Smith, was so outstanding that he was awarded a
Major Sport monogram, by the Athletic Association,
the first award of its kind ever made at Washington
and Lee. |

Swimming has been slowly but surely built into
an outstanding sport at Washington and Lee by
Coach FE. P. “Cy” ‘Twombly, one-time student at
the Springfield Y. M. C. A. College of Physical
Training, one-time big league baseball pitcher, W. &
L. coach of swimming, assistant physical director
and baseball pitching mentor. The 1929 Varsity and
Freshman records reflect his aquatic progress.

VARSITY SWIMMING

W. & 1. 45, Va. 15.

W.& L. 40, W. & M. 20.
W. & & 35, Catholic U. 25.
W. & L. 30, Johns Hop. 32.
W. & L. 43, Duke 17.

FRESHMAN SWIMMING

W. & L. 42, Fishburne 18.
Wo & 4.99 S BAL S.
W, & L. 41, A. M. A, 19.

 

 

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

We 4, 38. A> M.A. 24
Wo@ 243 RR. M.A 17
W. & L. 40, Va. Fresh. 19.

WRESTLING:

Varsity matmen failed to follow the victorious
march of other Winter Sports but acquitted well
on occasion. Outstanding for the season was the
victory over U. of Va. grapplers by a score of 16
to 14 and over N. C. State 16 to 12.

To stimulate interest in wrestling interested Coach
A. FE. Mathis, one-time big-ten wrestling champion
from the Univ. of IIl., has offered a handsome lov-
ing cup to the most outstanding Washington and
Lee grappler each year. The 1929 award went to
“Dick” Bolton, heavy-weight.

Freshmen matmen exceeded their Varsity peers,
had only one loss to mar a victorious season, Bod-
ing well for next year’s Varsity, Harris, Mattox,
Guyol and Tilson, made splendid showings for the
Frosh. Freshman Mattox is the brother of “Jimmy”
and “Monk” of W. & L. athletic fame, Tilson the
brother of “Tex”, of Generals’ football, wrestling
and boxing repute.

The Varsity and Freshman Mat records are:

VARSITY WRESTLING

W. & L. 8 Princeton 26.

W. & L. 6, Army 28.
Woe GFN, C2?

W.& L. 16, Va. 14.
1. 16, Ne Ge ge.
Wok LL. 11, Duke 21,

Woe 1, 1214, 8 PL be.

FRESHMAN WRESTLING

& L. 25,54. M.A. 10.
ow Loh Va. 3.

aw, I. 20, N.C. 20

& £18 Ao A 12:
Wi 2t. Vv Pod. 1s.
& 1, 35, B. M. AO.

aRZEES

BOXING:

Law student “Bill” Price, last year’s Boxing Cap-
tain, coached the 1929 mitmen; had a poor boxing
season with both Varsity and Frosh.

With more material and attention Washington and
Lee boxing may yet become an outstanding sport.
It will draw a larger crowd of fans than any other
midwinter sport.

One bout was outstanding during the 1929 home
exhibitions. In a match with Catholic University

 

“Johnny” Faulkner, stocky 165 pounder absented
himself from the basketball squad, donned trunks
and gloves, pounded a few resounding smacks and
sent his opponent to quick defeat by the knock-out
route.

Season records:

VARSITY BoxING

We. & 1 4 & M2
Moe. 1. 1, Ve BR 1.6
W. & L. 1, Duke 6.
Weed OD Uo or Noe 7
Woieg 4. 3, Cath, U3

@ 13. Ac MAL 4
too aM eG,
PO
5, Blackstone O.
Lo. ME AL SG.

S225
Ke Ko Ro ee

TRACK:

In a triangular meet at the U. of N. C. with their
hosts and Ga. Tech, W. & L. won the relay, the 70
yard dash, placed second in the pole vault and third
in the high jump. These were the only events en-
tered. |

at the U. of Va. mdoor games W. & 1. placed
third with 21% points, winning the 50 yard dash,

the 440 yard and second in the 880. W. & L.

Freshman placed second with 18 points, winning the
440, second in 880 and first and third in the shot
put.

The outstanding track showing of the year was made
at the Millrose games in Madison Square Garden,
New York, where the Generals’ Relay Team placed
second to Yale in that event. Relaymen Bacchus,
Sandifer, Shepheard, and Dickey ran in the order
named.

However, the loss to Yale was the first defeat
suffered by a Washington and Lee Relay Team in
14 years. During this period Washington and Lee
has been represented in some of the Nation’s largest
indoor track events, and have emerged with victories
in the relay on every occasion until the last.

It was estimated that over 100 candidates have
reported to Coach Fletcher for outdoor track.

1929 diamond prospects cannot be accurately meas-
ured. The usual battery strength is conspicuously
absent. Capt. Gene White will endeavor to fill the
breach on the mound, though his usual position is

Rear

SS,

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 3 17

  
  
 
 
  

at the keystone sack. He will be as-
sisted by Atwood, Ranier and Rad-
ford. The vacancy behind the home
plate created by the graduation of
Catchers Jones and Tips will be
hard to fill. With White in the
pitcher’s box the entire infield must
be built anew. ‘Two veterans, Slan-
ker and Lowden, are on hand for
the outfield.

Good material from last year’s me-
diocre Freshman aggregation may
fill out the infield satisfactorily. Ii
all-round athlete Leigh Williams can

Wuirr, Capt. be spared from track, “Babe” Spotts’
old position at the initial sack will be well taken care
of. Thiebedeau is in line for the third base posi-
tion, while Jacob will substitute for White at sec-
ond and Jenkins will be a first-string tryout at short.
Lawder, Richardson and Wright are competing for
the outfield vacancy.

The season opened March 21.

Following is the complete schedule, games marked
(x) being Tri-State League battles:

March 21—Lynchburg, pending.
March 25—Mt. St. Marys; here.
March 26—Catholic University; here.
March 29—Princeton; here.

March 30—Colgate; here.

April 2—N. C. State (x); there.
April 3—Duke; there.

April 4—N. C. University (x); there.
April 6—Delaware; here.

April 11—Virginia (x); there.

April 13—Davidson; here.

April 15—N. C. University (x); here.
April 20—William & Mary; here.
April 23—Virginia Tech (x); there.
April 26—Maryland (x); there.

April 27—Naval Academy ; there.
April 30—Guilford College; here.
May 2—N. C. State (x); here.
May /—Maryland (x); here.
May 10—Virginia Tech (x); here.
May 18—Virginia (x); here.

FOOTBALL:

Spring gridiron practice is not scheduled to start
until mid-April. New Coach Oberst will not be on
hand until the close of the spring practice season.
I. P. Davis and W. W. Palmer will direct the initial

limbering up.

New Rules :

Washington and Lee suffered seriously from an
epidemic of fumbling during the past Football sea-
son. Fumbles will cease to be a serious menace.
New rules adopted by the National Football rules
committee make two important changes in the regu-
lations on fumbles, one on the point-after-touchdown
play. The changes are:

1. A fumbled ball is dead at the point of recovery.
It becomes the possession of the recovering team as
heretofore—but is put in play at the point of re-
covery.

2. Also and in like manner, fumbled kicks are
dead at the point of recovery.

3. After touchdown the ball is to be put in play
two yards from the goal line instead of three. Thus
a line plunge may be more safely used to gain the
extra point instead of a kick or forward pass.

WILLIAMS:

An outstanding all-round athlete is an athletic
blessing. “Cy’ Young, “Al” Pierrotti and “Babe”

 

Out At THE PLATE

18 . THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Spotts have been outstanding during the past fifteen
years. |

Looming in the firmament of all-round stars is -

one Leigh Williams, Sophomore, erst-
while star of Maury High School,
of Norfolk, Va. Versatile Mr. Wil-
liams has the happy faculty of doing
many things well. He compares well
with the best in any given sport.
Withal he is a modest and genuine
young man, more apprehensive over
the perils of text books and class
rooms than competitive athletic ac-
tivity.

Williams. has hands like hams and
legs—well they have slight, if any,
air resistance. The hands are well
suited to gathering in forward passes

WiuaMs deftly, passing basketballs and throw-
Hands, legs, brains ing baseballs. The legs carry him in
a straight line between two given points for 100 yards
in just a fraction under 10 seconds. Most important
for direction of hands and feet is his accurate eye
and a brain which quickly penetrates and outwits
opposing strategy.

At Washington and Lee Williams has already dis-
tinguished himself at right end on the football team,
center in basketball. His brief showing in the At-
lanta tournament led Southern sports writers to in-
dulge in effusive praise. Baseball, track, this year,
and two full seasons in major sports lie ahead of him.

 

?

LEXINGTON
THE TOWN:

Students become bored with Lexington, cast super-
cilious slurs, seek relief from its reserved remoteness
in expensive week-end trips to more metropolitan cen-
ters. After graduating, they look fondly backward,
cherish memories of the town and its citizens, take a
possessive pride in its uniqueness; would deplore any
major change. :

Without materially changing its general aspect,
Lexington is quietly progressive. An efficient and
well manned police force has been employed, the fire
department reorganized; streets are being widened
when possible. Active Rotary, Kiwanis and Wom-
an’s Clubs and a Chamber of Commerce promote im-
provements and additions. Most recently proposed is
a municipal air-port. |

CHANGES:

I. Weinberg is a name long associated in Lexington
with Ladies’ Ready-to-Wear, musical instruments and
phonograph records. On the side Weinberg’s interest

in hotel and moving picture enterprises has expanded,
has made him a potent figure in state and national
cinema exhibition circles;—so much so that Wein-
berg’s Department Store, fountain-head of his pros-
perity, became a side line. It was sold last month;
becomes “Grossman’s.”

Overland artery from Washington, D. C., to EI
Paso, Texas, the Lee Highway pours throngs of tour-
ists through Lexington during spring, summer and
fall. Residences bordering the highway hung out
signs, became Tourist Inns; have done a profitable
business. The old “Heck” residence, designed on the
order of a military block house, has long stood just
off the sidewalks of Jordan and Main Streets, a relic
of early Lexington. It is being replaced by a modern
30 room Tourist Inn by W. W. Coffey, proprietor of
the “Valley Inn” a half mile to the South. Excava-
tions under the old house disclosed a hidden chamber,
an old horse-pistol, some bones and bottles.

BEAUTY us. UTILITY: | |

Matthew Fontaine Maury, Confederate Naval
Chief, World geographer, “Path-Finder of the Sea,”
V. M. I. mathematician, loved the wild gorge cut by
the North River through the Alleghanies—Goshen
Pass. Legend says that Commodore Maury’s body
was withheld from burial, by his dying request, until
the laurel and rhododendron of Goshen Pass were in
full bloom; that it was drawn in a hearse through
the pass by a corps of V. M. I. Cadets.

Today a huge ship anchor and a limestone slab —
stand in the pass in commemoration of Commodore
Maury’s love and the rites preceding his burial; the
road through the pass is known as the Maury High-
way; a movement is on foot to officially designate the
gorge-cutting torrent as the Maury River.

The Virginia Public Service Corporation, power
magnates, propose to utilize the wasted power of the
mountain torrent; to erect a huge dam above the pass,
to create a lake above and a barren rock bed below, to
rebuild the Maury Highway, to generate electric
power.

Friends of beauty and foes of change are vigorously
protesting what they term a desecration of irreplace-
able natural beauty. The Blue Ridge Garden Club,
the committee on Conservation of Natural Areas of
the Virginia Academy of Science, Dr. W. D. Hoyt,
W. and L. Biology Professor, Chairman, Virginius
Dabney, Richmond Time Dispatch editorial writer,
and many a Lexingtonian oppose the move.

Friends of utility and advocates of industrial prog-
ress applauded the prospect, looked upon artificial re-
construction as an adequate substitute for destroyed
natural beauty. D. S$. McCorkle, B.S., ’26, and E.
W. McCorkle, B.A., ’26, wrote to the Rockbridge

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

County News in defense of Industrial Progress. Dr.
FE. P. Tompkins, ’88, scholarly native of Rockbridge
wrote in broad and comprehensive review of both
contentions, pointed the way to a possibly acceptable
solution.

Sitting in judgment is Lewis S. Eppes, ’08, Chair-
man of the Virginia Corporation Commission, which
will reject or approve the Power request.

eS ee
¢

MEMORABALIA
BUFFALO CALF:

Politic, Benjamin Borden presented Virginia Co-
lonial Governor Gooch with a buffalo calf, requested
and secured the grant of 90,000 acres in what is now

Rockbridge County, Va., from the British Crown,

through the pleased Colonial Governor.

- The grant was finely written and royally executed
on heavy parchment November 6, 1739. It remained
in the Borden family for awhile, passed to the Bow-
yer family by marriage, was recently contributed by
Mr. John Bowyer, ’69, of Abilene, Texas, to the
museum of Washington and Lee, whose present site
and property goes back to Borden’s grant for original
title.

LIGHTING EFFECTS:

Effective electric lighting is a mixture of art and
science.

The Natural Bridge and the numerous caverns
throughout the Shenandoah Valley have been en-
hanced by artistic lighting effects. Lighting scientists
from the General Electric Company have become in-
terested in effectively lighting Valentine’s recumbent
statue of Lee in the Chapel, have made sketches and
designs, will submit plans.

CHAPEL VISITORS:

Winter does not encourage touring. Registrations
at the Lee Chapel for December were 1200, for Janu-
ary 1100, for February 939. |

LEE BIRTHPLACE:

Stratford Hill in Westmoreland County, Virginia,
originally given in 1729 by Queen Caroline, consort
of George II to members of the Lee family, the home
of Richard Henry Lee, Francis Lightfoot Lee,
“Lighthorse” Harry Lee, the birthplace and boyhood
home of General Robert E. Lee, has been acquired by
a Connecticut chapter of the U. D. C., will be pre-
served as a National Shrine.

AGAIN BOOZE:

John Robinson was an early and liberal donor to
the endowment of embryo Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. A marble shaft rises in front of Tucker Hall
in his memory. Liberal and convivial, donor Robin-
son once donated a barrel of rye whiskey for the ap-
propriate celebration of a University occasion in 1824,
dispensed it in gourds and tin cups from the rear of
a farm wagon, created much “whoopee” on the cam-
pus, as was recently reported in the Rimg-tum Phi;
as 1S more accurately recorded among the Washing-
ton and Lee Historical Papers.

DEBATES FIFTY VEARS AGO:

Anmversary Celebration of the Graham-Lee So-
ciety—On the 20th inst., the Graham Lee Literary
Society of W. & L. University celebrated its 70th an-
niversary in the University Chapel.

The speakers of the evening were, Mr. W. C.
Wells, of Suffolk, Va., orator, and Messrs. Moore of
Texas, Tailbird of S. C., McDonal of Kentucky, and
Campbell of Richmond, Va., as debaters.

The question, “Should there be a Tariff for the
Protection of Home Industry?” is one of general in-
terest and was well discussed by the young gentlemen.

Mr. Wells had chosen as his oration “Mary and
Elizabeth,” which he treated in a manner highly in-
teresting to the audience, as was manifested by their
close attention.

We regret that the number present was not as large
as it might have been. The number of young ladies
was noticeably small for a Lexington audience.

The Washington Literary Society will celebrate its
anniversary on the 22nd of February.

—Lexington Gazette, January 24, 1879.

FANCY DRESS FIFTY YEARS AGO:

The managers of the Fancy Dress Party at W. &
L. University on Friday night last ought to be well
satisfied with the results of their laudable endeavors.
We have heard but one opinion expressed, and it is
that the party was one of the most perfect things of
its kind ever had in Lexington—not only was the
crowd a large one and consequently the financial re-
sults satisfactory, but the costumes were varied and
elegant, the characters personated were well sus-
tained, and every one seemed to be at the tip-top of
enjoyment. All had a good time. The supper was
bountiful and elegant, and served with rare grace and
sweetness. We congratulate the Boat and Baseball
Clubs upon having so many and such generous friends.
May their members reflect credit upon themselves and
their fairy friends when they enter the lists for the
prize. |
—Lexington Gazette, February 28, 1879,

 

 

 

 

20 ; THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE |

ALUMNI
QUAIL:

At Washington
and Lee Charles O.
Handley studied
Biology. In the af-
ternoons he ex-
plored neighboring
fields and _ caves;
called birds to him,
talked to them in
their native  lan-
guage,photo-
graphed them. At
a summer camp he
taught Nature
Study, captured
and tamed a young
_ Jaybird, named him
Jiggs and brought him to Lexington.

Jiggs paid friendly visits to neighboring dormitory
rooms, the Library and Biology Class rooms, strayed
fearlessly over the campus, became the target of a
misunderstanding colored boy, died from his mis-
placed trust. Charley Handley graduated in 1923,
became Assistant Professor of Biology, served for
three years, was married.

Betimes he made reports on bird migrations to the
U. S. government. The U. S. Bureau of Biological
Survey needed a man to study the food habits of
quail, employed Prof. Handley, sent him to the gov-
ernment experimental farm at ‘Thomasville, Ga.,
where he compiled and reported much valuable data
upon the elusive and wild southern game-bird.

The State of Virginia maintains a commission of
Game and Inland Fisheries, now under the direction
of A. Willis Robertson, Lexingtonian. The Virginia
commission imports game birds for stocking old
dominion stubble fields; found that they needed the
services of an expert on game birds, created the posi-
tion of Superintendent of Game Propagation, called
expert quailman, Charles O. Handley, ’23, to fill the
post.

Back in Virginia Mr. Handley will have supervi-
sion of the state game farm, the Camp Lee refuge and
such other refuges as may be established, will carry
on his studies of the food habits and food supplies of
Virginia quail, will cause the gamebags of Virginia
huntsmen to be fuller in later years.

 

CuAs. HANDERY, “22
Captured Jiggs

VIRGINIA GOVERNOR:

Governor Harry Flood Byrd (LL. D. W. & L.
1928), progressive Virginia executive, cannot succeed
himself. State politicoes are casting about warily
for a suitable successor to carry on his epoch-making

administration. Five out of the six possible candi-
dates for the Democratic choice are Washington and
Lee alumni. )

Lieut. Governor Junius F. West, ’97, of Suffolk
has formally announced his candidacy and is present-
ing his platform to the State Democratic electorate.

From Norfolk the name of Stockton Heth Tyler,
’°94—lawyer and mayor, father of James H. Tyler,
W. & L. Sophomore student, has been brought for-
ward.

Other parties in the Eastern section are advocating

- James H. Price, 09—lawyer and state legislator of

Richmond.

Newspapers have suggested that Harry St. G.
Tucker, "77, Representative of Lexington and the 7th
Va. district in the U. S$. Congress, famed constitu-
tional lawyer, again enter the gubernatorial race.

Potently looming from Republican-hued South-
west Virginia, is George C. Peery, ’9/—lawyer of
Tazewell, two-times Democratic congressman from

the embattled ninth district, father of Albert G. Peery,

W. & L. junior student and varsity boxer.

Other eyes turn to the gubernatorial activity of
recently stimulated Republican leaders of which group
Henry W. Anderson, ’97, of Richmond, is unofficial
but potent chief and of which T. X. Parsons, B. L.
‘21, of Roanoke and John G. Anderson, B. L. ’23, of
Bristol are effective members.

EXECUTIVE EDITOR:

isase Shuman, 17, and F.H. “Stretch, Prat <1/,
gathered some newspaper experience, met at Kings-
port, Tenn., with the Weekly Times as their joint
property. “Stretch” Pratt married, settled down, as-
sumed the direction of the paper when Ike Shuman
went a’conquering of bigger fields. The Weekly grew
into a daily and an important East ‘Tennessee news
organ.

Ike Shuman went to the New York World, wrote
arresting articles on New York housing conditions,
suggested means for the relief of congestion and the
elimination of slums, saw many of his suggestions be-
come the basis for legal regulation; established a rep-
utation which took him to the potent New York
Times. |

For the Times Mr. Shuman covered Ljindbergh’s
good will stops in Honduras and Santo Domingo,
Mayor James J. Walker’s Mardi Gras trip tc New
Orleans, and many other important assignments.

Paul Block, growing chain newspaper owner, pur-
chased the Brooklyn, N. Y., Standard Union, reached
across the river to the famed Times Building, brought
Tke Shuman, *17, to the post of Executive Editor in
charge of his new purchase, enlarged another name
on Washington and Lee’s growing alumni list of
“born” News-men.

i

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

ARTHUR TABB, 04:

Arthur Tabb, manager of Tabb Storage Warehouse
and Freight Transfer Line, was born in Louisville,
Kentucky, on October 20, 1881. Receiving his pre-
liminary education in the graded schools of the city
and at the Louisville Male High Schoo!, he later at-
tended Washington and Lee University.

Returning to Louisville on completing his college
course, he entered the transfer business established by
his father, Charles $. Tabb, in 1875, and on his
father’s death in 1920 succeeded as the active head of
the organization.

Located at 201 North Fifteenth Street, Tabb Stor-
age Warehouse and Transfer Line is perhaps one of
the oldest and best kncwn companies of its kind not
only in Louisville but in the entire South. For the
last fifty years it has stored and handled the vast
quantities of paper sent through the presses of the
Courier-Journal and the Louisville Times durirg that
time.

Mr. Tabb is a member of the Falls City Lodge of
Masons No. 376 and is a Scottish Rite. He is a mem-
ber of the Transportation Club and of the Second Pres-
byterian Church.

Married in 1913 to Miss Annie Fitch of Flemings-
burg, Ky., Mr. Tabb’s home is at 2411 Ransdell
Avenue.

—From the Sunday Courier Journal, March 3rd.

HUNTER S RAID:

The details of Hunter’s raid are of particular in-
terest to natives of Rockbridge County, Virginia.

_ Eyewitnesses are passing on. Details become more

obscure. Mr. Hunter McDonald, ’77, of Nashville,
Tenn., has made these details the subject of much in-
vestigation. President George West Diehl, °12, of
Concord State College, Athens, W. Va., is making a
study of Hunter’s Military Operations. Authentic in-
formation on the subject will be appreciated by Mr.
McDonald or Dr. Diehl.

RICHMOND ALUMNI CLUB:

Richmond, Va., Alumni met in annual business ses-
sion, Monday, Feb. 18, re-elected C. H. Morrissette,
14, President, C. H. Moss, 718, Vice President, O. M.
Stumpf, 7°18, Secretary-Treasurer; heard Governor
Byrd, LL.D., ’28, discuss the proposed monument of
General Lee to be placed in the old Hall of Delegates ;

pledged $50 toward the monuments erection; dis-

cussed the future presidency of W. & L.

Alumni attending were: Governor Byrd, LL. D.
28, Dr. Sam’l A. Anderson, 719, S. T. Beveridge, ’76,
W. W. Beverly, 10, Dr. John Robin Blair, ’03, L. C.
Caldwell, 09, Robert W. Cole, ’20, James ‘I’. Davis,
°24, John J. Forrer, 09, Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes, ’15,

M. J. Fulton, 91, Kenneth A. Goode, ’25, A. M.
Harris, ‘12, Frank W. Harrelson, ’22, George E.
Haw, °04, Col. LeRoy Hodges, 710, Dr. A. A.
Houser, 07, Dr. James M. Hutcheson, ’02, Charleton
E. Jewett, ’21, Willard C. Kidd, ’21, Dr. H. S Leib-

_ert, "21, Maurice Miller, ’17, Willis D. Miller, 11, C.

H. Morrissette, *14, Charles W. Moss, ’18, Charles
H. Phillips, ’22, James H. Price, ’11, George S.
Riggs, “23, Dr. Bi M. Rosebro, “97, Dr. R. 1. Sanp-
son, “92, General. Jo. Lane Stern, “70, Dr 1. F-
Stoneburner, 07, W. K. Timberlake, ’26, John Ran-
dolph Tucker, 00, B. H. Thornhill, ’28, Dr. Atwood
M. Wash, 712, William Albert Wiiliams, ’22, W. O.
Wilson, ’04, Clyde N. Allen, ’25, Rev. W. L. Carson,
15, FE. L. McFarlane, ’12, Charles H. Hamilton, ’26,
D, C. O'Flaherty, (27, W. J. Patton; °22, Canes 1.
Todd, ’24, O. B. Watson, 712. Garland H. Hayes, ’28.
R. W. Jordan, Jr.,.’26, H. -V. Bell, 717, and 9, M.
Stumpf, ’18.

The Richmond Club has long been an active one,
has been favored with such leaders as Dr. J. M. Hut-
cheson, 02, George FE. Haw, ’04, and Mr. Morrissette,
is balanced by the active membership of such veterans
of alumni activity as Col. Jo. Lane Stern, ’70, James
P. Nelson, 69, H. T. Wickham, ’69, and Samuel L.
Yonge, ’68. The Club holds three informal quarterly
meetings and one formal business meeting each year.

VISITORS:

Calling at the Alumni Headquarters during the past
month were Hon. Ed. Wohlwender, ’97, of Columbus,
Ga., James C. Ambler, 718, of Warrenton, Va., W. T..
Smith, Jr., 22, and F. R. Loth, ’26, of Waynesboro,
Va., Rev. J. McC. Sieg, ’01, of Morristown, Tenn.,
and Hon. S. Heth Tyler, 94, of Norfolk, Va.

THE GREATEST SOLDIER:

The New Orleans Alumni Association of Wash-
ington and Lee University is to be commended for its
faithful commemoration of the birth of the greatest
American soldier, Robert FE. Lee, which occurred a
hundred and twenty-two years ago on January 19. At
its dinner-meeting for Saturday night, the association
selected for its principal speaker, Dr. Carter Helm
Jones, of the St. Charles Avenue Baptist Church.
His father, J. William Jones of Virginia, was the
lifelong friend of Lee, and his first biographer.

Since 1883, Robert E. Lee has stood in heroic
bronze on the hundred-foot pillar at Lee Circle. But
it is of more significance that he still stands in the
hearts of a whole nation as the type of a great sol-
dier and a great man. ‘Time has confirmed the lum-
inous epic of his character, which breathed into our
civil, political, and even our wartime relations the
breath of a higher life.

 

 

Ze THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Carlyle calls heroism “the divine relation which in
all times unites a great man to other men.” By that
test, the heroism of Lee is confirmed. At the close of
the Mexican war, General Scott called him “the great-
est living American soldier.’ But his greatness was,
strangely enough, more fully proven by his defeat—
in a cause to which he had sacrificed his convictions
out of fidelity to the South. For he opposed disunion ;
gave his own slaves their freedom; but refused the

command of the United States Army to draw a re-_

luctant sword in defense of his own people. And he
failed only because the “stars in their courses fought
against him,” as they had fought against Sisera—be-
cause provisions for his forlorn hope were sent by
mistake to Richmond, instead of to the rendezvous at
Amelia Courthouse. No incident is too small to be
used by the will of the gods to further a just cause.

Hero worship is wholesome, especially in an age of
irreverance; and especially if the hero has the quali-
ties of greatness expressed by America’s greatest sol-

- dier.

—Editorial from New Orleans, La., “States”, Jan-
mary 19;°1929.

THE WILL OF PAUL DERRICKSON, ’12:

The will of the first Norfolk boy killed in the
World War in France was filed for probate in the
City Circuit Court there on February 13th—a brief
little dedication of all he had in the world to his
“darling mother,” written as he went into his first and
last battle, which resulted in his death and a posthu-
mous award from the Congress of the United States
of a Distinguished Service Cross for his bravery in
the drive against the German lines.

It was the will of Second-Lieut. Paul W. Derrick-
son, 712, graduate of the Washington and Lee Law
School, member of the Virginia and Illinois bar, and
son of Mrs. Mary G. Derrickson of Norfolk, Vir-
ginia.

Lieutenant Derrickson wrote the will with a pencil
on May 15, 1918, on a little piece of Y. M. C. A.
stationery and it was placed in an envelope with the
“VY” triangle on the upper left corner. Scribbled on
the envelope were these words: |

“MY WILL
“My will, in case the enemy puts me out of com-
mission for good. :
Paul W. Derrickson.”
Inside the envelope, on a carefully folded sheet of
the stationery was the will itself. It reads as follows:

“MY WILL—MAY 15, ’18.
“Everything both real and personal that I have in
the world goes to my darling mother. I must ask
your pardon for not writing better, but we are leav-
ing for the show right away. |
Paul W. Derrickson.”

This was just before the First Division, to which
Lieutenant Derrickson was attached as a supply off-
cer in an infantry company, went into the great battle
of Cantigny.

The young officer did leave for the front lines im-
mediately and was killed on May 28. But he died
after all the other officers in his company had been
killed and he had taken command and led the rem-
nants of the company in a final drive against the Ger-
man lines.

A certain objective was set for the company and
Lieutenant Derrickson, with the other officers shot
down around him, led the infantrymen to that objec-
tive. And as they arrived, successful under his lead-
ership, a German machine gun bullet struck him above
the eye and he fell mortally wounded just thirteen
days after he had scribbled his last will and testament
in which he took more space to ask his mother’s par-
don for his writing than he did to actually say that

she was to have all his worldly goods.

Across the Atlantic in an American cemetery at
Aisne, the body of Lieutenant Derrickson rests be-
side thousands of comrades who fell in those last final
drives against German supremacy.

There in Norfolk his mother keeps the Distin-
guished Service Cross as one of her most sacred
treasures. She had held the faded and tattered last
writing of her son more dear and did not want to
give it up, but a clear title to certain real estate could
not be given her until it was filed for probate. She
reasoned, too, that in the clerk’s office of the Circuit
Court the will would go to the permanent files of its
records and might better be preserved than in her
Own possession.

The will was filed by Ivor A. Page, Jr., 10, Nor-
folk attorney, who married Mrs. Derrickson’s daugh-
ter. ‘The officer’s heirs include Mrs. Derrickson, Mrs.
Page, Lieut. Ralph N. Derrickson, a brother, and Mrs.
Helen D. Stoneham, a sister of Waverly, Va.

Young Derrickson was graduated from Washington
and Lee in 1912. He passed the State bar examination
and was admitted to the practice of law in Virginia,
but went from here to Chicago where he became as-
sociated with the legal department of Sears, Roebuck
and Company. He passed the Illinois bar and later
became manager of one of the famous mail order house
departments. He was holding this position when the
United States entered the World War. :

Derrickson immediately volunteered and was sent
to Fort Sheridan, Ill. He came out of the training
camp as a second lieutenant and sailed for France in
January, 1918. ,

At Washington and Lee Mr. Derrickson was a
member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity. He was
vice-president of the Junior Law class, historian of
the Tidewater Club and business manager of the
Southern Collegian. :

eS en tA ea 5 i i cnn nA cos ERNE TNS ere Fo PSST

iit nam gE GREE IOR NT ph bii iS nete od

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

RICHMOND JUSTICE:

T. Gray Haddon, *11, served long and well on the

_ Richmond, Va., Board of Aldermen. On Feb. 1, he

became police justice for his native city.

LATE TENNESSEE GOVERNOR:

The State of ‘Tennessee has had many distinguished
governors. Not least among them have been Governor
Malcolm R. Patterson of Memphis and the late Gov-
ernor Austin Peay, 91, of Clarksville. In an ad-
dress at Nashville on January 29, famed Governor
Patterson lauded the accomplishments of three-term
Governor Peay upon the unveiling of Governor Peay’s
portrait in the Tennessee War Memorial Building.

GEOLOGICAL LIBRARY:

After leaving Washington and Lee in 18/77 KE.
T. Dumble became State Geologist of Texas, was
recognized as the leading authority on the Geology of
the Southwest. He was organizer and manager of
all Southern Pacific Oil Companies. His activities
aS an economic geologist extended from South Amer-
ica to China by way of Alaska. :

During his thirty-seven years of distinguished serv-
ice Dr. Dumble published over seventy scientific
papers, accumulated a Geological library of 660 bound
volumes and 1200 unbound volumes. He died Jan-
uary 26, 1927, at Nice, France. His valuable papers
and ltbrary were recently given in his name by his
widow to the Houston, Texas, Public Library.

RADIO BIBLE LESSONS:

Alumni teachers or students of the Uniform Sun-
day School lessons may turn their radio dials to 88,
Station N O X, 560 kilocycles at 7:30 P. M. cen-
tral time on Monday evenings and hear Dr. Samuel
M. Glasgow, ’04, outline and expound the lesson for
the following Sunday.

A writer on the weekly Sunday School lesson in
the Christian Observer, Southern Prestyterian weekly,
author of numerous and valued Bible Studies, author
of many religious hymns, pastor and teacher, Dr.
Glasgow finds an enlarged and eager Sunday School
going radio audience.

MISSIONARY SALESMAN:

When manufacturers or distributors wish to open
up new sales territories they send out missionary
salesmen. Such salesmen carry no samples, take no
orders. Instead they create good will, lay founda-
tions for future orders, for the work of lesser sales-
men.

For the past six years Virginia has had a_ super
Commercial Missionary in Col. LeRoy Hodges, 710.

His activities have carried him to England and the
continent, have brought him royal decorations of
merit from Italy, England, and Czecho-Slovakia;
have brought to successful conclusion the famed five-
five program of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce
of which he is Managing Director.

Missionary work reduced to routine for the atten-
tion of order takers Col. Hodges —paused to more
closely examine his products, found room for inter-
nal improvement, for upbuilding from the bottom;
fearlessly called attention to the need for better rural
education, for the reduction of illiteracy; to weakness

in state enforcement of motor vehicle and_ prohibi-

tion laws; drew the fire of the Virginia Anti-Saloon
League. :

BIDS TO PARNASSUS:

Most frequently mentioned for the presidency of
Washington and Lee is the name of Newton D. Baker,
04. According to newspaper reports during recent
years Mr. Baker has been frequently offered a cup
from the Castilian Spring. Most recent has been the
tender of the presidency of Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity, Delphi of modern post graduate education, ac-
cording to the Baltimore Sun. , :

It appears that Mr. Baker does not aspire to the
oracle, that his great public service will continue
along the lines of his established interests in Interna-
tional arbitration, Sociological legislation, advanced
theories of jurisprudence, civic betterment.

°

LETTERS

FROM SOUTH CAROLINA:
February 26, 1929.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I enclose my subscription with check to help keep
the pot boiling under THe AnUMNr MacGazINeE an-
other year. I enjoyed the February issue, finding here
and there the names of old friends. Charlie Graves,
Harry Campbell, Rowan Barclay, Dr. Denny, Pro-
fessor James White, General Pendleton, F. A. Quarles,
Douglas Anderson, W. McF. Alexander, Harry
Tucker, who were on the campus during the ’80’s as
instructors or students. The airplane view on the
cover gave me a thrill.

I heartily subscribe to the recommendations con-
cerning the presidency and the genera! policy of ex-
pansion made by the Committee of Alumni. Mr.
Newton D. Baker or John W. Davis would either
one make a great progressive president without break-
ing with traditions. If the board goes farther afield
I would suggest that they look into the qualifications
of Dr. Reed Smith one of my colleagues who in the
last few years has won national attention by his
books, and lectures. He is a nephew of Dr. Henry

 

 

 

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Louis Smith, and would make wonderful executive
of the type mentioned by the committee.
I see Byrd has named a bay in antarctica after my
roommate Hal Flood.
| Cordially yours,
-Grorcr A. WAucHoPE, ’89.

A ROSE FROM MONTANA:
My dear Mr. Caffrey:

] am just in re-
geipt of. the
ALUMNI MAGA-
ZINE for February,
and after reading
it, I felt for the
first time, that the
Alumni Association
of Washington and
Lee was a living in-
stitution to which it
was both honorable
and pleasant to be-
long. Its contents
and makeup are
worthy of the high

j stitution it repre-
| sents, and I am im-
pelled by a feeling
of pride to con-
eratulate you and
your associates for
the splendid results of your years of labor.

E. C. Day, ’80
Not impertiment

Perhaps you may deem it impertinent in me to thus
write, in view of the very small contribution I have
made towards this result. But I have been so far
away and have had such a fragile contact with the
University, that I have not felt that all of the blame
was on my side. Fifty years ago last September I
entered Washington and Lee as a student from Har-
rison County, Ky., under an honorary scholarship
from the Cynthiana (Ky.) High School. I received

my B.A. in 1880 and after two years out of college ©

I returned and received my diploma from the Law
School, after one year under the influence and teach-
ing of Prof. Graves. From 1883 to 1887, I trans-
ferred to St. Paul, Minn., and joined the Editorial
staff of the West Publishing Co., then just inaugurat-
ing its series of Digest. I remained there until the
spring of 1890, when I came to Montana, where |
have been ever since, engaged in the practice of law,
with some degree of success as well as profit. For
many years I wanted to return to Lexington at Com-
mencement time, but June has always been one of
my busiest months. Though I have. made annual

character of the In-

trips to Kentucky and Washington City in October
I have never been able to find the chance I was
looking for to come to Lexington. Now, with the
passing of the years have passed most of those I used
to know, until the desire to return has almost gone
out. Your February number has revived many pleas-
ant memories and recalled many thoughts which |
have had about the splendid old institution. Well do
I now recall the laying of the corner stone of the Lee
Mausoleum, and the magnificent figure of that grand
old Greek sage, Prof. White, my first and probably
best known member of the faculty. Later comes the
scene when “the recumbent figure’ was unveiled, and
I can now hear the splendid voice and the eloquent
phrases of the classical orator Daniel and the sweet
voice of the aged Father Ryan.

Time does not suffice for me to say more, except
to express my great sorrow at the passing of Dr.
Humphreys and Prof. Graves—the former I only
knew by reputation, but to the latter I owe a greater
debt of gratitude than a short life of service, guided
by his precepts, will enable me to pay, except by verbal
enconiums—It was men like these, of whom I might
mention a score or more, that have made Washington
and Lee a great institution and worthy of a great ef-
fort to perpetuate. :

And this brings me to the prime subject of this let-
ter, namely to express to your Advisory Committee my
complete approval of your well phrased and restrained
report to the Trustees in the matter cf the election
of a new President.

It may be difficult to find the man to fit the place.
But the effort is worth while—Washington and Lee
should not attempt to compete with the great State
Universities, in their attempts to furnish everybody
with the particular brand of education desired, wrap-
ped up in an attractive package ready for consump-
tion, after the fashion of cooked breakfast food—lIt
should be its pride to offer a quiet and peaceful abode
for those who are to be the apostles of learning in its
truest sense. Its Trustees should seek for its chici
officer, as your Committee well express it, “a man
preferably of proven ability and talent for organiza-
tion.” I regret the expression “with sufficiently broad
contacts to secure endowment.” I would substitute
for the last two words “find and attract those who
hunger for learning.” ‘The endowments will come
fast enough without the Ballyhoo. :

May I also protest against the selection of one dis-
tinguished only for service in high political position,
however popular such a selection might be for the pres-
ent. ‘There does not now appear upon the horizon a
figure of such commanding qualities of mind or char-
acter as would acclaim him worthy to fill the shoes
worn by General Lee. The man to be chosen should
be youthful enough to have before him twenty-five
years of usefulness, because he is to be the leader of

 

 

 

 

Clho Kiowa Raid

 

Lj
ee
aT

 

| In June 1900, the nation’s press rang with the
account of how one Mrs. Carrie A. Nation, em-
battled W. C. T. U. jail evangelist of Medicine
Lodge, Kansas, had single-handed wrecked a
saloon in the neighboring town of Kiowa, oper-
ated in disregard of state laws, unenforced be-
cause of public officials’ venality. As TIME
would have told the story, had TIME been
issued June 18, 1900:

... Her arms stacked high with bricks and stones,
a sharp hatchet beneath her arm, Mrs. Nation then
walked boldly into Dobson’s back-room saloon. Bar-
flies and roustabouts stared, open-mouthed. Eyeing
Owner Dobson who stood serene among his cronies,
she bawled in a loud voice: “I told you last spring to
close this place and you didn’t do it. Now I have
come down with another remonstrance. Get out of
the way. I don’t want to strike you, but I am going
to break this place up!” Then, striding to the bar,
behind which stared one Hank O’Brien, she cried:
“Young man, come from behind-that bar. Your mother
did not raise you for such a place.” As Hank O’Brien
stupidly gazed, she threw a brick against the heavy

- ghattered the mirror.

 

 

wine

mirror—which did not break. Then, warming to her
task, she hurled bricks and stones right & left. Bottles,
decanters, glasses, lewd pictures crashed to the floor.
The bar-flies scattered, blaspheming loudly. The mir-
ror remained intact. Seeing a lone billiard ball on the
table, she seized it with a fervent “Thank God!” and
Owner Dobson cursed; Bar-
tender O’Brien crouched monkey-like behind his bar.
A crowd was gathering before the door. Finally, am-
munition exhausted, Carrie A. Nation bounded for the
bar, hatchet upraised. Again and again she hacked the
mahogany as whiskey and rum coursed to the sawdust.

At last, invincible, with the strength of ten, she
pushed away the irate Dobson and strode to the street,
announcing in firm tones: “I have destroyed your place
of business and if I have broken a statute of Kansas,
put me in jail. If I am not a law-breaker your mayor
and councilmen all are. You must arrest one of us,
for if I am not a criminal, you are.” .

So too would TIME have noted Carrie A.
Nation’s claim to divine guidance. Nor would
TIME have neglected to report her sensational
raids in many another city, her numerous in-
carcerations in local bastilles, her way of ad-
dressing judges as “Your Dishonor.”

Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias,
turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publica-
tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal
in the sense that they report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups.

TIME

The Weekly Newsmagazine

NEW YORK

CHICAGO

205 East 42nd Street, New York City

 

 

 

 

26 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

future generations. What the needs of those genera-
tions are to be cannot be seen by those of us, who were
the students of the ’80’s. We can only utter words
of warning, which spring from our own knowledge
of the past.

If the Trustees feel differently upon this subject
and are controlled by the idea that an Alumnus should
be chosen, permit me to suggest through you the name
of John M. Glenn, who, if the years have not placed
too heavy a burden upon him, has had the experience
that would entitle him to recognition.

Pardon the length of this epistle. But I felt full
of the subject and thought that a little outpouring,
while it would relieve me, might be of some help to
you.

With greetings and good wishes to all, I remain,

Yours very truly,

FB. C. Day.

(Tice may bea thora for eve 10S. but Mr.
Day’s letter is worth many a prick. Roses or thorns
are welcomed by THe ALumMNI MAGAZINE. ie
through such voluntary expressions that we are enabled
to discern the demands of our readers and to gauge
our success or failure—Editor. )

FROM NEW ORLEANS:

Dear Mr. Kemp:

Your card on my 82nd birthday was received with
a great deal of pleasure, and was highly appreciated.

It’s a new departure in University proceedings to
send out such cards, and |] am sure that every man
who receives one is delighted to think that his mem-
ory is still kept green on his old stamping ground.

Of course, I shouldn’t recognize the old University,
as I have not been in Lexington since 1871, but 1 can
still recall the old places from the photographs of the
new. The men who have built up the new have
added all modern touches, and at the same time re-
tained the old landmarks as far as possible.

I do not know whether I subscribed thru the local
branch, or thru the Lexington Office. At any rate,
am sending my check for two years’ sttbscription.
If there should happen to be a duplication, it can go
to the general good.

YT. J. BARTuB se, 69.

FROM A RECENT “GRAD”:

Gentlemen :

I hope you will pardon my unfaithfulness in sub-
scribing to the ALUMNI MaGazINE but my case was,
well, probably that of the “ministerial weakness” 9f
being broke. However, I shall do my best to keep
it from happening again. I am very much interested
in your magazine and | want to continue keeping in
touch with all the news from W. & L., so please find

my check here for one year’s subscription to the
AtumNi Macazint. Send same address given below.
I am now a student at the Southern Baptist Theo-
logical Seminary which you know is rated as the largest
pure theological body in the world. We have over
400 ordained ministers here from practically all sec-
tions of the U. S. and many foreign countries. The
work here is very interesting and we run across some
very quaint as well as interesting ideas here regarding
the philosophy of life, as we come inte conversation
with these ordained men from all parts of the world.
With werm regards, I am
Sincerely yours,
S. Tanmact MAGANN,
Mullins Hall, Box 266,
Baptist Seminary,
Louisville, Kentucky.

—————_—_ 4,
~~

REPORT ON FOUNDER’S DAY
ADDRESS

Even though he didn’t have an automobile and a
radio and a few other modern conveniences, the col-
lege boy of the year 1225 was no better behaved—
nor any worse—than the college boy of today, al-
though they are separated by more than seven centuries.

That is what William McChesney Martin, chair-
man of the board of directors of the St. Louis Fed-
eral Reserve Bank, told Washington and Lee Uni-
versity men, speaking on “The Aim of Undergraduate
Training” at the university's memorial exercise com-
memorating the birthday of General Robert ie ee.
_ Tracing the development of universities and univer-
sity life to a point they have reached today, Mr. Mar-
tin said “in going over the history of the early univer-
sities like Bologna and Paris, we find that in those
days human nature was exactly the same as today.
There were serious students and there were roisterous
students. ‘There were swaggering students and drunken
students; quite a class that seemed to have come to
the university for the purpose of having a good time
while they fooled themse'ves with the idea that their
object was a serious one.

“Maming youth,’ as an expression, may be mod -
ern,” the speaker said, “but it describes nothing new.
Just as the old grad of 1900 finds much to criticise
so doubtless the old grad of 1200 had bitter criticism
to make of such campus life as there was in 1225.

“But while human nature remains the same, the
world has greatly grown and circumstances and sur-
roundings have greatly changed,” Mr. Martin said.
“There is no reason why the present day university
should not adhere to the old principles. for they do
not change, but it must adapt itself to the conditions
of the present.

“Tt might be said that the old life was blown into

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

the air by the World War, and while it has been set-
tling into place, inventions of the past two decades
have followed each other in such close succession that
the conditions of life have been completely revolution-
ized. Perhaps it is not much to say that we are stand-
ing in a very maelstrom of civilization.”

Mr. Martin outlined the development of the auto-
mobile and the radio and their effects on every phase
of life, and declared that “with improved transporta-
tion on land and water and under the water and in
the air, through telegraph, cable, telephone and radio,
we are changing the means of time and resistance.’
In fact he added, material things are changing so
rapidly that in bewilderment there seems to be an idea
abroad that everything must change, and there is an
effort to remove the ancient landmarks. This last
condition Mr. Martin deplored, scoring the “tribe that
calls itself the ‘intelligentsia,’ and mocks at anyone as
uneducated who will not believe in the newest fad.”

In answer to the problem of the value of a college
education, Mr. Martin said, “he probably exists, but
as yet I have not found the man who regrets having
gone to college.” :

“As a rule the man who has not been to college
thinks he would be much better off had he been able
to get a four years’ training.” Mr. Martin continued,
“There are some few who are uncertain and some who
say that the present day high school education is. suffi-
cient and four years of college is a waste of time, but
as a rule these men seem to have the idea that the
making of money early in life is the chief end of ex-
istence. : :

“A number of men who have been through col-
lege think that the curriculum and campus life could
be improved in one respect or another. In fact, some
of them go so far as to see tendencies that they con-
sider extremely dangerous unless corrected. Not one
of them I have been able to talk to would say that
his four years at college were wasted.”

Mr. Martin then developed what he called the his-
torical method of solving the problem of the value
of the college. In the life of George Washington,
who did not have a college education and who gave
Washington and Lee its first endowment and in the
life of General Robert E. Lee, a graduate of West
Point, who spent the last years of his life as president
of the university, Mr. Martin finds the solution of
the problem—the development of a high character, the
‘preparation, not for a job but for life.

“It seems jundoubtedly from any viewpoint that

four years of undergraduate study is worthwhile,” he

said. “One thing is certain. Unless a man can spend
four years in uninterrupted work of this kind, if en-
gaged in making a living, perhaps he never will have
time to get acquainted with some subjects that other-

wise he might have known and thus gotten more out
of life.

“A knowledge of books enables a man in dealing
with men to benefit by the accumulated wisdom of
the past; a knowledge of men enables him to trans-
mute such wisdom into effective action.

“The aim of the university, and by this I mean the
faculty and the students, should be to turn out not
just ‘glad handers’, but trained men of high character
knowing their fellowman, and with every possibility
of developing into leaders.”

Himself a graduate of Washington and Lee, a
member of the class of 1895, Mr. Martin concluded
his address with a tribute to the men who gave the
university their names.

“We are fortunate not only because we have the
name of Washington and the name of Lee, but be-
cause this university had their personal interest,” he
said. “Washington to give it the first endowment and
we owe a duty to live up to his name; Lee gave the
last years of his life in our service. He walked this
very campus, he loved the trees that are familiar to
us too and he sleeps where he ever reminds us that
he is interested still. Overshadowing the presence
of every activity here is the presence of these two
great Christian men reminding us not to remove the
ancient landmarks and that to develop high character
is the highest service to the nation. Let us be true
to Washington, let us never dishonor Lee.”

een Og
¢

PERSONALS
CONGRESSMAN HARRY ST. G. TUCKER, ’78,

spent a short time in Lexington the latter part of
February, prior to a trip to Panama following the
adjournment of congress on March 4th. He expects
to return late in March. His daughter, Mrs. Silas
Mason of Lexington, Ky., will accompany him.

T.-R. BOYLE, ’76, of Memphis, Tenn., writes that
he is playing golf. He says—“I can beat Harry D.
Campbell. Can drive a ball as high as a corner lot
in Florida. You have the best college magazine in
this country. It is a credit to W. & 1.”

Former CONGRESSMAN GEORGE C. PEERY,
97, was in Lexington recently visiting his son, Al-
bert G. Peery, a junior in the academic school. Mr.
Peery, an alumnus of Washington and Lee, was en-
route from the inaugural to his home in ‘Tazewell.
He has been prominently mentioned as a candidate
for the governorship of Virginia, but has not ‘yet
reached a decision.

One of the last acts of President Coolidge just be-
fore going out of office was the signing of a bill grant-
ing a congressional gold medal to DR. ROBERT P
COOKE, ’92, Director of Public Health Service in
Lexington and Rockbridge County.

Among names suggested to fill the post of Solicitor-

 

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

General prominently appears that of HENRY W.
ANDERSON, ’98, of Richmond. Attorney-General
Mitchell said, however, that no effort would be made
toward filling the vacancy until after the special ses-
sion of Congress convenes.

COL. RUDOLPH BUMGARDNER, ’98, oi

Staunton, Va., addressed the Lexington Kiwanis club
at their weekly meeting at the Dutch Inn on Feb-
ruary /th.

H. CRIM PECK, ’07, dodged the rigors of a north-
ern winter to play golf in St. Petersburg, Fla. Be-
fore entering the annual winter invitation tourney he
played some rounds on the Lakewood Country Club
course.

A dispatch from St. Petersburg on Febuary 2lst
said : me

“A putting slump today checked Babe Ruth's bid
for golf championship honors in the annual jungle
amateur tournament. ‘The home-run king was elimi-
nated by H. C. Peck in the second round today by
6 and 5. Ruth’s drives and his approaches were good,
but his putts wouldn’t drop. Peck will meet Warren
Lassing of St. Petersburg in the semi-finals tomor-
row, while Walter Dew of Atlantic City, plays James
Howell of Rochester, N. Y., in the other bracket.

DR. WALTER DUNLAP, 712, of East Orange,
N. J., visited his mother in Lexington during the lat-
ter part of February.

PHIL HANGER, ’13, formerly of Staunton, has
located in Orange, Virginia, where he has opened a
hat cleaning and repair shop, which has proved to be
a great convenience for the people of that community.

At the annual meeting of the Richmond, Virginia,

Alumni Association, C. H. MORRISSETT, 715, was.
re-elected president of the Washington and Lee Club; —

C. W. MOSS, 718, vice-president; and O. M.
STUMPF, 719, secretary-treasurer. :

Governor Harry F. Byrd was the honor guest and
principal speaker. He discussed the placing of a
monument of General Lee in the old hall of delegates
and talked on the industrial development of Virginia.
Nearly fifty persons attended the occasion.

Recently appointed to the faculty of Duke Univer-
sity Medical School, DR. WILEY D. FORBUS, will
become professor of pathology. Dr. Forbus is an A.B.
of Washington and Lee, 16, and received his medical
degree from Johns Hopkins in 1923. He is at present
associate professor in pathology at that institution.

MR. and MRS. S. MERCER GRAHAM, 718, and
MR. and MRS. R. A. SMITH, 712, have just re-

turned from a week’s visit to New York.
MR. and MRS. MATTHEW W. PAXTON, JR.,

18, were visitors to New York City the latter part of
February.

MARRIED: Mr. Charles Howard McCain, ’20,
of New York City, and Miss Jane McElroy, of St.
Louis, Mo., on February 16th.

PETER W. MULLINS, ’24, of New York, ac-
companied by Mrs. Mullins, have come to Lexington
for an indefinite stay, and have taken a residence on
Sellers Avenue. Mr. Mullins is connected with the
White Studio in making photographs for the local
college annuals.

J. C. MORRISON, JR., 25, of Charleston, West
Va., has been practicing law since leaving college, be-
ing associated with the firm of Brown, Jackson and
Knight. He was elected secretary of the Charleston
Bar Association for 1929.

ROBERT C. SMITH, ’26, of Greenville, 5. C.,
now assistant professor of Sociology at Furman Uni-
versity, spent a few days in Lexington last month.

MAYNARD MONROE, ’25, formerly of Lynch-
burg and now employed in New York, gave a dinner
party in New York City several weeks ago in honor
of Miss Celeste Ivy and Miss Bessie Graves of Lynch-
burg. Among the guests were Constance Talmadge
and Richard Dix, famous moving picture stats, Miss
Mary Monroe Penick of Lexington and Miss Mar-
jory Carroll of Lynchburg.

MARRIED: Christopher B. Edwards, 27, and
Miss Gertrude Hardesty both of Fort Thomas, Ken-
tucky, on March 15th.

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Frank Gilliam, ’17, Feb-
ruary 23rd, a son, in the Jackson Memorial Hospital
of Lexington, Va.

o,
oe

OBITUARY
A DISTINGUISHED KAPPA ALPHA PASSES.

Dr. Samuel Z. Ammen, ’69, a distinguished alumnus
of Washington and Lee, died January 5, at Daytona
Beach, Florida, where he had gone for the winter
months. He was 85 years old.

Born at Fincastle, Va., October 22, 1843, Dr.

Ammen attended private school in his native town.
The outbreak of the Civil War, in 1861, found him
enrolled in Botetourt Male Academy, which was at
that time operated by William McCue and William
Wilson, both graduates of Washington College.

August 5, 1861, he volunteered in the Fincastle
Rifles, which subsequently became Company D,
Eleventh Virginia Infantry, and in that command and
in the Confederate States Navy he served practically
throughout the war. |

Re-entering the academy at Fincastle in 1865, he

completed his preparation for college, and, in Septem-

ber, 1866, matriculated at Washington College. In

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

June, 1869, he received the degree of Master of Arts.

With a distinguished record to his credit, he was

offered by Dr. Edwin S. Joynes, then Head of the
School of Modern Languages at Washington and
Lee, an assistant professorship in that school, which
was declined because of a contract already made to
become assistant-principal of an academy in Kentucky.

Dr. Ammen, as college student, participated in the
student activities of that period, serving as president
cf Washington Literary Society, and as the first editor
of the Southern Collegian, of which, with C. R.
Breckinridge, of Arkansas, he became the founder in
1868. He was initiated a member of Kappa Alpha
traternity. |

In 1870 he went to Baltimore as teacher of Greek,
Latin and Chemistry in a well-known boys’ prepara-
tory school of that city, and engaged in various activi-
ties; he visited Europe; studied at Johns Hopkins
University, where he learned Sanskrit and improved
and extended his training in Greek and Latin; pub-
lished through Henry Holt and Company a “Latin
Grammar for Beginners”; wrote “A Scientific De-
scription of Luray Cave; prepared a “History of
Maryland Commands’ in the Confederate Service;
and contributed frequently to several well-known
periodicals of that period.

In 1881 Dr. Ammen became literary editor of the
Baltimore Sun, until his retirement in 1911, he was
editorial leader writer for that paper. During the
period of his connection with The Sun, he contributed
extensively to Appleton’s Encyclopedia, and engaged
in other literary pursuits. In 1893, in recognition of
his achievements in his chosen field, Washington and
Lee conferred upon him the honorary degree of
Doctor of Letters. :

Dr. Ammen was married in Baltimore, in 1882, to
Miss Nannie Kelso Wetherall, of that city. Her
death occurred in 1905. One son, William W. Ammen,
of Philadelphia, survives this union.

During the years immediately following his retire-
ment from the editorship of The Sun, Dr. Ammen
continued to edit the Sun Almanac; spent much time
in leisurely travel in Europe, and read extensively in
chosen fields. More recently, making his permanent
home with his son and at the University Club, Balti-
more, he engaged extensively in private reading and
in writing upon topics of special interest to him. A
“History of Company D”, his war-time command,
was a product of such occupation.

Above his service to the Confederacy, however, or
his achievements as student, teacher and author, or
even his long and distinguished career as journalist,
Dr. Ammen cherished his connection with and his
contribution to the elaboration of the Kappa Alpha
fraternity. One of its first initiates, he lived to see
nearly sixty chapters actively functioning and firmly
established in as many of the leading colleges of the

South and Southwest. He was the author of its Code
and Ritual, a frequent and valued contributor to its
official organ, the Journal; for four terms its chief
executive officer; and ever ready to participate in its
counsels. :

The remains of Dr. Ammen were interred in the
old Presbyterian Cemetery at Fincastle.

DIED: Albert G. Thompson, ’67, at his home in
Colfax, La., in January, at the age of 83. He was
a student at W. & L. just after the Civil War while

General Lee was president. Among his treasured
possessions are his French diploma and other report

cards signed by the General. _

Mr. Thompson joined the Omiieiere Artillery in
1862 and served until the end of the war. He was a
student at W. & L. in 1866 and 1867, being forced tc
resign at the end of his second year because of severe
rheumatism contracted during the war. He retired to
his plantation upon his withdrawal from the college and
remained there until his death.

DIED: Colonel J. M. Banister, ’74, U. S. Army,

‘Retired, at Omaha, Nebraska, on January 31st. Fol-

lowing his graduation at W. & L. he took the M.D.
degree at the University of Virginia in 1878. He en-
tered the Medical Corps of the U. S. Army in a
and served through successive grades to Colonel,
clusive, retiring in 1910 at his own request scsi
thirty years of service to enter into private practice.
He was a member of the Order of the Cincinnati, a
Fellow of The American College of Surgeons, and
of the American Medical Association, and Professor
of Tropical Medicine at the Universitv of Nebraska.
His distinguished service in the Army, and private
practice in his specialty is well oo in the medical
profession.

DIED: Dr. Francis Arthur Scratchley, 78, at
Nice, France, on January 29th in his 71st year. He
was a descendant of the Rev. John Brown, one of
the founders of the University. For more than thirtv
years. Dr. Scratchley was a resident of New York
City, where he was until his retirement in 1912 clin-
ical lecturer on nervous diseases and chief of clinic
in University and Bellevue Hospital Medical College
of the New York University. Since 1918 he has lived
abroad in London and in Nice.

DIED: Francis Henry Smith Morrison, ’87, a grad-
uate of Washington and Lee, at his home in East
Orange, N. J. Mr. Morrison also was graduated from
Virginia Military Institute.

Dr. Livingston W. Smith, head of the mathematics
department here, is a cousin of Mr. Morrison.

DIED: Alexander McC. Hamilton, ’03,  sud-
denly Sunday night, February 17th, at his home in

Chicago. A prominent business man, he was at the

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

time of his death assistant employment manager of
the Illinois Bell Telephone Company of Chicago.

JOHN S. MUNCE, WASHINGTON AND LEE
TRUST EL, BEAD: |

John S. Munce, for many years prominent in the
business and social life of Richmond, and a member
of the Board of ‘Trustees of Washington and Lee
University, died Saturday evening, February 23, at his
Richmond home. Mr. Munce was in his sixty-ninth
year. He was in Lexington at the meeting of Board
of ‘Trustees on January 19, and was chairman of the
trustee committee charged with nominating a presi-
dent to succeed President Henry Louis Smith.

Mr. Munce was a native of Ireland. He came to
‘America as the representative for Kingan & Company,
and for forty-five years has been manager of their
Eastern branch with headquarters at Richmond. He
took a deep interest in civic affairs.

He was buried in Richmond Monday afternoon,
February 25. Among the honorary pallbearers were
the trustees of Washington and Lee, President Henry
Louis Smith, Mr. Paul M. Penick, and Dr. James
L. Howe.

DIED: Mrs. R. Barton McCrum, of Lexington, Vir-
ginia, at her home on February 11th. She had long
been a sufferer from ill health.

Mrs. McCrum was the mother of the University
librarian, Miss Blanche McCrum, and of an alumnus,
Robert W. McCrum, ’05, of Gainsville, Ga. Her
son-in-law, Dr. E. P. Bledsoe, ’00, is a surgeon in the
U. S. Army, now of Chicago.

DIED: Mrs. Mary M. Manly, widow of Dr.

Charles Manly, a beloved Lexington pastor for many
years, at the home of her daughter at Gaffney, 5. C.,
where she was spending the winter.

Mrs. Manly was the mother of a prominent alumnus,
Bazil Manly, ’06, of Washington, D. C.

DIED: Charles James Faulkner, former jurist and
U. S. Senator from West Virginia, at his home at
Martinsburg, January 10th. His son, C. James Faulk-
ner, Jr., 92, was an alumnus of Washington and Lee.
Among the honorary pallbearers for the funeral were:
John W. Davis, 92; Newton D. Baker, ’94; Harry
St. G. Tucker, 78.

DIED: Henry H. McCorkle, 98, of heart failure,
in the elevator of a New York office building, March
21. He was a native of Rockbridge County, a lawyer
of New York City, a brother of Rev. KE. W. McCorkle,
78, of Walter L. McCorkle, °77. Funeral services
were held in the Lexington Presbyterian Church,
Sunday. March 24. Students in the local Chapter
of Phi Kappa Psi, of which Mr. McCorkle was a
member, acted as pallbearers.

Mr. McCorkle had long been active in the New
York Alumni Chapter of the Washington and Lee
Alumni, Inc., and in various patriotic and Southern
Societies and organizations. He _ practiced law in
partnership with his brother, Walter L. McCorkle,
and was connected with the Manufacturer’s Trust
Co., of New York City. :

_—_ FO,
*

PHI Bela KAPPA:

Symbol of high character, general culture and
thorough scholarship, membership in Phi Beta Kappa

 

UNIVERSITY COLONNADE.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE egy

is awarded each year by the local chapter to students
who have attained such distinction on the campus, and
to alumni whose achievements after graduation have
merited such recognition.

Thirteen students and three alumni were elected to
membership this year. Students, Gatewood Brock, G.
W. Dunnington, L. A. Haskell, N. EF. Hawes, M. M.
Heuser, R. B. Lee, J. L. Lockett, Jr., L. F. Powell, I.

T. Sanders, J. M. Shackleford, T. J. Sugru, J. C. Wil- —

bourn, W. H. Wilcox, Jr., and Bernard Yoeppe, Jr.,
and alumni, G. C. Peery, 97, of Tazewell, Va., law-
yer, business man, ex-congressman, of ‘Tazewell, Va.,
father of A. G. Peery, junior student at Washington
and Lee. And C. H. Morrisette, ’14, one time W. &
L,. law professor, law editor, law revisor and lawyer;
now chairman of the Virginia Tax Commission, and
president of the Richmond, Virginia, W. & L. Alumni
Club.

GREENBRIER

Mountains, streams and White Sulphur Springs
distinguish Greenbrier County, W. Va.  Nestling
amidst the County’s rugged beauty is Greenbrier Mili-
tary School, H. B. Moore, Principal, and J. M. Moore,
08, Assistant Principal.

Greenbrier sends many students to Washington
and Lee. An unusually high percentage of their
representatives achieve high distinction on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. Reason: J. M. Moore, B.A.,
08, Ass’t Principal, David T. Moore, ’05, Secretary-
Treasurer, and Charles J. Ellyson, B.A., ’10, professor.

“Joe” Moore entered Washington and Lee in 1905,
completed the course in three years; entered the Union
Theological Seminary, graduated; entered the French
Army, served 18 months overseas; returned to assist
in the direction of the famed military school, to teach,
and to manage athletics. His brother, D. T. Moore,
left Washington and Lee in 1905 to enter the banking
business, was auditor for the National Exchange Bank
of Roanoke until 1912; became part owner and Secre-
tary-Treasurer of Greenbrier. Charley Ellyson came
to Washington and Lee from Waynesboro, Va., grad-
uated in 1910, taught at Fishburne Military Academy ;
entered the army, returned to join the Moores of
Greenbrier. : :

since the days of Victor Friend, ’14, Greenbrier has
sent able students across the mountain. ‘Three have
been presidents of the Washington and Lee student
body, many have been outstanding athletes. Among
those to distinguish themselves were Joe and Homer
A. “Rocky” Holt, “Tex” Tilson, Pete Hisle, Ed.
Smith, Billy Lott and numerous others.

Also from Washington and Lee went FE. M. “Eddie”

Cameron, °25, to coach Greenbrier’s successful ath-
letic teams. He was followed by E. G. “Bingo”
Barker, ’26. }

Greenbrier is a good friend.

eg
¢

BOOKS
KEYS TO THE FUTURE:

Petroleum and Coal, the Keys to the Future, il-
lustrated. W. T. Thom, 7°13, Ph.D., Princeton
University Press, $2.50.

Man discovered fire. With fire and for fire he
made conquest of Nature’s resources, discovered min-
erals and metals, progressed in proportion to discovery
and utilization until today when Petroleum and Coal
are the keys to the future.

The Story:

A brief and comprehensive review of man’s competi-
tive conquest of mineral resources forms a historical
background. A scientifically accurate and easily in-
telligible account of the origin of coal, its composition,
classifications and infinite variety, the geography and
geology of its location and the practical survey of
the coal mining industry fully occupies the fore-
ground. The origin, formation, occurrence and the
methods of exploration for oil complete the story,
spread it into the horizon of the future.

Like most well compacted and instructive non-tech-
nical discussions, the story is replete with diagrams.
charts, photographs and_ bibliographical references
which give the authentic stamp of scientific accuracy

Too. brief and comprehensive for a text-book, too
plain and practical for a scientific treatise, Dr. Thom’s
work is primarily an intelligible hand-book for those
who seek information, for those who would enquire

pleasantly into the world’s economic and commercial

future. Readable, accurate, concise, comprehensive,
“Petroleum and Coal” is an excellent scientific story
for non-scientific minds.

The Author:

Dr. William Taylor Thom, Jr., 13, is the son of Dr.
William Taylor Thom, A.B., 69, M.A., ’70, Litt.D., ’89.
At Washington and Lee he was a Phi Gamma Delta,
Vice-president of the student body, B.S., ’13. He
went to Johns Hopkins University, received his Ph.D. ;
worked with the U. S. Geological Survey, specialized
on the geology of fuels. He was a guest lecturer on
Mineral Resources of the Department of Geology at
Princeton University, became associate Professor of

Geology there in 1926. He was elected to member-

ship by the Washington and Lee Chapter of Phi Beta

 

 

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Kappa soon after his appointment to the Princeton
Faculty.

ORACLES:

The Oracles of God. Wm. Thomson Hanzsche, 713,
Fleming H. Revell Co., cloth, $1.25.

The prophets, major and minor, have always been a

puzzle to superficial students of the Bible—and the
ordinary, every day Bible reader is a superficial stu-
dent. But the prophets “were not predicters, de-
clarers of the future: they were discoverers, revealers
of the present. ‘They were not fore-tellers; they were
forth-tellers.”’

From that angle Dr. Hanzsche approaches the lives
and works of the seventeen prophets; concisely re-
views the conditions under which they lived, relates
them and their teachings to their environment; deftly
applies these teachings to modern times and condi-
tions, speaks in modern language. Withal the clear
strain of deep spirituality, so often absent in conscious
attempts to “Humanize the Bible,” is forcibly evident
throughout.

For the deeper student there are references for par-
allel Bible reading and questions to stimulate individual
thinking. i :

Briefer and more interesting than Buble lectures;
fuller and much more vivid and alive than outline
discussions, The Oracles of God provides a warm and
concise portrayal of the Prophets and their works, a
handbook for lay students, a guide book for Bible
Teachers. |

The Author:

William Thomson Hanzsche entered Washington
and Lee in 1911, graduated in 1913, received his M.A.,
and B.D., at Princeton, studied at the U. of Chicago.
He was pastor at Alton, Il., at Philadelphia; 1s now
pastor of the Prospect St. Presbyterian Church at
Trenton, N. J. He was awarded the degree of Doc-
tor of Divinity by Washington and Lee last com-
mencement. He has long been active in the Alumni
Association, is Chaplain of the New York City Alumni
Chapter. '

A REQUEST: ae

To Dr. Thom and Dr. Hanzsche, thanks for their
thoughtful generosity in sending copies of their books
to the Alumni Association.

Special bookshelves in the Alumni Club room are
reserved for the works of alumni authors. <Auto-
graphed copies of every published literary work by an
alumnus will be a welcome and desired gift.

Reviews of recent works will be published in the
ALUMNI MacazINg as often as such books are re-
ceived. |

LATE NEWS

TROUBADOUR TRIP:

A feature of organized student activity is the an-

nual spring tour of the Troubadours. This year their

vehicle will be “The Haunted House” by Owen Da-
vis. Approved by the Faculty Committee on Dra-
matics and under the responsibility of ‘Troubadour
Manager Van Gilbert and President Al. Callison, the
local Thespians will tour “the provinces,” will show at

Fast Radford, Va.—Monday, April 1.
Bluefield, W. Va.—Tuesday, April 2.
Marion, Va.—Wednesday, April 3.
Abingdon, Va.—Thursday, April 4.
Bristol, Tenn.-Va.—Saturday, April 6.

SOULHERN COLLEGIANS:

Semi-Pro. student orchestra which toured the
Southern States, played on Transatlantic liners and
performed in Paris during the summer were engaged
to furnish the music for the William and Mary stu-
dent dancers during the week of March 18.

SP at

The Southern Interscholastic Press Association or-
ganized here four years ago for the purpose of cen-
tralizing Prep. and High School Journalistic activity
at Washington and Lee, will convene April 9, 10, 11;
will consume ‘‘made in Dixie’ edibles at their annual
banquet, will submit their publications in prize com-
petition, will be advised on editorial, reportorial and
managerial problems.

CAMPUS POLITICS:

Always a miniature political arena the Washington
and Lee Campus will become a hotbed for student
political aspirations April 8-15. Students will hear
political speeches, receive handbills and visits of 1m-
portunation ; will make fraternity political allignments ;
will vote at the Chapel April 18, for student body of-
ficials, for dance leaders and managers, publication
editors and managers, for a cheer leader.

Students will not vote for athletic team managers.
Nowadays these important positions are won by try-
outs, by a vote of the Athletic Council from the fittest
to survive the rigors of apprenticeship.

CURRICULAR CHANGES:

Progress:

Long advocated, a revision of the Washington and
Lee requirements for the A. B. degree is now being
made. ‘Target for advocates of more practical edu-

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

cation have been the heavy requirements for the study
of modern languages. Changes tentatively approved
contemplate a reduction to twelve semester hours of
foreign languages, the requirement that every fresh-
man take a year’s course in contemporary civilization
and two semester courses in each of the two sciences.

Aim:

To better adapt the curriculum to modern living—
these and other changes, have been actively advocated
by President Henry Louis Smith for some time.
Many of his proposals have had Faculty approval, are
now supported.

Sliding Scale:

Still retained is the sliding scale of requirements
of foreign languages. Students with a large number
of entrance units in languages are not required to
over-burden themselves with the study of languages
at Washington and Lee—a just and equitable provi-
sion.

Students who aspire to the A. B. degree and have
not studied languages in High or Prep. Schools are
required to take a maximum and_ over-burdening
number of courses in languages; an unjust and _ill-
fitting requirement,—unjust because the student has
no preliminary background or understanding for
language study and because he is required to main-
tain the scholastic pace set by better prepared class-
mates ;—ill-fitting because the student’s aim is in an-
other direction, his preparatory and undergraduate
study a specialty in other branches of the academic
course, which must be abandoned for the top heavy
and, to him, useless languages.

FIRST BASEBALL GAME;

Aspirants for 1929 diamond honors met the nine
from Lynchburg College March 21, achieved a 9-7
victory in a hard hitting but mediocre opening exhibi-

tion. Pitchers remain a problem. Good back stop |

material was found in Litman and T'alliaferro.

JOHN Fea VOON, 11, VISITS:

Paying a surprise visit John Herndon, ’11, Income
Tax specialist, and Lecturer on Political Science and
Taxation at Haverford College, Pennsylvania, took a
holiday auto trip to Lexington with his wife and fam-
ily: called on his former professors and Lexington
friends. Of John’s recent activities there is much to
be said in the next issue of the ALUMNI MaGazINeE.

CORNER:

Developed as unofficial headquarters for student
body activity and a general meeting place the “Corner,
Inc.,” student department store, diagonally across
from the Postoffice and opposite the old High School
(Anne Smith Academy) changed hands last Fall.
The business passed from E. P. Davis, ’15, C. S.
Glasgow, 09, and M. G. Campbell, 05, to R. A.
Smith, °15, and Hugh D. Ebert, ’28; is now managed
by Mr. Ebert—the “Hot” Ebert of late basketball
fame.

 

CHARLOTTESVILLE,

PRINTERS

COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS

PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS
PERSONAL STATIONERY

Surber Publishing Co.

(INCORPORATED )

VIRGINIA

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THREAL:

Louisiana is having political troubles. Impeach-
ment proceedings are being instituted against the
Louisiana governor. Among other things it is alleged
that the present governor did not like state representa-
tive J. Y. Sanders, Jr., 713; feared his activities ; made
plans to bring about his sudden demise; according to
the testimony in the hands of the Louisiana Senate.

Representative Sanders attended Washington and
Lee for two years, graduated at L. S. U., at Tulane
in Law; was Captain in the 346th Infantry overseas ;
practiced law at Bogolusa and Baton Rouge; is the
son of former Louisiana Governor J. Y. Sanders.
His comments, if any, on the alleged destructive
plans of beleagured Governor Huey P. Long have
not been reported.

TRACK SCHEDULE:

Varsity trackmen open their spring outdoor sched-_

ule in a dual meet with Maryland here, April 1, jour-
ney to North Carolina University, April 13; to North
Carolina State, April 15; return to meet with Rich-
mond University here, April 20, and V. P. I. here,
April 27; enter the state meet at the University of
Virginia, May 4; engage Duke here, May 11 and en-
ter the Southern Conference meet, May 17-18.

REVOLUTION REPORTS:

When the news breaks, the New York Times hur-
ries its star reporters to the scene of activity. Among
those covering the stops of hero Lindberg in Central
America for the Times was “Ike” Shuman, 71/7.
When the latest Mexican Revolution “broke”, star
correspondent Leland Cappock Speers, 97, was sent
to the journalistic front. Recent and most accurate
reports from the West Coast field appearing in the
famed Times were under the signature of famed cor-
respondent Speers.

FRATERNITY BASKETBALL:

The official basketball season is followed by an
inter-fraternity basketball tournament. Eliminating
their preliminary opponents the Phi Delta Theta team
defeated the Phi Kappa Psi’s and the Beta Theta Pi
team overcame the Pi Kappa <Alpha’s in the sem1-
finals. :

Phi Delts and Betas thus met in the finals. At the
end of the first half the Betas, last year’s winners, led
by the score of 7-5. During the second half the Beta
Five showed championship form, crushed their op-
ponents 22-8, retained the inter-fraternity basketball
cup.

FINALS:

Plans are being made for the annual commence-
ment celebration to be held this year June 1-4. The
usual series of dances will be held starting Friday

night, May 31, and closing with the Final Ball, Tues-

day, June 4th.
The baccalaureate sermon will be delivered Sunday,
June 2nd, in the Lee Chapel by Dr. George Stoves,

- pastor of West End Methodist Church of Nashville,

Tenn. ‘The commencement speaker has not yet been
announced.

Since the annual alumni meeting is now held in the
Fall on the day of the home-coming football game,
there will be no formal program for alumni entertain-
ment at commencement. However alumni will gather
informally as heretofore, will meet and greet their
former professors; will be entertained at the Alumni
Building; will probably be tendered an outdoor buffet
luncheon by the University ; will probably rally around
Dan Owen and his famous hams; will attend the
dances as the guests of the student body. Other fea-
tures are to be announced later.

ENGINEER’S PROMOTION:

James W. Kern, Jr., 705, son of Dr. and Mrs. J. W..
Kern, retired professor of Latin, was district engi-
neer for all of the Southern Lines of the Illinois Cen-
tral Railroad with headquarters at New Orleans.
Railroad promotions are notoriously slow—but recog-
nition of efficient service is sure. Engineer Kern was
recently made Superintendent of the Springfield Divi-
sion of the I. C.; will make his headquarters at Clin-
ton, Ill.; will direct the largest division of his railroad
outside Chicago.

SECOND BASEBALL GAME:

The discounted Generals’ nine played Catholic Uni-
versity here Tuesday, March 26, defeated them 6-4 in
a hard hitting contest on a muddy field. Pitchers Ra-
nier and Wright made an encouraging showing, indi-
cated that “Cy” Twombly and “Dick” Smith might
yet develop a winning aggregation behind an array
of able flingers ere the season is over.

NATIONAL ORATORICAL REPRESENTA-
TIVE:

Preliminary to the National Oratorical contest at
Los Angeles, four Washington and Lee students will
compete with an oration on the constitution in the
Lee Chapel, April 12. The winner will compete in a
State Contest, if successful will compete in a District
Contest; if again successful, will represent Washing-
ton and Lee at the Los Angeles finals.

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

~McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

| ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

 

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

e

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their

-appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,

no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO.), Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

 

 

 

a

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

 

Quality

Service

Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

~McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

| ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

OUnexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

 

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

e

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their

appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,

no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

 

Charlottesville, Va.

Quality

Service

Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

fi

 

   

(oe

 

aa = TE Al

jet your first book

ae
Vpn

  

   

 

 

 

Henry Seidel Canby

from the

~ ERE ( Book-oft-the-Month
: Club

Take advantage of this special offer—made
to reach our “first hundred thousand”

NOTICE TO PRESENT MEMBERS: If you did not get your first book
free, and wish to take advantage of this offer, you may do so by extending
your subscription for an additional year from its present date of expiration.

VER 95,000 book-readers now be-
long to the Book-of-the-Month
Club. The organization is engaged in a
“drive” to reach one hundred thou-
sand—a scant five thousand more.
Those who join now will be given their

first book free.

A great many people (we know)
have been on the verge of joining this
organization, but have “put it off’
through busyness or procrastination.
If this has been true in your case, it is
clearly an advantage to you to delay
no longer. We suggest simply, that you
get full information at once, about
what the Book-of-the-Month Club does
for you, and decide once for all whether
you want to join. ,

In this connection, here is a perti-
nent fact that may be important to
you. Of the 95,000 people who now
belong to the Book-of-the-Month Club,
not a single one was induced to join by a
salesman or by personal solicitation of
any kind. They were simply given the
facts as to what it does for book-

  

 

readers. After reading these facts, they
subscribed.

And what sort of people are they?
Cabinet members, senators, judges,
governors; leaders of industry and
finance; the outstanding figures in
thousands of communities large and
small. Our list of members, indeed,
reads like a who’s who, in every pro-
fession, in every walk of life. These
are judicious people, in other words,
not of the kind to be easily influenced
or to follow fads. They know what
they want.

This being the case—if you have
ever thought of joining the club—it
does seem sensible to get the facts as
to how it operates as quickly as possible,
and then (if you want to) join before
this special “‘first-book-free”’ offer ex-
pires. This will happen soon; for our

membership increased by almost fifty
thousand in 1928. So, if you are in-
terested, mail the coupon now, before
you forget to do so.

 

 

 

BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB, Inc.
386 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Please send me, without cost, a booklet outlining how
the Book-of-the-Month Club operates. This request
involves me in no obligation to subscribe to your service.

 

Heywood Dorothy Christopher William Allen ORG So a

Chairman Broun Canfield Morley hite
THE EDITORIAL BOARD OF THE BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB Paes as ee ee
Oey a Be

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

