 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
and SUMMER BULLETIN

OF

Washington and Lee Un

iversity

 

 

AUGUST, 1925 No. 5

Vol. |

 

 

 

 

*

BRS *
ade

‘

M *
pam? gre
‘| ;
Jee

te RS ee te
Ma ROS

‘

.
te
g

 

THE COLONNADE IN SPRING

 

 

 

40c Per Copy

$2.00 Per Year

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of ©
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business
Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-
tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di- —

at a distance, or of a special professional character.

rectory. Rates on application.

 

 

 

K. I. McKay, '04
R. W. Withers, ’05
M. B. Withers, ’10

McKAY AND WITHERS
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
Tampa, Florida

VINCENT M. MILES

Member of Firm

Pryor AND MILES
Attorneys at Law

Fort Smith,
Arkansas

f
———

PAUL D. BARNS
ATTORNEY AT LAW
Miami, Florida

Firm of Thompson, Barns & Thompson |

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAwyer

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 926-927: Robson-Prichard Building,
Huntington, West Virginia

New York Office: 61 Broadway
Stuart CHEVALIER, 03

MILLER AND CHEVALIER

ATTORNEYS AND CouNSELORS AT LAW
Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

*

—————

L H. CARLOCK
ATTORNEY AT LAW

LaFollette, Tennessee

 

General Civil Practice Throughout
Eastern Kentucky
BEN D. SMITH, ’14
MEMBER OF BEN V. SMITH AND SON,

Lawyers
Somerset, Kentucky

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR

ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS

Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401 Philadelphia

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, ’13
ATTORNEY AT LAW

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

 

Compliments of the President of the
Alumni, Inc.

E. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Michigan, Ohio State and Kenyon are represented in this Agency. There
are usually one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

 

ALEX M. HITZ

ATTORNEY AT Law

210 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlanta, Georgia

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

the preference.

 

Applications from W. and L. alumni have

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
Law OFFICES

Commercial National Bank Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN, 715

ATTORNEY AT LAW

Suite 479 Mills Building,

San Francisco, California

 

 

:¢

 

~~ “~

.
. .
Fathi nin tinea ae aceite ei et ee een

 

 

Se
E. P. DAVIS, President C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE C@RNERK, inc

(Opposite Post Office)

General Headquarters for W. and L. Men

School Supplies, Books, Stationery, Athletic Goods, Haberdashery
Alumni Are Always Welcome

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

THE ALLIMNI MAGAZINE

and SUMMER BULLETIN

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

 

Ek. C. Carrrey, President VERBON E. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GraHaM, Jr., Treasurer I. V. Davies, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., April 8, 1913, and September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

 

PAGE PAGE
mame youngest Lee”: .iicisvctee eens nee Frontispiece Wm. M. Morrison Memorial Completed........ 22
memes of the Yeas. .asaeane Gumeke sss ce es 5 Prominent Editor Presents Coins.............. 23
eal. PTOSPECtS .5 9'..»'s 6 eee eee aes 7 An Honor Member of Four Classes........... 24
MCR | eos ssw oe ee 7 A Great W. and L. Jurist—F. H. Rudkin, ’85... 25
Brooklyn University Club Honors W. and L.... 9 A Prodigal’s Return—J. F. Robertson, ’69...... 26
Roanoke Alumni -Meeting .............s.eee0. 10 Colonel: Edward ‘H. “ColsOi... : <o9i. <<. mans 26

10 Alumnus Mentioned for Bench—T. H. Shelton.. 27
A Supreme Court Judge—C. W. Mason, ’11.... 28

The Louisiana Alumni Assn. for Example......

misuse of the “Swing” Stopped............... 11
1 ae A Record of High Achievement—LeRoy Hodges. 29
Seem Directory Delayed. 254 sesndas 6545 Me - « 13 , ;
y 2 oe Raytord: W.. Alley, “10. 2.4 Vics ee ee oe 30
onor System Attains Increased Fame......... 13 A iiatek Oia 3]
Minutes of Alumni, Inc. Meeting.............. 14 The Apnelarhind ag a 32
Familiar Faces Absent from Law Faculty...... 15 “Bob” McDougle, ’17, Wins Many Distinctions.. 33
fee the Faculty... . sc... seen oe as 16 Diieeiaier ti kites 34,
Who’s Who on the Faculty—Robt. H. Tucker... 17 The New Plan for Class Reunions............. 37
meme resident’s. Page ....cgmmap Aegean Leases 18 POTSOMAIS “oi k ss ccuk pctae 6 ¥eRe tee 38
Lee School of Journalism Established.......... 19 CHOU os Sas (aS ca Ek See 42
eee ae 20 Alumnus Has Fine Record of Service......... 42
Muent at Finals 1925". . 2. ..4. 14. .isccucue 21 More about that First Curved Ball............. 43

re

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

ate

 

 

Reha ae we et,
r’ — /

en

 

THE YOUNGEST LEE
Robert E. Lee, III, Son of Dr. and Mrs. Geo. Bolling Lee, of New York City, with His Mother

(Copyright, 1925. The Vogue Co. “Reproduced by‘permission. A Steichen photograph)

hy dil ee lk tte te ik

, a

7.
Ne atid

hata hy

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and SUMMER BULLETIN

 

Vo. |

 

AUGUST 1925

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

No. 5

 

 

At the End of the Year

About one hundred and fifty returning alumni
registered at Alumni Headquarters during Finals
this year. There was a large number of the younger
alumni staying in fraternity houses or with Lexing-
ton friends who did not register.

The feature of Finals was the brilliant Commence-
ment address delivered by Francis Trevelyan Miller,
01. Litt.D., LL.D., in the Lee Chapel, Tuesday, June
ninth. Dr. Miller, alumnus of the law school and
noted author, lecturer and economist, delivered a
powerful address of intense interest in which he re-
viewed the entire field of history in a wealth of quo-
tation, reference and allusion, that bespoke an inti-
mate and detailed knowledge of his subject. His
address was enthusiastically received by the one hun-
dred and twenty members of the graduating class
and their many friends.

Honorary degrees were conierred upon FE. C.
Glass, LL.D., Lynchburg, Virginia; James M. Lee,
Litt.D., New York City; Dr. George A. Wauchope,
’85, Litt.D., Columbia, South Carolina; the Reverend
Twyman Williams, D.D., Hampden-Sidney, Vir-
ginia; the Reverend Churchill J. Gibson, D.D., Lex-
ington, Virginia; and the Reverend W. E. Davis,
D.D., Staunton, Virginia.

The annual meeting of the Alumni, Incorporated,
Monday, June seventh, at the Library, was stimu-
lated by the presence of the Honorable John W. Da-
vis and several members of the University Board of
Trustees. Judge E. C. Caffrey, ’09, presided.
Among the important actions taken at this meeting
(outlined in more detail elsewhere in this issue) was
the resolve to change the plan and date of alumni
reunions, the appointment of committees to draw
up a new constitution for the Alumni, Incorported,
and to perfect plans for financing a proposed Stu-
dent-Alumni suilding and the reception of Green-
lee D. Letcher’s report on the Reverend W. M.
Morrison memorial. Dr. William Allan and E. P.
Davis were elected to the Board of Trustees of the
Alumni, Incorporated. Charles S. Glasgow and E.
L. Graham were elected resident members, and F.
W. McWane and E. D. Cameron non-resident
members of the Athletic Council.

 

Dr. F. T. Mier, 01

Commencement Speaker

 

 

An enlarged program of social entertainment was
enjoyed by returning alumni, their families, and the
parents of students, who were the guests of the Uni-
versity. The reception given by President and Mrs.
Henry Louis Smith Monday evening, June eighth,
and the alumni buffet luncheon on the lawn Monday
noon were unusually attractive. The auto ride
through Goshen Pass Monday afternoon, and the
alumni tea for visiting ladies on the Library lawn
were greeted as particularly pleasant expressions of
hospitality.

From the general alumni standpoint, Finals came

 

Joun Lewis, ’25
President of the Senior Class

 

 

to a glorious close with the Senior-Alumni ball Mon-
day night. The Senior figure was led by John
Lewis, of Jacksonville, Florida, President of the
Class, and Miss Miranda Yerkes. Miss Yerkes will
be remembered as one of the Washington and Lee
sponsors at the Florida game last year. The Alumni
figure was lead by Mr. and Mrs. R. A. Smith.
“Captain Dick’s” fame is not limited to the baseball
diamond.

On the following night the Final ball opened in a
blaze of glory that continued throughout the night.
The figure was led and unusually well executed by
George S. Wilson, Junior, of Owensboro, Kentucky,
and Miss Eleanor Rash.

The following visitors were registered at Alumni
Headquarters :

Wyatt French, ’24, Chattanooga, Tennessee.

Roy G. Nichols, ex-’25, Norfolk, Virginia.

F. L. Sattes, ’23, St. Albans, West Virginia.

Matt G. Henderson, ’22, Raleigh, North Carolina.

George T. Parry, ’24, Indianapolis, Indiana.

Jerry P. Camp, ’22, New Orleans, Louisiana.

M. I. Walton, ex-’25, Danville, Virginia.

Roy J. Grimley, ’21, Ridgewood, New Jersey.

W. J. Elgin, ’01, Richlands, Virginia.

Leonard T. Brown, 719, New Haven, Connecticut.

Irving M. Lynn, °19, Lynchburg, Virginia.

Otis Howe, ’24, Helena, Arkansas.

G. D. Davidson, °13, Warrior Mine, West Virginia.

George S. Mercke, ’24, Louisville, Kentucky.

William C. McKnight, ’24, Demarest, N. J.

J. C. Hoover, ’22, Webster Springs, West Virginia.

Edwin H. Myrick, ’24, Girard, Louisiana.

O. B. Harvey, ’03, Clifton Forge, Virginia.

John W. Lee, ’01, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

J. P. Long, Jr., ’24, Memphis, Tennessee.

James L. Templeton, ’87, Staunton, Virginia.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

R. H. Martin, 80, Charleston, West Virginia.
E. T. Coman, 790, San Rafael, California.

L. Preston Collins, ’22, Marion, Virginia.

J. R. Campbell, °17, Tioga, West Virginia.
Claude P. Light, *11, Louisville, Kentucky.

E. C. Caffrey, 09, Newark, New Jersey.

Dan B. Owen, 713, Doylesville, Virginia.

J. Beverly Dooley, ’24, Roanoke, Virginia.

J. Nevin Kilmer, ’11, Martinsburg, West Virginia.
A. L. Bennett, ’18, Charlottesville, Virginia.

S. W. Frierson, 00, Florence, Alabama.

R. B. Campbell, ’24, Alexandria, Virginia.
Omer T. Kaylor, *11, Hagerstown, Maryland.
H. A. Holt, °18, Lewisburg, West Virginia.
W. R. Knebelkamp, ’21, Louisville, Kentucky...
O. B. Barker, Jr., °13, Lynchburg, Virginia.

J. F. Robertson, ’69, Charlotte, North Carolina.
Charles E. Burks, 710, Lynchburg, Virginia.
Ewing S. Humphreys, *10, Atlanta, Georgia.
James R. Caskie, ’06, Lynchburg, Virginia.
Charles A. Tutwiler, ’24, Welch, West Virginia.
Charles W. MeNitt, *17, New York City.
Walter Smith, ‘20, Nanking, China.

J. Seybert Hansel, °17, McDowell, Virginia.
George A. Wauchope, ’84, Columbia, S. C.

W. S. Forrester, ’82, Louisville, Kentucky.

R. A. Ruff, 03, Elkhorn, West Virginia.

M. I. Dunn, Jr., ’23, Richmond, Virginia.

John W. Greene, ’24, Knoxville, Tennessee.

D. Newton Farnell, Jr., ’24, Greensboro, N. C.
J. Shirley Riley, ’16, Roanoke, Virginia.

B. R. Hooper, *11, Covington, Virginia.

J. Vaughn Penn, ’23, Madison, North Carolina.
FE. P. Crockett, ’23, Wytheville, Virginia.

D. S. Kilmer, 11, Martinsburg, West Virginia.
C. S. McNulty, 02, Roanoke, Virginia.

W. Guy Laughon, °15, Roanoke, Virginia.
John G. Anderson, ’23, Bristol, Virginia.
Robert M. Curtis, °16, Roanoke, Virginia.

G. W. Rader, ’04, Murat, Virginia.

James R. Fain, 719, Danville, Virginia.
Berkeley Cox, ’14, Richmond, Virginia.

William Allan, 02, Charlotte, North Carolina.
Donald G. Grimley, ’23, Ridgewood, New Jersey.
J. G. Johnston, *11, Murat, Virginia.

A. Ll. Gifford, ’24, Greensboro, North Carolina.
R. M. Cabell, *20, Waynesboro, Virginia.

J. S. Grasty, ’04, Charlottesville, Virginia.

J. T. Engleby, ’20, Roanoke, Virginia.

W. Wellington Farrow, ’03, Inglewood, California.
John C. Moomaw, 711, Hollins, Virginia.
George W. Chaney, ’11, Roanoke, Virginia.

R. M. Winborne, ’11, Roanoke, Virginia.

J. W. Collison, ’20, Staunton, Virginia.

Wilfred B. Webb, ’22, Mt. Sidney, Virginia.

(Continued on page 14) a

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1925 FOOTBALL PROSPECTS

The 1924 Generals made an excellent record, win-
ning the state championship and losing only three
encounters. Next year “Red” Hawkins, sterling
center, “Bo” McMillan, star half-back, the incom-
parable “Eddie” Cameron, full-back and Johnny
McVey, substitute quarter-back, will be absent from
the line-up. The possibility of the return of Mc-
Millan and Hawkins to complete their remaining
year of eligibility has been discredited by their inti-
mate friends.

On the other hand, except for Hawkins, the in-
vincible General line (which held W. Va. scoreless
until the last few minutes of play) will return in-
tact. It will be strengthened by a strong line of sub-
stitutes from last year’s Freshmen and scrubs. In
addition, the Freshmen will furnish an unusual crop
of speedy and heady back-field material.

Spring football practice brought out two ten-sec-
ond men from last year’s line. Such speed may not
be allowed to go to waste. In fact next year’s ma-
terial shows a remarkable combination of speed and
weight. Instead of the light backfield and heavy
line, characteristic of recent teams, spectators of
next season’s battles may witness a brace of tower-
ing giants moving with incredible speed behind the
with a greater abundance of
substitutes in case of casualty.

The success of the 1925 Generals can only be
prophesied. ‘The details are in the capable hands of
Coach “Jimmy”
head coach.

 

same famous line

DeHart, serving his last season as
Coming to Washington and Lee with
the institution of the one year rule, DeHart has had
to make the best of scanty material. He has had to
stick to straight football with a strong defensive
System of play, and such offensive strategy as_ his
nimble wits could adapt to the material at hand.
His success is attested by score keepers’ records.
Now that the one year rule is no longer a great
handicap and some embryo stars of triple threat
magnitude have appeared, Coach DeHart may vary
his system. In that case the 1925 Generals might
become a “Wonder Team.” In any event they will
Prove worthy wearers of blue.

The 1925 schedule, republished from the January
ALUMNI Macazine, is as follows:

Sept. 26—U. of Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh.
met 3
Oct.
Oct.

Furman at Lexington.

10—Princeton at Princeton, N. J.
17—Kentucky at Lexington, Ky.
Oct. 24—V. P. I. at Lynchburg, Va.

Oct. 31—W. Va. at Charleston, W. Va.
Nov. /—Virginia at Lexington.

Nov. 14- Maryland at Washington, D. C.
Nov. 21—_N C. State at Lexington.

25. +, . .
Ov. 28—Florida at Jacksonville, Fla.

 

 

 

 

 

CoacuH “Pat” HEARON
Who Comes to W. & L. Next Year

 

 

 

ATHLETICS

The baseball nine completed a most successful
season by defeating the Navy at Annapolis by a
score of 4 to 3. The Generals lost by narrow mar-
gins to Fordham and the University of Maryland
but won from Seton Hall on its northern invasion.

Gus Lindberg, star twirler on the General nine
and captain of the 1925 team, was signed up by
Manager McGraw of the N. Y. Giants before the
close of the season. Gus reported as soon as the
Generals had completed their schedule.

R. H. Thatcher of Wilmington, Del., was elected
manager of baseball for next year and J. N. Garber
of Harrisonburg, Va., was elected manager of track.
Tommy Seehorn, hard hitting third baseman, was
elected captain of next year’s nine.

The strong Harry Lee crew again won the an-
nual boat race from the Albert Sydney crew at

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Finals this year. A large crowd assembled at the
island to witness the race.

Coach “Pat’ Hearon will assume his duties as
head coach in the spring of 1926. Coach DeHart
will direct the fighting Generals on the gridiron
next fall, but will take up his duties as head coach
and director of all athletics at Duke University,
Durham, N. C. on Jan. 1, 1926. Hearon and DeHart
were team-mates at Pitt and were trained under the
famed “Pop” Warner. It is understood that there
will be no change in the system of play when Hea-
ron takes over the reins. More about coach Hearon
in the next issue of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

The Generals made an excellent record in the
field of minor sports last year. Boxing and wres-
tling are fast gaining favor. Coach Brett produced
an unusually strong aggregation to represent Wash-
ington and Lee on the mat and in the ring.

 

PRESENT GOLD WATCH TO COACH DICK
SMITH, 715

Just before the start of the baseball game between
Washington and Lee and _ Birmingham-Southern,
Coach “Dick” Smith was presented with a gold
watch and chain by the members of the 1925 Var-
sity baseball squad in appreciation of his work with
this year’s team in winning the 1925 state baseball
championship. Dr. R. G. Campbell made the pre-
sentation speech on behalf of the members of the
squad,

Players of both teams lined up around home
plate while the speech was being made. In his talk,
Dr. Campbell said that he had a present for the
coach of this year’s baseball team, and that this man
was very instrumental in putting out a team to win
the 1925 state baseball championship. He also added
that Coach “Dick” Smith was a Washington and
Lee product, and that he was the best second baseman
both at the bat and on the field, ever turned out
here. .

Coach Smith with a few chosen remarks thanked
the members of the squad for the gift and the co-
operation that they gave him throughout the season.

 

W. AND L. PITTSBURGH ALUMNI
PREPARING FOR PITT GAME

Active preparations for the opening game between
W. and L. and the U. of Pittsburgh at the New Pitt
stadium on September 26 have already been started
by the Pittsburgh Alumni Chapter.

At a recent meeting held at the Fort Pitt Hotel a
W. and L. alumni banquet was scheduled for Friday
night, September 25, preceding the game and ar-
rangements made for Alumni Headquarters at the
Fort Pitt Hotel. Negotiations are being made with

various railroads for running special trains from _
Lexington and from adjacent cities in West Vir-
ginia, a
The arrangements are under the direction of Dr, 7
J. W. Claudy, 09, Perrysville and Riverview Aves,
Pittsburgh, and N. C. (Chic) Evans, ’16, 533 Wood —
St., Pittsburgh. Alumni planning to attend this —
game may secure reservations or further information —
by writing to either of these officers of the Pitts- —
burgh Chapter.

Aside from being the opening game on the 1925 ©
schedule the Pitt game will celebrate the completion —
of the new Pitt stadium, said to be the finest ever —
constructed. Coach DeHart has let it be known—
and he rarely makes predictions—that the Generals —
are going in to win with every expectation of com- —
ing out with the heavy end of the score. Much —
time has already been spent in training the big blue
team to meet the strong Pitt aggregation and the
Generals’ offensive is being directed where it will
count the most.

 

PITCHING AVERAGES

ROOD. “ii. 4 aehrata 4 0 can a 1 889
We OWA 50s has <9 6 ee 2 l 667
DEY Ak «oes s Chatene: ire 2 2 500
PE. SoC ee eke Pe l 1 500
PERSONS Sains eb oe 0 1 000
Teme... Ws oe as 13 6 681 -

 

AB. R. Pet.

Rechora: Sees. Gf ey eer 72 27. ore
meeartis, FE ei Sa 48 17 358
Benen. DES Sate Ue a 6 2 333
mewracn, 1.2080 A tie, 58 16 .276
Reece’, Vist. Se. Ak 70 19 .271
enema, 38. a 6s a Fae. See oe 15 4 257
ey: CO La ee. ak bes 70 18 257
SUN Oo ee eb dears 64 63 16 254
eer 8s oe Somes ees 46 11 239
ere. D. -.. sus ce tena ne ee 56 13 232
rennet ae TES Or es oe 8 2 225
TO AN ga a sh CaS oY ke 10 2 .200
WIS SAR Sco, voachee recess 64 11 172
eee SE,” . gs Bee kak «6s, 0 19 3 158
NOE, <n g's c-4 bine PRE eRe teks 21 3 143
PMN, Bs 5 occ tees he eas 9 1 11
mente. 85.9 5. eevee ven ners £3 2 0 000
meeekasty 0. 5 ¢ Pema aR oe bam 1 0 000
Daasett, Sb. ysl she sores 1 0 .000
man. Horn: 44 s2e5 ees vss Sa 1 0 000

Potal ores 7 640 165 258

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Brooklyn University Club Honors W. & L.

A unique tribute was recently paid Washington
and Lee by the Brooklyn, N. Y. University Club at
its annual meeting on April 30th. It is the custom
of the Brooklyn Club to honor one great university
at each of its annual meetings. Yale, Cornell, and
a number of eastern colleges had been previously

honored.

The Club decided to invite a southern university
as its guest at their meeting this year, and Washing-
ton and Lee was selected. President Henry Louis
Smith was invited to deliver the principal address
and Hon. John W. Davis was asked to deliver an
address as representative of the W. and L. alumni.
All of the Washington and Lee alumni in the Man-
hattan district were invited to the dinner.

Dr. Smith delivered a_ brilliant address upon
“Some Lessons from the Life of Lee.” In the ab-
sence of Mr. Davis, Judge Charles J. McDermott,
trustee of W. and L., paid a glowing tribute to the
student-body and administration of the University
and Hon. John M. Glenn, *79, reviewed his days as
a student at the University. Over one hundred
guests were present at the dinner, thirty of whom
were alumni of Washington and Lee.

Through the courtesy of the Brooklyn Club a
short organization meeting of the Washington and
Lee alumni was held in the banquet hall immediately
after the dinner. Verbon E. Kemp, general alumni
secretary, presided and outlined the program of the
Alumni, Incorporated with special reference to the
publication of the Alumni Directory and the ALUMNI
Macazinr. He also stressed the importance of lo-
cal alumni organizations. William A. Hyman, W.
L. McCorkle, John M. Glenn, J. K. Graves, and sev-
eral other alumni responded with suggestions and
pledges of support. A motion made by H. R. Haw-
thorne and passed by the meeting called for the ap-
pointment of a committee composed of John P. East,
chairman, Walter McCorkle, W. D. Conrad, Stuart
Chevalier and D, R. Snively to arrange for the or-
ganization of a permanent Manhattan Alumni As-
sociation. This committee decided to start organi-
zation immediately but to dispense with further
meetings until early fall.

Both the University and the Alumni, Incorporated
are indebted to the Brooklyn University Club, and
to its President, Harrison F. Persons for the cour-
tesy shown and to D. R. Snively, ’23, who was largely
responsible for the success of the Washington and
Lee gathering,

. The following alumni were present at this meet-
ing: R. W. Alley, Dr. G. H. Barber, W. R. Bur-
ton, FE. W. Bibb. Stuart Chevalier, W. D. Conrad,

 

D. R. SnIvEty, ’23

 

 

J. W. Drye, Jr., H. W. Dew, Dr. W. Dold, J. P.
East, Edw. S. Frost, J. M. Glenn, W. A. Hyman,
Mr. Hawthorne, B. A. Judd, Armond Lopez, Dr.
Bolling Lee, C. W. Lyle, W. McCorkle, Mr. Mc-
Nitt, Mark R. Miles, D. R. Snively, J. W. Steer, E.
G. Vinson.

THE ALUMNI OFFICE AND VISITORS

A glad and welcome hand always awaits visiting
alumni and their friends at the alumni office. on the
third floor of Newcomb Hall. Occasionally alumni
stop off at Lexington for a day or two in passing.
They call on a few old friends in the town and visit
interesting spots on the Campus—but fail to call at
Newcomb Hall. ‘The alumni office is at the service
of every visiting alumnus. ‘That is one of its func-
tions.

WASHINGTON AND LEE STUDENTS PASS
BAR EXAMINATION

Six Washington and Lee law students out of nine
who took the state bar examinations at Roanoke in
June successfully passed the examination. Only
two were degree men, both of whom passed. Those
successful were W. H. Brown, Jr., Manassas; M.
F. Bauger, Staunton; E. A. Cadmus, Portsmouth;
R. R. Dixon, Ronceverte, W. Va.; W. W. Donnally,
Charleston, W. Va., and B. G. Watkins, Lynchburg.
About 120 out of 190 who took the examination
passed.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ROANOKE ALUMNI MEETING

The Roanoke, Virginia Alumni Association held
an interesting dinner in the Roanoke Chamber of
Commerce rooms on May 11. Dean Moreland of
the Law School and Alumni Secretary Verbon E.
Kemp were the guests at the gathering.

One attractive feature of the dinner was the pres-
ence of a number of high school graduates as the
guests of the Roanoke Association. It is the plan of
the alumni there to interest all of the likely pro-
spective W. and L,. students in that way.

Mr. Horace M. Fox, ’01, presided at the meeting.
Dean Moreland gave an interesting account of the
progress of the Law School with especial reference
to the new entrance requirements. The alumni sec-
retary outlined the program of the Alumni, Incor-
porated. Sample copies of the May issue of the
ALUMNI MAGAZINE were distributed to the mem-
bers present.

The enthusiastic and enjoyable occasion was
brought to a close with remarks from a number of
the members present, including C. S. McNulty, ’02,
Rev. H. S. Coffey, 12, T. F. Figgat, ’81, and the
chairman, Horace Fox.

The meeting was attended by the following
alumni: Robert B. Adams, George W. Chaney, Lu-
cian H. Cocke, G. A. Wingfield, Martin P. Burkes,
Jr., Paul C. Buford, H. S. Moore, J. Shirley Riley,
Robert M. Curtis, T. G. Figgat, F. C. James, T. X.
Parsons, Randolph Henry, Harry J. Hannah, G. H.
Penn, Walter R. Staples, R. Brown Hilton, James J.
Izard, W. D. Richardson, B. G. Garrett, Harvey B.
Apperson, L. J. Boxley, Ben Meeker, Reison Penn,
Pat Dillard, H. M. Moomaw, D. H. Moomaw, E. C.
Dickerson, Bill Gibbons, Joe Engleby, Jr., A. T.
Loyd, E. W. Poindexter, Walter Scott, C. A. Wood-
rum, C. S. McNulty, J. W. Poindexter, R. G. Whit-
tle, Sam Sherertz, William S. Engleby, H. B. Greg-
ory, H. J. Hagan, Prof. W. H. Moreland, Verbon
E. Kemp, Alumni Secretary, and six high school
boys.

 

The result of the election of officers among the
student body for next year is as follows:

President of Student Body........... “Tex” Tilson
I a. ale eas T. L. Seehorn
Secretary-Treasurer ............. Earle A. Cadmus
Editor of Ring-tum Phi.......... E. W. McCorkle
Business Manager of Ring-tum Phi....T. B. Bryant
CE Re a ee ee C. B. Knight
Business Manager of Calyx......... J. F. Fentress
SF Pe, EE ee Ed Felsenthal
President of Finals............. “Count” Edgerton
aecer.Of Fancy Dress.........<.,. H. Ed. Rietze

THE LOUISIANA ALUMNI ASSOCIATION— _
FOR EXAMPLE 4

By F. P. Hamirton, President

Mr. Kemp has asked me
to write a short article for
the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
dealing with our success
as an association. It re-
mains to be seen just
how successful we may
be, but we are making
progress.

In years gone by W.
and IL. men in Louisiana
have shown considerable
interest in the Alumni As-
sociation, but more re- F. P. HamILton
cently this interest has
fallen into a state of what Grover Cleveland called
“innocuous desuetude.”

There are about 160 alumni in Louisiana, sixty-
two of whom are in New Orleans and twenty-nine
in Shreveport; New Orleans being in the extreme
southeast corner of the state, and Shreveport in the
extreme northwest.

At our last annual meeting on January 19 we had
only sixteen alumni present, but we had a very en-
joyable meeting and a good dinner. The program
of the meeting was along the line suggested by Dr.
Smith, which has been described in the March issue
of the Atumnrt Macazinr. Each alumnus present
at the meeting, who had not already subscribed, paid
for a year’s subscription to the ALUMNI MAGAZINE,
and since this time several out-of-town alumni have
sent in subscriptions which we have sent on to Mr.
Kemp.

We decided to make our list of alumni in Louis-
lana accurate and to do this we collected all avail-
able lists and data and sent out a mimeographed let-
ter, as a personal letter, to each address. Some of
these letters were returned unclaimed, and a very
few were answered.

A short while later we sent out a second letter
and asked for a reply. While we received a num-
ber of replies, the percentage was far too small, so
we sent a third letter which brought a few more re-
sponses. In this way we have been able to get a
fairly accurate list of the Louisiana Alumni.

We make it a rule to send copies of all letters to
Mr. Verbon E. Kemp, and we send him copies of
all newspaper clippings concerning W. and L,. and
the alumni.

There is no such thing as being elected to mem-

 

 

(Continued on page 41)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

Misuse of “Swing” Stopped

The ever vigilant alumni of New Orleans, Louis-
‘ana have set out to stop the long-standing misuse of
the Washington and Lee “Swing.” From present
‘ndications it seems that a well defined understand-
ing has been r ached with Tulane University, whose
absorption of the “Swing” under the title of the
“Tylane Swing” has irked the Washington and Lee
men throughout Louisiana for some time.

Thought crystallized into action when William B.
Wisdom, ’21, heard the familiar strains over the
radio under the announced title of the “Tulane
Swing” from a New Orleans broadcasting station.
An excellent letter which is quoted herewith was
written to the local papers immediately in protest.
Mr. Wisdom’s letter was answered by a Tulane
alumnus who claimed that the “Swing” was an origi-
nal “Tulane” product, being an adaptation from an
old Tulane Alma Mater song, antedating the publi-
cation of the “Swing” by several years.

F. P. Hamilton, president of the Louisiana Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni Association, called upon
Thornton W. Allen, ’10, author and holder of the
“Swing” copyright and the alumni office at Lexing-
ton for the evidence of facts, which was available
in abundance. ‘The matter was again presented
through the New Orleans papers, which brought
forth an open acknowledgment from the President
of Tulane, from the Tulane Alumni Association
and from the student newspaper, the Hullabaloo,
that the “Swing’’ was, and had been, recognized as
the Washington and Lee Swing.

The controversy brought about a campaign on
the part of Tulane for securing an original and na-
tive song. Through the infringement of copyright
proceedings instituted by Mr. Allen cessation of mis-
use by broadcasting stations, record reproducing
companies, etc., is assured. The publicity given to
the alumni complaint also serves notice upon other
colleges using the “Swing” without proper acknowl-
edgement.

Mr. Wisdom’s original protest was voiced as fol-
lows:

“Render Unto Caesar

“After remaining quiescent for nearly five years
to the blatant strains of a student band I now crave
the indulgence of your news column as well as your
editorial aid in rendering honor where honor is due
and setting aright, once and for all, a matter that
mas long rancoured in my heart.

To begin at the beginning, I must take you to
= little town of Lexington, Virginia, where stands
Washington and Lee University, one of the oldest
Mstitutions in the South.

This University—founded in 1749 as Liberty

 

Wm. B. Wispom, ’21

 

 

Hall Academy, endowed by Washington in 17/90
when it took his name, and presided over by our
own beloved Robert E. Lee after the Civil War un-
til his death when his illustrious name was coupled
with that of Washington—has many hallowed mem-
ories and cherished traditions. One of the most
prized possessions of this University, already tinged
with tradition, is only sixteen years old. ‘That is
the Washington and Lee Swing.

“This great college song is different from many
other university songs in that it is inherently an
original product. Where other universities have
adapted their own words to the airs of older songs
the Swing struck a new note in college anthems,
both the words and the air being written by students
then in college.

“Written in 1909 expressly as a football song by
Thornton W. Allen, M. W. Sheafe and C. A. Rob-
bins (now Tod Robbins the novelist) who were at
the time only undergraduates, the Swing has since
swept the country as the greatest football song ever
written.

“Allen and Sheafe wrote the music and Robbins
wrote the words. ‘The student body was enthusias-
tic in its reception—so much so that they now re-
gard the Swing as a sacred trust, and the singing of
it has become almost a religious rite. It has long
been traditional for the students to stand with bared

 

12 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

heads whenever the Swing is heard, and it is the
song invoked when the team is in sore straits as well
as when it is on the top of the score.

“So much for retrospect.

“About five or six years ago a student who had
spent four years at Washington and Lee came down
to Tulane to study law. His name was Gus Fritchie
and his home was Slidell, Louisiana. College spirit
at ‘Tulane was at a very low ebb at the time and
Fritchie, who had become manager of the football
team, felt that pep was sorely lacking. Among other
things ‘Tulane needed a real football song and Frit-
chie bethought himself of the Washington and Lee
Swing.

“Tt is my impression that he received permission
from the authorities at Washington and Lee to use
it, but on this point I am not sure. Suffice it to say
that the song was an instantaneous success and its
popularity in New Orleans today attests to its wide
appeal.

“So far so good. ‘Tulane is welcome to the song.
We of Washington and Lee are glad Tulane has
found a good football song—but the song is NOT
the Tulane Swing.

“Fifty schools and colleges have written and re-
ceived permission to use the Washington and Lee
Swing and forty-nine of these schools and colleges
call it the Washington and Lee Swing, through cour-
tesy, if not for the sake of identity. When Sewanee
—that fighting little University—wants pep, she calls
for the Washington and Lee Swing—sings her own
words to it—and puts it across too—but she calls
for the Washington and Lee Swing.

The same thing is true in Pennsylvania and
wherever the song is sung (with the notable excep-
tion of Tulane) it is known as the Washington and
Lee Swing. But even this situation, while not very
pleasant to a loyal alumnus of Washington and Lee
was not intolerable, for it was still a purely local
condition and it did afford one the pleasure of hear-
ing the old song repeatedly.

“With the advent of WSMB into the radio broad-
casting field, however, the local territorial aspect
vanished. Imagine, if you can, how you would feel,
were you living in New York, to hear the announcer
of KDKA of Pittsburgh, or some other Northern
station, say: |

“We will now have a little song that the Northern
boys have played around here for five or six years.
It is a song that is dedicated to the boys of the
Northland and made famous by them. We will now
hear Paul Whiteman and his famous Palais Royal
Orchestra play Way up North in Northland’

“T say, assuming that you are a Southerner living

in the North and listening in on that Northern sta- —
tion, what would your feelings be if after just such —
an introduction by the announcer you heard the or- —
chestra break into Dixie? |

“Well then, you can imagine what mine were re-
cently when Announcer Randall said: |

“We will now have the pleasure of listening to 4
Tulane University’s great football song, the Tulane
Swing. ‘This song is dedicated to Tulane University, —
T-U-L-A-N-E, that’s the way you spell it, and
is played at all their football games and dances. We
want the people all over the Northland and up the
Mississippi Valley to hear this famous Tulane
Swing!’ a

“If you have any imagination at all, just reflect —
upon how helpless I felt, boiling with indignation
and righteous wrath, with a pair of earphones
clapped to my ears, and absolutely powerless to do
anything but send WSMB a wire telling them how
much I was enjoying their program.

“Vale has its Boola Boola, Cornell its Far Above
Cayuga’s Waters, Princeton its Old Nassau—and
Washington and Lee its Swing.

“That song is ours and in the name of justice and
any sense of fairness I can invoke I object to the
situation of Tulane University aided and abetted by
WSMB, the greatest radio station in the South, op-
erating against the tradition of that secluded South-
ern University nestled in the mountains, two hundred
miles from any broadcasting station and powerless
to reply—yet having its sacred hymn and heritage
stolen out of its very mouth.

“And I appeal to this newspaper for a fair hear-
ing in its columns, my only regret being that few if
any are the people who ever find the ‘Letters from
Our Readers’ columns of any newspaper.

“T am sending a copy of this diatribe to Tulane
University and to WSMB. I hope that one of these
waves which I am_ broadcasting is productive of
some result.

A Washington and Lee Alumnus.”

 

News of the death of George Hepburn, B.L., ’22,
and of Judge A. Hunter Boyd, B.L., 68, has been
received as the ALUMNI MAGAZINE goes to press.
George Hepburn died at his home in Hinton, W. Va.,
July 17, from a fractured skull following a fall from
a ladder in his garage. He had returned to his
home from a camping trip and was climbing into the
attic of the garage to secure some fishing tackle when
the fatal accident occurred. Judge Boyd died at his
home in Cumberland, Md., following a heart attack
on August 2. He had been in feeble health for some
time.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

ALUMNI DIRECTORY DELAYED—TEN
THOUSAND BIOGRAPHIES RECORDED

The last issue of the ALUMNI MaGazINE an-
nounced that the Alumni Directory was ready for
delivery. Circular notices were sent to all alumni
stating that delivery would be made on June Ist.
Several hundred prepaid subscriptions were received
in response.

Shortly after these notices were mailed the alumni
office was informed by the printers of the Directory
that trouble in their plant would delay delivery un-
til September 15th. Other printers were urged to
take over the contract if they could promise deliv-
ery. This could not be done at that late date, and
the postponement of delivery had to be accepted.

The completion of the book by September 15th
is now assured. Copies will be mailed to subscrib-
ers immediately upon receipt from the printers.
Others wishing copies of the Directory should send
in their subscriptions at once to insure reservation.
Unless additional reservations are received before
the Directory is delivered, only one thousand copies
will be printed. This means that there will be only
one copy for every five alumni.

Ten thousand biographical records of Washing-
ton and Lee alumni are contained in the Directory,
dating back to 1749. <A perusal of the achievements
of the University’s earlier graduates clearly indi-
cates the wide range of important services rendered
by her sons in the making of the Nation. The
names and records of famous soldiers, statesmen,
legislators, judges, explorers, missionaries, and min-
isters are found enrolled in this record book.

The biographies and present addresses of the five
thousand living alumni are listed by classes and in-
dexed alphabetically and geographically. Wearers
of the monogram since 1869 are listed separately.
Members of the honorary societies, Phi Beta Kappa,
Delta Sigma Tho, Omicron Delta Kappa, are cata-
logued by date of initiation. Former officers of the
Y. M. C. A., the Alumni Association and the Liter-
ary Societies are tabulated chronologically. All
scholarship winners are listed under their separate
heads. All former editors and managers of campus
publications are recorded.

In addition important prefaces have been con-
tributed by Dr. George H. Denny, President Henry
Louis Smith and Mr. Paul M. Penick. World War
History has been recorded by Sergeant Forrest
Fletcher and Captain J. C. Harper. The whole
work has been attractively bound and illustrated.
It has been truly called “a vignette history of Wash-
ington and Lee.”

The book is offered to alumni at the actual cost
of printing, $3.50 per copy prepaid. Checks or

THE HONOR SYSTEM ATTAINS
INCREASED FAME

Under the heading “No Need Here for Locks or
Watchers” an entire column in the New York
Times of May 27 was devoted to a description of
the Honor System in operation at Washington and
Lee. The material was taken from a bulletin upon
the Honor System issued by President Henry Louis
Smith.

At practically the same time J. C. Morrison, presi-
dent of the student body, delivered an address upon
the W. and L. Honor System before the Southern
Confederation of College Students held under the
auspices of the University of Florida at Gainesville,
Fla. Morrison’s address was followed by the adop-
tion of the Honor System by the student body of
the University of Florida after the Washington and
Lee model.

The Orlando, Florida “Morning Sentinel” in com-
menting upon the convention said: ‘‘Probably the
most outstanding address, and certainly the one
which created the greatest interest was the one
given by President Morrison of the student body of
Washington and Lee on the honor system at his col-
lege. Mr. Morrison spoke on the Honor System in
such an interesting manner that it was the unanimous
decision that the next convention be held at Wash-
ington and Lee University so that the delegates
might see the Honor System as it is functioning
there.”

 

 

 

J. C. Morrison
President of 1924-25 Student Body

 

 

money orders for that amount payable to the Alumni,
Incorporated, should be sent to the Alumni Secre-
tary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va., if reservation is
desired.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

Minutes or June 8, 1925, Meerinc 10:30 A. M.

Meeting called to order by President, Judge E.
C. Caffrey, Verbon E. Kemp, Secretary.

Minutes of the last meeting were read and ap-
proved.

Judge Caffrey delivered a short commendation of
the Senior Class of 1925 with especial reference to
their endowment subscription record.

Motion was made and carried that a committee
of three be appointed to receive names of alumni
for recommendation to the University Board of
Trustees for their consideration in filling vacancies
in their body. Stuart Moore, John Graham and E.
P. Davis were appointed.

Nominations were declared in order for the elec-
tion of resident alumni members on the Athletic
Council to succeed C. S. Glasgow and J. T. Mc-
Crum. C. §S. Glasgow and E. L. Graham were
unanimously elected. Nominations were declared in
order for the election of non-resident alumni mem-
bers on the Athletic Council to succeed F. W. Mc-
Wane and Larry Wilson. F. W. McWane and E.
D. Cameron were elected.

Nominations were declared in order for the elec-
tion of members to the Board of Trustees of the
Alumni, Inc., to succeed J. R. Caskie and Wade H.
Ellis. E. P. Davis and Dr. William Allan were
elected.

E. L. Graham, Treasurer, reported a balance on
hand of $2.51 to the account of the Alumni, Inc.,
and a balance of $514.07 to the account of the
ALUMNI MacazIneé. Both the Alumni Inc., and
the ALuMNI MacazINE were reported free from
debt or possible deficit. The treasurer also reported
$807.00 received from alumni and disbursed by the
Davis-Alumni Club covering the cost of the alumni
activity in Mr. Davis’ behalf during the 1924 Presi-
dential Campaign.

C. S. Glasgow made a brief report of the work
of the Athletic Council.

Dr. William M. Brown was appointed chairman
of a special committee to wait upon President Henry
Louis Smith and Hon. John W. Davis with an in-
vitation to have them address the meeting. Dr.
Smith and Mr. Davis were greeted by hearty ap-
plause and a standing salute upon their appearance
a few minutes later.

Mr. Davis emphasized the importance of alumni
activity to the University and appealed for the de-
velopment of a more effective and closely knit class
organization. Dr. Smith gave a brief résumé of
University progress and stressed the crying need of
the University for an increased income with which
to meet her growing demands and opportunities.

    
   

The Alumni Secretary gave a brief summary of!
the year’s work, stressing the Davis-Alumni actiy-
ity and the publication of the ALUMNI MaGaziIng
and the Alumni Directory. He suggested that q_
committee be appointed to draw up a new constitu.
tion; that the Alumni Reunion date be changed —
from Commencement to the day of the annual big
home football game in the fall and that the class re-
union years be changed from the present five year —
plan to a charted plan calling for the reunion of the
four consecutive classes in attendance at one period —
every five years. The Secretary also outlined a plan
for financing a proposed student-alumni building,

Motion was made and carried that a committee
be appointed to draw up changes in the Constitution —
of the Alumni, Inc. Dr. William M. Brown, chair-—
man, John L,. Campbell and E. P. Davis were ap-
pointed. : 4

Motion was made and carried that Alumni Re- |
union day be changed to the fall of the year, and —
that the new class reunion plan be adapted as out- —
lined by the Secretary. _—

Motion was made and carried that the plan for —
financing a student-alumni building be deferred for —
the action of the Board of Trustees. 4

Greenlee D. Letcher reported that he had raised —
$360.00 from his classmates for the purpose of —
placing a tablet in memory of W. M. Morrison on —
the walls of the chapel. He proposed that funds in —
hand in addition to the amount needed for the pur- —
chase of the tablet be used for having a portrait of
Mr. Morrison painted. ‘

Upon motion Mr. Letcher was given’a rising vote —
of thanks for his activity in the matter of this me- —
morial. His report was ordered to be made a part
of the minutes. 4

Upon motion the Alumni Secretary was given a —
rising vote of thanks in appreciation of his work —
during the year.

A meeting of the Board of Trustees immediately
following adjournment was called by President Caf-
frey.

The meeting was adjourned.

 

THE END OF THE YEAR
(Continued from page 6)

Thomas Carson Penn, ’23, Roanoke, Virginia.

A. L. Tyree, ’24, Bluefield, West Virginia.

J. Charles Jones, ’25, Martinsville, Virginia.
Harry E. Snyder, ’18, Keedysville, Maryland.

S. H. Ballard, Jr., ’21, Charleston, West Virginia.
Herbert J. Taylor, ’93, Staunton, Virginia.

T. H. Wissler, 19, Mt. Jackson, Virginia.

R. S. Walker, ’18, Mt. Jackson, Virginia.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Familiar Faces Absent from the Law Faculty Next Year

The law school, long famous for its great list of
distinguished graduates, will suffer a distinct loss
by the absence of two able members of its faculty
next year, H. A. Holt and Lewis Tyree. “Rocky”
will enter the practice of law upon his own account
at Fayetteville, W. Va. and Mr. Tyree goes to Co-
lumbia University for a year of graduate study in
Jurisprudence.

“Rocky” Holt followed his long line of distin-
guished services as a member of the student body
by accepting an assistant-professorship in the law
school after his graduation in 1922. That he has
served with unusual ability is attested to by the es-
teem of Dean Moreland and the high regard of his
students. “Rocky” married Miss Isabel Wood of
Charlottesville, Va., during the spring of 1924.
30th have been popular in the social life of Lexing-
ton during their residence here.

 

 

H. A. Hort, 21

Lewis Tyree will not be permanently lost to
Washington and Lee, as he plans to resume his
work in Tucker Hall upon completion of one year’s
resident study at Columbia. Incidentally he will be
associated with Judge E. C. Caffrey, able president
of the Alumni, Incorporated, in teaching law at the
Newark, N. J. Law School during a part of his
time. “Lew,” hailing from Virginia originally and
a graduate of the University of Virginia, received
his LL.B. at W. and L. in 1915. He afterward
Practiced law at Richmond, Va., and saw armed
ervice during the World War. Since entering the

 

Pror. Lewis Tyres, 15

 

 

law faculty in 1919 he has acquired a recognized
reputation for his knowledge of law and his ability
to teach it—an opinion shared by students and fac-
ulty alike. He married Miss Winifred West of
Lexington in 1921 and has a three year old prospect
for entrance at W. and L.,—Lewis, Jr.

 

FACTS AND FIGURES

STATEMENT OF THE ALUMNI, INC.
Received by Alumni, Inc.

Subscription to Magazine ......... $1,218.50
Subscription to Directory ......... 1,051.00
Advertisements in Magazine ....... 916.72
pu et Be A ere 1,008.50
MisGetiatGous * iss’. . ccitdecectusecuu 587.98

Expended by Alumni, Inc.

Publishing Magazine ........cceee 2,561.02
Publishing’ Divectory. .. .6sss2 Vicsss 461.07
Miscellaneous Office Printing ...... 223.02
Office Expenses—Salaries ......... 796.00
Sales. Purch. 600d 0s he ae 151.85
Miscellaneous Expenses ........... 15.90

$4,208.86

Balance:-om hand June’ ist.........:eeeess $ 573.84
Received—Davis Alumni Fund ......... $807.50
Expended—Davis Alumni Fund ........ 807.50

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WITH THE FACULTY

Dr. D. B. Easter, head of the Department of
Modern Languages and assistant Dean, is spending
the summer in Europe.

Dr. J. L. Howe, Dean of the School of Applied
Science, was in Richmond the latter part of May
attending a meeting of the Virginia Academy of
Science, of which he is president. |

Professor F. A. Schufeldt has been engaged as a
member of the department of Romance languages
at William and Mary College, Williamsburg, Va.

Dr. W. D. Hoyt officially represented Washing-
ton and Lee at the dedication of the new laboratory
building of the Marine Biological Laboratory at
Woods Hole, Mass., July 3.

Dr. W. M. Brown, ’14, is teaching at the Uni-
versity of Virginia Summer School and is making
his home in Charlottesville during the summer.

Dr. W. G. Bean, of the History Department, is
teaching at the University of Alabama during its
summer session.

Dr. Franklin L. Riley, head of the Department
of History, has been granted a leave of absence for
one year. He will teach at the University of South-
ern California during the next year. Dr. W. G.
Bean will act as head of the History Department
during Dr. Riley’s absence.

Dr. John J. George, B.A., W. and L., has been
appointed assistant professor in the History Depart-
ment for one year, succeeding Professor H. H.
Sims.

Miss Blanche McCrum, librarian, has _ been
granted a leave of absence for one year. Miss Helen
A. Rockwell has been appointed librarian for the
term of one year.

Assistant Professor Ogburn of the Chemistry De-
partment has been granted a leave of absence for
one year.

Professor H. Gray Funkhouser has been contin-
ued as assistant professor of Mathematics for a
term of two years.

Professor Thomas C. Billings has been appointed
full professor in the law school for one year to take
the place of Professor Lewis Tyree, who will be ab-
sent on leave for one year.

 

DEBATING AND ORATORY POPULAR

Student interest in debating and oratory is. still
strong. Under the direction of Professor G. S.
Fulbright the debating team completed a successful
season. C. W. Lowry, Jr., junior student, won the
thirty-fifth annual contest of the Virginia Intercol-
legiate Oratorical Association.

FROM GERMANY—F. A. SCRATCHLEY, ’77

Bad Naubeim,
June 23, 1925.

Gentlemen:

I thank you for this latent interest in me, as well

as for the Bulletins of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity sent to Author’s Club, 2 Whitehall Court S. W.
1, London. It gives me pleasure to read of “the
Recent Development” and to know that the Alumni
Directory is “out.” I suppose you've sent a copy to
the British Museum where I can see it when in
London. Your “University paranorama” is very
comprehensive and shows up in hideous contrast the
new buildings, so horribly out of place “along side”
of those simple Greek Temples, which the “Fathers

of the University” scattered over your Virginia

towns, emulating T. Jefferson. It is pleasant to
have your reminders of the University and your
valley town in this lonely German village, where life
has few complexes and one can construe irregular
German verbs, take the cure and enjoy nothing more
exciting than cross word puzzles in German or
French.
Faithfully yours,
Francis A. SCRATCHLEY.

 

FROM A NON-ALUMNUS

New York Camp No. 985
Sons of Confederate Veterans
New York City
June 24, 1925.

Mr. Vernon FE. Kemp, Secretary,

Dear Sir:

I am sending you check for $13.00 for Lee after
Appomattox, Recollections and Letters, Alumni Di-
rectory and Service Record, and ALuMNrI MaGa-
ZINE. I think that covers it.

In reply to yours of May 23rd, as to the use of
pamphlets of Lee the Educator, gave them to many
of my Southern friends in New York as well as to
several of Confederate veterans; also sent some to
my father who is now 87 and active. He attends
most of the reunions, but missed it this year on ac-
count of distance. He lives at Cheriton,-Va., as do
three brothers and four sisters of mine. My young-
est son, Jesse T., went to the University of Virginia;
my oldest son, Gordon B., went to V. P. I; my
wife has a nephew, Charles T. James, of Frankton,
Va., at W. and L., this being his second year. So
you see we are not much of a Yankee.

With best regards,

Cordially yours,
Betvin T. WILSON.

x

 

he
“i
4
4

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Who's Who on the Faculty

Ropert H. TucKER
Professor of Economics and Business Administration

(Editor’s Note.—This is the first of a series of Faculty
‘ntroductions. One page in each succeeding issue of the
“Alumni Magazine” will be devoted to the career of one
member of the present faculty.)

The name of Robert H. Tucker has been promi-
nently identified with many of the progressive
movements undertaken by the State of Virginia dur-
ing the past seven years. As chairman of the State
Industrial Commission, member of the State Com-
mittee on Simplification and Economy and as_ the
present chairman of the Committee on Taxation of
the State Chamber of Commerce, he has rendered
distinctive services to that State and reflected much
credit to Washington and Lee.

Professor Tucker came to Washington and Lee
‘1 the fall of 1915 after completing graduate work
‘1 economics and teaching at the University of Wis-
consin where he was awarded an honorary fellow-
ship in Economics. He graduated at William and
Mary in 1893 and received his M.A. degree from
there in 1897, being elected to Phi Beta Kappa and
receiving numerous prizes and scholarships during
his undergraduate term. He served as associate pro-
fessor of Economics at Washington and Lee until
1919 where he was elected to his present position of
full professor of Economics and Business Adminis-
tration.

From the beginning Professor Tucker’s study in
the field of Economics and Business Administration
has been on the practical and scientific side. It was
not surprising then that his services were in de-
mand during the World War. He was made man-
ager of the Employment and Welfare Department of
the American Ship Building Company at Brunswick,
Ga., in April, 1919, upon leave of absence from the
University. His signal success in reorganizing that
company’s employment department and building up
an organization of 2,200 men gained for him a wide
reputation as an organizer, administrator and sur-
veyor of large business affairs. He was immediately
made chairman of the Virginia Industrial Commis-
sion whose task was to put the Workmen’s Compen-
sation Act into operation. In 1922 he was made a
member of the Virginia Commission on Simplifica-
Hon and Economy of State and local Government.
"he Report of that Commission which was drafted
By Mr. Tucker has been recently described by a
Richmond newspaper as “The most influential re-
Port published by any State Commission of Virginia
mM recent years. Of his present work as chairman
of the State Committee on Taxation of the State

 

Ropert H. TuCKER
Professor of Economics and Business Administration

 

Chamber of Commerce much has been said in the
State press.

A prominent alumnus recently said, ‘Professor
Tucker is one of Washington and Lee’s greatest as-
sets. His ability and public reputation not only re-
flects glory to Washington and Lee but enables him
to teach more effectively.” It is an opinion shared
by the students. Some of their college work is
drudgery, but they enjoy Professor Tucker's classes.
“He knows what he is talking about and he makes it
interesting,” is a common statement from his stu-
dents. All of which goes back to his outside activ-
ity in present day practical affairs, and his scientific
When asked why he gave so much
time and energy to those outside demands which
meant so little profit to himself, Professor Tucker
replied, “To keep from getting into a rut.”

knowledge.

An example of his ability may be found in Pro-
fessor ‘Tucker’s early teaching experience. After
completing his work at William and Mary he was
appointed instructor in English and German at the
State A. and M. College of Oklahoma. He remained
there nine years, serving successively as associate
Professor and Professor of German and English,

 

(Continued on page. 19)

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Present and Most Pressing Problem of Washington and Lee

A Message from Her President to Her Widely-Scat-
tered Alumni and to Her Loyal Friends
Everywhere.

In her history, historic associations, chartered lib-
erties, and great age, Washington and Lee ranks
with Yale, Harvard, Princeton, and Columbia, hav-
ing been founded in 1749, chosen and endowed by
George Washington, and chartered as an all-Ameri-
can, independent, interstate institution by the legis-
lature of Virginia in 1782.

As George Washington adopted the earlier insti-
tution, so his successor, Robert E. Lee, transformed
and modernized it between 1865 and his lamented
death five years later. Its present standing, reputa-
tion, and function, and opportunity place the insti-
tution in a unique and unprecedented position, with
an open door for interstate service and leadership
never equaled in her history.

This exceptional and increasing popularity with
all classes in all sections as a place not only for in-
tellectual training, but for social and moral culture
of the Lee type, floods the institution with applica-
tions for matriculation from every section of the
United States. Since the actual cost of giving a
first-class college training is never more than half
met by college fees, the ability of an institution of
this type to matriculate and train students is meas-
ured by her income, her equipment, and the faculty
she can financially maintain. It is agreed by all edu-
cational authorities that to give first-class under-
graduate training will cost from $500 to $700 per
annum for every student in attendance, thus neces-
sitating, where no tax revenues are available, a mini-
mum of invested endowment equal to $5,000 per
student, to supplement tuition fees.

Having never been furnished with a third of this
working capital, Washington and Lee is compelled
to limit her new students for the session of 1925-
26 to 300, and is already refusing every day highly
desirable applicants for admission from every sec-
tion of the United States, especially from the South
whose leading families earnestly desire that their
representatives shall be trained in Lee idealism and
moral character.

The work of the institution, its usefulness, its
leadership, and its growth are thus seriously re-
strained and diminished by this lack of working
capital. She needs at once to meet her wonderful
opportunities from five to ten millions of additional
endowment and at least one million for new build-
ings and equipment.

The Quickest Way to Set Her Energies Free for
the Moulding of Our Future American
Civilization.

The recent campaign for additional endowment
has been exceptionally successful and the friends of
the University are everywhere joining the list of
those who are making small annual contributions to-

ward the upkeep of the University.

The quickest way, however, to meet her pressing
needs and set her energies free for her great work

is for every alumnus, every friend of the institu- —

tion, and every one who desires to promote General
Lee’s lifework, to make a bequest in his will to
Washington and Lee. If those alumni who are suc-
cessful business men will add such a codicil and will
then notify the University that they have joined this
league of honor, letting the size of the bequest de-
pend entirely upon their financial circumstances and
the convenience of the donor, the resources of the
University will soon be so increased as to enable it
to meet more adequately its marvelous opportunity
for service. ,

Let every alumnus who reads these lines sit down
and think the matter over for himself. ‘Then, if he
can do so, let him add a line or two to his will, and
notify the President of the University that he has
thus joined the honored list of those who will be
forever partners of General Lee in his great work
for Southern and Christian civilization. It is the
fact we wish to know and record. You need not
mention the amount. The Honor List of these per-
petual partners of General Lee is at present less than
a score. Let’s make it a hundred, and watch General
Lee’s institution grow.

FORD DERBY ENDS IN COURT

Students owning Fords were recently given an op
portunity to show their speed. J. G. Kincheloe, 719,
salesman for the Balfour Jewelry Co. arranged for
a Ford Derby on a six mile course down the Staun-
ton Road. Seven entrants drove their (t)rusty
steeds over the bumps and around the curves, only
to be hailed into court the next day and receive a
fine of $13.61 for speeding.

THE ALUMNI DIRECTORY

Letters are often received at the alumni office say-
ing “I have just heard about a new Alumni Direct-
ory. Please send particulars.” Others upon visit-
ing the alumni office and seeing some of the proof
say “It’s going to be a big thing—lI believe that ev-
ery W. and L. man will want a copy.”

 

, shel 26 7 aa -
a ee ee LT eee ae G

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

Lee Memorial School of Journalism Established

The institution of courses in the Lee Memorial
School of Journalism under Roscoe B. Ellard,
employed professor of Journalism, next Sep-
tember will be of particular significance. It will
mark the successful completion of the first stage of
the School of Journalism campaign and will be a
lasting tribute to President Henry Louis Smith who
d the memorial and whose ardent labors have

newly

conceive
brought it to this stage of fruition.

Of deeper significance is the tribute to General
Robert E. Lee. The “new” school is a revival of
the first school of Journalism in America conceived
by General Let and established by him at Washing-
ton College in 1869, but discontinued eight years
after his death because of insufficient funds. It is
the first of the four professional schools established
by General Lee to bear his name. Initial funds for
‘ts re-establishment have been contributed by  far-
sighted Southern newspaper publishers and _ their

friends. Alumni were not solicited. The seven

hundred donors who have already contributed gave.

as a tribute to General Lee.

Arrangements are being made to locate the School
of Journalism in the old Phi Kappa Sigma House,
or McLaughlin House as it is sometimes known, at
the corner of Lee and Washington Streets. A fund
for its initial equipment has been contributed by a
prominent U. D. C. leader of Greensboro, N. C.
Professor Ellard has been employed and_ students
are registering for courses in the new department.

Professor Roscoe B. Ellard comes to Washing-
ton and Lee from Beloit College, Wisconsin, where
he has been head of the department of Journalism
for three years. He is an honor graduate of the
School of Journalism and the College of © Liberal
Arts of the University of Missouri, receiving the
degrees of B.J. and B.A. Since graduation he has
had much practical experience in reporting, copy-
reading and feature writing on Chicago, Milwau-
kee and Missouri newspapers. Before going to Be-
loit in 1920 he was on the city staff of the Chicago
Daily News.

The duties of the professor of Journalism will
also include the direction of all Washington and Lee
publicity. Mr. Ellard is well qualified for this task,
having been publicity director for Beloit during his
term there. Alumni who have deplored the lack of
publicity given Washington and Lee activities in the
daily press may be assured that adequate material
Will be furnished in the future.

It is felt that the new department will grow into
# Strong and influential branch of the University.
The Southern Newspaper Publishers Association
Will continue to push their drive for funds under the

 

Pror. Roscozk B. ELlLaArp

 

 

direction of Dr. John S. Cohen, editor of the Af-
lanta Journal, according to the resolution passed at
their July convention. Their committee reported
that over $82,000 had been subscribed up to that
time. Mr. Ellard and the authorities of the Uni-
versity will actively co-operate with the Southern
Publishers committee in their efforts to raise addi-
tional funds.

WHO’S WHO ON THE FACULTY
(Continued from page 17)

 

Dean of the Science and Literature Course (at the
age of 25), and Vice-President of the College.

Professor Tucker spent his early life in Bruns-
wick County, Va., but was born in Lunenburg
County, Va., and was married on June 15, 1918, to
Miss Evelyn Page Edmunds of Halifax County,
Va. He has studied at the University of Chicago
and at Brunswick, Germany, and is the author of
numerous articles on economics and kindred sub-
jects in various scientific magazines. He is a mem-
ber of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa,
Omicron Delta Kappa, The Royal Economic Society
of London, and the American Academy of Political
Science.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Editorial

This, the fifth issue of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE,
marks the close of its first year of publication. Its
reception by the alumni has been most cordial and
often enthusiastic. Its net paid circulation has
passed the nine hundred mark.

The MacazINeE was instituted as a news medium
between: the University and her alumni, and among
the alumni themselves. Its creed is Loyalty, its pol-
icy Progress, its appeal Constructive Co-operation.
We believe that a better understanding, a wider in-
terest and a greater service has been achieved.

Therefore, the ALUMNI MaAGazINeE will enter its
second year with those same ends in view, striving
ever for improvement and growth in every depart-
ment. Each graduate and former student of Wash-
ington and Lee is urged to send in his subscription
and aid in this movement.

 

An effort was made to provide returning alumni
and their families with several new entertainment
features at Finals this year. The effort was not
wholly successful, but the response of those who
came was pleasing. Particular comment has _ been
made upon the increased number of older alumni
returning and upon the number of men who came
back to the campus with their wives and families.
Consequently, there was a noticeable lack of carousat
and uproar so often attributed to those who return
for a renewal of youth. From the many letters re-
ceived at the Alumni Office from those who were
our guests during Finals, it certainly seems as if “a
good time was had by all.”

 

Our Task

A sheet published by the Campus Journalistic
Fraternity during the past year stated that it was
the task of the ALuMN1 MaGaziINE to develop a new
type of alumnus. It pictured the typical alumnus
as a hell raiser at Finals and a sullen tightwad when
solicited for the endowment fund.

We do not need a new type of alumnus. The
present type is entirely satisfactory. Not one in
twenty of the returning alumni at Finals causes any
disturbance. And those who return represent only
two percent of the alumni body. Thirty-seven hun-
dred subscriptions have been received from alumni
to the endowment fund. Over five hundred alumni
have never been reached by solicitation—an excellent
record for five thousand alumni!

The task of the ALumMNni MAGAZINE is to serve
the overwhelming majority of loyal, enthusiastic
alumni and to stimulate their constructive and pro-
gressive interest. We are not concerned with the

  

fractional minority who prefer to play draw-back on
the gridiron of progress.

 

Of particular significance was a_ short address —
made by Judge Charles J. McDermott before the —
annual meeting of the Brooklyn University Club, —
April thirtieth. Judge McDermott is an alumnus .
of another college, but a member of the Board of —
Trustees of Washington and Lee. He is also the 3
trustee of a large eastern college. |

In his address, Judge McDermott said: “To find —
the highest type of civilization as taught and instilled
into the lives of young men, one must ‘journey to the 4
little village of Lexington in Virginia! There on 3
the campus of Washington and Lee University one’s —
hope for the future of civilization is revived and ©
stimulated.”

 

As this issue of the MAGAZINE goes to press one
of the big factors in its success leaves the service
of the Alumni, Incorporated. For the past year as
assistant secretary and chief clerk in the Alumni
Office, Miss Isla V. Davies has carried on much of
the work connected with the publication of the
ALUMNI MacGazineE and the Alumni Directory and
Service Record, in addition to other duties. Miss
Davies will go to Boston where she plans to enter
Radcliffe College in the fall.

THE NEW PHI KAP HOUSE AND
FRATERNITY ROW

The completion of the new Phi Kappa Sigma house
marks another step toward a Fraternity Row just
outside the Memorial Gate. The entire entrance
and approach of the University is being substantially
improved by the handsome colonial structures be-
ing erected by the fraternities. The lower campus,
once weed-grown and enclosed by a_ shabby fence
and surrounded by ramshackle houses, may soon ri-
val the upper campus in beauty and charm.

 

 

PROFESSIONAL ADVERTISING

The AtLumMNi MaGaziINeE, starting with the Oc-
tober—Football—issue will have two advertising
pages for the insertion of professional cards. It is
an established fact that a Washington and Lee man
would prefer to deal with another Washington and—
Lee man when transacting professional business at
a distance. Cards in the Professional Directory are
placed in conspicuous positions and are read by
alumni the world over. Rates may be had upon ap-
plication to the Alumni Secretary.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

:

 

 

 

 

re ‘

Cee ne,
ORE Se ree eC?
SORE nek

ae * rag

*

ate

~f
Cn
es

“~

~ eM
e

=

bith?
“

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ir. J. S. Grasty, ’04 4. Walter E. Smith, ’ C. W. McNitt, 717
>. S. McNulty, 02 5. D. B. Owen, *13 James L. Templeton, ’88
o. J. Seybert Hansel,’ 17 6. R. H. Martin, ’80 M. I. Dunn, ’23

 

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

William M. Morrison Memorial Completed

Through the efforts of Captain Greenlee D.
Letcher, ’89, over three hundred and fifty dollars
has been raised for the purpose of securing an ap-
propriate tablet to be placed on the walls of the Lee
Chapel in memory of the Reverend William Mc-
Cutchan Morrison, ’89, deceased, the lamented mis-
sionary to Africa and illustrious alumnus.

The funds were contributed by the alumni listed
below who were in college with Dr. Morrison, oth-
ers not being asked to contribute:

F. A. Nelson, Chattanooga, Tennessee.
Greenlee D. Letcher, Lexington, Virginia.
E. M. Starcher, Fairfax, South Dakota.

H. W. Holt, Staunton, Virginia.

J. H. Gorrell, Wake Forest, North Carolina.
J. L. Bumgardner, Beckley, West Virginia.
FE. R. Guinther, San Antonio, Texas.

W. A. MacCorkle, Charleston, West Virginia.
G. Thomas Dunlap, Washington, D. C.
Edwin C. Laird, Richmond, Virginia.
Malcolm G. Bruce, South Boston, Virginia.
E. S. McCord, Seattle, Washington.

C. L. Crow, Gainesville, Florida.

Wade H. Ellis, Washington, D. C.

Paul M. Penick, Lexington, Virginia.

J. S. Coe, Boyce, Virginia.

L. W. Irwin, Williamsburg, Virginia.

E. G. Vaughan, New York City.

J. E. West, Suffolk, Virginia.

E. R. Leyburn, Rome, Georgia.

L. M. Harris, Charleston, South Carolina.
Harry D. Irwin, Minneapolis, Minnesota.

W. LeConte Stevens, Lexington, Virginia.
Robert Glasgow, Lexington, Virginia.

S. P. Figgatt, Roanoke, Virginia.

R. G. Paxton, Buena Vista, Virginia.

W. McC. White, Raleigh, North Carolina.
Thomas J. Kirkpatrick, Alexandria, Virginia.

W. M. Reid, Kansas City, Missouri.

H. St. G. Tucker, Lexington, Virginia.

W. T. Armstrong, Galveston, ‘Texas.

John C. Child, Charleston, West Virginia.

W. M. McNutt, Glasgow, Virginia.

Dallas Flannagan, Montclair, New Jersey.

F. H. S. Morrison, Richmond, Virginia.

William A. Glasgow, Philadelphia, Pennslvania.

It is the plan of the committee to have the follow-
ing inscription engraved on the bronze tablet beneath
an open Bible, a cross and a crown:

 

“William McCutchan Morrison

“Born November 10, 1867, near Lexington, Vir-
ginia. B.A. W. and L. U., 1887. Graduate Pres-
byterian Seminary, 1892. Missionary, Luebo Congo,
Africa, May 7, 1897. Aggressive exposer of the op-
pression and atrocities and a fearless defender of
the Belgian Congo natives and therefore suffered
prosecution but was acquitted and vindicated. Au-
thor of the first grammar and dictionary of the na-
tive dialect and paraphrased the Scriptures therein.
D.D., W. and L. U., 1906. Married Bertha Steb-
bins of Natchez, Mississippi, June 14, 1906, who
died as a missionary with him November 21, 1910,
He died March 14, 1918, and was buried at Luebo.
He carried the Gospel to darkest Africa and in con-
secration, administration, linguistic work, practical
methods and results ranks first in this field. This
tablet is placed by fellow students of about his time
in happy thought of college-day fellowship and in
commemoration of his great character, his holy life-
work, his heroic bravery and his splendid accom-
plishment and to keep alive in name and thought
one of our greatest alumni as an inspiration to com-
ing generations of students.” |

The tablet is to be unveiled at next Commence-
ment. A _ forty-year reunion of Dr. Morrison’s
former classmates is being arranged for that event.

 

 

Phi Kappa Sigma House Nearing Completion

Second house on Fraternity Row will be ready
for occupancy in September.

The prospective early completion of the new Phi
Kappa Sigma Fraternity House marks an important
stage in the development of the addition to the
Campus, across Jefferson Street, which the Univer-
sity has been acquiring during recent years for a
fraternity house center. This entire tract has been
laid out by Horace W. Peaslee, Washington land-
scape architect who has located ten houses and de-
signed harmonious approaches. <As_ several other

fraternities are now actively engaged on plans for
building on these sites, it is certain that within a
few years this approach to the Campus proper will
be beautifully developed.

The Phi Kappa Sigma House occupies one of the
two sites directly facing the Campus, the other be-
ing taken by the newly completed Beta Theta Pi
House. These two buildings are symmetrically
placed South and North of the Memorial Gateway
and are of the same size (sixty-five by thirty-nine
feet). Both are designed in the red-brick-white-

column Colonial style of the old University Build-

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE 23

Prominent Editor Presents Graduates with Stone Mountain Coins

Upon graduation every member of the senior class
this year received a Stone Mountain half dollar from
Dr. John S. Cohen, editor and publisher of the At-

*

lanta (Ga.) “Journal.” Every member of the
Washington and Lee Board of Trustees also received
4 similar gift from Dr. Cohen.

While not an alumnus of Washington and Lee,
Major Cohen, as he is most often known, received
the degree of Doctor of Laws from Washington
and Lee at commencement 1924. Atlanta alumni
now count him as one of the most loyal and enthu-
sjastic members of the Atlanta Alumni Association.
His thoughtful and timely gift to the graduating
class this year was but one of the many generous
services that he has rendered to Washington and
Lee.

Being a military man and a public servant Major
Cohen is a keen admirer of the genius and character
of Robert EK. Lee. His grandfather followed Gen-
eral Lee through the Civil War.
Lee’s position in the history of Washington and Lee
that first attracted his interest.

It was General

Perhaps the victory
of the fighting Generals over the Golden ‘Tornado
of Georgia Tech. in 1919 had something to do with
it too!

supporter of Tech., but he was highly impressed by

He is an ardent football fan and a strong

the masterly playing of the Generals at that time.

Major Cohen is a native of Augusta, Georgia.
ile attended the Military Academy at West Point
for a period and saw active military service in the
Spanish-American War, emerging with the rank of
major. He entered the newspaper profession at an
early age, serving upon the New York “Herald” and
other metropolitan papers before returning to — his
native state to enter the service of the Atlanta Jour-
nal. He was made president of the Journal Pub-
lishing Company in 1917.
old and a grandfather—but is as spry as a freshman
on a ball-room floor.

He is fifty-four years

When it seemed that the campaign of the South-

 

 

Major Joun S. Conen, LL.D.
Editor “The Atlanta Journal”

ern Newspaper Publishers Association would  col-
lapse after the serious accident suffered by Powell
Glass, ’07, chairman of the drive, Major Cohen took
up the reins and directed it to its present success.
He wrote letters, made speeches, and exercised his
powerful influence in the effort to raise the S. N. P.
A. quota of $65,000. When that figure was reached
he took a short breathing spell and has now accepted
the chairmanship of the committee for raising ad-
ditional funds.

3oth the Board of Trustees and the senior class
passed resolutions of appreciation upon receipt of
the Stone Mountain coins.

 

ings. While they resemble each other sufficiently to
altord the balance which their respective positions
demand. enough differences have been made to pre-
serve individuality.

The basement of the Phi Kappa Sigma House
will contain. at present, only the heating plant and
coal bin. storage for kitchen supplies, pressing room
and servants’ toilet, but a large area at one end has
been excavated for possible future development.
On the first floor, the Colonial front door opens into
= large living hall. with fireplace, which is joined by
French doors to the library and dining room at ei-
ther end, while a similar opening connects with a

corridor leading to a door and uncovered brick ter-
race at the rear; the kitchen, butler’s pantry, house-
keeper’s suite, telephone booth and a coat room with
lavatories are likewise provided on this floor. The
second floor contains bed rooms accommodating six-
teen men, a shower room and separate toilet room.
The third floor provides for a large Chapter Room,
robes and records, trunk room, bath and_ sleeping
quarters which normally taking care of eight men
can be readily expanded for Alumni at Commence-
ment and other special occasions. A large sleeping

(Continued on page 27)

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

An Honor Member of Four Classes, 84, 86, 89, °25

George Armstrong Wauchope, A.B., M.A., Ph.D.,
Litt. D., is a Rockbridge boy who claims as his chief
distinction that he is a member of four classes at
W. and L., ’84, ’86, ’89, ’25.

After assisting Dr. Harrison two years in modern
Languages, as a member of the “Scrub faculty” with
Dean Harry Campbell, he wandered as a_ literary
pilgrim over Germany, France, England, and Scot-
land, where he discovered some contemporary an-
cestors. While awaiting a promised “stool” as as-
sistant professor at the University of Missouri, he
served as Greek and Latin master at the Horner
Military School at Oxford, N. &

Then followed an inspiring “prentice” period of
four years at Missouri, a rapidly growing young
giant of the West. On a visit during the celebration
of its seventy-fifth anniversary he was pleased to
find himself remembered there as the author of
“Old Missouri,” the popular Alma Mater song, and
the “History of the Burning of the University.”

Three fruitful years followed at the University
of Iowa, where he enjoyed teaching many grand-
sons of Sherman’s soldiers to admire and revere the
character of Robert E. Lee; a memorable year of
graduate study at Harvard under such great teach-
ers as Norton, Kittredge, Gates, and Wendell; and
best and luckiest of all good fortunes, the winning
of a Wisconsin girl as his wife. By the fall of 1898
his wanderjahre were over, and at the instigation of
Dr. Edward S. Joynes, formerly a member of the
W. and L. faculty under General Lee, Wauchope
accepted the position of head of the English De-
partment of the University of South Carolina, where
he still teaches. It is needless to add that he has
grown with that great school from its small college
days with 250 students to its present position of edu-
cational leadership with 1,254 students, 800 of whom

are in his department. He and Mrs. Wauchope
have reared two promising chips of the old block, —
and have cast their anchors deeply in the social, lit-
erary, educational, and religious life of Columbia
and the Palmetto state. ‘Two years ago while sery-
ing as Exchange Lecturer at the University of Vir-
ginia, he referred to Carolina as his “wife,” Vir-
ginia as his “summer school sweetheart,” but Wash-
ington and Lee as his “mother,”—three non-conflict-
ing academic loyalties.

In addition to Dr. Wauchope’s work as a teacher
he has found time for many public lectures and ad-
dresses; has served on the editorial staffs of “The —
Library of Southern Literature” (17 vols.), The 4
Southern Magazine, The Baltimore Sun, The New —
York Critic, and The Columbia State; has published
editions of Charles Lamb, Spenser, George Eliot,
De Quincey, and Longfellow, and is the author of
“The Writers of South Carolina,” “Henry Timrod,”
“Facts about Shakespeare,” “Ideals of the English-
Speaking Peoples,” “Literary South Caroline,” ete.,

 

and numerous poems such as “From Generation to

Generation,” “Wade Hampton Rides To-day,” “We
Hail Thee, Carolina,” “The Spectre Ship,” ‘“Words-
worthshire,” “The Journey’s End,” “The Brood of
the Eagle,” etc. |

He is a member of Phi Beta Kappa, is a ruling
elder in the Presbyterian church, was awarded the
Poe Centenary Medal by the University of Virginia,
is a member of the Cosmos Club, the Quill Club,
and was the founder of the Columbia Drama Club.
He received in person the honorary degree of Doc-
tor of Letters at commencement last June. He has
visited Europe twice, the Pacific Coast once, and
has lectured for thirteen years at the summer ses-
sions of the University of Virginia and Peabody
College.

 

 

The Largest Book in the World

For exhibition at the Southern Exposition held
at the Grand Central Palace in New York, Mat-
thew Page Andrews, ‘02, prepared the biggest
book in the world, entitled “The Story of the South
in the Building of the Republic.”

The book is six feet, ten inches in length, four
feet, seven inches in width, and twelve inches in
thickness. The pages are turned by electrical de-
vices, recently invented, worked by automatic mo-
tors. Difficulty was experienced in obtaining a copy-
right for the book because it was impossible to pro-
vide the duplicate copies required by the Govern-
ment. Small pamphlets, containing the pages exactly
as they are to appear in the original, were finally

accepted, and the volume will carry the note “Copy-
right by Special Arrangement.”

Although the book weighs more than 500 pounds,
it contains less than 2,000 words of text, the maxi-
mum on any page being 116 and the minimum
71. Each page carries an illustration selected with
keen discrimination as to the subject and the art.
The “printing” is hand-letter work, and the artist
had to crawl over each page as over a_ huge rug,
outlining and completing his words with infinite
patience.

In compliment to the city of New York, where
the Exposition will be held, the volume was inscribed
“Presenting the Biggest Book in the World to the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

A Great W. & L. Junist

Editor’s Note.—So sparse was the information we could

from Judge Rudkin who had been called “your
prominent alumnus on the Pacific Coast” that a
entative of the Alumni Magazine in San Fran-
called on the judge for a personal interview.

obtain
most
repres
cisco

“United States Circuit Court of Appeals—Judge
. H. Rudkin” said the lettering, so we pushed the
door and entered. A moment's delay and we were
being introduced to a man, tall in stature, slow and
easy in manner, deep voiced, with a remarkably in-
telligent face, that bespoke strength of character

 

steady, keen eyes, a high, wide forehead—lips ha-
bitually severe, yet easily relaxed in a pleasant smile.
We were seated. |
“Washington and Lee? Yes, sir! In 1886—"
said Judge Rudkin. “Forty years ago and of all
that class—about thirty of them and I can name ev-
ery one—I’ve seen only one since, Judge Duncan of
He tipped his chair back and settled his
“T remember I was
about the only one in our class from the North. I

Montana.”
immense frame comfortably.
was from Ohio. Professor Graves was a_ teacher
of mine, and Professor Sheffield, and John Ran-
dolph Tucker gave lectures occasionally. Professor
Graves was later at the University of Virginia.
Where are they now? How the years pass! Only
the other day I had a letter asking about a man who
had given my name for reference, and when |
checked up I hadn’t seen him for twenty-five years.

“Sports?” His eyes lit up at the memory. “Yes,
indeed! The men in the boat crews were the popu-
lar heroes. Football and baseball didn’t amount to
much then. More excitement in one of those races
than a dozen football games.

“No—I'm sorry but I can’t say much about Uni-
versity and alumni problems. Conditions have
changed there and I have been so far away and out
of touch with the University for so long that I don't
know anything about those subjects. The ALUMNI
MAGAZINE is the first real connecting link that I have
seen, though I have met a surprising number of Wash-
ington and Lee alumni. Mr. E. T. Coman, whose
article is in that issue you have there is one of the
most recent. We ought to arrange a reunion dinner
lor Pacific Coast graduates, if there are enough
here to make it worth while. Be sure to send my

Se
greetings to all my old classmates as well as the
present students.”

Asked about his favorite recreation, Judge Rud-

 

Jupce Frank H. Rupxrn, ’85

 

 

 

 

 

Biggest City of the World.” ‘The history of the
South from 1607 to 1918 is developed, the main
characters and events of each state and the group
OF states having been described in a remarkably
Clear and concise manner.

kin surveyed his desk and smiled—“Well—it’s just
more work. I started as soon as I graduated and
I’ve been at it ever since.”

Practiced law
at Ellensburg, and Yakima, Washington, from 1887
to 1890; Judge of the Superior Court of the State
of Washington 1900 to 1905; Associate Justice of
the Supreme Court of Washington from 1905 to
1909; Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of the
State of Washington from 1909 to 1911; Judge of
the District Court of the United States for the East-
ern District of Washington, 1911 to 1923; United
States Circuit Judge for the Ninth Circuit from
1923 to the present time.

His official record is as follows:

In 1921

he married Miss Ellen Rose Doty of Montana and

This is a story of steady advancement.

although Judge Rudkin’s offices are in San Fran-
cisco, their home is in Seattle, Washington. They
have one daughter.

Judge Rudkin was much interested in the possi-
bility of an active Pacific Coast organization of the
Alumni, Incorporated, and offered his help toward
that end.

He is the highest type of judge, the highest type
of man—a pattern for the eager undergraduate, a
son of Washington and Lee worthy of her tradi-
tions, an honor to her name,

26 , THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Prodigal’s Return

The reactions to the beauty of the Campus and
the majesty of its storied halls felt by one who re-
turns to the bosom of his Alma Mater after an ab-
sence of fifty-five years was the experience of J. F.
Robertson, 69, of Charlotte, N. C., at commence-
ment this year. He showed that the intervening
years had not dimmed nor progress and growth had
not over-run the happy memories of his college
days.

sut Mr. Robertson, in the role of the prodigal,
did not return as one who had wasted his substance.
Contrarily he has utilized his talents and _ reflected
due credit to his training at Washington College
during that eventful period of °’66-69 under the
Presidency of General Robert E. Lee.

After leaving college Mr. Robertson studied medi-
cine and then studied pharmacy. He decided not to
practice medicine but entered the drug business, in
which he was profitably engaged until 1896 when
he sold out entirely. He is now Vice-President of
the Charlotte National Bank of Charlotte, N. C.

He was accompanied to Lexington by his wife
who enjoyed going with him on his visit to the fa-
miliar scenes of his college days.

 

 

 

J. F. Rosertson, *69

 

"Cell Edie d Oe "69

From Cincinnati Times-Star, April 23, 1925

On Wednesday one of Cincinnati's most distin-
guished and best beloved citizens was eighty-one
years old. And when we employ the words “most
distinguished and best beloved’’ we are not using
them in the perfunctory fashion with which they
are attached to steel engraved portraits of a city’s
dignitaries. Anything that is said of Edward Cols-
ton must be vivid. It must take the light from his
personality.

For fifty-five years Mr. Colston has practiced
law in Cincinnati, coming from his native Virginia,
where he lost an arm as a boy in the Army of
Northern Virginia, C. S. A. In that time Mr. Cols-
ton has had few, but distinguished partners. In
fact, one of his duties as a lawyer has been to keep
the home fires burning while his partners absented
themselves on distinguished public service. For two
years George Hoadly was Governor of Ohio. A
later partner, Judson Harmon, was Attorney-General
under Cleveland and for four years was Governor
of Ohio. Mr. Colston made possible these wander-
ings into the primrose paths of distinction. He re-
mained at home, tending the crops, while his part-
ners secured bouquets, browsing amid remote gar-
dens of political preferment.

With Mr. Colston it has all been a labor of love,
as well as provocative of a good time, professionally
and socially. Perhaps there is no more inspiring
sight to admirers of athletic longevity than to see
Mr. Colston and his partner, Judson Harmon, briskly
carrying their collective 160 years up hill and down
dale over the more than undulating golf course of
the Cincinnati Country Club. And they say that
listening to their discourse is a liberal education for
their caddies. Also, Mr. Colston is President of the
Cincinnati Riding Club, presiding as a former cav-
alryman of the Confederacy over one of the most
prosperous organizations of the kind in the Unitea
States. And there is not a public question in which
he is not interested—Prohibition or the League of
Nations or the new City Charter—and on which he
will not speak vehemently and frankly. He is a man
of a glorious past, a vivid present and an active fu-
ture. And he has the affection of younger men,
who defer not alone to his years, but are highly ap-
preciative of his making their lives and their prob-
lems his own interest. They call him “Colonel.”
It is a half-humorous term of endearment, applied
to one whose spirit has tasted of the waters of
Ponce de Leon.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

Prominent Alumnus Mentioned for Bench

In a recent Washington dispatch Thomas W.
Shelton, B.L., ’93, of Norfolk, was mentioned as
one of the three men for appointment to the vacancy
on the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the fourth
circuit caused by the recent death of Judge Charles
A. Woods, of South Carolina.

Mr. Shelton received his law degree at Washing-
ton and Lee after one year of resident study. He
had previously received his B.A. degree at V. M. I.

Colonel Shelton, as he is affectionately known to
his many friends, has a long record of distinguished
He has risen to an enviable rank in
his profession and has found time to accomplish
much in other fields.

He has been active in the campaign for uniform
procedure in the courts, is chairman of the Commit-
tee on Uniform Judicial procedure and a member
of the Executive Committee of the American Bar
Association. He is known as the “father” of the
Interstate Conference of Judges and is associate
editor of the Central Law Journal of St. Louis. He
has delivered many addresses before various state
bar associations and state legislatures upon the Sim-
plification of Procedure of Courts and is the author
of numerous books and pamphlets upon kindred sub-
jects.

achievement.

In addition Colonel Shelton is president and gen-
eral counsel for the Solidad Oil Corporation of Mex-
ico and director and counsel of the South Caroline
Ware House Corporation. His business duties and
his activity in the American Bar Association de-
mand that much of his time be spent in travel. A
business trip to Mexico, with an address before the
State legislature of ‘Texas en route and an address
before some large gathering of lawyers in some
Southern city upon his return is only one of the de-
mands made upon his time.

However, his allegiance to his two alma maters is
active and strong. He has been on the Board of

 

 

Tos. W. SHELTON, 93

 

 

Visitors of V. M. I. for eight years and was presi-
dent of the Washington and Lee Alumni Association
in Norfolk repeatedly. His office on the 9th floor
of the Bank of Commerce Bldg., is always the cen-
ter of Norfolk alumni activities. His home is at
350 W. Freemason St., Norfolk, Va.

Although Colonel Shelton is a democrat and the
other two possibilities for appointment to the va-
cancy on the U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals are re-
publicans, it is felt by his many friends that he will
receive first consideration. His appointment would
be a proper recognition of outstanding ability and a
reward for great and foresighted public service.

 

 

THE DUTCH INN BUILDS ATTRACTIVE
ADDITION

The beauty and accommodation of the Dutch Inn,
popular Lexington Hostelry, has been increased by
the addition of another dining room and additional
upstairs sleeping quarters on its Jefferson Street
side,

Crowds attending Washington and Lee and V.
M. I. Finals were pleased to find this new provision
for their accommodation. The building is so ar-
ranged that two large dining rooms may be thrown
together for use on such occasions.

PHI KAPPA SIGMA HOUSE
(Continued from page 23)

porch at the rear is included in the plans but will be
omitted temporarily.

Work on the building was started late in March
and in spite of the large amount of rock which had
to be excavated, progress has been unusually good
so that, at this writing, the house is practically
weathered in and there is every reason to expect
that it will be ready for the opening of the session
in September. It is understood that the cost of the
furnished house will be about thirty-two thousand
dollars.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Supreme Court Judge from the Class of ’| |

Charles W. Mason, ’11, has added his name to the
long list of successful lawyers who cite “Daddy”
Burks as their inspiration. Having hitched his
wagon to the star of Judge Burks’ worthy example,
Mason has climbed steadily for the past fourteen
years and has now reached a seat on the Supreme
Bench of Oklahoma.

Starting the practice of law in Nowata, Oklahoma,
he entered politics and was elected to the office of
city attorney. Following the competent discharge of
the duties of that office came election as district at-
torney, and then the war, which left him at the sign-
ing of the armistice an instructor in an officers’ train-
ing camp with the rank of captain. Shortly after
his return to private life he was appointed by the
Governor of Oklahoma to serve the unexpired three
years and six months of a judge’s term on the dis-
trict court bench and the zeal with which Judge Ma-
son set about clearing off a badly congested court
docket was entirely in accordance with the record he
had already established for himself. When he ran
for re-election he carried every precinct in both
counties, despite the fact that one of the counties
had always voted the opposing political ticket.

Before the expiration of his second term a _ va-
cancy occurred in the Supreme Court due to the
death of its chief justice, and to that vacancy the
Governor appointed Judge Mason.

To show the high esteem in which Judge Mason
is held in his own locality, we quote from Harlow’s
Weekly, a publication of Oklahoma City:

ies for he possesses the qualifications that
beget success: initiative, definite aim, energetic work,
executive ability and clear foresight. One does not
rise rapidly in the army unless his character is such
as to instill confidence and exhibit evidence of abil-
ity. One does not clear a congested court docket in

 

Junce C. W. Mason, ‘11

 

 

one year’s time by luck—nor receive an appointment
and then successfully run for the same office after-
wards without having won the confidence of his con-
stituents. Life does not operate that way. But
difficulties do give way before the man of determined
will, the man who has the capacity to look ahead
and the ability to grasp opportunities when they
present themselves. And this is what has carried
Justice Mason through his chosen career and will
carry him higher. * * *”

 

 

“The insistent demands of the Philippine Islands
for independence and the attention drawn to the
islands by the attitude of their leaders has made the
Philippine problem a world one in the opinion of
Henry Parker Willis, now lecturer on banking at
Columbia University and first president of the Phil-
ippine National bank.

“Willis believes that when a government is estab-
lished in the islands it will be better than that of
Mexico or Honduras, but not on a par with that of
Cuba.

“Willis is internationally known as an economist
and banking authority. After studying at Western
Reserve University and Chicago University he went

Former W. & L. Professor an Authority upon the Philippines

abroad and continued special studies in economics,
history, political science and law at Leipzig and
Vienna.

“He has filled chairs in economics and _ political
science at Washington and Lee University and
George Washington University, has served as re-
search expert and consulting economist for the Fed-
eral Reserve Board, on banking and currency com-
missions, special missions for banking institutions,
and as a correspondent and lecturer. He has writ-
ten prolifically on banking and money subjects and
his works are used as texts.

“He was born in Weymouth, Mass., Aug. 14,
1874.”

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Record of High Achievement

The award of a medal from the National Com-
mittee on Prisons and Prison Labor to Major Le-
Roy Hodges, °10, of Richmond, was a recognition
of but one of the many services of a_ far-sighted,
constructive nature which he has rendered to the
public. The Committee awarded four medals this
vear, the one given Major Hodges being in recogni-
tion of his work as chairman of the National Com-
mittee on Allocation of Prison Industries since 1923.

In order to include even the majority of the activi-
ties that have caused the meteoric rise of this alum-
nus in national prominence, it is necessary merely
to list them in the briefest possible manner, as fol-
lows:

He first attended Washington and Lee as a stu-
dent in the School of Commerce from 1906 to 1908
and then attended lectures in the Department of Po-
litical Economy of the University of Chicago for a
vear. He returned to W. and L,. to study law and
left with his LL.B. in 1910. In January of the fol-
lowing year he married Miss Almeria Hill of
Petersburg, Virginia. He was connected with the en-
gineering departments in railroad work during 1905-
06; special agent with the U. S. Immigration Com-
mission 1908-10; commercial geographer for the Tar-
iff Board, 1910-11; commissioner of immigration of
the Southern Commercial Congress, 1911; field sec-
retary of the National Citizens League for Promo-
tion of Sound Banking System, 1912; secretary of
the Winston-Salem (North Carolina) Board of
Trade, 1912-13; representative of Virginia on the
American Commission for investigation in Europe of
co-operative agricultural finance, production, etc.,
1913; representative of Virginia at the International
Urban Exhibition, Lyons, France, 1914; director of
the department of municipal efficiency and adminis-
tration, Bureau of Applied Economics, Washington,
D. C., 1915-16; member and secretary of the Vir-
ginia Commission on Economy and Efficiency, 1916-
I7; special field representative of the U. S. Food
Administration, 1917; director, Petersburg  (Vir-
ginia) Bureau of Governmental Research, 1917-18:
private practice as consulting economist, 1917-18;
Personal aide and secretary to the governor of Vir-
ginia, February 1, 1918-22, rank of colonel; in
charge preparation of Virginia state budget, 1920-22,
1922-24 ; president of the Virginia Prison Board,
April 12, 1920—; Commissioned Major, Ordnance

“partment, Virginia National Guard, September
11, 1920, and assigned as state ordnance officer; Ma-
he Ordnance, O. R. C., U. S. A., September 29,
921 ; Managing Director, Virginia State Chamber
of Commerce. February 1, 1924—; National Treas-
urer, Lower Taxes—Less Legislation League, 1924

 

 

May. L. Honceks, 710

 

 

—; Director, National Committee on Prisons and
Prison Labor, May 23, 1925.

Major Hodges is a member of Pi Kappa Alpha,
Phi Beta Kappa, American Economic Association,
American Political Science Association, Academy of
Political Science, American Academy of Political
and Social Science, and National Municipal League.
He is the author of numerous brochures and pamph-
lets on governmental efficiency and administration,
public finance, budgets, city and county management,
rural credits, prison reform, ete.

STATEMENT OF THE ENDOWMENT FUND
JUNE ist FOR THE YEAR 1924-25

New Subscriptions to Endowment ............ $ 3,325.00
Payments on Endowment Pledges ............ 31,726.20
Payments trom ‘MeCormick | o30755 52.2. sae 90,000.00

New Annual Pledges Made by Alumni
(231 Pledges Totaling Annually).......... 4,550.50
New Subscriptions to Journalism.............. 12,827.25
Payments on Acct. of Journalism Sub......... 12,738.55

Expenses of Endowment Fund

Salaries and Traveling Expenses, Etc........ 4,446.24
Alumni’. Dues ‘aid +... obs h cbabwh sdevws eo. ae 1,008.50
Total Eepeid@edy.s iSO, wae $ 5,454.74

Expenses Journalism
Salaries, Traveling Expenses, Publicity, Etc. $ 7,069.64

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Rayford W. Alley, °10

I met Rayford Alley for the first time at the Da-
vis Notification Ceremonies in Clarksburg, W. Va.,
last August. He was full of enthusiasm for Wash-
ington and Lee and Mr. Davis and radiated good
cheer. Just recently I saw him again at the Brook-
lyn University Club dinner; his enthusiasm unabated
and his good cheer evidenced by his kindly commen-
dation of the Alumni MaGazINE and his interest
in the activities of Washington and Lee.

Mr. Alley has just sailed for a two months’ tour
of Turkey, but before leaving found time to tell me
something about himself and his activities since
graduating at Washington and Lee.

Coming from Shelbyville, Tennessee, and gradu-
ating at the well-known Webb School at Bell Buc-
kle, Tennessee, Mr. Alley entered Washington and
Lee in 1907 and received his B. A. degree in. 1910.
He spent a year in the banking business at Musko-
gee, Oklahoma, and then entered the Law School at
Columbia University, of which the present U. S.
Attorney-General Harlan F. Stone was then Dean.

Mr. Stone was so impressed with the young
Southerner’s ability that he was taken into the firm
of Satterlee, Canfield and Stone upon his gradua-
tion in 1914. Mr. Alley retained his connection
with Dean Stone’s law firm until the United States
entered the World War. Ordered to camp at Spar-
tanburg, South Carolina, he was disqualified for
service because of defective eyesight. Thereupon
he joined the War Trade Board in Washington and
by a succession of promotions became Director of
its Bureau of Imports.

At the close of the war he re-entered the practice
of law in New York City, forming the firm of AlI-
ley and Vorhees, and later his present firm of Alley
and Geer. He is counsel for the Democratic Na-
tional Committee, the Italian Discount and Trust

 

RayrFrorp W. Attey, 710

 

 

Company of New York, and is engaged in general
corporation law practice. He was for several years
chairman of the Honest Ballot Association, Ine.,
and is chairman of the Council of Turkish-Ameri-
can Relations, Inc.

Rayford’s office is at 111 Broadway, New York
City. He makes his home at the Columbia Univer-
sity Club at 4 W. 43rd Street, New York City, and
maintains a country place with his father and
mother at Malverne, Long Island—vVerbon E.
Kemp.

 

MAJOR GENERAL ALLEN ANSWERS
LETTER

Major General R. A. Allen, recently appointed
Chief of all of the Infantry Forces of the United
States, with the rank of Major-General, wrote the
following in response to a letter of congratulation
from President Smith:

“Throughout my military career, whenever it has
been my good fortune to attain any particular de-
gree of success, my thoughts have gone back to my
old University, and I have placed the credit where
it belongs. And so I lay my latest success as a trib-
ute, and the best that I can offer, on the altar of my
Alma Mater. Sincerely,

R. H. Aten.”

 

ALUMNUS IN CHINA TO STUDY
PROBLEMS

Mr. Henry Blair Graybill, Washington and Lee
representative at Canton Christian College who is
Secretary of the China Christian Educational Asso-
ciation of Kwang-tung Province, has recently been
asked by the China Christian Educational Associa-
tion to come to Shanghai for a period of service for
the Association in Shanghai to study problems re-
lating to Middle Schools.

Mr. Graybill has been loaned to the Shanghai As-
sociation by C. C. for the months of March and
April. Ginn and Company are shortly to publish a
civics text written by Mr. Graybill dealing especially
with China.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

A Model Class

A class organization which might well be the
model for future classes leaving Washington and
Lee is that of Law Class 1911 which held its third
reunion this year at Finals. A brief résumé of
their activities since graduation follows:

Permanent organization was effected in June,
1911, with W. D. Rucker as president and Luther
G. Scott as secretary, and about forty members.
The first reunion was held at Commencement, 1915,
when about fifteen members attended. Noble Doak
Smithson was elected president, and O. T. Kaylor
secretary, to serve for the ensuing five years. In
1920 George W. Chaney was elected president and
Noble Doak Smithson took over the duties of sec-
retary. About seventeen members attended this
third reunion.

This year eleven members were present at the
first meeting of the class which: was held in Tucker
Hall. Election of officers resulted in a vote for
Omer T. Kaylor as president and J. Nevin Kilmer
as secretary. A luncheon was held at the Dutch Inn
on June ninth which the members and their wives
attended. The officers of the class were authorized
to arrange a reunion at Commencement, 1930, and
notify all the members in advance.

The publication each year of a class annual is the
most interesting and valuable work the 1911 law
graduates have done. Each member of the class
writes a letter telling of the important events in his
life during the past year and these letters with ad-
dresses are edited and published by the secretary,
the cost of publication being covered by annual dues
amounting to about two dollars per member. In
this way the class of 1911 lawyers is bound into a
close association which enables them to keep alive
college friendships and memories.

ee

 

 

O. T. Kaytor, ’11

 

 

O. T. Kaylor, the newly elected president of the
class, has long been interested in its organization.
He is a prominent lawyer of Hagerstown, Md.,
where the forensic ability which made him famous
as an orator and debater at Washington and Lee,
has been a great factor in his success. He is mar-
ried and has one son, who if he follows the Kaylor
tradition will enter Washington and Lee about 1935.

Wedding Bells

Charles Holt Taylor, ’17, and Miss Fidelia Lev-
€rett were married in Paris, France, on June 4th.
Mr. Taylor taught at Washington and Lee for two
years after graduation. He then entered the gradu-

ate school at Harvard and has been doing additional
graduation work abroad.

Professor and Mrs. William C. Thayer announce
the marriage of their son, Dr. William H. Thayer,
18, and Miss Dorothy Root, of Lynch, Harlan
County, Kentucky, at that place on April 25. Dr.
Thayer 1s One of the physicians in charge of a hos-
pital at Lynch where he is very popular.

D. C. Storey, ’21, of Bay City, Texas, was mar-
ried in Altoona, Pennsylvania, on June 20th. He
and his bride are now at home at 146 Miller Street,
Wheeling, W. Va.

Lewis S. Musgrove, ’22, and Miss Marie Robey
were married at the home of the bride at Buena
Vista, Va., on June 30th. Mr. Musgrove has been
located at Charlotte, N. C. for the past two years.

E. L. Valentine, student in the second year law
class, from New Haven, Conn., and Miss Lucille
Wilson of Lexington were married at Bluefield, W.
Va., early in May.

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“The Appalachian Way”

When the Appalachian Highway Association was
formed at Winchester, Ky., in December of 1924,
the assembled Convention found that the most able
and public spirited man interested in their great
project was Monte J. Goble, ’91, of Cincinnati, Ohio.

Mr. Goble was immediately elected president of
the Association and since then has devoted much of
his time and energy in the effort to complete the
new Lakes to Ocean Highway, or Canada to Florida
Highway as it was sometimes called. The title
“The Appalachian Way” was suggested by Mr. Go-
ble. Much of his time has been taken up in secur-
ing the co-operation of the various states concerned
and in locating the route.

His success in bringing this important highway
through the most beautiful and historically interest-
ing sections of the Southland: Kentucky, ‘Tennes-
see, North and South Carolina and Georgia is shown

 

M. J. Goer, ’91

 

(Porlland

 
  

= (
m\N. Hg

rn
Boston

pravid os?
xy Sa dD

=

  
 
  
 

sbeisann
afon Rou |
Wacksonville

» St Augustine
Ae latha

   
 

PROPOSED

APPALACHIAN
WAY

G “ely
id *
Be ‘leans

SL Petlersh
MP oie exis co

Punta __________THE APPALACHIAN WAY

—mmms (ther linportant Highways

 

 

 

by the accompanying map
route,
most of which has_ been

of the proposed
completed.

Mr. Goble is vice-presi-
dent of the Fifth-Third
National Bank of Cincin-
nati and a member of the
He was the
power behind the “Davis-
Alumni” Club and has
taken an active and con-
structive interest in Uni-
versity affairs and prog-
ress for a number of years.
His work on the Appala-
chian Way is only one of

class of ’91.

his many public services.

As an alumnus Mr. Go-
ble’s record has been one
of constructive interest
and active co-operation.
He has supported the
ALUMNI MaGazInE from
its inception and has al-
ways encouraged in a
material way the activities
of the Alumni, Incorpo-
rated. His first thought
seems to be of Washing-
ton and Lee whenever an
opportunity arises by
which he can aid in her
popularity, growth or ad-
vancement.

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

“Bob” McDougle, ’17, Wins Many Distinctions

A recent letter from J. R. Caskie, 06, to the
ALUMNI MaGazINE_ stated “On reading over the
advance opinion of the United States Supreme Court
I find that a recent W. and L. graduate has ap-
peared in a case in the highest court in the country.

“Robert B. McDougle, of Parkersburg, W. Va.,
who will be remembered as the manager of several
football and other teams appeared in the case of the
B. and O. Railway vs. the City of Parkersburg.
This case was peculiar in several respects. In the
first place it originated in 1894, one year before Bob
McDougle was born. In the second place Bob both
won and lost the case. He had won it on one point
in the Lower Court. ‘The Upper Court reversed
the case without considering the merits, holding that
the Lower Court had no jurisdiction and the case
should have been dismissed on that ground. The
net result is that the City of Parkersburg, which
Bob represents, emerges winner.”

Later the AtumMNrt MaAGazINE received a clipping
from the Parkersburg “Sentinel” which stated “A1-
ready some of the boys are looking about for a Con-
eressional candidate for the 1926 Republican Pri-
mary. The name of one young Parkersburger is al-
ready being mentioned by the wise ones. This em-
bryo-boom is for none other than Robert B. Mc-
Dougle, popular young attorney.”

All of which goes to show that Bob is manifesting
the same leadership and ability that made his stay
at Washington and Lee such an outstanding exam-
ple.

After managing two great and victorious football
teams, 1915 and 1919, and serving fourteen months
overseas during the World War, Bob returned to
his native city to enter the practice of law.

He had received his B.A. and LL.B. from Wash-
ington and Lee and spent five months as a student
at the Inns of Courts, London. For four years he

 

 

 

 

R. B. McDovucie, °17

 

 

served as Assistant Prosecuting attorney of Wood
County, W. Va., and acquired much valuable expe-
rience in the trial of criminal cases from the Justice
of the Peace Court to the Supreme Court of W. Va.
and built up a good civil practice during that time.
Since January 1, 1925, he has been engaged in the
private practice of law at Rooms 15-19, Citizens
National Bank Bldg., Parkersburg, W. Va.

Bob married Miss Marion Harvey of Parkers-
burg in 1921. They have one daughter, Jane, born
April 18, 1924. Bob is the son of Judge Walter E.
McDougle, B.L., ’91.

 

 

From “Jim”

Vaiden, Mississippi,
June 26, 1925.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

[ am enclosing two checks for subscriptions to
the ALumnr Macaztne, and for the Alumni _ Di-
rectory and Service Record. I am very anxious not
to miss out on a copy of this latter, and regret very
much that the notice of its being ready was not for-
warded to me in Tulsa where I have been located
temporarily for the last four months.

 

Somerville, °| 2

I shall be going to Washington sometime in July,
having secured an appointment in the Russian Di-
vision of the Department of Commerce—a position
which I consider rather advantageous, as it puts me
on the ground floor in readiness for developments
whenever official trade relations with Russia are
resumed.

With kindest regards and best wishes, I am

Sincerely yours,
JAMES SOMERVILLE, JR.

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Personals

Mr. George A. Mahan, ’69, and family recently
presented their home city of Hannibal, Mo., with a
magnificent bronze statue of Tom Sawyer and Huc-
kleberry Finn, thus preserving in a material way
Mark Twain’s greatest fiction characters for his na-
tive town. Mr. Mahan had previously purchased
and presented to the city of Hannibal the home and
birthplace of Samuel L. Clemmens (Mark Twain).

John Blackmar who has been a realtor and broker
since he left Washington and Lee in 1871 has re-
tired and is living at his home in Columbus, Georgia.

The S. S. Arabic, sailing from New York in
June, had two W. and L. men as passengers, Rev.
E. W. MacCorkle, ’74, and William L. Lamont, ’17.
Dr. MacCorkle was on his way to the conference of
the World Sunday School Alliance held at Cardiff,
. Wales, and expects to tour the Scandinavian coun-
tries and visit southern Europe while he is on the
other side. Mr. Lamont is spending his summer va-
cation traveling, after his second year as professor
at Rutgers College.

Washington and Lee was creditably represented at
the inauguration of Dr. Walter M. W. Splawn as
President of the University of Texas, on June
eighth, by Judge Nathan A. Stedman, ’75, of Aus-
tin.

Dr. William Elliott Dold, ’76, lists his occupation
as: “Conducting a sanitarium (River Crest) for
nervous and mental diseases; president of the Uni-
versity of Virginia Medical Society in New York
City; surgeon of the Confederate Veteran Camp of
New York; Governing Committeeman Gorgas Me-
morial Institute in New York; Executive Commit-
teeman of Southern Womans’ Educational Alliances ;
president of Society of 1812 in the State of New
York; etc.” .

William M. McElwee, ’79, has accepted the
presidency of the Peoples National Bank of Lexing-
ton, having served that institution for many years as
cashier and vice-president.

Among the alumni attending Finals with their
wives and families were R. H. Martin, 80, John
W. Lee, 05, W. J. Elgin, 01, W. Guy Laughon,
18, Berkeley Cox, ’18, Charles W. McNitt, ’20,
Grady Davidson, ’15, Elwood H. Seal, ’14, and
Dan Owen, 712.

O. S. Hawkins, ’88, is president of the Parkers-
burg, West Virginia, Chamber of Commerce.

Hampton Tucker, ’91, is engaged in the practice
of law at McAlester, Oklahoma.

After having been out of touch with Hervey L.
McDowell, 91, for several years we were pleased
to have an interesting letter from him at Cuba, Ala-
bam, wher’ he is pastor of the Presbyterian Church.

   

Rees Turpin, ’92, represented Washington and
Lee at the celebration of the semi-centennial of
Park College, Parkville, Missouri, on May thirtieth,
Mr. Turpin, in addition to practicing law with Mra
Behrendt, New York Life Building, Kansas City, is
a trustee of the Kansas City Art Institute, and Dj-—
rector and Vice- President of the Kansas City Cham
ber of Commerce. |

Hugh M. Blain, 94, has resigned as professor of f
journalism at Tulane University to devote all his
time to public relations work as Director of the
Louisiana-Mississippi Committee on Public Utility
Information, having charge also of Public Relations ©
of the New Orleans Public Service, Incorporated. —
At the annual meeting of the National Electric Light 4
Association held July 15-19 in San Francisco he ~
spoke on Public Relations. Dr. Blain will spend ©
the summer with his family at Pass Christian, Miss-—
issippi. y
The services of Colonel Thomas E. Merrill, Gen- —
eral Staff, Chief of Staff, Fifth Corps Area Head-_ q
quarters, Fort Hayes, Columbus, Ohio, are greatly
in demand throughout the Corps Area as a speaker,
and. he makes frequent addresses to civic organiza- —
tions. Colonel Merrill is a member of the class of —
1894. 4
William McChesney Yarbrough, 94, is Post Ad- —
jutant of Augusta Military Academy, Fort Defiance, ¥
Virginia, with the rank of Captain. ;

Rev. Benjamin L. Ancell, 95, is a missionary of _
the Episcopal Church in China and founder and ~
principal of the Mahan School, named for the fa- —
mous Admiral Mahan. Dr. Ancell is a member of
the Diocesan Board of Education. His address is
Mahan School, Yangchow, China. ;

Dr. Ruel E. Ebersole, ’96, has been a commis-
sioned officer in the United States Public Health
Service since July, 1902, and seen duty in all parts
of the world. At present he is in charge of United
States Marine Hospital No. 12 at Memphis, Tenn-
essee. In a recent letter Dr. Ebersole says: “Am
sorry that I have not been back for some years but
have been very busy in various parts of the world.
I shall expect to be back before I leave this section.
Fear that I shall not see the U. Va. game in the fall,
but shall try to get back to old Lexington to see if
the grass is still as green and the flowers as pretty
as of old. Should have liked to see Elgin at Finals.
We had some classes together and I still remember
one afternoon when Twiggs of V. M. I. kicked him
in the face in a game down there. I saw a wonder-
ful W. and L. team beat Tulane in 1919 or 1920.
The score would have been larger but we got one or
two bad decisions.”

1S

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

 

PERSONALS
J. Murray Hooker, LL.B., 96, has been appointed

chairman of the Virginia State Democratic Com- THE VIRGINIA GAME, |

mittee.
H. H. Larimore, 96, is General Attorney and In-

terstate Commerce Counsel for the Missouri Pacific
Railroad Company at St. Louis.

Paul M. Penick, B.L., 96, Treasurer of the Uni-
versity, has returned to Lexington after ten weeks’
absence spent in treatment at Johns Hopkins Hos-

pital in Baltimore. He returned with his health
practically restored. Since his return he has ap- Ample Accommodation on a Crowded

Lexington—November 7

A NEW PLACE TO EAT

peared at his office in Newcomb Hall daily, and Day
though not completely recovered has again taken
up the burden of the University’s business affairs.

Samuel D. Stokes, 96, and Echols A. Hansbarger, THE, SUBWAY KITCHEN

‘20, are law partners at Williamson, West Virginia.

Harry M. Wurzbach, ’96, United States Con- Sandwich Shoppe Extraordinary
gressman from ‘Texas, occupies a notable position
in Texan politics. He was the first Republican to Across the Street from the Lexington High School
gain election to Congress in twenty-five years, and Next to “The Corner’é-Down and.in

has now been elected for the third successive term,
each time with a bigger majority than before.
John Randolph Henry, ’97, characterizes his

thriving law practice as “peddling wind and looking Toasted Sandwiches—Waffles, Coffee
after other people’s troubles.” His two sons are 5 :
high school seniors this year. Mr. Henry’s office is Cigars and Candy

in the Terry Building, Roanoke, Virginia.
Edward Wohlwender, ’97, attorney of Columbus,
Georgia, has served fourteen years in the Georgia

legislature. THE SUBWAY KITCHEN, INC.
Rev. R. Waller Blain, ’01, of Ruston, Louisiana, WILMER J. DORSEY, Manager

is field missionary for Red River Presbytery, in

charge of the organization of Sunday Schools and, “Something New under the Sun”

through them, building new churches.
James S. McCluer, ’99, of Parkersburg, West Modern Equipment Good Food

Virginia, is at present City Solicitor, National Coun-

sellor of the local Chamber of Commerce, Counsel SANITARY

for the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad Company, Past

President of the Kiwanis Club and Past Exalted
Ruler of the Elks.

 

 

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Quality Service ‘Reasonable Prices
Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

36

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

WEINBERG’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

COBB'S PRESSING SHOP

Dry Cleaning

PRESSING DYEING

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANZ

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

PERSONALS

time.

George P. Fishburne, ’00, is practicing law in 5
Puget —

Tacoma, Washington, with offices in the

Sound Bank Building.

C. C. Burns, ’01, and Harry Lee Kidd, 08, are —
associated in a law partnership at Lebanon, Virginia.
H. Robinson Keeble, ’02, is a representative of the —
West Publishing Company with headquarters at 509 —
Mr. Keeble —

State Bank Building, Houston, Texas.
writes extensively for magazines.

B. F. Combs, ’03, is practicing law in Prestons- ~

burg, Kentucky.
H. H. Smith, ’03, is practicing law at Hindman,
Kentucky.

Rev. Cary R. Blain, 04, who has been pastor of ©

the First Presbyterian Church at Paducah, Ken-
tucky, for several years, has accepted a call to Pine-
ville, Kentucky.

James R. Caskie, ’06, 09, is practicing law in
Lynchburg and trying to play golf on the side. He
is a welcome visitor in Lexington and at the alumni
office when his duties on the University Board of
Trustees bring him back to the Campus. “Jimmy”
says that he is still enjoying (?) single blessedness.

Harvey Allen, ’07, is Assistant General Freight
Agent for the Missouri, Kansas:’Texas Railroad at
Saint Louis.

Walter N. Doub, ’07, has been in Tacoma, Wash-
ington, since 1910. He is engaged in the automo-
bile finance business as W. N. Doub and Company,
with headquarters in the Rust Building. He was
married in 1916 to Miss Frances Darling, and has
three children.

Who said that the old timers did not care for
dancing? The Senior-Alumni ball found Judge E. C.
Caffrey, ’09, Claude P. Light, 11, LeRoy Hodges,
10, and Dan Owen, ’14, in their element, to say
nothing of the local terpsichoreans, Lucius J. Desha,
Dick Smith and Mercer Graham.

E. Clyde Hoge, 07, is general manager of the
Lathrop-Hoge Gypsum Construction Company, 503
Neave Building, Cincinnati, Ohio, specialists in gyp-
sum fireproofing and gypsum roof decks under Hoge
patents. His two sons, eight and four years old, ex-
pect to attend Washington and Lee.

C. Mercer McCrum, ’07, of Birmingham, Alabama,
is spending a few weeks in Lexington visiting his
brother, J. T. McCrum, ’08, who has been seriously
ill at the Jackson Memorial Hospital. “T” is now
convalescing and his many friends anticipate his com-
plete recovery soon.

L. H. Carlock, ’99, of LaFollettee, Tennessee, —
reached Lexington for Finals, but almost too late,
arriving at noon on Alumni Day and disappearing 3
shortly afterward. We anticipate a longer visit next _

   

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

The New Plan for Class Reunions

According to the plan unanimously adopted at the
annual alumni meeting in June future class reunions
will be held at the annual big home football game
according to the chart published herewith.

The chart reproduced here shows the reunion
groups of all classes from 1925 to 1950. ‘The left
hand column under “Class” is a consecutive tabu-
lation of the classes from 1875 (bottom) to 1950
(top). The horizontal row of figures at top and
bottom indicates the reunion year from 1925-50. To
find your reunion years locate your class numeral
‘n the vertical column at the left and read on the
same line toward the right. Each column _ bearing
your class numeral represents one of your reunion
years, the date of which is indicated at the top of
that vertical column.

The advantages of this plan are obvious. If you
attended the University four consecutive years you
were associated with six other classes—the three
who were ahead of you when you were a freshman
and the three behind you when you were a senior.
Under the new plan, in any cycle of twenty years
you will have met with each of these six classes
from one to four times, but most often with those
classes immediately preceding and following yours.

For example take the classes of 1925 and 1893.
The class of ’25 would meet at the Virginia game
next November with the classes of ’24, ’23, ’22 and
‘21. In the fall of 1929 it would meet with the
classes of ’24, ’°26, ’27 and ’29 and in 1934 with the
classes of ’26, ’24, ’23, etc.

The class of 1893 would meet in 1928 with ’92,
‘91, and ’90; in 1932 with ’94, 95, and ’96 and in
1937 with ’92, ’94, and ’95, etc.

It is hoped that the officers of the various gradu-
ating classes will bestir themselves and begin at
once to work up a goodly attendance at their next re-
union. Class lists can soon be secured from the
alumni office and can be found complete in the new
Alumni Directory. Attractive programs will be ar-

ranged for each class reunion if a sufficient attend-
ance is obtained.

NEWS CLIPPINGS

Thoughtful alumni sometimes send in newspaper
clippings relating to Washington and Lee or her
alumni. ‘This is a valuable service which enables us
to keep in closer contact with our scattered alumni
and aids our publicity department.

 

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

George E. Penn, Jr., ’08, is practicing law in
Kingport, ‘Tennessee.

T. H. Harman, ’09, is engaged in the practice of
law in Pikeville, Kentucky.

Powell Jepson Grosboll, ’07, is superintendent of
the Menard County Schools, Petersburg, Illinois.

Captain Lewis C. Gordon, ’07, has notified us of
his change of address from Fort Humphreys, Vir-
ginia, to Fort DuPont, Delaware.

Horace W. Phillips, ’09, of Suffolk, Virginia, and
Hardeeville, South Carolina was in Lexington for a
short time recently. Friends who saw him here de-
clared that he was the same “Rags” Phillips as of
old. He did not call at the Alumni Office, an over-
sight which should be corrected during his next visit.

Harold H. Leach, ’09, is preaching, organizing
Sunday Schools and holding revival meetings at
Greenville, N. C. and vicinity. He was married Oc-
tober 24, 1917 to Miss Boone Moorman of Green
Bank, W. Va. They have one son about seven years
of age. Mr. Leach served during the war as Y. M.
C. A. secretary at Camp Zachery Taylor, Louisville,
Ky.

T. Russell Cather, a graduate in the law class of
10, is practicing law in Winchester, Virginia, and is
Commonwealth’s Attorney for Frederick County.

Rev. B. L. Wood, 710, of Moorefield, W. Va., and
now pastor of a church at Collierstown, Va., was a
recent caller at the alumni office. Mr. Wood wanted
to be sure that he received his copy of the Alumni
Directory when it was completed.

Thornton W. Allen, ’11, author of the Washington
and Lee Swing asks that any alumni having knowl-
edge of the use of the Washington and Lee Swing
by other colleges or fraternal organizations commu-
nicate their information to him at 437 Fifth Avenue,
New York City. Mr. Allen is taking active steps to-
ward securing the proper acknowledgment of the
Swing as the property of Washington and Lee.

O. H. Breidenbach, ’11, sells bonds in New Or-
leans, Louisiana.

F. P. Guthrie, ’11, is district manager of the Radio
Corporation of America, with headquarters at 1112
Connecticut Avenue, Washington, D. C. He is in
charge of all the firm’s activities in Washington, in-
cluding broadcasting station WRC, city telegraph of-
fice, etc. Mr. Guthrie taught school for five years
after leaving W. and L. and then served in the navy
for two years. He was in charge of the radio serv-
ice of the U. S. Shipping Board from 1919 to 1923
and represented that board at the Radio Conference
in Paris during the summer of 1921.

Harry M. Butler, ’12, deals in investment securi-
ties at New Orleans, Louisiana.

Randolph Pipes, *12, is in the real estate and insur-

  
   
  
  
   
 
  

a

a
=

  
   

ance business in Sarasota, Florida. His three sons
occupy his time outside of office hours. a

J. P. Hobson, Jr., 12, attorney of Pikeville, Ken-
tucky, has two sons who will follow in their father’
footsteps by entering the W. and L. law school a
some future date. _

A. G. Lively, ’12, is a member of the law firm of
Bird and Lively, with a large practice in Lebanon,
Virginia. g

A letter from Russell B. Wine, ’12, calls attention
to an error in the May number of the ALUMNI Mac- |
AZINE in stating that he is in the real estate business, —
Mr. Wine has been practicing law ever since he left
Washington and Lee, one year at Harrisonburg, Vir- :
ginia, and since then at San Antonio. For nine years
he was attorney for a mortgage banking company, —
and since then has been engaged in general practice. —
He has always taken an active part in Republican —
politics.

The class of ’13 is an important factor in the civic 4
affairs of Lynchburg, Virginia, having contributed —
presidents of the three important local clubs. Fred —
W. McWane is president of the Rotary Club, Carter —
Glass, Jr., of the Kiwanis, and Thomas §. Kirkpat- ‘
rick of the Lions. Bob Ramsey, ’12, is business — a
manager of the Chamber of Commerce. ‘4

Philip P. Gibson, 713, has recently been appointalllal
city attorney of Huntington, West Virginia. Re- 4
garding Mr. Gibson the Huntington Adviser, under _
date of June 18, says: “He is prominent among the _
younger attorneys of Huntington, and has estab- —
lished an exiensive and successful practice since en-
tering the legal profession here six years ago. He —
has taken important parts in Democratic organization
affairs, and on numerous occasions gave his services
in campaigns with signal success as a speaker on —
campaign issues. He is regarded among the most
able of the younger attorneys of Huntington.”

Ludo von Meysenbug, °13, was married on April
14, 1925, to Miss Heda Kock and is living in New
Orleans. Dr. von Meysenbug is a specialist in chil-
dren’s diseases and writes for various medical jour-
nals.

Henry N. Barker, °14, announces the birth of
Master Henry Kane Barker on January seventh.
Mr. Barker is practicing law in Johnson City, Tenn-
essee, and is also General Attorney for the Clinch-
field Railroad Company.

M. I. Dunn, Jr., ’23, is assistant division engineer
in charge of maintenance on Richmond division of .
the C. & O. Railway. His office is at the Main
Street Station, C. & O. Railway, Richmond, Va.

Captain John Gallagher, °16, is teaching at Au-
gusta Military Academy.

A. H. Gray, ’16, is practicing law with his brother,
J. T. Gray, Jr., ’11, in Brownsville, Tennessee.

-

td
&
a
.

t
3

,

iN

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

PERSONALS

Summerfield McCartney, °14, is employed by the
National Advertising Bureau of the Review-Chron-
jcle, Spokane, Washington, and writes enthusiasti-
cally of the opportunities for young men in that city.
He is now engaged in writing a series of articles for
“Western Advertising” showing the relation of ad-
vertising to the various western industries.

Rev. J. E. Wayland, ’14, missionary in Tsingki-
angpu, China, expects to receive a furlough this fall
when he and his family will return to Virginia.

R. W. Fowlkes, ’15, having received his M.D.
from the University of Virginia, is a specialist in
skin diseases practicing in Richmond. He and Dr.
J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02, and Dr. T. Dewey Da-
vis, 717, all have offices in the Professional Building.

J. H. McGinnis, *15, lawyer of Beckley, West
Virginia, is State Commander of the American Le-

gion.

Carl Hendricks, ’17, is a traveling salesman with

headquarters at Lebanon, Virginia.

James J. Izard, 17, is in business for himself sell-
ing general insurance in Roanoke, Virginia.

H. L. Lowman, 717, after returning from _ over-
seas service, entered the University of Texas where
he will receive his M.A. degree at the close of the
summer. While completing his education he has
been superintendent of the Manor, Texas High
School. He expects to teach at the Florida State
College for Women, Tallahassee, Fla., next year.

Sterling W. Alderfer, ’18, is purchasing agent for
The India Tire and Rubber Company of Akron,
Ohio. His address is 122 North Portage Path.

J. S. Edmondson, 719, attorney of Memphis, Tenn-
essee, writes that alumni in his locality are “getting
married mostly” and he “would like to hear from
any who were in school with me who are still single.”
His address is 1040 Bank of Commerce Building.

G. G. Terry, ’19, of News Ferry, Va., will be at the
Bellevue Hospital in New York City for the next
two years. After receiving his M.D. he was resi-
dent physician at the ‘Tucker Sanitarium at Rich-
mond, Va. He expects to return to Virginia and
practice his profession after completing his work at
Bellevue.

George F. Mitchell, ’20, is practicing law at 294
Washington Street, Boston, Massachusetts. He
Writes that he would like to get in touch with other
Boston alumni.

Washington and Lee was represented at the inau-
guration of Dr. L. H. Murlin as president of De-
Pauw University on April 24th, by John W. Kern,
20, of Indianapolis, Ind.

Daniel A. Taylor, ’21, is practicing law with of-

fices in the American National Bank Building, New-
port, Kentucky.

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY'S

Special Service to

University Clubs and: Fraternities

 

“McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

Lyons Tailoring Co.

TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

COME IN OR WRITE US

 

 

PERSONALS

“Sammy” Raines, ’20, of baseball and football
fame, is now a full-fledged sawbones. He graduated
at the University of Tennessee Medical School in
June. Sam brightened Finals by his return this year.

Walter E. B. Smith, ’20, has resigned from the
consular service and accepted a position with Daniel
and Boggs, attorneys of Jacksonville, Florida.

James Lucian Allgood, ’21, is president and man-
ager of The Southern Collegian, dealers in college
and fraternity goods, in Birmingham, Alabama.

William A. Gibbons, Jr., ’21, is connected with
Charles Lunsford and Sons, 206 First National Bank
Building, Roanoke, Virginia, the oldest insurance
firm in Roanoke.

Howard K. Gibbons, ’21, is secretary and treas-
urer of Jennings Brothers and Easter, a wholesaie
fruit and produce firm of Roanoke, Virginia.

S. E. Standrod, Jr., ’21, has been living in Knox-
ville, Tennessee, for the past two years and is en-
gaged in selling White trucks and busses. His ad-
dress is No. 2, Aconda Court Apartments and he as-
sures us that the latch string hangs on the outside to
all W. and L,. men who visit Knoxville. On October
2, 1922, Mr. Standrod was married to Miss Rines
Hooper, of Bluefield, West Virginia.

L. W. Morgan, 718, is clerk and master of Chan-
cety Court, Brownsville, Tennessee.

R. H. Young, ’21, spent a few days in Lexington
shortly after commencement. He graduated in en-
gineering at Cornell this year. He plans to return to
his native state of Tennessee to begin the important
business of making a living.

After finishing the last term’s work at Union The-
ological Seminary, Robert M. Bear, ’22, camg to
Lexington and ably assisted in the labors of the
Alumni Office for a month. He is now attending
summer school at Ohio State University, Columbus,

and expects to teach education at Centre College,

Danville, Kentucky, next year.

John W. Bowyer, M.A., ’22, has received the James
A. Rumrill scholarship for graduate work at Har-
vard for the coming year. Since his graduation at
W. and L., Bowyer has held positions as professor
of English in the College of Charleston and Virginia
Polytechnic Institute.

Charles DeSoussure, ’23, is a law abstractor at
West Palm Beach, Florida.

Dewey A. Reynolds, ’22, after leaving W. and L.
was instructor in Chemistry at Greenbrier Military
School, Lewisburg, West Virginia, for a year, and
then accepted a position as Junior Chemist with the
United States Bureau of Mines.
4800 Forbes Street, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Wilfred B. Webb, ’22, divides his time between

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Washington and Lee.

His address is

  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  

teaching at Augusta Military Academy, Fort De.
fiance, Virginia, and operating a commercial apple
orchard of which he is the owner. ‘

Among the alumni in the journalistic field are L,
F. Garcin, ’22, and Matt Wiltshire, ’22. Lynn js
sports editor of the Richmond, Va. Times Dispat h
and Matt is with the Richmond, Va. News Leader, —

Gus Bryan, ’23, formerly of Birmingham, is a
real estate broker with Carr and Carr of West Pal
Beach, Florida. |

Prominent among those attending Finals this ol
were Mr. and Mrs. E. P. Crockett of Wytheville,
Va. It was Eddie’s first visit since directing the
Finals celebrations of 1923. He is now engaged in
the banking business at Wytheville and finds time to
run a farm on the side. Mr. and Mrs. Crockett were
the guests of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity while in —
Lexington and chaperoned the Beta house party. %

Fred L. Davis, ’14, has been with the Peoples Na- —
tional Bank of Abingdon, Va., ever since leaving |
He also takes an interest in~
civic affairs and has held office as city treasurer, |
councilman, ete. 3

George Riggs, ’23, and Frank Harrellson, ’23, are- 3
also with the C. & O. Railway at Richmond, Va.,

Dillon Hartridge, ’23, is practicing law at West
Palm Beach, Florida.

Fred T. Peeples, ’23, is practicing law with J. 7
Watson, ’11, at Tampa, Fla. He and Miss Corinne
de G. Stephens of Washington, D. C., were married —
on May 12th.

Rhodes Whitley, B.A., ’23, of Jonesboro, Ark., —
and now a professor in the English Department of —
Emory University, Atlanta, Ga., is touring Europe 3
during the summer.

Douglass P. Wingo, ’23, is practicing law with 3
Miller and Graham, 1809 American Trust Building,
Birmingham, Alabama. 2

William B. Wisdom, ’23, is in charge of the pub- —
licity department of’the Whitney-Central Bank, New
Orleans, Louisiana. ;

Earl W. Bibb, ’24, is employed in the office of the
Clark Estates, 149 Broadway, New York City. He
lives at 72 Hanson Place, Brooklyn.

Bayard I. Malone, Jr., ’24, was married on Oc- 4
tober 9, 1924, to Miss Florence Bomer Phinizy at her
home in Decatur, Alabama. ‘They are living in
Punta Gorda, Florida, where Mr. Malone has a rap-
idly-growing law practice.

J. Hampton Price, ’24, has been practicing law at
Leaksville, with a branch office at Stoneville, North
Carolina. He was appointed prosecuting attorney
for Leaksville in May of this year.

Ira M. Quillen, ’24, of Lebanon, Virginia, is @
member of the law firm of Quillen and Quillen.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE . 41

THE LOUISIANA ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

(Continued from page 10)

bership in our local association. Each alumnus is
a4 member, and we are trying to arouse

automatically
Ts
There

each one to an active interest in W. and L.
are no dues, but a small sum is necessary to pay for
stationery, mimeographing, postage, etc., and we
asked each alumnus, who felt able, to send us the
sum of one dollar. The response was not
‘t should have been, but we did get $38.00
from thirty-eight members. When they read this,
others will send a dollar. Mr. Kemp very kindly
and generously offered to help us out of the Alumni,
Incorporated fund, but we, of course, declined any
help from the parent body.

large
what

Several out-of-town alumni have paid us personal
visits, which we appreciate. We would like all to
do likewise when in New Orleans.

Several from distance have written that
they would have been present on last January 19
but did not know that there would be a meeting.
They will know next time if the U. S. Mail func-
tions properly, and we have the correct addresses—
and this, regardless of how many dollars do or do

some

not pour into the treasury.

Wake up, fellows, all over the earth! You are
the alumni of the greatest educational institution on
this or any other continent, regardless of size or
wealth.

Send two dollars to Verbon E. Kemp at Lexing-
ton for a year’s subscription to the ALUMNI MaGa-
ZINE, and be in touch with the boys of the seventies,
eighties, nineties, etc.

F. P. HAMILTON.

Old friendships can be renewed through the pages
of the Alumni Directory and the ALUMNI MacazINe.
Fill in the blank enclosed in this copy and mail it
with your check to the Alumni, Inc.. Lexington, Va.

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

(ollege & School

Printers & Stationers

Fine Stationery and Engraving
Office Equipment and Supplies
College Publications

Fraternity Publications

We would appreciate your inquiries which will
receive our prompt and careful attention

 

SURBER-ARUNDAIEOMPANY

PUBLISHERS: PRINTERS STATIONERS
CHARLOTTESVILLE::: VIRGINIA

 

|

 

pe

 

hall,
requirements
but looking
values
with u
tions.

of both good taste and a thrifty

Ss before deciding.

 

ale challenge contradiction in saying that there is no other building material which, taken all in all, will com-
sO many merits of quality and style, economy, strength and beauty in your home as face brick.

aoe ete oe : ° ’ ; °
zoek has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
1€ wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple, and yet combines that strength and beauty which meets the
Bs Pare oe ere
at the building problem on all sides, no other material approaches brick in the structural and artistic
it offers—permanence, comfort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most valuable and practical sugges-

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

MEMBERS AMERICAN FACE BRICK ASSOCIATION

Other materials have their merits and make their appeal,

You should talk the matter over

 

 

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

OBITUARY

Judge Matt M. Neil,*’69, of Memphis, Tennessee,
ex-chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Tennes-
see, died at his home in Trenton, Tennessee, on June
22nd. Of his death the Nashville Tennesseean said:
“The people of Tennessee will mourn Judge Neil’s
death as that of one whose years were crowned with
well-earned honors and whose name and life-long
work hold the memory of sincere accomplishment
in a profession he had held in reverence always and
had never failed to adorn.”

John V. Rathbone, ’72, died at Parkersburg, West
Virginia, during April of this year.

Julius Kruttschnitt, ’73, pioneer railroad man of
the Southwest and since 1913 chairman of the Board
of Directors of the Southern Pacific system, died at
his home in New York City in June. A_ biographi-
cal sketch of Mr. Kruttschnitt may be found in the
May ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

On May 5, 1925, Angus Neal Gordon died at his
home “Huntly Place” in Archer, Florida. Professor
Gordon finished his academic education under his
beloved General Robert E. Lee, receiving his Bache-
lor of Arts at Washington and Lee University in
the class of ’73 and had his Master of Arts con-
ferred some years later. Funeral services were held
in Archer, after which the body was carried to Lex-
ington, Kentucky, for interment.

Word has ‘been received of the recent death of
William A. Bickham, ’84, of Dallas, Texas.

Dr. W. W. Chafin, ’87, prominent physician and
citizen of Pulaski, Virginia, died May 7th at his
home in Pulaski.

Notice has been received of the death in June of
Henry S. Fox, 91, prominent banker and citizen of
Houston, ‘Texas. Mr. Fox had long been one of
the most active and liberal Washington and Lee
alumni in his home city.

Christian Science services were conducted for
Warren W. Goodman, Sunday, April 12, 1925, at
Bozeman, Montana. Mr. Goodman graduated in law
at Washington and Lee in 1893, moving to Mon-
tana shortly after graduation to take up the practice
of law.

Funeral services for Mrs. William Wingo, mother
of Douglas P. Wingo, class of ’24, who died at St.
Mary’s Infirmary, Rochester, Minn., in May, were
held at the Second Presbyterian Church in Birming-
ham, Alabama.

The many friends of Harold Briney, 24, of New
Kensington, Pennsylvania, will regret to learn of
his tragic death on May 7th, resulting from a frac-
tured skull received in an automobile accident.

_ Mr. Brown was a Washington and Lee man, and —

  
  
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
   
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
  

ALUMNUS HAS FINE RECORD OF SERV c

Francis P. Miller, "14, who is now Assistarit E ;
ecutive Secretary of the Student Department of 4
International Y. M. C. A. Committee, is among h
alumni of Washington and Lee who have disti
guished records of achievement and service. |

Francis Miller was born June 5, 1895, in Mia
dlesborough, Kentucky. From 1901 to 1910 }
lived at Rockbridge Baths where his father was th
Presbyterian Minister. From 1910 to 1914, he at.
tended Washington and Lee. He won the Latir
Franklin and the James J. White scholarships, anc
was elected Phi Beta Kappa. He was a member o
the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. In his senior yeat
he was Vice-President of the Y. M. C. A. Hez
served on the Harry Lee crew for two years. |

From 1914 to 1917 Mr. Miller was College See-
retary of the Y. M. C. A. for New England. From
1917 to 1919 he was with the A. E. F. in France.
He entered as a private and was advanced to a first
lieutenancy. ‘* :

Mr. Miller was a Rhodes Scholar from New
York State at Oxford University from 1919 to 1923,
During 1921-22 he was Secretary of International —
Relations of the British Student Movement. ca
1923 Mr. Miller has been Assistant Secretary of
the International Y. M. C. A. Committee. ;

In regard to his work, Mr. Miller says: “I t
the W. and L. Student Christian Association for
giving me a desire to be worthy of the Courageaia
Knights of the Heavenly Kingdom—as they say im
China. May the Association never lose its capaci
to sow similar ideas in the minds of Washington —
and Lee students.”

     
  

—fe
Al. J

LIBRARY RECEIVES SET OF OLD
RING-TUM PHIS

A much appreciated gift has come to the library —
from Mrs. Mary Campbell Moore Brown. It com- —
sists of a file of Ring-tum Phis, collected by her —
husband, Daniel Brown, and covers, with a few
gaps, the entire life of the University’s newspaper. x

one of the most loyal and enthusiastic of its sons,
so that a very special personal interest is connected ;
with the gift. Up to this time, the only complete
set of Ring-tum Phis has been kept in the safe im ~
Newcomb Hall under the registar’s care. The li-
brary has sorely needed a more accessible file, and
regards this gift as one of the notable ones of the
year. Since the file is incomplete the library would
appreciate very much if all available copies of old
Ring-tum Phis were sent to them by anyone who
may have some in their possession.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MORE ABOUT THAT FIRST CURVED BALL
| Roanoke, Va., May 9th, 1925.

The Editor,
Atumni MAGAZINE,
Washmgton and Lee,

Dear Sir: i
I have just read the article on “The First Curve

Ball in College Athletics” by Will McElwee in the
May AxtuMNI MAGAZINE with so much pleasure
that it occurs to me that my recollection of some of
the incidents in the early career of Sykes and_ his
wonderful curve ball may interest some of the old

timers.

When Sykes returned to college in the fall of ’76
with his new style of pitching he was a nine days
wonder to the boys.

In early fall and spring afternoons the campus was
alive with boys batting flies, catching, and playing
“sounders.” In the latter game, Sykes would pitch
all the afternoon, rarely taking his turn at bat. He
pitched so constantly to any and all that fall and the
spring of ’77 that we got on to his slow curve and
could bat him all over the campus. Consequently
he was not chosen as pitcher for the first nine.

The rules at this time required the pitcher to carry
his hand below his waist when delivering the ball.
Of necessity, this delivery had to be either a straight
pitch or an underhand throw. Young Robertson of
Louisville was the pitcher chosen on account of his
being able to throw a very fast ball with this re-
stricted delivery. Ed. Randall of Galveston was
catcher.

In the game with the University of Virginia on
the V. M. I. parade ground in the spring of ’77 with
the score 9 to 6 against us in the sixth inning, Ran-
dall was knocked unconscious by a foul tip on the
nose and did not recover for an hour. As McElwee
says, the catchers at that time caught with bare
hands and without mask or breast pad.

We had no other catcher that could hold Robert-
son’s swift pitching and in order to finish the game
Sykes was called out from the spectators and he

with Howard Barclay to catch him went in without
uniforms.

It was ludicrous in the extreme then to see those
strapping Virginia boys, who had been batting swift
pitching all over the field, either breaking their backs
reaching for Sykes’ slow curves or falling to the
ground to dodge a ball that went two feet outside
the plate. They did not get a ball outside the dia-
mond the rest of the game, most of them being re-
tired on strikes.
te spring and fall of ’77 Sykes pitched to any

le could persuade to catch him. He became a

43

regular nuisance. I have cut classes in the morning
to catch for him. He pitched every day and I be-
lieve he could have pitched all day. Although a boy
of slender physique he seemed never to tire and
never complained of a sore arm. In fact, I know
that he never had one. His delivery was so smooth
that he appeared to make no exertion at all when
pitching.

With this constant practice he worked up the
widest and most wonderful slow out-curve that I
have ever seen and with his perfect control and
change of pace he was able to beat V irginia 12 to 0
in the game McElwee describes played at Charlottes-
ville in ’78.

By the way, McElwee, his catcher, was as smooth
an artist behind the bat as Sykes was as pitcher.
They made a wonderful battery.

Sincerely,
T. Gopwin Ficcat, ’81.

NEW EATING SHOP ESTABLISHED

The Subway Kitchen, Inc., a Lexington Corpora-
tion to which a charter was recently issued by the
State Corporation Commission, has bought the lot
on Lee Avenue adjoining J. W. Zimmerman oppo-
site the Lexington high school and erected a build-
ing for carrying on a sandwich and lunch counter
business.

The new venture will be under the management
of Wilmer J. Dorsey, popular member of the Junior:
Class. It is announced that toasted sandwiches and
waftles will be a specialty. Backers of the new busi-
ness have termed it “the underground sandwich shop
extraordinary.”

Entrance to the building is to be effected by a
stairway from the street just behind the “Corner.”
The building is of concrete and only comes up to
the level of the street—hence the name, “The Sub-
way Kitchen.”

 

Rockbridge County’s Largest Agency Built

 

W. C. FIREBAUGH

INSURANCE ADVISOR

 

by Giving Service

 

Rooms 4 and 5, Rockbridge National Bank Building
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE, MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

<

 

 

Cc. M. LAMBERT, Pres. and Treas. S. K. LAMBERT, Sec’y

Lambert Manufacturing Co.

Contractors for Buildings

All Kinds WAYNESBORO, VA.

Building Material
MILLWORK CONTRACTORS
for the
NEW BETA HOUSE and
GRAHAM DORMITORY

   
   
   
 

The Chas. H. Elliott Co. |

The Largest College Engraving House in the World

Commencement Invitations Class Day Progran
Class Pins and Rings ,

Dance Programs and Invitations, Menus

Leather Dance Cases and Covers
Fraternity and Class Inserts for Annuals 1

Fraternity and Class Stationery
School Catalogs and Illustrations 74

Wedding Invitations,Calling Cards

Seventeenth Street and Lehigh Avenue,
Philadelphia

 

ORDER YOUR COPY NOW!
The Alumni Directory—Sept. 15—$3.50
The Alumni Magazine—one year—$2.00

Check or money order payable to the
Alumni, Inc., should be sent to Drawer 897,
Lexington, Va.

 

 

ROBEY’S BUS LINE

Prompt Service

Buena Vista—Lexington

WE MEET ALL GRAINS

  

ies

Buena Vista Phone No. 3 Lexington Phone No. 62. 3

 

 

G. G. HARRIS
Contractor for Plumbing and Heating

Room 13, Knowles Building
Residence Phone 1008
STAUNTON, VA.

Office Phone 444

Estimates furnished promptly on any size job anywhere.
Plumbing and Heating Contractor for New Chemistry Building

  

ek
a

Box 60 |

 

 

 

