   

* .
¢

Arch ) Llpnan

 

= : rao IN ATO eer SIRE TE
site | NAS aMGTON & Leb UVR
Ww3l7 als | LEXINGTON, VA, 24450

~= THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE _

and SUMMER BULLETIN

, | OF

 

 

Washington and Lee University

ome
a
i.

 

 

chime AUGUST, 1928 Number 3 oo

 

 

 

 

A FACULTY RESIDENCE
Enduring beauty

$2.50 Per Year 7 25c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affor
the various professions who may wish to secure reliab]
at a distance, or of a special professional character.
tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of

rectory. Rates on application.

 

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
A'TORNEY-AT-LAW

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg.,
Atlantic City, N. J.

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, Lawyer

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg.,
Huntington, West Virginia

 

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE
Citrus Eachange Building,
Tampa, Florida

W. H. Jackson, 08 J. W. Dupres, ’21

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
| ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS

Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401 Philadelphia

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND Dick

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
11090 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

ding a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
€ correspondents of the same profession to transact business
Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-
the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

R. E. MOORE
ATTORNEY-A'T-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.,
Blucfield, W. Va.

WE COLLECT IN ANY CITY IN
THE UNITED STATES

K. & T. ADJUSTMENT BUREAU

Reports, CoLLECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS

 

All Business Strictly Confidential

Room 206 Kleeman Building, Summers St.
Charleston, W. Va.

 

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

 

Compliments of the President of the

Alumni, Inc.

K. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

 

 

ALEX M. HITZ

ATTORNEY AT LAw

210 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlanta, Georgia

 

 

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18 and ’22
ATTORNEY-AtT-LAW

DouciaAs, Osear & Dovucras

Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

 

ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

15-19 Citizens National Bank Building,
Parkersburg, W. Va.

 

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713
ArTToRNEY at Law

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E.. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
LAw OFFICES

Commercial National Bank Building,

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

 

 

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’i0

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L,., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

Applications from W. and L,. alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

@ Uncle Dan's 2B
OLD VIRGINIA HICKORY CURED HAMS
Cured by Old Colonial Recipe

Smoked with Hickory Wood, Brown as a Berry, Sweet as a Nut

Shipped All over the World, Direct to Consumer from Smokehouse on the Farm

Every Ham Guaranteed Satisfactory | Write for New Price Schedule
OWEN HAM CO. OD. B. OWEN, ‘12
BOX A : DOYLESVILLE, VA. |

 

 

‘THE AIL_UMNI MAGAZINE
AND SUMMER BULLETIN

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia |
FE. C. Carrrey, President :  Verzon E. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GrauaM, Jr., Treasurer ~ Dora Wrrt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS
PAGE ' PACE
The Year... si “se: 5 # FP. Gassman, 07; J. W. Bagley, 03; J. M..
Death of Judge M. P. Burks, The Burks Memo- eT 37-38
fil 460 cele 6-7 Meee 1 cRoy Hodges, “10..0..........5.... #39
Commencement; Reunited Alumni; Finals ..... 8-10 Minutes, Annual Meeting, Alumni Ass’n, Inc.... 40
Trustees; University and Alumni Actions..... 11-13 Peer |. Coke ‘11; “Tod” Robbins, ‘11...... 42-43
The Next President ........05 52. -.3...... 15 P. Craighill [2; J. G. Herndon, 72....... 44-45
Henry Boley, Friendship Specialist ............ 17 C. E. Jewett, "21; Roy Nichols, ’27; Ted Shultz,
Faculty; Migrations, Changes, Activities....... 18-21 eee. ed. a e. 46-47
Some Educational Problems, President Smith... 22 Humorous Feature—Daniel Henry’s Story..... 48-49
Athletics; Baseball, Track Resume; Grid Pros- Baccalaureate Sermon—Dr. Ainslie .......... ee
pecta 2.1... a ie ee 2 25-2/ Bridge Building, Dedication Address, Tom Glas-
College and Campus; Student Affairs; The Law ok 51
octiool 7003.2. 28-30) Book Reviews, Miss Helen Rockwell, Librarian. 53
Lee; Chapel Addition; Gifts to Museum...... 31-32 C@gemencement Address, Dr. J. H. Latané...... 55
Alumni News; Dr. Dillard, ’77; Politics...... 33-34 Obituary; Personals

Robert Ewing, 68; Newton D. Baker, ’94..... 35-36

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

Special: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON
(Prices on application)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid — 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

 

 

 

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager |_exington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

MonuMENT TO “JocKEy”’ RoBrinson
Tucker Hall in background

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and SUMMER BULLETIN

 

VoL. IV AUGUST, 1928 No. 3

 

| Tus AuumMNiI Macaztneg, Issued Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

 

The Year

Workmen gathered with picks and shovels, care-
fully removed turf, dug up an old road, put down
new sidewalks, replaced the turf, completed the en-
trance from the lower campus through the Memorial
Gateway to the college buildings; under the efficient
direction of Engineer Hale Houston, 92, smoothly
and quickly executed these needed improvements.

High and Preparatory School students from
Texas, Kentucky, Maryland and states en route, con-
vened at Lexington for the third annual meeting of
the Southern Interscholastic Press Association under
the auspices of the Lee Memorial School of Journal-
ism: were advised, banqueted, and rewarded for
worthy publications.

Politics were rife. Student candidates for office
made speeches, cluttered up the streets and campus
with handbills and announcement cards. “Bosses”
sought fraternity allignments. Students chose their
student body officers, dance leaders, publication man-
agers and editors, etc., according to time honored cus-
tom.

A holiday was declared; state delegations were
chosen; the gymnasium converted into a political hall.
Speeches were made to students assembled in mock
Democratic national convention. After a two-day
deadlock and much machination Governor A. E.
Smith of New York was nominated for President;
Senator W. F. George of Georgia for vice-President.

The baseball season closed with a record of nine
wins and eight defeats, with a tie for second place in
the Tri-State Intercollegiate League, with two sting-
ing defeats by the arms and bats of the University of
Virginia nine. ;

Examinations came, took toll for week-end trips,
cut classes, movies, poker and class slumbers; forced
students to buy or borrow text books, to burn the pro-
verbial midnight oil for another purpose. Students
“on the ledge’ haunted professors and the registrar
for grades. °

Parents interested in the graduation ceremonies,
alumni interested in the campus and returning class-
mates, girls interested in syncopation and the male
sex, thronged to Lexington for Commencement; were
satisfied.

Alumni met at the Alumni Building; petitioned the
University Board of Trustees for certain privileges ;

elected officers; decided to change the official alumni
re-union period from Commencement to the annual
Home-Coming football game; appointed a committee
to confer on the Chapel-Auditorium question; ad-
journed to hear Thomas M. Glasgow, ’16, dedicate the
Class Memorial Foot-bridge.

University trustees met; heard recommendations;
appointed committees; increased the alumni scholar-
ship award; elevated two professors to associate
positions; received resignations; confirmed appoint-
ments; heard that President Smith would soon reach
retirement age; appointed a special committee on the
presidency.

Trustees, Faculty, recipients for honorary degrees,
and graduating Seniors, formed in the colonnade,
marched in impressively. robed procession to the
strains of martial music down the path into the Lee
Chapel; heard President Smith announce the winners
of prizes and scholarships; heard Dr. John H. Latané,
of Johns Hopkins, deliver a most instructive address ;
heard the student Valedictorian; saw Dr. Latané, Mr.
Herbert Fitzpatrick, 94, Virginia Governor H. F.
Byrd, and Rev. W. T. Hanzsche, 11, receive honor-
ary degrees; saw successful Seniors receive earned
and coveted diplomas.

Betimes, the Doremus gymnasium was a scene of
colorful gaiety. Young life throbbed; feet shuffled ;
bodies swayed and glib tongues. pattered to the tune-
iul syncopation of Jan Garber’s popular and expen-
sive orchestra. Chaperones, parents and alumni
looked on with interest, amusement or wonder from
the sidelines; occasionally essayed participation. Led
by Judge and Mrs. E. C. Caffrey, ’09, alumni marched
in the alumni figure at the Senior-Alumni Ball. Led
by Robert F. Howe, students marched to form intri-
cate, artistic patterns in the famed Final Ball figure.
Rain prevented the gay and colorful outdoor Final
Ball supper, famed spectacle.

Workmen gathered with picks and shovels; laid
foundations for new roads between the dormitories,
around the Library and Reid Hall; laid new con-
crete walks and curbings under the direction of En-
gineer Houston, newly appointed director of grounds,
walks and roads.

Summer tourists thronged through Lexington, vis-
ited the Lee Chapel.

( /

 

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Burks’ Memorial

There has been a no more beloved and respected
figure associated with the Washington and Lee Law
School than Judge Martin P. Burks, ’70, professor of
law from 1899 to 1915 and Dean of the Law School
from 1903 to 1917. After his deeply lamented death
on May Ist, Wilbur C. Hall, 714, of Leesburg, Va.,
and W. R. L. Taylor, ’11, of Norfolk, Va., spontane-

ously suggested that his former students create a fund |

for the endowment of a professorship in his name.

The University felt it inadvisable to direct a cam-
paign for funds to alumni at this time. ‘The matter
was referred to the Alumni Association. Alumni
trustees and other active members of the Association
were consulted by telegraph. Responses indicated a
unanimous approval. An alumni campaign committee
composed of Judge E. C. Caffrey, ’09, Newark, N.
J., chairman; Hon. John W. Davis, 95, New York
City; Herbert Fitzpatrick, 94, Richmond, Va. >; Wil-
bur C. Hall, ’14, Leesburg, Va.; W. R. L, Taylor, ’11,
Norfolk, Va., and Lewis Tyree, 15, Newark, N. 1,
was appointed.

Under the direction of this committee an appeal for
gifts was directed to about one hundred alumni by
telegraph for an indication of alumni reception. $15,-
000 was pledged in response to this initial effort.

Encouraged, the committee made plans for the com-
pletion of the Fund by November 17th. State Chair-
men under the direction of Herbert Fitzpatrick, ’92,
have been appointed as follows:

Virginia: Jas. R. Caskie, ’06, Lynchburg, Va.

West Virgia: Herbert Fitzpatrick, 92, Richmond,
Va.

District of Columbia, Maryland, and Pennsylvania:
Wm. A. Glasgow, ’87, Philadelphia, Penn.

New Jersey and New England: Judge E. C. Caf-
frey, ‘10, Newark, N. J. :

New York City: John W. Davis, 92, New York
City.

Kentucky: T. Kennedy Helm, ’93, Louisville, Ky.

Olio: L. C. Witten, ’10, Cincinnati, Ohio.

Missouri and Midwest: H. H. Larimore, 799, St.
Louis, Mo.

Illinots, Indiana, Minnesota and Wisconsin: Char-
les Faulkner, ’94, Chicago, Ill. ,

Pacific Coast: James O’Brien, ’08, Los Angeles,
Calif. ,

Texas and Southwest: John 1. Young, ’95, Dallas,
Texas.

Arkansas: D. T. Hieatt, 94, Monticello, Ark.
Louisiana: Sydney L. Herold, ’01, Shreveport, La.

Alabama: Roderick Beddow, ’12, Birmingham, Ala.

Georgia: Walter McElreath, ’92, Atlanta, Ga.
Florida: K. I. McKay, ’04, Tampa, Fla.

 

Tennessee: Judge Robt. L. Peck, 96, Springfield,

North and South Carolina: Roger MHarrison, 99,
Greensboro, N. C. |

The memorial as planned by the committee will pro-
vide for a full professorship of Pleading and Practice,
subjects so ably taught by Judge Burks. ‘This will
mean an additional professor for the Law School, pro-
vide new courses in Common Law Pleading and en-
able the Law School to add elective courses to their
present fixed curriculum. The professorship will be —
known as the Martin P. Burks’ Chair of Pleading and
Practice; will be a living productive memorial in the

# subjects in which Judge Burks was unexcelled xt
Tucker Hall amidst the scene of his most productive

service. :

Because of the practical value of this addition to
the Law School it has attracted the interest of such
distinguished alumni lawyers as Mr. Herbert Fitz-
patrick, ’94, and Hon. John W. Davis, ’95, who real-
ize that with it the Washington and Lee Law School,
already preéminent in the South, will be able to pro-
vide practical instruction unequaled in the country.

Pledges to the Burks’ Fund may be made payable in
four equal annual or semi-annual instalments. The
University has agreed to credit payments to the Burks’
Fund as payments on unpaid Endowment Fund pledges
when so desired. Generous subscriptions have been

received from the following alumni and friends:

Judge E. C. Caffrey, Hackensack, N. J.; Herbert
Fitzpatrick, Richmond, Va.; John W. Davis, New
York City, Ne Ys; bine Bo Sprcal. Staunton, Va.;
Dr. G. Bolling Lee, New York City, N. Y.; Laurence
C. Witten, Cincinnati, Ohio; Rosser J. Coke, Dallas,
Texas; Charles J. Faulkner, Jr., Chicago, Ill.: Stuart
Chevalier, New York City, N. Y.; L. J. Boxley, Roa-
noke, Va.; Henry W. Anderson, Richmond, Va.; John
J. Davis, Louisville, Ky.; James O’Brien, Los Ange-
les, Calif.; Waller C. Hardy, Charleston, West Va
James R. Caskie, Lynchburg, Va.; H. H. Larimore,
St. Louis, Mo.; H. P. McFarlane, Tampa, Pla. G. 0.
Letcher, Lexington, Va.; H. R. Fitzgerald, Danville,
Va.; Edward Colson, Cincinnati, Ohio; Claude P.
Light, Martinsburg, West Va.; Harrison B. Smith,
Charleston, West Va.; W. T. Lovins, Kenova, West
Va.; EK. W. Poindexter, Roanoke, Va.; K. I. McKay,
Tampa, Fla.; Joseph I. Triplett, Jacksonville, Fla. ;
M. E. Cruser, Norfolk, Va.; J. Carlton Hudson, Nor-
folk, Va.; W. L. Newman, Woodstock, Va.

An effort will be made to secure a contingent sub-
scription to this endowment from the Rockefeller
Foundation. Payments received to this fund prior to
July 1, secured a 50% equivalent from that founda-
tion under the terms of their subscription to the Uni-
versity, which expired on that date.

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ‘

Judge Martin P. Burks, °70

Judge Martin P. Burks, ’70, of the Virginia 5Su-
preme Court of Appeals, died on May Ist in a hos-
pital in Richmond, Va., where he had been a patient
since April 24th. Suffering from ill health, Judge
Burks had submitted his resignation from the Vir-
ginia Supreme Court. He underwent treatment at the
St. Elizabeth’s Hospital, came to his home for a rest,
returned to Richmond for an operation. Death re-
sulted from pneumonia, contracted after the opera-
tion. His body was interred at his native city of Bed-
ford. :

Judge Burks attended Washington College when
General Robert E. Lee was president, studied law at
the University of Virginia, practiced at Bedford. He
became professor of Law at Washington and Lee in
1900; Dean of the Law School in 1903, during which
year he also received the honorary LL.D. degree from
Roanoke College; was appointed to supervise the re-
vision of the State Code in 1915; was appointed to the
Virginia Supreme bench in 1917 by Governor Henry
C. Stuart and served with distinction until his death.
He was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa and Phi
Delta Phi fraternities. (1 7220 Ue wecerved the
honorary LL.D. degree from Washington and Lee.

To Law students he was “Daddy” Burks, wise coun-
sellor, steady guide, penetrating teacher of those em-
bryo servants of that stern mistress—the Law. <A
“born” teacher he possessed a remarkable ability for
imparting knowledge and firmly affixing legal prin-
ciples in the minds of his students. ‘This he did by
maxim, witty allusion and penetrating satire. Gradu-
ates in practice soon appreciated the full measure cf
his practical instruction. “Daddy” Burks became
recognized as the outstanding professor of Law in the
South. He wrote “Burks Pleading and Practice,”
which is now a standard text, and he is also author of
“Property Rights of Married Women in Virginia.”

For twenty-two years Judge Burks was reporter of

 

“T)ADDY BURKS

None more beloved....respected....admired

 

the Reports of the Virginia Supreme Court of Ap-
peals. He was one of the Code revisers of 1914 to
1917. On the Supreme Bench of the State he filled
a position once held by his father, Edward C. Burks,
B. A., 41, who was also revisor of the Code in 1884-
87, Martin P. Burks, Jr., graduated in Law in 1905.

Last fall the fourth of the line, Martin P. Burks, IJ,

entered Washington and Lee.

Judge Burks was buried May 2nd at Bedtord. His
memory will linger long in the minds and hearts of his
former students and associates.

 

 

 

EDITORIAL COMMENT ON JUDGE BURKS

The newspapers of Virginia united in editorial
praise and regret upon the retirement and death of
Judge Burks. A few are quoted below:

Richmond Times Dispatch:

A great portion of his active life Judge Burks spent
in the cloistered shades of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, away from the actual practice of the law, but
there is no doubt of his firm grasp of the law’s opera-
tion and his ability to intelligently apply the law in any
given case. More than that, he was possessed of a
keen insight into human nature, a possession which

enabled him, while hueing straight to the legal line, to
breathe into his decisions a quality all their own.

As a jurist Judge Burks made his mark. The im-
press of his work on the appellate court will last as
long as the law books are here to tell their story of
what has been done judicially in Virginia. But it is
not as a jurist that he will be remembered most af-
fectionately. Judge Burks was a great teacher. For
seventeen years he was the soul of the law school of
Washington and Lee University. There he gave force
and direction to the minds of thousands of young
men who enjoyed the privilege of sitting at the feet
of a beloved mentor. There he was a successor, in 2
sense of that greatest of all Virginians, Robert it: Le,

 

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

in the training of the youth of the country for the
manifold problems of high citizenship.

Lynchburg News:

That he was well liked and honored by his associates
on the supreme court bench and respected by those
who practiced law before him and that his retirement
brings to them deep, sincere regret 1s no more than
was expected by those who sat at his feet to learn law
at Lexington. ‘Those youths who knew him and who
knew so well how to size up a professor, and who
called him “Daddy” with affectionate pride, are now
mature men, some of them with honors of their own.
but they will never forget “Daddy” Burks and will
follow him into retirement with that love and honor
they gave him when he was the heart and soul of the
law school they love so well and in the remembrance
of which he looms so large.

A lawyer, a teacher, a jurist of note, he will be re-
membered longest as a teacher. He was among those
who made the law school of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity known throughout the country, he was among
those largely responsible for the high rank attained
by so many of the graduates of that school.

Rockbridge County News:

The life of Judge Burks was to a remarkable degree
singly devoted to the law. He studied law, he prac-
ticed law, he taught law, he wrote law, and as a judge
of Virginia’s highest court, he made law. In all these
specialties in law he was a master, and well he might
be, for with fine, natural endowments and opportuni-
ties in the law school at the University of Virginia
and in his father’s office, he devoted his life, with un-
remitting industry for well on to three score years to

the law. From the time he reached his majority, in:

1872, he was a busy and successful practitioner of law
in the court of Bedford. He left Bedford in 1899 and
came to Lexington to assume the duties of professor
of common and statute law in Washington and Lee
University. Three years later the duties of Dean of
the Law School were added. In 1917 Governor Henry
C. Stuart appointed him to the supreme bench to fill
a vacancy. The following session of the general as-
sembly he was elected to this office. Professor Burks
was never a candidate for any office. He was called
to the supreme bench because it was recognized that
his learning, abilities and character would be found in-
valuable there. He brought to the work of the court
that same conscientious devotion to duty and fine tal-
ents which had distinguished him in the positions he
had hitherto held.

go Og
¢

Make monthly publication of the MAGAZINE pos-
sible; send in your subscription today; rates $2.50
per year, $4.00 for two years. |

 

ONE HUNDRED AND SEVENTEEN GRADU-
ATE AT WASHINGTON AND LEE
COMMENCEMENT

Degrees. Were
awarded Tuesday,
June. Sth, wi Lee.
Chapel to 117 gradu-
ates in various de-
partments of Wash- §
ington and Lee Uni- @&
versity. The chapel |
was filled largely with
strangers —— parents,
relatives and friends
of the graduating
boys. A splendid ad-
dress was delivered
by Dr. John H. Lat-
ané of Johns Hopkins
University on “De- “
mocracy and Impe- Jor Horr, ’29
rialism” dealing with Students said......best campus citizen

 

international relations, |

a subject on which he is largely quoted throughout
the country as an authority. The feature of the oc-
casion which called for the most applause was the de-
livery of the honorary degree of doctor of commer-
cial science to Harry Flood Byrd, Virginia’s gover-
nor.

Besides Governor Byrd, honorary degrees of LIL.
D., were delivered to Dr. John H. Latané and Mr.
Herbert Fitzpatrick, vice-president of the Chesapeake
and Ohio railroad and an alumnus. The degree of
D.D., was conferred upon Rev. William T’. Hanzsche,
of Trenton, N. J., an alumnus, and upon Rev. Graham
Gilmore of Lynchburg, Rev. Cary Randolph Blain
of Kentucky, and Rev. Wm. T. Riviere of Texas.
None of the last three were present.

Coveted honors were awarded by President Henry
Louis Smith to a number of students immediately
after the exercises opened. The Converse prize, fifty
dollars in gold, awarded to the best all-around cam-
pus citizen as chosen by the vote of the student body,
went to Joseph M. Holt of West Virginia. The
Algernon Sydney: Sullivan Medallion awarded by
the Southern society of New York also to the best
all-around man on the campus as selected by the
faculty, was given to Robert Fernald Howe of Ar-
kansas. Those who get prizes in college, Dr. Smith
said as he delivered these honors, usually get them
in after life.

SS mores NS nee
6

MR. AND MRS. LYNWOOD R. HOLMES, ‘00,
of Philadelphia, were recent guests at the home of
Henry Boley, on Jackson Avenue, Lexington.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Reunited Alumni— 1928

Significant among the reunited alumni at Finais
was the gathering from the nineties. Back came
Randolph ‘Tucker Shields, star athlete of ’96-’98
from China; back came genial Charles J. Faulkner,
92, chief counsel for Armour and Company from
Chicago; back came Herbert Fitzpatrick, ’94, able,
keen-eyed, white polled, general counsel and_ vice:
president of the C. & O. Railway from Huntington
and Richmond. With him came Judge ‘‘Jake” Fisher,
93, of Sutton, West Va. Back came Dr. James A.
McClure, ’99, minister at St. Petersburg, Fla., to see
his son graduate; back came “Tom” Webb, ’97, from
Austin, Texas; back came Lewis Bumgardner, ’90,
lawyer and mine operator from Beckly, West Va.,

and his brother, Col. Rudolph Bumgardner, ’92, able.

Staunton lawyer; back came John W. Davis, ’92-’95,
New York City; Hugh Sproul, °92, of Staunton,
Va.; George W. St. Clair, 90, of Tazewell, Va., dis-
tinguished lawyers and trustees. Here they met
Prof. Hale Houston, ’92, quietly efficient engineer and
campus rejuvenator whose good works are legion;
met R. Granville Campbell, ’99, just recuperating
from a long and severe illness which had _necesst-
tated his absence from Lexington; met Thomas J].
Farrar, 99, Professor of German; Livingston W.
Smith, 96, Professor of Mathematics, and Harring-
ton Waddell, ’97, Superintendent of Lexington
Schools and W. & L. trustee.

Many were the happy greetings exchanged; many
were the informal gatherings at the Alumni Building
where views, experiences and reminiscences were ex-
changed and discussed; many were the firm avowals to
return next year with a bigger representation froin
the nineties.

Significant was the return of Dan Owen’s gang --
ham eaters all, who rally around each year in ever in-
creasing numbers. ‘This constant coterie of chronic
Commencement commuters find in Dan’s Society of
the Ham a full measure of reunion fellowship. “Ed”
and Clara Caffrey; “Ran” and “Comme Cabell; “Ed-
die’ and Edith Davis; Verbon and Ann Kemp; Jim
and Jimmy Caskie (?); Dan and Molly Owen, were
the charter members present. 1928 initiates included
“Judge” J. B. White, "23; Monk Mattox, ’23; “Cal-
lie” Callison, ’20; Clayton and “Billy” Williams, °12;
missing were some old members, but present was the
ham—cured, cooked and carved by Uncle Dan to pro-
vide the semi-annual sacrifice to the gods of alumni
fellowship.

Other alumni returned, registered at the Alumni
Building, visited friends in town or among the faculty.
Mr. and Mrs. Milledge Nail, ’24, came from Mem-
phis; Mr. and Mrs. Milling Bernstein, ’21, from
Monroe, La.; Mr. and Mrs. Rudy Copeland, Jr., ’23,
Oklahoma City, Okla.; Dr..and Mrs. W. T. Hanz-

 

W. T. Hanzscue, ‘11

“Bill to receive the degree”

sche, “11, from Trenton, N. J— Bull Hanzsche to re-

ceive the degree of Doctor of Divinity; Mr. and Mrs.
"7 WwW. Oliver, 04, drove from Buffalo, N. Y.;
Billy Cox, ’17, returned to receive the degree of Civil
Engineer; Freeman H. Hart, 712 and ’15, to receive
honorary membership in Alpha Sigma; Francis H.
Styles, ’18, for the past three years American Vice-
Consul at Durban, South Africa, was here; Eddie
Campbell, °18 and ’22, came home from Washington ;
J. S. Hansel, °17, came from McDowell, Va.; and
R. B. Houchins, ’25, from Pineville, West Va., where
he is assistant Prosecuting Attorney; Donald P.
Boyer, ’08, dropped in from Richmond, subscribed for
the A,umni Macaziné and bought a copy of the
Alumni Directory; George Chaney, ’11, Roger Win-
borne, 713, Ran Whittle, ’24, and Bill Gibbons, 21,
came up from Roanoke, as did Rufus Bowman from
Salem; Albert (“Kid”) Steves, (06, and family drove
up from San Antonio, Texas, to meet Albert, I,
sophomore student and Sam who enters W. & L. next
Fall; “Scram” Sale, ’24-’27, came from the West Vir-
ginia hills with many tales of West Virginia folk lore.
He was busily occupied while here. C. E. Burks, ’12,
represented Lynchburg; H. Austin Spang, Jr., 725,
came from New Haven, Conn.; R. L. Gordon, ’26,
from Louisville, Ky.; John Clay Hoover, ’22, from
Webster Springs, Mo.; and Edward lL. Junkin, 15,
from New Rochelle, N. Y,

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FINALS—1928

The feature of the alumni program at Finals was
- the address of Thomas M. Glasgow at the dedication
of the Class Memorial Bridge on Monday, June 4,
Alumni Day. Alumni, professors and townspeople
gathered in the Doremus gymnasium, heard Edward
H. Miller, ’28, president of the student body, formally
present the bridge to the University. President Henry
Louis Smith graciously expressed the gratitude and
pleasure of the University. ‘Tom Glasgow’ thrilled
the audience with his glowing address, “Building
Bridges,” was vigorously applauded (see page 51 for
full text of this address); Alumni Secretary Verbon
EK. Kemp presided. Present was R. Maynard Holt,
27, president of the student body which inaugurated
the campaign for the Class Memorial Bridge.

After the dedication ceremonies. alumni were served
a buffet luncheon in the gymnasium portico. Rain
prevented the schedule Faculty-Alumni baseball game.
The Albert Sidney crew won the annual North River
rowing classic and was the second possessor of the
new Gibson rowing trophy.

Visitors were formally received by the faculty and
administrative officers of the University in the Car-
negie Library Monday night. Afterward many alumni
attended the Senior-Alumni Ball; marched in the
Alumni figure led by Judge and Mrs. E. C. Caffrey,
09, and assisted by Mr. and Mrs. R. M. Cabell, ’20;
essayed to dance amid the pushing, bobbing young
couples; retired to the side lines to marvel.

Betimes alumni gathered at the Alumni Building;
greeted old friends; recalled student days gone by;
deplored the absence of other classmates; decried the
lack of more serious features in the student Com-
mencement program; applauded the revival of the
Southern Collegian; anticipated the resurrection of
Literary Society competition.

On the following day alumni went to the Lee Chapel,
witnessed the impressive entrance of trustees, offi-
cers, faculty and graduates; heard Dr. John H.
Latané, Ph.D., LL.D., former professor of History,
talk instructively on Latin-American relations (see
page 54 for full text of address) ; saw alumnus Her-
bert Fitzpatrick, ’94, and Dr. Latané receive the de-
gree of Doctor of Laws; W. T. Hanzche, B.A. ’1I,
of Trenton, N. J., be awarded the degree of Doctor
of Divinity, and Governor Harry Flood Byrd the de-
gree of Doctor of Commercial Science.

Thus passed Finals 1928, possibly for the last time
a period for formal graduate reunion. For it was
decided that the day of the annual Home-Coming
football game be designated as Alumni Reunion Day
and that an exclusive alumni entertainment program
be arranged for the three-day period including and
preceding the day of the game. Thus the next an-
nual alumni reunion will be November 15-17.

WASHINGTON AND LEE BOARD OF
TRUSTEES HOLD ANNUAL
_ JUNE MEETING

At the annual June meeting of the board of trus-
tees of Washington and Lee University Monday in
Lexington, Rector Geo. W. St. Clair appointed a com-
mittee of trustees, John S. Munce, William A. Mac-
Corkle, John W. Davis, Hugh B. Sproul and the rec-
tor, Geo. W. St. Clair, to consider the matter of the
presidency of the University. By age limitation the
term of President Henry Louis Smith will expire in
June, 1930.

The board accepted the resignation of Trustee Wil-
liam D. Lewis and the rector was directed to write
Mr. Lewis a letter of appreciation for his services.

A request from the student body for the establish-
ment of a campus tax of ten dollars was referred to_
the executive committee.

Professor Hale “Houston was made superintendent
of grounds, walks and roads. Professor William Coaa
was appointed official statistician for the university.
Assistant Professors Walter A. Flick and H. Gray
Funkhouser were made associate professors.

The board raised the amount of the alumni scholar-

ship from $80 to $130, and provided that it be given

through an organized alumni association of eight or
ten members. _

The committee on nomination of trustees was con-
tinued until the October meeting. The executive
committee, ‘Trustees William A. Anderson, H. B.
Sproul, Harrington Waddell and James R. Caskie,
was reappointed.

The following were present at the meeting: Rector
G. W. St. Clair, [rashes ey = inderson, J. S.
Munce, W. McWhite, Harrington Waddell, W. A.
MacCorkle, J. W. Davis, H. B. Sproul, J. R. Caskie,
and George Bolling Lee.

—__—\_——_ 6, 0___—_—_——_
¢

BIRTHS

BORN: ‘To Rev. and Mrs. Branson L. Wood, ’10,
a daughter, Virginia Campbell, on March 31st.

BORN: ‘To Mr. and Mrs. Henry W. Dew, ’11, a
daughter, Mary Bland, on April 8th, in New York
City.

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Earl L. Valentine, ’26,
a son, Earl L., Jr., on March 19th. Mr. Valentine is
practicing Law in Lexington, Va.

ae ee

DOUGLAS S. ANDERSON, ‘90, of New Or-
leans, La., writes us: “I am simply following the
steady round of duties which fall to the lot of the
Dean of a progressive and growing College of Engi-
neering. I was recently elected vice-president of our
local alumni association.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE il

New Alumni Trustees

Your Alumni Association, Inc., is governed by a
board of seven trustees who serve for three year
terms. ‘Iwo vacancies occur each year and every
third year there are three vacancies. According to

‘the newly adopted constitution trustees, except the

president of the Association, cannot succeed them-
selves in office.

At Commencement this year the terms of trustees
Dr. William Allan, ’02, Charlotte, N. C., Laruence
Witten, 10, Cincinnat, Olio, a¢c a: @ P. Davis,
15, Lexington, Va., expired. To succeed them the
Board sent a ballot including their nominations of
six alumni for trusteeship to every former student
cf Washington and Lee. As a result of the vote re-
ceived John LL. Campbell, ’11, Lexington; C. T.
Chenery, 09, New York; and Dr. J. Morrison Hut-
cheson, ’05, Richmond, Va., were nominated and
elected at the annual alumni meeting.

Fach of the new trustees have long been active in
the affairs of the Association; have shown a cooper-
ative interest in the University; are men of broad
business experience.

John Campbell, son of the late John L. Campbell
for years the beloved Secretary and Treasurer of the
University, has practised law in Lexington since his
eraduation; is now trust officer of the Rockbridge
National Bank.

 

 

 

 

Dr. J. Morrtson Hutcueson, 705
—On Alumm Board

 

 

Curis CHENERY, 09

“Engineered”

“Chris” Chenery, eminent engineer, engineered in
the Pacific Northwest; at Washington, D. C., for the
U. S. government; overseas in the Army Engineer
Corps and in his New York private consultation
office. He is now president of the Federal Water
Service Corporation, potent operating company of
the public water-works in many a city. He was one
cf the organizers of the Alumni, Inc., in 1911.

Dr. Hutcheson, native of Rockbridge County,
physician, Major U. S. Medical Corps overseas, is a
consulting specialist in Richmond, Va., and betimes
a professor. at the Medical College of Virginia.

In addition to the above new trustees the Alumni
Association Board includes Judge E. C. Caffery, ’09,
Wewark, N. J.; Paul Buford, 13, Roanoke, Va.; D.
B. Owen, °12, Doylesville, Va.; and Sam Frierson,
00, Florence, Ala.; Verbon E. Kemp, ’20, is Sec-
retary of the Association and Editor of the Mac-
4ZINE; Miss Dora Witt and Miss Mary Barclay are
assistant secretaries, and F. J. Gilliam, ’17, is con-
tributing Editor of the Macazingr. E. L. Graham,
11, of Lexington, is Secretary and Treasurer of the
Association.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FUTURE FINANCIAL CAMPAIGNS

Duty, privilege or liability according to the point
of view, one of the functions of an alumnus is to con-
tribute funds for the enlargement or advancement of
Alma Mater. The business of higher education is not
self-supporting. Perhaps it should be made so. Ney-
ertheless, at present it is continued under subsidy—
generally by state, church or private benefaction.

Because of this, attendance at a college or uni-
versity has come to imply an ethical obligation to re-
pay the subsidizer by contributing to the subsidy— a
payment in kind for benefits received.

Also, colleges create strong attachments, are ob-
jects of affection as well as utilitarian instruments.
Gifts from their alumni are offerings of warm esteem
on alters of happy memories.

For these and many other reasons Washington and
lee alumni have been generous. Many have paid up
their endowment pledges in full and have made new
gifts for other projects. Others are still paying on
their Endowment Fund pledges.

Wishing to help safeguard and conserve alumni lib-
erality, the Alumni Association, Inc., has petitioned
the University Board of Trustees to be allowed to
inspect and approve any and all campaigns for funds
to be directed wholly or partly to the alumni by the
University or any branch thereof and that no such
appeals for funds be authorized now or_ hereafter
without its approval.

Thus the Association would assist in checking too
frequent calls upon alumni; would consider the merit
of the project for which funds are to be solicited;
would inquire carefully into the qualifications and
characters of the solicitors employed. Thus would
the stamp “approved by the Alumni Association,
Inc.,” serve the University and the alumni member-
ship. |

\2
oe

UNIVERSITY GETTING SPRING OVER-
HAULING

Mr. P. M. Penick, University treasurer, reports that
all spring improvements on the university will be fin-
ished before the general summer overhauling and re-
pairing is begun.

Reid and Newcomb Halls are being painted, new
water pipes have been laid to the dining hall, the
campus is being beautified, and young trees planted
in advantageous spots.

The two big jobs in the improvement of the school
this spring are the building of the Memorial Bridge
with its approaches, and the repair and extension of
the campus roads. |

 

 

2»
ee
4°

DAN BLAIN, ’21, studying Medicine at Vander-
bilt, was a recent visitor to Lexington.

 

@

MONTHLY PUBLICATION OF THE
MAGAZINE

Would you like to receive the Macazine ten times
per year at the present subscription rate?

The Washington and Lee Ayumnr Macaztne has
been issued five times each year for the past four
years. It has been enthusiastically endorsed and
highly praised by alumni in every section. Subscrip-
tion to the MacazIner has been substituted for the an-
nual dues formerly levied by the Alumni Association,
Inc. All costs of compilation, publication and distri-
bution of the Macazing have been paid from sub-
scription receipts.

We would like to increase the usefulness of, and
interest in, the MAGAzINE by issuing it monthly dur-
ing the college year and once during the summer—ten
issues each year. Athletic news would reach sub-
scribers more freshly; alumni could keep in closer con-
tact with campus affairs, would be better informed as
to football prospects and plans for the big game and
for alumni reunions; the volume of MacazIne fea-
tures practically doubled and new features added.

Casting about for ways and means to adopt the ten-
issue schedule we find that it can be done without
increasing the subscription rate, if we can double the
circulation. For it costs less, proportionately, io
print two thousand copies than one thousand, and
more national advertising can be secured with a
doubled paid circulation.

Therefore, we propose to inaugurate the monthly
publication schedule, starting with the next issue of
October Ist, if one thousand new subscriptions are
received.

A subscription blank is inserted in this issue. If
you would like to receive ten or twenty copies of the
MaGazine¥ similar in content to this issue, fill in the
blank and send with your check to the Alumni Sec-
retary, Drawer 897, Lexington, at once, in order to
help make up the necessary “second thousand” sub-
scriptions. The rate, including alumni dues, is $2.50
for one year or $4.00 for two years.

2,
——___—_+¢
se

 

JUDGE AND MRS. CAFFREY SAIL FOR
EUROPE

Sailing on Monday, July 2nd, for a tour of Norway
and Sweden were Judge and Mrs. E. C. Caffrey, ’09.
After visiting the Land of Mid-night Sun they will
spend some time in Paris and London. Both were
here in June for Finals where Judge Caffrey, presi-
dent of the Alumni Association, Inc., presided at the
annual Alumni meeting and with Mrs. Caffrey led
the Alumni figure at the Senior-Alumni Ball. They
have made frequent trips to European shores,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Alumni Representation on the Board

Defining the governing body of the University the
charter of 1876 provides that “The persons hereinbe-
fore named, and their successors in office, shall consti-
tute the permanent trustees of the University, an
may fill vacancies in their own body when their num-
ber shall be reduced below fifteen, so that their num-
ber shall not exceed fifteen. They may associate with
themselves such other persons as associate trustees,
not exceeding nine in number, as they deem advisabl:,
who shall be elected in such manner and for sucn
term, and have such qualifications as they may pre-
scribe.” |

At the annual meeting of the Alumni Association,
June 4th, we petitioned the University Board to en-
large its membership as outlined in the above charter
provision and that the alumni be allowed the privilege
of electing at least eight of these associate trustees and
their successors in office. (See Minutes Annual
Alumni Meeting, page 42.)

The request for enlargement of the Board is strongly
re-enforced by similar recommendations by President
Henry Louis Smith and the Board’s committee on
By-Laws.

Our petition for the privilege of electing at least
eight of the associate trustees is not without preced-
ent. Alumni election of Board members is in vogue
at many other institutions. Princeton University
and Davidson College are noteworthy examples.  [t
is in entire accord with the charter provision for the
election of associate trustees quoted above.

We offer the following plan for the election of
eight or nine associate Alumni Trustees for terms of
four years each; two to be elected the first year after
the adoption of this petition and two to be elected
each year thereafter until the terms of the first two
shall have expired and their successors elected in like
manner.

1. The prescription by the University Board of their qual-
ifications for Associate membership.

2. The geographical division of alumni equally, according to
population, into eight electoral districts.

3. The organization of three active electoral chapters in
each district and the voting affiliation of every alumnus
within the district with one of these chapters; each electoral
chapter to have the privilege of nominating one of their num-
ber for trusteeship.

4. In annual meeting at Lexington the election of one of
the three nominees from each of two districts every year by
the Alumni Association, Incorporated, until each district is
duly represented on the Board.

5. If in the opinion of the Board the trustee elected fails
to fulfill the prescribed requirements he may be rejected by a
two-third vote of the Board members present and the elec-
tion of another trustee from his district by the trustees of the
Alumni, Inc., be requested.

6. If the alumni are allowed the privilege of electing the

full complement of nine associate trustees the ninth member
would be elected as alumni trustee at large every four years
at the annual meeting of the Alumni Association, Inc., and
be subject to the above provision.

According to this plan twenty-four active alumni
chapters would be organized; alumni in every section
of the country would be officially represented.

But our petition contains one further important
provision—namely, that these alumni trustees shall
have full power to vote upon every question coming
before the Board. Without such voting power they
would share responsibility without the compensating
authority; membership would be of little interest io
the alumni and a possible source of contention.

The University charter makes the following clear
definition of the powers of the associate trustees:

“The permanent trustees and the associate trustees, if the
latter shall be established, shall constitute the board of trus-
tees, and shall have power to select a presiding officer from
the permanent trustees with the title of Rector, and to elect a
secretary and treasurer of the corporation, who shall hold their
offices for such term as they may prescribe. They shall
elect, and for good cause may also remove from office, a

president, professors, tutors, and other officers requisite to

conduct the instruction in the university course; and_ shall
annually grant to such students as, in their opinion, merit the
same, diplomas or testimonials, under the common seal,
signed by the president, rector, and at least three trustees,
reciting the literary degree granted. They shall prescribe a
code of by-laws for the organization and detailed duties of
the board of trustees, and shall adopt and maintain a code of
laws for the guidance and government of the faculty and stu-
dents; and the said code of laws shall be binding and lawful,
if in pursuance of this charter, and not inconsistent with the
laws of this commonwealth.”

and

“Seven members of the board shall be requisite to consti-
tute a quorum for the transaction of business, but it shall re-
quire a majority of the permanent trustees in office, with
such of the associate trustees as may be present, to consti-
tute a quorum for any disposition of the real estate, for the
election of the president, a professor, or trustee; for the
appropriation of a greater sum than two hundred dollars, or
te suspend, amend, adopt, or abolish any by-laws of the code
herein authorized.”

Thus it appears that associate trustees are only pro-
hibited from choosing a Rector from their number
and that a majority of the permanent trustees must
be present for transaction of certain specified busi-
ness. Logically, the requirement of the presence of a
majority of the permanent trustees for the enaction
of certain business does not disqualify the associate
trustees from voting upon that business.

No action of the Alumni Association, Inc., in re-
cent years has met with the favor and enthusiastic
support from the alumni membership as has this pe-
tition. Its favorable consideration by the University
Board is awaited with keen anticipation.

 

 

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Next Home-Coming, November | 4-17

Saturday, November 17, is Home-Coming Day.
The Washington and Lee Football team will meet
the Gobbler Eleven from V. P. I. on Wilson Field
and try to avenge last year’s defeat at Blacksburg.
The annual alumni meeting will be held in the Lee
Chapel at 10:30 A. M., preceding the game, and the
annual alumni luncheon served at noon in the gym-
nasium portico.

A special and exclusively alumni program is be-
ing arranged for the two days preceding the game.
According to the action taken at the annual alumni
meeting this occasion will practically supersede Com-
mencement as the official alumni reunion period.
For Commencement has become the period for under-
graduate celebration, and perhaps properly so. With
a full program of undergraduate entertainment and
social events there is little room for alumni activities
at Commencement.

Plans are being made to utilize every facility of
students, faculty and townspeople for the entertain-
ment of alumni for the Home-Coming, November
14-17. Alumni will be asked to address student
classes in the various departments. Arrangements are
being made for a special student assembly to be ad-
dressed by a prominent alumnus, Friday, November
16; for a series of athletic events on Wilson Field,
Friday afternoon, and for an alumni banquet and

dance Friday night. Also a program will be ar-
ranged for the wives and families of visiting alumni.

This occasion should afford alumni an opportunity
to take a short Fall vacation, drive to Lexington and
see the college in session, spend three or more days
in the company of former classmates amidst the
friendly memorable campus surroundings.

Home-Coming next Fall will be our first attempt
at arranging a full and exclusive alumni program.
It has not been successfully done at Washington and
Lee before. The presence of a large and representa-
tive group of alumni from all classes will be neces-
sary to make this attempt successful. It is the time
scheduled for the reunion of the classes of ’17, 718,
"19 and “20; of “OO, 710, Al and 12, or 96)
00 -and “Ol; ‘and- ot 90, OF, 02 993) and 94.

A special Home-Coming committee, F. J. Gilliam,
"17, chairman, R. N. Lattitre (15°C Ri, Gill 22.
and Dr. T. J. Farrar, are in charge of the Reunion
and Entertainment program. R. A. Smith, ’15, Dean
H. D. Campbell, °82, and the Alumni Secretary will
cooperate.

Begin to make your plans for a Fall vacation trip
to Lexington to enjoy the new Alumni Reunion pro-
gram and to see the Generals defeat V. P. I. on Wil-
son Field.

 

 

ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIP INCREASED IN
VALUE

In response to the petition presented on June 4th
by the Alumni Association, Inc., the University
Trustees authorized the increase of the Alumni
Scholarship from $80 to $130 in value.

This scholarship may be awarded each year by any
active alumni association with seven or more mem-
bers to a deserving applicant, whose scholastic cre-
dentials meet the University requirements, for admis-
sion to Washington and Lee. The amount of the
scholarship is deductible from the regular tuition fees
which now total $260. It can only be awarded to
first year students.

The generous provision by the University for this
award enables local alumni chapters to better encour-
age desirable High or Preparatory School students
from their home localities to attend Washington and
Lee and in many cases makes that attendance possible.
For, once established for their first year here, able
and willing students, handicapped by limited funds,
can find sufficient opportunities for self-help.

FINANCIAL REPORT OF THE ALUMNI
INCORPORATED

June: 4, 1927 te: May 1, 1928
RECEIPTS:
Balance on hand June 1, 1927 $ 92.23
Total rec’d., sub. to Magazine
and Directory to May 1, 1928 2040.71

 

Total retals 3.00.23 -e.. 2 2192.94 $2132.04
DISBURSEMENTS:
To printing Alumni Magazine $1124.21
To wages and salaries........ 386.81
To postage, express, freight.. 212.37
To office supplies, phone, etc.. 115.45
To. equipeent 6230.06 170.97
To refunds and transfers..... 92.20
Total disbursements, June 1,
1927 to May 1.1933) $2102.01

Balance on hand May 1,

1928. |... $30.93

> aiden

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

The Next President

At its meeting on January 17, 1920, the Washing-
ton and Lee Board of Trustees enacted the follow-
ing resolutions: “1. That when any officer or profes-
sor shall have reached the age of sixty-five years,
the Board at its next meeting shall make a special
investigation to determine the advisability of his re-
tirement, and the terms thereon, should such retire-
ment be considered advisable. 2. When an officer or
professor shall attain the age of seventy years his
office shall be vacated at the next following Com-
mencement. The Board, however, at its pleasure can
re-elect him from year to year’ and further, “3. It
shall be the duty of the President to furnish the
Board at each meeting the names of such officers or
professors as shall have attained the aforesaid age
limits, and to make such recommendations thereon
as he deems advisable.”

Dutiful, President Henry Louis Smith, according
to provision 3, notified the Board at its June 4th
meeting that on July 30, 1929, he would celebrate
his seventieth birthday. His term will automatically
expire at Commencement, 1930. The Board accord-
ingly appointed a committee on the presidency con-
sisting of ‘Trustees Davis, Munce, MacCorkle,
Sproul and Rector St. Clair.

The selection of a successor to Dr. Smith is a mat-
ter of vital interest to every friend, patron and
alumnus of Washington and Lee. The ‘Trustees’
committee shoulders a weighty burden.

There is no need at this time to eulogize President
Smith. The progress and advancement of the Uni-
versity under his administration is vividly etched
with irrefutable facts and figures on enduring tab-
lets. Dr. Smith will either be temporarily retained
yearly as President, as is provided by the enactment
of the Board; will be retained 1n some capacity other
than that of President or will be fully retired as
President Emeritus.

But the selection of a new president in the near
tuture is inevitable. Sooner or later new hands must
be put to the wheel, soundings taken, sails trimmed
and our position on the charted course re-defined.

A harrassed Board met in 1865 to select a leader
for the war-wrecked, poverty stricken college. There
seemed to be no likely prospects. Finally a trustee
volunteered the information that General Robert E.
Lee might consider the position. The Board was in-
credulous. But nothing ventured, nothing gained;
and an emissary was appointed to wait upon General
Lee. En route he met an emissary returning from an
interview with General Lee, on a similar mission
from Sewanee Episcopal University. He gave no en-
couragement. But General Lee accepted the presi-
dency of Washington College, poverty stricken but

 

 

 

PRESIDENT R. E. Les

—Refused Sewanee

free from denominational and political control. At
his death in 1870 the selection of his son, General
G. W. C. Lee as president was logical. Upon his re-
tirement in 1897 the Board deliberated leisurely,
chose a brilliant though ill, public figure, Hon. Wil-
liam L,. Wilson, U. S. Postmaster-General under
President Grover Cleveland. His illness was fatal
and in 1900 the Board met under some duress for
the choice of his successor. Contention was rife.
Out-lawed issues were forced. Out of the frictional
heat the fine figure of President George H. Denny,
aged 30, professor of Latin, was crystalized. He
served ably until 1911, resigned to accept the presi-
dency of the University of Alabama. At this time
the Board squelched the revival of the 1900 contro-
versies, for all time it is hoped, elected Dr. Henry
Louis Smith, President of Davidson College, N. C.
Eighteen years of fruitful service will bring Dr.
Smith to retirement age.

Now, with at least two full years for deliberation,
the Board faces its important task with some leisure.

There are three fields from which the new presi-
dent may logically be drawn; present Faculty, pro-
fessional education outside the Faculty, or business
and public affairs. ‘The former presidents have been
drawn from these fields.

In the. present Faculty field there are no stated
aspirants. Professors qualified for the position are
too well aware of its difficulties, too close to the vortex,
too participant in the machinery to definitely aspire
to individual control. First thoughts turn to Dr. H.
D. Campbell, ’82, venerable, beloved Dean and pro-

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

fessor of Geology, long associated with Washington
and Lee; or to Dr. James Lewis Howe, versatile and
agreeable chemist, Dean of Science. But both of these
able men reach the retirement age within the next
few years. Other thoughts might turn to such

thoroughly capable and efficient professors as Dr. L.

W. Smith, 96, of the Mathematics department; Dr.

B. D. Easter, facile linguist; Dr. Edgar F. Shannon

of the English department; Dr. L. J. Desha, 706,
professor of Chemistry, or Law Dean W. H. More-
land, ’06. ‘Two other professors, known for their
"effective work and unusually broad outlook, have been
prominently mentioned. They are Dr. William
Brown, °15, young, aggressive, active, brilliant and
militant modern educationalist, professor of Educa-
tion and Psychology; and Dr. Robert H. Tucker,
proven organizer and administrator, mature and in-
dependent thinker, intellectual pathfinder of the pro-
gressive movement in Virginia government, adaptable
leader, sane practical man of affairs, professor of
Economics. In common, both men have been offered
the presidency of other institutions, are able public
speakers, have established reputations beyond local
confines, are diligent, energetic workers. :

In the outside field of professional educators there
are many possibilities—but few who are known to be
free from the shackles of previous educational train-
ing and experience—a necessary freedom in view of
the necessary changes and advancements being made
in the purposes, methods and modes of modern edu-
cation. From this field the names of Dr. John H.
Latané, authority in international law, foe of im-
_ perialism, writer, lecturer, one-time professor of His-
tory at Washington and Lee, Dean of Johns Hopkins
University; of Dr. J. A. C. Chandler, aggressive,
potent educational promoter, originator of the Wil-
liamsburg restoration project, one-time Superinten-
dent of Richmond Virginia Schools, President of the
College of William and Mary; of Dr. William Rey-
nolds Vance, ’92, lawyer, authority on Insurance,
former professor of Law at Washington and Lee,
one-time Dean of Law at George Washington Uni-
versity and at the University of Minnesota, now pro-
fessor of Law at Yale.

Much may be gained by the selection of an able
executive from the field of business or public affairs.
Here the task is further complicated because of the
sacrifice involved. ‘There are few competent possibili-
ties who might give up lucrative careers for the cause
of Education at Washington and Lee. Often men-
tioned have been the names of Newton D. Baker, 94,
lawyer, publicist, scholar, sociologist, Secretary of
War under President Woodrow Wilson, newly ap-
pointed member of the Hague International Arbitra-
tion Court, trustee of Washington and Lee and Johns
Hopkins Universities; of Dr. Douglas Freeman,

journalist, publicist, author, orator, student, authority
on the life and military campaigns of Robert E. Lee,
honorary alumnus, Editor of the Richmond, Virginia,
News Leader; of Col. Leroy Hodges, *10, man of
figures and budgets, Moses of commercial expansion,
able public speaker, super-salesman, holder of foreign
decorations for merit, Director of the Virginia State
Chamber of Commerce; and finally — again the
Board might be incredulous but venture—the name
of John W. Davis, ’92, ’95, scholar, lawyer, repre-
sentative, advocate, diplomat, nominee for the presi-
dency of the United States, distinguished son of a
distinguished father, trustee, preéminent legal counsel.

There are other able prospects in each field. Those
mentioned are the possibilities most frequently dis-
cussed by alumni and other interested parties. It is
our purpose to open the pages of the ALUMNI
MaGAZINE for a frank, open discussion of the presi-
dency. Alumni are invited to express their opinions.

VERBON FE. Kemp, Editor.

¢

IMPROVEMENTS

Witson Frerp Foot Bripce COMPLETED

The handsome concrete footbridge connecting
Doremus Gymnasium and Wilson Athletic Field at
Washington and Lee now stands complete. It is a
beautiful addition to the landscape. The bridge
proper was completed several months ago, and the
past weeks have been devoted to erecting the ap-
proaches at both ends. From the gymnasium end
wide steps descend to an ample and spacious platform
at the end of the bridge. The rail spreads to en-
circle this approach. At the west end there is a simi-
lar widened space between the railing with a few
steps down to the field. The steel fence which sur-
rounds the athletic field will be moved back and gates
put in at the end of the bridge.

EXTENSIVE IMPROVEMENTS to Dryta Tau DELTA
HOUSE

Extensive improvements to the Delta Tau Delta
house on Lee Avenue are under way. ‘The entire rear
portion of the brick building is being torn down.
New foundations are being put in at the rear for an
expansive two-story addition. ‘The side walls at the.
rear are also coming down and will be rebuilt with
added width.

The front of the house will be remodeled and
made colonial with the addition of large white col-
umns. ‘The improvement is to cost $17,000 and will
be completed by the beginning of the session in the
fall.

RALEIGH JENKINS, 724, is still in the lumber

business in Birmingham, Ala.

aah ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Henry Boley—Fnendship Specialist

If you were a student at Washington and Lee at —

any time during the past twenty years and returned
to Lexington on that long delayed visit your first

call would be at Boley’s Book Store. There you

know you will be heartily welcomed and immedi-
ately recognized by that curly black-haired, genial
soul of friendship, Henry Boley, man of books,
alumnus extraordinary, unofficial alumni secretary.

Since 1908, when Henry was a part of Stuart’s
Book Store, he has been meeting and making con-
tacts with Washington and Lee students which have
often ripened into lasting friendships. After the
death of Mr. Stuart, Henry formed a partnership
with H. Crim Peck, ’07, and acquired the business in
1914. Boley’s Book Store now, as then, is a center
tor students—maybe because of the attractive ar-
rangement of the store, more than likely because of
the personality of Henry Boley.

But it is upon the return of alumni that Henry is
happiest. For he is a_ specialist in alumni friend-
ships. He maintains an irregular but warm corre-
spondence with many of his old alumni friends, and
upon their return he holds open house for them, both
at his store and home. |

Henry’s home deserves the attention of a separate
article from the pen of some qualified specialist on
House and Gardens. Suffice it to say that his home
is a home with the welcoming fireside, an easy loung-
ing chair, books and a dog; and the spacious sur-
rounding grounds are always bowers of beauty tended
by Henry in person. Here he has created a picture
in an elaborate array of colors—profusion in flowers,
rock gardens, lily pools and arbors.

There is one particular nook in Henry’s home that
is dedicated to the friendships. That is his den—or
study. For here on all four walls and above his desk
are hung affectionately autographed photographs of
many of his friends among V. M. I. and W. & L.

alumni—here the contacts with former days are al-
ways warm and bright—here the returning alumnus
is at home for a quiet chat about yesterdays and to-

morrows. For Henry is far from being tied to

‘memortes of the past. In his home the present stu-

dents and cadets are often entertained, sometimes ad-
vised, always welcomed. They, too, will come back
in after years for a long delayed visit—and get their
bearings at Boley’s Book Store; will rejoice in
Henry’s lasting, unselfish friendship; will be warmed
by renewed visits to Henry’s home and gardens.

Henry should be appointed “official greeter” for
the Alumni Association, Inc., for he is truly alumni
secretary without portfolio. Occasionally Henry takes
a vacation trip, which is really a succession of visits.
with alumni—a trip to San Antonio meant calls to
see almuni at Bristol, Chattanooga, and Memphis; at
Tittle Rock, Texarkana, and Dallas; and in like man-
ner on his return by way of New Orleans.

Then there is Henry’s friendly family, Miss Fannie
Boley, his sister, who presides over his home; Crim
Peck, 07, lawyer, golfer and business partner; and
Peggy Boley, Boston Bull whose capacity for friend-
ship almost equals Henry’s. In fact, Henry says that
many of his visitors come just to see Peggy—for
Peggy is an unusual dog, as her many friends will
attest.

So it is no wonder the visiting alumni always seek
out Henry Boley upon returning to Lexington and
fnd that warm, friendly welcome back to the campus
which makes coming back worth while. They can say
with Henry—“I count myself in nothing so fortunate
as in the memory of my good friends”—and with
each succeeding visit to Lexington and the campus
rejoice in his ever-warm friendship, in the hospitality
of his home, the beauty of his gardens and the
intelligent companionship of his dog. ;

Henry BoLkéy

 

Lily Pools—Bowers

Dedicated to Friendships

 

~

A Dog

 

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ADDITIONS TO LEXINGTON BUSINESS
SECTION |

Three substantial additions to Lexington’s business
section will be completed and occupied this month.
They have been in process ot building for several
months.

The Newberry Five, Ten and Twenty-five Cent
Store, erected on Main Street by Isaac Weinberg,
was opened for business on July 13th. The room ts
a large and spacious one, about 40 feet by 100 feet,
occupying the space formerly given to two store-
rooms. ‘The second story of the building is not yet
completed.

The Rockbridge Motor Company have ahout com-
pleted the large fireproot addition to their storage
garage, with the exception of putting on the roofing
and putting in window panes. The building is of
steel, brick and concrete with a runway te the second
It will about double the old
storage capacity of the garage.

Charles H. Smith completed his two-story Iitsiness
house adjoining Woodward’s garage on Main Street,
about the middle of July. Down stairs and upstairs
are each given over to one large room, and the entire
building has been rented by Fox’s restaurant. The
upstairs will be used for banquets. The rooms are
spacious and bright with high ceilings.

On July 13th the new Robert Morton Orchestral
organ, installed at the New Theatre, Ralph I. Daves,
‘25, manager, was introduced to Lexington and Rock-
bridge people. Ernest L. Houde, of New York, an
accomplished organist, was present on the opening

floor for automobiles.

night, and presented a novelty offering entitled “A
Trip through the Organ,” which enabled the patrons
to familiarize themselves with the many and varied
instruments contained in the organ. The organ was
installed in the theatre at a cost of $25,000.

se a
O

SCHOOL YEAR TO START WITH FROSH
PSYCH EXAM. SEPT. 11th.

The school year of 1928-29 will begin next fall
with the psychological examination for freshman 04
Tuesday, September 11, at 10:30 A. M.

New students will register on Wednesday, Septem-
ber 12, and old students on Thursday, September 13.
The opening assembly will be held Thursday morn-
ing in the gymnasium and, as is customary, the Presi-
dent and the Dean will formally open the session.

Classes will begin the morning of Friday, the 14th.

Pe eg ie tg see Pe
¢

Make monthly publication of the MAGAZINE pos-
sible: send in your subscription today; rates $2.50
per year, $4.00 for two years.

FACULTY MIGRATIONS.

The whereabouts of some of the members of the
faculty of Washington and Lee during the summet
is to be noted as follows:

Dr. William G. Bean, accompanied by Mrs. Bean,
has gone to Tuscaloosa, Ala., where he will teach
during the summer in the University of Alabama.

Prof. and Mrs. Lawrence FE. Watkin have gone to

New York state, expecting to spend the summer in

the Adirondacks. :

Professors Howard G. Funkhouser and Edward
H. Howard have gone to Columbia University where
they will do graduate work during the summer.

Prof. and Mrs. Marvin G. Bauer have gone to Den-

ver, Colo., where he is teaching during the summer at

Denver University.

Professors Carl EK. L. Gill and John A. Graham are
spending the summer in France and adjoining coun-
tries. Five Washington and Lee students accompany
them.

Dr. F: L. Riley and family went in their car to Glen-
dale, California, where they will spend the summer.

Dr. and Mrs. William T. Hoyt and family are spend-
ing the summer in Gloucester, Mass.

Dr. Edgar F. Shannon is a member of the University
of Virginia summer school faculty this summer.

Prof. and Mrs. Charles McDowell and little son are
spending the summer in Danville, Kentucky.

Prof. Earle K. Paxton is pursuing graduate studies
at Columbia University during the summer.

Dr. and Mrs. Robert W. Dickey went in their car to
Ann Arbor, Mich., where Dr. Dickey planned to study
during the summer at the University of Michigan.

Dr. G. D. Hancock, Dean of the School of Com-
merce, attended the annual convention of the Associa-
tion of Collegiate Schools of Business which was held
in Chicago on Thursday and Friday, May 3 and 4. This
association consists of about 36 collegiate business
schools including Harvard, Columbia, Pennsylvania,
Wisconsin and Northwestern University where the
convention met.

Prof. Forest Fletcher attended a meeting of the
Olympic committee, held in New York. Prof. Flet-
cher was formerly an Olympic star and still holds sev-
eral world’s records in track.

Miss Anne R. White returned to her home in Lex-
ington after a prolonged absence visiting friends at
Helena, Ark.; Montgomery, Ala.; and Atlanta, Ga.

Dr. Robert W. Dickey of the Washington and Lee
faculty, went to Atlanta to attend the national student
convention of the American Institute of Electrical En-
gineering.

Prof. Charles P. Light represented the Washington
and Lee law school at the American Law Institute held
in Washington.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

- Changes

Few major changes in the faculty are announced for
the coming year. Dr. B. A. Wooten, Professor of
Physics, goes to that department at the University of
Alabama. He is succeeded by Dr. R. W. Dickey, 719.
Howard M. Thompson, assistant in the School of
Journalism is succeeded by W. L. Mabel. Prof. Robert
Carroll, assistant in Biology, is to take charge of the
Biology department at V. M. I.

At Washington and Lee Dr. B. A. Wooten achieved
an enviable reputation as a teacher and won the af -
fection of the townspeople and Faculty. Independent,
penetrating, friendly, he succeeded the famed late Dr.
W. LeConte Stephens in 1924, and carried on the effi-
cient work of the Physics department. He answers
the call of his native state for a field of greater op-
portunity. His successor, Dr. R. W. Dickey, received
his Bachelor’s degree here in 1910, his Master's and
Doctor’s degrees at Johns Hopkins, served in the
World War and returned to his Alma Mater to teach.
He was head of the department of Electrical Hngi-
neering at the time of his elevation to the Physics
Chair.

Howard Thompson carved a peculiar niche for him-
self at Washington and Lee. He came here in 1926,
at the recommendation of Prof. R. B. Ellard, head
of the department of Journalism, as assistant pro-
fessor in that growing department. Upon his arrival
he found the head of the department incapacitated by
a serious illness which necessitated a year’s leave of
absence. Prof. Thompson adapted himself to the
situation, assumed the entire burden of the Journalism
department, taught all classes, capably handled college
publicity, held the Southern Intercollegiate Press
Convention and directed the department with honesty
and diligence; seemed assured of a promising future
here; was rewarded with official recognition. But soon
after Prof. Ellard’s return to part-time duty, Mr.
Thompson resigned. He had served too well. ‘Tempt-
ing openings with larger salary inducements awaited
him. He accepted the advertising managership o!
The Retail Coalman, trade journal published at Chi-
cago, Ill., where he will make his home. Particularly
valuable was Mr. Thompson’s publicity work. An
unprecedented volume of University events were
promptly reported and published by important news-
papers throughout the country. Under him athletic,
University and Alumni publicity might have been
confidently and efficiently united.

Prof. W. L. Mabel, who succeeds Mr. Thompson,
graduated at the University of Missouri, taught on the
Round-the-World cruise of the University Afloat,
was head of the Journalism Department at Ohio State
Teachers’ College.

At V. M. I. Mr. Carroll receives a distinct promo-

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. B. A. Wooten

LG See to Alabama”

tion. His successor will be Mr. Lemuel L. Hill from

the University of N. C.

*
CEE ee
%

 

REPORT ON ALUMNI BUILDING FUND

Receipts from donations by alumni and

i a ee $2301.00
Expenditures:
ew ee $ 750.78
ee ee ae 141.38
a ee 859.65
ee ee 421.35
Pent and transier.......... 4.19
Terrance 2... ee Se. 3.20
Worl expenditures ......... $2180.55 2180.55
Pealance on batids. SFr... $120.45
Received from rentals:
© i. student body........ $25.00
Lex. Woman's. Club.......... 32.00
$57.00 $57.00
Plante Sak $177.45

20

 

PRESIDENT SMITH

“Into brilliant verbal Rnots........0+ skeins of rare beauty”

PRESIDENT SMITH

The English language is a precise tool of the mind.
_ There are few as prolific and effective in the use of this
tool as President Henry Louis Smith, who can weave
our medium of expression into brilliant verbal knois
and unravel it into skeins of rare beauty. During
the spring months Dr. Smith spoke before the Vir-
ginia Education Association at Lynchburg and_ the
annual meeting of the Shenandoah Valley, Inc., at
Staunton, attended the unveiling of a statue of Cyrus
H. McCormick, attended with ‘Treasurer Paul M.
Penick the General Assembly of the Presbyterian
Church at Atlanta. At Lexington he pondered the
possibilities of his North Carolina apple orchard,
talked to Trustees about his approaching retirement,
pushed his campaign for the modernization of Wash-
ington and Lee curriculum requirements, pondered
ways and means for providing the badly needed audi-
torium. |

MR. and MRS. ELBERT W. G. BOOGHER, ’02,
and three children and CHARLES REYNOLDS, ’14,
of Merchantsville, N. J., were recent visitors to Lex-
ington.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINI:

LOCAL EDUCATORS HONORED IN VIR-
GINIA ACADEMY MEETING

Dr. W. M. Brown, ’15, was elected president of
the Virginia Academy of Science during the sixth an-
nual meeting of this body at the College of William
and Mary on Friday and Saturday, May 4 and 5. Dr.
Brown who is the head of the department of Educa-
tion and Psychology at Washington and Lee, was a
speaker at the sectional meeting of this department of
the academy.

Washington and Lee was further honored by the
election of Dr. R. H. Tucker from the Commerce
school to the presidency of the Virginia section of the
National Social Service Association. The state So-
cial Service Association held its assembly in conjunc-
tion with that of the Virginia Academy of Science.

Many Washington and Lee men were speakers et
the sectional meetings of the various science groups:

Dr. W. D. Hoyt tor te Biotosy section: Prof. OF
H. Stow for the Geology section; Dr. L. J. Desha for
the Virginia section of the American Chemical So-
ciety, and Dr. W. M. Brown for the Psychology and
American section.

G. W. Dunnington, a student at Washington and
Lee, spoke before the section of Astronomy on the
“Contributions of Cause to Astronomy.”

Dr. H. D. Campbell and Professor Stow aided in
the formation of a Geology section for the academy.

Among the Washington and Lee faculty members
present, besides those already mentioned were: H. CG.
Funkhouser, Mr. Selvage, R. P. Carroll, R. G. Mc-
Dorman and W. F. Bailey.

oe
%

“BILL” BROWN, ’12

William M. Brown, B.A. 712, M.A. 714, Ph.D. Co-
lumbia, professor of Education and Psychology, voca-
tional guide, curator of Lee relics, active fraternal or-
der secretary, precise speaker, busy beaver of the Fac-
ulty, was elected president of the Virginia Academy of
Science; spoke before the Virginia Teachers Associa-
tion at Lynchburg, before the Southern Society of
Psychology at V. M. I., delivered the Commencement
address at Randolph-Macon Academy, Bedford, Va.,
went here and there to fill other speaking engagements,
retired for a short vacation at Montreat, N. C.

se ee gs
¢

LEXINGTON ROTARY CLUB ELECTS
DIRECTORS

The Lexington Rotary club elected Stuart Moore,
15, E. L. Graham, 77 Seott Taeer Prot. R. H.
Tucker, T. B. Shackleford, and M. W. Paxton, Jr.,
"18, as directors who with the retiring president, B.
FE. Vaughan, will make up the board for the coming
year. Stuart Moore was elected president of the club.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Faculty Introductions—W. G. Bean

There are three native Alabamians connected with
Washington and Lee. Now there are to be only two,
for able Dr. B. A. Wooten, Professor of Physics, now
follows the trail once blazed toward the University oi
Alabama by one-time President George H. Denny.
Your Alumni Secretary and Dr. W. G. Bean remain io
uphold Alabama’s traditions on the Washington and
Lee campus.

Dr. Bean graduated at the University of Alabama
just three years after Dr. Denny had assumed the
presidency there. Possibly it was thus that he was in-
fluenced toward Washington and Lee. But he taught
for a while in various Alabama schools and then went
to Harvard to work for a Doctor’s Degree. His stud-
ies were interrupted by the War when army service
claimed him for sixteen months in France as a com-
missioned officer.

He received the degrees of Master of Arts and
Doctor of Philosophy at Harvard. History is_ his
forte. He came to Washington and Lee as assist-
ant in History in 1922; was made associate Pro-
fessor in 1923; was acting head of the History de-
partment during the year’s leave of absence of Dr.
F,. L. Riley in 1925-26.

During the summer months Dr. Bean has taught
at Tulane, Virginia, and Alabama Universities. He
is a Phi Beta Kappa, Phi Gamma Delta and a Ma-
sen; a member of the Baptist church. Last spring
he surprised his friends by slipping away at Com-
mencement to Pittsburgh, Penna., where he was mar-
ried to Miss Lucy Burns Marsteller.

Terse, taciturn, quietly efficient, independent, inter-
esting, well informed, Dr. Bean capably teaches Huro-
pean History and conducts a class in. contemporary

 

Dr. W. G. BEAN

One of three Alabamians

History and World Problems for Washington and Lee
students. His chief recreation is handball in which
sport he is an acknowledged master at the gymnasium
courts. He is also an ardent football and baseball fan
—What Alabamian isn’t?

 

 

STUDENTS HOLD MOCK DEMOCRATIC
CONVENTION

During national election years since 1912 it has
been the custom of Washington and Lee student
bodies to hold a mock party convention for the nomina-
tion of a United States presidential candidate.

At the 1912 convention Judson Harmon, of Ohio,
was nominated for president and Robert L. Owen,
‘77, for vice-president. The convention of 1916 was
Republican. Charles Evans Hughes and Miles Poin-
dexter, 96, were the nominees. Due to the disorgani-
zation following the War a convention was not held
here in 1920. However, in 1924 John W. Davis, ’92,
95, and Senator Carter Glass were the student
nominees.

This year according to custom, a holiday was de-
clared, State delegations chosen, a temporary chair-
man selected. E. H. Miller, student body president,

delivered the keynote speech. Joseph M. Holt was
elected permanent chairman. ‘The student orchestra
played, banners were paraded. State delegations
made partizan demonstrations. Chairman Holt

flayed the present Republican administration. Vari-

ous nominations were made with appropriate
speeches; ballots taken. State delegations, piqued,
withdrew in a huff; banners were torn down; a
Smith-Ritchie-Reed deadlock was announced and
the convention adjourned for the day.

With another holiday rapidly passing, delegates
got together; listened to manipulating leaders. On
the seventeenth ballot, Governor A. E. Smith of
New York was nominated. Georgia Senator W. F.
George was chosen as his running mate.

Practically every student participated. Pains were
taken to conduct the convention exactly like the reg-
ular national affairs. Wise observers commented
“a lasting lesson in practical politics.”

oe THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Sisee Educutiediel Problems far Washington and Lee Alumni to Think Over

By PresipEntT Henry Louis SmitH.

In the last issue of the ALUMNI MacazineE I took
for my message “How Twentieth-Century Under-
graduate Training Differs from the College Course of
our Fathers.’ I endeavored to prove that the sym-
bolic and abstract mental gymnastics of the under-
graduate curriculum of fifty years ago are wholly un-
fitted to prepare the swarming American students of
today for the tasks and problems of 20th Century
American Life.

As a professional teacher, and for over twenty-five
years Chairman of teaching faculties, I am increasingly
dissatisfied with the ideals, the methods, the controlling
purposes, and the enforced curricula of the usual un-
dergraduate training enforced by our historic South-
ern institutions on all applicants for a “general college
training’ usually rewarded by an A.B. degree. This
A.B. curriculum which all are compelled to take (and
to a slightly less extent the B.S. curriculum which is
allowed as a substitute) is in my judgment not only
utterly inadequate for present-day needs and harm-
fully theoretical, but is also based on outgrowth ideals
of undergraduate “education” and is fitted for a stu-
dent-body which no longer exists on the American
campus.

Let me in this article, which must be too short for
any full discussion, make three assertions and let every
_ degree-holder who is struggling with practical life-
problems and life-tasks which his undergraduate col-
lege course didn’t recognize or prepare him for spend
an hour of careful and progressive Thinking on these
three statements :

1. A typical young American after his eight years
of high school and college “education” must, let us
suppose, at once take charge of a thousand-acre farm.
If during his high-school and college course he is com-
pelled to specialize on foreign syntax and advanced
math and ancient history, and finishes his course with
no knowledge of soil-chemistry or plant-growth or
machinery or business administration or account-keep-
ing, isn’t his “education” an unwise sacrifice of the
individual and his future career to an outgrown and
harmful tradition? | |

To speak in more general terms; Is the controlling
aim of the undergraduate college course of today to
prepare these swarms of young Americans for further
study or for effective and successful American Citizen-
ship ?

2. What should be the leading characteristic, the
most valued trait and qualification, of a professor
whose business is to teach undergraduate classes of
young Americans preparing for the competitive rush
of American life and business? Shall it be a pas-
sionate devotion to a certain line of Knowledge, a con-

suming zeal for advanced Research, a fixed determina-
tion to. add to the sum-total of human knowledge?
Or shall the undergraduate Teacher be distinguishes

‘for his interest in individual. human beings, their char-

acter, training, and possibilities? Ought not his zeal
in studying his “department” be motivated and kept
white-hot by his desire to utilize its truths and train-
ing to make these immature Americans the educated
leaders of our competitive age, not leaders in his nar-
row specialty but in American politics and business and
finance and manufactures?

The leading, controlling, dominant Aim of the four-
year undergraduate course of today is to prepare
young Americans for Life not for specialized research
or graduate study.

3. American education since the World War has
experienced an unprecedented outburst of zeal, ex-
pansion, and liberality, never equaled in America, or
for that matter in the history of human civilization.
Never in the United States have our young people been
so universally and so thoroughly “educated” in matters
of the intellect. Never has our land been so filled
with high-school and college “graduates” as it is to-
day.

Who could have predicted or even imagined that
these years of unprecedented education should have
ushered in an era of unprecedented crime; that these
trained Americans should so largely dedicate their ex-
pert knowledge to murder, highway robbery, and de-
flant crime; that today there are more crimes of vio-
lence in our American cities than in Sicily or the Balk-
ans, while gang-warfare and gang-murders mock our
elaborate police system and fill the front page of every
morning paper?

This appalling combination of American education
and American crime is to my mind not only our most
urgent civic problem but is also the severest and most
unanswerable indictment of our whole system of
American education, for it is in the schools and col-
leges of America that our American civilization is
moulded and created.

Our boasted American Education seems ineffective
or positively harmful in its most vital point. What is:
its fatal weakness?

As one whose whole life has been devoted to Ameri-
can education let me express my utter condemnation of
a leading educational tradition however “sacred” that
tradition may seem to my fellow educators.

Every worthy American citizen, whether Protestant
or Catholic, Jew or Agnostic, Fundamental or Pro-
gressive, orthodox or liberal or indifferent, believes
with all his heart that every single young American of

every class, race, and type should be carefully trained

(Continued on page 24)

 

THE AIL.UMNI MAGAZINE 23

Baseball :

Interest in baseball was considerably revived by the
formation of a Tri-State Intercollegiate baseball lea-
gue. The Generals fought hard to bring the first sea-
son’s pennant home for Coach Dick Smith, 715, or-
ganizer of the league. Their best efforts brought
about a tie with the University of North Carolina for
second place in the standing of the six participating
clubs.

Crushing were the two defeats administered by the
University of Virginia nine, ancient and_ traditional
foe, encouraging was the showing against V. P. I. and
the University of North Carolina, always close rivals.

There was an improvement in team fielding, a slight
let-down in team batting and the usual good pitching
in evidence during the 1928 season. Marked was the
showing of one “Hank” Slanker, sophomore center-
fielder, of Osterman, relief pitcher, and of “Horse”
Tips, hard hitting veteran catcher and outfielder; of
“Johnny” Jones, pinch-hitting catcher; and of Captain
Paul Folliard, pitching ace.

Feature wins were registered against the University
of North Carolina, 1 to 0, with Folliard allowing the
opponents only five hits and against V. P. I, 4 to 1,
with Osterman yielding only five hits. Feature losses
were recorded against Virginia. In the home game
only two hits and no runs were made off the Cavalier
hurler and in the game at Charlottesville the Generais
were bested 3 to 1. Virginia won the league pennant.

The Generals won nine of the seventeen games
played during the season. Results were as follows:

Catholic University, O—W. & L., 4;
Cornell University, 2—W. & L., 5;
Duke University, 5—W. & L., 2;
Duke University, 1O—W. & L., 12;
W. & L., 1—N. CBee,

 

Dick SMITH

Diamond mentor

 

PAUL FOLLIARD
Pitcher-captain, 1928

W. & L., 6—U. of N. C., 4;
Richmond University, 6—W. & L., 1;
U. of N.C. 0] Wim La 1;

W- & LL. 3-8. Poa: A:

U. of Va., 3—W. & L., 0;

W. & L., 7—Maryland, 0;
Maryland, 5—.W & L,, 2;
N.C. State, 2_W, & L.., 4;

U. S. Marines, 3—W. & L., 2;
William & Mary, 1—W. & L., 8;
VP. 1. 1-—W. & 1a:
W.&L., 1—U. of Va., 3.

o,
pia aaNecae there eS
ef

WHITE CAPTAIN OF 1929 GENERALS’
NINE

Gene White, second-baseman of the 1928 varsity
baseball squad, was elected to lead the General ball
tossers in 1929. White was elected by those who
earned their monogram this season after the com-
pletion of the schedule.

White was a freshman in the law school last ses-
sion, having entered the commerce school for two
years. He alternated with Figelbach at third last
season and was shifted to second this year where
he handled himself in finished style. White is from
New Mexico, a member of the Phi Kappa Psi social
fraternity and Omicron Delta Kappa honorary fra-
ternity.

 

2s ee a
¢

999 OTHERS

Your subscription to the MacaziIng~ will enable
the publishers to issue it monthly. Send in your sub-
scription today—only one thousand new subscriptions
are necessary.

 

GENE WHITS
Captain-elect

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THREE GENERAL BASEBALL MEN TO BIG
LEAGUE

Paul Folliard and H. S. (Babe) Spotts, for the past
three years regulars on the Washington and Lee Gen-
eral’s baseball team signed contracts to perform with
the St. Louis Cardinals of the National League. And
B.B. (Horse) Tips, was sought by a major league club.

Folliard and Spotts left Lexington immediately af-
ter Finals for the Cards. It is doubtful if these two
players will remain on the Cardinals roster the re-
mainder of the year as it is likely that they will be
sent to one of the St. Louis farms for seasoning.

Folliard has been the leading hurler of the Blue and
White for the past three years and with his departure
the Generals lose one of the best and most consistent
hurlers to represent Washington and Lee.. He has a
change of pace, a fast ball and a breaking curve. He
was the leading pitcher all three years that he per-
formed for the Blue and White, and was elected to
captain the 1928 machine. |

Spotts came to Washington and Lee in the fall of
1924 and made the frosh football, basketball, and base-
ball teams. ‘The next year he stepped into the varsity
ranks of all three sports and played regularly. He is
a first baseman. 3

Last year Spotts led the team in hitting and his So-
phomore year was among the leaders. He is a clever
fielder, utilizing his height to great advantage.

Tips broke into the regular lineup his sophomore
year as a catcher and has been doing most of the re-
ceiving since. He has promise of developing into a
major league catcher of the highest rank, according to
several major league scouts who have watched his play
during the present season. This year “Horse’’ led the
willow swingers and was high in the standing last
year.

This is the first time since Gus Lindberg left school
in 1925 that a general has signed a major league con-
tract.

 

 

SWIMMING

Student mer-men, coached..hy&, P. Twombly, met
the tank team of Duke University, owtpointed them
in the series of acquatic events; met the University of
Virginia, came out with the small end of the score;
met and defeated Catholic University, 45-15. O. Nor-
ris Smith, Junior student, son of President Smith,
lowered the University record for the 220 yard free
style swim to 2 min. 29 sec. “Rod” Moffatt, Junior
from Shanghai, China, starred with Smith. :

¢,
—____—_—_¢
o

 

Make monthly publication of the MacazINE pos-
sible; send in your subscription today; rates $2.50
per year, $4.00 for two years.

SIXTY MONOGRAMS AND NUMERALS
GIVEN TO ’VARSITY AND FROSH

Sixty monograms and numerals were awarded for
work in basketball, boxing, wrestling, gymnastics and
swimming by the Athletic council. ‘The council is
giving serious consideration to a proposal by Coach
Mathis of the wrestling team whereby a member of
the grappling crew may receive a major monogram
for his work in that sport.

The monograms were awarded as follows: Varsity
basketball; Captain Spotts, Kiglebach, Lowry, White,
Elbert, Wood, Groop, Howe, Joynes and Manager
Alderson.

Varsity wrestling: Captain Seligman, Hughes,
Bolton, Madison, Tully, Davis, Thompson, Gresham
and Manager Godwin. Varsity swimming: Captain
Smith, Moffatt, Cooke, Strahorn, Ferrell. Gym-
nastics: Coleman, Stuart and Griffis.

Freshman numerals were awarded as _ follows:
Basketball: Captain Williams, Cox, Hanna, Pilley,
Faulkner, Jacob, Freeman and Scott. Boxing: Noyes,
Cloud, Palmer, Lynn, Grenshaw, ‘Tallyn, Faulkner.
Wrestling: Barkus, Bowes, Gresham, Kaplin, Palmer,
Gautier, Sutherland, Lewis, Flagg, Clark. Swim-
ming: Jancke, Zachery, Harbeson, Martin, Luria,
Burn and Lynn.

EE OR OS es

SOME EDUCATIONAL PROBLEMS
(Continued from page 22)

to speak the truth, to be honest, reliable, and honorable
in all business transactions, to be fair and just and
generous and kindhearted, to be moral and pure-minded
and chaste and self-controlled, and to form in his
youth the habit of brotherhood, of community-action,
and of organized self-government for the common
welfare.

Yet where in any college or university will you find
these truths recognized, this urgent civic duty per-
formed, these “Departments” of instruction placed in
any curriculum or catalogue, these experts in human
behavior either trained in or employed by our Ameti-
can universities, or this sorely needed and most vital.
part of American Education given anywhere to the
Rulers and Makers of the America of Tomorrow? We
spend billions and employ millions to train the Intel-
lect, but leave Character-training out of the curric-
ulum. Our whole nation allows itself to be blinded
and misled by a tradition that tax-money and tax-
supported schools must leave to accidental agencies the
Moral Training of our future citizens.

——____¢
6°

 

SAMUEL B. KIRBY, JR. 22 af Frank fort,
Ky., was appointed an assistant Attorney General on
January 2, 1928.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

BYRD PRAISES SMITH’S EFFORT FOR
BASEBALL

The recently formed South Atlantic Collegiate
Baseball league and its founder, Coach R. A. Smith,
15, were highly praised in a recent article in the
Washington Star by H. C. (“Curly”) Byrd, athletic
director at Maryland University.

In the article Byrd points out the manner in
which the popularity of collegiate baseball is rapidly
dying and the extreme danger of it becoming extinct
in a not-so-distant future. He tells how Coach
Smith saw the impending danger, called a confer-
ence of the coaches of the larger South Atlantic
colleges at Lynchburg last May and presented his
proposed plans, and how, by his untiring efforts, he
carried the project through to completion.

Byrd states that he believes the new organization
will furnish the element necessary to return base-
ball to the position of importance it once held among
the colleges.

The league is composed of Maryland University,
Vv. P. 1, Ve. ML, Wasiiestg ae Lee, North
Carolina, North Carolina State. Each team meets
the other twice during every season.

e
—__—__—__¢
x

GOLLUF

The ancient Scottish pastime of cow-pasture pool is
now an intercollegiate sport. Washington and Lee has
a Golf team. Ona Southern trip they won from
Duke University, 12-5; lost to the University of N.
C., 8-4, and to Davidson College, 15-13. Now recog-
nized as a minor sport, monograms are awarded for
winning proficiency in Golf.

>,
ee
?

LUTHER H. REDCAY, ’27, is Front Office
Manager of the Hotel Oceanic of Ocean City, N. J.

 

 

TRACK

Wilson Field was a sweat shop during the spring
track season. Students worked hard under Coach
Forest Fletcher. Rubber tires and gasoline, dates and
dances, leisure and luxury, are doing much to dis-
semble the University function as a builder of men.
Not so on Wilson Field, where perspiring track ca‘1-
didates work; where heavy football men sweat off
weight in spring practice; where baseball aspirants
gingerly measure their gaits to meet the oncoming
small white spheres.

True, the season’s results were not so encouraging.
Meets were lost to the University of Virginia, to Duke
and to V. P. I. and a meet won from the University of
Richmond. But to be encouraged are the efforts of
Coach Fletcher to make Track an interesting and
popular sport, to create a winning combination from a
dirth of material, to whip mediocre material into shape,
to combat gin, gas and gender with athletic training.
To be encouraged are the students who go out for
places in the various track events, who keep training
in the face of defeats; who fight to the last for cinder
victories for Washington and Lee. )

°

TENNIS

The Generals Net team defeated Johns Hopkins, 5
to 4; on a northern tour won over Catholic University,
7 to 0; lost to George Washington University, 4 to 3;
lost to Penn. State College, 4 to 3; overcame New
York University, 4 to 3; were defeated by Lehigh
University, 7 to 0. Then the Blue and White rac-
queteers went to Charlottesville to lose to the U. of
Va., 6 to 3; back home they met and defeated V. P.
I.,6to 1. The tennis team is coached by Prof. Clay-
ton EF. Williams, 12. The work of E. H. Miller and
Harold Dobbs featured the season’s play.

 

CoAcH FLETCHER
“Works hard”

Gin, Gas and Gender Combatted

E. P. Davis
Asst. Coach

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“Scurvy Inck” Baseball Game Recorded

An item in the “News of Fifty Years Ago” de-
partment of the Lexington Gazette recorded the
visit of the Washington and Lee baseball team of
1878 to Charlottesville. The famous victory called
for a little investigation. The item gave the score
of 12 to O and the personnel of the Washington and
Lee team. This was the year when the first college

curve ball pitching was used and the first college |

pitcher to use it was George Sykes of the W. & L.
team. W. M. McElwee, ’79, now president of the
‘Peoples National Bank of Lexington, was the
catcher and he has furnished us with some data as

to the members of the team and a copy of the South-

ern Collegian giving an account of the game.

Mr. McElwee says that six members of the team
are still living. W. S. Hopkins, Lexington, died in
recent years and A. W. Gaines and Pat Davidson
are dead. W. B. McCluer, retired real estate op-
erator, is living in Chicago; Arch M. Robinson, re-
tired capitalist, Louisville, Ky.; J. F. Bullitt, at-
torney for large coal operators, Philadelphia, Pa.;
Dr. Edward Randell, prominent physician, Galves-
ton, Texas; Geo. A. Sykes, dealer in manufacturers’
supplies, Atlanta, Ga.

The use of the curve ball was characterized by the
University of Virginia journal of that day as “the
scurviest trick that was ever perpetrated in base-
ball.” :

The following account of the game is from the
Southern Collegian of June 1, 1878:

“Bullitt won the toss and the W. & L. nine took
the field at 3:47 P. M. ‘The first innings resulted in
a whitewash for both nines.

“In the second innings the University of Va.
nine went out in order. For W. & L. McElwee led
off by sending the ball over the left field fence and
scoring a home run. On Robinson and Sykes’ base

hits, and errors by the fielding nine one more run —

was made this inning.

“In the third innings W. & L. scored three more
runs on Gaines and Bullitt’s two basers, and singles
by Davidson and McElwee. Fielding errors pre-
vented either of the runs being earned. University
of Va. went out in one, two, three order.

“In the fourth innings, four runs were made by
We 4,

“The fifth innings gave a zero to each nine.

“The sixth innings resulted in two runs for W.
& L., who also made one in the seventh.

“The eighth innings were another whitewash for
each side.

“In the ninth innings the prospect of a run for
the University of Va. was best. Ogg led off with a

base hit and Cooper got first by an error of Robin-
son’s. This put two on bases with no hand out.
This was the first time second base had _ been
reached by the University of Va. Jeffries, the next
man at bat, struck out. McElwee muffed his third
strike and forced Ogg at third. Pleasants followed
Jeffries’ example, and this time McElwee succeeded
in making a double play. The W: & L. nine opened
the second half of this inning with two safe hits,
but followed them up with three outs, closing the
game with the score of 12 to 0 in favor of Wash-
ington and Lee University.

“The chief features of the game were Sykes’
curves, which completely bewildered his opponents,
and the excellent catching of McElwee, who put out
sixteen and assisted twice, with but one error. The
field play of both nines was far above the general
average of amateurs.

“For the University of Va. Porcher, Dulaney
and McKennie did the best work, each playing with-
out an error, and made some very difficult plays.
On the side of W. & L. McCluer, Randall, David-
son, and Sykes, played without error. The outfield-
ers had nothing to do, so they were unable to show

_ off except at the bat, where Gaines took the lead

with three two-base hits.”

Ae

PARKER W. BUHRMAN, 717, ASSIGNED
TO CONSULATE WORK

The State Department has assigned Consul Parker
W. Buhrman of Botetourt, Va., to the American con-
sulate at Berlin, Germany.

Buhrman has been on duty at the State Department,
Washington, D. C., since 1925. He is a graduate of
the W. & L,. Law School and from 1916 to 1918 prac-
ticed Law in Botetourt County. He entered the con-
sular service in 1918 and has served Malmo, Helings-
fors, Ceiba, Surabaya and Aleppo.

—%y

PORTRAIT OF HELM BRUCE, ’80, GIVEN
TO COUNTY

 

 

A portrait of the late Helm Bruce, ’80, was presented
to Jefferson County, Kentucky, at the request of the
Fiscal Court by Mrs. Bruce, widow, and is now hung
in the joint sessions room of the Circuit Court. Judge
Thomas R. Gordon, ’72, made the presentation and
eulogized Mr. Bruce as lawyer, citizen and churchman.

fe
ea ENT

Make monthly publication of the MacazINE pos-
sible; send in your subscription today; rates $2.50
per year, $4.00 for two years.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

27

1928 Grid Prospects

Little can be definitely adduced from the Spring
Training Season about Football prospects for next
Fall. Coaches and players worked hard on a system of
new plays and will report early in September to polish
them off.

The Generals lose many of their 1927 mainstays by
way of graduation or ineligibility. The greatest loss
will be felt in the line where there is little surplus for
re-enforcement. Gone will be Captain Tips, power-
ful guard, Latham, center, Fisher, tackle, Dorsey,
Spotts and Eiglebach ends. In the backfield Howe
and Stearns will be missed.

Returning for service will be Captain Fitzpatrick,
potent tackle, Groop, guard or center, Hawkins, tackle,
Snodgrass, center, and Sproul, end. In the backfield
will be Gene White, quarter and line plunging ace,
Barnett, full, Lott, field general and versatile half and
Eberhardt, half. Scrubs and Freshmen from last year
will be whipped into shape for the gaps. Most likely
prospects are Towill and Faulkner, ends, Hughes and
Spivey, tackles, Stemmons, Madison and Moffett,
guards, Holstein, center and Cohen, Thibodeau, and
Jacob, backs.

In addition to the problem of manufacturing will
be the creation of an effective “espirit de corps’ or
unified team morale by the coaches.

The schedule for 1928 is unusually difficult. The
University of Maryland will be played on the Satur-
day preceding Thanksgiving, a date heretofore left
open. Home-coming day will be Nov. 17, when the
Generals engage the V. P. I. Gobblers on Wilson
Field.

¢

THE vv"

Quietly efficient, “Y” Secretary C. Houston Pat-

terson, ’19, has greatly increased the range of serv-
ice of the student religious body. He reports work
by students on church and University cooperation,
with deputation teams, with Lexington small boys,
with the college freshmen; the holding of social
functions and religious meetings, the collection of
about $1,000 in gifts, the net proceeds of $118.89
from the publication of the Y. M. C. A. handbook.

Concluding his report Mr. Patterson voices a per-
tinent and vital problem, saying, “How to make
Christ real and a great motivating urge in the lives
cf young men who claim to be Christians is one of
the major problems that the thinking men among
the students and faculty should consider most
gravely.”

2 ee
°

Make monthly publication of the MacazINE pos-
sible; send in your subscription today; rates $2.50
per year, $4.00 for two years.

 

Biiuy Lorr

“Par” HERRON
Grid Coach

FITZPATRICK
Grid Captain

Mainstay

1928 SCHEDULE

Sept. 29—Lynchburg College (Here)

Oct. 6—North Carolina State (Here)

Oct. 13—Kentucky (Lexington, Ky.)

Oct. 20—West Virginia (Charleston)

Oct. 27—Tennessee (Knoxville)

Nov. 3—Virginia (Charlottesville)

Nov. 10.—Princeton (There)

Nov. 17—V. P. I. HOME-COMING (Here)
Nov. 24—Maryland (Washington)

Nov. 29—Florida (Jacksonville)

Se
¢

MORE ROMANTIC RUMORS

Will Janet Gaynor marry an actor, or an attorney?

Honestly we don’t believe that Janet has any plans
regarding marriage, but at various times her name has
been linked with that of Charles Farrell and, more re-
cently, we hear that a San Francisco lawyer is very
attentive. His name is Lydell Peck, ’23.

What is most interesting about this romance, if it
be a romance, is that Peck first became interested in
Janet on the screen. He talked enthusiastically about
her to some mutual friends, and they volunteered to
introduce them. ‘This is the way the story goes, at any
rate.

Janet Gaynor rose to the zenith of her triumphs in
“Seventh Heaven.”

Ca 5 Os
°

DR. RANDOLPH T. SHIELDS, ’98, imedical
missionary of the Presbyterian church in Shantung
University, China, is a visitor in Lexington. During
commencement he was initiated into the Phi Beta
Kappa fraternity.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

SOUTHERN COLLEGIAN REVIVED

Published as the “Periwig’” by a small but earnest
group of English students a periodical has been
started which will hereafter be entitled The Southern
Collegian, the medium for the literary expression of
Washington and Lee students for many generations
past.

The Collegian was established in 1868 as a semi-
monthly publication by S$. Z. Ammen and C. R.
Breckenridge. During the session of 1871-72 it pub-
lished some of the first works of Thomas Nelson Page.
The name was changed to The Southern Collegian
and the paper reduced to magazine form with a
monthly publication. ‘The Santini medal was awarded
for the best essay published each year.

Until the World War the Southern Collegian main-
tained its popularity. Meanwhile the Ring-tum Phi
gained ascendency as the campus news medium. In-
terest in things literary waned, support weakened and
in 1917 the Southern Collegian was discontinued for
lack of financial support.

The first issue of the revived publication appeared
at Commencement. It contained, among other in-
teresting features, a play by T. E. Harris, ’24. It is
announced that six issues will be published next year.
Many alumni have written to student manager H.
Graham Morrison to express their approval and en-
dorsement. Subscriptions may be directed to him at
Lexington.

‘ee
ey

WASHINGTON AND LEE STUDENT BODY
ELECTS OFFICERS

John Bell Towill of Batesburg, S. C., was elected
president of the Washington and Lee student body for
1928-29 at the annual spring elections. Harry C.
Rand of Washington, D. C., was elected vice-presi-
dent. H. P. Johnston, of Uniontown, Ala., received
the editor-ship of the Ring-tum Phi.

Other officers elected were: W. M. Hinton, Paris,
Ky., secretary and treasurer of the student body;
George Lanier, West Point, Ga., president of 1929
finals; I’. G. Gibson, Bristol, Tenn., president of 1929
Fancy Dress Ball; A. B. Morgan, Memphis, Tenn.,
business manager of the Ring-tum Phi; W. A. Plum-
mer, Portsmouth, O., editor of The Mink; James
Salinger, New York City, business manager of The
Mink; C. C. Hutchinson, Caspiana, La., editor of The
Calyx; E. H. Ould, Roanoke, Va., business manager
of The Calyx, and H. Graham Morrison, Johnson
City, Tenn., cheer leader.

 

¢

DR. TEMPLETON ADAIR, ’01, of Mt. Hope,
West Va., was recently in Lexington visiting his par-
ents, Mr. and Mrs. J. McD. Adair. ;

A NEW CEREMONY

Students assembled at the Doremus gymnasium,
auditorium pro tempore, settled themselves as com-
fortably as possible, prepared to hear an “address.”

Instead, they heard Joseph M. Holt, student, presi-
dent of the local and parent chapter of the Omicron
Delta Kappa honorary society, define the aims and
purposes of that organization, announce that students
chosen for membership would be designated by the
tap of a wand at that assembly.

Students, intrigued, leaned forward; saw three
student members of the Society pass among the
audience, quietly tap the chosen ones with a blue and
white beribboned wand; applauded each individual
choice.

Highteen students and one alumnus, James R.
Caskie, 06-09, were thus informed of their election;
assembled at the platform to be greeted and congratu-
lated by President Henry Louis Smith, heard him
talk briefly upon the responsibilities of leadership,
took seats facing the audience as picked and recog-
nized leaders of the Washington and Lee campus.
One alumnus, John W. Davis, 792, 795, chosen, could
not be present.

The Omicron Delta Kappa Honorary Fraternity
for the recognition of student leadership in scholar-
ship, athletics, general campus affairs, publications and
torensic and literary work, was founded at Washing-
ton and Lee in 1914. Chapters have been established
at twenty-four other colleges.

The new tapping ceremony should add distinction
tc membership, zest to student interest, dignity to
election.

Sea Mg

SAYS COLLEGES ARE RUINING YOUNG
MEN

“In this day and time our institutions of learning
are ruining more young men than anything else in the
world,” declared Rev. Cary Barker, ’10, evangelist, who
conducted a series of meetings at Grace Baptist
Church, Richmond, and who in a sermon recently as-
sailed the modernistic tendency in the schools and
colleges, according to the Richmond News-Leader.

Evangelist Barker charged that in Virginia recently
one of the most outstanding modernists of the day was
permitted to speak in local and state colleges.

“T wish I could find some big words to use some-
times when intellectual nonenties try to strip Jesus
Christ of his deity,” Mr. Barker declared. He claimed
that “the trouble of today is that we are walking by
sight and not by faith.” |

—_—_——__4,
"

 

L. B. DUTROW, 710, of Petersburg, Va., is Di-
rector of Public Safety of the City of Petersburg.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

The Law School

Dean W. H. MoreELanp, ’06

The Law School during the session just concluded
showed a slight increase over the attendance of the
previous year, with one hundred and fourteen students
matriculated. Professors Raymon ‘I. Johnson and
Charles R. McDowell were added to the teaching
force to fill vacancies and both have proved to be most
acceptable additions to the law faculty. We have
steadily maintained the high standards both for ad-
mission to the school and for work therein. With our
relatively small attendance we have ample oppor-
tunity to become well acquainted with each student, to
give personal direction to his work and friendly as-
sistance in its successful completion. We are deeply
interested in each and every one of them and earnestly
solicitous for his success.

Our constant effort is to improve and _ strengthen
the course, doing more efficient work ourselves and
demanding more thorough and scholarly work from
our students. It is our intention to turn out a better
rather than a more numerous product and we believe
we are succeeding.

The most urgent needs of the school at this time are:
first, another full-time member of the teaching force
and, second, funds with which to make additions to our
library. The present faculty of five members can
teach effectively only the courses in a rather meagre
and restricted curriculum. Practically all schools ot
our standing have a more numerous faculty. With
another teacher we should be able to add courses to
the curriculum which would enable our students io
make some elections that would suit the needs and
plans in individual instances and in every way give us
a more valuable law course.

While we have a very good working library which
more than meets the requirement of the Association
of American Law Schools, it is far from what we may
reasonably desire to make it. We lack the reports of
several of the states; our collection of text books is
meagre and out of date; we have just begun to as-
semble the codes and statutes of the various states,
and there are many reference sets which we should
have.

Through the generosity of alumni and others, do-
nations have been made in the past year which have

enabled us to make considerable additions to the li- |

brary and we hope there may be a continuance of that
generosity.

We believe we have a law school that our alumni and
friends have every right to be proud of and we are
confident that no school has made greater sacrifices io
serve the cause of sound legal education or has with
greater integrity adhered to the high standards it has
set for its work.

 

TUCKER HALL

“Scene of most productive service”

FORENSIC

A student debating team argued that New York
Governor, Alfred E. Smith, should not be elected
United States President, against the team of the Uni-
versity of Alabama at the Lee Chapel. The audience
voted for Washington and Lee and against Governor

‘Smith.

Against the University of Florida here the Wash-
ington and Lee debaters argued that the United States
cease to protect by armed force the investment ot
capital in foreign lands except by formal declaration
of war. ‘The audience decided in favor of interven-
tion and the ‘Gator’ presentation.

On a northern tour the Washington and Lee team
argued with representatives of Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity at Baltimore for the abandonment of the
practice of armed intervention in Latin America, won
in Washington, D. C., against the American Uni-
versity they upheld the affirmative on the same ques-
tion, lost. ,

At Richmond,. Va., Harold M. Platt, representing
Washington and Lee, won the thirty-eighth Virginia
intercollegiate oratorical contest on Friday, May 4th.
His subject was “Who is to Blame”’—a study of
political corruption in the United States. Previously
at Richmond, Joseph Clower, W. & L., won the elim-
ination contest to represent Virginia in the National
oratorical contest on the Constitution. ©

See

THE CORNER, INC., MAKES ASSIGNMENT

 

The Corner, Inc., made an assignment for the bene-
fit of its creditors during June. ‘The deed of trust
which names C. S. Glasgow as trustee lists assets at
$33,178.14 and liabilities at $51,546.61. Included in
the liabilities is $24,300.00 in capital stock. It ap-
pears, therefore, from the statement that in the liqui-
dation the company will be able to meet its obligations
excepting the capital stock.

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Prep and High School Press Convention

Editors of High and Preparatory school publica-
tions convened at Lexington under the auspices of the
Washington and Lee Memorial School of Journalism,
met for discussion, submitted their papers, magazines
and annuals for prize competition, banqueted on Vir-
ginia ham generously donated by P. D. Gwaltney, Jr.,
23, of Smithfield, Va., and M. S. McCoy of Lexing-
ton, ate other “Virginia-grown foods,’ returned
home with memories of fraternity-house life; with
prizes, honorable mention or valued criticism.

It was reported that one hundred and nine delegates
attended from forty-four schools and representing
seventy-six publications. ‘The following prizes were
awarded: )

NEWSPAPER AWARDS.

Class A. First Prize. “Sky High,’ Asheville high
school, Asheville, N. C. Honorable mention. “High
Life,’ Greensboro high school, Greensboro, N. C.
“Raleigh Student,” Hugh Morson high school, Raleigh,
N. C. “The Tattler,’ Huntington high school, Hunt-
ington, West Va.

Class B. First Prize. “The Chatterbox,’ George
Washington high school, Danville, Va. Honorable men-
tion. “High Times,” E. C. Glass high school, Lynch-
burg, Va. “Hi-Life,’” Columbia high school, Columbia,
S.C. “The Tattler,’ Boys high school, Atlanta, Ga.

’ Class C. First Prize. “The Blue and Gray,”
Weston high school, Weston, West Va. Honorable
mention. “The Meteor,’ Virginia Episcopal school,
Lynchburg, Va. “The Oracle,” Woodberry Forest
school, Woodberry Forest, Va. ‘The Pinnacle,”
Princeton high school, Princeton, W. Va.

MAGAZINE AWARDS.

Class A. First Prize. “Homespun,” Central high
school, Greensboro, N. C.

Class B. First Prize. ‘The Critic,’ E. C. Glass
high school, Lynchburg, Va.

Class C. First Prize. “The Record,’ Robert E.
Lee high school, Staunton, Va.
INpDIvipUAL MERIT AWARDS.

Class A. Harry Burlinghame, McKinley Technical
high school, Washington, D. C.

Class B. J. Mitchell Morse, Columbia high school,
Columbia, S. C.

Class C. Henry EF. Baum, Princeton high school,
Princeton, West Va.
ANNUAL AWARDS.

Class A. “Ia Retama,” Brackenbridge high school,
san Antonio, Texas. Honorable Mention. ‘The Presi-

dent,” Woodrow Wilson high school, Portsmouth,
Va. “El Sombrero,’ Main Avenue high school San
Antonio, Texas.

Class B. First Prize. “Blue and Gold,” S. M. A.,
Staunton, Va. Honorable mention. ‘“Quadruplane,”
Central high school, Jackson, Miss.

Class C. First Prize. “The Fir Tree,’ Woodberry
Forest School, Woodberry Forest, Va. Honorable

mention. “The Comet,’ McCluer high school, Buena
Vista, Va.

\
. PERG,

STUDENTS VOTE FOR CONVERSE
MEDALIST

Ata regular student assembly Alumni Secretary
Verbon EF. Kemp called attention to the annual Con-
verse award for campus citizenship, interpreted the
purposes of the donor, Paul D. Converse, °15, pro-
fessor of Marketing at the University of Illinois, in
offering the award; asked students to vote for no more
than four campus leaders who in their opinion were
the most outstanding all-round campus citizens.

Points were assigned for evaluating first, second,
third and fourth choices, votes were tabulated; Law
student Joseph M. Holt, of Lewisburg, West Va., re-
ceived an overwhelming majority. To him was
awarded at Commencement the prize—$50 in gold.
Honorable mention went to KE. H. Miller, St. Louis,
Mo.; Robert F. Howe, Helena, Ark.; W. J. Dorsey,
Philadelphia, Pa., and J. B. Towill, Batesburg, S. C.

o%
°

DUTY:

AN ORIGINAL ANECDOTE OF Ropert E. LEE

Jo Lane Stern, ’70, now retired Major-General,
Virginia National Guard, entered the Confederate
Service at the age of thirteen as a military telegraph
operator, now a part of the signal service.

When the Army of Northern Virginia took posi-
tion on the North Anna River after the Spotsylvania-
Wilderness Campaign, Operator Stern was on duty
at General Bradley T. Johnson’s headquarters at Han-
over Junction, now Doswell. General Lee established
headquarters across the railroad track. On May 22,
1864, a message came for General Lee, and Operator
Stern delivered the message himself. The General
said, “Wait, I'll write the answer.” Stern, boy like,
volunteered the information that he was the Operator.
General Lee quickly looked up and said, “Ah, return to
your post, Sir; I’ll send the reply to you by a courier.”

},
—_——- 4
ee

 

Make- monthly publication of the Macazine_ pos-
sible; send in your. subscription today; rates $2.50
per year, $4.00 for two years.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE aL

Gift for the Lee Chapel

Valentine’s statue of General Robert E. Lee is
viewed from the auditorium of the Chapel through a
screen of painted wire which fills the entire opening
of the room containing the priceless portraits of Wash-
ington, Lafayette and Lee, as well as the recumbent
statue, and affords the only inside protection from
vandalism and theft.

Mr. Henry E. Litchford, banker of Richmond,
Virginia, volunteered to replace the wire screen and
door with a harmonious grating of Swedish wrought-
iron, attractively designed to admit a better view of
the statue from the Chapel and to afford stronger
protection. Into the grating above an artistic iron
door the Lee coat-of-arms will be wrought. At their
June meeting the Board of Trustees gratefully ac-
cepted the offer.

The grating was planned by the firm of Charles M.
Robinson, Architects, of Richmond, and _ will be
erected during the summer under the supervision of
Treasurer Paul M. Penick and Engineer Hale Hous-
ton. The accompanying photo shows the architect’s
drawing superimposed over the old screen.

Mr. Litchford is a native of North Carolina, a
student of History and world affairs, a devoted ad-
mirer of the life and character of Robert FE. Lee, and
yxecutive Chairman of the Union Bank and Federal
Trust Company of Richmond.

¢

OLD DIPLOMA GIVEN LEE MUSEUM
By Mrs. A. L. ALLEN.

The diploma of a student graduated from the
“ancestor” of Washington and Lee University 140
years ago has been presented to the Lee museum. It
is the “sheepskin” of Dr. Samuel Legrand Campbell,
who passed his “finals” at Liberty Hall Academy,
now Washington and Lee University, in 1788.

It was presented by Mrs. Anna L. Allen, his grand-
daughter. Dr. Campbell was the sixtieth student to
matriculate at Liberty Hall. He became a physician
of Rockbridge county; he was a trustee of Washing-
ton College from 1793 until 1812.

“My object is to place the diploma where it will be
taken care of and preserved,’ Mrs. Allen stated in a
letter to Dr. W. M. Brown, chairman of the Museum
Committee and professor of Education and Psychol-
ogy at Washington and Lee University.

The diploma was signed by William Graham, sec-
ond president of Liberty Hall Academy, William
Wilson, John Wilson, William McKee, John Lyle,
Samuel Houston and Samuel Lyle. It is well pre-
served, having been written in Latin by hand on
tough parchment paper.

 

GiFt—WrovucHt [Ron GRATING

Better view—Stronger protection

NEW PORTRAIT OF ROBERT E. LEE CAN
BE SEEN IN LEE MUSEUM IN LEE
CHAPEL

A framed reproduction in colors of a portrait of
Robert E. Lee, painted by Ellis M. Silvette, of Rich-
mond, is the most recent addition to the Lee historical
museum in the Lee Chapel. It was presented to the
school by the artist himself.

The portrait is of the bust of the Southern chieftain
in the uniform of a general in the Confederate army.
The Reverend Giles B. Cook, the only surviving
member of Lee’s staff, recently viewed this portrait
and said: “It is in every respect, a perfect likeness
of General Lee as I remember him.”

Edward V. Valentine, the sculptor who carved the
recumbent statue of Lee which rests in the mausoleum
above his tomb, has examined Silvette’s painted con-
ception of the great Southerner, and gives it his
enthusiastic approval.

¢ :

C. MERCER McCRUM, ’07, of Birmingham,

Ala., spent a few days during July in his home town,
Lexington. ,

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATES

As announced in the April ALUMNI MaGaZzINE ele-
ven students and eleven alumni were elected to mem-
bership in the Washington and Lee chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa. Of this number, seventeen were initiated
on April 12.

To Lexington for this occasion came Henry W.
Anderson, LL.B. 98, famed lawyer of Richmond,

a.; J. Warren “Um Paul” Bagley, B.S. ’03, Major
U. S. Army Engineers; Stuart Chevalier, LL.B. ’03,
able Manhattan lawyer; Louis S. Epes, LL.B. ’08, of
the Virginia State Corporation Commission; Rt. Rev.
W. G. McDowell, A.B. ’02, Bishop Coadjutor of

Alabama; A. H. Throckmorton, B.L. ’00, professor of

Law and author, Western Reserve University; and C.
C. Tutwiler, A.B. ’96, practical chemist, president of
the Cooper Creek Chemical Co. They assembled with
the undergraduate initiates at the Alumni Building
for the initiation ceremonies.

Unable to be present at the time but initiated at
Commencement were Charles J. Faulkner, LL.B. ’98,
General Counsel of Armour and Company, Chicago,
Ill., and Dr. Randolph Tucker Shields, A.B. ’99, pro-
fessor of Medicine at Shantung Christian University,
China. Yet to be initiated are FE. T. Coman, LL.B.
90, vice-president of the Mercantile Trust Company
of California, and Edgar Sydenstricker, A.B. ’02,
A.M. ’07, statistician of the U. S. Public Health Serv-
ice, Washington, D. C.

Student initiates were: H. M. Barker, LL.B.,
Irvine, Ky.; H. H. Butler, A.B., Miami, Fla.; G. H.
Carr, Jr., A.B., Portsmouth, ee R, J. Haller B.S.
Chem., Giderisbete: Mm Cy R. W. Jordan, LL., Em-
poria, Va.; Joseph Kaplan, B.S. Com., Louisville,
Ky.; E. H. Miller, A.B., St. Louis, Mo.; W. C. Nor-
man, B.S. Com., Crosset, Ark.; A. W. Pierpont, A.B.,
Pensacola, Fla.; J. G. Panic, A.B., St. Louis, Mae
D. 8. Dix, Mobile, Ala.

Their initiation was preceded by a babe address
in the Lee Chapel by Dr. Francis W. Shepardson, vice-
president of the United Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa,
a director of the Julius Rosenwald Fund and presi-
dent of the national organization of Beta Theta Pi,
social fraternity. |

o,
ae

PROF. JOHNSON MARRIED

Professor Raymon ‘I. Johnson of the Washington
and Lee Law faculty arrived in Lexington the first
week in July, accompanied by Mrs. Johnson. Pro-
fessor Johnson and his bride, Miss Mary Lee Cole-
man of Louisville, Ky., were married at Mount
Washington, Ky., June 18th. The ceremony was
performed at the home of the bride’s grandmother.
They will make their home in Monroe Park, Lexing-
ton, Va.

COMPARATIVE STANDING OF THE NA-
TIONAL FRATERNITIES FOR THE
SESSION OF 1927-28

Fraternity Average
Phi Epsilon-Pi. = 78.124
Phi Delta: Theta 222... 2 78.045
Phi Gamma Dela .:. 2.05) 4.1 ge ce 77 A45
Alpha Chi RA@ 2.25. .55045 6 7/146
Pi Kappa Alpla 2. 4... .3.5..0 5. 77.139
iota “OL ence a ee 75.924
Kappa Alaa 25. es 75.769
Delta Tau Det, 2 ee 75.636
Alpha Tau Osiesa 2... ae ss 8a 75.420
Bigoma CP. 75.276
Mambda Chat Alpes. es a eee 74.902
Sigma Phi Mpeen -c.0 0... 74.275
Beta “Theis 8 62. ae 73.773
Pi. Kappa ee 73.707
Zeta Beta Fam 2 220): ae 73.443
Phi Kappa Pa. a 73.333
Phi Kappa Sieme -....55-..2.4.02..5.5 2 73.138
Sioma Alpha Epsilon 4... 2..0.5......-5 4... 73.033
Kappa Sigtia 22. 65 ene 72.090

Local
WATCAGES ope a Aas 81.148

- ALUMNI ELEVATED IN STATE JUDICIARY

Judge Henry W. Holt, B.L., ’88, was appointed by
Governor Byrd to fill the unexpired term of Judge
Martin P. Burks on the Virginia Supreme Court of
Appeals. ‘To succeed Judge Holt as Judge for the
Eighteenth Judicial Circuit of Virginia, Joseph A.
Glasgow, ’91, of Staunton, Va., was appointed.

A graduate of V. M. I., Judge Holt received his
Taw degree at Washington and Lee in 1888. He prac-
ticed Law in Wichita, Kansas, and at Staunton, Va.
He served as Judge of the Buena Vista Corporation
Court from 1893 to 1896 and of the Staunton Corpora-
tion Court from 1900 to 1912 when he was made Judge
of the Fighteenth Judicial Circuit.

Judge Glasgow is a native of Fincastle, Va. He
graduated from the Washington and Lee Law School
in 1891 and has practiced his profession in Staunton,
Va., since that time. ‘The Staunton and Lexington
Bars joined in their support of Mr. Glasgow for ap-
pointment to fill the vacancy created by the elevation
of Judge Holt.

o,
4
4

 

JUDGE CHARLES J. McDERMOTT was nomi-
nated for the presidency of the Alumni Association
of the Law School of Columbia University. The an-
nual meeting took place May 3rd at the Bead
Club, New York City.

Eee aoe

Ss

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

Award Dr. Dillard, ’77, Gold. Medal a

Washington, D. C., March 15—Dr. James H. Dil-
lard, ’77, of Charlottesville, Va., will receive a gold
medal and $500 at the President’s Church here Sun-
day as one of the two awards of the Harmon Founda-
tion toward improving relations between white and
Negro people. ?

Dr. Dillard, a Southern white man, 71 years old,
president of the Jeanes Fund and the John F. Slater
Fund, has led the South to increase the number of
country training schools for Negroes, ranking as rural
high schools, from four to more than 300, and to in-
crease public appropriations for them from a little
more than $3,000 to more than $1,000,000 annually.

He initiated the University Inter-Racial Commission
in the South, and was one of the founders of the Com-
mission on Inter-Racial Cooperation. Before enter-
ing on his present work Dr. Dillard was dean of the
graduate school of Tulane University, New Orleans,
Louisiana.

Dr. Dillard is now rector of the board of visitors of
the College of William and Mary, and a member of
the general education board. In his study of race
problems, he visited Africa in order to build up a
background of more complete understanding of the
Negro.

Julius Rosenwald, of Chicago, was selected as the
recipient of the other gold medal offered by the Har-
mon Foundation for contributions toward better race
understanding open to any American, regardless oi
race. Mr. Rosenwald’s award is made on the basis of
his gifts for Negro Y. M. C. A. buildings in various
cities and for better school buildings for colored chil-
dren in the rural South. Mr. Rosenwald has helped
build 3953 rural school buildings.

The jury which made the awards consists of Bishop
E. E. Jones, of the Methodist Episcopal Church; Dr.
Alva W. Taylor, secretary of the Social Service Com-
mission of the Disciples of Christ; Dr. W. C. Jackson,
president of the North Carolina College for Women ;
Dr. R. R. Moton, principal of Tuskegee Institute, and
Dr. Samuel McCune Lindsay, of Columbia University.

 

+R

Dr. JAMES H. Ditarp, ’77
Country schools for Negroes

The awards will be made here Sunday, at 4 p. m.,
at the First Congregational Church (the President’s
church). Justice Harlan F. Stone, of the United
States Supreme Court, will preside and present the
medals. President Mordecai Johnson of Howard
University will speak.

In addition to these two awards open to Americaris
of any race, the Harmon Foundation gives awards for
distinguished achievement among Negroes in fine arts,
literature, education, business and industry, science
and invention, music and religious service.

 

 

 

JOHN V. McCALL, ’86

Jno. V. McCall, 1883-86, M.A., Port-Stoke Al-
bert Sidney crew, taught for four years, the last two 1s
Professor of Greek and Mathematics in Austin Col-
lege, Sherman, Tex. 1890-93 he attended Union Semi-
nary, Hampden-Sidney, Va., and was post-graduate at
Princeton Seminary 1899-1900. In 1901 he was made
moderator of the Synod of Tex., one of the youngest
men to attain that distinction. In 1917 Austin College

conferred on him the degree of Doctor of Divinity.
He has held pastorates at Wichita Falls, Mineral
Wells, Cleburne, Gainesville and Hillsboro, Tex., and
for two years was Superintendent of Home Missions
for Paris Presbytery. In 1919 he became pastor of
Hugo, Okla., and two years later developed tubercu-
losis and was laid aside for two years at Kerrville,
Tex. In 1924 he was able to resume work and is pas-
tor of Eastminster Presbyterian church, F] Paso, and
chairman of Home Missions in Fl Paso Presbytery.

 

 

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

IN POLITICS

GEORGE C. PEERY, ’03, of Tazewell, Virginia,
father of George Peery, Jr., freshman student, mem-
ber of the U. S. Congress from Virginia, declined to
be considered for re-election, heard himself promi-
nently mentioned as a candidate for the governorship
of Virginia, delivered the keynote ape before the
state democratic convention.

D. C. O'FLAHERTY, 791, Richmond lawyer,
father of D. C. O’Flaherty, Jr., ’26, announced his
candidacy for Congress from the third district of
Virginia, made campaign plans for opposition to
Representative A. J. Montague, incumbent.

DELEGATES chosen by Virginia democrats to
convene at Houston, Texas, included J. Murray
Hooker, 96, of Roanoke, W. W. Old, ’21, Norfolk,
and Mrs. A. P. Staples, wife of A. P. Staples, ’08,
of Roanoke. At Houston they met John W. Davis,
"95, delegate from New York, Vincent M. Miles, ’07,
Fort Smith, Ark., and many other prominent Wash-
ington and Lee democrats.

HENRY W. ANDERSON, ’98, recent Phi Beta
Kappa initiate, went to Kansas City as republican dele-
gate, as Virginia’s republican choice for the vice-
presidency.

VIRGINIA VOTED upon amendments to her
Constitution. Active in behalf of their adoption were
C. H. Morrissett, 14 of Richmond; Louis S. Epes,
08, of Blackstone; J. Murray Fickies 96, of Roa-
noke; and L. D. Age. "18, of Winchester. Inac-
tive bist keenly observant was Dr. Robert H. ‘Tucker,
professor of Economics at Washington and Lee
whose work on the Commission for Simplification
and Economy in 1925-26 laid the ground work for
the proposed changes. Inactive but keenly observant
was Col. Leroy Hodges, ’10, Director of the State
Chamber of Commerce, who as Director of the Budget
and Advocate of State progress has served to set
the stage for Governor Byrd’s progression program.

°

RICHARD D. HAMILTON, ’30, DEMO-
CRATIC DELEGATE

One of the youngest delegates attending the Demo-
cratic convention at Houston was Richard D. Hamil-

ton, of Portsmouth, Va. He was one of last year’s.

sophomores at W. & L. and is a son of Norman R.
Hamilton, Editor of the Portsmouth Star. He served
as an alternate for his father who was elected a dele-
gate from the Second Virginia district, The latter
was injured in an auto wreck during the state conven-
tion at Roanoke and was unable to go to Houston.

ge
; 2 *

J. M. B. GILL, ’03, is Rector of St. Paul’s Epis-
copal Church, Petersburg, Va.

 

“AL WAS INEVITABLE,” SAYS H. ST. G.
TUCKER, ’75

A special News-Dispatch from Staunton says:

“Al Smith was the inevitable candidate at the Hous-
ton convention, according to Harry St. George Tucker,
a visitor here today, and with him the Democratic party
has an excellent chance to win the presidency. ‘The
Virginia vote on the one ballot that nominated the
New York governor did not reflect the sentiment of
the majority of the delegation, but rather what was ex-
pected to be initial political jockeying. At least fif-
teen members of the state delegation, according to Mr.
Tucker, were pronounced Smith men.

“Mr. Tucker expressed the hope that Bishop Can-
non’s projected dry convention at Asheville ‘was not
a joke.’

“Tt would be a great relief to both parties,” he said,
“if the more extreme prohibitionists could be aligned
in a party of their own and behind a candidate agree-
able to them. Certainly there is no issue between the
Democrats and the Republicans on the subject and the
Democrats could well afford to lose any element of
strength the more fanatical dry sentiment represents.
It may be that the Smith nomination will prove a salu-
tary rebuke to these extremists.”

°
See
4

VISITORS AT LEE TOMB

Reports from Lee Chapel, rendered by Mrs. Mildred
Lee Francis, the custodian, show that in spite of
june being a very cool month for motor travel, there
was a marked addition to the number of visitors to
the tomb of General Robert E. Lee this year over
last.

The number of visitors registered in tone of this
year was 7,869; the number registered last year, that
is in June, 1927, was only 6,174.

A new rule applicable to visitors to the tomb of
Lee which is being enforced does not permit visitors
to approach close to the recumbent statue of General
Lee. ‘They are required to stand and view it through
the gate of wire grating a few feet distant. ‘The
reason for this action is that so delicate is the con-
struction of the recumbent statue and so large have
grown the crowds that pass by it at times, that it is
considered wise not to permit visitors to approach

 

close to the marble figure. It is fully visible from the ©

gate. In keeping the gate closed, the management are
following the rule observed as to travelers at other
venerated spots.

owe
°

A. DANA HODGDON, ’11, has been transferred
from duty at the American Consulate, Windsor,
Canada, to the Department of State at Washington,
D. C. He was also promoted from vice-Consul to
Consul of the United States.

 

 

“ at iiiacintieas Pe
5 - ‘ ‘ailie, ta SPO ie a eS =
a ~ ‘

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

From Robert Ewing, 68

April 25, 1928.
My dear Mr. Penick:

Thank you very cordially for your letter of the
20th of this month, received this morning.

The J. W. Ewing of whom you speak was my first
double cousin, and we were roommates in 1867 and
1868, while in Lexington. We could not wait for the
opening of the University in September and hurried
along in August. When we arrived in Lynchburg there
was no water in the canal and we obtained horses and
rode the tow path to Lexington. We boarded the first
year with Mr. Steele, a lawyer of the Lexington bar,
but the second year we took a room over a law office in
the court house yard and took our meals with the
family of Dr. Waddell, living nearby. What charm-
ing ladies his daughters were! Miss Martha, Miss
Maria and Miss Nettie, “who broke all hearts like
Chinaware.” We were two extravagant youths. I
remember that we indulged ourselves with a rag car-
pet on our floor. Under the bed we piled our winter
wood. The Sigma Chi Fraternity, consisting of
thirteen members, held its meetings in our room.
George Peters, J. W. Ewing, Charles A. Graves, John
M. Graham, Frank Coleman and others were mem-
bers. George Peters was a very eloquent speaker, and
of course had our support in striving for honors in
the Literary Society. I sometimes fear that my at-
tention was too often turned from the study of Cicero’s
treatise “De Senectute”’ to the daughter of a certain
professor of the Virginia Military Institute now an
~ honored grandmother living in Lexington. ‘The only
hope she ever gave me was wearing my society pin.
She used to sing in the choir of the Episcopal Church,
which made me a constant attendant, but whether my
thoughts were gravely religious on those occasions as
they ought to have been, I leave to you to judge. I
can see General Lee now as if it were yesterday, as an
officer of that church, walking up the aisle and depos-
iting our small contributions on the altar.

The few remaining alumni of 1867 and ’68 remem-
ber with very sincere affection Professor Carter J.
Harris who, for so many years, held the Chair in [a-
tin. ‘True it was a canebottom chair, but what the oc-
cupant did not know about Cicero was no loss to litera-
ture for it was simply nonexistent. The text he al-
ways used was a simple one, wholly free from annota-
tion. A few of the boys though were so ambitious,
such true lovers of the best in Roman literature that
nothing less than having by them the literal transla-
tions of the speeches, prepared by scholars of note,
would satisfy their longing. Having spent the even-
ing before in dancing, but still keeping before them
this scholarly intent, they carried these “transes” to

the class. Not willing to appear pedantic, they
modestly concealed them under the small book sup-
porting shelf in front of each row of seats. Unhap-
pily Prof. Harris knew as much of human nature as
he did of Latin and besides was not as sympathetic
with this method of approach to a knowledge of the
Latin language as he should have been. I remember
his calling on a member of his class to translate a pas-
sage from Cicero’s Oration. After finding the place,
my friend mounted his Pony and started. ‘The mem-
bers of the class knew that he was not a skillful horse-
man and feared he was riding to a fall. In a little
while the Pony came to the word “grandiloquent.”
The Pony shied. Prof. Harris noticed this and in-.
stead of helping him over the rough passage, cruelly
asked my friend to tell him to what exact word in the
Latin text did he give the significant translation of
“grandiloquent.” Frankly, but somewhat indignantly,
my friend pointed out a well known verb. “That will
do, Mr. Y——, that will do,” said Prof. Harris.

Years after I left Lexington with “a longing, linger-
ing look behind,” the city authorities of Nashville sent
me on a municipal observation tour to Richmond, so
near to the place I loved, I could not resist running up
to Lexington. After morning Chapel exercises Prof.
Harris invited me to go into his class room. On the
express condition that he would not “call on me’ I ac-
cepted. ,

In the evening I supped bounteously with my _ re-
vered teacher. Just as the time came for me to leave,
the door of the dining room was again thrown open
and in again we walked, this time to a watermelon
feast. ‘This was followed by a moonlight walk past
the cemetery. Prof. Harris plied me with questions
about the industrial advance of the South. I answered
as best I could telling him what I knew from personal
observation to be true, that much of this was attribut-
able to the large number of young men Washington
and Lee had sent back to their homes thoroughly quali-
fied to render real service as leaders in this movement
and, of course, also to the wise advice of General Lee,

for whom all felt such unbounded respect’and devo-
tion.

I have in my dining room what I call my “Lee
Grotto.” I have a splendid military picture of the
General. Also one of him on his horse, old Traveler,
on which I have seen him a thousand times. Two
framed letters from him and also, at the bottom, a pic-
ture of him as he lies in the Chapel.

Thanking you again for your letter, I am
Very sincerely,

Ropert Ewine, ’68.

 

30 : ; THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

NEWTON D. BAKER SPEAKS

Commenting upon the address of Newton D. Baker,
-?°904, alumnus and trustee of Washington and Lee, at
the commencement exercises at Birmingham-South-
ern College, the Birmingham Age-Herald spoke as
follows:

“At Birmingham-Southern, Newton Baker was the
baccalaureate speaker, and delivered the kind of ad-
dress to be expected from this admirably clear-headed
and well-poised person. Not for him the flub-dub and
paltitudes resounding through the land at this season,
but the earnest appeal to young persons of this transi-

tional age. He spoke of adjustments, since, in a period |

of flux and change, adjustment is the great desidera-
tum. And he indicated at least three points of ad-
justment to which all thoughtful men and women
must direct their attention.

“There can be no doubt that racial adjustment, not
merely in this country, but throughout the world, is a
matter of significance. There can be no doubt that
industrial adjustment, which shall keep the human su-
perior to the machine and master of the machine, also
presses upon the prayerful interest. There can be no
doubt that international adjustment, with all that it
implies of the grace of peace supplanting the threat of
war, demands from Americans, the profoundest con-
cern of which they are capable.

“In stressing the duty of college graduates to rise to
the heighth of their obligations with respect to these

incalculably vital needs of our world, Mr. Baker has ~

merely given a new form to the ancient challenge
which confronts educated men and women. ‘They
must find themselves to the task of allaying the dreads
of humanity. ‘Speak to it, Horatio, thou art a
scholar,’ was no more pregnant in the Denmark which
Shakespeare imagined than in the America we know.”

Pe a Og
°

N. D. BAKER, ’94, FOR ARBITRATION
COURT, THE HAGUE

Announcement came from President Coolidge thru
Secretary of State Kellogg recently that Newton D.
Baker, ’94, prominent alumnus and trustee of Wash-
ington and Lee, has been appointed one of the four
United States members of the Permanent Court of
Arbitration at the Hague.

Baker is 57 years of age, and is the son of New-
ton Diehl and Mary Dukehardt Baker. He received
his A.B. at Johns Hopkins in 1892; LL.B. at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1894. He served as private secre-
tary to Postmaster-General Wilson in 1896-7, began
practice of law in Martinsburg, West Va., in 1897;
was city solicitor of Cleveland, Ohio, 1902-12; mayor
of Cleveland, term 1912-14 and 1914-16; appointed
Secretary of War by President Wilson on March 7,
1915, and served until March 4, 1921; was appointed

Commanding-Colonel of the O. R. C. in March, 1921.
He is a member of the firm of Baker, Hostetler and
Sidlo, of Cleveland. He is a member of the Phi
Gamma Delta, Society of the Cincinnati and Union,
University City, Chamber of Commerce (Cleveland),
Army and Navy University and Cosmos (Washing-
ton) clubs. His home is at 343 East 105th Street and
his office in the Union National Bank Building,
Cleveland, Ohio.

Ce
cS

D. GARDINER TYLER’S MEMORY IS
HONORED

Charles City Courthouse, April 19—An oil portrait
of the late D. Gardiner Tyler, B.L. 69, Confederate
soldier, member of the State Senate, Congressmaa,
and for twenty-four years judge of the Fourteenth
Circuit, was this afternoon unveiled in the courthouse
here. Ceremonies incident to the presentation were
impressive. Members of the bench and bar from a
number of the Tidewater judicial circuits were pres-
ent as well as members of Judge Tyler’s family and a
number of distinguished persons from Richmond and
other points. 3

Judge Jesse F. West, president of the State Su-
preme Court, was to have presented the portrait, but
was unable to attend due to the death of a close friend.
His prepared address was, at the request of the Tyler
family, read by Ashton W. Dovell, of Williamsburg,
Democratic floor leader in the House of Delegates.

The portrait was unveiled by D. Gardiner Tyler,
Jr., who let fall the folds of a Confederate flag which
had covered the picture as Mr. Dovell concluded read-
ing Judge West’s manuscript. In his prepared ad-
dress, Judge West traced the Tyler lineage and paid
tribute to the jurist as a soldier, judge and citizen. He
called attention to Charles City’s distinction of having
been the birthplace of two presidents, Benjamin Har-
rison and John Tyler, the latter the father of Judge
Tyler.

FREEMAN H. HART, ’12, OFFERED
PRESIDENCY

Dr. Freeman H. Hart, professor of History at
Hampden-Sidney College, was unanimously elected
president of Stonewall Jackson Institute at Abingdon,
by the board of that institution. Notwithstanding the
fact that the Stonewall Jackson Institute presidency
holds very promising features, he declined to accept
the office.

Dr. Hart has been at Hampden-Sidney for three
years. During that time he has been called to Phila-
delphia and other northern cities to make historical
addresses. He is a native of Rockbridge County, Va.,
and is one of the outstanding historians in the South.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

I. P. Gassman, LL.B., ’07

Wuo Has BEEN SuccEssFUL IN BUILDING
A BusINESS BACKWARD.

The point of this story is admirably illustrated by a
statement recently made by a famous vaudeville actor.
The vaudeville man said that a successful sketch is al-
ways built backward. The writer of such sketches starts
-at the final curtain and builds back to the entrance.
“The applause at the curtain is what keeps you on the
bill, so you have to plan to make sure of that before
anything else. And if you do make sure of that, the
building of the sketch is comparatively simple.”

The entrance of the star of this sketch was made,
July 17, 1881, in Martinsburg, W. Va. He was one of
a family of nine children, and for six or seven years
set a lively pace for his mother, having quite an in-
clination to run away from home and visit all the in-
teresting local places of business. In a few years his
family moved to a large farm, which was great fun
for a youngster of seven, but grew more strenuous in
the following ten years. In the late eighties and
nineties the country district schools in the West Vir-
ginia hills were not so progressive, and when he un-
dertook to enter the academic department of Washing-
ton and Lee University at the age of seventeen, he
found that he would have to complete the high school
course, and this was done at the home of his maternal
erand-mother at Harrisonburg, Va.

Following graduation from high school, the young
man started on a strenuous search for the illusive
wherewithal for a college education. In the mean-
time his family had moved to Lexington with a view
tc educating the boys in the family, and “Ike” packed
his belongings and enrolled in the Washington and
Lee Law School. He graduated in 1907, with the
degree of LL.B., and started out to conquer the world.
The world refused to be conquered by his legal efforts,
as has been the case with so many embryo lawyers,
and being offered an opening in the sales division of
the Arcade Manufacturing Co., he gave up law for
the manufacturing business.

Forty years ago this company was a foundry, mak-
ing miscellaneous hardware items and old-fashioned
coffee mills. The story of its development into one
of the largest producers in the world of toys for chil-
dren reads like a romance. ‘There was a lot of scrap
wood left over from the coffee mills. With these
scraps a few toy coffee mills were made utilizing the
gray iron foundry to make the few additional castings
for these toy mills. The children liked the coffee

mills, and the next step was an iron bank, then a yellow

cab, and now exact reproductions of standard auto-
mobiles, trucks, household furniture, harvester ma-
chines, fire apparatus, electric ranges and Frigidaire ice

 

I. P. GassMan, ’07

Butt backward

units. Thus a new line has been built backward into an
old business, and this company is now supplying
annually to the children of this country considerably
over $1,000,000 worth of these cast-iron and wood
toys. , |

It looks as if “Ike” would still be “on the bill” when
the curtain goes down on the final act, and the ap-
plause will justify his unique method of building
“back from the curtain.”

As an example of sales advertising an originality in
business expansion the work of Mr. Gassman has
been commented upon at length in Printer’s Ink, a
journal of newspaper advertising.

Mr. Gassman’s wife was formerly Miss Florence
Iouise Munn, whose family are connected with the

Arcade Manufacturing Co. They have two boys and

their home is at Freeport, Ill. Mr. Gassman is now
Secretary and Director of the Company.

eo ee

MR. JAMES R. BROWN, president of the Man-

hattan Single Tax Club, spoke to Washington and
Lee students in Lee Chapel recently. His addresses

were on several phases of the tax problem.

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MAJOR J. W. BAGLEY, ’03

Among the alumni initiated by the Washington and
Lee Chapter of Phi Beta Kappa, April 12, was Major
James Warren Bagley, ’03, the famed “Um-Paul”
Bagley behind the bat and at right guard during his
undergraduate days, now an outstanding Army en-
gineer, a recognized specialist in mapping, an inventor
of aerial photographic devices.

In response to our request he gives a simple ac-
count of himself, as follows: :

Fort Humphreys, Va.,
June 7, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

In the quarter of a century that has passed since
old Davey Humphreys gave me my diploma in Fn-
gineering, there has been enough variety in my life and
work to interest me but perhaps not enough to interest
other alumni. For twelve years I was with the United
States Geological Survey, mapping the far reaches of
Alaska mostly. When the war came I served with the
Engineer Corps here and in France and at the Hague.
In 1920 I joined the Engineer Corps of the regular
Army and now command the 29th Engineers which
is the mapping battalion of the Army. As training
the 29th Engineers recently mapped the great part of
the Civil War battlegrounds from Middleburg to
Fredericksburg. ,

For years my interest has been in the developing of
an zerial tri-lens camera, then a four-lens, and now a
multiple lens camera with auxiliary instruments which
have been adopted by the government for use in map
making. Recently my orders have been received as-
signing me to Detroit, Michigan, to take charge of the
Lake Survey.

As an outside interest I have the rebuilding of a
Vermont farm house and equipping it with electricity
from my own water-fall.

I regret that this has been delayed in reaching you
and hope that it will be in time for use. .

: Very truly yours,
James W. BacLey.

o,
—_—____—_-+¢
st

INTER-FRATERNITY BASKETBALL

The annual inter-fraternity basketball tournament
was staged in the Doremus gymnasium. The Greeks
brought forth their best amateur talent, were grad-
ually eliminated until the Beta Theta Pi and Phi

 

Delta Theta quints met in the finals; score, Betas

28, Phi Deltas, 23.

°
—_—____¢
o

EKWING S. HUMPHREYS, ’09, in sending in
his Macazine subscriptions, wrote: “Am sorry I
overlooked this, for I cannot get along without the
ALUMNI MAaGaZzINe.”

 

JAMES M. O’BRIEN, ’08

In response to a request for a biographical sketch for
use in the AWUMNI Macazine, “Jimmy” O’Brien, ’08,
replied with the most interesting letter which is quoted
below. Possibly he suffered acute stage-fright before
the photographer—or else he was given a screen-test
and snapped up by the Hollywood scouts, for the
promised picture has not arrived.

“My dear Mr. Kemp:

“I hope you will pardon me for the delay in respond-
ing to your letter requesting my photo and history for
the Macazinr. While my history would be brief
and of perhaps the usual in character, I have been
quite willing to send it on for its worth. The delay
is wholly due to the lack of a photo—for which I have
had little need and less interest in the past. While I
might have begged off supplying one to you, | now
find myself in for a trip to the photographer as my
young daughter, soon to have a birthday, requests my
likeness. You may therefore expect one sooner or
later.

“As to the history—Since 1908: six months of
typhoid on arrival home (New Mexico) from W. &
L.; admitted to Bar, New Mexico, January, 1909;
until February, 1912, in practise with W. C. Reid
and J. M. Hervey at Roswell; 1910-11 Asst. Dist. At-
torney; 1909-12, Local Attorney Santa Fe Railway;
removed to Los Angeles, Feb. 1912; in private practise
since.

“Married Irene Murray, daughter Capt. M. 6%.
Murray, U. S. Army; children: Jane, 10, Jimmie,
jr: 8: Bil 3; Ven, |

“Tribulations: Golf, Flu, Tennis, Appendicitis,
house construction (one only), prohibition.

“Pleasures: California.

“Avocation: Same. |

“Best wish: To return for Finals. Mrs. O’Brien
will be with me—possibly Hi Dow and Mrs. Hi also.

“Many good wishes,
“James M. O’Brien, 708.”

°
—____——-¢

 

EIGHT W. & L. MEN PASS BAR EXAMS

Fight of the 87 men who passed the Virginia State
Bar examination held at Roanoke, were W. & L. men,
and two of them gave Lexington as their residence.
There were 164 candidates.

The W. & L. men successful in passing the exami-
nations were: L. C. Beirne, Jr., Cobham, Va.; Chas.
L. Claunch, Lexington, Va.; Robert A. Fulwiler, Jr.,
Staunton, Va.; Carl W. Hamilton, Wise, Va.; M. M.
Heuser, Norton, Va.; John G. Koedel, Gate City, Va.;
Robert D. Powers, Portsmouth, Va.; and George W.
White, of Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

Medal Announced for Major Hodges, ’10

Richmond, April 7—The second European power

within a year has notified Major LeRoy Hodges, ©

managing director of the Virginia State Chamber of
Commerce, that he is to be decorated for the outstand-
ing work which he is doing in the field of interna-
tional relationship. Czecho-Slovakia last summer con-
ferred on the Virginian the order of the White Lion
and today his excellency Nobile Giacoma De Martino
has announced that the king of Italy has taken similar
action.

In a letter announcing the action of his government
the ambassador wrote, “It gives me a great deal of
pleasure to inform you that upon my suggestion to
kis excellency and head of the Italian government his
majesty, the King of Italy, has designed to confer
upon you the order of office of the crown of Italy as
a token of appreciation of your sentiments toward the
Italian country and the Italian people.”

Reports received here also state that the royal
Italian consul at Baltimore has been specially com-
missioned by Benito Mussolini, Italian premier, to
notify Major Hodges of the honor. Major Hodges
is state ordinance officer of the Virginia National
Guard and as such is prohibited from accepting any
decorations from foreign governments by an inhibi-
tion contained in the constitution of the United States.
However, Senator Swanson and Representative
Drewry have made amendments to both the navy and
army bills now pending in congress to remove the
constitutional inhibition and authorize the president
cf the United States to grant permission to Major
Hodges to accept both the decorations from the presi-
dent of the republic of Czecho-Slovakia and from the

 

Cort. Leroy Honces, 710

Csecho-Slovakia—Italy and England honored him

King of Italy. Major Hodges’ work in calling inter-
national attention to Hampton Roads and promoting
international commerce through the Virginian ports
has been one of the outstanding factors in his recogni-
tion by foreign governments.

 

 

L. A. McMURRAY, ’19, RETURNS

Lewis Armistead McMurray, ’19, was a recent
caller at the Alumni Building. He is in this country
on furlough from his missionary post at Luebo, Bel-
gian Congo, Africa, where he has served since his
graduation from the Union Theological Seminary in
1923. He is working in the field made famous by the
pioneer work of the late W. McC. Morrison, ’87.
Lewis will be in “the States” until next March. He
is staying at his home near Martinsburg, W. Va.

¢,
ee
e

THE SECOND THOUSAND

Just to remind you that the MacaziIne will be is-
sued monthly hereafter—if a thousand new subscrip-
tions are received. Fill out blank inserted in this is-
sue and return with your check for $2.50 (for one
year) or $4.00 (for two years) to Alumni Secretary,
Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

“FITZ” FLOURNOY, ’22

Speaking at Memorial Day services in Lynchburg
and Danville, Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’22, Oxonian, pro-
fessor of English at Washington and Lee, able orator,
lauded Confederate heroes, scored intolerance; before
the Woman’s Club of Lexington and other literary or-
ganizations in the state he spoke upon the spirit of
youth in modern poetry; was elected poet of the Cali-
fornia Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa; departed for
Leland Stanford University to read a poem at the Phi
Beta Kappa celebration; later sailed for England
where he was to receive a Master of Arts degree from
Oxford University, which he attended as Rodes
Scholar, 1922-24.

o,
“~~

 

JOHN J. DAVIS, ’92, of Louisville, Ky., repre-
sented Washington and Lee at the 75th anniversary
of the Louisville Presbyterian Seminary on May 2nd.

40 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Minutes Annual Meeting Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.

Alumni assembled at the Alumni Building, were

called to order by president F. C. Caffrey at 10:45

A. M., June 4, 1928.

Minutes of the last meeting, held June 6, 1927,
were read and approved. (See ALUMNI MAGAZINE,
Sept. 1927.)

In the absence of Prof. Houston, chairman, secre-
tary V. E. Kemp reported for the Alumni Building
committee, gifts $2301.00; income from _ rentals
$57.00; expenditures of $2180.55 and a balance of
$177.45.

For the treasurer of the Association the secretary
reported receipts of $2132.94, disbursements of
$2102.01 and a balance of $30.93.

ALUMNI REUNION DATE CHANGED

The Alumni Committee on class organization and
alumni reunions, Frank Gilliam, °17, chairman, made
the following report:

“Your committee has held one formal meeting and
several informal meetings for discussion.

“1. Tt was agreed by the committee that in addi-
tion to the organization of the alumni by local chap-
ters it would be highly advisable if a stronger class
organization and class loyalty could be effected among
the alumni. In the case of Eastern colleges almost
every expression of organized alumni service to their
alma mater has been through class groups. ‘This class
spirit cannot be created after a class leaves the campus,
but must be the fuller growth and expression of a
class spirit developed in undergraduate days. Accord-
ingly, looking to the future, it will be necessary to work
for stronger class organization on the campus.

“The matter was broached to members of The Circl,
or Omicron Delta Kappa, the student honorary fra-
ternity for campus leadership, and hearty approval was
given by this organization to two initial steps to be
taken. Unfortunately, the late date during the ses-
sion at which this was brought up has made it neces-
sary to postpone until next fall the development in
detail of these ideas. ‘They are as follows:

“a. The marking of the members of each class by
some insignia. The Senior lawyers already carry
canes as their special privilege. This idea will be
further carried out by the use of blazers in different
color combinations by other classes and the working
out of other types of insignia. A ‘Sophomore Day,
a ‘Junior Day,’ a ‘Senior Day,’ would be set at differ-
ent dates during the fall and the insignia would be
worn for the first time on these days. Appropriate

exercises might also be held.
~“b, The clear defining in the catalogue and student

register of a student’s status as sophomore, junior,
etc., this to be determined by the number of semester
hours that he has passed.

“Tt is hoped that the development of these ideas
will point the way to a great many other means of
fostering undergraduate class spirit with the ultimate
result of binding all alumni closer to their alma mater.

“2. Your committee considers that the occasion of
the Annual Home-Coming Football game with the
University of Virginia and V. P. L, alternately, 1s
the best time for an alumni reunion and _ therefore
recommends that the day of the game be known as
Alumni Day, at which time a program of entertain-
ment exclusively for alumni be held. Your committee
further recommends that the regular annual meeting
of the Alumni Association be held at that date.

Respectfully submitted,

Oke Wh ds, (GILs

“T. J. FARRAR

“R. N. LAtTtTuREe

“V. E. Kemp

“F. J. Girniam, Chairman.”

The report was unanimously adopted.

OFFICERS ELECTED

C. S. Glasgow, 711, resident alumni member of the
Athletic Association, reported on the progress of the
Athletic Association, called attention to the noteworthy
additions to the athletic field which had been provided
from admission receipts, thanked the student body for
their gift of the new foot bridge, praised graduate-
manager R. A. Smith, ’15, Coach Forest Fletcher and
Fingineer Hale Houston, 95.

The Nominating Committee of the Board of Trus-—
tees, Dan Owen, °12, chairman, reported the nomina-
tions of John L. Campbell, ’11, Lexington, Va., Dr.
J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’05, Richmond, Va., and C. 'T.
Chenery, 09, of New York City, as Trustees of the
Association to succeed Trustees Laurence C. Witten,
"10, EF. P. Davis, 715, and Dr. William Allan, ’02; of
C. S. Glasgow and E. L. Graham to succeed them-
selves as resident alumni members of the Athletic
Council and of Carter Glass, Jr., and Laurence C.
Witten, as non-resident members of the Athletic
Council.

The report of the nominating committee was unani-
mously approved and the nominees elected.

At this time Dr. John H. Latané, former professor
of History at Washington and Lee, was introduced.
Dr. Latané expressed his pleasure in the progress the
Alumni Association had made.

Charles J. Faulkner, 92, of Chicago, Ill., Francis H.
Styles, 717, from Durhan, South Africa, and Dr. Ran-

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

dolph T. Shields, 97, from Tsinan, Shantung Prov-
ince, China, were introduced.

IMPORTANT PETITIONS

Reporting for the Board of Trustees of the Associ-
ation, Dr. William Allan, ’02, read the following im-
portant petitions to the University Board of ‘Trustees:

“We, the Trustees of the Washington and Lee
Alumni Association, Inc., meeting in authorized ses-
sion and representing every former student of the Uni-
versity, respectfully present for your favorable action
the following petitions:

“(1) That your body be enlarged by the associa-
tion of at least eight additional members as is  pro-
vided for in your charter, these trustees to be known
as alumni trustees and to be elected by the alumni of
the University according to a plan to be hereafter
drawn up and presented for your approval but to
have full privileges of voting upon all questions com-
ing before the Board. In making this petition we are
aware that a similar memorial was addressed to yor
by the General Alumni Association in 1902 and cog-
nizant that the privilege of direct alumni representa-
tion is granted by other institutions such as Prince-

ton, Rutgers and Davidson College to their alumni.

“(2) That the Alumni Association, Inc., be allowed
to inspect and approve any and all campaigns for
funds to be directed wholly or partly to the alumni
by the University or any branch thereof and that no
such appeals for funds now or hereafter be author-
ized without the approval of the Alumni Association,
by vote of our Executive Committee, Board or gen-
eral membership as the specific case might demand.

“Also we respectfully repeat the two petitions which
were presented for your consideration when assembled
on January 19th, 1928, but which evidently did not
come to your attention:

“(a) ‘Since the value of the scholarship Sich ac-
tive local alumni chapters are privileged to award to
an entering student annually was $50 when the tuition
fee was $100, and since the present value of this
scholarship is only $80 although the tuition fee has
been increased to $260, we respectfully petition that
this scholarship be increased in value to one-half of
the total annual tuition fee, namely, $130 at present.

“(b) ‘Aware of the approaching retirement of our
most able and highly esteemed President, Dr. Henry
Louis Smith, from the active administration of the
University and feeling that the selection of a successor
to continue his epochal work is a matter of vital con-
cern to every alumnus of Washington and Lee, we,
the trustees of the Washington and Lee Alumni Associ-
ation, Inc., do respectfully petition the University
Board of Trustees to invite an advisory committee of
alumni consisting preferably of the trustees of the

Alumni Association, Inc., and of such other Washing-
ton and Lee alumni as the Board will include, to advise
with them in their deliberations when in session for
the purpose of choosing or electing the next president
of the University.’

“ “Respectfully submitted,

‘WILLIAM ALLAN, ’02
it. BP. Davis, 15

‘E. C. Carrrey, ’09
‘Dan Owen, 712

‘V. E. Kemp, ’20’”

These petitions were unanimously approved. Presi-
dent Caffrey appointed Dr. William Allan, ’02, My.
C. J. Faulkner, 92, and Dr. R. I’. Shields to wait upon
the University Board then in session and to present
the petitions in person.

SECRETARY'S REPORT

Alumni Secretary Verbon E. Kemp reported that
the affairs of the Association were in a healthy comn-
dition, called attention to the advantages accruing to
the Association from the possession ‘and occupation
of the new alumni headquarters, announced _ that
through the Alumni office $30,000 had been collected
for the University on old Endowment pledges: that
Hon. Braxton D. Gibson, alumnus of the University
of Virginia, of Charles Town, West Va., had donated
a handsome silver rowing trophy for the annual Harry
Lee-Albert Sidney Boat Crew competition; that in co-
operation with the Athletic Association and_ student

_body officers a successful campaign for the $30,000

Class Memorial Bridge had been directed to the stt-
dent body; that $800 in gifts had been made to the
Law School library by alumni; that alumni had volun-
tarily and spontaneously inaugurated the collection of
a $100,000 Fund to establish a Law Chair to the
memory of late Judge Martin P. Burks, ’72, and that
$15,000 had already been subscribed. For the future
a plan for the national celebration of Lee’s Birthday,
January 19th, by alumni was announced and the hope
expressed that the ALUmNr Macaztne could be pub-
om monthly.

r. E. W. McCorkle, ’77, and Thomas M. Glas-
gow, Due expressed their pleasure and satisfaction in
the work of the Association.

Dr. William T. Hanzsche, ’11, of Trenton, N. Ji
was introduced. He deplored the lack of an auditorium
at Washington and Lee, suggested that alumni interest
themselves in providing for this deficiency. E. D.
Campbell, ’21, moved that an alumni committee be ap-
pointed to investigate conditions and codperate with
the University officials in arranging for this provision.
Judge Caffrey later appointed Dr. W. TT. Hanzsche,

(Concluded on page 44),

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Rosser Johnston Coke, ‘| |

- Among the successful younger alumni in Texas
and the Southwest the achievements of Rosser J.
Coke make him an outstanding figure. Able, progres-
sive and popular, he is famed as a lawyer, builder
and promoter in and about his native territory.

Rosser Johnston Coke was born in Dallas, Texas,
August, 1888. He entered Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in 1909, and was a member of the Law Class
cf 1911. He was a member of the Phi Delta Theta
fraternity, Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity, Sigma,
White Friar, and Cotillion Club.

After graduation he was offered a position with
the law firm of Coke and Coke, of which his father
was a member. However, he wished to gain recog-
nition through his own efforts, and started out alone in
the practice of law. He experienced the usual ups
and downs which all young lawyers have, but soon
settled into a successful practice. About this time he
was married to Miss Hazel Long. They have two
sons, Rosser, Jr., and Jack, both of whom will att
Washington and Lee.

_ At the beginning of the World War ‘ip enlisted in
the first officers’ training camp at Leon Springs near
San Antonio, Texas. After winning his commission
he was transferred to the Air Service and promoted.

At the close of the War he entered the firm of
Coke and Coke, and owing to the illness of his uncle,
he has carried on practically all the trial work of the
firm. He is attorney for and director 6£ the Ameri-
can Exchange National Bank, the largest financial
institution in the Southwest, with resources of over
$40,000,000. He is largley responsible for the erec-
tion of the huge Santa Fe R. R. Units. T hese build-
ings cover four city blocks and represent an invest-
ment of nearly six million dollars. He organized,
and is majority stockholder of the Universal. Mills,
Inc., located in Ft. Worth, Texas, of which Gaylord

 

Rosser J. Coxg, 11
“Lawyer, So-dier, Builder”

Stone, 710, is president. He has done his part in the
building of Dallas, having just completed a large
cotton office building known as the Coke Building,
the Nash Texas Building and the Prather-Cadillac
Building.

Mr. Coke is successful, energetic sind resourceful,
a sympathetic and helpful friend to all who are in
need. His popularity is well deserved.

 

 

CLASS ANNUAL OF 1911 LAWYERS

One of the few Class organizations maintained by
alumni after graduation is that of the 1911 Lawyers.
They meet at Commencement every five years for the
election of officers and a banquet, publish an Annual
and through the office of the secretary keep in close
“touch with class members by correspondence.

Edited by efficient class secretary J. Nevin Kilmer
the class annual for 1928 contains much of interest
to alumni from 1908 to 1914. Greetings from Hon.
John W. Davis, 95, and Alumni Secretary Verbon
E. Kemp are published. There are interesting let-
ters from Robert A. Russell, Rustburg, Va.; J. T.
Watson, Tampa, Fla.; John C. Moomaw, Roanoke,

a.; J. N. Harman, Jr., Welch, W. Va.; George Beil,
Columbus, Ga.; Herbert Gregory, Roanoke, Va.; W.
S. Engleby, Roanoke, Va.; Reginald Page, Norfolk,
Va.; N. D. Smithson, Asheville, N. C.; Judge W. F.
Blanton, Miami, Fla.; W. D. Rucker, Washington, D.
C.; John F. Brown, Elkins, W. Va.; Luther G. Scott,
Bluefield, W. Va.; Omer T. Kaylor, Hagerstowa,
Md.; Cleaton E. Rabey, Norfolk, Va.; Charles C.
Scott, Clarksburg, W. Va.; Roger Winborne, Roa-
noke, Va.; Daniel B. Straley, Crown Point, Ind.; and
Claude P. Light, Dallas, Tex.

The annual is attractively got up with a blue and
white W. & L. monogram on the front cover and a
three-page frontispiece of the new Wilson Field Me-
morial Bridge.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

C. A. (“Tod”) Robbins, *I 1

The January issue of the Macazing of Sigma
Chi, (Chester W. Cleveland, Editor) contained a
most interesting feature write-up of Tod Robbins,
11, who has won distinction in the literary and ath-
letic world. From it, by permission, we quote the
following information. |

Tod Robbins was born in Brooklyn on June 25,
1888; attended Poly Prep, played end on the foot-
ball team and held the New York interscholastic
pole vault championship. He entered Washington
and Lee in 1908; was captain of the track team,
1910-11; lightweight boxing champion; a member
cf the tennis team and class football eleven; literary
editor of the yearbook; vice-president of the musi-
cal club, and author of the words of the ““Washing-
ton and Lee Swing.”

Following his college days Tod’s record as a
literateur and as an athlete is enviable. In 1921 he
won the $3,000 Physical Culture novel contest with
a serial entitled “Fighting Mad.’ Like many other
successful authors, he wrote novels and short stories
for five years after leaving W. & L. without having
any accepted. And it goes without saying that he has
Janded all of this earlier work.

His ‘first. novel, “Uhe Unholy Three,’ was ac-
cepted by Bob Davis of Munsey’s three years after
it was written. Later it was published in book form.
However, its greatest success was in the motion

 

Top RoBBINS

Won physical cu‘ture prize

 

C. A. Rospins, 11
—Made Lon Chaney Famous

picture adaptation by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer as a
feature vehicle for the now famous actor, Lon
Chaney. It was a photoplay held in fond memory by
all theatergoers and most assuredly Chaney has not
since had a better story to parade his great versa-
tility.

“Red of Surley,’ another best seller written by
Tod Robbins, and brought out by Harper and
Prothers in 1919, was described by the New York
World as “one of the most promising pieces of fic-
tion done in this country in a long time.’’ Concerning
“Silent, White and Beautiful’ which Boni and
Liveright published in 1921, Benjamin de Casseres
remarked in Judge ‘“These stories held me all night.
They are as ‘different’ as the tales of Poe or Guy
de Maupassant.” The New York Tribune wrote:
“Mr. Robbins stands out among living American
writers in his peculiar field.” The Chicago Daily
News in a review said: “One of the most audacious
of creative imaginations has constructed in this new
book of horror tales something almost new in Amer-
ican writing.”

Of Mr. Robbins’ latest novel, “Who Wants a
Green Bottle,’ the Jrish News of Belfast, Ireland,
said: “Poe, himself—the great American—might
greet Mr. Robbins as an intellectual kinsman.” The
London Times commented: “Tales of horror must
be well written if they are to escape being intoler-
able. But Mr. Robbins’ boldness is fully justified by
the results. Any reader, having strong nerves, will
finish this book at a sitting and wish that the eight
stories had been a dozen.”

His latest screen scenarios, “The Big City,” and

 

44 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“London at Midnight” again triumphantly featured Lon
Chaney.

In addition to the foregoing publications, Mr.
Robbins has had serials and short stories appearing
in many magazines including Forum, Everybody's,
Munsey's, All Story, Smart Set, Metropolitan,
Physical Culture and Current Opinion. Several of
his stories have been on the honor roll of O’Brien’s
Best American Short Stories.

Tod Robbins now lives nine months of the year
abroad, having a beautiful place in Normandy. He
spends several months each year on the Riviera
where he plays tennis in all of the leading tourna-
ments. Needless to say, he has not yet beaten Cochet
or Lacoste, although he did manage to win the men’s
handicap doubles in the championship of the South
of France and reached the semi-finals in the scratch
singles in the championship of the Cote D’Azur.
Also he went to court in the mixed doubles and was
presented to the King of Sweden, but His Royal
Highness was presented with the match.

 

—___-——%o--

ALUMNI MINUTES
(Continued from page 41).

‘11, as chairman of this committee with Samuel
Laughlin, ’14, of Wheeling, West Va., and C.
Chenery, 09, of New York City.

Several other visiting alumni were introduced and
made short talks.

Reports of local association work were heard from
J. W. Morrison, ’26, for Charleston, West Va.; Roger
Winborne, 13, for Roanoke; and Judge F.. C. Caffrey,
for the Manhattan area.

There being no further business the meeting was
adjourned to the Doremus Gymnasium for the dedi-
cation of the Class Memorial Bridge and dedication
address by Thomas M. Glasgow, °16, of Charlotte,
B.C,

+,
i

“SIMPLY OVERLOOKED”

So often an alumnus writes “I have intended send-
ing in my subscription for some time, but simply over-
looked it.” If you do it now you will make it pos-
sible to issue the AyUMNI MacazINE monthly.

 

oo he

 

A. H. THROCKMORTON, ’00. professor of
Jaw at Western Reserve University, who was recently
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa here, spoke to the class
in Contracts, |

Professor Throckmorton graduated from the local
law school in 1900. #n addition to speaking along the
lines of law, he interested his hearers with reminis-
cences of his student days.

FROM CHINA—L. R. CRAIGHILL, ’12

April 18, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

Your letter of March 20th finds me unable to re-
spond immediately with my subscription fee for the
ALUMNI MAGAZINE because I find I have left my
American check book in Shanghai; however I shall be
glad if you will continue to send the MacaziNE and I

will send you a check in about a month and a half

when I return to Shanghai. If there should be any
little communist outbreaks in this inland province in
the immediate future I may be able to send you a check
earlier.

Since Mrs. Craighill, Lloyd, Jr., and I had to get
Gut of here on two hours’ notice about a year ago we
have been making our headquarters at St. John’s Uni-
versity, Shanghai. Since last fall it has been possible
for me to get back here in the interior on several trips
cf longer or shorter duration, but as yet conditions are
hardly stable enough to justify the return of the
family.

This interesting old capital city of half a million
people has furnished an interesting vantage point from
which to observe the sweeping changes which the
revolution is producing. The tearing down of the
Nanchang city wall which has stood since the days of
Charlemagne is quite symbolical of many other changes
in social conditions. The rate at which Westerniza-
tion is being pushed forward by the young progres-
sives makes some of us Westerners want to put on

the brakes a bit. The “foreign” tailor is doing a rush-

ing business. The bobbed haired beauties are every-
where in evidence, and sometimes they wear smart
uniforms with Sam Brown belts. We even have a
roadless motor bus, but the roads are coming too.

There is a good deal of disillusionment among the
student class because the millenium has not come in
with the revolution. A good many of the old things
fave remained; graft, brigandage, and this inter-
minable warfare, but even these are bringing home to
the people that no nation can be stronger than the
moral character of its leaders and citizens. Just the
past week a young Oxford graduate, a Chinese, has
had an opportunity of discussing Christianity in all
the government schools here, and has received an at-
tentive hearing from large audiences. That is better
than I had hoped would be possible so soon.

Two weeks ago I saw Mercer Blain and James
Howe at Hangchow, and both seemed well. W. & L.
and Jexington were naturally our main topic of dis-
cussion.

With personal regards, and best wishes for the
progress of the Alumni Association.

Sincerely yours,

Lioyp R. CrRAIGHILL, 712.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE — 45

he G. Hergden, Ir. °12

Ursinus College has added to its faculty, John G.
Herndon, Jr., as Associate Professor of Economics.

Prof. Herndon who graduated from Washington
and Lee with the degree of A.B. in 1911, became in-
structor in economics there the following year while
he pursued graduate studies in economics, taking the
A.M. degree in 1912. He then became a Fellow in
the University of Wisconsin where he spent the fol-
lowing two years in further graduate study, special-
izing in taxation. While there he edited the second
edition of the Regulations Governing the Wisconsin
Income Tax Law and wrote numerous articles for
the Wisconsin State Journal. ,

In 1914 Mr. Herndon was appointed expert and
special agent for the United States Bureau of Labor
Statistics. At this time appeared his monograph on
“Public Offices in the United States.” In 1917 he
was appointed Assistant to the Chief of the Personal
Tax Division in the Treasury Department at Wash-
ington and the following year accepted a position as
Tax Consultant for the National City Company at
its Philadelphia office. Later he entered upon a
similar position with the Guaranty Trust Company
cf New York. By the latter he was sent to London
to study tax problems arising out of the residence of
American citizens in Great Britain and investments
of British subjects in the United States. In 1921, he
opened his own offices as a tax consultant in Phila-
delphia, in which position he has had wide and varied
experience in dealing with problems of federal and
state taxation.

Up to the present Mr. Herndon has regularly con-
tributed articles to the Public Ledger of Philadelphia
during the early months of each year. Within the
last three years he has written and revised the Income
Tax article of seventy-five pages in the Business

 

JoHN HERNDON

To teach Taxation

Encyclopedia published by the John C. Winston Com-
pany. At various times he has given courses of
lectures on Income Taxes before large classes at the
Philadelphia Y. M. C. A. and for several years con-
cucted classes in federal taxation before the American
Institute of Banking, Philadelphia Chapter. :

With his election to the Faculty of Ursinus Col-
lege, Mr. Herndon returns to academic work, thor-.
oughly prepared in scientific training, in practical
business experience and in actual teaching, for his
position in the college faculty.

 

 

J. N. THOMAS “Y” SPEAKER

At a Sunday service at the 3¥ Yoeom before Com-
mencement “Jack”? Thomas, ’24, one time student
“VY” president, graduate of Edinburgh University,
now a student at the Union ‘Theological Seminary,
Richmond, Va., was the principal speaker. He de-
livered an eloquently simple, and inspiring message
to a small gathering of students.

Se ge ee
¢

ALEX McC. HAMILTON, ’03, of Chicago, IIl.,
was a recent caller at the Alumni Office. In addition
to his work as assistant employinent manager of the
Illinois Bell Telephone Co., he has been attending the
John Marshall Law School of Chicago where he re-
ceived the degree of LL.B. in June.

HALSEY, ’93, WARNS AGAINST
INTOLERANCE

A warning to Virginians to “let not the serpent of
intolerance entice you from the counsel of ‘Thomas
Jefferson, the father of American democracy,” was
sounded by Judge Don P. Halsey, 93, of Lynchburg,
speaking to the Poplar Forest Chapter, D. A. R., at
the unveiling of a tablet commemorating the building
of a home there by the American patriot and its owner-
ship by his family from 1773 to 1828.

o,
.

Mik. and MRS. JAMES VEECH, 794, . from
Louisville, Ky., visited Mr. and Mrs. John Ross and
their son who is a student in the University, during
the spring term. :

 

46 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CARLETON E. JEWETT, ’

The way of the transgressor is hard, but the way of
a young lawyer just starting into practice is downright
difficult—even in the path of rectitude and with so
many transgressors to be dealt with.

And a prophet is not without honor | save. in his own
country—but we are getting too scriptural. Carleton
Jewett returned to his native city of Richmond—an-
cient, quiet, conservative Richmond—and hung out his
shingle for the practice of law in 1921 after imbibing
from the founts of legal learning at Tucker Hall and
being honorably acquainted with a B. L. in the preced-
ing spring. :

Going was slow back in “his own country ;” but
there is need for legal minds around..a .state Legis-
lature. ‘he General Assembly of Virginia is no ex-
ception so Mr. Jewett served various committees from
his legal menu upon order. He is now—among other
things—Reading Clerk in the House of Delegates.

"There was a municipal mayorality melee in Rich-
mond this spring. Mr. Jewett stepped from the shade
of the Capitol into the glare of political heat as a can-
didate for the City Council—five to be nominated from
a field of eight candidates. He received the second
highest vote and was one of the five Democratic nomi-
nees who carried the subsequent election. He will
‘represent the Madison Ward which now includes the
old city of Manchester where he was born.

In the meantime he has built up and carried on his
law practice, has been active in Masonry and in the or-
ganization and development of the Richmond Alumni
Club, and when opportunity offers he returns to Lex-
ington for alumni Home-Coming.

—_____—¢¢____—_—-

ROY GARLAND NICHOLS, ’

Roy Garland Nichols, ’27, is well on his way to per-
manent success in Boston, the most critically severe of
all musical cities in the United States.

Mr. Nichols is now a student of Vose Conservatory
in Boston, but has advanced so rapidly that by advice
of the principal of the conservatory, he is accepting
professional engagements.

He is not only baritone soloist of the Cathedral
Church of the Redemption, but has entered the con-
cert field. Recently in one of the series of concerts
given at the Hotel Vandome in Boston, under the
auspices of the Community Child Welfare Association
of Massachusetts, he sang two group numbers on the
program with a number of recognized concert and
operatic artists and was rewarded with the cordial ap-
proval of a number of newspaper critics. He sang the
principal baritone part in Rossini’s “Stabat Mater’ in
the Cathedral Church of the Redemption, with the re-
sult that he was engaged to broadcast three numbers

over the new station, WBET, during a concert spon-
sored by the Boston Transcript.

Mr. Nichols has been in Boston since February cf
this year. It is understood that next winter he will
go to New York to advance his career.

eg

TROUBADOURS

The Troubadours, student dramatic and musical or-
ganization, presented “The Butter and Egg Man,”
legitimate New York comedy success; after the Lex-
ington showing went on tour to Kast Radford, Marion,
Abingdon and Bristol, Va., scored a commendable hit.
They were accompanied by their own orchestra.

At Natural Bridge on May 19th the organization
staged an interpretative pantomine depicting the his-
tory of the Natural Bridge.

The Glee Club division of the Troubadours com-
peted in the Virginia Intercollegiate Glee Club contest
staged at the Mosque Theatre, Richmond, under the
auspices of the Richmond Times-Dispatch.

o,
ot eo

MARRIAGES

MARRIED: Isadore Forman, ’09, and Miss Mar-
ion Bank, both of Roanoke, Va., in November.

MARRIED: William FE. Brock, Jr., ’23, and Miss
Myra Kruesi, both of Chattanooga, Tenn., on April
oth,

MARRIED: Darby H. Brown, ’24, of Birming-
ham, Ala., and Miss Mary Atkinson, of Piedmont,
Ala., on June 16th.

MARRIED: Walker R. Hall, ’24, of Winchester,
Kentucky, and Miss Lurlene Bronaugh of Lexing-
ton, Kentucky, on March 24th.

MARRIED: George Samuel Spragins, ’24, of

Hope, Arkansas, and Miss Georga Hobson of Los
Angeles, California, on April 5th.

MARRIED: Prince Dmitri G. Sidamon-Eristoff,
°25, and Miss Nicole Chavane, both of New York
City, on July 6th. Prince Kristoff who graduated in
Law from W. & L. in 1925, is also a graduate of the
Russian Imperial School of Jurisprudence and has
been admitted to the New York Bar. Miss Chavane
is the daughter of the late Andre Chavane of Paris,
and a niece of Baronne des Mazures and of Comte and
Comtesse de Traismonts. ‘The wedding was solemn-
ized in the Church of Christ the Savior, New York
City.

MARRIED: Greenberry Simmons, ’27, and Miss
Margaret V. Giles, both of Louisville, Ky., on April
28th. Mr. Simmons passed the Kentucky State Bar
examination and is now practicing Law in Louisville.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 47

Ted Shultz, Fighter, 16

When the All-Time Washington and Lee football
team was recently picked by the alumni there was gen-
eral satisfaction at the naming of Ted Shultz, ’16, as
captain of this brilliant group of players.

Ted came to Washington and Lee from Logansport,
Indiana, in the fall of 1912 and as an eighteen-year-old
Freshman made the ’varsity his first year, playing on
the opposite side of the line from “Buck” Miles; the
two formed a brace of six feet four, one hundred and
ninety-five pound tackles. For four years “the blond
Teuton giant” (as “Rube” Lewis used to call him in
the Ring-tum Phi) battled in this position, climaxing
his gridiron career by being the first Washington and
Lee player to be generally mentioned for All-Ameri-
can honors and by leading as captain the 1915 team
usually regarded as the greatest of all Washington an
Lee elevens.

Ted’s fighting qualities on the gridiron are known
widely to the athletic world, but with many students
of a decade or so ago there remains the more intimaie

memory of a man with the courage to prefer Christian

leadership to social honors, and of his dominant part
in a crisis that threatened the existence of any or-
ganized Christian activity on the campus. Tribute
and recognition came in his being chosen president of
the Student Body. He has been one of the very few
men to receive both the presidency of the Studert
Body and the captaincy of the football team.

Graduating shortly before the opening of the World
War he saw service with the American forces until
after the Armistice.

His experience with college Christian work had
shown him something of the possibilities of service in
that field and following some months of training Ted
accepted a call as the first full time Y. M. C. A. Sec-
retary at Washington and Lee. His forceful leader-
ship and high souled personality brought to that or-
ganization a remarkable influence on the local campus.

While Secretary here Ted was present at many sec—

tional and national Christian conferences and his part
in these gatherings soon marked him as one of the

most aggressive leaders among the younger, liberal

element in Christian Association work in this country.
For some years he has contributed largely to national
Y. M. C. A. publication and committee work.

His national prominence brought Shultz many ot-
fers of larger positions and in 1923 he went to the
University of Kansas as General Secretary of the Y.
NEO A.

His five years there have been marked by much
achievement, not unattended with opposition to be
overcome. ‘The chief objective of Shultz platform has
been the inauguration of a “campaign of thought,” an
effort to awaken the intellectual life of the students

 

 

 

 

 

“Tey” SHULTZ
Fighting on Kansas Campus

concerning the more serious issues of life. In this he
has been markedly successful.

Personally, Shultz, is a pronounced liberal in
thought, and his attitude as an avowed pacifist has led
him to be the center of many attacks. Parodoxically,
he has stood as a fighter fighting for the right to be-
lieve in pacifism and other liberal ideas in religion, and
for the necessity of students deciding such questions
for themselves, intelligently. That he has fought suc-
cessfully is attested to by the overwhelming approval
manifested recently by the Kansas student body for
the critical type of program that he has conducted.
This was voiced the past spring when ‘Ted was called
to assume regional directorship for eight states under
the National Y. M. C. A. organization. The reaction
on the Kansas campus to the possibility of his leaving
decided him to remain at Kansas and continue his work
there. ,

Strengthening his other numerous ties with Wash-
ington and Lee and Lexington in 1917 Ted married
Miss Virginia Barclay of Lexington. They have four

children. Their address is University of Kansas,

Lawrence, Kansas.

 

CONGRESSMAN HARRY ST. GEORGE
TUCKER, ’75, was in Richmond at the presentation
of a portrait of his grandfather, Judge St. George
Tucker, to the district court in that city. Judge
Tucker was appointed a United States district judge
by President James Madison in 1813, and made an
enviable record during the many years of his judge-
ship. - a 3 :

 

 

48 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Daniel Henry McDowell, Colored, Formerly of Lexington Tells His Story

Colliers of June 13 contains an interesting story of a
Washington colored man named Daniel Henry Mc-
Dowell. It is by Walter Davenport and is entitled
“Servin’ and Observin.’” Much of his story is takea
up with the incidents of his waiting on great men be-
ginning with General Grant and ending with “Uncle
Joe” Cannon in a fashionable Washington restaurant.
The beginning tells of his life in Lexington, Va., from
where he hailed as a youth. This part of the story is
repeated below:

“I made my first pilgrimage to’ds the North in
March, 1865,” said Daniel Henry McDowell. “It was
a outstandin’ failure. Some time later on, Lexing-
ton offerin’ no inducin’ comforts, I tried it again and,
suh, by adherin’ to a life of deprivation coupled with
thinkin’—well, suh, you see me just as I am—comf’-
table but not gaudy. Eighty-six years old and ex-
ceptin’ for a occasional smotherin’ in the chest and an
ailin’ in the feet I am aimin’ to proceed through those
pearly gates standin’ erect.”

Daniel Henry McDowell lumbered hugely to his feet
in the shining parlor of his home in Tenth Street,
Southeast, Washington, and demonstrated how he pur-
posed to enter heaven.

He was born a slave on the estate of Samuel Mc-
Dowell Moore, attorney general of Virginia, at Lex-
ington. He “partook of religion” in General Stonewall
_Jackson’s Sunday school class, which he attended
with “humilitude.” He learned the finer points of
serving in famous eating places and homes of Wash-
ington. Renowned statesmen quarreled for his at-
tention. From congress’ mighty orators—Silver Dick
Bland, Fire Alarm Foraker, John G. Carlisle, John
C. Spooner and others “too numerical to mention”—
he gathered a vocabulary which is the delight of ears
white and _ black.

The years rest rather lightly on Mac. He is still
a gentle black giant with the simplicity and deep dig-
nity of a child.

“The first pilgrimage to’ds the North I was re-_

vealin’” sighed Mac, “come to pass without premedi-
tation. The war was on the point of ceasin’ and
General Lee was considerin’ leadin’ his army West
through Buffalo Gap and sequesterin’ such in the
mountains.

“General Jubal Early, a big, tall, precipitatin’ man,
was holdin’ Lexington, and I was servin’ General
Moore, an old man unfit for fightin’, and his daugh-
ter, Miss Sally. That furnishes you with a panorama
of the scene of my endeavors at the moment.

“You behold me, suh, a-standin’ on the piazza. At
my side you behold Miss Sally. We were contem-
platin’.” :

“Where was her father, General Moore ?”

ee

“Out back, suh, deliberatin’. The outlook was right
discouragin’. Suddenly and without unnecessary
warnin’ the cadet corps of the Virginia Military Insti-
tute approaches, with Colonel Shipp a-leadin’ them.

" ‘Daniel,’ said Miss Sally severely, ‘do you see

_ those infants? ‘They are marchin’ up the Valley to the

relief of New Market.’

“Along to’ds the conclusion of the cadet corps we
behold a boy totin his knapsack and his rifle. Like-
wise he is out of step to a distressin’ degree. In my
judgment he is about in his thirteenth year and a big-
ger boy is a-thrustin’ him back like without fallin’ out
of precision to do so. |

“But that boy is filled with conviction, and the dire
thrustin’s back of the bigger boy is unavailin’. He is
just makin’ a place for himself in line where there is
no open vacancy.

‘Oh,’ implored Miss Sally to me, ‘somebody ought
to be there taking care of that infant.’

“Well, suh, I needed no further admonitionin’. I
took my leave of Miss Sally Moore and _ proceeded
North slightly behind that cadet corps, which fetches
us to the beginnin’ of our narration.

“I progressed to the extent of forty miles, which
appeared to irritate the Yankees, suh, to a belligerency
it is difficult to comprehend. Yes, suh. The ground
was willfully agitated with cannon balls, and one of
these took occasion to explode in the vicinity I was
occupyin’. :

“There are folks who could be plunged deep in pon-
derin’ on what I did, but to me it came as natural as
the homeward wingin’ of a bluejay. In other words,
suh, I run. Yes, suh, I was practically the first to re-
treat that evenin’. ‘There was a certain amount of
white folks runnin’, but it was inconsiderable as to
quality. I hastened, suh.”

“What did Miss Sally say, Mac?”

“Well, suh, Miss Sally Moore was still standin’ on
the piazza when I concluded my destination, and the
spirit of the moment was such as to distract from me
the scrutiny which might have been fixed on me in
times which lacked the parlousness of the occasion.
Suh, my feet served me adequately that evenin’, al-
though I must say they were damaged beyond subse-
quent control. :

“The retreatin’, which I do not mind recordin’ as
leadin’, had become universal. I resumed my position
on the piazza back of Miss Sally, and some other ladies
joined our group. .

“Suddenly, without a word from anybody vested in

_ authority, General Jubal Early, appearin’ taller than

ever on account of the smallishness of the little red
horse he was a-ridin’, come whirlin’ by.
“ ‘Ladies,’ exclaimed he,»brandishin’ his hat, ‘good-

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE — 49

bye. Ladies, fare you well. I am departin’ with ac-
celeration, as you see inasmuch as the Yanks will be in
our midst before my shadder is clear of the corner of
that mansion yonder. I am about through accom-
plishin’ hereabouts.’

“With that, suh, General Jubal Early disintegrated
and was quite a piece down the road before General

Hunter and his Yankee cavalry came to a terminus in,

front of the piazza where Miss Sally and the ladies and
I were restin’.

“There was practically no ruthlessness exceptii’
one Yankee soldier partook of one whole barrel of
flour from the stores General Moore had garnered in
the years of plenty as against the years of famine 30
to speak. ‘This one Yankee soldier elicited from the
house with the barrel on his shoulder, remarkin’ that
the bill was to be sent to a gentleman in New York
who was owin’ him ten dollars for some years to come.

“Otherwise there was no devastatin’ exceptin’ to the
grass back of the house. General Hunter bowed to
General Moore and expressed a desire to make the
house his abode.

““T am anguished, General, to accommodate my-
self to the vicissitudes of war in this manner,’ said
General Hunter, “but such is the case of necessity.’

““T am a Southerner, as you can imagine, suh,’ said
General Moore, ‘but you must add to that that I am
not in sympathy with war.’ :

“Yes, suh,” sighed Daniel Henry, “old General
Moore was a politician.”

On the wall in Daniel Henry McDowell’s parlor
is a picture of Stonewall Jackson, who Daniel Henry
takes pleasure in assuring you, was Presbyterian “of
such religious qualities that the Baptists and Meth-
odists couldn’t find nothing on him to take hold of.”

“General Jackson was beholden to no man in the
discoursin’ of religious subject matter. I have ab-
sorbed a deal of preachin’ in my time and have given
ear to preachers who had their short-comin’s. I]
helped sit in on one brother who was bearin’ up un-
der the accusation of bein’ unsound on Isaiah. But
General Jackson was a rounded-out man on all points
of contact with the Bible.

“He was head of the Virginia Military Institute
and as such held Sunday school for colored of all
manner of ages every Sunday afternoon at three. |
had the distinction, suh, of bein’ bell ringer. It was
a honor bestowed upon me by General Jackson be-
cause of my ability in stature and strict attendin’ to
faithful dischargin’ of promptitude. I was the big-
gest boy in the class.

“T would establish myself at the door and intone
the bell which was a warnin’ that the general was
about to hold forth. I was instructed, suh, to whang
the bell seven times and fell from grace just once as

I was filled with a zeal for which there was no ac-
countin’ except it come from on high.

““Daniel,’ says the general on that occasion, ‘there
is no occasion for arousin’ the whole state of Virginia
with that bell. Seven intonatin’s is sufficin’.’

“You see, suh,’’ explained Daniel Henry, “I was
carryin’ out instructions to seven times seven accordin’
to Leviticus. The general was mollified, but likewise
set considerable store by discipline.” |

The talk turned to funerals, which Daniel Henry ha:
made an avocation. Early in life he had manifested
outstanding talents at “solacin’ the departin’ and sus-
tainin’ the bereaved.” He took prominent part in last
rites, too.

“General Lee departed this life in 1870 in Lexing-
ton,” he said, “I laid my petition before Miss Sally
Moore, who spoke to Miss Mildred Lee, the general’s
daughter, which bore much good fruit, namely, that I
led the general’s iron-gray horse, Traveler, in the pro-
cession to the church whilst John Shaw, the general’s
servant at the time, followed the hearse.

“For two hours ‘Traveler and me, we stood outside
the church whilst the services were proceedin’ within,
and nothin’ more exasperatin’ than a slight trompin’ on
my foot by Traveler, who was understandin’ but un-
used to funerals, come to pass.”——Courtesy Collier’s
IV eekly.

yf
¢

MINK MAY BE DISCONTINUED

For the past two years the Mink, humorous

monthly published by the students, has been the sub-

ject of criticism from Faculty, alumni and students.
At the close of the college session a special Faculty
committee was appointed to investigate the publica-
tion. This committee met with the Faculty Execu-
tive Committee after commencement and recom-
mended that the publication be discontinued. ‘This is

not a final action on the subject but it appears most

likely that the Faculty will uphold the action of their
Executive Committee.

The Mink was established in 1921. After three
years of rough sailing it became so involved financially
that publication was suspended, only to be revived
two years later. The later venture was free from
financial worries but ran afoul of some campus, and
much alumni, disfavor because of the improper “hu-
mor’ dispensed. Thus the Faculty Committee action.

—_—_—__—__¢
re

 

WALTER FE. SMITH, ’20, who was married
last December, writes us: “We are now located at
No. 10 San Juline Apts., Jacksonville, Fla., and
please personally present my compliments to any
friend that you might meet in Lexington and extend
personal and earnest invitation to any or all of them
to drop in on us when next in Jacksonville.”

 

50 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Ainslie Gives Sound Advice to Graduates

Rev. Peter Ainslie, D. D., LL.D., of Baltimore,
Md., delivered the annual baccalaureate sermon to
the 1928 graduating class. Dr. Ainslie is editor of
the Christian Union Quarterly, an interdenomi-
national and international journal published in the
interest of reconciliation in the divided Church of
Christ.

A brief outline of the speaker’s address follows:

“Perhaps the most obscured character in history
is Jesus. The Jews did not understand Him. Abra-
ham’s mind was filled with the thought of the Mes-
siah, as was the mind of Jacob, David, and hosts of
Jews. On the death of Solomon the Jews divided
and the two governments were reconciled. One was
taken into captivity by the Assyrians and the other
by the Babylonians, but the dream of the Messiah
did not perish in their thoughts. The Jews returned
from Babylon and rebuilt Jerusalem in preparation
for the Messiah. Under John Hyrcanus all the old
glory came back to the Jewish capital. It was a great
period in their history but in consequence of intense
quarrels the government weakened and Judea be-
came tributary to Rome. 7

“This deepened their study of the Old Testament
in their expectation of the Messiah. They could
conceive of Him only as a political deliverer, one by
whom international alliances could be formed, a
ereat army organized, and Rome forever driven out
cf Judea. Political parties sprung into activity and
Jerusalem was periodically seething with suppres-
sed emotion for the Messiah whose political sagacity
would fulfill the dream of Jewish poets and prophets.
So when Jesus appeared as a carpenter of Galilee,
humble, kind and courageous, they rejected His
claim as absurd, expressing their disgust in His
crucifixion.

“Has the Christian Church understood Him any
better than the Jews did? For the first few centuries
Christians were an humble, kind and spiritual peo-
ple, not unlike Jesus of Nazareth. As they grew in
numbers they grew in pride, dreaming of a world
empire. Constantine—a character as dissolute as
Herod—came to the Roman throne and under his
patronage for political purposes, Christianity re-
ceived the edict of toleration and then became the
state religion. The council of Nicea was called and
out of it came the Niecene Creed. Henceforth Chris-
tianity passed into its captivity. On one hand, the
creedal statements henceforth put Christianity into
definitions; on the other hand, being a state religion,
Christianity became the ally of every fraud and
scandal in political affairs.

“The result of all this was that Christianity be-
came involved politically, committing itself to war;

involved industrially, committing itself to unfair
industrial measures; involved socially, committing
itself to the rule of superior races; and involved the-
ologically, committing itself to systems of theology
that have confused the public mind.

“The Jews would not accept Jesus because He
was. not a political leader; the Christians made Him
a political leader and obscured His spiritual minis-
tration to mankind.

“No age has ever been so challenged as this. We
have back of us these two experiences. Now is the
world of open mind as never before. It is possible
for Jesus to be brought out of His obscurity. His
Spirit is here. It is seeking for outlets. It must find
these outlets in human personality. ‘The adventures
in science that crowd our thinking are but parables to
remind us that the greatest of all adventures is in the
spiritual realm. War must be abolished, industrial
adjustments must be made, self-determination must
be the unobstructed pathway of the races, theology
must take its place with other sciences in changing for
fairer foundation for a united Christendom.

“If it 1s pardonable that He came unto His own
twice—first to the Jews and then to the Gentiles—and
they did not receive Him, it is no longer pardonable.
No man has a right to be provincialized by his back
yard, whether that back yard be his country or his
denomination or his business. By the transportation
of food, fabrics, and ideas the world has been made
a community. We have got to learn to live as broth-
ers in this world community. It is treasonable not
to make a contribution for world betterment in terms
of the Spirit of Jesus. He is the last hope of the
world’s freedom and history waits on tiptoe for the
unobscured Jesus of Nazareth.”

(From Rockbridge County News.)

?

MRS. MARY SAMPSON DUPUY

Mrs. Mary Sampson Dupuy, mother of Mrs. Henry
Louis Smith, wife of the president of Washington and
Lee, died at the Lee Home Thursday, April 5th.

Born in Richmond, Va., October 23, 1841, Mrs.
Dupuy was, at the time of her death, in her eighty-
seventh year. She was a daughter of the late Fran-
cis S. and Caroline Dudley Sampson.

The remains were taken to Davidson, N. C., and the
burial took place there.

Six daughters and one son survive these being
Miss Lavalette Dupuy, of Korea, Mrs. J. A. Taylor
and Mrs. Henry Louis Smith, of Lexington, Mrs.
Frank R. Brown of Greensboro, N. C., Miss Jean
Dupuy and Mrs. W. L. Lingle, both of Richmond,
and ‘T. D. Dupuy of Greensboro.

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7 51

Bridge Building

(Dedication Address by Thomas M. Glasgow, ’16)

Mr. Chairman, Ladies and Gentlemen:

Some eight years ago it was my rare privilege to be pres-
ent at Finals, when the University would do honor to her
World War Veterans, to deliver the address before the
Alumni. Little did I think at that time that a second and
greatly coveted honor would befall my lot, such as was ex-
tended in the gracious invitation of Mr. Kemp, to be present
and speak on this occasion.

Down in Carolina where I am now making my home, I
recently heard of a cotton field club-footed negro who had
the good fortune to be invited by one of his friends of the
city to attend a dance. He became greatly enamored of a
dashing young mulatto, dancing with her frequently, step-
ging all over her feet and causing her great embarrass-
ment. About the middle of the evening, going up to her he
asked, “Miss Susie, may I have the I-a-s-t dance?” Looking
him over with disdain, she replied, “Big boy, you done had
the last ‘dance! !” Such, I felt, was justly my lot and that
the privilege of speaking today should have been given to one
of the many sons of our University who have written their
names high in the halls of fame and achievement amid the
affairs of the Nation. As the speaker of today, I am re-
minded again of my dusky friends in Carolina. I recently
saw a pompous engraved invitation to a strawberry supper
gotten out by the “Daughters of I Will Arise Zion Meth-
odist Church” which read: “You are cordially invited to be
present at the strawberry supper to be given on the Church
lawn next Friday evening.” Just below was engraved this
postscript “On account ‘of the high price of strawberries,
prunes ‘will be served.”

However, I rejoice in the privilege of being present to-
day. As I look out upon the faces of those gathered here,
a flood of rich memories are mine—memories hallowed by
association during my six years on this campus in. the days
that are gone, and memories sweetened with childhood’s
happy hours when as a lad I played upon yon velvet green
and yearned for the day when I should follow my father and

grandfather, six uncles and three great uncles, two brothers |

and six first cousins as students and worthy sons of Wash-
ington & Lee.

As we gather here, in memory’s eye I see that great. host
of those who have gone before—Oberlain, “Tubby” Stone,
Minetree and Pat Osborne, mighty strokes of the Harry Lee
and Albert Sidney Boat Crews; “Um-Paul” Bagley,
“Skeeter” Maxwell, Harry Pratt of the baseball diamond in
the late nineties; “Smut”: Smith and Pat Ross—two of the
greatest ends who ever wore the White and Blue as they
starred in the last football game ever played against the Vir-
ginia Military Institute; “Red” Porter—that sandy haired
“south paw” pitcher who always struck out—as he thrilled
the onlookers with a three bagger in the eleventh inning and
won his game from the crack team of the Carlisle Indians
in 1905. Sam Chilton and Riley Wilson, sons of the West
Virginia hills and also stars of the diamond then. ‘Ted”
Schultz, “Buck” Miles, Johnny Barrett, Cy Young, and
Lindsay Moore who led the Washington & Lee All Southern
in 1913-14, scoring more against Cornell in the first half of
the game than she had permitted all opponents combined in
the two previous seasons. These and a host of other faces
come back to us as we linger here amid the shades of the past.

Yea, and hovering above—looking down from their rich
and gracious reward—I feel the presence of John L,. Campbell,
for many years the beloved Treasurer of this University,
David Humphreys, whose memory will always be hallowed

 

“Tom” Griascow, 712-716

“__Thrilled the audience”

amid our engineers, Walter Leconte Stephens, long honored
as the head of the Department of Physics, Martin P. Burks,
beloved Dean of the Law School and member of the Supreme
Court of Virginia, surrounded by old Clovis Moomaw and
that flower of our Alumni and of the Southland whose bodies
sleep in Flanders Field and whose loyalty to the patriotic tra-
ditions of our Alma Mater will keep ever verdant their deeds
in the sacred chambers of immortal memory. It is such an
audience — seen and wunseen—which I have the honor to
address this morning.

We have met to dedicate this beautiful structure which
jtes before you. I have chosen as my theme—‘‘Building
Bridges” —a theme most fitting for the Founders and Alumni

and Students of this University.

“Building Bridges’—Bridges across the chasm of colonial
oppression and chaos, over which, led by George Washing-
ton—the generous benefactor of this institution—our rug-
ged forefathers and their descendants marched into national
existence and international supremacy. Bridges across the
broken fragments of a shattered nation as the immortal Lee
—towering above the bitter prejudice of a civil war—led
back, by precept and example, the bleeding citizenry of the
once sunny Southland until today she shines as a brilliant
jewel in a nation’s crown.

Inspired by the leadership of these two noblemen whose
tiames she bears, this University has poured forth a stream of

 

52 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

worthy sons whose deeds of service have spanned the ravines

of a Nation’s needs in commerce, professional life and polit-

ical statesmanship.

Building Bridges—Newton D. Baker, honored Adumnus
and ‘Trustee of this University, across whose services and
peerless ability as Secretary of War, a peaceful nation was
led into a position of military preparedness and _ efficiency—
gigantic, impregnable and invincible at a time of the nation’s
crisis.

Building Bridges—Thomas ‘Todd, Robert Trimble and
Joseph R. Lamar, Alumni of this University and Associate
Justices of the Supreme Court of the United- States, together
with that long list of eminent state and national jurists whose
thought and reason have spanned the maze of legal research,
guided the steps of a nation’s courts and written high the name
and honor of this University in the halls of Fame. |

Building Bridges—In the lives of William Morrison, in the
heart of Africa; William McElwee Miller in the heart of
Persia; Harry Myers in cherry blossomed heathen Japan;
James Montgomery, Frank Price, Houston Patterson, Bob
Crawford in war torn China, and the others of that gallant
band of Alumni—missionaries of the Cross of Jesus Christ—
building those sacred bridges which lead from the darkness of
sin and idolatry into that mansion not made with hands, eter-
nal in the heavens.

Time forbids that we detail that mighty host who have gone
forth from yon sacred walls into the holy profession of the
Gospel Ministry; into the character moulding profession of
Teaching; into the glorious profession of Medical Science;
into the exacting profession of Engineering; into the honored
profession of the Law; into that new and splendid profession
of Industry and Commerce-building, through achievement
and sacrificial service, bridges across which the unborn gener-
ations of tomorrow will pass with safety and joy because they
have labored and served.

An old man going a lone highway,

Came in the evening cold and gray,

To a chasm vast and deep and wide,

The old man crossed in the twilight dim,
The sullen stream had no fear for him,

But ke turned when safe on the other side
And built a bridge to span the tide.

“Good Sir” said a fellow pilgrim near,
“You are wasting your time with building here;
Your journey will end with the ending day,
You never again will pass this way,

You have crossed the chasm deep and wide,
Why build this bridge at even tide?”

The builder lifted his old grey head—
“Good Friend, in the path I’ve come”, he said
“There followeth after me today

A youth whose feet must pass this way.
The chasm which has been naught to me,
To the fair haired. boy a pitfall may be.
He, too, must cross in the twilight’s dim—
Good Friend, I’m building the bridge for him.”

Inspired by the lives of its founders and imbued with the
spirit of her noblest tradition—personal honor, sacred and
inviolate—the Alumni of Washington and Lee have gone
forth to spend and be spent in the service of their nation,
their state, their community, their King—exemplifying in
that service the grandeur of that greatest of all sentences
in uninspired literature—“The dealings of my trade are but
a drop of water in the comprehensive ocean of my business.”
Uncompromising with the difficulties of the task they have
builded with an ever mounting glory and grandeur.

The story is told in the Franco-Prussian War that the
standard bearer of a regiment, which had never known de-
feat, in the heat of battle found himself far out beyond the
line. The Commander seeing the situation called to the
standard bearer to bring the flag back to the line. Replying,
the standard bearer made answer in words immortal; “Sir,
this flag has never known retreat—bring the line up to the
flag!!!” Such is the spirit of this institution, its students

and Alumni, typified in, the lines loved by the late Wood-

row Wilson:

Then I beheld or dreamed it in a dream

There lay a cloud of dust along the plain

And underneath the cloud or in it raged

A battle—sword shocked on sword and shield:

A prince’s banner faltered—then staggered backward
Hemmed by foes.

A craven hung along the battle’s edge

And said “Had I a sword of keener steel

That blue blade like the King’s son has—

But this blunt thing’—he broke and flung it from him
And lowering crept away and left the field.

Then came the King’s son, wounded, sore beset
And weaponless, and saw the broken sword,
Hilt half buried in the trodden ground,

And ran and snatched it up—with battle cry
He turned and hewed the enemy down.

And saved a great cause that illustrious day.

Such has been the record of Washington and Lee—her sons,
undaunted by circumstances or -condition, have builded su-
per-structure upon super-structure in the service of mankind.

Today we dedicate this magnificent bridge presented to
the University by the classes of 1927-31. I am told that it
is the longest concrete foot bridge in the world, and I add
without hesitation—the most beautiful. In this dedication
it is most fitting that I express the deep gratitude of the
University and its Alumni to Mr. Verbon Kemp, the effi-
cient Secretary of the Alumni Association, Mr. R. A.
(“Dick”) Smith our splendid Graduate Manager of Athletics,
and to the President of the Student Body, for the major part
that they have played in its accomplishment. Through them
to the classes of 1927-31 may I express not only our grati-
tude but our pride in this, the first great material memorial
ever erected upon this campus by a student body—a memo-
rial so eminently in keeping with the spiritual bridge build-
ing traditions of this institution,

In conclusion, may I extend this wish from the Alumni to
its Alma Mater and incoming student bodies of future days.
My wish is embodied in, the lines dedicated to Columbus by
Joaquin Miller:

Behind him lay the gray Azores;

Behind the gates of Hercules:

Before him not a ghost of shore

Before him only shoreless seas.

“Now we must pray” the brave mate said
“For lo! the very stars are gone.

Brave Admiral, speak, what shall I say?”
He said “Sail on, Sail on, Sail on.”

My men grow mutinous day by day,

My men grow ghastly wan and weak,

The brave mate thought of home—a spray
Of salt wave washed his swarthy cheek,

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 53

The Librarian Reviews

Some Books of the Year.

“Some books are to be tasted, others to be swallowed, and
some few to be chewed and digested.” ‘Thus Bacon urged
the principle of discrimination in, the choice of reading in
1597, and one wonders if he could have given more timely
advice to members of the present generation.

His first class I shall make no attempt to consider for such
books descend upon us each year in numbers far too large
to be included in one short list. ‘The titles which follow are
only a few of those recently published which may be suggested
for the second and third categories.

Baker, Ray Stannard (David Grayson, pseud.). Life and
Letters of Woodrow Wilson. 2v. Doubleday, 1927.
$10.

One hears much nowadays of the satirical Man Who
Knew Coolidge. Dr. Baker is the Man Who Under-
stood Woodrow Wilson. ‘These first two volumes of
the series are devoted to his life before he left Prince-
ton to go into New Jersey politics, the letters and events
being skillfully chosen to present a faithful account of
the formative years and to explain his later career.

Beard, Charles Austin and Beard, Mary (Ritter) (Mrs.
Charles Austin Beard). Rise of American Civiliza-
tion. 2v. Macmillan, 1927. $12.50.

An ideal history for the intelligent layman who will
find in this work an interpretation of American life—
economic, social, political, agricultural, industrial, and in-
tellectual. The historical development is traced from its
beginnings to the machine age.

Bell, Gertrude Margaret Lowthian. Letters: sel. and ed. by
Lady Bell. Boni & Ljiveright, 1927. 2v. $10.

These letters are satisfying as a book of travel, as a
study of an unusual personality, or as an account of
political conditions in Arabia during the war. ‘They are
dramatic, witty, and vivid, and include brilliant charac-
ter sketches of Colonel Lawrence and other people of
prominence with whom she was associated.

 

 

“What shall I say, brave Admiral, say,
If we sight naught but sea at dawn?”
“Why you shall say at break of day
Sail on, Sail on, Sail on, and on.”

They sailed, they sailed—then spake the mate,
“This mad sea shows her teeth tonight

She curls her lip and lies in wait,

And lifts her fangs as if to bite.

Brave Admiral, speak but one good word;
What shall we do when hope is gone?”

The word leapt like a leaping sword—

“Sail on, Sail on, Sail on, and on.”

Then, wan and lone, he kept his watch

And peered through darkness—Ah that night
Of all dark nights—and then a speck—

A light! A light! <A light! <A lght!!

It grew a star lit flag unfurled.

It grew to be time’s burst of dawn.

He found a world—he gave that world

Its grandest lesson—“On! Sail on!!”

As this bridge which we now dedicate is added to those
glorious spiritual bridges of the past—to the University and
the classes who have given this splendid structure—the
Alumni with pride would extend their wish—“On—sail on!!”

 

CARNEGIE LIBRARY

LOOM EASICO. cis. SWALLOW ...verscseee digested”

Cather, Willa Sibert. Death Comes for the Archbishop.
Knopf, 1927. $2.50.

Not modernistic fiction but a straightforward record
of the Archbishop’s good works in his diocese of Santa
Fé during the latter part of the last century. Should be
read slowly and contemplatively.

De La Roche, Mazo. Jalna. Little, 1927.. $2.00.

A thoroughly interesting novel of family life at Jalna,
the Canadian estate of the Whiteoaks. There are many
characters, all of them well drawn but all of them dom-
inated by the grandmother of ninety-nine.

Glaspell, Susan. Road to the Temple. Stokes, 1927. $3.00.

“The romance of an’American brought up on the Mis-
sissippi and buried beside the Temple of Apollo at Delphi.”
Susan Glaspell has written a sympathetic story of the life
of her husband, George Cram Cooke. As a poetic truck
farmer in Iowa, then a newspaper philosopher in Chi-
cago, and finally as founder of the Provincetown play-
ers, he traveled the “road to the temple.”

Hagen, Oscar Frank Leonard. Art Epochs and Their Lead-

ers; a Survey of the Genesis of Modern Art. Scrib-
ner, 1927. $3.00.

Traces those “paths of development that converge upon
the painting of the 19th century.” ‘To those who approach
it with little knowledge of art history, this book will prove
interesting, to the student it will be thought provoking.

Jones, Eli Stanley. Christ at the Round Table. Abingdon
press, 1928. $1.50.

Readers who were impressed by the Christ of the In-
dian Road will like to know about Christ at the Round
Table. Here men of various religions in India meet to
exchange views of their personal religious experiences.

Masaryk, Thomas Garrigue. Making of a State: Memories
and Observations, 1914-1918; an English version: arr.
and prepared with an introd. by Henry Wickham
Steed. Stokes, 1927. $6.00.

President Masaryk is a professor and_ philosopher.
He has written a thoughtful narrative of the making of
a nation in which he also comments upon life in the coun-
tries which he visited during the process of its formation.
Not the least important part of the book is its reasoned
analysis of Bolshevism and his observations on Wilson
and other statesmen.

Maurois, Andre. Disraeli; a Picture of the Victorian Age.
Appleton, 1928. $3.00.

Disraeli has been the subject for so many biographies
that one wonders what remains to be said. ‘This, how-
ever, is a welcome contribution to such literature since it
expresses the point of view of an intelligent foreigner

 

54 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

who writes entertainingly and with an understanding of
the political issues involved.

Moon, Parker Thomas. Imperialism and World Poligee
Macmillan, 1926. $3.50.

Herein Professor Moon of Columbia University ex-
plains imperialistic world politics and the system of man-
dates of the League of Nations. He has performed his
task with thoroughness and fairness.

Mukerji, Dhan Gopal. A Son of Mother India Answers.
Dutton, 1928. $1.50.

Some of our library patrons say that it will be unnec-
essary to attempt Katherine Mayo’s Mother India, if one
reads this brief refutation of her statements. ‘The author
is an Indian who writes from his own knowledge and
experience.

O’Neill, Eugene Gladstone. Lazarus Laughed; a Play for an
Imaginative Theatre. Boni & Liveright, 1927. $2.50.

The story of Lazarus in demonstration of the theme
“There is no death. There is only life and God’s eternal
laughter,” written in the spirit of the pre-reformation
miracle and mystery drama.

Parrington, Vernon Louis. Main Currents in American

Thought. 3v. v. 1-2. Harcourt, 1927. $4.00 ea.

The Rise of American Civilization places emphasis on
economic conditions. Professor Parrington’s history 1s
a literary one which includes writers whose ideas have
been a force in moulding public opinion eyen, though their
literary merit would not justify passing notice in his vol-
umes. Received the Pulitzer prize 1927.

Robinson, Edwin Arlington. Tristram. Macmillan, 1927.

$1.50.

A modern version of the ancient legend of Tristram
and the two Isolts. It has the unique distinction of ap-
pearing in, the Bookman’s Monthly Score—an honor never
before accorded a book of poetry.

Rolvaag, Ole Edvart (Paal Morck, pseud.). Giants in the
Earth; a Saga of the Prarie; tr. from the Norwe-
gian. Harper, 1927. $2.50.

A vigorous narrative of pioneer hardship and heroism
among Norwegian settlers on the plains of South Da-
kota. The person who has been held by the spell of Knut
Hamsun’s Growth of the Soil should enjoy this book
also.

Rostoztseff, Michael Ivanovich. History of the Ancient
World; tr. from the Russian by J. D. Duff. 2v. Ox-
ford, 1927. $10.00.

The first volume deals with The Orient and Greece,
the second, with Rome. A readable and compact history
of the ancient world in, which some consideration is given
the economic and social aspects of human life. The vol-
umes are profusely illustrated with photographs which
are accompanied by excellent interpretive legends.

Sturzo, Luigi. Italy and Facismo; tr. by Barbara B. Carter ;
preface by Gilbert Murray. Harcourt, 1927. $3.75.

Don Sturzo is a Sicilian priest now in exile in London
who in 1919 founded the Partito Popolare, a party of
advanced. Radicalism, Christian, but not Clerical. Al-
though he is a hostile critic of Facism he is a reasonable
and tolerant one, giving Signor Mussolini credit for his
financial, economic and administrative reforms. He con-
cludes, however, that the losses are immeasurably greater
than the gains.

Wilder, Thornton Niven. The Bridge of San Luis Rey.
Bont, 192/. SzZ.00,

The place of this purely imaginative tale 1s Lima, Peru,

the time, two centuries ago. Father Juniper investigates
the lives of five people who perish in the fall of the
Bridge of San Luis Rey, in the hope of discovering some
divine motive for bringing about their death in this way.
The book is outstanding because of the beauty of its

style, the unusual plan of the story, and the charm of its
setting.

Young, Francis Brett. Love is Enough. 2v. Knopf, 1927.
$5.00.

A book well named, for many sorts of love are there.
It is a delightful and absorbing story of the life of a
charming woman with an English countryside for its
background.

Miss Heten Rockwew., Librarian.

ESSERE 3
Seta es ca

CHARLES E. BRADSHAW, ’25, KILLED

Lieut. C. FE. Bradshaw, ’25, of New Haven, Conn.,
plunged to his death in an airplane near Selfridge
field, Detroit, Mich., on July 16. He had graduated
recently from the army flying school at Kelly field,
Texas, and had joined the first pursuit group at Sel-
fridge field. He was on a practice flight over Lake
St. Clair when his plane failed to come out of a loop
and plunged 1000 feet into the water below.

ee a

DEATH OF “TOMMY” THAMES

The Washington and Lee Campus will be cast in
gloom, when students assemble in the Fall, by the
death of Thomas B. Thames, of Covington, Ky., who
died from the effects of an operation for ulcer of the
stomach, at Cincinnati, O., on June 28.

Thames had just completed his junior year at
Washington and Lee. During the past year he was
president and director of the “Troubadours,” student
dramatic and musical organization. He was very
popular on the campus and was looked upon as one of
the student-body leaders. He was a member of the
Sigma Chi Fraternity.

___—-1%

PERSONALS
LESTER D. ARNOLD, 718, of Winchester, Va.,

 

was in charge of the campaign headquarters, estab-

lished in Murphy’s Hotel, Richmond, from which
the State-wide campaign for the ratification of the
pending constitutional amendments was directed.

“ROSIE” McMURRAY, 719, holds a position in
the foreign service of an Akron Rubber Company.
He plans to remain abroad for two years and then
fulfill his ambition by getting a job in Hollywood.

DR. REID WHITE, JR., 719, now completing his
internship at the Pennsylvania Hospital, Philadelphia,
is visiting his father, Dr. Reid White, in Lexington.
He expects to return to Lexington in October to
engage in the practice of his profession.

CECIL B. BURNS, ’20, was appointed to repre-
sent Washington and Lee at the inauguration of
President Harper of Evansville College, Evansville,
Indiana, on March 22nd.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | a5

Commencement Address

By Dr. Jonn H. Latant

While, I trust, we are not facing another world war in the
immediate future, we have, nevertheless, many great prob-
lems to be solved if we would avoid such a catastrophe.

And so today instead of giving you advice, as is usual upon

occasions of this kind, as to what constitutes success in, life
and the means of achieving it, I shall address myself to one
of the greatest problems that American democracy faces—
the problem of imperialism.

Very few Americans yet realize the fact, much less the
full significance of it, that as a result of the World War the
United States has ceased to be a debtor nation, and is rapidly
becoming, if indeed it has not already become, the world’s
greatest creditor nation. At the beginning of the European
war we owed abroad five or six billions of dollars. Our
great railroads and industrial enterprises had absorbed _ bil-
lions of European, capital. We borrowed where the interest
rates were low, in London, Paris, Hamburg, Berlin. By the
time the United States entered the war, most of the American
securities held in Europe had been sent back to this country
in exchange for goods and munitions, and a clean slate was
presented. As a result of the war the rest of the world now
cwes us twenty-five billions. This includes ten billions of gov-
ernment debts, representing sums advanced by the United
States government by the countries of Europe for war and
post-war purposes. And we might as well wipe these debts
off the slate, for in my humble judgment they will never be
paid, certainly not in full.

That leaves about fifteen billions—the amount of Ameri-
can loans and investments abroad, and we are now investing
abroad at the rate of over a billion dollars a year. I ask you
to stop to consider what that means, what effect it will have
upon the foreign policy of the United States. Although the
Constitution does not follow the flag, the State Department
follows the dollar. How are these foreign investments to
be protected? That is a new problem for American states-
manship to solve, for we have never before had occasion to
develop a foreign investment policy.

leaving Europe out of account, let us confine our atten-
tion to the Caribbean and to the countries bordering on the
Caribbean, an area nicely fenced off by the Monroe Doctrine,
where we can do what we please without interference from
Europe, for what European power, since the World War, is in
a position to challenge the Monroe Doctrine or any interpre-
tation we may choose to give it? Let us see what we have
been doing of late years in, the Caribbean area, and let us ask
ourselves whether our rule over our Southern neighbors has
been subject to the democratic will of the American people,
or to constitutional control, or merely to the autocratic pow-
ers of the American president.

The Monroe Doctrine has for over a hundred years been
the basis of our policy in Latin America. It is a unilateral
policy proclaimed originally, as President Monroe stated, for
the purpose of preserving “the peace and safety of the United
States.” Incidentally it was a policy of benevolent protec-
tion, for it saved Latin America from spheres of influence
and from the kind of imperialistic exploitation to which China
and Africa were subjected during the latter half of the nine-
teenth century. As a result of our vast national resources
and our economic self-sufficiency, we were not tempted until
recently to exploit the countries of Latin America, and there-
fore the Monroe Doctrine was, in effect, an open door pol-
icy. In recent years, that is, since the Spanish War, the sit-
uation has wholly changed, particularly as regards our rela-
tions with the Caribbean and the countries bordering on the

Caribbean. In this area the Monroe Doctrine has become the
main instrument of American imperialism.

Some Americans object to the term imperialism when ap-
plied to the United States, but you will not often find this
objection raised by economists and political scientists. The
term imperialism, as used by writers in, this country and
abroad for the past quarter of a century means the subjec-
tion of backward races to the will of more powerful and
more highly industrialized nations and the exploitation of the
natural resources of the former by the latter. If this term
does not accurately describe the relationship of the United
States to the Caribbean, I am at a loss to find a better one.

At the beginning of the present century our total invest-
ments in Latin America were less than three hundred mil-
lions. ‘Today they amount to the enormous sum of five bil-
lion two hundred million, and more than three billion of this
is in the Caribbean area. The overflow of American, capital
into this region is undoubtedly destined to continue. While
European capital may recover lost ground in the larger states
of South America, the Caribbean area has been marked off
for American development or exploitation, as the case may
be. The United States has become the most industrialized
nation, in the world, and it is already apparent that economic
imperialism is not going to be held back by political frontiers.

Investors in the backward or disorderly states of the Carib-
bean area look to the government of the United States for
protection, and the government has not been unresponsive.
Some of the methods of control already employed may be
briefly referred to. In the case of Porto Rico and the Dan-
ish West Indies we have resorted to direct annexation, through
cession from their former sovereigns. So far we have re-
frained from annexing independent states, and it is not likely
that we will resort to that method of control for the formal
annexation of the territory of other peoples is no longer in
vogue. But economic imperialism does not have to resort to
such crude methods as annexation. Its aim can be equally
well accomplished in other ways. ‘Thus we have established
protectorates over Cuba and Panama; we have established
receiverships in the Dominican Republic and Haiti; we have
sent financial advisers under loan contracts into various coun-
tries to see that the money is spent for the purposes for
which it is advanced; we have intervened by force for the
purpose of policing disorderly countries, as in Haiti, Santo
Domingo, and Nicaragua; we have undertaken the intellectual
as well as the physical sanitation of certain states of this
area by declaring that we will not permit Bolshevistic and
Communistic propaganda; we have developed a non-recogni-
tion policy under which the President of the United States
may withhold or withdraw recognition from a government
which he considers unfriendly to the United States, and be-
stow recognition upon some claimants to executive power who
will be a mere puppet in the hands of the Department of
State, as in Nicaragua; at the request of the government
thus set up we have landed marines for the purpose of crush-
ing opposition; and finally, we have assumed the task of su-
pervising elections in disorderly countries. If these various
methods of control do not ccnstitute imperialism then what
is imperialism? But of course some of you will say that our
motives have been high-minded and pure, and that our inter-
vention has been justified.

We have, it is true, done a good job in Cuba and Santo
Domingo. Imperialism always has an element of benevolence
in it. England has undoubtedly done more than any. other
nation, in the spreading of civilization throughout the world,
and yet we consistently refer to her in words of condemna-
tion as an imperialistic nation, Between the Spanish War

56 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and the close of the World War we brought under our con-
trol 18,000,000 of people and 281,000 square miles of terri-
tory. Did any of the imperialistic nations of Europe, to whom
our Senators refer so frequently as being unfit or dangerous
for us to associate with, make such gigantic strides in im-
perialism during the same period? Imperialism is inevitable.
We have on the one hand a group of highly industrialized
nations, which have already used up a large part of their own
materials, and on the other hand a group of backward coun-
tries with vast natural resources which they are at present
incapable of developing. The great powers must furnish both
technical skill and the capital, and this can be done to the
mutual advantage of both, provided the measures adopted for
the protection of investment are just, but they are not likely
to be just unless they are brought under constitutional or in-
ternational control.

The rapid advance of the United States into the Caribbean
has been done in the sacred name of the Monroe Doctrine.
As has been said frequently, the American people do not know
what the Monroe Doctrine is, but they will fight for it at the
crop of a hat. It is obvious, therefore, that if the State De-
partment can bring any Caribbean policy under the ever-
expanding aegis of the Monroe Doctrine, the American people
will be disposed to give it their approval. Prior to the World
War it behooved us to be on our guard against any violation
of the Monroe Doctrine, for there was real danger. After
undertaking the construction of the Canal, Roosevelt was de-
termined, and I think very properly so, that no European
yower should acquire control of any of the approaches to the
Canal. In fact, his Caribbean policy was based entirely on
straight considerations. He certainly was not consciously in-
fluenced by economic interests.

But the situation has undergone a radical change. What
European power since the World War has been in a position
to do anything of which we disapproved in the Caribbean
area? There has not been a time in the century of its ex-
istence when the Monroe Doctrine was safer from European
attack than it is at the present moment, and yet in order to
justify every new move that we make the Caribbean or the
countries bordering in the Caribbean, we invoke the Monroe
Doctrine. This is all pure camouflage. If we could eliminate
the Monroe Doctrine from the discussion of the Caribbean
questions, we would be in a better position to pass on the
policies of the administration. ;

In dispute between American citizens and foreign govern-
ments arising out of loans and investments, the traditional
American policy has been no-intervention, but with the de-
velopment of the United States into a creditor nation, this
policy has undergone a change. The sound principle of caveat
emptor was abandoned by the imperialistic powers of Europe
a generation, or more ago. Latterly we have followed in their
footsteps. Roosevelt at first admitted the right of European
powers to intervene in Latin America for the collection of
debts, providing such intervention did not take the form of
a permanent occupation of territory. Later he changed his
mind and declared that as such intervention would endanger
the Monroe Doctrine, it would be better for the United States
to assume the responsibility of making these states pay their
debts and refrain from disorders which might invite foreign
intervention. To this end he established the Dominican re-
ceivership, and paved the way for much that has since been
done in the name of the Monroe Doctrine. International law
provides no remedy for foreign investors save diplomatic pro-
test, and, where that fails, war. In the absence of treaties of
arbitration covering such cases, a nation still has the right,
through its constituted authorities to declare war on any pre-
tex it chooses. ‘This raises the moral issue. In the recent
controversy with Mexico the Department of State virtually

demanded that Mexico should live up to our standards of jus-
tice and our concepts of law. As a result of John Marshall’s
decisions we have inherited rather rigid concepts of vested
interests and the inviolability and enduring obligation of con-
tracts. We have found relief in later years from the extreme
implications of Marshall’s decisions in the doctrine of police
powers. Have we a right either in law or morals to demand
that a foreign government, in matters affecting our citizens,
shall live up to our concepts of law?

The right of the President to land marines or other armed
forces on foreign territory for the protection of the lives and
tangible property of American citizens against immediate
danger from mob violence or other temporary disorders is
well fortified by a long line of precedents. I have a list of
about eighty-five cases of such use of the armed forces of
the United States. In practically all of these cases the local
government was, for the time being, unable to afford protec-
tion at the place where the troops were landed. In the oil
dispute with Mexico such was not the case. We objected to
a provision in the fundamental constitution of the country
and an act of the legislative body carrying out that provision.
President Coolidge apparently failed to recognize any differ-
ence between an act of the government which he regarded as
confiscatory, and a temporary state of disorder which it is
unable to control. To use the armed forces of the United
States for the purpose of protecting the investments of Amer-
ican citizens against alleged confiscatory acts of a foreign
government is nothing short of war, and should not be un-
dertaken without a formal declaration of war by Congress.
In the Mexican case, President Coolidge declared that the
American people did not believe in the confiscation of pri-
vate property, and that consequently there was nothing to ar-
bitrate with Mexico. We were rapidly drifting toward un-
declared war. As soon as the Senate recognized the aim and
purpose of the administration, it acted with swift decision.
On January 25, 1927, a resolution urging the President to
submit the dispute to arbitration was unanimously adopted.
As a result of this action on the part of the Senate, and a
widespread opposition to the President’s Mexican policy, he
accepted the resignation of Ambassador Sheffield, and sent
Dwight Morrow to Mexico. The conciliatory policy of the
new ambassador has already borne fruit and the Mexican
crisis has passed for the present at least.

It is true that both in Europe and America that imperial-
ism has not yet been brought either under the constitutional
control of states or under international control. The first at-
tempt to bring it under international control is the mandate
system adopted by the league of nations. It is commonly
said by critics of this system that the former German and
Turkish colonies, handed over to England and France, are
as much their possessions as if ceded to them. ‘That may
be true in a sense, but there is this important difference. Eng-
land and France have to render an account of their steward-
ship with the League, and the inhabitants of these mandated
areas have a forum to which they may appeal. Since the
Monroe Doctrine prevents Europe from exercising any con-
trol over what we do in the Caribbean, there is no interna-
tional check upon the power of the President, and through
the recently developed non-recognition policy and the Presi-
dent’s discretionary power to use the marines, it is possible
for the President to wage war against our Southern neigh-
bors without a declaration of war on the part of the Con-
egress. There may be heavy fighting and a long casualty list

without there being any war in the technical sense, for it is

not war unless it is waged against a recognized government.
The President may, therefore, at any time, withdraw recog-
nition from a government which he does not like, recognize
the leader of some faction which is friendly to the United

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI: MAGAZINE

States, and then at the request of the new government, land
marines and crush the opposition.

The policy developed in recent years of refusing to recog-
tiize de facto governments which come into existence as the
result of a revolution or a coup d’etat, has tended to per-
petuate dictatorships and not to promote democracy. We
have at last been forced to recognize this fact, and have de-
cided that it is our duty to supervise elections in disorderly
countries. ‘The supervision of elections in Haiti and Santo
Domingo, and the attempt to hold a plebiscite in ‘Tacne-Arica,
have not succeeded in producing harmony or satisfaction, and
now we are preparing to supervise an election in Nicaragua
contrary to the expressed terms of the Nicaraguan consti-
tution. We are confronted, furthermore by the dilemma. If
the Conservatives win, we will be charged with gross unfair-
ness, because it is generally conceded that the Liberals are
greatly in the majority. If, on the other hand, the Liberals
win, it will be a serious reflection on our policy in having
maintained the Conservatives in power with the aid of ma-
rines.

The recent Pan-American Conference at Havana registered
the high point of North American imperialism. ‘Two impor-
tant proposals in the interest of Pan-American peace and con-
cord came up for discussion and both were defeated by Mr.
Hughes, who did all the talking for the United States dele-
gation. One was a declaration prepared in advance by a com-
mission of jurists, that no state should intervene in the do-
mestic affairs of another state. Two Americans appointed by
the President, Dr. James Brown Scott and Dr. Jesse S.
Reeves, were members of the commission which met at Rio
last year and drafted this declaration. Both signed it with the
understanding that the United States could still intervene in
a disorderly country for the protection of the lives and prop-
erty of foreigners, but -when the proposal came up at Ha-
vana, Mr. Hughes defeated it.

The other proposal, also drafted by a commission of jurists,
provided a general plan of arbitration and conciliation, con-
ferring upon the Pan-American Union powers of conciliation
somewhat similar to, though not as extensive as those exer-
cised by the Council of the League of Nations. The plan
was also defeated or postponed. Mr. Hughes, in the role of
attorney for the United States, through an extraordinary dis-
play of ability, won his case by playing on the jealousies and
special interests of the other states attending the conference.
But was it a good case? A large majority of the delegation
protested with great earnestness against the intervention of
the United States in the internal affairs of other states, as
exemplified in the case of Nicaragua, but the opposition of
the North American delegation, backed by all the power and
financial domination, prevented an adverse vote.

Although the American people profess to believe in open
diplomacy, they were kept in ignorance of what was really
going on at the Havana Conference. The American, press
published only what Mr. Hughes gave out, and the State
Department issued nothing but a brief and wholly inaccurate
“press release.’ The conference adjourned over three months
ago, but the proceedings have not been published. In fact
our government gives the people less information about for-
eign affairs than any of the great governments of the world.
The last volume of “Foreign Relations” is that for the year
1927 and that appeared only a few months ago. Eleven years,
as Mr. Hughes facetiously remarked at the recent meeting
of the American Society of International Law, has a mellow-
ing effect. It takes the edge off of criticism. In recent years
the United States has participated in a number of other im-
portant international conferences, the proceedings of which
have not been, published by our government. In such cases

the American investigator has to rely entirely on the publi-

57

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

Hote. FAaRRAGUT

FARRAGUT OPERATING CO., Props.

Direction Robert R. Meyer

300 Rooms Each with Individual Bath
and Electric Ceiling Fans

MODERN EUROPEAN FIREPROOF

KNOXVILLE, TENN.

 

THREE GAUGES

Three gauges by which to measure
investments are safety, earnings, liq-
uldity.

Measured by all of these standards,
our Certificates of Deposit are good
investments.

PEOPLES NATIONAL BANK
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

58 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

cations of other governments or on the publications of the
Teague of Nations, which are not available except in the
larger libraries.

The prominence given to the Monroe Doctrine in the Sen-
ate debate on the League of Nations convinced our Southern
neighbors that our refusal to enter the League and even to
become a party to the World Court was due to our desire to
have a free hand in Latin America. And they were not wholly
wrong in this conclusion. We refused to co-operate with
Kurope through the League of Nations and the World Court
because of the alleged danger of European entanglements, but
our delegation at the recent Havana Conference opposed the
establishment of an American Court and the reorganization
of the Pan-American Union in order that no international
court or council of conciliation may interfere in any course
we choose to pursue in the Caribbean. When we were a weak
and feeble republic we were the great champions of interna-
tional arbitration. Now that we have become the wealthiest
and most powerful nation on earth, we do not care to be ham-
pered by arbitration treaties, international courts and leagues
cf nations, European or American. As this statement will
doubtless be a surprise to some of you and I have not time
to discuss it at length, I shall simply quote the statements of
a few public men whose authority will doubtless carry weight
and at least convince you that I do not stand alone.

John Bassett Moore, author of “A history and Digest of
International Arbitration to which the United States has been
a party,’ the greatest living authority on the subject, and a
Judge of the World Court, in his volume of essays on “In-
ternational Law and Some Current Illusions,” speaking of the
action of the Senate in amending the Roosevelt arbitration
treaties, says: “The result of this action is that, so far as the
United States is concerned, it is now in actual practice more
difficult to secure international arbitration than it was in the
early days of our independence. Although this statement may
occasion some surprise its absolute correctness may easily be
demonstrated.”

Senator Elihu Root, when advocating the arbitration of the
Panama Tolls dispute with Great Britian, to which the Sen-

ate refused to. consent, exclaimed: “Oh, arbitration when —

we want it, yes; but when another country wants it, ‘Never,
never furl the American flag at the behest of a foreign na-
tion ’”

Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, during the same debate, wrote
as follows to Theodore Roosevelt: “That the United States
which has been loudly boasting that it was the champion of

arbitration, should refuse to enter upon the arbitration of a.

question the moment such question. involves their interest,
places the United States in an attitude of hypocracy which is
very serious and is really revolting.”

Our constitutional machinery for the conduct of foreign
relations does not seem to be working well. ‘The actual con-
duct of foreign relations is placed by the Constitution in the
President’s hands, with almost no limitations except in the
matter of declaring wat or making treaties, but he has al-
most unlimited power of aggression. He may create a situ-
ation which inevitably leads to war, and he may, in fact, wage
war, provided it is not technically called war. But- when it
comes to making peace or providing for the judicial settle-
ment of international disputes, we find the President’s powers
are limited by the Senate, and there is very little that he can
do. In view of this condition, the proposal has been made
that the Constitution be amended so as to provide for the rat-
ification of treaties by the majority of’ both Houses instead of
by a two-thirds vote of the Senate. It is not likely that the
Senate will, within, the lifetime of any of us, agree to any
such change.

 

The remedy, in my opinion, is the development of a strong,
intelligent, well-informed public opinion. In the formulation
of foreign policies the President has a powerful initiative, and
this initiative is backed by all thé agencies of publicity at his
command. The Senate has a temporary veto which it uses
unsparingly. But the ultimate decision of all questions of
permanent interest lies with the people. Public opinion in
this country at the present time is determined largely by prop-
aganda; we may almost say that it is a victim of propaganda.
Now most of us regard propaganda as good or as pernicious
according as to whether we approve or disapprove of the
cause in which it is employed. There is nothing dangerous
about propaganda, provided it is recognized as propaganda
and weighed as such. Discussion is the life of democracy,

and I am a fundamental believer in democracy. I do not be- ©

lieve in the new doctrine of presidential infallibility in for-
eign affairs, advanced by President Coolidge in his address in
May 1927, before the Press Association of New York. We
have recently had a remarkable and encouraging exhibition
of the effective forces of public opinion in the defeat of the
administration’s naval program. Some attribute this result
to the efforts of Mrs. Carrie Chapman Catt and the various
women’s organizations, others to the efforts of the Federal
Council of Churches. The significant fact is that letters and
telegrams poured into Washington in such large numbers that
the President and members of Congress quaked in their boots.
The administration’s naval program was abandoned, and pub-
lic opinion scored a great victory. ‘The American people are
opposed to the Naval program because they are inherently
opposed to war and could see no danger on the horizon. ‘Their
instincts were right, though they were probably not fully
aware of the fact that navies are instruments of policy, that
they are used for war only when diplomats blunder or over-
play their hands, that in the fierce competition for raw mate-
rials navies are great aids to dollar diplomacy and to the
plutocratic interests which reap the main profits of imperial-
ism. ‘The United States and Great Britain are the two great
rival imperialistic nations of the present day, but happily both
people are accustomed to legal and orderly methods of ad-
justing difficulties, and it would be the heighth of folly to in-
terject. naval rivalry into their commercial competition. The
United States should be satisfied with the naval parity, if it
really wishes to preserve world peace.

Since the repudiation of the idealism of Woodrow Wilson
end the “return to normalcy,” there has been little in our
ioreign policy to which a thoughtful and well-informed Amer-
ican can point with pride, but it would be a mistake to be
pessimistic about the future. All the great wars of history
have been followed by periods of more or less extreme re-
action. Since the World War the pendulum has swung far
to the right, but by law as immutable in politics as in physics,
it is destined before long to swing equally far to the left.
Plutocracy, temporarily strengthened by war profiteering will
give place to liberalism. This will not solve the problem of
imperialism, which is based on fundamental economic condi-
tions, but it will bring it under constitutional or international
control and correct many of its abuses. I look forward con-
fidently to the day when the United States will again assume
the moral leadership of the world and justify its faith by its
works, when it will no longer be satisfied with high-sound-

ing profession and declarations, but will actively co-operate

with the only existing agencies for the promotion of world
peace, when it will no longer be, in the words of Elihu Root,
“a dangerous derelict adrift on the high seas of international
intercourse, lying straight across the path of every ship that
sails laden with the precious cargo of international friend-
ship and concord.”

 

THE ALUMNI

OBITUARY

DIED: Dr. J. F. Robertson, ’69, died at his home
in Charlotte, N. C., on Easter morning, April 8th.

Dr. Robertson was vice-president of the Charlotte
National Bank.

DIED: Admiral James H. Oliver, ’72, U. S. Navy,
retired, died at his home, “Shirley,” on the James
River, in May, at the age of 71 years. Admiral Oli-
ver was the first Governor of the Virgin Islands and
a member of the naval board of strategy during the

World War. :

DIED: Ex-Senator George E. Chamberlain, ’76,
died at his Wardman Park Hotel apartment on July
Sth, following a long illness. He was a member of
the U. 8. Shipping Board and during the most trying
period of the World War headed the work of the
Senate Military Committee. Following his election
as member of the Legislature, he was District At-
torney, State Attorney General and Governor before
being elevated to the Senate in 1909. He was re-
elected in 1914. He had served two terms as Gov-
ernor. It was upon his retirement from the Senate
that Mr. Chamberlain was appointed a member of the

Shipping Board, where he served for two years. Fol-.

lowing this period he resumed the practice of Law at
Portland and Washington.

DIED: Edwin A. Sturgis, ’85, died at his home in
Waco, Texas, on March 18th.

DIED: John C. Brock, ’28, senior in the School of
Commerce at W. & L., died at the Jackson Memorial
Hospital, Lexington, Va., on March 10th, following
a short illness of pneumonia. Mr. Brock was from
Harrisonburg, where his body was taken for burial.
He was twenty-two years of age and would have re-

- ceived his B.S. in Commerce in June.

DIED: Lieut.-Colonel Francis T. A. Junkin,
patron of Washington and Lee, died at his home in
Washington, D. C., at the age of 64, and his body was
brought to Lexington and buried here.

He attended Kenyon College, receiving his A.B. and
his A.M. degrees. At Columbia University he re-
ceived his LL.B. and later Washington and Lee, where
his grand-father had served as president before the
Civil War, awarded him the honorary degree of Doc-
tor of Law.

ea Oe
°

MR. WILLIAM J. TURNER, ’03, a former resi-
dent of Lexington, who has for some years held a po-:
sition as general manager of the Pradue Copper Cc.,
at Rancagua, Chile, recently visited Lexington as a
guest at the Pines. He was accompanied by Mrs,
Turner and their two young sons.

MAGAZINE 59

 

 

HOTEL ROBERT E. LEE

Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

Fireproof 100 Rooms

NEW MODERN

 

 

 

 

20 Minutes from Princeton

THE STACY-TRENT
Trenton, N. J.

Trenton’s Finest Hotel
Absolutely Fireproof

300 Baths

Delightfully — situated
facing the Delaware
River, Stacy Park,
State House and Co-
lonial Barracks.

300 Rooms

   

Two Large Dining

A Rooms
AI aie and
Sabie 4 STRE 7 Coffee Room

The Most Convenient
First Class Hotel to Princeton

L. W. PARSONS, Manager

 

 

 

PERSONALS
DR. J. M. BANNISTER, ’74, of Omaha, Ne-

braska, is the creator of the original work on the sub-_

ject of the dynamics of the ocular muscles and in con-
nection with operative procedures for the correction
of anomalies of the same. Also plastic work on the
nose to relieve deformities of the same by the use of
bone and ivory implants. ,

Dr. Bannister is a member of the American Col-

lege of Surgeons.

DR. EMMETT W. McCORKLE, ’74, of Rock-
bridge Baths, recently attended the annual meeting of
the United Confederate Veterans of the South, in
which organization he holds the office of assistant
chaplain.

MISS BLANCHE McCRUM, who spent the past
year in Boston engaged in study, has returned to her
home in Lexington and will resume, at the opening
of the coming session, her duties as librarian at
Washington and Lee.

DR. WILLIAM E. DOLD, "6, of New York
City, qualified for membership in Phi Beta Kappa on
June 11th, at the University of Virginia.

DR. and MRS. SIDNEY T. MORELAND, ’76,

of Knoxville, Tenn., were recent visitors with Mrs.

Moreland’s sister, Mrs. William M. Junkin in Lex-_

ington.

JUDGE JAMES QUARLES, ’87, of Milwaukee,
Wisconsin, represented Washington and Lee at the
inauguration of William M. Magee, S. J., as Presi-
dent of Marquette University, on April 22, 1928, at
Milwaukee.

BRX-SENATOR MILES POINDEXTER, 91,
once Washington’s favorite son in a presidential cam-
paign, is back home campaigning to regain his old
seat in the senate, having resigned his position as am-
bassador to Peru, which he had held for five years.

A. W. SHIELDS, 791, of Toledo, Ohio, was ap-
pointed to represent Washington and Lee at the inau-
guration of Dr. Henry John Deormann, President of

the University of the City of Toledo, on March 19th.

W. H. WINFREE, 92, recently visited Washing-
ton and Lee, stopping by to see old friends and ac-
quaintances. Mr. Winfree is president of the Puget
Sound Title Insurance Company, which was the first

company to take photographic records of real estate |

titles, and thus doubly ensure the security of these
documents. It was through Mr. Winfree’s original-
ity and direction that this system, which is now so
widely used by title insurance companies, came into
general use.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W. E. HARRIS, ’93, is editor of the Progress In-
dex, daily paper of Petersburg, Va.

WILLIAM McCHESNEY MARTIN, 795, Gov-
ernor of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, Mo.,
with his family, was a visitor in Lexington during the
week-end of July 7th.

S. A. THOMPSON, ’96, is practicing law in Stu-
art, Va. He is Mayor of the town, is an ordained
elder in the Baptist Church and is pastor of two
churches. :

DR. WILLIAM R. VANCE, 96, of the Yale Law
School, writes us: “Enclosed is $4.00 for two years’
subscription to the ALUMNI MaGazINnE which I en-
joy greatly. I occasionally talk about W. & L. U.
matters with EKugene A. Nabors and Harry Pfeffer
(both B.A. ’26) who are members of the third year
class in the Yale Law School, and Wilson I. Hurt
(V. M.1., ’25, W. & L., ’29) who is in the second
year class. I suppose you know that Ran T. Shields,
B.A., ’96, Dean of the Medical School of Shantung
Christian University, is now in this country on a
year’s leave.

An order of the War Department assigned LIEU-
TENANT-COLONEL W. D. A. ANDERSON, ’97,
to duty of district engineer at Mobile, effective July
15. He is at present serving as assistant commandant
of the engineers’ school at Fort Humphreys, Va.
Colonel and Mrs. Anderson were the guests of Hon.
and Mrs. William A. Anderson, ’61, the latter part of
June.

COL. GEORGE M. BROOKE, ’97, retired, of the
Army, and his family have come to Lexington from
Waco, Texas, and are occupying the Brooke home,
long the home of Col. John M. Brooke of the V. M.
I. faculty, on the Institute grounds. They expect to
make Lexington their home.

RT. REV. WILLIAM G. McDOWELL, D.D.,
02, Bishop Coadjutor of Alabama, and a former
Lexingtonian, received his Phi Beta Kappa key at the
spring initiation.

DR. W. G. PENDLETON, ’03, for eight years
headmaster of Virginia Episcopal School, Lynchburg,
Va., has accepted a call to the rectorship of the New
Grace Memorial Episcopal Church of Lynchburg.

FE, SOUTHARD SHIELDS, ’05, president of the
Planters Bank of Farmville, was elected President ci
the Virginia State Bankers’ Association Saturday at
the closing session of the annual meeting at Hampton.
Mr. Snieids is a Lexington boy, son of the late Col-
onel William ‘TI. Shields. For several years he prac-

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ticed Jaw in Lexington, at one time being mayor of
the town. Fifteen years ago he went to Farmville to
enter the banking business in which he has been suc-
cessful. He has been prominent in the bankers’ as-
sociation for some years.

H. CRIM PECK, ’07, attended the state golf
tournament held at Hot Springs, Va., during the first
week in July.

JUDGE E. C. CAFFREY, ’09, represented Wash-
ington and Lee University at the Tenth Anniversary

of the Founding of the New Jersey College for
Women, on May 10th.

ROBERT H. SPAHR, ’09, who for the past
three years has been with the Washington, D. C.,
Chamber of Commerce in charge of employer-em-
ployee relations service, 1s now in charge of a na-
tional study of non-collegiate education to be con-
ducted through the Society for the Promotion of
Engineering Education, the study to be financed by
the Carnegie Corporation, New York. His head-
quarters are in the Engineering Societies Building,

33 West 39th Street, New York.
REV. B. L. WOOD, 10 Gt. Buchanan, Va.,

writes us: “My most recent achievement has been
renewing subscription to the ALUMNI MaGazIne. It
is something more than an achievement—the Maca-
ZINE, I mean. It is ‘A hit! a hit! a very palpable
hit!’ (That was Shakespeare’s way of describing a
three-bagger) and ‘Alumni Headquarters’ is a home

39

run.

DR. NELSON BELL, 712, medical missionary
to China, was in town this spring, accompanied by
his family.

PROF. FREEMAN H. HART, 712, of Hamp-
den-Sidney College, has been made a member of the
staff of the University of Virginia, division of ex-
tension work. He will carry on this work in con-
nection with his duties at Hampden-Sidney.

WALLACE RUFF, 714, formerly of Lexington,
is now practicing law in Miami, Fla., having formed
a law partnership with A. B. Small and C. C. Small
of that city.

A. S.- JOHNSTON JR. 1/7, is “Editor of the
Raleigh Register, Beckley, West Va. Mr. Johnston
was formerly Private First Class, Washington and
Lee Ambulance section.

MR. and MRS. EVAN S. McCORD, ’17, were
visitors at the home of Mr. Wm. L. McElwee, Lex-
ington, Va., for a few days during July. Mr. Mc-
Cord is engaged in the practice of Law in Fort
Worth, Texas. )

6l

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND

PRINTERS

Office Equipment and Supplies

ROYAL
TYPEWRITERS

DALTON
ADDING MACHINES

SURBER ©
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

62 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

CHARLES McNITT, 717, having completed his
internship at Bellevue Hospital in New York, will
spend the summer as “doctor” for a group of 50
boys on a 600 mile Yellowstone and Rocky Mountain
saddle-camp trip.

WILLIS EVERETT, ’21, writes from his law
office in Atlanta, Ga.: “Plenty to do all the time;
abstracts and titles mostly for our loans.
court practice when I can’t get out of it. Attorney
for the Continental Casualty Co. and adjust all their
claims. Various army activities in the Reserves.
Do a plenty of church work, Deacon of the Presby-
terian Church, serving’ on Finance Committee and
Chairman of Property Committee (as assistant Jan-
itor), etc. General Secretary of the Sunday School,
teaching class also. Nothing to do Sunday except

hear how dirty or cold something is. Wife still liv-

ing with me and a sure enough beautiful Beta girl
4 years old. Dead broke all the time, can’t make
money fast enough. I hate to be alone in this re-
spect.’

PROF. W. B. HESSELTINE, ’22, received the

Ph.D. at Ohio State University at Columbus. Dr.

Hesseltine will teach at the University of Chatta-
nooga next winter. :

RAYMOND (TOBE) TERRY, ’22, is in the
Real Estate business in Birmingham, Ala. He is
also the proud father of a fine little boy.

FRANK BOWERS, ’23, of Drexel, N. C., writes
us that he is “struggling hard with the Drexel
Knitting Mills.”

GEORGE T. HOLDBROOK, ’23, of Hartford,
Conn., has donated to the Law School a valuable col-
lection of textbooks.

“STUDENT” FREW, ’24, wrote from Spartan-
burg, S. C.: “I am coaching freshman football and
basketball and Varsity baseball down here at Wot-
ford College. In the summer I play with the Spar-
tanburg Ball Club and fool the public.”

THERON HARRELL, ’25, has been transferred
from Norfolk to Richmond, where he is connected
with the Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Com-

pany.
TONY MOTTER, ’26, is in Chicago working on

an advertising project for the House of Kuppen-
heimer.

MR. JAMES DeHART, former football coach at
Washington and Lee, recently passed through Lex-

Some

ington with his bride. Mr. and Mrs. DeHart were
married in Durham, N. C.

B. G. WATKINS, ’26, of Charlotte, N. C., a law
graduate and former assistant professor at W. & L.,
has announced his candidacy for the House of Rep-
resentatives of North Carolina.

Mr. Watkins has a B.A. from Roanoke College
and a Master of Arts in History and _ Political
Science from Columbia University. He was as-
sistant Professor of History and Political Science of
Washington and Lee for three years and since has
practice law in Virginia and North Carolina and
served a year with the Marines in the World War.

While here, Watkins was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Phi Alpha Delta, and was president of the
intermediate law class. He is a member of the Pi
Kappa Alpha social fraternity.

MR. and MRS. L. VAUGHAN GRADY, ’27,
of Jonesboro, Ark., were recent visitors in Lexing-
ton. ,

GEORGE HARSH, ’29, is practicing law in the
office of Harsh, Harsh and Harsh, Memphis, ‘Tenn.

A. C. SMELTZER, ’29, has been connected with
the J. M. Rose Furniture Company, Inc., of Abing-
don, Va., since October, 1927.

JOHN M. RICHARDSON, ’30, of Martinsville,
Va., is connected with the Acme Motor Company,
authorized Ford dealers.

DAN O’FLAHERTY, ’30, has been with The
Home News of New York ever since leaving school.
He says newspapers are hard to get away from, even

for a few days.

Be J ee ee
¢

FINIS

You have read this issue of the ALUMNI MaGa4ziINnE.
Did you enjoy it? Did it recall forgotten memories or
bring news of a classmate with whom you have long
been out of contact? Did it inform you of the present
conditions and affairs of the college of which you
were once a part? We hope so. ;

Also we hope that you will want to receive the
MacazINeE every month during the college year and
cnce each summer. If so please remember to send us
word to that effect. Just send your check for $2.50
(For one year) or $4.00 (For two years) to the
Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

\/
—_———_4,
ee

 

Make monthly publication of the MAGazINE pos-
sible; send in your subscription today; rates $2.50
per year, $4.00 for two years.

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

“McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Onexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

e

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

 

Quality

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Service

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

‘Reasonable Prices

 

 

 

 

Fone: ae Oa, Ee ET ee ae

 

 

 

 

SOCIETY BRAND
CLOTHES

FLORSHEIM SHOES
re DOBBS HATS

W. & L. Alumni Know the Quality of Our

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Merchandise
: We Will Appreciate Your Visit When in
Lexington
bg
J. M. MEEKS
107 Nelson Street, West : Phone 295

 

 

 

 

HOTEL LAFAYETTE

Lexington, Kentucky

THE LAFAYETTE is the finest and most conveniently lo-
cated Hotel in Lexington. Three hundred beautifully furnished

rooms, with private baths, circulating ice water, and outside ex-
posure. It is always Headquarters for “THE GENERAIS”

when in Kentucky.

Len Shouse, Jr., Manager

 

 

 

