 

 

Pa
+9

 

 

t ‘
‘emer Fosnen

A : : as ington and Lee U niversity LEXINGTON, VA. 244 ;

 

Sire ys.

 

 

Volume it NOVEMBER, 1927

JUN

 

 

 

 

   

i

     
    
  

   
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
  
   
   

     
     
 

    
    
   

 

        

      

 

       
     
   

         

    

Pen <A
Si Sms x
ope LeL eae 22
CLL ey, cts
os ae Cte A = ge at peat
AD Sei eSceeee ;
Fig tacte EAI cn od Se ey
tes % Sm
Gs EB eee,
eee

plc, OI Ped ne ging
ye Alt Cocmroge tl 2 é
EAI I iy ee

LG EERE GES
ee ee EE
fe ae ney Bee Leg Nez
EEE in ee Oe
ipa Es

  
 
   
  
   
   

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 

 
    

     
  

s
Ae a

Se
OS
Red
Eee
AK
)

SOS a Hi ‘
Wee
x
iS
Y

    
 
 

  

Se
BS
iz
ss
ne
.
ASIN
Ra
i NS
ee
;

 
   

a

‘

  

   
    

 
  

i

   

e
i
ht

   

AG
MN

  
   
 

K)
¥
S

   

\4
A}
ie

   
 
 

 
 

SEER ae
ge Fe 08 wel Fits

 
     
  
 
 
 

  

    

Sains
Be
eae
“Ligh erie ve
MLS LOF
£ SS

   

an

  

s
a oa
ae nae arts
ne ae x
2 aa epee Ae

ee
Se
i:

 

TE HE Memoria, GATEWAY

“The Latch String Is Out’—November 5th

sacha acai IESE
es ig Z

   

50c

        
  
   
  
 

  
 
 

Per Copy

a awe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This sivcntoee is published for the purpose of Aiordios a convenisat guide to Washington and Lee alumni of

the various professions who may wis

at a distance, or of a special professional character.
tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni Oo

rectory. Rates on application.

h to secure reliable correspondents of “the same profession to transact business
Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-
{ the same profession are invited to place their. cards in the di-

 

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
Avrorney-at-LAw

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg,
dltlantic City, N. ie |

& TE. MOORE

_ Artonney -A'-LAW

Suite 303 Hive Native! Bank Bldg. a

o Bluefield, W. Va.

‘EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, 1g and 22
Coa Ae iaaw
DovcLas, ” Osgar & Doveuas |

Southern Buil eS Washington, DO:

 

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAWYER

General practice in all State and
‘Federal Courts

i Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust a ‘Bin
3 Huntington, W est Virginia

, New York Office: 61 Broadway
‘Sruart Curvaligr, 03—

“MILLER AND CHEVALIER

ArroxNeys AND CouNsELORS AT Law
Southern Building, Washington, D. C ie

ROBERT B : B. MeDOUGLE S
ATTORNEY: At- ae

ae ae: Ces National Bank ‘Building,
Parkersburg, W. Va.

 

. JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE
Citrus Exchange Building, &
Tampa, Florida

Ww. H. Jackson, 08

 

JOHN C. HERNDON, JUNIOR»

_AccounTANTS AND Avprtors :
Tax CONSULTANTS

| Bankers Trust Building,

| Walnut 6400-6401

a Ww. Duras 21 :

JAMES R. CASKIE, 09
_ Arrornry AT Law

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia :

PAUL c BUFORD, JUNIOR, ’
 Artornty at Law |

7 ee Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia —

 

Philadelphia ie

| James E. Smitherman ae

7 7 ‘Compliments of the President op the |

: oe Alumni, Inc.

xs © CAFFREY,

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL, |
Sea, anp Dick
Attorneys at Law
General practice in ‘the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
. Departments |
Aulocite Income Tax Specialists
1100 Invesiment Building,

 

"ALEX M. HITZ

| Attorney AT Lay

- 210 Alani Trusi Cone Building, She

Atlanta, Georgia ee

John H. Tucker, Jr., 710

: David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND. TUCKER
Law OFFICES ©

Commercial National Bank Building co

Shreveport, Lowsiana

 

mee

CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN, ‘15 |
2 _ Arrorney at LAW
Suite 479 Mills Building,

San ae sco, aa

 

 

 

W ashington, D. C.

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WI ITTEN,

_ General Agent
“Department of Southern Ohio

‘40

: Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company |

W. and L,, Virginia, CiaGanst oe
one or two openings for exceptionally good collses men.

1625, Union Trust Building
3 Cincinnati

Harvard ‘sud Ohio State are represented in this Agency.
Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

There are usually

 

 

 

 

 

 

E. P. DAVIS, President C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

HEADQUARTERS FOR THE VIRGINIA GAME

MAIL ORDERS FOR

RECORD, W. and L. Swing by W. and L. Orchestra—50c. prepaid
SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00

Promptly Filled
M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY »

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
B.C. Carrrey, President VERBON FE. Kemp, Editor
FE. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer Dora Wirt, Associate Editor
Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

PAGE PAGE
We Vee a a ee a a 5 Newhin D, Baker, Speaker 2605 30 2k
Braxton D. Gibson, Donor of Rowing Trophy... .6-7 Bo Loe ee ee Ze
Miseetlaneous: toeal News oe. e ee ae 8 Back, in the Seventies 0) ee ie
Change.in College Schedule 0 so... 7 Dave Pipes ae 24
Meeting of Board Of Prastees. so ria. oe. 0 NORE is a oa i Fw re es ce Zo
PONG a a 10-14 TORMY SalgbeOw (0 el Co ae Oe
Field Bridpe under Construction ............ 6. Ls Alutiimus Protests Chapel Admission ......2;..< 27
Iritelltgence’ Teste 0. a oe 16 Thee Ce a a 28-29
Local ASsSe@Clatons 5.0.05. ok a 17 Colgion O01 bee Reacg oe 30
Martin P.. Burks, 111, Matriculated ). 53.00) 19 The Sculptor of the Recumbent Statue ........ 32
We: “Tayloe a a ee 20 A WS eae 33-38

 

 

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
ook eneral Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
‘(General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

 

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

THE Crass 727-31 Bripck

From the New Stadium to the Gym—Now under Construction

   

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE |

 

Vot. Il

NOVEMBER, 1927

No. 5

 

THe ALUMNI Macazing, Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

 

The Year

Much building and repair was done on the campus
during the summer.

Tourists thronged through Lexington. Ten thou-
sand registered at the Lee Chapel during July, twelve
thousand during August. No chapel admission fee
was charged.

Faculty members returned from vacations abroad.
Gloucester, Marblehead, Atlantic City, Colorado
Springs; from summer school teaching positions; from
summer university study.

Football candidates reported to Coach Herron on
September 6th, jealously eyed the soft green turf of
new Wilson field as they bounced and rolled over the
rugged old field in strenuous practice.

Fraternity house managers, rushing managers, pub-
lication managers, athletic managers drifted in, opened
fraternity houses. Victrolas creaked into life.

Three hundred young strangers lined up for intelli-
gence tests, registration, matriculation; donned fresh-
man caps. ‘Thirty strangers more sophisticated, ma-
triculated, donned no caps.
(from other colleges).

Old students straggled back, brought the registra-
tion figure up to eight hundred sixty-five.

Students and faculty, old and new, assembled at the
gymnasium, formally opened the 179th session of
Washington and Lee University. “Y” Secretary C.
H. Patterson, 19, and Lexington ministers were intro-
duced ; cheer leaders led the assembly in a yell, in sing-
ing the “Swing”; freshman rules were laid down; the
automatic rule and the “cut system” were explained.
President Henry Louis Smith eloquently pointed out
the six essentials of college manhood. The assembly
was opened and closed with prayer.

Football prospects were colorless. Lynchburg? Col-
lege “set up’ opener was decisively defeated. West
Virginia, ancient rival, no “set up,” was met at Charles-
ton, West Va., was tied 6-6, was outplayed. Jimmy
DeHart, able, popular, Generals’ mentor until 1926,
brought his Duke “Blue devils” to Lexington fresh
from victory over Boston University, suffered a hard
fought defeat, 12-7. Prospects brightened, glowed in-
to red hot enthusiasm, were tempered by the Princeton
defeat.

Braxton D. Gibson, bow oar on the 1880 University

They were “transfers”
y

of Virginia crew, came to Lexington from Charles
Town, West Va., presented the W. & L. athletic asso-
ciation with a handsome silver trophy cup to be a per-
petual award to the winning boat crew in the com-
mencement races each year.

Work proceeded on the Wilson field gymnasium
foot bridge under direction of the Luten Bridge Com-
pany of Knoxville, Tenn., from August 31st. They
contracted completion of the 550x12 foot span in re-
enforced concrete within 100 working days at a cost of ©
$30,900.

Students assembled, heard able student body presi-
dent EF. H. Miller, explain the principles of student
government, heard W. J. Dorsey and Robert F. Howe
on dance control regulations, heard R. A. Smith report
on the Class Bridge Fund. ;

A total of 874 students had matriculated by October
15th; a noticeable decrease in attendance (about thirty-
five) from last year. Viewed with alarm or with ap-
probation according to the point of view, the situation
reflected the rigid admission policy now in full effect.

Announcement was made that the Alumni Building
(old McLaughlin house) would be formally opened
with a buffet luncheon to all visiting alumni on Home-
coming (Virginia game) day, Saturday, November
Sth.

Trustees assembled for a special meeting, reconsid-
ered their chapel admission fee enactment, upheld it
for execution upon order, authorized the placing of
boxes for voluntary contributions in the chapel in the
meantime; appointed a committee to confer with the
Va. Division, U. D. C.; appropriated funds for repair
and rehabitation of grounds and buildings.

ee

J. J. Kelley, Jr., 12, is superintendent of the pub-
lic schools of Wise County, Virginia, and president
of the Virginia Teachers’ Association.

 

William lL. Harrell, ’14, who has been in bad
health for several years at U. S. Veterans Hospital
in Oteen, N. C., is back in Norfolk, Va., having been
discharged from the hospital last spring. He is
principal of one of the Norfolk public schools.

. THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Presentation Address by Braxton D. Gibson, Donor of the Perpetual
Rowing Trophy

Members of the Harry Lee and the Albert Sidney
Boat Clubs.

Greetings and congratulations to the crews of

1927:

You have rowed a good race. Your alert minds in
vigorous bodies with full force of the oars rushed
your boats in a spirited contest. The clubs can be
proud of their crews. ‘To speed the course quite un-
der five minutes time gives us a fast record.

Hurrah for the colors of the Harry Lee and the
Albert Sidney Boat Clubs! Ovid says that a brave
man finds a home in every land. We can well say
that a hero in Collegiate contests will have a place in
the hearts and memories of all students.

In a conflict of rivalry, both sides cannot win. ‘The
battle is lost and won. Not all to the victors. The
losers can feel emotion of praise in a great, zealous
effort to reach the goal.

As a man planneth, hopeth and striveth for success,
so is his act and the result duly evaluated. Many
great deeds are done in the struggles for victory
falling short of success. ‘The pursuit of adventure
has its joy in the uncertainty. To the victors, the
laurel wreath. ‘To the defeated, the acclaim of well-
done !

I salute the crew of the Harry Lee as the proud
representatives of their rowing club on this day of
triumph. It gives me pleasure to recognize your
prowess on the race course. Your brain and brawn,
under the control and power of alert minds in strong
bodies have given you the success that you hoped for,
when faith led you to careful training and application
of skill and adaptation of power.

You have been hoping and striving for what you
now possess,—the glory of real victory. And you
are entitled to receive on behalf of your Boat Club,
this beautiful sterling silver cup which I present as a
perpetual trophy to be awarded annually to the win-
ning boat club at the boat races at Washington and
Lee University.

L deposit this trophy in your hands. A reward of
victory and a symbol of honor. ‘Treasure it. Hand
it on to your successors from year to year. And may
it ever be a pleasure to remember this interesting event
in University life.

May the joys of this happy day make more perfect
the mystic tie that binds you to Alma Mater, and weld
completely the link of loyalty in devotion and helpful
work.

The names of this Harry Lee crew are recorded:
The first winners of the Gibson Trophy. A. W. Pier-

 

TropHy Curp—‘To the Victors”

 

 

pont, bow; George Dean Varney, No. 2; R. Maynard
Holt, No. 3; John Seymour Letcher, stroke; and J.
D. Reed, Jr., coxswain. In the race of June 6th, 1927.
To each of the crew I give a photo of the trophy cup,
to keep among their souvenirs of University days.

In the might of youth in valor, virtue and joy, hand

down to your followers the fidelity that never fails

and the courage that never falters.
be!

College sports lead the surest way to the “Mens sana
in corpore sano” of the poet’s picture of perfected
mortal.

There we find freedom in co-operation; brotherly
association in rival contests; and promotion of friend-
ship among opponents. |

A mind of health is a mind of freedom. A body of
health is a body of strength. The strength of free-
dom is the preserver of liberty of thought in the spirit
of truth.

Sometimes in idle thought these contests are de-
nominated as physical only. But they are far more
than bodily. Success is based on physical and mental
co-ordinated efforts. Natural stamina and acquired
action. Sportsmanship; comradeship; the beacons of

So might it ever

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Col. Braxton D. Gibson Gives Handsome Crew HEY

As a perpetual rowing trophy, Mr. Braxton D.
Gibson, friend and patron, of Charles Town, West
Va. has given a handsome silver cup to symbolize the
victory of each winning crew in the annual boat races
at Commencement each year.

This is a spontaneous gift from Col. Gibson and
was prompted by his interest in the grand sport of
rowing. ‘That interest goes back to his student days
at the University of Virginia. A sentimental interest
is attached to the date of the gift, for it was in 1877,
fifty years ago, that Col. Gibson joined the boat club
at the University of Virginia and began his career of
rowing, he being a member of the victorious Virginia

crews of 1878, ’79 and ’80, in which last year he was

stroke in the big race at Fredericksburg, Va. In 1881
he stroked the four-oared shell crew of the L’Hiron-
delle in regatta races at Baltimore and in the regatta at
Richmond on the James.

Col. Gibson is now past seventy, but has not lost
any of his love and enthusiasm for college sports and
athletics in which he took such active part. He is an
able lawyer and a popular citizen of Charles Town.

The cup, as shown on the opposite page, is of sterling
silver, 15 inches high, 6%4 inches in diameter, and
stands on a 4-inch ebony base. It is of beautiful de:
sign with a four-oared crew in action handsomely
etched on one side and with especially suitable engrav-
ing on the other.

Col. Gibson motored to Lexington and with Alumni
Secretary Verbon E. Kemp, presented the cup to Prof.
Forest Fletcher and R. A. Smith who received it on
behalf of the W. & L. Athletic Association. It is

 

 

the spiritual guiding the physical in thorough, honest
and true free service for others as well as for self.
They build up character on a genuine foundation. As
long as memory remains among the virtues of man-
kind, the visions of your mind will be bright and ra-
diant in meditation over the signal labors that it has
been your duty and pleasure to perform for your
Alma Mater.

There are many delightful memories of University
associations. Once a student, always a student. The
mind holds to the past.

Ringing down through the years comes to me the
cheering yell of the greatest amateur trainer and
coach, John Redwood. He belonged to the L’Hiron-
delle Boat Club of Baltimore, and during his vacation
from business he would come and train our crew. He
had a wonderful stroke. He took the best of the Ox-
ford and Harvard strokes and formed a stroke better
and more effective than either of them.

As coxswain of the crew, his call in clear, inspiring
voice 1s worthy of notation:

 

Braxton D. Grpson

66

—— has not losteeenen... fove...., enthusiasm”

 

 

hoped that Col. Gibson will be on hand to present the
trophy in person to the winners of 1928 race next
Commencement.

 

 

 

“Steady. Reach Out. Firm Grip. Quick Catch. Long
Stroke.

Flard Pull. Strong Pull. All the Way Through. All
Together.”

I am glad to announce that in the organization of
the Boat Club at the University of Virginia, we had
the assistance of two of the Washington and Lee oars-
men: Wm. J. L’Engle of the Albert Sidney crew of
18/6; and R. D. Shepherd of the Harry Lee of 1877.
And the bow oar in the first racing crew of the Uni-
versity of Virginia in 1877, was pulled by William J.
L’ Peete.

Here now in closing this celebration, let us say in
the sentiment of Horace,

Dulce et decorum est pro Alma Matre laborare.

And in the words of Virgil let the content of our
wishes be,
Flaec olim meminisse juvabit.

Braxton D. Grpson.

 

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FACULTY HOLDS FIRST RECEPTION OF
CURRENT YEAR

Following the custom set last year, the Faculty held
its annual reception in the Y. M. C. A. room. All
members of the Faculty and their wives were present,
making this entertainment one which surpassed even
the first one. ‘This was given principally in honor of
the new members of the Faculty and administration.

The reception was under the direction of Professor
Latture and Mr. Craig Patterson, secretary of the
Y. M.C. A. They were assisted in arranging the
evening’s program by Mr. Mattingly and Professor
Coan. The object of the committee, however, was not
to arrange a lengthy program, but to provide an even-
ing which would be a social meeting for all members
of the faculty. This was the intention with which the
entertainments were begun last year.

The two receptions which have been held have met
with so much favor that the Faculty will probably con-
tinue to hold some such affair at the beginning of each
school year. In this way the new members become
socially acquainted with the other faculty members in
addition to being acquainted with them in a business
way.

 

RALPH DAVES, ’24, MANAGES LOCAL
THEATRES

The New and Lyric Theatres of Lexington recently
sold to the Shenandoah Pictures Corporation, are now
under the management of Ralph I. Daves, ’24, star
end on Generals elevens of ’23 and ’24. Under his
management the New Theatre, favorite student pas-
time, has been completely renovated. ‘The entire in-
terior has been repainted in purple and gold; new
scenery, maroon drapes hung, and new projection
equipment installed. The lobby has been enlarged
and two ticket booths built facing the front side-walk.

 

CAST SELECTED FOR FALL SHOW OF
THESPAINS

At the second tryout for the Troubadours which
was held in the lower corridor of Newcomb hall Thurs-
day night, September 29th, all the cast, except one, was
selected for the Thanksgiving production, to be staged
at the New Theatre, on November 26th, this being the
afternoon preceding the second dance of the Thanks-
giving set.

The production is a three act farce by Owen Davis,
under the title of “Rasy Come, Easy Go.” The play
has been secured for presentation under special ar-
rangement with Samuel French, of New York, and ts
expected to score a hit as it is one full of humorous
situations and unforeseen complications, which present
themselves at the most unexpected times.

CAPTAIN C. F. WHITTED BUYS ROBERT
E. LEE HOTEL

Captain C. F. Whitted, manager of the Robert F.
Lee hotel at Lexington, has bought out the entire
issue of common stock in the hotel. ‘The common
stock issue was $50,000, and by its purchase, Captain
Whitted takes over absolute control of the properties
as all voting powers were vested in the common stock.

Captain Whitted came to Lexington last fall as
manager of the hotel when it was first opened. He
was sent to Lexington by the owners from the Wil-
liam Byrd hotel at Richmond, which he managed suc-
cessfully for the owners. He has had previous ex- .
perience in the hotel business in a number of places.

The common stock was bought from Richmond in-
terests who promoted the enterprise. John E. Galle-
her, one of the original promoters, sold out in July to
Thomas Gresham and other interested parties. Un-
der the new management, Mr. Gresham remains as
president of the corporation and Lee Paschal as vice-
president, with Captain Whitted as _ secretary-treas-
urer and manager. Captain Whitted will continue the
active manager of the hotel.

 

SCENIC CAVERNS NEAR LEXINGTON

The large and picturesque caverns discovered on a
farm near Lexington a few years ago are to be devel-
oped by a newly formed corporation which recently
purchased the caverns from ©. P. Showalter, owner
of the farm. The development will be known as the
Lee-Jackson Caverns. ‘They are situated on the Lee
Highway two miles southwest of Lexington.

It is understood that the company proposes to begin
improvements on the property at an early date. The
extensive cave is to be completely lighted and made
accessible. A dance hall and other resort features are
to be added.

 

MORE THAN 12,000 VISITORS AT LEE
CHAPEL IN AUGUST

All records were broken in registration of visitors
at Lee Chapel during August when 12,747 registered.
This is the largest month in the history of the regis-
tration, and illustrates the marked increase in travel!
through Lexington. During August, 1926, a total of
550 visitors registered. It can be safely supposed
that no more than half of the travelers who pass
through Lexington register at the chapel. Most of
this travel comes along the Lee highway, and when
the Midland Trail is opened a great increase is ex-
pected.

During July 9,021 visitors were enrolled. Among
the many visitors registered was Mrs. Robert M.
Crumley, of Atlanta, who is a granddaughter of Gen-
eral foe Wheeler of Confederate fame.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

CHANGE IN COLLEGE SCHEDULE
PROPOSED

The University Faculty is seriously considering a
change in the daily schedule of classes to take effect
next September. Heretofore classes have met hourly
from 9 A. M. until 2 P. M. with laboratory periods,
-athletics or rest to occupy the afternoon. If the
change is effected students will breakfast at 8 A. M.,
meet classes at 8:30 A. M: or at one hour intervals
thereafter, lunch at 12:30 P. M., resume class work
from 1:30 to 3:30 P. M. then take up laboratory work
or athletics or go to the movies.

The idea of the change in the working schedule of
the entire university first came up for discussion here
ten or twelve years ago, but lapsed because there was
at that time no real pressing need of the change. Again,
about five years ago, the same matter became the sub-
ject of faculty consideration, but again was left with-
out final action being taken on it. The proposal to in-
augurate the new division of the day is therefore not
a new one.

The outline of the change contemplated is given
somewhat as follows:

The class day will be divided into six periods of one
hour each, running four in the morning and two in
the afternoon. The morning lecture periods would
start at 8:30, 9:30, 10:30 and 11:30, and the hour be-
tween 12:30 and 1:30 would be taken out for lunch.
Classes would resume at 1:30 and the two afternoon
hours would be over at 3:30. Whether or not all
schools in the university would require the use of the
entire six periods allotted is a matter of detail to be
worked out later if the initial proposal meets with
favorable action.

Three main purposes, enumerated at the time the
suggestion was brought to the attention of the faculty
as a whole, are given for the action. ‘They were:

1. To relieve the existing congestion and conflicts
of classes, and to thus make possible greater freedom
in the choice of electives.

2. To divide the day so as to eliminate the waste
and discomfort of the present long period between
breakfast and lunch, thus enabling students and in-
structors to make more economic and effective use of
their time.

3. To bring the university day and program more
nearly into line with conditions of actual life.

If adopted, there would remain much detailed work
to be done in the way of readjusting classes and sec-
tions, and in equalizing the work and hours among the
instructoral force at hand.

All phases of the matter are being thoroughly looked
into, and culminative as well as the individual effects
of any change are being carefully studied. The
affairs of all phases of campus activity, both scholastic

and extra-curricular, will be studied in the light of the
proposal. 7

 

MEETING OF BOARD OF TRUSTEES

At a meeting of the board of trustees of Washing-
ton and Lee held in Lexington, Tuesday, October
llth, a committee of Trustees, George W. St. Clair.
William A. Anderson, William A. MacCorkle, George
Bolling Lee and W. Mc. White, was appointed to con-
fer with the Virginia Division of the United Daugh-
ters of the Confederacy with reference to Lee chapel
and matters pertaining to it. It is presumed that the
question of an admission charge will be discussed with
the daughters by the committee.

An appropriation of $1,000 was made for the pur-
chase of the collection of Confederate mementos
offered the University by E. Titus Black through Dr.
William M. Brown, and Dr. Brown was authorized to
make the purchase for the Lee museum. |

A resolution was adopted by the board appropriat-
ing $5,000.00 toward the improvement of the roads
and walkways through the campus. Stating that the
condition of the roads made a bad impression called
for a like annual appropriation until the roads and
walks were put in good condition. Professor Hale
Houston was requested to present a plan to the execu-
tive committee for the improvements and the execu-
tive committee was empowered to act in the matter,
the work to be started as soon after Jan. 1, 1928 as
practicable.

Trustees John S. Munce, Hugh B. Sproul and Wil-
ham A. MacCorkle were appointed as a committee to
bring in nominations for a member to fill the vacancy
on the board caused by the death of Trustee Frank T.
Glasgow. |

Judge Charles J. McDermottt was authorized and
requested to express to the alumni of New York and
Brooklyn at their annual banquet to be held Thursday.
Oct. 11, the appreciation of the board for the support
these alumni have always given the University.

A committee composed of Judge McDermott, James
R. Caskie and Paul M. Penick was directed to revise
and edit the by-laws of the University and recom-
mend any changes thought necessary.

Trustee George W. St. Clair was elected rector of
the board during the illness of Rector Lucian H.
Cocke and Senior Trustee William A. Anderson. The
Board will meet again in January. Ordinarily two
meetings a year are held, in January and at com-
mencement, but increased duties on the board will
probably call for three meetings a year in the future.

The following trustees were present: George W.
St. Clair, John S$. Munce, W. McC. White, Harrington
Waddell, William A. McCorkle, Hugh B. Sproul,
Charles J. McDermott, James R. Caskie, George Bol-
ling Lee and W. L,. Carson.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PROGRESS IN ’67

The following excerpts were taken from the July,
1867, issue of ‘“The Land We Love,” a monthly maga-
zine devoted to literature, history and agriculture, pub-
lished by Hill, Irwin & Co.:

“Our advertisements—We are glad to know that
Washington College recognizes the necessity for a
change in the old fogy system of education. It has a
school of Modern Languages and English, a school
of Mathematics, a school of Applied Mathematics, a
school of Natural Philosophy, a school of Chemistry,
and another of Applied Chemistry, and a department
of Civil and Mining Engineering.

“The distinguished President and his able corps
would have attracted many pupils in any event but in
the present impoverished condition of the South, five
hundred would not have been gathered under their
supervision, had not the people been impressed with
their judicious curriculum of studies.” (page 362)

On page 442, the following: “Washington College,
Va. It is not necessary to do more than call attention
to this renowned institution. ‘The great chieftain with
his able corps of assistants is giving Washington the
very highest success as the number of students (nearly
500) clearly attests.”

 

A CHAMPION SPELLER >

John Joseph Allen, ’70, of Franklin County, N.
C., is the champion speller of the North State, ac-
cording to the Raleigh News and Observer. This
might mean much or little, but the Raleigh News
says that Mr. Allen “can spell every word in the
dictionary and can give the proper definition.” If
this be true, North Carolina unquestionably is en-
titled to another “first.” An unabridged dictionary
of the English language these days contains some
450,000 words. Of course a vast number of these
are technical terms and generally Latin or Greek or
from some modern language other than English. It
is more than likely that Mr. Allen would find him-
self stumped if called upon to spell certain chemical
terms found in the dictionary, and still more unlikely
that he would be able to define some of them.

Mr. Allen says that every school in America
should use Webster’s Blue Back Spelling Book in
teaching spelling. He says it was excluded from the
schools for the reason that “it only costs 10 cents.”
We have been inclined to believe for a considerable
period that a return to the old spelling book method
of teaching spelling would produce better spellers
than our public schools are turning out.

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, 713, of Huntington, West
Va., was a recent visitor to Lexington.

FRATERNITY SCHOLARSHIP RECORDS

1926-’27
PRO Pan PR ee Ua TR 356
PE eee ie ee ee 75.528
Bee ete Ey ee a ae Dec ee 75.442
De eee ea ae 75.245
DA Dee erg re ene ee 75.103
Delta ame etry a es 74,988
Alpha ye ae 74.845
Pht ee er ee a F428
Pi Ra A ey 74.174
Pi Kappa PR ro er ee 74.113
ipo NG Pe
Signa Aloha” Hsien: Olof 8 ye ae 73.576
Kappa Alpha fs oy ee Sie 73.571
Kappa “Siemean a 73.059
Lambda Chie mlpha ee oe 73.037
Dipti a ee ee 72.845
Phe Uinta $2255
Alipay a OMe ee 72.020
Oia Th Neon eee 71.209
LOCAL,
AC a i, cet a 78.201

 

WRESTLING TEAM BEGINS TRAINING

The Varsity and freshman wrestling teams are now -
undergoing an intensive training period. The Varsity
men work out every day from 4 to 5 o’clock, while the
freshmen go through their paces from 5 to 6.

The outlook for this year’s team is exceptionally
bright. Some twenty men are now on the Varsity
squad, and this number will be considerably augmented
at the close of the football season, as many wrestlers
are out for football. Capt. Seligman, who was chosen
on Coach Player’s All-South Atlantic team last year,
and Bolton are the monogram men back whom Coach
Mathis will use as the nucleus of his Varsity team.

An excellent schedule is being arranged which will
include some eight or ten trips to various universities
in the South and East.

 

PHYSICAL EDUCATION AT WASHING-
TON AND LEE

With the completion of physical examination of
freshmen at Washington and Lee, all first year men
are now engaged in some form of physical education.
Swimming classes have begun. Ability to swim is
now a requisite for a degree.

The physical examinations revealed that the largest
freshman weighed 205 pounds and the smallest,
ninety-nine. The tallest was six feet one inch, and
the shortest five feet one inch.

THI, ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

Football Results

Sept. 24—W. & L., 26; Lynchburg College, 2.
Oct. 1.—W.& L., 6; U. of West Va., 6.

Oct. 8—W. & L., 12; Duke University, 7.
Oct. 15.—W. & L. 0; Princeton, 13.

Oct. 22-—W. & L., 25; U. of Kentucky, 0.

The usual season “opener” was provided in the game
with Lynchburg College. Ragged performance char-
acterized the play of both teams. ‘The form displayed
by the new and untried Generals’ backfield was the
most encouraging feature. ‘Two touchdowns resulted
from well directed forward passes—Lott to Spotts and
Lott to Barclay. A blocked punt for a safety scored
two points for Lynchburg.

The University of West Virginia provided the first
real test of the Generals’ ability. Battling doggedly on
Laidly field Charleston, West Va., under a hot sun the
two teams engaged in a midfield see-saw during the
first quarter. In the second period W. & L. advanced
to West Va.’s 25-yard line, lost the ball and was
forced back by a consistent. mountaineer onslaught
which resulted in a touchdown after a 23-yard run and
along pass. The half ended just as the Generals
were threatening the West Va. goal after a long run
by Stearnes. The third quarter again saw the Gen-

erals on the defensive with most of the play near mid-’

field. In the final period a successful forward passing
game took the Blue team to the West Va. goal line,
only to lose the ball on downs. A bad West Va. punt
gave W. & L. the ball again on the West Va. 10-yard
line and a touchdown upon gains by Lott and White.
The kick for goal failed and the game ended soon after
at 6-6 deadlock.

Duke University sent a strong team ably coached by
former W. & L. mentor, James DeHart, to Lexington.

W.& L. scored a touchdown in the first few minutes
of play upon an intercepted pass by Howe, a pass
from Stearnes to Howe, another from Lott to Howe,
an off-tackle run by Howe and a plunge by Barnett.
Lott missed goal from placement. The remainder of
the first half was taken up by a powerful Duke offen-
sive which resulted in touchdown and goal afterward
upon an offside penalty against W. & L. During this
period Duke backs gained at will through the General
line and constantly threatened their secondary. defense.
DeHart’s charges looked infinitely superior. After
the rest period a renewed and invigorated W. & L.
team took the field. Howe, Lott, White and Spotts
mixed end runs, off tackle jabs, line plunges and _ for-
ward passes in bewildering confusion to score the sec-
ond and winning touchdown in the face of numerous
and heavy penalties and strong Duke defensive work.
In this period the Generals registered ten first downs
and did not allow a first down to Duke. This flashy
comeback ended the game 12 to 6.

The strong showing against West Va. and Duke in-
spired many students to follow the W. & L. team to
Princeton, in hope of an inter-sectional victory. There
the Generals met .a superior and heavier team, were
constantly on the defensive except for two sustained
drives toward the Princeton goal which fell short be-
fore the stronger Tiger defensive wall. The powerful
Princeton backs tore through for a touchdown during
the first five minutes of play, but were blocked by
Spotts in the try for goal. In the second half the Gen-
erals were again threatened but held well when in dan-
ger until a fumble lost the ball on downs well within
their own territory. This gift resulted in the second
tiger score. A pass scored the extra point, the final
score being 13-0.

 

 

 

Howe, H. B. STEARNS, H. B.

 

 

Wuitt, F. B.
FOUR HORSEMEN

Tips, (Capt) G.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ALUMNI BUILDING OCCUPIED

Under the able direction of Prof. Hale Houston,
95, chairman of the Alumni Building Committee, re-
pair and rehabilitation work on the old McLaughlin
house has been completed. ‘This was made possible by
the generosity of a few alumni and friends who con-
tributed $2,200 for the purpose.

The new alumni quarters include a commodious
and handsome lounge which has been completely fur-
nished, a writing and reading room, a small lobby, a
lavatory, a large alumni office room and an open
porch. An upstairs living apartment is occupied by
the Alumni Secretary and family, the rental providing
tor the upkeep and maintenance of the building.

Conveniently located at the campus walkway en-
trance, the Alumni Building should provide a popular
gathering place and headquarters for visiting alumni
at all times. ‘The house will be remembered as the old
McLaughlin house, the Howerton home, the old Phi
Kappa Sigma house or the School of Journalism
Building. ,

The lobby has been furnished with reed fibre furni-

ture and the lounge with overstuffed Spanish leather.

The writing room or ‘‘den” walls are adorned with
aumerous autographed pictures of individual alumnt.
Another large room has been made into the business
office of the Alumni Association, Inc., and contains
all of the alumni files, records, etc.

Too much credit cannot be given to Prof. Hale
Houston for his invaluable assistance in planning and
directing the improvements in the old building, which
is one of the oldest houses in Lexington (approxt-
mately 125 years old). The repair and furnishing of
such a time-worn structure with such limited funds
was no easy task. It was only through the good judg-
ment aid experience of Prof. Houston that the work
was accomplished. Therefore, the Alumni Building
is but another monument to be added to his record of
accomplishments on the W. & L. campus.

In addition to the gifts gratefully acknowledged in
the last issue of the magazine generous contributions
for the building have been received from the follow-
ing alumni and friends: Hon. John W., Davis; ar.
William E. Dold, Harry Moran, Dan B. Owen, Miles

 

 

Poindexter, Albert Steves, Sr., Wm. A. Anderson, W.
L, Webster and Henry Boley. 2

THE ALL TIME W. & L. ELEVEN

The proposal that alumni pick an all-time W. & L.
football team met with an enthusiastic response in
some quarters. However, while a large number of re-
phes have been received, the response has not been
sufficiently general or representative for the judges to
come to a decision. Therefore, a report will not be
published until the next (January) issue of the_
Alumni Magazine.

In the meantime alumni should continue to send in
their choices for this mythical super-combination, for
the results will probably stand for years as the repre-
sentative choice by alumni of the eleven greatest
players ever produced at Washington and Lee, and the
more general the response is the more accurate the
judges decision will be. :

C. W. “Bill” Streit, 05, chairman of the committee
of judges, has called attention to various factors to be
taken into consideration, which makes a just decision
almost impossible. He pointed out that first attention
is always directed to the ball carriers, while the suc-
cess of those stars may be due to a running mate on the
same team who, was rarely given the opportunity to

carry the ball. Also, that defensive ability should be

taken into greater account.

Therefore, it should be made plain that in the choice
of the all-time Generals a distinction should be made
between the “most valuable player to his team” and the
greater all-round performer in his position. It is the
purpose of this present endeavor to pick the latter—-
that is, the most perfect combination of individual
efficiency in all departments of play in each position.

It is also hoped that more “picks” will be sent in by
alumni who witnessed team play between 1897 and
1907, for more of the choices received to date deal with
players from 1912 to 1926. Of course, results are not
to be final and will in no way reflect upon the spirit or
ability of any player or group of players. The con-
test, if contest it is, is merely for speculation and re-
flection—and will only set up a mark at which future
General stars can aim—a place on the “All-Time Big
Blue: Peam:

 

 

 

 

 

 

THe “Bre Game I6 23°

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 13

Prospects

The 1927 team thus far has developed remarkably
under Coach Herron’s tutelage. In the beginning
the outlook was gloomy; the loss of veterans Rau-
ber, Palmer, Whitlock, Holt and Rector was keenly
felt. But from a good supply of new material a
formidable eleven has been whipped into shape.

The new team is conspicuous for the absence of
individual stars. ‘True, Captain Tips and the vet-
eran Spotts might be so rated, but in the backfield
the team is without a sensational ground gainer. In-
stead, the entire backfield is showing itself capable
of effectively executing offensive plays for consist-
ent gains. Howe and Lott substituted by Barnett
and Eberhardt are proving able runners, while White
and Stearnes ably share line plunging duty.

In the line the brilliant play of Captain Tips and
Spotts is seconded by that of. Fitzpatrick who is
playing his second varsity year at tackle. Fisher,
tackle, Groop, guard, Latham, center, Dorsey and
Towill, ends, varsity veterans from last year, are
augmented by Hawkins, tackle, Sproul, end, and
Snodgrass, center, second and third year men who
are doing exceptionally well in the varsity line.

Therefore, at the present writing, it appears that
the Generals will face the Cavaliers of Virginia with
a well balanced, smooth working, hard fighting team,
normally proficient in every department of the game
without a noticeably weak spot in offense or defense.
They will present a diversified attack independent
of any one individual star and account well in each
of the eleven positions.

Barring injuries they will likely line up as appears
below:

LInE-Up
(As they will most likely face Virginia, Nov. 5th)
Jersey Yrs. on
No. Name Position Age Weight Squad
33 Spotts End 21 181 3
53 Fisher Tackle aa 185 3
or 47 < Hawkins Tackle 20 170 1
po lips, (Cap.) Guard a 188 3
42 iatham Center 22 176 3
or 56 Snodgrass Center 19 163 <
44 Groop Guard ed 176 2
37 Fitzpatrick Tackle 22 188 2
Dorsey End a2 165 3
or 58 ‘Sproul End el 165 2
38. Lott Quarter 20 165 2
43 Howe Hall 20 155 3
46 Stearns Half Re 177 3
57 White Full 24. 175 2
or 40 Barnet (sub.) Full 19 160 J
or 60 Eberhardt (sub.) Half 20 165 1

Born. To Mr..and Mrs. ‘Roy_}. 4ommmley, 22, a
son on July 3lst.

 

 

 

 

 

CoacH HErRoN
—— developed remarkably”

ce

 

 

REMAINING GAMES

Only two football engagements are scheduled after
the Virginia game on November 5th. The annual
contest with V. P. I. will be played at Blacksburg, Va.
on November 12th, and with the University of Flor-
ida at Jacksonville on November 24th.

Advance tickets for the V. P. I. game will be on
sale at Roanoke and Lexington a few days before the
game. Alumni can best insure advance reservations
upon remittance of $2.00 each, plus 10 cents postage,
to R. A. Smith, graduate manager of athletics, Lex-
ington.

W. & L. tickets for the U. of Florida game are be-
ing distributed under the direction of Fred M. Valz,
10, Atlantic National Bank Building, Jacksonville.
Remittance of $2.50 each, plus 10 cents for postage
should be made to him at once, as he advises us that
there is a greater demand than ever for good seats at
the game this year. Reservations will not be held
later than one week before the game unless accompa-
nied by advance payment.

ats

‘14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Tickets and Reservations for November 5th

Due to the heavy demand from supporters of V.
M. 1., W. & L., the University of North Carolina
and the University of Virginia, hotel and rooming
accommodations in Lexington will be overtaxed on
November 5th. Local hotels have refused to accept
further reservations and indications are that every
available private room has been taken in advance.
While every effort will be made to accommodate W.
& L. alumni, it is advisable for those coming to Lex-
ington by auto to secure reservations in the nearby
towns of Natural Bridge, Roanoke, Lynchburg and
Staunton for the nights of the 4th and 5th. Lexing-
ton is accessible by excellent roads from these points
in less than two hours. |

Tickets for the W. & L.-Va. Classic can be se-
cured in advance upon remittance of $2.00 each and
ten cents return postage (twenty-five cents if regis-
tered) to R. A. Smith, Graduate Manager of Ath-
letics, Lexington, Va. A heavy advance sale has al-
ready been reported. The stadium at Wilson field
will be occupied by Virginia students and supporters.
Ample temporary bleachers have been erected on the
opposite side of the field for W. & L. followers.
Two sections between the forty-yard line have been
allotted to alumni. Reservations in the alumni sec-
tion should be purchased at once.

Alumni wishing to see the V. M. I.-Caroline game
at 11 A. M., can secure advance tickets upon remit-
tance of $2.00 each and return postage to Major B.
M. Clarkson, V. M. I. Graduate Manager, at Lexing-
ton. :

Excellent roads lead to Lexington from every
section except the West which is blocked by the un-
completed highway between Lexington and Clifton
Forge. From the South hard surface roads via
Bristol and Roanoke, or via Winston-Salem and

‘Roanoke, from the East hard surface and sand clay

via Petersburg and Lynchburg or via Charlottesville
and Staunton; and from the North the Valley Pike
via Winchester and Staunton are excellent. The
best entries from the West are via Wheeling, West
Va. and Cumberland, Md., to Winchester, and the

Valley Pike, or via Charleston and White Sulphur
Springs, West Va. to Clifton Forge and detour to
Lexington.

Comfortable bus service makes connections with
incoming and outgoing trains at Staunton, Roanoke
and Lynchburg. The Roanoke and Staunton in-
coming schedule is given below.

Bus CONNECTIONS

Leave Staunton 7:00 A. M., arrive Lexington
8 300A. Me.

Leave Staunton 8:30 A. M., arrive Lexington
10:00 A. M.

Leave Staunton 12:00 M., arrive Lexington

1:30) Me.

Leave Staunton 3:00 P. M., arrive Lexington
4:30 P. M.

Leave Staunton 7:45 P. M., arrive Lexington
915), Ne |

Leave Roanoke 7:30 A. M., arrive Lexington
9 30a, Mi

Leave Roanoke 10:00 <A,
12:20: Po. '

Leave Roanoke 12:45 P. M., arrive Lexington
3:00 P.M,

Leave Roanoke 3:00 P. M., arrive Lexington
500) Poon.

Leave Roanoke 6:00 P. M., arrive Lexington
8:30 P.M.

M., arrive Lexington

An especially interesting feature of the Virginia
Farmers’. Institute at Blacksburg, Va., was the for-
mal presentation of the two “Certificates of Merit”
awarded annually by V. P. I. for distinctive achieve-
ment in agriculture. One of these certificates was
awarded to Dr. Samuel S. Guerrant, ’86, for many
years distinguished for the service he has rendered
Virginia agriculture through his wise and energetic
leadership.

 

 

 

Action FOR THE Homecominc GAME

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Athletic Field Bridge Under Construction

The handsome footbridge from the gymnasium to
the athletic field to be known as the Class ’27-’31
Bridge, which is being given by the Washington and
Lee student body is rapidly taking shape. Nearly all
of the preliminary scaffolding and concrete forms
have been erected, and the concrete foundation piers
have been poured.

Weather permitting, the bridge should be completed
by December 15th. ‘The contract was let on August
30th to the Luten Bridge Company of Knoxville,
Tenn. Their engineers went to work immediately
and have made rapid progress thus far.

Plans for the bridge were drawn by the draftsmen
of the Luten Bridge Company in conjunction with
Mr. Horace Peaslee, landscape architect of Washing-
ton, D. C., who is retained by the University. Mr.
Peaslee has stated that the W. & L. bridge will be the
longest and highest concrete footbridge in the coun-
try and in his opinion, the most beautiful.

The bridge will be of reinforced concrete 550 feet
long, 12 feet wide and at one point 68 feet high. It
will be supported by six graceful arches spanning
Wood’s Creek, the railroad and the tennis courts. It
starts ten feet below the ground level at the gym-
nasium and slopes gradually to the athletic field, land-
ing in line with the center of the football gridiron.

The twelve foot floor of the bridge will have a three
foot cinder path on one side for men wearing cleated
shoes and will be enclosed by a concrete railing and
pre-cast balustrade spindles. Elaborate approaches to
the bridge at both ends have been designed but wil!
not be constructed at present.

From the frontispiece in this issue and the sketch
reproduced herewith an excellent conception of the
completed span can be obtained. It not only fills a
long felt need and adds beauty to the northwest border
of the campus but also marks the first class memorial
structure to be erected on the campus.

Initial gifts for the purpose of building the bridge
were made by the student body last year; nearly $25,-
000 was pledged ($50 by each contributing student)
$5000 of which was paid in cash, $5000 became due
on September 20th and the remainder is to be paid in
three equal annual instalments. ‘The completed struc-
ture will cost approximately $35,000. Therefore,
$10,000 remains to be raised.

Contract was let and initial financing was arranged
by R. A. Smith, graduate manager of athletics, Prof.
Forest Fletcher, head of athletics, Prof. Hale Hous-
ton and Verbon F,. Kemp, acting for last years stu-
dent Bridge Committee composed of Maynard Holt
student body president, Hugh Ebert, J. B. Towill and
Joe Lanier. The campaign to raise the final $10,000
and the management of the fund this year will be un-

aoe * a8

 

LookING Towarp NEw WIzson FIELD

“The longest, highest and most beautiful permanent
footbridge in the United States’

 

 

der the direction of student body president E. H.
Miller, vice-president W. J. Dorsey, secretary Russell!
Jordan, R. A. Smith and Verbon E. Kemp.

(pe NATOR ROBERT UL. OWEN, MA. 777,
Muskogee, Okla., U. S. Senator 1907-1925, inter-
viewed on a visit to New York City, roundly scored
present U. S. tariff policies, took the present adminis-
tration to task because of its attitude in the French
tariff controversy, praised a New York Times editorial
on the subject; said nothing about his part in fram-

ing the Federal Reserve Act.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Alumni Beware of a “Student” Impostor

Posing as a law student at Washington and Lee and
generally giving his name as George W. Norfleet, a
young crook is wending his way westward at the ex-
pense of Washington and Lee alumni and parents of
students. His recent activities have been reported
from Cumberland, Md., Cincinnati and Cleveland,
Ohio, and Chicago, IIl.

His usual story is that he is en route to or from the
University by auto, that his car broke down and
that he is stranded without funds. To parents of
students he claims intimate acquaintance with their
sons. He has names and addresses of W. & L.
alumni and is sufficiently conversant with Faculty
names and happenings at the University to talk in-
telligently about them. ‘Thus established he has se-
cured “loans” of $15.00 to $75.00 from sympathetic
alumni and parents.

This impostor is described as being rather stocky,
weighing perhaps 155 pounds, with brown hair and a
misshapen left ear. He dresses well and has an en-
gaging personality. He purports to be a student in
the Law School, a member of the football squad last
year and a member of the Kappa Alpha fraternity.
He generally gives Suffolk, Norfolk or Ocean View,
Virginia, as his home address.

His claims are more confusing because he some-
times assumes the name, or claims to be a brother of a

genuine student from Suffolk who graduated with
an excellent record last year.

This is a revival of a similar series of impersona-
tions by a crook of the same description in 1925. At
that time he operated in and around Baltimore, Md.
and Washington, D. C., giving his name variously as
Walter R. Saunders, W. F. Davis and Charlie Davis.

Investigation has shown that this is a young man of
questionable reputation from Suffolk, Va., that he
has never been entered on the rolls of Washington
and Lee and that he is not related to any present or
former W. & L. student. His knowledge of campus
affairs and personalities is evidently derived from
reading or from independent visits to Lexington.

It is highly desirable that he be apprehended. While
the amounts secured by him are generally nominal his
activities impunge the reputation of the University
and the student body, particularly with University
clubs, sporting organizations and hotels which are
also numbered among his victims.

Therefore, should any of our readers be approached
by a young man fulfilling the above description, or
should any further information come to them as to
his whereabouts they are urged to have him held for ex-
amination and to communicate with Alumni Secre-
tary, Verbon E. Kemp, at once.

 

 

INTELLIGENCE TESTS GIVEN W. & L.
FROSH

Robert FE. Lee, leader of the Confederacy, and
George Washington first president of the United
States, would find their equals in the freshman class
of Washington and Lee University, the school both of
them helped to foster, according to results from fresh-
man intelligence tests made known here.

Estimates show that the “intelligent quotient” of
General Washington to have been between 132 and
140; General Lee’s was about 130. Members of the
freshman class whose intelligence quotient approaches
130 are not uncommon according to Dr. Wm. M.
Brown, physcholigist and director of the tests at Wash-
ington and Lee.

“Tf you could turn loose the potentialities of a group
of twenty-five students I could pick on this campus,
you would need a place to stand. You would move the
world with it,” said Dr. Brown. He pointed out, how-
ever, that the difficulty was in realizing the greatest
profit from remarkable ability, and that sometimes the
brightest students did not receive the highest grades.

“The purpose of intelligence tests,’ Dr. Brown ex-
plained, “is to work toward turning out the greatest

number of useful men with the means and material we
have before us. Recently a professor of English came
to me with a freshman theme, the like of which I had
never seen before. It did not seem to me that any
human being could make as many mistakes in his na-
tive language as that freshman. We found that his
mental rating was in the lowest eight of the whole
freshman class. He should not have been allowed in
any school. He will take four times the amount of
time from the instructor and receive one-fourth the
value that the average student will.”

Another problem that meets college administrators
said Dr. Brown, was the one of treating the bright
students who fall afoul of the dean’s office for mis-
behavior or failing in studies through lack of applica-
tion.

“No man should be sent home without being studied
from every angle by a psychological clinic,’ he said.
“Many of the causes for the failure of a bright student
are due to forces we can overcome if we know them.
There may be troubles at home, he may have met with
some social failure, or he may have been disappointed
in a love affair. This clinic should make prescriptions
for mental ills just as the school doctor does for phys-
ical ailments.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Local Associations

Helena, Arkansas, Alumni Organize.

On August 4th a majority of our alumni in Helena,
Ark. met and organized a local alumni chapter. Their
first banquet was held three weeks later, on August
24th. “Cy” Young, ’15, was elected president and C.
W. Rabb, ’21, secretary. ‘The association entered four
new students at Washington and Lee from the Helena
section this year. Alumni making up the Helena
chapter afte: Allein Boal jr 717. Warren C.
Brown, 14; James M. Faulkner, ’16; Claude S. Fitz-
patrick, 94; Lewis M. Henry, ’22; Otis W. Howe,
24: Prench RR. MeKimieht, 32; Mdward S. Nelson,
Zit Algert Newman, Jr, 22: Hraucis 1. ‘Russell,
"21; Mercer F,. West, 90; Chas. A. Wooten, 790.

New York Luncheon.

The popular monthly business luncheons held by
the New York City alumni chapter were resumed on
September 21st. James R. Lee, 17, ably succeeded able
D. R. Snively, ’22, who had moved away, as secretary
of the chapter. Plans were completed for the annuai
dinner to be given at the Hotel Brevort on the evening
of October 14th (preceding the Princeton game).
Alumni attending the luncheon were: Dr. William
Ef. Dold, W. M. McCorkle, James A. Jee FR.
Hawthorne, I. W, Urmey, H, D, St. fon, &. A.
Hunter, G. S. Mueller, W. R. Burton, E. B. Vinson,
E. W. Poindexter, E. W. Lee, W, C. McKmeht, D.
G. Grimley, R. A. Lewis, Roy Grimley, T. W. Allen.

New York Alumni Dinner

Manhattan Alumni, eighty in number, gathered at
the Brevort Hotel, New York, on the evening of Oc-
tober 14th, heralded the fourth anniversary of their
reorganized association, celebrated the third annual
football game with Princeton, sang songs, gave forth
yells, heard interesting speeches.

In the absence of their able president, Dr. Wm. E.
Dold, W. D. Conrad, Vice President, took charge of
the meeting, introduced Judge Charles J. McDermott,
University Trustee, toastmaster for the evening.
John Drye, Jr., ’21, offered a toast to the University,
the swing was sung, a football yell given. The nomi-
nating committee, F. W. Poindexter, Chairman, sub-
mitted the name of W. Davis Conrad, for president,
Harry E. Moran, ’14, Vice President, James A. Lee,
"17, Secretary and Treasurer, Dr. Wm. E. Dold, ’77,
E.. B. Vinson, ’21, Henry W. Dew, 15, and Earl Bibb
for members of the governing council. Their nomi-
nees were unanimously elected.

Dr. H. D. Campbell, 782, dean of the University,
guest of honor, spoke of the progress and needs of the
college, intimately and humorously recalled campus
incidents of other days, complimented Thornton Allen,

 

W. D. Conran, 03

“_____ elected president of Manhattan Assn.’

 

 

"and L. T. Brown, ’20, on the music furnished for
the banquet, traced the relationship between Prince-
ton and Washington and Lee, touched on football
prospects for the morrow, made no predictions, was
enthusiastically greeted and cheered by alumni present.

Judge E. C. Caffrey, 09, President of the alumni,
Inc., spoke in behalf of the Alumni organizations,
urged every Manhattan member to be on hand in Lex-
ington for homecoming day, Saturday, November 5th.

Judge F. T. Reeves, 04, of Waterbury, Conn., spoke,
telegrams of greeting from Dr. Wm. E. Dold, ’77,
from President Henry Louis Smith and from Alumni
Secretary, Verbon EF. Kemp, were read. Resolutions
to send messages of good wishes and hope for rapid
recovery to Hon. Lucian H. Cocke, ’78, Rector Wil-
liam A. Anderson, ’61, member of the Board of Trus-
tees, offered and sympathetically passed.

It was decided to continue the monthly luncheons
on the first Wednesday of each month (The next to
be held at the Fraternity Clubs, Madison Ave., at 38th
St., Wednesday, November 2nd). Led by Thornton

   

 

18

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Allen, 712, and L. T. Brown, ’21, the enthusiastic
gathering joined in singing “College Friendships,” dis-

persed.

The Alumni attending the annual banquet were:

Alford, S., ’98

Allen, T. W., °12
Allison, G. W., °10
Barber, G. H., Dr., 717
Barker, E. G., ’26
Bentley, R., ’26
Bibb, E., ’25

Bock, P., ’24

Brown, L. T., ’20
Bryant, L. P., ’09
Burton, W. R., 717
Caffrey, E. C., Judge, ’09
Chenery, C. T., ’09
Chevalier, S., 703
Collins, J. Ri 15
Conrad, W. D., ’03

Cox, B., 714
Drye, J., “21
Peet, |, P.. Yo
Bicy, H..C., 11
Free Bo L., 1

Graves, J. K., ’O1
Gravely, J. S., 08
Halladay, R. C.,
Admiral, ’77
Hill, G. L., ’26
Hyman, W. A, 12
Kane, R. R., 717
Kupfer, C., “17
Lee, E. W., 713
Lee 3s: B., De; OG
Lee, J. A., “17
Littleton, M. W.
Lykes, J. T., (09
McCorkle, H. H., ’96
McCorkle, W. L., ’78
McKnight, W. C., ’02
Miles, M. R.
Moran, H. F., 14

Mueller, G. S., °18
Pickus, A. M., ’24
Poindexter, E. W., ’21
Powell, J. L., 14
Reeves, F. T., Judge, ’04
Spans, fi A. 25
Swartz, O. E., ’03
iyi, K. 21

Urmey; F. W., 27
Vinson, FE. B., ’23
Walters, T. C., 727
Webster, W. L., 710
Whetzel, J. C., 714
Wotten, A,

Flanagan, D., Judge, ’88
Wilson, EF. W., ’98 —
MeCam, Cf. 2
Harris, R.

Belans, M.

Campbell, H. D., Dr., ’88
McDermott, C. J., Judge
Glenn, J. M., ’78

Mason, ’99
Harrison, John
Howard L., ’26

St. John, H. D., ’25
Hecker, T. R., ’26
Welch, M., ’21
mnively, D. R., 22
Bryant. Roy, 715
Ripy, M. W., 796
Grimley, D. G., 725
Gtimley, KR. 1, 24
McNitt, C. W., 717
Shields, W. R., ’07
Tow, J., 24
Bailey, C. R., 12
Cohen, C. A.

Lile, C., ’17

Charleston, West Va., Alumni.

While no formal report has been received from
the Charleston chapter visitors to the annual West Va.

game, October 3rd, returned with great praise and ap-
preciation for the hospitality of the West Va. chap-
ter which was motivated by a large group of active
alumni.

Jacksonville, Fla., Chapter.
Fred Valz, ’10, reports that the usual open house

and banquet will be held for visiting alumni by the
Jacksonville chapter at the Fla.-W. & L. game, No-

vember 24th. Only those who have attended this
game in the past can fully appreciate the extent of the
“usual”. Open house by the Jacksonville chapter
means the freedom of the city. Official alumni head-
quarters will be established, there will be a parade, a
dance and a huge banquet at which Governor Martin
of Florida will be the principal speaker.

—_———————

HOME COMING

A full program is offered returning alumni for the
annual home coming Nov. 5th. With good weather
it should prove to be a regular carnival day with foot-
ball the major attraction. On the side it will be an
occasion for meeting old friends and revisiting fa-
miliar scenes.

As a preliminary the Augusta Military Academy will
meet the Danville Military Institute on the V. M. I.
gridiron at9 A.M. The V. M. I. home coming game
witn the University of North Carolina will follow at
11 A. M. The flying squadron and the tar heels have
made excellent showings this year and will offer a
keen competition full of thrills for the football fan.

A buffet luncheon will be given for visiting Wash-
ington and Lee Alumni and their wives at the Alumni
Building by the University. This will formally cele-
brate the opening of the new alumni quarters in the
old McLaughlin House. ‘The Luncheon will be in
charge of a Ladies Committee composed of Mrs. L,
J. Desha, Miss Annie White, Miss Mary Barclay and
Miss Dora Witt. |

After the luncheon Judge E. C. Caffrey, President
of the Alumni Association will deliver a short address
of welcome to visitors and of appreciation to alumni
and friends who made the Alumni Building possible.

The Kick-off at 2:45 P. M. on Wilson Field will
open the sixth annual contest between the Generals
and the Cavaliers since the renewal of athletic rela-
tions in 1921. :

Alumni from far and near are expected to be on
hand to join in singing the Swing on the kick-off.

EARLY COMERS

Registration at alumni headquarters for the Home-
coming game will begin Monday, Oct. 3lst. The
rooms will be open to alumni at all times during the
week. Alumni are urged to make the alumni building
their headquarters during their stay in Lexington.
Alumni coming from a distance should make an ex-
tended visit to the campus on this occasion. ‘The Uni-
versity Faculty has been asked to form a_ reception
committee at alumni headquarters, during the week,
and will be on hand there to greet their former stu-
dents.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

When Martin P. Burks, II], Matriculated at Washington and La

A private ritual of reminiscence attended the matricu-
lation at Washington and Lee University here this
fall of Martin P. Burks, III, Roanoke, grandson of
Judge Martin P. Burks of the Supreme Court of
Appeals of Virginia. ‘Three of the four successive
generations of Burks to be graduated from W. & L.
were present in Newcomb Hall when the youngest en-
rolled in the class of 1927. )

Judge Martin P. Burks, Lexington, a student of
Washington College during the four years of General
Robert E.. Lee’s presidency and his son, Martin P.
Burks, Jr., a Roanoke attorney, of the class of 1905,
accompanied Martin P. Burks, III. Edward C. Burks,
great-grandfather, was graduated from Washington
College in 1841.

As the young Martin P. Burks, III, enters college
this year, a prized letter passes from his grandfather.
Judge Burks of Lexington to the boy’s father in
Roanoke. The letter was from General Lee comment-
ing on Judge Burks’ scholarship; it follows:

“Washington College,
June 28, 1870.
“H, ©. Burks, Esa.,
Liberty, Va.

Dear Sir:

“T have the pleasure of communicating to you the
action of the faculty of Washington College, com-
mending your son Martin P. Burks for his distin-
guished industry and success in his studies during the
late session.

“With best wishes for his future welfare, I am

“Respectfully,
R. E. Lez, President.”

The career of Supreme Court Justice Burks of Lex-
ington, followed that of his father with singular
coincidence. Both have been judges of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Virginia. The present Judge
Burks was born just thirty years after his father. He
was graduated in law from the University of Virginia
thirty years after his father took his law degree from
that institution. He was married on his father’s
thirtieth wedding anniversary. Exactly thirty years
after his father was appointed revisor of the code of
Virginia, he became incumbent of the same office.

Judge Burks was professor of law at Washington
and Lee from 1900 to 1914; he was dean of the law
school from 1903 to 1917, when’ he became judge of
the Supreme Court of Appeals. Washington and Lee
conferred the LL.D. degree on Judge Burks in 1920,
just fifty years after his graduation.

As young Martin came down Lee highway by auto-
mobile from Roanoke to enter a large university, his

grandfather remembered his own slow progress to col-
lege on a canal boat.

“An Irishman got on the boat at Big Island,’ Judge
Burks said. ‘‘He came on to the college to cut stone
for the campus chapel where General Lee’s body now
lies. He brought his money to me each week to keep
for him in my trunk. Asa boy I came to Washington
College when I was but fifteen years old because my
father wanted me to be there while General Lee was
president. I remember being in the Lee home on the
campus, almost across the street from where I now
live, many times.”

 

WANTED—A RADIO

A radio receiving set will be a most desirable addi-
tion to the Alumni Club Room. More necessary ex-
penditures from the building fund will not permit this
purchase from the appropriation for furniture. Such
a set would form an attractive gift from some active
local association or from an individual alumnus.

Other desirable but unprovided for additions to
the club rooms that would make attractive gifts from
a local association or from an individual are a piano,
small floor rugs, windsor chairs, floor lamps, smoking
stands, magazine and newspaper subscriptions and a
victrola.

——— ee

MILTON B. ROGERS, ’15, TAKES OVER
STUDEBAKER SALES :

Believing that the Studebaker automobile offers
tremendous possibilities for sales in the future, even
greater than it has been in the past by reason of its
amazing performance, Mr. M. B. Rogers, ’15, has just
purchased the interests of the Studebaker Sales Com-
pany of Philadelphia, taking over the entire sales and
service personnel at the main headquarters and sales
room, and the other Philadelphia branches of the com-
pany. - Pe

Mr. Rogers, who is president of the new Stude-
baker organization, has been connected with the
Studebaker Corporation of America as branch man-
ager of the Philadelphia district, so that he is fully
conversant with Philadelphia, its automobile desires,
its moods and temperaments. Before coming to Phil-
adelphia as branch manager of the Philadelphia dis-
trict for the Studebaker Corporation, he was assistant
general manager in New York City.

“Studebaker”, says Mr. Rogers, “in my opinion,
is on the eve of the most wonderful year in automo-
tive history. Record after record has been smashed
by the wonderful performance of this car and the end
is nowhere in sight.”

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE _ ,

Twenty-One and Seventy-Five—W. H. Tayloe, °76

Uniontown, Ala.

Aug. 27, 1927
Dear Mr. Kemp:

The Alumni MaGazINE came yesterday and was
read with’ great interest. You are to be highly com-
plimented on the matter of the issue and on the excel
lent character of its conveyance.

As requested, under separate cover I am sending
you two photographs of myself. One was taken on
my twenty-first birthday by the late Mr. Miley of
Lexington. ‘That was on the 26th day of August,
1873. The other was taken recently in Selma, Ala.
So your readers may see me before and after taking
on the years.

Yesterday was the 75th birthday. Mrs. Tayloe
gave me a little dinner of six covers. And we had a
cake with 75 candles on it. All congratulated me on
the occasion and told me how well and young I looked.
Only I knew better. I remembered the older day and
how young and great I felt then.

In the preceding Commencement I had taken the
Bachelor’s degree and was going on to that of Master.
And then I had my first sweetheart and for her the
picture was mainly taken. I was boarding that sum-
mer at the Ann Smith Academy and she was staying
there. How beautiful I deemed her and how I loved
her. Before the ensuing session began, she departed.
We never met again. But the memory lingers yet.
And the picture ever recalls the incident.

What a glorious summer that was. A fine set of
young men was. spending the summer there. And
there was such a superb aggregation of beautiful
young women in town, native and visiting.

We were all in love with life and enraptured with
the world.

The last MacaAzINeE contained a picture of dear de-
lightful “Billy” Dold and one of Hunter McDonald.
These happily recalled those yesterdays.

“Billy” I remember ever so well. He and | were
quite devoted to each other and were much in com-
pany. Hunter was one of a family that held much
genius and geniality. Kenneth, an older brother,
graduated at the V. M. I. at the commencement of
seventy-three and for part at least of the vacation was
the centre and soul of social enjoyment.

And so I am hoping that these pictures will revive
in others the delight I have found in those of “Billy”
and Hunter. Life has its thorns but its roses are very
sweet. Memory plays its pranks with me and fills my
arms with its flowers; how sweet they are; and they
smother the stickers at least for the nonce.

What magnificent pictures of a delightful past
throng my soul. (Hung high among them is the

 

Wu. H. Tavioe, 76
“At Twenty-One and Seventy-Five”

 

 

charming likeness of her for whom the younger pho-
tograph was taken!)

With all good wishes and kind regards, | am
Yours respectfully,
W. H, Tavior

EARLY BIRDS

Perhaps the most unique class ever held at Wash-
ington and Lee is meeting this year every Tuesday,
Thursday and Saturday mornings at seven o'clock.

The class is one in metallurgy, and is conducted by
Dr. James L.. Howe, head of the school of science.

The class was not originally scheduled for this hour
but conflicting schedules among its five members
made it necessary that they seek this unusual hour to
hold the meeting.

The early class is causing considerable comment
among the students, fearing that the practice may be-
come general at later sessions.

TWO GIVEN ALUMNI SCHOLARSHIPS,
W. & L.

Appointments to scholarships at Washington and
Lee University were made Friday at a meeting of
committees on scholarships of the Washington and
Lee Alumni Association. John Devine, Jr., son of
Dr. and Mrs. J. W. Devine, received the Lynchburg
scholarship and Beverly Smith of Campbell County
received that proffered for the county.

The Lynchburg committee consists of Dr. Mosby
G. Perrow, Robert Ramsey, Fred W. McWane, Mau-
rice Moore and A. L. Burger.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

A DISTINGUISHED ALUMNUS AND
TRUSTEE OF YESTERDAY

Pictures of James D. Davidson, and two of his
sons, Captain Charles A. Davidson and Captain Green-
lee Davidson, prominent citizens of Rockbridge County,
Virginia were presented to the county recently and
hung in the court room at the court house. The pic-
tures were presented by Captain Greenlee D. Letcher,
’89, executor of the estate of Mrs. Clara Davidson Es-
till, on behalf of her estate with a brief sketch of the
men. ‘The occasion was the opening of the September
term of Rockbridge circuit court. Judge Henry W.
Holt, ’88, responded to the presentation in behalf of
the court. ,

James Dorman Davidson, father of Mrs. Clara D.
Estill, was born in Rockbridge County, Virginia, about
three miles west of Lexington, Nov. 7, 1808, of Scot-
Irish ancestry. He was educated at Washington Col-
lege, now Washington and Lee University. He was a
trustee of Washington College and Washington and
Lee University for many years, in which important
trust his father preceded him, being a trustee for forty
years. He exercised the liveliest interest in the great
cause of education.

Clara Davidson Estill, who died Nov. 23, 1926,
from whose effects came these photographs, well ful-
filled the high traditions of her distinguished family.
Leaving no children, she left a substantial part of her
property to work forever after her, for healing, edu-
cation and religion. She had for years played the
organ at the Presbyterian church and she left $1500 to
that church, the income to be perpetually used for the
music; $3,000 to Washington and Lee University as a
memorial to her father, and $5,000 to the Stonewall
Jackson hospital as a memorial to her husband, Dr.
Andrew D. Estill, deceased.

 

HON. NEWTON D. BAKER, ’94, SPEAKER
AT TORONTO CENTENNIAL

In response to an invitation to Washington and Lee
from the University of Toronto, Canada, to attend its
centennial celebration, President Smith asked Hon.
Newton D. Baker, 94, to represent the university on
that occasion.

Reporting his visit to President Smith, Mr. Baker
said:

“T went yesterday to Toronto and spent the day at
the University of Toronto as the delegate represent-
ing Washington and Lee by your designation. The
Centenial exercises covered three days and will not
end until tomorrow afternoon. I was, however, able to
give but one day and so returned this morning.

The Convocation took place in the arena of the Uni-
versity and in all there were some seventy American
colleges, universities and learned societies represented.

Four groups of delegates were presented to the chan-~
cellor by the vice chancellor: first, those representing
universities and learned societies throughout the world
exclusive of the British Empire and the United States;
second, those representing such institutions in the
United States; third, those representing institutions in
the British Empire exclusive of Canada; and fourth,
delegates representing sister institutions in Canada it-
self. The chancellor made brief but gracious ad-
dresses to each group of delegates and from each
group a delegate responded on behalf of his group. I
had the honor to respond for the universities, colleges
and learned societies of the United States. The day
was exceedingly picturesque and significant. The
University of Toronto is magnificent and the citizens
of the city and college have evidently grouped them-
selves very loyally around it to sustain its interests and
assure its progress.

As this letter is a mere report of fulfilment of my

mission, I do not extend it beyond these formal

details.’

 

ALUMNI OF THE SEVENTIES

In a personal letter to W. H. Tayloe, ’76, of Union-
town, Ala., some time ago, Mr. Albert Steves, Sr., ’77,
gave some interesting news about his former class-

‘mates from San Antonio.

Mr. Steves said: “With reference to some of the
older San Antonio boys during your day at W. & L.
U., I will mention a few of them:

“No doubt you remember A. C. Herff, who is now
one of our most prominent physicians here and has a
wonderful clientele throughout the whole State, as he
has of late years been giving up his practice of medi-
cine for that of surgery and has made some wonder-
ful and successful operations; Thad W. Smith has
been in politics ever since he left Washington and Lee
and was our County Clerk for some 20 odd years.

“George Altgelt, who was a prominent lawyer here,
died last year; also Gus A. Kampmann died two years
ago; also Enoch Griff Jones, who was in the real
estate business, died about five years ago. Juan Bena-
vides of Laredo was a prominent business man and a
successful one up to two years. ago when he also passed
to the Great Beyond.

“Ed Demontel is a successful lawyer at Hondo,
Texas, and is doing well; Henry Boerner, who entered
W. & L. U. in 1877, is estimator in the firm of Ed
Steves & Sons, and was married about thirty years
ago. William F. Miller was a successful lawyer until
his eyesight gave way and he hied himself to the farm
and became a successful cotton farmer north of this
city. He passed away about two years ago.

Willie Kingsbury is a lawyer in Denver, Colorado.
he also being a San Antonio boy at W. & L. U. during
our time.

 

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

+H. H. Larimore, 96

At Washington and Lee Henry Hitt Larimore
played on the football teams of ’95 and 796, studied
law and dodged campus politics.

Upon graduation he located in Southern Missouri,
his home state, and hung out the proverbial shingle.
He could not dodge politics, was elected prosecuting
attorney, after one term refused to stand for reelec-
tion, resumed the general practice of law until 1909.

His ability was early recognized by the Missouri
Pacific R. R. Co. He became connected with the law
department of that railroad, which is now conceded to
be the largest railway system in the Southwest. He
continued to rise, in 1922 was made General Attorney
and inter-state Commerce counsel for the system with
jurisdiction over all lines.

Beneath this bare account there is much untold,—-
perseverance, stability, consistency; a slow steady
growth which characterizes all Railroad promotions.
Today Mr. Larimore is preeminent in his field, is rec-
ognized as a powerful force in the administration of
the famed Missouri Pacific.

In leisure hours he smokes a pipe, and when the
season opens he leaves the problems of freight and
passenger traffic, of rates and labor, for the clear
water streams of the native ozarks, where the tobacco
smoke drives off the mosquitoes as he wades up
stream or watches a bobbing cork from a comfortable
seat between jutting roots of an overhanging tree.

 

 

H. H. LartmMore
“Smokes a Pipe”

 

 

Mr. Larimore’s headquarters are in the Railway
Exchange Building at St. Louis, Mo. He plans to re-
turn to Lexington for the Virginia game on Novem-_

ber 5th.

 

 

 

 

H. W. Myers, ’94
“Climbed Seven Peaks’

FROM H. W. MYERS, ’94

H. W. MYERS, 794, who is engaged in foreign
mission work at Kobe, Japan, giving instruction in
New Testament Greek, the life of Christ and Astron-
omy, and pastor of the Kobe Union Church, writes us
a short letter as follows:

Aug. 18, 1927.
“Dear Mr. Kemp:

“Thank you for your good letter of July 13th. I
esteem it an honor to have my photo in such good
company in the Alumni Club Room. I will write a
short sentiment on a separate sheet with my name un-
der it. ,

“T am just back from a week among the high moun-
tains of the Southern Japanese Alps, proving to my-
self that I am not as old as I look. In the week we
walked seventy-five miles with heavy packs, and
climbed seven peaks varying from 9,000 to 10,500
feet in altitude, sleeping on the ground and doing our
own cooking. :

“Yours with all good wishes,

H. W. Myers,”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

Back in the Seventies

A Happy Peep into Yesterday.

September 14, 1927.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I have only recently received a copy of the MacazInrE
which is an inspiration.

Its perusal takes me back to 1872-78. How well I
remember when I embarked on the packet at Lynch-
burg on the last leg of what seemed then to me a long
journey from my far off Texas home.

The tandem team with rider on the little path, with
bugle calls at times, the early tint of Autum on foliage,
the fresh crisp air, on deck in early morn, nothing
could inspire so much the boy from the plains country.

Fresh in memory still lives the impression of that
beautiful and enjoyable ride to Lexington, and more
especially over the race course with which I was more
familiar at a later date.

The landing at the wharf, the watchers from the
student body to welcome the incomers soon to be en-
rolled, the matriculation, the assignment to class room.
the hustle-bustle and general confusion till you at last
were domiciled and ready for work.

The undergrowth had been cleared and now you
were the architect of your own fortune.

Under the guidance of able preceptors, every young
student resolved, at least for the time, to make the
most of his opportunity.

Now in the twilight of life, I look back to those six
years spent in collegiate and law courses and sum-
marize the impressive events of that period.

Prof. White, Harris, Nelson, Campbell et al., I am
sure wasted much brain matter drilling and prepar-
ing me for the future.

With keen joy I recall the honor confered when my
time came to stand silent vigil at the tomb of our be-
loved chieftain—Gen. Robert E. Lee.

At last this period of fundamental preparation came
to an end.

Fach and all with bright anticipation looked for-
ward to the great world beyond into which we were
about to enter and put to a test precept and knowledge
instilled—an honored member of our Alma Mater, or
a derelict. |

How vivid this memorable farewell. Commence-
ment exercises, the Harry Lee-Albert Sidney boat
race, the final ball, et caetera.

The coach with four-in-hand in front of the National
Hotel, seated by side of the driver, loaded in and out
by fellow students, the tightening of the reins, the
bugle call and three cheers by the onlookers, we bid
adieu and soon out of sight of our Alma Mater;
through Goshen Pass and homeward bound and the
great world.

The wheel of time has made a round, and whether

in the City of Mexico, winding my way up Chapulti-
peck, in the museum, the cathedral or in the parks en-
joying the sweet strains of music; or the plains of the
Northwest, or in the Rocky Mountains seeking my
fortune; or in the Northland, in summer, carpeted
with a medley of flowers, cascades of melted snow,
foliage ranks of every hue and color, precipitous water-
falls, a bracing atmosphere and a mid-night sun; or in
winter, mountains, hills and valleys covered, the peaks
cloaked and capped, with ice and snow and a long dark-
ness relieved by a brilliant star-light, the Northern
Lights with its shimmering, velvety, transparent move-
ment of variegated colors and reflections as if created
within—an Alaskan summer and winter—yet in the
midst of these stirring days my mind at times reverted
to my Alma Mater and lived over those days spent in
her halls of learning.

Its a joy and pleasure to look back over a rugged
trail, when the light is growing dimmer and feel that you
have done your little bit to the best of your ability.

I again resolve, so often made but broken, to visit
those sacred precincts of my beloved Alma Mater the
coming commencement and hope to meet at least a few
of those of the seventies.

With hearty good cheer to all, I send greetings.

Respectfully,
F. M. Cocxreyt, 1872-1876.

——

SERVICES AVAILABLE

Fyxperienced editorial research, statistician and mer-
chandising man (34), alumnus plus ten years’ practi-
cal experience desires connection in any of the south-
eastern or southwestern states. Business forecasting,
making of economic and industrial surveys a specialty.
Also financial writing, industrial booklets, articles for
magazines and newspapers, and planning and direct-
ing of merchandising surveys for national advertisers,
establishing sales standing and percentage of distribu-
tion of their competitive products.

SUMMERFIELD McCartney, 714,

3123 Dumbarton Avenue,
Washington, D. C.

 

Engaged. Announcement has been made of. the
engagement of Irving M. Lynn, ’19, to Miss Aubrey
Chesterman, the wedding to take place on Novem-
ber 12th, Lynchburg, Va.

 

J. Carlton Walters, ’27, is in the law office of
Hawkins, Delafield and Longfellow, a well estab-
lished firm located at 20 Exchange Place, New York
City.

 

 

24 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

David W. Pipes, 06, Pioneer

Old timers in Lexington still recall the burst of
enthusiastic applause which greeted David Pipes as
he stepped on the rostrum to receive his A. B. de-
gree from the hands of President Denny. Since his
entrance he had been popular in the University, but
as time went on he became probably the best known
and the most beloved student, both among the towns-
people and his fellow-students, who ever attended
Washington and Lee.

Just as he received his sheep-skin, a facetious
comrad threw around his neck a string of clanking
horse-shoes, tied together with W. & L. colors, and
the applause burst forth again and it was minutes
before the assembly could be quieted enough to go
on with the ceremony. | ,

Two more years in the Washington and Lee Law
School and the next year an LL.B. from Tulane,
completed his scholastic preparation for an unusually
successful career.

Soon after his graduation he married Miss Mary
Louise Minor, and practiced his profession in New
Orleans successfully for several years. Having a
large interest in the Southdown plantations at Houma,
more and more of his time was absorbed in the de-
velopments there. Finally he gave up his practice,
and with W. E. Jones, ’06, as his manager, took up
his residence on the plantation and became ab-
sorbed in the many activities of one of the largest
sugar plantations in Louisiana.

For a while it looked as if the cane business in
Louisiana had become a thing of the past. Several
hundred thousand people in Southern Louisiana were
dependent upon the cane industry for their liveli-
~ hood, and the crop with its by-products had an an-
nual value of from five to six million dollars. Pro-
duction fell off and for years the industry was prac-
tically bankrupt. Old planters blamed the weather,
soil and luck. It remained for a group of younger
men to take seriously the warnings of the Depart-
ment of Agriculture that certain diseases had in-
vaded the fields and that this unhealthy condition
could only be rectified by changing the variety of
the cane planted. The only hope for the industry
lay in the development of a disease-resisting plant.

Government experts established an experimental
station on the Southdown plantations, and in 1922
David Pipes and Elliott Jones planted twenty-one
eyes of POJ 234 cane seed, which had been devel-
oped there. From this tiny seed bed they raised
enough cane for a larger planting the next year, and
distributed some seed to other planters who were
willing to give the new idea a trial.

This year conservative estimates place the harvest
of POJ 234 cane in Louisiana at 400,000 tons, all the

growth coming from that planting of twenty-one
eyes five years ago.

The yield in 1927 will be sufficient to supply seed

to the entire state and leave 200,000 tons for grind-
ing. In the meantime, two other varieties POJ 213
and POJ 36—have been tried and seem to surpass
the original POJ 234 both in yield and disease-resist-
ing qualities, and 20,000 tons of these new varieties
will be produced this year.
- These new canes and the utilization of “bagasee”’
a by-product, from which Celotex board is made,
have been the two major developments in the sugar
cane business in Louisiana in the last six or seven
years. Bagasee is the fibre residue after the juice of
the cane has been extracted. The experiments lead-
ing to the formation of the Celotex Company were
made on the Southdown plantations, and for the
first year this plantation furnished all the raw ma-
terial used by the company. Since this time the
Celotex Company has made enormous strides and
has built up a nation-wide business.

———

AT CORNELL

Dear Mr. Kemp:

Received the August number of the ALUMNI MaGa-
ZINE and along with everyone else who reads it, think
it a splendid publication. It contains much of interest
to alumni, both old and young, and supplies the per-
sonal touch and contract which the Ring-tum Phi, as a
newspaper, naturally lacks.

I am still at Cornell studying electrical engineering
and hope to be out with an FE. E. by 1929. Please have
my ALUMNI MacazINE Sent me at the following ad-
dress this winter.

With best regards, I am
Sincerely yours,

Emmerr W. MacCorx ie, Jr., 727.

———————

H. D. Somerville, ’08, has just completed a series
of examinations prepared by Army Officers and has
been notified of his promotion to the grade of Cap-
tain in the Field Artillery Reserve Corps of the U.
S. Army. After receiving his A. B. at W. & L. in
1908, he attended the Officers Training Camp at V.
M. I. in 1918 and from there entered the Army and
was commissioned shortly after the Armistice. Since
that time he has been promoted as rapidly as the
rules would permit. He writes that his degree from
W. & L. and his training at V. M. I. have been an
“open sesame” in the Army.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

Notable

A Brief Account of Notable Events in the Lives
of Notable Alumna.

DR. EK. W. McCORKLE, B.P., ’75, minister, Rock-
bridge Baths, Va., is to preach the presbytery sermon
at a meeting in Waynesboro, Va., next spring from the
same text used in his maiden sermon before the pres-
bytery at Waynesboro fifty years ago. It 1s recalled
that the late Hon. J. J. Davis, 55, father of Hon. John
W. Davis, ’92, was an elder in attendance upon the
occasion fifty years ago.

ee

R. H. MARTIN, ’78, Charleston, West Va., chief
editorial writer of the Charleston Daily Mail, wrote
a history of his paper which appeared in a huge
birthday edition. Founder of the Augusta County
Record, writer on the Staunton News, Mr. Martin
has been with the Daily Mail for 29 years; now the
oldest employee though still spry and active, he is well
qualified to write newspaper history.

* OK OK

JUNIUS E. WEST, ’87, Suffolk, Va., completing
his second term as Lieutenant-Governor of Virginia,
announced his candidacy for the governorship to
succeed able, popular Governor H. F. Byrd. He will
advocate a continuation of the progressive policies of
Governor Byrd, industrial development of Virginia,
the democratic primary system now in vogue.

a Cae ae

MILES E. POINDEXTER. iB. Ol.-tormer
Senator from Washington, now Ambassador to Peru,
returned, visited Washington, D. C., journeyed to his
home state; at Spokane was greeted with a luncheon
by old time friends and admirers; at Seattle visited
and conversed with other friends and former asso-
ciates.

ees

AUSTIN PEAY, ’93, Clarksville, Tenn., Governor
of Tennessee died at his home in Nashville—the first
man in over one hundred to be thrice elected to that
office in Tennessee. Governor Peay was nationally
noted for the ‘Tennessee anti-evolution laws. Less
conspicuous but more noted within the bounds of his
state was his fearlessly progressive and effectively
efficient administration of the business of State. An

article on his career for publication in this issue of the
ALUMNI MAGAZINE was in process of preparation at -

the time of his death.
kk Ok

NEWTON D. BAKER, B.L., 94, Cleveland, Ohio,
sat at dinner in New York harbor on board the S. S.
Leviathan which was shortly to bear a capacity crowd
of American Legionnaires toward their Paris conven-
tion, heard U. S. vice-president, Charles G. Dawes

laud his work as U. S. Secretary of War during the
crucial years of °17-’18; heard General John J. Persh-
ing pay tribute to his efficient nonpolitical businesslike
administration of army affairs; heard the thunderous
applause of the Legionnaire-men whom he recruited
and directed as the first A. E. F.; debarked as the
former German warship nosed peacefully eastward.
+e

RANDOLPH TUCKER. SHIELDS, B.A, 9s,
M.D., professor at the School of Medicine, Shantung
Christian University, Tsinan, Shantung, China, where
he remains, wrote of a trip to Peking by way of Dairen
and Port Arthur, of his work in the hospital at T’sinan,
of the future outlook; expressed great hope for the
future of the badly crippled mission work in China.

ae Oe

HARRINGTON WADDELL, B.A., ’96, Lexing-
ton, Va., trustee of Washington and Lee, superintend-
ant of local schools, witnessed the opening of the hand-
some new $100,000 Lexington high school building,
heard it referred to as the Harrington Waddell High
School—its official name in recognition of his long and
able service as principal.

oe

C. H. MORRISSETT, LL.B., 715, Richmond, Va.,
State Tax Commissioner, president of the Richmond
W.& L. alumni club, announced that there were 24,000
tax dodgers in Virginia; showed that the number of
income tax returns had increased from 40,000 to 64,-
000; expressed the belief that all taxable income, cor-

porate and personal, would soon be listed for taxation.

eT a
ROBERT B. McDOUGLE, B.A., 717, LL.B; 720,

Parkersburg, West Va., completed his term as com-
mander of the West Va. American Legion; delivered
a detailed report at the State Legion convention (at
Williamson) was editorially lauded in the ‘West
Virginia Legionnaire” for an “administration of
achievement and constructive legion organization.”

 

JOHN G. HAYTHE, ’88, says that he “graduated
poor, unsophisticated, and at foot of the law class of
1888. Have been trying ever since to catch up, but
with indifferent success. Have never cared for poli-
tics nor held any office. Chief interests are my work,
my home and family. I remember with much pleasure
my three years at old W. & L. U. under the ‘Old
General Custis Lee, “Old Nick,” ‘Old Jim,’ ‘Old
Hatchett,’ ‘Old Doctor’ Quarles and ‘Old Charley’
Graves. I prize ‘Old Nick’s’ Latin diploma as much
as my B.L. and was sorry I couldn’t finish out my
Greek under “Old Jim.’ Ehen fugaces, fugaces la-
buntur anni.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Tommy Glasgow, B.A., ‘12, LL.B., 716

Born and raised in Lexington, Virginia, Tommy’s
propularity followed him through High School, where
he was validictorian of his class of ’08, and through
his college days at W. & L. where his popularity
again won him the distinction of delivering the val-
idictory address to his class of °12. That, of course,
was the final honor thrust upon him.

It was said by one of Tommy’s classmates—“This
guy has a heart as big as a mule, a hand like a ham, a
horrid way of receiving college honors while you wait,
and has never learned to write legibly.” Athlete, stu-
dent, orator, Y. M. C. A. shark, hail fellow, well met,
Tommy throughout his college career presented a ver-
sality of talents unusual and unique.

After his graduation in 1912, Tommy taught school
for a couple years at the Danville School for Boys,
and returned to W. & L. where he graduated in Law
in “16. He started his law’ practice in Charlotte” W.
C., in partnership with his brother Chas. S. Glasgow,
‘11. In 1917 he entered the First Officers Training
Camp at Fort Meyers, was commissioned 2nd Lieu-
tenant in the Field Artillery, assigned to the 12th
Field, 3rd light artillery, and went to France Janu-
ary, 1918. On his return from France in May, 1918,
he was assigned to Camp Jackson, S. C., as one of the
First Artillery Instructors from May until Novem-
ber, when the Armistice was signed. He was then
transferred to Camp Taylor and resigned from the
Army with commission of Captain.

In February, 1919, Mr. Glasgow entered business
with the Charlotte Hardware Company, wholesale
and retail concern of Charlotte, N. C. The follow-
ing year he became associated with Mr. T. R. Stewart
of that city and organized Glasgow-Stewart & Com-
pany, wholesale automobile supply business, which
has been operating successfully since that time. Mr.
Glasgow is president of the company.

Since locating in Charlotte many civic matters have
claimed his attention and time: He is Director of the
Co-operating Nurses’ Association, Associated Chari-
ties, Good Fellows Club, Kiwanis Club and Nationa!

 

Tommy GLAscow—‘Versattle”’

 

 

Automobile Equipment Association; he is president ot
the Charlotte Automotive Merchants Association, the
Christian Men’s Evangelistic Club, and of the South-
ern Automotive Jobbers Association for two years; he
is a trustee of Queens College and an Elder in the
Presbyterian Church.

In 1917, Mr. Glasgow married Miss Lucy Gwath-
mey of Richmond, Virginia, and they have four
children, Harriet, Tom, Jr., Grace and Dick. His
hobby should probably be designated as golf which he
manages to play about twice a week.

 

 

FROM W. T. RIVIERE, 712

William I. Riviere, ’12, of Cleburne, Texas, writes
us: A recent article by Jimmie Caskie about the W.
& L. Swing has a different date from my recollection.
I was a freshman in the fall of 08. Lawrence Witten
was cheer leader. At the first rooting practice in the
wooden grandstand on Wilson Field, Caskie an-
nounced that they would try to teach us a new college
song: he and three others sang it once; then he led us.
The song consisted of nothing but the chorus of the
Swing with football words. Basketball words and

general words were posted on the bulletin board some
months later. The verse was not published, nor writ-
ten, I think, for a year or two. I think in that fall of
1908 was the first use of the song. I remember Caskie
announced that the music had been written for some
time, and suitable words had just been written.

“By the way, for seven years I’ve been rooting for
Cleburne High School’s football team, rarely missing
a game. With one exception, and our opponent was
later ruled out for playing inelligible men, C. H. S. has
not lost any game in the seven years except to an
opponent whose rooters sang the W. & L. Swing.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

Walter C. Preston, ’15, Protests Chapel Admission

Ivorydale, Ohio,
Sept, 1), 0927.
“My dear Mr. Kemp:

“The August copy of the AtumNni Macazine has
been received and enjoyed, and enclosed you will find
my check covering subscription for the coming year.
It is always a pleasure to learn what is going on bacix
in Lexington, and the Macazinxr is especially valuable
to those of us who live at such a distance that our re-
turn visits are rare occurrences.

“The primary purpose of this letter is to voice a
protest against the admission to the Chapel. I do not
know what arguments, pro and con, were raised at the
Board meeting, nor what editorial comments may
have appeared in the press. My only information on
the subject is that contained in the ALUMNI MacazIne.

“It costs money, I know, to employ a custodian and
maintain the Chapel and the grounds. But it costs
money to employ a librarian, to pay a professor, to
sweep the floors of the Main Building. ‘The Univer-
sity is poor, but it was even poorer during the fifty
years that have passed, and yet the Chapel has been
open to all during all those years. ‘The revenue from
the thousands who come might relieve the University
of a financial burden it can hardly bear, and make
possible, perhaps, improvements that are sorely needed.
The purpose of the charge is not profit, but the effect
is surely an air of commercialism. ‘Money, please,’
as though it were a Woolworth Building, and not the
resting place of the dead! If there actually is not
money enough to meet expenses, let the grass grow a
little higher on the campus, let the plaster fall in New-
comb Hall. The University is not going to close its
doors if this admission charge is not made, and as
long as the University exists I want to see no trace of
commercialism at the tomb of Lee. ‘There are some
things that are worth more than dollars and cents, in-
tangible things that are more precious than the finest
of buildings and newest of laboratories. ‘To the man
who pays at the door it matters little whether we teil
him that it is a money-making proposition, or that
the fee goes wholly for upkeep. He pays, and either
gets or does not get value received. It is a smali
amount, but whether large or small entrance is bought
and paid for.

“It is good to know that at least ‘The action of the
Board has not been put into operation’. It would
bring to me a feeling nothing else but shame if visitors
from other sections were greeted by the sign ‘Pay as
you enter.’ If there is one place in all the world that
we should keep apart from the clinking of the dollar,
it is this shrine that is dear to all the Southland. Can-
not that one place be left open to all who care to do
homage to high character? It is a sacred spot. Can-

not we stand in reverence before that recumbent fig-
ure of the dead and silently undergo a purification of
the soul, and silently walk away, better men and better
women, without hearing the metallic ring of the
quarters as they fall? If ‘printed folders, cards and
photographs’ are to be put on sale for visitors, in the
name of all that is dear to us and doubly dear to the
fathers of some of us, let it be somewhere else than
the spot where Lee lies.

“Very truly yours, )
WALTER C) PRESTON, “15.7

ON THE GIBSON CUP

Marine Barracks

Navy Yard

Philadelphia, Penn.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I received your letter of September 20th and also
the picture of the new crew trophy cup presented to
the winning crew by Mr. Braxton D. Gibson.

I certainly appreciate Mr. Gibson’s kindness in hav-
ins photographs of the cup sent to the members of the
winning crew.

The photograph will help to keep alive the pleas-
antest memory that I have of the years spent at Wash-
ington and Lee.

If at any time I can be of assistance in any way to
either the boat club or help to perpetuate or foster
rowing at W. & L. I hope I will be called upon, be-
cause I feel indebted to the clubs.

The training that I received as a member of the
Harry Lee Crew has benefited me far more than any
classroom training that I received at Washington and
Lee. The will to win, the developing of a spirit that
wont give up no matter how tired you are or how
your arms or legs ache, and learning to work together,
these things have been of greater use to me than any-
thing which the study of books alone could have given
me.

I] would have answered your letter sooner, but in
our bayonet duelling drill I had a bayonet thrust into
my right hand and due to that I was unable to write
for some time.

With sincerest appreciation of your letter to me,
I am
Most respectfully,

JOHN SEyMouR LETCHER, ’27.

 

Horace R. Moore, ’00, represents the Buick Mo-
tor Company of Flint, Michigan, in the State of
Tennessee, with headquarters at their Atlanta
Branch, 512-516 Spring Street, Atlanta, Ga.

 

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Lee Chapel

SomsE Facts AND RECOMMENDATIONS.

Introductory

Those signing these statements and recommenda-
tions are thoroughly acquainted with the history and
traditions of the Lee Chapel and Mausoleum. They
recognize the inspirational influence of the Lee tomb
upon the reverent travelers who visit this sacred shrine.

They also recognize the still more important mould-
ing influence of the tomb and statue on the future
leaders of so many states who receive their university
training in the Lee institution, under the influence of
the Lee character and ideal.

They also unite in the attached suggestions and rec-
ommendations which are to be transmitted to the
Board of trustees to whom is committed the legal
ownership and entire control of the Chapel and its
contents and of the Lee tomb and mausoleum.

The Lee Chapel

During the second year of General Lee’s presidency
the Trustees authorized the construction of a regular
college chapel. General Custis Lee, his son and future
successor, then a V. M. I. professor but living with his
parents, selected the design and largely superintended
the construction. The present galleries were not in the
original design, which was intended to seat 500, but
were added during construction to give a more ade-
quate seating capacity. The building, 44 by 74 feet,
was completed in time for the Commencement exer-
cises of June, 1868.

The four encasing walls are of cut limestone for the
basement story and of red brick above. ‘The roof is
of slate on a board sheeting. ‘The remainder of the
building, including the basement and chapel floors and
galleries, the pillars and partitions supporting the
chapel floor and the gallaries, and also the roof trusses,
staircases, rostrum, and pews are all of highly inflam-
mable and thoroughly dried pine and poplar, most of it
with many coats of paint or varnish.

The lower or basement floor contained General
Lee’s presidential office, the remainder being used as a
library, reading-room, and Y. M. C. A. meeting place.

The university chapel, therefore, like Monticello
and Mt. Vernon, cannot be made actually fireproot
without completely rebuilding the whole interior of
different material, leaving only the outer walls unre-
moved and unchanged. Such rebuilding might and
probably would awaken much resentment in certain
circles. Since it would involve a practical reconstruc-
tion of the original building as General Lee knew it,
and since the rebuilt chapel would still be entirely too
small for an auditorium and with too little wall space
to be used as a Lee Museum or picture-gallery which
are sorely needed, we do not advocate such reconstruc-

tion, believing that with proper precautions herein
suggested or recommended the Lee Chapel can be
made as safe from fire as the similar non-fireproof
buildings of Mt. Vernon and Monticello.

The Lee Mausoleum and Annex

After General Lee’s death in October, 1870, his body
was temporarily interred in the chapel basement and
was transferred with impressive ceremonies to the Lee
tomb in the completed mausoleum in 1883.

This two-story mausoleum, 28x32 feet, is located
10 feet behind the east or rear wall of the chapel, and
connected with it by a two-story annex, containing a
staircase and north and south windows, thus making
the chapel, the annex, and the mausoleum a single
building architecturally. The mausoleum, built en-
tirely of stone, brick and cement, is entirely fireproof
except for two openings, the lower in front of the
tomb, the upper in front of the recumbent statue.
The lower is protected by a heavy door of iron
which however must be closed by hand. ‘The larger
opening, about 10x12 feet, in front of the statue opens
on the annex and chapel rostrum. This opening is
protected by two very heavy sliding fireproof panels,
which must be drawn by hand from slotted walls and
thus made to close the opening and protect the statue
should the annex or chapel catch fire. Their weight
and construction make them very difficult for a single
person to close or open.

In the east or rear wall of the chapel, behind the
chapel rostrum, a large permanent opening, 12x14 feet,
has been cut, bringing the statue, 20 feet behind the
rostrum, in sight of most of the chapel seats, when the
sliding doors of the statue-chamber are recessed into
the walls.

Recent Precautions

Three years ago the very dangerous hot air furances
located in the wooden-floored basement were removed,
and the priceless Mt. Vernon pictures were removed
to the statue-chamber. The building has also been
connected by hot-water pipes with the distant heating
plant of the university, and supplied with hot-water
radiators. Except for the thousands of visitors who
carry or throw aside cigarettes and cigars, and the
present difficulty of closing the fire-doors by entry .
through the chapel, the present situation is therefore
much safer than the former one, although by no means
free.from daily danger, especially during the season of
auto-travel.

RECOMMENDATIONS AND SUGGESTIONS

Introductory
The Lee mausoleum and its tomb and recumbent
statue can be made absolutely safe against fire by re-
constructing the present fire-doors above and below

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

and making their closing automatic. This would prob-
ably cost less than $2000.

The wooden interior of the Lee Chapel and annex
can be entirely rebuilt of steel, cement and tile at an
expense of about $18,000, or, as urgently approved
over his own signature by ex-President Custis Lee in
1909, it might be rebuilt and doubled in size, with fire-
proof construction.

We advise and recommend the following compromise
which will adequately protect the Lee Chapel, make the
Mausoleum entirely fire-proof, and will also furnish in
connection with the tomb a Lee Memorial Auditorium
and a fire-proof Gallery for pictures, relics, and other
priceless mementos of Lee and Washington and their
stirring times, of revoluntionary and Confederate
heroes and heroism, and of the glorious history of this
ancient nursery of learning*and patriotism.

Recommendations

Ist. That the fire-doors of the basement and statue-
chamber of the mausoleum be reconstructed and made
automatic and effective even should fire destroy the
chapel and annex.

Znd. That the chapel basement have its wooden
floor and pillars replaced by cement and steel, thus
making the wooden basement much safer.

3rd. That the floor, aisles, rostrum, vestibules, stair-
ways, balcony-floors and annex-floor of the chapel
auditorium be covered with an asbestos or fire-proof
mat, colored to harmonize with the present interior
wood-work.

4th. That the interior woodwork be repainted with
some fire-resisting coat of paint or enamel should
this be found practicable.

sth. That carrying or lighting cigarettes, cigars, or
pipes in any part of the chapel be absolutely for-
bidden and rigidly prevented, any custodian or janitor
allowing same to lose his or her position.

6th. That those who wish to memorialize [ee’s

marvelous life and character and perpetuate his influ-
ence and ideals erect in the rear of the chapel and in
exact accord with its architecture a two-story Lee
Memorial Auditorium, whose pillared eastern front
will face the lee Highway, and whose lower floor
with entrance immediately behind the mausoleum shall
be a fireproof memorial gallery of the Lee and Wash-
ington paintings and a fitting museum for General
Lee’s furniture and all similar paintings, relics, and
other mementos of our colonial, revolutionary, and
Confederate heroes and heroism.
VIRGINIA LEE LETCHER STEVENS,
Local Member of the Mausoleum Committee of the
Virginia Division.
Lucy BELLE LARRICK,
President of Mary Custis Lee Chap. of U. D. C.
Miniprep LkE FRANCIS,
Custodian of the Lee Chapel.

To Our Alumni:

Nothing so readily lends itself to misunderstanding,
to misinterpretation, and to misleading propaganda as
those problems and traditions which are sanctified by
religious and personal loyalties and are therefore
always considered and discussed with a passionate
partisanship.

The divisions and maledictions which have recently
centered upon the South’s most sacred shrine sadly
illustrate and emphasize this weakness and one-sided-
ness of human nature.

For the careful consideration of the alumni and
friends of Washington and Lee, I am publishing in
this issue of the ALUMNI Macazins the above carefully
written paper on the Lee Chapel problem, formulated
and signed last December, every statement of which
was studied and approved before signing by the three
U. D. C. leaders whose names and positions carry
convincing weight. Since then the whole chapel and
its basement have been worked over and made as
nearly fireproof as Mt. Vernon and Monticello. If a
suitable Lee Auditorium and Gallery could be built
near the chapel on the Lee Highway, the combination
would surpass both Mt. Vernon and Monticello as a
center of civic and moral influence, so sorely needed
in the America of Today for the world-leadership of
the America of TTomorrow.—

Yours for W. & L.
Henry Louis SMITH

RIVAL CREWS TAKE TO WATER FOR
FALL TRAINING SESSION

With only one letter man left in each varsity boat,
the candidates for the Harry Lee and Albert Sidney
crews have taken to the water for fall workouts on
North river. Both crews have practically their entire
second and freshman boats back and the problem now
is to select the men who will fill the varsity shells from
these.

Reports from the Albert Sidney camp indicate that
Captain Garvin has established a regular training
schedule and is putting his men through their paces
daily on the river. With his victorious junior varsity
crew of last spring back intact, and with additional
huskies to pick from, he hopes to produce a combina-
tion which will avenge the defeat suffered last spring.

Captain Pierpont of the Harry Lee crew has been
holding no regular practice sessions, but gets his crew
together at irregular intervals for workouts. ‘The sec-
ond and fresh-crews of last season are out in full
force, furnishing the captain with experienced oars-
men to fill the seats left vacant by graduation.

Both captains intend to continue practice until cold
weather drives them off the river. The crews will re-
sume heavy workouts in the early spring.

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

‘The Collection of Lee Relics

More than two years ago several interested alumni
of Washington and Lee started a movement looking
to the establishment of a “Tee Museum” in some suit-
able place on the university campus. For many years
—in fact, since General Lee became president of the
institution—many objects connected with him have
been in the university’s possession. In addition to
these, it is well known that there are many other
articles, papers, books, letters, and the like scattered
throughout the country in the hands of private indi-
viduals, which should be collected in one place and
put on display to the thousands who are and may be-
come interested in the life and character of General
Lee.

There is no more logical place for the establish-
ment of such a museum than Washington and Lee
University and it is to be regretted that the collection
of such relics of General Lee was not begun in a sys-
tematic way several decades ago. There is not now
in any museum or private collection extant, so far as
the’ writer is aware, an accumulation of relics pertain-
ing solely to General Lee and the members of his im-
mediate family. In contrast to this rather amazing
fact, there are several collections of Lincoln relics (or
Lincolniana, as the collectors call them), one or two
collections of Jeffersoniana, collections of relics per-
taining to Edgar Allan Poe, George Washington, and
many other notables. Further, the demand for such
articles among collectors and the fact that many let-
ters, papers, and documents become destroyed through
the ignorance or carelessness of the owners, makes :t
increasingly difficult to get together a collection of
objects pertaining to any famous personage who lived
as long as fifty or seventy-five years ago.

Consequently, the time for the opening of a Lee
Museum is now, and an excellent beginning has already
been made with this end in view.

At its meeting in June, 1926, the Board of Trustees
constituted an official Committee on the Lee Museum,
consisting of President Henry Louis Smith, Mr. Har-
rington Waddell, the Professors F. 1. Riley and Wil-
lam M. Brown. At the same time a small appro-
priation was set aside for the purchase of such relics
and papers as could not be obtained by gift or loan
and seemed to the Committee important enough to
add to the colllection. A call was sent out to the
alumni and friends of the University to come to the
aid of the Committee in this rather difficult under-
taking. Some response was made by a few alumni,
but up to this time the great majority have shown
little or no interest in the matter.

The Committee, however, has continued its work
steadily and has added a number of articles to those

already in possession of the University at the time
this movement was begun.

During the past summer the entire chapel has been
rendered as fireproof as it is possible to make it and,
upon the recommendation of the Lee Museum Com-
mittee, two basement rooms have been set aside for
purposes connected with the Museum. Both of these
rooms have remained in disuse for many years, but
they have been made very attractive as a result of the
repairs recently completed. They immediately adjoin
General Lee’s office, and the smaller room will be used
for the purpose of displaying books, pamphlets, and
photographs of a dignified and authoritative nature to
be sold to visitors at reasonable prices. The profits
from the sale of all these afticles will be added to the
general fund for the maintenance of the chapel and
Museum. ‘The Committee also hopes to receive vol-
untary contributions from many of the visitors to the
University and these amounts will also be added to
the above-mentioned fund.

In the larger room will be located the Museum
proper, where the most interesting relics of General
Lee and also some connected with General Washing-
ton will be placed on display. No admission fee will be
charged to the Museum. Here, when the arrangements
now under way are completed, will be found portraits of
various members of the Lee family, many photo-

graphs of General Lee and other Confederate gen-

earls, some household articles donated by members of
his family, letters, papers, and reports connected with
General Lee both before and after he became president
of Washington College, etc.

At its meeting held on October 11th, the Board of
Trustees, at the request of the Lee Museum Com-
mittee, made an appropriation of $1500 to provide for
the purchase of a magnificent collection of Lee and
Confederate relics owned by a gentleman in New
York State and also for the purchase of display cases
to be used in the Museum. ‘The collection referred to
has been offered to the University by its owner, Mr.
EK. Titus Black, at about half its real value and Mr.
Black is also making a number of donations to the
Museum in connection with the purchase of his collec-
tion. He isa New Yorker by birth but is much in-
terested in Confederation history and is anxious to
have his collection remain intact in some Southern in-
stitution where it will be available for historical and
research purposes during many years to come.

Recently Dr. W. P. Nye, a retired dentist of Rad-
ford, Va., and a Confederate veteran, has given to the
University a very valuable collection of Confederate
and Indian relics. The Confederate relics will be
added to the Museum collection and the Indian relics

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

A Lock of General Lee’s Hair

In the early spring of 1870 General Robert E. Lee,
accompanied by his daughter, Miss Agnes, came to
Warren, N. C., on his way to the grave of Miss Annie
Carter Lee, a younger daughter, who lies in the family
burying ground of the late Wiliam Duke Jones, of
Warren County. This spot is about twelve miles
trom Warren, N. C., and Mr. Jones was proprietor
of the White Sulphur Springs of Warren County.
Mrs. Lee and her daughter were his guests in the late
fall of 1862, and it was there that Miss Annie [ee
died. ‘The inscription on her tomb furnished by Gen-
eral Lee reads:

Annie C. Lee
Daughter of R. E. Lee and Mary Custis Lee
Born at Arlington June 18, 1832,

and died at the White Sulphur Springs,
Warren Co., N. C.
October 20, 1862.

“Perfect and true are all His ways
Whom heaven adores, and earth obeys.”

As General Lee turned weeping from her tomb, he
expressed a desire that her remains should never be
removed, and for that reason she does not lie in Lex-
ington, Va., with the other members of her immediate
fainily. |

That night in conversation with a few ladies who
had been very active in keeping green the grave of
Annie Carter Lee, he remarked that he wished it were
in his power to show his appreciation of their services.
One lady, to the surprise of all present, asked for a
lock of his hair. He laughingly replied that if his
hostess would see that Mrs. Lee did not find it out,
he would give one to each of these ladies.

One of these locks of hair was afterwards given to
a lady in Scotland who passed it on to her son, Sir
Robert Hutchinson, a member of parliament, and now
living in London, England. While in Petersburg,

Va., on his recent visit to the United States as a mem-
ber of the interparliamentary union, he remarked that
he treasured this lock of hair as one of his most valued
possessions.

Mrs. Sug E. Prestiow, in Tidewater News.

 

FROM J. C. McGEHEE, ’08

Harrisburg, N. C.
Dear Sir:

I have read with pleasure the ALUMNI MaGazINeE.

The binding is fine, the contents are excellent. After

looking over the MacazINE, seeing the scenes on paper,
it made me think of those times when I walked around
those classical halls, breathing into my life the same
atmosphere that that great military genius, that South-
ern patriot, that grand American who loved every-
thing that is chivalrous, and in whose heart was no
guile; who was magnanimous both in times of war and
peace, holding not in his heart revenge at the hour of
defeat; but regarding the end of hostilities as an act
of God’s special providence. General Lee, the \ery
flower of chivalry, the real quintescence of everything
righteous and just. Mr. Kemp, I suppose Washington
and Lee is still Washington and Lee. Suppose the
atmosphere is as pure and classic as ever, with that
dash of southern hospitality which those good people.
of Lexington have for a century and a half given as
their portion, and have left as a heritage to those who
shall come after them. :

I suppose Dr. “Liv” Smith, and Dr. “Harry”
Campbell are still holding the “first seats in the
synagogue,” and long may “their bow” remain with
you, Washington and Lee students!

Let me thank you for this copy of the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE,

Respectfully,
J. C. McGeHes, ’08.

 

 

will be placed on display elsewhere in the University.
Dr. Nye is not an alumnus of Washington and Lee
but voluntarily and without solicitation has given his
collection to the University with no restrictions be-
cause of his admiration for General Lee and the in-
stitution over which the latter presided for five years.
Late last spring Dr. George Bolling Lee, ’93, of
New York City, grandson of General Lee and a mem-
ber of the board of Trustees of the University, sent as
a loan to the Lee Museum a leather trunk which had
belonged to General Lee and which contained many of
the most valuable and cherished of the family relics.
Many of these articles will be placed on display in the
basement of the chapel when the necessary equipment
has been installed. The contents of the trunk con-
sisted of a clock, several books, handkerchiefs, a razor,
a watch, spoons, and other objects, all owned by Gen-

eral Lee, a linen suit worn by him, two locks of his
hair, a pair of pistols which had once been the property
of George Washington, General Lee’s commission as
[ieutenant-Colonel in the U. S. Army, a pair of his
epaulets, etc.

At the present time the Committee needs the ear-
nest and enthusiastic co-operation of all the alumni,
especially in its work of getting donations to the
Museum. There are still living a number of our
alumni who attended Washington and Lee when Gen-
eral Lee was its president. There are others who
know of the existence of relics, papers, documents, and
the like pertaining to General Lee and the Confederacy
or to George Washington. Any such articles will be
gladly received, either as loans or gifts, and prompt
acknowledgment to the donors or lenders will be made.

WiLiLtiam M. Brown, 714.

 

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Sculptor of the Recumbent Statue

In the Rockbridge County News William J. Robert-
son contributes an interesting article on Hon. E. V.
Valentine, famous southern sculptor who executed
among other notable works the recumbent statue of
General Robert EF. Lee which reposes above the tomb
in the Lee Chapel. He says:

Edward Virginius Valentine today is a_ white-
haired, venerable man of ninety. His home its in
Richmond. He was a friend of Edwin Booth and
Joseph Jefferson. He heard ‘Thackery and Dickens
and Rembrandt Peale lecture in old Richmond, anc
heard the sweet voiced Jenny Lind. ‘Today he lives in
a world of his own in the Virginia capital, one of the
Last of the Mohicans among a fast disappearing band
of southern classicists.

The Lee mausoleum in the basement of the Lee
Chapel has become the foremost southern shrine for
there lie the bodies of the former confederate chieftain
and members of his family.

The mausoleum is a brick annex built after Lee’s
death against the rear wall of the chapel, and it is in
the upper floor of the annex that the stately recumbent
statue rests. Through an archway cut in the rear
wall, the statue is visible behind the rostrum from
most of the chapel’s seats. On the walls are hung
many historic pictures.

Valentine was a young man of thirty-two when he
began work from life on a bust of Lee. This was
early in 1870, Lee’s last year of life. In his study in
Richmond Valentine recently told how the greatness
of Lee and the chieftain’s austerity badly frightened
him. He soon was put at ease when the General re-
counted interesting anecdotes of his eventful life, re-
lating to war and peace.

It was Valentine’s original purpose to make a large
bust of Lee, but when the general died in October,
1870, he conceived the idea of chiseling the recumbent
statue. He was nearly thirteen years working on it,
and the statue was unveiled in 1883. The unveiling
was marked by a ceremony attended by notables from
all parts of the South. Valentine, a lifelong lover of
Greek art, incorporated in his work the Greek spirit
and that rare Greek finesse.

The young sculptor first planned a medical career
and was a student at the Medical College of Virginia.

His interest in anatomy and his inherent artistic
talents led him into the field of sculpture. For a time
he studied drawing under Couture, and later entered
Jouffroy’s atelier in Paris. He was in Florence under
Bonafuti, and he studied in Berlin under Kiss. Then
he became a student in the royal academy of arts in
Berlin.

Valentine’s works are little known outside of the
South, but to Southern people they are as familiar as

the Nelson statue is to Londoners or as the Napoleon
statue is to Parisians. Notable among the finest works
are a heroic bronze figure of “Stonewall” Jackson an-
other Southern idol, at Lexington; a large bronze
figure of General John C. Breckenridge at Lexington,
Ky.; a bronze statue of General W. T. Wickham at
Richmond; a marble statue of Thomas Jefferson in
Richmond, said to be one of the best likenesses of the
author of the Declaration; a classic group of Andro-
mache and Astyanax, the marble figure of “The Blind
Girl,” the figure of “Judas and Grief,” bronze busts of
Mathew Fontaine Maury, John B. Minor of the Uni-
versity of Virginia, Colonel John S. Mosby and Gen-
eral Albert Sidney Johnston, and heroic bronze statues
of Jefferson Davis and allegorical female figures sym-
bolical of the South wrought for the city of Richmond.

A quiet unassuming man of the old Virginia school,
Valentine shuns the limelight. He is one of those rare
artists who literally has never been willing to com-
mercialize his art as art is commercialized today. Per-
haps the best index to his character is the pain with
which he views what he conceives to be the lack of
broad classical education in the modern college and in
the modern home. He himself is a fine Greek and
Latin scholar. He holds that the present generation 1s
driving at too mad a pace to acquire a thorough educa-
tion in the arts.

“The automobiles and the movies,” he says, “are as
responsible as any other two factors in modern life for
the breaking down and destruction of old standards
of art—music, paintings, literature and sculpture.”

He hopes that there will be a renaissance of art, but
fears that it will not come in his day. So called artists,
he thinks, are striving too ardently to be sensational—-
and this applies to all forms of art, particularly to
literature.

“In statuary, for example,’ he says, “Women’s legs
today are made twice as long as they should be.”

Next to his sculpture, which perhaps expresses the
spirit of the old classical South better than any other,
Valentine has written a diary which up to this writing
is without a break of a single day. He refuses to
divulge what is in his diary but has announced that he
is using the material for his memoirs, which he hopes
to publish some day. The diary covers the most in-
teresting period of Southern history, if not of Amert-
can history, and its comments unquestionably have to
do with a great number of men and women whose
names adorn the pages of history.

 

Prof. Lewis Tyree left for Newark, N. J., where he
has accepted a professorship for three years in the
New Jersey Law School. Mrs. Tyree and little son
will spend the winter in Lexington.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

Alumni News

DIET J. Julius Moore, “61, recently at the
home of his son, George FE. Moore, at Fancy Hill.
He was eighty-nine years of age, the oldest living
alumnus of W. & L., being a student there when the
Civil War begun.

MR. AND MRS. ALGERNON B. CHANDLER,
67, of Bowling Green, Virginia, celebrated their six-
tieth anniversary on September 10th with a dinner
party at their home. Mr. Chandler celebrated his 84th
birthday in August.

DIED. Judge Gardner Tyler, 69, a student at
Washington College under General Robert FE. Lee,
Monday, September 5th, at his home, Sherwood
Forest, in Charles City county. At the time of his
death he was judge of the fourteenth judicial circuit.
an office which he had held since 1904.

DIED. Rev. Wm. A. Dabney, ’72, at his home in
New Orleans, following an acute illness of ten days.

DIED. Judge N. A. Stedman, ’75, died on Sep-
tember 7th at his home in Austin, Texas. Holding a
prominent place in the legal world he had in the past
several years been attorney for 14 principal railroads,
and was for a time lawpartner of Judge F. H. Wil-
liams, formerly a member of the State Supreme Court.

REV. ROBERT FISHBURNE CAMPBELL, ’79,
is pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Asheville,
N. C.; was elected moderator of the General Assem-
bly of the Presbyterian Church in the U. S. at the
meeting held last May in Fl Dorado, Ark. Dr. Camp-
bell is a son of the late Prof. John 1. Campbell and a
brother of Dean Harry D. Campbell.

DIED. Helm Bruce, ’80, of Louisville, Ky., after
a short illness at St. Joseph’s Infirmary.

DR: AND MRS. CURTIS BALIAGH, 82, ‘of
Philadelphia, Penna. spent several days in Lexington
during September. Dr. Ballagh spent his boyhood in
Rockbridge county. He is now professor at the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania. :

WILLIAM S. CAMPBELL, ’83, spent the three
years following his graduation from W. & L. at Union
Theological Seminary at Hampden-Sidney, Va.; was
pastor two churches in Gloucester Co., Va., 1886-88:
two churches near Richmond, 1888-91; three churches
in Casewell Co., N. C. 1891-96; church in Richmond,
1907-11; Editor Presbyterian of the South since 1910.
Received D.D. from Hampden-Sidney and King Col-
leges. He has resided in Richmond since 1896.

REV. JAMES A. McCLURE, ’91, of St. Peters-
burg, Fla. and his brother Dr. M. T. McClure, ’05

of the University of Illinois, were recent visitors to

‘their sister Mrs. S. Walter McCown of Kerrs Creek,

Va.

920OB K. HIRSCH, 02, of Vioksbure, Miss.
was a recent visitor to Lexington.

DIED. Governor Austin Peay, ’93, chief executive
of ‘Tennessee since 1923, at his home in Nash-
ville, on October 2nd. He was the only governor of
that state to die while in office, and the first governor
in a hundred years to attain the office the third time in
succession. |

After his attendance at Washington and Lee, Gover-
nor Peay graduated from Center College, Danville,
Ky., in 1895. Less than a year later he was admitted
to the bar and began the practice of law. Following
his marriage he removed to Clarksville, Tenn., where
he maintained a residence the rest of his life.

DR. AND MRS. LEROY C. BARRETT, ’97, re-
cently returned to Hartford, Conn. after a short visit
to Lexington.

THOMAS H. WEBB, ’97, who lives in Austin,
Texas, is assistant State Highway Engineer.

H. ST. G. TUCKER CARMICHAEL, ’99, has
been promoted from General Superintendent to Vice
President in Charge of Production of the Kentucky
Rock Asphalt Company, Inc., the largest producers of
natural rock asphalt in the U. S.

Mk. AND MRS. ROBERT GLASGOW, ’00, of
Charlotte, N. C., were in Lexington recently to visit
Dr. Robert Galsgow, ’75, who has been ill at his home
on Jefferson Street.

H. B. GRAYBILL, ’02, who is Professor of Edu-
cation at Greenbrier College for Women, Lewisburg.
West Va., writes us that he has been doing some in-
teresting work both at G. C. W. and at the Greenbrier
Military School in trying to teach students how to
study. “Some of W. & L.’s problems will be solved’’,
he writes, “when there are more high schools and
junior colleges teaching students how to study before
sending them up for the last years at the big univer-
sity.” :

REV. HARRY W. HAMILTON, ’04, writes us:
“IT am now in the last lap of my 18th year as a Pres-
byterian Home Missionary in the Winter Garden Sec-
tion of Southwest Texas, with headquarters at Cot-
ulla, serving for many years a territory of more than
ten thousand square miles as the sole representative of
our church. The ALUmni MacaziInr is full of absorb-
ing interest and awakens many precious memories.
My little son, aged 10, hopes to go to dear old W. L,.
U. in due time.”

 

 

4 , THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

J. P. IRWIN, '09, writes: pee
“Am still engaged in blast _
furnace engineering with Ar-
thur G. McKee and Company
of Cleveland, Ohio. Was
married in 1919 to Miss
Josephine Saxer of this city
and our family now consists
of William Pryor II, 3%
years, (W>.&@ LL. class’ of
1942) and Sarah Elizabeth,
3 months. We live in Rocky
River, a suburb about 9 miles
west, and will be delighted to
see anybody from W. & L.
or Lexington. I see Clyde
Hoge of Cincinnati and John
McChord of Cleveland once in a while. Would be
particularly pleased to hear from any members of my
class who may be in this part of the country.”

EDGAR (“CONFUCIUS”) SYDENSTRICKER,
’02, has been elected to a vacancy in the International
Institute of Statistics, and recently was appointed as
director of epidemiological research for the Milbank
Memorial Fund, New York, which is financing ex-
tensive public health activities in this country. He
retains his directorship of statistical research in the
U. S. Public Health Service which he has held for 12
years. In 1922-24 upon invitation of the League of
Nations, he inaugurated and served as chief of the
League’s statistical and epidemiological Service, is a
Fellow of the American Statistical and Public Health
Associations, and has published numerous scientific
papers and reports. His home is in Washington, D.
C. with offices there and in New York City.

MAJ. JOHN McCLURE, ’03, head of the depart-
ment of Chemistry of the New Mexico Military In-
stitute, Roswell, New Mexico, recently visited his
former home at Spottswood, Va:

VINCENT M. MILES, ’07, of Fort Smith, Ark.
was a visitor to Lexington recently. |

MR. ALBERT STEVES, JR., 06, was a visitor
to Lexington during the early. part of September.

HONORABLE CLIFTON A. WOODRUM, 708,
congressman from the 6th District of Virginia, was
the speaker at a recent banquet given by Lexington
Council No. 179 Jr. O. U. A. M. The occasion was
the climax to a drive of new members.

MR. AND MRS. C. $8. GLASGOW, ’09,-’14, took
a three weeks’ trip to Cuba during October.

CAPT. REUBEN RAGLAND, °09, of Jackson-
ville has been the guest of Col. R. Barclay Poague at
the V. M. I.

 

 

 

W. P. lawiy,
“Class of ee.

 

MARRIED. Rayford W. Alley, ’10, of New York
City to Mrs. Henrietta Wardwell of Malverne, L. I.
on July 30th.

REV. GOODRIDGE A. WILSON, Jr., ‘12, and
family of Pulaski were recent visitors to their parents,
Dr. and Mrs. G. A. Wilson on Morningside Heights.

THOS. F. OGILVIE, 711, is practicing law in At-
lantic City, N. J. with offices in the Guarantee Trust
Building. |

In a short communication from PAUL A. ROCK-
WELL. '11, he says, “Ilave very little of interest to
say ahout myself. My chief achievement of the past
year has been the finding of an apartment in Paris, at
51 rue St. Placide—(anyone familiar with post-War
housing conditions in Paris will appreciate the Her-
culean efforts involved in finding a place to live in that
city). The French courts have consistently refused
me the right to take possession of a house which |
bought in Paris four years ago, on the sole ground
that I am a ‘sale American,’ and therefore have no
legal rights over property in France. Am writing an
article and short story now and then.”

A. G. LIVELY, ’12, is a member of the firm of
Bird and Lively, practicing law in Lebanon, Virginia.

MR. AND MRS. W. J. WILCOX, 712, and child-
ren of Allentown, Penna. were visitors in Lexington
during the early fall.

WO TAYLOR: THOM) Jai) 13; is ‘now at
Princeton, N. J. He writes: ‘While I retain a con-
nection with the U. S. Geological Survey I will be
giving courses in coal and oil, structural geology, and
exploratory methods at Princeton this winter, and |
am enjoying the introduction to my surroundings
very greatly. Some might be interested to know that
at the request of the Navy Department, Dr. E. M.
Spieker (of Ohio State) and I made a detailed field
study of Teapot Dome this past summer, on which I
am now working up a report for the navy, through
the Geological Survey.”

DAVID H. LINDSAY,
was elected Common-
wealth’s Attorney for Glou-
cester County, Virginia.

 

D. H. Linpsay, ’23
“Commonwealth’s Atty.”

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

JOHN BELL, ’21, writes that he is “‘still practic-
ing law in Tampa, Florida, and getting along fine.
Associated with the firm of Knight, Thompson and
Turner. There are a number of W. & L. men here
and we have an organization. May get back to W.
& L. sometime this year.”

DIED. J. Hodges Fitzgerald, ’21, at Stuart Circle
Hospital, Richmond, Virginia, September 17th. Dr.
Fitzgerald had graduated from the School of Den-
tistry at the Medical College of Virginia with the class
of 1927, and had been appointed resident dentist at
the State Epileptic Colony near Lynchburg.

“ALUMNI MAGAZINE is excellent. I always read
it through the minute'I receive it.”—Frank M. Pol-
lock, Zh:

AUSTIN BLACKWOOD TAYLOR, 21. prac-
ticed law in Little Rock, Ark., until May, 1924, when
he became general counsel for Crusader Companies,
Inc. at New York City, Shreveport, Louisiana, and F 1
Dorado, Ark. He is now general counsel for Cru-
sader Pipe Line Company of Louisiana and also vice-
president of that and affliated companies.

LAWRENCE HAYNES, ’22, writes us that he
is doing graduate work in chemistry and physics at
Princeton this year, together with teaching at the
Lawrenceville School, New Jersey.

MARRIED. Robert Howerton, ’22, of Charlotte,
N. C. to Miss Mildred Lubbock of that city on Octo-
ber Ist.

WAYLAND R. KERNS, °22, js president and
general manager of the K. and T. Adjustment Bu-
reau, with offices in the Frankenberger Building,
Charleston, West Va.

A. R. (“RED”) HAWKINS, ’25, who has been
in Florida for the past two years, is now employed by
the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Company at Kyrock,
Kentucky, as Cost Accountant. It is a responsible po-
sition and “Red” is making good there, we hear.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
One Year, $2.50; $4.00 Two Years
or, both
THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE, 1 year
THE ALUMNI DIRECTORY, 1 copy
$4.50

Send check or money order to

VERBON E. KEMP, Editor, Drawer 897
LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

HOTEL ROBERT E. LEE

Lexington, Va.

100 Rooms

Fireproof - - -

NEW MODERN

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

 

 

36

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND

PRINTERS

Office Equipment and Supplies

ROYAL DALTON

TYPEWRITERS ADDING MACHINES

SURBER
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

M. H. CONNER, 710, of Tuskegee, Alabama, was

a visitor to Lexington recently.

ROBERT R. WITT, 713, of San Antonio, Texas,
spent several days during September at his old home
in Lexington.

PAUL D. BARNS, 715, appointed by Governor
Martin, Judge of the Civil Court of Record, Miami,
Florida, January, 1926; appointed in July 1927 as
Judge of the Circuit Court sitting at Miami, Florida,
being one of its four presiding judges.

A prospective W. & L. alumnus and future judge
of the same court is Paul Dryden Barns, Jr.—age
three and one half years. |

FRANK B. HAYNE, 715, has just returned from
his three-year detail in ‘Tientsin, China, and is now on
duty as Assistant Adjutant, Army War College,
Washington, D. C.

ENGAGED. ‘The wedding of Mr. Stuart Moore,
"15, and Miss Hilah White Pendleton, both of Lex-
ington, Virginia, will take place on November 9th.

J. L. WILLIAMS, °15, has been Sales Engineer
with the Bristol Company, Waterbury, Conn. for the
past seven years. He became District Manager at
Boston, in December, 1925. In August he was mar-
ried to Miss Gladys Mifflin of Cambridge, Mass.

MARRIED. J. Lewis Howe, Jr., °18, to Miss
Mary Buchanan Scott West, October 4, 1927, Shang-
hai, China.

W. F. MYERS, ’18, writes us: “Foreign banking
has been my hobby for the entire time since I left
Washington and Lee. It has carried me to some real
remote corners of the world, Manilla and Cebu, in the
Philippines, as well as Cristobal in the Canal Zone.
For the last two years Chase National Bank, New
York City, has been my bread and butter, and I al-
most omitted that since July it has served for two of
us. It’s a happy life and I recommend it. Mrs. My-
ers was formerly Miss Ruth Hilliard of Morrisburg.
Ontario.”

BORN. ‘To Mr. and Mrs. Verbon FE. Kemp, ’19,
a son on September 15th.

DR. B. CRAIG PATTERSON, ’87, missionary to
Tenghsien, China, was elected moderator by accla-
mation at meeting of Lexington Presbytery which
opened at Mossy Creek church. Dr. Patterson is
fourth on the Lexington presbytery roll in continuous
service.

CHESTER 5. SHADE, ’20, is practicing law at
9051 Sunset Boulevard, Los Angeles, California.

DR. R. T. B. SMITH, ’20, of Lankenan Hospital,
Philadelphia, Penna. and Miss Willie Bell Gale of
Wilmington, Delaware, were married in August.

 

 

 

 

Se oe na NR ae
\

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

RAYMOND (DUPIE”) SMITH, 22. writes
us: ‘After a year instructing the youth of the coun-
try at McCallie School in Chattanooga and two years
at Harvard Business School, have been financing au-
tomobile sales as assistant Secretary of the Carolina
Credit Company, Greensboro, N. C. Am moving to
New York City on October 12th to accept position
with the Piedmont Finance Company, address—17
Battery Place, New York City.”

BORN. ‘lo -Mr.'dnd Mrs. John Drye, [4 723, of
New York City, a son on October Ist.

A WIKDDING of much interest was that of George
Cantrell Mason, Jr., 23, of Memphis, Tenn. and Miss
Kate Rucker Penn of Madison, N. C. which took
place at the home of the bride on October 8th. Sev-
eral W. & L. alumni officiated as groomsmen— May-
nard Holt, 27, J; Vaughn Penn, (23, Pemberton
Penn, ’26, and Jack Caskie, 24; and prior to the cere-
mony a musical program was given by Richard I’.
Penn, ’21, and Miss Eloise Bass.

MR. EMMETT W. POINDEXTER, ’23, of New
York has just returned to the city after visiting his
parents at Greenlee, Va.

J; RICHARD STURM) 723) and. His: Gide the
former Miss Madrienne Tandram of Del Monte,
Calif., sailed recently for Tocopilla, Chile where Mr.
Sturm will be employed by the Anglo-Chilean Ni-
trate Company of New York, as an engineer. Mr.
Strum’s contract in Chile covers a three year period.
For the past two years he has been located in the De!
Monte section of California where he was employed
as civil engineer.

MARRIED. Robert Murray (“Cubby”) Bear,
24, of Danville, Kentucky, to Miss Gladys Center of
New York City, on August 6th. The couple were
visitors to Lexington soon after their marriage.

BORN. To Mr. and Mrs. Robert Stuckenrath,
22, a son, Robert, Jr., om July 23, 1927.

oT

 

 

SHERIDAN HOTEL

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

LARGE, COMFORTABLE ROOMS

REASONABLE RATES

 

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

eS

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, Satety arom fire, <conomy, and beauty: You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & COs lac.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

 

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Quality

Service

‘Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

38

 

 

READY TO SERVE YOU
WHEN YOU COME BACK

Waffles and Sandwiches

 

THE SUBWAY KITCHEN, INC.
Lexington, Va.

 

~McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MARRIED. John Gibson Guerrant, ’24, of Rich-
mond, Va. to Miss Frances Paxton of Roanoke, on
September 2nd.

MARRIED. Pembroke Decatur Gwaltney, III,
24, of Smithfield, Va. to Miss Margaret Coke Atwill
of Petersburg, Va. on October. 12th.

J. MILLEDGE NAIL,’’24, who is practicing law
in Memphis, Tenn., was married in June to Miss
laura Patton of Watertown, Tenn.

GLENN RICHARD STOUTT, ’24, in business
with the American Trust & Banking Company, of
Chattanooga, Tenn., was married to Miss Maud Dyer
of that city in August.

MARRIED. Preston C. Manning, ’25, of Columbia,
S. C. to Miss Virginia Williams of that city, on Sep-
tember 27th. :

THOMAS S. MOORE, ’25, is taking a course in
Bible study at Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va.

JAMES G. SMITH, Jr., 25, sends us the follow-
ing news: “I have been at the Medical School at U-
niversity of Alabama for the past two years and enter
Junior class of Rush, Chicago, in October. On July
11, 1927, I married Miss Frances Eugene Fortson of
Paducah, Ky. The madam and I will be in Chicago
for the next two or three years.

HERMAN Jo oWOSELDOR IC #25, nas ventered:

Union Presbyterian Theological Seminary at Rich-
mond as a student.

J. F. FORSYTH, ’27, is employed in the treasury
department of the Gulf Electric Company, of Mobile.
Ala. He was married in September to Miss Bettye
Lewis Hix, of Roanoke, Virginia.

J. N. GARBER, Jr., ‘27, is associated with Camp-
bell, Inc. Shoe Manufacturers, Harrisonburg, Vir-
einia.

HANSEN C. HARRELL, ’27, is now teaching
French and Latin at the Virginia Episcopal School,
Lynchburg, Va. He sends greetings.

ALLEN HARRIS, Jr.,’27, writes from Boston:
“There are four W. & IL. graduates in the Harvard
Graduate School of Business Administration—Pete
Maddux, ’26; Geo. S. Farrar, "20; Eldred Cayee, 27
and myself.

C. WELLES LITTLE, ’27, is now working in the
Judicial Dept. of the U. S. Fidelity and Guaranty
Company in Baltimore.

GEORGE F. MAYNARD, Jr., ’27, is practicing

law with the firm of Maynard, Fitzgerald and Ven-
able, of Clarksdale, Miss.

i

Diy

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of the
various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business at a
distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or location are

in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are iny

Rates on application.

ited to place their cards in the directory.

 

 

FRATERNITY PHONOGRAPH
- RECORDS! :

NOW! All popular fraternity and sorority songs
recorded by noted Victor-Brunswick artists.

WRITE TODAY FOR FREE CATALOG of 50

new college and fraternity records.

Fraternity Record Co. |

145 W. Adams Plymouth, Ind. |

 

ALUMNI

 

WHEN

K, AND T, ADJUSTMENT BUREAU |

REPORTS CoLLEcTIONS INVESTIGATIONS
— Room 206 Frankenberger Building,
All Business Strictly Confidential
Charleston, W. Va. |

 

PATRONIZE

A GOOD INVESTMENT

 

ALUMNI

 

 

TRANSACTING _

 

 

BUSINESS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THOSE GENTLEMEN, WHO REQUIRE A
DISTINGUISHED AND AUTHENTIC INTERPRE-

_ TATION OF STYLE IN THE VARIOUS APPURTE.-

NANCES OF DRESS, SHOULD BE INTERESTED TO
LEARN THAT FINCHLEY OF NEW YORK WILL
CONDUCT EXHIBITIONS IN VARIOUS CITIES OF

IMPORTANCE IN THE STATES LISTED BELOW.

iT WILL RESULT TO YOUR ADVANTAGE TO
ATTEND THESE EXHIBITIONS WHEN IN YOUR
LOCALITY. WRITE DEPARTMENT C FOR
EXACT DATES AND PLACE OF EXHIBITIONS.

_ ARKANSAS | MASSACHUSETTS PENNSYLVANIA
ALABAMA | MICHIGAN _ RHODE ISLAND
CONNECTICUT NEW HAMPSHIRE SOUTH CAROLINA
GEORGIA | NEW JERSEY TENNESSEE
INDIANA NEW YORK TEXAS
KENTUCKY NORTH CAROLINA VIRGINIA

LOUISIANA — OKLAHOMA WASHINGTON, D.C,
MARYLAND OHIO _ WEST VIRGINIA

 

FIFTH AVENUE AT FORTY-SIXTH STREET, NEW YORK

lvew Chicago Shop Opens in Noventber

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

‘YE SONS OF

~\ Washington & Lee

FROM FAR AND NEAR

 

IT HAS BEEN.
PROCLAIMED THAT |

 

Home- LU
HEAR YE AND GOVERN YOURSELVES ACCORDINGLY

eo

 

—

 

_ es. -

returning sons and on that day eleven strong men and true
carry your colors in sporting combat upon the football arena

| For on that day Alma Mater receives and entertains her
; against the Cavaliers of Virginia.

Therefore, it behoves one and all to be on
hand to share the glories of the “ay and to pay
; homage to Alma Melee L

 

 

 

bie
Ma) | enn ——

 

