         

LIBRARY OF

io = WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

a LEXINGTON, VA. 24450

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

OF 1 JUN 29 1077
Washington and Lee University
Volume IV APRIL, 1928 -Number 2

 

 

 

“Great Oaks from

Small cAcorns Grow

 

YESTERDAY

 

TODAY

$2.50 Per Year 50c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business

ata distance, or of a special professional character.

Alumni of all professions. who by reason of specialty or loca-

tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

rectory. Rates on application.

 

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
A'trORNEY-AT-LAW

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg.,
Atlantic City, N. J.

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAWYER

General practice in all State and
Federal “Courts

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg.,
Huntington, West Virginia

R. EF. MOORE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.,
Bluefield, W. Va.

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, 718 and ’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

DouciAs, OBEAR & DoucLAs

Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

 

WE COLLECT IN ANY CITY IN
THE UNITED STATES

K. & T. ADJUSTMENT BUREAU
Reports, CoLLECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS
All Business Strictly Confidential

Room 206 Kleeman Building, Summers St.
Charleston, W. Va.

 

f

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE

Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Florida

W.H. Jackson, 08 J. W. Duprzz, 21

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virgima

 

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS
Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401 Philadelphia

Compliments of the President of the
Alumni, Inc.

EK. C. CAFFREY, ’09

ROBERT B. McDOUGLE

AYTTORNEY-AT-LAW

15-19 Citigens National Bank Building,
Parkersburg, W. Va.

 

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713
AYTORNEY AT LAW

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virgina

 

James E.. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
Law OFFICES
Commercial National Bank Building,

Shreveport, Loutsiana

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DIcE

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

 

ALEX M. HITZ

ATTORNEY AT LAW

210 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlanta, Georgia

 

Frat Peis diets ete v

 

tS cords!

NOW! All popular fraternity and sorority songs recorded by
noted Victor - Brunswick artists. WRITE TODAY FOR FREE
CATALOG of 50 new college and fraternity records.
oe
Fraternity Record Co.
W. ADAMS PLYMOUTH, IND.

 

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN,

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

"10

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L,., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

 

 

Ms Ta

pene

 

 

iia tle na ret TE retin cengenNRgaase—<manmmanan nM hat pital ini

 

ish elle, dexigitn cocnmeilliy Naas

E. P. DAVIS, President

C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

MAIL ORDERS FOR

RECORD, W. & L. Swing—60c. prepaid SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00

Promptly Filled

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager

R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

‘THIEF ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

E. C. Carrrey, President
E. L. Grauam, Jr., Treasurer

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

VERBON E,.. Kemp, Editor
Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
"he Year 2 7.2020..0 5 a, eee 23
Board of ‘Trustees Meets, etc.......7...0.. 3. 6 Minutes of Alumni Assn. ‘T'rustees Meeting .... 24
Finals, 1928)... 07 7 Jona. Munce, Trustee .......... oe Zo
With the Baculty ......-.205.0 5. 8-9 tee ew, 1b a. 26
speakers] tl cl 10 Phi Beta Kappa Honors Eleven Alumni ........ 27
Athletics 22.0000 11-12 Peete: Womeldorf, 18 _...7...........200, 28
Alumni: Association Meetings .:............-. 13-15 Wem « FPOdUCTIONS. 4... 2 ee bes
Fancy Dress 2....22..56..1-5. 2 16 Gee) ell, 20 Oe a 30
Class Poetoridge 22:2. 0.0.5550 16 <A). Campbell, 27 8. 31
The College Bell (Dean H. D. Campbell)...... 17-18 George Washington, Patron (V. E. Kemp) ....32-34
Lee Museum Opened ......,.35 2 18 ee ke ee 34
Twentieth Century Undergraduate Training Differs Ne ee 35
(President Hl. |. Smita) .02 0]. ee 9 eee 36-39
Lee, the American (New York Times) ........ 21

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

noes:

FACSIMILE OF WASHINGCTON’s LETTER BESTOWING Gift on Liperty Hart ACADEMY : |

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Vor. [V APRIL, 1928 No. 2

THE ALUMNI Macazine, Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

 

The Year

Students assembled Founders Day, January 19th,
heard President Henry Louis Smith review the
year, heard Trustee Charles J. McDermott’s pene-
trating address, “Who’s on Your Campus.” Unim-
pressive and inadequate for the occasion was the
gym-auditorium. pce and adequate were the
speeches.

Able trustees met, elected able Newton D. Baker,
04, to their membership, elected George W. 5t.
Clair, 90, Rector, appointed Rev. W. W. Morton
professor of Moral Philosophy and Bible, appointed
Dr. Reid White, ’85, University Physician, regret-
fully accepted the resignation of Dr. B. A. Wooten,
professor of Physics, changed the date set for Com-
mencement to June 5th.

Lexington alumni and faculty dined at the Alumni
Building, heard Dean H. D. Campbell, 82, Trustee
James R. Caskie, ’06, President H. L. Smith; or-
ganized the Rockbridge County Alumni Association,
E. L. Graham, 711, president, M. W. Paxton, Jr.,
°20, secretary.

Alumni met at Louisville, Ky., at Ridanend. Va.,
at San Antonio, Texas, in celebration of Founders
Day.

Girls came from Keokuk and Kalamazoo, from
New York and New Orleans, from Greensboro and
Queensboro, Rockingham and Birmingham, Jack-
sonville and Louisville, and way stations, donned
classic costume, appeared with student escorts as
characters from Arabian Nights, Don Quixote, Ro-
meo and Juliet, ‘he Rivals, The Three Musketeers,
etc., at the twenty-second Fancy Dress Ball. Mer-
ited praise poured on Director C. E. L. Gill, °22, for
his usual superlative interpretation.

Winter sports disappointed. Numerous basket-
eers failed to compose a winning quint. Hard work-
ing wrestlers failed to register consistent victories.
Boxers broke training, had their schedule cancelled.
Indoor track men won a relay, were inactive.

Reports from the semester’s work and final ex-
aminations were made. Sixty students became sub-
ject to the elastic automatic rule; 33 were re-in-
stated. Mid term entrants brought student enroll-
ment to 909. Withdrawals brought actual student
attendance down to 834.

President Henry Louis Smith spoke at the Rock-

bridge County Lee-Jackson Day dinner ; before the
Lexington Kiwanis Club, at Washington College,
Chestertown, Md., visited Greensboro, N. C., pressed
his campaign for the modernization of Washington
and Lee’s curriculum requirements.

Students assembled at the gymnasium, heard Ar-
thur Rugh, student “Y” Secretary from China,
heard Baron Alexander von Myendorff, British col-
lege professor and Russian refugee; greeted their
old friend, Mr. Rugh, with enthusiasm; their new
acquaintance, Mr. von Myendorff, with cordiality.

Freshmen barked, hooted and meowed, counted
bricks, delivered orations and vocal solos, dressed
incongruously, hunted unobtainable objects, rode
coaster wagons and roller skates, offered cakes,
candy and cigarettes, for a full week; were initiated
into various. fraternities.

Alumni held annual meetings at New Orleans,
Lynchburg and Roanoke in celebration of Washing-
ton’s birthday.

Again students assembled at the gymnasium, again
they wished for better auditorium acoustics to better
hear Dr. F. B. Robinson, president of the College of
the City of New York, define with eloquent sim-
plicity the educated man.

Twenty-four Southern High and Prep schools
sent their basketball teams to the Doremus Gym-
nasium to vie with each other for the Southern
Prep school championship. Playing five games in
three days the Staunton Military Academy emerged
victorious in all to win the tournament.

Spring followed a mild winter. Candidates for
football, baseball and track teams reported at Wilson
Field, viewed the nearly completed Class ’27-’31
Foot Bridge longingly.

—<———

GEORGE WEST DIEHL, 713, D.D., President
of the Concord State College, is one of the youngest
college presidents in the country, having finished W.
and L. in ’13 and Union Seminary in ’16. The Con-
cord college is co-educational and has increased in the
past three years from an enrollment of over a hun-
dred to over three hundred since Dr. Diehl has been
the executive. It is one of the State Teachers Col-
leges of West Virginia.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MEETING OF W. & L. TRUSTEES

The election of Newton D. Baker, former Secre- .

tary of War in the Wilson administration, as trustee
and the setting of commencement as June 5, were
the two important actions taken by the Washington
and Lee board of trustees at their annual meeting
in Lexington. Mr. Baker succeeds the late Frank
T. Glasgow.

George W. St. Clair, of ‘Tazewell, was elected
rector of the University to succeed the late Lucian
H. Cocke.

Other action taken by the board was the appoint-
ment of the Rev. W. W. Morton to the professor-
ship of moral philosophy and Bible to succeed the
late Dr. Howerton. The resignation of Dr. B. A.
Wooten, professor of physics, who will go to the
University of Alabama, was accepted. Dr. Wooten
succeeded the late Dr. Walter LeConte Stevens.

The appointment of Dr. Reid White as University
physician to succeed the late Dr. Glasgow was ap-
proved by the board.

The trustees formally tendered their thanks to
the members of the Alumni Association and other
friends of the University who bore the expense of
refitting and finishing the McLaughlin building as
the new Alumni club rooms.

The following members were present: G. W. St.
Clair, William A. Anderson, W. McC. White, Har-
rington Waddell, H. B. Sproul, Charles J. Mc-
Dermott, and James R. Caskie. Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, president, and Paul M. Penick, secretary,
also attended the meeting.

 

FOUNDERS DAY PROGRAM

Seniors, Faculty and ‘Trustees marched in aca-
demic procession to the Doremus gymnasium. Stu-
dents assembled, stood while Rev. Dr. W. McC.
White, 87, prayed; led by the student orchestra,
they sang “America.”

President Henry Louis Smith announced the
formal opening of the Lee Memorial Museum in
the basement of the Lee Chapel, that an informal
reception would be held in the museum rooms in
the afternoon. He reviewed the events of the year,
outlined progress and changes made, paid fitting
tribute to the memory of late Trustees F. IT. Glas-
gow, ’74, and Lucian H. Cocke, ’78, of Dr. Robert
Glasgow, ’75, late University Physician, of Dr. W.
LeConte Stevens, late professor emeritus of Physics,
announced the appointment of Dr. Reid White, ’87,
as University Physician, introduced the speaker of
the day, Judge Charles J. McDermott of New York
City, trustee, recalled Judge McDermott’s previous

appearance as a speaker in the Doremus gymnasium
at the dedication of the building twelve years ago.

Speaking of the Washington and Lee campus
Judge McDermott called attention to the inspira-
tional influences, their practical applications, to the
value of courtesy to strangers, to the vigil at the
Lee tomb. He applied the same points to the affairs
of the world at large, cautioned against destructive
influences, plead for national leadership of the Lee
type, specified the character of General Lee for in-
dividual and world-wide emulation. Students were
charmed by the measured cadence of the speaker’s
delivery, with the simplicity of the fundamental
truths delineated; applauded with unstinted appreci-
ation.

Ce EEE

HON. NEWTON D. BAKER, ’94, ACCEPTS
POSITION ON BOARD OF TRUSTEES

Hon. Newton D. Baker, nationally famous figure
in United States politics and an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee, has recently accepted a position on
the Board of Trustees. He was unanimously elected
to the trusteeship at the last meeting of the Board,
January 19, Founders’ Day. Mr. Baker was imme-

_ diately notified of his election by the president and

after some deliberation and correspondence, accepted
on February 16.

As a potential possibility for the presidency, Pres-
ident Smith makes the following statement with re-
gard to Mr. Baker’s ability. “In clear-minded,
broad-visioned, brain power, he stands among the
greatest Secretaries of War that have ever held of-
fice, and his conduct during the World War was
marked by daring originality and a contagious lead-
ership with Woodrow Wilson as his ardent ally and
supporter that swept the whole nation with him.”

In President Smith’s opinion he is “the best fitted
Democrat in the whole United States to sit in the
presidential chair and direct the destinies of the na-
tion during this perplexing period of world leader-
ship and international perplexity.”

He was born at Martinsburg, West Virginia, in
1871, and received his A. B. degree from Johns
Hopkins University in 1892.

He received his LL. B. at Washington and Lee in
1894. He is a member of the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity. He is now living in Cleveland, Ohio,
where he is the head of the Baker, Hostetler and
Sidlow law firm in that city. He was mayor of

Cleveland from 1912 until 1916, when President
Wilson appointed him Secretary of War. He served
through the entire World War period and until
1921.—From the Ring-Tum Phi.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

Finals—1928

Commencement this year ‘offers many features of
interest to the returning alumnus. The class ’27-’31
athletic field footbridge will be dedicated, the usual
alumni meeting and luncheon held, the annual crew
race rowed, the Faculty reception and the Senior-
Alumni Ball given on Alumni Day, Monday June 4th.
As an added feature a baseball game between the Var-
sity teams of W. & L. and the U; of Va. has been
scheduled for the afternoon.

Chronologically the program opens with the In-
terfraternity dance in the gym on Friday, June Ist at
9 P. M.; continues as usual with the Pan-White Friar
dansant at 11 A. M. Saturday morning; the registra-
tion and informal entertainment of alumni at the
Alumni Building; the boat race between the secondary
crews on North River in the afternoon and the Sigma
German at the gym in the evening

Dr. Peter Ainslie, pastor of the Christian Temple,
Baltimore, able preacher, famed progressive, noted au-
thority on International Church union and World AI-
liance, who was prevented by illness from fulfilling
an engagement here for Commencement in 1925, will
preach the Baccalaureate sermon in the Lee Chapel
Sunday, june 3rd, at. 11 A. M,

Presided over by Judge E. C. Caffrey, ’09, presi-
dent of the W. & L. Alumni Association, Inc., the
annual meeting of the corporation will be held at the
Alumni Building at 10:30 A. M., Monday, June 4th,
will be adjourned for the dedication of the Class
Memorial Footbridge at noon; dedication address by
Thomas M. Glasgow, ’12 and ’16, of Charlotte, N.
C.; response by E. H. Miller, president of the stu-
dent body. Following the dedication exercises will

be a buffet luncheon to alumni, Faculty and_ their

families in the Gymnasium portico, the W. & L,.-Va.
game across the new bridge on Wilson field at 3 P.
M., the annual Harry Lee-Albert Sidney boat crew
race on North River at 6 P. M., the formal Presi-
dent’s reception to alumni and visitors at 9 P. M.;
the Senior-Alumni Ball at 10 P. M.

Trustees, Faculty and graduating Seniors will
march in formal array into the Lee Chapel at 10:45
A. M. Tuesday, June 5th, to hear President Henry
Louis Smith review the year, jear Ur. john. H.
Latané, former professor of History at Washington
and Lee, now professor of History and Dean of Col-
lege Faculty at Johns Hopkins University, famed au-
thority on International Law and American History,
deliver the Commencement address. The Final Ball
lasting through the night will ring down the curtain
on the college year.

Marked by the dedication of the ’27-’31 Bridge and
by the Virginia baseball game, particularly favored
in the choice of speakers, Glasgow, Latané and Ain-
slie, presided over by able, popular Senior student

 

Dr. PETER AINSLIE
“Illness prevented . . . . im 1925”

 

 

Robert F. Howe, the finals of 1928 should attract
many alumni back to the campus.

Finays ProcraM.
Friday, June 1.—9 P. M. Inter-Fraternity dance.

Saturday, June 2—11 A. M. Pan-White Friar
dance; 4 P. M. Open house, registration of alumni,
Alumni Building; 6 P. M. Third and Second crew
boat races, North River; 9 P. M. Sigma German.

Sunday, June 3—11 A. M. Baccalaureate sermon,
Lee Chapel, Rev. Peter Ainslie, D. D.

Auumnti Day.

Monday, June 4.—10:30 A. M. Business meeting
of Alumni Assn., Inc., Alumni Building; 12 M. Dedi-
cation, Class ’27-’31 Bridge; address Thos. M. Glas-
gow; 1 P. M. Buffet luncheon, Gymnasium portico; 2
P. M. Alumni class reunions; Alumni Bldg.; Classes
Tee il, 12 and of “YO, Gl, 92, 93738 P.M. WwW.
& L—U. Va. baseball game, Wilson field; 6 P. M.
First crew boat race, North River; 9 P. M. Presi-
dent’s reception to graduates, trustees, alumni and
parents; 10 P. M. Senior-Alumni Ball.

Tuesday, June 5—Final Day—10:45 A. M. Pro-
cession: ‘Trustees, Faculty and Graduates; 11 A. M.
Commencement exercises, Lee Chapel; Address: Dr.
John H. Latané, Dean of Johns Hopkins University ;
it. M. Final Ball.

8 — THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

With the Faculty

CoacuH FLETCHER HoNoRED

Coach Forest Fletcher, head
of Washington and Lee athletics
and coach of the track and field
events division, had another
honor added to his already
lengthy list, when he was recently
appointed to the Boxing Rules
Committee of the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association for
1928. This is a distinct honor
for Mr. Fletcher, as he is the
regional representative of the
South on the committee.

Besides being on the National Committee, Coach
Fletcher has for the past three years been on the Box-
ing and Wrestling Committee of the Southern Inter-
collegiate Conference. At the S. I. C. meeting in
Lexington, Kentucky, last month he was named as
one of the two Southern representatives on the
Olympic Committee.

 

“Again honored”

Dr. JAMES L. Howe

The New Year found Dr. James Lewis Howe, pro-
fessor of Chemistry at W. and L,., at the peak of an
active career. He is active in the Presbyterian
church, in missions; active in Kiwanis, in civic better-
ment; active in Chemistry, in the study of the plati-
num group.

While students were boning over mid-year exams,
Dr: Howe attended the district convention of the K1-
wanis Club, visited Baltimore and Washington, was
the guest of the Masonic Grand Lodge at Richmond,
the guest of honor at the Hampton Rhodes Chemical
Club at Norfolk, where he spoke on “The Amenities
of Platinum,” was the guest of Lewis A. McMurran,
08, at Newport News. 2

Later at Lexington Dr. Howe received Dr.
Shin’ichi Ayoma of Tohnku Imperial University, Ja-
pan, whose researches have led him from Dansig,
Leyden, and Copenhagen to Lexington. Again the
subject was the platinum group of elements on which
subject Dr. Howe is an international authority.

PROFESSOR JOHN GRAHAM, 712, ILL,

John Graham, associate professor of Romance
Languages, suffered a nervous breakdown at the
close of the mid-year examinations. He was given a
short leave of absence in which to recuperate. Rest-
ing at Long Island he is reported to be improving
rapidly and is expected to resume his class work at an
early date.

Dr. W. M. Brown, °14, ELEcTED PRESIDENT OF
ASSOCIATION OF VIRGINIA COLLEGES

Dr. William M. Brown, 714, head of the depart-
ment of Psychology and Education, was elected presi-
dent of the Association of Virginia Colleges for the
year 1928-29, at the meeting of the association, Feb-
ruary 10-11 at Richmond. President Charles J.
Smith of Roanoke College, was elected vice-president
and Dean William T. Hodges, College of William
and Mary, was re-elected secretary-treasurer.

Dr. Brown addressed the meeting Saturday morn-
ing. His subject was ‘‘Vocational Guidance on the
College Level.” In stressing the need of vocational
guidance in colleges, Dr. Brown used statistics which
he has gathered for the past several years at Wash-
ington and Lee. Speaking of the situation at W. and
L. he said: “Records of 1569 men who entered col-
lege during the years 1920-1924 inclusive, show that
75 per cent made some choice before or during their
college careers; 25 per cent made no choice whatever
up to the time of their leaving college; and some
wrote down undecided for two, three and four years
in succession.

Dr. Brown next commented on the surprising
changes in choices. Law was favored by a majority
of the students, business careers coming second.
Concerning the losses by withdrawal or failure of
courses, it was found that, for the great part, they

had hazy ideas of the future, and although they va-

ried from the highest to the lowest, the majority were
of an inferior degree of intelligence.

Dr. Brown said that W. and L. was the only Vir-
ginia university with a real program toward voca-
tional guidance; that Wellesley, Smith, Syracuse,
Stanford, Rutgers and others had elaborate move-
ments in that direction. The difficulty in furthering
the guidance is due, he said “to faculty apathy, the
large expense incurred, student indifference, lack of
time of the faculty, and lack of experience.”

Dr. Brown ReEtTuRNS FROM NoRTHERN ‘TRIP

Dr. William M. Brown, head of the Department of
Psychology, returned recently from a trip through
the north where he visited Harvard and Yale, at-
tended the meeting of the National Educational Asso-
ciation in Boston, and took part in the semi-annual
meeting of the O. D. K. General Council held at the
University of Pittsburgh.

While at Yale Dr. Brown became especially inter-
ested in their vocational advisory bureau. He studied
several of its best features with a view to adopting
them for vocational guidance work on this campus.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE . 9

PROFESSOR FLOURNOY DELIVERED Ap-
DRESS AT FARMVILLE.

Professor Fitzgerald Flournoy, of the English De-
partment at Washington and Lee, delivered the
Founder’s day address at the State Teachers’ College
at Farmville, Virginia, on Saturday evening, March
10, at 8 P. M. Mr. Flournoy’s subject was “The
Part of the Educated Woman of the South in Re-
building the Culture of the South.”

Professor Watson Selvage, graduate of Dartmouth
College, was the only new addition to the faculty for
the second semester. He entered the Psychology de-
partment of which Dr. William Brown is head. He
was formerly on the faculty of Marshall College,
Huntington, West Virginia. After his graduation
from Dartmouth, Professor Selvage did some of his
preparatory work in England and traveled exten-
sively.

Professors C. FE. Williams and Charles D. Light,
members of the Law faculty, represented Washing-
ton and Lee at a meeting of the Association of Ameri-
can Law schools which was held in Chicago, Illinois,
during the holidays.

Dr. Franklin L. Riley, professor. of history at
Washington and Lee University, is one of fifty-six
eminent educators selected to serve as visiting pro-
fessors at the University of Southern California dur-
ing the 1928 Summer Session (June to August).

Professor W. T. Lyle, as Dean of the school of
Engineering, at Washington and Lee, attended the
annual meeting of the American Society of Civil En-
gineers recently held in New York City.

 

CAMPUS ROADS TO BE REPAIRED IN
SUMMER

Extensive repairs will be made to the University
roads this summer, according to Paul M. Penick, ’96,
treasurer. The $5,000 appropriation which the Uni-
versity received sometime ago will be used to accom-
plish as much as possible in rebuilding the roads on
the campus, and repainting some of the buildings.

The road from Washington Street, which runs be-
tween Graham and Lee’s dormitories will be paved.
It is also planned to reopen the road which leads from
the Memorial gateway through the campus to the h-
brary. This road has been closed for the past two
years.

Among the buildings to be repainted are Newcomb
Hall and Reid Hall.

 

Dr. W. R.. Dregey, 10
“Back to Physics”

 

 

DR. W. R. DICKEY, ’10, CHOSEN PHYSICS
DEPARTMENT HEAD

At a meeting of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Trustees of the University, held February
28, Dr. William Robert Dickey was appointed head
of the Physics Department, beginning with the ses-
sion of 1928-29.

Dr. Dickey will take the place of Dr. Benjamin AI-
len Wooten, who recently resigned, his resignation
going into effect at the close of this semester. Mr.
Robert G. McDorman was appointed as Dr. Dickey’s
assistant.

SUN RUNS ETCHING OF WASHINGTON
COLLEGE

A half page etching showing the main building
and the campus of Washington and Lee appeared in
the magazine section of the Baltimore Sun, Sunday,
February 19th. It was used-to illustrate a feature
story entitled, “The Estate of George Washington.”

This article shows that Washington was a man
far in advance of his time, as proven by his “re-
markable” will in which he anticipates the coming
of the modern trust company.

10 ; THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DR. F. B. ROBINSON SPEAKS TO
STUDENTS

Students straggled into the gymnasium, Tuesday,
February 25th. Composed the student body of
Washington and Lee University in compulsory as-
sembly. The speaker was Dr. Frederick B. Robin-
son, president of the College of the City of New
York; his subject, “The Educated Man.”

Speaking in an easy conversational style, Dr.
Robinson sketched the growth of life’s intellectual
relationships from the days of Abraham, touched
upon their complexity today; applied the advantages
of real education to the culture and refinement of
society at large and to the ability of the individual.
He stated that mental capacity and intellectual abil-
ity varied in individuals, that the object of education
was to lift the individual to the height of his capac-
ity and ability, however limited that might be. He
defined the educated man, stated that in him lies the
hope of a better world. .

Students were impressed by the speaker’s intel-
lectual simplicity, facility of speech, gracious man-
ner, easy style.

ed

STITT WILSON AT ASSEMBLY

J. Stitt Wilson eminent social and educational
speaker addressed the student body at an assembly on
March 12 on “Modern Science and Philosophy.”

Mr. Wilson is a prophet of the new social order
and a sponsor of a new educational life that will pro-
duce men and women of dynamic Christian personali-
ties. He was for several years with the British labor
movement, realizing labor’s need for leadership. He
is stimulating, critical, and at the same time construc-
tive and scientific. He has addressed over two hun-
dred colleges and universities in America in the past
few years.

ND

THREE VISITING SPEAKERS RECEIVE
HIGH PRAISE AT W. & L.

Dr. Akagi, Baron von Meyerdorf, and Arthur
Rugh, the three visiting speakers at a recent Univer-
sity assembly, were well received by the audience at
Washington and Lee. Their talks in various parts
of the University were heard with much enthusiasm.
Their visit to Lexington as one stop in an extensive
speaking tour, was made pleasant by entertainment
at several fraternity houses.

Dr. Akagi took a meal in the Sigma Phi Epsilon,
Phi Delta Theta and Arcades houses. He came di-
rectly here from New York where he is serving in
the capacity of Secretary of the Japanese Student
Christian Association in the United States, an or-
ganization of 1500 students.

RUSSIA AND CHINA DISCUSSED AT
STUDENT ASSEMBLY

Intricate psychological problems of Russia and
China and their bearings on international relations
with the United States were visualized for Wash-
ington and Lee students at the student body as-
sembly on February 13th by Arthur Rugh, student
secretary of China’s Y. M. C. A., and Alexander
von Meyendorf, aristocrat and refugee of Russia.

Mr. Rugh dramatized the Chinese situation as of
a country torn between militarism, bolshevism and
Christianity, with the fate of a fourth of the world’s
population lying in the balance. ‘The Soviet regime
has earned its place in China,’ he declared, “be-
cause it is the only country which has given up its
seized lands and unfair rights. Until recently the
Chinese have considered America a friendly power,
but since the landing of marines and the interven-
tion of warships, China asks, “Has America’s heart
changed ?” :

The idea that China is an inert, defenseless mass,
Mr. Rugh characterized as “inherited psychology,
not justified by facts.” He hinted at the danger an
armed China allied with either Japan or Russia as
a real menace if China is not able to receive aid from
her old friend, the United States.

“The present Russian situation is a result of the
forces of ignorance, violence and intellectual im-
agination”, Baron von Meyendorf asserted. |

Baron von Meyendorf warmly praised the Amer-
ican spirit of practical application in contrasting
with the older imaginative tendencies of Europe.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president of W. & L,, in
welcoming the speakers, criticized the present mili-
taristic jingoism in American legislative chambers.

 

MANY TOURISTS VISIT CHAPEL
CHRISTMAS

The Lee Memorial Chapel was kept open during
the Christmas holidays at the regular hours and as.
a consequence a rather large number of tourists
availed themselves of the privilege thus granted.
Two hundred and twenty-seven people visited ’ the
chapel during the vacation, and five hundred and
fifty-two were there during the month of December.

A. H. Boyden of Salisbury, N. C., who was one
of General Lee’s couriers, was a visitor at the chapel
last month. After viewing the statue of Lee and his
office, Mr. Boyden told of his memories of Lee and
some instances of his courage and gentleness during
the war.

 

STOCKTON TURNBULL, ’05, of New York,

was a recent visitor to Lexington.

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

BASKETBALL IN RETROSPECT

A wealth of cage material reported to Coach Smith
to compete for places on the Varsity five. They were
still competing at the end of the season.

Pivoting around Captain Babe Spotts at center,
White, Lowry, Ebert and Eaglebach, forwards and
Joynes, Howe, Groop, Wood and Gordon, guards, al-
ternated in the remaining four positions in an effort
to form a consistently effective combination.

Preliminary engagements were lost to Maryland,
Catholic University and the Navy, were won from
Bridgewater and William and Mary. Maryland
scored their second victory over the Generals who
came back to win from V. P. I. and to lose by a one
point margin to the University of Alabama. On the
western trip Kentucky nosed out a victory and the
University of West Virginia emerged with a one
point advantage. A fast quint from Duke dazzled
the Blue and White team with an easy win, but V. P.
I. was again defeated. ‘Two games were dropped to
North Carolina State and the University of South
Carolina, respectively, and a win registered against
Sewanee. In the final home game Virginia barely se-
cured a victory after a thrilling, hard fought contest.

At the Southern Conference tournament the team lost

in the preliminaries to Miss. A. and M.

Notable were the games played against the Univer-
sity of Alabama, the University of West Virginia and
the University of Virginia. Notable was the per-
formance of Captain Babe Spotts in conspicuous
flashes throughout the season, the consistent stellar
performance of one Ernie Wood, sophomore guard,
the excellent floor work of the entire team against
Virginia.

VARSITY FROSH TANKMEN LOSE AND

WIN, 31-28

The Varsity Swimming team met its first defeat of
the season in a closely contested dual meet with the
University of Virginia recently. The little Generals
succeeded in balancing the scales by nosing out their
freshman opponents 31-28,. the exact score of the
Varsity meet. ’

The Cavalier swimmers showed a superiority in
the distance events while the Generals were able to
take first places in almost all of the dashes. The
Washington and Lee divers, on whom Coach Twom-
bly had been able to depend in former meets, were
unable to run up their average score, being handi-
capped by the great difference between the standard
board and that in the Virginia pool.

Captain Moffett was high point man for the varsity
finishing first in both the 100 yard back stroke and
100 yard free style. Burns accounted for ten of the
freshmen teams score, taking first place in the 50 and
100 yard swims.

BASEBALL PRELIMINARIES

The Doremus Gymnasium gave way to Wilson
Field as gray winter gave way to gay spring. Grid-
iron hopefuls “hit the dirt,” track aspirants limbered
up, Diamond candidates cavorted.

Baseball will be the first to emerge on the calendar
of outdoor sports, thus preliminary training has
started in earnest. Present will be Spotts, first base;
Eaglebach, third base; Tips and Jones, catchers ; Fol-

‘ liard, (Capt.) pitcher; Lowden and Hickman, out-

fielders. Missing will be Stearns and Gwaltney, out-
fielders; Palmer, second base; Rauber, ss; Maben,
pitcher.

Coaches Dick Smith and Cy Twombly have a mis-
cellaneous array of last year’s freshmen and subs
from which to secure two first string pitchers, a var-
sity second baseman, a short stop and a stellar out-
fielder or two. :

This season marks the inauguration of the South
Atlantic Intercollegiate Baseball League. Therefore,
most of the games scheduled are with the members of
this League. Non-League games listed in the follow-
ing schedule are indicated by an asterisk.

BASEBALL SCHEDULE

*Catholic University at W. and L., March 30.

*Cornell University at W. and L., April 2.

*Duke University at W. and L., April 4.

*Duke University at W. and L., April 5.

aN and L. at N. C. State, April 6.

Wand L. at U. of N. C,, April 7.

*Richmond University at W. and L., April 9.

University of North Carolina at W. and L., April
12.

W. and L. at V. P. I., April 16.

University of Virginia at W. and L., April 21.

W. and L. at Maryland, April 28.

N. C. State at W. and L., May 3.

*U. S. Marines at W. and L., May 4.

*William and Mary at W. and L., May 8.

V. P. 1. at W. and L., May 11.

W. and L. at University of Virginia, May 19.

*Not League games.

ED

IN THE RING

Trained by a_ special boxing Coach for the first
time the General mitmen opened their season against
the University of Virginia only to lose to a better con-
ditioned and more seasoned team. Good form and
scientific training was betrayed by the lack of stamina.

Came examinations and the report that boxers were
breaking training. Came the order to cancel the box-
ing schedule from the Athletic Association. Came
the deflation of boxing hopes and hopefuls.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

SPOTTS GIVES HIS VOTE TO HOLLY-
WOOD, CALIFORNIA, AND TO

THE SCREEN STARS

California is all right, according to “Babe” Spotts,
brilliant Washington and Lee end who played with
the All-Southern football team in the Los Angeles
game, December 26. It seems that Hollywood, the
center of the motion picture world, is not quite so far
away from Los Angeles as Kalamazoo and that the
screen stars don’t exactly hate football players. It is
also a fact that the football team didn’t spend all its
time on the coast trying to make first downs.

The team stayed in Los Angeles on the morning of
its arrival just long enough to drop their suitcases and
was Hollywood bound before the boys could catch
their breath. The First National Studio was the site
of first entertainment. Here the members of the
team met Laura La Plante, Colleen Moore, Patsy
Ruth Miller, Milton Sills, Lew Cody, and a host of
other screen luminaries. Each southerner had his
picture taken with a movie actress and “Babe” posed
with Colleen Moore.

On the afternoon of December 26, the men from
Dixie demonstrated that they could do something else
besides running around with movie stars and they ran
all over the picked team from the Pacific Coast to the
tune of 8 to 0. In the second quarter Spotts replaced
Crowley of Georgia Tech at left end and saw about
ten minutes of action. In the fourth quarter, Spotts
again got into the game, this time on the right flank
and finished the game in this position.

The grand finale of the trip was a theatre party
given by Leatrice Joy, followed by a dance which
lasted into the wee small hours of the morning. On
this occasion there was also a number of movie folk

present. Dates were arranged for each visitor with a

prominent actress and Spotts was Patsy Ruth Miller’s
escort for the evening —(From Ring-tum Phi.)

— ee

SPRING FOOTBALL STARTS

Coach “Pat’? Hearon motored through heavy Penn-
sylvania snows, arrived at Lexington Sunday even-
ing, March 4th, met next season’s football aspirants at
the Gym Monday, started them on a stiff preliminary
practice season of five weeks duration.

Freshmen with a good yearling showing’ started on
the second leg of their journey toward varsity berths,
aspired to fill the vacancies created by the loss of
Dorsey, Spotts and Eaglebach, ends; Tips, guard;
Fisher, tackle; Latham, center; Howe and Barclay,
halfbacks; Stearns, quarter. Altogether about fifty
candidates have reported for spring training includ-
ing many substitutes and a few varsity letter men
from last year’s squad headed by Captain Fitzpatrick.

TRACK BEGINS

Candidates for freshman and varsity track teams
reported to Coach Fletcher for their first workout on
Monday afternoon, March 5. With seven letter men
and a number of last year’s reserves and freshmen,
Coach Fletcher has an excellent nucleus around which
to mold his 1928 team.

Captain “Pete” Reardon will be on hand to look
after the high hurdles, javelin, and broad jump. Sim-
mons will again train for the quarter mile and Backus
and Sutton will run the 880. Nance and Butler are
veterans in the two mile, while Patterson and Sproul
saw service last session in the hurdles. Fisher, in the
discus is the only weight man who will again be eli-
gible.

From last season’s scrubs and freshmen, Sandifer,
Grashorn, and McFarland will make bids for the
dashes and jumps. Platt and Hutchinson will try
their luck in the middle distance events. Graves,
Brock, and Bailey in the mile and Doorman in the
hurdles complete the list of experienced men who will
try for the field events. Pomeroy and Cocke will
train for the pole vault, while Eberhardt will make
somebody step for a job in the dashes and broad

- jump. Schmitt, Jacobs, Painter, Merrit and Groop

will compete for places in the weight events, with
Janney, Martin, and Fangboner trying for the javelin
throw.

eT

PREP BASKETBALL TOURNAMENT

The fifth annual South Atlantic Prep and High
School basketball tournament was staged at Wash-
ington and Lee in the Doremus Gymnasium, March
1-3, under the auspices of the W. and L. Athletic As-
sociation and the direction of R. A. Smith, graduate
manager of Athletics. :

Twenty-four teams from Maryland, Virginia and
North Carolina were entered. ‘Twelve teams were
eliminated in their first encounters. Oak Ridge In-
stitute (N. C.), coached by A. C. Cummings, ’23,
winners of the 1926 tournament lost by a narrow and
questionable margin to the Staunton Military Acad-
emy five; Augusta Military Academy lost to John
Marshall High; Bristol High lost to Bingham (N.
Co

S. M. A. won again over John Marshall (tourna-
ment winners 1927), in the semi-finals, met Bingham
in the finals, scored a smashing victory to win the
tournament for the second time in five years.

At the opening of the tournament the visiting
coaches were entertained by the W. and L. Athletic
Association at an informal smoker in the Alumni
Building.

 

 

“a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 13

~ Lynchburg Alumni Association Meeting

The Lynchburg Alumni Association held their ban-
quet on February 22nd at the Virginia Hotel, at 6:30.
Dr. Mosby Perrow, president, being absent on ac-
count of illness in the family, Bob Ramsey, vice-
president, presided.

Thirty High School seniors, most of whom will
enter some college next fall, were guests of honor;
also a portion of the High School Orchestra, which
furnished music during the evening. Cornelius M.
Roberts, 94, was chairman of the banquet committee.

The speaker of the evening was Dr. L. J. Desha,
'06, professor of Chemistry of Washington and Lee,
wlio spoke on. “W: & 1... Past and Preceat - The
response to this splendid talk was made by Colonel
Aubrey FE. Strode, 92. Other alumni present were
called on for short addresses, including Jimmie
Caskie, 06, member of the Board of Trustees of the
University, James T. Noell, 90, and one of our
honorary members, Dr. A. L. Wilson, who, while not
an alumnus of the University himself, is the son of
Wm. L. Wilson, former President of the University,
and whose own son is a graduate of Washington and

Lee.

A short business session was held, and the follow-
ing officers were elected for the ensuing year: Presi-
dent, Robt. D. Ramsey, °14; vice-President, David
M. Barclay, 98; Secretary, A. L. Burger, 02. The
meeting adjourned with all present joining in “The
Swing.”

Alumni present were: Richard H. Anderson, ’10;
D. M. Barclay, 98; H. S. Bryant, ’20; A. L. Burger,
02; Charles E. Burke, 710; Harry Baumgardner, ’11;
James R. Caskie, 06; J. S. Caskie, ’24; Gilmer G.
Craddock, 710; L. T. Davis, 14; Thomas W. Gilliam,
"19: Carter Glass; Jr., “13;. Premry = (ass, (15;
Powell Glass, ’07; Robert C. Glass, ’07; Claiborne
W. Gooch, Jr., 715; Reid E. Graves, ’24; $. Garland
Hamner, ’98; Thomas S. Kirkpatrick, ’13; Frederick
W. McWane, 713; P. R. Massie, 04; James H. Noel,
00; Dr. S. E. Oglesby, ’15; Cornelius M. Roberts,
‘04> RD. Ramsey, “14; Bay Sa oe, W. T.
Spencer, Jr., ’24; Aubrey E. Strode, 92; C. B. Wilt-
shire, 13; R. C. Wood, ’21; T. Gipson Woodson, 717;
and Dr. A. L. Wilson.

Speaking at Louisville and Lynchburg, Dr. Desha
outlined the recent progress of the University, told of
the new Chemistry Building, of the Class °’27-’31
Memorial Bridge, of improvements to be made on
the campus; pleased his hearers with an intimate and
newsy account of current University affairs. W. &
L. graduate of ’06, Ph. D. from John’s Hopkins,
Professor of Chemistry at the University of Ten-
nessee, Captain U. S. Army over-seas, Professor of

 

Dr. L. J. Desa, 06

“__4 most pleasing impression upon all”

 

 

Chemistry at Washington and Lee, popular, active
Faculty director of student social affairs, Dr. Desha
spoke with an ample background of knowledge, ex-
perience and intimate Washington and Lee relation-
ship.

LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY, ALUMNI
DINNER

The annual dinner of the Louisville Alumni As-
sociation was held on Founder’s Day, January 19th,
at the Kentucky Hotel at 6:30 P. M. There were
twenty-five alumni present and a number of the
parents of the boys now in school. A larger attend-
ance was expected but a great number of the men
were sick and several were out of town.

Very interesting talks were given by Judge
Thomas R. Gordon, ’72, on ‘Traditions of General
Lee,’ and by Hugh B. Fleece, on “Why I Sent My
Son to Washington and Lee.’ The principal ad-
dress by Dr. L. J. Desha on “Things Current at the
University” was greatly enjoyed by all present, and
Dr. Desha himself made a most pleasing impression
upon all who met him.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LOUISIANA ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
DINNER

FEBRUARY 22

The worst day in the year in New Orleans saw
the very best annual meeting of the Louisiana
Alumni Association for many a year. ‘Two splen-
did addresses on Washington, whose birthday an-
niversary was being celebrated, enthusiastic talks in
praise of old W. & L. by three fathers of boys now
in college from New Orleans, a letter from  Presi-
dent Smith thanking the Association for sending
such a fine scholarship boy, and one from Herbert
Jahncke himself expressing his gratitude and_ his
love for the old college, were features. Many
alumni were also inspired to reminiscence, among
them Major T. J. Bartlette, who talked interestingly
on General Lee, who was president in his time, Cap-
tain Ht. H. Harvey and Lazu Block, of the ’70’s, and
a number of the younger fellows.

Mr. E. A. Parsons told of the Bi-centenary being
planned for Washington in 1932, and the Associa-
tion pledged its assistance. Dr. J. E. Winston, of
Newcomb College, painted the picture of the real
Washington, not a demi-god but a_ red-blooded
young Colonial of unimpeachable integrity and mas-
terful leadership.

Dr. H. M. Blain, under protest, was re-elected
president of the Association, Dean Douglas Ander-
son was made vice-president, and Norton Wisdom
secretary. Those present were: Rev. W. McF.
Alexander, ’84, Douglas Anderson, ’90, 'T. J. Bart-
lette, °/1, Lazu Block, ’74, J. M. Boyd, ’26, W. K.
Gladney, ‘25, H. H. Harvey, ’76, R. E. Milling, Jr.,
"19, Dr. L. von Meysenbug, 713, B. Palmer Orr, ’20,
W. F. Smith, ’26, Norton Wisdom, ’27, W. B. Wis-
dom, ’21, H. M. Blain, 94, A. M. Cromwell, 17, T.
Butler, °12, J. Mudd, ’27. The guests were Archie

M. Smith, Walter Jahncke, and O. B. Webb, all

prominent business men of New Orleans.

 

VISITORS TO LEE CHAPEL DECREASE
IN FEBRUARY

There were four hundred and ninety-three visitors
to Lee Chapel during the month of February, ex-
cluding the last day’s entries. This number shows
a large decrease compared with February of last
year, when eight hundred and eight people were
listed as having been ushered through the chapel.

Dr. Frederick B. Robinson, of New York, was
one of the distinguished visitors registered this
month. !

Practically every state in the union, besides three
foreign countries, were listed. One Englishman,
two Japanese and one Chinese were visitors.

NEW YORK MONTHLY LUNCHEONS

The monthly luncheon of the New York Alumni
Association, held at the Planters Restaurant, New
York City, on February Ist, was unusually well at-
tended. This was the first meeting held down town
this season. They had a private room with a couple
of fire places which added to the sociability. Sev-
eral of those who came out for the affair had never
before attended one of these meetings. Those
present were: Wm. R. Burton, 17; John Drye, Jr.,
23; George H. Wilson, ’23; H. D. St. John, ’25;
Lindsay R. Henry, 25; Henry H. McCorkle, 96;
Michael Brown, *11; E. W. Poindexter, ’23; Hugh
Rk. Hawthorne, 10; Harvey Eley, ’11; Henry W.
Dew, *11; Junius L. Powell, 714; Raymond Smith,
‘22; K. B. Manson, “23;,). R, Collins: 97; John |.
Hudak, ’23; Roy Grimley, ’21; W. M. Stevens, ’21:
Charles B. Wright, ’24; Geo. S. Mueller, °18; R.
Hence Young, ’20; James A. Lee, 17; E. G. Bar-
ker, 26; Earl W. Bibb, ’24; G. C. Walters, ’26;
Wm. A, Hyman, 12; EK. W. Lee; 913: Win, M.
Farrar, Jr., "16; and David Birch, ’26.

—

The first luncheon held by the New York City
Alumni Association this year was well attended.
The second, third and fourth were attended by
about 15 alumni each. All four meetings have been
held at the Fraternity Club. The fifth luncheon
was held on January 11th and was attended by the
following: Chas. T. Lile, 15, Henry H. McCorkle,
"96, James A. Lee, ’17, Roy J. Grimley, ’21, Earl W.
Bibb, ’24, G. S. Mueller, 18, E. W. Poindexter, ’23,
Chas. B. Wright, ’24, R. Hence Young, ’20, Chas.
Kupfer, 719, Henry Dew, ’11, W. R. Burton, ’17,
Theo. R. Hecker, ’26, and Jackson R. Collins, ’17.

Se

NATIONAL HIGHWAY WILL RUN
THROUGH LEXINGTON

The section of the coast-to-coast highway that runs
through Rockbridge county is being pushed to com-
pletion that the road may be opened this year.

Eight steam shovels and the use of day and night
shifts of laborers have helped much in the enterprise,
and the road-bed is almost ready for its macadam sur-
face. |

The new road extends from Newport News
through Lexington and Clifton Forge into West Vir-
ginia. From West Virginia it stretches away to the
Pacific coast. This new coast-to-coast routes crosses
the Lee Highway at Lexington. Lexington has thus
become the cross roads of two of the greatest high-
ways of the nation.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Lexington Alumni Dinner

Forty-four Lexington alumni and W. and L,. Fac-
ulty members met for dinner at the Alumni Build-
ing on Founders Day, January 19th. FE. P. Davis
presided.

Dean H. D. Campbell talked amusingly and in-
structively on the college bell, the early college build-
ings. (See page 17 for text of address. )

At the suggestion of Toastmaster E. P. Davis, the
guests stood for one minute in silent and impressive
tribute to the memory of General Robert E. Lee.

James R. Caskie, ’06, trustee, kindly substituting
upon short notice for Hon. John W. Davis who was
unable to attend, spoke upon the activity of the
alumni association, upon the relationship of alumni
and trustees, upon the responsibilities of trusteeship.
Speaking as an alumnus he deplored the subjection
of the University trustees to private and public criti-
cism and uncalled for advice after certain actions
had been taken, assured alumni of the keen respon-
sibility felt by the board and of their careful delib-
eration over vital matters. In closing Mr. Caskie
impersonated a visiting Australian author and
dramatist in a captivating humorous monologue.

President Henry Louis Smith complimented the
alumni association upon securing the Alumni Build-
ing.

After casting kind and complimentary bouquets at
the Alumni Secretary, alumni present voted to form
a permanent Rockbridge County Alumni Association.
FE. L. Graham, ’11, was elected president and Mat-
thew W. Paxton, Jr., ’18, secretary.

Those attending were: Harrington Waddell, ’97,
Ralph Daves, ’26, Bob Campbell, ’24, Chas. Glasgow,
09, Dr. Sam Glasgow, ’03, William M. McElwee,
79, Prank J. Gilliam, “17, Ro A, Sige t2, Mason
Deaver, 08, Laird Y. Thompson, ’24, Hale Houston,
‘O?, M.cW. Paxton, Jr.; 20, J, R. Cask 09, Eddie
Davis, 715, Dr. Reid White, ’87, V. E. Kemp, 719, E.
L, Graham, ’*11, John L. Campbell, “11, Stuart Moore,
15, Paul M. Penick, ’96, and Professors T. J. Far-
rar, “99, Robert H. Tucker, C. B. Watiams, 12, F.
L. Riley, E. F. Shannon, Wm. M. Brown, 715, B. D.
Easter, Wm. Coan, R. N. Latture, ’16, John Graham,
"14, RE Witt, “06; G. BD Hancock,  &. Paxton,
09, H..V. Shelley, George Irwin, ’20, Marcellus
Stowe, Howard Thompson, Ollinger Crenshaw, °26,
Gray Funkhouser, ’21, Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’21, Ra-
mon Johnson, and C. E. L. Gill, 718; Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, Dean H. D. Campbell and Registrar E. S.
Mattingly, °21.

Delightful musical selections were furnished in-
termittently by the Southern Collegians and the W.
and L. glee club octet.

 

J. R.. Caskig. 06

“—[mpersonated in Captivating Monologue”

 

 

REGISTRATION

Sixty students flunked out under the automatic
during the first term. Thirty-three were reinstated.

Eight hundred and seventy-five were registered
during the first semester. Thirty-four registered
during the opening of the second semester. ‘Total reg-
istration, nine hundred and nine. Seventy-five of
that number have dropped out.

ON THE MAT

Grapplers worked industriously, fasted and dieted
“to make the weights”, kept rigid training, only to
lose their matches to the Richmond “Y,” V. P. I., N.
C. State, Davidson, Duke, Princeton and Franklin-
Marshall, to win over the University of Virginia in
the one shining success of the season.

Withal the losing team offered good entertainment
in every contest for home onlookers, displayed dogged
determination and fighting spirit. Conspicuous was
the work of Gresham, Madison, Tully, Davis, Selig-
man and Hughes, the latter losing only two matches
during the season. |

 

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FANCY DRESS

Introduced by the Junior Prom. the student social
season achieved its usual colorful climax in the an-
nual Fancy Dress Ball. |

The Ball was inaugurated twenty-two years ago by
Miss Annie White, Librarian and official director of
student social activity. Upon Miss Annie’s retire-
ment six years ago Prof. C. E. L. Gill, ’22 directed
the event under the auspices of the Troubadours,
student dramatic and musical organization. Each
succeeding Ball has been staged under Prof. Gill’s
direction although it became a function led and
managed by students chosen for their positions in the
annual student body elections.

The themes for the Ball vary each year. This year
the general motif was “Book Land.’ ‘The ball room
was elaborately decorated accordingly. A huge book
shelf was set at one end of the gym. Living book
ends animated by the peal of a trumpet, stepped for-
ward to open the titled book-backs through which the
characters of the volume marched in representative
costumes. The Prince and Princess of the Ball oc-
cupied an elaborate throne, attended by the gentlemen
and ladies of court. They reviewed this colorful ar-
ray from the pages of classic fiction, applauded the
classic ballet interpretation of “The Storm” given by
semi-professional entertainers, took places and _ led
the procession through an elaborate figure fringed by
less favored but no less colorful participants, formed
the initials W. & L. Martial tones gave way to the
waltz, lights flickered, windmills turned, colored re-
flections from a thousand tiny mirrors played wis-
pishly over the room—Carl Gill had scored another
success.

Noticeable was the small number of visiting alumni
present, the orderly and dignified array of onlookers
in formal dress, the unsually attractive costuming, the
lighted cigarettes beneath inflammable draperies, the
jovial figure of the director richly miscast as a pirate.

Famed as a relic of the traditional South, as the
premier social event of the Southern and Eastern col-
legiate world, as the criterion for all other similar
functions, the Washington and Lee Fancy Dress Ball
remains unexploited, tho it exceeds the Mardi Gras
Balls in color, the Gasparilla dances in diginity and
the “June German” in patrician patronage.

 

INDOOR TRACK

The highlight of the indoor track season was the
indoor meet at the University of Richmond. The
Blue-White team only placed third in the meet but
won the all important relay event from the renowned
University of Virginia relay team in both freshman
and Varsity sections. Captain Pete Reardon also
placed first for the Generals in his events.

BRIDGE NEARS COMPLETION

Four graceful arches of re-enforced concrete sup-
port the magnificent new foot bridge which now
stretches like a white ribbon from the gymnasium to
Wilson athletic field. The bridge proper has been
completed. Contractors are now erecting the balus-
trades of gracefully turned concrete spindles which
border the ribbon-like walkway.

The elaborately designed approaches at each end
of the bridge were not to be constructed under the
original contract. However, the Bridge Committee
deemed it wise to go ahead and complete the entire
structure at once. University authorities agreed to
finance the additional work by loans to the Athletic
Association. Bids for the construction of these ap-
proaches are now being received. It is estimated that
the additional cost will be about $7,500.

Members of the 1926-27 student body pledged
something over $25,000 last spring for the purpose of
building the bridge. Additional pledges were re-
ceived from students this year to bring the total
pledged up to $30,000. Of that amount over $7,500
has been paid in. The bridge stands as a memorial
gift from the classes of ’27 through ’31.

Construction of the bridge span under the original
contract cost $31,000. Upon completion of the ap-
proaches the bridge will represent an expenditure of
$38,500. The financing has been under the direction
of a student committee—E. H. Miller, Chairman, W.
J. Dorsey, and R. W. Jordan, and an advisory com-
mittee consisting of R. A. Smith, °15, Chairman,
Prof. Hale Houston, 96, Coach Forest Fletcher and
V. E. Kemp, 720.

 

COACH HERRON PLAYED ON GREATEST
ELEVEN

Glenn S. “Pop” Warner, present head-coach at Le-
land-Stanford University, California, has announced
in a recent syndicated article that he regards the team
that he turned out at the University of Pittsburgh in
1916 as the greatest football team that ever played the
game. It was his second year at the Smoky City In-
stitution, and as he explains it: “In my first year, the
fall of 1915, we were unbeaten, but the next year we
won all of our games by large scores. Included in
the list of victories were the scalps of Syracuse,
Washington and Jefferson, Pennsylvania, Navy, and
State College.”

“Pat” Herron, one of football’s greatest ends is one
of that brilliant assemblage who is consistently gar-
nering fame in the coaching profession. He is now
head coach at Washington and Lee. Jimmie DeHart,
halfback deluxe of the ’16 aggregation preceded Her-
ron at W. and L. and is now head coach at Duke Uni-
versity.

 

%

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

The College Bell—And Other Anecdotes

(Address by Dean H. D. Campbell at the Founder's
Day Meeting of Lexington Alumni,
January 19, 1928.)

At the June meeting of the Board of Trustees of
Washington and Lee University in 1916 a_ by-law
was passed, designating and setting apart-the 1°th
day of January in each year, the anniversary of the
birth of Robert E. Lee as Founder’s Day, to be ob-
served annually forever with appropriate commemo-
ration exercises.

If it be not always and everywhere practicable for
the alumni to’ observe Founder’s Day on January
19th, I think it would be entirely within the spirit of
the by-law and in furtherance of its commemoration
objects for them to meet on February 22nd, the an-
niversary of the birth of George Washington, or on
the 19th day of December, the birthday of William
Graham, the first Rector of Liberty Hall Academy.

Inasmuch as I am the oldest alumnus, save one,
present on this occasion I want to speak of the age
of the college bell and of the central group of build-
ings, now called Washington College. This subject
was suggested by an item which was published in the
Ring-tum Phi January 8, 1928, as follows:

“The frame which has held in place the bell on
Washington College for one hundred and five years
supported its heavy charge for the last time when
some well-meaning persons rang out the old year
December 31. Before the New Year could be rung
in the aged wood gave way, and the bell settled with
a groan upon its splintered frame.”

If the frame on which the college bell rested was
one hundred and five years old I must be at least one
hundred and seven years old, because I remember
having seen the frame erected and the bell placed in
position. Our psychologist will doubtless agree with
me that it is extremely unusual for anyone of my
age to recall things that happened before he was two
years old. To be sure I was exempt on account of
age from service in the Civil War, but that is an-
other story.

The center building was erected in 1824. There
was a porch in front between the columns, but after
a few years the porch was taken down on account of
noise. ‘The cupola on top was not added until 1842,
and the statue of Washington was not ordered until

1844,

The Southwest square building was _ constructed
as a Science hall in 1831 but the square columns
were not added until 1842. The northeast square
building with its portico and the two-story buildings
connecting the central building with the three story
square edifices were completed in 1842. In 1844 the

 

Dean H. D. CAMPBELL, ’82

—His age grew less

 

 

Board of Trustees, in commemoration of the found-
ers of the College, assigned names to the units of the
group; Graham for the Main Building; Robinson for
the Science Hall; Cincinnati for the northeast square
edifice; Baxter for the two story building connecting
the Cincinnati and Graham, and the Chapel for the
connecting link between Graham and_ Robinson.
The students, however, called them Main Building,
Paradise, Cat-Tail, Purgatory and Chapel, respec-
tively.

It may be of interest to know that the floors and
stairs of Paradise were lined with brick.

But what about the bell? During the years thus

far referred to no college bell told the time of day,

but in its stead a trumpet sent forth its periodic calls
to duty or relaxation, as graphically told by Dr. Wil-
liam Henry Ruffner in Historical Papers No. 6. In
1836 an additional college servant named John Henry,
a free man of ginger-bread color, had been employed
by the College and he soon became very popular with
the students. “The boys called him ‘Professor,’ a ti-
tle which came from an incident in which a new stu-
dent inquired of some other students where he might
find the professor of French. ‘There he stands!’ said

 

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

one pointing to John Henry, and the newcomer
marched up to John and was deceived long enough
to fix the title which, however, was usually abbre-
viated into ‘Fess.’ The tin horn, called by the pres-
ident the ‘trumpet’, was then used to give the col-
lege signals, and of all performers on this instrument
John Henry. was the finest. He used a straight
horn about five feet long, and produced from it a
wonderful variety of melodious sounds. ‘The old
fashioned stage drivers were expert trumpeters, and
as they drove up slowly in the mud from the river
to town at a quiet hour of the night, their music
was sweet and inspiring—especially to citizens who
had been long waiting for the tri-weekly mail from
the outside world. But none of these drivers could
equal the wild, tender blasts, and the warbling stac-
catos. of John Henry. Any horn would have
sounded well to the boys at twelve and at four, and
there were always some of. them standing by ‘Fess’
as they watched ‘impatiently the slow creeping
shadow of: the column of the portico as it ap-
proached the twelve o’clock mark on the sandstone
curbing. But strange as it may appear, that horn
had a brightening effect upon the sleepy and faith-
ful boys as they gathered in the Chapel at 5 o’clock
on a dark winter’s morning.” ;

In what year the trumpet ceased sounding its sig-
nals I do not know, but in the days following the
Civil War a large hand bell had taken its place. I
recall seeing the servants walking through the arcade
and corridors ringing the bell with perfect rhythm.
A little later a large bell was placed in the tower of
the new Chapel, but in 1889 that bell became
cracked, and it was decided to buy an even larger
one and hang it in the cupola on the Main building.
In 1890 the present 1,000 pound bell was set in
place on a new frame made of first class lumber.
It was this frame which gave way at midnight of
December 31, 1927, after having carried its heavy
vibrating load for thirty-seven years — instead of
one hundred and five, as stated in the Ring-tum Phi.
My age has grown less in the telling of the story.

In reply to Mr. Penick’s inquiry as to the cost of
the bell the records show that it cost $286, less $110
for the old bell. Since figures have been asked for
I might add that the center building cost $9,000 and
that the other buildings of the central group, to-
gether with the four professors’ houses having col-
umns, cost $22,000; and that, in 1824, a professor’s
salary was $800 and a share of tuition fees: that
the tuition fees were $15 for five months, and that
there were 45 students in 1824 and 63 in 1827.

 

ALBERT STEVES, JR., ’06, was a visitor to
Lexington for a day during February.

LEE MUSEUM OPENED HERE JANUARY
19TH

The Lee Museum, a new home for many objects
of special interest connected with the early history
of our country and the war between the states, was
opened to visitors in the forward part of the base-
ment of the memorial chapel on Marse Robert’s
birthday. .

A large room, which was the college Y meeting
room when Lee was president and in which he was
buried until 1883, has been made fire proof and
converted into the confederate relic room; and a
smaller room which was once the treasurer’s office
and adjoins the office of Lee which is preserved
today practically as he left it, has been fixed up and
freshly painted and turned into the colonial relic
room. : |
" The trustees of the University appointed a com-
mittee in 1927 to carry out these improvements and
made an appropriation for the work and to purchase
some objects of interest.

Among the interesting historical displays are the
paintings possessed by General Lee; a lantern used —
by Lee during the war and presented by the Lee-
Jackson post of Lexington, a campaign map used by
the general; a semi-weekly newspaper printed in
Alexandria, La., in 1863 on colored wall-paper; the
original indenture made on December 7, 1798 by
George Washington presenting 100 shares of the
stock of the James River Company to the trustees
of Washington Academy, etc.

The Lee Museum contains a number of. articles
loaned by Dr. George Bolling Lee of New York,
such as a pair of spurs which were worn by Lee at
his surrender at Appomattox, a clock carried in his
campaign, etc.

Dr. W. P. Nye, of Radford, Va., and Mr. E. T.
Black, of New York, have given some very valuable
collections. The museum holds many documents,
some under the signature of the Father of his
Country.

ee

LITERARY MAGAZINE APPEARS

Predicted as a revival of the “Southern Collegian”
a literary magazine appeared under the meaningless
title of the “Periwig,” unlike the Southern Collegian.
It was sponsored by the Hybiscus Club, newly formed
literary group organized by Professor Fitzgerald
Flournoy, ’21. The few student contributions, one
faculty contribution, and some book reviews provided
good reading.

It is announced that another issue of this publica-
tion will be compiled and printed soon.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

How Twentieth Century Under-Graduate Training Differs from the “Col-
lege Course” of Our Fathers

(By Henry Louis SmitH)

Ist.. In the Nature, Motwe, and Number of the
Student-body.

A generation ago a selected few went to college
to prepare for a quartette of “learned” professions,
and the undergraduate curriculum was carefully ad-
justed to the pre-professional training of these few.
Today future bricklayers, clerks, taxi-drivers, farm-
ers, and business men of every type are crowding
our colleges along with the preachers, doctors, and
teachers of tomorrow.

2nd. In the Lafe-Work for Which the Students
Are Preparing.

The undergraduates of the 19th century were a
selected few preparing for advanced professional
study in seminaries, medical colleges, and law
schools or for graduate work in the same institution.

Today three-fourths of all who finish their ‘‘col-
lepe cOMree ~Deein at oce tO fie a vite =A
single graduating class may scatter into fifty differ-
ent “vocations” within three months of “Com-
mencement Day.”

3rd. In the Present Social Emphasis of American
Civilization.

The former high-school course in America was
dominated by the purpose of preparing all students
for successful college study. ‘The present controll-
ing aim is to prepare high school students for effec-
tive citizenship.

The controlling aim of the undergraduate courses
of a generation ago was to prepare the undergradu-
ates for advanced study. The controlling aim of
today and still more of tomorrow is to prepare un-
dergraduates for Life and its Problems, not merely
or mainly for graduate study.

4th. In the increasing Practicality of all Education;
in the decline of the former standing of Abstract
“Scholarship” and the former importance of
“Subjects”; in the growing custom of fitting the
curriculum to each individual student rather than
forcing every student to eat and digest the same
intellectual fare at the university table.

In other words, education from the kindergarten
to the university is being fitted to the needs and fu-
ture of the imdividual rather than of the supposed
“average young person.”

Sth. In the increasing and widespread belief that a

young American who devotes his four undergrad-

 

PRESIDENT SMITH

“__Today future bricklayers . . . . taxi drivers
jarmers . ... . ave crowdimg our colleges’

 

 

uate years to abstract mental gymnastics and
postpones selecting a vocation till his college
course is over makes a big and possibly a_ disas-
trous mistake.

His first “college study’ should be a _ thorough
study of himself, body, mind, spirit, aptitudes, pos-
sibilities. 3

His second a study of our American Cvtvilization,
its history, characteristics, and vocational needs and
opportunities.

His third is to determine what general line of
lifework furnishes to him and his individuality the
most congenial and rewarding line of life-long
activity. :

His fourth is to select such a curriculum as will
eive him a broad, “‘liberal’, effective basis. for his
future career.

HENRY N. BARKER, 714, has located at Bristol,
Tennessee, for the general practice of law.

20 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lexington

A Five-and-Ten is coming to Lexington. The
former site of Weinberg’s store and J. M. Meeks’
clothing store is to be occupied by a New York
chain ten-cent store. The old building has been

razed and a new one is now being constructed by
Mr. Weinberg.

Weinberg’s store will occupy the room formerly
occupied by. their music department, which has
been moved to the room on Nelson Street formerly
occupied by Young’s Electric Shop, across from the
New Theatre.

J. M. Meeks has moved to the Masonic Lodge
building on Nelson Street, adjoining his former
partner, B. F. Tolley (Tolley’s Toggery).

Young’s Electric Shop is now located in the old
frame building at the corner of Washington and
Jefferson Streets, opposite the Lexington Pool
Room (students’ Winter Resort).

Walter’s Barber Shop, branched from the original
Jackson’s Shop (barber to General Lee), has located
in the Nelson Street building occupied during the
past few years by Cobb’s Pressing Shop. Other
Jacksons remain at their same old stand.

Cobb’s Pressing Shop has taken quarters in
Montgomery’s Garage building behind the Dutch
Inn between Lee Avenue and Jefferson Street.

It is announced that a new building will replace
one of the old structures on upper Main Street
above the Fire Department and improvised City
Hall. It is rumored that Fox’s Restaurant will oc-
cupy the ground floor.

W. W. Coffey has enlarged his home on the Lee
Highway just outside of town and converted it into
a tourists’ hotel. Numerous other homes on_ the
Natural Bridge side of Lexington have been adapted
for tourist lodgings, so great has been the north and
south spring and summer travel through Lexington.

A completely new residential district has sprung
up between the extenuation of Jackson Avenue and
Main Street Southwest. Monroe Park is the most
conspicuous addition. New homes have been built
and occupied there by Mercer Graham, ’17, R. A.
smith, 15, E. P. Davis, 715, and Prof. R. B. Ellard.
Prof. Ramon Johnson and Registrar E. S. Mat-
tingly, 24, have purchased homes in that section.
Lots are owned and building contemplated in Mon-
roe Park by President Henry Louis Smith and
Prof. William Coan.

Grading on the Midland Trail (East and West
National Highway) just outside of Lexington is
nearly finished. Contracts have been let for hard
surfacing the unpaved link between Lexington and

Clifton Forge, this surfacing to be completed by
October 15th of this year. Upon completion a hard
surfaced highway will be provided from Lexington
into West Virginia.

EE

FINALS ARE SET UP A WEEK
The 1928 Washington and Lee Finals have been

advanced one week. Commencement and the Final
Ball will take place June 5th, under the new ar-
rangement.

Under the original plan, as outlined in the Uni-
versity catalogue published last spring, the final day
would not have been until June 12, but in order to
cooperate with the administration at the Virginia
Military Institute, the officials here have so rece
that finals will be one week earlier.

Examinations will begin here on Monday, May
21, and will be over Friday, June 1. Wednesday,
May 30, National Memorial Day, will be a regular
University holiday. No examination will be given
on that date.

Final dances will consist of the regular set of five,
beginning on Friday, and ending with the Final
Ball lasting all the night of Tuesday, June 5. Ac-
cording to tentative plans, Jan Garber will furnish
the music for these dances.

nema

MOCK CONVENTION

The student body of Washington and Lee will hold
a mock Democratic Convention on April 23. ‘The
executive committee is in communication with the
chairman of the National Democratic Party, and the
convention here will be conducted like that of the na-
tional convention.

 

THE 1928 CALYX

Student editors of the Washington and Lee an-
nual, the Calyx, announce the coming issue of their
1928 edition with complete resume of the year; a
review of athletic, social, literary, and fraternal
events on the campus; announce that the volume
will be bound in gold and black, that it will contain

many new and finely reproduced campus views, that

it will contain four-color illustrations for the first
time, that its theme will be the War between the
States.

Appeal to alumni for subscriptions at $6.50 per
volume; check to be mailed to R. D. Powers, Jr.,
Business Manager, P. O. Box 896, Lexington, Va.,
before May 15th.

 

a

ia mr

ann

me

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Lee, the American

(New York Times, Jan. 19, 1928.)

Southerners in New York will celebrate today an
anniversary of the birth of Robert E. Lee. Since
an equestrian statue of the Confederate captain was
unveiled near the scene of Pickett’s charge at Gettys-
burg in June, 1917, after the United States entered
the World War, he has been spoken of more often
as a great American, one of the foremost soldiers of
all time, than as Lee of Virginia. It may be doubted
whether the character of Robert E. Lee was really
understood until the “Recollections” of his son, Cap-
tain Robert FE. Lee, appeared in 1924. The mod-
esty, the courage, the humility and the grandeur of
soul of “the old Confederate rebel’’, as he called him-
self, half whimsically, half sadly, in his retirement at
Lexington, were brought out in that record so beauti-
fully that scorners were subdued to contrition. “Abo-
lition Massachusetts had done more than any other
Northern State to lift the shadows from the fame of
Lee. Ata time when it still required courage to speak
well of the Confederate leader, a gallant Union sol-
dier, Charles Francis Adams, dared to say of the
resignation from the army and the decision to share

_ Virginia’s fate: “I hope I should have been filial and

unselfish enough to have done as Lee did.” Adams
was putting himself in the place of Lee, the son of
that “Lighthorse’ Harry Lee, who in the debate on
the Virginia and Kentucky resolutions of 1798-99
had said: “Virginia is my country; her will I obey,
however lamentable the fate to which it may subject
.’ Such was his devotion to the doctrine of States’
rights, and Robert E. Lee inherited it. Later than the
championship of Adams was Gamaliel Bradford’s
sympathetic study, “Lee, the American.”
Bradford had no idea of glorifying secession—
slavery Lee never fought for—but he did set himself
the task of proving the moral heroism of the man
who declined the command of the Union armies to
unsheathe his sword, if need be, in defense of Vir-
ginia, and who through four years of conflict lived
up to his ideals as a soldier and a Christian. Ali
Americans are proud of the place given Lee in the
ranks of:commanders by magnanimous Northern sol-
diers, Hunt, Livermore and Swift; by-civilians like
Ropes; and by English soldiers like Wolseley, Hender-
son and Maurice. The last declares that to the “select
band of great commanders,’ Alexander, Hannibal,
Caesar, Gustavus, T’urenne, Eugene, Frederick and
Napoleon, the name of Robert EF. Lee must be added.
But let it never be forgotten that after the surren-
der at Appomattox General Lee used his great influ-
ence as the idol of his people to bring the seceding
states back into the Union, body and soul, and him-
self set the example of good citizenship. “Lee’s atti-

 

THE LATE CHARLES FRANCIS ADAMS

“—dared to say—’

 

 

tude toward the United States Government”, says
Bradford, “was from the first one of loyal recognition
and submission.” He applied for amnesty under the
President’s proclamation. Writing to a friend, he
said: “I believe it to be the duty of every one to
unite in the restoration of the country and the rees-
tablishment of peace and harmony.’ He avoided
politics. He shunned publicity, and applied himself
humbly to his duties as president of Washington Uni-
versity. All his property had been swept away in the
war. For five years and until his death he labored as
an educator for just enough money to maintain his
modest household. The nobility of his character
shines out in the response to an offer to become the
head of a great business firm in New York:

“T have a self-imposed task which I must accom-
plish. I have led the young men of the South in bat-
tle; I have seen many of them die on the field; I shall
devote my remaining energies to training young men
to do their duty in life.”

(Reprinted by permission )

 

Ze THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Antiquity of Graham-Lee

(C. H. Witson, in Ring-Tum Pht)

The oldest institution on the campus inaugurated
officers for the 360th consecutive time January 19.
Graham-Lee, with a history dating back 119 years
to January 19, 1809, is also one of the three oldest
literary societies 1n America.

For some years, at least, it was probably the most
influential student organization on the campus. In
the years previous to 1850 over half the students
belonged to it. Collaborating with the Washington
Society, Graham-Lee edited the Southern Collegian,
a magazine of university news, literary essays, and
humor for 55 years.

It was first organized in 1809 as the Graham So-
ciety. By a strange coincidence it was founded in

the year of Lincoln’s birth, and on the same day,

Jan. 19, that later was. to be celebrated over the
South as the birthday of General Lee. About 1870
Lee’s name was linked to the original name of the
society. | , |
Some of Graham-Lee’s most prominent members
of today are John W. Davis, Democratic presidential
nominee of 1924, Newton D. Baker, Secretary of
War under Wilson, and Harry St. George Tucker,

the present congressman from this district.

One of its members was “kicked out’ of school
for throwing a biscuit across the dining hall, acci-
dentally hitting a member of the faculty on the
cheek. He was John J. Crittenden, of Kentucky,
who later became U. 8S. senator from that state and
Attorney General under presidents Harrison and
Fillmore.

Political questions harassing the nation during the
years preceding the Civil War came before the so-
ciety for debate, and the right side usually won—
that is, the right side according to modern views.
Twice before 1850 the right for states to secede
from the union was debated. Both times the verdict
said they had not that right. Slavery was also con-
demned in debates held in the fifties.

When General Hunter swept through Lexington

in 1864, he destroyed the hall furnishings and most

of the society’s records, so little is known concerning
the society’s activities in ante-bellum days.

Graham-Lee, however, gave the university some
excitement in 1830. At that time two-thirds of the
students were members of it. The faculty tried to
cut out some of the society meetings because they
diverted the student’s mind from study. Washing-
ton College was thrown into turmoil. Society mem-
bers compared their case to that of the American
colonies against England. And like the American

colonies they overcame the “tyranny” of their op-
pressors.

Just after the Civil War, subjects that remained
vital were debated in the society halls. For instance,
coeducation was thrashed out in 1873. In 1874 the
question of whether women or money have the
greater influence over man was argued. In 1875,
before an audience composed of “a large portion of
the beauty of Lexington,’ woman suffrage was de-
bated.

All these years, 1870 and 1919, editors elected
from the society were in charge of the Southern
Collegian. What this publication was can be had
from the following title heads coming from an issue
of fifty years ago: “Lexington Needs a Railroad’;
“A Social Evil” (flirting between students and Lex-
ington girls in Lee Chapel); and “A Valedictory
Address. to Those Who Flunk-out.”

 

LEE RELICS TAKEN FROM STEVENS FIRE

Fire which destroyed Mrs. W. LeConte Stevens’
home January 3, consumed several pieces of furni-
ture once belonging to the Lees. A case of Lee
relics was, however, taken out at the time and has
been recently placed in the new museum at Wash-
ington and Lee. The expensive victrola and large
case of records of operas were also taken out and
has been presented to the college.

The furniture, consisting of the Arlington set; a
wash stand, bureau and bedstead, all hand carved,
formerly in General Lee’s home at Arlington, and
given by him to his daughter, Miss Mary C. Lee,
and later by her to the Stevens; a painting stand
given by Mrs. R. E. Lee to Mrs. John Letcher and
a picture of Lee, tinted by his wife and presented
to Mrs. Stevens, all were burnt up in the fire.

The phonograph records have been placed tempo-
rarily in the Engineering building, where Professor
Stevens taught, and may be borrowed by students,
town’s people and any visitor, upon application to
the Y. M. C. A. secretary during the morning office
hours, and played in the Y room. Inquiry can be
made at the Y. M. C. A. office during the hours of
9a.m.tol p.m. Professor John A. Graham hopes
to open a music room at the University where the
records and victrola of the late Dr. Stevens will be
placed.

 

MR. and MRS. VERNON E. FUNKHOUSER,
"95, of Kansas City, Mo., were in Lexington over the
week-end visiting their daughter, Mrs. John A. Lacy
and other relatives.

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE oo

Notable

K..H. Minuer, senior student, Pin Beta Kappa
elect, president of the student body of Washington
and Lee, attended the convention of the National
Student Federation of America at Lincoln, Ne-
braska, Dec. 15-17, was elected president of that

organization for 1928. This federation embraces

the student body organizations of the leading men’s
and women’s colleges and universities of the coun-
try, over two hundred of which were represented at
the Lincoln Convention. It was announced that the
next convention would be held at the University of
Missouri.

Newton D. Baker, 94, famed lawyer, ex-Mayor
of Cleveland, Ohio, Secretary of War in the Wilson
Cabinet, humanitarian, newly elected trustee of
Washington and Lee, stated that the nomination of
Governor “Al” Smith of New York for the presi-
dency of the United States “would be an entirely
creditable one to the democratic party.” Himself
considered as a suitable candidate, Mr. Baker let it
be known that he would not permit his name to go be-
fore the Democratic voters of Ohio for endorsement
as the Buckeye State’s favorite son.

Mayor LeRoy Hopces, ’10, Managing Director of
the Virginia Chamber of Commerce, apostle of a new
order in the Old Dominion, missionary of Virginia
commerce to the markets of Great Britain, with other
prominent Virginians was the luncheon guest of Brit-
ish Ambassador, Sir Esme Howard at the British
Embassy, Washington, D. C., recently. He received
valuable souvenirs and high praise in appreciation of
his part in entertaining the all-British delegation
which visited the U. S. last year as guests of the Vir-
ginia State Chamber of Commerce.

Dr. CHURCHILL, Gipson, for ten years Rector of
the Lee Memorial Episcopal Church, Lexington, Army
Chaplain in service over seas during the war, re-
spected friend and councellor of many W. and L. stu-
dents during his service here, presented his resigna-
tion to his vestry, accepted a call to St. Mary’s Epis-
copal Church, Ardmore, Pa., planned to depart for
his new field about the middle of April, heard many
expressions of genuine regret.

Joun W. Davis, ’92-’95, famed lawyer, former U.
5. Congressman, former U. S. Solicitor General, Am-
bassador to the Court of St. James under Woodrow
Wilson, ex-president of the American Bar Associa-
tion, Democratic nominee for the Presidency, able son
of an able father, spoke before the South Carolina
State Bar Association, stated—“Gentile England had
Disraeli, a Jew, for Premier, Protestant Canada a

Catholic Premier, Laurier, and Catholic France a
Protestant President, Doumergue.” Declared, “I’d
be ashamed to believe that the spirit of tolerance is
less in America than in those great democracies I
have named,” left his hearers to draw their own con-
clusions.

J. Lypet, PrcxK, ’23, movie director, amateur li-
brettist, scenario writer, wrote for “The San Francis-
can,’ sophisticated Pacific coast monthly, on the
“Hollywood Hydra,” predicted that “within the next
year the constellation of vamps and shieks will be re-
placed by new faces at salaries somewhat commensu-
rate with their ability. The day of the five and ten
thousand dollar a week pay check is a thing of the
past, and the same applies to directors and _ writers.
There will be no little wailing, moaning, cursing and
gnashing of teeth by these prodigal satellites, but with
the passing of the king, so passes the courtiers and
courtesans of his court. Sound business methods
will take the place of those studio intrigues that would
have -made the coups of Du Barry and de Pompadur
appear elementary and childlike. Ability will take
the place of bootlicking, backbiting syncophants who
have for years groveled before the producers in their
attempted venality.

Dr. Joun H. Lartans, professor of American His-
tory at Johns Hopkins University, one time professor
of History at Washington and Lee, lectured at Yale
University on “The Problem of Latin-America,” pro-
nounced the U. S. policy at the recent Pan-American
conference purely negative, stated that “Economic
Imperialism does not have to resort to such crude
methods as annexation.’ Expressed the opinion that
“—no nation, not even the United States, is great
enough and wise enough to be the judge in its own
cause . . . if we wish to maintain a reputation
for justice and fair play—intervention should never
be taken on our sole responsibility.”

 

 

 

Tue.Law House

 

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Minutes of the Meeting of the Board of Trustees of the Alumni
Association, Inc.

NovEMBER 5TH, 1927

Minutes of the meeting of the Board of Trustees
of the W. & L. Alumni Association, Inc., November
Sth, 1927, in the Alumni Building, 9:30 A. M.
Trustees present were Judge FE. C. Caffrey, ’09,
president; Dr. Wm. Allan, D. B- Owen, E. P. Da-
vis, Laurence Witten and Verbon E. Kemp, Secre-
tary.

The meeting was called to order by President
Caffrey. Secretary Kemp offered the new Consti-
tution as drawn up by the committee on the Consti-
tution, Dr. Wm. M. Brown, 714, chairman, and
printed in the August, 1926, number of the ALUMNI
MacaziIngE for formal adoption. In Article X,
Officers, the sentence “in no case shall any one of
the above officers succeed himself in office’ was de-
leted and the parenthetical proviso that not less than
two names for nomination to each office be sub-
mitted by the nominating committee at each election
was withdrawn. Otherwise the Constitution was
adopted as drafted.

Upon motion by Trustee Laurence Witten the
board unanimously protested against the twenty-five
cent charge to be levied for admission to the Lee
Chapel and Tomb and deplored the publicity at-
tending this action by the University Board of
Trustees. |

The Board unanimously passed the following peti-
tion to the University administration:

“Since the value of the scholarship which active
local alumni chapters are privileged to award to an
entering student annually was $50 when the tuition
fee was $100, and since the present value of this
scholarship is only $80 although the tuition fee has
been increased to $260, we respectively petition that
this scholarship be increased in value to one-half of
the total annual tuition fee, namely, $130 at pres-
ent.” ,

As provided in the alumni Constitution ‘Trustees
Laurence Witten, Dr. William Allan and D. B.
Owen were appointed to act as a committee to se-
lect and recommend the names of alumni to the
University Board of Trustees for their considera-
tion in filling the vacancy on their board created by
the death of Trustee F. T. Glasgow, ’74. ‘This
committee met and submitted the following recom-
mendations :

“To the Honorable the Board of ‘Trustees of
Washington and Lee University: In accord with

the privilege you have heretofore granted to the
and fully appreciative of

Alumni Association, Inc.,

the consi given our recommendations in
most of the recent elections to your body, we re-
spectfully submit the names of the following alumni
who we feel particularly fulfill the stated non-
denominational and non-political ideals of Wash-
ington and Lee and whose recognized ability and
high character qualify them for membership in the
supreme governing body of our Alma Mater: Judge
K. C. Caffrey, B. L. 09, Newark, N. J.; Major Le-
Roy Hodges, B. A. ’10, Richmond, Va. and John
I. Campbell, A. B., 09, LL. B. ’11,. Lexington, Va.
“Respectfully submitted:

Laurence Witten, 710,

William Allan, ’02,

C. B. Owen, 713,

Committee.”

 

TOMMY SEEHORN, ’26, RETIRES FROM
PRO BASEBALL

Jacksonville, Fla—Feb. 24; Tommy Seehorn, ’26
fine infield and out field prospect secured by the Jack-
sonville Tars last season, has decided to retire from
professional baseball, he notified Charles B. Griner,
president of the local club.

However, local officials are anxious to retain the
youthful performer and have forwarded to him sub-
stantial salary inducements. Seehorn stated most em-
phatically in his letter that he did not wish to be re-
garded as a “hold-out”. He has a good position in
a Memphis Bank, it is said, and wishes to continue
in the money counting business, going on baseball’s
voluntarily retired list.

Still, the lure of the diamond in the spring and a
bigger salary check than that of last year are factors
counted upon to bring Tommy back to Jacksonville.
Two years ago he was captain of the W. & L. nine.

 

TROUBADOUR TRIP

The ‘Troubadours, student dramatic and musical
organization in some ill repute because of student
misconduct on their last spring tour, were granted
probationary permission by the Faculty to schedule a
tour for the Faster holidays. Their vehicle will be a
comedy, “The Butter and Egg Man,” popular Broad-
way success. A complete itinerary has not been an-
nounced. “The Southern Collegians,’ able student
orchestra, will accompany the dramatic organization.

EUGENE H. WHITE, ’27, entered the School
of Law at W. & L.

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

John S. Munce, Trustee

It has been said that two of the most active, in-
terested and useful members of the Board of Trus-
tees of the University are not alumni. One of these
is able, enthusiastic Trustee Charles J. McDermott
of New York City. The other is quiet, efficient
Trustee John S. Munce of Richmond, Va.

The time was 1901. Washington and Lee was on
the threshold of a period of growth and expansion.
John L. Campbell, beloved Treasurer and _ business
manager of the University, felt that the advice of
a clear headed, practical and experienced business
man was needed in the management of the financial
affairs of the University. The old guard of the
Alumni Association felt that John S. Munce of
Richmond fulfilled these requirements, sponsored
his election, broke the unwritten law that only
alumni preachers and alumni lawyers could be elected
to the Board.

The then new trustee was a Scotch Irishman,
born and educated in the north of Ireland, an emi-
grant to the U. S. in 1883, a settler at Richmond in
1884; District representative for Kingan and Com-
pany, potent Irish firm of meat packers and ex-
porters. He had built up a large business for his
firm on the Atlantic Seaboard, established a large
packing plant in Richmond, established a reputation
for business sagacity and foresight as well as for
salesmanship and promotion.

As a trustee Mr. Munce, in cooperation with
Treasurer John LL. Campbell, sponsored the engage-
ment of a firm of chartered accountants to reorgan-
ize the Treasurer’s office and establish an up-to-
date accounting system. Later he sponsored the
organization of the School of Commerce and Busi-
ness Administration at Washington and Lee, the
first such school to be established in a Southern uni-
versity. At all times he has been a bulwark of
practical knowledge in matters financial, a supporter
of practical innovations. He looks back fondly
upon his association with the late John L. Camp-
bell, and says, “I have enjoyed the friendship and
fellowship of my colleagues on the Board, many of
whom, I am sorry to say, have passed to the great
beyond. I have also enjoyed the opportunity to co-
operate with such men as Dr. Denny and Dr. Smith.”

In addition to Mr. Munce’s ever-increasing busi-
ness obligations and the increasing demands made
on him by Washington and Lee, he is a trustee of
the Union ‘Theological Seminary (Presbyterian).
For some years he has been President of the Board
of Trustees of that institution. He is an Elder in
the Second Presbyterian Church of Richmond.

 

TRUSTEE JOHN S. MUNCE

“a bulwark of practical knowledge”

 

 

SIXTY MEN FALL UNDER AUTOMATIC

A total of sixty men were caught by the automatic
rule at mid-term. Forty-four of the men to whom
this rule was applied were freshmen and the remain-
ing sixteen were upper classmen.

Of the sixteen old men to fall under the rule, only
seven were reinstated in the University. Most of the
freshmen were reinstated, however.

The semester automatic rule for all students reads
as follows:

A student automatically severs his connection with
the University if, on any semester report, he fails to
pass in nine semester hours of work or receives grade
F in six semester hours.

 

REE SR RD SNES SEPP RE A IEE :

 

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Letters

HENRY W. DEW, ’11

The following very interesting letter from Henry
W. Dew, B.S., ’11, has been received in response to
a request for material for a sketch in the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE.

“Dear Mr. Kemp:

“Your letter of February 9th asking for a chron-
icle of my activities since leaving Washington and
Lee has just reached me, and in spite of the fact
that my path has been along the middle of the road,
with little out of the ordinary happening, I hasten to
reply to your request as an indication of my desire
to lend whatever support I can to the interesting
work you are carrying on for the ALUMNI MaGa-
ZINE. |

“After leaving Washington and Lee in 1911 I
spent two years at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, taking a Post-Graduate Course in Min-

ing and Metallurgical Engineering; after which I

went to work for the Anaconda Copper Mining
Company at Great Falls, Montana. My connection

with this Company continued until I went into the.

Army in 1917 with the exception of several months
spent out in the wilds near Glacier National Park for
the United States Reclamation Service, and various
changes in my status took me over most of that
Western Country from the Canadian Line to San
Francisco. |

“T attended the First Officers’ Training Camp at
the Presidio, San Francisco, and eventually went to
France with the Fourth Division, as a Motor Trans-
port Officer. Soon after returning to this country
and being discharged from the Army, I secured a
position with the National Carbon Company, Inc., at
Niagara Falls, N. Y. I was transferred to New
York City in the capacity of a Sales Engineer for
this Company in 1921, and have been pretty much
on the same job.ever since; although I now also work
for the Electric Metallurgical Company, which is an
associate Company in the Carbide and Carbon Cor-
poration.

“This work is exceedingly interesting to me, as it
involves the sale of electrodes, alloys and other ma-
terials, which keeps us in contact with practically all
the iron and steel people in the United States, as
well as most of the non-ferrous industries, such as
the brass, bronze, aluminum and: nickel trade. We
are particularly interested in the development of
stainless steels, rustless irons and other non-corro-
sive specialties and heat resisting metals, which re-
quire our alloys, and we keep in touch with most of
the developments along this line of metallurgy in the
country.

“The work requires more or less traveling and in
the course of a year may take me from Duluth,
Minn., to Galveston, Texas, and anywhere east of
this line. Close contact with many friends in the
trade, however, outweighs the disagreeableness of
traveling and makes this kind of a life most agree-
able.

“In January 1927 I was married to Miss Sarah
Ford of Houston, Texas, and we are living at 56
Fast 87th Street, New York City. We shall be glad
to have any Washington and Lee friends, who come
this way, look in on us. ,

“Trusting that this resumé covers the information
you desire, and with highest personal regards, I re-
main

“Very truly yours,

Henry W. Dew, 711.”

JIM IZARD, 716

February 14, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp: |

I acknowledge receipt of yours of the 10th in-
stant requesting that I give you some information
in regard to myself and what I have done since
leaving college.

I am always reluctant in things of this kind, but
for your information will advise that I have been in
tlte general insurance business in this city since
leaving college. I was for a number of years in
business for myself under the name of James J.
Izard & Company but two years ago I consolidated
with the oldest insurance firm in the city and am
now a member of the above firm. (Chas. Lunsford
& Sons Insurance). |

The one main hobby that I have is my continued
interest in athletics, as I officiate in football every
Fall. I was married in 1919, and have two future
hopes for the Washington and Lee football team—
a boy six years old and one two years old.

With kindest personal regards, and hoping to have
the pleasure of seeing you sometime during the com-
ing year, I remain

Very truly yours,
Jim Izarp, ’16.

 

REV. H. W. MYERS, ’93, of 112 Yamamoto
Dori, 4 Chome, Kobe, Japan, writes us that plans are
being matured for the erection of a new church build-
ing for Kobe Union Church at a cost of about $50,000.
A new site has been secured and the money is in

hand.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 2/

Phi Beta Kappa Honors Eleven Alumni

In addition to the election of graduating students
to membership the Washington and Lee chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa, premier honorary society for the
recognition of scholarship and forerunner of all Greek
Letter Social Fraternities, recognized the achieve-
ments of eleven Washington alumni by electing them
to honorary membership this year.

Alumni elected were:

Henry W. Anderson, LL.B., 98, of Richmond,
Va. famed lawyer, Director of Red Cross Relief in
the Balkans, leader of the Republican party in Vir-
ginia; counsel for the minority stockholders in the
pending Van Swearingen, Nickel Plate—C. & O.
Merger case.

James W. Bagley, B.S., ’03, of Washington, D. C.
Varsity baseball captain, ’03, Major U. S. Army
Engineers, specialist in topographic charts and maps,
fortifications and defense.

Stewart Chevalier, LL.B., 03, New York City,
descendent of the Stewarts of Virginia and Phi Beta
Kappa history, Manhattan and Washington lawyer,
initiator of the now model New York City Alumni
chapter. (See ALUMNI Macazineg, January, 1925.)

Edwin Truman Coman, LL.B., 90, San Rafael,
California, lawyer, banker, Public Servant, vice-
President of the Mercantile Trust Company of Cali-
fornia. (ALUMNI Macazine, March, 1925.)

Louis S. Epes, LL.B., ’08, Biackstone and Rich-
mond, Va., professor, lawyer, mayor of Blackstone,
artillery officer, U. S. Army, State Senator, member
of the important Virginia State Corporation Com-
mission. (ALUMNI MaGaziInr, October, 1925.)

Charles J. Faulkner, BL. 93 = imcieo, [Il.,
lawyer, General Counsel and vice-President of Arm-
our and Company, trustee Armour Institute of
Technology, trustee Armour Mission.

W. G. McDowell,. A.B., ’02, Birmingham, Ala.,
native of Lexington, Minister, Bishop, Episcopal Dio-
cese of Alabama. :

Randolph Tucker Shields, A.B., 98, Tsinan, China,
Varsity football and track athlete, 97-98, Physician,
Missionary, Professor; Dean of School of Medicine,
Shantung Christian University. (AnumMNr Maca-
ZINE, January, 1928.)

Edgar Sydenstricker, A.B., ’02, M.A., ’07, Wash-
ington, D. C., Editor, statistician, author, Chief
Statician U. S. Bureau of Public Health. (Anumnri
MacaziIne, May, 1925).

Archibald Hall Throckmorton, LL.B. ’00, Cleve-
land, Ohio, lawyer, author, professor; professor of
Law, Western Reserve University.

Carrington C. Tutwiler, A.B. 796, West Consho-
hocken, Penna., native of Lexington, chemist, president
Coopers Creek Chemical Company.

 

CoMMISSIONER Louis S. Epss, ’08

One of eleven

 

 

These distinguished alumni will come to Lexing-
ton; will be initiated at the Alumni Building, Thurs-
day, April 12th; will receive the Phi Beta Kappa Key,
emblem of scholarship, symbol of service and achieve-
ment, mark of distinction, recognized the world over.

PHI BETA KAPPA PICKS FROM CLASS
OF ’28
The Gamma chapter of Phi Beta Kappa at Wash-
ington and Lee announced the new men picked by

them from the class of 1928 Monday morning, March
Sth.

The names are: H. M. Barker, of Kentucky; H.
a Giutler, of Florida;.G. H. Carr, Jr, of Ports-
mouth, Va.; D. S. Dix, of Alabama; R. J. Haller, of
Greensboro, N. C.; R. W. Jordan, Jr., of Emporia,
Va.; J. Kaplan, of Kentucky; E. H. Miller, of Mis-
souri; W. C, Norman, of Arkansas; A. W. Pierpont,
of Florida, and J. G. Rennie, of Petersburg, Va.

JOHN J. DAVIS, ’92, is a member of the law firm
of Blakey, Davis and Lewis. His son, John J. Da-
vis, Jr., will probably enter W. and L,. in 1934.

 

 

 

 

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

~ RAYMOND WOMELDORF, ’18, WRITES TO

DR. RILEY

Raymond Womeldorf, °18, Presbyterian Mission-
ary stationed in China, sent to the W. & L. History
Department a copy of the San Ming Chu by 5un Yat
Sen in English translation, wrote to Dr. Riley of the
Chinese situation:

“The present situation is perhaps clearer to you
who are far from the maddening crowd where sober
thinking is brought into play than it is to us who are

here in the midst of it. Let me make one or two ob-

servations that seem worthwhile to many of us who
are over here. One is that at present there is no
Nationalistic Government in the sense of an organiza-
tion working for the good of the people. Many are
still laws unto themselves. All this you hear about
the government is a hope and something in the future.
One very influential Chinese man in the political lite
of the country said a few days ago that the mission-
aries were the optimists of China. According to his
way of thinking, thirty years was the earliest pos-
sible date for China to have some form of govern-
ment that could be called a government. Some mis-
sionaries think it will take much less time to get or-
ganized. So far the South has done worse on a whole
than the North. They have treated the people worse,
both Chinese and foreigner. But it only stands tg
reason that the decent people of this country will not
tolerate robber chieftains to ever continue in control
of the country.

“The Nationalists have something of patriotism
and at least have something of an ideal to which they
are working. «They are beginning to show some
signs of decency. They put the Reds out and thus
started the movement to do away with Communism,
their worst enemy.”

Speaking of his own activities, he said: “At pres-
ent I am up at one of our interior stations, the first
one in our section to be visited since the evacuation.
The place is quiet. We were talking to a fine up-
standing Christian gentleman yesterday and he said
the Chinese Reds are liable to stir up things at any
time. ‘The country is. not settled. The Christian
work in the hands of the Chinese is going on. ‘This
great upheaval it seems to some was the way the
Lord had of getting us out and the way He had of
taking our hands off of things. We cannot go back
and carry on as before.

 

GEORGE T. (“DOC”) HOLBROOK, “233.
now associated with the Century Indemnity Com-
pany, a new company sponsored by the Aetna Cas-
ualty Insurance Company of Hartford, Conn., with
which he was formerly connected. Mr. Holbrook
was in Lexington for a week during February.

L. R. HENRY, ’25

Lindsay R. Henry, ’25, of Babylon, L. I., has been
appointed assistant district attorney in the office of
United States District Attorney William A. DeGroot.

Mr. Henry served with the U. $. Naval Aviation
service during the World War. Since his admission
to the bar he has been associated with the firm of Eh-
lermann and Smyth of New York City, and with the
legal department of the Travellers’ Insurance Com-
pany as trial counsel. His late appointment carries
with it many opportunities for advancement in rec-
ognition of merit.

MARRIED. Allen Rushton, ’25, to Miss Ade-
laide Douglas of Washington, D. C. in New York
City, February 14th.

MARRIED. George Merton Swart, ’26, to Miss
Marian Harvey Stump, November 22nd, 1927.

MARRIED. Friday Meadows, ’27, to Miss Lib
Woodroe of Charleston, West Va. recently.

MARRIED. William Henry Maynard, of Clarks-
dale, Miss., senior lawyer at Washington and Lee,
to Miss Elizabeth Whittington of Tunica, Miss., at
his home during the recent Christmas vacation.
The couple spent their honeymoon in New Or-
leans, La., and are at present residing in Lexington.
Maynard plans to continue his studies at Washing-
ton and Lee until June when he will be graduated.
The couple will then live in Clarksdale.

MARRIED. John L. Jennings, ’30, to Miss
Frances Terry September 30th, 1927. Mr. Jennings
is continuing his course at W. & L. while his wife
is studying in Boston this winter.

 

ENGAGED. Dr. and Mrs. Franklin L. Riley have
announced the engagement of their daughter, Fran-
ces Leigh, to Mr. Walter C. Shorter of New York
City.

 

BORN. To Mr. and Mrs. Berkeley Cox, 714, a
daughter, Katherine, on February 27, 1928.

BORN. To Mr. and Mrs. Robert C. Smith, ’26,
a daughter, Margaret Anne, on January 12th, at
Greenville, S. C.

BORN. To Mr. and Mrs. Ralph Daves, ’26, a
son, January 26th, at Lexington.

 

PAUL WHITFIELD, ’24, is with the Century
Company (New York) as text book representative
in Southern territory.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 29

Faculty Introductions

W. ‘I. Lyte, PRoFressor oF Crivit, ENGINEERING.

There was a tremendous void in the Engineering
department when Dr. D. C. Humphreys, ’78, died.
Washington and Lee lost not only an able professor
but also a faithful servant; the students lost a loving
councillor and friend; the Alumni, Inc. an energetic
worker; the campus a monumental character.

To succeed the beloved “Davy” Humphreys the
University reached down to Houston, Texas, in 1921,
engaged Prof. William T. Lyle, lecturer on Engi-
neering at Rice Institute there.

Prof. Lyle, born in New York, received his C. E.
at Princeton in 1896, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa
there; served on the engineer corps Essex County
Park Commission (N. J.) for three years; built sewer
lines, city pavements, etc., under contract in and
around Newark for two years; took up the profes-
sion of teaching in 1902.

His first service in the professorial ranks was as
instructor and assistant Professor of Civil Engineer-
ing at the Univeristy of Pennsylvania, 1902-07; later
as assistant Professor and Professor of engineering
at Lafayette College, Pennsylvania, 1907-18. Dur-
ing the War he served as Civil Engineer with the
Taylor-Wharton Iron and Steel Company, engaged in
the manufacture of army auxiliary equipment.

For two years he lectured on Engineering at Rice
Institute in Houston. While there he prepared an
improvement and regulation plan for the city of
Houston, part of which has been put into execution.
While there he taught a Bible class and was an Elder
in the First Presbyterian Church.

In 1921 Prof. Lyle came to Washington and Lee
as Scott Professor of Civil Engineering. In Lexing-
ton he is a Director of the Chamber of Commerce, of
the Kiwanis Club, a member of the Masonic Lodge,

-an Elder in the Presbyterian Church. He is the au-

thor of a treatise on Park Engineering, and of an-
other on genealogy. He has contributed many papers
to “Proceedings, American Society of Civil Engi-

 

 

 

THE Book Housk

 

Pror. W. T. Lye
“The mantle .

. descended upon him”

 

 

neers; has taken an active part in the City Planning
Division of that society. He is a member of the
Lambda Chi Alpha Fraternity, of the American As-
sociation of University Professors, of the Princeton
Engineering Association, of the A. S. C. E., of the
American Bible Society.

Prof. Lyle’s hobbies are rowing, swimming, foot-
ball and baseball; his diversion is the study of geneal-
ogy; his specialty, Park Engineering.

The mantle of “Davy” Humphreys has descended
upon him,

February 14, 1928.
Gentlemen :

I am herewith enclosing my check for $2.50 cov-
ering subscription to the ALUMNI Macazine. I re-
gard the publication as a most excellent one, and fre-~
quently find notes of great interest to me relating to
college mates of the period from ’89 to 94,

| Sincerely yours,
RupoLPH BUMGARDNER, ’94

GEORGE T. PARRY, ex ’24, writes: “Enjoy
the magazine immensely. Will be back Finals.”

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“Ranny

Randolph McGuire Cabell, recent initiate to the
Society of Dan Owen’s Ham, less recent initiate to
the Society of Benedicts, frequent visitor to the
campus, overcomes obstacles, sells coal and coke,
travels a little, makes many friends and loves Wash-
ington and Lee.

Entering Washington and Lee in 1915 by way of
Fishburne Military Academy, Ranny went out for
Athletics, joined the Kappa Sigmas, P. A. N. and the
Cotillion Club; joined the Army, spent nine months
and many francs in France, returned; received his
A.B. in the Lee Chapel at Commencement, 1920. As
a student he was popular, hard working and unde-
terred. It is recorded that even a barricade bearing a
“Beware—Fresh Paint!” notice could not stop him!

After graduation he joined the professorial ranks,
taught French for one year at Georgia Military Col-
lege, Milledgeville, Ga., three years at his prep Alma
Mater, Fishburne. During this latter period he re-
turned to Milledgeville, and was married there to
Miss Cornelia Frances Wall.

In 1924 he gave up teaching and became associated
with his father in the Cabell Coal Company, Inc. of
Covington, Va., selling the smokeless fuels of the
Berwind-White Coal Mining Co. throughout the
South Atlantic States, retained his military affiliations
through American Legion membership and in the
National Guard, in which he is now Captain, com-
manding Battery D of the 246th Coast Artillery.

Ranny makes his home at Covington; calls at the
Alumni Building when his travels take him through
Lexington, brings Mrs. Cabell, member of the Ladies
Auxiliary to the Society of the Ham, over for Fancy
Dress, Finals and the Virginia game; meets the clats

Cabell, °20

 

R. M. Casetz, ’20
“Makes friends... , loves WG LL

 

 

of Chronic Commencement Commuters over the
famed ham, cheese and pickles every Finals; says that
every alumnus from far and near should make it a
habit of getting back at least once each year; and sells
more coal.

 

 

TOMMY GRAVES, ’26, FOR PROSECUTING
ATTORNEY

The following clipping regarding “Tommy” Graves,
‘26 is interesting to recent Grads: “Thomas A.
Graves, one of Cuero, Texas, youngest and most
promising lawyers, makes formal announcement of
his candidacy for the office of Dewitt county attorney,
subject to the Democratic primaries, in today’s issue
of the record. “Iommy’, as he is known to his
many friends, is a native of Cuero. He graduated
from W. & L. in ’26 after six years of schooling and
for the past nine months has been connected with the
firm of H. W. Wallace, prominent attorney of Cuero.”

F. PERLETTE SHULL, °26,. is) instructor @
French at Emory University.

LIEUT.-COL. W. D. A. ANDERSON, ’02

From the Alexandria Gazette we note that Lieut.-
Col. William D. A. Anderson, ’00 and ’02 corps of
Engineers, U. S. Army, Fort Humphreys was mar-
shal of the first division militia, in the patriotic cele-
bration held in Alexandria on February 22nd.

DEBATES

The student debating team argued the question of
co-education with Randolph-Macon Woman’s_ Col-
lege; lost. Met the University of Florida team at
Lexington in forensic combat; lost. Planned for a
radio debate before the public at large later in the

spring.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

Edmund D. Campbell, °22, Attorney

On the campus ‘“Eiddie” Campbell, representative
of the Campbells of Washington and Lee history,
joined the A. T. O. Fraternity, edited the Ring-tum
Phi, led cheers, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, re-
ceived his A. B. He went to Harvard, received his
Master’s Degree; returned to W. & L.; took Law,
graduated again in 1922; then went out into the
world to test his training.

He became associated with W. Jett Lauck, ’03,
professional economist, became a valuable asset to
Mr. Lauck’s staff because of his legal training,
gained much practical experience and_ incidentally
an initial reputation in his work for the Federal
Coal Commission in 1923.

In the meantime Mr. Lauck became a:member of
a syndicate which purchased the Lenox Office Build-
ing, located in a newly developing business section
of Washington. For a time Eddie acted as man-
ager of this building, along with his other work, and
thus started a connection with real estate law in the
District of Columbia in which he has since special-
ized. It was about this time that he purchased, re-
modelled and sold several old houses of the Colonial
type in Georgetown, which was becoming a very
fashionable section of the city. These transactions
brought him in more or less close contact with a
number of real estate firms which stood him in good
stead in connection with his subsequent legal work.

In February, 1925, Eddie became associated with
the old established law firm of Douglas, Obear and
Douglas, headed by Charles A. Douglas, a_ well-
known Washington trial lawyer of many years stand-
ing. During the past three years Eddie has been
directly associated with Mr. Douglas in the trial of
a number of cases of public interest, among which
may be mentioned the defense of Senator Burton
K. Wheeler and the still pending trial of William
J. Burns, head of the internationally known detec-
tive agency, for alleged contempt of court in con-
nection with shadowing the jury in the Fall-Sinclair
trial a few months ago. He also made two trips
with Mr. Douglas to Mexico City and Tampico, and
one to Havanna, the Mexican trips being in connec-
tion with representing some of the American oil
companies who were fighting the Mexican oil laws.

In the field of real estate law, Eddie’s principal
work as a lawyer, he has been retained by a consid-
erable number of local real estate firms and _ indi-
vidual operators, and has represented them in nu-
merous cases growing out of contracts for the pur-
chase and sale of real estate. One of his earliest
cases in this field was to test the constitutionality of
the Zoning law of the District of Columbia. While

 

FE. D. Campsety, 719 & ’22
“Son... . red headed”

 

 

this case was pending on appeal, however, the con-
stitutionality of zoning laws in general was upheld
by the Supreme Court of the United States in
another case involving a suburb of the city of Cleve-
land, which case was ably though unsuccessfully
attacked by Newton D. Baker, ’94. :

In a recent letter received from Eddie, he writes
us: “‘My office contains pictures of the Washington
and Lee campus, General Lee, and Dean Campbell.
Needless to say, all Washington and Lee men re-
ceive a hearty welcome, and are invited to stop in
whenever they are in the city. Lawyers, especially,
may find our library of help to them when they are
in the city on business, and are welcome to use it.”

Eddie was married in August, 1925, to Miss
Esther Butterworth of East Falls Church, Virginia.
Edmund Douglas Campbell, Jr., born July 27, 1927,
is even more redheaded than his father—at least,
that’s what Eddie says.

ee

TOHN HOOVER, ‘22, and JOHN PHILLIPS,
"24, are both studying law at West Virginia Univer-
sity.

 

 

 

 

32 7 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

George Washington—Patron of Literature and the Arts

By VeErBon FE. Kemp.

Every alumnus knows, of course, that George
Washington gave $50,000 to Liberty Hall Academy
and by that gift revived the institution; that because
of this gift the name of the Academy was changed to
Washington College, with Washington’s tacit con-
sent; and that the gift continues to yield an annual
income to the University. However the circum-
stances and details surrounding the assignment of
this sum by the immortal Washington to the embryo
University are little emphasized. ‘They are particu-
larly worthy of note at this appropriate season.

The story had its origin in the gratitude of the
state of Virginia, its romance in the pioneer efforts of
that state to overcome transportation difficulties in the
mountain fastness of her western borders and _ its
climax in the financial success of this early transpor-
tation enterprise as indicated by the almost trebled
value of its securities, which constituted the tender
of Washington’s gift.

It is recorded that early in 1784 the Legislature of
Virginia incorporated the first company to improve
the navigation of the James river, from the sea west-
ward, and in October of that year a similar company
for the Potomac. |

Immediately afterward they passed an act author-
izing the State Treasurer to subscribe on the State
account one hundred shares in the former and fifty
in the latter, “the said shares to be vested in George
Washington, his heirs and assigns forever.” ‘This
was a gift from Virginia for Washington’s personal
benefit, “—out of the desire of the representatives of
this commonwealth to embrace every suitable occa-
sion for testifying their sense of the unexampled

merits of George Washington, Esquire, towards his ©

country; and it is their wish in particular that these
great works for its improvement, which both as

springing from the liberty he has been so instrumental

in establishing, and as encouraged by his patronage,
will be durable monuments to his glory, may be made
monuments also of the gratitude of his country.” A
complexly phrased preamble, but it conveys an ex-
pressive sentiment. Virginia wished to recognize not
only Washington’s merits but also his services. What
more appropriate reward could be made to the
young colonial militia leader who had routed the
savage Indian and cleared the western trails for ex-
ploration and settlement than to give him a share in
the enterprise which was to provide a navigable water
highway from the sea to those lands beyond the Blue
Ridge? It was a most fitting expression of gratitude.

But Washington would not accept. In reply he
wrote *to the Virginia governor expressing his pro-
found and grateful acknowledgments to the Legisla-

ce

ture, “—inspired by so signal a mark of their benef-
icent intentions towards myself,’ and repeating a
firm resolution to “—shut my hand against any

pecuniary recompense.” In closing this communica-

tion, as if an afterthought he added, “—if it should
please the General Assembly to permit me to turn the
destination of the fund vested in me from my private
emolument to objects of a public nature, it will be
my study in selecting these to prove the sincerity of
my gratitude for the honor conferred on me, by pre-
ferring such as may appear most subservient to the
enlightened and patriotic views of the Legislature.”

The Legislature met in 1785, repealed their former
act and in its stead enacted that the said shares and
profits thereafter accruing from them, should stand
appropriated to such objects of a public nature in such
manner and under such distributions as the said
George Washington, Esquire, by deed during his life
time or by his last will and testament should direct
and appropriate.

Thus the matter stood. ‘Ten years passed. ‘The
canal improvements were begun, the usual vicissi-
tudes of pioneer enterprise experienced. ‘Toll re-
ceipts mounted slowly. Such small profits as were
derived went toward liquidating the Company’s debts.

By this time an inkling of Washington’s intention
had reached beyond the Blue Ridge. The Legislature
had suggested that the fund be given to some semi-
nary of learning in the “Upper Country.” Such a
seminary, William and Mary, had been richly pro-
vided for the “Lower Country’ by the Colonial
Congress. General Andrew Moore and _ General
Francis Preston, then representing “Upper Country”’

~ counties in the U. $. Congress called Washington’s

attention to Liberty Hall Academy. ‘The trustees of
that academy, hard pressed for funds with which to
run their struggling seminary, gathered for the pur-
pose of framing an address—a dignified appeal—to
the Father of their Country. Citizens of other towns
in the ‘valley presented claims. Staunton, Fincastle
and Lynchburg seemed to be likely sites for a semi-
nary of learning in the “Upper Country.” However,
Liberty Hall Academy, though crippled from poverty,
was a long established and going institution. Scotch
Irish settlers in the valley lying between the Blue
Ridge and the Alleghanys had established it in 1749
and had nursed it through an anaemic infancy. It is
recorded that Washington stated in conversation to
Generals Moore and Preston, advocates for Liberty
Hall Academy, that he preferred to help those who
had helped themselves.

It appeared to Washington that this academy would
be a happy choice. He communicated to Governor
Brooke his favorable decision in September, 1796,

 

aon ii itl ie a tia aR ai a i a le

 

 

we

 

sniiiitainaas

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

Thus the 100 shares in the James River Canal Com-
pany at a par value of $200 per share came into pos-
session of the Academy. ‘The Legislature, in Janu-
ary 1798, formally changed the institution’s name to
Washington Academy. In reply Washington wrote
from Mount Vernon on the 17th of June of that year:

“Gentlemen: Unaccountable as it may seem, it 1s
nevertheless true that the address with which you
were pleased to honor me, dated the 12th of April,
never came to my hands until the 14th inst.

“To promote literature in this rising empire and ww
encourage the arts have ever been amongst the warm-
est wishes of my heart, and if the donation which
the generosity of the Legislature of the Common-
wealth of Virginia has enabled me to bestow on
Liberty Hall—now by your politeness called Wash-
ington Academy—is likely to prove a means to ac-
complish these ends, it will contribute to the gratifica-
tion of my desires.

“Sentiments like those which have flowed from
your pen excite my gratitude, whilst I offer my best
vows for the prosperity of the Academy and for the
honor and happiness of those under whose auspices
it is conducted. |
“Geo. Washington.”

Although the material gift came from a grateful
State, its actual bestowal was at the direction and in-
stigation of the immortal Washington. For him the
incident was closed with his formal consent to have
the institution bear his name, a legal assignment of
the shares to the Academy by special warranty deed,
and a final provision in his will for its perpetuity.

But what of the Canal Company? After years of
slow development the enterprise was rewarded. A
dividend of 3 per cent was paid, then 6 per cent.
Then a period of further development during which
the proceeds “went back into the business’”’ as we say
today. ‘Then the dividends mounted to 12 per cent, to
15 and 18 per cent annually. The little poverty
stricken Academy in the “Rising empire of the West”’
was able to pay its debts, to buy equipment, and in-
crease its teaching force. It boasted of a building
which would accommodate forty to fifty students. A
steward furnished table board to students for $15.00
per quarter. One hundred dollars worth of books
and philosophical apparatus were purchased. Canny,
the Scotch Presbyterian trustees did not overlook the
protection of fire insurance.

A fire came and destroyed the stone building. It
was decided that a new building should be erected on
an opposite hill nearer the town of Lexington, though
there were grave doubts as to the wisdom of subject-
ing the students to the metropolitan influences of that
town of nearly one hundred families! Thus the
school, founded as Augusta Academy in 1749, thrice
transplanted, was erected on its present site in 1804.

 

GroRCE WASHINGCTON—CONTINENTAL SOLDIER

by Peale

 

 

It became Washington College in 1813 and Washing-
ton and Lee University in 1871.

But the old walls of Liberty Hall Academy still
stand majestically on the opposite hill. It was ru-
mored that the “vested interests’ of Lexington of the
newborn nineteenth century conspired with skilled
workmen to have the old ruins condemned in order
that the school might be rebuilt nearer the town. Any-
how, the old building was deemed unsafe for repair
and reconstruction. The skeleton stands today hav-
ing weathered the storms of one hundred and twenty-
five winters, erect and sound; an example of early
masonry and a monument to early ideals in education.

Also, Washington’s gift has endured. Encouraged
by the success of the first James River improvement,
the Legislature of Virginia decided to advance the
project further westward and join the Kanawha
River in what is now West Virginia. For this pur-
pose a new company was incorporated and the securi-
ties of the James River Canal Company redeemed.
In clearing up the affairs of the old company the State
agreed to pay the shareholders 12 per cent on their

 

 

SRLS ENT I NIE TiS

 

 

 

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

holdings for the first twelve years and 15 per cent for
ever thereafter. Thus Washington’s assignment,
originally valued at $20,000, began to yield $3,000
per year to Washington College in 1832. Nearly
thirty years later the Legislature, by formal en-
actment, fixed the face value of Washington’s gift
at $50,000. ‘Today Washington and Lee University
receives a 6 per cent income annually from that gift.
It is estimated that a total yield of $390,000 has been
received by the institution since the shares were first
conveyed to it by George Washington in 1796.

 

LEE AT LEXINGTON

These are the pathways where he went with hope
Keyed high for others when his day of deeds
Had passed into the twilight and the night

Of Death closed fast around him to his sleep.
Along these streets where gentle shade fell cool

In summer while far whispers ran with winds
That touched the tall, clean trees with song,

He walked and spoke, a last great man left here
From an age of mighty men gone from the earth
Through perilous years when his will had wrought
With theirs and held hordes of invaders back.
His heart was quickened with the joy he found

In seeing here, about him, younger men

Thrilled with high hopes in life and faith in self
To bring the broken South into her own

True place of promise in the fruitful years.

And some are yet among us who beheld

The gracious presence of the man we love

And heard him speaking in the days now dead—
Oh, loving voice of him, forevermore

In words undying framing forth his faith!

He knew men friends on every hand, and spoke
With generous words and kindly praise the while
Teaching worth of Duty in lives of men,
Far-visioning the glory of these richer years,

And Learning, bearing light to every man,

High and low, through the length of his loved land
Until all homes should be filled with Peace

And understanding of the tasks ahead.

These halls sound yet with voices from those days
Speaking to us of his wishes and his will

For us who walk the pathways that he made
Sacred with the light of his great fame.

R. M. Dorsey, Ph.D.
Boulder, Colo., Dec. 16, 1927.

ee

J. B. DOOLEY, ’24, is now claims adjuster for the
Maryland Casualty Company for the southern part
of West Virginia and can be reached in care of
United Insurance Agencies, at Charleston, West Va.

LEE

A Southland pauses in its rush

Today and bows a head for one

Who lost a cause but won a place

In every heart where hope and faith
Abound—the hope to rise above

The tragedies of life, the faith

To reach new heights and help the cause
Of brotherhood.

Beloved was Lee
Throughout the empire of the South,
Admired beyond its boundaries.

He served most loyally beneath
Two flags, a soldier ranking with
The keenest minds of all the ages.

Leader in the cause of peace and
Art he gave to searching man that
Cultural learning which endures.

Sad was he, with broken heart to
Carry through the shortening days—
A shattered heart that must not fail
To cheer, encourage those who lost—
It must inspire and carry on

There is no death for such as he.

By W. M. Glenn,

Editor and Publisher of the Orlando
Morning Sentinel.

 

SAMUEL YOUNG, ’98, is Chief Engineer, Board
of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans, sec-
ond port of the U. S. He writes:

“Now have under construction a $2,000,000 coffee
import terminal. New Orleans receives about 400,-
000,000 pounds of coffee annually—most of it from
Brazil. Much of this coffee is roasted in New Or-
leans before being distributed to various interior
states. However, most of it is distributed as ‘green
coffee.’

“Some of us who were in college with Ran Shields
enjoyed very much his recent visit to New Orleans.
He showed us a medical treatise which he had trans-
lated into Chinese. In the short time in which we
had to examine it, we did not discover any errors in
translation !”

 

EDWARD MATZ, ’24, writes us that he is still
with the Matz Coal Corporation, spending part of
the time at the mines located at Raven, Va. and part
in Louisville, Ky.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE =

 

 

    

     
 
  
  
 

   
   

—
OBITUARY

DIED. Garrett B. Wall, ’88, vice-president of aS
the Chesapeake and Ohio Railway Company, in St. a
Augustine, Fla. on January 26th. He had left Rich- hy
mond to go to Florida on account of his health eH
which had been failing for the past year, and was Pes MPs :
there only a week when his son, Garrett B. Wall, Jr., OLOGOy, ;

was summoned to his bedside. | Nas ee

Mr. Wall was widely connected in business and gaa SAGE,
social circles and prominent in railway affairs
throughout the East and Middle West. Since 1889
| when he first became connected with the Chesapeake
and Ohio Railway Company, his career has been one
of steady rise and promotion. He was associated
with the late George Stevens, president of the Rail-
way Company. He served consecutively as chief
clerk in the office of assistant superintendent, super-

     

LT HAS BEEN THE PURPOSE OF
FINCHLEY TO DEVELOP ONLY THE
MOST INTERESTING AND CORRECT

 

 

 

intendent, general superintendent and general man-
ager, and in 1917 became vice-president.

DIED. Hon. Edward Cooper, 94, at St. Luke’s
Hospital at Bramwell, West Va., on March lst. Mr.
Cooper was a well-to-do coal operator and had rep-
resented the Fifth West Virginia district in Con-
gress for two terms. The funeral was attended by
Gov. Gore of West Virginia and other men -prom-
inent in the political and industrial life of the state.

DIED. J. Sloan Kuykendall, ’96, prominent at-
torney of Romney, West Va., who was stricken with
paralysis in the county courthouse in Winchester on
February 10th just after he had closed a criminal
case in which he had represented the defendant,
died two days later in the Memorial Hospital in
Winchester where he was taken immediately after
the stroke.

Mr. Kuykendall was a graduate in Law at W. &
lL. He had served several terms in the West. Vir-
ginia House of Delegates as representative from
Hampshire county, and was a leading Democrat in
politics in that section. He was one of the most
popular citizens of his community and was active in
all civic affairs of his town.

DIED. Walter I. Heyward, ’72, sheriff of the
State Supreme Court, died at his home on March
7th, following an illness of two weeks.

 

ARTHUR W. McCAIN, ’14, has been elected
vice-president in charge of the foreign department of

National Park Bank, and expects to assume his duties

July Ist. Mr. McCain is now ranking sub-manager
of the branch of the First National Bank of Boston
at Buenos Aires, Argentina. He has been in South
America about eight years, having gone there origi-
nally with National City Bank and going to the First
National Bank of Boston some four years ago.—
(Wall Street Journal, Feb., 1928.)

 

TYPE OF WEARABLES— AND IT IS
COMMONLY ACKNOWLEDGED THAT
THE CLOTHES, HATS, SHOES AND
HABERDASHERY FOR LOUNGE, BUSI-

NESS, SPORTS AND FORMAL USAGE

ARE QUITE INCOMPARABLE IN
EVERY DEGREE. EXHIBITIONS ARE
HELD AT FREQUENT INTERVALS
IN VARIOUS CITIES OF IMPOR-
TANCE. IT WILL RESULT TO YOUR
ADVANTAGE TO ATTEND THESE
EXHIBITIONS WHEN NEAR YOU.

WRITE DEPARTMENT C FOR
ILLUSTRATED CATALOG; ALSO
INFORMATION AS TO DATES
AND PLACES OF EXHIBITIONS.

A

S
8
E
3
ry
KY
5

 

FIFTH AVENUE AT FORTY SIXTH STREET
NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Personals

WILLIAM ANDERSON McNULTY, of Roa-
noke, Va., grandson of Major William A. Anderson,
‘61, has been designated by the department to take the
entrance examination at West Point in March with a
view to entering with the class of July Ist.

Tl W. STEPHENS, ’72, of 800 8th Ave., Fort
Worth, Texas, entered Washington College in 1869;
took an A. B. degree and debater’s medal of Wash-
ington Literary Society in 1872; was licensed to prac-
tice law in Tennessee, his native state, in 18/73. In
1874 he emigrated to Texas where he has practiced
law for more than fifty years, less fifteen years on the
Appellate bench.

NATHANIEL P. PRATT, ’78, of Decatur, Ga., and
other counsel, recently filed an application in the U. 8.
District Court for an injunction to restrain C. J.
Weeks, a railroad engineer from Jacksonville, Fla.,
from revealing a “secret process” by which he said
he was able to obtain 49.2 miles in a large automo-
bile from a pint of his mixture.

The Georgia men assert in their suit that they ad-
vanced Weeks $13,700 and that after telling them
“a person or persons connected with the gasoline 1n-
dustry had offered him $1,350,000 to forget his
formula”, Weeks has since “opened negotiations”
with two motor companies.

The suit sets out that in later tests made, the sub-
stitute yielded a mileage of only 10.5 per gallon but
the pet petitioners “are still of the belief that his
process is of great value and that the contract be-
tween them and the defendant if complied with by
Weeks would result in great profit to the petition-
ers to-wit, a sum in excess of $10,000,000.”

EVAN S. McCORD, ’87, of Seattle, Washington,
was appointed to represent Washington and Lee at
the inauguration of Matthew Lyle Spencer as presi-
dent of the University of Washington, on February
22nd.

JUDGE DALLAS FLANNAGAN, ’88, was nomi-
nated on January 23, for reappointment as Common
Pleas judge of Essex County, N. J.

“ALFRED W. SHIELDS, ’91, represented Wash-
ington and Lee at the inaugural exercises of Presi-
dent Doermann of the University of the City of To-
ledo, on March 19th.

JNO. P. WALKER, ’95, of Boise, Idaho, writes:
“Had a pleasant call recently from A. C. Moore, “95,
who is practicing law at Spokane, Washington. We
both agreed that the honesty that prevails at W. &
L,. is the chief asset of a W. & L,. education.”

BENJAMIN L. ANCELL, ’95, was called out last
March from Yang Chow on account of disturbed
conditions, and has been residing since at St. John’s
University, Shanghai, and teaching in the Theologi-
cal Seminary of the Episcopal Church. His school
(Mahan School, Yangchow) is in the hands of the
Militia, and is now used as a training school for of-
ficers.

H. B. GRAYBILL, ’02, Greenbrier College for
Women, Lewisburg, West Virginia, is the author of
“Mastery of English Grammar” and Manuel to ac-
company (for use in schools in China), just pub-
lished by Edward Evans & Sons, Ltd., Shanghai.
This book completes a series of six books for six
years of Chinese Middle (High) School.

DR. JOHN SHARSHALL GRASTY, ’04, of

University, Va., has been appointed Chief Geologist
of the American Manganese Producers Association. |

L. J. BOXLEY, ’09, writes us that he is “still
building railroads and crushing rock.” He is located

in Roanoke, Va., with offices in the Boxley Building.

ELWOOD H. SEAL, 714, whose resignation as
assistant corporation counsel of the District of Co-
lumbia, took effect March Ist, has been highly compli-
mented on his efficient work by William M. Bride,
corporation counsel. Mr. Bride stated that Mr. Seal
went to Police Court at a time when the docket was
clogged with almost 500 jury cases and in cooperation
with the other two assistants, this congestion has been
entirely removed. Mr. Seal has been assistant corpo-
ration counsel since July Ist. He is the son of Mr.
and Mrs. J. W. Seal of Lexington.

WALTER STEVES, 714, has been made treasurer
of a new lumber company, The San Antonio Build-
ing Materials Company, being a consolidation of the
Ed. Steves and Sons Company and four other lumber
yards. This change was made January Ist, 1928,
after which date Ed Steves and Sons Company will
only handle financing and investments. |

W. GUY LAUGHON, ’15, 1023 Jefferson Build-
ing, Greensboro, N. C., has been appointed manager
for the state of North Carolina by the Sun Life As-
surance Company of Canada.

ROBERT M. CURTIS, ’16, writes that he is still

on the job with the Times and World-News, of Roa-
noke, Va. .

GEORGE N. DANIELSON, ’17, has been pro-
moted from the position of Naturalization Examiner

at St. Paul to Head Naturalization Examiner at Du-
luth, Minn.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

GABRIEL DE LA HABA, ’17, was appointed to
represent Washington and Lee University at the cele-
bration of the 25th anniversary of the University of
Porto Rico. :

HERBERT G. PETERS, ’17, writes us that he is
still attempting life as a bachelor. ‘‘Pete” is practic-
ing law in Bristol, Va.

M. S. SANDERS, 717, has joined A. Carter
Crymble, ex °18, to form the Crymble Electric Com-
pany, Inc., of Bristol, Va. During last year this elec-
trical engineering and contracting company wired the
General Shelby Hotel and an addition to the Elks
Home (both in Bristol) ; the George Wythe Hotel at
Wytheville, and they have recently been engaged in
wiring the Appalachian Hotel at Appalachia, Va.

_ PROFESSOR JAMES L. HOWE, Jr., 718 and
21, has returned to Hangchow College to teach, with
the permission of the American consul, and is accom-
panied by his wife, who was Miss Mary West of
Lexington. The College has dropped the word
Christian out of its name and is under a native presi-
dent, although Dr. Fitch is still practically in charge.

DR. SAM ANDERSON, 719, is engaged in the
practice of Pediatrics with offices located in Rich-
mond, Va.

WILLIAM $8. SNOW, LL.B., 719, is Judge of the
Police Court of Alexandria, Va., and one of the lead-
ing lawyers of the city.

CLINTON D. FORSYTH, ’20, has moved to 4447
Penn., Kansas City, Mo.

J. R. HAINLINE, Jr., ’20, is now president of
the J. F. McLain Fuel Corporation and located in
Marion, Ind.

R. D. HUMMEL, ’20, 2725 E. Jefferson Ave., De-
troit, Mich., writes us: “You may be interested to
know that your magazine has drawn unsolicited praise
from alumni of several universities.”

W. BRAXTON DEW, ’21, was recently made as-
sociate counsel for the Aetna Casualty Insurance
Company. The attainment of this position reflects
much credit upon Mr. Dew, particularly as it is an
executive position elected by the board of directors.
Mr. Dew was first associated with the company in
1923, after having practiced law in Wytheville fol-
lowing his graduation from W. and L,. in 1921.

WILLIAM L. LEAP, ’23, recently became Scout
Executive over the Virginia, Lewis and Clark Area
Council with headquarters at Charlottesville, Va.

OTIS W. HOWE, ’24, Wabash, Arkansas, says

in a recent communication received at the Alumni

37

 

PATRONIZE
OUR
ADVERTISERS

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

e

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which

meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty -

purse. Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

 

 

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

~McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

office: “—I don’t want to miss a single copy of the
ALUMNI MaGaziIneE as I always look forward to the
time when it arrives.”

OLLINGER CRENSHAW, ’25, is an instruc-
tor in the department of history at W. & L,

M. C. LANGHORNE, ’25, is now in the psychol-

ogy department at Emory.

RALPH LUCAS SUOTT, 25, is. an mstructor
in English at Georgia Tech.

ROY C. SLACK, ’25, 1506 Dixie Street, Charles-
ton, West Va., is with the Meter Engineering De-
partment of the Appalachian Electric Power Com-

pany.

ED WHATLEY, ’25, is located in Hopewell, Va.,
with the Atmospheric Introgen Company, and_ is
living in Petersburg.

HERMAN J. WOMELDORF, ’25, is a_ student
at the Union Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va.

G. FRED SWITZER, ’26, is associated with his
brother, Frank C. Switzer, ’24, in the telephone
business in Harrisonburg. Fred was recently elected
president of the Telephone Company and Frank was
made general manager.

S. TALMAGE MAGANN, ’27, pastor of the
Natural Bridge Baptist Church, is studying for the
M. A. degree at W. & L. and was appointed student
assistant in the department of education.

SPENCER MERRICK, ’27, is now instructor in
the high school at Newcastle, Delaware.

RALPH G. MORRISSEY, ’27, of 49 East 33rd
Street, New York City, is text book representative
in the Southern territory for the Harper and
Brother Company. Mr. Morrissey was in Lexing-
ton for Fancy Dress and says that he has, so far,
visited every reputable college in the South, and

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

 

 

ssh i eae "emma cn it al eaten

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

that W. & L. is an open sesame to recognition in
scholastic circles.

MANNING A. SIMONS, ’27, will take his M. A.
this session. He spent last summer travelling in
Europe.

oy

MARRIED. Lawrence Howerton, ’15, to Miss
Elizabeth McConkey of St. Louis, December 27,
1927.

MARRIED. Clifford B. Hartley, ’18, to Miss
Jane Warnock de Groot on December 23rd.

MARRIED. Adolph $. Marx, 7°18, of Lake
Charles, La., to Mathilde Weil of New Orleans,
June Ist, 1927.

MARRIED. Byron C. Mohler, ’25, to Miss Dor-
othy Butlin, Mexico City, Mexico, January 13th.

MARRIED. Joseph Clay Roberts, ’25, to Miss

Lucille Gaines, San Antonio, Texas, January 28th.

VISITORS

Recent alumni visitors registering at alumni head-
quarters were Frank H. Jacobs, °19, of Baltimore,
Md.; Dr. L. W. Irwin, ’87, of Williamsburg, Va.;
J. Preston Irwin, 09, of Cleveland, Ohio; Major
Bryan Conrad, 92, of Winchester, Va.; C. T. Chen-
ery, 09, of New York City; T. Carlton Waters, ’27,
of New York City, and “Ty” Rauber, ’27, of Wash-
ington, D. C. |

During the summer many alumni may have oc-
casion to visit Lexington. Visitors will always find
a cordial welcome at the Alumni Building. If just
passing through they will find it convenient to make
the building their headquarters during the day.

39

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY ©

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS.

AND

PRINTERS

Office Equipment and Supplies

ROYAL
TYPEWRITERS

DALTON
ADDING MACHINES

SURBER
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

 

Quality

 

Specialists in College Printing
EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

‘Printers
Charlottesville, Va.

Service

Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

 

9 SS eae
é 9 ge

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“I’m glad you *phoned me, Jim!”

Of course he is happy about it. And any classmate of yours will be de-

lighted to have you phone him when you are in his town and have some

time to kill, Particularly if you have not seen each other for years...

This is only one of the pleasant things that the Intercollegiate Alumni

Hotels make possible. At each of these hotels is an index of the resident

alumni of your college. When you are travelling and have a moment to

spare, this index is a treasure trove of information for reviving friend-

ships that mean much to you...Stop at Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels

when you travel. You will enjoy the experience. And you will be

helping the Alumni Office in furthering the work which it is doing.

ape

INTERCOLLEGIATE

Baltimore, Southern

Berkeley, Claremont

Bethlehem, Pa., Bethlehem
Boston, Copley-Plaza

Chicago, Blackstone

Chicago, Windermere

Chicago, Allerton House
Cleveland, Allerton House
Columbus, Neil House

Fresno, Californian

Kansas City, Muehlebach
Lincoln, Lincoln

Los Angeles, Los Angeles Biltmore
Madison, Park

Minneapolis, Nicollet
Montreal, Mount Royal Hotel
New Orleans, Monteleone

New York, Roosevelt

ALUMNI HOTELS

New York, Waldorf-Astoria

Northampton, Mass., Northampton
Oakland, Oakland

Peoria, Ill., Pere Marquette

Philadelphia; Benjamin Franklin
Pittsburgh, Schenley

Portland, Ore., Multnomah
Rochester, Seneca

Sacramento, Sacramento

San Diego, St. James

San Francisco, Palace

Seattle, Olympic

St. Louis, Coronado

Syracuse, Onondaga

Toronto, King Edward

Urbana, Ill., Urbana-Lincoln
Washington, D. C., New Willard
Williamsport, Pa., Lycoming

INTERCOLLEGIATE
ALUMNI EXTENSION

SERVICE, Inc.
18 E. 41st St., New York, N. Y.

Mail this coupon to the Alumni Office

| |
: Kindly send me an Introduction Card to the |
| managers of Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels. ,
| [
: AOE ae. He A eS Ciahs ae

(
mene ae ee ay 4

{
| ee ee States. 4 een
l

A A A a A Ve Sn GD NE Geen GE SRS quan eu om oo aumey Ga au ONE

 

 

