) ‘ =)
r
i i : i
i d
é j
i
¢ j

 

toh
ete l2

“THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

}
f
4
é

 

 

x

4 es
OF
LIBRARY CF

aa .,._. WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSI
Washington and Lee University == uxncron, vA

yee Volome V. NOVEMBER, 1929 Number 4 JUN 2 0 9//

 

 

 

 

ee

_

 

 

 

 

Fart Sports
$2.50 Per Year 25c Per Copy :

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ser ce oe a koe oe coca ee Aeon er ct enna eee
“ %

q

£

: ‘

   

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

- This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business
at a distance, or of a special professional character. Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-

f the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni o

rectory. Rates on application.

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, 718 and ’22

R. E. MOORE

THOS. F. OGILVIE
AtTTORNEY-AT-LAW

AYTTORNEY-AT-LAW
DoucLas, OsEAR & DovucLas

AYTTORNEY-AT-LAW _
103 Guarantee Trust Bldg., Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.,
Bluefield, W. Va.

Atlantic City, N. J.

Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

 

 

 

& : :
Walter E. McDougle, LL.B., ’91
PHILIP P. GIBSON, LawveEr | Robert B. McDougle, B.A., 17, LL.B., ’20
General practice in all State and McDOUGLE and McDOUGLE
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE :
| A'TTORNEYS-AT-LAW

Federal Courts
25-27-29 Citizens National Bank Building

 

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg.,

Huntington, West Virginia
Parkersburg, W. Va.

ee |
PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713 |

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ArtorNEY at LAW

Citrus Exchange Building, Avrorney at LAW
Peoples Bank Building, 811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

Lynchburg, Virginia

Se

Tampa, Florida

 

W. H. Jackson, 08 J. W. Dupres, ’21

 

James EF. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E.. Smitherman

 

 

Compliments of the President of the
THIS SPACE AVAILABLE cant Wie SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
Law OFFICES |
EK. C. CAFFREY, ‘09 Commercial National Bank Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana : ‘

 

 

 

 

GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL

5 ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DIcE CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN

Attorneys at Law : . |
General practice in the courts of the ATTORNEY AT Law Lewisburg, W. Va. i

District of Columbia and Federal a "

Departments , Suite 881 Mills Building OB des. Petncipal
. CS ee an Francisco, California
Associate Income Tax Specialists : S a su if 08 Assistant Principal
f

 

 

 

1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10
General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company \

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati :

 

W. and L,., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually
Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

 

 

 

CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
Editorial Re ee 5 Greek Palaces ee ee 13-14
The Year, Gallege Opens. o.. 2... es Bk 6 Athletics—Squad 1929, Cam Homecomine. 1518
Adiinistration< (silts. 7505). 26 Ve / :
conga | : @ gomi—Plks Ruler. P: 2 Gibgou........7. 19-20.

Nietorsbilia, Faculty. 0.5. 6.426 0. ee 8
| ee ns ee 24-26

Preciteats. Messave 5 6.522. -228. 06s 2
Bae acd Old Shoes’..2.4...7 2. : 26

News of Fifty and Twenty-Five Years Ago .... 10
Siadent ee ae 11 ety sheeeeee 27
ltaprovements: 220... 6625 ae pe oe eee 12 Se 28-30

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

Seco? BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON

(Prices on application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

 

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager : 7 Lexington, Virginia

 

 

RHARDT

JACOB
. EBE

AND TODAY
L.
C

H. L. Wittiams

GENE WHITE
J
D

M. M. Sprout,
T. J. Tayzor

<
ec
[x]
cm.
DY
Lr]
~
Lo
O
v)
oe
<
es
WN)

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
E. C. Carrrey, President E.L. Grauam, Jr., Treasurer VeERBON FE. Kemp, Editor

 

Vor. V NOVEMBER, 1929 No. 4

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

 

WELCOME TO CY YOUNG

As we go to press, we hear that Harry K. (Cy) Young, formerly of Huntington, West
Virginia, has been appointed by the Athletic Association of the University to succeed Eddie
Parks Davis as Coach of the Freshman Athletic Team. Eddie Parks has recently resigned
this job to take a position with the Steves Sash and Door Company in Wichita Falls, Texas.
Cy will also serve as Alumni Ce ae succeeding Verbon E. Kemp in that important po-
sition.

Young is known as the most outstanding athlete ever turned out at Washington and
Lee, and the only man ever to captain four major sports’ teams during his stay here. Be-
ing a most accomplished and versatile athlete, he was captain of the football, baseball, basket-
ball, and track teams between the years 1913 and 1917. Cy played halfback on the South-
ern Championship, an undefeated grid machine of 1915, and for two or three years led the
Blue and White gridders in scoring. He played forward and guard in basketball and led the
scoring on the Southern Championship Five for 1917. Cy has lived most of the time since
leaving here at Helena, Arkansas. He has coached Freshman football and basketball at Wil-
liam and Mary for two years and has a most successful record there. Cy was not only an
outstanding athlete, but was one of the most popular men on the campus. He is of the
‘inspirational type who will appeal to the undergraduate and his fellow-alumni alike. His
choice is undoubtedly a happy one.

PRESIDENT SEEKING

Able President Henry Louis Smith, within a year of the retirement age limit of seventy
years, announced his intention to retire July 1, 1928.

The University Board of Trustees recalled cne time president George H. Denny, President
of the University of Alabama. Dr. Denny investigated; felt that his precarious health would
not permit acceptance.

4, A special committee of alumni with Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson as chairman and a faculty
committee were invited to confer with the Trustee’s committee on the choice of Dr. Smith’s
| successor.

i | Trustee John S$. Munce of Richmond, chairman of the board’s committee was claimed by

death. His successor, Trustee Hugh B. Sproul, 91, as chairman of the board’s president-seeking
committee died suddenly September 5.

President Smith was asked to delay his retirement until his successor could be chosen. Dr.
Smith generously agreed to remain in office until January 1, 1930.

Unauthorized reports emanated from Lexington announcing the probable choices of Dr.
Wm. M. Brown, 714, Virginia Governor H. F. Byrd and Dr. Robert H. Tucker; were pub-
lished in various newspapers of the State on different occasions.

Throughout the period committee members have labored unceasingly, have carefully exam-
ined the qualifications of a large number of prospects, have given consideration to every ex-
pression and recommendation.

January Ist and President Smith’s retirement approaches. The office still seeks the man.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE YEAR

Numerous improvements to buildings and grounds
were made during the summer.

The A. T. O. and Phi Delta Theta Fraternity
houses were completed and the Sigma Nu _ house
started.

ek ee

An unusual number of alumni visited or called at

Lexington and registered at the Alumni Building.

*K OK ook

The football squad reported early and settled down

to stiff preliminary drills under the direction of new

Coach Oberst.

=e

Nine hundred students were reported as registered
for the 180th session of Washington and Lee, when
the opening formalities were completed.

* se x

The deaths of Hon. Hugh B. Sproul, 91, trustee,
chairman of the Board’s presidential committee and
member of the executive committee and of Dr. F. L.
Riley, professor of history, shocked and_ grieved

Lexington and the University.
- ee

The football team entered their fall playing

schedule, won games played with Lynchburg College,
North Carolina State and St. Johns, lost to Kentucky,
West Virginia, Tennessee and V. P. I., looked for-
ward to the homecoming game with the University of
Virginia Saturday, November 16th.

The Board of Trustees met, received gifts, elected
Louis $. Epes, ’08, to their membership, announced
that no decision had been reached from their delibera-
tions on the choice of a president to succeed. Dr.

Henry Louis Smith, retiring.

Judge Wm. A. Bell, 95, one time trustee, was ap-
pointed alumni secretary pro tem, served two months,

resigned because of ill health. This office also seeks a

man.
x *

The Faculty studied reports on regulation of stu-
dent automobile ownership and operation, decided
that W. & L. students must secure parental consent,
must register their cars with the dean.

i.

Alumni met in Richmond, Va. and New York City,
carried on the business of their sucessful and en-
thusiastic local associations.

oe &

Homecoming day with two football games, a
luncheon and the annual meeting of the Washington
and Lee Alumni Association, Inc., attracted many to-
ward Lexington Saturday, November 16th.

COLLEGE OPENS

1749:

Stern and stalwart youth abandoned ploughshare
and pioneer axe, donned bear-skin and buck-skin,
shouldered defensive muskets, trudged ambitious
miles to the rude building that was Augusta Academy
in 1749; became the first college students in the rising
Empire of the West.

1929:

Products of axe-hewn, musket-freed civilization
modern youth wheeled ambitious miles from every
compass point to the storied buildings that are Wash-
ington and Lee University in 1929; matriculated 900
strong, for instruction during the 180th session.

Orientation:

No longer part and parcel of previous adolescent
experience modern college life demands orientation
preparatory to induction. Instructive directors to
novitiates were Dr. R. W. Dicky, ’10, Dr. J. L. Howe,
Coach Forest Fletcher, Dr. J. J. Murray, R. N
Latture, 16, Dean W. H. Moreland, ’06, and Dean
H. D. Campbell, ’82. Silent but effective orientators
were the Lee Chapel and its priceless gem, the recum- —
bent statue; the spacious lawns, the majestic old
buildings, the campus customs in evidence. More
factual and specific were the psychological tests.

Matriculation:

Thus were filled the days until Friday, Sept. 13th,
when students, old and new, assembled at the gym-
nasium for the formal opening. The selection of
courses, registration, and the payment of fees kept
professors and officials busy, completed the formali-
ties of admission and qualified every entrant for pos-
sible fraternity membership.

Fraternities:

“Rushed” since making their decision to enter
Washington and Lee, freshmen reigned briefly in the
nineteen Lexington houses symbolized by letters of
the Greek alphabet in varied combinations. Ere the
first two weeks of the anticipated college life had
passed nearly two hundred wearers of the traditional
blue cap were sorted and labeled by lapel buttons
symbolic of their pledged fraternal affiliation.

Improvements:

Students, past the freshman stage in college life, —
recuperated from the strain of re-settlement and fra-
ternal rushing, noted the new curbs and walks to the
gymnasium, to the library and between the main
buildings and the Chapel, the Chapel and the memo-
rial gate; noted the painters’ and plasterers’ freshen-
ing touch within the college buildings.

 

Ss

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

College Life:

The gymnasium and the athletic field became bee
hives of activity. Candidates for freshman and var-
sity teams worked diligently under more diligent
coaches. Betimes victrolas moaned and wailed, the
post office was infested in premature anticipation ;
tales of summer experiences were exchanged, student
publications were brought to life, student societies and
organizations began their seasonal functioning—the
180th session was in full swing.

ee ee

- ADMINISTRATION
SUMMER:

The routine of student applications for admission
occupied President Henry Louis Smith, Treasurer
Paul M. Penick, Dean H. D. Campbell and Registrar
E. S. Mattingly. President Smith wrote bulletins,
took a short vacation. Mr. Penick directed the num-
erous additions to buildings and grounds with the
able assistance of Prof. Hale Houston, ’92, and Prof.
R, W.. Dickey, 10.

BOARD:

At the fall meeting of the Washington and Lee
board of trustees in Lexington Saturday, Oct. 12,
Louis S. Epes, chairman of the state corporation com-
mission was elected a trustee to fill one of the two va-
cancies on the board. Filling of the other vacancy
was postponed. |

The board continued the committee on the nomina-
tion of a president to succeed Dr. Henry Louis Smith,

-resigned. Dr. William McC. White was made a mem-

ber of the committee to succeed Hugh B. Sproul, who
died recently at Staunton. Other members on the
committee are George W. St. Clair, John W. Davis,
William A. McCorkle and James R. Caskie. As Dr.
Smith’s connection as president ends January 1, the
committee was urged to redouble its efforts in making
a selection from the large number of names before
the board. |

Trustees present at the meeting Saturday were
George W. St. Clair, rector; William A. Anderson,
William McC. White, Harrington Waddell, William
A. McCorkle, James R. Caskie, George Bolling Lee,
W. L. Carson, Newton D. Baker, George C. Peery
and William McC. Martin. It was the first meeting
attended by Mr. Baker and Mr. Peery since their
election as trustees.

NEW TRUSTEE:

Louis S. Epes, ’08, received his Bachelor’s degree
at Hampden-Sydney, taught school for five years, en-
tered the law school at Washington and Lee, received
his degree from “Daddy” Burks in 1908, practiced
law at Blackstone, Va., was appointed to the State

Corporation Commission by Governor H. F. Byrd,

 

Louts S. Epss, ’08
New Trustee

was elected to Phi Beta Kappa at Washington and
Lee last year, looms potently in Virginia governmental
affairs.

ge
7

GIFTS

CHAPEL:

New tiling for the Chapel vestibule floor, marble
covering for Chapel steps, new window panes, stone
window tablets, a marker and a marble inscription
plate constituted the gifts by the United Daughters of
the Confederacy presented in formal exercises by
Mrs. W. C. N. Marchant, and received in behalf of
the University by Hon. Newton D. Baker, 94. :

Secretary Baker expressed the satisfaction of the
University at the sympathy and practical help ac-
corded the institution by the United Daughters of the
Confederacy in the preservation of the memorials and
tomb of General Robert E. Lee. He recalled that
during the past summer much of his time had been
spent in motoring through England; each day he vis-
ited castles, abbeys and cathedrals, and in all of them
he found ‘memorials of men who had served their
country well and left behind enduring reputation for
high character. It was a multitude of such men, he
thought, that had made that little country master of
half the world. The men he thought were multiplied
from generation to generation because the youth of
the land in passing through it were ever confronted
with memorials of the great and the good in English-

es

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

men. He drew a lesson to be learned by Washington
and Lee students from their contact with this tomb
and chapel. It was an ever present reminder of the
great man whose body lay in the crypt of the mauso-
leum. <A student going forth from the University
would be better equipped for victory in life’s’ battles
if he carried in his mind the memory of the chapel
rather than the classroom; if he went out from the
institution with a spirit caught from the life of Robert
F... Lee:

Mr. Baker, continuing, said while he would leave
untouched in any way the chapel which Lee built, he
would favor building behind it a second chapel with
a view also therefrom of the Lee statue so as to en-
able all the students of the University to be seated
in view of the statue. Such a proposal he thought
would meet the approval of General Lee.

Secretary Baker was followed by James R. Caskie,
06, a member of the board of trustees, who read a
resolution from the board expressing the thanks of
the University to the Daughters of the Confederacy
for, their improvement to the mausoleum.

LIBRARY:

Fifteen hundred books, $5,000 as a bequest, and
$25,000 of the residue of an estate, were bequeathed
to the Washington and Lee University library by T.
H. H. Patterson of Philadelphia.

Washington and Lee University and Washington
and Jefferson College, in part, fell heir to the entire
library of Mr. Patterson and also part of his fortune.
This is the largest collection of rare books ever re-
ceived by the library here. —

Half the books are in special bindings and are ex-
quisite examples of bookmaker’s art. The books show
little usage and are a valuable asset to the university
here, Miss Blanche McCrum, librarian, stated.

ENDOWMENT:

One-fifth of the $50,000 trust fund left to his
widow by late trustee H. B. Sproul, 91, was willed
by him to the Trustees of Washington and Lee after
her death. No stipulations as to the use of the fund
were made in his generous provision for Washington
and Lee.

¢

MEMORABILIA
CHAPEL RECORDS:

Miss Nettie Stuart, custodian of Lee chapel and
tomb, reported a registration of 14,990 visitors dur-
ing the month of August. ‘This number is in excess
of any ever reported for any one month. The report
stated that for three days in August the number of
visitors at the chapel exceeded 700. On two days the
number exceeded 600, and on nine days it exceeded
500. The list of those registered included outside of

the United States, residents of England, Scotland,
Ireland, France, Canada, Japan and China.

In the last twelve months, 52,000 persons visited
the Lee Memorial chapel, figures announced by Mrs.
Mildred Lee Francis, U. D. C. custodian, show. ‘This
is 13,000 more than visited the shrine during any
other year since it was built in 1867, while General
Robert E. Lee was president.

BOULDER:

A boulder was unveiled on the Midland Trail seven
miles from Lexington, by the Colonial Dames in com-
memoration of the Indian massacre of the pioneers
of Kerr’s Creek. The first massacre occurred Octo-
ber 10, 1759, and the second, July 17, 1763.

Prof. Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’21 of the English de-
partment of Washington and Lee was the speaker of
the afternoon.

HISTORICAL MOVIE:

Scenes of 1831 were enacted on the McCormick
farm, near Lexington, as clicking movie cameras re-
corded farm operations, as of the time when Cyrus
McCormick experimented with his reaper there, for
the International Harvester Co.

GOSHEN PASS:

_ Proponents of natural beauty and opponents of util-
ity were stalemated in their fight against the construc-
tion of a power dam in Goshen Pass when the State
Corporation Commission, Louis S. Epes, ’08, chair-
man, ruled that they had no jurisdiction in the mat-
ter; proposed to carry the question of jurisdiction to
the Virginia Supreme Court.

\
[se

FACULTY
VACATIONERS:

During the past summer Dr. FE. F. Shannon, Prof.
of English, taught and Miss Blanche McCrum, Libra-
rian, studied at the University of Virginia. Dr. J.
Lewis Howe, Prof. of Chemistry, vacationed at New-
buryport, Mass. Prof. John A. Graham, ’11, sunned
in Mississippi. Dr. W. D. Hoyt, Biology, and Prof.
Wm. Coan, Accounting, were at Gloucester, Mass.
Dr. J. S. Moffatt taught at the Harrisonburg, Va.
Teacher’s College. Dr. B. D. Easter, Romance lin-
guist and C. EK. L. Gill, "22, business lawyer, toured
abroad. Dr. W. T. Lyle, Engineer, motored north
and east, Dr- H. VY. Shelly, ancient linguist, . west.
George Irwin, ’20, taught at the University of Texas
and R. N. Latture, ’16, studied at the University of
Chicago. Dr. Robert H. Tucker, Economist, worked
in Richmond on a report for the Virginia State Cham-
ber of Commerce. Dr. Wm. M. Brown, 714, investi-
gated the mysteries of politics preparatory to his race
for the Virginia governorship. |

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DEPARTURES AND ARRIVALS:

Succeeding Dr. Wm. M. Brown, ’14, resigned, Dr.
Walter A. Flick, ’20, was appointed acting Head of
the Department of Education and Psychology.

Judge Wm. A. Bell, ’95, one-time University Trus-
tee was elected Alumni Secretary pro tem, succeeding
Verbon EF. Kemp, ’20, resigned.

In the department of Economics and Commerce M.
O. Phillips, A.B., M.A., was appointed to succeed
Prof. L. W. Adams, resigned.

L. C. Helderman, recent Ph.D. from Wisconsin, re-
turned from a year’s leave to the History Depart-
ment. Ollinger Crenshaw, ’25, was granted leave of
absence and A. W. Moger, appointed instructor in
History.

Associate Professor H. Gray Funkhouser, ’22, goes
to Columbia for graduate study in Mathematics on
leave. R. W. Royston, A.B. ’23, will serve in his
stead.

A. U. Moore of Cornell was added to the depart-

ment of English and Public Speaking.
Eugene Oberst became full time Athletic Coach to

succeed former football coach J. P. Herron, resigned.

Munsey Gleaton, A.B., B.D., succeeded C. H. Pat-
terson, ’19, as Secretary of the student Y. M. C. A.

GOLD KEY:

President Henry Louis Smith was presented with
a gold key in recognition of his distinguished service
by the Graham-Lee Literary Society on October 12.

PROMOTIONS:

By action of the Board of Trustees associate pro-
fessor W. G. Bean was elected full professor of His-
tory and acting head of the History department dur-
ing the lamented illness of Prof. Riley. Asst. Prof.
Frank J. Gilliam, ’17, was elected associate professor
of English.

SHANNON’S CRITICAL CANNON:

What critics describe as “a marked contribution to'

literature’ has been made by Dr. Edgar F. Shannon,

professor of English at Washington and Lee, in his.

book published recently, entitled, “Chaucer and the
Roman Poets.”

The book, the seventh volume in the series of Har-
vard studies in comparative literature, secured favor-
able comment in a review published in the literary
supplement of the London Times in the issue of
September 26.

The Times lauds Dr. Shannon for “his ability to
take pains” in the accumulation of material and it pre-
dicts that his work will become “a cannon of criticism”
for Chaucerian sources of material.

In the preface, Dr. Shannon gives credit to Dr. De
La Warr B. Easter, professor of romance languages
at Washington and Lee, for interpreting the spirit of

some old French passages, and to Professor J. O.

 

 

 

 

 

Presipent Henry Louis SMITH
Girl Grads Too Numerous

Lofberg, formerly of Washington and Lee, and now
of Oberlin College, Ohio, for aid in solving problems

in connection with Ovid’s use of poetic forms.

Dr. Shannon received his bachelor of arts degree
at Centre College, Danville, Ky., in 1893, his master
of arts degree at Harvard University in 1900 and his
doctor of philosophy at the same institution in 1912.
He has been professor of English at Washington and
Lee University since 1914.

o,
eS ee

AN OPPORTUNITY FOR YOU
PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE:

To Every Alumnus of Washington and Lee:

As most of the alumni know, I postponed the date
of my retirement from July Ist to January Ist at the
urgent request of the Board of Trustees, and I am
much pleased to announce that the new session opened
with a very full attendance not only of the old men
but of a better prepared freshman class than I believe
we have ever admitted. |

As a special message to our loyal alumni in this is-
sue of the MaGazINE let me remind them that the post-
war rush of American young men into the colleges of
the United States has definitely subsided, scores of
our leading institutions matriculating fewer young
men last September than the year before. Although

the girl-graduates of our much enlarged high school

system are still far too numerous to be taken care of
by our colleges for women, the pre-war competition
of our colleges and universities for men students has
been resumed with its old-time vigor.

The maintenance, therefore, of our present at-
tendance at Washington and Lee in competition with
so many institutions offering free tuition or scholar-

 

 

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ships to almost everyone will certainly prove at
Washington and Lee a difficult problem for my suc-
cessor. I am, therefore, in this issue of the MAGAZINE
urging every alumnus, wherever he may be located,
to appoint himself a committee of one to recommend
his Alma Mater, solicit and secure the finest young
men in his reach for her halls, and persuade every
thoughtful parent that to select the nearest or the
cheapest school for his son rather than the best is a
case of misplaced and disastrous economy.

Assuring you that I will applaud every effort you
make in this line of action, will keep in touch with the
progress of the institution, and will be specially in-
terested in the numbers matriculated next Septem-
ber, I am :
Yours most fraternally,

Henry Louis SMITH,
President.

o,
ee

TAX REPORT

A review of the present tax system in Virginia
was covered in a report to the Virginia State Cham-
ber of Commerce by Dr. Robert H. Tucker, Prof.
of economics and business administration at Wash-
ington and Lee. Dr. Tucker is chairman of the
State Chamber’s committee on taxation. His report
was made at a special meeting of the Chamber’s taxa-
tion division Thursday, Nov. 7th, and is the product
of much intensive work during the summer. Dr.
Tucker’s report on taxation, simplification and
economy in government and workmen’s compensa-
tion legislation have had a profound influence upon
Virginia and other southern states during the past
decade.

Se ge
eo

NEWS OF FIFTY YEARS AGO

(From the Lexington Gazette, June 26, 1879)
The Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee
University, at its session on the 24th inst., elected
Judge Francis T. Anderson of the Court of Appeals,
Rector of the University, to fill the vacancy caused
by the death of Dr. Alfred Leyburn.

 

The Law Class did the handsome and appropriate
thing when its members presented little Willie Kirk-
patrick Graves with a beautiful solid silver card-tray,

on Tuesday last. This was at once a testimonial of —

their regard and admiration of an able, diligent, and
faithful teacher, and also a thoughtful and appropriate
way in which to testify that regard.

The tray is repousse work, inscribed on the top with
the monogram “W. K. G.,” and on the reverse, “From
the Law Class of 1879.” It is beautifully chased
and much appreciated.

The Commencement Exercises were appropriately
ushered in with a handsome entertainment given at
the house of a member of the Board (Judge Wm.
McLaughlin) on Thursday night last, and by a Con-
cert Friday evening at the Chapel, for the benefit of
the Lee Mausoleum Fund. Both occasions were
highly enjoyed by those so fortunate as to be present.

 

On Wednesday morning last a special meeting of
the Alumni was held in the University Chapel. An
election of officers for the ensuing year was held, re-
sulting as follows: H. St. G. Tucker, president; H.
1, Dufour, vice-president; Prof. C. A. Graves, sec-
retary; J. L. Campbell, treasurer. Lawrence Rust,
Professor of Greek in Kenyon College, Ohio, and a
young alumnus of this university, was elected as the
orator for the next commencement. A committee was
appointed to arrange for a general reunion of alumni
on the occasion of the unveiling of Valentine’s statue
of Gen. Lee. As the time of the completion of the
Mausoleum is uncertain, no definite day was fixed
upon.

S
i °° Sno

TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO
(From Lexington Gazette, June 29, 1904)

Examinations were held in Wytheville last week
before the Court of Appeals of applicants to practice
law. Among the number of applicants: were eleven
Washington and Lee University men who passed suc-
cessfully as follows:

F. F. Bouchelle, Maurice A. Breckenridge, Roy C.
Cromer, John H. Day, James W. Harman, B. Mer-
cer Hartman, Waller C. Hardy, A. L. Jones, Charles
Ss. McNulty, E. W. Poindexter, Stanley Scott.

Se

LARGE ATTENDANCE at W. L,. U. SepremsBer 14, 1904

The attendance at Washington and Lee University
has reached over 280. Of this number there are over
130 new men. The prospects are that the enrollment
will go beyond 325.

The Lees Dormitory will be completed this week
and it will doubtless be filled to its capacity of from
75 to 90 students, as there seems to be demand for the
rooms.

The Engineering Hall is now the home of the de-
partment under Professor Le Conte Stevens, and the
building is modern and complete throughout, and
well adapted to the needs of the respective depart-
ments. |

The heating plant is now being installed. . Besides
the University buildings, the homes of Professors
James A. Quarles and W. S. Currell will also be fur-
nished heat from the plant.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 4

AUTO OWNERSHIP:

Upon recommendation by the Board of Trus-
tees the Faculty appointed a committee, F. J. Gil-
liam, 717, Chairman, to investigate the prohibition
or regulation of student ownership of automobiles
by other colleges. ‘The Committee visited Princeton
and Swarthmore, corresponded with sixty-five col-
leges and universities; reported on those colleges with-
out restrictions, with partial restrictions and with
complete prohibition of student ownership.

Their exhaustive and illuminating report showed
that of the institutions investigated, forty-six had no
restrictions because conditions did not warrant them
or made them impracticable; six restricted student
auto ownership to various upper classes, to students
making high scholastic grades, to students residing
outside of college dormitories or to upper classmen
with parental consent; twelve exercised complete
prohibition.

Of those exercising complete prohibition, three
did not report fully, one had nullified the rule, an-
other found it unsatisfactory; the remainder re-
ported satisfaction; enforcement practicable. In ad-
dition, Princeton, carefully observed during personal
visits, reported acceptance and cooperation by the
student body, approval by parents, reluctant approval
by liberal faculty members, reduction of accidents,
improved scholarship. :

The W. & L. Faculty studied these facts, looked
torward the best regulations applicable to Washington
and Lee conditions, decided that every student must
have written parental consent and must register their
cars with the dean before being licensed to own or
operate their cars in Lexington.
proximately two weeks was allowed for making such
arrangements for the present session.

°

STUDENT BODY
NATIVITY:

Representatives from thirty-seven states, the Dis-
trict of Columbia, and four foreign countries are in-
cluded in the 900 students registered at Washington
and Lee for the 180th session.

Virginia, with 187 students, leads the list and New
York, with sixty-six men, is second.

Following is the registration by states: Alabama,
43: Arkansas, 27; California, 3; Connecticut, 11;
Delaware, 1; District of Columbia, 14; Florida, 48;
Georgia, 23; Illinois, 27; Indiana, 2; Kentucky, 44;
Louisiana, 13; Maine, 1; Maryland, 19; Massachusetts,
4; Michigan, 10; Mississippi, 17; Missouri, 21; Mon-
tana, 3; Nebraska, 1; New Hampshire, 1; New Jersey,
38; New Mexico, 1; New York, 66; North Carolina,
25; Ohio, 35; Oklahoma, 10; Oregon, 1; Pennsyl-

A period of ap-

vania, 53; Rhode Island, 1; South Carolina, 11;
Tennessee, 35; Texas, 41; Vermont, 2; Virginia, 187;
West Vein 49, and Wisconsin, 3.
Also, Brazil, 3; China, 1; Cuba, 1, and Mas 1.
Of these Seats, 338 are from above the Mason
and Dixon line while 514 are from below.

COLD CHECKS:

Under a new plan of application the attention of
the student executive committee will be called to stu-
dents’ cold checks by the banks and not the merchants,
as has been the custom in the past.

In this way, every bad check, written on a Lexing-
ton bank, will be reported to the committee direct. It
is to be assumed that bad checks drawn on out-of-
town banks will be reported by the merchant cashing
them.

The penalties for violation of the rule, remains
substantially the same. Any man who intentionally
passes a cold check will be asked to withdraw from
the University. Any student who carelessly passes a _
cold check faces punishment at the hands of the
executive committee. He will be warned for the
first offense and given twenty-four hours’ notice to
make the check good. For the second offense, he
is to be treated likewise and also placed on probation.
For the third offense he will be asked to leave the
University. The committee reserves the right to in-
flict such penalties as each case seems to merit.

GOATS:

The complete breaking down of sectionalism at the
University, of which General Robert E. Lee was pres-
ident after the War between the States, is indicated by
the fact that of the 193 men pledged to fraternities at
Washington and Lee, eighty-three were Northerners.
This is the largest number of Northerners ever pledged
to fraternities here in one year. Sixty years ago, only
three Northern men registered at Washington and
Lee.

Thirty of the 110 Southern fraternity pledges were
Virginians.

FROSH:

John Keith Clark, Ridgewood, N. J., was elected
president of the freshman class at Washington and
Lee University at the annual class elections yester-
day. Howell D. Lamar, Richmond, N. Y.,
elected vice-president.

Was

Other freshman class officers elected are: Albert
D. Rainey, Irwin, Pa., secretary and treasurer : Irving
P. Summerville, Ridgewood, N. J., historiaty
Samuel Steves, San Antonio, Texas,
mitteeman,

and
executive-com-

 

 

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

IMPROVEMENTS:

There has been little building during the year on
the campus, but much repairing and freshening up of
buildings. Doremus gymnasium has come in for much
attention. ‘he white brick walls on the main floor
have been painted as high as a man’s head, the rest of
the walls underneath the balcony receiving fresh white
paint. Paint has also been applied in the locker rooms
and to the exterior of the building. The main floor has
been treated and restained. In Tucker Hall and New-
comb Hall, the walls have all been renewed and re-
stained and the interior of the buildings been
thoroughly cleaned.

On the outside, under the supervision of Profes-
sor Hale Houston, a number of new concrete side-
walks have been laid. A new walk has been put
down along the concrete roadway leading from the
front of Doremus gymnasium to Washington street,
with a curb between the road and walk. This was
badly needed to protect pedestrians attending games
and social functions. Steps are being put down from
the walk over the parapet to Washington street. A
new concrete roadway with curbing has been built
around the west side of the Carnegie library. A walk
will also be laid from the main building to the new
chemistry building in the rear.

A very pleasing improvement has been made in the
approaches to Lee chapel. Hitherto, with the exception
to the main walkway running through the length of
the campus, pedestrians have approached the chapel
over walkways made of crushed stone, the original, as
old as the chapel itself, and the walks hardly kept up
to the old standard. These have been replaced by
smooth granolithic walks. They include the broad
walk, eight feet wide, from the main building to the
chapel, over which the procession passes into the
chapel at commencement; the walk leading from the
chapel down to’ the main vehicle entrance, now the
World War memorial gate; and the walk on the other
side of the chapel going down toward the old Blue
hotel.

Wilson athletic field presents a good appearance as
the football season opens. A heavy, thick sod covers
the gridiron, and the new bridge will be used for the
first time to help handle the football crowds. It will
be needed this year for the Virginia game which is
played here on the same afternoon that V. M. I: en-
gages Maryland here in the morning.

Improvements have been made in the old field house
at Walson field under the direction of Graduate Man-
ager R. A. Smith. The building was used as the
gymnasium while the Doremus gymnasium was being
built, and for several years has been without windows
or floor and has not been used. A new floor, win-
dows, and fresh paint bring it back into use.

NEIGHBORS:

After 45 years service which carried him to all parts
of the globe under the U. S. flag, Gen. John A. Lejeune
came to neighbor V. M. I. from the U. S. Marine
Corps; succeeds able Gen. W. H. Cocke, resigned as
Superintendent.

BRIDGE:

Connecting the barracks and parade grounds with ©

their athletic field construction of a concrete bridge
over the lower roadway has been completed, affords
easy passage, eliminates crossing dangers, provides a
beautiful addition by way of Italian terraces and em-
bankments to the rapidly developing south entrance

of V. M. I.
WANTED:

Being a summary of the wishes of many alumni
for Washington and Lee.

ee
An auditorium that will seat the entire student body

and that will in some way provide the impressive
atmosphere of the Lee Chapel.

* OK OK

A park at the rear (N. W.) of the University
grounds that will take advantage of the natural hill-
side beauty and the brook below.

~ * =
A college of the liberal arts and sciences—only.

* OK OK

More professors of southern birth or background,
preferably Washington and Lee alumni.

Ake:

A full-time year-round competent publicity man.
x

A winning football team.
x Rs

Fewer “collegiates” and less “collegiate life’ on the
campus.
oS
An alumni and executive secretary.
oe O48
A president.
+ + +

An adequate endowment.

vtec seem

Send ttle ace

 

 

 

GREEK PALACES
“Phi Delts and ATO’s”

 

 

 

 

 

14 : THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

GREEK PALACES:

Until recent years fraternities at Washington and
Lee were content to rent private Lexington homes,
label them with Greek letters and refer to them pos-
sessively as “The House.” Now the College Greeks
are building their own houses—houses beautifully de-
signed for their particular use that add materially to
the beauty of the campus and community.

Most recently built are the Alpha Tau Omega, Phi
Delta Theta and Sigma Nu houses.

Under the supervision of Prof. C. E. L. Gill, ’22,
and an efficient Committee of Chapter Alumni the
A T O house was completed during. the early sum-
mer. It is located at the Corner of Main and Hous-
ton Streets just beyond the Stonewall Jackson Ceme-
tery toward Natural Bridge; is characterized by a spa-

cious corner yard, which the beautiful colonial house ©

crowns at a commanding elevation. It is of red co-
lonial brick with imposing colonial columns and_pro-
vides living quarters, lounge, living and dining rooms
and a fraternal chapter meeting hall.

Just off the campus at the Memorial Gate in the
University Fraternity Park the new home of the Phi
Delta Thetas has been completed. It faces Henry
Street which runs from Main Street to Jefferson and
the Memorial gateway to the campus; adjoins the
Beta Theta Pi House. The house is a three-story
colonial of brick and tile with slate roof: contains
lounge, chapter and storage rooms in the basement,
living, dining and matron’s rooms on the first floor,
and seventeen bedrooms with baths on the two up-
per floors. Its construction has been directed by E.

'S. Mattingly, ’20, and a corps of Lexington alumni

and students. | |

Now under construction across the street from the
new Phi Delta Theta house is the new home of the
Sigma Nu fraternity. It adjoins the new Phi Kappa
Sigma house and is similar to the Phi Delta Theta
house in architecture and design. Construction is di-
rected by R. A. Smith, ’16, and a chapter building
committee. Occupation by the Sigma Nu chapter is
expected by January Ist.

The new houses listed above and pictured on the
preceding page follow such houses as the Phi Gamma
Delta (old Nelson house), the Delta Tau Delta (Lee
Avenue), the Beta Theta Pi, and the Phi Kappa Sig-
ma houses which have been built or remodeled during
the past five years. In addition to their beauty they
provide increased housing facilities, thus relteving the
crowded dormitory situation.

The fraternity park section at the Memorial Gate.

has been further benefitted by the razing of the Negro
Odd Fellows Hall at the intersection of Main and Jef-
ferson Streets. The old Henry Street Opera House,
Ol tate a negro pool room, has been purchased by

a

the University and may some day give way to a
more attractive building at the Corner of Main and
Henry Streets. The University campus is thus ex-
panding to Main Street by way of the fraternity park,
may some day be entered by impressive gateways from
Main and Washington Streets.

FATAL ACCIDENT:

James Winston Watson, son of Mr. and Mrs.
James A. Watson, of Youngstown, O., died Monday
morning at 12:50 o’clock in Jackson hospital, Lex-
ington, from injuries received early Sunday morning
in an automobile accident.

Young Watson in company with Richard B. Rouse,
a senior at Washington and Lee from Marion, Va.,
left Lexington at 2 o’clock Sunday morning for Lynch-
burg. He was driving an old Ford car. At about 3
o'clock they climbed the slope of the mountain just
beyond Glasgow and the car went over the bank at
the narrow curve in the road and down the steep moun-
tain side 125 feet. Watson’s skull was crushed and
he never regained consciousness.

A conductor on a Chesapeake and Ohio freight
train, which was passing when the accident occurred,
saw the car go over the bank. - He notified Siler’s
garage when. the train reached Natural Bridge and the
boys were brought to the Lexington hospital. Rouse
was not injured and left the hospital the same day.
Dr. C. C. Coleman, of Richmond, was called to Lex-
ington Sunday evening, but could not relieve Watson’s
condition.

Young Watson was a member of the Phi Gamma
Delta fraternity and was registered in the academic
school. He was born at Youngstown, July 6, 1910,
and was nineteen years of age. His parents and a
brother and sister-in-law reached Lexington Sunday.
He leaves one other younger brother.

Funeral services were conducted in Lee chapel at
3:45 o’clock Monday afternoon by Rev. Vincent Franks
of the Episcopal church and Rev. J. J. Murray of
the Presbyterian church. Fraternity mates acted as
pallbearers and the entire student body escorted the
remains to the 4 o’clock train which bore them to
Youngstown for burial.

ACCIDENT:

Fred Irons, Jr., of Rockbridge Baths, student at
Washington and Lee, was in Jackson Memorial hos-
pital badly injured as the result of an automobile ac-
cident Tuesday evening at 6 o’clock on the Midland
Trail. Irons is suffering from concussion of the
brain, cuts about the face and a broken collar bone.
He regained consciousness yesterday morning and
his condition is reported favorable.

The accident happened just beyond the Whistle
creek bridge near Snider’s filling station. Irons was

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

riding in a Ford roadster with young Roy Mohler,

traveling toward the mountains. A car in front turned

sharply to the left toward House mountain, and the
Ford crashed into it, turning over several times. Moh-
ler was uninjured. The car was smashed to pieces.

Irons is a freshman at Washington and Lee. He 1s
a son of Mrs. Fred Irons, of Rockbridge Baths, where
the boy was born and reared.

SHOOTING:

Lyncupurc, Oct. 28—Campbell county authorities
have taken charge of the investigation of a shooting
which occurred early last night, three miles from
Lynchburg city limits, in which G. B. Wiltshire, Jr.,
22-year-old Washington and Lee student, was severely
wounded and five other college students—three girls
and two young men—narrowly escaped death under a
fusilage of bullets.

Garland W. Falwell, 30, was arrested in Lynchburg
last night about thirty minutes after the shooting, and
charged with feloniously wounding Wiltshire. He was
released on bond of $5,000 for hearing in county
court. A companion, Lloyd Goff, 24, also of Camp-
bell county, who was charged with being an accom-
plice of Falwell, was freed on bond of $1,000 and is
likewise to be tried in the county.

The party of young people, it is alleged, had stop-
ped at Falwell’s refreshment stand, at the intersec-
tion of Lynchburg-Richmond highway, and a county

highway known as “The Old River Road” when the »

shooting occurred. ‘The young men went into the
store, leaving the girls outside in the car, to wait while
they bought soft drinks.

Wiltshire was attacked by Falwell shortly after en-
tering the store, it is claimed, and was fired upon with
a double-barreled shotgun. Bird shots peppered the
back of his neck and his shoulders, but are not thought
by authorities to have penetrated deeply enough to

cause a.serious wound.

SONG:

Washington and Lee has long needed a representa-
tive hymn. The famed “Swing,” tho unexcelled as a
pep athletic rally, contains little of reverence. Thornton
W. Allen, °12, author and copyright holder of the
“Swing,” offers “The Valley of Virginia” with music
hy himself and words by his father, L. W. Allen, to-
ward filling this need. Permission has been asked for
publication of the words and music in the next issue
of the ALumMNnt MacaziIneE. Be’times those wishing
to try it out may secure copies from the Thornton W.
Allen Co., Publishers, 113 W. 57th St., New York
City. 2

ATHLETICS
FOOTBALL:

In the fall the old grad’s fancy turns to thoughts
of football and homecoming day when ancient rival-
ries are reopened and the question of gridiron supe-
riority is again settled—for a year.

In the beginning it appeared to various and sundry
commentators of the press that the Generals had little
which might encourage new Coach Oberst. ‘True
there were fifteen “letter men” from last year’s var-
sity back for practice ere the opening bells had tolled
the knell of parting vacation. But of this number
only Capt. Bill Hawkins, tackle and Leigh’ Williams,
end, loomed as proven and undisputed assets with
Seligman, guard, Snodgrass, center and T hibodeau
and Eberhardt, halfbacks, as likely associates.

As practice progressed and the green material be-
gan to ripen, sports writers began to sit up and take
notice. ‘Little Monk” Mattox of the famed Mattox
family of college athletics began to show the stuff
that made two older brothers famous at Washington
and Lee (and another at V. P. I.). He is a quarter-
back by trade. Then there was C. E. Tilson, younger
edition of the famous Tex and F. R. Bailey, relative
of the one-time “Penny” Bailey of Huntington, W.
Va., who indicated ability in the tackle profession.
E. P. Bledsoe, son of Dr. EK. P. Bledsoe, 00, returned
to balance the line opposite lanky Leigh Williams and
out of the sophomore ranks a Mitchell and a Martin
developed unexpected drive and power. Withal, un-
der the tutelage of Coach Oberst and Assistant Coach
Hoffman the candidates for varsity berths demon-
strated more steam and stamina that had been in evi-
dence on Wilson field in many a year. The Generals
were conceded a possible place in the gridiron sun—
at long odds. :

As usual the opening game against Lynchburg
Coilege showed little. Against North Carolina State
Mattox, Williams and Thibodeau led the way to a
27-6 victory after a sluggish first half which closed
with the State team in the lead by a lone touchdown
at the mid-whistle. Kentucky completely routed the
Generals in an unexpected fashion. ‘The usual loss
registered against West Virginia after a spirited fight
which constantly threatened the W. Va. goal line, but
failed to materialize but once. As expected, the Ten-
nessee volunteers did all of the scoring in the game
at Roanoke against an unexpectedly listless opposi-
tion. The test of Washington and Lee strength was
set for November 2nd against V. P. I. They flunked
miserably with re-examination November 16th
against the Virginia Cavaliers as'their only hope for
the current season. |

It has been a trial season for new coach, new plays
and new players.

 

 

16

Name

Seligman

Hewson

Bailey
McDonald
Holstein
Rosenberg
Mitchell
Williams, F.
Thibodeau |
Sandifer
Barnett
Nesbitt
Tonsmeire, E..
Hostetter
Taylor, H.
Harris
Martin, G.
McLenahan
Mellon
Wicke

Day
Stemmons

Wilson, B.

_ Devine

Mattox

Cocke

Snodgrass

Jones

Long

Tallyn, W.
Martin

Hawkins (Capt.)

‘Groop

Jacobs
McLaurin
Stevens, FE.
Bledsoe
Morris
Freeman
Jennings
Crossen
Williams, Leigh
Faulkner
Shuchart
Ade
Tilson, T.
Eberhart

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Washington and Lee Squad

Position
Guard .

Full Back
Tackle

Full Back
Guard

Guard

Full Back
Half Back ©
Half Back
Quarter Back
Full Back
Guard
Tackle
Tackle
Center
Guard

Half Back
End

Half Back
Guard

End

Tackle

End

End

Quarter Back
End

Center

Half Back
Center

Left Tackle
Guard
Tackle
Center
Quarter Back
Quarter Back
Full Back
End

End

End

End

End -

End

Half Back
Quarter Back
Half Back
Center

Half Back

1929
Age W eight
Ze 200
19 168
19 193
21 167
ge 165
20 184
20 187
19 150
23 lia
21 132
21 17
19 171
18 212
21 185
17 159
Ze 160
19 160
20 162
18 153
9 166
20 175
19 170
19 164
20 173
18 [Ss
23 165
aa 168
20 150
18 178
21 174
19 190
21 205
20 180
20 156
19 13/
20 189
a 160
18 178
19 168
1g 173
20 183
20 180
20 185
ZI 190
19 124
20 164
Ze 135

Residence

Shaw, Miss.

Newark, N. J.
Huntington, W. Va.

Philadelphia, Pa.
Jacksonville, Fla.
Jacksonville, Fila.

Bozeman, Mont.
Waterville, Me.
Lexington, Ky
Pine Bluff, Ark.
Dallas, Tex.
Biloxi, Miss.
Varnville, S. C.
Newport News, Va.
Staunton, Va.
Baltimore, Md.

Pensacola, Fla.
Norwalk, Conn.
Votes, OkG.
Dallas, Tex.
Mobile, Ala.
Lynchburg,. Va.
Leesville, Va.
Water Valley, Miss.

_ Chattanooga, Tenn.

Batesburg, S. C.
Abiline, Tex.
Scranton, Pa.
Greenville, S. C.
Petersburg, Va.
Fitchburg, Mass.
Staunton, Va.
Helena, Ark.
Elmira, N. Y.
Chicago, Il.
Kenova, W. Va.
Jacksonville, Fla.

St. Louis, Mo.
Norfolk, Va.
Helena, Ark.
York, Pa.

Matador, Tex.
Staunton, Va,

Vr.atW.& Lh.

afin:

NNONANNAWWNHHWWWNNDHD

WNHOANWNHMWWPHRANNFAAPANWBH WFAN W

BN NW ND W W D

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

GAMES PLAYED:
Lynchburg College:

A. varied attack carried on by two or three com-
binations of Washington and Lee players smothered
Lynchburg College in the season’s opener. Every
likely candidate was given opportunity to display his
wares, and did it—score: W. & L., 58; Lynchburg
College, 0.

N. C. State:

During the first half N. C. State stopped the un-
coordinate offensive of the Generals, broke through
their defensive for a touchdown. End Leigh Wil-
liams, State Nemesis in the W. & L.-N. C. State game
last year, and “Monk” Mattox, sophomore quarter-
back, appeared on the field in the second half. Passes
to the lanky Williams and some fine running by
Thibodeau scored three touch-downs. Mattox
rounded out the blasting third quarter by returning a
punt from midfield to the goal. Score: W. & L. 27—
N. C. State 6. oo.

Kentucky:

“A nine-yard punt paved the way to the first Ken-
tucky touchdown. Williams took his place at end and
a pass for goal to tie the score. But Kentucky broke
through the Generals’ line by smash-drives for an-
other marker and one “shipwreck” Kelly wrecked
further hopes by a 63-yard run through a broken line
and an open field to make the score 20-6 in favor of
the Blue Grass Wildcats.

West Va.:

The Generals displayed greater ability against the
mountaineers at Charleston than the score indicates.
The Glenn brothers ripped through the Generals’ line
as expected. But the General backs also did some
ripping and passing to constantly threaten the W. Va.

 

WILLIAMS GRooP
End Center

HAwKINS
Tackle, Captain

FIVE GENERALS

goal. Williams was again sent in late, and accounted
for the Generals’ lone tally and much effective de-

fense. Score : W. & L. 6W. Va. 26.

Tennessee:

Hack and Mack and the Tennessee volunteers had
already achieved a reputation that insured victory.
‘The volunteer varsity scored twenty points and re-
tired in favor of a second team, which scored nine-
teen more points against spiritless play. Captain
Hawkins was absent from the fray with a mashed
hand received in the Mountaineer mix-up. “Monk”
Mattox departed the scene with a sprained ankle.
One Mr. Bailey was injected to show that the famed
Volunteer scoring combination could be thrown for
a loss. Williams joined him in the exhibition which
was the only spark of defensive ability shown.
Bailey also did some noteworthy punting and pass-

he score: W. & L. 0 Tenn. 39.

V. P.T.:

From their season’s records the Gobblers and the
Generals appeared to be evenly matched. ‘Therefore,
a record crowd cheerfully contributed to the gate
receipts at the Lynchburg Municipal Stadium. V.
P. I. received the kick-off on their 35-yard line,
tossed a pass to Mr. Spear for a 40-yard gain,
plunged and passed for a touch-down while the fans
were hunting their seats. ‘They repeated the process
thrice ere the second quarter was under way. Where-
upon Coach Oberst sent in a new backfield with
hopes of better astronomical observations. Also
Leigh Williams was sent to right end and Bailey to
right tackle. Gobbler. passes ceased to menace, Gob-
bler drives fell short of first downs. Only Gobbler
punts were allowed to roll unchecked to the five-yard
line and stop. Martin, Mitchell and Jones made en-
couraging gains through and around the line. Mar-

 

T HIBODEAU BARNETT
Half Full

 

 

 

 

 

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

tin and Bailey threw numerous passes to Williams to
end the half on their opponents’ 5-yard line. The
same aggregation repeated the process during the
second half and except for misjudging punts and al-
lowing one of Bailey’s efforts to be blocked they
earned the plaudits of disheartened supporters who
wonderingly murmured, “If they had only been
started in the first quarter,’ as Leigh Walliams de-
jectedly sat and bounced a short pass behind the goal
line for the lone tally late in the final quarter. Inci-
dentally the lanky end played the most magnificent
game of his career. He stopped the famed Gobbler
backs, blocked passes, wearily fought to receive
passes against alert and knowing Gobbler defenders
and saw Gobbler linesmen heavily penalized for
adopting illegal tactics against him.

Virginia Game, Nov. 16:

Several axioms born in history and proven by
practice come to mind when thinking of the annual
W. & L.-Va. classic. One is that victory over the
Cavaliers outweighs all other defeats of the year.
Another is that no matter what success has been
achieved by either team during the immediately pre-
ceding season, they enter their annual clash with even
chances. ‘These feelings are shared by their oppo-
nents.

Thus the homecoming game will attract alumni
and visitors to Lexington from every section of the
country Saturday, November 16th. Whatever the
score may be they are assured of a classic battle well
worth the trip.

With no injuries in the St. Johns game on the pre-
ceding Saturday the homecomers will see Capt. Bill
Hawkins in his regular position at tackle and the
younger Mattox at quarter. Both were sorely missed
in the V. P. I. game. If Williams gets the starting
call at end and Bailey at the other tackle with the
newfound Martin somewhere in the backfield the
Generals will present a potent threat to Cavalier as-
pirations and bid fair to break the continuity of three
successive defeats at the hands of their traditional
foes. |

In the backfield Thibodeau, Faulkner, Eberhardt,
Jones and Barnett of last year’s varsity and Mitchell,
sophomore fullback have made good showings.
Seligman and J. R. Martin, guards, Groop and Snod,
erass, centers, Tillar, tackle, Day and Cocke, ends,
all seasoned letter-men of the line and Hostetter,
tackle, Harris, guard and Bledsoe, end, are the most
eligible for call with Hawkins, Williams and Bailey.

They will be opposed by a powerful and experi-
enced Cavalier line; One, Thomas, sensational shifty
sophomore back and Capt. Sloan, triple threat ace of
the Virginia team. A battle royal will result.

Homecoming, Nov. 16:

Homecoming and the Virginia game are synony-
mous. Football is the excuse, meeting former class-
mates and professors and seeing the campus is the
main attraction.

A morning game between V. M. I. and the U. of
Kentucky in the V. M. I. Stadium will start the foot-

ball day at 11:00 A. M. Both teams have made ex-

cellent records this season. ‘Tickets should be se-
cured in advance with remittance of $2.00 each and
a stamped return envelope to Blandy Clarkson,
Graduate Manager, V. M. I, Lexington.

Meeters and greeters will assemble at the Alumni
Building at 10:00 A. M. for the annual alumni meet-
ing. Two trustees of the Alumni Association, Inc.
are to be elected for 3-year terms to succeed retiring
trustees D. B. Owen, 712, and S. W. Frierson, ’00.
Resident and non-resident alumni members of the
Athletic Council are to be elected and the names of
alumni are to be recommended for filling a vEcaicy
on the University Board of Trustees.

A buffet luncheon will be given in the Alumni

- Building by the University for alumni, their families

and friends at 1:00 P. M., thus providing an in-
formal get-together occasion and a quick bite free
from the congestion of Lexington restaurants be-
tween games. Dan Owen’s famous ham will head
the sandwich menu.

The afternoon game will start promptly at 2:30 P.
M. on Wilson Field. ‘Tickets should be secured in
advance with remittance of $2.00 each and stamped
return envelope enclosed to Graduate Manager R.

A. Smith, Wo & L, U7 Lexington.

Probable Line-up, W. & L.:

Williams, Left end (41); Bailey, L. tackle (4):
Seligman, L. guard (1); Snodgrass, Center (26):
Holstein, R. guard (6); Hawkins, R. tackle (31);
Bledsoe, R. end (36); Mattox, Quarterback (24);
Faulkner (45) or Martin (18), Left half; Thibodeau
(10) or Eberhardt (60), Right half; Mitchell (8) or
Barnett (12), Fullback.

- Coach’s Letters:

New Coach Oberst has instituted a welcome serv-
ice to alumni by sending out periodic circular letters
on athletics. These letters do not go to all alumni,
but to those who have manifested an interest in this
department. ‘Those who wish to be put on the
Coach’s mailing list should communicate with him to
that effect. Coach Oberst is full-time head coach of
all athletics and will, no doubt, cover other sports
than football in his effort to provide alumni with
first-hand information on athletic conditions at
Washington and Lee.

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ALUMNI
NEW YORK ASSOCIATION:

The ever active and enthusiastic Manhattan
Alumni Association held its annual meeting at the

Lafayette Hotel, Friday evening November 8th.

Hon. John W. Davis, 92, President of the Manhat-
tan Association presided at this gathering of nearly
one hundred Washington and Lee alumni.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, professor of economics and
business administration, able and practical student of
governmental affairs who has served Virginia and
many another state with reports on proposed or needed
legislation. by request during recent years, was the
principal speaker at the Manhattan meeting. He re-
viewed the progress of Washington and Lee during
the administration of retiring President Henry Louis
smith, touched upon athletics and student affairs:

was heartily applauded.

Officers for the coming year were elected and Sec-
retary James A. Lee and his committee praised for
their efficient work during the year. A more com-
plete report of the meeting will be published in the
next issue of the ALUMNI MaGaziIne.

ALUMNI SECRETARY:

Verbon E. Kemp, ’20, Alumni Secretary 1924-2)
accepted another position, resigned. Stuart Moore,
"40, was elected Secretary pro tem and resigning Sec-
retary Kemp was asked to continue the editorship of
the ALuMNr Macazinx temporarily by the trustees of
the Alunmi Association, Inc. Stuart Moore found
that he would be unable to attend to the office and do
justice to his regular work.

Judge Wm. A. Bell, ’95, one time University trustee,
from New Orleans, La., recuperating from a severe
illness and nervous breakdown, was elected as Secre-
tary pro tem with a view toward assuming full re
sponsibilities should his health permit. Gracious, able
and imbued with love for Washington and Lee,
Judge Bell brought. unexcelled qualifications to the
position and received the endorsement and support of
alumni and faculty. However, his health again
broke down after two months’ service and he felt it
necessary to resign.

Trustees of the Alumni Association feel that a
permanent secretary should not be chosen until Dr.
Henry Louis Smith’s successor as president of the
University is elected, due to the service by the Alumni
Secretary as Executive Secretary to the President.

Thus, the election of a secretary to serve until
January Ist is the problem of the Alumni Associa-
tion’s officers at their meeting on November 16th.

LATE MAGAZINE:

Publication of the ALUMNr MaGazIng monthly has
been promised. The resignation and temporary edi-

“19

 

CoacH OBERS?T
“Letters to Alumnv’

torship-at-a-distance by your former Alumni Secre-
tary and the illness and resignation of Judge Wm. A
Bell made the adoption of the monthly publication
schedule impossible. At an Alumni Association E.x-
ecutive Committee attended by P. B. Owen, ’12, John
L,. Campbell, 709, V. E. Kemp, ’20, and Paul M. Pen-
ick, 96, University Treasurer, it was decided to de-
lay the fall issue until November, to then secure a
temporary Secretary to aid in the publication of the
mid-winter number.

Thus, explanation and apology to loyal subscribers
who have supported the MAGAZINE since its inception
four years ago.

RICHMOND CLUB:

The Washington and Lee Club of the City of Rich-
mond held its second quarterly meeting for the cur-
rent year on Tuesday, October 15th, at the University
Club in the City of Richmond, at 6:30 P. M.

The meeting was presided over by C. H. Morris-
sett, President. The principal speaker of the even-
ing was Dr. James Morrison Hutcheson. Mr. Louis
S. Epes, the newly elected trustee of the board of the
University, was present and was called on for a few
remarks concerning his new post. Mr. Epes was
heartily congratulated by the members of the Club.

The meeting was largely attended and very enthusi-
astic. By unanimous vote, a resolution was adopted
calling on the proper authorities at Washington and
Lee to use their best efforts to schedule a big football

 

 

 

 

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

game in Richmond next fall. Richmond’s magnificent
new stadium is being used for the first time this fall,
and the members of the Club expressed themselves as
heartily in favor of having a big game at the stadium
nexitt fall between Washington and Lee and a worthy
opponent.
help the alumni in their efforts to encourage desirable
students from Richmond to attend Washington and
Lee. :

Mr. O. M. Stumpf is Secretary and Treasurer of
the Washington and Lee Club of the City of Rich-
mond, and Mr. Chas. W. Moss is Vice-President.

At the meeting on Oct. 15th a committee was ap-
pointed to draft suitable resolutions on the passing of

James Poyntz Nelson and D. C. O'Flaherty. Mr. -

Nelson attended Washington and Lee during the
presidency of General Lee.

TRAINING SCHOOL HEAD:

The Rev. Samuel McPheeters Glasgow, D.D., ’04,
pastor of the First Psesbyterian Church of Knoxville,
Tenn., has been selected to succeed Dr. Walter Lee
Lingle as president of the Presbyterian Assembly
Training School here, the Rev. William E. Hill, D.D.,
chairman of the nominating committee of the board
of trustees of the institution, announced yesterday.

Dr. Glasgow has been notified of his nomination by
the board and has taken the matter under advisement
and will notify the board of his decision within the
next few days. The position has been vacant since the
resignation of Dr. Lingle in the early summer to as-
sume the presidency of Davidson College.

Dr. Glasgow was born at Fincastle, March 18, 1883,
and is the son of the late Frank Glasgow, ’77. He was
graduated from Washington and Lee University in
1904. He is a graduate of the 1907 class of Union
Theological Seminary, where he held the Hoge Fel-
lowship for a year.

Shortly after his graduation, Dr. Glasgow married

Miss Mary Finley MclIllwaine, of Petersburg. He was |

pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of Charleston,

W. Va., for a number of years before accepting the -

call to the First Church of Knoxville ten years ago.

In addition to his ministerial work, Dr. Glasgow —

has written a number of books on Bible study and is
well known throughout the Southern Presbyterian
Church for his religious educational work and as a
leader in religious conferences. The board of trus-
tees of the Presbyterian Training School at a meet-
ing Tuesday afternoon unanimously approved the se-
lection of Dr. Glasgow by the nominating committee.

COLLEGE HEAD:

ATHENS, W. Va., Juty 6—Dr. George West
Diehl, who has served for five years as president of
Concord State college at this place, was unanimously

It was thought that such a game would

chosen by the board of trustees of Morris Harvey
college, located at Barboursville, W. Va., as_ presi-
dent of that institution, succeeding Dr. Robert H.
Ruff, who recently resigned to accept a place on a
church board.

Dr. Diehl brought Concord State college from an
enrollment of ninety-six to one of 433 during his in-
cumbency and made it one of the leading educational
institutions of the state. The reduction in the per
capita cost to the state and the elevation of educa-
tional standards are outstanding features of his work
here.

It will be remembered that Dr. Diehl was principal
of the Brownsburg High school the session of 1910-
1911 and that he was graduated from Washington and
Lee University in the class of 1913. Mrs. Diehl was
formerly Miss Iva C. Shafer, eldest daughter of Mr.
and Mrs. John A. Shafer, of South Buffalo in Rock-
bridge county. |

Dr. Diehl assumed his new duties on July 1. Mrs.
Diehl will join him at Barboursville in August at the
close of the Concord summer session: she is dean of
women and professor of psychology at present.

ELKS RULER:

Walter Pemberton Andrews, ’87, native of Mont-
gomery County, North Carolina, prominent member
of the Atlanta Bar, legislator and State Senator,
sportsman, past potentate of Yaarab Temple, Atlanta
Shrine, and prominent local, state and national leader
of Elks, was elevated to the highest post in Elkdom
at the Los Angeles Convention in July, when he was
chosen Grand Exalted Ruler. Colonel Andrews went
to Atlanta in 1891 for the practice of law and shortly
thereafter became active in legal, social, political and
fraternal affairs of the Georgia capital. Possessing
a charming personality, a dynamic appeal to one’s
interest, a vigorous sponsoring of worthwhile causes,
Mr. Andrews combines those traits of character
necessary to the leader of men.

Walter P. Andrews received his A.B. degree from

_ Trinity in 1887 and then attended the Law School at

Washington and Lee University, where he graduated
with the degree of Bachelor of Laws in 1891. As an
undergraduate at Trinity and as a law student at Wash-
ington and Lee, Walter Andrews demonstrated those
traits of character, energy and application that have
endeared him to his associates. In November, 1891,
Walter P. Andrews opened his law office in Atlanta,
Georgia. Since that time he has been affiliated with
many of the forward movements of his community.
The Atlanta Lodge of the Elks unanimously en-
dorsed Walter P. Andrews for the Grand Exalted
Rulership of the Order; the brochure that the lodge
sent out to all Elks, contained the following:
“He began the practice of law, in Atlanta, Georgia,

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

in 1891, and later married Miss Leontine Chisholm, of
Atlanta, who was recognized as one of the most beauti-
ful, charming belles of Georgia society.

“Andrews joined Atlanta Lodge of Elks in 1904 but
he did not begin his notable Elk activities until 1910
after he had been prevailed upon to accept the Exalted
Rulership of his Lodge.

“His first act was to declare that Atlanta Lodge
should have a new home of its own, and _ practically
abandoning all of his personal affairs, devoted two
solid years to the work of Atlanta Lodge, and his ef-
forts were rewarded on February 22, 1912, by seeing
a beautiful and splendidly appointed new Elks Home
completed by Atlanta Lodge and dedicated to the uses
of Elkdom.

“During his two years of administration more than
one thousand new members were initiated into Atlanta
Lodge.

“He was appointed District Deputy for Georgia
North in 1911, and in 1912 was appointed to mem-
bership on the Judiciary Committee of the Grand
Lodge.

“He revived and reorganized the Georgia State
Association of Elks and served the Association as
President. |

“He was appointed in 1924 as a Justice of the
Grand Forum and is at this time serving as Chief
Justice of the Grand Forum, which is really the Su-
preme Court of the Order.

“He was elected in 1915 to serve in the Lower
House of the General Assembly of Georgia and in
1917 was unanimously elected to serve a term in the
Georgia Senate.

“He was appointed by President Wilson in 1913
as Commissioner General to the Mediterranean and
Balkan States in the imterest of the Panama-Pacific
Exposition, held in San Francisco in 1915.

“He has served in many important state, civic and
fraternal capacities, too numerous to mention.”

Colonel Andrews is also a Thirty-second degree
Scottish Rite Mason, Knight ‘emplar and has served
as Potentate of Yaarab Temple (Shrine).

Atlanta, accustomed to vociferous welcomes to
heroes such as Bobby Jones, Lindbergh and the Golden
Tornado, turned out enmasse with three brass bands
and the mayor’s fully regaled Committee of Hand-
shakers, to receive the newly elected Grand Exalted
Ruler of Elks on August 8.

The Atlanta Constitution cameraman was on the
job for the big parade and caught the beaming Colo-
nel receiving the great ovation from his fellow citi-
zens upon his arrival. The following clipping from
that paper partially pictures the great celebration:

“Walter P. Andrews, of Atlanta, newly elected
grand exalted ruler of all Elkdom, speaking at the
banquet in his honor at the Atlanta’ Athletic Club

 

Cor. W. P. Anprews, 791
“Charming Personality, Dynamic Appeal”

Thursday night, announced that one of the main ob-
jectives of his administration would be the fostering
of a nationwide endowment fund of $20,000,000 to
be used for charitable purposes throughout the entire
country.

“The plan was approved at the Los Angeles con-
vention, he stated, and on his tour through the far
western states he found sentiment favorable every-
where. In outlining the scheme, Mr. Andrews pointed
out that it was a purely voluntary move, but that he
believed every Elk would be more than willing to
lend his cooperation when the true facts were made
known.

““This endowment plan will do more for our or-
ganization than anything else could possibly do,’ the
speaker declared, ‘because it will put us in a position
to be of even more service to our fellowman.’

“Mr. Andrews’ speech followed brief talks by
Mayor Ragsdale, Attorney-General George M. Napier,
Joseph E. Pottle, of the Milledgeville lodge; Robert
Williams, of LaGrange, president of the Georgia
State Elks’ Association; Thomas Dennis, exalted
ruler of the Birmingham lodge, and others, all of whom
were of one accord in singing the praises of the new
ruler of all Elks and in according him a cordial welcome
home. John S. McClelland presided.

“The banquet brought to a close almost a full day of
festivities in honor of Mr. Andrews which began on
his arrival at 1 o'clock Thursday afternoon.—Cour-
tesy Duke University Alumni Register.

EDGAR SYDENSTRICKER (M. A. 02):
Recently has been elected Fellow of the Royal Sta-
tistical Society of Great Britian, elected to membership

 

 

 

ae THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

~in Delta Omega (the fraternity in the public health sci-

ences), and appointed lecturer in social research in the
graduate school of Columbia University.

At the request of the medical director, International
Health Organization of the League of Nations, he
made a trip in April, 1929, to Geneva to advise with
League officials on the further development of the
epidemiological work of the League which he initiated

in 1922-24 when serving as chief of the statistical

service of the League’s health department, and repre-
sented the League at international conferences on sta-

tistical matters at Berlin and Paris.

DRUNK CURE:

Justice T’. Gray Haddon, ’11, on February 1, last,
succeeded Judge John Ingram as magistrate of the
Richmond, Va., Police Court. He soon became ac-
quainted with the problem of what to do with habitual
drunkards who lack money to pay fines and become
public charges during their tenure in city jail.

As old offenders came before him time after time,
Justice Haddon began to work out in his mind a plan
whereby prisoners could be made to do productive
work, rather than idle away sentences in the jail.

The result was an arrangement with Captain Penn,
in charge of the State penitentiary farm in Goochland
County, whereby “drunks” sent up the river by Justice
Haddon are segregated from the felons and kept to-
gether in a misdemeanor section.

“About two months ago I began keeping tab on
habitual drunkards,” Justice Haddon states. “I kept
a list of the fellows who never paid fines and have
spent several years of their lives in the city jail. The
drunk who pays his fine is not a charge on the city.
So I had to leave them out of my plan.

“Briefly, I decided to give old offenders another
chance to stay off the rum wagon. I told them if
they made an agreement with me not to get in trouble
again, I would dismiss them, but that if they came
back on a drunk charge, within a reasonable period of
time, I would give them ninety days on the ‘farm’.”

Here the judge opened the drawer of his desk and
pulled out a pad, on which fifteen names were writ-
ten.

“Here is my list,’ the judge said, “but I would not
want the list made public. My desire is to help these
fellows. |

“There are now nine men at the State farm pulling
ninety days each. I sent two old offenders there to-
day, men who made promises and promptly got drunk
again.”

“Has any prisoner, after serving ninety days at the
Goochland farm, appeared before you since on a charge
of being drunk?” Justice Haddon was asked.

“No, because none has completed his ninety-day
sentence,’ Haddon replied. “In giving these men

 

P. P. Grsson, 713
“Married”

ninety-day terms, | warned them that if they appeared
before me again on a drunk charge, I would send them
back to Goochland for six months.

“The system is working out well. Captain Penn in-
forms me that he puts these misdemeanor prisoners in
the cannery and that they are taking an interest in their
work, busily canning tomatoes these days. I believe
every one will admit this is an improvement on the old
system of having men serve time in the City.

PHILIP P. GIBSON, ’13:

At Washington and Lee “Pete”? Gibson managed
athletic teams, managed student political campaigns,
ran for a few offices himself. In all such activities
he was generally successful. His success was sym-
bolized by the receipt of his academic degree in 1913
and his law degree in 1915, by his election to
Omicron Delta Kappa and to the Sigma Society. In-
cidentally, he lead the Pi Kappa Alpha fraternity to
many a pledging and political victory and assisted it
to domination among the campus greeks of that
time.

After graduation “Pete” went into law and _poli-
tics. His usual success has followed him, tho he has
been content to aid in the direction of the democratic
party in his home city of Huntington, W. Va., and
has turned deaf ears to repeated appeals to enter in-
to competition for political preferment himself. His
growing law practice has proven more than sufficient
to keep him busy when not making key-note demo-
cratic speeches. His law offices are in the Robson
Prichard Building, Huntington. He was married on

Sept. 10, 1929, to Miss Morell Jones.

 

 

 

 

_

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE : 25

However, “Pete” has always taken time to ex-
press his interest in Washington and Lee affairs. He
was for the duration of its life, president and organ-
izer of the Tri-State Association of Washington and
Lee Alumni composed of former students living in
Huntington and nearby Kentucky and Ohio towns.
He is an unfailing supporter at the annual W. & L.-
U. of W. Va. game in Charleston and attends as

many of the homecoming games in Lexington as

possible.

MAYOR:

H. Crim Peck, ’07, Lexington business man, gol-
fer and lawyer assumed the office of, Mayor to
which he was elected in the late spring. No up-
heavals or drastic changes followed—instead a steady
and studied attempt to better the town and to ad-
minister justice justly: E;xample, a student was ar-
rested for driving an automobile while intoxicated.
Sentence: 30 days jail and $150 fine. Aim: to re-
duce student automobile fatalities.

GOVERNOR:

Dr. Wm. M. Brown, °14, deserted the professor’s
mantle for the politician’s toga, campaigned arduously
for the governorship of Virginia on a coalition anti-
Smith republican ticket; aroused more enthusiasm
than has been seen in a state election in many a dec-
ade, was vilified and condemned as heretic and
political trickster by the predominant and almost ex-
clusive democratic press of the State, was launded
and boosted by that substantial group who upset
Virginia tradition by carrying the State for Hoover
last year. The imposing and appreciative group
was not sufficiently powerful to carry him to the goal
for which he fought. Result of the balloting as re-
ported to date: Brown, coalition 100,000; Pollard,
democrat 170,000.

Because of its echo of the presidential campaign
and because of the challenge to the traditional domi-
nance of the democratic party in Virginia the
State’s gubernatorial campaign awakened  nation-
wide interest. The unusual spectacle of two staid
college professors in opposing political roles added
color. Dr. Brown’s forceful and vigorous campaign
methods added spice and won him much temporary
notoriety and some lasting admiration.

LOVING CUP:

Appointed to The Birmingham News loving cup
committee to select the person who has contributed
most to that city’s welfare or progress during the last
year, is the representative of the Redstone Club, Wil-
liam J. Rushton, ’21.

Born July 10, 1900, and reared in Birmingham, Mr.
Rushton has been identified with the civic, industrial

and social life of the city since being graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1921. He entered the com-
pany of which his father was president, the Birming-
ham Ice and Cold Storage Company. He is now vice-
president of the company, as well as of the City Ice
Delivery Company. |

Mr. Rushton is president of the Birmingham Coun-
cil, Boy Scouts of America; vice-president of the board
of directors, Y. M. C. A. and a deacon of First Pres-
byterian Church. He is a member of the Country
and Southern Clubs, as well as the Redstone Club. He
is a director of the First National Bank. He was
married to Miss Elizabeth Perry three years ago.

The Birmingham News has awarded a loving cup
to a citizen for conspicuous service annually since 1920.
The selection is made by representatives of 16 civic
clubs, each of which makes its own appointment.

GAME EXPERT:

Charles O. Handley, who has been engaged by the
state game and inland fisheries commission as a game
expert, was in Lexington recently in conference with
Commissioner A. Willis Robertson of the department.
Mr. Handley entered upon his duties the first of the
month.

He will engage in various lines of activity tending
to increase the supply of game in the state. He has
already taken charge of the Camp Lee game farm
and describes it as ideal quail country, capable of
raising and supporting 5,000 or 6,000 birds a year.
Mr. Handley will make a survey of game conditions
throughout the state and will prepare an extensive
exhibit of birds for the state fair this fall. He ex-
pects also to have moving pictures taken of ideal
quail cover and conditions and of the stages in rais-
ing quail which will be used in an educational cam-
paign throughout the state. Mr. Handley graduated
from Washington and Lee in 1922 and came to Vir-
ginia from Georgia.

FROM G. S. SPRAGINS, ’24:

“Each issue of the ArumNn1 MacazIneE_ received

brings great pleasure, and affords the only means of

following Washington and Lee events, as the news-
papers out this way seem to get no items from the
University.

“My present position is that of Assistant Cashier
of the Santa Paula Branch of the Bank of Italy,
California’s great branch bank system. My greatest
asset, however, is a young daughter eight months old,
whom her proud parents have named Virginia.”

“The enclosed from the Los Angeles Times |
of September 7th may be of interest, as it concerns
a W. & L,. alumnus.” G. S. SPRAGINs.
Address 401 Santa Barbara At.,

Santa Paula, Calif.

 

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

VIRGINIA DARE:

Novelized by Herbert B. Hawes, “95, the life of
the white child born in America has been pictured
under the title of “The Daughter of the Blood” and
published in a limited and rich first edition by the
Four Seas Co. of Boston, Mass. Mr. Hawes records
history graphically, makes fiction artistically and
colors the combination with a wealth of philosophic
observation. :

BALL:

Long a traditional social event the Virginia Gov-
ernor’s Ball has been revived, was led by Mayor Le
Roy Hodges, 10, managing Director of the Virginia
State Chamber of Commerce in its first presentation
this fall. |

SUMMER VISITORS:

Registering at the Alumni Building in Lexington
during the vacation months were Frank A. Nelson,
93, from Chattanooga, Tenn., Fred M. Hudson, O7
Miami, Fla., A. Fred White, ’01 Donora, Pa., Thos.
R. Gordon, ’72, Louisville, Ky., E. B. Shultz, °16,
Lawrence, Kansas, E. Clyde Hoge, ’08, Cincinnati,
Ohio, W. T. Lovins, Kenova, W. Va. F. H. Fig
12, Hampden-Sidney, Va., M. P. Matheny, 24, E.
Dorado, Ark., James ‘Thomas, ’14, Baltimore, Md.,
Sandy P. Figgat, ’87, Roanoke, Va. and Wayne
Ely, °11, St. Louis, Mo.

STYLE COUNSEL: :
Orton B. Motter graduated at Beloit College,
Wis., came to Washington and Lee in 1925, studied
law, went to Florida, became a publicity expert, be-
came a publicity director for the House of Kuppen-
heimer, mass producers of men’s clothing in Chicago.
“ony” Motter is now in the firm of “Orton Bb. Motter
and Associates, Men’s Style Counsel, Merchandising
Ideas, Style Lectures, Editorial and Copy Service,

Public Relations, Direct Mail Advertising, Counsel-_

ors in Sartory.”

Lo eee
°

LETTERS

“DUKE” LOMBARDI WRITES OF 716,
: GRIDMEN: :
Boston, Mass., July 30, 1929.
Dear Editor Kemp:

I have been reading the ALUMNI MAGAZINE regu-
larly and eagerly look forward to it. I especially like
your “personals” column. Dr. Smith’s address, pub-
lished in your July issue was indeed an inspiration.
I have tacked it on my wall here in the office. It has
been there only two days, but I almost know it by
heart. I could win any declamation contest with that
address.

I have been married almost fourteen months and

 

-have a baby girl of three weeks. Quite a thrill, being

a father. And, in spite of what I say, my good friend
Albert (Count) Pierotti is going to be married on
August 15th next. Although I keep telling him that
a “wife” is more formidable than ten football teams—
the “Count” insists upon playing his Center position
on the line of matrimony. Well, the “Count” will learn
his “four-letter-prowess” means nothing to Mrs.
Pierotti. By the way, the “Count” teaches at the
Junior High School, Chelsea, Mass. And, from re-
ports, he is some teacher too. As a teacher one would
never recognize the burly, surly, snarling all-around
athletic of Washington and Lee of a decade or so
ago. Yes, and he still knits. His wife-to-be ought
to like that.

Blaine Kehoe now conducts a business of his own,
is married and has a couple of kiddies to keep him
awake at nights.

Ray ‘Till is very much married, seven or eight lit-

tle ones, I believe, and is doing well in business. I

believe it’s coal.

“Tigges” Donahue is one of the bosses of the famous
Boston Market. He has the vegetable market cor-
nered every way and is prospering. He has a family
too. He cannot keep away from baseball, so manages
the “Market Nine.”

Of the other W. and lL. boys hereabouts, Smith has
almost all of Cape Cod mortgaged and is doing ex-
tremely well in the real estate business. Cooper still
reminds us of the time we made him imitate Chief Sit-
ting Bull, adorned with a lonely blanket while the flakes
from House and Hog-back mountains serenely flaked
about him. Bob Ignico, I haven’t seen for some years.

I believe he is somewhere in the south, still in the

air service. All of these boys, of course, were at W.
and L,. from 714 to ‘18.

“On the Banks of the Old North River’’—‘“Come
Back; Come Back to Washington and Lee”’—are lines
I often mutter. And they make me lonesome, and I
pine for a sight of the old green campus—the place of
honor and men—the place that made me. Your maga-
zine brings back vividly, the memories when Sullivan,
Goldberg, Williams and me, known as the “Musket-
eers’” accidentally saw the “crucification in green” of
dear old Annie White’s dog, “Laddie,” but would not
squeal on “Tex”? Bryan.

Very sincerely yours,
CHARLES LOMBARDI.
101 T'remont St.,
Boston, Mass.

FROM ONE OF ’61:
Crozet, Virginia, August 30, 1929.

Dear Sir:
I thank you heartily for the copy of THe ALUMNI
MacaZzIneE of ’29, sent by you.

 

was a Si sae ela all aa. ie th lt

 

a ————

 

cea aime

 

 

 

he Re gicide

 

On January 30, 1649, all England shrank with
horror. The victorious Roundheads had repu-
diated the “Divine Right of Kings,” and His
Most Christian Majesty Charles I was to be
beheaded. Often in the past had nobles and
archbishops plotted, assassinated, kidnapped,
but never before had British commoners in-
dicted their King for High Treason, tried him
in open court, sentenced him to death. Puritans
whispered scared prayers. Cavaliers cursed,
vowed swift, gory vengeance.

Oliver Cromwell, almost the last to be con-
vinced that Charles’ death was necessary and
hence the immutable design of Providence, had
signed the death warrant. As TIME, had it
been published February 1, 1649, would have
reported the event:

.... Grim guards, gentlemen Roundheads, strode in
at dawn to wake the King. Rising, His Majesty donned
two shirts.... “So I may not seem to tremble,” he
said shrewdly, bravely. After cruel, nerve-shattering
delays Charles I was led through subdued crowds to
a scaffold set up outside the windows of his own ban-
quet chamber in Whitehall. Thousands had come to
gape, including most of the Roundhead leaders, but
Oliver Cromwell was not there.

Standing fearlessly erect on the scaffold, Charles I
looked out over the pikes of Roundhead soldiers,
glimpsed a shuffling, uneasy throng in which there

 

 

 

must be still some loyal subjects, tried to reach them
with his voice. The crowd murmured, strained to
hear. Soldiers clinked their weapons, making it im-
possible for the royal words to carry far. Few heard
His Majesty say: “For the people, truly, I desire
their liberty and freedom, as much as any body whom-
soever! But....their liberty and freedom consists
in having government, in those laws by which their
lives and goods may be most their own. It is not their
having a share in the government; that is nothing
pertaining to them. A subject and a sovereign are
clear different things.”

It was two o’clock. Charles by the Grace of God
King, Defender of the Faith, took off his coat and
doublet, looked up a last time at the English sky,
spoke briefly to Bishop Juxon, and lay down full
length with his head on the block. The crowd swayed,
surged upon the soldiers. But pikes and swords cowed
loyal hearts. Charles Stuart prayed a moment, waved
his hand as a sign that he was ready.

It was two o’clock, four minutes. Whirling high
and shimmering in the sunlight the axe descended,
clove. With gibbering pride the black-masked exe-
cutioner held high a dripping royal head, his first.

.... Body and head were united later; reposed that
night in the once royal banquet hall, guarded by two
nobles, one the Earl of Southampton. A black shroud
up to the chin hid where the axe had fallen. Candles
burned by the head.

After midnight, while the watchers sat sunk in
melancholy revery, a figure muffled in a dark cloak
quietly entered the hall, paced slowly toward the
body, stood looking down at the face of Charles I.
Turning on heel at last the figure stalked away, mut-
tering “Cruel necessity!” It was Oliver Cromwell...

Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias,
turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publica-
tions, fair dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal
in the sense that they report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups.

 

 

 

The Weekly Newsmagazine

 

 

 

 

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

It afforded me much pleasure to read it, which I

did, every line. Only sorry that I cannot afford to

subscribe for it, you will understand that.

I am one of the very few ’61’s—Wm. A. Anderson
the only one that I know of—I hope there are some
others. ,

Sorry to see you are resigning.

With best wishes,

Cordially,
J. L. SHERRARD, 61.

GOODE’S GOOD LETTER:

Dear Judge Bell:

I saw the announcement of your appointment as
Alumni Secretary of the W. & L. Alumni Association
sometime ago and wanted to be among the first of the
alumni to express appreciation of your acceptance of
the job and offer my cooperation.

However, about that time I was offered a position as
Secretary to Engineering Assistant to the President,

Chesapeake and Ohio, Hocking Valley and Pere Mar-

quette Railway Companys, at Cleveland, Ohio, and
left my job as Secretary to Engineer Maintenance of
Way, Chesapeake and Ohio Railway, at Richmond,
Va., where I had been ever since graduating from
Washington and Lee University in 1925. In making
the change I did not get an opportunity to write you,
however, I want to say at this late date that your ap-
pointment is very gratifying to me and I[ trust you are
making big plans for expansion of alumni activities
and continuing the good work started by Verbon
Kemp.

Recently I received my copy of the ALUMNI MaAGa-
ZINE and while I have not finished reading it, I expect
to read all of it with interest. Will be glad if you will
have my address changed to 2002 Terminal Tower,
Cleveland, O., so that future copies will come to me
promptly.

About the first person I met here was Lee Bullock,
27, who is District Manager for the Photomaton
Operating Corporation of New York City. G. D. Kas-
son, who attended W. & L. in 1927 or 1928, has re-
cently joined Bullock’s organization here. I learned
from Bullock that Toby Hendrix and Hoot Gibson,
who were at W. & L., while I was, are also located in
Cleveland. Hoot is with the General Electric Refriger-
ation Company and Toby with the Maryland Casualty
Co., McKellenburg, whose initials I don’t know but
who was at W. & L. in 1925 and 1926 and after that at
Ohio State, is in the advertising game and located in
the same building with Bullock. We are going to have
a get together in the near future and talk about the
General’s football team and various other W. & L.
matters. I’m wondering if you know of any other W.
& I. alumni in Cleveland. Mr. Herbert Fitzpatrick,
a graduate of W. & L. previous to 1900, is Vice-

President and General Counsel for the same railroads
I am with and has his headquarters in Cleveland.

We'll all be pulling for the Generals on the gridiron
this fall and hope to see at least one of the games.

Yours very. truly,
K. A. Goode, 725.

2002 ‘Terminal Tower,

Cleveland, Ohio.

Secretary,
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.,

Lexington, Va. 7

My Dear Sir:

The July issue of THR ALUMNI MAGAZINE was just
received and it occurred to me that I ought to notify
you of my change in address. Please note it and
govern yourself accordingly so that I may keep con-
tact with Alma Mater.

I resigned my position as President of Concord State
College in April to become the President of Morris
Harvey College, a fine institution under the control
of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South, which 1s
located on the banks of the beautiful Guyandotte River
and in this town.

Huntington is only ten miles away to the westward.
I have yet to be in the city without meeting some of
the fellows I knew at Washington and Lee. Lee
Beuhring and Bill Lovins are very prominent in the
legal profession. I see them often.

Please do not forget that my address is no longer
Athens, W. Va.; it is now Barboursville.

With best wishes, I am,

Yours very cordially,
Grorce West Dit, 713.
: President, Morris Harvey College.
Barboursville, W. Va.

SENATOR:

To fill the unexpired term of the late Senator L,.
D. Tyson, the governor of Tennessee appointed W.
FE. Brock, candy manufacturer of Chattanooga,
Tenn. Mr. Brock is the father of W. E. Brock, Jr.,
25, who graduated in the school of commerce.

NATIONAL GUARD:

Commanding Battery “D” of the two hundred and
forty-sixth coast guard artillery Capt. R. M. Cabell,
19, of Covington, Va., was at Fort Monroe Training
Camp for two weeks during the summer. Randy’s
rifle team won the rifle trophy cup offered annually
by W. W. Sale, ’97, State Adjutant General.

Soe Seg
°

RICE AND OLD SHOES

MARRIED: Philip P. Gibson, °*13, and Muss
Morrell Sanford Jones, Tuesday, Sept. 10th at Hun-

 

 

 

 

 

 

mer

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

tington, W. Va. At home, 1517 Sixth Ave., Hunting-

ton.

MARRIED: Giles M. Penick, ’15, and Miss Eliza-

beth Pugh at Lynchburg, Va., Saturday, September

21st. At home 1001 Court St., Lynchburg.

MARRIED: Charles George Gordon Moss, 721,
and Miss Laura Marks Anderson at Farmville, Va.,
Wednesday August 7th.

MARRIED: Newman M. Yielding, ’20, and Miss
Annie Lou Fletcher at Birmingham, Alabama. At
home 1114 Glen Iris Ave., Birmingham.

MARRIED: J. Lydell Peck, B. L., ’24, and Miss
Janet Gaynor, famed film star, at Oakland, Cal. The
bridegroom’s forgotten baggage came near to delay-
ing the honeymoon trip to Honolulu.

MARRIED: George Mitchell, ’24, and Miss Geral-
dine Griffin, July 12th, at Boston, Mass.

MARRIED: Gilbert D. Mayer, ’25, and Miss Lela
Eleanor Johnson at Huntington, W. Va., June 19th.
At home St. Albans, W. Va. —

MARRIED: George D. Varney, B. L., ’26, and
Miss Ruth Richardson, Sunday September 8th, at
South Berwick, Me.

MARRIED: Jarius Collins, Jr., ’28, and Miss
Lucile Grasty of Staunton, Va., after an elopement by
airplane from White Sulphur Springs, W. Va., to
Bristol, Va. At home at Bluefield, W. Va.

 

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. C. H. Griffin (B. 8. ’23)
a son, Tenney Saunders Griffin, Monday, Aug. 12,
1929,

o,
es
°

OBITUARY

DIED: James Poyntz Nelson, ’69, poet, novelist,
historian, scholar and engineer, at Ashland, Va. at the
age of eighty. He was a descendant of General Tho-
mas Nelson, Jr., signer of the Declaration of Inde-
pendence, Governor of Virginia and commander of
the Virginia forces at Yorktown; a cousin of the late
Thomas Nelson Page, ’71 and of Hon. Roswell Page;
a student at Washington College under General
Robert E. Lee; until his death valuation engineer for

the C. & O. Railway.

DIED: Joseph John Allen, ’70, teacher, champion
speller and Latin scholar, confederate veteran and
fiddler, of Louisburg, N. C. at a hospital in Rocky
Mount, N. C., August 20th, at the age of eighty-two.
Long a favorite with his violin at alumni reunions Mr.
Allen took especial pride in his ability to spell
correctly and to quote long passages from the Latin
and Greek classics. He was a student under General

 

Lee and treasured many mementos of the confederate
chieftain. |

s

DIED: Thomas Sloan, ’72, June 3, 1929, teacher,
at his home in Ivanhoe, N. C. at the age of seventy-
nine.

DIED: Thomas R. Gordon, ’72, lawyer and judge
at Louisville, Ky. October 12, 1929.

DIED: Hugh Bell Sproul, ’92, prominent state and
local business man of Staunton, Va., trustee of Wash-
ington and Lee, public servant and religious leader,
suddenly of heart failure at the county fair grounds
of Staunton, Sept. 5, Mr. Sproul was most active in
the affairs of Washington and Lee, being a member
of the Executive Committee of the Board of Trustees
and Chairman of the committee to choose a president.
He was a member of the State Highway Commission,
a leader in the affairs of the democratic party and ac-
tive in a variety of business and industrial enterprises.
He was also intensely interested in the development
of Mary Baldwin Seminary of Staunton, the Union
Theological Seminary of Richmond and a number of ©
foreign mission schools.

DIED: D. C. O’Flaherty, 93, lawyer of Richmond,
Va., of heart failure in the arms of his law partner,
M. J. Fulton, 91. Mr. O’Flaherty’s son, D. C. O’Fla-
herty, Jr., "27, a daughter and his widow survive him.

DIED: Harry Peyton Rhodes, ’97, native of Lex-
ington, at Crozet, Va. at the age of fifty-six.

DIED: Marshall McCormick, 710, of heart failure
at Mansfield, Ohio, where he was an official in the
Ohio Brass Co., Aug. 30th at the age of thirty-nine.

He was a native of Berryville, Va., where he was
buried.

DIED: Paul C. Crumpler, ’21, at Magnolia, Ark.
Oct. 4, 1929.

DIED: David Granville Humphreys, Jr. ’24, of
Jacksonville, Fla., June 25th aged twenty-nine of
agranulacytic angina, at the Riverside Hospital,
Jacksonville, of which he was associate surgeon.

DIED: Edward P. Crockett, ’25, banker, farmer
and mayor of Wytheville, Va., of pneumonia, July
6th, 1929. He won fame as the youngest city mayor
in the United States, at the time of his election to that
office. |

DIED: James Winston Watson, sophomore stu-
dent at Washington and Lee from injuries received in
an atttomobile accident. |

DIED: Frank J. Gilliam, Jr., four-year old son of

 

 

28

THE ALUMNI

 

;
; .
|
!
+
i
:
}
t

 

The New A. T. O.
House

GLASGOW ROUGH TEXTURE BRICK
FOR FACING

GLASGOW LOADBEARING HOLLOW
TILE FOR BACK WALLS

Other New and Handsome Residences and
Fraternity Houses Being Built in Lex-

ington Are Faced with GLASGOW
TEXTURED BRICK

LOCHER & COMPANY

Incorporated
Brick and Tile Manufacturers

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

 

~McCRUMS”
As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Onexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

MAGAZINE

Prof. Fank J. Gilliam, ’17, of menengitis at his
parents’ home in Lexington, Aug. 22nd.

DIED: Dr. Franklin L. Riley, ’61, author, histo-
rian, and professor at the head of the department of
history at Washington and Lee University for fifteen
years, of cancer at Lexington, November 10th, after
an illness of several years. :

Dr. Riley had been professor of history at Wash-
ington and Lee since 1914. He came from the Uni-
versity of Mississippi, where he had held a professor-
ship in history since 1897. Prior to his work at the
University of Mississippi he served for one year as
president of the Hillman College for Young Women,
1896-1897.

During the World War, Dr. Riley was professor of
history at the American Expeditionary Forces Uni-
versity at Beaune, France, and was an inspector of
history teaching in army schools, and a lecturer at
army camps.

He was born at Hebron, Lawrence County, Missis-
sippi, and was graduated from Mississippi College
and Johns Hopkins University. Mississippi College
conferred upon him the honorary degree, doctor of
laws, in 1916, and he held membership in the Missis-
sipp1 College chapter of Phi Beta Kappa. Among
other affiliations, Dr. Riley was chairman of the his-
torical committee of Mississippi; originator and
trustee of the Mississippi State Department of
Archives and History; organizer of the Mississippi
Historical Society; headed the sub-jury on history
and historic arts on the jury of awards at the James-
town Exposition, and was a lecturer in the summer
school of the University of the South in 1908 and
1909,

#9

PERSONALS

DR. JOHN H. LATANE, one time professor of
history and of international law at Washington and
Lee, now dean of Johns Hopkins University, was a
visitor to Lexington and the campus during the
summer.

WALTER B, ELCOCK, one time coach of famed
football teams at Washington and Lee, now a promi-
nent official in the Portland Cement Co. at New York
City, spent his vacation in Lexington.

KARL P. ZERFOSS, one time Y. M. C. A. Sec-
retary who recently graduated from the Yale Divin-
ity School, visited Lexington friends during the early
summer.

DR. EMMETT W. McCORKLE, ’77, now a resi-

dent of Ashland, Ky., returned to his old homes at
Rockbridge Baths and Lexington for a visit.

 

 

DR. HUGH M. BLAIN, ’90, was in this country
on furlough from his missionary post in Hangchow,

 

 

——

in ee a hp cain

sete cae 9 ren eee A

en

<

 

 

 

 

 

A ceaeemrenertnrteenennensegie

ee

y
é
‘
t
’

 

so
st

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

China during the spring and summer. He visted the
campus and sailed from Vancouver, B. C. on the
“Empress of France,” Aug. 29th for China.

W. H. KEISTER, ’92, of Harrisonburg, Va., was
tendered a banquet in recognition of thirty-five years
of continuous and efficient service as superintendent
of schools in Harrisonburg. His many friends pre-
sented him with a life membership in the National
Educational Association.

HON. JOHN W. DAVIS, ’92-95, was suggested
as a democratic member to attend the Five Power
Disarmament Conference as a representative of the
United States.

LYNWOOD R. HOLMES, ’00, native of Lex-
ington and now manager of the Philadelphia branch
of Furness-Withy Co., British Shippers, visited
Henry Boley during the summer.

A. FRED WHITE, ’00, of Donora, Pa. visited B.
A. Harlow, ’00 in Lexington.

HARRY ST. GEORGE TUCKER CARMICH-
AFRL, ’99, production manager of the Kyrock As-
phalt Co. and famed rescuer of Floyd Collins from
Crystal Cave was a frequent visitor to Lexington
during the summer and fall.

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

PRINTERS
COLLEGE. AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS
PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS

PERSONAL STATIONERY

Surber Publishing Co.

(INCORPORATED )

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

LEXINGTON POOL >
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

Quality

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers :

Charlottesville, Va.

Service ‘Reasonable ‘Prices

 

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

JOHN A. MOORE, ’08, of Miami, Florida, spent
his vacation in Rockbridge County.

DR. W. M. MORRISON, ’08, of Durant, Okla.
motored to Lexington covering a distance of 1400
miles in five days.

RUEBEN RAGLAND, ’09, of Tampa, Fia.,

visited friends in Lexington during the late summer. .

DR. CHARLES DEVINE, ’09, of Norfolk was

also a sttmmer visitor to the Campus.

JOHN McKEE, ‘10, of Friars Point, Miss. is
still in the business of raising cotton on his delta
plantation.

S Bo HARPER, 13, of Fort Smith, Ark &
first vice-president of the National Tire Dealers
Association. His organization has proposed a hun-
dred million dollar retail tire store chain.

FRANCIS P. MILLER, 714, chairman of the In-
ternational Student Christian Association with head-
quarters at Geneva, Switzerland, visited W. M. Mc-
Elwee, ’77, during the early summer.

WM. H. OAST, 716, ran for the clerkship of the
Portsmouth Hustings Court. The election was con-
tested in the Court of Judge B. D. White, 88.

FE. B. SHULTZ, ’16, one time secretary of the W.
& L. Y. M. C. A. and now student “Y” secretary at
the University of Kansas who has received a fellow-
ship to Columbia University was in Lexington re-
cently.

WOODSON P. HOUGHTON, ’1I7, has been
made a member of the law firm of Ellis, Ferguson,
Houghton and Gary, with which he has long been
connected in Washington, D. C. The senior member
of the firm is Wade H. Ellis, ’88.

JAMES E. BEAR, 717, missionary to China is
visiting friends and relatives in Staunton and Lex:
ington on furlough from his missionary post.

CHARLES KUPFER, 718, is now associated with
the firm of Tompkins and Maurice with offices at 30
Broad St., New York City.

DEAN OWENS, ’24, lawyer of Rome, Ga., vis-
ited Lexington during the summer before the de-
parture of his brother-in-law, C. H. Patterson, ’19,
for China.

GEORGE F. MITCHELL, ’24, is the junior
member of the law firm of Killion, Di Mento and
Mitchell at 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

MARVIN F. HUMMER, ’25, has been made a
partner in the firm of W. F. Hummer and Son at 802
B. St., N. E., Washington, D. C.

HUGH BRYSON GLASS, B. S., ’25, is now con- |

nected with the Du Pont Co. at their experimental
station after graduating in chemistry at Johns Hop-
kins. His address is 919 Gilpin Ave., Wilmington,
Del.

W. H. WILCOX, JR., ’26, is connected with the
Texas City Terminal Railway Co. at Texas City,
Texas. |

EMMETT W. McCORKLE, B. S., ’26, received
his E. E. degree from Cornell last June and is now
with the Kentucky and West Virginia Power Co. at
Ashland, Ky.

MARION M. JENKIN, ’26, who has been study-
ing art in New York visited his Lexington home dur-
ing the summer. .

DICK FEAMSTER, ’23, is teaching at the San
Diego Army and Navy Academy at Pacific Beach,
San Diego, Cal. : |

REV. H. B. LEWIS, ’94, represented Washington
and Lee at the Centennial celebration of Illinois Col-
lege at Jacksonville, Ill., October 12-15.

REV. D. L. GWATHMEY, ’09, Episcopal minis-
ter at Wytheville, Va. and Leroy Cooper, ‘06, cotton
factor of Memphis, ‘T'enn., visited Lexington during
August.

LOUIS S. EPES, ’08, new trustee, chairman of the
Va. Corporation Commission has been appointed to
the Va. Supreme Court of Appeals. His successor
on the Corporation Commission will be GEORGE, H.
PEERY, ’99, trustee and one time congressman.

SIDELIGHTS:

“Jimmy” Mattox, ’21, famed as a catcher and a
quarterback, and more particularly for his winning
drop-kick against Georgia Tech. in 1919, was a lines-
man at the V. P. I-W. & L. game in Lynchburg.
Younger brother “Monk” Mattox (yes, still another
Monk), sophomore, was out with a sprained ankle.

Coach Oberst undertook to teach the art of tackling
by submitting himself as an object. The Coach,
height six feet, five, weight 225 pounds, dashed down
the practice field. Three student tacklers, willing to
learn, dived simultaneously. The Coach reported to
the practice field on crutches for several days there-
after, still game, but wiser.

As we go to press we learn the Generals have again
appeared in the winning column with a victory over
St. Johns of Annapolis to the time of 18-6. Mr.
Faulkner and Mr. Williams accounted for the scor-
ing. :

In the meantime the University of Virginia lost to
V. P. I. 33-12 at Charlottesville.

—

 

ee

 

 

 

——

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

  

Official Fleet

of The

Intercollegiate Alumni
One hundred and three College and Uni-

versity alumni organizations have selected
the United States Lines and American
Merchant Lines as the official alumni
transatlantic lane to Europe.

 

Your official fleet is composed of eleven
splendid ships—LEVIATHAN, World’s Larg-
est Liner, and those superb cabin liners of
the United States Lines... GEORGE WASH-
INGTON, AMERICA, REPUBLIC, PRESIDENT
ROOSEVELT and PRESIDENT HARDING...
plus that ever popular quintet sailing
weekly from NewYork to London—AMER-
ICAN BANKER, AMERICAN TRADER, AMER-
ICAN MERCHANT, AMERICAN SHIPPER,
and AMERICAN FARMER. Great ships...
magnificent ships... ships of personality!

You can go first-class, second, cabin or
tourist third...swiftly or leisurely...direct
to England, Ireland, France or Germany...
in stateroomsthat measure Americanideas
of spaciousness... with the finest Ameri-
can cuisine .. . with stewards who speak
your own language. . . with sun-flooded
decks that provide vast arenas for sports
-.. play bridge and dance in salons and
ballrooms as luxurious as those that ever
played host to a junior or senior “prom.”

For rates, sailings, etc., communicate with

5 e e
your local steamship agent or alumni
secretary ... he'll be pleased to serve you.

   

 
     
 

 

 
 
    
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
     
 

7
4

 
     

 

 

YOUR FLAGSHIP

THE AMERICA, 21,144 tons, renowned as the “Ship of
Steadiness,” has been chosen as the intercollegiate flag-
ship for sailings on June 4, July 2and July 30...1930.

Swett D STATES. LIN BS

45 Broadway

 

“Official Intercollegiate Alumni Fleet” New York

 

 

 

a a

Join

the Book-of-the-Month Club

now—while you can get

Tk First Book FRE

A special offer—see reason for it below

GREAT many people (we know) have
been on the verge of joining the Book-of-

the-Month Club, but have neglected to
do so largely through oversight. This spe-

 

cial offer is made, frankly, to overcome this procrastina-
tion by making it worth while for you not to delay
“longer. We suggest simply that you get full information
at once about what the Book-of-the-Month Club does
for you, and then decide once for all whether you want
to join. The mere fact that more than 100,000 judicious
book-readers already belong to the organization—that
they represent the elite of the land in every profession
and every walk of life—that not a single one was in-
duced to join by a salesman or by personal solicitation
of any kind, but did so after simply reading the facts
about what the Club does for book-readers—all these
are indications that it is worth your while at least to get
these facts as quickly as possible, and then (if you want
to) join and get your first book free. You assume no
obligation in sending the coupon below for full infor-

mation.

Six distinguished foreign au-

thors now serve as an Inter-
national Advisory Committee
for the Book -of-the- Month
Club. The function the indi-
viduals in this foreign group
perform is to keep our judges
advised about what they con-
sider the significant new
books published abroad, each
in his own country., The Com-
mittee consists of :

FOR ENGLAND:
H. G. Wells

and

Arnold Bennett

FOR FRANCE:
André Maurois

For GERMANY AND
AUSTRIA:
Thomas Mann

and

Arthur Schnitzler

For SCANDINAVIA:
Sigrid Undset

 

 

 

BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB, Inc.
386 Fourth Avenue, New York, N. Y.

Please send me, without cost, a booklet outlining how
the Book-of-the-Month Club operates. This request
involves mein no obligation to subscribe to your service.

    

Henry Seidel Canby Heywood Dorothy Christopher William Allen
Chairman Broun Canfield Morley White

THE EDITORIAL BOARD OF THE BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB

 

 

 

 

 

Pee yo ee ee ee ee

Address

City State

Books shipped to Canadian members through

Book-of-the-Month Club (Canada) Limited

 

 

 

 

