 

FE. P. DAVIS, President

Cc. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

MAIL ORDERS FOR

RECORD, W. and L. Swing by W. and L. Orchestra—50c. prepaid
SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—-30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00

Promptly Filled

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager

 

R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

 

 

THE ALLIMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

Ik, C. Carrrey, President
K. L. GrawamM, JR., Treasurer

VerBon E. Kemv, Hditor
Dora Wrrtr, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

PAGE PAGE
ee ‘Year . . . sss bs dpe Wie aie 5 NONE: |.) ie Lda wag ks 4 da AME? s xma>-- See 24
To Fire Proof Lee Chapel, New Custodian, Etec..6-9 Many Alumni at Virginia Game................ 25
Safts and Bequests ... .. xi see eee as Oe ee 7 New York Alumni Organization.............. 25
Senior Honor Medallion to Be Awarded........ 8 Ady EB Gtorial: DiscusSiOn; tan. ear ies vk os oe 2 ke 26
Douglas S. Freeman to Give Founder’s Day Ad- George Pisipan Haw, “Gia... sce. go. was 27-28
ress ..... «issue ae eros thie keys 8 W. H. Tayloe, ’"78—About Rod Beddow, °12.... 28
Cosmopolitan Student Body Enrolled .......... 9 Harry St.As. Tucker of Virgitia...... 0... ae 29
Robert E. Lee Hotel Formally Opened.......... 10 Opituaryice sos . iia Oe. . BAS +. Hes. ee 29
MURINICTICS «2... 0s aco wu ke cies cero 8 11-13 W. G. Long, ’08, Elected District Judge.......... 30
Faculty Introductions—Dr. E. F. Shannon...... 15 Alviivim of Y estendagir Sime... ss Meese «ss 30
mith the Faculty. 43. %. os seen ee 17 Walitee: Bells 503: cee. a. She tHe. As ia 30
Professor Ellard Leaves Work Here for Rest... 17 George H. Lee, Screws and Bolts.............. 31
Recent Notes on Scholastic Departments...... 18-19 Personal Greetings. ...........: 32. 34, 36, 38, 40, 41
Bocal Meetings, January. 19th. .55% «osc; eue 20 Jotininy S@inie, 225-5 0e oS eee ss
Lynchburg Alumni Banquet ............:..--- 21 Blue and White Prominent in Kentucky........ 34

Atlanta Entertainment at Tech Game........... 22 W. and L. Abroad, William M. Miller, 13 and
Greensboro, N. C. Alumni Organize............ 23 “Javuwhtowe, “18. dig... ... os s+ ce aee sv cen 35, 37

generals Feted in Florida: ;.\.. epee tee eens 23 Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel Plan Developing
Past Seer as be coin ees. eet «Ss om ee 39

Local Alumni Give Annual Dinner to Football

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order 0 check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

lexington, Virgimia

THE MEMORIAL GATEWAY

 

HE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

==
Vor. Ill

 

 

JANUARY, 1927

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

No. 1

The Year

In the beginning, football predominated. The
Generals won four games, tied two, lost three. Sat-
‘sfaction was generally expressed. The fame of
Captain Rauber reached its zenith, made up for any
disappointments, placed Washington and Lee on the
season’s football map.

On the campus two deaths from meningitis
shocked and alarmed students. Lexington physicians.
in council. diagnosed the cases as insephelitis, a
non-infectious form of meningitis. Student fears
were allayed.

President Henry Louis Smith filled various speak-
ing engagements. met with the Alumni Association
of Greensboro, N. C.; in his office worked on de-
tailed plans for financing, and equipping the Univer-
sity, made ready for the Founder’s Day meeting of
the Board of Trustees: went to New York, lunched
with \dolph Ochs, famous publisher of the Nez’
York Times, secured his support for building a Lee
Auditorium, reported to the General Education
Board. solicited a renewal of their conditional sub-
scription to the Endowment Fund.

Announcement was made that Dr. Douglas Free-
man, brilliant editor of the Richmond (Va.) News
Leader would make the annual Founder’s Day ad-
dress on January 19th; that Frank J. Gilliam, B.A..
17, would temporarily fill the teaching position in
the English Department vacated by the sudden ill-
ness of newly appointed Professor M. W. Wilder.
Ph.D.; that only $316,000 was now past due on the
$1,400,000 (subscribed) Endowment Fund.

Dean H. D. Campbell spoke at the annual meet-
ing of the Lynchburg Alumni Association; attended
the annual meeting of the Association of Southern
Colleges and Secondary Schools at Jackson, Miss. ;
et his office handled the variety of student and ad-
ministrative problems that continually arose.

A committee of students was appointed by Presi-
dent Smith, from recommendations by the student
body and the faculty, to make a study of campus
conditions, student problems, conduct regulations and
A meeting of
iraternity members imposed strict rules for the reg-
ulation of fraternity social affairs during all college

their enforcement, esprit de corps.

 

Your Secretary, “Smoked, edited, corresponded”

dances. ‘The annual Thanksgiving dances were held;
official commendation of conduct and decorum ob-
served by the faculty committee on social functions
at these dances was made to the student body.

Your Alumni Secretary followed the football team
to Princeton, to Kentucky, to Georgia Tech, to Vir-
ginia and V. P. I., greeted visiting alumni at each
place; attended the Lynchburg alumni banquet; in-
augurated a campaign for one thousand new sub-
scribers to the ALUMNI MAGAzINE; planned for the
annual meetings of various local alumni chapters on
January 1°th; smoked cigars, edited, corresponded.

Two-thirds of the student body saved cuts, (per-
initted class absences), added three days to their
Christmas holiday, leaving Lexington, Friday, De-
cember 17th. Remaining students departed the fol-
lewing Monday. ‘The fever of student life abated,
Lexington resumed her normal temperature, her nat-
ural dignity.

The first period of the new year closed with the

old.

 

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE a

WASHINGTON AND LEE GIVEN WHAT IS
PROBABLY LAST AUTOGRAPH OF
GENERAL LEE

A small photograph of General Robert E. Lee,
upon which it is thought the last autograph of the
general is affixed, is now in the possession of Wash-
ington and Lee University. It makes an interesting
addition to the relics and clippings of General Lee
being assembled by Dr. Wm. M. Brown at the Uni-
versity. The picture was given by Miss Lillie
Heck, one of the few residents of Lexington whose
residence dates back to the time of General Lee,
and is accompanied by a typewritten statement of
the facts connected with it. The story as told by
Miss Heck is as follows:

Her sister had secured a small picture of General
Lee during the last few months before his death,
end had asked her friend, Perey Davidson, then a
student at Washington College (now Washington
and Lee University). to see if he could secure the
general’s signature for her. General Lee was then
the president of Washington College.

Mr. Davidson took the photograph to General
Lee’s office in what is now Lee Memorial Chapel.
He met him just as he was leaving the office. Da-
vidson said that he would return some other time.

“No,” said General Lee, “I will go right back
and do it now.”

He returned and signed the picture, and then
went to his home. which he never left again, as he
was seized with the disease which proved fatal, a
short time after this incident.

Miss Heck states that in her opinion, and in that
of her sister this is the last autograph ever signed
by General Lee.

PHOTOS OF LEE ARE RECEIVED BY
W. & L.

Photographic copies of a life sized portrait of

General Robert E. Lee in civilian clothes, painted
after the war, have been received by Washington

and Lee University. ‘They were sent by Charles A.
2eehn, of Marshall, Texas, owner of the portrait.

This is one of the few portraits of the General
that shows him in civilian clothes. ‘The picture has
been in possession of the Beehn family for 55
vears, having been given to them by a friend, Pete
Menges, because he “did not know General Lee.”

The picture has been exhibited at many fairs and
galleries, and is judged by everyone to be one of the
Lest portraits of the Southern leader that was ever
painted. :

Many offers have been received by the owner, but
up to the present he has refused to sell, preferring
the picture to the money.

ee
TO FIRE PROOF LEE CHAPEL

Adolph S$. Ochs, publisher of the Nez Vo
Times and the Chattanooga Times, who fe ntl
visited Lexington in company with Henry Morge
theau, former ambassador to Turkey, was -
concerned over the dangerous condition ae |
Chapel, due to its need of fire-proofing. At Ath
speaking before the Appalachian Scenic High
Association, Mr. Ochs urged the raising of a Ww
to fire-proof the Chapel, and expressed a willin
ness to contribute. a

The Chapel is now heated from the University
central plant which removes a serious menace, by
there is still great danger to the historic treasur
that are housed there. Electric wires are
ous in the best modern fire-proof construction, ar
the Chapel with its wooden joists, flooring, rafte
and roof-sheathing is not safe. The Chapel is sep.
arated from the mausoleum and the resting place o
the recumbent statue, by a “fire-proof” screen,
even this is not sufficient protection against a ure
conflagration; and the main body of the Chape
contains the many pricéless portraits and the offic
of Gen. Lee with the furnishings in the basement.

The task of properly fire-proofing the Chapel
without in any respect altering its identity or af
pearance, would not be a difficult engineering prob-
lem, but would be costly. The suggestion of -
Ochs if acted upon, would doubtless enlist both
oractical business ability and the substantial fine
cial support of the great publisher. Mr. Ochs is 7
deeply concerned, that he has offered to guarantee $257
000 to defray the cost of fire-proofing the building. s
that it may always be just as it is now.

  
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
      
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
 
  

—=
Ang

LEE’S NIECE TO HAVE CHARGE OF —
CHAPEL a

A niece of General Robert E. Lee has been se
lected by the United Daughters of the Confederacy
as custodian of the Lee Memorial Chapel at Wash-
ington and Lee University, where the former get
eral and his family lie buried. Mrs. Mildred
Francis, of Norfolk, Va. was elected at a fe
meeting of the U. D. C. :

Mrs. Francis assumed her duties in Lexington.
January 1, replacing Mrs. A. S. Edwards who, it
her three years’ guardianship of the shrine, has show
more than 60,000 persons through the resting place of |
Lee. 4

The United Daughters of the Confederacy always”
keep a representative in the Chapel to show the
thousands of visitors the recumbent statue of G 1
eral Lee, his office while President of Washington
and the tomb itself. 4

<
PY
Fy
C

and Lee,

 

= ee

—" =. =

ROCKEFELLER GIFT

Shortly after the first of the New Year, Wash-
ington and Lee received a check from the General
Fducation Board (Rockefeller Foundation) — for
$50,000, covering the amount due upon their pro-
portional subscription to the Endowment Fund.
This subscription which expired on January 1,
1927, was renewed to June 1, 1928.

Due to the expiration of the General Education
Board’s subscription of January 1, 1927, an extra
effort was made to secure collections on delinquent
subscription during December. <A _ special Alumni
Collection Committee was formed with Judge E. C.
Caffrey, ‘09, president of the Alumni, Incorporated,
as chairman. Letters and telegrams were sent out
to delinquent subscribers. Nearly ten thousand dol-
lars was received from this effort alone.

Dr. Smith consulted with the officials of the
Board in New York, reported the total amount
collected for new endowment since the last Gen-
eral Education Board payment was made, and asked
for a renewal of their conditional offer. In view of
the progress made the Board generously granted
this extension, which is the third renewal of their

offer to W.& L. °

This gift of $50,000 makes a total of $259,067.91
received from the Rockefeller Foundation since the
Endowment Campaign was inaugurated in 1920.
Approximately $150,000 may yet be received from
the same source if all past due endowment pay-
ments are funded by the donors within the next
eighteen months.

—_—__-—__—_ —_--

BEQUEST OF MRS. ESTILL

Mrs. Clara Davidson Estill, well known and much
loved resident of Lexington, died on November
23rd after a long illness. Some years ago she trans-
ferred her residence and a large tract of land on
Washington Street to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in exchange for an annuity, and this property
is now in the possession of the university. Out of
her estate, valued at about $25,000, Mrs. Estill
made many interesting and appropriate bequests,
among them being the following items:

The genealogies of the McDowell, Greenlee, Pax-
ton and Grigsby families, prepared by her sister, the
late Miss Mary Davidson, are to be given to Wash-
ington and Lee for preservation among its historical
records; should the university refuse the bequest,
these records are to be given to members of these
families. Also to the university $3,000 is left to
endow a scholarship and this is to be known as the
James D. Davidson Memorial Fund.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

THE WILLIAM M. McELWEE AND ANNIE
HARVEY McELWEE TRUST FUND

Mr. Robert H. McElwee of Chicago, brother of
the President of the Peoples National Bank of Lex-
ington, on December 22nd established a Trust Fund
in honor of his father and mother, the income of
which is to constitute a revolving fund to assist
worthy and deserving students of Washington and
Lee University to obtain such a college education as
shall fit them for future success and leadership as
Christian citizens of our republic.

Mr. McElwee has turned over to the Continental
and Commercial Trust and Savings Bank of Chi-
cago seventy-five shares of the capital stock of the
Continental and Commercial National Bank and dur-
ing the month of January will add_ seventy-five
more, making a Trust Fund to be held and admin-
istered by this bank of 150 shares of stock, it hav-
ing at present a selling value on the New York
Stock Exchange of $67,500.

The income of this Trust Fund is to be every
year turned over to the authorities of Washington
and Lee University to be used as a loan fund for
assisting worthy students who are dependent in
whole or in part upon their own efforts for obtain-
ing their college training, who possess the qualifica-
tions of sound character, intellectual ability, marked
piety and high standing, scholastically and socially.

It is the special purpose of the donor to assist by
this revolving loan fund those students at Washing-
ton and Lee who are looking forward to some form
of Christian life-work such as the ministry, home
or foreign missions, Y. M. C. A. work, etc., but
who are unable to finance themselves through col-
lege without too great a sacrifice of time that should
be spent in study.

The amounts repaid by the beneficiaries are at
once re-loaned to other applicants, and it is under-
stood that the repayment of amounts so loaned shall
rest entirely upon the honor of the beneficiaries.

The founder of this trust fund reserves to him-
self the power to increase the amount of the trust
estate whenever he shall see fit to do so, although
he has no power to withdraw from or diminish the
trust estate in any way.

No memorial to a consecrated minister of the
Gospel and his equally consecrated wife could pos-
sibly be more fitting or better designed to carry on
a minister’s life work than such a loan fund as this,
which will through all future generations aid a long
list of worthy young Americans struggling against
poverty to fit themselves for increased usefulness
and more fruitful citizenship and Christian service
in our great republic.

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

SENIOR HONOR MEDALLION WILL BE
GIVEN HERE

The right to award the Algernon Sydney Sulli-
ven medallion to seniors has been given Washing-
ton and Lee University by the New York Southern
Society, President Henry Louis Smith announced.
There are three other southern schools to whom
the power of awarding the medallion has been given.

The Sullivan medallion was established as the
New York Southern Society’s award medal in mem-
ory of the association’s first president, the late Al-
gernon Sydney Sullivan, to be awarded in various
colleges in recognition of fine qualities of charac-
ter as distinct from fine scholarship.

The offer to Washington and Lee came after a
- committee had been appointed this year to continue
the awarding of the medallion to certain southern
colleges. The matter was brought before the fac-
ulty of Washington and Lee, and later before the
trustees, and it was wholeheartedly accepted.

The purpose of the society is “to have the medal-
lion awarded annually to men and women of gradu-
ating classes, and perhaps to others, in recognition
of admirable spiritual qualities, outstanding and
practically demonstrated in daily living with other
people.

“The award is not made in recognition of excel-
lence in scholarship, or in athletics, or in anything
which purely intellectual or physical ability may gain
distinction. Its aim is to encourage the develop-
inent of the great and beautiful qualities in mankind
which give birth to a spiritual perspective the gen-
erous and disinterested service, and the manifesta-
tion of high ideals. e

At the three colleges where the award has _ been
established, namely: George Peabody College for
Yeachers, Nashville, Tenn.; Antioch College, Yel-
low Springs, Ohio; and William and Mary, Wil-
hamsburg, Va., it is regarded as one of the highest
honors that can be awarded to a student.

This is the first reward of its kind to be offered
for pure spiritual excellence. There is the Roose-
velt medal for specific service to the good of man-
kind, the Nobel prize for literature, and many med-
als for life-saving, but “there has never yet been a
recognition in material form of outstanding quali-
ties of character in men and women.”

The establishment of this medallion at Washing-
ton and Lee is looked upon by the authorities of the
(University as a great compliment to the school, to
its student body, and to‘ its faculty. The Univer-
sity welcomes the right to present the medallion.

 

Tom Duncan, ’24, reports big business with the
McKay Furniture Company of Lakeland, Florida.

  
  
  
  
 
    
  
   
   
 
 
  
  
   
    
   
     
  
  
     

FREEMAN WILL GIVE FOUNDER’s Day
ADDRESS

Douglas Southall Freeman, editor of the Rich
mond News Leader, has been selected as the pri
pal speaker at the annual Founder’s Day exe: is
to be held January 19th. 2

Mr. Freeman has been editor of the News Le,
since 1915, after having served on its editorial ¢
and that of the Richmond Times-Dispatch. :

He is prominent in educational circles. He rr
ceived the A.B. degree from Richmond College i

1904, Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins in 1908, and ,
ceived the honorary degree of LL.D. from Was
ington and Lee, William and Mary, and Richme ‘
College. aan

Mr. Freeman is a member of Phi Beta Kap: pa
the American Historical Association, the Virgini;
Historical Society, the Southern Historical Ciel
and the Academy of Political Science. He is one
of the foremost living authorities on General Le
He is the author of “Robert E. Lee” and the dito:
of the “Calendar of Confederate Papers” and “Lee
Dispatches.” At present Mr. Freeman is engage
in writing a new biography of General Lee.

Dr. Smith says that Dr. Freeman is one of th
most distinguished speakers in the state and that
has a wide reputation for his speeches, especially
those dealing with General Lee, on whom it is t
lieved that he will talk in the Founder’s Day
cress.

-_

SHOEMAKER HERE TELLS STORY OF |
LEE’S DEATH

Probably students who have had the occasion to-
visit shoe shops of Lexington were bewildered by
the slogan of one—‘The man who found Lee’s cof-
fin”— and wondered at the significance of it. Re
cently a Ring-tum Phi reporter was talking to the
owner of the shop and was told a very interesti ig
story by him. F

Several days previous to the death of Genera
Lee a storm broke out in this neighborhood <
North River became a raging torrent. At that tim a
incoming freight was left near the river and onl:
three trips were made each week to bring it to th .
town. Three coffins, ordered by a local merchant —
from Richmond, were washed from the platform
and were lost down the river the day before Gen-
eral Lee’s death. When Lee died, October 12, 1870 4
there were no coffins. Mr. C. G. Chittum, then a
boy of 17 years, found one of the coffins, high and
dry, below the present location of the bridge. a
was this coffin which was used for the interment Of
General Lee. =

 

Po ore 7,

Pee

,

i a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

ee Chapel Visited by Travellers of Old World and Nation Now

From indications of the last year and particularly
the past month it may clearly be seen that interest
the South and in General Robert E. Lee is rap-

in
‘diy increasing, not only in our own country but in
many foreign ones as well. Mrs. A. S. Edwards,

custodian of the Chapel, said recently that national
and international interest in our great Southern
shrine, the tomb of Lee, is growing each month.
“Several people,” she said, “have remarked that they
admire the recumbent statue of Lee more than the
tomb of Napoleon. Each represents the character
of the man it glorifies. The tomb of Napoleon is
glaring, showy and selfish, but the monument of
Lee reflects dignity, character, kindliness and is the
genuine expression of a people’s love for him.”

That interest in the shrine by people of other
countries as well as our own is increasing may be
shown by the following report gathered from the
Chapel register:

From England there were three visitors during the
past month, two from Leeds and one from London.

From Milan, Italy, there was one.

From China there were three, who are Univer-
sity of Chicago students.

From Brazil there were three.

From Porto Rico there was one.

From Copenhagen, Denmark, there was one.

From Germany there were two.

From Zurich, Switzerland, there was one, which
makes a total of thirteen, representing eight foreign
countries. During the year from October 1, 1925,
to October 1, 1926, 33,178 persons visited the Chapel
which is an increase of 8,366 over last year. During
the month of September alone the gain over last
year amounted to 2,111 which clearly shows that
more and more people are coming all the time.

One interesting event during the month was a
marriage ceremony, performed in the chapel by a
party visiting here.

A number of prominent persons were guests dur-
ing the month, among them being Mrs. J. W. Lee
and Mrs. R. E. Lee of Norfolk, Va., kinsmen of
General Lee.

Mrs. Edwards stated that she hoped that the stu-
dents would show more interest in the chapel and
come to visit it, for it is the seat of much of the tra-
dition of Washington and Lee.

 

 

Cosmopolitan Student Body Fnrolled Here

W. and L. has students from many sections of the
country. On the register this year are students
from thirty-four different states and four different
countries. This shows that the University is known
throughout the nation and throughout the world as
well.

The register shows as follows:

Mlabama .. . .s\s.5:0ad © 6 bids one eS pounce Bodie 39
Merkansas .. .. sw <cechelnste cls au en ses 30
Salifornia ;....c.¢h +e ts nate. 2
BDlorado .... .. ss. chaise Oe! beans l
Sonnecticut -.. ...c0 bchic ied ob 2 Ee adc a ies 4
District of Coltiiabia. .. . 2. > + chee eee eens os 16
Blorida ... osc se cuau 555 eae dn 57
BSCOTOIA occ cath hc cle nic Se ees hee od 27
Maho .... ... Pos bce. Fen eas, 1
Blinois ..... isn genel. cs. os <3 13
AMdiana . ...s: 55 pecs ieee yc ee a: 2
mansas of ees ve ce 1 a ee ss 2
Bentucky . Sess 51 ac bon ee ee > 42
Louisiana ...; vcruch cco cate 27
Maine . 2... cme ee on enc ae ]
Maryland . .scin ts ehinte asel+ 4 Sees} 31

Maseachtieetts: oc. s:c0is idee. A. 2.5. eee 7
eel i a Sa ee 2
MinMeMbOG!. . . isda fk eee + 6S eee es - cae 29
WIAMMIMOIEE aks. . «oats - Mages acs o Eas se eee 9
New < Flampshire > 0.5 .co'0) 0sis< Saba. - . ois 2
TN Ree oe eee PP eee 28
New. Mexico... . scp een bends Faiclbis weeks s Eee 3
meray Oni < io'2 Ns aa oa Beaks wks uled  « hive oh 38
morth Carolitia 2:0 ds we. .: 20s ae ks ls ee 25
5 ese eS se 25
Sereeionne. <..°. 35 css eae ae's + 2 < (ne = 10
Penmneyivatia of. 5. sc.ms cab ots © oo ooo on 38
east Cavolitio 236 .dack Wat OM iS 24
mameasee 3... it mete evn .. Cees). See 60
ee SS cc, La We aides S sin wlohe caer» 56
ROMS 8 oleae . co aaee sks ss Sa aie 195
meet: Virginia 4 0).06 65 eG SS aes. . 49
"CC ere ae wate re 1
SUUUNOIN”, . <\ cos Soba od OY Gdn ebb pbiead'o 0 00 gel a
EOEICO. .. oncaeid « 0's ones aM beee es «es Bee 2
POTD, > v'swdis os dleb ook» oe 0 ole ee 1

The total number of students registered....... 902

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE WESTMINSTER ABBEY OF THE CON-
FEDERACY, LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

(By CuHarites Ervine Criarkson, Fayetteville, Ark.)

O ye who walk these quiet streets
With careless steps and free,

Tread softly as on hallowed soil
Beside the tomb of Lee.

Within the classic college hall,
Where angels vigil keep,

Our Southern hero lies at rest
In blissful, dreamless sleep.

A marble shaft stands sentinel
Above a grass-grown mound—

Immortal Stonewall bivouacks there,
That spot is holy ground.

Throughout our sunny Southland fair,
Enshrined in memory,

We'll keep for’er these sacred names,
Great Jackson—peerless Lee!

 

PHYSICAL EXAMINATION SHOWED VIR-
GINIA FRESHMEN OUTSTRIPPED
TEXANS

Drs. ‘Twombly and Mathis, Lexington’s Mayo
brothers, after completing the physical examination
of the 341 new freshmen, reported that the class as
a whole is in very good condition and fully recov-
ered from the recent psychological examination.
The average age was a little better than seventeen
years, while the height ranged from an even five
feet to six feet, five inches. All records for windi-
ness and blowing ability, formerly held by Texans,
were smashed when Hawkins, brother of the fa-
mous “Red’’, and a native Virginian, blew the top
off the instrument used for the testing of lung ca-
pacity. Texas also bowed to the Old Dominion in
regards to the size of its native sons.

 

FANCY DRESS NAMED

The “Carnival at Venice” has been selected as the
theme for the 1927 Fancy Dress Ball, February 2nd,
and with the recent appointment of T. W. Mene-
fee as secretary-treasurer and W. J. Dorsey as his
assistant, plans are rapidly reaching completion for
the annual dance which throughout this section of
the country is noted for its brilliance.

The theme was originated by Professor C. E. L.
Gill, who is in charge of the decorations and cos-
tumes again this year. Work has already begun on
the decorations and immediately following the holi-
days students will order their costumes. X

    
 
    
   
   
    
   
 
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
  
    
  

R. E. LEE HOTEL FORMALLY OPENED

Mary Custis Lee Chapter U. D. C. owned
operated the new Robert E. Lee Hotel the even;
of November 15th, when it was formally opened |
the public. They served the first meal in the ne :
hostelry and their representative, Mr. W. LeCo
Stevens, raised the United States flag, the gift
the Kiwanis Club. a

Capt. M. B. Corse presided at the happy gatt a
ing and introduced Mr. Hugh White, who on beha |
of the company, presented the new hotel to Lexine
ton. Mr. White very entertainingly sketched ¢
development of Lexington from the days when
was said of it, “As it was in the beginning, is noy
and ever shall be. Amen,” to the present auspiciot ou
circumstances. <

On behalf of the city of Lexington, Mr. Ma
hew W. Paxton accepted the company’s gift to # 1
community and paid an eloquent tribute to the e
terprise of the men who visioned and financed thi
handsome hostelry, and in glowing terms picture
the material and spiritual wealth of Lexington an
the Old Dominion. a

The formal meeting closed with the presentatior
of the flag by Dr. William M. Brown, on behalf o
the Kiwanis Club. Dr. Brown made a very g i
ful address, closing with the introduction of he
flag-raiser, as the only god-daughter of Gen. Lee
named after the State and the General, Virgini:
Lee Letcher. a

Mrs. Stevens then sent the Stars and Stripes
aloft, a portrait of General Lee was placed, and
new hotel was formally opened. The U. D.
ladies then served a delightful supper, the prog
going to the chapter’s fund. -

‘h
-
. a
©

 

‘ '
aad

FROSH HEAR ADDRESSES AT ASSIMI-
LATION MEET

The second regular weekly assimilation meeting
of the freshman class was held in the Lee ape
under the direction of Dr. B. A. Wooten. Dr. E. F
Shannon, head of the English Department, was the
first speaker and gave an interesting talk on the fa-
mous libraries of the world. He was followed by
Miss Blanche P. McCrum, college librarian, who
presented facts on the effect books have had on some
men’s lives.

Miss McCrum told the freshmen of Andrew Cat
negie who came to America a poor immigrant E oy
and received his start towards wealth through ead-
ing of steel process. Dr. Shannon was very opti-
mistic on the future of the Congressional Library 1
Washington, and stated that he believed that !

would in time be the greatest library in the world. —

2
F *,

r

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

Rauber

The brilliance of one particular star outshines all
others,—is a compass guide, substitutes for unseen
glories.

|. J. Rauber, known as “Ty,” Captain of the 1926
Generals, is a recognized star of the first magnitude.
His performance added bulk to the margin of victo-
ries, his recognition by the sporting south salved the
defeats at the hands of West Virginia, Georgia Tech,
Virginia.

Chosen as fullback on the mythical All-Southern
Eleven, on the All-South Atlantic Eleven, on the All-
State Eleven, on the Associated Press All-American
Third Team, the 1926 Captain enters the Washing-
ton and Lee Hall of Football Fame.

This one hundred and seventy-two pounds of
brawn, well. distributed over a “five-foot ten” inch
frame work, came to W. and L. from the Central
High School of Washington, D. C. His home is in
Maryland. He is a product of his high school
coach and “Jimmy” DeHart. He played fullback on
the \W. and L. freshman team, quarterback on the
1924 Varsity, fullback in 1925 and 1926. He became
most famous as a line plunger, then as a punter, and
passer. Less conspicuous has been his effective de-
fense work backing up the line. He is a member of
the Kappa Alpha fraternity, a good student, a _re-
sponsible campus citizen.

Press comments on Southern Conference players
this year were unanimous in their praise of Rauber.
In picking an All-Southern team the Atlanta Geor-
gian-American said: “Of the three outstanding full-
backs, Rauber is unquestionably the most able man.
In addition to great strength in bucking the line,
Rauber-can kick or pass and is a defensive star. He
is also rated as one of the best blockers on off tackle
plays in the Southern Conference. Rauber is named
Captain of the All-Southern team by virtue of his
all-around performance for the year.”

The Atlanta Journal said: “Those who saw Rau-
ber play against Tech will not concede his equal in
the South. In addition to his bucking he is as good
on the defense and he is a brilliant forward passer.
There are other good fullbacks, but none that meas-
ure up to Rauber.”

The Atlanta Constitution said: “In Rauber we
have the greatest line smashing back in the confer-
ence. ‘The Washington and Lee fullback weighs
less than 170 pounds but he hits the line like a ton
of steel and has a hip action which virtually defies
tacklers while he is still in motion. Rauber played
a mediocre line throughout the season but seldom
did he get the ball that he did not register a gain.
He also passes well, blocks well when called upon to
do so and kicks passably well.”

 

—- -
3 7 x= baa ee
Ce con a eg 7 7
mw we? ee Tea be Rte Ge

cs am (ieee es

‘ee

lL. J. Rauser, ’27
“Safe, steady, heady, spirited”

 

 

In every city where the Generals played this year,
Rauber was picked by sports writers as one of the
greatest players of all time. From the Princeton
game the Brooklyn Daily Eagle picked him for All-
American. The Lexington, Kentucky, papers were
as unanimous in their choice of Rauber for All-
Southern fullback as were the Atlanta papers.

A safe, steady, heady, hard driving, clean cut,
spirited player, “Ty” Rauber has demonstrated the
greatest gentlemanly sportsmanship, has reflected glory
upon his Alma Mater.

Wyatt C. Hedrick, °10, is an architect in Fort
Worth, Texas, his address being 1005 First National
Bank Building.

WRESTLING SQUADS GETTING IN SHAPE

Coach Mathis is sending his twenty-six Varsity
and thirty-two freshmen wrestling aspirants through
daily drills in the Doremus Gymnasium. The prac-
tices have been in session for several weeks and the
men are now said to be in good shape.

The Varsity squad is composed of a large number
of men who have had previous experience while a
few are trying out for the first time. Prospects are
bright for a great team with several monogram men
of last year available and numeral men of last year’s
freshman team on hand.

Burton, Driver, Ruel, Seligman, Walters and Holt
are the letter men that are expected out. Seligman
and Holt will. probably be back after the football
season ends. Ruel and Walters are already taking
part in practice and Burton and Driver are expected
to start training soon.

The first meet of the season for the Varsity will
be the first part of January with Franklin and Mar-
shall here.

= -—

BOAT CREWS WILL HAVE NEW SHELLS

The Harry Lee and Albert Sidney boat crews are
to receive new shells at last.

This was definitely decided at a meeting of the
Athletic Council. An appropriation of $1,500 was
made for the purpose, and officials authorized to start
negotiations at once concerning the purchasing of
the new equipment for the two University crews
who become deadly rivals for one afternoon during
the Finals.

Both Marion M. Junkin, captain of the Albert
Sidney crew, and George D. Varney, captain of the
Harry Lee crew, expressed their pleasure last night
upon learning of the Athletic Council’s decision.

It has been known for some time that the shells
of the two crews were becoming out-of-date, and
that new ones were needed. The new shells will be
purchased as soon as bids may be decided upon and
a selection made.

_—_--__—_——_

1927 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
Sept. 24—Pending.

Oct. 1—West Virginia University, at Charleston

Oct. 8—Duke University, here.

Oct. 15—Princeton, at Princeton, N. J.

Oct. 22—University of Kentucky, at Lexington,
Ky.

Oct. 29—Open.

Nov. 5—University of Virginia, here.

Nov. 12—V. P. I., at Blacksburg.

Nov. 19—University of Maryland, at College
Park.

Nov. 24—University of Florida, at Jacksonville.

FOOTBALL MONOGRAM WINNERS —

WASHINGTON AND LEE BASKETBALL |

The Washington and Lee basketball schedule for
the winter was announced

opened

17. The full schedule is as follows:

Dec.
Dec.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Jan.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.
Feb.

TENTATIVE BASEBALL SCHEDULE, 1e27

March 24—Springfield, at home.
March 28—G.

March 29—Ga.
March 30—S. C. State, there.
March 31—S. C. State, there.

April
April
April
April
April
April

- mys
to

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE a |

.
“a

L. J. Rauber, Captain
B. B. Tips, Captain-elect
W. W. Palmer

C. Whitlock

. H. White

G. Rector

. F. Groop

. M. Holt

A. Fitzpatrick

. S. Spotts

FE. Bailey

P. Stearns

. F. Howe

W. J. Dorsey

J. B. Towill

K. A. Durham

R. S. Barnett, Manager
J. P. Herron, Coach.

ee ae ee eee

 

 

SCHEDULE

recently. The seas on
with a game here with Maryland on Decemb er

17—Maryland, away.

18—Catholic University, away.

7—Bridgewater, at home.

10—William and Mary, at home.

13—Richmond, at home.

17—Lincoln Memorial, at home.

22—North Carolina State, at home.

29—Davis and Elkins, at home.

4—Kentucky, away.

5—West Virginia, away.

11—Duke, at home.

12—V. P. I., away.

15—South Carolina, at home.

18—Virginia, away.

23—V. P. I., at home.

26—Southern Conference ‘Tournament,
lanta, Ga.

 

A. Tech, there.
Tech, there.

1—Duke, there.

2—Duke, there.

7—Cornell, at home.

8—Cornell, at home.
13—University of Penn., at home.
14—University of Penn., at home.

ie ty b
at ae Po
+a Sa

 

“~~ = er +e

7 rr? "st *

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Football Resume

On paper the 1926 Generals had a weak line, ex-
cepting the veterans, Holt and Spotts, and a swift
and powerful backfield. Coach Herron and his as-
sistants set out to strengthen the weak positions and
co-ordinate the strong. The result was a team that
‘nflamed the hopes of the most pessimistic.

As expected, Lynchburg College was defeated, the
University of West Virginia was victorious; unex-
pected, Princeton was tied 7-7. The Princeton game
ended the first chapter, set the dope pot boiling, made
the Generals the cynosure of all football eyes. <A
14-13 victory over the strong University of Ken-
tucky team strengthened the hopes of W. & L. sup-
porters, but presaged the downfall. Georgia Tech,
the Waterloo, won 19-7. The University of Vir-
ginia completed the humiliation, 30-7, in the annual
Big Game. The second chapter was a justification.
V. P. I., strongest team in the state at that date, was
defeated 13-0. Maryland, who tied Yale, bowed to
the Generals 3-0. Florida was tied 7-7. Thus
ended the satisfactory season.

The preliminaries, Lynchburg College and West
Virginia, need no comment. Outfought and_ out-
generaled by the Washington and Lee team, the
Princeton Tigers, for three years champions of the
big three, were fortunate to escape with a tie. Once
the Generals tried a short drop kick and missed;
then Tips, guard, recovered a fumble, raced for a
touchdown ahead of perfectly formed interference.
Again a drop kick was tried and missed; again the
ball was worked up to the fifteen yard marker. A
pass over the goal line was tried and missed as the
final whistle blew. These scoring positions were
achieved by the line plunging of Rauber, the end
running of Palmer and Whitlock. On the de-
fence the supposedly weak General line blocked the
Princeton attack, stopped the famed all-American
ace, Slagle. Only once was the Jine broken, then a
Tiger glided through for a sixty yard run and
touchdown.

The Kentucky game was a toss-up with the Gen-
erals the favorites of fortune by a one-point mar-
gin. Rauber bucked and Whitlock ran, but Ken-
tucky passed, long passes and short passes, lateral,
angular and foward, to two touchdowns in the first
half. Kentucky again passed, but into the arms of
Whitlock and a touchdown in the second half.
Rauber, Palmer and Whitlock plowed through the
Kentucky line for the second marker. Rauber
kicked both goals, thus securing the margin of vic-
tory.

Captain Ty Rauber reached the peak of his foot-
ball career against Georgia Tech, only to lose 19-7.
He battered the famed Tech line for a touchdown

in the first four minutes of play. He passed, punted
and bucked heroically; bruised and battered he was
carried off the field in the second half amidst “the
greatest ovation ever given an athlete on Grant
Field.” Fumbles, injuries and a rejuvenated golden
tornado caused the defeat.

In Charlottesville for the Gig Game of the season
the Generals were favored to win. They were
swamped. Only once did the Blue and White team
show its true form. This drive netted a touchdown.
The carefully coached defense crumbled. Cavalier
passes went true for long gains. General fumbles
caused serious losses. The varied attack, trick
plays, passes, end runs, brought Virginia a_ well
earned victory, 30-7, over a team that had defeated
her thrice in three successive years. Fumbles, in-
juries and superior playing brought about the Gen-
erals’ humiliation.

Revenge was wreaked upon V. P. I. in Lynch-
burg. Mike Palmer, encumbered with the respon-
sibilities of team generalship, resumed his place as
a star ground gainer. Rauber passed, Palmer and
Whitlock received. Palmer and Whitlock ran
around the ends, Rauber punted and bucked. The
line held. The stubborn V. P. I. team yielded to a
13-0 defeat. The game was featured by almost per-
fect team work in every department of play.

Maryland came to Lexington fresh from a 13-13
tie with Yale. A home coming crowd gathered at
Wilson Field on a cold, dismal day to see the Gen-
erals hammer the Maryland team down the field to
the twenty yard line, the five yard line, the one
yard line, then lose the ball; a process that was
thrice repeated. Stubborn, mulish, the Maryland
stonewall would not yield under the goal post. On
his second attempt Captain Rauber dropped a place
kick over the bar, scoring the only tally of the re-
lentless play. Score, W. & L., 3—Maryland, 0.
Again Palmer, Whitlock, Rauber and Holt starred.

The same inability to deliver the final punch cost
the W. and L. team a tie with the University of
Florida before a huge Thanksgiving crowd in Jack-
sonville. . The same combination, Rauber, Whitlock
and Palmer, scored a touchdown, scored another
only to fumble the ball behind the goal line, saw a
Florida player receive a pass in the last few minutes
of play, run sixty yards for a touchdown, saw the
game end 7-7.

In conclusion, it appears that the 1927 team was
largely manufactured. The product was surprisingly
strong. Possibilities were consequently over-rated.
If a confident and inspiring team psychology (soul)
could have been manufactured, Washington and
Lee would boast the Southern Championship today.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

COACH HERRON GOES HOME

Coach J. P. Herron, Varsity football mentor, left
for his home in Pittsburgh, and his assistant, J. K.
Thomas, also left for his home, Charleton, West
Virginia, where he will practice law.

Herron, a graduate of the University of Pittsburgh
law school, has a regular practice in the Smoky
City, and does not actively engage in athletics except
during the football season and the spring training
period.

En route from Jacksonville, Herron stopped off
at Duke University and saw Jimmy DeHart, former
coach here, and his assistants, former General Cap-
tains Eddie Cameron and W. E. Tilson. The three
North Carolina coaches saw the Generals in action
at one time or another during the past season.

The exact date for the beginning of spring foot-
ball practice here has not been set, according to ath-
letics, although it is probable that it will get under
way early in March.

RESEARCH COMMITTEE NAMED BY
PRESIDENT

The six student body leaders who were elected
recently to conduct a research on student  scholar-
ship and the best methods of advancing it are: K.
A. Durham, R. M. Holt, L. S. Stemmons, R. W.
Simmons, W. G. Sale, Jr., and J. M. Holt. These
men received the highest number of votes and have
been appointed by Dr. H. L. Smith as a Research
Committee on Student Scholarship for the session
of 1926-27 at Washington and Lee.

The first duty of the committee is to make an in-
vestigation of present conditions, handicaps, advan-
tages, and other matters at Washington and Lee.
Certain suggestions as to a questionnaire will be sent
to the members to aid them in their work.

The leading institutions throughout the country
have adopted the idea of a student research commit-
tee in order that the college training may become
more effective.

Dr. Smith regards the compliment paid these six
men by their fellow-students as one of the highest
honors on the campus.

NEW BAND MADE BIG HIT AT GAME

The Washington and Lee band made a wonderful
appearance during the football games, attired in
their atractive new uniforms, worn for the first time
at the Virginia game in Charlottesville. Lining up
in spread formation at one end of the field, the band
marched up the field and then formed a “W. & L.”
They played the Swing and then, a bit later, formed
a “V” and played the Virginia school song. —

The band played at frequent intervals during the

&

  
   
 
   
 
 
 
    
   
   
   
    
   
  
    
   
   
  

game and helped to keep up the fighting spiel
the end. They led the parade to the stadium befor
the game. _

—_—_—_———

FRATERNITY MEN AGREE ON RU

In a meeting of fraternity men held in Lee Cha 7
Thursday night, November 11, resolutions we
adopted covering conduct in fraternity he es
These resolutions had been passed by the Inter-Fra ai
ternity Council and were presented to the gatherir r
by F. B. Waters. |

The resolutions were as follows:

Resolutions Adopted by Inter-Fraternity Council iy
Meeting Assembled October 11th, 1926, —

Wuereas: The fraternities at Washington an
lee in the past have been subjected to unfavorabl
criticism and comment, largely resultant from uw
chaperoned parties or affairs at which young la .
were present at a rather late hour; and —

WuereAs: The fraternities are cognizant oem
fact that such criticism reflects not only upon th
good name of the fraternities involved, but als
upon that of the University. a

It is their earnest desire that such conditions / ;
remedied, and to that end through medium of th *
Inter-Fraternity Council, Be It Hereby Resolved: e

Firstly: Within the chapter houses of any fra
ternities at this University there shall be permi ec
no music later than one hour after any dance held i
Doremus gymnasium.

Secondly: ‘There shall be no dancing in any fra
ternity house on Sunday. ‘The above regulation a
ing particularly applicable to the early morning howe
of the morning following a dance on Saturday nig

These regulations were unanimously passed by t
eighteen fraternities in council meeting—one fra-
ternity being without representation. a

“
Ae

 

PROHIBITION LOSES IN INTERESTING ~
OXFORD-WASHINGTON AND LEE |
DEBATE

Prohibition lost by a vote of 267 to 199 in an of if
forum debate at the Lee Chapel between the de re
ing team of Oxford University, England, and Was
ington and Lee. The question before the house w
“This house would regret any change in ‘the ‘Ejight-—
eenth Amendment.” The representatives of th
two schools were divided in the debate, two Oxford —
men and one Washington and Lee man taking a
negative, and two Washington and Lee men and one ~
Oxford man the affirmative. A packed house on
oughly enjoyed the occasion and the puns and df
wit and humor of the speakers kept the audieall in
en uproar. The speakers from Oxford were pat
ticularly pleasing in their humorous remarks. Bee

aa

THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE 15

Faculty Introductions

Dr. E. F. SHANNON

Dr. Edgar Finley Shannon, authority on Chaucer
and on the Anglo-Saxon language, native Ken-
tuckian, graduate of Centre College, A. B. of Har-
vard University, A. M. and Ph. D., is Professor
and Head of the Department of English at Wash-
ington and Lee.

‘He began teaching Latin and Greek in the Uni-
versity of Arkansas, then taught Knglish and became
Head of the English Department. During this time
he took summer courses at the University of Chi-
cago, at Leipzig, Germany, at Harvard University,
and with two years’ leave of absence completed his
work for M. A. and Ph. D. at Harvard in 1912.

Further promotion came after his return to the
University of Arkansas. Dr. Shannon was made
Dean of the College of Arts and Sciences. He
published articles on Chaucer, on Philology, ete.,
became Chairman of the Chaucer group in the Mod-
ern Language Association of America.

After serving for seventeen years at the Univer-
sity of Arkansas, Dr. Shannon accepted the position
left vacant by Dr. W. S. Currell at Washington and
Lee, after that able teacher became President of the
University of South Carolina. He has filled the
Chair of English at Washington and Lee since 1914.

Last March, Dr. Shannon prepared and_ edited
with Prof. C. ‘T. Goode, “An Atlas of English Lat-
erature.” This is the first atlas of English litera-
ture ever published and has elicited the heartiest
endorsement by Professors of English.

Sut Dr. Shannon's chief interest is Chaucer. He
has long been engaged in research work on the life
and works of the author of the Canterbury Tales.
Last year he secured a leave of absence from the
University and went to Italy and England to do
further research work on this subject. He expects
to publish the results of his studies of Chaucer’s re-
lation to the Latin Classics in book form, soon.

APPOINT COMMITTEE FOR MUSIC AND
DRAMATICS

The last meeting of the Executive Committee of
the Faculty heartily approved the suggestion of the
President that a Faculty Committee on Musical and
Dramatic Organizations should be appointed and
added to the regular faculty committees in charge
of athletics, social functions, fraternities, etc.

The President therefore has appointed for the
session of 1926-27, the appointment effective at
once, Professors John A. Graham, C. E. L. Gill,
and William Coan.

 

Dr. E. F. SHANNON, “Authority on Chaucer”

Lean, scholarly, dignified, Dr. Shannon ably fills
‘he important chair which he holds, ably heads the
important Department of English.

 

 

VAN HORN NOW PLAYING PRO
FOOTBALL

Charlie Van Horn, star center on 1925 Generals,
is now playing professional football with the New-
ark, N. J.,

sition. Van Horn played two years on the football

Bears. He is holding down a guard po-

team while in Washington and Lee and one year on
the basketball quintet. Due to his height and ability
he held the position of center on both teams.

Harmon Foster Ottley, 09, is in general insur-
ance business, Rochester, N. Y.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

KAPPA ALPHA HOUSE JUST BOUGHT IS
HOME OF THE MOTHER CHAPTER

The Washington and Lee Chapter of Kappa AI-
pha (Southern) consummated recently its purchase
of the Webster property on Letcher avenue for
$20,000.00. ‘The house is now occupied by the fra-
ternity.

The cash payment made on the property repre-
sents a sum that has been raised over a period of
years by Captain Greenlee D. Letcher of Lexing-
ton, an -alumnus, for the purpose of erecting at
Washington and Lee a Kappa Alpha Memorial.
The fraternity was founded at Washington and
Lee April 9, 1866. ‘The fund was loaned to the
chapter to be paid back in the ultimate view of
erecting the memorial.

Of the four founders, only one survives, Dr.
Stanhope M. Scott, of Terra Alta, W. Va. Dr.
Scott was in Lexington last commencement.

In commemoration of the founding, the national
organization will place a bronze tablet in what is
row the museum, where was located the room in
which the first chapter was organized. The build-
ing will be recalled by some as an old dormitory
known as “Cat Tail.”

TWELVE YEARS AGO

Only 67 freshmen were pledged to the 14 social
fraternities in 1914.
ok * *
The total enrollment of students in 1914 numbered
467. Of these 145 were in the law school. There
were 26 states and two foreign countries repre-

sented in the student body.
x * *

Pi Alpha Nu and White Friar goats were made.

to sing, trot to classes, answer any questions, cuckoo,
and perform many funny antics in 1914. Times
haven’t changed so much.
- *.
Forrest Fletcher, of Notre Dame, was appointed
head track coach in 1914.

x *« *

Omicron Delta Kappa, honorary society for the
recognition of college leadership, was established at
Washington and Lee in 1914.

Dr. BottiInc LEE AND Mrs. Mary LEE AGREE.

The long controversy between Mrs. Mary M. Lee
and Dr. George Bolling Lee has been settled out of
court. Dr. Lee pays Mrs. Lee $30,000 and she sur-
renders to him the estates of White House in Kent
County, and Ravensworth in Fairfax County, along
with the family heirlooms.

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
 
  

PHI BETA KAPPA MEMORIAL DEpI.
CATED AT WILLIAM AND MARY |
COLLEGE

A great meeting of members of Phi Beta Kap;
the scholarship fraternity of the country, was hel,
Saturday at William and Mary College at Williams
burg, Va. ‘The occasion was the formal dedication
of Phi Beta Kappa Memorial Hall by the Uniteg
Chapters of Phi Beta Kappa. The hall is a memo-
rial to the fifty founders of the society which ¢: a
into being at William and Mary College at Williar
burg on December 5, 1776. The principal speakers
were Dr. Henry Van Dyke of Princeton, Dr. Osea;
M. Voorhees, secretary of the United Chapters,
Dr. John Finley of the New York Times. r

The memorial hall provides William and Mary
college with a handsome auditorium with a sez ing
capacity of 1,500, and contains interesting features
recalling the foundation of Phi Beta Kappa. RE p-
resentatives of the organization were present from
all over the country. Dr. Robert H. Tucker repre-
sented Virginia Gamma Chapter at Washington ar
Lee.
MEMORANDUM OF PAST DUE SUBSCRIP-

TIONS TO THE ENDOWMENT FUND |

Not counting as due any subscriptions “payable -
within five years” where that time has not —

1926

JATIAL Yes. n 0x5 ods gncnoo.> §0:0)010 023 bi
February 0:8 dsigc'ks (Anes sie 0 Ve
Maven So; ssi che oi eee?

JOLY ck aR ie wae Cos es, Scie ee oe
A UUIRE Caer. 5 iv 0 ducts 480, Fo
nt
Octohet sick shite idee ice
November 9... 285s 6 eles. cod bled Soba

Decemper 53 SS, Nite. See

Total «is cad octet pee fine a
Decemeber 17, 1926.

 

Dean Harry D. Campbell recently represented the —
University at the annual meeting of the Association —
of Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern — F
States, at Jackson, Miss. Mrs. Campbell accom-_
panied him South. a

 

John M. Glenn, ’79, represented Washington andl |
Lee at the inauguration of Dr. Henry Sloane Coffin —
at the Union Theological Seminary, of New Yous =
City, on November 4th. a

| oe

 

i a = = =

THE ALUMNI

WITH THE FACULTY

Dr. James L. Howe recently attended a meeting
of the Chemical Association in Richmond.

President Henry Louis Smith made a gripping
address before the Older Boys’ Conference at Lynch-
burg recently, basing his talk on the three elemental
hungers of a man’s or boy’s life.

Dr. and Mrs. James W. Kern expect to spend the
winter in New Orleans, with their son, James W.
Kern, Jr.. who spent Thanksgiving here. They left
the middle of December.

Dr. Glover D. Hancock and Dr. John O. Lofberg.
of the Washington and Lee faculty, filled parts on
the program at the State educational conference re-
cently held at Roanoke, Virginia.

Graduate Manager Richard A. Smith and Pro-
fessor Forest Fletcher attended the annual meeting
of the Southern Conference in Jacksonville, Florida.

Dr. Hoyt represented Washington and Lee at the
International Congress of Sciences held at Cornell
in August, Washington and Lee being one of the
two southern universities represented on the pro-
gram. Dr. Hoyt’s topic was “Periodic Fruition of
Dicyota and Its Relation to the Environment.”

Mr. Fitzgerald Flournoy. associate professor of
English at Washington and Lee. addressed the con-
vention of the United Daughters of the Confederacy
at Richmond, on the evening of November 18th.

The historical address to the convention is made
annually by some authority on Confederate history,
and such an invitation implies a compliment of the
highest order to the scholarly ability and attainment
of the educator to whom it may be extended.

Professor William M. Brown has volunteered as
psychologist for the juvenile court, to work with
Judge Stuart Moore in testing the mentality of per-
sons brought before the court.

e-- +

MORRISON PORTRAITS

The remainder of the fund contributed by W. and
I.. alumni for placing a bronze tablet to the memory
of Wm. M. Morrison, ’83, in the Lee Chapel, was
used for having two life-sized photographic enlarge-
ments made. One of the portraits was presented by
the memorial committee, Hon. Greenlee D. Letcher,
Chairman, to Rockbridge County. The other was
presented to Washington and Lee.

\ formal presentation of the photograph to the
county was made at the Rockbridge County Court
House in Lexington by Col. Letcher. Short talks
were made by Hon. H. St. G. Tucker, ’75, and Judge
Henry W. Holt, ’88. Another copy of the picture
may be sent to the Congo mission which Dr. Morri-
Son SO ably served.

MAGAZINE 17

ELLARD LEAVES WORK HERE FOR REST

A complete physical breakdown, brought about by
overwork and a severe attack of grippe, made it nec-
essary for the board of trustees of Washington and
Lee University to grant to Professor R. B. Ellard a
leave of absence for this year.

Professor Ellard left about November first for
Catawba Sanitorium, situated in the mountains near
Roanoke, to take a cure. It is hoped that he will be
able to return to Lexington and resume his work in
the Lee Memorial School of Journalism next year.

General Robert E. Lee planned the school of
journalism many years ago, but at his untimely death
progress stopped, and not until last year did his plans
actually materialize. Generous subscriptions from
leading southern newspapers enabled the board of
trustees to secure the services of Professor Ellard,
and the school was officially opened in September,
1925.

Professor Ellard came here from Beloit College
in Wisconsin. He is a graduate of Missouri Uni-
versity, at which school he taught last summer. It
was here that he contracted the cold which ultimately
ended in his breakdown.

The Lee Memorial School of Journalism now has
an enrollment of close to 75 students, and offers six
courses in news writing, criticisms and advertising.

Professor Ellard was very active in both boxing
and wrestling last year. He was a perfect specimen
of manhood and his breakdown came as a great sur-
prise and shock to all those who knew him and
leoked for his guidance in journalism this year.

During the absence of Professor Ellard, his as-
sistant, Howard M. Thompson, is acting director of
the school.

DR. BROWN TELLS FROSH HOW TO
STUDY

An address by Dr. W. M. Brown, head of the
Education and Psychology department, featured the
compulsory meeting of all members of the freshman
class in Lee Chapel. “How to Study” was Dr.
Rrown’s subject, and he gave a very thorough and
helpful lecture from both the educational and psy-
chological sides of the question, on the different
methods of studying that freshmen would find in-
valuable in their work. This meeting was one of
the “assimilation” group planned for new men by
the University in an effort to acquaint them with
University life and conditions.

J. Morton Eggleston, ’18, writes us, “Expect to
see W. & L. beat Princeton next year.” So do we
all!

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

NOTES ON ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT

(Proressor R. W. Dickey, 710)

The department of Electrical Engineering has _ re-
cently installed a motion picture projector which will
be used for instruction. Motion pictures of the op-
eration of electrical equipment will be shown to the
students at regular intervals.

Some changes will probably be made in the cur-
riculum for the B. S. degree in Electrical Engineer-
ing, whereby a student may obtain work in electro-
chemistry.

The head of the department, Dr. R. W. Dickey,
. spent six weeks during the summer vacation as the
guest of the General Electric Company of Schenec-
tady, New York, at its Professors’ Conference.
This conference is held annually and is intended to
give instructors an opportunity to familiarize them-
. selves with factory problems in the production of
clectrical equipment. ‘Twenty electrical engineering
schools were represented at the last conference.

 

DEPARTMENT OF MATHEMATICS
(Proressor L. W. Smrru, *96)

With the increase in the enrollment at the Uni-
versity, the number of students in the department
of Mathematics has grown also. The first year
course being required for all degrees, eleven sections
are necessary in the freshman class, and _ the total
number of students in this course is about 275. Be-
sides the regular course in Algebra, Solid Geome-
try and Plane Trigonometry, a course is given for
students in Commerce and also a special course for
engineering students.

The other classes in Analytic Geometry, Calculus.
and Differential Equations are taught as heretofore.

The personnel of the department is Dr. L. W.
Smith, head of the department, Associate-professor
E. K. Paxton, Assistant Professor H. G. Funk-
houser and Instructor R. FE. Witt. Professor Pax-
ton spent a year at Columbia University in graduate
work and Professor Funkhouser has spent a session
und several summers at Columbia University and the
University of Chicago.

 

FACULTY MEMBERS ARE NOW VISITING
FRATS

The plan recently suggested by the Y. M. C. A.
that the members of the faculty visit the various
fraternity houses and give short talks for their bene-
fit has been successfully started. This plan was
initiated at Washington and Lee this year for the
first time and will undoubtedly prove very beneficial
tc new fraternity pledges.

SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM
(ActiING Proressor, H. M. THOMPson )

    
  
  
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
 
  
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
  
 
 
  
   
   
   
   

The re-established Lee Memorial School of Jor
nalism, now in its second year, has taken a distinc
forward step over the 1925-26 session. Larger num
bers of students have enrolled in the school, ne
courses have been added, and an assistant profess¢
has been secured for the teaching staff. <3

During the absence of Professor Roscoe B.
lard, head of the Lee School of Journalism who i:
on sick leave from University duties, the work is ; i
charge of Howard M. Thompson. a

Students in both the News Editing and Editor
classes see their copy in print. The Ring-tum Phi ¢
cepts stories from the reporters and editorials fron
the young editorial writers. A regular schedule 1
reporting for the Ring-tum Phi, where each studen
is required to make out assignment sheets or to r
port the assignments, has been drawn up by thea
structor.

Under the direction of the School of jours
100,000 words of publicity—general stories only, a’
the sport news. comes from another source—wi
have been sent out by Christmas. The total
represent stories mailed or wired during September,
October, November and December of this year. . T
top off what gives promise of another successf
year, the Lee School of Journalism and Pi Delt
Epsilon, honorary journalistic fraternity, will e
tain delegates to the Second Southern Interscholast
Press Association convention to be held at Lexing-
ton during the first week of May, 1927. é

 

DEPARTMENT OF ENGLISH

All the courses in English, even the freshman, are
being given by experienced men of excellent gradu-
«te training. The diversity of this training and ex-
perience brings fresh ideas and enthusiasm into th é
plans of the department. Besides Professor Shan-
non, who is a Ph.D. of Harvard, the department 1
composed of the following men: Associate-pro:
fessor James Moffatt. who has an M.A. from Prince-
ton and a Ph.D. from the University of North Car-
clina, where he taught for several years; Associate-
professor Fitzgerald Flournoy, who is an M.A.
from Washington and Lee, a First Honor A.B.
a Litt. B. from Oxford University and taught
year at Leland Stanford University; Assistant-p i
fessor Lawrence E. Watkin, who is an M.A. from
Harvard and has taught at Syracuse University.
The only hindrance to the work in English is felt to
be the fact that so much of the time is mnecessé ye
given to teaching the large number of freshmen that
very few courses can be given for students who a
interested in advanced study.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

BIOLOGY
(Proressor W. D. Hoy’)

Ninety-six students are registered in the classes
‘1 Biology for the present year. The needs of this
department for greater space in which to carry on
‘ts work has been recognized for several years.
Temporary relief has been furnished by the use of
one of the old chemical rooms for one of the labor-
atory classes.

As instructor the University selected Mr. Robert
p. Carroll who had made an excellent record at the
University of Virginia. In spite of crowded quar-
ters the work is being carried forward intensively
and successfully, endeavoring to meet the aims of
the department in giving work which will broaden
the horizon of its students, develop their own power
for work, and furnish the requirements needed by
those who expect to continue in medicine or other
related lines.

During the past year two students were engaged
in advanced work, continuing a problem which had
been begun the year before. Results of some inter-
est were obtained and reported at the National Sci-
ence Meetings during the Christmas holidays.

The effort is constantly being made to improve
the work given and it is earnestly hoped that means
will soon be found for enabling the department to
more adequately meet the needs in this field.

ENCYCLOPEDIA PRINTS NEW SKETCH
OF BAKER

The thirteenth edition of the Encyclopedia Brit-
tanica contains a revised biography of Newton D.
Baker, "94, Secretary of War in the Cabinet of
Woodrow Wilson. In the new edition Mr. Baker is
described as a “lawyer, administrator and party
leader.” .

The new sketch was written by Robert Clarkson
rooks, Professor of Political Science at Swarth-
more College. The old sketch was unsigned. Pro-
fessor Brooks, after telling of Mr. Baker’s munici-
pal services in Cleveland and his efforts to bring
about the nomination of Mr. Wilson, said he had
declined a Cabinet post in 1913 and had been ap-
pointed Secretary of War in 1916 after the resigna-
tion of Lindley M. Garrison.

“Although an avowed pacifist,’ the sketch con-
tinued, “immediately after the organization of the
Sixty-fifth Congress in 1917, he submitted a plan
for universal military conscription, and remained at
the head of the Department of War throughout the
Whole period of the World War and to the retire-
ment of Wilson in 1921. Administration policies re-
Sarding preparedness, conduct of war and _treat-
ment of conscription objectors, became the subject
Of severe criticism, much of it for partisan ends.”

THE LAW SCHOOL
(Dean W. H. Moretanp, ’06)

The session opened with a small increase in _at-
tendance, there being one hundred men in the School
as against ninety-three at the beginning of last ses-
sion. A large majority of the matriculates prepared
for the study of law in the college.

This Law School, being a member of the Associa-
tion of American Law Schools and being a class “A”’
school in the classification made by the American
Bar Association, requires of each student that he
shall have completed not less than two years of col-
lege work before entering. No exceptions are made
to this rule, and this means we have no special stu-
dents.

In addition, no student is admitted to this Law
School except at the beginning of the school year.
We have steadily refused to admit men at the second
semester.

These standards are high and have resulted in a
very marked reduction in attendance. It has also
resulted, however, in bringing to the law school men
better prepared for the study of law, and has en-
abled the law faculty to offer instruction of a much
higher grade than could be given to students not so
well prepared.

We confidently expect that our numbers will in-
crease until in a very few years the attendance will
be back to its old figure of, say, one hundred and fifty
men, which is about all that the School with its
present teaching force and equipment can accommo-
date.

A most valuable addition to the school work has
been the establishment of law clubs following the
system which has been in effect for many years in
the Harvard Law School. Professor Light has this
work in charge and is making most remarkable
progress with it.

TABLET OF REV. ROBERT J. McBRYDE

Many alumni revere the memory of Robert J.
McBryde, D.D., rector of the Lee Memorial Episco-
pal Church in Lexington from 1883 to 1905. His
long and fruitful service was commemorated by a
tablet in his memory, placed in the Lee Memorial
Church. The unveiling was attended by surviving
immembers of Dr. McBryde’s family and by a host of
his former friends and admirers, including his sons,
Dr. Stuart McBryde, ’05, and W. Waller McBryde,
‘06.

Ned Moore, ’99, returning from Florida, has been
in Lexington and at the Rockbridge Baths for some
days, looking over water-power rights that he has
on the North River.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Local Meetings, January | 9th

The Alumni (Office has received notice that local
association meetings will be held on Lee’s birthday,

as follows:
Richmond, Va.

“We have fixed our meeting for the 18th or 19th
of January, whichever date will suit the Common-
wealth Club here, and we are waiting to hear which
date will suit, as we do not wish to conflict with the
annual meeting of the Commonwealth Club, which
will be held on one of these dates.

“The club would appreciate it if the college can
see fit to send some member of the faculty here to
speak at our annual meeting, and the preference, |
think, would be for Dr. Howe, Dr. Campbell or Dean
Moreland of the Law School.

“T think any one of these would be acceptable if
the college can see fit to send one of them here at
that time.

“Geo. E. Haw.
Baltimore, Md.

“In regard to your letter of December 16th, would
advise that our tentative program is for a dinner or
banquet on January 19th at 7:30 o’clock at the Uni-
versity Club, at which Dr. Easter will be the speaker
representing the University, and Congressman George
C. Peery the after-dinner speaker of the evening.

“It is hoped and planned to have at least sixty
persons present and this is dependent upon whether
we are able to arrange in advance the kind of pro-
gram that is rendered.

“Tt would seem to me extremely wise for the
University to have a kind of national celebration
upon this day by having a special provision with a
broadcasting station to broadcast some speech that
evening and music appropriate to the same including
the Washington and Lee Swing, upon which many

might tune in.
“Jackson R. Collins.

Washington, D. C.

“There certainly should be one big meeting a year
at least and I think January 19th is a most appropri-
ate time. If any appeal should be productive of good
results, an appeal for the 19th, Lee’s birthday,
should bring forth a large gathering. Acting on
your suggestion, I will send out return-reply postal
cards, with the request that all of those who expect
to attend, advise. I will try to have some special
features and will communicate with you later. It
certainly was not on my initiative that our monthly
meetings were discontinued; it was because we could
not get a corporal’s guard to attend. I think it is
safe for you to say that we expect to have a meeting
cn January 19th and that the place has not been de-

more additional ones that will bring in.

  
  
   
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
 
       
 
   
    
  
  
 
 
    
  
 
   
      
  
  

termined upon, but that information can be obtaine
irom me at this office.

“Elwood H. Seal, ‘2
San Antonio, Texas 3

“While of course we have not made any arrange
ments for the meeting on January 19th, the San /
tonio crowd always does meet and we always notify
you what we do, and shall make no exception thi:
year. You will hear all about it. a

“Albert Steves, Jram
Louisville, Kentucky

“T have and appreciate your letter of Decembe
16th, calling attention to the plans for Washingtor
and Lee alumni meetings. We are looking forw
with great pleasure to meeting on January 19,
hope to have a good attendance.

“R. P. Hobson
New Orleans, Louisiana

“Dear Fellow Alumnus:

“We are beginning to plan our annual banquet ir
New Orleans on Lee’s birthday, January 19th, and
this is simply a reminder that you set apart vat
date right now and make your plans to be on hi ad.
It has been some years since we had anything like a
full meeting of our association and surely we cat
not afford to neglect the cause of our dear Alma
Mater. |

“If we can carry out our plans our meeting i
going to have some unique features. On the whole .
Henry Louis Smith will be the prificigat number 3
the program. Another feature will be a letter f om
our scholarship student, Charles M. Smith, contain-
ing his impressions of old W. & L. and reporting a’
his progress. a

“Other good things will be in store for you and
another letter early in January will tell you some-
thing about that. “¥

“There are several important matters which »
should be included on our 1927 program of activi
ties. Our association stands right at the top, Du
unless you fellows come to the annual meeting, t
part in the discussions and then line up for active
work for old W. & L., we cannot hold our place.
It is not too early now to write me and tell me that_
you are going to be here. The more acceptances _
we have before the January letter goes out, the
Drop me a

ios

line right now before you forget it.

Yours sincerely, a
“H. M. Blain. —

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Lynchburg Alumni Banquet

FRIDAY. NOVEMBER 12TH

A nine-piece orchestra struck up the Swing. fifty
Washington and lee alumni took their places in the
private dining room of the Virginian Hotel. president
mo W. \icWane. ‘14. acted as toastmaster, Cary
Barker. “13, pronounced the invocation, the most
euccesstul banquet ever held by the Lynchburg
Alumni \sseciation was in progress.

The K. C. Glass High School orchestra plaved at
generous intervals during the excellent dinner. Va-
rious local members were heard from, visitors were
introduced, then Dean H. D. Campbell. speaker Pi
the evening. was presented.

Dr. Campbell outlined the history of Washington
and Lee: paid tribute to the memory ee Waeana) (..
mC. 1.ee:
Wilson: sketched the progress of Washineton and

and to the memory of Hon. Wm. L.

Lee under the administration of Presidents (Seorge
H. Denny and Henry Louis Smith: spoke of the
present campus conditions, problems. needs: his
speech throughout was brightened with dry wit and
humorous anecdotes.

Verbon E. Kemp spoke briefly of the work of
Alumni, Inc., of the ALumnt Macazine, of the
Alumni Directory. and complimented President” F.
W. McWane and his fellow officers.

Plans for entertainment during the V. P. [.-
W. and L. game were discussed. Members were
thanked for their co-operation. Secretary A. L.
Burger was complimented upon his efficient work.

New officers were elected for the vear 1926-27.
A motion to re-elect the present officers was defeated
upon the statement by President McWane that the
Association owed its vitality to the new and chang-
ing personnel of its officers every year. Dr. M. G.
Perrow. ‘95, was elected president, Robert D. Ram-
sey, “13. vice-president and A. L. Burger, ’02, was
re-elected secretary and treasurer.

Dr. Perrow. newly elected president, has a distin-
guished record. After graduation he taught school.
took post-graduate work for a Ph.D.. studied medi-
cine :

“The Health Department in Lynchburg was put
on a scientific basis in 1910, and Dr. Perrow was
placed at the head. His administration has been pro-
gressive and startling. Typhoid fever, the great
scourge of the city prior to 1910, has become one of
the rarer diseases. and the infant and tuberculosis
death rates have been more than cut in half. The
department is one of the outstanding and most effh-
ciently organized in the entire country. Pioneer and
epoch making work has been done on tuberculosis,
venereal, infantile. and other communicable diseases,
Water, milk, foods, ventilation, medical inspection of

 

c .

Dr. M. G. Perrow, 795

“__ elected president”

 

schools, hospitals, and in the reduction of flies, mos-
quitoes, and rats. The laboratory, sanitary inspec-
tion, nursing service and clinics are probably unsur-
passed in the United States. Dr. Perrow is author
of numerous scientific papers, has held many hon-
orary positions, and is a member of various learned
and scientific societies.”

Lynchburg alumni attending the annual banquet
were: R. H. Anderson, "10; D. M. Barclay, ’98; R.
M. Barker, ’22; O. B. Barker, Jr., 13; W. C. Bar-
ker, 09: A. L. Burger, 02; C. E. Burks, 10; Harry
Baumgardner; J. R. Caskie. "06; J. S. Caskie, ‘24;
C. L. Christian. 716: G. G. Craddock, 710; L. T. Da-
vis: T. W. Gilliam, ’19; Carter Glass, Jr., °13; H.
B. Glass. 15; Powell Glass, 07; Robt. C. Glass, ’07;
R. E. Graves. ’24; Judge Don P. Halsey, 94; S. G.
Hamner, 98; Jno. G. Haythe, 88; W. W. Lynn,
Jr.. ’22; F. W. McWane, ’13; F. J. Gilliam; W.
W. Manley, Jr.; A. W. Mosby, Jr., ’24; Israel
Moore. ’63: Maurice Moore, 95; Dr. M. G.  Per-
row, 95: G. M. Penick, ’15; W. G. Pendleton, ’03:
C. M. Roberts. 994; R. D. Ramsey, °13; W. T.
Spencer, Jr.. ’24; A. E. Strode, 92; A. S. White.
77. TD. E. Witt, 02; R. C. Wood, Jr., ’21; T. G.
Woodson, °17: Robt. A. Russell; Dr. R. D. Cald-
well. Guests at the banquet were, Dr. E. C. Glass,
Lindsay Moore, Dr. A. L. Wilson, Dr. H. D. Camp-

bell and Verbon FE. Kemp.

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Atlanta Entertainment at [ech Game

The first meeting of the Generals and the Golden
Tornado of Georgia Tech since 1919 drew a large
and representative crowd of W. & L. alumni to
Atlanta for the week-end of October 23rd.

Under the leadership of Maynard B. Smith, 713,
newly elected president of the Atlanta Alumni As-
sociation, and with the help of a special alumni com-
mittee consisting of Col. W. P. Andrews, 91,
Brooks Mell, ’12, and Bruce Woodruff, ’21, the lo-
cal association kept open house at the Atlanta-Bilt-
more Hotel for all visitors.

Alumni headquarters were established in the lobby
of the Biltmore with Maynard Smith and Alumni
Secretary Kemp in charge. An informal luncheon
for W. & L. supporters was held in the main hotel
dining room Saturday. For the game, president
Maynard Smith secured the excellent forty-piece
band of the Georgia Military Academy. Their
rendition of the Washington and Lee Swing and
other college tunes added much to the exhibition of
“pep” and spirit in the W. & L. section of the
stands. After the game the Atlanta Association
gave a tea dance at the Biltmore for the members
of the team.

Alumni came from far and near, hoping to wit-
ress another 3-0 thriller. (The 1919 score, in favor
of W. & L.) They were disappointed in the score
but not in the thrilling exhibition. Those register-
ing at alumni headquarters for the Tech game were:

Bruce Woodruff, ’16, 423 Healy Bldg., Altanta.
Ga.; Verbon E. Kemp, °19, Lexington, Va.; May-
nard B. Smith. 34 Westminster Drive. Atlanta, Ga. :
Walter P. Andrews, ’91, Atlanta, Ga.; Irwin Wm.
Stolz, 750 Ponce de Leon ee Atlanta, Ga.; J.
Shirley Riley. 16, Roanoke, ; J. G. Kincheloe,
Philadelphia, Pa.; R. M. ae Rock Hill, S. Cis a
S. Smith, Lexington, Va.; C. C. Crockett. ’07 and
13, Dublin, Ga.; A. M. Hitz, ’14, Atlanta, Ga.; C.
P. Light, *11. 311 W. Peachtree, Atlanta, Ga.;
Fred A. Hahn. ’11, Chattanooga, Tenn.: Brooks
Mell, 12, Atlanta, Ga.; Roger B. Jones, ’23, At-
lanta, Ga.; Edward FE. Rosborough, ’25, Atlanta.
Ga.; Geo. L. Hill, ’24, Roanoke, Ala.; T. C. Mce-
Callie, 14, Chattanooga, Tenn.; J. P. Stephens, 725.
Atlanta, Ga.; Bill Holt, ’23, Memphis, Tenn.; Geo.
C. Mason, Jr., ’23, Memphis, Tenn.; Warren New-
sum, 712, Memphis, Tenn.; Ed Aull, ’23, Atlanta.

Ga.; E. C. Stewart, ’21, Atlanta, Ga.: Elliott M.
Stewart, "18, Atlanta, Ga.; R. B. Gibson, ’26, At-
lanta, Ga.; Darby H. Brown, ’25, Birmingham,
Ala.; V. Batchelor, 98, Atlanta, Ga.; D. K. Bemis.

‘24. Prescott, Ark.: T. M. Bemis, ’24, Prescott.
Ark.; Harry Faull, ’24, Birmingham, Ala.; Bill
Stevhens, °19, Gastonia. N. C.;: Fred C. Bear, ’26,

  
 
   
 
   
  
      
   
   
 
  
 
   
  
  
 
   
    
   
  
 
   
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
   

Montgomery, Ala.; Turner Rice, Jr., ’24, Florence ;
Ala.; R. M. Jenkins, Jr., ’24, Birmingham, —
Allen Rushton, °’25, Birmingham, Ala.; Jas, }
Caskie, 06 and ’09, Lynchburg, Va.; Wyatt French
‘24, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Bo McMillan, ’25, .
man, Tenn.; C. M. McCrum, 07, Birmingham.
Ala.; C. H. Moore, ’09, Birmingham, Ala.;: @. S.
Henley, °11, Birmingham, Ala.; Walter M. Hood,
08, Birmingham, Ala.; S. W. Engelhardt, ’99.
Montgomery, Ala.; Jno. Bell, ’21, Tampa, Fla.:
Adolph Marx, ’18, Lake Charles, La.; Chas. J. Al
lison, ’26, Birmingham, Ala.; J. R. Seehorn, Jr
‘25, Newport, Tenn.; W. D. McSween, 98, New-.
port, Tenn.; J. V. Coe, Jr.. Birmingham, Ala.; +3
M. Faull, Bessemer, Ala.; T. H. Broadus, Decatur,
Ala.; K. C. Rice, 17, 78 Forrest Ave., Atlanta, Ga.:_
Fred B. Oates, Asheville, N. C.; James H. Bryan,
21, Birmingham, Ala.; Thurlon C. Guinn, Birming-_
ham, Ala.; Ed. G. Woodson, ’24, Memphis, Tenn. ;
James B. Huff, ’°24, Columbus, Ga.; Joe S. Me-
Math, ’24, Americus, Ga.; Richard B. Longhran, —
13, Asheville, N. C.; F. N. Faircloth, ’24, Birming- 4
ham, Ala.; John L. Crist, ’12, Damascus, Va.; Ed.
E. Brown, ’11, Chattanooga, Tenn.; Ernest Kell-—
ner, Jr., ’14, Greenville, Miss. ; Freel Paget, 20, 4
Anderson, S. C.; B. J. Mayer, ’06, La Grange,
Ga.; John W. Greene, ’24, Knoxville, Tenn.; Jno. —
McDonald, Charlotte. N. C.; Paul H. Jona At- |
lanta, Ga.; W. M. Wadsworth, Gadsden, Ala.:
Capt. S. C. Harrison. 04, Atlanta. Ga.; J. Fo
Faison, °17, Memphis, Tenn.; Al Ament, 726, Biro
mineham, Ala.; W. L. Barron, 719, Rome, Ga.; Ra
C. Stanton, ’22, Rome, Ga.; J. C. Wilkinson, ’25, ~
Newnan, Ga.; T. B. McRitchie, Jr.. ’26, Newnan, —
Ga.; G. M. Neville, ’25, Meridian, Miss.; Leon W.
Harris, 715, Anderson, S. C.; Mike Kidd, ’21, Rich-
mond, Va.; Mac Stubbs, ’20, Atlanta, Ga. a

a ee
~

MR. HARRINGTON WADDELL HONORED ©

With the completion of Lexington’s new one hun-—
hundred thousand dollar High School building, sug- —
gestions from friends and admirers of Professor —
Harrington Waddell, ’94, have repeatedly been made —
that the new school be named the Harrington Wad- —
dell High School. Professor Waddell has been prin- a
ciple of the High School for a number of years. —

He is also a trustee of Washington and Lee.

 

Edward Matz, ’24, is vice-president of the Sam
L.. Matz Coal Corporation, located at Raven, Vit-
ginia. ae

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 23

Greensboro, N. C., Alumni Organize

(From Greensboro News, Nov. 13th.)

An inspiring address by Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
native of Greensboro, now president of Washing-
ton and Lee University, was the distinct feature of
the meeting of alumni of that institution here last
evening. Graduates of the famous university gath-
ered at Hylmore for the purpose of affecting a lo-
cal organization, and before the gathering was over,
the grads had put themselves on record as_ being
disposed to do everything possible toward the ad-
yvancement of Greensboro as an athletic center by
use of the world war memorial stadium.

L. G. (“Baldy”) Benford acted as_ toastmaster
and immediately after dinner expressed the pleasure
of the alumni in having Dr. Smith present. The
president of Washington and Lee responded with
well chosen and expressed words, outlining the prog-
ress of the university since the inception of the pres-
ent administration in 1912. He pointed with due
emphasis to the growing cosmopolitanism of the
university, declaring that “Washington and Lee Uni-
versity is and has been a school in which are ma-
triculated boys from a great majority of the states
of the union. the school being only Virginian in lo-
cation.”

Dr. Smith expressed his great pleasure at being
able to attend the gathering, declaring that he never
dreamed Greensboro possessed such a large number
of alumni. “Washington and Lee is dedicated es-
sentially to the education and training of the youth
of the South,” he declared. He concluded his re-
marks by expressing the hope that local alumni and
those of other nearby cities and towns might con-
tinue to work toward perfecting an organization that
would aid the university and reflect credit upon its
achievements.

Following the address of Dr. Smith, a motion was
made and immediately carried to perfect an alumni
organization. Roger W. Harrison, prominent at-
forney, member of the class of 1899, was named
president by unanimous vote. L. G. Benford was
chosen as secretary, and plans were made for con-
eerted action in advancing the interests and organi-
zation of the local alumni chapter.

It was the desire of those attending last night’s
dinner that the chapter might be the means of bring-
ing to Greensboro in the near future a Washington
and Lee football game to be played at the stadium
recently completed and so well equipped to be the
scene of a game between some North Carolina school
and Washington and Lee. An executive commit-
tee of three with the president and the secretary was
*ppointed by the president. The committee in-
cluded Larry Wilson, Greensboro, 710; J. Hampton

Price, Leaksville, ‘24; and J. C. Franklin, Greens-
boro, ‘25. The president announced that the chap-
ter is particularly anxious to get in touch with any
alumni that might have been inadvertently over-
looked at the first meeting and requested that all
such alumni communicate with the secretary.

The alumni present last evening were: John B.
Arrowhead, °16; E. E. Bain, Jr.. °17; L. G. Benford,
"23; R. R. Blake, 712; O. D. Colaw, 711; Robert
Daniel, ’20; D. N. Farnell, ’24; J. C. Franklin, ’25;
W. G. Caperton, 10; R. W. Harrison, 99; Francis
Rk. Kemp, of Reidsville, ‘22; K. A. Page, of High
Point, "22; J. Hampton Price, of Leaksville, ’24:
Raymond Smith, ’22; Walter Stone, of Stoneville,
21; L. W. Wilson, 710.

GENERALS FETED IN FLORIDA

Washington and Lee’s football team was continu-
ously entertained during their Thanksgiving holiday
invasion by Jacksonville officials, alumni, fraterni-
ties and the students of the University of Florida.

The “Big Blue” team were guests of the Chief of
the Fire Department for a five-mile cruise on a fire-
boat up the St. Johns River. The Fire Chief pointed
out the various places of interest along the way.
The view of Jacksonville’s large buildings from the
waterfront showed a_ recognizable resemblance — of
that prevalent from the shores of the famous Hud-
son in New York.

Pi Kappa Phi social fraternity entertained many
of the team members after the game at a tea dance
in the Seminole Hotel. The guests enjoyed this op-
portunity of entertainment as a simple signal that
training was over for the year.

The annual football banquet given by the alumni
of Jacksonville was held in the new Hotel Carling
at 7 o'clock in the evening. .\ regular, delicious
turkey course dinner with its many side dishes was
served. During the course of this dinner the presi-
dent of the Jacksonville Alumni and Commissioner
of Public Safety. Valz. presented Ty Rauber with a
leving cup, illustrative of the appreciation of the lo-
cal alumni for his splendid work throughout the
i926 gridiron season. On the cup is engraved:
“*Ty’ Rauber, Captain of the 1926 Generals.”
Coach Herron and Dr. R. G. Campbell added more
praise to the great leader of this year’s Generals.

Jacksonville alumni in charge of entertainment
were: Robert .\. Baker, "96, Chairman: L. S. Joel,
‘25, Chairman of Publicity Committee; I. Crutch-
field, ‘14, Chairman of Sponsor Committee; M. H.
Myers, “10, Chairman of Banquet and _ Parade;
James C. Cranford, ’22, Committee on Finance; and
Sam R. Marks, ‘09, Treasurer.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

lO
sn

The New York Alumni Organization

The work of the ever active New York Alumni
Association was ably reviewed by the ever active
“Toad” Snively, ’23, Secretary, in a recent bulletin:

“Following a dinner in honor of Dr. Henry Louis
Smith at the University Club of Brooklyn on April
30th, 1925, a committee of local alumni was formed
to organize a New York Alumni Association. This,
we believe, has been accomplished.

“Last year we held our first dinner at the Hotel
Lafayette with Hon. John W. Davis as the principal
speaker. In the spring we joined with the Virginia
Alumni Association in a dinner in honor of Prof.
Charles W. Graves. This fall, the night before the
Princeton game, we had another dinner at the. La-
fayette at which Dr. Granville Campbell, Graduate
Manager Dick Smith and former Coach “Jogger”
Elcock were the guests of honor.

“And luncheons, with an average attendance of
30 men, were held each month throughout the win-
ter.

“So we feel that the Association has gotten off
to a good start and, with your help, it will be con-
tinued. You can help both by attending the func-
tions of the Association and by paying your annual
dues of $1.00.

LUNCHEONS

“The monthly luncheons will begin in December,
the first luncheon being at the Fraternity Club, 38th
St. and Madison Ave, on Wednesday, December Ist,
from 12 to 2 P. M. Try to be there before 12:30.

“Any further information about the Association
or the luncheons and receipts for your dues will be
gladly furnished by

‘D. R. SNIVELY,
16 EK. 40th Street,
New York City, N. Y.”

Especial attention is called to the monthly alumni
luncheons held on the first Wednesday of every
month at the Fraternity Club, 38th St. and Madison
Ave., between 12 and 2 P. M. Out of town alumni
are always welcome.

At a meeting of the Board of Directors of the As-
sociation the foilowing resolution was adopted and
sent to the University:

RESOLUTION.

WuHereEas, this Association has been advised that
the New York Southern Society has made an offer
to the authorities of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity to establish an Award Medallion in the Univer-
sity, and

WHEREAS, after an examination of the purpose
of the Award and the benefits to accrue therefrom,
it is the sense of this Association that establishment
of the same in the University would be a novel as
well as practical incentive to young men to obtain
distinction on the lines for which the Award is
founded and intended.

Now, ‘THEREFORE, BE It RESOLVED:

First: That this Association commend the estab-
lishment of the Award and respectfully recommend
that the same be established on the lines laid down
by the donors of the same, and .

Second: ‘That a copy of these Resolutions be
forwarded to President Henry [.ouis Smith for such
action as the authorities of the University may deem
proper.

Wa. Exrtiorr Doip, M.D.,
President Alumni Association
of Washington and Lee University
in New York.

 

MANY ALUMNI SAW VIRGINIA GAME

November 6th, practically the entire student body
of Washington and Lee journeyed to Charlottesville
to witness the annual game with the Cavaliers.
Twelve hundred is a conservative estimate of the
alumni who came from near and far to see the clash.
Over a thousand tickets were sold through Gradu-
ate Manager Smith here in Lexington, and the re-
mainder, a much larger number than this, was dis-
tributed at Charlottesville, which was the headquar-

ters for tickets for alumni.

Many “old” Washington and Lee men were pres-
ent, forgetful of the fact that they were no longer
school boys, and with their heart and soul out on the
field with the Big Blue team. Practically every cap-

tain of a Washington and Lee football team that has
played against Virginia since relations were resumed
with that school some years ago, was present, among
them being: “Student” Frew, Eddie Cameron, Tex
Tilson, Kay Thomas, Lawrence Witten and “Pin”
Webster. Jimmie DeHart, former Washington and
Lee coach, witnessed the game. Clyde Hoge, who
played on the first Blue and White team that scored
or beat the University of Virginia, was on Lambeth
field with the Blue and White colors on, and “Bill”
Streit, brother of a man on the squad today, was
captain of that same team.

Albert Pickus, ‘24, is an accountant, located in
New Haven, Conn.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

An Editorial Discussion

An interesting editorial taken from an article by
President Henry Louis Smith was printed in the
Cincinnati, Ohio, Times-Star. \ reader disagreed
with the precepts laid down by Dr. Smith. The
Times-Star responded with another excellent edito-
rial, both of which are given below. (Thanks to
Monte J. Goble, 91, Cincinnati) :

( Times-Star, Cincinnati, Oct. 25, 1926)
Wuo SHoutp Go to COLLEGE?

Inspiriting is the spectacle of moral muscularity.
It is presented in the four questions for prospective
college men which a university president propounds
in McNaught’s Monthly for November. His name
is Henry Louis Smith, his institution is Washington
and Lee University, and here are the questions:

1. Are you man enough to get up promptly every
morning, get to your meals and to school on time
every day, and go to bed at a fixed hour every night.
all on your own initiative without a word of. re-
minder from anybody?

2. Are you man enough to go off by yourself
every day and_ study all your lessons till you know
them, without having anyone tell you to get to work?

3. Are you man enough to carry loose change in
your pocket without spending it?

4. Are you man enough, when another fellow’s
answer is in easy reach, to fail on an examination
rather than obtain unlawful aid?

Unless a prospective student can answer all four
in the affirmative, Dr. Smith concludes that he is
not old enough to go to college. We approve the
conclusion. Many colleges, we suspect, are over-
crowded, because students can not meet these ques-
tions, and parents neither ask them nor fit their sons
for the proper answer. They simply pass their
problems on for the colleges to wrestle with. But
colleges are neither reformatories nor loafing places.
All their funds and all their energies are required to
educate students who are captains of their own
souls, and who match their native resolution with
an equal quality of intelligence.

THe Roap To NOWHERE

A correspondent takes us to task for approving
editorially of what we called the “moral muscular-
ity” of President Henry Louis Smith of Washing-
ton and Lee University, as set forth in a series of
four questions and replies. Turning these into af-
firmations, what Dr. Smith said was that no boy
was old enough to go to college unless he was “man

enough” to keep regular hours, to get up in time for

   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
    

breakfast, to be in time to his classes. to study h
lessons, to “carry loose change” in his pocket vith
out spending it, and to fail rather than to cheat i

an examination.

These were self-evident truths to another gener
ation of college students. In_ practice, they
challenged by the present one, and the conten ions
of our correspondent are interesting because they a:
more or less representative. According to hing d
student who observes them ‘ ‘cmeram on commence.
ment day a mimicking macaw,” a person “woefully
lacking in initiative.” and “piteously weak in the
powers of mental analysis.” J

       
     
   
  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
 
 
   
 
   
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

That this is not -
masquerade of humor, but is soberly proffered,
had evidence last June at the alumni banquet of our
own alma mater when the spokesman of the gradu-
ating class, premising his statement with the q ota-
tion, “crabbed age and youth cannot live together,”
declared that his class would overtop the older and
more “docile” graduating classes in achievement De-
cause it had had the “‘nitiative” to object to daily
chapel exercises, and demand the privilege of s 7
ing on the campus! |

Such seems to be the slant of the youthful hedon 1-
ists of our colleges. Our comment is that those wh 2
really practice what they preach—and we guess our
correspondent would not—are spiritual _ slatters.
Going to bed after midnight. sleeping into the late
morning, missing breakfast, cutting the first class,
littering the campus with cigarette stubs, dissipatin o
in frivolous purchases the allowance provided
toiling dads who got to work on time, batting around”
from city to city all over the state in hours t it
should be devoted to study-—these are not the -
toms of youths who ever get anywhere, except pet =
haps into the reformatories; and as we said in our
editorial, colleges are not reformatories. Honest
work, self-denial and self-discipline are the roads 0
character and the means to mastery. But why
multiply words: It was all said a long while ago:
“He that ruleth his spirit is better than he that take
a city.”

&
we

9

W. G. Long, "0O8—“Have been in Oklahoma ten
years, six years of that time have served as County
Judge of Murray County. On November 2nd was —
elected District Judge of the 14th Judicial District —
of the State of Oklahoma. I live at Sulphur, have a —
wife and two boys—Gilmer, age 13, and James, age —
6. I was elected First President of Sulphur Kiwanis —
Club. I love the law and can never forget great —
teaching of Daddy Burks, Professor Staples and Joes
Long.” ;

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

George Pitman Haw, '67

vFrom an address by Hon. H. T, Wickham, ’68, on
the occasion of his presentation of the portrait
of George P. Haw to the County
of Hanover.)

He was the son of John Haw and his wife, -Mary
\ustin Watt. and with his twin brother, John H.
Haw. was born at Oak Grove, about one mile from
Studley. Hanover County, Va.. on July 29. 1X38.

\fter receiving his education in a private school
maintained in the neighborhood. he entered his fa-
ther’s foundry and machine shops. which were lo-
cated at Studlev. \When the war between the States
heean. althoueh he had strongly opposed secession,
he was one of the first to volunteer, and on April
23. 1861. was mustered into service as a private in
Company “I” of the 15th Virginia Infantry—the
famous “Hanover Grays.”

After training at Camp Lee. he was elected First
Lieutenant, his Captain beine James D. Wade.

Succeeding his training at Camp Lee, his com-
pany was ordered to service on the Virginia Penin-
sula, and took part in. numerous engagements, in-
cluding the Battle of Wilhamsburg and Malvern
Hill, and formed a part of the line held by the Con-
Island. on the James

lederates from Mulberry
River, to Yorktown.
\fter other military experience, the 15th Virginia
Regiment, with Lieut. Haw in command, due _ to
sick leave of his Captain, made a forced march
irom Hanover Junction to Sharpsburg. and as a
part of Sims’ brigade in McClaus’ Division, arrived
upon the field of battle as the last reserves. and,
charging through Jackson’s retiring troops, stopped
the Federal advance. .\t this place, Lieut. Haw lost

his left arm. from wounds received.

"he night of his wounding the Confederate hos-
pital at which his arm had been amputated, fell into
the hands of the Northern troops, and for some

a i ; ;
Cays thereafter he continued in the hospital as a

prisoner, during which time. due to the fact that
hs clothes had been ruined by his wounding, he
was without any wearing apparel except his blanket.
hut was outfitted by his cousin, Capt. O’Connor of
the Northern Army, who discovered him in this
hospital,

\ few days later the wounded prisoners were
moved by ambulance to Winchester where Lieut.
Haw states that he was shunned at first by the Con-
‘ederate ladies. who thought he was a Yankee. He
Was exchanged at Varina landing on the James
River, and thereafter and until the end of the war

Was assigned to light duty under the command of

 

GEORGE P. Haw, °67

“Lost his armi........ Fell into the hands of Northern troops”

eS — - |)

 

 

Capt. John Coke, his territory being Hanover, King
William and King and Queen, and his duties being
the enrollment of men for service and the apprehen-
sion of deserters.

After Appomattox he returned to his old home,
to find it devastated, having been overrun by the
Northern troops, and he immediately commenced
work with a view toward assisting his parents and
making a future for himself. He secured employ-
inent in erecting portable saw mills, and accumu-
lated a sufficient amount of money to take a law
course at Washington College, now Washington &
Lee University, where he studied under Judge
John W.

time maintained a law school in Lexington, and

Brockenborough, who had_ before that

whose law school had that year been made a part of
Washington College. He graduated with the de-
gree of Bachelor of Law on June 20, 1867, and im-
mediately opened his law office at Hanover Court-
house, and after several years of practice there, he
moved his office to Richmond, where until his re-
tirement a few years ago, he enjoyed an extensive
practice.

Karly in his career he formed a partnership with

(Continued on Next Page)

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

About Rod Beddow, '1 2

From W. H. Taytoer, ’78
Uniontown, Ala.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

The November number of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
reached me this morning and has just been read
from “kiver to kiver,” and very greatly enjoyed.
To show my appreciation IT am sending check for
subscription.

How stupendous the old place has grown. To
think oft almost nine hundred students. I suppose
however that this is proper growth. When IT ma-
triculated oh, October 9th, 1869, T was one of about
three hundred and eighty-five. And that has been
sO many years ago.

I often think of the old place and resolve to write
some memories for your columns; but the matter
ends in intention. I am now 74 and passed. At that
age I find exertion irksome. However, I am hoping
yet.

There were giants in the olden day. Nature seems
to have lost the die in which they were moulded.
So many memories: so much that was great. How-
ever, there is no reason to despair of the present
state. W. and L. U. seems yet to make her forward
way.

Mr. Roderick Beddow is perhaps the greatest con-
tribution the institution has made to this common-
wealth. This young gentleman is making his way
rapidly in his profession. I have never met him but
watch his career through the daily papers. Lately
there was in Birmingham the cause celebre of the
State v. Shirley—(well I forget the name—that is
not important). The party was tried for the mur-
der of one Jones. Judge, lawyers, jury and all were
of the greatest importance. Mr. Beddow was easily
in the forefront of the trial. He represented the de-
fendant and managed the case exquisitely, making
one of the finest speeches I have ever read. A great
specimen of English composition as reported by
stenography.

At present, he is engaged in the defense of Davis
tor killing a convict while warden of the Flat Top
Mines—a very outrageous occurrence as detailed in
the press last spring. For this cause Davis was re-
moved by the Governor. On the trial Mr. Beddow
represented the defense in part. His part was done
very competently, and his client was acquitted.
Beddow comes off with colors flying. At present he
is the favorite of fortune. If he can keep the pace
he will be one of the State’s greatest lawyers. It is
to be hoped that the gods do not love him, so that he
may live long and reflect honor on his Alma Mater.
and increase her reputation for making great law-
vers as well as men.

domination, he, in unison with the Hon. Riche

   
   
 
   
 
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
 
   
  

In my day Professors ‘Tucker and Graves we
engaged in making great lawyers. I am glad to ¢
that the example is yet followed. It takes great me
to emulate them. ——-

But I wish W. and L. had not lost that game t
Virginia ! a

Give my love and congratulations to all the oe
including those of the Faculty, especially Ben Woo
ten who belongs to my part of the country and— w
are proud of him. “4

With all kind regards and good wishes, lam

Faithfully, W. H. Taynor, ’78, -
GEORGE P. HAW, ’67 ;
(Continued )

 

Col. Wm. R. Wynne, and afterwards had as a part
ner, Judge Edmund Waddill, now the distinguishe
senior Judge of the United States Circuit Court «
\ppeals, with whom he practiced for some year
under the firm name of Haw & Waddill. Afte
this he practiced by himself until he formed a pa
nership with his son. George FE. Haw, ’04, under +
firm name of Haw & Haw. which has -continuer
until this time. a

He has been always a consistent Democrat, ar
was prominent in his party, without being a seeker
for office, save that of Commonwealth’s Attorn a.
for his county, which he held for over forty years
He refused to have his name presented as candid te
for Congress, due to the illness of his wife, wh
was Lizzie Winston Fontaine, the widow of Major
Tohn Fontaine, Surgeon-in-Chief of Stuart’s Cav-
alry, and a member of his staff. and the daughte
of Dr. Lucien B. Price, of Dundee. She died
10, 1919. _

His children are: Lucien Price Haw, of Wash
ington, D. C.; Mary Overton Haw, of Dundee

>
=

George Edwin Haw, of Richmond, and Lizzie Haw
Campbell. of Yazoo City, Miss. g
There are three periods which stand out, making

the career of George Haw: ¥

First, his brilliant conduct as a soldier of Vit-
ginia. =
His long tenure of the position of the Attorney
for the Commonwealth, and his great services t

the people when, in the great effort to destroy neg ‘0

H. Cardwell, organized victory in the 34th :
torial District in the memorable campaign of 188¢
when the Democracy triumphed over its dangerous
‘oes and white supremacy was restored. 4

Mr. Haw is now, and for more than a generation
has been, the commanding officer of the fa ous
William B. Newton Camp of Confederate Veterans:

<
¢
ae

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

Mr. Tucker of Virginia

Hon. Harry St. G. Tucker, ’75, campaigned in
Delaware in interest of the Democratic ticket. On
his arrival in Wilmington, Del., he was greeted by
an editorial in the “Every Evening” of that city. It
has the above title, and this editorial followed:

“At a Democratic rally in New Castle this even-
‘ng, Representative Harry St. George Tucker, of
Mr. Tucker who

answers to the letter of description of the ‘old Demo-

‘irginia, is scheduled to speak.

eratic war horse,’ has had an interesting political
career. His father, John Randolph Tucker, was a
distinguished Virginia lawyer, one time dean of the
law school at Washington and Lee University, and
gave of his talents to the Democratic party. The
son, as naturally as the sun shines on a clear day,
became a Democrat—and he is, as an old Southern
Negro once expressed it, ‘A Democrat what is a
Democrat.’

“Harry St. George Tucker really is an anomaly in
congress in these days and times. He is too honest:
and he practices his personal and political convic-
tions so literally that some of his friends are con-
strained to smile. And yet these same friends know
in their hearts that Tucker, after all, is but the liv-
ing example of what they themselves wish they had
the courage to be.

“It is said in Virginia that the sun never sets on a
Tucker. This is because there have been and there
are members of the family in every quarter of the
globe, serving their country, their state or their
In our
visitor's veins courses the best blood of the Old Do-

church in some capacity and serving well.

minion, the Randolphs and the Tuckers. But Harry
St. George is not the type of Virginian who boasts
of his good blood. He tries to prove it by example.
He is, therefore, an adornment in the halls of con-
gress. His political philosophy is based upon the
soundest conceptions of public questions, and em-
bodies the elemental qualities of high character—
honesty, truthfulness and refinement. It sounds in-

 

Hon. H. Sr. G. Tucker, °75, “dn anomaly”

congruous to mention refinement in the same sen-
tence with politics; but such a thing is not incongru-
ous when one is talking about Harry St. George
Tucker.

“He belongs to the fine old school of Democracy:
so that when he speaks on the political issues of the
day, members of all political faiths can listen to him
in the confidence that they are hearing a man of long
experience in public life, who knows a good deal of
truth about public questions and who is not afraid
to give voice to what he knows.”

 

 

 

 

 

OBITUARY

M. W. Brister, ‘77, died on November 2nd, at his
home in srooklyn, N. Y.

Clarence Wainwright Murphey, ’84, died of pneu-
monia in the American Hospital. Paris, on the 9th
of October. He had been on a tour of the world
and stopped over in Paris for a sojourn previous to
Sailing for New York.

Dr. Henry Alexander White, °84, died Monday,
October 18th, at Columbia, S. C., where he had held
the professorship of New ‘Testament literature and
€xegesis in Columbia Presbyterian Theological Semi-

nary since 1902. Dr. White filled the chair of His-
tory at Washington and Lee for thirteen years prior
to his occupancy of the professorship at the semi-
nary.

The Very Reverend Frederic C. Meredith, ’03,
Dean of the Cathedral of St. Luke. Ancon, Canal
Zone, died on October 27th.

Dennis S. Kilmer, ’11, died at his home in Mar-
tinsburg, West Virginia, on November 2nd.

Walter O. Sheppard, ’12, died on August 29th, at
his home in Fort Myers, Florida.

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ALUMNI OF YESTERDAY
(Memorial Sketch of Rev. Frank B, Webb, ’69.)
One of the most honored and useful ministers of

the Southern Presbyterian Church was the Rev. Dr.
Krank B. Webb, of the presbytery of Birmingham,
who departed this life Nov. 30, 1925, aged seventy-
eight.

He had a ministry of fifty-three years in five pas-
torates, in every one of which he was singularly use-
ful and acceptable. He came of an honorable and
pious ancestry. His grandfather was appointed by
President James Monroe as first judge of the United
States district of Alabama, and his father also
was one of the most eminent lawyers of the state,
living in the classic town of Eutaw.

Young Webb at an early age decided for the min-
istry and went first to the University of Mississippi,
of which Dr. John N. Waddell was then chancellor.
He also studied at Washington and Lee University
under the presidency of that great soldier and Chris-
tian, Robert EK. Lee. In Lexington, Va., he found
his life-partner of a famous Virginia and Presbyte-
rian stock, Miss Mary Paxton, whom he married in
1872.

After graduating at Union Theological Seminary,
his first pastorate was Union Springs, Ala., where
he remained fifteen years. That church has always
retained the stamp of his orthodox, evangelical,
evangelistic, and truly spiritual ministry. Next he
served as pastor of the Second Presbyterian church
for a brief period, but received a constraining call
ne could not decline to that attractive and impressive
field of the First Presbyterian church, Columbia,
Tenn., where for thirteen years he took rank as an
outstanding preacher and leader, easily the peer of
eny minister in the state.

For nineteen years he served as pastor of the
Presbyterian church at Talladega, Ala., and part of
the time as president of Isbell College. His scholar-
ship, orthodoxy, and capacity for leadership all had
full scope in his rare pastorate in this Presbyterian
center,

When advanced in years he settled in Birming-
ham, Ala., to spend a period of rest in the city he so
fondly loved, but was soon called to his fifteenth pas-
torate at Avondale, Ala., where his labors were richly
blessed in adding members to the church, in edify-
ing God’s people, and in sending young men into the
Gospel ministry.

The memory of this gifted, scholarly and spiritual
“Man of God’ will linger in the memory of those
who knew him and loved him. Especially will his
ministerial brethren delight to recall his genial, lov-
ing spirit and the genuine Christian fellowship which
inarked his attitude toward his brethren.

THORNTON WHALING.

   
      
     
  
   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
  
     
   
 
    
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
   

WEDDING BELLS

Kdmund Fleming Burk, Jr., °13, was married wa
vember 14th to Miss Edith Carter Mitchell, of Te:
arkana, Ark.

Announcement has been made of the en
and approaching marriage of Eddie Parks Davyj.
‘15, to Miss Edith Derbyshire of Lexington, Virgin
The wedding is to take place on January 29th,

Claiborne W. Gooch, Jr., "15, was married to M
Cornelia Christian of Lynchburg, Va., on Decembe
4th. %

The engagement and approaching marriage ¢
Lawrence Pinner Haynes, ’22, to Miss Marian Mar
tin of Lansdowne, Penn., has been announced.

Wm. J. Rushton, Jr., °22, was married to
Elizabeth Jane Perry of Birmingham, Ala., on Noy,
24th. A

Phillip F. Howerton, ’24, was married on Novem-
ber 18th to Miss Lemma Jordan Shepherd of Ct r
lotte, N. C. -

Paul O. Whitfield, .’24, was married Novembe
20th to Miss Betty Hurd of Newark, N. J. hey
make their home at 321 Park Avenue, East Orange
Nia 3
Howard D. Leake, ’25, was married to Miss Mar
jory May Moore of Birmingham, Ala., on Novem-
ber 24th. s

“Tex” ‘Tilson, ’26, was married in December to
Miss Virginia Kite of Wolftown, Va.

 

W. G. LONG, B.L., ’08, ELECTED DISTRIC
JUDGE J

After serving three terms as County Judge of
Murray County, Oklahoma, W. G. Long, of Sulphur,
Oklahoma, was nominated in the Democratic pri-
maries for Judge of the Fourteenth Judicial Dis
trict of Oklahoma and elected over his Republicar :
opponent in the November election.

Judge Long is a graduate of the Law School ¢
Washington and Lee, having received his diplom
in 1908. He received his literary education at W1ib
liam and Mary College, being a student there fo
three years.

He has been actively engaged in the practice o of
law since 1909, having practiced in Virginia for
seven years prior to going to Oklahoma. For four
years of that time he was county attorney of Dick-
enson County, Virginia, making in that office a
ord of which he is proud. Since going to Oklahoma
he has practiced at Stroud and Sulphur, less the time:
he has been county judge of Murray County, filling:
this office with credit to himself and satisfaction t0
the public. In cases tried before him there were but
few appeals in either criminal or civil cases, and
was reversed only one time by the Oklahoma Suq
preme Court.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

Screws and Bolts—George H. Lee, 00

Two accounts may be given of the achievements
of George H. Lee. One would be the story of
“Boots” Lee by one of his old college running mates,
who had _ visited him, or had read about him. The

other would be the bare cold facts that Mr. Lee

would
for the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

cive about himself if pressed for an article

Of course, the first is the most interesting. It
would read as follows: “Lovely wife—two children
_heautiful home life. Live very simply without the
least pretense.”

“‘Poots’ is regarded by many as the foremost
steel man in Pittsburgh. He is vice-president and
weneral manager of the Pittsburgh Screw and Bolt
Company. said to be the largest bolt concern in the
world. ‘The concern started with $50,000 and that’s
all the capital that has been put into it. The capital
stock is now seven million dollars with a surplus of
eight million. ‘They also have large plants at Erie,
Pa.. Cary, Ind., and Chicago, Il. About three thou-
cand men are employed.

“Someone called my attention to the fact that a
full page is devoted to ‘Boots’ in the Encyclopedia
Americana!

“His brother, John (03). is also associated with
him in Pittsburgh. No doubt you saw John when
he returned to W. and L. for commencement two
years ago.

“‘Boots’ says that eventually he expects to make
his home somewhere in the Shenandoah Valley.”

That’s the intimate story! Additional bare facts
are that Huch Lee is vice-president in charge of op-
‘rations of the Pittsburgh Screw and Bolt Company.
He directs operations from the Pittsburgh office.
Their product goes to the U. S. Army and Navy,
and to most of the larger concerns engaged in steel

fabrication. He supplies data to and is interested

 

 

 

in many of the world’s steel industries. He is also
connected with the Colona Manufacturing Company,
2 two million dollar concern engaged in manufactu-
ring a steel pipe specialty fitting.

In 1909 Mr. Lee married Miss Alice E. Haney of
Pittsburgh. ‘They have a daughter sixteen years old
and a son, twelve.

 

 

 

A SUGGESTION FROM W. A. HYMAN, ’12

December 24, 192%.

Dear Mr. Penick:
| am herewith forwarding to you check for
$100.00, and although my subscription is fully paid,
let me assure you that I do not intend to let this be

my last payment towards so worthy a cause.

May I add a*word or two without boring you or
taking up too much of your time. I personally do
not feel that I am making a contribution or paying
a subscription, but on the other hand, that I am pay-
Ing but a small part of the obligation I owe W. & i..

for the wonderful benefits derived by me from _ its
sincere, capable and altruistic faculty; the most un-
selfish group of men I have ever come in contact
with anywhere in the world, and for the benefits |
derived from contact with the type of men whom I
had the pleasure of meeting and knowing as friends
at W. & L.

With best wishes for a Merry Christmas, and a
prosperous and happy New Year, in which we will
see the Alumni Association accomplish even greater
results which it so richly deserves, I am,

Sincerely yours,
Wy. A. Hyman, ’12.

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Personal Greetings

Milton Wylie Humphreys, ’69—‘Cordial greetings
with best wishes are hereby sent to all my classmates,
other fellow students, and pupils.”

Irby Boyd, ’76—“So few friends made during my
stay at Washington and Lee live, that I do not care
for either Directory or MAGAzInE. Pictures of the
old college and campus sadden me. With best
wishes—”’

Francis A. Scratchley, ’77, Neurologist, located at
the Author’s Club, London, England—“Thank you
for sending the ALUMNI MaGazine. I’ve just had
a letter from Dr. W. E. Dold, full of sentiment and
love for Virginia and W. and L., which makes me
go back forty-eight years and almost lures me back
for a revisit, but the genial warmth, the cheap living,
the flow of spirits as well as soul and Monte Carlo
hold me—to say nothing of advancing years.”

Robert F. Campbell, ’"79—“I have been preaching
for forty-two years, thirty-four of these years as
pastor of the First Presbyterian Church, Asheville,
N. C. I do not feel old, but even so the majority of
my college contemporaries have joined the Great
Majority on the other side.”

H. P. Scratchley, ’83—‘Forty-three years is a
long time to be away from and not to have visited
an institution. Such is my case. I left Lexington
in 1883 and have never been back there. I have met
in these years but few that I knew when at college.
To those who remember me I send greetings.”

Albert G. Ewing, ’89—“TI greatly enjoyed the Oc-
tober number of the ALUMNI MaGazinE. The let-
ter from Rev. Mercer Blaine, an old classmate of
mine, was read with great pleasure. I was in New
York City, December 11-12, and had the pleasure of
meeting John East, of my class; also, I met Walter
McCorkle; Sam Aunspaugh, Hugh White, Walter
Downman, M. A. Arnold, Sam McGowan, Holmes
Boyd, and others whose names I do not recall, were
in Old Nick’s class with me. What has become of
these men?”

R. W. Jopling, "93, is pastor of the First Presby-
terian Church, Lancaster, S. C. His people have
recently completed a handsome church with ample
modern Sunday school facilities. He sends greet-
ings to all W. and L. U. men.

Edward A. O’Neal, ’98—‘As_ president of the
Alabama Farm Bureau Federation, an organization
working for the economic and educational problems
of Alabama agriculture, and as vice-president of the
American Farm Bureau and chairman of its legisla-
tive committee, am trying to help the great industry
of agriculture in America. It is with great delight
that I meet with my old friends among the alumni
and am delighted to see that they are all doing great

“service in many climes and parts of this country

   
   
  
 
   
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
 
    
 
    
  
 
   
 
   
   
    
 
    
  
  
   

things in their different lines.”
cated at Montgomery, Alabama.

R. E. Moore, ‘00, writes us that his most
achievements have been escaping new obligations -
‘spotting’ book agents before they open the door
the reception room. He is engaged in the prac
of law at Bluefield, West Virginia.. a

A. H. Throckmorton, ‘00, Western Reserve | U
versity Law School, Cleveland, Ohio, is author |
“Cases on Code Pleading,” in the American Ca
book Series just published by the West Publi
Company, St. Paul, Minn. a

Dr. Matthew Page Andrews, ’01, recently a end
the Historico-Patriotic Convention of the U. D
in Richmond, where he made several report
work he had done for that organization. .

Major W. D. A. Anderson, ’O0O—“Since cal
W. and L. in 1900 to enter the U. S. Military Ac
emy, I’ve been continuously in this Army. Dur

Mr. O'Neal is |

has been a special gratification to keep up with 1
great progress made by the old college and to ce
in contact with the fine work done by W. and
alumni.”

E. W. G. Boogher, ’02, of Merchantville, N.
“The Macazine is excellent. I enjoy reading al
my old fellow students, and about W. and L. | z
ters in general.” 24

R. R. Phelps, ‘02—“For reasons too numerous”
mention here, I had lost all contact with W. and
U. But my interest has returned to it anew AS
hope to send my son there next year. The —
is taking all my spare time and energy—and sg
that is not spare—is the establishment of a Kiw;
Club in Hillsboro, of which I have been aa
retary. I think the idea of an ALvumNt Macazi
is excellent and the get up of this is fine. Tell ;
boys I’ve been lost—not dead!” .

“J. Warren Bagley, ’03,” writes one of our alumr
‘is one of the leading men of the country in devi
oping improved methods of topographic surveyin;
After a dozen years in the U. S. Geological Surv:
and service in the Army during the World War, f
accepted permanent appointment as Major in t
Army Engineers in 1920. In this service he ir
specialized on use of aerial photography for maj
ping, developed the Bagley 3-lens camera, now th
standard for this work and developed many Le
provements of method that increased the ac
of results and decreased the time required for prt
duction. Lately he has been developing the Bagle
4-lens camera and an_ exceptional improvement —
triangulation work. ‘This last is based on use 0

(Continued on Page 34)

 

   

:

;

 

Failing to hear from Johnny Sorrells, the last is-
sue of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE carried a short ac-
count of his appointment as managing editor of the
influential Cleveland, Ohio, Daily Press. We now
have his letter which is so interesting that we take
the liberty of publishing it in full:

‘Dear Mr. Kemp:

“Hope you'll excuse my delay in answering you.
It seems like I never have time to do anything, and
yet never have much to show for my time. I am
sending you separately, a picture.

“There’s not a great deal I can tell you.

“T left Washington and Lee in April, 1917, and
entered the first officers training camp at Fort Roots,
Ark. In September, 1917, I was sent to Camp Pike,
Ark. and spent the rest of my army career there as
an instructor in the infantry training camp. After
the War I went to work on the Daily Graphic, in
Pine Bluff, Ark., my home town. I did various
things on the paper, and finally got to be editor.
That was the limit there, and I took a job in Okla-
homa City, on the Daily Oklahoman. I was with it
two years, then went back to Pine Bluff as editor of
the Daily Commercial, After six or eight months I
went to Fort Worth to work on the Fort Worth
Record. | was there several months, went back to
Oklahoma City, then came on to Cleveland fourteen
months ago. And that’s about the story. It has
been up and down, here and there, apparently get-
ting nowhere, yet all the time accumulating a valu-
able experience.

“During this period I have been writing of—em-
bracing about nine years—I acquired a wife and two
children, a boy four years old, and a girl fourteen
months old.

“And that, I guess is the whole story. I have one

EE

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Johnny Sorrells, *1 2

33

 

 

 

ambition, and it’s one that has been thwarted time
and again in the past five years: that is, to get back
to Lexington for a week or two. So near, yet so
far. It seems like I can’t make it. But I’ll continue
to try.
“Sincerely,
“JOHN SORRELLS.”’

 

LOCAL COLLEGIANS ARE MUSIC LOVERS

Washington and Lee students buy a thousand
phonograph records a month say Lexington’s lead-
img music sellers, Weinberg’s and the Corner.
Study of the sales of these firms show that styles in
music change as often as those of clothes.

Last season straight dance music was in greatest
demand, while vocal numbers gathered the dust on
the shelves, but today’s best sellers are the dance
Fecords with vocal refrains sung in fox-trot time.

€ old sentimental refrains have returned to popu-
larity. “Tet Me Call You Sweetheart” has been
€novated and made into a resounding hit. “Mar-

cheta,” written twelve years ago, is another of these
Successful revivals.

On the other hand the popularity of the old fash-
ioned ballads, “The Prisoner’s Song,” “Death of
Floyd Collins,” and “Wreck of the Shenandoah,”
disks that sold by the thousand last year, is dying
fast. 5S

In spite of the large number of radios owned by
students, record sales are the largest in history.
Reasons given for this were the improvement in re-
cording and reproducing devices, and the unusually
large number of song hits.

A check up on sales showed that this month’s song
hits are “Beside a Garden Wall,” “Can’t Get over a
Girl Like You,” “She’s Still My Baby,” “Why
D’yuh Roll Those Eyes?”’, “New St. Louis Blues,”
“Half a Moon,” “Ain’t We Carrying on?” and “12th

Street Rag.”

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

BLUE AND WHITE PROMINENT IN
KENTUCKY

When the Generals and Wildcats lined up in front
of a record crowd, Saturday, October 16th, the Blue
and White supporters were not lacking.

About thirty students left Lexington Friday for
the Blue Grass state. The majority travelled via the
railroad, but several of the more hopeful started by
machine.

Many alumni from all over the state were present.
Louisville made itself conspicuous by sending. the
largest crowd but Frankfort, Richmond and Lexing-
ton itself, where twelve former students of Wash-
ington and Lee are enrolled at the University of
Kentucky, were well represented.

Alumni headquarters were established in the lobby
of the Lafayette Hotel at Lexington (Ky.). Alumni
Secretary Verbon E. Kemp was on hand to greet
visiting alumni.

Those who registered at alumni headquarters for
this game were: Mr. and Mrs. Henry K. Hill, Jr.,
25: M. D. Klein, ’25; E. Clyde Hoge, 07; H. R.
Singleton, ’23; J. W. May, Jr., °16; Carl K. Gil-
christ, ’20; Owen Hisle, ’21; J. C. Myers, 14; J. H.
Halley, ’89; H. M. Wilson, ’26; E. S. McCord, ’17;
J. L. Patterson, ’21; W. R. Knebelkamp, ’21; Cyrus
W. Hall, ’23; R. P. Hobson, ’17; W. W. McBryde,
07; R. J. McBryde, 95; Walter A. McDonald, ’10;
Joe W. Dingess, ’21; Donald E. Meek, °15; James
FE. Moore, 17; Peyton Hobson, ’08; R. L. Gordon,
26; N. W. Klein, Jr., ’26; H. Hogan Smith, Jr.,
‘28: R. F. Burman, ’25; Barron O. Faukconer, °’23;
F. S. Henry, Jr., ‘21; Andrew A. Payne, ’26; Wirt
W. Donnally, ’25; Walker R. Hall, 24; N. C. Allen,
23; Joe Hobson, ’20; “Duke” Perry, ’24; John T.
McVay, ’24; George S. Wilson, Jr., ’25; Joseph B.
Hill, ’26; Kelly J. Francis, 13; E. M. Hoge, 25;
H. St. G. T. Carmichael, "99; Robert M. Bear, ’22;
C. M. Campbell, ’22; C. W. Street, Jr., ’08;. Bill
Stephens, 719.

 

PERSONAL GREETINGS
(Continued )

 

powerful lights at triangulation points and sighting
thereon at night, with saving of more than half the
time normally required for this work.”

A. W. Rutan, ’06, of Santa Ana, California—
“Have tickets for the Alabama-Stanford football
game at Pasadena New Year’s Day. Will say ‘hello’
to president Mike Denny for the Class.”

J. M. B. Gill, ’05—“Having been compelled by
family obligations to relinquish my missionary work
in China, I am now Rector of St. Paul’s Church,
Petersburg, Va., where I will be delighted to wel-

 
 
 
   
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
   
 
  
  
 
  
  
  
   
  
  
   
  
  

come old W. and L. U. friends and any
alumni.”
George J. Dominick, ’07—“Am sales mang 3
the Sherwin Williams Company, Nashville (Tet
Sales Division, including Tennessee, Kentucky,
bama, Georgia and western Florida. I have
recollections of my friends and W. and IL, Us
the most loving and valuable gift to me from J]
ington is my devoted wife, formerly Miss N
Deaver.” a
Thomas F. Opie, D.D., ‘07—“Warmest gree
to all W. and L. men everywhere! I am serving.
Church of the Holy Comforter, Burlington, Na
We have in addition to the regular work of ©
church, a free Community Kindergarten, play-g rot
out-of-door chapel, a mission for the deaf, a
motion pictures of a religious and ethical type. —
January I go to the diocese of Illinois for two wei
having been assigned to that territory during he.
tion-wide Bishops’ Crusade. My heart goes i?
old Lexington and to the class of ’07. Cong
tions on the ALUMNI MaGazINneE and the Alumni
rectory !” “a
Edward H. Deets, ’O8—‘“The Director is |
Hope you make it annual even if not so < 0
each year. Its regularity will constitute its gr
value. Am still engineering. Hope to get bac
W. and L. next year at Finals.” Mr. Deets i
cated at Nashville, Tenn. q
Peyton Hobson, ’08—“Saw the Kentucky g
Lexington in October and enjoyed it. I am in |
of a memorial at Washington and Lee to Cl

Moomaw. He is typical of the Washington
Lee of my time. Why not a Clovis Moomaw §
dium ?” a

FE. T. McIlvaine, 08, who practices law with
fices at Jacksonville and at Miami, Florida, writ
that he “passed through Miami boom and h rri¢
without a scratch.” S

Beirne Stedman, ’09, is practicing law at ¥
Virginia; also Editor of Virginia Law Reg
published at Charlottesville. “Only pernicious |
crastination,” he writes us, “has caused my form
failure to add my mite to help in the wonderful w
of the Alumni Association, The MaGazIn& is 2
excellent.” ae

Rev. F. D. Stevenson, '09—‘Founder of Pea
tree Road Presbyterian Church, Atlanta, ‘
1919 and its pastor till July 1st last. Since Octod
15th, Superintendent Missions Tuscaloosa s
tery with 35 or 40 churches under my care.
pleasant to be where ‘Mike’ lives. He was @ di
ber of Presbytery where I was received in Octobe

Hon. Loomis F. Klutz, °10, was again elected”

 

(Continued on Page 36)

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

W. and L. Abroad—Wnm. M. Miller, *] 3, Persia

As far as | know I am the only W. and L. man in
Persia. When I was in college I had a very vague
‘dea of this ancient empire, and I remember well the
empty feeling I experienced when my classmate,
Shliman Yonan, from West Persia, tried to explain
to me without a map where he lived. A map is of
ereat assistance in making strange names seem real,
* if any of you wish to get a clear picture of my
whereabouts I would suggest that you turn to an at-
las, find Persia if you can, and if the map is a good
ene you will discover in the northeast corner of the
country a city marked Meshed. To you Meshed is
only a name, but to the Moslems of Persia it is the
Rect sacred spot in the Sha’s dominions. For there
under a great golden dome are buried the earthly
remains of the Imam Reza, the eighth in descent from
the Prophet Mohammed, and to this shrine come an-
nually thousands of pilgrims from far and wide
seeking healing for their bodies and peace for their
souls. And in this center of Moslem fanaticism is
located one of the pioneer mission stations of the
Northern Presbyterian Church, with two doctors,
two ministers and an educationalist, who are seeking
to turn the gaze of the people of this province from
a dead Imam to a Living Savior. Three times a
week the doors of our splendid modern hospital are
opened to dispensary patients, and from two hun-
dred to three hundred men, women, and_ children
crowd in to see the doctor. Every once in awhile the
shrine of the Imam is illuminated and drums are
beaten and it is proclaimed that a miracle has been
performed, a sick person has been healed, or a stone
has rolled in to wake the pilgrimage. But every day
a score of miracles of healing and of love are per-
formed by the American doctors, and many who are
disappointed at the shrine come to the hospital and
find what they were seeking.

But our work is not confined to Meshed alone.
In the province about us there live more than a mil-
lion Moslems without doctors, without adequate edu-
cation, and without any power to save them from
sin, and for all of them we have sole missionary re-
sponsibility. Moreover, as the map will show, we
are less than one hundred miles from Afghanistan
on the east and Russia Turkestan on the north, in
neither of which countries is any regular missionary
work being carried on, and we hope some day to en-
ter both these lands. But at present the doors of
both are closed to Christian propaganda by their re-
spective governments. Perhaps by the time we have
made a beginning among the million people who are
accessible to us we may be able to enter these closed
regions also. For our station is new and we have
Only begun to reach our field. ‘There are not many

 

W. M. Miter, °13, “A Moslem wanted a girl”

 

missionaries these days who have the privilege of
doing absolutely pioneer work, for in most lands
Christian missions have been carried on for many
years. But until six years ago only one man_ had
been baptized in this great province, and as I write
[ am working in a city which has not been visited
by any missionary for ten years and in which no
Moslem has ever been baptized as a Christian.

Our purpose in visiting these outlying cities is to
give the people a more correct knowledge of the life
and teachings of Jesus and if possible to form in
each larger town a group of Christian converts who
will little by little grow into a church. But progress
among Moslems is very slow indeed. For they have
an entirely false conception of Christianity and of
Christ, and they are convinced that Jesus foretold
the coming of Mohammed, and that Mohammed is
in every respect a more perfect guide for men than
Jesus. Mohammed with his nine wives, his robbing
of caravans, his slaughters of his enemies, and his
compromise with idolatry. And so wherever we go
we sell scriptures. In a few minutes I am going to
the bazaar of this little town and walk up and down
in front of the shops offering my books for sale—
whole Bibles 20 cents, New Testaments 10 cents,

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

single gospels 2 cents.
but those who can eagerly buy these attractively
printed books till the priests pass out the word that
the books are false, and then my sales suddenly
stop!

Sometimes people come to me with strange re-
quests. Not long ago a villager greeted me in the
bazaar saying that he had heard of me and had been
looking for me all day. Here, I thought, is a man
who wants to know the truth! So I invited him to
go to my room and tell me what he wanted. As we
walked along he said, “Do you have very good
books ?”

“Yes,” I replied, “My books are very good in-
deed.”

“Do they have charts?” he asked.

“No,” I said, “They don’t have charts, but their
teaching is excellent. What do you want with
charts ?”

“Do they have good prayers?”

“Yes, but what do you wart prayers for?”

At that he drew near and whispered in my ear,
“It’s a girl. For fifteen years I’ve been in love with
a girl, and they won't give her to me. Haven’t you
any charms or prayers in your books that will get
her for me?” The poor fellow was so dead in earn-
est that I restrained a smile and took him home with
me, trying to explain as we walked along that we
did have a right to pray for things we wanted, but
that we should always be ready to leave the matter
in God’s hands, sure that He would do what was
best for us. After an hour’s conversation I prayed
with him and asked the Lord to give him his sweet-
heart if it was possible! But he went away deeply
disappointed, for he had hoped that I could write a
prayer for him to wear on his arm or to give to the
lady to wear that would surely get her into his pos-
session! If such prayers could be manufactured I
think one might find sales for them even in America!

Persia’s new Shah is a vigorous ruler and he seems
to be striving to put his kingdom in order. But he
has a difficult task. For what hope is there for
progress when more than 90% of the population are
illiterate, when thousands of them are the slaves of
opium, when the taking of bribes is practically uni-
versal and when men have no living faith in God to
quicken the conscience and spur them to the service
of men? It is our great privilege at such a time to
stand in Persia as witnesses of Jesus Christ who
alone is able to set free the captives of sin, heal the
broken lives of the poor and the needy, and give
peace of heart and strength of purpose and _ living
hope to those who are without hope and without
God. There is not one of the sons of Washington
and Lee with whom I would think for a moment of
changing places! Wm. McE. Miter, ’12.

Very few people can read,

PERSONAL GREETINGS
(Continued )

a

 

   
 
 
  
    
  
  
 
 
   
    
 
  
 
   
   
 
  
  
   
   
    
  
   
   

Representative from Catawba County in the’ E
Carolina House of Representatives on Tuesday, N
vember 2nd. Mr. Klutz was the only Republic
official elected in Catawba County, the ae
ing democrats by large majorities. i
O. H. Breidenbach, ‘11, Palm Beach G veal
Company, West Palm Beach, Florida—“‘Have he
here about two years. Treasurer of Mort |
vestment Company; Treasurer and Bond officer |
Palm Beach Guaranty Company with duties as a
manager and advertising manager. Both Comp
are engaged in mortgage, financing and banking”
Wayne Ely, *11—‘‘Have been engaged in gener
law practice in St. Louis since 1921. Was Assis
U. S$. Attorney 1920-21, and in August, 1926,
appointed Special Assistant Attorney conta
Missouri. I intend to visit Lexington next summ
on a motor trip to the East. Am raising two for
ball stars for W. and L. 1936 team.” a
ee F. Hepner, *11—‘I am at present a Capta
in U. S. Army Field Artillery, upon duty with (
eadgell Reserves.”
Wesley Preston Jackson, °11, has been for te
years manager of the Bookkeeping Department ¢
the Citizens Bank and Trust Company, Tam my
Florida. At present he is Cashier of the Fran
Bank of that city. a
A. C. Pole, *11—“I am in the Jewelry business |
the Homestead Hotel, Hot Springs, Virginia. Od
partner and [ took this shop over and operate it fe :
ourselves. Started August 16th, 1926, under
name of Maas & Pole.”
Bruce R. Richardson, ‘11, and Carl Wallinewia )
are in the Engineering Department of Virginia F I
Springs Company at Hot Springs, Virginia. 4
Robert C. Dow, °12—‘‘Carry me_ back to
Virginia—back to Washington and _ Lee.’
thought is always passing through my mind, and
know of no better way of getting back than to st
scribe for the Alumni Macazine and Directory.
Mr. Dow is Attorney General of New Mexico, I
cated at Santa Fe. ee
Edmond Fleming Burk, Jr., °13—‘“The  bigges
thing I have undertaken since I left W. and L. if
the class of ’13, is my marriage to Edith Carter 0
Texarkana, Texas, on November 14, 1926.” 2
William H. Dillingham, Jr., '13—“Civil Engineer
Six years work with railroad and mining comps anies
in South America. (Peru, Bolivia, Equador, Pat
ama, Venezuela.) At present working with Coun!
Surveyor of Anne Annadel Company, AnnapoHs

ee oe
<<

“a

-.

(Continued on Page 38)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

Letters

Hartford, Conn.,
December 15, 1926.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

[ hasten to send in my subscription with check for
$2.50. I really owe you an apology for not having
onswered various communications received from you
in the past year or SO. Please excuse me _ this time
and I will try to do better in the future.

This Yankee country isn’t bad at all, though every
now and then I think of coming back to Lexington
or thereabouts, and get quite a thrill from the pros-
pect. Present indications are that I will be here for
some time, however, and I would like the ALUMN!
MacazInE addressed Berkeley Cox, Attorney Aetna
Life Insurance Company, Hartford, Conn.

About once a year Raymond Womeldorf and |
exchange letters, and in his last, he enclosed the
snap-shot which I am forwarding. It might make
en interesting illustration for you. The description
of the smiling Chinaman is on the back of the pic-
ture.

With best wishes,

Sincerely,
BERKELEY Cox, ‘14.

53. Avenue Petain,
Shanghai, China.

Dec. 10, 19206.
Dear Verbon:

| have been trying to get a chance to write you
ever since I returned to China, but I have been so
busy with the getting of our work started that |
have had little time for writing.

We have gotten a splendid start with our work,
and now tho we have been here at Dong Kong only
about six weeks we have our school running nicely,
and a small hospital and dispensary that are work-
ing over time among the sick both in this town and
Two of

tiny former students are with me, one a _ teacher of

among those of the surrounding regions.

some little experience and the other the doctor that
originally got me interested in this kind of work.
The difference made by our being here in this town
is really wonderful. Our students are taking a great
deal of interest in their work, and especially in the
athletics that we are teaching them.

As I think you know, while I was at home | was
raising funds for the beginning of this work, and
Was most successful along stamp lines and through
Private donations in getting sufficient money for a
hue start. Now I am hoping to raise a_ sustaining
fund that will insure our carrying on. I am hoping
to get some hundred of my friends interested in giv-
ing five dollars a year, not as a pledge in any way,

 

RAYMOND WoMeE.porr, ‘18
With his Chinese teacher
“An old Confucian scholar”

 

 

but merely if possible. It is not a large sum, but
with it we can carry on a most useful work among
these poor ignorant people. If you know of anyone
whom I might be able to interest I should be glad to
write them and send them some pictures of this place.

Dong Kong, where we are located, is not so far in
actual distance from Shanghai, but it is a rotten long
trip via slow boat and on foot, and I have not made
it since coming here, nor shall I often. Our greatest
disadvantage is in our lack of communication with
the outside world or even with events happening here
in China. We have no post office facilities and have
to rely on the above Shanghai address and have our
mail reforwarded from there via the slow coolie
route. News we have little of. The place itself is
beautifully located just in the midst of very high
mountains on the banks of a fast flowing stream of
as pure water as water gets in China!

I wish you could see the house that we call our
home. It is typical Chinese mud and bamboo shack
with no floors and no way in the world of heating.
As yet it has not turned cold, but we are looking for
a very cold winter, and have made all preparations
for it in the way of heavy clothes. I know how cold
a Chinese winter can get. Our food also is of the
Chinese variety, but as I like it almost all I am not
suffering in any way, and am even thriving on tea
and rice in the place of water and bread.

Yours sincerely,
“J.” Howe, 718.

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 4

PERSONAL GREETINGS
( Continued )

 

Md. Second Lieutenant, Aviation Section,
Reserve Corps, U. S. Army.

Henry C. Groseclose, ex ’13—“Those pictures and
write-ups of Jim Somerville, Lapsley Carson and
others, which appeared in the October ALumni
MAGAZINE, deepened my inferiority complex a few
shades. They also deepened my appreciation of, and
pride in, the achievement of the men who have at-
tended Washington and Lee.”

Judge T. L. Keister, ’13—‘Practicing law in Sa-
lem; member of the firm of Hobard and Keister.
Was first Lieutenant Field Artillery A. E. F. during
the World War. Appointed Judge of the Twentieth
Judicial Circuit, succeeding Herbert B. Gregory, an-
other Washington and Lee man, who was appointed
Judge of the Court of Law and Chancery of the
City of Roanoke.”

G. Fred Ordeman, ’13—“I am at present Assist-
ant Superintendent of the Acid Works and Asphalt
Division of Standard Oil Company of Whiting, In-
diana. I am President of the Standard Oil Ath-
letic Association which comprises the 4,000 employ-
ees at this refinery.”

Claude Smith, ’13—“Practicing law at Tucson,
Arizona, ‘the City of Sunshine.’ Exalted Ruler B.
P. O. Elks. Have served a term in State Senate.
Have been Adjutant and first Vice-Commander
American Legion. Past Commander Disabled Amer-
ican Veterans of the World War. Never married,
and John W. Davis’ picture is still on display in my
office.”

F. L. Davis, ’14—‘Am no longer connected with
Peoples National Bank, but am Special Agent for
Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company; also,
operating small farm near Abingdon, Virginia, but
live in town.”

J. Lee Hornor, ’14—‘Engaged in coal operating
and brokerage firm of J. Lee Hornor, Inc., Clarks-
burg, West Virginia. Married and have three boys
—all well and happy.”

George Goodwyn Joynes, Jr., ’14—“Am still with
the First National Bank of Onancock, Virginia,
where I have been since 1917.”

Signal

H. M. Tanner, ’14, is now Referee in Bankruptcy
for Southern District of West Virginia; was for-
merly partner of H. B. Lee, Attorney-General of
West Virginia, and has recently written a book on
Criminal Law.

Grady H. Forgy, "16—‘“The ALUMNI MaGazINnE
is the best I have seen from any University, and it is
needless to say how much I enjoy it and reading of
the happenings to all the older W. and L. men. I
have a wonderful wife and three fine children; there-

  
 
 
 
  
  
    
   
  
  
   
  
  
  
  
    
   
   
 
   
   
   
  
  

fore, have been living worth while. At present ¢
Director of the State Service Bureau and Dep
Service Officer for Arkansas Department, Am
Legion, with offices in the Old State Capitol
would certainly like to see any W. and L. man th
comes to Little Rock.” a

John L. Early, ’17—‘*Am practicing law at
sota, Florida. Married in June, 1923, and now nay
a three months old son—a fine chap. Getting al |
fine!”

A. $. Johnston, Jr., ’17—‘‘Am and have been ¢
ployed as editor of the ‘ele Register, a new
per published at Beckley, West Va. Have bees
employed since 1920, shortly after discharge fro
W. & L. ambulance unit, June, 1919,”

Marion S$. Sanders, *17—‘‘Instead of waiting {
the usual strain ‘Carry me back to old Virgal
decided to come back before that was necessar
and have joined A. Carter Crymble, ex ’18, in th
Crymble Electric Company, Inc., Contracting ar
Engineering, located at Bristol, Va. fe a

James C. Ambler, ’18—“My chief busine
Supt. of Schools of Fauquier County, trying to ge
the system efficient and economically sound. How
ever, I am involved in a great deal of outside wo
in the Rotary Club, the County Chamber of om
merce and the American Legion. One thing I an
not involved in is matrimony.” a

LeRoy B. Huckin, *18—“My work as a Lawyée
and Police Justice of this city convince me that a
young men need some training such as is receive
at W. & L. Greetings to all those who spent w t
me the glorious days at old W. & L,” aa

T. O. Campbell, ’20—“Commenced _ practicin;
law in Richmond, Va., April 1921, with law office
in the Travelers Building, in which place I have bee
practicing ever since. . Was a candidate for th
House of Delegates from Hanover and King Wii
liam Counties in the last Primary election and ou
of a total of 1850 votes cast was defeated by 5.
votes. Am still single. Have specialized =
the practice of Chancery Practice.” 7

Hugh M. Shirey, ’20—‘“‘For more than a year,
have been the Purchasing Agent for Curtis Bros
Company, canners and preservers of fruits and ves
etables. I buy the supplies for our Rochestelill
Y. factory as well as the five others in New Yor =
and New Jersey. After the War I went to Mas
Inst. Tech., graduating in 1922. I don’t see any
& L. men.” .

John H. Bonner, ’21, was married June 30th 0
Miss Margaret Moore of Smithfield, N. C. x

W. Gage Boyd, ’21—“At present I am_ soliciting
insurance for the Manhattan Life Insurance Com

 

(Continued on Page 40)

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel Plan Developing Fast

During the past two months twelve new hotels
have heen added to the list’ of
Ajumni Hotels which are serving throughout the

Intercollegiate

country as headquarters for alumni activities in their
respective communities.

The Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel Plan, as has
heen reported in a previous issue, is sponsored by
the alumni organizations of more than eighty col-
leges and universities throughout the country. ‘The
Intercollegiate Alumni Extension Service, Inc., the
central organization which has been created to carry
out the plan, reports that traveling alumni are al-
ready beginning to make good use of the card in-
dexes containing the names of residential alumni,
which are on file at every designated hotel. Many
alumni have also written in expressing their pleasure
at finding the current issues of their alumni publica-
tions awaiting them upon their arrival at these ho-
tels.

Several of the Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels have
set aside a definite place in which the alumni publi-
cations are kept on file.

Alumni secretaries generally have instructed their

local club officers to co-operate actively with the
aims of the Intercollegiate’ Alumni Hotel Plan, there-
by insuring the concentration of alumni affairs at
the designated hotels. In several cities small alumni
clubs of a size insufficient to maintain a_ separate
association have combined to form “intercollegiate
local clubs” founded on mutual territorial interests.

The latest group of hotels to be designated in-
cludes:

Neil House, Columbus, Ohio: Vere Marquette, Pe-
oria, [ll.: Wolford, Danville. IIL:
more, Md.; St. James, San Diego, Calif.; Park Ho-
tel, Madison, Wis.; O’Henry, Greensboro, N. C.:
Sheraton, High Point, N. C.; Charlotte, Charlotte,
N. €.; George Vanderbilt, Asheville, N. C.; Francis
Marion, Charleston, S. C.; Ponce de Leon, Aliami,
Fla.

There are now forty-five Intercollegiate Alumni

Southern, Balti-

Hotels scattered throughout the country in what
promises soon to become an imposing array of focal
points for the combined alumni activities of .\mer-
ica’s foremost institutions of higher’ learning.

 

 

 

ARE YOU A
YA-LO FAN?

THOUSANDS of Football Coaches, Players and

ans are YA-LO Fans, because YA-LO, The Foot-
ball Card Game is so realistic and scientific. It is
developed on correct football principles and involves
every working rule of the great College Sport.

| NOT A TOY
E. J. GRABER, ~
179 S. Ludlow St..
Columbus, O.
enclosed, tind $1.50
tor which please send
Postpaid, One Set of YA
".O, the Football Card Game,

With understanding that I may

money will be refunded.

 

It is full of suspense, thrills and true compe-
WI tition. Its unlimited variety makes it devoid of
oo monotony and of spell-bounding interest. No

two games in half a million will be played alike.

EQUIPMENT includes Playing Field, Aluminum Football, Ten-Yard Marker, Two
Decks of Cards, Offensive and Defensive. 200 Cards—six plays on each. Lwery com-
hination different. 7500 possible plays.

EDUCATES THE NOVICE—-DEVELOPS THE SMART

The more you play YA-LO, the more you want to
it.
long Winter months.

return it, if not satisfied, and my . play

479 S.

 

Get the real “kick” out of football during the

Send for a set TO-DAY,

E. J. GRABER
LUDLOW ST. - - COLUMBUS, OHIO

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

e

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse, Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO.), Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

WEINBERG'’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

 

PERSONAL GREETINGS
( Continued )

 

—_—_—_—

pany of New York. Have been with them

January, 1921.”
William A. Gibbons, Jr., *21—‘“I am now ngage
in the Real Estate Mortgage Loan business, my po

   
  
   
 
    
   
   
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
    
  

*
&

sition being manager of the Roanoke Moprteac
Company, with offices in the Mountain Trust Ba
3uilding. A cordial invitation is extended all of m

former classmates and schoolmates to call by to se
me when they are in Roanoke.” a
Charles I,.. Gilkeson, ex ’21—‘‘After leaving W. §
l.. in 1919, IT went to Mass. Inst. Tech. for my
training in electrical engineering and since then have
been in engineering work first in Philadelphia ane
now with the National Electric Light Association jn
New York City. 1 might add that I am single with
no matrimonial intentions.’ =
Walter V. Ross, ’21 (formerly of Ross & Ros
now Prosecuting Attorney of Mercer County, West
Virginia, has recently announced the opening of of
fices for the general practice of law, Rooms 220-

221. Law & Commerce Building, Bluefield, Weal
Va. 3

Herman K. Tramell, Jr., ’22, is local counsel fo
the Southern Railway Company, in Jellico, Tennes-

see. He is also City Judge, Recorder and Treasure
of that city, and president of the Kiwanis
“The Alumni Association,” he writes, “keeps alive
my great interest in W. & L. U. and her sons.”
Charles DeSaussure. ‘23, is in the Abstract bt as

       

ness and is located in Bartow, Florida. 5
Frank B. Hurt, “Since finishing at W. & ie
I have been pursuing graduate work. I received he

M. A. degree at Virginia in Economics, 1925; and
the M. A. in History at Princeton, 1926. At pres:
ent I am an applicant for the Ph.D. degree, and nr
Instructor at the University of North Carolina.”

Douglas S. Perry, ex ’23, is Group Assistant ©
the Travelers Insurance Company, with branch of
fice at New Haven, Conn. 4

Archie Phelps, ’23—“Am now traveling in Ne th
and South Carolina for the famous ‘Snider’s
sup’ of the T. A. Snider Preserve Company.
best wishes to all alumni and especially the
tary.” os

Raymond M. Fleshman, ’24—“Our football val
won the State High School championship this year
and we W. & L. alumni here are trying our best t¢
get some of the members of this great team to go | to
W. & L. Would welcome some of our represe =
tives of W. & L. down this way to help us get a tes
boys started toward Lexington.” a

S. Arthur Glickstein, °24—‘“Am_ bucking ™
wilds of this man’s town in my own office NOW—

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

fortunately have still remained aloof from the
hallowed ranks of the benedicts.”

Walker R. Hall, ex °’24. is Cashier of the
City National Bank of Clay City, Kentucky.

put

Clay

Robert W. Lochridge, ‘24—‘‘I am associated with
father in the Hardware and Furniture business,

my

located in \layfeld, Wentucky. Enjoyed reading
the ALUMNI MAGAZINE sent to me, and have also
received the Alumni Directory. With best wishes

for all my former classmates.”

jimmy F. Seals, ‘24—"‘Engaged in Traffic work
with the Signal Mountain Portland Cement Com-
pany, of Chattanooga, Tennessee.”

Darby H. Brown, °25 graduation |
have been connected with Jemison Real Estate Com-
the Department, Ala-
test wishes and a Happy New Year.”

 

“Since my

pany in Sales Birmingham,

bama.

William H. Cluverius, *25—‘‘I am doing account-
ing work with the Port Utilities Commission of
Charleston, S. C., and as vet haven't succeeded in
making a fortune. I am continuing my study of
advertising, which is my hobby, and I will do some-
thing in this field soon.

Archie R. (‘Red’) Hawkins, ’25, is with the
Sunniland Realty Company with offices in the
Thelma Hotel, Lakeland, Florida.

Frank Lowe, °25, is with the Newton Realty
Company of Ft. Myers, Florida.

Brown Miller, ’25—‘“My marriage to Margaret

Ann Yost. of Fairmont. West Va.. was an event of
Nov. 29th. 1926.

inois. as Assistant

Am now located in Danville, Ill-
Agent Miller
I was in the Illinois U.
Stadium when the W. & L.-Princeton score was an-
nounced over the loud speaker.
my exultation—!”

Purchasing for

Fain Control Corporation.
You can well imagine
H. Austin Spang, Jr.. "25—“I am still
put into practice at
Haven, Connecticut, a few points I learned at the
Commerce School of old W. & L.”

W. Hill Brown, Jr.. ’26—‘Since graduating last
June, | have been connected with the Law Depart-
ment of the Southern Railway System. My office
is located at 1300 and Pennsylvania Ave., Washing-
ton, D. C. TI have often longed to be back at W. &

lL. and with the friends I have there, but such, of
course, is impossible.

4 trying to
the Mechanics Bank of New

The only possible way by
Which | will be able to keep in touch with my Alma
Mater and friends is through the ALUMNI Maca-
ZINE, which ] the valuable
Pieces of work possible for the happy existence of
every W. & L. man.”

= GC. Glass. ’26. of St. Louis, Missouri, who is

consider one of most

at present attending Johns Hopkins University in
Pe : A “ . . ; 2
Baltimore, Md.. says, ‘Grad. school isn’t all it’s
Cracked up to be.”

41

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND
PRINTERS
Office Equipment and Supplies

DALTON
ADDING MACHINES

ROYAL
TYPEWRITERS

SURBER
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

  

   

ROOSEVELT Mount Roya
New York Montreal] Minneapolis Rochester

 
 
  
 
   
    
    
 
   
  

MAIN FEATURES OF THE INTERCOLLEGIATE
ALUMNI HOTEL MOVEMENT ’

   

SY
WILLARD
Washington

Interested alumni can secure from a clerk at the desk of each Inter-
collegiate Alumni Hotel an information leaflet which describes in —
detail the Intercollegiare Alumni Hotel movement.

< .

At each Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel there will be maintained a card
index of the names of all the resident alumni of all the participating "
institutions. This will be of especial benefit to traveling alumni in 3
locating classmates and friends. 3

 

The current issues of the alumni publications of all the participating —
institutions will be on file at cach Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel. -

 

OAKLAND
Oakland, Calif. : ; ;
que Reservation cards will be available at the clerk’s desk in each des- —
ignated hotel and at the alumni office in each college or university.
These reservation cards will serve as a great convenience to travel-

lers in securing advance accommodations.

   

ii
4a

ee - 5 . . fi
ea} The managers of all Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels are prepared to —
— cooperate with individual alumni to the fullest extent and are also —

prepared to assist in the creation of new local alumni associations —
and in the development and extension of the activities of those already —
formed, q

 

————
UrpaNna-LIncoLNn

Urbana, Ill.

 
 

ej |
i
5

 
 

i
|

A . ,
aRY
. it
j eps
a7 = -
4 je ooo)
Sieacco«
eT Woe ans
'
«
2 7
| iY
ee “te TY
;

a
8

 

3 ~
7
i .
say
puooy
pee
yeu
irae
7
= =
4
oa

   

eee, : » \ 7 =" 7
SCHENLEY CALIFORNIAN Saint Paut MULTNOMAH PaLace —
Pittsburgh Fresno St. Paul Portland, Ore. San Franep<3

 

