es =

NT...

a

~ VoL. Il

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

JANUARY 1926 No. 2

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

a!

A FT cleat to Coach DeHart

(By Dr. R. Granville Campbell, member
of the Athletic Council for the squad and
Alumni, to bid farewell to DeHart and to
zwvelcome Pat Herron, at the annual Alumni
hanquet, November 30, 1925.)

We have had at Washington and Lee many able
and efficient football mentors. Only three may be
mentioned in the time allowed me.

“Jogger” Elcock of Dartmouth, an all-American
selection and an exceptionally fine coach in every
sense of the word.

Around him were gathered such stars as Buck
Miles, Al Perotti, Bob Ignico, Ted Schultz, Johnnie
Barrett, Cannonball Beuhring, Gally Paxton, Battle
Bagley, Jiggs Donohue, Cy Young, Ira Sims, Buck
Sweetland, Frank Scarry, Paul Sanford, Ollie Daves,
Mercer Graham and others.

Three players should be mentioned who have passed
to the Great Beyond—dear old Fats Miller, one of
the finest and most lovable fellows who ever played
at Washington and Lee; Jesse Wadsworth, also as
fine a man as ever donned a uniform; and Clovis
Moomaw, later professor in the Law School and one
of the greatest and most influential of the Alumni of
Washington and Lee.

This story would be incomplete without mention
being made of another great Coach, one of whom we
are especially proud because he is of our own, a star
athlete and alumnus of Washington and Lee—Bill
Raftery. To name some of the stars on his teams
will indicate the character of his work and influence.
Cy Young, Turner Bethel, Joe Silverstein, Daddy
Potts, Sam Raines, Lindsey Moore, Monk Mattox,
Jimmy Mattox, Student Frew, Punk Walters, Doc
Rangely, Hop Arbogast, Dorr Tucker, Pat Collins,
Ed Bailey, and others who upheld the honor of the
Big Blue Team during this regime.

Last but not least of the great factors in football
history at Washington and Lee in recent years, must
be mentioned magna cum laude, one who wears a
gold football of the present leaders of the All South-
ern Conference, and is entitled to wear the similar
insignia of Washington and Lee, the Honorable
George Hutcheson Denny, A.B., M.A., Ph.D., LL.D.,
now president of the University of Alabama, but bet-
ter and more affectionately known to Washington and
Lee students as “Mike” Denny.

Tue CoacH—THE MAN oF tHE Hour—JAMES
DEHART

Without detracting in the least from the renown
and admirable characteristics of any or all of our
coaches of the past, Jimmy DeHart must be referred
to as the “MAN OF THE HOUR.” The record of
a successful coach must be viewed in three aspects,
namely, the Man, the Player, the Coach.

As Man and Player:

As a man, DeHart has all these qualities which we
attempt to inculcate here at Washington and Lee:
modest, indefatigable in everything which he under-
takes, devoid of egotism, yet certain, self reliant when
the time for decision and action arrives, a human dy-
namo for efficiency and accomplishment.

Trained in the high schools of Pennsylvania, these
qualities displayed themselves before his admission
to the University of Pittsburgh; four years of con-
scientious attention to all class work and an unusual
record in athletics, two records which are not at all
incompatible, certain academic opinions to the con-
trary notwithstanding.

At Pitt, DeHart was a four letter man, a very ex-
ceptional record. In football, with which we are
chiefly concerned at present, he was a “flash,” a “triple
threat,”” a Red Grange before the latter appeared on
the horizon with a most capable press agent at his el-
bow.

In one game against Washington and_ Jefferson,
DeHart gained 288 yards; in another against the
Navy (and that was a great year when the Navy had
a great team) he pulled the phenomenal stunt of sav-
ing the game for his team by running 105 yards for
a touchdown. You may say, “Yes, but suppose he
had been downed behind his goal line!” Yes, but he
wasn’t! That’s the answer—that’s the kind of man
he is. To call the roll of some of his players will
show the type of players he turns out. Kay Thomas,
Pat Hatcher, Doug Bemis, Tex Tilson, Charley Terry,
Decoy Daves, Red Hawkins, Tom Bemis, Student
Frew, Pat Hamilton, Hénry Wilson, Bo McMillan,
Eddie Cameron, Harry Dawson, Dug Wingo, Monk
Mattox, Jimmie Thomas, Pop Vogel, Monk Mc-
Donald, Duke Perry, Dutch Wagner, Evvy Burke,
Dorr Tucker, Mike Palmer, Ty Rauber, Jonnie Mc-
Vay, Maynard Holt, Van Horn, Bud Budnick, Storey
Stemmons, Johnny Dawson, Horse Tips, Babe. Spotts.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Others who deserve honorable mention and praise for
their work at all times are Count Barclay, Curly
Sanders, Bobby Howe, Hoot Gibson, Tommy
Stearnes, Count Edgerton, Rhyder Lathan, Bruce
Jackson, Fanning Hearon, Ben Davenport, Rec Rec-
tor, and Fish Fisher.

Al) these men reflect honor on DeHart. They
would be an honor to any University or team in the
country.

As Coach:

Coming to Washington and Lee wearing the Alli-
American honors conferred on him by the late Wal-
ter Camp, DeHart continued the success he had
achieved at Georgia. But more important than mere
victories he has achieved the building of a _ system
based in its essentials upon the best ideals dear to
- every son of Washington and Lee. Clean play,
sportsmanlike conduct, the never-say-die spirit are the
heart and center of his system.

In football strategy and tactics he has no superior,
if he has an equal. He has developed a number of
stars, but team work is the strength of his system,
all for one and one for all. The esprit de corps of
the squad is the highest in the history of football at
Washington and Lee.

In his four years as General-in-Chief of a team
composed entirely of “Generals,” he has made a most
_ enviable record. In four years the Big Team under
DeHart has won 14 out of 20 conference games
played, lost four and tied two. Of the four games
lost and the two tied, Virginia, V. P. I. and Ken-
tucky accounted for four of the six, and each of these
teams was later decisively defeated. Only one team,
Florida, has thus far escaped retaliation. In our re-
lations with rival teams, there has been a steady in-
crease of the friendly feeling already begun. De-
Hart has carried the heaviest schedules which Wash-
ington and Lee ever undertook. He has not feared

to risk his reputation as a coach with such killing

schedules. When, in the past, would Washington and

   
  
    
   
 
   
   
   
    
  
   
  
 
  
  
 

Lee have dared to take on Pittsburg, Princeton, K,
tucky, V. P. I., West Virginia, Virginia, Marya
North Carolina State and Florida in as many
and to get away with it?

When the great stadium is completed on .
Field the names of DeHart and of all those who h
worked with him on the coaching staff for the p;
four years, as well as the captains and team a
bers, will be remembered for a great part of it, thar
to one of the greatest travelling football organizatio oI
of the country; a team composed of bona fide studer
if not all Phi Beta Kappa nominees; a team of »
tlemen commanded by a gentleman, a scholar and tl
ablest coach of recent years, a General of Genera
JIMMY DeHART, of Pittsburgh and Washingtor
and Lee. Coach, the Alumni in this their annu:
meeting, through me as their poor spokesman, wished
you to know what they think of you. They tru
that in the years to come you will look upon this Us
versity as your second Alma Mater, and you may re
assured that the latch string will always be on the ot
side to you, and the doormat inscribed in flaming le
ters, “Welcome back, honored and adopted son |
Washington and Lee.” 3

Our pride in the University is justified, jam
Barron Hope, poet laureate of Virginia some
before his death expressed this very strikingly wh
he wrote:

“Your past is full of glories,
It is a shut-in-sea
And the pillars overlooking it
Are Washington and Lee.
These two shall ride immortal:
They shall ride abreast of time
They shall light up stately history
And blaze in epic rhyme.”
The Generals, triumphant in victory, unvanquishec
in defeat. a
Jimmy, we are sorry to lose you. Pat, we are glad
to get you. We really need you both.

 

 

 

LOCAL ALUMNI GIVE BANQUET TO
WASHINGTON AND LEE FOOTBALL
SQUAD AND COACHES

Following a pleasant custom inaugurated last’ year,
local alumni were hosts at a banquet recently tendered
the Washington and Lee varsity and freshman foot-
ball squads, coaches and managers. Covers were laid
for more than 100 at the Washington and Lee dining
- hall at 8 o'clock. About thirty-five were alumni. E.
P. Davis presided.

Addresses were made by Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
Coach James DeHart, and “Pat” Herron, who takes
DeHart’s place at Washington and Lee next year, by
Captain Kay Thomas and ex-Captain Tilson of the

       
   
  
 
  
   
 
  

team, and by Dr. R. G. Campbell, who reviewed the
work of the retiring coach in complimentary terms.

The banquet closed four years’ service of Coach
DeHart, who goes to Duke University, and a most
successful season at Washington and Lee. “Pé %
Herron, who succeeds him, was one of DeHart’s team»

mates at Pittsburgh. a

During the evening Professor Forest Fletcher
awarded the following football monograms: Capt in
J. K. Thomas, R. I. Daves, W. E. Tilson, R. M. Holt, |
M. I. Budnick, L. S. Stemmons, J. H. Dawson, Cal
E. Van Horn, A. R. Hawkins, E. G. Barker, H. 5+
Spotts, J. T. McVay, H. M. Wilson, B. B. Tips, Le
J. Rauber, W. Palmer, R. W. Whitley, manager.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

FINANCIAL REPORT ON ATHLETICS

An interesting report has been made on the re-
ceipts and disbursements of the Athletic Association
by its secretary. In addition, under the direction of
graduate manager R. A. Smith, about $40,000 has
been paid out on the new stadium during the past four
years. Most of this amount was derived from foot-
ball proceeds. Hats off to Dick Smith and Coach
DeHart! Now that the outstanding indebtedness
has been relieved, excavations and additions to the
stadium and field, to cost about $15,000, have been be-
gun.

The annual report of the Association showing
profit and loss for 1925, as of September Ist, was as
follows:

 

Loss Gain

Gridgraph .....sosee eee. os $377.55
moxing. .....+ dane ean 160.22
Mentball .... scm emia -. 14,401.50
Merestling ... ii. dae eee eee $ 235.92
Swimming ....yss sees saeee 68.03
ew... .. os os ee 91.12
Meenis ...... senna 123.00
Te 2,585.81
meack (Frosh) /9.)oapeeeee 244.75
meeeball ....i.sleaeeeeee 1,736.07
museball (F.) <<. jen eemeuees 506.44
mesketball ... issue nee 1,301.15
masketball (F.): vsicgens ees 145.65
meotball (F.) \.cseesmeeee 109.85
Peeral .. :.. . «sateen 7,689.53

wotal...... «ss ose $14,837.32 $14,920.27

Balance, Sept. 1, 1925, $91.95.

Under the head listed in the report as “general” are
the assets of the campus tax and damage fund. The
liabilities of this item are salaries, money spent in
building the stadium and payment of interest on notes
amounting to over $7,000.

1926 FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

Sept. 25—Lynchburg College, at Lexington.

Oct. 2—West Va., at Charleston.

Oct. 9—Princeton, at Princeton.

Oct. 16—Kentucky, at Lexington, Ky.

Oct. 23—Georgia Tech, at Atlanta, Ga.

eet, 31 VY, dee

Nov. 6—Virginia, at Charlottesville.

Nov. 13—Maryland, at Lexington.

Noy. 20—( Thanksgiving) Florida, at Jacksonville.

 

Have you forgotten to renew your subscription to
the ALumny MAGAZINE? If it has expired send your

check for $2.00 to the Alumni Secretary, Drawer
897, Lexington, Va,

SUCCESSFUL GRID SEASON CLOSES

The composite record for the 1925 Football season,
was as follows:

Sept. 26—W. & L., O—Pittsburg, 28.

Oct. 3—W. & L., 10—Furman, 14.
10—W. & L., 6—Princeton, 15.
17—W. & L., 25—Kentucky, 0.
24—W. & L., 20—V. P. L, 0.
31—W. & L., O—West Va., 28.

Nov. 7—W. & L., 12—Virginia, 0.
14—W. & L., 10—Maryland, 7.
21—_W. & L., 14—N. C. State, 0.
28—W. & L., 14—Florida, 21.

Opening the season against Pittsburgh, the Wash-
ington and Lee team presented a sluggish offence and
ragged defence. They were outlucked in an eccen-
tric game against Furman University, of South Car-
olina, the following week. A most creditable show-
ing was made at Princeton on October 10th, where the
Generals threatened the famed ‘Tigers constantly.
Against the University of Kentucky the Blue and-
White warriors presented the most finished exhibi-
tion of the entire season. They were almost perfect
in every type of play. Fighting in a sea of mud
against V. P. I. the next Saturday, the same brilliancy
of offence and defence was in evidence. There was
a distinct let down, however, at Charleston against
West Virginia. With Henry Wilson, spirited quar-
ter out, the team played a listless game against the
powerful steam roller shift from Morgantown. In
the annual classic against the University of Virginia,
the team made a glorious come-back, winning by a
handy margin of 12-0 and clearly out-playing their
ancient rivals, whose defeat was the third suffered in
four engagements. Journeying to Maryland to at-
tack the “Old Liners,” they met a tartar, but finally
emerged victorious after a brilliant march the entire
length of the field during the last five minutes of play.
North Carolina State was overcome in the first half
of the annual contest, and barely held during the sec-
ond half. ‘The concluding game against the Univer-
sity of Florida was again lost—but not to the superior
team of last year.

The year’s play was characterized by the able coach-
ing of Jimmy DeHart, which made star players out
of every member of the team. Henry Wilson, heart
of the team in action, was outstanding because of his
fighting spirit. ‘The play of “Mike” Palmer was the
most spectacular. His run of sixty yards from re-
ceipt of punt to a touchdown against Virginia was
listed among the famous plays of the year. The line
plunging and punting of Ty Rauber, Captain-elect,
was consistently better than his stellar performance
of last year. The entire line functioned as a star
unit, with Kay Thomas, Maynard Holt and Tex
Tilson, the most luminous. ‘The development of John
Dawson at guard was the outstanding “find.”

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PRESS COMMENT

KENTUCKY GAME
“The speed of the antelope, the power of the ele-
phant, and the cunning of the fox characterized the
Washington and Lee Generals’ defeat of the Ken-
tucky Wildcats here today.”—Loutsville Courier-
Journal.
PRINCETON GAME
“Princeton pushed to limit to beat Washington and
Lee.” “Generals surprise Tigers.’’ ‘Generals make
‘em step.”—Philadelphia Public Ledger.
“For the first few minutes of the half the score
should have read, ‘W. & L., 0—Wind, 2.’” “The of-
 ficials spared us just the price of a fumble which
Rauber recovered for 60 yards and a_ touchdown.”
“The second half didn’t go much better, although the
breaks were lopsidedly in Princeton’s favor. Our
line was so generally outplayed that our backs did not
have a chance.”—Princeton Alumni Bulletin.

Not So Goop!

Under the head of “Outsmarting Dixie,” the fol-
lowing Sports comment was published in the New
Orleans Times Picayune :

“Southern universities that allow themselves to be
brought into hard games with the powerful Northern
and Eastern elevens early in the season not only are
doing themselves injustice, but are injuring football’s
name in the South.

“Take Washington and Lee Saturday, for instance.
The Generals, who probably will have a pretty good
team on the field inside of two more weeks, were
shown up by Pittsburgh and beaten Saturday 28
to 0. |

“Now, if Washington and Lee, with a reasonable
amount of training, goes along and wallops several
big Southern elevens, the entire collegiate South is
belittled because an ambitious football manager or a
publicity-seeking athletic director took on a game
which put the Generals at such a big disadvantage.

“Don’t you think it a bit unfair to schedule, sim-
ply for the sake of publicity, a game in which a well
trained football team meets an eleven which has been
hastily thrown together? Don’t you think it unfair
to call such a game a contest between representatives
of two sections?

“Pittsburgh started training in August at a special
camp -in New Jersey. The Panthers had nearly four
weeks’ training on Washington and Lee. And any
football coach can tell the difference between two
weeks’ training and six weeks. Especially when the
six weeks’ work was done in cool weather and. the
two weeks’ work in hot weather.

“Too many Southern universities are allowing
themselves to be outgeneralled by the Northern and
Eastern football managers. Better not to schedule
the intersectional games if the others do not want to
give Dixie elevens an even break.”

PLAY OF GENERALS’ QUARTER GETS
PLACE AMONG YEAR’S BEST

In the American Boy Magazine, which went on sale _
at the news stands on October 25th, appeared the fol- —
lowing paragraph in an article written on football —
plays of exceptional merit from the 1924 season by

H. G. Salsinger. This account of Henry Wilson’s ‘y
daring feat in the Washington and Lee-Kentucky

game last year was included with such stories as those
about “Red’’ Grange, of Illinois, Eddie Pooley of ~
Dartmouth, Wakefield of Vanderbilt, Stuhldreher of
Notre Dame, and Dixon of California. “
“The most sensational defense play on a forward
pass last year was probably that made by Wilson,
quarter-back of Washington and Lee—a play that en-
abled his team to defeat Kentucky. Near the close of
the game Washington and Lee was leading by a score
of 10 to 7. It was Kentucky’s ball near midfield.
The ball was forward passed to a Kentucky halfback
who had gotten behind the end and started down the
field with the end giving interference. Wilson, play-
ing safety position, had come up fast on the play, and
was the only man between the Kentucky runner and
Kentucky victory. Wilson says that he could not get
by the end who was interfering and he made up his
mind instantly. Leaving his feet, he jumped cleanly
over the interferer. The runner noticed the leap and

cut to one side. Wilson again acted in the fraction —

of a second, coming down on one foot and lunging at
right angles. He caught the Kentuckian by the foot
with his right hand and brought him down. For
lightning thinking and lightning execution this play
stands as an unusual example.”

FOUR GENERALS STAR WITH FLORIDA
PROS

McVay, Potts, PERRY AND HAWKINS COMMAND
HEADLINES As BRILLIANT LAKELAND
SCORERS

Playing with the Lakeland, Florida, Wildcats, four
former Washington and Lee grid stars commanded
the headlines of the papers carrying the story of the
Florida game. Johnny McVay, “Daddy” Potts,
“Duke” Perry and “Red” Hawkins are the former
Generals appearing in the line-up. :

McVay made the outstanding play of the game
when he drove through guard, eluded several tack-
lers, and raced 23 yards before being downed by his
opponent’s secondary defense.

“Duke” Perry played fullback for the Pros. He
scored the first touchdown of the game in the first
half after a 12 yard gain through the line.

“Red” Hawkins and “Daddy” Potts, the latter a
star on the local eleven several years ago, led in the
offensive and defensive play of the Lakeland line.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

Strong Freshman Team Coming Up

With the loss of eight varsity men and Coach
limmy DeHart from this year’s eleven, football fans
are encouraged by the showing made by the Fresh-
man team this year, every member of which will be
eligible for next year’s varsity.

Coached by Eddie Parks Davis, staunch veteran of
Washington and Lee activities—many and varied—
the yearlings met and conquered four strong oOp-
ponents by a decisive margin. In their fifth encounter
against the highly rated Frosh aggregation from V.
P. I., they fought to a scoreless tie, thus completing
the season without being scored upon.

A wealth of backfield material from the Frosh
awaits finishing development at the hand of Coach
“Pat” Hearon next year. Bill Lott, from Mobile,
Alabama, and captain of the team, is the best triple
threat possibility seen on the local gridiron for a
number of years, while P. C. Whitlock, . half-back,
bids fair to become the running mate of the redoubt-
able Mike Palmer. E. J. Imhof and E. H. White also
showed a varsity brand of line plunging.

foo much credit cannot be given to Eddie Davis,
one time Alumni Secretary, for his part in the Gen-
erals’ success during DeHart’s regime. Every year,
his has been the task of working the mass of raw
Freshmen material into shape for the Head Coach to
take up the following year. DeHart relied upon his
judgment implicitly and found in Eddie a counsellor
and a working mate par excellence.

This year’s performance is but a signal recognition
of the productive four years served by Eddie as
Freshman Coach. A Washington and Lee man—
first, last and always—Eddie Davis has been the hub

 

 

Epprk PArKs DAvIs

 

around which much successful athletic and alumni or-
ganization activity has moved, He has become a part
of the fabric of Lexington and Washington and Lee
and is always recognized as the co-operative supporter
of all things progressive and beneficial.

The Freshmen earning their numerals this year
were: W. B. Lott (Captain), P. C. Whitlock, tex
Smith, E. J. Imhof, E. H. White, H. T. Groop, S. H.
Floyd, C. F. Thompson, H. B. Baxter, E. A. Fitz-
patrick, H. D. Ebert, W. J. D. Bell, M. M. Sproul,
W. A. MacDonough, F. L. Spencer, J. E. Taylor, J.
W. Rainer, A. B. Morgan and Tom Brown.

 

 

COSMOPOLITAN GRID TEAM THIS
SEASON

Fourteen states are represented in the football team
of Washington and Lee this year. West Virginia
and ‘Texas have the most men on the team. Capt.
Thomas. Budnick and McVay are from West Vir-
ginia, and Stemmons, Tilson, Palmer and Tips live
in Texas. New York has Spotts and Barclay;
Tennessee, Daves and Holt; Wilson lives in Ken-
tucky; Van Horn in Pennsylvania; Hawkins in
Virginia; Howe in Arkansas; Rauber in Washing-
ton; and Dawson in Maryland. Of the substitutes
Virginia is represented by Milbank and Cooper ;
Kentucky by Eigelbach and McCandless; Florida by
McDonald, Jackson and McLeod; Texas by Fisher
and Miller. Sanders is from Louisiana; Stearnes
from Maryland; Latham from Washington; Streit
trom Alabama; Edgerton from North Carolina ; Dav-
Cnport from West Virginia; and Durham from Ten-

nessee. Rhea Whitley, manager, has his home in

Arkansas.

THE BIG BLUE TEAM’S RECORD
W.&L. Opp.

Games Wom: 4.458 adie is taki 5 5
Points ‘scored © osmwes ikea tie tees 113 104
Passes attempted ...........+..+: 116 102
Passes completed ............+.-- 46 47
Passes intercepted ...........+->- 14 15
Gains on passes, yards .........-- 567 496
Average punts, yards ..........-. 35.11 34.88
Penalties, yards ........6.-++see8- 290 195
Bumbles 3; xine. cei eee Sates 17 31
Fumbles recovered ...........-.. 25 24
First..downs.% ce. i.aatesteek > So aba 79 82

Individual gains from scrimmage:

Rewthe? citi i. cis a nm 548 yards
Paliner.. ..cndotaai int ede 408 yards
Wilsonseity cas Fs... Ses Cie 260 yards

McVay: . 2643554 “ages 56 yards

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MATHIS SAYS MAT PROSPECTS BRIGHTER

Prospects for the boxing and wrestling teams are
beginning to look much brighter with the news that
Walters, matman in the 145-pound class, who was
injured during practice recently, will be able to begin
working out again in the near future. Hopes of the
boxers are also raised by the fact that the heavier
weights will be strengthened by Stearns, Stemmons
and Budnick after the football season is completed.

Walters’ injured elbow, sustained during a prac-
tice workout, will be sufficiently healed to enable him
to begin light workouts in the gym during the next
week, and should be completely well by the time the
team begins its schedule. This greatly - relieves
Coach Mathis, for he is expecting great things of
Walters this season. Last year Walters lost only two
matches out of the seven, in which he participated,
one of these being a very close time decision to his
opponent at the Navy.

BOXING AND WRESTLING SCHEDULES
FOR 1926

BOXING
Jan. 16—V. P. L., here.
Feb. 6—Virginia, here.
Feb. 13—Catholic U., there.
Feb. 20—Army, there.
Feb, 22—Yale, there.

WRESTLING

Jan. 15—Va., there (pending).
Jan. 30—V. P. I. here.

Feb. 6—Navy, there.

Feb. 12—N. C. State, here.
Feb. 20—Army, there.

 

SMITH NAMED QUINTET COACH

Graduate Manager Dick Smith was officially named
varsity basketball coach for the 1926 season by the
athletic council. “Cy” Twombly was appointed Fresh-
man mentor. Capt. Dick has had the team under his
direction for the past few days awaiting the final de-
cision of the ruling body.

Coach Smith had charge of all athletics, including
basketball, while at Fishburne Military School, and
with plenty of veteran material, hopes to place a cred-
itable quintet on the floor this year.

“Babe” Spotts, captain of the yearling quint of last
year, seems to have the edge on the center position
over Nance and Little, although either of the other
two aspirants may be seen in action.

“Rudy” Lane and Herndon, veteran forwards of
last year, have the call so far on the forward berths,
their work being of the highest order in the practice
sessions thus far. Shupp, McCandless, Howe and

- running guards that Washington and Lee has e

  
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
   
 
  
    
   
   
  
 
  

Smith are pushing these two expert cagers anda
no doubt see service. Zz

Defensive players outnumber the other membere
the squad, there being nine candidates for the
positions.

5 |

Captain Wilson, one of the most bri]

boasted, is of course playing up to his usual stand:
and with Van Horn from last year’s team this
will be hard to displace for the first team ber
Ginsberg, Urmey, Simmons, Wice, Gibson, Dor
and Rucker complete the roster of guards from wi

the coach will have to pick his reserves.

 

BASKETBALL SCHEDULE 1925-1¢ 6
December 18—Maryland at College Park, Md. 3
19—Catholic University at Washingt

Lik 4

January 8—-Bridegwater College, Lexington, _
14—Maryland, Lexington. %
15—Georgia, Lexington.
18—Lynchburg College, Lexington.
23—V. P. I., Lexington.
30—University of Richmond, Lexing

February 5—Kentucky at Lexington, Kentuck ‘3

6—Marshall College at Huntington, V

Va. _
&8—West Virginia at Charleston, We

Va. |
11—University of North Carolina, her
13—V. P. L., at Blacksburg, Va.
18—Carson-Newman, Lexington.
20—Virginia, Lexington. s
26-27—Southern Conference ‘Tourname

at Atlanta, Georgia. 5

 

HARRIERS END SEASON WITH S. I. C.
MEET a

Washington and Lee’s Harriers concluded their fi
campaign at Blacksburg, Virginia, where they e
peted in the Southern conference cross country
under the auspices of V. P. I. ‘The Generals
only able to place fourth. ae
Virginia Tech retained her title as Southern cc
ference cross country champions, although tied —
Georgia Tech in the final score, 53-53. According
a conference ruling the title cannot be taken aw
from the holder on a tie score and, furthermot
Tech’s sixth and seventh men finished before those |
Georgia Tech. 4
Roberts of Georgia Tech captured first place wit
the time of 29 minutes, 11 and 4/5 seconds. Wast
ington and Lee’s first man to pass the judges’ stan
was Gordon, who placed ninth. Bs
The teams’ scoring was as follows: a
Va. Tech, 53; Georgia Tech, 53; Virgie 735
and L., 84; V. M. I., 155.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

FIRST ANNUAL HOME-COMING DAY A
HUGE SUCCESS

Marred by a steady drizzling rain, Home-Coming
Day for Alumni, November 7th, proved to be well
worth while if the many expressions which came to
the Alumni Office are to be relied upon.

The Alumni meeting held at the Washington and
Lee Library, was attended by approximately two hun-
dred Alumni. After the regular business meeting,
presided over by Judge E. C. Caffrey, ’09, President
Henry Louis Smith delivered an eloquent address of
welcome. Dr. George H. Denny, now president of
the University of Alabama, was the speaker of the
day. His address is reported elsewhere in this issue.
A luncheon was served to all Alumni and their fam-
ilies at the Washington and Lee Dining Hall, upon
adjournment of the meeting.

Wading to Wilson field in a quagmire of mud, over
one thousand Alumni from far and near found oc-
casion to exchange greetings and make predictions
on the outcome of the game. The most optimistic
were not disappointed.

Soon after the referee’s whistle announced that the
fourth annual classic was on, the Generals began to
show superiority, hammering away by a succession of
line plunges and short end runs interspersed with
exchanges of punts, for a touch-down-during the first
half. Sufficient fright was caused in the hearts of
the Generals’ adherents when Captain Carter Diffey
of the Cavaliers opened the third quarter with a bril-
liant drive toward the Blue and White goal line. . Re-
lief came when Maynard Holt burst through the Vir-
ginia line and threw the courageous Diffey for a
twelve yard loss. As a climax to the entire day, Mike
Palmer, diminutive half-back, received a punt on his
own sixty-yard line and slipped through the entire
Virginia team, running in glue-like mud, for a touch
down. Famous old stars of other years moaned in
the agony of making every step with the fleeting run-
ner, then joined in the mighty roar of frenzied ap-
plause. It was a perfect day—despite the rain.

 

JUDGE CHARLES J. McDERMOTT
HONORED

Recently Judge Charles J. McDermott, enthusiastic
and able Trustee of Washington and Lee, was made
a Trustee of the College of the City of New York.
He says, however, that Washington and Lee is his
college and that service on other Boards can never
detract from his loyalty.

Judge McDermott, who has an extensive law prac-
tice in New York City, where he has offices at 165
Broadway, will address the Law School in ‘Tucker
Hall on January 18th. He will be in Lexington at
that time to attend the annual meeting of the Board,
Founders Day, January 19th. At the invitation of
Dean Moreland he consented to come a day early and
address the Law students.

DR. GEORGE H. DENNY SPOKE TO WASH-
INGTON AND LEE ALUMNI

Dr. George H. Denny, president of Washington ani
Lee University from 1902 to 1912 and now president
of the University of Alabama, addressed the Wash-
ington and Lee alumni at the annual meeting of the
association in Carnegie Library Saturday morning,
November 7th. A representative crowd of alumni
were present to hear an admirable address, the sub-
ject of which was the relation between an alumnus
and his school.

Dr. Denny opened his remarks by expressing the
pleasure in returning to Washington and Lee and in
speaking to so many of his old friends. He recalled
how many familiar faces on the campus, however,
were missing, and asked all to rise in a tribute to the
“vice-president” of the University and only woman
member of the Alumni, Incorporated, Miss Annie R.
White.

The speaker emphasized the wonderful gifts which
God had given this institution, scenery, climate, and
above all, memories. “Take away from many a col-
lege its endowment,” he said, “and what is left? But
strip the Washington and Lee campus of every build-
ing and every dollar, and there are left things more
precious than silver and gold.” He mentioned as-
similation and acquisition as the two chief methods
of learning, saying, “I had rather have my boy edu-
cated in the simplicity of these memories than at Duke
or Pittsburgh, with their millions.”

Dr. Denny classed many alumni as “football
alumni” who followed a winning team, alumni who
were always expecting favors from their Alma Ma-
ter, but the alumni that the school needs are those who
recognize a fixed responsibility to furnish the oil
while trustees and faculty trim the lamps, to support
it when flourishing and when not flourishing. ‘They
must recognize a debt of life long gratitude for what
their Alma Mater did for them in their youth.

Dr. Denny related many amusing anecdotes in his
speech which was stirring and_ enthusiastically _ re-
ceived.

Before the speaker was introduced, a meeting of the
Alumni, Incorporated, was held, presided over by the
president, Judge E. C. Caffrey of Newark, New Jer-
sey. Secretary Verbon E. Kemp made his report and
was congratulated on the exceptional publication, THE
ALUMNI MAGAZINE, which he has been editing. C.
5. Glasgow and E. L. Graham were re-elected resi-
dent alumni members of the athletic council. E. C.
Caffrey and P. C. Buford of Roanoke were re-elected
on the alumni board of trustees. President Henry
Louis Smith outlined the progress of the University
during the past five years.

Following the meeting, luncheon was served to

Alumni and their families in the dining hall—From
Rockbridge County News. |

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

New York Alumni Organize Live Wire Association

The New York Alumni Association, organized Oc-
tober 16th, (see November issue ALUMNI MAGAZINE)
is proving to be one of the most successful Chapters
now operating.

With a large number of Alumni living in New
York City and vicinity, and inspired by the unflagging
zeal of D. R. Snively, ’23, E. B. Vinson, ’21, and
James A. Lee, ’17, the Manhattan Association has
started off with a boom.

To begin with, the organization Dinner, held at
the Lafayette Hotel on October 16th was perfect.
Sixty-five Alumni were present. Walter L. McCor-
kle, '77, presided with an easy grace that insured the
greatest conviviality. The program was well bal-
anced. Honorable John W. Davis, ’92, made an in-
spiring address. Henry Gaines Hawn, ’83, gave an
eloquent admixture of philosophy and humor. F. T.
Reeves, 03, of Waterbury, Connecticut, Judge Dal-
las Flannagan, ’88, and Judge FE. C. Caffrey, ‘OY,
both of Newark, New Jersey, made pointed and in-
teresting talks. Rev. W. M. Hanzsche, ‘11, of Tren-
ton, New Jersey, delighted the members with a peppy,
extemporaneous speech full of wit and humor. Prof.
Lewis Tyree, °15, and Alumni Secretary, Verbon E.
Kemp, concluded the program with short speeches on
present conditions on the campus.

The officers elected at this meeting were Dr. Wil-
liam E. Dold, ’72, President; W. Davis Conrad, ’03.
Vice-President, and D. R. Snively, ’23, Secretary-
Treasurer. It was- decided to hold regular monthly
luncheons the first Wednesday of each month between
12 and 2 o'clock P. M., alternating between Stew-
art’s Rathskellar, downtown, one month, and _ the
Inter-Fraternity Club, uptown, the following month.

“Toad” Snively and his reception committee was
much in evidence at the organization dinner. ‘Their
effective work made it possible for all of the Alumni
to become acquainted. ‘Those registering at that time
were: Thornton W. Allen, Rayford W. Allen,
George W. Allison, Jr., George H. Barber, EK. W.
Bibb, Paul Bock, Michael Brown, Jr., W. R. Burton,
Judge Edwin C. Caffrey, Stuart Chevalier, Francis
P. Cole, W. Davis Conrad, Honorable John W. Da-
vis, Henry W. Dew, W. B. Dew, Dr. William EF.
Dold, John W. Drye, Jr., John P. East, William M.
Farrar, Dallas Flannagan, Edwin S. Frost, John M.
Glenn, Claiborne W. Godwin, R. H. Gardner, J. 5.
Gravely, John K. Graves, E. D. Greiner, J. B. Grei-
ner, Donald G. Grimley, Roy J. Grimley, Rev. Wil-
liam ‘T. Hanzsche, Henry G. Hawn, H. R. Hawthorne,
Lindsay Henry, David H. Hill, Rear Admiral R. C.
Hollyday, William A. Hyman, Benjamin A. Judd,
Verbon Kemp, Dr. George Bolling Lee, Edward W.
Lee, J. A. Lee, Reuben A. Lewis, Jr., Charles ai

Lile, H. H. McCorkle, Walter L. McCorkle, Henry
C. McGavack, W. C. McKnight, Charles W. Me-
Nitt, Nicholas Mandak, Mark R. Miles, Dr. Francis
T. Miller, Harry E. Moran, George S. Mueller, C. §.
Osbourn, E. W. Poindexter, J. L. Powell, E. A,
Quarles, Francis T. Reeves, Milton B. Rogers, Clar-
ence L. Sager, M. S. Sanders, Al St. John, William
L,. Sandridge, Jr., Robert H. Sellers, D. R. Snively,
Vines E. Turnbull, Lewis Tyree, EK. B. Vinson, Mor-
ris G. Welch and L. C. Zaiss.

MONTHLY LUNCHEONS OF NEW YORK
ALUMNI

The following notice relative to the first monthly
luncheon of the New York Alumni Association was
received at the Alumni Office:

WASHINGTON AND LEE MOoNTHLY LUNCHEONS

“Date: First- Wednesday of each month.

“Hour: Any time between twelve and two
o'clock.

“Place: Odd months at Stewart's Raths-
kelilar, 30 Park Place, and even
months at the Fraternity Club
(Madison Ave. & 39th St.)

“Price: A la carte, or a_ special luncheon

at S5c.!

“We can make these Washington and Lee Lunch-
eons permanent affairs if you will join us. Whether
you are uptown or downtown, whether you lunch at
12, 12:30, 1:00 or 1:30, or whether you like just a
sandwich or a full meal—all this makes little differ-
ence.

“You can't afford to go without your lunch, and

“You can’t afford to miss these monthly reunions.
We're counting on you, November 4, at Stewart's
Rathskellar, 30 Park Place.

‘The Committee.”

The luncheon was attended by the following
Alumni:

P. L. Bock, ’21; John Drye, ’20; Wm. Mcknight,
‘23; James A. Lee, '17; George S. Mueller, ’21; Mor-
ris G. Welch, °17; E. W. Lee, 12; M. S. Sanders,
17: Wm. R. Burton, 14; E. A. Quarles; R. H. Sel-
lers, 78; D. R. Snively, ’23; E. B. Vinson, 721;
Thornton W. Allen, ’12; Earl W. Bibb, ’24; U. E.
Craig, ’24; Hugh R. Hawthorne, °10; Emmett W.
Poindexter, ’23; M. B. Rogers, 15; Al Miller; Nor-
ris Kirk, ’25, and Clarence L. Sager, ‘15.

Its success and that of the December Luncheon
was due to the efforts of J. A. Lee, °17, Edgerton
Vinson, ‘21, and Thornton W. Allen, *12, committee
in charge. They have cordially invited out of town

 

a
2

"
,

;
a

i ec Mit tall tlle

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Dr. William E. Dold, ’72, President New York Alumni Chapter

At the organization dinner of the New York
Alumni Association on October 16th, Dr. William E.
Dold, ’72, Senior alumnus, formerly of Lexington,
was chosen president. They could not have chosen a
more ardent Southerner, a finer gentleman of the old
school, nor a more willing worker than Dr. Dold.

A former attendant at the University of Virginia,
the University of New York and the University of
Vienna, Dr. Dold has many academic interests. Also,
in the practice of his branch of the medical profes-
sion he has had many responsibilities. In 1901 he be-
came Medical Superintendent of River Crest Sana-
tarium, New York City, of which he is now the owner.
His activities, as the following will show, have been
varied and many:

 

“Other activities—Medical Director Confederate
Veteran Camp of New York; President for four
years University of Virginia Alumni Association ot
New York; Vice-Governor of the Virginians; Pres-
ident of University of Virginia Medical Society in
New York; President of the Hereditary Military So-

 

 

pei Sak
MMe P ly at Cladhuseajon boll
et cna he ae

 

 

 

Alumni visiting New York to make a point of attend-
ing the luncheons.

Those attending the uptown meeting, Wednesday,
December 2, were:

Morris C. Welch, 17; Geo. S. Mueller, ’19; Don-
ald G. Grimley, ’23; D. Newton Farnell, Jr., ’23; E.
3. Vinson, ’23; D. R. Snively, 23; W. R. Benton;

 

Dr. W. E. Down, °72

 

 

ciety of the War of 1812; Sons of American Revolu-
tion; Fellow of New York Academy of Medicine,
Fellow of the American Psychiatric Association,
Fellow of New York Neurological Society; Advisory
Soard Southern Women’s Educational Alliance.”

A typical example of Dr. Dold’s present interests
was shown recently, when finding an old photograph
of General Lee and his Faculty (under whom he stud-
ied), he had copies printed and sent them to many
of his Southern friends. The photograph is repro-
duced herewith.

Another incident, connected with the Washington
and Lee Endowment Campaign of 1920, is typical of
Dr. Dold. ‘The solicitor for the Endowment Fund,
a Washington and Lee alumnus, had just received
his subscription. Upon taking leave, Dr. Dold asked:
‘Now what are your initials, Mr. ——?” “But,” the
solicitor protested, “the checks“are not to be made out
to me.” “I know,” the courtly Dr. Dold _ replied,
‘but I only wanted to write your name in my diary
in memory of our pleasant hour together today!”

 

Wm. C. McKnight, ’21; Earl W. Bebb, ’24; Paul L.
Bock, ’21; John Drye, Jr., "19; Thornton W. Allen,
"12; EK. W. Lee, °17; Edgar Solomonsky, ’11; Verbon
Ii. Kemp, 719; C. W. MeNitt, ’18; E. W. Poindexter,
‘21; Randolph E. Tryrel, °19; Leonard F. Brown,
‘19; Hugh R. Hawthorne, 10; Wm. Elliott Dold,
M.D., ’72.

14

PILGRIMAGE OF RAILROAD MAGNATES
TO THE TOMB OF LEE

Every year the Southern Railway System, under
the patronage and direction of its president, Fairfax
Harrison, carries a special train-load of its own di-
rectors, officers, and executive heads, with a group
of presidents and directors of other leading railroads,
throughout certain sections of the South that they
may become more thoroughly acquainted with the
needs, the opportunities, and the possibilities of South-
ern development, and thus enlist the Southern Rail-
way Systems in the great task of more efficient south-
ern and national development.

It was decided by Mr. Harrison and his advisers
to bring the whole party to historic Lexington to visit
the tombs of Lee and Jackson and to become better
acquainted with the life work of these two southern
leaders, especially of General Lee in his marvelous
reorganization and rebuilding of General Washing-
ton’s ancient college.

The presidents of the two institutions, V. M. I.
and W. & L., were invited to take lunch with the dis-
tinguished guests at the Dutch Inn at one o'clock,
after which the whole party repaired to the Lee mau-
soleum.

Mr. Harrison at the Lee Chapel formally requested
Dr. Smith to give this gathering of business leaders
some idea of the work of General Lee as an educa-
tional administrator, a national peacemaker between
North and South, and a rebuilder of the shattered
Union after the close of the Civil War. After this
address, which was listened to with profound atten-
tion, the party examined in detail the historic paint-
ings, the recumbent statue, the Lee office, and the Lee
mausoleum.

Mr. Harrison, in the name of the Board of Direc-
tors of the Southern Railway and in the presence of
the whole company, laid on the Lee tomb a magnifi-
cent floral tribute of evergreens to bear testimony to
the respect and admiration of the railway men of the
South and constitute a fitting climax to their pilgrim-
age.

The party then adjourned to visit the statue of
Stonewall Jackson at the Virginia Military Institute
before returning to their cars which left at three
o'clock for the special train at Staunton.

November 2, 1925.

 

The Alumni Directory will be completed within the
next two months. Copies should be reserved by ad-
vance payment of $3.50 to the Alumni Secretary,
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia.

John P. Walker, 95, of Boise, Idaho, is the United
States District Cadastral Engineer for Idaho and
Washington.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“ALABAMA SWING” APPEARS DOOMED! —

The above headline appeared in a column of the —
write-up contains a just tribute to the popularity of a

Birmingham Age Herald recently.

*

the “Swing” and a proper acknowledgment of its —

ownership by Washington and Lee:

“University Ala., Nov. 24—If a movement now —

under way at the University of Alabama is success- _

ful, the ‘Alabama Swing,’ famous war-song of the —

Capstone, is doomed to oblivion except in the hearts

of some of the Old Guard, who can never forget its

stirring measures.

     
  

~~

ae -

“The so-called ‘Alabama Swing’ is really the ‘Wash- 4

ington and Lee Swing’ with the title and a few

words changed, and has been used at the university

ior more than a decade. Since the phenomenal growth —

of the university in recent years, students have risen

up perenially declaring that Alabama needs a distinc-

tive song all her own, preferably with both words and

music written by a "Bama man, but so far no genius

of lyrical bent has supplied the demand. 7
‘Realizing the need for such a song, the ‘Rammer-

Jammer,’ humorous and literary magazine of the

words and music to such a song, open to all students,
members of the faculty and alumni of the institution.

The ‘Crimson-White,’ student newspaper at the uni-

versity, is vigorously co-operating in this movement.
“It will be hard for the students to part with the

old ‘’Bama Swing’ if a new song is written, for, in —

addition to-its sentimental claims, it is perhaps the

livest, snappiest, most collegiate piece of music ever _

written. As dance music, it has swept the country
and will probably remain popular for many years.”

WASHINGTON, D. C.

Under the direction of Elwood H. Seal, ’14, the
Washington, D. C., Alumni Association met at the
University Club in that city on Wednesday, Novem-

ber 4th, to consider attending the W. & L.-Virginia 4

football game, in Lexington, on November 7th, in a
body. A representative group of Washington Alumni
attended the meeting. |

The District of Columbia Alumni Association cat
now be augmented by the membership of B. F. Gan-

away, 1131 Fourth Street, N. E., Marvin F. Hum-—

mer, 1010 Mass. Ave., N. E., and Harry A. Dawson,
Rockville, Maryland, graduates in the class of 1925,
who have expressed an enthusiastic interest in
Alumni activity.

Dr. James Vance, 96, is leading surgeon in the
City of El Paso, Texas.

university, in conjunction with Mr. Hugo Friedman, 3
Prof. Carl L. Carmer, and Champ Pickens, athletic
publicity director, has offered a prize of $50 for the

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Princeton President Will Speak in Lexington on’ Founders’ Day

President John Grier Hibben, of Princeton Uni-
versity, will be the principal speaker here on Found-
ers’ Day, January 19th. Dr. Hibben succeeded the
late Woodrow Wilson as president of Princeton in
1912, having served until then as professor of Logic
at the University.

He is a Princeton graduate, and also studied at the
University of Berlin, and the Princeton Theological
Seminary. Dr. Hibben is an Officer of Legion
d’Honneur (France), Grand Officer of the Order of
St. Sava (Servia),. and Commander of the Order of
the Crown (Belgium). During his life he has writ-
ten several books on logic and philosophy.

Dr. Hibben comes to the “Princeton of the South”
upon the joint invitation of Judge Charles J. Me-
Mermott, Trustee, and President Henry Louis Smith.
It will be his first official visit to the Washington and
Lee campus. While his subject has not been an-
nounced, he is assured of an interested and appreci-
ative audience for his address in the Lee Chapel on
Founders’ Day, which also celebrates the birth of
General Robert E. Lee.

It is recalled that Washington and Lee was some-
what modelled after Princeton University, several of
the early founders coming to Washington and Lee
from Princeton. It is particularly appropriate, there-
fore, that Dr. Hibben is to make the annual address

this year.

 

Joun Grier Hipsen, Ph.D., LL.D.

President Princeton University

 

 

Skeleton of “Traveller” Object of Interest

Lexington, Va.—An object of peculiar interest to
visitors at the Washington and Lee University mu-
seum is the skeleton of ‘Traveller,’ famous war
horse of General Robert E. Lee.

Few know that the skeleton is preserved here.
General Lee bought “Traveller” shortly after the
start of the war in the western part of Virginia, now
West Virginia, and used him throughout the war.

When General Lee came across the mountains in
1865 to become president of Washington College it
was again “Traveller” he rode. Even in death
; lraveller’” was not missing, for he was led in the
tuneral procession of General Lee in 1870. When
the horse died it was buried in Lexington.

In 1907, the idea of having the skeleton mounted
was advanced, and Joseph Bryan, of Richmond, do-
pated the funds to make it possible. Since then,

lraveller” has occupied a prominent place in the
Washington and Lee museum.

eee

ss lraveller’ was a mighty proud horse,” says C.

Chittum, 77-year-old Lexington resident. “I've

seen him many a time coming up the street, and he
wouldn't look to right or left. He looked like just
the horse for General Lee.”

For an artist who wanted to paint a picture of
“Traveller,” General Lee described him:

“Tf I were an artist, like you, I would draw a pic-
ture of ‘Traveller,’ representing his fine, muscular
proportions, muscular figure, deep chest, and short
back, strong haunches, flat legs, small head, broad
forehead, delicate ears, quick eye, small feet, and
black mane and tail. Such a picture would inspire a
poet, whose genius could then depict his worth and
describe his endurance of toil, hunger, thirst, heat and
cold, and the dangers and sufferings through which
he passed. He could dilate upon his sagacity and af-
fection and his invariable response to every wish of
his rider. He might even imagine his thoughts
through the long night marches and days of battle
through which he passed. But | am no artist; I can
only say he is a Confederate gray.”

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Charleston, West Virginia, Alumni

_ While the Alumni of Charleston have not yet or-
ganized an active association, they are always pre-
pared to carry on the work of an active association
at the annual Washington and Lee football game.

This year, under the direction of W. D. Payne, 90,
a cordial letter inviting the student body to attend
the game was written and a check enclosed for defray-
ing the expense of the student band to Charleston.
With inclement weather forecast for the game, an ac-
tive reception committee was nevertheless on hand.
It functioned most effectively under the direction of
Brown Truslow, ’09, Joe Silverstein, 20, and H. A.
Hall, ’23. :

Those registering at Alumni headquarters in the
Hotel Holley, Charleston, were: R. A. Smith, ’13,
Lexington, Va.; W. H. Bachrach, ’28, Cincinnati,
Ohio; Joe W. Dingess, 21, Huntington, West Va.;
Otis W. Howe, ’24, Helena, Ark.; F. R. McKnight,
23, Helena, Ark.; Robert W. Moore, ’25, Ports,
Ohio; R. F. Howard, ’21, Welch; West Va.; F. C.

Henritze, °20, Welch, West Va.; M. S. Grant,
Richmond, Va.; W. Feamster, °19, Greenbrier
C., West Va.; “Brick” Spinner, °24, Greenbrier

C., West Va.; J. Shirley Riley, 16, Roanoke, Va.;
Richard D. Holmes, ’21, Helena, Ark.; J. F. Moore,
‘17, Huntington, West Va.; R. D. Mahen, Jr., ’22,
Blackstone, Va.; L. Y. Thompson, ’21, Lexington,

a.; F. H. Campbell, 87, Lewisburg, West Va.; W.
T. Lovins, 14, Huntington, West Va.; H. N. Moses,
Cincinnati, Ohio; S. S. McNeer, °16, Huntington,
West Va.; Joe Hobson, ’20, Prestonsburg, Ky.; J.
N. Harman, Jr., ’11, Welch, West Va.; John C.
Hoover, ’22, Webster Springs, West Va.; M. J.
Dunn, Jr., ’23, Huntington, West Va.; Kenneth E.
Hines, ’22, ’24, Sutton, West Va.; H. W, Clendening,
08, Logan, West Va.; T. S. Jones, ’20, Huntington,
West Va.; Cy Young, °17, Helena, Ark.; Grover C.
Worrell, 10, Mullens, West: Va.; Lafe Chafin, ’17,
Williamson, West Va.; E. P. Davis, *15, Lexington,
Va.; R. G. Campbell, °10, Lexington, Va.; E. A.
Hansbarger, ’20, Williamson, West Va.; H. L. Hend-
ley, 06, Lewisburg, West Va.; D. V. Lemon, ’03,
New Martinsville, West Va.; Carl Hinton, ’09, Hin-
ton, West Va.;.C. S. McNulty, ‘02, Roanoke, Va.;
Geo. W. Long, 92, Southard, West Va.; Dayton E.
Carter, ‘22, Huntington, West Va.; E. M. Cameron,
'24, Lewisburg, West Va.; P. R. Whiting, 23, Logan,
West Va.; H. A. Haw, Fayetteville, West Va.; J. W.
Rader, 10, ‘Lewisburg, West Va.; E. H. Long, ’21,
Huntington, West Va.; James E. Moore, °17, Hunt-
ington, West Va.; V. B. Watts, °’24, Huntington,
West Va.; K. A. Ciiede. 25, Richmond, Va.; C. R.
Hill, °17, Oak Hill, West Va.; E. P. Nidetiea 21,
Summerville, West Va.; FE, B. Roeser, ’06, Mont-

gomery, West Va.; J. C. Henderson, '22, Montgom- &
ery, West Va.; and Verbon E. Kemp, °19, Lexington,
Va.; and the following from Charleston, West Va.; a
R. H. Martin, 80; Joe L. Silverstein, ‘22; Roy C. :
Slack, ’25; Carl K. Gilchrist, ’20; John W. Long, ’21;
L. H. Barrow, ’21, Sam Silverstein, 17; Wirt W.
Donally, ’25; W. D. Lewis, ’71; J. C. Morrison, Jr.,
‘25; L. F. Hamoch; Jas. Lewis Lowman, and W. B.
Watts, 718.

J. B. CROWLEY, LIBERAL CHARLES.
TONIAN, DIES

Few alumni know J. B. Crowley. Yet, since Wasih-
ington and Lee resumed athletic relations with the
University of West Virginia, he has been the liberal
host with his partner, Mr. Prentice Ashton, of the
Generals’ football squad at Charleston in the Hotel
Holley, of which he was part owner. ‘The entire
team, coaches and managers, were quartered and fed
at the Holley without charge. |

News of Mr. Crowley’s death from pneumonia, at
his home in Charleston, on December 14th, was a dis-
tinct shock to the many Washington and Lee friends
that he had made. Among the survivors of Mr:
Crowley is John C. App, ’04, a nephew.

Both the Alumni and the Athletic Association join
hands in thus expressing due appreciation to Mr.
Crowley’s associates, and in voicing deep sympathy
and regret at his passing.

 

NEW HOTEL PLANNED FOR LEXINGTON

The long felt need for adequate hotel facilities in
Lexington will soon be relieved if the plans of the
Kobert E. Lee Hotel, Incorporated, materialize. ‘This
new corporation, headed by Thomas Gresham, of
Richmond, owner of the Richmond and William
Byrd Hotels in the Virginia Capital, has purchased
the old Lexington Hotel on Main Street.

According to present plans, the old Lexington Ho-
tel will be torn down at an early date and the erection
of a modern, new six story hotel, The Robert E. Lee,
begun. The present plan calls for seventy-two rooms
and fifty-two baths. The first floor will contain the
lobby, four stores and a billiard parlor. It is to be
modeled after the new William Byrd Hotel of Rich-
mond.

 

The ALUMNI MaGaziNe is dependent upon alumni
subscriptions for its existence. It is published five
times per year. Subscription $2.00 for one year or
$3.50 for two years. Send check or money order to
the Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

John W. Davis Heads New York Alumni Finance Committee

In an inspiring address at the annual dinner of the
New York Alumni Association, John W. Davis, "92,
said, in effect—“I am not ambitious to see Washing-
ton and Lee attain the tremendous growth of Colum-
bia, Harvard or Yale; nor amass their large endow-
ments. I do want to see Washington and Lee main-
tain a faculty equal to, or surpassing, the best in the
country. ‘To do that a faculty berth at Washington
and Lee must be made adequately remunerative.”

At a Special Committee luncheon shortly after-
wards, Mr. Davis accepted the chairmanship of the
New York Alumni Finance Committee purposing to
effect means of financial relief for the University.
Those serving with Mr. Davis on the Committee at
large were Dr. George Bolling Lee, "93, Dr. William
E. Dold, ’72, Walter L. McCorkle, ’77, W. Davis
Conrad, ’03, Stuart Chevalier, 03, Judge KE. C. Caf-
frey, 09, H. R. Hawthorne, 10, John M. Glenn, 79,
John P. East, ’96, Robert R. Kane, *17, D. R.
Snively, ‘23, and Judge Charles J. McDermott, Trus-
tee.

The actual work of the Committee began early in
December with President Henry Louis Smith and
Alumni Secretary Verbon E. Kemp in New York
to assist. Checks for $5,000.00 each were received
from Thomas F. Ryan, prominent New York finan-
cier, and C. C. Dula, President of Ligget & Myers
Tobacco Company. Mr. Norman Dodge, Vice-Prest-

 

Joun W. Davis, *92

 

 

dent of the Mergenthaler Linotype Company, pledged
Linotype equipment for the School of Journalism
with an approximate value of $10,000.

With these encouraging results, the Committee has
plans to continue its effective work. With several
fine openings made through interviews by President
Smith with leading New York financiers, larger
gifts and bequests are pending. With Mr. Davis in
charge, it is felt that his ambition to make Washing-
ton and Lee professorship sufficiently remunerative
will be realized.

 

 

INVESTMENT OPPORTUNITIES

Note: Tue ALUMNI MAGAzINE will publish in
each succeeding issue a list of three memorial gift
opportunities badly needed at Washington and Lee.
They will be listed according to the amount of prin-
cipal required and the scope of service they can
render.

Let ScHoor OF JOURNALISM READING ROoM

$5,000 to $10,000—Endowment. Income to be used
for furnishing reading room in School of Journalism
Library and stocking its shelves with reference books.

ASTRONOMICAL OBSERVATORY

$25,000 to $35,000—Building and endowment.
Dome to be built for housing expensive _ tel-
escope previously donated to the Physics department.
Proceeds of endowment to be used for mounting tel-
€scope and upkeep of building.

CHAIR oF BIBLE AND RELIGIOUS EDUCATION

$60,000 to $75,000—Endowment. Proceeds to be
used for employing full professor to teach complete
course in Bible and Religious Education, a splendid
memorial investment opportunity.

W. AND L. FACULTY HAS 13 IN WHO’S
WHO

Biographies of One in Every Four of W. and L,.
Faculty Members Make Notable Show in Book

One faculty member in every four at the Univer-
sity has earned a place for himself in Who’s Who.
Thirteen out of fifty are named in its pages.

Who’s Who, listing 25,000 biographies of the most
distinguished men and women of the country, rep-
resents only one out of every 4,800 of the people of
the United States. The biographies of the thirteen
faculty members at Washington and Lee make a not-
able showing for an institution of this size. Those
listed are: President Henry Louis Smith, A.B., A.M.,
Ph.D., LL.D.; Dean Henry Donald Campbell, A.M.,
Ph.D., Se.D.; James Lewis Howe, A.B., Ph.D., M.C.;
Walter Le Conte Stevens, A.B., Ph.D.; Thomas
James Farrar, A.B., A.M., Ph.D.; Livingston Wad-
dell Smith, A.B., A.M., Ph.D.; Robert Granville
Campbell, A.B., A.M., Ph.D.; De La Warr Benjamin
Easter, A.M., Ph.D.; Glover Dunn Hancock, A.B.,
A.M., Ph.D.; Edgar Finley Shannon, A.B., A.M.,
Ph.D.; Robert Henry Tucker, A.B., A.M.; William
Thomas Lyle, C.E.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED, OF WASH-
INGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

President—Judge E. C. Caffrey, ’09, Court of
Common Pleas, Newark, N. J.

Vice-President — Dr. Wm. ‘Taylor Thom, 78,
Pierce Mill Road, Georgetown Station, Washington,
mL.

Secretary—Verbon E. Kemp, °19, Drawer 897,
Lexington, Va.

Treasurer—E. 1. Graham, ’11, Graham & Father,
Lexington, Va.

Trustees—1926, 1,. C. Witten, °10, 1634 Union
Trust Bldg., Cincinnati, Ohio; Life, W. T. Thom, 78,
Pierce Mill Road, Washington, D. C.; 1926, Samuel
Frierson, 02, Attorney, Florence, Alabama; 1927, E.
P. Davis, ’15, The Corner, Inc., Lexington, Va.; 1927,
Dr. William Allan, ’02, Professional Bldg., Charlotte,
N. C.; 1928, E. C. Caffrey, 09, Court of Common
Pleas, Newark, N. J.; 1928, P. C. Buford, 811 Box-
ley Bldg., Roanoke, Va.

Resident Alumni Members Athletic Council—1925-
26, Charles S. Glasgow, ’11, Attorney at Law, Lex-
ington, Va.; 1925-26, E. L. Graham, ’11, Graham &
Father, Lexington, Va.

Non-resident Alumni Members Athletic Council—
1925-26, F. W. McWane, 714, Lynchburg Foundry
Co., Lynchburg, Va.; 1925-26, E. M. Cameron, ’25,
Greenbrier Military Academy, Lewisburg, W. Va.

COMMITTEE CHAIRMEN

Committee on Constitution and By-Laws—Dr. Wil-
liam M. Brown, Chairman, W. & L. U., Lexington,
Va.

Committee on Recommendations to Board of Trus-
tees—Stuart Moore, ’17, Chairman, Lexington, Va.

Employed Officers—Verbon E. Kemp, °17, General
Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.; Miss Dora
Witt, Assistant Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington,
Va.; Miss Mary Barclay, Endowment Secretary,
Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.; Miss E. P. Gadsden,
Directory Clerk, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

O ffice—Third Floor, Newcomb Hall.

STUDENTS VOTE ON WORLD COURT

The vote of the Washington and Lee student body
in the World Court poll, conducted in all colleges
with the assistance of the Y. M. C. A., was 356 for the
World Court entry and 145 against it. About three-
fifths of the students participated in the balloting.
A. T. Roy, ’25, represented Washington and Lee at
the student World Court conference held at Prince-
ton University.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, LEADS STUDENT
ENROLLMENT

Lexington, Virginia, again holds honors in the
number of students enrolled in the University, with
25. Memphis takes her old position that she lost last
year, and is second, having 24 men in school. New
York, Birmingham, and Charleston, which usually
have a great number here, all fell down this year, their
total enrollments being eight, eight, and eleven, re-
spectively. Other cities which are prominent in at-
tendance at Washington and Lee are Mobile, 12;
Louisville, 6; Roanoke, 9; and Chattanooga, 9.

The feature of the year is the hejira from Mobile
that came about this fall. Almost a dozen freshmen
made up their minds to come up here, making this
city come to sudden prominence.

 

POWERFUL TELESCOPE HERE

The recent purchase of a telescope has added much
to the equipment for the study of astronomy accord-
ing to Dr. Wooten, head of this department. The
telescope was ordered July, a year ago, from John E.
Mellish, one of the few makers of this instrument in
the United States, and arrived on September 20th.
Its cost was approximately $264. The telescope is
completely equipped with solar and zenith diagonals,
and with high and low power eye pieces. At the pres-
ent time it is to be found on the top of Reid Hall.

NEW CAVE SUBJECT OF INTEREST
TO MANY

Exploration of the cave recently discovered one
mile west of Lexington is still progressing and every
day new objects of geological interest are uncovered.

The cavern entrance is located in an old rock quarry
about 100 yards from the Lee Highway. Eight rooms
have been opened so far and there are numerous pas-
sages which have not as yet been explored. The
largest room found is seventy-six feet long by forty-
four feet wide. ‘The rooms are about twelve feet
high with many strange and picturesque formations
extending from the ceiling and walls. Among other
objects of interest is a lake which connects two of
the largest rooms.

A group of business men from Roanoke have been
through the cave and have tried to interest Mr. Sho-
walter, owner of the property, in the formation of a
company to develop the cave, but as yet no deal has
been made.

NATURAL BRIDGE SOLD

Capitalists of Richmond, Virginia, recently pur-
chased the famous Natural Bridge, with its surround-
ing properties for $500,000 from Mrs. James A.
Mundy, former owner.

 

’
/

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

Following General Lee’s Example

(By Henry Louis Smith)

‘he fierce complexity of American business life,
the multiplicity of professions demanding special ac-
ademic training, the steady lengthening of the pro-
fessional training required in law, medicine, engineer-
ing, etc., and the fact that almost every student finish-
ing his four-year undergraduate course must begin at
once to “make a living” are necessitating the recast-
ing of the ancient and traditional belief that the four-
year undergraduate college course should be devoted
entirely to abstract intellectual training with’ no voca-
tional impulse, no reference to future money-making,
and no specialization toward any distinct future life-
work.

One of the most remarkable evidences of General
|_ee’s mixture of surpassing genius and practical wis-
dom was the fact that he added to the ancient ab-
stract academic undergraduate training four lines of
preparation for future vocations.

Considering the pressure and urgency of modern
professional and industrial civilization, I have come
to these conclusions:

First: That for college matriculates to spend their
four undergraduate years in all-round exclusively in-
tellectual training without deciding on the trend of
their future life-work is to leave unutilized the most
valuable opportunities of effective training open to
them during their college education.

Second: For a young college graduate of twenty-
two years of age, fully mature in body and mind, to
be compelled at that age to decide on his life-work
while looking for his first job is a personal misfor-
tune and in many cases a personal tragedy, since the
hrst good job in his reach will in all probability be
accepted and will thus probably chain him to a life-
work which he neither prepared for nor deliberately
selected.

Third: When two men of equal ambition and abil-
ity study such an undergraduate course as biology,
italian, or advanced math, one of them making an A
grade because of his love of scholarship and ambition
to lead the class, the other making the same grade
because such knowledge is preparing him for future
distinction and success in his profession, any theory
that the training of the first man is “liberal” and the
training of the other of a tainted and lower grade oi
intellectual effort because “vocational,” is a clear case
in my mind of outgrown and harmful traditionalism
in judging higher education.

Fourth: Every young man entering upon a four-
year course of college training should determine as
soon as practicable what future life-work offers to
him the most congenial, successful, and useful career.
He should then shape his college studies so as to

make him not only broad-minded and _ thoroughly
prepared to become a “leading citizen,” but also pre-
pare to utilize this life-work as the economic or in-
dustrial element of his life-career.

Fifth: ‘The present indifference of the average
college student toward required studies which he be-
eves to be alien and theoretic, his devotion to campus
activities as of more value than mere book-learning,
and the utter failure and rejection of such a large
proportion of these picked and winnowed | high-
school graduates who every year begin their college
training—all furnish convincing proof that our
former system of abstract “liberal” studies in fixed
curricula for all, without reference to individual
trends or characteristics, is an outgrown system and
theory which make little appeal to the practical
America of today, and allow the side-shows, as Pres-
ident Woodrow Wilson so strikingly asserted, to en-
tirely eclipse the attractions of the main educational
tent.

This is a bit of extempore and hurried dictation
and may sorely need more careful statement and more
elaborate argument, but I believe almost every col-
lege graduate who has taken his later training in the
“World University” of practical life will heartily
agree with the conclusions I have reached.

PORTRAITS FOR LEE SCHOOL OF
JOURNALISM

Lexington, Va.—General Robert E. Lee’s picture
now graces the walls of the Journalism School named
after him at Washington and Lee University, here.

A large portrait of the former president of Wash-
ington and Lee has arrived and now hangs over the
mantle-piece in the copy-editing room of the Journal-
ism Building. ‘The picture was presented to the Uni-
versity in 1873, being made from a photograph from
life. The Lee School was started by General Lee in
1869, and was the first one in the country.

A portrait of the late Henry W. Waterson, editoriai
writer on the Louisville Courier-Journal has been or-
dered and will hang over the mantel-piece in the

 

news room. He is generally considered, according to
Professor Roscoe B. Ellard, head of the school, one
of the greatest newspaper men in the country,

Honorable and Mrs. L. F. Klutz, °10, of Newton,
N. C., were appointed by Governor A. W. McLean
as delegates to the Pan American Commercial Con-
gress to be held at Roosevelt Hotel, New York City,
on December 14th to 17th. Mr. Klutz is a member
of the North Carolina Legislature.

20 : THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Local Alumni Associations

If you are interested in forming an active Alumni
Chapter or want to get in touch with an active Alumni
Chapter in or near your home locality, get in touch
with the following alumni. (Asterisk marks, active
chapters. )

Alabama,
C. Mercer McCrum, ’07, Birmingham.
W. J. Rushton, ’21, Birmingham Ice & Cold Stor-
age Co., Birmingham.

Arkansas.
*Deaderick H. Cantrell, ’85, Atty., Little Rock.
Harry K. Young, °17, Howe-Neely Lumber Co.,
Helena.
California.
Charles W. Gregg, 92, 527 H. W. Hellman Bldg.,

Los Angeles.
Carlton D. Dethlefsen, ‘14, 479 Mills Bldg., San

Francisco.

Colorado.
Dr. Solomon Schaefer, 04, 1819 N. Cascade Ave.,
Colorado Springs.

District of Columbia.
Elwood H. Seal, 14, Investment Bldg., Washing-
ton, D. C.

Florida.
*Robert H. Baker, 96, Atlantic Natl. Bank Bldg.,
Jacksonville.
Paul R. Scott, °17, 1016 First Natl. Bank Bldg.,
Miami.
« C. R. Pilkington,
lando.
*K. I. McKay, ’04, Citrus Exchange Bldg., ‘Tampa.

Georgia.
*Ewing S. Humphreys, °10,
Atlanta.
Maynard B. Smith,
Atlanta.
Judge J. C. C. Black, "95, 2439 Kings Way, Au-
gusta.

04, Yowell-Drew Bldg., Or-

1114 Healey Bidg.,

"12, 34 Westminster Drive,

/llinots.
Charles J. Faulkner, Jr.,
cago.

Armour & Company, Chi-

Kentucky.
*Robert P. Hobson, °17, 610-612 Inter-Southern
Bldg., Louisville.
Louisiana,
*F. P. Hamilton, 03, 1125 Hibernia Bank Bldg.,
New Orleans.
*John H. Tucker,
Shreveport.

‘10, Commercial Bank Bldg.,

  
   
   
   

Maryland.
Jackson R. Collins, 18, 1114 Munsey Bldg., Bal
timore.
a
Massachusetts. 3
D. C. Satterwhite, 96, 448 Andubon Rd., Boston,
Misstssip pi.

Wm. Calvin Wells, 18, Lamar Life Bldg., Jackson.

Missouri.
Rees Turpin, 93, 930 N. Y. Life Bldg., Kamas

City.
W. McChesney Martin, 92, Federal Reserve Bank
St. Louis.
New Jersey. a
Judge E. C. Caffrey, 09, Court of Common Pleas, | a
Newark.
Rey. Wm. T. Hanzsche, ’13, 347 Spring Street,
Trenton.
New Me.ico. 4
Hiram Dow, ‘08, Atty., Rosewell. 4
New York. 2
*Dr. Wm. E. Dold, '77, 666 Madison Ave., New —
York City. 4
D. R. Snively, ’23, 16 East 40th Street, New York
City.

North Carolina.

Ruffner Cambell, 13, Jackson Bldg., Asheville.

Thomas McP. Glasgow, ’16, 1410 E. 4th Street, —
Charlotte. o

Roger W. Harrison, 99, Greensboro. 4

Lorentz ‘I. White, 16, 10 E. Davie Street, Raleigh.

John D. Corbett, ’20, 119 South 4th Street, Wilming- s
ton. %

Ohio.

“Lawrence C. Witten, 10, 1625 Union Trust Bldg.,
Cincinnati.
B. F. Fiery, °13, 1924 Union Trust Bldg., Cleve-
land.
Oklahoma.

B. E. Clark, ’06, 401 First Natl. Bank Bldg., Ok-
lahoma City.

 

Oregon.
Rev. D. W. McCluer, 04, 443 E. 48th Street,
Portland.
Pennsylvania.
*N. C. Evans, ’16, 533 Wood Street, Pittsburgh.

Wm. A. Glasgow, ’86,
Bldg., Philadelphia.

1016 Real Estate ‘Trust.

 

(Continued on Page 38)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

REV. GEORGE JUNKIN, D.D., FORMER
PRESIDENT OF WASHINGTON COL-
LEGE, REINTERRED AT
LEXINGTON

Friday afternoon, October 23rd, the remains otf
Rev. Dr. George Junkin, from 1848 to 1861 president
of Washington College, Lexington, Va., were rein-
terred in the Presbyterian cemetery at Lexington.
Dr. Junkin died in Philadelphia in 1868 and was
buried in the suburbs of that city. Descendants of
Dr. Junkin have removed his remains and those ot
his daughter, Mrs. Julia M. Fishburn, to Lexington
and had them reinterred among their immediate kin-
dred in the Junkin family plot. Here in 1854 Mrs.
Julia Rush Junkin, wife of Dr. Junkin, was buried.
His remains now rest by her side. Mrs. Fishburn
was buried near her husband and child in the same
plot. She was the widow of Professor Julius M.
Fishburn, of the faculty of Washington College who
died in 1858. Mrs. Fishburn died in Philadelphia,
where she long made her home, some years ago.
Two sons and two daughters of Dr. Junkin are al-
ready buried in this cemetery in the family plot, Mrs.
Elinor Junkin Jackson, wife of Major Thomas J.
Jackson, later General Jackson; and Rev. Dr. Ebe-
nezer D. Junkin; in adjoining plots are buried a
daughter and a son, Mrs. Margaret J. Preston, wife
of Colonel John T. L. Preston, and Rev. Dr. William
F. Junkin.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY RELIC GIVEN TO
UNIVERSITY

Old Latin Book Comes to University Through W.
R. Thomas, of Roanoke, and Was Formally
Presented Some Time Ago

A small leather-bound book, at one time owned by
George Johnson, a student at Liberty Hall Academy
in 1790, has been presented to Washington and Lee
University by Mr. Edwin Wood Pitzer of Roanoke.

Mr. Pitzer found among the effects of his family
this book—‘Coderii Colloquiorum’’—published — in
Philadelphia in 1787. ‘The book is a Latin text with
English translations beside the Latin.

Through W. E. Thomas, business manager of the
Times-World Corporation of Roanoke, Mr. Pitzer
corresponded with the university, and on October
28th, formally presented the book to be added to
Washington and Lee’s already large collection of his-
torical relics.

WOULD HAVE ROOM AT UNIVERSITY

FOR LEE RELICS

At the meeting of Mary Custis Lee Chapter, U. D.
C., held Tuesday, at Lexington, Dr. William M.
Brown, ’14, of the Washington and Lee faculty, gave

" OS AN,

6) FORTY-THIRD ANNIVERSARY. fe

4 \ cas ‘
" =
:

ij

J

2

57. }
ie ee

“oor

 

3 oA,
VG The felcasure of you compan Ye ts ty
¥ { vcspeclfully ceguested at the Ctlnncver- (% ~~
Me sary Meeting of the ‘ eer
3h Washington Literary Society, be
as to be held in theeP? Pall on Chonda; LY Sv
*

Eventn ; the 23d of Sebewary, at oh

 

& Y o'clock, ,
7 EW
<— : Committee of Invitation. pb

net g

° DANIEL BLAIN, J. H.H. FiecGat, 7
Se H, C. Brown, J. 1. Girsorz, = \ 2g.
CF) HW. Y. CITESTER, I. R. Gopwin, aN

Washington College, January 20th, 1857 ; g

  

INVITATION TO LirERARY Society MEETING IN 1857
(Courtesy of F. L. Sattes, 19)

 

 

an interesting talk on the importance of collecting and
preserving relics of General Robert E. Lee, and
asked the co-operation of the chapter in this work.
He expressed the hope that the University would set
apart a room in which these relics can be stored, and
seen by visitors.

COPY OF WASHINGTON’S DEGREE OF
LL.B. ADDED TO COLLECTION

A photographic copy of the college degree received
by George Washington has been added to the collec-
tion of relics of founders of Washington and Lee
University.

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, president, said that as far
as can be learned the only degree ever conferred upon
Washington was LL.B., by Washington College,
Maryland.

The copy of the diploma was donated by a New
York attorney. The original is in the Library of
Congress at Washington. Washington was _ promi-
nently connected with the early history of Washington
and Lee University, having endowed it and officially
authorized it to use his name.

 

 

 

 

Y BEWARE
\

© -AD

 

 

 

Top row, standing; left to right: W. H. Puckett (then of Colorado; later of Idaho), Chas. S$. Gill (Mo.), Top row, standings
J. W. Sullivan (Ky.), Jesse J. Vinyard ( ) Jas. Patton (Lexingt®

Second row, sitting; left to right: Fred A. Forsythe (Ky.), Joel Funkhouser (Mo.), J. P. Withers (Mo.), Middle row, sitting?
L. S. Eades (then of Missouri; later of Arkansas), Rudolph Baumgardner (Va.). Jottom row, siti

Bottom row, sitting on ground; left to right: FE. Moses Jackson (Mo.), Hugh Neal (West Va.), D. E. Sullivan (Ky.), ©
Phillips (Colo.-Utah),——J. T. McCrum residence, 1890-91.

Top row, standing; left to right: Gayle (Va.), Eades (Mo.), Lorraine (Pa.-Fla.), W. Z. Johnstone (Va.), ja
Walter A. Bragg (Ala.), James Patton (Va.), Rudolph Carmichael (Va.). (Courtesy of 4

Second row; left to right: Jones (N. C.), Puckett (Colo.-Idaho), E. I. Towt (Mo.), Sullivan (Ky.), Har-
ris (Miss.), Jackson (Mo.).

(1890-91) A. O. B. T. (“Ancient Order of Bloody Travelers”) Fake Fraternity.

 

 

-

al

 

 

Top row, standing; left to right: Hal. L. Norwood (Ark.), J. W. Sullivan (Ky.), D. Lawrence Groner
(Va.), W. H. Puckett (then of Colorado; later of Idaho).

Bottom row, sitting; left to right: Rudolph Baumgardner (Va.), I. W. Caviness (Ga.), John W. Avery
(Va.), Frank B. Baldwin (Ala.), Geo. Hill Goddard (Mo.).

J. T. McCrum residence, 1889-90.

(1) Shanks, (2) Junkin, (3) Cooper, (4) Ripy, (5) Funkhouser, (6) Bruce, (7) Forsythe, (8) Gill, (9) Hatton,
(10) Capt. Perry, (11) Ward, (12) Stovall, (13) Ballinger, (14) Gayle, (15) Poindexter, (16) Curd, (17) Portwood,
(18) Puckett, (19) Joe Glasgow, (20) Patton, (21) Turpin, (22) Eades, (23) Harris, (24) Clayton, (25) Lee,
(26) Bragg, (27) Stuart, (28) McGlasgow, (29) Jones, (30) Phillips, (31) Groner, (32) Perry, (33) Sullivan,
(34) Sherrard, (35) Shelton, (36) Pendleton, (37) Jackson, (38) Dodge, (39) Sproul, (40) Robinson, (41) Lor
raine, (42) Field, (43) Wilcox and (44) “Flubie’’.

 

 

24 THE AILUMNI MAGAZINE

MANY FAMOUS VIRGINIA HOMES
RETAINED BY ALUMNI

In answer to the criticism that many of the ances-
tral estates of the Old Dominion have passed into the
hands of “outlanders,” a list of these estates retained
by descendants of their original owners have been
published.

Among those listed in a dispatch to the New York
Morning Telegraph many are owned and occupied by
Washington and Lee alumni. ‘‘Ravensworth’’ is
owned by Dr. George Bolling Lee, 93, Trustee of
Washington and Lee; “Shirly,” ancestral home of the
Carters, is occupied by Admiral James H. Oliver, ’72,
who married Miss Marion Carter; “Hickory Hiil,”
near Hanover, is owned and occupied by Honorable
H. T. Wickham, ’68.

The dispatch also states, “Nor have the Bruces
parted with the most beautiful of their ancestral
seats. The elder branch of the family still occupy as
their permanent home, ‘Berry Hill,’ situated in Hali-
fax County. This mansion was recently pronounced
in a public lecture by Prof. Fiske Kimball, well known
architect of New York, to be the most magnificent
example of the Colonial residential style now in ex-
istence in the South.” State Senator Malcolm G.
Bruce, graduate in the 92 Law Class, owns and op-
erates “Berry Hill.”

WAR LETTERS OF KIFFIN YATES
ROCKWELL, ’11

The Alumni Office is in grateful receipt of the
“War Letters of Kiffin Yates Rockwell,’ memorial
edition compiled by his brother, Paul Rockwell, ’10.

Not since the “Life and Letters of Walter Hines
Page” has the editor read a more gripping war bi-
ography. ‘The dynamic, almost effervescent, personal-
ity of Kiffin Rockwell, volunteer to the Foreign Le-
gion and ace of the Lafayette escadrille, bubbles from
its pages.

Permission has been requested to reprint some of
the letters in THe ALUMNI MacaziIne. Should it be
granted, the series will be started in the next (March)
issue,

Paul Rockwell, 710, donor of the volume, has been
providing some material for his own biography. He
was one of the first to join the French Foreign Le-
gion for aviation service in Morocco against the Riffs.
He recently underwent the thrilling ordeal of being
lost over the Riff Mountains for two hours with an
unreleased 50 kilo bomb swinging beneath his plane.
He finally landed at Ouezzane, taking the chance that
there would not be a sufficient jolt to explode the
bomb. Fortunately, his landing was perfect.

 

C. M. Peck, °13, is practicing law in Oakland,
California. |

TWYMAN, SCOTT AND McCARTHY, OF
MIAMI, FLORIDA

Not infrequently do Washington and Lee Alumni
associate themselves in business after graduation,
Nor is it infrequent for the Alumni Office to receive
requests for a recommendation of an alumnus to fill
a specific need or vacancy.

Paul Scott, '17, energetic and aggressive, of Min-
neapolis, Minnesota, and Lewis Twyman, 15, suave
and polished, of Fincastle, Virginia, went to Florida
before the boom. They went to Miami for the prac-
tice of law. There they became associated with Judge
A. J. Rose and Judge Armistead Brown, senior law-
yers of Miami. Later the former was elected Circuit
Judge and the latter appointed to the Supreme Bench
of Florida. : |

In May 1922, the firm of Scott and Twyman was
formed and engaged in a general practice. Their
business soon demanded additional help. They wrote
to Dean Moreland, ’06, of the Law School, to recom-
mend a likely young lawyer from the Law Class of
1923. A. L. McCarthy, of Houston, Texas, was Pro-
fessor Moreland’s choice.

From the outset, McCarthy proved to be a wheel
horse. A year after going to Miami, he became a
member of the firm. Serious of purpose, with the
gift of a “legal mind,’ McCarthy soon justified the
high recommendation he had received.

Like most lawyers in Florida, the members of this
Washington and Lee firm took advantage of the many
opportunities to buy and sell real estate. The results
were so gratifying that Paul Scott turned his entire
attention to the real estate field and, therefore, with-
drew from his law firm.

When asked about the “Florida Boom,’ Lewis
Twyman said, “It has assumed such proportions that
it broke up a law partnership of six years’ standing.
The truth is that while law practice has been, and still
is, good here, the returns from real estate investment
have been little short of marvelous.”

 

WHERE IS THE LARGEST W. & L. FIRM?

On this page is an article about Twyman, Scott &
McCarthy, a law firm composed entirely of Washing-
ton and Lee men. In Tampa, Florida, there is the
law firm of (Bob) Withers, ’05, (KK. I.) McKay, ’04,
and (M. B.) Withers, ’11. The Steves Sash and
Door Company of San Antonio, Texas, has Albert
Steves, Sr., ’79, Ernest Steves, ’79, Albert Steves, Jr., —
06, Walter Steves, *11, and R. R. Witt, 12, on its
roll of officers. The Alumni Office would like to list
all firms or business concerns with three or more W.
& L. alumni employed.

 

“Tony” Webster, °13, is practising law in San
Francisco.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

Carl A. Foss, ‘20, Locates “Square and Compass” Headquarters in
lexington

National headquarters for the fraternity of
“Square and Compass” was established in Lexington
last September by Carl A. Foss, ’20, General Secre-
tary of the organization. In addition to administer-
ing the affairs of the fraternity, Mr. Foss teaches a
few classes at Washington and Lée.

During the World War, Mr. Foss received the
Croix de Guerre after being severely wounded in
France. After graduation from the Law School, he
served as Y. M. C. A. Secretary at the University of
Alabama for two years. He then accepted his pres-
ent position and established headquarters at Alexan-
dria Bay, New York. Inasmuch as the organization
of “Square and Compass” was founded at Washing-
ton and Lee, he deemed it more fitting to maintain his
office at Lexington.

[n a published interview, Mr. Foss gave out the fol-
lowing information relative to the formation of the
National organization :

“The present national fraternity of ‘Square and
Compass’ is the successor of the Masonic Club of
Washington and Lee that had existed for over a
quarter of a century before its organization into a
Masonic fraternity in the spring of 1917. They gave
their organization the name of ‘Square and Compass
and had it incorporated under the laws of the Com-
monwealth of Virginia.

“The first officers of this charter were: E,. F.
Grossman, president; Dr. T. J. Farrar, vice-presi-
dent; Carl A. Foss, secretary; and Lacy L. Shirey,
treasurer,

“In the fall.of 1919 activity was revived at Wash-
ington and Lee, a convention of Southern college Ma-
sonic clubs was called for January, 1920, and the pub-
lication of the fraternity magazine, ‘The College Ma-
son,’ was started. Before the end of the schooi year
chapters were established at Tulane and Colgate uni-
versities, and ‘Square and Compass’ was on its way
to becoming a national organization.

 

C. A. Foss, ’20

 

 

Now 47 CHAPTERS

“At the present time there are forty-seven active
squares and three inactive squares, having a total of
5,156 members. Twelve squares own their own
homes. Conventions of the fraternity were held in
lexington in 1920 and 1922, and in New Orleans in
1924. ‘The next convention will be held at Madison,
\Wisconsin, in December, 1926.

Oxnjyecr to AROUSE MAsons

“The objects of ‘Square and Compass’ are (1) to
arouse an interest in the fraternity among all Master
Masons on the campus; (2) to provide a college or-
ganization where students and professors can meet
upon the same level; (3) to create an interest among
its members in the history, symbolism, jurisprudence,
and philosophy of Freemasonry; (4) to increase fra-
ternalism on the campus; and (5) to do everything
possible for the upbuilding of the Masonic Craft.”

 

 

WITH THE FACULTY

Dr. Franklin L. Riley, Professor of History (on
leave of absence) was one of the principal speakers
at a recent meeting of the History and Political Sc1-
ence Honor Society at Los Angeles, California. Dr.
Riley is now teaching at the University of Southern
California.

Professor Robert H. Tucker, of the School of

Commerce, presided at the conference held under the
auspices of the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce
in Richmond, November 18th to 21st, for the discus-
sion of State Tax problems.

Dean Harry D. Campbell, ’82, attended the meet-
ing of Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools
of Southern States and Commission on Institutions
of Higher Education, of which he is Chairman, in
Charleston, South Carolina.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Samuel R. Gammon, Jr., |! 2

Several years ago | called to see S$. R. Gammon,
‘12, in Baltimore, where he was studying for his Doc-
tor’s Degree at Johns Hopkins. He was not at home,
but I had the pleasure of meeting his wife. In the
course of conversation she told me of their plans for
Mr. Gammon to secure a position on the faculty of
some Southern college or university. She had a vi-
sion for their work together in the educational field.

The years have passed. ‘The other day I received
a letter from him telling something of his work at
Texas A. & M. College where he is now Professor of
history and in charge of the History Department.
My mind went back to that conversation in Baltimore.
Ambitions are realized if we are willing to complete
the necessary preparation for their fulfillment.

Mr. Gammon received his A. B. from Washington
and Lee in three years, and graduated with his Mas-
ters Degree in 1913. He then taught for two years
at Austin College, of Sherman, Texas, to secure funds
for taking up graduate work at Johns Hopkins.
While in the midst of his course there, the War
clouds broke over the United States. He served in
the Army until 1919, reaching the grade of First
Lieutenant in the Infantry.

In the meantinie, he was married. In 1920 the
first baby came. Undeterred, he completed his work
at Johns Hopkins, received his Ph. D. degree and
rightly assumed that his academic preparation was
complete. He became Professor of History and Po-
litical Science at Austin College and served for four

November 19, 1925.
New Castle, Pa.
Mr. V. E. Kemp, Secretary.
Dear Sir:
I have received The Alumni Magazine regularly
and it has been a source of much enjoyment to me.
At the W. & L.-Pitt game this Fall we had a good

representation considering that we are so few in num-

ber. However, the outlook is brighter for a greater

W. & L. Alumni in this section in the near future.

Through the efforts of Rev. “Bill” Claudy, Chick
Evans and others we have inaugurated a local chap-
ter in the Pittsburgh District for W. & L. men.

In closing, permit me to state that I believe that
The Alumni Magazine is the only satisfactory instru-
ment that can keep the Alumni together.

Sincerely yours,
William F, McCann, ‘19.
My dear Kemp:

[ enclose my check for $2.00 for The Alumni Mag-

azine. Please send it to me to Washington, D. C.,

c/o Powhatan Hotel, I am much pleased with it.

 

»

SAMUEL R. GAMMoN, Jr., ‘12

 

 

years. Last year he was called to the Chair which he
now holds at the Texas A. & M. College, well on the
way to the fulfillment of early ambitions.

VERBON FE. KEMP.

 

You are getting up a splendid magazine, and it will
be of great value.
Sincerely, H. St. G. Tucker.

 

Canton Christian College,
November 12, 1925.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

In response to your notice of expiration of my sub-
scription to The Alumni Magazine, I am enclosing a
check for $3.50 for two years’ subscription.

It is especially fine for a fellow away out around
the world like this to have the magazine. I never
cease to wonder at the way it carries one back over the
miles and the years to see the old names and classes
and pictures of the old places.

[ am expecting to have another real look at it all
soon. My family and I shall undertake the big job
of moving from China to West Virginia next sum-
mer. ‘Then we shall visit old W..& L. as soon as pos-
sible after getting settled.

With best wishes, I remain,

Yours sincerely,
H. B. Graybill, ’02.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

Admiral James H. Oliver, 69

Washington and Lee Alumni serve in all corners ot
the globe. Many are in the Foreign Mission fields.
Some are in the various branches of the U. S. Army.
ew have seen lengthy service in the U. 5. Navy.

Walking the upper porch of the grand old Colonial
mansion at Shirley, Virginia, ancestral estate of the
Carters, and viewing the broad expanse of the James
as it winds a bend, Admiral James H. Oliver, 69,
might well imagine himself on the bridge of one of
his commands in the U. 8. Navy.
his gaze might range up this historic old stream, once

Jinoculars in hand,

an avenue of Federal attack on Richmond, or down-
ward toward Smithfield, famous for its hams.

After Washington and Lee, James H. Oliver be-
came Cadet Oliver at the U. S. Naval Academy, grad-
uating in 1877. ‘Then came cruises in the Atlantic,
Pacific, Indian and Baltic Seas, an uneventful life for
a sea-faring man, but to the landlubber, tinged with
romance and seductive mystery. But storms came in
the shape of War. He saw service in the Phillipine
campaign, the Boer Insurrection and the World
War. He was decorated for distinguished service
in each conflict. For three terms he was on the staff
of the Naval War College; commanded an auxiliary
ship in the Atlantic, a cruiser in the Pacific, a battle-
ship in the Atlantic, was chief of the office of Naval
Intelligence, Governor of the Virgin Islands and
Commandant of the U. S. Naval Station there. His
last service before retirement was as Director of War
Plans in the Navy Department.

A volume could be written on such an eventful,
if not colorful, career. THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
would like to publish it in serial form! But Admiral

TROUBADOUR SHOW SUCCESSFUL

The Thanksgiving performance of “The Whole
Town’s Talking,” by the Washington and Lee Trouba-
dours, in Lexington, was of particular merit. The
production was ably directed by John T. Martin oi
Charleston, West Virginia, assisted by Professors
John Graham, °12, and Carl Gill, ’22.

“Johnny” Martin, senior student in the Academic
School is the son of W. H. Martin, ’88, editor of the
“Charleston Daily Mail.” He has displayed muci
talent in his direction of Troubadour productions.

A delightful musical program was rendered be-
tween acts by a special orchestra under the direction
of Prof. John Graham, who has acted as Faculty
Counselor of the Troubadours since its organization
in 1919.

James E. Humphreys, ’25, is Assistant Superin-
tendent of the Jackson Bros. Company, saw mill, in
Fayetteville, N. C.

 

ApMIRAL JAMES H. Oliver, '69

 

 

Oliver, courteously attentive to our requests for in-
formation about himself, could not conceive of any-
thing of interest to other Alumni in his experiences.
Sut with the high lights left out, such a career stands
forth in our chronicles of individual Alumni achieve-
ment in clear-cut relief against a background of un-
selfish devotion to ideals and country!

GENERAL HART PROVIDES ESTIMATE
FOR RECONDITIONING ARLINGTON

Major General W. H. Hart, quartermaster-general
of the army, has sent to Director Lord of the budget
an estimate of $225,000 for reconditioning the man-
sion at Arlington in which Robert E. Lee, the Con-
federate leader, made his home.

General Lord is expected to transmit this to Con-
egress at its coming session to carry out the provisions
of the act of March 4, last, authorizing restoration of
the mansion. Of the $225,000 estimate, $160,000 is
planned for repairing and repainting the mansion and
purchasing furniture and equipment to place it in its
original setting. The balance will be used to provide
new living quarters and offices for the superintend-
ent of Arlington National Cemetery and his assistants,
who now occupy the mansion.

J. C. Henderson, ’24, is with the Coles-Henderson
Jusurance Agency of Montgomery, West Virginia.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FROM CHINESE FIELDS

C. H. Patterson, 19, missionary stationed at Sut-
sein, Kiangsu, China, writes of the Chinese political
turbulance: “As for danger to life in such times of
disorder, I feel that there is very little. The Chinese
are not a blood thirsty people. We do not always feel
that our property is very safe or that we may not be
insulted in various ways, but we feel safe personally.
As a matter of fact we have met with nothing but
courtesy during this period.”

He also quoted an amusing letter from a firm to
which he had written concerning the purchase of a
suit of khaki clothes, which was as follows:

“Dear Sir, As your coat which showed the All the
taylor of Chinkiang, they says haven’t for keep As
your order the ‘Khaki’ and so enclosing few kinds
of cloth Sample If have some fit you please write By
Return mail let thy make for your patern never to be
Shrinks on- washing.

“Also please reply as soon as possible,

“Yours truly.
luebo, Congo Belge, Africa,
October 13, 1925.
Dear Verbon:

Your letter reached me by the last mail.

Unfortunately it

I cer-
tainly appreciate your writing me.
is very easy to get out of touch with things after leav-
ing college, and that is what I feel that I have done.
I wish I could take one of the state air-planes that
bring us mail and fly over to Lexington for a week-
end visit now and then.

Thanks very much for Walter Smith’s address. i
had written to him a few weeks ago as Vice-Consul,
not knowing of his decision to stay in the States. He
has a much more cogenial work, | imagine, in Jack-
sonville. He’s a born lawyer; remember the summer
he made $700 as a map agent in New Jersey?

At present we are in the midst of our annual Muis-
sion Meeting. ‘There are ten or fifteen delegates from
our other stations here at Luebo now, among them
Frank Gilliam, a W. & L. man slightly before your
time, I think. We were good friends at college, and
are better friends out here. I’m sure you must know
him, however, because he is a live W. & L. man.
Right now I have some Ring-tum Phis on my table
which he gave me to read. As you probably know,
he is at the head of the Mission’s educational work.

The work out here is even more interesting than |
had anticipated. The natives are very attractive and
in very great need of everything that will make to-
ward righteousness and liberty from ignorance and
sin. I hope you fellows will remember me in prayer.

With cordial regards, I am

Yours sincerely,
Louis A. McMurray, °19.

 

 

 

Louis S. Epss, ’08

 

ALUMNI HONORED IN STATE ELECTIONS

A number of Washington and Lee Alumni were
honored in the Virginia State elections held in No-
vember. Honorable Junius E. West, ’87, of Suffolk,
was re-elected Lieutenant-Governor; B. O. James,
‘77, of Richmond, was re-elected Secretary of the
Commonwealth, and Louis S. Epes, ‘08, of Black-
stone, Virginia, was elected to the State Corporation
Commission. (A review of Mr. Epes’ achievements
appeared in the November issue of the Alumni Mag-
azine. )

Seven Alumni were chosen by their respective dis-
tricts to represent them in the House of Delegates.
They were, W. M. Tuck, ’21, of South Boston; W.
A. Wright, °16, of Tappahannock; W. C. Hall, ‘14,
of Leesburg; E. T. Boyd, ’"—, of Lynchburg; V. L.
Page, 16, of Norfolk; J. H. Price, ’11, of Richmond;
and Frank Moore, 96, of Lexington. J. H. Price is

a candidate for Speaker of the House this term.

LOCAL W. AND L. ALUMNI ORGANIZE

At a meeting of local Washington and Lee alumni
held following the football banquet Monday night,
November 30th, the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association of Lexington was organized with Cap-
tain E. L. Graham as president and Stuart Moore,
secretary and treasurer.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

“Pin” Webster, '|] 2, of Schenectady, New York

“Pin” Webster entered the School of Hard Knocks
through the portals of the teaching and coaching pro-
fession. After receiving his A. B. and an accumula-
tion of athletic monograms in 1912, he became coach
and instructor at the Bingham Military School at
Asheville, North Carolina, where he served for two
years.

There we can take up his own modest account of
his migrations. He said: “I was forced to accept a
position in the Sales Department of the Ford Motor
Company, Detroit, Michigan. They soon grew tired
of seeing me around the big plant and proceeded to
shift me to the branch office in Detroit, where |
proved such a nuisance that they proceeded to send
me to New York. After loafing in the New York
office, and in the Long Island City Assembly Plant,
[ was sent to Brooklyn as Assistant Manager, secur-
ing the position simply because I was one of the few
men in that organization able to read and write Eng-
lish. After battling with conditions in Brooklyn
some two years I decided to branch out on my own,
so came to Schenectady and opened a Ford agency,
said business continuing up to the present time, due
to the fact that the local sheriff is not a fast runner.”

During the War he entered the first Officers Train-
ing Camp and was commissioned Second Lieutenant
of Infantry, but was later transferred to the Motor
Transport Corps. During two years service in France,
he was promoted to First Lieutenant and then Captain.
As Captain he had command of a free lance motor
train of eight companies.

In addition to his Ford, Lincoln, Fordson Sales and
Service Company at Schenectady, “Pin” Webster is
vice-president of the Southern States Finance Cor-

MARKER UNVEILED ON SPOT WHERE
LEE AND JACKSON FIRST MET AS
CONFEDERATE COMMANDERS

An Associated Press dispatch from Richmond re-
cently said:

“The Old Dominion bared her head in reverent
tribute today as a group of distinguished Virginians
stood on holy ground, a little spot in Hanover county
where General Lee and Stonewall Jackson joined
hands and forces in the defense of Richmond to do
honor to the memory of her sons who fought and
bled and died during that historic Seven Days strug-
gle to defeat the desperate attempt of General Mc-
Clellan to drive his Union forces over the Confed-
Crate lines and take the capital. The first of a series

lr markers erected to commemorate the principal

 

W. L. “Prin” Wesster, 712

 

poration of San Antonio, Texas, and a director of the
Union National Bank of Schenectady. He says that
being the best left-handed golfer ever sent out from
Washington and Lee is his only claim to fame.

 

points of the seven days battle was unveiled this after-
noon.

“The memorial marked the end of General Jack-
son’s remarkable march from the Shenandoah Val-
ley. It was unveiled by Dr. George Bolling Lee ot
New York, a grandson of Robert E. Lee. As _ he
drew aside the canvas, the guns of the Richmond
Howitzers, a battery of distinguished record in the
War Between the States, fired a salute while detach-
ments from the Richmond Light Infantry Blues and
the First Virginia Regiment, and a company of the
Thirty-fourth Infantry from Fort Eustice, stood at
attention.”

D. Allen Penick, ’ 24, is at 345 Plant Avenue,
Tampa, Florida.

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

OBITUARY

The Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated,
regrets to announce the following notices of deaths
among its membership. In doing so, we wish to ex-
press for the University her deepest sympathy for
the families of the deceased and her sorrow at the
loss of her sons:

Rev. Daniel Penick Junkin, D.D., ’81, of McClel-
lanville, S. C., died suddenly at Mt. Pleasant, ae Cs
during November. He was buried in the Junkin fam-
ily plot at Lexington, Virginia. After graduating at
Washington and Lee, and the Union Theological
Seminary, Dr. Junkin taught for three years in the
government schools of Japan. He then returned to
America and entered upon the duties of a Presby-
terian Minister, serving churches in Texas, Virginia
and South Carolina.

Lemuel B. Black, 69, died at his home in Waco,
‘Texas.

Dr. Walter M. Coleman, B.A., ’89, originally from
Chappell Hill, ‘Texas, died November 10th at Suva,
Fiji Islands, where he has been doing research
work. He was formerly professor of Natural Science
at the Sam Houston Normal Institute of Huntsville,
Texas.

Frank C. Beall, ’72, of Frostburg, Maryland, passed
away on May 18th after a long illness.

John W. Kennedy, ’80, of Charleston, West Va.,
died October 17th, at his home.

Norman F. Walker, ’70, of New Orleans, Louis-
iana, died December Ist, after a lingering illness.
He was an active figure in New Orleans journalism
for fifty years, serving at various times as Editor
and Associate-Editor of the New Orleans “Times
Democrat,” “The Picayune” and the “Times  Pic-
ayune.”

W. A. Charters, ’83, of Gainsville, Georgia, died
September 13th, at his home.

Dr. ‘TI. Fred Bock, ’12, Physician of East Aurora,
New York, died during September after a lingering
illness.

Forrest Fielder, 19, was instantly killed in an
automobile accident on November 23rd, near his
home in Silver City, New Mexico.

George E. Barker, ’26, student and Manager-elect
of Football, was instantly killed in an automobile
accident at Roanoke, December 4th. |

Dr. Frank Bell Webb, ’69, died at his home in
Birmingham, Alabama, on November 30th.

John Leslie Curry, 12, formerly of Staunton, Vir-
ginia, died on December 28th at St. Croix, Virgin
fslands, where he was practicing Law.

 

Hubert Jenkins, ’25, is head man at the Jenkins
Horse & Mule Company, of Fayetteville, North Car-
olina.

RICE AND OLD SHOES

Ellis M. Bristow, ’15, who is engaged in business _

in Washington, D. C., was married on December 17th a
to Miss Minerva Lake of that city. a

 

The following wedding invitation of interest has 4
been received by friends in Lexington: “Mr. and —

Mrs. Henry Boyd Staley request the honor of your —
presence at the marriage of their daughter, Pauline —
Hull, to Mr. Lewis Preston Collins, ’20, on Saturday,

the second of January, at seven o'clock, Royal Oak

Presbyterian Church, Marion, Virginia.”

 

Professor Charles A. Graves, a former popular
member of the Law faculty of Washington and Lee, —
ond a graduate in the class of ’69, and Miss Kather-
ine R. Lipop of Charlottesville, were married in
Charlottesville on Saturday, December 26th. Pro-
fessor Graves has been a member of the Law faculty
of the University of Virginia for the twenty-six years
since leaving Washington and Lee. Miss Lipop was
Law librarian at the University of Virginia. After

the wedding, Professor and Mrs. Graves left for a

New York City.
abroad.

Next summer they will travel

Dr. Frank M. Leech, B. A., 16, surgeon of Lex- |
ington, and Miss Bess McDonald Dunlap of Kerrs
Creek, Virginia, were married at the home of the
bride ‘Tuesday afternoon, December 29th.

BOB WITT, 713

 

It is reported to us that Bob Witt, ’13, engaged in
the brokerage business in San Antonio, Texas, is a
most zealous hunter. Every year, during the hunting
season, he has gotten out his murderous weapons and
whispered to them, as he followed the trail, to do
their duty by him. But to no avail—his guns co
operated but the game didn’t. However, after four
years of enthusiastic but unsuccessful hunting, he has —
brought home a ten point deer. One of his friends
who is inclined to be a bit skeptical on account of those
years of fruitless shooting, has expressed the opinion
that the deer must have been frightened by the report
of the gun, fell and broke his neck. But his opinion
has been discounted by unbiased observers.

 

Tod Robins, ’14, who wrote the words of the
“Swing” has evidenced his inventive faculty in the
authorship of “The Unholy Three,” a recent motion
picture with an intensely interesting and original plot,
developed by a series of unusually clever details.
This picture was pronounced by the critics as one of
the two best pictures of the year. |

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

Early History of Washington College

(From the Record by Rev. Henry Ruffner, B.D.,
| LL.D., Volume I, Washington and Lee
Historical Papers)

CHAPTER I

From the year 1606, when Jamestown was first
permanently settled, it required about one hundred
years for the infant colony of Virginia to extend it-
self upwards to the neighborhood of the Blue Ridge.
The settlements on the upper branches of the Rap-
pahannock, and in the Northern Neck, between this
river and the Potomac, seem first to have approached
the high mountain barrier, whose tops, covered with
a blue mist, had long attracted the eyes of the settlers
in the distant plains below. Near the Potomac the
Ridge is less rugged and forbidding in its aspects, than
it is farther toward the southwest. When it was sur-
mounted by exploring parties of white men and dis-
played to their view the beauty and fertility of the
vale of Shenando, and of the uplands beyond it; the
temptation was irresistible and hardy adventurers
soon braved every danger for the sake of a posses-
sion so alluring. They began to form settlements on
the rich low grounds of the Shenando, but soon ven-
tured upon the pleasant uplands beyond. About the
same time the settlements in Pennsylvania were rap-
idly spreading themselves along the Great Limestone
Valley towards the Potomac, and some enterprising
families passed over into Virginia and seated them-
selves on the same rich uplands. There in a basin-
shaped cavity was founded the town of Winchester,
where the facility of obtaining water proved more
attractive than fine prospects from the surrounding
hills. This, the oldest town in the Great Valiey of
Virginia, continued to be a frontier post until the
Krench were driven out of Canada.

Happily for these infant settlements, the country
between the Blue Ridge and the Alleghany was not
inhabited by Indians, except by a band of Tuscaroras
on the creek which bears their name. The white set-
tlers near these Tuscaroras were chiefly Quakers,
trom Pennsylvania, “William Penn’s People,” whom
the Indians well knew and justly regarded as friends
to their race, because they were men of peace, and
never occupied Indian lands until they had purchased
them for a fair equivalent.

As the eastern part of our Valley lay equally con-
venient to settlers from Pennsylvania and from lower
Virginia, its population became a mixture of English
Virginians, and German and Scotch-Irish Pennsyl-
Vanians. Some of the latter were recent emigrants
‘rom Europe, who had landed at Philadelphia, and
sooner or later, made their way thence to the new
settlements in Virginia.

The German Pennsylvanians, being passionate lov-

crs of fat lands, no sooner heard what quantities of
them their brethren had found unoccupied in the Val-
ley of Virginia, than they began to pour themselves
forth, with their brethren from Europe, over the
country above Winchester. Finding the main Shen-
ando mostly pre-occupied, they followed up its North
and South Branches on both sides of the Massanut-
ten, or Peaked Mountain, until they filled up all the
rich vales of the country for the space of sixty miles.
So completely did they occupy this part of the Great
Valley, that the few stray English or Irish settlers
among them did not sensibly affect the homogeneous-
ness of the population. They long retained, and for
the most part do still retain, their German language,
and the German simplicity of their manners. Of
late years, indeed, a sensible transition has been in
progress about the borders of their settlements, and
about the villages where law and trade have caused
a mixture of population, and made inroads upon the
speech, manners, and dress imported from their fa-
therland. This change has grieved their old people,
who cannot give up the energetic language of their
sires, though its classical beauties be unknown to them,
nor the plain homespun dress of old times, nor see
their children give them up, without sorrowing for
the degeneracy of their race. Not a few of these
Germans of the Valley have become angelicized by dis-
persion, where they have been led by the temptation
of good farms to plunge into the mass of their Scotch-
Irish neighbors. Less disposed than others to distant
migrations and better qualified by their free labor to
renovate the exhausted soils of the country, they are
gradually filling up the vacancies left by their emi-
grating neighbors and slowly amalgamating with
those who remain. But without an efficient school
system in Virginia another century will pass away be-
fore they become an intelligent people, or adopt fully
the language and manners of our general popuiation.

How far they might have originally filled up the
Valley, if the way had been clear, we cannot tell; but
ere they had reached the head springs of the Shen-
ando, their immigrant columns were intercepted by
another race (James River Settlers), who soon filled
up an equal space beyond them in this new land of
promise. |

For the want of towns and roads, the new settlers
in the Valley were supplied with many needful ar-
ticles by peddlars who went from house to house.
Among these itinerant venders of small wares, was
cne Morlin (or Marland) who, in Williamsburg, met
with John Salling, an enterprising German, who,
struck with his account of the Valley, came up with
him to explore it. From Winchester they proceeded
southwestwardly far beyond the settlements, to the
vale of the James River. Here at the mouth of the

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

North River, Salling found a beautiful bottom, over-
shadowed with mountains, where he determined to
make a settlement. The exploring tour ended here.
Salling returned to Williamsburg, obtained a grant
for the beautiful bottom and _ settled upon it with a
brother of his named Peter Adam Salling. Jolin re-
mained a bachelor, but Peter Adam was married, and
his posterity are still found in the country. ‘There
are inconsistent traditional reports of his capacity
and adventures among the Indians and Spaniards of
Louisiana. The one given by Hugh P. Taylor and
after him by Withers, in his Border Warfare, is quite
romantic; and pity ‘tis, if it be not the true one. But
there is another, different in some material particulars,
floating somewhat vaguely in the traditional recollec-
tions of the family. Howbeit, they agree that he was
for several years a captive, was taken to the lower
Mississippi and returned to his family after his
strange and eventful wanderings. ‘The Sallings ap-
pear to have been the first settlers upon the waters
of the James River above the Blue Ridge. Not long
after John Salling had made his tour of exploration
with Morlin, two strangers from Britain, John Lewis
and John Mackey, came to Williamsburg, where as
tradition relates they heard Salling’s story with ad-
miration. They heard of a broad valley beyond the
Blue Mountains, a variegated region of hills and vales,
watered by clear streams; its soil fertile, its lower
grounds covered only with shrubbery, and a_ rich
herbage grazed by herds of buffalo, and its hills
crowned with forests—a land of beauty, for the most
part as yet untouched by the hand of man, and offer-
ing unbought homes and easy subsistence to all who
had the enterprise to scale the mountain barrier, by
which it had been so long concealed from the colon-
ists. Charmed with the description, they came to the
valley and with their own eyes saw that the report
was true. They determined, therefore, to settle in
this new Arcadia, and having the whole land before
them where to choose, Lewis selected his residence
near the middle fork of the Shenando, on a creek
which bears his name, near the present town of
Staunton. Mackey went farther up the Middle River
and settled near the Buffalo Gap, a place where the
wild herds were accustomed to pass through the
North Mountain. This was the sort of place that
Mackey loved, for his heart was more delighted with
hunting than with the tame pursuits of agriculture.
Lewis, who was evidently a man of energy and
forethought, obtained authority from the govern-
ment to locate 100,000 acres of land in separate par-
cels, in the vacant country around him. While he
was exploring the country to select good lands Mackey
would frequently accompany him for the pleasure of
hunting the buffalo. The result was, that Mackey
died, as he had lived, a poor hunter; but that Lewis

provided for his family a rich inheritance of lands,
Possessed of this and of the inherent energy of their
founder, the Lewis family afterwards occupied a
distinguished rank among the families of Western
Virginia. ‘

In the spring of the year 1736, Lewis, on a visit to
Williamsburg, met with Benjamin Burden who had
lately come over as agent for Lord Fairfax, proprie-
tor of the Northern Neck. Burden accepted Lewis’
invitation to visit him in his new home in the Val-
ley. He spent several months with his friend and
hunted the buffalo with him and his sons, Samuel and
Andrew. But he was a more provident hunter than
Mackey. ‘The party happened once to take a young
buffalo calf, which Samuel and Andrew Lewis tamed,
and gave to Burden to take with him to Williamsburg.
This sort of animal was unknown in lower Virginia;
the calf would, therefore, be an interesting curiosity
at the seat of government. Burden presented the
shaggy young monster to Governor Gooch. ‘The gov-
ernor was so delighted with this rare pet, and so
pleased with the donor that he promptly entered an
order in, his official book authorizing Benjamin Bur-
den to locate 500,000 acres of land, or any less quan-
tity, on the waters of the Shenando and James Rivers
on the conditions that he should not interfere with
any previous grants, and that within ten years he
should settle at least one hundred families upon the
granted lands. On these conditions he should be
freely entitled to one thousand acres adjacent to ev-
ery house, with the privilege of entering as much
more of the contiguous lands at the rate of one shill-
ing per acre. Burden returned forthwith to Britain
for emigrants, and the next year, 1737, brought over
upwards of a hundred families to settle upon his
granted lands. At this time the spirit of emigration
was particularly rife among the Presbyterians in the
Northern parts of Ireland and Scotland, and in the
adjacent parts of England, Burden’s colonists were
mostly Irish Presbyterians, who, being of Scottish
extraction, were often called Scotch-Irish. A few
of the native Scotch and Northern English were mixed
with the early settlers, but all, or nearly all, of the
same Presbyterian stamp. Among the primitive emi-
grants to Burden’s grant, we meet with the names of
some who have left a numerous posterity, now dis-
persed far and wide, from the, Blue Ridge to the
Mississippi and beyond it; such as Ephriam McDow-
ell, Archibald Alexander, John Patton, Andrew
Moore, Hugh Telford, John Matthews, &c.

The first party was soon joined by others, mostly
of their connections and acquaintances in the mother
country. These again drew others after them and
they all increased and multiplied, until ere the first
generation had passed away the whole land was filled
with them. They then began to send forth the coi-

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

onies to new lands, southward and westward, until
now, there is scarce a county in the Valley of the Mis-
sissippi, where some of their descendants may not be
found.

Although some lands on the upper branches of the
Shenando were not included in Burden’s grant, yet
from the German settlements upwards to the vale of
James River, the population was generally Presby-
terian, so that the whole mass for sixty miles or more
along the Valley was scarcely less homogeneous and
peculiar than the mass of Germans below them.

Few of the old colonists of Virginia migrated to
these parts of the Valley. They lived by the cultiva-
tion of tobacco. ‘Tobacco was the sole staple of their
trade; tobacco was their money; an Arcadian life
among green pastures and herds of cattle had no
charms for them; tobacco was associated with all their
ideas of pleasure and of profit. But how was a hogs-
head of tobacco to be rolled to market through the
rugged defiles of the Blue Ridge? Not until roads
and navigation offered new facilities of trade, and the
Indian weed itself lost some of its importance did the
Valley cease to repel settlers from the lowlands of
Virginia. Hence the mixture of heterogeneous ele-
ments in the population, has never, until lately, been
sufficient to vary the true blue hue of their primitive
Scotch-Irish Presbyterianism.

When, in addition to the names before mentioned,
we give others of the more numerous and influential
families, long settled on Burden’s grant—the Pres-
tons, the Paxtons, the Pattons, the Pattersons, the
Lyles, the Grigsbys, the Stuarts, the Crawfords, the
Campbells, the McCampbells, the McClungs, the Mc-
Clures, the McCues, the McKees, the McCowns, &c.,
no one acquainted with the race that imbibed the in-
domitable spirit of John Knox, can fail to recognize
the relationship.

One who is of a different race may be permitted to
speak freely of their characteristics.

They had no sooner found a home in the wilder-
ness, than they betook themselves to clearing fields,
building houses, and planting orchards, like men who
felt themselves now settled and were disposed to cul-
tivate the arts of civilized life. Few of them ran wild
in the forest, or joined the band of white hunters,
who formed the connecting link between the savage
aborigines and the civilized tillers of the soil.

They showed less disposition than the English col-
Onists to engage in traffic and speculative enterprises.
Without being dull or phlegmatic, they were sober
and thoughtful, keeping the native energy of their
feelings under restraint, and therefore capable, when
exigencies arose, of calling forth exertions as strenu-
ous and persevering as the occasion might require.

In their devotion to civil liberty, they differed not
trom the majority of their fellow-colonists. Their

circumstances in a new country, planted by them-
selves, far remote from the metropolitan government,
and even the air of the wild mountains which they
breathed, fostered and strengthened their ancestral
spirit of freedom.

As Presbyterians, neither they nor their forefathers
would submit to an ecclesiastical hierarchy, and their
detestation of civil tyranny descended to them from
the Covenanters of Scotland. Hence, in the dispute
between the colonies and the mother country, the
Presbyterians of the Valley, and indeed throughout
the colonies, were almost unanimously Whigs of the
firmest and most unconquerable spirit. Those of our
mountains were amongst the bravest and most eftec-
tive militia, when called into the field. General Wash-
ington, in the darkest days of the Revolutionary strug-
gle, expressed his confidence in their indomitable
spirit—when he said that if all other resources should
fail, he might yet repair with a single standard to
West Augusta, and rally a band of patriots, who
would meet the enemy at the Blue Ridge, and there
establish the boundary of a free empire in the West.
This saying of the Father of his Country has been
variously reported, but we have no reason to doubt
that he did in some form declare his belief that in the
last resort he could yet gather a force in Western
Virginia which the victorious armies of Britain could
not subdue.

Another characteristic of these people was_ their
stiff Calvanistic, or as some would call it, Puritanicai
morality. Founded on religious principle, this moral-
ity was sober, firm and consistent, though in some of
its aspects too stern to be altogether winning, and
often unadorned by that refinement of manners which
imparts a charm to the exercise of virtue in the com-
mon intercourse of life. But much of their austerity
should be forgiven, in consideration of the precious
substance of virtue within it. Their moral character
was a rough diamond, but it was nevertheless a dia-
mond which would brighten most under the hardest
rubs.

The root of their morality was, as we have inti-
mated, religious principle, deeply grounded by educa-
tion, and nurtured by constant attendance on religi-
ous exercises.

No sooner had they provided necessary food and
shelter for their families, than they began to provide
also for the decent worship of God. They built
churches and called pastors to the full extent of their
ability. ‘Their pastors were either from the old coun-
try or from the Scotch-Irish settlements in Pennsyl-
vania, from which some families from the same stock
migrated to this part of Virginia. While their set-
tlements were sparse their churches were necessarily
few and far asunder. Consequently some families
had to go an inconvenient distance to church. Nev-

34

ertheless they went, male and female, old and young,
on horses—some of them ten or even fifteen miles to
the house of God regularly on the Lord’s day. These
were the right sort of people to found a common-
wealth that should stand the wear and tear of a hun-
dred ages.

Some of the churches built by the first generation
are yet standing, substantial monuments of their pi-
ous zeal. They are constructed of the solid, imperish-
able limestone of the Valley. Others have been re-
placed by larger and fairer, but less venerable struc-
tures of brick. In building some of the primitive
stone churches, before roads, wagons, and saw-mills
could facilitate the collection and preparation of ma-
terials, they had to resort to some rather singular
modes of conveyance. The stone lay convenient, the
beams of timber could be dragged upon the ground
by teams of horses, but sand for mortar could be
found only about the beds of rivers that flowed out
of the sandstone mountains. The (New) Providence
congregation packed all the sand used in the walls of
their churches from a place six miles distant, sack by
sack, on the backs of horses. And what is now al-
most increditable, the fair wives and daughters of the
congregation undertook this part of the work, while
the men labored at the stone and timber. ‘The fact
will appear less miraculous when we consider that
neither negro-slavery nor the false refinements of
wealth and fashion had yet invaded this land of green
valleys. Let not the great-granddaughters of these
women blush for them, however deeply they might
blush to be themselves found employed in such rough
and useful labor. For ourselves we admire the con-
duct of these females; it was not only excusable, not
only praiseworthy, it was almost, if not quite, heroic.
It takes Spartan mothers to rear Spartan men. These
were among the women, whose sons and grandsons
sustained the confidence of Washington in the most
disastrous period of the Revolutionary War. But the
times have changed, our free mountain air has become
tainted; the labor of our fields is done in great part
by fettered hands; our manners have become more re-
fined than our morals, and instead of the sturdy but
intelligent simplicity that once reigned through all the
land, a half savage ignorance has grown up in its
nooks and dells, while in the open country a mixed
population shows much that is excellent, but upon the
whole a failing spirit of energetic industry and en-
terprise. But let us return to the patriarchal times of
this Presbyterian population.

Their social intercourse was chiefly religious.
When the Lord’s Supper was administered in a
church, the services usually began on a Friday and
continued four days; a plurality of ministers was
present and the people flocked to the place from all
the country round; those who lived near giving hos-

yy SY

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ss
>.

pitable entertainment to those from a_ greater dis-
tance.

one in the spring and one in the autumn.

of the country.

But except these solemn festivals and the weekly ;

 

It was customary to have two of these sacra
mental meetings annually in each pastoral charge, — 4
The meet- —
ings of the Presbytery, which circulated through the a
principal churches, drew together a large concourse, “a
and were celebrated as the chief religious festivals ©

meetings at church, the families of the country had

little social intercourse.

distant relations;
tended by considerable parties.

in the country, and as to dancing it was a prohibited
amusement. Nothing was known of the gay amuse-
ments common in lower Virginia. Dinner parties,

balls, cards, horse-racing and all such things were

either despised as vanities or loathed as abominations.
In this primitive society, there were few if any,
roistering blades, broken down gentlemen, gamblers,

spend-thrifts, or indeed any of the seed of the Cay-
Such characters could not flourish among
them. Had any of them strayed into this sober-

aliers.

minded community they would have found them-
selves sadly out of their element, among the seed of
the Covenanters, yet staunch for the most part in
their hereditary manners and principles, though
softened by ages of peaceful liberty. Yet, some of
these people did after the first age, become dissipated,

The young people would —
sometimes visit their neighbors’ houses, or their more *
and weddings were sometimes at- _
Then there was a
supper of the best, talking, and sometimes a few in-
nocent country sports; but as to wine, there was none

idle, merry fellows—for I have seen such of them a
in my boyhood—but then it was after the Revolu-

tionary War, which corrupted the morals of the

whole country and generally out of the Valley, about —

the frontiers, where such characters were common.

The education of their children was one of the
most important features of domestic policy among
the old Presbyterians of the Valley. Common schools
arose among them as soon as the state of the popula-
tion admitted of them. But some considerable time

necessarily elapsed before schools of a higher order
About the year 1772, thirty-four —

could be sustained.
years after the settlements first began, private teach-
ers are reported to have commenced in two or three
places to instruct pupils in the elements of classical
learning. But these were transient efforts, and re-
sulted in nothing more than to prepare the way for a
permanent academy which was established a few
years later, through the agency of the Presbytery.

(To Be Continued)

 

Lidel Peck, ’23, is busy selling bonds in San Fran-

isco.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Curityba, October 20, 1925.
Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc.
Lexington, Va.
Gentlemen :

| have the pleasure to tell you that I have ordered
the Bank of London and South America, Ltd., to pay
you at Lexington, Va., the amount of $5.50, in order
to cover the payment of one copy of The W. & L.
Alumni and Service Record as well as one year sub-
scription of The Alumni Magazine.

I am always glad to have news from “Old W. &
L..,” and really I feel very happy when I have the
chance to receive The Alumni Magazine down here
and so read it throughout and find out how things
are running over there.

Also, I will be glad to get in touch with the old
good friends of W. & L., and give them any informa-
tion they want to know about South America and es-
pecially of Brazil. The same pleasure I will have to-
wards the new students.

Please remember me to Dr. Easter as well as to all
the professors of W. & L.

With my best wishes for the prosperity of ‘The
Alumni Magazine and W. & L., I remain,

Yours very truly,
Gaston Chaves,

9

 

Washington & Lee University,
Alumni, Incorporated,
Lexington, Va.
Attention: Mr. Kemp.
Dear Sir:

Attached find my check for $2.00 renewing my
subscription to The Alumni Magazine, also your note
which I have filled out. ;

I wish to compliment you on The Alumni Maga-
zine, and assure you that I enjoy receiving it very
much indeed.

With very best personal regards, I am

Most truly yours,
S. Bernie Harper, ’12.
Ft, Smith, Ark.

November 23, 1925.
Washington & Lee Alumni Magazine,
Verbon E. Kemp, Secty.,
Lexington, Va.

Dear Sir:

The Alumni Magazine is great, especially in its ef-
forts to keep alumni news, write-ups of college ac-
tivities, athletics, etc., before W. & L. alumni.

Enclosed find N. Y. exchange for $2.00 for which
Please renew my subscription for another year.

Yours for Washington and Lee,

B. Palmer Orr, ’20.

35

WORK ON ALUMNI DIRECTORY
PROGRESSING

Since the disastrous fire which destroyed the plant
of the printers publishing the Alumni Directory, the
work has been taken up by the Michie Company,
printers, of Charlottesville, Virginia.

Inasmuch as considerable delay had already been
experienced in the publication of this volume, the ed-
iiors felt that it would be advisable to revise much oi
the copy at this time in an effort to produce a more
accurate and complete volume. A proof copy from
the record of each alumnus was sent to him for cor-
rection or approval. ‘This has added to the delay.

However, a majority of the copy is now ready for
the printer. The press work should be completed be-
fore the end of February. This time must be allowed
in order for the Alumni office to complete the mass
of proof reading, which of necessity must be repeated,
although that phase of work had been completed be-
fore the printing plant fire.

Under the new printing contract, the Directory
will contain all of the previously advertised features,
but will be more richly bound and more accurate.

The editors of the Directory are particulary grate-
‘ul for the kind expressions that have come from the
majority of the subscribers. Only two subscriptions
were cancelled. Several Alumni volunteered to pay
an additional assessment if any additional expense
had been incurred. Others voiced an understanding
appreciation of the difficulties under which the Alumni
office was laboring. In most cases a continued leni-
ence was kindly expressed.

In compiling the first complete catalogue and Ga-
zetter of Washington and Lee Alumni since 1878, the
difficulties have been great and the obstacles numer-
ous. Therefore, the, sympathetic understanding of
these facts by the subscribers and other interested
Alumni is more deeply appreciated.

Copies of the Directory may still be reserved upon
advance payment of the previously advertised price

of $3.50.

 

FIVE OUT OF SEVEN PASS BAR

Five out of seven Washington and Lee men who
took the State Bar examination in Richmond the first
week in December were successful. Only fifty-nine
cut of a total of 141 who stood the examination
passed. Of this number, two were white women and,
for the first time in the history of the state, a colored
woman passed, I,. Marion Poe, of Washington City.
The Washington and Lee men who passed were
Marion L,. Bergman, B. E. Estes, Raymond M. Flesh-
inan, Kdwin G. Hunley and Charles C. Lee.

 

Eugene Womeldorff, ’17, is with the Watkins Mo-
~Company in El Paso, Texas.

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

EDITORIAL PARAGRAPHS

Under the head of “Following General Lee’s Ex-
ample,” on page 19 of this issue, President Henry
Louis Smith strikes a resounding note for practical
education and definitely allies himself with the sanely
progressive educational trend of today. His. state-
ments are more significant when reviewed in the light
of his own scholarly classical education and his ac-
ademic experience and environment since entering the
“World University of Practical Life.”

In a conversation with the Editor, Honorable John
W. Davis, "92, recently said, “The Alumni Magazine
is one of the few periodicals that I read.” Yet we
know that the Magazine has no particular literary
value. Mr. Davis and the many other interested
Alumni read it because it contains news of old and
sometimes forgotten friends, because it tells of the
University and its progress, and because it brings back
the golden memories of their own college days. A
subscription to the Alumni Magazine is a good tonic!

Speaking of Mr. Davis, he is undoubtedly one of
the busiest men in America today. His services are
in greater demand than those of any other lawyer.
Yet he finds time—he is glad to take time—for at-
tention to the needs of Washington and Lee. He is
now serving as Chairman of a special Alumni Fi-
nance Committee in New York. He is undertaking
to interest philanthropic men in the financial needs of
Washington and Lee. It would be advantageous to
form similar committees under the leadership of able
Alumni in every large city.

January 19th is the time set for Alumni in all sec-
tions of the country to get together. In many cases
this issue of the Magazine will not reach the Alumni
by that time. However, where possible, an enthusi-
astic effort should be made in every Alumni center
to arrange an Alumni meeting, first for the purpose
of organizing an active Alumni Chapter if none ex-
ists and in every case to celebrate the birthday of
Robert EK. Lee with a rejuvenation of the Washing-
ton and Lee spirit.

With the New Year the Alumni, Incorporated, goes
forward with the goal of its new program more nearly
realized. ‘That program is, 1—The publication of a
live and interesting periodical devoted exclusively to
the Alumni and former students of Washington and
Lee; 2—The compilation and publication of a com-
plete Alumni Directory; 3—The organization of ef-
ficient Alumni Chapters in every city where there are
sufficient numbers. The present degree of success is
due to the active encouragement from the ‘Trustees

of the Alumni, Incorporated, the sympathetic and
Iiberal support of the University administration and
the loyal co-operation given by the mass of individ-
val Alumni.

“COLLEGE HUMOR” CONTAINS STORY
ON LIFE AT W. & L.

Washington and Lee is the scene for another ar-
ticle in “College Humor.” ‘This article appeared in
the December issue of this publication. The article
is in the section entitled “In My Day,” which is a
portion of the magazine devoted to reminiscences of
college graduates. The story was written by Will
Jenkins, Washington and Lee, ’09. Jenkins tells how
a student in his class was accidentally hypnotised by
one of his fellow students, and of the trouble and ex-
citement which followed. ‘There seems to have been
a complex for hypnotism in this school, as this is the
third article we have seen’ concerning the terrors of
hypnotism to Washington and Lee students.

 

Wise, Va.
January 4, 1926.
The Alumni Magazine,
l.exington, Virginia.

Gentlemen :

Some few weeks ago I received a copy of the Au-
gust number of the Alumni Magazine and it is need-
less to say that I enjoyed reading it immensely. I
wonder if it would be possible for me to secure all
of these magazines beginning with your first copy
cown to the present time, and if so, please advise me
the amount necessary to send and I shall be very glad
to forward you a check for same at once. I feel that
I have missed a great deal by not subscribing for the
tnagazine earlier, but really did not know that such
& magazine was being published until I received the
August number hereinabove referred to. If it is im-
possible to get the back numbers, then I shall want to
subscribe for the Alumni Magazine beginning with
your next number.

Yours very truly,
H. J. Kiser, 716.

 

Lexington, Va—Dr. Solomon Schaefer, of Col-
orado Springs, Colorado, formally represented Wash-
ington and Lee University at the inauguration ©
of Charles C. Mierow as president of Colorado Col-
lege on December 5th.

An invitation to attend the event was received
by President Henry Louis Smith, of Washington and
Lee, but owing to the distafce and previous engage-
ments it was impossible for him to attend. Dr.
Schaefer was graduated from Washington and Lee in
1904 with the B. A. degree.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

Joseph John Allen, ’70, writes us that he is liv-
ing a life of profitable idleness. He also says, “The
last marriage I attended was that of myself, it being
my second marriage which occurred June 1, 1915,
when I attended the Richmond Reunion as the only
Confederate Veteran on a bridal tour with Miss Helen
Heaton as my bride, and now she is my happy, handy,
handsome, hustling, humming Helen.”

Dr. William E. Dold, ’76, of New York City,
who was a resident of Lexington in his early days,
was a visitor in Lexington last month.

Dr. A. C. Herff, ’77, has been a practicing physi-
cian in San Antonio since 1881.

George Hill, ’77, of Baton Rouge, La., has during
the past few years retired from his occupation as
sugar planter, in which business he has been engaged
for forty years. For twenty years he has been a
member of the Board of Supervisors of the Louis-
iana State University, and a Director of The Bank
of Baton Rouge for about thirty years.

John W. Johnson, ’78, of Alderson, West Virginia,
is now building “The Cavalier,” a new, six story ho-
tel, which will be the finest in the state for all towns
in Alderson’s class. The hotel symbolizes the life
and character of Mr. Johnson’s favorite military fig-
ure, General J. E. B. Stuart.

Mr. Walter L. McCorkle, 78, of New York City,
accompanied by his son, Robert C. McCorkle, recently
spent the week-end with his brother, Dr. Emmett W.
McCorkle, at Rockbridge Baths.

Ernest Steves, ’74-’78, has been in the lumber and
building material business in San Antonio, Texas,
since 1878. He was elected president of the Alamo
National Bank of that city three years ago. He still
retains his interest in the firm of Ed Steves & Sons,
a co-partnership of Albert and Ernest Steves.

Mr. F. Howard Campbell, ’86-’87, of Lewisburg,
a former Lexington man, was among those who at-
tended the Virginia game on November 7th. He was
the guest of his brother, Malcolm D, Campbell. His
son, Howard Campbell, Jr., accompanied him.

Garrett Bucker Wall, ’89, is Vice-President of the
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, Richmond,
Virginia. His son, Garrett B. Wall, Jr., graduated
In the Class of 1925 at Princeton, and is now in Grad-
uate School studying Architecture.

_Dr. D. H. Huffaker, 91, is a_ practicing physi-
clan in El Paso, Texas.

Dr. Hugh White, 95, living in El Paso, Texas, 1s
@ physician and member of the City Board of Health.

Mr. Charles Funkhouser, 92, a former Lexington
boy, was recently in the community. He has _ for
twenty-three years held a position with the Balti-
more Sun in Baltimore. He was returning there after
a short vacation spent in Florida.

37

 

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

‘Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

WEINBERG’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

COLLEGE TO GET OLD PAPER ASKING
CHRISTMAS HOLIDAY

Petition to Robert E. Lee Never Reached President
of Ancient School

Warrenton, Va., Dec. 31 (Special)—An old paper,
the property of Colonel Joe Lane Stern, of Richmond,
but soon to be presented by him to Washington and
!.ee University, has brought to light a novel request
made by the students of what was then Washington
College, Lexington, for. a Christmas vacation.

The paper. was drawn up and signed by 190 stu-
dents, and addressed to the president, General Robert
FE. Lee. It was posted on a bulletin board, but was
not allowed by the faculty to reach General Lee.
Colonel Stern, then a student and a signer of the pa-
ver, took it down and kept it.

Among the names on the petition of interest to this
section are, J. M. Ambler, Fauquier County; James
Jeff Green, Rappahannock County; Edmund Berke-
ley, Loudoun County; G. B. Gibson, Fauquier
County; H. M. Nelson, Clark County, and J. Ledd,
Rappahannock County. .

 

LOCAL ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS
(Continued from Page. 20)
South Carolina.

D. C. Heywood, ’85, 101 Palmetto Bldg., Columbia.
Simeon Hyde, 13, 55 Broad Street, Charleston.

Tennessee.
*Edward E. Brown, °10, Hamilton Bank Bldg.,
Chattanooga.
*A. LL. Dabney, ’92, Columbian Tower Bldg.,
Memphis.

Dempsey Weaver, 95, 178 2nd Ave., Nashville.

Texas.
John L. Young, 95, American Exchange Bank
Bldg., Dallas.
J. W. Garrow, 99, Courtland Place, Houston.
Albert Steves, Jr., 06, Steves Sash & Door Co.,
San Antonio.
W. K. Ramsey, ’07, 903-4 Mills Bldg., El Paso.
Virginia,
*James M. Barker, ’11, 603 Spruce Street, Bristol.
Rucker Penn, ’85, Pemburton & Penn, Danville.
*Thomas W. Shelton, ’92, Bank of Commerce
Bldg., Norfolk.
*F. W. McWane, ‘14, Lynchburg Foundry Co.,
Lynchburg.
*C, W. McNulty, 02, Shenandoah Life Bldg., Roa-
noke.
*George E. Haw, 04, Travelers Bldg., Richmond.
Hugh B. Sproul, 92, Staunton. |
Thomas R. Cather, ‘08, Atty., Winchester,

-Withy & Company, Ltd., who have removed their of-

  
 
 
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
 
 
  

West Virginia.
Luther G. Scott,
Bluefield. a
Howard Robinson, °13, Goff Bldg., Clarksburg, -
W. D. Payne, 90, Kanawha Valley Bank Bldg
Charleston. x
Phillip P. Gibson,
Huntington. 2
Judge J. M. Woods, ’92, 531 W. Burke St Pet
Martinsburg. 4

‘08, 402 Comm’! Bank Bldg

15, Robeson-Pulchard Bldg.

 

“Check for $2.00, subscription to ALUMNI Mag
AZINE, is enclosed. Congratulations on your su
cess with the publication.”

“William R. Vance,
Yale Law School,
New Haven, Conn.”

 

PERSONALS 5

Herbert Fitzpatrick, ’92, is General Counsel of th ¢
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Company, in Richmond,
Virginia.

S. Heth Tyler, 96, who is practicing law in Nor- ,
folk, Virginia, is Mayor of that city and also president
of the City Council. He is an Elder in the Second
Presbyterian Church, where he also teaches the men’s
Bible class. 3

W. Ross McCain, ’97, now holds the highly respo
sible position of Secretary of the Aetna Insure
Company of Hartford, Connecticut. =

Charles H. Phinizy, 98, is President of the
Georgia Railroad Bank, of Augusta, Georgia. 4

Mr. Harry T. Carmichael, ’99, of Kyrock, Ken-
tucky, who was reared in Lexington, was one of the
alumni of Washington and Lee attending the Vitae
ginia game. a
Volney Brown, ’00, is practicing law in El Pas

Texas.
L. R. Holmes, ‘00, is associated with the Furness,

fices to 6th and Chestnut Streets, Philadelphia, =
Joshua E. Senft, ’00, is practicing law in Columbia,
Pa.
Francis ‘T. Reeves, 03, formerly mayor of the Ci y
of Waterbury, Connecticut, is now one of the lez d-
ers of the Bar of that city. “a
J. S. Grasty, 04, who was at one time Profes
of Mining Geology at W. & L., is at the Universi
Virginia, engaged in the investigation of fire clay ¢ ad
coal occurrences in Western Pennsylvania. Upot 1
completion of this work, he will go to Louisiz
where he represents important interests in the vod
tion of gas and gasoline, and the distribution of the |
former to public utilities.
H. R. Horne, Jr., ’04, is Vice-President of H. R

ja

Horne Drug Company, in Fayetteville, N. C. a

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

PERSONALS

|. W. Kirkpatrick, ’04, has adopted the sure> road
to prosperity, selling Fords in El Paso, Texas.

Solomon W. Schaefer, 04, who graduated in med-
icine at Johns Hopkins in 1909, is now a tuberculosis
specialist in Colorado Springs, Colorado. He spent
last Spring in Europe, studying in Vienna, Switzer-
land, Paris and London.

Charles S. Nichols, ex ’05, is practicing law in
Reno, Nevada.

Walter C. Preston, ’15, since taking his Ph.D. in
Chemistry at Johns Hopkins in 1923, has been with
Proctor and Gamble Company, of Ivorydale, Ohio,
in the capacity of research chemist. He writes us that
Ivory soap is still 99 44/100 per cent pure.

B. J. Mayer, ’06, is a member of the law firm oi
Lovejoy & Mayer of La Grange, Georgia. He mar-
ried Miss Johnson of West Point, Georgia, and they
‘have two children.

R. A. Crews, ’07, is practicing law in El Paso,
Texas. The distressing news has been recently re-
ported to us that though nicknamed “Curley” when
at College, he is now as bald as the day he came.

Mr. C. Mercer McCrum, ’07, of Birmingham, Al-
abama, was in Lexington for the funeral of his uncle,
Captain J. William Gilmore, which took place on
November Ist.

\V. Kk. Ramsey, ’07, is in the real estate business at
El Paso, Texas, “where sunshine spends the winter.”
Added to his other responsibilities is that of Com-
missioner of Fire, Police and Health in the City
Council, and his office as Mayor pro tem.

Julian S$. Gravely, 08, now a prominent official of
The Winchester Repeating Arms Company, of New
Haven, Connecticut, has recently built a beautiful
new home at 29 Blake Avenue.

George West Diehl, 13, President of the Concord
State College, of Athens, West Virginia, is busily
engaged in the educational work and in supplying va-
rious vacant pulpits. His new book, “The Triangle
of Life,” was published in December. It is an in-
spirational volume.

5. Bernie Harper, ’13, is manager of the Yantis-
Harper Company of Fort Smith, Arkansas.

Mr. Wallace Ruff, ’13, who has been in Miami,
Florida, since last July, recently returned to his old
ome in Lexington. He has been actively employed
in Miami, where he is wonderfully impressed with
developments, but is as yet undecided as to whether
he will permanently locate there.

Dr. William M. Brown, ’14, represented the local

Masonic chapter at the meeting of the Grand Lodge |

of the Royal Arch Masons of Virginia held recently
in Richmond, Virginia.

Carlton D. Dethlefsen, ex ’15, devotes most of his
law practise to Insurance Company’s legal work in
San Francisco. He is a member of the Shriners,
Elks, Commonwealth Club and the American Legion.

Mr. and Mrs. E. Southard Shields, 05, Farmville,

were in Lexington for the Virginia game on No-
vember 7th.

Herbert G. Peters, ’17, is practising law with the
firm of Peters, Lavinder & Peters, of Bristol, Vir-
ginia.

* Paul Clark, ’19, is the local agent for the Chevrolet
Motor Company at Colorado Springs, Colorado.

B. Palmer Orr, ’20, writes us that he is still with
the Orr Fruit Company of New Orleans, in their
new offices at 401 Queen and Crescent Building. He
says that he hasn’t found the right girl—yet! But,
in time, my boy, in time. The right girl can’t be
found too quickly.

Sherman H. Ballard, ’21, engaged in the practice
of law in Charleston, West Virginia, is the proud
father of twin boys.

J. Dean Owens, ’21, practicing law in Rome,
Georgia, writes us that he now occupies his time try-
ing to persuade the Georgia Courts that “Boss”
Moreland was right.

Honorable E. P. Alderson, ’22, of Summerville,
West Virginia, who is called the “baby” Senator of
the West Virginia Senate, was a spectator at the Vir-
ginia game.

John Clay Hoover, ’22, is still Superintendent of
Schools of Webster County, West Virginia.

Dick Feamster, ’23, is now in the real estate busi-
ness in Alderson, West Virginia. He tells us that
during the past summer he toured the Northwest to
Seattle and returned to West Virginia through Can-
ada, stopping at Victoria, Vancouver, Lake Louise
and Montreal. He was also in Lexington on Novem-
ber 7th to witness the Virginia game.

Harry A. Hall, ’23, is practicing law with the firm
of Hall, Ballard, Snyder and Hall in Charleston,
West Virginia.

-__

As this issue of the MAGAzINE goes to press news
of the death of Phineas C. Smith, ’15, has just been
received from Clarksburg, W. Va. His body was
found frozen in the ice of the West Fork river at
Haywood, W. Va. on Jan. 1, 1926. Death resulted
from drowning. Mr. Smith was 32 years of age, a
veteran of the World War and a member of the class
of 1915 at Washington and Lee. He was employed
as a bank clerk in Clarksburg, W. Va. at the time of
death. After disappearing Wednesday, Dec. 30, sus-
picion of foul play was held by alarmed friends and
relatives until the discovery of the body Saturday.

40 THE ALUMNI

 

 

STOP AND GAS WITH US
LEE HIGHWAY FILLING STATIONS

FOUR STATIONS:
No. 1—Staunton Road
No. 2—Clifton Forge Road
No. 3—Roanoke Road
No. 4—Greenville, Va.

“Service with a Smile’’

ORDER YOUR COPY NOW!
The Alumni Directory—Sept. 15—$3.50
The Alumni Magazine—one year—$2.00

Check or money order payable to the
Alumni, Inc., should be sent to Drawer 897,
Lexington, Va.

COBB'S PRESSING SHOP

Dry Cleaning

PRESSING DYEING

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY'S

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

 

MAGAZINE

 

Sratur “Tom” SAWYER AND HUCKLEBERRY FINN

Statue of Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn. recently
given to the city of Hannibal, Mo., by Geo. A. Mahan,
69.

 

PATRONIZE OUR ADVERTISERS

The following firms help to make the ALUMNI

MAGAZINE possible. Patronize them when possible,

and in doing so mention the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

The Corner, Inc., Lexington, Va.

Boley’s Book Store, Lexington, Va.

Subway Kitchen, Lexington, Va.

Rockbridge County News, Lexington, Va.

Weinberg’s, Lexington, Va.

Lexington Pool Co., Lexington, Va.

Graham & Father, Lexington, Va.

Lee Highway Filling Station, Lexington, Va.

Cobbs Pressing Shop, Lexington, Va.

McCoy’s Grocery, Lexington, Va.

McCrum’s, Inc., Lexington, Va.

Rockbridge Motor Co., Lexington, Va.

Michie Printing Co., Charlottesville, Va.

Surber-Arundale Co., Charlottesville, Va.

Locher & Co., Inc., Glasgow, Va.

Furness-Withy Co., Ltd., New York City.

Towns Bus Line, Harrisonburg, Va.

Mail orders for advertised merchandise directed
to any of the above firms will receive prompt and sat-
isfactory attention. Other business relations between
alumni and firms advertising in the ALUMN1 MAG-
AZINE are solicited.

 

 

‘he

a i

i iu 3,

 

