ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

FE. C. Carrrey, President VeRBON E. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GraHAM, Jr., Treasurer Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15. 1924.

PAGE PAGE
The Year—A Thumb Nail Summary .......... 5 Faculty—Virginia Governor? Farm Boy ....23-25
Administration — Secretary’s Resignation—Presi- Alumni—News and Sketches ................ 26-37

dent's Sumitiity soci es sevens vores 6-8 ;
Memories of College Days—J. R. Winchester, ’74

Resolutions on President’s Retirement .......... ARE Ee ate > oie oh oy a ss «Cain ca 38-40
Commencement 1929—Social and Official...... 12-14 Letters—About This and That .............. 41-43
Student Body—Campus Affairs .............. 15-17 Commencement Address—By President Smith. .44-46
Athletics—Reviews and Schedules ............ 18-20 Personals—Incidents of Note ................ 47-51
Lexington—Today and Yesterday ............ 21-22 Obituary— Marriages—Births ................52-53

 

 

BOL. o BOOK  SPane

Special: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON

(Prices on application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

‘ev,
SKA

Sn

A

—

sy PON "used

- FF ee Ph

 

 

“The Year”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

a: V

THE YEAR

President Henry Louis Smith whose _ retirement
was to become effective July 1, 1929,: was asked by
the Board of Trustees to continue in office until Jan.
1, 1930. He accepted.

The Board also invited Dr. Smith to deliver the
Commencement address to the 1929 graduates.

Unauthorized reports that Virginia Governor H.
F. Byrd had been offered, and had refused, the
presidency of Washington and Lee were published
in Richmond, Va., newspapers.

The Generals’ track-team won four out of five
track meets, placed second in the State track meet,
fourth in the Southern Conference meet; broke
many local records; proved to be the most outstand-
ing track and field aggregation produced by able
Coach Fletcher in many a season.

Baseballers fared badly; dropped every Southern
conference engagement, stood at the bottom in the
‘T'ri-State College League; suffered from a complete
lack of material.

Alumni Secretary Verbon E. Kemp, accepted the
Managing Directorship of the Charlottesville, Va.,
Chamber of Commerce, resigned as Executive and
Alumni Secretary of Washington and Lee, effective
August 1, 1929. ;

Southern Prep and High School publication edi-
tors, managers and advisers came to Lexington for
a convention under the auspices of the Washington
and Lee department of Journalism, were instructed,
adjudged, banquetted.

Grim tragedy; the deaths of students W. A.
Plummer and I. H. Elias, the serious injuries to
students B. C. Eastwood and V. C. Jones in an auto-
mobile accident, cast a pall of gloom over the campus,
brought the question of student ownership and
operation of automobiles to clearer focus.

The name of Dr. W. M. Brown, professor of
Iducation and Psychology, was prominently men-
tioned as a coalition Republican—anti-Smith Demo-
crat candidate for the governorship of Virginia.

Examinations loomed; students surviving the mid
year’s examinations and the year’s grind went into
the home-stretch toward the glowingly golden goal
of Finals.

Commencement 1929 included the four regular
formal dances starting Friday, May 31, the annual
boat crew races Saturday, June 4, instead of Mon-
day as heretofore; a Baccalaureate sermon by Dr.
George Stoves, Nashville, Tenn., Methodist, Sunday

JULY, 1929

No. 3

morning in the Lee Chapel; a seated luncheon for
visiting alumni in the Carnegie Library, Monday,
June 3, the President’s reception and Senior-Alumni
Ball Monday night; Commencement exercises and
address by retiring President Smith, Tuesday morn-
ing, the Final Ball Tuesday night.

Presentation of a handsome silver service from
alumni and faculty, of resolutions of ‘the University
Board of Trustees, to retiring President Henry Louis
Smith featured Commencement.

John W. Davis, 92, expressed the most generally
accepted view of Washington and Lee’s future edu-
cational policy yet crystalized, at the annual but un-
usual alumni luncheon.

University trustees met, elected George L. Peery,
‘97, of Tazewell, Va.; made no definite selection of
Dr. Smith’s successor; viewed the problem of automo-
bile ownership and operation by Washington and Lee
students.

Plans for further campus improvements were an-
nounced; will be put in effect during the summer
vacation months under the direction of tireless en-
gineering Professor Hale Houston, 795.

Variable, elastic, staid and conservative Lexing-
ton, faced a heated municipal election, a cat scandal,
a gorging influx of visitors for W. & L. and V. M.
[. Finals, the hectic, colorful, riotous flow of youth
which is Finals; an exodus and contraction to the
quiet peace and charm of a lazy summer.

 

 

 

 

Pres. Henry Louis SMITH

Silver Service for Services

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ADMINISTRATION

PRESIDENT CONTINUES:

Failing to elect a new president the University
Joard of ‘Trustees urgently requested “President
Henry Louis Smith to continue in that position un-
til January 1, 1930. Dr. Smith graciously aban-
doned his personal plans for retirement on June 4th,

and acceded to the Board’s request.

MAN SEEKING:

An office continues to seek a man. Rumors

abound. ‘The well without water spouts “‘inside’’
information. But no official announcement of the
election of the next president of Washington and
lee has yet been made. It is possible that the Board
of Trustees will be ready to announce the elec-
Other-
wise, representatives of the Faculty and the Alumni

tion of Dr. Smith’s successor in October.

Association, Incorporated will continue to assist the
3oard of Trustees in their untiring efforts to locate
the “right man.”

Byrd:

Richmond, Va., newspapers reported without au-
thority that the presidency of Washington and Lee
had been offered to popular, able Virginia Governor
Harry Flood Byrd; that the position had been de-
clined; commented upon the alleged move of Wash-
ington and Lee toward securing a business man and

 

V. E. Kemp

Your Secretary Resigns

 

executive rather than a _ college graduate and a
scholar for the chair once held by West Pointer R
EF. Lee.

If untrue, the Richmond newspapers indulged
It true, the Byrd rumor
was but another break in the faulty W. & J. pub-

licity.

in a mere flight of fancy.

SECRETARY’S RESIGNATION:

Tendered and accepting another position, Alumni
Secretary Verbon E. Kemp presented his resignation,
effective August Ist.

Withdrawing from college in 1920 because of
illness, Mr. Kemp became a Field Secretary in the
Endowment Fund campaign; later Director of the
Journalism Fund campaign; Alumni Secretary in
1924; Executive Secretary to the President in 1926.
As a student he founded and_ organized the
lroubadours,” started the famed “Honor System”
store. As Alumni and Executive Secretary he
founded and edited the ALumMNr MAGAZINE, com-
piled the Alumni Directory of 1926, secured the
Alumni Club building, directed the initial Class
Bridge Fund campaign, supervised collections on
Endowment and Journalism Fund pledges, directed
the appeal for the Burks Memorial Law Professor-
ship. Betimes he directed the financing and con-
struction of the Beta Theta Pi Fraternity house;
now becomes Managing Director of the Charlottes-
ville, Va., Chamber of Commerce.

cer

NEW SECRETARY:

Awaiting the election of the next president of
Washington and Lee, the Alumni Association trustees
elected Stuart Moore, B.L., ’21, of Lexington, to serve
temporarily as Alumni Secretary ; asked retiring Secre-
tary Verbon E. Kemp to continue the editorship of the
ALUMNI Macazrne until a permanent full-time Secre-
tary is chosen.

Stuart Moore, Secretary pro tem, received his A.B.
from Washington and Lee in 1915, served in the En-
gineer Corps during the War, returned to take Law
and graduate in 1921. He has practised Law in Lex-
ington since graduation; became Judge of the Juvenile
and Domestic Relations Court; is a member of the
Lexington Town Council; a Director of the Rock-
bridge National Bank. He married Miss Hilah Pen-
dleton, of Lexington, on November 9, 1927. They
have one daughter.

BACK YARD:

Potentially equal to the spacious green of the
front campus in beauty is the steep slope down to
Wood’s Creek and the railroad at the back. A

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

treatment relating trees and terraces to the flowing
brook and a bowered island below would afford a
unique park, is beyond the present means of the
University treasury; should intrigue someone who
wants to do something distinctive for Washington
and Lee.

PURCHASE:

Students once went to the Henry Street “opera
house” for such entertainment as was afforded, later
paid nickels and dimes to see moving pictures in a
new building on the same site, corner of Main and
Henry Streets. During recent years the building
has been used for a negro pool room and Odd Fel-
lows hall. It was purchased last month by the Uni-
versity for $12,000. This site completes University
holdings on both sides of Henry Street from Main
Street to Memorial Gate and the campus proper,
adds to the developing “Fraternity Park.”

CAMPUS IMPROVEMENTS:

The summer vacation affords opportunity for re-
pair and improvements to the college buildings and
grounds. Each summer for the past few years has
brought about many praiseworthy improvements.
Scheduled for the coming summer is the construc-
tion of curbs, sidewalks and _ parking grounds
around the gymnasium, the construction of addi-
tional walks and driveways. ‘The work will be un-
der the supervision of Prof. Hale (“Uncle Bud”’)
Houston, 95, able, tireless and efficient engineer.

THE HAPPY WARRIOR:

All that a modern university president has to do
is to produce, every few months, a learned paper to
dazzle the countryside, manage the intricate machin-
ery of his ‘several-million-dollar corporation, keep
his army of temperamental, absent-minded, under-
paid professors cheerful and alert, understand what
the university’s archeological expedition is doing in
southeastern Abyssinia and raise money for it, de-
liver occasional uplifting chapel talks to the student
body, attend the ball games, lunch with the rich
alumni, who might give new dormitories or labora-
tories in honor of their favorite maiden aunts, en-
tertain thle visiting English lecturers (and arrange
for the deans to entertain the Americans), keep in
touch with the members of the state legislatures
who are making up the budget for next year, and
with the bright new assemblymen who hope _ to
make the headlines by denouncing frills in educa-
tion, and lecture occasionally to the Norfolk County
Cheese-Makers Co-Operative Association, the Suf-
folk County Grain Exchange, the Wessex Central

Trades and Labor Council, and the Essex W. C. T.
U., as well as the State Chamber of Commerce, the
Steuben Society, and the Veterans of Foreign Wars,
pointing out to each and all how the university
serves every citizen of the state and notably assists

them in their particular tasks and problems.—New
York Herald Tribune.

PRESIDENT’S SUMMARY:
(From his Annual Report to the Board of ‘Trustees)

I herewith submit my general report, with that of
other officers of the university, for the scholastic year
ending March 3lst, 1929, reserving certain specific
recommendations for a later supplementary report.

The Trustees and Faculty:

The lamentable losses of a year ago were continued
by the death, on February 23, 1929, of our loyal and
energetic trustee, Mr. John S. Munce, of Richmond,
who for twenty-eight years had given his consecrated
Christian energy, his remarkable business ability, and
his long experience as an institutional trustee to the
upbuilding and direction of Washington and Lee.

At the fall meeting of the Board on October 11th,
Mr. Wm. McChesney Martin, of St. Louis, Missouri,
was appointed trustee to fill the vacancy then existing.
At the regular meeting of the Board on October
llth, in accordance with an announcement made at a
former meeting, I presented to the Board a communi-
cation requesting that I be allowed to retire when
reaching the age of seventy next summer. ‘This was
granted by the Board with appropriate resolutions
awarding me not only a very liberal retiring annuity
but also a half-year of full salary after retirement.

Historical Summary:

1. The change in the daily scholastic routine, recita-
tions beginning at 8:30 and continuing till 3:30, with
12 :30-1:30 as the lunch hour.

2. The completion and formal opening of the first
floor of the Lee Chapel as a Lee Museum and picture
Gallery.

3. The furnishing and formal opening of the com-
modious Alumni Club Rooms on Washington Street.

4. The repairing and painting of Reid Hall and five
residences on the campus, the furnishing of a sixth
with radiators and a pipe-line and the construction of
a new steam pipe-line to the Graham Dormitory.

5. A parking area, roadways, etc., have been con-
structed east of the Memorial Gateway, new cement
roadways and sidewalks have been laid south of the
Library, and the former hillside roadway from the
Memorial Gate to the Library replaced by a cement
footpath,

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

6. The very handsome memorial footbridge of re-
inforced cement connecting the gymnasium plaza with
the enlarged athletic field across Woods Creek gorge
has been completed.

7. The sixth annual Interscholastic Basketball
Tournament was held March 7-9, and the fourth annual
Convention of the Interscholastic Press Association
held May 10-11.

8. The psychological examination of all new stu-
dents in addition to the usual medical and physical ex-
aminations, their orientation meetings thrice daily dur-
ing the opening week and weekly during the fall term,
and the vocational work of Dr. Brown were all con-
tinued this year with gratifying results.

9. The receipt during the summer and printing in
pamphlet form of the reports of the three outside ex-
perts engaged by the University to examine its cur-
riculum and requirements for degrees.

10. The authorization by the faculty of two Fresh-
man courses recommended by the President, one a
course in American Civilization, the other a Citizen’s
Course in elementary Science.

11. The formal action of the Board of ‘Trustees on
January 19th, approving and authorizing the establish-
ment by the School of Journalism of a regular printing
plant and the issuance of a regular weekly newspaper.

12. During the past year Mr. H. E. Litchford of
Richmond has presented to the University and placed
in the Lee Chapel a very handsome wrought-iron grille
and gates for the statue chamber of the Lee Mauso-
leum, with the Lee coat-of-arms in bronze over the
gates.

13. The past year has seen the enlargement and
practical rebuilding of the Delta Tau Delta fraternity
house on Lee Avenue, the financing and beginning of
the new home of the Alpha Tau Omega fraternity on
their lot on Main Street, and the formal assignment
by the Board of two lots in the park opposite the Me-
morial Gate to the Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Nu
fraternities whose new clubhouses will be built dur-
ing the coming summer.

Alumni Matters:

Our Alumni Secretary, Mr. Verbon Kemp, who is
also Executive Secretary to the President, has recently
changed his quarterly ALUMNI MAGAZINE to a monthly,
and is to be heartily commended for the ably edited
and interesting pamphlet which is enjoyed and appreci-
ated each month by over a thousand regular sub-
scribers. During the past year he has presided over
the Alumni Club-rooms, attended many alumni gather-
ings, and helped organize the alumni as active helpers
of the Trustees in the search for a new president.

His financial work will be taken up under the head of a

Financial Matters.

It is with a deep sense of personal, official, and sa ag
stitutional loss that I must record the resignation of am

Mr. Kemp on April 18th to enter into private busi-
ness. As my right-hand man in our post-bellum en- _
dowment campaign and an active assistant more

recently in raising funds for the School of Journalism,
the Burks Chair, and the Memorial Bridge we have

worked together in closest friendship and harmony %
for ten years and I sincerely hope my successor can e

find a helper equally loyal and efficient.

Financial Affairs:

During the past year, our endowment funds have
been increased as shown in the treasurer’s report by 4
$63,856 actually paid in, by $15,572 in other gifts not
meant for endowment, and by the completion of the _
Memorial Bridge representing an investment of $38,- -
016, thus adding, without including numerous campus _
and building improvements, smaller gifts, or the im-
provement of the athletic field, a total of over $117,-

000 to the university’s property.

It will interest the Board to know that our current
income last year available for operating expenses was

a

$348,000 as compared with less than $100,000 in —

oa
7
va

1911-12.

General Review:

As Mr. Kemp and I are closing our joint financial a

and administrative work at W. & L., I requested him
to compile from his records the total amounts sub-
scribed and paid in since 1912, omitting the still un-
paid Doremus bequest.

His list dated April 1, 1929, including all new gifts,
loan funds, endowed scholarships, etc., makes a total
of $1,906,132 subscribed since 1912, and $1,367,685
actually paid in and added to the equipment or endow-
ments of the institution, not including $100,000 re-
ceived from the Doremus bequest at the death of Mr.
Doremus’ father.

As the value of all university property and all en-

dowments in 1912 was listed as totaling $1,363,371, it
will be seen that the additions made since 1912, ex-
cluding the Doremus bequest, practically equal all be-
quests and donations for buildings and endowments
from its founding till 1912.

The total operating income of 1911-12 from all
sources was less than $100,000. It is this past year
$348,000, while the total invested endowment is now
$1,443,989, as compared with $893,979 in 1912, an in-
crease of over 50 per cent.

The teachers of faculty-rank in 1912 number 17,
with 17 instructors who were not undergraduates,
teaching a student-body of 630. ‘The teachers of

     

<7

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

faculty-rank today number 50, with 6 instructors, five
of whom have post-graduate degrees, teaching a stu-
dent-body of 929.

It is especially gratifying to add that the scholastic
standing of the institution, condemned after official
examination by the U. S. Government report in 1911-
12, is now rated as first-class by every official educa-
tional organization North and South.

Respectfully submitted,

Henry Louis SMITH,
President.

TRUSTEES’ RESOLUTION ON DR. SMITH’S
RETIREMENT:

Following are the resolutions adopted by the board
on the retirement of President Smith and delivered at
Commencement by Trustee J. R. Caskie, ’06:

The Board of Trustees of Washington and Lee
University, having received with deep regret the resig-
nation of Dr. Henry Louis Smith, as president of
the University, and having accepted the same, effec-
tive as of January 1, 1930, in response to his wishes
and desiring to give formal expression to their senti-
ments upon this important event in the history of
the University, do now hereby resolve:

1. That the administration of Dr. Smith, from his
installation in the office of president in 1912, has
been marked by distinguished ability, progressiveness
and efficiency, which have been reflected in the con-
sistent growth and development of the University as
a great educational institution, occupying a position
of leadership among the colleges and universities of
the country.

2. That his Christian character, his scholarly attain-
ments, and his self-sacrificing services, have richly
contributed to the religious and cultural atmosphere
of the whole institution for which it has come to be
increasingly esteemed.

3. That the never flagging zeal and the faithful,
energetic and self-sacrificing devotion displayed by
Dr. Smith, in all that most deeply concerned the Uni-
versity and its welfare, commands the admiration and
has earned the appreciation of all who have its best
interests at heart.

4. That the board acknowledges, with a keen sense
of obligation, the guiding genius and effective work
of Dr. Smith, which have specifically resulted in nu-
merous constructive accomplishments, among which
may be noted: the large increase in the student enroll-
ment, coincident with the elevation of the entrance
requirements, and of the standard of scholarship and
of the character and moral tone of the student body;
the increase in the effective personnel of the faculty,

both in number and in the number per student en-
rolled; the broadening and modernizing of the gen-
eral courses of instruction; the establishment of the
important departments of physical education, public
speaking, auditing and accounting, education and
psychology, the re-establishment of the Lee School
of Journalism, the enlargement and improvement of
the school of Engineering; the cataloguing and im-
provement of the library to comply with modern
standards and making it available for practical and
effective use; the erection of a modern gymnasium,
a chemistry building and a dormitory; and a large
and notable increase in the endowment and _ scholar-
ship funds of the University.

5. That the board expresses its admiration and
appreciation of the unremitting efforts of Dr. Smith
in his courageous crusade against student evils, and
against social perils of the young of our country,
whether at Washington and Lee or elsewhere, and
his unremitting fight by word and pen, in periodicals
and by pamphlets for the moral uplift of the young
people of our nation and for the production of a
higher and better Christian citizenship for the future.

6. The board regrets the loss of Dr. Smith as the
administrative head of our beloved University, the
loss of an intellectual and moral crusader, the loss
of a Christian idealist and enthusiastic worker for
all that is high and best in the development of the
University and its interests, and the loss of an un-
tiring and effective leader whose efforts have been
characterized by devoting and consecration, rein-
forced by ability and ripened experience, and for the
future bespeaks for him an allowable satisfaction,
born of a well deserved consciousness of duty so
nobly and successfully performed as to command the
admiration, respect and high appreciation of those
interested in the University and in Christian char-
acter and accomplishment.

7. That the individual members of the board en-
tertain for Dr. Smith a personal friendship and af-
fection that has ripened and deepened through the
years of tMeir association with him, which associa-
tions they cherish among the rich experiences of their
lives. ,

8. That a copy of these resolutions be spread on
the minutes of the board of trustees, a copy be en-
grossed and forwarded to Dr. Smith, and that copies
be published in such suitable publications as the execu-
tive committee of the board may deem advisable.

W. McC. WHITE

Jas. R. CAsKIE

WiLuiAM A. ANDERSON
Committee.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FACULTY RESOLUTIONS ON THE RESIG-
NATION OF DR. HENRY LOUIS SMITH:

As Dr. Henry Louis Smith has resigned the office
of president of Washington and Lee University to
take effect at the end of the present session, the
Faculty desires to express its appreciation of him as
president and man.

President Smith has devoted his unusual enthusiasm
and optimism to the development of the institution.
He has labored untiringly for its financial and intel-
lectual progress. As a consequence he has added
greatly to the teaching staff of all departments and has
insisted upon character and training as necessary
qualifications for membership in the faculty. In his
whole attitude he has consistently assumed the intel-
lectual and moral freedom of the faculty.

We wish also to attest our deep appreciation of him
as aman. In all official and unofficial relations he has
proved himself sympathetic and kindly in spirit. ‘To
our individual problems he has given an attentive hear-
ing and displayed a fellow feeling rarely equaled in
an executive. At no time has he allowed personal dif-
ferences of opinion to sway his judgment in consid-
ering the best interests of the institution. In approach-
ing the severance of our official relations with him,
therefore, we can but express our personal regrets,
and wish for him happiness and contentment in the
years that are to come.

These resolutions were unanimously adopted by the
Faculty at its meeting Monday, November 5th, 1928,
and ordered spread upon its minutes, a copy sent to
President Henry Louis Smith, and a copy sent to the
Executive Committee of the Board of ‘Trustees.

E. S. Marrinciy, Secretary.

ON THE DEATH OF MR. JOHN S. MUNCE:

At a regular meeting of the Board of Trustees of
Washington and Lee University, held at Lexington,
Virginia, on the 3rd day of June, 1929, the following
resolution was offered and adopted by a standing vote:

Desiring to perpetuate in the records of this institu-
tion the memory of JoHN S. MunceE, one, of the trus-
tees of this University, whose continuous service to
the corporation has endured since June 17, 1901, the
date of his election, until the time of his death, which
occurred at Richmond, Virginia, on the 23rd day of
February, 1929, the following preamble and resolution
is adopted:

After a useful, dignified and distinguished career
made conspictous by intelligent industry and honest
administration, after years of honorable living and
good citizenship, the patient, modest, faithful, earthly
service of Joun S. Munce is done. We, who are
here assembled, knew him always as a loyal, temper-
ate, trusting, sympathetic friend and adviser, ever

    
    
    
     
  
    
   
   
 
    
  
    
   
   
   
       
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
   
  
  
  

and sincerely devoted to every interest he unde:
to serve. We are conscious that this man kn
tear of death for he had lived and spoken always
became an upright Christian gentleman. His is
found interest in the work of this University and
activity in its behalf was ceaseless. He was faithf;
to every obligation, conservative, patient and vain
staking, at all times evincing towards his associates |
unfailing courtesy and consideration which ende:
him to them, and the memory of our association
him will ever live. ae

ee

With deep sorrow we thus record his virtues and

pay this tribute to the memory of our departed associ:
ate and friend.
FURTHER RESOLVED, that a copy of this re

lution suitably engrossed, shall be sent to Mr. Mune s
family. “2

zealous in promoting the welfare of this instit

BEQUEST:

Washington and Lee University has been notifiec
that it is a beneficiary under the will of ‘Thomas HG eC
Patterson, of Philadelphia, who died April 25th. —

The University received a specific bequest of 1a
of Mr. Patterson’s library and the sum of $5,000, t
income from which is to be used in purchasing be i
for the University library. a

The University is also named as a residuary legatee
in one-fourth, with the provision that the income fro
$25,000 of the residuum be also used to purchas¢
books for the library, and the balance to be held i
trust and the income used for the establishment z
scholarships.

The University was notified by the executor of Mr.
Patterson. He was not an alumnus of the school anc
nothing is known about him here. It is also i
sible to determine the amount that the University will
receive under the will. The testator was survived bi a
a widow and two brothers who received bequests.
Three other institutions which participated in eC
residuary clause are Princeton University, Washing-
ton and Jefferson, and Western Theological Seminary.

a

  

o
“og

Oe
E

a

LIBRARY BOOKS:

More books under the classification of literature
were purchased by the library than books under any —
other, a recent estimate of the last six months shows. —
Fiction might be thought most popular but figures”
show fiction holds fourth place instead of first. His-_ :
tory and biography together take second place, and —
philosophy third. After fiction, reference books and | a
science books run about even. -

Of the 1,432 books acquired by the library during
the last year, 420 were gifts. The people giving books —

to the library this year gave more different editions of
“

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

Shakespeare than any other books. ‘The next largest
number of books given related to the civil war. A
number of books about Virginia also formed a large
portion.

Manning Simmons, ’28, made a gift of $100 to the
library. The latest edition of the Encyclopedia Bri-
tanica is to be bought with this money. The addition
of this encyclopedia will add greatly to the collection
of general reference books in the library, and will
form an excellent source for up-to-date material on
a variety of subjects.

PEALE PORTRAIT:

One portrait painted by the elder Peale was given
a permanent location in Virginia in 1897 when Gen-
eral Custis Lee presented it to Washington and Lee
University.

This rare and valuable likeness of Washington or-
dinarily to be seen in Lee Memorial Chapel, makes
him appear as a colonel of Virginia colonial troops,
and gives a conception of the physical strength and
power and the virile manhood of the great soldier and
statesman such as no ordinary picture of Washington
reveals. ‘The portrait owned by Washington and Lee
will have additional attractions to many Americans,
because it was painted by Peale for Washington and
was hung by the latter in his home at Mt. Vernon,
where it remained throughout the remainder of his
life. It passed to the ownership of the family of Mrs.
Washington, that is the Custis family, and through
that family came into the ownership of General Rob-
ert E. Lee, and hung in his home at Arlington before
the Civil War and in his home at Lexington after
the Civil War.

WITH THE PRESIDENT:

The son of Rev. Jacob H. Smith, Washington
and Lee graduate and native of Rockbridge County,
President Henry Louis Smith is completing nearly
a half century of service in the field of education;
eighteen years as president of Washington and Lee.

Dr. Smith was the guest of honor at the annual
banquet of. the Sphex Club, famed Lynchburg liter-
ary organization, on April 20, at which twenty
deans and presidents of Virginia colleges and uni-
versities paid tribute to him by attendance and rep-
resentation in addresses by President J. P. McCon-
nell of the Radford Teachers College and President
Julian H. Burruss, of V. P. I. To the Sphex Club
Dr. Smith spoke on “General Lee, the Life-long
Rebel.”

Other addresses made by Dr. Smith were before
the District Y. M. C. A. convention at Lynchburg
on March 9th, an educational address in the inter-
est of Flora McDonald College at Gibson, N. C., on

April 7; the Home-coming address at the Falling
Spring Presbyterian Church, May 12; Commence-
ment addresses at the Woodrow Wilson High School,
Waynesboro, Va., May 31; the Troutville Virginia
High School, June 10th; the John Handley High
School, Winchester, Va., June 13th. @

A CERTAIN RICH MAN:

Recipient of a sum of
controversial money, a cer-
tain rich man announced
his intention to donate the
fund to some worthy
cause. A certain Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus
sat in a Chicago hotel
lobby, read the announce-
ment of the proposed
bestowal in his evening
paper, procured pen and
paper, wrote to the rich
man in artistically beauti-
ful script as follows:

 

F. P. HAmtLToON
A Certain Alumnus

Dear Sir: Chicago, Ill.

Down in the Blue Ridge Mountains at Lexington,
Virginia, is located Washington and Lee University.
This institution was founded about two hundred
years ago; was partly endowed by George Washing-
ton, and presided over by Robert E. Lee. Its tra-
ditions are splendid and its reputation enviable. It
has never had a large student body but has gradu-
ated such men as Newton D. Baker; John W. Da-
vis; Miles Poindexter of Washington; Senator
Chamberlain of Oregon and many others. The in-
stitution is non-sectarian; is governed by a self-per-
petuating Board of Trustees, and has no financial
support from church or state. The student body is
selected and many are turned away every year be-
cause the University isn’t equipped to take care of
more. Present income is not sufficient to take care
ef such an honorable institution of learning, as
should be done.

About twenty years ago Mr. Robert P. Doremus
and Mrs. Doremus of New York chanced to pass
through Lexington and Mr. Doremus was deeply
impressed with Washington and Lee. He made
some quiet unnoticed inquiries and went home and
bequeathed his estate to the University. Ot course,
the property would not pass to the University dur-
ing the life of Mrs. Doremus. A few years later
Mr. Doremus died and Mrs. Doremus had erected
on the University campus a fine memorial gymna-
sium, but up to this time the estate is still hers.

The students at Washington and Lee come from

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

every state in the Union. About twenty thousand
tourists pass through the little chapel every year and
view Valentine’s recumbent statue of Lee, a master-
piece. Abraham Lincoln and Robert E. Lee need
no defense before the intelligent class of Americans
today but if you have not read them already I am
sure that you would enjoy “Lee the American” by
Gamaliel Beadford, of Boston, and “Lincoln or
Lee” by William E. Dodd, of the University of
Chicago.
I thank you very kindly for reading this letter.

Yours very respectfully,

F. P. Hamilton, 99,
408 Walnut Street,
New Orleans, La.

He received a courteous, tho negative, reply which
said in part, “I know universities are fine and that
they do a lot of good but I feel that those who have
been benefited from them should find methods of
assisting them.”

The certain alumnus, F. P. Hamilton, ’99, of
New Orleans, La., had been benefited, voluntarily
sought assistance for Washington and Lee, could be
well emulated by other alumni.

erties

COMMENCEMENT 1929

Dances and dancers—the shag, an unusually force-
ful Baccalaureate sermon, a colorful Alumni luncheon
with a timely address by John W. Davis, ’92, an ova-
tion to retiring President Henry Louis Smith follow-
ing his Commencement address in the presentation of
Trustees’ resolutions upon his retirement and the pre-
sentation of a handsome silver service from alumni
and faculty, featured the 1929 Commencement.

SOCIAL:

As usual the outstanding social features were the
Final dances climaxed by the brilliant all-night Final
Ball led by Finals President George F. Lanier and
directed by C. E. L. Gill, 22. Syncopation was pro-
vided by Jan Garber and his orchestra, amusement by
the “shag”, new fangled contortionate dance move-
ment. Various fraternity dances and morning dan-
sants rounded out the heavy terpsechorean menu.

More attractive to many were the parties thought-
fully given in a few faculty homes to visiting parents
and alumni, the colorful and tasty luncheon given by
the University for alumni and served in the Car-
negie Library by members of the Library staff, the
reception to Seniors and visitors by President and
Mrs. Henry Louis Smith at the President’s mansion.

OFFICIAL:

  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
 
   

First official convocation of graduating seniors 1
at the Baccalaureate service in the Lee Chapel §
day morning, June 2. Gowns and tassels forr +
lane for robes and hoods as the impressive 7 =
sional marched sedately to assigned places, — D:
George Stoves, English-born Methodist of Nashvil
Tenn., spare and tall, took “Godliness” as his "7
held his hearers entranced for a solid hour as h ;
spoke with humor, clarity and ringing pn
the livableness of Christianity. Said he: “Chris
ity is not a creed, not a dogma; it is a life. Tt n
ters not what you believe until you live it. saat
came primarily to teach men how to live, and not so
much how to die. He put before men the gloriou
opportunity of living. His was the life of adventure
of the highest ideals, devoted to the welfare of man.
Self denial and sacrifice he taught but nothing to sob
over.” ie

The formalities of graduation Tuesday, June 4, oe:
casioned a varied ovation to retiring President Henry
Louis Smith, Commencement speaker by Trustees’ in
vitation. After Dr. Smith’s brilliant address (s
page 44) and the award of diplomas, oe
the Board of Trustees upon his distinguished s
were read and presented by Trustee James R. Ca : ;
kie, ’06. -

At this point the program was interrupted ‘ye
introduction of Richard C. Stokes, ’05, of Covington
who, after a brilliant eulogy, presented Dr. a
with a handsome silver service in behalf of the alumn
and faculty. Mr. Stokes referred to the achieve-
ments of the sons of the Rev. Jacob H. Smith, ’47,
panticularly to the achievements of son Henry
in the fields of Science and Education, paid glowi:
tribute to his accomplishments at Washington
Lee. |
One hundred thirty-three seniors were awarded d
grees. Among them was the degree of Civil Engi-
neering conferred upon L. L. Shirey, B.S., *16,
Richmond, Va., and of Bachelor of Science confe
upon B. C. Eastwood who was seriously injured it
an automobile accident during the Final examinat ions.

General William H. Cocke, business man, soldi
lawyer, educator, retiring Superintendent of the Vir-
ginia Military Institute, who had successfully jo
President Smith in bringing their two neighborir
institutions into growing harmony and friendship, was —
honored by the conference of the degree of Dosti 3
of Laws, as was Judge Henry W. Holt, B.L. ’88, of
Staunton, Va., now Judge in the Virginia Supreme e
Court of Appeals, and William R. Perkins, B.L. 07, Ps
distinguished lawyer and representative of the gre :
Duke estates and benefactions, native of Lynchburg;
Va., now of New York City.

    
  
  
 
   
   
   
  
 
 
  
    
    
   
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
  

JulS

  

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Col. LeRoy Hodges, B.A. 710, one-time director of
the Virginia budget, official representative of Virginia
at home and abroad, holder of many foreign decora-
tions of merit, at present Director of the State Cham-
ber of Commerce, was the recipient of the degree of
Doctor of Commercial Science.

Degrees of Doctor of Divinity were awarded to
Rev. Oscar DeWolf Randolph, one-time rector of the
Lexington Episcopal Church, now principal of the
Virginia Episcopal School; to Rev. Herbert Syden-
stricker, Methodist of Staunton, Va.; to Rev. Asa
R. Larrick, B.A. ’07, of Plant City, Fila.

During the Commencement exercises President
Smith delivered to the University on behalf of Mrs.
Cocke and family a bronze portrait bust of Lucien H.
Cocke, ’79, of Roanoke, former rector of the Wash-
ington and Lee Board of Trustees.

The Valedictory address was delivered by Irving T.
Sanders, son of Rev. Robert S. Sanders, ’07, of
Sweetwater, Tenn.

INCIDENTAL:

Only remaining event from the traditional Com-
mencement program of another day was the annual
regatta on Maury River between the Harry Lee and
Albert Sidney boat crews, won by Albert Sidney.

LUNCHEON:

Two hundred people were seated at tables in the
reading room and on the balcony of the Carnegie Li-
brary. Flowers decorated tables and walls. Hand-
tinted place cards were at every plate. University
trustees, faculty and alumni lunched on Dan Owen’s
famous home cured ham and other refreshments pre-
pared and served under the direction of the Librarian,
Miss Blanche McCrum, and her assistants.

Dr. James Lewis Howe, alumnus of Amherst and
for 23 years Professor of Chemistry, now Dean of
Science, at Washington and Lee, spoke on Alumni-
Faculty Relationships. Richard C. Ammerman, senior
Law student, rendered selections on the violin; Col.
LeRoy Hodges, B.A. ’10, Director of the State
Chamber of. Commerce, about to become an honorary
Doctor of Commercial Science, spoke upon Alumni-
University Relationships; Roy Nichols, ’27, baritone,
now a member of the Boston Grand Opera Company,
rendered several vocal selections, was appreciatively
applauded.

A timely talk on his hopes for the future of Wash-
ington and Lee by Hon. John W. Davis was the fea-
ture of the luncheon. He quoted three outstanding
motives for going to college as financial, social or
cultural; declared his preference for the latter with-
out disparagement to bread and butter or super-kin-
dergarten education; favored an institution that taught

a few subjects—the liberal arts and the sciences, and
would be the greatest institution in the country along
those lines; prayed for neither riches nor poverty for
Washington and Lee.

Continued and sustained applause voiced a general
and hearty endorsement of Mr. Davis’ views.

Judge E. C. Caffrey, B.L. ‘09, presided over the
luncheon, expressed in behalf of the Alumni Asso-
ciation, Inc., appreciation to their University hosts, to
Miss McCrum and the Library staff, to Miss Barclay
for the artistic placecards and to Dan Owen, grower
of cultured hogs.

The Swing in concert closed the luncheon.

MR. DAVIS:

Busy man of many
large and important
affairs, John W. Da-
vis; B.A Oe, Bly:
95, one-time law
school professor, gives
much time and atten-
tion to matters per-
taining to Washington
and Lee. Preeminent
among the _ nation’s |
great lawyers, Mr. |
Davis is ever accessi-
ble in his Manhattan
offices to representa-
tives on Washington
and Lee business. He
is now president of
the active and. efficient Manhattan Alumni chapter;
as a trustee he has made it a policy to attend Board
meetings at least once during each year. Betimes he
serves on committees, gives time and money gener-
ously when needed, keeps in close touch with Uni- —
versity affairs by conference and correspondence.

Mr. Davis has quietly and dispassionately discussed
his conception of Washington and Lee’s proper chan-
nel in the field of education before Manhattan alumni
meetings and in private conversation as he did before
the assembled alumni trustees and faculty at the Com-
mencement alumni luncheon. His is the best expres-
sion of a composite alumni opinion on the future pol-
icy of Washington and Lee that has yet been made.

Alumni have definite hopes for Washington and
Lee which extend beyond the gridiron. Many view
present tendencies with incoherent alarm. Others
rant and tear over trifling departures. All would
heartily accept and advocate Mr. Davis’ desire to have
Washington and Lee confine her instruction to a few
well chosen courses in the liberal arts and sciences
and to make her the outstanding institution along

 

Hon. J. W. Davis, ’92
Chrystalizsed

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

those lines, would make it the key note of an official
definition of policy.

PERSONS:

Finals have given way to the Home-coming foot-
ball game for official alumni reunions. But to many
Commencement remains a happy convention time.

Among those present for the dances and festive
fraternity frolics were Joe Lanier, ’27, from West
Point, Ga.; Eldred Cayce, ’27, from Nashville, Tenn. ;
“Tobe” Hendrix, ’26, from Frederick, Md.; Jim
Brooke, ’27, from Birmingham, Ala.; George F. At-
wood, ’27, from St. Louis; Howard Tayloe, ’27, and
Ed Woodson, ’24, from Memphis, Tenn.; E._ T.
(Curley) Saunders, ’26, from Duke University ;
Lewis Ridenour, ’26, from Petersburg; Bruce Jack-
son, ’27, and Howard Sutton, ’28, from Richmond; J.
P. Penn, ’25, of Danville, Va.; Duncan C. Burch, ’27,
of White Plains, N. Y.; J. Warren Pierpont, ’27, of
Pensacola, Fla.; John and Harry Dawson, ’25, from
Rockville, Md., and many another former student
whose graduation did not antidate the entrance of
members of the present student body.

Dan Owen, 13, and his famous hams came; head-
quartered at the Alumni Biulding; were the centers

 

GrorcE C. Prsry, ’97

New Trustee

of frequent foregatherings. Ed Caffrey, ’09, genial
and gracious president of the Alumni Assn., Ine.:
Ran and Connie Cabell, ‘20, of Covington; Eddie
Davis, ’15, John Campbell, ’09; Jim Caskie, °06
Goodrich and Ann Sale, ’24, of Welch, West Va.
rallied around the ham; initiated Dozier DeVane, ’0g,
stately lawyer, and Wilton W. Connor, ’25, travelling
salesman, of Washington, D. C., to the Society of the
Ham.

Returning to the campus for the first time in many
a day were John M. Robinson, C.E. ’76, of Bayou
La Chute, La., uncle of C. C. Hutcheson, ’29, grad-

uating editor of the 1929 Calyx, cotton planter and

long a generous and loyal supporter of the Alumni
Association, Inc.; J. William Anderson, C.E. ’85, of
New Orleans, La., brother of Dean Douglas Ander-
son, 90, of Tulane, engineer for many years in Mex-
ico and Central America; Dr. Paul Mertins, ’95,
Physician, of Montgomery, Ala., father of Paul S.
Mertins, ’29, graduating senior; Dr. W. P. McCorkle,
’76, Minister, of Burlington, N. C.; W. R. Perkins,
04, prominent Manhattan lawyer, to receive the de-
gree of Doctor of Laws; Walter McElreath, ’92,
lawyer, of Atlanta, Ga.; John J. George, ’20, of New-
ark, Ohio, and L. L. Shirey, B.S. *16, of Richmond,
to receive his degree in Civil Engineering.

B. A. Judd, ’93, astute lawyer of New York City,
found many old and new friends; H. B. Tignor, ’23,
of Ashland, Va.; C. H. Gilkeson, ’89, of Fairfield,
Va., and W. H. Barrett, ’22, of Cucoo, Va., regis-
tered at Alumni headquarters. Col. LeRoy Hodges,
10, dynamic and aggressive industrialist of Rich-
mond, and Judge Henry W. Holt, ’88, of Staunton,
were present for the award of honorary degrees. Mr.
and Mrs. W. G. (“Scram’’) Sale, ’24, of Welch, and
Mr. and Mrs. Homer A. (“Rocky”) Holt, ’22, of
Fayetteville, West Va., returned for Alumni Day and
the Final Ball. Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, “02,
prominent Richmond medical specialist, came for a
meeting of the Alumni, Inc., Board of Trustees.

TRUSTEES’ MEETING:

Eleven trustees were present for deliberation on
University matters. Outstanding problem for the
Board’s attention was the selection of a successor to
retiring President Henry Louis Smith. No action
was taken; the Board’s nominating committee, Rector
George W. St. Clair, 92, Hugh B. Sproul, 93, and
John W. Davis, 92, was continued.

George C. Peery, B.L. ’97, lawyer of Tazewell, Va.,
former Congressman, a Methodist, and a recent Phi
Beta Kappa initiate, was elected to membership on
the Board.

Dr. Reid White, Jr., ’21, was elected associate Unt-
versity Physician to work in collaboration with his

 

>

ae

- il wil ‘a ¢
i i i NO eee, oe i ee ei

i lee Dal a” ©

& ha '.
‘Tay. “SP Lie. me

“ol Bee Be i MD ae An

tee
a)

= » 7
prs Sh lig a a et Ml De as

See ee

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

father, Dr. Reid White, ’85. Paul M. Penick, 796,
shrewd, dynamic and able financial preceptor, was re-
elected as Treasurer for a four year term.

Resolutions upon the retirement of President Henry
Louis Smith, upon the death of Trustee John S.
Munce, upon the death of former Latin Professor
James W. Kern, were drawn and adopted.

Trustees dared to approach the subject of student
ownership of automobiles, requested the faculty to
investigate and report on the subject.

Routine matters dealing with construction and
campus improvement, the location of the Rockefeller
purchased portrait of Washington by Peale at Wash-
ington and Lee, the appropriation for the mainte-
nance of the Alumni secretaryship and the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE were enacted.

Trustees George W. St. Clair, 92, rector, William
A. Anderson, 61, Rev. W. McC. White, ’74, Har-
rington Waddell, 96, W. A. McCorkle, ’78, John W.
Davis, 92, Hugh B. Sproul, 92, Charles J. McDer-
mott, James R. Caskie, 06, George Bolling Lee, ’98,
and Rev. W. Lapsley Carson, ’13, were present.

ALUMNI, INC., TRUSTEES’ MEETING:

Trustees E. C. Caffrey, president, of Newark, N.
J., Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, 02, of Richmond, Va.,
D. B. Owen, ’13, of Doylesville, Va., and John L.
Campbell, ’09, of Lexington, met, elected Stuart
Moore, ’21, to serve as part-time Alumni Secretary,
retiring Secretary Verbon E. Kemp, ’20, to continue
the editorship of the Alumnr MacaziIne temporarily.

Members present were appointed to compose a nomi-
nating committee for the purpose of selecting and
recommending a permanent full-time secretary and to
make nominations for successors to Alumni, Inc.,
trustees D. B. Owen and S. W. Frierson, resident
Athletic councilmen C. §S. Glasgow, ’09, E. L.
Graham, ’11, non-resident Athletic councilmen Car-
ter Glass, Jr., ’13, Laurence Witten, 10, and Treas-
urer E. IL. Graham, whose terms expire November
3, 1929.

The rental of living quarters in the Alumni
Building to bachelor professors was authorized.

SILVER SERVICE:

Alumni and faculty quickly responded to a circu-
lar notice, over-subscribed a fund, procured a seven
piece silver service for presentation to retiring Presi-
dent Henry Louis Smith at Commencement; procured
with surplus funds additional pieces of flat silver and
an oriental rug; further expressed their appreciation
of the retiring president’s service to Washington and
Lee in letters which were loosely bound and pre-
sented with the long list of contributors in a hand-
tooled leather folder.

Engraved on the silver serving tray was the Wash-

ington and Lee coat of arms; beneath it, the inscription
“To Henry Louis Smith, President, Washington and
Lee University 1912-1930. Presented in affectionate
admiration by Alumni, Faculty and Friends.” Pre-
sentation was made during the graduating exercises
with an eloquent address by Richard C. Stokes, ’05,
of Covington, Va.

The gifts enter the home built by and for General
Lee, are possessed by a family but distantly known to
the general alumni and student body. It is no peda-
gogish home governed by rule and rote. It is the
center of warmly pulsing family life, for the past
eighteen years the nursery of seven children. Neither
exclusive nor clannish the Smith family is sufficient
in its wholesome simplicity, is informally, genuinely,
sincerely hospitable, talks and understands the ver-
nacular of every age of the youth within their fold.

Himself the son of an alumnus of Washington Col-
lege, Dr. Smith has educated his four sons at Wash-
ington and Lee. The eldest died in an army training
camp before his graduation; two others graduated with
high distinction; the youngest is now a sophomore.
Three daughters have completed their work at Hol-
lins and Randolph-Macon, have adopted professions.
With, for and by their children, Dr. and Mrs. Smith
have created an outstanding example of ideal family
life; have provided those students privileged to partici-
pate and observe with the most useful object lesson
to be had at Washington and Lee.

—- ——% -—__——

STUDENT BODY
ELECTIONS:

Announcement cards, posters and handbills littered
the campus; stump speeches were made at a student
mass meeting; the machinery of campus politics
ground furiously; students polled their votes, elected
Louis F. Powell, unopposed, Phi Kappa Sigma of
Richmond, Va., as their President; *William A.
Plummer, Sigma Chi, of Portsmouth, Ohio, vice-
President; Frank O. Evans, of Gordon, Ga., Secty.-
Treas.; Roby K. Sutherland, Phi Kappa Psi, of Pu-
laski, Va., President of Finals; W. Van Gilbert, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon, of Athens, Ala., President of Fancy
Dress; J. William Davis, Pi Kappa Alpha, of Bristol,
Tenn., Editor, and W. C. Sugg, Phi Delta Theta,
Manager of the Ring-tum Phi; G. A. Ashworth,
Delta Tau Delta, of Kingston, Md., Editor, and R.
H. Walker, Phi Kappa Sigma, of Norfolk, Va., Man-
ager, the Southern Collegian; *Irving H. Elias, Zeta
Beta Tau, of Rockville Center, N. Y., Editor, and
R. D. Hamilton, Alpha Tau Omega, of Portsmouth,
Va., Manager, the Calyx; Alfred S. Wagner, Jr.,
Sigma Chi, of Dallas, Tex., Cheer Leader.

 

*Killed in an automobile accident Saturday, May 18.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

SCOTCH:

Students assembled, heard Dr. James Y. Simpson,
of the University of Edinburgh, compare Scotch uni-
versity life with that of the American college and
university, touch briefly but instructively upon the
subject of Science and Religion. A_ scientist and
philosopher of international repute, Dr. Simpson was
appreciatively received, was severely handicapped by
the poor acoustics of the inadequate gym auditorium.

JUDAISM:

Appearing under the auspices of the W. & L. “Y”,
Rabbi Jonah B. Wise, of New York City, father of
David J. Wise, freshman, spoke to students and towns-
people in the Lee Chapel on “Free People”, sketched
the history of the Jewish race and its effect on the his-
tory of the human race.

FATHER AND SON:

Henry Venable competed in the second Virginia
State Oratorical contest in 1892, won the medal. This
spring he sat in the Phi Beta Kappa Memorial Hall
at William and Mary, heard his son, W. W. Venable,
freshman lawyer, W. & L. representative, compete in
the 39th State Oratorical contest, heard him ad-
judged winner, saw him receive the diamond studded
medal similar to the one won by himself in 1892; a
duplicate of the medal won by H. M. Platt, W. & L.
representative last year.

DEBATE:

Three Washington and Lee students upheld na-
tional advertising as now carried on as being socially
and economically beneficial. Three Princeton stu-
dents said that it was harmful. The audience, after
hearing both arguments in the Lee Chapel, concluded
that present national advertising was all right, said
that the Washington and Lee debating team had de-
feated the Princeton debaters.

ALTERNATE:

Prizes and honors await the winner of the National
Oratorical contest on the U. S. Constitution. In the
Virginia State preliminaries, J. R. Moore, W. & L.
freshman, won second place, might compete in the
semi-finals should the State winner be unable to ap-
pear.

DRAMA:

As assistant professor of Public Speaking, Ulric
Moore, M. A. in dramatics from Cornell, will come
to Washington and Lee next fall, will direct the
Troubadours, student dramatic and musical organiza-
tion.

   
     
   
    
 
   
  
   
 
    
    
 
 
    
   
 
   
 
    
   
 
 
 
 
  
  

TROUBADOURS:

Students presented “The Haunted House” pef; oa
various audiences in Southwest Virginia, at +S oni
ton, paid off old debts, cleared a substantial enum

ae

placed the Troubadours on sound and stable groun d.

ise

FANCY DRESS:

Other voices add to the plea for more and better |
publicity. Object of much interest throughout the a
South, an institution of great social distinction, we
W. & L. Fancy Dress Ball has never been adequately _ ;
publicized. Student managers and directors Propose
to utilize the movietone, rotogravure and the /
sociated Press next year in an effort to overcome
the difficulty. - a

bey iy

~~ a
ihe: 5

“
' “i

GRADUATE REPRESENTATION:

145 students representing 26 states applied fous ro
the award of degrees at the 1929 Commenceassiilil
Virginia led with 39 applicants; Alabama is secor f
with 13, of which number 9 are from Mobile; Texz s
has 9 representatives. a

sam
BEST STUDENTS: a

Washington and Lee does not seek students. She
does seek the best students. To interest the best stu-
dents from outstanding Virginia and neighboring
preparatory and high schools, the best students or
Washington and Lee, members of the local Circle of
O. D. K., journeyed to and spoke before prep anc !
high schools on the subject of “Going to College.” —

S. 1. P. A.:

Editors, managers and advisers of preparatory and —
high school student publications came to Lexington
for a Southern Interscholastic Press Association con-—
vention under the auspices of the Washington and 3
Lee department of Journalism. 130 delegates from |
13 Southern states were reported. They were en-
tertained and instructed; their publications adjudged
and awarded. Among instructors was Marion B.
Alexander, ’23, free lance writer now at Charleston, —
S. C., one time home and foreign Associated Press —
correspondent. A banquet featuring made-in- Dixie ®
products and presided over by ‘Trustee Hugh B.
Sproul, 92, concluded the convention. q

CALYX:

Visiting and local girls favored by the attention of —
Washington and Lee students were once called 7
“calics”, short for calico or for the outer leaves of a —
flower. Students published an annual in 1895, called
it the Calys. Except for 1896 it has been published —
each year since that date.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

A. T. O. HOUSE:

Now a’building is the new home of the Alpha Tau
Omega Fraternity on its spacious lot at the corner of
Main and Houston streets.

It will be Colonial with Mt. Vernon front, of brick
over hollow tile, will contain 16 bedrooms, matron’s
apartment, living and dining rooms, lounge and chap-
ter room, 3 baths; furnished throughout it will cost
$35,000. Foundation and brick work have been com-
pleted; occupancy by September 10th promised.

A. T. O. alumni in charge of construction are
Dean H. D. Campbell, ’82, C. C. Tutwiler, ’96, C. E.
L. Gill, ’20, M. W. Paxton, Jr., ’20, Victor H. Hanson,
and M. W. Paxton, Sr., ’80.

FRATERNITY PARK:

Set aside by the University for fraternity building
sites the plots on Jefferson Street opposite the Me-
morial Gate have been enhanced by the construction
of the Beta Theta Pi and Phi Kappa Sigma houses,
will be rounded into a spacious residence park upon
the completion of the Phi Delta Theta and Sigma Nu
houses now under construction.

Under a revised location plan the Fraternity Park
will match the campus in spacious open greenness,
will be a beautiful setting for the four commodious
and handsome houses, will provide at least two addi-
tional sites for future fraternity house builders.

UNFIT ATHLETES:

Critique:

Editorially, the Ring-tum Phi, student semi-weekly,
dared to criticize Washington and Lee athletes for
constant breaches of training rules, attributed the
poor baseball showing partly to such _ breaches;
shocked and grieved many idealistic athletic sup-
porters.

Facts:

The day of the training table and minute living
regulations for American college athletes is no more.
Coaches are strict on the subject of alcoholic indul-
gence but take it for granted that competition for
positions, love of the game, desire to win, will cause
the individual athlete to observe the minor funda-
mentals of training as may apply to him. Such con-
fidence is sometimes mistaken for laxity; minor prin-
ciples concerning eating, smoking and sleeping are
overlooked, even the drinking rule broken for “special
occasions”. There is no way of checking up at
Washington and Lee. Also every athlete who makes
a poor showing is not necessarily a traitor to training.

Sad System:

More pernicious is the existing system of student
living and thinking which has been allowed to estab-
lish itself; a system which expresses itself only in
terms of ridicule; which admits no inspiring “love of
the game” or “desire to win”; which restrains qual-
ified athletes from “going out” for athletic team
positions; which nullifies the best efforts of student
cheer leaders; which sends only a sprinkling of stu-
dent “fans” to the baseball and track meet stands;
which honors no honor system and only accepts tra-
ditions of parasitical growth; which fawns upon a
patronizing “well without water” and accepts his false
outpourings as gospel truths.—In short, the lack of
a discerning, inspiring, dynamically loyal, college
spirit.

TRAGEDY:

An automobile accident between Natural Bridge
and Lexington Saturday night, May 18th, resulted in
the deaths of Junior students W. A. Plummer and I.
H. Elias; serious injuries to students B. C. Eastwood
and Virgil C. Jones; painful though minor injuries
to students Roland Walker and M. G. Perrow, Jr.;
cast a pall of gloom over the campus; stunned class-
mates and friends of the dead and injured.

Eastwood, owner of the car, had retired Saturday
night, was awakened by a group of friends with the
suggestion that they drive to Natural Bridge to “look
in” at the opening dance at the Natural Bridge Hotel.
He complied. The dance was soon over and the
group piled into the high-powered Buick roadster,
three in the rumble and three in the driver’s seat,
sped homeward over a wet road, took a curve sharply,
hit a rock, crashed into a bank.

Plummer and Elias, occupants of the rumble seat,
were killed almost instantly. Jones and Eastwood

suffered serious internal injuries and fractured skulls.

W. A. (“Bill”) Plummer was completing his fourth
year at Washington and Lee, his second in the Law
School. He had won distinction as an orator and de-
bater, had been elected vice-president of the student
body for next year. A member of Sigma Chi Frater-
nity his home was at Portsmouth, Ohio.

I. H. (“Gus”) Elias, brother of H. L. Elias, ’23,
was a Junior student in Journalism, a frequent con-
tributor to the Southern Collegian, editor-elect of the
Calyx, a member of the Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity.
His home was at Rockville Center, Long Island. Both
Plummer and Elias were distinguished for high schol-
arship.

Funeral services were held in the Lee Chapel Sun-
day afternoon, May 19th; the remains sorrowfully es-
corted to the railroad station by the student body.

B. C. Eastwood, of New Orleans, La., and V. C.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE *

Jones, of Gordonsville, Va., hovered between life and
death at the Jackson Memorial Hospital. Eastwood is
a Senior and graduated in June. Jones is a junior
journalism student. Both are members of the Alpha
Chi Rho Fraternity.

Injuries suffered by Roland Walker, manager-elect
of the Southern Collegian and M. G. Perrow, Jr., son
of Dr. M. G. Perrow, ’97, of Lynchburg, Va., were
painful but not serious.

BAR-COACHING:

Aspirants for admission to the Virginia Bar were
examined at Roanoke; more than half failed to pass.
Twelve Washington and Lee students aspired, after
intensive tutoring by elongated, kinetic and able law
professor Clayton E. Williams in a summer coaching
class. Nine among the twelve reflected credit to Coach
and school, passed the examination. Admitted to the
Bar were Joseph M. Holt, of Lewisburg, West Va.,
W. J. Dorsey, of Philadelphia, Pa., M. H. MacBryde,
Jr., Reedsville, N. C., T. D. Shumate, Glen Lyn, Va.,
M. E. Padgett, Jr., and J. B. Oliver, of Bedford, Va.,
H. B. Busold, Orange, N. J., and L. H. Davis, Ports-
mouth, Va.

ema aiiectadal
°

ATHLETICS
SPRING SPORT SEASON:

An airplane view of Wilson Field on an early
spring afternoon would show a beehive of activity.
Freshman and Varsity ball tossers, trackmen and
gridmen dotted the greens, flexed and _limbered
cramped winter muscles, prepared for spring and fall
intercollegiate competition.

Outstanding during the spring season was the W.
& L. Track team. As expected, the baseball team
made a most mediocre showing. Stimulated and gal-
vanized by the introduction of new ideas, new vigor
and new leadership through the personality of dy-
namic new Coach Oberst, the football squad dis-
played much in spring training to augur well for the
fall grid season.

TRACK:

Records:

There are many records. Primary but distinctive
are the records established and held only at Wash-
ington and Lee by Washington and Lee athletes since
1912.

Premier record breaker was Captain Ed Backus,
who thrice broke the record for the 880 (half-mile)
established in 1916 by “Birdie” Robbins. Running
his last race in Blue and White, Backus again broke
his own record, twice circled the track in 1 min.

  
  
  
   
 
 
 
  
     
    
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  

* he
- Wa
- ri]
ae

56 1/5 sec., established an extraordinary high 2
for future half milers to overcome.

R. P. Grant covered 100 yards in 9 4/5 see¢ i
220 yards in 21 4/5 seconds, equaled one and estal
lished another W. & L. record. Baily, a freshr a
twirled and sent the discus 125 ft. 8% in, a “ne
record. “Billy” Sandifer took a running jump, ¢ ai
ered 22 ft. 8% in. before again touching ¢ al
broke another local record. Gatewood Brock, tw
miler, circled the indoor track 16 times, set a new | ine

door record for the mile. Vita
‘aa

High Pointer: x

Individual showings and shattered records are or i
liant high lights, but track meets are won by total
points scored. High point honors were earned by
“Billy” Sandifer, Phi Delta Theta, of Lexing
Ky., who amassed a total of 75 points during the a
meets of the 1929 season. Mr. Sandifer ran seconc
to the record-breaking Grant in the 100 and 200 yd.
dashes, took firsts and seconds in the high jump,
firsts in the broad jump, averaged 12% points per
meet. E

Team:

With an outstanding complement of runners
Fletcher-men were weak in the weight events,
erally lost all places in the discus and shot event:
Redeeming was the work of Janney, Fangboner anc
Hawes with the javelin; of Pomeroy, Sanders an
Maxey in the pole vault; Williams, Noyes and Dor-
man in the hurdles; Sheppard, Dickey and Williams
in the quarter-mile; Brock in the two-mile; bri
the efforts of Captain Backus in the mile without er
barrassment to his success in his specialty, the bal
mile. E

Tae

Lost and Won: | a

The Generals entered five dual meets, were vV ic-
torious in four, placed second in the State meet. In 13
addition they were represented at the famed Penr n
games at Philadelphia, placed third there in the sprint
medley relay, fifth in the 100 yd. dash, sixth in the
mile relay. ‘

Significant was the competition for second place in
the Va. State meet between V. M. I. and W. & L.,
the first athletic competition between the two neigh-
boring institutions for many a year. ‘The meet w as”
won by Virginia; W. & L. led V. M. I. by one point
for second place; V. P. I. took fourth place.

Scores:

& L. 534%—U. of N. C. 72%
& L. 651%4—N. C. State 60%
& L. 68%—Maryland 57%

& L. 70 —U. of Richmond 36
& L. 68—Duke 58

<s2=%

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

State Meet:
Virginia 50, W. & L. 45; V. M. I. 44, V. P. I. 26.

Southern Conference Meet:

Five trackmen went to Birmingham, Ala., repre-
sented Washington and Lee in the Southern Confer-
ence track meet, captured fourth place in a list of
fifteen participating colleges and universities.

Leigh Williams, premier all-round athlete, handily
won the 440 yard event; Ed Backus, record-breaking
captain, captured the 880; Grant took third place in
the 100 and 220 yard dashes. Williams, Dickey,
Backus and Sheppard, ran smoothly to win the 1
mile relay from the famed Vanderbilt relay team,
thus totalled 23 points for the Generals in the South’s
premier Track and Field event. A heavy rain soaked
track prevented record-breaking performances.

Future:

With a fair freshman team coming up with out-
standing strength in the weight events, and many
sophomore stars on this year’s Varsity, prospects for
an even more successful season are bright for 1930.

BASEBALL:

Predicated upon a lack of pitching material Dick
Smith’s diamond aggregation entered their 1929 sea-
son with an inferiority complex. But the detracted
pitchers allowed few more hits than were garnered by
General batsmen against opposing pitchers and Gen-
erals’ fielders made more errors than the pitchers al-
lowed in hits. So went the season. White, Mount,
Radford, Williams and Atwood shared the mound
duties. ‘The usual weakness in the infield was more
apparent than ever before in W. & L. baseball his-
tory.

During the early season the Blue and White nine
showed well against Princeton, Delaware and Cath-
olic University. But except for wins over Lynch-
burg College and Guildford every other game was
dropped, including every game in the tri-State Col-
lege League.

Outfielders Lowden, Slanker, Hanna and Richard-
son did well in their positions and at bat. Between
trips with the Track team and turns on the mound,
Leigh Williams, looming four-letter, all-round ath-
lete, played brilliantly at first base.

Erratic fielding accounted for the following results:

W. & L. 9 —Lynchburg College 7
W. & L. 6 —Catholic U. 4
W. & L. 4 —Princeton 2
W. & L. 14—N. C. State 21
W. & L. O —Duke 13
& L. 5 —U. of N. C. 7

—

V.

wv ¥

ce

4

 

Coacn Eucense Operst
Galvanized

. 5 —Guildford 3
. 3 —N. C. State 9
. 5 —Maryland 10
~& Ll. 2—V. P17

-& L. 5 —U. of Va. 12

W. & L. 9 —Delaware 5

W. & L. 5 —Virginia 6

W. & L. 4 —Davidson 10

W. & L. 1 —William and Mary 2
W.& L. 3 —V. P. I. 4

W. & L. 5 —Maryland 6

W. & L. 2 —Navy 11

W.&L

W. &

W.&

==
Pr

COACHING SCHOOL:

Coaches or would-be coaches of football and bas-
ketball came to Lexington July 1-13, paid $25.00, and
were intensively instructed in the fine points of those
sports by famed Notre Dame football mentor, Knute
K. Rockne, and Wisconsin basketball mentor, Dr.
Walter E. Meanwell; witnessed demonstrations of
their teaching in the W. & L. gymnasium or on Wil-
son Athletic Field. Registration and accommodations
were arranged through R. A. Smith, ’15, Graduate
Manager of Athletics, W. & L., Lexington, Va.

SPRING FOOTBALL PRACTICE:
A young host of football aspirants limbered up be-

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

neath spring’s warming sun under the direction of
Asst. Coach “Mike” Palmer in preparation for the
fall gridiron assaults. When tall and rangy Coach
Oberst appeared to personally direct activities there
was a noticeable stepping up, a harder grind, more
rigid training, closer attention to the fundamentals,
more pep and stamina exhibited than has been seen
on the local gridiron in many a day. As always, there
is a noticeable lack of weight in the preliminary
squad. But there is a world of speed and natural
ability from which the new Coach may draw.

FOOTBALL:

The Generals will enter the 1929 Grid season with-
out benefit or handicap of pre-season prophesies.
Team and coaches are new and untried. The schedule
is lighter without the usual engagements with Prince-
ton and Maryland.

Spring practice indicated little except an unusual
demonstration of pep and snap. Many veterans will
be missing. ‘The ability of the new material remains
to be shown. Leigh Williams, half backs Thibideau
and Jones, full back Barnett and Tackle Bill Hawkins
(capt.) will form the nucleus for team building.

The outstanding feature of the season will be the
Homecoming game with Virginia in Lexington, No-
vember 16th. A special two-day Homecoming pro-
gram will be arranged, accommodations should be re-
served in advance of the playing date, directly with
Lexington hotels and rooming houses or through the
Alumni Office.

Graduate Manager R. A. Smith has arranged to pro-
vide reserved tickets in Washington and Lee alumni
sections for any game on the schedule upon remit-
tance at least two weeks in advance.

FoorTsaLl, SCHEDULE 1929.

With At

Sept. 28—Lynchburg Lexington, Va.
Oct. 4—N. C. State Raleigh, N. C. Sir Walter Hotel
Oct.12—Kentucky Lexington, Ky. Lafayette Hotel
Oct. 19—West Va. Charleston, W. Va. Holly Hotel

Oct. 26—Tennessee Roanoke, Va.
Nov. 2—V. P. I. Blacksburg, Va. None
Nov.9—St. Johns Lexington, Va. Alumni Building
Nov. 16—Virginia Lexington, Va. Alumni Building
Nov. 28—Florida Jacksonville, Fla. Carling Hotel

Headquarters.

Alumni Building

Tickets can be secured for any game in the Alumni
section by sending checks two weeks in advance of
game to R. A. Smith, Box 891, Lexington, Va.
Price of all games will be $2.00 except the Florida
game at Jacksonville on ‘Thanksgiving which will
be $2.50. |

AGAIN PUBLICITY:

Commencement 1929 included many outstanding

Patrick Henry Hotel

features of note such as the ovation to President ‘4
Henry Louis Smith, the presentations to him, and _
his Commencement address; the alumni luncheon and _
the address of Hon. John W. Davis.

Press reports of these and other University af- ‘a

fairs would be of keen interest to alumni throughout =

the country and to the public at large, would be of tre- Be
mendous value to the University. But only the sheer- _
est modicium of news of Commencement was pub-

lished in the newspapers of the state and practically
none in other Southern dailies.

Alumni create the outstanding consumer demand
for University news, justify the maintenance of a a
Publicity Department. In response the Treasurer re-
ports the expenditure of $1,079.62 for publicity dur- a

ing the past fiscal year, in addition lists the expendi-

ture of $568.70 as traveling expenses for the Direc-
tor of Publicity. These expenditures are in addition

to the cost of sending out athletic publicity, which |

is defrayed and directed by the Athletic Association. —
They are also in addition to the salaries paid to the if
Director and assistant Director of Publicity which .
they receive as professors in the Department of Jour-
nalism. Yet inadequate, unbalanced, partial and in-
sufficient news reports of Washington and Lee affairs
continue to be the result under the present system.

SENIOR ATHLETIC AWARDS:

Seniors who were fortunate enough to win mono- "
grams two and three years in any one sport during
their four years at Washington and Lee were duly ©
rewarded at Commencement exercises. 4

The rule of the Athletic Association has been re- —

vised and now both a two and three year letter man

is honored. In addition to a regular monogram ~
sweater given to all men earning their insignia in any
sport, a two year man receives a handsome monogram 4
blanket. A three year man not only receives a blanket —
but gets his gold miniature charm emblamatic of that
sport. All men must be seniors before receiving these
awards.

The following Seniors have been awarded gold
miniature charms and monogram blankets emblematic
of three year monogram service: q

Football: E. A. Fitzpatrick (Capt.) Roanoke, Va.;
E. H. White, Hageman, N. M.; H. T. Groop, Fitch-
burg, Mass.; G. H. Lanier, (Mgr.) West Point, Ga.

Basketball: J. P. Lowry (Capt.) Clinton, Okla.;
A. B. Morgan (Mgr.) Memphis, Tenn.

Baseball: E. H. White (Capt.) Hageman, N. M.; —

T. B. Fitzhugh (Mgr.) Augusta, Ark.

Track: E. N. Backus (Capt.) Vernon, Texas; —

A. L. McCardell, Jr. (Mgr.) Frederick, Md.
The following have been awarded monogram blankets

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

only, which is emblematic of two years monogram
service :

Football: J. B. Towill, Batesburg, S. C.; M. Se-
ligman, Shaw, Miss.; W. B. Lott, Mobile, Ala.

Baseball: G. N. Lowdon, Washington, D. C.
Basketball: None.

Track: A. S. Simmons, Adams, Mass.; A. M.
Janney, Lincoln, Va.

BASKETBALL CAPTAIN:

The 1928-29 cage team completed a most success-
ful season, elected E. M. (“Ernie”) Wood, flashing,
fighting guard of Lynchburg, Va., as their captain
for next season.

AGAIN WILLIAMS:

Completing his sophomore year at Washington and
Lee, Leigh Williams, of Norfolk, Virginia, has ac-
quired four major sport monograms, has made a dis-
tinct and outstanding showing in each sport. Regular
football end until incapacitated by a painful foot in-
jury, star pivot man of the history-making basket-
ball quint, low hurdle and quarter-mile track winner
and baseball first baseman—pitcher, he looms toward
the exclusive firmament of all-time, all-round Wash-
ington and Lee stars.

ORTH:

In 1912 a famous big league star came to Wash-
ington and Lee, coached Blue and White diamond
aspirants. The star became a big league umpire,
carved his name high in professional baseball.

“Al” Orth is a familiar figure in Lexington to-
day. For the past few years he has been the regular
arbiter between Washington and Lee and her dia-
mond foes, as well as at V. M. I. Only the unini-
tiated dare to question his decisions. He brings the
dignity and the astuteness of the professional umpire
to the college diamond, recalls the glory of old-time
baseball when legends of his speed and control were
handed down for small boy worship from the “Big
Leagues.”

“Al” Orth lives in quiet retirement in his attrac-
tive Lynchburg, Va., home, follows professional
baseball closely, umpires college games because of his
love for the sport.

BOXING INSTRUCTOR:

William E. Malone, of Lynchburg, Va., star in base-
ball and football at Lynchburg College during the past
three years, has announced his appointment as box-
ing instructor at Washington and Lee. His work
begins with the 1929-30 session, and he will, at the
same time, be enrolled as a student in Law.

 

A, OrtH
Coach of Baseball, 1913

Malone was a student at Georgetown University
four years ago and it was while there that he took up
boxing. During that year he earned a _ prominent
place on the Georgetown boxing squad.

“FIGGERS”:

“Less than one percent of American men are col-
lege graduates. Yet out of this ome percent have
come:

55% of our Presidents; 36% of the Members of
Congress; 47% of Speakers of the House; 56% of
the vice-Presidents ; 62% of the Secretaries of State;
50% of the Secretaries of the Treasury; 69% of the
Justices of the Supreme Court.’’—Selected.

diesen
>

LEXINGTON
GOSHEN PASS:

Famed beauty spot, one-time stage route for in-
coming students, beloved of the great Matthew Fon-
taine Maury, proposed site for hydro-electric indus-
trialization, Goshen Pass was, is and continues to be
an object of controversy,—Beauty vs. Utility. The
Virginia Corporation Commission, Louis S. Epes, ’08,
Chairman, doubts its authority to settle the question,
rests the case on the question of jurisdiction.

 

TALKIES:

Filler of student idle hours the New ‘Theater of

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lexington, Ralph I. Daves, ’25, manager, recently in-
stalled a pipe organ, has just installed a photo sound
reproducing device, will exhibit “talkies”.

HEAVENLY RECOGNITION:

Air passengers may locate and recognize Lexing-
ton by the huge letters indicating the name of the
town which have been painted in aluminum on _ the
Court House Roof. This act of service to future
sky riders brought recognition from the Guggenheim
Aeronautical Foundation.

CATS:

Question: Why do cats whine so?

Answer: If you had as many violin strings in you
as a cat’s gut, you’d whine too! So goes the old stage
pun.

Recent subject of local controversy, cats made col-
lege and town news. A local pet fancier viewed
with alarm the disappearance of town Toms and
Tabbies each spring when the Biological Laboratory
becomes a cat mortuary and questing students investi-
gate the sources of violin string supply.

Dr. W. D. Hoyt, Professor of Biology, denied;
said that experimental cats came from country stores,
that cat skins were saved as proof to accusing pet
owners, that said skins had never been identified as
the one-time epidermal home of the lost or strayed
feline in question by those bereaved.

MAYOR PECK:

Long politically stagnant, Lexington participated in
a hotly contested municipal election, elected H. Crim
Peck, B.L., ’07, astute business man, lawyer and
golfer, to succeed Gilbert A. Rhodes, incumbent, as
Mayor. Mayor Rhodes had held office since his ap-
pointment to succeed the late Otho Jackson, 711.

Elected as members of the Town Council were Dr.
James Lewis Howe professor of Chemistry and Dean
of Science, and E. E. Deaver, local merchant; re-
elected were John L. Campbell, ’09, lawyer, banker
and trustee of the Alumni Assn., Inc., Dr. Reid
White, ’85, College physician; Stuart Moore, ’22,
lawyer and newly elected Alumni Secretary pro tem,
and F. A. Dunn, plumbing contractor.

LEE BUST:

An Italian sculptor, Signor Ferrari, was selected to
create a bronze bust of General Robert E. Lee for the
benefit of visitors to Lexington, Washington and Lee
alumni and friends, desiring some new attractive and
appropriate momento from the shrine of the Great
Southern General. The sculptor used as his model
the most favored of Lee’s portraits, “Lee, the Sol-
dier,” by Pine. Unbiased in feeling but intent on

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
    
  
   
   
   
 
 
 
  

creating in bronze the identical expression which they
artist brought out on canvass, Signor Ferrarj has
been most painstaking in his efforts. Several models —
were made before he was satisfied that he had repro-
duced a likeness to the artist’s oil painting, a4
Finally, the sculptor was satisfied. He submitted his _
model to the Gift and Art Shop, in the Robert E. Lee |
Hotel, Lexington, Virginia. It was approved and ac-
cepted, and this shop has the exclusive sale of the lit
tle bronze bust of Lee. Bi
The bust is three inches high, and can be used as
an attractive ornament or a paper weight. It makes _
a most acceptable gift and comes wrapped in a gift box. ;

“e

TWENTY-FIVE YEARS AGO

PROFESSOR A. L. NELSON HONORED:

(From Lexington Gazette, June 15, 1904.)

Tuesday was Alumni Day at Washington and Lee.
The annual meeting of the association was held in
the afternoon. Rey. Dr. James R. Winchester of St.
Louis, Mo., delivered the annual address in the chapel
at 9 o’clock in the evening before a crowded house, and
the following exercises in connection with the fifty
years of service of Professor A. L. Nelson as pro-—
fessor of mathematics took place. ag

Mr. J. D. M. Armstead of Lynchburg, vice oa
dent of the Alumni Association, presided. A beautiful
silver service from Tiffany, the gift of the alucail
was presented to Professor Nelson in a happy speech —
by Mr. F. Sydnor Kirkpatrick of Lynchburg. Pro- |
fessor Nelson responded feelingly for the honor done :
him, briefly reviewing his connection with the institu- —
tion for half a century. About three thousand stu- —
dents have received instruction in his department, of
whom fully one thousand were graduated. a

At the conclusion of the exercises at the chapel a-
reception in honor of Professor Nelson and Mrs. Nel- 2
son was held by Mr. and Mrs. George Denny at their —
hospitable home on the campus. ‘The entire lower 4
floor of the spacious house was thrown open and an
immense throng was present to honor Professor and —
Mrs. Nelson and to enjoy the hospitality of Presi- ©
dent and Mrs. George Denny. Five hundred invita-
tions had been issued. The decorations were palms, —
roses, sweet peas, and peonies, and the refreshments
were ices, cream, cake and apollinaris punch. a

Those receiving were President and Mrs. Denny, a
Professor and Mrs. Nelson, Mr. and Mrs. A. T. Bar-
clay, Mrs. W. F. Junkin, Miss Florence Wea :
Miss Mattie Denny and Dr. J. H. Latané. Mrs. —
Reid White and Mrs. W. LeConte Stevens preset
in the dining room and Mrs. J. H. Kern served punch. —
Music for the occasion was furnished by Smith’s or-
chestra from Washington, D. C. a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

FACULTY
FRUITS:

3ecause of the demand for their services, because
of the appeal of their particular subjects to the gen-
eral public, or because of professional or other or-
eanized association connection, the activities of many
able Washington and Lee professors are often in the
public eye.

Others, no less able, no less active, stay at home
and teach, deal with internal affairs. Known by many
a student for their unselfish labor in their behalf are:

Dr. T. J. Farrar, ’95, professor of German, long
and active director of, and councillor to, the Alumni
Assn., Inc., now and for some time past councillor
and guide to the Inter-fraternity Council.

Dr. L,. J. Desha, 06, professor of Chemistry, build-
ing supervisor for the Phi Kappa Sigma house cor-
poration, popular and able chairman of the Faculty
social functions committee.

Dr. James L. Howe, professor of Chemistry, Dean
of Applied Science, for many a year teacher of the
students’ Bible class, advisor to many a fraternity,
councillor to the Y. M. C. A.

Prof. Rupert N. Latture, °17, Sunday School
teacher, member of the Y. M. C. A. advisory com-
mittee, whose sociological interest extends from stu-
dents needing opportunities for self help to the local
jail and the under-privileged youth of the town and
county.

Prof. Clayton E. Williams, 07, Men’s Bible class
teacher, long voluntary coach of Tennis, Alumni ad-
viser to the Pi Kappa Alpha Fraternity.

Prof. John Graham, ’12, director of many a stu-
dent dramatic and musical venture, one time adviser
to the Troubadours, efficient Faculty public functions
committee chairman.

Dr. E. F. Shannon, chairman of the Faculty com-
mittee on the Library and Art Gallery.

Prof. C. E. L. Gill, ’21, tireless director of the
famed Fancy Dress Ball, one time dramatic coach,
compiler and editor of the annual University Cat-
alogue.

Dr. R. G. Campbell, ’99, long famed for his devo-

tion to Athletics, member of the Athletic Council, ad- |

viser to the Alumni Assn.

Dr. Wm. M. Brown, ’14, Y. M. C. A. advisor, vo-
cational guide, director of appointments and self help.

Prof. Hale Houston, 95, superintendent of grounds,
director of many campus improvements; construc-
tion and building adviser to the Athletic and Alumni
Assns.

Dr. R. W. Dickey, ’10, superintendent of buildings,

 

Dr. W. M. Brown, 714

Virginia Governor?

sponsor of modern and new equipment, additions,
buildings, etc.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, hard working committee-
man on curricular changes, freshman matters, pub-
licity and many other special faculty responsibilities.

VIRGINIA GOVERNOR:

During the Fall presidential campaign Dr. W. M.
Brown, ’14, professor of Education and Psychology,
made a speech in the interest of the Hoover candidacy
at Keswick, Albemarle County. Political leaders were
impressed, made mental notations, awaited the Vir-
ginia gubernatorial campaign to bring forward the
able orator of Keswick as a candidate.

It happened that Dr. Brown was first presented as
an “anti-Smith” candidate because his nomination was
advocated by many of the independent Democrats who
had opposed the nomination and election of Demo-
cratic presidential candidate, Alfred E. Smith. <Ac-
cordingly, Dr. Brown was nominated for governor of
Virginia by the so-called “anti-Smith convention” in
Roanoke early in June. Dr. Brown wired his resig-
nation to the Washington and Lee authorities, ac-
cepted the nomination. One week later he was nomi-
nated by the State Republican convention.

A three-cornered race is being waged for the nomi-
nation in the Democratic Primary between John Gar-
land Pollard, professor of Business Administration of
William and Mary, and one-time Attorney General of
Virginia; G. Walter Mapp, State Senator; and Ros-
well Page, farmer and author. The winner will op-
pose Dr. Brown in the Fall election.

Quickly intimating that the ‘Anti’ feature would

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

be dropped from this campaign vocabulary, Dr.
Brown has quietly but vigorously set out to win the
State’s highest office by appeal to the independent
voter, by subjugation of partisanship to principle.
Whatever the result, Virginia enters a two party
competition for the control of State affairs.

William Brown entered Washington and Lee in
1911, from Danville, Va., won many scholastic dis-
tinctions, was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, organized
Omicron Delta Kappa which has since become na-
tional, won the debaters medal, received his A.B. de-
gree in 1914, M.A. in 1915, served as Y. M. C. A.
Secretary and instructor in German until 1917, don-
ned kakai as a buck private, progressed to second-
lieutenantship in the Air Service, returned to become
principal of the Danville, Va., High School. He en-
tered the Washington and Lee faculty in 1920, be-
came professor of Education and Psychology.

Prominent fraternally, in demand as a_ speaker,
ever active in the affairs of education, Dr. Brown has
had many tempting opportunities offered him. It was
felt by many that he might succeed retiring President
Henry Louis Smith. His venture into politics is but
an unexpected step which may not go beyond the
trial stage or may achieve for him a new vocation.

Because of its ghost-like echo of the. decadent 1928
presidential campaign, Dr. Brown’s nomination was
given national prominence, was reported at length in
the New York Times, Baltimore Sun, Literary Di-

 

Dr. Ropert H. Tucker

From a Virginia Farm

gest, Time and numerous other dailies and peri-
odicals. Politically minded alumni questioned the im-
plied and indirect connection of Washington and Lee
with State politics, could not deny him the right to pur-
sue a personal path toward political preferment after
severing his University connection.

VA. ACADEMY OF SCIENCE:

Meeting at Staunton, the Va. Academy of Science
held its seventh annual meeting. President W. M.
Brown presided, Dean H. D. Campbell, ’82, delivered
an address on “The Structure of Eagle Mountain,
Virginia”; Prof. M. E. Stowe on “Sedimentary
Petrography”; G. W. Dunnington, ’28, gave “An
Historical Sketch of the U. S. Coast and Geodetic
Survey.”

SOCIAL SCIENCE ASSOCIATION:

Presided over by Dr. Robert A. Tucker, professor
of Economics and Business Administration, the Vir-
ginia Social Science Association met in Lynchburg,
heard, among others, several Washington and Lee
speakers. Major LeRoy Hodges, *10, Managing Di-
rector of the State Chamber of Commerce, spoke up-
on Industrialization in Virginia. Robert D. Ram-
sey, ’12, Managing Director of the Lynchburg
Chamber of Commerce, spoke upon another phase of
the same subject. Dr. G. D. Hancock, Dean of the
School of Commerce, presided over a discussion sec-
tion. Prof. C. E. L. Gill led a discussion group.
Dr. Tucker delivered, as his president’s address, “Our
Unstable Standard of Value’, a paper which has re-
cently won him national fame.

“Y” SECRETARY:

Able “Y” Secretary C. Houston Patterson, *19, re-
turns to his mission post in China in August. To
succeed him the student Christian Association has
chosen Munsey Gleaton of Philadelphia, graduate of
Wofford College, S. C. and the Yale Divinity School,
at present “Y” Secretary at Temple University and
Drexel Institute.

FARM BOY:

The Southside Virginia News of Petersburg, Va.
recently featured the career of Robert H. Tucker in
its columns, traced his steady rise from boyhood on
a southside Virginia farm to his present em-
inence in the field of Education and of Applied Ee-
onomics. Later, other papers announced that Dr.
Tucker would address the all-Virginia conference at
Virginia Beach on “Next Steps in Taxation and
Governmental Reorganization in Virginia”. No pa-
pers have yet measured Dr. Tucker’s influence upon

pt

i

 

ae ies?’

et ae eet Set RE A i i ks cg 2

at ira Ml oe Miia fe a tia

re Slings

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

progressive legislation in Virginia, and other South-
ern states, upon the thought of state and national po-
litical and economic leaders.

Indicative of his effectiveness and national promi-
nence is the wish expressed by Dr. Willford J. King,
famous statistician and economist, that Dr. Tucker’s
treatise on “Our Unstable Standard of Value,” pub-
lished in the United States Banker, “could be read
several times over by every citizen of the United
States ;” the fact that the Stable Money Association
and the American Association for Labor Legislation
have respectively ordered several thousand reprints of
Dr. Tucker’s articles on “Our Unstable Standard of
Value” for general distribution; the pronouncement
by Dr. John B. Andrews, editor of the American La-
bor Legislation Review that Dr. Tucker’s article on
“Workmen’s Compensation and the Employer” was
“the best concise statement from that angle that I have
seen in twenty years;” the fact that Dr. Tucker was
called into consultation preliminary to the drafting of
North Carolina’s Workmen’s Compensation Law last
spring.

FACULTY EXODUS:

Members of the Washington and Lee faculty are
located in widely scattered portions of the United
States during the summer.

Prof. Ollinger Crenshaw is at Johns Hopkins, pur-
suing work in the graduate school toward the doctor’s
degree. Professor Ellard and Mr. Mapel are teach-
ing at the University of Missouri.

Dr. Walter A. Flick is lecturing during the sum-
mer at Emory+University. W. B. Lott is studying
in the graduate school of Ohio State university.
Prof. Latture is doing graduate work at the Univer-
sity of Chicago, and Professors Earle K. Paxton and
H. Gray Funkhouser are at Columbia.

Dr. Henry V. Shelley motored to California with
his family and will spend the summer there. Dr.
Shannon is lecturing at the University of Virginia.
Dr. Hoyt and Dr. Howe are, as usual, spending the
summer in Massachusetts. Coach Archie E. Mathis
is at the University of Illinois, his alma mater.

ERRATA:

Pronounced as unjust, the language requirements
for graduation were mildly flayed under the heading
of “Sliding Scale” in the April ALUMNI MAGAZINE.
Investigation, without critical stimulation, showed
that requirements had been modified, that students
without preliminary language preparation were not
required to take the same courses as better prepared
students. Conditions referred to dated back several
years; the criticism was groundless, your editor in
error.

Entitled—“Where General Lee Worshipped” the
frontispiece of the April ALUmNr MAGAZINE was a
photograph of the Episcopal Church at the campus
walkway entrance. The building depicted was com-
pleted in 1882, twelve years after General Lee’s
death, on the same site as the old Episcopal Church
in which General Lee did worship. A small plate in
the present edifice marks the site of General Lee’s
pew in the old building. Correction was_ kindly
made by Hunter McDonald, ’79, alert and accurate
engineer, of Nashville, Tenn.

CURRICULAR CHANGES:

Radical changes in requirements for the Bachelor
of Arts degree at Washington and Lee were adopted
at a special meeting of the faculty Monday, May 6.

They will become effective with the opening of col-
lege in September and will affect all classes now in
the University except the Senior class.

New requirements:

(1) That two years of language be required in-
stead of four, for students entering with four years
of high or preparatory units in language.

(2) That in the requirements for the A. B. degree
the word “major” be used in lieu of the present
word “certificate’’.

(3) That the present three-group system be re-
placed by a four-group system.

(4) That 126 hours be required for graduation
instead of 124.

(5) That so far as practicable the semester be
made the basis of courses and credits instead of the
term or two semesters.

HENRY FORD:

Dr. Robert E. Dickey, 10, head of the Physics de-
partment at W. & L., has received several communi-
cations from Henry Ford relative to purchasing some
old physical laboratory equipment. Ford is interested
in equipping a museum to show the progress of
science and it is said that he will probably send an en-
gineer here this summer. ‘There is much interesting
old equipment in the possession of the physics depart-
ment. The first generating unit ever installed in the
South belongs to the University. It is a small gen-
erator run by a five horse power steam engine, and
was originally used for illuminating the old gym-
nasium during dances. It is thirty-five years old.
There are also old types of other electrical equip-
ment.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CALYX DEDICATION:

The 1929 Calyx, modernistic in design and unique
in arrangement, said by campus leaders to be the best
and most unusual year-book ever published at the
University, was dedicated to Prof. Carl Gill, ’22.

The futuristic design of the book is carried from
the dark brown cover through each division plate of
the volume. Colors are freely used. Grouping, es-
pecially in the athletic and feature sectioys, carries
out the general theme in a unique manner.

FACULTY INTRODUCTIONS:
Professor Ramon T. Johnson, A.B., J.D.

Our Law School alumni take particular pride in
the Law School, wish to see the professorial tradi-
tions of John Randolph Tucker, “Sunny Jim”
Staples, and “Daddy” Burks maintained, look hope-
fully to the present teaching staff, find satisfaction.

Not satisfactory was the departure of able, dynamic
Professor Lewis Tyree, °15, to bigger fields. He
left big shoes to be filled. Good fortune and Dean
Moreland brought Dr. Ramon T. Johnson from the
University of Chicago to try them on in 1925 while
Prof. Tyree was away on a year’s leave of absence.

Dr. Johnson returned to his native state of Ken-
tucky to practice his profession. Prof. Tyree finally

 

Ramon T. JoHNSON
Filled Big Shoes

yielded to the persistently tempting offers from the
New Jersey Law School, left a gaping vacancy,
Lawyer Johnson was recalled to fill the fitting shoes,
and so returned, became professor of Law, a quali-
fied complement in a growingly famous triumyerate
of Law professors, now known as Moreland, Wil-
liams and Johnson.

Kentucky bred, vintage of 97, A. B. University of
Kentucky, ’22; J. D. University of Chicago, ’25; as-
sistant Professor in the W. & L. Law School 1925-
26; Law practitioner at Louisville, Ky., 1926-27.
Professor of Law 1927, married in 1928, Dr. John-
son makes his home in Monroe Park at Lexington.
He retains a truly Kentucky interest in horse racing;
plays golf; studies the problems of Constitutional
Law; confesses to poor judgment as to the first;
poor form as to the second; and an inferiority com-
plex as for the third.

o,
a ee ee

ALUMNI
WHITHER BOUND?

Presidents Neilson of Smith College; Little of
Michigan; Jessup of Iowa; Chase of North Carolina;
President Keppel of the Carnegie Corporation; and
Mr. Cartwright of the American Association for
Adult Education, met with members of the American
Alumni Council’s Aims and Policies Committee, Lev-
ering H. Tyson, Columbia, Chairman. Object: To
define the relationships between alumni and their alma
maters, to discover ways and means for proper and
acceptable continuation of educational interest in
alumni by the colleges and universities and in the col-
leges and universities by the alumni.

The following excerpts from the Alumni Commit-
tee’s statement on the subject are pointedly indicative
of the American alumni situation today, might well
refer specifically to the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association :

“Prior to 1913 practically all alumni activity con-
sisted solely in the development of social contact be-
tween sections of the alumni themselves and the in-
stitutions or representatives thereof. There were
isolated instances indicating a deeper purpose but
these were hardly numerous enough to attract gen-
eral attention. Sporadic attempts by organized alumni
to be helpful educationally were generally spoiled by
representatives who were more vocal than sane and
most of these proved abortive so that either rightly of
wrongly a traditional feud between the organized
alumni and the institution existed.

“For nearly a dozen years.after 1913 the chief con-
sideration was ‘alumni technique.’ It was becoming
more and more apparent that the alumni were a pO-
tential force, but there were so many elements in the

  

ont

os

5
f
‘ia
= Bo
5
a
aa
As
ce
a
sm
-
—_
4
=
;
x
4
2
a
x

oF
by a) be
OF a Oe ie

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

situation that required foundation-laying from a purely
organization standpoint that the alumni themselves were
prone to miss the woods for the trees. For this rea-
son and because of the intervention of the war with
its concomitants this purely organization period has
been unduly prolonged. Today, however, we feel very
strongly that even though purely organization prob-
lems will always present themselves in alumni affairs,
basic organization questions have been reasonably
well solved. The alumni themselves realize and feel
strongly the futility of organizing solely for the sake
of organization. To use a worn out phrase they feel
they are all dressed up with no place to go. ‘They
believe there are several invitations pending but feel
sure that the alumni prefer not to crash the gate un-
til they are certain of the welcome to be accorded
them by their host or hostess. They admit frankly
that on occasion they have violated social proprieties
in this regard, and individually having learned their
lesson, prefer to make sure of their reception al-
though they feel certain they can contribute consid-
erable to the party’s entertainment.

“The most valuable evidence proving that the alumni
themselves recognize the end of this period of or-
ganization has come is the character of the programs
and discussions demanded for each national (Associ-
ation of Alumni Secretaries) conference. The very
fact that such programs over the last three years have
all concluded with a question, in effect, “Where are we
going ultimately?’ is firm indication that our clientele
is giving serious thought to the goal, which they recog-
nize very clearly has been indistinct.

“Other evidence is the recent wholesale departure
from the alumni field of men and women who en-
tered it with enthusiasm and who have devoted to it
a considerable and notable degree of energy. These
individuals, after recording genuine success in their
jobs from a mere organization standpoint, see their
work accomplished and no next step. Some move
directly into the field of university administration
which holds out security of tenure. Others desert
education entirely for business. In practically every
case the cause of education has lost a firm support
and lost him only because he regarded his work as
done. He saw nothing in the alumni field to do next.

“As further evidence we present the additional
modern phenomenon of the alumnus who no longer
loudly proclaims his loyalty to alma mater but who is
inclined to demand a quid pro quo. Throughout the
entire alumni field we gather this changed sentiment.
From the standpoint of organization solely this pre-
sents acute problems to the alumni executive officer
who must have members as his clay to work with and
a reasonably sympathetic constituency from which to
garner that membership. But from the standpoint
of this particular study even more difficult elements

are injected into the situation which flare back into
the student life of these same alumni. For we alumni
find that there are being graduated into the alumni
ranks each year men and women who not only seri-
ously question the value of joining an alumni organi-
zation from any standpoint other than a quid pro quo
basis, but who, after being exposed to college educa-
tion for from one to five years, not only question the
value of their experience but the value of higher edu-
cation, as at present conducted, at all. It may very
easily come about that one of the most valuable find-
ings of this conference will be the selection of some
means to clarify in the minds of alumni while they
are yet students, not what the alumni association will
give him for his three or five dollars but what he’s
in college for, what his college or university exists
for, and what it has done and is doing to justify its
existence. It is even possible that if we get this far,
a great many institutions which have not done so as
yet will find it for their best interests to get a bit in-
trospective themselves and look to where they are go-
ing and what kind of education they are providing
the citizenry storming their citadels.

“From the standpoint of this study that alumnus
is least valuable whose blind loyalty carries him no
further than a deep belief that his recollection of
things as they were during four impressionable years
of his youth are best. We readily admit that this
type of alumnus has been vocal above all others dur-
ing this organization period, but he is losing ground,
just as in our undergraduate ranks the ‘collegiate’
youth is almost passé. The underlying cause for all
this is changing educational conditions. The alumnus
of the nineties or pre-war days cannot understand
and does not understand these modern conditions and
for that reason, generally speaking, the alumni are
least competent at present to advise in strictly educa-
tional matters. We admit this frankly, and we don’t
presume to suggest that we alumni take a hand there.
It is in this growing realization in modern life that
graduation from college is indeed a Commencement
that we think we can be of service to educational in-
stitutions, bringing to bear the full force of our ability
and experience in organization.

“But here we must stop. The administrations and
faculties must recognize the demand of the adult pub-
lic for the intellectual food which they look to the col-
leges and universities to supply. The alumni, in addi-
tion to supplying a public to create it, can and we be-
lieve will, if properly directed, throw the weight of
their organizing experience and ability in the alumni
and other fields back of any well-devised attempt to
meet it. If we as a national organization single-handed
attempted to recommend an educational program of
adult education involving our institutions with the
alumni public without the help of our respective edu-

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

cational officials, we, although at this time our sug-
gestions would be entirely sound from every stand-
point, would nevertheless lay ourselves open to the
same accusations, thoroughly justified on former oc-
casions of interfering sentimentally in things which
are not our business.

“Although for many years the alumni, open to
criticism as we confess ourselves in some particulars,
have listened with approval and sympathy to demands
from our institutions, there are indications already
that these same alumni are ready to about face and
solicit from the colleges and universities a corres-
ponding attention to their intellectual life, even though
it may mean challenging some of the established and
ingrained attitudes toward education which have ob-
tained in this country up to the present time.”

WILLIAM R. PERKINS, ’96:

William Robertson Perkins of New York City, on
whom Washington and Lee the past June conferred
LL.D., was born on a farm at Elmington, Nelson
County, Virginia, Nov. 3rd, 1875, the son of Thomas
Benjamin Moore Perkins, and Judith Clough Per-
kins, both natives of Nelson County. ‘The family
moved to Lynchburg, Virginia, early in 1890 and there
young Perkins attended the public schools, graduating
from the Lynchburg High School at the head of his
class in June, 1895. Mr. Perkins enjoyed the dis-

 

W. R. Perkins
Not One Word Too Meany

tinction of having been on the Roll of Honor duri
his entire attendance on the public schools of Lynch-
burg.

After reading law a few months in the office of
Burroughs and Noell, he borrowed money and en-
tered the Washington and Lee Law School the fall
of 1896, completing the course in one year and win-
ning the law prize then awarded to the student who
made the highest average grade in Senior Law
throughout the session.

The law faculty at that time consisted of John Ran-
dolph Tucker, Charles A. Graves and John W. Davis
and no abler faculty ever assembled at any American
law school. Many students since highly distinguished
in their profession were members of the class, but
Perkins soon became recognized as an unmistakable
leader. He was remarkably concise in all his expres-
sions both written and oral, a characteristic which has
followed him throughout life. He would always fin-
ish his examination by one o’clock, being the first man
to get through, and his pages were invariably the
fewest in number. Others would continue to write
until nine or ten o'clock at night, handing in at least

twice as much manuscript. On one occasion Profes-

sor Graves remarked concerning an examination pa-
per, that Mr. Perkins had not used one word too
many or one word too few.

After taking the Virginia Bar examination Mr.
Perkins entered upon the practice of law in August,
1897, at Lynchburg as a partner of Judge J. Single-
ton Diggs. This. partnership continued until May,
1901, when Mr. Perkins went to Newport News, Vir-
ginia. ‘There he practiced until October, 1906.

In October, 1906, he went to New York as one of
the counsels of The American Tobacco Co. Upon the
disintegration of The American Tobacco Co. under
the decree of the Federal Court in 1911, he became
counsel for P. Lorillard Company, one of the four
large tobacco concerns created by this disintegration.
In November, 1913, Mr. Perkins became personal
counsel for Messrs. James B. and Benjamin N. Duke
and their extensive interests, which position he re-
tained until the death of these gentlemen. In this ca-
pacity he drew their wills and voluntary trusts, among
the latter being the trust created by James B. Duke,
known as The Duke Endowment, which is one of the
largest beneficences of this country. Mr. Perkins is
one of the executors of the estate of James B. Duke,
and also one of the executors of the Estate of Ben-
jamin N. Duke. He is a Trustee and Vice-Chairman
of The Duke Endowment; a Trustee of Duke Uni-
versity; a Director and Vice-President of Duke
Power Co., and in addition, counsel for the foregoing
and P. Lorillard Co., American Cyanamid Co., Amer-
ican counsel for the British-American Tobacco Co.,
Ltd., and other large corporations. ‘The opinion on

   

Lh ee

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ‘fa

corporation law of no counsellor is more highly val-
ued than that of Mr. Perkins.

On November 5th, 1902, he married Miss Mary S.
Bell, of Lynchburg. By this marriage he has three
children, William R. Perkins, Jr., Thomas L. Per-
kins and Mary C. Perkins.

Mr. Perkins is a Methodist and has been active in
church, Sunday School and Y. M. C. A. work wher-
ever he has lived. He forms a striking exception to
the observation that the wild boy makes good in after
life and the man who stands at the head of his class
is never heard of when commencement is over. He
is a man of singular modesty and has always shunned
publicity. One would never suspect from his unob-
trusive bearing a giant of the American bar.

BORDEN BURR, ’98:

Law, investments, insurance, Y. M. C. A. service
in America and in France, politics, and fraternity ac-
tivity are some of the interests establishing the worth-
while career of Borden Burr, LL.B., 1898. Born in
Alabama in 1876, Mr. Burr had achieved an A.B.
degree from the University of Alabama and a law de-
gree from Washington and Lee by the age of twenty-
two. He was a member’ of both the varsity football
and baseball teams while at the University.

Mr. Burr practiced law in Talladega, Alabama.
from 1898 to 1909, and then moved to Birmingham
where he has since been a member of the firm of
Percy, Benners and Burr. His legal interests have
extended far beyond the scope of his private prac-
tice: he was chairman of the Alabama State Bar As-
sociation in 1908, and was largely responsible for the
legislative act of 1923, incorporating and creating a
self-governing Bar; he is the author of the present
Alabama election laws and compensation act and co-
author of the workman's act. His business operations
include the presidency of the Burr Investment Com-
pany, the Rockhouse Land Company and the Walsh
Insurance Agency, as well as directorships in several
corporations.

Mr. Burr has rendered distinctive service to the Y.
M. C. A. He was state chairman for Alabama from
1914 to 1918, and has been a member of the Inter-
national Committee of the Y. M. C. A. During 1918
he served as a “Y” worker with the Rainbow Division
in France.

In politics Mr. Burr is an active and prominently
known Democrat. He was a delegate to the Dem-
ocratic National Conventions of 1904, 1912 and 1924
and has been chairman of the Alabama State Dem-
ocratic Campaign Committee. He is a past regent of
Sigma Nu and a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

Mr. Burr has been twice married, first to Miss
Mamie Camp in 1898, and after her death to Miss

3a Sag Ze

 

BorpEN Burr, '98
Varsity Footballer, Baseballer

Nell Forman in 1907. He has two children. His
office is in the Brown-Marx Building and his home
at 1969 South 33rd Street, Birmingham.

HUGH MERCER BLAIN, ’95:

Hugh Mercer Blain, M.A., ’95, of New Orleans,
has been honored by the National Electric Light As-
sociation with membership on two of its important
committees—the Educational Committee, which pro-
motes employee education in electric companies
throughout the nation; and the Committee on Co-.
operation with Higher Educational Institutions.
These honors are in recognition of Dr. Blain’s out-
standing work in industrial education in the South-
west, where he has placed the Southwestern Division
of the N. E. L. A. at the top of all the 13 Divisions
in employee educational progress, and has built up a
cooperative spirit between the power companies and
the universities of his section to their mutual advan-
tage.

As a result of this work, he was honored with a
place on the program of the Southwestern Division
N. E. L. A. annual convention held in Hot Springs,
Ark., April 30 to May 3. The subject of his ad-
dress, which was pronounced by high executives as
the best talk on that subject they had ever heard,
was “The Possibilities of Educational Work.”

Dr. Blain’s career has well fitted him for this im-
portant work in the business world. After leaving

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Dr. Hucw Mercer Brain, 95
—Honored by Nela

W. & L. he was Instructor in English at the Uni-
versity of Virginia, assisting the distinguished Prof.
James A. Harrison, under whom he had studied here.
At the same time he pursued graduate work in En-
glish and Modern Languages and took his Ph.D. in
1901.

During 13 years as Professor of English at
Louisiana State University, he became interested in
Journalism and built up a course there which became
known throughout the educational world as_ the
pioneer in the combination of theory and_ practice.
Dr. Blain served as managing editor of the Baton
Rouge State-Times (daily) and used his students in
every capacity on the paper. This department has
recently developed into a four-year School of Jour-
nalism.

Dr. Blain later headed the Journalism Department
of ‘Tulane University, New Orleans, for two years.
When the Information Bureau work of the public
utilities was organized in 1923, he accepted the di-
rectorship of the Louisiana-Mississippi Bureau and
still holds that position.

He is the author of a recent historical study of the
old New Orleans, “A Near Century of Public Serv-
ice in New Orleans”, (a copy of which has been con-
tributed to the Alumni Club Room). This has given
him recognition among the distinguished literati of

the Crescent City. He also holds the Governor’s ap- a
pointment as a member of the Louisiana Library
Commission, which is outstanding in the Southern _
States for its promotion of county and community

libraries, with the aim of placing worthwhile books

-
i

within reach of every person in Louisiana.

-
*

  
  
 
 
 

amr
oe
at
4
- el

ei

In acknowledgment of his successful career as an a

educator, his Alma Mater selected Dr. Blain as one .

of a small number of her sons to become charter
members of the W. & L. chapter of Phi Beta Kappa
in 1911. In return, he has proved a loyal son, di-
recting many choice youths to the old college and
gathering around him for organization the alumni of
his city and state. He is now serving his fourth year
as president of the Louisiana Alumni Association,
which under his guidance has become one of the
most active of our alumni bodies.

HOSPITAL SUPERINTENDENT:

Dr. Edwin P. Bledsoe, ’00, medical officer in
charge of the Veterans Bureau Hospital at North

Chicago, Ill., has been appointed to succeed Dr. J.

Clement Clark, superintendent of the Springfield a

State Hospital for thirty years. The committee ap-
pointed to select Dr. Clark’s successor reported that

they considered Dr. Bledsoe thoroughly qualified in 3
experience, knowledge and executive ability for the

position at Springfield and feel that the institution

and the State are most fortunate in securing him.

Dr. Bledsoe went to Baltimore to assume his new du-
ties in May.

Dr. Bledsoe is a Virginian.
ical education at the College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, graduating in 1905. After serving two years
as an interne at Mercy Hospital he became assistant

physician at the Central State Hospital in Virginia,

and then nine years as superintendent of the Arkan-
sas State Hospital.

He received his med- |

He served overseas during the World War as 4s

medical officer in the army. Since his return he has
been first clinical director and afterward medical of-
ficer in charge in a number of United States Veter-
ans’ Bureau hospitals.
is now a student at Washington and Lee.

STEEL SUPERINTENDENT:

After serving for several years as Assistant Supef-
intendent of the Donora Steel Works and Furnaces,
of Donora, Penn., A. Frederic White, 01, was om
May Ist made Superintendent of that corporation.

Graduating from Washington and Lee with an x

AB. in 1901, a B.S. in Chemistry and M.A. in
1904, a M.S. in 1905, and a PhD. in 1906, Mr.

White went to Donora where he was occupied 25> 5

His son E. P. Bledsoe, Jt !

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

Chemist. It was not long afterwards that he be-
came associated with his present corporation.

Mr. White has been a resident of Donora for so
long that he might be well classed as a native son.
There is none in the community held in wider re-
spect nor higher esteem and the honor which has be-
come his will be a source of much gratification to
all.

PHI BETA KAPPA INITIATION:

Judge Henry W. Holt, ’87, successor to the late

Judge Martin P. Burks, ’70, on the Virginia Su-
preme Court of Appeals, George C. Peery, ’97, law-
yer and former Congressman, and C. H. Morrissett,
15, State Tax Commissioner, came to Lexington,
were initiated as members of the local chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa, received the famed “key”, symbol
of high scholastic attainment, banquetted at the
Dutch Inn, heard a prepared address by R. M.
Hughes, of Norfolk in company with thirteen un-
dergraduate initiates. |

The unusually comprehensive initiation program
was arranged by Dr. G. D. Hancock, Dean of the
Commerce School and Dr. L. W. Smith, ’96, Pro-
fessor of Mathematics.

RICHARD C. STOKES, ’05:

Alumni who trekked enthusiastically to the Home
Coming game with V. P. I. last fall and who wiped
out the sting of the afternoon’s defeat by attendance
at the alumni supper that followed will recall delight-
edly the sparkling tonic of the main speech of the
evening, which was the splendid costumed character-
ization of Dr. Durnburgh, eminent professor of the
University of Pittsburgh by Richard C. Stokes, LL.B.,
05, of Covington, Va.

Members of the Smith Gift Committee, scanning
the list of alumni for an alumnus to give fitting voice
to alumni sentiment in presenting President Smith
with a silver service at Commencement, happily re-
called Mr. Stokes’ talented Home-coming Day pre-
sentation and grasped success by securing his accept-
ance of their invitation to represent the alumni in
that presentation.

An ability to give fluent and dramatic expression
to the fruit of vigorous and intelligent thinking has
blazed the trail of “Dick” Stokes’ successful career.
Graduated from Hampden-Sydney in 1902, he won
the Senior Oratorical medal there, and during his
stay at Washington and Lee he was awarded the cov-
eted inter-society Orator’s Medal. He was active so-
cially at the University, and his dramatic talents drove
through to success numerous theatrical ventures.

Mr. Stokes has practiced law in Covington since
1915. For the past fifteen years he has been the city

 

Ricwarp C. Strokes, ’05
Characterized Dr. Durnburgh

attorney and represents, among other corporations,
the Industrial Rayon Corporation of Cleveland. His
successful blending of executive leadership with ora-
torical talent has achieved for him the presidency of
the Covington-Hot Springs Rotary Club and the Cov-
ington Chamber of Commerce. As a graceful and
stimulating speaker he responds to frequent requests
for addresses throughout Virginia and other states.
Mr. Stokes is a Mason, a Knight Templar, and is a
deacon in the Presbyterian Church.

ROOM AND BOARD IN 1793:

Meals served to the 25 students of Washington and
Lee University in 1793 may be compared in many
ways to those served at some fraternity houses today,
with the exception of $245.67 annual difference in
price.

Living expense at this early date was very cheap.
In 1793 a steward in the dormitory served meals,
made the beds, and cleaned the room twice a week
for the meager sum of $23.33 a year. The meals con-
sisted of: Breakfast—Bread and butter, with tea, cof-
fee or chocolate; Dinner—Bread, vegetables, and
either beef or pork; Supper—Bread, butter, and milk.

A room in the academy building cost fifty cents a
session, and if more than four lived in one room it
was $2 for all. Tuition for the year not more than
$50. —From The Ring-Tum Phi.

 

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Dozier DeEVANE, ‘08
“Awarded the Imperial Hambone”

DOZIER A. DEVANE, ’08:

When alumni gather together Dozier DeVane will
be on hand if his business permits, whether it be for
the Home-coming game or Commencement. Charter
alumni members of the Ham Society gathered at the
Alumni Building after the witching hour during the
Final Ball, solemnly initiated stately lawyer DeVane
into the mystic rites adopted by that constant and con-
sistent coterie of current Commencement commuters.
He achieved a high rating for consumption and was
awarded the imperial hambone.

During business hours Dozier DeVane serves as
General Counsel for the Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company with headquarters at Washing-
ton, D. C., where he settled after practicing law in his
native State of Florida.

His first work after graduation with an LL.B. in
1908, was at Tampa, near his native city of Lake-
land. There he became Commonwealth’s Attorney of
Hillsborough County. He became counsel for the
Railroad Commission of Florida in 1918 and contin-
ued in that office until 1920 when he was appointed
Rate Attorney for the American Telephone and Tel-
egraph Company, with headquarters in New York
City. He was appointed to his present position in
192Z and has made his home with his wife and two
children at 3422 36th Street, N. W., Washington,
AS.

His has been a steady rise in his profession, from

the ranks of the local practitioner and the legal staff
of large corporations to the headship and direction of
such corporation work.

Mr. DeVane is a member of the Presbyterian
Church, a member of the Masonic Fraternal] Order
and a member of the Phi Kappa Sigma National col-
lege fraternity. Locally he belongs to the Cosmos
Club, the Columbia and Congressional Country Clubs
and the Southern Society.

SUMMER VISITORS:

Registering at the Alumni Building since Com-
mencement were E. A. C. Hoge, ’07, construction
engineer of Cincinnati, Ohio; A. B. McMullen, ’08,
lawyer of Tampa, Fla., and Ralph D. Hummel, ’20,
chemist of Detroit, Mich., where he is assistant pro-
duction manager of the Parke-Davis Chemical Com-
pany.

A welcome and frequent visitor has been Judge
William A. Bell, "95, one-time trustee of Washington
and Lee and prominent attorney and jurist of New —
Orleans, who is spending the summer in Lexington
after a long and serious illness which has confined
him to a hospital for the past year.

Lewis Tyree, °15, one-time professor in the Wash-
ington and Lee Law school, now professor of Law
at the New Jersey Law School, at Newark, N. J.,
has been a frequent visitor to Lexington where his
family is spending the summer. Prof. Tyree is con-
ducting special summer law classes at the New Jer-
sey school.

GIFT:

For the further protection of the Lee Chapel the
International Fire Equipment Corporation has con-
tributed an ample supply of their Shur-Stop fire ex-
tinguishers. ‘This gift was generously made by the
company through the attention of active and attentive
trustee, Judge Charles J. McDermott, of New York
City.

BOOK DONATIONS:

Upon request, Dr. Thomas Jesse Jones, ’92, Edu-
cational Director of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, pre
sented the Alumni Assn. with an autographed copy
of his latest work “The Essentials of Civilization”
and of his “Essentials of Education” for the Alummt
Club room.

In his gracious presentation, Dr. Jones inscribed the
following on the flyleaf of one volume, “To. the
Alumni Club Room of Washington and Lee Umivet-
sity, where Southern Chivalry and Statesmanship have
been realized in Word and Deed. Sincerely, Thomas
Jesse Jones.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

POPULAR PROFESSOR:

Students at the University of North Dakota se-
lected their ten most representative professors in
popular poll conducted by the “Dakota Student”,
campus newspaper. Of the ten chosen only three
had been at the institution less than ten years.
Among the three was Solly A. Hartzo, ’19, head of
their Political Science department, one time Assist-
ant Political Scientist at Washington and Lee;
Washington and Lee” Commerce School graduate of
1919. Popular politics professor Hartzo’s photo-
graph was published among the other nine in the
Grand Forks (N. D.) Herald under the caption
“Outstanding Faculty Members at State U.”

POLITICS:

George C. Peery, ’97, twice Democratic Congress-
man from the Republican Seventh District of Vir-
ginia, 1929 Phi Beta Kappa initiate, father of Jun-
ior Student A. G. Peery, lawyer and business man
of Tazewell, Va., declined to enter the race for the
Democratic gubernatorial nomination “in hope of
promoting harmony in the party.”

Virginia Lieutenant-Governor Junius E. West,
87, of Suffolk, first to announce his candidacy for
the governorship of Virginia, withdrew from the
race “in the interest of party harmony,” left the
field to Candidates J. G. Pollard, Dean of the Wil-
liam and Mary School of Business Administration,
one time Attorney-General of Virginia, and G. Wal-
ter Mapp, one time State Senator.

Virginia Republicans and independent Democrats
contemplated the possible victory of Dr. Pollard in
the Democratic primary, the nomination of Dr. Wm.
M. Brown, °14, Washington and Lee professor of
Education and Psychology, for governor on a coali-
tion ticket, the possible gubernatorial election cam-
paign between the two eminent professors.

Others envisioned the possibility of present Gov-
ernor H. F. Byrd becoming President of Wash-
ington and Lee and of Dr. Brown, Washington and
Lee professor and presidential prospect, becoming
Governor.

Oft mentioned as a candidate for Governor was
James H. Price, ’09, of Richmond. Instead, he be-
came candidate for Lieutenant-Governor. His de-
clared opponent for the post withdrew; no other has
been announced.

BUST:

Washington, D. C., newspapers recently carried
photographs of Joseph <A. Atcheson, Washington
sculptor, and his bust of Wade H. Ellis, B.L. ’89,
prominent Washington attorney, formerly Attorney-

General of Ohio and assistant U. S. Attorney-Gen-
eral during the Roosevelt administration. The bust
was placed on exhibition at the National Museum.

ENFORCEMENT PLAN:

Calling for a “fair and square show down” with
a view to more effective prohibition enforcement,
Wade H. Ellis, ’89, assistant to the Attorney General
during the Taft administration, has advanced the pro-
posal that Federal government funds for this purpose
be withheld from states which are not cooperating in
upholding the dry laws.

His plan, he believes, would inspire “a greater
sense of personal and local responsibility” under the
concurrent power for enforcement granted in the 18th
amendment and would “have an immediate and elec-
trical effect all over the country.”

“Tt means,” he explained in a radio address broad-
cast under the auspices of the District of Columbia
Sons of the American Revolution, “merely that where
the people of any one of the States show, by their
legislation and administration, that they want the boot-
legger or the saloon, the United States Government
will let them enjoy the company of their choice.”

TWO AMONG ELEVEN:

Key to President Hoover’s administration pro-
gram, bed rock of his pre and post edition pro-
1ouncements is the matter of Law Enforcement.

To study the question and make recommendations
he formally created a Law Enforcement Commis-
sion May 20th, invited eleven men of outstanding
ability and national prominence to serve as mem-
bers. ‘Two are alumni of Washington and Lee.

Sitting as ranking member at the right hand of
the chairman will be Newton D. Baker, B.L. '94,
War Secretary under President Wilson, member of
the International Court of Arbitration, Trustee of
Washington and Lee, whom political pundit, Frank
R. Kent pronounced as the only Wilsonian Demo-
crat to consistently maintain the Woodrow Wilson
political idealism.

Among the four lawyers of national prominence
appointed to serve on the commission is Henry W.
Anderson, B.L. 98, of Richmond, Va., outstanding
Virginia Republican leader, one-time counsel for
C. & O. R. R. minority stockholders against the
Van Swearingen Brothers (merger proposal) who
were represented by counsel Newton D. Baker,
(above). All of the eleven appointees are college
graduates. Washington and Lee is the only Uni-
versity to be represented on the commission by two
alumni.

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
SUED: Streit was captain and halfback. It boasted of fam-

Basil M. Manly, ’06, son of Dr. Charles M.
Manly, long the beloved Lexington pastor for whom
the present Manly Memorial Baptist Church is
named, has become famed as a Washington News-
paper correspondent. He was publicity director for
the LaFollette Independents in the 1924 presidential
campaign, a partizan writer in the Smith-Hoover
campaign.

Correspondent Manly recently “‘covered” the gov-
ernment investigation of the International Paper
Company’s newspaper purchases, referred to the
Bryan-Thomason Newspapers, Inc., syndicated . his
articles to the Richmond, Va., Times Dispatch,
among others.

Publisher John Stewart Bryan, alumnus of the
U. of Va., recipient of an honorary degree (Litt.
D. 1911) from, and benefactor of Washington and
Lee, publisher of the rival Richmond News Leader
co-owner of the discussed Bryan-Thomason news-
papers, filed suit for libel against the Times Dis-
patch, named correspondent Manly a defendant in
the suit.

TEAM OF ’07:

“Pat” Krebs and “Buster” Brown coached the
Generals’ football team of ’07. C. W. (“Bill”)

 

C. W. Srrert, Jr., 08

A Decisive Gridiron Factor

ous W. & L. stars “Dutch” Alderson, Full; “Rg”
Brown, Half; “Johnny” Izard, and Larry Wilson,
Quarters; “Hi” Dow and “Rube” Waddiil, Ends;
“Pat” Osborne and H. M. White, Tackles; “Dick”
Morales and Fort Pipes, Guards; Clyde Hoge and
J. H. Larrick, Centers. Roscoe Stephenson was
manager.

The season was featured by victory over the U.
of Va., a tie with the U. of N. C. and a loss to y.
Ps.

A master clarion call might again summon this
galaxy to Wilson Field. ‘Twenty-two years have not
thinned the ranks, have not dimmed the luster of
their football glories.

“Bill” Streit is salesmanager of the Southern
Cement Co. at Birmingham, Ala. E. L. (“Dutch”)
Alderson, a travelling salesman with headquarters
at Houston, Texas; “Ed” Brown, General Agent
for the Penn Mutual Life Ins. Co., Chattanooga,
Tenn. John Izard General Attorney for the Conn.
Life Ins. Co., Hartford, Conn.; Larry Wilson an
engineer and orchardist at Woodstock, Va.; H. M.
(“Hi”) Dow, a lawyer, Roswell, New Mexico; R.
A. (“Rube”) Waddill a Washington, D. C., realtor;
C. S. (“Pat”) Osborne, coach and athletic director
at Yale; Henry M. White, president of the Sea-
board Mortgage Co., Baltimore, Md.; Fort Pipes, a
real estate and insurance man at New Orleans;
“Dick” Morales, Tampa, Fla., lawyer; Clyde Hoge,
a construction engineer at Cincinnati, Ohio; J. H.
Larrick, manager of the Parrish Ranch, Bristol, Colo.

STREIT:

Each of the 1907 gridmen have retained a vicari-
ous interest in athletics. Most of them have re-
turned for the annual W. & L.-Va. grid classic at
one time or another. But “Bill” Streit has been in
closer contact with Southern Intercollegiate Athlet-
ics than any of his former team mates, perhaps more
so than any other one living man.

After leaving Washington and Lee in 1908 he be-
came a salesman for the Southern Cement Co.,
joined the Birmingham Athletic Club, played basket-
ball and ran on their track team for six years. He
studied the changing football rules closely, became
an outstanding-football referee, has officiated in over
500 football games, is an executive of the Southern
Football Conference Officials Association.

Indicatory of his reputation as a referee is the
fact that for sixteen consecutive years he has of-
ficiated in the annual Sewanee-Vanderbilt Thanks-
giving classic, for eighteen consecutive years refereed
the annual Birmingham-Southern Howard College

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

grid scrap in Birmingham. He was selected to of-
ficiate in the Ga. Tech.-California New Year’s game
at Pasadina.

In addition he has been president of the Birming-
ham Athletic Club, a manager of the American
Olympic Team at Paris and Amsterdam in 1924 and
1928 and is president of the Southeastern Amateur
Athletic Union. Withal, he has become _ sales-
manager of his firm.

Well qualified to write a needed history of South-
ern Intercollegiate Athletics, Bill Streit is an  out-
standing representative of the team of 07 who has
trailed the glories of college sports across a near
quarter century of progress.

AT GENEVA—JOHN HERNDON, 711:

John Herndon studied economics and _ business
administration at Washington and Lee, graduated in
1911, specialized in those subjects at the University
of Wisconsin, became an income tax expert with
headquarters at Philadelphia, retired, spent last fall
and winter abroad.

At Geneva Mr. Herndon acted as Secretary to the
American delegation at the general meeting of
government experts for the prevention of inter-
national double taxation and fiscal evasion, studied
the workings and ramifications of the League of
Nations, under whose auspices the meeting was held,
visited with Francis P. Miller, ’14, newly appointed
General Secretary of the World Student Christian
Federation with headquarters at Geneva, attended
the famed summer school of Dr. Zimmern, delivered
a lecture on International Law.

Back home after Christmas Mr. Herndon became
lecturer in Economics and Political Science at
Haverford College, Pa., came to Lexington for a
visit during a short holiday, brought refreshing ideas
on proposed changes in the Calendar, upon the
teaching of conversational languages in the Foreign
Language departments of American Universities,
and upon the work of the League of Nations.

Before students in the School of Commerce Mr.
Herndon instructively and _ interestingly outlined
these ideas, sought to induce discussion among at-
tentively listening students, was nonplused by a
seeming lack of intellectual curiosity.

As a lecturer at Haverford, Mr. Herndon encour-
aged research work by the abolition of classes and
final examinations for ranking seniors. At the close
of the session he was elected as professor of Econom-
ics and Political Science at Haverford. In that ca-
pacity he will create a new department at the institu-
tion.

A frequent and welcome visitor to Lexington and
the campus, John Herndon manifests a wholesome

 

J. G. Hernpon, ’11
At Geneva

and constructive educational interest in Washington
and Lee, a generous and active interest in the
Alumni Association, Inc.

FRANCIS P. MILLER, ’14:

In Francis P. Miller, Washington and Lee claims
the leader of the largest and in many respects the
most important student Christian organization in the
world, the World Student Christian Federation.
At the January meeting of the Executive Committee
of the Federation, held in India, Mr. Miller was
elected to succeed John R. Mott. Elected at thirty-
three to follow in office probably the foremost
Christian statesman of America, Mr. Miller brings
to his task a leadership of recognized ability in
national and inter-national Christian activity.

The World Student Christian Federation, of
which he assumes the General Secretaryship, has
over 300,000 student members, drawn from _ the
student Christian movements organized in twenty-
four countries and existing in a lesser organized de-
gree in twenty-one other countries, making a total of
forty-five countries represented. Probably no other
movement today has so truly a world character as
this movement. The contribution of the Federation
in material aid to European students during the re-
construction period in Europe, following the World
War, was marked by successful achievement and to-
day the achievement of its aim “to exalt Christ in
the student world” is widespread and startlingly ef-
fective.

36 THE ALUMNI

 

Francis P. MILueér, *14
Succeeded John R. Mott

Francis Miller entered Washington and Lee when
he was fifteen years old, never having been to school
except to his mother. He completed the A.B. work
in three years and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
He was president of the Harry Lee crew while in
college and was active in Christian and _ forensic
work. He was a member of the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity. Following his graduation he was con-
nected for some years with the United States head-
quarters of the Y. M. C. A., achieving a position as
one of the best known student leaders in this coun-
try. He served in Europe as an officer during the
World War and following that was appointed a
Rhodes Scholar from the State of New York at
Oxford. For the past several years he has been
Administrative Secretary of the W. S. C. F. with
offices at Geneva.

LINDBERGH’S GHOST:

The literary ghost of Col. Charles A. Lindbergh
revealed himself at the annual meeting of the Amer-
ican Society of Newspaper Editors, held in Wash-
ington, D. C., April 19th.

Frankly appearing as the actual writer of many
newspaper articles labelled in large, black type, “by
Col. Charles A. Lindbergh”, I. K. Shuman, 17, now
executive editor of the Brooklyn Standard Union,

 

MAGAZINE

read the editors a paper on the subject of “vhost
writing.”

As a reporter for the New York Times, Shuman
accompanied Lindbergh on his flights through Mex-
ico, Central America and the West Indies, Writing
under Laindbergh’s signature first personal accounts
of the trip.

“Lindbergh has had as many as seven ghosts at one
time,” Shuman told the editors, many of whom have
published articles bearing the aviation idol’s signature.
“T am only one of them.”

BACK TO CHINA:

Rev. C. Houston Patterson, 19, for the past two
years secretary of the Y. M. C. A. at Washington and
Lee, will sail for China from San Francisco on Aug.
16 to resume his missionary work. Mr. Patterson was
forced to leave China during the unrest of the revolu-
tion in 1927 and while in this country has been occu-
pied with the Y. M. C. A. at Washington and Lee. He
resigned this position early in the spring announcing
that he would return to China this summer, but no
definite date was given for his sailing until last week.
Mr. Patterson will return to his station at Sutsien
about 300 miles north of Shanghai, an interior station
of the Southern Presbyterian Mission.

Mr. Patterson is a son of Rev. B. Craig Patterson,
87, Missionary to China. He attended Washington
and Lee University and Union Theological seminary
and in 1923 went to China. He married in the sum-
mer of 1923 Miss Frances Glasgow of Lexington.
Mrs. Patterson and their children will accompany him
to China.

OPERATIC DEBUT:

On May 9th, Roy Nichols made his operatic debut
in a major baritone role, in “Carmen” with the Boston
Opera Company. ‘This is the event of the two “in-
troductory” performances of the opera company.
The opening of a complete season is deferred until
next fall and critics, who witnessed the rehearsals
and expressed their praise of the excellence of voices
and acting, predict a most brilliant debut for Mr.
Nichols.

Through the ability he has shown in “Carmen” he
has been engaged for leading roles in “Rigoletto”,
“Bagliacci”, “Faust”, “Aida”, “Il Travatore’, the
only male role in “Hansel and Gretchel”’, and will be
booked for other operas which will be included in
the repertoire for next season.

Mr. Nichols, who is a native of Norfolk, Va., be-
gan his musical career in the boy choir of Christ
Church in that city, later singing there as baritone
soloist.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

 

ane \

Roy G. NicuHo.rs, ’27
Glee Club, Musical Comedy, Opera

Entering Washington and Lee in the fall of 1921,
Mr. Nichols became associated with the Glee Club
of which he later became president; vice-president of
the Troubadours, as well as affiliated with a number
of fraternal organizations. After his second year at
the University he remained out of college for two
years, studying voice during that time with an assis-
tant from Author J. Hubbard’s studios and showing
such excellent possibilities that many southern critics
prevailed on him to study for a musical career. How-
ever, he decided to complete his college course, and
returned to Washington and Lee in 1926 graduating
in June, 1927, with the degree of B.S. After his
graduation he made his headquarters in Boston, study-
ing with Jessie Fleming Vose.

On April 14th, Mr. Nichols was engaged as guest
soloist for the morning and evening services at the
Penney Memorial Church, Augusta, Me., where he
was heard in several sacred numbers. His voice was
described as a “powerful baritone of lovely quality
and wide range.”

One of the famous critics says of Roy Nichols:
“The quality of his voice is exceptionally rich—his
style of singing is most artistic—his personality is
excellent.” Another, in writing of his eight week
engagement as leading man in one of the season’s
Broadway musical successes, said: “Roy Nichols
brought the house down with his wonderful rich bari-

tone voice. The audience was. held _ spellbound
through the rendition of his vocal numbers.”

Just prior to the rehearsals in May, Mr. Nichols
wrote the Alumni, Inc., office: “Have a very busy
week ahead of me so am trying to get all correspond-
ence, etc., complete to date so that | may use every
spare moment to rest my ‘nerves’ for naturally this
is a very exciting time for me and I want to give my
best.”

As an added attraction during Commencement
Mr. Nichols rendered several selections following
the Baccalaureate sermon, Sunday, June 2nd, and
during the Alumni Luncheon, Monday, June 3rd.

EXAMINATIONS FOR MERCHANTS:

Lawyers, physicians and other professional men
must pass rigid examinations before being allowed to
practice their professions in any state. Retail and
wholesale merchants and other small business men
may set up in business at will, may succeed or fail.

Paul D. Converse, ’16, professor of Marketing at
the University of Illinois, speaking before a promi-
nent Trade Association suggested that regulations be
legislated for entry into business similar to those for
the professions, that merchants be licensed by the
states on the basis of demonstrated ability, that such
a course would mean less business failures, would
bring about higher business standards.

FANFARE:

Richard Halliday, ’24, of New York City, a for-
mer student at Washington and Lee and member of

 

 

 

 

Paut D. Converss, '16
Would Examine Merchants

38 THE ALUMNI

the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity, has written his first
book, a novel, Fanfare, which G. P. Putnam’s Sons
will publish in the early fall. In his dedication, Mr.
Halliday mentions John A. Graham, Professor of
Foreign Languages at the University.

Mr. Halliday is a former resident of Huntington,
West Va., and closely related to the Harvey family of
that city. The late Judge Thomas H. Harvey, ’68,
was a grand-uncle.

While at college Mr. Halliday took a prominent
part in the theatrical activities, and he, together with
John T. Martin, ’26, of Charleston, West Va., wrote
and produced a musical comedy, “Eyes Up”, which
had huge success.

SOME MEMORIES OF MY COL-
LEGE DAYS

(BisHop JAMES R. WINCHESTER, ’74)

The ALUMNI MacazineE of W. & L. University stirs
up memories of happy days. The dark background
with notices of so many deaths of beloved friends
brings tears that blur my vision; but each name has
a radiance of immortality which assures me of a
meeting again beyond “the vale of tears.” Professor
Humphreys taught me Latin in my Junior year and
saw fit to give me “a distinction.” He was a wonder-

 

BisHop Jas. R. WincHEs’eErR, ’74

Turns Memory’s Pages

MAGAZINE

ful scholar and modest Christian gentleman—] loved
him and got inspiration from his life and example.

Professor Charles Graves, Sub-Professor in the
School of Modern Languages, taught me French.
He advanced me from the Junior class, after a few
months, into the Senior, under Professor Joynes. At
the end of the session I received my Graduation Cer-
tificate. He took a pride in my work. He married
Miss Lizzie Kirkpatrick, who was to my mind one of
the ideal women of those days. Professor Humphreys
married the daughter of Chancellor Garland of Van-
derbilt, who became one of my warm and helpful
friends. ‘These two names are enshrined in my heart,
along with the other Professors. No student ever
had more devoted teachers than those of W. & Lowe
in my day.

As I read the April number of Tue Macazineg I
stopped with reverence at the death notice of my dear
classmate J. Munroe Banister. We received our B.A.
degree on the same day. Outside of the class room
we had other associations through family and church.
Another beloved classmate and fraternity chum of
those days, who kept me informed of passing events in

our Alma Mater, was Frank T. Glasgow, also in our
A.B. class of 1874.

Last month William F. Green of Little Rock, after
long illness, entered upon his peaceful rest among the
great company of God’s redeemed children. He was
devoted to W. & L. and told me some time before his
death that he had one desire, above all other things, to
visit Lexington before he was called away from earth.
“Dod” Green as we called him, was one of the boys
who loved “Calathumps” and College stories; and he
retained humorous memories of the days in Lexing-
ton, with fondness for his Professors and fellow stu-
dents.

When a boy at the Episcopal High School in Vir-
ginia, General Lee rode by one day in 1868, and seemed
to leave behind him a magnetic influence, for the next
year John Lloyd matriculated at Washington College.
He was followed in 1869 by four of our boys —
Lawrence Rust, Lewis Berkeley, Kennedy Owen and
me, and the next year William Walker, Ned Lee and
Tom Purdie. Since that time many Episcopal High
boys have entered W. & L. and brought honor to
their school and to the University, as the son of my
close and congenial friend, John L. Campbell, can
bear witness. Lawrence Rust reached Lexington a
few days before me, and introduced me to General
Lee, who advised and guided me from that moment
until the day of his death. Rust was an “all round”
student. His home runs in baseball, his debaters
medal in the Washington Literary Society, and his
M.A. in graduation, as well as his distinction in “the
Calico ticket” placed him on the honor roll of student
life. Owen took delight in baseball and declamation

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

and stood as one of the popular fellows. Berkeley
stands out as “the humorist and wag” of college.
His cartoons gave promise of a great future on
those lines. But death cut short his life. He went
to Mississippi for health, and there fell a victim to
Yellow fever. I had a beautiful letter from him,
written at Holly Springs just before his death. Ned
Lee, my room-mate one year, became a noted physi-
cian in Philadelphia, and wrote “The Lees of Vir-
ginia” which is the authority on the Lee genealogy.
It was in his home in Virginia that I met his first
cousin, Miss Eliza Atkinson Lee, who became my
wife. “Ned” and I kept up a most cordial associa-
tion until the day of his death, and that was a sad
day to me. I have had few better friends. William
Walker became my classmate at the Virginia Theo-
logical Seminary, made a brilliant ministry of short
duration. ‘Tom Purdie adorned the Legal profession ;
John Lloyd, after a limited Law career, entered the
ministry and was one of the most popular clergymen
in Virginia. How fondly I dwell upon all of those
dear fellows, who were with me at the Episcopal High
School and in College.

It was in my second year that General Lee died and
the name Washington College was changed to Wash-
ington and Lee University, a name suggestive of honor
and refinement all over the country. General Custis
Lee became a real father to me. As I had presented
a letter of commendation from my Uncle to General
Robert E. Lee, which put me on his catalogue of boys,
I passed into General Custis’ favor. I love to think
of his kind words to me on all occasions. Graduation
from Washington and Lee gave me a pass-port every-
where in the United States as well as in England.
Therefore, I feel a just pride in mentioning my Alma
Mater and getting in touch with her sons whenever
possible. |

I read with deepest interest the letter of my com-
rade “Soc” Stephens. It was through him that I was
much helped in English. For I took the Senior
course, which was really too advanced for me, and
when I lost myself in Whately’s Rhetoric, it was
“Old Soc” who unravelled the perplexities and en-
abled me to pass the examination which otherwise |
should have missed. His patience, as we took our
long walks, in explaining “The A Priort and A
Posteriori” discussions of Whately have lived as an
evergreen shrub. We had a delightful day together
in Dallas a few years ago and went over the splendid
times we had in Lexington. I recalled so well his
story of trying to get into the Senior class in Math.
He failed on a catch question of Preparatory Math.
Professor Nelson however realized his ability and
proficiency and placed him in the Intermediate, where
he came through with distinction. The year of his
graduation with B.A. debaters medal not having paid

any attention to “the fair sex” he appeared in his
new dress suit on the fashionable walk, from the Col-
lege campus to the Institute parade grounds. So-
crates of olden days had not under Xanthippe a redder
face than our friend Stephens as he passed the stu-
dents on that promenade. He blushes about it to the
present time.

A year and a half ago, I went to “The Mayo Clinic”
for a most serious operation on my throat. My spe-
cial physician was Dr. P. P. Vinson, whom I found
to be the son of William D. Vinson, one of the most
distinguished students of my day at College. He and
I had sat on the campus and talked as chums. When
Dr. Vinson found out this fact, he became more than
physician. His father died when this son was a
small boy. How eagerly he listened to my account
of his father’s scholarship and wonderful career at
W. & L. It was reported in our day that Vinson had
worked a problem in Mathematics, which Professor
Nelson pronounced unsolvable. It was also said that
Vinson had a hundred mark all through his senior
year and on examination. Along with Vinson we
had Talbot I. Bartlett of Louisiana, who got the de-
gree of M.A. in two years. He was the only stu-
dent I have known who could prepare two lessons at
a time. “Dick” Allen, his close friend, told me that
Bartlett could take three studies at one time, having
someone read History while he worked Math and
some other topic. I told Bartlett in New Orleans of
the traditions we had carried down, and he did not
deny the charge. He set a standard that has never
been surpassed by any student at our Alma Mater.
On the day of Commencement, as he tottered to the
platform to receive his degree, amid a tremendous
applause, he seemed a ghost emerging from seclusion.
But he lives now in robust health, ready to give an
old time greeting to his friends. His was the only
M.A. given that year.

Ernest B. Kruttschnitt was another prodigy as a
student. When a distinguished visitor came to Lex-
ington, and was entertained by Dr. Randolph Tucker,
he visited the class-room of Dr. Tucker to see the kind
of instruction the students were receiving for their
Legal calling. ‘The subject was a difficult one and
abstruse. Dr. Tucker had carefully lectured on it the
day before. Wishing to make the best impression, he
called upon Ernest Kruttschnitt to recite. ‘The recita-
tion aroused the attention of the visitor, as most ex-
traordinary. Dr. Tucker then dismissed the class, and
the visitor went away with an impression of the Law
Department of W. & L,. that gratified Dr. ‘Tucker
who recognized the genius of Judah P. Benjamin in
his nephew, with gigantic mind.

Who can ever forget William H. Tayloe of Ala-
bama? He had Astigmatism of the eyes and would
place his forehead on the table when writing, with his

40 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

examination paper immediately under his nose, or
with his book almost against his eyes. But he took
the honor of his classes.

Time would fail me to speak of “Billy” Edmunds,
“Mike” Warren, “Pie-eater’” McPheeters, and “Bones”
Johnson, plotting on the campus some escapade —
the decoration of “The Father of his Country” on
the Main Building, or preparing the story of “The
Burning of the Natural Bridge” for The Southern
Collegian, or else planning an unprecedented mid-
night surprise in the quiet town of Lexington. These
men were the embodiment of fun and yet had high
standing with professors and students. Edmunds
and Johnson, graduating with degree of M.A.; War-
ren with Bachelor of Philosophy, and McPheeters,
looked up to as one of the finest men in college. Few
alumni have left behind a more beautiful record than
Tom McPheeters. Through his efforts the Y. M. C. A.
of St. Louis was built, and his Bible Class was a won-
der to all the city.

What shall I say about “Tom” (Nelson) Page? I
was the first student he met when on his way to Lex-
ington. It was our first year at Washington College.
We spent three years in Greek, preparing for our
final in the Senior class. He wrote for The Southern
Collegian and his composition attracted admiration in
those days. He also took an active part in the Wash-
ington Literary Society. Until the day of his death
he was my warm friend, never missing an oppor-
tunity to say a word to help me. I once told him I
had read everything he had published. He replied,
“It is more than I have done.” I was with him when
he was writing The Life of General Robert E. Lee.
Little did we think, however, that Nelson Page would
have national reputation as a writer, and those dis-
tinguished scholars with us would be unknown. ‘The
students one night had a “calathump.”” My room-mate,
Harry Bedinger Lee, and I heard that our room was
to be a mark of their fun. We went to Tom Page’s
room, at General Pendleton’s, and studied; then got
in his bed: About one o’clock Tom came back, tired
and sleepy, with his friend Tom McFadden for his
needed rest. He found his door locked. In due time
we let him in, and gave him the key to our room at
the Blue Hotel, a mile from Gen. Pendleton’s. For
three years I saw much of Tom Page at York Harbor,
where I held special services. At a literary enter-
tainment, where Tom read several of his Dialect
stories, the Governor of Maine introduced him as
the most popular man on the New England coast.
His beautiful residence at York Harbor stood for
Virginia hospitality. In it one breathed the air of
Washington and Lee.

Among my very happiest days were those with
“The Dekes.” It was a matter of deep sorrow to
me that the year after my college course ended the

D. K. E. charter had to be returned because the few
members could not keep it going. We left only
three members behind, and the diminished ranks in
college gave a poor outlook for recruits in 1875.
Rev. William McPheeters, Irby Boyd, Rev. R, F.
Campbell and James Hay are the survivors of
day in Eta Alpha. The splendid rivalry of the fra-
ternities made better students of many boys. I re
call how John C. Calhoun would urge us to keep u
with the other fellows, and would point to Col. Wil-
liam Preston Johnston as a model Deke for us to
follow.

I wish some one could write fully a sketch of the
baseball team of my days at W. & L. Ed Kirtland
was the wizard of the nine. As captain, his equal is
rarely seen on professional grounds.

Perhaps the most profitable Christmas I had at
college was in 1873 when it fell to my lot to keep
watch at General Lee’s tomb. The ground was coy-
ered with snow, and the small grate in the room
next to the office, where I had first met the General
for my matriculation, was bleak beyond words to
describe. What sacred memories filled my mind;
and how deeply I dwelt upon his beautiful life and

influence upon my course of preparation for the ©

Ministry. Several of my chums called to cheer the

loneliness; but no student dared to shirk his duty at ~

that post of honor. And so I stayed to the setting
of the sun. At the funeral of the great President,
a father to us, I had the honor of being appointed a
marshall. How vividly I recall the scene. The
hearse, the casket rested on the spot where I had at
the end of my first session stood with my hat off,
receiving the benediction of General Lee, who knew
of my work and gave me his congratulations, with
the hope of “finding my mother well.” The senti-
ment of that talk with me, he wrote in a letter to
my mother, a letter I treasure most highly.

I can wish for the undergraduates of my Alma
Mater nothing better than the blessings which came
to me in the friendships of my fellow students and
classmates, the sympathetic help of my professors,
the cordial associations with the Christian people of
Lexington, and then, above all else, the preparation
the University gave me for the duties of life. The
Gospel message of the Ministers of the different
churches seems to ring in my ear. The Rev. Wil-
liam N. Pendleton, D.D., whom we called “General”
rather than Doctor, for he had been Brigadier Gen-
eral and on General Lee’s staff. Then came Dr. J.
William Jones, the Baptist Minister, a special pas-
tor to all the boys and a devoted friend also of Gen-
eral Lee, whose life of Lee is a valued book in my
library. Then the Rev. “Jack” Pratt, D.D., one of
the most eloquent preachers of his day. Those men
delivered a wonderful message week after week,

 

¥
ve a
be a

2
rig

a
4
5
=
4
¥
‘

   

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

and joined us in Chapel services leaving an influence
upon every boy. It is no wonder that the funeral
hymn of General Lee was a fitting memory of the
religious atmosphere of Lexington,

“How firm a foundation ye saints of the Lord

Is laid for your faith in His excellent word’—!

THEY WANTED A HOLIDAY

In 1866 holidays were few and far between. Stu-
dents at Washington College desired a week’s holiday,
passed resolutions to that effect, posted them for sig-
nature under date of Oct. 15, 1866. The holiday was
not granted, the petition became the property of Jo
Lane Stern, 67, of Richmond, Va. General Stern
has generously donated the signed copy to the Lee
Museum. It read as fallows:

WHEREAS, during the present session the regu-
lar exercises of the College are carried on every Sat-
urday and thereby we are deprived of the weekly
leisure usually granted students, and

WHEREAS, we believe that a week of recreation
will have a beneficial effect upon us, and that nothing
will be lost by omitting the recitations for one week,
and whereas it is customary for institutions to sus-
pend regular exercises during the Christmas Holidays,
therefore

RESOLVED, ist, That we the undersigned, stu-
dents of Washington College, do most respectfully
request the President and Faculty to suspend the reg-
ular exercises of the College during the ensuing Holi-
days, and

RESOLVED, 2nd, That, should the President and
Faculty see fit to grant this our request, we will be
guilty of no impropriety during said Holidays, and at
their expiration, we will return with alacrity and re-
newed diligence to our accustomed duties.

 

We would put in the plea that the speakers of the
Societies chosen to appear at the anniversaries need
the week for the preparation of their speeches.

Jno. M. Graham, W. W. Traylor, J. L. Barrow,
Wm. H. Washington, E. H. Wyville, Joe White, B.
V. Mullikin, Chas. E. Mayer, John W. Baugh, Thos.
H. Bevan, Thos. C. Hanna, R. W. McCreery, T. L.
Walpol, G. D. Wright, E. P. Dold, John Bowyer, E.
P. McAdams, W. E. Smith, Wm. McD. Bowyer, J.
V. Johnston, S. B. Lashbrooke, I. S. Thomas, W. M.
Burns, R. Stanard, E. L. Carson, I. P. Rhodes, F. T.
Anderson, Jr., J. B. Kent, J. D. Lacy, M. D. Haw-
kins, E. A. Cheek, Willie Viley, J. S. Clark, G. H.
Glendye, Harry P. McDonald, William McCue, S. D.
Tonge, Jr., Alex. White, H. H. Whitmore, E. L.
Dancy, Geo. T. Lee, E. G. Dumble, R. C. Spitler,

James T. Harrison, Jr., Samuel G. Gilliam, C. M.
Hawkins, I. F. Powder, I. P. Billups, Jr., W. B. Mc-
Chesney, J. A. Kirkpatrick, J. A. Fishburne, J. M.

. Ambler, F. S. Wallace, J. M. Love, J. A. McNutt,

E. Echols, John M. Tutwiler, A. H. Pierson, Jr., H.
P. Webster, Jno. J. Carter, Geo. Starkey, W. H.
Spiller, T. T. Eaton, Geo. B. Baker, T. T. Moss,
Andrew J. Owen, William W. Collins, James T.
Caldwell, Frank Coleman, A. H. Boyd, D. L. Ander-
son, S. S. Waters, S. W. Divine, B. F. Terry, G.
Withered, C. K. Hall, H. L. Palmer, J. K. Jones,
Will M. Johnston, W. G. Cochrane, Charlie M. Bell,
S. O. Young, Jno. D. Young, T. L. Kirkpatrick, A.
A. Chapman, F. C. Welch, F. E. Conrad, G. McDon-
ald, W. B. Millner, Jr.. W. W. Kern, Jr., Henry
Wilson, W. I. Maddox, Jack Rodman, Sam Gold,
Philip Anderson, Chas. Davis, I. R. Guy, J. D. Pin-
kerton, J. A. Logan, M. B. Hurt, E. C. Mosby, J. D.
Bashaw, James P. Nelson, Frank Roane, James F.
Payne, Wm. N. Ashmore, I. A. Wilkinson, N. B.
Feagin, A. Strashun Jones, A. C. Reup, Silas B. Ma-
son, R. B. Fishburne, G. B. Kennedy, G. F. Swann,
I. P. Corbin, Jr., Hugh Thos. Nelson, H. T. Wick-
ham, A. C. Cazenove, W. N. Taliaferro, W. J. Songe,
James Jett Green, Jos. H. Hunt, H. McLeary, W. E.
Colyar, L. W. Barringer, C. B. Kern, Saml. Z. Har-
man, Augustus F. Berlin, Harry Clay, Edmund Ber-
keley, Jr., Frank V. Gray, E. L. Taylor, John P.
Strider, G. B. Strickler, R. L. Mercer, G. B. Gibson,
F. Page, H. M. Nelson, A. F. Young, Jo. Lane Stern,
F. Taliaferro, Edw. Valentine Jones, S. McC. Scott,
W. Bell, J. P. Barclay, O. P. Hebert, G. B. Peters,
L. S. Frierson, F. Brokenbrough, Wm. C. McAdoo,
J. S. Crockett, James A. Turk, C. A. Garnett, John
C. Dabney, Frank Waddill, C. A. Graves, W. W. Da-
vis, W. F. Dancy, Thomas H. Barton, T. H. Dennis,
J. Jett, J. M. Kennedy, W. F. Poring, Jno. B. George,
R. F. Shields, D. F. Griffin, C. H. Newman, J. B.
Beli, I. Ward Wood, John M. Bullock, Edw. D.
Pitts, L. T. Davis, J. L. Vanmeter, A. F. Laird, John
C. J. Clay, L. Donald Allen, M. Wheeler, J. M. Har-
ris, D. C. Cockrell, W. J. Harrell, Robt. J. Poulson,
I. B. Jones, I. S. Moore, Duncan .C. Lyle, Alston
Boyd, A. B. Chandler, Evan Pillow, Joe W. Gordon.

an enema

LETTERS

April 8, 1929.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

One of the most essential items on the agenda of
my last day in Washington (March 23) was to call
round to the Hamilton Hotel to shake hands with
Eddie Parks Davis; and this letter—to enclose my
check for the ALtumNnr MacazinE—is one of the

 

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

JAMES SOMERVILLE

Back to London Town

first | am writing on my return to London. So you
can see that I am not quite as much of a backslider
as you may have thought from my delay in return-
ing the renewal blank.

I am back in London for two or three years, as
Trade Commissioner with special responsibility for
promoting trade in American agricultural products.
I will devote some time also to gathering informa-
tion on Russian trade developments, London being
one of the best places outside of Russia itself for
this purpose.

With kindest regards and wishing you continued
success in your work, I am

Faithfully yours,
JAMES SOMERVILLE, JR., 714.

April 6, 1929.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

Have just received your letter in which you call
my attention to the fact that I have not renewed
my subscription to the AjumMNri Macazine. I en-
close herewith my check payable to you for $2.50
for one year’s subscription.

I think the ALuMNr MaGazine is one of the fin-
est things that the Alumni Association has ever ac-
complished and I look forward each month to re-
ceiving my copy of it, as it is always sure to con-
tain some information about someone I was in school
with, and therefore I enjoy reading it. I am sorry
I haven’t any information to give you to put in the
MAGAZINE. Give my regards to Forest Fletcher
and take good care of yourself.

With kindest regards, I am

Yours very truly,
Henry K. Hit, Jr., ’25.

April 20, 1929,

Dear Mr. Kemp:

Your letter of April 13th is another remi
a matter that I’ve neglected for all too long a time.
I feel that I must owe one year’s subscription for a
number of ALUMNI MaGagiINnE copies occasionally
sent me. Considering my enjoyment derived from
them, I know of no valid reason why I should ac-
cept these copies as a gratuity. For that matter,
my remissness in this regard has been so inexcus-
able that [ must tender apologies instead of asking
pardon. I enclose check in sum of $6.50. Will you
please apply $2.50 of this as a year’s past due pay-
ment and for the remaining $4.00 enter my sub-
scription for the next two years?

You request an accounting of activities on my part
since leaving college in 1916. Unfortunately, I fear
there is no tale of high, distinctive achievement to un-
fold in this connection. In brief, I have served as in-
structor at Shattuck School, Faribault, Minnesota,
Hill School, Pottstown, Penna., Boys Latin (Dun-
hams) in Baltimore, and at Millersburg (Ky.) Mili-
tary Institute. For an interval of several years, I
conducted as manager my father’s general insurance
agency, at the same time serving as ‘Town ‘Treasurer
and Recorder in Woodstock, Va., my home address.

While in Baltimore I studied pipe orgap at Peabody
Institute and in addition to class room duties here I
am acting as school organist, accompanying the chapel
services. I am continuing organ study with the or-
ganist of Washington Cathedral which is on the school
premises. Berkeley Cox, by the way, taught here at
St. Albans some years ago as dil also Wiley For-
bus. Since leaving W. & L. I have done some grad-
uate work at Johns Hopkins. And in sketching my
“career” perhaps I should include mention of a
year in army service in Machine Gun Company,
54th Infantry. Several months I spent in hospitals
following an attack of pneumonia contracted at
Camp Beauregard, (La.), in 1918.

With apologies again for my failure both to sub-
scribe before and to congratulate you on the news
interest of the Macazinr, believe me with best
wishes for your continued success,

nder of

Sincerely yours,
Harrison P. Macruper, 16.

April 30, 1929.
My dear Mr. Kemp:

Your letter of the 24th instant has been received.
[ regret very much that I was unable to see you
when I was in Lexington last Friday and hope to
have better luck the next time I come. The Wash-
ington and Lee Club of the City of Richmond
greatly appreciates the publicity which you have

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 43

given it in the ALUMNI Macaztng. We are now
engaged in a campaign for new members.
Wishing you continued success, I am
Sincerely yours,
C. H. Morrisserr, 714.

April 22, 1929.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I have your letter of the 20th instant enclosing
subscription blank for the Anumni MAGAZINE,
which I have signed and return with my check for
$2.50.

I am pleased to tell you that we have many alumni
in Charleston and an enthusiastic Alumni Associa-
tion here. Most of our activities are in the fall, about
the time of the W. & L.-West Va. football game
here. About once a year the Association entertains
its members with a banquet, and these are most en-
joyable occasions. Last year we were privileged to
have with us Dean Moreland, who made a most in-
teresting talk. I am told that the percentage of
lawyers in Charleston who attended W. & L. Uni-
versity is greater than the percentage of W. & L.
men at any other bar in the country.

Yours very truly,

Harry V. CAMPBELL, 717.

May 8, 1929.
Dr. Henry Louis Smith, Pres.,
Washington & Lee University,
Lexington, Va.

Dear Sir:

As your delegate I paraded in cap and gown with
other delegates and attended the ceremonies at the
inauguration of President Day of Union College.

Under separate cover is a program of exercises
together with newspaper clipping giving the ad-
dresses made. Dr. Angell of Yale put his audience
in good humor at the Phi Beta Kappa and Sigma
Chi dinner before reading his address by jokes
such as:

“Martin Luther did not die a natural death. He
was excommunicated by a Bull.”

Hoping you will enjoy your well earned retire-
ment, I am

Cordially yours,
EK. R. Caricuorr, ’85.

IMPRESSIVE INCIDENT:

Notice of the death of Henry H. McCorkle, ’96,
ef New York City, brought the ' following letter,
reminiscent of the charm and courtesy of another

day, slight but poignant pointer of the heritage
that is Washington and Lee’s, from Mrs. Mary
Quarles Turpin, wife of Rees Turpin, 92, and
daughter of the late great Dr. James H. Quarles,
long professor of Philosophy, sister of E. A.
Quarles, "97, and of James H. Quarles, ’89, to a
member of the McCorkle family.

April 8, 1929.
My dear Dr. McCorkle:

It will be somewhat of a surprise to you when you
look at the signature of this letter. Of course, I
am presuming that you still bear my identity in
mind; and you will no doubt wonder what the oc-
casion for a letter can be.

The occasion, I am grieved to say, is the news
that reached me through the Rockbridge County
News of the death of your brother, Henry.

As I read of his successful life so early brought
to a close, I recalled such a pleasant little incident
that has come to mind more than once since its hap-
pening—now many, many years ago.

One fall afternoon Miss Mildred Lee and I were
out for a ride in my two-wheeled cart. We often
rode together, but usually we would drive out Main
Street, or go up into the Brushy Hills, by Col. Alto,
and then evidently took the road leading to your
old home. Just as we made a turn in the road there
appeared before us such a fine looking young man
on horse-back, to this day I remember vividly the
handsome picture he made as he sat erect but easy
in his saddle. As he came near I recognized who he ~
was, though I had never met Henry, at the same
time he recognized my distinguished companion and
no cavalier of ante-bellum days could have given a
more courteous and appreciative salute than he as he
doffed his hat and held it against his heart. It all
came so naturally and unmistakably from the heart
that Miss Mildred was visibly impressed and said to
me, “Why, Mary, who is your handsome beau?” I
told her who Henry was, then added the wholly un-
necessary information that she was the inspiration
of his gallantry.

This was the one time so far as I know that our
paths ever crossed, but a light flashed from his soul
into mine at that crossing that has never dimmed.
I thought you might be interested to have me tell
you of this little incident of his early years that
showed the manhood within him.

Ever keeping in mind the friendship that has
existed between our families for so many years and
with kindest regards to Mrs. McCorkle and yourself,
T am

| Most sincerely,

Mary Quares TURPIN.

AMERICA’S CALL FOR
LEADERSHIP

Commencement Address by President Henry
Louis Smith.

From yonder cupola on the Washington building
the benignant figure of the glorious Rebel of ’76
looks down upon the sacred tomb of his adored kins-
man, the later Rebel of ’61, and guarding the entrance
to this most hallowed shrine are bronze figures of
these immortal founders of Washington and Lee.

In the normal development of a virile nation’s life
every student of history notes long periods of stabil-
ity, of crystallized traditions, of dominant conserva-
tism. Then usually following the heat and strain of
warfare, the solid crust is rent as by a volcanic out-
burst. The ancient landmarks disappear. Long-es-
tablished creeds, customs, social usages, moral stan-
dards are swiftly fused into a fluid magma to re-
crystallize into the changed forms and new standards
of a new era.

Such periods of swift transition, my fellow-Amer-
icans, are the turning points in a nation’s history,
when every passing hour is big with fate, and the
eternal future is moulded on the clanging anvil of the
passing present.

Such a momentous period of post war reconstruc-
tion faced the re-builders of the desolated South when
General Lee began his immortal work at Lexington.

Since that tragic era of man-made destruction and
heaven-sent heroism two generations were laid to rest
from their labors when once more in our own day
another hellish outburst of war hatreds and organ-
ized murder has wrecked the peace and unity and
moral sanity of modern Christiandom. And now to-
day our whole nation, North, South, East and West,
is passing through another fateful period of post-war
disintegration and possible reconstruction. ‘Twentieth
century science is destroying many of our treasured
old-time beliefs, post-war vices are undermining our
hallowed moral standards, hysteric crime-waves are
overwhelming our ancient legal barriers, intoxicating
liberty is dissolving our former self-restraint, and an
epidemic of revolt is assailing every bulwark of or-
ganized authority in every state of the union.

What then is your life-long task, your imperative
duty, as the educated leaders of American life and
thought? It is to saturate and control our modern
science and modern industry with Lee idealism. My
final message to the sons of Washington and Lee is
to make this your life-work, your supreme effort,
your steadfast purpose.

Let me, therefore, as we meet for the last time in
this sacred shrine, imprint on your mind and heart
vivid reminders of Robert E. Lee as the practical re-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

¥
“a

-

post-war perplexity like ours of today, as the onal
American leader who planned an industria] South of
the future based on the moral standards of the past. i.

1. Our first flashlight picture is of his non-sectional ,
character, an amazing all-American combination of a
the rigid morals of the Northern Puritan with aa a

chivalric courtesy of the Southern Cavalier. In him
were distilled and concentrated all the ideal virtues
of the Old South without its weaknesses.
combination of manly courage and womanly tender-
ness.
helpless, its passionate love of home and children, its
chivalrous exaltation of womanhood, its lofty sense

of personal honor and personal integrity, its deep and i

fervid religious piety—all these seemed to burst into
full flower and perfect fruitage in the character of
the South’s ideal hero just before the tree of sec-
tional civilization which culminated in such an all-
American character was uprooted and destroyed by
the tempest of fratricidal war. |

Let me urge every member of the class of ’29, and 7 =

every representative of General Lee’s institution, in
this age of prevalent moral disintegration, to follow
the Lee ideal by adding to the graces of Southern
chivalry the sterner and diviner asset of spotless pur-
ity and moral self-control, thus building, each for
himself, an all-American character, for every leader’s
life-work springs from his inner character.

2. My second plea is to follow the marvelous ex-
ample of practical all-American Christian living which
he exhibited during an age of creeds and creedalism
and of universal religious partisanship.

Thrice fortunate is the South and through her the
nation and the world that whenever and wherever in
the long ages of the future she turns her eyes toward
the stately figure of her ideal hero on the pedestal of
his ever-growing fame, she sees floating over his head,
as the one and only flag of his unchanging and eter-
nal loyalty, not the stars and stripes which he so sor-
rowfully furled and laid for a time aside, nor the
stars and bars which disappeared forever amid the
smoke and thunder of the battlefield, but the sacred
banner of the cross that starlit battle flag that knows
no North nor South, no surrender nor defeat, no
Gettysburg or Appomattox, that some day, in God’s
good time, shall float in universal triumph over land
and sea.

My fellow-Americans, in these troubled times of
waning faith and restless uncertainty and perplexed
bewilderment my urgent plea is that from General
Lee’s inspiring example every American leader now
before me may realize this awakening truth; that liv-
ing, loving, personal faith in a living, loving, personal
God is at once the source, the inspiration, aye! and
the most accurate measure of all true human greatness.

ae
ae

builder of a disintegrated civilization in an age of a

  

r
Ar
‘a

ae

Its unusual

Its habitual gentleness toward the weak and — a

 

 

 

 

Uncle Dan’s

Old Virginia Hickory Cured Hams

 

(Trade Mark Registered)

Smoked with Hickory Wood, Brown as a Berry, Sweet as a Nut

SHIPPED ALL OVER THE WORLD

Direct to Consumer from Smokehouse on the Farm

Increased Volume of Sales Make Lower
Prices Possible!

Every Ham Guaranteed Satisfactory
Write for New Price Schedule

OWEN HAM COMPANY

(D. B. Owen, 712)

Box A Doylesville, Va.

 

 

 

 

46 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

3. Our third picture is of Lee the all-American
progressive, the daring independent, a_ half-century
ahead not only of his age but of his family traditions
and of the very South he fought for.

You and I live in an age of American science and
inventive genius and ever-growing business enter-
prise. Yet the hands and hearts of our generation are
still held fast in hampering bondage to empty names
and ancient fetters and outgrown battle-cries. Let
the vision of Lee the Progressive inspire every one of
you to break every fettering chain whose only war-
rant is the sanctity of age and unbroken usage.

In that far-off time when the solid South almost
deified chattel slavery Lee was an open abolitionist
and freed his personal slaves long before 1861. In
an age of religious sectarianism he was always in
heart and mind and loyalty an inter-church Christian.
In an age of increasing sectionalism and final seces-
sion he was an open and ardent advocate of an un-
divided union. Although a life-long military leader
he openly rejected military discipline in our Amer-
ican colleges and universities. Although he fought
four years amid the devilish horrors and hatreds of
murderous civil war, he never once yielded to war
hatreds or sectional bitterness, but loved the whole
union even amid the tragedies of utter desolation and
defeat. In an age when King Alcohol reigned su-
preme, when legal prohibition was hardly dreamed of,
when soldiers and sailors were regularly dosed with
liquor to increase their battle-ardor—under these cir-
cumstances this regular army officer was always and
everywhere an absolute teetotaler and condemned al-
cohol in every form and degree as the deadliest en-
emy of human welfare.

Surely, of all his marvelous attributes this daring
progressiveness was the most amazing.

4. And this brings me to my final picture of this
forward-looking leader. I urge every one of you to
duplicate, each in his own environment, General Lee’s
ready and far-visioned response to the call of a new
age, a triple combination of keenest insight, prophetic
foresight, and executive ability.

He was a military son of the old South, with its
ancient system of slave-labor, its cultured and mas-
terful oligarchy, its lack of popular education, its ex-
clusive devotion to agriculture, all fatally unfitting it
for modern industry. Yet when his starved and
ragged heroes were disbanded at Appomattox, this
greatest soldier of the old South became not only an
educational statesman, but the creative engineer of a
new industrial era. In five post-bellum years of pov-
erty and wreckage he transformed and developed an
ancient classical college into a center of scientific, vo-
cational, and practical training for a new industrial
South. He spent his time and energy as an educator

  
 
 
  
   

7
not on the ancient abstract classical curriculum of .
day, but in training engineers, legislators, journalists
and business experts for new industries and a re
era never even imagined by his Southern associates
I urge you as twentieth century Americans to a
low his progressive leadership by catching the spiriy
attacking the problems, combating the dangers, and
thrilling to the possibilities of this twentieth cent,
age of transition in whose whirlwind activities, e
whose far-flung battlefields, your life-conflict is to be
won or lost. Recognize with open eyes and ope s
mind and an open heart that this is an age of < me
science and organized industry yoked in irre le
team-work. Scientific research and its applica to
human problems and human activities are transforn n n=
ing our civilization. Let them release your minds
from fettering traditions and outgrown ideals and i :
herited prejudices and hopeless provincialism, aie
is the age of the highly-trained thinker, of the ardent |
specialist, of the clear-visioned warm-hearted e& ert
who can transform pure science and abstract re <a
into human effectiveness and human brotherhood 4 _
human welfare. Bee
You face today a South and a nation sorely in r 7
of active and effective leadership inspired by Lee pro--
gressiveness and consecrated by Lee idealism.
Ours is an age not only of organized cooperatio: 2
and vast business enterprises, but of over-crowé ee
schools and colleges. Never have Americans been so
expensively, so thoroughly, so universally “educated
as they are today. Yet, alas! never has our blessel
land been so filled with highly-trained and ring
criminals as it is today. Our courts and jails are as
overcrowded as our colleges. Our police are defied,
our laws openly scorned, our whole land over-ridden
with murder and highway robbery. A 3
What comforting truth in such an era can we learn BS
from General Lee’s swift transition from utter de=%
feat to the leadership of a new age? Surely this—
the essential and eternal supremacy of the things of |
the spirit over those of time and sense; that real 4
greatness cannot be determined or measured by the
accident of success or failure, but by the indwelling #
purpose and spirit with which they are borne; that — sa
God-like character may rise triumphant over environ-
ment however difficult or adverse; that our houses
and lands, our railways and factories, our visible pos- —
sessions are not the underlying essentials of Amer-
ican civilization but only its tools and trappings al- “4
ready on their way to the scrapheap. ZS a :
In concluding my plea for Lee idealism in mode”
America let me not be misunderstood. I have no - "i
quarrel with national industry or national wealth or =
national prosperity. Far from it. Let the utilization
of our marvelous resources continue and increase.
Let vast industrial enterprises bear witness to the —

    
    
    
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
  
   
 
     
 

va
a
iit
%

ap a

    
    
      
       
   
   

ees

~

"aan
= ea
+7

ea
a
ea
—-_

FP

“os
nes

ee

THE ALUMNI

business ability of our energetic leaders. Let the
land echo with the throb of engines and the busy whir
of machinery. Let the marvels of modern invention
transform our daily living. Let every leaping moun-
tain cataract be yoked to the service of man. Let our
wide fields grow whiter with fleecy cotton, more
golden with ripening grain, more stately with waving
corn, smiling back in still more fruitful beauty to the
sunny skies above us. Let the wealth of the world
continue to flow in ten thousand channels among our
people till ease and culture and leisure and material
comfort have lifted the heavy burden of hopeless toil
from every American heart and every American
home.

But—let the lofty sense of personal honor and per-
sonal dignity and personal integrity that distinguished
the fathers remain the heritage of their busier sons.
Let the old-time courtesy and chivalry and hospital-
ity hold their place in spite of business cares and sor-
did haste to be rich. Let the scorn of the old-time
gentleman of the Lee type for trickery and the dis-
honest dollar protect this younger generation from
the many perils of the modern market place. Let the
moral and ethical standards of the past prove an ef-
fective bulwark against this muddy flood of luxury,
frivolity, and shallow mamon-worship. And above
all, let the deep and fervid piety of Lee and his as-
sociates consecrate our growing wealth and_ national
power to the service of God and man, purify our
business, our politics, our homes, and our ideals,
sweeten into loving fraternity the relationship of
American rich and poor, and make our growing
wealth and national power not the admiration only
but the blessing of the whole world.

Thus and thus only shall we be enabled to yoke the
car of our material prosperity to the onrushing char-
iot wheels of the divine and invisible purpose, and win
for ourselves active partnership with the divine.

“Build thee more stately mansions, oh, my soul,

As the swift seasons roll;

Leave thy low-vaulted past.

Let each new temple, nobler than the last,

Shut thee from heaven with a dome more vast,
Till thou at length art free,

Leaving thine outgrown shell by life’s unresting sea!”’

 

*

PERSONALS

At the fifty-sixth annual Commencement of Mc-
Donogh School near Baltimore, DR. DUNCAN C.
LYLE, ’69, was honored by having the cornerstone of a
new building named after him. Dr. Lyle received his
M.A. diploma from Washington College and the hands
of General Robert EF. Lee in 1869, having been assistant
professor of mathematics during his college course.

MAGAZINE 47

He has devoted his life to teaching, becoming a mem-
ber of the McDonogh School Faculty when it was
opened in 1873 and continuing in that capacity and
as principal until his retirement in 1919. His Alma
Mater Washington and Lee, conferred upon him the
degree of Litt.D. in 1913. Dr. Lyle is now living
quietly in Baltimore.

JOSEPH JOHN ALLEN, ’70, is recuperating
after nine weeks’ illness at the Park View Hospital,
Rocky Mount, N. C. He writes: “I am up again
and eating three square meals per day. I am _ the
only Confederate Veteran in North Carolina who
was a student under General Lee. Regards to the
boys who study Latin and Greek. I can still knock
‘em cold.”

DR. J. H. DILLARD, °77, of Charlottesville, a for-
mer dean of Tulane University and now president of the
Slater fund and the Jeanes fund, and one of the di-
rectors of the General Education Board of the Rocke-
feller foundation, is to be honored by having a new
educational institution named in his honor.

The merger of Streight College, New Orleans Uni-
versity, and the Flint-Goodrich Hospital and Training
School into a huge educational and training institution
for Negroes has been practically completed and a
charter for the new institution, to be known as Dillard
University, has been drawn up. There is a probability
that Leland College, a Baptist school near Baton Rouge,
will also be included in the merger.

CONSTITUTIONAL LAWYER: Congressman
Harry St. George Tucker, ’77, spoke with authority
in the House of Representatives on the National
Origins feature of the reapportionment bill, made a
profound impression with his interpretation of the
language of the Constitution on the subject; was
freely quoted in the Senate, was referred to by Sen-
ator Tyson as the most outstanding constitutional
lawyer in the House, was consulted by Senator Moses.

DR. WILLIAM SPENCER CURRELL, ’78, dean
of the graduate school of the University of South
Carolina, completed fifty years of distinguished serv-
ice in the field of education in June. And after this
half century of teaching and administering, during
which he has come into contact with thousands of
young lives at their most impressionable age period,
Dr. Currell today, at seventy-two, is alert, active and
in step with the times, his faculties unimpaired but
rather quickened, his scholarship ripened and mellowed
with the experiences that the years have brought.

JUDGE W. H. TAYLOE, ’78, of Uniontown,
Ala., says his most recent activities include “nothing
but flu and loafing.”

REV. ROBERT F. CAMPBELL, D. D., ’79,

48 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

has been pastor of the First Presbyterian Church of
Asheville, N. C., for thirty-seven years. He was ap-
pointed to the James Sprunt Lectureship, Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond, Va., for 1930.
His lecture on “Christian Liberty” will be published
in book form, according to conditions of the
T,ectureship.

MR. HUNTER McDONALD, ’79, chief engi-
neer of the N., C. & St. L. Railroad Co., ac-
companied by his wife and other members of his
family, spent April 22 and 23 in Lexington. Mr.
McDonald spent his boyhood in Lexington and_ this
visit was the first he had made in many years.

J. W. ANDERSON, ’85, is engineer for the Rail-
way and Highway Construction in Latin America.
In 1900 he was assistant engineer for the Nicau-
ragan Canal Survey, the Mexican Central Railroad ;
General Roadmaster for the Pacific Division of the In-
ternational Railway. Mr. Anderson spent several
days in Lexington during W. & L. Commencement.

E. R. CARICHOFF, ’85, was selected as delegate
to represent Washington and Lee University at the
inauguration of Frank Parker Day as President of
Union College, Schenectady, N. Y., on May 4th.

HON. MILES POINDEXTER, 791, of Wash-
ington, D. C., visited his old home near Natural
Bridge in April. While in the county he came to
Lexington and was greeted by a number of his
friends.

REV. ASHBY JONES, ’91, prominent Baptist
minister of St. Louis, Mo., delivered the bac-
calaureate sermon to the V. M. I graduates this
Commencement.

At its meeting on February 20th, the board of
directors of the American Telephone and Telegraph
Company elected JOHN W. DAVIS, 792, a director
to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Charles E.
Hubbard. Mr. Davis, who was Democratic nominee
for President in 1924, is a member of the law firm
of Davis, Polk, Wardwell, Gardiner and Reed, of
New York City. He is also a director of the Na-
tional Bank of Commerce and a trustee of the
Mutual Life Insurance Company.

DON P. HALSEY, ’93, practising law in Lynch-
burg, Va., is Judge of the Sixth Judicial Circuit of
Virginia.

HERBERT FITZPATRICK, B.L., 94, LL.D., ’28,
vice-President and General Counsel of the C. & O.
Rwy., a Director of the Burks Memorial Fund, was
elected to the Board of Directors of the Pere Mar-
quitte Railroad at the annual stockholders meeting,
May 21st.

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
   
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

W. D. McSWEEN, ’95, is practicing law at
port, Tenn. «ig

COL. THOMAS W. SHELTON, B.L., 96,
Norfolk, Va., appeared before President Hoon ve
Enter-departinentel Airways Commission, May 2;
in the interest of the establishment of a mail and
mercial air route from Norfolk to Pittsburgh anal
extension of the proposed route through the Sout
eastern seaports to Jacksonville, Fla. 2

DR. THOMAS J. FARRAR, ’96, head of
department of German at W. & L., was a leleg
to the convention of Virginia Rotarians meeting
Lynchburg, Va., on May 2nd. a

EK. H. SMITH, °96, grain and fruit broker
Colusa, Calif., writes us: “Please remember ne
Capt. Ben Harlow and Col. Claude Feamster, ‘b
of whom I understand now reside in Lexington; als
Dr. Livingston W. Smith and Dr. Howe. Al if
it has been more than thirty years since I left Le
ington, many of my friends and classmates are
there, and I hope to have the pleasure of ay
them a visit some day. I have gotten a great dez al ¢ |
pleasure out of your MacGazIne, and I a
alumant will continue to give it the support it |
serves.’ a

BRADEN VANDEVENTER, 797; of No orfolk
Va., is special counsel for the State in the ma er c
Fire Insurance investigation as to reasonableness 0:
fire insurance rates in the state, pending before Sta
Corporation Commission, involving a difference —
$1,500,000 per year. BY

H. St. G. T. CARMICHAEL, 799, vice-preside
of the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co., of Kyrock, K
writes us that he just moved into his new home i
April, his former home having been comp stely
destroyed by fire last December. Mr. Carmichael
was recently put on the Board of Managers, Ky. Sa
A. R., also Board of Directors of the Ky.

for Crippled Children.

J. W. GARROW, ’00, president of Garrow, —
MacClain & Garrow, cotton factors, was last month —
elected president of the Houston Cotton Exchan a ‘
and Board of Trade. Mr. Garrow is well known 5
cotton circles throughout Texas. Following ni 7
graduation from W. & L. he became a member 0
his father’s firm, H. W. Garrow & Co., cotton xs
porters, continuing as such until 1924. In 1918 he-
helped to organize the firm of Garrow, MacClain &
Garrow, becoming in the meantime active in the — at-
fairs of the Texas Cotton Association. He ae
elected vice president of the Houston Cotton Ex-—
change in 1928, and was advanced from that office —
to the presidency. i

re
——

dCi ty
a

~~"
a
a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 49

DR. JOSEPH DORSEY COLLINS, ’02, of Ports-
mouth, Va., is surgeon-in-chief of the Seaboard Air
Line Railway System, succeeding the late Dr. Joseph
M. Burke. Dr. Collins graduated from the Univer-
sity College of Medicine, Richmond, Virginia, in the
class of 1905.

REV. THOMAS F. OPIE, D.D., ’04, of Burl-
ington, N. C., was recently granted a six months’
leave by Holy Comforter Episcopal Church, of
Burlington, N. C., to head up an endowment cam-
paign for $500,000 for The Churchman, the oldest
religious journal in the English language. The
Churchman was born in January; 1804, and is this
year celebrating its 125th anniversary. Dr. Opie is
temporarily stationed in New York and is now
directing the endowment campaign.

MR. LENOX B. TURNBULL, ’04, of Hazard,
Ky., was a visitor at the home of his sister, Mrs.
Harvey C. Wise in Lexington, the second week in
May.

RICHARD W. HYNSON, ’06, is District Sales
Manager for The National City Company, Washing-
ton, D. C. His recent activities include the partici-
pation as a vice chairman of Special Gifts Unit,
Washington Community Chest (lst) which was very
successfully put over, ably assisted by his associate
in The National City Company, Mr. Charles Porter-
field Light, Sr., father of W. & L. Law Professor,
CC; sLagah. jr.

W. K. RAMSEY, ’08, realtor in El Paso, Texas,
writes us: “The ALUMNI MAGAZINE suits me _ fine.
i consider it rather unique in its class and very in-
teresting. Best wishes for its continued growth and
prosperity.”

E. CLYDE HOGE, ’08, writes: “Have arranged
to place both my sons in Old Dominion Camp near
Lexington this summer, thus getting them ac-
climatized for the future. Expect to visit Lexing-
ton twice while they are there. Visited Melvin
Kurth and his charming family in their Houston
home recently. Also saw ‘Dutch’ Alderson there.
Spent a pleasant evening with Dr. Deeny at Tusca-
loosa and dined with Walter Hood, °10, in Birming-
ham.”

LOUIS S. EPES, B.L., ’08, Chairman of the Vir-
ginia Corporation Commission, delivered the annual
Commencement address at another alma mater, Hamp-
den-Sydney, June 12th, pled for the development of
character as the fundamental requisite for a success-
ful career.

C. T. DAWKINS, ’09, of Tampa, Fla., writes:
“Plugging along at an even keel and hoping some

day W. & L. will beat Florida at football. I find
ALUMNI MAGAZINE a live, interesting and vital link
between me and the good old days at Lexington. It
is splendidly edited.”

LAURENCE WITTEN, 710, is General Agent
for the Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co. in
Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1918 this agency ranked 39th
among 72 agencies. It is now 8th, although the
company’s annual business is five times what it was
ten years ago. Mr. Witten is also president of the
Cincinnatus Association, which has been a mighty

factor in making Cincinnati the best governed city
in the U. S.

The firm of Alley and Geer (RAYFORD W.
ALLEY, ’10) has been dissolved by mutual consent,
and a new firm has been formed for the general
practice of law under the name of Glenn, Ailey and
Geer, with offices at 111 Broadway, New York City.

W. R. L. TAYLOR, ’11, writes: “About the
only piece of news that I have to offer is that my
former firm of Garrett, Taylor & Edwards was dis-
solved by the retirement of its senior member and
since January Ist Taylor & Edwards have been
wooing the fickle public for its patronage. The
change has necessitated considerable revampment,
and if you have never had the experience of going

 

 

The New A. T. O.
House

GLASGOW ROUGH TEXTURE BRICK
FOR FACING

GLASGOW LOADBEARING HOLLOW
TILE FOR BACK WALLS

Other New and Handsome Residences and
Fraternity Houses Being Built in Lex-

ington Are Faced with GLASGOW
TEXTURED BRICK

LOCHER & COMPANY

Incorporated
Brick and Tile Manufacturers

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

 

 

50 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ‘a

through a dissolution and attempting to eliminate
from your files and records the accumulation of
thirty years or more which you have inherited from
predecessors, my advice to you is do not seek it.”

W. L. FREELAND, ’11, of Miami, Fla., writes
under date of March 20: “We of the Greater Miami
District have been fortunate in having with us this
winter an unprecedented number of celebrities, as
well as celebrations. Al Smith sojourned awhile
with us and President Hoover spent his vacation
here. Lindbergh was here for the inauguration of
the Pan-American Airways Airline to the Canal
Zone, and I had the good fortune to be among those
who went up with him. We also had as our guest
for several days the Executive Committee of the
American Bar Association.

NASH LeGRAND, ’11, practising attorney at
Hamlet, N. C., made a brief visit to Lexington in
August, 1928, for the first time since leaving W. &
L. He writes us that he enjoyed his chats with Dr.
Easter and Dick Smith, lunch at Dutch Inn and
short visit to Gift Shop and his chat with “Miss
Annie” at Herring Hall.

ROSSER J. COKE, ’11, was elected to represent
Washington and Lee at the inauguration of King
Vivion as the President of Southwestern University,
Georgetown, ‘Texas.

WILBUR C. HALL, ’14, was nominated without
opposition for delegate in the General Assembly from
Loudoun County, at a meeting of the Loudoun County
Democratic Committee at Leesburg, Va. Mr. Hall has
served for six consecutive terms in the General As-
sembly and is chairman of the Finance Committee.
He is author of the Virginia Fire Insurance Law un-
der which a reduction in rates is now being asked and
under which hearing is pending before the States Cor-
poration Commission. Mr. Hall has been prominently
mentioned as a candidate for Congress to succeed the
Honorable R. Walton Moore upon his retirement.
Mr. Hall is recognized as an authority on taxation and
has taken active part in the adoption of Virginia’s tax
system under which Virginia is fast becoming a leader
in industry in the South.

ROGER BEAR, ’14, is a ranking engineer with
the Cincinnati Union Terminals.

FRED DAVIS, ’14, is in the insurance business
in Lynchburg, Va., with Davis, Childs and Com-
pany. He is also Secretary-Treasurer of the Lions
Club of Lynchburg; Service Officer of the American
Legion, Lynchburg Post; National Treasurer of
Square and Compass.

MR. and MRS. ARTHUR W. McCAIN, ’14, of

  
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
  
   
 
   
  
  
   
   
  
 
   
  

‘a
=)

Scarsdale, N. Y., were visitors to Lexington dy ie
the week of May 6th. a

DR. EDWARD LYONS, ’15, has been gail
president of the Detroit section of the :
Chemical Society.

CHARLES R. STRIBLING, ’17, is Command
ant of Cadets at the Missouri Military Acade ,
Mexico, Mo. For the past four years he has ¢
and operated Camp Mismilaca, a summer cct
and camp for boys on Lake Taneycomo in the Oz a
Mountains of Missouri. He has a two year old s
Charles R. Stribling, ITI. ae

MR. and MRS. HOMER HOLT, ’18, and ’25. ¢
Fayetteville, West Va., were among the visitors to \
& L. for Finals. Their brother, Mr. Joseph Holt w
a graduate in the Law school.

L. A. McMURRAY, ’18, paid a short vi it
Lexington in the early spring, the first time he |
returned since his graduation. a

DR. ARCHIBALD B. SHEPPERSON, ’18, |
been made assistant professor of English at th

University of Virginia.
‘19, secretary to _

ALEX M. WALKER,
Simmons, has just entered the insurance bk sine: ess
representing ‘The Mutual Life Insurance Co.
New York. Alex has his office in the Sou seh
Building, Washington, D. C. at

MR. and MRS. EDMUND D. CAMPBELL
‘20, of Washington, D. C., were guests of Dr. anc
Mrs. Harry D. Campbell on College Hill during - ne
first week in May. ;

CHESTER S. SHADE, ’20, of Beverly a
Calif., writes us: “My most recent activities incluc
Miss ae Pendleton Shade, born May 21, 1928
but no other event of really cosmic importance. My
belated congratulations on the ALUMNI MAGAZINE, a
truly worth-while publication. Please do not let m
miss any issue. Hope to see Lexington again about
October next and wish you could arrange to es : -
U. Va. game then as a mark of special consideration. —

bd
“a
y

Sa ri
t han
«

is
7 a ites wae

aoe
oe

, : ~ inh’ os :
rae? jee

a,
a9 he 1,
a a

DR. DANIEL BLAIN, ’21, graduating in Medi ie a
cine from Vanderbilt University in June, is serving —
as “camp doctor” at Camp Andrews, Birmingham, Ala, -
which opened on June 5th. “Dan” received the of 3,
of this position while interned at the Peter Brent Bir te
ham Hospital in Boston, Mass. Formerly an le

Scout with experience as scoutmaster, he is particularly —
suited to the role he is now assuming. Dan was born
in Hangchow, China, receiving his education at

Washington and Lee University, where he was an er
standing football player.

 

 

2A Last |

BRONZE STATUETTES

OF

ROBERT E. LEE

Can be bought
at the

Gift and -Art Shop

ROBERT E. LEE HOTEL LEXINGTON, VA.

$3.00 each, plus postage

Mi ee Go ae 7 ae
Interior Decorator
FRANCES HAMILTON
Gift Gonsultant
PNR EL a EE A

 

52 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Wm. J. RUSHTON, JR., ’21, has been elected
president of the Alabama Ice Manufacturers As-
sociation, Birmingham, Ala. His election was
symbolized by a three-column cartoon in the Febru-
ary &th issue of the Birmingham Age-Herald.

WILLIAM F. McCANN, ’21, is a member of
St. Mary’s Church Choir, New Castle, Pa. This
choir broadcast over Station WJAS Pittsburgh, Pa.
on Feb. 28th.

M. I. DUNN, JR., ’23, located for the past four
years at Huntington, West Va., was on April 15th
promoted to Division Engineer, M. of W. Depart-
ment, C. & O. Rwy., in charge of maintenance and
construction work on Huntington and Logan Divi-
sions of the C. & O. Rwy. He was formerly Asst.
Division Engineer for the same territory and com-

pany.
FRANK RUSHTON, ’23, and his wife were
visitors to Lexington for a few days last month.

RICHARD BEARD, ’24, of Albany, Ga., repre-
sents the Cherokee Mills in the Georgia District.
He writes us that he is the proud father of a ten
months old baby boy, Richard ITI.

MARVIN F. HUMMER, ’24, has been admitted
into his father’s firm of W. F. Hummer and Company,
Washington, D.C. The new firm name is W. F. Hum-
mer and Son.

PROF. WALTER A. FLICK, ’24, is teaching in
the Graduate School, Emory University, Georgia, dur-
ing the summer quarter of 1929.

RAYMOND M. FLESHMAN, ’24, has practised
Law for the past four years at Williamson, West
Va. .

J. N. THOMAS, ’24, was elected president of the
student body at Union Theological Seminary, Rich-
mond, Va.

J. C. DUNN, ’25, located at Baltimore, Md., is
in experimental work for the General Electric Com-

pany.
G. D. MAYOR, ’25, is draftsman in the office of

the Division Engineer of the C. & O. Rwy., Hunt-
ington, West Va.

J. R. SEEHORN, JR., 25, | is in the hardware busi-
ness in Newport, Tenn.

A. R. (RED) HAWKINS, ’25, is doing splendid
work with the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Co. of
Kyrock, Ky. He was recently promoted in the Cost
and Accounting Department.

JOHN MINOR WISDOM, ’26, is winner of the

  
 
  
   
   
       
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
 
   
 
 
 
  
  
 
   
    
    
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

Tulane faculty gold medal for having attain od
highest scholastic average over the entire thre a
period of the law course. A graduate of the 192¢ 0]
class, Mr. Wisdom is a member of the Delia
Epsilon fraternity, Phi Alpha Delta, legal fr
the Jambalaya board and other University ou va 2
tions. Mr. Wisdom entered the Tulane Law
in 1926, following his graduation with a B.A. ie
from W. & L. and a post-graduate course at Harvay
ne
FRANK D. CHARLTON, ’27, is ‘oni
second year in the Divinity School of Yale Uni
sity. He receives his Bachelor of Divinity ¢
in June, 1930. On April 20th he joined thee
York East Annual Conference and at the same t
became pastor of the First Methodist Church

Wallingford, Conn. eo

i:
BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Robert M. Curtis
Roanoke, Va. on April 1, 1929, a daugther, Nar

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Wentworth F. Myc er
of New York City, a son, Wentworth F. Myers, J
on March 23rd.

RENOMINATED, CHARLES J. McDERMO er
Trustee of W. & L., as president of the Alumni /
sociation of the Law School of Columbia Unive: sity,
where he graduated in 1889. Judge McDermott is
a member of the Board of Higher Education of the ~
City of New York, and of Adelphi Acta ? =>

NEPHEW: H. G. Jahncke, Sophomore in 16
Commerce School, from New Orleans, has been Pe
good repute as a student, has some distinction on nis
own account. Additional distinction came with ‘the —
appointment of uncle FE. L. Jahncke to the Assistant _
Secretaryship of the Navy, long a Roosevelt pre |
ince, by President Hoover. ah

oe

—istienilill ae

OBITUARY

DIED: Judge Thomas H. Harvey, ’68, of Hants _
ington, West Va., on May 7th at his home. He
attended Washington and Lee during the presidency
of General Robert E. Lee and had in his possession —
his diploma signed by General Lee. a _

DIED: Thomas Chipman McRae, ’72, former gov- ”
ernor of Arkansas, on June 3rd. In a glowing tribuliy
to the memory of Governor McRae, Bishop James R.
Winchester, 74, of the Episcopal Diocese of Ariane “
sas, said: “In my judgment Thomas Chipman McRae
was one of the finest characters in our public life, an
outstanding figure as Congressman, Governor ana
chairman of the Democratic party in Arkansas. Tt
was my privilege to know him as a law student in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 53

Washington and Lee University, where he won the
esteem of students and professors.”

DIED: Walter C. Guthrie, ’73, of Port Gibson,
Miss., on March 4th. Receiving his B.A. in 1873
from W. & L., he embarked upon his chosen career
of teaching in which profession he was employed for
35 years. During this period many hundreds of
young men were helped and guided by him, and he
is affectionately remembered by them not only as an
inspiring teacher, but also as a sympathetic friend and
counsellor. Gifted with a rare understanding of boys
and their problems, his success as a disciplinarian was
remarkable. After his retirement in 1907, he was
active in various business enterprises, served for
some time as a member of the town council at Port
Gibson, and at the time of his death was vice-presi-
dent of the Port Gibson Bank, a position he had held
for many years.

DIED: William C. Hattan, 98, at his home in
Erwin, Tenn., on March 25th. He was a native of
Rockbridge County, Va., and his body was brought
to Lexington for burial.

DIED: Robert Glasgow, Jr., ’00, at his home
in Charlotte, N. C., May 10th, after a lingering ill-
ness. He was the only son of the late Dr. Robert Glas-
gow, 775.

DIED: Robert H. Crews, ’07, practicing attorney
of El Paso, Texas, on June 6th. Graduating in
Law from W. & L., he became engaged in this law
practice at Albuquerque, New Mexico, where in 1914
at the age of 27, he also became one of the youngest
assistant attorney generals of New Mexico. He re-
signed that position sometime ago and came to E] Paso
to practice law.

DIED: T. A. Thixton, 08, of Louisville, Ky.,
instantly on May 4th when the speeding motor in
which he drove crashed into the B. & O. passenger
train about two miles west of Jeffersonville, Ky.

DIED: Noble D. Smithson, 11, for eight years
registrar at Washington and Lee, suddenly at
Asheville, N. C., April 26, of heart disease. He was
about 40 years old. Mr. Smithson entered W. & L.
in 1905, graduating in Law in 1911. He served as
registrar from 1912 to 1920. After leaving Lexing-
ton he married Miss Sarah V. Alley, who survives
him with one daughter. Mr. Smithson was assistant
trust officer of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Com-
pany of Asheville, N. C., where he had been since
1923.

DIED: Charles Schloss, ’26, of Bristol, Va.,
April Ist, after an illness of nine weeks with
influenza. Mr. Schloss was in New York City at

the time of his death, where he had accepted a posi-
tion with Sartorius and Smith, brokers.

DIED: William Arnold, ’28, instantly, the latter
part of March, when the car in which he and his
companion, James Henry, were driving, overturned
near Fordyce, Ark.

DIED: Mrs. Helen Cassell Webster, suddenly
of heart disease at Sunnyside, the family home near
Lexington, on Monday, May 27th. She is survived
by a son, Frank P. Webster, an alumnus of W. & L.
who is now living in San Francisco; and three daugh-
ters, Mrs. Isabel D. Anderson, wife of Colonel James
A. Anderson of V. M. I., and Misses Helen E. and
Ella G. Webster, both of whom are employed at
Washington and Lee University.

DIED: Dr. James W. Kern, associate professor
of Latin at Washington and Lee from 1902 to 1924,
when he retired, unexpectedly from a heart at-
tack on Monday, June 3rd, at his home near the Uni-
versity. Dr. Kern was educated at the University
of Virginia and Johns Hopkins University; the lat-
ter in 1899 conferred upon him the degree of Ph.D.
He is survived by Mrs. Kern and a son, James W.
Kern, Jr., of Clinton, Ill. A second son, Dabney
Kern, was among the first young American soldiers
killed in action in France. He also left a sister and
brother. Dr. Robert Kern, of Richmond, and Mrs.
Paul, of Gastonia, N. C.

— ——%e — —_

MARRIAGES

HONORABLE HARRY ST. G. TUCKER MAR-
RIES: Culminating a friendship of over twenty years,
Honorable Harry St. G. Tucker, ’77, and Miss Mary
Williams, of Washington, D. C., were quietly mar-
ried on June 26th, at the “Redwood,” the bride’s old
home in Culpeper, Va. The wedding unites two of
the best known families of the Old Dominion, linked
prominently with its social and civil history since
Colonial days.

MARRIED: Mr. William G. Saville, °18, of
Murat, Va., and Miss Bernadine Hughes, of Frank-
fort, Ky., on April 17th.

MARRIED: Louis McMurray, 719, and Miss
Jean Harlan, of Hedgeville, West Va., on May 15th.
Mr. McMurray’s father performed the ceremony,
S. A. Anderson, ’19, was best man.

MARRIED: John L. Patterson, ’21, of St. Louis,
Mo., and Miss Mildred Meadors, of Memphis,
Tenn., on March 31st.

MARRIED: Joseph Vaughn Penn, ’24, of Dan-

54 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ville, and Miss Virginia Belvin, of Richmond, Vir-
ginia, June 22nd.

MARRIED: Hugh David Ebert, ’27, of Lexing-
ton and Miss Emily Katherine Smith, of Roanoke,
early in June. Mr. Ebert is a part owner and Man-
ager of The Corner, Inc., of Lexington.

MARRIED: Christopher B. Edwards, °28, and
Miss Gertrude Hardesty of Fort Thomas, Ky., on
March 15th.

MARRIED: Hollis R. (“Babe”) Spotts, ’28, of
Brooklyn, N. Y., and Miss Aylwin Houghson of Roa-
noke, Va., in the Lee Chapel, Lexington, Saturday,
June Ist. Mr. and Mrs. Spotts will make their home
at Waynesboro, Va., where Mr. Spotts is employed as
Athletic Coach and Instructor at Fishburn Military
Academy.

MARRIED: E. A. Fitzpatrick, ’29, football cap-
tain last season, and Miss Mary Lynn Petty of Roa-
noke, Va., Tuesday, June 4th, in Roanoke.

MARRIED: Campbell Cummings Hutcheson, ’29,
of Shreveport, La., editor of the 1929 Calyx, and Miss
Mary Frances Marshall, of Marshall, Texas, in the
Beta Theta Pi House, Lexington, June 6th.

MARRIED: Charles L. Abry, Jr., 731, W. & L.
sophomore, and Miss Kress, daughter of Rush H.
Kress, wealthy chain store owner, of Osining, N. Y., on
May 13th.

BARROOM:

(From Ring-tum Phi, May 2nd). “Name your
poison, gents!’ In these days when the old saluta-
tion of a kindly barkeeper has become the death cry
of the modern bootlegger, it seems out of place. But
in Kast Lexington’s one saloon, it seems to echo around
the walls. For East Lexington has a saloon,—that is,
every requisite of a saloon except the staple commod-
ities, beer and whisky, which are lacking. Untouched
for nearly thirty years, the visitor may see, in an old
building on Main Street, the last word in the old-time
saloon. He may go through swinging doors, up to
the oak and walnut bar, put his foot on the brass
rail, and let his eye roam at will over the glasses,
whisky containers, flavor containers, beer kegs and
malloets, cocktail shakers, measuring cups, flasks,
labels and all the accessories of the bigger and better
barroom. Distillers and brewers have their gaudy
advertisements on the wall, one from Staunton, one
from Baltimore and the rest from Northern firms.
Peculiarly shaped chairs, their rear legs shorter than

the front ones, are scattered about the room. The
“hind legs” are sawed off to give the patrons their
desired tilt without encouraging them to put their
feet on the walls. In the time of his house’s heydey,
some could be found in there every night.
of them ever got drunk though,” he said.

“None

A MUCH USED SONG:

(Columnist in Miss. A. & M. Reflector)

The “W. & L. Swing” has been since its composi-
tion quite a while ago, a boon to cheerleaders as a
“pep” rouser. There’s no way of telling just how
many times it is played to the day, but judging from
the number of times we hear it here at “Ole Agri-
meck,” it must be in the grillions. It is the first piece
of music that the amateur musician learns. During
every college year, it is caterwauled across the quad-
rangle by trumpets, French horns, bass horns, clari-
nets, oboes, saxophones, flutes, picolos, violins, and
faith-and-be-jabbers by lads blowing into jugs. Old
Sock does believe the “Swing” is a song like “Old
Black Joe” and “Just Before the Battle Mother,” it
has stood the test of time.

CHAPEL VISITORS:

There was an increase of almost a thousand vis-
itors to the Lee Memorial chapel for the month of
March, 1929, over the same month in 1928. 2,647
visitors from 38 states and eight foreign countries
registered at the chapel last month. ‘There were vis-
itors from Australia, France, Japan, Canada, Eng-
land, Korea, Mexico and Central America. Rear-
Admiral Washington and Lee Capps of the U. 5.
Navy, U. S. Senator George H. Moses, from New
Hampshire and Secretary of Labor James J. Davis
were among the most prominent visitors.

— - —fo—-—

FIFTY YEARS AGO

(From April, 1879, issue of Lexington Gazette) :
“April Fools—The young gentlemen of the Univer-
sity celebrated the advent of ‘All Fools’ Day’ by a
nocturnal parade and commotion. We are glad to
notice that no damage was occasioned to property by
King Rex and his mob. We could advise everybody
on these annual occasions to keep temper. Young
men will have fun, and to get mad and worried at a
‘mob’ is madness sure enough.”

 

 

i ea ed eee

i a

