Arch,

 

 

 

 

 

bis 75> “LESRARY OF
ai? WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
yo & LEXINGTON, VA. 24450
ae
° HE ALUMNI MAGAZINE.
Washington and Lee University
Volume V MAY, 1930 Number 5
uN 20 977

New PRESIDENT GAINES

To the Chair of Lee
$2.50 Per Year

 

25c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business

at a distance, or of a special professional character.

Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-

tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

rectory. Rates on application.

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg.,
Atlantic City, N. J.

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAwyeEr

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg.,
Huntington, West Virgina

R. E. MOORE

ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.,

Bluefield, W. Va.

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, 718 and ’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

Doucias, OBear & DovucLas

Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

 

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE

Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Florida

W.H. Jackson, 08 J. W. Dupree, '21

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

 

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

Compliments of the President of the

Alumni, Inc.

E. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments |
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

 

CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN
ATTORNEY At Law

Suite 881 Mills Building
San Francisco, California

Telephone Sutter 3363

General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

 

Walter E. McDougle, LL.B., 91
Robert B. McDougle, B.A., 717, LL.B., ’20

McDOUGLE and McDOUGLE
ATTORNEYS-AT-LAW
25-27-29 Citigens National Bank Building
Parkersburg, W. Va.

 

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713
ATTORNEY At LAW

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

 

James E.. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 710

| David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
LAw OFFICES
Commercial National Bank Building,

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

GREENBRIER MILITARY SCHOOL
Lewisburg, W. Va.

H. B. Moors, Principal

J. M. Moors, 08, Assistant Principal

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

W. and L,, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency.
one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

There are usually

Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

CONTENTS

PAGE PAGE
Now Presideit ee 5 Resignation E. P. Davis, P. B. K. Alumni .... 20
‘Three Personalities 621057... p ee ee ero Pomeccomuis Day... 2 ee ee ee 21
Dean Carmpiell Fhoneteds cc de cer emensnw enews / Rie Board, <Minals A030. decesmier es cs ess Ze
et S) i eee rae Ba 23
Address by Robert H.. lucker......022.4. ---.» ? Alumni Meetings, New York .............--- 24
Viributes to Lee a ce 1] Richmond, Louisville, Memphis ................ 25
Dr. Shannon’s Chaucer Reviewed .............. 12 T. &. McPheeters, Oe eee 26
Footha: Baskett? 2 1 WD. A. Anderson, 02, LJ Desha, 06 1a... 2a
Wereg aie, Track, Baschal 0 ee es. 14 D. W. Thornburg, 12, “Shorty” Harms, 15... 2
Fancy Dies 44, bos. Oe OO ee ee. . ES Beau Brummel, “Buzz” Letcher, ’26 Cited .... 30
Tapping, Retiring President. Honored .......4 4. 16 OH Paterson 19; News Britis 71... 702 31
Literary ‘Taste or cindeits LZ Obituary, Martiages 220000, 0 0 eee oe
Orr OGG fae or ei ee 18 Perserals 2 gk ve 33
Cslecuiiies ffm “Cy  NOURP . 6. g a ae 19

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

Special: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON

(Prices on application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert FE. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

Lexington, Virginia

Y Succession

 

WARREN GAMALIEL HARDING
“The king is dead...”

 

In the summer of 1923, his term of office half
complete, his cabinet not yet discredited, War-
ren Gamaliel Harding, 29th U.S. President, was
prostrated by ptomaine poisoning, complicated
by bronchial pneumonia. For days the country
waited anxiously, and on August 2nd, doctors
became confident of recovery. ...As TIME,
in part, reported subsequent events:

... Lowards evening the President seemed in good
health. Mrs. Harding and a woman nurse were with
him. Mrs. Harding was reading aloud. Without warn-
ing a tremor shook his frame and he collapsed. Phy-
sicians were summoned. It was announced that the
President had died of cerebral apoplexy at 7:30 p.m.,
Pacinc time... .

In the early morning hours of August 3 an auto-
mobile full of newspaper correspondents sped over
Vermont roads to Plymouth Notch at the southern
end of the Green Mountains. It drew up at the

 

CALVIN CooLinGE
“,..long live the king!”

 

 

Keystone
Joun C. Coo.ipGe
Justice of the Peace

Bachrach

  

two-story, white frame house of John C. Coolidge,
father of the Vice President. Word was sent upstairs
of the tremendous news from San Francisco. The
Vice President had retired for the night. In a few
moments he had dressed and descended the stairs
with his wife. The scene was in effect, if not in
words, a representation of the ancient theme: “The
King is dead; long live the King!”

In an unpretentious New England living room
Mr. Coolidge, pale, and silent, read the telegrams
telling of President Harding’s death. Then he slowly
dictated a statement expressing his sorrow, and his
intention of carrying out the policies of his prede-
cessor, and also a telegram of condolence and sym-
pathy to Mrs. Harding, signed “Calvin Coolidge;
Grace Coolidge.”

The next morning, the oath of office having been
wired from Washington, Calvin Coolidge was sworn
in as President of the United States, by his father, a
Justice of the Peace. ...

Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias,
turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publica-
tions, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal
in the sense that they report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups.

TIME

The Weekly Newsmagazine

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ~

Published by Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

E. C. Carrrey, President

FE. L. Grauam, Jr., Treasurer

VeRBON FE. Kemp, Editor

 

VoL. V

MAY, 1930

No. 5

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

 

PRESIDENT FINDING:

Dr. Henry Louis Smith, aged 70, able and _ pro-
eressive president of Washington and Lee since 1912,
retired quietly to Greensboro, N. C. soon after Jan-
tary 1, ,

In the meantime, the Trustees’ committee on the
presidency had carefully considered over eighty pos-
sible prospects, had buried two of their own num-
ber, had looked into existing campus conditions more
closely, had dared tackle the correlation of educa-
tional trends and existing conditions at Washington
and Lee with the qualifications necessary for the
new president to possess.

No decision had been reached by January 1. The
faculty executive committee was appointed to direct
affairs until the Founders’ Day meeting of the
Board January 19.

At-that meeting Dr. Robert H. Tucker, professor
of Economics and Business Administration, was ap-
pointed acting president to serve until Dr. Smith’s
permanent successor was chosen. ‘Their temporary
choice was held with wide favor, was recommended
editorially for permanency.

The Board met again on February 22 in Rich-
mond, Va., completed their long and arduous labor,
elected Dr. Frank P. Gaines, President of Wake
Forest College, of Wake Forest, N. C.

NEW PRESIDENT:

Born at Due West, S. C., in 1892, Washington
and Lee’s new president is 38 years old. He was
- educated at Fork Union Military Academy, the Uni-
versity of Richmond, the University of Chicago and
Columbia University, acquiring his Bachelor’s, Mas-
ter’s and Doctor’s degrees. Dr. Gaines taught at
Mississippi A. M., Furman University, the Univer-
sity of Virginia and Columbia University. He be-
came President of Wake Forest College, N. C. in
1927. At one time he was literary editor of the
Greenville, S. C. Piedmont and is the author of
“The Southern Plantation.”

Thus, in brief is the bare record of the man
chosen to sit in the seat of Lee. Additional qualifi-
cations impressed upon the Board of Trustees after
conferring with and about him were his high schol-
arship, his youthful and dynamic personality, his

reputation as a public speaker, his belief in the prin-
ciples of liberal arts education, his reputation as an
executive and organizer achieved during two brief
years as president of the small Wake Forest Baptist
institution, his many and splendid personal and moral
characteristics, his religious training and background.
Dr. Frank Pendleton Gaines comes to Washington
and Lee with a future ahead of him, instead of be-
hind; with qualifications which insure the advance-
ment of Washington and Lee under his administra-
tion. He brings a youthful vigor and clear modern
outlook tempered by a quiet dignity; a vision for the
future from the light of the not too distant past.
His resignation was presented to the official Board
at Wake Forest upon his acceptance of the position
at Washington and Lee. He will take office July
1 or September 1, will most likely be formally inau-
gurated on Founders’ Day, January 19, 1931.

o,
ee cc

NEWSPAPER COMMENTS

IN THE OFFICE OF LEE:

To the man who accepts the presidency of Wash-
ington and Lee University falls the responsibility of
upholding high traditions. The institution is linked
inseparably with the memories of Virginia’s two most

distinguished sons. Its traditions, however, are based

not alone on these precious connections, but upon the
high standing the University has assumed in the
world of education. Graduates of Washington and
Lee are conspicuous factors in the professional and
intellectual life of the country. Mention only of the
names of John W. Davis, Newton D. Baker and
Henry W. Anderson, graduates of its law school, is
sufficient to establish the excellence of instruction in
that department of the University.

The board of visitors of Washington and Lee be-
lieves that in Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, now pres-
ident of Wake Forest college, it has found the man
who measures up to the high standards required of
the University’s presidents. He will succeed Dr.
Henry Louis Smith, another North Carolina educator
brought to Lexington when Dr. George Denny, some
two decades ago, answered the call from the Uni-
versity of Alabama. If the new president lives up
to the level upon which his predecessor always dis-

 

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

charged the duties of a high office, friends of Wash-
ington and Lee will find no occasion to regret the ac-
tion of the board of visitors. :

Dr. Gaines will be no stranger to Virginia. Born
in South Carolina, he came to this state as a boy to

obtain his preliminary education at Fork Union Mili-

tary academy. From there he went to Richmond col-
lege where he was graduated with the degree of
bachelor of arts. His post-graduate training was re-
ceived at Columbia and the University of Chicago.
During his teaching and administrative days Dr.
Gaines has been connected with Green Bay (Vir-
ginia) High school, the University of Virginia, the
Mississippi Agricultural and Mechanical college,
Furman and Wake Forest.

It will be seen that the new president of W ashing-

ton and Lee enjoys an excellent background of edu-
cational work. Even more important, however, is
the fact that his sphere of activity was never limited.
He is acquainted with the teaching and administra-
tive methods employed in colleges and universities in
all sections of the country. This knowledge will be
of inestimable value to him in the direction of affairs
at Washington and Lee.

For this presidency many distinguished names, in-
cluding that of John W. Davis, have been mentioned.
The choice finally fell on Dr. Gaines. He is the
recipient of a great honor. His is a golden oppor-
tunity. Appreciative of the one and taking advan-
tage of the other, he cannot fail to attain eminent suc-
cess in the office once held by Robert E. Lee—Roa-
noke World News.

W. AND L. CHOOSES WISELY:

For one of the most difficult educational posts in
America, the trustees of Washington and Lee have
chosen one of the best equipped young college execu-
tives.

Washington and Lee has great educational respon-
sibility because of the lofty names associated with it.
No touch of shoddiness or of charlatanry can attach
to a work that Washington endowed and Lee admin-
istered. Yet Washington and Lee has few wealthy
alumni to provide money, and the school lacks either
denominational or state support. It has had a few
benefactors, notably among the McCormicks and in the
Doremus family, but the bulk cf the Doremus legacy
is subject to a life interest that has not yet expired.
In addition to its financial problems, Washington and
Lee has in its charter a singular provision under
which the president is subject to the control of the
faculty in most matters of curriculum and adminis-
tration. All the responsibility of leadership is on the
president, but as for actual authority, he has only one
vote in the faculty.

Despite these unusual conditions, President Henry

Louis Smith added more than $1,000,000 to the endow-
ment of the University during his administration, and —
was able to maintain a progressive educational policy
in the face of differences between the faculty advo-
cates of a “practical” and a “cultural” course of study.
Where Dr. Smith left off, Frank P. Gaines can take
up vigorously and wisely. He is thirty-eight, with
matured judgment and abundant energy, possessed of
fine academic training, a most effective speaker, a
good administrator, and an uncompromising  sup-
porter of sound, thorough academic methods. He is
so admirably suited for the post that the trustees are
to be congratulated on their patience in sifting through
many names until they found the right man. He has
the courage and the ability to meet the situation at
Lexington and to upbuild an even greater school. —
Richmond Times Dispatch.

THREE PERSONALITIES:

With the approach of President Smith’s retirement
and during the transitory period through which Wash-
ington and Lee has gone in common with all educa-
tional institutions during the past five years three no-
table characters have been outstanding in the crucible
at Washington and Lee. Without spectacie or dis-
play, without desire or need for recognition, they have
stood over the charts in the pilot house, have tended
the propelling machinery, have watched keenly from
the lookout’s tower. They are:

Paul M. Penick, B.L., ’96:

Long the shrewd and able Secretary-Treasurer of
Washington and Lee, who has deftly influenced the
course of the varied affairs of Washington and Lee
while administering funds, keeping accounts, direct-
ing construction and improvements.

He was born near Lexington, entered the academic

 

Pau, M. PENick, ’96
His office is under his hat

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE /

school in 1882, returned to take his law degree in
1896. He married Miss Frances Monroe of Lexing-
ton, practiced law, became identified with many lo-
cal business enterprises, president of the Rockbridge
National Bank and treasurer of Washington and Lee.

Mixing a warm humanity with keen business acu-
men and a stern sense of right and justice, he has so
touched civic, campus, curricular and administrative
affairs that none knew from whence the benign guid-
ance came, few felt the pull at the reins, yet all saw
the results achieved.

Paternal, he carries his office under his hat, relies
upon individual contacts, upon able assistants; offers
no advice, speaks with warm friendship or quiet but
forceful sternness, as the occasion demands. He was
the quiet, efficient and diligent “partner” throughout
the administration of President Henry Louis Smith.

Robert H. Tucker:

Quietly powerful professor of economics to whom
the art of teaching is a science and the science of
teaching an art. Aside from many economic and tax
studies and investigations for the State of Virginia
and the State Chamber of Commerce, he rendered,
constant and steady service to Washington and Lee in
matters of administration during the transition. His
selection as acting president by the Trustees at their
Founders’ Day meeting was expected. |

Just at that time Dr. Tucker was prominently and
frequently mentioned as the successor to able Va.
State T'ax Commissioner C. H.° Morrisette, ’15, re-
signed. Prophesying newspapers pictured the possi-
bility of his choice between the important State Post
and the permanent incumbency of the presidency of
Washington and Lee.

Modest, quiet and unassuming, yet forceful, ener-
getic and friendly, Dr. Tucker has been nurtured in
cloistered educational halls throughout his profes-
sional life. But neither theorist nor academician he
is a keen and shrewd man of practical affairs. His
good judgment, balanced outlook and careful pro-
gressiveness have been governing influences.

George W. St. Clair, 91:

Rector, Chairman of the University’s Board of
trustees since the retirement from that post of beloved
William A. Anderson, ’61, prominent coal operator
and business man of South West Virginia, who led
the painstaking search for the new president.

Mr. St. Clair, travelled over the entire Eastern por-
tion of the United States, interviewed prospects, con-

sulted the opinions of others, directed the unselfish

activities of his fellow presidential committeemen.
Withal, he has looked more closely into the Uni-

versity’s internal affairs, has touched its pulse, has

examined alumni, faculty and student relationships,

has gained a perspective upon the University’s rela-
tion to the public at large.

The labor of seeking and choosing a president was
an awesome heritage from his late good and close
friends, John S. Munce and Hugh B. Sproul, ’92,
predecessors as chairman of the Committee who died
before accomplishing their task.

BEGINS HIS CAREER:

Having spent forty-nine of his seventy years as a
college teacher, Dr. Henry Louis Smith has resigned
from the presidency of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity and will enter on a business career in order to ac-
cumulate a little money to care for him in his old age.
He really wanted to start on his new life a year or
so ago and he resigned in October, 1928, but he con-
tinued his work at the request of the trustees. What
did a year or so mean, anyway?

The concern in Greensboro, N. C., that is to have
the services of this bright youth hereafter is to be
congratulated. Seldom does the opportunity come to
add to the staff a young chap with a half-centurv’s
experience as an educator and one who has demon-
strated he possesses the patience necessary for delib-
erate action.

Unless the new employer has taken the precaution
to get Dr. Smith’s signature to a contract he is likely
to find that some more enterprising corporation will
grab him within a dozen years or so by offering
the advantages of a pension system or some other
device that will interest a young man looking after
his future—Miami, Fla., “Herald,’ Jan. 9, 1930.

°

FACULTY
DEAN CAMPBELL HONORED:

Potent in the affairs of Southern educational insti-
tutions is the Association of Colleges and Secondary
Schools of the Southern States. In convention at
Lexington, Ky., this association elected Dr. Harry D.
Campbell, ’82, Dean of Washington and Lee and Pro-
fessor of geology, as president. He succeeded Chan-
cellor J. H. Kirkland of Vanderbilt in that office.

Long active in the association which honored him,
“Dean Harry” achieves this distinction as the crown
of a long and honorable career. Beloved by many
an alumnus, because of many good words of advice
and gracious acts of assistance as well as because of
his happy facility to recall names and faces upon the
occasion of casual meeting, he has seen service under
four great presidents of Washington and Lee, once
served jointly with his brother, the late John L. Camp-
bell as president pro tem, now enters service under
the fifth president.

 

 

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Dean H. D. CAmppety, ’82

“Remembers Names and Faces”

HOWE HALL:

Four years ago Washington and Lee constructed its
most modern, complete and costly instructional building,
dedicated it to the science of chemistry, equipped it
with the latest and best chemical laboratory apparatus,
encompassed versatile, energetic and internationally
prominent Dr. James Lewis Howe among his test
tubes, crucibles and vari-titled tomes.

Now, as Dr. Howe, carrying lightly his nearly sev-
enty years, approaches retirement, the Ring-Tum-Phi,
student news sheet, thoughtfully proposes that the
chemistry building be named “Howe Hall” in his
honor.

If a second is needed there are many alumni who
will arise with one voice to endorse such an act of
recognition.

DEAN CAMPBELL TO SPEAK:

“The History of the Valley of Virginia and Its Re-
lation to Geology” will be the subject of a talk by Dr.
Henry D. Campbell, dean of Washington and I.ee
University, to the Virginia Academy of Science at a
meeting at Randolph-Macon Woman’s College in
Lynchburg, May 9.

Marcellus H. Stowe, assistant professor of geology
at Washington and Lee University, will read a pa-

per on “Calcareous Concretions in Streams’ also at
that time.

Dr. Campbell will cover the history of the Valley of
Virginia and its invasions by humans and will show
how geologic conditions were favorable to Stonewall
Jackson’s famous Valley campaign of the Civil War.
Dr. Campbell is prominent nationally as a geologist, and
is a fellow of the Geological Society of America. He is
a member of Phi Beta Kappa and the American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science.

PARK ADVOCATE:

Representing the Virginia Academy of Science, of
which he is president, Dr. W. D. Hoyt, professor of
biology, presided over a conference on the establish-
ment of a Virginia Park System at Richmond during
December. |

ESSAY MONEY:

Submitting his thesis on “The Origins of the Na-
tional Banking System,” Dr. L. C. Hilderman of the
Washington and Lee history department, recently
won a second prize of $500 in the annual Hart, Shaff-
ner & Marx economic essay contest.

“TWO BITS”:

Smallest coin in weight and size of the current
British monetary units is the six-pence piece. Two
six-pence pieces, called bits, are the equivalent of a
shilling, which is similar in worth and size to the
American twenty-five cent piece. Thus the American
“quarter” became “two bits” in many modern minds.

To enter the Lee Chapel, view the tomb of the Lees,
gaze upon Valentine’s famous recumbent statue and
enjoy the simple beauties of the Chapel visitors must
now pay “two-bits.” Entrance is through the base-
ment at the rear through the new “Lee Museum.”

Now posted at the door is the following notice:

“By order of the board of trustees, a 25 cent fee is
collected for admission to chapel and museum.

“This charge is necessary to defray expenses of
guardianship and janitor service imposed by the in-
creasing number of visitors.

“The following persons are exempt from this charge:
Veterans of the Civil War, professors, officers, stu-
dents and alumni of Washington and Lee and the Vir-
ginia Military Institute.”

Action by the University Trustees authorizing the
admission charge taken over a year ago. Many and
varied objections were raised. The action was not
put in force. Instead, boxes for voluntary contribu-
tions for upkeep and maintenance of the Chapel were
strategically placed. |

In the meantime expensive repairs and improve-
ments were made. The number of visitors steadily

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

increased. Additional custodians, guides and caretak-
ers were necessary.

It is estimated that 100,000 people visit the Chapel
yearly. At current rates, receipts would total $25,000
per year, a sum equivalent to 5% on one-half million
dollars, which is one-third of the University’s pres-
ent income bearing endowment. |

Say opponents to the charge in effect, “It cheapens
and commercializes; it is unworthy and uncalled for.”

Say proponents, “It is necessary for repairs, upkeep
and maintenance. All other American (and foreign)
shrines are subject to an admission charge.”

TUCKER’S YEAR:

Among many other activities of Dr. Robert H.
Tucker, now acting president, have been the prepara-
tion and publication of a report on Virginia Tax Re-
forms for the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce,
an address before the Manhattan Alumni Association,
the preparation of an article on Virginia’s revenue sys-
tem for the University of Virginia News Letter, at-
tendance at several State conferences, other addresses.

DEBATES:

Coached by Prof. M. G. Bauer, students debated
with Princeton and American Universities. Against
Princeton they won with the affirmative on the sub-
ject “That Higher Fiducation Should Be Given Only to
Those with Special Ability,” their second victory over
old Nasseau in two years.

THE PLACE OF WASHINGTON AND LEE
IN THE EDUCATIONAL SCHEME OF
THE SOUTH:

Ropert H. Tucker

Professor of Economics and Acting Presi-
dent, Washington and Lee University

(Adapted from an address made at the annual
meeting of the Manhattan Alumni Association, New
York City, November 8, 1929 and published by per-
mission of the Southern Collegian.)

Paradoxical as it may seem, some of the most
serious problems that Washington and Lee must
face in the coming years are rooted in the recent
growth of wealth and industry in the Southern States.
None of these problems is more important than that
of the place of Washington and Lee in the new ed-
ucational system which is gradually developing in
the South.

The industrialization of the South has become a
phrase to conjure with. The subject is widely
heralded and frequently exaggerated and misunder-
stood. For reasons of soil and climate, the South
will probably always remain a predominantly agri-

 

eG

 

ROBERT H.TUCKER
A Small Southern College

cultural section. It is true, however, that the South-
ern states are being industrialized at a rapid rate,
and that changes are in progress which are revolu-
tionizing the social structure and creating new social
and industrial problems. Evidences of these changes
are visible on all sides, and at no point are they more
perceptible than in the field of education.

Already many persons are beginning to express
the fear that the coming of the machine technique
and the machine spirit may mean the undermining of
our intellectual culture. There is some basis for
this fear. Here and there one may note the ap-
pearance of crass materialism in quarters where it
should least be expected. Here and there one may
detect a tendency on the part of some persons to
display themselves unduly in their newly acquired
wealth. Here and there one may observe evidences
of the social changes and conflicts that invariably ac-
company the mechanization of industry and the con-
eregation of population in larger centers.

On the whole, however, I think these fears are
groundless. The phenomena just mentioned are on
the surface—the flotsam and jetsam cast up with
every change of the social tide. Changes there must
be, with emphasis more and more upon science and
the scientific method, but the ultimate results will
undoubtedly be good. Everything depends upon
whether we of the South learn to master the ma-
chine or permit the machine to master us.

In the field of education these changes do not
imply a drift from long-established moorings, or for-
getfulness of educational traditions and background,
or departure from long-cherished ideals of schol-
arship. They do imply a shift in content and em-
phasis, and within reasonable bounds, this is as it
Increased wealth, which will naturally

should be.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

flow from industrialization, will form the basis ‘of a
higher and more enduring culture than the South has
known in the past.

Particularly is it true that with respect to revenues
available for educational purposes, the Southern
states are at last coming into their own. ‘These
states are for the first time in a position adequately
to finance and equip their schools and coileges and
universities. Also the South, in contrast with the
North and Fast, is now definitely committed to a
system of state-supported colleges and universities,
such as the West has been developing for a genera-
tion or more. State revenues are growing, state ap-
propriations are increasing in size, and great state
universities, with almost unlimited resources at their
disposal, are already in the making.

These conditions cannot fail to exert a profound
influence upon Washington and Lee, as upon all the
privately supported educational institutions of the
South. They constitute the environment in which
Washington and Lee has developed in the years just
passed and in which it must work out its destiny in
the years to come. No discussion of Washington
and Lee and its place in the educational worid can
be adequate or effective if it fails to take into con-
sideration the facts of this environment.

Washington and Lee’s progress in the past fifteen
years has been gratifying and creditable, but natur-
ally in its physical equipment it has not kept pace
with some of the state-supported schools. Its chief
advances have been of the immaterial kind. High
levels of student relations and conduct have been
maintained in the face of some forces that have
tended to undermine them. Scholastic standards,
both of entrance and of graduation, have been raised.
The University has had the wisdom and the hardi-
hood to resist the infection of numbers, holding its
student-body to a size well adapted to its equipment
and instructional force. In this respect it has re-
tained its incomparable advantage over many of the
state-supported institutions, which must continue to
swell their numbers if for no other reason than for
their influence upon state legislatures. Washington
and Lee has also maintained its traditions, set by
General Lee in the far-reaching reorganization ef-
fected in his brief administration, of modifying its
curriculum to meet the changes in social conditions
and educational needs. Recent modifications, like
those of the preceding decades, have again placed the
institution in an advanced position.

On the material side, the conditions are less coni-
forting, though here again creditable advancement
has been made. In terms of enrollment, teaching
force, income and endowment, there has been sub-
stantial growth since 1915. The student enrollment
has risen from 513 to 925; teaching force, from 24

professors and 8 student instructors to 54 professors
and 2 student instructors; annual income, from ap-
proximately $113,000 to $348,000; and productive
endowment, from $950,000 to $1,460,000. Buildings
and equipment have increased correspondingly.

But analysis of these figures reveals the funda-
mental dangers of the present situation. In 1915
considerably more than half the income of the Uni-
versity was derived from endowment and the rest
from tuition fees. At the present time the condi-
tions are just the reverse. The tuition fee has been
materially increased and approximately two-thirds of
the annual income of the institution is now derived
from this source, while only about one-third is de-
rived from endowment. Although the total produc-
tive endowment has increased moderately since 1915,
endowment per student has shown a marked decrease,
falling from nearly $2,000 in 1915 to approximately
$1,500 in 1930. In terms of “purchasing power,”
endowment per student has been reduced by prac-
tically one-half, and the institution has been forced
into the position of depending largely upon tuition
fees for support.

Though it is unnecessary to enter into the numer-
ous consequences of these changes, especially in the
competition with the state colleges and universities,
it may be pointed out that from the standpoint oi
finances, Washington and Lee has been brought to
a state of “unstable equilibrium.” A period of bus-
iness depression, accompanied by a check in. the
movement of students from high-school to college
and a consequent reduction in student enrollment
might bring serious results.

These statements should not be misunderstood or
misconstrued. Frank analysis of a problem is the
first step in its solution. Such analysis implies no
pessimism or doubt of the future. From the point
of view of buildings, equipment, teaching force, and
general finances, Washington and Lee occupies a
favorable position as compared with other institu-
tions of its class. There is no reason to doubt that
the institution can continue to function, and meet its
problems in the future as it has met them in the past.
The present situation, however, holds three grave
dangers. The first is that in the struggle to maintain
its quota of students, upon whom its income so
vitally depends, the University will spread its con-
stituency so thinly over the country as to lose the
coherence, both of student-body and alumni, neces-
sary to make an educational institution an effective
force. The second is, that for the same reasons the
institution may find it necessary to select its student-
body less carefully. The third is, that it may be
forced to increase further its tuition fee and thus
become a college which only the wealthy can afford
to attend. ‘To avoid these dangers and to maintain

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

its proper position among the growing educational
institutions of the South, Washington and Lee will
require for endowment and buildings in the next few
years from $3,000,000 to $5,000,000.

In the light of these facts and conditions it 1s no
exaggeration to say that Washington and Lee is con-
fronted by a difficult problem and that the time has
come for a readjustment of perspective and purposes
and a clear determination of Washington and Lee’s
place and functions in the new educational scheme
of the South. Yet it can be said in truth that
probably no other institution has ever had its posi-
tion and course for the future more clearly worked
out by the force of inevitable circumstances.

Clearly there is no place for Washington and Lee
in the field of purely technical or vocational educa-
tion. This field is already occupied by strong state
institutions, many of which are aided by the Federal
government. ‘There is also no reason for Washing-
ton and Lee to enter the field now occupied by the
denominational or sectarian colleges. ‘These colleges
abound in every Southern state. And for the in-
stitution to attempt to compete with the state uni-
versities in number of students or of courses and
departments would be futile without .an endowment
of $20,000,000 or $25,000,000.

Only one place is left. ‘That is the one to which
Washington and Lee has aspiréd in the past, and in
which it must establish itself more and more securely
in the years to come. The institution must be dis-
tinctive, and its distinctive place is that of the typi-

cal Southern college, with limited numbers, with a.

favorable ratio of equipment and instructional force
to student-body, and with close personal contacts in
a cultural background. ‘This implies no breaking of
national connections or loss in the advantages of a
nationally representative campus life. It does imply
that the institution should occupy more and more in
the South a position similar to that now occupied in
New England by some of the great smaller colleges
of that section.

In other words, with its history and traditions and
background, Washington and Lee must become the
soul of the new South, interpreting the South to it-
self, conserving the spirit of the past and translating
‘it into the actualities of the present. In this respect
there is no other institution in the South that can con-
test its position. It is this that will exalt it amony
the colleges and strengthen and sustain it, whatever
its financial position may be. Not only this, but the
needed financial support will not be slow in coming,
once the facts of Washington and Lee’s unique place
and functions are firmly established in the public
mind.

We can build here upon these principles in the
firm confidence that Washington and Lee will boldly

challenge the future and continue to inculcate in its
students those qualities that elevate the mind and
heart and make ambition virtue.

STRANGER PUTS WREATH ON TOMB OF
GENERAL LEE:

Gen. Robert E. Lee recently received a tribute from
Clem W. Gerson, a native of England, now making
his temporary home at Washington. Mr. Gerson has
always admired and honored General Lee. Recently
he came to Lee’s shrine here and placed on the re-
cumbent statue a wreath bearing the inscription:
“In memory of a very great gentleman, from a
stranger.”

MONTAGUE PAYS TRIBUTE TO LEE:

“In his day and time, Robert FE. Lee was the best
mannered man in America,’ Congressman Andrew
J. Montague, former Governor of Virginia, told stu-
dents and faculty of Washington and Lee University
at the annual Founders’ Day assembly.

General Lee’s birthday is each year set aside by
the university trustees as Founders’ Day. As the
regular date fell on Sunday this year, exercises were
held Monday, January 20.

“This is the day of education and association,”
Congressman Montague said. “To encourage young
people to accomplish these ideals of today, I can
think of no better example than the life of Lee.

“At the end of the war, the general found himself
in a country in which, in proportion to population,
more men. were killed and more property was de-
stroyed than in France during the World War. He
recognized education as the South’s only hope of re-
building and gave a tremendous impetus to the con-
crete application of science. Look at the result of
his application now.”

In reviewing the general’s life, the speaker com-
pared it with that of Washington and “Stonewall”
Jackson. Their success, he explained, was due to their
noble birth; and “people in every clime have someone
cr something they worship-—the public mind loved
lee. ‘General Lee did not approve of secession, but
when his mother state seceded, he followed her flag
with energy, courage and wisdom.

“Tee was a faithful student,’ he concluded, “and
because of this faithfulness, he was exacting of others.
You students at Washington and Lee are fortunate
to be near an association of memory that takes you
into the remembrance of two such great men.”

LEE PORTRAIT:

A prized likeness of General Robert E. Lee was
recently presented Lee Memorial chapel on the cam-

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

pus of Washington and Lee University here by Ed-
ward V. Valentine, of Richmond, sculptor of Val-
entine’s recumbent statue of General Lee at his tomb.
Mr. Valentine is still living, and aged man, at Rich-
mond.

A descriptive note added by the donor explains
the three-quarter photograph to be one of four or-
dered by the General in 1864, two standing, one pro-
file, and one three-quarters. ‘These were made and
sent through the blockade to Valentine in Berlin,
where he modeled a statuette from them and sent it
to the Southern Bazaar in Liverpool to be sold for
the Southern cause. “T prize this photograph above
all other likenesses,” added Mr. Valentine.

DR. SHANNON’S “CHAUCER AND THE RO-
MAN POETS” WIDELY REVIEWED:

A brief notice was given in the fall of Chaucer
and the Roman Poets by Edgar Finley Shannon,
Professor of English in Washington and Lee Uni-

versity, Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Mass.

We reserved fuller comment until the reception ot
the book by the scholarly public should enable us to
speak with authority. It is now being widely re-
viewed in this country and in England. <A distin-
guished professor has called it “brilliant literary
criticism.” :

From a long review in the Boston Evening Tran-
script we quote the first and last paragraphs:

The influence of the Roman poets on Chaucer,
the kinship manifest in their spirit and in their
writings, is admirably demonstrated and _ discussed
by Professor Shannon of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, in the seventh volume of the Harvard Stud-
ies in Comparative Literature. Of the classic poets,
the greatest influence under which Chaucer worked
was that of Ovid, from whom he drew an all but
endless store of material—stories he retold and
thought he reclothed—to say nothing of a vast
amount of classical and mythological information he
obtained. 3

Ovid had the greatest influence on Chaucer of
any of the Roman poets. However, Professor Shan-
non finds that Virgil, Juvenal, Lucan, and others less
well known, were used freely though not quite so ex-
tensively. A good bibliography and index make this
contribution to philological literature as valuable to
scholars as it is of interest to humanists.

Among numerous other reviews we select that of
the London Times Literary Supplement as the most
significant. This publication is recognized as the
ablest literary journal in the world. For it to de-
vote a full column to a book, as it has done to Dr.
Shannon’s, is a guarantee of the book’s importance.

The Times reviews are critically discriminating, and
it is not often that it publishes one as complimentary
throughout as its review of Chaucer and the Roman
Poets. The following quotation shows the care
with which the Times reviewer has read the book
before undertaking to discuss it:

Dr. Shannon’s study of the indebtedness of Chau-
cer to the chief Latin poets is a good book. Early
in his treatise Dr. Shannon wins his readers’ confi-
dence by the pains which he has taken to discover
the group to which Chaucer’s manuscript of Ovid
belonged and the titles given in the fourteenth cen-
tury to his various poems. Books were then often
quoted in the genitive case, with “liber” understood
as governing it, as in the case of “Judicum” by
which the Book of Judges was usually named. We
should thus expect Chaucer to refer to the “Meta-
morphoses” as “Metamorphoseon” (the Greek plu-
ral), but as a fact he uses the singular Metamor-
phoseos, and was debited by Skeat with a “slight er-
ror’ for so doing. Dr. Shannon, however, shows
that the singular form was predominant in Chau-
cer’s time and could be defended later, so that the
error was not of the poet’s making. More than this,
he shows that’ Corianna, the name of the mistress
whom Ovid addressed in his “Amores,” was a recog:
nized title for these poems in Chaucer’s day (other
manuscripts call them helplessly “sine titulo”); and
he explains the well-known puzzle in the poem to
“The Compleynt of feire Anelida and fals Arcite,”

First folow I Stace and after him Corinne

by supposing that the manuscript of Ovid, which in
the “Hous of Fame” is called Chaucer’s “owne
booke,” began with the ‘Amores’ under the name
of “Corinna” and contained also the “Heroides,”
which is shown to have been (after the opening
lines from Statius) the chief influence on the “Com-
pleynt.”. This is good work; and Dr. Shannon
scores also on three separate occasions by showing
that lines in which Chaucer has been accused of
misunderstanding his original are really accurate
renderings of readings which stood in medieval man-
uscripts of Ovid, although they are not to be found
in modern editions. :

It will be evident from these small examples that
Dr, Shannon possesses abundant capacity for taking
pains; and by his unwearied scrutiny of the texts of
the two poets he has established so large an influ-
ence of Ovid on Chaucer that it must in future be
taken as a canon of criticism that if a fact or phrase
in a poem of Chaucer’s is found both in Ovid and in
any other book to which Chaucer had access it can-
not be accepted as evidence that he was using the
other source; it is always more likely that the fact
or phrase was due to Ovid. On these lines Dr.
Shannon argues (in our judgment successfully)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

against Professor Livingston Lowes, who, from co-
incidences thus assailable, has magnified the influ-
ence of Machault on the tale of Ariadne in Chau-
cer’s “Iegend of ‘Good Women.”

One sentence from an American scholar completes
this resumé of the reception of Dr. Shannon’s book
—a reception which we feel sure will be very grati-
fying to Washington and Lee alumni: “He has
laid broad foundations and built towering walls in
the temple of Chaucerian scholarship.”

o,
re ae

ATHLETICS

GENERAL RESUME:

The football aspirations of the 1929 Generals did
not rise far above the dust from last year’s wreckage.
A tie with the Cavaliers of Virginia and the usual
slaughter by the Gators of Florida closed the season.

In basketball the cage team lead by lanky Leigh Wil-
liams continued its scintillating course, walked away
with the scalps of all Virginia opponents, lost only one
game each to Duke, Kentucky and West Virginia,
went to the Atlanta tournament to be eliminated by the
University of Tennessee.

Although a marked improvement was shown in box-
ing with “Bus” Malone, tutoring the ambitious pugi-
lists, the showing for the season was only mediocre.

The wrestling team was outstanding. The Gener-
als were on the big end of the score in every match.
They lost only to V. M. I. in the first Southern Con-
ference wrestling tournament, but scored high.

After a slow start, Coach Fletcher’s speed and
weight artists made a splendid showing in track and
outpointed all opponents but the University of Vir-
ginia.

Dick Smith’s ball tossers appeared to be no better
than other poor W. & L. baseball nines. As the season
developed they showed more stuff than expected and
climaxed their showing by taking a double-header from
the University of North Carolina to start their rise in
the Tri-State college league percentage column.

FOOTBALL:

1030 Scuspute

Sept. 20—Randolph Macon College (here)
Sept. 27—Hampden-Sydney (Lynchburg)
Oct. 4—Richmond (there)
Oct. 11—West Va. (Charleston)
Oct. 18—Kentucky (Lex. Ky.)

Oct. 25—St. Johns (here)
Nov. 1—V.'P. L (ere)
Nov. 8—Maryland (College Park or Lex.)
Noy. 15—Virginia (there)
Nov. 27—Duke (there)

Missing:

Will be Captain Hawkins, tackle, Jacob, quarter-
back, Cocke, end, Eberhart, halfback, Hostetter, tackle,
Martin, guard, Snodgrass, center, Seligman, guard,
Barnett, fullback and Sandifer, quarterback.

To replace the departing veterans there is little of
promise from last year’s freshman squad. Other vet-
erans remaining as a nucleus around which Coach
Oberst must build for 1930 are Groop, center, Day,
end, Jones, halfback, Faulkner, halfback, Thibodeau,
halfback, Williams, end, Bailey, tackle, Bledsoe, end,
Holstein, guard and Harris, guard.

Younger and promising players, some of whom
made distinctive showings during the 1929 season are
Long, center, Martin, halfback, Mattox, fullback,
Mitchell, fullback and Tilson, tackle.

As usual, the coach is faced by the task of creating
a line from light and unexperienced material.

To captain the 1930 Generals’ teammates elected E.
Page Bledsoe, son of Dr. FE. P. Bledsoe, ’00, of Sykes-
ville, Md. Assisting Oberst and Malone will be H.
K. “Cy” Young, °16, who will also direct the yearling
grid prospects. :

BASKETBALL:

The “point a minute’ cagemen of 1929 continued
their sterling performance through the 1930 season
with a much more difficult schedule.

Leigh Williams at center, Harris Cox at forward,
Frank Hanna, guard and Captain E. M. Wood,
shared the many plaudits which came to the team.
Barasch, Martin, Burke and Pilley alternated in the
fifth position to fill the vacancy created by the depar-
ture of Jacob from college and the forward post which
he was slated to fill.

The season’s record speaks for itself with only three
losses recorded prior to the Atlanta tournament.

Jan. 10, Washington and Lee 51—St.
(H), 16.

Jan. 11, Washington and Lee 39—Richmond
Lo), 33: /

Jan. 14, Washington and Lee 62—Bridgewater
ff) 30.

Jan. 15, Washington and Lee 33—Duke (T), 29.

Jan. 16, Washington and Lee 29—N. C. U. (T), 17.

Jan. 18, Washington and Lee 39—N. C. State
(HH), 28. |

Jan. 25, Washington and Lee 50—Virginia (H), 22.

Feb. 1, Washington and Lee 34—West Va. (Hunt-
ington), 50.

Feb. 3, Washington and Lee 29—Maryland (T), 25.

Feb. 6, Washington and Lee 32—N. Carolina
(i), 21:

Feb. 7, Washington and Lee 38—Wm. and Mary
(H), 26. ,

Johns

 

 

oo. THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Feb. 8, Washington and Lee 35—-Sewanee (H), 30.

Feb. 11, Washington and Lee 36—Virginia (T), 34.

Feb. 13, Washington and Lee 36 — Maryland
bea) 21

Feb. 17, Washington and Lee 35—V. P. I. (T), 20.

Feb. 19, Washington and Lee 26—Duke (H), 29.

Feb. 22, Washington and Lee 26 — Kentucky
(1), 23.

Feb. 25, Washington and Lee 53—V. P. 1.(H), 32.

High Scorers:

Leigh Williams, center and Harris Cox, forward,
General basket ringing aces tied for Southern Confer-
. ence high scoring honors with 130 points each. They
played in 13 Southern Conference games, with an
average of 10 points each per game.

WRESTLING:

Coach Mathis directed his matmen through a vic-
torious season, with victories over every other oppos-
ing team scheduled as follows:

W. & L. 33—W. & M. 3

W. & L. 22—Army 10

W. & L. 36—Virginia 0

W. & L. 29—N. C. State 5

W. & L. 23—V. P. I. 11

W. & L. 22—Duke 6.

Outstanding winners in individual classes were
Kaplan, 125-pound, (captain) Marshall and Oster-
man, 135-pound, Harris and Besler, 145-pound, W.
Mathis, 155-pond, Hall, 165-pound, Tilson, 175-
pound and Mitchell and Tonsmeire, unlimited.

In the Southern Conference Tournament inaugurated
at V. M. I. the Mathis charges gave way to V. M. I. in
team scoring, the Cadets capturing five out of the eight
individual championship matches, scoring 33 points. V.
P. I. came second with 17 points and the Generals tied
with North Carolina with 13 points each, Tilson for
Washington and Lee securing the only win for the
Generals in the finals with a fall.

TRACK:

A victory with 29 points scored in the first annual
indoor track meet held at the University of North
Carolina closed the indoor season for the Generals
most successfully.

With the breaking of Spring and the outdoor sea-
son the Generals prepared a strong team for the
speed and weight events. ‘They yielded their initial
engagement to Virginia on February 1, but defeated
Duke, Maryland and North Carolina State in the three
following meets.

Leading the Generals’ trackmen is “Capt.” Saudifer,
high score dash and jump star from last year. Star-
ring with him are versatile Leigh Williams, quarter
miler and low hurdler, Broderick, specialist in the

half and mile Speer, high hurdler, Finkelstein, low
hurdler and Sheppard, veteran quarter-miler.

Sandifer, Williams, Sheppard, Dickey and Brod-
erick will likely represent the Generals in the Penn
Relays on April 26. Other meets scheduled are with
Richmond (T) April 19, Duke (T), May 3, State
meet at V. P. I. May 10 and the Southern Conference
meet May 17.

BASEBALL:

The usual scarcity of stellar material darkened
Dick Smith’s diamond horizon. As in three other
sports, Leigh Williams, captain, was the starring peg
upon which to hang a team.

Williams essayed to pitch the opening game and
only allowed two hits to Drexel, but lost. Duke and
N. C. State outscored the Generals April 1 and 2. But
back on Wilson Field, Atwood and Radford de-
veloped a winning stride to defeat Lafayette, Juanita
College and Davidson. A  double-header with the
University of North Carolina convinced Lexington
fans that the Generals could play baseball.

Atwood let the Tarheels down with four hits and
two runs while his teammates crossed the platter ten
times during the first canto. In the nightcap the Tar-
heels got revenge and five runs during the first four
innings. Mr. Williams left his post at first base to

relieve Radford on the mound with the score stand-

ing at 5-0. During the final three innings, the Gen-

erals scored seven runs, led by two home runs from

the bat of the said Mr. Williams, to win 7-6.
Remaining games scheduled are as follows:

Mo Po od apr 2
Maryland (T) April 25
Navy (T) April 26
NG. state (Hl) May |
Wy. & M.({(H) May 2
Maryland (H) May 6
WE. bi) May 9
Virginia (T) May 16.

MONOGRAMS:

‘Twenty-eight major monograms, seven minor mon-
ograms and thirty-eight freshmen numerals were
awarded athletes in four sports by the Washington
and Lee Athletic Council here last night.

Varsity monograms in basketball went to Captain
KH. M. Wood, Jr., Lynchburg, Va., Harris Cox,
Osceola, Mo., Leigh Williams, Norfolk, Va., Frank
S. Hanna, St. Joseph, Mo., E. P. Martin, Jr., Balti-
more, Samuel Barasch, Rockville Center, N. Y.,
Harry Burke, New Haven, Conn., and T. L. Bauer,
Natchez, Miss., manager.

Major monograms in swimming given for outstand-
ing performance, were given to H. G. Jahncke, New

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Orleans, and E. W. Stapleton, Chicago. Minor mono-
grams in swimming were awarded R. B. Fangboner,
Fremont, Ohio, B. M. Ayers, Bridgeton, N. J., W.
T. Martin, Bristol, Va., M. J. Reis, New York City,
D. E. Nichols, Des Arc, Ark., J. C. Harris, Prattville,
Ala. and F. G. Swink, Norfolk.

Members of Washington and Lee’s undefeated
wrestling team to win monograms were: J. H. Nel-
son, Danville, N. B. Stults, Fremont, Ohio, C. H.
Davidson, Lexington, Va. J. K. Osterman, Cham-
bersburg, Pa., I. M. Belser, Columbia, $. C., W. H.
Mathis, Elmwood, Ill, N. D. Hall, Chattanooga,

-Tenn., E. C. Tilson, White Flat, Texas and Patrick

Mitchell, Portsmouth, Ohio.

Boxing monograms were awarded to R. T. Robert-
son, Carthage, Mo., Simon Sloshberg, Trenton, N. J.,
Julian Black, Chattanooea, Tenn. L. R. Robison,
Wetumpka, Ala., R. L. McKinney, Little Rock, Ark.,
H. B. Heaps, Pylesville, Md., Charles Day, Tulsa,
and Dave Moreton, Brook Haven, Miss., manager.

Paul Wofford, Johnson City, Tenn., was named
boxing manager for next year; W. T. Sale, Beattys-
ville, Ky., will manage wrestling with S. W. Wise,
Hazlehurst, Miss., junior manager and B. B. Davis,
Shelbyville, Ky., alternate. A basketball manager ot
junior rank will be chosen later.

Twenty-three players and the manager of the
Washington and Lee football squad of 1929 were
awarded monograms, officials announced at the annual
banquet tendered the team. T'wo complete teams and
an extra half back won the “W-L.”

Awards were made the following: Ends, H. Leigh
Williams, Norfolk, Va., C. W. Day, Tulsa, Okla., E.
P. Bledsoe, Sykesville, Md., and C. W. Cocke, Water
Valley, Miss.; tackles, Captain W. H. Hawkins, Pe-
tersburg, Va., D. S. Hostetter, Conway, S. C., F. R.
Bailey, Huntington, W. Va. and Willie Rosenberg,
Jacksonville, Fla.; guards, M. Seligman, Shaw, Miss.,
J. R. Martin, Greenville, S. C., P. A. Holstein, Buena
Vista, Va., and C. G. Harris, Staunton, Va.: centers
H. F. Snodgrass, Chattanooga, Tenn., and H. R.
Groop, Fitchburg, Mass.; quarter backs, D. C. Eber-
hart, Daytona Beach, Fla., and J. L. Jacob, Staunton,
Va.; half backs, M. N. Thibodeau, Waterville, Me.,
W. W. Mattox, Leesville, Va., J. G. Faulkner, Helena,
Ark., E. P. Martin, Baltimore, Md., and A. C. Jones,
Batesburg, S. C.; full backs, V. J. Barnett, Pine Bluff,
Ark., and Pat Mitchell, Portsmouth, Ohio; manager,
L. F. Powell, Richmond, Va. |

Bledsoe, Captain Hawkins, Hostetter, Seligman,
Snodgrass, Eberhart and Barnette, five linemen and
two backs, have played their last college football,
while six men. Bailey, Rosenberg, Harris, Mattox, E.
Martin and Mitchell are sophomores.

SPORTING BRIEFS:
The annual Prep Basketball tourney staged by the

 

C. A. dy. toma, (22
Brought Spanish Fiesta from Spain

Washington and Lee Athletic Association was won by
the Massanutten Military Academy of Woodstock,
Va. |

“Eddie’ Cameron, ’25, is varsity and freshman
basketball coach at Duke University.

James DeHart, one time W. & L. gridiron mentor,
has severed his connection as head coach of Duke
University, effective next fall.

Washington & Lee and V. M. I. met in athletic en-
gagement during the Southern Conference wrestling
meet for the first time since 1907.

ae
ee

STUDENT BODY
FANCY DRESS:

Over two thousand people witnessed the annual
Fancy Dress Ball during the latter part of January.
The prosaic gymnasium became the colorful scene of
a Spanish fiesta.

Street-singing penitents from the Holy Week in
Seville greeted guitar-playing Andalusians. Peasants
from old Castile, Valencian natives, Goyescas, Segov-
ians, and Jota dancers from Aragon celebrated in ob-
livion before their king and queen.

El Cids, Don Juans of Austria, Isabels, matadors,
toreadors, picadors, and Don Juan Tenorios, Spanish
ladies’ men, paraded in the presence of the rulers and
joined in a carnival march to celebrate the occasion.
About this colorfully decorated square were seen

16 _ THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

gypsies from Andalusia, in gayly embroidered man-
tones and Flamenco dancers, with their castanets
and lacey mantillas, Infantas, with their wide cart-
wheel farthingales, danced with men costumed to rep-
resent their portrait painter, Valesquez.

The main figure at the ball represented a promenade
on the day of fiesta made up of attendants and visitors
from the various provinces and was led by W. Van
Gilbert, Athens, Ala., with Miss Bebe Sanders, also
of Athens, assisted by Ernest M. Wood, Jr., Lynch-
burg, Va., with Miss Langhorne Watts, also of Lynch-
burg. Leonard H. Davis, of Portsmouth, Va., with
Miss Ada Mae Peyton, Shreveport, La., assisted by
Thomas B. Fitzhugh, Augusta, Ark., with Miss
Eleanor Wilson, Chester, Pa., led the opening figure.

As the feature event of the evening, Miss Mildred
Pierce, of Birmingham, Ala., danced a tango with
Thomas Smith, of Havana, Cuba. Music for the
dance was furnished by Jean Goldkette’s first orches-
tra, the “Casa Loma.” ,

Fancy Dress was given on the night following Jun-
ior Prom, the annual dance of the junior class. Both
dances were held during a two-day break in the Uni-
versity schedule between the end of the first semester
and the beginning of the second semester.

As usual, the famed spectacle was staged by genial
and talented Director C. EF. L,. Gill, who secured much
of his material and many of his ideas for this year’s
ball from first-hand studies of real Spanish fiestas
during his summer tours through Spain.

FACULTY STUDENT CONFERENCE:

Over two hundred students from Virginia colleges
attended the annual Faculty-Student Conference at
Lexington under the auspices of the Washington and
Lee Y. M. C. A. The theme for study was “The Col-
lege Man an Organized Religion.”

ONLY 100 CARS AT WASHINGTON AND
LEE:

There are apparently only 100 student owned cars
at Washington and Lee. ‘This number is much less
than rumor had estimated, but it is the number of cars
for which licenses were asked at the dean’s office. It
is thought, however, that a number of cars following

the recent regulations have been disposed of or stored

and will not be used during the school term. Prob-
ably fifty cars have been thus dealt with.

Under the regulation, all cars have to be registered
at the dean’s office and permission received from home
for the student to operate it. Students were fur-
nished with small blue and white license tags bearing
numbers and a Washington and Lee designation. ‘The
tags are somewhat smaller than the Lexington town
tags an cost only twenty-five cents.

“BROWSING ROOM”:

A special room off the art gallery of the Washing-
ton and Lee University Library has been set aside as
a “browsing-room,” in which was placed the collection
of books recently bequeathed the library by T. H. H.
Patterson, of Philadelphia, Miss Blanche McCrum,
librarian, announced. ‘This room is fitted as a private
library and has appropriate lights and furniture.

STUDENTS HONOR RETIRING PRESIDENT:

Declaring that the greatest leader Washington and
Lee University has had since the presidency of Gen-
eral Robert E. Lee following the close of the Civil
War, the student body of the university presented
President Henry Louis Smith with a green gold
jewelled watch at the last university assembly at which
Dr. Smith presided after half a century as an educa-
tor.

President Smith retired to private life December
31. Following the presentation speech by Student
President Lewis F. Powell, Jr., Richmond, Va., Dr.
Smith was accorded an ovation which lasted several
minutes.

The watch, joint gift of the entire student body,
came apparently as a complete surprise to the presi-
dent, who appeared deeply affected. It was in-
scribed, “To President Henry Louis Smith, in ap-
preciation of seventeen years of untiring service for
the student body of Washington and Lee University.”

At his last commencement in June, alumni and fac-
ulty members gave President Smith a silver service
as a parting gift.

TAPPING:

At the University Assembly on December 17, the
central theme of “Leadership” was exemplified in a
three-fold manner: the tapping of twelve students for
membership in Omicron Delta Kappa, the national
fraternity for campus leadership; the tapping, also, of
General John Archer Lejeune, Superintendent of the
Virginia Military Institute, and former leader of the
United States Marine Corps and the Assembly ad-
dress by him, on the subject of “Leadership”; and the
presentation by the student body of a handsome gold
watch to Dr. Henry Louis Smith, who retired Jan-
uary 1 after seventeen years of service as the leader
of Washington and Lee.

The tap day exercises of “The Circle” have come
to be an outstanding event of the campus year. ‘The
twelve students elected from the junior and senior
classes in recognition of their activity in one or more
of the following five phases of college life: scholar-
ship, athletics, journalism, social, forensic and other
activities, formed the smallest group elected in re-
cent years,

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

General Lejeune’s address on “Leadership” was one
of forceful simplicity and power. Choosing as the in-
evitable qualities of leadership, ability, understanding
of human nature, strong will, and boundless courage,
he showed that a leader’s worth is determined by his
character in controlling his objectives and accomplish-
ments. His closing illustration of an incident ob-
served while in France in service at the head of the
Marine Corps, that of an officer who unflinchingly ex-
posed himself to danger while seeking places of safety
for his men, flashed a dramatic climax to his address.

Declaring President Henry Louis Smith the great-
~est leader Washington and Lee University has had
since the presidency of Robert E. Lee, Student Body
President Lewis F. Powell, Jr., on behalf of the mem-
bers of the student body, presented President Smith
with a very handsome watch, inscribed, “To Presi-
dent Henry Louis Smith, in appreciation of seventeen
years of untiring service for the student body of
Washington and Lee.” The gift came apparently as a
complete surprise to the president who was deeply
affected, but who rallied his customary grace and wit
to accept the watch. A tremendous ovation from the
nine hundred students assembled closed the occasion
of his last appearance before the student body as the
active head of Washington and Lee.

LITERARY TASTE OF STUDENTS:

The old masters — Dickens, Thackery, Hugo and
Concord—create a “waiting line’ at the Washington
and Lee University library here, according to a recent
investigation of circulation lists by Miss Blanche Mc-
Crum, librarian. Student literary ambitions are on a
much higher plane than that frequently accorded them
by critics of college life, Miss McCrum said.

Few college men demand detective stories, mystery
tales, and stories of unrequited love today. The men
take more to smooth fiction than to that of the ‘risque
type.”

“The library at Washington and Lee is the heart of
the University,” Miss McCrum explained. “The lit-
erary pulse of students is taken by means of the spe-
cial shelf set apart and known as the ‘Students’ Shelf.’
In the interest of fair play, all colorful books added to
the collection in the library are, for one month, placed
on the shelf for student use only. In this way, all stu-
dents have access to the most talked about books before
they are caught up in the general circulation and per-
haps lost to sight for some time. A few books placed
on the shelf never arouse interest, but so great is the
interest in current literature that the library has diffh-
culty keeping a respectable number there for the pur-
poses of selection.”

Upon an analysis of the types of books “most eag-
erly” read, volumes of short stories lead. The O’Brien
Collection of “Best Short Stories’ circulates more in

a given length of time than any other book. Virginia
Hersch’s story of El Greco, entitled “The Bird of
God,” in spite of its somewhat special biographic na-
ture, Zona Gale’s “Borgia,” and Susan Glaspell’s “Fu-
gitive’s Return” are in the best seller class all the time.

“The Three Musketeers,” by Dumas, “T'wenty Thou-
sand Leagues under the Sea,” by Verne, “Dracula,”
by Stoker, “The Autobiography of Benevenuto Col-
lini,” “Roughing It” and “Life on the Mississippi,” by
Mark Twain, are all in much demand.

Non-fiction, while neither universally nor quickly
read, goes well above the average of library per cents
based upon a usual comparison of fiction and non-fic-
tion reading. Halliburton’s “New Worlds to Con-
quer” is constantly in circulation with reserves waiting
for it. Walter Lippman’s “Preface to Morals’? seems
to be carefully rather than quickly read. Such widely
difterent titles as Haldane’s “Science and Philosophy,”
Durant’s Mansions of Philosophy,’ Bower’s “The
Tragic Era,” and Ludwig’s “July, ’14” enjoy a steady
popularity. a

Most of the information not used as reading but as
reference is located in the magazine department where
one of the most complete files in the South has been
gathered. Files of magazines, including The South-
ern Collegian, first magazine of Washington and Lee
University, which was issued when General Lee was
president of the school, and copies of the Lexington
Gagette, containing accounts of Lee’s death, are here.

COMPLETED AND OCCUPIED:

The new houses of the Phi Delta Theta and Sigma
Nu fraternities are now occupied. Fire damaged the
Phi Delta Theta House slightly after the Christmas
holidays. With their completion the entrance to the
campus at the memorial gateway has become one of
stateliness and dignity, in keeping with the historic col-
lege buildings and campus lawns.

RESIGNED:

P. R. Harrison, Jr., B.S., 27, director of athletic
publicity, in order to give full time to his work in the
W. & L. Law School.

SENTENCED:
Garland Falwell of near Lynchburg,’ Va., to two

- years’ imprisonment for shooting Washington and

Lee sophomore, Gus Wiltshire, when the latter
stopped to buy soft drinks at his stand. Falwell
later broke jail, eluded capture, gave himself up.

RELIGIOUS PLAY:

The Troubadours, student dramatic and musical or-
ganization, presented the Chester Mystery plays, one
of the famous fifteenth century dramatic cycles, before
a Lexington audience during the early Christmas sea-
son.

18 3 3 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Earlier in the season the student mimes presented
four one-act plays at Staunton and Lexington. ‘They
are now directed by Prof. Arthur Ubric Moore, of the
department of public speaking.

FRATERNITY SCHOLARSHIP:

Compilation of scholarship standing made at
Washington and Lee during the current session so
far shows Phi Epsilon Phi fraternity heading the
column with seventy-eight points out of a possible
100.

All fraternities made averages well above the uni-
versity passing mark of sixty points. Kappa Alpha
rose to second place from the twelfth in standing at
the same report last year. Sigma Chi, leader of the
last mid-year report, fell to third. The Arcades
club, a local organization with an average which for
eight years led the University social groups in schol-
arship, fell to fifth place.

Fraternity averages in their order follow: Phi
Epsilon Pi, 78.415; Kappa Alpha, 78.365; Sigma
Chi, 78.092; Alpha Chi Rho, 77.200; Pi Kappa Phi,
76510. Pir Kappa “Psi; 76.220: Bela Paeta Pi,
76.195; Delta Tau Delta, 75.943; Phi Delta Theta,
75.584; Phi Gamma Delta, 75.189; Sigma Alpha
Epsilon, 75.158; Alpha Tau Omega, 75.068; Sigma
Nu, 74.806; Kappa Sigma, 73.845; Pi Kappa Alpha,
737/10: Phi Kappa Sioma, 73.373; Sigma Phi Ep-
silon, 73.288; Lambda Chi Alpha, 73.043; and Zeta
Beta Tau, 72.267. ‘The Arcades club made an aver-
age of 76.825.

STATE COLLEGE ORATORS TO COMPETE
AT EXERCISES TO BE HELD AT WASH.
INGTON AND LEE:

Students from eight Virginia institutions will
meet at Washington and Lee University here May 1,
to compete for the state representative at the dis-
trict oratorical contest to be held in North Carolina
this spring, the winner of which will be sent to the
national oratorical contest at Los Angeles, Calif.

The entire country will be divided into seven dis-
tricts, each of which is entitled to one representative
at the final contest. This representative will be al-
lowed an oration of 1,500 words on any subject per-
taining to the constitution. Delegates will compete
in the finals for a maximum prize of $1,500, with
$400 as the minimum reward to each contestant.

The state eliminations were held here two years
ago. Joseph Clower, of Woodstock, a senior at
Washington and Lee at that time, was the Virginia
representative that year.

12 W. & L. STUDENTS GAIN PHI BETA
KAPPA:

The highest scholastic honor attainable in Amert-

can universities was recently awarded to twelve stu-
dents at Washington and Lee University when they
were elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa, na-
tional honorary scholastic society.

Four of the new members are outstanding in ath-
ietics as well as scholarship. M. R. Kaplan and
W. H. Marshall were members of this year’s wrest-
ling team, of which the former served as captain.
D. C. Eberhart served as a_ backfield man on the
1929 football eleven and H. G. Jahncke was mem-
ber of the swimming team. :

Those elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa
are: M. H. Kaplan, Lomeville, Ky, C, 1. Lewis,
Maxwelton, W. Va. A. M. Harvey, Littie Rock,
Ark., H. G. Jahncke, New Orleans, La., R. E. Clapp,
Frederick, Md., J. BP: lynch, St. Petersburg, Fla.,
J: R. Roberts, Jatksonville, Fla., E. S. Graves,
Lynchburg, Va. D. C. “‘berhart, Daytona Beach,
Fla., W. H. Marshall, Jacksonville, Fla. B. L.
Rawlings, Hinsdale, Ill, A. R. Ammerman, Cynthi-
ant, Ky. 3

4
se

ALUMNI
SECRETARY-COACH:

 

Alumni Secretary Verbon E. Kemp resigned last
July. Freshman Coach Eddie Parks Davis followed,
resigned December 1.

The former alumni secretary had also served as
executive secretary to the president. Why not a
combination alumni secretary and freshman coach?

Thus the trustees of the Alumni Association, off-
cials of the Athletic Association and the University
pondered; thus they elected Harry Killinger Young
to the combination post.

Harry K. “Cy” Young is a name more familiar
to Washington and Lee athletic enthusiasts than that
of any other living alumnus. Famed as an all-round
athlete and “four-letter” man, “Cy” Young was the
only Washington and Lee student to serve as cap-
tain of each of the four major sports, basketball,
baseball, football and track during a four-year col-
lege term.

He entered Washington and Lee in 1913 from
Huntington, W. Va. He graduated in 1917, entered
the Army, married Miss Ruth Neeley of Helena,
Ark. at Lexington; served 18 months overseas as
army sergeant, Evacuation Hospital No. 3; was dis-
charged to return and enter the lumber business at
Helena, Ark.

His college interest in athletics never waned. ‘The
position of freshman coach of the college of Wil-
liam and Mary was tendered him.
1926, produced winning teams,
varsity baseball teams.

He accepted in
coached successful

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE : 19

He was elected alumni secretary and freshman
coach at Washington and Lee last December to take
office June Ist, 1930. Betimes he spoke before the
annual meetings of the alumni at Memphis, Tenn.,
Lynchburg, Va. aad Richmond, Va.

After June 1, Mr. and Mrs. Young and their son
will occupy the secretary’s apartment in the Alumni
Building. “Cy” will receive returning alumni there
during “Finals,” will travel for the University dur-
ing the vacation months, will direct the publication
of Tue Atumnr Macazine, will direct yearling
grid activity during the Fall.

GREETINGS, ALUMNI OF WASHINGTON
AND LEE UNIVERSITY:

The thrill that I derive from every contact with
my alma mater causes me to believe that my work
of Secretary of the Alumni Association will be one
of the greatest pleasures of my life. I love every
brick in every old building, every blade of grass up-
on the campus and, of course, the men are vitally
more important in my memories.

To have a live and moving college, a live and mov-
ing Alumni Association must play its part. Wash-
ington and Lee is particularly fortunate in being able
to make its students “never forget.’ The traditions
are such that only the heart of steel can travel on
and never turn back. Washington and Lee, two
names that cannote patriotism.

Truth and loyalty give our University its first
claim to greatness. Its illustrious sons give it its
second. The founders have done what they could
and passed on. ‘They have thrown us the touch and
we will carry on.

I would like to urge that all old men feel free to
write or come to me and tell me exactly their ideas
upon various matters pertaining to their alma mater.
I may not always concur in these opinions, but |
want, above all else, to cause free expression among
the members of the Association. When people really
know each other, a firm friendship usually follows.
My wife and I hope to make your building so at-
tractive that you will want to come often and stay
long.

Memphis, Tennessee has a powerful personnel in
its two hundred or more alumni and | made it my
business to go up to this thriving metropolis and hold
a meeting directly after Christmas, while visiting in
my old home. A representative group responded and
I believe the nucleus of a powerful chapter was
founded. ,

Today I am leaving for Lynchburg to be present
at a banquet of old men in the hilly city.

So you see my work has already begun and I hope
each month it will be like the snow ball that gathers
impetus as it travels down its course.

Sincerely, HENRY KILLENGER YOUNG.

v

 

H. K. “Cy” Youne, 717
Four Letter—Four Captain

JUDGES:

The Virginia Supreme Court of Appeals recently
suffered many losses by deaths among its able mem-
bership. :

Judge Martin P. Burks, ’70, died last May. Judge
Henry W. Holt, ’82, was appointed to succeed him.
Judge Joseph ‘Glasgow, ’88, of Staunton succeeded
Tudge Holt on the circuit bench.

Another vacancy occurred. Louis F. Eppes, ‘08,
member of the State Corporation Commission and
trustee of Washington and Lee, was appointed to
the State’s highest tribunal.

The Virginia Legislature convened, faced the task
of selecting two judges to fill newly created judge-
ships added to the State Supreme Court. One of the
two chosen was Herbert B. Gregory, B.L., °14, of
Roanoke.

Again death claimed a member of the Court. To
fill the vacancy, the Virginia Legislature confirmed
George L. Browning, B.L., ’98, of Orange, Va. Thus,
of five vacancies on the Virginia Appellate Court dur-
ing the past year, four have been filled by alumni ot
Washington and Lee.

Also called upon to fill an unexpired term on the
Virginia circuit bench the State Legislature appointed
Ben D. Haben, Jr., B.L., ’15, of Fincastle, Va., to
the judgeship in his home circuit.

Meanwnile, President Hoover reviewed possible ap-
pointees to the United States Supreme Court to fill
the vacancy created by the sudden death of Justice

20 , THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Epprzk Davis, 715
Genial, witty personality

E. T. Sanford. Most prominently mentioned by pre-
appointment prognosticators were democrats John
William Davis, B.A., 92, B.L., 95 and Newton Diehl
Baker, B.L., 94, and republican Judge D. Lawrence
Grover, B.L., 92, of Norfolk, Va.

It is likely that many another .graduate from
Tucker Hall has been elevated to the city, county,
state or federal judiciary during the past year. ‘Give
Tur ALUMNI MAGAZINE an opportunity to record
such advancements. °

LOSS:

For fifteen years alumni have been gladdened by
the reception of genial Eddie Parks Davis upon their
return to the campus. He was a Washington and
Lee “character,” the connecting link between college
years and their prodigal return, a landmark by which
to take bearings.

Eddie Davis entered Washington and Lee in 1916
from Charlotte, N. C. He played on various athletic
teams, participated in every phase of campus activity.
He graduated in 1915, returned for frequent visits,
entered the Army, served overseas, returned trium-
phantly for the Victory Reunion at finals, 1919.

Thereafter he was a fixture. He served for four
years as alumni secretary, then as freshman coach.
In both capacities he travelled widely, met and re-
menisced with alumni throughout the country. His
most conspicuous success was with the yearling bas-
keteers. |

But his outstanding service to Washington and
_Lee was not professional, was rendered naturally and
without intention. It was as host, as a genial, witty
personality, as a personification of college memories
that Eddie Parks Davis endeared and served.

During 1927 he married Miss Edith Derbyshire of
Lexington. They have one son.

His resignation as freshman coach was regretfully
accepted by the Athletic Association on December 1,
when he went to Wichita, Texas to accept a position
with the Steves Sash and Door Co., potent ‘Texas

*

lumber and mill supply firm so closely identified in
its personnel with Washington and Lee.
The home fires dim with Eddie’s departure.

ALUMNI ELECTED TO PHI-.BETA KAPPA:

One student and eight alumni were added to the
former list of twelve students at Washington and Lee
University here who were recently elected to mem-
bership in Phi Beta Kappa, national honorary schol-
astic society.

Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines, President of Wake
Forest College and newly elected President of Wash-
ington and Lee University, spoke at the annual din-
ner following the initiation of new members on
April 14.

The local chapter of Phi Beta Kappa was installed
in 1911. Each year degree applicants and alumni
who maintained an exceptional average in scholarship
throughout their entire collegiate course are chosen
for membership. The object of this society is the
recognition of general culture, high character and
thorough scholastic ability.

DeWitt B. Cook, Trenton, N. J., is the newly
elected student member. He is a candidate for a
bachelor of science degree in engineering, and is pres-
ident of the Custis Lee Engineering Society.

Alumni elected to membership in Phi Beta Kappa
are: Colonel W. D. A. Anderson, ’03, Mobile, Ala.,
C, T. Chenery, ’10, New York City, R. A. Lewis, Jr.,
"17, Chicago, Ill., W. R. McCain,.’88, Hartford, Conn.,
ie il. Price, (99, Ricamond, Va, kK, H. Spahr, US,
Flint, Mich., L. T. Wilson, ’87, Annapolis, Md., and
Samuel Young, ’73, New Orleans, La.

Students previously elected are: M. H. Kaplan,
Louisville, Ky., C. I. Lewis, Maxwelton, W. Va., A.
M. Harvey, Little Rock, Ark., H. G. Jahncke, New
cleans, La. R. E. Clapp Nredenck, Md., J. P.
Lynch, St. Petersburg, Fla., J. R. Roberts, Jackson-
ville, Fla., FE. S. Graves, Lynchburg, Va., D. C. Eber-
hart, Daytona Beach, Fila., W. H. Marshall, Jackson-
ville, Fla., B. L. Rawlings, Hinsdale, Ill., and R. C.
Ammerman, Cynthiana, Ky.

HOMECOMING DAY:

Four consecutive years of Homecoming Day cele-
bration has made this annual event a matter of cus-
tom. Lexington was crowded to capacity on Satur-
day, November 16th, when alumni from all over the
country returned to visit Alma Mater and witness the
Washington and Lee-Virginia football game. On the
same day V. M. I. held its annual Homecoming Day,
celebrating the event with a hard-fought game with
the University of Kentucky, at eleven o’clock in the
morning, thus making it possible for the visitors to
witness both games.

 

f\

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

The Alumni Building and nearby fraternity houses
were decorated with the University colors and colors
of the contesting teams. ‘The streets were blocked
with a cheering, happy throng of football enthusiasts.
The weather was perfect. The Alumni Building and
its wide portico and Lawn became the centre of
Washington and Lee activity, with handshaking and
embracing alumni meeting and greeting friends whom
they had not, in many cases, seen since their college
days. Soon the crowd and the din were augmented
by the arrival of Wallace Muir (Captain football
team of 1898) and the Kentucky contingent with their
band.

The Executive Committee of the Washington and
tee Alumni, Incorporated, met and nominated Ran-
dolph Cabell, ’20, of Covington, Virginia, and ‘Thomas
M. Glasgow, °15, for three year terms to succeed re-
tiring trustees, Dan B. Owen, 712, and S. W. Frier-
son, ’00.

Soon Alumni Headquarters were deserted by the
crowd who flocked to witness the defeat of V. M. I.
by Kentucky in an exciting game culminating in a
score of 27-12.

Now the scene shifted back to Headquarters, and
Alumni, their guests and friends were entertained by
the University at a buffet luncheon. The Alumni
Rooms were decorated with pictures of former foot-
ball teams, banners, and yellow and white chrysanthe-
mums, and refreshments were served with Uncle
Dan Owen’s ham as the piece de resistance.

Throngs of spectators began passing on their way
to Wilson Athletic Field and the Alumni Building
was again abandoned.

In a fast, closely-played game the Generals oi
Washington and Lee and the Cavaliers of Virginia
fought back and forth across the field to a 13-13 dead-
lock, for the first tie game between these schools in
the history of this annual classic.

The pass-snagging of Williams, and the running
and plunging of Mattox, Thibodeau and Mitchell
featured for Washington and Lee. Sloan and Thomas
were outstanding in Virginia’s passing and running
attack. Both teams played hard, straight football and
with little fumbling, though penalties were frequent.

Roars of applause, followed by sudden silences or
moans of disappointment from first one side of the
field to the other, indicated the tenseness of interest
with which the game was followed by the spectators
and ex-heroes of other days. ‘The final tie score was
something of an anti-climax to the strain of eager,
expectant, hopeful, watching.

Approximately 6,000 visitors witnessed the game.

Many of the Alumni attended the dance given in
the evening at Doremus Gymnasium, and those whose
urge to excitement was somewhat diminished by the
strenuous day gathered in post-mortem session at the

Alumni Building and topped off the day with the re-
mains of the Luncheon.

Homecoming Day was again justified.

The following Alumni registered at the Alumni
Building on Homecoming Day:

Jesse Tow, ’25,' Mt. Vernon, N. Y.; J. H. Meek,
95, Camden, Ark.; Harry St. G. T. Carmichael, ’99,
Kyrock, Ky.; J. H. Campbell, Jr., °12, Lexington,
Va.; Chas E. Burks, 712, Lynchburg, Va.; Gip Wood-
son, “17, Lynchburg, Va.; J. M. B. Gill, ’05, Peters-
burg, Va.; W. L. Leap, ’23, University, Va.; Homer
A. Holt, ’27, Fayetteville, W. Va.; Omer T. Kaylor,
"11, Hagerstown, Md.; Wm. E. R. Byrne, II, ’28,
Charleston, W. Va.; George Barnes, ’17, New York
City, N. ¥.; T. M. Wade, Jr., 23, Petersburg, Va. ,
W. H. Keister, 94, Harrisonburg, Va.; Van Allan,
‘02, Charlotte, N. C.; R.A. Ruff, 03, Bikhora, VW.
Va.; R. EK. Witt, 06, Lexington, Va.; C. S. McNulty,
02, Roanoke, Va.; Randolph C. Shaw, ’11, Wash-
ington, D. C.; H. W. Wyant, ’13, Harrisonburg, Va. ;
W. L. Pierce, °86, Christiansburg, Va.; A. Dana
Hodgdon, ’11, Washington, D. C.; J. P. Walker, ’05,
Savannah, Ga.; S. N. Hoshour, ’09, Staunton, Va.:
Idwin 'G. Caffrey, 09, East Orange, N. J.; J. Morri-
son Hutcheson, ’02, Richmond, Va.; Robert M. Cur-
tis, “16, Roanoke, Va.; F. C. Bedinger, ’10, Boydton,
Va.; John L. Campbell, 09, Lexington, Va.; F. C.
Switzer, ’24, Harrisonburg, Va.; C. M. Campbell, ’22,
Irvine, Ky.; Henry W. Campbell, ’13, Springfield,
W. Va.; John Bell Towill, ’29, Augusta, Ga.; Thomas
Braxton Bryant, ’28, Orangeburg, S. C.; Blanding
Holman, ’28, Batesburg, S. C.; E. D. Reeves, ’28,
Atlanta, Ga.; E. R. Lane, ’26, Freemont, N. C.; Law-
rence C. Witten, ’10, Cincinnati, Ohio; Jerry A.
Burke, °14, Appomattox, Va.; Paul M. Penick, ’96,
Lexington, Va.; Eric Reeves, ’27, Atlanta, Ga.;
Richard M. Wright, ’27, Alexandria, Va.: J. S.
Hansel, ’17, McDowell, Va.; A. S. Cummings, 714,
Natural Bridge, Va.; W. C. Baxter, ’26, Alexandria,
Va. Atchie” Phelps, “23, Sumter, SiC: Win’ R.
Allen, ’92, Buchanan, Va.; Maurice Moore, ’94,
Lynchburg, Va.; Thos. C. Bowling, ’96, Charles Town,
W. Va.; D. B. Owen, ’12, Doylesville, Va.; R. M.
Cabell, ’20, Covington, Va.; R. P. Cooke, 92, Lex-
ington, Va.; S. G. Hamner, ’98, Lynchburg, Va.;
Jos, “Arthur “Binith, Jy, °27, Monroe 1a,. H p.
Campbell, ’82, Lexington, Va.; R. H. Haden, ’16,
Charlottesville, Va.; J. G. Johnston, “da, Mitra Va-
Graham Sale, ’02, Welch, W. Va.; B. R. Kennedy.
‘23, Washington, D. C.; J. D. Hobbie, Jr., 05, Roan-
oke, Va.; Graham Robinson, ’70, Lexington, Va.;
mA: > McCormde 14. Farmville, Va.; Thos. W.
Gilham, “19, Lynchbure, Va. BE. . K. Lewis, ’27,
Lynchburg, Va.; F. P. Shull, ’26, Lynchburg, Va.;
J. Nevin Kilmer, ’11, Martinsburg, W. Va.: Earle K.
Paxton, 08, Lexington, Va.;: F. P. ‘Guthrie, ’11,

Ze THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Washington, D. C.; Robert Glass, ’08, Lynchburg,
Va.; Giles M. Penick, ’15, Lynchburg, Va.; Lynch
Christian, °16, Lynchburg, Va.; T. S. Kirkpatrick,
14, Lynchburg, Va.; Paul C. Buford, ’13, Roanoke,
Va. © HO Wilson, ’24- Danville, Wai: Carleton: |.
Jewett, ’21, Richmond, Va.; B. H. Turnbull, Rich-
mond, Va.; O.. M. Stumpf, ’18, Richmond, Va.; H.
Waddell, ’93, Lexington, Va.; J. R. Caskie, ‘09,
Lynchburg, Va.; J. S. Grasty, ’04, Charlottesville,
Va.; Henry B. Glass, °15, Lynchburg, Va.; R. B.
Stephenson, ’09, Covington, Va.; F. Li. Sattes, °23,
St. Albans, W. Va.; Joe Hobson, ’20, Prestonsburg,
Ky.

ALUMNI BOARD MEETING:

At the Homecoming day meeting of the W. & L.
Alumni Association, Inc., Trustees Randolph M.
Cabbell, ’20, of Covington, Va., and Thomas M. Glas-
gow, 712, of Charlotte, N. C., were nominated to
membership on their board, subject to the action of
the general alumni body at Finals, 1930. L. C. Witten,
"10, and Ty Rauber, ’27, were nominated for non-
resident membership in the Athletic Association and
C. S. Glasgow, ’11, was nominated for resident mem-
bership. | ee

The Board recommended Herbert Fitzpatrick, °92,
Wade H. Ellis and J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02, to
the attention of the University Board of ‘Trustees
for filling vacancies in that body.

Upon the resignation of Alumni Trustee S. W.
Frierson, ’00, President FE. C. Caffrey, ’09, later ap-
pointed nominee R. M. Cabbell, ’20, to serve until the
general election. ,

FINALS 1930:

Alumni will hold their regular annual meeting post-
poned from Homecoming Day on Monday, June 9,
during commencement. The regular alumni luncheon
will be given by the University at noon. It is ex-
pected that “Uncle Dan’s” famous ham will again
crown the buffet menu and that Uncle Dan and the
Ham Society will hold their regular nightly sessions
throughout the commencement period.

A special gathering of representative alumni and
members of the University Board of Trustees is be-
ing arranged for Monday evening.

The regular schedule of dances will be carried out,

May 30, June 3.

AGAIN—THE SWING:

The following clipping from the New Orleans Times
Picayune, of November 22nd, has been sent to the
Alumni Office by Mr. F. P. Hamilton, ’97.

Oh, for an Inspiration:

We have never wanted to be a song writer until
lately. Now we'd like to be able to write a real good,
fiery football song for Tulane and Georgia. The Tu-
lane band was down in front of the stands and it opened
up with that popular but much overworked song which
is known as various kinds of a “Swing.”

Ta, ta, ta, ta-a, ta-ta, ta, ta! That’s the way it goes,
if you can supply your own music.

A very kindly and nice old lady was being shown to
her seat right up near the press box and, hearing the
song, she said to her escort:

“How nice of them to be playing the Georgia Swing
like that. It shows a fine spirit.”

A little later two men climbed up the tiers and sat
beside the kindly lady and her companion. And just
about that time the Georgia band opened up with the
“Swing.”

‘Ta, ta, ta, 4-0; (ote. ta. ta!

“There they go playing the Sewanee Swing,” said
one of the new arrivals. “You'd think a college like
Georgia would have a song of its own.”

“You don’t know what you’re talking about,” chimed

in a man sitting on the row below who wore an olive.

ribbon, “that’s the Tulane Swing. Where’d you get
that stuff about Sewanee?”

“But it’s the Georgia Swing,” said the companion of
the elderly lady. “I know because I went to Georgia.”

“And I went to Sewanee and I guess i ought to
know what I’m talking about,” hotly shot back the
man who had called it Sewanee’s Swing.

The nice old lady closed up her umbrella and took
a firm hold on it as if expecting trouble. All parties
concerned began glaring at each other so we, arising
with outstretched arm and striking a Henry Clayish at-
titude, said:

“Friends and fellow Southerners, let this argument
cease. You are all wrong. That is Washington and
Lee’s swing, part and parcel.”

“You don't mean to tell me Tulane is playing a
fourth-hand song?” asked the citizen from New Or-
leans. ,

“You may draw your own conclusions as to whether
Tulane uses it second-hand or fourth-hand,”’ we re-
plied. “But it is not first-hand, and you may lay to
that. Georgia and Tulane all use it second, third or
fourth-hand.”

“Well, why doesn’t Tulane get a song of her own?”
came the question.

And that is a question we wish we could answer by
writing a nice little song for the Greenies. Surely
there is a song writer somewhere among the thousands
who have gone to Tulane.

Orange, Texas, November 22, 1920.

Be as I notice from the last University bul-
letin that you are holding down the job as Alumni Sec-

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE, 23

retary, and I thought that you would be interested in
the attached clipping which I cut from the New Or-
leans Times Picayune, of November 22nd.

It is strange how other colleges claim “The Swing”
as their own. Not so bad with high schools, but insti-
tutions of higher education ought to know better.

I, and I expect all Alumni, miss the ALUMNI Maca-
ZINE. I would be interested in knowing who was
elected to fill Mr. Kemp’s place, at the meeting Satur-
day. I think that all of us are indebted to Mr. Kemp
for having issued this interesting and inspirational
MaGaAZzINE for such a long time, but hope that there
will soon be someone to carry on the good work
which he started.

Yours very truly,
(Signed) F. P. Hamirton, 797.

Ft. Worth, Texas, December 3, 1929.
The Editor,
Washington and Lee ALUMNI MacGazINE,
Lexington, Virginia.
Dear Sir:

Due to a little argument arising on this past Thanks-
giving Day, concerning the origin of the Washington
and Lee Swing, I am writing you for some data on
this matter.

About two years ago there appeared in the W. & L.
ALUMNI MAGAZINE, an article on this song, written
by Mr. James R. Caskie of Lynchburg, Virginia. If
you will please look in the back issues of your files and
send same to me I will be grateful for your service. -

This is a three sided argument concerning men from
Sewanee, Tulane, and Alabama.

Hoping that you will comply with this request, I
remain,

Sincerely yours,
(Signed) W. B. Sayers, ’28,

Y. M. C. A. Room 436,
Fort Worth, Texas.

It has also been brought to the attention of the
Alumni Office that Spring Hill College of Mobile,
Alabama “has begun using the ‘Swing’ as the school
anthem, and is connecting the name of the school
with the song.”

History of the Swing:

(The following facts are culled from an article writ-
ten by Mr. James R. Caskie, 06, published in the
ALUMNI MaGAzINneE of June, 1927.)

The Swing is the product of three Washington and
Lee students attending the University at different
times. The air of the chorus originated with Mark W.
Sheaf, 06, who was a Law Student from Watertown,
South Dakota, a natural-born musician. He sang in
the Glee Club and was director of what was then
known as the Mandolin and Guitar Club.

During the session of 1906-’07 he picked out on his
mandolin the air of “The Swing” and taught it to the
men of the Guitar Club, who used it as an encore in
their program. He called it simply “The Swing.”

In the fall of 1907, a committee was appointed to
get up songs for the annual V. P. I. Football game.
The committee posted a notice on the bulletin board
asking that the student-body submit any songs which
they thought proper. At the meeting of the commit-
tee four or five songs were selected. Someone sug-
gested that words be written for “The Swing.” C. A.
Robbins, ‘10, from Brooklyn, N. Y., generally known
as “Tod,” composed the words for the chorus, as they

exist today, with the exception of the somewhat pro-

fane interpolation which is often heard.

The Swing immediately became immensely popular.
It now came to be known as the “Washington and Lee
Swing’ and was adopted as the official athletic song of
the University—merely the chorus part.

Thornton W. Allen, ’10, of Newark, N. J., was a
musical genius. He directed the band, the orchestra,
and was a member of the Glee Club. During his stay
in the University he took hold of “The Swing” and
wrote both the words and music for the verses, fitting
them into the original and established chorus. He then
had the complete “Washington and Lee Swing” copy-
righted for the benefit of the University. ,

The Washington and Lee Swing is probably the
most popular college song in America, and therefore in
the world, has been used by schools and colleges all
over the country, and was, for a time, claimed to have
been originated by both Tulane and Alabama. After
some correspondence and trouble, both Tulane and
Alabama were finallly convinced that they were in-
fringing on a copyright song, and both cheerfully ad-
mitted their error and ceased to use the song under any
other name. Various orchestras throughout the coun-
try use it under its proper name. During the war it
was used as the official marching song of Camp Sher-
man, much to the delight of Washington and Lee men
who were in that camp.

Being entirely the product of the Washington and
Lee students, and of unprecedented popularity as a
college song, the Alumni and students. of Washington
and Lee have a right to be proud of it and to guard it
jealously in its integrity as a Washington and Lee
song.

NEW YORK DINNER:

Dear Sir:

I feel that you would no doubt be glad to receive
some account of the Fifth Annual Fall Dinner of our
New York Alumni. As I happen to have had charge
of the Dinner and all arrangements for it, I feel that it

is more or less part of my job to write you about this

get-together party.

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Dinner was held on November 8 at the Hotel
Lafayette.
dent of our local organization, Mr. John W. Davis, ably
assisted by Vice President, Dr. George Bolling Lee.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker was the speaker ot the eve-
ning. He made a very good impression with his dis-
cussion of the University and its future. I hope that
you will be able to secure from him a synopsis of his
talk to include any write-up of our Dinner which you
may see fit to publish.

We were also entertained by a fellow-alumnus, Mr. |

H. G. Hawn, class of 1884 with a talk and an amusing
anecdote. Mr. Hawn is always willing to chip in and
help us out.

Mr. Walter L. McCorkle, ’78, who is one of our
most enthusiastic alumni, gave a stirring toast to the
University. After which, L. T. Brown, ’18, of Bridge-
port, Conn. (who helps out with the piano), led off
with “The Swing.”

For the coming year we elected officers as pollows:

President, Mr. John P. Fast, 88; Vice-President,
Mr. Joseph T. Lykes, ’09; Sec. and Treas., Mr. James
A. Lee, 17. New members of the Governing Council:
Mr. John W. Davis, 92; Mr. John M. Glenn, ’79; Mr.
David A. Birch, ’27; Mr. Edward W. Lee, ’13.

Following is a list of the men present at the Dinner:
Allen, Thornton W., 10; Alley, Rayford W., ’10; Al-
lison, Jr., George W., 710; Bade, F. E.; Bentley, Jr.,
Robert; Bibb, E. W., ’24; Birch, Dave F.; Bronaugh,
Minor, 97; Brown, Leonard T., 18; Brown, Jr., Mi-
chael, 11; Burton, W. R., °17; Caldwell, W. T.; Cast-
ner, James A.; Chenery, C. T. ’09; Chevalier, Stuart,
(03; Clarke, Jr., E.. S., "28; Cole, Francis f., 718; Col-
lins, Jackson R., °17; Craig, Edward M.; Davis, Hon.
John W., 92; Dold, Dr. William E., 76; Drye, Jr.,
John, ’20; Edmondson, J. H., ’29; Farrar, Jr., William
M., ’16; Flannagan, Dallas, ’88; Foss, Carl A.; Fry,
Dr. S. Oscar; Fulwiler, Jr., Robert A., ’25; Glenn,
Claude 1; Gravely, J.5.> Gnmley; Roy J,
Hawn, Henry G., ’84; Hawthorne, H. R., 710; Hunter,
R. A.; Hyman, William A.; Henderson, Matt. G.;
Jackson, George Preston, *15; Johnson, Reed, ’28;
Judd, Benjamin A., 93; Lee, Edward W., 713; Lee,
Dr. George Bolling; Levitt, Albert; Light, C. P.;
Lykes, Joseph T., 09; MacCorkle, D. S.; McCain, C.
H., 20; McCorkle, Walter L., 78; McGavack, Henry
iy los McKnem, W. C.,° 24; MeNit, Dr. ©. W:;
Mandak, Nicholas, ’23; Moran, H. E., 714; Mueller,
George S., ’20; Myers, Wentworth F., ’20; Perkins,
W.R., 97; Pickus, Albert M., ’2144; Poindexter, E. W.,
23; Powell, J. L., 714; Quarles, EF. A., 98; Reeves,
Judge Francis T., 02; Ripy, Marion W., 96; St. John,
fH 18, 25: Shaltz, @ .B.. Sloan, De) T. D.- Smne

Raymond; Stone, D. Remington; Spady, Edgar J.;

Tyrrel, Randolph E., ’19; Tyree, Lewis; Vinson, E.

B., 723; Walters, T. Carlton, ’27; Bullock, Leigh; Cop-

It was presided over by the retiring presi- -

per, J. B., 28; Funkhouser, H. Gray; Johnston, H. P,,
‘295 tee, ee ie oe

The current year’s Dinner seems to have been the
most successful one held by us. We had at least as
large an attendance as has ever turned out for one of
our affairs and everyone seemed to enjoy himself.

Judge McDermott was especially invited to attend but
as he had a very important previous engagement, he
found himself unable to join us.

I am also sending herewith several letters which I
received which may be of some use to you.

Wishing you the best of luck with your efforts and
hoping that the facts that I haye given you will be of
some use in connection with the ALUMNI MAGAZINE,
ft am,

Yours sincerely,

~ Epwarp W. Leg, 713

NEW YORK LUNCHEONS:

The December luncheon of the New York Associ-
ation of W. & L. alumni was held at the Planters Res-
taurant, at 124 Greenwich St., N. Y., on December 4.
This luncheon is usually held the first Wednesday of
each month, at the Planters Restaurant. So far, they
have been very successful with many new alumni as
well as our old faithfuls who have been standing. by
for years. I am enclosing a list of names of those pres-
ent at the last luncheon, hoping you will publish in the
Alumni News publication. Would appreciate any
change of New York addresses.

Yours very truly,
(Signed) Davin L. Brrcu,
Chairman Luncheon Committee.

Those present were: Morris G. Welch, ’21; T. Gra-
ham Gibson, ’29; E. S. Clarke, Jr., ’28; Jas. F. Tanne-
mill, “29; Frank C. Adams; 28; Robt. B. Lee, 729:
G. Carlton Waters, ’27; C. P. Light, ’11; Emmett W.
Poindexter, *23; H. R. Hawthorne, ’24; Raymond
smith, ’22; W. M. Farrar, Jr., 718; Herald Dobbs, ’28;
8. A. Wurzberger, ’28; David L. Birch, '26; Ebb Lee,
13; EH. T. Quarles, 97; Earl W. Bibb, ’24; James A.
Lee, °17; Watt G. Henderson, ’22; Rand. E. Tyrrel,
2 M. R. Burton, 717; E. B. Vinson, ’23; M. Spector,
25; R. H. Fulwiler, ir ‘293 Je ee Collins, 717.

February 5, 1930.
Dear Cy:

The New York alumni held their regular monthly
luncheon February 5, 1930, at the Planters Restaurant.
The following attended: |

E. W. Poindexter, ’23; E. A Quarles, 97: W. F.
Myers, ’20; L. R. Henry, ’25; H. D. St. John, ’25; E;
W. Bibb, 24; W. R. Burton, ’17; R. E. Tyrrel, ’18;
T. E. Bade, 23; E. S. Clarke, Jr., 28; W. B. Lott, ’29:
A. QO. Halsey, Jr., "28; J. A. Ruckee, Jr., ’28; W. M

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

Farrar, Jr., 15; J. A. Lee, °17; W. T. Caldwell, ’22:
J. H. Edmondson, ’29; Allen Harris, Jr., ’27; E. W.
Lee, 13; Van A. Holloman, ’28; R. B. Lee, ’29.
Best regards and good luck to you in your new po-
sitions.
Very truly yours,
James A, LEE.

CY YOUNG SPEAKER, ANNUAL MEETING
OF RICHMOND ALUMNI:

Harry K. (Cy) Young, William and Mary College
freshman coach, who will assume the duties of alumni
secretary and freshman coach at Washington and Lee
University next fall, was the principal speaker last
night at the annual banquet of the Washington and
Lee club, of Richmond, in Rueger’s hotel.

Dr. A. A. Houser was elected president of the club
for the coming year. Other officers elected were O.
M. Stumpf, vice-president, and Joseph E. Birney. sec-
retary-treasurer.

Members of the board of trustees of the institution
present at the meeting of the alumni club last night in-

cluded Judge Louis S. Epes, of the Supreme Court;

George C. Peery, member of the State Corporation
Commission, and Dr. W. L. Carson, of Richmond.

AT LOUISVILLE:

Dear Sir:

The Washington and Lee Alumni Association of
Kentucky, on January 20, 1930, appropriately cele-
brated Founders’ Day, with a meeting and banquet at
the headquarters of the University Club, at the Brown
Hotel, Louisville, Kentucky.

The meeting was opened and presided over by the
Hon. Robert P. Hobson, President, who also delivered
a very interesting address to the assembled Alumni
upon general matters of interest, concerning not only
the Alumni organization but relative, as well, to the
welfare of Alma Mater.

Grier R. Smiley held the interest and attention of
everyone present, in another address, in which he de-
scribed, as nobody else can, things which happened
while he was in school at Washington and Lee. We
might pause to remark that we have never seen an

alumnus from Washington and Lee who did not en-

joy some highly interesting, if somewhat rather har-
rowing experiences, during his sojourn in that insti-
tution of learning and culture. Mr. Smiley, also, en-
joyed the signal honor of being the oldest alumnus
present. |
Tribute was paid the late Judge Robert Gordon,
whose presence and counsel have been of great assist-
ance and inspiration to the association in its work.
The judges and attorneys also, of the Louisville Bar,
paused in joint session last Saturday to commemorate

the life and work of the great alumnus and jurist. A
painting of the late Judge Gordon was received and
hung in the Chamber, that those who henceforth enter
there may be inspired to administer justly, as he al-
ways so earnestly sought to do.

The meeting, thereafter, resolved itself into an open
discussion of ways and means of interesting high
school students, so that the proper quota of graduates
from the high schools of Louisville, as well as the
other cities.in Kentucky, may be matriculated at Wash-
ington and Lee. It was suggested, as a practical means
to this end, that talks be made to high school clubs,
and it was reported that this had been tried with good
results, in one instance, by Horace Barker.

A motion was made, which motion unanimously car-
ried, that President Hobson appoint a committee to
arrange for, and to make talks to high school clubs,
after which the meeting was adjourned.

Everyone thoroughly enjoyed the program and. ban-
quet, and great enthusiasm was evident over the pros-
pects for sending an increasing number of high school
graduates in and around Louisville to matriculate at
Washington and Lee within the next one, two, and

three years.

The following alumni were present: George E.
Burks, Chalmers Caudill, George Oldham Clark, Rob-
ert P. Hobson, Joe Kaplan, Muriel Klein, Wathen R.
Knebelkamp, Willett McGruder, Claggett Offutt, H.
Edward Rietze, Greenberry Simmons, Grier R. Smiley,

R. M. Strassel, William N. Willis.

Yours very truly,
GREENBERRY SIMMONS.

AT MEMPHIS:

. January 6, 1930.
Dear Miss Barclay:

You will be interested to know that the Memphis
Alumni Chapter of our University Club heid an in-
formal reception in this city on Sunday, December
29th, in honor of Cy Young, our new Alumni Secre-
lary.

At this meeting, the Memphis Alumni Chapter
was also reorganized, and the following men were
elected as officers for the coming year: Maynard
Holt, ’25, President; J. T. Morgan, ’01, Vice-Presi-

dent; J. S. Edmondson, 19, Secretary-Treasurer.

It was decided that we would observe Founders’
Day on January 19th, in honor of General Robert E.
Lee. We are planning a “rousing reception” for this
meeting. We are also planning to have one of our mem-
bers visit each one of the Preparatory Schools of this’
city, before June Ist, and see what kind of material
they have to send to Washington & Lee during the
coming - fall.

I would appreciate your sending me a revised list
of all the Alumni in Memphis and vicinity, so we

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

can try to get in personal touch with each one and
have their presence at our Founders’ Day on January
19th. |

We have invited Hon. Newton Baker to be our
speaker for the evening, and are hopeful that he wil
be able to accept our invitation.

With best wishes to all of you, I am,

Sincerely, J. S. EpmMonpson

January 21, 1930.
Dear Miss Barclay:

You will be interested to know that the Memphis
Alumni Association of Washington & Lee University
had a very enthusiastic meeting at the University
Club in this city on last evening, January 20th, in
honor of Robert E. Lee.

We had twenty-two present, as well as_ several

prospective students for Washington & Lee; those —

present were: J. I. Morgan, Maynard Holt, W. Gage
Boyd, Jno. R. Coate, B. N. Buford, Dr. S. L. Raines,
Eastman ‘Gage, John Faison, George Faison, Henry
Jones, Milledge Naill, J. D. Fulton, Thomas C. Horn,
Cooper Turner, Robert W. Pharr, Crittenden Currie,
John K. Speed, Buster Clark, William Holt, Judge
F. H. Heiskel and J. S. Edmondson.

Judge F. H. Heiskell, of our Tennessee Court of
Appeals, was the speaker of the evening, and re-
called the fact that he was a student at Washington
and Lee when Robert E. Lee was President. He
gave us many of Lee’s personal characteristics which
he observed while there. Short talks were aiso made
by John R. Coates and John K. Speed.

In addition to the social feature of our meeting,
several committees were appointed to visit the vari-
ous high and preparatory schools in this county,
seeking good material for Washington & Lee next
September. We are hopeful of being able to surpass
the large quota that Memphis and vicinity have been
sending to our school during the last decade.

We were very much interested to learn of Dr.
Tucker’s appointment to the Presidency of our Uni-
versity, and the fact that our various teams had
started a successful year. :

With our best wishes to every one, we are

Yours very truly,
Memphis Alumni Association
Washington and Lee University
By J. S. EpmMonpson
Secretary and Treasurer

THOMAS SHANKS McPHEETERS, 1872-773:

By JAMES R. WINCHESTER,

Iattle Rock, Ark.

Washington and Lee University has sent forth
many noble alumni; but I question whether any

 

alumnus stands out in his life’s work, from the view-
point of practical religion, superior to “Tom” Mc-
Pheeters. He was held in highest esteem by the pro-
fessors of his alma mater, and the citizens of Lex-
ington who knew him; and he ranked among _ the
most popular students on the campus, as well as in
the classroom. Because of his fondness for pie, our
“boss dessert’’ at the University Hotel, he earned the
sobriquet “Pie-eater.” He was one of my very close
friends, as were his brother, William M. McPheeters
and cousin, Frank T. Glasgow, who married the
sister, Miss Grace McPheeters. ‘Tom and I prepared
together for our final examination in senior Latin.
The memory of the difficult work we had in our study
of Juvenal is then or was, the hardest book to master
in our course of Latin. He seemed to have an in-
tuitive insight into the author’s meaning, while I had
to get light upon the obscure passages from a good
Finglish translation. In other words, I was compelled
to “ride the pony” as he went comfortably on foot.
We had many things in common, apart from our
studies. In the delightful social life of f,exington
we often met. In 1898 I was called to take charge
of a parish in Saint Louis. ‘There my dear, reliable
friend and I got closely together. I realized that
there is nothing like college ties as time goes on. [
had visited “Tom” before in his hospitable home.
During my ministry in St. Louis he, knowing the
prominent men in the city, David Francis, Henry
Kent and others, saw that I knew them. He was
recognized as one of the best religious workers. Al-
though an ardent Presbyterian and I am Episcopalian,
he took a lively interest in my ministry.

Largely through his personal effort, the first splen-
did Y. M. C. A. building was built. Jew and Gen-
tile responded to his popular appeal in its behalf. He
and I had been active members of the association in
our college days, before the absorption of all the
branches of the Y. M. C. A. were taken into the na-
tional body. We both felt that we owed much to its
helpful influence upon our student life at Washington

and Lee. Except for ‘“T’om” there would have been .

a long delay in securing the splendid building that
has helped St. Louis beyond words to express.

I found him with a Bible class in St. Louis, having
over 100 members, men and women, who took the
deepest interest in his instruction, recognizing in him
a spiritual teacher. He stood as “the righthand man”
of his devoted pastor, Dr. John F. Cannon. He had
a very sensible way of turning off questions in his
class, when the answer needed care. He would say
“let us take that up next Sunday.” He thus disposed
of irrelevant discussions and lost no time in his im-
portant lesson of the day. Buble class teachers can
profit by his example. By so acting, the mind of the
class is kept from perplexing interruptions and held

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ; 27

to spiritual things. His men and women learned to
know there was “no beating around the bush” with
their teacher. He was also active in social work, such
as visiting the convicts in the penitentiary. There
was a noted criminal, known as “Val Burke,’ who
came under his helpful instruction. “Val” under-
went genuine conversion, and through God’s mercy,
got his release in response to faith and patience. It
was “Tom’s” habit to tell the prisoners to pray to
God “to clean them out rather than to ask men and
women (as I have found is their constant cry,) to
get them out.” Val Burke, through Christian co-op-
eration, secured a business position and so rose into
the confidence of his employers that one day he
walked into Tom’s office and said with grateful heart,
“Who would have ever thought that $30,000 would
be placed in my hand to deposit in the bank?” Dwight
Moody, the great FE;vangelist, was a personal friend
of Tom. Hearing of this, he agreed with others that
the photograph of Val Burke should be removed
from the “Rogues Gallery.” It was done. I saw that
photo and written on the back were the words “He
raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up
the beggar—to set them among princes, and to make
them inherit the throne of glory.” When Val Burke
died in St. Louis, his funeral was largely attended;
and among those attending were many of the best
citizens. :

I was once preaching in the slums to “the downs
and outs” and related the story of Val Burke. In
the very midst of my sermon a “hobo” suddenly rose
to his feet. I feared he was going to fault me; but
he said “every word you say is true, I knew him.”
My veracity was established and a spiritual atmos-
phere enveloped the audience. The caretaker told
me that he had never seen a more remarkable meet-
ing, where a deeply religious impression pervaded
the audience. My words were filled with the spirit
of Tom McPheeters. He preached through me.

There was a keen sense of humor, as well as
sympathy, in our friend. As an illustration let me
give a simple story. He was devoted to his wife’s
mother. One day she was leaving St. Louis, and
the time for the departure of the train had nearly
arrived. Her trunk had not been checked. It was
currently reported, and I do not doubt it, that he
found a long line of passengers in front of him,
trying to check their baggage. He, in his cheery
manner, held up the ticket and said, “Gentlemen, un-
less I can get my mother-in-law’s trunk checked she
cannot get off on this train.” Someone called out
“let the gentleman get the trunk checked,” and the
long line gave way with appreciation of the fun. The
mother-in-law enjoyed the joke.

I recall asking him, if some man was a Christian,
he replied with a twinkle, “I do not know, he is an

Episcopalian.” It was a comment that might be ap-
plied to many people in all the churches. If all were
real Christians the World would soon be brought
to our Lord and be saved. ‘There was no doubt
about “Tom. being a Christian, although he was a
Presbyterian.

Mrs. Winchester and I have’ delightful recollec-
tions of his hospitality and of his wife’s helpfulness
in all he did. He left one son, and he has the blessed
assurance, “A good name is rather to be chosen than
great riches.” :

'Tom’s brother, Rev. Wm. Marcellus McPheeters,
D.D., a prominent Presbyterian Minister, was 1
member of my fraternity, the D. K. E., at Washing-
ton and Lee University. I rejoice at his glorious
work in bringing many souls to a knowledge of
their Saviour; but in my judgment, the work of
Tom, the layman, has equalled that of the clergy-
man. “Nobile pars Fratrum.” ‘Monumentum aere
perennius.”’

(Signed) JAMES R. WINCHESTER.

BURKS PORTRAIT UNVEILED:

The chief justice and associate justice of the supreme
court of appeals of Virginia unveiled a portrait of
the late Judge Martin P. Burks, a former member
of the court, Monday, March 10. :

The portrait of Judge Burks was presented to the
court of appeals by his son, M. P. Burks, Jr., of the
Roanoke bar, and was unveiled by Miss Dolly Burks,
who is the young granddaughter of the distinguished
Virginia judge who is to be thus honored.

The portrait was accepted by Chief Justice Rob-
ert R. Prentis, speaking on behalf of the court.

WILLIAM M. McELWEE, °77, CREATES
TRUST FUND FOR JACKSON HOS-
PITAL:

A trust agreement went on record in Rockbridge
county clerk’s office making the Mary Custis Lee
Chapter, Daughters of the Confederacy, the benefi-
ciary of a $25,500 trust fund for their use at Jack-
son Memorial Hospital, Lexington. The fund was
created by William M. McElwee in memory of the
late Mrs. McElwee, and is known as the “Fannie
Symington McElwee Memorial.

Mr. McElwee in creating the trust consulted hos-
pital authorities and doctors as to the hospital’s
greatest need, and the fund was established to equip
and maintain a laboratory at the hospital. Here re-
search work and chemical and microscopic examinations
will be carried out in the diagnosis of cases. Here-
tofore, blood specimens had to be sent to Richmond
to be tested for a diagnosis, but after the laboratory
is established, this may be done here without any

 

28 THE ALUMNI ACE

delay. The establishment of the laboratory will
make the hospital a Class A institution.

The trust created in the agreement is perpetual,
with the Peoples National Bank of Lexington as
trustee. It provides that $500.00 of the principal
may be expended at once to equip the laboratory,
the balance of equipment, if possible, to come out of
the income. If this is found impracticable, then as
much as $4,500 more may be used from the corpus,
leaving $20,500 in the principal of the fund.

The income from the fund is to maintain the
equipment and furnish compensation for the techni-
cian of the laboratory. In the event that the need
for the laboratory ever ends, the income is to be
used for some permanent object in the charity work
of the hospital. It is also provided that if the in-
come is more than sufficient to keep up the labora-
tory, any surplus is to go toward paying the ex-
penses of charity patients in the hospital.

W. D. A. ANDERSON, ’02, AT MOBILE:

The Mobile, Alabama, Register of Sunday, Jan-
uary 19, contains a picture of Col. W. D. A. Ander-
son, ’02, son of Hon. Wm. A. Anderson, ’67, of
Lexington, and an account of the progress of the
work of the port during his administration. It has
the following to say about him:

Who did this work and how? All the harbor im-
provements have been made under the direction of
United States army engineers, the last of whom to
be in charge here is the incumbent, Col. W. D. A.
Anderson, born in Lexington, Va., January 6, 1881;
educated at Washington and Lee University and the
West Point Military Academy, where he graduated
June, 1904, second in a class of 123 members, and
was commissioned second lieutenant of engineers. In
1906 he was commissioned first heutenant, 1912 be-
came captain, and was commissioned major in 1916
and lieutenant colonel December 21, 1927.

Col. Anderson has had extensive engineering ex-
perience before coming to Mobile. He was in
charge of compilation of the military maps of Cuba
during the second American occupation of the island
in 1907-8; the next four years was instructor in
civil engineering and military art and instructor of
military engineering at West Point; 1912-14 was in-
structor of engineering troops of the national guard
of New York, Ohio and Pennsylvania; 1914-15 in
charge of streets, roads and survey of the District
of Columbia; 1915-18 on duty in Panama in charge
of roads, trails, military mapping and fortification
construction in the Canal Zone; 1919 district engi-
neer, Montgomery, Ala., in charge of river and har-
bor improvements and _ fortification construction;
1920-21 instructor at the general service schools.
Fort Leavenworth, Kansas; 1921-22 consulting en-

 

gineer with the New York Transit commission;
1922-24 commanding twenty-first regiment of en-
gineers, Fort Sam Houston; 1924-28 assistant com-
mandant and commandant of the U. 5S. engineer
school at Fort Humphreys, Va.

In July, 1928, Col. Anderson was appointed U. 5.
district engineer at Mobile. He is aided in his work
by a corps of assistants and has taken a sympathetic
attitude towards the various projects advocated by
the civic associations of the community.

His recommendation for a basin 2,000 feet by
100 feet, with a depth of 30 feet at the quarantine
station has been approved by the secretary of war
with the proviso that the health service provide cer-
tain mooring facilities. Twenty-two thousand dol-
lars has been allotted for this work with an annual
appropriation of $8,000 for its maintenance.

In his last annual report Col. Anderson enumer-
ated all the port facilities and said the effect of the
harbor improvements is to make transportation eas-
ier and better; to give Mobile a reduction in rail
rates from interior points; to reduce insurance and
treight rates by admitting a larger and better class
of steamers.

GRIER RALSTON SMILEY, ’02:

Grier Ralston Smiley, 02, Chief Engineer of Con-
struction of the Louisville and Nashville Railroad, has
direct supervision of construction work on the new
railroad now being built through the Cumberland
Mountains of southwestern Kentucky. ‘This road will
provide an outlet from the Kentucky coal fields to the
Atlantic Coast Line Railroad and the South Atlantic
Seaboard. The new branch runs from Chevrolet, Ky.,
to Hagans, Va., and will provide a short cut to the
south and east from the Harlan coal fields.

Mr. Smiley holds the degrees of A.B. and B.S. from
Washington and Lee University.

WAR SERVICES OF L. J. DESHA, ’06, RE-
CALLED:

Captain Lucius Desha, now professor of chemis-
try at Washington and Lee, is prominently mentioned
in a new book, “Our Secret War,” by Thomas John-
son, which was recently received by the University li-
brary.

Captain Desha was in charge of the “Secret Ink
Base,” where every letter addressed to the American
expeditionary forces was examined during the World
War.

The book tells of an incident when Captain Desha
discovered a message written in lemon juice by a Ger-
man Spy between the lines of a letter.

During the six months when Captain Desha was in
charge of this inspection, over 200,000 letters were ex-

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

amined. ‘Three were discovered to have been written
in secret ink of various kinds. One of Captain
Desha’s most prized relics is the shirt collar of a spy,
containing a secret writing substance which could be
made into ink by soaking the collar in water.

ALUMNUS AVIATES TO ARGENTINE:

Lieutenant Clement McMullen, army air pilot, and
graduate of Washington and Lee University in the class
of 1911, completed a New York to Buenos Aires flight
Tuesday afternoon, February 25.

McMullen, with Lieutenant William W. White, an-
other army flyer, embarked to Buenos Aires to demon-
strate the nearness of centers of commerce in North
and South America. This trip, which requires twenty-
one days by ship, took five days by air. ,

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, acting president of Washing-
ton and Lee University, wired the following message to
lieutenant McMullen.

“Washington and Lee University, your alma mater,
has watched with pride the account of your New York
to Buenos Aires flight. Please accept our congratula-
tions upon your enterprise and ability and upon the sig-
nificant success of your and Lieutenant White’s
achievement.” |

D. W. THORNBURG, ’12:

Has been appointed Assistant State Highway En-
gineer, of New Mexico.

Mr. Thornburg’s promotion comes as a reward for
long and efficient service. Coming to New Mexico
and to employment in the Department as draftsman
October 12, 1920, his advancement has been constant
and. consistent, culminating in his elevation to the
place of Assistant just nine years to a day from
the date of his first employment. He has held suc-
cessively the positions of draftsman, designer, squad
boss, assistant chief draftsman, chief draftsman, en-
gineer of plans, and finally assistant state highway en-
gineer. | .

A graduate of Washington and Lee University in
Civil Engineering, Class of 1917, Mr. Thornburg’s
first work as an engineer was in highway construction
in West Virginia. When war was declared with Ger-
many, he enlisted as cadet in the air service, became
a pilot, and was discharged in 1919 as Second Lieu-
tenant. The rest of his engineering career is well
known in New Mexico where he has been since that
time.

“SHORTY” HARRIS, ’15, SENATOR?

Much interest centers around the announcement of
Solicitor Leon W. Harris, of Anderson, S. C., that he
will be a candidate for United States Senate in the
approaching primary. :

 

 

 

 

Lrton W. Harris, 715
Out for Blease’s Seat

Mr. Harris has served as Solicitor of the Tenth
Judicial Circuit since 1920, when he was elected to
that office by a flattering majority. In 1924 and 1928
he was re-elected to that office by substantial majori-
ties, and during his term of office has tried some of
the outstanding cases in the annals of criminal courts
of South Carolina.

Solicitor Harris is a graduate of Washington and
Lee University, and after his eraduation, served as
secretary to the late United States Senator Benjamin
Ryan Tillman. During the World War he served in
the Expeditionary forces oversees, and was on board
the transport American when it sank. —

Mr. Harris is a member of the American Legion,
Forty and Eight, is an officer in the reserve corps of
the U. 8. Army and a Mason, Shriner, and a member
of the Junior Order and Redmen, and has taken an
active interest in Legion and fraternal affairs. He is
a member of St. John’s Methodist Church, of this
city, where he is one of its leaders.

Solicitor Harris is 39 years old, and as solicitor has
made an enviable record. “His circuit includes An-
derson and Oconee counties. His entry into state
politics will be received with cordial interest in every
section of the state. He will contend for the seat in
the United States Senate now held by Senator Cole
L. Blease.

W. J. COX, 718, AWARDED MEDAL:

The Collingwood prize for juniors, a gold medal
given annually for the best paper on civil engineering,
was recently awarded to William J. Cox, of Balti-
more, graduate of Washington and Lee in 1918, and
at present, assistant professor of engineering at Yale
University.

Mr. Cox wrote on “Automobile Hazard in Cities

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE )

and Its Reduction,’ revised and enlarged the paper
and presented it as a thesis for the civil engineering
degree at Washington and Lee. He holds the bache-
lor of arts and bachelor of science degrees. He was a
member of Phi Gamma Delta social fraternity, Phi
Beta Kappa national scholastic fraternity, Omicron
Delta Kappa, national leadership fraternity. He served
as a civil engineer at Leesburg, Va., for several years
before going to Yale.

BEAU BRUMMEL:

The Chicago Daily News of February 14 carried
two photographs entitled as follows:

At left—Orton B. Motter, Chicago’s Beau Brum-
mel, wearing fullskirted opera cape, collapsible opera
hat and other regalia which he declares is smartest
thing in men’s fashions. At right he is wearing
formal day attire patterned after the English walking
suit. It consists of a gray cheviot coat piped with
satin, rough finished homespun trousers with striped
effect, Ascot tie and gray tophat.

“Every man can increase his earning capacity at
least 20 per cent if he will pay more attention to the
care and selection of his apparel.”

That’s the contention of Orton B. Motter, Chicago’s
Beau Brummel, whose firm of industrial style coun-
selors and mén’s wear advertisers consult with lead-
ing textile and apparel manufacturers on their prob-
lems.

“There is more truth than fiction in the ‘dressup
and be successful’ idea,” declares Mr. Motter. “If
-men would pay as much attention to making an in-
vestment in personal appearance as they do in stocks
and bonds, they would draw greater dividends.” —

He appeared at the National Association of Retail
Clothiers and Furnishers’ convention at the Stevens
hotel this week in the attire in which he is shown
above. ;

“Tony” Motter entered Washington and Lee in
1925 after receiving his B.A. from Beloit College,
Wis. He studied in the School of Commerce for a
year and entered: the Law School for a term.

CHICK:

Charles Eigelbach, a graduate in Electrical Engi-
neering, Washington and Lee University, class of
1928, and varsity basketball forward ’27 and ’28 is a
regular on this year’s undefeated Edison Club bas-
ketball team.

The Edison Club basketball team is composed of a
number of former college stars who are employed by
the General Electric Company in its various student
training courses and departments at Schenectady, N.
Y. The club is a member of the A. A. U. and plays
strictly intercollegiate rules.

“Chick,” a three letter man at college, earning his

 

CHARLES EIGELBACH
Baskets for G. E.

letter in football, track, and basketball, and is this
year’s captain of the Edison Club quintet. Last year,
he played a stellar game at forward but has been
shifted to a running guard position where he has dis-
played a canny eye for the basket as well as doing
some mighty fine guarding.

“Chick” is employed in the A. C. Design Engineer-
ing Department of the General Electric Company un-
der the Departmental Plan.

LIEUTENANT J.S. LETCHER, ’26, CITED
FOR GALLANTRY:

Second Lieutenant J. Seymour Letcher, United
States marines, of Lexington, in a department order
made public recently, was given the Navy cross for
gallantry while serving with the marines in Nicaragua.
Lieutenant Letcher went to Washington to receive the
medal. He is now stationed at Norfolk.

Lieutenant Letcher entered the marines in the fall
of 1927, training at Philadelphia. He was ordered
to Nicaragua in March of 1928 and served with the
marines there in the Sandino revolution for eighteen
months as second lieutenant, returning last October.
While there he participated in two battles with the
revolutionists, both fought in woodlands and with a
loss of marines killed. Lieutenant Letcher is a son
of Captain and Mrs. Greenlee D. Letcher, ’88 of Lex-
ington, and a graduate of the Virginia Military Tn-
stitute and the Washington and Lee law school.

FROM SIDNEY D. McCORMICK:

Bourbon, Missouri, March 6, 1930.
To Washington and Lee Alumni or their Repre-
sentatives :
Dear Friends:

I am seriously at work writing my Memories of
General Lee. This work I begun ten years ago, but
finding that Professor Riley was publishing a work
of similar nature, I laid my task aside. In the mean-
time many of my old associates had sent their appre-
ciations to me, and I feel it were sacrilege on my part
to let them be lost.

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

In the spirit I urge you to send your estimate of
General Lee and his influence upon your life, or that
of our Country. Make it racy and interesting. One
of our boys (80 years) writes, “that even now he
would like to aid in taking a cow to the second floor
of the college and leave it there in a professor’s room
for the Janitor to wrestle with.’ Another, I learn

has led the German for 20 years the opening night at

Richmond.

Think it over. As we old fellows age, we become
reminiscent and these long-ago memories come back
to cheer and console us. I regard such testimony as
an asset which our posterity will appreciate and fu-
ture generations esteem. If you regard this request
as a personal duty, do not defer; and remember that
each of us, as octogenarians, owes a debt of gratitude
to God for a long life, which obligation I hope, each
may discharge, ere life’s messengers come with a
writ of ouster. At any rate let us laugh together be-
fore we die and mock savants who would shelve us as
moribund at fifty.

Yours most sincerely,
SipngEY D. McCormick.

FROM C. H. PATTERSON, 719:

A recent letter from C. H. Patterson, °19, former
“Y” Secretary at W. and L. relates the following ex-
periences upon his return to his Mission Station at
Hsuchowfu, Kiangsu, China:

Dear Friends:

The first time I rode the bus to Sutsien I sat on a
roll of bedding which tended to absorb some of the
shocks of the two back springs and back axle to sup-
port the weight. On the way back I sat on the wooden
seat with a fellow passenger’s legs in my lap. The
next time I went I bethought me of an air cushion
which we had used and treasured for several years.
I got on the bus with the elated feeling which one
has when one wins a victory over some of the dis-
comforts of travel in this land. I blew it up and sat
with proud superiority beaming from my face as I
saw the other sufferers wince and grab for support.
However, my elevation was short lived. An unno-
ticed nail protruding up from the seat had fatally
punctured my cushion. The rest of the day I spent
avoiding that nail.

During the middle of October for various reasons
my new motorcycle went bad and I knew that I would
have to have some piston rings before it could be re-
paired efficiently. I wrote to our purchasing agent
in Shanghai to buy some from the agency there. They
have not come yet. My motorcycle is still parked in
one of our country chapels. The last time we sent a
motorcycle engine to Shanghai for repairs they put
sawed off segments of an iron pipe in for piston rings.
I suppose this is the reason that they do not find it

necessary to keep piston rings in stock. A job lot of
old pipe ends are much cheaper and can be fitted to
almost any engine with a little ingenuity, and then the
owner never looks inside his engine anyhow unless it
be some fool missionary who has to do his own re-
pairs.

The freight which we sent from Lexington to
Shanghai via Norfolk and Panama took forty-five
days. To get it here from Shanghai, a distance of
four hundred miles, with China’s best and most effi-
cient railroads as carrier and the Chinese Railroad
Express as supervisor, it took forty days and much
letter writing.

I went up town to the only hardware store to buy
some small stove bolts for use on my bicycle. I fi-
nally found just what I was looking for and had the
price argued to our mutual satisfaction when I was
informed that they only had the bolts for sale and
that the nuts came separately and would have to be
paid for separately. 1 started to argue on the price
of nuts when | was informed that they were out of
nuts and that if I would come back in a few weeks
they would try and have some. I decided I could
save time by ordering direct from Montgomery Ward
in Chicago.

Last month a group of us came back from Presby-
tery on a train which is supposed to be a daily, but
which runs only every other day when it runs at all.
It is an eighty mile run and it took us fourteen hours.
The engine headlight had long since been broken off,
and we arrived here at eleven P. M. with an oil lan-
tern for our headlight. Of course there was no light
in the passenger coaches. We had brought a lantern
with us to avoid this inconvenience.

C. H. Parrerson.

e

NEWS BRIEFS

Honored:

Duncan Campbell Lyle, ’69, “grand old man” of
McDonogh School, Baltimore, Md., at the Founders
Day exercises at McDonogh School Saturday, No-
vember 23, by the dedication of Lyle Memorial Dor-
mitory, erected by grateful alumni of that school in
his honor.

Elected:

Coach William C. Raftery, 15 of the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute as president of the Association of
Southern Coaches. and Athletic Directors at their an-
nual meeting at Baton Rouge, La. He will act for
the coming year. Raftery has turned out a. state
championship football team at V. M. I. for the past
two years. He succeeds Dan McGugin, of Vander-
bilt, as head of the association. Professor Forrest

 

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE)

Fletcher represented Washington and Lee at the
meeting at Baton Rouge.

Resigned:

Professor Roscoe Brabizon Ellard, Professor of
journalism at Washington and Lee, to enter the
journalism faculty at the University of Missouri, ef-
fective at the close of the present session.

Appointed:

Acting President Robert H. Tucker to represent
Virginia at the sessions of the American Academy of
Political and Social Science, with four other Virginia
representatives. Dr. Tucker attended the sessions at

Philadelphia, March 7 and 8.

Declined:

The presidency of the Presbyterian Assembly
Training School at Richmond by Dr. Samuel Mc-
Pheeters Glasgow, ’04, of Knoxville, Tenn.

Injured:

Dr. Hugh M. Blain, ’98, from a fall on the streets
of Charlottesville, Va.,; during a visit there after a
severe snow storm. A broken arm resulted.

Expense Account:

Reported by Dr. Wm. M. Brown, ’14, defeated anti-
Smith candidate for Governor of Virginia was $8,-

Do0.7 1.

Moved: .
Dr. Henry Louis Smith and family left Lexington

January 10 for Greensboro, N. C., where he now

makes his home.

Chapel Visitors:

Reported during 1929 totalled 75,000. The largest
number for one day, 818, registered during Labor
Day. 14,990 registered during August.

o

OBITUARY

DIED: William Dickinson Lewis, ’77, one time trus-
tee of Washington and Lee, banker and business man
of Charleston, W. Va., at his home in Charleston,
Sunday, December 15. Mr. Lewis resigned from the

Board of Trustees two years ago because of failing
health.

DIED: William A. Glasgow, B.S., ’86, following
an operation in his home city, Philadelphia. A na-
tive of Fincastle, Va., where he entered the practice

of law after graduation from Washington and Lee,

he entered the Philadelphia bar in 1904. Success and

fame attended him. Attorney for the Interstate Com-
merce Commission, counsel for the Federal Food Ad-
ministration and chief counsel for the United Mince
Workers of America were but a few of the many le-
gal positions held by him. He was a brother of Judge
Joseph A. Glasgow, ’88, of Staunton and of Dr. Mc-
Pheeters Glasgow, ’84, of Nashville, Tenn. Interment
was in Lexington, Monday, March 17.

DIED: D. C. O'Flaherty, ’91, lawyer, of heart at-
tack in his office at Richmond, Va., October 2, 1929.

DIED: H. Smith Rucker, B.L., 98, at Clarendon,
Va., December 9. Burial was at Buena Vista, his na-
tive home.

DIED: Lewis Archer McMurran, B.L,., ’07, law-
yer and business man of Newport News, law part-
ner of Phillip W. Murray, ’08, at Newport News dur-
ing January, of cirosis of the liver. Mr. McMurran
was a leading citizen of Newport News, a substantial
factor in its growth and progress. He was largely
instrumental in locating the Dodge Motor Boat plant
in that city and in gaining control of the Old Domin-
ion Land Co., by local capital. His illness was long
and without hope for recovery.

DIED: E. A. Salamonsky, ’11, architect of New
York city on Christmas Day, suicide.

DIED: The College bell was tolled at ten o’clock
on Wednesday, November 27th, as a mark of respect,
to the passing of Daniel Staley Dix, outstanding grad-
uate of the Class of 728.

Mr. Dix graduated with Phi Beta Kappa honors
in three and a half years, making grade “A” in all of
his courses, the highest possible scholastic record. He
was a member of many honorary college organiza-
tions, and was very popular with his fellow-students.

After graduation Mr. Dix entered the insurance
business with his father in Mobile, Alabama.

He has a younger brother, William Dix, who is
now in the sophomore class at Washington and Lee.

KILLED: George A. Turner, ’29, of Harrison-
burg in an automobile wreck near Richmond, Va.,
Sunday, March 9.

DIED: Judge Melville Peck, father of H. Crim
Peck, B.S., 07, mayor of Lexington, at West Palm
Beach, Florida, following an appendicitis operation.

2,
Tee “9% ae

MARRIAGES

MARRIED: L. W. Adams, instructor in economics
at Washington and Lee and Miss May Davidson of
Lexington, at the bride’s home, December 31, 1929.

_ They are living at Ithaca, N. Y., where Prof. Adams

is taking post-graduate work in Cornell University.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

MARRIED: James H. Bryan, ’21, and Minnie
Louise Meyer-at Birmingham, Ala., April 8.

MARRIED: Harold Duane St. John, ’25, and
Dorothy Dathryn Estep, Friday evening, January 17.
At home, 85 Washington St., East Orange, N. J.

MARRIED: David FE. Strain and Virginia Brown,
at Harrisonburg, Va., November 8. They are making
their home in Lexington.

MARRIED: Harold E. Slanker, ex ’29, of Wash-
ington, D. C., and Eva Virginia Johnson of Baltimore,
October 26, 1929, :

MARRIED: Charles Perry Hooker, of West Palm
Beach, Fla., and Rowena Ann Moses of Lexington,
at Lexington. Their home is at West Palm Beach.

ENGAGED: Frederick M. P. Pierce, Jr., senior
law student, of Meutchen, N. J., and Emily E. Penick,
daughter of Mr. and Mrs. Paul M. Penick, ’96, of
Lexington.

 

BORN: To Mr.: and Mrs. George T. Holbrook,
"a2, a daughter, Diantha, September 21, 1929.

Holbrook is in charge of the Bank Claim Dept.,
The Century Indemnity Co., Hartford, Conn.

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Greenbury “Buck” Sim-
mons, a son, Charles Giles, at Louisville, Ky. Young
“Buck” is registered for entrance at W. and IL. in
1949,

fea SN, Gag
@

PERSONALS

BRISCOE B. BOULDIN, ’70, of Greensboro, N.
C., owns the original copy of General Robert E. Lee’s
farewell address, known as “General Orders No. 9.”

HON. HARRY ST. GEORGE TUCKER, ’77,
received the statue of the late Senator Wade Hamp-
ton of South Carolina in behalf of the United States
in a special address before the U. S. House of Repre-
sentatives January 21.

EF. RANDOLPH PRESTON, ’02, of Charlotte,

N. C., was a recent visitor to Lexington.

ROBERT H. SPAHR, ’08, is associate director of
the General Motors Institute of Technology at Flint,
Michigan. During November he represented the so-
ciety for the Promotion of Engineering Education at
the international conference of technical experts in the
printing industry at Carnegie Institute of Technology,
Pittsburg, Pa. .

Later, he addressed the American Association of
Junior Colleges upon the subject of engineering edu-
cation at its annual convention in Atlantic City.

C. $8. GLASGOW, ’11, of Lexington, was called to
‘Philadelphia February 22nd to the bedside of his
uncle, Wm. A. Glasgow, ’88, prominent attorney of
that city.

JOHN IZARD, ’11, now resides in Ashville, N.
C. His mail address is P. O. Box 1837, Ashville.

Wm. P. RIVIERE, B.A., ’11,:M.A.; 712, D.D., ‘28,
accepted a call to the pastorate of the First Presbyte-
rian Church of Victoria, Texas, last fall.

EDWARD M. CRAIG, ’14, is a civil engineer and
resides at 3515, 78th St., Jackson Heights, N. Y.

ERNEST KELLINER, Jr., B.L., ’14, has become
a member of the law firm of Percy, Strauss & Kelli-

ner with offices in the Weinberg Bldg., Greenville,
Miss.

WOODSON P. HOUGHTON, ’15, associated
with Wade H. Ellis, ’88, in the practice of law at
Washington, D. C., became a member of the firm

now known as Ellis, Ferguson, Houghton and Gary,
on October 15, 1929,

MR. and MRS. ROBERT IGNICO, 716, of
San Antonio, Texas, visited Lexington during the
past fall.

CHARLES KUPFER, ’19, has formed a law part-
nership with Stewart Maurice with offices at 149
Broadway, New York City.

WALTER E. B. SMITH, ’20, has entered the pri-
vate practice of law with offices at 618 Atlantic Na-
tional Bank Bldg., Jacksonville, Florida.

CHARLES O. HANDLEY, ’22, quail specialist
for the Virginia State Game department, spoke upon
the habits and feeding of quail before the Lexington
Chapter of the Izaac Walton League recently.

HOWARD NEVTERVILLE announces

opening of his law office at 1006-7 Fidelity Bank
Bldg., Memphis, Tenn.

ENSIGN ALEXANDER MOORE of the U. S.
S. Texas, stationed at Annapolis, Md., spent Christ-
mas with his mother in Lexington. — :

JAMESS TOLLY, BA, 27. (new 2 ea ot
White’s Biblical Seminary, filled the pulpit at McEFli-
vee Chapel, near Lexington, recently.

S
Toe

MEMORIAL OF DR. FRANKLIN LAFA-
YETTE RILEY ADOPTED BY THE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF WASHING-
TON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ON JAN.
UARY 20, 1930:

WHEREAS, the Board of ‘Trustees has learned,
with feeling of the most profound sorrow and regret,

 

 

34 THE ALUMNI

 

 

ATTENTION ALUMN I!

The management of the little shop which is oper-
ated in conjunction with the Lee Museum wishes to
call your attention to the articles which it has for
sale, consisting of photographs of General Robert
E. Lee, 11 x 14, ready for framing, at 85c. each, in-
cluding postage; the following books at $1.10 per
copy, including postage: RECOLLECTIONS AND
LETTERS OF ROBERT E. LEE, by his son (a
former edition of this book sold for $5.00); LEE
THE AMERICAN, by Gamaliel Bradford; TWIN
PATRIOTS—WASHINGTON AND LEE—AND
OTHER ESSAYS, by Mrs. Flournoy.

No Southern library is complete without some
books on General Lee. Fill out the coupon and at-
tach check and your order will be taken care of
promptly.

 

Lee Museum,
- Lexington, Va.

Enclosed find check for $.........0...000.:00065. , for
which please goad me ee photographs of
General Robert E. Lee, and. .................... copies of

Be es:

St ees.

 

~McCRUMS "

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

~

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

Mae ae)

of the sad death on November 10, 1929, of Dr. Frank-
lin Lafayette Riley, Head Professor of History at
Washington and Lee University for the past fifteen
years; and,

WHEREAS, we recognize in his death the loss of
an accomplished scholar, an inspiring and gifted
teacher, and a Christian gentleman who has reflected,
not only in the South but throughout the entire na-
tion, a marvellous credit upon this University which
he has served so faithfully and so well:

THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That we
tender to his bereaved family our deepest sympathy
in this hour of their great sorrow.

RESOLVED FURTHER: That these resolutions
be spread upon the minutes of the Board ot ‘Trustees
of Washington and Lee University, and that a copy
of them be sent to the family of Dr. Franklin Lafay-
ette Riley.

FINALS 1930:

Washington and Lee students will complete their
final examinations during the last week of May.
Successful seniors, socially minded undergraduates

‘and hard worked professors will remain for that

period of celebration, entertainment and instruction
known as “Finals,” May 30-June 3.

To deliver the annual baccalaureate address is Dr.
M. Ashby Jones, ’91, noted St. Louis, Mo. divine.
The commencement address will be delivered Tues-
day morning, June 3 in the Lee Chapel by Robert
Tunstall, barrister of Norfolk, Va.

Betimes dances and dancers will hold sway at the
Doremus Memorial Gymnasium, fraternity houses and
elsewhere. ‘The usual program will be followed.

Of particular interest is Monday, June 2, ALUMNI
DAY. Alumni will meet at 10:30 A. M. in the
Alumni Building, will be presided over by able Alumni
Association President Edwin C. Caffrey, ’09, of
Newark, N. J., will greet their new secretary, H. K.
“Cy” Young, will elect members to vacancies on their
Board of ‘Trustees, will recommend alumni to fill
vacancies on the University Board of Trustees.

Also meeting at the same morning hour will be
the’ University Board of ‘Trustees.
Trustees will join with seniors and visitors at the an-
nual buffet luncheon given by the University to her
returning sons. During the late afternoon the an-
nual Albert Sydney-Harry Lee Crew race will draw
alumni and visitors to North River.

Officers and trustees of the University will be
guests of the officers and trustees of the Alumni
Association for dinner Officers
and trustees of the University will formally receive
alumni, seniors, their parents and friends at 9:00 P.
M. in lieu of the annual president’s reception. The

Alumni and

Monday evening.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

Senior Alumni Ball will close the festive day—ex-
cept for those old and new members of the Ham
society, who will gather for the semi-annual rites
over the ancient pork in some secret place to be
designated by Grand Sachem and chief of the carv-
ing knife, Dan B. Owen, 712.

MOVING:

The Phi Kappa Alpha Chapter at Washington and
Lee has sold its house on Jackson Ave. to Prof. C.
F,. Williams, ’07, and has completed arrangements
for constructing a house facing Main Street in the
University’s Fraternity Park.

Thus will the P. K. A’s. join the Phi Delta Theta,
Sigma Nu, Phi Kappa Sigma and Beta Theta Pi
chapters in providing the University with beautiful
fraternity houses in the rapidly developing section
at the campus (memorial gateway) entrance.

APPOINTED:

William L. Mapel, assistant in the department of
Journalism, to the headship of that department, suc-
ceeding R. B. Ellard, resigned.

ELECTED:

William 'G. Bean, associate professor of history,
to the headship of the history department, succeed-
ing Franklyn L. Riley, deceased.

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI

See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats: Shoes and Socks

 

 

PRINTERS

‘COLLEGE AND SCHOOL
PUBLICATIONS

PROGRAMS
INVITATIONS

PERSONAL STATIONERY

Surber Publishing Co.

(INCORPORATED)

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VIRGINIA

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

Quality

 

Specialists in College Printing
EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Service

 

Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

Last CALL!
Book now for these
Alumni Sailings to Europe!

 

When the AMERICA points her prow eastward... June
4, July 2 and July 30, you’re going to regret it if you're
not aboard. College men and women from every fa-

mous campus... jolly alumni from your own school...

 

alumni of your traditional rival... college band...
college spirit .. . college color ... will enliven and illuminate its decks. Could you cross in a more
delightful environment? Ever since the United States Lines and the American Merchant Lines were
chosen as the official fleet of 103 Alumni organizations, and the AMERICA designated as the
official flagship, personnel has coneehtrated on making these gala sailings. To aid you in locating
oldtime friends ...a card index of alumni residents in Europe will be found in the London, Paris
and Berlin offices of the United States Lines. Register! Write your diefani secretary today or fill

out coupon below and mail to the United States Lines office nearest you.

UNITED STATES LINES

MAIL TH!S COUPON TODAY TO
THE NEAREST OFFICE LISTED BELOW

UNITED STATES LINES, 45 Broadway, New York
61-63 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago 691 Market St., San Francisco

I am interested in making a trip to Europe this summer
on the official alumni fleet. Please give me information,
without obligation on my part, on sailings, accommoda-

 

 

 

OFFICIAL ALUMNI FLEET

LEVIATHAN, World’s Largest Ship
GEORGE WASHINGTON AMERICA
REPUBLIC — PRESIDENT HARDING

PRESIDENT ROOSEVELT

FO? i SIF I

And direct New York-London service

weekly on
AMERICAN BANKER AMERICAN SHIPPER

AMERICAN FARMER AMERICAN TRADER
AMERICAN MERCHANT

 

 

tions and rates.
VOC ee ee e
ARO Pe ee oe ees ee
Cie a ee 2

Aba Aa a z

 

 

 

 

 

 

