Ell

em

SE ANY “Sli RE
4

aE

 

nthe

 

 

 

 

LIBRARY OF

wah ale WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

“THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE" “*

OF JUN 2 0 1977

$;

Washington and Lee University |

 

 

 

Volume IV JANUARY, 1928 Number |

 

 

 

 

 

"GENERAL Ropert Epwarp LEE
—Born, Jan. 19, 1807
$2.50 Per Year 3 30c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory 1s published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business

at a distance. or of a special professional character.

Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-

tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

rectory. Rates on application.

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
At’'rvoRNEY-AtT-LAW

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg.,
Atlantic City, N. J.

R. E. MOORE
ATTORNEY-AT-LAw

Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.
Bluefield, W. Va.

 

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAwyYER

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg.,
Huntington, West Virginia

WE COLLECT IN ANY CITY IN
THE UNITED STATES

K. & T. ADJUSTMENT BUREAU
Report's, CoLLECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS

All Business Strictly Confidential

Room 206 Kleeman Building, Summers St.

Charleston, W. Va.

 

 

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE

Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Florida

W. H. Jackson, 08 J. W. Dupres, '21

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS
Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401

Philadelphia |

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE
Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

 

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

 

Compliments of the President of the

Alumni, Inc.

E. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

ALEX M. HITZ |
ATTORNEY AT LAw

210 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlanta, Georgia

 

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, 718 and ’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

DovuciaAs, Oskar & Doucras

Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

 

ROBERT B. McDOUGLE
ATTORNEY-AtT-LAW

15-19 Citizens National Bank Building,
Parkersburg, W. Va.

 

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713
ATTORNEY AT LAW

811 Boxley Building,

Roanoke, Virginia

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
David E. Smitherman

- Law OFFICES
Commercial National Bank Building,

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

aS
a Tarts Cie

NOW! All popular fraternity and sorority songs recorded by
noted Victor - Brunswick artists. WRITE TODAY FOR FREE
CATALOG of 50 new college and fraternity records.
Fraternity Record Co.
W. ADAMS PLYMOUTH, IND.

   

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’i0

Generai Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

W. and L,, Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency.

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men. Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

 

ae

_E. P. DAVIS, President C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.
HEADQUARTERS FOR THE VIRGINIA GAME
MAIL ORDERS FOR

SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00

Promptly Filled
M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

THE ALUMNI MIAGAZINE

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virgina
E. C. Carrrey, President VERBON FE. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GraHaM, Jr., Treasurer : Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Hphered <6 Boe Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
i Views ee a Oo Ie Belton Co Barect)  .  cs ee 26
The Qlumni Buildips 2.2 6 ee ee 4-5 Aho &: Gordon, 72 ............ ee 26
Athletics—Homecoming Day, The Virginia Game, | Deine Wiltoe, OS 30 8... a. ee
Pe 6-11 Soni Jones, OF 00 28
Know Your Alma Meler 2 2.2 see 12 WW. Jeuiauck, “OS 0) 29
President Smith Institutes Study of Curriculum 13 Hivaw il. Dow, 8% 0.0.48 ee ee 31
Vhey Game Back (04. .0 3.26) 615 re 14-15 Rope ns. Witt, [oe 6 ee. 32
Banty. Dress . 2... - ee ee a 16 lavior | Stone, 1045.00...) 2 3... a2
Cpa ee eee ee 18 WW. Ee Trotter, 21-0 ee. 34
William: Methesitey Martin, 95 ....2.....°..- 19 RT Shields.) OO ee a5
Glimpses: of General Lee... el ess. - 20 Robt. R. Brown, Coach W. & L. 705-09 ........ 36
lle Pime Woo8 i Pe eo 21-23 Notable Doings of Washington and Lee Folk .... 37
oro Wentucky Jute. 6 8 ese ee 24 betters. 8 ee 38
Neen t Pakey 2 2 ee es 25 Persdnale (i ya) a 39-41

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

E

 

 

 

   

Newton D. Baker, B.L., ’94
“_Tunched on pie and buttermilk”
(See page 25)

 

Courtesy, Time, Inc.

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

VoL. IV

JANUARY, 1928 No. 1

 

Tur AL,uMNI Macazineg, Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

 

The Year

Students assembled in the gymnasium, heard J.
Fred Essary, famed journalist and author of the
recent book “Covering Washington ;” were entertained ;
applauded. ;

Next door neighbors, the V. M. I. cadets, went on
strike. Washington and Lee students and faculty
sympathized with their corresponding divisions, evi-
denced the good feeling now existing between the
two institutions.

The Alumni Building, provided by the University
and remodelled and furnished by liberal alumni and
friends was formally opened on Homecoming Day.
Luncheon was served to three hundred guests.

Alumni, students and friends of Washington and
Lee and of the University of Virginia packed the
stands at Wilson Field, witnessed the annual grid-
iron classic between their respective teams, saw the
Generals go down in inglorious defeat, saw the Ca-
valiers stiffen and score a victory against superior

odds.

Lexington contracted after receiving and accommo-
dating six thousand visitors on Homecoming Day;
settled back to normal routine.

Football enthusiasm, white hot before the Virginia
game, congealed deadly cold as the team lost to V.
P. I. and the University of Florida. Students granted
a holiday to attend the V. P. I. game at Blacksburg,
went elsewhere or stayed at home.

President Henry Louis Smith spoke before the Vir-
ginia Bankers Association at Richmond, before the
Staunton Kiwanis Club; pressed his drive for
modernizing Washington and Lee’s curriculum re-
quirements.

Student debaters competed with the travelling
English Debating team in open forum debate, were
greeted with a full house, were victorious.

The Troubadours, student musical and dramatic
organization, presented their Thanksgiving play
“Easy Come, Easy Go” at the New Theater, were
well received.

Students assembled to hear Dr. J. Floyd Black,
President of the University of Sofia.

Christmas and the approaching holiday was sig-
nalized by the reading of Dickens’ Christmas Carol
by Prof. M. G. Bauer and the singing of Christmas
carols by the glee club in the Lee Chapel under the

- auspices of the English Department. Most im-

pressive was the Chapel itself, lighted with candles
and banked with cedars. :

An epidemic of mumps was rumored among stu-
dents. Then V. M. I. was quarantined with two
cases of infantile paralysis. Panicky students left
Lexington post haste.

Other students, canny, saved cuts, added from two
to six days to their holiday, left less than one-third of
the student body behind to go through the motions of
attending classes until December 22nd.

Work on the Class Memorial Bridge neared com-
pletion, was halted as cold weather set in.

The faculty met on December 19th, approved af-
ter much controversy the new _ businesslike class
schedule for next year; contemplated an_ earlier
breakfast, classes at 8:30 A. M., lunch at 12:30 P. M.;
classes from 1:30 to 3:30 P. M.

Plans for broadcasting a special alumni banquet
program from Lexington on Lee’s birthday, January
19th, over radio were discussed and abandoned. In-
stead Lexington alumni will meet for dinner in the
Alumni Building, hear Hon. John W. Davis and other
speakers. Various local associations will meet and
hear local programs.

It was announced that Judge Charles J. McDer-
mott, of New York City, able and interested trustee,
would deliver the Founders’ Day address on January

19th.

Students returned, repeated the formula “have a
nice Christmas?” were greeted by clear zero weather ;
the basketball season opened with early victories; ex-
aminations and the famed Fancy Dress Ball approached.

 

M. L. GOODMAN, ’26, passed the Certified Public
Accounting exam on November Ist, and is now em-
ployed by the A. Lee Rawlings Company public ac-
countants, of Norfolk, Va.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Alumni Building

Visiting alumni, their families and friends crowded
the new Alumni Headquarters to capacity on Home-
coming Day, Nov. 5th. The old McLaughlin house,
120 years old, stood the strain, re-echoed the gayety
of the 40’s, of the 60’s and 90’s, stood resplendent like
a wrinkled old lady in new bonnet and dress.

Without; new steps had been built, old walls
strengthened, woodwork painted. Some cracks and
breaks remained in unalligned side walls.

Within; new paper, plaster and paint, electric wiring
and fixtures, floors and partitions provided a more at-
tractive appearance. The walls were adorned with
framed photographs of various alumni, of Washington
and Lee scenes, athletic teams and alumni gatherings.

A buffet luncheon was served to visitors in the alumni
office. The crowds gathered, plate in hand, in the
commodious lounge rooms, reminisced over old
times, met old friends, talked football, noted the
pictures on the wall, the furnishings, and the room ar-
rangement.

The right hand front entrance opened into a small
lobby or reception hall furnished in wicker. ‘To the
right was a small den or writing room; to the left a
curving walnut stairway leading up to the living apart-
ment of Alumni Secretary and Mrs. Verbon EK. Kemp.
Through open double doors ahead was the club room,
furnished in Spanish leather and brown mahogany.
Particularly attractive were the lamp shades made by

Miss Mary Barclay. Connecting through a small hall-
way in the rear was a lavatory and toilet room and to
the left the Alumni Office and workshop, wherein labor
the Alumni Secretary, Miss Dora Witt and Miss Mary
Barclay over the ALUMNri MacaziIneE, Endowment Fund
collections, alumni address files, Bridge and Loyalty
Fund collections, alumni correspondence.

Visitors seemed pleased. Many made the building
their headquarters during the day, gathered for post-
humous discussion over the Virginia game in the even-
ing, enjoyed fellowship with Maynard Smith, 715,
Judge E. C. Caffrey, ’09, Rayford Alley, ’11, Louis S.
Epes, 02, Lewis McMurran, ’06, K. A. C. Hoge, ’07,
“Tubby” Derr, ’10, their families and friends.

Thus were the new headquarters of the Alumni As-
sociation opened; thus were the fifty donors to the re-
habilitation fund justified.

Particular appreciation for their generous gifts was
expressed to Hon. F. T. A. Junkin, of Chicago, IIL,
and Hot Springs, Va.; to Mr. H. A. Fitzgerald of
Danville, Va.; to Henry Boley and Miss Mary Barclay
of Lexington, non-alumni donors to the house fund.

The sum of $2301.00 was contributed for the alumni
house fund. $2247.40 of this amount has been spent
on repair and furnishings. A balance of $153.60 re-
mains for additional furniture and work on the yard in
the spring.

 

 

DR. W. LECONTE STEVENS DIES
DECEMBER 29

Home anp Errects Desrrovep By Frre January 3

After a lingering illness due to paralysis, Dr. W.
LeConte Stevens, professor emeritus of physics at
Washington and Lee, died at his home on Letcher
Avenue. Following his retirement in 1922 Dr. Ste-
vens was succeeded by Dr. Benj. A. Wooten.

In the early years Dr. Stevens taught chemistry and
physical science, then took post graduate work at
Strasburg, Berlin and Zurich in ’90 and ’92 and began
teaching physics as a specialty in the north before com-
ing to Lexington. He was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa and several scientific organizations and wrote
many articles along the line of optics and acoustics.

Dr. Stevens was a scholar and a gentleman of the
old type and his death will be felt by the large num-
ber of friends in this and other communities. The
last years of his life were devoted to aiding the sick,
visiting his friends often with some dainty from his
kitchen. He also devoted much time to music, having
an excellent collection of Victor records, including
thirty complete operas, which gave him the chance to
entertain his friends with most enjoyable musicals.

On January 3rd Dr. Stevens’ home was burned to
the ground. The occupants, Mrs. W. LeConte Ste-
vens and her widowed sister and Mr. John Letcher,
were awakened about 3 A. M. to find the lower back
porch ablaze from unknown cause. The house burned
for several hours in spite of constant drenching from
fire hose, but by nine o’clock the fire was out shough
the whole dwelling was a total wreck.

 

DR. SWEETS SPEAKS TO SOCIOLOGY
CLASS

Dr. Henry Sweets, of Louisville, Ky., spoke to the
class in Sociology recently. Dr. Sweets is chairman
of the Executive Committee on Religious Education
of the Presbyterian Church. He discussed social re- |
lations in the Orient and the efforts made in the
South to bring about a better understanding between
the leaders of the white people and of negroes.

 

~ WALDO DUNNINGTON of W. & L. has been
elected a member of the newly formed International
History of Science Society (Isis), which is a branch
of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science.

in

 

The Alumni Building

 

 

Upper—A CorNER IN THE LOUNGE Room—“‘—Spanish leather and brown Mahogany”
Center—A CoRNER IN THE ALUMNI OFrFficE—‘Wherein Labor—”

Lower—Tut Op McLaucuyin Houst Now tHe ALuMNI Buitpinc—Looking Toward the Campus

 

Photos by R. E. Witt, ’06

 

aoa tla LAE

 

 

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Homecoming Day

The return of Walter N. Bootay, ’09, two weeks
in advance signalized the gathering of the alumni
clans in Lexington for Homecoming Day, Saturday,
Nov. 5th. It was the first visit by “Boots” since his
student days.

Then came automobile parties with “Cy” Young,
17, and Allein Beall, 17, from Helena, Arkansas, in
the vanguard; with Sam and Phillip Laughlin, ‘12,
and Pierce Lantz, ’15, from Wheeling, W. Va.; with
“Pete” Gibson, 715, from Huntington, W. Va., “Bob”
Hobson, ’15, from Louisville, Ky., and “Tom” Roth-
rock, 713, from Jackson, Tenn., Mr. and Mrs. Ray-

- ford W. Alley, ’11, from New York City. Early auto

arrivals came from Asheville, N. C., from Richmond
and Norfolk, Va., Charlotte, N. C., Charleston, W.
Va., and Birmingham, Ala. Mr. and Mrs. Maynard
Smith, 713, and Brooks Mell, 712, made Lexington in
18 hours from Atlanta, Ga.

Incoming trains and buses were overtaxed. Lex-
ington hotels and private homes were filled to capacity.
The weather was good. On the eve of Homecoming
Day Lexington and the old campus resounded with
greetings and meetings, with good cheer and football
exhuberance. ‘The newly opened alumni headquarters
soon became the center of activity. A few faculty
members were always on hand to greet their former
students. Here old friends met and swapped ex-
periences, bought tickets for the game, were directed
to hotel and rooming house accommodations. By
Saturday morning the convocation was complete.
Judge FE. C. Caffrey, ’09, arrived from Newark, N. J.
with three guests. Laurence C. Witten, °10, arrived
from Cincinnati; Dan Owen, 712, and Dr. William
Allan, ’02, were already “on deck”. With E. P.
Davis, °15, and alumni secretary, Verbon FE. Kemp,
19, these trustees of the Alumni Association Inc. met
at the Alumni Building.

At noon over three hundred alumni and their. wives
gathered at the Alumni Building for a buffet luncheon,
presided over by Miss Mary Barclay and Miss Dora
Witt, assistants to the alumni secretary, and by Mrs.
Maynard Smith, of Atlanta. A reception committee
headed by Mrs. L. J. Desha, Mrs. C. E. Williams,
Mrs. R. L. Latture, Mrs. G. D. Hancock and Miss
Annie White made every visitor feel “at home”.
Judge E. C. Caffrey delivered an informal speech of
welcome and expressed in behalf of the Alumni As-
sociation, Inc., of which he is president, appreciation
to the donors who had made the Alumni Building
possible.

With the same objective in view every visitor headed
toward Wilson Field, regretted that the new foot-bridge
was incomplete, scrambled down hill, over the tracks
and up to the stands, were gratified at the sight of the

new playing field, found their seats, joined in the bois-
terous enthusiasm of the occasion.

Crestfallen, humiliated; post mortems were held in
hotel lobbies, on the street and at the Alumni Club
rooms. Many survived the gloom of defeat, gathered
for supper at the Alumni Building, continued to cele-
brate. Others departed for home, dispirited, chagrinned.

Thus ended the best attended homecoming celebra-
tion ever held at Washington and Lee. Approxi-
mately one thousand alumni were present in Lexing-
ton. ‘I'wo hundred registered at Alumni Headquar-
ters. ‘There were seventy-five hundred paid admis-
sions at the game.

Regardless of the defeat, it appeared that a good
time was had by all!

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE BOWS TO V. P. I.
21-0

Brilliant running of Frank Peake, phenomenal back
of Virginia Poly was the principal factor in the Gob-
lers’ 21 to O triumph over Washington and Lee*at
Blacksburg. End runs and off-tackle thrusts with
Peake apparently carrying the pigskin on three out
of every four plays accounted for the Tech gains and
proved the ruin of the big Blue and White eleven.

V. P. 1.’s offensive superiority was clearly demon-
strated. ‘Iwo of the “Three Grenadiers” in the In-
stitute backfield were missing but the third mem-
ber of the trio gave an exhibition of ball toting
that easily stamps him as one of the topnotch backfield
stars of the south. Peake’s performance, however,
was aided materially by stellar work in the Gobler
line.

Washington and Lee, although displaying an ability
to gain ground at times when in their own territory,
seemed unable to get near the Gobler goal.

———————

TIPS ON PRINCETON ALL-OPPONENT
: TEAM

Captain Tips of Generals has been placed on an
All-Opponents eleven of Princeton, selected by Al
Wittmer, line coach of the Tigers. The team con-
sists of six Yale men, two from Cornell, and one
each from Washington and Lee and Ohio State.

The other guard position is also filled by a cap-
tain, Webster of Yale. ‘This is a singular honor for
the Generals’ leader when one considers the calibre
of the elevens which the Tigers faced this season.
Perhaps they have not yet forgotten the time back in
1926 when Tips scooped up a fumble and ran for a

- touchdown.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE /

The Virginia Game

We lost. Little can be added to the play by play
account which is reprinted herewith. For the second
time in two years a superior Blue and White team
was defeated by a less able Cavalier eleven.

A fumble and a bad punt early in the game pro-
vided the first score for the alert opponents. Re-
taliating drives were effective until in the shadow of
Virginia goal posts. ‘Then the Cavalier defense and
the Generals’ offense solidified. A touchdown was
eked out by inches. Blue and White supporters were
joyfully content with a tie. But not Virginia. A
spirited passing game quickly brought them the win-
ning touchdown early in the last quarter. The de-
feated Generals wilted with their fighting Captain
nursing a sprained ankle on the side lines. The game
ended 13 to 7 with much credit to the Virginia team.

PLAY BY PLAY

Lott kicked off to Sloan on Virginia’s 5-yard line
and the Cavalier halfback ran the ball out to his own
33 yard line. Hutter gained five yards in two line
plays and then Sloan kicked out of bounds on the W.
& L. 23 yard line. Howe made a yard through tackle.
Lott failed to gain but Virginia was penalized 5 yards
for being offside on the play. White went through
the center of the line for 6 yards and a first down.
Luke threw Howe for a yard loss and then Syming-
ton broke through to throw Lott for a 4 yard set-
back. Spotts then punted against the wind to his own
41 yard line where Hushion signalled for a fair catch.
Hutter made two yards off right tackle and Kaminer
hit the center of the Generals’ line for a 1 yard gain.
A long pass from Sloan to Hushion was incompleted.
Sloan then kicked to Lott who was downed on his
own 14 yard line. White hit the line for two yards
and then Lott punted, the ball going out on his own
30 yard line. Stearns then broke up another pass
from Sloan to Hushion. Sloan was stopped in an
attempted end run. Another Sloan to Hushion heave
was broken up and then Sloan got off a nice kick
which went out of bounds on the Generals’ 5 yard
line. Spotts kick was rushed and went out on his
own 23 yard line. Hutter got 3 yards through center.
Kaminer gained 2 through left tackle. Hushion was
held to a yard around end on a fake pass play. Hut-
ter hit right tackle for 2 yards and it was the Gen-
erals ball on downs. On the first play Lott fumbled
on the 8 yard line and Daniels recovered for the Cava-
liers. On the first play Hutter got through to the 3
yard line through left tackle and on the next play put
it within 2 feet of the goal line. Hutter was stopped
in his tracks on the third down, but on the Cavalier’s
last try Hushion pushed through center for a touch-
down. Captain Cardwell scored the extra point by a
placement kick.

fair catch on his own 39° yard line.

Byrd then kicked off to Fisher on the 30 yard line
and the Blue and White tackle ran it back to the 37
yard line. Lott made a first down on two plays
through the line. Howe made two yards around
right end and then Lott picked up 15 yards on a beau-
tiful criss-cross play, taking the ball around left end
to the Virginia 35 yard line. Lott gained 6 yards on
a triple pass and White crashed the center of the line
for 3 yards. Howe failed to gain but White hit cen-
ter for first down on the Cavalier 21 yard line. Lott
failed to gain on a double pass. White ran outside
after a 4 yard gain on the next play.. Howe then
made 5 yards on a lateral pass as the quarter ended.

Score: Va. 7; W. & 1; 0.

Second Quarter.

On the first play White went through center for a
3 yard gain and first down. Virginia was penalized
5 yards for offside and the Generals had the ball on
the 4 yard mark. White and Howe were both stopped
in their tracks by the Orange and Blue line which was
fighting with its back to the wall. Howe then took it
again and reached the 2 yard line. White failed by
inches to get the touchdown and it was the Cavaliers’
ball on the goal line. Sloan got off a long kick to the
45 yard line and Lott carried it back to the 35 marker
before being stopped. Lott made 6 yards around left
end and White made it first down through the line.
White was forced out of bounds after a yard gain |
and then Howe picked up 3 yards on a pretty double
pass. A lateral pass was fumbled resulting in a 6
yard loss. Lott’s long heave to Howe was just a few
inches too far for Bobby to reach and it was Vir-
ginia’s ball on their own 28 yard line. ‘The Cavaliers
were stopped in their tracks by the fast charging
General line and Sloan finally punted to Lott who
was downed on his own 36 yard line. Lott made a
first down on a lateral pass on the first play. Two
criss-cross plays failed to gain. W. & LL. was pena-
lized 15 yards on the next play and were forced to
punt. Spotts kicked to Hushion whe signalled for a
Three tries
through tackle failed to gain more than 5 yards so
Sloan punted to Lott on the Blue and White 27 yard
line. Lott ran it back 10 yards. On another double
pass Howe gained 8 yards. Lott gained 1 but White
was stopped so that Spotts punted on the next play.
Hushion caught the ball on his own 39 yard line and
was downed in his tracks. Pinkerton wriggled through
the line for a 3 yard gain and then Sloan, Virginia’s
diminutive sophomore halfback, went off right tackle
for 14 yards to make Virginia’s initial first down. On
the next play the Generals came right back and Bill
Dorsey threw Sloan for a 12 yard loss in breaking up
an attempted pass as the whistle blew ending the half.

 

 

 

 

 

a THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Virginia had the ball on their own 40 yard line. Score,
Va. 7 AN & £;., 0.

Third Quarter.

Captain Cardwell kicked off to Fitzpatrick on the 25
yard line and he ran it out 10 yards. Three plays net-
ted the Generals 9 yards and then Spotts punted to
Hushion on his 13 yard line and Lott tackled him in
his tracks. ‘Three plays at the Blue and White line
were stopped without a gain and then Sloan punted to
Lott on the W. & L. 45 yard line. He returned it to
the Cavalier 43 yard line. The Generals then opened
up another offensive drive. Howe started it with a 7
yard gain on a double pass. Daniel, Virginia’s star
guard, threw him for a yard loss on his next attempt.
On the next play, a triple pass, Lott was tackled on the
22 yard line. Another triple pass, White to Howe to
Lott, again caught the Orange and Blue off their guard
and was good for 8 yards more. White, in two line
plays carried the oval to the 11 yard mark. Lott and
Howe were stopped by the Virginia forward wall which
never seemed to stiffen until forced down to the goal
line. Lott then completed a pass to Howe which put
the ball on the 4 yard line. Pinkerton broke up an-
other pass and it was Virginia’s ball on their own 5
yard line. Hushion and Pinkerton failed to gain in
two plays and Sloan kicked out to Lott on the 47
yard line. Lott ran it back 20 yards. White was
forced out after gaining a yard. Lott then passed to
Howe for a 12 yard gain. The ball was now on the
Virginia 14 yard line. Lott fumbled and Stearns recov-
ered for a 3 yard loss. White crashed through center
for 11 yards and on the next play made it first down on
the 4 yard line. White failed to gain and Howe then
crashed through for two yards. White pushed through
to the two foot line, and on the next play went over.
Lott dropkicked the extra point, tying the score.
Lott kicked off to Sloan who ran it out to his 35 yard
line as the third quarter ended. Score Va., 7; W. &
ee
. Fourth Quarter.

On the first play Sloan passed to Hushion who
caught the ball for a 17 yard gain while lying on his
back. Two line plays were stopped by Fitzpatrick
and Groop and then the Charlottesville team took to
the air again to gain 12 yards and the ball was on the
Generals’ 35 yard line. A pass was grounded and
two line plays netted but 5 yards. On the fourth
down Sloan heaved another which looked as though
it would end up in another score but Stearns rushed
over to break it up. It was W. & L..’s ball on their
own 20 yard line. Howe and Lott failed to gain.
Spotts punted to Sloan who signalled for a fair catch.
Someone failed to see his signal and tackled and the
Generals were penalized 15 yards. Sloan made 6
yards on a lateral and on the next play Sloan passed

one to Hushion who ran across the goal line for the
touchdown that won the game. ‘The pass was 12
yards and Hushion ran the remaining 10 in a clear
field. Capt. Cardwell’s placement for the extra point
was wide.

Cardwell kicked off to White who ran it out to the
40 yard line, but the Generals were penalized 15 yards
so that the ball was on the 25 yard line. A pass from
Lott to Howe netted 6 yards. Another, this time to
White, put the ball on the 46 yard mark. Lott gained
2 on a criss-cross. ‘Two passes were broken up and
Spotts punted to the Cavaliers 32 yard line. Pinker-
ton hit the line three times but gained only 3 yards.
Sloan punted to Lott on his 25 yard line. Lott ran it
back 12 yards. A pass was grounded. On the next
play, a triple lateral pass, Howe ran 18 yards before
being downed. White hit the line for 4 yards. An-
other pass failed. Then Lott shot one to Spotts for
a 15 yard gain. Still another, this time to Stearns,
and the ball was on the Cavalier 23 yard line. Two
more passes were broken up and on a third “attempt
Sloan intercepted one on his own 18 yard line. Three
tries at the line netted to gain for the Orange and Blue
and as Sloan went back to punt the game was over.

 

COLD COMFORT
W. & L.-Virginia Statistics

W. & L. Va.

14 First Downs 5

16 Forward Passes Attempted 9

6 Forward Passes Completed 4

0 Forward Passes Intercepted 1

35 yds. Average of Punts 40 yds.
55 yds. Penalties 15 yds.
346 yds. Total Yards Gained 182 yds.
70. yds. Gains by Passes 61 yds.

THE SEASON’S FOOTBALL RECORD

sept. 23—W. & L. 26 Lynchburg College 2
Oct. I1—W.& L. 6 West Va. 6
Qe ow a 1: 0 Princeton 13
Oct. 15—W. & I. 12 Duke 7
Oct. 22—W. & I. 25 Kentucky 0
Oct. 29—W. & L. 13 Maryland 6
Nov. 5—W.&L. 7 Virginia 13
Nov. 12—W. & L. O wv Fat, 21
Nov. 24—W. & L. 7 University of Fla. 20

DR. ROBERT TUCKER, member of the faculty
of Washington and Lee, was the speaker at a meeting
of the Wednesday Club, of Danville, Va., a few days
before Christmas. He discussed the governmental
reforms now taking place in Virginia, and analyzed
the administration program.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

ESPRIT DE CORPS—?

What’s wrong? ‘To be defeated by Virginia is dis-
tasteful. To be defeated twice in succession is bitter,
but can be swallowed. ‘To be defeated twice in suc-

cession by an obviously inferior team through fumbles »

and disjointed play is indigestible. Thus sane and
steady alumni write to ask, “What’s wrong?”

In “Pat” Herron, Washington and Lee has a tacti-
cian without equal and a football instructor par excel-
lence. He is also tremendously popular with his players.
Fach individual player accounted well in his position
throughout the season and gave his best. Captain
Tips was a tower of strength in body and _ spirit.
Results for the first half of the season showed that
the team was unusually strong, with several looming
stars.

Yet, in the first quarter of the Virginia game a
slender thread snapped. It did not mend during the
remaining games. It was a recurrence to a more
marked degree of last year’s phenomenon, though last
year there was a strong come-back against V. P. I.
This slender thread was that intangible thing known
as esprit de corps, or morale. No one individual can
be blamed for the break. Coach, players and student
body are equally responsible. | |

Perhaps failure to discipline strictly, perhaps a
slight break in training or a bit of individual star
playing, a slight departure from the coach’s instruc-
tion at times, a slight disaffection between players, a
slight undercurrent of criticism among the student
body or poor attendance and cheering at the games
(notably at the V. P. I. game) contributed to the sus-
tained break in morale. Certainly the thread was so
thin that a fumble and a bad punt snapped it beyond
repair. :

It was a common opinion among students that had
the Generals emerged victorious over Virginia they
would have conquered their remaining opponents, V.
P. I. and Florida. Perhaps the cumulative spirit of
victory might have welded the weak spot and this goal
achieved. It would have meant a strong Southern
Conference Championship claim, and the team was
of championship calibre, except for esprit de corps!

What constitutes esprit de corps? <A psychologist
might give a more accurate technical definition, but
to the sympathetic alumnus in the stands it is obedi-
ence, plus rigid training, plus co-ordinated effort, plus

individual fellowship on and off the field—all of these

elements to a superlative degree, for modern football
is a superlative game.

Cy

“ROSIE” McMURRAY, ex ’29, is attending St.
John’s School at Annapolis this winter, and intends to
transfer to the University of Southern California next
year.

FITZPATRICK WILL CAPTAIN VARSITY
FOOTBALL 1928

At the Athletic Association and Alumni banquet in
the University dining hall, given to the letter men and
others of the football team of W. & L., Fitzpatrick
was elected captain for next year’s battles. Herron
was asked back to coach the blue and white squad.

FE. P. Davis presided at the big chicken dinner given
the men here. The bitter defeats were forgotten in
the hope of the future and in remembering the suc-
cesses of the early part of the season. The men re-
ceiving letters included: ‘Tips, Groop, Fisher, Dorsey,
Spotts, Latham, Howe, Stearne, White, Hawkins,
Eberhardt, Barnett, Sproul, Lott, Barclay, Seligman,
Figlebach, Ward, the manager for the past year and
Snodgrass. Lanier was chosen for next year’s man-
ager of the business end of the team.

Speakers included Coach Rafferty, 715, of V. M. I.
and Charles Glasgow, ’10.

 

FRESHMEN ELEVEN HAS SUCCESSFUL
FOOTBALL SEASON

Coach Eddie Parks Davis and his Freshmen Cohorts
completed a most successful football! season, scoring
79 points against a total of 27 for their opponents
and winning four of the five games played.

On October 14 the Baby Gobblers from V. P. I.
attacked the Little Generals on Wilson Field in the
first game of the season, and walked off with the
spoils, 18-6. ‘They have gone through the remainder
of the season without defeat, and with only one touch-
down being scored against them after the W. L. game.

One week later the Little Generals invaded Staun-
ton to do battle with Staunton Military Academy
eleven. Three touchdowns were scored against the
Cadets and two tries for extra points were success-
ful, making the final score 20-0 in favor of the W.
& L,. men.

The next Friday the Freshmen Gridders journeyed
over to Charlottesville and took the measure of the
Baby Cavaliers by the count of 20-7.

After the Virginia game Wilson Field was the
scene of battle with Greenbriar. Running true to.
form, however, the local men-downed their guests
18-0. |

On Armistice Day the Freshmen went to New-
port News to meet the famed Apprentice school team.
Although the Newport News boys battled nobly they
were not powerful enough to withstand the smashing
and varied attack of the Frosh, and succumbed 15-2.

The V. P. I. Freshmen were awarded the Big
Four Championship but second place could be right-
fully awarded to the local Freshmen by virtue of their
victory over Virginia, and the close score in the V.
P. L- game. : |

 

 

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Tennessee on Generals’ 1928 Grid Program

The University of Tennessee appears on the Gen-
erals’ 1928 schedule for the first time in the history
of the two schools. A two year contract has been
signed. The first encounter will take place on Octo-
ber 27, 1928 in Knoxville, and the following year will
see the two elevens lock horns in Roanoke or pos-
sibly in Lexington. Duke University has been drop-
ped to make room for Tennessee, thus increasing the
number of the Generals’ conference opponents to six.

North Carolina State is another newcomer to the
Generals’ schedule. The “Wolfpack” replaces the Uni-
versity of Maryland due to the failure of Washing-
ton and Lee and Maryland to agree on a date. N. C.
State also boasts a strong aggregation, not losing a
single conference game. ‘The Wolfpack invades Lex-
ington on the sixth of October, and are likely to pro-
vide plenty of opposition.

The remaining games include the traditional rivals,
but many of the dates have been juggled around.
Princeton will not be played until November 10th, the

week following the Virginia game at Charlottesville.
West Virginia University has been postponed until
October 20th, a fact which may prove helpful in over-
coming the “West Virginia jinx.”

The schedule stands completed with only three non-
conference games, and six conference titles; and there
will be only three Varsity” battles on Wilson field
with six engagements on foreign gridirons. Home-
coming will be on November 17 when V. P. I. in-
vades the Generals in Lexington for the first time.

The complete schedule is as follows:

Sept. 29—Lynchburg College (here).

Oct. 6—N. C. State (here).

Oct. 13—Kentucky (there).

Oct. 20—West Virginia, (Charleston or a
Oct. 27—-Tennessee (there).

Nov. 3—Virginia (there).

Nov. 10—Princeton (there).

Nov. 17—V. P. I. (here) Homecoming.

Nov. 29—Florida, Jacksonville, Fla.

 

 

BASKETBALL STARTS

A substantial array of football stars exchanged the
stiff armor of the gridiron for the light uniforms of
the basketball cage and reported to Coach Dick Smith
for practice before Christmas» ‘These were Capt.
Babe Spotts, center, “Bobby’’ Howe, guard, “Heinie”’
Groop, guard, Gene White, forward, and Ejiglebach,
guard.

After a few preliminary workouts the squad jour-
neyed to Maryland, Catholic University, and the
Navy during the holidays. As usual this pre-season
practice trip resulted in nothing but experience the

1927-28 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE.

Generals being defeated in each of the three engage-
ments.

In addition to the players listed above “Hot”

_ Ebert, Lowry, Joynes and Nance, all experienced men

from last year’s squad, are in the race for berths on
the Varsity five, with Lowdon, McKinney, Homer,
Spencer, Jones, Wood and Gordon in the running.
Missing will be Frank Urmey, captain of last year’s
five; missing will be his almost superhuman energy
and radiant fighting spirit. Present will be Babe
Spotts, all-round athlete, able pivot man, sensational
shot, cool thinker and captain of the 1928 quintet.

Last Year’s Score

Date Opponent Place Opp. W. & L.
Dec. 105 Maryan i k,n se a ee ee. there 44 oe
Dec 20— Catmetc U2... a there 45 a3
Dee gia er. ee .. there (no game)
Jan. SOW ater 8 es es eee... home 26 44
Jan OW ee oe ee ee hs home 26 34
Jan. 1S re es ees Se home oo 34
Jan ee a eee home oS 39
Jat 28 Ai i ea home (no game)
Pep Sie there 34 36
Be 4 ea Huntington, W. Va. 48 29
Peb: 8—Dukeoy 27 wiles: Foo ei ea Ne a home 20 31
ee Ne er A there 40 46
Hep. 14° Ns C State 2 a eee ee home 41 34
Me te ee ee (Pend.) here 29 38
en 19 Seetice a  B home (no game)
ee i Veiner kf oe home , 20 B5
pe. 24-- Ge CV outnament 0 8.2. ota Ds es eee Atlanta, Ga.

Pep oS.  Toninanen 3 2 eee ee Atlanta, Ga.

 

 

THE ALUMNI

~ WINTER SPORTS SCHEDULES

Approximately all the Varsity winter sports schedules
have been completed. The basketball and ‘wrestling
schedules for the freshmen are yet incomplete.

The University of Alabama is scheduled to meet
the Generals’ quintet this year on January 28. This
will be the first contest that the Generals have had
with the Crimson Tide in this sport.

 

BOXING—VARSITY

Jan. 14—Virginia (H)
— Jan. 28—Open
Pel ye Po fa)
Feb. 17—Duke (T)
Feb. 18—N. C. (T)
Feb. 22—Army (T)
Fey 23-—-N. -Y.. University (1)

BOXING—FRESHMEN

Jan. 28—S. M. A. (H)
Feb 10--S,.M.. A. CT)
Fey ie =A aM. A, CL)

 

WRESTLING—VARSITY

Dec; 10—Richmond Y¥. MOC. A. (CT)
Jan. 16—V. P. I. (1)

Jan. 21—N. C. State (H)

Feb. 6—Virginia (T)

Feb. 13—Davidson (H)

Feb. 18—Duke (HH)

Feb. 25—Princeton. (T)

Feb. 27—Franklin—Marshall (T)

FOOTBALL FIRST PLAYED IN ENGLAND
WITH SKULLS OF VANQUISHED FOES >

(From Ring-tum Phi)

On the plains of England in the tenth century vic-
torious Danes, using the skulls of vanquished [ng-
lishmen, played the first known game of football. So
says Charlton G. Laird, professor of journalism at
Drake University, Des Moines. He has traced the
history of the game through the dim ages and says
that the hard fighting Danes tossed the grisly battle
mementoes around in the world’s first known grid-
iron contest.

Later on, pumpkins and gourds were used by farm-
ers of the British Isles. They carried the garden
truck through a line of opposing players in a game
similar to the present gridiron sport.

Laird devoted long and earnest effort to rounding
up his history of football and ran across facts never
collected before.

Captain John Smith of the Virginia colony, he says,
made.the first known reference to football in America.

MAGAZINE 11

The captain and other settlers frowned upon it as
“one of those sports in which English dudes indulge.”

By 1829, the colleges had taken up football and
the first Monday of the year was kriown as “bloody
Monday” at Harvard when a game was indulged in
as the annual class scrap. By 1860, the faculty ruled
the game too brutal and abolished it.

Gen. Philip H. Sheridan, of Civil War fame, ap-
peared on the delinquency list at the West Point
Military Academy for “kicking football in the vi-
cinity of barracks.”

The first football society of the United States was
organized by Gernt Smith Miller at Epes, Sargent
Dixwell’s School in Boston, the Drake professor dis-
covered.

The first intercollegiate game on record was held
between Rutgers and Princeton in 1869. There, the
value of rules was demonstrated, for each school
made its own regulations when playing on its own
field. ‘The records showed that Princeton won the
at-home game, but Rutgers, with its own rules and
on its own field, reversed the process the next time.

The first Yale-Princeton game in 1873 was held
up for an hour and a half while players scoured the
countryside for a ball.

 

BOXERS MEET VIRGINIA IN FIRST
MATCH JANUARY 14th

‘The boxing team under able tutelage is fast round-
ing into shape for the first match of the season, with
Virginia, here on January 14th.

The prospects for a championship team are the
brightest they have been in years, and the men are
working hard to insure a win over our bitter rivals,
not forgetting that Virginia won the Southern In-
tercollegiate championship last year.

Great improvement is being made every day and
the prospects will be greatly enhanced when Fitz-
patrick, Bailey, and Spotts are able to come out for
the heavyweight class. Spotts has his hands full at
present with the captaincy of the basketball team, and
Fitzpatrick and Bailey are recovering from injuries
suffered during the football season.

 

OLD GRADS AT RALLY

Five hundred alumni, students and_ visitors
gathered at the gym Friday evening preceding the

‘Virginia game. ‘There they heard Coach Herron

quietly thank the student body for their support dur-
ing the year, heard “Cy” Young—famed for winning
sixteen monograms at W. & L. and for being Cap-
tain of four major sports during his college career
(13—17); heard Bullet Joe Silverstein, famed line
plunger of °18; heard lusty cheering, the “Swing ;”
departed enthusiastic over prospects.

a ee

'
3
|
||
i
|

 

wo: ‘HE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Know Your Alma Mater

Many alumni of Washington and Lee, who have
left college as recently as five years ago, would
doubtless be surprised at the manner in which the unti-
versity has grown in recent years. In order that all
of our alumni, both old and young, may have some
idea of their alma mater ‘‘as she now is’, the informa-
tion below has been compiled by students and faculty
members in the Department of Education and Psy-
chology.

Organization

The university now has eleven administrative offi-
cers, including the President of the University, five
deans, the Treasurer, the Registrar, the Librarian,
the University Physician, and the Psychological Ex-
aminer. In addition to these there are eight adminis-
trative assistants, making a total administrative force
of nineteen, which is quite considerable.

The Faculty totals sixty-seven men, including six
which have already been mentioned above, distributed
throughout the various instructional ranks as follows:

Professors 24, Associate Professors 8, Assistant
Professors 17, Instructors 6, Student Assistants 11.
Total 67.

The University comprises four schools—the Aca-
demic School, School of Commerce, School of Applied
Science, and School of Law, each with its own dean.
In addition to Law there are twenty-one different de-
partments, which offer 201 different courses in all,
these courses being taught in 251 different sections.
Some of the courses are limited to one semester only,
but the large majority of them last throughout the
year.

Equipment

The number of buildings used for instructional pur-
poses and laboratories is now seven and in addition
there are three dormitories, the library, the chapel, the
Doremus gymnasium, and many professors’ residences
owned by the University. There are eight depart-
mental laboratories, an art gallery, a geological museum,
and a Lee Museum, the last-named being devoted to
Confederate relics. ‘The alumni headquarters form
one of the most recent additions to the University’s
equipment and it is hoped that an auditorium and a
student activities center will be erected in the next few
years. Money for these two buildings is sorely needed.

Finances

The total endowment of the University on March-

31, 1927, amounted to $1,373,850.79. To this should
be added the value of buildings, grounds, etc., amount-
ing to $1,649,240.05. Additional items make the total
assets amount to $3,133,740.98.

The income from all sources for the fiscal year 1926-
1927 was $320,121.03, from which should be deducted
total operating expenses of $304,800.63, leaving a
balance of $15,320.40 on hand for the year.

If the student body be considered in round numbers
as totalling 900 men, it requires an average investment
of $3,481.83 and an average annual expenditure of
$355.69 to educate a student. Of these amounts the
student usually furnishes no part of the endowment
(unless he makes a donation to the University later),
and he pays on the average only $197.95 per year for
his education at Washington and Lee. ‘This means
that the University must get from other sources
$157.74 annually for each student enrolled, who thus
becomes the recipient of a free gift of $630.96 in cold
cash for the four years which he spends in college.

Distribution of Students
Forty states and five foreign countries are repre-

.sented in the student body for 1927-28. Virginia leads

with 198 matriculates, Florida comes next with 57.
There are 46 from Tennessee, 44 from Alabama, 43
from Kentucky, 43 from New York, 43 from Texas,
and 41 from West Virginia. The foreign countries
represented in this year’s student roster are China,
Italy, Mexico, Panama and Porto Rico. The total
number of students registered October 1, 1927, was
870.
Denominations of Students

Presbyterian 272, Methodist 170, Episcopal 150,
Baptist 114, Hebrew 55, Christian 27, Roman Catho-
lic 24, Lutheran 16, Congregational 15, Christian
Science 12, Reformed 6, Anglican 1, Brethren 1, Com-
munity 1, Protestant 1, Unitarian 1, Zion Reformed
1, Non-members 6. ‘Total 874.

Degrees Applied for by Seniors
Civil Engineer 1, Master of Arts 5, Bachelor of
Laws 23, Bachelor of Arts 50, Bachelor of Science
11, Bachelor of Science in Commerce 40. ‘Total 130.

Professions Chosen by Students

Law 254, Business 110, Medicine 72, Engineering
46, Banking 31, Journalism 29, Teaching 16, Chemistry |
12, Ministry 11, Accounting 10, Broker 9, Textile 6,
Insurance 6, Real Estate 6, Contractor 4, ‘Tobacco 4,
Architect 3, Lumber 3, Consular Service 3, Oil 3,
Planter 2, Manufacturer 2, Forestry 2, Public Utilities
1, City Manager 1, Jobber. 1, Quarying 1, Unde-
cided 215. ‘Total 863.

- Professions of Parents
Merchant 103, Lawyer 45, Physician 45, Banker 37,
Salesman, etc. 36, Engineer 29, Real Estate 28, Lum-
ber 27, Insurance 22, R. R. 20, Farmer 19, Teaching
19, Government 17, Minister 17, Manufacturer 15,
Wholesaler 15, Contractor 14, Retired 14, Broker 13,
Oil 12, Pharmacy 10, Planter 10, Dentist 7, Jobber /,
Textile 7, Judge 6, Coal 5, Publisher 4, Mortician 3,
Tobacco 3, Miscellaneous 35. ‘Total 863.
Yours for a greater Washington and Lee,
WitLtiaM M. Brown, 714.

©)

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Queries

PRESIDENT SMITH INSTITUTES STUDY
OF CURRICULUM

Feeling that the curriculum requirements should
be changed and corrected to meet modern student de-
mands and to more adequately prepare the student
for specialized work in after life, Prestdent Henry
Louis Smith has directed faculty and student atten-
tion to this condition and to the requirements of other
colleges and universities.

He has directed the following questions in this re-
gard to alumni:

_ (December, 1927)

1. The only general four-year degree now offered
is A.B., with its ancient requirements in foreign syn-
tax and pure math.

Why no general B.S.?

2. Group I, foreign language, includes seven lan-
guages and a total of fifty-two semester-courses of-
fered. :

Yet every student seeking any non-vocational four-
year college training here must take a minimum of
twenty-four to thirty semester hours, viz.. four to five
years of continuous study, in this small group.

3. Group II includes the English language, spoken
and written, and its vast literature, with thirteen other
subjects, offering over 130 semester-courses in his-
tory, politics, sociology, education, commerce, finance,
philosophy, religion, etc., etc.

Yet the only requirements for a “liberal” A. B. de-
gree in this group are one elementary year in English
Composition and only eighteen semester hours, three
one-year courses, in all the rest.

4. Group IIT includes Mathematics and seven differ-
ent sciences with six laboratories, offering 109 semes-
ter-courses. The requirements for all students are
one year of college Mathematics and only eighteen se-
mester-hours of all the natural sciences.

Considering the practical importance to every lead-
ing American of biology, chemistry, electricity, meteor-
ology, and mechanics, upon which our daily health and
work depend, should trigonometry cut all the rest down
to eighteen semester-hours? Why not let the student se-
lect those which best suit his individual purposes,
powers, and prospective life-work ?

5. Why should every student be forbidden to take
public speaking during his first or freshman year?

6. Do not the very numerous and arbitrary “pre-
requisites,” now imposed by individual teachers,
harmfully limit a desirable elective freedom? Why
not let these “prerequisites” be in most cases only

 

PrEsIDENT Henry Louis Situ
“Why No General B.S.?”

 

 

“advised”? or “recommended,” instead of being made
compulsory ¢

7. The excessive foreign syntax and Math. require-
ments for the only cultural or general degree now
given, (A. B.), practically destroy the School of Jour-
nalism, and make it almost impossible for Y. M. C.
A. or other modern social workers, public-school
teachers, and most ministers to obtain the four-year
training in the social sciences and English and pub-
lic speaking they ought to take towards their degree.
If the foreign language minimum were placed at one
or two years and the trigonometry made an elective,
would not all these and scores of others be able to
choose a more valuable, a wiser, and a more individ-
ually profitable four-year undergraduate course than
is now available to them.

JOHN’ PP) (BUDDY) AYLMER 25) 33 guy ern-
ployed as salesman for Steves Sash and Door Com-
pany, San Antonio, Texas, in Houston territory. He
was married in August, 1927, to Miss Sallie King Hop-
kins, of Wallder, Texas.

 

 

 

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

They Came Back!

The following alumni came back for the Virginta—
W. & L. game, November 5th, and registered at
Alumni Headquarters:

Graham Robinson, ’70, Lexington, Va.; Wm. R.
Allen, ’92, Buchanan, Va.; Hale Houston, 92, Lex-
ington, Va.; Wm. C. Martin, 92, Martinsburg, W.
Va.; Clifford Sperow, ’92, Martinsburg, W. Va.;
Judge J. Fisher, ’93, Sutton, W. Va.; W. H. Keister,
04, Harrisonburg, Va.; John Preston, ’95, Lexington,
Va Hl. HH. Varimore, 96, St. Lous, Mo.; ©. C.
Reeves, 97, Pulaski, Va.; Dr. B. M. Rosebro, ’97,
Richmond, Va.; L. R. Holmes, 00, Philadelphia, Pa. ;
James M. Preston, ’00, Lewisburg, W. Va.; W. W.
Glass, ’01, Winchester, Va.; Dr. Wm. Allan, ’02, Char-
lotte N. 2 A. L. Burger, 02, Lynchburg, Va, Dr.

J. Morrison Hutcheson, 02, Richmond, Va.; EF. a

Preston, 02, Charlotte, N. C.; A..K. Fletcher, Jr., ’03,
Harrisonburg, Va.; A. MacD. Smith, ’03, Bramwell,
Wo Ve.. Ro A. Ruff, 03, Elkhorn, W..Va.; W. EH.
Wilson, ’04, Charleston, W. Va.; J. M. B. Gill, ’05,
Petersburg, Va.; J. D. Hobbie, Jr., °05, Roanoke, Va. ;
C. N. Campbell, 06, Martinsburg, W. Va.; J. Howard

Cather, 06, Winchester, Va.; Prof. L. J. Desha, ’06,

Lexington, Va.; Milton Herman, ’06, Danville, Va.;
FE. B. Roeser, ’06, Montgomery, W. Va.; J. Robt.
Switzer, ’06, Harrisonburg, Va.; A. E. Griffith, ’07,
Big Stone Gap, Va.; L. A. McMurran, ’07, Newport
News, Va.. 1. &. Wyesor, 0/7, Pulaski, Va; A. HH.
Chandler, 08, Baltimore, Md.; T. R. Cather, ’08,
Winchester, Va.; Dozier A. DeVane, 08, Washington,

-D. C.; Louis S. Epes, ’08, Blackstone, Va.; Robert

Glass, ’08, Lynchburg, Va.; FE. Clyde Hoge, ’08, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio; J. M. Moore, ’08, Lewisburg, W. Va.;
Earle K. Paxton, ’08, Lexington, Va.; Geo. F,. Penn,
Jr., ’08, Kingsport, Tenn.; Hunter J. Phlegar, ’08,
Christiansburg, Va.; Ray Robinson, ’08, Winchester,
Va.; Brown Truslow, ’08, Charleston, W. Va.; E. C.
Caffrey, 09, Fast Orange, N. J.; Jas. R. Caskie, ’09,
Lynchburg, Va.; Rev. J. W. Claudy, ’09, Pittsburgh,
Pa.; S. M. Engelhardt, ’09, Montgomery, Ala.; 5. N.
Hoshour, ’09, Staunton, Va.; W. L. Lord, ’09, Rich-
mond, Va.; Rayford W. Alley, ’10, New York City;
F..C.. Bedimger, 10, Boydton, Va.; Re A. Werr,, “10,
Marietta, Ohio; Irwin P. Graham. ’10, Cooleemee, N.
Co dpe Fy, B®. Uantz,, 10, Blacksville, W. Va. 2.
H. Leap, ’10, MaGaheysville, Va.; Walter A. Mc-
Donald, ’10, Cincinnati, Ohio; Laurence C. Witten, ’10,
Cincinnati, Ohio; J. Nevin Kilmer, ‘11, Martinsburg,
W. Va.; J..G. Johnston, °11; Jack Martin, ’11, Suffolk,
Va.; W. P. Thurston, ’11, Richmond, Va.; Nelson
Bell, 12, Vsingkiangsu, China; john L.. Crist, 712,
Damascus, Va.; T. W. Fred, ’12, Chattanooga, Tenn. ;
Brooks Mell, ’12, Atlanta Ga.; F. B. Oates, ’12, Ashe-
ville, N. C.; D. B. Owen, °12, Doylesville, Va.; Wm.

L. Webster, ’12, Schenectady, N. Y.; James T. Wood-

~ ward, 712, Columbia, S$. C.; Judge A. C. Buchanan, ’13,

Tazewell, Va.; Geo. H. Cone, °13, Richmond, Va.;
Philip P, Gibson, 913, Huntimeton, W.. Va.;. Carter
Glass, Jr., 713, Lynchburg, Va.; Warren Helphenstein,
13, Chevy Chase, Md.; Posie J. Hundley, ’13, Chat-
ham, Va.; Thos. S. Kirkpatrick, ’13, Lynchburg, Va. ;
Richard B. Laughran, *13, Asheville, N. C.; Judge J.
T. Rothrock, 13, Jackson, Tenn.; Maynard B. Smith,
13, Atlanta, Ga.; W. Gray Womble, ’13, Norfolk, Va.;
Dr. John W. Baylor, ’14, Baltimore, Md.; Wm. M.
Brown, 714, Lexington, Va.; Jerry A. Burke, °14, ap-
pomattox, Va.; J. Allison Cooper, ’14, Henderson,
N. ©: Ho S. Dance: “147 Roanoke, Val: Bo Pay,
14, Abingdon, Va.; L. R. Graybill, Jr., °14, Wilming-
ton, Del.; Robt. T. Hobson, 714, Louisville, Ky.; F. V.
Kellner, °14, Greenville, Miss.; Ernest Kellner, Jr.,
14, Greenville, Miss.; P. A. Laughlin, 14, Wheeling,
W. Va.; 5. ©, Latiehlin, jr.j 714, Wheeling, Wo Va. ;
T. C. McCallie, 714, Chattanooga, Tenn.; C. FE. Wom-
ble, 914, Norfolk, Va.; M. S. Barrow, ’15, Alberta,
Va.; H. B. Glass, ’?15, Lynchburg, Va.; Leon W. Har-
ris, (15, Anderson, S. C.; Lawrence B. Wales, (13,
Norfolk, Va:; W. A. Yancey, ’15, McGaheysville, Va. ;
Parker A. Burrman, ’16, Washington, D. C.; Robert
M. Curtis, 16, Roanoke, Va.; Dr. Wiley D. Forbus, 716,
Baltimore, Md.; Harrison P. Magruder, °16, Wood-
stock, Va.>'H. 1. Piter; 16, Winchester, Va.; [7 Shir-
ley Riley, ’16, Roanoke, Va:; L. L. Shirey, ’16, Rich-
mond, Va-; F,.. P.. Barrow, (17, Alberta, Va: Allein
Beall, Jr., °17, Helena, Ark.; Wm. R. Burton, ’17,
New York City; David A. Falk, ’17, Tampa, Fla.; J.
S. Hansel, 717, McDowell, Va.; E. L. Hix, ’17, Niagara
Falls, N: ¥.:; Jno. R. Mahoney, Jr., 17, Bristol, Va.;
John J. D. Preston, “17, Charleston, Wo va.” &.
Sanders, *17, Bristol, Va.; Cy Young, °17, Helena,
Ark.; L. D. Arnold, ’18, Winchester, Va.; J. Kent
Barly, 18, Charlotte, C. H., Wa. WV. S) Hoplias, Ir,
18 Lexington, Va,;. Mi WW. axton, Ir, 18) lex-
ington, Va GO. Ml: .Stumpi, 18; . Richmond, . Va. ;
Jesse W. Benton, °19, Danville, Va.; J. S. Ed-
mondson, °19, Memphis, Tenn.; F. H. Wissler,
“AY, Mt. Jackson, Va.) R.. ME Cabell,..’20,. Covine-
ton, Va.; W.-C. Lane, 20, Hagerstown, Md.;°J. M.
Warren, ’20, Harrisonburg, Va.; Jno. Bell, ’21, Tampa,
Fla.; C. 1. Booth, Jr. 21, Danville, Va. > H. G..Pank-
houser, “21, Lexmeton, Va.; Walter’ tdindry, 21,
Hopewell, Va.; Carleton E. Jewett, °21, Richmond,
Va; Win. B. Patterson, "21, Staunton, Va.; RM.
Copenhaver, ’22, Bristol, Va.; J: Richard Gill, 722,
Portsmouth, Va.; R. D. Maben, Jr., 22 & ’27, Black-
stone, Va.; Harvey Wilkinson, ’22, Charlotte, N. C.;
E. P. Crockett, 723, Wytheville, Va.; L. W. Davis, ’23,
Rural Retreat, Va.; Wm. L. Leap, ’23, Charlottesville,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

W. & L. HAS BEST DRESSED STUDENTS

In a style study undertaken by the Fairchild Uni-
versity Style Survey, compiled for the Daily News
Record, Washington and Lee University was cited as
being the best dressed school in the South, and as the
criterion of dress for that section of the country.
Throughout the magazine, W. & L. was mentioned
as favoring or disfavoring the divers apparel which
go to make up the well dressed college man.

Concerning the influence of the Lexington univer-
sity on style the Survey said, “At the University of
North Carolina, merchants reported that they had had
some calls for the derby from students who reported
that they are wearing ‘em now at W. & L.”

It would also seem from the following statement that
the “Beau Brummels”’ of Lexington intend to make
themselves the originators of new fashions; ‘The de-
mand for a shirt which would set much lower on the
neck than the usual variety led one of the leading
stores at Washington and Lee University to have one
made up.” The Survey indicates that W. & L. tends
toward the conservative in clothes, favoring quiet colors
and unobstrusive cut. In both neckwear and_ socks
the Survey mentions that there is a growing demand
for solid or subdued colors.

To those who have been concerned over the large-
knotted ties that greet one’s gaze on the campus, it
may be interesting to note what Fairchild’s says: “At
W. & L. students are trying to buy this wide, heavy
variety, and in lieu of the real article are tying their
regular ties in such a manner as to secure a large
knot.”

The Fairchild Survey is the most complete style
study of universities ever undertaken. The co-opera-
tion of 28 university professors was enlisted, and at
most institutions the work was handled by the school
of commerce, the Survey placing Dr. G. D. Hancock,
Dean of the School of Commerce, among those who
had given valuable aid in compiling the study.

 

 

Va.; J. W. McDonald, ’23, Memphis, Tenn.; R. W.
Royston, ’23, Boyce, Va.; S. B. Avis, ’24, Washington,
D. C.; Saml. E. Gaylor, ’24, Wardell, Va.; Edwin H.
Howard, ’24, Lexington, Va.; Jno. T. McVay, °24,
Huntington, W. Va.; C. N. Minnich, ’24, Bristol, Va. ;
Chas. O. Tutwiler, ’24, Welch, W. Va.; R. G. Whit-
tle, ’24, Roanoke, Va.; C. H. Wilson, ’24, Danville,
Var, i. B. Davenport, Ir., (25; Chattanooga, Tenn. ;
W. C. Baxter, ’26, Alexandria, Va.; L. O. Fagan, ’26,
Roanoke, Va.; Robt. P. London, Jr., ’26, Johnson City,
Tenn; CU. B, Carr, 27, Boyce, Va.; Geo: D. Conrad,
27, Harrisonburg, Va.; Roy $. Nichols, ’27, Norfolk,
Va.; W. M. Pope, ’27, Richmond, Va.; W. Goodridge
sale, jr., "27, Welch, W. Va.; “Curly” Sanders, ’27,
Durham, N. C.; Euc Reeves, ’27, Atlanta, Ga.; G. W.

Summerson, ’27, Portsmouth, Va.; J. M. Douglass, |

Aldie, Va.; Grasty Crews, Danville, Va.

PROFESSOR BAUER FEATURES THE
CAROL SERVICE

A charming entertainment was given under the aus-
pices of the English department in Lee Chapel, Dec.
17th, in its presentation of an evening of Christmas
carols. The program was directed by Dr. F. F.
Shannon, and the atmosphere was in keeping with the
Christmas spirit.

Prof. M. G. Bauer’s reading of Dickens’ “Christmas
Carol” was the main feature of the evening. The
reading was given in two parts, while the Glee Club
sung carols between readings.

Written in the charming and pleasing style of Dick-
ens, the “Christmas Carol” touched the hearts of the
entire audience. Three carols were sung by the Glee
Club, with the accompaniment of Prof. Shelley on the
organ. ‘The songs were in harmony with the de-
velopment of Dickens’ story.

The chapel seemed to radiate with sincere Christ-
mas spirit. Cedars and various evergreens were ar-
tistically arranged on the platform and_ throughout
the interior. ‘Three white candles in each window
sent out a warm greeting to the wavward wanderer.
On the platform, nine red candles burned with a soft
yellow glow that lent beauty and charm to the atmos-
phere. Portraits, pictures and Confederate flags added
color to the scene. Only the soft light from the
candles were used. A faint scent of cedar prevailed
in the chapel, and gave harmony to the background.

Students, townspeople, faculty members, and V. M.
I. officers comprised the audience that filled the chapel
to its capacity. More than 400 enjoyed the carols,
which suggested the approaching Yuletide.

The program for the evening was:

Organ prelude—Prof. Shelley

“It Came Upon a Midnight Clear’—Glee Club

“O Come, All Ye Faithful’—Glee Club

Reading of first part of Dickens’ “Christmas Carol’—
Prof. Bauer.

“Good King Wencelas’—Glee Club.

Reading of second part of Dickens’ “Christmas Carol”

Prof. Bauer.

“God Rest You, Merry Gentlemen’’—Glee Club

“O Little Town of Bethlehem”’—Audience.

Organ postlude—Prof. Shelley.

 

V. M. I. CLASS OUTLAWS HAZING

At a meeting of the first class of cadets at the Vir-
ginia Military Institute, a resolution was adopted al-
most unanimously prohibiting any “laying of hands
on” new cadets in the future. The action of the first
class followed two conferences between officers of
the first class and General Cocke, at which this deci-
sion was reached and a spirit of co-operation estab-
lished in cutting out hazing.

 

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FANCY DRESS THEME TO BE
“IN BOOKLAND”

(From Ring-tum Phi)

Famous characters of fiction will grace Doremus
gymnasium in the 1928 Fancy Dress ball, according
to Professor C. FE. L. Gill, director of the dance. “In
Bookland” will be the theme of the ball and the
dancers will be costumed as characters from book-
land. David Copperfield will be there, as well as
Robinson Crusoe and probably Robin Hood,. Dr.
Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, Elmer Gantry and a host of
others. The Rover boys are expected, with Dan
Baxter lurking in the background. The different
characters will be limited in number to avoid too
much similarity. |

According to plans now being worked out, the
twenty-second of these famous balls will be one of
the most elaborate ever seen here. ‘The 1928 Fancy
Dress ball is the sixth under direction of Mr. Gill.
The first ball given in the Doremus gymnasium was
the Fancy Dress ball of 1915. Since 1922 the dance
has been directed by Mr. Gill and has come to be
known, according to the New York Times, as “the
outstanding social event of the South.” In the opin-
ion of many, this is not an exaggeration and the Wash-
ington and Lee Fancy Dress is an object of much in-
terest throughout the country.

Fancy Dress will come this year on January 31st.
The Junior Prom will be given on January 30th, the
last day of the first semester examinations. A two-
day holiday, Tuesday and Wednesday, will be given.
Several orchestras are being considered, none having
been signed up yet.

ed

PLANS MADE FOR PEACE MEMORIAL
HERE IN UNIVERSITY

‘There is a movement under way to establish a Peace
Memorial of international good will at Washington
and Lee. This will consist of a collection of valuable
and unique flags of different nations, photos of im-
portant international people, and books of various
languages.

E.. Earl Hoffer of West Long Branch, N. J., is as-
sisting Dr. Wm. M. Brown, ’15, in this work and has
been in Lexington previous to going to the University
of Chattanooga where he dedicated a similar memorial
there on Armistice Day. A large number of donations
have already been received from government officials,
state governors, and foreign nations.

It has not yet been decided where the Memorial will
be temporarily located, but it will have permanent
quarters in the basement of the proposed new audi-
torium. The Memorial will be a wonderful display,
and a suggestion to visitors of international good will.

STUDENT ORCHESTRA TO PLAY IN
EUROPE

It is a certainty now that the name of Washington
and Lee University will be well advertised in Euro-
pean travelling and social circles during the summer
months of 1928. This became a definite fact when
the Southern Collegians recently signed contracts with
the French Steamship Line for the months of June,
July and August.

Ten men will compose the band. The orchestra
is fast rounding into shape now, and practice through-
out the year will bring to perfection a dance orchestra
of a high degree in skill, melody and musical attain-
ment. ‘The personnel of the orchestra now plays 30
different instruments and boasts of three high class
individual entertainers.

Classical concerts will be given, as well as popular
music, Jazz, dance and song hits.

From nine to ten weeks will probably be spent in
Furope, with engagements being filled at Deauville,
Monte Carlo, the Riviera, and many famous water-
ing places and social centers in Furopean countries,
capitals, cities and provinces. A two weeks’ stay in
Paris will also be on the program of the local collegi-
ans. Here the band will make exclusive records for
the Pathe Company of Europe. Both classical and
popular numbers will be recorded. Records made for
this company in the past by Washington and Lee
orchestras have proved unusually popular, and it is
felt that the new ones will repeat the successes.

The orchestra will return some time late in Au-
gust, being booked to play on shipboard for the re-
turn trip to America also.

 

FLOYD BLACK AT W. & L. ASSEMBLY

An assembly of all students was held in the Dore-
mus Gymnasium Saturday, December 10th, to hear
President Floyd H. Black of the American College
of Sophia, on the subject of the Problems of the
Near East.

President Smith, introducing the speaker said that
it was hoped that this address would be a factor in
broadening the sympathies of the American students
to a better understanding of internationalism. The
speaker honored the example of R. FE. Lee. He stated
that he represented six Near East colleges, including
the Roberts College of Constantinople, which have
long been of great influence in the section bounded

— by Egypt the Black Sea and the Danube River. In

the past hundred years the many countries in this sec-
tion have won their independence from Turkey.

The chief characteristic of these countries is na-
tionalism. There is a growing interest in education
for all classes. ‘Turkey has passed a bill for free
primary education in the whole republic. Severe war
losses were suffered in all the Near East.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

GYMNASIUM SCENE OF MUCH ACTIVITY

Doremus gymnasium is at present the scene of con-
centrated activity in every branch of indoor sports.
From three until six each afternoon its walls house a
riotous mob, engaged in all forms of activity afforded
by the university. ,

Varsity and freshman basketball squads are work-
ing until late in the afternoon. ‘This occupies nearly
all of the available floor space, and that which is not
used for basketball is taken up by men working on
the pulley-weights. Upstairs, at one end, both Var-
sity and freshman boxers are training under Coach
Bateman, while the other end is occupied by the
wrestlers. There is always the rapid pound of feet
as the track men practice.

Handball seems more popular this year than it has

been since its introduction. Every court is occupied,
generally by four men, during the entire afternoon.
The courts have recently been painted white to aid
the vision of the players.

In the basement, swimmers are busily engaged in
strenuous practice. All over the building are men
who come out in connection with no particular branch
of athletics, and these men are busy with miscellane-
ous types of exercise.

 

H. E. LITCHFORD TELLS A NEW STORY OF
LEE’S OLD HORSE, “TRAVELER”

H. EF. Litchford, well known banker of Richmond,
tells a new story that he heard in Lexington while
visiting his daughter, Mrs. Verbon EF. Kemp and his
little grandson, Verbon F., Jr., concerning the death
of “Traveler,” the famous horse which General Rob-
ert E. Lee rode during the Civil War. Memories and
stories of General Lee are widespread in Lexington,
the home of the leader of the Confederacy after the
War.

According to the story “Traveler”? was the only
horse to die on a feather bed so far as is known. ‘The
horse lived some years after the death of General
Lee, and shared some of the love and devotion that the
‘people of the South paid to his master. When it be-
came known that the horse was sick all of the horse
doctors available were called in and there were many
anxious Lexington citizens to offer suggestions.

“Something ought to be done for the poor horse
to make him comfortable,” one man exclaimed, and
he sent a feather bed from his home for ‘l'raveler’’
to rest on and it was on the feather bed that he died
that night. (From the Raleigh, N. C., Times).

 

S. N. HOSHOUR, ’09, writes from Staunton, Va.:
“T am enclosing my check for $4.00 for subscription
to the ALUMNI Macazine. I find the magazine very
interesting.”

SOUTHERN COLLEGIAN MAY BE REVIVED

Interest in things literary gave way to war fervor
in 1916-17. The Southern Collegian, oldest student
publication at Washington and Lee, withered. The
literary societies became anaemic. A general revival
of these two campus institutions has not yet been suc-
cessfully wrought—tho the literary society has_ be-
come more animated of late.

Now it is proposed to revive the Southern Col-
legian and to make it the outstanding college hterary
publication in the South. Stimulated by the Gilliam
(T. W. Gilliam, ’20) prizes for Drama, Fiction and
Verse, interest in things literary has mounted on
the campus. Favorable support to the revival move-
ment is being given by Dr. E. F. Shannon, head of.
the English department, by Prof. Fitzgerald Flour-
noy, 21, Oxonian and orator extraordinary and by
Prof. Frank J. Gilliam, °17, latest addition to the
English department staff.

It is proposed that the revived publication include
contributions from both faculty and students and that
alumni be asked to write for it. Thus it will be a
thoroughly representative Washington and Lee pub-
lication. Alumni interested in this most creditable
work and willing to subscribe to it should communi-
cate with Dr. Shannon.

 

DONATIONS TO THE LAW LIBRARY

My dear Mr. Kemp: |

In a recent number of the ALUMNI NEws you were
kind enough to include a communication to the
alumni and other friends of the Law School to the
effect that an attempt was being made to acquire for
the law library a complete set of the codes and stat-
utes of all the states, and suggesting that donations
of such material would be welcome. ‘This is to in-

form you that the following alumni have responded:

Mr. Martin Caraballo, 09, Tampa, Fla.; Mr. R. B.
Jones, 715, Atlanta, Ga.; Mr. J. T. Woodward, ’17,
Columbia, S. C.; Mr. M. W. Paxton, ’21, Lexing-
ton, Va.; Hon. R. S. McClintic, ’98, Monroe City,
Mo. Of course, each gift has been acknowledged
personally.

The collection is still far from complete and any
alumnus or other friend who is interested in helping
to complete it can get any information he desires
about our needs by writing to you or to the Dean of
the Law School.

Very sincerely yours,
W. H. More,tanpn, DEAN.

 

MARRIED. Hugh R. Hawthorne, 710, and Miss
Margueritte Cartwright of Huntsville, Ala., were mar-
ried on November 29th, They will make their home
in New York City.

 

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Rector Lucian Cocke Dies

Lucian Howard Cocke, outstanding for many ‘years
in Roanoke as a lawyer, business man and civic leader,
died at his home on November 14th, after an illness
that dated from early last June. Mr. Cocke was born
at Hollins College, March 27, 1858. He was the son ot
Charles Lewis and Susannah Virginia (Pleasants)
Cocke, and a descendant of Richard Cocke, who came
from Leeds, England, prior to 1636 and settled at
“Bremo”’ in Henrico county.

Lucian Cocke was a student at Richmond College
from 1873 to 1876 and was graduated with the de-

gree of A. B. at Washington and Lee in 1878, and

with the degree of LL.B. at the college of law of the
University of Virginia in 1881. In the latter year
he was admitted to the Virginia Bar and began the
practice of his profession here. Mr. Cocke was the
last mayor of the town of Roanoke and upon its in-
corporation as a city by act of January 31, 1884, he
continued in office as the city’s first mayor until the

summer of 1884. After serving as its first mayor he

was elected by the city council as Roanoke’s first city
solicitor, serving in this office from 1884 to 1886.

From 1884 to 1895, Mr. Cocke was associated with
Colonel John FE. Penn in the law firm of Penn and
Cocke and from 1896 to 1900 with William A. Glas-
gow, ’86, in the firm of Cocke and Glasgow. He
became consulting attorney for the Norfolk and West-
ern Railway in 1904 and later its general attorney,
holding this position at the time of his death.

In addition to his professional activities as one of
the state’s foremost attorneys, he was vice-president
of the First National Exchange Bank, rector of
Washington and Lee University and president of
Hollins College, which institution his father, Charles
H. Cocke, founded in 1846 and for 55 years person-
ally supervised its operation.

Representing the University as honorary pallbear-
ers at the funeral were Dr. Henry Louis Smith, Dean
H. D. Campbell, 82, P. M. Penick, ’96, Harrington
Waddell, ’96, and Verbon EF. Kemp, 719.

 

 

DR. ROBERT GLASGOW, ’75, UNIVERSITY
PHYSICIAN, DIES AT HOME’ IN
LEXINGTON

Dr. Robert Glasgow, ’75, university physician, died
at his home on South Jefferson Street, Lexington,
following a prolonged illness from complications which
had kept him an invalid since last August.

Dr. Glasgow was born in Fincastle, June 6, 1857,
the son of William A. and Elizabeth Speers Glasgow.
His early years were spent at that place, while his
academic education was secured at Washington and
Lee. He later graduated in medicine at Virginia,
practicing at Fincastle for a short time, but moving
to Lexington in 1887, where he practiced until his
recent illness. |

At one time he was president of the state board of
medical examiners, and was also former health off-
cer for Lexington. During the war he was surgeon
with the W. & L. unit of the Student’s Army Train-

ing Corps, and had been university physician for the .

past five years. He was a member of Delta Kappa
Epsilon fraternity, and a director in the Rockbridge
National Bank, of Lexington. For years he had been
actively identified with the local Presbyterian church,
and at the time of his death was an elder in the church
organization.

Four children survive, one son, Robert, ‘OO, living
in Charlotte, N. C.; Mrs. T. J. Sanford, of Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.; Mrs. Dean Owens, of Rome, Ga., and
Mrs. C. H. Patterson, wife of the acting Y secretary,
on furlough from missionary work in China. Three
half brothers are also living, these being Dr. Mc-

Pheeters Glasgow, ’70, of Nashville, Tenn.; Joe Glas-
gow, 791, of Staunton, and W. A. Glasgow, ’86, a
practicing attorney of Philadelphia.

 

OBITUARY

DIED. Judge Rhydon Call, ’78, United States dis-
trict judge of the southern district of Florida since
1913, died at his home in Jacksonville, Florida on De-
cember 15th. : |

DIED. Haviland Stevenson, ’84, publisher of text-
books, died in Arlington, Mass. on December Ist, after
a lingering illness since July. Huis death removes from
the educational publishing field one of its best known
and most respected members. For over a quarter of
a century he had been identified with Silver, Burdett
and Company, and in his opportunities for wide con-
tacts he drew countless friends to him from among the
teachers, educators, and publishers of the country.

DIED.: Col. John’S. Parke, U. 3. A., retired, died
at Portland, Ore., on August 19th. :

DIED. Harry Otey Snyder, ’90, died on August
19th in Lewisburg, West Va.

 

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, 718, practicing law in
Washington, D. C. returned on a visit to Lexington
recently with his wife and little son. They were at the
home of Dean and Mrs. H. D. Campbell where Mrs.
FE. D. Campbell remained for a month’s visit after her
husband’s return to Washington.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

William McChesney Martin, A. B., 95, Bie cahicesd What He Was
Taught at W. & L.

William McChesney Martin returned to his home
in Lexington, Ky., with an A. B. from W. & L. He
intended to enter the Harvard Law School, but took
and passed the teacher’s examinations under the Super-
intendent of Public Schools in Lexington instead.

Then opportunity beckoned in another direction.
He was urged to become secretary to his uncle who
was Superintendent of Terminals of the L. N. R. R.
in St. Louis. Equipped with some early high school
instruction in shorthand he “studied up” on it, took
practice dictation from his mother and accepted the
job.

It was in this position that Mr. Martin discovered
the need for disciplined thinking—an unconscious
habit formed as a W. & L. student. He awakened to
the fact that though he was taking dictation satis-
factorily he did not assimilate the content of the let-
ters he was to transcribe. As a result he studied the
correspondence received and was able to place a type-
written answer before the superintendent for signa-
ture along with the incoming letter. These answers
were generally satisfactory and relieved his uncle
from much detail work.

Naturally promotion came and with it the decision

to abandon railroad work as a profession. On his ac-
cumulated savings Mr. Martin entered the St. Louis

Law School, a branch of Washington University. At
the same time he served as instructor in English Clas-
sics at Smith Academy, another branch of the Uni-
versity. He finished his law course in 1900.

Instead of entering the practice of law Mr. Martin
became connected with the Mississippi Valley Trust
Company to take care of probate work in its Trust
Department. Again he started to study. The meth-
ods of foreign banks and their relation to the bank-
ing affairs of this country claimed his interest. He
became interested in the National Monetary Com-
mission which had reported with full discussion such
institutions as the Bank of France and the Bank of
Germany in 1908.

His knowledge thus obtained brought him national
recognition. He was called upon to speak on _ the
Aldrich Bill, and as the Federal Reserve Act emerged
he was engaged to write and speak on it often during
its formative period. He attributes his ability to
meet those opportunities to the experience gained as
a member of the Graham—Lee Literary Society and
as editor of the Southern Collegian.

In his own company his legal work had expanded
into general banking affairs. Promotions came. He
was Vice-President when on September 30, 1914, he
was appointed Director and Chairman of the Board

 

WirttaAmM McCursney Martin, 95

“__Carried Federal Reserve in his brief case”

 

 

and Federal Reserve agent of the Federal Reserve
Bank of St. Louis. It became his duty to start the
bank. For several weeks he could carry all of the
records of the bank home in a brief case for work at
night and the only vault was a safe deposit box. Com-
pare it with the Federal Reserve Bank of which he
is Governor today!

During the march of events Mr. Martin developed,
as a hobby, a talent shown as editor of the Southern
Collegian. Several stories and articles by him ap-
peared in newspapers and magazines. A novel “Shoes
of Iron” finished in the years immediately after
graduation, was published. He also taught courses
in practical banking and commercial law for a num-
ber of years in the American Institute of Banking
which he helped establish in St. Louis. |

At Washington and Lee Mr. Martin played right |
halfback for three years. Naturally he has watched
the development of the game from the old mass play

(Continued on page 43)

ST ee er ee ee a ns Se ae oe ee rin,

 

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Glimpses of the General Through the Eyes of a Boy

The name of General Lee, first, fell on the ears of
this boy when six years of age. His father had just
returned, to his home, near Lexington, from W. Va.
and spoke, to his son, about the masterly manner in
which General Lee had handled the troop and trans-
port problem in that Rich Mountain Campaign.

When Stonewall Jackson was buried, from the
Lexington Presbyterian Church, he went there with
his mother. He heard, then, of Lee’s remark that
Jackson had lost his left, while he had lost his right
arm. From that day until the end of the war Lee’s
name was a household word. In April 1865 the lad
was sitting in the little school house when two soldiers
came to the door saying that “General Lee had sur-
rendered at Appomattox the day before yesterday.”
The heart of the youth went out to the great leader,
as the curtain, which had hung, like a pall of gloom,
four long years, over him and his people, fell, and
the terrible tragedy in which he had played such a
splendid part ended.

Some time after the surrender, a solitary horseman
crossed the Blue Ridge, and entered Lexington by
the Whites Gap Road and the old Buena Vista Fur-
nace. That one of the greatest captains of all time
should, unheralded and unattended, enter this remote
country side made a sensation. As soon as he stopped
on the street to make an inquiry his “recognition”
was immediate. The small boys came running and
soon were busy extracting hairs from Travellers tail
as souvenirs. Thus, quietly, did he appear to do the
work which was to be the crown and glory of his il-
lustrious career.

Not long after the father and daughter, Miss Mil-

dred Lee, were familiar figures as they came along

the road, by the boy’s home, to an eminence on the
brow of the cliffs, above Maury river. He spoke as
they passed in low, quiet, tones with a word of kindly
greeting for the little fellow by the roadside.

The young soldiers returning from the army found
their mounts worn out, but rest and food soon re-
stored them. ‘These young men then appeared with
splendid horses. ‘lournaments became fashionable.
With their gay costumes, lances, and prancing steeds,
the middle ages seemed to have come again. One of
these tournaments was held at the Rockbridge Baths
where General Lee was a guest, at the time, with his
invalid wife. ‘The Queen was crowned on the lawn,
in front of the hotel, by one of his own cavalry men.
After the coronation the General approached the
queen who stood blushing, in her beauty, and was in-
troduced to her. He very modestly expressed his
great pleasure, declaring that she was the first queen to
whom he had ever been presented.

Jonathan Hughes a noted horse thief was sur-

prised, in a house, on the river not far from the boy’s
old home, but escaped with a slight wound. Elud-
ing his pursuers, for awhile, he was finally caught
and put in Jail in Lexington. So strong was the feel-
ing against him that a band of men entered the town
to lynch Hughes. They filled the Court House yard.
All were excited. Trouble was imminent. ‘The mob
determined. Just as they were about to rush the Jail,
at the door of which stood the-faithful-old-jailer
Perry. ‘There appeared on the scene, very quietly,
and without haste, their old General. As quietly he
moved among the men many of whom were his old
soldiers. In a short time, through his influence, the
mob was tamed, claws clipped and teeth extracted,
and the men had agreed to return to their homes.

When Valentine, the sculptor, came to Lexington
to model the bust for Lee’s statue, he did much of
the work, especially the sitting part, in a room on the
first floor of the Lexington, now the R. E. Lee, hotel.
There the boy saw the artist with the great soldier be-
fore him. Valentine evidently deeply interested in
what the General was, so quietly, saying.

The last time he was seen alive by these eyes was
when the boy entered Washington College. The
General was standing near the tree not far from the
chapel door. Very thoughtful he spoke to the Pro-
fessors as they arranged the details in connection with
the chapel service. He was most impressive in a
dark suit, soft black hat with his gray hair and beard.
That form and face, as he sat on the platform, are
ineffaceable and rise distinctly before him after all
these years. The vigil at the tomb fixed it forever.
When we looked upon his face again he lay in state
in his own little chapel. Wrapping his warriors cloak
about .him he had lain down to quiet dreams.

“Then from the dawn it seemed there came but faint’
As from beyond the limit of the world,
Like the last echo born of a great cry,
Sounds as if some fair city were one voice
“Around a king returning from his wars.”
“Washington and Lee has his ashes. ‘The world has

his fame.”

Emmerr W. McCorxk ir,

Rockbridge Baths,
Va.

erect

R. FE. MOORE, ’00, of Bluefield, W. Va., writes:
“Hard pickings under Republican Administration, but
glad to say, “The Wolf’ is on the outside and not in
yet. In the words of another: ‘IT ne’r will ask you
booty, I ne’r be your slave, But TIl swim the sea of
slaughter ‘Till I sink beneath the wave, etc.,’ or some-
thing to that effect.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

The All-Time W. & L. Eleven

As suggested in the May, 1927, issue of the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE various alumni responded with their
choices for members of a mythical all time W. & L.
football team. Votes were received from alumni as
far back as 1898; were tallied by points according to
the number of votes received for place on first, sec-
ond or third team.

The judges, “Bill” Streit, ’05, chairman, Coach
Forest Fletcher, and Alumni Secretary Verbon E.
Kemp (acting for Prof. R. G. Campbell who has been
ill for several months) picked the team according to
the votes cast, only deviating to place a player in his
proper position. This was necessary because play-
ers at tackle were voted for as guards and vice versa,
players at full and halfback were voted as quarter-
backs, etc. :

It is felt that the teams selected are representative,

that assembled today and given their old time play-

ing ability they could defeat any recent all-American
combination.

The votes for positions on the first team were unan-
imous for “Ted” Shultz, tackle and captain, and
for “Cy” Young and “Johnny” Barrett, halfbacks.
There was only one choice for a player other than
“Ty” Rauber at fullback and “Al” Pierotti at center.

First TRAM

Fullback “Ty” Rauber, ’26

FHalfbacks “Johnny” Barrett, °16
ty Young, “1/7

Quarterback “Bill” Raftery, °16
Center ‘Al’ Pierotti, °17
Guards “Fats” Miller, 14
“Pat” Osbourne, ‘09
Tackles | Ted Shultz (Capt.), °16
Lindsay Moore, ’21
Ends Kay Thomas, ’25

Kelly Francis, *13

Eddie Cameron, ’25

“Buck” Sweetland, ’16
“Monk” Maddox,

“Jiggs” Donahue, ’16
“Red” Hawkins, ’25.

Frank Scarry,

“Bob” Ignico, *17
Maynard Holt, ’26
“Buck” Miles, 715

“Babe, Spotts, 27
Paul: Larkin, ic

Every other player placed on the first team had a
large majority of the votes for his position and there
was little choice left to the judges.

In making up the second team there was a larger
number of players to choose from. Most of the old-
time players (from ’95 through ’05) were relegated
to the third team chiefly because few alumni of that
period voted, and because in the opinion of many the
style of football as played in recent years is so radi-
cally different that most of the men chosen were bet-
ter qualified for their positions from having played
on teams from 1910 to 1927. :

In addition to those chosen numerous votes were
received for “Cannon Ball” Beuhring and Flemming
Burke, fullbacks, for Joe Silverstein, “Shack” Bag-
ley and “Smut” Smith, halfbacks, for “Jimmy” Mad-
dox, and “Student” Frew, quarterbacks, “Red”
Moore, Frank Padgett and ‘Pat’ Collins at center,
Clovis Moomaw, “Tex” Bryan, “Hank” Rogers,
Oberlin and Larrick at guard, Turner Bethel and
“Daddy” Potts at tackle, and for “Ollie’ Daves,
“Jim” Izard, “Rube” Waddill, Ira Sims, “Pat” Ross,
Johnny Harrison and Wallace Muir on the ends.

The choices for first, second and third team _posi-
tions were as follows:

THIRD ‘TKAM
“Dutch” Alderson, ’08

“Gran” Campbell, ’98
“Bill” Strett, 03

Henry Wilson, ’24
“Tubby” Stone, ’06

Eid Bailey, ’20
“Horse fips. 27

Tex Tilson, ’25
“Pike” Johnson,

Ralph Daves, ’25
“Hi” Dow, 707

Skconp TEAM

 

 

W. & L. LOSES LAST GAME

Washington and Lee’s Generals lost their annual bat-
tle with Florida at Jacksonville, Florida, by a score
of 20 to 7. :

An aerial bombardment by the ’Gators with Van-
sickel, Florida end, doing the receiving, enabled the
Floridians to cross the Generals otherwise defended
goal in each of the last three periods of the game.

Two of Florida’s touchdowns were the result of
long passes from Crabtree, Gator quarterback, to

Vansickel, who also scored the third touchdown when
he intercepted a pass by Lott, General halfback.

Late in the final quarter the Generals began their
belated march to the ’Gators goal, when Brum-
baugh’s punt slid off to the right and went out of
bounds on Florida’s 30-yard line.

White, W. & L. fullback, carried the ball across
after Howe had plunged through right tackle for 13
yards on two plays. Lott drop kicked for the extra
point. |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2 Ne here wee ee
~ pamemnane :
| Lh
. a
= ae
cS cy
mS
ee
qe &
< = ee
& ~ 3S
I Sa
EF .
fd
= =
rR,
— =
ox
| 2
: Se
> S
1 - ;
ont Y
ogee
=
— :
= <—
Oo
a SD)
= qj
2
= 38
= ae oS
- be
_ = Gc
a
BH
oO
— A
te.
~ 8
ay
a
ao
eH
© oh
4 ee f C853 < aoe : ;
a RR RP ay
s ee : : , ee Bo eee
oe
faa) tS
a
a
“ot
Z,
Z,
:
Nw
AQ =,

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

 

 

 

 

- KELLEY FRANcIs, 714 Kay THomas, 725 LinpsAy Moors, ’21
End End : Tackle

 

 

 

 

 

GE I

 

 

 

 

“AL” Prerort1, °17 “Par” Osporne, ‘09 “Rats” Miner, 714
; Center Guard (deceased) Guard

   

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Two Kentucky Judges

W.H. Frexp, 91; Tuomas R. Gorpon, ’72.

Two sons of Washington and Lee were candidates
on the Democratic judicial ticket in the recent Ken-
tucky elections. They were Judge Wm. H. Field and
Thomas R. Gordon, both incumbents in the office for
which they were candidates. i

Of Judge Field, candidate for the Common Pleas
Branch, First Division, the “Party Prospectus’ re-
corded the following: ;

“Born March 18, 1870, in Louisville, the son of
Emmet Field, who from 1884, until his death in 1909,
served as Judge of the Court over which the son has
presided for eighteen years, William H. Field was
educated in the public schools of Louisville, Almond’s
University School, Washington and Lee University,
and the University of Louisville Law Department.
After being admitted to the bar he became associated
with the late Zach Phelps, which association continued
until Mr. Phelps’ death in 1901. Subsequently the
practice was continued under the firm name of Forcht
and Field. The relation was dissolved in 1907, after
which Mr. Field practiced alone until his father’s death,
when he succeeded him on the bench. He was re-
elected in 1915 and 1921, the latter year without op-
position. :

“In his eighteen years service he has tried many
important cases. He has paid particular attention to
ethics and has tried most of the complaints against
lawyers and subordinate judicial officials.

‘He is a member of the Lawyers’ Club and ‘The
Barristers. Outside of professional life, he is a mem-
ber of the Quindedium Club, a director in the Pen-
dennis Club, and a member of the Players’ Club. A
charter member of the Arts Club, he served one year
as First Vice President, two years as President, and
is again First Vice President. In the business world
he is on the Board of Managers of Cave Hill Cemetery,
a director in the Jefferson Savings and Building As-
sociation, and President of the J. B. Gathright Land
Company. He is a member of the Episcopal Church.

“He has two children, a son and a daughter, the
former now serving as counsel of the Legal Aid So-
ciety.

Ot Judge Gordon, candidate for the Common
Pleas Branch, second division, the “Party Prospectus”
said :

“Thomas R. Gordon was born in Owingsville, Ken-
tucky, and was educated at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. After leaving college, he went to Owenton,
Kentucky, and was there admitted to the bar. He was
elected Judge of the Owen County Court when he was
the youngest member of that bar. In 1890 he removed
to Louisville, practicing law there until he was elevated
to the bench, He qualified as Judge of the Jefferson

Circuit Court in 1903 and has been continued on the
bench since that time. He is now the senior Circuit
Judge in point of service in the state. ,

“His work has been generously approved by the
Court of Appeals. At one time, during a period of
sixteen months of his service, there were twenty-one
cases decided on appeal from his Court, of which
nineteen were affirmed and two reversed. One of
the two was reversed by the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky by a divided Court, and was also reversed
by the Supreme Court of the United States by a di-
vided Court.

“In a late case the Court of Appeals said: ‘Judge
Thomas R. Gordon, one of the most learned and
outstanding Judges of this Commonwealth, in deliv-
ering a written opinion made the following find of
fact and conclusion of law * * * and then pro-
ceeded to quote the opinion with approval.

“His administration of the law and his conduct of
the Court have been at once diligent and vigorous,
holding fast to his official oath to ‘do equal right to
the poor and the rich’—recognizing no station in life,
no political, religious or other distinction, giving to
every one a fair and full hearing and a just decision
as he sees fit.

‘He took the lead in preparing and procuring adop-
tion by the Legislature of the Declaratory Judgment
Act, under which a party who has a real controversy
with another may apply to the Court and have his
rights declared, before there has been any breach of
contract or other wrong. Judge Gordon was one of
the organizers of the Jefferson School of Law, which
holds its sessions at night, and has been continuously
a member of its faculty since organization, and for
fifteen years dean of the faculty. In doing this work
he at once gives young men an opportunity to pre-
pare themselves for the law as well as keeping him-
self fully abreast of the progress of the law.

“Since his early manhood he has been a member
of the Odd Fellows, and an honorary member of the
Louisville Bar Association and the Kentucky State
Bar Association.”

 

TED HARRIS, ’23, writes from Newark, N. J.:
“I have a professorship in English at the New Jersey
Law School, and find the work interesting; students
are of all types and classes, most of them anxious to
learn. Another advantage for me in the work is that
I am only twenty minutes and fifteen cents from New
York; thus I may keep up my theatrical enthusiasms.
On the legal faculty are Lew Tyree and Judge Caffrey ;
we ought to form a W. and L,. club of our own. In-
cidentally, this law school of which you may not have
heard is the largest in the world,”

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE oe 25

News Magazine Compliments Newton D. Baker, 94

The portrait of Newton D. Baker, 94, drawn by
artist A. J. Wolfe, was reproduced on the front cover
of a recent issue of Time, the weekly news maga-
zine. (See frontispiece.) A news story on Mr.
Baker’s activities appearing in that issue is reprinted

herewith by courtesy of the publishers of Time:

He is a small man and a quiet man, but Washing-
ton, D. C., always takes notice when Newton D. Baker
comes to town. Last week Mr. Baker was there for
three days, to attend sessions of the National Crime
Commission. He presided over that section of the
commission which studies social, educational and in-
dustrial conditions to discover crime preventives. Also
he functioned, as no one else can, as toastmaster at the
commission’s banquet.

Washington particularly noticed Baker last week be-
cause, in all the talk about Democratic Presidential can-
didates, his name had been conspicuously inconspicuous.
Yet if there is anyone in the late Woodrow Wilson’s
party who was not a dark horse it was Newton D.
Baker. Dark horses trot out of obscurity. Newton
D. Baker, though small and quiet, is one of the least
obscure and most distinguished men of his time.

He will inevitably loom in Democratic parleys be-
tween now and the nominating ballot at the conven-
tion. It is only a question of how soon.

It was characteristic of Mr. Baker that, while other

crime commissioners were talking last week about
sharper juries, harsher laws, fewer pardons and more
citizen vigilantes with sawed-off shot-guns, he was
trying to put criminals into philosophical perspective,
where he saw them as sick people whom a humanitarian
society ought to cure. A humanitarian philosopher, a
man so keen and kindly that he cannot bear to read
Mark Twain because that heartless author put his char-
acter at such unfair disadvantages—could such a man
be nominated to govern a nation? It would not be un-
heard of, even in the U. S. Observers last week pon-
dered some of the things people would want to know
about Mr. Baker apart from his record in public office,
which everyone knows—when the Democratic politi-
clans get around to considering him.

An easy way to know more about Mr. Baker—or any |

man—would be to observe his hour-to-hour, day-to-day
activities during a typical week in his life—last week
for example.

Last week, Mr. Baker went about life as follows:

Sunday. (Shaker Heights, Cleveland). Rose,
shaved and bathed early so that he could see his grand-
son, John Michael McGean aged five weeks, during
some of the latter’s few waking moments.
Motored with Mrs. Baker to see the new home of his
friend John Stockwell. Showed special interest in
John Stockwell’s library. Home for Sunday

dinner, the best part of which (for Mr. Baker) was
ice cream. Changed to old shirt and work
trousers, left off hat, coat and waistcoat, rolled up
workshirt sleeves and fell to cutting cornstalks in the
garden. Carried the cornstalks in armfuls to his va-
cant side lot. (‘The stalks were later to be spread on
flower beds for winter coverage). Forked up large
clods in the back garden with a spading fork. No blis-
ters resulted, his hands being used to such work.
Dressed to receive his lawyer-friend John H. Clarke,
one time Associate Justice of the U. S. Supreme Court.
They talked League of Nations, World Court, peace
movements, until Mr. Clarke could be shown Grand-
son McGean. Mr. Clarke gave favorable judgment.
After supper, read Mother India by Kather-
ine Mayo, about horrid conditions in a backward so-

ciety. 2 9 1. bed at 10:30 occ

Monday. All day at his law office. Ten or a dozen
callers on as many varied cases. Boarded
the 8:40 o’clock Baltimore & Ohio sleeper for Wash-
ington, D. C. Smoked a pipe (old, well-caked, straight
and-long stemmed, strong tobacco), retired, read in
berth.

Tuesday. Breakfast on the train. Registered at
the Willard Hotel for a morning of law conferences
(the Nickel Plate merger, for the Brothers Van Swer-
ingen of Cleveland, is on his hands). Went to the Su-
preme Court Chambers at the Capital. [unched in the
Senate restaurant on pie and buttermilk. . . . Con-
ferred with Assistant Secretary of the Navy in charge
of aviation F. Trubee Davison, presiding officer of
the Crime Commission; meeting set for next day.
Called at the War Department. Secretary Davis at
Cabinet meeting. Conferred with General Pershing’s
secretary, Captain Adamson, about Cleveland’s re-
ception for General Pershing on Armistice Day.
Dropped in on the Chief of Staff, Major General
Summerall, and reminisced for a half-hour about the
war. . . . Law conferences all evening.

Wednesday and Thursday. Crime Commission
meetings. Made a speech and introduced other speak-
ers at the banquet. Entrained for Cleveland.

Friday. Reached his office about noon. Read mail
and dictated answers. That evening, political
meeting—mostly Poles, a people Mr. Baker knows
well—about whether or not Cleveland should revert
to mayoralty form of government or retain the city-
manager plan. Favored city-manager plan, though
twice Mayor of Cleveland himself. Quoted his political
godfather, the late Tom LL. Johnson; “If you'll get a
tent and talk sensibly to the people, they'll respond—
they’ll do what’s right—and they can always be trusted
io do ah.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DR. LEROY C. BARRET, ’97, TRANSLATES
ANCIENT HINDU WRITINGS

A report of the work being done by Dr. LeRoy C.
Barret, B. A. ’97, M. A. ’98, professor of Latin at
Trinity College, Hartford, Conn., was widely syndi-
cated by the Associated Press and featured in Sunday
newspaper editions throughout the country on De-
cember 18th.

The report read as follows: :

“For twenty-five years Professor LeRoy C. Barret
of Trinity College has devoted all the time at his dis-
posal to preparing one of the ancient sacred writings
of the Hindus for translation. After a quarter of a
century only about half the manuscript—the Kashi-
mirian Atharva-Veda—has been made ready. But
when the long task is completed the world will learn
the ethics and attitudes of the common people of
ancient India in their daily life, for the Atharva-
Veda, more than any other version, scholars say, 1s
filled with the folklore of old India. :

“The manuscript itself is 400 years old, but the
lore it holds is much older, passed on for centuries
from generation to generation, and copied and re-
copied by each. Much of the writing consists of
magic charms and spells in metrical form, for gain-
ing success in love, battle and business or for use
against disease, demons and human enemies. Other
portions are philosophic and theosophic hymns.

“A striking feature of the manuscript, Professor
Barret says, is that more than half of its curative
charms are directed against poison, chiefly that of
snakes which abound in India.

“One of the shorter ‘hymns’, a gambling charm,

would hardly pass muster under Anglo-Saxon sport- —

ing standards. It goes:

“When the great men play for wealth, meeting in
a mighty contest may I smash the luck of the winner
among them. Profitable be my dice, and may India
help me; like a wolf that has ravaged the sheep, may
I return home victorious.’

“This and another portion were translated by
Barret to indicate the general nature of the manu-
script, but he expects to continue for years the task
of preparing the manuscript before it is ready for
complete translation. He is working on photographic
copies of the original, changing the text to Roman
characters and correcting errors in spelling and gram-
mar which crept into the ancient copying. He has
finished the fourteenth of the twenty books, and his
task, by bulk, is about half done.”

 

JOHN L. CRIST, ’12, writes: “I am General Man-
ager of the Beaver Chemical Corporation of Damascus,
Va., makers of dyestuffs. I was very much pleased
to see the Alumni Home and congratulate all that had
a hand in securing it.”

TRUST COMPANY ELECTS THOMAS R.
GORDON, ’72

Announcement was made December 15th, by the
Banker’s Trust Company of the election of Judge
Thomas R. Gordon as vice-president and director of
that institution. Judge Gordon, who is now Judge
of the Jefferson circuit court, common pleas branch,
will assume his new duties on January 1, 1928.

Judge Gordon came to Louisville in 1890 from
Owingsville, Bath County, Ky., after serving as
judge of the Owen county court, while he was the
youngest member of that bar. He is well and favor-
ably known to the people of Louisville and is often
referred to as the “Dean of Circuit Judges,” having
served on the bench continuously by successive elec-
tions since 1903. In 1921 he received the endorse-
ments of both the Democratic and Republican parties.

He was one of the organizers of the Circuit Judges’
Association and served as president of that organiza-
tion for six consecutive years. He also assisted in the
organization of the Jefferson School of Law twenty-two
years ago, and served as dean of the faculty for fifteen
years and has been a member of the faculty since organi-
zation.

Before elevation to the bench Judge Gordon prac-
ticed law as a member of the firm of Strother &
Gordon, and later as a member of the firm of Gordon
& Gordon. :

In addition to active duties as vice-president of the
Bankers’ Trust Company, Judge Gordon will act as
the company’s trust officer, for which service he 1s
eminently well qualified because of his long judicial
experience.

 

DEAN RETURNS FROM EDUCATIONAL
MEET

DEAN H. D. CAMPBELL attended the meeting
of the Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools
of the South, held November 29th to December 2nd
in Jacksonville, Fla. Being a member of the execu-
tive committee, and on the commission of Institutions
of Higher Education, it was necessary for him to at-
tend.

Dr. Campbell also visited the University of Florida,
in Gainesville, where he was the guest of Dr. C. L.
Crow, of the class of ’88, and a professor of modern
languages at W. and L. from 1899 to 1905. Dr. Crow
is now teaching Spanish and German at Florida, be-
ing on the faculty there since leaving here in 1905.

 

At the inauguration of Dr. Burney L. Parkinson
as president of the Presbyterian College of South
Carolina, on November 16th, Dr. W. S. Currell,
former Professor in English at Washington and Lee
was elected to represent the University on that oc-
casion.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | ay

A Lawyer--Banker--““Ed” Wilson, B. A., 98

Recently the Liberty National Bank of New York
City reached into a Philadelphia law office for a Vice-
President and Director. ‘The sought-for lawyer was
E. Waring Wilson, 98, who then moved his business
and residence from the Quaker City to the World’s
Broadway, there to become a banker, there to con-
tinue and enlarge his record of achievement in his
twin professions.

Edward Waring Wilson was born in Anchorage,

Kentucky, October 12th, 1873, graduated from Louis- |

ville High School in 1892, and entered Washington
and Lee in 1894, taking part in the usual college ac-
tivities, and becoming a member of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity; was stroke of Harry Lee Crew for three
years, and manager of the football team. Commenced
the study of law in 1896, and graduated in 1898, re-
ceiving the Edward Thompson Law Prize for high-
est examination average in his senior year.

Admitted to the bar in Kentucky and Pennsylvania,
he located in Philadelphia, engaging in general prac-
tice and acting as officer and director of various cor-
porations. During the war was appointed as Special
Assistant to the Attorney General of the United States,
and, for many years, has acted as Honorary British
Vice-Consul at Philadelphia, in charge of legal mat-
ters. In March of this year was elected Vice-Presi-
dent and Director of the Liberty National Bank in
New York, and of the Liberty National Safe Deposit
Company, with office at 50 Broadway, and residence at
21 East 87th Street, New York, N. Y.

He still retains, however, his connection with former
legal associates in Philadelphia, as well as member-
ship in various organizations there.

 

FE. Warinc Wizson, 98

“SN EVORE vsiicase Manager”

 

 

RICHMOND “Y” DOWNS LOCAL MATMEN
18-15

The Varsity wrestling team lost the first match of
the season to the Richmond Y. M. C. A. here in a
close scrap, the final score being 18 to 15. Coach
Mathis was very well pleased with the outcome. The
Washington and Lee matmen showed up well, and
gave evidence of some excellent training.

It was the first match for all of the Varsity men
with the exception of Bolton, and Coach Mathis is
optimistic over prospects of a winning team. ‘The
meet gave the men some valuable experience, which
is expected to prove beneficial in the future.

Friends of Judge M. P. Burks, of the State Su-
preme Court will be glad to learn that he is well on
the road to recovery from his recent operation in.
Richmond.

 

AMERICAN MERCURY CRITICIZES
WASHINGTON AND LEE

“Washington and Lee,.though situated in the back-
woods, has kept itself abreast of world events and its
choices for honorary LL.D.’s would do credit to
Harvard, the ever alert Tufts, or even New York
University.”

Is this sarcastic, complimentary, or a combination
of the two? Anyway it comes from “The Roll of
Honor” in the December American Mercury. "Ty J.
Bartlett, a New York business man, is the author of
this article. ‘The article is a subtly satiracal diatribe
against American universities for their spreading
honorary degrees among those who, in Mr. Bartlett's
opinion, are the lesserlights of the nation. His argu-
ment is upheld by a sea of names of leading men in
many activities who have and who have not received
honorary LL.D.'s.

 

 

 

 

 

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Southgate Jones, ’07

Southgate Jones, vice-president of the First Na-
tional Bank of Durham, is a native of that city. In
the summer of 1906 he entered the First National
Bank as a runner, as a vacation job, but remained dur-
ing the next year, with a promotion to assistant teller.

The following year, Mr. Jones went to Washing-
ton and Lee University, having attended the public
schools of Durham and for two years the Bingham
Military School in Asheville. He remained at W. &
L. for a year, then spent a year! in New Mexico. When
he returned to Durham he again started with the First
National Bank as a runner, pending a vacancy higher
up. ‘Two or three months later, the Peoples Bank of
Chapel Hill failed, and Mr. Jones was sent by the
First National Bank as cashier to assist in reopening
the Chapel Hill bank. He remained there for a year
and a half, then returned to Durham and entered the
real estate business under the firm name of Southgate
Jones & Co., which he continued for a few years. -

Again in 1918, Mr. Jones returned to the First Na-
tional Bank as assistant cashier and teller. He was
promoted to cashier in 1920 and in 1923 was elected
a vice-president of the bank, a position he still holds.

The North Carolina Joint Stock Land Bank, spon-
sored by the First National Bank, was organized in
1922 and Mr. Jones was elected president. ‘This bank
was chartered by the Treasury Department of the
United States to make farm loans. Under the guidance
of Mr. Jones the bank has grown rapidly, the paid-in
capital having been increased to $700,000, while the
surplus, profits and reserves are approximately $450,-
O00.

Mr. Jones, in addition to his extensive banking
duties, has been active in public matters in Durham.
He has served as president of the Y. M. C. A. He
was one of the organizers of the Durham Chamber of
Commerce, serving on its board of directors for many
years, and also as vice-president one year. While
the Durham County Fair was in operation he was a
president of that organization.

Mr. Jones is a member of the board of directors of
the Durham Citizens Hotel Corporaticn, owner of the
Washington Duke Hotel; a member of the Masonic
Lodge and a steward in Trinity M. E. Church. On
February 18, 1920, Mr. Jones married Miss Nancy
Greene, of Durham, and they have three sons and one
daughter.

Possessing a strong and pleasing personality, Mr.
Jones probably knows as many Durham people as any
other man in the city, and is cordially liked by as
many. He is never too busy at his desk in the front
of the bank to speak to the many friends who visit
him and greet him in passing to transact their banking
business, and make the stranger feel at home. His

affable and friendly manner, a valuable asset to the
bank, coupled with the implicit confidence the com-
munity reposes not only in his ability, but in his ster-
ling character, make him a valuable officer of the bank.

 

ERECT MONUMENT TO FAITHFUL
SLAVES HERE

A monument in memory of faithful servants of the
slavery and reconstruction days was placed at the
Rockbridge Court House last week by people of this
town and the county, led.by Miss M. FE. White, 6
Jordan Street, who wrote letters from an invalid’s
bed to aid in securing subscriptions, A granite
block, rough hewn, and standing about three and a
half feet, with a thickness of over a foot, has on it
a small bronze tablet with the following inscription:

“A tribute by the white friends of Rockbridge
County in grateful remembrance of the faithfulness
and loyalty of the old servants of the past.

“They loved their owners and were trusted and
loved by them.” |

The idea was born in the desire which Miss White
has had for several years, to see a public expression
of appreciation for these old servants who have al-
ways been held in fond memory through this section.
Her brother, Mr. Robert White, and others showed
cordial support in securing subscriptions and there
was only friendliness encountered; the requisite sum
is practically made up, gifts coming from over a hun-
dred people.

 

VISITORS CONTINUE TO COME TO
CHAPEL

One day it is raining. The next is bright and cold.
A third brings the icy grip of a winter snow. Yet
day in and day out visitors come to the Lee Memorial
Chapel in a steady stream in homage to Robert EF.
Lee, the great Southern chieftain.

The frigid blasts of the winter months do cause a
decrease in the number of visitors there, but not a
day passes when at least 20 persons do not enter the
chapel. |

A total of 2835 visitors are recorded for the month
of November showing a gain of 1427 over the same
month last year, when the number of persons regis-
tered totalled 1408. Among these are tourists from
every state in the union and many from abroad.

The effect of the unenforced regulation concerning
an admission fee to the shrine is little. The amount
of $28 was collected during the past month, some of
which was for the sale of books, dealing with the
story of the chapel. The rest was derived from vol-
untary contributions.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

W. Jett Lauck, A. B., 03

In a discussion of the increasing prominence and
value of the professional economist. “The Nation’s
Business” once said of W. Jett Lauck, B.A. ’03:

“Always, nearly, when the coal miners, the loco-
motive engineers, the locomotive firemen, the train
conductors or the brakemen are heard by a commit-
tee of Congress, they bring along their lawyers—and
W. Jett Lauck, professional economist and_ notable
example of this new type. |

“He appears, from the printed word, to be a large
and combative person, with a heavy voice and droop-
ing mustache. Whereas he is nothing of the kind.
No milder-mannered man ever attempted to evaporate
the water out of a railroad or figure on what really

constitutes a living wage. He is slim, well-dressed and.

interesting; a good conversationalist, it goes without
mentioning ; a skillful writer of articles, books and

speeches; a trained and clever interpreter; and, fur-_

thermore, he is alluringly, perhaps dangerously, con-
ciliatory except when diligently at work on a case. His
hair is black as night, and his brown eyes are wide

apart. Some of his ancestors helped General Wash- :

ington win the Revolutionary War—a noble ‘back-
ground’, as any imitative writer would say.

“Being a high representative of a type, W. Jett
Lauck is industrially, politically, intellectually, eth-
nologically and psychologically, worth more than a
bare notice on the part of Capital, if Capital will in-
dulge the foregoing goose parade of long adverbs,
and study their meaning. Mr. Lauck confesses, with
neither shame nor regret, that he was once a ‘conserva-
tive’. Nor does he admit that he is now a radical.

“Born and reared in West Virginia, in the con-
gressional district of William L. Wilson, writer of the
tariff law, which was reviled but signed by President
Cleveland, he, Mr. Lauck, purposed to be a lawyer,
always to vote for William L. Wilson, who was a

friend of his father, and always steadily to walk in the

middle of the old-time economic highway. Soundly
educated at Washington and Lee and at the University
of Chicago, he turned political economist and became
a professor.

“Then, for the National Government he made a tour
of all the industrial centers which lay between New
England and the Rocky Mountains so as to learn, for
the guidance of Congress, the latest phases of the im-

migration question.

“Well, briefly, that is the history, intellectually, of
a staidly-thinking young college professor who was
transformed into an industrial revolutionist. He set
up in Washington as an economist. His first client
was William S. Carter, chief of the Brotherhood of
Locomotive Firemen, who left schoo! and went to
tending cattle out in Texas, when he was nine years

 

 

W. Jerr Lauck, ’03
“Spent $17,000 for statistics”

 

 

old. Carter had $300 to spend on statistics, which
were to be used in a hearing before Congress. ‘They,
Carter and Lauck, spent $17,000 before they got
through.”

The above account gives a clear picture of this dis-
tinguished graduate and former professor. He left
the professorial ranks of W. & L. in 1907 to become
Director of Industrial Investigation for the U. 5S.
Immigration Commission. He was Chief Examiner
of the U. S. Tariff Board, 1910-11; Secretary, Na-
tional Citizens League for a Sound Banking Sys-
tem until 1913; Chief Economist U. S. Commission
on Industrial Relations, 1913-15; and Director of
Bureau of Applied Economics, Washington, D. C.,
since 1914. He was Secretary of the National War
Labor Board 1918-19. |

Mr. Lauck is also the author of numerous books
and papers on immigration, labor, industrial and
political problems. His book “Conditions of Labor
in American Industry,” published by Funk & Wag-

(C, ontinued on page 43)

 

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 Rescuer of Lees Casket Retires

(From The Ring-Tum Phi).

Bootsbootsbootsmoving up and down again.
. Theres no relief in the shoe business. The 

full significance of Kiplings famous poem has been 
revealed to Charles H. Chittum, veteran boot and

_ shoemaker, who is retiring from the oldest continual

 personal business existing in Lexington, after 65 years
 of faithful service. 

Mr. Chittum doesnt feel old, his step is still firm,
and his eyes bright, but he wants a change after sup-
plying four generations with footwear.

Seated in his little shop, a landmark in Lexington,

he puts the finishing touches to a shoe belonging to 
a person who is the great grandson of one of his first
customers. In this, his own environment, he loves to 
recount tales of the days when the General, refer-
ring of course to Robert F,. Lee, used to be a citizen 
of Lexington. Chittum was only a boy at that time, 
but he recalls the incidents as though they took place yesterday.

 His favorite story is about the great flood of 1870.
 During the night of October 9, 1870, the North river,
swollen from recent rains steadily rose and washed
away the old bridge at Fast Lexington. At the same
 time much damage was done to the property along the 
river. A warehouse belonging to Cousin Arch 
Alexander was swept away and the merchandise con-
tained therein, was either washed down the stream or 
scattered along the river banks for miles.

The town of Lexington was entirely shut off from 
the outside world. The only news that reached the 
town was that received from the opposite side of the 
river through the medium of some deep-chested hol-
lering. 

On October 12, Robert E. Lee, then president of 
the institution now known as Washington and Lee, 
passed away. Lexington paused in grief. Its loss
 from the flood had been excelled by the death of its 
most honored citizen. 

Shortly afterward the report was spread abroad
 that all the coffins in the town had been in Cousin
 Archs warehouse and had been washed away. Chit-
tum, then but a boy, with a chum, Harry Wallace, 
was down at the river bank looking at the results of
the flood when Coons, furniture man and undertaker, 
together with the town police force, named Holmes, 
were observed by the boys. Coons, pausing from 
his labors at constructing a flat bottom boat, explained 
to the boys that a coffin must be recovered for the 
burial of General Lee, and asked their aid. They, 
only too willing to engage in an adventure of this type, 
manned the tiny craft that had just been constructed
and were immediately washed down stream to David-

sons Island below the site of the bridge. Realizing
that they were in danger, Wallace caught a tree branch 
that overhung the turbulent river, and managed to
 make fast their boat. Just above them, caught in the 
boughs of a tree, was a casket, deposited there by the
 swollen stream. 

After aid came, Chittum and his friend managed 
to get the casket to shore. It was this coffin that was
used for the remains of the great chieftain.

 

MILLER ASKS FROSH HELP ON BRIDGE

A meeting of the Freshman class and transfers was
held in the gymnasium recently. The meeting was
called by the Executive Committee of the Student body
for the purpose of discussing the finances of the Me-
morial Bridge which was started by the class of 1927.

k. H. Miller, president of the Bridge Committee,
gave a short talk on the advantages of the new bridge,
and asked for the co-operation of the new men in
financing it. W. J. Dorsey then explained the plan of
contribution, asking that each man give $50.00, the ini-
tial payment of $10.00 to be made this year, and the re-
mainder during the succeeding four years.

Short talks were also given by Francis Harvey,
freshman class president, and B. B. Tips, captain of
the football team.

nn

STUDENTS FILE APPLICATIONS FOR
DEGREES

From the report from the Registrars office, 128
men have filed applications for degrees for 1928,
showing a decrease of seven from last years figure.
There are 49 applicants for the degree of Bachelor
of Arts while last year there were 57. The Com-
merce school has also suffered a loss there being only
40 applicants this year, as compared with 42 last year.

As last year, there has been only one application
for a Certificate in Commerce. 23 men have applied
for the degree of Bachelor of Law as compared with
26 last year. The only increase over last years ap-
plications for degrees is that in Master of Arts, five
having applied this year, and only one last year.

JAMES A. LEE, B.A. 17, able secretary and mov-
ing spirit in the Manhattan alumni association, called
at the Alumni Office en route from Chicago to New
York, talked over alumni organization plans, called
upon his former professors, visited familiar scenes,
departed for his office in the Research Department
of the Bell Telephone Laboratories in New York
City.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE : 31

For the Inter-State Commerce Commission, “Hi Dow, ‘07

An interesting letter from Hiram M. Dow, ’07, ap-
pearing elsewhere in this issue of the ALUMNI MaGa-
ZINE, lauds the achievements of W. & L. alumni in
New Mexico but modestly omits any reference to
the achievements of its author. It was from “Jimmie”
Caskie, ’03-’06, that we learned that “Hi” Dow was
New Mexico’s candidate for the Inter-state Com-
merce Commission.

Upon investigation we found that the retirement
of Commissioner Henry C. Hall of Colorado left a
vacancy on the Inter-state Commerce Commission
which, according to custom, would be filled by a law-
yer, a democrat and a representative of one of the
Rocky Mountain states. New Mexico senators and
congressmen urged the democratic patty in their state
to put forth a candidate for this vacancy. ‘“‘Hi’ Dow
was their unanimous choice. :
Mr. Dow was immediately endorsed by the two
senators, by each member of the State Supreme Court,

the two Federal judges (one of whom is Colin M. Neb-*

lett, 04). He also has the support of the State Re-
publican organization. His experience and ability as
a lawyer entitles him to a favorable recognition by
President Coolidge.

Regarding Mr. Dow’s record his friend and law
partner, Mr, J]. M. Hervey, wrote us:

“There is no more substantial member of the Bar
in New Mexico than Hiram M. Dow. He has never
had very much to do with politics, but has applied
himself closely to his business and to other lines of
public service. He was President of the New Mexico
State Bar Association in 1917 and 1918, and during that
time appointed the various county boards of legal ad-
visers required in the civil management of our war
preparations. He was Mayor of the City of Roswell
at the same time in 1917 and 1918, and due largely to
his efforts a local improvement program was started
that is still continuing and has contributed substan-
tially to the upbuilding and beautifying of this city.
He has been a member of the Board of Regents of
the New Mexico Military Institute for the past eight
years, and is now Vice-President of the Board. He
has devoted a great deal of his time to this military
school, and has taken a great interest 1n it, and 1s re-
garded as one of the most valuable members. Some
five or six years ago he took a leading part in the
organization of the Equitable Building and Loan As-
sociation, which is now rather a large financial insti-
tution for this community, and he is now, and has
been since its organization, the President.

R. H. ABBOTT, ’26, writes: “Am in the insurance
business in Springfield, Illinois. Very glad to receive
the MaGAZINE as often as possible.”’

 

Hrram M. Dow, ’07

“__Fayorable recognition by President Coolidge”

 

 

FIRE IN DOREMUS GYMNASIUM

Only slight damage resulted to Doremus Memorial
Gymnasium Sunday morning, November 6th, when
a fire burned part way through the floor just inside
the entrance to the building. A hole less than three
feet wide was burned in the floor, and the doormat

was damaged, but aside from this no actual damage

was done to the gym. ‘he dance decorations in the
room beneath suffered considerably from water, how-
ever.

The fire originated behind the radiator just inside
the door, and no one is sure what started the trouble.
The men sleeping in the gym first/had their attention
attracted to the danger shortly after day-break Sun-
day, when they smelled smoke, end hurriedly secured
the fire hose and soon had it out.

LEE R. GRAYBILL, JR.,/14, is engaged as patent
attorney in the legal department of the Fugene I. Du-
Pont de Nemours Company of Wilmington, Del.

 

 

 

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“Bob” Witt, B. A., "13

October 31, 1927.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

Pardon my failure to give proper attention to your
letter of September 22nd. It was misplaced on my
desk and filed with other papers, which goes to show
that letters, like boys in college, go astray whenever
they get mixed up in the wrong crowd.

As to giving you an account of my ‘‘work, hobbies
and accomplishments” I feel a little awkward. I could
write pages on my work, because there is lots of it in
this country and I find a generous portion of it on my
doorstep at all times. I could also tell you some of my
hobbies, but unfortunately I cannot qualify in that
small but select group of alumni who, year after year,
reflect credit on their Alma Mater as they make foot-
prints in the sands of time. ‘There is, however, one
outstanding accomplishment of which I am very proud,
and that is selling the present Mrs. Witt on the idea

of matrimony. The net result to date is that I have a

half interest in two of the finest little girls that have
come into the world in the last thirty years since their
mother broke all records. The mere matter of railroad
fare is the only thing which keeps me from showing
all three of them to all members of the Class of 713.

There is nothing else in the line of accomplishments
that would set me apart from the rest of the world or
raise me above the average level of my classmates.
I came to Texas in the fall of 1913 to represent the
Steves Sash & Door Company of this city as travel-
ling salesman. About 1916 I moved to Corpus Christi
as manager of their branch warehouse. The follow-
ing year the war broke out and I entered the first offi-
cers training camp at Leon Springs, Texas, was trans-
ferred from there to Ft. Monroe for Heavy Artillery
training, was commissioned First Lieutenant, Coast
Artillery, went to France during the winter of 1918 on
the Artillery Staff of the first army as Aide-de-Camp
to the Commanding General. After the usual vicissitudes
of attending school and teaching school, I was attached
to a French Regiment in the Lines for several weeks,
and later to the 44th C. A. C. Regiment serving 8”
British Howitzers. This was a regular army outfit and
the first American Heavy Artillery Regiment in the
Lines. I served with them until the Armistice, and
soon thereafter was in command of the Regiment with
rank of Major to\bring them home.

After the war 1 began where I left off in Corpus
Christi and things \moved very rapidly. First the
house where I was living burned, and the only thing
recovered from the loss was my fraternity pin found
among the ashes a few days later. Then came the
Corpus Christi storm and tidal wave and the build-
ing in which I was housed was destroyed and I spent
a day and night under the floor. Becoming used to

the natural hazards of normal life, I resigned my job,
got married and went into a brokerage business for
myself, that being the climax of two tempestuous
years, during which I suffered first a storm, then a
war, a fire, a flood, entered business for myself and
got married. About a year later when I came to, my
wife was still with me and my brokerage business had
been fused with the hardware jobbing business operat-
ing under the name of the Builders Supply Company.
This company I have managed since that time, and
feel that it may properly be called successful.

Under hobbies perhaps the most striking thing is
the fact that I do not play golf. Instead I pull weeds
in my wife’s back yard. It is almost impossible for
a hard working man to play golf in San Antonio, as
we have three hundred and sixty-five days of good
golf weather here, except leap year and then we have
only three hundred and sixty-four. Added to this we
perhaps have the best golf links anywhere in the
South, and a fellow should never undertake golf un-
less he has unlimited time to give under such circum-
stances as these. My hobbies are hunting and fish-
ing. Several years ago I killea a deer. Tonight I
am leaving for the Coast duck hunting, and have high
hopes that I might kill “a duck.” I can produce
necessary witnesses to show that periodically, but with
no degree of regularity, I have caught fish large enough
to eat. ,

Under the head of work—not hobby or accomplish-
ment—I might state that I am president of the San
Antonio Rotary Club.

You find in the above the “stride” of the average man.
If it is your desire to show such from time to time
in your columns along with the great and near-great
I refer you to my mother or sister for the photo-
graph you desire.

With kindest regards, I am

Very truly yours,
Bee wart, . Ie. 718.

 

HONOR ROLL, FALL 1927

I. B. Collette, J. P. Davis, G. W. Dunnington, P.
J. Gordon, R: J, Haller, J. H. Hardwick, N. E.
Hawes, H. G. Hahncke, J. Kaplan, D. I. Lewis, J.
L. Lockett, Jr., C. H. McMillan, Jr., J. A. McNeil,
W. H. Marshall, W. T. Martin, E. H. Miller, H. G.
Morison,, W. C, Norman, 1. 7. Sanders, $1.)
Shackelford, M. A. Simons, P. D. Sprouse, W. H.
Tallyn, D. H. Wice, J. H. Williams.

 

MARRIED. Walter E. Smith, ’20, to Miss Eliza-
beth Jame Stevens of Jacksonville, Fla. on December
6th.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

Gaylord J. Stone, ’10, Blazes New Trail

In the December issue of “Southern Advertising
and Publishing” (Greensboro, N. C.) the accomplish-
ments of Gaylord J. Stone, 10, of Fort Worth, Texas,
are highly lauded from the standpoint of his new
feed production and advertising methods.

At Washington and Lee Mr. Stone ran on the track
team and was prominent in other affairs. He is now
president of the Universal Mills, Inc., manufacturers
of stock and poultry feeds. In commenting on his
progressive work the article stated—

“But there was one man in the feed industry who
wasn't satisfied with things as they were; this man was
Gaylord J. Stone, president of Universal Mills of Fort
Worth, Texas. He is something more than a capable
executive and a widevisioned business man. ‘The son
of a Virginia flour miller, he was literally born in the
milling business. Later, going into dairy and poultry
farming himself, he gained a practical working knowl-
edge of the “consumer viewpoint” that has since been
surveyed, outlined and charted—expensively and often
inaccurately—for countless other manufpcturers.

“Having paid his own feed bills—having earned his
living from his own flocks and herds—Gaylord Stone
knows, probably better than any other feed manu-
facturer, that the only reason why any man should buy
the ‘Superior’ brand of feeds manufactured by his
Universal Mills is because those feeds will return a
profit to the feeder. — |

“With such a background, it is only natural that
Mr. Stone has constantly improved the quality of
‘Superior’ feeds. But his greatest improvement —
the big discovery that has affected all feeds and all
feed advertising—had its inception in a trivial incrdent.
Of course there have been many other ‘trivial inci-
dents.’ Every schoolboy knows of Isaac Newton and
the falling apple; Ben Franklin and his kite; Watt

and the steam kettle—all mere trifles except that, in

each case, a man of vision could see more than was
apparent to other men’s eyes.

“Gaylord Stone discovered the value of dehydrated
orange peel and pulp through similar unrelated inci-
dents. But we will let him tell it in his own words:

““About three years ago my little girl became very
ill with stomach trouble. After the attending phy-
sician had prescribed as a diet practically everything
known to modern medical science—all without ap-
preciable results—he finally suggested orange juice as
a last resort. The effect was astounding. Within two
weeks my daughter had returned to normal health;
she was able to retain solid food on her stomach and
she developed very rapidly into a strong and healthy
child.

“ “The wonderful results of the orange juice in my
own family naturally awakened my curiosity concern-

 

 

 

 

 

Gayrorp J. Stonr, 710

“Fed oranges to chickens”

 

 

ing this rich source of the health-giving vitamines.
Knowing that the juice itself was more than ninety-
five per cent water, I concluded that these same mys-
terious vitamines which had brought my little girl
back to health would be found in larger and more con-
centrated quantities in the pulp and peel itself. So I
then began a lengthy investigation of the vitamine con-
tents of this fruit, securing all available information
from the foremost authorities on the subject. I then
took the matter up with various laboratories that had
experimented with orange-feeding on guinea pigs and
rats afflicted with scurvy, with pronounced curative re-
sults.

““Convinced that I was on the road to the discovery
of the long-sought-for green food substitute, I con-
tracted with a California candy concern to supply us
with enough of the dehydrated orange for experi-
mental purposes. Our Poultry Service Department
then conducted experiments for approximately two
years, testing and proving the wonderful properties of
this new ingredient in every conceivable manner.

““The University of California likewise conducted
successful experiments and, at the same time, we sup-
plied feed containing the dehydrate orange peel and
pulp to three practical poultrymen.

““The results in every case were even more satis-
factory than I had hoped for. ‘The most rigid tests
proved beyond a doubt that dehydrated orange peel
and pulp is not only a wonderful source of the health-
giving and growth-promoting vitamines, but also that

CC ontinued on page 43)

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W.H. ‘Trotter, 2 | : Sets World’s Record

The “Provident Review” house organ of the Provi-
dent Life and Accident Insurance Company of Chatta-
nooga, Tenn., featured the record breaking achieve-

ment of William Henry Trotter, ’21, in their October.

issue. ‘The article states:

“What is believed to be a new world record as to the
number of accident insurance applications written im
one month was hung up during September by W. H.
Trotter, of Trotter & Boyd, general agents in Chatta-
nooga for the Provident’s Personal Accident and
Health Department. During the 26 days of Septem-
ber Mr. Trotter wrote a total of 219 accident applica-
tions. Since the previous record, so far as can be as-
certained, was 153 applications in one month’s time,
Mr. ‘Trotter’s September business sets a new high
mark for the world to shoot at. An-app-an-hour was
the pace Mr. Trotter set for the 26 working days, al-
lowing eight hours for each day.

“Only commercial business is included in this record,
no monthly pay or life applications being counted. [1

these and the commercial applications calling for health -

insurance business were counted, his total number of
applications for the month would be increased to a
larger figure.

“Two factors make Mr. Trotter’s record quite re-
markable. In the first place, he -entered upon the
record-breaking attempt with only a few days prepara-

tion. It was after the middle of August, in fact, be-
fore he finally determined to make the attempt in Sep-
tember. Asa rule, agents who set out to hang up new
world records for production prepare for the campaign
at least two months ahead of time. In the second place,
the class of business that Mr. Trotter placed on his
books during the campaign was the very highest that
the city of Chattanooga could produce—business of
the class that sticks.

“In going after his record Mr. Trotter left na stone
unturned. He adopted every method of getting busi-
ness that portended results. For the most part, how-
ever, his production was secured through personal
calls. Before starting his campaign he made up a large
prospect list and then scheduled a certain number of
calls for every day. Along with his scheduled calls he
conducted a cold canvass, also, nailing every likely
looking prospect encountered. With a large number of
his friends and acquaintances, he used direct by mail
solicitation and many of his applications were pro-
duced by this means. But the thing that put the job
over was regular, systematic day by day hammering,
getting to work early and staying at it late.

“As a result of his month’s campaign, Mr. ‘Trotter
not only made a new world record but also rolled up
a big showing for his agency for the month.”’

 

 

Nov, 721927
Mr. Verbon E. Kemp:

I received copy of the ALUMNI MaGazINeE today and
in looking over its interesting pages I find a notice of
myself, taken from the Raleigh News and Observer,
stating that I can spell every word in an unabridged
Dictionary. Now, my dear friend, as I dislike to be
overrated just let me inform you that the News and
Observer has been widely misinformed. I do not be-
lieve there has ever lived a man who could spell 450,-
O00 words especially those included in the sciences.
I learned the old Blue Back Speller away back in the
early 50’s at the age of seven years and I still know it.
I don’t think I said it was excluded from the schools
because “it only costs ten cents” but I think I said “be-
cause it costs only ten cents.”

To give you an accurate statement of my proficiency
in the orthographic line, I shall say that I can spell
every word in the old Blue Back Speller, all in Towne’s
Speller and define all in the antebellum Primary Dic-
tionary (Webster’s) all in his School Dictionary, all
in Westlake’s 3,000 Practice Words and many in the
latest New Abridged Dictionary but by no means all of
them.

My reputation as a speller got out in 1892 when I

was sent to Raleigh, Dec. Ist. to spell in a “Bee” of
the Literati of the state for the benefit of the Con-
federate Veterans’ Home. ‘There were 35 contestants
of all professions and I knocked out every one of them.
Raleigh at that time considered itself “not of the uni-
verse” and was mightily cut down that a man from the
plow-horse team in the country should be victorious in
a contest of that kind. And in°1907 they invited me
again to give out the words for another “Bee”. I did
so and Professor Monson won the prize. Then some-
one steps forward and said: “For a continuation of
the championship Mr. Allen must spell against Prof.
Morson.”’ I could not back down and so took a seat
at the side of Morson before an audience of 2,000 or
more. I knocked him out on the third round, each
having been given three words. Morson was a gradu-
ate of the University of Virginia and had been a teacher
in the high school at Raleigh for forty years.

I trust you can read this scrawl and excuse its length..
I shall be 81 next February 2nd, and hope to be at the
next Finals.

I omitted to say that in my spelling contests I not
only spelled all my words correctly but located them
by page, column and number in column if in the Blue

ae JosrpH JoHn ALLEN, ’70.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

R. T. Shields, ’98, Still Able Athlete

Tho nearly two decades have passed by since “Ran”
Shields cavorted on the W. & L. gridiron or pulled an
oar on the Harry Lee crew during the years of ’96-
98, he seems to have lost none of his athletic prowess.

In a track meet at his post in China during April,
1926, Dr. Shields was pitted against C. C. Chang,
twice China’s representative in the Far Eastern Clym-
pics. In a 1500 meter race Dr. Shields came in first
and Chang second. The time was 4 49”. He was
bested by Chang in the 5,000 meter race but ran him
a close second. The accompanying photograph show
both runners at the meet. 7

Recent disturbance in: China has not allowed for
much sporting activity unless in the realm of armed
combat. However, Dr. Shields has returned to his
position as head of the Medical School of Shantung
University, at Tsinan, Shantung, China.

Dr. Shields writes us: “I was very glad to see the in-

teresting August number of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

Was especially interested in seeing the old ’97 football

team and learning something of the whereabouts of.

some of the old boys. The enclosed photo will show that
I have not yet become fossilized. I am not President
of Shantung Christian University but Dean of School

of Medicine. Hope to return for a visit to Lexington |

next spring and enter Ran, Jr., in fall of ’28.

WILLIAM W. MORGAN, ’26, PROMINENT
ASTRONOMER

At the beginning of his junior year at Washington
and Lee, William W. Morgan of Washington, D. C.,
had an opportunity to take a position with the Yerkes

 

 

 

Wma. W. Morcan, 726
“C, P. Cygni not variable”

 

 

“ Dr. R. T. Suretps, 98

“Ran ran Chang”

 

 

Observatory under famed astronomer Edwin L, Frost.
This opportunity came by chance through Dr. B. A.
Wooten, able professor of Physics at W. & L., who
worked at the Yerkes Observatory during the summer
of 1926. Morgan specialized in Physics and As-

~tronomy under Dr. Wooten, who recognizing his un-

usual ability tried to secure a post-graduate research
scholarship for him. Dr. Frost of the Yerkes Ob-

servatory heard of this effort and immediately offered

to place him in a vacancy in his own staff.

The opportunity could not be missed. After con-
siderable debate over leaving W. & L. before complet-
ing his under-graduate work, Morgan accepted. Since
that time his rise has been phenominal. He has writ-
ten several papers on Astronomy which were published
in the Astra Physical Journal, and in Popular Astron-
omy. He presented, by invitation, a paper before
the American Astronomical Society at Madison,
Wisc., proving that the variable star C. P. Cygni

(Continued on page 42)

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

From Robert R. Brown, Coach 1905-09

Editor ALUMNI MAGAZINE,

Dear Sir:

I have just received a letter from an alumnus of W.
& L. giving me some details of the selection of the
ALL TIME W. & L. Team. As I was coach at W.
& L. from 1905 to 1908 I am in a position to give some
credit to men who played on my teams of those years.

There were men whose work was especially notice-
able whom I would like to nominate for positions.
Bagley, Moomaw, Ed Brown, Streit, and Alderson were
the best of the backs. Dow and White were the two
best linemen.

I considered Dow the best end I coached while at
W. & L., and one of the best in the South. He was
not especially fast, but was always on top of the ball,
always down under kicks and always got the receiver
of the kick. During the two years he played end—
1906 & 1907—I can not recall a gain made around his
end. During those years W. & L. beat Virginia, tied
N. C., lost to V. P. I. although the latter made but one
or two first downs, lost to Bucknell 0-2, and Bucknell
made but one first down. If you will look up the rec-
ords of the teams of those years, you will notice the
few scores made against the teams. Will suggest H.
M. Dow, 1908 Law, for an end position.

White was an exceptionally good tackle, and was
the equal of any tackle I saw on later teams. I refereed
and acted as umpire in the games between Tulane and
W.& L. in New Orleans about 1914 and 1919, and did
not see a lineman on the W. & L. teams better.

Alderson and Bill Streit were the two best backs
who were on my teams of 1905-1908. Alderson was
the best line plunger in the south in 1907. He was
good for a gain against every line he opposed, and had
the faculty of passing the secondary when through.
In Georgetown game of 1908, Alderson had a_ bad
knee and was instructed not to carry ball until near the
opposing goal. He was not given ball until on George-
town ZO yd. line, and on first play broke through line,
sidestepped secondary defense, and scored. With
score 11-6 against W. & L. in last few minutes of game
he again crashed 11 yds. for second touchdown, and
kicked goal to win 12-11. His defense was as good.

Streit was one of the best backs in South in 1906-7.
While not fast he was never stopped without a good
gain, and his off tackle smashes were always good for

from 5 to 15 yds. Before coming to W. & L. he was

named All-Southern tackle while at Auburn, be-
cause of his defenSive work. At W. & LL. under me,
I can not recall his ever missing a tackle, and they
were made on line of scrimmage. He sized up a play
quicker than most backs, and the low scores made on
W. & L. teams while he was there were due in great
part to the defensive work of Streit. He was power-

fully built, never injured, and an ideal leader. In tak-
ing out an end for his other backs he had no equal in
the South. To show his nerve; in Georgetown game
of 1906, Streit played while his arms and shoulders
were covered with 11 boils. After game I took him
to the hospital, and the Doctor could not believe that
a person could have played under the handicap. He
stated it was the greatest exhibit of courage and nerve
he had ever seen. He was not only a great player but
an inspiring leader.

As I stated above, I saw teams from W. & L. play
in 1914 and 1919, and there were not as great players
on those teams as Dow and Streit.

I would nominate for the All Time Team H. M.
Dow for one end, and “Bill” Streit for a back. For
second team (if one is selected) White, about 1908,
tackle and Alderson, 1909, full. :

Yours truly,

Rost. R. Brown,
Coach W. & L. 1905 to 1909.

November 21, 1927.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I am enclosing my check for $2.50 covering sub-
scription to the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

Your letter of the 14th was certainly appreciated,
and it was indeed a pleasure to renew our acquaint-
ance. |

While I was very anxious for W & L. to defeat
Virginia, I do not feel that the defeat in any way
spoiled my trip, because it was worth almost any price
to get back to Lexington, even at the great expense
of a Virginia victory, to meet my old friends again,
whom I shall always regard as those that are the best. .

When you were in Helena a few years ago I was
laboring under such financial difficulties that I was
unable to pledge anything to W. & L. If you still
need any pledges I am now in a position to at least
pledge a moderate amount, and I would appreciate
your explaining to me just how this is done, and send
me whatever necessary papers there are to be signed.

Mrs. Beall and the Youngs thoroughly enjoyed the
visit as well as myself, and we are going to drive up
again next year. It is possible that I will be in Vir-
ginia again in the Spring, and I am planning to spend
a couple of days at W. & L. :

Sincerely yours,

ALLEIN Bray, JR., 18.

 

MARRIED. James Edward Moyler, ’21, and Miss
Amelia Walker were married on November 19th, and
are making their home in Franklin, Virginia.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE — 37

Notable Doings of Washington and Lee Folk

COACH FOREST FLETCHER, Director of Phys-
ical Education and titular head of all athletics at W.
& L., represented Washington and Lee at the meet-
ing of the Southern Athletic Conference which was
held at Lexington, Kentucky, at the close of the foot-
ball season. ‘This convention has been an annual af-
fair since 1921 and Coach Fletcher has championed
local athletic interests in this conference at every
meeting since that time. :

HUGH B. SPROUL, 792, trustee of Washington
and Lee, member of the State Highway Commission,
addressed the Sphex Club, prominent literary organi-
zation of Lynchburg at their December meeting. He
gave a brief history of road building in Virginia,
gave statistics on road mileage in the State, discussed
the maintenance of the Valley Pike, discussed revenue
sources, the 160 road projects, the 22 convict camps
and the work in the Lynchburg construction district.

A brief address was also made at this meeting of
the Sphex Club by Powell Glass, ’07.

ROBERT L. OWEN, ’77, of Oklahoma, no pro
German, in whose veins flows the blood of the native
red man, spoke at a patriotic dinner, absolved Ger-
many from the guilt of starting the war, showed that
the War guilt should rest on France and the Balkans.
His hearers were astounded; applauded or not, ac-
cording to their own convictions.

BABE SPOTTS, student, all-round athlete, star
football end, was chosen to join the all-star Southern
Football Eleven which met and defeated an all star
Western team in a Christmas battle at Los Angeles,
Calif. He was chosen by coaches Wade of Alabama
and Alexander of Georgia Tech who had charge of
the Southern aggregation. Washington and Lee was
represented on the all-star Southern Eleven last year

by “Ty” Rauber.

LUCIUS JUNIUS DESHA, A.B., 06, M.A,
Ph.D., able professor of Organic Chemistry at Wash-
ington and Lee, announced the compilation of a new
chemistry text book, to be ready for publication in
the near future. The material in this text has been
used for regular assignment by Dr. Desha’s classes
for the past year. It is the result of several years’
study and observation as to the needs of college classes
in organic chemistry and the product of much ex-
perience.

WILLIAM A. GLASGOW, ’86, patriot and able
lawyer, took justifiable exception to an America bait-
ing cartoon in “Punch,” British weekly, politely ad-
dressed the editor in a letter saying: “Such publications
are distressing to cordial and affectionate relations
between two great countries. * * * J am quite

sure the next edition of your paper should contain
an apology,” and received a cold and disdainful re-
ply; again wrote, this time sharply—‘I find I mis-
judged both the intelligence of the editor and the
character of the publication.”

ALLAN RUSHTON, ’26, returns by air. Dur-
ing the third quarter of play in the Virginia game an
airplane appeared out of the gray haze to the South.
It circled the field and swooped low just as the Cava-
liers from Virginia scored their winning touchdown.
Then it departed in disgust. A safe landing was
made in a field just South of Lexington. Out stepped
Allan Rushton, of Birmingham, Ala., and his passen-
ger, Miss Adelaide Douglas, of Washington, D. C.

Allan reported an uneventful flight from Birming-
ham. He flew with Miss Douglas to Atlanta where
they were joined by a co-pilot. Stops were made at
Greenville, S. C. and Winston-Salem, N. C. He at-
tended the Monogram Club dance and started on the
return flight the following morning.

MAJOR LEROY HODGES, B.A., ’10, able, popu-
lar director of the Virginia Chamber of Commerce,
announced that he was not a candidate for the gov-
ernorship of Virginia to succeed able, popular Gov-
ernor H. F. Byrd. This announcement came in re-
sponse to a query from a Suffolk, Va., newspaper edi-
tor; scotched rumors that he was to enter politics.
Major Hodges stated that his every effort was di-
rected toward completing the five-five program for
commercial unification and expansion in Virginia,
inaugurated in 1924 by the State Chamber of Com-
merce. |

CONGRESSMAN GEORGE LL. PEERY, B.A.,
02, famed democratic conqueror of the republican
Ninth District of Virginia, thrice elected to Congress

from that district, announced that he would not be a>

candidate for re-election; was editorially lauded
throughout the state for his achievement and rapid rise
in the U. S. House of Representatives, and his political
retirement deplored; was mentioned as a candidate for
governor of Virginia to succeed Governor Byrd. (In
this event he would oppose Lieut.-Gov. Junius FE.
West, ’93, only announced candidate for the governor-
ship ).

E. CLYDE HOGE, ’08, writes us from Cincinnati:
“Certainly did enjoy Home-coming Day, November
5th, and seeing many alumni of my day and time.
You are to be congratulated on the splendid showing
you made in fixing up the Alumni House with the
funds at your disposal. I urge the alumni to contrib-

ute generously to this cause so we may have a real |

headquarters at Alma Mater.” »

TET I, a aaa He OES

 

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Letters

W. & L. IN NEW MEXICO

Nov. 23, 192s:
My dear Mr. Kemp:

I enclose my check for $4.00 covering ALUMNI
MacazIneE subscription for two years. The Novem-
ber issue was received and greatly enjoyed.

I have a section of my office library set apart and
bountifully stocked with Washington and Lee litera-
ture. I am particularly fond of my ALUMNI MaAGa-
ZINE file, which is complete. This room in my office
has become the headquarters for Washington and
Lee graduates and prospective students seeking in-
formation. ~

Washington and Lee men are playing important
roles in the affairs of this State. Hon. Colin Neblett,
04, is Judge of the United States District Court for
the District of New Mexico. W. A. Kelleher, 715,
of Albuquerque and Clarence Hinkle, 13, of Ros-
well are universally recognized as two of the most
promising young lawyers in the State. Herman
Crile, ’°17, is back into the practice of law and is do-
ing exceptionally well, and, but for the fact that he
deemed it unwise to go on the bench at this time, he
probably would have received an appointment as Judge
of our district, filling a vacancy recently occurring.

Miguel Otero, Jr., 15, is State Auditor, and Bob Dow,

12, is the State’s Attorney General.

There are twelve Washington and Lee men in and
around Roswell, all of whom are getting along splen-
didly in the business world, and I am rather proud of
the fact that they often get together and sometimes
refer to me as the “Daddy of the Washington and Lee
movement from this section of the country.”

With warm personal regards, I beg to remain,

Sincerely yours,
Hiram M. Dow, ’08.

———

LEXINGTON LEADS LIST OF TEN CITIES
REPRESENTED

One of the most surprising facts brought to lght
from a survey of Washington and Lee men by cities
as listed in the student directory is that many cities
which have a large representation are a considerable
distance from Lexington. Lexington has the largest
number of students in the University this year, but
Memphis, Tenn., and Washington, D. C., follow
closely. The following table shows the number of
students from cities in the country in the order of the
size of their group:.

Lexington 25, Memphis 21, Washington 19, New
York 17, Louisville 16, Birmingham 15, Portsmouth
13, Roanoke 13, Lynchburg 12.

My dear Mr. Kemp:

Enclosed herewith find check for $2.50 covering one
year’s subscription to the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

I am sorry that I have been negligent in forwarding
my subscription as I have enjoyed the many issues
which I received last year, and I looked forward to
receiving them with very much eagerness and antici-
pation. I have talked W. & L. more the past few
months than I have since my graduation, possibly due
to the fact that “Shorty” and “Cy” Hall visited us in
August telling us of the many happenings in and
around Lexington for the past several years. We had
a regular W. &. L. gathering, there being “Swamp”
Jackson, ’24, G. P. Fifer, ‘25, Ed Woodson, “25,
“Chick” Manley, ’24, “Cy” Hall, “Shorty” Hall and
myself. It certainly seemed like old times to have some
one to “pop” questions to and have them answered by
ones who were familiar with the various teams, fra-
ternities, activities, etc.

If there are any issues of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
which I might have missed, kindly forward them to
me as quickly as possible. ,

I saw Ed Rosamond, ’23, in Birmingham two weeks
ago and naturally W. & L. was again the sole topic of
conversation. If the class of ’23 convenes this com-
ing year for a reunion at Finals, you may count me

“among those present” from now on.

Kindly remember me to Dick Smith, Eddie Parks,
“Dean Harry”, and “Boss” Moreland.

Yours for the “Fighting Generals” to lick the tar
out of Virginia on the 5th,

Rost. Carr, ’23.

November 10, 1927.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

After receiving and again partaking of such gener-
ous hospitality which was accorded me on last Friday
and Saturday, due mainly to your efforts, I feel as
though I should express my felicitations to you in some
small way.

To be made to feel at home in our Alumni Head-
quarters, makes one feel as though he is really a part
and parcel of the University, even though he might
have finished many, many years ago and that is what
I experienced on my recent trip to Lexington. The
Alumni Headquarters is indeed a most valuable asset
to the University.

Again thanking you and further assuring you that
if I can be of any service in some small way, do not
hesitate to call on me.

With kind personal regards and best wishes, I re-
main,

Yours for success,
CaRLETON FE. JEweET?, 21.

ee

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

 

 

   
    

      
 
   
   
    

 
     
   

 

LA Yes ANS
\ * aM By

PYAR RPP Vro7y~
OE J Oe

   

PERSONALS 1
EDWARD C. DAY, ’80, writes: ‘“‘SHave been en- GAG.
A gaged in the practice of law in Helena 31 years. : VW OR : a
\ . . a ah A SS We Q b 4 / ig
Greetings to those who are left of 1880!” So ee Se
, COO Nan ae
| SS SAGE 0 cleo 0
REV. JOHN V. McCALL, ’86, of El Paso, Texas, Pod aiken YE
pastor of the Kastminster Presbyterian Church, is easily pH OE
| 3 : eS $ LV SAS Ost A J KH Ayer ‘ NC
one of the leading Presbyterian ministers of the state. Veer BP OOOO a eee Se

He studied for the ministry at Columbia Theological
Seminary and also at Princeton Seminary. While at
Hugo, Oklahoma, in 1921, Rev. McCall spent sev-
eral years at Kenworth on account of ill health, but
he has recovered and is actively engaged in his work.

ee COLES, 93, writes us that in February he
will have completed a residence of 20 years in Char-
lotte, N. C., as manager of the General Electric Com-

pany.

H. H. LARIMORE, 795, of St. Louis, Mo., General
Counsel of the Missouri Pacific Railroad, and a grad-
uate of the law school of Washington and Lee, obeyed
the impulse to visit Lexington and see the big football
game on November 5th.

HONORABLE HARRY M. WURZBACH, 796,
representative of Texas, has begun his fourth term in
Congress. He will be in Washington until adjournment
of Congress.»

DR. HARVEY WINTERS McNEILL of Mar-
linton, W. Va., class of 1898 W. & L. and 1900 U.
Va., saw the game on November 5th between W. & L.
and U. Va., with divided emotions. He sat with the
W. & L. boys. |

| IT HAS BEEN THE PURPOSE OF
FINCHLEY TO DEVELOP ONLY THE
MOST INTERESTING AND CORRECT
TYPE OF WEARABLES— AND IT IS
COMMONLY ACKNOWLEDGED THAT
THE CLOTHES, HATS, SHOES AND
HABERDASHERY FOR LOUNGE, BUSI-
NESS, SPORTS AND FORMAL USAGE
ARE QUITE INCOMPARABLE IN
EVERY DEGREE. EXHIBITIONS ARE
HELD. AT FREQUENT INTERVALS
IN VARIOUS CITIES OF IMPOR-
TANCE. IT WILL RESULT TO YOUR
ADVANTAGE TO ATTEND THESE
EXHIBITIONS WHEN NEAR YOU.

WRITE DEPARTMENT C FOR

 

 

 

EDGAR SYDENSTRICKER, ’02, is the author of
an essay published by the Milbank Memorial Fund of
New York City, entitled “The Measurement of Results
of Public Health Work” which has been widely re-
viewed. He was one of the principal speakers of the an-
nual meetings of the National Tuberculosis Association
at Indianapolis and of the American Statistical Associa-
tion at Washington. Recently he was named as a mem-
ber of the commission on vital statistics of the Inter-
national Institute of Statistics and also of the League

of Nations’ commission on the same subject. These

two bodies are an outgrowth of the League of Nations’
Service of Public Health Statistics of which he was
the organizer and first chief in 1922-24,

DR. JOHN SHARSHALL GRASTY, ’04, has been
appointed Chief Geologist of the American Manganese
Producers Association.

A SEDRON. JONES, JR., °99, is division Sales
Manager for the Virginia-Carolina Chemical Corpora-
tion, of Richmond, Va.

WALTER N. BOOTAY, ’09, of New York, a
well-known student at W. & L. twenty years ago, was
a recent visitor in Lexington. He had just returned
from Europe. | |

 

ILLUSTRATED CATALOG; ALSO
INFORMATION AS TO DATES
AND PLACES OF EXHIBITIONS.

 

FIFTH AVENUE AT FORTY SIXTH STREET
NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

t
|
|
i
f
|

 

40 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

FRANCIS FENTRESS, ’24, is working with the
Turner, Farber Love Company in Tchula, Miss.

The firm of MALONE & ELLIS (B. L. Malone, Jr.,
24, and Thomas J. Ellis, ’23), of Punta Gorda, Florida,
has been dissolved, the former firm member now prac-
tising independently with offices in the Dreggors build-
ing. ‘They will continue to be associated in all matters
in which the firm was previously engaged, but each of
the attorneys will be primarily responsible hereafter
for the respective matters heretofore handled by him.

W. E. BROCK, JR., ’25, Mission Ridge, Chatta-
nooga, Tenn., writes us: ‘Wish I were back at W.

& i?

BOB SMITH, ’26, is occupying the chair of Soci-
ology at Furman University this winter.

GRAHAM LYTLE, ’27, is making a fine start as
an independent house-builder in Beckley, West Va.

“SCRAM” SALE, ’27, has a position with the
Strother, Sale, Curd and Tucker law offices in Welch,
West Va.

HARRY SMITH SPIERS, ’27, is teaching Junior
High School work in Greensboro, with charge of
coaching athletics.

EK. T. (CURLY) SANDERS, ’27, is now studying —

law at Duke University.

PENDLETON TOMPKINS, ’27. now attending
Washington University Medical School, had an ex-
citing experience and a narrow escape in the tornado
which struck St. Louis recently. He was uninjured,
altho all the windows and doors in the building where
he was working were broken, and houses within a few
hundred yards were completely wrecked.

BORN. To Mr. and Mrs. Reginald Trotter a son,
Reginald F. Trotter, Jr., on November 27th.

MARRIED. Paul Elder, ex ’28, of Jonesboro, Ark.
was married on October 23rd to Miss Rubye Dye of
Parkin, Ark.

CARY R. BLAIN, ’03 and ’04, of Guerrant, Ky., re-
cently became Superintendent of Highland Institution in
Breathitt County, Kentucky. It is a home mission en-
terprise of the Presbyterian Church embracing orphan-
age, school, hospital, church and farm—training 150
mountain children and young people.

LAURENCE C. WITTEN, 710, writes us: ‘Life

Insurance, properly arranged, furnishes the only |

method by which a. man can by contract guarantee to
do for his dependents after he dies, what he hopes to
do if he lives. ‘That has been my work since leaving
college. I have continuously been inspired by the

growth of the business and by its appeal to college men
as a profession and as a means of building estates.”

DR. AND MRS. W. M. BROWN, 715, were
the guests of the D.A.R. chapter of Augusta county
at “Silverbrook” recently. Dr. Brown gave a
very interesting talk on some of Virginia’s great men.

PAUL C. THOMAS, 715, of Bluefield, West Va.,
writes us: “When I read in the ALUMNI MaAGazINneE of
the exploits and work of former class mates, and other
alumni of Washington and Lee, my own life seems
commonplace in comparison. I am in the wholesale
grocery business, being a member of the firm, Huff,
Andrews and Thomas Company. We operate six
wholesale grocery houses in this part of Virginia and
West Virginia. I have a girl and a boy at my house
who take up most of the time not devoted to the busi-
ness above mentioned. In addition to the above I am
a Past Commander of Bluefield Commandery No. 19,
Knights Templar, and have charge of the best Sun-
day School Orchestra in Bluefield.”

DR. AND MRS. T. PRESTON WHITE, ’16, and
little son were visitors at the home of Dr. Reid White,
Lexington, Va., for a week during November.

MR. WM. B. PATTERSON, ’21, of Staunton has
accepted the position of cub reporter and advertise-
ment chaser on the Gazette.

ROBERT M. BEAR, ’22, head of the department
of Education at Centre College, Danville, Ky., repre-
sented Washington and Lee at the inauguration of
President Charles J. Turck of Centre College.

RAYMOND SMITH, ’22, has been transferred to
another office of an allied company and is located at
17 Battery Place, New York City, with the Piedmont —
Finance Company.

MARRIED. R. Maurice (“Student”) Frew, ’23,
and Miss Rose Renfro of Rock Hill, S. C., were mar-
ried on December 6th. They will make their home in
Rock Hull.

THOS. HENRY CLAY, ’24, located at Paris, Ky.,
writes us: “My occupation is farming so you know I
have no more to tell. Enjoy your publication very
much.”

J. PRESTON MOORE, ’27, is at his home in
Lexington recuperating from an appendicitis opera-
tion. Mr. Moore had just started his professorship
at Davidson College when he was stricken with an
attack of appendicitis. He will resume his duties as
soon as he has recovered his strength.

R. V. MILBANK, ’27, of Plainfield, N. J., writes
us that he is “with the Engineering Department of
New Jersev Central Railroad and still running.”

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

ROANOKE TEACHERS HEAR DR. BROWN
DR. W. M. BROWN, of W. & L. U., who is one

of the teachers conducting the extension courses offered
by the University of Virginia, made the address at the
Roanoke Teachers’ Institute held at the Jefferson
High School auditorium recently. All of the teach-
ers of the city schools attended the meeting. ‘The
chief business of the body was the election of the
delegates to the State Educational Association which
was to meet in Richmond shortly thereafter.

a

J. FRED ESSARY WELL PLEASED WITH
| W. & L.

The student body assembly and the journalism ban-
quet at the Robert EF. Lee hotel, provided “two very
superior and responsive audiences,” J. Fred Essary,
Washington correspondent of the Baltimore Sun, who
addressed the two gatherings, wrote to President Smith
recently. Stating that he had “never faced so keenly
intelligent a body of young fellow Americans and
never felt so inadequate,” Mr. Essary was loud-spoken
in his praises of the reception accorded him here.

 

REPAIR WORK WILL BE DONE IN SPRING

Repair work to be done on the University roads
will probably not be started until the early spring,
according to Professor Hale Houston, who is in
charge of the work. The appropriation of $5,000 set
aside for this work by the Board of Trustees will not
become effective until after January 19th. At that
time, the Board will hold a meeting to approve the
suggestions made by Professor Houston. As it will
be impossible for the concrete work to be done during
the cold season, it is necessary that the repairs be de-
layed until the early spring.

——

Miss Blanche McCrum, librarian at Washington
and Lee University, who has been studying at Harvard
University during the summer, will remain in Boston
during the coming session studying at Boston Univer-
sity where she is an applicant for a degree. Miss
Rockwell is at present in charge of the library.

D. C. PORTER, ’27, writes us that he has “turned
student. Too bad! I’m taking graduate work in
Geology at the University of Oklahoma. Two years
will be required for my Master’s Degree.” :

DR. H. L. SMITH, recently addressed the Rotary

Club of Staunton who had as their guests sixty odd

S. M. A. boys, sons of Rotarians. The talk was
about the likeness between training for life and for
football.

 

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

“McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
_ OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Onexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

SER MAA OR i” BRAM ATR AT ANN SAIS.

So a en on ea a

Treat pn

‘|
rf
be
?
}
ie
it
2
i
;
i
it
i
i"
vt
i
4
i
i

 

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W. & L. BANQUET IN HELENA, ARKANSAS

Covers were laid for 31 at a well appointed four
course banquet table in Habib’s dining room at 6:30,
on the evening of December 27th,-when the alumni of
W. & L. entertained the local W. & L. students and
their fathers and several prospective students and
their fathers.

The college colors of blue and white were effectively
used in the decoration scheme of the table and dining
hall. An’ enjoyable program included talks by Mr.
Chas. Wooten and other alumni present, to which apt
responses were given by some of the students present.

The “Swing” and other Washington and Lee songs
were sung with enthusiasm.

A spirit of congeniality and pride and interest in
their Alma Mater was very strong among these
Washington and Lee men.

W. T. RIVIERE, ’12, COMMENTS ON
“SWING” IN LETTER TO J. R.
CASKIE

“Dear Caskie:

“A short time ago we exchanged letters about the
first use of the ‘W. & L. Swing’. Winding up what
I said in my last note about local high school football
prospects, let me add: Abilene, using the ‘Swing’
with a strong band and a big pep squad, gave Cle-
burne the worst licking in the latter’s history, 34-7.
As usher in the press box, I was behind the Abilene
band, and had to whistle the air with them. ‘The next
week at Waco I saw Waco beat Abilene 21-14, both
teams supported by singing of the same good old
tune, but the winners had the loudest band and used
the ‘Swing’ oftener. In a game which I did not see
this week, Waco further won 44-12 over a Cleveland
team which holds the Ohio championship. So the
music works.”’

eee

THE NEW CLASS SCHEDULE

The old order changeth. The routine of the tra-
ditional Virginia gentlemen at Washington and Lee
received a slight jolt when the faculty approved a more
modern class schedule under which students and fac-
ulty arise one half hour earlier, attend some classes
between 8:30 A. M. and 12:30 P. M., eat lunch and
return for class work between 1:30 and 3:30 P. M.

Ably sponsored, ably opposed, this proposed change
created an unexpected controversy in the faculty. Fi-
nally passed, many details of the new schedule remain
to be worked out and approved.

Non-partisan views of the change were favorable.
It appears to be a move toward more business like ac-
tivity; toward reducing the innocuous atmosphere of

leisure and luxury prevalent on the campus; toward
increased efficiency.
Exponents of more radical change might demand

‘more supervised study, more laboratory work in non-

scientific courses, seminar classes, faculty guidance of
student activities, faculty responsibility for student con-
duct (outside of class), as additional blows to the rou-
tine of the traditional Virginia gentlemen, as a consum-
mation of their modernizing program.

 

FLORIDA ALUMNI ENTERTAIN

The ever-active alumni association in Jacksonville,
assisted by C. T. Dawkins, °10, and some of his
Tampa alumni associates were “on the job’ for the
annual ‘Thanksgiving game this year.

In addition to turning over the keys of the city to
the team and to visiting alumni they held a most suc-
cessful banquet at which Governor Martin of Florida
was the chief speaker and guest of honor on the even-
ing after the game.

One of the features of this occasion was the pre-
sentation of a handsome silver loving cup to foot-
ball Capt. B. B. Tips by the Florida alumni in recog-
nition of his capable service as captain, his individual
playing ability and in appreciation of the team as a
whole for their splendid showing against the Univer-
sity of Florida Eleven during their three gridiron en-
gagements in Jacksonville.

 

WILLIAM W. MORGAN, ’26
(Continued from page 35)
was not variable as heretofore thought.
invaluable to Dr. Frost.
In addition to his work at Yerkes, Morgan attended
the University of Chicago and received his B. S. de-
gree in June, 1927; is working on his thesis for a
Master’s degree next spring.

At the Yerkes Observatory he takes photographs
of the sun and the moon, charts the paths of astral
bodies, evolves many facts from his observations, dis-
proving former theories; discovers new facts of scien-
tific importance; is becoming recognized as an au-
thority on astronomial subjects.

He became

 

Joe Bauserman, ’14, ’17, shot himself on January 3rd,
in the waiting room of the filling station where he had —
been working several years. Mr. Bauserman had given
up his practice of law and taken up work at the garage
to insure his being out of doors. Suicide was attributed
to despondency over 111 health.

 

DR. D. W. M. McCLUER, ’06, pastor of the Rose
City Park Community Church, Portland, Oregon,
since July 1, 1920, presided at the dedication of their
handsome new church building during the week of

October 2, Av27:

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W. MC. MARTIN, °95
(Continued from page 19).

and flying wedge with five yards to be gained in three
downs, when the eleven men that started the game
usually finished it, to the present open style of play
with the substitution of a new man when a player is
badly out of breath, with great interest.

Mr. Martin payed appreciative - tribute to the in-
spiring influence of the members of the faculty when
he was at Washington and Lee. He recalls parti-
cularly the training he received under Dr. H. A.
White and Dr. J. A. Quarles. To Dean H. D. Camp-
bell, then Professor Campbell and to Dr. J. L. Howe,
the only remaining members of the faculty of ’91-’95,
he has asked us to express his feeling of apprecia-
tion which he so genuinely feels for all of his pro-
fessors of that day.

oo,

W. JETT LAUCEK, 703.
(Continued from page 29)

nalls in 1916, was written in collaboration with an-
other prominent W. & L. alumnus, Edgar Syden-
stricker, B.A. ’02. |

At Washington and Lee Mr. Lauck was editor of

the Ring-tum Phi, editor of the Calyx, Santini meda-—
list and manager of the baseball team. He was a

member of the Kappa Sigma fraternity, of Theta Nu
Epsilon and Sigma.

GAYLORD J. STONE, 710
(Continued from page 33).

it.is the most perfect substitute for green food of
which we have any knowledge.’

“That’s the bare story of the first real discovery in
mixed feeds in many years. But after this there fol-
lowed months of careless work, delays and disappoint-
ments. Mr. Stone made many trips to California; he
‘sold’ his idea to the orange growers’ association; he
showed them how they could convert a useless by-
product into a source of revenue; he induced them to
invest some twenty-five thousand dollars in dehydra-
tion equipment and then signed a contract to take their
entire output of dehydrated orange peel and pulp —
after forestalling the efforts of one of America’s lar-
gest feed mills, to ‘beat him to it.’

“After the contract was signed and the machinery
installed, more months passed by while the operators
learned the proper method of dehydrating the oranges.
Finally in the late Spring of 1926, enough dehydrated
orange was assured.to warrant the Universal Mills in
incorporating this new ingredient in its ‘Superior’ Egg
Mash.”

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUN TY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND

PRINTERS

Office Equipment and Supplies

ROYAL DALTON

TYPEWRITERS ADDING MACHINES

~  SURBER |
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

 

SHERIDAN HOTEL

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

LARGE, COMFORTABLE ROOMS

REASONABLE RATES

 

 

 

 

ROOSEVELT
New York, N. Y

 

WILLARD
Washington, D. C.

 

CORONADO
St. Louis, Mo.

   
  

OAKLAND
Oakland, Calif.

   

WOLFORD
Danville, Ill.

   

See.) Se
ee

NEIL HOUSE

Columbus, O

 

CLAREMONT
Berkeley, Calif.

 

URBANA-LINCOLN
Urbana, Ill.

 

SCHENLEY
Pitesburgh, Pa.

MOUNT ROYAL
Montreal, Can.

These hotels are your hotels

  

BLACKSTONE
Chicago, Ill.

SENECA

Minneapolis, Minn. Rochester, NY

Special features are provided for our Alumni

Our alumni are urged to use Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels
when travelling, and when arranging for luncheons, ban-
quets and get-togethers of various sorts.

You will find at each Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel an
index of the resident Alumni of the participating colleges.
Think what this means when you are in a strange city
and wish to look up a classmate or friend. |

You will find at these hotels a current copy of your
Alumni publication.

You will also find a spirit of co-operation and a keen
desire to see you comfortably housed and adequately pro-
vided for. Reservations may be made from one Intercol-
legiate Alumni Hotel to another as a convenience to you.

Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels are a new and vital force
in assisting your Alumni Secretary. He urges you to sup-
port them whenever and wherever possible. He will be glad
to supply you with an introduction card to the managers
of all Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels, if you so request.

THE PARTICIPATING COLLEGES

e SSS z
PERE MARQUETTE

 

 

Peoria, Ill.

The alumni organizations of .the following colleges and universities are participants

in the Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel movement:

Colerads

Akron Maine Oregon State Virginia
Alabama Columbia M. 1. fF. Penn State Virginia
Amherst Cornell Michigan State Pennsylvania Polytechnic Institute
Antioch Cumberland Michigan Princeton Washington and Lee
Bates Emory Mills Purdue Washington State
Beloit Elmira Minnesota Radcliffe Washington (Seattle)
Bowdoin Georgia Missouri Rollins Washington (St. Louis)
Brown Georgetown College Montana Rutgers Wellesley
Bryn Mawr Goucher Mount Holyoke ~ Smith Wesleyan College
Bucknell Harvard Nebraska South Dakota Wesleyan University
Buffalo Illinois New York University Southefn California Western Reserve
California Indiana North Carolina Stanford Whitman
Carnegie Institute lowa State College North Dakota Stevens Institute Williams
Case School Kansas Northwestern Texas A. and M. Winthrop
Chicago — Teachers’ Coll. Oberlin Texas Wisconsin
College of the Kansas Occidental Tulane Wittenberg

City of New York Lake Erie Ohio State Union Wooster
Colgate Lafayette Ohio Wesleyan Vanderbilt Worcester 7
Colorado Lehigh Oklahoma Vassar Polytechnic Institute

School Mines Louisiana Oregon Vermont Yale

 

CALIFORNIAN
Fresno, Calif.

     

PALACE
San Francisco, Calif.

\
SAINT PAUL
St. Paul, Minn.

MULTNOMAH
Portland, Ore.

 

SINTON
Cincinnati, O.

 

 

 

 

ST JAMES WALDORF- ASTORIA ONONDAGA WOLVERINE BENJAMIN FRANKLIN
San Diego, Calif. : ‘ New York, N. Y Syracuse, N. Y Detroit, Mich. Philadelphia, Pa.

Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels

—

“SEarrce

poston

xt Pay TON
pw YoRK.

BLHILADELPH/A

      
       
 
    

   
 

ELEY
BERN CRAM ENTO art ino Ae
Sa KWLANO WASHINGTON

SAN FRANCISCO

@ SAN DIEGO

 

Every Dot Marks an Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel

Baltimore, Md., Southern Lincoln, Nebr., Lincoln Portland, Ore., Multonomah
Berkeley, Cal., Claremont Los Angeles, Calif., Biltmore Rochester, N. Y., Seneca
Bethlehem, Pa. Bethlehem Madison, Wis., Park Sacramento, Cal., Sacramento
Birmingham, Ala., Bankhead Minneapolis, Minn., Radisson St. Louis, Mo., Coronado
Boston, Mass., Copley-Plaza Montreal, Canada, Mount Royal St. Paul, Minn., Saint Paul
Chicago, Ill., Blackstone New Orleans, La., Monteleone San Diego, Cal., St. James
Chicago, Ill., Windermere New York, N. Y., Roosevelt San Francisco, Cal., Palace
Cincinnati, Ohio, Sinton New York, N. Y., Waldorf-Astoric Seattle, Wash., Olympic
Columbus, Ohio, Neil House Northampton, Mass., Northampton Syracuse, N. Y., Onondaga
Danville, Ill., Wolford Oakland, Cal., Oakland Toronto, Canada, King Edward
Detroit, Mich., Wolverine Peoria, Ill., Pere Marquette Urbana, IIl., Urbana-Lincoln
Fresno, Cal., Californian Philadelphia, Pa., Benjamin Franklin Washington, D. C., Willard
Kansas City, Mo., Muehlebach Pittsburgh, Pa., Schenley Williamsport, Pa., Lycoming

The Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel movement is sponsored by the Alumni Secretaries
and Editors of the participating colleges and directed by

INTERCOLLEGIATE ALUMNI EXTENSION SERVICE, 18 E. 41st St., New York, N.Y.

 

 

DIRECTORS
J.O. BAXENDALE STEPHEN K. LITTLE J. L. MORRILL W.B. SHAW
Alumni Secretary Princeton Alumni Weekly Alumni Secretary Alumni Secretary
University of Vermont Princeton University Ohio State University University of M.chigan
A. C. BUSCH JOHN D. McKEE . W.R. OKESON ROBERT SIBLEY
Alumni Secretary Wooster Alumni Bulletin Treasurer of Alumni Secretary
Rutgers College Wooster College Lehigh University ' University of California
R. W. HARWOOD HELEN F. McMILLIN R. W. SAILOR FLORENCE H. SNOW
Harvard Alumni Bulletin Wellesley Alumnae Magazine Cornell Alumni News Alumnae Secretary
sHarvard University Wellesley College Cornell University Smith College
E. N. SULLIVAN LEVERING TYSON E. T. T. WILLIAMS
Alumni Secretary Alumni Federation Brown University
Penn State College Columbia University

    

    

: = eee
KING EDWARD BANKHEAD BETHLEHEM LYCOMING SOUTHERN
Toronto, Can. Birmingham, Ala. Bethlehem, Pa. Williamsport, Pa. New Orleans, La. Baltimore, Md.

 

MUEHLEBACH
Kansas City, Mo.

 

COPLEY- PLAZA
Boston, Mass.

 

LINCOLN”
Lincoln, Neb.

 

WINDERMERE
Chicago, IIl.

 

OLYMPIC
Seattle, Wash.

 

SACRAMENTO
Sacramento, Calif.

 

PARK

 

NORTHAMPTON
Northampton, Mass.

 

a
Ai
al
f

a

 

 

 

S s “we a3

ee 5
Sa ae

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service

tee ey, on

DODGE BROTHERS CARS —

GARAGE oe

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50..and 75 Cents

 

 

 

 

~ BRICK from GLASGOW

EES NE Fe
7

 

ae 2 n | : \
Hd Hap Meer cto ot ce sae es HOTEL ROBERT E. LEE

hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at. the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it  offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You :
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly. Fireproof - - - 100 Rooms
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding. :

It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

Lexington, Va.

LGCHER ACO. Noe "| ltete. NEW” | MODERNE

Brick. Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials |

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

      
 

t
Specialists in College Printing
EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED
_ THE MICHIE CON {,
‘ Printers
Chivlatiesville: Va.
Quality Service Reasonable Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

 

 

 

A,

Pg Ra

