 

 

 

>

 

ew

Washington and Lee Universit

 

Volume V

 

$2.50 Per Year

OF

FEBRUARY, 1929

AS WE ARE TODAY
Airplane View

y

AS!

 

~ THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE:

 

Number |

 

25c Per Copy

 

LIBRARY OF

INGTON & LEE UNIVERS!

LEXINGTON, VA, 24450

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business

at a distance, or of a special professional character.
tion are in a position to be of service to the alumni of

rectory. Rates on application.

Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-
the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

 

 

 

 

THOS. F. OGILVIE
A'TTORNEY-AT-LAW

103 Guarantee Trust Bldg.,
Atlantic City, N. J.

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, Lawyer

~ General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 914 Union Bank & Trust Co. Bldg.,
Huntington, West Virginia

e

 

JACKSON, DUPREE & CONE

Citrus Exchange Building,
Tampa, Florida

W.H. Jackson, 08 J. W. Dupresr, ’21

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS
Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401 Philadelphia

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL,
SEAL AND Dick

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1400 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

R. EF. MOORE
AYTTORNEY-AT-LAW

Suite 303 First National Bank Bldg.,
Bluefield, W. Va.

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’18 and ’22
ATTORNEY-AT-LAW

DoucLas, Opgar & DoucrLas

Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

 

WE COLLECT IN ANY CITY IN
THE UNITED STATES

K. & T. ADJUSTMENT BUREAU
Reports, COLLECTIONS, INVESTIGATIONS
All Business Strictly Confidential

Room 206 Kleeman Building, Summers St.
Charleston, W. Va.

Walter EF. McDougle, LL.B., ’91
Robert B. McDougle, B.A., 717, L1,.B., ’20

McDOUGLE and McDOUGLE
ATTORNEYS-A?T-LAWw
25-27-29 Citizens National Bank Building
Parkersburg, W. Va.

 

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, ’13
ATTORNEY AT LAW

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

 

Compliments of the President of the
Alumni, Inc.

kK. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

 

ALEX M. HITZ

ATTORNEY AT LAw

210 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlanta, Georgia

James E.. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
LAw OFFICES

Commercial National Bank Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, 710

General Agent
Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Harvard and Ohio State are represented in this Agency. There are usually

one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

Applications from W. and L. alumni have the preference.

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia 3
E. C. Carrrey, President VERBON F,. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GrauaM, Jr., Treasurer Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

PAGE

Uhe vem fe. 2 Pee Associations. 2 fe
AGmanisttation 9. =. eh oa 5 Pie rabilia a
Quo Vadiss-An Editorial (0°,.....0. 2. 11 Wee tcton Colleae =.
The Racuhiy 42.9. 2 ee 12 ee
Politics 6... eee eee eee eee eee tee te Pe ee ee es
Siudemr Wedy ......0 3. eo eo oe 1S ee ee
Athign¢s (90 ul oe. : Vi ee
Algmin 30: 2 es Zl ee ee oe
Homecomme May, Nov 2 oe 22

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

Special: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON

(Prices on application)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid eee 8,
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

=

DOREMUS GYMNASIUM

Matmen, Mitmen, Mermen and Merry Masqueraders

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

VoL. V

FEBRUARY, 1929

No. 1-

 

THE YEAR

University of Alabama President, Washington and
Lee President-elect, George H. Denny, visited Lex-
ington; was greeted with torches and trumpets, by
roaring student cheers, and transported in a student-
drawn tally-ho (vintage 1900); was entertained and
solicited; departed by way of Charlottesville and the
W. & L.-Va. football game, for home and serious
pondering; concluded that it would be impracticable
to accept the proffered post; regretfully refused the
presidency of Washington and Lee.

Fight defeats and two victories marked the rout of
Blue and White Gridiron aspirations for 1928; ended
the service of many able gridmen. Football coach, J.
P. (“Pat”) Herron, tendered his resignation, left a
unanimous host of well wishers. The Athletic Coun-
cil set about to find a suitable successor.

Alumni returned for the annual homecoming cele-
bration, Saturday, November 17, met in the Lee
Chapel, lunched as guests of the University at the
Alumni Building, witnessed the Vio ee PP. 1
game, were entertained at a buffet supper in the Din-
ing Hall.

Alumni trustees met, re-elected able, loyal and gen-

erous alumnus Judge E.. C. Caffrey, ’09, of Newark,

N. J., as president and a trustee, and able, loyal and
generous alumnus Samuel O. Laughlin, ‘14, of
Wheeling, West Va., as a trustee of the Alumni As-
sociation, Inc.

Alumni met, banqueted and attended to business in
New York City, Friday, November 9th; in Jackson-
ville, Fla., on Thanksgiving Day; in Memphis, Tenn.,
December 1; in San Antonio, Tex., December 8th; in
Lynchburg, Va., January 9; in Washington, D. C.,
and in New Orleans, La., Founders’ Day, January
1th,

An alumni “contact”? committee was graciously re-
ceived by University trustees, was invited to advise
with the trustees’ committee on the presidency, coop-
erated effectively under the able chairmanship of
Alumni Association trustee J. Morrison Hutcheson,
02, M. D., of Richmond, Va.

Trustees pondered over the grave problem of se-
curing a sticcessor to retiring President Henry Louis
Smith, met in Lexington with representatives of the
Faculty and of the Alumni Association, Inc., ex-
changed ideas, recognized a_ natural partnership ;
quietly cor:tinued their investigations, postponed their
decision for further deliberation.

Basketball loomed brilliantly as a flashy court quin-
tet traveled to decisive victories over their first six
opponents. Optimistic supporters envisioned a South-
ern Conference Championship.

Mr. Henry E.. Litchford, Richmond banker, grace-
fully and generously presented the University with
wrought iron gratings and gates for the Lee Chapel
at an informal assembly there on Founders’ Day.

Alumnus, trustee, banker, W. McC. Martin, 795,
of St. Louis, Mo., spoke interestingly and entertain-
ingly at the annual Founders’ Day Assembly, Satur-

day, Jan. 19; was received with affectionate appre-

ciation.

Students stood in the stern shadows of looming
mid-year examinations, labored frantically over notes
and reviews, wrote masterpieces in volume if not in
content, heaved sighs of relief or regret.

Students postponed the annual Fancy Dress Ball
until Washington’s birthday, Feb. 22, planned to live
a thousand nights in one, to reproduce the Arabian
Nights in stupendous spectacular ‘Bal Oriental.”

Sg
¢

ADMINISTRATION
PRESIDENT’S FOUNDERS’ DAY REPORT:

Since our Founders’ Day meeting a year ago, when
the University was profited by an eloquent message
from Judge McDermott, the University has enjoyed a
very prosperous year.

The faculty now numbers fifty of professorial rank
and seven regular instructors with degrees. The total
number -of matriculates has been held to 910.

Scholastic Items:

The following are some of the important scholastic
events of the past twelve months:

1. The completion and formal opening of the Lee
Museum occupying the first floor of the Lee Chapel.

2. The furnishing and formal opening of the com-
modious Alumni Club Rooms on Washington Street,
through the zeal of our Alumni Secretary Verbon
Kemp. |

3. The annual meeting during the last week of
March of the Virginia Biological Society as the guest
of Washington and Lee. :

4. The annual convention, distribution of prizes,
and social gatherings of the Southern Interscholastic

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Press Association, May 11th and 12th, under the aus-
pices of our Lee Memorial School of Journalism.

5. The Commencement exercises on June 5th when
degrees were conferred on 117 students.

6. The psychological examinations and_ orienta-
tion exercises given the new students during the
opening week beginning September 11th.

7. The meeting of the Board in October and their
receipt and acceptance of the President’s request to
be granted retirement at the age of seventy on July

19929.

8. The receipt during the summer of the formal
report of three experts employed by the President
and Board to examine the present curriculum of W.
& L. and its possible reconstruction as recommended
by the President.

Grounds and Buildings:

The past year has been marked by many improve-
ments in the grounds and ejuipment of the Univer-
sity.

These include the repairing and painting of Reid
Hall and four professors’ residences, the furnishing
of another residence with radiators and a_ pipe-line
connecting with our heating system, and the con-
struction of a new steam pipe line to the Graham
Dormitory.

Under the supervision and planning of Mr. Peas-
lee, our landscape architect, a parking space, road-
ways, etc., have been constructed west of the Me-
morial Gateway near the Lee Chapel, and new ce-
ment roadways and sidewalks have been constructed
south of the library connecting it with Washington
Street and the gymnasium, and with the Memorial
Gateway. The amount spent on these improvements
was about $12,000.

During the past year, designed by Mr. Peaslee and
financed by the students and the athletic association,
a very handsome Memorial Bridge of reinforced ce-
ment has been built across the Woods Creek gorge
connecting the Gymnasium plaza with the center of
the enlarged Athletic Field. No addition to our
equipment has been greeted with more universal en-
thusiasm than this stately and beautiful bridge, which
doubles the value and accessibility of the athletic
field and the beauty of this section of the campus.

Financial Matters:

Direct gifts of money during the year mainly for
the general endowment, the Burks Memorial En-
dowment, and a Lee Chapel endowment amount to

$102,000.

The total cost of the Memorial Bridge when the

eastern approaches are completed will probably ex-

ceed $40,000, and the completion and cementing of
the parking areas in the front and rear of the gym-
nasium will cost six or seven thousand more.

The bridge as it stands has been paid for by the
student subscriptions and money advanced by the
Athletic Association, the present debt amounting to
only $6,000.

During the year, through Mr. Kemp’s office, sub-
scriptions to the Burks Fund have been secured
amounting to approximately $20,000 and nearly
$9,000 paid in. Subscriptions to the Memorial
Bridge amounting to over $30,000 have been se-
cured and over $9,000 collected. Nearly $29,000
has also been collected on old campaign pledges to
the general endowment and approximately $2,000 on
School of Journalism pledges.

The grounds, buildings, and general equipment of
the University are today in better condition than
since I first became acquainted with them. ‘The con-
struction of parking areas in connection with the
gymnasium and the completion of the very hand-
some eastern entrance to the Memorial Bridge, both
already designed by our landscape architect, will un-
doubtedly be completed before the close of the next
collegiate year.

REPORT OF ALUMNI AND EXECUTIVE SEC-
REPARY POR 1928:

FINANCIAL
Burks Fund:

For the establishment of a new professorship in the
Law School in memory of the late Judge Martin P.
Burks, ’70, alumni and friends have subscribed
$19,991.67 ; of that amount they have paid in $8,604.17
to secure a credit of $4,302.08 from the General Edu-
cation Board—thus making a total of $24,293.75 sub-
scribed. !

Class Bridge Fund:

Students pledged $30,705 for the erection of the
new Wilson Field footbridge. Of this amount
$9,387.50 has been paid in. The bridge has been com-
pleted under the direction of the W. & L. Athletic As-
sociation.

Collections:

In payment on old pledges to the Endowment Fund
$28,584.25 have been received; to the School of
Journalism Fund $1,882.52.

Miscellaneous:

A set of Law books costing $400 was voluntarily
given by an alumnus to the Law Library; another
alumnus made a voluntary gift of $150 to the Endow-
ment Fund.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

ALUMNI
Organization:

The Washington and Lee Alumni Association, Inc.,
has elected to membership on its Board of Directors
during the year, John L.. Campbell, ’09, of Lexington;
Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02, of Richmond; C. T.
Chenery, ‘09, of New York City, and Samuel O.
Laughlin, 14, of Wheeling, West Va.; has re-elected
Judge E. C. Caffrey, ’09, of Newark, New Jersey, as
president. |

Repair and furnishing of the old McLaughlin
house for use as Alumni Headquarters has been
completed at a cost of $2,300, which was paid in by
alumni and friends.

Thirteen local organizations have been active in
strategic centers throughout the country during the
year.

Publications:

After four years of bi-monthly publication the
self-supporting ArumMNi MacazIne_ will inaugurate
a monthly publication schedule in 1929. It now has
approximately 1500 paid subscribers.

Spirit:

With a coherent and effective internal organiza-
tion perfected the Alumni Association has prepared
itself to be of more effective and productive service
to the University. Closer cooperation between the
administrative officers and Faculty, a more intimate
relationship with the University Board of Trustees
and a more active participation in University affairs
by the individual alumni membership have been
achieved during 1928.

Respectfully submitted,
VERBON FE. Kemp.
POUNDERS DAY:

In 1916 the University Board of Trustees desig-
nated January 19th, the anniversary of General Rob-
ert Lee's birth, as founders Vay," = * to
be observed annually, forever, with appropriate com-
memorative exercises, including an address upon
some subject, before the president, faculty, officers,
student body, alumni and friends of the University,

by some speaker of high character and distinction,
eee

Gift:

Commemorative exercises this year appropriately
included the formal presentation of an exquisite
wrought-iron grating, gate and Lee coat-of-arms,

erected in the arch between the room enshrining Val-

entine’s recumbent statue and the main body of the
Chapel, by Mr. Henry EF. Litchford, Chairman of
the Union Bank and Federal Trust Company, of
Richmond, Va.

 

A Litcurorp Girr—A Lirtcurorp Herro

Before assembled trustees, faculty, students and
friends in the Chapel Mr. Litchford called attention
to the tribute paid the memory of Robert E. Lee by
architect J. Binford Walford, whose services were
voluntarily donated, by the manufacturers who vol-
untarily provided and erected the grating at actual
cost; expressed appreciation for the privilege of
making that addition to the mausoleum of his hero
and idol, Robert E. Lee.

Rector George W. St. Clair, ’90, appreciatively
received and acknowledged the gift in behalf of the
University.

The new grating is a dignified and harmonious ad-
dition to the simple beauty of the Lee Chapel. It
replaces an inappropriate wire fencing, affords more
protection, is more decorative.

Assembly:

Trustees and robed professors led the procession
of senior students into the gymnasium for the annual
‘Founders’ Day assembly, which was opened with
prayer by Trustee W. Lapsley Carson, ’14; heard
President Henry Louis Smith report on the year’s
work.

W. McChesney Martin, ’95, governor and founder
of the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank, was the
“speaker of high character and distinction.” He

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W. McCursngey Martin, 795

Freshman Trustee, Founders’ Speaker

won his audience with a broad smile which brought
sustained applause before a word was spoken. He
interrogated ‘What is education,’ spoke of early
procedure, modern conditions, future ideals; was
again and again applauded. (Full text will appear
in the next issue of the A,UmMNr MacaziInt.)
Students adjourned with the “Swing” and a ben-
ediction, spent their holiday in grinding, cramming
review for portentous mid-year examinations.

TRUSTEES’ MEETING, JANUARY 19TH:

Members Present:

Rector Geo. W. St. Clair, William A. Anderson,
John S. Munce, Dr. W. Mc. White, H. B. Sproul,
Dr. “Geo. B. Lee, Judge Chas. J. McDermott,..J. me
Caskie, Rev. W. L. Carson, W. McC. Martin.

New Trustee:

Wm. McChesney Martin, of the Federal Reserve
Bank of St. Louis, took oath of office.

Committee on Nomination:

Committee on Nomination of President reported
progress and asked to be continued.

 

Board Approved:

Board approved the general plan of Prof. Ellard
for the establishment of a newspaper and printing
plant for the School of Journalism to be used as a
practical laboratory for that school upon condition
that the plan be carried out without cost to the Uni-
versity, and the Rector was authorized to appoint a
committee of two members of the Board to work
in conjunction with Mr. Ellard in putting the plan
into effect.

Resolution:

Board passed a resolution of thanks to Mr. H. E.
Litchford, of Richmond, Virginia, for the handsome
gates and grill for the Lee Mausoleum, presented by
him to the University.

THE PRESET CY:

Dr. Denny:

Flaming torches lighted the avenues. <A_ student
band played. Expectant students cheered lustily,
drew an ancient stage coach up the station hill to
the Post Office corner. In the driver’s seat sat stu-
dent body president John Bell Towill. Beside him
sat one-time president George H. Denny, just ar-
rived to look over the field before responding to his
re-election to the presidency of Washington and Lee.

Preceding his visit Dr. Denny entertained two
Washington and Lee alumni, Walter N. Bootay, ’11,
and F. A. C. Hoge, ’08, in his University of Ala-
bama home. To them he spoke of a medical exam-
ination, of his physician’s advice against further
nervous strain. Clyde Hoge replied, “We want you
to try a Washington and Lee doctor.”

At Lexington Dr. and Mrs. Denny were enter-
tained by Dr. and Mrs. J. L. Howe, received many
callers and well wishers. Dr. Denny spoke before
an informal student assembly; at a football rally;
conversed with Faculty leaders, with retiring presi-
dent Henry Louis Smith; reviewed records; worked
for a perspective on Washington and Lee’s place in
the field of education; departed for Charlottesville to
witness the W. & L.-Va. game.

Back in his Alabama office, Dr. Denny reviewed
his findings, reviewed his physician’s advice; pro-
jected the physical needs of the institution and the
physical limitations of the individual upon the same
mental screen, was dissatisfied with the picture; re-
gretfully declined the proferred post by telegraph to
Rector George W. St. Clair, 792.

Dr. Smith:

At Lexington retiring president Henry Louis
Smith received letters and editorials of regret, ap-
preciation and high commendation; spoke at a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

Thanksgiving celebration in Chattanooga, at a civic
Sroup meeting in Staunton, at a celebration in
Lynchburg; made plans for his future residence in
Greensboro, N. C.; prepared and delivered his an-
nual report; dealt with schemes for the advancement
of the Department of Journalism; laid plans for in-
suring next year’s enrollment.

Partners:

“Dr. Denny refused. Now where are we?” asked
a distinguished alumnus. ‘To answer this question
the able committee of the University Board of Trus-
tees, the advisory committee of the Faculty, and a
special alumni committee labored ceaselessly; sep-
arately considered data, recommendations and_ sug-
gestions. The trustees’ committee on the presidency
was appointed by the Board. The Faculty committee
is authorized under the University Constitution and
By-laws. The Alumni committee was authorized by
the Alumni Ass’n, Inc., and graciously invited for
consultation by the Trustees’ committee.

Hospitality and good food distinguished the Dutch
Inn, famed Lexington hostelry. Chosen representa-
tives of the Trustees, Faculty and Alumni lunched
informally there Friday, Jan. 18th, evidenced the
long standing partnership in Washington and Lee
University; later met in more formal session for the
discussion of the question at hand, advised, con-
sulted, recommended. |

Presiding was Trustee John S. Munce, chairman;
present were committeemen George W. St. Clair, ’91,
rector, and H. B. Sproul, 94. Attending were trus-
tees Harrington Waddell, ’92; J. R. Caskie, ’06, and
W. McC. Martin, 95; President Henry Louis Smith
and Treasurer Paul M. Penick, 96; Faculty Chair-
man H. 1D) Campbell, “82, Dr B.D. Master, Dr. G.
De Hancock Dea WV. il. Vioreianmd, OG Prof. FE. K.
Paxton, 709, and Dr. W. G. Bean; Alumni Chairman
J. Morrison Hutcheson, 02, John L. Campbell, ’09,
and Alumni Secretary Verbon EF. Kemp, ’20.

EXPRESSIONS:

Alumni, collectively and individually; newspapers,
editorially and the public generally have expressed

sincere interest in the election of Washington and

Lee’s next president. These expressions voice re-
spect for our history and traditions, appreciative
recognition of President Smith’s distinguished serv-
ices, thoughtful conceptions of Washington and Lee’s
future course in education.

Compositely stated the advice most generally given
is: “Make an unhurried, detailed and thorough sur-
vey of the educated and Christian men of national
prominence, southern birth and cultural background,
of proven administrative and executive ability, of

 

 

 

 

 

J. Morrrson Hurcueson, 02, M.D.

*Contack

broad and human contacts, and secure the best at
whatever cost.”

ous, Vo is

Final authority and responsibility for the election
of President Smith’s successor rests with the Wash-
ington and Lee Board of Trustees. Working quietly,
ceaselessly and efficiently the ‘Trustees’ nominating
committee considers every recommendation and sug-
gestion carefully, solicits the opinions of alumni and
friends.

The committee cannot be in agreement with every
suggestion received, will find many recommendations
at variance. But they are genuinely anxious to con-
sider every expressed opinion and secure every avail-
able recommendation before making their nomina-
tion.

Expressions from alumni concerning the future
educational policy of the institution, the type of man
deemed most needed for the presidency or recom-
mending individuals will be appreciatively welcomed
by Mr. John S. Munce, care Kingan and Company,
Richmond, Va., Chairman of the Nominating Com-
mittee, or Mr. George W. St. Clair, Tazewell, Va.,
Rector of the Board.

ee ee
e

WELLS LITTLE, ’27, is security manager for
the United States Fidelity & Guaranty Company.

10 : THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ALUMNI RECOMMENDATIONS ON THE
= PRESIDENCY :

The undersigned constitute a committee created
by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Inc., at their
annual meeting, Nov. 17th, 1928, to serve as a me-
dium for keeping the alumni in touch with the Uni-
versity Board. This committee is authorized to con-
fer with the Board in the matter of selecting a presi-
dent or in any other matter upon which the Board
desires or is willing to receive the views of the
Alumni.

Since its appointment this committee has made an
earnest effort to put itself in touch with leading
alumni throughout the country and believes that it is
qualified to express the prevailing sentiment among
the alumni as a whole. We take it that the occasion
of our attending this conference calls for a frank ex-
pression of such views as we have on the matter of
selecting a president and on the general situation at
Washington and Lee. As this is done from the
standpoint of those who love the institution and have
her welfare at heart, but who are not intimately ac-
quainted with her affairs, we ask your indulgence
for whatever may appear irrelevant or presumptuous.

It would seem to us necessary that, before finally
electing a chief executive, some definite educational
policy for the institution be agreed on. This
would facilitate negotiations with a prospective pres-
ident and at the same time obviate certain misunder-
standings that might in future arise between the
Board, the Faculty and the President.

It 1s apparent that the trend today, particularly in
state supported institutions, is away from the cul-
tural and toward the vocational type of education.
Whether this tendency is sound or not and how far
Washington and Lee can or should go in this direc-
tion are questions that, in our opinion, require at
least a tentative solution. We are mindful of the
purpose for which our school was founded and that
for most of its existence it has been a classical or
liberal arts college. We feel that this function should
be perpetuated as a central idea rather than sub-
merged in a group of professional or vocational de-
partments as appears to be the case in some schools.

While the popular mind is apt to judge the suc-
cess of an enterprise by the volume of its activities,
we do not find among our thoughtful alumni any
fixed ambition toward a great increase in the num-
ber of students. To us this is not a matter of pri-
mary importance. We have learned with pride that
in recent years more students have sought admission
than could, in the judgment of those in authority,
be properly taught. This condition permits of a cer-
tain amount of selection and should continue to ex-

ist in a great school. Expansion may be considered
as pressure for admission increases.

It is also obvious that there is an inclination today
to relieve the student so far as possible from any ex-
pense as regards his teaching irrespective of his fi-
nancial status. To us the policy recently adopted by
the University of extending financial help to a few
deserving and needy students rather than distributing
it among the student body generally has much to
commend it and we trust that this plan will be per-
manent. Nevertheless, we realize the necessity for
an increase in endowment sufficient to insure proper
remuneration of the best type of teachers and main-
tain the University in a secure financial condition.

Having determined the type of educational oppor-
tunities to be offered, the number of students to be
accommodated for the present and the amount of
financial help to be given each student, it should be
comparatively easy to estimate the size of an endow-
ment sufficient to meet these requirements.

To put this policy into effect and to secure the
necessary endowment will be the task of a new ex-
ecutive. Certainly to the Alumni a clear and frank
definition of the position of Washington and Lee
among educational institutions along the lines indi-
cated above would be most welcome.

As to the selection of a president, we feel that no
consideration, however pressing, should outweigh the
desirability of deferring definite action until a broad
and searching survey of all possible prospects has
rendered further investigation: needless. Such a sur-
vey is difficult and laborious, but unless good  for-
tune intervenes, it will doubtless be necessary.

Alumni sentiment as regards the type of man for
president is strongly in favor of an executive rather
than a scholar. He should be a man preferably of
proven administrative ability and talent for organi-
zation; of dynamic personality and with sufficiently
broad contacts to secure endowment.

While it is generally felt that our president should
have definite religious affiliation, there is strong op-
position to the idea of restricting the field of choice
to any particular denomination.

While the alumni as a whole favor no particular
man and are opposing none, it might be well to state,
at least by way of illustrating their views, that the
name most frequently mentioned is Newton D.
Baker.

Joun L. CampsBe.y, 711

E. C. Carrrey, ’09

Wm. ALLAN, 702

VeRBON EF. Kemp, ’20

J. Morrtson Hurtcueson, ’02, Chairman.

°
%t

 

) <> (SD SEED () ED () DED (RED 0 <RED-() RED (<DD> () <---> 0-0) ED EE () ED (D(A () ED (D-DD () ED (SEP () < () ED-(4)

v,
“e

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

-

QUO VADIS

An Editorial

Two harassed and beleaguered teachers retreated haltingly along the dusty
Appian Way. Ahead, catacombs offered refuge among tombs. Beyond, broad,
sweeping plains and indefinite Romagnan hills offered scattering shelter. Near-
by, the narrow muddy ‘Tiber offered ‘escape. But a Voice spoke from a_ vision,
gently queried “Whither goest thou?’”’, returned the fugitives to Rome and their
predestined task.

Hallowed by footprints in stone, a little chapel now marks the legendary
spot.

‘Today educational institutions are beleaguered and harassed. All proceed
haltingly; some bury themselves; many spread thinly over vast areas; others
limit themselves to specific channels.

Complex modern conditions, aimless wealth, new and radical demands, have
routed educational forces, affrighted leaders, deflected sane efforts.

In her simplicity Washington and Lee is partially free from the confusion
of major conflict, is fortunately detached by location and inheritance. But she
too is in a period of transition; stands poised for direction, for an answer to
the question “Whither goest thou?”—an answer which should precede the
election of a new chief executive.

As an institution of learning are we to haunt the tombs of a hoary ascetic
past, even tho they enshrine Christian martyrs? Are we to expand broadly as
befits the State Universities and compete with them throughout Romagna?
Are we to limit ourselves to the specialized channels of technological or pro-
fessional education? Or, are we to return to Rome and our predetermined
task, fulfill our traditional function; be a college distinctive among institutions
of learning?

Faculty members, trained and experienced, are qualified to offer accept- _
able recommendations. ‘Trustees, far-sighted and practical, are qualified to re-
ceive, consider and if need be, amend,—to give authoritative direction.

With our future course definitely charted, the incoming president will com-
mit himself to its adoption and execution by acceptance of the proffered post,
will have the commitment of Faculty and alumni to the authorized policy; to
prospective students, inquiring parents and potential benefactors he can con-
vincingly answer the question “Whither goest thou?”

4
7.
%,@

\ ae. () a. () GE. () 4

 

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE FACULTY
ABED:

Dr. F. L. Riley, professor of History, is on leave
of absence due to serious illness; has been under
treatment at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore;
is recuperating slowly at his Lexington home.

The History department was further handicapped
during the late fall by the illness of Prof. Ollinger
Crenshaw, 725. |

A December scourge of Influenza crowded the
Jackson Hospital with student patients, confined
many able professors to their homes. Among those
afflicted. were: Dr. W. D: Hoyt, professor of Biol-
ogy, Dr. B. D. Easter, Assistant Dean and Professor
of Romance Languages, Dean W. H. Moreland, ’06,
of the Law School, Frank Gilliam, °17, of the Eng-
lish department and President Henry Louis Smith.

English Professor Fitzgerald Flournoy, ’22, devel-

oped pneumonia from an attack of Influenza. Upon.

recovery he went to Florida for recuperation.

Dr. R. G. Campbell, ’98, popular professor of Po-
litical Science, who was away on leave all of last
year because of a nervous and physical breakdown,
was back on the job this fall; has fully recovered.

A-BROWN-ING:

Able and energetic Dr. William M. Brown, 714,
professor of Education and Psychology, is busied
with a multitude of things. Among other activities
Dr. Brown addressed the student body of the Uni-
versity of Richmond; as the National Secretary and
a founder, initiated new members of Omicron Delta
Kappa, honorary fraternity, there; supervised the

 

Dr. Wn. Brown

psychological examination of seventy-five Eastern
Virginia game wardens at the direction of State
Game and Fish Commissioner A. Willis Robertson,
Lexingtonian; attended the Thanksgiving conference
of Virginia teachers at Richmond; met during Christ-
mas holidays in biennial national convention with
representatives of Square and Compass, collegiate
masonic organization of which he is National Secre-
tary; was re-elected vice-president of the Southern
Field Council of the Y. M. C. A. at the annual
meeting of that organization at Decatur, Ga.:
planned to attend the national convention of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa at the University of Alabama,
March Ist and 2nd.

AND HOWE:

students call him “Daddy,” fellow Kiwanians call
him “Howdy.” He is the versatile, renowned, amia-
ble, practical Dr. James Lewis Howe, Professor of
Chemistry and Dean of Applied Science, whose dig-
nity does not repulse such liberties, whose distin-
guished achievements do not bar the humanities.

During the early fall Dr. Howe spoke before the
Detroit section of the American Chemical Society on
the Amenities of Platinum, deplored feminine con-
sumption of ornamental platinum. Later he received
a portrait of Karlvorich Klaus, Russian discoverer
of Ruthenium from N. Karnokov, director of the
Institute for Investigation of Platinum metals at
Leningrad, in appreciation of his research in the
platinum field. Betimes, Dr. Howe entertained Pres-
ident-elect George H. Denny; rejoiced at the birth

 

De J. L. Howse
Snails and Postage Stamps

of a grand-daughter to his son, J. L. Howe, Jr., ’20,
at Shanghai, China; studied snails, postage stamps
and foreign missions; contemplated retirement; took
a vacation trip to Birmingham, Ala.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 1S

HERE AND THERE:

Professors keep apace in their respective fields
through national organizations, meet and convene for
the interchange of ideas. Convening during the past
three months were:

Dr. W. D. Hoyt. Prot TH. Stow and Prof: kK.
G. McDormon with the American Society for the
Advancement of Science in New York City.

Professors FE. K. Paxton, ’07, and H. Gray Funk-
houser, ’21, with the American Mathematical So-
ciety in New York City.

Professor and Coach Forest Fletcher and Gradu-
ate Manager and Coach R. A. (“Dick”) Smith, with
the Southern Intercollegiate Athletic Conference at
Knoxville, Tenn. , |

Dr. D. B. Easter with the National Interfraternity
Council in New York City.

Dean H. D. Campbell, 82, with the Association of

Colleges and Secondary Schools of the Southern
' States in Fort Worth, Texas. (See Dean’s Pere-
erinations, page 23.)

Miss Blanche McCrum, librarian, and Miss Helen
Rockwell, assistant librarian, with the Virginia Li-
brary Association in Norfolk.

Prof. Charles P. Light, Jr., with the Law Teach-
ers’ Association in Chicago, Ill.

Dr. Robert H. Tucker and Dr. William M. Brown,
14, with the State Teachers’ Conference in Rich-
mond. |

Dr. Thomas J. Farrar with the Interfraternity
Council at Lexington, of which he was _ re-elected
president.

ONE PROF. TO ANOTHER:

Dr. W. T. Lyle, Professor of Engineering, was
elected president of the Lexington Kiwanis Club, to
succeed Dr. J. Lewis Howe, who was elected a K1-
wanis trustee.

MARKER SPEAKER:

Prof. Fitzgerald Flournoy, of the English depart-
ment, spoke at the unveiling of a marker to Robert
E. Lee on the Dixie Highway in Ohio, near the
West Virginia line.

TUGRKERS:

Tucker—it is an old Virginia name long associ-
ated with Washington and Lee.

J. Randolph:

Richmond, Confederate capital, was being evacu-
ated. Gold remaining in the Confederate Treasury
was dispersed to Confederate officials, John Ran-

 

JoHN RANDOLPH TUCKER
Confederate Gold into Law Books

dolph Tucker, Attorney General, refused his share—
$500, became professor of Law at Washington Col-
lege, founded the Law Library with the twenty-five
unclaimed golden double eagles; became Dean of the
Law School, served ably until 1897, contributed ef-
fectively to the preparation of Washington and Lee’s
most famed and distinguished alumni lawyers.

H. St. George:

Not least among distinguished pupils of “Old
Kan’ was his son, Harry St. George, MAS LI.B.,
who practised law, represented his district for two
terms in Congress; became professor of Law, Dean
of Law and acting president of Washington and
Lee: wrote and edited authoritative treatises on Con-
stitutional Law; directed and assisted in fund rais-
ing enterprises for the construction of the Law

building—Tucker Hall, in memory of his distin-

guished father, and for the foundation of the Brad-
ford Law professorship; was president of the James-

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

town Exhibition Co.; again entered the U. 5. House
of Representatives in 1922.

During the late political upheaval Mr. Tucker, old
line Democrat, was re-elected to Congress by a sub-
stantial margin. Betimes he called upon President
Coolidge at Swannanoa, Thanksgiving Virginia
White House; recalled some Civil War experi-
ences; spoke inimitably at the famed Lee-Jackson
Confederate dinner in Lexington; took his place as
an “anomaly” in Congress; irrevocably holds a place
in the affection and admiration in the hearts of
Washington and Lee alumni and friends.

Robert H.:

Unrelated, but a Virginian of another old line of
Virginia T'uckers widely connected in the eastern
part of the State is Dr. Robert H. Tucker, professor
of Economics and Business Administration at Wash-
ington and Lee, able teacher, quiet and studious trail
blazer under the auspices of the State government
and the State Chamber of Commerce, for the pres-
ent highly lauded and telling “Progressive Move-
ment in Virginia,” who effectively unites the book
lined cloister’s cell with the open road of practicality.

State wide influence broadens into national with
the publication of an account of the “Virginia Re-
organization Program” by Dr. Tucker in the Na-
tional Municipal Review of November, 1928; the

 

Dr. Ropert H. TucKEr °
—Cloister’s Cell to Open Road

publication of “Our Unstable Standard of Value”
in the U. S. Banker for December 28, and its re-
printing ‘in pamphlet form at the request ol. the
Stable Money Association; the publication in the
American Labor Legislation Review of an address
prepared for presentation at the special session of
the American Association for labor legislation in
Chicago, December 28, on the subject of ‘Work-
men’s Compensation and the Employer” (to appear
in their March issue). The article in the U. S.
Banker cn “Our Unstable Standard ot Value”
brought considerable comment from the Federal Re-
serve Board and created a wide and favorable dis-
cussion throughout the country.

Born in, and long identified with, Southern Vir-
ginia, Dr. Tucker was educated at William and
Mary, University of Chicago, University of Wis-
consin, and at Brunswick, Germany; taught at Okla-
homa, A. & M. College, became its vice-president,
came to Washington and Lee in 1915, was elected

to his present professorship in 1919.

“Veo Pag

Yellow men warred with one another, plundered
and pillaged, threatened the lives of Christian mis-
sionaries in China. Many Washington and Lee
alumni served in Chinese missions, saw things they
had given their lives to—broken; now stoop to
build again with dulled, not worn out, tools.

Forced to abandon home and work in his South-
ern Presbyterian mission field, North Kiangsu prov-
ince, C. Houston Patterson, *19, escaped with his
wife and children to Japan, came to Lexington, ac-
cepted the post of Y. M. C. A. Secretary at Wash-
ington and Lee. With the close of the present ses-
sion he will have served two years. He has been
active and popular, has served ably. He will return
to his work in China during the late summer, will
join his father, B. C. Patterson, ’8/7, and his brother,
W. B. Patterson, ’22, who preceded him during the
past year.

CHAPEL VISITORS:

Automobile guide books list the tomb of Lee as an
Guide books and improved high-
ways bring throngs of tourists through Lexington.
Some stop to buy lunch and gas and drive on; others.
disdaining history and shrines, barely slow down;
many others tarry, visit the Lee tomb and museum.
During 1928 over 52,000 visitors registered at the
Lee Chapel.

historic shrine.

\2
Oe

OLDHAM CLARK, °28, 1s specializing in income
tax law with Woodward, Hamilton, Warfield and
ELobson,

wes

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

POLITICS

When Virginia went Republican during the last
election, a resolution was introduced in the Missis-
sippi state legislature by Senator Castell regarding
the removal of the bodies of Generals Robert EK. Lee
and Stonewall Jackson from “republican soil” in
Virginia to “democratic soil” in Mississippi. The
resolution was as follows:

“Whereas, we learn with great sorrow and grief
that the state of Virginia has trampled upon and
counted as naught its great and glorious southern
traditions, and has embraced and accepted the pol-
itics of the republican party and has thereby made
its state republican soil and whereas, it is evident to
all that the two southern leaders, Robert F. Lee and
Stonewall Jackson cannot rest or sleep peacefully
in said republican soil. —

“Be it resolved, that we hereby request the gov-
ernor of the state of Virginia to permit the state of
Mississippi to remove to the democratic soil of said
state, the bodies of said beloved Southern patriots,
and,

“Be it further resolved that the governor of our
great democratic state be requested at once to trans-
mit to the governor of the state of Virginia a copy
of these resolutions.” |

To these resolutions the chairman of the Rock-
bridge County Democratic committee replied:

“Dear Senator Castell:

“T have noted with interest the resolution which
you have recently introduced in the legislature in
your state.

“In this connection I wish to say that perhaps you

are not fully conversant with all the facts. Lexing-
ton, where repose the bodies of Robert E. Lee and
Stonewall Jackson, gave a substantial majority for the
Democratic ticket in the recent presidential election.
Hence its soil is unsullied and all sacred traditions
are safe. Should Virginia fail to go Democratic
in the gubernatorial election next fall, then Rock-
bridge county will seriously consider the . question
of seceding and establishing an independent state.

“With feelings of the highest consideration, I am

“Sincerely yours, B. E. VaucHan,

Chairman Rockbridge County
Democratic Committee.”

es ee ge
°

DR. JOHN W. BOWYER, ’22, was appointed
associate professor of English at Southern Meth-
odist University, Dallas, Texas, on January Oth.
For the past two years Dr. Bowyer has instructed in

English at Harvard where he recently received his
Ph.D.

STUDENT BODY
LIBERALITY:

Solicited by the Local Red Cross, students con-
tributed $424 for the relief of storm sufferers in
Florida and Porto Rico.

RELIGION:
Of 909 W. & L. students 840 are Christians, 43

of the Jewish faith, one a Buddist and nine acknowl-
edge no particular faith, according to the Registrar’s
statistics.

Among Christian denominations Presbyterians pre-
dominate with 272 members. There are 182 Metho-
dists, 181 Episcopalians, 101 Baptists, 27 Christians,
26 Roman Catholics, 17 Congregationalists, 10 Chris-
tian Scientists, 9 Lutherans, 8 Reformed Presby-
terians, 2 Unitarians, 2 United Brethren, 1 Greek
Catholic, 1 Universalist, 1 Friends and 1 Community
member.

CALENDAR:

In 1582 Pope Gregory XIII changed a calendar
date or two; established the Gregorian Calendar
now used almost universally. Certain business lead-
ers, politicians and scholars feel that it is awkward,
outworn. ‘They propose a new calendar of thirteen
twenty-eight day months; a world-wide holiday dur-
ing the remaining twenty-four hours of the year, and
numerous other features as proposed by M. B. Cots-
worth, English expert. :

On Monday, December 17th students assembled
at the Doremus Gymnasium, heard Lieut. Col. H.
Edmund Bulis of Washington, D. C., propose, ex-
plain and advocate the new calendar plan.

PANCY DRESS; PRB. 22:

Princess Scheherazade was to be executed by dis-
illusioned and disconsolate Sultan Schariar. Instead
she beguiled him with fantastic stories for a thousand
and one nights, consoled him, became Sultana. On
Feb. 22 the stories of Scheherazade, abridged, will
provide the theme for a Bal Oriental from the
Arabian Nights—the twentieth annual Fancy Dress
Ball at Washington and Lee.

Departing from the usual date between the first
and second semesters, this year’s Ball will be held on
Washington’s birthday, Feb. 22, by Faculty consent.

Commenting upon a gala Bal Masque in Philadel-
phia several years ago a Quaker City newspaper said:
“Tt rivalled the famous Southern Fancy Dress
Ball given annually at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity.”

Instituted by Miss Annie Jo White the Fancy
Dress Ball became a famous Southern function.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

- Now directed by Prof.
iC. BE. L. Gill,” chaphy
and astute impressario
with gifts of artistic
conception, deft direc-
tion and effective stag-
ing, the Fancy Dress
Ball attains prodigious
proportions, achieves a
national reputation.
Hordes of visitors
throng to Lexington for
this annual spectacle.
Admission cards and in-
vitations sufficient to
overflow the gymnasium
are exhausted before the
demand, yet the Fancy
Dress Committee  sin-
cerely desires to accom-
modate everyone having
a just claim to consider-
ation. Simple rules gov-
ern Alumni admissions:

 

Pror. C. E. L. Gi, ’22
“A Thousand Nights in One”

wives are admitted upon
identification; must wear formal dress for admission
to spectators’ gallery; must be in costume and pay the
regular fee for admission to the dancing floor.
Friends and relatives, guests of alumni, must se-
cure admission cards through student friends in ad-
vance. Intoxicants and imbibers thereof are barred.

ELECTION RETURNS: '

-'Townspeople, students and professors were the
guests at the Gymnasium on Election night, Nov.

6th. There, students in the Department of Journal-

ism reported returns from local precincts, tabulated
National returns from leased wire reports, projected
news flashes on the screen. Betimes the student
orchestra entertained. Conceived and organized by
ambitious Journalism Professor R. B. Ellard, this
service was appreciatively applauded.

Able Economics Professor R. H. Tucker com-
mented “The handling of election returns is as valu-
able in a political way as the holding of the Mock
Convention * * * If there is a more politically-
minded student body than this one, I do not know of
it. When a man graduates from Washington and
Lee he is fitted to take his place as a citizen. He
has learned not only from texts but also personal
experience.”

TROUBADOURS:

Directors of Campus Musical and Dramatic ac-

Alumni and their —

tivity, the Troubadors presented the farce “Officer
666” before a local audience Saturday afternoon,
Dec. 1,

BAR EXAMS:

Only a few senior Law students dare the fall
Virginia bar examination. Daring and passing this
fall were students William S. Price and Samuel J.
‘Thompson.

DEGREE APPLICATIONS:

Required to make formal application before Oct.
15, 149 students became candidates for the award of
degrees at Commencement 1929—an increase of 29
over the number applying last year.

DEBATING REVIVAL:

In olden days debating and oratory were out-
standing Campus activities. Young ladies were hon-
ored by invitations to attend the Final Oratorical
Contest. In latter days interest in the art of Demos-
thenes, Cicero and the Caesars has waned. Young
ladies come to dance. The Final oratorical contest is
no more. Only one literary society exists.

Intercollegiate debates, state and national oratori-
cal contests, have adopted the open forum, admit
witty repartee; make use of the radio, of publicity
agents; follow the lead of Intercollegiate athletics.

Thus stimulated, forensic activity under the able
direction of Public Speaking Professor M. G. Bauer
is being revived at Washington and Lee. There is a
debating team under student management. Competi-
tive try-outs are held. Trips, medals, prizes and pos-
sible membership in Delta Sigma Rho, National hon-
orary Forensic Fraternity, allure.

Inaugurating 1929 activity Washington and Lee
will debate Kent School of Law in Chicago, February
10, before a radio microphone, will be adjudged by
the radio audience; will meet Ohio Wesleyan at Dela-
ware, Ohio, February 12; Miami University, Oxford,
Ohio, February 13, and other teams before home
audiences during the early spring.

Publication of the Washington and Lee-British
Students Debate in the University Debaters Manual
indicates last year’s progress, stimulates.

GREEK vs. LATIN:

Lamented by some, commended by some, there has
long been a trend away from the study of Greek and
Latin. At Washington and Lee 12 students are en-
rolled in Latin Classes, 15 in Greek. As a general
rule the study of Greek is less popular. More popu-
lar is the course offered in Greek civilization, insti-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

~

tuted two years ago and continued by Latin and
Greek professor, Dr. H. V. Shelley.

LAW SCHOOL ENT RACE:

Intense application
for one year could win
jan LL.B. for ambitious

students in the eighties
land nineties. Later the
| full two year require-
|} ment was enforced.

i year was .reqduire d.
| More recently two years
| Academic study was
| made a prerequisite for
| entry.
requirement that Law
School entrants must
have an average grade
of “C” during their two
years Academic course.
Result: one of the three grade “A” law schools in the
South; increased recognition by the legal profession ;
better preparation; more successful lawyers to hang
W. & L. diplomas on office walls. Reason: Law
Dean W. H. “Boss” Moreland, able teacher, able ad-
ministrator, able lawyer, who loves nothing better
than the upbuilding of the Washington and Lee Law
School.

Now comes the

 

Dean MoreLANnp, ‘06

Builds Law School to
Build Lawyers

PUBLICATIONS:

The Ring-tum Phi:

One time refrain of a student yell, now the campus
semi-weekly newspaper, began publication of a series
of articles written especially for it by some of Amer-
ica’s leading business geniuses. Contributors thus

far, I,. A. Downs, president Illinois Central R. R.,

and Charles M. Schwab, steel magnate.

The Southern Collegian:

Revived, oldest campus publication, appeared at
Thanksgiving ; provided an outlet for student literary
talent; was well received. The revival of the South-
ern Collegian is a forward step highly lauded by
alumni and worchy of continued and increased sup-
port.

The Alumni Magazine:

The receiver of many pessimistic predictions at its
inception, received many new subscriptions, inaugu-
rates a monthly publication schedule with this issue;
will appear on the 15th of each month.

| After the War a third |

ATHLETICS
POST MORTEM:

Sept. 29 W. & L, 58; Lynchburg College 0.
De 62 Wee. 382 NoC. State 6.

Od 13 Woe 0: U.. of Ky.6.

oct. 20. We & te Oh ot West. Va: 22
phe 22> Wee 6s I ot Penn 27.
Now.<3 Ws & 1a DV ob ya. 20.

Now, 10. W.-&-L. 12;. Princeton 25.

Row. 1k Wee 7 8 PAP.

Nov. 24 W.&L. O; U. of Md. 6.

Mov. 22 W. & Lb. 6: of Na -00:

Best Exhibition:

W. & L. vs. N. C. State at Lexington. End Lee
Williams starred, was injured for remainder of sea-
son; offense and defense functioned smoothly; spir-
ited and coordinated team work brought victory.

Next Best:

W. & L. vs. Maryland at Washington, D.C. A
stubborn defense and a brilliant flash by \ substitute
half-back “Red” Jones, was only marred by heart-
breaking fumbles. \

Jinx:

\

Why is a fumble? The best of the General backs
fumbled at crucial occasions throughout the past sea-
son. Fumbles contributed largely to the victories of
Kentucky, Tennessee, Virginia and Maryland over
the otherwise equal if not superior Generals. Are
they conditions or events? ‘The consistency of Blue
and White fumbles indicated the former, established
the prevalence of a “Jinx.” |

High Lights: |

\
|

Throughout the disastrous season’ the performance
of individual stars stood above the wreckage of de-
feat. Veterans White and Fitzpatrick shared high
honors; half backs Thibadeau, Lott and Eberhardt
made brilliant flashes; “Red” Jones, perennial substi-
tute acquitted well at every showing; end Lee Wil-
liams accumulated a season’s glory in one lone game;
most consistent was the full season’s work of W. H.
(“Bill”) Hawkins, tackle, captain-elect.

*,
—_—_——¢
6°

 

The home of MR. HARRY. ST. G. CAR-
MICHAEL, ’99, of Kyrock, Ky., was burned with
all its contents on December 9th. In the building
was much of sentimental value which cannot be re-
placed,—books, pictures and furniture. The family
was absent from home at the time.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FROSH RECORD:

Defeating four of its five oppo-
nents this season, Washington and
Lee’s yearling eleven has completed
an unusually successful campaign, un-
der the direction of Coach E. P. Da-
vis.

After dropping the initial encoun-
ter to William and Mary frosh, the
Little “Generals blanked V. P. I.
frosl, University of Va. frosh, and
Greenbrier Military Academy and
won from Maryland 7 to 6.

/ Every game had unusually low
scores. The result was the Generals
-/scored a total of 39 counters while
' the opposition was collecting only 18.

The Blue and White ran up its larg-
est score spain Greenbrier, defeating the Cadets 13
to 0. Incidentally the only team to cross Washington
and Lee’s goal line, with the exception of the game
the yearlings lost to William and Mary, was the
Maryland | ‘cubs when they chalked up a lone touch-
down.

 

E. P. Davis |

OLD AND NEW SEASON:

Bygones become bygones and fu-
ture football fancies crystallize at
the annual Gridiron dinner in the
Washington and Lee Dining Hall.
President Henry Louis Smith spoke,
compared athletic contests to the
game of life. Coach “Pat” Herron
complimented the 1928 team, lauded
their courage and spirit in the face of
adversity; was accorded vociferous
and appreciative applause. Trustee-
alumnus-supporter J. R. Caskie, ’06,
announced his subject as “Nothing
Serious,” paid tribute to the team, to
Coach Herron, to President Smith.
Dr. R. G. Campbell, ’92, looked for-
ward to next year. Graduate man-
ager R. A, Smith announced the 1929 schedule. Pre-
siding was the one and only Eddie Parks Davis.

Following the dinner tackle “Bill” Hawkins,
brother of “Red” (one time center), of Petersburg,
Va., was elected Captain of the 1929 Eleven. L,. F.
Powell of Richmond was elected manager. Mono-
grams were awarded as follows:

 

W. H. HAwkINS
| Captain-elect

VARSITY FOOTBALL.

Captain E. A. Fitzpatrick, Captain-elect W. H.
Hawkins, J. B. Towill, M. M. Sproul, C. W. Cocke,

C. W. Day, Jr., D. S. Hostetter, H. T. Groop, T. J.
Taylor, M. Seligman, J. R. Martin, Jr., H. F. Snod-
grass, H. R. Groop, H. L. Williams, W. S$. Lott, D.
C. Eberhart, Jr., E. H. White, M. N. Thibadeau, J.
G. Faulkner, A. C. Jones, Jr., V. J. Barnett, J. L. Ja-
cob and Manager G. H. Lanier.

VARSITY CROSS COUNTRY.
Captain EF. N. Backus, Captain-elect G. Brock, F.

: Johnson, A. T. Hickin. a

FRESHMAN FOOTBALL.

Captain C. E. Long, Jr., W. Rosenberg, F. C. Til-
son, B. P. Porter, R. C. Egbert, C. G. Harris, E. C.
Tonsmeire, FE. A. Nesbitt, W. W. Mattox, F. R.
Bailey, E.. N. Cross, J. W. McLaurin, P. Mitchell, A.
P. Guyol, B. R. Wilson, Jr, B. H. Smith, FB. 1.
Stevens, H. M. Wilcox, W. C. Cremin and R. A.
Morris, Jr.

FRESHMAN CROSS COUNTRY.

Captain J. J. Broderick, R. B. Champlin, J. H. Coll,
R. M. Coe, M. H. Kempton, I. F. Hudson and J. T.
Shields.

1929 GRIDIRON SCHEDULE

Sept. 28—Lynchburg, here.

Oct. 5—N. C. State, Raleigh, N. C.
Oct. 12—Kentucky, here (pending).
Oct. 19—West Va., Charleston.

Oct. 26—Tennessee, undecided.

Nov. 2—Virginia, here.

Nov. 9—Pending.

Nov. 16—V. P. I., Blacksburg.

Nov. 28—Florida, Jacksonville.

A Lis:

Sounding taps for King Football’s annual hiberna-
tion, sports writers, coaches and _ self-constituted au-
thorities in every geographical section bring forth
selections for an “All” team. Accepted as representa-
tive choices: “Gene” White was designated as full-
back on the All-State (Virginia) team; “Bill” Haw-
kins as All-South Atlantic tackle.
tions were made in various publications of Capt. E.
A. Fitzpatrick, “Gene” White and “Bill” Hawkins.

Honorable men-

BAND

Sponsored by the Athletic Association, directed by
cornetist W. H. (“Hank”) Slanker, supported by the
student body, a forty-piece uniformed band drilled
and played before home football audiences, journeyed
to Charlottesville to entertain Blue and White support-
ers at the Virginia game; to Washington, D. C., for
the U. of Maryland engagement; received well earned
praise for creditable performance.

tease

ao ancl

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 19

COACH:

football season, Coach “Pat” Herron
tendered his resignation. It was re-
eretfully accepted by the Athletic As-
sociation. A special committee was
authorized to seek a new coach.
Coach Herron directed Washington
and Lee Intercollegiate football ac-
tivities for three years. Two rather
mediocre seasons preceded the dis-
astrous record of two wins and eight
losses during the past fall. Three
successive defeats by Virginia and
two by V. P.I.; a tie game with

Princeton, with U. of West Va. and

with the U. of Fla.; two victories

each over Kentucky and Maryland,
featured his service here.

Prior to his Washington and Lee engagement Mr.
Herron played end for the U. of Pittsburgh, assisted
famed Coach “Pop” Warner, served at the U. of In-
diana and Duke University. Betimes he graduated in
Law, was awarded a Phi Beta Kappa Key, practiced
Law in Pittsburgh.

As a football coach, Mr. Herron looked upon a col-
lege as an educational institution, upon football play-
ers as students of a science, upon the annual schedule
as a series of experiments to be efficiently performed,
upon alumni as helpful well wishers and supporters.

“Off with his head” applies to fallen kings and los-
ing coaches. Not so with Coach Herron. He had the
respect and support of students, players, Faculty and
alumni. His resignation comes from a natural desire
to free himself and the University from that ques-
tionable portion of the responsibility for continued
defeat generally attributable to the coach.

The Athletic Association’s committee: has solicited
and received numerous applications and recommenda-
tions; will announce its findings publicly when a deci-
sion has been reached.

 

“Part” HERRON
Leaves Friends

MITTMEN:

Coached by last year’s captain, “Bill” Price, the
Generals’ boxing squad rounded into shape, defeated
William and Mary mittmen here, January 19th; pre-
pared to meet V. P. I. there, Feb. 9th; Duke Univer-
sity there, Feb. 14th; N. Carolina University there,
Feb. 16th; Catholic University here, Feb. 23rd.
Freshman mittmen are scheduled to box S. M. A.
there, Feb. 2nd; V. P. I. frosh there, Feb. 9th, here
Feb. 18th.

Grapplers were tutored by Coach Mathis, competed

Soon after the close of the 1928

for places on the Varsity squad, had their first en-
gagement cancelled because of “Flu,” journeyed to
defeat at Princeton January 11th, at West Point
(Army) January 12th; met and lost to N. C. U. here
January 26th; Vico there, February 2nd; planned
to meet Duke there, February 26th; V. P. I. there
February 23rd; elected “Shorty”? Rule, unconquered
1927 leader as captain, rejoiced at the entry of foot-
ball captain-elect W. H. Hawkins into their heavy-
weight ranks.

Freshman matmen are scheduled to meet N. C. U.
freshmen here January 26th; V. R. I. there February
23rd.

ISLAND:

Sacred to the memory of annual rowing classics, the
North River Island has been leased by the Athletic
Association, has been converted into a baseball prac-
tice field for fall and spring diamond training.
COACHING SCHOOL HERE: \

“Coaches are born, not made” is an adape derived
from observation of successful athletic teata mentors
during the past two decades. But born coaches can
be made better by study, by an interchange) of ideas,
by the tutoring of recognized masters. \

Knute K. Rockne, famed Notre Dame \ football
coach and director of athletics and Dr. Walter EF.
Meanwell, U. of Wisconsin basketball coach, have
conducted summer courses in their respective ‘sports
for the past few years. Next summer Coaches
Rockne and Meanwell will come to Lexington, \ will
hold their summer normal at Washington and \Lee
July 1-13, will attract studious prep and collegiate
mentors from every section.

Fee for the two weeks’ session is $25.00 exclubive
of board and room. Accommodations will be \ar-
ranged at a minimum cost. Regularly a
coaches and athletic directors, or those anticipating
such employment are eligible for admission. ‘To
Graduate Manager R. A. Smith, 715, attendant at
1927 summer session (held at Bucknell) and Ath-
letic Director Forest Fletcher, Notre Dame class-
mate of famed Coach Rockne, the credit for bring:
Ls the 1929 session to Lexington.

?

EDMUND D. CAMPBELL, ’22, has been ad-
mitted to the law firm of Douglas, Obear and Doug-
las, attorneys at law, Washington, D. C. “Eddie”
has two degrees from W. & L,., having taken his A.
B. in 1918 and his LL.B. in 1922. He also holds an
M.A. in Commerce from Harvard University. The
law firm to which he has been panied is one of the
best known in Washington.

 

WHITE:

Among other able gridders the
1928 season marked the final appear-
ance of “Gene? White in football
uniform at W. & L. The ‘spring
months will gee him on the diamond
as captain of the Generals’ baseball
nine. |

Never/ spectacular, ever consistent
on the gridiron, White played at
quarter and ran interference for the
brilliant “Ty”? Rauber, succeeded to
Rauber’s line plunging duties, was
conspicuous for his efficient, graceful
eround-gaining, for his high scoring,
/for his effective defense. General
| utility man and second baseman, he
won his letter in baseball, was elected
captain for 1929. For two seasons

 

“GENE” WHITE /

Se: onsistent”

he played| forward on the basketball quint. Betimes

he entered a few track and field events.

Hailing from New Mexico and more mature than
the average college student, White entered Washing-
ton and Lee with junior standing, waited on tables,
miauasee his ea (Phi Kappa Psi) house,

“earned his way”; received his A. B. last Com-
mencemert, was married during the summer, will re-
ceive his) Master’s degree next June.

,

NEIGHBORS:

WWadhingeon and Lee students attended the annual
game between neighbors V. M. I and the U. of Va.,
rejoiced in the victory of the charges of Coach “Bill”
Raftery, "15, over the Cavaliers, later rejoiced in the
cadet triumph over neighbor V. P. I.

Student and cadet newspapers exchanged courte-
sies ‘editorially, student sheet Ring-tum Phi called at-
tention to the customary cadet salute before the tomb
of Lee, suggested that the customary student greet-
ing) “Hi, gentlemen” be exchanged with passing
cadets. :

i a

Head Coach Earl (“Greasy”) Neale of the Vir-
ginia Cavaliers resigned, accepted the position of
coach and assistant manager for the St. Louis Cardi-

nals, professional baseball club; was petitioned to

remain, considered the retention of the Cavalier foot-
ball coachship.

¢

MR. E. W. G. BOOGHER, ’02, of Merchants-
ville, N. J., was a visitor in Lexington during the
Christmas holidays at the home of Mr. Boogher’s
sister, Mrs. Thomas J. Rice.

20 _ THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CAGERS:
Coach:

Blue and White cagers were without a special

basketball coach. Versatile Graduate Manager and

baseball coach, R. A. Smith, °15, undertook to fill
the breach, attended summer basketball coaching
schools, studied and experimented for three years,
received promising material from Coach Eddie Parks
Davis’ freshmen quints, developed the 1929 Cagers.

Prospects:

At the present writing the 1929 quint appears
destined to make basketball history at Washington
and Lee. Smooth, confident and accurate play has
characterized their initial engagements, victories all.

Record:

First to meet defeat was Hampden-Sidney, 45-26;
then Bridgewater was swamped 77-22. An _ unde-
feated U. of Ga. quint offered stubborn opposition,
was defeated 44-25; the undefeated quint from Ran-
dolph-Macon fought hard, met their Waterloo, 56-
27. The U. of Va. Cavaliers featured the Founders’
Day celebration, Jan. 19, frightened sanguine sup-~
porters with a 10 to 4 lead during the initial ten

minutes, were held to four field goals and eleven

foul markers as the Generals rallied to score 47
points during a thrilling game marked by close and
eficient guarding, close and efficient refereeing and
many fouls. V. P. I. was defeated Saturday, Jan.
26, by the score of 44-25 in a loosely played game.

Team:

1929 court play centers around tall and lanky
sophomore center Leigh Williams; depends equally
upon the accurate shooting of veteran Captain Jim
Lowry, new-found sophomore forward Harris Cox,
upon the close guarding and brilliant floor work of
Ernie Wood and Heinie Groop, veteran guards, upon
the spirited play of Frank (“Red”) Hanna, versatile
sophomore substitute. Students and supporters con-
fidently conceded the conference championship.
Coach and Cagers conceded nothing, drilled and
practiced for the remaining games:

Bebo Wik A: here
Feb. -5 Maryland ‘ here
Feb. 8 Kentucky there
Feb. 9 West Virginia there
Feb. 14 Davidson here
Heb. 16 Vo PA. Roanoke
Feb. 20 Marshall College here
Feb, 23 Vi. Pot: there
Feb. 26 Virginia there
Mar. 1-5 Southern Conference Tournament,
Atlanta, Ga. ~

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

ALUMNI
PIG SKIN GATHERING:

Football games attract the interest and support of
alumni in and about the cities where they are being
played. Formal or informal gatherings of alumni
are inspired. During the past season gatherings
were recorded at—

Charleston, W. Va., Oct. 20:

Where J. Kay ‘Thomas, ’25, and Brown Truslow,
09, promoted a hugely successful game attendance;
where Joe and Sam _ Silverstein, “Shorty” and “Cy”
Hall, Wirt Donally, John Morrison, Sherman Bal-
lard, “Andy” Payne and numerous other Charleston
aiumni greeted visitors, witnessed a_ disappointing
game, entertained at a dance with music by the
Southern Collegians—student orchestra.

Knoxville, Tenn., Oct. 27:

J. E. Dooley, °11, and his associates summoned
Kast ‘Tennessee alumni to Knoxville for the first U.
of Tenn.-General football engagement. ‘Thought-
ful, attentive, efficient, the University of ‘Tennessee
alumni association registered visiting W. & L. guests
at their headquarters in the Farragut Hotel. Those
registering there were: John A. Mahoney, Jr., ’16;
C, Hagan Minnich, ’24; Samuel M. Glasgow, ’03;
W. D. McSween, 95; G. F.. Welles, Jr.; J.-J. Kelly,
dey fetty 1. owen, 20>, J... Dooley, ’11;
Pveren “Greer, 14; W. WW. Briscoe, 92: John’ G.
King, 25; S. L. Showalter, 08; Bruce F. Ganna-
way, 25; B. L. Snipes, 26; John Wm. Greene, ’24;

ou. Y. “Thompson.” 242A) Bo Griffith: 907 5. F.

Stone, 724.
Charlottesville, Va., Nov. 3:

To many the Virginia game is the only worth-
while athletic event of the year. By way of Lexing-
ton Sam and Phil Laughlin, ’14, of Wheeling, W.
Va., Judge J. F. Rothrock, ’13, of Jackson, Tenn.,
PB. Lantz, 7915, of Blacksville, W. Va. and “Bob”
Hobson, °15, of Louisville, forgathered at Char-
lottesville, saw Laurence Witten, °10, Ed Caffrey,
09, Dan Owen, ’14, ex-President George H. Denny,
many another alumnus and a disheartening, dis-
asterous game.

Princeton, N. J., Nov. 10:

Preceded by the annual meeting of the Manhattan
Alumni Assn. the Princeton game attracted many
aiumni and supporters to the Washington and Lee
section in the stands. A special train ran from New
York. A special bus and many private cars ran
from Lexington. Others came from surrounding
New Jersey, Pennsylvania and Delaware, saw a
pretty, tho losing exhibition.

CAGE VETERANS ALL,

 

‘Capt. Lowry Woop GROOP
Forward Guard Guard

Lexington, Va., Nov. 17:

Hopeful, alumni came to Wilson Field for the V.
P. I. game. Few came from a distance to share
Homecoming festivities, attend meetings, visit.
Consistent, Dan Owen’s cctierie of constant com-
muters came, convened, conversed, convived; con-
sumed the famous ham; confirmed Mr. and Mrs.
Kayford W. Alley, °10, to membership. (See
“Homecoming” on next page for complete account.)

Washington, D. C., Nov. 23:

A gray murky day greeted those attending the W.
& L.-Maryland game. In the stands were Mr. and
Mrs, B. 1) Tillar, °22, of “Emporia; Va.: My and
Mrs. Herbert Hannis, ’10, of Martinsburg, W. Va.;
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Gilliam, ’17, and Prof. C. E. L.
Gill of Lexington; W. A. Williams, ’22, of Rich-
mond, Va.; Mr. and Mrs. E. D. Campbell, ’20, of
Washington; many other Washington alumni and
cut of town visitors.

Jacksonville, Fla., Nov. 29:

Traditional entertainment was unaffected by tra-
ditional defeat at Flordia’s gateway. Fred Valz,
"10, Robert A. Baker, 96, R. P. Daniel, ’01—active,
gracious and potent alumni, arranged for the game,
attracted a large attendance; received and_ enter-
tained visiting almuni and the football squad roy-
ally; evidenced Jacksonville’s traditional hospitality,
evidenced the potency of Washington and [ee
alumni throughout the sunshine state.

o,
eo ee

DR. and MRS. EDWIN P. BLEDSOE, ’00, of
Chicago, were visitors in Lexington during the holi-
days, with their son, Edward P. Bledsoe, Jr., who
is a student of W. & L,.

 

a2 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

HOMECOMING DAY, NOV. 17th

ALUMNI MEETING:

Prospects for a large homecoming were dimmed
by a negative football record, by the defeat at Char-
lottesville.

Trustees of the Alumni Assn., Inc., met. Present
were new ‘Trustees John I. Campbell, 11, of Lex-
ington; C. T.. Chenery,: °09, of. New York, and J.
Morrison Hutcheson, ’02, of Richmond; president
H. ©. Cagrey, 09, 41 Newark, N. J., and D. B.
Owen, 712, of Doylesville, Va.

Trustees and members met in sparsely attended
annual session at the Lee Chapel, re-elected E. C.
Caffrey, 09, as president of the Association, elected
samuel O. Laughlin, °14, of Wheeling, W. Va., to
succeed retiring trustee P. C. Buford, ’10;. re-elected
C. S: Glasgow/710, and FE: L. Graham, ’11, as _resi-
cent alumni members of the Athletic Council; Laur-
ence Witten, "10, and Carter Glass, Jr., 13, as non-
resident members. : 7

Formal procedure was discarded, informal discus-
sions were opened, portentious ideas crystalized. Prod-
ucts of mature thinking, of business experience and
intent observation, four ideas thus advanced may
affect the course of the University and her Alumni
Association. In effect they are:

‘Personal contact between leaders and representa-
tives of the Alumni Association and the individuat
members of the University Board of Trustees and of
the Faculty is necessary for mutual understanding.”

(C. T. CHENeERyY, ’09, President Federal
Water Service Corp., New York City)

“An official declaration of our future educational
policy would appear to be advantageous at this stage
of the University’s progress.”

(Dr. J. Morrison Hurcueson, ’02,
Richmond, Va.)

“A general movement toward choosing future pro-
fessors of Southern birth and rearing and to a greater

 

LuNcHEON, MeErINGS, GREETINGS

extent from the ranks of Washington and Lee grad-
vates would be fitting.”

(LaurENcCE WirteN, °10, Cincinnati, Ohio)

“The annual business meeting and Homecoming
Day celebration might be alternated between the day
cf the Virginia game when played in Lexington and
Commencement of the following year.”

(F,. C. Carrrty, 09, Judge Circuit Court
of N. 7. Newark, N. io

In agreement with the first of these suggestions an
alumni “contact committee’ was formed, Dr. J. M.
Hutcheson, chairman; Dr. Wm. Allen, 02, Charlotte,
N. C.; John L. Campbell, Lexington; Judge E.. C.
Caffrey, and Alumni Secretary Verbon EF. Kemp,
with authority to meet and advise with University
trustees insofar as their assistance was welcomed or
desired.

Luncheon:

Fach year the University gives a buffet luncheon
tor returned alumni, their families and friends. Ap-
proximately two hundred visitors were the Univer-
sity’s guests in the Alumni Building at noon, Satur-
day, Nov. 17th, where (among other edibles) two of
Uncle Dan’s Famous home cured Virginia hams were
served, 1D. B, Owen, 12)

Registering at Alumni headquarters were: EK. J.
smith, 86, Berryville; Geo. W.-Cleek, °17, Warm
Springs; Brown Miller, ’25, Staunton; A. E. Strode,
‘OZ, Afimetst; Wi. Barrett, 22, Ivy Depot. AL
Griffith, 07, Big Stone Gap; Jno. L. Crist, 12, Damas-
cus; A. G. Cummings, 17, Farmville; FE. C. Miller, ’04,
Blacksburg; R. W. Allen, *10, New York; Homer A.
Jones, ’17, Bristol; John M. McClung, ’03, Staunton;
W. A. Reid, ’11, Troutville; Roscoe B. Stephenson, ’09,
Covington; J. R. Tucker, 02, Richmond; J. S. Hansel,
‘17, McDowell; Chas. EF. Burks, 10, Lynchburg; R.
M. Cabell, ’20, Covington; Jas. R. Caskie, 09, Lynch-
burg; J. R. Crawford, 06, Farmville; W. L. Hindry,
‘21, Hopewell; W. E. McGuire, Jr., 713, Roanoke; H.
I. Mayhew, °14, Roanoke; Donald P. Boyer, ’08,
Richmond; “Goosie’ Glass, *15, Lynchburg; Thos.
Kirkpatrick, “15, Lynchburg; J..-N. Faulkner, 16,
Helena, Ark.; W. C. Phillips, °18, Lynchburg; Bob
Ramsey, ‘14, Lynchburg; T. X. Parsons, 21, Roa-
noke; Geo. W. Chaney, 11, Roanoke; H. S. Coffey,
"13, Woodstock; N. J. Kreinbaum, ’25, N. Emporia;
j. D. Hobbie, Jr., 05, Roanoke; Leonard T. Brown,
1S, Bridgeport, Conn.; HH. S$. Bryant, 20, Lynch
burg; Phillip Williams, °10, Woodstock; M. L.
Hummer, ’25, Washington, D. C.; Harry J. Hanna,
"l3; Roanoke: C. E:: Hunter. °13, Roanoke: 1, W.
Davis, ’23, Roanoke; C. 5. McNulty, 02, Roanoke;
M. L. Masinter, 716, Roanoke; Chas. P. Hanger, Jr.,

et

nw ny iil eatenpeen

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7 aS

18, Staunton; James C. Hobday, ’28, Washington,
Poe.

Supper was a Homecoming Day innovation. Served
to about thirty-five guests at the Dining Hall it proved
to be a happy occasion. Dr. Durnburg, of the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh, late of Alsace Lorraine and the
University of Mexico, was the speaker of the evening.
Aglitter with foreign decorations and in formal array,
Dr. Durnburg arrived late, was welcomed by Dean
Campbell, delivered a hilarious address in dialect;
concluded with an impassioned appeal for alumni
loyalty, removed moustasche, wig and goatee, proved to
be Richard C. Stokes, 05, versatile and clever lawyer
cf Covington, Va., who had prepared this feature up-
on very short notice. |

Throughout the evening guests sang Washington
and Lee songs, were entertained with piano selections
by Miss Emily Penick and L. T. Brown, ’19; with
folk songs by D. B. Owen, 712; took lessons in French
music under direction of versatile James R. Caskie, ’06.

Betimes:

Alumni from far and near lunched and witnessed
the annual game with V. P. I.; enjoyed the well
played but losing exhibition on Wilson Field, ex-
pressed appreciation for the new concrete footbridge
linking the Athletic field with the gymnasium.

Dan Owen’s hotel room and the Alumni Club
rooms were Meccas for ham lovers, centers for meet-
ings and greetings, for reminiscence and gustatory
enjoyment. There, convened Mr. and Mrs. Rayford
W. Alley, *10, of New York; Ed Caffrey, ’09, of
Newark; Mr. and Mrs. L. TI. Brown, 719, of Bridge-
port, Conn.; Mr. and Mrs. Jim Faulkner, ’15, of
‘lelena, Ark.; “Pat’’ Collins, ’20, rally speaker, and
Haynes Morgan, ’17, of Marion, Va.; Laurence Wit-
ten, ‘10, of Cincinnati; Mr. and Mrs. C. T. Chenery,
09, of New York; Dr. J. Morrison Hutcheson, ’02,
end Donald Bowyer, ’08, of Richmond, Va.; Mr. and
Mrs. S&S. Otem, 15, 0: Cumberland, Md: H. H:
Larimore, 96, of St. Louis, Mo.; Jim Caskie, ’06,
Billy Wright, °16, and a host of the Alumni, Inc.,
membership.

ge
°

VERNON BIDDLE, Jr., ’25, of Richmond, Va..
is the dancing partner of Miss Caperton in Ned
Wayburn’s “Gambol.” The two dancers are of the
Vereaux, Veron and Randall dancing team, and re-
cently appeared in a dancing offering on the Keith-
Albee vaudeville circuit. The report of the engage-
ment of Miss Caperton and Mr. Biddle made in the
New York Daily Mirror of January 14th, was denied
by the parents of both parties.

ED. PFAU, ’26, is secretary and treasurer of the
Progress Electric Sign Company.

 

Dean H. D. Campsers,, '82
From New York to Texas

LOCAL ASSOCIATIONS

DEAN'S PEREGRINATIONS:

“Dean Harry” is a term of endearment applied by
many alumni to the quiet and astute representative
oi the Campbells of Washington and Lee history, now
Dean of the University, Professor of Geology, B.A.
82, Ph.D. ’85, son of John L. Campbell, A.B. ’42,
Professor of Chemistry and Geology 1851-86; brother
of John L. Campbell, LL.B. ’76, beloved Secre-
tary and Treasurer of Washington and Lee, 1877-
1913; grand-father of K. D. Campbell, Jr., aged 2.

“Dean Harry” was the guest of honor at the annual
dinner of the Manhattan Alumni Association on Nov.
Oth, attended the Princeton game on the following
afternoon. later, en route to the convention of the
American Association of Secondary Schools and Col-
leges at Forth Worth, Texas, he stopped at Memphis,
‘Tenn., at San Antonio, Texas on the return trip, dined
and conversed with alumni.

At New York:

The Dean met about one hundred alumni assembled
tor their-annual formal session at the Lafayette Hotel,
spoke on the past, present and future of Washington
and Lee; referred with growing praise to the adminis-
tration of one-time president, then president-elect-

 

O18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

pending, George H. Denny; recommended the
ALUMNI MacGazIne; heard “Jogger” Elcock, one-
time football coach, speak of past football glories.

Presiding at the dinner was Reuben I, Lewis, ‘17,
journalist and financial writer, whose successful ac-
tivities have brought him recognition in Who’s Who;
presiding at the business session was Harry EK. Moran,
14, one-time amateur and professional baseballer,
now prominent coal operator and vice-president of
the Manhattan Association. Quietly directing affairs
and disdaining food, was James A. Lee, able, efficient,
unselfish Secretary.

Preceding dinner a memorial resolution was offered
hy H. R. Hawthorne, ’10, and accepted in silent trib-
ute to the memory of W. D. Conrad, ’03, president
cf the Association, whose death occurred on October
29, 1928. During dinner a telegram of importunation
was ordered sent to Dr. George H. Denny, President
of the University of Alabama; of encouragement to
Generals’ football captain, FE. A. Fitzpatrick, at
Princeton. After dinner Hon. John W. Davis, ’92,
was elected president of the Association; Dr. Geo. B.
Lee, ’92, vice-president, and James A. Lee, *17, Secre-
tary-treasurer; Councilmen R. E. Tyrrel, ’21, J. T.
Lykes, 09, C. ‘I. Chenery, 09, and Dr..W. T. Han-
zsche, °14, chaplain.

Present were Walter H. MacCorkle, ’77, Dr. John
M. Glenn, ’78, and Dr. Wm. FE. Dold, ’77, veterans of
Manhattan alumni activity whose cooperation with
the “younger graduation” balances the present organ-
ization; Stuart Chevalier, 03, H. R. Hawthorne, ’10,
and D. R. Snively, ’22, whose foresight and endeavor
brought the present effective organization into being;
Karl WwW. Bibb, 725, Randolph —. Tyrrel, 21, and
Edgerton Vinson, °23, whose help enabled efficient
secretary Jimmy Lee, *17, to bring the association to
its present state of effectiveness.

Others present were: Earl W. Bibb, ’24; John L.
Hareson, 162 W. Co Watson, “99: EK. W. Lee, 13;
Francis Cote, °18; Nicholas Mandak, ’23; D. R.
Snively, 723; W. L. Webster, 712; H. M. Gould, 725;
Lawrence Haynes, ’22; Geo. T. Holbrook, ’23; Dr.
Win. i. Dold; Y6;Dr. S.-O, Fry, 27; ‘Theo. Hecker,

26, Robert Stuckenrath, 2); Wm. L. Murray,

Walter L. McCorkle, ’79; Robert Bently, Jr., ’26;
Raymond Smith, ’22; Edgar Salononsky, 11; Henry
Rowan, 16:2). 1. Lykes, 09; Jas. R. Caskie, (09;-L.
P: Bryant, ir. 094 jo Dive |r, 20: Jesse Tow,
25; Verbon Kemp, ’20; G. Holbrook Barber, 717;
Buck Miles, 715; G. S. Gravely, ’08; V. E. Turnbull,
’O1 > BS A: Judd, He D, ot. John, 25; ©. FE. Van Horn,
‘27- Dr. VA ty. Wdias. 23. DS) MetCorklc, “20; H: H,
Newberry, 26; FE. Waring Wilson, 98; H. H. Mc-
Corkle, 96; Jackson R. Collins, °17; Chas. Kupfer, °19;
Henry G. Hawn, ’84; H. Austin Spang, Jr., ’25;
Henry W. Dew, 711; T. Carlton Walters, ’27; Frank

W. Urmey, ’27; Stewart Chevalier, 03; Thornton W.
Allen, ’11; Claude P. Light, 06 & ’11; Roy Grimley.
21; L,. T. Brown, ’19; Randolph E,.. Tyrrel,.’20; Wim.
C. McKnight, 713; Junius Powell, 14; Stanley W.
Frost, °273 Wim, A: Hyman; “12; David As Falk. 16;
Edgar Jioppady, (24; Flarvey Or: Bley, 1ijoH. W.
Poindexter, 23°..G.- 1d. sChenery,. (00; B. C. Bowe,
Albert: M. <Piekus. (247° Wm. RR. Burton, «1/31.
Clyde Whetzel, 14; M. W. Ripy, 96; Robert Harris,
S. A. Glickstein, ’24; Bob Glickstein,

At Memphis:

“Dean Harry” descended, greeted alumni wel-
comers, attended an alumni dinner, spoke upon Uni-
versity affairs, upon his hopes and aspirations for her
tuture; called most of the thirty-five alumni guests
by name; heard T. R. Boyle, ’76, A. B. Knipmeyer,
‘01, and J. S. Edmondson, ’18, talk of the past, the
present and the future; sat beside gracious and stately
toastmaster, Judge F. H. Heiskell, ’78; was invited
te visit Memphis more often, accepted advance in-
vitations for the succeeding twenty-five years.

Others attending the meeting were: Jas. F. Ayde-
lutte, “19s Adrian. Boyd, 1/7; Gage Boyd, 21; Al
tred Boyd, ’24;.Thos. F. Boyle, 776; Dr. Wm. H.
Brandon, *17; Dolph Clarke, ’24; Jno. S. Edmond-
son, 718; Geo. D. Faison, 714; Jno. D. Faison, ’15; Dr.
rH. B. Gotten, ’22; Judge F. H. Heiskell, °78; May-
nard Holt, 27; Henry W. Jones, ’24; Arthur B. Knip-
meyer, 01; W. W. Warfield, ’27; Norfleet Turner,
20: Chas. 1. Branahan, (26: R. A~ Fulton, (26- Wal-
ter Farr, 26;.Bob Farr, “26; Francis: Fentress, °26-
John W. Alderson, ’26.

At Fort Worth:

Convention business claimed Dr. Campbell’s time.
Dallas and Fort Worth alumni could not formally
convene. Many alumni friends called and entertained
privately.

At San Antonio:

At San Antonio is the Alamo, much of history, of
beauty and of unvaunted charm. ‘There also are the
Steves family, alumni all, who match lumber, mill and
manufacturing interests with affectionate interest in
Washington and Lee. There “Dean Harry” was
entertained at an alumni luncheon attended by: Thad
smith, ’77; Albert Steves, ’77; Albert Steves, Jr., ’06;
Iirnest Steves, 78; Walter Steves, 13; E. R. Guen-
ther, e873 i. O. Fluft, 109; Ro oR? AWath, "ade Joe
Glass, °16; Frank Bosshardt, 97; Luther McKinnon,
‘2/7; Branch Sayres, IT. I. Roberts, ’27; and later at a
private dinner by Albert W. (“Kid”) Steves, ’06,
where he met the principals of San Antonio High
Schools in addition to alumni guests.

And so to Lexington.

I Sey

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 2

LOUISIANA MEETING, JANUARY 197TH:

A wonderful address on “Robert E. Lee’ and the
most enthusiastic informal talks by members, made
the annual dinner of the Louisiana Alumni Associa-
tion this year the most enjoyable for a long time. The
attendance was as large as usual, and would have
been much larger but for sickness of several and
week-end absence of others. Answer to the roll call
with recital of the “most outstanding” event during
the career of each alumnus, started the meeting off
with great spirit, and the response of fathers of New
Orleans boys now at W. & L., which has become a
regular feature of the annual dinner, was an addi-
tional attraction.

Other features of the program were the reading
by Samuel Young, of a telegram sent by the Associa-

tion on January 18 to the Board of Trustees urging

them to induce John W. Davis or Newton D. Baker
to sacrifice personal interests and accept the presi-

dency of W. & L.; a toast by Dr. W. McF. Alexander —

to Robert EK. Lee; the introduction of the speaker of
the evening, Dr. Carter Helm Jones, by Dr. J. E.
Winston, Professor of History at Newcomb College;
and a resolution of gratitude to the speaker by Dean
Douglas Anderson of Tulane University.

Dr. Jones’ address recalled interesting reminiscences

of the great Chieftain and President during the
speaker’s childhood days in Lexington, with eloquent
tributes to him as soldier, Christian and man. Un-
fortunately, the address was not written or it would
be included in full for the benefit of all the alumni.
It was the most thrilling and eloquent address on Lee
we have ever heard.
- Seven new subscriptions to the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
were taken at the meeting; and the Secretary was in-
structed to write Mr. Kemp that it is the best period-
ical of the sort published. It was also unanimously
voted to continue the policy of inviting the “fathers”
to the annual dinner.

All the officers were re-elected: H. M. Blain, presi-
dent; Douglas Anderson, vice-president; and Norton
Wisdom, secretary. Those present were: Alumni:
W. McF. Alexander, ’84; Douglas Anderson, ’90; N.
F. Atria, H,:M. Blain, “94; 0. 2. Sreidenbach, °11;
tei Davidee,. 24; 1 P. Femiion, 99; 1. H.
Harvey, 76; John G. McClure, ’03; L. von Meysen-
bus, 13; 8. A: Nabors, 20; 8 FP. fo) 20; W. F.
Smith, ’26; W. L. O. Whaley, 712; Norton Wisdom,
°27; William Wisdom, ’21; Samuel Young, 798.
Guests: Dr. Carter Helm Jones, J. T. Eastwood,
Archie M. Smith, O. B. Webb, and Dr. J. E. Wins-
ton.

GREENBERRY SIMMONS, ’27, and HORACE
BARKER, ’28, are practicing law together, at Louis-
ville, Ky.

 

Harry Moran, 714
Baseball to Coal

Telegram:
New Orleans, La.
January 18, 1929.
Board of Trustees
W. & L. Utaiversity
Lexington, Va.

Undersigned alumni urge you to make earnest
cffort to induce Newton Baker or John Davis to ac-
cept presidency emulating example of our great chief-
tain in sacrificing personal interests. We _ believe
cither one would advance alma mater beyond our
greatest dreams. (Signed) W. McF. Alexander; T.
J. Bartlette; Lazu Block; H. M. Butler; A: M. Crom-
well; LJ. Danjean: Robert Ewing, jt. Paul S.
Felder; Prank Fischer; J. Bonner Gladney; W.. K.
Gladney; F. E. Goldthwaite; G. S. Guion; F. P.
Hamilton; FE. J. Hart; H. H. Harvey; Walter Hoff-
man; i, I. Howard; W. E. Jones; J. W. Kern, Jr.;
J. R. Land; E. H. McCaleb, Jr.; Ludo von Meysen-
Lug; R. C. Milling; R. E. Milling, Jr.; J. M. Newton;
WoW. Ogden; Palmer Orr; T.-M. Simmons: ¥ oC.
simih; | F. Steele: W. L: O, Whaley; Bo Ww...
Walker; W. 1, Ward, Jr.; W. B. Wiscem; Sanmel
Young; W. F. Smith; John Wisdom; Norton Wis-
dom; John Maher; Fort Pipes; Randolph Pipes; J.
M. Boyd; Lee Mudd; Henry Bernstein; Eugene
Nabors; J. G. McClure; L. L. Davidge; Nicholas
Attia; H. M. Blain.

(eS
¢

JOSEPH R. BLACKBURN, ’11, represented
Washington and Lee University at the inauguration
of President John Roscoe Turner of West Virginia
University on November 28th.

26 , THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

MEMORIAL RESOLUTION MANHATTAN
ALUMNI ASSN.:

On motion the following memorial on the death of
Mr. W. Davis Conrad, ’03, was ordered spread on the
minutes and to be published in the Washington and
Lee University ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

The Washington and Lee Alumni Association of
New York City records with deep sorrow the death on
October 29th, 1928, of W. Davis Conrad.

Mr. Conrad was one of the active organizers of
this Association. He was its first Vice President and
in 1927 was elected its President, which position he
occupied at the time of his death. By his interest and
gcood judgment he added much to the success of the
Association.

After graduating from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity in 1903 Mr. Conrad studied law at the Har-
vard Law School. In 1906 he began the practice of
his profession in New York City and continued as
zi active and successful lawyer until his death.

Descended from a family of distinction he took an
active interest in public affairs. He served with high
credit in the New York State Militia and in the na-
tional service in the World War. He liked New
York, where he made a place for himself in the lives
and affections of a host of acquaintancessand friends.
He had an abiding loyalty for Washington and Lee
University and for all the things that pertained to
Virginia—his home.

 

E,woop H. Srat, 714
Capital President

LYNCHBURG, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 9TH:

The active and enthusiastic alumni club of Lynch-
burg sponsored two dances for students, prospective
students and alumni at the Country Club during the
Christmas Holidays. Music was furnished by the
W. & L. student orchestra.

Their annual meeting was held on January 9th in
the rooms of the Chamber of Commerce of that city,
with a representative attendance of the seventy-five
cr more graduates and former students of the Uni-

versity attending.

The business transacted included . the election of
officers for ensuing year; the adoption of resolutions
embodying expression of the interest of the Lynch-
burg alumni in the choice of a successor to Dr. Henry
Louis Smith as administrative head of Washington
and Lee; and decision not to hold this year a banquet.
‘The association having given during the Christmas
season an elaborately planned dance, it was felt that
it would be hardly fair to call upon the members to
contribute again in so short a time to another expen-
sive function.

The following were elected officers of the associa-
tion; president, David Barclay, "99; vice-president,
A. S. White, (27; secretary-treasurer, A. LL. Burger,
02. Robert D. Ramsey, °12, was the retiring presi-
dent.

ALUMNI VISITORS TO LEXINGTON:

During latter part of October, F. Petrie Hamilton,
99, of New Orleans, La., paid us an appreciated visit.

Also came—

On Oct. 31—Judge J. T. Rothrock, ’13, of Jack-
son, T’enn.; Pierce B. Lantz, ’°13, of Blacksville, West
Na.; Robert .P.-fiobsen,. 14. of louisville, Ky;
Philip A. Laughlin, 14, of Wheeling, W. Va.; Samuel
O. Laughlin, Jr., 714, of Wheeling, W. Va.

On Nov. 2—Graham C. Lytle, ’27, of Charleston,
West Va.

On Nov. 16—H. H. Larimore, ’96, of. St. Louis,
Mo.; William W. Pace, ’27, of Portsmouth, Va.;
Jesse W. Benton, °19, of Danville, Va.; Jesse W.
Benton, Jr., 37, of Danvyille,. Va.; Clarence H. Stein,
‘11, of Cumberland, Ind.; Lester D. Arnold, °18, of
Winchester, Va.; J. Howard Cather, 05, of Win-
chester, Wa.; °F. Russell Gather, 08 @. 10, of Win-
chester, Va. -

On Nov. 25—Henry G. Tignor, ’23, of Ashland,
Va.; Woe McC. Macan, 95, of St. Lenis, Mo.

On Jan. 22, 1929—George N. Danielson, °17, of
Duluth, Minn.; Ed Wohlwender, ’97, of Columbus,
Ga.

Alumni passing through Lexington will find a most
cordial and hospitable welcome at the Alumni Head-
quarters. ‘The Alumni Secretary is at your service.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

AT WASHINGTON, D. C., JANUARY 19TH:

‘The birthday of General Robert FE. Lee is the ac-
cepted date for W. & L. alumni celebration through-
out the country.

Celebrating the occasion, Washington, D. C.,
alumni gathered for a luncheon at the Carlton Hotel,
heard Dr. L. J. Desha, ’06, Professor of Chemistry,
invited guest sent by the University, speak on present
conditions at Washington and Lee; were interested,
instructed and entertained.

At the suggestion of “T'y” Rauber, ’26, the associa-
tion took steps toward establishing a special alumni
scholarship at Washington and Lee, placed the mat-

‘ter in the hands of the association’s officers and . D.

Campbell, ’20. Officers elected were able organizer
Elwood H. Seal, ’14, and Hunter D. Osborne.

Attending the luncheon were; John West Addison,
05: Daniel W. Alexander, 04; B. B. Bane, 17; W.
Q. Burtner, 18; Edmund D. Campbell, ’20; Madi-
son P. Coe, 715; Edward Dawson, 04; Harry Daw-
son, ’25; John Dawson, ’27; Walter Dunlap, ’06;
Fred P. Guthrie, ’11; Thomas R. Hamilton, °17; A.
Dana Hodgdon, ’11; Woodson Houghton, ‘16; H.
Wise Kelly, 713; B. R. Kennedy, ’23; J. G. Kincheloe,
‘21> M. 1. Lappitt;08: Geo; P,.Minetree, 08; G.
Hunter Osborne, ’23; R. S$. Paulette, 20; Ty Rauber,
26; W. D. Rucker, ’11; Elwood H. Seal, ’14; James
Somerville, Jr., 14; John H. Tabb, °11; Dr. John W.
Warner, 03; Torrence Wolford, ’21.

AT LOUISVILLE, KY. JAN. 19TH:

The Louisville Washington and Lee Alumni held
their annual banquet at the Brown Hotel on the nine-
teenth of January. We observed General Lee’s birth-
day with appropriate talks by Judge Thomas R.
Gordon, Robert P. Hobson and Joe Kaplan. Each
stressed the influence of General Lee on the college
life of students during the time he was in the Uni-
versity.

The election of a new president was discussed. We
unanimously voted to suggest to the Board of Trus-
tees that they wait until a thorough canvass of the
field has been made before selecting a new man.

Those present were: Thomas R. Gordon, John W.
May, R. M. Strassel, R. P. Hobson, Greenberry
Simmons, G. R. Smiley, Wesley Perry, Oldham Clark,
Wells Little, Ed. Dodd, Buerk Zimmerman, Joe
kaplan, Russell Gordon, Robert Foree, Willet Mc-
Gruder and George I. Burks.

1HOM BOOKS:

The library has lately been the recipient of a valu-
able collection of books from Dr. William Taylor
Thom, prominent alumnus. This gift adds approxi-

 

Dr. L. J. Desua, ’06
Capital Speaker

mately 400 books to the already priceless collection in
the library.

Some. of the most valuable books of the recent gift
are very old volumes of the various works of Shake-
speare, eight volumes of the rare Virginia Historical
Collection, and a set of twelve very old volumes of
the Writings of Washington. ‘There is also a select
eroup of late “best sellers.”

Dr. Thom, after a long life of study and usefulness,
is now making his home at Princeton, N. J., with his
son, W. T. Thom, Jr. His associations with W. & L.
date back to the presidency of General Lee at Wash-
ington College where he graduated with distinction in
1870, the last class to receive diplomas at the hand of
General Lee. His devotion to the University has
never faltered. He was perhaps the most influential
man in organizing the W. & L. Alumni Association,
Inc., about 20 years ago, and was long its secretary,
is now honorary Vice-President.

¢

FE. A. QUARLES, ’96, son of the late Dr. and Mrs.
James A. Quarles, spent a week at the Dutch Inn
prior to the Christmas holidays, resting and doing a
little special writing. When asked why he chose
Lexington for his short stay and rest, he said it was
because Lexington “is the best place possible on the
inhabited globe.” He has many friends here where
he spent his youth and early manhood.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“BOP SEAR, U2:

The importance of the work carried on by the
United States Chamber of Commerce for American
industry rests to a large extent on scientific research
conducted by the Chamber in industrial problems and
conditions. An alumnus of Washington and Lee,
Robert Hoover Spahr, has won merited recognition
as an authority on one phase of this research, that of
employer-employee relations.

“Bob” Spahr entered Washington and Lee in 1906
and was graduated in 1909, with the degree of B.S. in
Engineering. In spite of crowding a four year course
into three years, Spahr was active in literary society
circles, and is remembered as the first engineering
student to win the Final Orator’s Medal, one of the
most sought for distinctions of former student genera-
tions.

From Washington and Lee Spahr went to the
University of Kentucky, where he served as a mem-
ber of the faculty in the Department of Physics. He
served successively as instructor, assistant protessor,
and acting head of the department. The time spent
at this institution was marked by unusual prominence
in faculty activity and state scientific leadership. He
was largely instrumental in the organization of the
Kentucky Academy of Sciences in 1914. Graduate
work at Kentucky won for him the degree of Master
cf Science and he has followed this by graduate study
at the University of Chicago and Boston University.

Mr. Spahr has served. as a member of the faculty
of several other prominent institutions since leaving
Kentucky. As a member of the mechanical engineer-

 

“Bop” SPAHR

Foreman and Employer

ing of Pennsylvania State College he was given charge
of the organization and supervision of the engineer-
ing extension work for the State. In 1915 he was
asked to organize a state department of university
extension for Massachusetts, and for three years
served as chief of the Bureau of Class Instruction,
heading a full and part-time faculty of over seventy-
five, including some of the best known educators in
America. He has also been head of the Department
of Applied Science at Wentworth Institute, Boston
Massachusetts: Educational Director at the Wain-
chester Repeating Arms Company; and Professor and
head of the Department of Mechanical Engineering
at the University of Maryland.

During the World War Mr. Spahr was actively
engaged with a number of projects. He was re-
quested by the War Department to organize technical
training for the Ordnance Department; directed
special training for the coast artillery; directed the
teaching of conversational French; directed the re-
cruiting and training of engineers and draftsmen in
New England for the War Department; and had
charge of fuel conservation demonstrations for the
state of Massachusetts.

Mr. Spahr has exerted an active influence, national
in scope, on technical education, thru service on
various advisory boards and committees and thru his
publications. He is regarded as one of the leading
authorities in the country on Foremanship in Industry
end has written a number of publications on this sub-
ject. His works include: “Practical Electricity,”
“Foremanship—Fundamentals in the Development
of Industrial Foremen,’ “Apprenticeship,” “Payment
cf Wages by Check,” “Labor Conservation,” and
others.

At the present time Mr. Spahr is engaged in con-
ducting a study of non-college technical education in
this country, under the Society for the Promotion of
Engineering Education. This type of education is
that represented by Pratt Institute, Ohio Mechanics
Institute, and about thirty other institutions. It is
a type of education developed quite widely in Europe,
end this study is to determine the place in the field of

American education that this kind of institution should

occupy. The results of this study are expected to be
quite significant in their relation to this phase of
American education.

eg
¢

STUART MOORE, 715 and ’21, resigned his
position as Judge of Rockbridge County’s juvenile
and domestic relations court, which office he had
held since 1922 when these courts for counties were
created. He has served in this sometimes trying
position with diligence and good judgment and to the
entire satisfaction of the people of Rockbridge, His
sticcessor has not yet been appointed,

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

SOR HIS JOP:

John H. Sorrells, 17, now editor of the Fort Worth
Press, is the author of a unique newspaper style book
which has been placed in the journalism library.

The book is a manual of policies and technical re-
quirements of the Press. It is written in an informal
style, quite different from publications in its class.
The word “Staff” is printed in gold on the soft leather
cover.

Mr. Sorrells was a student in the University from
1914 to 1917 when he entered the service. Going to
Cleveland, Ohio, in 1924 a complete stranger, he be-
came news editor of the Cleveland Press, and sub-
sequently managing editor. ‘Then editor of the Press-
Scimitar of Memphis, Tenn., and now editor of the
Fort Worth Press. Starting his newspaper career
as a cub reporter in his home town, Pine Bluff, Ark-
ansas, “Johnny” worked up to reporter, editorial
writer, advertising business manager and editor of the
Graphic. Prior to his advent into Cleveland he had
been employed as night editor on the Daily Okla-
homan, of Oklahoma City, and this experience coupled
with his ability along the lines of editorship has
brought him the position of editor of the Fort Worth
Press.

SORRELL 1OR,:

EK. H. Miller, brilliant red-headed 1927 student
body president, presided over the fourth annual con-
eress of the National Student Federation of America,
at Columbia, Mo., December 12 to 15. “Ed” was
elected president of the N. S. F. A. last year while a
senior at college and his term extended through the
period of this congress.

Due to the illness of John Bell Towill, president of
the student body, B. Yoepp, executive committee mem-
ber, represented W. & L. at the University of Mis-
sourl congress.

OPERATIC. TROUBADOUR:

In the operas “Carmen” and “Rigoletto,” to be
presented by the Boston Grand Opera company in
February, leading parts have been assigned to Roy G.
Nichols, 1926 graduate from W. & L.

During the two years since his graduation Mr.
Nichols has sung in vaudeville and operettas. His
most recent engagement, during which he played nine
weeks on Broadway, was pronounced a decided suc-
cess, and it was because of his excellent work in this
operetta that he was afforded the opportunity of prin-
cipal roles with the Boston Grand Opera company.
Rehearsals have been held in Boston.

Much of Mr. Nichols’ early experience was gained
through his association with the W. & L. Troubadours
and the glee club, of which he was president.

 

Jounny Sorrewis, °17
Reporter, Editor, Author

~MEMORABILIA_
SALVAGED:

A snarling, twisting hurricane swept across Florida
in 1926 destroying much of the property of W. A.
Ross, 94, at Moore Haven. Among remaining effects
was a copy of an address delivered in 1849 on the
tounding of the Lexington Law School by Judge
john W. Brockenbrough. It was entrusted to F. A.
Nelson, ’95, of Chattanooga. Tennessee, for preserva-
tion. Mr. Ross has since died. Mr. ‘Nelson has de-
posited the document with the Washington and Lee
Labrary.

eee es

Musty and discarded documents were being re-
ruoved from the Library. Among them Miss Blanche
McCrum, Librarian, discovered a book, “Historical
Documents from the Old Dominion” and a pamphlet
“An Essay on Government” by William Graham,
first president of Washington Academy, in 1786.
Book and pamphlet were retrieved.

et ee
OO

MR. SAMUEL W. FRIERSON, ’00, of Flor-
ence, Ala., was a visitor in Lexington before Christ-
mas.

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

TEMPLES—CURIOSITIES:

Greeks of another day erected temples to the
Muses. ‘To preserve the memory of other days
moderns erect museums. Scholars, sentimentalists,
scientists, worship therein; mere gentlemen render
homage; the touring curious gaze and gawp.

As temples Washington and Lee has three museums.
Maintained in order of their popular appeal they are:

The Lee Chapel:

Was planned and built by General Robert E.
Lee, assisted by his son, engineer G. W. C. Lee.
Most impressive within to worshippers and gawpers
alike is the life-like marble of General Lee, asleep on
the battlefield, as executed by Edward V. Valentine,
noted author, sculptor, painter, who established him-
self in the penniless post-war days by successfully
inarketing statuettes from his model of “a nigger eat-
ing a watermelon.” , |

Thus established, soon recognized as an artist of
the first rank and commissioned to execute a bust of
General Lee, Mr. Valentine was a guest in the Lee
home, took minute measurements of his subject—
calliper measurements of eyes, nostrils, lips, etc., by
his own choice received an old pair of the Confederate
Chieftain’s army boots as a parting token.

Studies, measurements and boots served him later
when he was commissioned to express a nation’s ideal
in marble. Widowed, Mrs. Lee suggested the recum-
bent design, a loving host subscribed funds, $32,000.
Mr. Valentine began work in his Richmond, Virginia,
studio.

First the nude figure was deftly moulded according
to accurate measurement; wearing apparel—uniform
—boots—sword—was fitted thereon in plastic clay—
earment by garment as if by a master tailor, an army
blanket of clay draped softly, naturally over the
startlingly life-like sleeping figure.

This tedious, painstaking, deft process resulted in
the outstanding miasterpiece of American Sculpture.
But funds weré exhausted. University of Richmond
students provided for transportation of the statue to
Lexington. Disdaining horse-power, Lexington citi-
zens, led by Governor Letcher and General Jubal
Karly, fell in at a tug line, triumphantly drew the
statue on a wagon from the canal-boat wharf to the
newly-completed chapel addition (1882).

In this setting, behind the chapel rostrum, the
statue is now guarded by an artistic wrought-iron
grating; is surrounded by priceless paintings of
George Washington and Lafayette by Peale, a por-
trait of General Washington by Gilbert Stewart. Lesser
paintings of Washington and Lee presidents, bene-
factors and dignitaries, plaques and tablets commemo-
rating heroic deeds and sacrificial lives of a few dis-
tinguished alumni adorn the chapel walls.

Below by narrow, winding iron stair, the burying
vaults of the Lee family submit to public gaze, the
presidential office of General Lee is open to view as
when last officially occupied; the new Lee museum dis-
plays, in an attractive setting, personal relics of the
Lee family, historic documents, mementos of the
Confederacy,—poignant, homely, touching reminders
of other days.

The Carnegie Library:

More workshop than Temple also houses the col-
jection of paintings bequeathed by Vincent lL. Brad-
ford. The circular gallery beneath the classic dome
and overlooking the main reading room contains
unique paintings, a few rare works of art, a collec-
tion of mementos and tokens presented to Miss Mary
lee during her round-the-world tours.

Among the rare works of art are a portrait of
Daniel DeFoe by an unknown artist, two original
paintings by Watteau, two by Pater, pupil of Watteau,
an original portrait by Hyacynth De Rigaud. Other
paintings not thought to be original bear the signa-
tures of Coreggio, Tintoretto, P. P. Reubens, Peter
Ue Hooge, Veronese and Greuze.

The Museum:

Temple to the Muse of Science, the last station on
a colonnade stroll to the legal realms of Tucker Hall.
Plaster reproductions of giant prehistoric mammals
sreet the entering visitor, sometimes chaperone
student “dates.” Specimens of the fauna and flora
of land and sea have been carefully preserved, en-
cased and labeled. Chief item of interest to many
is the mounted skeleton of Traveller, famous war-
horse of General Lee. Nearby, a smaller skeleton
is pointed out as that of Traveller when a colt by
joking students to gullible girls.

SEVENTY-FIVE VEARS AGO:

The Society of Alumni of Washington College,
which is situated within the corporate limits of our
village, have determined to furnish a block to the
Washington National Monument, in Washington
City.

It is proposed to raise the necessary amount by
contributions of one dollar for each Alumnus, who
inay feel disposed to assist in so worthy a scheme.
Professor Junius M. Fishburn is authorized to re-
ceive the contributions, which are requested to be
torwarded as soon as possible.

Strange that this project had not been conceived
of much sooner. This is the only college ever en-
dowed by the “Father of his Country” and no block
in the monument could be more appropriate than
this, which comes as the offering of an Institution
distinguished by his name and liberality. (Lexington
Gazetie, Dec 22, 1853.4

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 31

HIFTY VEARS AGO:

“Washington and lee University, the knowing
ones say, has between 80 and 90 matriculated.
Louisiana, ‘Texas, Mississippi and other states are
blockaded by the scourge which is prevailing with-
in their borders, consequently have few or no repre-
sentatives as yet. 40 were expected from ‘Texas
alone. Those in position seem to know that the roll
will number about 130 when all are in that are
confidently expected.” (Lexington Gazette, Oct. 4,
{878.)

* *K XK

The following is Prof. White’s introductory ad-

dress on the occasion of laying the corner stone of
the Lee Monument, last Thursday. It is a model of
brevity and simplicity, yet withal of elegant diction,
and is one of the most appropriate addresses of the
kind we ever heard. The impressive delivery of the
speaker added much to its force. We present it in
full:

“Fellow-Citizens: On behalf of the Lee Memorial
Association and the authorities of this institution of
learning, I have the honor to extend you a cordial
welcome to-day.

“We are assembled, at the bidding of the Associa-
tion, to witness the ceremonies connected with lay-
ing the corner-stone of the Monumental building,
now in course of construction, designed as the final
iesting place of the remains of Gen. R. EK. Lee, and
as a shelter for the beautiful recumbent figure of the
ereat original—the work of the distinguished Ameri-
can sculptor, Mr. Edward V. Valentine, of Rich-
mond, Va.

“On an occasion of such significant interest it is
eminently fitting that we should summon representa-
tive gentlemen of the country and our fellow citizens
at large, to unite with the worthies who still linger
among us, and with this community, in doing honor
to the memory of one who was supremely good and
great among men.

“It is therefore highly gratifying to announce
that, among others, Hon. R. E. Withers and Gen.
Joseph EF. Johnston honor this occasion by their
presence.

“In invoking the blessings of Heaven on these
ceremonies, it is interesting that the service should
be rendered by one who was intimate with the
patriot-soldier in life, and since, as Chairman of our
}xecutive Committee, has labored faithfully, during
eight consecutive years to promote the work which
specially engages our attention at this time.”

The exercises were then opened with prayer by
Rev. Dr. Pendleton. (Lexington Gazette, Dec. 13,
i878.)

WASHINGTON COLLEGE

just three score years ago today less one,

I laid my head upon thy lap, which held in fee,
All that the Fates had shaped of destiny for me.
‘Today my soul has thanks for labor.

Later I raised my lips to crimson tinted breasts,
And thence drew largely of the wondrous store,
Of wisdom that the past did pour

into thy bosom, where it so fondly rests.

Then was my sun arising on the distant hills,

Lighting the cropped fields and those that fallow
lay,

Raising the hope for golden crown and bay,

As rose to sight, the rocks, the woods, the rills.

he mountains tempted with their purple haze,

And asked my progress to the topmost height,
Where I should meet my fate in armour dight,
And pass my life in wisdom’s choicest rays.

‘Today when age has laid the heavy hand on me,
snd brought to memory the days long past,
And shown how little of the life doth last,
Loving and humble turns my heart to thee.

That thou didst teach my youth and taught it well,
1 trust the tale of later life doth tell.

Come, take my head again upon your knee

And tell again what life doth hold for me.

shall asphodel and moly ease my head ?
What worlds hereafter shall my footsteps tread?
Thou ledst my younger years and led them right.
See that my after years be just as bright.

—W. H.GlAyies. Fe.

ee
¢

LETTERS

November 15, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I do not know whether I have remitted to cover
for the current volume of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
and I am therefore sending you my check herewith
tor 2. OU.

I have just received the November issue of the
MAGAZINE and notice therefrom that Dr. Geo. H.

Denny, former president of Washington and Lee,

now of Alabama, has been tendered the position of
president by the Board of ‘Trustees.

The election of Dr. Denny affords me great pleas-
ure and I hope that he will see his way clear to ac-
cept the position as I believe his incumbency will -
result in great profit to our alma mater.

I entered Washington and Lee in the fall of 1898,
with credits for some freshman work and expected

32 : THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

to graduate with the class of 1901. I remained at
Washington and Lee through the years of 1898-99,
1899-00, entering the Law department of the
University of Texas in the fall of 1900. I look
upon the two years I spent in Lexington as the most
pleasant years of my life and will always regard
with pleasure my association not only with the
student body of those days, but with the members of
ihe faculty at that time, among them “Old Alec”
Nelson, Professor of Mathematics, Dr. E. W.
(Patsy) Fay of the Chair of Latin. Dr. Fay after-
wards occupied the Chair of Latin at the University
of Texas, and died some years ago after contracting
pneumonia while on a visit to his sister in Pittsburg.

I was for one year under “Old Harry” Campbell;
took English under Dr. Currell (Svengali); took
Greek under Prof. Addison Hogue, who always
objected to being called “Doctor,” and then there
was likeable and lovable Dr. Quarles. I can still see
him peddling on his bicycle with the clips tightly
holding his trousers around his ankles as he made
his trips to preach 1n some country church or was on
some mission about town.

I wonder how many of the present members of
the faculty recall the time when the ice broke on
North River and let Prof. Hogue in for a cold bath
irom which he was rescued by one of his Greek
students with whom his course was none too popu-
lar; or the occasion when J. W. G. Tucker, a mem-
ber of the Albert Sidney boat crew, got in deep
water at the boat landing and would have drowned
smce he could not swim, had he not been pulled out
by “Gian Campbell and J]: S, McCluer, now go:
Parkersburg, West Va.

I notice that “Shin”? McDowell is now a bishop of
the Episcopal Church. He was a freshman in those
days.

The reading of the ALUMNI MaAGazINE calls to
one’s mind many a scene and memory from the past.

Yours very truly,
VoLNEY M. Brown, ’00.

Nov. 17, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

It was as pleasing as it was unexpected for me to
receive on my 78th anniversary a birthday greeting
trom dear old Washington and Lee. I desire to ex-
press to whomsoever it may be due my sincere ap-
preciation of this thoughtful and generous courtesy.
Its magic touch places me back again in “Paradise,”
my dwelling place for three of the happiest and best
years of my life—’69-’72.

I recall the day of my matriculation as a student
in Washington College, Sept. 1869. General Lee,
the president, was present and remarked to the pro-
fessor who introduced me to him; “All our tall men

‘come from ‘Tennessee and Kentucky.’

d

I was from
Tennessee and both tall and slender. °

I also recall what the professor of Math, Profes-
sor Nelson, said to this youth, fresh from the farm
in East Tennessee, when he applied for admittance
{o the senior class in Mathematics, after he failed
utterly to solve the first problem proposed as a test.
He said: “About where in the course, Mr. Stephens,
do you suppose this comes?” The reply was: “I
have not the slightest idea.” The learned professor
then said: “It is in the preparatory department.”
After then taking some of the conceit out of the
aforesaid youth, the professor kindly admitted him
to the intermediate class, doubtless because he had
aimed so high and had fallen so low. All is well
that ends well. He completed the course in two
years and was much gratified 37 or 38 years after-
ward on meeting his old classmate for the first time
since college days, the Hon. Harry Si. George
Tucker, to be greeted with the remark: “I remember
you as a man who was good in Mathematics.”

I also recall a remark in the English class made by
a student from Georgia, who was evidently more
iamiliar with muses than with the Classics. He was
standing up for examination. Dr. Kirkpatrick
quoted these lines (which I quote from memory after
98 years): “I bridle in my struggling muse that
longs to launch into a bolder strain,’ and enquired
what was wrong with the figure of speech. The
reply of Mr. Bowers of Georgia was: “It is a mixed
metaphor. You can bridle a mule but you can't
launch him.”

These are some of the humorous things I recall. But
when I call the roll of those noble fellows I then knew

| and loved so well and find how few remain to answer,

a feeling of sadness comes over me.

*Leaving Lexington in June, 1872, and returning
to my Tennessee home on the farm with my diploma
(A.B.) and Debater’s Medal (Washington Society),
flushed with hope and confident of victory, my
mother kissed me and said: “Well, my son, you have
at last succeeded in unfitting yourself for any useful
employment.” Hecliae the deme of tic remark |
looked around for something to do, and proceeded to
de the only thing I could—teach school. Later I be-
cume a lawyer and moved to Texas, where for more
than half a century, excepting the 15 years on the
Appellate Bench, I have been on the job, practicing
law and voting the regular Democratic ticket as be-
comes one who breathed for three years the whole-
some atmosphere of dear old Washington and Lee.

How I would like to be with the precious few who
remain on this homecoming day at the Lee mecca.

Sincerely yours,
I. W. STEPHENS, 772.

*I was known in those days at W. & L. U.as “Soc”
Stephens,

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

Dear Sirs and Friends:

Please find enclosed $4.00 for ALyUMNI MAGAZINE
for two years. The Macaztne is like a letter from
home.

With best wishes,
M. L. CHANDLER, ’89.

 

“Thank you very much for remembering my birth-
day. ‘They are accumulating to a pretty good total,
and it won’t be very long now before my twenty-fifth
reunion rolls around.

“With best wishes for yourself and Washington
and Lee. ae
‘Wie. 1. Heck, 06.”

 

“The Birthday card just received touched me
deeply. A very pleasant surprise indeed. The aver-
age man receives, ordinarily, but slight remembrance
on his birthday. Surely a card from his Alma Mater
hits a tender spot, and “Tightens the tie that binds.’

“May I express my appreciation of this thought-
fulness and say it is but another proof that W. and L.
is the University that never forgets you, however
small one may be.

“JERRY A, BurKE, 714.”

“A most agreeable and unexpected surprise came
to me Saturday morning to remind me of an 83rd
birthday. How thoughtful of you, and the feeling of
pleasure it kindles in one to have those whom we have
never known personally send us such a remembrance.
It carries me right back to 1866-7—so many dear
memories, and yet the dear friends of those days, how
few are left—some so very dear to me. Words are
inadequate to convey to you the sentiments your
thoughtfulness have inspired.

“With my best wishes for the continued success of
the Alumni Association and my warm personal re-
gards for yourself, I remain,

“Tos. J. ARNOLD, 67.”

 

“The MAGAZINE is a credit to the University and a
delight to the alumni. Enclosed is $4.00.
“SAMUEL M. GLascow, ’03.”

——

 

“T received a copy of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE sent
me several weeks ago, which I enjoyed very much.
You are indeed to be congratulated on putting out
such a fine magazine. I am enclosing you herewith my
check for $4.00 and will thank you to put my name
on the mailing list as soon as possible, as I do not
wish to miss a single issue.

“J, MELVIN LOVELACE, 724.”

 

“Enclosed find check for $4.00 to cover two years

subscription to the ALUMNI MaGazINE. It is a real
treat to me every time it comes and I| surely hope you
can make a success of your ten issue plan.

“WARREN NeEwsum, 712.”

“T am glad to enclose check for $2.50 covering
Alumni dues and MacazInr& subscription for: one year.
1 am glad that you have reminded me in this way of
the fact that I had never subscribed to the MaGazINE,
for I very much want to keep in touch as fully as
possible with the college and my old friends. The
ALUMNI MAGAZINE is, in my opinion, a very credit-
able publication and very interesting indeed to me.

“Hamilton A. Derr, ’11”

 

“Am enclosing herewith my check in the amount of
$2.50, covering one year’s subscription to the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE.

“Might add, Bill Peavy, Jr., arrived in September.
You might have him registered for the class of 1950.

“Wishing for the publication as well as the Alumni
Ass’n, all the success possible, I am, with best per-
sonal regards to yourself,

“BILL PEAVY; 2c.

 

“T have been receiving the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
from time to time. It is so well done and so stimula-
tive of interest that I certainly want to do my part to
see that it carries on. For fear that I am not already
a subscriber, I am enclosing herewith my check to
cover subscription for two years.

“With cordial and best wishes, I am,
“Woopson P. Houcu’ron, 16.”

 

“Gentlemen and Brothers:

“It is with pleasure I acknowledge the receipt of
your birthday greetings for my eightieth birthday. I
can assure you I am blessed with health, and am
surrounded by a loving family. And after the man-
ner of Emerson ‘I delight in telling what I think.’

“Just now I think all of the alumni of Washington
and Lee should vote for Governor Al Smith, the
democratic nominee. No informed self respecting
Southerner can vote the republican ticket.

“M. S. MoremMeEn, ’68.”
January 6, 1929.
Dear Sir: 3

A few days after my birthday I received a birth-
day greeting card from “Alma Mater,” it having
been addressed to my old home town at Greenville,
Ss. C., and then forwarded to me here.

I want to take this opportunity to express my
appreciation, and to compliment you highly on the
card itself as well as on the thought behind it.

This is the first time I have ever seen a University

34 | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

send a message of this nature, and you can no doubt
appreciate the emotion which came over me when I
received it,
More power to you!
Yours,

JosEPH EARLE BIRNIE, 24.

ee

“Enclosed please find check for $9.00 to cover ad
in Macaziné. Am sorry I overlooked sending this
sooner and assure you it was an oversight on my
part.

“Am as busy as a one armed paper hanger with
the itch trying to get all the hams off in time for
Christmas and have gotten several orders in the last
iew days from ad in ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

“Hope you and yours will escape Flu and_ that
you will enjoy a large and merry Christmas.

“Dan B: Owen, 12.7

My dear Mr. Kemp:

It was a very pleasant occasion indeed to meet
Prof. (Skinny) C. E. Williams at the North Caro-
lina State Football game on Wilson Field, as well as
Dean Moreland and many of the boys of my class.

I have often thought of writing to you for some
periodical that would keep me in touch with the
workings of our “dear old Washington-Lee;” how-
ever, I have been so busy that I just have not done
so. I enclose a check for $2.50 to cover one year’s
subscription to the Washington and Lee ALUMNI
MAGAZINE.

I note your request with reference to my activities
since leaving Washington and Lee. I came _ to
Miami, Flordia, late in the fall of 1925, and accepted
a position in the Corporate Trust Department of the
Miami Bank and Trust Company, which position I
cecupied until June, 1926, at which time the Miami
Pank and Trust Company was purchased by the
City National Bank of Miami. I was retained by
them as counsel and head of the legal department.
This position I held until my outside business grew
so that it necessitated my opening my own private
suite of offices for the general practice of law on
November 1, 1928.

I wish you would convey my warm personal re-
gards to Dr. Henry Louis Smith, as I feel greatly
indebted for his assistance.

Very truly yours,
Li L, COPLEY:

 

“Enclosed pleace find check for......... I regret
exceedingly my inability at present moment to make
complete payment, due partly to ‘Republican pros-
perity.’ ”

ON THE DEATH OF PROF. C. A. GRAVES:

The departure of Prof. C. A. Graves leaves a va-
cancy in the heart of everyone who knew him, and
all of them will agree with me in the opinion that he
is the greatest alumnus that Washington College and
the successor ever graduated.

I remember well when I first knew him. I reached
Lexington on the 9th day of October, 1869. (Now.
do not think that I remember the date—Mr. Penick
leoked that up and gave it to me.) However, I re-
member the occasion extremely well. Some weeks
or so after my arrival I met Professor Graves. His
was a noted figure as he passed thru the grounds on
the way to his classes. Not so very tall, of medium
size, showing strength and vigor, dark of hair and
face, erect, with kindly eye and gracious bearing; in
fact all that nature gives to show a man.

He had graduated in the preceding commence-
ment and had become a resident Master and taught
Modern Languages and other classes. While so
acting he studied law under Professors Brocken-
brough and Tucker and under them he was a bril-
liant scholar. Shortly after finishing that course he
was made Assistant Professor of Law to Mr. Tucker.
This place he filled acceptably until he was called to
the professorship of Law at the University of Vir-
ginia to succeed the great Minor. And there success
followed him.

I doubt seriously if any professor ever taught a
larger number of successful lawyers. Wherever I
go I find them. I know no one of his pupils who
has not a fair amount of fame to his credit and who
fails to give Professor Graves thanks for the part
he played in prompting his career. I knew him well;
for many years he and I roomed together. The
longer we stayed with each other, the greater was
our mutual affection. ‘To me he was the perfect man
and in him I saw no fault. The more I think of
him the more I am convinced that my opinion of
him was and is correct. He was the Virginian with-
out guile.

What a galaxy of great men was the one of which
he formed a part. MacLeary, Shepard, W. L. Pra-

ther of ‘Texas; Peters, Weaver, the Ewings of

Tennessee; John Green and little English of Arkan-
sas; Feagin, Hogue and Fergusson of Alabama;
Vinson of South Carolina; the Breckinridges and
Logan of Kentucky; Ammen of Maryland; Hobson,
Burks, Thom and a host of others from Virginia;
and so many more whose names now adorn the
pages of the country’s history.
W. H. Taytosr, 778.

¢

ROBERT FOREE, ’27, is illumination manager of
the Louisville Gas & Electric Company.

 

 

 

 

 

 

A
Ay

ee e
cA a a
es

Boston Massacre

... Fire if you dare, fire and be damned!”
An icy snowball thudded against Captain
Preston’s well-tailored ribs. Trembling with rage,
he cautioned his men: “Hold your peace!’’ A
group of shivering idlers on the Boston street
rapidly became a mob.

The mob pressed closer. ‘‘Lobster-backs!”
jeered one Crispus Attucks, coffee-hued blacka-
moor. Then cat-calls, vile and insulting epithets,

followed by a volley of hard-packed snowballs,

some rock-pitted.

The Redcoats made little noises with their guns.
‘Hold your peace!” cried Captain Preston. They
did; but the mob, now one great stupid animal,
got louder, and the big-lipped Negro bolder.
Soon he found a smooth pine board, raised it,
thwacked a soldier’s rump. The Redcoat turned,
point-blanked his musket in Attucks’ face. Spit!
Flash! Crack! Negro Attucks screeched, fell dead.
Other muskets spat and flashed. The mob recoiled
in panic, leaving a sprawl of bodies (five starkly
stiff) in the street. Blood oozed on the dirty snow.

The soldiers, now ashamed, stood quiet. Captain.

Preston walked down the line, struck up their
guns. :
But it was too late to pretend that Massa-

 

chusetts had not defied its King. Drums beat,
bells tolled, more Redcoats issued from the
barracks.

‘‘The Governor! The Governor!’”’... Act-
ing-Governor Hutchison, white face set in hard
lines, shouldered through the mob. “Captain

Preston, what means this?’’ he _ thundered.

é¢ s

Consider yourself and your men under arrest,
® 93 é¢ ° 3
sir.” To the mob: ‘“‘Disperse at once, to your
homes.” ...

So, in part, Time would have reported the
Boston Massacre of March 5, 1770, under the
reign of King George III. Nor would Time
have omitted the events aggravating the affray—
the townsmen’s just resentment at the presence of
two British regiments in the free capital of a loyal
province, their just rage at having to pay for
Redcoat board and keep. 3

So, too, would Time have reported the turbu-
lent mass-meeting of the day after: how Samuel
Adams, popular emissary, forced Acting-Governor
Hutchison to withdraw the troops to Castle Wil-
liam in the harbor. Time would have stressed the
subsequent trial of Captain Preston and his men;
how Josiah Quincy and John Adams, patriots
both, astute lawyers, defended the soldiers, that
even-handed justice might be done.

 

Is
Vy

Cultivated Americans, impatient with cheap sensationalism and windy bias,
turn increasingly to publications edited in the historical spirit. These publi-
cations, fair-dealing, vigorously impartial, devote themselves to the public weal
in the sense that they report what they see, serve no masters, fear no groups.

 

   

 

 
 

Eis. ks 7 FESS, Jott erat
The Weekly Newsmagazine

NEW YORK

 

CHICAGO

 

 

 

 

 

 

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A CHRISTMAS GREEIING—WM. M. MILLER:

Nishapur, Persia.
My dear Friends:

Once more, after an absence of two and a_ half
years, I find myself back in Nishapur, the city of
Omar Khaygam. I have always had a special affec-
tion for this little city, because it was here that I
baptized my first Persian converts just eight years
ago. When I think of that first visit to Nishapur I
can realize more clearly the changes that have been
taking place in Persia during the last few years.
Then I came from Meshed over the mountains on a
donkey in three days. This time we made the jour-
ney by automobile in ease and comfort in six hours,
meeting at least thirty other cars on the way all
loaded with pilgrims going to the Shrine at Meshed.
The road is excellent now, and horses and: carriages
have been entirely superseded by automobiles. But
one still meets long trains of camels carrying bales
of merchandise, and troops of village people riding
on donkeys and laboriously making their way on
foot to the Holy City of their desire. There is no
love lost between the motor drivers and the riders
on donkeys and camels!

Another significant change is the freedom which
we now have for our missionary work. Formerly we
were looked upon with much suspicion and even
enmity, and several of the first converts had to en-
dure considerable persecution. But two medical
tours made by our doctor and numerous visits by
evangelistic missionaries and book-sellers have done
much to win the friendship of the people. Other
forces, apart from us, but no less providential than
missionary influences, are also at work, breaking
down the power of the Mullas (the Moslem priests),
and freeing the people from many old superstitions.

Because of the new emphasis on education there
are an increasing number of people who can _ read,
and this brings us an increasing opportunity for
preaching our Gospel through literature. © Much
attractive literature has been prepared during the
last two or three years, and we have been giving out
large quantities of small portions and tracts in the
bazaar free of charge to all who could read.

May this Christmas time bring to each of you a
new understanding of what the coming of the Lord
Jesus has meant to this world, and a new hope for
what He may yet mean to millions. May fullness
of joy be yours at this season and throughout all the
coming year! If my mother and Mrs. Miller were
with me I am sure they would join me in sending
Christmas greetings to you all.

Yours in Christ’s service,

Wan. McE. Mier, 713.
Address: Meshed, Persia.

OBITUARY

DIED: Prof. Milton W. Humphreys, ’69, for
twenty-five years professor of Greek at the Univer-
sity of Virginia. He was educated at Washington
College during the presidency of General Lee, under
whom he served as a soldier in the Confederate army.
tle was graduated with the highest honors from
Washington College where he taught for a time, and
then pursued studies at the University of Leipsig,
Germany, where he graduated with a doctor’s degree.

Prot. Humphreys was a classmate at Washington

College of Prof. Charles A. Graves and they both
died within a fortnight of each other. ‘Together they
stood before General Robert E. Lee as members of
2 class that received from his hand diplomas as
masters of art of the college, a degree then distinc-
tive of the very high scholarship.

DIED: David R. Williams, ’73, suddenly in the
library of his home in Camden, N. C., on November
7th.

DIED: Dr. M. Rowan Barclay, ’87, of Chicago, on
November 28th, at his home. He was buried in Lex-

ington beside the graves of his parents, Mr. and Mrs.
Elihu H. Barclay.

DIED: Van Astor Batchelor, ’98, prominent At-
lanta attorney and for many years a leading figure in
the social and professional life of that city, on Novem-
ber 10th, at the home of his sister at Nashville, N. C.,
following an extended illness.

DIED: Capt. J. Carl Peck, ’12, World War veteran
anid prominent lawyer of Norfolk, Va., died on Jan-
uary 7th, after a long illness. He was born in West
Virginia in 1885 and was educated in law at Washing-
ton and Lee.

DIED: Julian Jackson Kane, ’28, at his home in
Gate City, Virginia, on January 8th, following an ill-
ness with pneumonia.

FROFESSOR CHARLES A. GRAVES, ’69:

Professor Charles A. Graves, aged 78, for over
half a century a noted teacher of law in Virginia uni-
versities, about evenly divided between Washington
and Lee and the University of Virginia, died at his
home in Charlottesville, Va., on November 10th.

During the session of 1865-66, when General
Robert E. Lee assumed the presidency of Washing-
ton College, Mr. Graves entered the institution. In
1868 he received the Robinson medal for highest at-
tainments in Latin, Greek and Mathematics, and the
following year, he received the corresponding medal
in History and English Literature, Moral Philosophy
and Modern Languages. In lieu of the special!
examination which was made the test on other sub-
jects, the basis of competition in the group was an

= ee ee

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

essay. The essay of Mr. Graves was on “The Im-
pediments to High Literary Attainments in the United
States.” The treatment of this abstruse subject was
so able that the professors constituting the committee
of award were greatly surprised when they discovered
that it had been written by a youth only 18 years of
age.

Mr. Graves was made assistant professor of Eng-
hsh and Modern Languages. Soon afterwards he
tcok up the study of Law under J. Randolph Tucker
and the famous teacher of Law, Judge John W.
Brockenbrough. Having graduated in this depart-
ment with high distinction he was in 1873 made as-
sistant professor of Law. Two years later he was
elected professor of Common and Statute Law and
Kquity Jurisprudence. While Mr. Tucker was in
Congress and until he resumed his chair in 1889,
Trof. Graves, with the aid of occasional lectures from
Mr. Tucker and other distinguished lawyers, con-
aucted the entire department. |

Professor Graves was honored with the LL.D. de-
gree by Davidson College in 1894, and by Washing-
ton and Lee University in 1911. In 1895 he was one
of the founders of the Virginia Law Register along
with Judge T. C. Burks and Professor William Minor
Lile of the University of Virginia. He continued as
associate editor for a period of years.

Professor Graves became a member of the law
faculty of the University of Virginia in the fall of
1899, a position which he held until the close of the
session of 1926-27, when he chose to retire on the
terms of the Carnegie Foundation.

°

BIRTHS

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. James Lewis Howe,
jz, “18 and ’21, of Shanghai, China, in December, a
little daughter, Henrietta Marvin.

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Walter E. Smith, ’20,
on November 4th, a daughter, Anne Bennington.

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. W. C. Anderson, ’22,
ot Jacksonville, Fla., a son November 3rd.

VALLEY APPARITION:

Railroad equipment was valued contraband to the
Confederacy. During an occupation of Winchester
General Stonewall Jackson captured a Union locomo-
tive. The nearest Confederate controlled railroad
was at Staunton. Problem: transportation of the
prize over a railless 92 miles. Forty horses drew its
fianged wheels over the valley pike to the southern
terminus.

So goes the story by writer C. FE. Nair, as reported
to him by eyewitness James D. Hillyard, Confederate
veteran. i

PERSONALS

DR. EMMETT W. McCORKLE, ’74, for seventeen
years pastor of Bethesda church, at Rockbridge
Baths, conducted his farewell service and commun-
ion on November 25th. In addition to the members
of his congregation, there were present a number of
friends from other parts of the country, including
Honorable Harry St. George Tucker, ’75. Their
son, Emmett, ’26, had come for the occasion from
Ithaca, N. Y., where he is a student at Cornell Uni-
versity.

THOMAS W. SHELTON, ’93, delivered the prin-

_ cipal address to the Richmond Chapter, Sons of the

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND

PRINTERS

Office Equipment and Supplies

ROYAL
TYPEWRITERS

SURBER >
PUBLISHING CO. |

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

DALTON
ADDING MACHINES

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

American Revolution, at its monthly meeting held
in Richmond on January 11th at the Mosque. The
speaker, taking as his topic, “James Madison, the
Father of the Constitution,” drew a pleasing picture
of the life and character of the great Virginian,
touching especially on his connection with the estab-
lishment of religious liberty and his work in formu-
. lating the Constitution of the United States.

MR. LENNOX B. TURNBULL, ’04, of Haz-

ard, Ky., was in Lexington during Christmas week.

EK. CLYDE HOGE, ’08, was delegated to repre-
sent Washington and Lee University at the Cente-
nary Celebration of the founding of the Ohio
Mechanics Institute, Cincinnati, Ohio. The exercises
took place in Emery Auditorium on November 23rd.

DR. WILLIAM R. LAIRD, ’09, well known
surgeon of Montgomery, W. Va., was honored at
the fall meeting of the Tri-State Medical association
comprising the states of West Virginia, Ohio and
Kentucky by being elected president of the associa-
tion.

THORNTON W. ALLEN, ’11, has been made
the official publisher and agent for many of the fore-
most American colleges. Some of the colleges for
which Mr. Allen has recently published music in-
clude: U. of Alabama, Arizona, Franklin & Mar-
chall, Illinois, Wesleyan, Maryland, Minnesota,
North Carolina State, Lafayette, Penn State, Roa-
noke, Susquehanna, Connecticut Aggies, Hillside,
etc. Mr. Allen is also the compiler and publisher of
the Intercollegiate Song Book, the only official song
book of the American Colleges, in the arranging of
which: over 100 of the best known colleges of the
country participated. The fame of Mr. Allen as the
composer and publisher of the ‘Washington and
Lee Swing” has spread to all parts of the world and
this famous number is now enjoying quite a vogue
in Japan, Australia and England, in addition to hav-
ing been adopted by over eighty colleges and schools
throughout the United States. Recently new
phonograph records have been released by Victor,
Columbia and Brunswick.

MR. FRANCIS P. MILLER, 714, has been
elected chairman of the World’s Student Christian
federation to succeed Dr. John R. Mott. Mr. Miller
is engaged in work at Geneva, Switzerland, and was
notified of the action of the federation from India,
where the appointment was made.

PROF. and MRS. LEWIS TYREE, 715, of the
faculty of the New Jersey Law school, spent the
Christmas holidays in Lexington, their former home.

ROBERT P. HOBSON, ’17, announced that ef-
fective January 1, 1929, he entered a partnership for

the practice of law under the firm name of Wood-
ward, Hamilton, Warfield and Hobson with office
located in the Jnter-Southern Building, Louisville,
Ky. :

~

ALEX BATE, ’28, and BURRK ZIMMERMAN,
28, are studying medicine at the University of Louts-
ville.

RUSSELL GORDON, °'26, is credit manager of
the Louisville branch of the General Motors Accept-
ance Company.

WESLEY (DUKE) PERRY, ’26, is with the
Mengel Body Company. |

HENRY WILSON, ’26, has been transferred by
the Southern Bell Telephone Company to Owensboro,
Ky., where he is wire chief.

MATTHEW V. PILCHER, ’22, is now living in
Wintergarden, Florida.

—-———_-%

"MARRIAGES

MARRIED: Mr. John $.° Strahorn, Jr.,. 25, of
Fayetteville, Ark., and Miss Elizabeth Hughes Oates,
of St. Louis, Mo. Miss Oates was a graduate of

the University of Michigan, having received her
B. A. in 1920 and M. A. in 1923.

 

MARRIED: R. H. Abbott, ’26, of Springfield,
Ill., to Miss Anne Marbold, of Petersburg, Ill., on
November 3rd. ! |

MARRIED: Andrew A. Payne, °26, and Miss
Anastasia H. Dickinson, both of Charleston, West
Va., on January 17th. John C. Morrison, Jr., ’26,

served as best man. |

MARRIED: Stephen A. Guiffra, 29, of Tomaco,
N. J., and Miss Carrie Loetta Johnson, Lexington
High School graduate of last June, on December
12th. Mr. and Mrs. Guiffra will remain in Lexing-
ton until he has completed his Law course.

9%
3

My check enclosed. I wish it were more but for-
tunately I have two dear “Maters”, one Washington
and Lee and the other no less near to me, The Uni-
versity of Texas. I cannot feel as did he who
wrote: |

“How happy could I be with either,
Were tother dear charmer away;
But while ye both tease me together
To neither a word will I say”

but try to please both in my small way.

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
, See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

~McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of »

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

 

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

e

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

 

Charlottesville, Va.

Quality Service

‘Reasonable ‘Prices

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

 

 

How THE OUTSTANDING BOOKS
ARE CHOSEN EACH MONTH

HE Book-of-the-Month Club has a group of five critics

to select the most readable and important new books each
month—Henry Seidel Canby, chairman, Heywood Broun,
Christopher Morley, Dorothy Canfield, and William Allen
White. They also choose the most outstanding book amongst
these, and this is sent to all subscribers, unless they want some
other book which they may specify. Or they need take none at all!

Over 80,000 discriminating people now use this sensible and

convenient service, to keep themselves from missing the best
new books. It has, however, met with this interesting criticism:
“I don’t want anyone to select what books I shall read. I want
to choose my own books.”” What force is there in this objection?

AVE you ever given thought to

the considerations that now

‘move you in deciding to read
any book? You hear it praised by a
friend. Or you see an advertisement of
it in a newspaper. Or you read a review
of it by some critic whose account of it
excites your interest. You decide you
must read that book. Néte, however,
what has happened: it is always recom-
mendation, from some source, that deter-
mines you to read it. True, your choice
is completely free, but you exercise your
choice among recommended books.

Now, what would be the difference,
if you belonged to the Book-of-the-Month
Club? Strange to say, upon analysis,
you will find that in practice you would
be enabled to exercise a greater liberty of
choice and, above all, you would actually
get the books—without fail—that you
decided to read, instead of missing them,
as you now do so frequently.. How is
this effected?

 

How the “Book-of-the-Month”’

is chosen

The publishers of the country submit
what they themselves consider their im-
portant books to the Book-of-the-Month
Club, far in advance of publication. Each
member of the Committee reads these
books independently. Once a month they
meet, and choose the one they agree
upon as being the most outstanding
among those submitted—this is called
the “‘book-of-the-month.” And usually
they select from ten to fifteen other
books, which they consider worthy of

being recommended for one reason or
another.

What is the effect of this? You will
readily admit that books so chosen are
likely to be ones you would not care to
miss. Certainly, they wil have as strong
a recommendation behind them as be-
hind the books you are influenced to
read through other sources.

Nevertheless, tastes differ. This com-
bined vote of the judges is not considered
infallible, and you are not compelled,
willy-nilly, to accept it.

Before the “‘book-of-the-month’’ comes
to you, and a month before tt 15 published,

you receive a carefully written report.

describing the sort of book it is. If you
don’t want it, you specify that some

 

other book be sent instead. You make
your choice from the other important
new books, which are recommended by
the Committee, and carefully described in
order to guide you in your choice. If you
want no book at all, in any one month,
if none of them appeal to you, you specify
that none be sent. If, however, you decide
to take the “book-of-the-month” or any
recommended book, and then find youare
disappointed, you can still exchange it for
any other book you prefer.

Satisfaction Guaranteed

~The ultimate result, therefore, is that

you really choose your own books—but
with more discrimination than heretofore
—and moreover, you are given a guaran-
tee of satisfaction with every book you
obtain upon the recommendation of our
Committee.

The cost of this thorough-going, sensi-
ble and convenient service is—nothing!
The cost of the books is the same as if
you got them from the publisher himself
by mail! And the only obligation you
have is to take at least four books a year
—any four books!—out of the 150 or
more reported upon by the Committee
in the course of the year.

Send for our prospectus which explains
how smoothly this service is operating
for over 80,000 discriminating people.
Your request will involve you in no
obligation to subscribe.

 

 

     
     
    

Handed to you
by the postman |
|—the outstand- |
fing new books
| you are anxious |
not to miss!

   
 

 

 

 
 

BOOK-OF-THE-MONTH CLUB, Inc. 34-G
218 West 40th St.,.New York, N. Y.

Please send me your prospectus outlining how the Book-of-the-
Month Club operates. This request involves me in no
obligation to subscribe to your service.

SoS] ee eS ee ae a ee a a a a a Ee Se ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

<a
ie

 

fo Se cantata at ab

 

 

i IR a ania is aaa tla re beatles

