 

wa Uncle Dan's @&

OLD VIRGINIA HICKORY CURED HAMS

Cured by Old Colonial Recipe

Smoked with Hickory Wood, Brown as a Berry, Sweet as a Nut

Shipped All over the World, Direct to Consumer from Smokehouse on the Farm

Every Ham Guaranteed Satisfactory

OWEN HAM CO.

BOX A

Write for New Price Schedule

D. B. OWEN, ‘12
DOYLESVILLE, VA.

 

 

 

 

THE Ata aoinNi MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

E. C. Carrrety, President
E. L. GRAHAM, JR., Treasurer

VeERBON FE. Kemp, Editor
Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va.,, September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
“CUB ee 5 Joseph: Amaeeeow, "O2 21... 20
Seethe Campus ....sh.pcneuny sees 6 me 6-10 Lieut.-Col. W. D. A. Anderson, ’02.... 20
Administration: New President ............... 6 Home Coming Day, November 1/7th............ 21
Faculty Introductions: Prof. William Coan...... 11 VSM kc wise eT 6 5k 5 0G a0 chs 6 Meee 22
mee*Chapel and Museum ..). <<) .i@ameeeee eee «ss 12 Fiery Cot tie eo o'e 6 tre mibin bs » one 22
MeMCtICS .... 2.0 0s die cle oe pals # sm nnn oars 13-17 [aR e oso is I so oo ds eee ob ON 23-24
mLUMNI: Henry F. Martimy 215 Vccuy ts <-- 18 | Os SERA EO CSS 0+ cep ews oh cee 24-26
Arthur McCain, “14s cians © 6k 18 Dr. ay, cerectea a remment ... wk ee sess 27-28
Rt. Rev. W. G. McDowell, ’02........ 18 a, . ys bea whe noob 28-30
Carrington C. Tutwiler, 96........... 19

 

 

BOLE Y >. BOOK: 5 1ORE

Special: BIOGRAPHIES of LEE and JACKSON

(Prices on application)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00

Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager

Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Grorce H. DENNY
“elected president”

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

Vot. [V NOVEMBER, 1928 No. 4
The Year
Student registration means tuition fees. Tuition A new daily routine was instituted. Student

fees balance an inadequate endowment income with
operating expense. They are the variable between
deficit and surplus. Floods, storms and crop fail-
ures appeared to be the causes for a falling off in
registration. By mid-summer administrative officers
were gravely concerned. Alumni were appealed to.

In Lexington the torrents descended. Tourist
travel decreased. But the campus greens grew ver-
dantly. Soggy and quiet, Lexington awaited the
opening of college. Spongy and brilliant, the campus
bade welcome.

First comers were the tall and rangy, short and
stocky, fleet and balanced youths to compose the
1928 Football Squad. Grateful for the soft resilient
turf on the new Wilson Field they pounded off sur-
pius poundage, loosened stiff joints, flexed muscles
and studied strategy and tactics.

Betimes, professors tanned from fishing and camp-
ing trips, sea coast visits and cross country touring
or bearing the academic palor of summer study re-
turned, reviewed lectures, planned new courses, com-
posed the Faculty of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity.

Fraternity houses were opened and victrolas oiled.
Student house managers dickered with cooks, mails
and butlers, with merchants and supply salesmen;
pondered last year’s deficits.

Gawky and ill-at-ease or poised and self-confident,
strange new faces appeared, hesitatingly made their
way about the campus, located their pre-engaged
lodgings, shifted and shuffled in line for the slow
grinding of ponderous matriculation machinery,
donned traditional freshman caps, attended innu-
merable lectures on what, when and why to do at
Washington and Lee, were feted, dined, escorted,
badgered and beleaguered by Fraternity rushers;
created the class of 1932.

Old and new faces appeared at the gymnasium,
auditorium pro tem, peered at the formal Faculty
array, heard President Henry Louis Smith briefly
open the session.

Gruff, efficient, busy Registrar E. S. Mattingly
announced that students registered by October 6th
numbered 905, more than ever before at that time in
previous years. Official and alumni activity born of
midsummer alarm had been productive.

slumbers within hearing distance of the college bell
were tollfully interrupted at 8 A. M., student break-
fasts were gulped at 8:25, first classes met at 8:30,
lunch at 12:30; classes, laboratory and athletics con-
sumed full afternoons. Students and faculty ex-
pressed a general approval of the new system.

Eleven men were chosen by Coach Herron to
demonstrate his teachings against Lynchburg Col-
lege. A smoother and more finished performance
than is usual in an opening game was given by each
of the first and second elevens. One Mr. Thibideau
did most of the pigskin laden stepping. Mr. Lott,
Mr. White, Mr. Eberhardt, Mr. Faulkner and Mr.
Barnett completed the back-field performance behind
an efficient line; score, W. & L. 58, Lynchburg 0.

On the following Saturday the mettle of the Foot-
ball Team was tried and tested against the strong,
heavy and potent eleven from North Carolina State
College. Again the above back-field coterie, flash-
ingly assisted by a long and lean sophomore end by
the name of Leigh Williams, demonstrated a sound
training in the fundamentals of the game, this time
against a determined and powerful opposition. Score,

W.& L. 38, N. C. State 6.

Alumni planned to entertain Mr. Herron and his
pupils at Lexington, Ky., on October 13; at Charles-
ton, W. Va., on October 20; at Knoxville, Tenn.,
on October 27; to be entertained at Charlottesville,
Va., on November 3 and at Lexington, Va., on No-
vember 17; to dine in New York on November 9
and journey to Princeton for the increasingly im-
portant engagement with the Tigers on the 10th; to
visit the nation’s capital for the Maryland game on
November 24 and to close the season in the warm
radiance of the Florida sun and Jacksonville hospi-
tality on Thanksgiving Day, November 29.

Privately students made good resolutions to study
hard, attend classes regularly and bring credit to
self, college and family.

A bare quorum of trustees met on October 11, re-
ceived the resignation of President Henry Louis
Smith, elected their one time president, Dr. George
H. Denny, now president of the University of Ala-
bama, to succeed him; elected banker W. McC. Mar-
tin, “95, of St. Louis, Mo., to Board membership.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

On the Campus

Publications:

The Ring-tum Phi, student weekly, founded 1897,
appeared on news-print paper in seven column form
with a regular newspaper makeup and new features
extending its news radius beyond campus confines.
Reason: student editor, Henry P. Johnson, experi-
enced in newspaper work. The Mink, allegedly stu-
dent humorous publication, did not appear at. all.
Reason: Faculty frowns backed by student and alumni
scowls. The Southern Collegian, oldest student pub-
lication (founded 1865) revived last year, planned to
stimulate student literary endeavor, to issue bi-monthly ;
resurrected the annual Santini medal award (founded
1870 by Mr. Joseph Santini of New Orleans, for the
writer of the best essay appearing each year in the
Southern Collegian.) Tur ALUMNI MAGAZINE, official
alumni association organ, newest publication connected
with Washington and Lee (founded 1924) sought
one thousand new subscribers. Reason: to make
monthly publication practicable. Result: in doubt;
required subscriptions not yet received.

Troubadours:

Aesthetes, drama minded folk, and other mature
parties interested in student dramatic activity won-
dered. ‘The Troubadours, student dramatic and mu-
sical organization, jointly conceived by E. B. Shultz,
16, Dr. J. L. Howe, and V. E. Kemp, ’20, in 1920,
has taken a more serious turn of late years. Won-
derers envisioned the possibility of a nationally recog-
nized drama laboratory, of jazzless musical endeavor
—of a little theatre on the campus.

Student Body:

Students govern themselves at Washington and Lee.
Representatively elected officers and executive com-
mitteemen make and enforce rules, call and conduct
assemblies, hear and try cases in violation of the famed
honor system, maintain an office. Under their di-
rection is the Freshman council, strong armed and
judicial minded upper class body charged with the
assimilation of Freshmen.

To be assimilated Freshmen must wear a small blue
cap topped by a white button, must always _ salute
passing students with the traditional “Hi, gentlemen” ;
must remain indoors after 10 P. M.; must attend all
called rallies and cheer practices; must not appear in
public in unconventional attire, i. e., knickers, blazers,
spats, unless commanded to do so as in a pajama pa-
rade to celebrate an athletic victory; must not escort
a young lady to a dance or appear at a dance with-
out some symbol of his collegiate verdure such as
green socks and a green tie.

Disobedience means a summons from the _ potent

Freshman council; a summons means a trial; q trial 4
often means a_ sentence—sometimes an acquittal aim
sentences are measured in “licks”; they range from
two to ten according to the gravity of offense. Tp.
struments (paddles) are furnished by the culprit— —
leverage by the council.

Straw Vote:
Sponsored by the Ring-tum Phi, students indicated

their choice for President of the United States. ag
Previously (May, 1927) they had nominated their

choice for the Democratic party in mock convention. —

By straw vote they polled 261 votes for their mock @

convention nominee, Al Smith; 178 for his opponent, —

Herbert Hoover.
al ca

*

ADMINISTRATION
New President:

In June, 1901, a tall, angular and scholarly pro-
fessor of Latin strolled homeward from the annual —

boat crew race, was met by the Secretary of the W. ga

& L. Board of Trustees and informed that he had a

been elected acting President of Washington and Lee _

University. Surprised but willing he took over the
responsibilities of that office at the age of thirty. A
few months later his election was made permanent.

For ten years thereafter Dr. George H. Denny
served so ably that in 1912 he was called to the presi-
dency of a much larger institution, the University of
Alabama. His departure brought loud lamentations
from alumni and students who had learned to revere
him as “Mike” Denny—tolerant, human and _ genial
friend; shrewd, aggressive educational promoter;
firm and able administrator.

From Davidson College, N. C., came “Mike” Den-
ny’s successor, wiry, graying, militant educator;
fluent, eloquent and penetrating speaker; aggressive,
ambitious and practical idealist, Henry Louis Smith,
to revolutionize entrance and scholarship require-
ments; to enforce discipline; to take up the work
where his able predecessor had left off.

From New York came news of the Rosenthal mur-
der—tame incident in the light of modern machine gun
crime; came press dispatches magnifying the names of
“The Wop,” “Gyp-the-Blood” and “Lefty Louie.”
Right handed but revolutionary, the new President had
been christened “Louis.” Snickering, smarty stu-
dents surreptitiously supplied the sobriquet “Lefty
Louie.” |

An unseemly student jest, the sobriquet soon be-
came a transcendent symbol—a symbol of serene con-
viction, of educational statesmanship, of fearless prog-
ress; became a term of admiration and endearment.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

President Smith added further to the University’s
buildings and equipment, endowment and income, stu-
dent attendance and scholastic standing, prestige and
fame; served seventeen full and fruitful years during
which he changed unsympathetic misunderstanding in-
to admiring co-operation ; blended personal desires and
ambitions into workable and efficiently harmonious
endeavor; symbolized and enthroned the sobriquet
“Lefty.”

New needs arose. Dr. Smith, ever progressive.
arose to meet them. But age and approaching retire-
ment (automatic at the age of 70) loomed against the
background of previous progress. At the June Board
meeting, Dr. Smith spoke of his 70th birthday, July
30, 1929; reminded the Board that his successor must
soon be chosen. ‘To the Board at their meeting on
October 11 he presented his resignation, effective July
1, 1929.

Regretfully, inevitably, the Board accepted, made
retirement provisions, gratefully recalled valued and
noteworthy additions, innovations, and enhancements
attributable to the energy and foresight of the retiring
president, (in part—the Chemistry building; Graham
Dormitory; Doremus Gymnasium; enrollment from
600 to 900; revival of the Lee School of Journalism;
establishment of the Department of Public Speaking ;
more strict requirements for entrance and graduat’on,
etc.) appointed a committee to draft a resolution of
appreciation.

Prepared, the Board unanimously recalled their one
time president—tall, angular and scholarly Latin Pro-
fessor, George H. Denny, now 58, from the Univer-
sity of Alabama, to forward the movement so ably
carried on in 1902-1912; so ably advanced by President
Smith, 1912-1929,

Dean:

Fort Worth, Texas, will be the scene of the an-
nual meeting of the Southern Association of Second-
ary Schools and Colleges, December 5, 6, 7. To Fort
Worth will go venerable Dean Harry D. Campbell,
‘82, representing Washington and Lee. En route he
might stop at Memphis; Little Rock; at Shreveport
and Birmingham upon the return trip. Alumni, as
always, will assemble with pleasure to greet, see and
hear Dean Campbell.

Dean’s List:

Distinctions are valued in this democratic age. A
new distinction may now be achieved by proficient
W. & L. students. Highly creditable scholarship and
conduct records place students achieving them upon
the Dean’s list. The Dean’s list is a passport to un-
excused absences, unusual privileges.

 

W. McCuesnéy Martin, 95

“Working Member”

Trustee:

Referring back to committee proposed constitutional
provisions changing the complexion of their body,
the Board on October 11 elected to their membership
W. McC. Martin, B.A., 95, of St. Louis, Mo., law-
yer, banker, public servant, chairman of the Board of
the St. Louis Federal Reserve Bank (see ALUMNI
MAGAZINE, January ;1928). Mr. Martin has kept
contact with the University, has served her generously,
has been honored by her (Phi Beta Kappa 1926),
now comes to the Board as a working member.

Opening:

Some nine hundred students informally straggled
to the gymnasium for the formal convention of the
1928-29 session.

Mooted is the numerical assignment of this session
in the chronology of years. Whether the one hun-
dred forty-sixth or the one hundred seventy-ninth
session, Washington and Lee was briefly and optimis-
tically opened by President Henry Louis Smith —
probably the last session that he would officially con-
vene.

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Had he been so minded President Smith might
have briefly informed and entertained new students
by an expression of opinion as to Washington and
Lee’s attainable possessions. Such an opinion in our
estimation might have been phrased as follows:

Traditions, hallowed by sacrificial lives, practical
from mature experience, productive, are here for in-
fusion.

Splendid are our courses of study; unfair, out-
worn and crippling are some of their combinations
into requirements for graduation.

Blessed with a working honor system and an effi-
cient student government we have an incomplete and
inadequate system for the proper direct‘on of new
students during their first year.

Able, unusually proficient, talented and sympathetic
are the professors who direct and apply your instruc-

tion. Smooth, agreeable and harmonious are their
individual relationships. Collectively they react con-
servatively.

Particularly strong and well manned are the Law
School, the Department of Chemistry, the School of
Commerce.

Well balanced, agreeably successful and prosperous,
our athletic relationships within and without, are far
above the average.

Incomplete and ineffective is our inherited system
of official faculty regulation of student discipline.
Thus ridicule, sarcasm and disrespect are often ex-
pressive of the general campus spirit.

Thus, our moral reputation has suffered, been ex-
aggerated and warped in the public mind.

Loyal, generous and co-operative, our alumni have
reflected credit upon Alma Mater, have always _re-
sponded to her demands.

Inadequately endowed, handicapped for funds, yet
fairly well equipped, this is the institution you are
about to enter.

FUNDS:

Eight years ago Washington and Lee appealed to
her sons for a Million Dollar Endowment Fund. An
early subscriber was the General Education Board
(Rockefeller Foundation )—$400,000 upon the condi-
tion that alumni and friends gave (paid in) twice as
much.

Alumni and friends met the Rockefeller offer with
subscriptions ; during the eight years have paid in over
one-half million dollars to the Fund. As agreed the
Rockefeller Board sent checks totaling one-half that
amount; thrice renewed their contingent offer.

The last Rockefeller renewal expired July Ist.
Asked to renew this offer the Board hesitated, pon-
dered the eight years time extension, the three hundred
thousand dollars in unpaid subscriptions by Washing-
ton and Lee alumni and friends.

Late in September the General Educational Boat
wired: “The Board reluctantly agrees to extend their 4

offer until January 1, 1929.”

Meaning: an act of generous consideration, ob- +4

viously this is the last renewal of a generous

Offer; —
obviously Washington and Lee will lose approximately —

one hundred fifty thousand dollars or a part thereof if

unpaid subscriptions are not met before Jan. 1, 1929, 4
Negotiable notes for discount at banks are acceptable

in payment of these pledges.

BURKS FUND:

To honor and perpetuate the name of late Judge an
Martin P. Burks, ’70, at Washington and Lee and to _
advance and further develop the Washington and Lee

Law School, alumni spontaneously inaugurated an ap-
peal for $100,000 with which to endow a Burks Chair
of Pleading and Practice.

Over seventeen thousand dollars have been pledged
—a goodly portion paid in. The appeal is being

quietly carried on by the alumni committee in charge.
Facts to be noted: cash payments to the Burks

Fund received before Jan. 1, 1929, will secure to the
fund a fifty percent equivalent from the Rockefeller

Foundation (see above). Payments made to the Burks —

Fund may be credited as payments on outstanding en-

dowment pledges by donors with delinquent endow- 4
Payments to the Burks Fund —

ment subscriptions.
may be made in four equal annual instalments.
fe ——__—

POEMS ON LEXINGTON LIFE

Negotiations are now being carried on with Lit-

tle, Brown and Co., a publishing company of Boston, —

Mass., with regards to printing a book of poetry
written by Dr. Benjamin F. Sledd, ’86, Professor
of English at Wake Forest, N. C. The title of the
book is to be “Old Lexington Life,” and the poems
are the true experiences of the author during his
five years of college life here, from 1881 to 1886.

Dr. Sledd, although now a professor in another
school, has never lost his affection for his Alma
Mater, and has presented the manuscript for his
book to W. & L., the proceeds of which will be used
in whatever way the faculty thinks best.

He was born in Big Island, Va., and attended
school at Johns Hopkins as well as here. While
here he won a total of six prizes, scholarships and
medals, and was a member of the Phi Beta Kappa
honorary fraternity. He has been at Wake Forest
since 1888, and holds the degrees of M.A. and Litt.D.

— ——+<fe-—_____

MR. and MRS. “EDDIE” CAMPBELL, ’18, of
Washington, D. C., were visitors at the home of Dean
Harry D. Campbell during the middle of October.

  

re aA
=n

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

Secretary-Treasurer:

The investment of
one and one-half mil-
lions of dollars en-
dowment, the collec-
tion of fees and in-
come, the expenditure
of funds, the general
supervision of build-
ings and grounds are
but a few of the mul-
tifarious responsibili-
ties of bright-eyed,
dynamic, shrewd
Treasurer Paul M.
Penick, B.L., ’96.

President ofa
bank, of a motor
company, of a real
estate development company, partner in a law firm
and in many another non-professional enterprise, the
Secretary-Treasurer is well qualified to serve as the
spine of Washington and Lee University. Somewhat
frail in body but keenly alert in mind he was_ per-
turbed by a decrease in mid-winter student registra-

 

 

PauL M. PENICK
No red ink

tion.

To Mr. Penick student registration is trans‘ated
into figures—figures to be entered in red or black
ink—surplus, balance or deficit. Many years have
passed since the red ink of deficit in operating ex-
pense appeared on the Washington and Lee books.

President Smith shared Treasurer Penick’s perturba-
tion. He bestirred Registrar Mattingly, Alumni
Secretary Kemp and efficient private Secretary Ella
CG. Webster to student-getting activity; wrote letters
to alumni, prospective students and their parents, to
High and Preparatory School officials. Registrations
came tumbling in, the shadow of probable deficit waned,
Treasurer Penick, suffering from a serious illness, was
pleased.

Journalism: } ;

The International Press Exhibition was being held
at Cologne, Germany. ‘There was a booth devoted to
Schools of Journalism in the United States. In that
booth was an exhibit by and of the Lee Memorial
School of Journalism of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, prepared by ambitious Journalism Professor
R. B. Ellard.

Attending the convention was James Melvin Lee,
Director of the Department of Journalism, New
York University. Upon his return Director Lee
wrote to President Smith, “It will interest you to
know that at Cologne the most striking exhibit in the
booth devoted to Schools of Journalism in the United

States was that of Washington and Lee. Beautifully
prepared, the arrangement of the items certainly de-
serves some commendation from you for the excel-
lent taste shown.”

Publicity:

Alumni and friends look to the press for news
about Washington and Lee. In charge of sending
news dispatches to the press (except athletic news
which is under the direction of the Athletic Associ-
ation) is the School of Journalism. Ambitious, a
large portion of the news dispatches relating to
Washington and Lee in general are but publicity
items for the School of Journalism in particular.
Notable has been the unprecedented publicity given to
the Southern preparatory school press convention
sponsored here annually. Noted was the over prom-
inent placing of the School of Journalism in press no-
tices of the resignation of President Henry Louis
Smith and the election of Dr. George H. Denny.
Result : the exclusion of legitimate news of more gen-
eral interest, the distortion in the public mind of the
relative importance of our otherwise capable depart-
ment of journalism.

Registrar:

Unpreparedness is
not the habit of
sternly _ efficient,
smoothly methodical
Registrar E. S. Mat-
tingly. Yet the open-
ing of college came
near to finding him
unprepared. Reason:
an automobile acci-
dent near Staunton
as he was driving
toward Washington
with his mother early
in September. He
was slightly injured,
and his mother more
seriously so.

Despite injury and filial worry, Registrar Mattingly
was on the job for the ponderous grinding of cumber-
some matriculation machinery September 11-12-13.
Desk cleared (as always), prepared, he announced
that by October 6 exactly 905 students had qualified
and been accepted for entrance at Washington and

Lee.

 

E. S. MATTINGLY

Never unprepared

o,
en es

JOHN G. RAGSDALE, ’23, of El Dorado, Ark.,
with his wife and two little boys, were visitors to
Lexington this summer.

10 7 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The First Half of an Ideal Undergraduate Course

§

By Henry Louts SMITH

As a prelude to my contribution to this issue of
THe ALUMNI MaGazIneE let me state that as George
Washington and Robert E. Lee were both rebels
against long-established forms of government, and
as General Lee was a still more daring rebel against
the long-established usages of college training which
ruled the educational world of 1865, so as his edu-
cational successor I am a thoroughly convinced rebel
against the established and rigid curriculum of the
so-called “liberal” college training of today. It is
in my judgment a harmful survival of ancient and
outgrown aims, methods, and “courses” of study,
and hinders both the development and leadership of
the South of today.

As our grandfathers retained with a sort of chiv-
alrous devotion that inefficient and hampering form
of industry known as chattel slavery long after the
other Christian nations had outgrown and abolished
it and thus woefully retarded the industrial and
commercial development of the South, so today our
so-called “higher education’ is failing to furnish
this industrial-scientific age with effective leadership,
and is sorely hampering the happiness and prosperity
of the 20th-century South.

A whole volume could not cover such a complex
subject. This brief article is only to start you to
thinking along new lines.

Let me suggest five undergraduate “courses” now
almost totally neglected or unimagined by our facul-
ties, which would vivify and transform our campus
ideals and swing our annual crop of graduates and
their state or section into well-deserved leadership.

Let the basal and immediate study of every ma-
triculate be Himself and his American Environment.

1. Let him learn to be an expert chauffeur and
care-taker of his Bodily Organism. Becoming an
expert in Physiology and Personal Hygiene, in feed-
ing, repairing, and maintaining in buoyant health
and vigor his body-engine, in intimate knowledge of
its faults and powers and_ peculiarities—no words
can describe the value and profit of this neglected
element of a future leader’s “college education.”

2. Let him supplement this by a “course” in his
personal Psychology and Mentality. As the body-
expert helped him test his bodily powers and _possi-
bilities when beginning his bodily training, let him
under a trained expert study his own mental, moral,
and emotional nature. A short course of ethics and
applied psychology, with expert guidance in a survey
of American vocations and industries, would enable
him before his undergraduate course was half over

to lay out at least the general direction of his Wisest
and most congenial life-work.

3. Let a third specialty of his first two years of
undergraduate training be a general study of our
American Civilization, his human environment, its
arts and industries, its laws and customs, its relj-
gions and races and social problems. Let his cam-
pus, his home-town, his home-state, his church, his
social circle, furnish the laboratory where a future
leader can thus be practically trained in American
Citizenship.

4. A fourth element in this ideal college training
is a general knowledge of his physical and material
environment, a general review, under suitably trained
experts, of the Applied Sciences which have trans-
formed American life within a_ single generation.
The keynote of modern civilization is science, its
leading dynamic is the application of the attitude
and method of science to every human problem and
enterprise.

5. The fifth essential element of this first half of
an ideal undergraduate education is the study and
use of our English Language. To be able to under-
stand it clearly and accurately, to write it with force
and clarity, to speak it with clearness and energy
and convincing power—this is possibly the most es-
sential and the most neglected of all the elements of
ideal college training.

The above very brief and hurried article is merely
suggestive, and covers only a few studies of the
first half of an ideal undergraduate education. The
ancient superstition that the most “liberal” and “lib-
eralizing” education of an American citizen is to be
given by a series of intellectual gymnastics bearing
no discoverable relation to his personal life or its
personal problems is as much opposed to modern
psychology as trial by combat is to modern ideals
of justice.

NEW COURSES:

Re-inaugurated, the department of Philosophy,
dormant since the lamented death of brilliant, pene-
trating, loveable thinker, James R. Howerton, offered
three new courses under Prof. W. W. Morton, one-
time assistant pastor of the Lexington Presbyterian
Church, part time professor of Bible, now duly elec‘ed
and full fledged professor of Philosophy.

Newspapers are often sued for slander, infringe-
ment, etc. To the School of Journalism menu were
added courses in Libel and Copyright law; also pub-
lic opinion and short story writing—all to be taught
by new professor, W. L. Mapel, B.A., B.J.

  

.
ob ee is Radia eae es ee dee Ss Mehl akg S464 dee ae

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE | 1]

Ss

E aculty

INTRODUCTION—PROF. WILLIAM COAN:

Collegiate training in the theories of business is given
in the School of Commerce, ably directed by Dr. G.
D. Hancock at Washington and Lee. Most pract‘cal
in the School of Commerce is the department of Ac-
counting, instituted in 1920.

To teach this practical course, Dr. Hancock en-
gaged Prof. Wm. Coan, native of New Orleans, La.,
graduate of Palmer College, Whitman College and
Columbia University. Four years later Prof. Coan
was made full professor of Accounting and given an
assistant for his growing department

 

a department
which has increased in enrollment for courses from
66 in 1920 to 210 in 1928.

Prior to entering W. & L. professorial ranks, Prof.
Coan taught at Palmer College, Whitman College,
various high and preparatory schools; was in private
business.

Beset by ill health Prof. Coan has developed his
department; has developed four certified public a--
countants to radiantly reflect credit upon Alma Mater
and the professor of Accounting—in C.P.A.’s W. J.
[,. Patten, ’23;: M. L. Goodman, ’26; E. E. Rosboro,
'25; and R. W. Terry, ’23. In each case the Wash-
ington and Lee representatives passed the difficult and
rigorous C.P.A. examination with some especial dis-
tinction

 

achieved the highest grades or were the
youngest applicants to secure the coveted degree
(awarded under state regulation as is admission to
the bar).

Clever, witty, genial, Prof. Coan is an able master
of ceremonies at Faculty social functions; an able
director of amateur dramatic endeavor; a student of
the French drama; a discriminating lover of good
music (he plays the piano). Withal, a man of figures
and balance sheets, of adding machines and calculators.

NEW PROFS:

As announced (ALUMNI MaGAzINE Aug. 1928)
few major changes in the Faculty were made for the
1928-29 session. ‘To Lexington came Prof. Wm. L.
Mapel, assistant professor of Journalism; Lemuel L.
Hill as instructor in Biology; Paul S. Shedd, assist-
ant in Electrical Engineering; James H. Protet, as-
Here they assumed new duties,
got acclimated, attended a Faculty “mixer.”

sistant in History.

2
e >

A. G. CUMMINGS, 717, is the new principal of
the Farmville High School to succeed Prof. Tate,
who was transferred to Worsham school. For the
past five years Mr. Cummings has taught at Exmore,
Northampton County.

 

Pror. WILLIAM COAN
Clever, Witty, Genial

THE LEE MUSEUM

Alumni interested in Virginia, Lee and Confeder-
ate mementoes and relics can secure the following
items in these lines by writing to the Lee Museum:

General Lee after Appomattox (Dr. Franklin

ERR UC). Seas sss. ees 2 Se . $2.50
Essays Critical and Historical (Mrs. Mary H.

as Se 2 A . 1.00
Confederate Bills (genuine) ..........each 35¢ & 50c
Wall Hangers of Washington and Lee University .10
Pamphlets on the Lee Museum .............. 10
Reproductions of General Lee’s Will .......... 25
COCR FMI ai. ss a a eee oie ts ORIEN ae
Reproductions of Gen. Lee’s Farewell Address

iE PAIR Gain seein kininase Sp 6410 29

Reproductions of Great Seal of the Confederacy.. 1.50

Any of the above articles will be sent postpaid upon
receipt of price. Address:

Lee Museum CoMMITTEE,
Washington and Lee University,

Lexington, Virginia.

All profits are used for the upkeep of the Chapel and
the Museum. Remittance should be by check or money
order.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LATEST ADDITIONS:

From the Rev. W. P. McCorkle, °76, Burlington,
Pe

A set of photographs of various members of the
Faculty connected at Washington and Lee during
the presidency of General Lee; a group picture of
the Guard of Honor composed of students of R°ch-
mond College, escorts for Valentine’s recumbent
statue when transported from his studio to Lex-
ington.

A number of Confederate bills and other articles.

From Dr. Benjamin Sledd, ’86, Wake Forest, N. C.:

Manuscript entitled “Old Lexington Lights” (by
himself) in poetry. ‘Two most striking portions
(sonnet sequence) composed of four sonnets writ-
ten on George Washington’s statue on the Main
Building; a long tribute to Prof. Carter J. Harris,
many years professor of Latin, entitled “Ad Magis-
trum.” Four or five other manuscripts.

From A. Graham Robinson, 69, Lexington, Va.:

A letter from General Lee to Mr. Robinson’s father,
dated June 26, 1869.

From Vickers B. Watts, ’24, Huntington, West Va.:

A deed, dated May 16, 1793, signed by Henry Lee
as Governor of Virginia, conveying 1000 acres to
John P. Duvall, from whom the land has descended
until at present it is held in life estate by Mr.
Watts’ grandfather, the reversion being to his five
living children.

TOURISTS AND STUDENTS:

The Lee Museum is located in two rooms on the
lower floor of the Lee Memorial Chapel.

The larger of the two rooms contains mementoes
of Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson and other
Confederate officers, given and loaned to the museum.
Pamphlets and documents have been procured from
E. T. Black, of New York, and Dr. W. P. Nye, of
Radford, Va., a Confederate veteran.

In connection with the museum is a Peace Memo-
rial which contains flags of different countries, impor-
tant photographs and books, relevant to international
peace. ‘The student of history could profitably spend
hours studying the historical mementoes preserved in
this “Shrine of the South.”

The Lee collection has a number of personal be-
longings of General Lee, among them a housewife,
used by the General and given to him by his grand-
mother Custis; a black ebony clock bears a plate on

which is engraved, “General Lee’s Reveil matinia *
through the war 1861-65.” FE

In a glass case are the gold embroidery straps worn 3
by Lee in the Second Cavalry U. S. A.; the white _
gauntlets, and chamois sword belt of Lee; a folding pe

camp stool and war flask of the General’s and epau-
lets of both Lee and Jackson when in the U. §. Army.

The Lee family collection of General Bolling Lee
contains the yellow sash and silver spurs worn by a
General Lee at the surrender of the army of North- _
ern Virginia at Appomattox, April 9, 1865; the silver
mounted pistols given by Washington to G. W. P,
Custis and given by him to his son-in-law, General R.

E. Lee; and a large gold open faced watch which had

belonged to General Washington.

A lantern has a card attached bearing this inscrip-
tion, “This lantern was used at General R. E. Lee’s
headquarters throughout the last war and was pre-
sented by General G. W. C. Lee to Lee-Jackson Camp
C. V., and is now the property of the camp.”

A case of drawing instruments of R. E. Lee’s
buried with the Lee silver until after the war, was
presented to the Engineering Department of Wash-
ington and Lee on his retirement as president of the
University.

The piano from the Lee home in Lexington has
been placed in the museum.

In another case is the pall thrown over General R.
FE. Lee’s coffin while his remains lay in state in the
Chapel which he planned and had built.

The memento which interests children is hair from
Traveler’s tail cut from the tail by M. Miley the day
Traveler died.

A brick from the house at Appomattox where the
war between the states came to an end has been do-
nated by C. C. Remsburg, of Lexington.

A sabre of Col. William McLaughlin won by him
during the war was presented by W. & L. by Mrs.
McLaughlin in 1898.

There is an interesting collection of knapsacks,
powder horns, battle axes, cannon balls, and old
fashioned pistols.

A piece of Mexican shell which exploded at the
City of Vera Cruz in 1847, makes a very vivid pic-
ture of that terrible battle.

The sword of Col. John Jordan (1777-1854), who
fought in the war of 1812, has been presented to the
museum by his grand-daughter, Mary McClung Read.
Col. Jordan built the first buildings of Washington
and Lee University after the removal to Lexington;
constructed roads and helped to develop the county of
Rockbridge in various ways.

There are a number of old newspapers which con-
tain interesting historical matter; a copy of the Ulster
County Gazette, published by Samuel Freer and Son,
January 4, 1800; Southern Sentinel, Alexandria, La.,

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

July 21, 1863; The Atlanta Constitutional-Sup plement,
speech of Hon. Ben H. Hill, January 16, 1873.

There are steel engravings of Davis, Lee and Jack-
son, and a number of war letters and historical docu-
ments, also numerous portraits of Lee, Jackson and
members of the Lee and Custis families. A portrait
of Mrs. Daniel Parke Custis (Martha Washington )
by Woolaston is dated 57. In this collection there is
a picture of Mrs. Curtis’ two children, John and
Martha.

The lLetcher-Stevens Collection of mementoes 1s
specially interesting. Among these are the gold spec-
tacles of Governor Letcher; locks of hair of R. E.
Lee and of Stonewall Jackson; a sewing case given to
Virginia Lee Letcher, 1868, by General R. EK. Lee; an
Irish crystal cross given to Virginia Lee Letcher by
Miss Mary Custis Lee; beads and cross of Mother of
Pearl from Bethlehem given to Viginia Letcher Ste-
vens by Miss Mary Custis Lee.

A. memento which all should see is the reproduction
of the seal of the Confederate States of America,
with the motto Deo Vindice and dated Feb. 22, 1862.
This was originally engraved by Joseph S$. Wyon,
chief engraver of her Majesty’s Seals, London, Eng-
land.

——
o

ATHLETICS

During the late winter lawyer.J. P. Herron reviewed
the moderately successful ’27 season in his Pittsburgh
law office, cast his mind’s eye over the yearling ma-
terial in prospect for varsity berths, saw fast and
powerful young sophomore backs, saw no line ma-
terial, sadly shook his graying head, made many dia-
erams and notations on paper, emerged from the
smoke and chill of western Pennsylvania, came to
Lexington, papers in hand, for spring football practice.

After the illuminating spring experiments, Coach
Pat Herron returned to lawyer J. P. Herron’s Pitts-
burgh office, tried cases, made briefs, deleted unsuit-
able play formations, made corrections on his notes,

again returned to Lexington; this time with a settled
plan of attack and defense; with a clear outline of
tactics and strategy.

Incidentally, the husky young gentlemen composing
the 1928 squad who met the coach on Wilson Field
early in September will also compose the first ex-
clusively Herron team. ‘The tactical and psychological
mantle of able, successful Coach DeHart has cast its
shadow over the team for the past two years. Both
mantle and shadow were agreeable and pleasant—yet
a new coach cannot immediately create an unmixed
and unblended psychological and tactical system ex-
clusively his own in the hearts and minds of players
trained under another <egis; previously dominated by
another personality ; motivated by another spirit. Thus
the past two years have been seasons of transition from
able DeHart to able Herron.

Practice started in earnest. Thirty-five chosen
prospects worked hard to convert lawyer Herron’s
charts and notes into ground gaining plays or im-
pregnable defense formations.

Ascendant in the line positions were Capt. Fitz-
patrick, left tackle; Heinie Groop, left guard; “Bill”
Hawkins, right tackle—veterans all. Looming were
Snodgrass, center; Seligman, right guard; and Wil-
liams, end.

Ascendant in the backfield were “Gene” White,
quarter, and “Billy” Lott, half. Brilliantly looming
were Thibadeau (pronounced “Tibbydough’’) — full,
and Faulkner, half—Sophomores; Eberhardt, half;
Barnett, full; Cohen, quarter; and Jones, half—Jun-
iors.

Other candidates alternated in remaining positions.
The opening game approached. The coaches took
stock; assets—one strong dependable line; two bril-
liant back-fields, one good forward passer, one able
pass receiver, two adequate field generals; liabilities
—a meager supply of line substitutes, a weakness at
right end, only ordinary punting, a restricted passing
combination, a grueling schedule.

 

Wuen WASHINGTON AND Lee’s MEN FALL IN LINE

cua,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

7 sryduioy esnoy uojeg P40jxO SUBIIQ Mo wreys uur g aU[}Axouy esooyeosn P40jxQ cracctanetetipel
oi ites a 3 3 sO ye ye hn ye ‘tddississty
ss “Sst wioysommpnog =“. “ST wosuIa| eyoay] _ wangny eossouua | eureqeiy sesueyiy
wreysuru g sue7ziQ MeN suepy  «esnoy uojyeg y40daav14S —s word uosyoer esnoy uojeg rr. 1 oat Srcr), <) ST" Wibsbedeccttasecoeusedha om
ye ye ze 3 3 3 ye ye io =
eureqely ourRyn yy 13.1005) ) tddississtj sesueyiy tH yuradg Sassy “SSI eBajOD “eT “wal “FT “M °S
sueziQ Me suBvziQ MON suBZtiQ MeN sueayiQ MeN suayy suBILIQ MON sUuBIHHO MON ee sueIiQ MON
7 ” 7 a — ze 3 ye ™ ze ze ze ouPInyE
eo asajoD “eT aoUueMIS uinqny sdesi[!W e13109c) Uq4epue A Yo? | e1S10aF sassy “SSIIN “40N SUES]
; 82 “3das aul al
| = ureysuyuLitg sues}iO MeN snqumjo3 oar aay" 24 amauos>er av. “dlls (uinqny) ‘I ‘d ‘V
ze ? 3
yw] ets109D sassy “ssi ouriny e13109T) paemoy jddississt jy epHol yt wosule[) *nog-"ULitg
ureys ura g weysurnig equepy Aiaui05},U0 uosipeW ureys uruLiy g weco(esen |, as — euleqely
ze ze ze ze ze ze 3 ye 7
he es | B154095) yoo], e13.1005) Ayonjzusay uISUODSI AA aoueMas vessouua | sassy. “SSI 1ddississt |
| sz ‘PO 61 “0 zi “PO uOosUIz[9
woysep1eGD a[[}AUse1) edure |. sanqyouay P+9jXO Syqumyjo) woswse[ S9U310[ J wungqny wosuls[) I
3 ye ze 3e ze 7e ye 7 ye ye ZZ sAequiaydag
PPeYD P4L ueUuLin epHolt ‘I WA tddisstsst J ware) Wnog oaprig 938S weuyorwD *N uanqny wospyAeqd uosula] ye ALIeqmMen
| sz “PO 61 "PO Po  ) oee pn ee ek Pe SR
ware erquinjo3 IH tedeq erqunyo3 eee. | SP aqpasayopzeyD eulore) yinos
ze ye
euyorey YON | ueuLin eugorey) Yon Gosuls[ uelT41ayAqseig pure Areyp erursar A
2 e 1Axou a[jtAuosyoe ura aaueMaS aoueMag s SOUBMOG —feccccccccccccccccccccese
me N | eee MIN 71 om xa lt - r ro a : | ~ “ira 7 29URMIS
WIqsepue, | aueyny aessouue] epLiol ft eweqgely puepzaequins erueajAsuesy sy p at L uosA1g
ayiyqse ejue 2 e oaytt4yse sueve Ma se]ye RPORIIFED « °-) Nisetscccnccdcccecces
mAuseN omtAyseN reAY IHAUSEN — SAYSEN HD ON ted omtauseN ae yiqsopue A
aaUueMIG sossouue | yee] er3100*) Ayonjquey erur sar, eueyny sexo] ayesjo5 eZoour}eYD
eyUeny ureys ura g suou} qeuueae snqumjo) susyiy susTiy uUsAR}T MaN CN iF) ape Sea Seb edamaebdabcuccastosete
ze ye ¥ ze . ze ze ye ze - ¥ e131005)
yo] e1s1005 eureqely n’s 1 epLioly wingny ouryny ueuLin J aenz 19019]
equeny equepy eyue eque equepy ItH Pdey euepy SUBILIQ MON RN is | NN Vuessdaiboosine
7 ye we | we. 3 ye 3 7 ww | G29], 3182095)
eset ee vurequly Hiqtopue A ad10432]30 euyore) YON oureqd 2130N ougmny ‘I°W'A
ed 221199 =|" “q ‘uo e a3a usaeyH Ma HIOHON puounqory yAeY 23a]/0D wqumjo) a3a
red & o°d oor M Hed = 1199 H N a be “ wed - 1eD puelAreyy
suyydop suyOF | eT PM USE | eyUysaT A eTeA ‘Id “A ‘I°W'A pueparey “AA euyorey) YNOS | eUTOIeD YON
apAxouy uo} Sur Asguio 33yuU0 STAN uo} Surxe"] uo}sSUeAT U0} Surxe"] WORBUIXOT = =—«.—«§ (CC ett tees eeeeneenes
= wl he " ye 3 | ye ze ‘1 Ayonjusy
sessouus | ' ‘I ‘WA eureqely etaeeen | asus, U1BJSIMYPAO KN , ST VP “YseMm uUeUIMaA-UOS1e7
alAxouy ayft[Auosyoer edure jy qyeuueaes aAuosyper edwey aytAsourery ay[t[Auosyoer Gunamemneey, arr Pe 8" F Tescccessccsnvecesccceseces eDUO
ze ze ze ze ze ze ze ze ze Pp! Ia
sessouue ] a] PF “YSeM uosuls[) e13.1005) aaueMag 872g weuyoiey) “N 4994191] mnqny WisyyNos
[fAxouyy 1Axou aytAxou aytAxou aytAxou esoojeosn aj[t!Axou ! OTTEAXOUS — [| cnccccccccceccccees
- ze “1 ze a — a ze a ze a ze - ze ul . ze a ~~ ze ssSsouus T
eplol 4 | Ayonjyuey WIqsepue, aauReMIaSG UBUILMaA-UOS1e) aT FP “YSeM eureqely tddississtj aaques puel Arey |
| 81 "30 ZI “PO 8z_“3dag | ihadiaiatlieeesed °
| qarorey Suysuey] sey qrorey 040qsU92.15) qarorey edure |, yarey 9oua.1o] 4 0} Surxo"] qarerey | 93838 ‘OD 'N
| Bh Bh ze ye Sh sed 7 5 ye bi
| ee) Gre a7e3IS URSIYHW eng uosprAaed euyorey) GON epHoly 3910 SHEN woste[) eT PF “YSEM =e |
IH ledeyD | aT[IAseaqo]4 TAR I ad S10 IfH [edeqo ade aSpiiquie eq a8e jedey9 ae
+2 | Il 7 eqD | uosPt d tH 5 eyo 4q a = IfH - qo P - 2 Wed be 1l?D tH e | eul[ores) YON
and eur sArA | uosprAaeg eurores YNOG (9ze}G eulfOURD “NO YL eIs1005 Td cA preasepy puel Arey] 3S210.5 SHEA
ayouroy | ers Sanqyous'y uo} Surxe"] puouryory uo} Surxe’] U0} Zurxe’] Benny 0} Surxe"] | cocccscocesscccseccoccos INA
ye ye ze ze ye ze ye ye
T° °A | mes uosuls[> uosplAeg puelAreyy BIUTSATA exyoueoy Yoo], e13109c) ears |
ayouroy U0} Surxe’] Z.1nqsyor1 q HIO}MON Zanqsy4oe| gq IH Pdeyqp yIOk MAN Zanqsyorlq AINE 51 icditivconcntccccttinanl os
ze | ze ze ze ze ze ze ye ye I ‘d A
‘I ‘WA ae" FP “YSeM ergata puelArey sury euyorey YION a7e3]09 Aaupts -uspdurepy ayouroy |
oe yAed aZaljop camera ee =_ uo} Surxe’] uo}eouL d a[TAseq}0p.1e45 — A | Cccccccceccocccccocosece PrIuLs I A
7 ? ye Bh ye ae
was) HON | pueyAreyp wy Sa ee eT FUSE Mqstopue A ‘I “WA wozssULI eujorey yNog | UOSRW-Ydjopuey —
o[[fAuosyoer “Da “u0} "eA ‘u0}SuUIxe uojaouLt J ITAseVopAegy | aTTAxouyy ree “Ay ‘uo, Surx *e ao “BA “U0pSUTXa"T ic
~ o°d ; BUYS AA Rem T rv ~ ae eqD x ra v1 A T = “"99'T wo uryseM
ePHol yj purl Arey st A uoyaouLl wyur Say A oossouus | eras, 19M Ayonjyuey 2381S euyjore; "N smqyesy |
8% UAAWAOAd | 6 YAAWAAON | t2 YAAWAAON | LI YWAAWAAON | Ol UAAWAAON | & YAHENAAON | 2 wadgoOLIo 02 YAAOLIO tl YAGOLIO 9 HAAOLIO 6z UaAGWALdas |

 

 

:
.
,

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

1928 Generals

 

BARNET?
Full

       

T HIBADEAU
Half
_ ~ le
ne =
. igsaiehe t —- )
PALMER EBERHARDT FAULKNER HERRON
Asst. Coach Half Ouarter Coach

 

SPROUL FITzPATRICK SELIGMAN SNODGRASS GROooP HAWKINS H. Groop WILLIAMS
End Tackle Guard Center Guard Tackle Center and End
Captain Guard

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Early Games a

Lynchburg College—Sept. 29th.

The first game in the season is always a “set up.”
Object: to test formations, strategy and individual
abilities under most favorable conditions. Subjects
for this year’s experimenting, the scrappy little team
from Lynchburg College journeyed over the moun-
tains.

Here they met two or more W. & L. elevens, includ-
ing one Mr. Thibadeau, Sophomore half-back. Mr.
Thibadeau gave a _ brilliant demonstration, shared
honors with one Mr. Eberhardt, Junior half-back, in
gaining ground at will through, around, under and
over the Lynchburg line to pile up a total score of
fifty-eight points without a threat to the goal line.

Significant was the smooth and efficient workings of
the team machinery. The ability of the lone line to
make openings for offensive thrusts and to solidify on
the defense, the ability of untried backs to side-step,
stiff-arm, wiggle, buck and plunge for long gains.

N. C. State College—Oct. 6th.

No set up, the potent N. C. State eleven, winners of
four 1927 conference victories, scorers of sixty odd
points against Elon College in their maiden effort this
year, touted as one of the strongest teams in the old
North State, journeyed from Raleigh with high hopes.

Scenting a close and thrilling game the largest
crowd to ever witness an early season home game
paid admission, gave thanks for the new Wilson Field
bridge, mixed and mingled during the half, gleefully
yelled and hooted—for it was a thrilling and spectacular
affair.

Captain Fitzpatrick emerged with one tooth missing,
End Leigh Williams on crutches, half Billy Lott,
limping, linesmen Groop and Snodgrass with con-
siderable epidermis missing—but grandly victorious.

First were the breaks—two fumbles by N. C. State,
costing them two touchdowns; an injury to fleet end
Williams as he stepped clear of all opposition with a
neatly blocked pass tucked under his wing—a penalty
for illegal blocking which voided an 85 yard return
for touchdown from kickoff by the shifty Mr. Thiba-
deau—costing the Generals two touchdowns.

In order of happening; Gene White drove and
plunged for a touchdown; Billy Lott ran for another
to end the first quarter; N. C. State ran and passed
‘rilliantly to cross goal during the second—ending the
halt 13-6.

To open the second half, end Williams stepped for-
ward to grab a N. C. pass as it left the fingers of the
thrower and outrun the field for a touchdown, to
recover a N. C. State fumble and again outdistance
the foe, to again grab a pass at its inception, take two

    
      
   
     
   
  
 
  
  

steps in a clear field and fall with a badly sprained +
ankle and retire from the game. From that point —
Thibadeau, White and Eberhardt drove the ball to —
goal. On the next kickoff Thibadeau stepped eighty-
five yards through massed opposition only to be re- @
called to the forty-yard line on a penalty. From that a
point a series of runs and bucks scored the final coun- _
ter. Score 38-6. ;

Significant was the defense work of Eberhardt, 3
Fitzpatrick, the Groops, Hawkins and Snodgrass; the 2 |
brilliant offensive interference by Faulkner and White;
the continued ground gaining proficiency of balitoters
Thibadeau, Lott, Eberhardt and White; the numerous _
and unaccountable penalties levied against both teams; | z
the alertness of the team in general and the fast, —
flashy brilliance of Leigh Williams at end; significant
were the losses in exchange of punts, the bewilder-
ment of the Generals at the visitors’ overhead attack,
the opposition gains around left end. é

U. of Ky., Oct. 13.

Ends Williams and Towill were crippled. Half —
“Billy” Lott and quarter Gene White made the trip _
tho incapacitated by injuries. Thus handicapped the
Generals faced the powerful Wildcat machine at Lex- 3
ington, Ky. ‘yi

Fumbles and inability to handle punts placed Wash-
ington and Lee on the defensive deep in her own terri-
tory during the entire first half. Invincible, the line
held gallantly on the ten yard line, the five yard line,
one yard from goal. Brilliant was the defensive work
of guard Groop, center Snodgrass, tackle Captain
Fitzpatrick and end Cocke. :

A fumble paved the way for a Wildcat score early
in the second half through the battered line. A bril-
liant return at kickoff by Eberhardt, a twenty-five yard
end run by Thibadeau and plunges by Barnett and
Eberhardt brought the ball deep into Kentucky terri-
tory where it remained during the rest of the half.
Kentucky punts relieved Kentucky rooters. Returns
by Eberhardt, Thibadeau and White (substituting for
Barnett) brought it to threaten, to be fumbled, to be
lost on downs. Unable to penetrate near goal the Gen-
erals resorted to a failing passing attack late in the
fourth quarter. The game ended; Kentucky, 6—W.
& L., 0.

Cheering:

For years unsatisfactory, at times humiliating, mass
cheering and yelling at athletic contests is improving.
Ene: getically directed by three cheer leaders in uni-
2on, volume and unified response are better. Fresh-
men are being taught, new yells have been evolved.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Pig Skin Bred Activity

At Charleston, W.
Pi ae

Tickets in W. & L. section can be had in advance
upon remittance of $2.00 each with return envelope
to Brown Truslow, Box 1210, or J. Kay Thomas,
Box 1662, Charleston, W. Va. Alumni Headquarters,
Holly Hotel. Entertainment: dance after the game.
Prospects: W. Va. not quite up to usual power—W.
& L. a trifle better than last year. A closer game,
odds still with the mountaineers.

Va., Oct. 20, Laidley Field, 2:30

At Knoxville, Tenn., Oct. 27, U. of Tenn. stadium,
2:30 P. M.

Tickets: make reservations through J. E. Dooley,
1501 General Building, Knoxville, Tenn., with remit-
tance of $2.50 and return envelope. Alumni head-
quarters, Hotel Farragut. Entertainment: not yet
specified. Prospects: unpredictable—Tennessee _ re-
puted stronger.

At Charlottesville, Va., Nov. 3, Lambeth Field, 2:00
P. M.

Tickets: In advance from Mer. R. A. Smith, W.
& L., Lexington, Va., upon remittance of $2.00 each
with stamped and addressed return envelope—should
be sent before Oct. 31. Alumni headquarters, Monti-
cello Hotel. Entertainment: none. Prospects: teams
evenly matched.

At Princeton, N. J., Nov. 10, Princeton Stadium, 2 :00
P. M.

Tickets: At W. & L. section gate, $2.00 each.
Alumni headquarters, none. Entertainment: annual
alumni Manhattan Alumni Association Banquet La-
Fayette Hotel, New York City, Friday, Nov. 9th,
7:00 P. M. Plate reservations through Karl W. Bibb,
149 Broadway, New York City, upon remittance of
$3.75 each. Always a gala and worth while occasion.
Prospects: a good showing in defeat against a su-
perior team.

At Lexington, Va.. HOMECOMING, Nov. 17, Wil-
son Field, 2:30 P. M.

Tickets: upon remittance of $2.00 each with return
envelope to Grad. Mgr. R. A. Smith, W. & L., Lex-
ington, Va. Headquarters, W. & L. Alumni Build-
ing. Entertainment: buffet luncheon given by the
University at the Alumni Building; a student alumni
assembly to be addressed by a prominent alumnus;
the appearance of the All-Time W. & L. team
(alumni) in uniform on the field between halves;
banquet at the dining hall for alumni and their fami-
lies, Saturday evening, at 7:00 P. M. with a special
entertainment program, plates reserved upon remit-
tance of $2.00 each to Alumni Secretary, V. E. Kemp,
Drawer 897, Lexington; seating capacity limited; res-
ervations should be made as far in advance as pos-
sible; a student-alumni informal dance, Doremus
gymnasium, Saturday evening. Prospects: evenly
matched play for Virginia championship.

At Washington, D. C., Nov. 24, American League
Park, 2:00 P. M.

Tickets: at gate or from H. C. Byrd, U. of Md.,
Grad. Mngr. College Park, Md., upon remittance of
$2.00 each with return envelope. Alumni _§head-
quarters, not announced. Entertainment, not an-
nounced. Prospects: a close game with odds on W.
& L. to win.

At Jacksonville, Fla., Thanksgiving, Nov. 29, Munic-
ipal Stadium 2:30 P. M.

Tickets: upon remittance of $2.50 each to Fred
Valz, °10, Atlantic Bank Bldg., Jacksonville, Fia.,
with return envelope enclosed. Alumni headquarters,
Carling Hotel. Entertainment: banquet after the
game; make reservations for plates with Fred Valz,
as above. Dance for the team during the evening.
The hospitality of the Jacksonville Alumni Assn. 1s
famed. Prospects: the pronounced difference in cli-
mate mitigates against the success of any northern
team playing the “Gators” in their own territory.

 

WeE Wit Hit Tuat Line Ricut HArp

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ALUMNI
MEDALS:

Preparedness was only a_ political issue. Then
came war. War meant sudden, swift, efficient or-
ganization, mobilization, conservation. Directing the
war machinery under President Woodrow Wilson was
Newton D. Baker, 94. Unembarrassed but harrassed
by partisan criticism War Secretary Baker did the job.
Results are irrefutable facts. Irrefutable facts are
slow of discernment even in the softening afterglow
of partisan politics. On Sept. 15, 1928, Newton D.
Baker was awarded the Distinguished Service Medal
by a grateful government.

 

Early on the morning of Aug. 7, 1918, near Bazo-
ches, France, Lieut. Henry Fletcher Martin, 15,
was ordered to cross the Vesle River under heavy ma-
chine gun and artillery fire. There was no footbridge.
Lieut. Martin leaped in, swam across with ropes
stretching behind, improvised a pontoon structure.
Betimes he rescued two comrades from drowning
while enemy fire was being played upon them. Two
days later he placed himself at the head of the most
exposed unit and led it forward in a determined at-
tack on Bazoches. Such bravery could not go un-
scathed. On the 12th of the following October a ma-
chine gun bullet crashed through his right arm com-
pletely disabling that limb. Retirement followed in
March.

On Sept. 1, 1928, representing the United States
Army, Major W. R. Wheeler of Jacksonville, Fila.,
conferred upon Capt. Henry Fletcher Martin, ’15, the
Distinguished Service Cross in recognition of the ex-
traordinary heroism and bravery under fire of ten
years ago, as outlined above.

Capt. Martin was born in Greencastle, Pa.; was
raised in Jacksonville, Fla.; attended Davidson Col-
lege and Princeton; entered the W. & L. Law School;
is married, has three children; now resides at Jack-
sonville, Fla.

FLYING VISIT:

One of the eight vice-presidents of the National
Park Bank of New York City, Mr. Arthur W. Mc-
Cain, °14, formerly of Jonesboro, Ark., paid a brief
visit to his home town in September. He made a
flying business trip, having stopped in St. Louis,
‘Memphis and Jonesboro. While in Jonesboro, he
had supper with Mr. and Mrs. Howard C. Stuck,
ha: |

Arthur came from South America in July to re-
port with his recent connection in New Yory City.
He is in charge of the foreign department of the
National Park Bank and his connections in South
America have well fitted him for his present posi-

tion. He will be sent shortly on missions to Mex. z
ico, Canada and Europe. His rise to his present wa
position has been phenomenal.

sponsibility that would be the life-time ambition of as
many and his record is an enviable one, ;
Graduating from the Jonesboro High School in

1911, Mr. McCain attended Washington and Leak

where he finished in 1914. He took an active part

in student activities and won letters in basketball
and tennis and wears a Phi Beta Kappa Key. His 4

first banking experience was with the Bank of
Jonesboro and from there he went to the National
City Bank of New York to prepare for work in
South America Branches. He was connected with
the National Bank of Boston at the time of being
offered his present New York connection.

Mr. McCain and his wife and _ little daughter
make their home at Scarsdale, New York, twenty
miles out of N. Y. City.

PROFESSORIAL POLITICOES:

Faculty members, administrative officers and the
hired help avoided public announcement of presi-
dential preferences; preferred not to come out for
or against, Privately they expressed varying views,
prepared to vote for or against. In contrast was the
1924 presidential campaign, enthusiastically, unani-
mously, unequivocally for John W. Davis, ’92-’95.

RT. REV. WILLIAM G. McDOWELL, ’02:

Bishop McDowell has been closely allied with
Washington and Lee from his earliest infancy, his
family having lived in Lexington, where he received
his preparatory training for the University.

He graduated from Washington and Lee in 1902
with the A.B. degree, and taught in St. James’
Preparatory School, Washington County, Maryland,
from 1903 to 1906. In 1906 he entered the Episco-
pal Theological Seminary at Alexandria, graduated,
and was ordained to the Episcopal Ministry in 1909;
served missionary field in Greenville Co., Va.; Ree-
tor Emmanuel Church, Staunton, Va.; Chaplain,
United States Army 1918-19. He was made Bishop-
Coadjutor of the Episcopal Diocese of Alabama in
1922.

Bishop McDowell has received honorary degrees
from his Alma Mater, Virginia Theological Sem-
inary and the University of the South, and was
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa at Washington and
Lee on April 12, 1928.

In 1915 Bishop McDowell was married to Miss
Mary Meade Phelps. They have five sons, William,
Richard, Robert, John, and Alan.

He is less than =
thirty-five years of age and has a_ position of re- a

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

CARRINGTON C. TUTWILER, ’96:

It is generally recognized that the record of Wash-
ington and Lee alumni in public leadership during
the World War can be equalled by that of few in-
stitutions. Considerably less publicity has been given
to the vital contribution toward final victory that
was made by its alumni who were leaders in indus-
try. Among these the part played by Carrington c.
Tutwiler, "96, is noteworthy. As president and or-
ganizer of the Coopers Creek Chemical Company,
of Philadelphia, he led this company in its active
work in developing and manufacturing explosives
for the French and British armies as well as for the
United States forces. Mr. Tutwiler and those asso-
ciated with him furnished a large share of the sci-
entific, technical and expert knowledge necessary for
directing and regulating war manufactures. The
Coopers Creek Chemical Company, typically an
American organization, was founded in 1915 as a
result of the demand for those products formerly
imported from Germany; and since the war it has
contributed largely toward the advance of the coal
tar and by-products industry in civil life.

Carrington Cabell Tutwiler was born in Lexing-
ton, Virginia, 15 November, 1874, descended from
the Tutwiler family that has lived in Virginia since
its emigration from Switzerland in 1753. He was
graduated from Washington and Lee in 1896 with
a B.A. degree and took his M.S. the following year
at Virginia Polytechnic Institute.

From 1898 to 1913 he served as Chief Chemist
of U. G. I. In addition to the Coopers Creek
Chemical Company he is president of the Chemical
Service Laboratories and the General By-Products
Company, all of which he organized. He is the
patentee of several important chemical apparatus. He

19

 

Cc. C. Turwtrer, 96
Industrial Pioneer

has been since 1924 Vice-President of the Franklin
Institute of Philadelphia, is Chairman of the Bartol
Research Foundation, and Past Vice-President of
the American Gas Association. He holds member-
ship in the following organizations: American
Chemical Society, Society of Chemical Industry,
Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity, Phi Beta Kappa,
Chemists’ Club of New York, University Club,
Philadelphia Cricket Club, and Norristown Club.
He is a Democrat and a Presbyterian.

Mr. Tutwiler married Miss Rebe Gordon Glas-
gow, of Richmond, Virginia, and they have one
son, Carrington Cabell, Jr. Their home is at “Woods
End”, 9000 Crefeld Street, Chestnut Hill, Pennsyl-

vania.

 

 

DR. DENNY:

Enthusing over the University of Alabama, marvel-
ing at its progress, an editorial writer for the Colum-
bus, Georgia, Enquirer-Sun sought the explanation ;
found it in the person of President George H. Denny;
said :

“George H. Denny! There you have it in three
short words (and one of those words just an initial )
much of the explanation, a very considerable part of
the secret, of why and how the University of Ala-
bama has grown and developed and prospered so in
the last fifteen years. This is a fact well known to
all familiar with the University of Alabama affairs
with the single exception of Dr. Denny; he himself
stubbornly refuses to admit it.

“Dr. Denny is a native of Virginia, and went to

Alabama from Washington and Lee 17 years ago.
He knows how to inspire legislative committees and
get money for the University; he knows how to spend
the money wisely and effectively after he gets it; he
is a great administrator; he has vision as an educator ;
he has human qualities, plus; he has personal magnet-
ism, and he is beloved by the University students.
He takes a genuine interest in the students and their
affairs. His memory of faces and names is remark-
able; and they say that he can call by name thousands
of students and alumni. He is fond of sports, is an
enthusiastic fan, and was the happiest man in the
world, perhaps, on a certain day in the famed Cali-
fornia Bowl.”

This editorial preceded by several weeks the elec-
tion of Dr. Denny to the presidency of Washington
and Lee.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

JUDGE JOSEPH A. GLASGOW, ’02, OPENED
COURT:

The circuit court of Rockbridge County for the
September term was convened in the courthouse in
Lexington the first Monday at 10 o'clock, Judge Jo-
seph A. Glasgow presiding. It was the first appear-
ance of Judge Glasgow on the bench, he having in
June been appointed by the Governor to succeed
Judge Henry W. Holt, ’88, resigned.

A full bar and a number of citizens from county
and town were present as Judge Glasgow, standing
erect at the Judge’s seat, gave a signal to the sheriff
standing below him inside the bar, and the latter re-
peated the ancient and always interesting announce-
ment of the judge being in place in court and pre-
pared to try all causes present. The announcement
is worthy of being repeated here.

“O yez! O yez! Silence is now commanded in
court under penalty of fine or imprisonment while
the Honorable Judge Joseph A. Glasgow of the
Rockbridge circuit court is now sitting. Those who
have pleas to enter or causes to present, bring them
forward and they shall be heard. God save the
commonwealth.”

This ancient sheriff’s cry having formally opened
the court, Judge Glasgow’s face broadened into a
smile as he briefly addressed the gathering. Said
he: “So full have been my associations with Rock-
bridge that I am enjoying the pleasant sensation
now of feeling that I am coming back home.” Two
of the older members of the bar were quickly on
their feet and in equally brief and cordial words wel-
comed Judge Glasgow back home. They were Mr.
Hugh A. White and Mr. Frank Moore, ’96. Mr.
White added to this expression of greeting the wish
that if the judge made any mistakes they would be
very small ones. For this Judge Glasgow thanked
him with a smile.

RAYON:

Rayon, silk-like product of fiberous materials,
looms in importance to industrializing Virginia. To
Covington, Va., came the Industrial Rayon Corpora-
tion for the erection of a six million dollar manu-
facturing plant. :

Presiding at a banquet in celebration of ground
breaking for construction, R. C. Stokes, ’05, president
of the Covington Chamber of Commerce, outstanding
lawyer, predicted the rapid growth and prosperous
industrial expansion of his home town, showed him-
self to be a witty, sparkling and entertaining toast-
master. Speaking also on this occasion was B. C.
Moomaw, Jr., ‘10, secretary-manager of the Coving-
ton Chamber, orchardist, business promoter.

INLAND WATERWAYS: W. D. A. Anderson, ’Q2.

Transferred from Ft. Humphreys, Va., to special
duty at Mobile, Ala., Lieut-Colonel W. D, A. Ander-
son, 02, able army engineer, author, son of Major
Wm. A. Anderson, ’61, militant soldier of other years,
lawyer, trustee of Washington and Lee, spoke on in-
land waterway development at Tuscaloosa, Ala.,
which not only enfolds the University of Alabama,
but is also situated upon the banks of the navigable
Warrior River.

Before the Tuscaloosa Chamber of Commerce and
Pilot Club Colonel Anderson pointed out that when
the country was being settled a century ago the in-
land waterways were the best means of transporta-
tion and settlements were first established along
navigable streams.

“Many of these towns became important cities of
the country,” he continued, “and when railroads were
first built they were laid out to pass through these
cities, which thus became also railroad centers and
points of trans-shipment from water to rail. The
further rail development through the country re-
sulted in the building up of large rail centers not lo-
cated on waterways, and finally the extension of feeder
and branch railroad lines brought rail transportation
into close competition with the packet boats. Finally
the development of dependable and fast service on
the part of the railroads, at the same time that water
transportation methods were at a standstill, resulted
in the almost complete disappearance of water trans-
portation in this country.

“It now appears that we are about to enter into a
third transportation era in which water transportation
on inland streams will again develop. Since the
World War there has been practically no extension
of railroad systems, except into territory which is
rapidly developing, and even these developments have
been small compared with the great growth of the
railroad during the half century preceding the war.”

DORSEY AND MATTOX, EX -ATHLETES,
HELP COACH FRESHMEN:

“Monk” Mattox, ’23, and “Bill” Dorsey, senior in
the law school, are aiding Eddie Parks Davis in
coaching the Little Generals.

“Monk” was captain of the 1922 Generals and
played for four years. While here he also played
baseball and basketball. It was his brother who
kicked a goal in the last few minutes of play in the
Georgia Tech game of 1919, thereby winning the
game.

Bill Dorsey has been in school here four years
and is therefore ineligible this year. With the as-
sistance of these men, Eddie expects to rapidly whip
the Little Generals into shape.

 

=: oe ee

eh ie

i Fae

* al Lek ri all i A ii lla hai it easy ee ei

4 «io ws

op
a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Home-Coming, November 17th

The annual home football game (alternating with
Vv. P. I. and the U. of Va. each year) has been defi-
nitely set as the official Home-Coming Day for alumni,
‘instead of Commencement—an unsuccessful alumni
reunion period heretofore.

This year on November 17 the Washington and Lee
eleven will meet the strong V. P. I. team on Wilson
Field. During the day alumni will be entertained and
reunited as follows:

10:00 A. M. ‘The annual meeting of the Alumni
Association, Inc., in the Alumni Building.

11:30 A. M.  Student-alumni assembly at the
Doremus Gymnasium—program to be announced
later. :

1 P. M. Buffet alumni luncheon given by the Uni-
versity to alumni, their families and friends.

2:30 P. M. V. P. L-W. & L. game at Wilson
Field. ‘Tickets to be had upon remittance of $2.00
each to Grad. Mgr. R. A. Smith, W. & L. U., Lex-
ington, with stamped and addressed return envelope.

6:30 P. M. Informal alumni supper, W. & L. Din-
ing Hall. Plates $2.00 each. Musical and entertain-
ment program for alumni, their wives and friends.
Advance reservations upon remittance to Alumni Sec-
retary V. E. Kemp, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

9:30 P. M. Student-alumni informal dance at the
Doremus Gymnasium.

Led by the student band there will be an alumni
parade on Wilson Field during the half at the game.

Accommodations in the hotels, rooming houses and
private homes will be arranged in advance upon noti-
fication to Alumni Secretary V. E. Kemp. State defi-
nite date of arrival and number to be accommodated.

A new feature in this year’s entertainment will be
the informal alumni supper. A special entertainment
program is being arranged for this occasion. Since
seating capacity of the Dining Hall is limited, alumni
wishing to secure plates should make their reservations
as early as possible.

Home-Coming Day is Alumni Day. All the facili-

 

ties of the town and campus will be devoted to alumni
entertainment. Alumni are invited to come two or
three days in advance in order to visit old Lexington
friends, greet former professors, reunite with old
classmates.

Excellent roads now lead into Lexington from
every direction for return by automobile. A con-
venient bus line service operates from Lynchburg,
Staunton, Roanoke and Buena Vista to convey train
passengers from those points.

Every alumnus and former student of Washington
and Lee is cordially invited to return and fully partic-
ipate in the Home-Coming Program.

Meetings:

Most active among alumni associations is the New
York City alumni chapter; reason: D. R. Snively, ’22,
James A. Lee, °17, “Edge”? Vinson, ’23, Wm. Farrar,
15, Thornton Allen, 712, W. D. Conrad, ’03, Dr. Wm.
E. Dold, ’76, Earl W. Bibb, ’25, and other active, en-
thusiastic, capable alumni.

A feature of the Manhattan Alumni Association,
as the organization is known, is the monthly alumni
luncheons, at which the busy W. & L. metropolites
forgather for an hour’s pleasant association on the
third Wednesday of each month, at 12:30 P. M. Two
luncheons have been held this fall—the first was on
Friday, Sept. 21, at the Planters Restaurant, 124
Greenwich Street; the other at the Fraternity Clubs,
38th St. and Madison Avenue, Wednesday, Oct. 17.

Outstanding feature is the annual meeting of the
association held on the evening preceding the annual
W. & L.-Princeton football game. This year their
football dinner will be held at the Lafayette Hotel,
Friday evening, Nov. 9th. Visiting alumni are
cordially invited. Plates should be reserved in ad-
vance through James A. Lee, 463 West Street, New
York City. Notable for an excellent program, warm
fellowship and a rousing good time, the annual formal
dinner is wel! worth attending.

hc
oe

a

not
me

na mete oe art Soe pa
Oke, ere:
el Pa ts ,
ee Pe

ee
- vila “™ he Pied hao

carte

J . ~ ry

eth 3, !
‘ ane at —_
. 3

* Ce ast A eae,

“_anp WE Wi. Rout V. P. I. on THE Sop”

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Visitors:

Conveniently located at the campus entrance, the
Alumni office and headquarters is always open to call-
ers.

Visiting Lexington and calling at the Alumni office
during late summer and early fall were F. M. Hudson,
"96, lawyer of Miami, Fla., who with his family spent
his vacation in Lexington; P. V. Littlejohn, ’00, of
Roanoke; Lieut-Col. W. D. A. Anderson, ’02, visit-
ing his paternal home before going to his new post
at Mobile, Ala.; T. C. Bowling, 96, of Charles Town,
W. Va., and W. J. L. Patton, 714, C. P. A. of Rich-
mond, Va., here on business; Dr. W. S. Currell, ’78,
one time professor of English, now dean of the Grad-
uate School at the U. of S. C.; John J. Hudak, ’23,
of Passaic, N. J.; Louis S. Epes, ‘08, of the State
Corporation Commission, Richmond, Va.

Also stopping to renew old connections were Sors-
by Jemison, ’09, active and energetic business man of
Birmingham, Ala., who viewed the new Wilson Field
bridge with mixed feelings, watched the 1928 Generals
take lessons from Coach Pat Herron on Wilson Field,
chatted with the Alumni Secretary; Vines E. Turn-
bull, "90, of Rutherford, N. J., who saw the W. & L.
Freshmen play against “Cy” Young’s William and
Mary Freshmen; Borden H. Burr, 94, moving spirit
in the U. of Alabama alumni organization.

90 CENTS A DAY:

Commenting upon the appointment by President
Coolidge of Everett M. Greer, ’15, of Newport, Tenn.,
as U. S. District Attorney, a Knoxville, Tenn., news-
paper said on Aug. 28, 1928:

“Working on a railroad for 90 cents a day, Everett
Greer, new U. S. district attorney, made enough
money to keep himself in college.

“When he was 17 he entered Carson-Newman at
Jefferson City. The following summer funds ran low,
so he took the 90 cents a day job as a railroad laborer
to send himself back to school.

“In 1914 he graduated from the law department of
Washington and Lee University. He passed the bar
examination several months before his graduation.
In 1915 he was a member of the law firm of Cate &
Greer, which later became Hooper & Greer. ‘The lat-
ter firm continued until Gov. Hooper became chancel-
lor in 1920.

“In 1917 he received a commission in the field artil-
lery in the second officer’s training camp, and later
was transferred to aviation, in which ‘service he re-
ceived a commission. He spent one vear overseas
after he had served two years in the army during the
World War. When he returned to Newport he re-
sumed the practice of law. In 1920 he formed a law
partnership with his brother, Elmer C. Greer, which

was in effect when he was named as district attorney, a

“In addition to a degree from Washington and) a
Lee, Gen. Greer has the distinction of holding a cer-
tificate for special work done on 16 legal subjects at
the Inns of Court, the oldest law school in the world,
in London, England, having taken also work in evi-
dence at the University of London.

“According to the records of Cocke county, sub-
mitted in a letter of indorsement to the Attorney-
General by the state’s attorney, out of 23 homicide cases
in which Mr. Greer participated, he was successfyl
before a jury in 20 cases.

“In addition to practicing law, Mr. Greer has been
interested in orchards for three years, his orchard on

a farm recently purchased near Newport containing

2,000 peach and apple trees. On this farm stands an
inn building 150 years old, where Andrew Jackson,

James K. Polk and Andrew Johnson stopped for —

rest and refreshments.

“Mrs. Greer was formerly Miss Elizabeth Bricket,
of Fountain City. Their children are Ben Mac, Dan
Blake, Wanda and Jack, the last named being three
years old, and may be the mascot of his father’s of-
fice, the two spending much of their time together,

“Gen. Greer is a Methodist, Mason, member of
the Junior Order and of the American Legion.”

EDGAR SYDENSTRICKER, M.A. ’02:

Edgar Sydenstricker, M.A., ’02, recently was
elected by the trustees of the Milbank Memorial
Fund, of New York City, as the director of the new
Institute of Research which has just been estab-
lished by that foundation, with the title “Director
of Research, Milbank Memorial Fund.’ For the
past two or more years he has been statistical con-
sultant to the fund. ‘The new institution will de-
velop inquiries in social and biological fields at its
headquarters in New York City, and at various
universities and other suitable centers, and already
has the nucleus of a staff and advisory boards on
specific lines of study.

Mr. Sydenstricker will continue to be on the re-
search staff of the United States Public Health
Service where he has been chief, statistician for over
twelve years, but will be on a part time basis in
order to permit him to develop his new work. ‘The
arrangement also permits him to resume his con-
nection as consultant in vital statistics to the League
of Nations and to be in Geneva for a month or

more each year.
———e—_____

MR. and MRS. HERBERT R. PRESTON, ’84,
of Baltimore, Md., and their two children were re-
cent guests in Lexington at the home of Mrs. William
Dickinson.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

IN POLITICS:

In student body elections, fraternity and non-fra-
ternity alignments are sought and manipulated, cam-
paign speeches made, literature handed out. With
such training in the rudiments of practical politics
students become adept; as alumni they expertly take
part in local, state and national affairs.

Presidential years bring about much political ac-
tivity. Aligned with the campaign in behalf of Presi-
dential candidate John W. Davis, ’92, 95, they were
effectively active in 1924. With more division this
year they are again active—mostly for or against the
Democratic candidate and his views.

Bob Dow, ’12, took the lead in personal campaigns
at the State Democratic convention, Sept. 5th, when
he was nominated as his party’s candidate for Gov-
ernor of the State of New Mexico. He will oppose
the Republican incumbent, famed for his twenty
minute speeches.

Heralded as the cowboy candidate, depicted in cow-
boy attire in the act of roping a calf for branding,
the Democratic press of the state said: “There is not
a town or hamlet in New Mexico where ‘Bob’ Dow
is not known and loved.”

Lawyer, ranch operator, business man, Bob Dow
has served for the past term as Attorney General of
New Mexico. He graduated in Law from W. & L.
in 1912. His brother, Hiram M. Dow, ’07, lawyer
and progressive business man of Roswell, was New
Mexico’s choice to fill a vacancy on the inter-state
Commerce Commission last year.

Julius I. Witz, 97, banker and manufacturer
of Staunton, Va., was elected president of the City
Council of Staunton—will fill the honorary office of
Mayor.

R. Hugh Jarvis, °*13, of Morgantown, West Va.,
acted as secretary of the dry Democrats (Hoover-
crats) meeting at Memphis, Tenn., Sept. 14. “Gov-
ernor Smith has conspicuously bolted the Houston
Democratic platform—’” recorded this convention.

J. Murray Hooker, °96, chairman of the  Vir-
ginia Democratic Committee, chairman of the State
Corporation, warned Virginia voters against prema-
ture commitments, stumped the state in behalf of the
candidacy of Governor A. E. Smith, as did C. H.
Morrissett, °15, Louis S. Epes, ‘08, and James H.
Price, ’09.

 

Robert L. Owen, ’78, Democrat, long time United
States Senator from Oklahoma, co-author of the Fed-
eral Reserve Act, retired, stated: “Herbert Hoover,

 

 

“Bos” Dow, 12
For Governor of New Mexico

in my opinion, is the best qualified man ever pre-
sented by any party in America for the presidency
during my lifetime; was attacked directly by Gov-
ernor Smith in a reply through the press, indirectly
in an Oklahoma City address. Bestirred, Senator
Owen became an active supporter of candidate Hoover,
was in demand for anti-Smith speeches.

Honorable Harry St. George Tucker, ’77, United
States Congressman from the Tenth Virginia District,
venerable and beloved alumnus, veteran campaigner,
pre-eminent constitutional lawyer, pronounced Gov-
ernor Smith’s acceptance speech “a bugle blast from
a real leader of the U. S.—” stumped the state in be-
half of the Democratic candidate.

Henry W. Anderson, 98, of Richmond, Va., Re-
publican leader, mentioned for the vice-Presidency at
the Kansas City convention, able lawyer, honorary
Phi Beta Kappa and LL.D. from Washington and Lee,
spoke over the radio, co-operated with the anti-Smith
forces in Virginia, predicted the old Dominion, con-
ceded doubtful, would turn to the Republican candi-
date, would give him her electoral votes.

Wilbur C. Hall, ’14, of Leesburg, Va., lawyer, orig-
inator of the Burks Memorial Fund, rapidly rising
power in State politics, eloquent speaker, bore the
brunt of pro-Smith campaigning throughout the State,
rallied voters, talked of intolerance and bigots, of party
regularity and duty, scored so-called “political par-
sons,” lauded the Democratic standard bearer and his
supporting coterie.

Addison Hogue, retired W. & L. professor of
Greek, scholar, devout Protestant, deep thinker,

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

openly wrote from seclusion in Washington to the
Charlotte, N. C. Observer on the religious “issue’’;
quoted the Catholic manua! of Christian doctrine;

from a speech of New York Mayor Jimmy Walker;

scored the intolerance of Democratic enlightenment
for the badgered and belittled “bigots”; brought forth
much editorial comment from the Virginia and North
Carolina press.

 

Dr. John H. Latane, honorary alumnus, one-time
W. & L. professor of History, now Dean of Johns
Hopkins University, severe critic of the Coolidge Latin-
American policy, was verbally set upon by leaders of
the Methodist Episcopal Church. Reason: a_ state-
ment attributed to Dr. Latane: “—speaking as a his-
torian, I say very seriously that it is my opinion that
the Society of Jesus, in the palmiest day of its history,
never held a nation in so firm a grasp as the ‘political
parsons’ of certain Protestant denominations,” and
also for a reputed ambition, “—to turn anarchist and
throw a bomb” into the cellar of the Methodist Build-
ing at Washington. No bomb thrower, no anarchist,
no “rabblerouser’’ Dr. Latane survived the verbal ex-
change.

 

Other alumni here and there participated in the ex-
citing campaign, upheld the campus reputation as pro-
ductive political training ground.

 

RESOLUTION:

At a meeting of the Board of Trustees of Wash-
ington and Lee University, held October 11th, 1928,
Dr. Henry Louis Smith, President of the Univer-
sity, tendered his resignation as President.

On motion, the following resolution was adopted:

“1. That the Board regretfully accepts the resig-
nation of Dr. Henry Louis Smith as President of
the University, to take effect after the end of the
present scholastic year on July 1, 1929, or as
soon thereafter as his successor can take up the
duties of the office. -

“2. That Dr. Smith’s present salary of $7500.00 be
continued until December 31, 1929, and at the
end of that period, in accordance with a resolu-
tion adopted June 4, 1928, his retiring allow-
ance is to be one-half of his present salary less
the amount he will receive from the Teachers
Insurance and Annuity Association.

“3. That the Rector appoint a committee of three to
draw up a minute recording the Board’s sincere
appreciation of the long, eminent, faithful and
successful services rendered to the University by
Dr. Smith. The following committee was ap-
pointed: Mr. J. R. Caskie, Mr. William A. An-
derson, and Dr. Wm. McC. White.”

my time.

LETTERS

September 14, 1928, = aS

My dear Mr. Kemp: a
When I received the last copy of the MAGazing, i
laid aside the subscription blank with the intention of
filling it out promptly and returning it, but I have — 3
been so busy recently trying to keep up with the Ra- _
dio Commission that I have simply neglected to do it 7
heretofore. I have filled out the blank and am re _
turning it herewith with my check for $4.00. a
I find the ALUMNI MaGazIneE very interesting jn-
deed, and of course I want to continue to receive it. —
By the way, James Somerville, Jr., ’15, has re- Re
cently returned from London, where he was Assist- ‘a 4
ant Commercial Attaché of the United States Depart- 3
ment of Commerce, and is now Chief of the Russian —
Division of the Bureau of Foreign and Domest a
Commerce of the Department of Commerce. ”
A month or two ago I drove through Lexington on f
my way from Washington to North Carolina, but was _
in a great hurry and did not have time to stop to see _
you. I hope I will have better luck next time. a

    

Yours very truly,
F. P. Gururete, ’11,

Columbia, S. C.,
August 24, 1928.
My dear Mr. Kemp:

I am enclosing a check for $4.00 for two years’
subscription to the Washington and Lee ALUMNI
MacGazinré. I was very much pleased with the Au- —
gust issue. z

I regret so much that you were absent from Lex-
ington when I paid a visit to the old town recently.
I had a very pleasant chat with Miss Mary Barclay.
The new Alumni Headquarters are most attractive.

Cordially yours,
W. S. Currewy, ’78.

pee +f

September 24, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

I am under the impression that the subscription to
the ALUMNI MaGAZINE is about due, and am enclos-
ing my check for $2.50. If I am in error in any re-
spect, please advise.

I can’t afford to miss any copy of the MacaziNe
though its contents in the main are long subsequent to
I love my Alma Mater and feel a great in-
terest in all movements and wish her continued suc-
cess and a blessing to all those who are there regis-
tered.

With personal regards to you, I am respectfully,

F. M. Cocxrett, ’78.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

Dear Mr. Kemp:

[ hope you are going to forgive me for not having
replied promptly to your very kind letter of July 23
last year, requesting me to send you some word of
greeting.

Unfortunately, just at the time your letter came
and for several months thereafter I was rather buried
under an accumulation of office work and had more
or less completely to neglect my personal correspond-
ence. It is only just now, as I am clearing up things
preparatory to returning to Washington, that | am at-
tempting to reinstate myself in the good graces of my
friends.

Incidentally, I am returning to take charge of the
Russian section of our department, and expect to be
in Washington for probably the next two or three
years anyway. So I certainly hope you will be able
to find time, when you have occasion to visit Wash-
ington, to drop in at the department.

I have certainly enjoyed reading every word in the
ALUMNI MacGazINE during the past year—which

 

seems to grow with interest every issue—and through
it I have been able to keep in touch with you in spirit
if not by letter.

While, like everybody else, I was sorry that the
football season last year did not end in a blaze of
glory, I was glad that it enabled me to win a wager of
a good lunch on the Maryland game. One of the
trade commissioners here, Dr. F. E. Lee, was for five
years Dean of the University of Maryland, and, fol-
lowing the news of the result of the W. & L.-Mary-
land game, the good doctor was my host at a most ex-
cellent lunch.

One enjoyable feature of my return to Washington
will be the opportunity it should provide of seeing
some more W. & L. football games, and especially
that Virginia game. I have yet to see this last-named
fracas and for a good W. & L. man that is almost as
much a sin of omission as the failure of a good Mus-
sulman to make a pilgrimage to Mecca. At any rate,
this is one sin I intend to make amends for at the
earliest possible date. I am also hoping that I shall
have an opportunity before very long to come down
to Lexington, as I have always looked on the old
town as my second home. I am certainly looking
forward to the first opportunity I can find of coming
down from Washington to see you all.

With heartiest greetings to all my friends of 1908-
14 days, and wishing you and your associates contin-
ued success in your efforts to promote Washington
and Lee’s well-being, I am

Sincerely yours,
JAMEs SOMERVILLE, JR., ‘14,
American Trade Commissioner,
London, England.

 

 

 

JAMES SOMERVILLE, JR., “14
Won a Good Lunch

September 11, 1928.
Dear Kemp:

It has been some time since I last had the pleasure
of sending you a check for my continued subscription
to the ALUMNI Macazin_E but here is the little fellow
and I hope to send many more as the years roll by—
or do they float?

I note in your last issue that the Gaynor-Peck ro-
mance was at your attention. Never have I received
so many letters of congratulations since Mr. Hearst
so kindly (?) stuck his enlarged nose into our affair.
Miss Gaynor is swamped with fan mail from all over
the world telling her that if she marries this guy Peck
and not Charlie Farrell that they will send me a large
portion of poison. Be that as it may I am game unto
the last and will die the “Perfect Lover” (C. E. L.
Gill).

Speaking of Carl, won’t you please ask him to write
something either for your MAGAZINE or to me con-
cerning the Troubadours? There are many of us
that are most interested. Tell him that I sold a story
to Cecil deMille not long ago and it may now be seen
at your worst theater.

Give my best to John Graham, C. E. L., Eddie
Parks Davis, Moreland, Lefty Louie,
“Skinny” Williams—and my bootlegger should he

“Boss”

continue to live.

With kindest regards and happiest thoughts and
longing to be with you all in that Southern Paradise
again, | am

For Al Smith,
LypELL PrcK, ’23.

stiheeedeiecnttienidl stabbed
*

DR. HARRY W. PRATT, ’93, of Columbia, S.
C., was a visitor to Lexington during August.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

September 19, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

A short while ago on my vacation I had forwarded
to me a birthday greetings card from your office. I
wish to say that this gave me a great deal of pleasure
and seems to me to be one of the nicest and most
gratifying things that your office could do. Please
accept my sincere thanks.

I am probably about as thoroughly imbued with the
Washington and Lee traditions as any man could be.
I was born in Lexington and lived for ten years at
the “Ole Blue” where as a boy I had the opportunity
of seeing all of the interesting phases of campus life
at that time. I went to the public schools in Lexing-
ton, where for several years my best and most inter-
esting teacher,was Miss Annie Joe White. So excel-
lent was her instruction that I required only one year
of Prep school work before entering Washington and
Lee, which I did in September 1886. I graduated in
1890 with the A.B. degree. Dean Harry Campbell is
now the only member of the Faculty who was there
when I was a student.

I think the above facts will show that I have cer-
tainly had unusual opportunities to learn to know and
to love Washington and Lee.

I have never gotten away from University work,
because after leaving Washington and Lee I came to
Tulane for my graduate work, and since that time
have been engaged in teaching. I am now Professor
of Electrical Engineering and Dean of the College of
Engineering in Tulane University.

Expressing again my very sincere thanks for the
birthday greetings, and with best wishes, I beg to re-
main,

Cordially yours,
DoucLas ANpERSON, 90.

tk * *

September 24, 1928.
Dear Mr. Kemp:

Herewith I hand you my check for $4.00 to cover
subscription to the ALUMNr Macazine for the next
two years. In the past I have derived a great pleas-
ure from reading the MaGazinr, and I am sure the
future issues hold much in store for me.

In case you do not know, I thought I would advise
that Cameron E. Shropshire, ’24, was married a year
ago this September. Also that fortunately or unfor-
tunately I was married in Fort Worth, Texas, on
June 9th to Miss Catherine Terrell. I have moved
back to Brownwood, Texas, where I am now practic-
ing law as usual.

Wishing you much success with the MAGAZINE
this coming year, I am

Yours very truly,
James W. McCartney, ’24.

August 20, 1928.
Dear Kemp:

Eureka! Tur ALUMNI Macazine Extraordinaire
worthy contemporary of Time and Tide
lively, entertaining, interesting, comprehen-

sible . . . packed with news for nosey Grads,

Keep up the good work $2.50 enclosed
worth $25.00. One reading renewed ac-

quaintances recrudesced fond memaries
attempered my temper veneered my

vanity pleased my pride pulled at

my purse strings homesicked me

for Washington and Lee.

No man should be without one! Reaction after

second reading will be forwarded to you, Esteemed

Editor Prexy Chooser Brilliant
Bridger Waffle Worker.

Yours for the Smiths
Determined Democracy.
Tony.

Al and Lefty and

(Orton B. Morver, ’26.)

* *«K *

September 1, 1928,
Dear Mr. Kemp:

My check tells you the sweet story. For fear that
times under the new President—“who’er” it will be—
may not be so prosperous I’m going to assure myself
that I will get the MaGazine for at least two years.

My wife says (yes, I am) send it so it will reach
me in the A. M., because I was up until 2:30 that
night reading the last issue—it was that good.

By the way—a little news. Our good friend Dr.
James L. Howe is to address our local section of the
American Chemical Society on October 3rd. Do you
want our bulletin comments after it is all over?

Please be so good as to say a special “Hello” for
me to Doctors Easter and Wm. Brown.

Best wishes,
Epwarp Lyons, ‘17.

* «KK *

Dear Mr. Kemp:

The summer issue of the ALUMNI MacaziNe has
just reached me and, needless to say, I have en-
joyed it as always. Am enclosing my check for one
year’s subscription.

I received my “J.D.” degree from the University
of Michigan Law School last June and since August
first have been with the law firm of Tolles, Hogsett
and Ginn in Cleveland.

Very truly yours,
Tuos. M. Harman, 725.

———%

MR. and MRS. DAVID LAIRD, ’86, of Jackson-
ville, Fla., were visitors to Lexington during Septem-
ber, at the home of Mr. Frank Moore, ’96,

 

 

-<ae

Re * wigiMle see eee

i pe? os

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DR. DENNY’S ACCEPTANCE

Will he accept? ‘This question was most frequent
after the public announcement of President Smith’s
resignation and the election of Dr. George H. Denny
to succeed him as president of Washington and Lee.

At the University of Alabama Dr. Denny has
achieved an enviable success. Recognition of that
fact was shown by the impressive efforts of the Ala-
bama student body, citizens of Tuscaloosa and the
press of the state to influence his refusal of the
Washington and Lee post.

Materially the University of Alabama has the ad-
vantage. Salaries are higher; funds for building,
equipment and Faculty more plentiful. Yet on the
other hand, as Dr. Denny wrote to the Ring-tum Phi,
“__the ancient spiritual verities do abide.” Dr. Denny
has successfuly spent the whole of his_ professional
life as a promoter of educational institutions. His
specialty is the development of obscure colleges into
strong, widely acclaimed, financially sound institu-
tions.

Also, Dr. Denny has always retained a deep and
abiding love for Washington and Lee. With the
University of Alabama at the peak of its develop-
ment; Washington and Lee no longer obscure and
himself verging upon the afternoon of a useful life,
it would appear that Dr. Denny might consider the
tender of the Washington and Lee Board most fa-
vorably and return to the field of his first success to
build anew along other lines.

In answer to the question Dr. Denny announced
that he would first visit Lexington, discuss matters
with friends here, get a first hand view of the field,
then announce his acceptance or rejection.

leiaiadae tellin tilcnsdiediaicidlacn
>

COMMENT ON ELECTION

Carefully guarded by the Board of Trustees until
officially announced, press dispatches bore the first
news of the resignation of Dr. H. L. Smith and the
election of Dr. George H. Denny as president of
Washington and Lee.

Soon letters of regret and appreciation poured
through the mails from alumni and friends to Dr.
Smith. Alumni leaders throughout the country were
the first to realize that time had called signals for the
passing of a noted, tried and proven servant of Wash-
ington and Lee.

With equal fervor alumni and friends communi-
cated their congratulations, felicitations and importu-
nations to Dr. Denny. He was also the recipient of
many staying appeals from University of Alabama
alumni and friends.

Throughout Virginia the press lauded the work of
President Smith, recalled his many accomplishments,
editorially appraised him as man, educator and far-

27

 

HOME COMING DAY
Saturday, Nov. 17
V... Poi be WO. Oe ke

Eat at the
SUBWAY KITCHEN, INC.

 

Face & Common

BRICK

Hollow Building

TERE

and

OTHER CLAY PRODUCTS

LOCHER *& ‘COy ane

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

 

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

seeing progressive pioneer—as “—twenty—thirty and
even fifty years from now colleges and universities
throughout the country will come to adopt his ideas.”
Also the return of Dr. Denny to the state was lauded.

It appeared that the election of Dr. Denny was a
most popular move by the Board, that his return is
considered most advantageous for the University,
that the best possible choice had been made.

TO JUDICIAL COUNCIL:

Wilbur C. Hall, ’14, of Leesburg, Va., has been
appointed as a member of the judicial council of
Virginia by Robert R. Prentiss, president of the Su-
preme Court of Appeals of Virginia. The council
will meet each year on the first Wednesday in De-
cember at Richmond, and will be composed of three
circuit judges, three Corporation Court judges and
ten members of the bar of Virginia, and the council
will be presided over by the president of the Court
of Appeals of Virginia.

REGISTRATIONS AT LEE CHAPEL LOWER:

The beginning of September found registrations of
visitors at Lee Chapel in August, 1928, a few hun-
dred less than the 12,665 registered in the month of
August, 1927. This would appear probable in view
of the opinion many have expressed of less travelers
passing through Lexington and in view of the heavy
rains which interrupted travel during the month.

-——_—-#% -— —_——

DEATHS

DIED: At Hot Springs, Va., September 22nd,
Col. Edward Colston, 67, of Cincinnati, Ohio, one-
armed Confederate Veteran, famous lawyer and rail-
roal counsel, at the age of 84.

DIED: Major J. K. P. Hanna, ’68, of Calvert,
Texas, was struck and instantly killed by a train as he
was crossing the tracks on his way home, September
6th. Major Hanna was born at Chapel Hill, Texas,
October 6, 1852. He attended Washington College in
1868 during General Lee’s presidency. Returning
from college he took charge of his father’s plantation
and followed farming the remainder of his active life.

oli iil apainiael

REV. CHURCHILL GIBSON, of Ardmore, Pa.,
for ten years Rector of the Lee Memorial Episcopal
Church of Lexington, accepted a call to become
Rector of St. James Episcopal Church, Richmond,
and entered upon his duties there October Ist.

 
   
      
  
  
    
  
  
  
 
   
    
    

DR. REID WHITE, JR., ’19, PRACTICING py
LEXINGTON: "2

=o
Pte!

Dr. Reid White, Jr., has begun the Practice of
medicine in association with his father, Dr, k sa
White, Sr., ’85, in his office on Nelson Street, Lege
ington, Va. Reid, Jr., recently returned to Lexing-
ton from the University of Pennsylvania where he —
has been an interne at a hospital there for several
years past. Dr. White, Sr., who is the Washington _
and Lee physician, has been confined to his home —
with sickness for several weeks but is reported much 4
better. a

sienna enn -
te

°

MARRIAGES

MARRIED: Rev. Dr. William T. Riviere, ’12, a 3
Cleburne, Texas, and Mrs. Louise Jennings, of Dal- J
las, on July 19th. i

MARRIED: William Matthew Farrar, Jr., 16,
of East Orange, N. J., and Miss Elizabeth Righter, a
on September 29th. 3

ENGAGED: News was recently received of the —
engagement and approaching marriage of Charles
Taylor Lile, °17, and Miss Nell Carrington, formerly —
of Lexington. After their marriage they will make —
their home in Pittsburgh. 7

MARRIED: George T. Holbrook, ’23, of Hart- a
ford, Conn., and Miss Marie Pike, of New York —
City, on August 14th. 4

a

»

ENGAGED: William Goodrich Sale, Jr., ’23, of
Welch, West Va., and Miss Ann Anderson, of ‘
Richmond, Va. The wedding will take place in
Richmond on November 3rd. a

MARRIED: Otis W. Howe, ’24, and Miss Har- a
riet Virginia Mays, of Helena, Ark., on September
12th.

MARRIED: Irwin William Stolz, ’24, and Miss
Sarah Fisher, of Atlanta, on October 17th.

MARRIED: Randolph G. Whittle, ’24, and Miss
Josephine Parrott, both of Roanoke, Va., on Oc-—
tober 3rd.

MARRIED: Joe Wise Pitts, ‘27, and Miss Alice
Clay Roberts, both of Alexandria, La., on October
13th.

MARRIED: Henry F. McMillan, ’25, of Har-
riman, Tenn., and Miss Mayme Jo Johnson, of
Knoxville, Tenn., on September 21st. In a_ letter
dated September 20, “Bo” writes: “Kindly remem-
ber me to those remaining friends that I have in
Lexington. I am located in Lenior City now with
the Standard Oil Co., having charge of the local

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

plant and service station and as we are only twenty-
five miles from Knoxville, will be there for the W.
& L.-Tennessee football game.”

MARRIED: James Wright Cassell, Jr., ’28, of
Chattanooga, Tenn.. and Miss Beatrice Lauck, of
Lexington, Va., on September 19th.

MARRIED: William L. Griffin Sargent, ’28, of
Richmond, Va., and Miss Susanna R. Blain, of
Lexington, Va., on July 16th.

—_——_-4,
oe

BIRTHS

BORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Eddie Parks Davis,
15. on October 7th, a little boy, “Junior”.

 

PORN: To Mr. and Mrs. Clifton Westbrooke,
‘21, on September 9th, a little daughter, Jean.

RORN: Mr. and Mrs. Murrell Yankee, ’26, an-
nounce the birth of a son, “Junior.”

BORN: To Prof. and Mrs. Marvin G. Bauer, in
August, a son.

RBORN: To Prof. and Mrs. William G. Bean, in

August, a son.

/
— —_“ ——EE

PERSONALS

PROF. and MRS. L. N. HARRIS, ’88, of Charles-
ton, S. C., spent several days in Lexington during
September.

CAPT. GREENLEE. D. LETCHER, ’88, was
commissioned by Governor Byrd, a delegate to repre-
sent the Commonwealth of Virginia at the Institute
of Public Affairs held at the University of Virginia,
August 5-18.

REV. C. R. WOMELDORF, ’90, accompanied by
Mrs. Womeldorf, is occupying the home of Mr. Jo-
seph S. Womeldorf at East Lexington. He has been
preaching for some time in Houston, Texas, and is at
his old home for a vacation.

SENATOR MILES POINDEXTER, ’91, of
Washington state, has bought the old Poindexter home
known as Elk Cliff place, in which he was born, near
Greenlee on the James river. He re-entered the race
for the Senate in Washington after serving as ambas-
sador to Peru and it is not known what use he intends
to make of the property.

MR. WILLIAM McC. MARTIN, 795, of St.
Louis, chairman of the board of directors of the Fed-
eral Reserve Bank of St. Louis, was a recent visitor
to Lexington, accompanied by Mrs. Martin and their
two sons. He found a number of old acquaintances
in Lexington.

DR. RANDOLPH T. SHIELDS, 798, of the

Presbyterian China Mission, accompanied by Mrs.

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

 

 

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND

PRINTERS

Office Equipment and Supplies

ROYAL DALTON
TYPEWRITERS ADDING MACHINES

SURBER
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Shields and their daughter, Evy Tucker, sailed from
Vancouver, B. C., for Shanghai, China, in Septem-
ber. Their son, Randolph T. Shield, Jr., remained in
Lexington where he will attend W. & L.

BORDEN BURR, ’98, of Atlanta, Ga., was in
Lexington on September 11th.

DR. and MRS. SAMUEL M. GLASGOW, ’09,
of Knoxville, Tenn., recently motored from Mon-
treat, N. C., and visited Mrs. Nellie G. Landis in
Lexington for a few days.

DR. and MRS. RICHARD LORD, ’04, and two
sons of Gambier, Ohio; PROF. and MRS. LE-
LAND LORD, ’09, of Woodberry Forest, Va., and
MR. and MRS. POWELL GLASS, ’07, of Lynch-
burg, Va., converged their cars upon Lexington, vis-
ited the collegemate of the men, Mr. A. Fred White,
and lunched with him at the Dutch Inn. Leland
Lord is professor of Mathematics at Woodberry For-
est College and Mr. Glass is editor of the Lynchburg
News.

LEO WEINBERG, ’06, was a recent visitor in
Lexington at the home of his brother, Isaac Wein-
berg.

MR. and MRS. H. P. MONTGOMERY, ’08, of
Allentown, Pa., were visitors to Lexington recently.

DR. M. RYERSON TURNBULL, ’08, of the
faculty of the Presbyterian Assembly Training School
in Richmond, Va., was a recent visitor in Lexington.

DR. J. W. CLAUDY, ’09, of Pittsburgh, was the
guest of Mr. Henry Boley in Lexington recently.

MR. and MRS. A. B. CONNER, ’09, and A. B.,
Jr., of Hampton, Va., were visitors to Lexington dur-
ing the summer.

CAPT. REUBEN RAGLAND, ’09, of Jackson-
ville, Fla., recently visited Col. R. Barclay Poague of
V. M. L., in Lexington.

MR. and MRS. THOMAS M. GLASGOW, 712
and °16, recently visited Mr. Glasgow’s sister, Mrs.
Edwin Landis of Lexington.

ARCH S. WHITE, JR., 12, of Pittsburgh, for-
merly a Lexingtonian, accompanied by his wife, re-
cently visited in Lexington.

GEORGE N. DANIELSON, 717, \ nick-named
“Sheriff” by his fellow law students at Washington
and Lee, was recently appointed Head Naturalization
Examiner at Duluth, Minn. He came to the Lexing-
ton school from Appleton, Wis., where he had been a
court official for several years. He was admitted to
practice law in Wisconsin in 1916, but returned to
Washington and Lee for his degree in 1917. After
having served as a naturalization examiner at St. Paul
for nine years, he was promoted to his present posi-
tion at Duluth. He is in charge of naturalization
work with the Federal government in forty-six courts
in Minnesota, Wisconsin and Michigan.

A letter from WILLIAM B. PATTERSON, 21 _

mailed from Seattle, Washington, contained a part-
ing message to friends from himself and his father

and mother, who went with him to their missionary a

station, Tenghsien, Shantung, China.

They sailed on August 2, reaching China about
three weeks later.

“BOB” CAMPBELL, ’24, is teaching French at
Duke University.

FRANK JONES, ’24, is engaged in real estate
business at Charlotte, N. C.

JOHN R. LEGGATE, JR., ’25, who was recently

married to Miss Louise Breitweiser of Pittsburgh, is ‘
now living at 15 E. Orchard Avenue, Pittsburgh, Pa,

ANDREW T. ROY, ’25, finished last June as one

of the National Council Secretaries of the Y. M. C.
A. Student Division, travelling in the Middle Atlan-
tic area. He sailed August 3rd, to attend the World
Youth Peace Congress at Erde, Holland, and expects
to study for a year at the University of Edinburgh,
Scotland. Mr. Roy was married on July 26th to
Miss Margaret Crutchfield, of Beaver Road, Sewick-
ley, Pa.

ALLEN P. SLOAN, ’25, of Columbia, S. G))

writes us that young alumni located in Columbia in-
clude “BUSTER” GLEATON, ’27; MONTE HAR-
RIS, ’28; YEATON WAGNER, ’24; and NOR-
MAN CULLUM, ex ’25.

PURLETTE SHULL, ’26, spent a few days in
Lexington this fall following a trip abroad. He is an
instructor in French at Emory University, Georgia.

ROBERT TAYLOR, JR., ’26, is connected with
the news department of the Post-Gazette, Pittsburgh,
Pa.

RHEA WHITLEY, ’27, is in government service
in Atlanta, Ga., and expects to visit W. & L., some-
time during November.

NORMAN CROZIER, ’28, is practicing law in
Dallas, Texas.

M. A. SIMMONS, D. S. DIX and JOE
CLOWER, June graduates of W. & L., visited Lex-
ington early in September.

LEONARD JENNINGS, ’28, is at Richmond
Medical College.

JOHN SPIVY, ex ’30, has transferred to North-
western University.

PRATT BROWN, ex ’32, is now attending the
Georgia Tech Engineering School.

—_—-&__—___

DEAN and MRS. HARRY D. CAMPBELL and
MR. ROBERT B. CAMPBELL, ’24, enjoyed a ten
days tour into Maryland and Pennsylvania during
the early fall.

 

 

 

