E. P. DAVIS, President Cc. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

MAIL ORDERS FOR
RECORD, W. and L. Swing by W. and L. Orchestra—50c. prepaid
SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00
Promptly Filled
M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

 

 

—————

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

E. C. Carrrey, President VeRBON E. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GRAHAM, Jr., Treasurer Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
he Year ....cgee0cs snes sss seas © 5 W. W. Sale 93 ou cae ee... ee 21
Founder’s Day Address (Dr. Douglas S. Free- W. Ross McCain, ’°96 Promoted; Paul D. Barns,
MAN) occ ee eer eccerereesrcccseresesrccccs 6 45 ise so vss oC es 8
Two Sonnets (Dr. J. M. Rast) ...........--- 6 George C. Peery, 97; (Synopsis of Address) 23
Athletics ... éi.cie sss so ph > oe es ae 9-10 Judge. «A, Woodrum, Ol ...... “Sean
Alumni Meetings: 3<... ..s..#0+saeeeeeeeee om 11-15
Fraternity Scholarship Averages ...........--. 14 ay ae Atos 9 aa Oa sh hae 4
Fancy Dress8’ ../..s5 «408 04seen See eeen es 16 L. C, Witten, 10... see cece eee eee eens 27
Faculty Introductions—Dr. G. D. Hancock...... 17 Alumni Letters 2... 00. e eee cece eee eens 28
With the Faculty: i... 20.9 Suen ee oes + 18 Blk SN Be ns 5 hos 4 SSeD ape eee 29
Wedding Bells... 3s.4s Ga. «553 ee eee 19 COR or ks Vinee AS eee - +o che enn ee 30
General Jo Lane Stern, ‘69; Joseph John Allen, Perle ois i Re oe cose. pee ee 31, 34
YUE ea ee 20

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)

ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS

General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

RE

ReeeT hid au

: eth
eat SEPM bd 2) +,

t Sh A tod b

. ee a ;-
ra

ry ay "_ or
y ~ ' oe —F.
Pore ee bore Se :
a - 3%
- bd ,

7 '

re .

; so Ele ot Dee k ba

> BaP aL

ty aed Bs bs %
, 5) ;

=. a ¥*
&

~.
elie dT
Sa o

eo 4
-
—_—
pe ae

* *
oa

on

THE PRESIDENT’S MANSION

(Bult for General Lee)

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

e Vou. Il

Ew"

 

MARCH, 1927

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

No. 2

The Year

A crazed train passenger saw two men running to-
ward him on the station platform at Salisbury, N. C.
He opened fire on them. Both dropped. They were
Washington students en route home for Christmas.
They were running toward the Western Union office
in the station to send telegrams. Both recovered from
their wounds in time to reenter college at the close of
the holidays.

ee

The board of trustees met on Founder’s Day, con-
sidered various problems concerning the Chapel and
a new lee Memorial Hall, listened favorably to the
recommendations of President Henry Louis Smith,
granted leaves of absence, made appointments, ad-
journed.

i ee

Faculty members donned cap and gowns, followed
venerable trustees in procession to the Doremus gym-
nasium on January 19th, heard able, eloquent editor
Dr. Douglas Freeman talk on “What Washington Col-
lege Did for General Lee.”

* * *

Alumni gathered at New Orleans, at Washington,
at Baltimore, at San Antonio, Louisville, Greensboro,
to celebrate Founder’s Day. Other meetings were held
in Roanoke, and Richmond on Washington’s birthday.

* BS *k

Lights twinkled. Pirates, sailors, swashbucklers,
mandarins, powder puffs and harlequins gathered in the
Gymnasium. It was a Carnival of Venice. The an-
nual Fancy Dress ball, staged February Ist under the
untiring direction of genial Professor Carl Gill, ’22,
was being held; was a tremendous success.

—

Captain Urmey, “Babe’’ Spotts starred. Fifteen
games were played by the General Cage Quintet. Ten
were won. Victories over V. P. I. and Virginia gave
the Generals clear claim to the State Big Four Basket-
ball championship. They bowed before Vanderbilt in
the initial round of the S. I. C. tournament at Atlanta.

"Fe

The Generals relay team met and conquered the
tamed University of Virginia team in the annual track
meet at Richmond, Va.

ae

Examinations came. Students studied. Sixty-eight

were “caught” by the automatic rule. Over thirty were
reinstated.
a
President Smith discussed orientation courses with
the faculty; studied the faculty salary situation, con-
cluded that faculty salaries should be increased ; visited
relatives in Greensboro, N. C.
ee ee.

Dean Campbell dealt with delinquent students ;
spoke at the meeting of Roanoke alumni; attended a
state education convention in Richmond; went to
Washington for an eye examination and remained
there for protracted treatment of a serious optic
trouble.

* * *

Your secretary published a report on the Financial
campaign ; attended a meeting of the Richmond Alumni
Association in company with Dean W. H. Moreland,
‘06, and Treasurer Paul M. Penick, 96; corresponded,
collected, edited.

‘

Dr. J. Lewis Howe, Dean of Science, attended the
meetings of Baltimore and Washington alumni, Jan-
uary 19th.

*x* * *

The student body Executive Committee considered
breeches of the Honor System, expelled guilty stu-
dents, arranged for public trial of one. Lawyers,
judge and jury were appointed. ‘The defendant pled
guilty on the eve of public trial, decamped.

* (e2\%

Twenty-one preparatory and high school basketball
teams met in tournament at the Doremus Gym. John
Marshall High School of Richmond eliminated all
opponents, met Augusta Academy on the _ finals,
emerged victorious.

ee ee

Sherwood Eddy, famed speaker, traveller, religion-
ist, spoke at a series of meetings on the campus early
in the month under the auspices of the Y. M. C. A.
Inspirational, educational, the meetings were well at-
tended, were enjoyable, helpful.

ee

Commencement day was moved up a week to Tues-

day, June 7th, by the Executive Committee of the
Board upon recommendation by the faculty.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DR. DOUGLAS S. FREEMAN DELIVERS
FOUNDER’S DAY ADDRESS

Speaking from a new viewpoint, not what Lee did
for Washington College, but what his years at Wash-
ington College meant to General Lee, Dr. Douglas S.
Freeman, editor of the Richmond News-Leader, de-
livered an interesting and absorbing address at the
celebration of Washington and Lee Founder’s day.
The celebration was held in Doremus gymnasium on
the 120th anniversary of Lee’s birth, and on the day,
as Dr. Freeman reminded his audience, set aside by
the trustees of Washington College as a day to com-
memorate Lee, at the meeting held just after his
death when Washington College became Washington
and Lee University.

General Lee’s five years at Washington College,
said Dr. Freeman, brought complete final conquest of
his own spirit. He spoke of the human and natural
feelings of the great general following Appomattox,
his distress for the South, his indignation at the im-
prisonment of Jefferson Davis, his apprehensions for
his family, his desire to vindicate himself and _ his
army. The absorption of his work at the college and
its softening influences completely shadowed and al-
layed the unrest in his soul.

Dr. Freeman gave striking instances of the self-
conquest of his spirit in the shouldering and master-
ing of the details of his office, details which were irk-
some to him, without even the aid of a secretary.

The work of his office here, as Dr. Freeman showed,
absorbed his mind and kept him from brooding over
the War between the States. The stage of resent-
ment soon passed, and his intention to write a book
of vindication soon faded into oblivion. The speaker
gave interesting illustrations of how completely Gen-
eral Lee entered into the work of his college. He de-
lighted his young hearers with stories of how stu-
dents were expelled for taking excursions to Natural
Bridge, how General Lee attended classes and ex-
aminations. On one occasion, Dr. Freeman said,
General Lee met a student whose work was falling
behind, and he saluted him with the remark that he
must be very fond of his mother, as he took such good
care of her son.

The last years of General Lee at Washington Col-
lege brought happiness to him. They should be
known as his happy years. The great man had two
heavy weights on his soul; the imprisonment of Jeffer-
son Davis and his distress for the South and _ its
people. The release of Davis brought joy to him,
and an instance graphically described by Dr. Freeman
lifted the load of his sorrow from his heart. This
was the occasion of his visit to Petersburg in 1867
for the marriage of his son, General Rooney Lee.

Dr. Freeman expressed General Lee’s reticence to
travel and to stir up in the hearts of his people the

TWO SONNETS

(Grateful acknowledgment to the author, Dr. J.
Rast, Wofford College, S. C.)

GEORGE WASHINGTON

When in the scales of Justice wrong outweighed —
The right, and tried the souls of men as naught
Before had tried, your will unyielding taught
The faint of heart to battle undismayed

And rout defeat with musketry and blade; |
As well you shaped the ends of peace, and wroug}
For hosts unborn, foundation beams of thought — a
Whereon the pillars of a world are laid.

-

 

Forsake us not, firm faith of Washington,
While yet our edifice is incomplete—

Possess the groping builders of to-day, e
Lest their dreamed heights of freedom ne’er be roll
Revive the hopes that in their bosoms beat, | a
Dispel their doubt, and all their fears allay. |

a

Ropert E. LEE

Virginia proudly boasts thee as her son,

And well she may, since nobly dost thou stand
Among the Old Dominion’s sturdy band

Of patriots, whose honored deeds begun
Would brook no end but vict’ry bravely won.
What more could any commonwealth command
Than sons like thee whose actions well were planr
Whose only aim was duty calmly done?

O valiant son of old and valiant line,

No local bonds can circumscribe thy fame;
For elements of greatness meet in thee

That none could give but Him who is divine;
Years add new light and luster to thy name—
Thou art the world’s beloved immortal Lee.

 

 

    
   
   
    
   

recollections of the sorrows of war. When prevaile
upon to go to Petersburg, the journey brought up 1
his mind the days of his campaigns in the fields tha
he passed as he journeyed along. His striking re ‘}
tion from his old soldiers at Petersburg, the expre
sions of love, confidence and hope on their faces sa
a turning point in his life, and he returned to Lex
ington with his vigor renewed and a great weight
lifted from his soul at the spirit of his countrymen t
conquer the new and trying days of the aftermath
The legend that General Lee died of a broken vail J
said Dr. Freeman, is a myth, for his soul was too”
great and his faith too deep to be broken by any hapa
pening on this earth. 4

He closed with a graphic incident showing? ne
spirit of Lee “to deny himself.” =

Previous to the address, President Henry Low ep
Smith read his annual report on the progress of the
University during the past year. a

-

orl

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

ACTIONS OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
IN SESSION JANUARY 19th

The official governing body of Washington and Lee
held their regular semi-annual meeting on Founder’s

Day. January 19th.

Concerning the Lee Chapel the board heartily ap-
proved the fire proofing, as far as practicable without
reconstruction, of the Lee Chapel and the construc-
tion as soon as funds can be secured, of a Lee Me-
morial Hall, fronting toward the Lee Highway and so
near the Lee Mausoleum as to be easily accessible to
visitors. ‘They recommended that this Lee Memorial
Hall contain not only a suitable auditorium for patrio-
tic and academic gatherings, but also a suitable fire-
proof gallery and museum.

The board granted leave of absence for May and
June to Coach E. Parker Twombly to play baseball
with the Newark club of the International league.

Professor Walter A. Flick was granted a leave for
the balance of the year from the education department
to pursue work on his Ph. D. at Ohio University.

The appointment of Frank J. Gilliam as assistant
professor of English for the remainder of the year
was approved.

The board authorized the employment of a full time
professor of public speaking.

The executive committee was empowered to put
in an orientation course for freshmen and to secure a
professor.

The employment of Miss Helen Rockwell as cata-
loguer was continued for another year.

The appointment of Mrs. Mildred Lee Francis by
the U. D. C. as custodian at Lee Chapel was ap-
proved; and the board voted its appreciation of the
work of Mrs. Albert S. Edwards, retired.

The following members of the board were present:
Rector Lucian H. Cocke, Trustees William A. An-
derson, George W. St. Clair, John S. Munce, Rev.
William McC. White, Harrington Waddell, H. B.
Sproul, Charles J. McDermott, James R. Caskie and
Rev. W. L. Carson.

FINALS DATE CHANGED: COMMENCE-
MENT TUESDAY, JUNE 7th

Due to the conflict of dates for the Commencement
at V. M. I. and W. & L. the faculty recommended to the
executive committee of the Board of Trustees that the
W. and IL.. finals be advanced from June 12-14 to
June 4-7. The executive committee accepted this
recommendation. It was felt that the accommodations
of Lexington would not be adequate to comfortably
take care of the visitors to both institutions at the
Same time.

DID YOU KNOW ?

That Merriwether Lewis, private secretary to Presi-
dent Jefferson, explorer of Rocky Mountains with
Captain William Clark, Governor of the Louisiana
territory, was an alumnus of Washington and Lee
(then Liberty Hall Academy) class of 1793?

* *« *

 

That Austin Peay, thrice elected Governor of
Tennessee, now considered a presidential possibility,
isa W. & L. alumnus, class of 1893?

6 * * *

That Dr. George Junkin, President of Washington
College 1848-61, resigned his position because of his
sympathy with the Union cause at “he outbreak of the
Civil War?

* * x

That John Breckenridge, author of the Kentucky
Resolutions 1799, U. S. Senator and U. S. Attorney-
General under Jefferson, was a former student, Au-
gusta Academy, about 1770?

* * *

That Washington and Lee sent a complete ambulance
unit to France during the World War, under Pro-
fessor Forest Fletcher, Top Sergeant, which was
thrice decorated for bravery in action?

That Washington and Lee had more alumni in posi-
tions of responsibility and distinction in the national
administration during the World War than any other
college, and that comments on this fact were made in
the leading newspapers of the country during 1919?

ee

That Washington and Lee’s first Endowment fund
was the gift of George Washington, and that the
University still receives an income of 6% from this
gift?

x * x

That the W. & L. student body has increased from

488 to 927 in the past fourteen years?
e ae

That the first “curved” ball in college baseball was
pitched by G. A. Sykes in a game with Virginia in
77?

ye

That Honorable S. J. Graham, now judge in the
U. S. Court of Appeals, was a player on the varsity
baseball team of ’73?

k *k x

That Honorable H. St. G. Tucker, now representa-
tive in Congress, rowed on the Harry Lee crew in ’74,
and that ex-Senator George E. Chamberlain succeeded
him in the shell of ’75?

on. ¢

That these facts are listed in the Alumni Directory

and Service Record? Have you ordered your copy?

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

COLLEGE SUICIDES NOT DUE TO OVER.
STUDY PRESIDENT HENRY LOUIS
SMITH DECLARES

“The recent wave of college suicides is not due to
overstudy,” declares President Henry Louis Smith.
“Neither psychology nor any other subject has con-
tributed any cause for the suicides committed during
the past few weeks. Such things can only be ex-
pected in this age of moral degradation.”

Dr. Smith contends that for every four students
who study just enough in the educ ational institutions
of today, there are 250 more who study too little.
Theories advanced saying that phychology and psycho-
analysis were responsible for the suicides held no
weight with W. & L.’s noted educator.

“Suicides are merely the evidence in college circles
that the nation is suffering keenly from a lack of re-
ligious and moral standards. We are in such an age
of self-indulgence and criminality that the student
who has committed a crime or an indiscretion and
finds his deed about to be discovered, seeks escape by
putting a bullet through his brain.”’

That the number of suicides in college is not out of
proportion to the number in other phases of life is
the contention put forward by Doctor Smith, backed
by the fact that every day men and women, both edu-
cated and uneducated, take their own lives.

—— -

NEW STUDENTS AND CADETS BRING
SCHOOL UP TO LARGEST
ENROLLMENT

Enrollment of new students and cadets at the local
institutions since the recent examinations give the
largest number of matriculates ever entered at both
schools.

At V. M. I. fourteen new cadets have been enrolled
for the new semester, bringing the total matriculation
for the year to 724.

Twenty additions to the rolls at W. & L. U. brings
the total matriculations for the year to 927. Of the
twenty new students, eight are new men and twelve
are students re-entering college from former years.
It is understood that a considerable number were
dropped by operation of the automatic rule, follow-
ing examinations.

DEBATING REVIVED

Interest in debating and forensic activity is increas-
ing among Washington and Lee students. Under
Prof. Fitzgerald Flournoy further strides are being
made toward again making debating and its kindred
art one of the most popular activities on the campus.

A W. & L. team met the Oxford University (Eng-
land) debaters in the fall, and the University of Vir-

   
  
   
 
   
    
 
  
   
  
  
 
   
  
    
 
 
  
   
   
   
   
  

ginia team last month. Both events drew an e: 4
lent attendance, due largely to the “open forum” for;

of presentation and judging that has been adopted
Plans are being made for additional contests durin
the spring. 2

LITTLETON IS NAMED COMMENCEME
ORATOR

Hon. Martin W. Littleton, one of the most disti ti
guished jurists, public men, and political leaders of t
United States has accepted an invitation to deliver ;
Commencement address in the Lee Chapel on Tues .
day, June 7th.

Mr. Littleton was born in Tennessee, practiced |
in Dallas, Texas, from 1893 to 1896, and since
been a resident of New York with an office at—
Broadway. As Assistant District Attorney, President
of the Brooklyn Borough, Congressman in the 62n¢
Congress, and prominent member of the New Yor
Southern Society, Mr. Littleton’s career has beet
quite exceptional. As a Southern democrat and —
delegate from New York he was chosen at the — ‘a.
tional Convention of 1904 to present the name o
Alton B. Parker for the Presidential nomination.

As the warm friend and associate of Mr. John - V.
Davis and Judge McDermott he will accompany thet
to the commencement exercises. Although he neve
enrolled as a regular student at Washington and ;
Mr. Littleton attended lectures in the Law Depz
ment of this institution in "95 and ’°6 under Profes
Tucker and Professor Graves.

Ag

nS

FRESHMAN RULES IN 1900

In the Ring-tum Phi of February 10, 1900, ther
appeared a list of ten rules, written and enforced b
the Sophomore class, which was entitled the “Fresh-
man Decalogue.” Some of the rules are odd, espe
cially the one which forbid the “‘frosh” from wee cif
hats with the class numerals. This right was resée et
for upper-classmen. 4

The three following rules are a fair example of whe
the freshmen were supposed to obey: Zi

“Thou shalt not wear fine raiment neither Stetse D
shoes nor socks in three colors, lest they be torn fror
thy person and offered unto Siamese as a gift.”

“If thou play pool with an upperclassman, thow
shalt spot him as many as eight balls, and at billiards
thou shalt turn him even at full score, and if, by
chance, thou shalt beat him, yet shalt thou render lo
the keeper of the house the price of thy sport.”

“It is meet and right that thou render unto th ny
superior a tithe of thy income in cigarettes and ce ca
colas; for in this way is the heart of a man made gia
and the gates of divers fraternities and ribbon societi s
shall be opened unto thee.” ;

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

FOURTH ANNUAL SCHOLASTIC BASKET-
BALL TOURNEY

Staged by the Washington and Lee Athletic Associ-
ition, the fourth annual preparatory and high school
basketball tournament was completed Saturday, March
5th, in the Doremus Gymnasium. Twenty-one teams
were entered from three states and the District of Co-

jumbia.

The 1927 tournament was won by John Marshall
High School of Richmond, Va. The Augusta Military
Academy of Mt. Sidney, Va. was runner up with Oak
Ridge Academy of N. C. (last year’s winner) and
Devett Preparatory School of Washington, D. C.
sharing third honors.

Again credit to Graduate Manager R. A. Smith,
originator of the idea and manager of the four suc-
cessful tournaments.

—_———_——

ATHLETIC FIELD WILL BE FENCED

Graduate Manager of Athletics, R. A. Smith, has
contracted as representative of the University with
the Cyclone Fence Company from their Baltimore of-

fice for a shipment of galvanized steel fences eight °

feet high, to be placed around Wilson field with the
possible exception of the northeast corner which re-
quires more filling in. This section will be fenced in
after the repairment is made. |

The galvanized fence will keep out trespassers when
the field is not in use and will make it impossible to
witness an athletic contest on Wilson field without pay-
ment of the admission charge.

W. AND L. TRACK TEAM WINS

The Washington and Lee indoor track team re-
turned from the South Atlantic mect in Richmond with
anew cup. ‘The cup was awarded on the strength of
Washington and Lee’s victory over Virginia in the mile
relay race. Although the team failed in most of the
other events, the relay foursome did nobly in its race
against the Cavalier quartet. It seemed that the Cava-
liers felt the need of their horses in that race, for the
Generals defeated them by the comfortable and con-
vincing margin of fifty yards.

 

SPRING FOOTBALL STARTED

Spring football practice started Monday, March
l4th, with the arrival that morning of Coach “Pat”
Herron. In the past few years the coach has usually
arrived several days before practice started, but “Pat”
was busy pleading cases up to the last minute, for that
is his occupation between football seasons.

Practice will continue for about six weeks.

BASKETBALL REVIEW

The 1927 cage five coached by able Captain “Dick”
Smith Graduate Manager of Ath'etics, made an ex-
cellent record, won the State Championship. Out of
fifteen games played, only five were lost. Much
credit goes to Captain Frank Urmey, fighting, spirited
guard whose pnenominal work was the feature of the
season.

Players making up the team for the year were
Spotts, C., Ebert White, Eagleback and Lowry, for-
wards, Groop, Urmey and Joynes, guards. “Babe”
Spotts, veteran center, won much praise for his ef-
fective work throughout the year.

The curtain for the year was rung down when the
Generals were defeated in their opening game at the
Southern Conference tournament at  Altanta by
Vanderbilt. ‘Their conquerors subsequently won the
tournament.

The results of games played were:

Maryland, 33; W. & L., 24.

Catholic University, 43; W. & L., 25.

W. & L., 34; William & Mary, 25.

W. & L., 29; Richmond College, 30.

W. & L., 24; N. C. State, 36.

W. & L., 44; Davis Elkins, 32.

Kentucky, 36; W. & L., 38.

West Va., 48; W. & L., 29.

W. & L., 31; Duke, 20.

W..& 1. 393-¥. P. Tae

W. & L., 38; South Carolina, 29.

W. & L., 34; Maryland, 32.

Virginia, 20; W. & L., 25.

* Wlk ES 46;-V. P.1., 4)
S. I. C. Tournament.

W. & L., 32; Vanderbilt, 44.

 

VARSITY TRACK PRACTICE BEGINS

A large class of candidates reported for Coach Flet-
cher’s first call for outdoor track men. With eight
monogram and former Varsity men reporting back,
Coach Fletcher has a nucleus around which he can
build his teams for this spring.

Frosh track aspirants proved to be many when 27
yearlings answered the call. Many have been in train-
ing all season. Practices will continue daily under
Coach Fletcher, who will have charge of both Varsity
and Frosh teams. The season opens with Duke, on
Wilson field, April 2nd.

The schedule for the coming track season so far ar-
ranged by R. A. Smith, is:

Duke, here—April 2.

N. C. State, there—April 9.
Wm. & Mary, here—April 16.
Richmond, here—April 26.

V. P. I., here—April 30.
Virginia, there—May 7.

i0 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FIGHTERS LOSE TO TECHMEN

The boxing season started on January 8, when the
Generals met V. P. I. in the Doremus Gymnasium,
which resulted in a 4 to 3 win for the Techmen. The
two teams seemed evenly matched and the judges
found difficulty in agreeing unanimously on any one
bout. In the 160-pound class, Rand, of Washington
and Lee, and Esleek, of V. P. I. fought what was con-
sidered the best bout of the evening. This encounter
went four rounds, as the judges decided on a draw for
the first three.

In the fourth round, both Rand and Esleek showed
much class and skill, but as the ju:lges could still ren-
der no decision, the referee awarded the bout to V. P.
I. Also in the 175-pound class the judges again could
not decide between Pattie of the Gobblers and Mer-
ritt of the Generals, so the referee was again forced
to make a decision, it going to the visitor.

Only one knockout took place during the evening.
This came in the fourth bout when Avrack of W. and
L. floored Young of V. P. I. for the count of ten in
the third round with a right cross to the chin.

 

ARMY BATTLERS DEFEAT GENERALS

The Army boxing team triumphed over the W. & L.
boxers in bouts staged at West Point. At the close of
the meet the score stood, Army 6, W. & L. 1.

The Generals of the ring showed up remarkably
well, but were not able to withstand the hard fists of
the Army in their favorite pastime Although, the
score seems to indicate that the Generals were snowed
under with an avalanche of fists, every bout was
closely contested and awarded on_lecision.

Osterman was the individual star of the Generals
and saved them from total defeat by scoring a decis-
ion over his man. He displayed beautiful form and
completely out-boxed the Army man. Red Merrit,
158-pound class, was in top notch form and displayed
his best of the season, showing more aggression than
in previous bouts this year.

 

DANCE CONDUCT VERY PLEASING

The conduct of Washington and [ee men and their
guests was far above reproach according to the opinion
of the Executive Committee of the student body.
President R. M. Holt said he hopes all Washington
and Lee dances in the future will display a similar
standard of refinement which was so apparent at
Fancy Dress and Junior Prom.

However, two visitors were reported as misbehav-
ing in an ungentlemanly manner. They have been
barred permanently from attending any future Wash-
ington and Lee social affairs.

- WASHINGTON AND LEE MEN PASS STATE

   
  
  
    
 
 
   
  
   
   
   
    
  
  
   
   
     
  
 
    
  

PUGS LOSE SECOND MEET OF INVASION

With their spirits dampened somewhat because of
the lacing handed them by the Army boxing crew, the
Washington and Lee boxers were unsuccessfy] ; -.
their attempt to best the Catholic University in Wash-
ington and lost by a score of 6 to 1. 7

Ostermann again was the only W. and L. man to
win a decision on the week-end trip made by the be
ing team to West Point and Catholic University, Ng
knockouts were registered in the bouts. Captain P aa
was in his prime and while putting up as good a fig
as his opponent, failed to win the decision of ¢}
judges. Avarack also showed up to good advantage
and made his man work hard. 5

Coach Fletcher commenting on the two boxing
teams said that the Army had the better team with
several veterans from last year’s team still in the togs,

 

MITTMEN LOSE TO ST. XAVIER PUGS _

The Blue and White mittmen lost the final match o
the season to St. Xavier at Cincinnati by a four to
margin. Captain Price and “Doc’’ Ginsburg were the
winners for the Generals and although the remaininj
bouts were dropped, each was closely contested and
hard fought. Price won in the 135 pound class anc
Ginsburg, although weighing about 145, won in the
unlimited division. This marked the first fight of the
present season for Ginsburg, who came out to té ce
Bailey’s place following the latter’s injury in the match
with Carolina. Xi

—_— --—_———<‘ -

GENERAL GRAPPLERS DOWN
VIRGINIANS 4

The Washington and Lee wrest'ers won over he
Virginia mat men by a very decisive score of 26 to 3;
losing only one bout which went to Captain Pe on,
veteran of the Cavaliers, after a desperate battle with
Varney of the Generals. Washington and Lee’s large
score was the result.

=

BAR EXAMINATION a

Nine Washington and Lee men passed the state bat
examination in Richmond last month. Only one can-
didate, a second year student from the institution,
failed to pass the examination. Eighty-four of the
number examined passed and sixty-one failed to pass
the examination. The successfu! candidates from
Washington and Lee were H. C. Clemmer, C. Da
Conrad, F. G. Hudgins, T. J. Russell, W. G. Sale, Jr.
J. E. Seale, J. O. Strickler, Gibson Witherspoon and”
C. M. Lewis. Lewis was a sub-professor at V. M. 1.
several years ago, who while here took two years ot
law at Washington and Lee, completing his course #&
Yale.

7
ay

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

Washington, D. C., Alumni Association Meeting

Dr. James Lewis Howe, Professor of Chemistry,
was the guest of honor at the annual meeting of the
Washington, D. C., alumni luncheon held at the Uni-
versity Club on Lee’s birthday. Elwood H. Seal,
president of the association, acted as toastmaster.

About thirty alumni assembled to hear Dr. Howe's
interesting address which covered present conditions
at the University and the needs and problems arising
from the University’s rapid growth. He also paid
eloquent tribute to the work of General Lee as Presi-
dent of Washington College. Prior to this luncheon
Dr. Howe spoke on General Lee at an assembly of
George Washington University students.

The association decided to hold regular monthly
luncheons in order that the members might have a
better opportunity for getting acquainted.

Those attending the annual meeting were: Dr.
Wm. Taylor Thom, ’70; Dr. John W. Warner, ’03;
Milton W. Camer; James C. Hobday, W. T. Thom,
Jr., "13; H. Wise Kelly, 13; Edmund D. Campbell,
18; John W. Addison, ’05; Madison P. Coe, 715; F.
D. Compton, ’21; P. H. Wisman, 706; D. W. Alex-
ander. (04: Wade H. Ellis, ’°89; Elwood Seal, ’14; P.

DEAN Howe

“At Baltimore”

“At Washinaton”

 

 

 

W. Buhrman, ’17; Baldwin B. Bane, 17; E. W. Bris-
tow, °15; W. O. Burtner, ’21; Thos. R. Hamilton,
17; Walter H. Dunlap, 06; K. W. Trimble, ’06; F.
P. Guthrie, ’11; G. Hunter Osborne, ’23; R. S$. Paul-
ette, 20; Dozier A. DeVane, 08; B. C. Flournoy,
97; James K. Lowe.

 

 

AT BALTIMORE

Seventeen Alumni gathered for dinner at the Uni-
versity Club to celebrate Lee’s birthday. Dr. James
Lewis Howe, Professor of Chemistry, representing
the University and Congressman George C. Peery,
97, of Tazewell, Virginia, were the guests of honor.
Jackson R. Collins, 15, president of the Baltimore
Alumni Chapter presided.

Dr. Howe spoke of conditions at the University.
Outlined the progress and needs of the University,
reviewed its past history and told of the immediate
prospects.

Mr. Peery spoke on Robert E. Lee, reviewed the
outstanding events in the great General’s career and
in his eloquent address presented a most fitting birth-
day tribute to the Founder of Modern Washington
and Lee. (Address reported elsewhere in this Num-
ber.)

Alumni attending the meeting were:

A. H. Chandler, R. Palmer Ingram, Geo. C. Peery,
Matthew Page Andrews, Jackson R. Collins, Rober-
deau A. McCormick, Geo. W. Sparger, John W.
Baylor, R. Glenn Craig, John D. Mayhew, Frank A.
Jacobs, Jr., A. R. McNamara, Theodore C. Waters,
F. Stanley Porter, J. Carl Fisher, M. D. Williamson
and John H. Latané.

SAN ANTONIO MEETING

H. Crim Peck, 07, of Lexington was the guest of
honor at the San Antonio alumni dinner on January
19th. Mr. Peck spoke informally on present condi-
tions at Washington and Lee, recalled famous Lex-
ington personalities, chatted about items of interest to
the individual members present.

The San Antonio association may well be proud of
its record. Although it is the smallest organized chap-
ter of the Alumni, Inc., it boasts of having seventeen
students from San Antonio at Washington and Lee
this year—a telling indication of activity.

Those attending the annual dinner were: Albert
Steves. ’74: Ernest Steves, ’°75; Walter Steves, *14;
H. Crim Peck, 07; E. R. Guenther, ’87; Louis Hillje,
17: R. O. Huff, 98; Russell Wine, 12; C. C. Wur-
bach, ’15; Joe Glass, °13; Jesse J. Beitel, 09; and Al-
bert Steves, Jr.

—

 

Miss Annie White, who sailed for Europe on Jan-
uary 15th, expects to spend the winter in Florence,
Italy, and later tour several countries, returning to
Lexington some time next August.

 

A. Lee Robinson, ’83, is President of the Robinson
Pettet Company, wholesale druggists in Louisville,
Kentucky.

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

At Roanoke

Under the leadership of President R. G. Whittle
and his able fellow officers, Roanoke alumni gathered
at the Patrick Henry Hotel in Roanoke for their an-
nual banquet on Washington’s birthday. Dean H. D.
Campbell, ’82, and Graduate Manager R. A. Smith,
14, were the speakers of the occasion.

After an excellent dinner Dr. Campbell made an
interesting address on past and present conditions at
Washington and Lee. “Dick” Smith outlined the
progress and problems of the Athletic Association.
Plans for the year were made in an interesting busi-
ness session.

The officers of the active Roanoke association are:
R. G. Whittle, ’24, President; L. J. Boxley, ’09, vice-
president, and Morris L. Masinter, *16, secty.-treas.
The directors are: E. W. Poindexter, ’04; C. S. Me-
Nulty, 02; Hugh M. Moomaw, ’07; Horace M. Fox,
01; Robert B. Adams, 713; Geo. W. Chaney, 711;
John B. Newton, Jr., 713.

Those attending the February 22nd meeting were:
B. G. Garrett. S. D. Stokes, J. W. Poindexter, Shir-
ley Riley, J. B. Newton, Jr., L. J. Boxley, P. C. Bu-
ford, Isador Forman, H. B. Apperson, C. E. Kreg-
loe, L. O. Fagan, W. K. Davis, E. C. Dickenson, R.
B. Hilton, E. W. Poindexter, Geo. W. Chaney, Wil-
liam Leap, Carson Penn, H. EF. Mayhew, C. S. Mc-
Nulty, Tohn Nelson, B. E. Estes, M. L. Masinter, R.
G. Whittle, R. W. Curtis, F. W. James, Victor
Friend, Lee Hanes, George Vogel, Joe Engleby. S.

     
    
  
 
   

DEAN CAMPBELL—“On Present Conditions.” ;
\

 

 

S. Gurrant, Guy Laughon, Bill Gibbons, Reid Steele,
Roger Winbourne, Henry Davis, Marion Bergman,
E. A. Fitzpatrick, Lucian Cocke, H. M. Moomaw,
H. S. Moore, Zeek Quarrer, Rufus Bowman, W. §S.
Engleby. Judge T. L. Keister of Salem was also-
present. a

Miss Marie Van Dorn, assisted at the piano by
Miss Helen Hiatt, rendered some very attractive mu-_
sical numbers during courses at the banquet. &

»

’
es
Ps
c

- e
+

 

 

 

NEW YORK ALUMNI MEET FOR
LUNCHEON, MARCH SECOND

An enthusiastic group gathered at Sardi’s Restau-
rant on Park Place, to be together at luncheon on
March 2nd. There were fourteen members of the
New York Alumni Association, meeting to exchange
greetings, discuss topics of mutual interest, reminis-
cence on days spent at their Alma Mater, to plan and
hope for her future welfare, to exchange humorous
anecdotes—in all, to enjoy a get tozether party of old
class-mates and friends.

Those present at the luncheon were: Earl W. Bible,
24; James A. Lee, 717; W. R. Burton, °17; R. E.
Tyrell, 19; Henry W. Dew, ’11; Roy Grimley, ‘21;
W. Davis Conrad, ’03; Donald G. Grimley, ‘23;
George S. Mueller, ’20; Hugh R. Hawthorne, ’10;
Charles T. Lile, ’16; Charles A. Cohen, ’24; and Reu-
ben A. Lewis, Jr., ’16.

 

E. A. (“Jiggs”) Donahue, ’15, is with the E. A.
Donahue Company, fruit and produce brokers, at 46
Clinton Street, Boston, Mass.

NEW COURSE IN JOURNALISM SCHOOL —

History, Principles, and Administration of Journal-—
ism is a new course offered by the Lee Memorize 3
School of Journalism at Washington and Lee the sec-_
ond semester, Howard M. Thompson, acting director, —
announced. ;

     
   
 

The new course will replace a course in Editorial
Writing which terminated with the end of the first —
semester. The course includes a study of the im-
portant movements in the history of Journalism, a con- —
sideration of comparative Journalism by nations with —
attention to the effect of news exchange on intef- —
national relation, and an examination of the back- —
ground of experience in policy and program as prac- —
ticed by six of the largest newspapers in North ~
America. ‘The course consists of lectures, text books,
and special addresses, no laboratory methods being —
employed.

 

Dr. Edward Lyons, ’15, of Detroit, and his bride ~
were recently the guests of Mr. and Mrs. Louis M. —
Lyons of Lexington.

 

-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Richmond Alumni Club

Alumni of the Richmond section met for purposes
of re-organization at the Commonwealth Club of Rich-
mond, Saturday evening, February 26th. W. H.
Moreland, Dean of the W. & L. Law School, was the
principal speaker. George E. Haw, ’04, retiring
president of the association, acted as toastmaster. Mr.
John S. Munce, trustee, introduced Dean Moreland.

In his address, Dean Moreland recounted the his-
tory of the Law School, paid tribure to the work of
Judge Brockenborough, of Hon. John Randolph
Tucker, of W. R. Vance, of H. St. G. Tucker, Judge
M. P. Burks, J. R. Long, former deans of the Law
School. He told of the present high standards and re-
quirements of the Law School and of its consequent
high rating by the American Bar Association.

During the business meeting that followed Dean
Moreland’s address, a motion was made and _ unani-
mously passed that a permanent Richmond Alumni
Club be formed. C. H. Morrissett, ’12, was elected
president, C. H. Moss, ’18, vice-president and O. M.
Stumpf, °16, secretary. Interesting speeches were
made on the formation of the club by C. H. Morris-
sett, Dr. R. L. Simpson, J. M. Stumpf, C. E. Jewett,
L. E. Epes, Dr. J. M. Hutcheson, Dr. A. A. Houser,
K. A. Goode and Dr. L. T. Stoneburner. The pro-
gram was concluded with brilliant speeches by the four
“General Lee” men present; Gen Joe Lane Sterne,
69; Hon. H. F. Wickham, ’68; James P. Nelson, ’68;
and S. H. Yonge, ’70. Mr. Paul M. Penick, Treas-
urer of the University and Verbon EK. Kemp, Alumni
Secretary, were introduced and made short talks.

Those attending the meeting were: Clyde N. Allen,
EK. Turner Bethel, Stephen F. Beveridge, Donald P.
Boyer, Lawrence C. Caldwell, William Clark Coul-

DEAN MoRELAND
“Chief Speaker”

 

 

bourn, Dr. F. Dewey Davis, Dr. Richard W. Fowlkes,
Minitree F. Fulton, Kenneth A. Goode, A. M. Har-
ris, Frank W. Harrelson, John L. Harrison, George
E. Haw, Col. LeRoy Hodges, Dr. A. A. Houser,
Dr. James M. Hutcheson, John Ingles, Lewis E.
Jarrett, Carleton E. Jewett, Edwin C. Laird, E.
L. MacFarlane, C. H. Morrissett, Charles W. Moss,
John S. Munce, James P. Nelscn, W. J. Patton,
Charles H. Phillips, Louis E. Epes, James H. Price,
F. B. Richardson, George S. Riggs, Dr. B. M. Rose-
bro, Dr. W. A. Shepherd, B. H. Turnbull, L. L.
Shirey, Dr. R. L. Simpson, Gen. Jo Lane Stern, H.
O. Stone, Dr. L. T. Stoneburner, O. M. Stumpf,
Herbert T. Taylor, Roy Davis Thompson, Elliott
Vawter, Dr. Atwood M. Wash, kon. H. T. Wick-
ham, William A. Williams, W. Owen Wilson, Samuel
H. Yonge, Willis D. Miller, O. H. Haden, W. C.
Kidd, Verbon E. Kemp, W. H. Moreland and Paul
M. Penick.

 

A NEW IDEA

Workers in the various alumni chapters may derive
some helpful suggestions from the plan of the Rich-
mond, Virginia, alumni for an alunini club.

This plan contemplates four meetings per year:
three supper meetings, 6:30 to 8 P. M., at the local
University Club and one annual banquet. Dues are to
be $7.50 per year, paid in advance ‘This payment in-
cludes the cost of the four quarterly meetings. All
alumni in Richmond and surrounding towns are eligi-
ble for membership.

lt is felt that this plan will dispense with the neces-
sity for straining to get a full attendance at every
meeting; that it will eliminate the “drones” and that
it will give the organization a sufficient working sur-
plus with which to accomplish some definite objects
lor the good of Washington and Lee.

CY TWOMBLY SIGNS FOR PRO BASEBALL

Cy Parker Twombly, assistant physical director at
Washington and Lee, has sent in a signed contract to
play baseball with the Newark baseball club for the
1927 season. ‘Twombly is a right-handed pitcher. He
joined the Newark club last year after mid-season and
maintained the remarkable record of winning eight
games and enjoying a clean slate of no defeats. “Cy”
was one of the six pitchers in the International League
to have an average under three for earned runs scored
against pitchers.

Cornelius V. DeBiaso, ’26, of 9 West Park Place,
Rutherford, N. J., writes us, “1 am hard at work at
the University and Bellevue Hospital Medical College
here in New York City. Gone are the good old days
I spent at W and L,., but how can one forget them ?”

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LOUISIANA ALUMNI ASSOCIATION

A small but delightfully “fellowshippy” annual
gathering of louisiana alumni was held on January
19th at Kolb’s restaurant in New Orleans. Eighteen
sat down to the excellent menu, a half dozen of the
old regulars being absent from force of circum-
stances. Dr. H. M. Blain, ’95, presided in a most in-
formal way, and the activities of the past year and
plans for the coming year were freely discussed.

The feature of the evening was the radio address
on “Robert E. Lee, the Builder of a New South,”
prepared for the occasion by President Henry Louis
Smith, at the request of the Louisiana Association,
and broadcast over WSMB by Dr. Blain. Most en-
thusiastic reports were received from local people,
and several from a distance. Some distant points,
however, reported static interference. Some expres-
sions complimentary of the address were:

“Most beautifully executed talk I have heard for a
long time.”

“Words cannot express the appreciation of that
wonderful talk.”

“Enjoying your Lee program. Sorry I can’t be
with you.”

“Enjoyed your address of last night immensely.”

During the dinner, telegrams were read from Dr,
Smith, Verbon Kemp, Madison & Madison, of Bas-
trop, La., and L. D. Cohn, of Monroe, La. An en-
thusiastic letter was read also from the Association
scholarship holder, Charles M. Smith, of New Or-
leans. “I can sincerely say,” says he, “that nothing
could have meant more to me, could have given me a
greater incentive to make good than studying in the
halls where Robert E. Lee taught, and being re-
minded constantly by the sight of his home, his seat
in the Chapel, and the feeling of his very presence on
the campus. It is the personal and individual contact
with the spirit of Lee which seems to me to be the
finest thing at Washington and Lee.”

Incidentally, Mr. Smith came through the interme-
diate exams with flying colors, and was invited to
join an honorary fraternity as a result of his “A” in
English.

All officers were re-elected for the ensuing year as
follows: President, H. M. Blain; Vice-President, R.
C. Milling, 08; Secretary, F. P. Fischer, ’25. The
roll contains 134 names, including the Shreveport
members, who now have their own association.

Those in attendance were: Rev. W. McF. Alexan-
der, 84; Hugh M. Blain, 94; Lazu Block, ’74;
Harry M. Butler, 12; Paul S. Felder, 97; H. H.
Harvey, ’76; Dr. Ludo von Meysenbug, ’13; Roberts
C. Milling, ‘08; Palmer Orr, ’20; W. B. Wisdom,
21; John Wisdom, ’25; J. W. C. Wright, Jr., ’21;
Samuel McC. Young, ’98; W. F. Smith, ’26; George
Hill, "76; Wm. L. Owen Whaley, ’12; John Maher;
C. V. Foster, ’13.

PHI EPSILON PI AGAIN LEADS __
SCHOLASTICALLY

Phi Epsilon Pi again led the Greek letter fratern
ties scholastically with an average of 77.707 for ty
first semester, according to the averages compiled p
Register E. S. Mattingly. ‘This marks the thirteent
consecutive semester that this fraternity has led ¢h,
other national fraternities on the campus. :

There were noticeable changes in the Standing a
compared to rankings last year. The most noteworthy
was the rise from eighth to second place by the Beta
Theta Pi fraternity. Its average for the past se ester
was 75.615. The Zeta Beta Tau’s finished third wit
an average of 74.946. Delta Tau Delta, Alpha | Ch
Rho, Phi Delta Theta and Phi Kappa Psi folloy
close behind. a

The Arcades Club, local fraternity, with an avers ye
of 78.033 had the highest average of any orgeniaa :
on the campus. The comparative standing of the r
tional fraternities for the first semester of the session
of 1926-27 is as follows: a

  
  
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
   
   
   
  
 

FO epenen Pi. i. a8 <0 oe 77.707
2: Beta Theta Pi... .... ine 75.615
5. Zeta Beta Tau)..... 2000. ce 74.964
4. Delta Tau Delta. ... . 2... eae 74.780
5. Alpha Chi Rho. ........ slau 74.752
6. Phi Delta’ Theta... .... 0)» 74.443
7. Phi Kappe ‘Psi... .. 2... 74.221
8. Phi Kappa‘: Sigma... ...62Jigam 73.945
9. Pi’ Kappa Alpha. ...)...77.39 75.858
10. Sigma’ Nu... 3. 2. a 73.568
il. Pi‘Kappa Phi... :... +). 73.334
12. Kappa Alpha ....0..../. 48 72.449
13. Sigma Alpha Epilson.......... 72.257
14. Alpha Tau Omega............ 72.250
15. Phi’ Gamma Delta: ...:..1 7338 72.197
16. Kappa’ Sigma. .: 26.2... 2 eee 71.684
17. Sigma Chi-......0.is00.0e ee 70.888
18. Lambda Chi Alpha............ 70.593
19, Sigma Phi Epilson..........928 70.417
LocaL CLuB sf
Arcades 5.6 o5/.5.:. Ss. 306 2 78.033 “Sam

£

MAGAZINE CONTAINS EXCELLENT FEA-
TURE STORY ON WASHINGTON
AND LEE

The Outlook magazine issue of February 16th
contained an excellent story on Washington and Lee
by George E. Marvin. The article is illustrated by —
two excellent campus views and contains a competent —
review of the University’s history. =

Mr. Marvin has made several studies of prominent —
universities for the Outlook. His splendid story of —
Washington and Lee will make a very worth while —
reading for every alumnus who can secure this num
ber of that magazine. Sy

_  ——

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

At Louisville

Dear Sir:

On General Lee’s birthday, the local Alumni Asso-
ciation had a very delightful and profitable meeting
and banquet at the Kentucky Hotel in this city. The
committee in charge decided to invite the wives and
sweethearts of the alumni, as well as the parents of
the boys now in school. This is the first time that we
have had the ladies to our meetings, but from the
success of this one it is assured that they will be reg-
ularly invited in the future.

Interesting talks were made by Judge Thomas R.
Gordon, who was in school at the time of General
Lee’s death, and by Mrs. Helm Bruce, a native of
Lexington and a sister of Dr. Reid White, and also
by Henry Wilson, '26, and Judge Ernest S. Clarke,
now a vice-president of the First National Bank of
this city, and until recently a Chief Justice of the
Kentucky Court of Appeals, who has two boys at
Washington and Lee.

Judge Gordon’s talk dwelt on the impressive fea-
tures of General Lee’s life and the influences that he
has left in the University, while Mrs. Bruce capti-
vated the meeting by a most entertaining recital of
her childhood recollections of General Lee. Judge
Clarke in pavinez tribute to the University, said that
his faith in it was evidenced by the fact that all he
had in the world, his two boys, were now there and
that he preferred for them to be there rather than in
any other University.

In addition to the speakers, alumni attending the
meeting were Helm Bruce, T. Kennedy Helm, who
was a classmate of John W. Davis. Arthur Tabb, R.
M. Strassel, John J. Davis, John W. May, Jr., Henry
K. Hill, Jr.. George S. Mercke, J. T. Foley, C. E.
Pfau, Jr.. Chalmer Caudell, W. R. Kneblekamp, Dr.
C. A. Boone, and R. P. Hobson.

Yours very truly,
R. P. Hopson.

 

All praise to president Hobson, °15; to vice-presi-
dent John J. Davis, 95; to secretary T. P. Foley: and

 

Bos Hosson, °15

“Effective Worker”

 

 

their associates in the Louisville association for their
effective work.

Bob Hobson started his law practice soon after
graduation, was appointed Special Agent U. S. De-
partment of Justice in 1917, went through the cele-
brated Newberry case, began practice in Louisville in
1920, was taken into the law firm of Woodward,
Warfield and Hobson on January 1, 1925. He mar
ried Miss Catherine P. Cochran of The Plains, Vir-
ginia, in 1917. They have two children.

 

 

WILLIAM C. RAFTERY, ’15, MADE HEAD
COACH OF ATHLETICS AT THE
VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE

Following the withdrawal of Blandy B. Clarkson
as head coach at the Virginia Military Institute,
where he will give his entire time to the business of
graduate manager and teacher, the athletic authorities
have selected William C. Raftery as head coach for
the coming year.

The selection was made by a committee composed

of Colonel R. B. Poague, Major Clarkson and Cap-
tain-elect Mondy of football.

Mr. Raftery has been for the past five years assist-
ant coach at the V. M. I. Prior to that time he was
coach at Washington and Lee for several years. He
is an experienced and accomplished athletic director.

—_—_——

 

T. W. Swope, ’24, is Specialty Supervisor for the
Aluminum Cooking Utensil Company, Washington,
D.C.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Fancy Dress

The Fancy Dress Ball has an insistent homeward
urge for our dancing alumni and they appeared in
full force to join in the festivities of this elaborate
celebration. The “Carnival in Venice,’ as the ball
was most appropriately named this year, was a
never-to-be-forgotten sight, and the Carnival spirit
pervaded the Campus from night-fall till day-break.
As darkness fell young men in sketchy costumes
might be seen flitting from place to place in search of
a necessary accessory to add perfection to a stunning
costume.

Under the exceptionally talented and untiring ef-
forts of Professor C. FE. L. Gill and his helpers, the
Doremus Gymnasium was transformed into a thing
of wonder and beauty. The walls were lined with color-
ful venetian scenes; the balcony screened by exquisite
hangings; and above the heads of the dancers floated
softly tinted streamers interspersed with hundreds of
vari-colored balloons and lanterns, with twinkling
lights flashing on and off incessantly giving an un-
real and mysterious effect.

The opening figure began shortly after ten o'clock;
all the guests in costume, not in, the main figure, tak-
ing part in the grand march. Kings, queens, courtiers,
nuns, priests, pirates, devils, gnomes and _ witches,

    
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
 
  
  
  

*

came trooping on the floor, marching and groun;,
and dissolving in kalaidoscopic changes of color an
beauty. At the close of the figure the dancers forr
around the floor and, the music changing into a sof
measure, dainty little Miss Elizabeth Foster,
Charleston, W. Va., appeared, accompanied bya
enamored spot-light, and performed a charming
ballet. ;

Eight groups constituted the Carnival figure, t¢
first being in Spanish costume, led by the Presider
of the Ball, J. D. Carter with Miss Peggie Doug
of Washington, D. C. They entered from an eleya
tion at the east end of the gymnasium and progresse
to the west end, where the leaders took their places o
the throne of the Carnival. Next came the Frer c
Colonial group, marching the length of the floor | an
taking their places opposite the Spanish. The Eg
tian, American Black Bottom, Gipsy, Scotch, Chinese
and Dutch groups followed in the order named, lin:
ing up to the right and left of the throne. ¥

After a moment’s pause the dancers swung int
motion again, forming many intricate figures, with at
immense W & L, as its climax, and breaking up into
sea of color as the music floated into a well-knc
waltz.

 

 

FANCY DRESS BALL GETS PUBLICITY IN
NEWSPAPERS

The fame that the Washington and Lee Fancy:

Dress Ball has obtained is well shown by the amount
of space that has been devoted by southern news-
papers to pictures of dancers that appeared at the
twenty-first annual ball.

The Baltimore Sun of February 20th, carried a
picture in the rotogravure section of J. D. Carter and
Miss Peggy Douglas, Washington debutante, who led
the main figure.

The Atlanta Journal, also of February 20th, con-
tained three pictures that covered a third of a page in
the rotogravure section. One picture of considerable
size was of Miss Elizabeth Kely, of Winchester, Vir-
ginia, who was dressed as a pirate. Immediately be-
low it was a smaller picture of Miss May Clark, of
Atlanta, and W. J. Dorsey, of Philadelphia, in French
Colonial costumes. A third picture contained a group
of eight dancers.

These pictures were taken by White Studio the
night of Fancy Dress and sent to newspapers in New
York, Washington, New Orleans, Atlanta, Baltimore
and other cities. In addition to the pictures, articles
describing the dance were also sent out by the pub-
licity department of the University, which has been
conducting an extensive campaign since September and

has sent out over 209,000 words concerning
that have taken place in the University.

  
  
  
  
  
   
  
    
 
 
   

 

MANY STUDENTS ARE DOWNED BY
NEW AUTOMATIC a

Sixty-eight Washington and Lee students
caught in the toils of the new automatic rule as t
scholarship standards. Thirty of this number were re
instated after petitioning the faculty. 4

The new rulings which sounded the strains of “Col-
lege Friendships” to 38 men is the result of a me €
which is gradually raising the scholarship require-
ments of Washington and Lee. The new autom: atic
rule was adopted last year to be effective in the semes-
ter just past. "

Under the new ruling “a student automatically
severs his connections with the University if he re-
ceives Grade F in six semester hours, or if he fails to’
pass nine semester hours.” Augmented by the policy
of restriction of matriculates, the rule is a forward —
step in raising the scholastic standing of Washington —
and Lee. |

 

. ae

J. W. Milner, ’15, who is serving his second term
as Mayor of the City of Gulfport, Mississippi, is also
operating the Coast Coca-Cola Bottling Company and
the Coast Chevrolet Company.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Faculty Introductions

Dr. G. D. Hancock

Dean of Commerce and Administration.

Tall, angular, quiet, efficient, capable Dr. Glover
Dp. Hancock has been professor of Economics and
Commerce and director of the department of Com-
merce at Washington and Lee since 1910, and Dean
of the School of Commerce and Administration since
‘ts reorganization in 1920. Professors Lauck, Willis
and Urdahl had preceded him.

A Californian by birth (Los Angeles, Jany. 10,
1878) Dr. Hancock spent his early life in Missouri.
Therefore, he considers himself a native Missourian.
He graduated A. B. and A. M. at William Jewell Col-
lege, Liberty, Mo., 1898-99. He specialized in Eco-
nomics at the University of Wisconsin, receiving his
Doctor’s degree at that institution in 1908. During
this period he taught in high schools and preparatory
schools, served as special agent for the Wisconsin
State Tax Commission. He was then elected assist-
ant Professor of Economics at Amherst College, 1908.

Coming to Washington and Lee when the Com-
merce department employed only two professors and
had only thirty-three students, including freshmen
specializing in the course, Dr. Hancock has built it
into a real school of Commerce, with ten professors,
five distinct departments with 230 students above the
sophomore year enrolled. Separate degrees in Com-
merce have been awarded since 1920. ‘This award and
date marked the emergence of the department into a
completely organized school and the elevation of Dr.
Hancock to the deanship of Commerce and Adminis-
tration.

Dr. G. D. Hancock

Dean of Commerce

 

Originally conceived by General Lee, the school of
Commerce today stands as a memorial to Hon. Wil-
liam L, Wilson, president of Washington and Lee
1898-1901, in whose memory a $100,000 memorial
Endowment Fund for commerce and allied subjects
was raised. Its present position and popularity is
due chiefly to the work of Dean Hancock and the able
associates with whom he has surrounded himself.

Dr. Hancock married Miss Mabe! Kimzey in 1911.
He is a member of the American Economic Associa-
tion, having served on the Executive Committee of
that organization, the Political Science Association,
the Sigma Nu fraternity. He was a member of the
Governor’s Board (Virginia) of Legislative Research
in 1919. He is an Episcopalian. His hobbies are
hunting and fishing, with golf between seasons.

 

 

AT CHARLESTON, WEST VIRGINIA

President Henry Louis Smith was the guest of
honor and the principal speaker at a luncheon given

by the Washington and Lee Alumni Association of”

Charleston, West Virginia, at the Kanawha Hotel on
January 26th.

Ex-Governor William A. McCorkle, of West Vir-
ginia, who is a member of the Washington and Lee
board of trustees, presided over the large and enthu-
Silastic meeting.

President Smith outlined in his speech the needs

and plans for a greater Washington and Lee Univer-
sity.

W. D. Lewis, also a Washington and Lee trustee,
Was among the prominent alumni present.

The Charleston alumni association has at preseit

100 members, and is among the leaders in such
Washington and Lee organizations.

With this excellent beginning the Charleston
alumni again met on Washington’s birthday for fur-
ther organization. Over forty alumni attended.
Hon. Wm. A. MacCorkle, ’77, presided. H. V.
Campbell, °13, was the principal speaker. Other
speakers were Waller C. Hardy, 04; W. D. Lewis,
72, trustee; Judge J. M. Woods, 96; R. H. Martin,
80; Lon H. Kelly, 93; D. N. Mohler, *12, and W.
C, Rivercomb.

At the February 22nd luncheon Harry V. Camp-
bell was elected president of the Charleston or-
ganization; Brown Truslow, ’09, vice-president, and
W. W. Donnally, ’24, secretary-treasurer. A commit-
tee on arrangements consisting of Harry A. Hall, ’23,
John C. Morrison, ’25, W. W. Donnally, and J.
Kay Thomas, ’26, was appointed. All credit to this
committee for their initial efforts.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

WITH THE FACULTY

Proressors ATTEND MEETING

Professors W. D. Hoyt, E. K. Paxton, R. G. Me-
Dorman and B. A. Wooten represented Washington
and Lee University at the meeting of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science held in
Philadelphia, December 29-31. This association is a
parent organization of which various allied scientific
organizations are part. Dr. Hoyt is a member of the
Biological Society in attendance. Dr. Paxton went as
a member of the Mathematical Society. Dr. Wooten
was primarily interested in the exhibits of the Ameri-
can Physical Society.

MorELAND ATTENDS Law CONVENTION

Dean W. H. Moreland of the Law school attended
the annual Law Association convention in Chicago;
Ill., December 29-30 at the Hotel LaSalle. The as-
sociation consists of sixty member Law schools. ‘The
membership of the Mississippi University and Van-
derbilt University were dropped from the association
for failure to comply with the requisite standard of
this association. Professor Billig formerly -of the
Washington and Lee faculty, represented Cornell Uni-
versity.

Dr. Lorserc ATTENDS PHILOLCCICAL MEETING

Dr. J. O. Lofberg, of the department of Ancient
Languages at Washington and Lee University, at-
tended the meeting at the American Philological So-
ciety held at Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.,
December 28-30. With the American Philological
Society which is now in its 56th year met the Linguis-
tic Society of America and the American Archaeo-
logical Association. Programs with-addresses by mem-
bers of the three organizations were in force.

Dr. E. F. SHANNON ATTENDS MEETING

Dr. E. F. Shannon, professor of English at Wash-
ington and Lee University, recently returned to Lex-
ington from Boston, Massachusetts where he attended
the Modern Language Association meeting, Decem-
ber 29-31. The attendance this year was the largest
in the history of the association, no doubt due to the
drawing power of Harvard University as the oldest
American university, stated Dr. Shannon. Dr. Shan-
non presented a paper on Chaucer as one of those pri-
marily interested in the Chaucer group.

 

President and Mrs. Henry Louis Smith spent ten
days in Greensboro, N. C., where they were called be-
cause of a serious accident to their niece, Miss Fanny
Smith, daughter of the late Dr. C. Alfonso Smith.

 

Professor C. E. Williams was called to his home at
Woodstock, Va., because of the serious illness of his
brother, Mr. Phillip Williams, ’10. He returned to
Lexington after his brother was out of danger.

  
   
  
 
   
   
  
 
    
   
  
   
  
 
 
   
    
 
 
   
  
   
    
 
   

SUCCESSFUL PHOTOS MADE OF RADIUI
RAYS 23

~ po

Dr. B. A. Wooten, assisted by R. FE. Kepler and. 1
Yoepp, successfully photographed the Alpha rays ¢
radium during the initial weeks of this semecta
This experiment was made possible by the purche sei
a Knipp Alpha Ray Track apparatus by which ¢
Alpha, Beta and Gamma radium rays may be pr,
duced. The one used in this experiment was the f
one purchased by any college or university in the coun
try. Dr. Wooten foresaw the evaluation of this }
strument to the physic department on a recent visit ¢
the company’s establishment. The head of the physi
department specialized in radio for his degree and }
is a well recognized authority on the subject.

 

DR. ROBERT H. TUCKER SERVED ON
CITIZEN’S COMMITTEE

Dr. Robert H. Tucker, Professor of Economic
was a member of the Citizen’s Committee on Cor soli
dation and Simplification of State and County Govern:
ments, which was appointed by Governor H. F. Byrc
to report on these conditions in Virginia. Dr. Tucke
attended the meeting of this committee in Richmonc
during February and was the author of many im:
portant recommendations which the committee mz de

Gps

DEAN H. D. CAMPBELL AND DR. W. M.
BROWN ATTEND STATE |
CONVENTION

Dean Campbell and Dr. W. M. Brown represente a
Washington and Lee at the meeting of the Associatic
of Virginia Colleges and Universities at Richmond,
Va., February 18-19th. Dr. Brown is vice-prelii
of the association. He reported on the subject 0
“Teacher Training in Liberal Arts Colleges.” Dr.
Campbell participated in the discussion of this subject

 

DR. M. RYERSON TURNBULL, ’08,
SERIOUSLY INJURED IN AUTO
ACCIDENT IS RECOVERING

Dr. M. Ryerson Turnbull, ’08, of the faculty or
the Presbyterian Assembly’s Training School at Rich-
mond, Virginia, was seriously injured in an auto ac: —
cident on his way home from classes January 20th.
Early news of his condition was of the most alarming
character. Seriously injured on the head, two open
tions were necessary to relieve his condition, and fF
remained in a semi-conscious state for several week S
However, he has steadily improved and has becom c
strong enough to be moved from the hospital to his”
home. |

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

From the President to the Alumni

Wuat Has BEEN ACCOMPLISHED

The financial report of your Secretary, Verbon E.
Kemp, dated Feb. 20th, is already in your hands. The
fact that since 1913 more money has been promised
hy living donors and more actual cash collected from
living donors than during the whole period from 1749-
1913 is a matter of mutual congratulation. Against
the $1,177,802 actually collected since 1913, we must,
however, place the $467,000 of unpaid subscriptions
of which $309,000 are over due. The “one big job’
of the 1400 alumni still owing unpaid subscriptions 1s
evidently some settlement of these promised contri-
butions, either a payment in full or some compromise
made necessary by changed financial conditions. But
to the four thousand alumni not under present fi-
nancial obligations to their Alma Mater, and especially
to the organized Alumni Associations now holding
regular meetings and longing to be of practical serv-
ice to their institution let me make the following ur-
gent suggestion:

The present salaries of the enlarged teaching force
average about a 40% increase since the World War,
but the actual cost of living has increased about 65% .
thus making the actual purchasing power of our pres-
ent salaries probably less than they have ever been. In
the case of married professors, renting a home and
rearing a family, the matter becomes a genuine do-
mestic tragedy. But for their self-sacrificing love of
W. & L. we would have lost twice 2s many able teach-

ers as have felt compelled to accept more lucrative
positions in the past three years. Unless we can raise
the salary-scale almost immediately, still greater losses
are in sight in the very near future.

ur PRESSING PROBLEM

Under these circumstances I wish to continue as
energetically as ever to persuade men of means and
liberality to invest their Lee sympathies and their Lee
money in the better endowment of Lee’s poverty-
stricken institution.

But to those whose gifts must be limited to small
amounts I urge a careful study of the following calcu-
lation.

The present salary-cost of the teachers only is in
round numbers about $160,000 per annum. It should
be increased $40,000 by raising every teacher’s salary
twenty-five per cent. This $40,000 annual increase
would require about a million increase in fixed endow-
ment, which might take five to ten years to raise. If
only half of our unpledged alumni would average an
annual gift of $25 this increase could be made at once
while the campaign for bequests and large endowment
gifts goes steadily on.

This message, therefore, is to ask every alumnus to
consider this vital question and should you in the near
future receive a more direct request to answer it with
a speedy affirmative.

 

 

WEDDING BELLS

KE. EK. Brett, former boxing and wrestling coach at
Washington and Lee, was married recently in Flor-
ida, his bride being a sister of Mrs. FE. P. Twombly
of Lexington.

Boliver I. Johnston, ‘01, was married on Decem-
ber 30th to Miss Cottie L. L. Swink. They are liv-
ing in Melbourne, Florida.

Henry W. Dew, °11, was married on January 20th,
to Miss Sarah Elizabeth Ford, of Houston, Texas.
They live in New York City, at No. 15 Park Ave-
nue,

William Leon (“Pin’?) Webster, ’12, was married
on January 25th, to Miss Eileen McDonald of New
York City.

Norfleet Turner, '23, was married on January 26th,
to Miss Elinor Ragland, of Memphis, Tenn.

Announcement has been received of the engage-
ment of Evan Sidebottom McCord, °17, of Fort
Worth, Texas, to Miss Katharine Rout of Versailles,
Ky. The wedding will take place in April.

MARRIAGE OF EDDIE PARKS DAVIS

A social event of widespread interest was the wed-
ding Saturday evening, January 29th, at the Lee Me-
morial Church, of Miss Edith Derbyshire and Edward
Parks Davis. The Episcopal ceremony was performed
by Dr. Churchill Gibson, the rector, assisted by Rev.
James J. Murray, pastor of the Presbyterian Church.

The bride’s attendants were Miss Anne Derby-
shire, maid-of-honor; Mrs. Henry A. Wheat, Jr., of
Geneva, N. Y., matron-of-honor; and Mrs. Mercer
Graham, Miss Elsie Lucas, Miss Mary Monroe Pen-
ick, of Lexington, and Miss Heleah Porter of Char-
lotte, N. C.

The groom’s attendants were: Mr. Charles 5S.
Glasgow, '09 best man; Messrs. Cleon S. Osbourn, *12
of New Haven, Conn.; E. L. Graham, ‘11 and R. A.
Smith, °15 of Lexington; Irwin Graham, ’10 of Coo-
lemee, N. C.; James DeHart of Durham, N. C. The
ushers were Mr. Mercer Graham, °18 of Lexington;
Messrs. R. M. Holt, Joseph M. Holt, Wm. W. Pal-
mer, Harry Clemmer, C. Wells Little and Louis J.
Rauber of Washington and Lee.

After the ceremony at the church a reception was
held at “Spring Meadows,” the country place of the
bride’s parents.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

General Jo Lane Stern, ‘69

The annual Confederate Ball held in Richmond,
Virginia, on Lee-Jackson day, was led by General Jo
Lane Stern, 69, with Mrs. Walter Lee Hopkins, wife
of W. Lee Hopkins, °12. This annual affair would be
incomplete without the leadership of the genial, gra-
cious, generous General. He is an institution in Rich-
mond and in Virginia. More than a “leading citizen”
he is the personification of the ideals of a bygone day,
the embodiment of the old south in the new, yet with
tolerance and understanding.

With the celebration of Lee’s birthday it was re-
called in the Richmond papers that General Stern was
one of the few living men who were students at Wash-
ington College under General Lee. In giving some of
his recollections of his student days, General Stern
recalled with pride his ride upon Traveler, General
Lee’s loved war horse.

“It was in the winter of ’69-’70, during Lee’s ab-
sence in the South with Miss Agnes (a daughter
whose health was poor). Miss Mary, another daugh-
ter, asked if I would go out to a nearby farm on an
errand for her. If I would go I might ride Traveler.

“Was Traveler so famous then?” he repeated the
question and answered it by illustration.

“By the time I got to the courthouse corner a stu-
dent mob, recognizing Traveler, had given chase in
the hope of sharing my glory.

“While Miss Mary’s request was being complied
with on the farm, I was pulling out handfuls of
Traveler’s mane and tail. My pockets were filled
with mane and tail when I got back to Lexington.
That trophy some vandal stole from me, but not the
memory of being the only person outside the Lee
family ever to ride Traveler.

 
    
   
   
    
  
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
   
 

“I was so impressed with the daintiness and <«
ness with which Traveler made his way through
red winter mud on that day,” General Stern 0
tinued, “that when General Lee returned I me io
this to him. >

“*That’s how he got his name,’ I was informed,”

Recently when asked in what way he was
fluenced as a student by the president of his eo 3
General Stern’s eyes twinkled. |

“Well,” he admitted, “there was one occasion ,<
which I tried very hard to follow General Lee’s e
ample. It was during the commencement bs Is.”

Here he digressed. “Just the other day I y
looking at one of those old dance programs, and
only then realized how full of famous ex-Confedera
was that little Virginia town of Lexington during tl I
days of Lee’s residence there. In one evening
danced with two of Lee’s daughters, a daughter ¢
Governor Letcher, the ‘fighting’ governor of Virgin i
a daughter of General Albert Sidney Johnston, kille
at Shiloh; a daughter of Commodore Matthew
taine Maury, the first geographer to chart the
and a daughter of General Pendleton, who had
head of the Confederate artillery. 2

“Oh, yes,” he resumed, guided back to his histor
“it was about 2 o'clock in the morning. I returned
the Lee Home from one of the commencement ba
with a famous beauty from Baltimore, a guest in t i
Lee family for this occasion. General Lee met us”
the gate and—it may be from relief at finding }
guest at home safely, after some concern—took m
companion into his arms and kissed her. 2

“That is one instance where I repeated attempt
to follow General Lee’s example.”

wt
i.

 

 

Joseph John Allen, °70

That army of men who count themselves blessed
above their fellows, because they were permitted to
look upon the heroic face of Robert E. Lee is near-
ing extinction. Among our alumni is one who knew
him and who has proof of his friendship. Capt.
Joseph John Allen of Louisburg, N. C., who as a
youth of 17 followed the fortunes of the Confederacy
to the bitter shadows of disaster, and who, when a
little older, had the high privilege of becoming a stu-
dent under Lee at Washington College, now come to
be Washington and Lee University.

The records of the college carry the names of no
finer Latin student than was Capt. Allen when he was
a youth. So excellent was his record as a_ student
that General Lee was moved to write the young
man’s father a letter about it, and that letter, framed

  
   
   
  
     

and carefully preserved, is the most treasured ain
among the worldly goods of Captain Allen; unless
is an autographed photograph of the General, git
the young student when he had distinguished him-
self. a

Captain Allen is now past his 80th birthday.
remembers many incidents of his year in Was ee
ton College under General Lee. ‘The General tat
no classes, confining himself to administrative rk,
but he came much into contact with the stadt ot
the college. His office was always open to them, é J
he welcomed them there for counsel and discussi
of their problems. Captain Allen is still one of 1e
best Latin and Greek scholars in North Carolina and
can read his Virgil with more ease than most men
read their newspapers. =

e e

 

 

;
ee
b
2
y
,
;
‘
;
;
i
.
.
E

THE AI.UUMNI MAGAZINE 21

William Wilson Sale, 93

William Wilson Sale was born in Rockbridge
County, Virginia, September 30, 1870, entered
Washington and Lee as a law student in 1891 and
graduated there in June 1893, with the degree of
B.L. He located in Norfolk, Va., and started the
practice of law. While in Norfolk he built up a suc-
cessful practice, largely of a corporation nature; was
general counsel for the Seaboard National Bank, the
Atlantic Trust and Security Company and the Defi-
nite Contract Building and Loan Association. He
was also local counsel for the Southern Bell Tele-
phone Company, the Long Distance Telephone Com-
pany. and represented many other interests. Mr.
Sale was three times elected to the Senate of Virginia
from Norfolk City and was a member of the Senate
when he resigned to accept appointment as Adjutant
General of Virginia. In the meantime he joined the
Fourth Virginia Regiment and had been made a
member of the Staff of Governor J. Hoge Tyler.
with the rank of Colonel of Cavalry.

Mr. Sale closed his law offices in Norfolk and
opened them in the Travelers Building, Richmond,
Va., and is now a member of the firm of Sale and
Thompson. In 1908 he married Miss Edith Dabney
Tunis of Norfolk. They have one child, a son, about
five years old.

After moving to Richmond Mr. Sale was again ap-
pointed Adjutant General of the State and was serv-
ing in this capacity when the World War began.

In the meantime, he mustered in the Virginia vol-
unteers for Mexican border service and mustered
them out again when that was over. After war was
declared against Germany, Colonel Sale mustered in
the National Guards for that service. He had been
appointed by the Secretary of War Disbursing Off-
cer for the State of Virginia; was made Executive
Officer of the Selective Draft Law and organized the
draft work in Virginia. He asked to be released
from this work to go over-seas and was recom-
mended to command the Coast Artillery Unit or-
ganized in Virginia, which afterwards went over as
a heavy gun organization. This request was denied
on account of the service he was then performing.
He continued to serve as Adjutant General and
United States Disbursing Officer for Virginia and
Executive Officer of the Draft until June 1918, at
Which time owing to a change in administration, he
Was honorably discharged. He again applied for
duty and was recommended for the position of Judge
Advocate General on a Division Staff for over-seas
duty, and was in Washington awaiting orders when
the war closed. Col. Sale was recommended to the
Secretary of War for distinguished service by Gov-

 

W. W. Sate, 93
“Mustered—”

 

 

ernor Henry C. Stuart for the manner in which he
conducted the Adjutant General’s and draft work
during the war. Virginia probably stood first in this
work under his administration.

Col. Sale was a distinguished graduate of his
class in Law at Washington and Lee and holds a cer-
tificate of distinction for his work here during the
first year.

While at Washington and Lee Mr. Sale managed
the football team for two years. He was a member of
the athletic association and managed the baseball team
one year. He was also a member of the Kappa Alpha
Fraternity and is now a member of the Alumni Chap-
ter of that organization in Richmond.

--

OMICRON DELTA KAPPA INITIATES

B. B. Tips, J. B. Towill, W. J. Dorsey, F. B. Wa-
ters, G. F. Maynard, H. S. Spotts, R. F. Howe, G. D.
Varney, L.. S. Stemmons, D. C. Porter, M. M. Junkin,
C. J. Crockett, F. M. Hearon, R. S. Barnett, Jr.

 

os

Here is an epitaph that was recently discovered on
an old tombstone near Wetumpka, Alabama:

“Here lies the body of Solomon Peas,
Under the daisies and under the trees.
Peas is not here—only the pod.

Peas shelled out; went home to God.”

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W. Ross McCain, 96, Promoted

W. Ross McCain, Secretary of the Aetna Casualty
and Surety Company, has been promoted to the o/-
fice of Vice-President and Secretary of that com-
pany. The Hartford Courant, (Conn.) of February
4, 1927, gives the following sketch of Mr. McCain’s
activities.

“W. Ross McCain was born and lived in Arkansas
until he came to Hartford. After graduating from
college, he studied law, was admitted to the bar, and
in 1908 entered the insurance business in the office oi
A. B. Banks & Co., of Fordyce, Ark. Mr. McCain
filled various field positions with other companies,
coming to the Aetna Insurance Company in 1911 as
state agent for Arkansas. In 1919 he was called to
Hartford and elected assistant secretary of the com-
pany, and in 1923, was promoted to the position of
secretary. He has executive charge of the under-
writing of the company, in the southern states. Mr.
McCain has taken an active part in the social and
civic life of Hartford. He is a member of the city
planning commission, was a member of the zoning
committee, has served as president of the Civitan
Club, and is one of the board of governors of the
Hartford Golf Club.”

Mr. McCain is related to Washington and Lee in
a family way. Dr. E. F. Shannon, head of the Erg-
lish Department (See ALUMNI MaGazine, January,
1927), is his cousin. S. A. McCain, senior honor
student and
nephew. Two other cousins, Arthur McCain and
Howard McCain graduated in 1915 and 1920 re-

Rhodes Scholarship winner is his

spectively.

  
   

W. Ross McCartn, °96

“Vice-President of Aetna”

 

 

 

PAUL D. BARNS, ’15, APPOINTED
JUDGE

The imposing number of Washington and Lee
Alumni serving in important judicial positions in the
State of Florida was swelled by the appointment of
Paul D. Barns, °15, of Miami, as Judge of the Civil
Court of Records last June. This position was cre-
ated by the Florida Legislature of 1925 and the court
came into existence on January 1. 1926. Judge
Barns was endorsed by the local Bar Association for
the appointment and last June was nominated in the
primary for reappointment—to expire 1931.

Paul Barns came to W. and L. in 1913 from Plant
City, Florida. He was in the Academic School for
two years and then returned to Florida to enter the
Law School of his State University. He was ad-
mitted to the bar in 1916. He was engaged in the
practice of law at Plant City at the outbreak of the
war. He entered the Army Air Service in July 1917,

  

became Instructor and Acting Sergeant Major of the
Aerial Gunnery School at Talliagerro Field, Ft.
Worth, Texas, and was discharged in February 1919,
as Sergeant First Class of the Air Service.

At the close of the war Mr. Barns again entered
the University of Florida, graduating in Law in Feb-
ruary 1920. He practiced at Miami until his impor-

tant appointment to the newly formed bench of the
Civil Court of Records.

B. C. MOOMAW, ’10, SELLS APPLE TREE

An unusual apple tree of the Stayman variety de-
veloped in the orchards of B. C. Moomaw, Jr., “10:
of Barber, Virginia, was recently sold to the Stark
Nurseries of Louisiana, Mo., for $1500. The tree
will be fenced off in Mr. Moomaw’s orchard and cut
tings will be taken each year to the famous Stark

Nurseries. (Clay H. Stark, 15, Treasurer.)

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

George C. Peery, '97

Mr. Peery graduated in Law at Washington and
Lee in 1897, being one of nine men who took the law
course in one year. He was admitted to the Bar at
Tazewell, Virginia, in the summer of 1897 and
formed a partnership with A. 5. Higginbotham. In
1299 he entered the legal department of the Virginia
fron, Coal and Coke Company and devoted the major
part of his time for two years to title work in South-
western Virginia and Eastern Kentucky.

In 1902 Mr. Peery located at Wise, Va., in the
general practice of law and became local attorney for
the Virginia Iron, Coal and Coke Company. In 1915
he returned to Tazewell, Virginia, and became a
member of the firm of Chapman, Peery and Buch-
anan. Mr. Buchanan is also an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Mr. Peery was Democratic elector at large from
Virginia in 1916 on the Wilson-Marshall ticket, and
a delegate to the Democratic National Convention
held at San Francisco in 1920. His son, Albert Gil-
lespie Peery, who accompanied him to the convention
as a page, is now a student at Washington and Lee.
He was also a delegate to the Democratic National
Convention held in New York in 1924.

In 1922 he was nominated as the Democratic can-
didate for Congress in the Ninth District of Vir-
ginia; renominated by acclamation in 1924; again re-
nominated by acclamation in 1926. His election and
re-election in this former stronghold of the opposing
party reflects the admiration that his constituents
have for him. His majority has increased with each
election.

In Congress he is a member of the Committee on
Roads, Census, and Revision of Laws. During his
period of service in the national body he has made
notable speeches on Roads, on Farm Relief and on
the Italian debt settlement.

Brief Synopsis of Address Delivered before the
Washington and Lee Alumni, Baltimore, Md.,
by Hon. George C. Peery, at the University Club
January 19, 1927. ,

Mr. Peery reviewed the growth of bureaucracy and
the Federal Government at Washington and made
an appeal to resist the growth of bureaucracy and
the building up of a strongly centralized government
at Washington. He called attention to the fact that
the Hamiltonian plan of Government overwhelmingly
defeated at the outset, seems to be supplanting the
Jeffersonian plan by a gradual and insidious process
of evolution. Duplication of functions on the part of
the State and Federal Government should be avoided

 

Gro. C. Peery, 97
“One of Nine Men”

 

 

UU

and where a governmental function properly belongs
to the state it should be performed by the state.

Mr. Peery then spoke of the life and character of
General Lee. Among other things he said:

“He is unique in that he is great in failure. Ga-
maliel Bradford in his splendid book ‘Lee—The
American’ says of him:

“*And Lee is one of the most striking, one of
the noblest tragic figures the world ever pro-
duced.’ ”

He is unique again in the striking purity of his char-
acter. One writer said of him:

“‘Tndeed, the perfection of Lee becomes some-
what oppressive. One would welcome the
discovery of a shortcoming in him, as redeem-

9?

ing him to humanity.’

This statement in point of fact may be somewhat
overdrawn but if a shortcoming existed in his char-
acter his self control enabled him to master it. A
beautiful and well considered tribute is paid him by
Mr. Bradford in the statement that “few men have

24° THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

guided their actions more strictly and loftily by con-
science than Lee.”

“One of the outstanding virtues of his life and
character was devotion to duty. This virtue dis-
played in youth, followed him as a_ student through
the Military Academy at West Point and _ later as
Superintendent of the Academy, as a soldier and af-
terwards as a private citizen. To him has been at-
tributed the authorship of the sentence, ‘Duty is the
sublimest word in our language.’ To those who know
the life of Lee and his devotion to duty it is easy to
attribute to him such a statement.

“When his native state joined the movement for
secession, which was opposed by Lee, and the time
arrived for him to make the great decision of his life,
the decision of the issue rested upon the matter of
duty. An appeal was made to him not to resign
from the U. S. Army but he made reply: ‘I am com-
pelled to. I cannot consult my own feelings in the
matter.’

“The obligation to duty was shown by him in
striking form in the phrase addressed to his son: ‘1
know that wherever you will be placed you will do
your duty. That is all the pleasure, all the comfort,
all the glory we can enjoy in this world.’

“And when the final scene was enacted in the great
struggle and the surrender was made, the perform-
ance of duty was again in mind, when, in taking leave
of his faithful soldiers, he paid to them this tribute:

“*You will take with you the satisfaction that pro-
ceeds from the consciousness of duty faithfully
performed.’

“And at another time in speaking of his decision he
said :

“*T did only what my duty demanded. I could
have taken no other course without dishonor.’

“It is generally true that in the life of a great man
some outstanding event typically and vividly portrays
the finer and nobler virtues of his character and serves
to bring them out in bold relief. The one event in
Lee’s life which serves this purpose above any other
is that one when he came to the decision as to whether
he should fight under the flag of the Union or under
the banner of his native state. He was then 54 years
of age. Thirty-two of those years had been spent in
the service of his country. He held high command in
the Army of the United States. And to him was prof-
fered the supreme command of the United States
Army in the field—but Virginia, the state of his na-
tivity, the home of his ancestors, had decided to cast
her lot upon the side of the Confederacy. On the
one side there was the power and resources of the
Union, there was preferment in his chosen profes-
sion, there was the lure of power and position with

ee
~v

 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
    
 
 
  
   
  
   
 
  
   
   
  
  
   
  
 
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
   

“a

all the odds for success favoring the Union; whtil
the other side was Virginia and the Confeder
weak in numbers and resources, with the prospec
defeat and failure awaiting them at the end but y
Virginia were the people of his own flesh and bic
and everything that he loved best. =
“Faced with the issue there was no vaci tion
irresolution on his part—and he met it alone ry
afraid; he cast his lot with Virginia and his |
people.
“When the time came for writing his letter —
resignation from the United States Army we ;
told that he asked to be let alone for a time and ir ;
upper room, guided by Divine Providence and |
own conscience, he fought the issue to a conclusi
and returned to his wife and calmly announced t
the matter had been settled and the letter of resigy
tion had been written. a
“From every viewpoint this decision was mark
by the virtues of goodness and greatness. It Yy
marked by an impelling devotion to duty. The o
standing and controlling motive was to do his lu
as he saw it. And from its performance he wov
not be swerved by thought of personal ambition 3
preferment or: reward. Z
“Loyalty and devotion to the state of his natiy
and to his own people was also an impelling noti
He did not, and could not, believe that duty ri
guaged could require him to draw his sword agait
Virginia and his own people. 3
“The decision was marked by a spirit of unselfis
ness rarely equalled and never excelled in the lives «
our great men. He sacrificed the position which, ; é
ter years of service he had earned in a_ service” 7
which in his own words he had devoted the best y
of his life, and also the promise of preferment ai
power that was alluring to personal ambition on evet
hand; and took his place with his own people to fe
low the waning fortunes of Virginia and the Son
federacy. He most surely knew of the fearful od
against which the Confederacy would be force
contend. a
“And running throughout the whole situation ther
was an element of deep pathos for General Lee.
was opposed to secession. He was opposed to slav-
ery. He knew that if the Confederacy triumphed the:
institution of slavery would in all probability con-
tinue longer than if success came to Northern arms. —
But these beliefs played no part in controlling Is
action after the decision was made. They only @ ry
phasize and extol the nobility and greatness of <
character. aa
“And after the many criticisms directed at General
Lee for his course of action in resigning _from the
United States Army how gratifying it is to the peo-
ple of the South to receive from the lips of that dis-

ae

VES

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

Judge Clifton A. Woodrum, ‘08

Three of Virginia’s representatives in Congress
are Washington and Lee alumni. One is Hon. Harry
st, George Tucker, ’77, (See ALUMNI Macazine,
January, 1927). Another is Hon. George C. Peery,
whose career is reviewed elsewhere in this issue.
The third is Judge Clifton A. Woodrum, ‘08, of Roa-
noke, Va. He has ably served his district in this ca-
pacity since 1922.

Mr. Woodrum was born at Roanoke, Virginia,
April 27, 1887; educated in the public schools of
Roanoke and studied Law at Washington and Lee.
and was licensed to practice June 19, 1908. He lo-
cated in Roanoke and in 1917 was elected Common-
wealth’s Attorney; serving in that capacity until Au-
gust 1919; when he was unanimously chosen to oc-
cupy the bench of the corporation court of the city of
Roanoke, where he presided until April 10, 1922.
when he resigned and entered the race for Congress
against James P. Woods; re-elected to the sixty-
ninth Congress; re-elected to the seventieth Con-
gress without opposition.

Mr. Woodrum was married to Miss Lena Han-
cock of Bedford County in 1905. They have two
children, Clifton A., Jr.. and Martha Anne. He
plans for his son to enter the Washington and Lee
Law School. Mr. Woodrum is a member of Green
Memorial Methodist Church of Roanoke; thirty-
third degree Mason; past potentate Kazim Temple,
A. A. O. N. M. S., and member of various other fra-
ternal orders.

eee

 

tinguished man of the North, Charles Francis Adams,
the tribute:

cee

I hope I should have been filial and unselfish
enough myself to have done as Lee did.’

“Not only was Lee great as a soldier. He was also
great as a private citizen. The fine virtues and noble
qualities that marked his life as a soldier continued in
his life as a private citizen. He refused to consider
an offer of political preferment because he feared his
acceptance of such would increase or help to keep
alive hostility to his state.

“He declined business offers which would have in-
sured ease and luxury without work or substantial ef-
fort on his part. He saw beckoning to him a vision
of service as President of Washington College in
which he could devote his remaining years to the
education of the young men of the South and to the
rebuilding of the Nation. Duty seemed to call him to
this unselfish service and as he had responded to the
call of duty in the past so did he respond again.

‘And so, too, this second decision in the life of Lee

 

Jupce C. A. Wooprum, ‘08

“Lawyer, Judge, Congressman”

 

 

was a great decision and typically portrays the virtues
of his noble character. It differs from the first in the
fact that the first led to defeat: while the second has
led to success that has grown and widened throughout
the years.

“In the passing moment we cannot find time to
speak of all the virtues of his lofty character—but
we, as alumni of Washington and Lee who have been
privileged for a season to breathe the atmosphere and
feel the spirit of the immortal Lee, may from time to
time in this busy materialistic age turn aside to re-
count some of his many virtues and seek new inspira-
tion to a life of unselfish service.”

 

Earl A. Cadmus, ’26, was elected the first presi-
dent of the newly formed Junior Civic Club of Nor-
folk, Va. The club intends to enlist the interest of
all young men in the Tidewater district in the various
civic undertakings which a club is apt to undertake.
The Y. M. C. A. is co-operating with this young or-
ganization, offering its facilities as a meeting place
for the present.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Harry E. Moran, || 4

An article in the American Coal Journal, New
York City, gives an interesting sketch of Harry
Moran, which is substantially as follows:

We cannot recall any young man who has hit the
same terrific pace of success in every phase of the
coal industry as Harry Moran.

Mr. Moran attributes his success to his determina-
tion that the problems of business life must be at-
tacked in much the same manner as those of the ath-
letic field; that these problems should be met in a
sportsmanlike manner because the world loves a
fighter and people in general are well disposed to-
ward those who, in spite of their unfortunate fail-
ures, refuse to take the count and are determined to
make good. He believes that in the rapid pace that
is set today in business as well as athletics success
comes to the man who drives himself rather than to
him who is driven, and that the great lessons of suc-
cess in the business world are learned on the ath-
letic fields of our colleges and universities. In the
athletic world you do not find a man giving as an ex-
cuse for his failure the fact that his opponent would
not lie down and let him win. Most of the young
men who fail in business spend their time offering
excuses that they did not have a chance when the
real reason for failure is that they did not drive them-
selves hard enough.

Mr. Moran attended Washington and Lee Un-
versity at Lexington, Virginia and his athletic record
shows that he was one of the greatest college pitchers
who ever stood in the center of a diamond, and some
of his baseball records in college have not yet been
surpassed. He left college in 1914 playing profes-
sional baseball with Detroit and Pittsburgh for four
years, when he entered the Great World War.

After the War Mr. Moran located in New York hav-

 

Harry E. Moran, ‘14
Hit Terrific Pace of Success

 

 

 

ing charge of export coal to foreign countries han- —
dled by the Lake and Export Coal Corporation of ©
New York. He is now President of the Lake and
Export Coal Corporation of N. Y. and also President —
of the Leccony Smokeless Coal Company. ‘The last ~
named company has one of the largest and most ©
modern mines in southern West Virginia. Mr. ~
Moran is also interested in several other mines in the —
same district. He is Director in the Fuel Distribu-
tors, Inc., at Cleveland. Ohio, and the Maine Coal ~
and Dock Company at Buckport, Maine, the latter ~
being one of the largest coal handling docks in New —
England. 4

     
    
    
   
  

———

 

HONOR SYSTEM TRIAL LASTS SHORT
TIME

The public trial of a W. & L. student—a member
of the Freshman class—for violation of the University
honor system was scheduled to take place in the Lee
Chapel. The trial was, however, cut short by the de-
fendant’s sudden decision to plead guilty to the charges
presented against him.

The student was accused of having copied four
pages verbatim from the “Encyclopedia Brittanica”
and of having handed in this material as a part of his
English term-essay. At first, the student pleaded “not
guilty.” After eighteen of the numerous students ve-
nired for jury service had been selected as possible
jurors, however, the defendant leirned that further
evidence had been obtained against him. Upon being

 

informed of this fact, he decided to change his plea to”
“‘suilty.” The case was then distnissed, the accused —
man being required to withdraw from the University.

L. S. Stemmons, of Dallas, Texas, served as judge
for the case. G. D. Varney, of South Berwick, Maine, ~
and G. F. Maynard, Jr., of Clarksdale, Miss., were the —
prosecuting lawyers; F. B. Waters, of Onley, Virginia,
and W. G. Sale, of Richmond, were the defendant's —
lawyers. All five of these men are seniors in the
Washington and Lee law school.

Two other public trials for breaches of the honor ~
system have been held here during the past five yeatS; ~
one taking place in 1922-23 and the other in 1924-25.
The first of these trials terminated in an acquittal

The second one, on the other hand, resulted im the
conviction of the accused student.

  
  

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

L. C. Witten, °10

A man armed with an LL.B. degree from Wash-
ington and Lee, especially when endorsed with “Daddy
Burks” beloved signature, 1s supposed to be sitting
on top of the world. A dub golfer may blame his
troubles on his clubs, on the course, or on the caddy,
but every true son of Washington and Lee has to
realize that there is nothing wrong with the degree
itself. The surprising thing of it is that so many of
us did get degrees prior to 1912. Mine happened
along in 1910 and I have been told that while a few
of the “Mike Denny Gang” did manage to sneak back
into College, there would not have been any College
if the post-Denny days had depended upon the same
outfit that arrogated unto itself the title of College-
But to get back to that LL.B.
Degree! I[ carried it with me to Princeton, West

men-par-excellence.

Virginia, in the summer of 1910. It did not seem to
make much of a hit in that community, so I went
further West to Huntington, landing at that pro-
gressive river port in the following September.

1 always will think that Washington and Lee might
have had occasion to be proud of me as an “Attorney
and Counsellor-at-Law’—(that was the way I de-
scribed myself on my letterheads) if I had not. at-
tempted to resume relations with Virginia too early
after the litthe Lambeth Field argument on Novem-
ber 9, 1907. I was always strong for continuing to
play Virginia, and having a pretty good idea of my
own importance, it seemed to me that a good way to
go about it was to start to practice Law with a Vir-
ginia alumnus, who at least did not neglect himself
when he got to discussing the assets I would acquire
by association with him. Possibly we were. still
thinking about the 1907 affair, because the final score
in less than a year was about as bad against me as
they ran up at Charlottesville last November. Never-
theless, I always will believe that a certain “screen
play” deal by my erst-while Virginia partner really
resulted in a touch-down for me!

In 1913 I did succumb to the temptation to go back
home, but stayed only a short while and then went to
Detroit for the Connecticut Mutual. After two years
there it became very evident that there was some rea-
son for the Civil War, and I felt that if it was to my
best interest to continue to represent a good Yankee
Company | had better do it as near home as possible.

Fortunately for me, I made friends with some
mighty fine Yankees at Springfield, Massachusetts,
and on September Ist, 1915, came to Cincinnati as
Genera] Agent for that splendid institution, the
Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company. I
have, with their co-operation, developed a good busi-
ness in Southern Ohio. We are doing better every

 

L. C. Wirren, 10

Made Friends with Yankees

 

year than the year before, and have quite a number of
capable College men in our Agency.

Cincinnati has many of the aspects of a Southern
city and I made some mighty good friends here.
Without attempting to give a full list of our alumni,
we have as very successful men, Colonel Edward
Colston, one of the few Confederate soldiers still in
the active practice of the Law; Monte J. Goble, vice-
President of the Fifth-Third-Union Trust; Dr. C.
Tabb Pearce, a leading physician; Walter A. Mce-
Donald, one of the leaders in the printing business ;
Clyde Hoge (responsible for the touchdown which
beat Virginia in 1907) a successful Consulting Engi-
neer, and Jack Dillon who is making good as a broker.

We are not able to turn many young men towards
the gates at Lexington, but our interest is as keen as
ever. Some of us, at least, will be at Wilson Field
pulling for a victory over Virginia next fall.

Mrs. Witten and I live at “Spring Hill,” Tusculum
Heights, on the outskirts of the city with our two
little boys, and the welcome sign always hangs out
for anybody identified with Washington and Lee.
Come to see us!

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Alumni Letters

January 18, 1927,
Dear Sir:

Of course | want the ALUMNI MaGazINeE and en-
closed is my check for $2.50 for the next year’s sub-
scription.

The Directory is a splendid piece of work and far
more complete than I ever anticipated—I wouldn't
take ten times the price for mine. It has thoroughly
convinced me that the alumni do co-operate with
their agents (the officers of the Alumni Association)
and that these agents are untiring in their efforts to
produce nothing short of the best. It is only thru
this same co-operation on the part of the alumni that
the present high standard of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
can be raised or even maintained. Any time I can be
of service to you in securing news or information for
the MAGAZINE in this section I urge you to call upon
me.

Very truly yours,
J. B. Hoke, ’21.

Denton, Tex..,
February 5, 1927.
Dear Sir:

I enclose my ¢heck for $4.00 for subscription to
the ALUMNI MaGazine for two years.

The Lee’s Birthday number was appreciated very
much and enjoyed by me, though reading it and the
Alumni Directory commingle some sadness with my
joy. So many of the “boys” have passed over the
river. I wish to keep in touch as closely as I may
with the splendid men who were boys with me at
Washington and Lee.

Sincerely yours, _
J. W. Sutrivan, 791.
Lemon City Station,
Miami, Fla.
Dear Mr. Penick:

As I write this I am giving an examination and at
the end of each paper is the W. & L. pledge. My
pupils respect it, and although I am the only teacher
requiring it, I can see results. It is just one more
thing that makes Washington and Lee dear to me.
This is the only high school in Coral Gables (Ponce
de Leon) and we have adopted the tune of the
“Swing” for our school song.

This is surely a wonderful place. I have been teach-
ing better than three months and have needed an over-
coat twice and have come in the rain once.

I see Brett quite often, as well as a bunch of W. &
L. men.

Sincerely yours,
Bruce F. Gannaway, ’25.

    
 
 
  
   
  
  
  
  
  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
   
  
   
   
  
  
 
 
  
  

Dear Kemp: _—*
Thanks greatly for your letter. By it I learn
you too are of the journalism fold. For your spl i
task and position in our field, [| congratulate y,
For your choice of a method of meeting fame a
fortune, I commiserate and sympathize. ‘i
Pardon if I become philosophical.—The faseir
of the work long since has enwrapped me and blind
my eyes to wealth, or its possibility. My ambit;
now is but to be allowed to continue to do my best
the hope that it will continue to be good enough, |
gather consolation from the lines of Bobbie Burns t )
“the honest man tho e’er sae poor, is king o’ man for
that.” 3
You compliment me very much by your reque
for a photo and a chronological sketch of my acti
ties since leaving Washington and Lee. I am sen
ing under separate cover the outline you desire anc
“squeegee,” or flat screen photo made for publicati
reproduction. :
It would please me to hear from you some time r
better still to see you. Be sure that I am notified
you happen up this way. I have neither car nor gi
this time to entertain you but the AP news
usually can furnish a murder mystery.
With very best wishes for your own success af
happiness and the success of the ALUMNI MaGazn
Sincerely, %
Marion BisHor ALEXANDER, '21,

in,

Lancaster, S. C.

Dear Sir: 4
In compliance with your request, I enclose a brie
news item concerning myself and work. I thank y
for the opportunity. I wish I could subscribe to the
ALUMNI MaGazINE and everything else that goes ou
from Washington and Lee University. %
Lam 100% Washington and Lee University, literally
devour everything W. and L. University that fal
into my hands. I rejoice at her every success anc
mourn over her every reverse. .
I do not understand the slump in the games
football with the University of Virginia. I note wi
pride the rating in all-American company that
given to Rauber. Palmer did not seem to shine hi is
vear as he did last. A
With best wishes and three cheers for Washington
and Lee University, I am 4
Faithfully yours, : a

R. W. JorLInem 93.

we
©

Walter C. Preston, °15, is Research Chemist with
the Proctor and Gamble Company, of Ivorydale.

Ohio.

“4
z

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“Bob” Dow, °1 2, Attorney General

Lawyer, cattleman, politician, “Bob” Dow, 712, is
now Attorney General of the State of New Mexico.
He was victorious in the November elections by a
plurality of 13 votes out of about 116,000 votes cast.
He was one of the three Democrats elected to State
office in this election, his party’s candidate for gov-
ernor and eight other democratic candidates being
defeated.

After receiving his law degree at Washington and
Lee Bob returned to Roswell, New Mexico, to prac-
tice Law. Ranching and Politics soon claimed him.
He served as a member of the State legislature in 1915
and 1916. He was district attorney of the Fifth Ju-
dicial District of New Mexico for four years begin-
ning January 1, 1917. Then he went back to his
ranch near Carlsbad, New Mexico, which claimed his
time until he entered the race for Attorney General
last fall.

Bob says that business may bring him eastward
this spring, and if so he will pay a visit to the
campus and to his former friends in Lexington. The
welcome sign will be hanging out for him.

“BOB” McDOUGLE, 719, HEADS STATE
LEGION

At the annual convention of the American Legion,
Department of West Virginia, on September 11,
1926, R. B. MecDougle, ‘19, of Parkersburg, was
elected Department Commander for the year 1927.
Proven able in law, politics and war, “Bob” is well
qualified for the high post to which he has_ been
elected.

EDWARD A. O’NEAL, ’98

Kdward A. O’Neal was born on a_ farm near
Florence, Alabama, on October 26, 1875; educated at
private schools and at the State Normal School at
Florence, Alabama, and graduated from Washington
and lee University with the A.B. degree in 1898, tak-
ing Law one year. He was president of the final ball,
played on the Varsity ball team two years and rowed

 

on the Harry Lee boat crew; and was a member of
the Phi Kappa Psi fraternity.

After leaving college Mr. O’Neal operated a di-
versified farm two miles west of Florence from 1898
to 1923. When the Alabama Farm Bureau Federa-
ration was organized he was made vice-president and
also served as president of the Lauderdale County
Farm Bureau for two years. He has been president
of the Alabama Farm Bureau Federation since 1923
and now resides in Montgomery, the central head-
quarters of the Farm Bureau. In 1923 he was also

 

 

 

Born Dow, °12

Attorney General of New Me-ico

elected to the board of directors of the American
Farm Bureau Ifederation and has been a member ever
since. He was elected vice-president of this Federa-
tion in 1924 and was re-elected in 1925.
chairman of their legislative committee.

He 1s also

 

WORK RESUMED ON TROUBADOUR PLAY

Work on “Stolen Sweets.” the Troubadour play
definitely resumed with a few rearrangements and
slight changes in the cast and chorus. It was decided
that the trip which was planned for the past Christmas
would be taken during Easter week. The route has
not yet been decided. Prior to the Easter trip the play
will be given in Lynchburg and in Staunton.

President FE. H. Miller says that the production is
progressing very well and expressed his confidence in
its favorable reception by the public.

BIRTHS

Matthew White Paxton, III, arrived February
26th to make his home with Mr. and Mrs. Matthew
White Paxton, IT.

Mr. and Mrs. Walter \ergil Ross announced the
arrival of a little daughter, Katharine K. Ross, on
February 2nd.

Mr. and Mrs. James Thomas announced the ar-
rival of a son in February. Mrs. Thomas was before
her marriage Miss Kate Howe, sister of Otis and
Bob Howe.

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

OBITUARY

John F. Jenkins, ’68, died at his home in Natchez,
Mississippi, the latter part of February.

Judge Norman G. Kittrell, 68, one of Texas’ fore-
most citizens, died at his home in Houston, Texas,
on Sunday, January 23rd, at the age of 78 years.
While attending the legislature at Austin, Judge Kit-
trell suffered an attack of bronchitis and was forced
to return to his home. He appeared to be slowly re-
gaining his health when pneumonia set in and his
condition grew rapidly worse until the end came.

Judge Kittrell not only has been regarded as one
of the leading members of the legal fraternity, but as
an able writer on political and religious subjects.
His editorials and his “Layman’s Sermons,” appear-
ing for more than twenty years in the Houston
Chronicle, have been read by thousands of persons
over the state.

Edwin Theodore Dumble, ’74, of Houston, Texas,
noted geologist. died on January 27th in Nice,
France, at the age of 74 years. He went abroad last
fall in the hope of improving his health.

Judge John Randolph Tucker, ’75, died December
18th at his home at Bedford. He was a nephew of
Hon. John Randolph Tucker of Lexington, and after
his graduation at Washington and Lee, he practiced
law in Bedford. He was for a time circuit judge of the
Bedford circuit and filled the position of federal dis-
trict judge of Alaska from 1913 to 1917 under ap-
pointment of President Wilson. A son of Dr. David
Hunter Tucker of Virginia, he was born in Philadel-
phia on August 13, 1854.

Edgar Doak Moore, ’80, died at his home on Lee
Avenue, February 4th.

Albert H. Alford, ’83, managing editor of the
Lewiston Tribune (Idaho), died on January 25th.
He formerly held the distinction of being Speaker of
the Idaho Legislature.

Rev. L. H. Paul, ’83, for nearly twenty years pas-
tor of the Clifton Forge Presbyterian church, died
on February 2nd, following an illness of influenza.

James J. White, °17, died March Sth at Walter Reid
Hospital in Washington, D. C. He was buried at
Lexington, March 10th. While in France during the
World War, “Jim” suffered an attack of influenza and
was not given proper attention. He was transferred
from one hospital to another and subsequently sent
home in a terrible condition. In spite of repeated
operations in an effort to resore his health, Jim grad-
ually grew worse and for some time his family and
friends have known that his case was hopeless. Last
spring and summer, he was engaged in the real estate
business in Ashville, N. C., but in the fall he suffered
a relapse from which he never rallied.

MISS CHARLOTTE DENNY MEETs
TRAGIC DEATH 4

my

  
   
   
 
   
 
  
  
  
   
   
   
    
  
   
    
 
  

A letter from Dr. George H. Denny, formerly pre
dent of W. & L. and now president of the Univere
of Alabama, said: ‘4

“Doubtless vou have heard by this time of the
accident to Charlotte two weeks ago. January 14th,
as she was retiring, her clothing caught fire on a oa
heater in her room at the home of Judge and Mrs. }
O. Sykes, of Jackson, Mississippi, where Charlot
was serving as chief supervisor of music in the pubij
school system of that city. For two weeks we ha
heen hoping that she would recover. Day and nig
her mother was at her bedside. There were ty
nurses and three doctors. However, on Wednesda
morning of January 26th, a sudden turn for the we
was reported and by night she had passed away. —
brought her home Wednesday night and laid her t
rest the next afternoon in Evergreen cemetery in }
shadow of our home. a

“Nothing but the unceasing kindness of very \
friends has sustained us in this tragic experience. :
have received literally hundreds of letters and tele
grams. ‘The entire community has shown a most re
markable lovalty and affection. I have never eet
such a magnificent showing of floral tributes in m:
life, and they have come from every direction.” |

 

MRS. ADDISON HOGUE DIES IN
WASHINGTON 4

Mrs. Emily Hogue, wife of Professor Addison
Hogue, died recently in Washington. Her death oe-
curred at the home of her sister, Mrs. A. M. MeKe
way with whom Professor and Mrs. Hogue had for
some time lived. She had for several years been if
very infirm health. +

Professor and Mrs. Hogue made their home in
Lexington for twenty-seven years, from 1893 to 1920.
during which time the former fillel the chair of pro
fessor of Greek at Washington and Lee. They were
followed by the good wishes of many friends wher
on the retirement of Professor Hogue from the fz )
of the University they moved to Washington to li
with Mrs. McKelway. The news of Mrs. Hogue’s
death was received here with many expressions of
gret.

Mr. J. Frank Rushton, father of W. J. Rush on,
‘21, J. F. Rushton, Jr., ’23, and R. A. Rushton, 24,
died in Birmingham on Monday, March 7th. He hag”
always been a loyal supporter and a liberal benefactom
of Washington and Lee.

 

---

Fred Keller, °12, is Superintendent of Ct y
Schools, Jonesboro, Arkansas. |

 

 

oy —

7) =_—" 7 —

a eo

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

Personals

Hon. William A. Anderson, ’61, and his daughter,
Miss Judith Anderson, are visiting in Southern
Pines, N. C., where they expect to be until April.

Edward Colston, ’67, of Cincinnati, Ohio, repre-
sented Washington and Lee at the installation of
Rev. Rk. Ames Montgomery as President of Lane
Theological Seminary in Cincinnati on February 16th.

John P. Walker, 95, of Boise, Idaho, writes: “As
District Cadastral Engineer I am seeing that the sur-
veys of the Public Lands in Idaho and Washington

. are continuing along proper lines. My office is in the

Federal Building, and the latch string is outside at
907 N. 17th Street. I can spin yarns about surveys
from the Mexican border to the Yukon and am still
the youngest old man of the class of 95. Touring
alumni, by ‘the Old Oregon Trail’ are requested to
call.”

R. O. Huff, ’99, is located at 318 Arden Grove,
San Antonio, Texas.

J. R. Tucker, ’02, who formed partnership with
Sherlock Bronson, Assistant General Attorney of the
C. & O. Railway, Richmond, Virginia, in June, 1925,
under the firm name of Tucker & Bronson, is Special
Assistant. Attorney General of U. S. in case of U.S.
vs. Rinehart and Dennis.

Thomas Ball, ’03, is located in the Citizens Bank
juilding, of Los Angeles, California.

Rev. H. S. Osborn, ’04, of Tappahannock, Vir-
ginia, writes: “I feel that I have not cooperated
with you as I should have in answering your corre-
spondence. I am serving my fifth year as Rector of
two county Episcopal churches and teaching Bible at
St. Margaret’s School. W. and L. is still and always
will be dear to my heart.”

A. E. Griffith, 07, is located at Big Stone Gap, Va.

J. M. O’Brien, ’08, located in Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia, writes us the following, among his achieve-
ments: “A wife, four youngsters (three of them
boys for W. and L.), a fine home and enough gro-
ceries for all including a bull dog and a kitten who
are mutual friends. Haven't had time for much
else.”

S. N. Hoshour, ’0), is located at 101 Oakenwold
Street, Staunton, Virginia.

Harold M. Leach, ‘09, of Greenville, N. C., writes
us: “IT have been in the mission work in the Presby-
terian Church in the United States (Southern Pres-
byterian) for six years and greatly enjoyed it. My
work is among rural people entirely.”

Jasper J. Barret, ’10, who was secretary to Dr.
Denny from 1906 to 1910, has been for the past thir-
teen years engaged in the practice of law at Astoria,
Oregon. After having made progress in his profes-
sion, he lost practically everything as a result of the

conflagration that wiped out the entire business sec-
tion of the city in December, 1922. Approximately
forty city blocks, constituting the entire business sec-
tion of the city, were destroyed. He writes us that
the city is being rebuilt right along, and that some of
these days he hopes to be able to recoup his losses.
He also writes: “I ‘receive the University bulletins
once in a while, and am pleased to note that she con-
tinues to forge ahead along conservative but healthy
lines. I note with some interest the football scores
made by the Generals each season, which appear in
our daily newspapers.”

Lloyd R. Craighill, ‘12, who is located in Nan-
chang, Ki, China, sends us a communication which
contains the following: ““To get back into the Lex-
ington atmosphere once more, and to meet many old
triends through the kindly offices of the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE was a most welcome experience. Being
here at the temporary headquarters of the Nationalist
Government and of the Revolutionary Army is an in-
tensely interesting business but not always exactly
restful. The right wing of the Peoples Party or
Kuomingtang, which is in control here is guarantee-
ing religious freedom, but if the left wing gets in
control as it has in the adjoining province it will go
hard with Christianity. If the radicals don’t drive
us out before the next issue of the MAGAZINE arrives
I shall enjoy another hour of diversion to a more
peaceful scene.”’

Thomas McP. Glasgow, °12-'16, of Charlotte, N.
C., recently visited his father, Mr. Frank T. Glasgow,
who has been ill for some time at his home in Lex-
ington.

Captain George B. Campbell, ’14, who arrived in
Manila, on April 18, 1925, took up the duty of As-
sistant Department Judge Advocate at that time.
His term expires April 18, 1928.

Bill Raftery, "15, at a meeting of the American As-
sociation of Football Coaches in New York held re-
cently, was appointed chairman of the third district,
comprising Virginia, Maryland, North Carolina and
other Southeastern states. The duties will entail
careful reports to the association on football condi-
tions in this section.

Edwin D. Smathers, ’15, is the Refrigeration En-
gineer for a corporation in Louisville, Kentucky,
handling Frigidair, electric refrigeration.

James A. Lee, 17, is a member of the Chemical
Research staff of the Bell Telephone Laboratories, in
charge of the development of electrical insulation.

William J. Cox, °18, after spending two -years in
New Mexico, has regained his health and has ac-
cepted a position as assistant in the engineering de-
partment at Yale University.

   

BLACKSTONE O'Henry

RovuseveLt Mount Royat RapDIsson
Chicago Greensboro, N. C

New York Montreal Minneapolis

  
   
  
  
 
   
   
 
 
   
   

 

WILLARD

ioe | MAIN FEATURES OF THE INTERCOLLEGIA
ALUMNI HOTEL MOVEMENT

 

Conon sno |
Interested alumni can secure from a clerk at the desk of each Inter-

collegiate Alumni Hotel an information leaflet which describes in
detail the Intercollegiate Alumni Hore] movement.

 

oni At each Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel there will be maintained a card
index of the names of all the resident alumni of all the participating
institutions. This will be of especial benefit to traveling alumni in
locating classmates and friends.

 

The current issues of the alumni publications of all the participating
institutions will be on file at each Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel.

Wotrorp
Danville, Ill.

Reservation cards will be available at the clerk’s desk in each des-
ignated hotel and at the alumni office in each college or university. — :

 

These reservation cards will serve as a great convenience to travel- |
Net House

Columbus lers in securing advance accommodations.

The managers of all Intercollegiate Alumni Hotels are prepared to ©
cooperate with individual alumni to the fullest extent and are also

 

prepared to assist in the creation of new local alumni associations
Berkeley, Calif . and in the development and extension of the activities of those already —
formed.

 

Urpana-Lincotn
Urbana, Ill

 

ScHENLEY CaLirorNiaNn Saat Pavutr MULTNOMAH Parace P
, ! : once pe Leon
Pittsburgh Fresno St Paul Portland, Ore San Francisco Miami

 

-—

wg VANDERBILT Sr. James

 

—— “<< =“ ©

Wotverine
N.C. San Dicgo New York Syracuse Detroit

,
. Waxporr-Astorta ONONDAGA

Ashe’ lle,

THE PARTICIPATING COLLEGES:

The alumni organizations of the following colleges and universities arc
participants in the Intercollegiate Alumni Hotel movement:

 

Akron Goucher New York University Stevens Institute
Alabama Harvard North Carolina Texas A. and M.
Amherst Illinois North Dakota Texas
Bates Indiana Northwestern Union
Beloit Iowa State College Oberlin Vanderbilt
; Brown James Milliken Occidental Vassar
Bucknell Kansas Teachers’ Coll. Ohio State Vermont
. Bryn Mawr Kansas Ohio Wesleyan Virginia
; California Lake Erie Oklahoma Washington and Lee
: Carnegie Institute Lehigh Oregon Washington State
Case Schoo! Louisiana Oregon State Washington
; eerage Maine Penn State Wellesley
City College New York M.I.T. Pennsylvania Wesleyan College
; Colgate Michigan State Purdue Wesleyan University
Colorado School Mines Michigan Radcliffe Western Reserve
Colorado Mills Rollins Whitman
Columbia Minnesota Rutgers Williams
Cornell Missouri Smith Wisconsin
Cumberland Montana South Dakota Wooster
Emory Mount Holyoke Southern California Worcester Poly. Inst.
Georgia Nebraska Stanford Yale

INTERCOLLEGIATE ALUMNI HOTELS:

Roosevelt, New York
Waldorf-Astoria, New York
University Center,* New York
Copley-Plaza, Boston
University Center,* Boston
Blackstone, Chicago
Windermere, Chicago
University Center,* Chicago
Benjamin Franklin, Philadelphia
Willard, Washington
Radisson, Minneapolis
Biltmore, Los Angeles

Palace, San Francisco
Olympic, Seattle

Seneca, Rochester

Claremont, Berkeley

*To be built in 1926-27

 

C MARLOTTE

Charlotte, N. eS:

 

_ Sweraton
High Point, N. C.

Onondaga, Syracuse

Sinton, Cincinnati
Wolverine, Detroit
Multnomah, Portland, Ore.
Sacramento, Sacramento
Californian, Fresno

Lincoln, Lincoln, Nebr.
Oakland, Oakland, Cal.
Lycoming, Williamsport, Pa.
Mount Royal, Montreal
King Edward, Toronto
Coronado, St. Louts
Bethlehem, Bethlehem, Pa.
Urbana-Lincoln, Urbana, III.
Saint Paul, Sc. Paul
Savannah, Savannah, Ga.

 

—~

SINTON
Cincinnati

 

KinG Epwarp

Toronto Bethlehem, Pa

Schenley, Pittsburgh

Wolford, Danville, I].

Neil House, Columbus

Pere Marquette, Peoria

Southern, Baltimore

St. James, San Diego

Park, Madison

O'Henry, Greensboro, N. ..

Sheraton, High Point, N. C.

Charlotte, Charlotte, N. C.

- Vanderbilt, Asheville
N. C.

Francis Marion, Charleston,

Ponce de Leon, Miami

  
     
     
 

 
   

7 ats
Ass .
Tk

(i

Berucenem

-

Bitrmore
Los Angeles

LycomIno
Williamsport, Pa

      

    

; SAVANNAH

 

Benjamin Franxus

Philadelphia

 

Corcey-Praza

Boston
es

~
\
~ —s «
~

s

Lincoun
Lincoln, Neb

 

OvyMpic
Seattle

 

SscRAMENTO
Sacramento

 

Park

 

SouTHERN
Baltimore

Savannah, Ga

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

Herbert G. Peters, Jr., °17, associated with the
firm of Peters, Lavinder and Peters, is president of
the Bristol Lions Club, on Board of Directors of the
Bristol Country Club and chairman of the Social
Committee of the Board of Directors, Interstate
Building and Loan Association, of Bristol, Virginia.
He writes: “I wish to congratulate you and the
Alumni, Inc., on the very excellent magazine that you
have been issuing. The last edition was entertaining,
instructive and inspiring.”

W. C. Giles, 18, officiates at all football games at
the University of Kansas.

John L. McChord, °18, formerly chief counsel of
the Cleveland Automobile Club, is now associated
with the firm of Calfee, Fogg & White, 308 Euclid
Avenue Building, Cleveland, Ohio.

Harry E. Handley, °19, after receiving the degree
of Doctor of Medicine at Johns Hopkins University,
went to Panama Canal Zone for two and a half years
where he was District Physician, and he is now again
in Baltimore on the Pediatric Staff of the Johns Hop-
kins Hospital. His interests now include a wife and
baby, both of whom, he writes, are loyal to the White
and Blue.

George ‘I. Madison, *19, has recently been elected
President of the Bastrop State Bank, of Bastrop,
Louisiana.

R. D. Hummel, °20, of 2725 FE. Jefferson Street,
Detroit, Michigan, writes us, “I enjoy the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE very much. It was much needed and 1s
quite satisfactory.”

W. F. Myers, °20, is with the Chase National
Bank, 25 Broadway, New York City. For some time
he was engaged in foreign work for this bank, lo-
cated at Cristobal, Canal Zone.

John Bell, ’21, is associated with the law firm of
Knight, Thompson and Turner, of ‘Tampa, Florida.

Harry B. Burt, Jr.. ’21, writes as_ follows:
“Formed the ‘Good Humor’ Ice Cream Company of
Miami, Florida; built and started manufacturing
February 28, 1926; married Miss Fanny Cipperley,
of Youngston, Ohio, May 15, 1926. Withstood land
boom, freight embargoes and hurricanes. Permanent
home in the magic city.”

Mr. and Mrs. John V. Cogbill, ‘22, and children of
Chesterfield C. H., were recently the guests of Mrs.
John Loyall of Lexington.

Lewis Murphy Henry, ’22, is studying medicine at
the University of Tennessee.

Charles H. Miller, °22, is District Manager of the
Alabama Power Company, of Talladego, Ala.

William Rogers Clay, Jr., °23. is with the Bond
Department of the Security Trust Company, Lexing-
ton, Kentucky.

G. E. (“Ted”) Harris, ’23, of 122 East 76th Street,

   
  
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

New York City, writes us: “After
A.M. as a pastime while studying in Mr, RB,
Workshop at Harvard, I taught English one .
Brown; the next year I moved with the Work
the new million-dollar plant at Yale, and there
in the English department. Then I came
York because a producer promised to put on ¢
my plays. He is still promising. Meanwhi
sist Augustin Duncan in producing the plays of
people. As I know absolutely nothing about prc
ing, I get along very well. The theatrical life —
thermore, is no more insane than is the rest
life in New York; and I find too few sons of \
L.. in it. Those who pel excitement to fo .
cordially invited to come.’ ee
K. M. Patterson, ’23, is located in Lefors, Tex
H. B. and N. M. Gotten, ’24 and ’22, grady
from the University of Tennessee, medical
and are now internes in a Philadelphia —a i
Henry Winkelman Jones, '24, is located at —
Acres, R. F. D., No. 5, Memphis, Tenn.
Carter Lee, 24, w cs is practicing law —
father, Judge Lee of Rocky Mount, accompz nies
father to Lexington where they visited i
sister, Mrs. Mildred Lee Francis.
M. R. Bruin, Jr., ’25, is principal of high sc
Big Island, Virginia.
John S. Strahorn, Jr.,

a Ari

‘a

‘25. writes:

“Receive
‘ae
oy

 

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage REG ef
>:

 

HOME COMING ALU
See | a

GRAHAM & FATHER
For ;

Hats, Shoes and Socks

  

 

WEINBERG'’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing
SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere *

 

"a

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

p, degree from Harvard Law School in June, 1920,
and ain now instructor in Law at the University of
\rkansas, Fayetteville, Ark.”

Eugene K. Jackson, '26, has accepted a position with
the civil engineering department of the Pennsylvania
Railroad, with headquarters at Wheeling, West Va.

Hmmett W. McCorkle, Jr., ’26, is a student at Cor-
nell University.

Thomas ‘T. Moore, 26, is taking a special course
of study at Columbia University.

Charles E. Moser, ’26, of 55 Hanson Place, Brook-
lyn, N. Y., writes: “Left W. and L. at end of my
Sophomore year, June, 1924; enrolled at and gradu-
ated from Wharton School, University.of Pennsyl-
vania, June, 1926; working in Export Department of
Lawrence and Company, textile selling agents, 24
Thomas Street, New York City; training to be a com-
mercial traveller abroad. Hearty regards to my old
pals at W. and L. Sure would like to hear from any
getting up this way. W. and L. is still my Alma
Mater, Gentlemen!”

Eugene A. Nabors, ’26, is in the second year law
class of the School of Law at Yale University.

THE SHOOTING OF TWO STUDENTS AT
SALISBURY, N. C.

A belief that two Washington and Lee University
students planned to kill him caused C. C. Cranfield, of
Winston-Salem to shoot first and then flee from the
train on which the three were passengers, Cranfield
declared in explanation of flight from Salisbury where
the shooting occurred.

His explanation of the affair is that he “had been a
little off for the past two weeks” Mrs. Cranfield,
also a passenger on the train, denied that E. M. Streit
or N. R. Crozier bothered her with his attentions, as
her husband charged.

Streit, shot in the shoulder and jaw, left a hospital
in Salisbury in a few days, for his home in Birming-
ham, Ala.; Crozier, only slightly hurt, continued his
trip to Andalusia, Ala., after the shooting. The stu-
dents denied making approaches to Cranfield.

3 The shooting occurred in the railway station at
Salisbury, during the Christmas holidays. ‘Thinking
to make a purchase during a brief lay-over, the youths
dropped from the train, and made a break for a news
stand, only to be intercepted by Cranfield and felled by
bullets from his gun. The man then fled. He was
captured the next day by a negro who told police he
Was commanded at pistol point to furnish an_ auto-
mobile.

35

 

NICE PRINTING

at

COUNTY NEWS OFFICE

LEXINGTON, VA.

Fraternity Papers, Pamphlets, Stationery

COLLEGE AND FRATERNITY

STATIONERS

AND

PRINTERS

Office Equipment and Supplies

ROY AL DALTON

TYPEWRITERS ADDING MACHINES

SURBER
PUBLISHING CO.

CHARLOTTESVILLE, VA.

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

 

BRICK from GLASGOW

e

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or
the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple,
and yet combines that strength and beauty which
meets the requirements of both good taste and a thrifty
purse. Other materials have their merits and make their
appeal, but looking at the building problem on all sides,
no other material approaches face brick in the struc-
tural and artistic values it offers—permanence, com-
fort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You
owe it to yourself to look into this matter thoroughly.
You should discuss the matter with us before deciding.
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most
valuable and practical suggestions.

LOCHER & CO., Inc.

Brick Manufacturers and Wholesalers of Building
Materials

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Member American Face Brick Association

 

 

a? * >
rae eh Pee
A os *¢

“McCRUMS”

   
 

sail Ce ad

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ad ae

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS |
_OF WASHINGTON AND LEE |

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

 

Specialists in College Printing
EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers
Charlottesville, Va.

Service ;
Printers of The Alumni Magazine bE :

Quality

Reasonable ‘Prices — a

 

 

