 

 

 

Sl

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

OF

Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

dames De Hart
dead Coach

 

 

 

Vol. | JANUARY, 1925 No. 2
LAI XK Oe
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVER:
LEXINGTOB {| j VA
f

 

 

 

 

 

 

anne en oem eee eo ee sm ee

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This space is maintained for the benefit of alumni of all professions who wish to maintain business correspondence
or become correspondents with other alumni.

Rates upon application to the Alumni Secretary.

 

 

 

 

K. I. McKay, 04
R. W. Withers, ’05
M. B. Withers, ’10

McKAY AND WITHERS
ATTORNEYS AT Law
Tampa, Florida

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAwyYER

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 926-927: Robson-Prichard Building,
Huntington, West Virgima

VINCENT M. MILES

Member of Firm

Fort Smith,
Arkansas

Pryor AND MILEs
Attorneys at Law

PAUL D. BARNS
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Miami, Florida
Firm of Thompson, Barns & Thompson

 

New York Office:

STUART CHEVALIER, 07

MILLER AND CHEVALIER

61 Broadway

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT LAW
Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

L. H. CARLOCK
ATTORNEY AT LAW

LaFollette, Tennessee

 

General Civil Practice Throughout
Eastern Kentucky
BEN D. SMITH, ’14

MEMBER oF BEN V. SMITH AND SON,
Lawyers
Somerset, Kentucky

{
l
{

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
ACCOUNTANTS AND Avprrors
TAX Consultants
Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401 | Philadelphia

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT. LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virgina

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713
ATTORNEY AT LAW

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virgima

 

 

ALEX M. HITZ

ATTORNEY AT LAw

2:10 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlanta, Georgia

Compliments of the President of the
Alumni, Inc.

EK. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

 

CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN, 715

ATTORNEY AT LAW

Suite 479 Mills Building,

San Francisco, California

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DICE

Attorneys at Law

General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments

Associate Income Tax Specialists

1100 Investment Building,
Washington, D. C.

 

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., 10
David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN & TUCKER
LAW OFFICES

Commercial National Bank Building,

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

 

 

‘THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

E. P. DAVIS, President

General Headquarters for W. and L. Men

School Supplies, Books, Stationery, Athletic Goods, Haberdashery
Alumni Are Always Welcome

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager | R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

 

| THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY -
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
FE. C. Carrrey, President EK. T. Grawam, [ro Treasupe
VERBON FE. Kemp, Alumni Secretary, Editor

 

Application made for entry as second class matter at the post office, Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS
PAGE PAGE
EE a ee 4 Dean Campbell Prominent in Association of Col-
Victorious Generals, 1924. Louis S. Joel, ’24...... 2 MBS ee ee Va, ee 15
Mumemenee season. A. 4. Smiih................. 6. Alumnus Victorious in Northwest............... 16
Intelligence of Freshmen at W. and L. W. MW. J. L. Howe, Jr., Returns from Chihas fa 8 16
.. e 7: Edietalic ao. oa a eh ee ee 17
Student Body Progress. J.C, M OIVISON, TH 8 The Old Grad and Autumn. Grantland Rice...... 18
Mey Ord trom the President.................... 9 Famous “Old Grads”, 3 .. 2 19
Ms... eg. 9 Lee School of Journalism Will Open Next Fall.... 20
The Library. Blanche Prichard McCrum......... 10 J. N. Thomas, New Field wemertary: Gal sce at
Stuart Chevalier Has Varied Career............. 11 Davis. Alumni: Club: Report. 3,00 3 i ae oe
“Jim” Barker Successful in Automobile Business.. 11 Former W. and L,. Star Equals Grange’s Record. . 22
COM sO mitality.........,............. “Te Unpublished Letters of Clovis Moomaw.......... 23
Lafe Chafin Unhurt by Republican Land Slide.... 12 Troubadmaits. 2. Bie a 24
Dr. Ott at University of Alabama.............. 12 Social Fumetigtisg@ cio.) 8 as A 24
Meee wtyles in West Africa.............. 12 Tribute to Dr. Howerton. Thornton W haling..... 25
Young Alumnus Achieves Unique Honor........ 13 Wedding Bells... 32 yo. 5,58. se 20
Fred McWane Elected President Lynchburg Football Monograms Awarded. Laird V. Thomp-
ee 13 SO Mae eo VS algal s a OOS ees CO ar
Judge D. 1. Groner Eminent VS 14 A Porto Rian Tragedy a0 30
Dr. Smith Honored Be Trustesey ss oe. As Aa, 14 From Bob Ignico to Mercer Graham............ 31
Braden Vandeventer Prominent AWyel. Seg. bo Drawer 897 fic. 0, ee, Se 33
Ce

 

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S LIFE OF LEE, prepaid $2.50
(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager | Lexington, Virginia
ee

 

 

ARERR

4 THE ALUMNI

MAGAZINE

Unlocated Alumni

Below are given the names of alumni whose mail has been returned to us from the addresses indicate.
Please look over the list and send us any available information about those listed.

1870

Frank Albert, Pasadena, Cal.

John Patrick Austin, Clarksville, Ark.

Wilbur Fisk Barclay, 705 W. Chestnut St., Louisville, Ky.

Daniel Bissell, Baden, St. Louis, Mo.

Taylor Blow, Richardson Drug Co., St. Louis, Mo.

Isaac Oren Bower, Irwinton, Ga.

Randolph Claughton, 51 Chambers St., N. Y. City.

Elijah Brewer Davis, 1310 Cherokee Road, Louisville, Ky.

Palmer Dickson, New Orleans, La.

Rev. James Magee Grey, La Rosa 23 Washington St., Oak-
land, Cal.

Geo. Caswell Holbrook, Winnsboro, Tippah Co., Tex.

Chas. Kelley Hibben, Chicago, Ill.

Andrew Polk Johnson, Hotel Clerk, Maxwell House, Nash-
ville, Tenn.

Walter Howard Leyburn, 38 V. St., N. W., Washington,
D e

James McClure Meriwether, Peacher’s Mills, Montgom-
ery Co., Tenn.

Francis Henry Orme, Brunswick, Ga.

Nicholas Austin Patterson, Barnwell, S. C.

James Christian Poague, Gen. Del., Memphis, Tenn.

Zadock Ingram Pyle, Preston & Charles St., Houston,
Texas. :

Jackson Joseph Rain, Gainesville, Fla.

Nathaniel Leonidas Respass, 315% Peters St.

Charles Neely Rutherford, Austin, Texas.

James K. Sayers, Franklin, Tenn.

Nowal Thomas Spence, 105 Cliveden Ave., Germantown,
Philadelphia.

Charles Pope Taliaferro, New Market, Va.

John Samuel Thomas, Providence, Mo.

Samuel Henry Webb, Oaks, Orange Co., N. C.

Geo. Worthington Younger, Dawson, Navarro Co., Texas.

1871

Thomas Lane Connella, Marion, Ala.

Percy Glenwood Davison, Curtio, Okla.

Walter Langdon Eustis, Natchez, Miss.

Edmund B. Field, 3622 Gladstone Boulevard, Kansas
City, Mo.

Benjamin Riser Fretwell, Port Lavala, Texas.

Walter Gorman, P. O. Box 20, Wittsburg, Ark.

Jacob Guice, Batchelor, iA,

Marmaduke Harwood, Sweet Springs, Mo.

rea Taylor. Henderson, Williamstown, Wood Co., W

a.

Henry Key Hill, Independence, Mo.

Donnell Ware Hunter, Natchez, Miss.

William Harrison Hurt, Galveston, Texas.

Wallace K. Kerr, Homer, Claiborne Parrish, La.

James M. Mading, Rocky Mount, Bossier Parrish, La.

Marion Mathews, Robertson Co., Tenn.

Sam’! McCormick, Berryville, Va.

Eugene Clarence McDonald, Arkadelphia, Clark bt Ark.

Wm. Wilkins Merritt, Woodvurn, Warren Co.,

Milton Andrew Jackson Moore, Bennettsville, aber.
ouch Co., S GC.

Dr. Jno. Edmund O’Reilly, Highland, Miss.

Horace Kimball Orgain, Duncan, Texas.

Beverley Prier Patrick, Centreville, Texas.

Josiah Rainey, Germanton, N. C.

Wm. Elicia Ridge, 3647 Troost St., Kansas City, Mo.

Septimus Adelbert Robb, Trinity, “Trinity Co., Texas.

VERBON FE. Kemp, Secretary,

Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia.

Arthur Joel Tatum, Monroe, La.

Jno. Weber, 358 Bienville Ave., New Orleans, La.
William Lewis Williams, Franklin, La.

Benjamin Franklin Winn, Edgerton, Patte Co., Mo.
Wm. Waller Woodruff, 108 Elm St., Atlanta, Ga.

1872

Marcus A. Aderhold, Lincolnton, N. C.

Joel Isham Allen, Reedy Creek, S. C.

Wm. E. Atkinson, Little Rock, Ark.

Robert Waters Beckwith, 501 Davis Ave., South Jackson-
ville, Fla. :

F. M. S. Dixon, Rockbridge Co., Va.

Thos. Fleming, 125 Queen St., Alexandria, Va.

Jno. Martin Franck, Richlands, Noe,

Joseph Nathaniel Green, Lexington, Texas.

Mike Garber Harman, 308 Hall Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.

Thos. Avery Lamb, 220 5th Ave., N. Y. City.

John Marshall, 11 East 30th St., New York, N. Y.

Lee Jocelyn McMahan, Galveston, Texas.

Vol H. Meriwether, Hernando, Miss.

Alex Montgomery Morrell, Pine Bluff, Ark.

Jacob Burk Noble, Shepherd, San Jacinto Co., Tex.

Kennedy Riddle Owen, 45 William St., N. Y. City.

Wm. Sam’! Patterson, Wilmore, Jassamine Co., Ky.

J. L. M. Pirtle, Cherokee Co., Texas. :

Hamilton G. Robertson, Alexander Bldg., Beaumont, Tex.

Edward Wall Smith, New York City.

Harold Steele, 443rd St., San Francisco, Cal.

Edward M. Walker, Crowley, Arcadia Parrish, La.

Egbert J. Watson, Fayette, Miss.

Frank Lewis White, Lebanon, Tenn.

Jas. Newton Winn, Edgerton, Platte Co., Mo.

1873

Chas. Beauchamp Anderson, P. O. Inspector, 416 Balti-
more Ave., San Antonio, Texas.

Ashton M. Boney, New York City.

Wm. Beattie Boney, Druggist, New Orleans, La.

Ervin Ernest Bryan, Gildings, Lee Co., Texas.

Jas. McKinney Coffin, Blum, Hill Co., Texas.

Lawrence Sullivan Carter, Paducah, Cattle Co., Texas.

Gates Dibrell, Memphis, Tenn.

Wm. James Powell Glenn, El Paso, Texas.

James Bramley Holloway, Ft. Maginnis. Fergus Co., Mont.

Thos. Bramley Holloway, Somerville, Tenn.

John Campbell Kelley, Galveston, Texas.

James Samuel Langworthy, 2138 Dumaine St., New Or-
leans, La.

Lewis Herman McDowell, Demopolis, Ala.

Edward S. Morris, Columbia, Tenn.

Walter W. Montgomery, King Geo. C. H., Va.

Jas. McClung Paris, Elmot, Miss. Co., Ark.

Risdon Hutchings Price, Broker, ©, Southern Hotel, St.
Louis, Mo.

John Talbert Rhodes. Cleneyville, Raphides Parrish, La.

Charles Morgan Roberts, Washington, Texas.

Jno. Savage, 4406 Ave., B. Birmingham, Ala.

James Sutton Spring, Bingen, Hempstead Co., Ark.

Patrick Henry Torrans, Texarkana, Tex.

Carlos Tracy, Walterboro, S. C.

Ferdinand Van Bruyssel, New Orleans, La.

Robert Triplett White, New York City.

Rev. Samuel Knox Winn, Brooklyn, N.Y.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 5

Victorious Generals, 1924

By Louts S. Jort, ’24, Director of Athletic Publicity

The Generals began . Fis aieone dee
ous style, overwhelming t e unusually
College eleven 34-0. Eddie Cameron gave a pleasing
demonstration of what might be expected of him
throughout the remaining games by scoring four of the
five touchdowns registered against the Maroons. His
spectacular line-plunging, the accurate passing of Henry
Wilson, the air-tight work of the line which held the
visitors to a single first down, and the smoothness of
the White and Blue teamwork featured the remark-

well-played opener.

i. ae game of the year was played in Washing-
ton the following Friday when the well-coached Mary-
land team bowed before the vastly superior play of the
Generals who scored 19 points while the Old Liners se-
cured but 7. Mike Palmer was the outstanding star of
this battle, reeling off 97 yards of enemy territory in
several brilliant runs. The Marylanders rang up a
touchdown when a White and Blue punt was blocked
and recovered over the goal line. “Red” Hawkins at
centre, Captain Tilson, Kay Thomas, Rauber, and
Stemmons played excellent defensive football, while
Cameron, Wilson, and McMillan were offensive mar-
vels.

The team slumped badly the following Saturday
when the scrappy Wake Forest Deacons nosed out a
10-8 victory. ‘The Generals were never able to get
started, while the visitors played alert football, Pegano
scooping up a fumbled punt to score a touchdown and
Rackley sending a remarkable 50-yard dropkick
through the uprights for the winning margin. Cam-
eron scored the lotals’ touchdown and Kay Thomas
accounted for two points when he tackled a Deacon be-
hind his goal line for a safety.

The Kentucky battle followed, the Generals taking
the Wildcats into camp, 10 to 7. Henry Wilson scored
a touchdown when he ran 40 yards with an intercepted
pass, while Harry Dawson sent over a perfect field
goal for the overlapping points. ‘The Kentuckians

 

 

Two MAINSTAYS OF THE VICTORIOUS GENERALS

tallied on a blocked punt that rolled over the goal line.
Captain “Tex” Tilson was the defensive star of the
game, with Daves and Thomas showing the great crowd
present how the end positions should be properly taken
care of. Henry Wilson’s generalship was of the high-
est order.

Then came the hectic battle with V. P. I. in Lynch-
burg when the ancient rivals fought to a bloodless tie.
The Generals rushed the ball deep into enemy territory
early in the game but could not register. The line
rushed five attempted dropkicks by Don Rutherford
and he missed them all by wide margins. ‘The White
and Blue forwards also held fast in the pinches, re-
sisting the vaunted Gobbler attack with apparent ease.
“Duke” Perry flashed into fame during this contest
by doing some remarkable punting when he relieved
the injured Rauber. Bo McMillan was the most con-
sistent ground-gainer for the Generals, while Maynard
Holt played an all-American game at guard.

Virginia followed to the slaughter; the next week-
end discovered the Cavaliers on the short end of a bril-
liant 20 to 7 victory by Washington and Lee. ‘The
Orange and Blue scored early in the first quarter after
an unimpeded march up the field. After that, how-
ever, the Generals had things their own way, McMil-
lan catching a beautiful pass from Wilson while stand-
ing behind Virginia’s goal line. In the third quarter,
the diminutive star slashed his way through the Vir-
ginia defense for his second tally. Eddie Cameron
came into his own in the final period when he carried
the oval 15 times in 18 plays and plunged over for the
last markers after an uninterrupted march from mid-
field. The whole line played magnificent football,
while the offense functioned smoothly and effectively,
Henry Wilson directing the attack with coolness and
judgment. It was a great victory, clean-cut and hard-

fought.

The Citadel of South Carolina provided the last
home game of the season and was easily beaten, 32 to
7. Eddie Cameron scored four of the five touchdowns
made and ran his season’s total of points up to 72, far
more than any other player in this section of the coun-
try. The visitors registered their lone tally in the clos-
ing moments of play against a reserve team which had
relieved the Varsity. Buddy Budnick and Captain Til-
son starred for the victors, with Ty Rauber and Red

Hawkins also putting in some excellent defensive

work.

The Mountaineers made extensive preparations to
trounce the Generals in Charleston on November fif-
teenth, but the White and Blue chose to play a strictly
defensive battle and fought the powerful Morgantown

—-

(Continued on page 27)

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE
The Cage Season

By R. A. Smiru, Graduate Manager of Athletics

With the post-season game against
the University of Florida at Jackson-
ville on December sixth officially bring-
ing to a close Washington and Lee’s
already successful 1924 football sea-
son, attention will at once focus upon
the Generals’ major winter sport,
basketball, which will get under way
with the start of pre-holiday practice,
called for December 10, on the courts
in Doremus Gymnasium.

The announcement recently made
by the Athletic Council of the Uni-
versity of the selection of EK. M. “Ed-
die’ Cameron as head coach of the
1924-1925 basketeers has met with

the whole-hearted approval of the en-
Danhy DROWN “tire Student Body and Alumni. For
Mgr. Basketball,
1924 the last four years the particular back-
field star on the football team, and
named as All-Southern fullback as a result of his stellar
performances on the gridiron during the season just
ended, Cameron has also been a guard on the Blue and
White quintets for the past three years. Perhaps no
higher compliment could be paid his ability on the court
than his selection as coach for the forthcoming season.
Entering Washington and Lee in the falt-of 1920, he
received his B.S. degree last June and returned to the
University this fall to take up the study of law. Play-
ing at fullback on the Varsity eleven for four consecu-
tive years and at guard on the basketball teams for the
last three years, his general popularity as an athlete
and a leader was ably demonstrated last year by his
election to the captaincy of both the football and bask-
etball teams, being one of the few men to have received
the unique honor of captaining two major sport teams
in a single season. Before entering Washington and
Lee, he starred in four branches of sport at Culver
Military Academy, where he received his training un-
der Bob Peck, former Pittsburgh star and all-time
All-American center. Cameron has a thorough knowl-
edge of the game and athletic circles at the University
are confident of his ability to turn out a successful
team.

The prospects for the 1924-1925 season are excep-
tionally bright with the return of three letter men from
last season’s Varsity as a nucleus around which to
build the team for the present season. Captain Nelson
Lake, and Rudy Lane, star forwards of the quintet, and
Henry Wilson, Cameron’s running mate at guard last
season and quarterback on the football team this fall,
will all be on hand for the initial practice. Burke, who

 

did not return to college this year, and Cameron, who
will assume the coaching reins, are the only two regu-
lars lost to the squad. In addition to these men, prac-
tically all of last season’s outstanding substitutes are
again in the University this year and will no doubt
cause some decidedly spirited competition for the five
positions to be filled. Among these are George Wil-
son, a brother of Henry’s, Bob Smith, “Chick” Hen-
derson, Urmey and Whitley. Coming up from the
last year’s Freshman team will be all five of the regu-
lars, Van Horn, a rangy center, Davison and McCand-
less, forwards, Funk and Ginsberg at guards with
Herndon and several others as substitutes. With these
men who are all certain to report, Coach Cameron will
have a most capable squad to start things off, with the
numerous others who will report for the first practice.

Captain Lake, who has played a sensational game at
forward on the Generals’ quintets during the last four
years, and who has been repeatedly selected as all-
South Atlantic and All-Southern forward, has been on
the courts a great deal of the time this fall and is ap-
parently in great shape and ready to duplicate his for-
mer brilliant performances throughout the season. A
surprisingly accurate shot from all distances, a clever
dribbler and a good cover man, he is well suited to lead
the Generals during the year. He prepped at Charles-
ton, West Virginia, High School for four years and
was selected as all-State forward before entering
Washington and Lee. His followers here again look

 

(Continued on page 26)

 

 

 

CoacH Epprgé CAMERON

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Intelligence of Freshmen at Washington and Lee

By Dr. Wm. M. Brown, M.A., 714

In line with the methods employed in many other in-
stitutions throughout the country, Washington and Lee
began the giving of intelligence tests to Freshmen in
the fall of 1922. These tests were administered un-
der the direction of the Department of Education and
Psychology and are designed to give the administra-
tive officers and the members of the faculty a better
idea of the mental capacity of each student than could
be obtained by any other means except on long associa-
tion and experience with the student in question.

Two tests are given to the members of each year’s
freshman class, the average of the results obtained be-
ing taken as a fairly reliable index of a student’s in-
telligence. Each test requires thirty minutes for ad-
ministering, so that a maximum of only one hour is
needed for both. This is done in order to avoid any
fatigue effects on the part of those tested.

The “Otis” test contains 75 questions, out of which
the average student is expected to answer about 50 in
the time allowed. The “Thurstone” test is somewhat
easier and contains 168 questions, out of which about
85 are answered by the average person. All the ques-
tions are designed so that a minimum amount of writ-
ing will be necessary. In most cases the answer can
be indicated by inserting a single word, letter or figure,
or by underlining or checking the correct one out of
several possible responses. The questions cover such
subjects as simple arithmetic problems, word-meaning,
ability to follow directions, logical thinking, and the
like. Many of the readers of this magazine will recall
the intelligence test given them while in the military
service, and there is a great degree of similarity be-
tween the army mental test and the ones used at Wash-
ington and Lee.

In general, it may be said that an individual’s in-
telligence is manifested by the promptness and the de-
gree of completeness with which he adapts himself to
new situations. his is just what an intelligence test
undertakes to find out.

Samples of questions asked are the following :

Which one of the five words below means the op-
posite of north? |

I. Pole; 2. equator; 3. south; 4. east; 5. west.

A foot is toa man and a paw is to a cat the same as
a hoof is toa what?

1. Dog; 2. horse; 3. shoe: 4. blacksmith; 5. saddle.

One number is wrong in the following series. What
Should that number be ?

01, 3, 6,10, 15, 21, 28 34.

If 4% yards of cloth cost 90 cents, what will 2/%
yards cost?

 

Which one of the five words below is most unlike
the other four?

1. Good; 2. large; 3. red; 4. walk; 5. thick.

The maximum score possible for the Otis test is 75
and for the Thurstone test 168, each question being
valued at 1. In practice high scores are seldom, if
ever, obtained. The usual range of the scores on the
Otis test is from 15 to 70, with the median at about 50.
On the Thurstone, the scores range ordinarily from
25 to 155, with a median of approximately 85. It will
be seen, therefore, that the combined range is from
40 to 225 and the median is about 135.

After all the test papers are scored, the raw scores
are arranged on a percentage basis. The individuals
are then classified into five groups as respects their in-
telligence. These groups are designated A, B, C, D,
and FE, respectively in descending order. Those stu-
dents making 80 to 100 form the A-group, those rat-
ing 60 to 80 are placed in the B-group, and so on, the
E-group containing those whose rating is from 0 to 20.

Not infrequently some unusual and even absurd an-
swers are given. One student stated that “physics is
to motion as blood is to temperature.” Another said
that a radical person “is one who is averse to change
and progress.” Another student tells us that “Don’t
cross a bridge before you get to it’? means “Don’t do
the impossible.” We are told in all seriousness that a
“chameleon is a bird,” that “Plymouth Rock is a kind
of granite,” that “Rumania was an ally of Germany
during the World War,” and that “it is very easy to
become well acquainted with persons who are timid.”

The use of the results is now somewhat limited.
Within the next year or two, however, the intelligence
rating of virtually every member of the student body
will be available. Special cases in which such informa-
tion will be useful are the following: (1) classifying
students into sections for purposes of instruction; (2)
dealing with delinquent students and “loafers;” (3)
admitting special cases into the university; (4). deter-
mining the amount of work a student can carry; and
(5) giving educational and vocational advice to stu-
dents.

Many colleges have even gone so far as to adopt the
intelligence test as part of their entrance require-
ments, so that a fair degree of mentality is a prerequi-
site along with adequate preparation, good character,
and health. Whether this procedure will be followed
at Washington and Lee, however, remains to be de-
termined in the light of future developments in the
usefulness of the tests.

 

8 _ THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Student Body Progress

By J. C. Morrison, Jr., President of the Student Body

With a total enrollment greatly exceeding that of
any former year of its existence, Washington and Lee
commenced its one hundred and seventy-fifth session
on September seventeenth with every indication, from
the student point of view, of its being one of the most
successfully progressive years in the history of the
University. In recent years, not only has the Univer-
sity expanded rapidly in the matter of student enroll-
ment culminating in the present record-breaking reg-
istration, but also its expansion in other directions has
been definitely proportionate. With the unprecedented
increase in the matter of student enrollment has nat-
urally come the essentially necessary increase in the
endowment fund, a steady enlargement in the person-
nel of the faculty of the University, new buildings
with tentative plans for others to follow, and naturally
the necessity for a broader and more comprehensive
administration of student affairs by student officers.

Interesting to alumni generally in its accurate por-

trayal of the extremely cosmopolitan nature of the

present student body should be the preliminary reg-
ister of students, issued ftom the office of the regis-
trar of the University under date of October first. The
first page of this pamphlet reveals the fact that the
first thirty-five names, listed therein in alphabetical or-
der, represent an enrollment from seventeen different
states and one foreign country. The classification of
students by residence, set forth on the last page of the
register, discloses the information that the 1924-25 reg-
istration represents an enrollment from thirty-four
states and five foreign countries. Such an enrollment
is all the more remarkable when it is remembered
that Washington and Lee is strictly an endowed Uni-
versity, independent of state, church or denomina-
tional control.

It is not too early, judging from the trend of events
during the fall months, to predict a most successful
year in every phase of student activity on the campus.
Under the able tutelage of Coach Jimmy Dehart and
the outstanding leadership of Captain “Tex” Tilson,
the 1924 Generals have terminated an entirely success-
ful season. The loyal and unswerving support ren-
dered by the student body to the team throughout the
season has been particularly noticeable, both at home
and abroad. Appropriate celebrations have followed
each victory, in particular the decisive win for the sec-
ond consecutive year over the Blue and White’s anci-
ent rival, the University of Virginia.

An exhaustive discussion of the Washington and
Lee Student Body’s most prized and traditional pos-
session, the Honor System, is precluded herein by a
lack of space. It is sufficient to say that again it has re-

ceived the whole-hearted support and cooperation of
the student body as a whole, which fact, coupled with
its aged foundation in tradition, has ever contributed to
its marvelously successful operation. ‘The Honor Sys-
tem has repeatedly been the subject of inquiries from
other and larger institutions desirous of inaugurating a
similarly successful code within their own student bod-
ies. The plan of student self-government and the
Honor System, long established at Washington and
Lee, have become widely acknowledged as models of
efficiency and effectiveness and this condition must be
largely attributed to the sincerity and earnestness of
purpose with which the members of the Student Body
have ever supported them. Such a condition naturally
renders justifiable the pride which the Student Body
and the Alumni of Washington and Lee have always
exhibited in the maintenance of these historic institu-
tions. |

One of the many aims which the Executive Commit-
tee of the Student Body has this year set out to accom-
plish is the encouragement of a closer contact, if pos-
sible, between undergraduates and alumni. ‘There is
much truth in the saying that no school can be greater
than its alumni. Upon them rests a large share of re-
sponsibility for the future expansion and progressive-
ness of their Alma Mater. As the governing head of
the Student Body for the present year, therefore, the
officers and members of the Executive Committee ex-
tend a most cordial welcome to the University at any
and all times to the members of Washington and Lee’s
alumni, assuring them that they may be ever certain of
that friendliness and democracy which are inevitably
associated with the spirit of this campus.

S. Emory Durrance, *17, is practicing law in Or-
lando, Florida.
A. Carter Crymble, ex-’17, has recently become the

owner. and manager of the Crymble Electric Com-

pany, Bristol, Virginia.

Homer A. Jones, ’17, is cashier of the Washington
Trust and Savings Bank of Bristol, Virginia.

John A. Mahoney, Junior, ’17, of Bristol, is man-
ager of the Mahoney-Jones Company, a wholesale dry
goods firm.

John Drye, 719, attended the Virginia ganie at Char-
lottesville and then came over to Lexington for a day
where he visited with old friends. He is now with the
law firm of Larkin, Rathbone and Perry, New York
City.

T. J. Daugherty, ’22, is a lumber manutacturer at
Emporia, Virginia.

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE by

A Word from the President to the Widely Scattered Sons of
Washington and Lee

I rejoice that my period of hospital seclusion and
compulsory vacation seems drawing to a much-desired
close, that I am once more back at home most happily,
tho gradually, resuming my work, and that I can soon
re-dedicate myself, to the full extent of my ability, to
the great and inspiring task which calls all of us to
happy and fruitful service. oo a

Our ancient and honored institution 1s the one his-
toric all-Southern nursery of leadership, enriched by
priceless traditions and ennobling associations, un-
hampered by state or denominational limitations, the
combined Yale-Harvard of the South, and thru South-
ern idealism of the nation. :

It is our immediate and insistent task, during this
critical period of education, transition, and reconstruc-
tion, to see to it that the whole South and the nation
understand and accept this relationship and function.
Let every friend and alumnus, therefore, and especially
every group of alumni, determine that this all-Southern
relationship and loyalty, this inter-denominational de-
votion to a Christian center of our Christian civiliza-
tion, shall be acknowledged and acted upon in its own
locality.

To each group of loyal alumni, however few, and
wherever located, let me make these initial suggestions
as the first steps in your great task for W. & L.

1. Organize. Scattered, unrelated, unorganized in-
dividuals can accomplish very little in this whirlwind
period of conflicting efforts. Form a local W. and L.

Alumni Association, and send correct list of local of-
ficers and all local mailing addresses to Verbon E.
Kemp, Alumni Secretary, at Lexington.

2. Arrange for a regular meeting of all local alumni
on our annual W. and L,. day, January nineteenth, to
hear from your Alma Mater, revive old memories,
strengthen old loyalties, and plan new efforts.

3. Appoint a large and influential committee to call
at once upon your local newspaper men, explain their
relationship to W. & L., and urge that W. & L. news
be given a regular place in their columns, just as near-
by institutions are regarded and treated. ‘Then send
on to Verbon E. Kemp the result, that the paper may
be placed on our regular mailing list for frequent news
items. |

4. Appoint, if practicable, some representative to get
in touch with ‘the high-school principal, let him know
that W. & L. is not a local or state institution, and, if
practicable, make a talk on W. & L. to the high-school
students. t

If these four steps are taken, all will agree that the
sons of W. & L. in your locality are loyal in heart,
prompt in action, and effective in method. In such a
glorious work the sons of such a mother will find an
ever increasing combination of unselfish happiness and
patriotic usefulness. 7

Sincerely your Fellow-laborer,

Henry Lovuts Smita.

 

 

As Others See Us

The following editorial appeared in the Charleston
(S. C.) News and Courier, Tuesday, November 11,
under the caption “At Washington and Lee’’:

“One thing that impressed members of the Citadel
football team which played at Lexington, Virginia,
Saturday was the honor system that is in effect at
Washington and Lee University. ,

“Upon arriving they went to the gymnasium and no-
ticed boxes of apples with a card stating the price of
the fruit. In front was an ordinary pasteboard box
containing a number of coins. A person would take
what he wanted and leave his money.

“Next morning the cadets while walking about the
campus noticed the co-operative store conducted by the
University and to their surprise found that there was
no storekeeper. A student goes in, selects what he
wants, rings up the amount on the cash register, makes
his own change or leaves his check, and walks out with
his purchase. ‘There is no one to watch and every
student is strictly on his honor.

“Books, coats and other articles were noticed all
about the campus, there being no danger of anyone
taking anything. Mea

“It is stated that examinations are conducted on the
same principle and that there is no supervision what-
soever as far as a student’s honesty or integrity is con-
cerned. The University leaves it strictly up to the
student as to his conduct and the general impression
was that this confidence was not misplaced.

“Another feature was that whether on the campus
or on the streets of Lexington the students invariably
spoke pleasantly to the members of the Charleston
party, whether they knew them or not.”

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas W. Gilliam, Second (’19),
are now at home at 405 Madison Street, Lynchburg,
Virginia.

W. T. Tillar, Junior, ’22, is a hardware merchant in
Emporia, Virginia.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Books Most Read by College Students--The Library--Alumni May Use
Library by Mail

By BriancHe PricHarp McCrum, Librarian

Washington and Lee University Library has just
completed the best month of its history, so far as book
circulation is concerned, with a total issue of 1634 books
for home use, 428 books withdrawn from the stacks
and put on reserve for use in the library, and 675
books reserved in the seminar rooms as reference col-

lections for advanced classes. The best thing about

these figures is that they are not a lucky accident but
that they are the result of a steady growth of library
use which has more than tripled in the past five years.

An examination of the circulation records furnishes
quite an interesting commentary on what college men
of to-day read. Drama is a great favorite. George
Bernard Shaw’s plays are the most universally popu-
lar; two copies of his “Saint Joan” are always in de-
mand. Anatole France’s niche on the shelves remains
relatively empty, with “Thais” and “Revolt of the
Angels” leading in favor. The number of rebound
copies of Joseph Conrad’s novels show the good use
to which they have been put. “Lord Jim,” best be-
loved of early Conrad enthusiasts, now shares inter-
est with the more recent “Rescue” and “Rover.” In
the realm of biography, Washington and Lee men con-
tinue to select most freely from the books about Gen-
eral R. E. Lee. Bradford’s “Lee the American,” Page's
“Robert E. Lee Man and Soldier,” and Dr. Riley’s
“Tee after Appomattox” share in a steady use; two
copies of Drinkwater’s “Robert E. Lee” are read per-
haps less for their interest as drama than for the sub-
ject matter. Lovers of the classics will be glad to
know that the Library has a waiting list for Aristo-
phanes’ “The Frogs;” while Gilbert Sedles’ “Seven
Lively Arts” fittingly described as a “merry mono-
graph on modernism” is equally in demand. Among
recent books of all classes perhaps the one which has
held first rank in interest for the longest time is Hen-
drick’s “Life and Letters of Walter Hines Page;”’ its
successor will probably be Mark Twain’s ‘“Autobi-
ography,” in which he now speaks from the grave after
he was “dead and unaware and indifferent,’ as he
wished to do. A few new titles for which the l-
brary predicts a large circulation are: F. L. Well-
man’s “Gentlemen of the Jury,” Gamaliel Bradford’s
“Bare Souls,” John Bassett Moore’s “International
Law and Some Current Illusions,’ Lothrop Stoddard’s
“Racial Realities in Europe,” Thomas Beer’s “Stephen
Crane,’ Charles H. Haskins’ “Studies in the History
of Medizval Science,” and E. L. Pearson’s “Studies in
Murder.”

Progress along a different line from book circula-
tion also needs mention. During the summer the build-

ing was thoroughly done over—the walls redecorated
in an old ivory tone, the floors and woodwork refin-
ished—so that the present physical condition of the
building is much more attractive than it has ever been
before. The art gallery on the second floor is especi-
ally improved by the soft golden brown color of its
walls and by the satisfactory background thus provided
for the beautiful Watteau pictures of the Bradford
collection and for the historic Custis and Lee family
portraits presented to the University by the Lees. A
Gilbert Stuart, loaned by Professor F. A. Shufeldt of
our faculty, adds a new interest to the picture collec-
tion.

To meet the needs of its readers, the library now
subscribes to 111 representative periodicals and to 18
newspapers; and bought last year 1193 new books, for
which together with binding and supplies it paid $4000.
The book fund is spent in two ways: first, to take
care of departmental requirements; second, to build
up the reference and reading value of the general li-
brary. Among some of the recent acquisitions of spe-
cial interest are found a complete set of “The Virginia
Magazine of History and Biography,” one of the best
known sources for Virginia genealogy; thirty missing
volumes of the ‘“T'ransactions of the American Society
of Civil Engineers,” in the files of which is to be found
the complete record of the development of a great sci-
ence in America; and a few recent publications such
as the Yale “Chronicles of America” in fifty volumes
presenting in readable yet scholarly style the salient
points of American history. This year. the library is
indebted to its friends for gifts of unusual value.
Miss Mary D. Carter of Upperville, Virginia, a promi-
nent mentber of the U. D. C. and a leader in their his-
torical work, has been tireless in searching for rare

 

(Continued on page 26)

 

 

ee eee

Fe hse

£ fe er
EJ md

3
j & assent
momed 1 7 P
J oon eee ; ;
§ ee ;
3 i
ia ; }
st See

THe WASHINGTON AND LEE CARNEGIE LIBRARY

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 1]

Alumni News Section

Stuart Chevalier, °03, Has Varied Career

 

 

 

STUART CHEVALIER, 03

Mr. Stuart Chevalier, LL.B., ’03, has had a more
varied and interesting career than is unusually the case
with lawyers. Upon leaving Washington and Lee, after
a term as adjunct professor of law, he was admitted to
the Bar of Louisville, Kentucky, in January, 1904.
For the next ten years he was engaged in general prac-
tice in that city. Following this period he held several
positions in rapid succession, giving him an opportunity
to come in close contact with. different phases of his
profession.

To hit the high points of Mr. Chevalier’s career:
From 1913-1918 he was city attorney of Louisville and
also a member of the faculty of the Jefferson School
of Law, Louisville; in 1918 he was offered the posi-
tion of assistant chief counsel of the Bureau of Hous-
ing and Transportation under the Labor Department
in Washington, which later became one of the wartime
Organizations formed to provide housing and trans-
portation facilities in the various cities where muni-
tions, etc., were being manufactured. He later be-
came chief counsel of this organization, resigning in
1919 to become special attorney and later assistant so-
licitor in the Bureau of Internal Revenue. In 1920 he
returned to Louisville to resume his practice as a mem-
ber of the new firm of Miller and Chevalier, moving,
In 1921, to take charge of the New York office of this
firm which was opened at that time at 61 Broadway.

Dick Feamster, ’23, is an instructor in English at
St. John’s Military Academy, Delafield, Wisconsin.

“Jim” Barker, ’11, Successful in Automobile
Business

Aside from acting as president of the Bristol Alumni
Association James M. Barker, Jr., B.A., ’11, is treas-
urer of the Baker-Barker Motor Company at Bristol.
He divides his time between the two. Mr. Barker has
been in the automobile business since 1915, and has
built up a wide reputation as a successful distributor in
that field. Mr. Barker’s company is the distributor for
the Studebaker automobile, exclusively, over ten coun-
ties of Virginia and Tennessee.

On June 11, 1920, he was married to Miss Margaret
Aston of Lebanon, Virginia. ‘They have a baby boy
about eight months old. Mr. Barker writes that from
all appearances he will make a good fullback on the
General’s team some day.

Mr. Barker is chairman of the Board of Deacons
of the First Presbyterian Church, a member of the
Board of Education, and a director of the Dominion
National and the Bristol Savings Banks,

In a recent letter Mr. Barker said: ‘My interest
and love for Washington and Lee will never lessen.
My regret is that I am not closer so that I could keep
in more active touch with all of its activities.”

Mr. Barker is a “Dick Daniel” among the alumni.

 

 

 

J. M. Barker, Jr. 711

My

12 . THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Charleston’s Hospitality

While our football team was in Charleston they re-
ceived royal welcome and entertainment at the hands
of the people of that city. Every one seemed to be
doing their utmost to show the team a good time while
there. Washington and Lee especially appreciated the
hospitality shown by the Holly Hotel in giving our
football team their rooms and meals without charge.
It is such things as this that make a lasting impression
and create a good feeling toward the people of Charles-
ton. The following editorial which appeared in the
Charleston Gazette shows the favorable attitude of the
people in that locality towards Washington and Lee.

“The people of Charleston were fortunate yesterday
in seeing such a game as the West Virginia- Washing-
ton and Lee conflict affords. They saw two teams of
gentlemen fight a splendid fight under conditions that
were favorable to neither team. They saw a clean
game, free from those penalties that mar so many
gridiron battles. They saw twenty-two young men
waddle around in mud until they were unrecognizable,
and yet in the whole sixty minutes of play there was
not a single minute when any spectator felt that any-
thing queer had been done.

“Tet us have more of this clean, fine sportsmanship.
Let us have this same kind of rivalry that makes parti-
sans feel a little less joyous in victory and a little less
despondent in defeat. Let us have this fine game be-
tween our university and our neighbor and friend,
Washington and Lee, perpetuated in this ‘city. This
fine, clean competition should be a great example to
our citizens as well as to our young athletes.”

——

Lafe Chafin Unhurt by Republican Land Slide

In his race for prosecuting attorney of Mingo
County, West Virginia, Lafe Chafin, 17, emerged vic-
torious over his Republican rival with a majority of
five hundred votes.

After graduating from Washington and Lee, Mr.
Chafin spent two years in the army and saw much ac-
tive service over-seas. He returned to Williamson,
West Virginia at the close of hostilities and entered
the practice of law..,

Starting with nothing but ambition to succeed in his
profession, he has risen high in public confidence as 1S
evidenced by his overwhelming election. The Alumni,
Incorporated, in which he has many friends, extends
to him most hearty congratulations. :

David H. Lindsay, ex-’23, is an instructor at Fork
Union Military Academy, Fork Union, Virginia. In
addition to his duties at the academy he enjoys a lucra-
tive law practice in that community. Mr. Lindsay will
be remembered as editor of The Mink during 1922-23.

Dr. William P. Ott, ’00, at the University of
Alabama

Dr. W. P. Ott, 00, for many years an associate pro-
fessor of mathematics at Vanderbilt University, en-
tered upon his new duties as head of the department of

mathematics this fall at the University of Alabama.

Dr. Ott was loved by all the Vanderbilt students
who knew him. He received, his B.A. and M.A. de-
grees from Washington and Lee in 1900-1. From
1915 to 1917 he studied at the University of Chicago,
where he received his Ph.D. degree. He was promoted
to associate professor of mathematics at Vanderbilt in
1921. ,

During the World War Dr. Ott attended the army
training camp at Fort Sheridan and was recommended
for a commission, which he declined because of the
need of his services in educational work. He is a Phi
Beta Kappa and a member of the Mu chapter Kappa
Sigma Fraternity.

—_—_—_

F. H. Styles, ’18, in West Africa

F. H. Styles, 18, has risen rapidly in the Consular
Service, which he entered shortly after his discharge
from the army. |

Mr. Styles took the consular examination and after
some preliminary training was made vice consul at
Bordeaux, France. His ability gained prompt recog-
nition and he was made consul at Loanda, Angola,
West Africa, where he is now stationed. In a letter
to Eddie Davis strongly recommending the consular
service for young college men, Mr. Styles points out
that numerous Washington and Lee alumni have

achieved eminence in the State Department during past

years. Among them are R. H. Bader, 09, Cairo,
Egypt; P. W. Buhrman, ’16, consul, Soerabaya; H.
M. Collins, 714, vice consul, Dublin, Ireland; T. R.
Hamilton, ’17, vice consul, Rouen; D. B. MacGowan,
92, consul, Vladivostok; J. C. Moomaw, ’11, vice con-
sul, Montreal; W. E. Smith, vice consul, Nanking,
China; A. G. Snyder, ’98, consul general, Christiania,
and W. C. Young, ’01, vice consul, London.

——

B. J. Mayer, ’06, is associated with Mr. Lovejoy of
LaGrange, Georgia, in the practice of law. Mr. Mayer
writes that one of his two children is a boy who will
one day enter Washington and Lee.

Joshua FE. Senft, ’00, is an attorney practicing in
Columbia, Pennsylvania. |

Samuel McC. Young, 798, is Chief Engineer of the
Board of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans.

Loring C. Kackley, ’15, is practicing law at Pine-
ville, Kentucky.

R. E. Johnston, ’04, is Chief Civil Engineer for the
Kentucky Utilities Company at Pineville, Kentucky.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Young Alumnus Achieves Unique Honor

ee ae ae a A recent dispatch
published in the
Richmond, Virginia
papers stated~ that
Ww. tao Pata |
B.S., ’22, stood first
among the five can-
didates who re-
ceived from the
Virginia State
-, Board of Account-
ancy last month the
_ coveted rating of
hi | “Certified Public
ae = Accountant.”

Forty-six candi-
dates took the ex-
amination of the Virginia State Board. Of the five
who passed, one had taken the examination annually
for the past five years and another had taken it once
before. The three others passed in only one subject.

In addition to being the only successful applicant
taking the complete examination for the first time, Mr.
Patton is the youngest candidate who has ever received
aC. P. A. He is only twenty-two years of age.

 

W: J. ta Patton, "22

The brief career of Joe Patton in the field of ac-
countancy reads like a page from a story book. After
graduating from Washington and Lee Mr. Patton ap-
plied for a position with several accounting firms in
Richmond, but was told that there was no room for
one so inexperienced. Finally he volunteered to work
without pay. This offer was accepted by one of the
large accounting firms in Richmond.

After a month of conscientious application Mr. Pat-
ton was voluntarily placed upon the pay roll and since
that time his salary has been steadily increased. ‘The
results of the Richmond examination not only show
that the firm was justified but also reflects to the credit
of the Washington and Lee School of Commerce and
to Mr. Coan, professor of accounting.

Fred McWane, ’13, Elected President
Lynchburg Alumni Association

Thirty-five Lynchburg alumni assembled at the Vir-
ginian Hotel on the night of Tuesday, October 21, for
dinner presided over by Mr. Maurice Moore, ’98, re-
tiring president of the Lynchburg Association.

Short addresses were made by James R. Caskie,
newly elected member of the Board of Trustees, and
Verbon E. Kemp, alumni secretary. The chief busi-
ness brought up at the meeting was the election of offi-
cers, which resulted in the election of Mr. McWane as

president, C. B. Burks, vice president, and A. L. Bur-
ger, ‘09, secretary.

Mr. McWane brings to the Lynchburg Association
boundless energy and proven ability. While at Wash-
ington and Lee he was president of the Athletic As-
sociation, manager of the football team, and chairman
of the athletic council, in addition to many other activi-
ties and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He was re-
cently a candidate for congress on the Republican
ticket, opposing the Honorable Clifton A. Woodward,
08, of Roanoke. Mr. McWane believes that there is
great advantage in converting Virginians and the solid
South to a two party system, and to that end has en-
tered politics.

Since leaving Washington and Lee Mr. McWane
has been manager of the Lynchburg Foundry Com-
pany at their Anniston, Alabama, plant, and was later
made general manager of the entire company with of-
fices at Lynchburg. He is married and has two fine
sons who expect to enter Washington and Lee in fu-
ture years.

 

 

 

 

 

F. W. McWang, 713
President Lynchburg Assn.

 

 

Hence Young, ’20, of Wheelerton, Tennessee, is
studying at Cornell University this year.

Walter N. Knebelkamp, ’21, writes that he has been
in Louisville, Kentucky, ever since he left Washington
and Lee. He is Secretary and Treasurer of the Louis-
ville Baseball Company.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Judge D. L. Groner, ’92, Eminent Jurist

Judge D. Lawrence Groner, of Norfolk, Virginia has
achieved many distinctions since his graduation at
Washington and Lee in 1892.

Judicial records show that the U. S. District Court
at Norfolk, Virginia handles a larger docket of admir-
alty cases than any other similar court in the county.

Mr. Groner was appointed as judge of the U. 5. Dis-
trict Court by President Harding in May, 1921, and
since that time has won the unanimous approval of the
Norfolk and state bars in his efficient and capable dis-
patch of the numerous important cases which have
come before him.

Prior to his appointment to the Bench, Judge Groner
had been very active in public life. In 1896 believing
that the stability of business and the integrity of com-
mercial honor were involved in the Free Silver move-
ment he joined the Republican Party and supported
President McKinley. He has continued to act with
the Republican Party ever since, and in 1901 was a
candidate for attorney general of Virginia against
Major Anderson of Lexington. He was again a can-
didate for office in 1908 when he ran for Congress. In
1904 and 1906 he was a delegate at large from Vir-
ginia to the Republican National Convention, and in
1908, 1912, and 1920 was a district delegate from Vir-
ginia. He was appointed U. S. attorney for eastern
Virginia by President Taft in 1911. When the World
War began he was appointed by Governor Stuart as a
member of the Virginia State Council of Defence.

At the joint meeting of the American and English
Bars in London this summer, Judge Groner delivered
one of the principal addresses in one of the Inns of
Court at the request of the American Committee.

 

Jupcr D. L. Groner, '92

 

 

After graduating at Washington and Lee in 1892,
Judge Groner began the practice of law in Norfolk.
He was married in April, 1898, to Miss Anne Read
Vaughan of Norfolk. They have three sons, J. V.
Groner, D. Lawrence Groner, Jr., and D. G. Groner.

 

 

Dr. Smith Honored by Trustees

On Tuesday evening, November twenty-fifth, the
Board of Trustees were hosts at a delightful dinner
party given in the Washington and Lee dining-hall in
honor of President Henry Louis Smith who had just
returned to the University. The guests were the mem-
bers of the faculty with their wives, and the adminis-
trative staff of the University.

After an informal reception in the Library, the
guests proceeded to the dining-hall which was attrac-
tively decorated with baskets of white pine and bitter
sweet. During the delicious turkey dinner which fol-
lowed, the musical selections rendered by Miss Penick
and Mr. Leggate added to the enjoyment of those
present.

Rector Lucian H. Cocke of Roanoke welcomed the
President in a few well-chosen words and Dean Camp-
bell acting as spokesman for the faculty expressed their
pleasure at Dr. Smith’s return, giving a briet resumé

of the progress of the University under his administra-
tion. President Smith responded with warm apprecia-
tion.

In Essex County, New Jersey, which has a popula-
tion of almost one million, two of the three judges
(Caffrey, 09 and Flannagan, ’88) are Washington
and Lee men. In addition to his duties in the Court
of Common Pleas, Judge Caffrey is Professor of Law
at New Jersey Law School and New York University.

Bob Ramsey, ’12, at one time secretary of the Alumni
Association and for many years active in government
and organization work throughout the country has
recently been appointed Business Manager of the
Lynchburg, Virginia, Chamber of Commerce, with of-
fices in the Lynch Building. Bob writes that the other
great event in his life this year was the arrival on
April seventeenth of Robert D., Junior, who will ma-
triculate at Washington and Lee in September, 1941.

Se anes ie sani c ~

a

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Braden Vandeventer, ’96, Prominent Lawyer

The interesting career of Braden Vandeventer, ’96,
began in 1899 when he received the degree of Bachelor
of Law from Georgetown University and was admitted
to the bar of the Supreme Court of Maryland. The
following year he was admitted to the bar in Virginia
and practiced law in Newport News from 1900-1903.

In 1903 he removed to Norfolk and practiced alone
until 1911 when he became a member of the firm of
Hughes and Vandeventer, specializing in admiralty
and marine insurance law. ‘This firm, of which Mr.
Vandeventer is the head, is now Hughes, Vandeventer
and Eggleston.

During the war Mr. Vandeventer served as chair-
man of Legal Advisory Board No. 2 of Norfolk. He
later entered the Field Artillery Officers Training
Camp, Louisville, Kentucky.

In 1920, his marriage to Miss Phelan Ruffin, daugh-
ter of Dr. Kirkland Ruffin of Norfolk, took place, and
they now have two children.

In addition to his many other activities, Mr. Vande-
venter has this year consented to fill the chair of Ad-
miralty Law at Georgetown University.

To the many lawyers among the Washington and
Lee alumni, the name of the firm of Hughes, Vander-
venter and Eggleston at once recalls the many impor-
tant cases which their practice has made admiralty
law. Prominent among these are the cases of the Ap-
pam, the Attualita, and the Kia Ora, all arising during
the war.

Mr. Vandeventer is a member of the local, Virginia

 

BRADEN VANDEVENTER, 96

 

 

State and American Bar Associations, and the Mari-
time Law Association of New York.

 

 

 

Dr. H. D. CAMPBELL
Dean

Dean Campbell Prominent in Association of
Colleges

At the meeting of the Association of Colleges and
Secondary Schools of the Southern States, which held
its annual session this year in Memphis, Tennessee,
Washington and Lee was again represented by Dean
H. D. Campbell. .

Dr. Campbell has for a number of years been promi-
nent in the work of the Association, and is at present
Chairman of one of its most important groups, the
Commission on Institutions of High Education. This
Commission met two days in advance of the Associa-
tion, and attendance upon the meetings of these two
bodies kept Dr. Campbell in Memphis for practically
the whole of the first week in December.

The Memphis alumni, when they learned that the
Dean would be in their city for several days, promptly
arranged a meeting of the local association, with Dr.
Campbell as speaker of the occasion. Memphis is a
central point for a large body of Washington and Lee
alumni, and the Dean met a number of old friends
during his stay in that city.

Dr. Campbell was also guest of honor and speaker
at a luncheon given by the Codperative Association.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Alumnus Victorious in Northwest

It has been said that the achievements of Washing-
ton and Lee are limited to the Southern states. How-
ever, the Washington and Lee Law School has ex-
tended its influence to every section of the country
through her alumni. No more striking example of this
breadth can be shown than the career of Judge Asa L.
Duncan, ’86, of the Fourth Judicial District of the
State of Montana.

After graduating at the Virginia Military Institute
Judge Duncan entered the Washington and Lee Law
School and received his B. L. degree in 1886. He left
his home in Franklin County, Virginia and went to
Montana early in 1892. He located at Missoula, where
he has resided ever since.

In 1896 he was elected county attorney of Missoula
County, and at the outbreak of the Spanish-American
War he enlisted in the First Montana Volunteer In-
fantry. He was appointed captain of Company L of
that regiment and served in the Eighth Army Corps in
the Philippine Islands. In 1899 he was promoted to
the rank of major and placed in command of the sec-
ond battalion of that regiment until mustered out at
San Francisco.

In 1912 he was elected Judge of the Fourth Judicial
District of Montana and re-elected in 1916 and 1920.
He has been closely occupied in the trial of civil, crimi-
nal, and probate cases.

 

Jupce A. L, DUNCAN, "86

 

 

J. L. HOWE, JR., 718, RETURNS FROM
CHINA

J. L. Howe, Junior, ’18, who returned to this coun-
try from China during November, gives us an inter-
esting account of conditions in China at the time he
left.

Mr. Howe was in northern China in September at
the outbreak of the revolution. Railroads were cut,
steamship sailing interfered with, and traffic in general
was practically at a standstill. He was forced to travel
by way of Korea and Shimonoseki, Japan, in order to
reach Shanghai and passed many troops of Chang Tso
Lin’s army en route. He found that the railroad
bridges between Shanghai and Hangchow, his final des-
tination, had been destroyed, so he was forced to go
overland by native house boat, and consumed three
days in traveling one hundred and twenty miles.

Hangchow had been taken over by the military
forces from the South and the city was comparatively
quiet. The Hangchow Christian College, where Mr.
Howe is teaching, had not closed its doors although it
had lost many members of the student body and fac-
ulty.

Mr. Howe set out again for Shanghai, traveling over-
land as he had come. He found war coming closer and
closer to the city with General Lu, the Chekiang Mili-

tary Governor, pressed hard on all sides by his enemies.
The city was under martial law and its fall was ex-
pected at any time.

He was able to get passage on the S. S. President
Pierce and sailed on October twelfth for the United
States, arriving in San Francisco, October thirty-first,
and Lexington, November tenth.

After winning his Bachelor of Science degree at
Washington and Lee in 1918, Mr. Howe returned here
to teach Chemistry during the session 1919-20. He
sailed in September, 1921, to accept an appointment as
Professor of Chemistry in Hangchow Christian Col-
lege, China, where he has remained until this year.

ee

The national secretary of Square and Compass, a
college Masonic society founded at Washington and
Lee in 1920, is Carl A. Foss, ’20, now living at Alex-
andria Bay, New York.

D. P. Boyer, ’08, Manager of the South Atlantic
Branch of Leonard-Peterson and Company of Chicago,
recently sold to the University the equipment for the
new Chemistry Building. When he stopped at Wash-
ington and Lee he was making a trip which included
calling on all the schools and colleges in Virginia,
North and South Carolina. Mr. Boyer’s son expects
to attend Washington and Lee.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Editorial

Lee’s Birthday Meetings

It has long been the custom of Washington and Lee
alumni the world over to meet on Lee S birthday At a
luncheon or dinner. It is the one time set aside for
Washington and Lee men to get together. _Every local
alumni association should make its plans at once for
this meeting. The alumni office will cooperate in every
way possible and furnish lists and addresses of alumni
in “any locality.

——

Alumni and Bonus Compensation

Only one-third of the former service men
entitled to a bonus under the new Compensa-
tion Act have applied for it. Last June
Charles Kupfer, ’18, suggested that every
alumnus of Washington and Lee contribute
his bonus, whether in cash or insurance, to his
Alma Mater, thus following the example of
both Washington and Lee who, unwilling to
accept the fruits of war, contributed them,
Washington in money and Lee in service, to a
great institution of learning. Mr. Kupfer’s
suggestion. should stimulate every alumnus into
applying for his compensation at once and
making Washington and Lee the beneficiary
thereof. Those interested should communi-
cate with the Alumni Secretary.

A Student-Alumni Building

One of the most outstanding necessities at Washing-
ton and Lee is a Student-Alumni Building. At pres-
ent much needed space in the regular college buildings
is taken up by the offices of student publications, the
Y. M. C. A., literary societies, the University Supply
Store and alumni offices. Also there has long been a
demand for an auditorium with stage.

The old Phi Kappa Sigma property at the corner
of Lee and Washington Streets just across from the
Episcopal Church has recently been re-purchased by
the University. This site is admirable for a Student-
Alumni Building. This building when erected should
include a small dormitory to be placed at the entire dis-
posal of alumni at all times as well as the other fea-
tures mentioned. It could be built at an approximate
Cost of $150,000. It is something for alumni to look
forward to in the future.

 

Davis and Defeat

An editorial entitled “The Sportsmanly Davises”
from the Pittsburgh Gagette Times (Republican) of

November 7 is sufficient comment upon the campaign
and defeat of John W. Davis.

“Something new and charming has been contributed
by Mrs. John W. Davis to sweeten and brighten the
usually humdrum political amenities. Very soon after

her distinguished husband had dispatched his sports-

manlike message to the White House congratulating

President Coolidge on his election, the wife of the de-

feated Democratic nominee sent a telegram to Mrs.
Coolidge congratulating the ‘First Lady’ on her hus-
band’s success at the polls. ‘The Davises are real folk,
as we affirmed last summer on that day which scarcely
will be regarded as of ‘red letter’ quality in their fam-
ily annals. But there can be no sting of defeat for
such as they. Their expansive graciousness hardly
will be emulated by all men and women in politics this |
year or any other. But it would leave a beaten candi-
date in better case with himself and the public if he
could exhibit the spirit that is so admired in the Da-
vises. John W. Davis remains a gentleman in defeat
and proves himself a good sport.”

 

A Thoughtful Service

A useful way of serving the University was recently
demonstrated by Mr. J. EF. Senft, LLB. ’00, of Colum-
bia, Pennsylvania. : :

Mr. Senft was attorney for the late Lloyd Mifflin
and Dr. Houston Mifflin was his executor. A dispo-
sition of the works of Lloyd Mifflin was being made
by Dr, Mifflin and Mr. Senft immediately asked that
a set of these poems be given to the Washington and
Lee Library. The executor promptly consented and
the Library has been the grateful recipient of Dr.
Mifflin’s generosity and Mr. Senft’s thoughtfulness.

—_—.

 

The Biggest Present Task of Washington
and Lee Alumni

The national work, the stupendous endowments, and
the up-to-date equipment of Harvard, Yale, Amherst,
Princeton, etc., bear witness to the amazing influence
of such “independent” institutions and the amazing
liberality toward them of public spirited citizens.

The leading citizens:of the South, however, have
never been accustomed to such institutions of learn-
ing, and most of them suppose that Washington and
Lee is supported by taxes, by the Virginia Legislature,
or by some religious denomination.

To have the whole South recognize the unique all-
Southern position of Washington and Lee, its historic
claim upon every patriotic Southerner, and its entire
dependence upon the liberality of individuals for sup-
port, is just now the one pressing duty of every Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus and every Washington and
Lee friend in every part of the United States.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SS SaaS eS SESE
a a

ee
= |
SSS

 

 

 

 

 

 

A ee BIE. SEES once more youth walking on (\
af the field,

Youth on its winning way;

He sees the ghost of what he used to be

Before the years grew gray;

Ghost of himself and at the first hard spill

He knows again the ancient autumn thrill.

 

a

~ — meee —
Yee
+. J = a!
ste age

 

S
SS

1
ROWSE SDS

ees
A

Uy
ee]

 

—
Nine

i Yes, there they are, as we were in our time,
| Young, strong and keen and fast;

Nii And they will find as cheers fade down the years
i No dreams forever last;
()

 

ny

aa
a
le
vA o
Se
im A
~ : 4a
aR ‘ a“
See =
SS A SS
= nati ——_—__ a x
a 1 hh teh
tf
°

|

4 a — =

rj - \C =

VR ERY,
NEL
a

<S=

NY 3

=
a
SUA EAS a
mT ea ee
AK
Tne
N

———
A Yf
ase
WAR rh eo ae as
a)
ZA
SS)
wS
>

———

For they will be, when certain years have gone, fl
Just Old Grads watching others coming on. I

eS
Sy

YZ
SE, CE
> SEE

5
iN
i

ih

l

Hi

nS i
ofl
WY

Each autumn I can see my ghost again
Come through the golden haze, \
To send long spirals crashing down the field
From endless yesterdays; I
Where haunting memories come back in flame \
To fade before the swift rush of the game. : i

 

fea
he

eel
Serr
. er IIt
i;
= ek

     
  

eo
a

 

See

Co
J

i,
Oh
SSE
<= re Zi

 

SS SS SS SS IS
ALE
SS

 

 

ERAS
an ONO

g ATL NS OO PP TE REY YOR a
OSTEO ALAIN RSH

oe
——————

 

 

 

 

 

The Old Grad and Autumn

i ON ee
aS an
et San
Bede ea

a am Oy) Y a : = ——
- Fe Pinca aaa

Fok iret 7s

 

aN
Se S
SS SSS SS

 

 

By Grantland Rice

 

 

 

 

 

i
lar
Pee A

PP
_-
Semelal
anes
a
4

——

(fe 0 sf >)
: | -~q° . .~ Ay i} A M . 7
a? PR) a. A - a Y- -
Or a ~ + e Bi Ve . ; qf f eS, Say h <j Ju re
bes E o a EL DA AINE a
2 my eS | weg SET WN OE”, Se

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

Famous “Old Grads’

 

“Rats” MILLER
(Died 1923)

 

Harry Moran

 

FLEMING BurK

 

 

 

 

 

“Buck” MILEs CAPTAIN BEAR “Cy” Younc

 

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Lee School of Journalism Will Open Next Fall

 

 

After the false start during the disastrous year of GEoRGIA—$5,800
1920-21, the Lee Memorial School of Journalism has P@lanta Constitution «998.5... 2... $1,500
at last gained sufficient funds to insure its inauguration Oe ata reorcian ... 2 sa eee 1,000
next year. ; @ilanta Journal...:..,.. ied gee ee aoe le

With over $70,000 pledged by southern newspapers Weeag >. Cohen (personal). 3. 4. 2. 500
and U. D. C. organizations, the School of Journalism Meta Chronicle.... 4030). oy 500
bade fair to be established in the near future. ‘This fapany Herald ..... Reais ee oo a 200
was made a certainty by a recent gift of $10,000 to Dr. Meeeus Ledger. .23 0 - 300
Smith by a prominent U. D. C. leader to be used for Mee lribune-Hefald’:..,-502.0.. 060 es 100
the employment of a full time professor in journalism me News 2. ou. 150
for three years, starting next September. fe Williams, Waycross 32.0... . 4.0.05 a8. 50

Alumni are well acquainted with the fact that Gen-

eral Robert E. Lee established the first school of jour- Kentucky—$1,900

nalism in the world while he was president of Wash- oe eton Hera ee a fe
: Peeieville Courter_journal;:,...........¢.2... 1,000
ington College. Although General Lee’s school died
7 : ; fe eeboro Messenger ...- 2 cu... 100
out seven years after its great founder’s death, jour- _ ;
oe . ; Oe insville New Bra ...:...0., oe ee. 50
nalistic education has become a recognized necessity. ae |
Southern newspaper men were quick to realize the pos- - | LovuIsIANA—$5,500
sibilities of carrying out General Lee’s pioneer work fee cria Town alk 2.0... ee. 2502
and made an initial guarantee of $50,000 by gifts Baton Rouge State Times ........... ae ees 150
through the Southern Newspaper Publishers Associa- Lake Charles American Press ...........-000. 150
tion for re-establishing his school. A list of these Mes News Star 5... 2, ot 8 ee 150
newspaper donors is given below. | Meee rleans States 6). ae ea ie. 1,500
hee Orleans Times Picayune ............0.. 1,500
a “ae eemOreans item 1,000
Anniston | $ 150 a Newmeyer (personal ) ae ote eee ee ee 500
Peranete ee Terald te. 1,000 - See cham (ournal . oe eek ik gee 300
Dien Wee. ek. 1,500
Florence News ...... a Dyn i. 108 Mississrpp1—$1,450
ee Jeaepal ee 100 Pigott Herald :....... Fete eee ee ee ees $ 150
Peeeeter times News ..25,.......02.....0. 300 fee Clation Ledger, 100
Pee ie News. 150 Mee) Lender a va eee 200
ee 150 Peevidian Star ........ ae. ee ee ee 450
Pie Weatur Daly... ee ee 150 Pitviesbure American =). .... (Ge a 250
BO Wee Montcomery 6... 2... ee, 150 Pee tie Post 2. see ee ee 150
? : pie bare Herald .. yous we 1o0
ARKANSAS—$1,100
$ NortH Caro_tina—$3,950
ce ee 100 vs
Tale Bee Deihoctat 1000 Bee ville Citizen ...0 Vo ig ee 300
: eo re ee fee le Limes 6.40. 300
FLoripa—$2,610 | Meee Observer oo. 500
Tee New ke ee (eooe ae 150 paotte oe SO
| Meee tribune 2 eek 100
eee al ee 100 :
Poe. as fee tcerson Dispatch ,........0040 3 100.
Me NCS ha ae 300
| Poe e font -Hnterprise ¢. 60.2). 100
Oe 0 Serge. ek ee eke lek. 150
Meeory Record .. 34.060 ee ee. 100
Reo FE porter-Star 2. he i 8 300
Mercron News ©... ee 100
We ee es, - 60
; Petom Free Press... See a 150
eee eee News 22. ee ee se 50
moe lount Telewram. 00. 0 rl. 100
We Py each Post 3 2 ee. 250
Poeieh News and Observer ........0). 2. 1,000
Wee Wet Beach Times’ 3... ee... 150
ee fie 150
Wyo oval, lame Tribene .. 2.00.5... .. 100
ey ea 100
©. Bobo Dean (personal) Tampa ............ 100 lak Tames 100
Ct Mullen (personal) Tampa’... 1.2... 1) ee ee

 

Pad! Poynter, St.Petersburg ...)...5........ 100 (Continued on next page)

_—

J.N THOMAS, ’24, NEW FIELD SECRETARY

oN.. Chomes
B.A., ’24, has been
made Field Secre-
tary of Washington
and lee and the Lee
School of Journal-
1 ism. Mr. Thomas
entered upon his du-
ties in October and
has been busily en-
gaged in carrying on
~his work through the
civic and luncheon
eas and U. D.
organizations in east-
ern North Carolina.
After graduation
last spring Mr.
Thomas spent the
summer traveling
over Europe under
the auspices of the
international Y. M.
C. A. He brings to his new task boundless energy and
a clear vision of the important work which he is un-
dertaking.
Under the able direction of Mr. Thomas, the Lee

 

J. N. THomas, ’24
New Field Secretary

Memorial School of Journalism Fund should attain a

substantial growth.

—_ —__ —_—_

LEE SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM WILL OPEN
(Continued from preceding page)

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21
PR TORTIO EEN a iil oe ag i 100
SOTIOWTHRWLLIE FM sc PE an a Se Seg 100
Brenham Batok ae ress 6600's 0s RS 100
Gareteanm: Sam oi aio: | gs 150
Denton Record weemicle 2662). 6 Se 300
Fort Wath Rete Co ooee uh, os rare 600
Fort ;Wetth Stay @ipleprarii (8. 6. aaa 1,000
Gainesville Revista, .:: Giwinaie.. i hea 100
Galveston: T riblane' are ks) Ae arabe Bo ae ee 400
Houstom ( hroriche 20 sar er Ses i ge 1,000
Flouston: Poet): 545/51) a es eas rea 1,000
Marshall: Messenger . aie fe oy See 100
Palestine, dietated ss : iyi [Bee he aa ee 100
Temple etegram:... ... Wages Se 150
Waco. Tames Pieeald .. ees eee 300
Texatkana Pour State Pres 3037, 9. eee 150

VIRGINIA—$7,925
Alexandria Gage oe leciccc Sa ee ae 200
Bristol .Herald-Gagarier ..47./).¢ uae... ee 150
Charlottesville Pimeress oo... ae 150
Chiton Horge Rewew ...0.,... 7g es 75
Lynchbure ewscg..... ve... a ee 1,500
Newport, News fmees ....cme.. cee) ee, 250
Nortolk Ledgetamematch 2a... 4a 7. eek . 1,000
Roanoke "Titnes Wend &.. sas... .... 8 ee. 1,500
Richmond News Leader .. 500... .% 20 °F fae” 1,500
Richmond ‘Times Dispatch ..@u..... 520, 7. 1,500
wtalmnton Beaders) 05/5) a... Oe 100
West Vircinia—$1,100
Charleston Gazette: 5.0458. «ssn. 500
Raleigh Register, Beckley om... 220... ie 100
Fiugtington Advertiser {ay :. 1a ee 500
OUTSIDE SuBSCRIPTIONS—$5,650
National Publishers Association .............. 500

memencton Stat pie. seus. Os iy) os PAS 300
meeeston-Salem Sentimel 027 .5:.4.9 oe, 400

TENNESSEE—$3,975

Beeeville Chromitie Ge. 4. Huds o6.6Ubcc tion 100
mee Stitt. iin Saul dans, MIS cece ss os 250
meson City Stata, Sy. wees. 200
Memison City Chingmeie, 56 bb ain oosc cate 300
memexville :Sentis@nawe sik s scceutewa ocae box 500
Memeiiie Bante iaiis meds bh ek ek 1,500
Meenville Tennessenia. ....s/cscdilic tan vewdess. 1,000
m= C. Johnsan, Ghattanooga ..6¢........4..- 125
SoutH CaroLina—$2,700
Meetson Triliters: foc Gas Ce ee 100
emeitbia State via hiens ioe elk tn 1,000
Rtabia- Recomhis' sas ld Ned 6 os ia 500
Charleston News Courier .........0-.ce0ece. 300
Memeate Timesiiee xi iuisy ks hey Oe 100
RPeN Ville ‘Pieebinmwebs 4 heie sig hoe OY eo ES 300
Greenwood Index-Journal ...........2.00e00- 100
Beepier Items coin 2 has: ee be 100
Spartanburg PMR sk a hE eats BS pee 150
Berea Titics  Biee abe MOR a 50
TExas—$5,700
Seetin Staten a 300

Editor end Pabligher 3022 oe See 200

F,: Wi Bott, New Orleans: : 3) io ae 100
Intertype (orpotation 0.9%. 14a) ae ee 500
Go ROAR). S65 Se 1,000
Hudson 'Trading Company «7 i: . Al hae 200
International Pressmen’s Union .............. 1,000
International Paper Company ..ic\,%0, ieee 1,000
Mergenthaler Linotype Company ...... 1,000
V. E, Kemp, Lexington, Virginia. 43) ae 200

The work of the newspaper men was taken up by the
United Daughters of the Confederacy and through
them carried to the public. In that way over $20,000
has been raised in addition, as the following list of city
contributions will indicate:

BinmingRasn, iA later 235555 12's: Baek oa $6,500
Jacksotville Ei iowids A), 6s.) On Sone, Se ae 4,500
West \Palth Beach, Florida 365 2 ee ee 2,000
Dying leicester tite aed (aie os eae 1,000
rrieaiiee, (i GoWida? 2 aes ak i ee ae he 2,000
Tahoe | Telos oases ph oe ae ae 1,500
Rateih, NorthcCorcinais. ee hate 1,000

Henderson, North Carolina
Miscellaneous Small Towns

Ze : THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Davis Alumni Club Report

Up until the day of election Washington and Lee
alumni were active in Mr. Davis’ behalf. Although
their efforts were doomed to failure they contributed
freely of their time, energy and funds.

Twenty thousand four-page circular letters were is-
sued from the Lexington office of the Club and a vo-

luminous personal correspondence carried on for six .

weeks prior to the campaign. Eight hundred seven
dollars and thirty cents was contributed by alumni for
this purpose. : |

This amount was expended as indicated below:

Printing 20,000 rour-page circular letters and

Pee) membershye Garis ..... ce ee $ 296.39
Envelopes and postage, 20,000 letters ........ 295.75
Addressing, folding and mailing (wages) .... 45.25
Stenographic help, 114 months ............ 147.00
Express, cuts and miscellaneous ............ 22.91

$ 807.30

The loyal alumni whose names are listed below made
our activity possible for it was they who contributed the
$807.30. Much credit is due Monte J. Goble, ’91 and
Governor W. A. MacCorkle, ’77, for being the instiga-
tors of the movement and guarantors of expense.

W. A. MacCorkle W. A. Anderson

T. A. Dickey ~W. A. Bell

A. W. Shields C ( Price

FE. L. Green J. M. Glenn

H. W. Moores — Washington, D. C. Alumni

Memphis Alumni L, H. Moss

W. M. Tuck > Alfred Hampton

H. M. Houston G. M. Smith

G. W. St. Clair G. A. Malan

L. B. Turnbull H. L. Norwood
1. Fix S. C. Lowrey

F. A. Nelson B. Vandeventer

i. P. Davis C. Smith

W. F. Kurtz Faison Service Station,
L. P. Collins Rees Turpin

FE. H. Seal C. D. Gilkeson

H. W. Dew J. H. Whiteman
Houston St. Clair H. L.. Denny

M .J. Goble Hunter McDonald
D. C. Satterwhite H. W.. Melly

R. L. Peck J. W. Garrow

m. HH. Davis L.. H, Cocke

D. L. Gwathney J. G. Houston
Gordon Armstrong J. W. Jones

C. S. Funkhouser Mrs. Mary C. Gerhard
R. M. Call L. EF. Whaley

A. M. Smith W. G .Wigglesworth
C. E. Swartz Frank Nighswonger
R. S. McClintic J. P. Walker

H. St. G. Carmichael James Quarles
Greenlee Letcher Sc. Paley

T. H. Somerville D. P. Junkin

W. M. McPheeters F. B. Clement

W. D. McSween

 

 

Former W. & L. Star Equals Grange’s Record

The following question appeared in the Big Ten —

Weekly, a paper which covers the field of sports in the
Western Conference:

“T would like to know how often kickoffs have been
returned for touchdowns, whether a runner did it on
the opening kickoff, and whether Grange’s four touch-
downs in the first quarter have ever been duplicated.”

This was the answer: ‘The nearest approach to
Grange’s four touchdowns in the first period that we
ever saw was made by John Barrett of Washington
and Lee against Cornell at Ithaca in 1915. Against
Cornell in that game he ran back the opening kickoff
for a touchdown, made a sixty-yard run three minutes
later for a touchdown returning a punt, and a few min-
utes later caught a pass and ran forty yards for a touch-
down. Washington and Lee led by a score of 21 to 0
at the end of the first quarter, but Barrett was soon
hurt and had to leave the game, Cornell finally winning
24 to 21. The game was to decide the championship
of the United States. Washington and Lee did not

have nearly as strong a supporting team as Grange has
“at Illinois this year.”

Commenting upon the greatest players he had ever
known, Coach Robert C. Zuppke of Illinois said in a
syndicated article: “I think of four men whom [| con-
sider of about equal outstanding ability unless Grange
passes their mark this fall and next. These four are
Johnny Barrett of Washington and Lee, Harold
Poague, Potsy Clark and Harold Grange of Illinois.”

W. V. Ross, ’22, now engaged in the practice of law
in Bluefield, West Virginia, was elected prosecuting
attorney of Mercer County this fall on the Democratic
ticket. 7

Pleas Hobbs, ’22, is a student at Vanderbilt this
year. His home address is Fayetteville, Tennessee.

Hugh W. Moores, ’21, of Fayetteville, Tennessee,
is manager of the William M. Smith Company, whole-
sale dealers in field seeds, grain, etc.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ae

Unpublished Letters of Clovis Moomaw, °|6

o the many friends of the late Clovis
; will be a series of hitherto

Ot interest t
Moomaw among the alumni

unpublished letters which will be printed in this and
line issues of the Alumni Magazine. We are
ea, B. C. Moomaw of Roanoke and
deeply indebted to Dr. 5b. ©. 3
to Clovis Moomaw’s mother,
the use of these letters.
France, June 17, 1918.
Dear Mama and Papa:

Since last writing you I have taken a short journey
by rail and a short march to a small French village
where I have been for a week. We are billeted here
and will probably be here for the summer. Billets is
something I did not thoroughly understand before I
got to France. It is a system of housing the troops
among the civil population. The men are almost all
away. The young women are at the industrial centres.
There are at home only the old women and men and
children. ‘That leaves lots of unoccupied rooms which
are turned over to the officers and sergeants. The
other men live in the sheds and barns where with their
blankets and bed sacks they are quite comfortable.
The arrangement suits the people fine because the sol-

diers are free spenders and always good natured. We.

are rationed from headquarters and have plenty to eat.
Our ration consists of tinned beef, fresh beef, pork,
beans, bread, coffee, dates and rice. The men are in
much better spirits than they have ever been before,
owing to the healthy life they are leading.

I wish you could see this country. It is a treat for
every lover of natural beauty. The fields are all gar-
dens. There are flowers everywhere and as for grass
and. pretty cattle and horses, the best of southwest
Virginia cannot surpass it.

The people that we meet are all of the peasant class.
They are, however, gentle in their manners and quite
good natured. Their homes are all of one pattern. A
frame of wood as cut from the woods is plastered
around with mud and straw and covered with tile. The
mud wall is whitewashed till it admost glistens. There
is only a single story and the floors are concrete. Wood
is scarce, though there are many growing trees. But
the trees can be cut only by getting the permission of
the mayor. A growing tree is seldom touched.

The shape of a typical establishment for the peas-
ants home even in the villages is interesting. The build-
ing forms three sides of a square with the road making
the fourth. The house part is farthest from the road.
The cows and goats, horses and chickens live in the
parts between the residence and the road. The barn
yard is thus the front yard. Back of the residence is
a flower and vegetable garden with the most beautiful
flowers and walks.

This village has only about 200 inhabitants. In

Mrs. D. C. Moomaw, for >

France everybody lives in a village, the villages being
about a mile apart. The people go out from the villages
to work the farms where the men and women work
side by side.

Three women are now standing outside my window
engaging in such a flow of conversation I can hardly
think. Evidently one has a grievance judging from the
sympathetic and consolatory tones of the exclama-
tions of her hearers. I am learning to speak French
very slowly. Now I can make my simplest wants
known and that is all.

I am staying alone with an old lady who looks after
me well. She without my asking her makes my bed,
keeps it supplied with fresh linen and looks after my
washing and darns my socks. I can only say to her in
French “Good day” and ‘Thank you.” |

I could write all night about things that might inter-
est you but I must have something for next time.

Devotedly,
Clovis.

 

| Sunday, June 30, 1918.
Dear Mama and Papa:

Today completes a month since I landed in France.
In a way it seems only yesterday because my days have
been so full that I have not noticed the passage of time.
Yet there is never a day that passes that my heart does

not go back to you. | |

This bright, quiet Sunday I am spending at an Eng-
lish school where I am taking a course. I will be here
for some twenty days yet. We are living in tents in
an old orchard. The ground is velvety with a grass
that resembles our blue grass. There are here today
only two officer students, another American and I. The
other students, all British, left yesterday and the next
course does not open till July 4, so things are very quiet

_ with only the staff about. These British officers are

a fine lot. All have had service at the front and are
here taking instructor’s courses, They returned straight
to their organizations. When I have finished I will
probably be an instructor also.

When I came here I expected to see a lot of griz-
zled, grim men who bore on their faces some of the
experiences they had passed through. Instead I found
a most cheerful lot of young fellows that reminded me
more than anything else of a bunch of American col-
lege men. They get a laugh out of everything con-
nected with the war. They like to talk and it is most
interesting to have them tell of experiences in the line.

As compared with our American hours the hours of
work here are extremely light. We have breakfast at
about 8 and go to classes at 9. We work till 12:30
and return for lunch. We go back at 2 and work till

 

(Continued on page 28)

 

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE TROUBADOURS
BYAe Ee. -L. Gi

The Troubadours, the musical and dramatic organi-
zation of Washington and Lee University, ushered in
its 1924-25 season on November 22, with a Glee Club-
Orchestra concert at Sweet Briar College. The pro-
gram, prepared under the direction of Professor Gra-
ham, included several vocal solos, quartettes, double
quartettes and orchestral numbers. A similar program
will be presented at Hollins College and Southern sem-
inary some time in the near future.

On November 29 the dramatic department of this

organization gave a splendid performance of George »

M. Cohan’s “Seven Keys to Baldpate.” This melo-
dramatic farce was presented in a professional manner
by a capable cast including :

Ee Quimby hid bpp cee es oe oes M. J. Maher
BUNDY oo ie lec es George Harsh, Jr.
William H. Magee..........-+-- W. W. Donnally, Jr.
MNT PLA © Fs ow occ ew ee Rk. H. Thatcher
ES a ee ee C. W. Meadows
Me OMRON oy. ys 3k eo oe ee F. EF. Bade, II
Peters, ie Levant... i ee et ee es Gr. stuart
MWA TMOTMIEIE. vce e ee ei oe Howard Sutton, Jr.
Me eM ea Ste tein «so 2 8 J. M. Boyd
Me GMMR SS hae dae A. W. Pierpont
Thomas Fiayden.... 2... eee G. F. Maynard; Jr.
Stogs Kenmedy...... 6.0. of - John L. Lancaster, Jr.
The Owner of Baldpate............ V. A. Holloman
Two Policemen..........- E. E. Smith, C. V. Allison

To name the stars would require the re-listing of the
cast. The production was staged under the direction
of Joe Clay Roberts, president of the Troubadours,
assisted by S. P. Walker and J. T. Martin.

The Glee Club and Orchestra are preparing a sec-
ond concert to be given during the latter part of Feb-
ruary in Lexington.

On the second day of the Easter Dances, The
Troubadours will present their sixth annual musical
comedy. ‘The show to be staged has not been chosen
as yet. ‘These musical comedies are directed, staged
and costumed by the stent members of the Trouba-

 

 

 

 

dours, and from the wealth of material who have tried
out for the orchestra, the glee club, and the dramatic
branch, an excellent performance seems to be assured.
After the Lexington Premiére of the Easter show, the
manager, H. E. Rietze will arange for a presentation
in several nearby towns. Included, in all probability,
in the itinerary of the musical comedy will be Charles-
ton and Huntington, West Virginia, and Clifton Forge
and Staunton, Virginia.

 

SOCIAL FUNCTIONS

Codperation between the faculty and student body of
Washington and Lee regarding the social life of the
University has resulted in an arrangement that is
beneficial to both phases of student activity. Formerly
the dances were held while the schoolroom work was
at its height, with the result that studies and dances
suffered as a conséquence. Now, however, the dances
are held at times when it is possible for the faculty to
allow holidays for each set. 3

Thanksgiving marked the opening set of the year.
This set was composed of the Cotillion Club dance
led by its president, Jenninson Cooke; and the Sopho-
more Cotillion, led by Charles Crockett, president of
that class. There were many visiting girls and the
dances were enjoyed by faculty and students alike.

On Tuesday, February the fourth, the Nineteenth
Annual Fancy Dress Ball will be held. C. W. Mead-
ows, of Beckley, West Virginia, will lead the main
figure, assisted by Harry Clemmer, of Meadow-
brook, Virginia. H. E. Rietze, of Louisville, Ken-
tucky, the business manager of the ball, will lead the
opening figure. The subject of the Tableaux for this
year’s ball is “The Evolution of the Dance.’”” Arrange-
ments for this affair are well under way and the, ball
promises to be even more brilliant and spectacular than
those of the past. The Junior Prom, led by James
Brookes, will also come at that time.

The Easter dances, will be given by the “13” club
and by the Cotillion club, and will be led by the presi-
dents of those organizations.

Washington and Lee is noted particularly for its Fi-

 

(Continued on next page)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI

N WHALING
IBUTE OF DR. THORNTO
e TO DR. JAMES R. HOWERTON

The Christian Observer of last week published the

following tribute to Dr. Thornton Whaling, of Louis-
ville Presbyterian seminary, to the late Dr. James R.
Howerton of Lexington. |

“Our church has just lost one of its most useful
and honored ministers. In addition to ripe scholar-
ship, he embodied also a rare wisdom and sagacity in
the comprehension of current problems confronting
both church and state, and challenging the best thought
of the educated and Christian mind.

“Dr, Howerton had rendered valued service as a
professor in Stillman Institute, at a time when it re-
quired true courage and spirituality to consecrate his
gifts and attainments to work for the colored race.
The prestige and appeal of the institute was greatly
strengthened by the years this gifted young minister
gave to its service.

“THis pastorates were all successful, but notably so
in Norfolk and the First church, Charlotte. The
strong, biblical, spiritual sermons he habituated his
parishioners to listen to are still discussed and ap-
approved by the well-nigh unanimous voice of his
former charges. While pastor at Charlotte he became
the virtual founder of the great summer assembly at
Montreat, and there ought to be some fitting expres-
sion in the way of a building there as a monument to
the unique service he rendered this wonderful institu-
tion.
~ “Tn church courts his influence was often decisive
and masterful. He was moderator of the assembly at
Birmingham, Alabama, and president of the council of
the Presbyterian and Reformed churches, 1910-1912.

“He was greatest as professor of philosophy at
Washington and Lee, and the books he published tes-
tity to his power of clear, penetrating and well-bal-
anced mastery of the most difficult problems confront-
ing modern thought. In the realms of sociology, psy-
chology and philosophy proper, he perhaps had no
superior and few, if any, peers in our whole church.
His lectures ought to be published as the most lasting
and valuable monument which could be erected to his
memory. ‘The church may well mourn his loss; the
Washington and Lee University will find it difficult te
discover a successor worthy to wear his mantle; and
hosts of students will give thanks that they were privi-
leged to sit in his sane, inspiring and stimulating class
Toom to breathe in at once the reasonable and Chris-
tian faith, whose foundations were laid deep and strong
by the master hand of this gifted professor.”

——————

 

Te .

 

nals, Many alumni return at that time for graduation,
the dances and the annual boat race, and to renew old
acquaintances. |The Finals president this year is

George S. Wilson who is in charge of the week’s ac-
tivities,

MAGAZINE 20

WEDDING BELLS

Mr. B. H. Barrow, Junior, ’21, practicing law in the
firm of Goode and Barrow in Dinwiddie, Virginia,
was married to Miss Harrie Maddux Cato on Septem-
ber 3, 1924. T. X. Parsons, ’20, was best man and R.
C. Wood, °19, was one of the groomsmen. Mr. and
Mrs. Barrow are now living in Dinwiddie, Virginia.

A marriage of much interest to Washington and Lee
alumni occurred in Lexington Saturday evening, No-
vember eighth, when Miss Katherine Glasgow was
married to Mr. Dean Owens, ’21, of Rome, Georgia.
Mr. and Mrs. Owens are making their home in Rome,
Georgia, where Mr. Owens is engaged in the practice
of law.

Berkeley Cox, ’20, and Miss Margaret Preston
Stuart of Abingdon, Virginia, were. married Wednes-
day, October 22, 1924.

A Washington and Lee wedding took place at Em-
poria, Virginia, recently when Miss Mabel Satter-
white and Kenneth F.. Hines, ’24, were married.
Among the groomsmen serving Mr. Hines, five were
Washington and Lee alumni. They were Hagan Min-
nich, Bristol, Virginia; Maple Brannon, Weston, West
Virginia; Albert Walker, Sutton, West Virginia ;
Floyd Daugherty, Emporia, Virginia; and James R.
Fain of Bristol who served at best man.

The bride is well known to alumni and students, hav-
ing attended many Washington and Lee dances.

The marriage of Rev. William M. Miller, ’11 to
Mrs, Isabel Nicholson of Philadelphia on Wednesday,
November 12, will be of much interest to the many
friends of Mr. Miller among the alumni.

William Miller, during his career here, was presi-
dent of the Student Body, stroke on the Harry Lee
crew, and captain of the gym team. He won three
scholarships, the Franklin Society, James J. White, and
Mapleson, and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa. He is
a member of the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity. After
receiving his M.A. from W. and L,. in 1913 he went to
Princeton Theological Seminary. |

Rev. Miller is in this country on a furlough from
Persia where he has served as a missionary for the
past five years.

As the ALuMNr MacazINne& goes to press the news
of Eddie Cameron’s marriage to Miss Nancy ‘Timber-
lake of Staunton has just been announced. ‘The wed-
ding took place in Washington, D. C., at the time of
the Washington and Lee-Maryland football game.

 

Corum M. Cunningham, ex-’22, was married to Miss
Ruby Gertrude Eaton of Bluefield, West Virginia, dur-
ing July. Mr. Cunningham is rapidly becoming one of
the prominent business men of Bluefield.

26 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE CAGE SEASON
(Continued from page 6)

forward to seeing him lead the Generals’ attack during
the season.

Henry Wilson, who will play his second year on the
Varsity, hails from Owensboro, Kentucky, and at-
tended Owensboro High School before coming to W.
and I,. He has just completed his second year as Var-
sity quarterback and is an all-round athlete. His work
at running guard last season drew much praise from
critics of the game throughout this section and he will
be in great shape for the start of the season. “Rudy”
Lane will also start his second year on the Varsity,
having entered Washington and Lee from Durham,
N. C., where he also was a star on his high school team.
Lane and Lake were a combination of forwards which
last year struck terror into the hearts of many an op-
posing team and should be right this year, having be-

come thoroughly familiar with each other’s style of.

play. :

The Varsity substitutes have all had two or more
years’ experience in the game and will furnish Coach
Cameron with a strong reserve list. All were on the
squad last season. The material from last year’s
Freshman team is unusually, promising, Davison and
Van Horn being the two most outstanding men. Van
Horn should give someone a real push for the center
position, while Davison will be out for a guard.

The schedule, while not entirely completed yet, re-
veals the fact that the Generals will take on plenty of
opposition. ‘The season will officially open here on
January 10, no opponent having been named to date.
Following several smaller games, V. P. I. will furnish
the opposition here for the first big game of the sea-
son on January 24, followed in succession by the game
with the University of Kentucky at Lexington, Ken-

tucky, on January 30 and the one against West Vir-|

ginia at Charleston on January 31, which will draw
perhaps the largest crowd of the season. Virginia is to
be met at Charlottesville on February 21. Due to the
fact that the midwinter examinations will be held in
the latter part of January, the schedule had to be some-
what shortened in the matter of the number of games
played and the usual number of home games have
accordingly been curtailed to some extent.

The complete schedule will be shortly, announced.
The following shows those games already scheduled:

January 10—open.

January 12—Wake Forest at Lexington.

January 17—Lynchburg College at Lexington.

January 24—V. P. I. at Lexington.

January 30—University of Kentucky at Lexing-
ton, Ky.

January 31—West Virginia University at Charles-
ton, W. Va.

February 6—University of North Carolina at
Lexington.

February | —open. | |

February 12—Hampden-Sidney at Lexington.

February 14—V. P. I. at Blacksburg, Va.

February 18—open. |

February 20—Davidson at Lexington.

February 21—University of Virginia at Charlottes-
ville, Va. :

February 25—North Carolina State at Raleigh,
N.C.” :

February 26—University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill. 3 :

February 27 to March 3—Southern Conference
Tournament at Atlanta.

BOOKS MOST READ BY COLLEGE STU-
DENTS—THE LIBRARY

(Continued from page 10)

out-of-print material on Southern history, which she
has presented to the library in memory of her father,
and she has also through her wide influence interested
others in establishing similar collections. Mrs. Robert
Neville of Upperville and Judge Regan of Macon,
Georgia, have given generous sums of money for the
purchase of Southern material. To Mrs. Neville’s
fund we owe a long coveted set of Virginiana—Chalk-
ley’s ‘Record of Augusta County” in three volumes.
Bound volumes 27 to 75 of the “Fingineering News,”
with several volumes of much historical interest to the
student of civil engineering were presented to that de-
partment by the family of the late C. W. Paine. Miss
Jeanette R. White and Mrs. Annie White Manor of ©
New Market, Virginia, have started a memorial collec-
tion of Southern books to the memory of V. Everett
Manor, a graduate of the class of 1911. The book
plate for this collection bears a fitting legend from Mil-
ton: “A good book is the precious lifeblood of a mas-
ter-spirit ;” through these books Everett Manor, though
absent in the body, yet speaks to Washington and Lee
men, present and to come, of the ideals and traditions
of the old South, which he studied and loved.

‘Two library assistants, Anna T. Smith and Evelyn
M. Nelson, Estelle Irvine, a page, John Strahorn, W.
D. Mullinix, C. P. Snyder, all student assistants, and
the librarian constitute the present library staff. The
building is open for use continuously from 9 a. m. to
10:30 p. m. every day except Sunday. All Washing-
ton and Lee men near and far are cordially invited to
make use of the resources of the library as they may
need to do so and to call upon the staff for reference
service at any time. Books not in immediate demand
may be loaned to the alumni by mail, and research
work for which we have facilities will be done gladly.

 

 

THE ALUMNI

VICTORIOUS GENERALS, 1924
(Continued from page 5)

crew to a 58-minute scoreless tie. In the last few
moments of play, however, Stinebicker, a 200 pound
substitute fullback entered the game, and after the
Mountaineers had blocked a punt on the Generals 35-
yard line, pounded his way across the line for the only
6 points of the game. It was a magnificent fight, the
White and Blue electing to punt at every opportunity,
Ty Rauber outdistancing the West Virginia kickers,
and keeping the oval out of danger. It was certainly a
great moral victory, one of which every Washington
and Lee man may be proud. |

Thanksgiving day found the Generals at the top of
their form, the White and Blue soundly trouncing the
North Carolina State Wolfpack 34 to 0 in Raleigh.
The result was never in doubt, the Tilson crew dis-
playing an excellence in the grid pastime unsurpassed
this season. Cameron tallied three times, sending his
total of points to 90, second highest in the country.
The passing of Wilson and McVey were other out-
standing features of a brilliant victory during which
the Generals piled up 21 first downs to but two earned
first downs by the losers.

The great season was closed December sixth in Jack-
sonville where the Generals journeyed to meet the
Florida Gators before a huge crowd. ‘The powerful
Van Fleet eleven defeated the White and Blue war-
riors 16 to 6 but the result did not fully convince the
football world that Florida had the better team. Sultry
weather, crucial penalties, subnormal punting by Rau-
ber, and supernatural kicking by Captain Newton,—all
contributed to the defeat of Washington and Lee in a
thrilling battle, featured by the use of the forward
pass. Eddie Cameron closed his grid career by crash-
ing over the line with his sixteenth touchdown of. the
season, as many as was scored by Benkert of Rutgers,
~ high point man of the country. “Bo” McMillan was
brilliant both on offense and defense, while the entire
line in the opinion of many outplayed Florida’s Bree
group of forwards.

And thus ended Washington and ae s splendid sea-
son. Undisputed champions of the state, and rated
high in South Atlantic and Southern races, Coach
De Hart’s smooth- running machine can rest content
with its achievements. Cameron, Thomas, Hawkins,
Tilson, Holt, Wilson, McMillan—in fact practically
every regular on the team received choice or mention
for All-Southern or All-South Atlantic elevens, the
first two especially securing much favorable publicity.

From present indications, almost all men who played
this year with the exception of Cameron who will be
ineligible, will return next year to make the 1925 sea-
Son as successful as the 1924 one has been.

MAGAZINE : a7

FOOTBALL MONOGRAMS AWARDED AT
DINNER GIVEN BY ALUMNI

By Larrp Y. THOMPSON, 24

On the evening of December 10, at the Washington
and Lee Dining Hall, the local alumni gave a dinner
in honor of the Varsity and Freshmen football teams.
E,. P. Davis presided as toastmaster in Eddie’s incom-
parable style. Short speeches were made by many of
the faculty, alumni, and players—notably President
Smith, Graduate Manager R. A. Smith, Dean More-
land, Coach James De Hart, Student Body President
J. C. Morrison, Captain Tilson, Freshman Captain
Howe, Manager Hummer, ex-Captain Cameron (sec-
ond high scoring back of the United States), and Stuart
Moore. Monograms were awarded to the following :
Coach De Hart, Manager ‘Hummer, Captain Tilson,
Thomas Stemmons, Budnick, Hawkins, Holt, Daves,
Cameron, Rauber, Wilson, McVey, McMillan, Palmer,
W. V. Terry, Van Horn, and H. A. Dawson. Nu-
merals were also awarded to members of the Fresh-
man team. At a meeting immediately after the
award of monograms, James K. Thomas was chosen
to captain the 1925 Generals. The choice is a very
popular one, for Kay’s work during the past two sea-
sons has stamped him as one of the sam
ends of the country. f

As tokens—though by no means as full measures—
of their esteem and respect for De Hart, as a coach’and
as a man, the football team, the Washington and Lee
student body, and the Lexington alumni, gave “Jimmy”
appropriate presents. The Freshman team presented
Coach Davis with a similar token. As a fitting climax
to this most pleasant aftermath to the wonderfully suc-
cessful 1924 season, “Dick’’? Smith announced the
Schedule for 1925, as follows:

Sept. 26—University of Pittsburgh, at Pibiepdten:
Oct. 3—Open for home game.

Oct. 10—Princeton, at Princeton, N. J.

Oct. 17—Kentucky, at Lexington, Ky.

Oct 245 -V OP 1, ae Lauchbure, Ve.

Oct. 31—West ae at Charleston, W. Va.
Nov. /—Virginia, at Lexington, Va.

Nov. 14—Maryland, at Washington, De.

Nov. 21—North Carolina State, at Lexington, Va.
Nov. 28—Florida, at Jacksonville, Fla.

/ Make your plans now to see as many games as pos-
sible of what we believe to be the best schedule ever
arranged for a Washington and Lee football team. e

 

J. W. wisesenkey 24, writes that he tried his’ first
case in the district court at Brownwood, Texas, —
ing November.

Isaac D. Smith, ’15, of Petersburg, West Virginia,
has been reélected to his third term as Prosecuting At-
torney of Grant County.

28 — ‘THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

Mat G. Henderson, ’20, has just finished his pub-
licity campaign for Governor Morrison and his Port
Terminal bill for the state of North Carolina. The
bill received much public notice but was defeated.

S. A. Hartzo, ’20, is a graduate student at Colum-
bia University. His address is 420 West 121st Street,
Apartment 56, New York City.

'T. Harvey Wilkinson, ex-’22, is manager of the
branch of Efird’s Department Stores located at Golds-
boro, North Carolina.

W. V. Bierer, ex-’22, is manager of Efird’s Depart-
ment Store at Statesville, North Carolina.

Jim Jenning, ’23, of Fayetteville, Tennessee, is at-
tending Bryson College.

W. T. Harding, Junior, ’23, is engaged i in the whole-
sale grocery business at Emporia, Virginia. :

George Mercke, ’24, is at present in Louisville, Ken-
tucky, with the Jefferson Woodworking Company.

‘G. B. Simmons, ex-’25, is a student at Columbia
University living at 412 West 115th STE New York
City.

HM. KK Lorralite: 91, of Orlando, Florida, is jade
of the Justice Court.

‘Charles Bagley, ’07, is Vice President of the First
National Bank of Fayetteville, Tennessee. —

Mr.‘and Mrs. E. B. Schultze have announced the
birth of E. B., Junior, on November seventeenth. We
now have the ss of another great tackle. Ted
Schultz, ’15, is “Y” Secretary at the see of
Kansas, ae ‘Kansas.

T. O. Bagley, ’07, of | Hayelteuilte is engaged in the
insurance and real estate business.

‘Luther G. Scott, ’08, of Bluefield, West Virginia,
was the Republican candidate for the ‘legislature dur-
ing the past campaign. He was defeated but ran 500
votes ahead of the party.

Earle K. Paxton, ’09, is doing ecothiatn work at
Columbia University this year.

Wilbur L. Tilden, ’10, is judge of the Criminal Court
of Orlando, Florida.
“Chick” Evans,
branch of Hanan and Son, shoe merchants. We have
just learned of the arrival of Norvin Charles, pee

on September -tenth.

Albert Sidney Cummins, ’14, after Saline his. M.A.
at Columbia, is teaching mathematics in the Morristown
School, Morristown, New Jersey.

The following Washington and Lee men are study-
ing medicine at the University of Pennsylvania : R,
Van Leatherman, ’24, David C. T. Tseng, ’23, Harold T.
Garard, ’22, J. P. Long, ’24, and T. Preston White, 717.

. A son, David Hutzler, was born to Dr. and Mrs.
Solomon Schaefer (04): during November. Dr.
Schaefer is in charge of a tuberculosis sanitarium at
Colorado Springs, Colorado.

16, is manager - of ‘the Pidebure

Harry Rectinwald,
burgh. ' |

Lieutenant-Colonel C. N. Feamster, 703, of Lewis-
burg, West. Vnrginia, has moved his family to Lex-
ington where he expects to educate his children. Col-
onel Feamster did important work in Europe under the
provisions of the Versailles Treaty, spending over two
years in the occupied portion of Germany. He was
president of his class at W. & L. ,

William T. Hanzsche, M.A., ’13, is pastor of the
Prospect Street Presbyterian Church.of Trenton, New
Jersey, ard lives at 347 Spring Street, Trenton. Rev.
Hanzsche’s church is known as the “live church of the
state capital’ and issues a weekly bulletin which we
of the Alumni office have found most interesting.

Elwood Seal, 13, of Seal and Dice, Attorneys, i
also a Professor of Law at the Knights of EOlache
Evening School of Washington, D. C. Mr. Seal con-
tinues to be very active in Alumni work in the District.

_ Stiles Ashby, ’22, is with the Ashby Motor Com-
pany of Fayetteville, Tennessee.

H. M. Blain, M.A., ’04, is director of the Louisiana-
Mississippi Chauniies on Public Utility Information.
His committee issues bi-weekly an attractive leaflet
giving inside information about public utilities. Mr.
Blain’s address is 1125 Hibernia Building, New Or-

"10, is ‘practicing law in Pitts-

leans.

Milton W. Humphreys, M.A., 69, has recently pub-
lished in pamphlet form a ae of the Lynchburg
Campaign (1864). Until his retirement in 1912, Mr.
Humphreys was Professor of Greek at the University
of Virginia, and has written quite extensively for vari-
ous journals.

De). Y. Harry, 72, of Gulfport, Mississippi, is
President of the First National Bank; Chairman of
the Board of Directors, Gulf Park College’ and Chair-
man of the Board of Directors, Gulf Coast Military
Academy, all of that city.

In addition to his private practice as abcialtst in
diseases of the eye, ear, nose and throat, Dr. John Mon-

roe Banister, 74, is an Associate Professor in the Col-

lege of Medicine, University of Nebraska, located at:
Omaha. Dr. Banister is also Acting Chief of Staff of
the Wise Memorial Hospital.

The Alumni office has received a letter from Rev.
James R. Winchester, M.A., ’77, of Little Rock, Ar-
kansas, who was one of the guard of honor at the
death of General Lee when his body was in state, pre-
paratory for burial in the chapel. Bishop Winchester
writes of General Lee as follows: ‘His immortal name
became associated with that of Washington, the father
of his country, to designate the grandest university on
earth, whose standard of honor is lifted high, and
whose sons have carried their honor system into their
life’s work.

Humphrey Ambler, ’84, is teaching at Charles Town,
West Virginia.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

J. J. Allen, 69, of Louisburg, North Carolina, has
been incapacitated on account of a lame back.

Dr. Charles A. Graves, M.A., ’69, is a professor in

the Law Department of the University of Virginia.

Honorable Andrew Edmiston, ’72, recently under-
went a major surgical operation at Johns Hopkins
Hospital in Baltimore. Since that time he has been
confined to his apartments in Weston, West Virginia,
being treated for ailments consequent to his operation.
We are happy to say that Mr. Edmiston has suffi-
ciently recovered to be able to send his subscription to
the ALUMNI MaGaAZzINE.

Dr. William ‘Taylor Thom, ’69, for twenty-one years
on the Editorial Staff of the United States Geological

Survey, retired in December, 1922. During the past:

few months he has been active in connection: with. the
reprinting of “Recollections and Letters of General
Robert I. Lee,” by Captain R. E. Lee, Junior, to which
Dr. Thom has made several contributions.

—— __

UNPUBLISHED LETTERS: OF CLOVIS”
MOOMAW, ’16

(Continued from page 2)

four when we return for tea, when we have tea, bread:

and butter and jam. We have nothing to do then till

7:30 when we have dinner. Then the evening is ours. J]

The village here is small and just exactly like all the
rest. There is nothing to do but play auction and chat
as candles are rather poor to read by.

The only thing pretty I have seen in France is the
country which is beautiful. ‘The country churches are
old, dilapidated and built without any display of art.

The beautiful women I have heard of must be in the

cities. ‘The houses are all huts and the peasants are a
sorry looking lot on the outside. Yet they must have
hearts of gold as evidenced by their patriotism, faith
and industry.
Love,
Clovis.

 

Compliments

STUDENTS’ PRESSING
SHOP

 

W. C. FIREBAUGH

INSURANCE ADVISOR

———

Rockbridge County’s Largest Agency Built
by Giving Service
Rooms 4 and 5, Rockbridge National Bank Building
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA |

 

 

Lyons Tailoring Co.

TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

——

COME IN OR WRITE US

 

 

 

~ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents —

 

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

WEINBERG’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

HOME, COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

COBB'S PRESSING SHOP

Dry Cleaning

PRESSING DYEING

 

Sandwiches Delivered Anywhere ,
to Students

Lexington Restaurant

 

 

 

PERSONALS

Henry C. Getzendanner, B.L., ’79, is now Postmas-
ter at Charles Town, West Virginia. Mr. Getzendan-
ner writes that he would like to hear from members
of the law class. of 1879.

Dallas Flannagan, ’88, is Judge of thes Court of
Common Pleas, Newark, New Jersey.

A dispatch from Danville, Virginia, states that a
boom for Greenlee D. Letcher, ’89, for governor was
launched there at a banquet tendered by the Danville
alumni of the Virginia Military Institute as a feature
of Armistice Day. Captain Letcher is the son of the
late John Letcher, Opyer nor of Virginia during the
Civil War.

We have just received news of the death of E. C. R.
Humphreys, 91, of Washington, D. C. Mr. Hum-
phreys was active in the practice of law and also on
the staff of the Washington Star. He was buried in
Lexington.

Honorable Ransom Gillette, 96, represented Wash-.
ington and Lee in the centennial celebration of the Van
Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, at Troy, New York,
on October first.

“What's What” is edited and published by Bernard
R. Walzer, 07, in Orlando and Orange County,
Florida.

 

A PORTO RICAN TRAGEDY

Two years ago during Dr. Howe’s one-year vacation
his place was fillea by Prof. J. Russell Winslow, then a
distinguished research-chemist with the General Elec-
tric Company. His year at W. and L. was both happy
and successful, as he and the University were equally
delighted.

This fall he accepted the position of head of the De-
partment of Chemistry in the University of Porto
Rico. |

All his many friends will learn with deep sorrow
and regret that a few days ago while bathing in the
surf he was attacked by a monster barracuda shark and
so horribly wounded that he died a few hours later
on the operating table of the hospital in spite of the
efforts of the surgeons, and the willing supply of blood
by three of his devoted friends.

The President of the Student Body of the Univer-
sity of Florida writes a letter thanking the Washington
and Tee Alumni for the splendid cooperation which
was given the Florida Alumni in making such a suc-
cess of the Washington and Lee-Florida football game.
Among other things, Mr. Yates says:

“We love your great old institution, and we have

warm places in our hearts for all of you; and we are

especially ‘grateful for the splendid work which you

have done in assisting us to ‘put over’ the game.”

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

From Bob Ignico, ’16, to Mercer Graham, ’19

Camp Nicholas, Rizal, P. I.
July 26, 1924.

My dear Mercer: 7

I have been intending to write you for quite some
time and for no reason whatsoever have neglected to
do so. Of course, I could plead heavy work, etc., as
an excuse, but I don’t think it would get very far with
you. I dropped you a card from Honolulu which I
suppose you have received. Incidentally you have my
address and you might have cut your sleep short a few
minutes and written me.

Trip from Lexington to San Francisco was more
or less dull and not very interesting. Spent a few days
in San Francisco looking around and boarded the trans-
port on December sixth. Had an extremely rough trip
to Honolulu where we were met by a number of friends
and spent three delightful days. Had a good oppor-
tunity to see most of the Island of Oahu, together with
the famed Waikiki Beach, which, by the way, is greatly
overrated and doesn’t compare either in size or bathing
facilities with Virginia Beach. However, it is a de-
lightful place with a fine climate, and I suppose inter-
esting provided you don’t have to stay there long.
After leaving Honolulu we put in at Guam for a very
short stay, and of all the lonesome isolated places on
the earth’s surface this is one of them. The arrival of
the transport every few months is a legal holiday. The
poor outcasts stationed there all come on down to the
shore to get a glirnpse of the outside world, for the

transport furnishes them their food, mail, newspapers,

etc. After leaving Guam we next saw land at the San
Bernardino Straits. First glimpse of the Philippines
is not very good, for in that section population is very
sparse and the coast is rocky and uninviting. We
cruised through the Straits passing the Island of Min-
doro in the south, and the Verde Island Passage into
the China Sea; and in a day and a half after first sight-
ing land, passed by Corregidor into Manila Harbor
landing on January first. Although the cool season

 

had set in, it was hot as the devil, more so because we
were dressed in woolens. The trip on the whole was
rather enjoyable, although we were unfortunate enough
to have an epidemic of measles aboard after leaving
Guam; and rather than to be cheated of their share,
my three youngsters were taken ill with them.

I am stationed at Camp Nichols, with the Philippine
Air Depot, but as there are no quarters at this station
we are living in Manila. While it is a bit more expen-
sive to live here, it is rather nice because Manila af-
fords the best accommodations in the Far East. Camp
Nichols is situated about five kilometers south of Ma-
nila on a fairly good road. As for the flying field, it
is more or less of a nightmare and I often wonder why
in the devil it was put here. The house we occupy
faces Manila Harbor at a section known as Pasay
Beach. The kids, in fact all of us, enjoy the bathing
very much. In spite of all that you read in the news-
papers, the place is very peaceful and quiet and any
agitation is confined to a certain very small group
within the city. One is always impressed by the uni-
form courtesy and politeness of the F ilipinos. I haven’t
been out in the provinces as much as I would like and
so far my travels have been confined to the Island of
Luzon, utilizing in these wanderings my flivver and
aircraft. From the layman’s point of view, I think
this place has a tremendous potential wealth and could
be made very productive provided they have the popu-
lation necessary to do it with. In traveling over the
country, the thing that strikes the eye first, from the
air, is the tremendous amount of unoccupied land and
the relatively small amount that is under cultivation.
The soil is very productive and by scientific farming
could be made to do most anything. At the close of the
Spanish-American War, our Government inaugurated
a system of public schools patterned closely on the pub-
lic school system in the States and great progress has

 

 

(Continued on next page)

 

bine so many merits of quality and _ style, economy, strength and beauty in your home as face brick.

requirements of both good taste and a thrifty purse.

values it offers—permanence, comfort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty.

with us before deciding.
tions.

GLASGOW CLAY PRODUCTS COMPANY. Inc

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Members American Face Brick Association

 

We challenge contradiction in saying that there is no other building material which, taken all in all, will com-

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple, and yet combines that strength and beauty which meets the
Other materials have their merits and make their appeal,
but looking at the building problem on all sides, no other material approaches brick in the structural and artistic
You should talk the matter over
It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most valuable and practical sugges-

 

 

32 _ THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

HAMRIC & SMITH

JEWELERS

Washington and Lee Belts
Seal Rings and College Jewelry

Prompt Mail Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

Cc. M. LAMBERT,Pres. and Treas. . S. K. LAMBERT, Sec’y

Lambert Manufacturing Co

Contractors for Buildings

All Kinds  WAYNESBORO, VA.
Building Material

MILLWORK CONTRACTORS

for the
NEW BETA HOUSE and
GRAHAM DORMITORY

The Chas. H. Elliott Co.

The Largest College Engraving House in the World

 

Commencement Invitations Class Day Programs
Class Pins and Rings

Dance Programs and Invitations, Menus
Leather Dance Cases and Covers
Fraternity and Class Inserts for Annuals
Fraternity and Class Stationery
School Catalogs and Illustrations
Wedding Invitations, Callin gCard

: Seventeenth Street and Lehigh Avenue,
Philadelphia

PERSONALS

H. St. George T. Carmichael, ’99, General Super-
intendent of the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Company,
Louisville, announces the birth of Stanrod Tucker on
July 27, 1924. Mr. Carmichael has one son at V. M.
I., and another at Ogden College who expects to enter
Washington and Lee in 1927.

Frank L. Bushong, ’00, is practicing law at Charles
Town, West Virginia.

Thomas J. Grove, 02, farmer and live stock dealer
of Petersburg, West Virginia, has been elected to the
House of Delegates, West Virginia Legislature, on the
Democratic ticket.

C. R. Pilkington, 03, of Orlando, Florida, is con-
nected with the American Fruit Growers of that city.

W. B. Crawford, ’03, is City Attorney of Orlando,
Florida. | 3
Battle Bagley, 16, is teaching and coaching athlet-
ics at the County High School, Fayetteville, T’enn-
essee.

>

 

Tee ee ree eee eee ee mneRIAA
ee

 

 

 

 

FROM BOB IGNICO, ’16, TO MERCER
GRAHAM, ’19 .

(Continued from preceding page)

been made along this line. However, I believe that too
little attention has been paid to trade, mechanical, and
agricultural schools; for after all it is the great class
of workers that make a country great. The people here
take to education very well and most of them are very
ambitious to attain an education of some sort. In fact,
it is quite a problem to keep in schools all that would
like to go with the funds available to keep up the
school system.

I am looking forward some time toward the end of
the year to making a trip to the Southern Islands, tak-

ing in Mindanao, Jolo, and perhaps. Borneo. I am

also making arrangements to take a peek at China in
the spring. But most of all, [ am looking forward to
November of 1925 when I start back home.
, Your friend,
BOB. sete

 

Specialists in College Printing
EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

‘Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Service

Quality

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

Reasonable ‘Prices

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7 cae 33

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY'S

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

“McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Onexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

DRAWER 897

Dear Mr. Kemp: ?

I witnessed the game yesterday between Washing-
ton and Lee and West Virginia and I felt mighty
proud of the way our team played football. I wish
you would tell our fellows that there was nothing to
feel bad about in that game. I believe they played
the best football I have ever seen our team play and
while it was very disappointing to see West Virginia
carry the ball over the line in the last few minutes of
playing, when it looked so much as if it would be a tie
game, nevertheless the stand the boys made when
West Virginia had the ball so close to the line before
meant to me, and I am sure to the other alumni pres-
ent, almost as much as victory.

I am proud of our team this year and I heard a great
amount of favorable comment about them yesterday
and I want them to know it. Will you please tell them
for me.

With best wishes, I am
; Yours very truly,
DoziER A. DEVANE.

A CHEERFUL GIVER

Dear Mr. Penick:

It gives me pleasure to enclose a check for seventy-
five dollars to apply on my subscription to the Endow-
ment Fund. It has been a source of great regret to me
that I have been unable to meet these obligations
sooner.

I have been much interested in recent bulletins is-
sued from your cffice, and am proud of the progress
the old college is making, and wish it continued suc-
cess. |

With personal regards and best wishes, I am

Yours very truly,
ALEX. McC. Hamiurron, B.A., ’03.

From F. B. Wess, ’89

“It is probable that these few notes of my where-
abouts and how time is serving one of the old W. and
L,. Boys may reach the eye of some of my former col-
lege-mates; and so for the purpose of drawing from

 

(Continued on next page)

34 aa THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DRAWER 897 —
(Continued from preceding page)

some of them an ‘account of themselves,’ I wish them
to know that I have been a citizen of the magic City

of Birmingham, Alabama, now for several years. I

was glad to see a short note from the pen of Judge
Peyton Hobson, who was a student with me, and from
old Kentucky. I wish the Judge to know that I am
still in the land of the living, and able to do full work.
Let the ‘old’ men of W. & L, tell us something of
themselves.”

These lines are from F. B. Webb of sessions 1887-

1888 and 1888-1889.
From “Dave” Pipxs, ’06

“Dave” Pipes, ever-popular member of the class of
‘06 and an enthusiastic alumnus, writes: “My activi-
ties to date consist in having enough work to keep me

all-fired busy and enough debt to keep me everlast-_

ingly worried. I have acquired a wife and four chil-
dren and as a result am able to call myself blessed.”

Mr. Pipes is general manager of the estate of A. C.
Minor at Houma, Louisiana. His work entails the
management of a mammoth sugar plantation in south-
ern Louisiana. Mr. Elliott Jones, B.S., ’07, has been
associated with Mr. Pipes as assistant general manager
for several years.

My dear Mr. Kemp:

I congratulate you heartily upon your first issue of
the ArumNr Macazine. Last night I read it from
cover to cover with great enjoyment. I enclose here-
with check for my subscription.

With best wishes for the success of the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE and the continued sound growth of Wash-
ington and Lee, I remain

Very sincerely yours,
W. R. Vance, ’92.

Dear Mr. Kemp:

I hasten to congratulate you on the first issue of
the ArumNni Macazine which has just come to my
desk. This issue gives me great promise for your

alumni and you have merited praise in your success of
bringing it about. I have found in the four years of
a regular alumni publication in this institution, that
there is nothing else quite so good for drawing your
alumni toward the institution as this, and I believe
you will find the same true.

As secretary of the alumni of the institution which
graduated General Dawes, I congratulate you in having
such among your alumni body as Hon. John W. Davis,
whom we respect greatly here. One of the men in |
this city whom I know well, Mr. George White was
one of the original Davis men, and he gives us the best
accounts of Mr. Davis we have had.

Very truly yours,
GEORGE J. BLAZIER,
Secretary, Marietta College Alumni Assn.

Mr. Verbon E. Kemp,

Dear Sir:

I received the first copy of the ALumNr MacazIn¢
and eagerly devoured the contents. I think the first
number was a peach, and if it is a taste of what is to
come I know every alumnus will become a subscriber.

I am enclosing my check for $5.50 for my subscrip-
tion to the Macazrne and also the Directory.

Yours truly,
Wintuiam L,. Leap, ’23,

 

University Suppiy Store, Inc.

 

BOOKS, STATIONERY, SUPPLIES
AND
ATHLETIC GOODS
Attractive Book Ends for Office Use

 

 

 

Office Phone 444

 

G. G. HARRIS
Contractor for ‘Plumbing and Heating

| Room 13, Knowles Building
Residence Phone 1008
STAUNTON, VA.

Estimates furnished promptly on any size job any where.

Plumbing and Heating Contractor for New Chemistry Building

Box 60

 

 

—

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

 

—_a—

ROBEY’S BUS LINE
Prompt Service

Buena Vista—Lexington
Staunton —Lexington

WE MEET ALL GRAINS

Buena Vista Phone No. 3 Lexington Phone No. 62

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, V

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

» Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

 

 

 

 

(2ollege & (School

Printers & Stationers

Fine Stationery and Engraving
Office Equipment and Supplies
‘College Publications

Fraternity Publications

We would appreciate your inquiries which will
receive our prompt and careful attention

 

INDIAN PRESS

SURBER-ARUNDAIE (©MPANY

PUBLISHERS: PRINTERS STATIONERS:
CHARLOTTESVILLE «-: VIRGINIA

 

:

 

 

 

 

 

        

~s
= .
.e* » -
mel <
i 7
i E a
aa ey
| Parag
om SS
Mims. 0 a
a OK (—
SER ee
«1 — Fy se "
~~ —
— ats &
—ERSS
_— - -
a i
w >
4 et
feolle
sft Se
ES i 5

q
i
eth be
cuit. \(V(V
Stn

Design of
Finchley House

= | Cambridge,

Suggested by ‘‘ Backs’?
of Old Trinity College,
Lin gland

NOTICE

PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT IN
THE NEW LOCATION, IN FIFTH
AVENUE,.FINCHLEY HAS AR-
‘RANGED A UNIQUE, COMFORT-
ABLE, AND RATHER EXTRAOR-
DINARY. FILO-OR WHIGd “Fe
DEVOTED -EAXCLOSIVELP Fa
THE DISPLAY OF WEARABLES
FOR COLLEGE: MEN SPLITS
OVERCOALZS, HAPS SHOES
SHIRTS, WOOLIES AND VARIOUS
ACCESSORIES “Of. NOTABLE
Slee . Ame: OFF 4 Lar) ee

[FIN CTETELLEAY

Fifth Avenue at 46™ Stre
NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Circulation and Advertising
A substantial net paid ki is necessary before the

proper volume of advertising can be secured and advertising is nec-
essary for the existence of the Alumni Magazine.

Many alumni received the first issue of the Alumni Magazine
and wrote most commendatory letters about it but failed to send in
their subscriptions. The Alumni Magazine is two dollars for five
issues, bi-monthly during the school year. Cut out the subscription

: blank below and mail to Verbon E. Kemp, Alumni Secretary,
Drawer 897.

Pere Pe OOO eee He OOOH HT EHE REESE ES ORES ESEESESESE EE SEES EEE SESH CE RE TEES CEO TEOE SESE HEH ESEHE DEES EE EH HEHEH OOH SEER OES OEOHH SOOO SHEE COOH OSES EEOEEEHE HHO E EEE EEEEEOSH HL EEHEERODEOSE:

ALUMNI, INCORPORATED,
Lexington, Virginia.

Gehtlemen:

I am enclosing herewith my check for two dollars covering a eenenas to
the ALUMNI Macazine for one year.

BR. SO Rh Oh OL O 26 0 ee 8 8 ee 08 e fee ee ee ere we Oe 08 858i e 0) Oe ee 0 eee | 6) 0) Fee ie pee.) el Ostet ver ce 6 er eae
PC Xe e 0 Oe Oe ne Se (ee) 6 6 eB 5 Oy Leer ee ee eee ee oe CCL OCG e 1g 58 0 ee Oe See | 8 ae en eh ren te 8 FOr Gr se er we eee

OG 0 et e858. ee ee ee 8 8 ok aH eee eee Oe 6 8 Oe @) 8.8 6 6 8 ee ee Oe Oe ae eee ei 6 6) OF ee ee Se

 

 

 

 

