 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE,

Washington and Lee University

 

 

 

 

 

ey et MARCH, 1925 No. 3

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Jupce Martin P. Burks, ’70 .
LieRARY OF *
WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY
: taxinGT@w «Cj ltl
$2.00 Per Year 40c Per Copy

 

 

 

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This directory is published for the purpose of affording a convenient guide to Washington and Lee alumni of
the various professions who may wish to secure reliable correspondents of the same profession to transact business

at a distance, or of a special professional character.

tion are in a posi

rectory. Rates on application.

Alumni of all professions who by reason of specialty or loca-
tion to be of service to the alumni of the same profession are invited to place their cards in the di-

 

 

K. I. McKay, ’04
R. W. Withers, ’05
M. B. Withers, 10

McKAY AND WITHERS
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
Tampa, Florida

VINCENT M. MILES

Member of Firm

Pryor AND MILEs
Attorneys at Law

Fort Smith,

Arkansas

PAUL D. BARNS
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Miami, Florida
Firm of Thompson, Barns & Thompson

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAwyer

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 926-927: Robson-Prichard Building,
Huntington, West Virginia

 

General Civil Practice Throughout
Eastern Kentucky
BEN D. SMITH, ’14

Member oF Ben V. SmitH AND Son,
Lawyers
Somerset, Kentucky

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS

Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6401 Philadelphia

 

ELWOOD H. SEAL
SEAL AND DIcE

Attorneys at Law
General practice in the courts of the
District of Columbia and Federal
Departments
Associate Income Tax Specialists
1100 Investment Building,

New York Office: 61 Broadway
Stuart CHEVALIER, ’03
MILLER AND CHEVALIER

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT LAW
Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

L. H. CARLOCK
ATTORNEY AT LAW

LaFollette, Tennessee

 

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, 713
ATTORNEY AT LAW

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

 

Compliments of the President of the
Alumni, Inc.

E. C. CAFFREY, ’09

 

 

Washington, D. C.

ALEX M. HITZ

ATTORNEY AT LAW

210 Atlanta Trust Company Building,
Atlanta, Georgia

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN AND TUCKER
LAw OFFICES

Commercial National Bank Building,
Shreveport, Louisiana

 

CARLTON D. DETHLEFSEN, ’15

ATTORNEY AT LAW

Suite 479 Mills Building,

San Francisco, California

 

LAURENCE CLAIBORNE WITTEN, ’10

General Agent

Department of Southern Ohio

Massachusetts Mutual Life Insurance Company

1625 Union Trust Building
Cincinnati

W. and L,., Virginia, Cincinnati, Yale, Michigan, Ohio State and Kenyon are represented in this Agency. There

are usually one or two openings for exceptionally good college men.

the preference.

Applications from W. and L. alumni have

 

 

 

-

 

a
E. P. DAVIS, President Cc. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

General Headquarters for W. and L. Men

School Supplies, Books, Stationery, Athletic Goods, Haberdashery
Alumni Are Always Welcome

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED

° Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
E. C. Carrrey, President Verbon E. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GrawaM, Jr., Treasurer I. V. Davies, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager 7 Lexington, Virginia

 

General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

PAGE PAGE

Robert P. Doremus, Mysterious Benefactor... 5 Alumnus in Charge of Cave Rescue Work........cccccseeeeeeeees 16
Board of Trustees Passes Resolutions on McCormick Gift 6 Fred Valz a Power in Florida 17
Judge and Mrs. Martin P. Burks Celebrate Golden Wed- Doak Smithson Edits 1911 Law Class Annual.......scssssseee 17
ding Anniversary. ........+.+ 6 E. T. Coman Prominent Pacific Coast Alummnus..........0 18
Judge T. H. Harvey, ’68 7 Matthew Page Andrews, Historian and Educator................ 19
Alumni Meetings Held January 19 8 Photographs from Henry Boley’s Kodak Album........ 20 and 21
Minutes of the Louisiana Alumni Association, January Joseph John Allen Will Compete in, North Carolina Contest 22
SUID * <.:sccocacosceocaad aanemibanalaigts 8 J. W. Garrow Prominent in Cotton Industry.......csccsseseeseeees 22

My Ambition for Washington and Lee Alumni Incor- John G. Herndon, Jr., Authority on Taxes 23
porated. Edwin C. Caffrey 9 Another Successful Lawyer from the Class of ‘14... 24

A Review of the Boxing and Wrestling Teams to Date. A Valuable Proposal from Rev. W. T. Hanzsche.............+ 24
Walton H. Bachrach........ 10 John H. Tucker 25
BE PS OOTIOCES ©... 1.ccoceceseccocleassenueeaenanaenaen 10 Paul A. Rockwell Named Knight of Legion of Honot........ 25
ES | Se ae 11 So This Is Lexington! Stuart Moore 26
A Noteworthy Distinction for Washington and Lee............ 12 Beta Theta Pi Fraternity House Completed............cccceeeeees 26
Robert E. Lee Memorial Hall in Greece 12 War Letters of Clovis Moomas 27
Professor Tucker to Head Tax Reform Work...........cseeeee 12 Dick Morales Builds Handsome Home 28
Jacksonville Alumni. .... 13 CDpinnke”” PGBS: su. vsscckevesch sodsvsbsvecscecseistpncs vetachiindiseeliaiccioacedsss Mises 28
To the Washington and Lee Alumni. Henry Louis Smith 14 From Lidell Peck 28
The Heart of the Giver 14 Career of C. A. Robbins............ 28
I 15 Death Notices 29
W. and L. Man, Named Chief of Infantry 16 The Fancy Dress Ball................ 29
Student Frew with the Pittsburgh Pirates 16 Drawer 897 29
W. W. Sager with the Mayo Brothers 16 An Interesting Baseball Schedule at W. and L. This Spring 30

’
BOLEY’S BOOK STORE
RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50
(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

 

 

    
  
 

ROBERT PARKER DOREMUS

Mysterious Benefactor

DOREMUS GYMNASIUM

 

 

ertat,! ‘Ni it =
ti) “al - *!

4 Py

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

Vo. |

MARCH 1925

No. 3

 

 

Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated

 

 

Robert P. Doremus, Mysterious Benefactor

By Jupce Cuaries J. McDermort, Trustee.

The memory of Robert P. Doremus will, of course,
never be treasured by American historians as are the
names of the beloved and illustrious founder and pre-
server of this institution, but the friends of Washing-
ton and Lee must ever be conscious of the fact that
because Doremus lived, because in contemplation of
death, he took into account the future welfare and
needs of this University, substantial benefits have ac-
crued, and will accrue to the student body of a truly
great and historic American institution.

After the death of Mr. Doremus, the question was
often asked, and even now is sometimes repeated,
“Who was Robert P. Doremus and why did he name
Washington and Lee University as the residuary bene-
ficiary in his will?” |

It has lately been suggested that answers to these
questions may still be of interest to the students,
alumni, trustees, faculty, and friends of the college.

Robert P. Doremus was not a Southerner by birth,
as many people have assumed, but was born on Feb-
ruary 19, 1858, at Jersey City, New Jersey. His father
was a native son of New Jersey. His mother was
born in Maryland. Doremus grew up in Jersey City
and lived there until his marriage to Miss Raymond.
For a short time he attended Columbia University and
“worked his way through.” He left his student life
and after spending a few months in Maryland, re-
turned to his home and became a clerk in the stock
brokerage house of Jacquelin and De Coppet Broth-
ers. His exceptional ability and sterling character were
recognized by his employers, and with their assistance
he became a member of the New York Stock Exchange
in 1885. Less than six years after he joined the Ex-
change he was elected a member of the Governing
Committee, and during his very active life and useful
career such was the confidence reposed in him that
he became a member of many of the most important
Exchange committees.

During the panic of 1893 Mr. Doremus was in charge
of the Stock Exchange Clearing House. He signally
distinguished himself at this time by carrying this new
and then untried, but now most important, institution
through this turbulent maelstrom.

While Mr. Doremus was a studious, thoughtful, dis-
cerning and most. efficient and businesslike man, he
Possessed a keen sense of humor. He was powerful
Physically, often brusque, but ever thoughtful, kind

and considerate. He was endowed with great initiative
and tenacity of purpose. While he applied himself
closely to his business, he never forgot his friends.
He died beloved and respected by his business asso-
ciates, and to those who knew him as he was known
to the writer, the recollection of his friendship is a
memory that can never die.

Mr. Doremus accumulated his fortune as the result
of industry and unremitting effort. At the time of his
death he was a member of the firm of De Coppet and
Doremus, one, if not the largest, of the New York
stock exchange houses known as “Odd Lot” dealers.
It would take too long at this time to explain this par-
ticular specialty of trading upon the New York Stock
Exchange, which has for its basis the buying and sell-
ing of shares of stock in multiples of less than one
hundred shares, but the business, once insignificant, is
now recognized as a most important and stabilizing in-
fluence in the financial world.

Though constantly employed in business affairs,
still Mr. Doremus found time for recreation. He was
conceded to be one of the best amateur yachtsmen in
America and was frequently consulted as an authority
particularly in connection with international racing.
When at the wheel of his beautiful schooner, “Lasca,”
he stood bronzed and sturdy, there was no faltering of
the crew when his command was given, for his men
both loved him and obeyed him.

In contemplating death he sought to ‘make provision
to carry on the dominating purpose of his life: to bet-
ter the land in which he lived; to help, as he did while
living, those who deserved to be assisted.

At the time he consulted the writer about the prepa-
ration of his will, he simply said, “I want my money,
after Mrs. Doremus dies, to be used for educational
purposes in the South, I want to help the Southern
people to recover from the hardships and losses they
have borne. I have investigated the Southern colleges;
I have visited some of them. I have selected Wash-
ington and Lee University. Give all I have to that
college after Mrs. Doremus dies.” And so his will
was drawn.

With the rest of the story all of our readers are
quite familiar. The trust fund is under the control
of the trustees named in his will, of whom his widow

 

(Continued on page 18)

6 ~ THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Board of Trustees Passes Resolutions on McCormick Gift

In acknowledgment of the full receipt of the gift of
two hundred thousand dollars to the endowment fund
of Washington and Lee University by the family of
the late Cyrus Hall McCormick, inventor of the reaper
and founder of the International Harvester Company,
the Board of Trustees at its semi-annual meeting
passed a resolution acknowledging the gift with
thanks and establishing it as a perpetual memorial to
the great inventor.

The resolution was in part as follows:

“In recognition of the exceptional character and life
work of Cyrus Hall McCormick, Senior, of his long
residence in Rockbridge County, his Scotch-Irish
lineage, and his manifest service and devotion as a
Christian worker and a loyal trustee of Washington
and Lee University, the family of Mr. McCormick on
the second of January, 1920, created as a memorial to
him and a method of perpetuating his service, the
Cyrus Hall McCormick Memorial Endowment Fund
of Washington and Lee in the sum of $200, 000, such
amount to be held perpetually by the Trustees of
Washington and Lee University, the income only
thereof to be expended in the support and maintenance
of the University for the future.

“Recent payments having completed the transfer to
the trustees of this amount the trustees hereby formally
accept this notable memorial with the conditions above
described.

“They wish not only to return their sincere thanks
in behalf of the South and the nation, as well as in be-
half of the institution itself, for this notable invest-
ment in public service, but also to bear record to their
appreciation of the noble character, the exceptional
consecration, and the unusual world usefulness of Mr.
Cyrus Hall McCormick, Senior, one of their former
devoted associates, in perpetuating the life work and
ideals of Robert E. Lee.”

Cyrus McCormick, the great inventor of the reaper,
lived only a few miles from Lexington, worked out
his invention at his own forge and gave it first trial
under the supervision of members of the faculty and
friends of Washington College.

He was later elected a trustee of the University and
held that office until his death. He himself gave sixty
thousand dollars to the endowment of the University.

The McCormick family still retain their old home in
Rockbridge County and take great care in its main-
tenance.

 

 

Judge and Mrs. Martin P. Burks Celebrate Golden Wedding

Anniversary

Chief among the living immortals of alumni affec-
tion is the name of “Daddy” Burks, former dean of
the law school and the counsellor and friend of a host
of successful law practitioners in their struggling stu-
dent days.

It is appropriate, therefore, in celebration of his
fiftieth wedding anniversary that we dedicate to him
the cover page of this issue of the Alumni Magazine.
The event was quietly enjoyed at his home in Lexing-
ton on December thirty-first with his son, grand-
children and a few friends.

Judge Burks graduated with his B.A. degree at
Washington and Lee in 1870 and received his LL.B.
from the University of Virginia in 1872. He prac-
ticed law in his home town of Bedford until 1900 when
he was called to serve as associate professor in the law
school of his Alma Mater. He was made dean of the
law school in 1903 succeeding to the place formerly
held by the beloved and venerable John R. Tucker.

His work and career as dean of the law school is
known by tradition and experience to every alumnus
since that time. To him goes the credit for the suc-
cess of many Washington and Lee lawyers which is
freely admitted by them in tribute to and appreciation

of his teaching ability and clear insight into the fun-
damentals of law practice.

In 1914 Mr. Burks was named as one of the three
revisers of the law codes of Virginia which work ab-
sorbed most of his time and energy for three years.

The height of public recognition was reached when
he was made a member of the Supreme Court of Ap-
peals of Virginia in 1917, a seat held by his father be-
fore him. His work on the bench has been marked by
the same success and appreciation as was evidenced by
his work as dean of the law school.

It is interesting to note that in 1920 just fifty years
after he received his B.A. degree from General Lee on
the platform of the Lee chapel Judge Burks received
the degree of doctor of laws on the same platform. He
also received an LL.D. from Roanoke College in June
of 1903. Chief among the law texts written by Judge
Burks is “Burks Property Rights of Married Women
in Virginia” and “Burks Pleading and Practice.”

When asked for some message to send to his many
friends among the alumni Judge Burks responded,
“My only message to the alumni is: ‘If a man doesn’t

get pleasure out of his work then he doesn’t fit his
job.’ 99

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Judge T. H. Harvey, ‘68

In 1866 a twenty-two year old boy came on horse-
back to Lexington from Buffalo, West Virginia, to
receive educational training for life under the man
whom he had followed in war. Poor as he had been
at the close of the war, and handicapped by a wound
which had made him a cripple for life, he had managed
by hard and continuous work to save enough money
from the earnings of his farm to take a two-year law
course at Washington College.

It was the memory of his own struggles as a youth
which moved Judge Thomas H. Harvey, ’68, to give
ten thousand dollars as a loan fund to his Alma Mater
‘n 1918. Since that time, each year a score or more of
deserving students are given a lift over a rough place
in the road of their endeavors, encouraging them and
in many cases enabling them to finish their educations
when they would otherwise have been forced to stop.

At a recent meeting of the Cabell County (West
Virginia) Bar Association, Mr. John H. Meek of
Huntington delivered an eloquent eulogy in making
the presentation of a portrait of Judge Harvey to that
organization and in quoting in part from that speech
we express the sentiments of all W. and L. alumni in
the words of Mr. Meek:

“Tf the saying attributed to William Shakespeare be
true, that the good deeds we do are buried with our
bones, while our evil acts live on in the minds of those
who come after us, then all the more is it meet and
proper that while they are living we should give pub-
lic praise to the lives and characters of those men
among us who by their manner of living and their ac-
complishments have made themselves worthy of emula-
tion and have inspired better deeds among their fel-
lows. It therefore gives me a great deal of pleasure
to say something of the life and character of a living
judge, the Honorable Thomas H. Harvey.

“Judge Harvey was born on the twenty-fourth day
of May, 1844, and like most men who have become
distinguished was born on a farm. He was reared in
the Kanawha Valley, near Buffalo. His span of life
has already reached more than that of most men but I
am happy to say that his condition of health is such
that we may reasonably believe that he will be active
among us for many years to come.

“While the Judge was yet a school boy in an acad-
emy in his home county, the war clouds began to
gather in 1861 and he shouldered his gun and went to
the front. He cast his lot with the South and in Feb-
ruary of the year 1862 he was seriously wounded at
the battle of Fort Donaldson which made him a crip-
ple for life. He continued to fight valiantly through
the War, and at its end he went back to the farm on the
Kanawha, later taking up the study of law in what was
then Washington College. His diploma, received in

1868, was signed by Robert E. Lee, then the president
of that institution.

 

 

Jupce T. H. Harvey, '68

 

 

“He then returned to his native county to practice
law and in the year 1872 was elected prosecuting at-
torney of Putnam County. In the spring of 1874
he was married to Miss Emma McCullough who
is still his wife and his sweetheart. In 1878
he was elected a member of the West Virginia legis-
lature from Cabell County and served one term. He
again returned to the practice of law, and his life and
character as a man and his ability as a lawyer were
such that in the year 1888 he was elevated to the Cir-
cuit Court Bench of the old Eighth West Virginia
Circuit. He finally decided to retire from the ac-
tive practice of law and give his attention to business
matters. His success in this field was no less than his
success as a lawyer and public servant. He organized
and was the first president of the American Bank and
Trust Company of Huntington, in addition to taking
active part in a number of other big business enter-
prises. With several associates, he influenced eastern
capital to build the Guyandotte Valley Railroad.

“In addition to his many other services as a public
benefactor Judge Harvey has bequeathed to the city
of Huntington his magnificent house to be used for a
children’s home. He has also given a large sum of
money to Washington and Lee University for the
purpose of aiding worthy students.”

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Alumni Meetings Held January 19

Alumni in various sections of the country met on
Lee’s birthday to pay tribute to the memory of the
Great General and college president. Many others ob-
served his birthday individually in their home locali-
ties.

The District of Columbia association, under the able
leadership of Elwood H. Seal, ’14, met at the Univer-
sity Club in Washington. The Alumni Secretary,
Verbon E. Kemp, was the speaker for the occasion and
was warmly welcomed by the twenty-two members
present. The association voted to hold regular
monthly luncheons and empowered the officers of the
association to levy monthly assessments to cover the
cost of the luncheons. E. D. Campbell, ’19, is acting
treasurer of the association.

New Orleans alumni were particularly active. Their
meeting was a model of efficiency and codperation. The
minutes compiled by Mr. F. P. Hamilton and Dr. H.
M. Blain tell a clear and lucid story of their activity.

Mr. J. N. Thomas, field agent of the Lee School of
Journalism was the principal speaker at a meeting of
the Bristol, Tennessee, association which met at the
Colonial Tea Room in that city. Mr. Thomas outlined
the progress of the university during the past year and
discussed the plans and aims of the Alumni Incorpo-

rated with particular reference to the publication of
the Alumni Magazine and the Alumni Directory and
Service Record. James M. Barker was reelected presi-
dent of the association.

A joint meeting of the alumni of the University of
Virginia, V. M. I. and Washington and Lee was held
in St. Louis. While no complete report of their meet-
ing has been received we have heard that it was well
attended and enthusiastic. Mr. W. McC. Martin ’89,
is president of the St. Louis association and J. L. Pat-
terson, ’20, is secretary and treasurer.

Newspaper accounts indicated that the Little Rock,
Arkansas, association held a particularly interesting
meeting at the Elks Club of that city. Mr. D. H. Can-
trell, 87, was the principal speaker of the occasion and
gave a well prepared and illuminating address on “Lee
as a College President.”

Alumni meetings were also scheduled for Memphis,
Tennessee ; Birmingham, Alabama; Atlanta, Georgia;
Chattanooga, Tennessee; and Jacksonville, Florida.
Several of our leading alumni of New York City were
active in the Confederate Camp Fire held at the Hotel
Astor on Lee’s birthday. They were: Henry H. Mc-
Corkle, 96, Dr. W. EF. Dold, ’72, Walter H. McCorkle,
78, and John P. East, "94.

 

 

Minutes of the Louisiana Alumni Association, January 19, 1925

‘The annual meeting of
the association was held
at the St. Charles Hotel,
New Orleans, at 6:30 P.
M. The following were
present: T. J. Bartlette:
W. B. Williamson; N. E.
Cullum; W. A. Bell; W.
M. Alexander; J.- B.
Gladney; Paul Felder;
Palmer Orr; Lazu Block:
Robert C. Milling; J. W.
C. Wright, Jr.; H. -M.
3utler; F. P. Hamilton;

Walter Hoffman; Douglas
Anderson; H. M. Blain.

At the dinner President J. B. Gladney was toastmas-
ter, and Rev. W. McF. Alexander delivered the in-
vocation. Members were all introduced by name and
nickname. At the conclusion of the meal a silent
toast was observed to the memory of Basil J. Thomp-
son.

In the business meeting following, various matters
were acted upon. Officers were elected for the ensuing
year as follows: F. P. Hamilton, president; H. M.
Blain, vice-president; Fort Pipes, secretary. In the

 

F. P. HAMILTON

President Louisiana Alumni

absence of the new secretary, H. M. Blain was ap-
pointed secretary pro tem. Delegate to Finals, J. B.
Gladney, retiring president.

After a discussion of the time for regular meetings
it was decided that this should be left to the discretion
of the officers.

Upon motion of Judge W. A. Bell, all present ex-
cept those who had already subscribed paid in to the
secretary their subscriptions to the Alumni Magazine
which were to be ordered at once. ‘Twelve new sub-
scriptions were thus obtained. It was the sense of the
meeting that all absentees should be requested to sub-
scribe. The message of President Smith in the second
number of the Alumni Magazine, outlining work for
the Alumni Association, was read aloud and those ac-
tivities suggested which were not already being pur-
sued were favorably acted on. The secretary was in-
structed to inform Dr. Smith of this action. Follow-
ing discussion, on motion of Dr. Alexander, a com-
mittee consisting of Messrs. Hamilton, Blain and Bell
was named to call on the newspapers and request them
to use news from W. and L. more regularly, especially
pertaining to athletics, and to offer the cooperation of
the association in procuring such news. Upon motion

 

(Continued on page 36)

 

ee Ne ee eS ee eee ee oa ee eee

i i i i le i lk i lk ie,

Oe a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE a

My Ambition for Washington and Lee Alumni Incorporated

By Epwin C. Carrrey, 09, President of the Washington and Lee Alumni Incorporated.

My hope and ambition for the Alumni Incorporated
is to see it an active and effective force in all things
pertaining to the life of the University. Not merely a
chartered organization existing only as a legal entity,
but as an adjunct of Washington and Lee, yet quite
separate, performing a service distinct and positive in
‘ts own sphere. To that end every Washington and
lee man should be enrolled as a member of the
Alumni Incorporated, and by this tie bind himself to
his Alma Mater.

here should come to us a sense of delight in the
opportunity for service, and if we would pause but for
4 moment, and contemplate our student days, and
honestly estimate the influence of Old Washington and
Lee on our every-day life, we would freely admit that
she has given much and received very little in return.
Fach and every alumnus should be stimulated by a
consciousness of this fact, and purposely with a fixed
resolve determine to pay back in some measure the debt
which he owes to that institution, rich in history and
tradition, whose idealism has made itself felt not
merely in the confines of a narrow space but in the
breadth of international activity. ‘To quote from 4
Creed. “I believe that the function of an alumnus ts
to aid the advancement of his Alma Mater, promote
her welfare and spread her fame.”

The spirit of the individual should be made potent
by concerted action with his fellows. This can be
brought about by having an interest in the doings of
Alumni Incorporated. Let us take upon ourselves this
work as a task at hand, and feel intensely the urge to
do something more for Washington and Lee than we
have before. There is a great field of usefulness for
the Alumni—-the social side, the reviving of college
friendships, through the organization of local chapters
affiliating and working with the National Association.
There ought to be a fixed day at least once a year when
the Alumni of a given community would join together
for the glory of our Alma Mater—preferably January
19—if not that date another.

There are many opportunities for service and my
ambition is to see the Alumni Incorporated rise to the
occasion, not on the basis that the University is getting
something for nothing but rather in the spirit of grati-
tude to be expressed in a material way by the loyal
sons of the institution.

Let us look to the needs of the University, measured
in the light of our respective interest in school life. Is
it Athletics? If so let us bring to our mind the im-
provement under way at Wilson Field. Are we in-
terested in a University great enough to meet the ever
changing demands of educational values? Do we hope

 

Jupce E. C. CAFFREY, President
Washington and Lee Alumni Incorporated

 

 

for a larger student body? Provisions must be made
for these contingencies. Foresight demands planning for
the future, this means new buildings, more instructors,
and some appreciation of the economic changes calling
for salary adjustments from time to time. According
to Mr. Penick’s report the University spent on each
student last year $159.60 more than the average amount
paid the University by each student. In our student
days the proportion was probably the same. We are
therefore debtors to the University in a material way.
These considerations to my mind are proper ones for
the Alumni body. Have we done our share towards
the Endowment Fund? Are we planning to bear some
part of the Wilson Field improvements? Is there a
campaign in your section of the country for the Lee
School of Journalism? What have you done for that ?
These pointed questions are not asked in any unkind
spirit, but are prompted by a love for Washington and
Lee in the hope that if perchance any one has forgotten
his duty a new ambition will come out of our differ-
ence, strong and determined to work individually and
in unison for a greater Washington and Lee.

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Review of the Boxing and Wrestling Teams to Date

By Watton H. BAcuracu, ’27.

Washington and Lee’s wrestling and boxing teams
thus far have had a fairly successful season. Under
the able tutelage of Coach Brett, these teams have
shown a marked improvement in form over the
squads of previous years, and have taken their place
among the leaders in southern intercollegiate circles.
The coach has spared neither time nor trouble to give
the men the best instruction possible and has _ been
mainly instrumental in promoting added interest in
the two manly arts, among all the members of the
student body.

The wrestling team journeyed to Annapolis on
January 31 to grapple with the middies, but were
forced to be content with but one bout to their credit.
The final score was 26 to 5, Captain Holt of Wash-
ington and Lee scoring his team’s only points by
throwing his opponent after a hard struggle. This
meet showed the Generals in far better form than
when they met the Annapolis team last year.

The University of Virginia wrestlers came to Lex-
ington on February 5 and were defeated 20 to 11.
Washington and Lee scored four falls to one fall and
two time decisions for the Cavaliers. The work of
Biddle, Tilson and Holt was exceptionally brilliant
in this meet.

With the record of last year’s
undefeated track season an incen-
tive to even greater achievement,
Coach Fletcher’s athletes are de-
voting their best efforts to make
ready for the opening meet with
the University of North Carolina
at Chapel Hill April fourth.

Only one man of any conse-
quence has failed to return this
year, but unfortunately that man
was Harrell, W. and L.’s great jave-
lin and discus thrower. In spite of
this handicap, the team is the best
balanced one that ever represented
the Lexington institution. Hereto-
fore there have been star sprinters
or star jumpers but the 1925 team
is a well rounded one with good men in each event.

Perry Norman, captain, is by far one of the best
pole-vaulters in the section. Lane Howard, who has
won every cross-country race that he has ever run for
the Generals, is the outstanding long distance runner
of the South. In the Olympic tryouts, though twelfth
to place, he was the second college man to finish.

Reginald Milbank, a graduate from last year’s

 

LANE Howarp

On February 9 the strong West Virginia wrestling
team came to Lexington, and after a hard fought
series of matches emerged victorious by the count of
16 to 9. In the 135 pound class Walters of Wash-
ington and Lee won a time decision over Millender of
West Virginia, who holds the Eastern Intercollegiate
Championship in his weight. Tilson of Washington
and Lee threw Pitsenberger of West Virginia, and in
doing so administered defeat to the Mountaineer who
had not lost a bout in four years.

A return match was held with the Mountaineer
wrestlers in Morgantown on February 14, and again
the West Virginia team was victorious after a hard
fought match. Captain Holt of Washington and Lee
was the only man to win a bout, throwing his op-
ponent in two minutes. The remainder of the bouts
went to West Virginia, two by falls and the rest on
time decisions.

The wrestlers at this writing are at the halfway
post of their schedule for the season and have yet to
meet Franklin and Marshall and the Army.

The boxing team has entered two meets so far this
year and has emerged victorious from one of them.

 

(Continued on page 36)

‘Track Prospects

Freshman team, is outclassing the field in the dashes
though Summerson and Manning can always be counted
upon to furnish stiff opposition. Gordon and Hill are
exceeding all expectations, and will run the middle dis-
tances. Howard, Gannaway, Gordon, Bean, Fulton,
Gimson and Pfeffer will carry the Blue and White in
the long runs.

In the field events, Lewis and Van Horn, ably abetted
by Kidd, are expected to do great things. In the con-
ference meet held at Charlottesville last year, Lewis
had little difficulty in winning the broad jump. Nor-
man and Lowry will not only represent the Generals
in the pole-vault, but are expected to scintillate in the
high-jump, together with Biddle.

The schedule is an attractive one, but the hardest
that Washington and Lee has had in some years. It
follows below:

April 4—North Carolina State at Chapel Hill.
April 11—open.

April 18—North Carolina State at Lexington.
April 25—V. P. I. at Lexington. |
May 7—University of Virginia at Charlottesville.
May 14—Richmond University at Richmond. |
May 21—Southern Conference at Sewanee.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

1925 Basketball

By Murrey D. Kein, ’25, Sporting Editor of Ring-Tum Phi.

When Eddie Camer-
on was appointed to
take over the reins as
coach of the Washing-
ton and Jee basketball
team for the 1925 sea-
son, he had only three
Varsity letter men back
from last year as a nu-
cleus around which to
build his team. ‘These
men were Captain
Nelson Lake and Rudy
Lane, forwards, and
Henry Wilson, a guard.

Herndon, Van Horn,
Funk and McCandless,
stars from last year’s Freshman five, were among
the men who reported from that team, while Little,
McVey, Henderson, Smith, Wice and Gibson, from
the scrubs of the year before, came out for Varsity
berths. Mitchell, a transfer, also became a candidate
for the team.

 

NELSON LAKE

The squad was so large at the outset of the season
that Coach Cameron had to divide it into two sections,
one practicing in the afternoon, and the other in the
evening. By this method he was able to give more
personal attention to each man trying for the Varsity.

After two weeks of hard and strenuous practice,
Coach Cameron selected the following men to start the
Wake Forest contest on January twelfth; Lake and
Lane, forwards; Herndon, center; Henderson and
Wilson, guards.

The opening game with the Demon Deacons was a
thriller. First one team, and then the other was in the
lead, and it was only in the last fleeting seconds of the
fracas that a field goal by Ober, Wake Forest’s ster-
ling guard, sent the Generals down to 25-23 defeat.
Captain Lake performed brilliantly during the second
half, caging five field goals and becoming high point
man for the game. Daniels, the center, and Emerson,
the forward, of the visitors, were the stars of the game.
Their floor work was an outstanding feature of the
contest. Henry Wilson aided Lake materially in keep-
ing the Generals in the fight throughout the tilt.

Lynchburg College .was the first victim for the 1925
court team of the Generals, the Hornets taking the
small end of a 36 to 20 score. The substitution of Van
Horn for Herndon, in the pivotal position, was the
one important change Coach Cameron made in his
line-up. The Generals had an easy time with the
Hornets and at no time during the game did the Lynch-
burg team come within close distance of catching up

with the victors. At the end of the first half the Blue
and White score was double that of the visitors, the
count being 18-9. Captain Lake again was the scintil-
lant of the fracas, shooting no less than five field goals.
Van Horn, who was performing for the first time at
the center position, was the high point man of the tilt
with six baskets. His uncanny ability to score goals
from all angles of the floor was the feature of the
game. Henry Wilson starred with his great defensive
work, continually breaking up the offense of the Hor-
nets.

The General’s next victory was over a quint from
the Big Four of Virginia. The Gobblers of V. P. I.
were encountered and sent home, defeated 26 to 18.
The Tech men presented a weak team which could not
cope with the team work of the Blue and White five.
The W. and L,. quint made an auspicious start by get-
ting a thirteen point lead over the visitors in the first
twelve minutes of play but by the end of the half the
margin had been narrowed to four points, the score —
being 14-10. ‘The second half was more closely con-
tested but the Generals played better basketball and
hence were returned the victors. Lake, with five field
goals and two free tosses in three tries, was a nemesis
to the visitors. Funk, starting for the first time as a
varsity guard, easily displayed the best floor work of
the fray. Henry Wilson played his usual scrappy
game.

The team then took its first trip of the season, play-
ing the University of Kentucky in Lexington, Ken-
tucky, on January 29, and then going to Charleston,
West Virginia, to battle the West Virginia Mountain-
eers. On this trip the team broke even, losing to the
Wildcats of Kentucky and winning from the Morgan-
town five.

The initial game on this trip with the Kentucky net
wizards was the first sign of the team going into a
slump. Not a man on the team could get started, and
they lost 28 to 22. The Generals made ten out of four-
teen free tosses via the foul route, while the Cats were
successful in four out of six shots. The Big Blue
team’s half dozen baskets was exactly half the number
caged by the Kentuckymen. McFarland and Under-
wood, forwards on the Kentucky five, were the thorns
in the Generals’ side, as together they amassed twenty-
five of their team’s twenty-eight points.

The following night in Charleston, the team regained
its old time form and sent the Mountaineers down to
a glorious 37-32 defeat. Lake, playing in his home
town, was in the glow of the calcium. With nine field
goals and five out of nine free tries, for a total of 23
points, he brilliantly showed the home folks his ability

 

(Continued on page 36)

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A Noteworthy Distinction for Washington and Lee

By Proressor FE. F. SHANNON, PH. D.

An article of great interest to all Washington and
Lee men is to be found in “Harper’s Monthly Maga-
zine” for May, 1924, entitled Coeducation versus
Literature by Professor Rollo Walter Brown of Carle-
ton College, Northfield, Minnesota. The-argument that
Professor Brown maintains is that coeducation tends
to drive men out of courses in language and literature
because these subjects are so exclusively elected by
women in the coeducational colleges. He urges that
the study of the languages and literature is very neces-
sary for men “who are to carry the spirit of poetic
prophecy into every enterprise they undertake.”

Professor Brown gives statistics to illustrate the
difference in election in language and literature courses
between the coeducational institutions and the colleges
exclusively for men. Among all the colleges for men
Washington and Lee stands at the head of the list in
the percentage of students that take a certificate in
English and the foreign languages for the A. B. de-
gree. Though the statistics of the various institutions
are very interesting, we can quote only the four high-
est in the list as follows:

Meeeamaton and Lee os. Seine... os 60%
SE Oe 40%
Re. od, Mein 5) SPRANG. 00's 37.2%
Le, . . Se ics se Me a 35.1%

In comparison with these figures Professor Brown
produces interesting statistics of the percentage of men

 

ROBERT E. LEE MEMORIAL HALL IN
GREECE

A dispatch from Richmond says:

“The most imposing edifice in that group of build-
ings on a little island in the Aegean Sea known as the
Virginia Training School at Syra, is the Robert FE.
Lee Memorial Hall. The building has only recently
been dedicated with impressive and appropriate cere-
monies.

“A memorial tablet in the hallway to the building
bears a biographical sketch of Lee, written by one of
the Armenian orphan boys. It begins:

“Tn the beautiful state of Virginia, near the home
of George Washington, lived one of his dearest friends,
General Lee. On January nineteenth, 1807, a sturdy
son was born and named Robert Edward. As a boy,
Robert was not lazy, but loved to work for himself.
Because he was strong and active and cheerful he was
greatly loved by all. He never caused his family sor-
row by using bad language.’

“The remainder of the biography recounts Lee’s. pub-
lic career but these first sentences are interesting as
setting forth those traits which seemed most admirable
to his young Armenian biographer.”

in coeducational colleges electing languages and litera-
ture. He finds that in one of these institutions “not
one man in the senior class of 64 men and 58 women
took a major in Latin, English, the Romance languages,
or German, though one had majored in Greek so that
the percentage was saved from zero and lifted to 1.5
per cent.’”’ At another coeducational college “the zero
was absolute; not one man in the senior class had
majored in any language or literature.”

To make sure that geography does not enter into the
question at all, Professor Brown compares East with
East as well as Middle West with East and concludes,
“So if we compare the East with the East, in so far as
comparison is possible, we are brought to the same
conclusion as when we compare the Middle West with
the East, or with such colleges for men as have sur-
vived away from the seaboard—namely, that wherever
coeducation goes, the humane studies come to be looked
upon as women’s subjects, ‘ladylike’ subjects, and the
cause of humane learning suffers a loss, which, it must
be borne in mind, is absolute.”

From the statistics given in Professor Brown's ar-
ticle it is evident that Washington and Lee is rendering
a distinct service to the cause of liberal culture in edu-
cation by providing conditions that encourage men to
pursue their studies in language and literature. Such
distinction as this enables every Washington and Lee
man to feel justly proud of his Alma Mater.

 

 

PROFESSOR TUCKER TO HEAD TAX
REFORM WORK

“An honest; impartial, non-political study of state
taxation and the formulation and advocacy of an equi-
table system of taxation for Virginia” as provided un-
der the program of the Virginia state chamber of com-
merce was started in Richmond recently when the
chamber’s committee on taxation was appointed by
Major Leroy Hodges (’10), managing director, and
held its first meeting.

A definite course of activity to be pursued during
the entire year was adopted and Robert H. Tucker,
M.A., professor of economics and business administra-
tion of Washington and Lee University, and president
of the Lexington chamber of commerce, was elected
chairman.

Dr. Tucker is well known as the first chairman of
the Virginia Industrial Commission, member of the
Virginia commission on simplification of state and local
government, member of the Royal Economic Society of
London, of the American Society of Political and
Social Science, and the American Economic Associa-
tion.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Jacksonville Alumni

Too much cannot be said about the hospitality of the
Jacksonville alumni during the Florida—W. and L.
The team and all visiting
Every

game on December sixth.
alumni literally received the key to the city.
provision was made for the entertainment of the team,
alumni and friends.

One noticeable feature of the game commented upon
by interested observers was the lack of carousal or dis-
orderly conduct usually following end-of-season games.
When a team breaks training it is usually expected to
That this expectation
Jacksonville

get drunk and tear up the town.
was shattered is attested to by the many
citizens who were watching the results of the first big
game to be played in their city rather closely.

Fred Valz,
government
Association.

‘10, was chief host, representing the city
of Jacksonville and the Jacksonville
On the other hand the courtesy
and efficient attention given by Robert A. Baker, 06,
to every detail of hospitality was unsurpassed. “Rob”
Baker is president of the Jacksonville association and
presided at all committee meetings and at the alumni
banquet. C. T. Dawkins, 06 as chairman of the re-
ception committee was on hand on all occasions with his
committee of Robert Hutcheson, M. H. Myerson,
Damon Yerkes, and Herman Ulmer.

Alumni

A list of the courtesies extended by the Jacksonville
association would be too long—but in appreciation we
list the following: The establishment of alumni head-
quarters at the Seminole Hotel two days before the
game; the reservation of choice seats for alumni and
friends at the game; the entertainment of the team at
theaters, banquet and luncheons; meeting them at the
station and seeing them off; the football parade with a
local band in W. and L,. colors; and last but not least
the many courtesies extended to the Alumni Secretary
and his wife.

In addition, the traditional spirit of good sportsman-

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEAM In Action AT FiormpA GAME

 

13

 

W. ano L. Sponsors At FioripA GAME

 

 

ship of Washington and Lee was never more in evi-

dence.

Although the team was defeated there was

nothing but absolute satisfaction expressed by the fol-
lowing alumni who registered at alumni headquarters:

C. Edmund Worth, ’16
G. W. Judy, ’03
David K. Dunham, ’09
J. D. Holmes, Jr., ’24
+. S. Hunter, ’24

.S. Humphreys, ’09

_ Nelson Smith, ’24

. D. Causey, 13
2. G. Campbell, ’08

F. W. Plowman, ’24
T. W. Swope, ’24

F. IL. Poindexter, 89
Reuben Ragland, ’09

J. P. Walker, ’95

F, A. Hollingsworth, ’06
S. M. Engelhardt, ’09
T. C. McCallie, ’14

F. B. Enneis, *16

Jack Marshall, "23
Willis Everett, Jr., 21
J. L. Howe, Jr., 718

L. S. Adams, ’09
Russell L. Frink, ’10
Richard Beard, ex-’25
J. F. R. Kuck, *10
Walter M. Hood, ’10
C. S. Henley, ’11

A. C. Montgomery, ‘08
Pasco Altman, 7°12

W. H. Jackson, ’08

FE. King Nelson, Jr., 18

E
E
J. V. Wall, Jr., 05
“R
B

—

John Bell, ’21

H. W. Henry, ’88
Walter O. Sheppard, 712
A. L. McCarthy, ’23
Jimmy Thomas, ’23
Lewis Twyman, ’14
O. B. Simmons, Jr., ’21
M. G. Twyman, 17
R. C. Potts, “23

H. A. Hall, *23

R. L. Hutchinson, *12
Minor S. Jones, 719
M. Caraballo, ’07

K. I. McKay, ’04

D. W. Parfitt, ’07
Bayard B. Shields, ’06
Norman Bie, *16
Alfred D. Stevens, ’08
V. F. Blanton, °11

J. D. Waters, ’20

L. D. Howell, ’05

R. S. Anderson, Jr.,
R. G. Wickersham, ’23
David Laird, ’85

C. R. Pilkington, ‘07
D. M. Bernard, ’05
Paul R. Scott, 716
Hodgson Ball, ’17
David A. Falk, 716
F. R. Nolley, ’16

S. C. Lawson, ’23

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

To the Washington and Lee Alumni

By PresmpeNtT HENRY Louts SMITH.

Every individual
alumnus and espe-
cially every alumni
organization can
most fittingly and
effectively advance
the reputation and
life-work of Gen-
eral Robert E. Lee,
promote and develop
the Christian civili-
zation of America,
and worthily ad-
vance the interests
of their Alma Ma-
: ter by teaching the

8 4 whole South these
, ad primal lessons:
Dr. H. L. Smita, President 1. That Wash-
ington and Lee has
a sphere of action unbounded by state, denomina-
tional, or sectional lines and limits. That it appeals
to the whole South peculiarly, and also to the whole
Nation, not only as a memorial to the greatest men
of the past but as their chosen agent to promote their
ideals and disseminate their principles of life and
action.

2. That while the various Christian denominations
are doing a great work for our Christian civilization in
maintaining their separate institutions, Washington and
Lee belongs to the twentieth century era of Christian
cooperation and unity rather than to jealousy and com-
petition. In its founding, its history and the character
of its great founders it is openly and eminently a
Christian institution, but inter-denominational, inter-
state, and entirely free of political management or con-
trol.

3. Washington and Lee does not derive any financial
revenue from taxation or from the collections of any

 

 

 

 

denomination. Its financial support, like that of Har-
vard, Yale, and Princeton, comes entirely from the
generous gifts of those who desire to see its work ad-
vanced, its founders more widely honored, and their
great ideals of living made more universal.

4. Every one, therefore, North, South, East, and
West, and especially those in the South, or of the
South, who honor General Lee’s character, wish to
perpetuate his life-work, and desire to advance the
Christian civilization of which he and George Washing-
ton were such notable examples, is loyally committed
to the financial support of Washington and Lee, and
should find it both a privilege and a duty to invest
whatever he can in forwarding its splendid work for
the present and the future.

5. Washington and Lee, as the tomb of its immortal
re-organizer, is rapidly becoming the second Mount
Vernon of the United States. Within a few years
three of the greatest transcontinental highways of the
nation will pass practically through its campus, and in
the approaching highway age it will become not only
a national shrine but a conspicuous center of travel,
visited by countless thousands of tourists through the
whole year. In its buildings, equipment, endowments,
and facilities loyal citizens everywhere can find special
facilities for creating most worthy individual and
family memorials which will not only immortalize a
name and character but carry on most useful work
through the ages of the future. No such opportunity
for worthy and conspicuous memorials is at present of-
fered elsewhere in the whole United States.

To have the above facts become as rapidly as possi-
ble part of the mental and emotional equipment of
every patriot of the South and every patriotic Christian
of the Nation is at present both the privilege and the
duty of all those who desire to advance the interests
and promote the work of this Nursery of American
Leadership.

 

 

The Heart of the Giver

The following was received from a contributor to
the endowment campaign. We publish it to show how
some of our alumni feel about making payments.

“As per enclosed notice I herewith hand you Federal
Reserve Exchange for fifty dollars covering my long-
delayed balance due on the Million Dollar Campaign.

“IT have lived a long time and this is the first in-
stance, to my recollection, where I have failed to meet
an obligation when due. My only excuse is that I have
been out of work with very little income of any kind

and simply have not had the money; and to show you
my interest in the matter I have just sold my old auto-
mobile and for the time being will do without a car.
Have always been a cash man and regret the necessity
of your sending me the reminder of December thirtieth.
However, I know it is a business transaction and of
course am not offended. The fellow who has feel-
ings is generally he who tries to get out of paying his
obligations.”

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Editorial

Credit Due

Upon close inspection we have found noteworthy
progress in two phases of campus life. Due credit
should be given to Professor C. E. L. Gill, director of
the fancy dress ball and Henry E. Reitze, Junior, cheer
leader.

Carl Gill has directed the fancy dress ball for several
years. That annual social event has been marked by
unequaled efficiency and rare beauty under his man-
agement. He has been tireless in his direction of deco-
rations, dance figures and finances. In addition Pro-
fessor Gill has been the power behind the throne of our
other social functions, serving without glory or general
appreciation. We are pleased to cast our vote of grati-
tude.

For years the position of cheer leader has been a
thankless task without great honor or dignity. Henry
Reitze, ‘25, has lifted it from mediocrity to its proper
place in student body affairs. He has organized and
directed the natural enthusiasm consequent to our
athletic contests with a marked ability and a clear un-
derstanding of mass psychology. His work during the
football and basketball seasons has been the most effec-
tive witnessed here in years.

This is the third issue of the Alumni Magazine. It
has already reached an_ international circulation.
Alumni from South America to the Belgian Congo,
China and the Philippines have sent in their subscrip-
tions.

Over four hundred new subscriptions have been re-
ceived since the first issue. We are confident that many
others will subscribe when it is called to their attention.
Subscribers can increase the usefulness of the maga-
zine by lending their copies to other alumni and invit-
ing them to send in their subscriptions.

The Alumni Directory will be published, Deo vo-
lenti! The names and biographies of many alumni will
be published incompletely and inaccurately unless the
information blanks sent to every alumnus are returned
promptly. These blanks when properly filled in will
constitute the only reliable source material for the Di-
rectory. If you have not sent yours please do it at
once,

Home Coming

For years past Commencement has been the time ap-
pointed for Home Coming Alumni. Many have re-
turned to revive old memories and have been invigo-
rated by the dip into that fountain of youth. Some

have returned to find the draught impotent and have
been disappointed.

The spirit of Home Coming is centered around the
number of former classmates present and association
with them in visiting old and familiar scenes. With
this in view we are arranging a mammoth reunion in
June. Particular attention will be paid to reunions of
the classes of ’20, 15, ’10, 05, ’00, ’95, ’90, ’85, ’80 and
75. Members of those classes are most’ cordially in-
vited to make an especial effort to attend. Upon advice
from you every possible provision will be made for
your accommodation and comfort. A separate enter-
tainment program will be arranged for the wives and
children of alumni if you come en famile. Notify the
Alumni Secretary of your plans as soon as possible.

Judge William A. Bell Resigns from Board

Washington and Lee has suffered a distinct loss by
the resignation of Judge William A. Bell, which was
accepted by the Board of Trustees at his earnest re-
quest at their January meeting.

Judge Bell was recently reelected to the Supreme
Court of Appeals of Louisiana. The dockets of this
court were so heavy and congested that Judge Bell
saw his work on the bench would suffer if he took the
time off for semi-annual trips from New Orleans to
Lexington to attend Board meetings.

His resignation was made in the proper spirit. If he
could not do his share he would not continue in his
position. We feel that he also made a sacrifice although
Washington and Lee is the greater loser.

The School of Journalism

Announcement in the last issue of the Alumni Maga-
zine that courses in journalism would start next fall
should be of intense interest to alumni.

We often hear complaints about the lack of news-
paper reports regarding W. and L. activities. The pro-
duction of the future trained newspaper men at Wash-
ington and Lee would serve as a perpetual publicity
bureau in addition to the many greater benefits.

Public campaigns are being conducted for the School
of Journalism in various sections of the South. Alumni
are not called upon for donations. But they are called
upon to codperate in soliciting donations from the gen-
eral public.

Finals!

Commencement June 5-9 this year. A cordial in-

vitation is extended to every alumnus.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

W. AND L. MAN NAMED CHIEF OF
INFANTRY

The President recently approved the appointment
of Colonel Robert H. Allen, "92, of Buchanan, Vir-
ginia, to be chief of infantry, United States Army,
with the rank of major-general, for a term of four
years commencing March 28.

Colonel Allen will succeed Major-General C. S.
Farnsworth, who will retire on March 27, after more
than forty years of active service.

Colonel Allen won distinction overseas during the
war and was awarded the distinguished service medal.
He served during the war as Acting Chief of Staff,
Eighty-fifth Division, Commander Depot Brigade,
Eighty-fifth Division, and Commanding Officer of the
Three Hundred and Thirty-Seventh Infantry. In
October, 1918, he was transferred to the Three Hun-
dred and Fifty-Sixth Infantry of the Eighty-Ninth
Division and commanded that regiment during the
closing operations of the Meuse-Argonne offensive.
He was given the rank of colonel (temporary) in 1917
and of colonel (permanent) on July 1, 1920. He has
served as Assistant Commandant of the general service
schools since 1922.

Colonel Allen has been in the army since one year
after his graduation from Washington and Lee, when
he enlisted in the ranks at the age of twenty-three.

In his citation when he received the D. S. M. it was
said: “Resourceful and energetic, he was at all times
equal to any emergency which arose, showing qualities
of rare leadership.”

—_—_- - ~~

W. W. SAGER, 718, WITH THE MAYO
BROTHERS

A recent letter to Mr. Penick from Dr. W. W.
Sager, B. A. brought to light some of his interesting
experiences since leaving college.

After finishing his medical course Dr. Sager served
two years in the emergency hospital at Washington, D.
C., and then received a fellowship at the Mayo clinic
~ where he has been since July 1, 1924. He was selected
for this fellowship after two hundred applicants were
considered by the Mayo foundation.

At the Mayo clinic Dr. Sager has one of the greatest
opportunities in the world for graduate study in his
profession.

Reunions!

Special arrangements are being made for the com-
mencement reunion of classes whose class numerals
are in multiples of five.

STUDENT FREW WITH PITTSBURGH
PIRATES

 

R. M. Frew, °24

After graduation in 1924 Student Frew, peerless
athlete of the 1922 and ’23 football and baseball teams,
went into training with the Detroit Tigers at Augusta,
Georgia. However, he obtained his release from them
and returned to Greenwood, South Carolina, to play
independent baseball.

At the close of the baseball season he became an in-
structor and coach of the Darlington, South Carolina, —
high school athletics. While there he signed with the
Pittsburgh baseball club and will go with them on their
training trip to California this month.

Student writes that he intends to play baseball and
coach football for years to come unless he makes a
fortune elsewhere.

-_—_—-_

ALUMNUS IN CHARGE OF CAVE RESCUE
WORK

Alumni who followed the newspaper accounts of
the attempts to rescue Floyd Collins from a cave in
Kentucky will be interested to know that the direct-
ing engineer, after the work of digging was under-
taken, was Harry Tucker Carmichael, a native of
Lexington, Virginia, and a member of the class of
99 at Washington and Lee. Mr. Carmichael is gen-
eral manager of the Kentucky Rock Asphalt Com-
pany of Kyrock, Kentucky, engaged in the manu-
facture of road surfacing materials.

Make your plans to attend the alumni reunion June

5-9.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 17

Fred Valz, ’10, a Power in Florida

Fred Valz has no illusions about himself. When re-
quested for the above photograph Fred asked us not to
tell the alumni of his activities in Florida for he knew
that they. would not believe it.

However, the story of Fred Valz’s rise to eminence
in his adopted state could be used for a motion picture
scenario. He came to Jacksonville, Florida, from
Staunton, Virginia. After receiving his LL. B. from
Washington and Lee in 1911 he started to work at a
small salary with a Jacksonville commercial concern.
An opportunity presented itself and he hung out his
shingle and started the practice of law. His natural
aptitude for politics and his ability for public service
soon became evident. However, his name was not
mentioned in political circles until 1917 and °18. He
was elected a member of the city council in 1919 and
re-elected in ’21. Once in the public eye his success
was assured. He was elected member of the city com-
mission of Jacksonville in 1923 and as head of the de-
partments of police, fire and finance he has justified the
confidence imposed in him..

In addition to his work for the city of Jacksonville,
in the spring of 1924 Fred managed the campaign of
John W. Martin, now governor of Florida, whose full
confidence he now enjoys. It has been said by his
friends among the Florida alumni that in the few short
years of his public life Fred has risen to be one of the
outstanding figures in the state government whose
power and ability is recognized in every section of the
state.

Fred had planned for the Washington and Lee—Uni-
versity of Florida game for two years and it was
through his efforts that the game was arranged and
played before a mammoth crowd on the sixth of last
December. Visiting alumni at this game found that
every resource of the city of Jacksonville had been

 

Doak Smithson Edits

N. D. Smithson, B.A.,
LL.B.. writes that mate-
rial for the 1911 Law
Class Annual has gone to
press and will be issued
shortly.
previous
booklet will be of keen
interest not only to the
class of ’11, but to all
alumni who are fortunate
enough to read it. Mr.
Smithson has been editor
for a number of years

Judging from
editions the

 

N. D. Smituson, ’11

 

Frep Vauz, 710

 

placed at their disposal by their one-time classmate and
fellow alumnus. If the advice of those who attended
that game is heeded the attendance of alumni at the
Florida game at Thanksgiving of next year will be
trebled because Fred Valz states that aside from his
regular work the preparation for that game will hold
his chief interest.

1911 Law Class Annual

and deserves much credit for helping to keep his
classmates in such close contact with each other.

When Mr. Smithson resigned as registrar of Wash-
ington and Lee in 1920 he entered the trust department
of the Wachovia Bank and Trust Company, Asheville,
North Carolina, where he is employed at the present
time. During 1921 he spent six months in Washington
with the Bureau of Applied Economics; and from
February, 1922 to April, 1923 he was Internal Revenue
Agent, Income ‘Tax Unit, with territory in North Caro-
lina.

He was married to Miss Sarah Alley and their first
child, a daughter, was born recently.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

E. T. Coman, 90, Prominent Pacific Coast Alumnus

The record of Edwin Truman Coman,
LL.B., 90, stands out distinctly among the
achievements of our alumni in the west. A
recital of the bare events of his career pro-
vides many high lights because of the fre-
quent changes made in location and of his
success in each place of endeavor.

Coming from Illinois Mr. Coman entered
Washington and Lee in 1889 and received
his law degree at the conclusion of one year’s
intensive study. He was admitted to the
Virginia bar shortly after graduation and to
the Illinois bar a year later. He started the
practice of law in Chicago in 1891 and
moved to the state of Washington four years
later.

The professions of law and banking were
so closely allied in the development of the
northwest that Mr. Coman soon transferred
his energies and abilities to the banking busi-
ness. He became successively cashier, vice
president and manager of the Colfax (Wash-
ington) National Bank in 1907 and was later
successively elected vice president and presi-
dent of the Exchange National Bank of Spo-
kane.

During the World War Mr. Coman was
prominent in the activities of the Red Cross
and various citizen’s committees on military
matters of the Northwest. He also served
as a member of the Belgian Relief Commit-
tee.

He ventured into politics in 1918 and was
elected state senator from the Spokane dis-
trict. He was also president of the board of
regents of Washington State College and a member
of the joint committee on labor legislature in 1919.

By this time the sunny climate of California called
Mr. Coman southward and he was elected vice presi-
dent of the Mercantile Trust Company of California,
one of the leading financial concerns on the Pacific
coast with a capital and surplus of ten million dollars.
He is now located at San Rafael, California, where he
directs the affairs of that branch of his bank.

Mr. Coman is a member of the Phi Kappa Psi fra-
ternity and one of our most active alumni on the Pacific
toast.

Reservations!

Reservations for the commencement class reunions
should be made as much in advance as_ possible.
Write to the Alumni Secretary.

 

EK. T. Coman, ’90

 

R. P. DOREMUS, MYSTERIOUS BENE-
FACTOR

(Continued from page 5)

is one. The other two trustees are the testator’s
former partners and trusted friends, Henry G. 5.
Noble, the “war time” President of the New York
Stock Exchange, and Charles Lee Andrews, a son of
Richard Snowden Andrews of Baltimore. These
trustees have well conserved their trust. Mrs. Doremus
has also shown an individual interest in the welfare
of the institution her husband souglit to benefit, by the
erection of the Gymnasium upon the college campus
at Lexington.

Even though it be not famous, yet the name of
“Doremus” is now indelibly woven into the fabric of
the history of Washington and Lee University.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

Matthew Page Andrews, Historian and Educator

At Finals of last year Matthew Page Andrews, B.A.
01, M.A. ’02, was summoned to Washington and Lee
to receive the honorary degree of Doctor of Letters.
On that occasion President Smith recited in detail the
academic achievements of Mr. Andrews to an apa-
thetic student body. He told of his educational works,
his volumes of history, his public services—the audi-
ence listened, polite but bored. Then, as an interest-
ing sidelight, the President mentioned that Page An-
drews had been four times elected captain of the W.
and L.. baseball team—and the students began to show
signs of interest. When Dr. Smith went on to relate
that Andrews had struck out eighteen cadets in one
game against V. M. I., the assembly rose, a thousand
strong, and acclaimed him with cheers that placed him
forever in the Washington and Lee Hall of Fame.

In those days of his student life Page Andrews
showed many indications of the executive and organiz-
ing ability that has since made him prominent in the
world of affairs. He was elected captain of the base-
ball team when he was a Freshman to finish out the
year and reelected each year until, as a Senior, he de-
clined the fourth captaincy. At that time the office in-
cluded the duties of trainer and business manager, and
until 99 every team is said to have been in debt at the
end of the year. But what were known as “Andrews’
red ink hemorrhages” began to appear on the bulletin
boards every day, the games were staged in a sys-
tematic, businesslike manner, and the attendance grew
by leaps and bounds, so that each of those three teams
left a creditable surplus in the treasury. Andrews also
introduced the practice of attracting many more candi-
dates than he could use in the baseball activities, there-
by getting a large number of students interested in a
heathful sport and arousing their enthusiasm for the
games to a higher pitch. A New York. paper recently
published statistics showing that the greatest shut-out
defeat in the records of baseball was administered by
the team of 1900 when Washington and Lee defeated
William and Mary 40-0. Spectators, however, tell us
that the snap and interest of that lively team was such
that the crowd was enthusiastic to the end and rooted
to make the score a hundred.

 

In addition to his baseball activities, Mr. Andrews
was a member of the editorial boards of various col-
lege publications, and received two major and several
minor scholarships while in college. After leaving
W. and L. he taught in private schools at Winchester,
Virginia, and Baltimore, Maryland for several years,
playing professional baseball in the summer.

Later he organized the Page Publishing Association,
an information bureau on American history and es-
tablished the Page Educational Foundation for private
secondary schools. He has been a staff editor of edu-

 

M. P. AnpreEws, ’02

 

 

cational foundations since 1916. His published works
include History of Baltimore; The American’s Creed
and Its Meaning; A History of the United States; A
Heritage of Freedom; A Brief History of the United
States; American History and Government; The Wo-
men of the South in War Times; and Dixie Book of
Days. The works to which he is devoting his energies
at present are “The Tercentenary History of Mary-
land” and “Lee and the Confederacy,” one of the
series of Yale historical photoplays.

One of Dr. Andrews’ most important works has
been done in connection with The American’s Creed.
He conceived the idea and went ahead with it in the
face of well-founded advice to the contrary. A prize
was offered from funds donated by patriotic people
and the committee selected the creed written by Wil-
liam Tyler Page who, by a singular coincidence was
born in the birthplace of Francis Scott Key, author of
the Star Spangled Banner. The creed was accepted
in April, 1918, by the Speaker of the House of Repre-
sentatives on behalf of the American people and since
that time has become well known in the schools and
homes of the country.

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

aes
el Mins

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Berkley Cox
Fred McWane, Jimmy McGinnis
Lamar Polk
Henry Boley

  

FROM HENR

5. Pat Murphy

6. Johhny Harman
7. Jonah Larrick
8. L. P. Carey

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"Vo
TS KODAK ALBUM

9. Tom White
: 10. Walter Steves

11. Sharman Owsley, Ted Schultz
| 2. Walter Pennington

13. Harold Lynn, Bob Witt, Willie Flagg, Ben Neblett
14. Henry Boley, Frank Beckwith, Jack Campbell
15. Laban T. Patton, Sam Honaker

a

cpm e s,-* Je
pad ae att:
hs

7 eT | es Yt nes ’ ite i Se
tt as ee aa pee so

ce RR NE | b .
aoe -
Peers

5

ee

» TP

‘ yas”. by . Bry

 

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Joseph John Allen, °70, Will Compete in North Carolina Contest

Alumni who have attended Finals at Washington
and Lee will remember J. J. Allen, who has been promi-
nent on the campus at that time for many years. His
violin ‘always attracts an interested audience and his
knowledge of Greek and Latin, as well as his ability at
spelling, is a source of wonder and admiration to both
tndergraduate and alumnus. The following article
has recently come to our notice:

“Joseph John Allen, of Louisburg, N. C., who is 79
years old, writes that he wants to be counted in on the
State-wide Latin contest that is to be held on February
18 under the auspices of the University Extension Di-
vision and the Latin department.

“*T’m getting along in years I know,’ he writes Dr.
G. A. Harrer, of the Department of Latin, who is
chairman of the contest committee, ‘but I believe my in-
tellect is as spry as a youngster’s and I want a chance
to knock my old Gildersleeve grammar cold.’

“Dr. Harrer has informed him that he will be eligible
for the contest but not for the awards, which are limited
to high school students.

“The purpose of the contest is to aid in the stimulat-
ing of interest in the study of Latin in the high schools
by testing the student’s knowledge of Latin in the sim-
plest and most direct way, that is, by translation and by
questions on grammar. Fitting recognition will be

 

J. J. Auwen, ’70

 

 

given schools whose students do the best work although
the tests will not be used in any way to rate a school in
comparison with other schools.”

 

 

 

J. W. Garrow, 99, Prominent in Cotton Industry

 

J. W. Garrow, ’99

J. W. Garrow, President of the Texas Cotton As-
sociation, and one of the oldest members of the Hous-
ton Cotton Exchange from the point of service, has
been close to the cotton business all his life.

He was born within four blocks of the site of the
Houston Cotton Exchange several years after his
father, H. W. Garrow, moved his cotton business to
Houston from Mobile, Alabama. ‘The move was made
in 1877, and the father, who became widely known and
respected in the cotton trade, continued actively in the
trade until his death in 1916. The father was honored
by being eleven times elected to the presidency of the
Houston Cotton Exchange.

J. W. Garrow graduated from Washington and Lee
University in 1899 and was awarded the Bachelor of
Arts degree. He immediately became connected with
the firm of H. W. Garrow and Company, being made
a partner in 1913. After the death of the senior mem-
ber, the firm was continued under the old name by his
brother, H. W. Garrow, Junior, (C. E. ’97) and him-
self until the end of the past season, at which time the
firm was dissolved.

In 1918 Mr. Garrow interested himself in the factor

s
7

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

John G. Herndon, Jr., Authority on Taxes

We wrote to John G. Herndon, Junior, 10, for an
account of his career since his graduation in 1910.
His letter in reply was so interesting that we pre-
fer to publish it entire:

“You have asked me for a brief sketch of my activi-
ties since leaving Washington and Lee. I am glad to
furnish you such a synopsis for whatever use you may
want to put it to.

“Directly from Lexington I went to Madison, Wis-
consin, where for three years I, with Henry B. Nelson,
was in charge of the assessment of corporations under
the Wisconsin income tax law. The reason for my
going was the winning of a fellowship in taxation of-
fered by the University of Wisconsin. At the same
time Warren Newsum, who was also of my class at
Washington and Lee, won a similar fellowship offered
by Wisconsin in insurance. Warren Newsum and I
were roommates during that first semester in Madison,
after which time he returned to Memphis, Tennessee,
while I stayed and completed two more years of grad-
uate work at the University of Wisconsin.

“For a short time I held an associate professor-
ship in economics and sociology at the University of
Arkansas, resigning to take a job offered me by the
United States Department of Labor as an expert and
special agent, whatever that means. At any rate for
three years I traveled around the United States investi-
gating labor conditions for Uncle Sam, and in the mid-
dle of 1918, long after leaving the Department of La-
bor, was rewarded by the publication by the govern-
ment of a dull and uninteresting book I had written
dealing with the uninteresting subject of Public Em-
ployment Offices in the United States.

“Tn 1917 I accepted a job with the Bureau of Internal
Revenue at Washington, from which I resigned in Jan-
uary 1918, to accept employment with the National
City Company as its tax consultant in Philadelphia.
,efore the end of that year the Guaranty Trust Com-
pany of New York employed me in a similar capacity
and I remained with that institution until December,
1920. In the meanwhile the Guaranty Trust Company
had sent me abroad to study the tax situations of
Americans who were having to pay taxes to more than
one government, and non-residents of this country who

 

Joun G. Hernpvon, Jr., “10

 

 

were being taxed by the United States. On January
first, 1921, I opened my own office as a tax consultant.
I am still in the same work and at present have my of-
fices in the Bankers Trust Building, Philadelphia.

“T have been teaching since 1919 courses on Federal
tax reports at the Y. M. C. A. in Philadelphia, and in
Norristown, Pennsylvania, and for two years was a
member of the faculty of the American Institute of
Banking here in Philadelphia. I have written special
articles dealing with taxes for the Public Ledger of
Philadelphia since February, 1918 and have just re-
cently signed a contract for the publication of a small
book on income taxes to be published by the Interna-
tional Text Book Company of Scranton, Pennsylvania.

“On April 7, 1915, I married Grace Cordelia Middle-
ton of Washington, D. C., or she married me, which-
ever way it is. We have two sons, Linton Dale aged
seven and Richard Middleton aged five, and one daugh-
ter, Carol now a little over three months old.”

 

 

business established by Hogg, Dickson and Hogg.
Since that time he has been president of Garrow, Mc-
Clain and Garrow Incorporated, cotton factors.

Mr. Garrow became a member of the Houston Cot-
ton Exchange in 1907. He has served as a director of
the exchange during the past four years. He was elected
a director of the Texas Cotton Association in 1919 and
again in 1923, at which time he also was chosen a vice-
president of the association.

He was elected to the presidency of this body at the
annual meeting in Houston held last April.

Mr. Garrow has contributed much of his time and
energy to both of the cotton organizations named above,
having been particularly active in the establishment
and supervision of the traffic department of the Hous-
ton Cotton Exchange and as one of the leading spirits
in the promotion of the new Exchange Building.

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Another Successful Lawyer from the Class of ‘14

After receiving his B.A. at Washington and Lee in
1914, Elwood H. Seal was engaged in the wholesale
grocery business as assistant bookkeeper for a year.
He then became associated with Bird and Son as assist-
ant office manager ; later was made assistant to the Sales
Manager of West Virginia, Delaware and Maryland;
and in the early part of 1917 was appointed Sales Man-
ager of Tennessee and Alabama. In November of that
year he resigned to enlist as a yoeman in the United
States Navy and was promoted by examination and
selection to Ensign, Supply Corps, in July, 1918. Dur-
ing that same summer he took special training at the
United States Naval Academy and was appointed Sup-
ply Officer in connection with the commissioning of the
USS West Mahomet, and was afterwards on board in
that same capacity. He was discharged in May, 1919.

Mr. Seal entered Georgetown University Law School
in the fall of 1919 and graduated in 1922 with the de-
gree of Bachelor of Laws. He was associated with
Douglas, Obear and Douglas from June, 1922, to July,
1924, when he organized the firm of Seal and Dice with
offices in the Investment Building, Washington, D. C.
His activities also include a special professorship in the
National University Law School and full-time profes-
sorship in the Knights of Columbus Evening Law
School.

In addition to handling a thriving law practice, Mr.
Seal finds time to take keen interest in all matters per-
taining to Washington and Lee and has been partic-
ularly active this year in organizing the alumni of the
District of Columbia, starting this work at the time

 

E. H. Sear, ’14

 

 

Washington and Lee Davis Alumni Clubs were being
organized, he was very successful in recruiting work-
ers and raising funds for that cause. These alumni
have retained the spirit aroused at that time and formed
themselves into a permanent organization holding
monthly meetings.

 

 

A Valuable Proposal from Rev. W. T. Hanzsche, ’| |

Mr. VERBON Kemp, Alumni Secretary.

Dear Kemp:

I am enclosing check for the Alumni Magazine. I
am very happy to keep in contact with news of my
Alma Mater for I ofttimes feel a bit isolated from the
doings of W. and L. I am happy to say that I suc-
ceeded in sending two of my boys from my first church
in Illinois to W. and L., and one of my boys from my
church in Philadelphia.

It was good fortune to take three years of graduate
work in Princeton after finishing at W. and L., and as
my home is now about ten miles from the campus of
Princeton I am constantly.in contact with things there.
But Princeton in all its glory was not arrayed like W.
and L. It filled me with sheer delight to see Washing-
ton and Lee on the Princeton football schedule for next
year.

And now, through you, I would like to make a pro-
posal which may or may not be of value. As far as I
know I am the only W. and L. man in or near Prince-
ton. If I may be of service to you I should like to volun-

teer all in my power to rally the W. and L. alumni of
New Jersey and have a gathering at the W. and L.—
Princeton game next October.

If I can arrange it in any way for the crusaders of
the South who wish to come with the team to root, I
believe I can secure for them very reasonable priced
and decent quarters to sleep over night. We can prob-
ably put two or three cots in our own spare room so
as to house as many as possible, and find places in
Trenton for others. If we got enough we could hire
one of the busses which run regularly from Trenton
to Princeton to carry up our crowd. It was not my
privilege to be so close to Princeton when Washing-
ton and Lee last played there, but I am anxious now
to see the Blue and White make a glorious fight
against the Orange and Black.

If I can be of any service to any of the bunch in
preparation for the game next fall, command me.

Fraternally yours,
WILLIAM THOMSON HANZSCHE.
347 Spring Street, Trenton, New Jersey.

 

ii al ae ta hie . ee

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 25

John H. Tucker, °10

Since leaving Washington and Lee and receiving his
B.A. degree in 1910 John Tucker has had a varied and
most interesting career. He settled in Pine Bluff,
Arkansas, for five years before taking up his chosen
profession of law in preparation for which he entered

the law school of Louisiana State University in the fall
of 1915.

However, an interruption occurred in the first year of
his law course. He enlisted as a private in Company
“H” of the First Louisiana Infantry and served three
months with the National Guard in 1916 on the Mexi-
can border. He returned for his second year at Louisi-
ana state law school but was called out on April first,
1917, for active duty with the First Louisiana Infantry
as a second lieutenant. After two years of service in
France he was ordered to Archangel, Russia, in 1919
and served until August of that year. Upon his return
from the service he resumed his studies at the state uni-
versity and graduated with the degree of doctor of
laws in 1920. After graduation he entered the practice
of law at Shreveport, Louisiana, where he formed an
association with Mr. James E. Smitherman of that city.
Since that time his success has been phenomenal. His
long years of study and experience had well prepared
him for assuming the lead in the tremendous develop-
ment of northern Louisiana due to the discovery of oil
in that section of the state in 1921 and ’22.

John’s law library is composed chiefly of tomes in the
original French. His intimate study of the French
code has given him a commanding position in the state
bar of Louisiana. In addition to his law work he is a

 

Joun H. Tucxer, ’10

 

 

 

Major of Infantry in the Officers Reserve Corps and
was the first president of the Louisiana Officers Re-
serve Association.

 

 

Paul A. Rockwell, °10, Named Knight of Legion of Honor

 

In recognition of serv-
ices during the war as a
volunteer in the Foreign
Legion and as _ president
of the committee of the
Lafayette Legion, Paul
Ayres Rockwell of At-
lanta has been made a
Knight of the Legion oi
Honor. ‘The Government,
in making this nomina-
tion, recalls the career of
Kiffin Yates Rockwell,
Paul’s younger brother, an

: aviator killed in an air
hght over Alsace on September 25, 1916, who was

decorated with the Legion of Honor after his death.

The Rockwell brothers were the first American citi-
zens in America to offer their services to France against
Germany. They passed the first winter of the war in

 

 

 

Paut RocKweEL., 710

the Champagne and Aisne trenches. A damaged shoul-
der led to Paul Rockwell being demobilized and he be-
came correspondent for the Chicago “Daily News”’ at
the French front.

Kiffin, after being wounded in the thigh at Neuville-
Saint-Vaast, entered aviation service. He was one of
the founders of the Lafayette Escadrille, and won the
military medal and war cross by scoring the Escadrille’s
first victory and was given three other citations and a
commission as second-lieutenant.

Since the armistice, Paul Rockwell has become the
leading authority on the history of American service in
the Foreign Legion and in the original Lafayette Es-
cadrille, and has kept in touch with all the members.
In this way he has been able to see that American writer
combatants have been well represented in the “Anthol-
ogy of Writers, Combatants in the Great War,”’ which
promises to remain the most perfect memorial that has
been raised to any special section of those who fell in
the war.

26 THE ALUMNI

SO THIS IS LEXINGTON!
By Stuart Moores, ’15.

To the freshman at Washington and Lee, Lexing-
ton is his prison, to the sophomore his playground, to
the junior his parade ground, and to the senior a battle
field ; but to the old alumnus, whose perspective is mel-
lowed with the grind of hard years, it is the shrine of
his youth and in turning back to the scene of his uni-
versity days he may live over again the golden days of
the greatest age of his life. And because these days
were lived in Lexington, he will ever cherish the mem-
ory of this quaint little town and as the years go by his
thoughts will turn back to it more and more and he
will sooner or later yield to the call and be drawn back
to Lexington.

The old stalwarts, who muttered dire predictions
through their tousled beards when the railway displaced
the canal boats as the chief means of escape from Lex-
ington, have passed on, and a machine made civiliza-
tion has forced upon the sylvan quiet of its shades the
raucous shriek of motor horns, the grinding of brakes,
paved streets, metal roads, decent drinking water and
bad drinking liquor. Siamese and Uncle Jeff have
gone to another world, better or worse, and their point
of vantage on the principal street corner has been
usurped by a traffic cop; the Shiek has crowded the
Final Orator out of the picture as the campus hero;
the cinema has banished the calathump as a vehicle of
noisy exuberance; while the bootlegger has completely
put out of business the old Adams Express Company.
Cut-down racers have vanquished the old hacks, for-
merly available for transportation to dances when not
in use for funeral processions, and corduroys have
yielded to the species of trousers so abhorred by Mr.
Coolidge.

Yet, in spite of cowboys and flappers, whiz-bangs

 

(Continued on next page)

MAGAZINE

BETA THETA PI FRATERNITY HOUSE
COMPLETED

The view from the campus looking toward the Me-
morial Gateway and Main Street has been substantially
improved by the completion of the handsome and im-
posing Beta Theta Pi fraternity house. Although the
contractors are still working on the outside finishing the
Betas took possession on February fifteenth.

R. A. Rushton, chairman of the Beta chapter build-
ing committee has been largely responsible for the suc-
cess of the new building. He has had the active co-
operation of the chapter alumni association, H. St.
George Tucker, ’77, president, and Charles Kupfer, 18,
secretary and treasurer. Verbon EK. Kemp, ’19, was the
alumni supervisor of construction and finance.

Local builders say that the building is the largest and
most complete residential structure that has been erected
in Lexington during recent years. It has three stories
and twenty-two rooms, including a house matron’s
apartment on the first floor. It is colonial in type with
massive columns matching the beauty of the main build-
ing colonnade. It will amply accommodate forty peo-
ple.

The new Beta house is the first unit of the proposed
fraternity row designed by Horace Peaslee, park archi-
tect of Washington, D. C., under the commission of the
University. Indications point toward a rapid develop-
ment of this section lying just outside the Memorial
Gate between Main and Jefferson Streets. The house
was built by Pruitt and Coffey, local contractors, and
was designed by Stuart H. Edmonds, architect, of Win-
chester, Virginia.

 

Reservations!

Reservations for the commencement class reunions
should be made as much in advance as possible. Write
to the Alumni Secretary.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

First Unit SHowinc Beta Housst Fraternity Row

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

War Letters of Clovis Moomaw, '16

Dear Mama and Papa:

Being still away at school on Tuesday and not having
anything to do I walked twelve miles and back to my
company to see if I had any mail. I found your two
letters addressed to me at Camp Lee and felt I was re-
paid for my walk. It took me back to Guildhall to be
reading about the things there.

My division has moved but I am still at school and
will be here for some two weeks more. I will not be
able to get any more mail till I rejoin my company, so
I shall have to go a long time without hearing again.

There are a new lot of British officers here in this
quiet little French village away back in the country far
from railroads and cities. They are all interesting
chaps very cheerful and friendly. One more American
officer has come in. We have here as compared with
the American hours easy hours of work. The mess is
good and we get plenty of sleep. I am really having a
pleasant vacation which resembles our American past-
time of camping, only there is no fishing. The English
go in a lot for games which keep them in physical trim.
In most of them I join in but am awkward, especially
those that require skill.

I have never felt better. The climate here is slightly
cooler than our own. The nights are quite cool. Three
blankets are not too much cover and at times one could
use more. Love,

Clovis.

 

Sunday, July 7.
Dear Georgia :

The best news I have had recently is that you are
home for the summer. Please prolong your stay as
much as you can. I am grieved at having missed you
by so short a margin and at being denied the pleasure
of being at home while you are there. But as they say
here “C"est le guerre.” ‘That is their answer to every-
thing that is not as one would wish.

Here one does not hear any discussion of the broader
aspects of the war—aims, etc. One only hears of par-
ticular instances, small things, like what happened on
such and such a day or night during a raid or during a
bombardment. All these English officers are from the
line. Many of them wear wound stripes and decora-
tions but for all that they are like a bunch of college
boys. On the whole they are quieter than we Amer-
icans. There is nothing of the rowdy about them.
They are neither shy nor forward but reserved and self
reliant. When I first came here I was constantly
amused at their phraseology, but now it seems entirely
correct. They say “Righto” when we say “all right”
and “Cheerio” is a greeting used upon parting or meet-
ing. For “Go ahead” they say “Carry on.” They eat
four times a day which is a habit one readily falls in

with. Nearly everyone smokes Virginia cigarettes made
in Richmond.

One can get everything one needs here in the way of
clothes and incidentals. So taking everything into con-
sideration it is a very pleasant war, much nicer than in
the States. Best love,

Clovis.

 

July 22, 1918.
Dear Mama and Papa:

Yesterday after twenty six days at school I rejoined
my company. Things change so quickly over here that
I was almost a stranger when I got back. The men had
all improved so much in their looks and I had fattened
up so much that we hardly knew each other. It was
quite a rest and change for me at school and while I
enjoyed my stay I learned a lot about the Lewis Gun.

This gun is a weapon about three times the weight of
a rifle that shoots automatically at a tremendous rate.

I am enclosing a small photo of the officers in my
class. The one sitting at the end opposite from me is
the only other American present. The rest are British.

Never in my life have I felt better.

Four of your letters have reached me, the last dated
June 21.

Best love,
Clovis.

 

SO THIS IS LEXINGTON
(Continued from preceding page)

and yellow sheets, Fords and fruit jars, tangos and
temptations, Lexington is still Lexington and ever will
be, world without end. ‘The old-timer will find that
“Everyone bums at McCrum’s,” with The Corner as
an added attraction. “H. O.” will still ‘meet you face
to face in his corner place,’ and the early dawn is
broken by the sound of hectic shots and yells from
lower Main Street and by the clumping of ‘Dixie’ as
he glides by in his wooden gondolas. The Court House
forum may be seen as of yore on warm days solving
the problems of Cleveland’s last administration amid
a shower of cut plug juice, and life flows on in a warm
gentle stream, refreshing to the spirits of those who
have breasted stronger currents.

For all its venerable customs, youth is the keynote
of the place and, though professors may protest and
chaperons may carp, youth continues to have its fling
here, a factor which reflects itself in the life of the
town and prevents it from becoming senile with age.
Old graduates are somewhat dazed to find that Lexing-
ton has a Chamber of Commerce which actually invites
strangers to visit it, but such is the case and the stream
of visitors is increasing every year. It is equally
amazing to the aforesaid old graduate that many of
them stay here and appear to like it, but down in his
heart he knows why they like it and he would give
anything he owns to be able to do likewise.

, | THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DICK MORALES BUILDS HANDSOME
HOME

 

$4 EET E ELA
Viedtiene tet eden nid tee es

 

 

 

Home or R. P. Morateés, ’11

Man is a home-builder by instinct. After practicing
law in Tampa since his graduation at W. and L., Rich-
ard P. Morales has satisfied that primal desire of man
and built himself a home. That he may well be proud
of his efforts is shown by the above photograph which
was published by the Tampa Tribune with two columns
of interesting comment. 7

Mr. Morales motored to Jacksonville for the Florida
game with his wife who is also his law partner. Don
Ricardo, as he is affectionately known among his many
alumni friends, was the center of much alumni atten-
tion at various gatherings on that occasion.

 

“DINK” PEALE, ’21

DEAN Henry D. CAMPBELL,
Washington and Lee University.

My dear Dean Campbell:

It has occurred to me that you and through you the
University might be interested to know of the outstand-
ing success of Mr. Clifford M. Peale in his work at this
school. Mr. Peale graduated from Washington and Lee
University in 1919.

Because of his excellent scholastic record in his first
year here, he is now a member of the Student Review
Board, which has charge of the writing and editing of
a large share of the material in the quarterly maga-
zine, “Harvard Business Review.” The organization
and method of election used by this Board are similar
to those of the Law Review Board in the Law School,
combining the functions of an honorary scholarship
group and an editorial board.

I should like to take this opportunity to congratulate
you and Washington and Lee University upon the rec-
ord made by Mr. Peale.

Very truly yours,
W. B. Donuam, Dean.
Harvard University Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration. |

CAREER OF C. A. ROBBINS, ’10

Tod Robbins, ’10, has added his name to the list of
prominent authors who are graduates of W. and L.
He has had several books published by leading firms
and a number of his short stories have received honor-
able mention in O’Brien’s Best American Short Stories.
“A Bit of Banshee” appeared in THe Forum for De-
cember, 1924.

Mr. Robbins was prominent in college athletics while
at Washington and Lee, being captain of the track team
1910-11, light weight boxing champion and a member
of the tennis team. At one time he held the New York
Interscholastic Pole Vault record.

Two years ago Mr. Robbins was the winner of the
Physical Culture $3000 novel contest.

 

FROM LIDELL PECK, ’23

Tue ALUMNI MAGAZINE,
Lexington, Virginia.

Enclosed please find my check for $2.00.

May I not also take this time to congratulate you
upon the full success of the initial copy of the maga-
zine? I am indeed glad that the much-needed alumni
interest will be satisfied and that those members spread
over this continent will once again be brought into di-
rect communication with those they hold so dearly.

You who are fortunate enough to remain in active
contact with the old Alma Mater can not realize how
much it means to maintain our compulsory absence.

How regretful it is to force ourselves to cast into the
treasure chest of memories those recollections of our
association there. ‘The strong friendships made that,
upon bidding farewell a few years later, must fade
from that fragrant flower into a heartache. Those
compulsory footsteps we took down the walks to the
Chapel and, still more, those begrudged ones to the
class room—how happy we would be if we could only
take them once again.

If only for a day to be able to sit around the tables
of the Corner Drug Store with those who breathed
with a Southern Springtime; or to meet the student
body in the post office and listen to the latest wit, laugh-
ing with one eye on the exponent and the other riveted
on the hopeful mailbox. —

The old Campus is not an inanimate thing to those
who have left it—We cannot regard it so. It is, on the
contrary, a thing of life and beauty for which we feel
an affection and a knowing that our self pity finds
ready sympathy.

Sincerely yours,

Ae LIDELL PEcK.
625 Spruce Street, Oakland, California.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DEATH NOTICES

Joseph M. Adams, LL.B., 93, who was assistant man-
ager of the St. Louis Post Dispatch died during January
of heart disease.

Donald McDonald, ’75, died June third, 1924, at his
home in Louisville, Kentucky.

W. R. Kennedy, ’86, died at his home in Lexington
Virginia, during December, after a short illness.

G. Louis Duncan, ’19, of Gadsden, Alabama, was
killed in an automobile accident near Tuscumbia, Ala-
bama, December third, 1924. He was a traveling sales-
man for an Alabama commercial concern.

Clement D. Moss, ex-’89, died at Lake Charles,
Louisiana, March 30, 1924.

Mrs. Nellie Morgan Adair, wife of Dr. Templeton
Adair, 01, died after some weeks of illness caused by
heart disease. She was buried at Mt. Hope, West Vir-
ginia.

Argyle Turner Smiley, ’04, died at Moffatts Creek,
Virginia, after a lingering illness of several years. He
was an engineer with the Consolidated Coal Company
at Fairmont, West Virginia.

Colonel R. A. Young, ’05, Monroe, Louisiana, was
accidentally killed December fifth, 1924.

Charles Bryan, ’68, of Louisville, Kentucky, died
December 27, 1924.

Harry O. Locher, Senior, ’64, of Glasgow, Virginia,
died November 27, 1924. He was for most of his life
a resident of Glasgow where he managed the Glasgow
Clay Products Company.

 

THE FANCY DRESS BALL

The nineteenth annual Fancy Dress Ball of Wash-
ington and Lee was conducted on February fourth with
added splendor and glory. The Romance of the Dance
was the theme carried out in the costumes and tableaux
staged prior to the figure.

The ball was led by C. W. Meadows of Beckley,
West Virginia, and Miss Hilah Hinton of Petersburg,
Virginia. It was directed by Professor C. E. L. Gill
and managed by H. E. Reitze, Junior, who also led the
opening figure.

Among the out-of-town alumni attending the dance
were J. R. Fain, ’19, Jack Darden, ’19, George C.
Mason, ’23, Irvin Lynn, ’21, William Lynn, ’23, D.
N. Farnell, ’24, A. S. Gifford, ’24, J. R. Caskie, ’06,
T. H. Simpson, ’24, J. C. Jones, ex-’25, R. H. Barker,
‘23, J. S. Hansel, ’22, D. B. Edwards, ’23, R. E. Graves,
24, and R. P. Hanger, ’22.

 

Commencement!

The classes of ’75, ’80, ’85, 90, 95, ’00, ’05, ’10, 715
and ’20 will meet in Lexington June 5-9. Make your
reservations early.

 

TT Ton an
A NS
Tal aah fgeeen coca |i | ea [roe | ener | coor

, pacey a

“folie rso|ctale calls can
ta cen adn

 

 

DRAWER 897

“‘Ain’t the Roses Sweet?”

ALUMNI SECRETARY,
Washington and Lee University.
Dear Sir:

Thanks for return of check, which you will note I
am enclosing with request that you apply it to next
year’s subscription to the magazine.

I find the magazine very interesting and think we owe
you a vote of thanks for the rapid strides you are mak-
ing in expanding it with consequent great work you are
doing for Washington and Lee.

With every good wish,
Sincerely,
H. T. CARMICHAEL.
Kyrock, Kentucky.

V. E. Kemp, Secretary.
My dear Sir: y

Only the other day—forwarded from an old address
in Manila, P. I—came the card “Something for your
Money” telling of the Alumni Magazine and the Alumni
Directory. I am sending herewith two dollars in bills
and I wish that you would enter my name for a year’s
subscription to the magazine beginning with the first is-
sue of the school year.

I was at the University during the session of 1902-03
and have always been much interested in the institution.
My present work is that of Dean of the Cathedral of St.
Luke (Episcopal Church), here in the Canal Zone. My
work has been in years past in the Philippines, Japan,
Siberia (war work), etc. My permanent address is
Ancon, Canal Zone.

I am very much pleased with the fine football season
and trust that we have many more in store. If I can be
of any service pray call on me.

Yours for W. and L.,
FREDERIC CHARLES MEREDITH,

 

Bring Your Family

Accommodations and entertainment for your family
will be arranged for the commencement reunions.

June 5-9.

 

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

‘Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town wh ere
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

 

 

 

Printers & Stationers

Fine Stationery and Engraving
Office Equipment and Supplies
College Publications

Fraternity Publications

We would appreciate your inquiries which will
receive our prompt and careful attention

 

INDIAN PRESS

SURBER-ARUNDAIE ©MPANY

PUBLISHERS: PRINTERS ‘STATIONERS
CHARLOTTESVILLE -:: VIRGINIA

(2ollege & (School

 

 

oe

AN INTERESTING BASEBALL SCHEDULE
AT WASHINGTON AND LEE THIS
SPRING

The W. and L,. baseball schedule for the coming
spring announced recently by R. A. Smith, graduate
manager of athletics, promises a number of games of
much interest on Wilson field, Lexington. ‘The
home games include Cornell, Pennsylvania, Bucknell,
North Carolina, V. P. I., Virginia, North Carolina
State, Davidson, Emory and Henry, Lynchburg col-
lege, and Birmingham Southern.

March 31—Roanoke college, Lexington.
April 3—Lynchburg college, Lexington.
April 8—Cornell, Lexington.

April 9—Cornell, Lexington.

April 11—Pennsylvania, Lexington.

April 13—Bucknell, Lexington.

April 16—North Carolina, Lexington.

April 20—V. P. I., Lexington.

April 24—Virginia, Lexington.

April 27—V. P. I., at Blacksburg.

April 30—North Carolina State, Lexington.
May 2—Virginia, Charlottesville.

May 4—Davidson, Lexington.

May 5 and Henry (pending), Lexington.
May &8—Birmingham-Southern, Lexington.
May 11—New York University, New York.
May 124—Seton Hall, Seton Hall, N. J.
May 13—Fordham, New York.

May 14—Georgetown, Washington.

May 15—Maryland, College Park.

May 16—Navy, Annapolis.

       

 

Reunions!

Special arrangements are being made for the com-
mencement reunion of classes whose class numerals
are in multiples of five.

 

Take Your Vacation

June 5-9 and come to Lexington for your class re-

union.

 

G. G. HARRIS
Contractor for Plumbing and Heating

Room 13, Knowles Building
Residence Phone 1008
STAUNTON, VA.

Office Phone 444

Estimates furnished promptly on any size job anywhere.

Plumbing and Heating Contractor for New Chemistry Building

Box 60

 

 

  

Mew Kyrock Book® Ready
—EE———S——

‘THE 1925 Kyrock Book tells the story of Kyrock
from the hills of Western Kentucky to the finished
pavement-quarrying, milling, transportation and
road and street construction. Thirty-five interesting
illustrations. This is a book every engineer will
want for his files, and one in which all road and
street officials will be interested. Your copy 1s
ready. Write for booklet W, L.

Kentucky Rock Asphalt Company

Incorporated

712-718 Marion E. Taylor Bldg. Louisville, Ky.
Canadian Office: Canada Permanent Bldg., Toronto

 

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

WEINBERG’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

COBB'S PRESSING SHOP

Dry Cleaning

PRESSING DYEING

 

Sandwiches Delivered Anywhere
to Students

Lexington Restaurant

 

 

PERSONALS

T. J. Bartlette, 69, is manager of the New Orleans
Credit Men’s Association.

Colonel and Mrs. Walter Forrester (’80) are spend-
ing the winter in Lexington with their daughter, Mrs.
L. J. Desha, and family. Mrs. Forrester will be re-
membered by many alumni as the daughter of Profes-
sor Alexander Nelson.

A. Lee Robinson, ’83, is president of the Robinson,
Pettit Company, wholesale druggists of Louisville,
Kentucky.

Douglas Anderson, "90, is professor of electrical engi-
neering and dean of the college of engineering of Tulane
University, New Orleans, Louisiana. Dean Anderson
writes that for the last three years he has been chair-
man of a committee appointed to investigate athletic
conditions in Southern colleges and universities. The
reports of the committee are published as part of the
report of the president of the Carnegie Foundation.

C. J. Boppell, 95, has just taken the pastorate of the
West Side Presbyterian Church of Seattle, Washington.

Samuel McC. Young, ’98, is Chief Engineer of the
Board of Commissioners of the Port of New Orleans.
He has sent to the Alumni Office some very interesting |
publicity material regarding the development of that
port.

Colonel A. M. Shipp, 98, is commandant of the R.
O. T. C. of Ohio State University. After graduation
at V. M. I. he came to Washington and Lee and played
quarterback during the year 97-98. He has been in ihe
army ever since.

B. F. Harlow, ’98, has acquired the Lexington Ga-
zette from the estate of W. R. Kennedy. His former
classmate, C. N. Feamster, is associated with him as
editor of the publication.

A. Dana Hodgdon, ’04, formerly of Leonardtown,
Maryland, is now Vice Consul at Stuttgart, Germany.
He took up his duties at that post last September.

W.L. Newman, ’04, is United States Title Attorney
at Woodstock, Virginia.

Charles S. McNulty, 04, has been practicing law in
Roanoke ever since his graduation. He has recently
moved his offices to the Shenandoah Life Building.

S. M. Engelhardt, ’09, is a cotton planter at Shorter,
Alabama.

Martin Caraballo, 07, and his wife have celebrated
their nineteenth wedding anniversary. Mr. Caraballo
is one of several W. and L. men who are successful
lawyers in Tampa, Florida.

Philip Williams, ’10, is Commonwealth’s Attorney at
Woodstock, Virginia, and Gilbert E. Pence, ’10, is also
practicing law in that city.

William Paxton, ’11, is manager of the Rockdale
Lime Company, and L. W. Wilson, also of ’11, is with
the Acme Paint and Lead Company, both located at
Woodstock, Virginia.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

PERSONALS

L. F. Klutz, 710, has been elected to the North Caro-
lina State Legislature from Catawba County.

Dr. A. F. Klutz, ’11 is a physician and surgeon of
Maiden, North Carolina.

The Rev. W. T. Hanzsche, ’13, is the author of a new
book, “The Great Themes of Jesus,” which will be pub-
lished next summer.
Jersey, of which Mr. Hanzsche is the pastor is now add-
ing $100,000 additions and enlargements to its plant.

S. C. Rose, 13, was occupied with the administration
of an estate in Tennessee after his discharge from the
army until the last few months when he became inter-
ested in the firm of Rose and Shinn, planters and mer-
chants, of West Point, Mississippi.

L. R. Hanna, ’13, is practicing law in Birmingham,
Alabama.

Maynard B. Smith, ‘14, is trustee of the John A.
Smith estate at Atlanta, Georgia.

N. Preston Moses, 15, and Miss Genevieve Hamric,
both of Lexington, Virginia, were married during De-
cember. Mr. Moses is assistant manager of the Moses
Brothers Flour Mill.

H. P. Magruder, ’15, of Woodstock, Virginia, is in
the fire insurance business.

S. S. McNeer, °16, writes that he is doing the “same
old thing—practicing law day in and day out.” He is
a member of the law firm of Livezey and McNeer,
Robson-Prichard Building, Huntington, West Vir-
ginia, and tells us that Joseph W. Fitchett, ’24, who is
now with that firm, is getting along nicely. Mr. Mc-
Neer’s young son will enter W. and L. in about sixteen
years.

W. Roy Campbell, ’17, is now auditor for the Hans
Watts Realty Company of Huntington, West Virginia.

J. Bonner Gladney is the senior partner of Gladney
and Watson, stock and bond dealers, 730 Gravier
Street, New Orleans.

B. Palmer Orr, ’19, writes that the he is trying to
learn the shipping business in New Orleans. He is in
his father’s firm, the Orr Fruit and Steamship Com-
pany.

 

The church in Trenton, New |

 

HAMRIC & SMITH

JEWELERS

Washington and Lee Belts
Seal Rings and College Jewelry

Prompt Mail Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

Cc. M. LAMBERT,Pres. and Treas. S. K. LAMBERT, Sec’y

Lambert Manufacturing Co.

Contractors for Buildings

All Kinds WAYNESBORO, VA.

Building Material
MILLWORK CONTRACTORS

for the
NEW BETA HOUSE and
GRAHAM DORMITORY

The Chas. H. Elliott Co.

The Largest College Engraving House in the World

 

Commencement Invitations Class Day Programs
Class Pins and Rings

Dance Programs and Invitations, Menus
Leather Dance Cases and Covers
Fraternity and Class Inserts for Annuals
Fraternity and Class Stationery
School Catalogs and Illustrations
Wedding Invitations, CallingCard

Seventeenth Street and Lehigh Avenue,
Philadelphia

 

 

Quality

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers
Charlottesville, Va.

Service
Printers of The Alumni Magazine

Reasonable Prices

 

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY’'S

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

“McCRU MS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

ALUMNI, STUDENTS AND FRIENDS

OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

Unexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

PERSONALS |

Robert P. Hobson, ’17, has announced the establish-
ment of the new law firm of Woodward, Warfield and
Hobson with offices in the Inter-Southern Building,
Louisville, Kentucky. Mr. Hobson became a member
of the firm when Judge Charles I. Dawson resigned.

David A. Falk, ’17, is in Tampa, Florida, with O.
Falk’s Department Store.

Cy Young, ’17, writes that besides trying to make a
living in the lumber business and working to get mem-
bers for the American Legion he is raising a halfback
for the 1937 Generals. Helena, Arkansas, is the scene
of Cy’s activities.

J. M. Bauserman, Junior, ’17, is an attorney practic-
ing in Woodstock, Virginia.

W. L. Harrell, ’17, is at the United States Veterans
Hospital, Oteen, North Carolina, near Asheville.

E. L. Gladney, Junior, ’18, is practicing law with the
firm of Denegre, Leavy and Chaffee, Whitney Build-
ing, New Orleans, Louisiana.

J. R. Fain, ’19, has become connected with the Owens
Credit Corporation of Danville, Virginia.

Kenneth Heyl, 19, of Huntington, West Virginia,
who was formerly with the Motor Transport Company
has now associated himself with Rogers and Company,
jewelers.

John W. Drye, Junior, ’19, is practicing law with the
firm of Larkin, Rathbone and Perry, located at 80
Broadway, New York City.

News of the birth of C. H. Patterson, Junior, was
received in Lexington by cable from Sutsien, China,
where “Big Pat” Houston Patterson, '19, is serving as
a missionary.

R. C. Buskirk, ’20, is with the Foster Thornburg
Hardware Company of Huntington, West Virginia.

Berkeley Cox, ’20, is practicing law in Richmond,
Virginia, with offices in the Travelers Building.

“Andy” Amick, ex-’20, has developed into a motion
picture star. He is attending medical college at Rich-
mond, Virginia, and was chosen for the leading role in
“Richmond’s Hero,” a two-reel comedy taken there
under the auspices of the Richmond Times Dispatch.

John Steer, ’21, is in Fayetteville, North Carolina,
for a short time in connection with some marble work
on a new hotel in that city.

News has been received that Sherman Ballard, ’21,
of Mullens West Virginia, became the father of twin
boys recently.

W. V. Ross, ’21 new prosecuting attorney of Mercer
County, Bluefield, West Virginia, has named A. J.
Lubliner, ’22, as his assistant.

Stuart Moore, ’21, is practicing law in Lexington,
Virginia.

Junius W. C. Wright, Junior, is manager of the
Foreign Department of the New Orleans Furniture
Manufacturing Company, New Orleans, Louisiana.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

Roy J. Grimley, ’21, has his law offices in the Wilsey
Building, Ridgewood, New Jersey.

Paul Thornburg, ’21, is with the Foster Thornburg
Hardware Company of Huntington, West Virginia.

We have not heard from J. W. Dupree, ’22, recently.
However, news of the arrival of a tiny daughter was
wafted to us by the tropical breezes from Tampa the
other day.

Dayton E. Carter, ’22, is superintendent of the
Huntington Wharf and Storage Company.

J. M. Nuckols, ex-’22 is a salesman of real estate
securities in Huntington.

Eddie Long, ’22, is general manager of the Hunting-
ton (West Virginia) Advertiser.

The class of ’22 is well represented in the courts of
Huntington, West Virginia—T. S. “Shrimp” Jones,
Joe Dingess, and G. M. “Baldy” McLaughlin are all
practicing there. |

J. Dean Owens, '22, has a thriving law practice in
Rome, Georgia.

J. R. Hainline, ex-’22, is with the Union Bank and
Trust Company of Huntington, West Virginia.

W. W. Ogden, ’23, is practicing law with the firm
of Guion and Upton, 809 Louisiana Building, New
Orleans.

Donald G. Grimley, ’23, is an employee of the West-
ern Electric Company at New York City.

Richard D. Jordan, ’23, and Miss Mabel Bryan
were married December twenty-eighth at Findlay,
Ohio.

“Red” Lester, ex-’24, is now in the furniture busi-
ness at Martinsville, Virginia.

David H. Lindsay, ’24, is practicing law in Fluvanna
County, Virginia, and teaching commercial law and
mathematics in Fork Union Military Academy.

“Pop” Taylor, ’24, is in Huntington, West Vir-
ginia,

Frank Switzer, ’24 is Assistant Manager, Secretary
and Treasurer of the Harrisonburg Telephone Com-
pany, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

35

 

Compliments

STUDENTS’ PRESSING
SHOP

 

W. C. FIREBAUGH

INSURANCE ADVISOR

 

Rockbridge County’s Largest Agency Built
by Giving Service

———

 

Rooms 4 and 5, Rockbridge National Bank Building
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

Lyons Tailoring Co.

TAILORS FOR COLLEGE MEN

COME IN OR WRITE US

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 75 Cents

 

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

A REVIEW OF THE BOXING AND
WRESTLING TEAMS TO DATE

(Continued from page 10)

On January 30 they boxed at the University of Vir-
ginia, and were forced to take the short end of a 5
to 1 score, after some exceedingly close decisions.
Dancaster in the bantam weight class was the only
Washington and Lee man to win his bout while
Ginsberg in the light weight division received a well
earned draw.

The North Carolina University glove wielders
were defeated by the Washington and Lee boxers 5
to 2 on the home mats on February 14. Lancaster.
Felsenthal and Wilkinson won decisions while Dur-
ham won via the technical knockout route. In the
135 pound class Gallagher of North Carolina won a
close decision over Hearon, after a bout filled with
much milling and exchanging of blows. The power-
ful right hand of Warren of North Carolina was too
much for Spotts who lost the decision after taking
three rounds of punishment from his strong ad-
versary. |

During the latter part of February the boxing
team took an eastern trip, boxing at Pennslyvania,
Colgate and Yale. This trip lowers the curtain on the
current season.

——

MINUTES OF LOUISIANA ALUMNI ASSOC.
(Continued from page 8)

of Paul Felder a committee was appointed to communi-

cate with the athletic authorities of W. and L. relative

to securing a football game with Tulane University as

early as possible, and Mr. Felder was named to take

up this matter.

The association passed a resolution of deep regret at
the announcement of Judge Bell that owing to the im-
possibility of attendance upon meetings of the Board
of Trustees he had been obliged to present his resig-
nation to that body. Judge Bell followed this an-
nouncement with an inspiring talk on the old college
which aroused the enthusiasm of all present.

The meeting was concluded with an interesting talk
on Robert E. Lee by Dr. Alexander and announce-
ment of the birth of Robert E. Lee IV, and the reading
of the W. and L. creed from the Alumni Magazine.

 

1925 BASKETBALL
(Continued from page 11)

as a basketball player. In the second half when the
West Virginia team covered Lake, the remainder of
the Washington and Lee team went on a rampage in
shooting goals, and they succeeded in making enough
points to add to Lake’s total to win the game. Van
Horn and Wilson played stellar basketball for the
White and Blue five.

The University of North Carolina, champions of the
Southern Conference last season, were the next oppo-
nents of the Generals, and the Tar Heels made the Big
Blue team take a severe drubbing to the tune of 31 to
15. The scoring machine of McDonald, and Cobb,
All-Southern forward, was at its best, scoring a total
of 18 points.

The Generals were not only off in their team work
but many shots were missed which would normally
have been goals. The Generals were held to six field
goals by the tight defense of the Carolinians and were
successful in but three free tries. Wilson and Funk
performed brilliantly for the losers.

The University of Virginia defeated the Generals
in their only combat of the year by the score of 41 to
27. This tilt was played in Charlottesville in the new
Fayerweather gymnasium. The team of veterans pre-
sented by the Old Dominion mentor, “Pop” Lannigan,
proved too much for the Blue and White. Holland,
playing left forward, was the prime cause of the Gen-
erals’ downfall, scoring no less than eight baskets.
Van Horn, elongated center on the Generals’ team, was
the only man that could do anything with the Cavaliers’
net quint. He was high point man for his mates with
ten markers and his defensive game was of the highest
caliber.

As the magazine goes to press the team has met
and defeated Duke University of Durham, North
Carolina. The Generals displayed their superiority
in every department of the game.

Following the defeat of Duke the Generals met the
Tar Heels of North Carolina for a return game on
their home court and upset the well-known dope
bucket by defeating them 29-22. It was one of the
most closely played matches of the season and was
featured by the brilliant playing of both teams.

Journeying from Chapel Hill to Atlanta for the
conference tournament the Generals met the strong
Tulane five and were forced to take the short end of
a 27 to 20 score, thus being eliminated from the
tournament.

 

Buena Vista Phone No. 3

 

ROBEY’S BUS LINE

Prompt Service

Buena Vista—Lexington

WE MEET ALL GRAINS

Lexington Phone No. 62

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PERSONALS

Joe Fitchett, ’24, is practicing law with the firm of
Livezay and McNeer in Huntington.

V. B. Watts, ’24 is an employee of the Hans Watts
Realty Company of Huntington, West Virginia.

W. Osborne Lee, ex-’24 took a summer law course
at Wake Forest last year and passed the North Caro-
lina state bar examination. He is now practicing with
his father under the firm name of Lee and Lee with
offices in the LaFayette Life Building, Lumberton,
North Carolina.

G. Fred Switzer, ex-’25, is cashier of the Harrison-
burg Telephone Company, Harrisonburg, Virginia.

James E. Humphreys, ex-’25, is Assistant Superin-
tendent of the Jackson Brothers planing mill at Fay-
etteville, North Carolina. He writes that Bob Yancey,
‘19, comes to Fayetteville about every two weeks driv-
ing a big Lincoln sedan and looking prosperous in
every way.

E. W. Richardson, ex-’26, is in the automobile busi-
ness in Martinsville, Virginia.

Wilton W. Conner, ’26, of Rock Castle, Virginia,
wrote in response to the invitation of the Washington,
D. C. Alumni to attend their Lee’s birthday meeting:
“T wish that I could be presnet. The General seems
very near to me here. Last evening I sat at the Gen-
eral’s place when we ate in the spacious dining room
of Bel Meade Manor where General Lee was a fre-

quent visitor when it was the home of General
Cocke.”

Reunions!

Special arrangements are being made for the com-
mencement reunion of classes whose class numerals
are in multiples of five.

 

Take Your Vacation

June 5-9 and come to Lexington for your class re-
union.

37

FURNESS

ERMUD

BERMUDA

Playground of Eternal Springtime

(Average Yearly Temperature of 70°)
Only 2 Days from New York

SAILINGS TWICE WEEKLY

From New York
Wednesday and Saturday

Tickets good on either steamer, insuring un-
equalled express service via Palatial New Twin-
Screw Oilburning Transatlantic Liners.

Ss. S. “FORT VICTORIA”
Ss. S. “FORT ST. GEORGE”
Modern Hotels All Sports

including Golf, Tennis, Sailing, Bathing, Horse Racing, Fishing,
Riding, Driving, Cycling, ete.

 

No Passports

ST. GEORGE HOTEL, St. George, Bermuda—Especially attractive,
located in the historic, picturesque and quaint part of Bermuda. Ex-
cellent cuisine and service. Magnificent tiled covered and heated
swimming pool.

 

For Illustrated Booklet on Bermuda or
St. George Hotel, write

FURNESS BERMUDA LINE
34 Whitehall Street NEW YORK
or Any Local Tourist Agent

 

 

UNIversITY SUPPLY STORE, INC.

BOOKS, STATIONERY, SUPPLIES
AND
ATHLETIC GOODS
Attractive Book Ends for Office Use

 

 

We challenge contradiction in saying that there is no other building material which, taken all in all, will com-
bine so many merits of quality and style, economy, strength and beauty in your home as face brick.

Brick has equal value for the poor man’s cottage or the rich man’s palace, for the cobbler’s shop or the city
hall, the wayside chapel or the metropolitan temple, and yet combines that strength and beauty which meets the
Other materials have their merits and make their appeal,
er material approaches brick in the structural and artistic
values it offers—permanence, comfort, safety from fire, economy, and beauty. You should talk the matter over
with us before deciding. It will cost you nothing and you are sure to get most valuable and practical sugges-

LOCHER AND COMPANY

GLASGOW, VIRGINIA

Members American Face Brick Association

requirements of both good taste and a thrifty purse.
but looking at the building problem on all sides, no oth

tions.

 

 

 

 

 

DOCTOR

LAW YER

MERCHANT

CHa

Have you a commodity for sale? Advertise in the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE and it will reach successful business and professional

men in every part of the country.

Have you a service for sale? Your card placed in the Profes-
sional Directory will be seen by other alumni of your profession

who may wish to refer business to someone in your town.

 

A W. and L. man will always patronize a fellow-alumnus in

preference to another. GIVE HIM THE CHANCE.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

 

ee

O_o

 

|
The Excellence of the New Beta Theta Pi Fraternity ~

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

House is Proved by the Distinctive Workman-
ship of the Following Firms
a ae
a=
YOUNG'S eS Sa SSS oe
ELECTRIC. jideeeibleeete : th F. A. DUNN
SHOP rece =
| | Eto aH q Hh ! Plumbing and
Wiring and i ll = gi | bce ee Ee |, | ee Ae. Heating
‘ | =4 sri | . Y fi ? a
Fixture i pe aE | ley ay ) a i “4 : Contractor
Contractors i - = . = fi }} | eed oo
| Cpe Eee aoe: Se pee tees) Lexington, Va.
ES ea ae Ee
Lexington, Va.e SS chs i eh oe =
Beta Theta Pi House
F. L. PRUETT PRUETT AND COFFEY _ W. W. COFFEY
Contractors 3
“Builders of Fine Buildings” LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

gs ES Te

 

 

 

NOTICE

PLEASE BE ADVISED THAT IN
THE NEW LOCATION, IN FIFTH
AVENUE, FINCHLEY HAS AR-
RANGED A UNIQUE, COMFORT-
ABLE, AND RATHER EXTRAOR-
DINARY FLOOR WAICH JS
DEVOTED EXCLUSIVELY TO
THE DISPLAY OF WEARABLES
FOR COLLEGE MEN. SUITS,
OVERCOATS, HATS, SHOES,
SHIRTS, WOOLIES AND VARIOUS
ACCESSORIES OF NOTABLE
STYLE AND. QUASI iae

Dole a IRIINCIHILIEAY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Suggested by ** Backs’’ , : ‘
of Old Trinity College, Fifth Avenue at 46™ Street
Cambridge, England NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

FOR YOUR LIBRARY !

“A good book is the precious life blood of a master-spirit.”—Multon.

 

RECOLLECTIONS AND LETTERS OF GENERAL ROB-
ERT E. LEE—By his son, Captain R. E. LEE. A handsome re-
edition of this great work with introduction by Gamaliel Bradford
and brief new material by Dr. William Taylor Thom. Handsomely
bound and illustrated. Published by Doubleday Page and Company.
For sale through the Alumni Incorporated by special arrangement.

Prepaid $5.00.

THE ALUMNI DIRECTORY AND SERVICE RECORD—

A catalog of every student of the University with a brief biography
of each. A half-century review of Washington and Lee progress.
World War records of all alumni in the service. Five hundred

pages, bound in cloth, standard book size 6 x 9 inches, to be deliv-
ered on or before May 15. Prepaid $3.50.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE—Five issues per school year,
profusely illustrated. Alumni news, alumni letters and a genera!
review of college activity and college plans. A forty-paze maga-
zine, size 9 x 12 inches, bi-monthly. Subscription per year $2.00.

If you have these publications in your own library order them
for your city library or high school reading room. Their presence
on the public book shelves with an appropriate inscription from you
will constitute a worthy memorial to yourself and a lasting gift to
the younger generation.

Money order or check payable to the Alumni Incorporated
should accompany order. Mail to Verbon E. Kemp, Alumni Secre-
tary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia.

 

 

 

