 

E. P. DAVIS, President C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

MAIL ORDERS FOR
RECORD, W. and L. Swing by W. and L. Orchestra—850c. prepaid
SHEET MUSIC, W. and L. Swing—30c. prepaid
W. and L. Banners—Pillow Tops and Pennants, $2.00 to $6.00
Promptly Filled
M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager R. A. SMITH, Secretary

THE A@MNI MAGAZINE
and SLIMMER BULLETIN

PUBLISHED BY

WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

—_——
—

4 CO Le 7 eo

E. C. Carrrey, President VERBON FE. Kemp, Editor
E. L. GrawaM, Jr., Treasurer Dora Wirt, Associate Editor

Entered as Second Class Matter at the Post Office of Lexington, Va., September 15, 1924.

——a—F 7. “=

| CONTENTS

PAGE PAGE
Memerve Opens ......00.+-0ss cen. - an 5 W., SE Prem Re 5 NS iw soo ig’ «2 0-0: Me ee 26
Meepel Visitors ...5...ceeess see - «se 6 James Somerville, 712, Assistant Trade Commis-
memmencement, 1926 .......sauue... osm 7 SIOMEL 1... cece cece esc c cece ccc e eee ecevens 27
Football News, Princeton Game, etc...........- 8-11 John H. Sorrells, ’17, Becomes Managing Editor. 27
mm D. Converse, "15s. 5..3. sige - . Ue 13 Aluqmie Sonstttamnoe: iv cies. ow. i... usa cheese 28-29
With the Faculty—Dr. D. B. Easter........... 15 J. Ey ok vice ns <>» Css ks Oe gee 30
Personal Recollections of General Lee (Miss An- W. atid. Loe Borate emis. 2 ok. ees ete 31-34

me White) ....ccceeat beiee -~ <n 16 Franke 2 een, URS oa es eee 34

Semepaseball Team -..:.. sss. cme . «sue 17 W. L. Freeland, ’11, Appointed Circuit Judge.... 35
Seems Coming True ..:....Gmme-. . cae 29 William McC. Morrison, Pioneer of Civiliza-
Three Generations (Albert Steves, I, II, III)... 21 ra oo ets fl aus asaees ci Gees 2 sh 37-39
Alumni Meetings, January 19th................ 22 War Letters of Kiffin Yates Rockwell, 713
Another Africa Pioneer—Thomas J. Jones...... 23 PRS 255 io oo due vies sta paso ce Rs oS 40
men the “Y” ...) Uglies... cee 24 Pes ee ae. 5. vga. cae 41-42
mmerison B. Smith; °845..0,<naees . . . case 2D

a
rT

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S “LEE AFTER APPOMATTOX”, prepaid $2.50

(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL. PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

; iat gees aw - “ :
pM or atest 4 a are 5 hae ‘Pht - yp? 3, eee
pict ish ipcdestestemerial aot ae ag Piacoa aegis 28 Peat eu ri
eyes! | : , ghar SPAM oe (then ree i adi or nae ete .
q He
rp ie i a -
“sti
i Prayer ary Ssh ly
Nit ti Seo coo ti Pe 4
od. in Ua

>

aa | .

2”. ue \ o

ei iia ph a
ae it ‘

oe
an
mo

, a

Shi ke

jfile wth ui ae i a
ei a Epis yy es
r 2 eS ean

ay! ay Pas Me. Se °
rg a wt Pamul gue

‘

New CHEMISTRY BUILDING

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

and SUMMER BULLETIN

 

 

 

VoL. Il NOVEMBER, 1926 No. 5
eel . .
Issued Bi-Monthly by the Washington and Lee Alumni, Incorporated
<< l!

The 177th Session Opens

Using the gymnasium for an auditorium, students,
old and new, gathered for the formal opening of the
college year Friday morning, September 17th. Stu-
dents had assemlled for the same purpose at Augusta
Academy, Liberty Hall, Liberty Hall Academy and
Washington Academy from 1749 until 1803. They
frst assembled on the present site for the session 1804-
5. They continued to gather at Washington Academy,
Washington College and Washington and Lee Uni-
versity every year except one (1864-65) until the
present. Thus the 177th session.

Faculty and trustees entered in academic procession.
Every student arose and remained standing through
the opening prayer. President Henry Louis Smith
formally announced the opening of the 177th college
year. Karl Zerfoss, Y. M. C. A. Secretary, presented
the local ministers to the student body. President
Smith delivered his annual address. Sophisticated
sophomores, judical juniors and serious seniors sat up
and took notice. Freshmen were enthralled. Dr.
Smith celebrated the opening of his fifteenth year of
service at Washington and Lee with a brief address of
such force and power, couched in terms of simple elo-
quence, that the most lethargic were aroused. (Address
reported below.)

Total registration will approximate 890. The fresh-
men came first and were greeted with a special three
days program arranged for their benefit. Psycholog-
ical tests occupied most of their first day. Registration
filled another. On Tuesday evening they were greeted
in the Chapel by President Smith and Maynard Holt,
able student body president. Dr. W. G. Bean gave them
sound advice on the selection of courses. At the
Chapel on the following evening the freshmen heard
Dr. L. W. Smith on the history and traditions of W.
and I.. and Dr. J. L. Howe on “Fraternities”. They
shivered as L,. S. Stemmons (220 pound Varsity Guard
for three years), president of the Freshman Council,
explained the rules for freshman discipline. Again
they assembled at the Chapel Thursday morning and
evening to receive counsel from Prof. R. N. Latture,
Prof. Robert H. Tucker, Dr. Wm. M. Brown, Coach
Forest Fletcher, Dr. B. A. Wooten, Dean H. D.
Campbell, “Ken” Durham, Prof. (Uncle “Bud”) Hale
Houston, and Prof. W. W. Morton. Thus fortified,

 

Preswwent Henry Louis Smitu—Speaks

 

 

over three hundred “new men” started their W. and
L,. careers.

In the meantime, Coach Herron’s charges spent a
week in working out the kinks. Fraternity houses
were put in order and “rushing” started. Victrolas
wailed. ‘The post office came to life. Homesick fresh-
men notified the Dean that “Father needed them in the
business”; decamped. Telephone posts displayed
“Rooms and Board” signs. Antiquated autos dis-
guised and camouflaged in every conceivable color,
adorned the curbs! College Opened !!

President Smith chose for the subject of his opening
address, “The Five Big Lessons of the College Course.”
“Learn to work; to cooperate; to fight; to love; and
te grow while at college,” he said. “All are necessary.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

“Learn to work wisely, persistently, happily, zeal-
ously, successfully; to drive rather than to drift, to
lead rather than to lean. Energetic labor is the straight
road to happiness, success and leadership.

“Learn to cooperate—to work with other people.
This is the age of triumphant Democracy in politics,
legislation, industry, and social life. Organized co-
operation is the miracle worker of the 20th century.
Learn to work with and for other people.”

Dr. Smith urged the students to fight wisely, cour-
ageously and persistently.

“To fight your enemies within, your weaknesses and
lusts and bodily appetites, and your enemies without
although they are your own friends, your party, your
‘Gang.’ This is proof and crown of individual man-
hood.

“Learn to love wisely, loyally, faithfully, and up-
liftingly. Of all human faculties and attributes the
power to love and to be loved is almost nearly divine.
As a generator of human happiness, human activity
and human efficiency, the heart outranks the head.

“A cool head, an iron will, and a loving heart make
an irresistible combination,” he said.

“Learn to grow in body and in mind, in temperament
and personality, in habits and motives, in knowledge
and breadth and driving-power. Youth is the time to
grow; the modern university is the place to grow, and
opportunities around you are an insistent call to grow.

“Grow like a forest tree, outward in love and
breadth and interest, downward in strength and_ will
power and deep rootedness of principle, and upward in
love and faith and hope and aspiration.

a these five lessons are earned at Washington and
Lee,” he said in conclusion, “you will be a happy and
dccesst ul student, the joy and pride of your home-
circle, your Alma Mater’s richest asset, and a ‘leading
citizen’ of our glorious Republic.”

 

30,000 VISIT CHAPEL DURING PAST YEAR

Nearly three times as many visitors as there are
inhabitants in the entire town here where the body
rests came to the tomb and recumbent statue of Rob-
ert E. Lee in the chapel of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity during August alone, chapel records show.

Persons from twenty-four states were shown
through the mausoleum the last day of September.
Many were northerners. Fifty-one came from
twenty-two foreign countries, including Australia,
Spain, Guatemala, India, China, Japan and South
Africa.

The number for August, 1926, was 8,110—1212
more than for the same month last year. In July 5,600
registered. Visitors to the tomb this year exceed in
umber by 7,217 those who came last year. Mrs. Ed-

  
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  
 
   
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
    
  
   
  
  
 
 
 
  
   

wards, U. D. C. custodian, conservatively est: in
the total to be 30,000. 2
Giles B. Cook, a major and aide on Lee’s staff, \
ited the chapel this summer and asked to see “Mar
Robert and to make a prayer at his grave.”
become deeply affected with emotion in the sta
room and kneel to pray at the foot of the marble |
ure of the General asleep on the battlefield, Mrs, ]
wards says. —
Stalays and Hamer, two boys from (Col oil
Texas, had just six dollars apiece to make a trip tl
summer, But they wanted to see the tomb, so t
made it do somehow. s
“Gosh,” they said in the statue room, “I an
take anything for this.” =
Distinguished visitors to the tomb this sumr ts
clude Mary Custis Lee De Butts, General Lee’s ¢
daughter; General J. E. Harbord, U. S. Army; M |
William Ellis, Shawsville, Va., daughter of Pres; ‘
John Tyler; Ex-Governor Lee ‘Trinkle, who placed
wreath on the tomb; Bishop and Mrs. La Mott ee
Hawaii. John Drinkwater, British dramatist, vis
the tomb in February.

PHI KAPPA PSI, KAPPA ALPHA AND PI
EPSILON PI CHANGE QUARTERS

Three changes in the location of fraternity hous
have been made this fall. Phi Kappa Psi, former
on the corner of Main and White Streets, have move
into the former Hamric property, at 88 Main Stree
Kappa Alpha, on Letcher Avenue, has purchassaa
property three houses closer to the University tha
they occupied last year. Phi Epsilon Pi has mov ve
from Jackson Avenue to the Moses House at |
South Main Street. “s

DR. LATANE GIVEN CROSS OF LEGION
OF HONOR OF FRANCE 2

Dr. John H. Latane, professor of American iis:
tory and lecturer on international law at Johns Hop:
kins University, Baltimore, former professor @
Washington and Lee, recently received the cross ©
the French Legion of Honor. It was presented 4
the French embassy in Washington by the counselo ©
the embassy. The cross was presented in recognitiol t
of Dr. Latane’s literary and historical work with
reference to France. In presenting the cross it was
announced by the French official that he believed =
decoration was never so well deserved. eg

 

Honcrable Newton D. Baker, ’94, will rep esent
Washington and Lee at the Western University Cem
tennial conference on November 12th and 13th, i
Cleveland, Ohio. ;

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7 7

Commencement, 1926

Alumni, parents of students and friends poured into
Lexington from June 4th to the 9th for the 176th
Commencement of Washington and Lee. From the
close of the last examination until the close of the Final
Ball the campus was a scene of colorful activity. Then
the exodus.

The annual series of dances occupied the attention of
the under-graduates and the visiting girls. Class re-
unions, old friends and familiar scenes interested the
returned alumni. Parents basked in the reflected

radiance of their graduating sons.

On ‘Tuesday morning the impressive Academic pro-
cession formed at Newcomb Hall. The black gowned
figures moved down the Colonnade, crossed the campus,
solemnly entered the Chapel. There 115 Seniors re-
ceived sheepskins. Of that number four were created
Masters of Arts, thirteen Bachelors of Law, forty-
seven Bachelors of Arts, nine Bachelors of Science
and forty-two Bachelors of Science in Commerce.

Honorable John Barton Payne, Chairman of the
American Red Cross, was the speaker of the occasion.
Emmet MacCorkle delivered the Valedictory address ;
Rev. Donald W. McCluer, ’06, of Portland, Oregon,
pronounced the Invocation and Rey. E. E. Smith of
Owensboro, Kentucky, the Benediction. Judge Payne
received a degree of Doctor of Law from the Uni-
versity. Mr. McCluer and Mr. Smith were created
Doctors of Divinity.

Judge Payne spoke of the importance of being taught
by example. He paid tribute to George Washington
and Robert E. Lee. He stressed intellectual honesty
‘and alertness of mind, and advised life-long study and
selected reading. He plead for tolerance. “Being
educated,” said the speaker, “depends not upon what the
mind contains, but upon what it is able to do.” His
address rang with good, sound advice.

A new feature of the exercise was the presentation
by Dr. Smith of a prize to the best “Washington and
Lee citizen”. The prize was donated by Paul D. Con-
verse, ’15, and the result of a poll taken in the student
body showed that two students had tied for the honor.
The prize was divided and awarded to R. Maynard
Holt of Memphis, Tenn., and Kenneth A. Durham, of
Chattanooga, Tenn.

On Monday, Alumni Day, the usual program had
been carried out. ‘The Alumni, incorporated, held its
annual meeting in the Library Building. A buffet
luncheon was served on the Dining Hall lawn. Lee’s
Dormitory was alumni headquarters and the gathering
place of returned prodigals. The alumni figure at the
Senior-Alumni ball, Monday night, was lead by J. R.
(“Jimmy”) Caskie, ’06, staunch W. & L. supporter
and now a University trustee, of Lynchburg, Virginia.

Alumni registering for Commencement were: H.

 

 

 

 

 

Hon. JoHn Barton PAYNE

 

 

O. Stone, ’09, Richmond, Va.; A. J. Cummings, ’22,
Oak Ridge, N. C.; J. Vaughn Penn, ’23, Madison, N.
C.; E. A. Harnsbarger, ’20, Williamson, W. Va.;
Francis B. Kemp, Jr., 24, Reidsville, N. C.; J. C. Dunn,
’25, Millboro, Va.; Bruce Draper, ’25, Tampa, Fila. ;
Lansing B. Maye, ’20, Albany, Ga.; Sinclair Phillips,
‘24, Tampa, Fla.; Richard Beard, ’23, Albany,
Ga.; Frank Moore, ’96, Lexington, Va.; Charles
A. Tutwiler, ’24, Welch, W. Va.; F. C. Currie, ’22,
Memphis, Tenn.; Louis H. Towles, ’24, Washington,
D. C.; John G. Herndon, Jr., ’11, Philadelphia, Pa. ;
G. E. Rogers, ’22, Summerton, S. C.; C. F. Sherrod,
‘72, Columbus, Miss.; R. M. Cabell, ’20, Covington,
Va.; Thos. M. Harman, ’25, Pikeville, Ky.; Edwin
C. Caffrey, 09, Newark, N. J.; D. B. Owen, ’12,
Doylesville, Va.; J. H. McGinnis, ’16, Beckley, W.
Va.;: G. D. Davidson, ’13, Warriormine, W. Va.; Wm.
P. McCorkle, ’76, Burlington, N. C.; B. H. Arbogast,
'23, Asheville, N. C.; Roy J. Grimley, ’21, Ridgewood,
N. J.; Donald W. M. MacCluer, ’07, Portland, Oregon;
Paul M. Penick, ’87 and °96, Lexington, Va.; M. I.
Dunn, Jr., ’23, Huntington, W. Va.; C. S. Glasgow,
09, Lexington, Va.; H. Claude Pobst, ’06, Grundy,

 

 

(Continued on Page 42.)

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Prnceton—W. & L. Game

(New York Times, October 10)

Princeton, N. J., Oct. 9.—Princeton had a narrow
escape from defeat at the hands of Washington and
Lee in the second game of its season here today, the
Tigers barely managing to eke out a 7 to 7 tie against
the Virginians. Had there been a few minutes more
to play, it is likely as not that the Generals campus
~ down at Lexington would now be a scene of gleeful
celebration for when time was called the visitors were
on the Tigers 20-yard line.

Just before the game ended, Spotts, the visitors’
left end, who was a busy young man this afternoon,
intercepted a Tiger lateral pass and ran thirty yards
before he was brought to earth by Joe Prendergast.
Before the blue jerseyed warriors had time to try
more than one play time was called and the day saved
for Princeton.

Twice before that experience the Tigers managed
to work themselves out of bad holes when failure in
either instance would have meant their downfall.
Once was in the opening period when Lott, a substi-
tute back with an educated toe, failed to negotiate an
easy drop kick from the 20-yard line.

Again in the fourth period this same individual had
a chance to win fame from the 30-yard mark, but be-
fore he could get the ball off, Bartell, the Tiger cen-
tre, was through to block the attempt and avert disas-
ter, which did not threaten the Tigers again until
Spotts managed to corral the pass that Prendergast
aimed at Norman.

Although all they got for their exertions was a tie
with the eleven that captured the Big Three honors a
year ago, the Generals had all the best of it through-
out the sixty minutes of play, outrushing the Tiger
backs, putting up a better defensive game, outpassing
their opponents and being more alert.

Only in one department did Princeton excel, that
was in the kicking line, in which Slagel and Requardt,
who bore the brunt of the work, outdistanced Rau-
ber, the Washington and Lee full-back.

In spite of his weak kicking, however, Rauber put
his team in a position to win the game.

Washington and Lee had the ball in’ Princeton’s
territory for the greater part of the first period.
After Rosengarten kicked off for the Tigers, White,
the Generals’ quarterback, made a 7-yard return.
Princeton was twice offside, bringing the ball almost
to midfield, Rauber, the big W. and L. fullback, who
bore the brunt of the Generals’ attack, made a first
down by circling Weekes on a 10-yard run, carrying
the ball to the Tigers’ 40-yard line.

After the Tigers again lost ground through a pen-
alty, they made a firm stand and halted W. and L,.’s

the field for a touchdown.

  
   
   
    
 
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
   
   
 
   
    
  
   
   
  
   
   
 

further progress, taking the ball on downs at the 3¢
yard line when two forward passes found no one o
the reception end. ‘a

Princeton then started a march of its own wir
was progressing nicely until Requardt fumbled —
ball on the W. and L. 47-yard line, where Spots
covered for the Generals. :

Here the visitors, having discovered their inabilit
to make progress through the Tiger line, resorted ¢
the passing game and soon advanced the ball to th
Princeton 20-yard line. Failing to make ground e
ther through the air or along the ground, Lott us
substituted for Palmer and, dropping back to the 23.
yard line, he essayed a drop kick that missed its mat

For the remainder of the period, both sides re.
sorted to punting, and the first quarter ended
the ball in the Tigers’ possession on their own &
yard line. It set the stage for a great piece of run.
ning on the part of Ted Williams, Tiger back, ot
the first play in the second period.

Taking the ball on a direct pass from Bartell,
liams faked a run around end, cut back, and swer
past the defending backs and was on his way dowr
Only one man was neat
him as he reeled off his 63 yards, that being Holt, a
tackle, who failed to reach the Tiger racing towar«
the W. and L. goal line. Requardt booted a d Pp
kick between the posts and the score was Princeton
7, Washington and Lee 0. “

Williams made a fine return of the next kick-o Ty.
bringing the ball to the 35-yard line, but on the next |
play a pass from Williams was intercepted by White,
who dashed 10 yards before he was hauled down.
Failing to gain, the Generals punted, but Rauber’s
attempt went out of bounds only 10 yards from
where the pass was made. Be

The Tigers opened up with a passing attack ot
their own and after Moeser had permitted one per-
fect toss to pass untouched through his hands, Wil-
liams and Weekes completed a beauty, which gained
nearly 40 yards for the Tigers, taking the ball to
visitors’ 30-yard line. 4

The Tigers gained only 5 yards by rushing and
were forced to surrender the ball on the 25-yard line,
from where Rauber punted almost immediately to—
Williams, who returned the ball to midfield. A for-
ward pass, Williams to Moeser, gained 25 yerdegg
taking the ball to the Washington and Lee 25-ye
line, but the Generals braced and took the ball on —
downs, Rauber immediately punting out of danger.

Princeton attempted another pass, but this time —
the ball was intercepted by a W. and L. player ¢ on

 

(Continued on Page 33.)

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 9

Football

Football prospects for this season cannot be safely
redicted. That we have a well coached, smooth,
hard fighting team is an established conclusion. But
lative force and effectiveness against strong op-
osition has not been shown at this writing.

Though “Pat” Herron is a “new” coach serving
his first year at Washington and Lee, he has won
the confidence of everyone who knows him. His
knowledge of football and his ability to teach and
inspire the players were felt in the early practice last
spring. He has an able assistant in “Kay” Thomas,
Varsity letter man for his entire period of eligibil-
‘ty and Captain of the 1924 team. With “Dick”
Smith and Eddie Davis, the coaching staff is com-

its re

plete—and sufficient.

In the back field the Generals will have ‘more
speed and power than ever before. The veterans,
Palmer and Rauber, will be aided by Howe, Tips,
Latham and Stearnes from last year’s substitutes.
In addition, Whitlock, Lott and White from _ last
year’s freshman team can take regular berths upon
demand. Whitlock gives every indication of be-
coming a sensation in another year, while White
bids fair to succeed Ty Rauber as a line plunging
star after the veteran’s graduation.

As indicated in press dispatches the development
of the line is the most serious task faced by the
coaches. Maynard Holt, tackle, Johnny Dawson,
guard, and Spotts, end, were the only varsity letter
men back. ‘The vacancies have been filled by Rector
and Groop at center, Fitzpatrick and Fisher at
tackle, Tips has been taken from the back field and
tried at guard, and Dorsey and Bailey have played
the end position vacated temporarily on account of
the injury to “Curly” Sanders. The line thus
evolved appears satisfactory, though it lacks re-
serves.

In the games played thus far the showing of the
team has been gratifying. Against Lynchburg Col-
lege in the opener, the Generals presented a smooth
working combination, with Whitlock and Palmer al-
ternating for sensational gains and Captain Rauber
plunging and punting with even greater effective-
ness. The line crumbled against the onslaught of

 

 

 

 

- 72 , ~ * ¥
i Ls

 

Coacn “Pat” Hrerron—‘Won Confidence”

 

 

West Virginia, but the powerful mountaineer ma-
chine has mowed through great General lines in other
years for a much larger score. At this writing the
Princeton game remains before the first Southern
Conference game is played. Then the Generals
meet Kentucky, Georgia Tech, Virginia, V. P. L.,
Maryland and Florida in the order named.

Barring serious injury in the line, Washington
and Lee should cop the majority of these games
with a bare possibility of annexing them all for the
Southern Conference Championship. The speed of
the back field and the wealth of reserve back field
material prompts this optimism.

 

 

 

GENERALS’ BackFieLp—“Speed and Power”

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

ATLANTA ALUMNI PREPARE FOR TECH
GAME

With the W. & L. —Georgia Tech game scheduled
at Grant Field, Atlanta, Georgia, October 23rd, At-
lanta alumni are busy making plans for entertaining
visiting alumni and for securing a large attendance
of W. & L. rooters at the game.

At a recent meeting, Maynard Smith, °13, was
elected president of -the Atlanta Chapter. He suc-
ceeds Ewing S. Humphreys, °14, in that important
position.

Tickets in the W. & L. section for the Tech game
can be secured in advance at $2.00 each by writing to
Maynard Smith, 34 Westminster Drive, Atlanta,
Georgia. Alumni headquarters will be established at
the Atlanta-Biltmore Hotel a few days preceding the
game. ‘Tickets may be secured there at that time.
However, to ensure getting good seats reservations
should be secured in advance by mail from Mr. Smith.

The Generals have not met the Golden Tornado
since 1919, when they upset the well known dope
bucket by defeating the Tech warriors by a score of
3 to 0, the educated toe of “Jimmy” Mattox providing
the margin of victory. That defeat was the first one
suffered by Tech on her home field for five years. The
encounter this year will find the golden clad warriors
out for revenge. A thrilling battle royal may be ex-
nected.

 

Five issues of the ALUMNI MacGazine, $2.50 per
year (2 years, $4.00), “The only membership dues
assessed by the Alumni Association, Inc.” Send
check or money order to the Alumni Secretary, Lex-
ington, Va.

FLORIDA PLANS

While no detailed report of the plans of the Jack- 4
sonville Alumni Association for the annual Florida— _
W. and L. Thanksgiving clash has been received, it js a
to be supposed that Fred Valz and his efficient helpers
will carry out their usual program of entertainment, —

Tickets for the game may be reserved in advance §
writing to Fred Valz, Atlantic National Bank Build. _
ing, Jacksonville, with remittance of $2.00 each.

Alumni headquarters will be established at the new

Carling Hotel at Jacksonville.

 

RICHMOND ALUMNI MEET

The Richmond Alumni Association gathered at the a
Westmoreland Club recently for their regular fall
meeting. Mr. George P. Haw was re-elected presi-
dent and a program for the year adopted. From re-
ports that have reached Lexington, the meeting was
well attended and unusually interesting.

 

FOOTBALL RALLY IN NEW YORK

Football predominated at the annual fall meeting of
the Manhattan Alumni Association held at the Lafay- —
ette Hotel, Friday evening, October 8th. “Jogger”
Elcock, “Dick” Smith, ’15, Forest Fletcher and Dr.
R. G. Campbell were the chief speakers. A detailed ©
account of the meeting will be given in the next issue
of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

 

Sinclair Phillips, ’24, is practicing law in Tampa,
Florida.

 

 

Hour Sports
Tackle End

 

 

DAWSON
Guard

 

MAINSTAYS OF THE LINE

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ee

The Home Coming Game November 20th

The chief attraction on Home-Coming Day this
year will be the football game with the University of
Maryland on Wilson Field Saturday, November 20th.
This will be the first appearance of the old liners on
Lexington soil for a number of years. It is also the
only home game scheduled during the remainder of
the season.

Good roads and convenient train and bus schedules
make it possible for alumni from all of the surround-
ing states to attend the game. In addition the new
Robert E. Lee Hotel should be in operation by that
time, since the formal opening is set for November
1st. So accommodations will be available for all.

Elsewhere in this issue of the Alumni Magazine
will be found blanks for the reservation of tickets for
the Home-Coming game. A view of the new Wilson
Field will be worth the price of admission. Excellent
playing conditions should prevail and there will be
ample seating space.

The Generals have met the old liners on their home
field at College Park, Md., for the past four years.
They have returned victorious three times out of the
four. However, in each losing game the Maryland
team exercised a constant menace to the Generals’

goal line until the final whistle. The teams have al-
ways been evenly matched. Consequently the final
scores have always been close. This year Maryland
appears to have an unusually strong team.

There will be no official alumni entertainment pro-
gram for the Home-Coming game, but Alumni Head-
quarters will be established at the Robert E. Lee
Hotel and visiting alumni welcomed there. The game
will start at 2:30 P. M. ‘Tickets may be reserved
upon remittance of $2.00 to Graduate Manager R. A.
Smith, at Lexington.

DINING HALL UNDER NEW
MANAGEMENT

The Washington and Lee dining hall this year is
operated under the direction of the athletic association
and not directly under the University authorities.
Graduate Manager R. A. Smith has supervision. Miss
Agnes Grant, a dietician and native Canadian, arrived
to actively manage the dining hall. She comes from
a hospital at Dayton, Ohio.

 

J. L. Shawan, ’84, living in Cynthiana, Kentucky,
is engaged in farming.

 

 

Football Schedule

 

 

 

 

W. & Alumni
~ L. Date Place Time Tickets from Cost Alumni Hdars. Entertain-
= ment

Lynchburg Sept. 26—Lexington 3:00 R.A. Smith, $1.00 Newcomb Hall

College Lexington, Va.

West Va. Oct. 2—Laidly Field 2:00 Brown Truslow, 2.00 Holly Hotel, Dance
Charleston, Charleston, Charleston,
West Va. West Va. W. Va.

Princeton Oct. 9—Princeton 3:00 J. R. Murray, Princeton Inn, Dinner,
Stadium Princeton, N. J. Princeton, N. J. N. Y. City

Kentucky Oct. 16—Stoll Field 3:00 S.A. Bowles, 2.00 Lafayette Hotel, Banquet
Lexington, Ky. ; U. of Ky. Lexington, Ky.

Ga. Tech. Oct. 23—Grant Field 2:30 Maynard Smith, 2.00 Atlanta-Biltmore Banquet
Atlanta, Ga. 34 Westminster Drive, Hotel, Atlanta,

Atlanta, Ga Ga.

Virginia Nov. 6—Lambeth Field 2:30 Ellis Brown, 2.00 Monticello Hotel,
Charlottesville University, Va. Charlottesville

or. I, Nov. 13—Municipal Sta- 2:30 Sports Corp., Virginian Hotel Dance
dium, Lynch- Lynchburg, Lynchburg
burg, Va. Va.

‘Maryland Nov. 20—Wilson Field, 2:30 R.A. Smith, 2.00 Newcomb Hall
Lexington, Va. Lexington, Va.

Florida Nov. 25—-Municipal Sta- 2:30 Fred Valz, 2.00 Carling Hotel, Banquet

dium, Jackson-

Jacksonville,
ville, Fla. Fla.

Jacksonville,
Fla.

 

+ ae THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Troubadour Plans

By E. H. Miiuer, President

The Washington and Lee Troubadours is one of
the most important organizations which our Univer-
sity can have, if it realizes its true potential possibili-
ties and acts accordingly. The truth of such a state-
ment cannot be denied if the matter is given the proper
amount of consideration.

Consider what assets to their institutions are the
Princeton Triangle Club, the Michigan “Mimes” and
other similar organizations, in a financial and advertis-
ing way especially, not to mention the benefit to the
members of the organizations themselves, who get the
pleasure and experience of otherwise impossible travel
and training. ‘Che only reason for the Troubadours
not occupying a similar position of prestige in the
South has been lack of the spirit of initiative; but this
year, it is hoped, will mark the beginning of an era of
progress. }

The initial venture on a large scale will be a trip
which is planned to take place during the Christmas
holidays, and the nature of the production is a musical
comedy of college life. The lines and music of this
production are on a par with the best college shows
produced, which statement will not reflect on the
show, it is hoped, for it is not the conventional col-
lege comedy, very justly ridiculed at every hand. The
entertainment which it will provide will be ample for
the most discriminating, but the alumni can find this
out in due time when the performances are held. The
tentative itinerary is as follows: Danville, Va., Win-
ston-Salem, N. C.; Spartanburg, S. C.; Greenville, 5.
C.; Atlanta, Ga.; Montgomery, Ala.; Birmingham,
Ala.; Chattanooga, Tenn,; Knoxville, Tenn.; Bristol,
Tenn.-Va.

Two hundred men reported to the first call for try-
outs and a wealth of material is at hand for the cast,
the chorus and the dance orchestra which the show
will carry on its trip. The occasion for such a venture
seems propitious, and the production, it is felt, can-
not fail to be an unqualified success if our alumni in
the above mentioned cities will give to it their whole-
hearted support. That this is absolutely necessary is
perfectly obvious, for no matter how excellent a per-
formance is given in each city, it cannot be a financial
success, and will be even a financial failure, if it is not
well attended. ‘This should be a vital matter to alumni
as well as to students, for the benefit which their
Alma Mater will derive from the success of a pro-
duction of this nature cannot fail to be their own bene-
fit and pleasure as well.

Therefore, the Troubadours earnestly urge your in-
terest and support in making this trip a success. While
Christmas is yet a considerable distance in the future,
a trip of this kind cannot be attempted without plan-

  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
     
  
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

ning far ahead; hence this article is not so prematu:
as might be supposed. Any suggestions as to ¢
ments of any kind for the trip will be appreciated
Address communications to “The Troubadours,
ington, Virginia.”

“MINK” RE-ESTABLISHED

Realizing the need of a medium whereby the stud
ents of the University can give vent to their wits anc
frivols, the Executive Committee of the student body
in conjunction with the Publication Board at a meet
ing held late in the spring, authorized and gave it:
support to a move te re-establish the “Mink”, Wash-
ington and Lee’s old humorous monthly. a

The Publication Board with the approval of the
Executive Committee appointed Jarius Collins, Jr.,
‘28 L,. as Editor, and Thomas B. Bryant, Jr., ’28 L.
Business Manager. ‘These men were considered a:
the best available to put the difficult job across. Mr.
Collins has seen service with nearly all publication e of
forts since he entered school and was Art Editor the
last year of the old “Mink.” Mr. Bryant has jus
concluded a very successful year as manager of he
Ring-tum-Phi, and will no doubt prove equally as ef-
ficient in handling the purse strings of the re-estab-
lished monthly. Ee

The subscription campaign has just been brought
to a successful close, and it was very gratifying to
those who were responsible for the idea to realize that
the entire student body was so undividedly bela “
Iditor and Manager. '

The policy of the revived “Mink” it to be one of
pure wit and frivolity—none of the so called dirt that
has caused so much adverse criticism of this type ¢
college publication will be allowed to get past the edi-
torial staff. Contributions and suggestions for im-
provement will always be welcomed by the staff. They
should be addressed to the Editor. a

  

as
a "i

 

ALUMNI SONS

Among last year’s graduates were six sons of WwW.
and L. alumni. They were Andrew A. Payne, L. L.
B., son of W. D. Payne, ’09, of Charleston, West Va.; —
Henry Lee, B. A., son of Judge J. P. Lee, ’88, of J
Rocky Mount, Va.; Emmett W. McCorkle, Jr., B.
A., son of Rev. E. W. McCorkle, ’74, of Rockbridge -
Baths, Va.; Thomas F. Moore, B. A., son of Frank ~
Moore, ’96, of Lexington, Va.; Hugh B. Sproul, |
Jr., B. S. Commerce, son of Hugh B. Sproul, ’92, of ©
Staunton, Va., and William F. Smith, B. A., son of |
Dr. Ballard R. Smith, ’77, (deceased) of Creenvilleam
Va. a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

Paul D. Converse, ’15, Inspires W. & L. Students

At a student body assembly late last spring, every
student received a blank stating that “a loyal alumnus,
now 2 professor at a great university, offers a valu-
able prize to the ‘most ideal and typical’ W. and L.
student, excelling in four characteristics which are to
be considered of equal rating value in judging his
leadership.” The “loyal alumnus” was Paul D. Con-
verse, 15, now professor in the College of Commerce
and Business Administration at the University of Il-
jinois.

The four characteristics to form the basis of judg-
ment were moral character and influence upon others,
social character and leadership, intellectual and schol-
astic ability and unselfish and public-spirited campus
citizenship. Only third and fourth year students were
eligible for consideration. Every student was asked
to indicate his first, second, third and fourth choices.

Thus the campus citizenship poll was inaugurated
by Paul Converse, through President Henry Louis
Smith. ‘The interest of the student body was im-
mediately aroused and a heavy vote was cast. The
award ($50.00 in cash or its equivalent) was made
during Commencement service on June 7th. A tie was
announced by the committee, after a consideration of
the student vote and faculty recommendations. The
prize was divided evenly and awarded to Maynard
Holt, of Memphis, Tenn., and Kenneth Durham, of
Chattanooga, Tenn.

Mr. Converse plans to have this award made an-
nually. ‘The purposes and possibilities are best de-
fined by his own statement:

“The success of such a contest is in the interest
aroused and the attention focused on the development
of those traits that go to make an ideal student. In a
way it seems foolish to give a prize to an individual
for possessing certain traits and living in a certain
way. Yet if attention is directed to the development
of the desirable traits and habits, it should serve a
Each student can then compare
himself with the man selected as coming closest to the
ideal and by such comparison improve those traits of
character in which he is weak. I can readily imagine
that, in case the man selected is not a senior, that he
would be under rather close scrutiny during the rest
of his college career—that is if the plan is successful.

valuable purpose.

“Scholarship is highly desirable and should be en-
couraged yet success in business and the professions
depends not only on mental ability but upon sound
morals and such character traits as initiative, aggres-
Siveness, perseverance, industry, sincerity, tact, etc. It
Was my hope that the offering of such a prize would
center interest on such things and help students to
develop into well rounded men with high scholarship,
high character, and desirable traits of personatity.”

 

 

Paut D. Converse, °15'

 

 

The Converse Campus Citizenship prize will become
one of the highest honors to be received at Washing-
ton and Lee. From the votes cast, President Smith
plans to compile and publish a campus citizenship
honor roll each year. Such an honor will equal the
scholarship honor roll in importance and distinction.

Paul Converse graduated from W. and L, in 1915.
He taught at the University of Pittsburg two years,
and was with Federal ‘Trade Commission from 17 to
19. He then returned to the University of Pittsburg
as head of their department of Commerce. In 1924 he
took charge of the courses in Marketing, and Credits
and Collections at the University of Illinois. His
principal book is “Marketing Methods and Policies.”
(1921, revised edition 1924.) He is also co-author
of numerous trade commission reports.

The annual prize award will be an inspiration to
Washington and Lee students. It should be an ex-
ample for W. and L. alumni.

Mayor A. L. Dabney, 92, together with his wife,
died on August 23rd from injuries received when they
fought their way through a blaze at the Dabney home
in a futile effort to save the life of their adopted
daughter, Sarah Lee, aged seven, who was trapped by
the flames in her sleeping apartment. Awakened by
the cries of the child, they made their way through
the fire to the bed in which the little girl had been
sleeping, but before they could rescue her she had
been fatally burned. The couple died shortly after
in a hospital.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Changes in Faculty Personnel

The present session brings nine new professors to
posts at Washington and Lee. Four former profes-
sors, on leave of absence last year, have returned. Two
who filled vacancies last year, have received regular
appointments.

Fitzgerald Flournoy, B. A. ’21, M. A. ’22, is the
only W. and L. alumnus added to the faculty this
year. He becomes Associate professor of English. As
a student he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, Editor of
the “Mink,” winner of the State Oratorical contest
and singularly prominent in campus activity. After
graduation in ’22, “Fitz” received a Rhodes scholar-
ship and spent two years at Oxford, England. Re-
turning to this country in ’24, he taught at Leland
Stanford University in California. His present ap-
pointment. will be gratifying to his many friends.

Other appointments in the Department of English
are Dr. Malcolm L. Wilder, Instructor, for the past
two years Instructor in English at Cornell, and Law-
rence I}, Watkin (A. B. Syracuse, M. A. Harvard)
Associate Professor, formerly Instructor at Syracuse
University.

In the School of Commerce, William E. Dunkman,
graduate of the University of Cincinnati, becomes In-
structor in Accounting and L. W. Adams, graduate
of the University of North Carolina, becomes Instruc-
tor in Economics.

Robert F. Carroll, (M. A., U. Va.) of Winfall, Vir-

  
  
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
   
  
  
 

ginia has been named Instructor in Biology; Robe:
A. McDorman (B. A. Brandon, M. A. Chi 7
Chicago, Instructor of Physics and J. D. Burfoot, — ?
(B. A., M.A. U.of Va.), Assistant Professor «
Geology. a

The School of Journalism has been enlarged by th
addition of Howard M. Thompson as Assistant P
fessor. A graduate of Beloit College, Wis., he come.
to W. & L. after three years practical newspaper x
perience. by

The position held in the Law school last yeaa
Prof. R. T. Johnson, resigned, has been filled :
Charles P. Light, (B. A., V. M. I., B. L. Harva 2
He becomes Assistant Professor. 3

Familiar names reappearing on the faculty roster are
Dr. F. L. Riley, head of the Department of Histo Ys
at the University of California last year; Dr. E. F.
Shannon, head of the English department on a study
tour of Europe last year by leave of absence; Prof,
Lewis Tyree, ’15, of the Law School, who spent a yeat
in teaching and writing at the New Jersey Law School |
and Miss Blanche McCrum, Librarian. ‘

A. E. Mathis, succeeds E. E. Brett, resigned, as Ind x
structor in Physical Education. Miss Helen A. Re =
well, acting Librarian last year in the absence of Miss’
McCrum, has been appointed special cataloguer in 1e
Library. A

 

 

Fifteen of Faculty Names in Who’s Who

Fifteen members of the Washington and Lee
faculty are included in the 1926-27 issue of “Who's
Who in America”. This is an increase of one over
the number receiving this honor in the 1924-25 issue.
All except one of the Washington and Lee professors
whose names were contained in the earlier issue are
mentioned again this time; the exception is Dr. J. R.
Howerton, former professor of philosophy, deceased.
The two teachers who are now included for the first
time are Dr. William M. Brown, professor of educa-
tion and physiological examiner of students, and Dr.
Albert Levitt, professor of law.

The other faculty members whose names are in-
cluded in “Who’s Who” are Dr. Henry Louis Smith,
Dr. Henry D. Campbell, Dr. D. B. Easter, Dr. G. D.
Hancock, Dr. J. L. Howe, Dr. W. L. Stevens, Dr.
T. J. Farrar, Dr. L. W. Smith, Dr. R. G. Campbell,
Dr. F. L. Riley, Dr. E. F. Shannon, Dr. R. H. Tucker
and Dr. W. T. Lyle.

The ages of Washington and Lee’s representatives
vary from thirty-two to seventy-nine, Dr. Brown be-
ing the youngest and Dr. Stevens being the oldest.

  
   
  
  
 
 
    
   
 
 
  
   
  
 
  

Dr. H. L. Smith, president of Washington & Lee, —
is the oldest of the men still actively connected with
the University; he is now in his sixty-eighth year.

Other Lexington citizens whose names appear in -
the 1926-27 issue of “Who’s Who” are Mr. William
A. Anderson, lawyer and trustee of Washington and —
Lee since 1885; Dr. Martin P. Burks, Judge and former —
dean of the Law faculty here; General William
H. Cocke, superintendent of V. M. I. since October 1,
1924; General Edward W. Nichols, a saperiai
dent of V. M. I.; and Honorable Harry St. George
Tucker, United States Congressman and ex-dean of —
Law, Schools at Washington and Lee and George —
Washington University. | “i

 

Edmund B. Field, ‘71, for many years a banker —
and real estate operator in Kansas City, died at his —
home on August 31st, following an attack of Influ- —
enza. He attended Washington and Lee during “aan
presidency of Robert E. Lee and was one of the sul 3
ents chosen to guard the body of General Lee as its
lay in state. x

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

Faculty Introductions, No. V

Dr. D. B. Easter,
Assistant Dean and Professor of Romance Language.

A versatile, suave, friendly man is Dr. De la Warr
Benjamin Faster, full of force and vigor, with an easy
manner and a twinkling eye.

He was born in Baltimore, Maryland, and educated
by his mother until his entrance at Randolph Macon
College in October, 1883. He graduated with the M.
A. degree in 1891, holding the triple instructor-ship in
Greek, French and English from 1886 to 1893. Ab-
sent from his Alma Mater for two years as adjunct
professor at Wofford College, he was recalled as ad-
junct professor of Greek and German, which post he
held until 1900 when he resigned to study at Johns
Hopkins University. There he received his Doctor’s
degree in 1905. During the five succeeding years he
held the chair of Modern Languages at Randolph
Macon College, then came to Washington and Lee to
fill the chair of Romance Languages.

Students are not agreed upon how many languages
Dr. Easter speaks. He first taught Greek, German
and Latin. He now teaches French, Spanish and Ital-
ian. One would not hesitate to try him in Russian or
Nonweigian. But his versatility is not in the field of
language alone. He is an administrator who has con-
tributed much to the success of the Omicron Delta
Kappa and Pi Beta Kappa organizations, and as as-
sistant Dean of the University ably fills a position of
authority and responsibility.

Dr. Easter is a member of the Kappa Sigma frater-
nity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Sigma Upsilon, Phi Beta
Kappa, Pi Delta Epsilon, Society of the Cincinnati
State of Virginia, and of the Modern Language As-
sociation of America. He is the author of the
“Magic Elements in the Romans d’aventure and Ro-
mans Bretons”, and also of “French Composition.”

He married Sarah Bayne Ayers Sheppard of Balti-
more, Maryland, on December 26, 1906.

In writing of Dr. Easter a friend once said:

“He is a great teacher in four essential respects: He
possesses a deep and comprehensive knowledge of his
subject. To him teaching is no wearying task, but is
a source of genuine pleasure. He is profoundly in-
terested in young men; he studies the needs of his
students, knows their peculiarities, and is deeply con-
cerned for the advancement and development of each
individual. And with it all, he possesses in a most
marked degree the power of stimulating men and
creating in them a real enthusiasm for study.

f Dr. Easter is never satisfied with'a superficial
view or knowledge of any subject he may be in-
terested in; he delves to the bottom of things and in-
spires in his students the same attitude of mind. Ac-

 

 

Dr. D. B. EASTER
“Versatile, Suave, Friendly”

 

 

cordingly, young men who sit under his instruction
acquire more than a mere knowledge of the subject
in hand; they come forth students in the real sense of
the word.”

A student once said: “Dr. Easter is the only pro-
fessor who ever flunked me and made me like it.”

Clear and logical and accurate in his thinking, Dr.
Easter has the power of presenting truth in a most
interesting and appealing manner.

Laird Y. Thompson, ’24, was the winner recently
in the annual handicap tournament of the Lexington
Golf Club. Raymond T. Johnson, ex-professor at
W. & L., was runner up. M. W. Paxton, ’20, won
the defeated section of the flight with Mrs. J. W.
Zimmerman as runner. ‘Twenty-eight players partici-
pated and played as one flight.

Dr. Thomas J. Farrar went as delegate to represent
the Lexington Rotary club at the meeting of Rotary
International in Denver, Col., in June.

16 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Personal Recollections of General Lee 3

Miss ANNIE WHITE

(From an address delivered before the S. I. P. A.
Convention )

“I feel very much honored to be invited to take part
in this delightful evening. At first I was puzzled to
understand why this honor should have been bestowed
upon me, but the sad truth soon came home to me—
there are very few persons here old enough to have any
personal recollections of General Lee.

“I was quite a little girl when Gen. Lee came to
Lexington. My earliest recollection of him was’ see-
ing him riding up Main Street on Traveller. That
was a picture never to be forgotten. Traveller was
a magnificent horse, iron gray with beautiful mane
and tail. With his head held high he stepped along
as though he were fully conscious that it was no ordi-
nary man he was carrying, but Robert E. Lee, the
greatest man this world has ever produced. Gen. Lee
on Traveller was a picture worth seeing and remem-
bering.

“It wasn’t long until it became known that Gen.
Lee loved children, and this fact did away with any
restraint they might have felt in the presence of a
great man. What a pleasure it was to take this flower
or that dainty bit to Gen. Lee. I remember on several
occasions going in the early morning to carry him a
basket of grapes. After giving the basket to the serv-
ant who answered the door I turned to descend the
steps with a little feeling of disappointment that I had
not seen Gen. Lee. Before I reached the bottom step
Gen. Lee was at the door calling me back to thank me
himself.

“One afternoon I had strayed off with some older
children to a lot bordering the road near Wood’s
Creek. In the lot was a number of pokeberry bushes
filled with ripe berries. Soon we were busy making
pictures on the fence with the pokeberry juice. So
interested were we that we had not noticed that Gen.
Lee was coming. He stopped and ask what we were
doing; then turning to me he said, ‘You are quite far
from home—don’t you want to get up and let Travel-
ler carry you home?’ I was so engrossed with the
pokeberries that I would not leave. Think of declin-
ing a ride on Traveller behind Gen. Lee!

“Once a little girl living several miles in the country
sent Gen. Lee a bunch of flowers. A few days later
Gen. Lee mounted Traveller and went to this country
home to thank the little girl for her gift. In one of his
long rides one afternoon Gen. Lee passed an humble
home by the road-side—a small log cabin before which
a number of very dirty little children were playing.
They did not see Gen. Lee until he was right upon
them, and with one look they scampered off like
scared rabbits. An hour or so later Gen. Lee was re-

4

turning and when he reached the cabin there stoc
the same children but with clean faces and ¢e.
aprons. Almost with one voice ts shouted,
know you—you are Gen. Lee, we’ve got your pi
ture.’ ia

“T recall one day when I was playing on the «
lege walk. In a little while Gen. Lee came out of t
Chapel. He called me to him and while we were t¢
ing several young students passed by. ‘Wouldn’t ye
like to have one of those nice little boys for a s e
heart?’ said Gen. Lee. I replied, ‘I'd rather ha
your picture, General Lee.’ Taking my hand he ]
me to his office, and I was given a picture with
name on one side and my name on the other. Taki
me in his lap he kissed me and then said, ‘Now, de;
you may go.’ Boys, isn’t it worth being old to ha
such a memory as that? a

“While I was librarian at Washington and |
had rather an interesting experience. One day th
came into my office a man of about thirty years,
should say. His introduction of himself was—TT
a Yankee from Connecticut, born and reared the
but my admiration of General Lee is so great that
have come to see his tomb. I have just lived: for th
day.’ I offered to take him to the Chapel and whi
[ have taken a great number of people to Gen. Le
tomb, I have never taken anyone who stood with m 1
real reverence by that wonderful figure than did th
Yankee from Connecticut. When we came out of tl
Chapel he stood for a while on the walk looking abor
him. Finally he said, ‘Miss White, when a Was in
ton and Lee student realizes that he is treading tl
same paths that General Lee trod, putting his fee
into the very foot prints of this great man, I Jon
see how he could ever do an ignoble act.’

“Dean Stanley said, ‘The greatest heritage that ¢
ever come to a young man is the inspiration of a g
life.’ Certainly the college students of Washingto:
and Lee could have no greater heritage than the in-
spiration from the life of our immortal Lee.”

  
 
   
    
 
    
  
    
   
  
  
  
 
    
 
    
     
  
 

_

To
be
*o@ 4

 

wg
‘Copies of the Washington and Lee Alumni Direc
ory and Service Record are available at $4.50 f

volume, prepaid. Send check or money order to t
Alumni Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

 

Bishop Leonard, ’85, who is president of our Board
of Trustees has been Bishop of Ohio since 1887
Whenever he appears in the chancel of the colleg
church, he always wears the hood representing the b
D. received from Washington and Lee in 1885,
first honorary degree. ‘The fact that he is Bishop is s
not noted in the Alumni Register recently printed.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

17

Sketch of the 92 Ball Team, Champions of the South

During the past thirty-five years, the Big Blue Team
has won many a championship in every branch of ath-
letics and each year has furnished a team in at least
one sport which stood at or near the top in Virginia, or
‘n fact, in the East and South, but when has the feat of
the famous ball team of ’92, which went through the
entire season without a defeat and ultimately won the
Southern Championship, been duplicated? Perhaps it
has been done, but if so, the writer doesn’t recall it.

This famous team, selected from a student body of
not more than two hundred men, brought honor and
glory to Washington and Lee and was the pride of the
Old Dominion, for it not only defeated such teams as
Virginia, North Carolina and Vanderbilt but
Lehigh and possibly Penn State or Vermont, which in
those days were as good as the best.

In the early nineties, athletics did not occupy the
prominent part in college activities it does today, and
thé smaller colleges, with only a very few to draw from

also

 

and having practically no funds for athletics and often
no playing field, had tough sleding indeed.

Stadiums, as far as Southern Colleges were con-
cerned, were unheard of and Washington and Lee’s
diamond at that time was on one of the “Boom fields’,
near the old brick yard, just west of the site of Castle
Hill Hotel. This field, by the way, was levelled up by
the students themselves and the diamond “skinned” by
the team and enthusiastic rooters.

Football was played on various hill tops a half mile
or so west of the present Wilson field.

In those days the University of Virginia teams,
generally speaking, were in a class to themselves in
Virginia and such teams as University of North Caro-
lina and Vanderbilt nines were the “class” of the South.
Therefore, very naturally, great was the surprise and
excitement when W. & L. “bobbed up” with a real
team, making a strong bid for the championship.

In early games of the 92 season, V. M. I. and other

 

 

 

 

Pratt, Ist p., KAMPTAR, BECKIMAN, P.,
CLAYTON, I.

R. T. MourNine, c.,

 

 

®

SMITH, c. f.,

 

GRONER, Mgr.

DAvIs, P., CARMICHAEL, 3rd
Goong, 2nd

MAXWELL, SS. PHILLIPS, p.

18 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

nearby teams were disposed of with ease with “Harry”
Pratt pitching his famous elusive drop, which no one
could hit consistently and on several occasions this
famous W. & L. twirler sent as many as eighteen men
back to the bench by the strike out route. Then came
the boys from Fishburn Military Academy to furnish
one of the surprises of the season by holding our team
to a very close game until the final innings, but with the
same old “never-say-die” spirit that exists today, the
Blue and White worriors came from behind and finally
won by the score of six to four. In this game “Harry”
Pratt pitched his usual strong and steady game, but
was opposed by a slow ball artist, whom our heavy
artillery could not hit consistently.

After defeating Vanderbilt by the score of eleven to
nothing, the Southerri Championship finally hinged on
the North Carolina and Virginia games, which were
played on successive days at Lynchburg.

On Friday, with Pratt pitching a beautiful game,
Carolina was easily disposed of by the score of nine to
three. Then with interest aroused to the highest pitch
through the entire State, the great Virginia game was
staged on Saturday before a record breaking crowd.

Beckleman, the giant right-handed ace, represented
W. & L. on the mound and “Roxy” Davis was on the
receiving end. A special train was run from Lexing-
ton to the game and several hundred citizens made the
trip, among them the writer, then a youngster of nine
years but an ardent fan and worshipper of his brother
who was holding down the hot corner for W. and L.

“It is recalled that either Murray McGuire or
Lapoppe pitched for Virginia. Lynchburg was turned
over to the supporters of the two teams and was about
evenly divided in sentiment.

“The game was beautifully played and hotly con-
tested throughout. There is a difference of opinion as
to just how the score stood in the latter innings, but the
writer seems to recall that at the end of the eighth,
Washington and Lee was leading by the score of two
to one and that in their half of the ninth inning, Vir-
ginia made one with two outs, after which the third out
was made by Maxwell, who was playing short stop, by
throwing a Virginia man out by a large margin at the
plate. This play was not considered at all close or
questionable by the Washington and Lee cohorts, but
Virginia seemed to think otherwise and left the field,
leaving Washington and Lee’s half of the ninth un-
played. Seemingly they feared defeat and preferred
the games being forfeited at nine to nothing rather
than to give us our chance to untie the score.

“Quoting Mr. Pratt in his recent letter, ‘It was not
a close decision at all at the plate. The ball was per-
fectly fielded by Maxwell at short and beat the runner
by yards. I remember the play well, as I was playing
first base at the time.’

“Thus the great game ended and although marred by

    
   
 

Virginia’s lack of sportsmanship, went down in history
as a great victory for W. & L. and crowned the Wash-
ington and Lee team as being one of the best ever pro-
duced in Southern collegiate circles. 4
“The lineup was as follows:

Beckleman—P.

Pratt—P. and F. B.
Davis—C.

Goode—2nd B.
Maxwell—sS. S.
Carmichael—3rd B.
Anspach—R. F.
Smith—Captain and C. F.
Mourning—L,. F.
Groner— Manager
Kemper—Asst. Mer. |

Substitutes: Coles and Bowie. | q 4

“Anspach, Mourning and Carmichael were also |
football men, a

“Of this team, ‘Harry’ Pratt is now the Rev,
Harry W. Pratt and is a well known Presbyterian —
Minister, now residing at Columbia, S. C.; James U. —
Goode is Judge of Civil Court at Norfolk; William H.
Mourning is a prominent citizen and successful business
man in Louisville; Mgr. D. L. Groner is now United
States District Judge at Norfolk, and I. H. Kemper is |
President of United States National Bank at Galveston,
Texas. Captain Smith’s address is not known to the | |
writer and we have been advised that Beckleman, Davis ;
and Maxwell are dead. Anspach and Carmichael have |
also entered eternity.

“In conclusion, certainly no greater team ever
represented W. & L. on the diamond nor has one been
produced that brought W. & L. more glory and fame _
than this one.

“The writer is indebted to Messrs. Pratt, Goodall _
Groner and Kemper for some of the data in this art- 4
icle. If any of our readers recall more of the details —
of this great season, we should indeed be glad to hear —
from them.”

a

“H. St. G. T. Carmichael, 99.”

 

The ALUMNI MaGazing has proven its far-reach~ '
ing appeal. Recently a communication was received —
from the Peruvian Ministry of Education, requesting —
further information in regard to an article published
in a recent issue relative to the method of administer-
ing mental tests at Washington and Lee. This in- —
quiry came from John K. Breedin, Director General —
of Education, Lima, Peru. |

 

Do you like this copy of the ALumNr MaGaziNE? —
Don’t miss the next. Subscription $2.50 per year— —
$4.00 for two years. *

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

An Attractive Campus Addition

 

 

THE NEW

PHI KAPPA

SIGMA HOUSE

 

 

 

(Inder the leadership of Dr. L. J. Desha, ’06, and
with the cooperation of their other alumni, the Phi
Kappa Sigma fraternity has completed their hand-
<ome new home on Jefferson Street, facing the campus
at the left of the Memorial Gateway. The house it-
self was occupied by the fraternity last year. During
the year the attractive entrances and approaches have
been completed. The finished view inspires every
other fraternity on the campus to go and do likewise.

The house is opposite the new Beta Theta Pi house.
Both are colonial in style and were designed by the

 

same architect, Mr. Stuart H. Edmunds of Winches-
ter, Virginia, to afford a harmonious view from the
campus. Mr. Horace Peaslee of Washington, Di.
designed the front entrance and landscape treatment
of the Phi Kappa Sigma house. Thus two units of
the long proposed fraternity row at Washington and
Lee have been completed. With the building of addi-
tional fraternity houses between Jefferson and Main
Streets, the entire section will become a beautiful
addition to the Washington and Lee campus.

 

 

Epaulets Worn by George Washington Coming to W. and L.

(Recent clipping from local newspaper, Everett,
Washington. )

“Epaulets actually worn by George Washington
while serving as a captain in Virginia have been on
display in the window of the Citizens Bank and Trust
company this week. ‘These famous insignia of mili-
tary rank were given to a Mr. Beers of Brookfield,
Conn., a friend, and by him handed down by . will
through various heirs until they came to the sister of
Mrs. Avis Rhodes Bowman who lives near Everett.”

“Mrs. Bowman is a direct descendent of Roger
Williams. Her title to these epaulets is substantiated
by records existing in wills. As soon as they are re-
moved from the bank window the valuable souvenirs
are to be sent to Washington and Lee University in
Virginia, their owner states. Contained in the origi-
nal paste-board box marked by the great general's
name traced in faded ink, the decorations are of ela-

borate pattern. Heavy silver fringe several inches
long hangs from metal bars. White silk covering the
pads on the under side is frayed with use and age. One

of the bars is noticeably dented.”

Claude Baxter Bush, °14, recently passed through
Lexington with some of his family and relatives. Lo-
cated at South Fork, Pennsylvania, he is supervisor
of the Pittsburg Division of the Pennsylvania Rail-
road.

Every alumnus should be a_ subscriber to the

ALUMNI MAGAZINE—$2.50 per year.

Walter E. Smith, ’20, has become a partner in the
Law firm of Daniel and Boggs, practicing in the Gra-
ham Building, Jacksonville, Florida.

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

DREAMS COMING TRUE!

Five years ago the present Wilson Athletic field
would have been pronounced an impossibility by the
most ardent alumnus. Today the presence of a steel
and concrete stadium, a 440 yard concrete curbed, tile
drained cinder track and a level tile drained field for
football and field sports is a conviction of reality.

During the past summer the most noticeable prog-
ress has been made. Over a mile of tile was placed
under the field. The 440 track was laid out; tile laid
in; concrete curb laid around; and crushed rock and
cinders laid on. Grass has been planted. In due
course of time and nature, the athletic field will be fin-
ished perfection.

It is estimated that the field has cost between sixty |
Practically none -

and seventy-five thousand dollars.
of this money has come from gifts. ‘The Athletic As-
sociation has “paid its way.” Their progress is a
story of ability, economy and cooperation. “Dick”’
Smith, °15, Graduate Manager of Athletics, has man-
aged. Coach Forrest Fletcher, Director of Athletics
and Physical Education, has directed. Prof. Hale

Houston, ’92, Engineer in Charge, has engineered, and

C. S. Glasgow, 711, Treasurer of the: Athletic Asso-
ciation has certainly “treasured.” In addition, through
progressive President Henry Louis Smith and effi-
cient Treasurer Paul M. Penick, the University has
cooperated in every particular.

An example of the spirit behind this work was
shown this summer. Bids were received from con-
tractors for draining the field and constructing the
running track. They were thought to be too high.
Prof. “Uncle Bud” Houston planned and _ superin-
tended the work, bought the materials and hired the
labor. ‘The final cost was exactly one half of the low-
est bid. This is but one of the many large savings
made possible by Prof. Houston.

Some day we will publish a chronicle of the things
that “Dick” Smith has done since he became Gradu-
ate Manager. The last issue of the ALUMNI MaGa-
ZINE contained a record of Fletcher’s progress.

The Athletic Department of the University is man-
aged by young aggressive and progressive men.
Their achievements have been great in things other
than the building of new field and stadium. ‘Theirs
is a lesson of ability, economy and cooperation.

 

D. C. (“Buck”) Buchanan, ’14, who has been en-
gaged in mission work in Wakayama City, Japan,
spent the summer in Winchester, Virginia, and en-
tered the Hartford Theological Seminary in Sep-
tember to take a year of post-graduate work.

 

W. T. Greenlee, ’20, is studying medicine at Detroit
College of Medicine. He is located at 3057 Garland,
care of Dr. Hang E. Lee.

“a
we
~

  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
   
  
   
     
    
   
  
   
    
  
   
 
    
 
   

ei
7

FAMOUS YACHTSMAN GETS A PHO >
OF GENERAL LEE ON TRAVELLER |

A long felt desire of Sir Thomas Lipton fon
photograph of General Robert E. Lee was at
gratified when he recently received a portrait of the
general on his famous horse, ‘T'raveller, taken at ex
ington just prior to his death. ‘The picture was pre
sented to him by Major LeRoy Hodges, ’10, managin
director of the Virginia State Chamber of Commerce
who heard of Sir Thomas’ desire when he visited him
in London this summer. a

“The picture of General Lee, I hardly need say, is
occupying a very prominent place in my collection,”
Sir Thomas Lipton wrote in acknowledging receipt of
the picture. “I can assure you that I value vey
highly the gift of the State Chamber of Commer 7
When the general’s daughter, Mary Custis Lee,
over here in England many years ago, I had the plea: s-
use of entertaining her on board my S. Y. ‘Erin’ at
Cowes, Isle of Wight.. When I raced in America a_
good many years ago, I had Minnie Hay Davis, Jeft
Davis’ daughter, sailing every day with me, also Joe
Wheeler and Colonel Walkerson.” 4

“T look upon myself more or less as a Southe ler, |
as it was in the south that I spent a number of m y
early years, where I received much kindness and hos-_
pitality. My first situation in America was in Dir -
widdie County. It is always a pleasure for me to hea: 2
about the places with which I was familiar in my
youth.” |

Sir Thomas has been issued a special invitatial to
visit America with the party of twenty British busi
ness men who are coming in the spring as guests of —
the Virginia Chamber of Commerce and the Com-—
monwealth of Virginia.

a

ay
a
a
a

SIXTY INCH FRESHMAN SAYS HE’LL
PRACTICE LAW a

Being sixty inches tall and weighing eighty-nine
pounds has won for Charles Elliott Thompson, of Mon- —
roe, Louisiana, the distinction of being the smallest —
freshman on the Washington and Lee University “¢
campus. “Peewee”, as he is already called, is sixteen j
years old. i

He is the son of Mr. and Mrs, C. C. ‘Thonipagiall
300 McKinley Avenue, Monroe, and was graduated
from the Ouachita Parish High School, where he had %
an average of ninety for his four years’ work. Be

Tennis, “Peewee” says, is his main hobby. While —
in high school he represented his institution in the “a
louisiana state meets. He is trying out for cheer —
leader at Washington and Lee. 3

“Peewee” is enrolled in the Academic school of the —
University where he will take an A. B. degree. After
this he will enter the law school. After graduation, —
he says, he will practice law. =

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Three Generations ! !

At the opening of College this fall three generations
of the Steves family from San Antonio, Texas, were
present. The youngest was Albert Steves, III, fresh-
man matriculating 1926 as a member of the class ot
39, ‘The “proud parent” was “Kid” Steves, ‘06, and
the jovial senior of the party was grandfather Albert
Steves, Sr., "78. In their own family they are “Pa”,
“Alberto”, and “Son”.

A manufacturer of an established product is proud
of the exclusive use of his product over a long period
hy a prominent consumer. A mother rejoices when
the children and grandchildren return home for a
“spell”. So the University rejoices in the continuance
of a family line on her rolls.

The Steves line began at Washington and Lee with
the entrance of Edward Steves, Jr. (deceased) in
1874. ‘Iwo brothers, Ernest and Albert, followed
him in 1875-76. ‘They returned to San Antonio and
entered the lumber business which their father had
founded. Edward Steves, Jr. died in 1908. Ernest
Steves is still actively engaged in business at San
Antonio. He has never married.

Mr. and Mrs. ‘Albert Steves, Sr., came through
Lexington on their wedding trip in 1883. They drove
through Goshen Pass, visited Natural Bridge, saw the
Lee Chapel, and returned to San Antonio. Mr.
Steves, Sr., settled down to a busy life. He became
president of the Steves Sash and Door Company ;
vice-president of the Citizens National Bank and of
the ‘Texas Title Guaranty Company; president of the
Texas-Mexican Mining Company, and of the Jimulco
He rendered public service as
City Commissioner of Fire and Police, then Mayor ;
later president of the Chamber of Commerce. Albert
Steves, Jr., born September 21, 1884, was the first
son; Walter, born December 22, 1890, the second.

Mining Company.

Albert, Jr., landed at Lexington in 1901, donned a
freshman cap, pledged Kappa Alpha and became the
“Kid” Steves of campus fame. He graduated with
the class of ’06, returned to San Antonio and was
married to Miss Annie Tobin Bell. They came
through [Lexington on their wedding trip, drove
through Goshen Pass, visited Natural Bridge, saw the
Chapel. Back in San Antonio, Albert, Jr., became
vice-president and general manager of the Steves
Sash and Door Company. He was succeeded at W.
& Ll. by his brother Walter in 1911, who returned to
San Antonio in 1914 and entered the Steves Sash and
Door Company. Both served as First Lieutenants in
the World War.

ive sons were born to Mr. and Mrs. Albert Steves,
Jr. The oldest, Albert Steves III, graduated at the
Episcopal High School last year, entered the school
Ot his fathers this year, donned a_ freshman cap,

 

 

 

Apert STEVES, I

Areert Sreves, II
Apert Sreves, III

“The Line Continued”

 

 

pledged Kappa Alpha, became “Son” Steves, van-
guard of the third generation to enter W. & L.

During the opening days this year, “Pa” Steves
drove through Goshen Pass, visited the Bridge and
Chapel, entertained friends with bits of wisdom and
humorous anecdotes; “Kid” attended assemblies, wit-
nessed football scrimmage, shook hands and _ visited
with a multitude of friends; “Son” stood in line, at-
tended “meetings”, filled Fraternity “dates”, stood in
line again.

DR. POLLARD IN IMPORTANT POSITION

Dr. J. W. H. Pollard, Coach of various W. and L.
athletic teams from 1912 to 1917, and former head of
the Department of Physical Education, is now City
Health Commissioner of Evanston, Illinois. It is the
largest Department of Health in the state of Illinois,
outside the city of Chicago. Prior to this appoint-
ment he served for several years as head of the Health
Department of Quincy, II.

Dr. Pollard writes that he is coming in touch with
W. and L,. men again. He has communicated with Dr.
Herman P. Davidson, 13, of Chicago, and has seen
J. M. Cook, Jr., ‘17, who lives in Evanston.

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Prepare Now for January | 9th Meetings

The birthday of General Robert E. Lee is Alumni
Day all over the country. It is “Founders Day” on
the campus, the date of the annual meeting of the
Board of Trustees. In every city with seven or more
alumni it is the day for the annual meeting of the local
Alumni Association,

New Orleans, New York, San Antonio, Baltimore,
Memphis, Washington, D. C., Louisville and Roanoke
were the scenes of such annual gatherings of Wash-
ington and Lee alumni of January 19th last year. This
year the number of local associations holding their an-
nual meetings on Lee’s birthday should be doubled.

Whether in the form of dinner, luncheon or smoker,
these gatherings can always be interesting. If no
business organization exists, a president, preferably a
representative older alumnus, vice-presidents, one
from each adjacent town represented, and a secretary,
preferably an energetic younger alumnus, should be
elected and a publicity committee appointed. A special
committee should be appointed to make arrangements
for the next meeting of the organization. If it is de-
cided to hold regular monthly luncheons, each lun-
cheon should be in charge of a separate committee.

An interesting program can be arranged. Invite
some member of the Washington and Lee faculty or
administration to attend and talk on present condi-
tions at the University. Ask some prominent local
speaker to prepare an address on “General Robert E.
Lee.” Have a prominent older Alumnus reminisce
on his experiences at College, and a younger alumnus
talk on athletics at the University. Music and the
singing of the “W. and L,. Swing” should be inter-
spersed. ‘The delivery of the following as a standing
toast should close the meeting:

“Ye will not walk ignoble ways
Ye dare not seek unworthy aims,
Ye cannot, do a deed that shames
Those heroes of the holiest days!
Your oath a Roman oath must be,
Sworn on a faith that will not yield
Sworn on the doubly sacred shield
Of Washington and Lee.”

The year’s work of a local organization is manifold.
The following service program will partly outline the
work to be carried on by the officers and special com-
mittees :

Students: Recommend outstanding local high and
preparatory school students to President Smith.

Award of the local alumni association scholarship
annually ($80.00, deductible from first year’s tuition
fee) to a worthy college entrant of high character.

Notify R. A. Smith, °15, Graduate Manager of
Athletics, Lexington, about promising local athletics
planning to enter college.

Publicity: Notify local papers and the Atoat
MAGAZINE of the activities of the local association, —
See that news of Washington and Lee is carried in
local papers and communicate with Prof. R. B, El-4
lard, Director of Publicity, Lexington, in that regard

Notify the ALuMNt MaGazIne of outstandi
achievements of individual alumni, and send all prea
clippings regarding them. a

Notify the alumni office, Verbon E. Kemp, Secre-
tary, Lexington, of the changes of address of local
alumni.

See that every local member is a subscriber to thea
ALUMNI MAGAZINE (The only form of alumni dues —
assessed by the Alumni Association, Inc., $2.50 per —
year). 4

Financial: Urge every local member to pay up past —
due amounts /on Endowment pledges.

Influence men of means to invest in Washington _
and Lee. Bring the needs and possibilities of Wash- —
ington and Lee to the attention of local philanthrop- a
ists, and notify President Henry Louis Smith of your ©
action. a

Remember Washington and Lee in your will,
whether your bequest is large or small! |

Historical: Contribute letters or other memorobilia —
of George Washington or Robert E. Lee to the Uni- —
versity, or ask local citizens holding such relics to con- —
tribute them through Dr. William M. Brown, chair- —
man of Historical Committee, Lexington. a

Athletic: Arrange for a large attendance of Wash- —
ington and Lee supporters in a special section at any —
W. and L,. athletic contest staged in your city, and if
possible arrange some form of entertainment for vis-
itors before or after the game. 4

  
    

 

CHARACTER REFERENCES NEWEST
REQUIREMENT

Three hundred and fifty freshmen entering Wash- —
ington and Lee University at the opening of the 177th —
session were required during summer months to sub- —
mit names of four prominent persons as reference be- a
fore being admitted, President Henry Louis Smith —
said in discussing the admission of new students. %

A new plan of accepting students was inaugurated _
this year by the faculty, and the references is one of —
the outstanding points in application blanks. An ex- —
amination in psychology is also required and is either
taken by the prospective student during the summer
or upon arrival at Lexington.

 

R. D. Hummel, ’20, is assistant Manager of the —
Chemical Department of the Parke Davis and Com- —
pany, Detroit, Mich.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

Another Africa Pioneer

[In response to Memorial tribute to William McC.
Morrison last Commencement, Dr. Thomas Jesse
Jones, 92, of New York City wrote: “Thank you
very much for the W. M. Morrison Memorial number
of the ALUMNI Macazine. I want to express my very
deep appreciation of the University in recognition of
Dr. Morrison’s great service to humanity. In 1920 |
visited the Congo as chairman of an Educational Com-
mission on Africa. During this visit I had an oppor-
tunity to ascertain the great value of the service rend-
ered by Dr. Morrison.”

This spontaneous tribute from Dr. Jones brought to
our attention his own great work in Africa. The Edu-
cational Commission referred to above was sent to
Africa under the auspices of the great Phelps-Stokes
Fund, of which Dr. Jones is Director. The result of
the committee’s investigation was reported in a volume
“Education in Africa,” edited and compiled by the
chairman.

Of this report the British Under-Secretary of State
said in the House of Commons on July 25, 1923: “We
want to explore the experience of the world as to what
is the best and most helpful form and type of educa-
tion that we can give to the Africans, for the purpose
of giving light to New Africa. With that in view, we
have formed a permanent committee.... We were led
to this largely as the result of a most extraordinary in-
teresting report issued by Dr. Jesse Jones, who has
travelled not only through the British colonies, but
through French Africa, the Belgian Congo and the
Portugese colonies. He has made a most helpful con-
tribution to the subject of African education from the
point of view of the native.”

In a review of the events of 1922-23, His Excel-
lency Brigadier-General Sir Frederick Gordon Gug-
gisberg, K. C. M. G.; D. S. O., Governor and Com-
mander in Chief of the Gold Coast Colony said:

“The book which has just been published is entitled
“Education in Africa.” It is a book of the century, a
combination of sound idealism and practical common
sense. I must state my conviction that one of the most
important events that has occurred in the history of
the progress of the African people is the publication
of the Report of the African Education Commission
which recently visited this country under the auspices
of the Phelps-Stokes Fund. Honorable members who
discussed education with Dr. Jesse Jones, and the
other members of the Commission will remember the
deep impression made by their earnestness and wide
views.”

_ The success and importance of this first educa-
tional survey of East Africa caused Dr. Jones to be
sent on a second mission to the tropical continent—

 

Dr. THomas J. Jones, '92

 

a

this time to study conditions in West Africa. Upon
his return he was entertained at a dinner by the British
Government at Lancaster House, London, March 26,
1925. The Archbishop of Canterbury, members of
the British Cabinet and prominent British colonial
leaders, joined in tribute to Dr. Jones and his pioneer
work. Shortly afterward this report was published in
a second volume entitled “Education in West Africa.”

Copies of these two reports have been donated to
the Washington and Lee Library by Dr. Jones. In his
letter to us at the time, he stated, “Though I am a
former student of many years ago, | have a deep sense
of gratitude to the University for the inspiration
which I received during my attendance there. Unfortu-
nately, I have not been free to return to Lexington
since my student days. Please convey my greetings to
your associates.”

The record of this alumnus who has achieved such
distinction is one of study and service. Thomas Jesse
Jones was born in Wales. He came to America as a
boy and attended Washington and Lee at the advice of
Dr. W. J. Humphreys, and his cousin, T. H. Davis.
Later he received the degrees of B. D. from Union
Theological Seminary, M. A. and Ph. D. from Colum-
bia University and LL. D. from Marietta.

His first work was a headworker at the University
Settlement, New York City. He then became Direc-
tor of Research at Hampton Institute. Later special
agent in the U. S. Census Bureau, then a Specialist in
the U. S. Bureau of Education. With such a record
of achievement he was appointed Educational Direc-
tor of the Phelps-Stokes Fund, with offices at 101
Park Avenue, New York City.

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

NOTED ENGLISH BISHOP WILL VISIT
LEXINGTON

Washington and Lee is one of the four Southern
universities to be honored with a visit from the Rt.
Rev. Arthur F. W. Ingram, D. D. Lord Bishop of
London, who is now making an extended tour of
American universities as the guest of the Department
of Religious Education of the Episcopal Church.

Bishop Ingram will arrive in Lexington on the
morning of Monday, November Ist, and will spend
the day at V. M. I.

Tuesday he will be the guest of Washington and
Lee. While the program for the day is not yet com-
plete, it will include a University assembly at which
the Bishop will be the main speaker. During the af-
ternoon the Bishop hopes to converse privately with
as many students as possible.

Bishop. Ingram is said to have an appeal to young
men perhaps unequalled by that of any other great
churchman. His talks to Oxford and Cambridge
students have had widespread influence because of
their wisdom and substance and the informality with
which they are delivered. Despite the fact that the
Bishop is 68 years old, he always understands the
viewpoint of young men and makes them feel at ease
in his informal conversations with them.

Before coming to Lexington, Bishop Ingram will
have visited Ames Agricultural College, Iowa; Uni-
versity of Illinois; Northwestern University; Uni-
versity of Wisconsin; University of Michigan; Bow-
doin; Dartmouth; Wellesly; Brown; Harvard; Yale;
Trinity College; University of Pennsylvania; Bryn
Mawr; and the University of Virginia.

The Bishop will visit the University of the South
at Sewanee, Tenn., after leaving Washington and
Lee. From Sewanee he will go to California and
thence to the Orient.

WITH THE “Y”

The Robert E. Lee Freshman Club of the Y. M.
C. A. has been organized for the new year. This

Club was originated at the beginning of the past school

year. Its purpose is to draw together these new men
at the University who are interested in having a part
in the Christian work of the campus and to bring their
influence to bear in various phases of service in the
community. The organization last year has _ fur-
nished some of the best leaders on the present Y. M.
C. A. Cabinet. The program of the Club includes
supervision of the Boy’s Club which is composed of
35 small boys of the town; advertising for religious
meetings; study at meeting time of pertinent college
problems; religious meetings lead by helpful Se
and social gatherings.

The town of Lexington offers relatively few open-
ings for employment of students while there are con-

liminary training. Under the able tutilage of vac

    
    
 
   
  
  
    
    
  
   
    
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
  
  
   
 
 
  
    
   

stant calls from the students for part or full
work. The Y. M. C. A. is trying to secure as é
work in this line as possible. In this there has }
some success through advertising and other me
Many of the most desirable of students are jn
of this employment. From year to year the s ide
body may be greatly improved in quality by adm
sion of such men.
An attempt is being made to secure speakeai
every fraternity on the campus when the subje
“The Fraternity and Its New Men” , will be pres
by a speaker from the community wha shall be cho
by the fraternity. a
Thirty-five freshmen were taken to Natural Bri
by the Social Committee. The trip was made
trucks. This has become an annual affair. On §
day afternoons this committee is arranging for gro
of from eight to ten men to visit different homes
faculty and town’s people. In this way new men m
become better acquainted with each other and wi nt
older members of the community. Saturday n ri
socials are soon to be begun to help supply an oppo
tunity for students to meet the young people of t
town and to enjoy wholesome social contacts on
night which is otherwise apt to lead to less wort |
diversions. .
The Cabinet is composed of 18 men sclechell
their interest in Christian work and their ability
get the cooperation of others in the enterprise. Tt
the purpose of the Cabinet this year to form a fello
ship in the work of the year into which other m
may be drawn and out of which a spirit of helpft |
ness and good will may go. This Cabinet meets e
week for fellowship and planning of the work.
2
TRACK AND CROSS COUNTRY

With only one cross country monogram nat
Nance, back this year, harrier prospects cannot b
predicted. Over thirty recruits have reported for p :

 

Forrest Fletcher a satisfactory team may be evolve
from this new material. The following cross countt
meets have been scheduled. |

Deak 3 ie ics ipeeies cs ae Durham, (pendifil
Va aie Gals. s. etene cued Blacksburg, October 2
N.S Gi i uch es be Lexington, October J
Vig ss Ss. Bees Charlottesville, November ¢
So. Conference Meet ...... Athens, Ga., (pending

The schedule for spring track meets has been an
nounced as follows: 2
Duley esi Ph sa ete Durham, Apr.
U. OF a eee ees Chapel Hill, Apia ‘
William Qi Drary ics Bicsincaen Lexington, Apr.
U. of Rigiinol S675). ces Lexington, Apr. 2¢
V. Peiesy esis) ERE Lexington, May
U. off me: Be ee ee ae Lexington, May

S 4

 

‘

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

{tO
sn

Harrison B. Smith, 84

In the fall of 1882, Harrison B. Smith joined his
two brothers, Benjamin Harrison and Alex Quar-
rier, then undergraduates at Washington and Lee
University. During his two years at the University
he claims the distinction of owning and riding the
frst bicycle in Lexington; played on the baseball
team, and assisted as organist. Two years later he
entered the Junior class at Princeton where he re-
ceived his A.B. in 1886.

Following his father’s death, Mr. Smith sent two
younger brothers, Isaac Noyes, Jr., and Christopher
™ to W and L.

While attending the summer law school at the
University of Virginia, he contracted typhoid fever
which prevented the continuation of his attendance
there. However, he started right in the practice of
law and is at present a member of the firm of Price,
Smith & Spilman, Charleston, West Virginia.

In late years, Mr. Smith has devoted most of his
time to corporations, particularly financial. He or-
ganized and is president of the Charleston ‘Trust
Company, George Washington Life Insurance Com-
pany and West Virginia Coal Land Company. He
was one of the founders of the Kanawha Banking &
Trust Company, of which his brother, Isaac Noyes,
is president. He also organized and has been active
in the affairs of the Kanawha Company, Charleston
Company, Kanawha City Company and other local
enterprises.

He is a lover of music and of literature, and takes
great interest in sports.

He is a member of numerous clubs: Edgewood
Country, Kanawha Country, Princeton Club of New
York and University Club of New York; also,
Princeton Golf Club, and Merion Cricket Club of
Philadelphia.

In this brief form we find the record of one of

 

 

 

 

 

 

—— —

Harrison B. Smiru, *84

 

 

the University’s most prominent and able alumni.
Located in Charleston, West Va., he is in a hot-bed
of Washington and Lee enthusiasm. The annual W.
and L.-West Va. football game draws a larger at-
tendance than any other contest staged in the West
Virginia capital. It is the influence of alumni like
Harrison B. Smith that has made Washington and
Lee so popular and prominent in the minds and
hearts of the general public.

 

MR. TUCKER OPENS CAMPAIGN FOR
CONGRESS

Honorable Harry St. George Tucker, 82, recently
opened his campaign at Stuart’s Draft and at Green-
ville. He was given the Democratic congressional
nomination without opposition, and the Republicans
have no candidate, but Mr. Tucker will seek to keep
his party in a state of preparedness, and at the same
time to arouse the voters to a realization of the crying
heed to get “back to the Constitution” which he shows
very clearly is to be getting back to simon pure Dem-

 

“cracy, and to be necessary if the Union is to be pre-
‘etved and a republican form of government con-
tinued

 

Probably in all his long public career Mr. Tucker
has never rendered more valuable service to his party
and his country than during the past few years in
fighting federal invasion of the reserved rights of the
states; the multiplying of sumptuary legislation; and
the appropriation of public funds to purposes not con-
templated by the Founders, when they imposed limi-
tations on the power of Congress to levy taxes and
appropriate public moneys.

William A. Glasgow, Jr., ’86, represented the Uni-
versity at the inauguration of Dr. Charles Ezra
Beury, as President.of Temple University, of Phila-
delphia, in the spring.

26 THE AILUMNI MAGAZINE

W. D. Payne, "90

William Dallas Payne, the subject of this sketch,
is a native of Giles County, Virginia, an alumnus of
the Normal Department of the University of Nash-
ville, of Virginia Polytechnic Institute and of Wash-
ington & Lee University.

He located in Charleston, West Virginia in 1891
and became a junior member of the law firm of Payne
& Payne, which firm six years before the death of
James M. Payne, changed its business name to Payne,
Minor & Bouchelle, whose membership now consists
of two alumni of the University of Virginia, viz:
Berkeley Minor, Jr. and John V. Ray, and three
alumni of Washington & Lee University, viz: W. D.
Payne, J. F. Bouchelle and Andrew A. Payne.

Mr. Payne is a son of E. F. Payne and Hattie Early,
who were married shortly after the close of the Civil
War, and the then groom went to Gallipolis, Ohio, to
procure a wedding dress for his prospective bride;
thirty four years thereafter the son of that marriage
procured his wife, Margaret Allemong from Galli-
polis, and of that marriage there are two children,
Andrew A. Payne and Margaret (Peggy).

Andrew A. Payne graduated in Law at W. and L.
last year and has just entered his father’s firm, test-
ing the teachings of “Boss” Moreland, “Lew” Tyree
and “Skinny” Williams. Mr. Payne was one of the
six “alumni” fathers of graduates in the class of ’26.

 

W. D. Paynes, ’90

 

 

HOODOO TRADITION

The Pathfinder, national weekly newspaper pub-
lished in Washington, recently carried in its columns
the following story, which will be of interest:

“At one time biology was one of the ‘stiffest’
courses at Washington and Lee University. Fresh-
men who dreaded the course were led by upper class-
men to the skeleton of ‘Traveller,’ the famous gray
charger that bore General Robert E. Lee through the
Civil War, in the university museum. ‘There they
were told that if they wrote their names on ‘that sa-
cred relic of Southern biology’ they would never flunk
or fail in that subject. Hundreds of the freshmen be-
lieved it. As a result the skeleton of the famous
charger became covered with inked and _ penciled
names of five generations of Washington and Lee
students. The white bones became black. So the au-
thorities recently ordered the skeleton given a thor-
ough bath and mounted high up on a_ balcony and
locked against those who might seek to carry on the
quaint old custom at the university.”

W. G. Wiglesworth, ’92, is in business in Cynth-
lana, Kentucky.

MONITOR PRAISES WASHINGTON
AND LEE

A full column account of the history and traditions z

of Washington and Lee University was carried by

the Christian Science Monitor in its issue of Sept. 3rd. 4
The associations of Washington and of Lee with ~

the school, first as an academy and later as a small col

lege, are carefully described. Washington’s gift of
canal shares to the school and General Lee’s letter im
acceptance of the presidency of the college are fea-
tured in the newspaper’s account. 4

A short description of the School of Commerce and —
Business Administration and of the School of Jourm- ~
alism is given. ‘The Commerce school is described aS
being “the first probably in any University,” and the ~
Journalism school is also given credit for being the ~
first in the United States. |

Washington and Lee’s comparatively modest €0> ~
dowment is mentioned, but the Monitor says that “its
ideals are none the lower for that.”

 

C. S. Funkhouser, ’92, is affiliated with the Com- 7
tract Department of The Baltimore Sun, Baltimore, ~
Md. 3

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

Mississippi Alumnus Appointed to Important Post in London

The Press dispatch from Washington, announcing
the appointment of “Jim” Somerville, Jr., 12, as As-
sistant U. S. Trade Commissioner, will be very in-
teresting to his former classmates. Under date of
July 17th, the dispatch published in the New Orleans
Times- icayune was as follows:

“The appointment of James Somerville, Jr., of
Vaiden, Mississippi, as assistant trade commissioner,
with assignment at London, was announced today
by Dr. Julius Klein, director of the Bureau of For-
eign and Domestic Commerce. Mr. Somerville will
proceed to his foreign post immediately.

“Assistant ‘Trade Commissioner Somerville was
born in Mississippi, and obtained his scholastic edu-
cation at Washington and Lee University and at
Johns Hopkins.

“During his two years in Russia with the Ameri-
can Relief Administration he organized and super-
vised the relief operation in Simbirsk, one of the
stricken Volga districts. Altogether, nearly $4,000,000
worth of food and medicines were distributed through
the local A. R. A. organizations set up by Mr. Som-
erville consisting of several hundred employed and
some 12,000 voluntary workers.

“While in educational work in this country, just
after leaving college, Mr. Somerville was for a time
a member of the faculty of Marion Institute, Marion,
Ala., and for two years headmaster of Chamberlain-
Hunt Academy, Port Gibson, Miss.

“He entered the Department of Commerce in the
fall of last year, and after serving for a time in the
European division, where he specialized in trade and
economic trends in Europe, he was transferred to
the foodstuffs division in final preparation for the
work he is about to take up in Great Britain. The

 

 

“Jim” SoMERVILLE, 712

“Assistant Trade Commissioner”

 

 

foodstuffs trade between the United States and Great
Britain and the countries of continental Europe fig-
ures largely in the annual international business of
this country, amounting during the past year to
more than $600,000,000 out of a total food export
to all countries of about $900,000,000.

“Nearly half of this European trade is with Great
Britain alone, which is by far our most important
foodstuffs market, taking more than double the
amount of our next best market, Germany. It is es-
sential that the market conditions in those countries
which purchase American food products be carefully
analyzed and reported. The duty of investigating
such conditions will constitute an important part of
Trade Commissioner Somerville’s work abroad.

 

_

JOHNNY SORRELLS, ’17, BECOMES
MANAGING EDITOR .

Coming to Cleveland, Ohio, two years ago a com-
plete stranger, Jonny Sorrells made his newspaper
ability apparent quickly and a short time thereafter
Was made news editor of The Cleveland Press, the
largest Scripps-Howard newspaper, and one of the
largest evening dailies in the country. Now he is man-
aging editor.

Mr. Sorrells began his newspaper career at Pine
Bluff, Arkansas, starting as a cub reporter on the Grap-
hic. He acted as reporter, editorial writer, advertis-
ing business manager and editor of the Graphic. He
also worked in Fort Worth, Texas. Prior to his ad-
vent into Cleveland, Mr. Sorrells had been employed
as Night Editor on the Daily Oklahoman, of Okla-

homa City, and his experience with this and other
papers, added to his natural adeptness along the lines
of editorship, has brought into his hands his present
position with the Cleveland Press.

Brought up in Pine Bluff, Arkansas, he attended
public school there and in 1914 entered Washington
and Lee where for three years he was a student. Dur-
ing the War he was an instructor in the Officers’
Training Camp, where he ranked as First Lieutenant.

Johnny married Miss Ruth Arnette, and has two
children. John Harvey Sorrells, Jr., will enter Wash-
ington and Lee in 1944,

Rev. James Lindsay Patton, ’21, was recently
married to Miss Ruth Elizabeth Rolland of Alamo-
gordo, New Mexico. They reside at Mesa, Arizona.

28 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Constitution of Alumni, Inc.

At the annual meeting of the Alumni, Incorporated,
June 6th, the committee on the Constitution, Dr. Wil-
liam M. Brown, 714, Chairman, reported that a new
constitution had been drawn up by his committee. In
order that every alumnus might have the privilege of
expressing his opinion after a careful consideration of
the new constitution, the following resolution was
unanimously adopted by the members present. “A draft
of this constitution shall be published in the ALUMNI
MAGAZINE and distributed to every active member of
the corporation. Suggestions, amendments and criti-
cism from individual members may be directed to the
Alumni Secretary during the period of one calendar
month after the date of mailing, for consideration by
the committee. The constitution shall then go to the
Board of Trustee of the corporation for final adop-
tion.”

The articles adopted by the committee are as fol-
lows :

“CONSTITUTION.
“WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIvEeRSITyY ALUMNI As-
SOCIATION, INCORPORATED.

“ARTICLE I. NAME.

“The name of this corporation shall be “THE WasH-
INGTON AND LEE UNIvERsITy ALUMNI ASSOCIATION,
INCORPORATED,’

“ARTICLE Il. SEAL.

“The corporate seal shall consist of two concentric
circles between which shall be the words ‘WASHING-
TON AND LEE UNIVERSITY ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
INCORPORATED, VIRGINIA, 1910” and in the center
thereof the heads of Washington and Lee, and such
seal, as impressed on the margin hereof, is hereby
adopted as the corporate seal of this corporation.

“ArticLE IIlI. PurRpPosEs AND POWERS.

“The purposes for which the corporation is formed
and the business and objects to be carried on and per-
formed by it and the powers granted to it are those
stated in its Certificate of Incorporation.

“ARTICLE IV. MEMBERSHIP.

“The membership of the corporation shall consist of
two classes: (a) honorary, and (b) active.

“(a) Any person who has received an honorary de-
gree from Washington and Lee University or who is
or has been a member of the Faculty of the Univer-
sity, or any prominent citizen whose contribution to, or
interest in, the University is deemed of special signifi-
cance, is eligible to election to honorary membership
by the body of alumni present at any annual business
meeting.

“(b) All former students of Washington and Lee

athletic contests. They shall be likewise entitled to

   
  
 
   
 
 
   
   
 
 
    
   
   
    
    
    
   
  
   
   
  
  

University, who were in good standing as students,
upon leaving the University, to be considered ac
members of this corporation. Both honorary , ne
tive members shall have the privilege of discussing
affairs and business of the corporation at its an
and special meetings, but only active members gs
have the right to vote. 2

><

“ARTICLE V. DUEs.

“Fach active member of the corporation shall pay
to the treasury of the corporation $2.50 per ann
However, if the member is making annual paym
to the University Endowment Fund of $5.00 or r
or annual contributions of $5.00 or more to any o
projects carried on by the University, his annual «
of $2.50 shall be deducted from such annual payn
by the Treasurer of the University and paid ove
the Treasurer of the corporation. a

“ArTICLE VI.

“Active members, whose dues are paid in adva
shall receive the AjUMNI Macazing for one y
and shall be entitled upon presentation of the mem i
ship card, to preference in the specially reser
alumni sections in the stands at all Washington ar

PRIVILEGES.

mission to all Washington and Lee student funeti
subject only to the charge levied upon students —
the same function. In all cases, alumni attending s
functions shall be subject to the same rules and regu
tions that govern the admission and conduct of :
dents at these functions. :

“ARTICLE VII. MEETINGS.
(a) “The annual meeting of the corporation fe rt
election of officers and the transaction of any otl
business shall be held. on Alumni Day, during |
Commencement period of each year. A special m
ing may be held in the fall on the day of the ann
Home-coming football game or at any other time u
ten days’ notice by the Board of Trustees. A q ort
for the transaction of business at any meeting sh
consist of twenty active members. a
(b) “A meeting of the Board of Trustees shal
held at some time prior to the annual meeting duri
Commencement each year. Other meetings of |
Board shall be held at such times and places as may |
designated by the Board. A quorum for any meeti
of the Board shall consist of the majority of the m 9
bers of the Board. a

“ArtTICLE VIII. BoArp oF TRUSTEES.

(a) “The affairs of the corporation shall be ma
aged by a Board of Trustees, who with their sucet
sors shall be elected according to the provisions of t

 

Pris |

Charter as amended October 25, 1925.* Each Trustee
shall be elected for a term of three years, but shall not
suicceed himself in office. For good cause, any trustee
may be removed at any annual meeting of the corpora-
tion by a majority vote of the members present and
yoting. |

(b) “An Executive Committee composed of the
President of the Corporation, the Alumni Secretary,
and one other member of the Board (preferably a
resident of Lexington or of a nearby town) shall be
designated by the Board at each annual meeting. ‘The
Executive Committee may have and_ exercise the
powers of the Board of Trustees in the management of
the affairs of the Corporation in the interim between
meetings of the Board.

“ARTICLE IX, OFFICERS. |

(a) “The officers of the corporation shall consist of
a President, a vice-President, and a Treasurer, who
shall be elected from the active membership for terms
of three years by the members present at each annual
meeting. In no case shall any one of the above officers
succeed himself in the same office. The board of ‘Trus-
tees shall appoint a nominating committee of three
from its membership at least one month prior to the
annual meeting, who shall present their nominations
(including not less than two names for each office to
be vacated before the meeting at which new officers
are to be elected.

“An Alumni Secretary shall be elected by the Board
of Trustees of the corporation. Two resident alumni
and two non-resident alumni shall be elected at each
annual meeting for a period of one year to serve as
members of the Washington and Lee Athletic Council.

(b) “Powers and Duties: The President of the cor-
poration shall preside at all meetings of the corpora-
tion and at all meetings of its Board of Trustees. He
shall also be a member of the Executive Committee of
the Board. Othemwise, his duties shall be those that
usually appertain to such office.

“The vice-President shall perform the duties of the
President in the absence of that officer.

“The ‘Treasurer shall receive all alumni dues and
other funds of the corporation, shall countersign all
checks or orders for disbursements and render at each
annual meeting a duly audited account of receipts and
disbursements.

“The Alumni Secretary, employed under such terms
as may be arranged by the Trustees of a corporation,
shall be the Editor of the AjumNi Macazine and of
any other authorized alumni publication and shall keep
an accurate file of the addresses and other available
information of all alumni of Washington and Lee. He
Shall also be an ex-officio member of the Board of
Trustees of the corporation. He shall keep a_ per-

es:

*Note: The committee recommends that Dr. William T.
; hom of Washington, D. C., be elected an honorary trus-
€e of the Corporation for life.

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 29

manent record of all meetings of the corporation and
of the meetings of the Board of Trustees. He shall
be responsible to the Board of Trustees for all matters
pertaining to the business and welfare of the Cor-
poration and its membership.

“ARTICLE X. COMMITTEES.

“The following committee shall either be appointed
or elected, as indicated:

“EXECUTIVE ComMi?TrEE: As provided in Article
VIII. (b)

“NoMINATING ComMITrreE: As provided in Article
IX. (a)

“PUBLICATIONS CoMMITTEE: To consist of three
members elected for one year at the annual meeting of
the corporation. The chairman, preferably a resident
of Lexington, shall be an Associate Editor of the
ALUMNI MaGaziIneE. This committee shall work and
advise with the Secretary in the publication of the
magazine and in any other authorized alumni publica-
tion.

“UNIVERSITY BETTERMENT ComMITTEE: To con-
sist of three members elected for one year at the an-
nual meeting of the corporation. They may initiate or
approve suggested appeals for funds from the alumni
by the University or by the corporation. They shall
be charged with the collection of and subscriptions to
the present Loyalty Fund and the Endowment Fund,
with the cooperation of the administrative officers of
the University. |

“ARTICLE XI. PUBLICATIONS.

(a) “The corporation shall publish at least’ five
times each year a magazine devoted to the interests of
the alumni and the University. It shall be the official
organ of the corporation. Payment of dues shall in-
clude a subscription to the magazine.

(b) “At least once every five years beginning June
1, 1925, the corporation shall publish a Directory of
Alumni, giving addresses and other pertinent infor-
mation relative to all former students of Washing-
ton and Lee. The cost of compilation and publication
shall be defrayed by the sale of the book.

(c) “From time to time, with the approval of the
University officials and at the expense of. the Uni-
versity, the Alumni Secretary shall publish and dis-
tribute circular bulletins on University progress, etc.,
to every former student.

“ARTICLE XII. Loyauty Funp.

“Every former student of the University shall be
asked to make a subscription to the LoyaLty Funp.
This fund shall be used by the University for the pro-
jects designated by the donor, or at its discretion, for
current expenses. The collection and promotion of
the Loyalty Fund shall be in charge of the University
Betterment Committee and the Alumni Secretary, in
conjunction with the officials of the University.”

30 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Rev. J. W. (“Bill”) Claudy, ‘09

For years J. W. Claudy, ’09, has_ represented
Washington and Lee at Pittsburgh, Pa., where he
was pastor of the Watson Memorial Presbyterian
Church. Organizing the local alumni, assisting in
the Endowment Campaign and sending high stand-
ing students to the University, he has always been
an active and effective worker for his alma mater.

A year ago Mr. Claudy was made Director of the
Bureau of Defectives and Delinquents of the North-
ern Presbyterian Church in connection with that
organization’s Board of Education. This new work
embraces the entire territory covered by the de-
nomination in the United States and entails much
travel. However, his headquarters will remain in
Pittsburgh for the present.

“Bill” Claudy, originally from Baltimore, gradu-
ated from Washington and Lee in 1909 and from
the Princeton Theological Seminary in 1912. His
first work was as Assistant Pastor of the First
Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh, Pa. He then
became Pastor of the Watson Memorial Church,
which pulpit he filled until his present appointment.
He was Moderator of the Pittsburgh Presbytery,
delegate to the General Assembly, member of their
Morals Court Committee, and representative to the
Pan-Presbyterian Conference at Cordiff, Wales.
During the World War he served with the Army
Y. M. C. A. He is a member of the Delta Sigma
Phi fraternity and a 32nd degree man. Washing-
ton and Lee awarded him the degree of Doctor of
Divinity at Commencement, 1923.

While in Lexington last month, Mr. Claudy out-
lined a plan on which he has been working for the
establishment of a summer school of music at Lex-
ington. While the proposed school would be an
independent venture, the Washington and Lee build-

 

J. W. Craupy, D.D., ’09

 

 

ings would be used for this purpose. The reputa-
tion and standing in the musical world of the lead-
ers already interested in the project, plus Dr.
Claudy’s genius for organization and promotion
augurs the success of the movement. But more of
that “anon”.

Dr. Claudy’s devotion is best expressed in his last
letter to the Alumni office, which stated—“My inter-
est is and always shall be in W. & L. Whatever
success I have had, I owe to the rich background
that has been given me there, and which no honest
alumnus can ever repay, either by gifts or unstinted
service.”

Walter Lapsley Carson, °15

Last spring in an issue of the ALUMNI MAGAZINE
we announced the election of Rev. Lapsley Carson,
‘15, to the Board of Trustees of Washington and
Lee. We feel that our readers would be interested
to know something of Mr. Carson’s activities since
leaving the University, and have succeeded in pro-
curing the following brief outline.

In the fall of 1915, following his graduation at
W. & L., Mr. Carson entered the Union Theological
Seminary of Richmond, Virginia, where he com-
pleted his course in three years. Subsequently, he
enlisted, in the air service, attended a ground
school in Austin, Texas, and took his flying course

at Selfridge Field, Mt. Clemens, Michigan. Upon
the completion of his instruction here, he was com-
missioned a second lieutenant, serving ten months
in the air service. Shortly after the Armistice was
signed, he became the Co-pastor of the Second Pres-
byterian Church of Memphis, Tennessee, remaining
in this position three and a half years. In October
1922, the first Presbyterian Church of Richmond,
Virginia, called him as their Pastor, in which Ca-
pacity he has served to the present.

Mr. Carson was married in recent years to Miss.
Marie Greshom, and they have one little son, W. Ll
Carson, Jr.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 31

W. & L.-in Foreign Lands

Southern Presbyterian Mission,
Hangchow, China.

Dear Fellow Alumni:

1 am asked for something for the next issue of the
AzuMNI MaGazineE and I am glad to reply, though
as for myself and my doings in China there is very
little worth recording.

IT am in my thirtieth year in the field, more than
seventeen of which were spent in Kashing in board-
ing school and evangelistic work. For nearly twelve
vears 1 have been located in Hangchow where Mrs.
Plain and I give all our time to evangelistic and pri-
mary school work, a great deal of it in the country.
We are fortunate in being placed in Hangchow, the
capital of Chekiang Province, a great city of some
900.000 souls, famous in history and poetry and
beautiful for situation. On the west we have the
famous West Lake nestling among the hills with a
pagoda keeping guard at either end while on the
south we have the “Ts Chiang”, or “Winding River”
famous for its tidal bore. The Chinese have a saying,
“Zang-day tien dong, Ya-de Soo, Hang,” that 1s,
“Above is heaven, below Soochow and Hangchow,”
so we say that we live in “Heaven Below.”

The strong nationalistic feeling that has developed
among the students has shown itself plainly in the
city, but the fine country folks in their simplicity take
but little interest in it and show not the least anti-for-
eign feeling. ‘The movement has, however, had some
effect on the growth of the church in this section,
Fortunately this fine old
city has escaped fighting and looting, though our

people rather holding off.

Military Governor has been a leader in the general
mix up.

I am sending a list of our alumni in China, which
will show you with what representatives of old W.
& L. I have come in contact. Our Association hopes

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

J. Mercer BLarn, 94

 

 

to have a Chinese student at the University on alumni
scholarship next autumn.
With best wishes for our Alma Mater and_ her
alumni,
Yours cordially,
J. Mercer Bain, ’94.

112 Yamamoto Dori, 4 Chome, Kobe, Japan,

Mr. Verbon E. Kemp,
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia.
My dear Mr. Kemp:

Your good letter of Jan. 21st came a few days ago,
and I want to thank you and express my appreciation
of the good work you are doing in the ALUMNI
MaGazInE. I am enclosing check for two dollars
subscription. The growth and progress of Washing-
ton and Lee, and the achievements of its alumni are
subjects of immense interest to us in foreign lands,
even though we are largely cut off from active partici-
pation. Personally, I feel as proud of the successes of
my fellow alumni as if I were individually responsi-
ble for them.

You ask me to give a sketch of my activities in

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

H. W. Myers, ’94

 

 

Kobe. You know a missionary is supposed to do
everything in the world from teaching A B C, to
building churches, and honestly, some of the things
I have had to do would not be quite proper to print.
Then, the places I’ve tried to sleep, and the food I’ve
tried to eat, the wonder is that I have lived to tell the
tale !

Just at present, I am a teacher in the Kobe Theo-
logical School, giving instruction in New Testament
Greek, the Life of Christ and Astronomy. I am also
the Director of the Japanese Language School in
Kobe, in which young foreigners in Kobe are taught
the Japanese language. For the past three years I

 

 

 

 

 

   
     
     
    
    
   
   
  
    
  
   
 
   
   
  

have been pastor of the Kobe Union Church, where r3
preach twice every Sunday to an audience of teachers, 4
missionaries and business people, including sundry —
Parthians, Medes, Elamites and dwellers in Mesopo- —
tamia. Then I get out to a little Japanese church and 4
preach one of the same sermons over againin Japan,
There is little that is thrilling or dramatic about it, =
but one feels that things are moving forward, and |
good is being done. x
The one really big thing that I have done in Japan |
was to get hold of Mr. Kagawa, whose picture I send ©
you. He is an interesting combination of preacher, —
poet, philosopher, novelist, philanthropist, saint and ¥
labor leader. He is only thirty-seven years old, but _
is the author of some twenty-five or thirty books that ~
have had an immense sale and influence in Japan.”
His first novel went through three hundred and ©
twenty-five editions and brought its author a fortune, ~
which he gave away as fast as it came to his hands, ~
He is often referred to as the “Leader of New Ja- ©
pan,” or the “St. Francis of Japan.” I am proud to ~
claim him as my boy, with whom I have eaten and Ss
travelled and preached and slept many times. ae
With best wishes for your success and happiness,
Yours very cordially.
H. W. Myers, 794.

: ‘

Sutsien, Ku, China. 4
March 31, 1926. —
To my friends in the U. S. A.:, a
It is marvelous how our work can go forward in
spite of all the devil is doing to bring ruination to this
land, physically, intellectually and spiritually. And ~
yet our evangelistic work never had a brighter out-
look. Dr. Junkin came in from a long trip yesterday
thrilled over the new indications of interest in some
of the places he had considered the deadest. I spent ~~
part of last week in a place where the church mem-
bers meet at daylight and after supper every day for
prayer, and this is the place that last fall I considered
so dead that I officially buried it by withdrawing mis-"
sion support from their church school. They now ©
have opened up a school without my help and secured
a first class Christian teacher. The fact that the q
people and teacher are just managing to scrape
enough together to live on until next fall when I have
promised to continue my support, does not alter the
fact that a wonderful change has occurred. I told ©
them that just when I have made up my mind to im- 3
ter the old decayed roots a new shoot has appeared,
and it is true. on
I do not know to what extent you are keeping up 3
with social and political developments in this land. It
does not take a modern Daniel to see the spiritual
significance of the struggles now taking place. Some a

 

   

 

 

 

 

C. H. Parrerson, Jr.

 

— —

 

think of it as an age-old civilization trying to adjust
itself to modern times; some as law and order vs.
brigandage and oppression; some as the quickening
sense of nationalism expressing itself in supersen-
sitiveness and antiforeignism; some as Sovietism and
Radicalism vs. Capitalism; some as Russian money
and arms and pawns vs. Japanese money and ambi-
tion; some as selfishness and greed on the part of
one official vs. the same on the part of another; and
some, including myself, look on China as the place in
the world where the Devil is doing his utmost to ob-
struct the spread of the Kingdom of our glorious
Lord.

When one first comes to China and faces an enor-
mous evangelistic opportunity, and becomes increas-
ingly conscious of the odds, humanly speaking, that
are against us, ones first reaction is to become rather
bitter over the lack of the money and equipment and
men that we feel so necessary to seize the opportuni-
ties at our doors; but I can truthfully say that I have
Passed beyond this stage and realize that just to live
among this people and be dimly conscious of their
heeds, and so to be able to pray intelligently with and
for them, is worth any disadvantages that may be
attached to living in the interior of China today.

I am enclosing a picture of C. H. P., Jr., age thir-

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 33

teen months, to prove to you there is no disadvan-
tage to being a third generation Chinaman.
Sincerely,
C. H. Parrerson, 719.

Kenneth F. Hill, ’25, is Instructor in English at the
Soochow University Second Middle School, Shanghai,
China, being one of the schools supported by and un-
der the administration of the M. E. Church, South, U.
S. A. The missions schools are suffering from an
aggressive anti-Christian campaign, sponsored by the
Students’ Union, which condition makes it rather un-
pleasant for the Christian teachers, especially for-
eigners.

Mr. Hill was married in the Lee Memorial Church,
Lexington, to Miss Renee Prawl, of Lincoln, Ne-
braska, in June 1925.

 

THE PRINCETON-W. & L. GAME
(Continued from Page 8.)

 

the 32-yard line. Rauber then opened up with a
line-plunging attack that had the Tigers retreating 5
to 10 yards at a clip until the ball had moved up to
the Tiger 32-yard line, where it was fumbled and
pounced upon by a Princeton man, the Tigers punt-
ing as the half came to a close.

Bridges made a good return of Rauber’s kick-off
to start the second half and after an exchange of
kicks, Princeton had the ball on its own 30-yard line
when Jake Slagel slipped around right end for a
Tiger first down on the Generals’ 20-yard line, a
good scoring position. Rauber intercepted another
forward, then a Washington and Lee penalty forced
them to punt and Williams fumbled. ‘Tips, right
guard on the Generals’ eleven, scooped the ball into
his arms and ran for a touchdown which tied the
score when Rauber kicked a goal from placement.

Princeton gained forty yards in less than a half
dozen plays, but at the beginning of the last period,
Slagel was forced to kick. At mid-field Washington
and Lee uncorked a double forward pass and gained
ten yards. Over eagerness for which they paid a
five-yard penalty stopped the Generals momentarily.
Lott was again injected into the line-up with the ball
on the 22-yard line for a field trial.

Bartel blocked it. From then on the two teams re-
sorted to kicking, in which Princeton had all the best
of it.

Just before the close of the game, the Tigers at-
tempted a lateral pass, Prendergast to Norman, but
Spotts, the visitors’ end, intercepted it and from the
centre of the field he sped away. He reached the
Tiger 18-yard line, where he was downed by Pren-
dergast. Before there was time to complete more
than one play the game ended.

34 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FREDERIC C. MEREDITH, ’03, IN HAITI

The Very Reverend Frederic Charles Meredith, F.
R. G. S., Dean of the Cathedral of St. Luke, Ancon,
Canal Zone, spent a part of the month of July visit-
ing various parts of the Republic of Haiti, also mak-
ing one journey to the Cominican Republic.

Together with the Rt. Rev. Dr. Carson, Bishop
of the Episcopal Church of Haiti, and Lt. Carson,
U. S. Navy, two long flights by U. S. Marine air-
planes were made. The first flight was made from
the Capital of the Republic, Port au Prince, to
Hinche, the scene of so much disorder in the early
days of the American Occupation, and from there
to Cap-Haitien, passing over the famous “Citadelle
Laferriere”’ and the palace, “Sans Souci.” Cap-
Haitien is the place where the “Santa Maria’”’ one of
Columbus’ ships was wrecked.

The second flight included Jacmel and a journey
along the southern coast to Mayette, thence inland
in the general direction of Miragoane and over the
mountains to Furcy, Kenskoff and Petionville to
Port au Prince.

Trips by motor and horse included Miragoane,
Leogane, L’Archaie Mirebalais, Balladere, Casale, and
Buteau.

Through the courtesy of the Government the fa-
mous crown of the Emperor Faustin the First (1847-
59) and the “Epee de Soulouque” were viewed.

Dean Meredith is very enthusiastic on the progress
made by Haiti in the last few years. The work of
the Marines and the U. S. Navy is worthy of the
highest praise.

ITALIAN DISCOUNT BANK BOUGHT BY
RAYFORD ALLEY, ’10

Purchase of the controlling interest in the Italian
Discount and Trust Company by Rayford W. Alley
of the law firm of Alley & Geer, and his associates,
was made known recently. The purchase was made
from the Banca Nazionale di Credito, one of the
largest banks in Italy, with headquarters in Milam.
Emilio L. Wirz and Alberto d’Agostino, directors of
the Banca di Credito, negotiated the sale.

The Italian Discount and Trust Company was in-
stituted in 1909 and its main offices are at Broadway
and Walker Street. There are branches in Harlem
and the Bronx. Capital and surplus is more than
$1,600,000 and deposits exceed $12,000,000.

“Purchase of the controlling stock of the Italian
Discount and Trust Company was made,” Mr. Alley
said, “on behalf of a large number of my friends and
associates, including all the present directors and of-
ficers of the bank. No changes are contemplated in
the personnel or directorate, except that the latter

    
   
 
 
   
    
   
   
 
 
   
   
   
  
 
    
  
 
  
   
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
     
    

body will soon be increased to admit the pe
tion of certain large American interests.
“The Italian Discount and Trust Company —
the Banca Nazionale di Credito have entered in:
contract for the continuance of business with |
other for a long period of years. The Italian’ D
ness heretofore carried on by the bank will be ¢
tinued and encouraged, but at the same time spe
efforts will be put forth to develop a larger ps rt
pation in the strictly American banking business, 5.
Mr. Alley has been an attorney for the be ©
several years.

  

FRANK B. HAYNE, ’14

The Alumni office recently received a most intere
ing letter, postmarked “Tientsin, China”, from G
tain Frank B. Hayne, who is on his regular tour
foreign service which comes at least once to every |
ficer. He tells us that he found that country just
benighted and topsy-turvy as it is generally pain:
and that he is sorry not to be able to report hay
shed any light in the darkness. “The longer I —
here,” he writes, en more incomprehensible th
people become to me.’ a

He is at present in command of the Sub-post |
Tangshan, China, which is garrisoned by his compa
alone. Their mission is to keep their sixty-eig
miles of railroad open from Peking to the sea, und
the provisions of the Protocol of 1901. The rest |
the regiment to which he is attached is in Tientsi
about eighty miles off, and their function is re
the protection of the Foreign Concessions there. ©

“The tide of battle has passed back and forth ov
us several times since my year and a half he re
writes Captain Hayne, “but so far the Chinese
conducted their wars along strictly National lines, q
we have taken no active part in the fracas.” 5

With Captain Hayne’s letter was found the fallow
ing bit of local English, which is self- explanatory :
“Capt. F. B. Hayne, :
“Dear Sir: 4

“Here we send back your dog, its broken legs W
cured and bound by the Doctor, and he said it shi
he get well after one month. Our agent, Mr. Smi
was sick, till at home, I beg to inform you. Will}
please write us a receipt and obliged.

“Your faithfully,
“His Clerk: C. L. Yoe”

“yes

 

John L,. Patterson, ’21, is now affiliated with the
Fidelity and Casualty Company of New York, as 9
perintendent of the Bond Department of the St. Louis”
branch office.

”

re
/
wa

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 35

JOHN LUMPKIN HARRISON, ’16

John Lumpkin Harrison was born at Waverley, the
historic country home of the Harrison’s, near Rich-
mond, February 23, 1893.

While studying at Washington and Lee, he was
associated with James Robert Neal, now manager of
the Houston Plant of the Cheek-Neal Coffee Com-
pany. Naturally he heard much about the company
from Neal and became anxious to work for it.

Mr. Harrison was captain of the Washington and
Lee varsity baseball team in 1916, played on both
baseball and football varsities, and managed the
basketball team. Graduating in 1916, he joined the
Cheek-Neal staff in Richmond and had the honor of
taking the first order for Maxwell House Coffee for
the Richmond Plant. He continued as salesman un-
til he enlisted for war service. He was in the army
26 months, 19 of which were spent over seas with
the Rainbow Division.

Mr. Harrison came back to Richmond after the
war, then became manager of a tire company for a
year, and finally returned to the Cheek-Neal Coffee
Company in 1920 when their new Richmond build-
ing was erected. He is now Assistant Manager.

 

FRATERNITY AVERAGES
1925-26 Session

= Phi Epsilon’ Pas. 3...’ sce ss ees 75,863
mw; Zeta Beta . Tau.:. J.'.'. .\Gsgueee - Vepeeeres 74,440
i. Phi Delta Theta:.......Uii.....esc0s 74,305
= Delta Tau ‘Delta. :.>i 2 eee 74,156
s. Lambda -Chi- Alpha... . digi. os. vaeeee 72,591
= Kappa Alphal i. fil. icsdee » os0 ae eee 72,781
ym Pi Kappa’ Alpiays 00. age . Sooo 72,391
® Sigma Phi ‘Epeion,...\\cee-: see eee 72,256
m Sigma Chilchiosts yee > Soe 71,998
m. Pi Kappa  Piltesis 0. torus - ae 71,842
fe. Phi Gamma’ Delta: i. ogee « ss ee 71,377
2. Phi Kappa, Sigia. o.. ic cee = 0 se eee 71,325
83. Beta Theta PRs. 2... Secs 2 ce pe eee 70,725
14. Sigma Alpha Epsilon. 7. .i¢.... 22.52.55 70,714
Ao. Phi Kappa 26i.2%:.. <6 ee ee 70,061
£6. Kappa Sigipiisoci i. ci in eee be ee ee 70,362
7. Alpha Chi AkisGe..< >. uy eee se ee 69,996
i. Alpha Tan’. Oiepe. 2. cpae <1 iy see 69,550
DY. Sigma N@irci isis cs Pee oe eee 69,461
Local Club.
Arcades 79,741

 

Washington and Lee was represented by Francis
D. Takin, 00, of Meadville, Pennsylvania, at the in-
augural exercises ot Dr. James Albert Beebe as Pres-
ident of Allegheny College, last June.

FREELAND APPOINTED CIRCUIT JUDGE!

This announcement blazed across the front pages
of Miami, Florida, newspapers on June 15th, an-
nounced to the world in general and Dade County in
particular, that another W. and L. alumnus was
added to the already imposing list of alumni filling
important public posts in the sunshine state. It is
now Judge W. L. Freeland, ‘11, Circuit Court, Mi-
ami, Florida.

William Leonard Freeland, originally from Jack-
sonville went to Miami in 1915 after receiving his
L.L.B. from “Daddy” Burke in 1911. There he be-
gan, the practice of law. With the exception of one
year spent in the army, he continued in that rapidly
growing resort city. His appointment to the Circuit
bench of the Eleventh judicial district of Florida
was made by Governor John W. Martin for a six
year term, upon confirmation by the State Senate.

The appointment of Mr. Freeland brings to mind
the old boast that “Washington and Lee alumni run
the courts of Florida.” In Jacksonville, there is
able Federal Judge R. M. Call, ’78; Circuit Judge
George Cooper Gibbs, 03; Commissioner Fred
Valz, ’10; County Attorney Lonnie Howell, ’05; at
Jasper, Circuit Judge M. F. Horne, ’91; at Quincy,
Circuit Judge E. C. Love, 94; at Tallahassee, Su-
preme Court Judge T. F. West, ’99. In Miami, Wil-
liam F. Blanton, 10, already occupies the County
bench. ‘There are others whose records are not in
our files.

Mr. Freeland was born at Charleston, S. C. At
Washington and Lee he joined the Kappa Alpha
fraternity and Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity. He
was admitted to the Bars of Virginia and Florida
and the U. S. Supreme Court. In 1918 he married
Miss Helen E. Comstock, of Miami.

 

NASH LEGRAND, ’13

Following his discharge from the Army, July 14,
1919, Mr. LeGrand returned to Trinity College, Dur-
ham, N. C., and resumed the study of law. He ob-
tained license to practice in February, 1920, and
started his practice in Hamlet, N. C., where he has
been located ever since. In 1924, he was appointed
Prosecuting Attorney for the Hamlet District Re-
corder’s Court, and he still serves in this capacity.

 

J. M. Allen, ’85, is Editor and Proprietor of the
Cynthiana Democrat, the leading local newspaper of
Cynthiana, Kentucky.

Rev. John W. Claudy, ’09, represented W. & L. at
the Semi-Centennial Anniversary of the Founding of
Grove City College at Grove City, Pennsylvania, on
June 15th and 16th.

36 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Lee Museum—A Messsage to Our Alumni

Every alumnus of Washington and Lee will doubt-
less be much interested in the movement which has
been inaugurated this year for the establishment of a
Lee Museum at the university. The plan for the es-
tablishment of such a museum was approved by the
Board of Trustees at its meeting in January, 1926,
and a committee, consisting of President Henry Louis
Smith, Mr. Harrington Waddell and the undersigned
was appointed to take charge of the matter.

The plan contemplates the conversion of the now
unused portion of the basement of the Lee Chapel in-
to a museum in which will be placed the pictures of
the Lee family and such other relics and mementoes
of General Lee as are now in the possession of the
university. As the expense of fitting up this room will
be considerable, it may be some time before the work
can be completed. The committee nevertheless plans
to go ahead with the work of collecting such papers
and other mementoes of General Lee as the alumni
and friends of the university may wish to donate or
to lend under such conditions as their present owners
may prescribe. ‘The committee hopes that the Lee
Museum will eventually contain a large part of the
relics and other objects pertaining to General Lee
which are still extant. We have been auhorized by
the Board of Trustees to begin immediately the collec-
tion of as many of these objects of interest as can be
obtained. All donations and loans will be promptly
acknowledged, marked with a suitable inscription, giv-
ing the name of the donor or lender, and then depos-
ited in a place for safe keeping until such times as they
can be put in the permanent repository which will
shortly be prepared for their reception.

In view of the tremendous task which lies before
them, the members of the commitee in charge of the
proposed Lee Museum are asking the active co-opera-
tion of every alumnus. Communications and relics
may be sent to any member of the committee with the
assurance that they will be carefully preserved and
eventually placed on display to the thousands of visit-
ors who come to the Lee Chapel in ever increasing
numbers from year to year. You can render no greater
service to your Alma Mater than by assisting in this
notable enterprise.

If, therefore, you have any objects of interest in
your possession and are willing to donate or lend them
fo the university for the purposes above prescribed,
or if you know of any person who has such objects,
please write to some member of the committee without
delay, giving such details as you can. Letters, papers,
books, pictures, and all other objects pertaining to or
having belonged to General Lee or his immediate
family are desired by the committee. Notices will ap-
pear in the alumni magazine from time to time, in-
dicating the progress of the work. We hope before

   
   
 
   
 
 
  
  
   
  
    
    
    
  
   
  
 
 
  
   
  
   
     
 
  
  
   

long to be able to show visible results of our combi

efforts to make Washington and Lee even more ¢

in the past “The South’s Most Sacred Shrine.” x
William M. Brown, ’14,_

. 5. Any member of the committee may be :
sell at Lexington, Virginia, and all corres
will be promptly attended to.

 

WASHINGTON CONTRIBUTED FINANCIA
SUPPORT 3

Just as Lee contributed his name and influence.
well as services to Washington and Lee, so Geor;
Washington contributed his name and financial st
port. Washington had long been interested in c %
and their development in Virginia as a forward ¢
in transportation. About this time a new canal con
pany was organized, which later became the Ches
peake and Ohio canals. The state legislature of i
ginia felt that Washington was owed something, n
only for his services in the American Revolution,
also for the active part he had taken in the canal mc ve
ment. For this reason they voted in 1784 to pres
to Washington a number of shares in the canal cor
pany. Washington, being in public life and averse te
accepting gifts for his services in the Revolution, le
clined to accept the shares. Later his attention wa
called to Liberty Hall Academy, a very small s
in the Shenandoah Valley, and he asked the “a
ture if he might present the shares to this little school

This constituted the first important gift to Libe t
Hall Academy and was gratefully received by hi
trustees. Just previous to their acceptance the legi:
lature passed an act in January, 1798, changing the
name of the school to Washington Academy. ’

Later railroads were built through the Valley <
right-of-ways were needed. Naturally, the canals
been built along the lines of least resistance. hei r
right-of-ways were purchased by the railroad com-
panies and Washington and Lee still receives an an-
nual income of $3,000.00. a
2

Dr. Sherman B. Neff, formerly of Washington an 1
lee faculty assumes his duties this fall at the Uni-—
versity of Utah as head of the English department. |
During the summer he taught at the University of
Missouri. *

= ‘
%

 

 

Wilson M. Roach, ’25, is employed as Assistant
Trust Examiner, by the Department of Commerce,
Division of Banks, Department of Trusts, of Colum-_
bus, Ohio. The employees travel over the whole state”
and examine all trust banks. 3

~~

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 37

William MacCutchan Morrison, Pioneer of Civilization

By L. W. Irwin, D.D.

(Extracts from Address at Unveiling of the Morrison
Memorial Tablet in The Lee Chapel,
June 7, 1926.)

It is always interesting, in studying a great charac-
ter, to go back to origins. William MacCutchan
Morrison was born in Rockbridge County, Virginia,
near Lexington on November 10, 1867. His father,
Luther Morrison and his mother, Mary Agnes Mac-
Cutchan, as indicated by their names, were of the
sturdy Scotch-Irish stock ‘which so largely settled the
Valley of Virginia. Dedicated to God in infancy, he
was reared in a religious atmosphere of this Christian
home. On the farm he learned to work and developed
a fine physique.

At the age of sixteen he entered Washington and
Lee University and was conscientious, thorough and
especially distinguished. His entire boyhood was
spent under the ministry of Rev. D. A. Penick, pastor
of New Monmouth Church, a man of the highest
culture, wisdom and spirituality whose ministry was
fruitful in many young lives directed to great spheres
of service. |

Yielding to a call to the ministry he entered Louis-
ville Theological Seminary and while there decided
to devote his life to mission work in Africa. On
November 7, 1896, he sailed for Africa and reached
Luebo after a tedious journey of six months. The
rest of his life of twenty years was spent at Luebo,
with the exception of two furloughs of a year each at
home.

On his first furlough he married Miss Bertha Steb-
bins who returned with him to Africa. After four
years of this happy companionship she succumbed to
the terrible African fever, and Morrison threw him-
self with redoubled energy into his work. ‘The strain
of presiding and acting as host and advisor at a meet-
ing of the Conference of Protestant Missions held at
Luebo proved too much for a body already depleted
by years of incessant toil. It was the last straw upon
an overburdened life. Despite the best medical at-
tention and loving care, he grew rapidly worse.
Within a week he sank’ into unconsciousness and on
March 14th this great heroic soul quietly fell
asleep. He was laid to rest beside his wife at Luebo.
_ The three outstanding features of Dr. Morrison’s
life that will be dwelt upon are his work as Lin-
quist, as Champion of the Oppressed, and as Mission-
ary Executive, bearing in mind that these are sub-
Ordinate to his chief work of preaching the Gospel
and winning souls to Christ.

The first step was to learn the language. Next
an alphabet must be adopted and the language re-

 

 

 

 

Wa. M. Morrison, '87

duced to writing, its laws ascertained, studied, a
grammar formulated, and a dictionary made. After
this came the work of translating. The language
thus made ready for use had to be taught to the na-
tives. Morrison’s own words will convey an idea of
the magnitude of the task he had undertaken. ve |
am almost oppressed with discouragement when I
think of Bible translation. Three great monsters
rise up before me in the darkness: first of all the
work is with the very bottom of humanity—per-
haps as low as the lowest, with an unbroken history
of perhaps thousands of years of ignorance, super-
stition and spiritual darkness. Another difficulty is
the fact that all the customs, manners, pursuits and
minds of the people are so different from the people
described in Bible history. But perhaps the great-
est difficulty of all and the most discouraging is
the fact that after I have spent many weary years
in translation work, not one man can read a word
of what I have written. In the majority of mission
lands, the people can read, and a great work can be
done, at once, in translating the Bible and in writing
religious tracts. But here in Africa that important

38 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

means of spreading the truth cannot be employed.
In fact I have not seen a single character that seems
to indicate the most remote conception of a written
language.”

In eight months he was able to speak with a de-
gree of satisfaction in the Baluba tongue. In three
years he had reduced to writing the Baluba and Bena
Lulua dialects and finished a grammar of 416 pages.
The thoroughness and accuracy of the work is: evi-
denced by the statement of other missionaries “that
after twelve years of cumulative experience not one
flaw or error has been found in this marvelous
book.’ He also translated some of the Parables and
Miracles, paraphrased other portions of the Bible,
prepared a catechism, a hymn book and school books.
All this was preparatory to the great objective of a
translation of the entire Bible. Just before his death
he completed the translation of the Four Gospels and
Book of Acts. In the last few months the announce-
ment has been made that the dream of Morrison
had been fulfilled by the publication of the entire
Bible in the Baluba-Lulua language under the super-
vision of Rev. T. C. Vinson, his biographer and for
many years his collaborator in the work of transla-
tion.

Of the Grammar and Dictionary Sir Harry H.
Johnson, an eminent explorer and authority on Af-
rica, wrote to Dr. Morrison, “I need hardly say it
is one of a very high order and worthy to rank with
the best classical studies of the Bantu language fam-
ily.” Upon the publication of this work the degree
of Doctor of Divinity was conferred upon him by
his Alma Mater.

In addition to his remarkable and arduous work
on the language another outstanding feature of the
life of this great man was his effectively espousing,
from the first, the cause of the natives who were be-
ing exploited and oppressed by agents of the Belgian
king, Leopold, and by concessionary companies
formed for developing the resources of the Congo.

Upon his arrival in the Congo, Morrison took
note of the willful violation of treaty stipulations by
the Belgian officials. His protests, by letters to the
officials themselves, by articles in periodicals and by
publications in the Kasai Herald, the organ of the
Mission, were most potent influences in arousing pub-
lic sentiment to secure reform.

On his first furlough one of the greatest of his
accomplishments was the work he did on the Conti-
nent, in England, and in America, by exposing the
flagrant violations of the treaty by which the Congo
State had been erected, the wanton vandelism and
destruction of resources of the country and the hor-
rible cruelties practised upon the natives.

In Belgium an ineffectual effort was made to have
an audience with the King, but only an interview

with some of the ministers was secured but ‘
visible results. In England he addressed a dj
guished audience at Whitehall and had the ym:
privilege of speaking before Parliament. | >t
sentiment was aroused and Parliament passed a
olution to the effect that “King Leopold stood
peached before the bar of Christendom’ for his.
crimes and misdemeanors against humanity and p
especially for his violation, wholesale and retajj.
the provisions of the international act drawn yy
Berlin in the years 1884-1885.” a
Even in Belgium a small group of reformers +
Mr. Emile Vandervelde as leader denounced the
human practises of their king and demanded af
in the Congo. 4
In America Morrison threw himself with
whole soul into arousing public sentiment.
courts of the Southern and the Northern Presb
rian Churches, in the Boston Peace Conference
through leading periodicals, by memorial to the §
ate of the United States, he endeavored to enlis 2
influence of our people and Government on behz
the Congo. Leopold under this pressure of f
opinion appointed a commission to investigate co
tions in the Congo. It was a government ir ve
gating itself. This Commission was forced to br:
in a report which in every particular sustained
charges brought by Morrison and other missiona
This, together with a report of the British Const
the same effect, resulted in Great Britain apf ‘oat
ing the signatory powers of the Berlin and Bruss
acts with a demand for reforms in the Con
Through the efforts of the Congo Reform Assot
tion in England and America the Congo State ¥
wrested from the hands of Leopold and made a ¢
ony. Untold relief was thus brought to millions
oppressed natives. *
Most men would have regarded the splen
achievement already won as a sufficient performar
of duty, but noting that widespread abuses still ¢
isted, Morrison continued his protest. 4
A voluminous correspondence with the officials
the State and the Kassai Rubber Company ensu
after Morrison’s first return from Africa. Notwitl
standing all the Congo Reform Association had don
and the fair promises of Belgium, it was found thi
these reforms had not been very extensive, nor
promises fulfilled. In a letter to Dr. Chester, M
rison says, “Regarding the Congo State affairs,
need only say that we are not now suffering from t
old forms of outrage so much, hand cutting, sla’
raiding, murdering, etc., but I am sorry to say t
I believe the sum total of suffering is much no
than it was formerly.” 2
By this denunciation of the new and more ren

  
   
  
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  
 
  
  
 
  
   
   
 
   
    
 
  
   
    
   
   
   
   
 
  

oa

*

system of oppression, through correspondence W!

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 39

State officials and through the Kassai Herald, Mor-
rison became a marked man for revenge or riddance.
This was accentuated by the fact that the exposure
of the atrocities had caused a disastrous drop in the
stock of the Kassai Rubber Company which in des-
peration and revenge they were trying to retrieve.
Exception was taken -to an article by Sheppard in
the Kassai Herald and he and Morrison, as editor,
were indicted and peremptorily summoned before
a court at Leopolsville, a thousand miles from home
to be tried on a charge of slander, with penalty of a
fine of $16,000 or five years imprisonment.

Morrison, against whom the charges were aimed in
reality from the outset, assumed the entire responsi-
bility and onus of trial. Notwithstanding the mani-
fest haste, injustice, and arbitrary inconvenience im-
posed on Morrison there was no cringing, or flinch-
ing, or attempt at evasion, or retraction.

On the one side was a powerful and autocratic
Government and wealthy company, and on the other
two poor missionaries representing the cause of jus-
tice and humanity. The charge against Shepard was
dismissed. the Kassai Rubber Company required to
pay the costs and the charge against Morrison was
summarily dropped. The acquittal was a signal vin-
dication of Morrison not only in the Congo, but be-
fore the world. Sir Conan Doyle said that Morrison
on trial at Leopoldville was a more striking exponent
of liberty than the Bartholdi statue in New York
Harbor.

The first and most far reaching policy originated
by Morrison at Luebo was that of having every na-
tive who came under the influence of the Mission be-
gin, as soon as possible, to teach some one else. With
a leader’s vision he seized upon the Society of
Christian Endeavor to train the youth for service.
The Morrison Training School was established with
the same idea of increasing the efficiency of the work
of the youth already going out to tell the story of the
Gospel.

The development of the infant church in self gov-
ernment is credited to Dr. Morrison more than any-
one else. As the Luluas were degenerate and lazy,
no one of that tribe was received into the church
until he had raised and harvested a crop.

In 1913 a Theological Seminary was established
largely through the work of Dr. Morrison. He also
formed the plan of having an annual or semi-annual
meeting of all workers of the Mission for confer-
ence, instruction, and inspiration. He was twice
elected president of the Conference of Protestant
Missions in the Congo, composed of fourteen de-
nominations. In addition to the administrative work
he was busy with the work of his own mission; su-
Perintending the teaching of trades, building, road
Making, farming, teaching, translating, publishing,

editing, and making long evangelistic trips without
the ordinary conveniences that are at hand in most
mission fields.

Possibly the most impressive sight of this man of
such extraordinary gifts of linguistic and executive
genius is of his preaching the Gospel to these simple
folk in their own tongue and after the toil of the
day going his rounds of pastoral work, entering the
huts of the natives, counselling, instructing and pray-
ing with them, as a father.

For intellectual power and linguistic talent; for
breadth of vision and charity to others; for self
control under every form of trial; for utter selfless-
ness; for courage in face of danger; for administra-
tive ability of the first order; for clear-sighted wis-
dom; for originality in plans and policies for work;
for depth of spirituality and ability to endure and
perform hard work; William MacCutchan Morrison
has had no superior in the mission force of any
church.

Joseph FE. Cockrell, ’26, passed through Lexington
last month on an auto trip. He is banking, farming
and practicing law in Dallas, Texas. |

Ralph L. Scott, ’26, is to be an instructor in English
at Georgia Tech this year.

 

 

A complete Directory of Washington
and Iree Alumni has just been published.
It includes a list of former students,

_ with biographies by classes from 1749 to
1926. Also, a personal record of all
campus activity such-as athletics, scholar-
ships, publications, etc., has been added.
The book contains 608 pages and 22 full-
page illustrations, handsomely bound in
dark blue cloth. If you have not received
your copy return this blank with check or
money order for $4.50 to the ALUMNI,
Inc., Drawer 897, Lexington, Va., and

it will be mailed at once, prepaid.

 

 

 

 

 

 

40 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

War Letters of Kiffin Yates Rockwell, ’13 (Continued)

Dear Mamma:

Just a few lines to let you know that I am well
and thinking of you. This is the sixth day that we
have been in a small village in the rear of the
trenches. It was to be six days of rest, but each day,
at 11 A. M., we have gone out with our guns and
picks and shovels and dug trenches until 4 P. M.

The same was to be done yesterday, Xmas, but
about ten of us slipped off to a farmhouse and drank
coffee and talked all day. This morning we went to
work at seven and worked till.eleven and then with
the others until 4 P. M. Tonight, we go back to the
trenches.

I suppose Paul has written you that he is out of
it, but his condition is not serious. I haven’t heard,
but am hoping he was sent to Paris.

We had plenty of good things to eat for Xmas,
some of them bought and some sent to us from
Paris. About the best thing was a Virginia ham
given us by an American doctor who is in the Le-
gion. It had been sent to him. We had candy, nuts,
jam, cheese, etc., and I even had an orange given me
by an Englishman, from a package he received.

The weather has been fine for the last few days,
cold but clear.

Much love,
Kiffin.

Dec. 26, 1914.
Dear Paul:

Received your letter yesterday, also saw your ar-
ticle in the “Daily Mail,” which we all thought well
written. This is the sixth day that we have been
here in C , supposedly for a rest, but every
day we have gone out at eleven o’clock and dug
trenches until four o’clock. Yesterday, they did the
same, but about ten of us slipped off and spent the
afternoon at a farmhouse drinking coffee and rum.
This morning we went to work at seven and quit at
eleven. To-night, we go back to the trenches. I
have had an awful cold for the past week and have
felt perfectly rotten. Mail was so congested that
few packages have arrived. Only two came for the
Americans and we split the things up among our-
selves (that is, among the ones who claim to be
Americans). We have had plenty to eat, but I
don’t think anything has been distributed that you
would need or care for. There are socks, gloves,
helmets, mufflers and all kinds of woollen goods for
everyone. But they are only lice-traps, and really
not needed, so I don’t bother to load myself down
with any. I haven’t received any package from
Hilda; if it comes I will send it on to you if possi-
ble; otherwise, eat it myself. Some man in Paris

 

   
   
  
  
 
 
   
   
 
   
   
  
    
    
 
   
  
    
  
   
 
    
 
 
 
  
   
 
 
  
 
   

sent a package of two mufflers, two pairs 6 *
and two helmets for you and me, but nothine
We are all loaded down with such things, Ry
are worthless, but I will write today and thank
I have not been able to locate your “Rub: :
Casey said his girl gave the films to Prince. T |
your Toulouse book. Bill Thaw left day before
terday to join an aviation corps. The English
pect to be transferred to the English Army sg
they took the names of all the English, and
wanted to add my name. I had rather stay
France but sometimes I feel that this is a D——
ten outfit, and I had best transfer, being handicay
by not speaking French. Send me a 20-frane
to pay up my few debts. Dr. V—V—(Van Ve
gave us a good Virginia ham, which we all enje
very much. As I said, we had plenty to eat
Xmas, but I didn’t enjoy it much, owing to the
cold. Hope you had a good Xmas. 4
Much love,

 

2eme Regiment Etranger,
Bon C. lere Cie.,
Dec. 29, 191:
This is the third day back in the same trene
as we were in last. The line is a little more act
Last night our petit poste and a German patrol f
a little scrap. They gave “Aux Armes.” We stay
out for a few minutes, then started back in, wh
the moon came out. It made the trees in the
tance look like a vast wave of men coming across |
field. Two or three officers yelled “Aux arms,” ¥
their voices full of alarm, and there was much «
citement for a few minutes. We were commant
not to fire until they were close, and then the m
take was discovered. Later in the night shrap
shells burst right over us, and the Germans turn
loose their machine-guns on the whole line ©
trenches. The fire was high, and no one was injure
We have plenty of clothing and food, owing
packages arriving from Paris. Passed Rapier y
terday; he yelled “Hello! and live in hopes.”
Kiffin.

 

+8
iS,
-

Se

Announcement has been received of the app pach
ing marriage of Philip F. Howerton, ’24, to Mi

Lemma Jordan Shepherd of Lenoir, N. C., thé we
ding to take place in November.

 

Dr. Benjamin A. Wooten, accompanied by his fé
ily, spent the summer in Wisconsin where he acceptet
an appointment at Yerkes observatory. :

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 41

PERSONALS

John M. Withrow, '63, died at his home in Lexing-
ton on May 15th.

We learned with regret that Levi Pearce, ‘80, died
recently at Cotulla, Texas.

The engagement of William J. Rushton, Jr., ’21,
to Miss Elizabeth Jane Perry has recently been an-
nounced. ‘The wedding will take place in November.

A wedding invitation of much interest is that of
Wm. Henry Trotter, Jr., 22, who was married in July
to Miss Charlotte Llewellyn of Chattanooga, Tenn.

Prof. John A. Graham and Prof. Carl E. Gill spent
the summer in Europe.

Announcement was received at the Alumni Office
during the summer of the marriage of Robert C.
Smith, ’26, to Miss Margaret Miller, June 30th.

W. L. Northcutt, 82, located in Cynthiana, Ken-
tucky, is engaged in flour milling and retail coal deal-
ing.

Richard Beard, ’24, is associated with the Cherokee
Mills, of Birmingham, Alabama. He expects to be
married in October.

Captain Reuben Ragland, °10, of Jacksonville,
Florida, was the guest recently of Colonel R. Barclay
Poague, at the Virginia Military Institute.

Invitation was received to the marriage of Perry D.
Howerton, ’22, to Miss Leonore Elizabeth Colyer of
Charlotte, N. C. on September 18th.

On September 16th, Miss Otis Newcomb of Saxe,
Virginia, became the bride of Charles McC. Morrison,
19. The couple will make their home at Colliers-
town, Virginia.

Announcement has been received of the marriage
of Walter C. Preston, ’15, to Miss Margie Russell of
Boston, Massachusetts, the wedding taking place on
September 11th.

Frank A. Nelson, 96, Secretary of the Chatta-
nooga Clearing House Association, is attending the
National Bankers Convention in Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia.

FUNERAL OF JOHN A. KINNEAR

The funeral of. Mr. John A. Kinnear, ’20, took
place at Timber Ridge at 11:00 o’clock September
llth, at the Old Stone Church, Pastor Williams and
Dr. Gibson conducting the services. Mr. Kinnear
Went over with the W. & L. Ambulance Section in
the war, and tuberculosis which caused his death re-
sulted from his being gassed on the battle front.

 

Prof. William J. Bean taught this summer at the
University of Virginia summer school.

The Lee Moulton Brunner Library of Dramatic
Literature is being established at Washington and Lee
by James D. Brunner of Jefferson City, Tennessee,
in memory of his son, Lee Moulton, who died at
Chapel Hill, N. C., April 29, 1903. The library con-
sists of about four hundred volumes so far, and more
volumes will be contributed at a later date.

Announcement has been received of the engage-
ment of Claiborne W. Gooch, 715, to Miss Cornelia
Christian, both of Lynchburg, Virginia.

Dr. and Mrs. James Lewis Howe spent some weeks
during the summer in Massachusetts at the seashore
at Sansbury Beach.

Prof. Clayton E. Williams and Prof. Earl K. Paxton
spent the summer in study at Columbia University,
New York City.

Prof. James F. Moffat, Jr., taught at the University
of Alabama near Tuscaloosa, Alabama, during the
summer.

 

 

Subscription Blank

IT'WO BUCKS

is all that’s necessary to bring back the pep
of your college days in eight snappy
copies of the

MINK

Here’s my two bucks.
Send my copy to:
POM ii as Bese

Ree. ex. oo Sc mckbalh Ook oh cae

Mail with check or Money Order to
T. B. BRYANT, JR.,
THE MINK,

Lexington, Va.

42 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

COMMENCEMENT, 1926
(Continued from Page 7)

a.; C. P. Rose, ’21, Grundy, Va.; C. A. Joyce, ’23,
Logan, W. Va.; E. F. Garber, ’21, Harrisonburg, Va.;
Jas. R. Caskie, 06-and ’09, Lynchburg, Va.; J. L.
Baber, Jr., 14, Lynchburg, Va.; Geo. W. Whip, 06,
Baltimore, Md.; L. P. Holland, ’06, Suffolk, Va.; S.
S. McNeer, 716, Huntington, W. Va.; J. W. Fitchett,
24, Huntington, W. Va.; M. D. Campbell, ’05, Lex-
ington, Va.; D. L. Ragland, Jr., ’24, Danville, Va.;
H. Grey Funkhouser, ’21, Dayton, Va.; Emmett Mac-
Corkle, ’74, Rockbridge Baths, Va.; F. Gordon Hud-
gins, ’25, Newport News, Va.; A. G. Robinson, ’70,
Lexington, Va.; E. D. Gibson, ’24, Mansfield, O.;
Jno. S. Coe, ’87, Boyce, Va.; Charles C. Thomas, ’06,
Baltimore, Md.; E. M. Cameron, ’24, Irwin, Penn. ;
L,. J. Desha, 06, Lexington, Va.; G. W. Rader, ’04,
Murat, Va.; R. B. Houchens, ’25, Pineville, W. Va.;
J. H. Campbell, 12, Lexington, Va.; John C. Moo-
maw, °11, Hollins, Va.; Harry Tucker, ’10, Raleigh,
N. C.; George Haw, ’04, Richmond, Va.; J. E.
Quisenberry, 06, Lexington, Va.; B. F. Harlow, °96,
Lexington, Va.; Carl FE. L. Gill, ’21, Lexington, Va. ;
Earle K. Pusidh, 08, Lexington, Va.; L. J. Boxly,

 

09, Roanoke, Va.; J. G. Johnston, ’11, Murat, Va.;.

B. F. Howard, ’21, Welch, W. Va.; Edwin H. How-
ard, ’24, Hagerstown, Md.; L. W. Irwin, ’88, Wil-
rg Va.; R. E. Sherrill, ’22, Haskell, Tex.;

. M. Harrison, ’23, Bluffton, Ga.; S. M. Scott, 68,
toss Alta, W. Va.; J. S. Grasty, ’04, Charlottes-
ville, Va.; H. D. Corsaheil 82, Lexington, Va.; D. C.
Hatton, 99, Erwin, Tenn.; E. B. Roeser, 06, Mont-
gomery, W. Va.; H. Awe Spang, Jr.; ’25, New
Haven, Conn.; Henry M. Bandy, ’06, Norton, Va.;
Madison P. Coe, *15, Washington, D. C.; A. L. Stras,
10, Roanoke, Va.; Curtis C. Humphries, ’17, Lex-
ington, Va.; John C. Heavener, ’22, Webster Springs,
W. Va.; P. G. Wilson, ’24, Staunton, Va.; Thos. R.
Nelson, ’25, Staunton, Va.; R. G. Whittle, ’24, Roa-
noke, Va.; F. C. Switzer, ’24, Harrisonburg, Va.;
Henry K. Hill, Jr., °25, Louisville, Ky.; B. R. Hooper,
‘11, Covington, Va.; C. C. McNeill, ’03, Savannah,
Ca: W. Hill iota: Jr., ’26, Manassas, Va.; Hugh
M. Witt, 10, Richmond, Va.; Marvin H. Walton,
’25, Danyille, Va.; W. C. Raftery, ’15, Yonkers, N.
Y.; Thomas C. Penn, ’23, Roanoke, Va.; Denis S.
Kilmer, ’11, Martinsburg, W. Va.; Bill Taylor, ’27,
Danville, Va.; M. Spector, ’25, Staunton, Va.; John
C. Summers, ’25, Charleston, W. Va.

  
    
  
   
  
  
   
   
  
  
  
  
   
  
   
  
   
  
  
   

BLUE AND WHITE DEFEATED KE
IN HARD FOUGHT BATTLE —

In one of the greatest free-for-alls ever. ste
the Southern Conference, Washington and
out a victory over a surprisingly strong K,
eleven. The Generals showed a strong runnin
tack, while the Wildcats displayed one of the
passing machines ever uncovered in Kentucky, |
final score was 14-13 with the Virginians har zi
the bigger end. Over-eagerness cost the Kentt
the game when they were offside after Capte ‘ain
ber of the Generals had missed the try for extr a
in the third quarter. 4

Whitlock intercepted a Wild¢at pass in the
half and ran 60 yards for a touchdown, afte r
tucky had scored on passes. Kentucky then ;
another drive for a touchdown, and the half
13-7. In the second half the Generals staged a
tacular 60 yard drive for a touchdown with
and Whitlock bearing the brunt of the atte :
fourth quarter was featured by two offensive |
by the Wildcats, and the game ended with Wa
ton and Lee driving toward the Kentucky line. |

Whitlock and Rauber starred in the backfield
the Virginians while Fitzpatrick, Holt, and §
excelled in line work. For Kentucky, the passin
Jenkins was outstanding, while Schulte, Smith,
and Pence also did good work.

ca

DR. TUCKER APPOINTED ON BO. RI

Dr. R. H. Tucker, professor of Economics
Business Administration, has recently been app
by Governor Byrd as a member of the committ
cooperate with the New York Bureau of Muni
Research in making an extended survey of tl
ministrative organization of state and local ge
ment in the State of Virginia. One of the cari
features of this committee is to investigate the | 3
tions in Virginia and to equalize the taxes | n
counties accordingly. 2

Dr. Tucker delivered the commencement addi es
the College of William and Mary last June where
received the degree of Doctor of Laws. es

a
>

7

Prof. Roscoe B. Ellard spent the summer in the f
suit of graduate studies at the University of Mi Se

i
Pa te
+ a
a
‘7

i

