 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAG ,
OF |
Washington and Lee University
Vol. | NOVEMBER, 1924 O.

7
~—

pee

=

os

 

 

emo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"92, FOR PRESIDENT

Joun W. Davis,

 

 

 

(JMR aoe AG

    

 

PROFESSIONAL DIRECTORY

This space is maintained for the benefit of alumni of all professions who wish to maintain business correspondence
or become correspondents with other alumni.
Rates upon application to the Alumni Secretary.

 

 

 

K. I. McKay, ’04
R. W. Withers, ’05
M. B. Withers, 710

McKAY AND WITHERS
ATTORNEYS AT LAW
Tampa, Florida

 

PHILIP P. GIBSON, LAwyeEr

General practice in all State and
Federal Courts

Suite 926-927: Robson-Prichard Building,
Huntington, West Virginia

 

General Civil Practice Throughout
Eastern Kentucky
BEN D. SMITH, ’14

Member oF BEN V. SmitH AND Son,
Lawyers
Somerset, Kentucky

VINCENT M. MILES

Member of Firm

Fort Smith,
Arkansas

Pryor AND MILES
Attorneys at Law

PAUL D. BARNS
ATTORNEY AT LAW

Miami, Florida
Firm of Thompson, Barns & Thompson

 

New York Office: 61 Broadway

StuART CHEVALIER, ’07
MILLER AND CHEVALIER

ATTORNEYS AND COUNSELORS AT LAW
Southern Building, Washington, D. C.

L. H. CARLOCK
ATTORNEY AT LAW

LaFolletie, Tennessee

 

 

JOHN G. HERNDON, JUNIOR
ACCOUNTANTS AND AUDITORS
Tax CONSULTANTS

Bankers Trust Building,
Walnut 6400-6771 Philadelphia

JAMES R. CASKIE, ’09
ATTORNEY AT LAw

Peoples Bank Building,
Lynchburg, Virginia

 

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

Compliments of the President of the
Alumni, Inc.

F. C, CAFFREY, ’09

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

PAUL C. BUFORD, JUNIOR, ’13
ATTORNEY AT LAW

811 Boxley Building,
Roanoke, Virginia

 

James E. Smitherman
John H. Tucker, Jr., ’10
David E. Smitherman

SMITHERMAN & TUCKER
LAw OFFICES

Commercial National Bank Building,

Shreveport, Louisiana

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

THIS SPACE AVAILABLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

OC Ee

 

 

E. P. DAVIS, President C. S. GLASGOW, Vice-President

THE CORNER, Inc.

(Opposite Post Office)

General Headquarters for W. and L. Men
Athletic News, Pennants, Banners, Sporting Goods

Will gladly mail any alumnus a Football Schedule upon request

M. D. CAMPBELL, Manager ) R. A. SMITH, Secretary

 

 

——
————————

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

PUBLISHED BY .
WASHINGTON AND LEE ALUMNI, INCORPORATED
Drawer 897, Lexington, Virginia
EK. C. Carrrey, President _E. L. Grawam, Jr., Treasurer
VeRBON E. Kemp, Alumni Secretary, Editor

Application made for entry as second class matter at the post office, Lexington, Virginia, September 15, 1924.

CONTENTS

PAGE PAGE
“Where a Warm Welcome Awaits’............ 4 The YiiM. OA. "hark Zetfoss Si. . cee ee 18
Dr. Smith Recovering from Serious Auto Accident. 5 New Faculty Melppete. ce, aa ee 19
mne. Schedghe (Ri: A, SMB is es oe lee Fraternity” Houses 277. ovae.. vu. (Re . cen ee 20
1924 Generals. Forrest Fletcher............... 7 Chemistry Building Completed. Dr. R. W. Dickey. 21
‘Davis Alumni Clubs Organized..........5..... 8 Where Your Money Goes. Paul M. Penick, Treas. 22
The Clarksburg Reunion. A. L. Dabney....... 9 Wilson Fields Cy Sey Glasgoa: ois. 5's og chek: + 23
John W. Davis. Dr. R. G. Campbell.........,. 10 Letters ‘of: Kiffin’ ROGKWOH. 64). ).0)s oak ok ae 24
ene . Davis, cme Mint OMA yates ia iis CS neetre ais 11 Moads to ‘Lexingtye. 2500405. 5 cah sce Cate 24
Matriculation; <2:.S: Mattingly. oo 0s. eo ge. 12 “Recollections and Letters of Gen. R. E. Lee.”
The Swing.: Thornton Allen..........0.00005- 15 A Review by Dr. Wm. Taylor Thim........ 25
Albert Steves Realizes Ambition............ Shi aie Wy Gm Dells 2a. foes Gs Re. oa 25
Baditorial o:.:: «cies Sia. «sy ae coos ve ahs 14 Pima in” POUR sii edic ws oh. Paes so 27
eDick”’ Dia tiieds Met ers Sie ee mma ke 15 Ligge Drawer ered beet twits «cme Cee ee 28 ©
Hon. Lucien H. Cocke....... Bei ye.c Shue hak 16 Perennials: i") sav alew a's kia cpa Sac Ae oa nee 31
Changes on the Board of Trustees.............. 17 Gitiary. esos th aces Mee te eee Ce 35

 

 

BOLEY’S BOOK STORE

RILEY’S LIFE OF LEE, prepaid $2.50
(Edition exhausted. Our limited supply the only copies available.)
ACTUAL PHOTOGRAPHS
General Robert E. Lee, size 7 x 9, prepaid $1.50 Stonewall Jackson, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50
General Robert E. Lee, size 9 x 13, prepaid 3.00 CAMPUS VIEWS, size 7 x 9 prepaid 1.50

Money order or check should accompany order

HENRY BOLEY, Manager Lexington, Virginia

 

 

 

“WHERE A WaRM WELcoME ALways Awarts You”

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Dr. Smith Recovering from Serious Auto Accident

“RocK SPRINGS, WYOMING,
1 P. M., Saturday, July 19.

“Jumped a culvert and hit a dirt bank twenty miles
east of Rock Springs last night. Front of car badly
damaged. Father hit steering wheel. Has _ slight
concussion of brain but rapidly clearing up. Much
better today and is receiving the best of care at the
hospital here. Not serious and doctor assures us he
will be out in three or four days. Norris cut over
eye and cracked shoulder bone but is up and around
today. Frank and I unhurt. "

The above telegram from Rasmand Smith was
the first news of the accident to reach Dr. Smith’s
family at Lexington. Dr. Smith and his three sons,
Raymond, age twenty-three, Norris, age fifteen, and
Frank, age thirteen, were just starting on the return
lap of their summer auto camping trip to Yellow-
stone Park. Until that time the trip had been a per-
fect fulfillment of Dr. Smith’s long anticipation of a
vacation with his sons. The party left Lexington
June twenty-fifth, visiting Washington, D. C., Niag-
ara Falls, Chicago and Yellowstone Park. They
were planning to return via the Grand Canyon but
gave that up in preference to the big Western rodeo
to be held at Cheyenne. They were on their way to
Cheyenne when the accident occurred.

The five-passenger car plunged over a twenty-foot
embankment and buried its nose in the dirt bank be-
low. Raymond, though badly stunned, removed his
father from the wreckage and with the help of a
passerby carried him to’a nearby store. The next
train was flagged and the entire party was taken to
the hospital at Rock Springs, twenty-two miles
away. ‘The boys were taken in charge by the family
of Mr. T. S. Taliaferro and throughout their stay
received the kindest and most considerate attention
from those good people.

News came slowly, but the succeeding telegrams
from Raymond were most encouraging. At 9 A. M.
Sunday he wired “Father much better today but still
not sure where he is and doesn’t know what hap-
pened. Suitcases with Frank’s and Father’s clothes
stolen. Send some for them. Norris is out. Father
is resting well and receiving the best care re
Three days later Raymond wired “Father incldualy
better. Practically normal today. lRealizes what
happened and is improving rapidly. Should be out
in a couple more days. Resting well.”

On July thirtieth Dr. Smith was able to leave
Rock Springs by train. He was accompanied by
Rev. Mr. Abraham, rector of the Rock Springs Epis-
copal Church. Raymond and the two younger boys
left the same day by auto, returning as rapidly as
possible via Kansas City to Lexington.

 

Pres. Henry Lourts Smits
Washington and Lee: University

 

 

The long train trip was very wearing because of
Smith’s weakened condition. At the advice of
Lexington physicians he was taken to Johns Hop-
kins Hospital where he improved steadily. He re-
turned home a week before the opening of college
completely well again. However, he was ordered to
take a three months’ rest before again assuming the
heavy duties of college administration. A three
months’ leave of absence was forced upon him by
the Board of Trustees and he is now spending the
time with relatives in Greensboro, North Carolina.
To one of Dr. Smith’s very active disposition, rest
and leisure are irksome. However, few realize the
strain under which he has labored for the past three
years, least of all himself. In addition to the ex-
pense of his tireless energy in behalf of University
expansion and progress, he suffered the death of his
aged and revered mother and of his brother, Dr. AI-
fonso Smith, during the past year. Washington and
Lee has begun to reap the harvest of his foresight
and labor. It was with a spirit of Thanksgiving that
the Board of Trustees urged him to conserve his’ en-
ergy and rehabilitate his strength.

6 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Schedule

By R. A. Smitu, °14, Graduate Manager of Athletics

The 1924 Generals are under-
taking one of the hardest sched-
ules in years. In view of. this
they need the moral support of
the student body and alumni.
Don’t let them visit your terri-
tory without your having at-
tended the games. Report at
the Alumni Headquarters and
register even though your time
is limited, as this is the only of-
ficial way we have of knowing
you were there.

All Washington and Lee is re-
joicing at the return of Eddie Cameron. The pile-driv-
ing fullback and captain of the 1923 eleven is in the
pink of condition and is all set to make his last year of
college football one of outstanding brilliance. Captain
Tilson, too, is prepared to put in a big year and in early
season practices has shown himself to be a fighting
leader. Kay Thomas and Ralph Daves should con-
stitute a pair of ends second to none in the south.
Stemmons and Budnick are showing worlds of de-
fensive strength. In the backfield, Henry Wilson,

 

Dick SMITH
Graduate Manager
Athletics

Bo McMillan; Johnny McVay, “Duke” Perry, and
Harry Dawson make up a group of veterans who will
undoubtedly reel off hundreds of yards through and
around opposing lines this season.

First, Roanoke College, on September twenty-
seventh—supposedly an easy team—possibly so in
former years. However, such was not the case.
October fourth will witness a battle with Mary-
land in the American’ League Park at Washington.
This will be one of the hardest games of the present
schedule and will test the strength of the team.

October eleventh, Wake Forest, with one of the
strongest teams in the old North State, will battle the
Generals in Lexington. In fact those teams that were
picked to be breathing spells for the Big Blue Team
will push the boys to win by a small margin, as
Citadel is reported to have the best team in the history
of the school. It looks now as though the only let-up
will come on Saturday before Thanksgiving when the
Generals will be given absolute rest. Below is given
the schedule and the name of the man from whom
alumni can secure tickets for each game. Special De-
livery return envelopes should be enclosed in orders
to Ellis Brown for tickets to the Virginia game.

 

 

COMPLETE FOOTBALL SCHEDULE

 

 

 

 

Varsity Ticket Reserva- ' Alumni Admission
Date Time Vs. tions from Headquarters Place Students Public

Roanoke College at R. A. Smith, Newcomb Wilson

Sept. 27 3:00 Lexington, Va. Grad. Mgr. Hall Stadium $ $1.00
Maryland at H. C. Byrd, Hotel Am. League

Oct. 4 2:30 Washington, D. C. College Park Raleigh Ball Park 2.00 2.00
Wake Forest at R. A. Smith, Newcomb Wilson

Oct. 11 3:00 Lexington, Va. Grad. Mer. Hall Stadium 1.00
Kentucky at S. A. Bowles, Phoenix U..of Ky.

Oct. 18 2:30 Lexington, Ky. U. of Ky. Hotel Field 2.00 2.00
Viv. iat Sports Corp., Virginian Fair

Oct. 25 2:30 Lynchburg, Va. Lynchburg, Va. Hotel | Grounds 1.25 2.00
Virginia at Ellis Brown Hotel Lambeth

Nov. 1 2:00 Charlottesville Charlottesville Gleason Field 2.00 2.00
Citadel at R. A. Smith, Newcomb Wilson

Nov. 8 2:30 Lexington, Va. Grad. Mer. Hall Stadium 1.00
West Virginia H. A. Stansbury, Kanawha Fair

Nov. 15 2:00 at Charleston Morgantown, W. Va. Hotel Grounds 2.00 2.00
N. C. State at Graduate Mer., Sir Walter State

Nov. 27 2:00 Raleigh N. C. State Hotel Field 2.00 2.00
U. of Fla. at Fred Valz, Seminole Municipal

Dec. 6 2:00 Tacksonville Jacksonville Hotel Stadium 2.00 2.00

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 7

The 1924 Generals

By Forrest FLercuer, Director of Physical Education

Frankly, Washington
and Lee faces the 1924

that must be classed as an
‘unknown quantity. Seven
1923 letter men failed to
return this year and seven
gaping holes to be ably
filled is Coach DeHart’s
problem. ‘Then, too, the
1924 schedule is the most
strenuous ever attempted
by a Blue and White
eleven and adds to the
coach’s difficulty.

Nevertheless the — situ-
ation is distinctly more
encouraging than appears at first glance. The 1923
freshman team included a wealth of excellent ma-
terial, while the reserves and substitutes of last year’s
varsity have contributed a score of men who are
bound to be heard from before the season closes.

A survey of the prospects reveals that the Generals’
flanks are in good shape with Thomas and Daves on
duty and several capable men in reserve to be used if
necessary. Budnick, regular guard, is back and will
probably be mated with Holt, a strapping youngster
from last year’s freshmen. Captain “Tex” ‘Tilson
will be one of the tackles and either Stemmons or
Poole will hold down a similar position on the other
side of the line. Hawkins and VanHorn are ayvait-

able at center and both have been going big.

_ In the backfield, Ex-Captain Eddie Cameron, star
plunging fullback, is certain to do the work of a jug-
gernaut. Wilson is displaying good form and good

 

ForREST FLETCHER
Director Physical Education

grid season with a team

sense as a field general but is being hard pressed.
McVay, Rauber, Palmer, Barclay, McMillan, Stearns,
Jefferson, Perry, and several others comprise a group
of good backs from whom a couple of excellent regu-
lars should be picked.

Roanoke College, by the time this is published,

_ will have been met in the opening game in Lexington

on September twenty-seventh and, barring serious
unforeseen accident, defeated. The Maryland game
on October fourth probably will have been a much
closer one. Wake Forest, conquerors of North
Carolina State last year, should be taken into camp
the following Saturday. In the next three games
with Kentucky, V. P. I. and Virginia, the Generals
should acquit themselves very creditably and ought
to have but little trouble with Citadel. Next comes
West Virginia, rated an exceptionally strong team
this season, against whom the Blue and White will
put up the stiffest kind of battle. North Carolina
State should provide a hard scrap on Thanksgiving
Day, and the long, arduous season will end Decem-
ber sixth with a clash with the powerful University
of Florida in Jacksonville.

Dr. James C. Ballagh, ’84, professor in the Whar-
ton School of Commerce of the University of Penn-
sylvania spent a part of his vacation in Lexington.

Rev. L. W. Irwin, ’86, of Williamsburg motored
to Lexington where he was the guest of his brother,
Mr. William P. Irwin.

Judge Henry W. Holt, LL. B., ’88, presided at
the September term of the Rockbridge Circuit Court.
Before adjournment, however, he was called to take
up his duties as a member of the special supreme
court of Virginia.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE Score THAt BEAT VIRGINIA

8 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Davis Alumni Clubs Organized

The Memphis, Tennessee, Alumni Association,
under the- leadership of A. L. Dabney, ’92, and the
Washington, D. C., Alumni Association, under the
leadership of Elwood H. Seal, °13, were the most
prompt to respond to our suggestion for organized
activity in behalf of the candidacy of John W. Davis.

Two very enthusiastic and well-attended meetings
have been held by these two live-wire alumni as-
sociations. ‘The Memphis club elected Mr. Dabney
as president, and Mr. J. S. Edmondson as secretary-
treasurer. Dues were assessed and $106 sent to the
Lexington office for helping to defray publicity ex-
pense.

The Washington club elected Mr. Seal, president,
Mr. G. McP. Minetree, vice-president, Mr. R. K.
Williams, vice-president, Mr. Hunter Osborne, secre-
tary and Mr. Edmund D. Campbell, treasurer. Their
meeting was held at the headquarters of the Demo-
cratic National Committee. A few days later a
luncheon was held by this club at the Ebbitt House
which was addressed by former Senator George E.
Chamberlain, FE. C. R. Humphreys and Dr. Albert
Leavitt of the Washington and Lee Law School.

The New York City Alumni Association was quick
to follow the lead of Washington and Memphis. A
meeting was held at Madison Square Garden on

Thursday, October second. Mr. Davis was the honor
guest at the New York meeting.

All of these clubs have secured valuable publicity
and many interesting newspaper clippings were sent
to the central office indicating the work done.

Your Davis ALUMNI CLUB CONTRIBUTION

Up until the date of publication $503.55 has been
donated by alumni for defraying expenses of pub-
licity material for the alumni activity in behalf of
Mr. Davis.

Of that amount, $208.12 has been expended as in-
dicated below:

5,000 one-cent envelopes ..............-- ..3 64.40
BOO two-cent envelopes ...... 5.6.0.0... 1220
erittee O00. TOWIETS: 1 2. i. i isos sh ecetas os Cee
Beastie Nl (AGVeSBING SS ois oes tate 8.80
RE ten tee oki Gy io ov cases wg e Sis oan 2.30
RES TIEN) 7.052 has sek sisi eke aes 25.00
Printing 5,000 membership cards........... 20.00
$208.12

A full acknowledgment of all donations received
from alumni will be made in the next issue of the
ALUMNI MAGAZINE.

 

 

+

 

Ceammilend pikes 1892

Tow row: A..L. Dabney, Hale Houston, W. C. Morton, Jno. W. Davis, W. A. Collins, H. F. Fitzpatrick, S. R. Hen-
dren, E. L. Green, J. B. Andrew, C. D. Barksdale.
Bottom row: T. H. Davis, C. S. Funkhouser, W. E. Darnall, B. W. Moore, W. R. Vance, W. ap Brown, R. Baum-
gardner, M. H. Arnold.

 

 

 

 

 

“John W. Davis is the strongest man the Demo-
cratic Party has nominated since the Civil War.”
So said Harry St. George Tucker of Virginia, in a
brief talk to a group of sixty Washington and Lee
alumni. ‘The occasion was the alumni luncheon on
August eleventh in Clarksburg, West V irginia, where
we had gathered to hear Davis’ speech of acceptance.

There could be but one response to the call for a
reunion at Clarksburg of the Class of ’92 in honor
of our one-time secretary, whom the nation has
called to places of high distinction and is about to
call to a higher place. To hear John W. Davis’
speech would have justified a much longer journey
than any of us made. Full of lofty sentiments and
sound logic, its force could be more fully appre-
ciated by those who heard it. The tone of earnest-
ness and sincerity that went with every utterance
gave increased weight to the written word. Davis
was superb.

At the luncheon were alumni of many epochs; the
more recent ones predominating somewhat; yet there
was a goodly sprinkling of patriarchs. ‘‘Gov.”
Letcher was there trying to look young, as was Hal-
ley. Two recent graduates named William Mac-
Corkle and Harry Tucker had a lively debate as to
which is the younger alumnus.

EK. G. Smith, Peck, Goble, Waddell, “Little Foot”
Allen, Funkhouser, McElreath (now a politician),

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Clarksburg Reunion

By A. L. Dasnery, ’92

Peyton, Kelley, Taylor, Fisher, Steele and Turpin
were all there with the self-sufficient mien of the day
aiter final exams. Members of the ’92 graduating
classes in Clarksburg were John W. Davis, T. H.
Davis, EK. G. Smith, J. M. Woods, Judge J. C. C.
Back, Herbert Fitzpatrick, Hale Houston and A. L,
Dabney.

At the luncheon we made merry with a college
song or two and several spirited talks. ‘The serenity
of the occasion was briefly ruffled when Peck, with
a small and misguided band of followers, disputed
the original and orthodox Washington and Lee yell.
We did it wrong to please him; but we did it lustily.
You could imagine that chorus at a W. L. U. vs. V
M. I. football game in ancient times.

Thirty-two years ago Washington and Lee delivy-
ered a certain certificate of eligibility to a youth who
is the same that said in Clarksburg August: eleventh:

“These are the hills that cradled me and to which
as boy and man I lifted up my eyes for help. Among
them now lie those who gave me life, and to whose
high precept and example I owe all that I have ever
been and all that I can hope to be.”

Such sentiments come from the heart of a patriot,
a statesman and a man. In the long list of illustrious
men who have gone out from Washington and Lee,
his name has been enrolled.

 

sa P

inne

be ea ear ty

 

10 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

John W. Davis

By R:. G. CamMpBELL, 798

The career of John W. Davis should be known ana
emulated by every school boy in this country. Par-
ents of all political faiths might well point to his
climb, largely due to his own sterling character and
devotion to duty, from the position of the average
American boy in a small town to the unanimous
choice by one of the great political parties as its
nominee for the highest honor in this country if not in
the world.

Clarksburg, West Virginia, the home of Stonewall
Jackson, saw him as a boy in preparatory school gain-
ing the training which was to lay the foundation for
his later attributes of character, manliness, capacity
and fitness. That he was a leader in these early years
is still proudly asserted by those who knew him as a
boy. Old Pantops Academy, near Charlottesville,
Virginia, at which many leaders of later years have
been trained, is responsible for his training prepara-
tory for college. And here too he left an indelible
impress upon the memories of those who. knew him
in these formative years. Mediocrity was never a
trait of his, but laudable ambition, integrity of pur-
pose, manliness, capacity and fitness are the attributes
always associated with his name by his former as-
sociates.

Never losing sight of an early formed purpose to
study law and enter the profession of his father,
John J. Davis, we find him in 1894-95 studying at
Washington and Lee University and laying the
foundation for the specialized study of law. In his
life as a college student we find the boy gradually
maturing, the fixing of the principles of earlier youth,
unswerving devotion to duty, straight thinking, right
conduct, slow to enter a dispute but difficult to de-
feat when once in, scorning subterfuge, bold in the
assertion of the right. ‘The many friends of his col-
lege days remember him as a natural leader, pos-
sessing a personal magnetism which drew friends to
him. If he had enemies, and what positive character
does not, they held him in the highest respect.

Many of our earlier statesmen and lawyers were
first schoolmasters. John W. Davis chose this career
for several years in order to test his knowledge as it
were, or “‘to come to himself’, in the words of an im-
mortal character of similar build, the late President
Woodrow Wilson. As a teacher of youth his ex-
perience was only what was inevitable, beliefs formed
were tested in the school of actual experience, un-
certain points were cleared up by deeper thought,
false views or theories were discarded.

With this preparation the study of law at Washing-

 

Jno. W. Davis, ’92
When a Member of Congress

 

 

ton and Lee must have been intellectual delight under
the professors of his day, the late John Randolph
Tucker and Charles Alfred Graves, now of the Uni-
versity of Virginia Law School, two names which
headed the list of eminent lawyers in Virginia.

With the thoroughness characteristic of his whole
career John W. Davis accepted the position of As-
sociate Professor in the Law School upon graduation
with honors, and proved himself an able instructor
while testing his own knowledge, fixing right princi-
ples, discarding the false, equipping himself and his
students with logical habits of thought, fearless
enunciation of well-founded convictions based upon
profound study.

He refused promotion in the teaching profession
and entered the law firm of his father, Representative
John J. Davis of Clarksburg, West Virginia. With
the training which has been indicated the result was
inevitable. Abandoning a rapidly growing law prac-
tice he was drafted into politics by his party and was
elected to Congress from a district which was con-
sidered solidly safe by the Republicans.

 

(Continued on page 32)

 

ce ee

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 11

The Davis-Alumni Club

By Verson E, Kemp, Executive Secretary

The nomination of John W. Davis for the presi-
dency had long been advocated by Washington and
Lee alumni. Many were working in his behalf at the
Democratic convention. That interest attained a
tremendous growth when his nomination became a
fact. The Davis-Alumni Club of Washington and
Lee men was the result.

Monte J. Goble, 91. of Cincinnati was the most
active proponent of the movement. When told that
the Alumni Association wanted to do everything pos-
sible in Mr. Davis’ behalf but had no funds with
which to work, Mr. Goble secured donations from
other alumni. Dr. T. A. Dickey, ’72, of Middletown,
Ohio, L. W. Turnbull, ’03, of Hazard, Kentucky,
A. W. Shields, 94, of ‘Toledo, Ohio, Rev. J. J. Fix,
93, Bristol, Virginia, Governor W. A. MacCorkle,
77, Charleston, and F. A. Nelson, ’92, Chattanooga,
were the first to join Mr. Goble in making the ini-
tial guarantee.

 

 

 

 

M. J. Gosie, 791

 

 

The Democratic National Committee encouraged
the alumni organization. ‘The activity of Princeton
alumni in behalf of Woodrow Wilson in 1912 and
1916 had shown how valuable such support could be
made. Governor W. A. MacCorkle, ’77, of West
Virginia, was made president of the Washington and
Lee organization, Hon. Newton D. Baker, 94, vice
president, and Monte J. Goble, 91 secretary. It was
felt that the headquarters of the organization should
be in Lexington and Verbon E. Kemp, ’20, Alumni
Secretary, was made Executive Secretary.

All alumni received the first publicity circular of
the Davis Alumni Club. The response was in-
stantaneous. A flood of membership applications
poured in and many offers of aid were turned over
to the national committee. Many alumni sent generous
contributions for defraying future publicity costs.
The Memphis Alumni Association was the first to
organize locally.

Under the leadership of state vice-presidents the
work of the Club is being extended. Local clubs are
being organized. Speakers are being secured for the
National Committee Speakers Bureau and valuable
publicity work is being done. A mailing list of
voters in the more politically doubtful states is being
prepared. Publicity circulars will be mailed con-
tinually. The work will be zealously pushed until
November fourth. :

The only objection made to the formation of such
a Club among alumni was that it might not be fair
to alumni of other political faiths and that it would
be of little effect because the majority of the Wash-
ington and Lee alumni were residents of the “Solid
South’. Results have over-ruled both objections.
Alumi prominent in the Republican party have ex-
pressed their admiration for Mr, Davis and have indi-
cated a desire to vote for him. ‘Through the solid
South we are reaching out to the voters of the East,
North and West.

“Win Five Votes” is the slogan of the Club. Then
each of the five will be urged to win five more. Our
aim is to reach the great mass of thinking voters
through our non-political organization. The alumni
of Washington and Lee are truly well qualified for
bearing witness to the great fitness of Mr. Davis for
the great task to which he has been called. As a
student, professor and trustee of Washington and
Lee he has been proven before them. Such knowl-
edge actively presented by each individual alumnus
will easily win the necessary five votes.

Governor MacCorkle and Mr. Baker, although
actively in the service of the National Committee, are
giving much time to our work through the alumni.
Mr. Goble is an ever-present help in perfecting our
program. The following State Vice-Presidents are
in active charge of the local organizations: Walter
Hood, Alabama; B. B. McCall, Arizona; D. H.
Cantrell, Arkansas; E. T. Coman, California; W. A.

Collins, Colorado; W. R. Vance, Connecticut; W. F.

Kurtz, Delaware: E. H. Seal, District of Columbia ;

 

(Continued on page 34)

P oo wee ea —
a a

12 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

1924 Matriculation

By E. S. Matrincry, Registrar

Washington and
Lee has just started
on what promises to
be her most suc-
cessful session; that
is, if matriculation
figures can be taken
as a forecaster.

The opening was
darkened by but one
thing—the absence of
our able and enthu-
siastic President, who
has always given ev-
ery incoming student,
old or new, a hearty
welcome to our cam-
Registrar pus.

 

E. S. Marrinciy

Last spring the ad-
ministration decided to restrict the number of students
for the session of 1924-25 to 800. However, later on
it was decided that we would not refuse to admit any
men who wished to enter the Science or Law depart-
ments if they could satisfy the entrance requirements.

The University has been growing gradually and
conservatively during recent years as the following
matriculation figures for the past ten years will show:

Sept. 30, 1915 495
Sept. 30, 1916 503
Sept. 30, 1917 370
Sept. 30, 1918 499
Sept. 30, 1919 575
Sept. 30, 1920 679
Sept. 30, 1921 735
Sept. 30, 1922 739
Sept. 30, 1923 791
Sept. 30, 1924 828

The years 1917 and 1918 were lower than the two
previous ones. This was caused by the war. How-
ever, we might say that our increased numbers dur-
ing the years since 1918 should be accredited to the
war, too, as there has been an increased turning to-
ward education in the United States since the World
War.

The total number of students matriculated on
September thirtieth of this year, as noted above, was
&23. Of this number, 495 are old students, men who
have attended Waslineton and Lee one or more
years. The other 328 are new students, men who
have matriculated for the first time.

These students are registered as follows:

Pe eis gig OW aire. ica hn hus 460
Commerce and Administration .............. 225
I ee a toe TL an Ys anaes) 53
Logs fet Cee PE, CO ae 85
Me RO OTe ima ka saa 823

The number of students registered in the Academic,
Commerce, and Science departments averages favor-
ably with the figures of last year.

Due to the raising of the entrance requirement for
the Law School, effective September, 1923, to two
years of college work, the total number of students
registered in that department remains low; however,
the number of new men is in excess of the number
who entered for the first time in September, 1923.
Of the 85 men registered in the Law School, 40 are
new students. The number of new students who
registered in September, 1923, was 28. If the Law
School continues to grow at this rate the numbers will
reach our fondest expectations.

Washington and Lee is experiencing a healthy, nor-
mal growth which, if watched carefully and guarded
zealously, will enable her officers and faculty to
continue to render the same personal, human,

“sympathetic service to her students that has marked

her success in the past.

——

 

Notes Concerning New York Alumni

By Dr. W. E. Dot.

John Glenn, ’79, has fulfilled the promises of his
youth. I think that all who knew him at Washing-
ton and Lee felt that he would make a success of his
life. He is the Director of the great Sage Founda-
tion.

John P. East, ’88, is another alumnus in New York
of whom his Alma Mater may feel proud, a suc-
cessful attorney, late Governor of “The Virginians”,
prominent in University of Virginia affairs, one of
the most popular men in New York.

Henry G. Hawn, ’84, entertained the Virginians
last winter by his artistic readings. Full of sparkl-
ing wit, he is a welcome companion in whatever cir-
cle he may be drawn.

Walter McCorkle, ’78, another W. and L. alumnus
with an army of acquaintances and friends in New
York, former Governor of the Virginians and also
President of the great Southern Society of New
York. He is long and favorably known by the com-
munity and loved by many friends.

 

(Continued on page 29)

 

 

 

iin ;
tah alla in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 13

THE WASHINGTON AND LEE SWING

By THE AUTHOR—THORNTON W. ALLEN, B.A., 710.

It will be good news te Washington and Lee alumni
to know that the popular football song of our Alma
Mater, the Washington and Lee Swing, has now
spread its melodic wings over the entire country and
is being sung, played and danced to in every impor-
tant city from coast to coast. Over fifty of the best
known universities and schools have adopted the
melody, including such widely separated ones as the
University of Arizona, University of Florida, Tu-
lane University and Swarthmore College. Bands and
orchestras everywhere are playing it and the phono-
graph records and player-piano rolls are equally
popular.

While to M. W. Sheafe goes the credit for the ti-
tle and a few bars of the music, The Swing, as it is
played and sung today, is largely my own work. I
was particularly anxious to write a song that would
be truly our own and Clarence A. Robins, who was
still in college at the time, consented to write words
for my new melody. Through the band and or-
chestra it grew in popularity and toward the end of
the year 1910 the first published edition was placed
on sale.

For several years after leaving Washington and
Lee I was obliged to neglect The Swing entirely, for
lack of time and money. Later, however, at the in-
sistence of numerous friends, and with their help, I
was able to publish a new edition and spent consid-
erable money to popularize it outside of Lexington.
Now, almost ten years later, it is actually achieving
the national popularity for which I had hoped.

It will interest Washington and Lee alumni to
know that thousands of enthusiastic John W. Davis
supporters throughout the country are using the
Swing melody with appropriate words as a pre-elec-
tion song.

The popularity of The Swing encouraged me to
write some of the music for what I believe was the
initial production of W. and L,.’s first dramatic club.
These three songs, “My Little Dixie Queen,” “Only
You,” and “A Girl to Call Your Own,” were re-pub-
lished later and enjoyed an excellent sale.

Every college and school should boast at least one
song of its very own. With this idea in mind, I have
made a specialty of college songs, and have written,
arranged or published the Alma Mater or football
song of nearly a dozen universities. At present I am
undertaking a country-wide investigation regarding
the question of copyright infringement but I feel

 

(Continued on page 26)

ALBERT STEVES, JUNIOR, ’06, REALIZES
AMBITION

Fitteen years ago “Kid” Steves set sail along the
lines of an ambition conceived within his own mind.
His father, Albert. Steves, Senior, ’77, and Ernest
Steves, ’78, supported his idea, which was to estab-
lish a great millworking and sash and door jobbing
institution in his home state of Texas. It began with
San Antonio but his idea was to eventually build an
institution under his management to cover the entire
Texas territory. :

First he built the big mill work plant; following his
own theories and plans in so doing, stocked the
jobbing plant and began doing business in south-
western Texas. He incorporated into the operation
of this business personal characteristics which he
possesses in a most unusual degree. He became re-
puted as a worker of the most direct and tireless type,
a thinker of unusual power possessed of a great
vision as to business service. He had a will to do that
few young men know and an integrity and straight-
forwardness that no man has ever doubted. Thus
“Kid” Steves took up the work of building a great
industrial and commercial organization.

On September first, just eleven years after he
started the big plant in San Antonio his ambition was
realized to a superlative degree, when the Steves
Sash and Door Company took over in its entirety the
Southern Sash and Door Company of Houston,
bought out the R. A. Toombs Sash and Door Com-
pany of Fort Worth with its big plants at Fort Worth
and Wichita Falls, Texas, and opened for business a

_ big production plant, also at Wichita Falls, which he

had had under construction for some time past, which
plant will manufacture all glazed doors, windows,
etc., for the entire Steves organization to distribute.

This mammoth organization under the direction of

Mr. Steves is new prepared to serve every spot in —

Texas, Oklahoma, New Mexico and Louisiana in
that line of business.

Mr. Steves is the only member of his family active
in the new concern, although his father, Albert
Steves, Senior, is president of the corporation; his
uncle, Ernest Steves, is treasurer, and Walter Steves,
’11, is secretary. Albert Steves, Junior, is vice presi-
dent and general manager.

Soon after leaving college Mr. Steves associated

with him his friend, R. R. Witt, ’13, who is also

prominent in the new combination which Mr. Steves
has effected.

As an alumnus of Washington and Lee, Mr. Steves
has always been loyal and enthusiastic. It is with
pleasure that the Alumni, Incorporated, received news
of his marked success in his chosen field.

14 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

| Editorial

Alumni Publications |

The ALUMNI MAGAZINE is issued in response to an
often expressed demand by alumni. We want to
make it a real news medium between the University
and the alumni, and among the ‘alumni themselves.
The magazine will be dependent upon alumni for
news contributions about themselves and about other
alumni in their localities. Letters and items for pub-
lication are solicited.

Alumni dues have been discontinued and _ the
ALUMNI MaGazINE must pay for itself. The sub-
scription price is two dollars per year. It will appear
bi-monthly during the school year.

The ‘Alumni Directory and Service Record is a
necessity. Informative biographical material must be
furnished by alumni. A prompt return of question-
naires properly filled in will speed up publication and
reduce expense. The task is a large one. The alumni
are asked to co-operate in every possible way to
facilitate the collection of material. The directory
will be off the press by May fifteenth. It also must
pay for itself.

John W. Davis, ’92

We believe that John W. Davis will be elected
president of the United States. He is eminently
qualified. He has all the attributes of a president.
He has a spotless record. He has been proven.

Mr. Davis is not a politician. He did not seek the
office for which he was nominated.

As a student, former professor and trustee of
Washington and Lee he deserves the support of
every alumnus. ;

We believe that thinking citizens will not overlook
such an opportunity to place such a CHARACTER
at the head of our government.

ee

 

Drives

Drives are worn out. Campaigns are unpopular.
Yet giving remains a not unpleasant duty.

Sound business men include giving in their annual
budget. ‘They give a proportionate amount of their
income to worth while causes periodically. Philan-
thropy is handled in a business way.

An Alumni Chest will eliminate drives from Wash-
ington and Lee.

Periodical payments on present endowment pledges
into a chest will systematize your giving and lessen
its burden.

Regular donations in nominal amounts for future
Washington and Lee projects paid through the
Alumni Association into an ALUMNI CHEST as a
part of the giving budget of every alumnus will take
care of all future needs.

Recognition

The accident suffered: by Dr. Smith caused a na-
tion-wide concern. Messages of sympathy and_in-
quiry came to Washington and Lee from every sec- -
tion of the county. Editorial pens were quick to
voice the public sorrow. ‘The Associated Press car-
ried daily notices of his condition. His recovery has
brought a greater number of appreciative expressions.

The extent of the nation-wide recognition of Dr.
Smith’s marked ability cannot be measured even by
these testimonials. However, they bear witness to
the breadth of his reach and the scope of his activities
in behalf of Washington and Lee.

A Creed

I believe in Washington and Lee, her mis-
sion and great historic usefulness. I believe
in the ideals which gave her birth and the tra-
ditions that actuate her growth.

I believe in her trustees and administrative
officers. I am confident of their ability and
eminent fitness. I believe in her faculty and
student body who as active builders of Wash-
ington and Lee history are upholding her
standards of instruction and honor.

I believe in her alumni because of ‘their
thorough preparation and consequent. fitness.
I cherish their friendship and share with them
rich memories of college days.

I believe that the function of an alumnus is
to aid the advancement of his Alma Mater,
promote her welfare and spread her fame.

The Team

The Generals played the Roanoke College Game,
by no means a “set up’, in mid-season form. ‘There
was no fumbling or loose playing. Four new men
from last year’s Freshman team, led by Palmer, clear
headed broken-field runner and dashing half-back,
made a most encouraging showing. Cameron looked
even better than he did last year. He was ably sub-
stituted by Dawson who led the team in ground
gained. |

There is a lack of substitutes in the line and the
Generals are dependent upon the first string linesmen
being able to go through the season without injury.
If anything the team is in too good condition for this
time of year. But under the keen eye of “Jimmy”
DeHart the big team should have a most successful
year.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 15

“Dick” Daniel, ’01

AN EprrorRIAL—By

Richard P. Daniel of Jacksonville, Florida, is an
alumnus of two colleges, Sewanee—now the Univer-
sity of the South, and Washington and Lee.

He was at Washington and Lee only a year and a
half and did not receive a degree.

He is a lawyer with a practice that keeps him busy.

He is married and has three children.

He has been the chairman of numerous local drives
and campaigns.

He was a Captain, Military Intelligence Division,
General Staff, during the World War.

He is the Senior lay officer of a church which has
recently built a large and expensive plant.

He is Chairman of the County Welfare Board.
which he helped create by legislative action.

He is not rich.

He is not tied to Washington and Lee by close
bonds of sentiment.

In short, he has every excuse that has been offered
by an alumnus for not aiding Washington and Lee
projects.

When I went to Jacksonville last February to
launch the public campaign for the Lee Memorial
School of Journalism Mr. Daniel was “putting over”
a Sewanee Glee Club concert. ‘The largest theater in
Jacksonville had to be filled and twenty-four song-
sters housed and entertained.

The School of Journalism campaign was launched
at the same time under the able leadership of R. A.
Baker, 96. Dr. Smith filled a number of speaking
engagements and prepared the way for the solicitors.
Mr. Daniel did not miss a campaign luncheon or
meeting. He walked the streets and called .at busi-
ness offices with Mr. Baker. Close friends and clients
were not excused. He took refusals and abrupt dis-
missals.

I said that Mr. Daniel was not tied to Washington
and Lee by close bonds of sentiment. However. he
realizes the great worth of Washington and Lee.
He saw the possibilities of the revival of Ceneral
Lee’s School of Journalism. To serve merit was
duty.

He did not say what ought to be done. He did it.
His service was unqualified. There was no criticism
of Washington and Lee for past mistakes, fancied or
real. He gave money as well as service. In addition
he extended to my associate, “Gus” Bryan, ’23, all of
those personal courtesies which “warm the soul and
endear the heart.”

The Lee Memorial School of Journalism campaign
in Jacksonville, like the Sewanee Glee Club concert,
Was a great success.

VERBON E. Kemp

 

 

 

 

R. P. DanireEt, ’01

 

 

But his work did not stop with the close of the
campaign. During the following month we received
checks and pledges totaling $650 which were col-
lected by Mr. Daniel at spare intervals.

“Dick” Daniel is typical of many other alumni
who have served Washington and Lee well. I might
write in similar vein of “Bob” Baker, 96. Kenneth
McKay, ’04, C. R. Pilkington, ’04, John R. Tucker,
‘10, Maynard Smith, ’13, and a score of others.

The prosperity and progress of Washington and
Lee is dependent upon the number of “Dick” Dan-
iels among her alumni.

Many have the desire and willingness to serve but
have not been directed.

Many have not awakened to alumni responsibility.

 

Dr. Howerton Lost to Faculty by Death.

The many alumni who were students under Prof.
James Robert Howerton, head of the Department
of Philosophy, M. A., D. D., LL. D., will regret to
learn of his death in June, after an illness of several
months. Dr. Howerton had been a member of the
University faculty since 1907 and was a broad and
deep thinker who left the imprint of his remarkable
personality on every student with whom he came in
contact,

Hon. Lucian H. Cocke
Newly elected Rector of the Board of Trustees

 

 

 

 

J. R. Caskie, 06 and Dr. George Bolling Lee, ’93,
were elected by the Board of Trustees at their June
session to fill vacancies in their body created by the
death of two other beloved alumni. At that meeting
the resignation of Hon. William A. Anderson as
Rector of the Board was accepted at his earnest re-
quest and Hon. Lucian Cocke, ’77, of Roanoke was
elected to that position. Major Anderson retains
his membership on the Board.

“Jimmy” Caskie was elected by the Washington
and Lee Board of Trustees to fill the vacancy created
by the death of Hon. F. Sydnor Kirkpatrick.

Mr. Caskie received his A. B. degree from Wash-
ington and Lee in 1906. After teaching in the Lynch-
burg High School for one year he returned to Wash-
ington and Lee and was graduated from the law
school in 1909. He is a member of the Delta Tau Delta
Fraternity and a charter member of the Phi Delta
Phi Legal Fraternity at Washington and Lee.

Since graduation Mr. Caskie has manifested an
active interest in Washington and Lee affairs. He
has always been a staunch supporter of the progressive
program undertaken by the Board of Trustees during
the past ten years. He is also a member of the Board
of Trustees of the Alumni Incorporated.

During the war Mr. Caskie served a year in

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

LEQ Ayan 17

yo yt A
a he

‘Changes on the Board of Trustees

France. He entered the Y. M. C. A. service but was
transferred to the French “Foyer des soldat” work.
After the armistice he was assigned to make a sur-
vey for athletic work and instruction in two French
provinces.

As a member of the governing body of his Alma
Mater, Mr. Caskie fills the place once occupied by his
great grandfather, Colonel Thomas Massie, who was
a member of General Washington’s staff during the
Revolutionary War and trustee of Washington Col-
lege 1826-42.

Mr. Lucian H. Cocke needs no introduction to
Washington and Lee alumni. He received his A. B.
from Washington and Lee in 1878 and has served on
the Board of Trustees since 1898.

After graduating at Washington and Lee he re-
ceived his LL. B. from the University of Virginia
in 1881 and entered the practice of law at Roanoke,
Virginia. Since that time he has served as General
Attorney for the Norfolk and Western Railway, Vice
President of the National Exchange Bank and of the
Southwestern Virginia Trust Company at Roanoke.
He was Mayor of Roanoke for two years and City
Solicitor for four years.

 

(Continued on next page)

 

 

 

 

 

 

James R. Casxrg, ’06

—

 

 

Dr. Geo. Bottinc Ler, 93

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGTON & LEE UNIVERSITY

LEXINGTON,

VA.

i THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

The Y. M. C. A.

~ By. Kart, Zerross, S ecretary
B.A., Kentucky, 1916, M.A., Vanderbilt, 1921

One of the characteristics of the Washington and
Lee Young Men’s Christian Association is student
initiative. For the present year, the number of com-
mittees has been increased, and attempts are being
made to enlist a participation of a wider range of
students. It is recognized that mere activity. may not
be indicative of depth of character, but that activity
must result from an inner conviction. It is not the
desire of the association to strengthen its own pres-
tige on the campus. It would not be an end in itself,
but as a result of co-operative effort, with every
available force for good, it is hoped that Christian
influence may come to challenge the attention and
secure the following of an increasing number of stu-
dents.

 

 

CHANGES ON THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES
(Continued from preceding page)

He is a Phi Beta Kappa and a member of the Beta
Theta Pi Fraternity.

Mr. Cocke is-the fourteenth Rector of the Board
since the election of ‘he Honorable William Graham
in 1782. Other Rectors of the Board have been:

Peet Gy... Campbell .2. 327.0... |. 8. 1797-1799
hoe Banter 4 ke 1799-1829
Poe Matera ee ek. 1830-1834
Wey, Wee ee ee he. 1834-1836
We CT a bea 1836-1848
ee a ee ee ee 1848-1861
Hon J. W. Brokenbrough ... 1865-1872
DUNO UE ee pe 1872-1878
ton, Francis. [. Anderson ............ 1879-1887
Judge William McLaughlin ............ 1888-1899
Rev. Givens B, Strickler .............. 1899-1913
Pie, Ve A Mecerson «ee. 1913-1924

Dr. George Bolling Lee, 93, was elected to the
Board of Trustees to fill a vacancy created by the
death of Colonel R. FE. Lee, Junior. He graduated
from Washington and Lee in 1893 with the degree of
Bachelor of Arts; and from Bellevue Medical Col-
lege in New York he received his M.D. in 1896.
He was assistant surgeon for several years in the
office of Dr. W. Gill Wylie, New York City, whose
specialty was abdominal surgery. Since that time
Dr. Lee has been an exceptionally successful practi-
tioner of medicine in New York City. He was mar-
ried in 1918 to Miss Helen Keeney of San Francisco.
They have one daughter. — |

The association recognizes the difficult task of
reaching, in a real way, the whole student body. For
this reason, there is insistence that the task may only
be accomplished by intelligent co-operation of stu-
dents, faculty and community. The hope is that the
leaders of the association may not increase in num-
bers without growing in depth of Christian expe-
rience. Such a power must necessarily widen the
circle of influence until felt in all sections of the stu-
dent body.

As long as the Y. M. C. A. is considered a campus
activity, no real progress will be made. It should be
more nearly a force permeating all activities with
Christian friendship. Religious meetings will be
held on the campus at intervals of about two weeks,
addressed by local speakers drawn from faculty,

community and the student body as well as will out-

side speakers be presented. Mr. George Irving who
lead so acceptably last year’s evangelistic series, may
be followed this year by Fred B. Smith.

Dr. Bruce Curry held a local bible study institute
early in October which introduced the annual ten
week bible discussion group period. These groups
are conducted in various social groupings on the
campus. The enrollment in the groups of last year
exceeded 300, with 20 leaders. Service activities in
the community are limited. At the beginning of the
year new students were given aid in securing room-
ing houses, an attractive handbook of information
was distributed and the “Annual College Night” was
staged. Plans have been made to serve the students
through appropriate socials, a musical course, hikes,
etc. Other usual forms of activity will continue to
be carried on. |

Andy Roy, of Pittsburgh, is the student president
of the Association. Mr. Roy is also Chairman of
the Southern Regional Council and Vice-Chairman
of the National Council. Associated with him as of-
ficers are John Leggate, Junior, Pittsburgh, Vice-
President; Tom Moore, Lexington, Secretary, and
John Mayhew, Roanoke, Treasurer. :

Professor R. N. Latture is Chairman of the Ad-
visory Board. Of the nine members of the board,
Professor Latture, 08, Dr. Farrar, ’95, Dr. William
Brown, °14, and Mr. Mattingly were active members
during their student days. The Ladies Auxiliary,
drawing membership from the wives of faculty
members and ladies of the town, renders valuable
service throughout the year. Mrs. R. H. Tucker, the
retiring president of this year, has served for two
sessions. She has been succeeded by Mrs. L. J.
Desha.

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 19

New Faculty Members

H. Gray Funkhouser, B. A., 1921, has returned to
his Alma Mater as associate professor of mathema-
tics during the absence of Professor Paxton.

After leaving Washington and Lee he taught at
Shenandoah Collegiate Institute for a year and in
the Mathematics Department of the Danville Military
Institute for another year.

Last year was spent in studying and teaching ma-
thematics at Columbia University where he received
his master’s degree in June.

Gray comes from Dayton, Virginia.

—

 

Dr. J. O. Lofberg succeeds Dr. J. Kern as full pro-
fessor of ancient languages. Dr. Kern was retired
last June. Dr. Lofberg graduated at Stetson Uni-
versity and received his doctor’s degree at the Uni-
versity of Chicago. He was adjunct professor of
Greek at the University of Texas until 1922 and
came to Washington and Lee from Queen’s Uni-
versity at Kingston, Canada, where he had been as-
sociate professor of classics since that time.

Professor EK. R. Clapp, A. B., Stanford, Univer-
sity, M. A., Harvard University, is now assisting Dr.
Shannon in the Department of English.

 

ee

 

Dr. S$. P. Neff who in June was elected associate
professor of English came to Lexington direct from
Paris, France, where he had been studying for the
past year.

———

Professor Cary Gamble of Wilson, North Carolina,
has taken up his duties as assistant professor of

physics. He is a B. A. from Alabama Polytechnic
Institute and comes to Washington and Lee from the
research department of the General Electric Com-

pany.

Dr. Albert Leavitt has succeeded Dr. J. R. Long,
resigned, in the Law School. Dr. Leavitt is a
graduate of Columbia and Harvard Universities and
taught Philosophy at Columbia and Colgate. Later
he was assistant professor of law at George Washing-
ton University and was full professor of law at the
University of North Dakota. He was with the legal
department of the Standard Oil Company at Calcutta,
India, and under the administration of President
Wilson he was assistant to the Attorney General of
the United States. Dr. Leavitt comes to Washing-
ton and Lee from Washington, D. C., where he was
with the War Transactions Section of the Depart-
ment of Justice.

 

 

 

After attending the Clarksburg notification cere-
monies on August eleventh, Mr. Rees Turpin, ’92,
drove to Lexington where he spent several days with
Professor Hale Houston, also of 792.

 

Dr. D. Allan Penick, 94, of Nicholasville, Ken-
tucky, was a guest at the home of his brother, Mr.
Paul M. Penick, during August.

 

Mr. William Houston, 96, of New York gave a
delightful vocal concert while he was visiting his
brother, Professor Hale Houston, 92, in Lexington
during the summer.

 

 

 

Dr. S. P. NEFF

H. Gray FUNKHOUSER, ’21

AES

Dr. J. O. Lorserc

 

20 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE NEW BETA HOUSE

By W. G. Saez, Juntor, ’24

A rather significant addition to the Washington
and Lee campus in a material way is the new home
of the Washington and Lee chapter of Beta Theta
Pi, the first fraternity house to be built on the
grounds proper of the University.

Although a number of fraternities have from time
to time considered the idea of building on the college
property the Betas actually started matters with the
construction of a new $31,000 home on the east side
of Jefferson Street opposite the Memorial Gateway
to the University campus proper.

The lot has been leased to the local Beta chapter
on a ninety-nine year term, and their path has been
made easier in the building itself by the liberal con-
sideration of the University Board of Trustees and
the co-operation of the University administration. _

When plans first began to take definite shape and
the fraternity was ready to start building, in order
that there might be no possibility of mis-step and re-
gret later as to the exact location and position of the
house, Mr. Horace Peaslee, Park Architect, of
Washington, D. C., was called in and submitted a
plan for the arrangement of the entire proposed fra-
ternity square. The plans for the building of the
Beta Theta Pi house were drawn by Mr. Stuart H.
Edmonds, architect of Winchester, Virginia. The
building is being done by the local construction firm
of Pruett and Coffey.

The new Beta house, when completed, will be four
stories, including the basement, with columns from
the first floor to the third. It will have a frontage
of sixty-five feet on Jefferson Street and a depth of
thirty-nine feet. A ten foot brick wall with double
entrance will further ornament the front. The inside
arrangements include rooms and dining-room ac-
commodating thirty-five men, apartments for a
house matron, a chapter hall in the basement, and a
sleeping porch in the rear. The entire building will
be arranged according to the most modern ideas for
construction of fraternity homes, adapted to the
Colonial style of architecture.

Mr. W. R. Burton, "17, of New York City, was in
Lexington for a few days while on his wedding trip.

Mr. Edwin B. Shultz, ’16, former “Y” Secretary
spent the summer in Europe. On his return, he
stopped in Lexington for a short visit with friends
and then left for Lawrence, Kansas, where he fills
the position of Y. M. C. A. secretary at the Uni-
versity of Kansas.

FRATERNITY HOUSES

Until two years ago the Phi Kappa Sigma Fra-
ternity was the only fraternity on the campus to own
their own home. Fraternity alumni, however, are
waking up to the necessity of having a permanent
location for their Chapters.

The Alpha Chi Rho Fraternity purchased the F.
C. Davis house, 56 West Washington Street, on Sep-
tember 1, 1922, at a cost of $10,000. They were
soon followed by the Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity
which purchased the handsome gray stone Nelson
house, 14 Preston Street, for $18,000.

The next year the Delta Tau Delta’s bought the
Patton house, 17 Lee Avenue for $14,000, and the Pi
Kappa Alpha’s purchased the Kinnear House, 7
Jackson Avenue, for $12,000.

This year the Kappa Sigma’s have taken possession.
of their new home on South Main Street which they |
have purchased from Mr. John Champ for $15,000. .

The Beta Theta Pi Fraternity has added new im-
petus to the move toward fraternity house acquisi-
tions by building a new four-story house on Jefferson
Street, just outside Memorial Gateway. The Beta |
house is the first unit in the proposed fraternity house
square on the University property lying between
Main and Jefferson Streets and east of Henry Street.

It is rumored that the Phi Kappa Sigma’s will
soon start building in the new fraternity square, thus
giving up their old location at the corner of Lee and
Washington Streets. Other fraternities on the
campus have been accumulating house funds for
years and many expect to build or purchase houses
within the coming year.

This movement should commend itself to all fra-
ternity alumni. Beautiful and well-appointed fra-
ternity houses are an asset to any campus and under
proper regulation go a long way toward solving the
housing problem which has existed at Washington
and Lee for several years.

 

Dr. LeRoy Barrett, ’97, Professor of Latin at
Trinity College, accompanied by Mrs. Barrett, spent
part of his vacation in Lexington.

Colonel Edwin P. Bledsoe, 700, and Mrs. Bledsoe,
with their two sons, motored to Lexington from
Little Rock, Arkansas, where they spent some time
with Mrs. R. Barton McCrum.

Mr. and Mrs. Lynwood R. Holmes, ’00, were
visitors at the home of Mr. Henry Boley in Lexing-
ton. Mr. Holmes is now with the Furness-Withy
Company of Philadelphia.

Dr. William Allan, ’02, and Mrs. Allan, accom-
panied by their children, were guests.of the Misses
Penick on Letcher Avenue, Lexington.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 21

Chemistry Building Completed

By Dr. R. W. Dickey, 710

The new Chemistry Building, located on the site of
the old gymnasium, will be ready for occupancy about
November fifteenth. At that time the Department of
Electrical Engineering will move into the basement
floor. ‘The remaining three floors will be occupied by
the Department of Chemistry as fast as the laboratory
equipment can be installed.

The building was designed by Flournoy and
Flournoy of Washington, D. C., working in co-
operation with the university building commission.
The design is somewhat of a departure from that of
the other buildings. The same type of architecture
has been used but the structure is fire-proof through-
out and is such as to reduce the repair and main-
tenance expense to a minimum. ‘The outside walls
are built of red brick and trimmed with Indiana
limestone. The inside walls and partitions are of
white brick. A reinforced concrete structure resting
on solid rock carries the weight of the floors and roof.
All floors are reinforced concrete poured so as to pre-
sent a smooth concrete ceiling beneath. The stairs
are constructed of steel and concrete and are se-

 

 

 

 

Dr. R. W. Dickey, 10
Supt. Construction New Chemical Building

curely anchored to the reinforced structure. High
ceilings and large window openings equipped with
steel sash provide good natural ventilation and light.

The mechanical equipment conforms to the most
modern practice. The building is supplied with hot-
water heat from the central heating plant and steam
for experimental purposes. All laboratory and class
rooms are kept free from gases by a system of flues
and suction fans. The flues are built into the walls
and extend from the individual rooms to the attic
floor, where they are carried to the main vent stacks
on the roof. The suction fans are operated by elec-
tric motors located on the attic floor and controlled
by switches in the rooms below. The entire drainage
system for the laboratories is constructed of a special
acid-proof iron. Water, gas, high and low pressure
steam are provided where needed. All pipes are run
exposed on the ceiling for’easy access if repairs are
necessary. Alternating current power for lighting
and operating the fan motors is supplied by the local
power company through a concealed conduit system
and direct current power for experimental purposes
is provided by a large storage battery located in the
basement. A hand-lift elevator has been installed to
handle the supplies required by the laboratories.

The building will accomodate approximately two
hundred and fifty students in Chemistry and seventy-
five students in Electrical Engineering. Its comple-
tion will relieve to some extent the present congestion
in the class rooms not only by providing new class
rooms and laboratories but by making available for
other departments the space in Washington College
Building now occupied by the Department of Chemis-
try.

This building is the first of a group for the com-
plete development of the northeast end of the campus.

 

 

3 %

 

22 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Where Your Money Goes

By Paut M. Penick, 96, Treasurer, Washington and Lee.

Our Alumni Sec-
retary has asked me
to make a_ brief
statement of the fi-
nances of our insti-
tution:

We have two main
sources of income,
one from the _ fees
paid by the students,
and the other from
the interest on our
invested endowment
funds.

The total income
for our last fiscal
: year (which closed

with April thirtieth),
available for operating expenses, was $269,970. Of
this amount, $165,399 came from the students and
$104,570 from invested endowment funds and rentals
of real estate. These figures do not include gifts to
our endowment fund or the proceeds of bonds col-
lected during the year and reinvested.

The total amount paid out for all operating ex-
penses during the year was $262,368; this shows a
surplus of operating income over expenses of $7,602.
Inasmuch as there is no charge for depreciation or
obsolescence of our buildings in the above figures, it
is apparent that we are running en a very close mar-
gin.

The University was simply a collecting agent for
a considerable part of the amount which was paid to
it by students. This is the case with the campus tax,
all of which is paid to the Athletic Association and
to the Y. M. C. A. This also applies to laboratory
fees, all of which (and more) are used in buying the
supplies and materials for the use of the students
who pay these fees.

The University spent on each student last year
$159.60 more than the average amount paid the Uni-
versity by each student.

A comparison of our balance sheet figures of the
past year with those of ten years ago will probably
give a_ better idea of the growth of the institution
than anything else:

 

Paut M. Penick, 96

1914 1924
UE SAGMUNED |. ctebateesa ys Sul see ocd $1,422,782 $2,806,244
Productive endowment .....cc.ceeeeeeeeee 877,049 1,310,017
NN is acl sevens sjocadl idole. 101,271 269,970
INGEMDEF OF SEUGERES . ...ccccccccssccpecsesesoeces 466 826

It will be seen from the above figures that the as-
sets of the University have almost doubled, the in-
come more than doubled, and the student body in-
creased by 75% within the last ten years.

The principal new buildings erected within the
ten-year period are the Doremus Memorial Gymna-
sium which cost in round numbers $100,000, but
could not be duplicated now for twice this; the Gra-
ham Dormitory which was built at a cost of $115,000;
the stadium and enlargement of the athletic field
which cost $56,000; and the chemistry building which
is now in the course of construction. This building
will cost about $150,000, and will be the best build-
ing we will have on the campus.

One great advantage of our endowment campaign
which is not reflected in our balance sheet is in the
advertising the University has had. Never before in
its history has the University been so well adver-
tised, and never before have our alumni expressed
so much interest in the institution, and the public
knows more about Washington and Lee and rates it
higher than ever before.

We can grow now just as rapidly as our equip-
ment and facilities can be expanded to take care of
more students.

Mr. Thomas McA. Stubbs, ’20, with his bride,
drove over to Lexington from Natural Bridge where
they spent part of their honeymoon.

Dr. Martin R. Turnbull, ’06, of Richmond and his
family were in Lexington for a short time at the
home of Mrs. Harvey C. Wise on Jackson Avenue.

Mr. Sorsby Jemison, ’09, drove up one day from
Roanoke where he was visiting. Mr. Jemison is with
the Young and Vann Supply Company of Birming-
ham. :

Hon. Newton D. Baker, 94, spent one morning
during the month of August visiting his Alma Mater.
Accompanied by his family, Mr. Baker made a short
vacation tour through the Shenandoah Valley,
stopping over in Lexington.

Dr. and Mrs. George West Diehl, ’07, of Athens,
West Virginia, passed through Lexington on an auto
trip. They had been to Toronto, Canada. Dr. Diehl

is president of Concord State Teachers’ College at
Athens.

Mr. Irving A. Downey, ’08, accompanied his son
to Lexington during the first week in September,
when the latter entered V. M. I,

nical

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 23

Wilson Field --- The Stadium

3y C. S. Grascow, 711

If you have not seen Wilson Field within the past
four years you would not be able to recognize it now.
Last spring the new steel stadium was built. It is
432 feet long and has seating capacity of 3,000. It
would be more correct to say the first unit of the
steel stadium was completed, for the stadium is so
planned and located that it can be enlarged as the de-
mand increases and funds are available.

 

 

 

The modern policy of colleges and universities in
this section is to play all games either at home or on
opponent’s grounds, and it was to meet this that large
improvements were found necessary. Along with
the work on the stadium, the size of Wilson Field
has been doubled. ‘Io complete the present field there
still remains much to be done: _ tile drainage system
to be installed under the whole field, and then proper
grading. It is estimated that this will cost at. least
$10,000.

The Athletic Association has actually expended
$43,000 within the last four years on the field and
stadium, and the University has also spent a consid-
erable sum in addition to this. At present the Ath-
letic Association owes $12,000 for these permanent
improvements. ‘This sum does not include the cost
of grading and drainage mentioned above.

If you were at Washington and Lee between the
years 1739 and 1919 you are wondering how the Ath-
letic Association has accomplished this extensive
program of improvement. ‘This question is easily
answered. R. A. Smith is Graduate Manager of
Athletics, and his department is conducted in a thor-
oughly business-like way. He devotes his entire time
to the various branches of athletics. But even
“Dick” Smith would not have been able to accom-
plish so much were it not for the active and gracious
co-operation his department received from the Uni-
versity through Mr. Forrest Fletcher, Director of the
Department of Physical Education. In the actual
work of enlarging Wilson Field and constructing the
stadium, Professor Hale Houston rendered invalu-
able service. ‘To have successfully carried through
this big program of improvement has taken an equal
amount of nerve and hard work, and we are all in-
debted to three men for it—Smith, Fletcher and
Houston.

 

 

 

 

 

THE STADIUM \

To date wee tN

 

a a a ee ie ° ~ _*

 

 

'” PROPOSED COMPLETED
|| ~STADIUM~

WASHINGTON & LEFF
| UNIVERSITY
il, 1925

 

 

 

THe Staptum
Ultimately

24 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

From the Letters of Kiffin Rockwell, °| |

The father of Victor Chapman, famous ace of the
Lafayette Escadrille wrote in his “Memoir”:

“Of all the men that Victor met in the aviation
corps Kiffin Rockwell was the dearest to him. He
envied Rockwell for having been in the great charge
made by the Legion in May; and worshipped Rock-

well’s courage and romantic spirit. When Rockwell .

fell, soon after Victor’s death, I felt as if Victor’s
soul was but a little way above Kiffin’s head, and
‘stayed for him to keep him company’.”

Many of Kiffin Rockwell’s letters have been pub-
lished in magazines and newspapers since the war.
We take the liberty of quoting the following from
Ex Libris of October, 1923, the monthly journal pub-
lished by the American Library in Paris:

“Dear Paul: At last I have a little something to
tell you. This morning I went out over the lines to
make a little tour. I was somewhat the other side of
our lines, when my motor began to miss a bit. I
turned around to go to a camp near the lines.

“Just as I started ahead for there, I saw a boche
machine about seven hundred metres beneath me,
and a little inside our lines. I immediately reduced
my motor, and dived for him. He saw me at the
same time, and began to dive towards home. It was
a machine with a pilot and a gunner, carrying two
rapid fire guns, one facing the front, and one in the
rear that turned on a pivot, so it could be fired in any
direction.

“The gunner immediately opened fire on me and
my machine was hit, but I didn’t pay any attention
to that and kept going straight for him, until I got
within twenty-five or thirty metres of him. Then,
just as I was afraid of running into him, I fired four
or five shots, and swerved my machine to the right
to keep from having a collision.

“As I did that I saw the gunner fall back dead on
the pilot, his machine-gun fall from its position and
point straight up in the air, and the pilot fall to one
side of the machine as if he too were done for. The
machine itself first fell to one side, then dived verti-
cally towards the ground, with a lot of smoke com-
ing out of the rear. I circled around, and three or
four minutes later saw smoke coming up from the
ground just beyond the German trenches. I had
hoped that it would fall within our lines, as it is hard
to prove it has really been destroyed when they fall
within the German lines. Our post of observation
signalled seeing the machine fall, and the smoke. The
captain said he would propose me for the Medaille
Miltaire, but I don’t know whether I will get it or
not.

“Yesterday Thaw had a fine fight that ended by the

 

boche diving towards the ground. He was signalled
as leaving the air on being seriously hit, but being
able to get in his own lines.

“Am very busy just now, as the order has just
come for us to go to Verdun. Jim sent you a tele-
gram about my fight. Much love, Kiffin.”

Kiffin Rockwell, °11, was killed in an aerial com-
bat with a German two-manned aeroplane, on Sep-
tember 23, 1916, and fell just within the French lines
near Thann, Alsace, not far from where he had de-
stroyed his first enemy aeroplane. He had enlisted
in the Foreign Legion in August, 1914, and fought a
year with that corps before transferring to the avia-
tion service.

 

—<

The Roads to Lexington

The opening of the new hard surface road between
Lexington and Staunton on October tenth added a
very important link to the Lee Highway and will
prove a valuable asset to Lexington and a great con-
venience to visiting alumni. The road for the entire
thirty miles distance between Lexington and Staunton
is now hard surfaced all the way and the trip can be
made in an hour.

The new road being constructed between Lexing-
ton and Natural Bridge will be completed before
November first. It is now open and with the ex-
ception of about 100 yards can be traveled entirely on
hard surface road. ‘This road will connect with the
new link from Buchanan to Roanoke which is prac-
tically complete.

A dispatch from Lynchburg promises that the new
road between Lynchburg and Natural Bridge will be
opened by January first. This route will prove one
of great scenic beauty when completed. The part
between the river bridge above Snowden and Natural
Bridge has been finished for some time.

These three new routes into Lexington eliminate

the former practical inaccessibility of Lexington to
the automobile visitors.

Work is now in progress on the twenty-five mile
stretch of road between Roanoke and Rocky Mount,
Virginia. When that is finished there will be a com-
plete north and south route through Lexington from
Washington, D. C., to Atlanta, Georgia. The open-
ing of the Lynchburg road and the road from Char-
lottesville through Louisa to Richmond within the
near future will add two complete routes to Lexing-
ton from the east.

While work on the road from Lexington to Clifton
Forge over North Mountain will not be completed for
some time, it will ultimately give an opening from the
west through West Virginia.

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE ae

“Recollections and Letters of General Robert F.. Lee”

By WILLIAM TayLor THom, ’69

In accordance with your request I send you a few
words on the reprint of Captain R. E. Lee’s “Recol-
lections” of his father, General Robert E. Lee.

Last winter I learned that the “Recollections” was
out of print. I at once wrote to Messrs. Doubleday,
Page and Company, protesting against allowing a
book so valuable to the moral health of the country
to become inaccessible. After due consideration
Doubleday and Company decided to issue a reprint,
and the book will appear in the near future, at $5.00
a copy. In addition to the “Letters” already pub-
lished (and still on the plates), it will contain an ex-
cellent introduction by Gamaliel Bradford, the author
of “Tee, the American”, and some brief new ma-
terial by myself. This new material consists of the
official evidence from the files of the Office of the
Chief of Engineers, U. S. Army, illustrated by a
facsimile letter from General Lee, that his first as-
signment for service after leaving West Point was at
Cockspur Island, later Fort Pulaski, Savannah,
Georgia, and not at Hampton Roads, as given by all
the biographers after whom I have read, except Miss
Emily Mason and Madame Boissonnas; and, second,
of reproductions of the two little drawings in India
ink made by General Lee while on that assignment
and preserved ever since in the same family—almost
one hundred years.

That book ought to be in the hands and hearts -of
youth of the country from Maine to Texas and from
Alaska to Florida, and of the old as well. So far as
what is called “politics” is concerned, the book is a
closed record of political and military defeat, followed
by military surrender magnanimously granted by
General Grant and manfully accepted by General
Lee and by him unceasingly urged upon his people
in all loyalty; that record is history. General Lee,
the greatest warrior of our race, is also matter of
history. General Lee, the man, the citizen, the
spiritual leader, as friend, as husband, as father, as
lover of little children, the greatest soul of the modern
world and the most humble, is shown in his own let-
ters in this volume as nowhere else. We who had the
honor of being students under him at Washington
College saw and knew something of this beautiful
nature of the man; we felt (as the young do) much
more than we saw; the whole world, reading these
letters, may realize as we did under him that he lived
what he taught—righteousness, service to man,
service before God. It is the ardent hope of
the writer that the alumni of Washington and
Lee may buy this book for themselves and their
own homes; that they may buy copies of it for the

libraries of their country or city high schools and
present them in honor of General Lee himself or of
some follower of his, not to recall hate and strife but
to follow his example and precept of duty to his
fellow man through love for his fellow man. Some
of the alumni are already subscribing for extra copies
in order to place them in these libraries. He who
tries to walk in General Lee’s footsteps does well.

Wedding Bells

Thomas W. Gilliam, °19, is to be married on
November twenty-fifth to Miss Mary Truitt, daughter
of the Reverend G. W. Truitt of Dallas, Texas.
After the wedding they will reside in Lynchburg,
Virginia, where Mr. Gilliam is employed with the
Lynchburg National Bank. Mr. Gilliam is a member
of the S. A. E. Fraternity.

H. S. (Buck) Bryant, ’20, of basketball fame, is
to be married on October ninth to Miss Lucille
Lamar, daughter of Mr. and Mrs: George H. Lamar
of Rockville, Maryland and Washington, D. C. Miss
Lamar is a graduate of the class of 1924, Randolph-
Macon Woman’s College. Mr. and Mrs. Bryant will
reside in Lynchburg, Virginia, where Mr. Bryant is
employed with the Imperial Coal ‘Sales Company.

B. F. Fiery, °13, who is practicing law with the
firm of Baker, Hostetler and Sidlo, Cleveland, Ohio,
was married on September thirteenth to Miss Vir-
ginia Biechele of Worcester, Ohio.

Charles Saville, ’18, and Miss Priscilla Dodson
of Greensboro, North Carolina, were married on
August twelfth at Greensboro. They are now living
at Murat, Virginia.

The marriage of T. FE. Schneider, ’24 and Miss Vir-
ginia Elder Stanbery, took place on June eleventh at
Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, New York
City. Mr. and Mrs. Schneider have made their home
in Chicago.

Alumni will be interested to learn of the marriage
of Miss Sara White of Lexington on September
twentieth to Mr. Richard Coke Marshall of Chicago.

J. Crawford Rivers, ’16, and Miss Frederika
Lewis were married August twenty-sixth and are
now living in New York City.

 

Mr. Foxall Dangerfield, ’08, of Washington, D. C.,
with the Misses Dangerfield of Lexington, Kentucky,
and Lieutenant Christian, stopped over in Lexing-
ton long enough for Mr. Dangerfield to conduct his
friends over the campus and show them the tomb of

Lee.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE 27

ALUMNI IN POLITICS

Woodrum, ’08, Opposes McWane, ’13, for Congress

Clifton Woodrum, ’08, received the Democratic
nomination for Congress in the Sixth District of
Virginia, by 3000 majority. His opponent for the
nomination was S. S. Lambeth, 93, of Bedford, Vir-
ginia. Both candidates made a good fight. Fred Mc-
Wane, 713, of Lynchburg is the Republican nominee
for Congress and will oppose Mr. Woodrum in the
general election. 7

C, W. Mason, 711, On Supreme Court

C. W. Mason was appointed to fill a vacancy on the
Oklahoma Supreme Court bench two years ago by
Governor Walton. He entered the race this year and
was overwhelmingly nominated by the Democratic
Party.
Peery, 94, opposes Summers

George C. Peery, 94, of Tazewell, who was elected
to Congress from the Republican Ninth District
formerly represented by C. Bascom Slemp, is the
candidate of the Democratic Party for re-election,
opposing L. P. Summers, Republican, an alumnus of
‘08. Mr. Peery has established campaign head-
quarters at Bristol.

H, St. G. Tucker, ’75, for Congress

The Honorable Harry St. George Tucker, ’75, who
was elected to fill the unexpired term of Hon. H. D.
Flood from the Tenth Virginia District and who was
re-elected the following term, is again a candidate for
Congress on the Democratic ticket.

A.W. & L,. Governor in W. Va?

Judge Jake Fisher, 93, of Sutton, West Virginia,
is the Democratic nominee for Governor of his state.
Kelly, 93, and Woods, ’9A, For Supreme Bench

Lon H. Kelly, 93, also of Sutton, West Virginia,
and Judge J. M. Woods, ’93, of Martinsburg, are the
Democratic nominees for the West Virginia Supreme
Court of Appeals.

Goodykoontz, 92. A Senatorial Candidate
_ The Honorable Wells Goodykoontz, "92, of Wil-
liamson, West Virginia, was candidate for the

senatorial nomination in the Republican primary but
was defeated.

Gibson ’15, Convention Chairman

Philip P. Gibson, ’15, acted as permanent chairman
of the Democratic judicial convention in West Vir-
ginia in August.

Trustee Returned to Bench

Judge William A. Bell, 95, a member of the Board
of Trustees, has been re-elected to the Supreme Court
of Appeals of Louisiana, which sits at New Orleans,

 

| ALUMNI,

FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLES

McCOY’S

Special Service to

University Clubs and Fraternities

 

~McCRUMS”

As Always, the Gathering Place Of

STUDENTS AND FRIENDS
OF WASHINGTON AND LEE

OUnexcelled Fountain Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

LEXINGTON POOL
COMPANY |

“THE STUDENTS WINTER RESORT”

 

 

 

28

 

 

UNIVERSITY SUPPLY STORE, INC.

BOOKS, STATIONERY, SUPPLIES
AND
ATHLETIC GOODS
Attractive Book Ends for Office Use

 

 

 

 

(ollege & §chool

Printers & Stationers

Fine Stationery and Engraving
Office Equipment and Supplies
College Publications

Fraternity Publications

We would appreciate your inquiries which will
receive our prompt and careful attention

 

INDIAN PRESS

SURBER-ARUNDAIE ©OMPANY

PUBLISHERS: PRINTERS STATIONERS
CHARLOTTESVILLE --- VIRGINIA

|

 

|

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DRAWER 897
ii
(rai) | se cere | rar | Caer
q a) | se) | cose) | aes |e =
“25 (3) | pees) | 55) | [5] | Ces)
3) C50 | Cese) | ee) | Cen) | sad | C9) | ier:
rosa laren [ora ess
— Se .
SSS SS
4 pe Dy = ee
‘ Oat N Ee a
on “ oR ¥ wm
” i
ee ARN S>e

“Davis Alumni Club

Drawer 897

Lexington, Virginia
“My dear Mr. Kemp:

“T send herein my check for five dollars which I
would like to make more, but within a week after Mr.
Davis’ nomination, the alumni of Washington. and
Lee, V. M. L., and University of Virginia met at St.
Louis and organized a Davis for President Club and
they have been doing good work in Missouri. A
strong Davis for President Club has been organized
in Hannibal, a thriving city of between twenty-five
and thirty thousand. This all takes money and I am
helping out. A similar club is being organized in
Monroe County and all through the state.

“We have a hard job before us because this state
gave Harding a majority four years ago of one hun-
dred and fifty thousand, but our people are turning to
Davis rapidly. His speeches at Bunceton and other
places in the West have given these people to under-
stand that he is a man of marked ability, high in-
tegrity, and a statesman whose platform is the Con-
stitution of the United States. With this kind of a
man leading us we have great hopes.

“T send you a card filled out for membership in
your club and I regard it a great honor to be permitted
to aid in any way I can. I hope you will not hesitate
to write me.

Yours truly,
Grorce A. Manan”

 

 

 

G. G. HARRIS
Contractor for Plumbing and Heating

Room 13, Knowles Building
Residence Phone 1008
STAUNTON, VA.

Office Phone 444

Estimates furnished promptly on any size job anywhere.

Plumbing and Heating Contractor for New Chemistry Building

Box 60

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

FROM JOHN SCOTT, ’68

Perhaps you will wish to hear from an alumnus of
1266-68, harking back to ye olden time: I, John A.
Scott, Junior, was a student under the administration
of General Robert E. Lee. I was one of the three
Scott brothers who attended Washington College at
that time. ‘The other two attained eminence in after
life: William, in the gospel ministry, Stanhope in
the medical profession. My life during the slow
rolling years from 1868. till now has been like a
“Persian Dream”.

I have, after leaving Washington College, taught
school for several years, then I have been permitted
to preach the gospel as a: Presbyterian minister for
fifty years. Though it is now with me late in the
evening of life I am still active, serving as pastor an
excellent people. I have been blessed for more than
forty-four years with the finest wife that ever a man
had. We have had all these years a happy home life.
In comfort and safety we have raised, educated and
launched into successful life six children of whom
we are very proud. ‘’hus it may be seen that my life
has been a very happy one, even though I have not
lived on the hill tops of earthly greatness.

I greet any students of 1866-68 to whose eyes
these lines may come and who may recollect little
John Scott. I fear that not many of these survive.
I know that all my instructors of that time have long
since “passed over the river’: Harris, Preston,
White, Nelson, Joynes,—and, of course, a multitude
of the boys. My home is now Harmony, North
Carolina.

rr ee

Mr. F. Vaughan Pultz brought his family to Lex-
ington where they spent the summer a short distance
east of town. Mr. Pultz is head of the commercial
department of Greensboro, N. C. High School.

Mr. and Mrs. Thomas McP. Glasgow, 712, of
Charlotte, North Carolina, visited Mr. Frank T. Clas-
gow during August.

 

 

 

1924 MATRICULATION
(Continued from page 12)

Dr. F. Arthur Scratchley, 77, when I last heard
from him was enjoying life in Nice France, No. 7,
Jardin de Roi Albert 1st. There is the man or real
Wisdom! “Why should life all labor be?’ And so
Arthur, good friend and good liver, is proving that
he is wise.

Henry H. McCorkle, 96, great, fine looking man,
and as genial and whole-souled as he is handsome.
He practices law at No. 7 Pine Street, in the same
building with his brother Walter.

 

29

 

ROBEY’S BUS LINE
Prompt Service

Buena Vista—Lexington

Staunton—Lexington

WE MEET ALL GRAINS

Buena Vista Phone No. 3 Lexington. Phone No. 62

 

LHE RING-TUM PHI

The Best Paper for Washington and Lee
News is the Washington and Lee Paper

DON’T MISS THESE

Virginia, V. P. 1, West Virginia, Kentucky,
Citadel, and Florida Write-Ups

Our Whole Season is Ahead of Us
So Subscribe NOW

 

Subscription Blank

Manager, Ring-Tum Phi,
Lexington, Virginia.

Enclosed find check for $3.10 in payment for the
Ring-tum Phi for the year 1924-25,

Pe SR EO Ie ORR RN eS BOO BO. Oe Oe OO, eC a Ry ee ee re a a

 

 

Washington and Lee Alumni

Are Invited to Subscribe for the

‘Rockbridge County News

LEXINGTON, VA.

And Keep in Touch with Their College Town where
They Will Yet Find Much to Interest Them.

Only $1.00 a Year Strictly in Advance

 

 

30

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

COLLEGE FRIENDSHIPS AND BUSINESS RELATIONS
WILL GROW THROUGH THE PAGES OF THE
ALUMNI MAGAZINE |

Your friends among the alumni are owners of homes and auto-
mobiles.

They are buyers of investment securities, real estate, insurance,

and all household and wearing commodities.

_ They are Chairmen of School Boards, City and County build-

ing committees and public improvement commissions.

They are potential customers!

YOUR ADVERTISEMENT (Or that of your firm) PLACED
IN THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE WILL REACH THE ENTIRE
ALUMNI BODY IN AN INTIMATE AND FORCEFUL WAY.

Advertising rates upon application to the Alumni Secretary,
Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE MOTOR COMPANY, Inc.

Sales and Service
DODGE BROTHERS CARS

GARAGE

OPEN DAY AND NIGHT
Storage 50 and 7/5 Cents

 

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE : 31

Fitzgerald Flounoy, ’20, Receivers Honor at Oxford.

Fitzgerald Flournoy, A. B., ’20, Rhodes scholar at
Oxford University, England, was awarded the “Ox-
ford First’? and A. B. degree after a recent examina-
tion on two years in English literature at that in-
stitution. Mr. Flournoy is the second American
ever to win a first in English literature at Oxford
and the honor is considered a great achievement.

Mr. Flournoy is the son of Rev. and Mrs. W. C.
Flournoy of Bayview, Virginia. After graduating
at Cheriton High School, he received the United
Daughters of the Confederacy scholarship at Wash-
ington and Lee University. He was the founder of
the “Mink” and its first editor, and was awarded the
Rhodes scholarship from here. Before sailing for
Oxford, Mr. Flournoy delivered a number of ad-
dresses throughout the state which marked him an
orator of ability. :

 

 

 

STUART H. EDMONDS
Architect

Winchester, Virginia
ARCHITECT OF BETA HOUSE

 

 

HAMRIC & SMITH

JEWELERS

Washington and Lee Belts
Seal Rings and College Jewelry

Prompt Mail Service

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

C. M. LAMBERT, Pres. and Treas. S. K. LAMBERT, Sec’y

Lambert Manufacturing Co.

Contractors for Buildings

All Kinds WAYNESBORO, VA.
Building Material

MILLWORK CONTRACTORS

for the

NEW BETA HOUSE and
| GRAHAM DORMITORY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ATTENTION IS INVITED TO
THE ENLARGED FACILITIES
ASSOCIATED WITH THE NEW
FINCHLEY ESTABLISHMENT JIN
FIFTH AVENUE. CLOTHES AND
ACCESSORIES, DEVELOPED EX.
PRESSLY FOR COLLEGE MEN,
HAVE BEEN ARRANGED IN
LARGE AND UNCOMMON ASSORT-
MENTS ON A FLOOR GIVEN
OVER TO COLLEGE SERVICE.

CLOTHES |
HATS ~SSHOES
H-ABERDASHERY

[FIIN CHITITLIEAY

Fifth Avenue at 46" Street
NEW YORK

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

32 THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

 

 

-WEINBERG’S

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

W. & L. Swing

SHEET MUSIC AND RECORDS
Mailed Everywhere

SHEET MUSIC 35c---Plus Postage---RECORDS 75c

 

HOME COMING ALUMNI
See

GRAHAM & FATHER

For

Hats, Shoes and Socks

 

COBB'S PRESSING SHOP

Dry Cleaning

PRESSING ~ DYEING

 

Sandwiches Delivered Anywhere
to Students

Lexington Restaurant

A. LL. McCarthy Wins Prompt Recognition

The announcement has just been received that A.
L. McCarthy, honor graduate of the law class of
1921, has become a member of the firm of Twyman
and Scott at Miami, Florida.

Mr. Lewis Twyman and Mr. Paul Scott are both
Washington and Lee alumni. Early in 1921 they
wrote to the law school for the name of a capable and
energetic young law graduate. “Al’ McCarthy was
recommended. In three short years he proved that
his high recommendation was justified. The firm now
reads “Twyman, Scott and McCarthy”.

From Far-O ff Japan

Viscount Hidei Fukuoka, ’90, still retains his ac-

tive interest in Washington and Lee. We have just

|. received a card from him stating: “Received Alumni

Bulletin, July number, with much pleasure and
thanks.” Viscount Fukuoka is professor of in-
ternational law in Gendarmare Training College,
Tokyo.

J. Hampton Price, Law Class, 1924, announces the
opening of his law office in Leaksville, North Caro-
lina. He will maintain a branch office in Stoneville.
Rev. W. M. Alexander, ’84, Highly Honored

The twenty-fifth anniversary of Dr. Alexander as

pastor of the Prytania Street Presbyterian Church of

New Orleans, Louisiana, was celebrated by his ap-
preciative congregation on June eighth of this year.

Dr. Alexander graduated at Washington and Lee
in 1884, coming here from Beaumont, Texas. He
then went to the Union Seminary at Hampden-Sid-
ney, Virginia, where he received his B. D. in 188/.
Washington and Lee conferred the degree of D. D.
on him in 1897. He was elected moderator of the
General Assembly of the Presbyterian Church which
met at Newport News, Virginia, in May, 1915.

 

 

 

 

JOHN W., DAVIS
(Continued from page 10)

From this time his career is national and inter-
national in its scope and influence. As Solicitor Gen-
eral under the Wilson administration the office was
put upon a new efficiency basis. The law was en-
forced with an ability and logic which was publicly
commended by Chief Justice Taft.

As Ambassador to Great Britain John W. Davis 1s
ranked by the .English people as one of the ablest
representatives the United States has sent to the
Court of Saint James.

Without exaggeration it may be said that he pos-
sesses in an unusual degree the constructive genius of

Jefferson, the fearlessness and democratic qualities

of Andrew Jackson, the integrity of purpose of Cleve-
land and the legal training and vision of Woodrow
Wilson.

 

 

 

 

HOTEL KANAWHA - HOTEL HOLLEY

Charleston, West Virginia

THE LEADING HOTELS

Headquarters for University Men

 

 

 

34

 

THE PHOENIX HOTEL

LEXINGTON, KENTUCKY ~

A. 400 Room Hotel, Complete in Every Detail. _ Its
History inseparably linked with the growth of
Lexington from the beginning.

A visit to the Blue Grass is incomplete without a stop at the
PHOENIX HOTEL

CHARLES H. BERRYMAN
President

JOHN G. CRAMER
Manager

 

THE VIRGINIA HOTEL

LYNCHBURG, VA.

——— ee

European Fireproof

Excellent Cafes Coffee Shop

_W. and L. Headquarters

 

The Chas. H. Elliott Co.

The Largest College Engraving House in the World

Commencement Invitations Class Day Programs
Class Pins and Rings

Dance Programs and Invitations, Menus
Leather Dance Cases and Covers
Fraternity and Class Inserts for Annuals
Fraternity and Class Stationery
School Catalogs and Illustrations ,
Wedding Invitations, Calling Cards

Seventeenth Street and Lehigh Avenue,
Philadelphia

 

 

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

THE DAVIS ALUMNI CLUB
(Continued from page 11)
R. A. Baker, Florida; W. McElreath, Georgia; B. B.
Shively, Indiana; C. J. Faulkner, Illinois; W. H.

Puckett, Idaho; H. C. Tobey, Kansas; B. D. Smith,

Kentucky; H. T. Howard, Louisiana; J. T.. Drake,
Mississippi; H. R. Preston, Maryland; W. C. Gil-
more, Massachusetts; W. A. Coleman, Michigan; H..
L. Hall, Minnesota; Rees Turpin, Missouri; Colin
Neblett, New Mexico; Stuart Chevalier, New York;
E. C. Day, Montana; J. M. Bannister, Nebraska; EF.
C. Caffrey, New Jersey; EF. R. Preston, North Caro-
lina: W. A. McDonald, Ohio; C. W. Mason, Okla-
homa; A. B. Winfree, Oregon; L. R. Holmes,
Pennsylvania; W. O. Wilson, Rhode Island; H. W.
Pratt, South Carolina; R. L. Peck, Tennessee; J. L.
Young, ‘Texas; Herbert Fitzpatrick, Virginia; E. 5.
McCord, Washington; E. G. Smith, West Virginia,

and James Quarles, Winsconsin.

 

MARION, VIRGINIA, ALUMNI
George H. Miles, ’07, is engaged in the insurance
business, represents Swift and Company in this

part of the country, and is a member of the Electoral

Board of Smyth County.

J. P. Buchanan, ’06, is practicing law “here and
writing fiction. He is an ex-state senator and is
also a member of the Electoral Board of Smyth
County.

H. M. Collins, ’14 is at present Vice Consul to
Dublin, Ireland.

L. P. Collins, ’20, is practicing law in Marion.
He is Secretary of the Electoral Board, President of
the local Red Cross chapter, Commissioner of Ac-
counts, ex-Judge of Juvenile and, Domestic Rela-
tions Court, and ex-Commander of the American
Legion.

Vincent M. Miles, ’07, originally from Marion, is
now National Committeeman from Arkansas, and a

successful practitioner of law in Fort Smith.

L. B. Rouse, ’23, is practicing law with George
Warren at Bristol.

 

 

 

 

Specialists in College Printing

EVERY ORDER PROMPTLY AND ACCURATELY HANDLED

THE MICHIE COMPANY

Printers

Charlottesville, Va.

Service

Quality

Printers of The Alumni Magazine

Reasonable ‘Prices

 

 

 

 

 

a ae a a

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

35

Obituary

News of the death of Captain S. B. Avis, DL Bs
193, will be a great shock to his many friends among
fie alumni. Captain Avis was struck by lightning
while playing golf at Charleston West Virginia, on

ne eighth.
i, Avis was captain of the Washington and Lee

football t
Sidney crew for two years, 1892 and 198. He came
to Washington and Lee from Harrisonburg, Vir-
ginia, and was a member of the Alpha Tau Omega
Fraternity. He entered the practice of law at
Charleston, West Virginia, soon after graduation.
He was a prosecuting attorney for Kanawha County
for a number of years and elected to Congress in
1912. He attained great prominence as chief counsel
for the prosecution in the Mingo Coal Mine war

cases.

* OK OK

Basil Thompson, 712, died of pneumonia at his
home in New Orleans, Louisiana, on April 7, 1924.
xk x
Jesse B. Wadsworth, Junior, ’17, died at Birming-
ham, Alabama, Saturday, August twenty-third, fol-
lowing an operation. He was twenty-nine years of
age and had been successfully engaged in the lumber
business in Arkansas since graduation. While in Lex-
ington he was prominent in school affairs and made

xk

many friends among students and townspeople. He »

eam in 1892, and stroke on the Albert-.

served as an officer in the aviation corps in. France ~
and was slightly injured when his plane fell at the
front. His death followed an illness of several
weeks.

*

* Ok

J. L. Howard, LL. B., ’17, died at his home in
Floyd, Virginia, on August fourteenth, after a long

and severe illness.

* KOK

Miss Nannie Larrick died at Winchester, Virginia,
on June 8th, after an illness which lasted over a year.
She will be affectionately remembered by her friends
among the former college students to whom she was
a mother, counsellor and friend.

* ok Ok
J. Parry McCluer, ’70, of Buena Vista, Virgima.
J. Parry McCluer, student at Washington College
during the administration of General Lee, died at his
home in Buena Vista last month, at the age of
seventy-five.

Since the date of his graduation, Mr. McCluer had
been associated with the school system of Buena
Vista, as teacher, principal and superintendent of
schools. His ambition of many years was realized
a few months before his death, when the erection of
a large, modern public school building was com-
pleted. His lifelong servicé in the community had
endeared him to the people of Rockbridge County.

 

PF. L. BROETT

Building

PRUETT & COFFEY

W. W. COFFEY

Contractors

 

 

 

Builders of the
BETA THETA PI HOUSE and the LEE HIGHWAY GARAGE

Let Us Bid on Your Fraternity House

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

 

 

money.”

SOMETHING FOR YOUR MONEY

“Alumni are business men. They don’t like to pour money down a rat hole. Give them something for their

—John R. Tucker, 710.

 

VERBON E.

 

THE ALUMNI MAGAZINE

Five issues per school year; profusely illustrated; alumni news, alumni let-
ters, and a general review of college activity and college plans; size 9 x 12 inches.
Subscription, five issues starting October fifteenth, $2.00 per year.

THE ALUMNI DIRECTORY AND SERVICE RECORD

A catalog of every former student of the University with a brief biography
of each. A half-century review of Washington and Lee progress; World War
records of all alumni in the service; five hundred pages, bound in cloth, standard
book size, 6 x 9 inches, to be delivered on or before May 15, 1925, prepaid, $3.50.

MOUNTED PHOTOGRAPHS OF JOHN W. DAVIS

14 x 12 inches, mailed prepaid at $1.25; same size with less expensive
mounting, $1.00 each. (These are the same photographs that are being offered
elsewhere for $2.50.)

GROUP PICTURES OF THE CLARKSBURG ALUMNI
REUNION

Showing members of the classes of ’92 and ’95 at the banquet table, mounted,
size 8 x 10 inches, mailed prepaid at $3.00 each.

New edition of the

“RECOLLECTIONS AND LETTERS OF GENERAL
ROBERT E. LEE”

By Captain R. E. Lee, Junior, published by Doubleday, Page and Company,
handsomely bound with many new and valuable additions, including introduc-
tion by Gamaliel Bradford, at $5.00; postage 15 cents extra.

CALYX’S, in perfect condition:

1897 edition, $3.00 1915 edition, $2.00
1898 edition, 2.00 1916 edition, 2.00
1911 edition, 1.00 | 1919 edition, 2.00

| Money order or check payable to os ALUMNI, INCORPORATED, should ane a order.

KEMP, Secretary, Drawer 897, Lexington, Va.

 

 

 

}
i
1
\
i
ed

 

 

